5H/ 


o 


/    f,3 


/Wczsx 


'fcb 

THE 

AMRA   CHOLUIM   CHILLI 


DALLAN^FQRGAILL . 


THE  ORIGINAL  IRISH  AND  LITERAL  TRANSLATION. 


O'BEIRNE    CROWE 


DUBLIN : 
M'ULASHAN   AND    GILL,    50,  UPPER   SACKVILLE-STKEET, 

LONDON  :  WILLIAMS  &  NORGATE,  14,  HENRIETTA-ST.,  COVENT  GARDES  ; 
AND  20,  SOUTH  FREDERICK-STREET,  EDINBURGH. 


1871. 

W 


Price  7s.  6d. 


By  the  Editor. 

THE    CATHOLIC   UNIVERSITY 

AND 

fSfyz  f  risfr  language. 


Price  One  Shilling. 


To  be  had  of  J.  O'Daly,  9,  Anglesea-street,  Dublin. 


THE 

AMRA   CIIOLUIM   CHILLI 

OP 

D ALLAN   FORGAILL: 

NOW   PRINTED   FOR  THE  FIRST  TIME  FROM  TIIE   ORIGINAL  IRISH 
IN 

lebon  Net  huiorce, 

A    MS.  IX   TIIE   LIBRARY   OF    THE   ROYAL   IRISH   ACADEMY; 


A  LITERAL  TRANSLATION  AND  NOTES, 

A  GRAMMATICAL  ANALYSIS  OF  TIIE  TEXT, 

AND  COPIOUS  INDEXES. 


BY 

J.  O'BEIRNE  CROWE,  A.  B. ; 

GOLD    MEDALLIST    IN    ANCIENT    CLASSICS    AND    ANCIENT    LITERATURE 
GOLD  MEDALLIST  IN  THE  CELTIC  LANGUAGES  AND  LITERATURE  ; 

LATE  PROFESSOR  OF  CELTIC,  UUEEn's  COLLEGE,  GALWAY  ; 

AND    EXAMINER    IN     CELTIC    FOR    THE     QUEEN'S    UNIVERSITY 

IN   IRELAND. 


DUBLIN: 
MCGLASHAN   AND   GILL,    50,  UPPER   SACKVILLE-STHEET. 

LONDON  :  WILLTAMS  &  NORGATE,  14,  HENRIETTA-ST.,  COTENT  GARDEN  ; 
AND  20,  SOUTH  FREDERICK-STREET,  EDINBURGH. 

1871. 


BY    THE    EDITOR. 


SCeLO  NCI  CSCR50  (Tidings  of  the  Resurrection),  from  Lebor  na 
hUidre,  with  a  Literal  Translation.— For  the  Editor.     Dublin,  186.5. 

Dam  LiaC  (Duleek),  Its  Origin  and  Meaning — For  the  Editor. 
Dublin,  1866. 

The  paedl  piClOa  (Guardsman's  Cry)  of  St.  Patric,  and  its 
ancient  Preface;  from  the  Liber  Hymnorum,  T.C.D.,  with  a  Trans- 
lation anil  Notes. —  The  Journal  of  the  Royal  Historical  and  Archaeolo- 
gical Association  of  Ireland,  for  April,  1869. 

RELIGIOUS  BELIEFS  OF  TIIE  PAGAN  IRISH,  Essay  on,  lb. 

aioeo  ecac  maic  mairceoa  (The  destruction  of  eocho 

Mac  Maireda)  ;  from  Leh.  na  hUidre,  with  a  Translation  and  Notes. — 
The  Journal  of  the  Royal  Historical  and  Archaeological  Association  of 
Ireland,  for  January,  1870. 

CCUN  bO  PTCCUC  (The  Spoil  of  the  Cows  of  Froich)  ;  from  the 
Book  of  Leinster,  H.  2.  18.  T.  C.  D.,  with  a  Translation  and  Notes. — 
Proceedings  of  the  E.  I.  Academy  (Irish  MSS.  Scries),  187  1. 

SiabCtTC-CaRpaC  CON  CUlaiNO  (The  Demoniac  Chariot  of 
Cu  Chulaind)  ;  from  Leb.  na  hUidre,  with  a  Translation  and  Notes : 
and  an  appended  Essay  on  the  "  Ancient  Irish  Chariot." — The  Journal 
of  the  Royal  Historical  and  Archaeological  Association  of  Ireland,  for 
January,  1871. 


THE  EDITOR'S  INTRODUCTION. 


THE  occasion  of  the  composition  of  the  Arara,  or  Elegy 
of  Columb  Cille,  is  fully  stated  in  the  ancient  preface  ; 
it  is  therefore  unnecessary  to  repeat  what  is  there  already 
given.  In  order,  however,  that  the  reader  may  be  able 
to  carry  with  him  from  the  outset  a  fair  idea  of  both 
Author  and  Poem,  I  shall  here  quote  a  few  passages  from 
Colgan's  Life  of  St.  Dalian  (Acta  Sanctorum,  p.  203,  et 
seqq.). 

a  In  the  times  of  Aed,1  son  of  Ainmere,  monarch  of 
Ireland,  about  the  year  of  Christ  580,2  there  flourished  in 
the  same  kingdom  a  man  of  illustrious  ancestry,  by  name 
Eochaid,  and  by  cognomen  Dalian,  who  splendidly  adorned 
nobility  of  race  by  great  comeliness  of  virtues.  He 
was  born  in  a  district  of  Connacht  bordering  on  Ulster, 


The  following  notes  are  Colgan's  own  :  2  About  the  Year  of  Christ,  580.     King 

anything    I    arid    will    be    enclosed     in  Aed,  according  to  the  common  catalogue 

brackets,  and  marked  "  Ed."    Colgan  in-  of  the  kings  of  Ireland,  and  the  Annals  of 

troduces  his  notes  with  the  remark,  "  Be-  Donnegall  [Four  Masters],  began  to  reign 

cause  the  acts  of  this  saint  have  not  come  in  the  year  571,  or,  according  to  others, 

to  my  hands,   these   things   which   have  576,  and  he  reigned  27  years.     With  his 

presented  themselves  about  him  as  wrorthy  time  then,   and  so  in  the  year  580,  St. 

of  remark,  I  have  taken  chiefly  from  the  Dalian  flourished,  especially  since  he  lived 

history  of  the  Acts  of  the  Synod  of  Druimni  after  the  death  of  St.  Columb,  who  died, 

Ceta,  and  from  the  Life  of  St.  Columb."  according  to  Ussher,   in  the  year  597,  or 

1  In  the  times  of  Aed,  Monarch  of  Ire-  at  least  after  the  year  590.     [The  year 

land.    So  is  expressly  held  in  the  Preface  597  is  the  true  date.      See  Dr.  Reeves's 

to   the   Acts   of  the   aforesaid    synod  of  Introduction    to  his    Adamnan's    St.  Co- 

Druinim   Ceta,  and  in  the    Life  of  St.  lumba,  p.  lxxviii]. — Ed. 
Columb,  cap.  218. 


IV  INTRODUCTION. 

which  the  ancients  called  Masrbje,  and  Cathrige  Sleacht^ 
but  which  the  moderns  name  Teallach  Eathach. 

His  mother's  name  was  Forchella,4  from  whom  himself, 
too,  it  is  thought,  is  called  Dalian  Forgaill,5  or  Forcellius  ; 
and  his  father  was  Colla,6  son  of  Ere,  of  the  race  of  Colla 
surnamed  Uais,7  King  of  Ireland  ;  his  cousin-german  was 
Maidoc  of  Ferns,8  the  very  renowned  archbishop  of 
Leinster,  grandson  of  the  same  Ere  from  his  son  Sedna, 
or  Sedonius.9 

Colgan,  after  speaking  of  the  great  learning  of  Eochaid, 
and  explaining  the  word  Dalian  (the  blind),  an  epithet 
which  he  received  from  his  having,  through  the  severity 
of  Ins  studies,  lost  the  use  of  his  eyes,  thus  proceeds  : — 

"  He  wrote  in  the  native  speech  and  in  ancient  style 
several  little  works,  which  cannot  in  Inter  ages  be  easily 
penetrated  by  many  otherwise  well- versed  in  the  old  native 
idiom  and  antiquity;  and  hence  they  are  illustrated  by  our 
more  learned  antiquaries  with  scattered  commentaries, 
and  as  rare  monuments  of  our  ancient  language  and  anti- 
quity, it  is  customary  to  lecture  on  them,  and  expound 
them  in  the  schools  of  antiquaries  of  our  nation. 

"  Among  these  is  one  panegyric  or  poem,  now  and 

'■"•  Mnsrífjc,  Sfc.     Thus  it  is  held  in  the  Genealogical  Menologium  says   that   this 

aforesaid  Preface.  Ere  was,  from  his  sou  Feredaeh,  grandson 

4  His  mother's  name  was  Forchella.  Thus  of   King   Colla.       But  the   Life    of    St. 

is  it  held  in  the  same  place,    aud  is  it  Maedoc,   and  others,  say  that   the   same 

gathered    from    Blessed    Marianus    Gor-  Ere    was    the    grandfather   of  both    St. 

manus,    and    from    the    author    of    the  Dalian  and  St.   Maedoc;  but  the  grand- 

Martyrology  of  Tamlaeht,  who  calls  him  father  of  St.  Maedoc  was  not  the  grand- 

the  son  of  Forgall.     But  his  father  was  son  of   King    Colla,    but    many    degrees 

not  called  Forgall  or  Forchella,  but  Colla,  removed   from  him.      .     .     .     And   this 

.     .     .     whence   that   was   his   mother's  opinion  pleases  me  the  more,  because  it  is 

name.  more  likely  that  those  who  lived  at  the 

6  From  whom  himself,   it  is  thought,  is  same   time   were    the   same    distance    of 

called  Forgaill,  or  For  cheilitis.  So  the  same  degrees  from  the  common  trunk,  than  that 

Preface  testifies.  one  of  them  should  be  many  more. 

6  But  his  father  weis   Colla,  son  of  Ere.  6  [Here   Colgan   refers   to   his   Life   of 

So  tin'  same  Preface,  and  the  Life  of  St.  Maedoc,  whose  day  is  the  31st  January]. 

Columb,  cap.  2,  18,  and  the  Genealogical  — Ed. 

[um,  cap.  12.  9  Grandson  of  the  same  Ere  from  his  son 

■  Son  of  Ere,  of  the  race  <f  Colla  Uais,  Se<?>ia.     So  the  Irish  Life  of  St.  Maedoc, 

Thus  it  is  held  in  the  same  place,  but  the  chapter  72,  ócc. 


INTRODUCTION.  v 

always  held  in  great  esteem,  on  the  praises  of  St.  Columb, 
and  entitled  Amra  Choluim  Chille,10  that  is,  "  The  Praises  of 
Columb  of  the  Churches."  The  occasion  of  the  composition 
of  this  little  work  is  recorded  io  be  as  follows  :  After  St. 
Columb  had  come  from  Britain  to  Ireland  to  settle  certain 
disputes  which  had  arisen  between  the  monarch  of  Ireland, 
Aed,  his  relative,  and  the  chiefs  of  Dal  Riata  and  Leinster, 
and  other  subjects  ;  and  after  he  had  attended  before  the 
same  king,  and  the  nobles  of  the  kingdom,  in  a  certain 
synod  of  Druimm  Ceta,  assembled  for  this  purpose  in  the 
region  of  Cianachta,11  while  the  assembly  was  being  broken 
up,  and  all  things  were  succeeding  according  to  the  wishes 
of  St.  Columba,  with  die  hope  of  general  peace  and  concord, 
St.  Dalian  comes  to  St.  Columb,  and  offers  him  a  certain 
poem,  which  he  had  composed  in  his  praise.  But  while  that 
poem  was  being  partly  read,  and  the  holy  man  was  strongly 
feeling  certain  sudden  emotions  of  vain  complacency, 
he  was  admonished  by  St.  Baithene,  his  disciple,  then 
standing  near,  that  a  great  troop  of  evil  demons  appeared 
scoffing  above  his  head,  and  when  the  holy  man  with 
astonishment  saw  the  troop,  he  was  struck  with  com- 
punction of  heart,  and  immediately  he  forbids  the  praises 
written  by  St.  Dalian  to  be  further  produced  or  published  : 
adding  that  no  one  [should  be  praised]  in  life,  which  he 
might  badly  end  ;  that  he  alone  who  had  run  well  in  the 
stadium,  and  had  ended  his  race  successfully,  should  be 
praised  after  his  death.     And  when  Dalian  could  by  no 

10  Amra    Choluim    Chille,   that   is,     the  n  In  the  region  of  Cianachta.     Druimm 

Praises  of  Columb  of  the  Churches.    I  have  Ceta  is  a  place  in  the  Diocese  and  County 

in  my  possession  one  copy  of  this  work,  of  Derry,  at  the  River  Eoe,  to-day  and 

beautifully  written,  but,  putting-  aside  a  always    venerable   especially  on   account 

few  scattered  commentaries  which  it  con-  of  the  many  pilgrimages,  and  the  public 

tains,  it  is  penetrable  to  a  few  only  to-day,  Theophory  which,  on  the  festival  of  All 

and  these  most  learned.      [I  shall  try  to  Saints,  in  memory  of  the  aforesaid  synod 

make  the  present  translation  rank  me  as  there  celebrated,  is  there  annually  made, 

one  of  the  successors,  though  longo  inter-  with  an  immense  concourse  from  all  the 

vallo,  of  Colgau's  " peritissimi."'] — Ed.  neighbouring  districts. 


vi  INTRODUCTION. 

contrivance  obtain  the  publication  of  the  praises  he  had 
written,  he  insisted  that  he  might  be  allowed  to  follow  out 
his  [St.  Columb's]  life,  in  case  that  it  should  be  happily 
ended,  with  praises  after  his  death  :  and  this  he  accordingly 
obtained. 

"  The  Saint  accordingly,  having  returned  to  Britain, 
died  after  some  years,  and  immediately  as  soon  as  he  died, 
St.  Dalian  received  by  angelic  ministry  the  announcement 
of  his  death,  and  composed  that  very  learned  little  work 
which  we  have  mentioned :  and  when  he  had  finished  this, 
he  was  regifted  with  the13  immediately-lost  light  of  his  eyes, 
and  further  received  a  promise  that  the  person,  who  would 
recite  these  praises  from  memory  and  from  mind,  would 
close  his  life  with  a  happy  end."  Of  the  other  works  of 
Dalian,  Colgan  says  : — 

"  He  composed,  also,  another  poem13  for  the  death  and 
funeral  praise  of  Senan,  Bishop  of  Inis  Cathaig  (Scattery 
Island),  which,  on  account  of  antiqueness  of  style  and 
antique  gracefulness,  is  among  those  fond  of  antiquity 
always  in  great  esteem  :  and  on  account  of  the  grace  of 
preservation  from  blindness  and  other  special  indulgences, 
which  are  believed  to  be  granted  by  God  to  him  who 
recites  it  from  memory,  it  is  among  devout  persons  held 
in  great  veneration. 

He  composed  also  a  third  little  work  in  praise  of  St. 
Conall,14  surnained  Coel,  Abbat  of  Inis  Coel,15  in  Tir 
Connail   (now  Iniskeel  in   Donegall).      Of  him  also  he 


12  [The  meaning  is  that  1  lallan,  to  whom  Amra  in  II.  2.  16  :  T.  C.  D.  •  and  another 

Columba  allowed  the  nséofhia  eyeswhile  in  H.  3.  17:  T.  C.  D.,  and  fragments  in 

making   the  poem,  lost  that  use  imme-  various  manuscripts]. — Ed. 

diately  on  finishing   it,   but  Mas  imme-  "  In  praise  of  St.  Conall.     This  is  rc- 

diately  regifted  with  it].— Ed.  corded    in    the    aforesaid    Preface,    but 

u  Also  another  poem.    I  have  in  my  pos-  whether  it  is  still  extant   or  not  is  un- 

session  this  little  work,  which  can  hardly  known  to  me. 

be  taken  in  to-day  without  illustrations  of  15  Conall,   Abbatt  of  Inis  Coel.     This 

antiquaries.      [There   is   a   copy    of   this  chureh  is  in  au  island,  surrounded  by  the 


INTRODUCTION.  vn 

begged  strenuously  that,  by  the  intervention  of  his  prayers 
and  merits,  he  might  deserve  to  enjoy  the  honour  of  a 
tomb  the  same  with  himself  (that  is,  to  be  buried  with  him), 
and  this,  granted  by  the  Divine  goodness,  he  obtained." 

The  above  extracts,  regarding  Dalian  and  his  poetry, 
will  be  quite  sufficient.  I  shall  now  proceed  to  give  my 
reader  the  plan  of  publication  I  intend  to  adopt. 

The  work  will  be  finished  in  two  Parts.  Part  I.  (the 
present)  contains  the  Ancient  Preface ;  the  Exordium,  or 
Prelude  to  the  Amra  and  the  Amra  proper  with  their 
ancient  commentaries,  and  a  literal  translation  of  the  whole. 
Part  II.  will  contain  topographical,  biographical,  and  his- 
torical notes  ;  a  critical  and  grammatical  analysis  of  every 
word  in  the  text,  and  copious  Indexes.  And  as  the 
Lebor  Brec's™  Preface  to  the  Amra  supplies  several  im- 
portant records  omitted  in  that  of  Lebor  na  hUidre,  this 
preface  also  will  be  given,  together  with  the  marginal  notes 
and  secondary  glosses  of  the  present  copy,  and  with  literal 
translations.  The  poetic  characteristics  of  our  poem  will 
be  examined  in  an  Appendix,  which  will  also  say  a  word 
or  two  on  Irish  poetry  in  general.  The  text,  to  distinguish 
it  from  the  commentaries,  is  given  in  large  letters,  and 
exactly  as  it  stands  in  the  original,  and  on  the  whole  I 
have  strong  hopes  that  my  Amra,  when  completed,  will 
receive  the  approbation  of  my  spiritual  friends,  St.  Columb 
and  St.  Dalian  above,  as  well  as  that  of  my  literary  friends 
here  below. 

Dublin,  August,  1871.  J.  O'B.  C. 


ocean,  in  the  district  of  Tirconnaill,  which  ^  A  defect  of  one  page  in  Lebor  na 
is  called  Bugeilaigh,  and  in  the  diocese  of  hUidre  is  supplied  from  the  Lebor  Brec, 
Raphoe,  and  in  this  church  St.  Conall  is  which,  though  only  a  fragment,  fortunate- 
venerated  on  the  1 2th  May.  [St.  Dalian's  ly  preserves  the  last  leaf  of  the  Amra,  and 
day  is  the  29th  January].— Ed.  the  greater  portion  of  the  preface.]— Ed. 


rcempocut. 


LOC  oo'no  pem[p]ocul-pa  cecup  Opmmm  Cera,  ap  ip 
annooponaD  in  món-Dáil  Opomma  Ceca  :  in  alio  locó 
immopo,  Doponao  conp  mo  immuin  o  pein  immach,  uc  pope 
appapec.  In  ampip  Qeoae  meic  Gnmepech  DopigneD  : 
peppo — Oallán  popgaill  t>o  lTlappaigib  TTlaige  Slecu  : 
cucaic — ap  poccain  píchio  oó  péin,  ~|  alíip  pep  pe.  Upi 
cucaice  uepo  ap  a  came  Colum  Cille  a  hGlbain  in 
hG'pirio  in  can  pin  .1.  do  púaplucuo  Scannláin  ÍTIóip,  meic 
Cino  páelao,  pig  Oppaipe,  ppnp  in  oeocaio  íp  pacaigep, 
"]  do  apcuD  inna  pileo  in  hGpino  (ap  pobap  inD  innapba 
ap  a  cpomoacc,  a]\  nobiD  .;rr;r.  1  cléip  cac  olloman,  1 
apcu.  1  cléip  cac  anpaio)  :  -|  Do  piouguD  ecep  pipu 
hG'penn,  ~\  Ctlban  ím  Dal  Ríaca.  ~]  íp  eo  ocbepae  no  con 
acca  Colum  Cille  G'pinn  in  ran  pin,  áp  nobiD  bpéic  Dap 
a  puibb  :  -]  ip  eo  pocepa  pein,  ap  pogell  pemi  pein  ic 
Dul  capip  na  pégbao  GpinD  o  pein  immac,  Dicenp  : 


Pil  puiln  glaip, 
Pégbap  Gpinn  Dap  a  liaip  : 
No  con  ácebá  íapmochá 
Pipu  G'penD  nác  a  mmna. 

CocuocaiD  íapam  Colunn  Cille  ip  inn  aipecc  ocup 
cor.éppacc  pocaioe  pemi  Do  páelci  ppip.  ITlao  lap 
pencap  ele,  immopo,  ni  eppacc  nee  pemi  ace  Oommnall 
mac  in  pig,  ap  acpubaipe  in  pi  co  ná  heippeD  nee  pemi  : 
ap  popicip  ani  imm  0  cane,  -|  ni  p'ba  maic  leip  a 
ciccain,  ap  ni  n'bo  all  leip  apcuo  na  pileo,  no  cuaplucuo 


FORESPEECH. 


THE  place  for  this  forespeech,  firstly,  is  Druimm  Ceta, 
for  it  is  in  it  was  made  the  great  meeting  of  Druimm 
Ceta :  in  a  different  place,  however,  was  made  the  body  of 
the  hymn  from  that  forth,  as  appears  after.  In  the  time  of 
Aed,  son  of  Anmere,  it  was  made  :  author — Dalian  Forgaill 
of  the  Masraige  of  Mao;  Slecht :  cause — for  reaching  of 
heaven  for  himself  and  for  others  through  it.  Now  there 
are  three  causes  for  which  Colum  Cille  came  from  Alba 
to  Eriu  that  time — namely,  for  the  releasing  of  Scanlann 
Mór,  son  of  Cend  Faelad,  king  of  the  Osrarians,  with  whom 
he  went  in  pledgeship :  and  for  the  staying  of  the 
poets  in  Eriu  (for  they  were  in  banishment  on  account  of 
their  burdensomeness,  for  there  used  to  be  thirty  in  the 
company  of  each  Ollom,  and  fifteen  in  the  company  of  eaoh 
Anrad) :  and  for  pacification  between  the  men  of  Eriu  and 
of  Alba  about  Dal  Riata.  And  it  is  it  they  say,  that  Colum 
Cille  by  no  means  saw  Eriu  that  time,  for  there  used  to 
be  a  bandage  over  his  eyes  ;  and  it  is  it  that  caused  that, 
because  he  promised  before  that  at  going  past  it,  that  he 
would  not  view  Eriu  from  that  forth,  saying  : — 

There  is  a  grey  eye 
That  will  view  Eriu  backwards  : 
By  no  means  will  it  see  afterwards 
The  men  of  Eriu  or  its  women. 

Colum  Cille  then  came  to  the  assembly,  and  several 
rose  up  before  him  for  welcome  to  him.  If  it  is  according 
to  another  tradition,  however,  there  rose  not  up  one  before 
him  but  Domnall,  the  king's  son,  for  the  king  said  that 
there  should  not  rise  up  one  before  him ;  for  he  knew  that 
about  which  he  had  come,  and  his  coming  was  not  thought 


10  rcenipocut. 

Scanntaín.  ConiD  anD  pem  pobennac  Colum  Cille  mm 
Oomnall,  ap  pobo  aipmeca  conmci  pein.  ^o  p'bu  olc 
lap  in  pigam  a  bennacliaD,  ap  pobo  lep-mac  Di  é  :  50 
]10FeP5a15  in  clépec  ppia,  con  epbaipc-pi  ppip  111  clépec  : 
"  Romóp  in  coppaigecc  pop  a  ecu."  "  lp  cec  Duicpiu," 
ap  in  clépec,  "  bíc  pop  coppaigecc  pop  a  cái  :  íp  cec 
Duicpiu,"  ap  in  clépec,  "  bit  pop  coppai^ecc."  ConiD  anD 
pem  popoao-pi  1  cuipp,  co  pagaib  a  hinailc  pop  acipiuguo 
in  clépi^,  co  popaio  pioe  hi  cuipp  ele  :  co  pilec  na  oá 
cuipp  pm  o  pein  llle  in  Opuim  Checa,  uc  aln  Dicunc. 


I~áncacap  íap  pem  na  piliD  íp  inn  aipecc  -\  Diian  molca 
léo  Dó  -]  aiDbpi  amm  in  cliiinl  pin  ;  ocup  ba  céol  oepp- 
cai^cec  lie,  uc  Colmán  mac  Cénéne  di;cic: 

Linn  oc  heolaib,  uin^i  o[c]  Dipnaib, 
Cpora  bann  áecec  oc  cpochaib  pigna, 
TC15  ic  Oomnall,  DopD  ic  aiobpi, 
QoanD  oc  cainnill,  cole  oc  mo  clioilc-pe. 

-]  in  óen[p]ecc  Do^nícíp  in  ceól  pm.  Cocámc  míaD  men- 
man  Do'n  clepeocli,  co  p'bo  lán  inc  áep  húap  a  clnnD  ó 
Demnaib,  co  popailpigeo  do  báicin  pem,  -]  co  pocliaipij; 
piDe  in  clépec,  -|  co  cue  in  clépec  íap  pein  a  chenD  po 
clioim,  "i  con  Depna  acpige,  ~|  co  cuap^aib  lap  pein  a  clienD 
ap  a  clioim,  -]  co  póemiD  ceo  mop  Di  a  clnnD,  -\  co  popcáilic 
ap  na  Demna  piap  in  céo  pin.  Oa  céc  Dec  Dan  lin  na 
pileD,  uc  Di;ac  quiDam  : — 


pecc  Do  TTIael  Choba  na  cliap 
lc  lilbup  clnnD  Upácca  cíap, 
Oa  céc  Dec  pileD  poppuaip 
17ep  inn  lbap  aníap-chúam. 
CoinnmeD  ceópam  blíaDanm  binD 
Oopac  Dóib  TTláel  Coba  in  ong  : 
THepaiD  co  let  bpaclia  bam 
Oo  chenéol  oelboa  Oemr'nii, 


F011ESPEECH.  1 1 

well  of  by  him,  for  the  staying  of  the  poets,  or  the 
releasing  of  Scannlan  was  not  pleasing  to  him.  So  that 
it  is  then  Columb  Cille  blessed  this  Domnall,  because 
he  was  reverent  to  that  extent.  So  that  his  blessing  was 
thought  ill  of  by  the  queen,  for  he  was  a  stepson  to  her  :  so 
that  the  cleric  grew  angry  towards  her,  so  that  she  said  to 
the  cleric  :  "  Very  great  is  the  craneing  on  which  thou  art." 
"  Thou  hast  leave,"  says  the  cleric,  "  to  be  on  a  craneing 
on  which  thou  art :  thou  hast  leave,"  says  the  cleric,  "  to 
be  on  a  craneing."  So  that  it  is  then  she  was  turned 
into  a  crane,  so  that  her  handmaid  took  to  reproaching 
the  cleric,  so  that  she  turned  into  another  crane :  so  that 
those  two  cranes  are  from  that  hither  in  Druim  Ceta,  as 
some  say. 

The  poets  after  that  came  into  the  assembly,  and  a 
poem  of  praising  with  them  for  him,  and  aidbsi  (chorus) 
is  the  name  of  that  music  ;  and  a  surpassing  music  was  it, 
as  Colman  Mac  Lenene  said  : — 

Blackbirds  beside  swans,  ounces  beside  masses, 
Forms  of  peasant  women  beside  forms  of  queens, 
Kings  beside  Domnall,  a  murmur  beside  a  chorus, 
A  taper  beside  a  candle  [is]  a  sword  beside  my  sword. 

And  together  they  used  to  make  that  music.  Dignity  of 
mind  came  for  the  cleric,  so  that  the  sky  above  his  head 
was  full  from  demons,  so  that  this  was  manifested  to 
Baithene  ;  and  that  he  rebuked  the  cleric,  and  that  the 
cleric  after  that  brought  his  head  under  cover,  and  that 
he  did  penance,  and  that  he  raised  after  that  his  head 
from  its  cover,  and  that  a  great  fog  sprang  from  his 
head,  and  that  the  demons  scattered  from  it  before  that 
fog.  And  twelve  hundred  was  the  number  of  the  poets 
as  a  certain  one  said  :  — 

As  Mael  Choba  of  the.  companies  was  once 
At  Ibar  Chind  Trachta  in  the  west : 
Twelve  hundred  poets — he  them  found 
By  the  Yew  in  the  north-west, 
Refection  of  three  melodious  years 
Mael  Coba  the  chief  gave  to  them  : 
"It  shall  live  to  the  day  of  pale  judgment 
For  the  well-formed  race  of  Deman. 


12  raempocul. 

Co  popopc  Colum  Cille  iap  pein  na  pileou  -j  con  epbaipn 
ppi  liQeo  : 

Copmac  cam  bine  neoic, 

Nua  molca,  cpina  peoiu: 

lp  eo  polegup  por-cpaeo — 

Ceinmaip  molciap,  maipj  áepnap,  Q'eo! 

Cam  in  pug  ap  a  paep-fpjai^uib  pugchiap  ; 

TTlaip5  in  iac  ecnaipe  aipciap! 

Qpao  cloc  :  cam  in  péini  piaoaic  bi : 

Oopúapcec  maim  molcaiDi. 


Oopónao  coinomeo  na  pileo  lap  pern  po  G'pmo  -j 
pooi^baic  lap  pern  a  cliapa  .1.  jc^im.  1  cléip  mo  Olloman 
-]  pen.  i  cléip  ínoánpaio. 

lp  lap  pin  bái  Colum  Cille  l  cuincio  Scant)láin  pop 
Cteo,  1  m  capoao  Do;  con  epbaipe  pium  Dan  ppi  G'eo,  íp 
é  nongebao  a  appa  mime  imm  íapmepgi  ce  bé  bale  nober, 
"|  pocomallaD  amlaiD.  Colmán  mace  Com^elláin,  immopo, 
íp  é  puc  mm  bpeir  erep  pipu  G'peno  i  Qlban,  -|  Do  Dal 
l^iaca  Do  piDe  ;  "]  íp  pip  Dopi^ni  Colum  Cille  mm  bctiDe 
in  ran  popo  lenam  bee  in  Colrnán,  uc  Oi;cic  : 


Q  cliubnp  con  :  a  anim  $lan  ; 
Qpo  poic  Dine  :  Dale  poic  Dam. 

-j  apbepc  Culum  Cille  íp  é  Do^énaO  píru^uD  ecep 
pipu  G'peno  "|  Qlban:  -\  íp  i  bper  puc,  "a  peer 
-]  a  plójeo  la  pipu  G'peno  oo^pep,"  ap  íp  [p]U>5eo  la 
ponnaib  oo^pép  :  "a  cam  "|  a  cobac  la  pipu  Qlban  ;"  no, 
"am  muip-coblac  nammá  la  pipu  Qlban:  ó  pein  immac, 
immopo,  la  pipu  hGpenn." 

■Cánic  íapam  Oallan,  apo-ollom  hG'penn  in  ran  pin 
Do  acallaim  Cholu[i]m  Chilli,  coniD  ano  po^ab  in  pem- 
pocul  Do  :  i  m  peléic  Colum  Cille  Do  a  oénam  pec  a- 
pem,  con  oepnao  in  ampip  a  cipcecca,  ap  apbepr  ppi 


FOEESPEECn.  13 

So  that  Columb  Cille  after  that  stayed  the  poets,  and  that 
he  said  to  Aed  : — 

Cormac  well  broke  battle, 

New  [his]  praisings,  withered  [his]  jewels  : 

It  is  it  I  have  read  wheel-poetry — 

A  blessing  that  one  is  praised,  woe  that  one  is  satirized, 

Aed  ! 
Fair  the  juice  which  from  its  free  lawns  is  sucked  : 
Woe.  the  absent  land  that  is  satirized  ! 
Renowned  ladder  :  fair  the  course  they  living  drive  ; 
The  treasures  of  praisers  remain. 

The  refection  of  the  poets  was  after  that  made  over  Erin, 
and  their  companies  were  diminished  after  that — namely 
[only]  twenty-four  in  the  company  of  the  Ollom,  and 
twelve  in  the  company  of  the  Anrad. 

It  is  after  that  Columb  Cille  was  making  the  demand 
of  Scandlan  upon  Aed,  and  he  was  not  given  to  him  ;  so 
that  he  said  accordingly  to  Aed,  that  it  is  he  [Scandlan]  who 
would  get  his  shoes  about  him  [Columb]  about  midnight, 
whatever  place  he  should  be,  and  it  was  so  fulfilled.  Now, 
Colman,  son  of  Comgellan,  it  is  he  who  gave  the  judgment 
between  the  men  of  Ériu  and  of  Alba,  and  he  was  of  Dal 
Riata  ;  and  it  is  with  him  Columb  Cille  made  the  embrace 
the  time  the  Colman  was  a  little  infant,  as  he  said  : — 

0  tree  of  hounds  :  0  pure  soul ! 

This  is  a  kiss  to  thee  ;  deal  thou  a  kiss  to  me. 

And  Columb  Cille  said,  it  is  he  who  would  make  pacification 
between  the  men  of  Eriu  and  of  Alba  :  and  it  is  the  judg- 
ment he  gave,  "  Their  expedition  and  their  hosting  with 
the  men  of  Eriu  always,"  for  there  is  hosting  with  territo- 
ries always  :  "  their  tribute  and  their  exaction  with  the 
men  of  Alba  ;"  or,  "  their  sea-gathering  only  with  the  men 
of  Alba,  but  from  that  forth  with  the  men  of  Eriu." 

Then  Dalian,  chief  Ollom  of  Eriu  that  time,  came  to 
converse  with  Columb  Cille,  so  that  it  is  then  he  recited 
the  forespeech  for  him  :  and  Columb  Cille  did  not  allow 
him  the  making  of  it  beyond  that,  that  he  should  make  it 


14  rcempocul, 

mapb  bap  chubaiD  :  1    ip   Do   cenDnaib  pocpiall  Dalian 

a  Diiain  Do  Dénam.  Dopaipn^epc   rpá  Colum  Cille  Do 

Dalian   mmappa    1  copce  in   caiman   ap    in   molaD-pa, 

1    ni    pa^aib,    ace  nem   Do    péin    -|    r»o  cec     oén    non- 

jjebaD     cac    Dia,   -|  DopucébaD    euep    cliéill    -|    pojup, 
uu  cfuioam  Di;ric  : — 


Qmpa  Column — cac  Dia 

Cep  é  noD^eba  co  pollan, 
l?opia  in  pinD-[p]laic  fia, 

T?oip  Dia  1)0  Dalian. 

Upi  comapca,  immopo,  Dopac  Colum  Cille  do  in  ran 
Do^énao  .i.  mapcac  eic  alaio  noinnippeD  dó  écpecc 
Coluim  Chilli,  1  in  cécna  poccul  nopáiDpeD  in  mapcac 
commaD  lie  copac  in  molca,  ."]  a  puile  do  lécuD  dó  céin 
nobec  ic  a  Dénam.  lc  Gc  péne  Dan  ím  TTliDe  DoponaD 
in  molaD-pa,  uc  Ulael  Suchain  Di;cic  :  aDpér,  immopo, 
pepDomnach,  comapba  Colu[i]m  Chilli,  ip  iap  Slige 
Qppail  pocanaD,  ó  rá  Dun  nan  CtipbeD  cop  in  cpoip  ic 
U15  Lomma[i]n.  Qnamain  ecep  Da  mn  inpo  .1.  nin  1 
coppuc  in  molcai  "|  nin  in  a  DepuiD  .1.  "  Ni  Dip  [p]céoil" 
-|  "  Nimúam."  No  ip  ^obul  Di  .1.  pecne  De-chubaiD  .1. 
Da  pon  no  a  cpi  do  cinnpeecul  o  aén  piD  beop  .1.  DiaiD 
inDiaiD,  1  pon  o  piD  ip  écpamail  in  a  DÍaD  piDe. 


Dia,  Dia,  "|c.  Ip  aipi  emnap  m  céc  pocal  ap  abela, 
no  ap  lainm  in  molca,  uc  epc,  Deup,  Deup  meup,  -jc. 
Ip  é,  immopo,  a  ainm  pein  lap  in  ^óeoel  "  aceppuc 
in  giicn  ^náf,"  ap  bici  epi  quale  copmaile  labapcha  ic 
pileDaib  na  J)oeDei^5e  ■'■  aacqipuc  in  gucn  glác,  -] 
ainpi-moD,  1  aoiabul,  -]  ip  í  po  aicne  cecai  Díb.  Ip  é 
lnc  aiceppuc  quiDem  emnaD  óen-pocuil  in  oen-iniuD  ip  inD 
punn  1  cen  lenamain  Dé  ó  pein  immac.  Ip  é,  immopo, 
ainpe-moD  ainni|'ein  o  ttiud  inunD  .1.  inc  óen-pocul  do  pao 


FORESPEECH.  1 5 

in  the  time  of  his  death  ;  for  he  said,  to  one  dead  it  was 
fitting :  and  it  is  of  headlets  [capitula]  Dalian  proceeded 
to  make  his  poem.  Now  Columb  Cille  promised  to  Dalian 
the  gifts  and  products  of  the  earth  for  this  praising,  and 
he  did  not  take  them,  but  heaven  for  himself  and  for  every 
one  who  would  recite  it  each  day,  and  would  understand  it 
between  sense  and  sound,  as  a  certain  one  said: 

Columb's  Amra — every  day 

Whoever  will  recite  it  completely, 
Will  reach  the  good  bright  kingdom 

O  C5  O 

Which  God  granted  to  Dalian. 


Now  three  signs  Columb  Cille  gave  him  the  time  he 
should  make  it — namely,  a  rider  of  a  speckled  steed  would 
announce  to  him  the  death  of  Columb  Cille,  and  the  first 
word  the  rider  would  utter,  that  it  was  to  be  the  beginning 
of  the  praising,  and  that  his  eyes  would  be  allowed  to  him, 
while  he  should  be  at  the  making  of  it.  At  Feni's  Ford 
again  in  Mide  [Meath]  this  praising  was  made,  as  Mael 
Suthain  said  :  Ferdomnach,  however,  successor  of  Columb 
Cille,  declares  it  is  behind  Assal's  Way  it  was  chanted,  from 
where  the  Fort  of  the  Balustrades  is  to  the  Cross  at  Lom- 
man's  House.  Anamain  between  two  Ashes  this  ;  that  is, 
Ash  in  the  beginning  of  the  praising,  and  Ash  in  its 
ending  ;  namely,  Ni  dis  \s\ceoil  and  Nimuain.  Or  it  is  for  k 
of  two,  that  is,  bi-rh}nning  narration  ;  that  is,  to  begin 
two  sounds  or  three  from  one  tree  still  ;  that  is,  one  after 
another;  and  a  sound  from  a  tree  which  is  different  after  that. 

"  God,  God,"  &c.  It  is  why  he  doubles  the  first  word — 
on  account  of  the  rapidity  and  avidity  of  the  praising,  as 
is,  Deits,  Deus  meus,  &c.  But  the  name  of  that  with  the 
Goedel  is  ''  return  to  a  usual  sound  ;"  for  there  be  three 
similar  standards  of  expression  with  the  poets  of  the  Goedel; 
that  is,  re-return  to  a  usual  sound,  and  renarration  mode, 
and  reduplication,  and  this  is  the  mark  of  each  of  them. 
The  "return,"  indeed,  is  a  doubling  of  one  word  in  one 
place  in  the  round,  without  adhering  to  it  from  that  forth. 
The  "renarration  mode,"  again,  is  renarrating  from  a  like 
mode  ;  that  is,  the  one  word — to  say  it  frequently  in  the 


l  G  rcempocnl. 

commenic     ip    inD    punD    con    ecapcaioecc    pocul    ele 
ecappu,  uc  epc  hoc  .1. 

T?ic  in  picbe  piclap  ma^, 

Pic  in  Dam  cpí  coécaic  glono  : 
l?ic  in  jilla  jcjupmap,  jano, 
popacaib  Cú  Oínipc  Donn. 

Ip  6,  immopo,  aDiabul  .1.  apilliuD  .1.  Do-emnaD,  uc 
epc  hoc,  .1. 

Ctgup,  á^up,  iap  céin  céin, 

óic  1  péin  pein,  ní  rír:  pic  : 
Qmal  các  các,  co  bpác  bpác, 

ln  cec  cpác  cpác,  ciD  pcíc  pcíc. 

Oa  epnail  Díb  po  íp  íno  pempocul-po — aceppuc  in 
^ucn  gnác,  ocup  ainnpi-moD :  ainpe-moo,  immopo,  nammá 
po^abap  1  cupp  mD  ímmum. 

oia,  oia— oopposus  reia  uias  inn  a 

^NUTIS  .1.  aca^up  Dia,  no  guDim   Oia,  píapiu  chíap  in 
a  gnúip,  no  in  ran,  no  inD  inDbaiD  ciap. 

CUtU  URia  NG1U.— popcceo,  no  popmolaD  pil 
hie  :  1  con  na  bicip  gnee  popcceDa,  poip  in  oicneo  ~\ 
DocneD  1  cennacpop,  uc  cpjiDam  Dicunc.  61D  Dan  neic  .1. 
gum,  uc  Dicicup  : — 

l?ob  é  do  lecc  1  papce 

lap  Do  néic  péol  pipaicce  : 

l?iiccap  1  capp  inDiaiD  pill 

Do   [pjpacc,  a  pcáil,  Di  á  coem-chill. 

.1.  Gmal  céic  cappac  pepDa  cpé  car,  co  pop   amlaiD 
Dec  m'  annn-pea  cpia  cacn  [o]emna  Docum  nime. 

CULU  .i.  popcceD  punD  inconDiliD,  ap  ip  "cul"  in  pocul 
gnácac,  ace  poruill  in  pili  .u.  punD  Do  UnaD  na 
piliDecca  ;  no,  Do  Duaicni^uD  na  pocul  cpia  Digbail  ocup 
cpia  cópmach  ocup  cpia  incumpguguD  Do  Dénam  incib. 
-]  acác  cpí  gnee  paip  .1.  DicneD  "|  DocneD  ocup  cennacpop. 


FORESPEECH.  17 

round,  with  an  intervention  of  other  words  between  them, 
as  is  this  : 

Came  the  foam  [which]  the  plain  filters, 
Came  the  ox  through  fifty  warriors  ; 

[So]  came  the  keen,  active  lad, 
[Whom]  brown  Cu  Dinisc  left. 

But  "  reduplication"  is,  namely,  "  refolding ;"  that  is,  "  bi- 
geminating,"  as  is  this  : 

I  ask,  I  ask,  after  long,  long, 

To  be  in  pain,  pain,  not  peace,  peace  : 

Like  each,  each,  till  judgment,  judgment, 
In  each  time,  time,  though  fatigue,  fatigue. 

Two  divisions  of  these  in  this  forespeech  :  "  return  to  a 
usual  sound,"  and  "  renarration-mode  ;"  but  ''  renarration- 
mode"  only  in  the  body  of  the  hymn. 

God,  God — I  have  asked  him  ere  I  come  to  his  face. 
.1.  I  implore  of  God,  or  I  ask  of  God  ere  I  come  to  his  face, 
or  the  time,  or  the  period  I  come. 

For  chariots  through  battle. — £<  Obscuration,"  or 
"  superabundance,"  here  ;  and  that  appearances  of ''obscura- 
tion "  might  not  exist,  the  "  be-heading,"  and  "  bi-headiiigy' 
and  "  head-changing  "  have  been  established,  as  some  per- 
sons say.     "  Neit"  also  means,  that  is,  wound,  as  is  said  : 

May  thy  monument  at  dawn-breeze  be 
After  thy  death-wound  a  sail  ever  to  be  driven  ; 
Borne  may  [she]  be  in  a  chariot  after  a  horse 
Thy  wife,  0  hero,  to  her  beautiful  church. 

That  is  :  as  a  serrated  chariot  goes  through  battle,  may  it  be 
so  my  soul  shall  go  through  the  battle  of  demons  to  heaven. 

"  Obscuration"  here  in  a  special  way,  for  cul  is  the 
usual  word  ;  but  the  poet  added  .iu  here  for  filling  of  the 
poetry  ;  or  for  making  the  words  hard  to  be  known  through 
diminution  and  through  increase  and  through  immutation 
being  made  in  them.  And  there  are  three  forms  on  it,  [on 
"obscuration,"]  that  is,  "be-heading,"  and  "bi-heading,"  and 
"head-changing."  The  "be-heading"  is — to  cut  its  own  head 


18  Rempocul. 

lp  é  in  DicneD  a  chenD  Do  $aic  oo'nD  [p]ocul  -|  cen  ni 
ele  in  a  inaD,  uc  Oipcic  poeca  : — 

Oál  poDalup — móp  in  baep — 
lp  ino  apup  huap  Opuimm  : 
Q  mmo  Chomoiu,  a  pi  pú  pá, 
6ui  biu  ba  bép  ni  ciap. 

"  l?ú  pá" — ípé  in  Depmepece  anD  pem  :  ap  íp  "pun  pan" 
poDlecc.  lp  e,  uepo,  rri  OocneD  Da  cenD  paip  .1.  a  cenn 
fém  -\  cenD  ele  ;  -\  commao  é  a  Dilep  in  liccip  Dé- 
Denac  inD  [p]ocuil  do  emnao,  amal  Dognerea  "  benn" 
Do'nDi  ap  "  ben,"  ur  oicicup  :  — 

Lainn  pip  néie  paDb  copcpa  ; 
Téic  Daij  Oe  oemm  ni  cepcoa  ; 
poppuim  cenD  Do  cpunD  occga  ; 
^nac  cenn  1  cpub  Chon  eccga. 

CoinmaD  hi  péc  nobéc  in  Depmepece  hie  .1.  a  chenD  péin 
pop  inD  [p]ip  iic  1  cenn  neic  ele  in  a  láim  ;  ace  cena  íp 
in  eplabpa  pe^caip  inna  haipci  "|  ni  hi  péc.  CommaD  hé 
in  Depmeipecc  hie  "  ni  cepcoa,"  ap  poeuilleo  "Da"  popp 
in  pocul  cepc  :  ace  cena  incpeccap  pein,  ap  ni  "  oeicneo" 
íapn  Dilpi  copmac  pillaibi,  ace  ip  "  popmolaD  pileD  ;"  1 
íp  é  po  a  oeipmepecc  piDe  : — 

Céim  o  locaib  Do  linn  ól 
Co  ^locaib  clú  naD  ^ano  on  : 
Ueee  pec  eocu  1  cinD  cpice — 
TTlaic  bechu  ím  bice  annón. 

CaDe  Din  in  oecneo  ip  inD  punD  acpubpummap.  "  Cainn 
pip  -|c.  Nin.  "  <Cenn"  Do  oénam  Do'nD  ni  ap"cen"  .1.  cene, 
ap  Dai 5  50  po[p]pecpaD  do  "  chenn"  :  ocup  DécneD  íapn 
Dilpi  pein.  lp  amlaiD  po,  immopo,  Depmepeccaigcip  na 
hepnaili-pea  in  alnp  libpip  .1.  Oicneo  amal  acá  "  Dochupin" 
.1.  cellaD  a  chenD  oé  .1.  'n  "  et,"  ap  ip  "  Docuip[i]nec"  pobui 
oe  ppiup.  lp  e,  immopo,  in  DeicneD,  uc  epc  •'maelan"  .1. 
"  án"  in  cenD  ele  :  ip  é  in  cenOnacpop,  uc  epc  "  penchap," 
ap  ip  "penchap"  pobui  De  ppuip.  lpe  pomepechao  nan 
Oepmepece-pea  .1.  ni  DicneD  íapn  Dilpi  Oi^bail  pillaibi  *]  ni 
oicneo  lapno  ino  ap[p]aDe  cipeD  apile.  Ctpaill  anD  Dan,  ip 


EORESPEECH.  19 

off  the  word  and  without  anything  else  in  its  place,  as  some 
one  said  : 

A  meeting  I  appointed — great  the  folly — 

In  the  stand  above  Druimm  : 
0  my  Lord,  0  king  of  noble  mysteries! 

.     &c. 

"  Ru  ra" — it  is  the  example  there  ;  for  it  is  "  run  ran"  that 
was  lawful.  But  the  "  bi-heading"  is — two  heads  on  it,  that 
is,  its  own  head  and  another  head  ;  and  that  its  propriety 
may  be  the  doubling  of  the  last  letter  of  the  word,  as  if 
benn  were  made  of  what  is  ben,  as  is  said  : 

The  desire  of  a  man  of  battle  [is]  purple  spoil  ; 
God's  fire  comes   gloomy,  not  rare  ; 
A  strong  stroke  [is]  from  a  shaft  of  eight  hands  ; 
Usual  a  head  in  the  fist  of  Cu  of  deadliness. 

So  that  it  be  in  matter  the  example  may  be  here,  that  is, 
his  own  head  on  that  man,  and  the  head  of  another  one  in 
his  hand  ;  but  yet  it  is  in  speech  these  proprieties  are 
viewed,  and  not  in  matter.  So  that  it  be  the  example  here, 
"  ni  tercda,"  for  "  da"  was  added  to  the  proper  word  ;  but 
yet  that  is  criticized,  for  the  increase  of  a  syllable  is  not 
"  bi-heading"  according  to  propriety,  but  it  is  a  "  super- 
abundance of  poets  ;"  and  this  is  the  example  of  that  : 

Advance  from  lakes  for  a  net  of  twists, 
With  celebrities — a  fame  not  narrow  this : 

Coming  past  horses  in  the  end  of  a  territory — 
Good  the  life  in  which  there  is  plentiness. 

What,  then,  is  the  "  bi-heading"  in  the  round  we  have 
spoken.  "  Lainn  fir,  &c."  Not  difficult.  To  make  tenn  of 
that  which  is  ten,  that  is,  fire,  with  a  view  that  it  may 
answer  to  cenn,  and  that  is  "bi-heading"  according  to 
propriety.  The  following,  however,  is  the  way  these 
divisions  are  exemplified  in  other  books,  that  is,  "  be- 
heading" as  is  dochusin,  that  is,  cutting  its  head  off  it ; 
that  is,  the  "et,"  for  it  is  docuis\t\net  it  was  formerly. 
But  the  "  bi-heading"  is  as  is  maelan,  that  is,  an  is  the 
other  head  :  the  "  headlet-changing"  is  as  is  senchas,  for  it 
is  fenchas  it  was  formerly.  The  following  is  the  criticism 
of  these  examples,  that  is,  diminution  of  a  syllable  is  not 


20  rcempocul. 

íac  na  pocail  ^náca  mom  "  Doc u pin,"  -|  "maelán,''  "| 
"  penchap."  lapn  appacaib  Din  aca  Deipmepecca  punc  : 
cqi  popcap  lac  na  pocail  ^nácca  acu  pit>e  "  Docuipinec"  "| 
"  mael"  ~\  "  pencap.''  Ip  é,  immopo,  m  cennacpop  inDiii 
"  penchap"  Do  Denam  Do'nD  [p]ocul  ap  "penchap  :"  ap  íp 
é  in  gnácac  ínoiu  "penchap,"  uc  Dicicup  : — 


pégpaic  pilm  páil  ipop 
pencap  co  pei£  la  pep^op  : 
TTlaD  iap  mal  cac  maige  immac, 
Ooppóipce  Dome  Oubcac. 

"  penacap  :"  íp  é  in  Depmepecc  ann  pein  .p.  ap  .p.  anD. 
lp  cumma  Do^nicep  1  copuc  ~|  in  DepiuD  pocuil  in  DicneD 
"1  in  cennacpop  :  in  DepiuD,  immopo,  pocuil  namma  ap 
jjnác  DÓcneD  Do  Dénam.  Ni  aiccem  Dan  ic  pileoaib  na 
^aeoeilje  amm  páin  pop  Dí^bail  liccpi  -|  pillabi 
amal  acchiam  pop  copmac  liccpi  i  pillabi  .1.  "  DócneD" 
copmac  liccpi  -j  "  popmolaD"  copmac  pillabi. 

01a  Mime   Nimr?eil5e  il  Lurs  in  615- 
chiaR  ar?  mmch  01  a  meiu  .1.  ap  péiao 

pípinm  acbep  "  Oía  nime,"  no  di  á  pip  con  nac  Oia  ap 
iDal.  "  Nimpeilge  íl  liiji^  nan  Demna  oc  an  Dencap  éjsjem 
ap  méc  am  muice." 


01a  map  mo  aNaccoL  oe  mu  r  teiNO- 

UlOe  OIU-OGRCN  Oe'R.i.lTlóp-OíaDomm'anaccul 
ap  immeD  in  ceneD,  bale  1  reil^icip  Dépa  co  cian  ic  o 
Dcicpin  .1.  ap  pic  mup  immeo,  uc  oicicup  : 

TTlúp  immeD  call  ip  ino  pecc, 
Cop  biiaiD  ip  bpíachap  lán-chepc  : 
Dii  bale,  dú  oúchaig  lac, 
Cul  comec,  ip  oil  cappac. 

Dtu-bepc  Dan  noinen  compoppicum  ó  Lacin  ocup  Scocic. 


FORESPEECH.  21 

"  beheading"  according  to  propriety,  and  anything  else  is 
not  "  be-heading"  according  to  the  antiquity.  Another 
thing  in  the  case  too— the  usual  words  at  present  are — 
dochusin  and  maelan,  and  senchas.  According  to  the 
ancients  then  examples  are  here  ;  for  the  usual  words  with 
them  were  docuisinet,  and  mael,  and  fencas.  But  the 
"head-changing"  at  present  is  to  make  fencas  of  the  word 
which  is  senchas  ;  for  the  usual  at  present  is  senchas,  as 
is  said : 

The  poets  of  Fal  have  viewed  here 

The  Fenchas  with  illumination  by  Fergus  : 

If  it  is  in  reference  to  the  poet  of  every  plain  forth— 

Dubthach  has  surpassed  men. 

"  Fenachas  :"  the  example  there  is  ./.  for  .s.  It  is  alike  in 
the  beginning  or  in  the  end  of  a  word  the  "  be-heading"  and 
the  "head-changing"  are  made  ;  but  in  the  end  only  of  a 
word  it  is  usual  to  make  the  "  bi-heading."  We  do  not  see 
again  with  the  poets  of  the  Goedelic  a  different  name  for 
diminution  of  a  letter  and  of  a  syllable,  as  we  see  for  in- 
crease of  a  letter  and  of  a  syllable,  that  is,  "  bi-heading"  in- 
crease of  a  letter,  and  "  superabundance"  increase  of  a 
syllable. 

The  God  of  Heaven — may  He  not  allow  me  into 
the  host  in  which  there  is  crying  on  account  of  smoke 
from  its  greatness  .1.  For  the  manifestation  of  truth 
he  says,  "God  of  heaven,"  or  from  his  knowledge  that  he 
is  not  a  God  who  is  an  idol.  "  May  he  not  allow  me  into 
the  host  of  the  demons,  with  whom  crying  is  made  on 
account  of  the  greatness  of  their  smoke." 

Great  God  my  protection  from  the  fiery  ram- 
fart  of  long  eyes  of  tears  !  .i. — Great  God  for  my 
protection  against  the  fence  of  the  fire,  a  place  in  which 
are  shed  tears  for  a  long  time  a-looking  on  it.  That  is,  for 
mur  means  fence  (immed),  as  is  said  : 

"Mur"  [means]  fence  beyond  in  the  law. 

"  Coph,"  victory,  and  a  full-right  word. 

"  Du"  [means]  place,  "  du"  inheritance  with  thee. 

"  Cul,"  protection,  and  "cul,"  chariot. 

'■  Diudcrc"    accordingly    is    a    noun    compounded  from 


22  uerhpocul. 

Oiu  .1.  incian  :  Depc  .1.  pull,  ur  Dipnc  gpanni  injen  Cop- 
maic  pju  pinD  : 

pil  Dune, 
ftipm  [b]aD  buoe  lem  Diu-Depc, 
Q|i  a  cpibpinD  in  bir  ule, 

Q  meicc  TTIaipe,  cid  Diubepc! 

01a  piRGN,  piRocus,  cLuings  mo  oo 

NU'CUll    OO    NlTTl-1'at    net   .1.    Oia    pípóen,    no 

Oía  na  pípén.  '' pip-ocup"  .1.  quia  ere  Oeup  ub'que  ec 
ppope  omnibup  inuocaricibup  eum.  lTIo  oo-mimll  .1.  mo 
Do  nucull  .1.  nuall  mo  cuipp  -|  m'emma  lap  nelaib  co  iach 
nime  :  no,  núall  pecaplaice  "]  nu-pinaD.  No,  "mo  00- 
nuaill"  .1.  mo  Do  nuall  .1.  mo  nuall  Do  .1.  do  Oia.  biD  Dan 
"  iarh"  mino  ~]  "  lac"  pepanD,  uc  Dicicup  : 


pó  ainm  Do  mairip  Do  miaD, 
pi  ainm  d'uIc  íp  o'anjiiao  : 
Cl'n  pip  íp  ni  popup  pa  no, 
Vacli  minD  1  iach  pepano. 


FORESPEECH.  23 

Latin  and  Scotic.  "  Diu,"  that  is,  long;  "  derc,"  that 
is,  eye :  as  Granne,  daughter  of  Cormac,  said  to  Find  : 

There  is  a  person, 
For  a  long  look  at  whom  I  should  feel  grateful, 
For  whom  I  should  give  the  whole  world, 
0  Son  of  Mary,  what  a  privation  ! 

God  righteous,   truly   near,   wno  hears   my  sad 

WAIL  TO  THE  HEAVEN-LAND    OF  CLOUDS  .1. — RighteOUS  God, 

or  God  of  the  righteous.  "  Truly  near,"  that  is,  because 
God  is  everywhere,  and  near  to  all  who  invoke  him. 
"  Mo  do  nuaill,"  that  is,  my  two  wails  ;  that  is,  the  wail  of 
my  body  and  of  my  soul  behind  clouds  to  the  land  of 
heaven  :  or,  the  wail  of  the  Old  Law  and  of  the  New 
Testament.  Or,  "  mo  do  nuaill,"  that  is,  "  my  to  him  wail," 
that  is,  my  wail  to  him,  that  is,  to  God.  "lath,"  again, 
means  a  diadem,  and  "  iath,"  a  territory,  as  is  said  : 

"  Fo"  [is]  a  name  for  good  and  for  honor, 
"  Fi"  [is]  a  name  for  bad  and  for  disobedience  : 
"  An"  [means]  true,  and  it  is  no  weak  knowledge, 
"  lath"  [is]  a  diadem,  and  "  iath"  is  a  territory. 


amraa  cholumi  chilli 


[CAPITULUM  I.] 

DE  MCESTITIA    OMNIUM    RERUM   IN    MORTE  COLUMBAE,  VEL  DE 
EXITU  COLUMBAE. 

i.  jsii  oi[s]  sceoil  O'uae  Neill,  .1.  Ni  cen 

■  '  peel,  no  ni  oip  in  peel,  no  ni  oip  in  peel  o'  Uib 
NéiU  Colum  Cille  oo  éc  :  no,  "  o'Uae  Néill"  .1.  00  innui 
Néill.  No,  ni  oi[p]  pcéoil  .1.  ní  oúce  pcéoil  .1.  ni  ba  peel 
00  ouiD  .1.  clocai^picep. 

2.  ni  uchrau  oeN-maise  more-mail?^ 

TnOr?-OeiCTT1NOl[p]OLaiN5,  .1.  N100  oen  mai^op 
uch,  no  ap  íaccao,  ace  cócíp  campip.  lp  maipg  mop 
eprecc  Column  Cille.  "  Oeilm"  .1.  ip  mop  in  epich  ~\  in 
cump[c]u5uo  came  ip  inn  Gpino  la  hepcecc  Coluim  Cilli 
.1.  ap  pic  oeilm  .1.  copano,  no  rpopc,  nc  oicicup  : 


Qcá  ben  ip  cfp, 

Ni  a  pap  a  hai[n]m, 
TTIaioio  epi  a  oeilm, 

Qmal  cloic  a  cailm. 

3.  rcis  ue'  asNeio  colum  ccn  beic,  cgn 
chill. 

l?ip  náo  pip, 
O'  picpa  co  cec  a  pi$  : 
Cóic  bap  IU5U  inn  [o]ia  pin 
lnná  pinnia  pino  pencaio  ? 

.1.  lp  oi[p]olain5  oún  in  peel  ip  ino  pé  in  ai]  néeep  oún 
Colum  Cille  00  épcecc.     ''  Cen  bie"  .1.  ceno  a  beiú  mi 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLDM  CILLE. 


[CHAPTER  I.] 

OF   THE    SORROW    OF    ALL   THINGS   IN   THE   DEATH    OF 
COLUMBA,    OR    OF   HIS   DEPARTURE. 

1.    IVrOT   A    TRLFLE    OF   A    STORY    ABOUT  THE  DESCENDANT 

ll  of  Niall.  .1.  Not  without  a  story,  or  not  trifling  the 
story,  or  a  poor  thing  is  the  story  for  the  descendants  of 
Niall— Colum  Cille  to  die  :  or,  "  d'Uae  Neill,"  that  is, 
for  the  posterity  of  Niall.  Or  "  ni  di[s]  sceoil,"  that  is,  not  a 
folly  of  a  story,  that  is,  it  is  not  a  story  about  a  fool,  that 
is,  it  shall  be  celebrated. 

2.  Single  plains  sigh  not  great  woe,  great 
ringing  unbearable,  .i.  It  is  not  for  one  plain  that  sighing 
is,  or  that  shouting  is,  but  for  all  plains.  A  great  woe  is 
the  death  of  Colum  Cille.  "  Deilm,"  that  is,  great  is  the 
trembling  and  the  commotion  that  have  come  into  Eriu 
with  the  death  of  Colum  Cille  :  for  "  deilm"  means  that 
is,  sound,  or  noise,  as  is  said  : 

There  is  a  woman  in  the  land, 

I  do  not  tell  her  name  : 
Her  ringing  bursts  out  of  her 

Like  a  stone  from  a  sling. 

3.  "When  the  tale  relates  Colum  without  being, 
without  church. 

A  tale  which  is  not  true  : 
When  he  will  have  come  to  the  house  of  his  king, 
Of  what  will  he  be  less  that  day, 
Than  Finnia  fair,  the  sage  ? 

That  is,  the  tale  is  unbearable  to  us  in  the  time  in  which 
it  is  related  to  us  that  Colum  Cille  is  dead.     "  Cen  bith," 

D 


2G  aniRa  choluim  chilli. 

bir,  no  ím  beraiD :  (tcen  chill"  .1.  cen  a  beic  1  all.  Pip  .1. 
peel,  uc  epe  in  lmmacallaim  in  Da  UhuapaD  .1.  ail  pig 
pipi  péoi  :  no,  ím  bpecaib  NemeD,  uc  Dicicup — ni  oil 
t)áimi  pipi  .1.  ní  pil  aippiciuD  Daimi  Do  rcelaib  oca.  No, 
combao  eD  baD  choip  ano — cen  Díl  Dami  pipi  .1.  cen  oil 
óegiDecua  in  pcelaigi  :  ap  bio  pipi  .1.  pcelaigi,  uc  Dipcic 
Copppe  mac  Gram  íp  inD  aip  Dopigni  do  6pep  mac 
6laDan  : 


Cen  cole  ap  cpáib  cepníne, 
Cen  ^epu  pepbba  pop  an  appa  aripni  ; 
Cen  aDba  pip  poDpnba  Dipopci, 
Cen  Dil  Dami  pepi  :  pob  pen  bpippe. 

1  ip  í  pein  céc  áep  DopónaD  m  6'jnnn. 

4.  COl  INOia  OU1  DO?  .1.  C01  .1.  cpomoDo: 
"  inDia"  [.1.]  innippep  .1.  cia  cpuc  innippep  Din  De  ?  No, 
"cói"  .1.  conap  .1.  cia  conaip  innippep  Dui  De  ?  No,  pobo 
Dui  cec  Dune  in  a  conDel^-pom  co  InDia. 


5.  SCGO  NGT2G.  .1.  Sceo  *]  céo  -|  neo  cpi  comae- 
comail  JJoefcelje  -1-  cl°  Nepa  mac  TTlopamD,  no  Nepa 
mac  pmo-chuill  a  Sioib — ni  coempao  a  apnéip  :  no  pobo 
Din  piDe  in  acpé^aD  Choluim  Chilli. 

e.  in  paiuh  oc  oeoe  sion  suoioeti, 

IS  NU  NCXD  mail?.  .1.  Ip  nu  acbach  in  paiuh  Oé 
popuiDepcap  pop  Deip  in  Sioin  nemoai :  no,  Dan  in  pair 
Oé  noaipneDeD  in  puoiguD  biap  in  lac  Sion  :  no,  in  paic 
popuoepcap  pop  Deip  Oé  in  Sion. 

7.  NI  memUhaT?  cCNO.  .1.  Nímapchap  ocunD  ; 
no,  ni  pil  mópac  ocuno  hi  pecc-pa  ;  no,  ni  pil  nech  Di  ap 
mópaD  ocunD. 

s.  ni  c6s  aNiTia  an  sui,  arc  ooncon- 

Dl'QUh.  .1.  Ni  pil  ocunD  nech  leppaigep,  ,io  poillpi^ep 
apn  anmam  1  pecc-pa.  ap  acpullái  úain  m  iarh  cam  ap 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  27 

that  is,  without  his  being  in  the  world,  or  in  life  ;  "  cen 
chill,"  that  is,  without  his  being  in  a  church.  "  Kis,"  that 
is,  a  story,  as  is  in  the  Dialogue  of  the  Two  Sages  :  "  A 
king's  delight  is  smooth  stories  ;"  or,  in  the  Bretha  Nemed, 
as  is  said,  "  Not  a  sufficiency  of  a  company's  stories,"  that 
is,  he  has  not  a  company's  delighting  of  stories.  Or  that 
it  may  be  it  that  were  right  in  it — "  Cen  dil  dami  risi" 
(without  a  sufficiency  for  a  company's  story-teller),  that  is, 
without  a  sufficiency  for  the  entertainment  of  the  story- 
teller :  for  "  risi"  means,  that  is,  a  story-teller,  as  Corpre 
mac  Etain  said  in  the  satire  he  made  for  Bress,  son  of 
Elada  : 

Without  fruit  on  branch  of  cemine, 
Without  a  cow's  milk  on  which  a  calf  may  grow, 
Without  a  man's  residence  may  he  wander  lightless; 
Without  a  sufficiency  for  a  company's  story-teller  : 
Be  it  the  prosperity  of  Bress  ! 
And  this  was  the  first  satire  that  was  made  in  Eriu. 

4.  HOW   WILL    A    SIMFLE    ONE    TELL    OF  HIM  ?    .1.  "  Coi," 

that  is,  how:  "  india,"  [that  is],  will  tell:  that  is,  what 
manner  will  a  simple  one  tell  of  him  ?  Or,  "  coi,"  that  is, 
way :  that  is,  what  way  will  a  simple  one  tell  of  him  ? 
Or,  every  person  was  a  simpleton  in  comparison  with  him 
to  India. 

5.  Even  nera.  .i.  Sceo  and  ceo,  and  neo,  (are)  three  con- 
junctions of  Goedelic.  That  is,  even  Nera,  son  of  Morand, 
or  Nera,  son  of  Find-choll,  from  the  Side — he  would  not 
master  the  relation  of  it ;  or,  he  was  a  simpleton  in  com- 
parison of  Colum  Cille. 

6.  The  prophet  of  God,  who  by  sion  took  his 
seat,  it  is  late  he  lived  not.  .1.  It  is  lately  died  the 
prophet  of  God,  who  took  his  seat  on  the  right  of  the 
heavenly  Sion  :  or  again,  the  prophet  of  God  who  used  to 
relate  the  sitting  which  will  be  in  the  land  of  Sion  :  or 
the  prophet  who  took  his  seat  on  the  right  of  God  in  Sion. 

7.  There  is  no  magnifying  with  us.  .i.  He  is  not 
magnified  with  us,  or  there  is  not  a  magnifying  with  us 
this  time,  or  there  is  not  any  for  our  magnifying  with  us. 

8.  Soul's  light,  our  learned  one  is  not,  for  he 
has  been  hidden  on  us.  .1.  There  is  not  with  us  any  who 
benefits  or  illuminates  our  soul  in  this  time,  for  our  learned 


28  amrca  choluim  chilli. 

pui.  No,  "  conOio"  .1.  pallim  .1.  mci  nopailleo  o  popcecul 
bpéncaio  ap  cinao  "]  ap  capgabal.  No,  m  lepai^enO 
apn  anmain  ap  pin,  ap  popoil^eo  epono  .1.  conDi[cup]. 

9.  CONROeUUT?  blU  baUll.  .1.  Intf  nochoi- 
neceo,  no  nocomécao  apm  biu  aecbac :  no  inci  nochoin- 
eceo  apm  biu  co  cam,  acbac. 

10.  ai?  ooNbauh  bo  cxrn  aiPceNO  a 

Dl C5[€]  ■'•  Clcbac  aipuno  inci  o'm  ba  ipeeno  apn 
áilgiup  olí^chec,  ap  Oobepeo  bun  cec  ni  ba  ail  Dim  co 
jjlijcech.  No,  inci  bá  aipceno  ppi  aipcepecc  apn  aolaige, 
acbach. 

11.  ai?  ooNbauh  bapvaoau  poioiam. 

.1.  acbach  epuno  inci  noopaiomip  co  ap  piaoac  .1.  co 
apn  Oia  maich  .1.  ap  cegeo  a  ppipuc  pop  nem  cec 
oapoám. 

12.  area  ni  'N  pissio  prcisberceo  ottinu 

hUQ'IN.  .1.  Ctp  ni  bepeo  inci  Oobepeo  pip-pic  oíin  :  no, 
pip  aic  co  na  bio  ímecla  ocuno.    No,  in  pipio  cé^eo  úain 

13.  an  ni  'N  uaulipiu  oo  sluingo  poem. 

pi'R  .1.  Ni  aicpeceno  cocuno  inci  nopereo  uain  "|  nopluineo 
pip  pocuil ;  no,  ni  cic  Di  áp  cacpeop  .1.  01  áp  pépuguD. 

14.  ai?  ni  'N  popceucaio  porccaNao 

'CU'Q'CnQ  UO'l.  .1.  Op  ni  maip  in  popceclaiO  nonpop- 
canao  na  cuaca  com  bicip  inn  a  cope:  no,  nopopcanao 
cúacha  ím  Denam  coi  :  no,  in  popceclaiO  nopopcanao  na 
cuaca  bacap  1m  Uai  .1.  ainm  ppouha  m  Ctlbain. 

15.  huite  biuh  ba  hae  he.  .1.  rcobo  leppeom 

inc  ule  bir.  No  oan  íp  incípecc  pégcaip  ano  .1.  "hé"  .1. 
cpua^.  .1.  ip  cpúa^  acac  acpebraiOe  in  becha  pobo  lep- 
peom :  ip  cpoc  cen  ceíp  íacpiOe  "]  ip  cell  cen  abaio. 

16.  is  cuwc  ceN   ceis,  is   cell   cgn 

abCllO.  .1.  Céip  amm  00  cpuic  bic  bip  1  comaicecc 
cpuice    mópe    hi   compinm  :    no,   ainm    oo'n   oel^ain  bic 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  29 

one  has  gone  from  us  to  a  fair  land.  Or,  "  condio,"  that  is, 
"  /  salt"  :  that  is,  he  who  used  to  salt  from  instruction  the 
stench  of  our  crimes  and  of  our  transgressions.  Or,  our 
learned  one  does  not  enlighten  our  soul,  for  he  has  been 
covered  on  us  .1.  "  conditus,"  (he  has  been  buried). 

9.  Who  used  to  preserve  alive,  has  died.  .1.  He 
who  used  to  indulge,  or  who  used  to  guard  our  living,  has 
died  ;  or,  who  used  to  kindly  indulge  our  living,  has  died. 

10.  Fur  he  has  died  on  us,  who  was  our  chief 
from  right.  .1.  He  has  died  on  us,  from  whom  was  certain 
our  lawful  importunity,  for  he  used  to  give  us  everything 
that  was  pleasing  to  us  lawfully.  Or,  he  who  was  sure  for 
the  commiseration  of  our  vilenesses,  has  died. 

11.  For  he  has  died  on  us  who  was  God's  messenger. 
.1.  He  has  died  on  us,  whom  we  used  to  send  to  our  Fiada, 
that  is,  to  our  good  God :  that  is,  for  his  spirit  used  to  go 
to  heaven  every  Thursday. 

12.  For  the  seer  is  not,  who  used  to  attack 
fears  from  us.  .i.  For  he  brings  not  who  used  to  bring 
knowledge  of  peace  to  us :  or,  quick  knowledge,  so  that 
there  be  not  terror  with  us.  Or,  the  seer  who  used  to  go 
from  us  to  Hi. 

13.  For  the  reprehender  is  not,  who  used  to  explain 
truth  of  words.  .1.  He  re-runs  not  to  us,  who  used  to  run 
from  us,  and  used  to  explain  truth  of  word  :  or,  he  comes 
not  for  our  reprehension,  that  is,  for  making  us  wise. 

14.  For  the  teacher  is  not,  who  used  to  teach  the 
tribes  of  Toi.  .1.  For  the  teacher  lives  not,  who  used  to 
teach  the  tribes  until  they  used  to  be  silent :  or,  who  used 
to  teach  tribes  about  the  making  of  silence  :  or,  the  teacher 
who  used  to  teach  the  tribes  who  were  around  Tai :  that 
is,  the  name  of  a  river  in  Alba. 

15.  Whole  world — it  was  his.  .1.  The  whole  world 
was  his.  Or  again,  it  is  an  interjection  that  is  viewed  in  it ; 
that  is,  "  he,"  that  is,  "  wretched"  that  is  :  A  wretched  thin  a- 
are  the  inhabitants  of  the  world  which  was  his  ;  a  harp 
without  a  base-chord  are  these,  and  a  church  without  an 
abbat. 

16.  It  is  a  harp  without  a  base-chord,  it  is  a 
church  without  an  abbat.  .1.  Ceis  is  a  name  for  a 
small  harp  which  does  be  in  accompaniment  of  a  large 


30  cmiRd  clioluiin  chilli. 

popcap  in  céic  him  muoe  na  cpoce,  no  do  na  coblai^ib  : 
no,  amni  oo'n  cpom-cec.  Mo,  íp  í  m  ceip  íp  in  cpuic  am 
congbap  in  lecpino  con  a  cécaib  inci,  uc  Dipcic  poeca — 
T?op  mac  pino  cecinic,  no  pepcepcne  pile  : 

Ni  celc  ceip  ceol  oe  cpuic  Cpabcene 

Co  pelapcap  pop  plua^u  pnan-bap  : 
Conpepc  coibniup  ecep  pceo  TTlain 
TTlopiaec  macDacc  TTlopca  : 
ba  mo  lé  cech  I05  Cabpeio. 
ba  bmnui  cec  ceol  in  cpoc, 
Gppece  Laibpaio  Coingpec  Cope  : 
Cia  p'ba  Oocc  pop  pune  in  pi, 
Mi  pocelc  ceip  Cpaipcmi. 

Ppimum  capiculum  hinc  upcpie  canicup. 


[CapiCULUTTl  11]. 

DE    ASCENSIONE    EIUS    IN    CCELUM. 

1.  crcxRUic  r?oarco  urccrcli  oe'eocum 

CUIUGCUQ.  .1.    Qcpapacc  co  poapD  Culum   in   can 
ránic  cuicecca  Oé  ap  a  cent»  .1.  angil  Oé. 

2.  piNN-[p]eCCa  PReSUaC.  .1.  lp  pmn,  noip 
caicnemac  in  peral  01  á  cáncacap  ppepral  :  no,  íp  pinn 
in  pío-[p]laic  came  1  ppepcal  Choluim  Cilli  .i.  Qpcal 
aingel  cum  cecepip  angelip. 

3.  P15C13  pUU  bCTl.  .1.  Oopijni  pijill  in  poc 
pobái  im  uica  .1.  Oct  céc  Dec  pleccan  leip  cac  lai,  ace  1 
pollomnaib  cancum,  comcap  lépi  a  apnai  cpian  a  bla-lin, 
uc  Oi;ric  poeca  : — 

15lé,  nolai^eD  íp  inn  £eim, 
In  a  I15U  bá  móp-páec  : 
Slice  a  apna  cpian  a  écac 
bá  léip  DanapéceD  ^aec. 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  31 

harp  in  co-playing  :  or,  a  name  for  the  small  pin  which 
holds  the  cord  in  the  wood  of  the  harp,  or  for  the  tacklings, 
or  for  the  heavy  chord.  Or  the  ceis  in  the  harp  is,  what 
holds  the  side-part  with  its  chords  in  it,  as  the  poet  said — 
Ros  Mac  Find  sang,  or  Fercertne  the  poet : — 

The  base-chord  concealed  not  music  from  the  harp  of 

Crabtene, 
Until  it  dropped  sleep-death  upon  hosts  : 
It  strew  affinity  between  Main 
And  full-grown  Moriaet  Morca  : 
Greater  with  her  than  every  price  Labreid. 
Sweeter  than  any  music  the  harp, 
Which  delighted  Labraid  Loingsech  Lore  : 
Though  sullen  upon  secrets  was  the  king, 
The  base-chord  of  Craiptine  concealed  not. 

The  first  capitulum  is  sung  as  far  as  this. 


[CHAPTER  II]. 

of  his  ascent  to  heaven. 

1.  Very  high  rose  God's  time  coldm  of  company, 
.1.  Colum  rose  very  high  the  time  God's  companies  came 
to  meet  him  .1,  God's  angels. 

2.  Bright-shrine  attendance.  .1.  Bright  is,  or  shining 
is  the  shrine  to  which  they  came  an  attendance  :  or,  bright 
is  the  peace-prince  who  came  to  the  attendance  of  Colum 
Cille  ;  that  is,  Angel  Axal  with  the  rest  of  the  angels. 

3.  He  figulated  long  as  he  was.  .i.  He  made  Jigidum 
the  length  (of  time)  he  was  in  life  ;  that  is,  twelve  hundred 
prostrations  by  him  each  day,  except  in  great  festivals 
only,  so  that  his  ribs  were  manifest  through  his  sheet,  as 
the  poet  said  : 

Clear,  he  used  to  be  in  the  sand, 

In  his  bed  was  much  distress  ; 
The  form  of  his  ribs  through  his  dress 

Was  manifest  when  the  wind  would  blow  it. 


32  cnnrca  choluim  chilli. 

4.  bai  SaeSUC-SNeiD.  .1.  TCobo  5apic  a  pae5ul 
.1.  peccm  bliaona  peccmogac,  uc  oipcic  in  pile  : 

Ueopa  bliatma  bói  cen  lép 
Colum  in  a  t>ub-péclep  : 
Lino  co  liainglib  an  a  cacc 
lap  ré  bliaona  peccmo^ac. 

5  bai  SG'HTl-Sa'Ch.  .1.  ba  becc  a  paic  .1.  ba  bee 
Domeleo,  no  ba  bee  a  hapao. 

6.  bm  sab  suite  cec  oino.  .1.  Pobapab 

Dampen  nopoao  cechn  [ojiummup,  no  pobo  pui-abb  :  no 
pabb  cec  oenria  .1.  ceca  aipecca  cop  a  picceo  Colum 
Cille.  Mo,  ba  po-abb  1  pucemlacc  cec  beplai  co  clechi : 
no,  pobo  nepemap  íp  inc  [p]uice  co  piacc  co  cleci. 

7.  bai  oino  oc  liburc-leisoocu.  .1.  i?0bo 

Dint)  popceclaoa  leijjip  Colum  Cille. 

8.  caissais  uvre  curaiuh.  .1.  T?opoiiipiS,  no 

polepaig  cipi  1  cuacha.  No,  polap  oe  in  rip  cuaio  :  no, 
polapapcap  íp  in  cip  cuaio  :  no,  polepaig  in  cip  cuaio  : 
no,  popo  laip  é. 

9.  LG1S  UUaUll  OCClOGNS.  .1.  Leppai5ep,  no 
poillpi^ip  :  no,  pobo  leip  cuac  occioencip  .1.  épiu  -j  Imp 
60  pinne  popp  ino  [pjapge  .1.  cucpuma  poholpig,  no 
polep-ail  aquilonem  1  occioencem. 

10.  COUr?0[ill]  LaS  OR1GNS.  .1.  Curpumma 
poba  leip  opienp  ~|  occmenp. 

11.  OC  Ctei?lb  Cl?l-OOCUaib.  .1.  Oc  cleipchib 
'n  a  cpiDib  popechi  :  no,  o  na  cleipchib  cop  na  cpioib 
popcoib  popo^laim.  No  Dan  popo  oocc  a  cpioe  ím 
clepcecc  ppi  cac. 

12.  pO'  Ol6aO.  .1.  TTlaic  a  epilciu,  ap  pic  oibao 
1  bach  1  ba  -|  ceme  ic  plui[n]o  epilcen. 

13.  oe'  aiN5ic  me  assi[N]or?ochaib.  .1. 

am^il  Oé  nime  Dooeochacap  ap  a  cent)  in  can  conuap- 
jaib. 

Secunoum  capiculum  hue  upque. 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  33 

4.  He  was  life-small.  .1.  His  life  was  short,  that  is, 
seventy-seven  years,  as  the  poet  has  said : 

Three  years  was  without  light 
Colum  in  his  black  church  : 
He  went  with  angels  from  his  prison 
After  six  years  [and]  seventy. 

5.  He  was  of  slender  food.  .1.  Little  was  his  suffi- 
ciency, that  is,  little  was  what  he  used  to  consume,  or  little 
was  the  satisfying  of  him. 

6.  He  was  chief  of  science  in  every  hill.  .1.  He 
was  a  firm  chief,  who  used  to  repel  every  haughtiness  ;  or, 
he  was  a  learned  abbat ;  or,  chief  of  every  hill,  that  is, 
of  every  assembly  to  which  he  used  to  go,  was  Colum 
Cille.  Or,  he  was  a  good  abbat  in  the  knowledge  of  every 
language  to  perfection  ;  that  is,  he  was  mighty  in  the 
knowledge  until  he  came  to  perfection. 

7.  He  was  a  fort  at  the  book  of  the  law  learned. 
.1.  A  fort  of  teachers  of  the  law  was  Colum  Cille. 

8.  He  inflamed  country,  territory.  .1.  He  illumi- 
nated or  he  benefited  countries  and  territories.  Or,  the 
north  country  blazed  from  him  ;  or,  he  blazed  in  the 
north  country,  or  he  benefited  the  north  country ;  or,  it 
was  his. 

9.  The  west  territory  was  his.  .1.  He  benefited,  or 
he  illuminated  ;  or,  the  territory  of  the  West  was  his,  that 
is,  Eriu  and  Inis  Bo  Finne  on  the  ocean  :  that  is,  alike  he 
illuminated,  or  he  benefited  North  and  West. 

10.  East  was  equally  his.  .1.  Alike  were  his  East 
and  West. 

11.  With  companies  heart-reserved.  .1.  With  clerics 
in  their  hearts  gloomy  :  or,  from  the  clerics  with  the  learned 
hearts  he  learned.  Or,  again,  his  heart  was  reserved  about 
clericising  with  every  one. 

12.  Good  extinction.  .1.  Good  his  death  ;  for  <4  dibad" 
"  bath,"  and  "  ba,"  and  "  teme,"  are  said  in  signification  of 
death. 

13.  With  God's  angels  on  high  he  departed.  .7.  The 
angels  of  the  God  of  heaven  who  came  to  meet  him  when 
he  ascended. 

The  second  chapter  as  far  as  this. 
e 


34  airma  clioluim  chilli. 


[CapiUULUTTl  111]. 

INCIPIT  TERTIUM  [CAPITULUM.]       TITULUS  :       DE  REGIONE  AD 
QUAM    PERVENIT  COLUM  C1LLE,  "|   DE  PLURIEUS  GRADIBUS 

EIUS. 

i.  rca'Nic  ajcalu  La  ai^bPiu   arcchaN- 

^LlU.  i.  i?amc-pom  co  t>u  ira  Qrral  aingel  :  no,  "  a;ralu," 
.1.  au^ilium.  No,  "a^alu,"  .1.  na[n]  ímacalam  .1.  panic 
peom  cip  in  t>éncap  immaccaUaim  .1.  molao  na  Upinore, 
quia  oicunc  hlpaphim  "]  Sapaphim  :  "  Sanccup,  panccup, 
panccup  Oominup  Oeup  Sabaoch."  No  "a^alu"  .1.  uca 
1  polu  .1.  compuiDigut)  ó  Loxm  ~]  o  ^oeoil^  .1.  panic-peom 
a  oen-uo^a  .i.  nem.  No,  a^al  nomen  ino  aingil  noaccallaD 
Colum  CiUe,  1  quoo  epc  uepiup,  uc  uemebac  Uicrop  ao 
Parpicmm.     "  La.  aipbpiu"  .1.  la  ímmeo,  no  la  pluag. 


2.  RQNic  rath  Nao  aoaij  accesuap. 

.1.  "Ramc  in  pepano  nao  aicicep  aoaig  ecep,  ace  lu;r. 

3.  rcaNic  en?  00  Tnoise  muNeimai?.  .t. 

"Panic  in  cip  1  coimnem-ni  TTloipi  00  bir,  ap  'p  ecnaio  cac 
ant),     lp  coip  TTIoipe  t)o  bich  ano  ap  a  [p]ebap. 

4.  i?aNic  mai^e  mo's  Nao  ^eNeuai? 

ClUlL,  .1.  In  it)  bep  nem-genemain  céol,  pet)  pur.c  pempep 
in  pe. 

5.  Nao    esueu  ecNaioe.   .1.   Nao  epiec 

ecnait>e,  quia  mail  pepibunc  in  pucupo  -|  non  bom.  No, 
nat)  eyrtz  ecnaioe  ppi  apaile,  cfina  omnep  pepici  punc  in 
coelo  :  no,  m  ecac  ecnaioe  a  aipneip,  No,  ni  ecyenD  nee 
ppi  écnac.  No,  ni  cluinec  ecnaioe  niat),  ap  ciuep  celep- 
cep  oppicio  aupium  coppopahum  non  mtngenr,  pet)  co^iua- 
cionep  puap  incpoppiciunu  alcepurpum. 


THE  AM11A  OF  COLTIil  CILLE. 


[CHAPTER  III]. 

THE  THIRD  [CHAPTER]  BEGINS.  THE  TITLE  :  OF  THE  REGION 
TO  WHICH  COLUM  CILLE  CAME  :  AND  OF  ITS  SEVERAL 
ORDERS. 

1.  He  has  reached  conversations  with  throngs — 
archangels.  .1.  He  came  to  the  place  where  Angel  Axal 
is,  or,  "axalu,"  that  is,  auxiUum  (help).  Or,  "axalu,"  that  is: 
"  of  the  conversations  ;"  that  is,  he  reached  a  land  in  which 
conversation  is  made ;  that  is,  the  praising  of  the  Trinity, 
because  the  Cherubim  and  Seraphim  say, *'  Holy,  holy,  holy, 
Lord  God  of  Sabaoth."  Or,  "  axalu,"  that  is,  nca  (choice), 
and  solu  (only)  :  that  is,  a  composition  from  Latin  and 
from  Goedelic  :  that  is,  he  reached  his  only  choice,  that  is, 
heaven.  Or,  Axal  is  the  name  of  the  angel  who  used  to 
address  Colum  Cille,  and  what  is  truer,  as  Victor  used  to 
come  to  Patric.  "  La  airbriu,"  that  is,  "  with  a  multitude," 
or  "  with  a  host." 

2.  He  has  reached  a  territory  where  night  he 
saw  not.  .i.  He  has  reached  the  territory  where  night  is 
not  seen  at  all,  but  light. 

3.  He  has  reached  a  land  for  moses  we  deem.  .1. 
He  has  reached  the  land  in  which  we  deem  Moses  to  be, 
for  every  one  in  it  is  a  sage.  It  is  right  that  Moses  be  in 
it  for  his  excellence. 

4.  He   has  reached   plains  where  it  is  a  custom  j 

THAT    MELODIES    ARE    NOT    BORN.  .1.    Ill    which   non-birth    of  [ 

melodies  is  the  custom,  but  they  are  always  in  it. 

5.  That  sages  die  not.  .1.  That  sages  do  not  perish, 
because  the  bad  shall  perish  in  the  future,  and  not  the 
good.  Or,  that  sages  listen  not  to  each  other,  because 
all  are  learned  in  heaven  ;  or,  sages  are  not  capable  of  telling 
of  it.  Or,  no  one  listens  to  oppression.  Or,  sages  hear 
not  a  spirit,  for  the  celestial  citizens  need  not  the  office 
of  bodily  ears,  but  they  look  into  their  thoughts  the  one 
the  other's. 


36  cimrca  choluim  chilli. 

6.  asrcala  i?i  sacapu  saeclm  .1.  Poia 

ap  pi  na  pacapc  a  j  áechu  :    .1.  in  ampip  a  ecpectra,  uc 
Dicicup  :    cpipcip  epc  anima  "]c. 

hue  upque  repcium  [capiculum]. 


[capiuucum  iu.] 

ET  IN  HOC  QUARTO  CAPITULO  DE  MARTIR10  EIUS 
COMMEMORATUR. 

1.  rcocehaes  jaiR  combuic.  .1.  i?ocepap- 

cap  íp  in  gapic-pé  pobui  ipop,  co  pobpipepcap  cac  pop 
Demon  -\  tiomon. 

2.  bai  hu'auh  ppi  Demal.  .1.  r?oboi  peom 

co  p'bo  húac  hé  ppi  Demon.  No,  "ppi  Demal"  [.1.]  ppi 
Dee  mail  :  no  "  ppi  De-mal"  .1.  ppi  pi  nan  Demna  .1.  "De" 
o'nDi  ap  Demon,"  mat,"  .1.  pi.  No  "Demal"  nomen  ppo- 
pjiium  Demonip  nobic  ic  aimpiguo  Coluim  Cille  Dogpep. 

3.  Di  am  bo  soisce  celebrcaD.  .1.  Di  am 

bo  coi  apcuoa  celebpao  Coluim  Chilli.  No,  goipce  aipi 
péin  .1.  aipec  nochluneD  in  Demon  giich  Coluim  Chilli 
i[c]  celebpaD,  ni  lamaD  cop  De  co  caipceD  in  celebpaD  : 
-]  con  íappaigcip  pcela  Do  íap  pein  o  Cholum  Chilliu.  No, 
pobo  ^oipre  ^abala  Do'n  Demon  pobui  ip  in  mac  lejinD  in 
apo  TDacha  .1.  mace  leginD  noche^eo  co  mmnai  clépi^ 
anD  .1.  In  can  Do^nirea  celebpaD  -j  opppenD  ípp  anD 
norhegeD  cuci,  co  poapi^  Colum  Cille  pechc  anD  in  Demon 
ic  pméciuD  pop  in  mac  legin,  co  pochaipmipc  Colum 
Cille  imm  on  mac  léginD  Dul  immach.  l?obo  ^oirce 
gobála  Din  De  Demon  celebpaD  Coluim   Chilli  anD  pein. 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLTJM  CILLE.  37 

6.  The  king  of  priests  dismissed  distresses.  .1.  The 
king  of  the  priests  sent  off  his  distresses  :  that  is,  in  the 
time  of  his  death,  as  is  said,  "  my  soul  is  sorrowful,  and  so 
forth." 

Hither  so  far  the  third  [chapter]. 


[CHAPTER  IV]. 

AND    IN    THIS   FOURTH    CHAPTER    COMMEMORATION    IS    MADE 
OF  HIS  MARTYRDOM. 

1.  He  suffered  short  until  he  won.  .1.  He  suffered 
in  the  short  time  he  was  here,  until  he  broke  battle  on 
Devil  and  world. 

2.  He  was  a  horror  to  the  devil.  .1.  He  lived  until 
he  was  a  horror  to  the  Devil.  Or,  to  "De  mal,"  [that  is], 
to  the  God  of  evil  :  or,  "fri  de-mal,"  that  is,  to  the  king 
of  the  demons,  that  is,  "  de,"  from  the  word  demon ; 
"  mal,"  that  is,  king.  Or,  "  Denial"  is  the  proper  name  of 
the  demon  that  used  to  be  tempting  Colum  Cille  con- 
tinually. 

3.  To  whom  celebration  was  suspension,  .i.  To 
whom  the  celebration  of  Colum  Cille  was  a  way  of  ar- 
resting. Or,  a  suspension  on  himself :  that  is,  while  the 
Devil  used  to  hear  the  voice  of  Colum  Cille  at  celebration, 
he  would  not  dare  a  stir  from  him  until  he  would  finish 
the  celebration  :  and  until  news  used  to  be  asked  of  him 
after  that  by  Colum  Cille.  Or,  it  was  a  suspension  of 
possession  for  the  demon  who  was  in  the  student  in  Ard 
Macha  :  that  is,  a  student  who  used  to  go  to  a  cleric's 
woman  there.  That  is,  the  time  celebration  and  offering  used 
to  be  made,  it  is  then  he  used  to  go  to  her,  until  Colum 
Cille  on  one  occasion  perceived  the  demon  at  beckoning 
on  the  student,  so  that  Colum  Cille  made  a  prohibition 
about  the  student  going  out.  The  celebration  of  Colum 
Cille  then  at  that  time  was  a  suspension  of  possession 
from  the  demon.     For  the  space  of  a  mile  and  half  of  a 


38  ami? a  choluim  chilli. 

Ppi  pé  mile  col  leicli  mile  ba  pollup  gurh  Col.  C.  i[c] 
celebpaD,  uc  Di;cic  poera  : 

Son  a  ^oclia — Colmm  Cille, 

TTIo]i  a  binne  úap  each  cléip  : 
Co  cenD  cúic  cec  Dec  ceimmenD, 

Qioble  pemmenD,  eo  ba  péil. 

4.  as  a  chemo  cumachcais.  .1.  a  cu- 

macca  a  clileipcecca  Do^niD  pom  pein. 

5.  CONRO'lUGT?  17CCU  PObUSU.  .1.  Cain 
]io[p]ici]i,  no  pochoméc  in  peer  ponaipu.  No,  pochomec 
pechc  .1.  peccicubmem  :  pobupc  .1.  ]iobupcup  .1.  ponaipe 
lie  1  corner  Dipgecar». 

6.  i?opes  RU'aiin,  pope's  sens.  .1.  i?oFep 

poim  a  haDnaicre,  no  popep  ic  Róim  a  ecna  pom 
"]  a  cpabuD.  Sepp  .1.  po-pip  .1.  pip  ecnai  1  pcncpine.  hm 
[D]iin  Dan  acbepac  apaile  eippeip^e  Choluim  Clnlle  do 
bicli,  uu  Di^ic  poeca  : 

hi'  con  llup  a  mmapupa 
Oi  am  ba  Colum  coem-oa^a  : 
Oolluir)  eppi  pó  DepeD, 
ConiD  Oun  a  pen-nemeD. 

7.  rcoswche  oo'  oa'ma  oeacua.  .1.  r?o- 

puiDi^eD  Do  aipue  na  Deachca  ap  regeD  cac  DapDain  ao 
Oommum.  .1.  Rooamao  dó  puiche  na  Deachca  :  ó  mace 
Oé  póecappcap  pern.  No  pobo  in  Deacc  Damcha 
meic  Oé. 

8.  OCPb  Oaj  1171  ba.  .1.  lp  oemin  ip  main  inu 
éc  DocuaiD  :  no,  ím  ba  1  .1.  maic  1m  ba  ipui. 

9.  ba  eola  a;talN  aiNgel.  .1.  ba  eoiac  m 

ímmaccalmaib  ain^el  ;  no,  ba  eolac  in  lmniaccallaim 
D'  angil  DaniD  ainm  Q;ral. 

10.  ar?bei?c  bassiL  bftaulm  .1.  in  bnac 

Diummupa  DochuaiD  uiD   ím  mop-Dcul  Opomma  Ceuca, 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  39 

mile  the  voice  of  Colura  Cille  at  celebration  was  manifest, 
as  the  poet  said  : 

The  sound  of  his  voice,  Colum  Cille's, 

Great  its  sweetness  above  every  company  : 

To  the  end  of  fifteen  hundred  paces — 
Yast  courses — it  was  clear. 

4.  From  his  powerful  profession.  .1.  From  the  power 
of  his  clericship  he  used  to  do  that. 

5.  Firm  he  preserved  law.  .1.  Well  he  knew,  or  he 
guarded  the  firm  law.  Or,  he  guarded  law,  that  is,  recti- 
tude :  "  robust,"  that  is,  firm  :  that  is,  firm  he  in  guard- 
ing rectitude. 

6.  Sepulchre  was  known,  wisdom  was  known  .1.  The 
sepulchre  of  his  burial  was  known :  or,  his  wisdom  and 
devotion  were  known  at  Rome.  "  Sess,"  that  is,  "  so-fis," 
(good  knowledge),  that  is,  knowledge  of  wisdom  and  of 
prophecy.  In  Dun  (Downpatric),  again,  some  say  the 
resurrection  of  Colum  Cille  will  be,  as  the  poet  has  said  : 

Hi  with  the  multitude  of  its  relics, 

Of  which  was  Colum,  beauteous  disciple  : 

He  went  out  of  it  at  last, 

So  that  Dun  is  his  blessed  church. 

7.  The  science  of  Deity  used  to  be  laid  down  for 
him  .i.  The  speciality  of  the  Deity  used  to  be  laid  down 
by  him,  for  he  used  to  go  every  Thursday  to  the  Lord. 
That  is,  the  knowledge  of  the  Deity  was  granted  to  him  : 
from  the  Son  of  God  he  received  that.  Or,  he  was  in 
deity  the  taught  of  the  Son  of  God. 

8.  Truly,  good  is  the  death,  j.  It  is  certain  that  good 
is  the  death  he  departed  :  or,  "  im  ba  i,"  that  is,  good  is  this 
death. 

9.  He  was  skilful  of  conversations  of  angels.  .1. 
He  was  skilful  in  conversations  of  angels  :  or,  he  was 
familiar  in  conversation  to  an  angel  whose  name  is 
Axal. 

10.  He  expounded  Basil's  judgments,  .1.  The  design 
of  pride  that  entered  him  in  the  great  convention  of  Druim 


40  amRCi  choluim  chilli. 

coniD  aipi  pern  cue  baiclnn  cepcemain  a  bapil  Do 
cpóecao  in  Diumaip.      No,   noaipbipeD    bpecha    bpácba 

11.  arcsaiT?  ^niitiu  oe  aobsib— ambftib 

QlDbLlb  QlObSlb.  .i.  Poejigaip  íimme  a  menmain 
Do  bich  inn  a  Oia  in  molaD  Dopacpac  na  ploi^  paip. 
No,  poepgapc  gnimu  Oé  De  cbaibpin  nan  immeDn  Dub, 
Duabpech  ;  ~]  íp  eO  ap^ap^  De  peom  pein  in  cepcemain  a 
6apil,  no  na  bpecba.  "  QiDbpi"  amm  in  chiuil,  no  in 
cpónain  oognícip  epmóp  pepn  G'peno  in  can  pin,  ciD  eD 
DopcanaD  immalle  :  ~|  ip  cpiap  in  ceol  pin  ooponpac  pip 
Spent)  Do  Cholum  Chi  111  u  mi  mópDail  Opomma  Ceca 
poáp  miao  menman  mD. 

hue  upeme  quapcum  [capiculum]. 


[capieucum  u.] 

DE  SCIENTIA  EIUS  IN  OMNI  PARTE  [HOC  QUINTUM  CAPITULUmJ. 

1.  "RaiUh  RICh  PGUlies.  .i.  Ropaichepcap, no 

cappaiD  r>6  in  pich  popecepcap. 

2.  oai?  cais  ccriN-oeNam.  .i.  Do[5]nio  cam- 

^ním  Dap  ceno  a  mipcpen  .i.  ap  pic  caip  .i.  mipcaip. 

3.  pai5  peT?b  piUhlT?.  .1.  Nopúa5eD,no  nopigeo 
bpechip  mD  popcecail  in  péch-acaip.  No, "  picbip".i.  pip, 
no  amnap.  6id  Dan  "  pepb"  ic  plamD  cpi  pec  .1.  "  pepb" 
bpiacliap,  uc  Dicicup  :  "  maD  íap  pepbaib  pip-ampaib 
beplai  biapbain  :"  no,  "íppap  pénecliap  ic  pepbaib  Oé." 
6id  Dan  "pepb"  bole, uc  Dicicup  :  "  Uupcbaic  pepba  pop 
a  gpuaoaib  lap  cíl-bpechaib"  .i.  lap  cloén-bpecaib.  6id 
Dan  "  pepb,"  uc  Dicicup  :  "chéopa  pepba  pipa  Dopnacbc," 
.i.  popimmaig  Qppal  ap  TTI05  Nuaoac. 


THE  AURA  OF  COLTTM  CILLE.  41 

Cetta,  so  that  it  is  on  account  of  that  Baithine  quoted  a 
text  from  Basil  for  the  subduing  of  the  pride.  Or,  he  used 
to  expound  the  judgments  of  judgment  from  Basil. 

11.  He  forbade  works  from  choruses — vast  throngs, 
choruses.  i.  He  forbade,  for  his  mind  to  be  in  God, 
the  praising  the  hosts  gave  on  him  :  or,  he  took  charge 
of  the  works  of  God  from  the  appearance  of  the  black, 
hideous  multitudes  :  and  it  is  what  excited  that  from  him 
— the  text  from  Basil,  or  the  judgments.  Aidbsi  is  the 
name  of  the  music,  or  of  the  cronan  most  of  the  men  of 
Eriu  used  to  perform  that  time,  whatever  they  would  sing 
together  :  and  it  is  through  that  music,  which  the  men  of 
Eriu  made  for  Colum  Cille  in  the  great  convention  of 
Druim  Cetta,  pride  of  mind  grew  in  him. 

Hither  so  far  the  fourth  [chapter]. 


[CHAPTER  V.] 

OF  HIS  LEARNING  IN  EVERY  PART. 

1.  He  perceived  the  course  he  ran  .i.  He  perceived, 
or  the  course  he  ran  occurred  to  him. 

2.  For  hatred  benefaction,  .i.  He  used  to  do  benefit 
[in  return]  for  hatred  of  him :  that  is,  for  "  cais"  means, 
namely,  hatred. 

3.  The  teacher  sewed  word.  .t.  The  perception- 
father  used  to  sow,  or  used  to  weave,  the  word  of  the 
doctrine.  Or,  "fithir,"  that  is,  continual,  or  difficult.  "  Ferb," 
again,  is  used  to  mean  three  things  :  that  is,  ferb,  a  word, 
as  is  said:  "If according  to  the  truly  wonderful  words 
of  the  white  language  it  shall  be:"  or,  "Fenechus  is 
void  beside  the  words  of  God."  "  Ferb"  is  also  bole  (a  bag, 
a  blotch),  as  is  said  :  "  Blotches  rise  on  his  cheeks  after 
crooked  judgments,"  that  is,  after  unjust  judgments. 
''Ferb"  also  is,  as  is  said:  "Three  white  cows,  he  drove 
them  off:"  that  is.  Assal  drove  them  on  Mog  Nuadat. 


42  cuima  choluim  chilli. 

4.  ^aiS  5lUasa  ^IC  .t.  6a  ^ap  hé  ic  epplocut) 
na[n]  jjluap  :  no  pobo  ^aec  rum  ic  ^leoo  glepeppa.  No 
^onaip  na  ^lúapa  co  glé  .i.  eochaip  glé  Colum  Cille  Do 
yiéoi5UD  ^lúap  no  cepc. 

5.  5L1NS1US  SC&TTIU.  .1.  r?oSlinm5  na  palmu  po 
obil  -]  apcpipc ;  no,  popoglamD  na  palmu. 

6.  sIuinsius  le'15  librcu,  Ubum  uucare 

CQSGON.  .1.  T^opluinnepcap  na  palmu  ic  a  ciccain 
lapn  a  poglaim,  -j  íp  uap  in  plumn,  piup  po  ípin.  No, 
pic  :  poplumepcap  libpu  lei$  .1.  int>  pecca,  amail  poca- 
papcap  libpu  Gom  Capeoin.  No,  ni  p'bo  mo  leipp  libuip 
mt>  pechca  00  ciaccam  croam  libuip  Goin  Cappeoin  :  no, 
poles  ^oin  Cappiom  libpu  le^ip. 

7.  cauha  ^ulae  saelais.  .1.  ttogaiiapcan 

cacha  m  cpóip.  No  Culai  ap  maic  ant>  .1.  pobpip  each 
na  cpí  Cúl  .1.  cac  Culi  Dpemni  pop  Connaccu,  1 
each  Culi  pet»a  pop  Colman  TTlop,  mac  Oiapmaca, 
-]  each  Culi  l?achin  pop  Ulcu  ic  copnam  l?oip 
Úopochaip  ecep  Colum  Cille  ocup  Cornwall.  No,  jalaip, 
pobpipepcap,  uc  Dipcic  poeca : 

TTlop  Do  chacaib  jaelapcap, 
pop  [a]  achaip  palapcap  : 
TTIacc  in  mail  a  main-mapcen, 
T?i  pep  pail  aoagapcap. 

8.  LlbPU  SOlTTiaN  Se^US.  [.i.]  No,  popiach 
libpu  Solman.  No,  pepcup  .1.  pegiup,  uc  oicicup  penchap 
ppo  penchap. 

9.  siNa  sceo  imr?imct  rcaiuh.— impima  .1. 

txmenna  -j  onoi  ap  imbép  acá  impima  :  "paich,"  .1.  po- 
paiDepcap  pem  .l.Doucat)  in  can  cicpao  poneno-)  ooneno. 

10.  T?aNNais  rcaiNO  co  piguii?  ecer? 

Llbl?U  LC'lg.  .i-  Popannapcap  paino  co  pijuipoachr 
ecep  lebpaib  mo  legino,  no  ino  pechca  .1.  nooeliseo  a 
pcaip  1  a  pianp  -|  a  mopoil  -\  an  anojaig. 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLTJM  CILLE.  43 

4.  He  probed  glosses  clear.  .1.  He  was  active  at  the 
resolving  of  the  glosses  :  or,  he  was  keen  at  deciding  of  con- 
flicts. Or,  he  probed  the  glosses  clearly  :  that  is,  a  clear  key- 
was  Colum  Cille  for  unravelling  of  glosses,  or  of  questions. 

5.  He  illustrated  psalms.  .1.  He  illustrated  the 
psalms  under  obelisk  and  asterisk :  or,  he  learned  the 
psalms. 

6.  He  explained  the  law's  books — books  which 
Case  on  loved.  .1.  He  explained  the  psalms  at  his  under- 
standing of  them  after  the  learning  of  them  :  and  above  the 
explanation  :  poetry  under  that.  Or  thus  :  He  explained 
the  Books  of  Leg,  that  is,  of  the  Law,  as  Eoin  Caseon 
loved  books :  or,  of  no  greater  importance  was  it  with 
him  to  understand  the  books  of  the  Law,  than  the  books 
of  Eoin  Caseon :  or,  Eoin  Caseon  read  the  books  of  the 
Law. 

7.  He  fought  the  battles  of  the  stomach.  .1.  He 
fought  the  battles  of  the  gluttony.  Or,  "  Culai"  is  what 
is  good  in  it :  that  is,  he  broke  the  battle  of  the  three 
CuVs,  that  is,  the  battle  of  Cul  Dreimne  on  the  Connachta, 
and  the  battle  of  Cul  Feda  on  Colman  Mor,  son  of  Diar- 
mait,  and  the  battle  of  Cul  Eathin  on  the  Ulaicl,  at  the 
contesting  of  Ros  Torathair  between  Colum  Cille  and 
Comgall.     Or,  "  galais,"  he  broke,  as  the  poet  has  said  : 

Much  of  battles  he  broke, 

On  [his]  father  he  poured  : 

The  son  of  the  chief  from  Main-Maistiu, 

The  king  of  the  men  of  Fal  much  dreaded. 

8.  The  books  of  Solomon  he  pursued.  [.1.]  Or  he  pur- 
sued the  books  of  Solomon.  Or,  "  sexus,"  that  is,  "fegius," 
(he  examined),  as  senchas  (law)  is  said  for  fenchas. 

9.  Seasons  and  storms  he  perceived. — "  Imrima," 
that  is,  "  storms,"  and  from  "  imber"  (shower)  imrima  is. 
"  Raith,"  that  is,  he  perceived  that.  That  is,  he  used  to 
understand  when  calm  and  storm  would  come. 

10.  He  divided  division  with  figure  among  the 
books  of  the  law.  .l  He  divided  division  with  figuration 
between  the  books  of  the  reading,  or  of  the  Law.  That  is, 
he  used  to  separate  their  history,  and  their  sense,  and  their 
moral,  and  their  anagogue. 


44  amraa  clioluim  chilli. 

11.  le'gais  rung Rochu'aio euer?  sco- 

LCUt)  SCRGpURQ.  .i.  Roles  punein popuuheco  picip 
na  púne  in  ran  pobui  ecep  pcolaib  ic  po^laim  na  pcpep- 
cpa.  No,  "popualc"  .1.  mnm  Do  beipc  bíp  íp  inD  [pjaipci, 
"|  ip  lac  po  a  aipoe  piDe  .1.  In  ran  pceap  -|  a  ageD 
ppi  cip,  Domma  -\  cepca  ip  in  cip  pin  co  ceno  peccm 
bliaona,  no  ip  in  bliaoam  pin  namma:  mao  puap,  Domma 
"]  mopclaio  ip  ino  aeop  pin  :  mao  pip,  Domma  -| 
mopclaio  pop  mila  in  mapa.  NommpeD  lapum  puna  inD 
anmannai  pin  Do  Doinib,  com  becip  inn  a  poimcin.  Ropualc 
Dan  ann  maile  [ammn  aile  ?]  Do'n  beipc  pin. 


12.  sceo    ellachz:    lmmuaimN    eisci 

lTTirn  RlUtl.  [.i.]  Sceo  .1.  ocup.  RoellseD  acce  peom 
coluiaim  pecha  epci  im  piú  ^péne  .1.  epci  pia  gpéin  o  ppim 
co  cuiciD  Dec,  -\  íap  gpéin  o  chiuciD  Dec  co  ppim. 

13.  Raiuh  Rich  La  jjrginn  ^escais.  .i. 

Ropo  peiD  do  eolap  pecha  epcai  la  pich  na  ^pene  caic- 
nemche.  Ip  aipi  apbepap  "5epcac"ppi  gpéin,  ap  ípuachi 
acá  pollpi  Do  na  pennaib  ailib. 

14.  sceo  reeiN-Rich.  .i.  Robo  éoiac  ip  pie  pémp 

.1.  mapip.  No,  commao  "pian"  bao  choip  anD,  uc  Dijfic 
pinD  hu  baipcne  : 

Scél  lém  Duib  :  DopDaiD  Dam,  Vo^uk.  -r  5 

yibTttU  fa' f*"**  SmgiD  o"aim,  popaich  pam  : 

JLfo    ft?  ku*'T.  ?)áec  apD,  huap,  (pel  gpian, 

i/CAJZr  Uy*»-0^  5aiP  appich,  puchach  pian. 

?w«mftl  5   A*J     •  Ropuao  par  poclech  cpuch, 

'LZtoUCiK  *nÁ**4  Rogab  ^nach  5iii£pano  511c  : 

Isvo  fá*  S01"^   '  Ro^ab  uaclic  ece  én, 

<£fl    v  ^^cv^cU  aiSre  ré-  e>  mopclé.  n_ri*é<* 

. -  j    '    cetJ  Scél  lem  Duib. 

is.  RimpGicli  rino  Nime  ngcIi  incoi 

£A~L      ti^     ^ívto, /<^*<        FEZ  A.'^'  fcstt^w^Ajy/^ 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLTJM  CILLE.  45 

11.  He  read  TnE  mysteries  of  the  great  revelation 
among  schools  of  scriptures.  .1.  He  read  the  mysteries  of 
the  great  wisdom,  until  he  knew  the  mysteries,  the  time  he 
was  among  schools  at  the  learning  of  the  Scriptures.  Or, 
"  Kosualt,"  that  is,  a  name  for  a  monster  which  is  in  the 
ocean,  and  these  are  its  signs.  The  time  it  belches  and 
its  face  towards  land,  poverty  and  scarcity  in  that  land  till 
the  end  of  seven  years,  or  in  that  year  only :  if  it  is  up- 
wards, poverty  and  mortality  in  the  air  that :  if  it  is  down- 
wards, poverty  and  mortality  on  the  animals  of  the  sea. 
He  used  to  relate  afterwards  the  mysteries  of  that  animal 
to  people,  that  they  might  be  in  suspicion  of  him  (on  their 
guard  against  him).  Rosualt  accordingly  is  another  name 
for  that  monster. 

12.  And  he  harmonized  moon's  co-circle  in  regard 
to  course.  [.i.]  "  Sceo,"  that  is,  and.  The  co-circle  of 
Moon's  course  about  Sun's  course  was  harmonized  with 
him  :  that  is,  Moon  before  Sun  from  prime  to  fifteenth, 
and  after  Sun  from  fifteenth  to  prime. 

13.  He  perceived  (its)  race  with  branching  sun.  .t. 
Easy  for  him  was  the  knowledge  of  Moon's  race  with  the 
race  of  the  radiant  Sun.  It  is  why  branching  is  said  to 
Sun,  because  it  is  from  it  illumination  is  for  the  other 
constellations. 

14.  And  sea-course,  .t.  He  was  skilful  in  the  course 
of  "  renis,"  that  is,  "of  the  sea"  Or,  that  it  may  be 
"rian"  that  was  right  in  it,  as  Find  hU  Baiscne  has 
said  s 

A  tale  I  have  for  you.     Ox  murmurs, 
Winter  pours,  summer  is  gone  : 
Wind  high,  cold  :  sun  low  ; 
Cry  is  attacking,  sea  resounding. 

Very  red  raying  has  concealed  form, 
Voice  of  geese  [barnacles]  has  become  usual : 
Cold  has  caught  wings  of  birds  ; 
Ice-frost  time  :  wretched,  very  wretched. 

A  tale  I  have  for  you. 

15.  He   wr0ULD   count   the   stars   of   heaven,  the 


46  airiRa  choluim  chilli. 

cechN     oircuais     o    chollum    chiLLiu 

CUGcClTTICXI?.  .1.  No  aipmebao  peclanna  nime  inci 
noinnippeo  cac  ní  poucop  pochualamniap  o  Cholum 
Chille  :  no,  noinnippeo  Colum  Cille  oi  a  cpiallao 
pohuaip  Do  pennaib. 

hue  urque  quincum  [capiculum]. 


capiuulum  w. 

DE    ADMIRATIONE    ET    CARITATE    EIUS    HOC    SEXTUM 
CAPITULUM. 

i.  coich   boi,  coich  bra  beo  baoib 
amrcaoaira    cm    lauhaib    ircoocliu  ir. 

'CftUGl'Ch.  .i.  Coich  poboi,  no  cinch  biap  beó  bao 
chomuapal  ppip,  ná  bao  pip-popcchiu  pop  pepannaib  in 
cípi  cuaich  ?  "  Gp  íachaib  ípoochc  "  .i.  bá  epoocc  ppia 
chuaichib  no  chip  aneccaip,  in  can  conucaib  a  chill  hi 
copuc  .i.  Gu  :  "lpcuaic"  .i.  ppim  anchuaich.  No  "ípoocc" 
.1.  ba  epoocc  hi  cuaic  .i.  ba  oocc  a  cobaip  peom  ppi  nech  : 
no,  ba  oochc  ím  chobaip  neich. 


2.  aopeu  co  nit  Nech  Nao  gov  sgoin. 

.i.  Noaipneoeo  copici  nú  mci  na  aichséoin  501  ano  pein. 
No,  ao  "Pec"  pil  ano,  ioem  ec  uecup  cepcamencum,  "j 
an  "  nu"  íp  Nouum  Uepcamencum  .1.  noaipneoeo  oun 
Pecaplaic  co  Nú-píaonaipe,  uc  Oipnc  angelup,  uel  mona- 
chup  : 

TTIaccán  umal,  acbep  cec, 

Oeup  ei  moul^ec  : 
Popcgella  Nil  ocup  pec, 

lm  bechaio  puchain  pupjec. 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  47 

PERSON  WHO  WOULD  EXFOUND  EVERY  EXCEEDINGLY  NOBLE 
THING  WE  HAVE  HEARD  FROM  COLUM  ClLLE.   .1.     He    Would 

count  the  stars  of  heaven  the  person  who  would  relate 
every  very  choice  thing  we  have  heard  from  Colum 
Cille  :  or,  what  Colum  Cille  would  tell  about  his  very 
high  travelling  to  the  stars. 

Hither  so  far  the  fifth  [chapter]. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

ABOUT    THE    ADMIRATION    OF    HIM   AND   ABOUT   HIS    CHARITY 
THIS  SIXTH  CHAPTER. 

1.  "Wno  WAS,  WHO  SHALL  BE  ALIVE,  WHO  WAS  MORE 
WONDERFUL  OVER  TERRITORIES  THAN  THE  VERY 
LEARNED    ONE    OF    THE    NORTH-EAST  ?   .1.    Who  Was,  Or  who 

shall  be  alive,  who  was  co-noble  with  him,  or  who  was 
more  truly-learned  over  the  territories  of  the  north 
country?  "  Ar  iathaib  irdocht,"  that  is,  he  was  very 
reserved  towards  territories,  or  external  country,  the  time 
he  raised  his  church  at  first,  that  is,  Eu  (Hi)  :  "  irthuaith," 
that  is,  facing  me  on  the  north.  Or,  "  irdocht,"  that  is, 
he  was  reserved  in  a  territory  ;  that  is,  reserved  was  his 
association  with  any  one,  or  he  was  reserved  about  the 
association  of  any  one. 

2.  He  used  to  declare  till  lately  one  who  knew 
not  guile.  ,i.  He  used  to  relate  until  lately  he  who  knew 
not  guile  in  himself.  Or,  it  is  "  Fet,"  that  is  in  it,  the  same 
as  Old  Testament,  and  the  "  Nu"  is  New  Testament :  that 
is,  he  used  to  relate  to  us  Veter  Lex  (Old  Law)  with  New 
Witness,  as  an  angel  has  said,  or  a  monk  : 

An  humble  lad,  prophecy  says, 

God  to  him  will  be  kind  : 
He  will  testify  Nu  and  Fet, 

In  life  eternal  he  will  rise. 


48  cutirci  choluim  chilli. 

3.  5i?ess  rcoper?  pecliuNacu.  .1.  r?o5per- 

pai^,  no  pochemni^  immalle  ppip  na  pipu  .i.  ainjil.  No, 
pic  ,i.  ba  pechcnacu  cac  gpepp  in  gpépp  popepapcap 
Colum  Cille. 

4.  prci  crrcuhu  ai?  chacrcu  co  oottiun 

Ol?lNJ)^iei?.  -1-  Fl11  apaou  11a  cacpach  uaipli 
poopingepcap:  "co  oomun"  .1.  co  p'ba  o  ó  apomáin  :  no,  "co 
00  mun"  .1.  co  oa  pomain  .1.  cuipp  ocup  anma  :  no,  "co 
oomun"  .1.  ao  coelum.  No,  "ppi  aprhu  ap  cacpu" 
.1.  ap  clianp  nime,  co  puopebpaing  in  oomun  ppi  pioipi 
piagla  "i  oipmipecca  noeb  ;  ap  íc  ápio  oo^aipcep,  uc 
oicicup  :  "  pcale  uel  coeb  punc  pancui." 

5.   OUR  DeO  OOeNaCllUiia  .1.   ap  o[o]enachc 

meic  Oé  pochepapcap  .1.  co  pa^bao  ^peim  00  cepao 
meic  Dé.  No,  ap  Oia  oo^nio  Ooenacc  .1.  nonacul  neich 
ap  Oia. 

6.  an  [S]asscnb  1215 tier?  .1.  ip  mpi  oo5mo 

pom  ap  pápao  oó  ip  ino  pichiuo  huaral. 

7.  rciRlR  aCCObUR  a  SUlCX  .1.  Ropec  ap  Oia 
cac  ni  pob'  accobop  pi  ae  puil :  na  mná  "]c. 

8.  SU1   SlQN   CfteaS  CPISU   .1.    In  Icm-fui  pen 

pocpecepcap  Cpipc  :  no  plan  cen  pheccao  :  no,  "  cpeip" 
.1.  a  nepbo  "  cpepco"  .1.  popopbpepcap  íapum  1  Cpipc: 
no,  oopac  Cpipc  popbaipr  paip. 

9.  ceo  ni  coir?m,  ceo  ni  sei?c  oLL-saiú: 

SeCNCtlS  beOlL  .1.  Ocup  ni  ebeo  coipm,  no  ni  capao 
coipm,  "1  ni  p'bo  pepcao  leip  co  oll-paich  :  Oopechnao 
Oan  in  be  oil. 

10.  bai  cauli,  bai  casu  .1.  r?obai  each,  no 

poboi  car  .1.  Carholicup, 

11.  bai  carcchaiu.  .1.   cóic  :  ián  00  oéipc 

epeom  uli.      No,  picche  Colum  Cille  ó  Oepeipc. 

12.  ClOUllONO    OC   bUaiO.  .1.   ftoboailicac 
lie  oc  bpeir  buaoa  Do  cac.     No,  "  clouh-ono,"    .1.  cloc 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLTJH  CILLE.  49 

3.  A  COURSE  HE  MADE   MOST  FORTUNATE.   .1.  He  Walked, 

or  he  stepped  together  with  the  white,  that  is,  angels.  Or 
thus:  More  fortunate  than  every  course  was  the  course 
Colum  Cille  made. 

4.  With  the  charioteers  of  Great-city  to  profun- 
dity he  was  brought,  i.  With  the  charioteers  of  the  noble 
city  he  ascended  :  "  co  domun,"  that  is,  until  its  good  gift 
was  for  him.  Or,  "  co  do  mun,"  that  is,  to  two  good  gifts, 
that  is,  of  body  and  of  soul  :  or,  "  co  domun,"  that  is,  to 
heaven.  Or,  "  fri  arthu  ar  chatru,"  that  is,  to  the  city  of 
heaven,  that  he  might  bring  the  world  to  the  ways  of  rules 
and  examples  of  saints,  for  it  is  ladders  they  are  called,  as 
is  said  :  "  the  saints  are  ladders  even  of  heaven." 

5.  Before  God  made  man.  .i.  For  the  humanity  of  the 
Son  of  God  he  suffered :  that  is,  so  that  a  persecution  to 
him  used  to  be  the  suffering  of  the  Son  of  God.  Or,  for 
God  he  used  to  practise  humanity,  that  is,  the  bestowal 
of  a  thing  for  God. 

6.  On  high  he  was  kinged,  .i.  It  is  why  he  used  to 
do  that,  with  a  view .  to  satisfaction  for  him  in  the  noble 
heaven. 

7.  He  yielded  the  desire  of  his  eyes.  .i.  He  ex- 
changed for  God  every  thing  which  was  a  desire  to  his 
eye  :  the  women,  and  so  forth. 

S.  A  perfect  sage,  who  believed  Christ,  .i.  The 
blessed  full-sage  who  believed  Christ ;  or,  perfect  without 
sin.  Or,  "  creis,"  that  is,  from  the  verb  cresco  (I  increase) : 
that  is,  he  increased  afterwards  in  Christ,  or  Christ  gave 
an  increase  on  him. 

9.  And  he  desired  not  ale,  and  not  a  great  suffi- 
ciency: he  avoided  FLESH.  .i.  And  he  used  not  drink  ale, 
or  he  used  not  love  ale,  and  it  was  not  with  him  a  desire 
as  far  as  a  great  sufficiency  ;  he  also  used  to  avoid  the 
flesh. 

10.  He    WAS    LEARNED,    HE     WAS    CHASTE.     .1.    He    was 

learned,  or,  "  roboi  cath,"  that  is,  a  Catholic, 

11.  He  was  charitable,  .i.  Whole  :  full  of  chanty 
he  all  :  or,  Colum  Cille  used  to  be  boiled  from  charity. 

12.  A  rock  at  victory,  .i.  He  was  a  rock  in  battle  at 
bearing  away  of  victory  from  every  one.  Or,  "  cloth-ond," 
that  is,  a  stone  of  subduing,  for  "ond"  is  a  stone.     A 


50  cmiRd  choluim  chilli. 

cloichi,  ap  pic  ono  cloch  :  pobo  doc  íapum  cloichi  cac 
uilc  Colum  Cille. 

13.  bOl  LGS  LCl'N.  .1.  t)o  epeom  co  cabpao  a  lán- 
lep  Oo  cctc. 

14.  bOl   LeO!?-LeS   Ol^eO.  .t.    l?obo  leop  nole 
paigeo  ae^eou. 

15.  bOl  ObGlO.  .1.  amour  -i.  laino. 

16.  bai  liuasal,  boi  huas  a  bas.  .i.  ba 

popcail  pop  bap  .1.  pop  Oiabul,  no  peccao  :  no,  pob'  uaip 
a  báp  :  no,  popicip  báp  uapa. 

17.  bOl  llGN.  .i.    Lemp  .1.  ailgen. 

is.  boi  La  CRioe  cech  ecNaoa.  .i.  i?obo 

liaig  lepai^che  cpioe  each  ecnaoa  :  no,  pobo  chaimpigche 
Do  peip  cpiDe  cec  ecnaoa  :  o'noi  ap  I150  .1.  cumpi^im. 

19.  ai?  ttiinon  a;ca6  Nacallao.  .1.  aPn 

úapal  no  aicelleo  inn  aingel  oi  a  p'bo  ainm  apcal  :  no, 
"  lap  minon  a^aln  accallaim"  .1.  íapn  acallaim  Dé 
oo-pom  :  ap  íp  éo  minon  amjel  Cpipr  maccDé.  No,  an 
ap  oech  oe  ainglib — ba  menic  oopim  an  accallaim  pioe: 
ba  canaipi  oan  00  accallaim  amgel  a  acallaim  peom. 


20.  ba  aiNmNe  ai9  am  beba.  .1.  Ooicam 

acbar  .1.  00  lugu  oige  acbach  :  ap  ni  caioeo  lino  na 
biao  íp  in  bliaoain  acbach,  ace  1  Sacupno,  no  in  Oom- 
mnuch. 

21.  ba'  blND.  .1.    6á  bino  a  giidi  i[c]  celebpaO. 

22.  ba  ogn  a  cherco  cleircciiechua.  .1. 

"Robo  en  Oi  a  elaonaib  cleipcheclic  :  ap  ba  pui,  ba 
páich,  ba  pile.  No,  pobo  leop  oo  cac  mo  oén-cepc 
cleipcechca  bai  oca,  uc  pacpiciup  oipcir  : 

^enpio  maccan  01  a  pine, 
bio  pui,  bio  paicli,  bio  pile  : 
lnmam  lepbaipe  glan,  ^lé, 
Nao  ebepa  immapbe. 

23.  ba  OO  DOlNlb  DISCRUUaiN.  .1.   6a  anpa 

Oo  ooinib  pqiiiran  a  ^nim  pon.     No,  commao  "  oipcpéic" 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLUM  CILLK.  51 

stone    then   of  the   subduing   of  every   evil    was  Col  urn 
Cille. 

13.  He  was  a  full  benefit,  .t.  He  was,  so  that  he 
used  to  give  his  full  benefit  to  every  one. 

14.  He  was  an  abounding  benefit  of  guests,  .i. 
It  was  much  he  used  to  benefit  guests. 

15.  He  was  avid.  .i.  "  Avidus,"  that  is,  eager. 

16.  He  was  noble,  high  was  his  death,  .i.  He  was 
superior  over  death,  that  is,  over  the  Devil,  or  sin  ;  or,  hia 
death  was  high  ;  or,  he  knew  death  over  him. 

17.  He  was  gentle,  .i.  "Lenis,"  that  is,  gentle. 

18.  He  was  a  physician  of  the  heart  of  every 
sage.  .i.  He  was  a  physician  of  the  benefiting  of  the  heart 
of  every  sage  :  or,  he  was  bound  according  to  the  heart  of 
every  sage  ;  from  that  which  is  "ligo,"  that  is,  I  bind. 

19.  Our  diadem  who  used  to  converse  with  Axal.  ,t. 
Our  noble  who  used  to  converse  with  the  angel,  whose 
name  was  Axal.  Or,  "  iar  mindn  axaln  acallaim"  (after 
the  diadem  of  angels'  conversation),  that  is,  after  conver- 
sation with  God  by  him  :  for  Christ,  Son  of  God,  is  the 
diadem  of  angels.  Or,  what  is  best  of  angels — frequent 
of  number  was  the  conversation  of  these:  second,  accord- 
ingly, to  the  conversation  of  angels  was  his  conversation. 

20.  It  was  abstemiousness  on  account  of  which  he 
died.  .i.  Of  thirst  he  died,  that  is,  from  littleness  of  drink 
he  died  :  for,  he  used  not  to  take  ale  or  food  in  the  year 
he  died,  but  in  Saturday,  or  in  Sunday. 

21.  He  was  melodious,  .i.  Melodious  was  his  voice  at 
celebration. 

22.  His  profession  of  clericship  was  one.  .i.  Cleric- 
ship  was  one  of  his  sciences,  for  he  was  a  sage,  a  prophet, 
and  a  poet.  Or,  abundant  for  every  one  was  the  one  pro- 
fession of  clericship  which  he  had,  as  Patric  said  : 

A  child  will  be  born  of  his  tribe, 

He  will  be  a  sage,  will  be  a  prophet,  will  be  a  poet : 

Beloved  the  pure,  clear  lamp, 

Who  will  not  speak  deceit. 

23.  He  was  to  persons  inscrutable,  .i.  Difficult  for 
persons  was  the  conception   of  his  deeds.     Or,  it  may  be 


52  cnnRd  choluim  chilli. 

bao  chóiji   anD  .1.     Ni  cluinco  pcpeic  Dune  m  bale   in 
DénaD  a  cpabuD  .i.  ip  in  Dicpub,  no  ip  in  Dub-peclep. 


24.  5a  01  N  DO  NOCllUaib.  .1.  lmm  écac. 

25.  ba  DID  DO  bOChUQIb.  .1.  lmmi  biao. 

26.  ba  Nua  Nochesao  each  uroititti. 

01  O  pOUnUCn.  .1.  Cac  cpom-pocac  no  chépao — ba 
amal  niia  leip-peom  pein.  No,  "  ba  rpuimmiu  cac 
[pjouhaig  Dun  in  cepao  nua-pa,"  ap  in  call. 

27.  O  ChOlUm   COSC  UUauh.  .1.  O  Cholum 

nochoipccíp  na  cúarha. 

28.  miao    marc    muNemaR  maNN.   .1. 

Uiagmaic  in  a  muni^m  in  mop-aipmiumj  pin  ím  nem 
Duinn.  Mo,  Dommunem  Dobepchap  aipmiciu  móp  do  Do 
chinD  na[n]  5mm  po.  "TíliaD  maip  "  .1.  imbeD  manna  .1. 
in  maino.  Ip  eD  acbepcip  meicc  lppael  ppi  a  manchu 
.1.  Cf  111D  eft  hoc  mpi  cibup  celepcip  ?  Oommuinimap  iapum 
Dobepcap  apminu  mop  in  bio  nemDa  Do-pom. 

29.  Nooseilsispe   crisu    euer?    0I15- 

T6CU.  .1.  Nongeba  pom  Cpipc  in  a  ^eilpine  .1.  in  a 
muncepap  euep  na  Dligchechu  [.1.]  ecep  aingliu  ocup 
apch-am^liu. 

30.  URias  Na  ciaNa  couaislia.  .1.  Upip 

in  pé  cian  pobui  ic  uaipleD  ipop  .1.  oc  cpabuD. 


[capiuulum  un.] 

DE  PRUDENTIA  EIUS  ET  LECTIONE  ET  SAPIENT1A. 

1.  eR^Naio  sui  siac'c  slichu  ceuRaiR. 

,i.  Ip  epjna  in  pin  popiacu  plicc  na  cecpi  pinacr. 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  53 

"discreit"  (cryless)  is  what  is  right  in  it:  that  is,  the 
place  in  which  he  used  to  make  his  devotion  used  not  to 
hear  the  cry  of  a  person  :  that  is,  in  the  desert,  or  in  the 
Black  Church. 

24.  He  was  a  shelter  to  naked.  .1.  In  regard  to 
clothing. 

25.  He  was  a  consolation  to  poor.  .1.  In  regard  to 
food. 

26.  It  was  [as]  new  he  used  to  suffer  every 
heaviness  from  attack.  .1.  Every  heavy  attack  he  used 
to  suffer — that  was  like  a  new  one  with  him  :  or,  "  heavier 
to  us  than  every  attack  is  this  new  suffering,"  says  the 
Blind  (that  is,  Dalian). 

27.  From  Colum  discipline  of  territories.  .1.  From 
Colum  the  territories  used  to  be  disciplined. 

28.  Let  us  hope  great  dignity,  manna.  .1.  Let  us  go 
to  his  trust,  the  great  reverent  one  about  heaven  for  us. 
Or,  we  hope  great  honour  will  be  given  to  him  on  the 
head  of  these  deeds.  "  Miad  mair,"  that  is,  an  abundance 
of  "raann,"  that  is,  the  manna.  It  is  what  the  children  of 
Israel  used  to  say  to  their  monks  :  "  What  is  this  but 
celestial  food  ?"  We  hope  therefore  the  great  honour  of 
the  celestial  food  will  be  given  to  him. 

29.  Christ  has  associated  him  among  the  righteous, 
j.  Christ  will  receive  him  into  his  association  that  is,  into 
his  familyship  among  the  righteous,  [that  is]  among  angels 
and  archangels. 

30.  Through  the  long  periods  he  was  humbling 
himself.  .1.  Through  the  long  time  he  was  at  humbling 
here,  that  is,  at  devotion. 


.1. 


[CHAPTER   VII.] 

OF  ins  prudence,  and  reading,  and  wisdom. 

1.  A  sage  the  doctor,  who  reached  the  path  of  foue. 
Sage  is  the  doctor  who  reached  the  path  of  the  four 


wisdoms. 


54  cimrcci  choluim  chilli. 

2.  coirluio  la  oocecul  oo  Nim-iachi 

lCtRN  a  CROlCh.  .1.  If  amlaio  oolluio  reom  co  iach 
nime  íapn  a  chepao  l  pop  co  cerul  minncipe  nime  "| 
ralman  ;  no  i  ci[n]-claip  aingel  nime. 

3.  cec  cell  cusuoio  cono  po   051 

Oippr?lNO.  .1.  Rochoemepcap  cec  cell  po  chomlain- 
ruip  cuinm  cailij  opppino.  No  cec  cell  cop  a  raec  cono 
mapa  :  "]   cmcech  ap  écinuec  ano. 

4.  Oil  NV  NI  lDai.  .1.  Ip  oil  in  cpen-pep  lie,  -| 
no  con  íolacc    oojnir.       No,  oil  am   Dognic  oo    maicli, 

1  "a  NicteLLascaR  cloeN-chleir?.  .1.  Ni  aiieo 

na  cliapa  ínoli^ceéa. 

6.  00[S]ellai?pO  lNTTlUllC..i.Nope5aOeacpo 
innib  an  uilc  :  no,  nocaioleo  eac  co  cappao  a  phennaic 
cóip  pop  each.  No,  ba  gabail  ella  oo'no  napul  na 
cloen-cliapa,  com  bo  maich  noimmuilgeo  cpecim  poppu. 
No,  nopbligeo  oo  pallmiO  .1.  Do  oenam  pallaino. 

7.  ni  poex,  ni  puac'UNao  hercis.  .1.  ní 

popoio  nech  uao  oo  oenam  uilc,  -]  m  popuac[r]nai5  pein 
na  hepip  .1.  ni  pabi  pip  compaip[e]nec  aicce  .1.  hepep  :  no 
ni  poaplaig  hepip  pop  nee. 

8.  ni  aeNeo  nv  Na'  bui  it?  i?ecc  ot^. 

.1.  Níoénao  ni  00  aim  ace  íapn  [oJipjecaiD  Oé  .1.  nameo 
in  oomnaigib.  No,  ni  aipoepcaigeo  ni  ace  00  peip  pia^la 
Oé. 

9.  NaNO  GUSa  baS  blUll  .1.  ap  nao  eeao,no  na 
bao  ipeao  00  bap  epia  bichu,  no  íp  in  bich. 

10.  beo  a  aiNm  .1.  iFor. 

11.  beo    a   aNUaiTTI    .1.    Oamm   rail. 

12.  ao    rnibuo   poorcuair?  po  reechu 

NOeb  .1.  Popupepcap  com  beich  oo  po  oipseraio  na 
noeb.  No,  ap  a  poc  poopubapraip  po  pechc  noeb — íp 
aipi  ap  beo  a  ainm    ipop :    -]    a    amm    call  ap  immeo 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  55 

2.  He  went  with  music  to  heaven-land  after  his 
cross.  .1.  It  is  how  he  went  to  the  land  of  heaven  after 
his  suffering  here,  with  the  music  of  the  family  of  heaven 
and  of  earth  :  or,  in  the  chief-choir  of  the  angels  of 
heaven. 

3.  Guardian  of  a  hundred-churches  under  full- 
ness of  waves  of  offering,  .i.  He  guarded  a  hundred 
churches  under  the  completeness  of  the  wave  of  the  chalice 
of  offering.  Or,  a  hundred  churches  to  which  goes  sea's 
wave  ;  and  finite  for  indefinite  in  it. 

4.  A  mighty  champion  not  by  an  idol,  ,i.  He  is  a 
mighty  champion,  and  not  with  idolism  he  works  :  or, 
mighty  what  he  works  of  good,  and  not  idolism. 

5.  He  brought  not  up  an  iniquitous  company,  .i. 
He  used  not  nourish  the  unrighteous  companies. 

6.  He  brought  them  up  under  milk.  .i.  He  used  to 
view  them  under  the  meanings  of  their  evil :  or,  he  used 
to  try  them  that  he  might  give  his  fit  penance  on 
each.  Or,  a  catching  of  a  flock  for  the  noble  one  was 
the  unjust  companies,  so  that  it  might  be  well  he  would 
milk  belief  upon  them.  Or,  he  used  to  milk  them  for  salt, 
that  is,  for  the  making  of  salt. 

7.  He  supported  not,  he  attacked  not  heresy,  .t. 
He  sent  not  any  from  him  for  the  doing  of  evil,  and  he 
attacked  not  himself  any  heresy  ;  that  is,  he  had  not  an 
erroneous  knowledge,  that  is,  heresy.  Or,  he  persuaded 
not  heresy  upon  any  one. 

8.  He  took  no  amusement  which  was  not  in  'the 
King's  Law.  .i.  He  used  to  make  nothing  of  amusement 
but  according  to  God's  law:  that  is,  he  used  to  take  amuse- 
ment on  Sundays.  Or,  he  used  to  make  nothing  distin- 
guished but  according  to  God's  rule. 

9.  That  he  might  not  get  eternal  death.  ,t.  That 
he  might  not  get,  or  that  there  might  not  be  destined  for 
him  death  for  ever,  or  in  the  world. 

10.  Living  his  name.     ,i.  Here. 

11.  Living  his  soul.     ,i.  His  soul  beyond. 

12.  It  is  a  great  number  that  he  prepared  under 
Saints'  Law.  .i.  He  procured  that  it  (the  number)  might 
be  for  him  under  the  law  of  the  saints.  Or,  on  account  of 
the  length  of  time  he  stayed  under  the  law  of  the  saints — 


56  curma  cholunn  chilli. 

poopuaip  .1.  ap  a  pou:   ap  pic  ímmeD  [imoa  ?]  .1.  poca, 
uc  Di;cic  poeca  : 


lp  ímcepc 
Cop  inc  abcan  oc  ímchecc  : 
lnc  aboc  o  l?up  caem  Chap, 
No  con  é  a  caeb  ap  imoa  .1.  poca. 

13.  pr?isber?u  cinu  a  toeb  .1.  r?opichbpúi 

co  ná  p'  bo  chiuc  a  cóeb.     "  Ppipbepc  cinu  a  choeb"   .1. 
"  pomaipnepcap,"  uc  Di^ic  poeca  : 

Nee  ppipbepc  a  ci^epna, 
Ni  p'ba  lie  a  libepna, 
Cop  pucaic  namaic  a  cheno, 
CI  ^abaip  íp  a  oub-ceno 

.1.  a  ech  ocup  a  clameb:  ap  "  col?;"  ocup  "  t>ub-cent)"  duo 
nomina  glaon  punc  íp  inc  [pjen-^oeoilg,  uc  oi;nc  poeca  : 


Ni  p'  [b]  pop  bpaigcib  Dam  na  bo 
Ppomcaip  C0I5  mo  puanaoó: 
pop  bpaigcib  pig  poceipo  peic 
Ínoi  Oub-ceno  oc  Oiapmaic. 

14.  CUll  a  CUIPp  CUlllSlUS  .».  Rocoillepcayi 

colli  a  cuipp  .1.  íp  e  a  milliut)  a  nemoenam. 

15.  CUlLL  Q  NGOIU  .1.  TCochuillepcap  in  gainm,  uc 
poeca  Di^ric  : 

In  TTiaich  lib 
In  can  apbepap  pip  ppib  ? 
Qppai^ep  pepc  paigic  peoic: 
Ni  geib  neoic  ppi  nee  ap  oil 

ig.  Nao  in  mace  mace  hui  chuiND  .1. 

Cuic  in  mac?  Nm.  em:  mac  liui  Cluiino.i.ColiimCille.  No 


THE  A.MRA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  57 

it  is  on  that  account  that  his  name  is  living  here  :  and  his 
soul  beyond  on  account  of  the  number  that  he  prepared 
.1.  on  account  of  its  length:  for  "  immed"  means,  namely, 
"  long"  as  the  poet  has  said : 

Very  thin  is 
The  dwarflet's  leg  a-walking — 
The  dwarf  from  beautiful  Ross  Cas, 
By  no  means  is  it  his  side  that  is  long.  .i.  "  fota." 

13.  Decay  attacked  his  side.  .i.  Great  running 
of  bowels  until  his  side  was  not  thick.  "  Frisbert  tinu  a 
thoeb,"  that  is,  "  romairnestar"  (betrayed),  as  the  poet  has 
said  : 

One  who  betrayed  his  lord, 
His  offspring  were  not  numerous, 
Until  enemies  carried  off  his  head, 
His  "grey"  and  his  "black-head." 

That  is,  his  horse  and  his  sword  :  for  "  colg"  and  "  dub- 
cend"  are  two  names  for  a  sicord'm  the  old  Goedilic,  as  the 
poet  has  said  : 

Not  on  throats  of  oxen  or  cows 
The  sword  of  my  hero  is  proven  : 
On  throats  of  kings  it  darts  power — 
This  same  black-head  with  Diarmait. 

14.  The  desire  of  his  body  he  destroyed,  .i.  He  de- 
stroyed the  desire  of  his  body,  that  is,  its  destruction  is  its 
non-performance. 

15.  He  destroyed  his  fight,  .i.  He  destroyed  the 
power,  as  the  poet  said  : 

Are  ye  pleased, 
When  the  truth  is  spoken  to  you  ? 
Who  follows  love  treasures  follow  ; 
He  takes  not  fight  against  one  who  is  dear. 

15.    Is  NOT   THE   SON    THE    SON   OF   THE  DESCENDANT    OF 

Cond  ?    .1.    Whose  is  the  son  ?     Not  difficult  indeed:  the 

H 


58  amna  cliotuini  chilli. 

ni  bu  in  meic  hui  Chuino  gamni,  no  neoci.  No,  nao  maicc 
aonacc  maicc  hui  ceo  chuino  .1.  ni  bin  in  maicc  acr  bap 
popbfe  .1.  maicc  hui  cheo  chuino  cic  .1.  ni  bin  lajimua  ace 
ba  hua  Cumo  :  qnapi  oipnpper,  "  bá  poep-clano  cia  popo- 
oomaip    mó]i  o  Oia." 


17.  CUll  0611T1  DG  eOU.  .1.  Ni  oepna  r.e  eoc  ni 
nooigbao  cuil  .1.  o'noi  ap  Demo  .1.  oigbaim.  No  "  oe  póc" 
ap  choip  ano  .1.  oe  puachcain. 

18.  CUllOeim  OG  pORlTlUC.  .1.  Ni  oepna  oe 
popmuc  ni  oigbap  cuil. 

19.  po  Lib  Lige,  a  ai,  ap  cecli  saet 

SRGUa  SINa  .1.  lp  maich  lib,  a  eolchu,  a  lige 
Coluim  Cille,  ap  noicao  a  opucc  no  a  up  ap  cachn 
galap,  nojjpjpaecnaigeo  paip  na  pina  .1.  cac  pin  a 
[pjpache. 

20.  ri?ia  chuaiuli  íolaig  ooruitigoin 

RGUU.  .1.  1c  oul  oó  cpia  chuain  nan  ioal  popinnao  am 
biboanap  ppi  Oia,  co  cabpao  poppu  epecim  Oo  Oia: 
-]  o'noi  ap  "peacup"  ará  pécu. 

21.  ai?  CRGOla  CaiPpOU.  .1.  lpameoonac 

in  mep-pa  poppu  ap  in  cappac  cpeoal  a  cuipp  ;  no,  ap  a 
cleipchechc  popec  a  caippciu. 

22.  CaUll    Sl'R    SOlCtl    piR:    piCllGO  pRl 

COLUaiTTl.  .1.  Ropo  purhain  a  charh  ppi  Demon  -| 
Oomun,  "  poich  pip"  .1.  popecepcap  pipinne  :  "  picheo  ppi 
culuain  ;"  .1.  nopuaccnaigeo  ppi  á  cholaino  ipop. 

23.  co  Na   Rega  in   Ri'5-macc  por 

OG'OG  OG'.  .1.  No  co  paga  mac  in  ]v%  .1.  Colum  Cille, 
pop  mo  apa  epnail  pil  ic  Oia. 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  50 

son  of  the  grandson  of  Cond,  that  is,  Colum  Cille.  Or 
power  or  fighting  was  not  the  part  of  the  son  of  the  grand- 
son of  Cond  :  or,  was  not  the  characteristic  of  the  son  who 
was  buried  that  of  the  son  of  the  grandson  of  Cond  :  that 
is,  there  belonged  not  to  the  son  but  a  perfect  death,  that 
is,  to  the  son  of  the  grandson  even  of  Cond  indeed  :  that 
is,  he  was  not  a  great  grandson  but  he  was  a  grandson 
of  Cond.  As  if  he  had  said,  "  he  was  a  noble  offspring, 
though  he  suffered  much  from  God." 

17-  He  profaned  nought  about  jealousy.  .1.  He  did 
nothing  about  jealousy  which  would  take  away  pro- 
fanity :  from  that  which  is  "demo,"  that  is,  "  I  take  away." 
Or,  "  de  fot"  is  that  which  is  right  in  it,  that  is,  "  about 
aggression." 

CO 

18.  He  profaned  nought  about  envy.  .1.  He  did  no- 
thing about  envy  which  takes  away  profanity. 

19.  Good  in  your  estimation  (his)  grave,  o  sages, 
against  every  sickness  of  course  of  seasons.  .1.  "Good 
in  your  estimation,  0  learned,  is  the  grave  of  Colum 
Cille,"  for  its  dew  or  its  clay  used  to  heal  against  every 
disease  which  the  course  of  the  seasons  would  extend,  that 
is,  every  season  its  courses. 

20.  Through  an  idolatrous  territory  he  meditated 
criminality.  .1.  When  going  through  the  territory  of 
the  idols  he  would  know  their  criminality  towards  God, 
so  that  he  used  to  give  on  them  belief  in  God:  and  from 
what  is  "  reatus,"  retu  is. 

21.  For  the  sake  of  religious  chariots.  .1.  It  is 
why  he  gave  this  judgment  on  them  for  the  religious 
chariot  of  their  body  :  or,  for  his  clericship  he  exchanged 
his  chariots. 

22.  With  continuous  battle  he  sought  truth:  he 
used  to  fight  against  flesh.  .1.  His  battle  was  con- 
tinual against  Devil  and  World  :  "  soich  fir,"  that  is,  he 
sought  truth  :  "  fiched  fri  culuain  :"  he  used  to  commit 
aggression  against  his  flesh  here. 

23.  That  the  king-son  might  not  come  on  the  se- 
condary of  God.  .1.  By  no  means  will  the  son  of  the  king, 
that  is,  Colum  Cille,  come  on  the  second  division  which  is 
with  God. 


60  ainrca  choluim  chilli. 

24.  in  achguuh,  in  auhpeps.  .1.   ip  m 

^uchn  aigchiDe  .i.  "Ice,  maleDicci:"  no,  "in  ac^uc"  .1.  ip 
in  511c  pil  aichle  gocha  aile  perm.  "  In  achpepp"  .1.  m  ba 
if  in  pepp  cánaipe  pasap,  ace  ip  in  céc  pepp  .1.  "  Uenice, 
beneDicci,  "]c." 

25.  aorcaONaclic   rciaN   a'es,  man  a 

imNlUTCU.  .1.  Poaonacc  piapiu  cípaD  áep  Do  .1. 
piapiu  pobo  penoip  -|  pob'  amnepcac  :  ap  íc  pé  bliaona 
.Ipcpc.  pobo  lán  De. 

2Q.  arc  ippui?ND  in  albu  o'ttiun  .1.  ap 

omun  íppipno  DochuaiD  in  aibain. 
hue  upque  pe^cum  [capiculum.J 


[capiuuluni  un.] 

IDEM  DE  COMMENDATIONE  LAUDIS  EIUS  REGE  NEPOTUM  NEIL. 


1.  aeo  auNoi    ule   ollooiNe  orcom. 

CnGUal.  .1.  aeo,  mac  ammepech,  Dopac  .un.  cumala 
oo'n  Dull  aip  ainm  Do  chabaipe  ip  in  molao-pa  Choluim 
Chilli  :  "j  poiaicnepcap  aeo  Do'n  Oull  commaD  Dpumiu 
cec  cecal  in  cecal-pa. 

2.  pechU  apOP  Nia  NCTTl.  .1.  In  can  nope5aD 
in  cpen-pep  .1.  Colum  Cille  ;  ap  pic  ma  .1.  cpen-pep,  uc 
Dicicup  : 


piDcell  CpemchainD  NiaiD  Náip 
Nipbeip  mac  bee  do  leiccun: 
lech  a  poipne  d'  óp  buiDe, 
ai  leic  aile  d'  [pjinopuine. 
Oén-pep  Di  a  paipino  namma 
NocpenaD  pe  clánamna. 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  61 

24.  In  second  voice,  in  second  verse.  .1.  In 
the  fearful  voice,  namely,  "  Go  ye  cursed  :"  or,  "  in 
athguth,"  that  is,  in  the  voice  which  is  after  another  voice 
before  it.  "  In  athfers,"  that  is,  it  will  not  be  in  the  second 
verse  he  will  come,  but  in  the  first  verse,  that  is,  "  Come, 
ye  blessed,  and  so  forth." 

25.  He  was  buried  before  age,  before  his  weak- 
ness. .1.  He  was  buried  before  his  age  came  to  him  ;  that 
is,  before  he  was  a  senior,  and  was  strengthless  ;  for  it 
is  six  years  [and]  seventy  that  was  full  from  it  [the 
age]. 

26.  On  hell  in  Alba  a  terror.  .1.  For  terror  of 
hell  he  went  to  Alba. 

Hither  so  far  the  sixth  [chapter.] 


[CHAPTER  VII.] 

OF    THE  COMMENDATION  OF  HIS  PRAISE  BY  THE  KING  OF  THE 
UI    NEIL. 

1.  AED  LAID  DOWN  OF  ALL  MIGHTY-POEMS  A  POET-SONG. 

.1.  Aed,  son  of  Ainmere,  who  gave  seven  cumals  for  his 
name  to  be  given  in  this  praising  of  Colum  Cille :  and 
Aed  laid  down  to  the  blind  [Dalian]  that  more  poetic 
than  any  song  this  song  should  be. 

2.  THE     TIME      WHEN     THE      CHAMPION     WOULD     REACH 

heaven.  .1.  The  time  when  the  champion  would  come, 
that  is,  Colum  Cille;  for  "nia"  means,  namely,  a  champion, 
as  is  said: 

The  chess-board  of  Cremthand  Brave  Champion — 
A  small  child  carries  it  not  by  little  elbow: 
Half  of  its  party  of  yellow  gold, 
The  other  half  offindruine: 
One  man  of  its  party  alone 
Would  purchase  six  couples. 


62  cnrma  choluirn  chilli. 

3.  Nl  QNOlL.  .1.  Ni  p'bo  nemDil  la  Oia  hé,  accpobo 
oil. 

4.  Nl  SUCdl.  .1.  Ni  p[b']  bee  lie.    No,  "m  hanoil"  .i. 
ni  poinoil  -]  ni  po[p]uai5  ni  ban  puail. 

5.  Nl   SUaiJ.  .1.  Ni  popupuai5. 

6.  ni    Nia    Nao    Nua     ppi    couach 

CONUQluL.  .1.  Ni  cpén-pep  nan  nua  inpo  ppi  cocac 
.1.  ppi  ^linmguD  cliocais  Conaill  .1.  ecep  cuacha  Conaill 
apmeoon :  no,  ic  oenam  a  cocai5  ppi  cuachaib  ailib 
Oianechcaip.  No,  "  ni  nua"  .1.  no  con[p]uil  ocuno  in  cpen- 
pep  [pjuagep  ni  nua  ppi  cocac  Conaill  :  -]  "nipuais" 
copach  ria  ceille  pic.  No,  nan  .1.  ni  pil  ocunD  in  cpen- 
pep  achnuigep  cocac  Conaill  :  «'  ni  ma"  in  copach  pic. 
"  Ppi  cocac  Conuail"  .1.  ic  pic  ecep  copp  -j  anmam. 


7.  cluiosius  boub  beolu   beNNacliu 

bauai?  IC  UOl  UOlL  Rig.  .1.  Rocloi  beólu  innam 
bopb  bácap  ic  apD-pí^  Uói,  cio  eD  bao  ail  léo  ole  Do 
páo,  conio  bennachao  D05T1ÍCIP,  11c  puic  balam. 

8.  O'  ooNib  oennuecua,  oc  oeo  oes- 

SGSUQR.  .1.  O'  Doinib  poDi^baD,  ic  Oia  cappapap. 

9.  ar?  aobuo,  ai?  ctni  auRONNai  aR- 
5CIRU  glaN  hua  hi  cactiaiR  coNuail.  .1. 

Qp  a  ainmni  -|  ap  a  aim  poepnai  sapen  5lan  hU'a 
Conuaill  inn  a  chacip.  No,  hua  pom  CoDiuip  moip  do 
Lai5mb  ll  lech  o  machaip.  No,  ap  aobchlop  ocup  ap 
aim  poepnai  in  5apc  5lan  -]c  :  ap  ní  oénao  pom  pein,  uc 
paciunc  hipocpicae. 

10.  hie  uobuo  caiN-sRUiuh  sceo  ma 

51SU1R  lTlUlNUGRe.  "hicunbuo"  .1.  "  nomen  oolo- 
pip"  .1.  in5iu  pechi.  Robo  chain  iapum  in  ppuich  co  na 
coimleo  ma5pe,  co  na  pa^bao  in  5alap  pein  hé  :  ocup 
Dan  pobo  mai5ipcip  mumcepe  imm  on  cécna.  No,  "in5u 
pechi"    .1.  íp  ipeccain  pocho5tnain5  a  pechi  lie  ap  írnmeo 


THE  AMEA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  63 

3.  Not  undear.  .1.  He  was  not  unclear  with  God,  but 
he  was  dear. 

4.  Not  trifling.  .1.  He  was  not  small.  Or,  "  ni  handil," 
that  is,  he  prepared  not,  and  he  knitted  not  anything  which 
was  trifling. 

5.  Not  prosperous.  .1.  He  did  not  plan  well. 

6.  The  champion  is  not  who  bound  new  things  for 
the  alliance  of  con  all.  .1.  The  champion  of  the  new 
things  is  not  here  for  alliance,  that  is,  for  confirming  the 
alliance  of  Conall,  that  is,  between  the  territories  of 
Conall  within  ;  or,  at  making  their  alliance  with  other 
territories  externally.  Or,  "  ni  nua"  (a  new  thing),  that 
is,  there  is  not  with  us  the  champion,  who  will  knit  a  new 
thing  for  the  alliance  of  Conall  ;  and  "  ni  suaig,''  is  the  be- 
ginning of  the  sense  thus.  Or  again,  that  is,  there  is  not 
with  us  the  champion  who  will  renew  the  alliance  of 
Conall  :  "  ni  nia"  is  the  beginning  thus.  "  Fri  cotach 
Conuail,"  that  is,  at  peace  between  body  and  soul. 

7.  He  subdued  with  a  blessing  the  mouths  of  the 
fierce  who  were  at  toy  with  king's  will.  .1.  he 
subdued  the  mouths  of  the  fierce,  who  were  with  the  high 
king  of  Toi,  though  it  was  what  they  wished — to  say  evil, 
so  that  it  is  a  blessing  they  used  to  make,  as  Balam  was. 

8.  From  men  withdrawn  with  god  he  has  taken  his 
seat.  .1.  From  men  he  was  taken  away  ;  with  God  he 
has  rested. 

9.  For  abstemiousness,  for  fasting,  the  descendant 

BESTOWED    PURE     GREAT     HOSPITALITY    IN     [the]     CITY     OF 

conall.  .1.  On  account  of  his  abstemiousness,  and  on  ac- 
count of  his  fasting,  the  descendant  of  Conall  distributed 
pure  hospitality  in  his  city.  Or,  a  descendant  of  Cathair 
Mor  was  he  in  the  side  from  mother.  Or,  for  pleasure,  and 
for  amusement  he  distributed  the  pure  hospitality,  and  so 
forth  :  for  he  used  not  to  do  that,  as  the  hypocrites  do. 

10.  At  deciding  a  fair  senior  and  a  master  of 
family.  .1.  "  Hie  udbud,"  that  is,  a  name  of  a  disease,  that 
is,  "tightness  of  skin."  The  senior  was  accordingly  fair, 
so  that  he  used  not  to  eat  fish  lest  that  disease  should 
seize  him  :  and  likewise  he  was  master  of  a  family  about 
the  same  matter.  Or,  "tightness  of  skin,''  that  is,  it  is 
hardly  his  skin  surrounded  him  on  account  of  the  abund- 


64  cmiKa  cliolunii  chilli. 

a  Dan  ;  no  "ic  unhim"  .1.  ic  pechuguo  aobb  ic  éipniuD 
chepc  na  canoni  :  No  "ic  uobuD"  .1.  ic  Oibout)  [na]n  50a  : 
no,  "ic  uobuD"  .1.  ic  poibaouo  .1.  ic  baouD  cuipp  Cpipc 
po  a  [p]uil  ic  opppiunt)  :  no,  ainm  do  boich  légíno,  no 
ppoppn  loci  1  Ceneol  Chonaill. 


11.  prai  aN^el  Nacallasuap  :  augaill 

5RamiTiaUai5  JPeiC.  .1.  Oo5mo  tunnel  d'  accal- 
laim,  ocup  popoglaino  gpammacaig  amal  ^pecn.  No, 
noaicilleo  jjpammacacDu  ocup  JJl^cu.* 

12.  soerc  sech  uuaiuli  sin  liiNeoim.  .1. 

Saep  nopechcep  pechc  cuacha,  ~|  cinncech  ap  écinncec 
ano,  nó  coic  cuaca  GpenD  "|  di  chuaich  in  Qlbain.  No, 
nopechcea  peccap-cuaich  :  no,  ba  paep  popechcaip 
pijunoe  íp  in  cip  chuaiD.  "Sin  inecum"  .1.  ip  amlaio  pin 
DogniD  a  paipneip,  ap  pic  pin  .1.  amlaio,  uc  0i;cic  poeca  : 


lpin  ceic  in  mal  'm  a  cech  pig, 
In  Dermic  cen  cappaip  epic, 
Con  buib-ciuno  m  a  oag-pcip. 


.1.  cip  (.1.  lam)  onoi  ap  "capio." 

13.  mac  peolinnO[e]  pich  uucneti  pinn 

OUU.  .1.  TTlac  peblimio[e]  01a  pichcip,  no  Dia  pognacip 
in  pice  cuach  :  ~|  cinocech  ap  ecinncech  ann  beop  :  no, 
Di  a  pich  in  cip  cuaig.  "  pinn  oiuc"  .1.  pmem  munoi  ;  no, 
popicip  epich  1  comlamep  in  popcecail,  no  a  bap  pen. 
No,  pin  ineDim  mac  pet>limin[e].  pmo  .1.  ip  é  inoipim 
amlaio  pin  mac  piDilmio[e]  ap  in  pich  acuaig. 


14.  ni  uoiches  DO'N  bich  ba  sir  do 

CllROlCÍie  CU1T1N1.  .1.  Ni  ma  cuocaiD  pop  bicb  die 
ap  jjaipoe  a  ampipe  :  pobo  cpucham  00  cuimniiiguo 
cpoicbe  pop  a  copp.  No,  ni  can  céppao  oocuaio  oo'n 
bich  do  luchc  U01  :  no,  ni  pobo  coi  do  luchc  in  becha  in 


*  With  this  word  ends  imperfectly  the  copy  in  Lebor  na  hUidre  :  the  rcmaindei 
from  Lebor  Brecc. — [Ed] 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  65 

ance  of  his  qualifications  :  or,  "  ic  udbud,''  that  is,  at  the 
perceiving  of  difficulties  in  explaining  the  questions  of  the 
Canon.  Or,  "  ic  udbud,"  that  is,  at  destroying  the  false- 
hoods :  or,  "  ic  udbud,"  that  is,  at  submerging,  that  is,  at 
dipping  the  body  of  Christ  under  his  blood  at  Mass  :  or,  it 
is  a  name  for  a  reading  hut,  or  of  a  special  place  in  Cenel 
Chonaill. 

11.  To      AN     ANGEL     HE      USED     TO    SPEAK:    HE    SPOKE 

Greek  grammar.  .1.  He  used  to  address  an  angel,  and 
he  learned  grammar  like  Greeks.  Or,  he  used  to  address 
grammarians  and  Greeks. 

12.  A  NOBLE  ONE  WHO  SOUGHT  NORTH  :  THIS  ONE  I  RE- 
LATE. .1.  A  noble  one  who  sought  seven  territories,  and  de- 
finite for  indefinite  in  it.  or,  the  five  territories  of  Eriu, 
and  two  territories  in  Alba.  Or,  he  used  to  seek  extern 
territory:  or,  it  was  noble  he  followed  truth  in  the  north 
territory.  "  Sin  inetum,"  .1.  it  is  thus  he  makes  its  narra- 
tion, for  "  sin"  means,  namely,  thus,  as  the  poet  said  : 

In  this  manner  the  chief  goes  round  his  house  of  a 

king, 
In  good  raiment  without  a  storm-shower  through  it, 
With  his  black  head  (sword)  in  his  good  grip  (in 
his  right  hand). 
That  is,  "cip,"  (hand)  from  the  word  capio  (I  hold). 

1  3.    FeDILMID's  SON  IN  THE  NORTH  TERRITORY  KNEW  END. 

.1.  The  son  of  Fedilmid  for  whom  used  to  fight,  or  whom 
used  to  serve  the  twenty  territories :  and  definite  for  inde- 
finite in  it  still :  or  from  whom  the  north  country  boiled. 
"  Finn  ouit,"  that  is,  the  end  of  the  world  :  or  he  knew  the 
end  and  completeness  of  the  doctrine,  or  his  own  death. 
Or,  thus  I  relate  the  son  of  Fedilmid.  "  Find":  that  is,  it  is 
he  I  relate  thus — the  son  of  Fedilmid  from  the  territory 
in  the  north. 

14.  There  went  not  from  the  world  [one]  who 
was  more  continual  for  cross's  remembrance.  .1.  not 
well  he  came  on  this  world  on  account  of  the  shortness  of  his 
time  :  he  was  everlasting  for  the  remembering  of  a  cross 
on  his  body.  Or,  not  without  suffering  he  went  from  the 
world  for  the  people  of  Tay:  or,  there  was  not  silence  for 
the  people  of  the  world,  when  he  suffered.     Or,  there  came 

1 


66  ciirma  chotuim  chilli. 

ran  pochepaip  pium.  No,  m  ranic  Do'n  bich  hille  biD 
puchaine  do  cuimniu^uD  cpochi  Cpipc. 

is.  coNpi^  pi^Lesuap  o  ^Nim  5I1N- 

DGSUQft.  .1.  lnni  nopi^eD,  no  nopuaiDeo,  no  nopegao 
o  pigill  impaice  do  Denam,  no  noglinDeao  o  5mm:  no, 
nogbnDig  o  5mm  quoD  ppeDicapec  uepbo,  ur  Dicicup  : 
"lmpleuic  paccip  cfuoo  ppeDicauic  uepbip:"  ~|  Dan 
copegaD  pi^ill  do  Denam  .1.  Da  cec  Deac  plechcain. 

16.  coNseiN  oe  561NN  cin  hua  an?r, 

N1S  NClll  CO  neur.  .1.  Co  po5ein  oe  pin  co  n'ba 
$ein  opDnije  he.  No,  po^enaip  geinn  an  De  .1.  hua 
Ctipc  mic  Cuino  epme,  no  hua  Neill.  No,  gein  pip 
pogenip  De :  ^ein  eipDaipc,  pacmap,  "  Concept:"  [recte 
co  nepc]  .1.  pobo  nepcmap.  No,  "nipneill  co  nipc"  .1. 
m  ppi  nepcaib  clainm  Neill  DobepeaD  coeb,  ace  ppia 
nepcu  m  Spipuca  noeib.  No  pic  :  "hua  Qipc  nip  Neill 
co  nipc"  .1.  ni  a  nipc  Qipc  no  Neill  nobagao,  cia  p'ba 
paep-chlano. 


17.  Nau  puich  peclrc  01  am  bacharc. 

.1.  Ni  Depna  puachcain  in  buo  chóip  a  bap  Di  am 
baD  he  pein  nobeci  do  chena  :  no,  ni  Depna  puachcain 
pechc  acbach  .1.  ni  oc  mapbaD  neich  ele  acbach. 

18.  bUlCh  bftON  CCRO  CUINO  OUl  DO 
OPUlb  TTieUl  maiUh.  .1.  ftobpip  bpon-cach  pop 
ChonD  .1.  Lech  CuinD  con  a  elaDain  ap  Dul  Do  Col. 
Cilli  do  chaipippin  uamib  :  no,  pobui  uch  -|  bpon  hi 
ceipD  ChuinD  .1.  in  elaDain,  no  in  écpi  Chuino  :  no 
pobui  bpippeo  1  bpon  hi  cacaip  ChuinD  Do'n  Dpuib 
pobi  pop  Colum  Cilli  Dian  oediaio  anunD  :  no,  Do'n 
bpon  1  coippe  came  hil  leich  CuinD  íapn  éc  Column 
Cilli.  "  TDeci  maich"  .1.  íp  mop  meic  in  machiupa 
bin  Do  a  rpuib  bui  paip. 


19.  maC-aiNíTl  CPUlChC.  .1.  Oopac  ainm  do 
chpoich  :  no  mac  pip  buD  chumain  ainmm  chpoiche 
Cpipc  :  no,  íp  aip-ainim  chpóm  DuinD  in  mac  pochep  anD. 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  67 

not  to  the  world  hither  [one]  who  was  more  everlasting  for 

the  remembering  of  the  cross  of  Christ.  7-»       / ,    i 

15.  The  conweb  he   figulated   from  deed  he  fol-      XihQ^iK 
lowed  .1.  The  thing  he  used  to  weave,  or  he  used  to  sow,  or      ^tujC^n^ 
he  used  to  view  from  figulation,  he  used  to  meditate  to  do,       .     ^^^  J 
or  he  used  to  follow  from  deed :  or,  he  illustrated  from  deed  •  C**1* 
what  he  would  preach  in  word  ;  as  is  said  :  "he  fulfilled  in 
deeds  what  he  preached  in  words,"  and  also  he  used  to  view 
to  make  figulation,  that  is,  twelve  thousand  prostrations. 

16.  So  THAT  THERE  SPRUNG  FROM  IT  A  NOBLE  OFFSPRING, 
A  DESCENDANT  OF  ÁRT,    NOT  OF    NlALL  WITH  STRENGTH.     .1. 

So  that  there  sprung  from  that  that  he  was  an  illustrious 
offspring.  Or,  an  illustrious  offspring  was  born  from  it,  that 
is,  a  descendant  of  Art,  son  of  Cond,  was  he  ;  or  a  descendant 
of  Niall.  Or,  a  true  offspring  was  born  from  it  ;  an  off- 
spring celebrated,  full  of  grace.  "Concert  [recte,  co  nert], 
that  is,  he  was  strong.  Or,  "  nis  Neill  co  nirt,"  that  is, 
not  with  the  powers  of  the  Clanna  Neill  he  used  to  side, 
but  with  the  powers  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Or,  thus:  "  Hua 
Airt  nis  Neill  co  neirt"  .1.  not  from  the  power  of  Art  or  of 
Niall  he  used  to  boast,  though  he  was  a  noble  offspring. 

17.  Who  committed  not  an  injury  for  which  one 
dies.  .1.  He  committed  not  an  injury  for  which  his  death 
would  be  just,  if  it  were  itself  that  were  for  him  already  : 
or,  he  committed  not  an  injury  when  he  was  dying,  that  is, 
it  is  not  at  killing  another  one  he  died. 

18.  The  profession  of  Cond  broke  grief  through  his 
going  for  a  stay  of  greatness  of  good.  .1.  There  broke  a 
grief-battle  on  Cond,  that  is,  Cond's  Half,  with  its  science 
on  Colum  Cille's  going  for  a  stay  from  them:  or,  there 
were  wail  and  grief  in  the  profession  of  Cond,  that  is,  in  the 
science,  or  in  the  poetry  of  Cond:  or,  there  were  misery 
and  grief  in  the  city  of  Cond  from  the  stay  which  was  on 
Colum  Cille  when  he  went  over  ;  or,  from  the  grief  and 
sadness  which  came  into  Cond's  Half  after  the  death  of 
Colum  Cille.  "  Meti  maith,"  that  is,  large  is  the  greatness 
of  the  goodness  which  was  to  him  from  the  stay  which 
was  on  him. 

19.  A  son-name  of  cross,  .i.  He  gave  name  to  a  cross  : 
or,  a  son  to  whom  was  mindful  the  name  of  Christ's  cross  : 
or,  a  heavy  back-blemish  to  us  is  the  son  who  suffered  in  it. 


68  amrca  choluim  cIiiILt. 

2o.cuice  aias:  ece  aer?:  cewco  iNOias 

.1.  Conice  po  a  aep  con  epbailc.  "  Gee"  .1.  "ip  pollup 
Dam  inc  aep  hi  cein  acu  oc  nenam  hump  lauoip  :"  ap 
Dolecchea  do  a  puile  cein  bui  oc  Denam  in  molca. 
"  Cepco  mDiap"  .1.  íp  mop  a  chepci  mDipimm,  no 
cepcaiDe  inDipim. 

21.  alliacti  Leo  biNO  hi  [s]ngcco  nu- 

OGL.  .1.  Qlliach  .1.  al-lich  iDem  ocup  lich  a  aille  :  amail 
gláeiD  leomam  binD  hi  pnechca  in  tail  nui  aille  inD  leich 
.1.  Colum  Cille  :  ap  in  can  DopbepeaD  in  leo  a  glaeiD 
app,  cecaic  na  hull  anmunna  puchi  co  cabaip  cíí  Di 
a  epbul  immpo,  con  eplec  íp  in  luc  pm  peD  luch  -\ 
pinDach.  Uic  in  pelche  chuice-pium  lap  pin  co  cábaip 
penice  imme-pium  pope  con  epil.  Sic  Colum  Cille. 
Incíí  ím  a  cabpaD  cíí  a  popcecail,  ni  chei^eo  uao: 
caippe  peD  anopeccaiD  cíí  popcecail  Dlic  Oe  in  a 
chimcell  pom.  No,  "  all-iach"  .1.  hin  íach  hi  nalla,  ap 
ceic  in  leo  in  íach  in  alia  cein  bip  in  coipne,  co  cabaip  a 
glaeiD  app  lapn  Dul  hi  mach  íp  in  Dail  nui.  hinD  aille 
Don  DogniD  Col.  Cille  co  DupcaD  na  manach  him 
íapmep^i  popaichmentap  hie.  No  "  allhiach"  .1.  anoile 
anmunna  ~|  epi  paepme  occa  .1.  ppepenp  "]  ppecepicum 
-)  pucupum,  con  inDcpamlaichep  Colum  Cille  Do  pin, 
ap  pobacap  na  cpeDe  pm  occa.  No,  "  bmD  do  neoch 
Do  nu-Dal"  .1.  ip  binD  1  pecc-pa  hi  nu-Dal  .1.  in  Dal  nua 
.i.ain^il  pucpac  leo  in  leo  ip  in  all-iach  ínncpamlaigcech 
.1.  in  coelum. 


22.  co  ec  co  ecuais  iNuech  hi  co- 
LuaiN  co  hechera  :  a  ro^u  rcoper?  suba 

SQTTl-Sl'Ch.  .1.  Co  m'  ec  no  con  mDipiub  pcela  Column 
C1II1 :  no  cmanoo,  uc  Dicicup  "co  amm"  .1.  c'  mDup  inDippec 
co  m'  ec  pcela  Coluim  Cilli,  ap  ni  calla  popm-pa  an 
mDup  [p]in  .1.  inuech  oocuaiD  hi  colainD  co  hechep,amail 
Dochuaio  Pol  :  ocup  ba  he  a  po^a  pin,  ap  ceigeD  cec 
DapDain  cein  bui  hi  colainD  aD  coelum,  uc  pepunc  pepici. 
"  Popep"  .1.  popepupcap  a  po^a  cup  in  pich  hi  pil  pich  "| 
puba  :   no,   popepupcap  co  capDao  a  pogu   Do  co  pam- 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  69 

20.  Hitherto  age:  manifest  sky  :  professions  I  have 
related.  .1.  Up  to  this  his  age  until  he  died.  "  Ece,"  that 
is,  "  manifest  to  me  the  sky  while  I  am  at  making  of  this 
praise:"  for  his  eyes  were  allowed  to  him  while  he  was  at 
making  of  the  praise.  "  Certo  indias,"  that  is,  "great  his 
professions  I  relate,"  or,  "truthful  I  relate." 

21.  He  cried  a  melodious  lion  in  a  snow's  new 
meeting,  .i.  "  Alliath,"  that  is,  "  al-lith,"  the  same  as 
"  lith  a  aille"  (the  vigour  of  his  praise)  :  like  the  roar  of  a 
melodious  lion  in  snow  in  a  new  meeting  is  the  praise  of  the 
strong  one,  that  is,  Colum  Cille:  for  when  the  lion  gives 
his  roar  out  of  him  all  the  animals  come  at  it,  until  he 
gives  a  coil  of  his  tail  around  them,  so  that  there  die  in 
that  place  a  flock  of  rats  and  of  foxes.  The  hunter  comes 
to  him  then  until  he  gives  nets  about  him  afterwards, 
so  that  he  dies.  Thus  Colum  Cille.  The  person  around 
whom  lie  would  give  the  coil  of  his  teaching  would  not 
go  from  him  :  the  strong  power  of  the  coil  of  the  instruc- 
tion of  the  Son  of  God  remains  around  him.  Or,  "  all- 
iath," that  is,  "  hin  iath  in  alia"  (in  the  land  of  the  cave), 
for  the  lion  goes  to  the  land  of  the  cave,  while  the  frost 
remains,  so  that  he  gives  his  roar  out  of  him  after  going 
out  into  the  new  meeting.  The  praise,  then,  which  Colum 
Cille  makes  for  the  awakening  of  the  monks  about  midnight, 
is  commemorated  here.  Or,  "  Allhiath,"  that  is,  a  certain 
animal  and  three  prophecies  with  it,  namely,  the  present 
and  past  and  the  future:  so  that  Colum  Cille  is  likened  to 
this  one,  for  he  had  these  three.  Or,  "  bind  do  neuch  do 
nu-dal,"  that  is,  he  is  melodious  this  time  "  hi  nu-dal,"  that 
is,  in  a  new  meeting,  that  is,  angels  that  carried  with 
them  the  lion  into  the  comparative  cave-land,  that  is,  into 
heaven. 

22.  Until  death  how  shall  I  relate  a  route  in 

FLESH  TO  HEAVEN  ?  HIS  CHOICE  MADE  A  JOY  CALM- 
PEACE,  .i.  Until  my  death  I  shall  not  by  any  means  re- 
late the  tidings  of  Col.  Cille,  or  when,  as  is  said,  "  co 
amm"  (what  time?)  that  is,  in  what  manner  shall  I 
relate  until  my  death  the  tidings  of  Colum  Cille,  for  that 
manner  fits  not  on  me :  that  is,  a  route  he  went  in  flesh  to 
heaven,  as  Paul  went  :  and  that  was  his  choice,  for  he 
used  to  go  every  Thursday  while  he  was  in  flesh  to  heaven, 
as   the  learned  say.      "Rofer,"    that  is,  he   effected  his 


70  cnrma  choluim  chilli. 

pich    .1.    co   pich   inc  pampaio,   ap   íp   ano  acbach.   No, 
popuip  pich  01  a  cpamao  in  cechc  oóchoio  bin  echep. 


23.  rosoIui  sochla  suioe  oooer?t>.  .1. 

Ropuaplaic  pmche "  Oepb"  .1.  íp   oemin 

Dopigne  pin. 

24.  ni  0N5  oeNXige,  ni  0N5  oew-ceci. 

.1.  Ong  .1.  uch  .1.  ni  huch  oen-cige  .1.  ni  an  oen-cig  aca 
a  chainmo,  peD  in  mulcip  oomibup.  Sic  in  pequence. 
Mo  ''  on^"  .1.  caoall:  no  reo  .1.  cimmpain,  no  ceo  .1.  plige  : 
ni  caoall  oen-cige  lapom,  no  ni  caoall  oen  ceci,  no 
caoall  oen-pbgeo  ounn  coineo  Coluim  Cilli.  Ubi  epc 
on?;  .1.  caoall  .mn.  hi  pocha  bpech,  uc  oicicup  : 
"  On^aib,  copcaib  capuc"  .1.  ap  Oman  a  caoaill  01  a 
cope  01a  caipoib.  "Ong"  .1.  ongain  :  Ni  p'bo  hongain 
oen-ci^e,  peo,  pob  onjain  lll-cige  :  no,  ni  p'bo  hongain 
oen-pligeo,  peo  mulcapum. 


25.  cpomxuach   pocul  pochuiNO.  .1. 

lp  cpomm  cuach,  no  íp  cpóm  a  chaineo  oc  na  cuachaib, 
1  pocul  ^onap  nech  pocuino.  No,  "  pocul  pochuino"  .1. 
pocheino  each  uch  :  no  poreno  .1.  pocul  porenoap  each 
in  pcel-pa. 

26.  apolechu    oe   lochaRN    in    Rig 

OORCtObUO  ROaUhlaS.  .1.  lp  apo-pollup  como 
lochapn.  No  "in  lochapn  in  pig,"  oe  poolechcc  omo  m 
molao-pa  pop  Colum  Cille  in  pe^no  coelopum.  Uel  pic  : 
cia  pooibao  hibupp  poaclapp  call.  "  Roolechc  00  lochapn 
in  pi^"  .1.  Colum  "cia  pobaioeo  hie  co  poachlap  call," -| 
pic  conci5ic  ei. 


27.  aiTlRaO  1NSO  IN  Rig  ROOOÍT1R15— 
pOROONSNaiOpe  SIONG.  .1.  lpampa  in  pao  po, 
no  ampa  in  pach  :  no  ampeio  (.1.  Oooainj).     No  ampa  in 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLUM  CILLE.  71 

choice  to  the  palace  in  which  are  peace  and  joy  :  or,  he 
effected  that  his  choice  was  given  to  him  until  summer- 
peace,  that  is,  to  the  peace  of  the  summer,  for  it  is  in  it  he 
died.  Or,  the  surety  who  went  to  heaven  prepared  peace 
for  his  congregation. 

23.  The  good  man  resolved  uncertain  wisdom.  .1. 

He  resolved  wisdom to  them.     "  Derb,"  that  is,  it 

is  certain  he  did  that. 

24.  Not  the  wail  of  one  house,  not  the  wail  of 
one  string.  .1.  "  Ong,"  that  is,  "uch,"  that  is,  not  the 
wail  of  one  house,  that  is,  not  in  one  house  is  the  wailing 
of  him,  but  in  many  houses  :  so  in  the  following.  Or 
"ong,"  that  is,  tribulation;  or,  "  ted,"  that  is  a  tympanum, 
or  "  ted,"  that  is,  way  :  not  the  tribulation  of  one  house 
then,  nor  the  tribulation  of  one  tympanum,  nor  the  tri- 
bulation of  one  road  for  us,  is  crying  Col.  Cille.  Where  is 
"ong,"  that  is,  tribulation?  Not  difficult:  in  Fotha  Breth, 
a3  is  said  :  "  Ongaib,  coscaib  carut"  (with  tribulations,  cor- 
rections of  friends),  that  is,  for  fear  of  their  tribulation 
from  the  correcting  of  them  by  their  friends.  "  Ong,"  that 
is,  "  ongain,"  (....):  it  was  not  an  "  ongain"  of  one 
house,  but  of  many  houses  :  or,  it  was  not  an  "  ongain'  of 
one  way,  but  of  many. 

25.  Of  heavy  territories  is  a  word  of  noise.  .1. 
The  territory  is  heavy,  or  heavy  is  the  crying  for  him 
with  the  territories,  and  a  word  which  wounds  one  is 
"  fothuind."  Or,  "  focul  fothuind,"  that  is,  soreish  is  every 
wail,  or  "  fothend,"  that  is,  a  word  which  presses  every 
one  is  this  news. 

26.  It  was  due  to  the  lamp  of  the  king  which 
was  extinguished,  that  it  relighted.  .1.  He  is  high- 
bright,  so  that  he  is  a  lamp.  Or,  "  the  lamp  of  the  king," 
from  it  was  due  to  us  this  praising  on  Col.  Cille  in  the 
kingdom  of  heaven.  Or  thus  :  though  it  was  extinguished 
here,  it  relighted  beyond.  "It  was  due  to  the  lamp  of 
the  king,"  that  is,  Colum,  "  though  it  was  extinguished 
here,  that  it  relighted  beyond"  ;  and  thus  it  happened  to 
him. 

27.  This  is  the  elegy  of  the  king,  who  has  kinged 
me — may  it  conduct  us  to  sioN.  .1.  Wonderful  is  this 
saying,  or  wonderful  the  grace  :  or,   "  amreid,"  that  is, 


7íá  cnrirca  choluim  chilli. 

pic  nan  ala  pil  poi  in  uappana.  No  ip  inanD  inc  "am" 
pil  ano  i  "mopp"  ap  popr  mopeem  ppecium  lauoip 
Dacum  epc  coeco  :  ap  íp  inano  mc  "am"  ~|  "nem"  .1. 
nem-pach  Din,  ap  íp  neam  chucao  do  hil  I05  a  molca  in 
pig.  "  Rorampig-pa"  .1.  oopac  píge  oam-pa,  ap  íp  ee  Col- 
um  Cille  Dopac  ollamnap  Dam.  "  popnonpnaiDe  Sione" 
.1.  ppnaioe  co  Sliab  Sion  .1.  cup  in  cachpai^  nemoai. 


28.  r?oromsib-sa  sech  pia^u.  .1.  «Ropa 

pint>e  chuca  pech  in  luchc  bice  oc  piagao  caich."  .1. 
Demna  :  "no  pomuca  pech  oemna  in  aeoip  ao  pequiem 
panccopum."  No  "pecbpiagu"  .1.  pech  íngene  Oipcc  : 
cpep  piliae  hopcci  quae  Diueppip  nominibup  nominancup 
in  coelo  -|  m  ceppa  -|  inpepno.  In  coelo  quiDem  Srhenio 
-]  Gupiale  [~|]  TTleoupa  :  in  reppa  Clocho,  Cachepip, 
Ctcpopop  :  in  inpepno  Qlecco,  Ulegaepa,  Uepiphone. 

29.  reopeio  meNma  ouba  oitti.  .1.  "Pobo 

popaio  Dam  Dul  pech  na  Demna  Duba"  .1.  ubi  punn 
Demonep  :  ~]  mencicum  .1.  50,  mencica  .1.  50a  .1.  l?obo 
pein  Dampa  Dul  pech  na  50a  Duba  :  no,  poeppeDi  Dimm 
Demna  Duba  :  no,  pob'  apDpaio  do  na  lochcai,  no  na  50a 
Duba  hi  menmain  do  chop  Dimm.  No,  peDigpiD  "]  lapiD 
Dimm  na  bpeca  Duba  lipepp  Oemun  popm." 

30. oonncipe  ceN  aiNme  huacuii?p[Ri] 
cauhrca     con    uaisle    .1.    "Copab    capa 

Daan  cen  ainim  hoa  Do  Choipppi  Nia-pep  do  Caignib  :" 
ap  íp  híí  Gchni,  insen  Oimma  meic  Noe,  a  machaip,  do 
Choipppige  Caigen,  uc  Dicicup  : 


Gchni  aipecliDa  'n  a  biu, 
In  pi^an  do  Chopppigui, 
TTIachaip  Choluim,  comalln  gle, 
lngen  Oirevmai,  meic  Noe. 

Ocup  baba    luia  hinn  Noe  pin  do  Chachaip  ÍTIop,  mac 


THE  AMKA  OF  COLTJM  CILLE.  73 

difficult.  Or,  wonderful  the  course  of  the  Alas  (Alleluias) 
that  follow  the  Hosanna.  Or,  the  "  am"  that  is  in  it  is 
the  same  as  "  death,"  for  after  death  the  reward  of  the 
praise  was  given  to  the  Blind  (Dalian):  for  the  "am"  is 
the  same  as  "nem"  (heaven),  that  is,  heaven-reward,  for 
it  is  heaven  that  was  given  to  him  in  price  of  the  prais- 
ing of  the  king.  "  Rotamrigsa,"  that  is,  "  who  gave  sove- 
reignty to  me,  for  it  is  Colum  Cille  who  gave  Ollamnas  (office 
of  chief  poet)  to  me."  "  Fordonsnaide  Sione,"that  is,  may- 
he  conduct  us  to  Mount  Sion,  that  is,  to  the  heavenly  city. 
28.  .1.  May  he  bring  me  past  torments,  .i.  "May  he 
bring  us  to  him  past  the  crew,  who  are  tormenting  every 
one,"  that  is,  demons  :  or,  "may  he  waft  me  past  the  demons 
of  the  air  to  the  peace  of  the  saints."  Or,  "  sech  riagu," 
that  is,  past  the  daughters  of  Phorcus :  these  are  three 
daughters  who  are  named  with  different  names  in  heaven, 
in  earth,  and  in  hell.  In  heaven,  indeed,  Sthenyo,  and 
Euryale  [and]  Medusa  :  in  earth  Clotho,  Lachesis,  Atropos : 
in  hell,  Alecto,  Megaera,  Tesiphone. 

29.  May  he  drive  mind-gloom  from  me.  .i.  "May  it  be 
easy  for  me  to  go  past  the  black  demons,"  that  is,  where  demons 
are  :  and  "  mentitum,"  that  is,  a  lie,  and  "  mentita,"  that  is, 
lies.  That  is,  "  May  it  be  easy  for  me  to  go  past  the  black 
lies  ;  or,  may  he  expel  off  me  black  demons  :  or,  may  it  be 
easy  for  him  to  put  off  me  the  faults,  or  the  black  lies  in 
my  mind.  He  will  loose  and  put  off  me  the  black  lies 
which  the  demon  will  pour  on  me." 

30.  May  the  descendant  of  Corpre  of  the  city 
with  nobility  see  me  without  stains,  .i.  "  May  the  de- 
scendant of  Coirpre  Niafer  of  the  Laigne  be  a  friend  to  me 
without  stain"  :  for  Ethne,  daughter  of  Dimma,  son  of 
Noe,  is  his  mother,  of  the  Coirprige  of  the  Laigne,  as  is 
said : 


Ethne  principal  when  alive, 

The  queen  of  the  Corprigi; 

Mother  of  Colum — a  clear  fulfilment — 

Daughter  of  Dimma,  son  of  Noe. 

And  that  Noe  was  a  descendant  of  Cathair  Mor,  son  of 

K 


74  arrma  choluim  chilli. 

peolimio  pin-unjlapi,  '<  Con  uap [li]"  .1.  hua  Chachaip 
uapcul  in  Coipppe  fin. 

31.  oll-rcacha    reooiall,    oll-Nauha 
Nime  NeinsRiaN  ni  oam  ucun.   ni  di[8] 

SCeOlL  DO  hUa  NGllL  .1.  Ip  mop  in  pooiall 
.1.  in  pogneiuguo  -]  in  cpurhuguo  -j  in  Diol  oopacup  popp 
na  poclu-pa  anuapp.  "  Oll-nacha"  .1.  molao  :  no,  ip 
uille  na  inoap  cac  nach  oopi^neo  Do  mm  "]  00  gpein  hin 
nime  in  nach-po.  Mo,  ip  oil  in  nach  Do^nicip  na  pilio 
pop  uup  do  ^pein  1  do  epca,  ~|  ni  moo  in  oeimniugaD 
oobepuip  poppai  olcap  Dopacup-[p]a  punD:  no,  ciD  oil 
lino  epoapcup  nacha  gpeine  -|  epca,  ni  moo  ImD,  ol  in 
pile,  olcar  eppoapcup  ecpechca  Cholium  C1II1.  "  Ni  Dam 
nam"  .1.  ap  coecacup  epc  icepum  .1.  ni  huain  Dam  .1.  "ni 
[p]  ecaim  in  molao  Do  Denam  pecli  apo,  ap  puccha  mo 
puile  uaimm."  No  sic:  "  ni  Dam  uain  ppi  a  Denam  Inn 
nacha  cu  holl,  ap  mpaicim  nem  na  gpein.  "  Ni  Di[p] 
pceoil"  .1.  m  can  peel  Do  hmb  Neill  pin  anuapp. 

piN.  ic.    ameN. 


EEMARKS  ON  TEXT,  &c. 

There  are  a  few  complete  copies  of  the  "  Amra,"  besides 
that  of  Lebor  na  hUidre,  which  is  the  oldest  and  the  best : 
in  Part  II.  I  shall  occasionally  refer  to  those  copies. 

Except  in  the  Introduction  I  had  intended  to  write  the 
English  form  "  Colum"  invariably,  as  it  is  the  most  usual 
in  the  Amra,  but  I  find  that  in  some  places  Columb  has 
found  its  way  into  the  translation  :  the  oldest  Irish  form  is 
Colomb. 

In  representing  the  original  I  have  made  no  distinc- 
tion between  uncontracted  and  contracted  syllables,  as 
I  could  not  do  so  without  disfiguring  the  page  with 
the  introduction  of  either  Roman  characters,  or  brackets, 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLTJH  CILLE.  75 

Fedelmid  Fir-urglas.  "  Con  uais[le],"  .1.  a  descendant 
of  noble  Cathair  is  that  Coirpre. 

31.  Great  circles  of  great  turnings,  great  poems 

OF   HEAVEN    TO    ME  SUNLESS   IS   NOT   A    SUITABLENESS.    Not 

A  trifle  of  a  story  about  Ua  Neill.  .1.  Great  is  the 
great  declension,  that  is,  the  great  formation  and  the 
shaping,  and  the  finish  I  have  given  on  these  words 
above.  "  Oll-natha,"  that  is,  praising:  or,  greater  than 
every  poem  which  has  been  made  for  heaven  and  for  the 
sun  of  the  heaven  is  this  poem.  Or,  great  is  the  poem  the 
poets  used  to  make  at  the  beginning  for  the  sun  and  moon, 
and  not  greater  the  confirmation  they  used  to  give  on  it 
than  I  have  given  here:  or,  though  great  in  our  estimation 
is  the  celebrity  of  the  poems  of  the  sun  and  moon,  not 
greater  in  our  estimation,  says  the  poet,  than  the  celebrity 
of  the  death  of  Col.  Cille.  "  Nidamuain,"  that  is,  for  I  am 
blinded  again,  that  is,  "  ni  huain  dam"  (there  is  no  op- 
portunity for  me),  that  is,  I  cannot  make  the  praise  be- 
yond this,  for  my  eyes  have  been  taken  from  me.  Or, 
thus:  I  have  no  opportunity  of  making  the  poem  mightily, 
for  I  see  neither  heaven  nor  sun.  "  JSTi  dis  [s]ceoil,"  that  is, 
not  without  a  story  for  the  descendants  of  Niall  that 
down. 

It  endeth.     Amen. 


or  something  in  that  way,  to  indicate  the  resolution 
of  the  contraction.  Meantime,  while  I  have  thus  pre- 
served a  uniformity  pleasing  to  the  eye,  I  have  done  no 
injustice  to  the  student,  for  in  the  accurate  lithograph 
copy  of  Leb.  na  hUidre,  published  some  time  ago  by  the 
Royal  Irish  Academy,  he  can  see  the  contraction  at  a  glance, 
while  from  the  present  edition  he  can  test  my  mode  of  re- 
solving it. 

As  I  had  no  opportunity  of  representing  in  print  the 
dotted  11  and  wz,  I  shall  here  point  out  the  words  in  which 
they  occur  : 

The  n  of  pmln,  p.  8,  line  17  :  the  m  of  reojiam,  and  of 
bliaoctnm,  p.  10,  fourth  line  from  foot :  the  n  of  cin^,  next 
line  :  the  second  n  of  cenonaib,  p.  14,  line  1 :  the  n  of 
oopaipngepc,  same  page,  line  2  :  the  second  n  of  nongeban, 


76  KEMAEKS  ON  THE  TEXT,  &c. 

ib.,  line  4  :  the  n  of  in  in  lap  in  ^óeoel,  ib.,  seventh  line 
from  foot  :  the  n  of  in  and  gurn,  ib.,  sixth  and  fifth  line 
from  foot,  and  p.  16,  line  13  :  the  n  of  Deilmn  and 
oi[p]olain5,  p.  24,  Article  1,  and  again,  Article  3:  the  m 
of  apm  bin,  p.  28,  Article  9  :  the  n  of  arrgil  Oé,  p.  30,  Ar- 
ticle 1  :  the  n  of  an^il,  p.  32,  Article  13  :  the  n  of  o'angil, 
p.  38,  Article  9  :  the  n  of  ímmeon,  p.  40,  Article  11  :  the 
n  of  an^el,  p.  64,  Article  11. 

Corrections  of  text. — ino  mnapba,  p.  8,  line  10  [ms.  in 
cmnapba]:  puc,  p.  12,  line  9  from  foot  [ms.  puc]:  pcir,  p. 
16,  line  12  [m&  pci'6]  :  í  cpub,  p.  18,  line  15  [ms.  icpub]  : 
oepmepeccaigcip,  p.  18,  line  8  from  foot  [ms.  oep — ] 
oocuipmec  p.  20,  line  3  [ms.  oocmpmeu]  :  pencaib,  p. 
24,  Article  3  [ms.  pepcaio]  :  pluneo,  p.  28,  Article  13 
[ms.  pluneno,  with  the  second  n  dotted  to  indicate  dele- 
tion]: oino,  p.  32,  Article  7  [ms.  bino]:  'n  a  cpioib,  p. 
32,  Article  11  [ms.  nacpioib]  :  am^il  Oé,  p.  32,  Article  13 
[ms.  ain^el  Oé]  :  nochlimeo  p.  36,  Article  3  [ms.  poch- 
luneo]  :  inc  éc,  p.  38,  Article  8  [?ns.  incéc]:  bopcanao, 
p.  40,  Article  11  [?ns.  oopcapao]:  m  ma,  p.  62,  line  6 
[?ns.  mma]. 

Translation:  For  comma  after  "north-west,"  p.  11,  fifth 
line  from  foot,  read  "period:"  for  "  treasures,"  p.  13, line  11, 
read  "  gifts:"  for  twenty -fifth  line,  p.  13,  read  "  0  conscience 
with  its  soul  pure  :"  to  "  Obscuration,"  p.  17,  seventh  line 
from  foot,  prefix  "  Culu,"  that  is  :  "  for  "  wander"  p.  27, 
line  15,  read  "dwell:"  p.  43,  Article  7,  dele  comma  after 
"  Maistin  :"  for  "finite,  p.  55,  Article  3,  read  "definite." 
In  the  translation  there  are,  no  doubt,  some  contestable 
and  absolutely  erroneous  renderings:  these,  however,  I 
must  leave  in  the  care  of  my  readers  until  I  examine  them 
in  the  Second  Part. 

I  find  one  error  in  the  printed  Irish — inobaiD  [recte 
inbaio]  p.  16,  line  18.  For  libup-leisoocc,  p.  32,  Article 
7,  read  libup  leig  t>occ  :  dele  hyphen  in  polep-ail,  same 
page,  Article  9. 

N.B. — The  "  Amra,"  which  in  the  original  is  written  in  double  column 
each  page,  begins  at  top  of  p.  5,  and  breaks  up  at  foot  of  p.  12.  The 
supplement  from  the  Leb.  Brecc  is  from  the  back  of  fol.  110. 


THE  AMRA  OF  COLITM  CILLE.  73 

difficult.  Or,  wonderful  the  course  of  the  Alas  (Alleluias) 
that  follow  the  Hosanna.  Or,  the  "  am"  that  is  in  it  is 
the  same  as  "  death,"  for  after  death  the  reward  of  the 
praise  was  given  to  the  Blind  (Dalian):  for  the  "am"  is 
the  same  as  "nem"  (heaven),  that  is,  heaven-reward,  for 
it  is  heaven  that  was  given  to  him  in  price  of  the  prais- 
ing of  the  king.  "  Rotamrigsa,"  that  is,  "  who  gave  sove- 
reignty to  me,  for  it  is  Colum  Cille  who  gave  Ollamnas  (office 
of  chief  poet)  to  me."  "  Fordonsnaide  Sione,"that  is,  may- 
he  conduct  us  to  Mount  Sion,  that  is,  to  the  heavenly  city. 

28.  .1.  May  he  bring  me  past  torments,  .i.  "May  he 
bring  us  to  him  past  the  crew,  who  are  tormenting  every 
one,"  that  is,  demons  :  or,  "may  he  waft  me  past  the  demons 
of  the  air  to  the  peace  of  the  saints."  Or,  "  sech  riagu," 
that  is,  past  the  daughters  of  Phorcus :  these  are  three 
daughters  who  are  named  with  different  names  in  heaven, 
in  earth,  and  in  hell.  In  heaven,  indeed,  Sthenyo,  and 
Euryale  [and]  Medusa  :  in  earth  Clotho,  Lachesis,  Atropos : 
in  hell,  Alecto,  Megaera,  Tesiphone. 

29.  May  he  drive  mind-gloom  from  me.  .i.  "May  it  be 
easy  for  me  to  go  past  the  black  demons,"  that  is,  where  demons 
are  :  and  "  mentitum,"  that  is,  a  lie,  and  "  mentita,"  that  is, 
lies.  That  is,  "  May  it  be  easy  for  me  to  go  past  the  black 
lies  ;  or,  may  he  expel  off  me  black  demons  :  or,  may  it  be 
easy  for  him  to  put  off  me  the  faults,  or  the  black  lies  in 
my  mind.  He  will  loose  and  put  off  me  the  black  lies 
which  the  demon  will  pour  on  me." 

30.  May  the  descendant  of  Corpre  of  the  city 
with  nobility  see  me  without  stains.  .1.  "  May  the  de- 
scendant of  Coirpre  Niafer  of  the  Laigne  be  a  friend  to  me 
without  stain"  :  for  Ethne,  daughter  of  Dimma,  son  of 
Noe,  is  his  mother,  of  the  Coirprige  of  the  Laigne,  as  is 
said : 


Ethne  principal  when  alive, 

The  queen  of  the  Corprigi; 

Mother  of  Colum — a  clear  fulfilment — 

Daughter  of  Dimma,  son  of  Noe. 

And  that  Noe  was  a  descendant  of  Cathair  Mor,  son  of 

K 


74  anrma  choluim  chilli. 

peDlimiD  pip-upglapi,  u Con  uap[li]"  .1.  hua  Chachaip 
uapail  in  Coipppe  pin. 

31.  oll-rcauha    rcooiall,    oll-Nacha 
Nime  NemsrciaN  ni  oam  uaiN.    ni  oi[s] 

SCGOlC  DO  hUa  NGlll  .1.  lp  mop  in  pooiall 
.1.  in  pogneiu^uD  ~]  in  cpuchuguD  ~]  in  Diol  oopacup  popp 
na  poclu-pa  anuapp.  "  Oll-nacha"  .1.  molao :  no,  íp 
mile  na  moap  cac  nach  Dopi^neD  t)o  mm  1  Do  ^pein  hin 
nime  in  nach-po.  No,  íp  oil  in  noxh  Do^mcip  na  pilio 
pop  cup  do  5pein  1  Do  epca,  -|  ni  moo  in  DeimmujaD 
oobepcip  poppai  olcap  Dopacup-[p]a  pnnD:  no,  cid  oil 
linD  epDapcup  nacha  gpeine  -\  epca,  ni  moo  lino,  ol  in 
pile,  olcap  eppDapcup  ecpechca  Choluim  Cilli.  "  Ni  Dam 
uam"  .1.  ap  coecacup  epc  icepum  .1.  ni  huain  Dam  .1.  "  ni 
[p]  ecaim  in  molaD  do  Denam  pech  apo,  ap  puccha  mo 
pmle  uaimm."  No  sic:  "  ni  Dam  uain  ppi  a  Denam  hin 
nacha  cu  lioll,  ap  nipaicim  nem  na  gpein.  "  Ni  Di[p] 
pceoil"  .1.  ni  can  peel  Do  huib  Neill  pin  anuapp. 

piR  iu.    ameN. 


REMAKES   ON  TEXT,  &c. 

There  are  a  few  complete  copies  of  the  "  Amra,"  besides 
that  of  Lebor  na  hUidre,  which  is  the  oldest  and  the  best : 
in  Part  II.  I  shall  occasionally  refer  to  those  copies. 

Except  in  the  Introduction  I  had  intended  to  write  the 
English  form  "  Colum"  invariably,  as  it  is  the  most  usual 
in  the  Amra,  but  I  find  that  in  some  places  Columb  has 
found  its  way  into  the  translation  :  the  oldest  Irish  form  is 
Colomb. 

In  representing  the  original  I  have  made  no  distinc- 
tion between  uncontracted  and  contracted  syllables,  as 
I  could  not  do  so  without  disfiguring  the  page  with 
the  introduction  of  either  Roman  characters,  or  brackets, 


THE  AMR  A  OF  COLTJM  CILLE.  75 

Fedelmid  Fir-urglas.  "Con  uais[le],"  .?.  a  descendant 
of  noble  Cathair  is  that  Coirpre. 

31.  Great  circles  of  great  turnings,  great  poems 

OF   HEAVEN    TO    ME  SUNLESS  IS   NOT   A    SUITABLENESS.    Not 

A  trifle  of  A  story  about  Ua  Neill.  .i.  Great  is  the 
great  declension,  that  is,  the  great  formation  and  the 
shaping,  and  the  finish  I  have  given  on  these  words 
above.  "  Oll-natha,"  that  is,  praising:  or,  greater  than 
every  poem  which  has  been  made  for  heaven  and  for  the 
sun  of  the  heaven  is  this  poem.  Or,  great  is  the  poem  the 
poets  used  to  make  at  the  beginning  for  the  sun  and  moon, 
and  not  greater  the  confirmation  they  used  to  give  on  it 
than  I  have  given  here:  or,  though  great  in  our  estimation 
is  the  celebrity  of  the  poems  of  the  sun  and  moon,  not 
greater  in  our  estimation,  says  the  poet,  than  the  celebrity 
of  the  death  of  Col.  Cille.  •'  Nidamuain,"  that  is,  for  I  am 
blinded  again,  that  is,  "  ni  huain  dam"  (there  is  no  op- 
portunity for  me),  that  is,  I  cannot  make  the  praise  be- 
yond this,  for  my  eyes  have  been  taken  from  me.  Or, 
thus:  I  have  no  opportunity  of  making  the  poem  mightily, 
for  I  see  neither  heaven  nor  sun.  "  Ni  dis  [sjceoil,"  that  is, 
not  without  a  story  for  the  descendants  of  Niall  that 
down. 

It  endeth.     Amen. 


or  something  in  that  way,  to  indicate  the  resolution 
of  the  contraction.  Meantime,  while  I  have  thus  pre- 
served a  uniformity  pleasing  to  the  eye,  I  have  done  no 
injustice  to  the  student,  for  in  the  accurate  lithograph 
copy  of  Leb.  na  hUidre,  published  some  time  ago  by  the 
Royal  Irish  Academy,  he  can  see  the  contraction  at  a  glance, 
while  from  the  present  edition  he  can  test  my  mode  of  re- 
solving it. 

As  I  had  no  opportunity  of  representing  in  print  the 
dotted  n  and  m,  I  shall  here  point  out  the  words  in  which 
they  occur  : 

The  n  of  ynnln,  p.  8,  line  17  :  the  m  of  ceopam,  and  of 
bliaocmm,  p.  10,  fourth  line  from  foot :  the  n  of  cin^,  next 
line  :  the  second  n  of  cenonaib,  p.  14,  line  1 :  the  n  of 
ooriaipngepc,  same  page,  line  2  :  the  second  n  of  nongebao, 


76  REMARKS  ON  THE  TEXT,  &c. 

ib.,  line  4  :  the  n  of  in  in  lap  in  góeoel,  ib.,  seventh  line 
from  foot  :  the  n  of  in  and  gucn,  ib.,  sixth  and  fifth  line 
from  foot,  and  p.  16,  line  13  :  the  n  of  oeilmn  and 
t)i[p]olain^,  p.  24,  Article  1,  and  again,  Article  3:  the  m 
of  anm  bm,  p.  28,  Article  9  :  the  n  of  angil  Oé,  p.  30,  Ar- 
ticle 1  :  the  n  of  angil,  p.  32,  Article  13  :  the  n  of  o'angil, 
p.  38,  Article  9  :  the  n  of  immeon,  p.  40,  Article  11  :  the 
n  of  angel,  p.  64,  Article  11. 

Corrections  of  text. — ino  mnapba,  p.  8,  line  10  [ms.  in 
cinnapba]:  nuc,  p.  12,  line  9  from  foot  [ms.  nuc]:  pcir,  p. 
16,  line  12  [ms.  pcíó]  :  l  cnub,  p.  18,  line  15  [ms.  icjiub]: 
oepmeneccaigcin,  p.  18,  line  8  from  foot  [?ns.  oen — ] 
oocuipinec  p.  20,  line  3  [ms.  oocuirmec]  :  pencaió,  p. 
24,  Article  3  [ms.  pencaio] :  pluneo,  p.  28,  Article  13 
[ms.  pluneno,  with  the  second  n  dotted  to  indicate  dele- 
tion]: omn,  p.  32,  Article  7  [ms.  bino]:  'n  a  cpioib,  p. 
32,  Article  11  [ms.  nacnioib]  :  aingil  Oé,  p.  32,  Article  13 
[ms.  aingel  Dé]  :  nochluneo  p.  36,  Article  3  [ms.  noch- 
luneo] :  inc  éc,  p.  38,  Article  8  [??is.  ínuéc]:  Oopcanao, 
p.  40,  Article  11  [?ns.  Dopcanao]:  ni  ma,  p.  62,  line  6 
[ms.  nima]. 

Translation:  For  comma  after  "north-west,"  p.  11,  fifth 
line  from  foot,  read  "period:" for  "  treasures,"  p.  13, line  11, 
read  "  gifts:"  for  twenty -fifth  line,  p.  13,  read  "  0  conscience 
with  ite  soul  pure  :"  to  "  Obscuration,"  p.  17,  seventh  line 
from  foot,  prefix  "  Culu,"  that  is  :  "  for  "  wander"  p.  27, 
line  15,  read  "dwell:"  p.  4-3,  Article  7,  dele  comma  after 
"  Maistin  :"  for  "finite,  p.  55,  Article  3,  read  "definite." 
In  the  translation  there  are,  no  doubt,  some  contestable 
and  absolutely  erroneous  renderings:  these,  however,  I 
must  leave  in  the  care  of  my  readers  until  I  examine  them 
in  the  Second  Part. 

I  find  one  error  in  the  printed  Irish — mobaio  [recte 
mbaio]  p.  16,  line  18.  For  libup-leigoocr,  p.  32,  Article 
7,  read  libup  leig  oocc  :  dele  hyphen  in  piolep-ail,  same 
page,  Article  9. 

N.B. — The  "  Ainra,"  which  in  the  original  iswritten  in  double  column 
each  page,  begins  at  top  of  p.  5,  and  breaks  up  at  foot  of  p.  12.  The 
supplement  from  the  Leb.  Brecc  is  from  the  back  of  fol.  110. 


■\ 


'i 

J 


