A   GRAMMAR 


IRISH  LANGUAGE 


P.  W.  JOYCE,  LL.D..  tCD.  MAUL 


DUBLIN  t 
M.    H     GILL    AND    SOW, 


u« 


9 


9 


/?i 


A  GRAMMAR 


/*JlL 


IRISH    LANGUAGE 


P,  W,  JOYCE,  LLD,,  T.C.D.,  M.R.I.A., 

One  of  ikf.  Professors  in  the  Training  Department  of  the 
Commissioners  of  National  Education,  Ireland. 


DUBLIN 
M.     II.    GILL    AND    SON 


. 


PREFACE. 


Though  this  text-book  is  small,  it  comprises,  I  believe, 
everything  necessary — so  far  as  grammar  is  concerned — 
for  a  student  of  modern  Irish.  I  have  not  treated  at  all 
of  the  ancient  forms  of  the  language ;  and  I  have  excluded 
everything  in  the  shape  of  dissertation :  the  grammar  of 
the  modern  Irish  language,  and  no  more,  is  here  set  forth 
in  words  as  few  and  simple  as  possible. 

I  have  not  suggested  any  changes  either  in  spelling  or 
in  grammatical  forms,  or  attempted  innovation  of  any 
kind :  this  is  a  grammar  of  the  language  as  it  actually 
exists  in  the  works  of  our  best  writers. 

All  the  illustrative  examples  are  quotations  from 
standard  Irish  writings  ;  but  though  I  retain  the  refer- 
ences, I  have  not  given  them  in  the  grammar,  as  they 
would  encumber  the  book,  and  impede,  rather  than  facili- 
tate the  learner.  I  may  mention  here,  however,  that  the 
works  from  which  the  examples  are  chiefly  taken,  are, 
those  of  Keating,  the  publications  of  the  Ossianic  Society, 
"  The  Three  Sorrowful  Stories  of  Erin"  (viz.,  "  The  Fate 
of  the  Children  of  Usna,"  "  The  Fate  of  the  Children  of 
Lir,"  and  "  The  Fate  of  the  Children  of  Turenn"),  and 
occasionally  the  "  Annals  of  the  Four  Masters."  The 
language  of  the  various  works  published  by  the  Archaeo- 
logical and  Celtic  Societies  is  generally  too  antiquated 
to  be  quoted  in  a  grammar  of  modern  Irish. 

I  have  all  through  given  word-for-word  translations 
of  the  examples ;  free  translations  would  have  been  more 
pleasant  to  read,  but  would  have  added  considerably  to 
the  learner's  difficulty. 

In  the  last  Part — "  Idioms" — I  have  given  a  popular 
rather  than  a  scientific  explanation  of  the  principal  idioms 
of  the  language.  Nothing  like  this  is  to  be  found  in  any 
other  Irish  Grammar  j  and  I  beliere  that  the  learner  who 
masters  it  will  be  saved  much  labour  and  perplexity. 


There  are  several  other  Irish  Grammars,  but  none  low 
enough  in  price  to  be  within  reach  of  the  many.  Who- 
ever wishes  to  study  the  Irish  language  in  its  ancient  a3 
well  as  in  its  modern  forms,  must  procure  O'Donovan's 
Grammar ;  without  this  great  work  no  one  can  attain  a 
thorough  knowledge  of  the  language.  I  may  also  men- 
tion "  The  College  Irish  Grammar,"  by  the  Rev.  Ulick  J. 
Canon  Bourke,  in  which  there  is  a  great  amount  of  mis- 
cellaneous information  on  the  language,  proverbs,  and 
popular  literature  of  Ireland. 

The  labours  of  the  Society  for  the  Preservation  of  the 
Irish  Language  have  lately  given  a  great  impetus  to 
Celtic  studies.  The  Society  has  produced  two  admirable 
little  elementary  books  (the  Fi  rst  and  Second  Irish  Books) 
and  are  about  to  bring  out  a  third  all  drawn  up  by  the 
members  themselves  on  the  plan  of  the  elementary  works 
of  Smith,  Arnold,  Ahn,  &c.  But  the  want  of  a  very 
cheap  and  simple  text-book  on  Irish  Grammar  has  been 
much  felt ;  and  this  Grammar  has  been  written  to  supply 
the  want.  I  have  written  it  with  the  cognisance  of  the 
Council  of  the  Society,  of  which  I  am  myself  a  member. 
It  was  at  first  intended  that  the  name  of  the  Society 
should  appear  on  the  title-page  along  with  my  own  name, 
and  a  resolution  to  that  effect  was  passed  by  the 
Council.  But  I  found  some  difficulty  as  to  the  exact 
words,  and  I  have  accordingly  contented  myself  with 
mentioning  the  matter  here. 

I  acknowledge  with  thanks  that  I  have  received  valu- 
able assistance  from  several  gentlemen  of  the  Society, 
who  read  every  word  of  my  proofs,  suggesting  various 
corrections,  alterations,  and  improvements.  One  member 
in  particular,  Mr.  John  Fleming  of  Rathgormuck,  in  the 
county  "Waterford,  read  all  my  manuscript  in  the  first 
instance,  and  all  the  proof-sheets  afterwards.  Mr. 
Fleming's  assistance  was  invaluable  to  me,  for  he  pos- 
sesses an  intimate  knowledge  of  modern  Irish  Grammar, 
language,  and  literature,  and  what  is  still  better,  much 
sound  sense  and  clear  critical  judgment. 

Dublin,  November,  1878. 


CONTENTS, 


PART  I. 


ORTHOGRAPHY. 

PAGE 

CHAPTER  I.— SOUNDS              1 

i.  Letters       ...          . .               ..             ...  ...  1 

II.  Diphthongs             ...              ...              ...  ...  4 

in.  Triphthongs           ...               ..              ...  ...  6 

iv.  Various  Sounds     ...             ...             ...  ...  6 

CHAPTER  IL— LETTER  CHANGES      ...  ...  8 

i.  Aspiration             ...             ...             ...  ...  8 

ii.  Rules  for  Aspiration            ...             ...  ...  9 

in.  Eclipsis      ...             ...  ...  10 

iv.  Rules  for  Eclipsis                ...             ...  ...  11 

v.  Caol  le  caol  agup  leacan  le  leatan  ...  13 

vi.  Syncope     ...             ...  ...  14 


PART  II. 


ETYMOLOGY. 

CHAPTER  I.— THE  ARTICLE 16 

I.  Change  of  form  in  the  Article  ...  ...  16 

II.  Changes  produced  by  the  Article       ...  ...  17 

Singular  ...  .„  ...  ...  17 

Plural 18 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

CHAPTER  II.— THE  NOCN 18 

I.  Gender      ...             ...  ...  18 

Masculine           ...  ...             ...  ...  19 

Feminine            ...  ...             ...  ...  19 

ii.  Declensions          ...  ...             ...  ...  20 

Cases      ...             ...  ...  20 

First  Declension  ...             ...  ...  21 

Second  Declension  ...             ...  ,..  23 

Third  Declension  ...             ...  ...  25 

Fourth  Declension  ...             ...  ...  27 

Fifth  Declension  ...             ...  ...  28 

Irregular  Declension  ...             ...  ...  28 

Declension  of  the  Article  with  the  Noun  ...  30 


CHAPTER  III. —THE  ADJECTIVE  32 

I.  Declension  of  Adjectives      ...  ...             ...  32 

First  Declension               ...  ...             ...  32 

Second  Declension             ...  ...             ...  33 

Third  Declension              ...  ...             ...  33 

Fourth  Declension            ...  ...             ...  34 

ii.   Declension  of  the  Article  and  Adjective  with  the 

Noun              ...             ...  ...             ...  34 

in.  Comparison  of  Adjectives  ...  ...             ...  35 

Irregular  Comparison      ...  ...             ...  36 

iv.  Numeral  Adjectives             ...  ...             ..  37 


CHAPTER  IV.— THE  PRONOUN 39 

I.  Personal  Pronouns              ...              ...             ...  39 

Declension  of  Personal  Pronouns  ...             ...  40 

Personal  Pronouns  compounded  with  Prepo- 
sitions            ...             ...             ...             ...  41 

II.  Possessive  Pronouns           ...             ...             ...  44 

Possessive  Pronouns  compounded  with  Pre- 
positions       ...             ...             ...            ...  4£ 

in.  Relative  Pronouns             ...             ...            ...  46 

iv.  Demonstrative  Pronouns    ...             ...             ...  47 

v.  Interrogative  Pronouns      ...             ...             ...  47 

vi.  Indefinite  Pronouns            ...             ...             ...  47 


CHAPTER  V.— THE  VERB 

I.  Persons :  Synthetic  and  Analytic  forms 
II.  Tenses   ... 
in.  Moods  and  Voices 
iv.  Conjugation  of  the  regular  Verb  buml 
iv.  Relative  form  of  the  Verb  ... 
v.  Formation  and  uses  of  the  moods  and 

Regular  Verbs 
vi.  Verbs  in  U15,  il,  m,  íp,  ip  ... 

Paradigm  of  the  regular  Verb  meall 
Paradigm  of  the  regular  Verb  dpOuig 
\li.  Irregular  Verbs    ... 

1.  Gdim,  I  am  .. 

2.  Ip,  it  is      ... 

3.  bheipim,  I  give 

4.  beipim,  I  bear 

5.  Chim,  I  see 

6.  Clumim,  I  hear 

7.  Oecinaim,  I  do 

8.  5ni™  or  nim,  Ido  ... 

9.  Oeipim,  I  say 

10.  pa^cum  or  geibim,  I  find    ... 

11.  lcim,  I  eat     

12.  TCigim,  I  reach 

13.  Céióirn,  I  go 
H    Gi5im,Icome 

Other  Defective  Verb3 


PAGE 

48 

43 
50 
51 
52 
55 

56 
62 
64 
65 
66 
66 
71 
73 
74 


80 
81 
81 
82 
83 
84 


CHAPTER  VI.— ADVERBS,  PREPOSITIONS,  CON- 
JUNCTIONS, INTERJECTIONS    ...      '       ...  85 

1.  Adverbs     ...  ...  ...  85 

11.  Prepositions  .  .         ...  ...  ...  87 

in.  Conjunctions  ...         ...  ...  ...  89 

iv.  Interjections  ...  ...  90 


CHAPTER  VII.— PREFIXES  AND  AFFIXES      ...       01 

1.  Prefixes     ...  ...  ...       91 

II.  Affixes  or  terminations        ...  ...  ...       93 


PART   III. 
SYNTAX. 

PAGK 

CHAPTER  I.— NOUNS ...  U5 

CHAPTER  II.— THE  ARTICLE  AND  NOUN         ...  98 

CHAPTER  III.— THE  ADJECTIVE  AND  NOUN  ...  100 

Agreement  and  collocation  of  the  Adjective 

and  Noun       ...             ...             ...      "       ...  100 

CHAPTER  IV.— NUMERAL  ADJECTIVES           ...  104 

CHAPTER  V.— THE  PRONOUN 105 

I.  Personal  Pronouns               ...              ..,             ...  105 

ii.  Possessive  Pronouns             ...              ...              ...  106 

in.  Relative  Pronouns    ...          ...              ...              ...  107 

iv.  Demonstrative  Pronouns     ...              ...              ...  10'J 

v.  Interrogative  and  Indefinite?  Pronouns             ...  109 

CHAPTER  VI.—  THE  VERB       110 

CHAPTER  VII.— PREPOSITIONS           113 

PART    IV. 

ILIOMS. 

Explanation  and  illustration  of  forty -three  Idioms 

of  the  Irish  Language         ...             ...             ...  116 

APPENDIX. 

Additional  examples  of  declensions  of  Nouns       ...  136 


SCHOOL 
IRISH    GRAMM  AR. 

PAET  I. 
ORTHOGRAPHY. 


CHAPTEE  I. 

SOUNDS. 
I.     LETTEES. 

1.  The  Irish  alphabet  consists  of  eighteen 
letters,  of  which  thirteen  are  consonants  and  five 
are  vowels. 

2.  The  five  vowels  are  a,  e,  i,  o,  u  ;  of 
which  a,  o,  u  are  broad,  and  e,  l  are  slender. 

3.  Each  consonant  (with  the  exceptions  men- 
tioned below)  has  a  broad  and  a  slender  sound. 
When  a  consonant  comes  immediately  after  or 
before  a  broad  vowel,  it  has  its  broad  sound: 
when  it  comes  after  or  before  a  slender  vowel,  it 
has  its  slender  sound.  But  this  does  not  apply  to 
b,  p,  h,  m,  p,  each  of  which  has  one  sound  only, 
whether  joined  with  a  broad  vowel  or  a  slender 
vowel. 

4.  Vowels  are  either  long  or  short.  A  long 
vowel  is  usually  marked  by  an  accent;  as  ban, 
white :  a  short  vowel  has  no  mark ;  as  mac,  a  son. 

2 


2  ORTHOGRAPHY  [PART  I. 

5.  The  Irish  vowels,  like  the  English,  have  an 
obscure  sound  in  unaccented  syllables,  of  which 
it  is  not  necessary  to  take  further  notice  here. 

6.  The  following  are  the  usual  sounds  of  the 
Irish  letters,  so  far  as  they  can  be  represented  by 
English  letters. 

7.  Those  marked  with  asterisks  are  only  imperfectly  re- 
presented in  sound  by  the  corresponding  English  letters  : 
those  not  so  marked  are  represented  perfectly  or  very  nearly  so. 

8.  The  sounds  of  the  marked  letters  must  be  learned  by 
ear :  it  is  hardly  possible  to  give  in  writing  such  a  descrip- 
tion of  them  as  would  enable  a  learner  to  utter  them. 

9.  C  is  equal  to  k,  yet  when  it  comes  before  the  diph- 
thong ao  or  the  triphthong  aoi,  beginners  find  it  very  hard  to 
áound  it :  caol  (narrow)  is  neither  kail  or  quail,  but  some- 
thing between  :  caom  (gentle)  is  neither  keen  or  queen, 
but  something  between. 

10.  So  also  with  5,  which  (broad  and  slender)  is  equal  to 
g  in  got  and  get :  yet  5C10I  is  hard  for  a  beginner  to  utter, 
being  neither  gail  nor  gwail,  but  something  between. 

11.  The  Irish  broad  0  and  C  bear  the  same  relation  to  each 
other  as  the  English  d  and  t ;  that  is,  the  first  in  each  case 
is  flat  or  soft,  and  the  second  sharp  or  hard.  English  d  and 
t  are  sounded  by  placing  the  tip  of  the  tongue  against  the 
roof  of  the  mouth  :  Irish  0  and  c  by  placing  the  top  of  the 
tongue  against  the  upper  front  teeth.  Irish  0  and  c  may  be 
described  in  another  way  :  the  two  sounds  of  th  in  those  and 
thumb  are  both  continuous,  the  first  flat,  the  second  sharp. 
Now  the  two  explosive  sounds  corresponding  to  these  two  con- 
tinuous sounds  (i.e.,  with  the  tongue  in  the  same  position),  are 
exactly  the  Irish  0  and  c. 

12.  Broad  I  and  n  are  sounded  by  placing  the  top  of  the 
tongue  (not  against  the  roof  of  the  mouth  as  in  case  of 
English  I  and  n  but)  against  the  upper  front  teeth.  Irish 
O  and  c  are  to  English  d  and  t  as  Irish  I  or  n  to  English  lorn. 

13.  Slender  p  is  the  most  difficult  of  all  the  Irish  conso- 
nantal sounds  :  and  learners,  unless  Uiey  have  acquired  it  in 
youth,  often  iafl  to  articulate  it  correctly,  though  the  teacher 
inaj  sotind  &  ewer  and  over  again  for  their  imitation. 

V  .  As  h  represents  a  mere  breathing  or  aspiration  and 
not  an  articulate  sound,  and  as  it  never  begins  a  word,  some 
writers  exclude  it  from  the  letters,  thus  making  seventeen 
instead  of  eighteen,  as  given  here. 


CHAP.  I.J 


SOUNDS. 
TABLE  OF  SOUNDS. 


Letters. 

Vowel 

Consonant 

| 

ong  or 
short. 

broad  or 
6!ender. 

Irish 

sounds.    ) 

Corresponding 
English  sounds. 

Irish. 

Eng. 

a 

a 

a 

long 
short 

Ion         , 
mac 

lawn,  ball 
bat  or  what 

6 

b 

b 

ball 

&an 

c 

c 

c 

broad 

slender 

cab 

cmn 

cob 
&mg 

0 

b 

d 

broad 
slender 

ball 
bian 

those 
coráial 

é 

e 

e 

long 

short 

; ; 

mé 

date 
met 

P 

F 

f 

.. 

pmn 

/in 

5 

5 

g 

broad 
slender 

5opc 
^eip 

get,  gimlet 

h 

h 

h 

a  h-anam 

Ziamnier 

1 

i 

i 

long 
short 

min 
mm 

seen           ( 
pin 

*  i 

Í 

1 

broad 

slender 

Ion 
pile 

tone 
vermilion 

111 

m 

IU 

mil 

mill 

*    N 

Tl 

n 

broad 

slender 

nop 
neab 

«one 
new 

O 

O 

0 

long 

mop 

more 

„ 

„ 

short 

bop 

love,  run 

P 

P 

P 

poc 

pore 

rt 

P 

r 

broad 

póO 

road 

*  >» 

slender 

cuip 

clarion 

s 

r 

s 

broad 
slender 

pona 
pin 

son 
s^een 

•  c 

c 

t 

broad 

com 

^uinb 

M 

slender 

ceme 

courteous 

lu 

u 

ii 

long 
short 

miip 

muc 

moor,  r«de 
|         put,  bull 

15.  The  following  are  the  native  names  of  the  Iri9a  letters,  but 
they  need  not  be  used  by  the  learner.  All  or  most  of  them  are 
the  names  of  trees.  Gilm,  a  ;  beic,  b  ;  coll,  c ;  baip,  d  ;  eaba, 
e;  peapn, /;  sojic,  g;  uafc,  h;  105a,  tjluif,/;  mum,  m; 
num,  n;  oip  or  onn,  0;  peic-bog,  p;  puip,  r  ;  puil,  s;  ceine, 
t;  tip, «. 


ORTHOGRAPHY.  [PART  I. 


II.    DIPHTHONGS. 

1.  There  are  thirteen  diphthongs  in  the  Irish 
language — viz.,  ae,  ao,  eu,  ia,  ua,  ai,  ea,  ei,  eo, 
10,  iu,  01,  ui ;  of  which  the  first  five  are  always 
long,  and  the  remaining  eight  are  sometimes  long 
and  sometimes  short. 

2.  The  following  are  the  sounds  of  the  five 
long  diphthongs  : — 

3.  ae  sounds  like  ay  in  day ;  as  pae,  the  moon, 
pronounced  ray. 

4.  ao,  in  the  southern  half  of  Ireland,  sounds 
nearly  like  way,  and  in  the  west  and  north-west 
somewhat  like  we.  Thus  maop,  a  steward,  is 
pronounced  like  mwair  in  the  south,  and  like 
mweer  in  the  west  and  north-west. 

5.  eu  like  ai  in  lair ;  as  in  peup,  grass, 
pronounced  fair. 

6.  ia  like  ee  in  beer;  as  in  ciap,  dark-coloured, 
pronounced  keer. 

7.  ua  nearly  like  oe  in  doer  ;  as  in  luan,  Monday, 
pronounced  loo-an. 

8.  The  following  are  the  sounds  of  the  eight 
diphthongs  that  are  sometimes  long  and 
sometimes  short.  When  these  diphthongs  are 
long  there  is  an  accent  over  one  of  the  vowels : 
when  short  there  is  no  accent. 

9.  di  long  has  an  accent  over  the  a,  and  sounds 
something  like  the  awi  in  drawing ;  as  in  cam, 
tribute,  pronouncea  caw-tn. 

ai  short  is  sounded  something  like  the  a  in 
valiant  or  the  o  in  collier  ;  as  in  maic,  good,  whose 
sound  is  very  nearly  represented  by  moh. 

In  Ulster,  ai  short  is  pronounced  like  short  e  in 
bell;  as  in  aipioc,  restitution,  which  is  pronounced 
jshoc  in  the  north,  and  ashoc  in  the  south  and  west. 

10.  éa  long  has  an  accent  over  the  e,  and  sounds 


CHAP.  I.J  SOUNDS.  Ó 

like  ea    in    hem;  thus    méap,  a  finger,    is   pro- 
nounced mare. 

ea  short  sounds  like  ea  in  heart  (but  shorter)  ; 
as  in  peap,  knowledge,  pronounced  /ass. 

11.  éi  long  has  an  accent  over  the  e,  and  sounds 
like  ei  in  rein;  as  péim,  a  course,  pronounced  raim. 

ei  short,  like  e  in  **#;  as  in  oeip,  a  basket, 
sounded  like  kesh. 

12.  eo  long  has  an  accent  over  the  o,  and  is 
sounded  nearly  like  long  English  o  with  a  slight 
sound  of  y  before  it ;  as  in  ceól,  music,  which  will 
be  correctly  pronounced  if  a  k  sound  is  put  before 
the  word  yole. 

eo  short,  nearly  like  u  in  shut,  with  y  before  it ; 
as  in  t>eoc,  drink. 

Note. — This  diphthong  is  short  in  only  a  very 
few  words. 

13.  io  long  has  an  accent  over  the  i,  and  sounds 
very  like  ea  in  hear ;  as  in  pion,  wine,  pronounced 
feen  or  fee-on. 

io  short,  nearly  like  short  *;  as  in  miopp,  myrrh, 
which  has  nearly  the  same  sound  as  the  first  syl- 
lable of  mirror. 

14.  iú  long  has  an  accent  over  the  u,  and  has 
the  same  sound  as  the  diphthongal  English  u  in 
tune  ;  as  in  piú,  worthy,  which  is  sounded  exactly 
like  few. 

iu  short  is  sounded  like  the  u  in  put,  with  a  y 
before  it;  as  in  pliuc,  wet. 

15.  oi  long  has  an  accent  over  the  o,  and  is 
sounded  like  the  owi  in  owing  ;  as  in  poll,  a  while, 
pronounced  fo-il. 

oi  short  like  the  o  in  love,  with  a  very  short  i  at 
the  end  ;  as  in  coil,  the  will. 

16.  úi  long,  with  an  accent  over  the  u,  ia 
sounded  like  ooi  in  cooing ;  as  pull,  the  eye,  pro- 
nounced 800-U. 


6  ORTHOGRAPHY.  [PART  I. 

ui  long,  with  an  accent  over  the  i,  has  nearly  the 
same  sound  as  we;  as  in  buioe,  yellow,  which  is 
pronounced  bivee. 

ui  short  is  like  the  uiiu  quill;  as  in  puipeog,  a 
lark,  pronounced  fwit ' 


III.    TRIPHTHONGS. 

1.  There  are  commonly  reckoned  five  triphthongs, 
which  are  always  long: — aoi,  eoi,  lai,  iui,  uai. 

2.  Ooi  is  sounded  very  like  we,  as  in  maoin, 
wealth,  pronounced  mween. 

3.  Goi  is  sounded  like  the  yoi  in  the  combination 
yo-ing  ;  as  in  peoil,  flesh,  which  will  be  correctly 
pronounced  if  the  sound  of  /  is  put  before  the 
combination  yo-il. 

4.  lai  is  sounded  like  eei  in  seeing ;  as  liaig,  a 
physician. 

5.  Iui  like  the  ewi  in  mewing ;  as  ciuin,  gentle. 

6.  Uai  like  ooi  in  cooing;  as  buail,  strike,  which 
is  sounded  hoo-il. 

7.  The  preceding  attempts  to  represent  the  sounds  of  the 
diphthongs  and  triphthongs  are  in  many  cases  mere  approxima- 
tions. The  student  must  hear  them  pronounced,  and  in  no 
other  way  is  it  possible  to  learn  to  sound  them  correctly. 


IV.    VARIOUS    SOUNDS. 

1.  a  and  o  before  m,  nn,  11,  or  n^,  in  mono- 
syllables, and  often  before  nc  and  nc,  are  sounded 
in  Munster  like  the  ou  in  foul;  as  cam,  crooked, 
and  coll,  hazel,  pronounced  cowm  and  cowl;  and 
gleanncdn,  a  small  glen,  pronounced  glounthaun : 
and  o  before  6  and  $  has  often  the  same  sound ; 
as  poslaim,  learning,  pronounced  fowlim. 

2.  Qó  and  a£  are  often  sounded  like  long 
English  i  in  fine ;  as  paftapc,  sight,  pronounced 


CHAT.  I.]  SOUNDS.  7 

ry-arh;  labap,  a  fork,  pronounced  lyre;  niabm,  a 
breach,  pronounced  mime. 

3.  The  termination  ao  is  pronounced  in  Con- 
naught  nearly  the  same  as  oo  :  thus  bualab,  strik- 
ing, is  pronounced  looloo  in  Connaught,  but  boola 
in  Munster. 

4.  In  the  combination  Dl,  the  b  is  silent,  and 
the  whole  is  sounded  like  I  or  11 ;  as  coblcib,  sleep, 
pronounced  culla. 

5.  In  the  combination  In,  the  n  is  silent,  and  the 
whole  is  sounded  like  I  or  11 ;  as  coin  a,  of  a  body, 
pronounced  culla. 

6.  In  the  combination  bn,  the  t>  is  silent,  and 
the  whole  is  sounded  the  same  as  n  or  nn ;  as 
céabna,  the  same,  pronounced  Jcaina. 

7.  Final  e  is  never  entirely  silent  in  Irish  as  it 
is  in  English;  thus  mine,  smoothness,  is  pro- 
nounced meena.  In  some  situations  it  is  very 
nearly  silent  in  the  modern  language ;  as  in 
cnoibe,  a  heart,  pronounced  cree. 

8.  There  are  some  Irish  consonants  which,  when 
they  come  together  in  a  word,  do  not  coalesce  in 
sound,  so  that  when  they  are  uttered,  a  very  short 
obscure  vowel  sound  is  heard  between  them. 

This  generally  occurs  in  the  case  of  two  liquids, 
or  a  liquid  and  a  mute.  Thus  lop  5,  a  track,  is 
pronounced  so  as  to  seem,  to  an  ear  accustomed  to 
English,  a  word  of  two  syllables;  not  lurg  but 
lurrug.  Dealb,  a  shape,  is  sounded,  not  dah,  but 
dallcw ;  peapb,  bitter,  is  sounded  sharrav ;  bopb, 
proud,  is  pronounced  hirrub ;  C0I5,  a  sword, 
cullug,  and  so  on.  In  Irish  prosody,  however, 
such  words  as  these  count  as  only  one  syllable. 

In  the  English  language  no  such  difficulty  exists 
in  regard  to  most  of  these  letters ;  they  coalesce 
perfectly  in  sound,  so  that  each  of  the  above 
words  would  be  a  pure  monosyllable. 


$  ORTHOGRAPHY.  [PART  t. 

CHAPTEE    II. 

LETTER  CHANGES. 
I.    ASPIRATION. 

1.  The  term  "aspiration"  is  used  to  express  a 
certain  change  of  sound  suffered  by  some  of  the 
Irish  consonants  under  certain  grammatical  con- 
ditions. 

2.  It  is  impossible  to  give  a  definition  of  aspiration  that 
will  correctly  describe  all  the  cases,  inasmuch  as  the  changes 
of  sound  vary  in  kind  with  the  several  consonants.  In  most 
cases  the  change  caused  by  aspiration  is  one  from  an  explosive 
to  a  continuous  sound. 

3.  There  are  nine  consonants  which  can  be 
aspirated,  namely,  b,  c,  b,  p,  5,  m,  p,  p,  c ;  these 
are  called  mutable  or  aspirable  consonants ;  the 
others  are  called  immutable.  The  aspiration  is 
denoted  either  by  placing  a  point  over  the  con- 
sonant, as  c ;  or  by  placing  h  after  it,  as  ch. 

4.  The  following  are  the  sounds  of  the  aspirated 
consonants  so  far  as  they  can  be  represented  by 
English  letters. 

5.  t>h  or  b  is  sounded  sometimes  like  v  and  some- 
times like  w,  and  it  often  has  a  sound  something 
between  both ;  as  a  bean,  his  wife,  pronounced 
a  van  ;  ^abal,  a  fork,  pronounced  gowal. 

6.  Ch  broad  has  a  guttural  sound  which  is  not 
represented  in  English ;  but  it  is  heard  in  the  pro- 
nunciation of  the  word  lough,  Irish  loc,  a  lake. 

Ch  slender  (i.e.  joined  with  a  slender  vowel)  has 
a  less  guttural  sound  than  c  broad;  as  miciall, 
folly,  in  which  the  c  sound  is  only  a  little  more 
guttural  than  h  in  mee-heel. 

7.  T)h  and  5  have  the  same  sound.  When  slender, 
they  are  sounded  like  initial  y  in  English;  as 
a  gecm,   his  love,  pronounced  a  yan.    T)h  and  & 


CIIAl'.  II.]  LETTER    CHANGES.  9 

broad  have  a  guttural  sound  which  cannot  be  re- 
presented by  English  letters,  though  it  is  some- 
thing- like  initial  y  or  initial  to  ;  it  stands  to  the 
guttural  sound  of  broad  c  in  the  relation  of  flat  to 
hard.  Both  these  aspirated  letters  are  silent  at 
the  end  of  a  word;  as  piaó,  a  deer,  pronounced/^-». 
But  in  south  Minister  the  final  g  is  fully  sounded,  like  g 
in  fig  :  as  Copcaig  (dative  of  Copcac,  Cork),  pronounced 
curkig  in  Minister,   but  curlcec  elsewhere. 

8.  ph  is  always  silent;  thus  a  pi  op,  his  know- 
ledge, is  pronounced  a  iss  ;  an  peaoog,  the  plover, 
pronounced  an  addoge. 

9.  lllli  is  very  nearly  the  same  as  b,  viz.,  like  v 
or  to  ;  as  a  liiiap,  his  dish,  pronounced  a  vee-as. 

10.  ph  has  the  sound  of  /,  as  a  ]bian,  his  pain, 
pronounced  afee-an. 

11.  Sli  and  ó  are  the  same  as  h  ;  as  a  pal,  his 
heel,  pronounced  a  haul ;  a  éobap,  his  well,  pro- 
nounced a  J 


II.    RULES   FOR   ASPIRATION.* 

1.  The  possessive  pronouns  mo,  my;  Do,  thy; 
and  a,  his,  aspirate  the  first  consonant  of  the  next 
word  :  as  mo  bo,  my  cow ;  t)0  cecmii,  thy  head  ; 
a  gopc,  his  garden. 

2.  The  article  aspirates  in  the  singular  feminine 
nominative  and  accusative  ;f  as  an  bean,  the 
woman.     (See  also  p.  18,  Par.  6,  and  p    31.) 

3.  The  article  aspirates  in  the  genitive  singidar 
masculine  ;  as  an  guipc,  of  the  garden. 

*  These  rules  cannot  be  fully  understood  without  a  know- 
ledge of  Etymology.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  they 
apply  only  to  the  aspirable  or  mutable  consonants. 

f  Irish  nouns  have  no  inflection  for  the  accusative  (or  ob- 
jective) case ;  but  it  is  often  convenient  to  speak  of  nouns 
in  the  accusative,  by  which  is  meant  the  case  where  the  noun 
is  the  object  of  a  transitive  verb,  or  sometimes  of  a  preposi- 
tion. 


10  ORTHOGRAPHY.  [PART  I. 

Note. — This  rule  and  the  preceding  do  not  apply  to  the 
letter  p.     (See  also  p.  18,  Par.  6,  and  p.  31.) 

4.  In  compound  words,  the  initial  consonant  of 
the  second  word  of  the  compound  is  aspirated 
(with  a  few  exceptions) :  thus  from  ceann,  a 
head,  and  bpox,  a  garment,  is  formed  ceannbpac, 
head-garment  or  canopy.    (See  also  p.  34,  Par.  2.) 

5.  The  interjections  a  and  O,  as  signs  of  the 
vocative  case,  aspirate  ;  as  a  pip,  0  man. 

6.  An  adjective  agreeing  with  a  noun  has  its 
initial  consonant  aspirated  when  the  noun  is 
nominative  singular  feminine,  or  genitive  singular 
masculine,  or  vocative  singular  of  both  genders ; 
and,  according  to  O'Donovan,  in  the  nominative 
plural  masculine,  when  the  noun  ends  in  a  conso- 
nant ;  as  bó  bdn,  a  white  cow ;  caic  báin,  of  a 
white  cat;  a  pip  n'ióip,  0  great  man;  a  bean 
peirii,  0  mild  woman  ;  capaiU  bona,  white  horses. 
(t>  and  c  are  sometimes  excepted:  see  p.  34.) 

7.  The  initial  consonant  of  a  verb  is  aspirated 
(1)  in  the  infinitive  mood  by  the  particles  Oo  and 
a;  as  bo  óéanaó  or  a  óécmab,  to  do:  (2),  in  the 
simple  past  tense,  active  voice  ;  as  bo  peap  pé,  lie 
stood :  (3)  by  the  particles  ni,  not,  and  má, 
if:  as  ni  beib  pi,  she  will  not  be;  md  peapann 
pé,  if  he  stands;  (4),  by  the  relative  a,  who, 
(expressed  or  understood) ;  as  an  có  a  buaileap 
the  person  who  strikes.     (See  also  pp.  58  and  60.) 

8.  The  simple  prepositions,  with  some  excep- 
tions, aspirate  the  initial  consonants  of  nouns  :  as 
aip  bdpp,  on  top;  Oo  lfmllac,  to  a  summit;  paoi 
$ean,  under  affection. 

III.   ECLIPSIS. 

1.  A  consonant  is  said  to  be  eclipsed,  or  to  suffer 
eclipsis,  when  its  sound  is  suppressed,  and  th- 
sound  of  another  consonant  which  is  prefixed  to 
it,  substituted:  thus  in  n-odn,  0  is  eclipsed  b}T  n 


CHAP.  II.]  LETTER  CHANGES.  11 

and  the  whole  word  is  pronounced  nawn,  whereas 
ban  is  pronounced  daivn.  It  is  only  at  the  be- 
ginning of  words  that  consonants  are  eclipsed. 

2.  The  following  eight  consonants  can  be 
eclipsed: — b,  c,  b,  p,  5,  p,  p,  c;  the  others  cannot. 
Between  the  eclipsing  and  the  eclipsed  letter  there 
is  usually  placed  a  hyphen,  as  m-bdpb ;  but  often 
they  are  put  together  without  any  separating 
mark,  as  bpopc.  Sometimes  eclipsis  is  denoted 
by  the  doubling  of  the  eclipsed  letter;  thus 
a  ccapb  is  the  same  as  a  b-capb,  their  bull. 

3.  Each  consonant  has  an  eclipsing  letter  of 
its  own. 

4.  t)  is  eclipsed  by  m  :  as  a  m-bdpb,  their  bard, 
pronounced  a  mawrd. 

5.  C  is  eclipsed  by  5  :  as  a  5- coll,  their  hazel, 
pronounced  a  gowl  or  a  gull. 

6.  t)  by  n  ;  as  a  n-bop,  their  bush,  pronounced 
a  nuss. 

7.  p  by  b  (which  itself  sounds  like  v  or  w) ;  as 
a  b-peapcmn,  their  land,  pronounced  a  varran. 

8.  5  is  eclipsed  by  n.  But  this  is  not  a  true 
eclipsis,  for  the  resulting  sound  is  not  that  of  n, 
but  the  sound  of  English  ng ;  thus  a  n^ioHa, 
their  servant,  is  pronounced  ang-itta. 

9.  p  is  eclipsed  by  b ;  as  a  b-picm,  their  pain, 
pronounced  a  bee-an. 

10.  S  is  eclipsed  by  c,  as  in  an  c-púil,  the  eye, 
pronounced  an  too-il. 

11.  C  is  eclipsed  by  b ;  as  a  b-cál,  their  adze, 
pronounced  a  clawl. 

IY.    RULES    FOR    ECLITSIS.* 

1.  The  possessive  pronouns    plural — dp,  our. 

*  These  rules  apply  of  course  only  to  those  consonants 
that  can  be  eclipsed.  The  rules  for  eclipsis,  like  those  for 
aspiration,  suppose  a  knowledge  of  Etymology. 


12  ORTHOGRAPHY.  [PART.  I. 

uup,  your;  a,  their;  eclipse  the  initial  consonant 
of  the  next  word ;  as  áp  b-ci$eapna,  our  Lord ; 
blip  5-cpann,  your  tree  ;  a  b-pdipc,  their  field.* 

2.  The  article  eclipses  the  initial  consonant  of 
nouns  in  the  genitive  plural;  as  ceac  na  m-bdpb, 
the  house  of  the  bards;  <5°PC  na  5-capaU,  the 
field  of  the  horses. 

3.  When  a  simple  preposition  is  followed  by 
the  article  and  a  noun  in  the  singular  number,  the 
initial  consonant  of  the  noun  is  generally  eclipsed ; 
as  dip  an  m-bópb,  on  the  table;  ó'n  b-paipge,  from 
the  sea.     (See  p.  31 ;  see  also  Syntax.) 

4.  The  initial  consonant  of  a  verb  is  eclipsed 
after  the  interrogative  particles  a,  an,  cd,  nac;  also 
after  50,  that;  inuna,  unless;  lap,  after;  bd,  if; 
and  after  the  relative  a  preceded  by  a  preposition ; 
as  am-beipeann  pe?  Does  he  bear?  an  m-buail- 
eann  cú  ?  Dost  thou  strike?  cd  b-puil  pi? 
Where  is  she ?  nacb-cuigeann  cu?  Dostthounot 
understand?  50  m-beannaige  t>ia  buic,  may 
God  bless  thee ;  inuna  b-cuicpip,  unless  thou  shalt 
fall;  t)á  n-beappainn,  if  I  would  say  ;  an  rip  ann 
a  b-camic  piab,  the  country  into  which  they 
came. 

5.  When  a  noun  beginning  with  p  is  preceded 
by  the  article,  the  p  is  eclipsed  when  the  noun  is 
nominative  feminine,  or  genitive  masculine,  and 
generally  in  the  dative  of  both  genders,  as  an 
c-paoippe(fem.),  the  freedom;  ^opcan  c-pagaipc, 
the  field  of  the  priest ;  aip  an  c-paogal,  or  ap  an 
paogal,  in  the  world.  But  if  the  p  is  followed  by 
b,  c,  b,  5,  m,  p,  or  c,  it  is  not  eclipsed  ;  as  ^leann 
an  pmóil,  the  valley  of  the  thrush  ;  loc  an  pcdil, 
the  lake  of  the  champion.     (See  pp.  30  and  31.) 

*  Rules  1,  2,  3,  4,  do  not  apply  to  p.  See  for  this  letter 
Ruie  5. 


CHAP.  II.]  LETTER    CIIANGES.  13 

6.  The  following  rule  is  usually  given  with  the 
rules  for  eclipsis  : — 

When  a  word  begins  with  a  vowel,  the  letter 
n  is  generally  prefixed  in  all  cases  where  an 
initial  consonant  (except  p)  would  be  eclipsed  ;  as 
a  n-apdn,  their  bread  ;  loc  na  n-écm,  the  lake  of 
the  birds.* 


v.   Caollecaol  agup  leaócm  le  leacan,  or  slen- 
der WITH  SLENDER  AND  BROAD  WITH  BROAD.f 

1.  If  a  consonant  or  any  combination  of  conso- 
nants comes  between  two  vowels,  they  must  be 
either  both  slender  or  both  broad ;  thus  in  polap, 
light,  the  o  and  the  a  are  both  broad  vowels;  and  in 
cmneap,  sickness,  the  1  and  the  e  are  both  slender 
vowels.  But  such  combinations  as  polip  and 
cinnap  are  not  allowable,  because  the  o  and^the  1 
in  the  first  case,  and  the  1  and  the  a  in  the  second 
case,  are  one  of  them  broad  and  the  other  slender. 

2.  In  compliance  with  this  rule,  when  two  words,  or  a 
word  and  a  syllable,  are  joined  together,  so  that  in  the  result- 
ing word  a  consonant  or  consonantal  combination  would  fall 
between  two  vowels,  one  of  them  broad  and  the  other  slender, 
then  either  the  broad  vowel  must  be  made  slender  or  the 
slender  one  broad,  to  bring  them  to  an  agreement. 

3.  Sometimes  the  broad  vowel  is  changed  to  make  it  agree 
with  the  slender  vowel ;  sometimes  the  slender  vowel  is  made 
broad  to  agree  with  the  broad  vowel ;  sometimes  it  is  the 
vowel  before  the  consonant  that  is  changed  ;  sometimes  the 
change  is  made  in  the  vowel  after  the  consonant.  A  prefix 
is  generally  changed  to  suit  the  word  it  is  joined  to,  not  the 
reverse  ;  thus  when  com  is  prefixed  to  peaparh,  standing,  the 
word  is  cóntipeaparh,  competition,  not  corhpaparh. 

*  For  a  very  detailed  and  clear  statement  of  the  laws  of 
aspiration  and  eclipsis,  see  the  Second  Irish  Book  by  the 
Society  for  the  preservation  of  the  Irish  Language. 

fThis  rule  is  very  generally,  but  not  universally,  followed 
in  the  Irish  language. 


14  ORTHOGRAPHY.  [PART  I. 

4.  Changing  a  broad  vowel  to  a  slender  is  called  in  Irish 
caolujjaO  (i.e.,  making  slender,  from  caol,  slender),  and  in 
English  attenuation  ;  changing  from  slender  to  broad  is  called 
in  Irish  leacnu^aO  (i.e.,  making  broad,  from  leacan,  broad). 

5.  Attenuation  takes  place  chiefly  in  two  ways  : — first  by 
putting  a  slender  vowel  between  the  broad  vowel  and  the 
consonant,  as  when  ball,  a  spot,  is  changed  to  baill,  spots ; 
or  when  p<3  is  postfixed  to  buail,  and  the  resulting  word  is 
buailped,  not  buailpd :  secondly,  by  removing  the  broad 
vowel  which  precedes  or  follows  the  consonant,  and  putting 
a  slender  vowel  in  its  place  ;  as  when  ceann,  a  head,  ie 
changed  to  cmn,  of  a  head. 

6.  In  like  manner  "  making  broad  "  takes  place  chiefly  in 
two  ways,  which  are  the  reverse  of  the  two  preceding. 

7.  The  following  examples  will  illustrate  the  preceding 
rules  and  remarks : — 

8.  When  the  future  termination  pat)  is  added  to  buail,  the 
resulting  word  is  not  buailpat),  but  buailpeat»,  I  shall  strike. 

9.  When  the  infinitive  termination  at)  is  added  to  buail, 
the  resulting  word  is  not  buailaO  but  bualaO. 

10.  When  mop,  great,  is  prefixed  to  cion,  love,  the  com- 
pound is  not  niópcion  but  móipcion,  great  love. 

11.  When  ceann,  head,  is  prefixed  to  licip,  a  letter,  the 
compound  is  not  ceannlicip  but  cmnlicip,  a  head-letter  or 
capital  letter.     (This  is  a  case  of  irregular  attenuation.) 

12.  When  the  diminutive  termination  65  is  added  tocuil, 
the  resulting  word  is  not  CU1I65  but  cuileóg,  a  fly. 

13.  When  e  is  added  to  opbóg,  a  thumb,  to  inflect  it  for  the 
genitive,  the  word  is  not  opOóse  but  opbóise,  of  a  thumb. 

14.  When  the  diminutive  termination  in  is  added  to  ca- 
pall,  a  horse,  the  whole  word  is  not  capallin  but  capaillin. 


VI.    SYNCOPE. 

1.  Syncope,  or  the  omission  of  one  or  more  letters 
from  the  body  of  a  word,  is  very  common  in  Irish. 

2.  When  a  short  vowel  occurs  between  a  liquid 
(I,  n,  p,  or  p)  and  a  mute,  or  between  two  liquids, 
the  word  is  often  syncopated  when  it  is  lengthened 
either  by  grammatical  inflection  or  otherwise. 


CIIAP.  II.]  LETTER  CHANGES.  15 

3.  The  syncope  generally  consists  in  the  omis- 
sion of  the  short  vowel ;  but  this  change  often  in- 
volves others  in  accordance  with  the  rule  caol  le 
caol  &c. ;  and  is  often  also  accompanied  by  some 
slight  consonantal  changes. 

4.  The  following  examples  exhibit  the  chief 
types  of  syncope. 

5.  Ldnarha,  a  married  couple  ;  plural  Idnariina, 
contracted  from  Idnaiiiana. 

6.  Lapaip,  aflame;  plural  lappaca,  contracted 
from  lapapaca. 

7.  pocal,  a  word  ;  poclóip,  a  dictionary,  con- 
tracted from  pocalóip. 

8.  Sonbip,  rich;  comparative  paibpe,  contracted 
from  paibipe. 

9.  Cacaip,  a  city;  genitive  coxpac,  contracted 
from  coxcipac. 

10.  piaiceani ail,  princely;  comparative  plaice- 
ariila,  contracted  from  pkncearhala. 

11.  Colann,  the  body,  genitive  colna,  (sometimes 
colla),  contracted  from  colann  a. 

12.  Cap  a,  genitive  cap  ab:  the  plural  is  formed  by 
adding  e  to  this,  which  syncopates  the  second  a  : 
this  would  make  capoe,  which  again,  in  accordance 
with  the  rule  caol  le  caol  &c,  is  made  caipbe. 

13.  Uapal,  noble,  becomes  uaiple  in  the  com- 
parative, by  a  process  exactly  similar  to  the  last. 

14.  pollup,  evident,  becomes  poillpe  in  the  com- 
parative in  a  similar  way. 

15.  Gbann,  a  river  :  the  plural  is  formed  by  add- 
ing e ;  this  causes  syncope  of  the  second  a  and  the 
omission  of  one  n,  which  would  make  the  plural 
abne  ;  and  this  again  becomes  aibne,  by  the  rule 
caol  le  caol  &c. 

16.  Labaip,  speak  (imperative  mood);  labpaim, 
I  speak,  contracted  from  lab  a  p  aim, 


16  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART 


PART  II. 
ETYMOLOGY. 


1.  There  are  nine  parts  of  speech  in  Irish,  which 
are  the  same  as  those  in  English. 


CEAPTEE    I. 

THE  ARTICLE. 
I.    CHANGE  OF  POEM  IN  THE  ARTICLE. 

1.  The  Irish  language  has  one  article,  an,  which 
has  the  same  meaning  as  the  English  definite 
article  the. 

2.  The  article  changes  its  form  according  to 
number,  gender,  and  case. 

3.  In  the  singular  number  the  article  has  the 
form  an  in  all  the  cases  except  the  genitive  femi- 
nine, in  which  it  becomes  na ;  as  caipledn  na 
cipce,  the  castle  of  the  hen. 

In  the  plural  number  the  article  is  always  na. 

4.  In  the  spoken  language  the  n  of  an  is  often  omitted 
before  a  consonant;  as  ceann  a  caipb,  the  head  of  the  bull. 
And  this  is  sometimes  found  in  books  also,  both  printed  and 
MS.,  but  it  is  not  to  be  recommended. 

5.  When  an  follows  a  preposition  ending  in  a  vowel,  the  a 
is  often  omitted  in  writing,  but  the  omission  is  usually  marked 
by  an  apostrophe;  thus,  6  an  cip,  from  the  land,  is  written 
ó'n  cíp  ;  and  pd  an  n5pf:m,  under  the  sun,  is  written  pa'n 
njspéin. 


CHAP.    I.J  THE    ARTICLE.  17 

Very  often  in  MSS.,  and  sometimes  in  printed  books,  the 
apostrophe  in  such  cases  is  omitted,  and  the  n  of  the  article 
joined  with  the  preposition ;  as  ón  cíp,  ptín  njupéin. 

6.  In  the  plural  the  article  (na)  is  often  joined  to  the  pre- 
position ;  as  bona,  for  t>o  na. 

7.  The  letter  p  is  inserted  between  certain  prepositions  and 
the  article  an  ;  and  this  occasionally  leads  to  combinations 
that  might  puzzle  a  learner.  Thus  ann  an  leabap,  in  the 
book,  is  written  annp  an  leabap,  and  ip  an  leabap,  which 
is  still  further  shortened  to  pan  leabap  :  also  (omitting  the 
n)  annpa  leabap,  and  even  pa  leabap.  And  in  the  plural, 
ip  na  coppaib,  "  in  the  bodies  " 


II.    CHANGES  PRODUCED  BY  THE  ARTICLE. 

1 .  The  article  produces  certain  changes  in  the 
initial  letters  of  nonns  to  which  it  is  prefixed. 

2-  These  changes  are  very  important,  and  the  learner  will 
obtain  a  clearer  view  of  them  by  separating  the  singular  from 
the  plural.     For  more  on  this  subject,  see  page  31. 

SINGULAR. 

1.  If  the  noun  begins  with  an  aspirable  con- 
sonant (except  p,  c,  b),  the  article  aspirates  in  the 
nominative  feminine,  and  in  the  genitive  mascu- 
line; as  an  bó,  the  cow;  cucm  an  pip  riioip,  the 
harbour  of  the  great  man. 

2.  If  the  noun  begins  with  p,  followed  by  a 
vowel  or  by  I,  n,  or  p,  the  p  is  eclipsed  by  c  in 
those  cases  where,  according  to  the  last  rule,  a 
mutable  consonant  would  be  aspirated ;  as  an 
c-pdl  (fern.),  the  heel ;  an  c-ppón  (fern.),  the  nose; 
luac  an  c-ppiam  (masc),  the  price  of  the  bridle. 

3.  If  the  noun  begins  with  a  vowel,  the  article 
prefixes  c  to  the  nominative  masculine,  and  h  to 
the  genitive  feminine  ;  as  an  c-acaip,  the  father  ; 
Leabap  na  h-uiope,  the  book  of  the  dun  (cow). 

4.  If  the  noun  begins  with  an  eclipsable  con- 
sonant (except  b  or  c),  the  article  generally  eclipses, 
if  it  be  preceded  by  a  simple  preposition  ;  as  aip 


18  ETYMOLOGY.  [PABT   II. 

an  5-cpann,  on  the  tree;  ó'n  b-pocal  ibep,  "from 
the  word  '  iber  ;'  "  leip  an  b-pean,  with  the  man. 

5.  But  after  the  prej)Ositions  bo  and  be,  the 
article  aspirates  oftener  than  it  eclipses;  asceiépe 
céime  bo'n  cpiop,  four  degrees  of  the  zone  (Keat- 
ing) ;  bo  leanabap  a  5-copa  bo'n  cappai^,  their 
feet  clung  to  the  rock  (story  of  the  Children  of  Lir). 

6.  No  change  is  produced  by  the  article  in  the 
singular  number,  if  the  noun  begins  with  I,  n,  p, 
b,  c,  or  with  p  before  a  mute. 

PLURAL. 

1.  If  the  noun  begins  with  an  eclipsable  con- 
sonant, the  article  eclipses  in  the  genitive;  as 
imp  na  b-píobbaó,  [the]  island  of  the  woods;  cailin 
beap  cpúióce  na  m-bo,  [the]  pretty  girl  of  [the] 
milking  of  the  cows  (i.e.,  the  pretty  milking  girl). 

2.  If  the  noun  begins  with  a  vowel,  the  article 
prefixes  n  to  the  genitive,  and  h  to  the  other 
cases;  as  cíp  na  n-ó^,  the  land  of  the  young 
(people) ;  6  na  h-dicib  pin,  from  those  places. 

These  are  the  only  changes  produced  by  the 
article  in  the  plural. 


CHAPTEE    II. 

THE  NOUN. 
I.    GENDER. 

1.  There  are  only  two  genders  in  the  Irish 
language,  the  masculine  and  feminine  :  all  Irish 
nouns,  therefore,  are  either  masculine  or  feminine 
gender. 

2.  In  ancient  Irish  there  was  a  neuter  gender,  but  no  trace 
of  it  remains  in  the  modern  language. 

3.  To  know  and  remember  the  gender  of  all  ordinary  Irish 
nouns  is  one  of  the  great  difficulties  in  learning  the  language, 


CHAP,    II.]  THE   NOUN.  19 

as  it  is  in  learning-  French  and  many  other  languages.  With- 
out this  knowledge,  which  can  only  be  mastered  by  practice, 
no  one  can  speak  or  write  Irish  correctly. 

4.  There  are  a  few  general  rules  which  will  very  much 
help  the  learner  to  distinguish  the  gender  of  nouns :  they 
are  only  general  rules,  however,  subject  to  many  exceptions  ; 
and  where  they  do  not  apply,  the  student  must  depend  on 
practice  and  memory, 

MASCULINE. 

1.  The  following  nouns  are  generally  masculine: — 
(1.)  Names  of  males ;  as  coileac,  acock;  laoc 

a  hero ;  Feap,  a  man. 

(2.)  Nouns  of  more  than  one  syllable,  ending 
in  a  consonant,  or  two  consonants,  preceded  by 
a  broad  vowel ;  as  boicceall,  churlishness :  except 
(a),  derivatives  in  ace ;  (i),  diminutives  in  65. 

(3.)  Nouns  ending  in óip,  aipe,  ac,  aióe  (or  oióe, 
or  uióe),  when  they  denote  personal  agents,  as  they 
generally  do ;  as  ppealaoóip,  a  mower ;  peal^aipe, 
a  hunter;  ceiceapnac,  a  soldier — one  of  a  body  of 
herns;  p^éalaióe  orp^éuluióe,  a  story-teller. 

(4.)  Diminutives  in  cm  and  abstracts  in  ap;  as 
coiledn,  a  whelp  ;  cdipoeap,  friendship. 

(5.)  Diminutives  in  in  are  of  the  same  gender  as  the  nouns 
from  which  they  are  derived. 

FEMININE. 

2.  The  following  nouns  are  generally  femi- 
nine : — 

(1).  Names  of  females  ;  names  of  countries, 
rivers,  and  diseases ;  as  ceapc,  a  hen  ;  Gipe,  Ire- 
land; beapba,  the  Barrow;  pldi$,  a  plague. 

(2).  Diminutives  in  05,  and  derivatives  in  ace ; 
as  puipeó^,  a  lark ;  curhpacc,  fragrance  :  and  ab- 
stract nouns  formed  from  the  genitive  feminine  of 
adjectives;  as  t)ai lie,  blindness 


20  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART   II. 

(3).  Nouns  ending  in  a  consonant,  or  in  two 
consonants,  preceded  by  a  slender  vowel  (except 
those  inóip);  as  pull,  the  eye  ;  pógluim,  learning. 


II.     DECLENSIONS. 


1.  Irish  nonns  have  four  cases,  that  is,  four 
different  inflections,  to  express  relation  : — Nomi- 
native, genitive,  dative,  and  vocative. 

2.  The  nominative  case  is  the  same  as  the 
nominative  in  English. 

3.  The  genitive  is  the  same  as  what  is  called 
the  possessive  case  in  English. 

4.  The  dative  is  the  case  where  a  noun  is 
governed  by  a  prepositio  n. 

5.  The  vocative  case  is  the  same  as  what  is 
called  the  nominative  of  address  in  English. 

6.  Irish  nouns  have  different  forms  for  these  four  cases, 
and  for  no  others.  Thus,  the  four  cases  of  bpaoan,  a  salmon, 
are  for  the  plural  number,  as  follows: — Nom.  bpabám,  as 
cpi  bpabdm,  three  salmons  ;  gen.  bpabdn,  as  loc  na 
m-bpat>dn,  the  lake  of  the  salmons  ;  dat.  bpabdnaib,  as  bo 
na  bpabdnaib,  to  .  the  salmons  ;  voc.  bpabdna,  as  a 
bpabdna,  ca  b-puil  pib  05  but?  "O  ye  salmons,  whither 
are  ye  going  ?" 

7.  These  four  cases  are  not  always  different  in  form  ;  thus 
the  four  cases  of  the  same  noun  in  the  singular  number 
are: — Nom,  bpabdn  ;  gen.  bpabdin  ;  dat.  bpabdn  ;  voc. 
bp abdin  ;  in  whieh  it  will  be  seen  that  the  dative  is  the 
same  as  the  nominative,  and  the  vocative  the  same  as  the 
genitive. 

8.  Those  cases  whicn  aw  alifce  in  form  are  distinguished 
by  the  sense  ;  just  as  the  nominative  and  objective  cases  are 
distinguished  in  English. 

9.  Some  writers  on  Irish  grammar  have  put  in  two  more 
cases,  in  imitation  of  Latin  declension  ;  the  accusative  (or,  as 
it  is  called  in  English,  the  objective)  and  the  ablative.  But 
in  1 ;- i -*  1 )  there  are  no  separate  inflections  ior  them,  the  accu- 
sative beinsr  alunvs   the   .same  in  form  as  Gig  nominative. 


CHAP.    II."]  THE   NOUN.  21 

and  the  ablative  the  same  as  tne  dative  ;  so  that  it  would  bo 
only  a  useless  puzzle  to  the  learner  to  include  thern  in  a  state- 
ment of  Irish  declension.  In  certain  explanations,  however, 
and  in  the  statement  of  certain  rules,  it  is  sometimes  con- 
venient to  sneak  of  the  accusative  case. 

10.  Different  nouns  have  different  inflections  for 
the  same  case ;  thus  the  datives  singular  of  cop, 
a  foot,  and  bop,  a  bush,  are  different,  namely, 
coip  and  bop.  But  though  this  variation  ex- 
tends to  most  of  the  cases,  the  genitive  singular 
is  taken  as  the  standard,  in  comparing  the  de- 
clension of  one  noun  with  the  declension  of  an- 
other. 

11.  There  are  five  chief  ways  of  forming  the 
genitive  singular  of  Irish  nouns;  and  in  one  or 
another  of  these  ways,  far  the  greatest  number  of 
nouns  in  the  language  form  their  genitive.  There 
are  usually  reckoned,  therefore,  five  declensions 
of  Irish  nouns. 

12.  Besides  these  there  are  other  genitive  inflections,  but 
as  no  one  of  them  comprises  any  considerable  number  of 
nouns,  it  is  not  considered  necessary  to  lay  down  more  than 
five  declensions.  The  number  of  declensions  is,  however, 
very  much  a  matter  of  convenience ;  and,  accordingly,  in 
some  Irish  grammars,  there  are  more  than  five,  and  in  some 
less. 

FIRST     DECLENSION. 

1.  The  first  declension  comprises  masculine 
nouns  which  have  their  characteristic  vowel,  that  is, 
the  last  vowel  of  the  nominative  singular,  broad. 

2.  The  genitive  singular  is  formed  by  attenuat- 
ing the  broad  vowel. 

3.  In  the  singular,  the  dative  is  like  the  nomi- 
native, and  the  vocative  is  bike  the  genitive;  in 
the  plural,  the  nominative  is  generally  like  the 
genitive  singular,  and  the  genitive  like  the  nomi- 
native singular.  Example,  ball,  a  member  or 
limb. 


22  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 


ETYMOLOGY. 

Singular. 

Plural. 

Noin.*  ball.                   Norn. 

baill. 

Gen.      baill.                  Gen. 

ball. 

Dat.      ball.                    Dat. 

ballaib. 

Voc.      a  baill.              Voc. 

a  balla 

4.  The  number  of  nouns  that  belong  to  this  declension  is 
very  large;  but  though  they  all  form  their  genitive  singular 
in  the  same  way  (except  those  hi  aó,  in  which  there  is  a  slight 
additional  change,  for  which  see  next  paragraph),  there  area 
few  which  vary  in  the  formation  of  other  cases. 

5.  Nouns  in  ac,  in  addition  to  the  attenuation, 
change  c  into  §  in  the  genitive  singular ;  and 
generally  f  orm  the  nominative  plural  by  adding 
e  to  the  genitive  singular  ;  and  from  this  again  is 
formed  the  dative  plural  in  l b,  in  accordance  with 
the  rule  in  Par.  9,  page  23.  Example,  mapcac,  a 
horseman. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Nom.  mapcac.  Nom.  mapcaige. 

Gen.    mapcai<5.  Gen.    mapcac 

Dat.    mapcac.  Dat.    mapcaigib. 

Voc.     a  Thapcaig.  Voc.     a  Thapcuca. 

6.  A  few  nouns  make  their  nominative  plural 
by  an  increase  in  a ;  aspeann,  a  pen;  plur.  pearma: 
and  some  of  these  are  syncopated,  as  uball,  an 
apple;  plur.  ubla. 

7.  In  a  few  nouns  of  this  declension  the  nomi- 
native plural  is  formed  by  adding  ca  or  ca  to  the 
nominative  singular ;  as  peol,  a  sail ;  nom.  plur. 
peolca  ;  dat.  plur.  peólcaib  :  múp,  a  wall;  nom. 
plur.  mfjpca ;  dat.  plur.  múpcaib. 

8.  In  many  words  of  one  syllable  belonging  to  this  declen- 
sion, the  attenuation  in  the  genitive  singular  causes  consider- 
able change  in  the  vowel  or  diphthongal  part  of  the  word ; 
thus,  copp,  a  body ;  gen.  cuipp  :  íapg,  a  fish ;  gen.  éips  : 


*It  would  be  well  for  the  learner,  when  declining  nouns, 
to  call  this  "  nominative  and  accusative"  all  through  the  de- 
clensions. 


II.  J 


23 


necipc,  strength;  gen.  neipc  or  nipc:  peap,  a  man ;  gen. 
pip:  cpann,  a  tree;  gen.  cpomn  :  beat,  a  mouth;  gen. 
béil  or  beoil. 

The  three  following  rules  (9,  10,  and  11)  apply 
to  all  the  declensions. 

9.  The  dative  plural  ends  in  lb. 

This  lb  corresponds  with  the  Latin  dative  and  ablative 
termination  ibtis  or  bus.  It  is  now  very  seldom  pronounce , . 
but  it  is  nearly  always  retained  in  writing ;  just  as  in  English, 
gh,  which  was  formerly  sounded  as  a  guttural  in  such  words  as 
plough,  daughter,  is  retained  in  writing,  though  it  is  no 
ionger  pronounced. 

10.  The  dative  plural  is  formed  from  the  nomi- 
native plural  whenever  this  latter  differs  from  the 
genitive  singular :  otherwise  from  the  nominative 
singular. 

11.  The  vocative  is  always  preceded  by  the  par- 
ticle a  or  O,  which  aspirates  the  initial;  as  a  pip, 
0  man ;  a  Tiiná,  0  women ;  O  cigeapna,  0  Lord. 

SECOND     DECLENSION. 

1.  The  second  declension  comprises  most  of  the 
feminine  nouns  in  the  language. 

2.  The  genitive  singular  is  formed  by  adding  e 
to  the  nominative.  If  the  characteristic  vowel  is 
broad,  it  must  be  attenuated  in  accordance  with 
the  rule  caol  le  caol  &c. 

3.  The  dative  singular  is  formed  from  the  geni- 
tive singular  by  dropping  the  final  e. 

4.  When  the  characteristic  vowel  is  broad,  the 
nominative  plural  is  formed  from  the  nominative 
singular  by  adding  a  ;  when  the  characteristic 
yowel  is  slender,  by  adding  e. 

5.  The  genitive  plural  is  generally  like  the  nomi- 
native singular. 

6.  The  vocative  is  usually  the  same  as  the  nomi- 
native, and  is  accordingly  omitted  from  the  para- 
digm. 


24  ETYMOLOGY.  |_I'AKT    II. 

First  example,  pecmipóg,  a  shamrock. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Norn,  peampóg.  Nom.  peomiposa. 

Gen.  reampoige.  Gen.  peampóft. 

Dat.   peampóift.  Dat.   peampogmb. 

iSecond  example,  péipc,  a  worm,  a  beast. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Nom.  péipc.  Nom.  péipce. 

Gen.  péipce.  Gen.   peipc. 

Dat.   péipc.  Dat.    péipcib. 

7.  Nouns  in  ac,  when  they  belong  to  this  de- 
clension, change  the  c  to  5  in  the  genitive  singular : 
thus,  cldippeac,  a  harp,  is  declined  as  follows: — 

Singular.  Plural. 

Nom.  cldippeac.  Nom.  cldippeaca. 

Gen.  cldippige.  Gen.  cldippeac. 

Dat.   cldippig.  Dat.    cldippeacaib. 

8.  There  are  many  nouns  belonging  to  this  de- 
clension which  depart  from  the  general  rule  laid 
down  in  Par.  4,  in  forming  their  nominative 
plural. 

9.  Some,  probably  over  fifty,  form  the  nomina- 
tive plural  by  adding  anna;  and  these  form  the 
genitive  plural  by  dropping  the  final  a  of  this  termi- 
nation; thus,  cííip,  a  cause ;  nom.  plural  curpearma; 
gen.  plural,  cúipearm  ;  dat.  plural,  cúipeannaib. 

10.  Some  form  their  nominative  plural  by  adding 
aca  :  thus,  obaip,  a  work,  and  opdib,  a  prayer, 
make  oibpeaca  and  opdibeaca  in  the  nominative 
plural. 

11.  When  the  characteristic  vowel  is  slender,  i': 
is  often  dropped  in  the  genitive  plural ;  as  pucnm, 
a  sound  ;  gen.  plural  puam. 

12.  When  the  nominative  plural  takes  ce,  the 
genitive  plural  is  formed  by  adding  ab ;  as  coill,  a 
wood;  nom.  plur.  coillcc  ;  and  genitive  plural  as 


C1JAP.    II.]  THE   NOUN.  25 

seen  in  Oiledn  na  5-coillceaó,  the  island  of  the 

woods  (Keating). 

13.  There  are  other  variations  of  the  nominative  and 
genitive  plural ;  but  they  do  not  comprise  any  considerable 
number  of  nouns,  and  they  must  be  learned  by  practice. 

THIRD     DECLENSION. 

1.  Nouns  belonging  to  the  third  declension  are 
some  of  them  masculine  and  some  feminine. 

2.  The  genitive  singular  is  formed  by  adding  a 
to  the  nominative  singular. 

3.  The  vocative  is  like  the  nominative. 

4.  The  nominative  plural  is  generally  formed 
by  adding  a  or  e. 

5.  The  genitive  plural  is  generally  like  the 
nominative  singular.  Example,  clear,  a  trick  or 
feat. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Nom.  cleap.  Norn,  cleapa. 

Gen.  cleara.  Gen.  cleap. 

Dat.    cleap.  Dat.  cleapaib. 

6.  If  the  characteristic  vowel  is  slender,  it  must 
be  made  broad  in  the  genitive  singular,  in  accord- 
ance with  the  rule  caol  le  caol  &c.  ;  as  coil,  the 
will,  gen.  cola. 

7.  Sometimes  c  or  c  is  introduced  before  the  a 
of  the  genitive  singular,  which  commonly  causes 
o£her  changes  by  syncope  ;  as  coOail,  sleep  ;  gen. 
coOalca  :  buaióipc,  trouble,  gen.  buaióeapca. 

8.  This  is  the  case  with  verbal  or  participial 
nouns  in  aó,  eaó,  and  ugao,  the  genitives  of  which 
have  the  same  form  as  their  passive  participles 
considered  as  verbs ;  and  they  are  all  commonly 
reckoned  as  belonging  to  this  declension,  though 
the  genitive  singular  is  formed  in  some  by  adding 

3 


26  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART    II. 

e,  not  a;  as  molaó,  praising;  gen,  molca :  píneaó 
stretching;  gen.  pínce:  caolugaó,  making  slender; 
gen.  caoluigée. 

9.  Nouns  in  ace  generally,  and  those  in  ea^  or 
íop,  often,  belong  to  this  declension;  as  clipceacc, 
dexterity  ;  gen.  clipceacca  :  boilgior,  sorrow ; 
gen.  boiljiopa.  But  the  greater  number  of  those 
in  eap  or  lop  belong  to  the  first  declension ;  thus 
the  last  noun,  t>oil$iop,  is  often  made  ttoiljip  in  the 
genitive  ;  and  bpormccmap,  a  gift,  makes  bponn- 
ccmaip. 

10.  There  are  forty  or  fifty  nouns  (many  of  them 
ending  in  íp),  which  form  their  genitive  singular 
in  ac,  and  which  are  reckoned  as  belonging  to 
this  declension,  though  some  writers  arrange  them 
under  a  separate  declension;  as  cacaip,  a  city; 
gen.  cacpac  :  Ceariiaip,  Tara,  gen.  Geariipac  : 
5páin,  hatred ;  gen.  gpdnac. 

11.  Those  in  ip  generally  form  their  genitive 
as  above;  but  accup,  a  father;  mdcaip,  amother; 
and  bpdcaip,  a  brother,  form  their  genitive 
by  dropping  the  final  l : — gen.  acap,  in  d  éap, 
bpdeap. 

12.  Outside  the  general  rule  stated  in  Par.  4 
above,  there  is  considerable  variety  in  the  forma- 
tion of  the  nominative  plural. 

13.  Those  in  óip  generally  make  the  nominative 
plural  by  adding  íóe;  as  ppealat>6ip,  a  mower, 
nom.  plur.  ppealabóipióe. 

14.  And  these  form  the  genitive  plural  variously ; 
generally  na  ppealabóipió,  but  sometimes  na 
ppealabóip  or  na  ppealaoópaó- 

15.  Others  form  the  nominative  plural  either 
like  the  genitive  singular  or  by  adding  nna  to  it; 
as  ppuc,  a  stream;  gen.  ppoca ;  nom.  pi.  ppoca 
or  ppocanna  :  bpuim,  a  back;  gen.  bpoma  ;  nom. 
plur.  t>poma  or  o-pomanna. 


CHAP.    II.J  THE   NOTTS.  27 

16.  Those  that  add  rma,  form  the  genitive  plural 
by  omitting  the  a;  as  ppuc;  gen.  plur.  ppucann. 

17.  Many  nouns  of  this  declension  that  end  in 
n  or  I,  form  their  plural  by  adding  ce  or  ca  ;  as 
móin,  a  bog;  gen.  sing,  mono  ;  nom.  plur.  móince. 

18.  And  these  generally  form  their  genitive 
plural  by  adding  ao  to  the  nominative  plural ;  as 
mom  ;  gen.  plur.  móinceaó. 

'  19.  Those  that  form  their  genitive  singular  in 
ac  (10)  form  the  plural  by  adding  a  to  this  ac : 
as  lapaip,  a  name;  gen.  sing,  lappac  ;  nom.  plur. 
lappaca. 

FOURTH    DECLENSION. 

1.  Nouns  of  the  fourth  declension  end  in  vowels 
or  in  in,  and  are  some  of  them  masculine  and 
some  feminine. 

2.  There  is  no  inflection  in  the  singular,  all  the 
cases  being  alike. 

3.  The  nominative  plural  is  generally  formed  by 
adding  ioe  or  aóa  (with  occasionally  an  obvious 
vowel  change).     Example,  dipne,  a  sloe. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Nom.  tíinne.  Nom.  tíipnioe. 

Gen.  dipne.  Gen.  tíipnea.6. 

Dat.    dipne.  Dat.  dipnioib. 

4.  Some  form  the  plural  by  adding  ce  or  ce : 
asceirme,  afire;  nom.  plur.  ceirmce:  baoi,  a  clown; 
nom.  plur.baoice;  andaicne,  a  commandment,  has 
nom.  plur.  aiceanca. 

5.  These  generally  form  the  genitive  plural,  by 
adding  ó  or  aó  (not  to  the  nominative  singular, 
as  in  the  model,  but)  to  the  nominative  plural :  as 
nom.  plur.  baoice,  clowns;  gen.  plur.  oaoiceaó. 

6.  Nouns  ending  in  aióe,  uióe,  and  aipe,  gener- 
ally belong  to  this  declension;  as  pclábuióe,  a 
slave;  piobaipe.  a  piper. 


28  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART   II. 

FIFTH     DECLENSION. 

1.  Nouns  of  the  fifth  declension  are  mostly 
feminine. 

2.  They  generally  end  in  a  vowel ;  and  they 
form  their  genitive  by  adding  n  or  rm,  and  occa- 
sionally b  or  c. 

3.  The  dative  singular  is  formed  from  the  geni- 
tive by  attenuation. 

4.  The  nominative  plural  is  formed  from  the 
genitive  singular  by  adding  a. 

5.  The  genitive  plural  is  like  the  genitive  singular. 
Example,  uppa,  a  door  jamb. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Nom.  uppa.  Nom.  uppcma. 

G-en.  npran.  Gen.  uppan. 

Dat.    uppam.  Dat.    uppanaib. 

6.  To  this  declension  belong  the  proper  names 
eipe,  Ireland;  gen.  Gipeann,  dat.  Gipmri  :  Glba, 
Scotland;  gen.,  Glbcm,  dat.  Gib  am :  Tlluiiia, 
Munster;  gen.  Til  urn  an,  dat.  TTluThain ;  and  se- 
veral others  of  less  note. 

7.  Cap  a,  a  friend,  is  an  example  of  the  genitive 
in  t>:  nom.  capa:  gen.  capab  ;  dat.  capaib;  nom. 
plur.  cdipbe.  • 

8.  There  is  a  good  deal  of  variety  in  the  forma- 
tion of  the  cases  of  nouns  belonging  to  this  de- 
clension, which  can  only  be  learned  by  practice.* 

IRREGULAR     DECLENSION. 

1.  Some  nouns  are  irregular ;  that  is,  they  are 
not  inflected  in  accordance  with  any  of  the  re- 
gular declensions. 

2.  The  most  important  of  the  irregular  nouns 
are  :* — bean,  a  woman ;  bó,  a  cow ;  bpu,  a  womb ; 

*  For  additional  examples  of  declensions  of  nouns,  both 
regular  and  irregular,  see  Appendix  at  the  end  of  the  book. 


CIIAP.    II.  ]  THE   NOUN.  29 

caopa,  a  sheep;  ceó,  a  fog;  cnó,  a  hut;  cu,  a 
hound ;  "Oia,  God ;  lá,  a  clay ;  mi,  a  month ;  o  or  ua, 
a  grandson.  They  are  declined  as  follows.  (The 
vocative  is  not  given  where  it  is  like  the  nomina- 
tive.) 

bean,  a  woman,  fern. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Noin.  bean.  Nom.  mná. 

Gen.   mntí.  Gen.    ban. 

Dat.    mnaoi.  Dat.    mndib. 

bó,  a  cow,  fern. 

Nom.  bó.  Noin.  bd 

Gen.   bó.  Gen.   bó. 

Dat.    bum.  Dat.    búaib. 

bpú,  a  icomb,  fern. 

Nom.  bntj.  Nom.  bponna. 

Gen.  bnumne  or        Gen.    bponn. 

bponn. 
Dat.    bpomn.  Dat.    bponnaib. 

Caopa,  a  sheep,  fern. 

Nom.  caopa.  Nora,  caoipig, 

Gefi.  caopac.  Gen.  caopac. 

Dat.    caopa.  Dat.  caopcaib. 

Voc.    a  caopa.  Voc.  a  caopca. 

Ceó,  a  fog,  masc. 

Nom.  ceó.  Nom.  ciao. 

Gen.   ciac  or  ceoig.    Gen.   ceo. 
Dat.    ceó.  Dat.    ceócaib. 

Cnó  or  cnú,  a  nut,  masc. 

Nom.  cnó.  Nom.  end,  cnai. 

Gen.   cnó,  cnm.  Gen.   cnóo. 

Dat.    cnó,  cnú.  Dat.    cnaib. 


30  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART   II. 

Cú,  a  hound,  masc,  or/em. 

Noni.  cu.  Nom.  com,  cuin,  cona,  or 

comce. 
Gen.   con.  Gen.  con. 

Dat.  com.  Dat.   conaib. 


Oia,  God,  masc, 

Nora.  t)ia.  Nora.  t)ée,  Déice. 

Gen.   Dé.  Gen.  Oia,  DéiceaÓ. 

Dat.    Oia.  Dat.    t)éib  Déiéib. 

Voc.    aOhéoraDhia.Voc.    a  Ohée,  Ohéice. 

bá,  a  day,  masc, 

Nom.  Id.  Nom.  laece. 

Gen.  lae.  Gen.  laeceab,ld. 

Dat.  Id,  16.  Dat.    laecib. 

TTli,  a  month,  fern. 

Nom.  mi.  Nom.  mior-a. 

Gen.   mip,  mior-a.        Gen.  mior. 
Dat.    mi,  mir-.  Dat.    mior-aib. 

O  or  ua,  a  grandson,  masc. 

Nom.  6,  ua.  Nom.  ui. 

Gen.  i,   ui.  Gen.  ua. 

Dat.  o,   ua.  Dat.   lb,  uib. 

Voc.  a,  ui.  Voc.    a,  ui. 


DECLENSION      OP      THE      ARTICLE 
WITH     THE    NOUN. 

1.  The  initial  changes  produced  by  the  article  in 
the  nouns  to  which  it  is  prefixed  have  been  set 
forth  at  page  17  ;  these  changes  must  be  carefully 
observed  in  declining  nouns  with  the  article. 


CHAP,    II.]  THE   NOUN.  31 

2-  Twelve  typical  examples  are  here  given,  corresponding 
with  the  several  cases  mentioned  in  paragraphs  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
and  6,  pages  17,  18  ;  and  these  examples  include  almost  every 
possible  variety.  There  is  a  good  deal  of  difference  of  usage 
in  the  dative  singular  of  nouns  beginning  with  p. 

3.  The  declension  of  the  singular  number  only  is  given  ; 
the  changes  in  the  plural  are  so  very  simple  (see  page  18; 
that  they  can  present  no  difficulty. 

4.  C0I5,  a  sword,  masc.  Nom.  an  C0I5  ;  gen. 
an  ÓU1I5 ;  dat.  leip  an  5-C0I5  (Par.  4,  p.  17),  or 
bo'n  C0I5  (Par.  5,  p.  18). 

5.  Cailleac,  a  hag,  fern.  Nom.  an  cailleaó ; 
na  caillige ;  dat.  ó'n  ^-caillis  or  t>o'n  caillig. 

6.  Saogal,  the  world,  masc.  Nom.  an  paogal ; 
gen.  an  c-pao$ail;  dat.  ó'n  pao^al  or  t>o'n 
c-paogal  (Par  5,  p.  18). 

7.  Sabóio,  the  Sabbath,  fern.  Nom  an  c-Saboib; 
gen.  na  Sabóibe;  dat.  ó'n  Sabóib  or  bo'n  c-Sabóib 
(Pars.  2  and  5,  pp.  17  and  18.) 

8.  Slac,  a  rod,  fern.  Nom.  an  c-plac;  gen.  na 
plaice;  dat.  leip  an  plaic  or  bo'n  c-plaic. 

9.  Spot,  satin,  masc.  Nom.  an  ppol ;  gen.  an 
c-ppóil ;  dat.  ó'n  ppól  or  bo'n  c-ppól. 

10.  Opal,  an  ass,  masc.  Nom.  an  c-apal ;  gen. 
an  apail ;  dat.  ó'n  apal. 

11.  Imp,  an  island,  fern.  Nom.  an  imp;  gen.  na 
h-mpe;  dat.  bo'n  imp. 

12.  Leac,  a  stone,  fern.  Nom.  an  leac ;  gen.  na 
leice;  dat.  bo'n  leic  (Par.  6,  p.  18). 

13.  t)ile,  a  deluge,  fern.  Nom.  an  bile ;  gen. 
na  bileann  ;  dat.  bo'n  bilmn. 

14.  Sgeul,  a  story,  masc.  Nom.  an  pseul ;  gen 
an  p^éil ;  dat.  6'n  p^eul. 

15.  Speal,  a  scythe,  fern.  Nom.  an  ppeal;  ger. 
na  ppeile ;  dat.  leip  an  ppeil. 


32  ETYMOLOGY.  [PABT   11 

CHAPTEK    III. 

THE  ADJECTIVE, 
I.    DECLENSION   OF   ADJECTIVES. 

1.  In  Irish  the  adjective  changes  its  form 
according  to  the  gender,  case,  and  number  of  the 
noun. 

2.  Adjectives  are  declined  in  much  the  same 
manner  as  nouns ;  but  they  never  take  the  inflec- 
tion lb  in  the  dative  plural  (though  anciently  they 
had  this  inflection  like  nouns) :  the  dative  plural 
of  an  adjective  is  like  the  nominative  plural. 

3.  There  are  usually  reckoned  four  declensions 
of  adjectives. 

4.  The  inflections  of  these  four  declensions  follow  those 
of  the  noun  so  closely,  that  when  the  noun  is  mastered  the 
adjective  presents  no  difficulty. 

FIRST     DECLENSION. 

1.  Adjectives  of  the  first  declension  are  those 
that  end  in  a  consonant  preceded  by  a  broad 
vowel,  as  ban,  white  ;  pliuc,  wet. 

2.  In  the  masculine  gender  (i.e.,  when  the  ad- 
jective belongs  to  a  masculine  noun),  they  are 
declined  the  same  as  nouns  of  the  first  declension 
of  the  type  of  ball,  except  that  the  nominative 
plural  always   ends  in  a. 

3.  In  the  feminine  gender  adjectives  are  de- 
clined the  same  as  nouns  of  the  second  declension 
of  the  type  of  reampós. 

4.  Both  genders  are  alike  in  the  plural.  Ex- 
ample, ban,  white. 


CHAP.  III.]  THE    ADJECTIVE.  33 

Singular,  Plural. 

Masc.      Fern.  Masc.  and  Fern. 

Nom.   ban.    ban.  Horn.  bona. 

Gen.    bám.   bdme.  Gen.    ban. 

Dat.     bdn.    bain.  Dat.      bdna. 

Voc.      bam.  bdn.  Voc.      bdna. 

SECOND     DECLENSION. 

1.  Adjectives  of  the  second  declension  are  those 
that  end  in  a  consonant  preceded  by  a  slender 
vowel. 

2.  In  the  singular,  all  the  cases  of  both  mascu- 
line and  feminine  are  alike,  except  the  genitive 
feminine,  which  takes  e. 

3.  In  the  plural,  both  genders  are  alike,  and  all 
the  cases  except  the  genitive  are  formed  by  adding 
e ;  the  genitive  is  like  the  nominative  singular. 
Example,  min,  smooth,  fine. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Masc.    Fern.  Masc.    and  Fern. 

Nom.   min.    min.  Nom.   mine. 

Gen.    min.    mine.  Gen.    min. 

Dat.    min.     min  Dat.     mine. 

Voc.    min.    min.  Voc.    mine. 

THIRD     DECLENSION. 

1.  Adjectives  of  the  third  declension  are  those 
that  end  in  am  ail,  which  has  the  same  significa- 
tion as  the  English  postfix  like : — bean,  a  woman 
ban  am  ail,  womanlike,  modest. 

2.  The  two  genders  are  always  alike. 

3.  The  four  cases  singular  are  alike  except  the 
genitive,  which  is  formed  by  adding  a,  with  a 
syncope. 

4.  In  the  plural,  the  genitive  is  the  same  as  the 
nominative  singular  ;  and  the  other  cases  are  the 
same  as  the  genitive  singular.  Example,  maipe- 
aiiiail,  graceful. 


34  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART    II. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Norn,  maipeaiiiail.  Nom.  maipeamla. 

Gen.  maipeamla.  Gen.  maipeamail. 

Dat.  maipeamail.  Dat.    maipeamla. 

FOURTH     DECLENSION. 

1.  Adjectives  of  the  fourth  declension  are  those 
that  end  in  vowels;  as  mópóa,  majestic. 

2.  They  have  no  inflections,  being  alike  in  all 
cases,  numbers,  and  genders. 


II.   DECLENSION   OF   THE   ADJECTIVE   AND   ARTICLE 
WITH   THE   NOUN. 

1.  The  rules  for  the  aspiration  of  the  initial 
consonants  of  adjectives  agreeing  with  nouns  are 
given  at  p.  10  ;  and  these  rules  must  be  very  care- 
fully observed  in  declining  nouns  with  adjectives. 

2.  It  maybe  added  here  that  b  and  c  sometimes 
resist  aspiration,  especially  if  they  follow  a  noun 
ending  in  n.  There  is  much  variety  of  usage  as 
to  aspiration  of  adjectives  in  the  dative  singular. 

3.  When  a  noun  is  declined  with  both  an 
adjective  and  the  article,  the  initial  of  the  adjec- 
tive is  generally  eclipsed  in  the  genitive  plural 
(or  takes  n  if  it  be  a  vowel). 

4.  Four  typical  examples  are  here  given  of  the  declension 
of  the  adjective  with  the  noun.  For  the  influence  of  the 
article  see  p.  17. 

On  capall  ban,  the  white  horse,  masc. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Nom.  an  capall  bdn.  na  capaill  bdna. 

Gen.    an  capaill  Dám.  na  5-capall  m-bdn. 

Dat.    6'n  5-capall  bdn  or  6'na  capallaib  bdna 

m-bdn. 

Voc.   a  capaill  bdin.  a  capalla  bdna. 


CHAP.  III.]  THE   ADJECTIVE.  35 

Gn  puipeó^  beag,  the  little  lark,  fern. 

Nom.  an  puipeóg  beag.  na  puipeóga  beaga. 

Gen.  na  puipeoise  bise.  na  b-puipeó5  ni-beas» 

Dat.    ó'n  b-puipeoi5bi5.  ó'na  puipeósaib  bectga. 

Voc.  a  puipeóó  beas-  a  puipeóga  beasa. 


Gn  cnoc  dpb,  the  high  hill,  mane, 

Noui.  an  cnoc  dpb.  Noui.  na  cnuic  dpba. 

Gen.    an  cnuíc  dipb.  Gen.   na  5-cnoc  n-dpb. 

Dat.    o'n  5-cnoc  dpb.  Dat.     ó'na  cnocaib  ápoa. 

Voc.    a  cnuic  dipt».  Voc.    a  cnoca  dpba. 


Qn  bó  óub,  the  Hack  cow,  fern, 

Nom.  an  bó  bub.  Nom.  na  bd  buba. 

Gen.  na  bo  buibe.  .    Gen.  na  m-bó  n-bub. 
Dat.   bo'n  m-bum  buib.  Dat.  bo  na  bikub  bubo. 

Voc.   a  bó  bub.  Voc.  a  ba  buba. 


III.    COMPARISON   OF   ADJECTIVES. 

1.  Irish,  adjectives  have  three  degrees  of  com- 
parison, the  same  as  English  adjectives. 

2.  The  positive  is  the  simple  form  of  the  ad- 
jective; as  dpo,  high;  plaioeaTho.il,  princely. 

3.  The  comparative  and  the  superlative  have 
the  same  form,  which  is  that  of  the  genitive  singu- 
lar feminine ;  as  tíipoe,  plaicearhla ;  and  they  are 
distinguished  by  prefixed  particles,  or  by  the  con- 
text. 

4.  The  comparative  has  generally  the  particle 
niop  (or  niopa  or  nfpa)  prefixed,  and  it  is  usually 
followed  by  Tid,  than  (spelled  also  ind  and  lond) ; 
as  cd   an  ceac  po  niop  dipoe  nd  an  ceac  pin, 


36  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 

this  house  is  higher  than  that  house  :  acd  an 
laoc  tj'o  niop  plaiceamla  nd  an  pígpéin,  "yonder 
champion  is  more  princely  than  the  king  him- 
self." 

5.  The  superlative  is  often  preceded  by  lp  or 
ap,  with  the  article  expressed  before  the  noun ;  as 
an  pean  íp  plaiceamla  pan  cíp,  the  most  princely 
man  in  the  country. 

6.  In  the  comparative,  niop  is  omitted  when  tho 
assertion  or  question  is  made  by  the  verb  íp  in  any  of 
its  forms,  expressed  or  understood ;  as  ba  óuibe  a 
5puag  nd  an  5"ual,  "her  hair  was  blacker  than  the 
coal;"  íp  gile  pneacca  nd  bamne,  snow  is  whiter 
than  milk  ;  an  pedpp  do  óeapbnaóaip  nd  cfipa  ? 
is  thy  brother  better  than  thou  ? 

7.  When  the  characteristic  particles  are  not  ex- 
pressed, the  construction  generally  determines 
whether  the  adjective  is  comparative  or  super- 
lative; as  an  ealaóan  íp  uaiple  nd  pilióeacc,  the 
art  which  is  nobler  than  poetry;  an  ealaóan  ip 
tiaiple  aip  bic,  "the  art  which  is  the  noblest  in 
the  world." 

8.  An  adjective  in  the  comparative  or  superla- 
tive is  not  inflected ;  all  the  cases  being  alike  in 
form. 


IRREGULAR     COMPARISON. 

1.  The  following  adjectives  are  irregularly 
compared.  There  are  a  few  others,  but  their  de- 
parture from  rule  is  so  slight  as  not  to  require 
notice. 

2.  Li  a  is  a  comparative  as  it  stands,  signifying 
more  (in  number) ;  but  it  has  no  positive,  unless 
íomoa  or  mópdn  (many),  or  some  such  word,  be 
considered  as  such. 


[TAP.  III.] 

THE   ADJECTIVE. 

37 

Positive, 
beas,  little, 
paba,  long, 
pupup  or  upup, 
easy. 

rié'  1  good. 

Comparative. 

niop  luja. 
níop  paibe,nioppia. 
niop  pupa,  niop 
n  pa. 

niop  pedpp. 

Superlatiye. 
ip  luga. 
ippaibe,  ip  pia. 
ip  pupa,  ípupa. 

ip  pedpp. 

numc,  often, 
móp,  great, 
olc,  bad. 
ceic,  hot. 

niop  mionca. 
niop  mo. 
niop  meapa. 
niop  ceo. 

ip  mó. 
ip  meapa. 
ip  ceó. 

3.  There  are  certain  particles  which,  when 
prefixed  to  adjectives,  intensify  their  significa- 
tion ;  and  in  accordance  with  the  rule  in  Par.  4, 
page  10,  they  aspirate  the  initials  of  the  adjectives. 

4.  The  principal  of  these  are  an,  píop,  pó, 
pap,  up:  as  maic,  good;  an-riiaic,  very  good: 
5pdnna,  ugly;  píop-gpánna,  excessively  ugly: 
mop,  large;  pó-riióp,  very  large:  láibip,  strong; 
pdp-ldit»ip?  very  strong,  &c. 


IV.    NUMERAL   ADJECTIVES. 

1 .  The  following  is  a  list  of  the  most  important 
of  the  numerals,  both  cardinal  and  ordinal. 

For  the  influence  of  some  of  them  in  aspirating  and 
eclipsing,  and  for- other  syntactical  influences  on  the  noun, 
see  Syntax. 


Cardinal. 

Ordinal. 

1. 

aon. 

1st. 

céab. 

2. 

bo,  bd. 

2nd. 

bapa. 

3. 

cpí,  ceópa. 

3rd. 

cpeap. 

4. 

ceacaip,  ceicpe. 

4th. 

ceacpamab. 

5. 

CÚ15-. 

5th. 

cuiseab. 

G. 

pé. 

6th. 

peipeab. 

7. 

peace. 

7th. 

peaccmab. 

8. 

occ. 

Sth. 

occmab. 

9. 

naoi. 

9th. 

naomab. 

10. 

beic. 

10th. 

beacmab. 

11. 

aon  béag. 

11th. 

aonmab  béa^. 
4 

ETYMOLOGY. 


20. 
21. 


12.  oó  t)éa<5,  otí  béag. 

13.  cpí  béas. 
And  so  on,  up   to 

and  including  19. 

pice. 

aon  a'p  pice,  aon 
[     aip  picib, 
And  so  on,  up  to  29. 

oq  jcpiocab,  cpioca, 
')     beic  a'p  pice. 

Ícpí  aip  cpiocaib, 
cpi    oéas    a'p 
pice. 
Ibá    picib,    ceac- 
paca,  ceacpa- 
cab. 
50.    cao^a,  caogab. 
60-  J  rear5"ab.  peapga, 
(     cpi  picib. 

Ipeaccmoga.peacc- 
mogab,  beic  a'p 
cpi  picib. 
Íoccmosa,      occ- 
mogab,    ceicpe 
picib. 
Ínoca,  nocab,  beió 
a'p  ceicpe 
picib 
100.    céab. 
1,000.    mile. 
2,000.    bá  mile. 
1,000,000.    million.  1 


[part  II 

12th.    bapa  béag. 
13th.    cpeap  béas- 


20th.    piceab. 

21st  Í  a0Tima&  Q}V 
'  [      picib. 

Icpiocabab, 
beacmab  aip 
picib. 
I  cpeap  aip  cpio- 
33rd.  <  caib,    cpeap 
(  béasaippicib. 

40th.    ceacpacabab. 

50th.    cao^abab. 

60th  )  reapsabab,  cp/ 

'  I     picibeab. 

(peaccrhosabab, 

70th.  j    beacmab  aip 

(     cpi  picib. 

!occmo$abab, 
ceicpe  picib- 
eab. 
(nocabab,  beac- 
90th.*    mabaipceic- 
(    pe  picib. 
100th.    céabab. 
1,000th.    mileab. 
2,000th.    bá  mileab. 
,000,000th.    milliúnaó. 


2.  Oó  and  ceacaip  are  used  only  in  the  ab- 
sence of  nonns,  i.e.  merely  as  the  names  of  the 
numbers;  but  fid  and  ceiépe  are  always  used  when 
the  nouns  are  expressed;  as  Da  cluaip,  two  ears; 
ceicpe  pip,  four  men. 

3.  pice  is  declined  : — Nom  pice;  gen.  piceao  ; 
dat.  picib  ;  nom.  plur.  picib. 

4.  Céab  has  gen.  céib ;  nom.  pi.  céaba  or céabca. 

5.  The  following  nouns,  which   are   all   excepjt 


CHAP.  IV.]  THE   PRONOUN.  39 

beipc,  formed  from  the  numerals,  are  applied  to 
persons  only  : — 

bíap.bíp,  two  persons.  peaccap,         \  persons 

beipc,      a  couple.  móp-peipeap,  }  8even  Persons- 

cpiúp,      three  persons.  occap,  eight    ,, 

ceacpap,  four        „  ncmbap,  naonbap,   nine    „ 

cúiseap,  five        ,,  oeicneabap,  ten      „ 

peipeap,  six         „ 


CHAPTEE  IV. 


THE  PRONOUN. 


1.  There  are  in  Irish  six  kinds  of  pronouns : — 
Personal,  Possessive,  Relative,  Demonstrative,  In- 
terrogative, and  Indefinite. 


I.    PERSONAL   PRONOUNS. 

1.  There  are  four  personal  pronouns — mé,  I; 
cú,  thou  ;  pé,  he  ;  pi,  she  ;  with  their  plurals, 
pirm,  we  ;  pib,  ye  or  you  ;  and  piab,  they.  These 
are  the  simple  forms  of  the  personal  pronouns. 

2.  Each  of  these  takes  an  emphatic  increase  or 
postfixed  syllable,  equivalent  to  the  English  word 
self  ;  and  the  whole  word  thus  formed  is  called  the 
emphatic  form.  The  emphatic  syllables  vary  their 
vowel  part  in  accordance  with  the  rule  caol  le 
caol  &c. 

3.  The  following  are  the  emphatic  forms: — 
lllipe  or  mepi,  myself;    eúpa,   thyself;   pépecm 


40  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 

himself ;  pipe,  herself ;  pmne,  ourselves ;  pibpe, 
yourselves ;  piabpam  themselves. 

4.  The  word  pém,  self,  is  of  ten  added  to  the  per- 
sonal pronouns,  not  as  a  particle  but  as  a  separate 
word ;  and  it  is  still  more  emphatic  than  the  par- 
ticles mentioned  in  last  paragraph:— mé  péin,  I 
myself ;  pi  péin,  she  herself. 

5.  The  personal  pronouns  are  all  declined  ;  and 
they  may  carry  the  emphatic  increase  through  all 
the  cases. 

6.  The  personal  pronouns  (except  mé),  unlike 
nouns,  have  a  distinct  form  for  the  accusative  (or 
objective)  case.  It  is,  of  course,  only  the  pronoun 
cti  that  is  used  in  the  vocative. 

DECLENSION  OF  PERSONAL  PRONOUNS. 

The  declension  of  the  emphatic  form  of  mé  is  given  as  an 
example :  observe,  in  this,  the  vowel  changes  in  obedience  to 
caol  le  caol  &c. 

mé,  /. 

Singular.  Plural. 

Nom.  mé,  I.  Nom.  pinn,  we. 

Gen.   mo,  mine.  Gen.   án,  our. 

Dat.    bom,  bam,  to  me.  Dat.    búmn,  to  us. 

Ace.    mé,  me.  Aoc.    inn  or  pirm,  us. 

TDipe,  myself  {emphatic  form). 

Nom.  mir e,  mepi,  myself.  Nom.  pmne,  ourselves. 

Gen.  mo-pa,  my  own.  Gen.  típ-ne,  our  own. 

Dat.   bompa,  bampa,  to  my-  Dat.  búinne,  to  ourselves. 

self. 

Ace.   mipe,  mepi,  myself.  Ace.  inne,  pmne,  ourselves. 

<Cl5,  thou. 

Nom.  ct5.  Nom.  pib. 

Gen.   t>o.  Gen.   bup,  bap. 

Dat.    buic.  Dat.    baoib,  t>Vb. 

Ace.    cú.  Ace.    lb,  pib. 

Voc.    cti.  Voc    pib,  lb. 


CHAP.  IV.]        THE  PRONOUN.  41 


Nom.  r é. 
Gen.  a. 
Dat.  bo. 
Ace.  é. 


THE   PRONOUN 

Sé 

,  he. 

Nom. 
Gen. 
Dat. 

Ace. 

pi  ab. 

a. 

bóib. 

lab. 

Si, 

she. 

Nom, 
Gen. 
Dat. 
Ace. 

,  riab. 
a. 

bóib. 
mb. 

Nom.  pi. 
Gen.  a. 
Dat.  bi. 
Ace.  f. 


PERSONAL  PRONOUNS  COMPOUNDED  WITH 
PREPO  SIT  I  ON  S  . 

1.  In  Irish,  the  personal  and  the  possessive  pro- 
nouns unite  with  prepositions,  each  compound 
forming  a  single  word. 

2.  In  each  case  the  preposition  and  the  pronoun 
are  amalgamated,  and  the  latter  changes  its  form, 
so  as  to  be  considerably,  and  in  some  cases  com- 
pletely, disguised. 

3.  These  "  prepositional  pronouns,"  as  they  are 
sometimes  called,  are  of  constant  occurrence  in 
the  language — scarce  a  sentence  in  which  they  are 
not  met  with :  they  are  therefore  of  great  im- 
portance, and  the  learner  should  get  them  all  off 
by  heart. 

4.  The  following  prepositions  unite  with  per- 
sonal pronouns: — 05;  aip  or  ap  ;  cmn  or  1  ;  ap ; 
cum  ;  oe  ;  00 ;  eiOip  or  it>ip  ;  pa  or  paoi ;  le  ;  o  or 
ua  ;  poiTh  ;  peac  ;  cap  ;  cpé  ;  uap ;  um  or  im. 

5.  The  following  are  the  combinations  of  these 
prepositions  with  the  personal  pronouns. 

6.  The  emphatic  particles  may  be  used  with 
these  combinations  also,  as  well  as  with  the  un- 
compounded  pronouns,  of  which  one  example  is 
given. 

4 


42 


ETYMOLOGY. 


[PABT   II. 


a5,< 

Singular, 
a^cmi,  with  or  at  me. 
asac,  a^cit),  with  thee, 
aige,  with  hirn. 
aice  or  aici,  with  her. 


)  or  with. 

Plural, 
asainn,  with  us. 
agaib,  with  you. 
aca  or  acu,  with  them. 


The  same  with  the  emphatic  increase. 


asampa,  with  myself. 
a^acpa,  with  thyself. 
aisepean,  with  himself. 
aicipe,  with  herself. 


againne,  with  ourselves, 
asaibpe,  with  yourselves. 
acapan,  with  themselves. 


Gip  or  ap,  upon. 


opm,  on  me. 
one,  on  thee, 
aip,  on  him. 
uippe,  on  her. 


oppainn,  on  us. 
oppaib,  on  you. 
oppa,  opca,  on  them. 


Gnn  or  1,  in. 


lormam,  in  me. 
lonnac,  íonnaO,  in  thee, 
ann,  in  him. 
inncc,  innci,  in  her. 


lonnainn,  íonainn,  in  us. 
lonnaib,  in  you. 
íonnca,  in  them, 


Qp,  out  of. 


npam,  out  of  me. 
apac,  apab,  out  of  thee, 
ap,  out  of  him. 
aipce,  aipci,  out  of  her. 


apainn,  out  of  us. 
apaib,  out  of  you. 
apca,  apcu,  out  of  them. 


Cum,  toivards,  unto. 


cuftam,  unto  me. 
cugac,  unto  thee, 
cuige,  unto  him. 
cuici,  unto  her. 


Oiom,  off  or  of  me. 
trtoc,  off  thee. 
be,  off  him. 
01,  off  her. 


cuftcunn,  unto  us. 
cu  50.1b,  unto  you. 
cuca,  unto  them. 

,  from  or  off. 

binn,  off  us. 
bib,  off  you. 
blob,  off  them. 


CHAP.    IV.]  THE   PRONOUN.  43 

"Do,  to. 

bam,  bom,  bam,  to  me.  btfmn,  to  us. 

buic,  to  thee.  baoib,  X)Vb,  to  you. 

bo,  to  him.  bóib,  to  them, 
bi,  to  her. 

Gibip,  between. 

eabpam,  between  me.  eabpairm,  between  us. 

eabpac,  between  thee.  eabpaib,  between  you. 

eibip  é,  between  him.  eacoppa,  between  them, 
eibip  i,  between  her. 

pá  or  paoi,  under. 

■ptfm,  under  me.  púirm,  under  us. 

pic,  under  thee,  púib,  under  you. 

paoi,  under  him.  puca,  under  them. 
ptJice,  under  her. 

Le,  with. 

liom,  with  me.  linn,  with  us. 

leac,  with  thee.  lib,  with  you. 

leip,  with  him.  leó,  with  them. 
léice,  léi,  with  her. 

Le  is  often  written  pe  in  books,  and  its  pronominal  com- 
binations in  this  form  are  often  met  with.  They  are  as  fol- 
lows : — 

piom,  with  me.  pmn,  with  us. 

pioc,  with  thee.  pib,  with  you. 

pip,  with  him.  piu,  with  them, 
pia,  with  her. 

O  or  wo,  from. 

uaim,  from  me.  uamn,  from  us. 

uaic,  from  thee.  uaib,  from  you. 

uab,  from  him.  uata,  from  them, 
uaice,  uaici,  from  her. 

Roini,  before. 

póiiiam,  before  me.  póitiamn,  before  us 

póiiiac,  before  thee.  pórhaib,  before  you. 

póirhe,  befoi*e  him.  pómpa,  before  them. 

póimpe,  póimpi,  before  her. 


44  ETYMOLOGY.  [PAET   II. 

Seac,  beside. 

peacam,  beside  me.  p eacamn,  beside  us. 

peacac,  beside  tbee.  peacaib,  beside  you. 

peac  é,  beside  him.  peaca,  beside  them, 
peac  i,  beside  her. 

Cap,  beyond,  over. 

copm,  capm,  over  me.  coppamn,óappainn,overus. 

cope,  cape,  over  thee.  coppaib,  cappaib,  over  you. 

caipip,  over  him.  cappca,  cappa,  over  them, 
caippce,  caippi,  over  her. 

Cpe,  through. 

cpiom,  through  me.  cpinn,  through  us. 

cpioc,  through  thee.  cpib,  through  you. 

cpib,  through  him.  cpioca,  through  them, 
cpíce,  cpici,  through  her. 

Uap,  above. 

uapam,  above  me.  uapmnn,  above  us. 

uapac,  above  thee.  uapmb,  above  you. 

uapa,  above  him.  uapca,  above  them, 
uaipce,  uaipci,  above  her. 

Um  or  itti,  about. 

umam,  about  me.  umamn,  about  us. 

urnac,  about  thee.  unimb,  about  you. 

urnie,  about  him.  umpa,  about  them, 
uimpe,  uimpi,  about  her. 

II.    POSSESSIVE  PRONOUNS. 

1.  The  possessive  pronouns,  which  are  merely 
the  genitives  of  the  personal  pronouns,  are  as 
follows: — mo,  my;  bo,  thy;  a,  his  or  her;  dp, 
our;  bap  or  bup,  your;  a,  their.  The  three  pos- 
sessives,  a,  his,  a,  her,  and  a,  their,  are  distin- 
guished by  the  initial  letter  changes  of  the  next 
word.      (See  pp.  9,  11,  12  ;  and  see  also  Syntax.) 


CHAP.    IV.]  THE   PRONOUN.  45 

2.  The  o  of  mo  and  oo  is  omitted  before  a 
vowel  or  before  p;  as  m'acaip,  my  father; 
m'peapann,  my  land.  And  oo  is  often  changed, 
before  a  vowel,  to  c,  6,  and  h ;  as  c'acaip, 
c'acaip,  or  h-acaip,  thy  father. 

3.  The  possessive  pronouns  also  take  the  em- 
phatic increase,  with  this  peculiarity,  however, 
that  the  emphatic  particle  always  follows  the  noun 
that  comes  after  the  possessive,  or  if  the  noun  be 
qualified  by  one  or  more  adj  ectives,  the  emphatic 
particle  comes  last  of  all ;  and  in  accordance  with 
the  rule  caol  le  caol,  its  vowel  is  generally  broad 
or  slender  according  as  the  last  vowel  of  the  word 
it  follows  is  broad  or  slender  ;  as  mo  ceac-pa,  my 
house,  or  my  own  house  ;  mo  ceac  móp  buioe-pi, 
my  great  j^ellow  house.  And  these  again  may  be 
followed  by  péin  (Par.  4,  p.  40),  rendering  the 
expression  still  more  emphatic ;  as  mo  ceac-pa 
péin,  my  own  house. 

POSSESSIVE     PRONOUNS     COMPOUNDED      WITH 
PREPOSITI  ONS. 

1.  The  possessive  pronouns  are  amalgamated 
with  prepositions,  much  in  the  same  way  as  the 
personal  pronouns  ;  as  beip  beannacc  óm  cpoióe, 
bear  a  blessing  from  mij  heart. 

2.  The  following  are  the  most  important  of 
these  combinations  :  — 

Gnn,  in. 

Singular.  Plural, 

am,  am',  in  my.  map,  'ntíp,  in  our. 
at),  ab',  in  thy.  — 

iona,  ma,  'na,  in  his  or  her.  iona,  ma,  ma,  in  their. 

t)o,  to. 

t>om,  bom',  to  my.  báp,  b'típ,  to  our. 
bob,  bob',  to  thy.  — 

b<5,  ba,  to  his  or  her.  bd,  b'a,  to  their. 


7& 


46  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 

Le,  icith. 

lem,  lem',  with  my.  len,  le'n,  with  our 

let),  leb',  with  thy.  — 

lena,  le  n-a,  with  his  or  her.    lena,  le  n-a,  with  their. 


O  or  Ma  from. 

óm,  óm',  from  my.  oáp,  6'n,  from  our. 

6t>,  6t)',  from  thy.  — 

óna,  ó  n-a,  from  his  or  her.        óna,  o  n-a,  from  their. 

3.  Those  that  are  identical  in  form  and 
different  in  meaning  are  distinguished  by  the 
initial  letter  changes  they  produce  in  the  next 
word;  as  óna  ci§,  from  his  house  ;  6na  G15,  from 
her  house;  óna  t>-ci$,  from  their  house. 

4.  These  combinations  can  also  take  the  em- 
phatic increase,  like  those  of  the  personal  pro- 
nouns, with  the  peculiarity,  however,  noticed  in 
Par.  3,  p.  45 ;  as  óm  éi$  móp  dpb-pa,  from  my 
great  high  house. 


III.    RELATIVE    PRONOUNS. 

1.  There  are  three  relative  pronouns  in  Irish : — 
a,  who,  which,  that;  noc,  who,  which,  that; 
nac,  which  not;  as  an  cé  a  buaileap,  the  person 
who  strikes  ;  an  liaig  noc  a  oeip  50  b-puil  cu" 
plan,  the  physician  that  says  that  you  are  well; 
an  cé  nac  b-puil  Itíioip,  ní  puldip  t>ó  beió  5I1C, 
"the  person  who  is  not  strong,  it  is  necessary  for 
him  to  be  wise." 

2.  t)d  sometimes  takes  the  place  of  the  relative 
a  ;  and  in  some  grammars  it  is  counted  as  a  dis- 
tinct relative  pronoun  ;  as  edit»  na  ^aolca  íp 
ped|ip  asumodb-iHiilao-calaiii  6peann,  "  I  have 


CHAP.  IV.]  THE  PRONOUN.  47 

the  best  friends  that  are  (to  be  found)  in  the  land 
of  Erin."  And  sometimes  bo  stands  for  the  rela- 
tive a. 

3.  The  relative  a  has  sometimes  the  sense  of 
"  all  which"  or  "  all  that ;"  asbeip  beannacccum  a 
maipeannbepiolpaic  IpVp  Gibip,  "bear  a  blessing 
to  all  that  live  of  the  seed  of  Ir  and  Eber;"  a 
b-puil  ran  calarh  b'aicme  TTlháine,  "all  that  are 
in  the  land  of  the  tribe  of  Maine." 

4.  The  relative  pronouns  are  not  declined. 

IV.  DEMONSTRATIVE  PRONOUNS. 

1.  The  demonstrative  pronouns  are  po,  this, 
these;  pin,  that,  those;  pub  or  úb,  yonder:  as 
an  peap  po,  this  man  ;  na  mnd  pm,  those  women; 
pub  Í  pi  op,    "  yonder  she  (moves)  below." 

V.  INTERROGATIVE    PRONOUNS. 

1.  There  are  usually  reckoned  three  interroga- 
tive pronouns: — cia  or  cé,  who?  cd,  what? 
where?  cab  or  cpeub,  what?  as  cia  cpuéuig  cu  ? 
who  created  thee  ?  cab  beip  cú  ?  what  sayest 
thou?  ca  b-puil  an  peap  pm  ?  where  is  that 
man?  cpeub  íp  ei^in?  what  is  necessary? 

VI.     INDEFINITE  PRONOUNS. 

1.  The  following  are  the  principal  indefinite 
pronouns  : — 

aon,  one.  ceaccap,  either. 

éio"in,  some,  certain.  uile,  all. 

eile,  oile,  other.  a  céile,  each  other. 

các,all.  an  cé,  an  ci,  the  person  who. 

506,  each,  every.  cia  b'é,  cibó,  5ibé,  whoever. 

gac  uile,  every. 


48  ETYMOLOGY.  [PAET  II. 

2.  The  indefinite  pronouns  are  not  declined  ; 
except  cdc,  which  has  a  genitive  form,  cdic  ;  and 
50.Ó,  which  is  sometimes  made  50:00:  in  the  geni- 
tive. 


CHAPTEE   V. 

THE  VEEB. 

1.  Irish  verbs  are  inflected  for  number,  person, 
mood,  tense,  and  voice. 

2.  The  conjugation  is  arranged,  not  according 
to  the  initial  changes,  but  according  to  termina- 
tions. 

3.  As  to  the  initial  changes : — see  pages  10  and  58  for 
the  particles  that  aspirate,  and  page  12  for  the  particles  that 
eclipse,  the  initials  of  verbs. 

I.    PERSON'S  :    SYNTHETIC   AND   ANALYTIC   FORMS. 

1.  The  verb  has  three  persons  singular  and 
three  persons  plural ;  and  it  has  inflections  for  the 
whole  six  in  the  indicative  and  conditional  moods 
of  the  active  voice,  except  in  one  tense  of  the  in- 
dicative. 

2.  The  six  forms  of  the  present  tense,  indicative 
mood,  active  voice,  of  the  verb  C65,  take,  are  as 
follows : — 

Singular.  Plural. 

1.  cósann,  I  take.  1.  cósamaoib,  we  take. 

2.  cósaip,  thou  takest.        2.  cóftéaoi,  ye  take. 

3.  C65C11O  pé,  he  takes.        3.  cogent»,  they  take. 


CHAP.  V.]  THE   VERB.  49 

3.  This  is  what  is  called  the  synthetic  form  of 
the  verb.  The  synthetic  form  is  that  in  which  the 
persons  are  expressed  by  inflections  or  termina- 
tions. 

4.  These  six  forms  express  the  sense  perfectly, 
without  the  accompaniment  of  the  pronouns  (ex- 
cept in  the  case  of  the  third  person  singular) : 
that  is,  có^aip,  as  it  stands,  without  using  along 
with  it  the  pronoun  ctj,  thou,  expresses  perfectly 
"thoutakest  ;"  and  so  of  the  others. 

5.  But  there  is  another  way  of  expressing  the 
persons,  singular  and  plural,  namely,  by  using 
one  form  of  the  verb  for  the  whole  six,  and  put- 
ting in  the  pronouns  to  distinguish  the  persons 
and  numbers.  This  is  what  is  called  the  analytic 
form  of  the  verb. 

6.  In  this  analytic  mode  of  expressing  the  per- 
sons and  numbers,  the  form  of  the  verb  that  is 
used  is  the  same  as  the  form  for  the  third  person 
singular  ;  and  the  persons  singular  and  plural  are 
expressed  as  follows  : — 

Singular.  Plural. 

1.  có5di&mé,  I  take.  1.  C65C11&  firm   we  take. 

2.  CÓ5CH&  cfj,  thou  takest.  2.  cógaiÓ  pib,  ye  take. 

3.  C65C110  ré,  he  takes.  3.  CÓ5CUD  fiat»,  they  take. 

7.  The  third  singular  of  the  verb  is  not  a  syn- 
thetic form  like  the  other  five,  that  is,  it  does  not 
include  the  pronoun  as  they  do.  In  the  third 
person  singular,  therefore,  the  pronoun  must  be 
always  expressed  in  order  to  distinguish  the 
number  and  person ;  unless  there  is  a  noun,  or 
that  the  nominative  is  in  some  other  way  obvious 
from  the  construction. 

8.  But  generally  speaking  it  is  not  allowable  to 
express  any  other  pronoun  along  with  the  cor- 
responding  synthetic    form    of    the  verb: — For 


50  ETYMOLOGY.  [P-ABT   II. 

example,  it  would  be  wrong  to  say  bécmaim  mé  or 
fréanamaoiO  pirm,  both  expressions  being  tauto- 
logical. 

9.  This  rule,  in  the  case  of  the  third  person 
plural,  however,  is  sometimes  not  observed  ;  for 
such  expressions  as  molait)  piat>  and  inolpait» 
piab—  they  praise,  they  will  praise — are  often  met 
with,  though  molaiO  or  molpaib  alone  would 
answer.  And  a  like  construction  (in  the  third 
plural)  is  often  used  when  the  nominative  is  a 
plural  noun,  both  in  the  present  and  in  the  past 
tense;  as  cpiallaio  mic  TYlileao,  "the  sons  of  Mile 
go  ;"  map  t>o  concaoap  na  bpaoice,  "  when  the 
druids  saw." 

10.  The  emphatic  particles  may  be  postfixed  to 
all  the  persons  of  verbs,  in  the  same  manner  as 
to  pronouns  and  nouns  (p.  39)  ;  as  molaim-pe, 
I  praise;  molaip-pe,  thou  praisest.  And  in  all 
such  cases,  the  word  pém  (p.  40)  may  be  used 
to  make  the  expression  still  more  emphatic;  as 
oo  cuippinn-pe  pém  mo  lecmb  a  coolaó,  "  I  my- 
self would  put  my  child  to  sleep." 

11.  The  general  tendency  of  modern  languages  is  to  drop 
synthetic  forms,  and  to  become  more  analytic.  The  English 
language,  for  example,  has  lost  nearly  all  its  inflections,  and 
supplied  their  place  by  prepositions,  conjunctions,  adverbs, 
and  auxiliary  verbs.  Following  this  tendency,  the  synthetic 
forms  of  the  Irish  verb  are  falling  into  disuse  in  the  spoken 
language  ;  and  it  has  been  already  remarked  (p.  23)  that  the 
noun-inflection  lb  is  now  seldom  used  in  speaking.  But  all 
these  forms  are  quite  common  in  even  the  most  modern  Irish 
books;  and  the  learner  must,  therefore,  make  himself  quite 
familiar  with  them. 


II.    TENSES. 

1.  In   English   a   regular    verb   has  only   two 
different  forms  to  express  tense : — I  love,  I  loved ; 


CHAP.  V.]  THE  VEEB.  51 

all  the  other  tenses   are   expressed  by  means  of 
auxiliaries. 

2.  In  Irish,  a  regular  verb  has  five  different 
forms  in  the  indicative  mood  for  tense.  Reckon- 
ing those  tenses  only  which  are  expressed  by  in- 
flection, an  Irish  regular  verb  has  therefore  five 
tenses  in  the  indicative  mood. 

3.  The  five  tenses  with  the  synthetic  forms  for 
the  first  person  singular  of  the  regular  verb  501  p, 
call,  are : — 

(1.)  The  present;  goipim,  I  call. 

(2.)  The  consuetudinal  or  habitual  present ; 
goipeann  mé,  I  am  in  the  habit  of  calling. 

(3.)  The  past,  or  simple  past,  or  perfect  (for  it 
is  known  by  all  these  three  names) ;  00  goipeap, 
I  called. 

(4.)  The  consuetudinal  or  habitual  past;  bo 
goipinn,  I  used  to  call,  or  I  used  to  be  calling. 

(5.)  The  future;  goippeao,  I  shall  or  will 
call. 


III.    MOODS  AND   VOICES. 

1.  The  Irish  regular  verb  has  four  moods : — 
The  Imperative,  the  Indicative,  the  Conditional, 
and  the  Infinitive.  These  are  the  only  moods  for 
which  the  regular  verb  has  distinct  inflections. 

2.  There  are,  indeed,  other  moods,  which  are  expressed,  not 
by  inflection,  but  by  means  of  certain  conjunctions  and  par- 
ticles set  before  the  verb  ;  and  these  additional  moods  are 
given  in  conjugation  in  some  Irish  grammars  ;  but  as  their 
forms  do  not  differ  from  the  forms  of  the  four  given  in  the 
last  paragraph,  they  are  not  included  here. 

3.  It  is  only  the  indicative  mood  of  the  verb 
that  has  tense  inflection ;  in  each  of  the  other 
moods  there  is  only  one  tense. 


52  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART   II. 

4.  There  are  two  voices,  the  active  and  the  passive. 
It  is  only  in  the  active  voice  that  there  are  per- 
sonal inflections ;  in  the  passive  voice,  the  three 
persons  singular  and  the  three  persons  plural  have 
all  six  the  same  form,  rendering  it  necessary,  of 
course,  that  the  pronoun  be  always  expressed  when 
there  is  no  noun. 


IV.    CONJUGATION  OF  A  REGULAR  VERB. 

bucul,  strike. 
acttve    VOICE. 
Imperative  Mood. 
Singular.  Plural. 

1 1.  buailimip,  let  ub  strike. 

2.  buail,  strike  thou.  2.  buailiO,  strike  ye. 

3.  buaileaó   ré,    let   him     3.  buailibip,  let  thern  strike. 

strike. 

Indicative  Mood. 
Present  Tense. 

Singular.  Plural. 

1.  buciilim,  I  strike.  1.  bucnlimib,  we  strike. 

2.  bnailip,  thou  strikest.  2.  buailci,  ye  strike. 

3.  buailiO  ré,  he  strikes.  3.  buculib,  they  strike. 

{For  the  relative  form  of  this  tense,  see  p.  55.) 

Consuetudinal  or  habitual  Present. 

buailearm  mé,  I  usually  strike. 

{The  same  form  for  all  'persons  and  numbers.) 


CHAP.  V.J  THE   VERB.  53 


Past. 

1.  bumleap,  I  struck.  1.  buaileamap,  we  struck. 

2.  buailip,  thou  struckest.       2.  bumleabap,  ye  struck. 

3.  buailpé,  he  struck.  3.  buaiteabap,  they  struck. 

Old  form  of  Pad. 

1.  buaileap.  1.  buailpeam  orbuailpiom 

2.  bunilip.  2.  bumleabap. 

3.  buaileapcap.  3.  buailpeab,  or  buailpiob, 

or  buailpeabap. 

Consuetudinal  Past 

1.  buailmn,   I    used    to        1.  buailimip,  we  used  to  strike. 

strike. 

2.  buailóeá,  thou  usedst        2.  buailci,  ye  used  to  strike. 

to  strike. 

3.  buaileaó  pé,  he  used  to      3.  buailibip,     they    used  to 

strike.  strike. 


Picture. 

1.  buailpeab,  I  will  strike.     1.  buailpimib,  we  will  strike. 

2.  buailpip,  thou  wilt  strike.   2.  buailpib,  ye  will  strike. 

3.  buailpiópé,  he  will  strike.   3.  buailpib,  they  will  strike. 

{For  the  relative  form  of  this  tense,  see  p.  55.) 


Conditional  Mood. 

1.  buailpirm,       I      would  1.  buculpimip,    we    would 

strike.  strike. 

2.  buailpeá,  thou  wouldst  2.  bnailpib,  ye  would  strike. 

strike. 

3.  buailpeab  pé,  he  would  3.  buailpibip,   they    would 

strike.  strike. 


Inf.  Mood.  Do  bualab,  to  strike.   Part.  CI5  bualab,  striking. 


54  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 

PASSIVE    VOICE. 

Imperative  Mood. 

{The  same  as  the  Indicative  Present.) 

Indicative  Mood. 

Present  Tense. 

Singular.  Plural. 

1.  bwailceap    mé,     I    am     1.  buailcean  pmn  or  mn,  we 

struck.  are  struck. 

2.  buailcean  cd,  thou  art    2.  buailcean  rib  or  ib,  ye  are 

struck.  struck. 

3.  buailcean  é,  he  is  struck.    3.  buailceap   íaO,   they    are 

struck. 

Consuetudinal  Present. 

(Same  as  the  Indicative  Present.) 

Past. 

1.  buaileao    mé,    I     was     1.  buaileaO  rmn  or  inn,  we 

struck.  were  struck. 

2.  buaileao  cú,  thou  wast    2.  buaileao    riu  or    ib,    ye 

struck.  were  struck. 

3.  buaileaó    é,      he    was    3.  buaileaO  lab,    they  were 

struck.  struck. 

Consuetudinal  Past. 

1.  buailcí  mé,  I  used  to  be     1.  buailci   rmn   or    mn,   we 

struck.  used  to  be  struck. 

2.  buailci  ctJ,  thou  usedst    2.  buailci  pib  or  ib,  ye  used 

to  be  struck.  to  be  struck. 

3.  buailci  é,  he  used  to  be    3.  buailci  íaO,  they  used  to 

struck.  be  struck. 


CHAP.  V.]  THE  VERB.  55 

Future. 

Singular.  Plural. 

1.  buailpeap  mé,  I  shall  or  1.  buailpeap  pmn  or  inn,  we 

will  be  struck.  shall  or  will  be  struck. 

2.  buailpeap  ótí,  thou  shalt  2.  buailpeap  pib  or   ib,  ye 

or  wilt  be  struck.  shall  or  will  be  struck. 

3.  buailpeap  é,  he  shall  or  3.  buailpeap  iat>,  they  shall 

will  be  struck.  or  will  be  struck. 


Conditional  Mood. 

1.  buailpíoe  mé,  I  would    1.  buailpíoe  pmn  or  inn,  we 

be  struck.  would  be  struck. 

2.  buailpioe      ctj,       thou    2.  buailpioe   pib   or  ib,    ye 

wouldst  be  struck.  would  be  struck. 

3.  buailpí&e  é,    he  would    3.  buailpioe  iab,  they  would 

be  struck.  be  struck. 

Infinitive  Mood. 
Do  beic  buailce,  to  be  struck. 

Participle. 
buailce,  struck. 


TV.  RELATIVE   FORM   OF   THE   VERB. 

1.  Besides  the  forms  given  in  the  preceding 
conjugation,  the  verb  has  what  is  called  a  ' '  relative 
form,"  i.e.,  a  form  nsed  after  a  relative  pronoun. 
In  two  of  the  tenses  of  the  indicative  mood, 
namely,  the  present  and  the  future,  the  relative 
form  has  a  distinct  inflection,  viz.,  ap,  ip,  eap,  or 
íop. 

2.  For  instance,  "  the  person  who  calls,"  is 
translated,  not  by  an  cé  a  goipio  (3rd  sing,  form), 
but  by  an  cé  a  goipeap;  and  "  he  who  will  steal," 
is  not  an  cé  a  goibpíó  (3rd  sing,  form),  but  an 
ré  a  £oit>peap.     In   other  tenses  and  moods  the 


56  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART   II. 

relative  form  is  the  same  as  that  of  the  third  per- 
son singular. 

3.  This  form  of  the  verb  is  often  used  even  when  its  nomi- 
native is  not  a  relative,  but  a  noun  or  personal  pronoun,  to 
express  the  "  historical  present,"  i.e.,  the  present  tense  used 
for  the  past;  as  piappaigeap  dirhipftin  a  b-ainim  Oi, 
"  Amergin  asks  her  name  of  her."  (See  for  a  further  account 
oP  the  historical  present,  p.  57.) 

4.  And  not  unfrequently  the  relative  form  is  used  as  an 
ordinary  present ;  as,  lp  móp  an  c-iongna  liompa,  nac 
O'Oipin  lappap  pionn  mipe,  "It  is  a  great  wonder  to  me 
that  it  is  not  for  Oisin  Finn  seeks  (íappap)  me." 

V.  FORMATION  AND  USES  OF  THE  MOODS  AND  TENSES 
OF  REGULAR  VERBS. 

1.  The  second  person  singular  of  the  imperative 
mood,  active  voice,  is  the  root  or  simplest  form  of 
the  verb,  from  which  all  the  other  persons,  moods, 
and  tenses  are  formed  directly,  by  affixing  the 
various  terminations. 

2.  Verbs  which  end  in  a  consonant  preceded  by 
a  slender  vowel  have  all  their  inflections  precisely 
like  those  of  buail  (with  the  exception  mentioned 
in  Par.  4,  p.  60)  ;  and  they  all  begin  with  a 
slender  vowel  (except  sometimes  that  of  the  infini- 
tive) in  accordance  with  the  rule  caol  le  caol  &c. 

3.  But  when  the  final  consonant  is  preceded  by 
a  broad  vowel,  the  synthetic  terminations  begin 
with  a  broad  vowel,  in  accordance  with  the  same 
rule.  A  table  of  the  full  conjugation  of  a  re- 
gular verb  ending  in  a  broad  vowel  is  given  at 
page.  64. 

4.  The  root  generally  remains  unchanged 
through  all  the  variations  of  the  verb,  except  that 
it  occasionally  suffers  a  trifling  change  in  the  in- 
finitive. The  cases  in  which  the  root  suffers  change 
in  the  infinitive  are  mentioned  in  Par.  4.  p.  60 : 
See  also  Par.  8,  p.  63. 


CHAP.  V.  'j  THE  VERB.  57 

Indicative  Mood. 
Present  Tense. 

1.  The  present  tense  is  formed  by  affixing  the 
six  personal  terminations  im  (or  aim),  íp  (or 
dip),  &c,  to  the  root. 

2.  The  historical  present,  i.e.,  the  present  tense 
used  for  the  past,  or  where  past  time  is  intended, 
is  very  common  in  Irish  ;  indeed  in  many  narrative 
and  historical  pieces  it  occurs  quite  as  often  as  the 
ordinary  past  tense  in  relating  past  transactions ; 
as,  Oalalc,  íomoppo,  ollriiuigéeap  long  leip,  "  as 
to  Ith,  indeed,  a  ship  is  prepared  by  him"  (instead 
of  ollrhuigeao,  was  prepared). 

3.  It  has  been  already  remarked  (Par.  3,  p.  56), 
that  the  relative  form  of  the  verb  is  often  used 
for  the  historical  present ;  as  noccap  Gipeiiion 
t)óib,  "  Erenion  reveals  to  them." 


Consuetudinal  Past  and  Present. 

1.  These  tenses  express  customary  action ;  as 
léigeann  mé,  I  am  in  J;he  habit  of  reading  ; 
léigeaó  pé,  he  used  to  read,  or  he  was  in  the  habit 
of  reading. 

2.  In  the  sentences, ' '  I  write  always  after  break- 
fast," and  "he  sold  bread  in  his  youth,"  the  verbs 
"  write"  and  "  sold  "  are  used  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  Irish  consuetudinal  tense ;  except,  indeed, 
that  the  idea  is  not  so  distinctly  marked  by  the 
English  phrase  as  by  the  Irish. 

3.  One  of  the  particles  t>o  or  po  is  usually  pre- 
fixed to  the  consuetudinal  past;  and  the   initial 


58  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 

consonant  is  generally  aspirated ;  as  bo  goipibip, 
they  used  to  call. 

4.  The  Irish  peasantry  seem  to  feel  the  want  of  these  two 
tenses  when  they  are  speaking  English  ;  and  they  often,  in 
fact,  attempt  to  import  them  into  the  English  language,  even 
in  districts  where  no  Irish  has  been  spoken  for  generations : 
thus  they  will  say,  "  I  do  be  reading  while  you  do  be  writing  ;" 
"  I  used  to  be  walking  every  day  while  I  lived  in  the 
country,"  &c. 

Past  Tense. 

1.  In  the  past  tense  the  initial  consonant  is  as- 
pirated in  the  active  voice,  but  not  in  the  passive 
voice. 

2.  With  the  exception  of  the  aspiration,  the 
third  singular  past  tense  is  the  same  as  the 
root. 

3.  One  of  the  particles  bo  or  po  is  generally 
prefixed  to  the  past  tense  in  both  voices ;  as  bo 
peapap,  I  stood ;  po  coblaip,  thou  sleepedst ;  bo 
molab  lab,  they  were  praised  ;  po  bucnleab  é,  he 
was  struck. 

4.  The  particle  po,  used  as  a  mark  of  the  past 
tense,  is  often  compounded  with  other  particles,  the 
p  only  being  retained,  but  it  still  causes  aspira- 
tion in  the  active  voice,  as  if  it  were  uncom- 
pounded. 

5.  The  principal  of  these  compounds  are  : — 
(1.)  Gp,  whether?  from  an  andpo  ;  as  ap  buail 

pé,  did  he  strike  ? 

(2.)  5UP>  that, from  50  and  po;  as  cpeibim  $up 
buail  pé,  I  believe  that  he  struck. 

(3.)  Tllunap,  unless,  from  muna  and  po;  as 
munap  buail  pé,  unless  he  struck. 

(4.)  Nacap,  orna'p,  or  net p,  whether  not?  from 
nac  and  po  ;  as  ndp  buail  ré,  did  not  he  strike  ? 


CHAP.  V.]  THE   VERB.  59 

(5.)  Niop,  not,  from  niand  po ;  as  níop  buail  pé, 
ne  did  not  strike.* 

6.  The  particle  po,  as  a  sign  of  past  tense,  is 
also  often  combined  with  the  relative  pronoun  a  ; 
as  an  peap  b'ap  geallap  mo  leabap,  the  man  to 
whom  I  promised  my  book.  For  a  further  account 
of  this,  see  Syntax. 

Future  Tense. 

1.  All  the  personal  inflections  of  this  tense,  in 
both  voices,  begin  with  the  letter  p,  which,  in  the 
spoken  language,  is  often  sounded  like  h  ;  thus 
búnpao,  I  shall  shut,  is  colloquially  pronounced 
doonhad  (instead  of  doonfad). 

Conditional  Mood. 

1.  The  particle  bo,  causing  aspiration,  is  often 
prefixed  to  verbs  in  the  conditional  mood ;  as  bo 
piubalpcnnn,  I  would  walk. 

2.  But  very  often  also  X)á,  if,  or  írmna,  unless, 
is  prefixed,  and  with  these  particles  the  initial  is 
eclipsed;  asbá  b-pa$ainn-pemopo§a,  "if  I  would 
get  my  choice;"  muna  m-beióeaó  pé,  "unless  he 
would  be." 

3.  It  is  important  to  note  that  the  personal  in- 
flections of  this  mood  in  both  voices,  as  well  as 
those  of  the  future  indicative,  all  begin  with  p. 

Infinitive  Mood. 

1.  The  initial  is  aspirated  in  the  infinitive, 
whether  the  particle  bo  or  a  be  expressed  or  under- 

*  See  Second  Irish  Book  by  the  Society  for  the  Preservation 
of  the  Irish  Language,  p.  53. 


60  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART    II. 

stood.  But  in  some  cases  the  aspiration  is  pre- 
vented by  other  grammatical  influences,  as  shown 
in  next  paragraph. 

2.  When  the  infinitive  is  preceded  by  one  of  the 
possessive  pronouns,  the  initial  of  the  verb  falls 
under  the  influence  of  the  pronoun.* 

(1.)  It  is  aspirated  for  a,  his;  mo,  my;  bo,  thy 
(but  here  the  influence  of  the  pronoun  is  not  per- 
ceived, as  there  would  be  aspiration  without  it) ; 
as  t>á  gonaó,  to  wound  him  (literally  to  his 
wounding,  and  so  of  the  others)  ;  bo  m'gonab,  to 
wound  me  ;  bo  b'gonab,  to  wound  thee. 

(2.)  It  is  preserved  from  aspiration  by  a,  her; 
as  bá  0-onab,  to  wound  her. 

(3.)  It  is  eclipsed  by  the  three  plural  posses- 
sives;  as  bap  n-gonab,  to  wound  us;  bo  bup 
n-gonab  to  wound  you  ;  bd  n-sonab,  to  wound 
them. 

3.  The  general  way  of  forming  the  infinitive  is 
by  adding  ab  or  eab,  the  first  when  the  last  vowel 
of  the  root  is  broad ;  the  second  when  the  vowel 
is  slender. 

4.  If  the  final  consonant  of  the  root  be  preceded 
by  l  as  part  of  a  diphthong  or  triphthong,  the 
final  vowel  is  made  broad  in  the  infinitive  (which 
is  usually,  but  not  always,  done  by  dropping  the 
i)  ;  as  buail,  bualab;  50m,  5-onab,  to  wound. 
But  if  the  final  consonant  be  preceded  by  1 
alone,  the  infinitive  is  formed  according  to  the 
general  rule  in  the  last  paragraph;  as  mill,  mil- 
leab,  to  destroy. 

5.  The  infinitives  of  many  verbs  are  formed 
irregularly,  and  these  must  be  learned  by  prac- 


*  For  the  influence   of  the  possessive  pronouns,  see  pages 
9,  11,  12;  and  see  also  Syntax. 


CHAP.    V.]  THE   VEEB.  61 

tice.  The  following  are  a  few  of  such  verbs. 
Each  group  exhibits  a  particular  type,  in  which 
the  manner  of  forming  the  infinitive  will  be  obvv- 
ous  on  inspection. 


or  Imperative. 

Infinitive. 

éas. 

O'éas,  to  die. 

pnárh. 

Oo  pnárh,  to  swim. 

61. 

O'ól,  to  drink. 

cap-pains. 

Oo  cannams,  to  draw. 

cuip. 

Oo  cup,  to  put. 

501L 

Oo  50I,  to  weep. 

imip. 

0'irnipc,  to  play. 

ITlgll. 

O'mgrtc,  to  graze. 

bibip. 

Oo  Oibipc,  to  banish. 

ceil. 

Oo  ceilo,  to  conceal. 

P<55- 

0'  ptísbáil,  to  leave. 

5ab. 

Oo  gabdil,  to  take. 

CÓ5. 

Oo  cosbdil,  to  lift. 

lean. 

Oo  leanamain,  to  follow. 

caill. 

Oo  cailleaniam,  to  lose. 

oil. 

O'oilearhain,  to  nourish. 

poill. 

O'-poilleaiiiain  to  suit. 

Sluaip. 

Oo  gluapacc,  to  move. 

éipc. 

O'éipceacc,  to  listen. 

T] 

3E  Participle. 

1.  The  active  participle  is  merely  the  infinitive 
mood,  with  some  such  particle  as  05  prefixed ;  as 
05  bualaó  at  beating  or  a-beating. 

2.  The  .passive  participle  is  generally  formed 
by  adding  ce  or  ce  when  the  last  vowel  of  the 
root  is  slender,  and  ca  or  ca,  when  broad. 

When  the  root  ends  in  c,  0, 1,  11,  n,  nn,  p,  c,  or  §  (except 
verbs  in  tug  or  15),  the  c  of  the  participial  termination  re- 
tains its  sound  :  after  any  other  consonant,  and  also  in  verbs 
in  1115  or  15,  the  c  is  aspirated.  In  the  passive  voice,  the 
terminations  cap  and  ci  follow  the  same  law. 


62  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II» 


VI.   VERBS   IN   U1J5,    &C. 

1.  Verbs  of  two  or  more  syllables  with  the  root 
ending  in  ui£,  or  15,  and  some  other  dissyllabic 
verbs  ending  in  il,  in,  ip,  and  ip,  differ  so  decidedly 
from  the  model  verb  in  the  formation  of  some  of 
their  moods  and  tenses,  that  some  writers,*  not 
without  reason,  class  them  as  a  second  conjuga- 
tion. 

2.  The  difference  lies  in  the  formation  of  the 
future  and  of  the  conditional  in  both  voices  ;  the 
other  moods  and  tenses  are  formed  like  those  of 
buail. 

3.  In  bucul,  and  all  other  verbs  of  its  kind,  the 
letter  p  is  a  characteristic  mark  of  the  future 
and  of  the  conditional  mood  in  both  voices,  as 
stated  in  Par.  3,  p.  59. 

4.  The  verbs  now  under  consideration  have  no 
p  in  the  future  and  conditional,  but  they  take  in- 
stead, eó,  before  the  final  consonant  of  the  root. 

5.  In  addition  to  this  change,  verbs  in  U15  and 
15  change  5  into  c ;  though  in  the  spoken  lan- 
guage of  most  parts  of  Ireland,  the  $  retains  its 
place. 

6.  There  is  no  other  inflectional  difference  be- 
tween these  verbs  and  buail,  the  personal  ter- 
minations following  the  final  consonant  of  the 
root  being  the  same  in  all  cases. 

7.  In  the  other  tenses  of  the  indicative,  verbs 
in  ll,  in,  ip  and  ip  are  almost  always  syncopated 
by  the  elision  of  the  vowel  or  diphthong  preceding 
the  final  root  consonant,  ascooail,  sleep,  coolaim, 

*  As  for  instance  the  Rev.  Canon  Bourke  in  bis  "  College 
Irish  Grammar." 


CHAP.  V.]  THE    VERB.  63 

I  sleep,  &c.     (But  this  change  is  not  regarded  as 
grammatical  inflection.) 

8.  Verbs  in  ui§  almost  always  form  their  in- 
finitive by  dropping  the  1  and  adding  the  usual  ter- 
mination ao  ;  those  in  15  alone  (not  preceded  by  u), 
retain  the  i  and  take  u  after  it  in  the  infinitive  : 
as  comapcuig,  mark ;  infinitive,  coriiapéugaó  ; 
coniaipli<5,  advise;  infinitive,  corhaipliu^aó. 

9.  Sometimes  there  are  other  slight  changes, 
caused  chiefly  by  the  rule  coal  le  caol  &c,  which 
will  be  obvious  on  inspection. 

10.  The  following  are  a  few  examples  of  the 
formation  of  the  present  and  future  indicative, 
and  of  the  conditional  mood,  in  such  verbs.  The 
first  person  singular  only  is  given  in  each  case,  as 
the  other  persons  have  the  same  terminations  as 
buail  and  meall. 

Root  or  imper.  Pres.  indie.      Future  indie.      Conditional  Mood. 

Oipig,  direct.  Oípigiin.      bípeócab.  bípeócmnn. 

(5pá&ui(5,  love.  spáóuigini.spdióeócab.  sptíióeóóamn. 

Labaip,  speak.  labpaim.    laibeópab.  laibeópainn. 

Cappuin5,  draw,  ccnpngim.  caipeon^at).  caipeón 5011111. 

popgail,  open,  popslcnm.  poipseólaO.  poipseólamn. 

Copam,  defend,  copnaim.    coipeónat).  coipeónawn. 

Inmp,  tell,  mmpim.      mneópat).  mneópamn. 

Oíbip,  banish.  Oíbpmi.       Oíbeópab.  Oíbeópamn. 

11.  In  Munster,  verbs  in  il,  m,  ip,  and  íp,  are 
conjugated  like  those  in  uig  or  15;  and  the  eó 
comes  after  the  final  consonant:  thus  bibip, 
banish,  is  made  in  the  future  and  conditional, 
Oíbpeógao  and  oíbpeógainn,  as  if  the  verb  were 
oibpij). 

12.  A  table  of  the  full  conjugation  of  a  verb  in 
uig  (ápOui^)  is  given  at  page  65. 


64 


ETYMOLOGY. 


[PART  IT. 


p 

E* 

P     - 

p^>  £> 

pip.  2 

a 

PM 

^ 

© 

.id 

CD 

P 

c3 

■— . 

e2 

<D 

a 

p. 

a 

OQ 

u 

a 

0 

a 

ri^EfOjO.Pi).© 


^1 
.1  a 


a      vp- 

g  -o  jo 
a  a  a 


££p 


2  5  . 
£  a  \ 
5  u  i 


a  a  i 
a;  cp  < 
E  £  ! 


I   co  © 

£  £ 


P  P-vO 

5  5  5 

c  a  o 

CD  CD    CD 

£  £  £ 


P  i>  JO 

a  a  a 


a  a  c 

CD    CD    CD 

•S-s-E 


lit 

a  -o  a 


a  a  a 

CD    CD    CD 

£  •£  •£ 


£  '-2  -2 
a  5  5 
P-p-P- 

a  a  a 

CD    CD    CD 

£  £  £ 


5  5o|' 

P.   jX    p.    r 


a  a  a 
co  cd  S 
£  £  £ 


P        Ci  ! 

a  K3  a  > 
P-P-P-  p 


a  a  a  • 

CD   CD   O   ■ 

£•£•£  , 


•pOOJ\[  OAI^UOipUJ 


CHAP.  V.J 


65 


gig 

p 

E*2 

P 

P 

P                 | 

Pi©  J= 

pso\o 

p?cTj: 

pao"j= 

pPP 

p.  P-  2 

r  r  0 

r  r  c 

=  p  a 

.fc 

p.  P-  r- 

p.p.2 

P-P-    r= 

p-P-^ 

5       I? 

5        5 

í    J 

p- 
a 

© 

*S 

a 

0 

°V 

P- 

a 

W                  ^ 

O                   G 

•to 
p 

| 

40 

•K> 

■0 

CD 

T          JO 
•O          P-i  <d 

vo         ^    c 

E  Vol 

Prese: 

JO 
PL 
S3 

(£ 

JO 

a 

JO 

s3" 

JO 
P. 
S3 

jo     c  r- 

P-      5  5 

Passiv 
.  as  the 

^•^^-^ 

^-^— ~.  ^^ — , 

, .  0  «a 

Is- 

p-S^ 

Is- 

l*0       I"0-    c 

E  -o  «  's   a 

a 

© 

0      §)•-? 

o 

P. 

3 

so 

P- 

•^        ©15 

a 

a 

a 

O          >  Ph 

0 

02 

a 

•u 

i.       S 

•u 

•tb 

•tb 

VD 

<5         ■"§ 

SO          - 

•K> 

© 

p         CO 
8 

JO 

p 

JO 

p. 

p 

JO 

p. 

JO 
P- 

JO          P 

p. 

H 

P. 

<a 

S3 

S3 

S3 

1  JO 

it      £r 

3  ÍP1P1-3 

.  ^   3  p  p 

«         X)  JO  -O 

JO 

•tc  -tC  40 

5  5  5 

O  JO  JO 

pi  - 
p-p-SI 

■i?p 
p  p 
jo  a 
P-© 

§"p-  p- 
c  a  a 

P  fOjO 

0  c  a 
©  ©  © 

ic  -he  -vz 

B  B  p 

JO  JO  JO 

O  -JO' 

*■   Jlle 

k:  -ic  -ic  0  0  vo  i 

P    P    P  1  O    CD    O 

P    ^5 

r  •'-  r 

Ó  ó  <3 

SO  vo  O 

'J    'J    CJ    0     _ 

jo  jo  jo  %  --2 

2     i  P-  p-p- 

t=-^£- 

S3 

P-  P-  &1  P-  P-  P-i  p-  p-  p-j  ir  p-  P"  t?  -ic 

|o        tX3S3  S3 

SD  S3  S3    ,-——-, 

a  vo  so  ;s3  S3  >c  ;Kj  S3  so;s3  a  *o   g   p| 

r        « 

^VPv^ 

1 

<D  !              f\               vD    VP-    P-l 

-S3         ® 

<D 

E  u  p. 

p.       p-  p  ■  P-5M 

P- 

p  P---2 

•tb_ 

p. 

C   c_<D  ! 

B   PPJ 

p.g  a   a  0  0  a  -ipjo  ^   c 

g      ■*?*? 

to  -to  -to 

§1 

IC4C4C' 

A.  jV  1    -o  0  0  -6  0  <D    §    © 

^H-'-IOOOC    SO  SO  O    —    -= 

1  ill 

so  S3 

B  B  5 
p.  p.  p. 

<3  S3  S3 

jo  a 

P-  CD 
S3 

p  P  P  ;' 
0  jo  jo  ! 

^.  ^  p- 

O  S3  S3 

P   P   P  ! 
O  JO  jo  | 

0*0  so" » 

0  0  a;    0  cd  0  ;^  .p- 

D^jO    JO/OjDo    .- 
5  S3  S3  ,S3  S3  S3  ]'£     S 

-H  ci  có 

-H(?í  CO 

-ÍOÍCÓ     r 

4<m'co  t 

_©    . 

H  ClCO      r 

-í  ci  có  '^í  ci  cc;  w 

"43  r- 

as     " 

s  ^ 

B) 

c    « 

e3    O 

g^    - 

*->  p 

a  § 
0  J-1 

5"  § 

•P  Ci 

O 

P 
ft 

§^        ! 
0 

•pOOJ\[  8AIlT!0Tpnl 

66  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 

VII.    IRREGULAR  VERBS. 

1.  There  are  fourteen  irregular  verbs,  several 
of  which  are  defective,  i.e.,  want  one  or  more  of 
the  moods  and  tenses.  The  conjugation  of  some 
of  them,  it  will  be  observed,  is  made  up  of  that  of 
two  or  more  different  verbs. 

2.  It  will  also  be  observed  that  through  all 
their  irregularities,  the  five  synthetic  personal 
terminations  remain  unchanged  ;  for  which  reason 
it  is  scarcely  correct  to  call  these  verbs  irregular 
at  all. 

3.  The  irregular  verbs  are  as  follows  : — (1), 
cdim,  I  am  ;  (2),  the  assertive  verb  ir ;  (3),  beipim, 
I  give ;  (4),  beipim,  I  bear ;  (5),  cim,  I  see  (in- 
cluding peicim);  (6),  cluinim,  I  hear  ;  (7),  oéan- 
ann,  I  do;  (8),  ^nim  or  nim,  I  do;  (9),  Oeipim, 
I  say;  (10),  pagcum  or  geibim,  I  find  ;  (11),  icim, 
I  eat;  (12),  pigirn,  I  reach;  (13),  céiúim,  I  go ; 
(14),  C15UT1,  I  come. 

4.  The  following  is  the  synthetic  conjugation  of 
the  irregular  verbs  (except  in  the  case  of  the  second 
verb  íp,  which  has  no  synthetic  conjugation). 
They  may  be  all  conjugated  analytically,  by  using 
the  third  person  singular  of  each  tense  with  the 
three  personal  pronouns  singular  and  plural,  as 
shown  in  case  of  the  regular  verb  at  page  49. 
As  an  example,  the  analytic  conjugation  of  the 
present  tense  of  the  first  verb,  cdim,  is  given. 

(1.)  Cdim,  I  am. 

Imperative  Mood. 
Singular.  Plural. 

1 1.  bímíp ,  let  us  be. 

2.  bi,  be  thou.  2.  bíÓíO,  be  ye. 

3.  bi&ea&  fé,  or  bío&  r é,  3.  btoíp,  let  them  be. 

let  him  be . 


CHAP.  V.]  THE  VERB,  67 


Indicative  Mood. 
Present  Tense» 

Singular.  Plural. 

1.  cdim,  acdim,  I  am.  1.  cdmaoit»,  acdmaoib,  we 

are. 

2.  cdip,  acdip,  thou  art.  2.  cdcaoi,  acdcaoi,  ye  are. 

3.  cd  pé,  acd  pé,  be  is.  3.  edit»,  acdit»,  they  are. 


analytic  conjugation. 

1.  cd  mé,  acd  mé,  I  am:  1.  cd  firm,  acd  pinn,  we 

are. 

2.  cd  cti,   acd  cú,  thou  2.  cd  fib,    acd  rib,  ye 

art.  are. 

3.  cd  ré,  acd  ré,  he  is.  3.  cd  riat>,  acd  pat),  they 

are. 

Consuetudinal  Present. 

1.  bi&im,  I  am  usually.  1.  bímít»,     bí&mít»,     bio- 

maoib,  we  are  usually. 

2.  bíúip,  thou  art  usually.  2.  bící,  bí&cí,  ye  are   usu- 

ally. 

3.  bíóeann  pé,  or  bíonn  pé,    3.  bit»,  bíúit»,  they  are  usu- 

he  is  usually.  ally. 

Interrogative  and  Negative  Present. 
(The  negative  particle  is  here  used :  see  Par.  3,  p.  69.) 

1.  ni  b-puilim,  I  am  not.*  ].  nt  b-puilmib,  we  are  not. 

2.  ni  b-puilip,  thou  art  not.       2.  ni  b-puilci,  ye  are  not. 

3.  ní  b-puil  pé,  he  is  not.  3.  ni  b-puilib,  they  are  not. 


*  These  are  commonly  pronounced  in  conversation  as  if  the 
b-pui  were  omitted  in  each  case  ;  and  accordingly  they  are 
often  contracted  in  books  to  ní'lim,  ní'tip,  ni'l  pé,  &c. 


68  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 


Past  Tense. 

Singular.  Plural. 

\.  bioeap,  bíop,  I  was.  1.  bioearnap,  biomap,  we 

were. 

2.  biOip,  bip,  thou  wert.  2.  blóeabap,    bíobap,     ye 

were. 

3.  bíO  pé,  bí  pé,  he  was.  3.  bíOeaOap,  bíoOap,   they 

were. 


Consuetudinal  Past. 

1.  bioinn,  binn,  I  used  to  be.       1.  bíOmíp,  bimip,  we  used 

to  be. 

2.  bibced,  biced,  thou  usedst    2.  bíoéí,  bící,  ye  used  to 

to  be.  be. 

3.  bioeao  p é,  bíoO  pé,  he  used  3.  bíobíp,  WWr,   they  used 

to  be.  to  be. 


Interrogative  and  Negative  Past. 
(The  negative  particle  is  here  used :  see  Par.  3,  p.  69). 


1.  ni  pabap,  I  was  not.  1.  ni  pabamap,   we    were 

not. 

2.  ni  pabaip,  thou  wert  not.        2.  nipababap,  ye  were  not. 

3.  ní  paib  pé,  he  was  not.  3.  ni  pabcfoap,  tbey  were 

not. 


Future. 

1.  bei&eat»,  I  shall  be.  1.  beibmiO,  we  shall  be. 

2.  beiOip,  thou  shalt  be.  2.  beiOiO,  ye  sball  be. 

3.  beiO  pé,  he  shall  be.  3.  beiOit»,  they  shall  be. 


CHAP.  V.]  TUE  VERB.  59 


Conditional  Mood. 

1.  beiomn,  I  would  be.  1.  beiomip,  we  would  be. 

2.  beiocetí,  thou  wouldst  be.       2.  bei&ci,  ye  would  be. 

3.  beibeao  ré,  or  beic  ré,       3.  beibip,  tbey  would  be. 

be  would  be. 

Infinitive  Mood. 
Do  beic,  to  he. 

Pauticiple. 
G5  beic,  being. 

1.  TJá  is  commonly  called  the  substantive  verb, 
and  answers  to  the  verb  "  to  be"  in  English. 

2.  It  has  two  forms,  which  the  regular  verb  has 
not,  namely,  a  form  in  the  present  tense  for  in- 
terrogation and  negation  (b~puilim),  and  a  form 
in  the  past  tense  for  the  same  (pabap).  These 
two  are  classed  by  0' Donovan  as  a  subjunctive 
mood,  present  and  past  tense. 

3.  The  forms  b-puilim  and  pabap  are  used 
only:— 

(a.)  After  negative  and  interrogative  particles  ; 
as  ní  b-puil  pé  cinn,  he  is  not  sick;  ni  paib  íné 
arm  pin,  I  was  not  there:  an  b-puil  pion  in  bap 
lon^aib  ?  "Is  there  wine  in  your  ships?"  Qn 
pabaip  05  an  ^-cappaig?  "Wert  thou  at  the 
rock"  (or  at  Carrick)  ?  O  nac  b-puil  oul  uaió 
05am,  "since  I  cannot  escape  from  him"  (lit. 
"since  it  is  not  with  me  to  go  from  him");  an 
b-puil  a  piop  agac  pern,  a  phmn  ?  ni  pull,  ap 
pionn,  "  'Is  the  knowledge  of  it  with  thyself, 
OFinn?'      'It  is   not,'  says  Finn." 

(But  these  forms  are  not  used  after  the  inter- 
rogative cionnap,  how?) 


70  ETYMOLOGY,  [PART  II. 

(£.)  After  50,  that ;  as  beipim  50  b-puilpé  pldn, 
I  say  that  he  is  well. 

(c.)  After  the  relative  a  when  it  follows  a  pre- 
position, or  when  it  signifies  "  all  that"  (Par.  8, 
page  47) ;  as  cpeub  é  an  ppea^pa  cabappaip 
ap  Ohia,  05  a  b-puil  piop  Oo  locc?  "  What 
answer  wilt  thou  give  to  God,  who  has  a  know- 
ledge of  thy  sins  ?"  (lit.  "  with  whom  is  a  know- 
ledge") ;  a  b-puil  6  áó-cliaó  50  h-Oileán  mop  an 
iDhappaig,  "  all  that  is  from  Ath-cliath  (Dublin)  to 
Oileán  mór  an  Bharraigh ;"  00  beipmfo  ap  m-bpia- 
cap  nac  beaj5  linn  a  m-beupam  50  pionn  010b, 
"  we  pledge  our  word,  that  we  do  not  think  it 
little,  all  that  we  shall  bring  of  them  to  Finn." 

4.  This  verb,  like  verbs  in  general,  has  a  rela- 
tive form  for  the  present  and  future ;  but  the  rela- 
tive form  of  the  present  is  always  a  consuetudinal 
tense  (whereas  in  regular  verbs  it  is  generally  not 
consuetudinal)  ;  as  map  an  5-céabna  bíop  (or 
bíóeap)  an  bdp  an  oipcill  bo  piop  ap  an  bume ; 
"  in  like  manner  death  is  (in  the  habit  of )  lying 
in  wait  always  for  man." 

5.  The  analytic  form  of  this  verb  is  now  far 
more  common  in  the  spoken  language  than  the 
synthetic.  In  asking  a  question  the  analytic  form 
is  often  preferred:  but  in  answering,  the  syn- 
thetic ;  as  an  paib  cú  05  an  g-Cappais  ?  ^  t>o 
biop  05  an  5-Cappais,  "Were  you  at  Oarrick? 
I  was  at  Carrick." 

6.  The  letter  a  is  often  prefixed  to  the  present 
tense  both  in  speaking  and  writing :  acd  instead 
of  cd,  &c. ;  it  is  sometimes  slightly  emphatic,  btrt 
oftener  merely  euphonic,  and  does  not  otherwise 
affect  the  meaning. 

7.  This  verb  is  often  used  as  an  auxiliary,  like 
the  verb  "to  be"  in  English;  and  it  is  the  only 
verb  in  the  Irish  language  that  can  be  regarded 


CHAP.  V.]  THE   VERB.  71 

as  an  auxiliary.  Thus,  instead  of  buailceap  mé, 
I  am  struck,  we  can  say  có*  mé  bum  Ice :  for  t>o 
buaileaó  me,  I  was  struck,  bo  bí  mé  buailce,  &c. 


(2.)  lp,  it  is. 

Indicative  Mood. 

Present  Tense, 

lp,  it  is  :  as  ir-  mé,  it  is  I ;  ip  GÚ,  it  is  tbou. 

Past  Tense, 
ba  or  buo,  it  was  ;  as  ba  me,  it  was  I. 

Future  Tense. 

bub  or  bur,   it  will  be. 

Conditional  Mood. 

bab,  it  would  be. 

L  This  is  commonly  called  the  assertive  verb. 

2.  It  has  no  inflection  for  person,  being  always 
used  in  the  third  person  singular :  hence  it  is 
often  called  the  impersonal  verb. 

3.  It  has  no  other  moods  and  tenses  besides 
those  given  above. 

4.  It  takes  other  forms  in  the  modern  language, 
some  of  them  contracted,  which  are  often  puzzling 
to  learners. 

5.  After  ^up,  that,  it  is  often  made  ab,  which 
is  given  by  O'Donovan  as  a  subjunctive  mood ;  as 
cpeibim  ^iip  ab  é  oxá  cmn,  I  believe  that  it  is  he 
(who)  is  sick :  meapmm  bá  péip  pm,  ^up  ab  ba 
bliagain  a^up  pice  pul  pu^ab  Gbpaham  óánic 
papóolón  i  n-Gipinn,  "I  think,  according  to  that 


72  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 

that  it  is  two  years  and  twenty  before  Abraham 
was  born,  that  Partholon  came  to  Erin." 

6.  Yery  often  gup  ab  is  shortened  by  omitting 
the  a  ;  as  cpeibim  ^up  'bé,  &c.;  and  sometimes 
the  b  is  joined  to  ^up,  as  cpeibim  o"upb  &,  &c 

7.  After  ma,  if,  the  l  is  omitted,  as  md'p  píop  é, 
if  it  be  true ;  and  in  this  case  the  p  is  often  joined 
to  the  má ;  as  map  píop  é  :  map  maió  leac  a  beic 
buan,  caic  puap  agnp  ceic,  "if  you  wish  to  be 
long-lived,  drink  cold  and  hot"  (or  "drink  cold 
and  flee" — a  celebrated  Irish  saying  of  double 
meaning). 

8.  Sometimes  ba  or  ba  is  shortened  to  b  or  b 
alone,  which  again  is  often  joined  to  the  preced- 
ing word ;  as  laoc  o'dp  b'ainm  Lip,  or  laoc 
bapb  ainin  Lip,  "  a  hero  whose  name  was 
Lir;"  of  which  the  full  construction  is,  laoc  bo 
apoba  ainm  Lip,  "  a  hero  to  whom  was  name  Lir." 

9.  There  is  another  form,  pd,  for  the  past  tense, 
which  is  now  disused,  but  which  is  constantly  used 
by  Keating,  and  by  other  writers  of  the  seven- 
teenth and  eighteenth  centuries :  pd  cpéanpeap 
an  Ceac  po,  "  this  Ceat  was  a  mighty  man  ;"  íp  í 
(banba)  pa  bean  Oo  TTlliac  Coill,  tfap  b'amm 
bíliop  Gaéúp,  "  it  is  she  (Banba)  who  was  wife  to 
Mac  Coll,  whose  proper  name  was  Eathur;"  óp  é 
an  pcoicbéapla  pd  ceanga  coicceann  pan  Scicia 
an  cpdc  bo  cpiall  "Neníieaó  aipbe,  "since  it  is 
the  Scotic  language  which  was  the  common  tongue 
in  Scj^thia  in  the  time  that  Neimheadh  emigrated 
from  it.""' 

10.  Eor  the  distinction  between  cd  and  íp,  see 
Idioms. 


*For  the  various  forms  assumed  by  this  verb  in  the  ancient 
language,  see  O'Donovan's  most  instructive  article  in  his 
"  Irish  Grammar,"  p.  161. 


With  the  usual 


CHAP.  V.]  THE   VEEB.  73 

(3.)  bheiprm,  I  give. 

A  CTIVE   VOICE. 
Imperative  Mood. 
Singular.  PluraL 

1.  .    .    .  1.  cabpamaoip. 

2.  cabaip.  2.  cabpaib. 

3.  cabpabpé.  3.  cabpabaoip. 

Indicative  Mood. 
First  Person  Singular. 

Present:  beipirn,  cabpcnm,  or 

cusaim. 
Consuet.  Pres. :  beipecmn. 
Past:  cusar. 

Consuet.  Past :  beipmn,  cusainn.  \,  terminations  for 

Future :  béappab,  cabappab.  tneotnerpersom 

and  numbers 

Conditional     béappcnrm,  cabappamn. 
Mood: 

Infinitive;  bo  cabaipc.    Participle;  05  cabaipc. 

PASSIVE  VOICE. 

Imperative  ;  beipceap,  cábapcap,  cuscap,  mé,  6tí,  é,  &c. 

Indicative  Mood. 

Present:  beipceap,  cuftcap.  ^ 

Past :  cusab.  J 

Consuet.  Past :  beipcibe,  cujcaibe. 

Future:  béappap,  cabappap.  J-TTlé,  tú,  é,  to. 

Conditional      béappmbe,  cabappaifte. 
Mood: 

Infinitive  ;  bo  beic  cabapca,  bo  beic  cugca. 

Participle;  cabapca,  cugca. 


74  ETYMOLOGY.  [PAET   II. 

1.  This  verb  is  made  up  of  three  different  verbs : 
in  some  of  the  tenses  any  one  of  the  three  may 
be  employed ;  in  some,  either  of  two ;  and  in  some 
only  one ;  as  shown  in  the  paradigm. 

2.  In  the  present  tense,  beipim  (but  not  the 
other  two  verbs)  takes  the  particle  t>o  (which  is  a 
mark  of  the  past  in  regul(?.r  verbs),  and  commonly 
has  its  initial  aspirated. 


(4.)  beipim,  Hear. 

ACTIVE    VOICE. 
Imperative  Mood. 


Singular. 

1.  .      .      . 

2.  beip. 

3.  beipeao  pé< 

1. 

2. 
3. 

Plural, 
beipimip. 
beipio. 
beipibip. 

Indicative  Mood. 

First  Person  Singular. 
Present:                 beipim. 
Consuet.  Present:   beipecmn. 
Past:                       pusap. 
Consuet.  Past :        beipmn. 
Future :                 béappao. 

- 

With  the  usual 
terminations  for 
>  the  other  persons 
and  numbers. 

Conditional          béappainn. 
Mood: 

Infinitive;  bobpeió.       Participle;  a$  bpeié. 


PASSIVE    VOICE. 
Imperative  Mood;  beipceap  mé,  cú,  é,  &c. 


CHAP.  V.] 


75 


Indicative  Mood. 

Present:            beipceap. 
Past:                 pugao. 
Consuet.  Past :  beipci. 
Future:            béappap. 

>  me,  ctí,  é,  &c. 

Conditional     béappaióe. 
Mood: 

Infinitiyb;  bo  beic  beipce.      Par 

nciPLE;  beipce. 

(5.)  Cim,  I  see. 

ACTIVE    VOICE. 

Imperative  Mood. 
Singular.                                                Plural. 

1.  .    .    .                            1.  peicimíp,  peicimib. 

2.  peic.                               2.  peicib. 

3.  peiceaó  pé.                   3.  peicibíp. 

Indicative  Mood. 

Present  Tense. 

1.  óíomi,  cim,  peicim.  1.  ciomib,  címío,  peicimío 

2.  cíoip,  cíp,  peicip.  2.  cíócí,  cící,  peiccí. 

3.  cíoio  pé,  cio  pé,  peicio  pé.     3.  cíoib,  cíb,  peicib. 

Consuet.  Pres.;  cíDeann,  peiceann,  mé,  cú,  pé,  &c. 


Past. 


1.  óonnapcap. 

2.  óormapcaip. 

3.  óonnaipc  pé. 


1.  óoncamap. 

2.  óoncabap. 

3.  óoncaOap. 


First  Person  Singular. 
Consuet.  Past  :  óíomri  or  6ínn. 
Future  :  óíopeab  or  cípeaO, 


J     With  the  usual 
J  terminations  for 
Conditional      Ciopirm,  or  Cipinr.,   or  [  the  other  persons 
Mood:  peicpirm.  J  and  numbers. 


Inpinitiye  Mood;  b'peicpm  or  bpeicpmc. 
Participle  ;  05  peicpin  or  05  peicpmc. 


76  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 

PASSIVE    VOICE. 

Imperative  Mood  ;  peicceap,  mé,  c1j,  é,  &o. 

Indicative  Mood. 

Present  Tense:  cibceap  or  peicceap.  1 

Past:  conn ap cab. 

Past.  Consuet. :  cíócí  or  peicci. 

Future:  ci&peap  or  peicpeap.      ^lllé,  ótj,  é,  &c. 

Conditional     cíopibe  or  peicpi&e. 
Mood  :  , 

Infinitive  Mood;  bo  tieic  peicce.       Participle;  peicce 

1.  Cíóiiri  is  defective  in  some  of  its  moods  and 
tenses,  which  are  supplied  by  other  verbs — the 
imperative  and  infinitive  by  peicim  or  paicim,  and 
the  past  indicative  of  both  voices  by  an  old  verb — 
otherwise  disused — connapcaim. 

2.  peicim  or  paicim,  although  it  is  brought  in 
among  the  irregular  verbs  to  supply  the  defects 
of  cÍDim,  is  itself  regular. 

3.  Observe  that  the  initial  of  cíóim  is  always 
aspirated. 


(6.)  Cluinim.  Ihear. 
Indicative  Mood. 

Past  Tense. 

1.  cualap.  1.  cualamap. 

2.  cualaip.  2.  cualaoap. 

3.  cualaio-  pé.  3.  cualaoap* 

Infinitive  Mood  Active;  bo  clop  or  bo  cloipcin. 

Participle  Active  ;  05  clop  or  05  cloipcin. 

1.  In  all  the  other  moods  and  tenses,  cluinim  is 
regular,  and  is  conjugated  like  buail. 


CHAP.   V.] 


THE   VERB. 


77 


(7.)  béancum,  I  do. 

A CTIVE    VOICE. 
Imperative  Mood. 
1.  •  •  •  1.  béanam,  béanamaoip, 

béanamaoib. 
2-  béan.  2.  béanaib. 

3.  béanab  pé.  3.  béanaibíp. 

Indicative  Mood. 
Past  Tense. 

1.  piéneap,  bedpnap,  béa-    1.  pigneamap,  bedpnamap, 

•nap.  béanamap. 

2.  pigmp,  bedpnaip,  béa-    2.  pigneabap,    bedpnabap, 

naip.  béanabap. 

3.  pi<5Tie  pé,  bedpnab  pé,    3.  pigneabap,    bedpnabap, 

béan  pé.  béanabap. 

First  Person  Singular. 

Present :  béanaim. 

Consuet.  Pres.  :  béanann. 

Consuet.  Past:    §TiíbiTm,beapnairm,&éa- 

nainn. 

béanpab. 


béanpairm. 


With  the 
usual  termina- 
tions for  the 
ether  persona 
and  numbers. 


Conditional 
Mood  : 

Infinitive  Mood  ;  bo  béanarh  or  bo  béanab. 

Participle  ;  05  béanarh  or  05  béanab. 

PASSIVE    VOICE. 

Imperative  Mood  ;  Déancap  mé,  cú,  é,  &c. 

Indicative  Mood. 

béancap. 

pigneab,  bedpnab. 
énící. 
béanpap. 


Present : 
Past  : 

Consuet.  Past 
Future : 


mé,  eti,  é,&c. 


Conditional         óéanpaibe. 

Mood  : 
Infinitive  Mood  ;  bo  beic  béanca.     Participle;  béanca. 

1.  This  verb  and  the  next  borrow  from  each 
other  to  form  some  of  the  moods  and  tenses  in 
which  they  are  defective. 


78 


ETYMOLOGY. 


[PABT  II. 


Present : 
Past  : 


(8.)  5nÍTri  or  ^m)  I  do. 

ACTIVE    VOICE. 
Indicative  Mood. 
First  Person  Singular. 

With  the  usual 
terminations    for 


5nim  ornim. 
gníóear  or  nfóeap. 


Consuet.  Past:     gníómn  or  ni&irm. 


'  the  other  persons 
and  numbers. 


PASSIVE    VOICE. 
Indicative  Mood. 


Present :  &niceap  or  niceap. 

Consuet.  Past :  stiící  or  nící. 


nié,  ct5,  é,  &c. 


1.  This  verb  is  used  in  no  other  moods  or  tenses  ; 
but  so  far  as  it  goes  it  is  very  common  in  both 
forms — with  and  without  the  5  (snim  and  nim). 
The  other  moods  and  tenses  are  expressed  by 
means  of  béanaim. 


Singular. 

1.  .  .  . 

2.  abaip. 

3.  abpao  ré; 


(9.)  beipim,  I  say. 

ACTIVE     VOICE. 

Imperative  Mood. 

Plural. 

1.  abpam,  abpcmriaoip.abpaniaoib. 

2.  abpaift. 

3.  abpabaoip. 


Indicative  Mood. 
Present  Tense. 


1.  beipim: 

2.  beipip. 

3.  beip  pé. 


1.  beipimíb. 

2.  beipcit) 

3.  beipit). 


Consuet.  Pres.    beipeann  me,  cú,  pó,  &c. 


CHAP.  y.J 


THE  VERB. 

Past. 


79 


1.  bubpcrp. 

2.  bubpaip. 

3.  bubaipcpé. 

First  Person  Singular. 
Constcet.  Past :       beipmn. 
Future :  béappab. 

Conditional 
Mood  : 


1.  bubpamap. 

2.  bubpabap. 

3.  bubpabap. 


IWith  the  usual 
terminations  for 
the  other  persons 
and  numbers. 


beappamn. 
Infinitive  Mood  ;  bo  pd&.      Participle;  05  p<5&. 


PASSIVE    VOICE. 


Imperative  Mood;  abaptap  mé,  cú,  é,  &c. 


Indicative  Mood. 


Present  : 


beipceap. 
Past :  bubpab. 

Consuet  Past :       beipcf. 
Future:  béappap. 


Conditional 
Mood  : 


TTlé,eú,é,&c. 


béappaibe. 

iNiiNiTrvE  Mood  ;  bo  beic  pdioce,  bo  beic  pdice. 
Participle;  pdibce,  pdice. 

1.  The  verb  abpaim,  I  say,  from  which  beipim 
borrows  its  imperative,  is  itself  a  regular  verb. 

2.  Observe  the  characteristics  of  bubpap,  the 
past  indicative  active  : — (a)  it  does  not  take  the 
participle  bo  or  po  ;  (5)  the  initial  is  not  aspirated. 

3.  The  letter  a  is  often  prefixed  to  this  verb 
for  the  sake  of  emphasis;  as  a  beipim  for  beipim, 
I  say  ;  a  bubaipc  pé  for  bubaipc  pé,  he  said. 


80  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART  II. 

(lO.)  pagcnm  or  geibiim,  I  find. 

ACTIVE    VOICE. 

Imperative  Mood. 

Singular.  Plural. 

1. .  .  .  I.  pa§maoip,  pasmaoib. 

2.  pag.  2.  pasaio. 

3.  pagao,  pé.  3.  pagcubip. 

Indicative  Mood. 
Present  Tense. 

1.  pagaiTn  or  seibim.         1.  pagmaoib  or  éeibmíb. 

2.  pagaip  or  geibip.  2.  pagcaio  or  geibcíó. 

3.  paratope,  or  geibpe.     3.  pagait»  or  jjeibib. 

Past. 

1.  puapáp.  1.  puaparhap. 

2.  puapaip.  2.  puapabap. 

3.  puaip  pé.  3.  puapat>ap. 

First  Person  Singular. 

Consuet.  Past  .•  pa$mnn  or  seibinn.  }      Witll       ^ 

Future :  góabat.,  eec-bab.  U9ual  termina 

Future  ncg .  §  mterrog .  geabab  or  bpuiseab.  [  tiona    fo].    ^ 

Conditional  Ééabairm,  geobairm.   I  and  numbers"3 

Mood:  or  b-pagmnn,  b-puisirm/ 

Infinitive;  b'pdsail.     Participle;  05  pdgail. 

PASSIVE    VOICE. 

Imperative  Mood  ;  pagcap  me,  cú,  é,  &c. 

Indicative  Mood. 

Present :  pas cap.  \ 

Past:  puapab  or  ppit. 

Consuet.  Past :    geibtl.  L  nie>  eu>  e  &c# 

Conditional        éeabóai&e,  b-puigci&e. 
Mood  :  / 

(Defective  in  Infinitive  and  Participle.) 


CHAP.  V.]  THE  VERB.  81 

1.  The  second  form  of  this  verb  (geibim)  has  its 
initial  aspirated  in  the  present  and  future  active. 

2.  The  past  tense  (puapap,  &c.)  may  or  may 
not  take  the  particle  t>o  or  po  ;  but  its  initial  con- 
sonant is  not  aspirated. 


(11.)  lciTTi,  I  eat. 

ACTIVE    VOICE. 

First  Person  Singular. 
Future  Indicative:        loppat).     n      with  the  usual  termi. 
r,  >  nations     for    the    other 

TJod0:  ^  lorpaim..  j  persons  and   numberSi 

1.  The  past  indicative  is  either  the  regular  form 
b'ióeap,  &c,  or  the  irregular  On ap  (with  the  usual 
terminations  : — buaip,  buaio  pé,  &c.) 

2.  The  infinitive  is  b'ice. 

3.  In  other  respects  this  verb  is  regular. 


(12.)  "Rigim,  I  reach. 

Imperative  Mood. 
Singular.  Plural. 

1 1.  piémíp. 

2.  pig.  2.  pigifc. 

3.  pigeaopé.  3.  pisioíp. 

Indicative  Mood. 
Present  Tense. 

Singular.  Plural. 

1.  pléiTTi  1.  pigmib. 

2.  pigip  2.  pisci. 

3.  pis  pé.  3.  P151O. 


82 


ETYMOLOGY. 


[PART  II. 


Past. 

1.  pdnjap.  1.  ptínsamap. 

2.  pánsaip.  2.  pán^abap. 

3.  páinigpé,  pdna.15  pé.  3.  pansabap. 


First  Person  Singular. 


Consuet  Past : 
Future : 


Conditional 
Mood  : 


piSirm. 
pioTeab. 


pispinn. 


With  the  usual  terroi- 
>  nations  for  the  other  per- 
|  sons  and  numbers. 


Infinitive;  bo  piaccain  or  bopoccaw. 
1.  The  past,  future,  and  conditional,  are  some- 
times expressed  by  a  different  verb,  as  follows : — 
but  this  form  (which  is  the  same  form  as  the  in- 
finitive), is  not  often  met  with  in  the  modern  lan- 
guage. 


First  Person  Singular. 
Past:  piaócap. 

Future :  piaccpab. 


Conditional 
Mood  : 


píaccpainn. 


With    the  usual    termi- 
i  nations  for  the  other  personc 
and  numbers. 


(13.)  Céioinri,  I  go. 

Imperative  Mood. 
Singular. 

1.  .    .   . 

2.  céio. 

3.  ceioeab  ré. 


Plural. 

1.  céiomíp. 

2.  céiÓiD. 

3.  célóbíp. 


Indicative  Mood. 
Present  Tense. 

Singular.  Plural. 

1.  céiolm.  1.  céibmíb. 

2.  céiólp.  2.  céi&cío  or  céicib 

3.  céiópé.  3.  céioib. 


CHAP.  V.] 


THE  VERB. 


83 


Past  Tense. 


1.  cua&ap. 

2.  cuaomp. 

3.  cuaió  pé. 


1.  cua&map. 

2.  cuaobap. 

3.  óuaooap. 


There  is  another  form  of  the  past  tense  of  this 
verb  used  after  the  particles  50,  ni,  &c.,  which 
O'Donovan  classes  as  a  subjunctive  mood.  The 
negative  rii,  which  aspirates,  is  here  prefixed :  after 
50,  the  initial  would  be  eclipsed. 


1.  -nt  oeacap 

2.  m  oeacaip. 

3.  nt  óeacaió  pé. 


1.  n1  Oeacamap. 

2.  ní  oeacabap. 
8.  nioeaoaOap. 


Consuet  Past : 
Future : 


Conditional 
Mood: 


First  Person  Singular. ' 
céiOinn. 
paópao  orpacao. 

pacpainn  or  pacairm. 


IWith  the 
usual  termina- 
tions  for  the 
other  persons 
and  numbers. 


Infinitive  ;  00  oul.       Participle  ;  05  bul. 


(14.)  ci 51m,  I  come. 
Imperative  Mood. 


Singular. 

1.  .  .  . 

2.  cap  or  C15. 

3.  cigeao  pé. 


1.  clgimip  or  cigeaTn. 

2.  C151&. 

3.  cigioip. 


Iindicative  Mood. 
Present  Tense. 


1.  ci5im. 

2.  cisip. 

3.  cispé 


1.  C151TT1ÍO. 

2.  C15Í&,  ci?jc<6 

3.  C1510. 


84 


ETYMOLOGY. 


[PART   II. 


Past  Tense. 


1.  ednsap. 

2.  cángcup. 

3.  cóinicpé. 


First  Person  Singular 


Consuet  Past 
Future : 


Conditional 
Mood: 


ciginn. 
ciocpab. 


1.  cdn^amap. 

2.  cánsabap. 

3.  Gangabap. 


IWith  the  usual  termi- 
nations for  the  other 
persons  and  numbers. 


Infinitive  ;  bo  ceaóc.       Participle  ;  05  ceaóc. 


OTHER      DEFECTIVE      VERBS. 

1.  The  following  defective  verbs  are  often  met 
with  in  the  modern  language. 

dip  or  ap,  "  says."  It  is  used  only  in  the  third 
person,  much  like  the  English  defective  verb  quoth  ; 
as,  dip  pé,  says  he  :  cpeub  t>o  óéunpcup  bam  ?  ap 
t)iapmaib:  "  'What  wilt  thou  do  for  me?'  says 
Diarmaid ;"  t>éan  eólup  bíhrm  map  a  b-puil  pé,  a\\ 
piab,  "  '  give  knowledge  to  us  where  he  is,'  said 
they  (or  say  they)."  In  the  older  writings  this  verb 
is  often  written  ol. 

dc  bac,  he  (or  she)  died. 

Dap,  it  seems,  it  seemed,  or  it  might  seem  (ac- 
cording to  the  tense  or  mood  of  the  verb  with  which 
it  is  connected).  Dap  liom,  methinks  or  me- 
thought ;  bap  leac  it  seems  or  seemed  to  thee  ; 
and  so  on  with  the  rest  of  these  prepositional  pro- 
nouns singular  and  plural  :  t)o  pic  pé,  t>a\\  liom, 
Tviap  an  gaoic,  he  ran,  methought  (or  it  seemed 
to  me)  like  the  wind. 

Dlisceap,  it  is  lawful,  it  is  allowed. 


CHAP.  IV.]  ADVERBS.  85 

Out»,  to  know;  éaimc  pé  t>up  an  paibpiat>ann,he 
came  (in  order)  to  know  whether  they  were  there. 

peaoap,  I  know;  used  only  negatively  and  in- 
terrogatively, and  in  the  present  tense  :  nipeaoap 
mé,  I  do  not  know ;  ní  peaoap  pó,  he  does  not 
know;  an  b-peaOpabap  ?  do  ye  know? 

Ni  pulchp,  it  is  necessary  (or  "must,"  used  im- 
personally) ;  ní  puldip  óam  a  beic  aip  pmbal,  f ' it  is 
necessary  for  me  to  be  (or  I  must  be"»  walking 
(away)." 


CHAPTEE    VI. 

ADVERBS,   PREPOSITIONS,   CONJUNCTIONS, 

INTERJECTIONS. 

I.    ADVERBS. 

1.  There  are  not  many  simple  adverbs  in  the 
Irish  language.  Far  the  greatest  number  of  the 
Irish  adverbs  are  compounds  of  two  or  more  words. 

2.  An  adverb  may  be  formed  from  an  adjective 
by  prefixing  the  particle  50,  which  in  this  applica- 
tion has  the  same  effect  as  the  English  postfix  ly  ; 
as  bopb,  fierce;  50  bopb,  fiercely.  Almost  all 
Irish  adjectives  admit  of  being  changed  in  this 
manner  to  adverbs. 

8.  Besides  the  adverbs  formed  in  this  way,  there 
are  many  compound  adverbs,  which  are  generally 
made  up  of  a  noun  and  a  preposition ;  the  prepo- 
sition often  causing  an  eclipsis. 

4.  The  following  is  an  alphabetical  list  of  the 
compound  adverbs  in  most  general  use,  with  a  few 
of  the  simple  adverbs.  Some  of  the  compound 
adverbs  become,  in  some  situations,  prepositions : — 
a  b-pat»,  far  off,  in  space  or       Q  O-corac,  at  first,  in  the 

time.  beginning. 

Gbup,   on   this   side.     (See       Q  O-cuaiÓ,  northwards. 

call.)  a  5-céabóip,  immediately. 


86 


ETYMOLOGY.  [_PART   II. 


0  5-cém,  far  off. 

a  0--coniTiui&e,  always. 

Q5  pin,  there. 

Q5  r o,  here. 

Q5  ftJt),  yonder. 

Oin  aip,  back,  backward. 
(See  aip  éigin.) 

Qin  ball,  on  the  spot,  in- 
stantly. 

Clip  bic,  at  all. 

Qip  bun,  on  foundation: 
cup  dip  bun,  to  found, 
to  institute. 

Qip  ceana,  in  like  manner  ; 
in  general. 

Clip  coiOce,  for  ever. 

Clip  éigm,  with  difficulty; 
perforce :— aip  aip  no  aip 
615m,  by  consent  or  by 
force :  nolens  volens  ;  willy 
nilly. 

Qip  5-CÚI,  backwards,  back  : 
cup  aip  5-cúl — the  op- 
posite to  cup  aip  bun — to 
put  back,  to  abolish. 

Qip  lei 6,  apart,  separately. 

Qip  mob,  in  a  manner;  so 
that; 

Oip  pon,  for  the  sake  of. 

Oip  uaipib,  at  times;  some- 
times. 

amaó,  out  of,  outside. 

am  dm,  alone,  only. 

amdpaó,  to-morrow. 

amui<5,  outside. 

arhuil,  like,  as. 

On  dipbe,  on  high. 

One,  yesterday. 

Oniop,  from  below,  upwards. 

ann  émpeacc,  together. 

Onn  pm,  there. 

Onn  po,  here; 

Onn  púb,  yonder. 

a  nbeap,  southward. 

anaice,  near. 


On  all,  to  this  side ;  hither. 

0  ngap,  near. 

aniu,  to-day. 

Onoip,  now. 

On  onn,  to  that  side ;  thither. 
— On  can,  when. 

anuap,  from  above,  down- 
wards. 

apéip,  last  night. 

Op  1  aril,  ever. 

Opip,  again. 

Opceac,  in,  into. 

apci<5,  in,  inside. 

beas  naó,  little  but ;  almost. 

Cd  h-ap,  cab  ap,  canap, 
from  what  ?  whence  ? 

Cd  riiéib,  how  many  ?  how 
much  ? 

Cdic,  cd  h-dic,  cia  die, 
what  place  ? 

t)e  bpi5,  because. 

Do  piop,  always. 

eabon,  that  is;  i.e.;  id  est. 

pd,  gives  an  adverbial  mean- 
ing to  some  words. 

pd  óéabóip,  immediately. 

Pd  oeoio",  at  last. 

pd  06,  twice. 

Pd  peao,  by  turns;  respec- 
tively. 

Pa  cpi,  thrice. 

5o  bpdc,  for  ever  (lit.  to 
[the]  judgment). 

5o  beirinn,  verily;  truly; 
indeed. 

5o  b-ci,  unto. 

5o  poll,  yet;  awhile. 

<5o  h-iomldn,  altogether. 

5o  léip,  entirely. 

5o  leóp,  enough. 

lomoppo,  however,  more- 
over, indeed. 

TTlaille  pe,  together  with. 

map  an  5-céabna,  hkewise; 
in  like  manner. 


CHAP.    VI.] 


map  aon  le,  together  with. 

No  50,  until. 

O  poin  ale,  from  that  time 

out. 
Op  cionn,  above. 
Stop,  downwards. 
Soip,  eastwards. 


PREPOSITION'S. 


87 


Suap,  upwards. 

Chall,  on  the  other  side;  be- 
yond.    (See  Clbup.) 

Cam  all,  awhile. 

Cuille  eile,  besides;  more- 
over. 


n.   PREPOSITIONS. 

1.  The  following  is  a  list  of  the  simple  preposi- 
tions : — 


a  or  i,  in ;  as  a  mbaile,  in 
the  town. 

0,  out  of,  or  from  (unusual) ; 
as  a  TTluTTiain,  out  of 
Munster. 

05  or  015,  at,  with. 

Clip,  ap,  upon. 

Onn,  in.  This  takes  p  before 
the  article.    (See  page  17.) 

Op,  out  of. 

Chum,  to  or  towards,  for  the 
purpose  of. 

Dap,  used  in  swearing,  equi- 
valent to  by :  bap  mo  bpia- 
cap,  "  by  my  word." 

Do,  to.     Oe,  from,  off,  of. 

eabap,  the  same  as  lbip. 

pd  or  paoi,  under. 

(5cm,  without. 

5o,  towards,  along  with.  It 
takes  p  before  the  article 
an ;  as  gup  an  b-ci$,to  the 
house. 


1,  the  same  as  a. 

lap,  after.  It  takes  p  before 
the  article  (an),  and  be- 
comes iapp. 

lbip,  between. 

lm,  the  same  as  urn. 

Le  or  pe,  with.  It  takes  p 
before  the  article  (an),  and 
then  becomes  lei]4  or  pip. 

TTlap,  like,  as. 

O,  from. 

Op,  over,  above. 

"Re,  pia,  before.  It  takes  p 
before  the  article  (an). 

Seac,  beyond,  besides. 

Cap,  over,  across.  It  takes 
PÍ  before  the  article  fan), 
and  then  becomes  capp. 

Cpé,  through.  It  takes  p 
before  the  article,  and  then 
becomes  cpép. 

Cpíb,  the  same  as  cpé. 

Um  or  im,  about. 


2.  Some  of  the  simple  prepositions  are  amalga- 
mated with  the  personal  and  possessive  pronouns, 
for  which  see  pages  41,  45. 

3.  Besides  the  simple  prepositions,  there  are  in 
Irish  a  number  of  compound  prepositions.  Each 
of  these  consists  of  a  simple  preposition  followed 
by  a  noun ;  and  in  many  of  them  the  initial  of  the 
noun  is  eclipsed  by  the  influence  of  the  simple 


88  ETYMOLOGY.  [_PAKT  IL 

preposition.     In  some  cases  the  preposition  has 
dropped  out  and  only  the  noun  remains. 

4.  The  following  is  a  list  of  the  most  usual 
compound  prepositions,  with  their  meanings :  — 

Q  b-pia&naipe,  in  presence  of. 

Q  b-pocaip,  with,  along  with. 

Q  b-caoib,  in  regard  to,  concerning. 

a  b-cimóeall :  see  cimceall, 

Q  5-cecmn,  at  the  bead  of,  at  the  end  of,  with  regard  to. 

Q  5-coirme,  against,  for  (in  the  phrase  to  go  for) :  piciD  a 

5-COinne  a  céiíe,  "  they  run  against  each  other:"  bo 

cuaib  pe  a  5-comne  a  acap,  he  went  for  his  father. 
Q  5-coip,  by  the  side  of,  hard  by,  along.     This  is  often  con- 
tracted to  coip:  coip  na  bpigbe,  "beside  the  (river) 

Bride." 
Q  h-aicle,  after :  a  h-aicle  na  laoi&epm,  "  after  that  lay." 
ameaps,  amongst :  piop  ameaps  na  5-coillceaO,  "  down 

amongst  the  woods." 
Q  Idcaip,  in  presence  of. 
Qip  ajaió,  forward,  over  against,  opposite:  bul  aip  ajaib, 

to  go  forward,  to  progress:  aip  agaib  na  saoice,  oppo- 
site (exposed  to)  the  wind. 
Qip  béalaib,  in  front  of,  opposite:  bo  luigbip  bo  §ndc 

a  n-iom&aib  ap  bealaib  a  n-acap,  ".they  used  to  lie. 

customarily,  in  beds  opposite  their  father''  (Children  of 

Lir). 
Qip  bun,  on  foundation. 
Qip  ceann,  for  (in  the  phrase  to  go  for);  as  a  bubaipc 

Naipe  le  h-Opban  bul  aip  cenn  Pepsuip,  "  Naisi  said 

to  Ardan  to  go  for  Fergus." 
Oip  peao,  through,  throughout,  during:  aip  peab  blia&nn, 

"  during  a  year." 
Oip  pub,  thoughout,  amongst   aip  pub  na  b-conn,  amongst 

the  waves. 
Oip  5-cul,  behind. 
Oip  pon,  for  the  sake  of,  although. 
0  n-biaio,  after  :  a  n-biaib  a  céile,  after  one  another,  one 

after  another. 
Coip,  contracted  from  a  5-coip. 
Dála,  as  to  :  btíla  blánaibe,  "  as  to  Blanaid." 
O'éip,  after:  b'éip  na  bilinne,  "  after  the  deluge." 
O'ionnpaigib  or  b'ionn Paige,  towards:  gluaipeap  póirhe 

b'lonnpaige  aluin^e,  "he  eroos  forward  towards  his  ship," 


CIIAP.   VI.]  CONJUNCTIONS,  89 

Docum,  towards. 

Do  péip,  according  to. 

5o  nuifte,  unto,  until. 

5o  O-ci,  to,  unto,  as  far  as:  piubail  50  O-ci  an  Oopup, 

walk  to  the  door, 
lomóúp a,  as  to :  lomctipa  phmn,  "as  to  Finn." 
pd  óuaipim,  towards. 
Lúirh  le  or  láirh  pe,  near,  by,  beside:  puiO  Idirh  liom,  sit 

near  me  ;  Idnti  pe  becmnaib  boipce,  "beside  Beanna 

Boirche." 
Op  cionn,  over,  above :  5Pa&ul5  Oia  $t  cionn  50c  uile 

ni&,  "  lore  God  above  all  thing's : "  po  eipig  op  cionn  an 

gaoi,  "  be  rose  over  the  spear." 
1  5-cionn,  the  same  as  a  5-ceann :  i  5-cionn  na  bliaona, 

"  at  the  end  of  the  year." 
Cap  ceann,  besides,  for  the  sake  of,  beyond,  in  preference  to. 
Cap  aip,  backwards  ;  same  as  aip  aip. 
Cap  éip,  after;  the  same   as  t>6ip:  cap  éip  na   Sariina, 

"  after  the  Samhain  (1st  of  November)." 
Cimceall,  about,  around :   ceacc   cimceall  OhiapmaOa, 

"  to  go  around  Dermat." 
Op  coriiaip,  in  presence  of,  before  the  face  of:  Op  coriiaip 

phmn,  "  in  presence  of  Finn." 


III.    CONJUNCTIONS. 

1.  There  are  few  simple  conjunctions  in  the 
Irish  language. 

2.  There  are,  however,  many  compound  con- 
junctions, much  like  the  English  conjunctional 
phrases,  "for  the  reason  that,"  "to  the  end  that," 
&c. 

3.  Generally  speaking,  the  meanings  of  the 
compound  conjunctions  may  be  easily  gathered 
from  the  signification  of  the  words  that  compose 
them ;  but  there  are  a  few  whose  meanings  are 
not  so  plain. 

4.  The  following  is  a  list  of  the  simple  con- 
junctions with  their  meanings,  together  with  those 
of  the  compound  conjunctions  whose  meanings 
are  not  quite  obvious. 


90 


ETYMOLOGY. 


Góc,  but,  except. 

Góc  cecma,  but  however. 

G5UP,  and  ;  often  contracted 
to  a'p,  ap,  and  'p. 

Gip  an  aobap  pip,  where- 
fore. 

Qn,  an  interrogative  parti- 
cle :  an  b-puil  pi  pldn  ?  Is 
sbe  well  ? 

Gp,  the  same  as  the  last, 
only  used  with  the  past 
tense.     See.  p.  58. 

OíoÓ,  although :  it  is  really 
the  third  singular  impera- 
tive of  the  verb  cdim. 

Cf&:  see  5Í0. 

Com,  as. 

Dd,  if:  sometimes  written 
od  mo. 

Do  bpi<5,  because. 

Do  cum  50,  in  order  that. 

Pop,  yet,  moreover. 

5iO  or  gi&eao,  although. 

5o,  that. 

<5onao  aipe  pin,  wherefore. 


[part  n. 


J5up,  that:  formed  of  the 
preceding  and  p  o :  see  p.  58. 

lond,  md:  see  nd. 

lonnup  50,  in  order  that,  so 
that. 

TTld,  if. 

TTId  cd  50,  although  that. 

Tilap,  as:  see  muna. 

Til  una,  if  not,  unless ;  often 
written  mup,  and  even 
(corruptly)  map. 

TTlaipeaÓ,  if  so,  well  then. 

TTlap  pm,  map  po,  in  that 
manner,  in  this  manner: 
thus. 

Nd,  than:  seeiond. 

Nd,  nor,  not. 

No,  or :  often  pronounced  nu 
in  Munster. 

O,  since,  seeing  that,  because. 

O  cdpla,  since,  whereas. 

Oip,  because. 

Sul,  before. 

"Uime  pin,  therefore,  where- 
fore. 


IV.    INTERJECTIONS. 


1.  The  following  is  a  list  of  the  most  common 
interjections.  Besides  these  there  are  many  inter- 
jectional  expressions  somewhat  like  the  English, 
"  0  shame  !"  "  Alack  !  and  well-a-day !"  but  it  is 
not  necessary  to  enumerate  them  : — 


G,  the  sign  of  the  vocative 

case,  usually  translated  O. 
Gp  cpuag,  alas  !  what  pity  ! 
6ipc,  hush!  list ! 
-Papaop,  papaoip,  alas ! 
papaoip     geup,     alas!    O 

sharp  sorrow  ! 
Péac,  see  !  behold ! 
ITlaips,  woe!  O  sad! 


Ill  on  dip  e,  O  shame ! 
-Til on uap,  alas!  woe  is  me! 

TYlo  cpuag :  see  ay  cpuag. 

Oc,  uc,  alas ! 

Oóón,  orucón,  alas!  written 
oódn  orucdn  in  old  writ- 
ings. 

0105611,  alasl 


CHAP.  VII.]  x-ILEFIXES   AND   AFFIXES.  91 


CHAPTER    VII. 

PREFIXES  AND  AFFIXES. 

1.  There  are  in  Irish,  as  in  other  languages, 
prefixes  and  affixes,  which  modify  the  meanings  of 
words. 


I.    PREFIXES. 

1.  The  following  is  a  list  of  the  principal  pre- 
fixes with  their  meanings  :  it  will  be  observed  that 
many  of  them  have  a  double  form,  which  arises 
from  conformity  to  the  rule  caol  le  caol  &c. 

2.  Most  of  these  are  inseparable  particles ;  but 
a  few  are  also  employed  independently  as  separate 
words. 

Gip  or  eir,  back  or  again,  like  English  re :  as  ioc,  pay- 
ment; aipioc,  repayment,  restitution:  eip^e,  rising;  eipeip^e 
resurrection. 

Qrh  ormrh,  a  negative  particle,  like  English  im:  as  péió, 
open,  clear  ;  airhpéiD,  difficult,  rough. 

On,  an  intensitive  particle :  as  luacgóipeac,  joyful ;  as  cm- 
luacsdipeac,  overjoyed. 

On  or  am,  a  negative  particle,  like  English  iin :  as  cpdc 
time;  cmcpáó,  untimely:  mian,  desire;  aimtnan,  evil  de- 
sire. 

Oc,  a  reiterative,  like  English  re:  as  páó,  a  saying  ;  atpdt), 
a  repetition. 

(Xt  has  sometimes  the  meaning  of  English  dis  in  dismantle  : 
as  cum  a,  a  form;  accumaÓ,  to  deform,  to  destroy  ;  piogaD, 
to  crown  or  elect  a  king  ;  aicpiogaÓ,  to  dethrone. 

ban,  feminine  (from  bean,  a  woman)  ;  as  eaclac,  a  mes- 
senger ;  ban-eaclac  or  bam-eaclac,  a  female  messenger. 

bic  or  bioc,  lasting,  constant:  as  beó,  living;  bicbeó, 
everlasting. 


92  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART    II. 

Corn,  equal :  English  co  or  con :  as  aimpeap,  time  ;  corn- 
aim  peapac,  contemporary. 

Deag,  bei<5,  good :  as  blap,  taste ;  beasblap,  good  01 
pleasant  taste. 

Di,  bio,  a  negative,  like  English  dis:  as  céilli&e,  wise  ;  t)i- 
céillioe,  foolish:  cecmn,  ahead;  oíceannaÓ,  to  behead. 

Opoó.bpoió,  bad  or  evil:  as  obaip,  a  work;  opoc-obaip 
an  evil  work. 

Oo  and  po  are  opposites,  as  are  also  often  the  letters  band  p. 
Do  denotes  difficulty,  or  ill,  or  the  absence  of  some  good  or  posi- 
tive quality:  as  paicpeanae  or  popaicpeanac,  visible;  bo- 
paicpeanac,  invisible:  Ooláp,  tribulation;  póldp,  comfort: 
Oonap,  ill  luck;  ponap,  good  luck:  bo-&éunca,  hard  to  be 
done;  po-Oéunca,  easy  to  be  done:  oubaó,  sad;  pubac, 
merry. 

Ga,  a  negative,  often  causing  eclipsis :  as  Oamgecm,  strong ; 
éaOaingean,  weak :  cóip,  just;  éascóip,  injustice:  cpom, 
heavy;  éaocpom,  light. 

eap,  a  negative  :  as  onóip,  honour  ;  eaponóip,  dishonour : 
plan,  healthful ;  eapldn,  sick:  caipoeap,  friendship;  eay- 
caipOeap,  enmity. 

po,  under:  as  buine,  a  man  ;  po&uine,  an  wider-man,  a 
common  man,  a  servant. 

Ppió,  against,  back,  contra  :  as  buille,  a  stroke ;  ppirjbuil- 
le,  a  back  stroke :  bac,  a  hook ;  ppiocbac,  a  back-hook,  a  barb. 

11,  íol,  many:  as  íomao,  much;  ill  omab,  sundry,  various: 
bac,  a  colour  ;  íoloacac,  many  coloured:  paobap,  an  edge  ; 
íolpaobaip,  many-edged  weapons. 

In,  ion,  fit:  as  oéunca,  done;  mbéunca,  fit  to  be  done: 
pai&ce,  said  ;  íonpai&ce,  fit  to  be  said. 

Lot),  full,  used  as  an  intensitive:  as  ai&béil,  vast ;  Idnaib- 
béil,  awfully  vast. 

Learj,  half:  as  uaip,  an  hour;  leacuaip,  half  an  hour. 
This  word  is  also  used  to  denote  one  of  a  pair:  thus  pull,  an 
eye;  leaó-púil  (literally  half  an  eye),  one  of  two  eyes.  See 
"  Idiom,  No.  13." 

1TIÍ,  mi o,  a  negative:  as  meap,  respect;  mirheap,  disres- 
pect: córhaiple,  advice ;  miocorhai pie,  evil  advice. 

Nearh,  neirh,  a  negative  :  as  coimpigce,  comprehensible  ; 
n  earn  conn  pi  gee,  incomprehensible:  nib,  a  thing;  neirh- 
niD,  nothing. 

"Reurh.  before,  like  English  pre :  as  pai&ce,  said;  peurh 
pa1,  free,  aforesaid. 

T?o,  an  intensitive  particle:  as  mop,  great ;pó-rhóp,  very 
great. 


CHAP.  YII.]        PREFIXES    AND    AFFIXES.  93 

Sdp,  an  intensitive  particle:  as  maic,  good;  ptíp-rhaic, 
very  good. 

So,  poi,  the  opposite  to  bo,  denotes  apt,  easy,  good : 
as  beapbca,  proved;  poibeapbca,  easily  proved. 

"Up  or iiip,  an  intensitive  particle:  as  ipeal,  low;  tJipipeal, 
very  low,  humble,  mean,  vile. 

II.    AFFIXES  OE  TERMINATIONS.* 

1.  The  following  is  a  list  of  the  principal  affixes 
or  terminations,  with  their  meanings ;  but  it  does 
not  include  inflectional  terminations,  which  are  all 
given  in  connection  with  declensions  and  con- 
jugations. 

Gc,  when  it  is  the  termination  of  an  adjective,  means  full 
of,  abounding  in,  like  the  English  y  and  ous,  with  the  former 
of  which  it  seems  cognate;  as  bpmgecm,  the  black-thorn ; 
frpaigecmac,  abounding  in  black-thorn:  bpioxap,  a  word ; 
bpiacpac,  wordy,  talkative. 

Gc,  as  the  termination  of  a  noun,  generally  denotes  a  per- 
sonal agent;  as  cúriiacb,  power:  cbrhacbac,  a  mighty  per- 
son :  Connaccac,  a  native  of  Connaught. 

Gcc,  an  abstract  termination,  like  the  English  ness  and  ty 
(in probity)  :  as  capccmac,  charitable ;  captcmacc,  charity: 
móp  and  mópba,  great;  mopbacc,  greatness. 

Gibe,uibe,  or  ibe,  a  personal  termination,  denoting  adoer; 
as  cop,  a  foot;  coipibe,  a  walker :  ciomtín,  drive;  ciomdn- 
aibe,  a  driver. 

Gipe  oripe,  a  personal  termination,  denoting  an  agent  or 
doer;  aslopg,  a  track;  lopgcnpe,  a  tracker:  cealg,  guile; 
ceal^aipe,  a  deceiver. 

Grhail  has  the  same  meaning  as  the  English  like  and  ly:  as 
plaic,  a  prince ;  plaicearhoil,  princely. 

Gn,  a  diminutive  termination,  but  it  has  now  nearly  lost  its 
diminutive  sense  ;  as  loc  a  lake  ;  loócm,  a  small  lake. 

Gp  or  ea~p,  and  sometimes  the  letter  p  alone,  a  termination 
denoting  abstract  quality,  like  ace  ;  as  aoibmn,  delightful ; 


*  For  a  full  account  of  these  terminations  see  the  author's 
"Origin  and  History  of  Irish  Names  of  Places."  Second 
series,  Chaps.  I.  and  II. 


94  ETYMOLOGY.  [PART   II. 

aoibneap,  delightfulness  or  delight:  ceann,  a  head ;  cean- 
nap,  headship,  authority. 

bhap  and  bpe  have  a  collective  or  cumulative  sense;  as 
buille,  a  leaf  ;  builleabap,  foliage:  baip,  an  oak;  baipbpe, 
a  place  of  oaks. 

Chap  has  a  collective  sense  like  the  last ;  as  beomn,  a  peak 
or  gable;  becmncap,  abounding  in  peaks  or  gables. 

De,  an  ancient  adjectival  termination,  has  much  the  same 
meaning  as  the  English  fid  and  ly  (in  manly).  In  the 
modern  language  it  is  varied  to  the  forms  ba,  Oa,  and  ca ;  as 
mop,  great;  mópoa,  majestic:  peap,  a  man;  peapóa, 
manly:  mile,  a  champion;  mileaOca,  champion-hke, 
knightly. 

t5  denotes  abstract  quality,  like  ctóc ;  as  pmn,  fair  or 
white;  pinne,  fairness :  bos,  soft;  buise,  softness. 

In,  a  diminutive  termination.  This  may  be  said  to  be  the 
only  diminutive  that  still  retains  its  full  force  in  the  living 
language ;  and  it  is  much  used  in  Ireland  even  where  Irish  is 
not  spoken,  bócap,  a  road;  bócaipín  (bohcreen),  a  little 
road :  crusk,  a  pitcher ;  cruiskeen,  a  little  pitcher. 

Lao,  nac,  pac,  cac,  cpaó,  have  all  the  same  meaning  as  aó, 
namely,  full  of,  abounding  in  ;  as  bpip,  break ;  bpipleac,  a 
breach,  a  complete  defeat:  muc,  a  pig;  muclac,  a  piggery: 
luacaip,  rushes;  luacapnac,  a  rushy  place:  bos,  a  bog  or 
soft  place;  bo5pac,  a  place  full  of  bogs:  colli,  a  wood ; 
coillceac,  a  woody  place.  These  seem  to  be  cognate  with  the 
terminations  in  the  English  words  poult-ry,  varie-ty,  &c. 

lTlhap  means  abounding  in,  like  the  English  ful  and  ly; 
as  bpi5,  power ;  bpiogrhap,  powerful. 

O5,  a  diminutive  termination;  as  ciap,  black;  ciapOg,  a 
black  little  animal  (a  clock) :  gabal,  a  fork;  gabalós,  a  little 
fork. 

Oip,  or  bóip,  or  cóip,  denotes  an  agent  or  doer,  the  same 
as  the  English  er  in  reaper;  as  buail,  strike;  buailceóip,  a 
thresher:  coinneal,  a  candle;  cownleóip,  a  candlestick: 
ppeal,  a  scythe  ;  ppealabóip,  a  mower. 

Re  has  a  collective  signification,  like  bap  ;  as  beul,  the 
mouth ;  bélpe,  language,  speech. 

Seac  is  used  as  a  sort  of  feminine  termination  ;  as  gall, 
an  Englishman ;  gaillpeac,  an  Englishwoman:  ómpeac,  a 
female  fool  (from  an  old  root  6n,  whence  the  old  word  ón- 
mic,  a  fool,  the  equivalent  of  the  modern  amabdn). 

Gaó  and  cpaó :  see  lac. 


CHAP.   I.]  FOTJNS.  95 


PAKT    III. 

SYNTAX.* 


CHAPTEE    I. 

NOUNS. 

1.  When  two  nouns  come  together  signifying 
different  things,  the  second  one  is  in  the  genitive 
case ;  as  5UÓ  ^aóaip,  the  voice  of  a  hound ; 
1  b-plaiciop  Gpeann,  "in  the  sovereignty  of 
Erin  ;"  bdpp  na  h-inp e,  the  top  of  the  island. 

The  noun  in  the  genitive  always  follows  the  noun  that 
governs  it. 

2.  When  the  genitive  noun  is  singular  mascu- 
line, its  initial  is  aspirated  if  the  article  is  used  ; 
as  mac  an  pin,  the  son  of  the  man.  (See  pages 
17,  18,  for  this  rule  and  its  exceptions). 

3.  When  the  article  is  not  used  with  the 
governed  noun  in  the  singular  number,  the  initial 
of  the  latter  is  generally  not  aspirated  (except  in 
the  case  mentioned  in  next  Rule) ;  as  Con  all 
1  5-cnocaib  bdip,  "Conall  in  the  forms  of  death;" 
a  n-bóldp  bnoibe  a'p  peine,  "in  the  sorrow  0/ 
bondage  aiLdiofpain" 

*  Several  of  the  rules  of  Syntax  have  been  unavoidably 
anticipated  in  Orthography  and  Etymology,  as  they  are  in 
every  Irish  Grammar.  These  rules  will  be  referred  to  in 
their  proper  places  in  this  Syntax,  or  repeated  when  thought 
neces8ary. 


96  SYNTAX.  [PAET    TTT. 

4.  When  the  noun  in  the  genitive  is  a  proper 
name,  its  initial  is  generally  aspirated,  even 
though  the  article  is  not  used;  as  pliocc  ^haoióil, 
"  the  race  of  Gaodhal ;"  ctoióeam  mhanannam, 
''the  sword  of  Manannan." 

Exception : — In  this  case,  b  and  c  often  resist  aspiration 
(p.  34) ;  as  eipe  mgecm  Oealbaoic,  "  Eire,  the  daughter  of 
Dealbhaoth." 

5.  If  the  governed  noun  be  in  the  genitive 
plural,  its  initial  is  eclipsed  with  the  article, 
(for  which  seepage  18);  and  the  initialis  generally 
aspirated,  if  the  article  is  not  used ;  as  Dampen 
mac  n-lhpneac,  "  the  fortress  of  [the]  sons  of 
Usna;"  buióecm  cupaó,  "  acompany  of  knights;" 
biap  ban,  "two  women"  (or  rather  "a  pair  of 
women"). 

Even  in  the  absence  of  the  article  however,  an  eclipsis 
sometimes  occurs;  as  naoi  naonbap  bo  bi  as  ceacc 
b'iappaib  cíopa  asupcariab-peap  n-6ipionn,  "nine times 
nine  persons  who  were  comiDg  to  demand  the  taxes  and 
tributes  of  the  men  of  Erin." 

Sometimes  also,  in  the  absence  of  the  article,  the  noun  in 
the  genitive  plural  is  neither  aspirated  nor  eclipsed. 

6.  When  two  nouns  come  together  signifying 
the  same  thing  (or  in  apposition),  they  generally 
agree  in  case;  as  "Nuaba  Gipgioblam  mac 
Gaccaig  mic  Gabaplaim,  "  Nuadha  Silver-hand, 
son  of  Eachtach,  son  of  Eadarlamh ;"  na  b-qii 
b-pinneamna,  mac  Gocaió,  "of  the  three  Fin- 
navnas,  sons  of  Eochad." 

Here,  in  the  first  example,  Nuaoa  is  nominative,  and  so  is 
mac,  which  is  in  apposition  to  it ;  Gaccaij  is  genitive,  and 
so  is  the  next  word,  mic,  which  is  in  apposition  to  it.  In 
the  second  example,  pmnearrma  is  in  the  genitive  (plural), 
and  mac  also,  in  opposition  to  it,  is  in  the  genitive  (plural). 

For  exceptions  to  this  Eule,  see  "  Idioms,"  No.  33,  p.  129. 
See  also  next  rule. 

7.  The  last  rule  is  not  always  observed: 
departures  from  it  are  sometimes  found,  even  in 
good  Irish  writings;  as,  prnnmbebuibe  ónbamap 


cnAP.  i.J  noun's.  97 

bióeabap  lllhdipe,  bean  Sheagam  an  pígeabópa, 
"  yellow  gold  rings  as  used- to-be  on  Mary,  wife  of 
John  (the  son  of)  the  weaver  ;"  camic  pi$  Chian- 
puióeluacpa  b'piopa  coihóalca,  eaóon,Cian  mac 
Oiliolla,  "the  King  of  Kerry-Luachra  came  to 
visit  his  foster-son,  that  is,  Cian,  the  son  of 
Oilioll :  bo  cpiall (Ojcap)  a  5-coinne  ITiheapo-aig 
lhipe,  an  cpéan  leorhan  "  Oscar  went  to  meet 
the  furious  Meargach,  the  strong  lion." 

The  first  example  exhibits  a  disagreement  in  case  between 
lYIhdipe  and  bean,  which  are  in  apposition,  tbe  former  being 
dative  (after  op),  the  latter  nominative  (its  dative  would  be 
mnaoi,  p.  29).  In  the  second  example  coriioalca  is  geni- 
tive (after  the  infinitive,  Eule  15,  p.  112),  and  Cicm,  in  ap- 
position to  it,  is  nominative  (its  genitive  would  be  Cém).  In 
the  last  example  lilheap0'ai<5  is  genitive,  and  leorhan,  in 
apposition  to  it,  is  nominative.  This  last  example  however, 
seemg  properly  to  belong  to  a  class  of  exceptions  to  Rule  7 
which  are  explained  further  on  ("Idioms  :"  No.  33,  page  129). 

8.  A  noun  used  adjectively  in  English  is  com- 
monly expressed  in  Irish  by  a  genitive  case ;  as 
English,  "a  gold  ring,"  Irish,  pdinne  óip,  a  ring 
of  gold.  This  form  of  expression  is  very  common 
in  Irish;  as  peap  bilge,  a  lawyer ;  literally  "  a 
man  of  law." 

9.  Collective  nouns  are  singular  in  form,  and  as 
such  they  take  the  singular  form  of  the  article 
(when  the  article  is  used) ;  but  they  are  plural  in 
signification,  and  as  such  they  generally  take  ad- 
jectives and  pronouns  in  the  plural  number,  and 
also  verbs  in  the  plural,  when,  in  accordance  with 
Par.  9,  p.  50,  the  plural  form  of  the  verb  is 
used;  as,  noccuib  an  puipeann  pm,  "  that  com- 
pany disclose  ;"  cangabap  an  buibean  cupab 
pm  bo  lácaip  phmn,  agup  bo  beannuig  piab 
bo,  ' '  that  company  of  knights  came  to  the  presence 
of  Finn,  and  they  saluted  him." 

The  personal  nouns  from  tnap  to  Oeicneabap,  mentioned 
at  page  39,  follow  this  rule:  as  00  baoap  an  tnap  pm  50 
h-impeapnac,  "that  pair  were  at  strife." 


98  syntax.  [part  in. 

10.  Nouns  denoting  a  part  commonly  take  00 
with  the  dative  of  the  nouns  (or  pronouns) 
of  which  they  form  a  part ;  as  ^aóap  b'dp 
n^aóapaib,  "  a  hound  of  our  hounds;"  aon  caop 
biob,  "one  berry  of  them;"  50c  buine  be'n 
pobul,  "  each  person  of  the  people." 

11.  The  personal  nouns  from  biap  to  beicneabap 
inclusive  (p.  39,)  and  also  ceópa,  three,  generally 
govern  nouns  in  the  genitive  plural;  as  01  ap 
ban,  "two  (of)  women;"  a  ópiúp  mac  agup  a 
o-cpiup  ban,  "  his  three  sons  and  their  three 
wives;"  ceópa  ban,  "three  women;"  naonbap 
caoipeac,  "  nine  chieftains." 

But  they  sometimes  take  be  with  the  dative  as  in  last 
rule;  as  naoi  naonbap  00  rhaopaib  na  b-pómopaó, 
"nine  times  nine  of  the  stewards  of  the  Fomorians:"  mo 
Dip  mac,  mo  Dip  O'peapaib,  "my  two  sons,  my  two  men." 


CHAPTEE    II. 

THE   ARTICLE   AND  NOUN. 

1.  The  article  agrees  with  its  noun  in  number, 
gender,  and  case ;  as  an  peap,  the  man ;  na  cipce, 
of  the  hen;  na  ba,  the  cows. 

2.  For  the  influence  of  the  article  on  the  noun,  see  p.  17. 

3.  When  one  noun  governs  another  in  the  geni- 
tive, the  article  can  be  used  only  with  the  latter. 
Thus,  in  English  we  can  say  "  the  age  of  the 
world"  (using  the  definite  article  with  each  noun) ; 
but  in  Irish,  the  corresponding  expression  is,  aoip 
an  boihain,  not,  an  aoip  an  boiiiain. 

Exception  : — When  a  demonstrative  pronoun  follows  the 
governing  noun,  or  when  the  two  nouns  come  together  as  a 
compound  word,  the  governing  noun  may  take  the  article ; 
aa  an  c-oioe  mijince,  the  teacher;  má  bo  bein  ct3  an 
0ipeat>  pm  tvCiinn  'pQT1  1°  po  na  n-Oeóp,  "  if  thou  givest 


CHAP.  II.]    THE  ARTICLE  AND  NOUN.  99 

so  much  to  us  in  this  day  of  tears."  Here  the  article  is  used 
before  both  16  and  beóp.  Can^abap  apíp  i  n-eipmn  an 
pliocc  ro  Shimeon  bhpic,  "  these  descendants  of  Simon 
Brec  came  again  into  Erin:"  here  the  article  is  used  before 
rliocc,  the  governing  noun. 

4.  When  a  possessive  pronoun  is  used  with  the 
genitive  noun,  the  article  cannot  be  used  with 
either;  thus,  "  the  house  of  my  father"  is  ceac 
m'acap,  not  an  ceac  m'aéap. 

The  peculiarity  noticed  in  the  last  two  rules  exists  also  in 
English  when  the  possessive  case  is  used,  i.e.,  the  article  can 
be  used  only  with  the  possessive  noun  ;  as  the  world's  age  ; 
my  father's  house. 

5.  When  a  demonstrative  pronoun  is  used  with 
a  noun,  the  article  is  also  used ;  as  an  peap  pin, 
that  man,  literally  "the  man  that;"  na  mná  ub, 
yonder  women  :  literally  "  the  women  yonder." 

6.  The  article  is  used  before  the  names  of  some 
countries  and  cities,  where  the  definite  article 
would  not  be  used  in  English  ;  as  TTIoenan,  abb 
Cacpac  puppa  ípm  ppamc,  béu^,  "Moenan, 
abbot  of  Caher  Fursa,  in  (the)  France,  died ;" 
Cpuaca  na  h-Gipeann,  "the  stacks  of  (the) 
Erin ;"  cuaipceapc  na  h-Gpia,  "  the  north  of  (the) 
Asia."  There  is  in  Irish  also  a  form  of  phrase 
corresponding  to  the  English  "the  mighty 
Hector;"  as  an  c-Opcap  dg,  "the  noble  Oscar." 

7.  When  an  adjective  is  predicated  of  a  noun  by 
the  verb  lp  (in  any  of  its  forms),  the  article  is 
used  with  the  noun  (but  in  the  corresponding  ex- 
pression in  English  the  definite  article  would  not 
be  used) ;  as  íp  inaic  an  peap  6,  he  is  a  good  man : 
literally  "  he  is  the  good  man." 

9.  The  Irish  article  is  used  before  abstract 
nouns  much  more  commonly  than  the  English 
definite  article ;  as  an  c-ocpup,  the  hunger ; 
cpí  nib  bo  cim : — an  peacab,  an  bap,  a'p  an 
pian,  "three  things  I  see,  the  sin,  the  death,  and 
the  pain." 


100  SYNTAX.  [PART   III. 


CHAPTER    III. 

THE  ADJECTIVE  AND  NOUN., 

1.  Adjectives  denoting  fulness  or  a  part  of  any- 
thing may  take  either  the  dative  after  oe  or  the 
genitive;  as  (dative  after  oe) : — íOip  óá  bapaile 
lán  Oe  leann,  "  between  two  barrels  full  of  ale  ;" 
cd  mé  lán  Oo  ndipe,  "I  am  full  of  shame;" 
mopdn  O'uaiptib,  "  many  of  nobles  :"  (genitive) : — 
Idn  a  óuipn,  "  the  full  of  his  fist ;"  an  paib  mópdn 
aip^iO  ai^e,  "had  he  much  of  money?"  cpaob 
Opaoigm  a^up  a  Idn  dipneaó  uippe,  "  a  branch 
of  blackthorn  and  its  full  of  sloes  on  it." 

2.  The  adjective  in  the  comparative  degree 
takes  nd  (or  md  or  íond)  before  the  noun  which 
follows  it ;  as  íp  binne  a  ceól  nd  Ion  'fná  pmól, 
"  sweeter  is  her  voice  (music)  than  the  blackbird 
and  than  the  thrush." 

Exception: — If  the  adjective  in  the  comparative  degree 
has  t>e  ("  of  it ")  after  it  (see  Idiom  39,  p.  132),  then  nd  is  not 
used ;  as  nac  bu  peippOe  óóib  é,  "that  they  would  be  none 
the  better  of  it." 


AGREEMENT   AND   COLLOCATION   OP   THE 
ADJECTIVE  AND  NOUN. 

First  Case  :  When  the  adjective  is  joined  im- 
mediately with  the  noun. 

When  the  adjective  is  joined  immediately  with  the 

noun  as    a    qualifying  or    limiting    term   (as  in    the 

English  "  a  high  tower"),  in  this  case  the    following 

ten  rules  apply. 

1.  The  natural  position  of  the  adjective  is  after 

its  noun  ;  as  cablac  móp,  "  a  great  fleet." 

The  chief  exceptions  to  this  are  stated  in  the  next  two 
rules. 


CHAP.    III.]       THE   ADJECTIVE   AND    NOUN.  101 

2.  Monosyllabic  adjectives  are  often  placed 
before  their  nouns ;  as  caol-peap,  "  slender  man ;" 
mop  paippse,  "  great  sea  ;"  oub-cappai5, 
"  black  rock." 

3.  This  is  especially  the  case  with  the  following 
adjectives,  some  of  which  are  hardly  ever  used 
after  their  nouns  :  t>ea§,  good  ;  opoc,  evil ;  piop, 
true  ;  nuaó,  new ;  pean,  old  ;  cuac,  left-handed. 

Numeral  adjectives  form  another  exception,  for  which  see 
next  chapter. 

4.  When  a  name  consists  of  two  words,  the 
adjective  comes  between  them;  as  Sliab  aóbal- 
móp  Luacpa,  "  the  tremendous-large  Slieve 
Lougher;"  Gamum  itiín  áluinn  TTIaca,  "the 
smooth  beautiful  Eman  Macha." 

5.  When  the  adjective  follows  its  noun,  it 
agrees  with  it  in  gender,  number,  and  case ;  as 
peap  maic,  a  good  man;  pgéul  na  mná*  moipe, 
''the  story  of  the  large  woman"  (gen.  sing, 
fern.);  ap  an  aióbéip  lonsancaig,  "  on  the 
wonderful  abyss"  (dat.  sing.  fern.). 

6.  When  the  adjective  follows  its  noun,  the 
initial  of  the  adjective  is  aspirated  under  the  cir- 
cumstances already  stated  in  Par.  6,  page  10;  or 
eclipsed  in  the  circumstance  stated  in  Par.  3, 
page  34. 

7.  When  two  or  more  nouns  are  joined  together, 
and  are  followed  by  an  adjective  which  qualifies  or 
limits  them,  all  and  each,  the  adjective  agrees 
with  the  last :  in  other  words,  it  is  the  last  noun 
only  that  influences  the  adjective  both  in  gram- 
matical inflection,  and  in  initial  change  ;  as  bean 
a^up  peap  male,  a  good  woman  and  man;  peap 
agup  bean  itiaic,  a  good  man  and  woman. 

8.  When  the  adjective  precedes  the  noun,  as  in 
Pules  2  and  3,  above,  it  does  not  agree  with 
the  noun,  i.e.,  it  is  not  influenced  by  the  noun, 


102  SYNTAX.  [PARI   III. 

either  as  to  inflection,  or  as  to  initial  change  ;  in 
other  words,  the  simple  form  of  the  adjective  is 
used,  whatever  be  the  number,  gender,  or  case  of 
the  noun;  as  móp  uaiple,  "great  nobles;"  bo 
rhóp  uaiplib,  "  to  [the]  great  nobles;  "  bdn  cnoic 
6ipecmn,  "the  fair  hills  of  Erin;"  luac  bapca, 
swift  barks;  piop  p^eul,  "a  true  story;"  piop 
p^eulca,  "  true  stories." 

9.  When  the  adjective  precedes  the  noun,  the 
adjective  and  the  noun  are  sometimes  regarded  as 
one  compound  word ;  and  the  initial  of  the 
noun  is  aspirated  (in  accordance  with  Par.  4, 
page  10)  :  also  the  vowel  of  the  adjective  is 
often  modified  by  the  rule  caol  le  caol  &c. ;  as 
t)eipt>pe  an  Ouib-pleibe,  "Deirdre  of  Dubh- 
Shliabh  ;  "  015 -bean,  a  young  woman. 

10.  When  the  adjective  precedes  the  noun,  the 
initial  of  the  adjective  is  subject  to  the  same 
changes  as  if  the  adjective  and  the  noun  formed 
one  word,  i.e.,  one  noun;  as  ^dipe  na  n-615-peap, 
"the  laughter  of  the  young  men;"  an  c-dpb- 
ollarh  pm,  "  that  chief  professor ;"  an  c-pean- 
bean  bocc,  "  the  poor  old  woman." 


Second  Case  :  When  the  adjective  is  connected 
with  the  noun  by  a  verb. 

When  the  adjective,  instead  of  being  joined  imme- 
diately with  the  noun,  is  predicated  of,  or  ascribed  to, 
the  noun  by  a  verb  of  any  kind  (as  in  the  English, 
"the  man  is  tall,"  "he  considered  the  man  tall,"  "he 
made  the  knife  sharp,"  "  the  roads  were  made  straight"), 
in  this  case,  the  following  three  rules  apply. 

1.  When  an  adjective  is  predicated  of  a  noun 
by  the  verb  cd,  it  follows  the  noun,  the  order 
being : — verb,  noun,  adjective ;  as  cd  an  Id  bpedg, 
the  day  is  fine. 

2.  When  an  adjective  is  predicated  of  a  noun 


CHAP.  III.]         THE  ADJECTIVE  AND  NOUN.  103 

by  the  verb  ip,  it  precedes  the  noun,  the  order' 
being  : — verb,  adjective,  noun ;  as  íp  bpedg  an 
Id  é,  it  is  a  fine  day. 

3.  When  an  adjective  is  ascribed  to  a  noun  by 
a  verb  of  any  kind,  the  adjective  does  not  agree 
with  the  noun,  i.e.,  the  adjective  is  not  influenced 
by  it,  either  initially  or  inflectionally ;  in  other 
words,  the  simple  form  of  the  adjective,  without 
inflection,  is  used,  whatever  be  the  number  or 
gender  of  the  noun  ;  and  the  initial  of  the  adjec- 
tive is  neither  aspirated  nor  eclipsed  (unless  under 
the  influence  of  some  other  word),  as  ir  aibinn  bo 
cuain  acap  bo  calapuipe  acap  bo  masaminpcoc- 
aca  caerhdilne,  "  delightful  are  thy  harbours, 
and  thy  bays,  and  thy  flowery  lovely  plains  :" 
a^up  cpoicne  péiéeaó  ap  na  n-baóú$aó  beap^, 
"  and  rams'  skins  dyed  red." — (Exodus,  xxv.  5). 

The  first  example  (from  the  story  of  the  Children  of  Usna), 
exhibits  both  an  agreement  according  to  Rule  5,  page  101,  and 
a  disagreement  according  to  the  present  rule.  For  the  three 
nouns  are  plural,  and  the  two  last  adjectives  which  qualify 
them  directly  are  in  the  plural  form,  while  the  first  adjective 
aibmn  (modern  aoibinn)  which  is  asserted  of  them  by  ip,  is 
in  its  simple  form  (the  plural  would  be  aibmne  or  aibne). 
In  the  second  example  cpoicne  is  plural,  while  beaps  is 
singular  (plural  beapsa). 

Observe  the  difference  in  meaning  in  the  following,  accord- 
ing to  agreement  or  disagreement: — Do  pi§ne  pé  na  bpaic 
Slapa ;  bo  pi$ne  pé  na  bpaic  glap :  in  the  first  the  adjec- 
tive agrees  with  the  noun,  (both  being  plural),  showing  that 
it  qualifies  it  directly  (Rule  5,  p.  101 )  and  that  the  meaning  is, 
"  he  made  the  green  mantles ;"  in  the  second  there  is  no 
agreement,  (the  adjective  being  singular  and  the  noun  plural), 
showing  that  the  adjective  is  connected  with  the  noun  by 
the  verb  (Rule  3  above),  and  that  the  meaning  is,  "  he 
made  the  mantles  green." 


104  SYNTAX.  [PAIIT    III. 


CHAPTEE  IV. 

NUMERAL   ADJECTIVES. 

1.  A  numeral  adjective,  whether  cardinal  or 
ordinal,  when  it  consists  of  one  word,  goes  before 
its  noun ;  as  cpi  pip,  three  men  ;  pan  bap  a  h-cuc, 
"  in  the  second  place." 

.2  Numeral  adjectives,  both  cardinal  and  ordi- 
nal, from  11  to  19  inclusive,  take  their  nouns 
between  the  simple  numeral  and  béa^;  as  cpi 
capaill  béa^,  thirteen  horses;  an 'cpeap  capall 
béa^,  the  thirteenth  horse. 

3.  Gon,  one;  ód,  two;  céab,  first;  and  cpeap, 
third,  cause  aspiration  ;  as  aon  peap,  one  man ;  6d 
mnaoi,  two  women  ;  an  cpeap  peace,  "  the  third 
occasion." 

4.  The  numerals  peace,  occ,  naoi,  and  beic, 
cause  eclipsis  (except  the  noun  begins  with  p,  in 
which  case  there  is  no  change),  as  peace  m-bliaó- 
na,  " seven  years;"  occ  m-ba,  "  eight  cows;" 
naoi  n-aibne,  "nine  rivers;"  beic  b-pip,  "ten 
men." 

5.  The  numerals  epí,  ceicpe,  CÚ15,  pé,  the  or- 
dinals (except  céaó  and  cpeap :  Rule  3  above), 
and  the  multiples  of  ten,  cause  no  initial  change  ; 
as  ceicpe  ^aóaip,  "four  hounds." 

6.  Gon,  one,  and  all  the  multiples  of  ten,  take 
their  nouns  in  the  singular  number ;  as  aon  Id, 
one  day;  cóab  ceann,  a  hundred  heads  (lit.  "a 
hundred  head,"  just  as  we  say  "a  hundred  head 
of  cattle  " ) ;  cpi  caogab  laoc,  "  three  times  fifty 
heroes  ;"  mile  bean,  "  a  thousand  women." 


CHAP.    V.]"  THE   PRONOUN.  105 

7.  X)á,  two,  takes  both  the  article  and  the  noun 
in  the  singular  number;  and  if  the  noun  be 
feminine,  it  will  be  in  the  dative  form;  as  óá 
peap,  two  men  ;  an  bá  laini,  the  two  hands.  (See 
next  two  rules). 

8.  If  the  noun  following  Oct  be  in  the  genitive, 
it  will  be  in  the  genitive  plural ;  as  Ian  a  óá  lám, 
"  the  full  of  his  two  hands." 

9.  Although  Oct  takes  the  article  and  noun  in 
the  singular,  yet  the  adjectives  and  pronouns 
referring  to  the  noun  will  be  in  the  plural,  and 
the  noun  may  also  take  a  plural  verb ;  as  oo 
gluoipeaOap  an  Oct  épéinn'iíleaó  pin,  "  these  two 
strong  heroes  went;"  po  $ab  a  óá  p^ea<5  cpo- 
paippin^e  cparm-peaiiipa  ap  na  b-pocpu$aó  a 
b-puil  nacnac  neuiie,  "he  took  his  two  wide- 
socketed  thick-handled  spears,  they  having  been 
bathed  in  the  blood  of  serpents."  Here  the  two 
adjectives  and  the  pronoun  referring  to  pleag, 
are  plural. 


CHAPTEE  V. 

THE  PRONOUN. 
I.    PERSONAL   PRONOUNS. 

1.  Personal  pronouns  agree  with  the  nouns 
they  represent,  in  gender,  number,  and  person ; 
as  íp  niaic  an  bean  i,  she  is  a  good  woman;  íp 
maic  an  peap  é,  he  is  a  good  man;  íp  móp  na 
oaome  laO,  they  are  great  men. 

2.  A  personal  pronoun,  or  a  possessive  pronoun, 
which  stands  for  a  sentence  or  part  of  a  sentence,  is 

8 


106  SYNTAX.  [PART  J II. 

third  person  singular  masculine ;  as  t>d  m-béibíp 
pip  Gipeann  an  bap  n-a£aió,  nac  bu  peippbe 
óóib  é,  "if  the  men  of  Erin  were  against  you, 
they  would  not  be  the  better  of  it;'*  (here  the 
pronoun  é  stands  for  the  sentence). 

3.  The  accusative  forms  of  the  personal  pro- 
nouns are  often  used  as  nominatives :  always  with 
ip(see  Rule  18,  p.  113),  and  with  passive  verbs  (see 
Rule  20,  p.  1 1 3) ;  and  sometimes  with  other  verbs ; 
as  map  maic  ria  leaga  pib,  ap  éipíon,  "  'if  ye  are 
the  good  physicians,'  says  he." 


H.    POSSESSIVE   PRONOUNS. 

1.  A  possessive  pronoun  is  never  used  without 
a  noun. 

In  English  there  are  distinct  forms  of  the  possessive  pro- 
nouns which  can  stand  without  nouns  (mine,  thine,  hers,  &c), 
but  there  are  no  forms  corresponding  to  these  in  Irish. 

2.  The  possessive  pronouns  precede  their 
nouns;  as  mo  mdcaip,  my  mother;  a  5-capbab, 
their  chariot. 

3.  The  possessives  mo,  my;  bo,  thy;  and  a, 
his ;  aspirate  the  initials  of  their  nouns ;  as  mo 
ceann,  my  head;  bo  cop,  thy  foot;  a  meup,  his 
finger. 

4.  The  possessive  a,  her,  requires  the  initial  of 
its  noun  in  its  primitive  state  (neither  aspirated 
nor  eclipsed),  and  if  the  initial  be  a  vowel,  it  pre*- 
fixes  h  ;  as  a  mdcaip,  her  mother;  a  h-aóaip,  her 
father. 

5.  The  possessives  ay,  our;  bap,  your;  and 
a,  their ;  eclipse  the  initial  consonants  of  their 
nouns  (except  p,  on  which  they  exert  no  in- 
fluence), and  prefix  n  to  vowels  ;  as  dp  b-cip,  our 
country;  bap  m-ba,  your  cows;  a  n-acaip,  their 
father. 


CHAP.    V.]  THE   PRONOUN.  107 

6.  Possessive  pronouns  amalgamated  with  pre- 
positions (see  p.  45)  have  the  same  influence  over 
the  initials  of  their  nouns,  as  they  have  in  their 
uncompounded  state ;  as  bom  cpoióe,  to  my  heart ; 
óna  b-cíp,  from  their  country. 

7.  The  manner  of  using  the  emphatic  increase 
after  the  possessive  pronouns  has  been  already 
pointed  out  in  Par.  3,  page  45.  For  an  additional 
Rule  of  possessives,  see  Rule  2,  page  105. 


III.    RELATIVE   PRONOUNS. 

1.  The  relative  follows  its  antecedent  and  pra 
cedes  its  verb  ;  as  an  cé  a  puibalpap,  the  person 
who  shall  walk. 

2.  The  relative  aspirates  the  initial  of  its  verb ; 
as  an  laoc  a  rhapb  an  c-acac,  "the  hero  who 
slew  the  giant."  To  this  the  next  rule  is  an  ex- 
ception. 

3.  When  the  relative  a  signifies  "  all  that " 
(see  p.  47)  it  eclipses  the  initial  of  its  verb ;  as  a 
b-puil  ó  ^01^^  bUD  be«V>  "aR  that  is  from 
Galway  southwards;"  oo  péip  a  n-oubpamap, 
"  according  to  what  we  have  said." 

4.  When  the  relative  a  is  governed  by  a  prepo- 
sition, expressed  or  understood,  and  is  followed 
immediately  by  a  verb   to  which   it   is   not  the^j-  /□  \ 
nominative,  the  initial  of  the  verb  (except  p)  is 
eclipsed;  as  a  pé  nió  imoppa  bá  b-cáinic  a  báp 

"  (the  following)  is  the  circumstance,  indeed,  from 
which  came  his  death;"  an  boió  ma  n-icit)ip, 
"the  tent  in  which  they  used  to  eat;"  a  bubaipc 
pionn  50  n-Dion^naó  (píó)  510  bé  nop  a  n-biong- 
naó  t)iapmait>  i,  "  Finn  said  that  he  would  make 
(peace)  in  whatever  manner  Diarmaid  would 
make  it"  (here  the  preposition  ann  is  understood  • 


108  SYNTAX.  [PART   III. 

51Ó  bé  nop  arm  a  n-biongnab  Oiapmaib  i,  what* 
ever  the  manner  in  which  Diarmaid  would  make 
it.)     (See  next  rule). 

5.  If,  in  the  case  stated  in  the  last  rule,  the  verb 
is  in  the  past  tense,  with  the  particle  po  or  00,  the 
initial  of  the  verb  is  not  eclipsed,  but  aspirated 
(Pars.  1  and  4,  p.  58);  asdic  ap  éuicOapat)eap0-, 
"the  place  in  which  fell  Dara  Dearg." 

6.  The  relative  precedes  the  verb  which  governs 
it  in  the  accusative  (as  in  English) ;  as  an  dp  a 
gpaomgim,  the  country  which  I  love. 

7.  As  the  relative  has  no  inflection  for  case,  the 
construction  must  determine  whether  the  relative 
is  the  nominative  to  the  verb  which  follows  it, 
or  is  governed  by  it  in  the  accusative  ;  as  an 
capa  a  gpaouigio  mé,  the  friend  whom  I  love; 
an  capa  a  gpaóuigeap  mé,  the  friend  who  loves 
me. 

8.  The  relative  is  often  omitted  both  in  the 
nominative  and  in  the  accusative  ;  as  oglaoc  bo 
muinncip  "Nín  rinc  péil  camic  uaio  00  bpac  na 
Gipionn,  "  a  youth  of  the  people  of  Nin  Mac  Peil 
(who)  came  from  him  to  view  Erin."  On  leabap 
po  pcpiob  (Cambpenpip)  t>o  cuapapsbail  Gipionn, 
"  the  book  (which)  Cambrensis  wrote  on  the 
history  of  Erin." 

9.  The  relative  a  is  often  disguised  by  combina- 
tion with  other  words  and  particles,  especially 
with  po,  the  mark  of  the  past  tense;  as  an  cíp  Op 
cdinic  me,  "the  country  from  which  I  came" 
(here  óp  =  6  a  po)  ;  pldig  lép  mapbab  not  mile 
biob,  "  a  plague,  by  which  were  killed  nine  thou- 
sand of  them  "  (here  lép  =  le  a  po)  ;  an  cip  bd 
b-cdinic  pé,  the  country  to  which  he  came  (X)á= 
bo  a);  Id  bap  comópab  aonac  le  pig  Gipeann,  "  a 
day  on  which  was  convoked  an  assembly  by  the 
king  of  Erin"  (bap=bo  apo)  ;  ni  bcaj  liompa  ap 


CHAP.  V.]  THE  PRONOUN.  109 

plomneap  pern  map  eipic,  "I  do  not  think  it  little 
what  I  have  named  as  an  eric."  (Gp=a  po,  in 
which  a  means  "  all  that :"  Par.  3,  page  47.) 

IV.    DEMONSTRATIVE   PRONOUNS. 

1.  The  demonstrative  pronouns  follow  their 
nouns  or  pronouns  ;  as  an  peap  pin,  that  man  ; 
cia  h-é  pin  ?  who  is  that  ? 

Exception  : — When  the  verb  if  in  any  of  its  forms  is  under- 
stood ;  as  púb  Toaj)  g-cuit),  "  yonder  (is)  your  meal ;"  po  an 
la,  this  is  the  day. 

2.  If  the  noun  be  followed  by  one  or  more  ad- 
j  ectives,  the  demonstrative  pronoun  comes  last ; 
as  cia  an  peap  ballac  bmnbpiaópac  úo  ?  "  Who 
is  that  freckled  sweet-worded  man  ?" 


V.    INTERROGATIVE  AND  INDEFINITE  PRONOUNS. 

1.  An  interrogative  pronoun  comes  first  in  the  . 
sentence  ;  as  cot  b-puil  mo  leabap  ?  where  is  my 
book  ?  cia  an  laoc  uo  ap  gualamn  gboill  ? 
"  who  is  that  hero  at  the  shoulder  of  Goll  ?" 

This  rule  holds  good  even  when  the  interrogative  is  governed 
by  a  preposition,  i.e.,  the  preposition  follows  the  interrogative 
that  it  governs ;  as  cat)  ap  cu  ?  out  of  what  (place  art)  thou  ? 
50  Oe  map  cá  cú  ?  how  do  you  do  ?  (literally  "  like  to  what 
art  thou?")  cpeut»  pa  aj\  eipgeaoap,  "  what  for  did  ye 
rise  ?" 

2.  When  uile  precedes  its  noun,  it  means  "  every ;" 
when  it  follows  the  noun  it  means  "  all;"  as  plan 
6n  uile  galap,  "  sound  from  every  sickness ;"  00 
bacat)  an  cine  baona  uile  50  h-aon  occap,  "  all 
the  human  race  was  drowned,  all  to  (except)  a 
single  eight." 

There  are  occasional  exceptions  ;  as  opong  ambpiopac 
ip  na  h-mle  pubádcib,  "  people  ignorant  in  all  virtues  "  (in 
this  passage  from  Keating, uile  means  •'  all"  though  it  precedes 
its  noun). 


110  syntax.  [part  in. 

CHAPTEE   VI. 

THE  VERB. 

1.  As  a  general  rule  the  verb  precedes  its  no- 
minative ;  as  bo  gluaip  Pepjup,  "  Fergus  went ;" 
bo  claoióeaó  TTlac  5aPPaiD>  "Mac  Garraidh  was 
defeated."     (See  next  Eule.) 

2.  When  the  nominative  is  a  relative  or  an  in- 
terrogative pronoun,  it  precedes  the  verb ;  and 
sometimes  also  in  poetry,  the  nominative,  even 
though  a  noun,  precedes  the  verb ;  as  an  ce  a 
p mbalpap,  the  person  who  will  walk ;  cpeub  acd 
annpo  ?  what  is  here?  T)eópaióóe  píopa  5cm 
P51Ó  ^an  pop  micmaib  a  b-cip  'p  a  n-búécap, 
"  perpetual  exiles  without  pause  or  rest,  long-for 
their  country  and  their  native-home." 

3.  When  the  verb  is  transitive,  i.e.,  when  it 
governs  the  accusative  (see  Eule  9,  p.  Ill),  the 
usual  order  is  verb,  nominative,  object  ;  as 
boaigel  Concobap  bopac,  "  Conchobhar  addressed 
Borach ;"  bo  lion  ^páinne  an  copn,  "Grainne  filled 
the  goblet." 

4.  But  when  the  accusative  is  a  relative  or  an 
interrogative  pronoun,  the  usual  order  is,  pronoun 
(or  accusative),  verb,  nominative ;  as  an  laoc  a 
conaipc  mé  ané,  the  hero  whom  I  saw  yesterday  ; 
cab  beip  cu  ?  what  sayest  thou  ? 

5.  WTien  the  verb  cá  is  used,  the  usual  order  is, 
verb,  nominative,  predicate;  as  cdib  na  peulca 
po-lonnpac,  the  stars  are  very  bright. 

6.  When  the  verb  íp,  expressed  or  understood, 
is  used,  the  usual  order  is,  verb,  predicate,  nomina- 
tive; as  ba  binne  a  glóp  ná  ceól  na  n-éun,  "her  voice 


CHAP.  VI.  j  THE   VEKB.  Ill 

was  sweeter  than  the  music  of  the  birds :"  ni  paba 
uaic  an  die,  "  not  (is)  far  from  thee  the  place." 

Exception. — If  the  article  is  used  before  the  predicate,  or  if 
the  predicate  is  a  proper  name,  the  order  is,  verb,  subject, 
predicate ;  as  ip  cupa  an  cip  po-aoibinn,  "thou  art  the  de- 
lightful country;"  ip  mé  Cían  macCtímce,  "I  am  Cian, 
the  son  of  Cainte:"  an  cu  pionn  ?  "  art  thou  Finn?" 

7.  The  only  cases  in  which  there  is  agreement 
between  the  verb  and  its  nominative,  are  (1)  when 
the  nominative  and  verb  are  both  third  person 
singular  ;  (2)  when  a  noun  or  pronoun  in  third 
plural  has  a  verb  in  third  plural,  in  accordance 
with  Par.  9,  p.  50. 

It  may  be  doubted  whether  (1)  is  a  genuine  case  of  agree- 
ment ;  and  the  general  absence  of  agreement  between  verb 
and  nominative  is  further  exemplified  in  the  following  rule. 

8.  When  two  or  more  nouns,  whether  singular 
or  plural,  joined  by  a  conjunction,  are  nominatives 
to  one  verb,  the  verb  has  the  third  person  singular 
form;  as  bo  gluaip  bpeap  agup  na  bpaoice 
pómpa,  "  Breas  and  the  druids  went  forward." 

9.  A  transitive  verb  governs  the  noun  or  pro- 
noun which  is  the  object  of  the  action,  in  the  ac- 
cusative case  ;  as  buail  é,  strike  him ;  bo  cuipea- 
bap  Cuaéa  Oe  Oanann  ceó  bpaoibeacca  i  n-a 
b-ciniceall  péin,  "theTuatha  de  Dananns^wi  a 
magical  mist  around  themselves." 

10.  The  initial  of  a  verb  in  the  infinitive  mood 
is  aspirated,  unless  the  aspiration  is  prevented  by 
some  special  influence.  For  such  an  influence  see 
Par.  2,  p.  60. 

11.  The  preposition  le  or  pe  before  the  infini- 
tive active  often  gives  it  a  passive  signification  ; 
as  (leabaip  eile)  acá  pe  b-paicpin  i  n-Gipinn, 
"  (other  books)  which  are  to  be  seen  in  Erin." 

But  in  many  such  constructions  the  preposition  expresses 
purpose,  and  the  signification  is  active;  as  asup  50  m-bit) 
ollarii  pe  bénam  peille  aip  a  céile,  "  and  that  they  are  ready 
to  do  treachery  on  each  other." 


9 


112  SYNTAX.  [PART   III 

12.  The  infinitive,  even  without  the  preposition 
le,  has  often  a  passive  signification;  aspiacpa 
mac  Gilene  cigeapna  TClugóopn  bo  mapbab, 
"Fiachra,  son  of  Ailene,  lord  of  Mourne,  to  be 
slain"  (lit.  "Fiachra,  &c,  to  slay") :  ajup  an  peap 
nac  ciobpab  (an  ciop)  pin  uaib,  appón  bo  buain 
6na  ceann  be,  "  and  the  man  who  would  not  pay 
that  tribute  from  him,  his  nose  to  be  cut  off  from 
his  head." 

13.  One  verb  governs  another  that  follows  it  or 
depends  upon  it  in  the  infinitive  mood ;  as  ba 
m-bab  nac  pacpab  clanna  llloipne  b'iappaió  na 
5-caop  pin,  "if  it  were  so  that  the  Clann  Morna 
had  not  come  to  seek  those  berries." 

The  following  very  important  rule  was  first  enunciated  by 
O'Donovan,  and  is  giveu  here  in  his  own  words  ("  Irish  Gram- 
mar," p.  387.) 

14.  "  When  the  governed  verb  is  one  express- 
ing motion  or  gesture,  which  does  not  govern  the 
accusative,  the  sign  bo  is  never  prefixed ;  as  bubai  p  c 
pé  liom  oul  50  Copcaig,  he  told  me  to  go  to  Cork." 

15.  If  the  noun  which  is  the  object  of  a  transi- 
q             tive  verb  in  the  infinitive  mood  follows  the  verb,  it 

is  in  the  genitive  case ;  as  cangabap  cablac  móp 
'   bo  óéanaih  coguib,   "a  great  fleet  came  to  make 
zvar'"  (nom.  cogab,  war,  gen.  coguib) ;  bo  n'iilleaó 
clomne  Lip,  "  to  kill  the  children  of  Lir." 

16.  A  noun  or  pronoun  which  is  the  object  of  a 
transitive  verb  in  the  infinitive  mood  often  pre- 
cedes the  verb,  and  in  this  case  it  is  (not  in  the 
genitive,  as  in  the  last  rule,  but)  in  the  accusative; 
as,  a<5up  ípeab  bo  gniob,  bá  cuaille  bo  cup  1  b-cal- 
Tiiam  agup  ceann  an  c-pndice  bo  cean^al  ba  50c 
cuaille  biob,  agup  uballbo  cup  aip  ifiullac  cuaille 
aca,  "and  it  is  what  he  used  to  do,  two  poles  to  put 
in  the  earth,  and  the  end  of  a  thread  to  tie  to  each 
pole  of  them,  and  an  apple  to  put  on  the  top  of  a 
pole  of  them." 


CHAP.  VII.]  PREPOSITIONS.  113 

17.  The  active  participle  of  a  transitive  verb 
governs  the  noun  which  is  the  object  of  the  action, 
in  the  genitive  case;  as  05  bpuicneab  an  óip, 
"  smelting  the  gold"  (lit.  "  smelting  of  the  gold") ; 
bo  bi  an  5a0Da^  F°  a5  nitinabpcol,  "  this  Gaodhal 
was  teaching  schools "  (lit.  "  teaching  of  schools"); 
05  coca  lie  na  caiman,  "  digging  the  ground." 

18.  The  verb  lp  in  any  of  its  forms  expressed  or 
understood,  takes  the  accusative  form  of  a  per- 
sonal pronoun  as  its  nominative  ;  as  ip  í  céabpaó 
bpomge  pe  peancup,  "it  is  the  opinion  of  some 
historians;"  lp  mic  pi$  50  pipmneac  iat),  "they 
are  truly  sons  of  a  king ;"  a^up  piappaigeap  an 
pig  cia  h-iab  péin,  ''and  the  king  asks  who  they 
(are)." 

19.  The  verb  lp  is  very  often  omitted,  especially 
in  negative  and  interrogative  sentences,  and  in 
answers  to  questions ;  as  beaca  an  pcapaioe 
pipmne,  "  truth  (is)  the  food  of  the  historian;" 
ceann  "Ohiapmuba  Ui  "Ohuibne  an  ceann  úb, 
11  that  head  (is)  the  head  of  Diarmaid  O'Duibhne  ; " 
cia  cupa?  mipi  lollan,  "  who  (art)  thou?  I  (am) 
Iollan;"  an  piop  pin,  "whether  (is)  that  true? 
ni  mipi,  "  (it  is)  not  I." 

20.  A  verb  in  the  passive  voice  takes  the 
accusative  form  of  a  personal  pronoun  as  its 
nominative;  as  béan cap  é,  it  is  done;  buailceap  lab 
they  are  struck. 


CHAPTEE  VII. 

PREPOSITIONS. 


1.  A  simple  preposition  governs  the  dative  (in- 
cluding the  ablative,  for  which  there  is  no  distinct 


114  SYNTAX.  [PARTm 

inflection) ;  as  édinic  pé  50  Copcaift,  he  came  to 
Cork;  05  coif  an  c-pléibe,  at  the  foot  of  the 
mountain  ;  aipmib  cuio  bo  na  h-ú$bapaib,  "  some 
of  the  authors  reckon."  (See  next  rule  for  excep- 
tion.) 

2.  The  preposition  lbip  generally  governs  the 
accusative  in  the  singular,  and  the  dative  in  the 
plural ;  as  lbip  Copcac  ajup  Luimneac,  between 
Cork  and  Limerick;  lbip  na  coigeabaib,  "  between 
the  provinces." 

3.  The  prepositions  ann,  50,  lap,  pia,  le  orpe,  and 
cap,  take  p  before  an,  the  article,  the  p  being  some- 
times joined  with  the  preposition  and  sometimes 
with  the  article ;  as  annp  an  leabap  or  ann  pan 
leabap,  in  the  book;  leip  an  b-peap,  with  the 
man.     (See  par.  7,  page  17.) 

4.  The  compound  prepositions  govern  their 
nouns  in  the  genitive ;  as  bo  pu^  an  conna  pip 
a  n-ajaib  an  cnuic,  "he  brought  the  tun  with  him 
against  the  hill-"  a  b-piabnuipe  b-peap  n-6ipionn, 
"  in  presence  of  the  men  of  Erin;"  bo  gluaipeabap 
clann  Cuipeann  pompa  b'ionnpuibe  an  caca,  "  the 
children  of  Tuireann  went  forwards  towards  the 
battle." 

The  following  prepositions,  cum,  towards ;  bála,  as  to;  béip, 
after;  íomcupa,  as  to;  meapg  or  anieaps,  amongst;  péip, 
according  to  ;  and  cimcioll,  about,  although  having  the  form 
of  simple  prepositions,  are  in  reality  compound,  and  take  their 
nouns  in  the  genitive.     See  end  of  Par.  3,  p.  88. 

As  a  compound  preposition  consists  of  a  noun  governed  by 
a  simple  preposition,  it  is  in  reality  the  noun-part  of  the 
compound  preposition  that  governs  the  noun  in  the  genitive, 
in  accordance  with  Rule  1,  page  95 :  thus  the  expression 
above,  a  n-agaic-  an  cnuic,  is  literally  "in  the  face  of  the 
hill,"  where  cnuic  is  governed  in  the  genitive  by  ajjdiÓ,  face ; 
and  so  of  the  others. 

5.  The  simple  prepositions,  except  bo,  be,  ^an, 
and  lbip,  generally  cause  eclipsis  in  singular  nouns 
when  the  article  is  used;  as  ó'n  5-cnoc  pm,  "from 


CHAP.  VII.  j  PREPOSITIONS.  115 

that  hill;"  05  an_m-baile  na  h-inpe  fiap,  " at  the 
town  of  the  island  in  the  west."  (See  pages 
17,  18.) 

6.  The  simple  prepositions  generally  cause  aspi- 
ration when  the  article  is  not  expressed;  as  dip 
bapp  an  cpoinn,  "  on  the  top  of  the  tree;"  6 
rhúpaib  na  Geampac,  "from  the  ramparts  of 
Tara." 

Exception  1 :  a  or  i,  lap,  and  50  (when  it  means  "  with") 
cause  eclipsis  without  the  article;  as  a  m-baile  aca  cliac, 
in  Baile-atha-cliath  (Dublin);  lap  n-t)ilinn,  "after  the 
deluge." 

Exception  2 :  C15.  le,  and  sometimes  50,  cause  no  change  in 
the  initial,  and  55cm  may  either  aspirate  or  not;  as  plan  le 
lTlaij,  "farewell  to  (the  river)  Maigue;"  o'n  c-Sionumn 
poip  50  pmppge,  "from  the  Shannon  east  to  the  sea." 

7.  When  a  simple  preposition  ending  in  a  vowel 
comes  before  the  possessive  a  (whether  it  signifies 
his,  her,  or  their),  the  letter  n  is  inserted  between 
the  vowels;  as  cpe  n-a  bapaib,  li  through  his 
hands;"  an  la  50  n-a  Ian  c-poillpe,  "the  day 
with  its  abundant  light." 

Except  after  t>o  and  be ;  as  cabaip  péup  Oá  capall  give 
grass  to  his  horse;  bam  geu5  O'á  5-cpann,  take  a  branch 
from  their  tree. 

Before  any  other  word  beginning  with  a  vowel,  the  letter  h 
is  usually  inserted  after  these  prepositions  ;  as  t>0  ÓuaiÓ  pe 
50  h-Glbain,  he  went  to  Alban  (Scotland). 


J16  IDIOMS.  [PART   IV, 

PAKT  IV. 
IDIOMS, 

Ax  idiom,  in  the  sense  in  which  it  is  used  here,  may  be 
defined  : — An  expression  that  has  acquired  by  usage  a  certain 
meaning,  which  becomes  lost  in  a  word-for-word  translation 
into  another  language ;  so  that  in  order  to  convey  the  true 
meaning  in  that  other  language,  the  form  of  expression  must 
be  changed. 

Thus,  "  cd  an  leabap  05  an  bume"  is  an  idiom,  for  its 
sense  is  lost  in  the  word-for-word  translation,  "the  book  is 
at  the  man; "  and  in  order  to  convey  the  true  meaning,  the 
English  expression  must  be  changed  to  "the  man  has  the  book." 

Idioms  constitute  one  of  the  chief  difficulties  in  learning 
any  language;  and  the  student  is  recommended  to  master 
this  Part,  in  which  the  principal  idioms  of  the  Irish  language 
are  explained  and  illustrated. 

1.  The  Infinitive  governing  Possessive  Pronouns. 

The  infinitive  of  a  transitive  verb  governs  its  object  in 
the  genitive  (Syntax,  Rule  15,  p.  112).  When  the  object,  in- 
stead of  being  a  noun,  is  a  personal  pronoun,  then,  according 
to  the  analogy  of  the  Rule  quoted,  it  should  be  in  the  geni- 
tive case.  But  the  genitive  of  a  personal  pronoun  is  a  pos- 
sessive pronoun  ;  and  possessive  pronouns  precede  the  words 
they  refer  to;  so  that  the  pronoun  which  represents  the 
object  of  the  action,  is  a  possessive,  and  precedes  the  infini 
tive,  influencing  its  initial  as  if  it  were  a  noun  (see  Syntax,  p. 
106,  Rules  3,  4,  5).  This  gives  rise  to  idiomatic  expression" 
like  the  following,  which  are  of  very  frequent  occurrence. 


English* 

Irish. 

Contracted  to. 

/me, 

bo  mo  bualao, 

Oom'  bualao. 

1  thee, 

00  00  bualaO, 

OoO'  bualaó. 

j  him, 

Oo  a  bualao, 

0(3  bualaO. 

To  strike  1  her, 

Oo  a  bualao, 

Oá  bualaó. 

J  us, 

bo  dp  m-bualao, 

Oáp  m -buala&. 

y°u» 

Oo  bup  m-bualao, 

(not  contracted; 

V.  them, 

Oo  a  m-bualaó, 

Od  m-bualao. 

PART   IV.]  IDIOMS.  117 

These  may  be  translated  literally,  "  to  my  striking,"  "  to 
their  striking,"  &c. 

A  like  construction  prevails  in  the  case  of  a  ti'ansitive  par- 
ticiple :  05  a  bualab,  striking  him  :  ag  a  bualab,  striking 
her:  05  tín  m-bualaó,  striking  us,  &c.  In  this  construc- 
tion the  participle  may  itself  be  governed  in  the  genitive 
case  by  a  noun: — cdmic  micm  a  mapbca  Dam  pém,  "a 
desire  to  kill  them,  has  come  to  me"  (lit.  "  a  desire  of  the 
killing  of  them,"  or  "of  their  killing.") 

2.  Compound  Prepositions  governing  Possessive 
Pronouns. 

A  compound  preposition  governs  the  genitive  (Rule  4, 
p.  1 14 )  ;  and  when  the  governed  word  is  not  a  noun  but 
a  personal  pronoun,  this  last  becomes  a  possessive,  and  goes 
before  the  noun-part  of  the  compound  preposition,  giving 
rise  to  idiomatic  phrases,  corresponding  with  those  quoted  in 
last  Idiom.  Example  :  aip  pon,  for  the  sake  o" ;  dip  a  pon, 
for  his  sake  ;  dip  bup  pon,  for  your  sake,  &c.  Do  cuaib 
Oiapmait)  bd  h-éip,  Diarmaid  went  after  her:  cdmic 
cmneap  oppapem,  a$up  ap  a  pliocc  'n-a  n-biaib. "  sick- 
ness came  upon  themselves,  and  on  their  posterity  after 
them." 

A  similar  construction  often  occurs  with  the  compound 
adverbs.  Example :  cap  aip,  backwards ;  bo  cuaib  pé 
cap  a  aip,  he  went  backwards  ;  bo  cuaib  pi  cap  a  h-aip, 
she  went  backwards ;  bo  cuaib  piab  cap  a  n-aip,  they 
went  backwards,  &c. 

3.  To  die. 

"  To  die,"  is  very  often  expressed  in  Irish  by  a  phrase 
meaning  "to  find  death:"  the  verb  pa§,  find,  being  used 
for  this  purpose,  in  its  various  forms  ;  as,  an  bapa  bliasain 
bd  éip  pm  puaip  lpial  báp,  "  the  second  year  after  that 
Irial  found  death  ;"  agup  máp  ann  acd  a  n-bdn  baiti  bdp 
bpdgail,  "and  if  it  be  here  that  it  is  in  fate  for  me  death 
to  find  "  (i.  e.,  "  that  it  is  fated  for  me  to  die.") 

There  is,  however,  a  single  verb  b'eus,  meaning  to  die, 
but  it  is  not  used  so  often  as  the  above.  The  following 
example  exhibits  both  forms : — Q  beip  cuib  bo  na  pean- 
usbapaib  sup  ab  a  n^leann  ba  loca  puaip  naorhpab- 
puig  bdp;  biob  50  n-abpaib  bpuns  oile  supab  ann 


118  IDIOMS.  [PART  IV. 

Gpbmaca  b'eus  ré,  "  some  of  the  old  authors  say  that  it  i§ 
in  Glendalough  St.  Patrick  found  death,  although  another 
party  say  that  it  is  in  Armagh  he  died." 

4.  Nominative  Absolute. 

What  is  called  the  nominative  absolute  in  English  is 
expressed  in  Irish  by  the  preposition  aip  (on),  or  lap  (after), 
placed  before  the  participle,  and  the  preposition  bo  (to) 
before  the  noun  ;  which  will  be  understood  from  the  follow- 
ing examples  : — op  m-beic  aca  paba  bo  Chopmac  05  a 
b-peiciorh,  "  Cormac,  having  been  a  long  time  watching 
them  "  (lit.  "  on  being  a  long  time  to  Cormac  a- watching  of 
them")  :  asup  dip  m-beic  ollarh  bon  lumg,  "and  the  ship 
being  ready  "  (lit.  "  and  on  being  ready  to  the  ship  ");  asup 
aip  n-bul  a  lums  bóib, "  and  they  having  gone  into  a 
ship:"  (lit.  "and  on  going  into  a  ship  to  them  ")  :  lUp 
m-beic  cpéan  íp  an  cíp  bóib,  "  they  having  grown  strong 
in  the  country"  (lit.  "  after  being  strong  in  the  country  to 
them"). 

5.  To  have  no  help  for  a  thing, 

The  Irish  phrase  corresponding  to  this  is  "  to  have  no 
strength  (neapc)  on  a  thing:"  the  "  having  "  being  expressed 
in  accordance  with  Idiom  34,  p.  130.  Ni  b-puil  neapc 
asum  aip  an  nib  pm,  I  have  no  help  for  that  thing — I 
cannot  help  that  (lit.  "  there  is  to  me  no  strength  on  that 
thing"),  a^up  a  bubaipc  5.Páinne  nac  paib  neapc 
aice  pém  aip,  "  and  Grainne  said  that  she  had  no  help  for 
it"  (or  "could not  help  it,"  "could  not  have  prevented  it"). 
Sometimes  léigeap,  remedy  or  cure,  is  used  in  the  same  way 
as  neapc. 

6.  To  cause  a  thing  to  be  done. 

To  cause  a  thing  to  be  done,  to  have  it  done,  to  see  that  it 
is  done,  to  order  it  to  be  done,  is  often  expressed  in  Irish 
by  bo  cup  (or  bo  cabaipc)  pá  beapa,  "  to  put  (or  bring,  or 
give),  under  notice."  Gsup  po  cuip  Tiliobac  pa  n-beapa 
uip  lnpe  Cuile  bo  cup  púib,  "and  Miodhach  caused  the 
mould  (or  soil)  of  Inis  Tuile  to  be  placed  under  you:"  bo 
pu5  (pig)  bpeac  bdip  aip  an  m-bpeiceam,  agup  CU5  pa 
beapa  a  cpocab  "  (the  king),  passed  sentence  of  death  on 
the  judge,  and  had  him  hanged  "  ("put  under  notice  him  to 
hang,"  or  "his  hrnging"). 


PART  IV.  J  IDIOMS.  119 

7.  Number  of  individuals  of  which  a  company  is 
composed. 

The  number  of  individuals  of  which  any  collection  of  per- 
sons or  things  is  made  up,  is  often  inserted,  in  the  nominative 
form,  in  a  narrative  sentence,  without  any  syntactical  con- 
nexion with  the  rest  of  the  sentence.  G5UP  cdimc  lip 
pontic  apnamdpac,  caogac  caippceac,  6  Shíoó  buibb 
Oeips,  "  and  Lir  set  out  on  the  morrow,  fifty  chariot-men, 
from  SheeBoveDerg"  (i.e.,  with  fifty  chariots) :  asup  camic 
boob  Oeaps,  naoi  céao  picceab,  ban-ionnpuige ;  "and 
Bove  Derg  came,  twenty-nine  hundred  men,  towards  them." 

This  is  like  the  English  : — "  The  duke  began  his  march  next 
morning,  20,000  strong." 

8.  Passive  Verbs  used  impersonally. 

A  passive  verbis  often  used  impersonally;  as  5dbpa  cusainn 
amac,  asup  ni  larhpap  puiliugab  ope,  "  come  forth  to  us 
and  no  one  will  dare  to  wound  thee  :  "  (literally,  "  and  it  will 
not  be  dared  [to  put]  wounding  on  thee). 

This  form  of  expression  is  of  very  frequent  occurrence  in 
the  older  narrative  writings  : — thus  instead  of  "  they  advance  ; 
they  plunge  into  the  (river)  Crond,"  the  writer  expresses  him- 
self in  this  way : — "  it  is  advanced  ;  it  is  plunged  into  the 
Crond." 

9.  Nominatives  before  Infinitives  and  Participles. 

Instead  of  the  usual  assertive  construction,  consisting  of  a 
^erb  with  its  nominative  (noun  or  pronoun),  the  following 
construction  is  often  adopted  : — the  verb  is  put  in  the  infini- 
tive or  participial  form,  and  the  subject  (whether  noun  or 
personal  pronoun)  is  placed  before  it,  the  pronoun  being  in 
the  accusative  form  (but  whether  the  noun  is  nominative  or 
accusative  cannot  be  determined,  as  there  is  no  distinction  of 
form)  ;  as  ip  arhlmD  bí  Nmpi  a^up  Déipbpe,  asup  an 
Cenncairh  ecappa,  aftup  lab  05  mnpc  uippe,  "  it  is  in  this 
manner  Naisi  and  Deirdre  were  (seated),  and  the  Cenn- 
chaimh  (a  chess  board)  between  them,  and  they  playing  on  it; 
ip  arhlaib  bo  bí  Cobcac,  agup  é  05  peapsab,  "  it  is  thus 
Cobhthach  was,  and,  he  pining  away ;"  cuipiop  pceuld  50 
blricnuib  é  péin  bo  beic  xmn  pin,  "  he  sends  word  to 
Blanid,  he  himself  to  be  there"  (i.e.,  "that  he  himself  was 
there"). 


120  idioms,  [part  iv 

This  form  of  expression  is  often  adopted  even  when  the 
verb  or  participle  is  (not  expressed  but)  understood;  as  bo  óuip 
(an  cú)  a  ceann  a  n-ucc  Ohiapmuba  agup  é  ma  cobla 
"  (the  hound)  put  her  head  in  the  breast  of  Diarmaid,  and  he 
in  his  sleep." 

10.  One  person  meeting  another. 

"Donall  met  Fergus"  is  often  expressed  in  Irish  in  the 
following  way  :— Do  capab  Pepgup  aip  Doiimall ;  literally 
"  Fergus  was  met  (or  turned)  on  Donall."  t)o  capab  Goibell 
na  Cpaige  léice  opumn,  "we  met  Eevelof  Craglea"  (lit. 
44  Eevel  of  Craglea  was  met  [or  turned]  on  us") :  cid 
cappaibe  opm  ace  pcuaib-bean,  "whom  should  I  meet 
but  the  fair  woman"  ("  who  should  be  met  on  me"). 

The  same  idea  is  expressed  by  the  verb  capla,  happened : 
a5Vjp  cópla  oslac  oppca  ap  m-bosac,  "  and  they  met  a 
youth  on  the  moor"  (lit.  "and  a  youth  happened  on  [or 
to]  them")  :  cpialluib  50  SliablThp  50  ccápla  banba  50 
n-a  bpaoicib  oppa  ann,  "they  travel  to  Slieve  Mish  until 
they  met  Banba  with  her  druids  there"  ("  until  Banba  with 
her  druidi  happened  on[  or  to]  them  there  "). 

U.  Although:  Although  not. 

(5ion  50  or  gion  $up  has  two  opposite  meanings  which  can 
only  be  distinguished  by  the  general  sense  of  the  passage  : 
sometimes  it  means  "although"  (or  "although  that"),  and 
sometimes  "although  not." 

Although:— a  phmn,  ap  Orsap,  51cm  gup  poi^re  mo 
gaol  buicpe  ná  bo  Ohiapmuib  O'Ohmbne,  "'0  Finn, 
says  Oscar,  'although  my  relationship  with  thee  is  nearer 
than  to  Diarmaid  O'Duibhne.'  " 

Although  not:— bo  bépuim  córhaiple  maic  bib,  a 
Chlamn  Uipmg,  ^ion  50  n-béncap  lib  i,  "  I  shall  give  a 
good  counsel  to  you,  O  sons  of  Usna,  though  it  will  not  be 
done  by  you  ;"  gion  gup  cedppb  mnd  an  nibpm,  "although 
that  proceeding  would  not  be  the  business  of  a  woman." 

12.  To  be  able. 

To  be  able  lo  do  a  thing  is  expressed  in  different  ways. 
The  most  usual  is  by  phrases  of  the  type,  ip  péibip  le,  "  it  is 
possible  with;"  asippeibipl'om  a  béanab,Ican  doit  (lit.  "it 
is  possible  with  me  to  do  it  :"  see  Idiom  1.) 

Another,  and  more  idiomatic  way,  is  by  the  verb  cisim.  "  I 


PART  IV.]  IDIOMS.  121 

come,"  in  its  various  moods  and  tenses ;  and  with  this  verb  "  I 
can  do,"  or  "I  am  able  to  do,"  is  expressed  by  "  it  comes  with 
me  to  do;"  as  Tnuna  b-aseab  pip  an  cailleac  b'amap, 
"  unless  he  would  be  able  to  strike  the  hag"  (lit.  "  unless  it 
would  come  with  him  the  hag  to  strike") ;  ace  mop  boilge 
pmn  md  pm  map  acdib  dp  o-cpí  pémnibe  ceangailce 
map  b-piaonuipe,  agup  nac  O-cig  pmn  psaoileab  c-íob, 
"and  we  think  more  grievous  than  that,  how  our  three 
champions  are  bound  in  our  presence,  and  that  we  are  not 
able  to  free  them :"  ni  cumeann  ualac  opparnn  nac  O-C15 
linn  a  íomcap,  "he  puts  not  a  burden  on  us  that  we  are  not 
able  to  bear." 

Sometimes  the  verb  cd  or  ip  is  used  instead  of  C15,  and 
also  the  preposition  05  instead  of  le;  as  6  nac  liom  bul  6n 
5-Concabaipc  po,  "since  I  cannot  escape  from  this  danger" 
("  since  it  is  not  with  me  to  go  from  this  danger  "  :  here  ip  is 
understood)  :  6  nac  b-puil  bul  uaio  a^um,  "  since  I  cannot 
escape  from  him"  ("  since  it  is  not  with  me  to  go  from  him  :  " 
here  cd  and  05  are  used,  as  in  "  possession  : "  Idiom  34. 

13.  One  of  a  pair. 
One  of  a  pair  is  often  expressed  by  the  word  leac,  half : 
leac-cop,  one  foot  (lit.  half- foot).  In  this  compound 
the  word  leac  is  used  adjectively,  so  that  lean-cop  means, 
not  half  of  a  foot,  but  a  half-foot  (i.e.,  a  foot  which  is  itself 
a  half,  i.e.,  half  of  a  pair).  So  also  leac-ptiil,  one  eye,  leac- 
caob,  one  side,  &c.  Ip  arhlaio  Oo  bi  an  pig  pm  asup  leac- 
larh  aipgib  aip,  "it  is  thus  that  king  was,  and  one  hand  of 
silver  on  him." 

14.  To  be  alone. 

The  word  aonap,  which  the  dictionaries  now  interpret  as 
meaning  "  alone,"  was  originally  a  concrete  numeral  noun 
like  cpiup,  cmseap,  &c.  (p.  39),  and  meant  "  one  person;" 
and  this  meaning  it  ratlins  to  some  extent  in  its  present  ap- 
plication:— bopiuDai  mé  a'm  aonap,  I  walked  alone  (lit. 
"  I  walked  in  my  one  person"  [see  Idiom  42]  :  or  "  I  walked  as 
one  person") ;  bo  piubal  cú  ab'  aonap,  thou  walkedst  alone : 
bo  piubal  pi  n-a  h-aonap,  "she  walked  alone,"  &c. ;  am 
aonap  peal  a  piubal  bioeap,  "  alone,  of  a  time,  walking  I 
was." 

Another  way  of  saying  in  Irish  "he  is  alone"  is  "he  is 
with  himself : "  ctí  mé  liom  pern,  I  am  alone  ("  I  am  with 
myself"):  cd  ct3  leac  pern,  thou  art  alone:  cd  piab  leo 
p6m,  they  are  alone :  cd  mo  mdicpín  'n-a  coblab,  agup 
mipe  liom  pern,  "my  mother  is  asleep,  and  I  am  alone." 

0 


122  IDIOMS.  [PAET  IV. 

15.  One  thing  given  for  another. 

When  you  give  or  take,  sell  or  buy,  one  thing  for  another, 
it  is  expressed  in  Irish  by  saying  you  give  it,  &c,  on  that 
other,  the  preposition  cnp  being  used.  Do  óug  pé  cpí  ba 
aip  an  5-capall  pm,  he  gave  three  cows  for  that  horse  :  aip 
eipe  ní  'neópamn  cia  h-i,  "for  Erin  I  would  not  tell  who 
she  is"  ('neópamn  for  mneópamn  :  see  p.  63). 

In  this  sense,  the  preposition  aip  is  set  before  the  noun  of 
price :  00  Ceannuigeap  an  bó  btín  pm  aip  pé  pumc,  I 
bought  that  white  cow  for  six  pounds :  ni  h-ionsna  ap 
Copmac,  óip  íp  maic  an  luac  cusap  uippe,  "'No 
wonder,'  says  Corniac,  '  for  good  is  the  price  I  gave  for  it.' " 

16.  Debt. 

The  fact  that  Donall  owes  Fergus  money,  or  that  Donall 
is  under  any  obligation  to  pay  money  to  Fergus,  is  expressed 
by  saying,  "  Fergus  has  money  on  Donall,"  the  preposition  aip 
being  used  before  the  name  of  the  debtor,  and  the  act  of 
"having"  being  expressed  by  cd  and  05  as  in  Idiom  31. 
Cd  cpt  púmc  05  pepftup  OLp  Oomnatl,  Donall  owes  three 
pounds  to  Fergus :  cd  bean  eile  a  n-eoóaill  a  b-puil  aici 
cop 6m  aip,  there  is  another  woman  in  Youghal  to  whom  he 
owes  a  crown"  ("to  whom  is  a  crown  on  him") :  íp  amlaift 
bo  bt  an  pig  po,  agup  ciop  cdm  mop  cpom  05  Pomopaig 
a])  Cuaca  t)é  Oanann  pe  n-a  Imn,  "  it  is  how  this  king  was, 
and  (that)  the  Fomorians  had  a  great  heavy  tribute  and  rule 
over  the  Tuatha  De  Dananns  during  his  time "  ("  a  great 
heavy  tribute  and  rule  was  with  the  Fomorians  on  the 
Tuath  De  Dananns"). 

17.  Asking,  entreating,  &c. 

To  ask,  request,  entreat,  or  demand  of  a  person,  is  ex- 
pressed by  "to  ask,  &c,  on  that  person:"  iapp  aip  Dbia  na 
5pdna  pm,  "  ask  of  God  those  graces." 

18.  Sensation,  suffering,  &c. 

That  a  person  is  hungry,  thirsty,  cold,  afraid,  sick,  &c,  Í3 
expressed  in  Irish  by  saying  that  hunger,  thirst,  cold,  fear,  sick- 
ness, &c,  is  on  him,  the  preposition  aip  being  used  :  cd  puacc 
enm  (cold  is  on  me),  I  am  cold ;  nd  bio&  eagla  ope  (let  not 
feu/  be  on  thee)  be  not  afraid  :  t>o  bi  cape  móp. aip  Sbea- 
gan  (great  thirst  was  on  John),  John  was  very  thirst»  ■  cat» 


PART  rv.]  IDIOMS.  123 

é  rm  ope  ?  (what  is  that  on  thee  ?)  what  ails  you  ?  Q  cuiple 
mo  cpoi&e  cpeub  í  an  gpuaim  pin  ope  ?  "  O  pulse  of  my 
heart,  what  is  that  frown  on  thee  ?" 


19.  One  person  entertaining  feelings  (of  love, 
hatred,  &c.)  towards  another. 

That  Donall  entertains  certain  feelings  towards  Fergus  is 
expressed  hy  saying  that  Donall  has  such  feelings  on  Fergus  ; 
the  preposition  aip  being  used  before  "Fergus,"  and  the  act  of 
"  having  "  being  expressed  by  cd  and  05,  as  in  idiom  34: — ni 
mó  an  cion  po  bd  05  Oongup  opepa  md  an  cion  po  bd  05 
mumcip  Oongupa  ap  mac  an  peaccaipe,  50 paib  popmab 
móp  ap  c'acaip  pd  n-a  cionn  pm,  "  not  greater  was  the  affec- 
tion Aonghus  felt  for  thee  than  the  affection  the  people  of 
Aonghus  felt  for  the  son  of  the  steward,  so  that  thy 
father  felt  great  jealousy  on  that  account "  (lit.  "  not  greater 

was  the  affection  which  was  with  Aonghus  on  thee, 

so  that  great  jealousy  was  on  thy  father  on  the  head  of  that :" 
see  Idiom  32). 

Where  the  agent  is  not  specified,  a  similar  form  of  expres- 
sion is  retained :  you  are  loved,  is  expressed  by  love  is  on  you  : 
you  are  esteemed,  by  estimation  is  on  you,  &c. :  cd  meap 
agup  cion  móp  aip  Opcap  (great  esteem  and  love  are  on 
Oscar),  Oscar  is  greatly  esteemed  and  loved. 

20.  To  know  :  to  know  a  person. 

To  know  is  usually  expressed  in  Irish  by  the  phrase  know- 
ledge is  with  me,  I  have  knowledge  ;  and  to  know  a  person 
by  "to  have  or  to  give  knowledge  on  a  person  :  "  "  '  agup  on 
b-puil  a  piop  agab  pém,  a  phmn?'  'ni  b-puil,'  ap 
Pionn  :"  "  '  do  you  know  it,  O  Finn  ?  '  '  I  do  not,'  says  Finn  " 
(lit.,  is  its  knowledge  with  you,  O  Finn?  It  is  not,  says 
Finn):  an  ail  leac  piop  b'pdjail?  do  you  wish  to  know  ? 
("is  it  a  desire  with  you  knowledge  to  get  ?")  :  biob-  a  piop 
agac,  a  leugcoip,  "know  O  reader"  ("be  its  knowledge 
with  thee,  O  reader"):  (strangers  are  seen  coming  towards 
Finn  and  his  party),  po  piappaij,  pionn  bo  ede  an  b-cuga- 
oap  aicne  oppca,  "Finn  asked  of  the  others  did  they  know 
them"  (lit.  "  did  they  put  knowledge  on  them  ")  :  asup  cu- 
gaippe  aicne  opm,  "and  thou  knewestme"  (lit.  u  and  thou 
didst  put  knowledge  on  me"). 


124  IDIOMS.  [part  IV. 

21.  To  part  from,  to  separate  from. 

To  separate  from  a  person  is  expressed  in  Irish  by  "to 
separate  with  a  person,"  the  preposition  le  or  pe  being  used: 
much  in  the  same  manner  as  we  say  in  English,  "  I  parted 
witb  him: ''  pcapabap  pern  afiup  Oiapmaib  pen-a  céile, 
"  they  themselves  and  Diarmaid  separated  from  each  other  :  " 
bo  pcap  pé  pinn,  "  he  separated  from  us  ;"  pcap  Opcap  le 
Oiapmaib,  "  Oscar  separated  from  Diarmaid  : "  bo  pcapjiip, 
"he  separated  from  him;"  05  Cuppac  Cill'-bapa  bo 
pcapap  le  gpab  mo  cpoióe,  "at  the  Curragh  of  Kildare 
I  parted  from  the  '  love  of  my  heart.'  " 

22.  However  great,  however  good,  however 
brave,  &c. 

Da  placed  before  some  abstract  nouns  gives  a  meaning  which, 
though  it  is  well  understood  in  practical  use,  has  puzzled 
grammarians  to  analyse  and  explain,  and  which  will  be  best 
understood  by  a  few  examples.  From  the  adjective  dlainn, 
fine  or  beautiful,  is  formed  dilne  or  tíille,  fineness,  beauty; 
and  ba  dilne  or  ba  dille,  means  "  however  fine,"  "  how  fine 
soever."  Examples: — Ní  b-puilpionúpbdrheub.nacb-cuil- 
lit>,"  there  is  no  punishment  however  great  that  they  do  not  de- 
serve : "  an  cpeap  geip,  san  corhpag  aoinpip  bd  bpéipi  aip 
calrhain  b'obab,  "  the  third  injunction,  not  to  refuse  single 
combat  to  any  man  on  earth,  however  mighty  :"  bearhannd 
biabal  bd  cpéipe  Idrh,  "  demon  or  devil,  however  mighty  of 
hand." 

23.  Both  one  and  another :  both  these  and  those. 

Both,  in  such  phrases  as  "both  men  and  women,"  is  often 
expressed  in  Irish  by  the  preposition  lbip,  between  ;  as  bain- 
pib  Dia  pdpam  biob  ann  gac  poóap  b'd  b-eugjDóib  lbip 
ceill,  ceabpabaib,  asup  conac  paogalca,  "  God  will  exact 
an  account  from  them  in  every  advantage  He  has  given  to  them 
between  understanding,  senses,  and  worldly  prosperity  :"  cdifr". 
mile  lbip  peapaib  asup  mndib,  five  thousand,  between  men 
and  women  (i.e.  both  men  and  women,  or  reckoning  men  and 
women). 

24.  To  overtake. 

To  overtake  a  person  is  often  expressed  by  "  to  bear  on  a 
person,"  the  verb  beip,  bear,  being  used  with  the  preposition 


PABT  IV.]  IDIOMS.  125 

aip.  Examples: — pdsbam  an  culac  po  ap  easla  50 
m-beappaó  Gongup  an  Ohpoga  oppuinn,  "let  113  leave  this 
hill  for  fear  that  Aonghus  of  the  Brugh  would  overtake  its :" 
leanuji  aip  a  lop 5  50  péimoípeac  iat)  bo'n  111  hum  am, 
50  PU5  oppa  05  Solcóit),  "he  follows  them  on  their  track 
directly  to  Minister,  so  that  he  overtook  them  at  Solenoid  . " 
50  nac  púispibíp  an  ponn  pm  no  50  m-beipeao  TCIapcpa 
Si&e  oppa,  "  that  they  might  not  leave  that  territory  till  the 
fairy  cavalcade  should  overtake  them:"  panpabpa  leac  ap 
an  lácaip  po  nó  50  m-beipip  opm  apip,  "  I  will  wait  for 
thee  at  this  place  till  thou  overtake  me  again  :"  506  aon  aip 
a  m-béappamnpi,  "every  one  whom  I  would  overtake" 
("  every  one  on  whom  I  would  bear"). 

25.  To  win  a  game  on  a  person. 

To  win  a  game  on  a  person  is  expressed  by  "to  put  a  game 
on  hiin:"  asup  bo  cóo  Oipin  an  peap  pm,  asup  po  Cuip 
an  cluicce  ap  ptnonn,  "and  Oisin  moved  that  (chess-)  man 
and  won  a  game  on  Finn:"  agup  ni  pugamap  an  báipe  ap 
a  céile,  "and  we  did  not  win  the  goal  on  each  other"  (i.e. 
neither  of  us  won  the  goal  on  the  other." 

26.  To  think  long,  short,  well  of,  ill  of  :  to  think 
hot,  cold,  hateful,  &c. 

Such  phrases  as  "  it  seemed  long  to  him,"  "he  thought  it 
long,1'  are  expressed  by  the  verb  lp  and  the  preposition  le  :  ip 
paba  liom  ("it  is  long  with  me"),  it  seems  long  to  me,  I 
think  it  long.  dsup  bo  bo  paba  le  na  bpáicpib  bo  bi 
bpian  uaca,  "and  his  brothers  thought  it  long  that  Brian 
was  away  from  them"  ("  it  was  long  with  his  brothers,  &c.")  : 
ip  ole  linn  ap  bean  pioc,  "  we  think  bad  of  what  has 
happened  to  thee"'("  it  is  evil  with  us:"  ap  =  a  po,  and  a 
means  "  all  that : "  see  p.  47) :  cuigimpi  nac  lonrimm  leacpa 
me  pern,  "  I  understand  that  thou  dost  not  love  me"  ("  that 
not  beloved  with  thee  am  I  myself"). 

Observe  the  difference  in  meaning  conveyed  by  the  two  pre- 
positions le  and  bo  :  ip  maic  é  bo'n  b-peap  pin,  it  is  ad- 
vantageous to  that  man  (whether  he  thinks  it  so  or  not)  :  ip 
maic  é  leip  an  b-peap  pin,  that  man  thinks  it  advantageous 
(whether  it  is  really  so  or  not).  The  following  example  shows 
buth  forms  : — ba  maic  liom  piubail  ace  mop  maic  bam 
é,  I  wished  to  walk,  but  it  was  not  good  for  me. 


126  IDIOMS.  |jPAETIV. 

27.  To  wish  for :  to  like :  to  be  glad  of :  to  prefer. 

After  the  same  manner,  a  desire,  wish,  liking  for,  &c,  is 
expressed  by  such  words  as  micm,  desire  ;  die,  pleasure  ;  ail, 
will  or  pleasure,  &c. :  ip  dill  liom  piop  O'pdgolil,  I  wish  to 
know  ("  it  is  a  desire  with  me  knowledge  to  get") :  Oo  cuip- 
pmn  péin  púil  an  caic  pin  at»  h-ucc  a  n-ionaO  Oo  púl,  ap 
peap  Oiob :  Oo  b'aic  liom  pm,  ap  an  Oóippeoip,  "  '  I  would 
put  the  eye  of  that  cat  in  thy  lap  in  place  of  thy  eye,'  says 
a  man  of  them.     '  I'would  like  that,'  says  the  door-keeper." 

The  word  pedpp,  better,  is  used  in  the  same  way  to  ex- 
press preference  :  ip  péapp  liom  Oo  Oeapbpdcaip  nd  cupa, 
I  prefer  thy  brother  to  thyself:  I  would  rather  have  thy 
brother  than  thyself  (lit.  "  thy  brother  is  better  with  me," 
&c) ;  Oo  b'pedpp  le  bpigiO  leabap  maic  nd  aip^eaO, 
Brigid  would  prefer  a  good  book  to  money  (lit.  "  a  good  book 
would  be  better  with  Erigid,"  &c).  The  following  example 
shows  the  application  of  both  mian  and  pedpp  : — Ní  h-é  ip 
mian  leip  an  ugOap  (ni  mo,  ní  h-é  ip  nnan  liom-pa)  cu  Oo 
bpeugan  ;  .  .  .  .  ace  ip  é  Oob'  pedpp  leip  pm  (a^up 
liom-pa)  Oo  cpoi&e  Oo  pealbugaO:  "it  is  not  what  the 
author  wishes  (neither  is  it  my  wish)  to  amuse  thee  (cu  Oo 
Speu^an)  ....  but  it  is  what  he  would  pi-efer  (and  I  also) 
to  possess  thy  heart." 

Pedpp  followed  by  le  expresses  mental  preference  as  shown 
above  :  butpeapp  followed  by  Oo  is  equivalent  to  the  English 
expression  "better  for,"  "better  that,"  &c.  Ip  pedpp 
Oompa  anoip,  ap  Lug,  piop  na  h-eapca  ÚO  Oo  cabaipe 
óaoib.  Ip  peapp  ceana,  ap  íaOpan,  '  it  is  better  for  me 
now,'  says  Lugh,  '  a  knowledge  of  that  eric  (fine)  to  give  you.' 
'  It  is  better  indeed,'  say  they." 

28.  To  think  little  of — much  of — to  grudge. 

Similar  to  the  preceding  is  the  use  of  the  words  beaft  and 
móp  (little  and  much)  in  several  idiomatic  phrases,  which 
occur  very  frequently,  and  which  will  be  best  understood  by 
the  following  examples : — lp  mop  liom  an  luac  pm,  I  think 
that  price  large  ("that  price  is  large  with  me"):  6ip  Od 
m-beic  mac  agumne  lona  pui&e  pompa,  niop  beas  leo 
Oo  cuip  Odp  mapbaO  é,  "  for  if  (even)  a  child  of  us  would 
be  sitting  ("in  his  sitting:"  see  Idiom  42)  before  them, 
they  would  not  deem  it  (too)  little  cause  to  kill  us  "  (lit.  "  it 
would  not  be  with  them  a  small  [thing]  for  a  cause  to  kill 
us :"  for  Odp  inapbab:  see  Idiom  1)  :  Oap  mo  bpiacap  ap 


PABT  IV.]  IDIOMS.  127 

Naifi  nibes  Imnepin  uaic,  '"by  my  word/ says Naisi,  'we 
do  not  think  that  small  from  thee.' " 

The  two  expressions  ip  móp  le  and  ni  beas  le  (it  is  much 
with,  it  is  not  little  with)  are  used  to  express  the  idea  of  un- 
willingness or  grudging  :  ip  móp  liom  aon  pmgín  t>o  oab- 
aipc  oo,  I  think  it  much — I  grudge — to  give  one  penny  to 
him  :  the  very  same  idea  is  expressed  by  ni  beag  liom  aon 
pmsin,  &c,  I  think  it  not  little— I  grudge— one  penny,  I 
think  one  penny  enough,  &c.  The  two  reverse  expressions 
(ni  mop  le — ip  beag  le)  are  used  to  express  willingness — 
not  grudging,  &c. :  ní  móp  liom  na  cpi  ba  po  oo  cabaipc 
bo,  I  do  not  think  it  much — I  am  quite  willing — I  do  not 
grudge — to  give  him  these  three  cows ;  which  might  also  be 
expressed  by  saying,  ip  bea^  liom,  &c. — I  think  it  little — I 
would  give  more,  I  would  have  more,  I  would  want  more ; 
I  am  willing— I  do  not  grudge,  &c— bo  beipmíb  áj) 
m-bpiacap,  ap  piab,  nac  beas  linn  a  m-beupam  50  pionn 
biob,  "  '  we  give  our  word,'  said  they  '  we  think  it  not  small — 
we  grudge — what  (a  =  all  that :  see  p.  47)  we  shall  bring 
of  them  to  Finn.'  "  (See  Mr.  Standish  O'Grady's  note,  in 
the  "  Pursuit  of  Diarmaid  and  Grainne,"  p.  140.) 

When  móp  and  beci5  are  used  with  the  preposition  bo, 
they  give  the  idea  of  enough  or  not  enough  for  a  person: 
niop  beas  bo  (mapbab  bap  n-aicpeac)  map  eipic  aaibpe, 
(the  killing  of  your  fathers)  is  not  small  to  him — is  enough 
for  him — should  suffice  for  him — as  an  eric  (fine)  from  you  : 
niop  beag  buic  a  ba  bo  bp  eic  6  phionn,  "  it  was  not  little 
for  you — it  was  enough  for  you — to  take  away  his  cows  from 
Finn." 

29.  Woe  to. 

Ip  maips  bon  b-peap  pm,  woe  to  that  man  :  a  rhaips 
bo'n  bpung  goipeap  bo'n  olc  maic,  "woe  to  those  who  call 
evil  good."  Expressions  of  this  kind  are  sometimes  elliptical ; 
as,  ip  maips  nac  n-béanann  comaiple  beaé-iimá,  "  woe 
[to  him]  who  doeth  not  the  counsel  of  a  good  wife  "  (lit.  "  it 
is  woe  who  doeth  not,"  &c). 

30.  So  . .  as  :     as   . .   as. 

When  these  "correspondent  conjunctions  "  are  expressed 
in  Irish,  the  second  one  is  usually  translated  either  by  0511  p, 
"  and,"  or  by  le,  "  with  :"  aftup  a  bubaipc  pia  an  can  bo 
biob  a  mac  com  appacca  asup  50  lionpab  a  meup  an 
106,  "  and  he  said  to  her  when  his  son  should  be  so  grown 
(com  appacca)  as  that  his  finger  would  fill  the  ring"  (lit. 


128  IDIOMS.  [part  IV. 

"so  grown  and  that  his  finger,"  &c):  bo  bi  a  pleag  com 
peumap  le  mol  muillmn,  "his  spear  was  as  thick  as  the 
Bhaft  of  a  mill"  (lit.  "  as  thick  with.") 

Qgup  follows  amlaib  or  amla  (thus,  so,  in  this  manner), 
much  in  the  same  way  as  it  follows  com  ;  and  in  this  use  it 
sometimes  answers  very  nearly  to  "viz.:"  cm  amlaib  00 
pump  Naipi  acap  Déipbpe,  acap  an  Cenncaem  eeappa, 
"  it  is  thus  he  found  Naisi  and  Déirdre,  and  the  Cenn-chaemh 
(a  kind  of  chess-board)  between  them.'  (Meaning,  "  it  was 
thus  he  found  them,  viz.,  with  the  Ccnn-chaemh  between 
them.") 

31.  Every  other  day :   every  second  day  :  every 
alternate  day. 

Phrases  like  these  are  often  expressed  in  Irish  by  the  in- 
definite pronoun  50c,  followed  by  the  preposition  le  or  pe. 
(5uc  le  Dorrmac  05  bul  cum  ceampoill,  going  to  the  church 
every  other  (or  every  alternate)  Sunday :  na  cpí  pi^ce  pm  bo 
GhuacmbOe  Danann  bo  bi  1  b-plcuciop  Gipearm  50c  pe 
m-bliagam,  "  these  three  kings  of  the  Tuatha  De  Danann 
were  in  the  sovereignty  of  Erin  every  other  year"  (i.e.  each 
for  a  year). 

32.  The  Head. 

The  word  for  head  is  used  in  Irish,  as  it  is  in  most  lan- 
guages, in  a  great  variety  of  idiomatic  phrases.  Some  have  been 
already  noticed  among  the  compound  propositions  ;  and  these 
and  others  will  be  understood  from  the  following  examples. 

a  5-ceann  bliabna,  at  the  end  of  a  year  :  bo  bi  piab  a 
5-ceann  na  paicce,  they  were  at  the  end  of  the  field,  a 
bubaipc  Naipi  le  h-Opban  bul  aip  ceann  pepsuip,  "Naisi 
said  to  Ardan  to  go  for  Fergus  "  ("  to  go  on  the  head  of  Fer- 
gus"):  pillpe  aip  a  5-ceann,  "turn  thou  back  for  them" 
("  on  their  head").  O  nac  liom  bul  on  5-concabaipc  po 
am  ceann,  "since!  am  not  able  to  escape  from  this  danger 
[that  liesj  before  me"  (am  ceann,  "  in  my  head  "  =  before 
me).  "Racpab  ab  ceann,  a  phmn,  asup  a  5-ceann  na 
pémne,  "  I  will  go  to  thee  (or  before  thee),  O  Finn,  and  to 
the  Feni"  ("in  thy  head  and  in  the  head  of  the  Fern").  Qcap 
beipib  buaib  acap  bennaccam  bá  cenn,  "and  bear  ye  vic- 
tory and  blessing  on  its  account"  (bd  cenn,  "  from  its  head"). 
Cap  ceann  sup  paoil  an  coiceacnacpaibbaosalap  bic 
ap  pern,  "although  the  rich  man  thought  that  there  was  no 
danger  at  all  to  (i.e.  of)  himself  (cap  ceann  sup,  "over  the 
head  that"  =  although),    lp  longna  buicpe  an  5pab  pm  bo 


PART  IV.]  IDIOMS.  129 

cabaipcbarhpa  cap  ceann  phinn,  ap  Diapmaib,  "  'it  is  a 
wonder  for  thee  to  give  that  love  to  me  instead  of  (to)  Finn  ' 
says  Diarmaid"  (cap  ceann  phmn,  "over  the  head  of  Finn," 
in  preference  to  Finn,  instead  of  Finn) 

33.  A  proper  noun  with  the  genitive  of  a  noun  of 
office.* 

When  a  proper  noun  is  followed  by  a  noun  in  the  genitive 
signifying  a  profession,  office,  trade,  or  calling,  the  resulting 
phrase  has  a  curious  idiomatic  meaning. 

Seagan  anpigeabopa,  which  is  word  for  word,  "John        ?- S~^ 
of  the  weaver,"  means  in  reality  "  John  (the  son,  son-in-law, 
servant,  or  some  other  close  connection)  of  the  weaver ." 
Seagan  na  bamcpeabaige,    "John  (the  son,  &c.)  of  the 
widow." 

If,  while  the  proper  name  is  in  the  nominative,  the  second 
noun  is  also  in  the  nominative,  the  meaning  is  quite  different, 
the  second  noun  being  then  simply  in  apposition  to  the  first : 
thus  Pepgup  maop  (nom.)  means  "Fergus  the  steward;': 
but  Pep^up  an  rhaoip  (gen.)  is  "  Fergus  (the  son,  &c.)  of 
the  steward." 

Suppose,  now,  you  have  to  express  in  Irish  such  a  phrase 
as  "  the  house  of  Fergus  the  steward,"  in  which  the  proper 
name  must  be  in  the  genitive :  as  the  two  nouns  are  in  appo- 
sition, the  second,  according  to  a  rule  of  Syntax  (Rule  6, 
p.  96)  should  also  be  in  the  genitive:  ceac  phep^uip  an 
liiaoip.  But  here  is  an  ambiguity;  for,  according  to  the 
present  idiom,  this  expression  would  also  mean  "  the  house  of 
Fergus  (the  son,  &c.)  of  the  steward."  To  avoid  this  am- 
biguity, a  disagreement  in  case  is  allowed  in  such  expressions, 
between  the  two  nouns,  when  they  are  in  apposition.  Thus 
"  the  house  of  Fergus  the  steward"  is  ceac  phepsuip  maop 
(in  which  piiepstiip  is  gen.  and  maop  nom.) ;  whereas  ceac 
phepsuip  an  rhaoip  is  understood  to  mean  "  the  house  of 
Fergus  (the  son,  &c.)  of  the  steward."  So  in  Dr.  MacHale's 
translation  of  Homer,  the  first  two  lines  are  rendered  : — 
bpuc  (Xcuil  pemn,  615"  nearhoa,  a'p  buan  peaps  ; 
dcuilmic  peil,  an  gaipsióeac  ceinnceacgaps. 
"  The  wrath  of  Achilles  sing,  O  heavenly  virgin,  and  his  en- 
during anger,  of  Achilles  son  of  Peleus,  the  fiery  fierce  hero." 

*  The  substance  of  thi3  explanation  and  the  illustrative 
examples  have  been  taken  from  an  interesting  Essay  on  the 
present  state  of  the  Irish  language  in  Munster,  written  and 
sent  to  the  Royal  Irish  Academy  by  Mr.  John  Fleming  of 
Rathgoruiuck, 


130  IDIOMS.  [part  IV. 

Here  the  last  noun  5aip5lÓea0,  with  its  two  adjectives,  ie  in 
the  nominative,  while  Ócuil,  with  which  it  is  in  apposition, 
is  genitive. 

In  the  first  example,  Rule  7,  p.  96,  bean  Sheagam  an 
pigeaOopa,  accordingly,  is  not  "  the  wife  of  John  the 
weaver,"  but  " the  wife  of  John  (son,  &c.)  of  the  weaver;" 
the  wife  of  John  the  weaver,  would  be  expressed  by  bean 
Sheagam  pigeaOóip. 

34.  Possession. 

There  is  no  verb  in  Irish  corresponding  to  the  English  verb 
"to  have"  as  expressing  possession;  and  the  sentence  "the 
man  has  a  book,"  is  expressed  in  Irish  by  the  verb  cd  and  the 
preposition  05,  in  this  form,  cd  leabap  05  an  buine,  "a 
book  is  at  (or  with)  the  man  :"  ca  aipgeab  asum  ("  money 
is  with  me"),  I  have  money:  cm  bé  05  a  b-puil  aipseaO 
("  whoever  with  whom  is  money"),  whoever  has  money.  Ni 
péi'oip  le  bume  an  nió  nac  m-beioeao  aige  bo  cabaipe 
uaio,  agup  ni  b-pml  Oo-mapbGacc  agumpa,  "  it  is  im- 
possible for  a  man  to  give  away  what  he  does  not  himself 
possess,  and  I  do  not  possess  immortality"  (word-for-word  : 
"  it  is  not  possible  for  a  man  the  thing  which  would  not  be 
with  him  to  give  from  him,  and  not  is  immortality  with  my- 
self"). Do  aisel  Concubap  bopac  acap  bo  piappaig  Oé 
an  paib  pleO  ollam  aige  60,  "  Conchobhar  addressed 
Borach  and  inquired  of  him  whether  he  had  a  feast  prepared 
for  him"  (lit.:  "whether  a  feast  was  ready  with  him  [i.e. 
Borach]  for  him  [i.e.  Conchobar."] 

The  use  of  pronouns  in  this  idiom  sometimes  gives  rise  to 
further  idiomatic  complications.  Cia  agumneag  a  b-puil 
an  pipmne?  "Which  of  us  has  the  truth?"  This  is  word 
f  orword:  "  Which  of  us  with  whom  is  the  truth  ?"  and  the 
interrogative  appears  without  any  government  or  other  syn- 
tactical connection.  Some  good  authorities  believe  that  the 
preposition  05  in  this  construction  governs  not  only  the  rela- 
tive a,  but  also,  by  a  sort  of  attraction,  the  interrogative  cia. 
Cd  bean  eile  a  n-6ocaill  ab-puilaici  copóm  aip,  "there 
is  another  woman  in  Youghal  who  has  a  crown  on  him"  (i.e. 
to  whom  he  owes  a  crown  :  Idiom  16).  Here,  also,  there  is 
an  apparent  redundancy,  the  act  of  "  having"  being  expressed 
doubly,  namely,  both  by  the  relative  a  before  b-puil,  and  by 
aici ;  and  the  relative,  according  to  the  same  authority,  would 
be  governed  by  the  preposition  05  of  aici.  The  sentence  may 
be  expressed  without  redundancy  in  this  manner : — Gd  bean 


PART  IV.]  IDIOMS.  131 

eile  a  n-Gocaill  05  a  b-puil  copóm  aip.  The  last  ex- 
ample exactly  resembles  the  English  "there  is  a  man  in  Dublin 
whom  I  owe  a  pound  to  him  : "  and  perhaps  it  would  be 
better  to  consider  it,  like  the  English  sentence,  merely  as  bad 
grammar,  which  is  to  be  avoided  by  using  a  different  form  of 
expression  in  the  manner  shown.  The  apparent  redundancy 
of  the  first  example,  which  is  from  a  good  authority,  cannot, 
however,  be  got  rid  of  in  this  way.  So  also  in,  cia  lei p  an 
ceac  pin  (who  owns  that  house),  the  le  of  leip  would  ap- 
pear to  govern  the  pronoun  with  which  it  is  combined,  and 
also  the  interrogative  cia. 

35.  Ownership. 

Ownership  is  expressed  by  the  verb  ip  and  the  preposition 
le,  with:  ip  leacpa  an  ceac,  "  the  house  belongs  to  thee" 
(lit.  "  it  is  with  thee  the  house  ") :  ip  lem'  acaip  na  ba  pin, 
those  cows  belong  to  my  father  ("it  is  with  my  father  those 
cows'):  cia  leip  na  ba  pm,  who  owns  those  cows  ?  ("who 
with  him  [are]  those  cows?")  Oip  ip  le  neac  éigm  bo 
Chuaca  Oe  Danann  na  muca,  "  for  the  pigs  belong  to 
some  person  of  the  Tuatha  De  Danann."  (A  wizard  holds  a 
golden  branch  in  his  hand,  and  king  Cormac  asks  him)  an 
leac  pern  an  cpaob  pm  ?  "Does  that  branch  belong  to 
thyself  ?" 

Observe  the  distinction  between  this  idiom  and  the  last  in 
the  following  sentence: — Ga  aipgeab  50  leóp  agab,  accni 
leac  pém  é,  "  thou  hast  plenty  of  money,  but  it  does  not 
belong  to  thyself." 

36.  "Wanting  a  thing. 
The  idea  of  wanting  a  thing,  including  a  wish  to  get  it,  is 
usually  expressed  by  the  verb  cd  and  the  preposition  ó  from : 
ca  leabap  uaim,  I  want  a  book:  lit.,  "  a  book  is  from  me:" 
cpeub  aca  uaic  ?    "  What  dost  thou  want  ?" 

37.  Genitive  plurals  of  Personal  Pronouns. 
Each  of  the  three  prepositional  pronouns,  againn,  agaib, 
aca,   has  two   different  meanings,  which  are  always  easily 
distinguished  by  the  context. 

1.  Possession,  as  in  Idiom  34 :  t)o  bi  leabaip  aca,  they 
had  books. 

2.  The  sense  of  a  genitive  plural  when  following  words  de- 
noting a  part:  gaó  peap  aguinn,  "each  man  of  us/'  po 
eipis  an  bapa  peap  acopan  Co  béanarii  an  cleapa,  "the 


132  IDIOMS.  [PAUT  IV. 

second  man  of  thc?n  (acopan,  "of  themselves")  arose  toper- 
form  the  feat :"  cia  asumne  05  a  b-puil  an  pipinne,  ap 
Pionn,  '"which  of  us  has  the  truth,'  says  Finn"  (05  a 
b-puil,  "with  whom  is"  ="  has:"  see  Idiom  31). 

38.  To  give  a  name. 

To  give  a  name  to  a  thing  is  often  expressed  in  Irish  by  to 
put  a  name  on  it ;  map  50  ccuscap  bá  bancuacac  aip 
bhécoill  asup  aip  Ohanann,  "as  (the  name)  'two  ladies' 
was  put  on  Eechoill  and  Danann:  i.e.  as  they  "were  called 
'two  ladies.'"  TTlap  50  b-cus  cleap  aip  an  5-cleap  pm, 
"as  he  called  that  feat  'afeaf/"  (lit.  "as  that  he  put  [the 
name]  'feat'  on  that  feat"). 

Sometimes,  also,  to  give  such  and  such  a  name  to  a  thing 
is  expressed  by  "to  say  such  and  such  a  name  with  a  thing :" 
TCop-bá-páileacpip  a  pdibceap  Luimneacaniu,  "Eos-cla- 
shaileach  which  is  called  Limerick  now"  (lit.  "  E.  with  which 
is  said  '  Limerick  '  now"). 

39.  t)e  after  comparatives. 

The  prepositional  pronoun  be  "  of  it,"  is  often  postfixedto 
comparatives,  giving  rise  to  some  idiomatic  phrases.  G5UP 
5ion  50  b-puil  cuib  asumn  bo  mapbao  Oiapmaba,  nf 
móibebo  geubab  (Gongup)  an  pipinne  uaun,  "and  al- 
though we  have  no  part  in  killing  Diarmaid,  Aongus  would 
not  the  more  receive  the  truth  from  us"  (here  móibe  is  be 
added  to  mó,  the  comparative  of  mop,  great :  for  51  on  30  = 
"  although  not :"  see  Idiom  11).  lp  pupaibe  b'Phionn  típ 
lopQ-na  leanarhain,  an  eacpa  beica^ainn,  "  it  is  the  easier 
for  Finn  to  follow  our  track  that  we  have  the  horses  "  (pu- 
paibe =  be  after  pupa,  comparative  of  pupup,  easy) :  i.e. 
"  our  having  the  horses  makes  it  easier  for  Finn,"  &c. 

40.  "  A  man  of  great  strength." 
"A  man  of  great  strength,"  is  expressed  by  the  Irish  peap 
ípmóp  neapc,  which  translated  word  for  word  is  "a  man 
(who)  is  great  strength:"  the  words  móp  neapc  beinginthe 
nominative,  and  not  in  the  genitive,  as  might  be  expected 
from  the  English  "  of  great  strength."  This  idiom  is  ex- 
tremely common  in  Irish,  the  verb  ip  in  some  of  its  forms 
being  always  used ;  and  when  translating  it,  remember  that 
the  Irish  words,  though  in  the  nominative  case,  convey  the 
exact  sense  of  the  genitive  with  "  of  "  in  English,  and  must  be 


H 


part  rv.]  IDIOMS.  133 

rendered  accordingly.  Mi  paib  a  g-córhaimpip  pip  peap 
ba  rhó  óp  agup  aipgeab  mdOiapmaib,  "  there  was  not  at 
the  same  time  with  him  a  man  who  had  more  gold  and  silver 
than  Diarmaid  "  (lit.  "  a  man  [who]  was  greater  gold  and 
silver,"  i.e.  "a  man  who  was  of  greater  gold  and  silver.") 
Do  Óeapcap  an  beic  ba  niarhoa  cpuc,  "  I  saw  a  lady  (of) 
bright  shape :"  Galarh  ba  pedpp  biaó  agup  beoc,  "  a  land 
(of)  the  best  food  and  drink:"  Oipin  ba  cpeun  neapc  a'p 
luc,  "  Oisin  of  mighty  strength  and  vigour." 

Sometimes  the  preposition  50  (with)  is  used  instead  of  the 
verb:  as  peap  50  móp  neapc,  a  man  with  great  strength, 
i.e.  a  man  of  great  strength. 

41.  A  wish. 

"I  wish  I  had  such  and  such  a  thing,"  is  often  expressed 
in  Irish  by  some  such  form  of  phrase  as  "  Alas  that  I  have 
not  got  it !"  the  word  5011  being  generally  used  as  the  nega- 
tive particle,  dp  cpuaig  gan  peaca  'n  riiaoip  0511m  ! 
"I  wish  I  had  the  shepherd's  pet!"  (Here  ap  cpuai$, 
"  it  is  pity"  =  "  alas :"  agum  is  used  to  denote  possession, 
with  its  verb  understood — Idiom  31 :  and  the  word-for-word 
translation  is  "it  is  pity  not  the  pet  of  the  shepherd  with 
me."  Q  Ohio  gan  mé  am'  abaillin,  "I  wish  I  were  an 
apple"  ("O  God,  I  not  an  apple" — or  "in my  apple.") 

42.  One  noun  asserted  of  another  by  cd. 

When  one  noun  is  asserted  of  another  (or  of  a  pronoun)  by 
the  verb  cd,  in  any  of  its  forms,  it  requires  the  aid  of  the 
preposition  a  or  ann,  'in,"  and  of  one  of  the  possessive 
pronouns,  giving  rise  to  a  unique  and  extremely  curiouí 
idiom.  Thus  "I  am  a  man,"  if  expressed  in  Irish  by  cd, 
will  be  (not  cámé  peap,  but)  cámé  am' peap,  which  is 
word  for  word,  "I  am  in  my  man. "  bí  cúpa  at>' pgían 
agup  mipe  am  peoil,  "be  thou  the  knife  and  I  the  flesh." 
(lit.  "be  thou  in  thy  knife  and  I  in  my  flesh").  Oecoill 
agup  t)anann  bo  bi  1  n-a  m-bamcíéeapnaib,  "Bechoill 
and  Danann  who  were  princesses"  ("who  were  in  their  prin- 
cesses") :  íp  pedpp  éipean  mile  uaip  nd  cupa,  cuip  a 
5-ctíp  50  b-puil  cd  ao'  pig  no  aO'  ppionnpa.  "  he  is  better 
a  thousand  times  than  thou,  even  supposing  that  thou  art  a 
king  or  a  prince"  (cuip  a  5-cdp,  "  put  in  case"  =  "  suppose" 
or  "although"):  pagaib  na  baome  btíp,  cuib  aca  'n-a 


134  IDIOMS.  [part  rv. 

n-ósdnaib,  asur  cuit>  aca  'n-a  pean  óipigib,  "  men  die  (( re- 
ceive death :'  Idiom  3),  "  some  of  them  (cuib  aca :  Idiom 
37)  as  youths,  and  some  as  old  men"  ("some  of  them  in 
their  youths  and  some  of  them  in  their  old  men.")  Q  t)hia, 
gan  mé  am  abaillin  !"  "  would  God  that  I  were  an  apple  !" 
("  O  God  without  me  in  my  apple !"). 

Even  when  one  thing  is  not  directly  asserted  of  another, 
this  use  of  the  preposition  and  the  possessive  is  extremely 
common  in  Irish.  Gdimpe  am'  cobla,  "I  am  asleep"  ("I 
am  in  my  sleep"):  b'éipig  ma  peapam,  "he  scood  up"  ("he 
arose  in  his  standing")  :  mipe  am'  aonap,  "myself  alone" 
("myself  in  my  one  person"):  clanna  Lip  ma  5-ceacpap, 
(the  four  children  of  Lir)  ("  the  children  of  Lir  in  their 
four-persons"). 

The  preposition  ann  is  used  with  ca  without  any  governed 
noun,  to  denote  existence  in  general ;  as  acd  aon  t)ia 
amtím  ann,  there  is  only  one  God  ;  here  the  ann  in  the 
end,  which  has  no  representative  in  the  translation,  means 
"in  it,"  i.  e.  in  existence.  Sometimes  this  ann  answei's  very 
nearly  to  the  English  "  here,"  or  "  there  ;"  as  ip  cú  acd  ann 
"it  is  thou  who  art  in  it — who  art  in  existence  — who  art 
there." 


43.  Differences  between  ip  and  cd. 

There  are  several  differences,  as  to  the  manner  of  application, 
between  ip  and  cd. 

1.  Ip  is  a  simple  copula,  and  is  used  to  predicate  one  thing 
of  another,  or  to  connect  an  attribute  with  its  subject ;  as 
ípmé  an  c-plige,  an  pipmne,  agup  an  beaca,  "  I  am  the 
way,  the  truth,  and  the  life." 

But  if  existence  in  connection  with  place  is  to  be  predicated 
of  the  subject,  cd  is  used;  as  cd  mé  a  m-baile  aca  cliac, 
I  am  in  Dublin  :  an  palb  cii  ann  pm  ?  wert  thou  there  ? 

If  an  adjective  is  to  be  predicated  of  a  noun,  either  ip  or 
cd  may  be  used  : — ip  bpeag  an  lá  é,  or  cd  an  Id  bpeag, 
" it  is  a  fine  day,"  or  "the  day  is  fine." 

2.  Ip  connects  one  noun  or  pronoun  with  another,  as 
predicate  and  subject  dh'ectly,  and  without  the  aid  of  any 
other  word ;  as  ip  peap  mé,  I  am  a  man.  But  cd  cannot  do 
this  without  the  aid  of  the  preposition  1  or  inn  and  the 
possessive  pronoun,  as  already  explained  in  last  Idiom ;  as  cd 
mé  am'  peap,  I  am  a  man  ("I  am  in  my  man.'',) 


PART  IV]  IDIOMS.  135 

3.  Ip  expresses  simply  that  a  person  or  thing  is  eot  and 
implies  nothing  more.  But  when  the  assertion  is  made  by 
cd,  there  is  often  something  more  implied  than  is  contained 
in  the  direct  assertion — the  idea  that  the  person  or  thing 
has  not  always  been  so — has  come  to  be  so,  &c.  Thus,  if  you 
say  to  me  ip  peap  é,  your  assertion  means  nothing  more  than 
that  "  he  is  a  man" — not  a  woman  or  a  coward,  &c.  If  we 
see  a  figure  approach  in  the  dark,  and  that  after  looking 
close  you  find  it  is  a  man,  your  correct  phraseology  is,  ip  peap 
é,  by  which  I  understand  you  to  mean  "  it  is  a  man" — not  a 
woman,  or  a  beast,  or  a  ghost. 

But  if  you  say  to  me  ca  pé  'n-a  peap  ("  he  is  in  his  man"), 
here  I  take  you  to  mean  a  very  different  thing — that  he  is 
now  a  man,  no  longer  a  boy,  grown  up  to  be  a  man.  If  I 
were  speaking  of  a  person  as  if  he  were  a  mere  boy,  and  that 
you  wished  to  correct  this  false  impression,  the  proper 
phraseology  would  be,  ca  pé  'n-a  peap. 

But  though  this  idea  of  an  implied  change  is  often 
contained  in  an  assertion  made  by  cd,  it  is  not  always  so  ;  as 
ni  b-puilacc  aon  'Oiaarhdm  ann,  aca  'n-apiop-ppiopaib, 
there  is  only  one  God  alone,  who  is  a  pure  spirit :  here 
the  last  assertion  is  made  by  cd  though  there  can  be  no 
change. 

4.  Cd  is  used  with  05  to  denote  possession  (Idiom  43)  ; 
ip  is  used  with  le  to  denote  ownership  (Idiom  44) ;  in  these 
two  applications  the  two  verbs  cannot  change  places. 

Cd  may  indeed  be  used  with  le,  but  the  idea  conveyed 
is  not  "belonging  to,"  but  "being  favourable  to:"  Oo  bi 
Golup  leo  "  (Eolus  was  with  thetn"^),  does  not  mean  that 
they  were  the  owners  of  Eolus  (which  would  be  the  meaning 
if  ip  had  been  used),  but  that  "Eolus  was  favourable  to 
them  " — "  was  on  their  side." 

5.  Cd  is  used  with  the  Irish  words  for  cold,  heat,  hunger, 
&c,  as  in  Idiom  36;  as  cd  ocpap  opm,  hunger  is  in  me,  I  am 
hungry :  here  ip  cannot  be  used. 

6.  When  the  comparative  of  an  adjective  is  used  as  in  the 
following  sentences,  either  verb  will  answer  : — ip  paiúbpe  é 
nd  mipe  or  cd  pé  mop  paiobpe  nd  nnpe,  he  is  richer 
than  I. 

But  when  the  superlative  is  employed,  ip,  not  cd,  must  be 
used:— ip  é  ip  peap  ip  paiobpe  pan  búicce  é,  he  is  the 
richest  man  in  the  country. 


APPENDIX. 

Additional  Examples  of  Declensions. 


FIRST   DECLENSION. 

bpeac,  a  trout. 


Singular. 

.N.  bpeac. 
G.  bpic. 
D.  bpeac. 
V.  a  bpic. 


Plural. 
bpic. 
bpeac. 
bpeacaib. 
a  bpeaca. 


FOURTH   DECLENSION. 

Ceine,  afire. 

Plural, 
cemce 
cemeab. 
cemcib. 


Singular. 

N.  ceme. 
G.  ceme. 
D.  ceme. 


SECOND   DECLENSION. 

Cop,  afoot. 
N.  cop.  copa. 

G.  coipe  cop. 

D.  coip.  copaib. 

THIRD    DECLENSION. 

pigeabóip,  a  weaver  ;  masc. 

N.  pigeabóip.  pijeabóipiée. 
G.  pigeaOópa.  pigeabóip 
D.  pigeaOóip.  pigeaOóipib. 

Ocaip,  a  father;  masc. 
N.  acaip.         aicpe,  aicpe^ 

aca. 
G.  acap.  aicpeac. 

D.  acaip.         aicpeacaib. 

(TTIácaip,  a  mother,  and 
bpdcaip  or  beapbpdcaip,  a 
brother,  are  declined  in  the 
same  way.) 

bliaoam,  a  year ;  fern. 
N.  bliaóam.     bliaoanca. 
G,  bliaona.       bliaban. 
D.  bliaóam      bliaóancaib. 

amm,  a  name. 
N.  ainm.  an  manna. 

G.  ainme,anma.  amnann. 
D.  amm  anmannaib. 


Gmtn,  a  little  bird. 
N.  émín.  émínioe. 


G.  éinfn. 
D.  éinfn. 


émín. 
éinímb. 


FIFTH    DECLENSION. 

Ldnama,  a  married  couple, 
N.  lanama.       lánaiima. 
G.  Idnarhan.     Idnaman. 
D.  Idnamam.    lánaiimaib. 

Irregular  Nouns. 
5  a,  a  spear. 
N.  5a,  50c.    5001,   gaeca, 

gaoice. 
G.  gai,  gaoi.  50c,  gaecaO, 
gaoiceab. 
D.  5a,  501.     5001b,  seacai 
5001010. 
Cp6,  a  hut,  asheepfold, 
N.  cpó.         cpaoióe.cpóic' 
cpó. 
cpaoioib,    cpc 

cib. 
a  cpaoice, 
cpóice# 


G.  cpó. 
D.  cpó. 

V.  a  cpo. 


Sliab,  a  mountain. 


N.  pliab. 
G.  pléibe. 
D.  pliab. 


pléibce 

pléibceab. 

pléibcib. 


