U.   : 


i^^A 


D  UXA*B-£>0-~^ 


^v  l% 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE 

THE  THEBAID  OF  STATIUS 
No.     90. 


CAMBRIDGE  UNIVERSITY  PRESS 

C.  F.  CLAY,  Manager 

LONDON   :  FETTER  LANE,  E.C.  4 


■''•■  '■ 

>; 

-: 

Uj.ji 

1 

V 

í'í' 

NEW  YORK  :  THE  MACMILLAN  CO, 

BOMBAY       \ 

CALCUTTA  L  MACMILLAN  AND  CO.,  Ltd. 

MADRAS       j 

TORONTO    :    THE   MACMILLAN  CO.   OF 

CANADA,  Ltd. 
TOKYO :  MARUZEN-KABUSHIKI-KAISHA 


iAtVíU'GFl£ÍSfcB8ftRV'EÉt 

1    .     J3f.  ÚH  ■ 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE 


THE  THEBAID  OF  STATIUS 


THE  IRISH  TEXT 

EDITED  FROM  TWO  MSS.  WITH  INTRODUCTION, 
TRANSLATION,  VOCABULARY,  AND  NOTES 

BY 

GEORGE  CALDER,  M.A.,  B.D.,  D.Litt., 

LECTURER  IN  CELTIC   IN  THE   UNIVERSITY  OF  GLASGOW 


Ualmity  •*  Glasgow 
Celtic  CUm  Library 


CAMBRIDGE 

AT  THE  UNIVERSITY  PRESS 
1922 


PRINTED  IN  GREAT  BRITAIN 


MAR 

CHUIMHNEACHAN 

AIR 

MAC  GUAIGÍN 


PREFACE 

TN  the  month  of  July  1910,  the  late  Mr  E.  C.  Quiggin  of 
-*-  Cambridge,  in  the  course  of  a  tour  through  the  Highlands, 
spent  a  week-end  at  the  Manse  of  Strathfillan.  On  that  occasion 
he  spoke  frequently  of  the  Gaelic  MS.  of  Statins  in  the  Advo- 
cates' Library,  as  being  the  last  great  MS.  still  unpublished.  He 
urged  me  to  undertake  the  publication,  and  to  make  known  my 
intention  forthwith.  I  acted  upon  his  suggestion,  and  soon  after 
I  proceeded  to  transcribe  the  MS.  In  the  month  of  July  the 
following  year  Professor  Mackinnon  began  to  print -a  text  and 
translation  of  the  MS.  in  the  Celtic  Review,  No.  26,  and  continued 
to  issue  further  instalments  till  No.  38  was  reached,  June  1915, 
the  year  of  his  death.  Two  more  instalments  were  published 
and  then,  at  No.  40,  the  Celtic  Review  was  discontinued.  By 
this  time  the  MS.  up  to  E.  40a35,  line  3191,  had  been  printed. 

In  the  meantime,  feeling  that  Professor  Mackinnon's  work  on 
Statius  was  not  likely  to  hold  the  field  permanently,  I  continued 
working  at  the  text  as  opportunity  offered ;  and  soon  after  the 
cessation  of  the  Celtic  Review  a  text  and  translation  were  com- 
pleted by  me  and  laid  aside,  the  war  rendering  futile  all  hope 
of  immediate  publication. 

I  have  now  the  pleasure  of  expressing  my  deep  gratitude  to 
the  Carnegie  Trust  who  have  promised  a  liberal  grant  for  the 
production  of  the  book,  the  generous  intention  on  their  part 
being  to  secure  the  Editor  against  financial  loss ;  and  a  further 
result  being,  as  is  hoped,  to  provide  the  student  with  a  suitable 
class-book  on  Middle  Irish. 

The  Editor  at  the  outset  had  in  view  an  edition  of  the  text 
and  translation  concluding  with  a  list  of  the  more  difficult 
words.  But  having  regard  to  the  fact  that  a  dictionary  of 
Middle  Irish  is  not  yet  offered,  and  that  all  the  well-known 


viii  PREFACE 

texts  containing  a  complete  vocabulary  are  now  long  out  of 
print,  the  Editor  has  endeavoured  to  supply  the  immediate 
needs  of  teachers  who,  like  himself,  wish  to  introduce  their 
students  to  a  knowledge  of  Middle  Irish. 

I  take  the  opportunity  of  acknowledging  my  obligations  to 
Dr  Dickson,  Keeper  of  the  Advocates'  Library,  for  his  great 
kindness  in  allowing  the  MS.  to  be  deposited  for  my  use  in  the 
Library  of  Glasgow  University  over  an  extended  period. 

G.  C. 

September  1922. 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

INTRODUCTION xi 

Where  and  how  Eg.  was  written;  the  date  of  Eg. 
later  than  e. j  description  of  e. j  errors  of  e. ;  e. 
not  the  original  ms.  of  the  translation;  e.  a  profes- 
sional work;  e.  the  work  of  two  scribes;  marginal 
notes  by  scribes;  gap  in  e.  ;  portion  of  text  for  each 
scribe;  can  the  scribes  be  located?;  general  educa- 
tion at  the  time  of  e. ;  latin  text  of  e. 

AUTHORITIES  QUOTED xx 

GAELIC  NOTE  FROM  Eg xxii 

CORRIGENDA xxiv 

TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  ■  TEXT  AND  TRANSLATION  .  2 

VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 320 


INTRODUCTION 

Where  and  how  Eg.  was  Written. 

The  note,  which  appears  with  its  translation  on  pages  xxii  and 
xxiii,  was  placed  by  the  scribe  of  the  MS.,  Egerton  1781,  British 
Museum,  hereinafter  written  Eg.,  immediately  after  the  Finit 
Amen  of  the  text.  It  lets  in  a  flood  of  light  upon  the  circum- 
stances under  which  the  MS.  was  written.  The  scribe  did  not 
maintain  himself,  or  pay  for  his  food  and  lodging;  but  like  the 
old  poets  on  a  free  circuit — saorchnairt — he  passed  from  house 
to  house  an  honoured  guest  of  the  patrons  of  learning.  No 
doubt  the  monasteries  were  at  this  period  the  great  publishing 
houses  of  MS.  literature;  but  proof  is  found  here  that  side 
by  side  with  the  ecclesiastical  system  the  old  educational 
methods  represented  by  the  filidh  still  retained  a  hold  upon  the 
population. 

The  Date  of  Eg.  later  than  E. 

The  date  of  the  original  translation  from  the  Latin  is  in  the 
early  Middle  Irish  period.  The  above-mentioned  note  to  Eg. 
gives  the  date  of  that  MS.  as  1487  a.d.  Another  version  now  in 
a  very  fragmentary  condition,  T.C.D.,  H.  2.  7,  closes  at  p.  460 
with  the  words:  Finit.  Anno  Domini  M.ccc.LXXix.  Obviously 
the  Edinburgh  MS.  is  older  than  Eg.  for  the  following  reasons 
among  others:  The  dislocation  at  the  end  of  p.  12  (line  998  of 
the  printed  text)  is  repeated  in  Eg.;  but  the  words  Ticead  a 
dodranig,  which  were  probably  at  first  a  penn  gles  to  fill  a  space 
in  the  Edinburgh  MS.,  are  now  incorporated  in  the  Eg.  text. 
Again  acco-son  1385,  a  peculiar  form,  is  common  to  both  mss. 
Further  the  Eg.  MS.  omits  many  unimportant  details,  as  doubt- 
less the  scribe  intended  to  economise  space.  Examples  of  these 
omissions  maybe  found  in  the  footnotes  of  the  text,  e.g.  line  272. 
On  the  other  hand  there  are  additions  in  the  Eg.  MS.  added  as 
the  story  became  more  familiar,  in  parts  that  seemed  to  lack 

62 


xii  INTRODUCTION 

clearness  or  interest,  e.g.  1041-1051,  1059,  1062-1065,  4801- 
4810. 

In  the  language,  aspiration  almost  always  a  sign  of  approxi- 
mation to  the  modern  period,  while  rarely  marked  in  the 
Edinburgh  MS.  is  present  wherever  possible  in  Eg. 

The  intention  of  saving  space  is  not  only  the  cause  of  many 
contractions  and  ingenious  compendia  but  the  reason  for  a  much 
more  drastic  method. 

Eg.  omits  parts  of  common  words  without  giving  any  sign  of 
contraction,  e.g. :  fo?'delud,  fordelugud  E.  4512;  dorchudh,  dor- 
chachad  E.  4540;  dvoimacha,  drolmanacha  E.  1273;  7  oraidh- 
sium,  o  raraid-siwm  E.  4888. 

In  not  a  few  instances  these  devices  to  save  space  in  Eg. 
render  the  true  reading  of  the  MS.  highly  problematical. 

Description  of  E. 

The  Edinburgh  MS.,  hereinafter  printed  E.,  is  catalogued 
Advocates'  Library  Gaelic  mss.  vm,  Kilbride  collection,  No.  4. 

It  is  a  vellum  MS.,  9  in.  by  12i  in.;  or  to  take  the  written 
part  only,  the  MS.  is  from  6^  to  7  in.  broad,  and  from  10  to 
10^  in.  long;  and  it  is  written  in  double  columns,  except  folio  8, 
which,  being  a  half-folio,  contains  a  single  column  only. 

The  MS.  is  in  a  fairly  good  state  of  preservation.  The  first 
page  is,  however,  illegible  owing  to  damp  and  exposure  through 
lack  of  cover.  Some  letters  at  the  right-hand  lower  corner  of 
the  verso  have  been  eaten  away  by  mice.  The  writing  is  through- 
out clear  and  good. 

The  Errors  in  E. 

Mistakes  are  not  numerous.  A  few  have  been  corrected  by 
the  professional  corrector,  e.g.  127,  863.  These  are  printed  in 
round  brackets  (additions  by  the  Editor  are  printed  in  square 
brackets).  Other  errors  remaining  uncorrected  in  the  MS.  are 
capable  of  explanation. 

Either  the  scribe  had  more  than  one  MS.  before  him  (which 
is  unlikely),  or  he  was  copying  from  a  MS.  containing  marginal 
notes,  some  or  all  of  which  he  adopted  into  the  text.  This 
would    sometimes   result    in    a  combination  or  fusion  of  two 


INTRODUCTION  xiii 

readings,  e.g.:  imarro  dobai-sium  4546,  would  result  from  imar 
robai-sium,  and  imar  dobai-sium;  cid  'ma  cidii  1249,  from  cid 
cii,  and  cid  'ma  cii;  cindnim  G64,  from  cinnim,  and  cindim. 

A  much  larger  class  of  errors  suggests  almost  conclusively 
that  the  scribe  often  wrote  to  dictation,  v.  under  Nasalisation 
in  Vocab.  The  phrase,  a  ri  a  dei  ritsu  1353  (possibly  spoken,  a 
ri  adeirim  ritsu)  was  felt  to  be  a  difficulty  by  the  scribe  of  Eg., 
who  wrote  simply,  ar  na  deibh  ritsa.  Cini,  for  cáini,  Eg.  1249, 
may  also  be  so  explained. 

Lastly  as  the  scribe  himself  was  not  permitted  to  correct  the 
MS.  he  had  just  written,  that  being  the  duty  of  the  corrector, 
one  may  more  than  suspect  that  in  some  instances  of  error  he 
hastily  covered  up  his  tracks  by  writing  an  explanation  in  the 
text  immediately  after  the  error,  e.g.:  don  ulad  sin  no  so  1220; 
dealbh  an  muntuirc  no  an  minituir  4826,  delbh  na  minadure 
Eg.;  arna  tregdad  dosan  dosam  4398,  Eg.  om.\  anuauas  Eg.  3144. 

E.  not  the  Original  ms.  of  the  Translation. 
It  is  clear  from  the  MS.  itself  that  E.  was  by  no  means  the 
original  of  the  Gaelic  translation. 

1.  Previous  marginal  readings  and  explanations  are  in  E. 
taken  into  the  text,  e.g.:  daig  isinn  immelbordaib  int  shrotha 
sin  robid  a  hait  7  a  hadba  185;  7  robad  scith  lim  scur  don 
chathugud  sin,  mani  thairmiscdis  i  n-urchur  3263;  7  is  eiside 
cetduine  risar-cumdaigead  múr  na  Teibi  ar  tus...  849-852;  cf. 
2670. 

2.  The  language  is  in  part  archaic.  Def.  art.:  in  cluichi  cain- 
teacha  sin  2589;  the  dual:  isinn  immelbordaib  int  shrotha  sin 
185;  the  neuter  gender:  ni  hurchar n-imroill  tuc  3769.    V.  Vocab. 

These  old  forms  are  not  numerous,  and  might  owe  their  place 
in  the  text  to  the  archaic  tastes  of  the  various  scribes.  But 
when  the  verbs  are  taken  into  account,  the  case  for  the  greater 
antiquity  of  the  MS.  becomes  immeasurably  stronger.  The  de- 
ponent verbs  are  numerous,  and  deeply  imbedded  in  the  MS. 
The  deponent  is  a  regular  feature  of  Old  Irish  but  tends  rapidly 
to  disappear  in  the  Early  and  Middle  Irish  periods. 


INTRODUCTION 


E.  a  Professional  Work. 

It  is  explicitly  stated  in  the  above-mentioned  note  to  Eg.  that 
the  scribe,  if  not  strictly  non-professional  in  status,  was  dependent 
on  the  liberality  of  patrons  for  his  subsistence.  There  are,  on  the 
other  hand,  many  indications  that  the  scribe  of  E.  was  one  of 
the  regular  scribes  of  a  monastery.  Besides  those  already  men- 
tioned, the  MS.  itself  by  its  ruling  and  its  general  finish,  its 
well-formed  capital  letters  and  its  artistic  crosses,  claims  its 
origin  in  the  scriptorium  as  the  work  of  skilled  hands  there — 
work  too  which  had  been  long  in  ecclesiastical  keeping. 

E.  the  Work  of  Two  Scribes. 

E.  was  begun  by  two  scribes  simultaneously,  and  a  space  was 
assigned  for  the  work  of  the  first  scribe.  The  -ma  of  domeanma, 
with  which  the  verso  of  folio  8  ends,  is  repeated  on  the  first 
page  of  the  next  folio  (line  1351  of  printed  text).  The  calcula- 
tion was  wrong  to  such  an  extent  that  one  folio,  8,  consists  of 
a  single  column  only,  and  about  half  a  column  on  the  verso  is 
ban — a  blank  space.  There  is  a  break  of  four  lines  at  the  close  of 
the  story  of  the  necklace,  line  827;  and  after  uada  e,  line  833, 
a  further  break  of  two  lines.  What  was  the  intention  for  these 
breaks  does  not  appear,  unless  the  scribe  wished  to  occupy  more 
space.  There  is  no  writing  on  these  breaks.  But  on  the  blank 
space  it  is  different.  This  space  was  a  favourite  ground  for  penn 
gles  pen-trying — the  obiter  dicta  of  the  scribes  ranging  from 
pointless  remarks  to  compositions  or  quotations  suggestive  of 
great  poetry.  One  scribe  contents  himself  with  writing  penn 
gles.  Another  sighs  for  the  drink  of  barley-whey,  the  light  re- 
fection that  refreshed  the  labours  of  his  six-hour  day.  Another 
invokes  the  son  of  Mary  the  Virgin,  and  signs  himself  Fergus 
O'Fergail.  As  his  handwriting  and  that  of  the  first  hand  are 
similar,  Fergus  is  probably  the  first  scribe.  One  well-known 
poem  looks  like  a  charm ;  and  the  longest,  whether  original  here 
or  not,  is  the  work  of  one  who  was  no  stranger  to  the  poetic  art. 

No  marginal  crosses  are  placed  opposite  the  work  of  the  first 
hand. 


INTRODUCTION  xv 

E.  Marginal  Notes  by  Scribes. 
P.  5  (on  top  margin)  [the  alphabet]  Amail. 
*  (Lower  margin)  Is  bal  dobeir  Dia  for  mc  ngha  is  bal  dobeir 
snidhim  for  inc  is  gar  nad  nigar...  [illegible]. 

P.  13  (lower  margin): 

Misi  féin,  gidh  bé  me, 

Mase  gin  gur-be  mo  les, 

Truagh  gan  sinne  bel  ar  bel. 

/  myself,  yea,  even  me, 

Though  not  for  good  to  me  or  grace, 

'Tis  sad  we  are  not  face  to  face. 
[cetera  desunt — on  right-hand  corner  of  the  verso  eaten  away 
by  mice]. 

P.  16  (notes  on  blank  space) : 

1.  Ni  hairccet  fint  fochmen  forruph  foriut  ruphai  sul  taisecc 
aduth...di  air  antar  agaid  can  airccit  acht  cu  nguaire  gluntar. 

Cf.     Ni  hairget  finn  fochmen  forut  foridrme : 
fochmen  .i.  focuma  nó  fuban  no  fuba.  O'Dav.  No.  857. 

It  is  not  white  silver  that  sets  a  wound  on  thee... 

2.  Ni  heasbaid  an  bán-sa  a  ndeiread  na  duilleoigi  acht  a 
easbaid  ar  na  comlanachad. 

This  blank  space  at  the  end  of  the  leaf  is  no  need  save  the  need 
of  it  to  be  filled  up. 

3.  Ní  deiread  do?n  thongs  féin  mur  frith  in  meag-eornu  sin 
anois. 

It  is  no  end  to  my  misery  unless  that  barley -ivhey  is  found 
noiv. 

4.  A  fhir  oir  sin,  a  fir  oir, 

Ni  handso  teaccait  do  doimh. 
As  eadh  ader  rind  in  scath 
Connach  tainecc  trath  inn  oir. 
Hi  craind  sin  ni  fuaim  croind, 

c 

Fuaim  a  etaigh  re  taebh  bfboind. 

coill 

Ma  sren  docluine  isin  cbill 
Adbrad  cinn  in  Spirutt  naim. 


xvi  INTRODUCTION 

Inmain  bund  sin,  inmain  band, 
Dotelccac?  do  nim  anull. 
O  dogeibeath  ghres  ngeal  ngrinn, 
Nochar-herad  le  fer  fhinn. 
0  man  of  gold  there,  0  man  of  gold, 
It  is  not  here  that  thy  associates  come. 
This  is  what  the  Shade  says  to  us 
That  the  age  of  gold  hath  not  come. 
In  those  trees,  no  sound  of  a  tree 
Is  the  sound  of  its  garments  beside  the  ground. 
As  for  the  sigh  thou  may  est  hear  in  the  wood 
It  was  uttered  by  the  mouth  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 
Dear  in  melody  is  that,  a  dear  strain 
That  was  sent  from  heaven  down  here. 
Since  it  was  accomplishing  its  white  clean  work, 
It  could  not  be  rejected  by  a  holy  man. 
[There  is  another  long  line  at   the   foot  of  p.  16,  but  the 
writing  is  so  illegible  as  to  yield  no  sense.] 

P.  19.    Venn  gles  and  so  pen-trying  here. 

P.  29  (upper  margin) : 

Uch  monuaron,  uch  monuar. 

Gidh  gearr  o  Domnach  gu  Luan, 
Is  girra  bis  ri  na  nell 
Ag  denam  treiu.  go  ma  truagh. 
0  my  sorrow,  0  my  sorrow, 
Though  soon  from  Sunday  till  the  morrow, 
E'en  sooner  will  the  cloudy  King 
The  strong  to  abject  weakness  bring. 
[A  later  and  poorer  hand  and  the  ink  is  faded.] 

P.  29  (on  a  strip  of  binding) : 

A  Dhé  7  a  Muire  is  mór  an  bhuile  phleite  sin  dobhi  ar 
Liógurgms  a[c]  c&oinead  a  tsentacharain  miththapcw£/&  ag 
tabhairt  ar  Ghrégaibh  bheith  ag  milliud  a  n-oir  7  a  n-indmusa. 

0  God  and  0  Mary!  great  is  that  spiteful  madness  that  was 
upon  Lycurgus  as  he  mourned  his  hapless  infant,  compelling  the 
to  destroy  their  gold  and  their  treasure. 


INTRODUCTION  xvii 

P.  31  (upper  margin) : 

Is  mor  an  magadh  do  Gregaib  ar-miWset  da  maithus  7  da 
maoinaib  ar  son  leiniph  big. 

A  great  reproach  to  the  Greeks  is  all  that  they  destroyed  of 
property  and  treasures  for  the  sake  of  a  little  child. 

[A  long  marginal  entry  at  the  foot  of  p.  31  in  a  different  hand 
is  now  almost  invisible.] 

P.  32  (upper  margin) : 

Is  maith  an  beidm-ceast  sin  dobhúaíl  Alcidámus  ar  Chapaneo- 
bhus  mór  mac  Tairsis  gan  bhuidheachas  do  fen. 

Good  is  that  cestus  blow  which  Alcidamas  gave  to  great 
Capaneus  with  no  thanks  (i.e.  without  effort)  to  himself. 

[The  hand  is  good,  but  there  are  misspellings.] 

P.  36  (upper  margin)  : 

Mhic  Maria,  a  Mhuri,  foir  orum, 

Fergus  ó  Ferguil. 
0  Son  of  Mary,  0  Mary,  help  me, 

Fergus  O'Fergail. 

P.  45  (upper  margin) : 

Is  mithabaidh  ano  fhoraire  sin  dorinnedar  na  Tiabhandaidh 
ar  na  Gregaibh  7  gan  mosglac?  doibh  pfein  as  ccolladh  no  gur- 
marb[tha]. 

Ill-fated  was  that  watch  which  the  Thebans  set  upon  the  Greeks 
seeing  they  themselves  liad  no  awakening  out  of  sleep  till  they  were 
killed. 

P.  48.    Comortus  andso  se  fer  na  leit[h]  sec^a  so  hios. 

The  rivalry  here  of  the  six  persons  in  the  half  past  this  below. 

Gap  in  E. 

After  folio  22,  between  pp.  44  and  45,  lines  3547-3892  of 
this  edition,  there  is  a  gap  where  two  folios  have  been  lost. 
This  gap  corresponds  to  Thebaid  IX.  280 — X.  75 ;  Egerton 
230a26— 236a16;  T.C.D.  H.  2.  7  (now  1298),  pp.  457a— 460b. 


xviii  INTRODUCTION 

Portion  of  Text  for  each  Scribe. 

The  first  scribe  wrote  the  text  down  to  folio  5  verso,  column  2, 
line  41  ina  aiscid  sin  (line  795  of  printed  text).  Then  hand 
No.  2  begins.  The  transition  is  marked  with  a  single  cross 
similar  to  those  that  follow.  Hand  No.  2  continues  to  the  end 
of  the  verso  of  the  single  column  folio,  p.  16  (line  1351  of  the 
printed  text).  Here  hand  No.  1  resumes  with  the  syllable  -ma 
at  the  beginning  of  folio  9,  and  continues  to  the  end  of  folio  22. 
At  this  point  two  folios  are  lost.  After  the  gap  the  MS.  is  con- 
tinued in  hand  No.  2  from  is  andsin  (line  3892  of  printed  text)  to 
the  end.  This  concluding  part  contains  all  the  marginal  crosses 
except  the  single  one  where  hand  No.  2  began  at  line  795. 

Thus  the  marginal  crosses  are  distributed  as  follows:  one  on 
p.  10,  one  on  p.  35,  six  on  p.  36,  one  on  p.  37,  and  a  few  from 
p.  45  to  the  last  page  on  which  there  are  four. 

Can  the  Scribes  be  Located  ? 

Noteworthy  in  E.  is  the  inf.  in  -b-  where  -g-  is  regular.    The 
following  instances  of  verbs  in  -igim,  fut.  -eoch-,  occur  with  -b-: 
do  lesbugud  1146,  cf.  4760  Eg.  do  lesugud 
creachtnubad  1149  Eg.  creachtnugud 

ca  ndithubadh  3953  Eg.  aca  dithugud 

rathubad  4072  Eg.  rathugud 

ag  daingniubad  4101  Eg.  ac  daingniubad 

ag  dluthabad  4102  Eg.  aca  ndluthugud 

agad  grennubadh-sa  4376    Eg.  agat  grennugud-sa 
can  airiubad  4402  Eg.  can  airiugud. 

This  peculiarity  is  found  only  in  the  second  hand,  pp.  11-16, 
45-54. 

Again,  unpalatalised  -b-  and  -f-  are  expressed  by  -u-,  e.g.  ua 
hairdri  uar  gasraid  332.  This  peculiarity  is  common  in  the 
work  of  the  first  hand,  rare  in  that  of  the  second.  Both  these 
peculiarities  in  spelling  would  occur  readily,  if  written  to  the 
dictation  of  a  reader  speaking,  as  is  probable,  in  the  dialect  of 
Munster. 


INTRODUCTION  xix 

General  Education  at  the  Time  of  E. 

In  an  age  which  witnessed  the  publication  in  MS.  form  of 
Merugud  JJilix  maicc  Leirtis,  more  than  one  version  of  Togail 
Trói,  the  Pharsalia,  the  JZneid,  and  the  history  of  Alexander 
as  well  as  the  Thebaid,  one  is  curious  to  get  a  glimpse  of  the 
general  state  of  education  among  the  Gaelic-speaking  literary 
class.  Happily  the  ban — the  blank  space — offered  a  field  where 
scribes  (and  possibly  others)  might  give  free  expression  to  their 
own  sentiments  as  distinguished  from  the  rigid  copying  of  the 
text.  The  entries  seem  to  show  that  the  scribe  could  give  a 
brief  and  adequate  resume  of  the  situation  in  good  Gaelic.  Two 
poetical  compositions  are  set  down,  the  one  indifferently,  the 
other  well.  These  indications  of  general  culture,  so  far  as  they 
go,  are  as  good  as  one  has  any  reason  to  expect. 

If  we  compare  the  language  of  these  entries  with  the  text, 
the  former  appears  to  be  much  more  modern  than  the  latter, 
and  does  not  greatly  differ  from  the  language  of  Keating.  This 
fact  would  go  to  show  that  if  the  entries  are  authentic,  the 
language  of  E.  was  already  old  when  the  MS.  was  written. 

The  Latin  Text  of  E. 
The  Latin  Edition  of  Statius  referred  to  or  quoted  is  that  by 
Alfredus  Klotz,  in  the  Teubner  Series.  The  excellent  vocabulary 
of  proper  names  at  the  end  of  that  edition  renders  a  new  list  of 
proper  names  superfluous.  There  is  abundant  reference  through- 
out the  edition  of  Klotz  to  the  various  families  of  MSS.  of  the 
original  Latin.  The  translation  of  the  Latin  into  Gaelic  is  how- 
ever very  free;  and,  in  the  opinion  of  Professor  Phillimore,  it  is 
not  possible  to  say  with  certainty  to  what  family  of  Latin  mss. 
that  particular  MS.  belonged  from  which  the  translation  into 
Gaelic  was  made. 


xx     AUTHORITIES  QUOTED  OR  REFERRED  TO 

Acall.  Accallamh  na  Senorach,  ed.  Stokes,  Iriscbe  Texte,  iv. 

Mm.  Irish  JEnad,  Irish  Texts  Soc,  vol.  vi. 

Aisl.  Aislinge  Meic  Conglinne,  ed.  K.  Meyer,  London,  1892. 

Alex.  Die  Geschichte  von  Philip])  und  Alexander,  Iriscbe  Texte,  m. 

A.U.  The  Annals  of  Ulster,  edd.  Hennessy  and  MacCarthy,  Dublin,  1887. 

Aur.  Auraicept  na  n-Eces,  ed.  Calder,  Edinburgh,  1917. 

C.  K.  Meyer's  Contributions  to  Irish  Lexicography. 

C.C.  In  Cath  Catharda,  ed.  Stokes,  Irische  Texte,  rv. 

Cor.2  Anecdota  from  Irish  MSS.,  vol.  iv. 

Cor.  Tr.  Cormac's  Glossary,  Translated  by  O'D.,  ed.  Stokes. 

c.s.  Common  speech. 

Din.  Dineen's  Irish-English  Dictionary. 

Erin.  The  Journal  of  the  School  of  Irish  Learning,  Dublin. 

Fel.2  Félire  Oengusso,  ed.  Stokes,  Henry  Bradshaw  Soc,  1905. 

Fian.  Fianaigecht,  ed.  K.  Meyer,  Dublin,  1910. 

Fis  Ad.  Fis  Adamnain,  Irische  Texte,  I. 

Gor.  The  Martyrology  of  Gorman,  ed.  Stokes,  London,  1872. 

H.B.  A  Gaelic  Dictionary,  ed.  E.  Macdonald,  Heme  Bay. 

Hy.  The  Irish  Hymns,  Irische  Texte,  i.;  Thes.  Pal.  n. 

LL.  The  Book  of  Leinster,  E.I.A.,  Dublin. 

Laws.  Ancient  Laics  of  Ireland,  ed.  Atkinson,  Dublin,  1901. 

L.  U.  Leabhar  na  H-Uidhri,  E.I.A.,  Dublin,  1870. 

Lism.  Lives  of  Saints  from  the  Book  of  Lismore,  ed.  Stokes. 

McA.  MacAlpine's  Gaelic  Dictionary. 

McB.  MacBain,  Etymological  Dictionary. 

Metr.  Metrical  Glosses,  Bezzenberger,  Beitráge  xix. 

M.R.  Cath  Muige  Rath,  ed.  O'Donovan,  Dublin,  1842. 

Ml.  The  Milan  Glosses  on.  the  Psalms,  Thes.  Pal.  i. 

O'Br.  O'Brien's  Irish-English  Dictionary,  Dublin,  1832. 

O'C.   On  the  Mann.      O'Curry,    On  the  Manners  and   Customs  of  the  Ancient 

Irish,  1873. 

O'Cl.  O'Clery's  "Irish  Glossary,"  Rev.  Celt.,  iv,  v. 

O'D.  O'Donovan's  Supplement  to  O'Beilly's  Dictionary. 

O'Dav.  O'Davoren's  Glossary,  Archiv  fur  Celt.  Lex.  n. 

O'Mulc.  O'Mulconry's  Glossary,  id.  i. 

O'B.  O'Beilly's  Irish-English  Dictionary. 

Ped.  Pedersen's  Vergleichende  Grammatik  der  Keltischen  Sprachen,  Got- 

tingen,  1913.' 

P.H.  Passions  and  Homilies  from  the  Lebhar  Breac,  ed.  Atkinson. 

P.  O'C.  Peter  O'Connell's  MS.  Dictionary,  T.C.D. 

R.C.  Revue  Celtique,  Paris. 

S.G.  Scottish  Gaelic. 

S.R.  Saltair  na  Rami,  ed.  Stokes,  Oxford,  1883. 

Songs  of  Summer,  ed.  K.  Meyer,  London,  1903. 

Sg.  The  St  Gall  Glosses  on  Priscian,  Thes.  Pal.  i. 

St  Mol.  The  Birth  and  Life  of  St  Moling,  ed.  Stokes,  London,  1907. 

Str.  Strachan's  Stories  from  the  Tain,  Dublin,  1908;  Selections  from  the 

Old  Irish  Glosses,  190L 

The.  Táin  Bó  Cuailnge,  ed.  Windisch,  Irische  Texte,  v. 
Thes.  Pal.   Thesaurus  Palaeohibemicus,  edd.  Stokes  and  Strachan,  Cambridge, 

1901. 
Thur.  Gr.  Handbuch  des  Alt-Irischen,  Bud.  Thurneysen,  Heidelberg,  1909. 

Triads.  The  Triads  of  Ireland,  ed.  K.  Meyer,  Dublin,  1906. 

Trip.  The  Tripartite  Life  of  Patrick,  ed.  Stokes,  London,  1887. 

TSh.  Three  Shafts  of  Death,  ed.  Atkinson,  Dublin,  1890. 

T.T.1  Toqail  Troi,  ed.  Stokes,  Calcutta,  1882. 

Wb.  The  WUrtzburg  Glosses,  Thes.  Pal.  i. 

Wi.  Windisch's  Wórterbuch,  Irische  Texte,  i. 


GAELIC  NOTE 

Eg.  253a  20— 253b  33 


^.    fZ*u*A  f  (a{0*j**  íl  &*^   fl*.  &>.fl~*.    jb.s'3* 


&Awv«í 


W*L 


xxii  GAELIC  NOTE        Eg.  253*20— 253b33 

1% /TILE  bliadan  7  .cccc.  -j  secht  mbliadna  agus  cethra  .xx.aís  ^ 
-^*-1-  in  Tigerna  in  bliadain  roscribad  in  lebarjsa/*]  isin  bliadain 
cetna  testa  O  Raighil%$  .i.  ToirrdhelbacA  mac  Seairc,  7  isin 
bliadain  cetna  áomarhad  clann  I  Ruairc  .i.  Tigerna?i  7  BWa?i 
ruadh  .i.  Tigeman  dojmarbad  le  clainn  Mic  Diarmada  -j  le  A-e. 
Muinntirj-Eolais  a  fell  7  Brian  domarbad  le  mac  I  Ruairc  .i.  re 
hEogha?!  mac  FeidhlimtJte  mic  Donnchaid  mic  Tigernain;  -j  isin. 
bh'oo'ain  ceina  domarhad  Tige?*nan  dubh  mac  Donnchai'aV;,  caech 
Tigernain  le  O  Domnaill  .i.  re  hAedh  ruadh  O  Domnaill,  7  isin 
bh'aaain  cetna  dobrissedh  (col.  /3)  caislen  I  Ruairc  .i.  Feidlimid 
mac  Donnchaid  le  O  Domnaill  7  le  clainn  I  Ruairc  -j  isin 
bh'adain  cetna,  dogabudh  ClocA  Docha-huachtair  le  slicht  Do?n- 
naill  Bain  I  Raighil%/t  -j  me  fein  Diarmaid/  Ba  C&thal  mac 
Parthalain  doscribh  in  leabar-sa  .i.  mac  Fingin  mic  Fomthe  mic 
Fergail  mic  Partalain  7  a  tigh  Fingin  doscribad  leth  in  lebair-sa 
.i.  a  Doire  Casain  -|  a  tigh  mic  Briain  Tella^A-Echach1  doscribad 
in  cuid  ele  de  .i.  a  tigh  arosa  .i.  Feidlúimid  mac  Taidhg  oig  mic 
Taidhg  móir  -7  ar  iniss  Eocinam  docrichnuighedh  e  i^npardain 
re  feil  Catrina;  1  G  is  litir  Domnaig  annsa  bh'aa,ain(sin]  -j  S_  is  •  £>« 
nuimiroir,-]feile  mic  Tomais  mic  Fergias  mic  Tomais  udh  Tigerna 
a  Tellach-Echach  re  linn  in  lebcuV-sia  dosgribad';  7  isin  n-aimsir 
cetoa  dobi  da  espoc  a  n-espoicdecW^(  Cille  Moire  .i.  Cormac  mac 
in  espuic  MegsamraoTfcain,  7  Tomás  mac  Ainntriu  Megbradcw^A, 
1  gach  fer  dibh  'ga  rada  gur+b  e  fen  is  espoc  and ;  7  Felim  mac 
Donnchaidh  mic  Tigernain  is  0  Ruairc  re  linn  na  n-espoc  sin, 
■7  Sean  mac  Toirrdelbljaigh.  mic  Seain  is  0  Raighil%|i  annsan 
aimsir  sin  ;  7  annsa  bliadain  c^etoa  domarbad  O  Mailitechlainn2 
.i.  Laighnech  0  Mail^echlainn  le  Conn  mac  Airt  I  Mailiieachlainn. 
Et  bennachq  De  ar  anmain  inhti  dosgribh  in  lebar-sa.  Et  dobi  ] 
cogad  iáir  Magsamradhain3  7  O  Raigail%A  .i.  Sean  0  Raig^iilligq 
isin  bliadain  ceina  sin,  -j  cogad  ele  \dir  slicht  Taidhg  I  Ruairc 
-j  rla. 

1  A.  U.  1487,  p.  302.  s  lb.  p.  320.  s  lb.  p.  308. 


GAELIC  NOTE  xxiii 

rilHIS  book  was  written  a.d.  1487,  and  in  the  same  year 
-L  died  O'Reilly,  to  wit,  Turlough,  son  of  John;  and  in  the 
same  year  were  slain  the  sons  of  O'Rourke,  to  wit,  Tiernan 
and  Brian  Roe,  to  wit,  Tiernan  was  slain  by  the  sons  of 
MacDermot  and  by  Muintir-Eolais  in  treachery,  and  Brian 
by  a  son  of  O'Rourke,  to  wit,  by  Owen,  son  of  Felim,  son  of 
Donough,  son  of  Tiernan;  and  in  the  same  year  was  slain 
Tiernan  Duv,  son  of  Donough  Blind-eye  Tiernan  by  O'Donnell, 
to  wit,  by  Hugh  Roe  O'Donnell;  and  in  the  same  year  was  de- 
molished the  castle  of  O'Rourke,  to  wit,  Felim,  son  of  Donough 
by  O'Donnell  and  by  the  sons  of  O'Rourke;  and  in  the  same 
year  the  fortress  of  Lough  Oughter  was  taken  possession  of  by 
the  race  of  Donnell  Ban  O'Reilly  and  by  myself,  Dermot.  It 
was  Cahal  MacFarlane  that  wrote  this  book,  to  wit,  son  of 
Fineen,  son  of  Foirithe,  son  of  Ferral,  son  of  Farlane;  and 
half  of  this  book  was  written  in  the  house  of  Fineen,  to  wit,  in 
Derry  Casan,  and  the  other  part  of  it  was  written  in  the  house 
of  the  son  of  Brian  of  Tullyhaw  to  wit  the  mansion  house, 
to  wit,  of  Felim,  son  of  Teige  Og,  son  of  Teige  Mór;  and  it  was 
finished  on  the  Island  of  Inishannon  upon  Thursday  during  the 
feast  of  St  Catherine.  And  G  is  the  Dominical  Letter  in  that 
year  and  S  the  Golden  Number.  And  the  hospitality  of  the 
son  of  Thomas  the  son  of  Fergus  son  of  that  Thomas  lord 
of  Tullyhaw  during  the  time  when  this  book  was  written. 
And  at  the  same  period  there  were  two  bishops  in  the  bishopric 
of  Kilmore,  to  wit,  Cormac,  son  of  the  bishop  Magauran,  and 
Thomas  son  of  Andrew  MacBrady,  each  one  of  them  alleging 
that  he  himself  is  bishop  there ;  and  Felim,  son  of  Donough, 
son  of  Tiernan  is  O'Rourke  during  the  period  of  those  bishops, 
and  John  son  of  Turlough  son  of  John  is  O'Reilly  at  that  time. 
And  in  the  same  year  was  slain  Ua  Mael-Shechlain,  to  wit, 
Laighnech  Ua  Mael-Shechlain,  by  Conn  son  of  Art  ua  Mael- 
Shechlain. 

And  may  the  blessing  of  God  rest  on  the  soul  of  him  that 
wrote  this  book.  And  there  was  war  between  Magauran  and 
O'Reilly,  to  wit,  John  O'Reilly,  in  that  same  year;  and  another 
war  between  the  descendants  of  Teige  O'Rourke,  etc. 


CORRIGENDA 

I.    TEXT 

Line  60  anti;  71  sencoicer;  133  Durson;  160  inte;  161  no  go;  194  arsin; 
195  amach;  204  ua  cheatharairdib ;  211  trena  tuathmeara  or  trenthuamara ; 
225  sochenelach  ;  228  occa  tuargai»  ;  279  co  radluthaig;  286  contudusstis  ;  311 
co  croithed ;  318  coimecur ;  354  lenwut  Eg. ;  368  piseda ;  508  muirneach ;  557 
Oeniusa;  571  hindtamlaig  ;  602  gloraair  na  eras ;  619  uaimnach  or  imuamnach ; 
643  do  muirn;  654  a  ndenad-son  ;  698  adbulthondsolus;  741  Asa  haithli ;  p.  50, 
top,  Eg.  186h  9;  853  airm  ilfeebair;  925  cor-ben;  949  7  a  n-airm;  998  laneacht- 
ach;  1020  mac;  1057  dochuingebaind ;  1078  antan;  1120  ant  indlead ;  1146 
lesubugitrf  E.,  lesugud  Eg.;  1159  roindis  ant  mad  a  tugadh  int  sleag ;  1175  co 
n-armfogrugud ;  1208  isin  sliab  n-alaind  ;  1224  an  uair;  1249  cid  ima  cini  Eg.; 
1282  concraitheadk ;  1284  Teibi  coma  samalta  Eg.;  1314  imluaidis  ;  1375  na 
carad  cumtha  sin;  1409  da  indsaigid  Eg.  ;  1511  iartoin  Eg. ;  1534  Ampiaraim; 
1582  ind  ingen ;  1644  dachaithead ;  1718  gaimscédach  Eg. ;  1719  uair  rop  i 
Semile;  1742  tesbach  in  talman;  1834  ar  in  muir;  1983  i  nn-a[i]msir;  2108  da 
ra-dermaitius  tu;  2163  cein  co  nn-eirig  in  ri;  2221  taeblasamuin  E.,  Eg.;  2281 
bunadcenel;  2403  i  nn-a[i]msir;  2483  cosaigthi ;  2576  co  rosti;  2908  contorch- 
radar;  2976  dochurn  a  longphuirt ;  3042  mallamertnech  =  mallmertnech;  3044 
co  rob  e;  3067  each  conair  i  concingtis;  3076  romearaig;  3091  i  sleasaib  saereh- 
land;  3134  comtis  crithnaigthi ;  3137  co  linait;  3177  do  coscur  cathbuadach; 
3333  'ma  cend ;  3447  fhiuir  Eg.;  3451  i)in  =  ind  uromuin;  3496  ferbruige  Eg.; 
3562  co  dur  dasachtach;  3573  dei  in  rnara;  3599  is  garb  gne  do  ghnuisi ;  3644 
a  mac  samla;  3674  gaiscedacb  ;  3676  ar  letradh  a  luirighi ;  3711  comdis  fiiuch; 
3732  Eg.  dimsach  I.  diumsacb ;  3744  ferrde ;  3748  co  tenn  tomaithmech  aca 
timsugud;  3817  derbbairdedba;  3839  airdhena ;  3848  dara  sarugud ;  3861  arna 
n-oirlech ;  3893  onoracha ;  3977  ferrdi ;  4099  a  n-echrada ;  4167  i  ndingnaib ; 
4212  [mi]na;  4242  ratrascair;  4248  foridhthni  Eg. ;  4319  a  haitib  islib  anaibne  ; 
4447  rac/irith ;  4648  seach  na  Grecu ;  4656  can  techt  an  turns  sin. 

II.    TRANSLATION 

Line  36  a  horned  ever  so  beautiful  cow ;  352  to  him  should  have  fallen  the 
victory  of  it;  466  taking  from  the  cauldron  the  flesh;  698  vast  and  bright- 
waved  ;  765  slime  of  fire  and  of  lightning ;  860  at  every  evil  ye  would  do ;  999 
Tydeus  put  to  flight  and  defeated  ;  1037  till  it  is  weary ;  1208  into  that  beautiful 
olive-clad  mountain ;  1244  the  eagle  that  has  departed  safe  and  sound ;  1314 
what  folly  has  excited  you  ?  ;  1315  and  what  hatred  will  ye  show  ? ;  1375  of  those 
intimate  friends;  1604  the  shepherds... would  follow  himself;  1742  the  heat  of 
the  earth  was  intense;  1831  till  the  common  folk  (can)  go  through  the  wood; 
1857  Strengthen  ye  your  hearts ;  2045  he  got  ready  for  the  sailing  of  his  ship ; 
2163  till  the  king  arises;  2308  of  the  men  of  them  (  =  of  those  men)  that  had 
been  killed ;  2462  Now  that  was  done ;  2485  delete  (?) ;  2548  Capaneus,  on  the 
other  hand,  did  not  accept ;  2576  till  ye  reach  the  fray  of  Thebes ;  2615  a  yell 
and  great  sighs;  2672  and  hard  curved  hurdles;  2772  and  when  they  had  come; 
2818  so  that  it  was  a  warlike  spit ;  2868  by  his  arms  j  3293  and  struck  the  breast ; 
3333  the  rough  hairy  serpents ;  3366  and  a  very  dark  mist  of  sorrow  arose  across 
his  vision ;  3401  as  a  warlike  troop ;  3448  though  they  had  not  seen  her ;  3477 
who  could  redden ;  3532  That  was  natural  since ;  3593  among  the  hidden  head- 
less bodies;  3948  killed  outright;  4167  in  the  very  bright  citadels  of  heaven; 
4173  for  everything  Tiresias  has  told  thee;  4178  and  by  dint  of  valour  they  took 
him  from  them;  4212  if  they  had  not  been  at  once  encompassed  and  starkly 
slain  at  that  same  attack;  4261  if  ye  are  powerful ;  4319  from  the  low  and  joyless 
dens  of  Orcus ;  4419  across  the  gate ;  4437  on  his  beautiful  foreign  horses  ;  4450 
as  if  it  were  falling ;  4574  she  came  forth  towards  those  very  sad  cries  ;  4659  from 
the  angry  women;  4840  the  same  thing  would  be  found  to  be  done  to  them. 


^~«4Íí#w>    í^tUxd   ^  **~^ 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE 
THE  THEBAID 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE 

E.  ia  i  I  Eg.  i73a  i 

Akoile  righ  uasal  oirmuidnech  onorach  rogabh  forlamhus    xe 
1  ferandus  ar  an  ardcathraigh  n-aibind  n-alaind  .i.  Teibh  isin 
nGreic  dar-ua  comainm  Laius,  -\  is  do-sidhe  robo  mac  Eidbip, 
-j  is  on  Eidhip  sin  rocindset  na  da  mac  aildi  oiregda  .i.  Polinices 

5  -j  Etioccles,  -j  is  iat  na  braithri  sin  romarb  a  chele  isin  cathugud 
mor  na  Tiabhanta  -j  na  nGrec  ic  cosnum  righe  na  hardcathrach 
na  Teibhe  do  cechtar  leithi. 

Acht  cena  is  andsin  tainic  ar  menmain  do  Stait  don  airdfilid 
Frangcach   sochinelach   bunadh-indruim   na  Tiabanta,  inrfus  4 

io  rocinset  o  Caithim,  mac  Aghenoir,  *j  is  e  ant  Aighenoir  sin 
rop  airdrigh  na  Tirde  -j  na  Sidoindoine,  *j  is  aice  roui  in  ingen 
sochinelach  dar-ua  comainm  Eoropa,  -j  is  di  tuc  lob  in  gradh 
ndermair,  co  rob  hecin  do  tiachtain  a  richt  tairbh  da  breith 
leis  tar  muinchind  mara  -j  morfaircce.     Et  o  rosiacht  dar  in 

i  s  muir  sin  cu  Cred,  dochuaidh  'na  richt  fen,  -\  rouai  in  ingen  sin 
aige  co  morgradhach,  -j  is  don  ingin  sin  tuc  lop  in  tirfochraicc 
n-adhbul  .i.  tres  primrand  in  betha  do  ainimniugud  uaithi  .i. 
Eoraip. 

Agenoir  immorro  rogabh  fercc  -\  londus  adhbul  -\  toirrsi  mor 

20  o  fuair  esbaid  a  ingine  Eoropa  morgradhaich.  Is  i  immorro 
comairle  dorinne  andsin  Aghenoir,  a  mac  morgradhach  do 
chur  ar  fud  mara  -j  tire  do  iarraidh  a  sheathar  uan  domun,  -j 
is  ed  adbert  ris  (col.  /3),  muna  faghbad1  a  shiair,  can  tiachtain 
aris,  -j  gan  a  fhaicsin  dosum.     Is  andsin  immorro  rosirastar 

25  Caithim  dingnada  in  domain  -j  oilena  ingantacha  na  haibheisi 
moraidhbhle  thimchellas  in  bith,  -j  fuair  mor  do  dhuad  -j  do 
dochar  -j  do  ghaibthibh  mora  ~\  tire  sechnon  in  domain  iter 
muir  -j  tir,  -j  ni  fuair  in  ingin  risin  ré  sin,  ge  r-ces  mor 
d'  imnedh,  -7  is  ed  uadera  sin  nar-fédedh  taidhecht  i  n-aigid 

3oloip  mic  Shatuirnd2,  cend  na  ndee,  a  ghradh  goiti  d'fis  fair. 

E.  is  illegible  on  page  1.    Eg.  alone  is  followed  up  to  Eg.  174a  1,  E.  page  2. 
1  Eg.  fadbbad  2  MS.  Sbatruinn 


THE  THEBAID 

BOOK  I 

A  certain  noble,  revered,  and  honourable  king,  had  assumed 
sway  and  proprietorship  over  the  pleasant  and  splendid  capital 
city  of  Thebes  in  Greece.  His  name  was  Laius ;  and  he  had  a 
son,  Oedipus ;  and  from  that  Oedipus  sprang  the  two  fair  dis- 
tinguished sons,  to  wit,  Polynices  and  Eteocles.  They  are  those 
brothers  that  killed  one  another  in  the  great  war  between  the 
Thebans  and  the  Greeks,  as  they  contended  on  each  side  for  the 
sovereignty  of  Thebes,  the  capital  city. 

Now  at  that  time  it  came  into  the  mind  of  Statius  the  well- 
born eminent  poet  of  the  Franks  to  describe  the  origin  of  the 
Thebans,  how  they  sprang  from  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor,  that 
Agenor  who  was  high-king  of  Tyre  and  Sidon,  and  whose 
daughter  was  the  well-born  maiden  named  Europa.  With  her 
Jove  fell  deeply  in  love  so  that  he  must  needs  go  in  the  shape 
of  a  bull  to  fetch  her  over  expanse  of  sea  and  ocean.  And  when 
he  had  crossed  that  sea  to  Crete,  he  returned  to  his  own  shape, 
and  he  held  that  maiden  in  great  affection,  and  to  that  maiden 
Jove  gave  the  great  reward  that  Europe,  one  of  the  three 
principal  divisions  of  the  world,  should  be  named  from  her. 

As  for  Agenor,  however,  anger,  intense  rage,  and  deep  grief 
took  possession  of  him  when  he  discovered  the  loss  of  his  well- 
beloved  daughter  Europa.  Now  the  plan  Agenor  then  took  was 
to  send  his  well-beloved  son  over  sea  and  land  to  seek  his  sister 
throughout  the  world,  and  he  told  him,  unless  he  found  his 
sister,  not  to  come  again  or  be  seen  by  him.  Then  indeed  Cad- 
mus searched  the  world's  fastnesses  and  the  wondrous  isles  of 
the  vast  ocean  that  girds  the  globe,  and  he  experienced  a  deal 
of  toil,  trouble,  and  perils  of  sea  and  land  throughout  the  world 
both  by  sea  and  by  land,  and  found  not  the  maiden  during  all 
that  time,  though  he  suffered  much  tribulation,  and  for  that  the 
reason  was  that  he  might  not  cross  Jupiter  the  son  of  Saturn, 
head  of  the  gods,  to  make  known  against  him  his  stolen  love. 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i73b  " 

Ocus  o  nach   fuair-sium   a  shiair,  is  i   comairle  dos-rat  ina    ,e 
menmain  trena  ghais,  dul  co  tempall  Apaild,  dei  na  faistine, 
d'  iar[r]aidh  fhessa  -j  eolais  uadha  cuith  a  roiphi  in  ingen. 
Et  is  ed  adbert  Apaill  ris,  gan  a  sirthain,  uair  ni  bfuighbedh1, 

35  acht  eirghedh  amach  amarach  isin  magh  minscothach  maigh- 
reidh  moradhbul  amach,  -)  tseceradh  bó  bendach  bithalaind 
duit  isin  magh  minalaind  sin,  -j  len-sa  hi  nocon-luighe,  -j  in 
baile  a  luighfea,  cumdaigther  letsa  cathair  caomcumdachta 
co  muraib  moraibhle,  -j  co  tigibh  righ[dh]a  rofarsenga,  -\  co 

4ogriananaib  seimidhi  solusglana,  co  mad  cathair  ordain  -j 
oirechtais  na  nGrec  in  cathair  sin,  -\  co  mad  e  a  hainm  .i. 
Boetia  no  Tebae  tre  nertudh  -j  tre  forgill  in  dei  Apaill. 

Koan-sum  andsin,  -j  rogabh  itaidh,  -j  rocuirther  techtaire 
tairisi  uadha  ar   cend   dighe,  co    sithil   alaind    umaidhé   co 

45  n-imdenum  oir  -j  airgit  umpi,  co  huamaidh  adbul  imdorcha 
uai  a  comfogus  do,  ar  lar  fualascaigh  coirneacdai,  -j  tobar 
firalaind  fondfuar  ar  a  lar.  O  rosiacht  an  techtaire  dochum 
na  tibra,  -j  tuc  a  sithil  uan  usci,  as  andsin  tainic  in  naithir 
nemhnach  a  hiarthar  na  huama,  co  ceithri  [174]2  cendaibh 

50  moraidhbhle  fuirri,  -j  co  tri  linaibh  fiacul  in  each  cend  fo  leth, 
-j  co  ndeilbh  torathair  o  hiarthar  co  hoirther.  0  dochonairc 
in  techtaire  os  cind  na  tibraid,  tuc  beim  da  glomraib  a  n- 
aen[fh]echt  cuige,  go  rofagadh  can  anmain  andsin.  0  ropo 
fada  iarum  le  Caithim,  mac  Aghenoir,  roui  a  fer  muinntire, 

55  rofaidhestar  fer  eli  da  muinntir  dochum  na  huama  1  dochum 
in  usque,  1  tuc  i[n]  naithir  in  aradhain  cetna  fair.  Cidh  tra 
acht  coica  oclach  torchair  da  muinntir  amlaidh  sin.  Is  andsin 
roeirigh  Caithim,  mac  Aghenoir,  ~\  roghabh  a  edegh3  -]  rotrea- 
laim  a  arma,  co   mbruth  rniled,  co  feirg  leoman,  co  neimh 

6onathrach  co  dorus  na  huama  da  digail  ar  ari^ti  romarbh  a 
mhuinntir.  Et  o  rainic,  adconnairc  a[n]  nathraigh  ndigfrecra 
ndimoir,  -j  dorinne  sduagh  luib  moir  di  o  iarthar  co  hoirther, 
amal  seolcrand  lunga  lanaidhbhle.  O  'tchonnairc  in  fer  mor 
da  hindsaigidh,  rocathaighset  aram  andsin  co  fuilech  guinech 

65  crechtach  crolinntech  andsin,  -j  torchuir  a[n]  naithir  fadheoidh, 
1  dochuaidh  a  neimh  ar  nemhfni.     Tainic-sium  roime  iartain 

•  >  Eg.  bftíidhbedft  2  p.  88  r.  o.  1.  3  Eg.  ededh 

4 


THE  THEBAID 

And  since  he  found  not  his  sister,  the  plan  he  formed  in  his 
mind  through  his  wisdom  was  this,  to  go  to  the  temple  of 
Apollo,  the  god  of  prophecy,  and  ask  of  him  information  and 
direction  where  the  maiden  was.  And  this  Apollo  told  him, 
not  to  seek  her,  for  he  would  not  find  her,  but  to  fare  forth 
to-morrow  away  on  the  delicately  flowering  level  far-extended 
plain,  "  and  a  horned  ever/beautiful  cow  would  meet  you  on  that 
delicately  beautiful  plain.  Follow  her  until  she  lie  down,  and 
where  she  will  lie  down  let  a  fair-built  city  be  built  by  you, 
with  great  vast  walls,  with  very  spacious  palaces,  and  with  mild 
sollers  bright  with  light,"  so  that  that  city  might  be  the  city  of 
the  pomp  and  assembly  of  the  Greeks,  and  that  its  name  might 
be  Boeotia  or  Thebes,  owing  to  the  power  and  the  oracle  of  the 
god  Apollo. 

Cadmus  remained  there,  and  experienced  thirst;  and  a  trusty 
messenger  was  sent  by  him  for  a  draught,  with  a  beautiful 
brazen  vessel  embossed  around  with  gold  and  silver,  unto  a  vast 
darksome  cave  that  was  near  him,  in  the  midst  of  an  overhanging 
grove,  with  a  very  beautiful  earth-cool  well  in  the  midst  of  it. 
When  the  messenger  had  reached  the  well,  and  dipped  his  vessel 
down  into  the  water,  from  the  back  of  the  cave  there  came  a 
venomous  serpent,  with  four  huge  heads  upon  it,  and  with  three 
rows  of  teeth  in  each  several  head,  and  of  monstrous  shape  from 
tail  to  head.  When  it  saw  the  messenger  above  the  well,  it  at 
once  dealt  him  a  blow  with  its  muzzle,  and  he  was  left  there 
lifeless.  Afterwards  when  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor,  deemed  his 
servant  tarried  long,  he  sent  another  of  his  following  unto  the 
cave  and  unto  the  water,  and  the  serpent  meted  out  the  same 
treatment  to  him.  Nay,  fifty  youths  of  his  following  fell  thus. 
Then  Cadmus,- -son  of  Agenor,  rose,  donned  his  armour,  and  pre- 
pared his  arms  with  a  soldier's  heat,  a  lion's  rage,  and  a  serpent's 
venom,  going  to  the  door  of  the  cave  to  avenge  him  on  the  man 
that  had  killed  his  retainers.  And  when  he  arrived,  he  saw  the 
unspeakable  huge  serpent,  and  it  made  a  great  arched  coil  of 
itself  from  tail  to  head,  like  a  mast  of  a  very  huge  ship.  When 
it  saw  the  great  man  come  nigh  it,  they  fought  together  there 
a  bloody,  wounding,  gory,  blood-dripping  fight  then,  and  the 
serpent  fell  at  last,  and  its  poison  came  to  nought.   Thereafter 

5 


TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i74a  23 

co  tempoll  Apaill,  7  roraidhset  na  dei  ris  ar  do  denum  isin    xe 
moigh  a  r-marbad  an  nathair1 ;  -j  a  silad  in  air  sin  o  f  hiaclaib 
na   nathrach,    roeirgetar   fir   fon   armghaisced    arin    tulaigh. 

7oRothreabh  in  n-uir  roime,  7  docathaighsit  co  feg,  feochair, 
fercach ;  7  romarbh  each  dibh  a  chéle  acht  senj;oicer  nammá ; 
*I  is  lesin  coicer  sin  rochumdaighedh  in  Teibh,  marcen  re 
Caithim,  mac  Aghenoir.  Ba  he  oenta  oiregdha  in  cuiger 
(col.  /3)  sin  .i.  Echion,  rouoi  a[c]  cumdach  na  Teibhe  marsen 

75  re  Caithim,  mac  Aghenoir. 

Cid  tra  acht  rochumdaighedh  in  Teibh  amlaidh  sin  re 
Caithim  mac  Aghenoir,  -|  rouoi  co  soinmech  setach  innte  re 
ré  foda,  co  [fjhuair  doinmed  e  uadheoidh.  Uair  rosoad  e  fen 
1  a  shetigh  a  ndelbaibh  nathrach  co  cend  secht  mbliadan,  noco 

80  tainic  craidhi  na  ndei  forro  uadeoidh,  7  co  roighsit  (p.  2)  inna 
corpaib  fen  iar  sin,  7  is  do  shil  iwnd  fhir  sin  rochinsead  na  rig 
tromglana  Thiabanda  uile,  7  is  da  sil  Eidip  rm'c  Lai,  -j  robai 
in  Lai  hisin  i  forlamus  1  i  fearandas  na  Teibe  fri  re  fata,  -j  is 
do  rothirchansatar  faidi  -j  druidi,  intan  atchifead  neach  da 

85  chlairid,  gu  nach  biad  a  shoegal  ni  bud  f  haiti ;  conid  imi  sin 
donithea  gach  duine  claindi  roberthea  do,  do  mudugid2  uili. 
Is  andsin  darala  oenda  feacht  Edip  mac  Lai  do  breith  don 
morrigain  lochasta,  7  rucad  he  iarna  breith  co  coill  commoir 
comfhaccais,    7    roaithin    a    mathair   gan    a    roalairt    n[a]    a 

9omudugHd2,  acht  a  thocbhail  i  crand  comard  comreid  isi/m 
fhidbaid,  7  rafacbad3  Eidip  amlaid  sin,  7  o  rafacad  he  [a  Eg.] 
senur,  rogab  a  chuideran  noeidean*. 

Atchualaig  immorro  araile  mac  rig,  robai  ar  fogail  7  ar 
dibeirg,  in  geran  sin  na  noidean  arna  cengul  isin   chrund 

95  dar-ba  cowainm  Polipws  airwn  in  gilla  si??.  Tanic  in  fer  sin 
remi  d'  i?idsaigid  na  naidean,  7  adchondairc  in  naidin  isi?m 
eceandail  i  rroibe.  Tucastair  grad  ndermair  do,  -j  rue  leis  e 
da  aileamain  7  da  altrora  amal  mac  mbunaid  do  fen.  Is 
andsin  rogabastair   Polius   rigi   a  thiri  7    a    thalman   fen,   7 

iootucastar  rigdamnacht  a  fheraind  don  mac  roleasaiged  aicci 
.i.  do  Eidip  mac  Lai.     Is  andsin  dorala  don  Eidip  sin  tecmaill 

1  Eg.  anatln-rtc/;  2  E.  mugugud  3  E.  rafachbad 

4  Eg.  a  caiderana  noidhin 

6 


THE  THEBAID 

he  proceeded  to  the  temple  of  Apollo,  and  the  gods  told  him  to 
plough  the  plain  whereon  the  serpent  had  been  killed,  and  from 
the  sowing  of  that  tilth  with  the  serpent's  teeth  men  arose 
under  arms  upon  the  hill.  He  tilled  the  soil  before  him,  and 
they  fought  fiercely,  furiously,  angrily ;  and  each  one  of  them 
killed  the  other  save  a  single  quintette  only,  and  Thebes  was 
built  by  that  quintette  along  with  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor.  That 
quintette  was  an  illustrious  unity,  to  wit  Echion,  who  was  en- 
gaged in  building  Thebes  along  with  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor. 

Well !  Thebes  was  thus  built  by  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor,  and 
he  dwelt  in  it  for  a  long  time  prosperously  and  in  wealth,  till 
ill-luck  found  him  in  the  end.  For  he  himself  and  his  wife  were 
turned  into  serpent-shapes  for  the  space  of  seven  years,  until 
the  heart  of  the  gods  turned  to  them  in  the  end,  and  then  they 
got  back  into  their  own  bodies,  and  of  that  man's  seed  sprang 
all  the  great  and  pure  Theban  kings,  and  of  his  seed  was 
Oedipus,  son  of  Laius.  That  Laius  was  in  the  sovereignty  and 
occupation  of  Thebes  for  a  long  time,  and  of  him  prophets  and 
wizards  had  foretold  that  when  he  should  see  any  one  of  his 
children,  his  life  would  last  no  longer ;  so  that  on  this  account 
it  was  usually  so  done  that  in  the  case  of  every  man-child  that 
might  be  born  to  him,  they  were  all  destroyed.  Then  it  chanced 
upon  a  time  that  Oedipus,  son  of  Laius,  was  born  of  the  witch 
Jocasta  and  after  his  birth  he  was  carried  to  a  very  great  wood 
near  by,  and  his  mother  gave  orders  that  he  should  not  be 
lost  or  destroyed  but  lifted  up  into  a  very  high  and  smooth  tree- 
trunk  in  the  wood ;  and  Oedipus  was  left  thus,  and  when  he 
was  left  alone,  he  sang  his  childish  little  strain. 

A  certain  king's  son,  however,  who  was  engaged  in  plunder 
and  rapine,  that  lad's  name  by  which  he  was  named  was  Polybus, 
heard  that  plaint  of  the  infant  bound  in  the  tree.  That  man 
came  forward  towards  the  infant,  and  saw  the  infant  in  the 
plight  in  which  it  was.  He  conceived  an  exceeding  great  love 
for  it,  and  carried  it  away  with  him  to  be  nursed  and  reared  as 
a  son  originally  his  own.  Then  Polybus  assumed  the  sovereignty 
of  his  own  land  and  country,  and  he  committed  the  government 
of  his  state  to  the  boy  who  had  been  brought  up  by  him,  to  wit, 
Oedipus,  son  of  Laius.    Then  that  Oedipus  chanced  on  one 

7 


E.  2a  28  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  175s 


co  hanbuinidi1  anurlum  for  feachtus  ina  deagaid  si?i  i  cend  a 
athar  Lai,  -j  ni  fhitt'r2  Lai  comad  he  Eidip  tecmad  do,  7  ni 
fhitir2  immorro  Eidip  commad  he  a  athair  Lai  tachrad  do. 

105  Et  bai  each  dib  ac  iarraid  a  sloindti  uar  a  chele,  -j  ni  dearnaid 
neach  dib  a  slondud  da  chele.  Kofhearadar  comlono!  feochair 
feargach  andsin,  7  torchair  a  athair  Lai  la  hEidip  tre  ainbfhis 
1  aneolws. 

Et  rogob  Eidip  fearand  a  athar,  7  tucastair  a  mathair  do 

nochaemchele  chomadais  ar  ngabail  rigi  do,  7  ni  fhitiV-siurn  siw 
cein2  noco  tarla  mewma  na  rigna  Iochassta  ar  [cosaibh  Eg.] 
comnochta  in  rig  .i.  Eidip,  uair  is  amlaid  robadar  -j  toll  tre 
ceachtarde  dib.  Iarfaiges  in  rigan :  "  Cid  rotreththoll  do 
troichthi  ?  "  ar  [s]i  andsiw.    "  Ni  ansa,"  ar  se.   "  Is  amlaid  frith 

115  me  ar  lar  na  fidbaide  i  crund  roarcl  isin  choill,  -j  clo  [a  Eg.] 
cechtar  adam  chois  acom-congbail  isin  chruno7,  -j  nad  fetar 
cia  nom-coraig  ind3  ban  samla  sin.  Acht  romailead  -j  rom- 
altromad  ac  Polipus  amal  mac  do  fen,  -j  nad  fetar-sa  nar-ba 
head  cen  no  gor-hathisiged  and  me,  7  co  n-ebrad  rim  mo  bith 

i2oim  thurcaire  thuilighi  can  fis  m'  athar  no  mo  mathar.  D' 
fiarfaigus  do  Pholipus  nar-fidir  (col.  /3)  sin  indissi  dam  mar 
fuair  me ;  7  as  e  ni  doronnus,  dul  chom  Apaill,  dea  na 
faistine,  7  a  iarfaigid4  de  cait  a  b[f]uigbi»d  m'  athairthir. 
Raidis  Apaill  rimsa  gan  mo  slondud5  do  denam  do  enduine, 

125 -j  in  cetfher  tecemad  dam  and,  comlond  do  chur  ris,  -j  bage- 
bai?id  fis  m'  athar  [-j  fis  mo  mhathar  Eg.]  thrit  sin.  Et  is  e 
cetfer  dorala  cucu?/i  asa  haithli6  sin  .i.  haius  ar  sechron  (no  sech- 
ran)  selga  aeon  chathraig  ac  Potchis,  -j  darochair  limsa  é  mar 
adchualabair  si67."     " Truag  am  sin,"  ar  si  Iochosta,  "robe 

i3otra  in  Lams  sin  th'  athair-siu,  -j  is  misi  do  mathair,  7  is  me 
roaithin  do  chengul  isin  chruna7  gan  da  marbad  ar  met  do 
grada,  7  is  me  rue  in  cethrur  cloi?idi-sea  dit  .i.  Eothiocles 
7  Polenitces,  Ancfoigone  -j  Ismene  an  da  ingin."  "Durban 
da??isa,"  ar  Eidip,  "  geneamai?i,  1  na  migniraa  sin  do  denam 

135  dam,  gid  tre  anfhis  7  aneolus  dorala  iat."     Is  andsin  immorro 

tuc  Eidip  da  da8  laim  i  w-oenfheacht  ceachtar  a  da  shul,  7 

1  E.  anbuinidi     Eg.  anbuiridi  2  Eg.  ni  fhetar...fitir-san  a  ghenel 

3  E.  nom-coraid      Eg.   frith   mhe...adama  cois  a   comceng«Z...amlaidh-sin 

4  MS.  iarfaidig  5  E.  slondug  6  E.asahili  Eg.  asa  haithle  '  Eg.  selgthi... 
dotorchair...si         8  Eg.  a  da 

8 


Theh 


THE  THEBAID 

occasion  after  that  untowardly,  unexpectedly  to  fall  in  with  his 
father  Laius;  and  Laius  knew  not  that  it  was  Oedipus  that  met 
him,  and  no  more  did  Oedipus  know  that  it  was  his  father  Laius 
that  was  facing  him.  And  each  of  them  was  demanding  from 
the  other  hie  name,  and  neither  of  them  would  give  the  other 
his  name.  Then  they  fought  a  fierce  and  angry  duel,  and  his 
father  Laius  fell  by  Oedipus  through  ignorance  and  want  of 
guidance. 

And  Oedipus  took  his  father's  land,  and  on  assuming  sovereign- 
ty espoused  his  mother  as  a  fitting  consort,  and  knew  nothing 
of  that  fact  till  the  attention  of  Queen  Jocasta  fell  upon  Oedipus 
the  king's  naked  feet,  for  thus  they  were  with  a  hole  through 
each  of  them.  The  queen  asked :  "  What  has  pierced  thy  feet  ?  " 
said  she  then.  "  Not  hard,"  said  he.  "  Thus  was  I  found  in 
the  middle  of  a  wood  in  a  very  high  tree  in  the  forest,  with 
a  nail  through  each  of  my  feet  keeping  me  in  the  tree,  and  I  do 
not  know  who  had  placed  me  there  in  that  fashion.  But  I  was 
nursed  and  brought  up  by  Poly  bus  as  his  own  son,  and  I  knew 
not  that  it  was  not  so,  till  I  was  reproached  therefor,  and  I 
was  told  that  I  was  a  bastard  waif,  with  no  knowledge  of 
my  father  or  my  mother.  I  ascertained  of  Polybus  that  he  could 
not  tell  me  how  he  had  found  me :  and  what  I  did  was  to  go  to 
Apollo,  the  god  of  prophecy,  and  to  ascertain  from  him  where  I 
should  find  my  fatherland.  Apollo  told  me  to  make  my  name 
known  to  no  man,  and  to  do  battle  with  the  first  man  that  met 
me  there,  and  I  should  obtain  tidings  of  my  father  and  my 
mother  thereby.  And  the  first  man  that  chanced  to  approach 
me  thereafter  was  Laius,  wandering  in  hunting  near  the  city  of 
Phocis,  and  he  fell  by  me,  as  ye  have  heard."  "  That  is  sad  in- 
deed," said  Jocasta ;  "  that  Laius  was  in  truth  thy  father,  and  I 
am  thy  mother ;  and  it  is  I  that  gave  orders  that  thou  shouldest 
be  bound  in  the  tree  and  not  killed,  so  much  did  I  love  thee ;  and 
it  is  I  that  bore  thee  these  four  children,  Eteocles  and  Polynices, 
Antigone  and  Ismene  being  the  two  daughters."  "  Hard  is  that 
for  me,"  said  Oedipus,  "that  they  should  be  born,  and  that  these 
misdeeds  should  be  done  by  me,  though  it  be  through  ignorance 
and  want  of  guidance  that  they  happened."  Then,  moreover, 
Oedipus  with  his  two  hands  seized  his  two  eyes  at  once,  and 

9 


E.  2b  1 8  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i75b  22 

robean  asa  chind  iat,  arbithin  gu  nnaran-aiced-sum1  neach  ar    xe  ' 
met  a  naire  a  haithli  na  morchol  sin  do  denara  do,  cona 
faictis2  sluaig  na  sochaide  he. 

140  Imthwsa  immorro  da  mac  Eidip  .i.  Eothiocles  -j  Polenices, 
roeirig  tnuth  *j  trenchosnum  eturu  im  rigi  na  Tebe,  gu  nar- 
fhaem  neach  dib  comroind  na  cathrach  na  in  chi?iiuda  d'  aroile 
d'  eis  dallta  a  n-athar.  Ni  thucsad  onoir  na  huaisli  da 
n-athair,  acht  robadar  fein  co  dimnsach  drochaicentach  a[c] 

145  caithim  a  n-atharda  -j  iná  [fh]erai»d3,  -j  adar  le  gach  mac  dib 
ba  he  fen  bid  ri  and 

Dala  immoi-ro  Eidip  ar  sin,  robai  co  dubach  domenmnach  46 
i  n-ua?/ithig4  thalman  gan  rigi   gan  roflaithns  arna  malairt 
-j   arna  mudugnd5  do  fhen.     Is  ana'si?i  dorigne  Eidip  1am- 

isochomairt   moir   -j    [toirsi6    Eg.]   n[d]o[fh]olachta   cosna   deib 
aduathmaraib   iffernaide,    -j    co    Teissifone    cnssin    mbandea7 
n[d]eamnaig  n[d]asachtaig  do  sonrud,  -j  is  ed  so  adrubairt :  56 
"  Roailis  misi,  -j  roaltrumáis  co  ndernes  ulca  imda  ilerda  tre 
t'  aslach  -j   tre  t'  adanugwd8,  co   romarbns   m'    athair   crin 

i55ciana3sta  acin  chathraig  dianaid  comaimn  Foiccida,  -j  rothu- 
ashiciis8  tre  t'  [fh]or[t]ac/<i-su  cesta  doilgi  dithuaslaicthi10  in 
torathair  diar-ba  comaiiim  Spinx,  -j  is  e  in  torathar  si/i  robai 
i  tir  na  Tiabanda,  -j  is  e  rofiarfaigead  do  gach  oen  tecmad  da 
indsaigid11 :  '  Cade  int  anmanaV2  cetharchosta,  dechosta13,  tre- 

ióochosta?'  Et  'vcQiQ  na  tabrad  tuaslucnd14  arin  ceist  do, 
romarbad  sin15  uile  iad,  cei?i  nofeo  ranac-sa16  da  i?idsaigid, 
intan  roba  ac  iar[r]aid  m'  athar,  -\  rofhiarfaig  in  torathar  na 
ceasta  cetna  damsa17,  -j  adrubart-sa  ris  cor-be  in  duine  sin18, 
pair  ceatharchosach  he  ina  naideanntacht  .i.  cona  da19  chois 

165  -j  cona  da  laim  i  n-enfheacht  ac  imluad  dho :  dechosta20 
immorro  [é21  Eg.]  inna  ocuataid22  .i.  -j  ina  ferdac/?i23  (p.  3)  .i.  a  da 
chois  amai?i  aicci  ac  imtheacht,  trechosta  immorro  é  ina 
seanntacht  -j  ina  sheanordacht24  .i.  a  da  chois  -j  a  lorg  aicci  ac 

1  Eg.  cu  nach  faiced  san  2  Eg.  conach  faieidis  é  3  Eg.  an  ferainn 

each  *  Eg.  uamaibh  5  E.  mugugud  6  Eg.  7  toirsi     E.  toirrsi 

7  Eg.  bandei  8  Eg.  tre  h  asloch...tre  todban»udh  9  Eg.  rothuasluigius 
10  Eg.  difhuaslaicthi  u  MS.  rotiarfaidead...indsaigig  12  Eg.  ant  ainmide 
13  Eg.  dochosta  14  Eg  in  té. .  .fuaslucadh  16  nomarbad  son  16  gen  go  ranagus 
"E.rofiarfaid...  Eg.dimsa  18sinow.  19  noidbintacht  .i.adha  20  dochosta 
«1  u  é  22E.  ocuaitaid  Eg.  occviaxlht&id  23  MSS.  ferrdacht  24  Eg.  senoracht 
IO 


THE  THEBAID 

plucked  them  out  of  his  head,  to  the  end  he  might  never  look 
on  anyone  owing  to  the  greatness  of  his  shame  in  consequence 
of  his  committing  those  great  sins,  that  no  hosts  or  multitude 
might  look  upon  him. 

Now  regarding  the  two  sons  of  Oedipus,  Eteocles  and  Poly- 
nices,  envy  and  a  strong  contention  arose  between  them  about 
the  sovereignty  of  Thebes  so  that  neither  of  them  could  allow 
the  other  an  equal  share  of  the  city  or  the  tribe  after  the  blind- 
ing of  their  father.  They  accorded  no  honour  or  distinction  to 
their  father,  but  were  themselves  with  pride  and  ill-nature 
consuming  their  patrimony  and  the  estate ;  and  each  one  of  the 
sons  deems  it  should  be  himself  that  will  be  king  there. 

Now  as  to  Oedipus  after  that,  he  dwelt  gloomily  and  de- 
jectedly in  a  cave-dwelling  of  the  earth,  with  no  kingdom  or 
empire  since  his  mutilating  and  destroying  of  himself.  Then  he 
made  a  great  lamentation  and  an  irresistible  appeal  to  the  dread 
gods  of  hell,  and  to  the  fiendish  mad  goddess,  Tisiphone,  in 
especial,  and  said :  "  Thou  hast  so  reared  and  bred  me  that  I 
have  done  many  diverse  ills  through  thine  instigation  and 
incitement.  I  have  slain  my  decrepit  long-lived  sire  at  the  city 
which  is  named  Phocis,  and  by  thine  aid  I  solved  the  difficult 
insoluble  riddles  of  the  monster  which  was  called  Sphinx,  and 
that  is  the  monster  that  dwelt  in  the  land  of  the  Thebans,  and 
'tis  it  that  used  to  ask  this  of  every  one  that  chanced  to  come 
nigh  it :  '  Which  is  the  four-footed,  two-footed,  and  three-footed 
animal  ? '  And  whoever  could  not  give  it  a  solution  for  the 
riddle,  these  were  all  slain,  until  I  came  to  it,  while  I  was  in  search 
of  my  father,  and  the  monster  asked  the  same  riddles  of  me  and 
I  told  it  that  the  answer  was  man,  inasmuch  as  he  is  four-footed  in 
his  infancy,  to  wit,  as  he  moves  about  with  his  two  feet  and  his 
two  hands  at  the  same  time :  two-footed,  however,  in  his  youth, 
to  wit,  and  in  his  manhood,  to  wit,  having  only  his  two  feet  as 
he  journeys :  three-footed,  however,  in  his  old  age  and  eld,  to 
wit,  having  his  two  feet  and  his  staff  as  he  journeys.  And  when 
ii 


E.  3a  3  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  176b  1 

imthecht.   Et  0  rothaimniges  in7  chesta  sin,  rofersum  comlond    ,e  ' 

170  feig  fuireochair  fearamcwY,  7  torchair  in  tdrathar  de  mm  fadeoid." 
Is  anctein  immorro  adrubaid  Eidip :  "  Is  tre  t'  [f  h]ortacht-su 
7  tre  t'  [fhjoirithin1  dorigmtts8  na  gniina  sin,  7  romarbus  m' 
athair,  -7  rothoirrchius  mo  mathair,  7  is  tre  th'  adandud-su 
robeaniis  mo  rose  leathanglas  lindfhuar  as  mo  chind,  -j  diusig- 

175  siu3  iarum  fich  feirgi  feochraigi  iter  mo  macaib-sea  .i.  Etiocles 
7  Polinices,  co  radluiget  7  co  radian-scaileat4  in  flaithiits,  cona 
roibi  ceandacht  no  coramw5  ac  neach  d'  araile  dib ;  uair  ro- 
linastair  diummws  -j  drochciall  iat  tresin  n[d]imiad  -j  tresin 
n[d]imicin  tucsad  damsa  ar  mo  beth  dall  dorcha  i  n-uamthig6 

180  thai  man." 

O  'tchualaich  immorro  Tessifone  ina7  briathra-sa  Eidip,  is 
andsin  roeirig  in  Fhuir8  demnach  dasachtach  cona  trillsib  do 
nathrachaib  nemnecha  ima9  ce&nd,  ac  siangail  7  ic  sibsanaig 
7   ic   feadgaire10  7   ac  foluaimnigud  -j   ac  sugud  int  shrotha 

185  tibrechtaich11  teindtigi  dar-ua  comainm  Cosidon,  daig  isinn  90 
immelbordaib  int  shrotha  sin  robid  a  hait  -\  a  hadba.    Is  andsin 
rolingeastair-si  co  dian  deinmnedach  dasachtach  on   t-sruth 
amal  saignen   tincurach   teindtigi,  no  araal    retlaind   luaith 
lasamhuin  na  firmaminti  foluaimnigi,  -|  is  ead-seo  sligi  [a  Eg.] 

botanic  tresna  daescurshluagaib  disciri  dimaine  deamnacda,  7 
tresna  haireachtaib  aduana12  etlaide13  do  anmandaib  batar  in 
ngrianbrogaib14  iffri>id,  co  ragabastair  grain  7  ecla  adbul  iat 
ic  faicsin  a  dreichi  deamnaige  duaibsigi  na  baidbi  bruthmaire 
belldeirgi15  sin.    Et  tanic-si  rempi  arj,m  dar  doriis16  n-urbadach 

195  n-ifrind  ajnach  .i.  dar  Tenair.    Et  o  dariacht,  tanic  fordorchudgó 
dar  dreich  [in  Eg.]  talman  uile  amal  aidchi  cor[gab]17  uaman 
-j  imecla  lucht  nacrich18  7  na  cendadach  rempi19;  -j  tanic-si  ar 
sin  isin  sligid  suaichnid  saineamai7  ar  fanglenátaib20  slebemail 
co  toracht  co  Teib.    Is  ancfein  roeirgedar  cet  nathrach  neim- 

200  neach  naimdidi  com  m[b]eandaib-]  birinib21  ima  cend.  Rosuiged 
7  rosluiged  a  rose  dathach  dubglas  in  n-iwdomain  a  cind  7  a22 

1  Eg.  foirighithin  2  Eg.  doronus  3  Eg.  diusighsi  *  Eg.  rodhluighset... 
scailsed  5  cennas  6  Eg.  uamaid  7  Eg.  na  8  Eg.  Fuir  9  Eg.  uma 
10  Eg.  fedgail  ll  tibraitigi  12  Eg.  adhudbhannda  13  Eg.  etlaidi 

14  E.  ligrianbrodaib  Eg.  a  grianbrogaib  15  Eg.  beildcrcci  16  Eg.  rompi 
ar  dorus  17  Eg.  gur-gab  l8  Eg.  na  crichi  19  Eg.  rompi  20  Eg.  fain 
21  Eg.  berinib  22  Eg.  i  cind  7  i 

12 


THE  THEBAID 

I  had  rede  those  riddles,  we  fought  a  fierce,  wary,  manly  duel, 
and  in  consequence  thereof  the  monster  fell  in  the  end."  Then 
moreover  Oedipus  said :  "  It  is  by  thine  aid  and  help  that  I 
have  done  these  deeds,  both  slain  my  sire,  and  wronged  my 
mother ;  and  through  thine  instigation  I  have  plucked  my  wide 
grey  liquid-cool  eyes  out  of  my  head,  and  thereafter  thou  hast 
awakened  a  fury  of  bitter  rage  between  these  my  sons,  to  wit, 
Eteocles  and  -Polynices,  that  they  have  rent  and  violently  dis- 
rupted the  kingdom,  so  that  the  one  of  them  can  have  no  head- 
ship or  control  of  the  other;  for  pride  and  folly  have  filled  them 
by  reason  of  the  dishonour  and  contempt  they  have  shown  to 
me  because  of  my  living  blind  and  dark  in  a  cave-dwelling  of 
earth." 

Now  when  Tisiphone  had  heard  these  words  of  Oedipus,  then 
the  fiendish  mad  Fury  arose  with  her  locks  of  venomous  serpents 
about  her  head,  puffing,  croaking,  whistling,  fluttering,  and 
sucking  the  welling  fiery  stream  named  Cocytus,  because  upon 
the  borders  of  that  stream  her  dwelling-place  was.  Then  she 
leaped  swiftly  impatiently  madly  from  the  stream  like  darting 
fiery  levin,  or  like  a  swift  star  lighting  up  the  quivering  firma- 
ment ;  and  this  was  the  way  she  came,  through  the  fierce  idle 
and  fiendish  rabble,  and  through  the  weak  and  sad  assemblies 
of  souls  that  dwelt  in  the  gravelly  abodes  of  hell,  so  that  horror 
and  vast  fear  seized  them  as  they  beheld  the  fiendish  dusky 
face  of  that  fiery  red-lipped  scald  of  war.  And  thereupon  she 
advanced  forth  through  Taenaros,  baleful  door  of  hell.  And  when 
she  had  arrived,  thick  darkness  like  night  overspread  all  earth's 
face,  so  that  terror  and  intense  fear  seized  the  people  of  the 
bounds  and  districts  before  her ;  and  then  she  came  by  the  well- 
known  and  excellent  road  on  hilly  sloping  glens,  till  she  arrived 
at  Thebes.  Then  a  hundred  venomous  and  hostile  serpents  with 
crests  and  stings  arose  about  her  head.  Her  coloured  and  dark- 
grey  eyes  were  sucked  and  swallowed  into  the  depths  of  her 
head  and  crown.  Then  she  arose  and  shook  the  venomous  ser- 
pent that  was  in  her  hand  at  the  hosts,  so  that  the  sound  and 


E.  3a  46  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  177*  8 

ceand  mullaich.    Is  andsin  roeirig  -\   rochraith  in  nathraig    re  ' 
nemnig  robai  ina  laim  arna  sluagaib,  cu  clos  a  fogar  -j  a1 
breasmaidm  ua  cheatharjairdib  na  Grecci  .i.  co  sliab  Barnais  118 

205  ar  n-airthiur,  -]  co  sruth  nEorait  iar  n-iarthuv,  -j  co  sliab  n-alaind 
Oeten  iar  ndescert,  7  co  heochairbordaib  Ismos  (col.  /3)  iar 
tuaiscert.  Et  dariacht  si?i  co  deiligthech  derrscaigthech  dermar 
cosin,  ciniud  croda  cosmi??iach  tnudhach  Tiabanwda2,  -]  co  macaib 
ai[d]bli  ailli   Eidip  .i.   Ethiocles  -\   Polinices  co    raerig   fich 

2iomarthanach  -j  im[fh]ormad  adbul  imon  flaithius  iter  na  da 
.       ..  mac  sin  tre  aslach3  Tesifone,  ama/I  da  tharb  trena  tjiuathmeara  131 

■    thnuthacha  ua  chuing  adbail  imfhulaing,  co  raleansat  ~\  co 

ralagaigset4  a  cengail  -j  a  cuibrigi  ac  imchosnum  -\  ac  imthair- 
rif)g  fri  araile. 

215  Imthusa  immorro  na  Tiabanda,  nir-fa3lsatar  imchosnwm  na 
da5  mac  sin  immon  flaithiws,  -\  is  i  comairli  rochi?idset6  andsin, 
rigi  gach  re  mbliaana  do  gach  mac  dib,  -\  cert  crandchair  do 
denum  eturru,  cia  dib  daroised  in  rigi  ar  tus,  -j  dorignead 
amlaid  sin.    Et  rosiacht7  do  Ethiocles  in  rigi  a  cirt  chrandchair 

220  ri  head  na  bliadna  sin,  -j  Polenices  ar  echtm8  1  ar  i??darba  ri 
sin.    0  roci?idead  immorro9  in  chomairli  sin  aci/i  popul  adbul  169 
Ecionda,  rogab  imthnuth  -\  emiltus10  iat  v'\ún  rig  aca  rabatar, 
•j  tanic  sere  -j  sirinmaine  doib  i?md  fir  robai  ar  echtm  -7  ar 
mdarba  uaithib  .i.  Polinices.    Is  anasin,  immorro,  adubairt 

225  araile  fear  soim  saidhbir  so/chenelach  don  chiniud  thromglan 
Tiabanda  gu  nar-ba  choir  don  popul  tren  togaide  fechtasugud 
a  flaithii/sa  iter  na  rigaib  oca  utmalla11 :  "  Oir^is  e  ar  samail-ne,  193 
mar  bis  long  luchtmar  lanadbul  occa  tuargan  o  dib  gaethaib 
condtrardaib  cona12  fitir  cia  gaeth  risa  rachad,  uair  is  adbul  a 

230  imned  -\  a  eccomnart  duind  [a  Eg.]  beith  ua  rigi  -j  ua  rigsmacht13 
in  rig  ac  buileam  .i.  Ethiocles,  [-j]  ua  ta?»ach  -j  ua  tomaitheam  196 
in  rig  araill  .i.  Polinices." 

Dala  immorro  Polinces  mete  Eidip,  robai  ar  sibal  ar  sechran 
sechnon  na  crichi  urairde14  Echionda.    Et  o  rabai15  Polinices  ac 

1  Eg.  i  fogur  7  i  2  Eg.  iai-sin...cinadk...tnuthach  Tiauanda 

3  Eg.  f aslach... tuaithmera  4  Eg.  rolagasait  5  Eg.  dha, 

6  Eg.  issi...rochinnset  7  Eg.  Eosiacht  8  Eg.  ec/ttra  9  Eg.  U 

10  Eg.  emeltus  n  Eg.  reghaib  udmalla  uallacha  13  Eg.  conach 

13  Eg.  7  ua  smacht...ica  fuilmid  14  Eg.  oomairdi  15  Eg.  rouoi 


THE  THEBAID 

crash  thereof  were  heard  throughout  the  four  quarters  of  Greece, 
to  wit,  as  far  as  Mount  Parnassus  in  the  East,  the  river  Eurotas 
in  the  West,  fair  Mount  Oete  in  the  South,  and  to  the  fringed 
borders  of  Isthmos  in  the  North.  And  that  sound,  distinct,  well 
marked  and  very  loud,  reached  the  brave  contentious  envious 
Theban  stock,  and  Oedipus'  large  fair  sons,  to  wit,  Eteocles  and 
Polynices,  so  that  a  lasting  feud  and  intense  mutual  jealousy 
about  the  sovereignty  arose  through  Tisiphone's  instigation 
between  those  two  sons,  like  two  strong,  vicious,  envious  bulls 
under  a  huge  intolerable  yoke,  so  that  they  strained  and 
weakened  their  bonds  and  fetters,  as  they  mutually  strove  and 
pulled  one  against  another. 

Now  concerning  the  Thebans,  they  could  not  endure  the 
mutual  strife  of  those  two  sons  about  the  sovereignty,  and  the 
plan  they  then  adopted  was  that  the  kingdom  should  belong  to 
each  of  the  sons  every  alternate  year,  and  that  a  decision  by  lot 
should  be  made  between  them  as  to  which  of  them  should  come 
to  the  kingdom  first ;  and  it  was  so  done.  And  from  a  decision 
by  lot  the  kingdom  fell  to  Eteocles  for  the  space  of  that  year, 
and  for  so  long  Polynices  should  be  on  adventures  and  in  exile. 
Now  when  that  plan  had  been  decided  on  by  the  vast  Echionian 
people,  mutual  jealousy  and  tedium  possessed  them  at  the  king 
they  had,  and  love  and  lasting  affection  came  to  them  for  the 
man  who  was  on  adventures  and  exiled  from  them,  to  wit, 
Polynices.  It  was^then,  moreover,  that  a  certain  rich  wealthy 
well-born  man  of  the  great  pure  Theban  race  said  that  it  was 
not  right  for  the  strong  chosen  people  to  alternate  the  sovereignty 
over  them  between  the  young  restless  kings :  "  For  this  is  a 
simile  of  us,  we  are  like  a  capacious  very  large  ship  being  beaten 
by  two  contrary  winds  so  that  it  knows  not  with  which  wind  it 
should  go,  for  vast  is  the  suffering  and  the  weakness  thereof  for 
us,  to  dwell  under  the  kingly  rule  and  kingly  authority  of  our 
present  king,  to  wit,  Eteocles,  and  under  the  dread  and  menace 
of  the  other  king,  to  wit,  Polynices." 

As  to  Polynices,  however,  son  of  Oedipus,  he  had  been  on  the 
move   wandering   throughout    the    upland  Echionian  district. 

15 


E.  3b  36  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i77b  15 

235  triall  1  ac  tmdsceadul  ar  echtra  -j  ar  indarba  asa  tir  -]  asa    xe  ' 
tsdmain,  is  anrfsin  immorro  tangatar  imraiti  imda  ingantacha 
ar  mew  mam  don  milid1  sin,  uair  ua  trom  -j  ua  tendiws  mor  leis- 
[s]ium  a  fhat  -j  a  ansadaileacht  co  cend  na  bliadna  sin  noco  320 
roissead  in  rigi  do.     Ua  subach  1  ua  so-me?imnach  e  in  darna 

24ofecht  an  tan  d'  airberead2  da  uidh  -]  da  aire  an  rigi  do  rochtai?? 
do  :  ua  hirnascda3  udmall  a  comairle  in  curad  sin,  uair  ni  fitir  ca 
crich  no  ca  cenel4  isin  domuin  i  cindfedh  a  coimetecht  ri  re5  na 
bliadna  sin  a  n-ingnais  a  tire,  uair  ni  rauatar  meic6  rig  and  no 
rofhlatha  aicci  risa  cindfedh  a  comarle.    Ni  rabatar  didiu  in 

245  tan  sin  araus  na  hoclach  re  hurgairdiugud  seta  na  sibail  acan 
fhir7  sin  re  hed  na  bliadna  sin.  0  rocindestar  (p.  4)  immorro 
Polinices  a  atharda  alaind  aichnid8  da  fhacbail  -|  indsaigid  in 
tire  anaichnig  aneoil9,  is  ed  seo  rogabastair  roirae  ar  fat  na 
Grecci  gartgloine  do  chathrachaib  ifigantacha  Inaich  in  rig10  324 

25oGrecda  sin,  -]  da  bruigib  dathglasa  Dane,  -j  cosin  cathraig 
claincolaig  co  niMeicinib11,  -j  is  andsin  rofhacaib-sium  da  eis 
na  huamancZa  bruthmara  Baichecda  -\  tulcha  togaide  toncZglasa 
na  Tiauanda.   Et  asa  haithli  sin  immorro  tanic-sium  roime  330 
sech  in  sliab  soreid12  soimthechta  Chitheron  -j  sech  cairrgib 

255  mora  michluacha  Sciroin  -]  in  Sciroiw13  hisin  ua  latrano7  Ian-  333  j 
chalma  i  n-aroile  carraic  cocuasta  ar  csetib14  na  conaire,  -j  is  e 
bes  donid,  gach  duine  rodringed15  isin  charraic  sin  rofurailead- 
sum  poccad  a  chos  arm  dume,  -j  intan  na  bid  ac16  pocacZ,  dobered 
lua  do  co  c wired  ri  hed  n-imcian  uada  he,  cein  noco  tanic  Teis 

260  mac  Eig  meic  Neptuin  da  i?idsaig,  co  roibe  ac  i?idmad  a  chos. 
Is  andsin  tucastar  Teis  trentairring  cuici  air,  -\  raathchuir17 
uada  é  isin  muir  moradbail. 

Dala  Polinices  immorro,  tanic-side  reime18  dar19  na  bruigib 
sciamhda  Scillecda,  -]  seach  cathrachaib  tasbgela  insi  comaird 

265comreid20  Corinthon.    Is  andsin21  immorro  tanic  dered  dun  lo  336 
-j  tosach  don  aidchi  co  roergedor  retlanaa  suaichinti22  solusta 

1  MS.  milig  Eg.  tromm...ansagaiZeacht                       2  Eg.  adhered  da  oidh 

3  hernascada  4  Eg.  cinel      5  ...réré      6  Eg.  mic       '  Eg.  fir      8  Eg.  alaind 

aichnid  cm.  9  Eg.  anaichnig  om.  aineol-       10  Eg.  ingantacha  ansuaic/intd/i 

in  righ           u  Eg.  co  mBecinib           12  Eg.  soidhreidh          13  E.  7  in  Chiroiii 

14  Eg.  coitib  "  Eg.  rotegedh         36  Eg.  nnc/i...aca         17  Eg.  roathchuir 

18  Eg.  roime  19  Eg.  tar                      ^0  Eg.  innsi  comairdi  comreidi 

21  Eg.  Is  and  22  Eg.  landa  suaichanta 

16 


THE  THEBAID 

And  as  he  was  proceeding  and  entering  upon  adventures  and 
exile  from  his  country  and  his  land,  many  wondrous  imaginations 
came  into  the  mind  of  that  soldier ;  for  heavy  and  a  great  strain 
he  deemed  the  duration  and  the  discomfort  of  it  to  the  end  of 
that  year  till  the  kingdom  should  fall  to  him.  He  was  glad  and 
cheerful  at  one  time  when  he  would  bring  to  his  mind  and  to 
his  thoughts  that  the  kingdom  should  fall  to  him  :  despondent 
and  unsettled  was  the  counsel  of  that  hero,  for  he  did  not  know 
in  what  region  or  among  what  race  in  the  world  he  would 
establish  his  companionship  during  the  course  of  that  year  out- 
with  his  country,  for  he  had  no  king's  sons  there,  or  great  princes 
with  whom  he  might  take  counsel.  Further,  no  mercenary  or 
warrior  had  that  man  then  to  cheer  his  way  as  he  moved  about 
for  the  space  of  that  year.  Now  when  Polynices  had  resolved  to 
leave  his  fair  and  famous  fatherland,  and  to  .make  for  an  obscure 
and  strange  land,  this  is  how  he  fared  forward,  through  fair- 
meadowed  Greece  to  the  wondrous  cities  of  Inachus,  that  Greek 
king,  and  to  the  green-tinted  farms  of  Danae,  and  to  the  perverse 
and  wicked  city  of  Mycenae ;  and  then  he  left  behind  him  the 
heated  caves  of  Bacchus,  and  the  choice  greenswarded  hills  of 
the  Thebans.  And  after  that,  moreover,  he  proceeded  onwards 
past  the  smooth  easily  traversed  slope  of  Cithaeron,  and  past 
the  great  ill-famed  rocks  of  Sciron.  And  at  that  Sciron  lived  a 
daring  robber  in  a  certain  hollow  rock  at  the  road  meetings. 
And  this  is  a  custom  he  practised,  upon  every  man  that  climbed 
into  that  rock  he  would  enjoin  to  kiss  his  feet ;  and  when  he 
was  not  kissing  them,  he  would  give  him  a  kick  so  as  to  hurl 
him  a  long  distance  away,  until  Theseus,  son  of  ^Egeus,  son  of 
Neptune  approached  him,  and  was  engaged  in  washing  his  feet. 
Then  Theseus  gave  him  a  mighty  pull  towards  himself,  and 
again  hurled  him  from  him  into  the  great  vast  sea. 

Now  concerning  Polynices,  he  fared  forward  over  the  fair 

farms  of  Scyllaeum,  and  past  the  white-walled  cities  of  the  lofty 

level  island  of  Corinthus.    Then,  however,  came  an  end  to  the 

day  and  a  beginning  to  the  night,  and  up  rose  the  conspicuous 

C.  I7  2 


E.  4a  27  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  178»  19 

iwna  haidchi  imdorcha  acgairbi  imman  esca  n-adfuar  n-aigreta.  \e 
Et  rouatar  immorro  eoi?i  -j  ethaide  -j  cethra  caithmecha  in  339 
talman  ina  suan  -|  ina  sirchotlod  co  mmidmedon1  aidchi.    Is 

27oancisi?i  rofalchait  retla  roglana  na  firmaminti  foluamnigi  0 
nellaib  imdorchaib  imdaib  usqidib2,  -\  rohoslaicit  uamanda 
ai[d]bli  acgarba3  Eoil,  ardrig  na  ngseth,  in  tan4  sin  co  rothocaib 
inn  ainbthine  garb  geimreta  a  tuasan  -j  a  tommaithium  os 
aird  tre  chorntroit  na  ngseth  ngarb  ngluair  mbruthach  mbres- 

275  madmandach  dar  bragaid  a  chele  tre  chetharairdib  na  cruiwdi, 
uair  ua  samalta  co   thaidrai[g]tis  -\   co  ngluaisfidis   fraigthi 
fothamla  na  firmai»nnti  asa   sligthib  -j   asa   slaedraigib.     Is  ' 
ancfein  roerig  in  gaeth  ancfeas  dianid  cowainm  Auester  co  350 
hainbthenach  aduathmar,  co  radruit  -j  co  radluthaijf  dorchadu5 

280  ndermair  dar  dreich  thalmim6uile,  co  rachruad-chrithnaigseatar 
snaitheda  saignen7  tened  taidligi  tresin  ndilind  ndifhulaing8 
ndimoir  n-ometa  roferastair  an  uair  sin,  co9  ma  fualraigthi10 
firdoimne  na  coillti  niamda  Neimegda,  -j  co?ndais  locha  Ian-  355 
aidbli  lindfhuara  aird  [-j  inadha  na  hErchaidi  Eg.]  i  crichaib 

285  tirmma  tart-(col.  /3)-mara  Tenair,  co  rolinastar  tolathuile  srotha 
1  sruthana,  co  mbreisdis11  leo  na  feda  -j  fiduada,  con  tudusstis 
leo  na  cairgi  cendgarba  cruaidi  troma  tuinidi.  Acht  cid  tra 
actít  robrisit  feada  -j  fidnemeda  na  Greci  gartglaine.  Rodluigid 
1  rodian-scailit  na12  coillti   croma  craebglasa,  comdar  moigi 

29oreidi  roglana  a  n-inada  da  n-eis.  Ua  hingnad  -\  ua  macht- 
nug^d  mor  re  Polinices  na  slebti  cendmora  cairrgecha  ac 
brisiud  -j  ac  breasmandugwd  risna13  buindeadaib  diana  dileanci 
tictis  ara  trethan  -j  ara  tonc?gail  asna  sleibtib  soiweamail14 
sirardaib  sin.    Ua  hingnad  -j  ua  haduath  mor  leis  da.no  na 

295  treba  -\  na  tigi  -j  na  cethra  caithmecha  craesacha  do  lot 
1  da  lathrugud  tresi?i  fuasnad  ndoninde15  ndermair  sin.  Et  is 
andsin  tanic  remi  Polinices  co  dian  -|  co  dasachtach  gan  sligid 
1  gan  lansoillsi  -j  gan  laneolus.  Ach  cheana  ua  ferrdi  les[s]eam 
duibi  -j  dorchacht  na  haidchi  sin,  uair  ua  hecal  *|  ua  huruamu?* 

1  Eg.  co  mmedhon  2  Eg.  imduibh  uscibh  3  Eg.  acgarba  om. 

4  Eg.  in  tan... chorntroit  om.  5  Eg.  dorchada  6  Eg.  in  talman 

7  Eg.  saidhnenta     8  E.  ndilauing   Eg.  difulaing     9  Eg.  n-ometa  om.  ...co  ma 
10  Eg.  tuehaigthi  ll  Eg.  mbrisdis...co  cumscadhis  12  E.  -scailset  no 

13  Eg.  brisugwd  7  ac  bresmaidm  lesna    14  Eg.  as...soinemla    15  Eg.  doinennta 

18 


THE  THEBAID 

bright  stars  of  the  pitch-dark  bitter  night  about  a  chill  icy  moon. 
And  moreover  the  fowls,  birds,  and  cattle  browsing  the  earth 
were  in  sleep  and  lasting  slumber  till  it  was  midnight.  Then  the 
clear  stars  of  the  moving  firmament  were  hidden  by  clouds  black 
with  many  waters,  and  the  huge  tempestuous  caves  of  Aeolus, 
high-king  of  the  winds,  were  then  opened  so  that  a  rough  wintry 
storm  raised  aloft  its  pursuit  and  threatening  by  the  battling 
together  of  the  rough  pure  furious  winds  crashing  over  one 
another's  necks  through  the  four  quarters  of  the  world,  for  it 
was  like  as  if  they  would  loosen  and  move  the  foundation  walls 
of  the  firmament  out  of  their  courses  and  orbits.  Then  rose 
the  South  wind  named  Auster  with  an  awful  tempest,  and  it 
drove  and  packed  a  thick  darkness  over  all  earth's  face,  and 
threads  of  bright  fire-bolts  keenly  quivered  through  the  in- 
tolerable vast  inestimable  flood  which  poured  down  at  that  time, 
so  that  the  very  depths  of  the  beautiful  Nemean  woods  ran  red, 
and  the  heights  and  places  of  Arcadia  in  the  dry  thirsty  ter- 
ritories of  Taenaros  became  huge  cold  brimming  lakes,  and 
floods  of  water  filled  the  streams  and  rivulets,  so  that  the  woods 
and  forests  were  broken  by  them,  and  the  rough-headed  hard 
heavy  earth-fast  rocks  fell  by  them.  Nay,  the  woods  and  groves 
of  greenswarded  Greece  were  broken.  The  gnarled  green- 
branched  forests  were  rent  and  torn,  so  that  their  sites  behind 
them  were  smooth  very  bright  plains.  Polynices  was  surprised 
and  much  amazed  that  the  huge-capped  craggy  hills  were  break- 
ing and  crashing  before  the  rushing  flooded  waters  that  kept 
coming  in  a  sea  and  in  tumultuous  billows  from  those  grand 
and  very  lofty  hills.  He  wondered  and  was  in  great  fear  besides 
because  the  homesteads,  the  houses,  and  the  wasteful  voracious 
cattle  were  injured  and  destroyed  through  that  stormy  vast 
disturbance.  Then  Polynices  fared  forward  swiftly  furiously 
with  no  path  and  with  no  full  light  or  full  knowledge  of  the  way. 
Notwithstanding,  he  preferred  the  blackness  and  darkness  of 
that  night,  because  he  was  afraid  and  in  terror  of  the  pursuit 
19  2—2 


E.  4b  2i  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  178b  25 

300  les  toir  -J  ti»ol  da  beith  aca  b/'athair  ara  cind  .i.  Ethiocles,     * 
*j    da/?o    ua   ronar   les   gan   lucht   csemsa,  -j   coimidechta1   re 
hurgairdigud    n-imthechta  re  himguiw  -j   re  hiinbualad  'na 
fharrad.    Ua  he  immorro  s&mail  in  t?*enfhir  sin  do  Tiauandaib 
do  sil  calma  Chathim  rm'c  Agenoir  ar  setaib  na  sliged  sin 

305  amal  ^bis  stiuraigi  cona  luing  luchtmair  lanmoir  ar  lar  in 
mara  garbf'huair  gemreta  gan  rind  -j  gan  retlaind  d'  [fh]aiscin2 
re  himluad  n-imthec/íía  a  si??,  acht  seastan  -j  seiseilbi  in  lera3 
lofigaig  lanadbail  'ga  buaidread  -j  'ga  badbrisiud,  cona  fitir  ca 
cuan  no  ca  caladport  cnsa  rachad.    Et  is  andsin  tanic  remi 

310  Polinices,  -j  ua  hi4  tresi  -j  tairpigi  na-imtiged-som5  inn  oidchi 
co  o^ithed  1  co  cwmscaiged  na  railgi  remra6  roardda  ac  tair- 
ring  a  sceith  moir  mileta  tresna  coilltib  clithirdiamraib,  -\  co 
rabrised  na  feda  •]  na  fualascada7  da  ucht  -j  da  urbrumdi  re 
hagairbi  a  imthechta  re  hingargi  na  huaire  sin,  cein  noco 

315  facaid  int  soillsi  suaichnid8  solusda.    Et  is  and  bai  int  [s]oillsi 
sin  isin  tur  rigda  roard  isin  chathraig  dianaid  comainm  Larisa 
annsa  Gi^eic  bic,  ■]  ua9  soillsi  arar-silleastair-sium  anrfsin  lee  381 
logmar  lasamuin  ua  comsolus  la  -j  agaid  bai  i  comecur  in  tigi 
roaird  rigda  sin. 

320  Et  is  andsin  tanic-seowi  remi  'na  rem  roretha  d'  i?idsaigid 
na  cathrach  Larissa,  lam  cle  re  templaib  uaisli  Iunaindi  bata?* 
isi?i  catAraig  uraird  aibind  .i.  Prosincia10,-]  lam  deas  ri  grethlaigib 
lethnaib  (p.  5)  Lerna ;  -j  is  andsin  tanic-siuw  remi  annund  dar11 
doirrsib  urarda  uraibni  oslaicthi  na  cathrach  sin,  -j  rofegastair 

325  ime  urlara  fairsingi12  fiadnacha  na  cathrach  sin.  Et  roleceastair 
a  chorp  cubaid  comfhata  co  hainmeartach  adlesc  re  lar  -j  re 
lantalmain  a  haithli  atchis13  na  haidchi  sin  re  hursaind  in  tigi 
[-]  Eg.]  re  hursaind  na  cathrach  rigda  sin  i  cubachail  chruaid 
cumaing,  -|  rochotail  and 

330      Is  andsin  immorro  tar[r]astair  int  ardri  nasal  airegda,  Adraist,  390 
isin  chathraig  leathangloin  lanalai?jd  i  lLarisa.   Et  ua  he  int 
Adraist   cianaesta   cowaimaerda   sin    ua   hairdri    uar   gasraid 
glanmoir    Grec,   uair    arbithin   is   amlaid    robai    in   ri   soiwi 

1  Eg.  ronair...caemsa  na  eoimeachta  2  Eg.  Ua  i...clo  faicsin 

3  a  sin  Eg.  om.  Eg.  ina  lear  4  Eg.  7  ua  i  E.  7  uathi  5  Eg.  no-imcedh-sium 
«  Eg.  ramra  7  Eg.  fualascaií//í  8  Eg.  tsuaichnid  E.  suaithnid  9  Eg.  ua  hi 
10  Eg.  a  Prosimia,  Z.  .i.         n  Eg.  tar        12  Eg.  fairsenga         13  Eg.  fhaitcis 

20 


THE  THEBAID 

and  the  gathering  his  brother  Eteocles  might  have  awaiting 
him,  and  also  he  thought  great  shame  that  no  friends  or  com- 
panions cheered  his  journey  by  righting  and  smiting  for  one 
another  at  his  side.  Now  this  was  the  likeness  of  that  Theban 
champion  of  the  brave  seed  of  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor.  He  was 
on  the  paths  of  that  way  as  a  steersman  is,  with  his  heavy-laded 
huge  ship  on  the  expanse  of  the  rough  cold  wintry  sea,  seeing 
no  point,  no  star  whereby  to  steer  a  course,  but  the  roar  and 
tumult  of  the  vast  main  full  of  ships,  confusing  and  wreck- 
ing him,  so  that  he  knew  not  what  haven  or  port  of  refuge  he 
should  make.  And  then  Polynices  fared  forward,  and  with  such 
strength  and  vigour  did  he  journey  by  night  that  he  shook  and 
removed  the  thick  lofty  oaks  while  he  drew  his  great  soldier's 
shield  through  the  forests  with  their  secret  shelters,  and  he 
broke  the  woods  and  the  groves  with  his  breast  and  his  bosom 
by  the  roughness  of  his  advance  and  the  urgence  of  that  hour 
until  he  saw  a  conspicuous  bright  light.  And  that  light  was 
situated  in  the  royal  lofty  tower  in  the  city  named  Larissa,  in 
little  Greece ;  and  the  light  which  he  looked  upon  there  was  a 
flaming  precious  stone,  equally  bright  day  and  night,  which  was 
adorning  that  lofty  royal  house. 

Then  he  fared  forward  in  his  course  of  swift  running  towards 
the  city  of  Larissa,  having  the  left  hand  towards  the  noble 
temples  of  Juno  which  stood  in  the  lofty  pleasant  city  of  Pros- 
hymna,  and  the  right  hand  towards  the  broad  marshes  of 
Lerna ;  and  then  he  fared  forward  away  through  the  very  lofty 
and  pleasant  open  gates  of  that  city,  and  he  saw  round  about 
him  the  wide  well-defined  foundations  of  that  city.  And  he 
laid  his  well-proportioned  body  at  full  length  weakly  and  inertly 
along  the  floor  and  the  bare  ground  after  the  anxiety  of  that 
night,  against  the  doorpost  of  that  house  and  against  the  doorpost 
of  that  royal  palace,  in  a  hard  narrow  bed,  and  he  slept  there. 

Then,  however,  the  noble  venerated  high-king,  Adrastus, 
chanced  to  be  in  the  broad  pure  most  beautiful  city  of  Larissa. 
And  it  was  that  long-lived  contemporary  Adrastus  that  was 
high-king  over  the  purely  great  youth  of  the  Greeks.    For  on 

21 


E.  5a  15  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i79b  1 

socenelach1  sin,  *j  bunadchenel  a  mathar  -j  a  athar  Ioib2  mac    ^ 

335  sona  saidbir  sochenelach  Satuirn.   Et  ni  raibe3  imsnim  aireo-  392 
chais4  in  rig  sin  acht  gan  immad  cloindi  aigi  genraotha  da 
ingin  namma,  -j   ua  fiu   maccu  firena  forglidi   na   hingeana 
gleglana  geanmnaidi  sin,  -j  is  ara  n-inmaine  na  n-ingen  sin 
doroindi-simn  idbarta  aidbli  atmara  da  Apaill,  co  n-i?idisead 

340  do  na  fir  risi  fseidfidis  na  hingeana  si».    Et  adrubairt  Appaill 
ris[s]eom  tre  fhirfhaisti?ie  do  denam  do,  coramad  muc  adbul  397 
eccendais  allaid  7  co?nmad  leoman  leatarthach  lanfergach  uad 
cleamnada  do.   Et  nir-thuic  Adraist  in  fhaistine  sin,  -j  ni  mo 
i-othuicsetar  a  fhilid  nachu5  fhir  eolaig. 

345      As  si  sin  immorro  oes  -)  fhuair6  tanic  Tid  trora  trentachrach  402 
mac  Oenis  .i.  mac  rig  cuanrfa  cathbuadach  Calidone,  -\  as  ead 
roiraluaid-side  asa  thir  -j  asa  thalam  cusin  cathraig  cuanda 
coradaifjgin  cetna.    Feacht  n-sen  dodeachaid  d'  fhiadach  -|  d' 
[fh]ianchoscur  ria  derbrathair  uoden  .i.  ri  mac  mnrnech  mor- 

35ogradach  Ioeinius7  .i.  re  Meliager.  Et  darala  doib  tore  adbul 
allaid  robai  ac  inrad8  in  tire  -j  in  talraan  do  marbad.  Et  as  e 
rocet-gonastair  he  .i.  Tid  mac  Oenius,  -j  is  leis  rate9  a  choscur 

I  a  chomaideam  re  Meliager.  Et  tuc  a10  chroiceana7  in  tuirc 
allaid  sin  da  bannlean/ian11  bangaiscea7aica  robai  isiwt  [s]elca12 

355  sin  i.  da  Aithseannda  (no  Aithleannda),  -j  adchonnaic13  immorro 
Tid  sin.  Rof  hiarfaig  da  brathair  .i.  da  Meliager :  "  Cid  ma 
tucais  croiceana"  in  tuirc  isa  cetguine  rocommaidius  dat 
lea?idan  ? "  "Me  da  marbad  -j  da  mudugud14,  -\  is  aire  sin 
thucus  di15."    Asa  haithli  sin  immorro  roerich  Tid  do  chosnn/n 

360  m  chroicind  risin  n-ingin,  -\  rofher-sum  comlund  (col.  /3) 
n-athlum  re  hAthalan»da,  •]  roclaeidead  inn  i?igin  andsin, 
-j  rue  Tid  in  croicend  leis.  0  'dchualaig  immorro  Meleger  in 
gnim  sin,  rogab  fearg  -\  fuasnad  mor  é,  -j  tanig  remi  da  digail 
sin  ar  Thid,  -j  rothoit  Meliager  ra  brathair  amlaid  sin16  .i.  re 

365  Tid,  conid  indsin  rohechtrad  -]  rohindarbad  e  sin17.   Et  darala 

e  isinn  aidchi  gairb  gemreta  cetna  d'  indsaigid  na  cathrach 

1  Eg.  sochinelach     2  Eg.  lop    3  Eg.  roibhi     4  Eg.  ar  oirechus...E.  forgligi 

5  E.  fhilig    Eg.  naid  6  Eg.  uair  7  aeis  7  Eg.  na  Cailidone 

8  Eg.  mnradh  9  Eg.  is  e  rocet-gon  é...is  les  rotbseth  10  Eg.  a  am. 

II  Eg.  do  lenn&iji  12  Eg.  isintelcai  13  Eg.  Aithlentfa  7  o'dconairc 
14  E.  roihiarfaid...mugugud  15  Eg.  7  me...di  e  16  Eg.  dothoit...annsin 
17  Eg.  roec/itraidedh...esen 

22 


THE  THEBAID 

this  account  that  rich  well-born  king  was  thus:  His  father's  and 
mother's  original  stock  was  Jupiter,  Saturn's  happy  rich  well- 
born son.  And  there  existed  no  care  in  that  king's  condition, 
save  that  he  had  not  many  children,  but  only  two  daughters, 
and  these  bright  pure  chaste  daughters  were  worthy  of  upright 
chosen  youths,  and  out  of  affection  for  these  maidens  he  offered 
huge  swollen  sacrifices  to  Apollo,  that  he  might  declare  to  him 
the  men  whom  these  maidens  would  wed.  And  Apollo  told  him 
by  making  to  him  a  true  prophecy,  that  a  huge  rough  wild  pig, 
and  a  ravening  raging  lion,  would  be  his  sons-in-law.  And 
Adrastus  did  not  understand  that  prophecy,  and  no  more  did 
his  poets  or  his  learned  men. 

At  that  time  and  hour,  however,  came  heavy  strongly  ad- 
vancing Tydeus,  son  of  Oeneus,  to  wit,  a  fine  battle-victorious 
prince  of  Calydon,  and  this  is  why  he  had  moved  out  from  his 
country  and  his  land  unto  this  same  fine  strongly  fortified  city. 
Once  upon  a  time  he  had  gone  to  hunt  and  slaughter  deer  with 
his  own  brother  german,  a  dear  and  well-beloved  son  of  Oeneus, 
to  wit,  Meleager.  And  they  had  the  fortune  to  kill  a  huge  wild 
boar  that  was  overrunning  the  country  and  the  land.  The  first 
to  wound  it  was  Tydeus,  son  of  Oeneus,  and  to  him  fe3— tbe 
°"  slaughter  of  it  and  the  vaunt  of  it  before  Meleager.  But  he 
gave  the  hide  of  that  wild  boar  to  his  sweetheart,  a  lady  warrior 
that  was  in  that  hunt,  to  wit,  Atalanta ;  and  moreover  Tydeus 
saw  that.  He  asked  his  brother  Meleager :  "  Why  hast  thou 
given  to  thy  sweetheart  the  hide  of  the  wild  boar  whose  first 
wound  I  vaunted  ?  "  "  It  is  I  that  killed  and  destroyed  him, 
and  therefore  I  gave  it  her."  After  that,  then,  Tydeus  rose  up 
to  contend  for  the  hide  against  the  maiden,  and  he  waged  a 
dexterous  contest  with  Atalanta,  and  there  the  maiden  was 
vanquished,  and  Tydeus  brought  the  hide  with  him.  But  when 
Meleager  heard  of  that  deed,  he  was  seized  with  anger  and 
great  agitation,  and  he  set  out  to  avenge  it  upon  Tydeus,  and 
Meleager  fell  by  his  brother  Tydeus  in  that  way,  so  that  for 
that  he  was  exiled  and  banished.    And  he  chanced  on  the  same 


E.  5b  9  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i8oa  3 

Larissa,  -]  ua  toirrseach  Tid  re  hi??tnead  na  haidchi  sin;  uair    ,e  ' 
ua  piseda1  fuarda  oigreta  a  etach  'na  ioithimchell,  -j  na-shildis2  405 
tromchetha  falcmara  fleochaid  asa  fholt  -\   asa  edgud3.     Et 

37ota?iic  reme  annund  d'  indsaigid  inn  inaid  i  rroibe  Polinices, 
•7  rotriall-som  anad  an??san  inad  sin.    Ar  sin  roairig4  VoMnices  407 
si?;,  1  adrubairt :  "  Cia  dobeir  in  n-eici?i  -j  in  n-imluad-sa  orumsa 
adrasta  ? "    Is  andsi/i  adubairt  Tid :  "  Erig,"  ar  se,  "  ■]  facaib 
damsa  in  n-ait  -j  in  n-adua  i  n-atai,  co  ndernaind-sea  suan 

375  1  sirchotlad  and." 

Cid   tra  acht  rogabasta?'  co?;fad   co  tnuthach  cosnumach,  410 
1  fearga  firmora  fiadnacha  na  milead  sin,  cona  dernsad  coibnius 
na  coicele  inn  ait  nach  a  n-eninad  inn  aidchi  sin,  -j  ua  cumair 
co //«raid  -j  imacallma  iat  inn  uair  sin.    Is  andsin  rogabsatar 

380  bruth  -j  borrfad,  brig  -\  barand,  att  -j  annini5  na  curadu  sin  re 
chele,  co  rachuirset  na  cuifigeada  calma  coralai?id  sin  a  n-etaigi 
i  nn-enfh.ee/fi  -j  a  n-enaball6  dib  dochu??i  in  comraic  sin. 

Polinices,  immorro,  ua  hairddi  -j  ua  hairegda,  ua  rigdu  1  ua  414 
rochalma,  ua  datu  -j  ua  denmaigi7  é  ana  gach8  duine,  -\  ua 

385  trichtach  in  t?*enfer  sia  in  tan  sin.  Tid,  immorro,  mac  Oenius 
in  trenfear  calma  Calidonda,  fear  bee9  baile  beoda  bruthmar 
borrfadach  alai?id  eccendais  aninneach  mermwrnech  morme/i- 
ranach.  Is  ancisin  rogabastair  in  tuir  thalchar  Tiauanda  .i. 
Polonices,  sleig  lethanglais  lanmoir  co  crunch  datta  deigrem?»- 

390  isin  dara  laim  do  re  sadud  -j  re  srai?iiud  a  escarat  uad,  -]  cloideb 
leathan  lanfhada  lanadbul  re  hairlech  7  re  himbualad  isi?i 
laim  araill.  Tid  immorro,  mac  Oenius,  rogab  a  catharm 
catha  1  comraic  1  comlaind  inn  uair  sin ;  -|  ger-ba  lugu 
d'   ais   -j    do   airddi   in   gilla   sin,  ua  bailci  -j   ua  bunata    e 

395  anda10  each  fear. 

Cid  tra  acht  ba  setrech  sirchalma  serig  na  tresa  troma 
trenbeweand  doberead  each11  dib  uar  a  chele,  cumma  samalta 
ri  tenid  trichea?nruaid12  laindrigda13  lasamnachta  na  n-arm  -j  na 
n-fhilfaebar14  re  frasugud  na  fola  fordeirgi  re  [corpaib  Eg.]  (p.  6) 

400 1  cendaib  na  milead  moradbul  sin,  -j  ba  tend  in  tuargain  dobertis 

1  Eg.  pisidi           2  Eg.  nothsilldis           s  Eg.  etach  4  Eg.  rofhiaifatp 

6  E.  ahini    Eg.  a  n-ininne                   6  Eg.  abholl  7  Eg.  denxmxaigi 

8  Eg.  na  each,  triatach        9  Eg.  bee  bregha       10  Eg.  é  na  n  Eg.  each  fer 

12  Eg.  tren  ruaith                  13  E.  laindrig    Eg.  lonnr-  14  Eg.  ilfsebi/r 

24 


THE  THEBAID 

rough  wintry  night  to  approach  the  city  of  Larissa,  and  Tydeus 
was  sad  at  the  suffering  of  that  night ;  for  his  garments  were 
chill  icy  pieces  around  him,  and  heavy  drenching  showers  of 
wet  dripped  from  his  hair  and  his  clothing.  And  he  fared 
forward  on  toward  the  place  in  which  Polynices  was,  and  he 
essayed  to  rest  in  that  place.  Thereupon  Polynices  perceived 
that,  and  said  :  "  Who  causes  me  this  violence  and  disturbance 
at  this  time  ? "  Then  said  Tydeus  :  "  Arise,"  said  he,  "  and  leave 
to  me  the  place  and  abode  in  which  thou  art,  that  I  may  sleep 
and  enjoy  long  slumber  there." 

Now  jealous  contentious  fury,  and  very  great  and  manifest 
anger  seized  those  soldiers,  so  that  they  did  not  show  the  kind- 
ness or  the  companionship  of  the  place,  or  of  their  identical 
position  that  night,  and  they  were  brief  in  conversation  and 
mutual  address  at  that  time.  Then  heat  and  wrath,  vigour  and 
anger,  swelling  and  fury  against  one  another  seized  those  heroes, 
so  that  those  brave  warriors  doffed  their  garments  at  the  same 
time  and  place  for  that  contest. 

Now  Polynices  was  taller  and  statelier,  more  kingly  and 
valiant,  comelier  and  shapelier  than  any  man,  and  that  champion 
was  thirty  years  of  age  at  that  time.  Tydeus,  again,  son  of 
Oeneus,  the  brave  champion  of  Calydon,  was  a  man  small  in 
stature,  strong,  lively,  wrathful,  ireful,  beautiful,  ungentle,  angry, 
rashly  clamorous,  high-spirited.  Then  Polynices,  the  strong 
tower  of  the  Thebans,  seized  in  one  hand  a  broad  grey  very 
large  spear  with  a  stout  goodly  shaft  wherewith  to  thrust  at, 
and  to  put  to  flight  his  enemies ;  and  in  the  other  a  broad,  very 
long,  very  huge  sword  for  slaughtering  and  smiting.  Tydeus, 
again,  son  of  Oeneus,  took  his  weapons  of  war,  battle  and  conflict 
then ;  and  although  that  youth  was  of  lesser  age  and  height,  he 
was  stronger  and  of  better  constitution  than  any  man. 

Moreover  strong,  ever  brave,  and  fierce  were  the  heavy  strong 
smiting  assaults  that  each  of  them  continued  to  deliver  upon 
the  other,  so  that  resembling  a  red-rushing  blazing  fire  were 
the  flamings  of  the  arms  and  the  many  edges  while  causing  the 
crimson  blood  to  shower  from  the  bodies  and  heads  of  those 
mighty  soldiers,  and  shrewd  was  the  smiting  they  continued 

25 


E.  6a  2  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  iSob  i 

ara  n-indib1  -j  ara  n-ochtaib  da  ngluinib  comnarta  comfhillti    xe 
i  cliabaib  -j   i  corapnr2  a  chele,  co?ndais  salcha  sleamna  na 
sraiteada  sin  re  siliud  7  re  snigi  na  fola  a  crechtaib  na  citrad 
sin,  -j  roshinset-snm  a  llama  adannta  aindsclecha  do  chrecht- 

405  nugnd  -)  da  chruad-chascrad  chuirp  a  chele. 

Acht  ata  ni  chena.  Robad  aicmeil  eisinill  don  fhir  thua[th]- 
chell3  Tiauanda  si?i  in  co/nruc  sin  .i.  do  Polinices,  acht  mine 
chluinead  in  ri  uasal  Adraist  in  n-nual[l] 4  n-anuail  n-anaichnid 
sin  na  cnrad  comruraach5  a  comruc,  a  sitgal  -j  a  setfeadach  na 

4iotrefifher  sin  ac  tachar.  0  'tcholaig6  immorro  in  ri  sonmech 
senorda  .i.  Adraist  sin,  rohadandait  lochrancfa  loindearrda  loin- 
dreacha  lasamna  -j  sutrolla  suaichinti  solusta,  -j  tanic  reime 
asin7  grianan  glansolus  i  rroibi,-|atchonaairc  na  firu  aduathmara 
agarba  anachinti,  7  a  gnuis  letarthach  landerg8  co  mbrsenaib 

415  fola    fordeirgi   forro.     Is   ancfein   adrubairt  Adraist  riu    gen 
drochciall  do  denam,  7  dofhiarfaig  :  "  Ca  dasacht  ar  atathai9,  438 
a  occu  ailli  echtarda  ?  -j  ga  difhoillsignd  dermair  dobeir  oraib 
comruc  7  comlond  do  denam  'sinn  aidchi  ?  7  cid  on  ? "  ar  se. 
"  In  ar  girra10  in  lae  lib  dober  oraib  troit  *j  tachar  do  denam 

42oadrasta?   Et  indisid  dun11  can  as  tangauar,  no  cuich  sib  fei??, 
1  ca  iret  tegthi,  -j  ca  fath  [b]ar  fidebtha;  -j  rofheadar-sa,"  ar 
se,  "is  daine  suarca  sochenel12  sib."    Is  andsin  rofhregradar  i  447 
n-oenfhecht  7  in  n-oenaball  do :  "A  dei  da  n-adramaid,"  ar 
siad,  "  cadai-siu13  duind  ? "    Et  ar  sin  rolobair  Tid  :  "  Tanac-sa14, 

425  immorro,"  ar  se,  "a  crichaib  na  Calidone,  •]  tuc  an  agaid  mi  453 
conigi  seo15,  7  rob  ail  lim  ait  -j  inat  ar  teichead  na  doi?ii??di  do 
fhagbail  suncZ,  7  ni  fhetar  cia  an  duine  seo,"  ar  se,  "nar-leic 
dam  in  n-i/iad  inar-tnallas  anad,  uair  is  e  fen  ta»ic  ar  tus  and, 
7  rofhindfa  tussu,"  ar  se,  "  in  ua  so?;airt  sochenelach  misi  trem 

430 gnimradaib  goili  7  g&iscid;  7  dano,"  ar  se  Tid,  "is  e  Oenius  ri 
na  Calidone  m'  athair."    Et  ar  sin  rolobair  Polinices  mac  Edip  :  465 
"  Is  lor  lim  fen  mo  shochenelaigi,"  ar  se,  "  7  met  mo  menman." 

1  Eg.  tuaircain...ar  inclibh  -  E.  eompw/-         3  Eg.  aigmeil...theisinmH 

4  Eg.  a  nuall  5  Eg.  comrurarach  6  Eg.  a  tachar  0'dchualfli£f 

7  Eg.  suaichinta...isin  8  Eg.  anaichinti  7  angnuisi  lethardha  landerga 

9  E.  doiarfaid...Eg.  atai     10  Eg.  inn  ar  girra     u  E.  indisig  Eg.  innsidh  duin 
12  Eg.  carate<7</ii  fath  bar  ndebtha...sochinelacha  13  Eg.  cétfataisiu 

14  Eg.  tanaeusa        15  Eg.  inn  oig-  mé  eonuigi  so  mé 
26 


THE  THEBAID 

dealing  on  their  heads  and  on  their  bosoms  with  their  strong 
knees  bent  on  each  other's  chests  and  breasts,  so  that  foul  and 
slippery  were  those  streets  with  the  dropping  and  the  dripping 
of  the  blood  from  the  wounds  of  those  heroes,  and  they  stretched 
out  their  flaming  combatant  hands  to  wound  and  cruelly  to 
mangle  the  bodies  of  each  other. 

But  there  is  one  thing  besides.  Dangerous  and  hazardous 
had  that  conflict  been  to  that  cunning  Theban  man,  Polynices, 
had  not  the  noble  king  Adrastus  heard  that  heavy  strange 
shout  of  those  heroes  contending  in  combat,  the  plaining  and 
panting  of  those  champions  as  they  encountered.  When,  how- 
ever, the  prosperous  aged  king,  Adrastus,  heard  that,  blazing 
brilliant  flaming  lamps  were  lit,  and  conspicuous  gleaming 
torches,  and  he  advanced  from  the  pure  bright  summer  palace 
in  which  he  dwelt,  and  he  beheld  the  dreadful  rough  unknown 
men,  their  faces  mangled  and  very  red  with  drops  of  crimson 
blood  upon  them.  Then  Adrastus  told  them  not  to  commit 
folly,  and  he  asked  :  "  What  madness  are  ye  bent  on,  ye  fair 
foreign  youths  ?  and  what  vast  mystery  forces  you  to  do  combat 
and  conflict  in  the  night  ?  And  what  is  it  ? "  said  he.  "  Is  it 
because  of  the  day's  shortness,  think  ye,  that  ye  must  struggle 
and  fight  at  this  time  ?  And  tell  us  now  whence  ye  have  come, 
and  who  ye  yourselves  are,  and  what  space  ye  come,  and  what 
is  the  cause  of  your  strife ;  and  I  know,"  said  he,  "  ye  are  gentle 
well-born  men."  Then  they  answered  him  at  the  same  time  and 
place  :  "  By  the  gods  whom  we  worship,"  said  they,  "  what  ails 
thee  at  us  ? "  And  then  Tydeus  spoke :  "  I  have  come,  then, 
from  the  bounds  of  Calydon,  and  the  night  has  brought  me  thus 
far,  and  I  wished  to  find  here  a  place  and  position  to  escape  the 
storm,  and  I  know  not  who  this  man  is,"  said  he,  "who  did  not 
allow  to  me  the  place  in  which  I  tried  to  stay,  for  he  himself 
had  come  there  first,  and  thou  wilt  find,"  said  he,  "whether 
I  was  brave  and  well-born  through  my  deeds  of  valour  and 
prowess ;  and  also,"  said  he,  "  Oeneus,  the  king  of  Calydon,  is 
my  father."  And  thereafter  Polynices,  the  son  of  Oedipus,  spoke : 
"Enough  in  my  own  estimation  is  my  good  birth,"  said  he, 
27 


E.  6*  41  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  18 1*  2 

Et  is  ed  uadera  dosom1  gen  aimn  a  athar  d'  mdsin  na  d'  aisnes    t 
ar  met  a  chuil  -j  a  chorbaid,  uair  ua  nar  leis-[s]eo???  a  i?idisi?i 

435  in  chuil  hi  sin. 

Is  andsin  rolobair  in  ri  cendais  cianaesta  Adraist :  "  Leigid  467 
as  ua[r]  feirg  7  uar  fuasait,  7  tait  limsa  do???,  thig,"  ar  se,  "  co 
comsnaid??imer2  uar  comand  7  [bar  cornice3  -j  Eg.]  uar  cari- 
drad,  7  is  doig  comma  fearrdi  beias  uar  comand  deued4  do  472 

44odenam  daib,  uair  is  iad  seo  da  fher  dec  rop  ferr  comaltws 
•j  comand  isin  bith  .i.  Achilles  7  Patrocolws  -j  Orestis  7  Pilades  476 

7  Nisus  7    Eorialws  -j   Cast»?'  7   [Pullux  1    Tesisius  Eg.]  7 
Pirathous  7  Polinices  -j  Tid."   (col.  /3)    Tangadar-som  aroen48i 
re  hAdraist  andsi??  arna  n-etarscarad  da5  comruc  -)  da  comlonc? 

445  d'  iwdsaigid  in  tigi  rigda  roaird  ;  7  robai6  Adraist  ac  fegad  na 
fer  si??  ar  si??,  7  adchonrfairc  craicenc?  leo??iai?i  barrglom  buidi-  484 
mongaich    niirmoir   mirathmair   mallac/?£aich7    im    Polinices. 
Tid  immorro  mac   Oenius  is  amlaid  robai-side,  7   chroiceníí  48S 
tuirc  adbail  allaid  immi,  -j  a  fhiacla  cruaidi  croma  i  lleanmain 

450  in  croici??d  si??.    Et  o  'tchoncZairc  Adraist  si??,  rothuigestair  i?? 
fhirinde  f haisti??e  doroigne  Apaill  do,  co??iad  muc  adbul  allaid,  497 
1  comad  leo???an  lone?  letarthach  lanadbul  uad  cleamnada  do ; 
1  rue  Adraist  a  altugwd  buidi8  dona  deib,  comad  iat  na  cwraid 
si??  uad  cleamnada  do,  arbithin  na  croiceanc?  rouatar  umpu.  510 

455  Is  anrfsin  rogabastair-sum  a  llama  deasa  na  deisi  sin,  7  rue 
leis  iat  isi??  teach  fa  diamra  -j  ua9  derride  isi/i  rigdun.     Et  is 
amlaid  rouai  in  tech  sir?,  7  dered  idbarta  dorondad10  leis-[s]eo??? 
anrf,  7  adbert-so??i  re  muntir  :  "Atdaite?"  lib  tendti11  lnsamnas^ 
lanmora  7   athnuithter12  lib  fleda  firmesca  fina."    Is  ancfei?? 

460  roerig  seastan  7  seiselb  re  himad  -j  re  himluad  muntm  in  rig 
re  freastal  7  re  fritholam  na  fieidi  si??,  7  roergeadar  dream  dib  518 
re  dergud13  imdad  do  pellaib  cimsacha  corcarglana  7  d'  imsci??gib 
ailli  orda  7  do  chearchaillib  caema  clumderaithib14 ;  -j  dream 
aile  re  freastal  7  re  fursun??ud15  na  sudrull  solusta  co  slabradaib 

465  ailli  ordaib  imfulaing  eistib ;   7   dream  aile  dib  ac  luad16  7 

1  Eg.  sin  dosan  2  Eg.  comsnaider  3  Eg.  adds  bar  comhige  7 

4  Eg.  deabatd  B  Eg.  don  6  Eg.  7  bhoi  '  Eg.  moirmallacbtaich 

8  Eg.  altudb  buidbi  9  Eg.  fo...fo  10  Eg.  doronadh  u  Eg.  rea...adhannt«r 
libh  tennti  12  Eg.  athnuaidhiter  13  E.  derdad  14  E.  clumderaitbib 
Eg.  cluimderghiM                15  Eg.  fursannudh                16  Eg.  ac  luaidh  7  ac 

28 


THE  THEBAID 

"and  the  greatness  of  my  spirit."  And  what  caused  him  not  to 
mention  or  declare  his  father's  name  was  owing  to  the  greatness 
of  his  incest  and  his  pollution,  for  he  was  ashamed  to  mention 
that  incest. 

Then  spoke  the  gentle  long-lived  king,  Adrastus  :  "  Leave  off 
your  anger  and  your  agitation,  and  come  with  me  to  my  house," 
said  he,  "  that  your  fellowship,  your  covenant,  and  your  friend- 
ship may  be  linked  together;  and  it  is  likely  your  fellowship 
will  be  all  the  better  that  ye  have  made  strife,  for  these  twelve 
men  were  the  best  in  intimate  friendship  and  fellowship  in  the 
world:  Achilles  and  Patroclus,  Orestes  and  Pylades,  Nisus  and 
Euryalus,  Castor  and  Pollux,  Theseus  and  Pirithous,  Polynices 
and  Tydeus."  Then,  after  their  breaking  off  from  their  fight 
and  combat,  they  came  along  with  Adrastus  to  the  royal  very 
lofty  house  ;  and  Adrastus  was  looking  at  those  men  after  that, 
and  he  saw  round  Polynices  a  lion's  skin  bright-piled,  tawny- 
maned,  large-portioned,  ill-omened,  accursed.  As  for  Tydeus,  son 
of  Oeneus,  however,  thus  was  he,  with  his  huge  wild-boar's  hide 
around  him,  and  its  hard  curved  tusks  attached  to  that  hide. 
And  when  Adrastus  saw  that,  he  understood  the  truth  of  the 
prophecy  which  Apollo  had  made  to  him,  that  a  huge  wild  pig 
and  a  fierce  ravening  very  huge  lion  would  be  sons-in-law  to 
him ;  and  because  of  the  hides  that  were  about  them,  Adrastus 
rendered  his  thanksgiving  to  the  gods  that  those  heroes  would 
be  sons-in-law  to  him.  Then  he  took  the  right  hands  of  those 
twain,  and  brought  them  with  him  into  the  most  secret  and 
hidden  house  in  the  royal  castle.  And  thus  was  that  house,  at 
the  end  of  a  sacrifice  which  had  been  made  by  him  there,  and 
he  said  to  his  household :  "  Let  flaming  very  great  fires  be 
lighted  by  you,  and  let  truly  intoxicating  feasts  of  wine  be 
renewed  by  you."  Then  arose  clatter  and  tumult  owing  to  the 
multitude  and  the  activity  of  the  king's  household  in  serving 
and  attending  at  that  feast,  and  some  of  them  arose  to  make  up 
beds  of  fringed  bright-purple  sheets,  and  of  beautiful  golden 
couches,  and  of  fine  pillows  in  beds  of  down ;  others  to  serve 
and  light  the  bright  lamps  with  beautiful  golden  supporting 
chains  therefrom ;  others  of  them  bestirring  themselves  and 
29 


E.  6b  32  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  18  ib  4 

luchtaireacht1  a  feola  na  fleidi  sin ;  -j  dream  ailc  dib  ac  ssethar    xe  ' 

I  ac  suidigwd2  na  mbairgen  corashuaiti  cruithnecnta  ar  miasaib 
coimdenmacha  crui?idi.     Ua  hainius3  -j  ua  haibmns  mor  re  524 
hAdraist  bruth  -\   borrfad,  teasuach  -j   tindenus  a  muinU'ri 

470  ac  frithaileawi  in  tigi  tsebalaind  sin. 

Is  anctein  rosuidestar  in    ri  diumsach    delradach    sin   ina 
rigshuidi*  rodenmach  do  chnamaib  ailli  eilfinti5.     Roshuid-  526 
setar6  immorro  isin  leith  aile  in  tigi  sin  .i.  Polinices  -j  Tid  ar 
n-indmad  -j  ar  n-asaic  doib.    Rouatar  in  dias  [s]in  ac  sillead 

475 1  ac  sirsillead7  uar  a  chele.    Is  ancZsin  adubairt  Adraist,  in  ri 
sona  seanorda  sin,  buimmi8  -j  banchometaid  a  ingen  do  tha-  530 
bair[t]  chuci  .i.  Acheist ;  -\  adrubairt  Adraist  ria  Achaist  dul 
ar  ceand  na  n-i?igen  sin,  -j  tangadar  na  hingina  csema  com- 
cosmaili  sin  isin  tech,  -j  ua  d&irgither  losa  liac  gnuisi  -j  aichthi9  537 

480  na  n-ingen  sin,  -j  ba  baine10  linscoit  lenead  arna  langlanad  in 
fecht  araill  ri  met  na  naire  rogob11  iat  (p.  7)  ac  siZZead  -|  ac  faicsin 
na  fear  coem  coimthech12.  Et  is  andsiw  tangatar  d'indsaigi  a 
n-athar,  -j  roshuidsetar13  ina  fhiadnaise.  0  ratairned14  -\  o 
rotairmiscead  a  ngeri  -j   a  n-accoriis,  1   rocA?u'read  a  miasa  540 

485  comchrui?idi15  cum  tha  uaithib,  doratastar  in  taisech  cuancZa 
co7?ioil  in  crandoic  coimfhecair  cu?ndachda  dor  -j  d'  argad16  co 
n-ilbrechtugiid17  delb  -j  torathar  in  talman18  inti  i  llamuib  in  rig 
uasail  Adraist  vaic  Iasis  mic  Danaus19  mic  Forenews20.     As  542 
ancZsiii  adubairt  Adraist:  "A  occu,"  ar  se,  "in  feadauar-si  ca  557 

490  fath    'ma   n[d]enmait-ni21    na   hidbarta-sa    gacha   bliadna  ? " 
"  Nad  [fh]eatamar-ni22,"  ar  siad.    "  Is  ed  ua23  bes  ac  Grecaib," 
ar  se,  "  inn  uair  doberthea24  ár  no  imned  forro,  idbarta  do 
denam   'na  aigid ;  -]   tabraidsi  uar   n-airi  ris,  -]    i?idesait-sea  561 
daib25    fatha    na    n-idbarta-sa26    .i.  nathair  suaichnid   secht- 

495  fhillti27  grancZa  gnuisgarb  gaisidech  eitech28  luaiwmeach  lan- 

1  Eg.  luchtmoracht  2  E.  suigigud     Eg.  suidhiugud  3  Eg.  haines 

4  E.  shuigi  B  Eg.  elifinnti  6  Eg.  roshuidsetar  E.  g 

7  Eg.  sirdechain  8  Eg.  buimhe  9  Eg.  aithchi  10  Eg.  baiíiií/tir 

II  Eg.  rogabh  12  Eg.  na  fer  forcometach  dorinne  siat  sin  13  Eg.  da 
n-innsaigidh  7  rosuidhsetar  14  Eg.  rotairngedh  1B  Eg.  cruinne 
16  Eg.  do  airget  17  Eg.  co  n-ilbrechtnudk  18  Eg.  7  om.  ...a  laim 
19  Eg.  Daniiius  20  Eg.  Foraneus  21  Eg.  fa  ndenmaidne 
22  Eg.  Ni  fetamar  23  Eg.  fa  •  24  Eg.  dobertai  25  Eg.  innesat  doibh 
26  Eg.  na  hedhbarta-sa            27  Eg.  vii  fillti            28  E.  eitech    Eg.  eiteach 

30 


THE  THEBAID 

t&*-r  ^o#uv  It*  CcuJbU** 
hurrying  forward  the  flesh  for  that  feast ;  and  others  of  them 

labouring  and  setting  the  well-kneaded  wheaten  loaves  upon 
finely  fashioned  round  dishes.  A  great  joy  and  pleasure  to 
Adrastus  were  his  household's  ardour  and  elation,  their  heat 
and  haste  as  they  prepared  that  beautiful-sided  house. 

Then  that  haughty  brilliant  king  sat  on  his  finely  fashioned 
throne  of  beautiful  elephants'  tusks.  Moreover,  on  the  other 
side  of  that  house  sat  Polynices  and  Tydeus  after  handwashing 
and  restoration.  Those  twain  were  gazing  and  ever  gazing  at 
one  another.  Then  Adrastus,  that  prosperous  aged  king,  said 
that  Aceste,  the  nurse  and  female  guardian  of  his  daughters, 
should  be  brought  to  him ;  and  Adrastus  told  Aceste  to  go  for 
those  maidens,  and  those  lovely  maidens  perfectly  alike  came 
into  that  house,  and  as  red  as  eyebrights  were  the  faces  and 
countenances  of  those  maidens,  and  at  another  time  as  white  as 
the  linen  of  a  smock  after  a  full  cleansing  at  the  greatness  of 
the  shame  which  seized  them,  as  they  glanced  at  and  beheld 
the  handsome  strange  men.  And  then  they  came  towards  their 
father,  and  sat  down  in  his  presence.  When  they  had  appeased 
and  checked  their  sharpness  and  their  hunger,  and  their  well- 
rounded  shapely  dishes  were  put  from  them,  the  comely  master 
of  the  revel  put  the  ornamented  goblet,  fashioned  of  gold  and 
silver  with  a  great  variety  of  forms  and  monsters  of  the  earth 
thereon,  into  the  hands  of  the  noble  king  Adrastus,  son  of 
Iasius,  son  of  Danaus,  son  of  Phoroneus.  Then  Adrastus  said  : 
"  Youths."  said  he,  "  do  ye  know  what  is  the  reason  why  we 
offer  these  sacrifices  every  year  ? "  "  We  do  not  know,"  said 
they.  "  This  was  a  custom  with  Greeks,"  said  he,  "  when 
slaughter  or  suffering  was  inflicted  upon  them,  to  offer  sacrifices 
against  it ;  and  give  ye  your  attention  to  it,  and  I  shall  relate 
to  you  the  reasons  for  these  sacrifices,  to  wit :  A  well-known 
serpent,  seven-coiled,  horrible,  rough-faced,  hairy,  winged,  nimble, 
31 


E.  7a  19  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg. 

neimnech  darsa  comainm  Fitoin1 
Deil2.  Et  o'tchualaig  Apaill  innihi  sin,  ta?úc  do  chathugwd 
risi/i  nathraig,  ar  ua  leis-[s]i?«n3  fei?i  int  inad  coem  coiserctha 
sin,  -]   rothoitestar  in  nathair  sin  re  hApaill  amlaid  sin   o 

5oochreachtaib  dearmara  diarmide4  con-tacmaiged  -j  con-ti?u- 
chilled  cet  laa5  air  in6  nathair  sin  ar  maigshlebib  Sirra.  Et 
asa  haithle  sin  tame  Apaill  remi  co  tigib  saidbri7  suaichinti8 
soneamla  co  hairdrig  na  nGrec  .i.  co  Crothtopus9,  -j  is  amlaid 
robai  in  ri  sin,  -j  soniucar  ingine  glegloine  genmnaide10  aicci,  -j  570 

505  tuc  in  ingen  sin  grad  ndermar11  do  Apaill,  -j  is  tairside  dochuaid 
Apaill  ua  cleith  ar  bru  shrotha12  niamgloi/i  Neim,  *j  robai  inn  575 
ingean  sin  torrach  co  cend  noi  mis,  airet13  bis  gach  bean,  -] 
rothuisim-si  mac  maisech  minalaind  mnrneach  i  clithirdiam- 

A 

raib  na  coilled  cruime14  crsebaigi.    Et  tucastar-si  da  altrom15  é  581 

5iod'aroile  buachaill  isin  tshleib  ua16  comneasa  di,  uair  ba17  hecail 
le  a  hathair  da  thabairt  a  aithbir  furri18.     Et  rohoiled  in  mac 
sin  i  llepthaib  feoir  -j  fidnemid  -\  ua19  dosaib  diamraib  digaindi  583 
darach20.    Et  is  ed  ua  hadbur  cotalta  don  naidi?i  sin  .i.  fetana 
ceolbindi  cocuasta  do  senm  do.    Fechtus  robai-sium  amlaid 

515  sin  ina  chodlud  d'eis  a  oiti,  douanic21  cuanart  craesoslaicthi22 
confadach  chuici,  -j  aduadar  é23.    O'tchualaig  mathair  in  im'c  590 
sin  .i.  ingen  Ootopm's,  rolinastar  do  gul  1   do  golgaire  na  592 
hinlesa  rig[d]a  rofhairsinga24,  -]  roi?idis  da  hathair25  sin,  -j  ni 
thanic  cridi  inn  athar  uirri,  7  romarbad  aicci  hi.     Cid  tra  acht  595 

52011a  hole  re26  hApaill  a  hhean  do  marbad,  -\  rofhaideastar-sum 
torathar  dermar  demnech27  dasachtach  d'  iiidred  in  tire  (col.  /3) 
1  in  tal»;a?i  in  n[d]igail  a  mna.  Et  is  amlaid  bai  in  torathar  sin28 
i.  delb  mna  o  cichaib  suas  fair  sin,  co  nathrachaib  duaibsecha  598 
dubglasa  ac  deligiid  a  dilleachta  ima  ceand    Et  as  e  ni  donid,  600 

525  teacht  isna  tigib  [-]]  mocaim  -j  mindaine  do  breith29  a  hochtaib 
a  maithrech  -\  a  muwied30,  -j  a  n-ithi. 

1  E.  Eg.  •pícón  =  Fitoin        2  Eg.  Dil        3  Eg.  les-[s]en        4  Eg.  diairme 
5  Eg.  lua  6  Eg.  ar  in  7  Eg.  saidhbribh  8  Eg.  suaichinta 

9  Eg.  Crotopus  10  Eg.  7  ingen  gleglan  genmnaidh  ai  Eg.  ndermair 

12  Eg.  fo  cleth...tsrotha  13  E.  ix      Eg.  li  (  =  /ioi)  14  Eg.  cruinne 

15  Eg.  da  oilemain  16  Eg.  fa  17  Eg.  fa  18  Eg.  a  aithfer  furra  10  Eg.  fa 
20  Eg.  dasachtach  darach  21  Eg.  tainic  22  Eg.  craesfhoscailti  23  Eg.  aduagh- 
áar  d  24  Eg.  rofairsenga  25  Eg.  a  hathar  26  Eg.  fa...le  2?  Eg.  dermair 
demnacha       28  Eg.  sin  7       29  Eg.  tighibh  7. ..breith         30  Eg.  a  rubuimedh 

32 


THE  THEBAID 

very  venomous,  full  maned,  named  Python,  was  devastating  the 
shapely  island  of  Delos.  And  when  Apollo  heard  that,  he  came 
to  fight  with  the  serpent,  for  that  lovely  consecrated  place  was 
his  own ;  and  that  serpent  fell  by  Apollo  in  that  way  because 
of  very  great  innumerable  wounds  when  he  compassed  and 
surrounded  that  serpent  for  a  hundred  days  on  the  sloping 
plains  of  Cirrha. 

And  after  that  Apollo  came  onward  to  rich  well-known 
excellent  houses,  unto  the  high-king  of  the  Greeks,  to  wit, 
Crotopus,  and  thus  was  that  king:  he  had  a  fine  match  of 
a  bright  pure  chaste  daughter,  and  that  daughter  loved  Apollo 
exceedingly,  and  through  her  Apollo  went  in  secret  to  the  bank 
of  the  glancing  pure  stream  of  Nemea,  and  that  maiden  was 
pregnant  for  nine  months,  the  period  that  every  woman  is,  and 
she  brought  forth  a  pretty  delicately  beautiful  darling  boy  in 
the  secret  shelters  of  the  bending  branching  forest.  And  she 
gave  him  to  nurse  to  a  certain  shepherd  in  the  mountain 
that  was  nearest  her,  for  she  feared  her  father  would  heap  his 
reproach  upon  her.  And  that  boy  was  brought  up  in  beds  of 
grass  and  of  a  sacred  grove,  and  under  remote  luxuriant  clumps 
of  oak.  And  the  cause  of  sleep  for  that  child  was  this,  to  wit, 
sweetly  melodious  hollow  whistles  playing  to  him.  Once  when 
he  was  thus  asleep  behind  his  fosterer,  an  open-jawed  raging 
pack  of  wolves  came  to  him,  and  devoured  him.  When  the 
mother  of  that  boy,  to  wit,  the  daughter  of  Crotopus,  heard  it, 
she  filled  the  very  wide  royal  halls  with  weeping  and  loud 
lamentation,  and  she  told  that  to  her  father,  and  the  father's 
heart  went  not  out  to  her,  and  she  was  killed  by  him.  Now 
Apollo  took  it  ill  that  his  wife  should  be  killed,  and  he  sent  a 
very  large  fiendish  mad  monster  to  devastate  the  land  and  the 
earth  in  order  to  avenge  his  wife.  The  monster  was  thus,  to 
wit,  a  woman's  shape  was  upon  it  from  the  breasts  upwards, 
with  dusky  dark-green  serpents  parting  her  tresses  (?)  about 
her  head.  And  the  thing  she  does  is  to  come  into  houses  to 
take  youths  and  little  people  from  their  mothers'  and  nurses' 
bosoms,  and  to  eat  them. 

33  3 


E.  7b  6  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  182a  30 

Is  andsi??,  immorra,  robai  gilla  oc  setidach1  beoda  mear  xe 
mormenmnach  do  Grecaib  .i.  Coreb?is,  -j  nir-fhulaing  doside26os 
int  ii?mead  7  int  edualafig  rofhuirim8  ar  lucht  in  tire  -j  in 

530  talnian,  7  ta/?ic  remi  cu  comruc  da  sliged  ar  cind  na  nathrach  609 
si??.   Et  is  amlaid  robai*  in  nathair  sin,  -j  maccmm  ceachtar  a 
da  lam  7  a  hi??gni  cro???a  cruadgera5  ac  tarri??g  a  n-inai  7  a 
n-inathair  -j  a  cride6  da  compur  a  cleb.    Et  dorone  Corebus 
cipi  comdamgean  catha  da  muintir  ina  timchull,  -j  rasaideastar 

535  in  cloideam  leatarthach  lanmor  robai  ina7  laim  i  compnr  a  cleb 
1  a  cridi,  co  rathoit  cen  anmai??,  7  atclos  uana8  G?-ecaib  si??. 
Et  rogab  fselti  dermar  do[fho]luchta9  iat,  7  rothinoilsead  uile 
da  hindsaigid,  -j  is  e  ni  donitis,  hers,  athgera  iaraind  do  sadud10  613 
trena  haigeadaib  7  trena  hi?idib;  7  robai  do  met  tedma  in 

540  torathair  co  na  cromdais11  eoin  na  hethaiti  na  coin  na  cuanarta  625 
ara  apach. 

Et  ua  móo12  fearg  Apaill  iman  ngni??i  sin  na  'ma  gach  ni  627 
aile   da   ndernad    ris.     Is   andsi??    immorro    tucastair  Apaill 
tedmanda   imda   uruada13   arna   Greccaib    uili   co   coitchenc? 

545  -j  arin  cathraig  Larisa  do  so??rud.    Et  ar  sin  roiarfaig16  ri  Grec  634 
do  Apaill  .i.  Cí-otopws  cra?t  rodi??gebad  dib  na  neoill  tened 
1    na   tedmancZa  si??   rouatar  aca  milliud  tre   fheirg  Apaill. 
Et  adubairt  Apaill :  '  Denad  in  milid  romarb  in  nathraig,' 
ar    se,    '  idbarta    dawsa.'     Is    anrfsi??   adrubairt    Corebns    re 

550 h Apaill:    '  Dodensa    idbarta    dit,'    ar   se,    'dum    deoi??    fen, 
1   tabair  1   dena  orumsa14  i??  n[d]igail  dobe?'a,  7  leic  oenur 
na  Grecu.'    Et  o  doron??e  Corebus  idbarta,  rosaerad  é15  fen, 
1  rosa3rait  na  Gmc  ar  cheana.     [Donimit  Eg.]  gacha  bliadna,"  666 
ar  se  Adraist,  "na  hidbarta  sin  in  n-onoir  Apoill."    Et  0  tharnic 

555  re  hAdraist  in  seel  sin  do  indisin,  roiarfaigeastar16  do  Thid  7  do 
Polinices :  "  Cuich  sibsi,"  ar  se,  "  a  fhiru  ?  7  roindis  in  darna 
fer  uaib  damsa  conaid  e  [Tit  Eg.]  mac  Oenius,  mac  rig  na 
Calido?ie.     Innisead  in  fer  aile  dam  cuich   he,  uair  is  uair  669 
cubaid  comraid."    Et  roc/iromastar  in  fear  trebar  Tiauandha  673 

1  Eg.  etetach     E.  aetigach  2  Eg.  side  8  Eg.  edfualaÍHsr  roimir 

4  Eg.  robhi  6  Eg.  ingne...cruaidhghera  6  Eg.  cridhedha  a 

7  Eg.  robi  'na  8  Eg.  0  doelos  fana  9  Eg.  dermair  dofhulachta 

10  E.  do  sagud     Eg.  do  sadhudh  u  Eg.  7  rometaig  7  roatt  in  torathar  co 

nacb.  crommdis  12  Eg.  fa  mo  1S  Eg.  urbadach  14  Eg.  ornisa 

16  Eg.  é  16  E.  i'oiai'faid...roiarfaideastar 

34 


THE  THEBAID 

Then,  however,  there  was  a  young,  youthful,  lively,  reckless, 
high-spirited  Greek  boy,  to  wit,  Coroebus ;  and  he  could  not 
endure  the  suffering  and  the  injury  which  she  imposed  upon 
the  people  of  the  country  and  the  earth  ;  and  he  came  forward 
to  the  crossing  of  two  roads  to  meet  that  serpent.  And  thus  it 
was  with  a  boy  in  each  of  its  two  hands,  and  its  hooked  hard 
and  sharp  claws  dragging  their  bowels,  their  entrails,  and  their 
hearts  out  of  the  cavity  of  their  breasts.  And  Coroebus  made  a 
strong  line  of  battle  with  his  followers  round  it,  and  he  thrust 
the  lethal  full  great  sword  that  was  in  his  hand  into  the  cavity 
of  its  chest  and  its  heart,  so  that  it  fell  lifeless,  and  that  was 
heard  by  the  Greeks.  And  great  intolerable  joy  possessed  them, 
and  they  all  gathered  unto  it,  and  what  they  did  was  to  thrust 
very  sharp  iron  spits  through  its  breasts  and  its  entrails ;  and 
there  was  so  great  a  pestilence  from  the  monster  that  fowls, 
birds,  dogs  or  packs  of  wolves  descended  not  upon  its  entrails. 

And  Apollo's  anger  was  greater  about  that  deed  than  about 
anything  else  that  had  been  done  to  him.  Then  indeed  Apollo 
brought  many  dire  pestilences  upon  all  the  Greeks  in  common, 
and  upon  the  city  of  Larissa  in  especial.  And  after  that  a 
Greek  king,  to  wit,  Crotopus,  asked  of  Apollo  what  would  ward 
off  from  them  those  clouds  of  fire  and  those  pestilences  which 
were  destroying  them  through  Apollo's  anger.  And  Apollo  said : 
'Let  the  soldier  that  killed  the  serpent,'  said  he,  'offer  sacrifices 
to  me.'  Then  said  Coroebus  to  Apollo:  'I  shall  offer  sacrifices 
to  thee/  said  he,  '  of  my  own  free  will,  provided  thou  inflict 
and  work  on  me  the  vengeance  thou  wilt  inflict,  and  let  the 
Greeks  alone.'  And  when  Coroebus  had  offered  sacrifices,  he 
himself  was  saved,  and  the  Greeks  also.  Every  year,"  said 
Adrastus,  "  we  'offer  these  sacrifices  in  honour  of  Apollo."  And 
when  Adrastus  had  concluded  relating  that  tale,  he  enquired  of 
Tydeus  and  Polynices  "Who  are  ye,  O  men?"  said  he.  "And 
one  of  the  two  of  you  has  told  me  that  he  is  Tydeus,  the  son  of 
Oeneus,  son  of  the  king  of  Calydon.  Let  the  other  one  tell  me 
who  he  is,  since  it  is  a  fitting  time  for  conversation."  And 
that  prudent  Theban,  Polynices,  bowed  his  head,  and  looked 
35  3-2 


E.  7b  47  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  183a  1 

560  sin  a  cheand  .i.  PoMnices,  -j  rodech1  secha  uar  Thid,  7  adubairt :     f 
"  Is  nar  limsa,  am,"  ar  se,  "  a  indisin  mo  bunadceneoil  iter  na  678 
hi»ataib  caema  craibthecha  cosearctha,  -]  cidead,"  ar  se,  "  is  do 
shil  croda  Caithim,  nn'c  Agenoir  dam  (p.  8) ;  -j  is  e  m'  [fhjerand2 
dileas  dearrscaigtheach  cathach  confadach  in  Teib,  -j  is  i  1110681 

565  mathair  .i.  Iochasta."  Et  is  ed  uadera  dosom  gan  aimn  a  athar 
do  rada  ara  met3  a  nairi  leis-[s]eom  in  chuil  sin.  Is  andsin 
immorro  adubairt  Adraist:  "Creed  'ma  celfidea-su  oraindi 
si??  ? "  ar  se,  "  uair  ni  fuil  ua  ceatharairdib  na  cruindi  nech 
nach  cualaig  col4  7  crodacht  in  chi?uuda  thnuthaich  Tiauanda. 

570  Et  dano5  ni  fuil  acai??d  cn'ch  na  ciniud6  cen  chol,  7  dena-su 
fen  maith,"  ar  se,  "7  na  hi?idtamlai£Fna  huilc  in  chinid  da  691 
uili7."     Et  a  haithli  in  chomraid  sin   re   PoMnices,  adubairt 
Adraist:  "Batar8  na  tenti,  uair  dered  don  aidchi  -j  urthosach 
dun  lo,  7  dentar  acai??d  admolta  da  Apaill  co  honorach,"  ar  se. 

575  Is  i  sin  oes9  7  fuair  -j  aimsear  doroindi  Ioib,  mac  sona  saidbir 
Satuira,  conni  -j  comairli  risna  haireacAiaib  dimoraib  diadaib10, 
ca  digail  daberad  arna  Tiauandaib  7  arna11  Grecaib  isna  olcaib 
doronsad12.  Et  ua  hole  am  re  hlunaiwd  in  comairli  sin  digail 
do  thobairt  arna  Grecaib,  -j  robai  'ga  thairmeasc13.    Is  i  comairli 

58odorigni  ancisi?i  Ioib,  a  mac  mnrnech  morgradach  MercuiV  .i. 
techtaire  na  ndei  ifreanrfaide,  do  chur  a  n-ifre?i  do  thocbail 
1  da  thoduscad  leáus,  athar  Eidip,  co  ndernad  -j  co  n-adandad 
irgail14  -j  anindi,  cothnud15  -j  comchosmim  iter  a  uib16  .i.Ethiocles 
1   PoMnices.     Et  o  roemded  in  comairli  sin  re  hloib17,  mac 

585  Satuirn,  -\  risna  deib  ar  cheana,  roerig  Mercuir,  mac  Maia, 
i??gi?(e  Athlaint18,  -j  rogob  a  oencheandaich  luim  luaimnig 
lanalaind  imi19  re  himluad  -j  re  hetegail20  os  talmam  do.  Et 
rogabastar  a  chathbarr  orecair21  ilbrechtnaigthi  ima  cheand, 
-j  rogabastair  a  fleisc   ceandchaim   cíímachtaich   ina  laim  .i. 

S9ocadruca22  ai?im  na  fleisci  sin.  Et  is  amlaid  robai  in  fhlesc 
hisin,    rohodiuscfecl    in    dara23    cend    di    mairb    in    domai», 

1  Eg.  rofech  2  Eg.  m'  feronn  3  Eg.  ar  met  4  Eg.  a  col  7  a 

;  Eg.  Aono  6  Eg.  na  cinel:  cen  chol  om.  7  Eg.  na  huilc  da  fhuili 

8  Eg.  baiter  9  Eg.  Is  i  sin  ces  10  Eg.  di&ghaibh  u  Eg.  ar 

Tiabantaibh  7  ar  12  Eg.  doronad  13  Margin  'ruan[d]ei  neamda 

»  Eg.  irgola  15  Eg.  cathugud  7  16  Eg.  iter  uaibh  17  Eg.  lob 

18  Eg.  Athlainnti  19  Eg.  uime  20  Eg.  hetell-  21  Eg.  oiregair 

22  Eg.  caimchumdachtaich...cadaruca      23  Eg.  hisin  7  rothodusc/etf/t  an darna 

36 


THE  THEBAID 

aside  at  Tydeus,  and  said :  "  I  am  ashamed,  indeed,"  said  he, 
"  to  declare  my  original  kin  amid  the  lovely  holy  consecrated 
places;  and  yet,"  said  he,  "I  am  of  the  brave  race  of  Cadmus, 
son  of  Agenor;  and  my  own  proper  distinguished  warlike  stormy 
state  is  Thebes,  and  my  mother  is  Jocasta."  And  what  made 
him  not  mention  his  father's  name  was  on  account  of  the  great- 
ness of  the  shame  he  felt  at  that  sin.  Then,  however,  Adrastus 
said:  "Wherefore  shouldest  thou  hide  that  from  us?"  said  he, 
"since  no  one  exists  throughout  the  four  quarters  of  the  globe 
but  has  heard  of  the  sin  and  the  valour  of  the  envious  Theban 
race.  And,  indeed,  we  have  no  territory  or  tribe  without  sin, 
but  do  thou  do  right  thyself,"  said  he,  "  and  do  not  imitate  the 
evils  of  the  race  of  which  thou  art."  And  after  that  conversa- 
tion with  Polynices,  Adrastus  said  :  "  Let  the  fires  be  extin- 
guished, for  it  is  the  end  of  the  night  and  the  beginning  of  the 
day,  and  let  praises  be  offered  by  us  in  honour  of  Apollo," 
said  he. 

That  is  the  time,  hour  and  period  that  Jove,  Saturn's  happy 
rich  son,  held  meeting  and  counsel  with  the  vast  concourses  of 
gods  as  to  what  vengeance  he  should  inflict  on  the  Thebans 
and  on  the  Greeks  for  the  evils  they  had  done.  And  indeed  ill 
did  Juno  brook  that  counsel  to  take  vengeance  on  the  Greeks, 
and  she  was  hindering  it.  This  is  the  counsel  that  Jove  then 
took,  to  send  his  dear  and  much-loved  son,  Mercury,  the 
messenger  of  the  infernal  gods,  to  hell  to  raise  and  to  awake 
Laius,  father  of  Oedipus,  to  make  and  enflame  strife  and  anger, 
mutual  jealousy  and  contention  between  his  grandsons,  Eteocles 
and  Polynices.  And  when  that  counsel  was  fixed  upon  by  Jove, 
son  of  Saturn,  and  by  all  the  gods,  Mercury,  son  of  Maia, 
daughter  of  Atlas,  arose  and  put  round  him  his  bare  volatile 
full-beautiful  bird-gear  in  order  to  hover  and  to  fly  above  the 
earth.  And  he  put  his  ornamented  much-variegated  helm  upon 
his  head,  and  took  in  his  hand  his  beautiful-headed  wand  of 
power,  caduceus  was  the  name  of  that  wand.  And  such  was 
that  wand  that  one  end  of  it  would  wake  the  world's  dead,  the 
other  would  kill  the  world's  men.  And  Mercury  went  forward 
after  that  unto  assemblies  of  hell's  depths,  a  place   wherein 

17 


E.  8a  37  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  183b  1 

7  romair[b]fead  firu  in  domain  in  cend  aile.    Et  tanic  roime     *  ' 
Mercm'r  ar  sin  co  haire«c/^aib  ichtair  ifrin,  ait  i  rraibe1  Laius 
i  n-imid  utmall  anoibi/id  ar  bru  srotha2  Stig,  7  roerig  Lains 

595  la  Mercuir  ar  fuirmed  na  flesci  fair,  7  tangatar  reompo  tresna 
foiscthib  fuarda  firgranda  firdomni  ifirncZ,  7  tresna  nellaib 
duba  dorchaidi  dermara  difhulaiúg,  7  tre3  chiachaib  bodra 
brena  buaidirthi  batar  and,  cein  noco  torachtadar  co  dorus 
n-imnidach4  n-uruadach  n-ifrind  .i.  co  Tenair,  7  o  roairig  in  cu 

óooacgarb5  aduathmar  crresoslaicthi6  confadach  treitelltachrach7 
trencendach  Ceirbeir,  cu  Oirc,  na  firu  sin  chuici8,  rof  hosclastair9 
glomair  na  cjirses10  crithnaichech  coccuasta  batar  (col.  /3)  aicci 
da  sreangad  1  da  slngWchacnom11  na  fear  sin,  uair  is  e  sin 
ua  deoirseoir  deamnach  dichoindirclech  ifrin.     Et  rothocaib 

605  MercMtV  in  laiwi,  7  rufiurmeastar  beim  do  chind  imnedach12 
na  flesci  robai  ina  laim  arin  coin  sin,  cor-ua  suan  sircotalta  do. 
Et  tangatar  reompu  ar  sin  .i.  MercmV  7  Lains,  dar  dorns  ifrin 
amach. 


II 

Et  tanic  immorro  Mercntr  remi  isna   sligthib  suaichinti    ^ 
óiosolusta  ar  fat  inn  seoir  uraird  ainbheanaig  fhuasnadaig13  co  1 
haitib  reidi  roailli  ragsethacha  Ioib.    Laiws  immorro  tanic  seic  7 
remi  dar  sligthib  soreidi  sointtheac/^a  slebe  Cirra,  -j  dar  in 
cathraig14  fiadnaig  fosadgloin  dar  Foca,  ait  ar-marbad  7  ar- 
mu[d]aiged  eseam  fen,  -j  doriacht  co  Teib.     Ua  hecal  7   ua  65 
615  huruath15  les-[s]eom  tocht  isin  cathraig  ara  crodacht  -j  ara 
colaigi.   Et  is  amlaid  rouatar  cttraid  na  cathrach  inn  uair16  sin, 
1  siat  measca  mertnecha  a  haithli  idbarta  do  denam  doib  do 
Baith,  do  dei  inn  fhina.   Is  andsin  rogabastar  in  seonor  eclach 
-^>*a^  *^       imnach  imnedach17  .i.  Laius,  rogabastar  delb  -j  denam  araile 
tjjojzZ^Z*-  620  fatha  -j  fisid  do  Tiauandaib  fair  fen  .i.  Tresias  a  ainm-side.  95 

1  Eg.  a  roibhi      2  Eg.  bru  tsrotha  Sdix      3  Eg.  tresna     4  Eg.  n-imnedack 
5  Eg.  garb  6  Eg.  craesfoscailti  7  Eg.  trethelltachrach 

8  E.  chuici  7  9  Eg.  cugi  rofhoslaicestair  10  Eg.  craesfoslaictki 

cvithnaiflknech  n  E.  sliicacnom  Eg.  do  shlugcii/cognHm  12  Eg.  inmnedach 
13  E.  fhuasnagaig  14  E.  cathraid  15  Eg.  hecail  7  ua  urfuath  16  Eg.  in 
trath  17  Eg.  senoir  uaimnech  imnedach 

38 


THE  THEBAID 

dwelt  Laius,  in  an  unsettled  joyless  place  upon  the  brink  of  the 
river  Styx,  and  Laius  went  with  Mercury  after  the  wand  had 
been  laid  upon  him,  and  they  came  forward  through  the  chill 
very  hideous,  very  deep,  shades  of  hell,  and  through  the  black 
dark  huge  intolerable  clouds,  and  through  deaf  foul  mists  of 
confusion  that  were  there,  until  they  arrived  at  Taenaros,  hell's 
woeful  dreadful  door,  and  when  the  fierce  horrible  open-jawed 
furious  bravely  fighting  strong-headed  dog,  Cerberus,  dog  of 
Orcus,  perceived  those  men  approaching  him,  he  opened  the 
muzzle  of  the  quivering  hollow  jaws  which  he  had  in  order  to 
rend  and  to  gnaw  and  swallow  those  men,  for  he  was  the 
devilish  merciless  doorkeeper  of  hell.  And  Mercury  lifted  up 
his  hand,  and  laid  a  stroke  of  the  lethal  end  of  the  wand  that 
was  in  his  hand  upon  that  dog,  so  that  he  remained  in  a  sound 
and  lasting  slumber.  And  after  that  they,  to  wit,  Mercury  and 
Laius,  passed  out  beyond  hell's  door. 


BOOK  II 

And,  moreover,  Mercury  came  forward  into  the  well-known 
bright  paths  along  the  stormy  troubled  upper  air  to  Jove's 
smooth,  very  beautiful,  very  windy  places.  Laius,  however,  came 
forward  through  the  very  smooth  easily  traversed  roads  of 
mount  Cirrha,  and  through  Phocis,  the  visible  fair-founded 
city — a  place  in  which  he  himself  had  been  killed  and  had 
perished — and  he  arrived  at  Thebes.  He  feared  and  dreaded  to 
enter  the  city  owing  to  its  valour  and  sinfulness.  And  thus 
were  the  chiefs  of  the  city  at  that  time,  drunk  and  enfeebled 
after  they  had  offered  sacrifices  to  Bacchus,  the  god  of  wine. 
Then  he  assumed,  the  fearful,  horrified,  woeful  old  man  Laius 
himself  assumed  the  form  and  shape  of  a  certain  Theban  prophet 
and  seer,  Tiresias  his  name.  And  Laius  assumed  that  form  for 
the  reason  that  he  might  be  the  more  believed,  for  visions, 
39 


E.  8b  24  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  183b  30 

Et  is  immi  rogab  Laiws  in  ndeilb  si?i  fhair1,  commad  moidi    ^ 
rocreitea  do,  ar  ni  chreiti[r]-siu?H2  fisi  na  hamra  na  haisliwgi 
and,  mi??a  bedis  persanáa  uaisli  aca  imluad.   Et  tuargaib  Lai?/s 
ar  sin  in  flesc  filead  bai  'na  laim,  -j  tuc  ara3  ucht  Ethiocles  mar 

625  a  rabi  'na  collad,  ~\  adrubairt  ris  :  "  Ua4  cora  dit  am,"  ar  se, 
"  duad  -j  domenma  do  denam  na  ainins  -j  aibniws,  -\  ua  cora 
dait  snim  -j  siregi[m]5  do  denam  ina  suan  -\  sirchodlud6,  uair 
ita  do  brathair  ac  tinol  ~\  ac  tochostol7  it  agaid.  Et  dano  ita 
brig  -]  borrfad,  uaill  -j  diumus  arbithin  caradraid  -j  cleamnais 

630  in  rig8  uasail  Adraist  d'[fh]aguail  do.  Et  rochindestar  commund 
1  caradrad  risin  fer  calma  Calidone?,  re  Tid,  mac  Oenius,  do  chur 
id  cena'-su  da[t]  thachur  7  dat9  indarba-su  as  do  rigflaithius10.  115 
Et  roc/iweastar  Ioib,  cend  na  ndei,  misi  da  indisin  daitsiu  sin, 
1  bid  in  Teib  acut  fern,  -7  na  leic  foirb11  na  fearanaus  do  inti12." 

635  Et  asa  haithli  si?*  tanic  laa  cona  lansoillsi13,  7  roleic  Laius  e 
ina  richt  fen  ar  lebaid  -j  ar  lanndergad14  a  ua  .i.  ethiocles. 
Rafhoillsig  1  roi/?dis  na  cneda  -]  na  crechta  tucastar  Eidip 
air.     Et  rolecestar  sruth  li??dti  fala  foruidri15  fiadnaige16  asna  126 
crechtaib  sin  ara  ucht  7  ara  agaid  do  Eithiocies.    Et  is  andsi// 

64oroerig  Ethiocles  co  haduathmar  amdsclech17  imeclach  asa  ait  127 
■j  asa  imdaid18,  -]  bai  ac  iarraid  (p.  9)  a  brathar  do  throit  -7  da 
thachar19  ris,  amal  thiger20  nemnig  nai?/idigi  arna  duscad  asa 
suan  -j  asa  sirchodlud  do  mum  -j  do  medar21  lochta  na  sealga 
aca  sreathad  'na  timchell. 

645  Cid  tra  acht  ua  hirdered22  don  n-aeichi23  -j  ua  tosach  don  lo 
acna  hidbartaib  sin  aidbli  Adraist.  Et  is  ancisin  ta?iic  Adraist 
-]  Folinices  -j  Tid  da  n-imdadaib  ■]  da  lepthaib,  -j  rothoit  a  suan 
1  a  sirchotlad  ortho24  a  haithli  anbthine  na  hoidchi  sin.  Et  nir 
chadail  immorro  int  airdri  uasal  Adraist,  acht  rouadar  imraiti 

65oimda  ilerda  ar  mewmain  inn  fhir  sin.   Arna  marach  tangadar 
isin  rigdai  roglor»  sin,  -j  tuc  each  dib  lam25  a  llaim  a  chele.  149 
Donaisc  a  chomaind  -\  a  caradraid  ara  chele26,  -j  rucastar  Adraist 

1  Eg.  dealb  sin  fair        2  Eg.  creidir-sium        3  Eg.  ui  'na...ar        4  Eg.  fa 

*  Eg.  siregem         6  E.  sirchodlug        7  Eg.  toicc.<dal         8  Eg.  clemnusa  in  ri 

*  Eg.  dod  tachar  7  dod  tindarbii-sa  10  Eg.  rifhlaithius  n  Eg.  foirbh 
12  Eg.  inti  E.  om.  13  Eg.  lanshoillsi  14  E.  lannderdad  15  Eg.  forruaidhi 
16  E.  fiadnaide  17  E.  aid  Eg.  ainnsglecha  18  Eg.  asa  inudh  19  Eg.  do 
tachar  20  Eg.  tiger  21  Eg.  medhair  2"-  Eg.  forderedh  don  oidhchi 
23  E.  doniieici       2i  Eg.  orrtha        25  E.  i  km         26  Donaisc... chele   Eg.  om. 

40 


THE  THEBAID 

marvels,  or  dreams  were  not  believed  there,  unless  there  were 
noble  persons  spreading  it  about.  And  after  that  Laius  raised 
the  poet's  wand  that  was  in  his  hand  and  placed  it  on  Eteoeles' 
breast  as  he  lay  asleep,  and  said  to  him:  "Thou  oughtest  indeed," 
said  he,  "to  feel  hardship  and  dejection  rather  than  joy  and 
gladness,  and  sorrow  and  lamentation  than  to  lie  in  sleep  and 
in  slumber,  for  thy  brother  is  gathering  and  mustering  against 
thee.  And  again  there  is  force  and  swelling,  pride  and  haughti- 
ness because  the  friendship  and  affinity  of  the  noble  king 
Adrastus  have  been  obtained  by  him.  And  he  has  established 
fellowship  and  friendship  with  the  brave  man  of  Calydon, 
Tydeus,  son  of  Oeneus,  to  oppose  thee  in  order  to  fight  with 
and  banish  thee  out  of  thy  sovereignty.  And  Jove,  the  chief  of 
the  gods,  has  sent  me  to  tell  thee  of  that,  and  let  Thebes  be 
thine  own,  and  do  not  allow  him  to  have  heritage  or  landed 
property  therein."  And  after  that  came  day  with  its  full  light, 
and  Laius  in  his  own  form  laid  himself  down  on  the  bed  and 
splendid  couch  of  his  grandson  Eteoeles.  He  disclosed  and 
recounted  the  wounds  and  the  hurts  which  Oedipus  had  in- 
flicted on  him.  And  he  shed  from  these  wounds  a  river  pool  of 
clear  crimson  blood  on  Eteoeles'  breast  and  face.  And  then  from 
his  place  and  from  his  bed  Eteoeles  arose  terror-stricken,  com- 
bative, and  full  of  fear,  and  he  was  seeking  his  brother  in  order 
to  quarrel  and  to  fight  with  him,  like  a  venomous  hostile  tiger, 
roused  from  sleep  and  long  slumber  by  the  clamour  and  the 
jollity  of  the  hunters  ranking  round  him. 

Now  it  was  the  very  end  of  the  night  and  the  beginning  of 
the  day  at  those  vast  sacrifices  of  Adrastus.  And  then  came 
Adrastus,  Polynices,  and  Tydeus  to  their  beds  and  to  their 
couches,  and  sleep  and  slumber  fell  upon  them  after  the  storm 
of  that  night.  But  the  noble  high-king,  Adrastus,  did  not  sleep; 
but  many  varied  cares  were  upon  that  man's  mind.  On  the 
morrow  they  came  into  that  very  bright  palace,  and  each  of 
them  placed  his  hand  in  the  hand  of  his  fellow.  He  pledged  his 
fellowship  and  friendship  to  his  fellow ;  and  Adrastus  brought 
41 


E.  9a  15  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i84b  1 

leis  a  tech  ar  leith  iat  .i.  Tid  -j  VoMnices,  in  nd-inad  fidiainuirlT^b" 
«.  -wricw^i-SoK.      nderrit2,  ait  a  ndenad  son  cocwr8  -j  co??iairle.   ift  is  ecZ  seo 

655adubairt  riu  :  "A  occu  ailli  érérgna,"  ar  se,  "  roi??iluaidseadar4 
na  dei  sib  dam  i»dsaigi-sea,  -j  fuaribar5  olc  -j  imnead  ac  tuidec/ii. 
Atchualabar-si,  -j  adchualadar6  Greic  archena,  da  ingi?i  choema  201 
chruthacha  do  beith  accumsa  .i.  Argia  -]  Deifilen,  -j   is  am 
toirrsech-sea  re  tinchwr  tochmair[c]  na  n-i/igen  sin,  uair  ni  fuil 

660  duiwe  sotal  sochenelach  na  fer  dearrscai[g]thech  deigf hearaind 

0  nach  tangas7  da  n-iarraid  na  n-ingen  sk  ormwsa,  uair  tancas 
iarura  a  Fair  -j  a  hÉobail  -j  a  hAchis  7  a  Sparta8  -j  a  Pissa9  164 
■j  a  hElis  do  thochmarc  na  n-i/igen  sin.   Ra-eimthius-[s]a10  sin 
uili.   Cindni??in,"  ar  se,  "  a  comshnaidm  na  desi  sin  daibsi  tre 

665  chomairli  na  ndei,  uair  is  di/?gbala  lim12,"  ar  se,  "uar  nduchus" 

1  uar  fideccenel  do  chleamnaib  accitra."  Et  o  'tchualaig  Tid 
-j  VoMnices  sin,  robai  each  dib  sel  ac  sithshilled  uar  a  chele  cia 
dib  doberad  fairech13  no  frecra  no  fritholam  fair  in  iher  sin  ar 
tus.    Cid  tra  acht  rolabair  in  fear  urlam  anacarach  .i.  Tid  dana  175 

670 derscaigthech  -j  adubairt:  "Is  mor,  am,"  ar  se,  "  ind  umla14 
1  iwn  i/nsli,  in  cheanc?sa15  -j  in  co?»airli  daitsiu  aicned  mar  sin 
acut  mraaimdi.  Uair  ni  thanic  do  rigaib  tends,  togaide  in  talman 
ri  uad  co  mor  firmdi  flaithiusa  rit-so16,  a  Adrai[s]t  uasail.  Cid 
tra  acht  is  urlum17  ailgiussach  smdi  ira  gach  ni  uas  ail18  letsu, 

675  a  Adraist,"  ar  Tid.    Et  ar  sin  ralabair  VoMnices  briathra  terca  188 
tarbacha,  -j    is   ed   so   roraid :    "  Cuich   roopabad19   cleamnus 
1  caradrad  fhir  mar  thusu  ?  -7  ge-tamait-ne  ar  echtra  -j  ar 
i/idarba,  ni  thindeanus  -j  ni  toirsi  liwdi  sin  acht  mad  sub[a] 
-j  somerana,  uair  doga[b]maid20  th'  ailgine-siu  -\  t'  onoir,  -j  is 

68oadbal  a  airfitiud21  Yind  beith  ac  comchaitheam22  do  flaithutsa 
saidbir  sochonaig  maraen  rit  fen."  A  haithli  in  chomraid  sin, 
immorro,  roergetar-sum  i  n-oenfheacht23  (col.  /3)  -\  i  n-oenfhuair 
asan  inud  sin,  -j  tucsad  a  llama  disli  deasa  a  11am 24  iron  airdrig 
uasail  Adraist,  1  rogell  Adraist  riu-so/125  co  cosenad  a  fearanc/a 

1  E.  ndiáur  2  Eg.  diamair  nderrait             3  E.  cocitr  Eg.  -som  cocar 

4  Eg.  seehtar  5  Eg.  fuarabar           6  Eg.  atcualabair-si  7  Eg.  tancus 

8  Eg.  Spara  9  Eg.  Pisa      10  Eg.  roemisa       u  Eg.  cinnem  12  Eg.  liinsa 

13  Eg.  iairech  14  Eg.  umal               1S  Eg.  ce/idsa  16  Eg.  frit-sa 

17  Eg.  urlam  18  Eg.  us  ail                  19  E.  roopabad  Eg.  rooibebatZ 

20  Eg.  dogabmaitne  21  Eg.  airmitnii«Z                 22  E.  chomchaitheam 

23  Eg.  enfecht  :4  Eg.  alama                35  Eg.  rius«/« 

42 


THE  THEBAID 

them  with  him  into  a  house  apart,  to  wit,  Tydeus  and  Polynices, 
into  a  retired  secret  place  in  which  he  might  hold  conference 
and  counsel.  And  he  said  to  them  :  "  Ye  handsome  wise  youths," 
said  he,  "  the  gods  have  guided  you  to  me,  and  ye  have  ex- 
perienced evil  and  pain  in  coming.  Ye  have  heard,  and  all 
Greeks  have  heard,  that  I  have  two  lovely  beautiful  daughters, 
Argia  and  Deipyle,  and  I  am  sad  at  the  concourse  for  the 
wooing  of  these  maidens,  for  there  is  no  spirited  well-born  man 
or  distinguished  man  of  goodly  estate  but  has  sent  a  message 
to  ask  those  maidens  of  me.  For  they  have  sent  from  Pheraeus, 
Oebalian  towns,  Achaea,  Sparta,  Pisa,  and  Elis  to  court  those 
maidens.  I  have  refused  all  those.  I  pledge,"  said  he,  "  the 
troth  of  those  twain  with  you  through  the  counsel  of  the  gods; 
for  worthy  do  I  deem,"  said  he,  "your  birthright  and  your 
good  descent  for  sons-in-law  of  mine."  And  when  Tydeus  and 
Polynices  heard  that,  each  of  them  remained  a  space  long 
looking  at  his  fellow  as  to  which  of  them  should  first  give  heed, 
answer,  or  attention  to  that  man.  Now  the  ready  unflinching 
man,  bold  distinguished  Tydeus  spoke  and  said  :  "Great  indeed," 
said  he,  "  is  the  humility  and  the  lowliness,  the  clemency  and 
the  counsel  on  thy  part,  that  thou  shouldest  have  a  feeling  like 
that  for  us.  For  of  the  strenuous  chosen  kings  of  the  earth  no 
king  that  might  have  been  so  great  in  the  righteousness  of  his 
kingdom  has  equalled  thee,  noble  Adrastus.  Yea,  we  are  ready 
and  eager  in  everything  that  is  thy  will,  Adrastus,"  said 
Tydeus.  And  after  that  Polynices  spoke  a  few  profitable  words, 
and  said :  "  Who  could  refuse  the  affinity  and  friendship  of  a  man 
like  thee  ?  And  though  we  are  in  exile  and  banishment,  we 
deem  that  no  matter  of  haste  and  no  sadness,  but  as  it  were  a 
joy  and  encouragement,  for  we  get  pleasantness  and  honour 
from  thee  and  we  deem  it  a  vast  satisfaction  to  be  sharing  thy 
rich  and  prosperous  kingdom  along  with  thyself."  After  that 
conversation,  moreover,  they  arose  at  the  same  time  and  hour 
out  of  that  place,  and  they  put  their  own  right  hands  into  the 
hand  of  the  noble  high-king  Adrastus ;  and  Adrastus  promised 
43 


E.  9b  4  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  185a  2 

685  disli  digbala  duchwsa  doib,  -j  is  ed  on  rocomailled  si?;  ni  as  moT  ^b' 
nar-gell1.  200 

Cid  tra  acht  rohi/idised  sin  do  lucht  na  cathrach  cuanda 
comdaingni  .i.  Larisa,  -j  adclos  clu  na  cleamnad  sin  cua[n]na 
coimithech2  sin  do  beith  acin  rig,  -j  irnaid??i3  na  n-i?igen  erergna 

69oilchrothaigi4.    Argi[a]  án  don  fhir  ar  tus  .i.  do  VoMnices,  mac  202 
Eidip.  Et  ua  hi»gnadh  delb  na  hingine,  -j  ua  hi  ceitgen5  cloindi 
rigda6  Adráist  hi.    Et  rohiwdised  inn  óg  digai»d  dathgel  deig- 
denmach  .i.  Deifile7  do  cheangal  re  cheli  coraadais  di  .i.  Tid, 
mac  Oenius.    Et  adclos  ua  na8  cn'chaib  ciana  comaidchi9  in 

695  seel  sin,  •]   adclos  dano  co  slebtib   leathnaib    Liac,  -j   cosna  206 
nddromandaib  fairsifjgi  primda  Partecda,  -j  ua  oirechtaib  aiblib 
Isilecdaib,  -j  o  Thragia  atuaid  c[o]  Easalia10  uadeas,  -\  o  sruth 
adbul^thondsolus    Nem11  anair  co  rind  mara  Adraist   siar, 
-j   cosna  bruigib12  ailli  urarda  Eparda,  -j  co  treuaib  togaidi 

7ooTiauanda  co  romesc  -]  co  ramedair  in  rig  n-ocol13  n-anuarasta 
.i.  Etiocles,  in  seel  sin  do  cloistecht. 

Cid  tra  acht  o  thamc  la  cona  lanshoillsi,  rohordaiged  -j  ro- 
hurlumaiged  bandsi  firfina14.    Rochomlinad  -\  roc/mmdaigit15  213 
na  hiwleasa  rigda  rofhairsingi16  d'  airechtaib  suarca  subacha 

705  gasraidi17  Grec.  Ua  medugiid  menman,-]  ua  hiradtocuail  aiceanta 
risin  rigraid  n-arnaid  n-aiccendta  n-allata  .i.  fuireochros  fegtha 
-]  fairgseana18  arna  delbaib  rigda  riwnta  a  n-athar19  -j  a  seanathar 
badar  ar  sleasaib  suaichinti20  in  tigi  cuan[n]a21  cnmda,igthi  sin. 
Et  ua  hiat  so  araill  dona  rigaib  isa  delba  rori?;dad  and  .i.  Inach'us  218 

7iouasal,  cosa  mberthea  croeba  coibniusa  na  nGrec  uili,  1  Iasius 
seanorda  sruitheta22,  -]   Foroneus23  sithamail  sochreitmeach, 
-j   Abas24  cosnumaid  cathbuadach,  -\  Acresius  lai/idech  lan- 
mewmnach,  1   Corebus  curata  coscurach,   -j   Danaus  felltach  222 
firmeblach25,  -j  dawo  batar  delba  dathchai»e  deigdeinmacha 

7i5Ímda  aile  isin  tig  sin. 

1  Eg.  is  mo  na  mar  do  gheall  2  Eg.  comithidech  3  Eg.  forsnaidm 

4  Eg.  n-ilebrotbacb  B  Eg.  ua  i  ceígen  6  Eg.  in  righ 

7  Eg.  Deifele  8  Eg.  fana  9  Eg.  coratighi  10  Eg.  Axsalia 

11  Eg.  Neim      12  E.  bruidib     Eg.  brugaib        13  Eg.  n-occoZ        14  Eg.  f-a  n«a 
15  E.  rocbumgaigit     Eg.  rocbumdaigbedh  18  Eg.  rofairsenga 

"  E.  gasraigi      1B  Eg.  fairsena      19  Eg.  rindta  i  n-atbar      20  Eg.  suaicbinta 
21  Eg.  cuan/ia  22  Eg.  sruitbeda  23  Eg.  Foraneus  2i  Eg.  Abás 

25  Eg.  feltacb  firgalacb 

44 


THE  THEBAID 

them  that  he  would  maintain  for  them  their  own  diminishing 
inherited  estates,  and  that  is  a  thing  wherein  he  performed 
more  than  he  had  promised. 

Now  that  was  told  to  the  people  of  the  fine  fortified  city  of 
Larissa,  and  the  fame  was  heard  of  that  fine  foreign  alliance 
existing  with  the  king,  and  the  betrothal  of  the  very  wise 
maidens  of  many  charms  :  splendid  Argia  to  the  first  one, 
Polynices  son  of  Oedipus.  And  wonderful  was  the  form  of  the 
maiden,  and  she  was  the  first-born  of  the  royal  children  of 
Adrastus.  And  it  was  told  of  the  plump  fair-hued  goodly  shaped 
virgin  Deipyle,  that  she  was  joined  to  a  spouse  suitable  for 
her,  Tydeus  son  of  Oeneus.  And  that  tale  was  heard  through 
the  far  foreign  confines,  and  it  Was  heard  too  as  far  as  the 
broad  moors  of  Lycaeus  and  throughout  the  wide  excellent 
Parthenian  wooded  ridges  and  amid  vast  Isthmian  assemblies, 
and  from  Thrace  in  the  North  to  Thessaly  in  the  South,  and 
from  the  vast  wAve3mght  river  of  Nemea  in  the  East  to  the 
brink  of  the  Adriatic  sea  towards  the  West,  and  to  the  beautiful 
lofty  abodes  of  Ephyre,  and  to  choice  dwellings  of  Thebans,  so 
that  it  disturbed  and  filled  with  foreboding  the  bold  restless 
king  Eteocles,  to  hear  that  tale. 

Now  when  day  came  with  its  full  light,  wedding  feasts  of 
true  wine  were  ordered  and  prepared.  The  royal  very  wide 
halls  were  filled  and  adorned  with  pleasant  and  joyous  assemblies 
of  Greek  youth.  It  was  a  broadening  of  mind  and  a  glorifying 
of  nature  for  the  hard  patrimonial  famous  kingfolk,  to  wit,  the 
close  attention  of  looking  and  gazing  at  the  engraved  royal 
pictures  of  their  fathers  and  their  grandfathers  that  were  upon 
the  well-known  sides  of  that  fine  well-built  house.  And  these 
were  some  of  the  kings  whose  pictures  were  engraved  there, 
to  wit,  noble  Inachus  up  to  whom  are  brought  the  genealogical 
trees  of  all  the  Greeks,  and  old  venerable  Iasius,  and  peaceful 
believing  Phoroneus,  and  the  battle-victorious  conqueror  Abas, 
and  wrathful  full-spirited  Acrisius,  and  heroic  slaughtering 
Coroebus,  and  treacherous  truly  shameful  Danaus,  and  also 
there  were  many  other  beautifully  coloured  well-executed 
pictures  in  that  house. 

45 


E.  9b  42  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i85b  3 

Cid  tra  acht  ua  fograch  fraigthi  na  firmaminti  re  muirn    ]j  ' 

I  re  mormesci  na  milead  ac  ol  isin  tig  si??1.  Et  ua  hadual  re 
indisin  comrada  ciuine  cosnoraacha  na  n-ingen  nGrecda  ftgru- 
adsolus  ac  ol  -j  aibnius  isin  tig  sin.    Et  robid  gach  bean  builid 

720  bratchorcra  ac  bibsugud  7  bansignd2  re  hingenaib  ailli  Adraist 
andsin,  comad  lugaiti3  ecla  -j  uruaman  na  fer  cuancfa  coimi-  229 
thech  si»  orro4. 

Et  is  andsin  tangadar  reompo  na  hingena  nuaglana  narecha 
glegela  gruadcorcra  .i.  Argía  -j  Déifilen.   Et  cosnigtis  frasa  der-  231 

725  mara5  (p.  10)  der  dar  aichtib  na  n-ingen  [sin  Eg.]  rimet  nanaire 
inn  uair  si??.  Ua  huruath6  mar,  -j  ua  hemeltius,  -j  ua  himsni???, 
-]  ua  huirecla  leosowi  caill  a  nn-oigi  -j  a  n-ingenais  dona  feraib 
sin.  Oir  ni  rabadar  ar  tuind  talma»  in  tan  sin  da  ingin  uad  ind- 
rucu  anc/at  sin7.    Air  is  anilaid  batar-sum,  cendcha????a  cosmaile 

730  sulglasa  sainearala  gruadchorcra  g?'?bglana8  belchorcra  banamla 
detgela  dianim  lamgela  laichthecha9  co  sliastaib  semidib,  co 
colpthaib  c?t?naidib,  co  traigthib  tanaidib,  co  salaib  sarchruindi9. 
Cid  tra  acht  gid  fata  robeth  fer  fiamach  firglic  ac  mideamain  na  240 
n-ingen  sin,  ni  fhit?V  ca  ragu10  doberad  dib  ara  cainie  -j  ara  cos- 

735  maili. 

Is  ancfei??,  immorro,  ua  himcnwnafig  maigi11  -j  tigi  -|  coillti  ac 
gasradaib  gusmara  Grec  ac  idbairt  -7  ac  onorugiid  bai/idsi  na  n- 
i??gen  sin  Adraist.  Et  o  rauatar-snm  amlaid  si«,  atchualatar 
buaidread  -\  breasmaidm  isna  feadaib  -j  isna  fidnemedaib  umpu, 

740  -|  ua  cowartha  duba  -j  dobroin  dona  bandsib  accu-suin  sin  ar- 
toin.   Asa  haili12  sin,  immorro,  tangadar  mna13  in  tire  -j  in  talma?? 
i  tempull  merglan  Menerua,  uair  is  ed  ua  bes14  aco-snm  in  tan  255 
siw,na  hi??gena  oga  ra-foetitis15  re  feraib,  rotheasctais  ni  da  faltib 
isin  tempull  sin  Menerba  i  coniartha  genmnaideacAia16.     Et  o 

745  thangadar-som  isin  tempoll  sin,  rothoitestar  fadbairm  -\  etig 
Eoraip,  rig  na  hArcaide,  adrochair  ri17  hAdraist  fecht  riam  remi  258 
sin,  1  rothoitsetar  air?n  -j  ilfhsebair  archena  batar  isin  t&nvpull 

1  Eg.  isin  grianan  glansholitts  in  tigi  sin         2  Eg.  ac  aibhnius...biubsugud 

7  ic  bainnsiugud  3  E.  ludaiti  4  Eg.  comthaideacha  sin  oito  E.  omi 
sin       5  Eg.  dermaire       6  Eg.  hurfuath        '•  Eg.  ingin  aili  innruca  anait  sin 

8  Eg.  gribh         9  Eg.  baichthecha         9_9  Eg.  om.         10  Eg.  caidhi  in  rogha 

II  Eg.  muigbi  12  ar  toin  Eg.  om.  E.  asa  haithli  13  Eg.  mná 
14  Eg.  fa  bés  15  Eg.  ócca  rofaidbfidis...rotescaigbdis  16  Eg.  id. 
E.  genmnaigeackta                17  Eg.  itorchair  re 

46 


THE  THEBAID 

Now  the  walls  of  the  firmament  were  resonant  with  the 
clamour  and  great  intoxication  of  the  soldiers  drinking  in  that 
house.  And  it  were  much  to  relate  the  gentle  winning  conver- 
sations of  the  bright-cheeked  Greek  maidens  as  they  drank  and 
enjoyed  in  that  house.  And  every  blooming  purple-clad  woman 
was  sipping  and  talking  of  espousing  to  Adrastus'  beautiful 
daughters  there,  that  they  might  have  the  less  fear  and  dread  of 
the  handsome  strange  men. 

And  then  came  forward  the  fresh  and  bright,  modest,  pure- white, 
crimson-cheeked  maidens,  Argia  and  Deipyle.  A  nd  great  showers 
of  tears  kept  dripping  over  the  faces  of  the  maidens  owing  to 
the  greatness  of  their  modesty  at  that  hour.  It  was  an  exceeding 
great  terror,  misgiving,  anxiety  and  fear  with  them  to  lose  their 
virginity  and  their  maidenhood  to  these  men.  For  there  were 
not  on  earth's  surface  at  that  time  two  maidens  that  were  more 
worthy  than  those.  For  thus  were  they  with  beautiful  heads, 
alike,  grey-eyed,  distinguished,  crimson-cheeked,  bright-fingered, 
crimson-lipped,  womanly,  with  white  teeth,  stainless,  white- 
handed,  high  bred,  with  fine  thighs,  shapely  calves,  slender  feet, 
and  finely  rounded  heels.  Nay,  though  a  modest  and  very  wise 
man  were  long  contemplating  those  maidens,  he  would  not  know 
what  choice  he  should  make  between  them  owing  to  their  beauty 
and  their  similarity. 

It  was  then,  however,  that  plains,  houses  and  woods  were  very 
narrow  for  the  powerful  Greek  youths  as  they  sacrificed  and  did 
honour  to  the  wedding  of  those  daughters  of  Adrastus.  And 
when  they  were  thus,  they  heard  a  disturbance  and  a  crash  in 
the  woods  and  in  the  groves  about  them,  and  it  was  a  sign  of 
gloom  and  sorrow  to  those  weddings  of  theirs  afterwards.  After 
that,  however,  the  women  of  the  country  and  the  land  came  into 
Minerva's  joyous  and  pure  temple,  for  this  was  their  custom  at 
that  time,  that  the  young  maidens  who  were  to  be  united  to 
husbands,  should  cut  off  some  of  their  locks  in  that  temple  of 
Minerva  as  a  sign  of  chastity.  And  when  they  had  come  into 
that  temple,  the  weapons  of  spoil  and  dress  of  Euhippus,  the 
king  of  Arcadia,  who  had  fallen  by  Adrastus  some  time  before 
that,  fell ;  and  arms  and  many-edged  sharp  weapons  besides,  that 
47 


E.  ioa  31  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  186*  6 

sin,  -j  rocnrithnaigseadar  riu  stocfhograigthi  dermar1  dofhol-Th^b* 
achta  as  gach  aird  da  n-indsaigid.    Ua2  derbairdeada  demnacha 

750  sin,  -j  ua  figrad3  firuilc,  -j  roimpatar-snm  ammach  dochum  in  rig  262 
0  'tchualatar-snm  na  hidna  uruada  sin,  -j  nir-indisetar4  don  rig 
si»  acht  rouadar  fen  a[c]  crithxigud5  coraraid  etnrru  fen,  -j  robai 
airrdi6  urbada  aili  ancfem,  uair  is  amlaid  robai  ingen  Argia  .i. 
banchele  YoMnices,  mic  Eidip,  -]   cnmtach  alaind   orda   ima  266 

755  bragait  .i.  muntorc  alaind  ifigantach  Hermione7.    Ua  feochair 
firchruthach  in  fWthi  sin,  ua  haindsech8  -j  ua  hurbadach  inn 
aiscid  sin  do  cech  oen  ac  a  m[b]id.    Uair  is  e  Ulchan  uruadach, 
gaba  imneadach  ifrin,  roairic  in  gram  sin,  -j   is  di  dorigni  269 
Ulcan  in  cumdach  n-orda  si»  .i.  d'  Ermione,  d'  ingin  Mairt, 

760  mic  Ioib,  da  dei  in  chatha,  -j  Uenerech  bandei  na  toili,  -j  is  ime 
tuc-sum  sin  disi  dar  ulcaib9  ria.  Uair  ua  hi  caemchele  Ulcan 
Uenir  u&nchumacht&ch,  -j  is  tar  cend  Ulchai»  doroigne  Mairt 
i»n  ingin  Ermione  re  Uenir.  Conid  i?nmi  sin  darigni10  Ulcan 
in  set  sir[bh]uan  sonashercach11  sin  re  silliud  sechtair  fair  co 

765  nemib  nathrach,  co  lingur  loiscend12,  co  (col.  /3)  salchar  slama13 
tened  -j  saignen,  co  mongaib  dubglasa  duaibsecha  draco»14,  co  279 
leccaib  lasamna  loiscthecha  ar  medon  and.   Comma15  ruited  re 
duba,  -j  coma  fiuchtugnd  fergi,  1  coma,  grendugwd  galair  do 
gach  oen  aca  mbid.    Et  is  i  cetna  nech  ara  rimir16  a  hairmerta17 

770  uruada  .i.  Ermione,  banchele  chuanda  Chathim,  mic  Agenoir,  290 
-]  is  les-[s]ide  roc/mmdaiged  in  Teib  ar  tus  riam.   A[r]  rasoed18 
in  bean  si»  i  nnathraig  ngranda  ngeranaig  aroen  re  Cathim, 
mac  Agenoir,  co  mbitis  aroen  ac  sirfhetgaire  isna   moigib 
cuan[d]a  caithmecda.    Et  asa  haithli  sin  rosiacht  in  muntorc  sin 

775  co  Semile,  ingin  Cathim,  mic  Agenoir,  -j  is  di-siite  tuc  Ioib  292 
in  grad  ndermar19.    Et  ni  luaithi  ranic  in  muntorc  si/?   da 
hmdsaigid  na  tha?dc  Iunaind,  ingean  Shatuirn  .i.  bean  Ioib, 
d'  indsaigid  na  hingine  i  rricht  a  mumi20,  -\  is  ed  adubairt  re 
Semila:  "  Cundig-siu,"  ar  si21,  "comairle  -\   coniriachtain  rit 

1  Eg.  dermair        2  Eg.  Fa         3  Eg.  fidraclh         4  Eg.  chum  an  righ...nir- 
innsitar  5  Eg.  crithnugud  6  Eg.  airgeda  7  Eg.  Herimoine 

8  Eg.  hainnsgleacha  9  Eg.  uime...dise...ar  ulc(aib)  10  Eg.  deroighne 

11  Eg.  sirbhuan  sirshercach  12  Eg.  colingor  loisc'md  13  Eg.  slaim 

14  Eg.  draccain  15  Eg.  comadh  16  E.  _Ajv\j\iif\   Eg.  rimir 

17  Eg.  hairmberta     18  Eg.  Arosoadh     19  Eg.  ndermair     20  Eg.  tSbatrainrf... 
buime  21  E.  se 

48 


THE  THEBAID 

were  in  that  temple,  fell ;  and  very  loud  intolerable  trumpet- 
blasts  hurtled  at  them  from  every  quarter  concentrating  on  them. 
Those  were  diabolic  portents  and  an  omen  of  veritable  evil ;  and 
they  turned  forth  unto  the  king  when  they  heard  those  baleful 
weapons,  and  they  did  not  tell  that  to  the  king,  but  they  them- 
selves were  holding  a  trembling  conversation  among  themselves. 
And  there  were  other  baleful  signs  there,  for  thus  was  maiden 
Argia,  spouse  of  Polynices,  son  of  Oedipus,  with  a  beautiful 
golden  ornament  about  her  neck,  to  wit,  Harmonia's  beautiful 
wonderful  necklace.  Wild  and  very  shapely  was  that  find,  fateful 
and  baleful  was  that  gift  to  every  one  who  had  it.  For  it  was 
baleful  Vulcan,  Hell's  woeful  smith,  who  invented  that  work, 
and  Vulcan  made  that  golden  ornament  for  Harmonia,  to  wit, 
the  daughter  of  Jove's  son  Mars,  the  war  god,  and  of  Venus, 
the  goddess  of  love ;  and  therefore  did  he  give  that  to  her  in 
order  to  cause  her  ills.  For  Venus,  mighty  lady,  was  Vulcan's 
lovely  spouse ;  and  in  Vulcan's  despite,  Mars  got  that  daughter 
Harmonia  by  Venus.  So  that  for  that  reason,  Vulcan  made 
that  everlasting  gem  bringing  happy  love  by  looking  at  the 
outside  of  it,  of  serpents'  venoms,  toads'  poison,  filth  of  slime 
of  fire  -er  of  lightning,  dark-grey  dusky  manes  of  dragons,  and 
flaming  blazing  stones  in  the  midst.  So  that  it  was  a  blush  to 
gloom,  it  was  boiling  of  rage,  it  was  a  challenging  of  disease  to 
every  one  that  had  it.  And  the  first  person  on  whom  it  plied  its 
baleful  qualities  was  Harmonia,  comely  spouse  of  Cadmus,  son 
of  Agenor,  by  whom  Thebes  was  first  built  of  yore.  For  that 
woman  was  turned  into  an  ugly  complaining  serpent  along  with 
Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor,  so  that  they  were  together  everlastingly 
hissing  in  the  fine  wasted  plains.  And  thereafter  that  necklace 
reached  Semele,  daughter  of  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor;  and  to  her 
Jove  made  warmest  love.  And  no  sooner  had  that  necklace 
reached  her  than  Juno,  daughter  of  Saturn,  to  wit,  Jove's  wife, 
came  to  the  maiden  in  the  guise  of  her  nurse,  and  this  is  what 
she  said  to  Semele :  "  Ask  thou,"  said  she,  "  communion  and  a 
c.  49  4 


E.  iob  19  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  186b  /9 

78oisiw   de[ijlb    i    comraiceand1   re    hlunaiwd."     Et    rochuiwdig    ,j 
Samilia  amlaid  si?;  ar  Ioib  corariachtam  ria,  -j  rocomroic  Ioib 
ria-si  a  richt  saignen  telctech2  tendtide,  amal  danid  re  hlu??aind 
cu  raloiscead  fochetoir  Semile,  uair  nir-fhaelastar-si  del[l]rud 
na  diadacAia  doben  ria.    Et  is  tre  bithin  in  muntoirc  sin  rolot 

785  loscend  in  n-iwgen  sin,  amar  fhorglit  na  faibli3  guacha  gendtligi 
sin.    Et  indister  co  roibi  in  ciimdach  co?nthnudach  colach  sin  294 
ac  Iochasta,  mathair  VoMnices,  -\  is  trena  bithin  sin   roui-si 
acca  mac  uaden  .i.  ac  Eidip,  co  rue4  da  mac  do  .1.  Ethiocles 
1  YoMnices.   Et  tuc  Voiinices  ar  sin  he  da  banchele  uadem  .i.  297 

79°  do  Argia,  da  ingin,  alamd  Adraist.  Ua  dereoil  -j  ua  dimici»  re 
siair-si  .i.  Deifile5,  a  cumdach  brigach  bandsi  ac  fegad  in 
muntuirc  iiigantaich6  orda  sin.  Et  o'tchondairc,  immorro,  Erifile, 
csemchele  Amfiarus,  i»ni  sin,  tucasdáir  saint  sirchui/idcheda 
air,  co  nar-bh  [fh]earrdi  le  a  bethu  na  iúgnais.    Et  tuc  Argia 

795  disi  in  n-aiscid  siw,  -]  rochuir7  si  iar  sin  Ampiarus  ar  éigin 
docfaim  in  chatha  araon  re  hAdraist  -j  re  Polinices  gusna 
sluagaibh  -j  gusna  secht  righaibh6  do  tabairt  in  chatha  i  nd- 
aghat'd  na  Tiabanda  -j  Eitiocle?'s.  Rocuired  iartoi?;  in  cath, 
1   romeabhaid  for  Ad?-aist  -j  for  PoiKmces,  -j   romarb£/?a  na 

800  secht  righa  and  -|  Poilinices,  ■]  ní  taineic  dubie  'na  bethaid  as 
acht  Adraist  a  aonar9,  -j  robaidhedh  Aimpiaras.  Almeon,  dono, 
mac  Aimpiarus  romarbh  seic  a  mathair  ,i.  Erifilié10 ;  ar  as  si 
fodera  a  hathair  do  bhádhwd  .i.  Aimpiams.  Roghabh  iar  sin 
cuthach  Almeo??  a  haithli  a  mathar  do  marbad11  dó.   Rotothlai<7 

805  iar  sin  a  ben  for  Almeon  .i.  Cailliore  isidhe,  in  muntorc  ;  (p.  11) 
ar  roba  doigh  lé  co  bfuigbed  sé  slái»te  da  scarad  an  mu»dtorc 
ris.  Tugad  dise  hé  iar  sin  in  mundtorc,  -]  aráoi12  ni  móite 
fuair-siom  sláivíte.  Taineic  iar  sin  athair  a  mathar  go  hAlmeon 
.i.  Pleigh,  -j  romarbh ustar  Almeon  .i.  mac13  a  ingi?ie,  a  cinta  a 

Sioingine, mathar  Almeon  fén.  Rotothlaig ben  Almeon14 .i.  Calloire, 
ar  Ióip  co  rocoimAefad15  a  da  mac  bega  di  co  tisadh  dhibh  di- 
ghailt16  a  n-athar,  Re?;17  -j  Soc  a  n-anmanda-sidhe.  Atrachtatar- 
sidhe  iar  sin,  -j  rotinólabar-sidhe18  sluagh  mor  dermháir  dochum 

1  Eg.  a  comraigend...rocui«gid-sam  2  Eg.  telcthaig  3  Eg.  faidle 

4  Eg.  ruca  5  Eg.  Defilen  (no  Deifile)  6  Eg.  ingantaig  7  line  795  et  rochuir... 
ncir  hand  begins  8  Eg.  cusna  vn  righaibh  cona  sluaghaibh  9  Eg.  a  senur 
10  MS.  Énifilié  Eg.  Enefile  "  E.  Eg.  a  hathair  12  Eg.  ar  ái  13  Eg.  .i.  14 
14  Eg.  setid  Aim-  16  E.  co  ro  coied  Eg.  co  rocoimetcrf/i  16  Eg.  indechadh 
17  Eg.  re        18  Eg.  rotinolutar 

50 


THE  THEBAID 

visit  to  thee  in  the  form  in  which  he  visits  Juno."  And  Semele 
asked  of  Jove  to  visit  her  thus,  and  Jove  visited  her  in  the 
guise  of  broadcast  fiery  lightning,  as  he  usually  did  to  Juno,  so 
that  Semele  was  at  once  burnt,  for  she  could  not  endure  the 
blaze  of  the  divinity  that  touched  her.  And  it  was  because  of 
that  necklace  that  a  toad  wounded  that  maiden,  as  those  lying- 
heathen  fables  testify.  And  it  is  told  that  Jocasta,  mother  of 
Polynices,  had  that  invidious  sinful  ornament ;  and  it  was  by 
that  means  that  her  own  son,  to  wit,  Oedipus,  had  her  to  wife, 
and  that  she  bore  him  two  sons,  to  wit,  Eteocles  and  Polynices. 
And  thereafter  Polynices  gave  it  to  his  own  spouse,  Argia, 
Adrastus'  beautiful  daughter.  Mean  and  contemptible  in  the 
eyes  of  her  sister  Deipyle,  were  her  own  substantial  bridal 
ornaments,  as  she  gazed  at  that  huge  golden  necklace.  And 
moreover  when  Eriphyle,  Amphiaraus'  fair  spouse,  had  seen 
that  thing,  an  ever  craving  lust  for  it  seized  her,  so  that  she 
preferred  not  her  life  apart  from  it.  And  Argia  gave  her  that 
gift,  and  thereafter  she  sent  Amphiaraus  by  force  unto  the  war 
along  with  Adrastus  and  Polynices  with  the  hosts  and  the  seven 
kings,  to  carry  on  the  war  against  the  Thebans  and  Eteocles. 
Thereafter  battle  was  joined,  and  Adrastus  and  Polynices  were 
defeated,  and  the  seven  kings  and  Polynices  were  slain  there, 
and  no  man  came  out  of  it  alive  save  Adrastus  alone;  and 
Amphiaraus  was  drowned.  As  for  Alcmaeon,  again,  son  of 
Amphiaraus,  he  slew  his  mother,  Eriphyle ;  for  it  was  she  that 
caused  his  father,  to  wit,  Amphiaraus,  to  be  drowned.  Thereupon 
madness  seized  Alcmaeon  after  his  mother  was  killed  by  him. 
After  that  his  wife,  to  wit,  Callirrhoe  was  she,  desired  of 
Alcmaeon  the  necklace ;  for  she  thought  it  likely  that  he  would 
obtain  health,  if  the  necklace  were  parted  from  him.  After  that 
the  necklace  was  given  her,  and  for  all  that  none  the  more 
did  he  obtain  health.  After  that  his  mother's  father,  to  wit, 
Phegeus,  came  to  Alcmaeon,  and  he  slew  Alcmaeon,  to  wit,  his 
daughter's  son,  for  the  crimes  of  his  daughter,  Alcmaeon's  own 
mother.  Alcmaeon's  wife,  Callirrhoe,  requested  of  Jove  that  he 
would  guard  her  two  little  sons  for  her  until  they  could  avenge 
their  father;  Amphoterus  and  Acarnan  were  their  names.  After 
that  they  arose,  and  gathered  a  great,  an  exceeding  great,  host 
51  4—2 


E.  nag  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  187*  u 

Pleighi,    -]    rofuagratar    cath    fair.      Rotinoil    dono    Vleigi    a    jj 

815  muinntir  -j  a  milerfa.  Aráoi1  rocuindeigh  V\eigi  cairde  bh'adna 
forna  macaibh  ga»  cath2  do  cur  ris.  Adubratar-sawA  dobher- 
dáois3  da  mbeith  a  chend-sam  aca-samh  risi»  mbh'adam  sin 
arná  búain  da  raéidhe.  Adubhairt  Plet'^i  nach  tibhrad  a  cend 
dóibh  da  dheoi??.    Rocuirsit  iar  sin  cath4  go  fichdo  feochair 

820  fergach  leth  for  leth,  *j  romarbad  sluagh  dirim  diairmhe  etorra. 
Aráoi  romeabaid  in  cath  for  Pleiai,  *j  rosiac/ííatar  da  mac 
Almeon  chuige,  -j  adubhratar  ris :  "  In  tucais  let,"  ar  siat, 
"  Almeon  V  "  Ní  tucus,"  ar  sé,  "-\  da  mbeith  agum  [atrasta5  Eg.], 
doberoind."    Robensat  iar  sin  moca  Almeon  a  cend  do  Vieigi, 

825  1  tucsat  ár  dermháir  for  a  muinntir  macaibh  m/mibh.  Tancatar 
iar  sin  da  tigh  ar  mbreith6  buada  -j  coscair. 

Finit  do  seel  a/;  muwdtuirc7. 
Asa  haithle  si?;  immorro*  rochuir  Polinicsés  ag  cino7  bliadna,  306 
techt&ire  dochum  a  bhráthor  .i.  Eitioclés,  Tit  ainm  an  techtaire, 

830  -j  adubhairt  an  tec/<£aire  iris  in  flait[h]es  do  leigen9  da  bhráthair. 
Roghabh  ferg10  mor  Eitiocles,  -]  adubhairt  in  ní  tárim'd  ní  leic- 
fedh  uadha,  -\  ní  dhénadh  cert  na  dligedh  uime  acht  muna 
rucadh  iomarcvait  tsluaigh  no  catha  uadha  é.  "  Ocus  nocha 
denaim-si,"  ar  se,  "  fich  na  formad  am  airdchendus  na  Greigi 

835  uili    tré   charadrad  an   rig  Adraist,  -j   leigid   dam-sa   bruigi 
cairrgeacha  cumga,  na  Teibi  tondglaisi.    Et  is  iris  limsa  gor-ip 
e  in'  athai'r11  Eidip,  -]  bid  d'  aitrebachaib  aigi-sim,"  ar  se,  "  .i. 
Pelops  mor,  mac  Tantail,  -]  Ioif,  mac  sona  Saduirnd.    Et  is  436 
misi,"  ar  se,  "  rachleac/iisad  ant  oireacAi-sa  orra,  -\  ni  hail  leó,"  442 

840  a!-  se,  "  fomamugíífZ12  do  choraid  chundtabartach  acht  beith  ag 
aerorig  dilis  derrscaigtheach13,  uair  each  fiaithus  na  ba  feidil, 
ni  choiglend  do  chineadaib.  Et  nach  faiceanu  tusa  ant  aduath 
-]  in  n-egla14  ata  ar  m'  oiracht-sa,  ar  mo  dul-sa  dib?  Et  dono  ni 
leigfid  maithi  na  treb  Tiaba/ida  misi  dib  itir,  na  rigi  do  thabairt 

845  dosum."  Acht  trá  ni  rodamwstair15  do  Thid  a  chloistec/ii  na 
eistec/íí  risna  baithcheileabraib  briathar  sin  Eitiocleis. 

1  Eg.  ar  ai       2  Eg.  cin  chath       3  Eg.  doberdis       4  E.  kth       5  Eg.  ^cf  A 
6  Eg.  ar  mbrigh         7  Eg.  andsin  8  Eg.  u        9  Eg.  lecin        10  Eg.  fercc 

11  E.  gu  rop  e  m'athair      12  Eg.  fomadrnugud     13  Eg.  a  beth  dersgnaigthech 
E.  derrscaidtheach         lá  Eg.  adhfuath...uregla        1S  Eg.  rodamastar 

52 


THE  THEBAID 

unto  Phegeus ;  and  they  declared  war  on  him.  Phegeus,  again, 
gathered  his  household  and  his  soldiers.  Nevertheless  Phegeus 
asked  of  the  sons  a  year's  truce  with  no  war  waged  on  him. 
They  said  that  they  would  give  it,  if  they  might  have  his  head 
shorn  from  his  neck  within  that  year.  Phegeus  said  that  he 
would  not  give  them  his  head  with  his  consent.  After  that  they 
joined  battle  furiously,  wildly,  wrathfully  side  on  side,  and  an 
uncounted  countless  host  was  killed  between  them.  Never- 
theless Phegeus  was  defeated,  and  the  two  sons  of  Alcmaeon 
came  up  to  him, and  said  to  him:  "Hast  thou  brought  Alcmaeon 
with  thee  ?  "  said  they.  "  I  have  not,"  said  he,  "  but  if  I  had  him 
now,  I  should  bring  him."  After  that  Alcmaeon's  sons  struck 
off  Phegeus'  head,  and  inflicted  exceeding  great  slaughter  upon 
his  following,  including  children  and  women.  Thereafter  they 
came  home,  having  carried  off  victory  and  triumph. 

Flint  to  the  tale  of  the  necklace. 
After  that,  however,  at  the  end  of  a  year,  Polynices  sent 
a  messenger  to  his  brother  Eteocles — the  name  of  the  messenger 
was  Tydeus — and  the  messenger  told  him  to  give  up  the  king- 
dom to  his  brother.  Great  anger  seized  Eteocles,  and  he  said 
that  what  he  had  seized  he  would  not  let  go,  and  he  would 
not  do  right  or  reason  respecting  it,  unless  superiority  in 
numbers  or  in  battle  should  take  it  from  him.  "  And  I  raise," 
said  he,  "no  feud  or  jealousy  about  the  high  headship  of  all 
Greece  through  the  friendship  of  king  Adrastus,  provided 
ye  leave  to  me  the  rocky  narrow  farms  of  greenswarded 
Thebes.  And  my  belief  is  that  my  father  was  Oedipus ;  and 
there  are  of  his  compeers,  to  wit,  great  Pelops,  son  of  Tantalus, 
and  Jove,  happy  son  of  Saturn.  And  it  is  I,"  said  he,  "  that  this 
people  were  used  to  have  over  them,  and  they  do  not  wish," 
said  he,  "  to  be  under  the  sway  of  a  doubtful  leader  but  to 
belong  to  one  distinguished  king  of  their  own ;  for  every  kingdom 
that  will  not  be  constant,  is  not  sparing  of  tribes.  And  dost  thou 
not  see  the  terror  and  the  fear  that  lie  upon  my  people  at  my 
going  from  them  ?  And,  indeed,  the  nobles  of  the  Theban  tribes 
will  not  let  me  away  at  all,  or  let  me  give  the  kingdom  to  him." 
But  then  Tydeus  could  not  endure  to  hear  or  listen  to  those 
foolish  wordy  chirpings  of  Eteocles. 

53 


E.  II*  42  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  187b  12 

Is  andsi»   immorro  adubairt  Titt :    "  Dobera,"  ar  se,   "  an    f*  ' 
flaithus  uaid,  ~\  gid  tri  muir  adbalmora1  iaraind  robeidis  ad  453 
timcheall  arna  cnmtach  do  Impion  airigda  -j  is  eiside  cetduine 

850  risar-(col.  /3)-c«?7idaigead  miir  na  Teibi  ar  tus,  -\  ni  denad2  acht 
a  chruit  cheolbi?;d  choguasta  do  sheinra  -j  ticdis  croind  -\  clocha 
ua  cheql  a  chruiti-siítra3  co  teigdis  aran  múr4.  Et  cid  airm 
-\  ilfaab^--]  teinti  an  talma»,  ni  dad  t'aincfed  co  rabais5  marbtha 
mudaigthi6  o  r  n-armaib-ni7.    Et  biaid  do  miwdrig  at  egmais 

855  arse??  re  d'  chena\    Et  is  tnmigi  lem,"  ar  se,  "an  digal  doberthar 
arna  ceitherwaib  croda  Caradonda  dobera  let  isin  chath  ad 
t'arrad  bodei» 8.    Uch  tra,"  ar  se  Tit,  "  bud  adbal  na  háir  -j  na  460 
hesraidi  ar  slesaib  sleibi  Chithe?-ón,  -j  biaid  tuili  falcmar  fala 
i  sruth  alaind  Ismén  don  chorarac  sin.    Et  ni  hingnad  lem," 

860 ar  se,  "each  ole  dodentái,  uair  bá  croda9  colach  each  ci?;eadh10 
or-gei??eadbah',   -j    ni    fhuil   do   Tiabandaib  uili  dui/ie  nach 
indtamlaigena711  da  athat'r  a  n-ulc  acht  mad12  Poilinicseis.    Et  a 
Eithtiocles,  (digeltar  ortsa),"  ar  se,  "  th'  ulc  féin  can  rigi  na  466 
bh'adna-sa  do  thabairt  dumdi13,  uair  nocha  sirmid  ach[t]  sin." 

865  Et  o  ralabair  Tid  dana  derrscaigteach 14  amlaz'á  si?;  ar 
tairrseach  an  tigi  rig15,  tai??ig  roi?rce  co  dian  -j  co  debil16  arna/ 
tanig  an  tore  tren  adbal  allaidh  dochuir  Déan  d'incfrad  -j  do 
sugad17  cWch  na  Calidoi/ce,  ar  ba  (erg  le  can  idbairt  do  denam 
di  do  lucht  na  Cailidoine,  co  n-eirged  a  guairi    gairbliath 

870  gaisideach  stmal  fhidbaid  osa  ci?id  contaidli[g]dis  saig(n)ena 
sohtsta  asa  fiaclaib  croma18  crnaidgera  ima  leiccnib  langranrfa 
re  glonrfbeimnig  a  claideam  no  a  clomair  an  trath  contu- 
indsned19  ara  cheili  hé  contachlad  -j  contógluaiseadh20  cairrgi 
troma   tui/?idi   an    talma»,   -j    fualascada    fada   na  fidbaidi  a  472 

875  heochairimlib    srotha21    Achileus    antan    contuairgidis    seal- 
gaireada22  sirluatha  gas?xridi23  Greg  cor-fhagaib  an  tore   sin  473 
Talimon  taraheis  -j  co  ratrascair  an  coraid  cwrata  Ixion  co 
ramarb  an  miKd  morchalma  Me[l]iagér  ua  deoid24  hé. 

1  Eg.  uadh  7  eidh  tri  muir  mora  2  Eg.  denud  3  Eg.  na  cruiti  sin 

4  Eg.  ar  senmur  5  Eg.  dat  aincfed  co  rabhdais  6  E.  mugaigthi  '  Eg.  o  'r 
11-armaibh-ne  8  Eg. Caradoíi/ídaatfarraduodhein  9  E.hesraigi  ...Eg.  ia  croda 
10  Eg.  in  cinedh  n  Eg.  indsamluigend  12  Eg.  a  n-ulc  acht  ma  13  Eg.  duinne 
14  E.  derrscaidteach  15  Eg.  righi  sin  16  Eg.  dethbel  17  Eg.  do  fhasugud 
E.  do  subad  18  MS.  cromad         19  Eg.  tuinnsedb         20  Eg.  congluaisedh 

21  Eg.  tsrotha        22  Eg.  sealgaire       23  E.  gasraigi        24  E.  deoig   Eg.  deoidh 

54 


THE  THEBAID 

Then  accordingly  Tydeus  said  :  "  He  will  take,"  said  he,  "  the 
sovereignty  from  thee  ;  and  though  three  vast  walls  of  iron  were 
round  about  thee,  built  by  pre-eminent  Amphion  (and  he  is  the 
first  man  by  whom  the  wall  of  Thebes  was  built  at  the  outset, 
and  he  did  but  sound  his  sweet-strained  hollow  harp,  and  by 
the  music  of  his  harp  beams  and  stones  would  come,  and  go 
upon  the  wall),  and  though  it  be  arms  and  many  weapons  and 
fastnesses  of  the  earth,  they  will  not  protect  thee  from  being 
killed  and  destroyed  by  our  arms.  And  thy  kingly  diadem  will 
be  parted  from  thee  along  with  thy  head.  And  a  sorrow  to  me," 
said  he,  "is  the  vengeance' that  will  be  inflicted  on  the  valiant 
Calydonian  bands  that  thou  wilt  bring  with  thee  into  that  war 
in  thine  own  company.  Ah  ! "  said  Tydeus,  "  huge  would  be  the 
slaughters  and  the  dispersions  on  the  slopes  of  Mount  Cithaeron, 
and  there  will  be  from  that  encounter  a  profuse  flood  of  blood 
in  the  beautiful  river  of  Ismenos.  And  I  do  not  wonder,"  said 
he,  "  at  every  evil  ye  will  do,  for  cruel  and  sinful  was  every  race 
whence  ye  have  sprung,  and  there  is  not  of  all  the  Thebans  a 
man  that  does  not  resemble  his  father  in  evil,  except  Polynices. 
And,  O  Eteocles,"  said  he,  "  thine  own  evil  will  be  avenged  on 
thee  unless  thou  give  the  kingdom  for  this  year  to  us,  for  we 
seek  but  that." 

And  when  bold  distinguished  Tydeus  had  thus  spoken  on  the 
threshold  of  the  king's  house,  he  came  forward  keenly  and 
restlessly,  as  came  the  strong  huge  wild-boar  which  Diana  sent 
to  devastate  and  to  swallow  up  the  confines  of  Calydon.  For 
she  was  angry  that  no  sacrifice  was  offered  her  by  the  people  of 
Calydon.  And  his  rough  grey  hairy  bristles  rose  like  a  wood 
above  his  head.so  that  bright  lightnings  gleamed  from  his  curved 
hard  and  sharp  teeth  about  his  very  hideous  cheeks,  with  a  loud 
smiting  of  his  sword  or  his  tusks  when  he  would  crush  them 
together,  that  he  might  dig  up  and  root  out  heavy  earth-fast 
rocks  and  the  long  plantations  of  the  wood  from  the  border 
edges  of  the  river  Achelous,  when  the  ever-swift  hunters  of  the 
Greek  youths  were  beating  them  until  that  boar  left  Telamon 
behind  him,  and  overthrew  the  heroic  champion  Ixion,  until  the 
greatly  daring  soldier  Meleager  slew  him  at  last. 

55 


E.  rib  29  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  188*  13 

Ocus  is  fan  samla  sin  ta[i]nig  an  treinfer  calma  Cailidonda1  a    jj  * 

880  hoireacht  thnuthach  na  Teibi,  mar  bad  air  fein  dobertha  era  477 
'ma2  fhlaithus.    Et  ua  tindisnach  toirbert3  an  fhir  si»  isna 
sligfchibh  someamlaib  soimtheacAia,  -j  dodiubraic  uad  an  fleisc4 
n-olacAraind  robai  'na  laim  a  comartha  sida.    Et  robatar  mna 
na  Tiabanda  seal  ag  sithsilleadh  an  gilla  si//,  -j  dobadar  ag 

885  eada?*guidi  cacha  huilc  do  Thid  -j  dobadar  ag  imradad5  uilc48i 
ana  n-aigentaib  da  rig  bodein  .i.  Eitiocles. 

Is  andsi»,  immorro,  rabai  an    fer    meblach    micomairlech 
neimdeach6  naimdigi  .i.  Eitiocles,  ag  sgrudad  ana  menmai»  482 
indus7  doberadh  inndeall8  a  oideada9  'man  teac/ííairi  togaidi 

890 sin  .i.  'ma  Thid;  -]  is  e  ni  doroine-sium  an  fer  dichoindircleach10 
diuwisach  si?i  .i.  fer  da  chuingeadhaib  calma  catha  ~\  do  ogaib11 
talchara  tairisi  do  thoga  -j  do  thiwol  -j  a  chur  ar  cind  urtharrsna 
Thid  ar  sligid  nach  seithénadh12,  -j  a  marbad  doib.  Et  ba 
feramail  an  fer  cosar-ciwVeadh  an  coimlin  cwrad  sin  do  cho??i- 

895  lanw13 ;  -\  tangadar  an  ceithern  sin  ar  casanaib  conairi  na 
coillteag  ndriseach  ndeilgneach  ndiamardluith14,  -j  fuaradar 
inad  fiamach  farairi  a  nglind  dorcha  doimtheac/(ia  iter  da 
sliab  arda  aivnreidi15  (p.  12)  co  fidnemeadaib  fermara  fasaigh. 
Et   dobái    carrag   ard  aduathmar,    -j   is   inuti-sidhi  rabai  an 

9ootorathar  tedmanc?ach  dar-bo  co??iainm  Spinx.  Et  is  é  an 
torathar  nathaidledh16  -j  nothimchilleadh  na  moigi  fa  coimnesa 
di   o   roscaib   rogi^anda,   ruamanta.     Et  each   dui«e  adchidh, 

I  tigead  isin  sligid  sin,  roiarfaigeadh  siti  ceasta  doib17 ;  -\  gach 
duiwe  nach  tabradh  fregra  iurri,  rosiwead-si  a  dóidi  duaibseacha 

905  dubglasa,  -j  a  hingne  umochta,  aithgera,  -j  a  fiacla  garba  goini- 
deacha18  a  cend  each  duiwe,  co  sluigeadh  -j  co  sirchagnadh  dara19 
craes  salach  sleimredach20,  noco  tainig  an  ier  og  ainindech 
Eidip,  1  co  ramarbi/stair  an  torathar  sin.  Et  ni  lamdais  cethra 
caithmeagda21  dul  d'  ingeltradh  feoir  an  raaigi  sin  na  eoin  na 

910  eathaidi  cromad  dar  craebaib  na  caillead  sin  os  cind  in  adbaid22 

1  Eg.  CalidoHe  2  Eg.  man  3  Eg.  tairberta  in  4  Eg.  uadh  in  flesc 
6  E.  imragad  6  Eg.  neimnech  7  Eg.  aca  scrudadn  ina. .  .cíhcíus  8  E.  imdeall 
Eg.  innell     9  E.  oigega     10  Eg.  doroigne-sium  uidbir  ainni  do  cuingad/iaibh 

II  Eg.  d'occaibh  12  Eg.  sechenudb  13  Eg.  chomlond  14  Eg.  ndelgn«7fa 
ndiamair  ndluith  15  E.  aimreigi  16  MS.  natbaiglegh  17  Eg.  dibb 
18  Eg.  gótnedacba  19  Eg.  tara  20  Eg.  slaimredacb  21  Eg.  caitbmecha 
22  Eg.  na  badbba 

56 


THE  THEBAID 

And  in  this  wise  came  the  brave  Calydonian  champion  from 
the  jealous  assembly  of  Thebes,  as  if  it  were  to  himself  that  a 
refusal  had  been  given  about  his  sovereignty.  And  swift  was 
the  passage  of  that  man  in  the  excellent  easily  traversed  roads, 
and  he  cast  from  him  the  branch  of  an  olive-tree  that  was  in  his 
hand  as  a  sign  of  peace.  And  the  women  of  the  Thebans  were 
for  a  while  steadily  gazing  at  that  lad,  and  they  were  imprecating 
every  evil  upon  Tydeus,  and  they  were  planning  evil  in  their 
hearts  against  their  own  king  Eteocles. 

There  however  was  the  shameful  evil-counselling  virulent 
hostile  man,  Eteocles,  searching  in  his  mind  how  he  should 
devise  means  for  the  death  of  that  chosen  messenger,  Tydeus ; 
and  this  is  what  that  ruthless  proud  man  did,  to  wit,  that  some 
of  his  valiant  battle-champions,  and  of  his  stubborn  steadfast 
young  men  be  chosen,  assembled,  and  sent  to  meet  Tydeus 
obliquely  on  a  path  he  could  not  avoid,  and  that  he  should  be 
slain  by  them.  And  manly  was  the  man  to  whom  that  comple- 
ment of  heroes  was  sent  to  match  ;  and  that  band  came  by  the 
foot-paths  of  the  briery  thorny  secret  and  dense  forests,  and  they 
found  a  dreadful  place  for  a  watch  in  a  dark  impassable  glen 
between  two  high  uneven  hills  with  grassy  luxuriant  sacred 
groves.  And  there  was  a  high  awful  rock,  and  therein  dwelt  the 
pestilential  monster  named  Sphinx.  That  is  the  monster  that 
used  to  search  and  sweep  the  plains  nearest  to  her  with  her  very 
ugly  red  eyes.  And  every  man  she  sees,  and  who  might  come 
that  way,  she  would  ask  questions  of  him ;  and  as  for  every  man 
who  would  not  give  her  a  reply,  she  would  stretch  out  her  terrible 
dark-grey  hands,  and  her  bare  very  sharp  nails,  and  her  rough 
spearing  teeth  at  the  head  of  every  man,  so  that  she  might 
swallow  and  constantly  chew  them  over  her  foul  slobbering 
gullet,  until  the  young  irascible  man,  Oedipus,  came  and  slew 
that  monster.  And  wasteful  cattle  did  not  dare  to  graze  the 
grass  of  that  plain,  or  birds  or  winged  flocks  to  descend  over  the 
trees  of  that  wood  over  that  abode.  And  the  people  of  Eteocles 
57 


E.  12a  14  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  1 88b  17 

sin.    Et  tangadar  muinter  Eitioclm  co  tai  taithenach1  co  ruigi    n 
in  inad  sin,  7  rabada?-  ag  urnaidi  Tid  diumsaig  do  dalaigh.         524 
Cid  tra  acht  tangadar  neoill  dorcha  dubglasa  na  haidchi  tar  527 
dreith  thalman2  uili,  7  o  doriacht  Tidd  an  tan,  sin  a  comfogus 

915  na  caillead  a  rabada?-  na  fir,  adchondaircc  uada  don  tulaig3 
a  roibi  taitne??i  na  sciath  scellbolgda  -j  ruithean4  na  cathbarr 
n-orda  n-ileagair  tré  thana  na  cailleadh  ré  soillsi  in  esca.  Et 
dotoclit5  ar  Tid  aga  faigsi»,  7  tainig  roime  da  n-indsaigid  arapa, 
1    donochd    a   chlaidiw,   -j   dobertaig6  na  fagada  bega   bega 

920  bunger[a]7  rabai  'na  laim,  -j  dofhiarfaig8  co  hainmin  aimndeach  : 
"  Can  as  tangadar  na  firu,"  ar  se,  "  -j  cá  folach  doberthai  ? " 
Et  nir-labair  dui??e  dib  ris.     Acht  is  andsin  daerig  taisech  538 
bailcbeoda  bunata  na  buidne  sin  .i.  Croeimis  cwrata,  7  dogab 
a  fhaga  suainmeach  sodibraicthi  ina  laim  laidir  lancalma,  -j  tuc 

925  ?trchar  do  Tid  cojtf-ben  ism  croicend  an  tuirc  adbail  allaid  bái 
uime  da  leith  chli9,  cor-bean  crand  na  sleigi  a  n-ingnais  a 
hiaraind  eter  a  ucht  7  a  imlinn.  Et  ragabustar  aduath 
feochair  fergach  an  gilla  si??,  co  raergestair  a  fholt  csem 
curchanach  amar  scaith   sciath  sciach10;  7  dobai  co  hudmall 

93oanshadail  ainindeach  ag  inred  a  aichthi  7  a  édaig  ré  feoch- 
rvigud  na  feirgi  bai  fair.     Et  adraig  ar  an  raagh   minalaind 
a  coi??di  na  cur&d,  7  dogab  'ga  n-agallai??i  7  is  ed  doraid11 : 
"  Anaid  ré  hi/?ibualadh,  a  oga,  uair  nocha  n-uilim-si12  acht  mé  548 
am  senaran  ar  an  mbernaid13."   Et  ni  roibi  a  ft/reach  sin  acoson, 

935  7  tangadar  da  indsaigid.    Et  adchondairc  si?i  na  firu  si??,  indus  546 
ba  lia  i??a  mar  doshail. 

Tai/tig  roimi  suas  a  mullach  na  cairrgi  a  mbid  Spinxs14,  556 
1  dobai   ac  brisead  na  cairrgi  comdaiwgne  da  lamaib  croma 
cw?*ata,  noco   riacht   mullach  na  cairrgi.    Et  o  dariac/ii  suas 

940  co  na  roibi15  eagla  fair  uilc  do  denam  ris  a  leith  da  druim, 
rathachail  1  dotarrai??g  carraig  ndermair  ndofulac/Va,  a  roibi 
feidm  seisrigi  sonairti  do  tharrai/?g  a  tendtaib  talman,  7  rotho- 
gaib  uasa  gualaind  co  seitreach16  sirchalma  amail  an  tilco?»a 

1  Eg.  toithenacb...E.  urnaigi  2  Eg.  dreich  in  talman  3  E.  tulaid 

4  Eg.  scellbolcach  7  ruithin  5  Eg.  dothocht : aga  faigsin  7  tainig... arapa  om. 
6  Eg.  dobertaif/  E.  dobertair(d)  7  Eg.  buingera  8  E.  dofhiarfaid  9  Eg.  clé 
10  Eg.  &mal  scáith  sciach  n  Eg.  roraidh  12  Eg.  a  occa...nfuilimsi 

13  E.  mbernaig     14  Eg.  i  mbi  Spinx     1S  Eg.  co  na  roipi     16  Eg.  co  seitrech 

58 


THE  THEBAID 

came  silently,  without  a  word,  unto  that  place,  and  they  were 
waiting  for  proud  Tydeus  in  order  to  waylay  him. 

Now  black  dark-grey  clouds  of  the  night  came  over  the  face 
of  all  the  earth,  and  when  Tydeus  arrived  at  that  time  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  wood  in  which  the  men  lay,  gazing  from  the  hill 
on  which  he  stood,  he  saw,  through  a  thinness  of  the  wood,  the 
sheen  of  the  tortoise-formed  shields  and  the  shimmerof  the  golden 
much-adorned  helmets  against  the  light  of  the  moon.  And 
Tydeus  was  silent  as  he  gazed  at  them.  He  proceeded  towards 
them  nevertheless,  drew  his  sword,  brandished  the  small  sharp- 
pointed  javelins  that  were  in  his  hand,  and  asked  roughly  and 
angrily:  "Whence  have  the  men  come,"  said  he,  "and  why 
should  ye  take  to  hiding  ? "  And  not  a  man  of  them  spoke  to 
him.  But  then  rose  the  strong  and  lively  well-derived  leader  of 
that  band,  to  wit,  heroic  Cthonius ;  and  he  took  his  thonged 
well-casting  javelin  in  his  strong  full- valorous  hand,  and  he 
delivered  a  cast  at  Tydeus  so  that  it  struck  into  the  huge  wild- 
boar's  hide  that  was  about  him  on  his  left  side ;  so  that  the 
shaft  of  the  spear,  as  apart  from  the  iron  of  it,  struck  between 
his  breast  and  his  navel.  And  wild  angry  terror  seized  that 
youth,  so  that  his  beautiful  bushy  hair  rose  like  a  horror  of  a 
white-thorn's  wings;  and  he  continued  restlessly,  uncertainly, 
angrily  tearing  at  his  face  and  his  raiment  owing  to  the  raging 
of  the  wrath  that  was  upon  him.  And  he  went  up  on  the 
delicately  beautiful  plain  to  meet  the  champions,  and  he  began 
to  address  them,  and  this  is  what  he  said  :  "  Refrain  ye  from 
smiting,  O  youths,  since  I  am  but  myself  alone  in  the  breach." 
And  there  was  no  delay  on  their  part,  and  they  came  towards 
him,  and  he  then  saw  those  men,  how  that  they  were  more 
numerous  than  he  had  hoped. 

He  came  forward  up  to  the  top  of  the  rock  where  abides  the 
Sphinx,  and  he  was  breaking  the  solid  rock  with  his  clenched 
heroic  hands,  until  he  reached  the  top  of  the  rock.  And  when 
he  had  arrived  above,  so  that  he  had  no  fear  of  evil  being  done 
to  him  behind  his  back,  he  dug  out  and  dragged  a  very  large 
insupportable  rock,  which  would  have  required  the  effort  of  a 
powerful  team  of  sixtodrag  it  from  earth's  fastnesses, and  he  raised 
it  over  his  shoulder  strongly,  ever  bravely,  like  the  hard-hitting 

59 


E.  r2a  52  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i89a  21 

tendtachair  rodibraic1  Polus  mear  mormenmnach  aran  lsechraid    ^ 

945  Laipiteagda  ar  bansib2  (col.  /3)  Piratous.    i?í  ba  machtnugnd  564 
reisin  mbuidin3  teind  Tiabanda  sin  Titt  do  beith  isin  charraig 
osa  cind.    Et  tarlaig  Tidd  an  taw  sin  an  charraicc  ua  samalta 
ri  sliab,  cu  rasraiw  7  cm  rasrailleastair4  an  farmed  fuasnadach 
Bin,  naco  rathuitseadar  gnuisi  na  gasraidi5  sin  -j  a  n-arm6 

950  uvnochta  ar  lár  a  n-senfeacht  7  a  n-sewuair,  7  ralenaid  a  lama 
na  laeich  sin.  rlot?-ascraid  -j  rothuindsnit  ochta  na  n-ánrad  sin 
co  bristi7  buaidirthi  concn?*thi  a  nuaid  marse?i  a  roteilcthi8 
rochuir  an  cnraid  sin  ar  an  cloich  chruaidh9.  Cid  tra  acid 
torchair  ceth?-ar  ciirata  conilaind  a  n-zenfeacht  uan  cloich  sin, 

955  co  fuaradar  bás  leis ;  -j  dotheithseadar10  an  dirim  croda  errata 
sin,  focetoir,  uair  fa  derrscaigtheach  de[g]ci?;eoil  an  cethrar 
fuaradar  bás  and.     Dabai  ara  reim  si??  fer  rigda  romenmnach  571 
solttsta  saignenta  dib  sin  .i.  Dorebiis11,  7  dathuit  andsin  an  fer 
suaithnig  sochi/?elach  do  sil  Mairt  mic  Ioip  -j  ba  talchair  ré 

960  tachar  an  trenfer  sin  .i.  Teron ;  -j  atorchair  andsin  an  marcach  572 
morme?imnach  urbadhach  imneadach  .i.  Has  7  ba  troigtheach  574 
é  an  tan  sin ;  -j  adorchair  and  dono  an  ier  miscneach  mordalach 
do  sil  pnmd[a]  Penteus12  .i.  Pedimns.    Adchondairc  immorro 
Tid  tuitim  na  treinfer  si»,  7  na  sluaig  bristi  buaidirthi  ar- 

965  chena  do  teitheadh  ;  7  rachaswstair18  na  da  f haga  fhirgera  bai 
na  laim,  7  dodibraig14  iad  co  direach  degdaingen.  Et  asa 
haithli  rolingastair  leim  don  chruadcharraig  a  roibi  ar  an  mag 
mor  a  mach  a  ndeagaid  thejthid  na  Tiabanda,  7  ragabsam 
cruaidsciath  cuancla  cathbuadach  in  fhir  thalcair  Tiabanda  .i. 

970  Terón,  7  ragabastair  an  craiceand  aduathmar15  alltaighi  bai 
aigi  fein  uma  chend.    Asa  haithli  sin  doronsad  na  Tiabanda 
dirim  clluith  catha  comdaingin 16  dib  a  n-agaid17  Thid  arisi.  Tid, 
immorro,  rathairring  seig  co   talcair  ti?;desnach  a  claideam  587 
mbaile  mbeoda  mBistoneagda  asa  truajll  ta'bguirm  aisgedaig 

975urbaga  a  athcrr  ainmnig  .i.  Mni&sa,  do  Thid  re  trentachar  a 
cuil  a  chasmduirind.    Ratimairg  7  dotimchill  each  ré  ieacht  na 

1  Eg.  rodiubraic  2  Eg.  bainnsibh  3  E.  mbuigin  4  Eg.  gu  rosroilestair 
s  E.gasraigi  6  Eg.  airm  7  Eg.  co  brisdis  8  Eg.  buaidhirti  on  raen  rotelctbi 
9  Eg.  cloich  sin  comcliruaidh  10  Eg.  doteichsitar  n  Eg.  "OOfebUf 

12  Eg.  shil  primdha  Peneteus  13  Eg.   rocusatar  E.  rachasastair 

14  Eg.  dodiubiaic     15  Eg.  adhfuathmar     16  Eg.  comdaingen     17  E.  a  n-adaig 

60 


THE  THEBAID 

goblet  which  reckless  high-spirited  Pholus  threw  at  the  Lapi- 
thean  hero-folk  at  Pirithous'  nuptials.  And  that  strong  Theban 
band  wondered  that  Tydeus  should  be  on  the  rock  above  their 
heads.  And  then  Tydeus  threw  the  rock  that  resembled  a 
mountain,  so  that  that  tumultuous  crash  overwhelmed  and 
scourged  them,  until  the  faces  of  that  youthful  soldiery  and 
their  unsheathed  weapons  fell  to  the  ground  at  the  same  time 
and  moment,  and  the  hands  of  those  heroes  clave  to  them.  The 
breasts  of  those  champions  were  overwhelmed  and  crushed 
brokenly  confusedly  overpoweringly  with  his  feats  of  strength  as 
well  as  of  his  great  hurling  powers  which  that  hero  had  exerted 
upon  the  hard  stone.  Now  four  heroic  fighting  men  fell  at  one 
time  by  that  stone,  and  died  thereby ;  and  that  valorous  heroic 
band  at  once  fled,  for  the  four  that  died  there  were  distinguished 
and  of  good  family.  There  was  of  them  of  that  host  a  royal 
high-spirited  bright  fulminating  man,  to  wit,  Dorylas ;  and  the 
illustrious  well-born  man  of  the  seed  of  Mars,  son  of  Jove,  fell 
there,  and  stubborn  in  battle  was  that  champion,  to  wit,  Theron; 
and  the  great-spirited  baleful  woeful  horseman,  to  wit,  Halys, 
and  he  was  a  foot-soldier  at  that  time ;  and  there  also  fell  the 
hateful  haughty  man  of  the  primary  race  of  Pentheus,  to  wit, 
Phaedimus.  Tydeus,  however,  saw  the  fall  of  those  champions, 
and  that  all  the  hosts,  broken  and  in  disorder,  fled ;  and  he 
brandished  the  two  very  sharp  javelins  that  were  in  his  hand, 
and  hurled  them  straight  and  right  strongly,  and  afterwards 
made  a  leap  from  the  hard  rock  on  which  he  stood,  out  upon 
the  great  plain,  following  the  flight  of  the  Thebans ;  and  he  took 
the  fine  battle-victorious  hard  shield  of  the  stubborn  Theban 
man,  to  wit.  Theron ;  and  he  took  the  dreadful  wild-beast  skin 
which  belonged  to  himself  about  his  head.  Thereafter  the 
Thebans  again  made  themselves  into  a  dense  band  of  strong 
battle  against  Tydeus.  Tydeus,  however,  drew  stoutly  hastily 
from  its  blue-sided  sheath  his  strong  lively  Bistonian  sword,  the 
warlike  gift  to  him  from  his  famous  sire,  to  wit,  Oeneus  for 
valiant  fight  in  the  hollow  of  his  fine  hand.  At  one  time  he 
drove  together  and  surrounded  those  men.  At  another  he 
61 


E.  12b  32  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  189b  18 

firu  sin.    Roscail  -7  roscathc/stair  an  ieacht  araill,  -j  uá  farrach    n 
anfulang  do/?a  feraib  sin  taidleach  na  n-ar??t  limtha  lasamain 
ré  cheili.    Et  ba  toir??zeasc  tachair  do?ia  t?'ei«feraib  a  n-imad 

980  ag  indsaigid1  a?nfhir2,  contuairgidis  -j  contuirisidis  curpo3  a 
cheili  ag  rochtam  an  rig4  sin  ;  7  fa  cu?nang5  croda  comnaidi 
Thid  iter  armaib  urnocAia  na  laechraidi  lanmarbtha  uime 
anoir  -j  aníar.  Robo  neimneach  nemthoglaidi  7  fá  fosaid  an 
firlaech  sin  ag  s?'ainead  na  sochaidi  uada6  amach  co  cian  1  ua 

985  dermair  difoillsiugud  an  fhir  sin  ag  imirt  a  sceith,  co  ?nbiad7 
ar  miri  7  ar  me?-beallaig  'ma  cuairt,  co  na  faghad  fer  creacniach 
crithnaigthech  ris  ba  teindinus  teithead8  cai  na  conair9  can 
Tid  croda  Cailidonda  do  thegmail  do  ara  chind  urtharrma,10. 
Conteilged-siwm  7,  contogluaisid  uad  na  faga  fada  firgera,  na- 

99obidis  'na  saitheadaib  saiti  sodibraicthi  a  sgiath  7  a  cnis  an 
cnrad  sin  ;  -j  ua  lor  do  gresacht  a  gaiscid-simn  .i.  Tid  na 
fiarlet[h]arthi  fuil[id]in  confertais  na  fir  sin  fair.  Et  is  ancZsin 
rabada?*  cethrar  cnrad  comramach  ag  cirrad  chuirp  an  rig  sin, 
7  ba  hiad  so  a  n-anmanda :  Deiloens  beogda  bruthnaigthech ;  608 

995  7  ier  vaer  do  muintir  Tiabanda,  Plegeus12  tnuthach  tomaith- 
raeach13,  co  tuaig  lethain  ledarthaig,  tuir  chatha14  chomlaincZ; 
Gian15  gloinrfmer  gaisgeácic/i  TiabancZa  tairgsenach  feramail 
fo?4aind ;  Lochapanteis16  ledarthach  lanj^kjeffc/iiach.  Ticead  a 
dodranig17.    (p.  13)  Cid  tra  acht  roroth  7  ra[s]rain18  [Tit  Eg.]  na 

ioootreinfiru  si)i19  contoitidis  re  tentaib  talman  uad.    Is  andsin 
rabadar  i(n)a20  Tiabanrfa  aga  n-airim  fein  7   fa  galar  leo   a  612 
d[t]eirci  re  tachar  an  tan  sin.    Is  andsin  rofot?'aicsidar  Croimews 
Caithmegda  dar-bo  mathair  Driopi  Phoiniseagda  an  ?nbrath-  613 
luirg21  ndruimnig  ndaigremair  amt/i  ralaig  roremair,  -j  adubairt : 

1005  "  A  firu,"  ar  se,  "  an  racha  ant  senduine  imlan  uaind  ar  cur  ar 
n-air  co  h  Argus  ?  Et  a  tes  curntha,"  ar  se,  "ni  ferrdi  duindi  620 
i«iad  ar  lam  -j  ar  n-arm22  7  a  dul-san  beó  -|  ni  head  sin  rag(ells)- 
amair-ni  a  Chidon  7  a  Lampus  don  righ  .i.  do  Eitiocles."  Et 
1  MS.  indsaigid  -  Eg.  ainfer  3  Eg.  tuinnsidis  curpa  4  Eg.  in  rig 
6  Eg.  cumang  6  Eg.  uadh  7  Eg.  co  mbid  8  Eg.  teichrarf 

9  Eg.  conaire  10  Eg.  urtarsna  sa  u  Eg.  iuilidhi  12  Eg.  do  Tiabandaib  in 
Plegeus     13  Eg.  toimaitech     14  Eg.  curata     1S  Eg.  Dian     16  Eg.  Lochapantes 

17  E.  CICeAT)  A"00"OflA11-15— «  thickness  which  has  came  to  it  (the  ink). 
Eg.  ticí'íí  ó  "OOfVAniC,  words  added  to  fill  blank  space  in  E.  are  incorporated  in 
the  text  in  Eg.  but  not  being  understood  are  marked  with  a  cross  on  margin. 

18  Eg.  rosráin  Tit  19  Eg.  na(tren)feru  co  tren  20  E.  i(n)a  Eg.  na 
21  Eg.  a  mbruthluirc         22  MS.  niarm 

62 


THE  THEBAID 

scattered  and  cut  them  off;  and  an  intolerable  oppression  to 
those  men  was  the  gleam  of  the  polished  weapons  flashing  to- 
gether. And  a  hindrance  to  the  champions'  fighting  was  the 
multitude  of  them  attacking  one  man,  so  that  they  smote  and 
bruised  each  other's  bodies  in  making  for  that  king ;  and  narrow 
and  bloody  was  Tydeus'  position  amidst  the  naked  weapons  of 
the  full-deadly  hero-folk  surrounding  him  in  front  and  rear. 
Virulent,  undaunted,  and  steadfast  was  that  true  hero  as  he 
drove  the  multitude  far  out  from  him ;  and  exceeding  great  was 
the  unexpected  resource  of  that  man  as  he  plied  his  shield,  so 
that  he  could  smite  in  fury  and  at  random  around  him,  so 
that  a  wounded  trembling  man  who  was  in  haste  to  flee  would 
find  no  path  or  way  but  brave  Tydeus  of  Calydon  met  him 
directly  in  front.  He  kept  throwing  and  shedding  off  from  him 
the  long,  very  sharp  darts,  that  were  remaining  as  fixed  well- 
shot  arrows  in  the  shield  and  in  the  skin  of  that  hero  ;  and 
enough  to  stir  his  valour,  to  wit,  Tydeus',  were  the  jagged 
bleeding  wounds  which  these  men  kept  showering  upon  him. 
And  there  were  four  triumphant  heroes  hacking  the  body  of 
that  king,  and  these  are  their  names :  animated  fiery  Deilochus; 
and  a  reckless  man  of  the  Theban  people,  envious  menacing 
Phegeus,  with  a  broad  hacking  axe,  a  tower  of  battle  and  combat ; 
and  Gyas,  an  heroic  Theban  of  furious  deeds,  promising,  manly, 
oppressive  ;  Lycophantes,  mangling,  full-valorous.  Let  him  come, 
since  he  has  come  (?).  <ULocJ~dL 

However,  Tydeus  put  to  flight  and  turned  those  stalwarts  so 
that  they  fell  to  earth's  fastnesses  by  him.  It  is  there  the  Thebans 
were  counting  themselves,  and  their  fewness  for  fight  was  a 
grief  to  them  at  that  time.  Then  Cadmean  Chromis,  whose 
mother  was  Phenician  Dryope,  shook  the  lethal  club,  ridged  and 
goodly  thick  as  a  very  thick  oak,  and  he  said  :  "  Men,"  quoth  he, 
"  will  one  man,  after  slaughtering  us,  go  from  us  scatheless  to 
Argus  ?  And  comrades,"  quoth  he,  "we  are  none  the  better  for 
the  multitude  of  our  hands  and  arms,  since  he  goes  away  alive; 
and  it  is  not  that  which  we,  O  Cydon  and  Lampus,  promised  to 
Eteocles  the  king."  And  whilst  he  was  saying  that,  puissant 
63 


E.  is*  io  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  190*  13 

an  tan   rabai-sium  aga  rada1   sin,   tarlaig  Tid   trenglonrfach    ^  ' 

ioiourchar  do  sleig  seimnig  sar[fh]eac/i?Jaig  do,  co  tarla  'na  bél 
■j  'na  braigid  cor-tregd2  a  inc/i  -j  a  orclaigi  i??a  cliab  -j  gid  mad 
béo  robad  balb3  co  brath  i  ndegaid  si??.  Et  asa  haithli  si?? 
dogabc/stair  Pe?*ipas  macTeispis4a  brathair  ledarthi5leathmarb 
leis  ite?-  a  da  laim  -|   dobai  ag  toirsi  -]  ag  truagnemela  co 

ioi5mor  asa  los.  Et  is  andsin  dodibraig  T?d6  .i.  faga  tromger 
tulfhsebrach7  a  leith  da  druim  do  c??r-dreb?-isasta?>8  a  asnada 
cuara  cttrata  cor-gab  urraindi  tré  brathair9  robai  ite?'  a  da 
láim  -]  dof  hoslaig  an  brathewV  a  suili  ag  buair?  an  gai  ind  -j  dobai 
ag  fegan10  brathar  osa  chi??d  -j  adubairt  Pe?ipas  :  "  Co  tucthar11  641 

1020  aigid  mar  so12  ar  do  mac  fei??,  a  Tit"  Et  rothuitsead13  an  dana 
brathair  si??,  amlaid  sir?  ré  Tid,  -j  dodun  each  dib  suili  a  ceili.  643 

Et  is  e  terna  a  sin  Menetws  a  senruc,  -\  rotheith-siura14  noco 
rathuit,  -j  rug  Tit  air,  -j  rothogaib  Menetits  a  dá  laim,  -j  dobai 
ag  iarraid  anacail  ar  Thid  :  "  Ar  na  dee15  da  n-adraid  riut,  leig16 

1025  uait  misi  d'  indsaigi  na  Teibi  cu  ramdisur  do  scela  innti,  amaZ  650 
domarbais-[s]i  sinne,"  ar  se,  "-]  do  beith-siu17  béo."  Nir-bo18 
t?-ocair,  im???orro,  Tid  do  Menettts,  -j  :  "  Doberim  mo  breithir 
ris,"  ar  Tid,  "  na  geb-sa  do  de?*a  ina  do  debrogoid.    Uair  is  tú 
clogeall  mo  chend-sa  do  breith  leat  do  Eitiocles  *j  cuir  uait19  t'  657 

1030  arm,"  ar  se,  "1  gab  mait//i?n  n-anacail,  uair  bu  gairid20  bia  ad 
bethaid  risna  cathaib  iartai??." 

Is  andsin  tuc  Tid  athais  n-imagallma  -j  irachainti  arna 
Tiiibsnda,  -j  tai??ig  athscis  mór  andsin  do  Tid,  co  nar-fhéd 
a  sciath  d'  im&rchur  na  a  chlaidi??i  do  chongbail,  co  misnigdis21 

1035  srotha  fola  fiadhnaighi  na  miled  romarbasta?V22  asa  trt'llsib 
troma  taitnemacha,  amai  leoman  mer  Maisileagda  ar  gur23  air  675 
almad  -j  indili  co  nbi  scitheach24  ar  caithim  an  comaid  sin. 

Cid  tra  acht  is  ed  fa  tend  ag  Tid  dul  d'  iwdsaig  na  Tebi  682 
-j  faidb  fhuilidi  forderga  na  fer  sir?  do  breith  leis  do  Eitiocles 

1  E.  raga  2  Eg.  gur-tceog  3  Eg.  ge  mad  beó  robo  marbli  dó  a  beth  balbh 
4  Eg.  Tepis  5  Eg.  ledartha  6  MS.  .t.  '  Eg.  tulfsebracha 

8  Eg.  gur-dethbrisitar  s  Eg.  braitfttr  10  Eg.  fegain  in  u  Eg.  tucair 
12  E.  mor  so  Eg.  mar  so  13  E.  roshiuitsead  Eg.  rotititset  14  Eg.  a  sin 
.i.  m.  in  rig  (no  aenfer)  7  roteiebsium  15  Eg.  deib  16  E.  leit  Eg.  riut  om. 
17  E.do-beith-siu  Eg.  dobeth-sium  18  MS.  nir-bo  Eg.  Niro  19  MS.  curuair(t) 
Eg.  t'  airrn  20  Eg.  badh  gairit  21  Eg.  con  suighdis  22  E.  J\OITlAf\t)AfC- 
23  Eg.  Masilega  ar  cur        u  Eg.  co  mbidh  scith 

64 


THE  THEBAID 

Tydeus  let  fly  a  cast  of  his  riveted  outrage-working  spear  at  him, 
so  that  it  struck  his  mouth  and  his  neck  so  that  it  pierced  his 
inwards  and  his  diaphragm  (?)  in  his  chest ;  and  though  he  was 
alive,  he  was  dumb  ever  after  that.  And  thereafter  Periphas, 
son  of  Thespis,  took  with  him  his  mangled  half-dead  brother 
between  his  two  hands,  and  he  continued  much  sorrowing  and 
sadly  lamenting  on  his  account.  And  it  was  then  that  Tydeus 
cast,  to  wit,  a  heavy  sharp  keen-faced  javelin  at  him  by  way  of 
his  back,  so  that  it  broke  through  his  curved  heroic  ribs,  and 
thrust  a  spear-point  through  his  brother  that  lay  within  his 
arms.  And  the  brother  opened  his  eyes  at  the  plucking  out  of 
the  spear-head,  and  he  continued  looking  at  his  brother  bending 
over  him,  and  Periphas  said :  "  May  a  fate  like  this  befall  thine 
own  son,  O  Tydeus."  And  thus  fell  the  two  brothers  before 
Tydeus,  and  each  of  them  closed  the  other's  eyes. 

He  that  escaped  from  that  was  Menoetes  alone,  and  he  fled 
until  he  fell,  and  Tydeus  got  hold  of  him,  and  Menoetes  lifted 
up  his  hands,  and  continued  asking  protection  of  Tydeus,  "  By 
the  gods  whom  ye  worship,  let  me  depart  for  Thebes  that  I  may 
announce  tidings  of  thee  therein,  how  thou  hast  slain  us,"  said 
he,  "  and  that  thou  art  alive."  Tydeus,  however,  was  not  merciful 
to  Menoetes :  "  I  give  my  word  besides,"  said  Tydeus,  "  that  I 
will  not  have  thy  tears  or  thy  entreaty.  For  thou  didst  promise 
to  bring  with  thee  my  head  to  Eteocles ;  and  lay  aside  thine 
arms,"  said  he,  "  and  accept  a  favour  of  protection,  because  it 
were  a  brief  space  thou  wilt  be  in  life  for  the  coming  wars." 

Then  Tydeus  directed  insult  in  conversation  and  jibe  against 
the  Thebans ;  and  then  came  great  languor  on  Tydeus,  so  that 
he  was  unable  to  bear  his  shield  or  to  hold  his  sword,  so  that 
streams  of  the  blood  in  evidence  of  the  soldiers  he  had  slain 
dripped  from  his  heavy  shining  locks,  like  a  mad  Mauretanian 
lion  after  slaughtering  flocks  and  herds,  till  it  was  weary  of 
consuming  so  much  as  that. 

Howbeit  this  was  the  intention  Tydeus  had,  to  go  to  Thebes, 
and  to  bring  with  him  the  bloody  crimson  spoils  of  those  men 
to  Eteocles  and  all  the  Thebans,  until  the  goddess  Minerva  said 
c.  65  5 


E.  i3a  40  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  190b  6 

1040-]  dona  Tiabandaib  ar  chena  noco  ndebairt  an  bandea1  Menerba   ™ 
ris :  "  A  nn'c  [ri[g]  na  Calidone,"  ar  si,   "  ca   misgais  no   ca 
migradh  fuil  &gut  fort  fen  int&n  tegi  dod  tin?ilacadh  do  Tiao- 
andaib  ?   Et  na  mill  in  coscar  rochuiris  -j  na  mórgnima  doronais, 
1    doghebaí    Grécaigh    uili    cathugud    o    Tmbandaib."     Ocus  690 

1045  rotimitodh  Mercerbha  aicnedh  Tit  andsiw. 


Ill 

Imthusa  Beniri  banchumachtaigi  roinwsaigh  seig  a  lewnaw   nej  * 

.i.  Mairt,  mac  Ioib,  -|  roeigh  air,  ace  i&rraidh  furtachta,  do 

Tiabandaib.     Ocus  dofwrail  ar  Tit  dul  co  Teibh  do  fagbail 

a  oidhedha,  -j  roraidh  ris :  "  Da  madh  e  inta,n  tucais  in  gradh 

1050  nderinair  dam-sa,  -j  mé  ac  Ulcan,  -7  rochuadhws  ad  c/domdail-si 

1  rochomracais  rim2  Eg.  190b  8-17]  ri  Beinir."    Et  o  raco//iraic 

Mairt  ré  Ueinir  andsi/i,  rochruaid-cheangail  an  slabrad  sm  iad 

a  n-urd  a  n-adaltrais,  -\  o'dcho/ufaircc  Ulcan  iad,  rothinoil  na 

huili  dee  -j  bandee  co  fhacadar  co  fiadnach  a[da]ltras  na  deisi 

1055  sin.    "  Et  da  mad  he  an  lá  fuarus-[s]a  ant  i?>idergad-sa3  as  do 

los-[s]j,  a  Mairt,  dobertha-sa  maitMín  damsa  do/ia  Tiabanoiai'6 ; 

*I  is  mo  doberad  Ulcan  damsa  each  ní  dój3hui»gebai«d4  fair 

anai-siu5,  a  Mairt,  gé  doro?ías  a  ai??iles.    Et  créd  mar-leigis6 

dam,"  ar  si7,   "in  ingen   [rucus  duitsi  dar   cend   Ulcain    .i. 

io6oErimone  Eg.]  da  thabairt  don  fir  Thirdha  Tiabanda  .i.  do  271 

Chaithea??i  mac  Aigenoir,  -j  ole  do  denam  ré  lucht  na  Tebi  'na 

degaid8  ?     [Et  is  nair  duitsi,"  ar  si,  "corob  treisi  Ulcan  re 

milliud  na  Tiabanda  ina  duitsi  ca  n-anacul.    Uair  is  é  Ulcan 

tre  ét  umaitsiu  tuc  forru  each  col  da  ndernatis  .i.  in  muintorc 

1065  tuc    doibh "    Eg.]     Nochar-fuilngastcm*   trd*   an    ier   cuancia 

cathbuadach  Bin  .1.  Mairt,  mac  Ioif,  briathra  Ueimri  do  dul 

co  dimam.    "R&chuir  a  arma  uadh10,  -j  ratoirling  asa  charpwa7, 

1  ragab  chuigi  (in)  ingin  a  crislacha  a  sceith,  -\  dogab  co  hmmaiw 

ailgen  aga  hagallaim,  -\  adbert : 

1  Eg.  co  ndebert  Uenerua  in  bandei   E.  oighedha  2  Eg.  rim  7  rotinoil 

Ulcan  na  n-uili  dei  7  bandei  co  facatar  ar  nd-altranas  arndis,  doghenta  each  ni 
bud  mhaith  lium  ar  si  da  madh  e  in  la  rocengail  slabrad  i  n-adhaltras  etruinn  7 
fuarusa  an  imdercad  n-adbul  asa  do  losa  3  E.  tidgadsa  4  E.  chuindebaind 
5  Eg.  annasu  6  Eg.  far-lecis  7  E.  se  8  E.  dedaig  9  Eg.  Nachar-fuilgiu- 
stair  trath         10  Eg.  uadha 

66 


THE  THEBAID 

to  him  :  "  Son  of  the  king  of  Calyclon,"  said  she,  "  what  hatred 
or  what  malice  hast  thou  for  thyself  when  thou  goest  to  give 
thyself  up  to  Thebans  ?  And  do  not  spoil  the  victory  thou  hast 
gained  and  the  great  deeds  thou  hast  done,  seeing  that  all  the 
Greeks  will  have  fighting  from  the  Thebans."  And  Minerva 
then  changed  Tydeus'  mood. 


BOOK  III 

With  respect  to  Venus,  mighty  goddess,  she  approached  her 
lover,  Mars,  son  of  Jove,  and  she  entreated  him,  seeking  succour  for 
Thebans,  and  she  urged  upon  him  that  Tydeus  should  go  to  Thebes 
to  meet  his  doom,  and  she  said  to  him :  "  If  it  were  when  thou 
didst  love  me  very  deeply,  though  I  was  Vulcan's,  and  I  went  to 
tryst  with  thee,  and  thou  didst  embrace  me — Venus."  And  when 
Mars  embraced  Venus  there,  that  chain  bound  them  securely  in  • 
the  act  of  adultery  ;  and  when  Vulcan  saw  them,  he  assembled 
all  the  gods  and  goddesses  so  that  they  saw  plainly  the  adultery 
of  those  twain.  "And  if  it  were  the  day  I  got  this  shaming  on 
thy  account,  O  Mars,  thou  wouldsb  have  granted  me  forgiveness 
for  the  Thebans ;  and  Vulcan  would  grant  me  anything  I  might 
ask  him  much  more  than  thou,  O  Mars,  though  I  have  done 
him  wrong.  And  why  didst  thou  allow  me,"  said  she,  "  to  give 
the  girl  I  bore  to  thee  in  Vulcan's  despite,  to  wit,  Harmonia,  to 
the  Tyrian  Theban,  to  wit,  to  Cadmus  son  of  Agenor,  and  that 
evil  should  be  done  to  the  people  of  Thebes  in  consequence  ? 
And  it  is  a  shame  for  thee,"  said  she,  "  that  Vulcan  is  stronger 
to  destroy  the  Thebans  than  thou  to  save  them,  for  it  is  Vulcan, 
through  jealousy  of  thee,  that  brought  upon  them  every  sin 
they  committed,  to  wit,  by  the  necklace  which  he  gave  them." 
Now  that  fine  battle-victorious  hero,  Mars,  son  of  Jove,  could 
not  endure  that  Venus'  words  should  pass  in  vain.  He  doffed 
his  armour,  leaped  from  his  chariot,  gathered  the  maiden  to  him 
in  the  hollow  of  his  shield,  and  began  affectionately  and  passion- 
ately to  address  her,  and  he  said  : 

67  5-2 


E.  13a  54  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i9ob  34 

1070      "Is  tu  duine  as  docha  Hum  dona  dainib  1  dona  deib.    Is  j^  " 
taisgi1  (col.  /3)  rabaithfind-si  me  fein  isna  srothaib2  adfuaraib  295 
ifernda  na  dorachad  do  grad-sa  -j  t'  inmaine  uaivn-si  -]  grad 
lochia  na  Teibi.    Et  chena,"  ar  se3,  "  ni  [f h]edaim  gan  teacht- 
aireacht  don  athcwV  d'  Ioib4,"  ar  se,  "  uair  atá  a  chumachta  a 

1075  nim  -j  a  talmain,  ar  muir  7  ar  tir,  -j  ni  fetar  teacht  a  n-agaid5 
chainti  an  chumachta,igh  sin.  Uair  docinrfastar  Ioib  -j  na  dee  ar 
chena  o  thosach  an  domain  an  cath-sa  do  chur.  Acht  chena," 
ar  se,  "  an^tan  beidid  na  cineada  ceacAiarda  a[c]  caihtigud  ar 
faith[ch]i6  na  Teibi  .i.  na  Greig7  7  na  Tiabanda,  7  dober-sa 

io8ofortac/ti  -j  foirithin8  ar  na  cineadaib  tairisi  Tiabandu,  7  doden- 
sa,"  ar  se,  "  do  contairli-si  each  indus  dofédab.  Uair  legaid9 
na  dee  dunn  t'urt&cht  ar  carad10,  acht  na  rab  toidec/íí11  a  n-agaid 
a  toili."  Et  [o]12  adubairt-sinm  sin,rogreseastair13  a  eocha  disciri 
difbillsigtheacha.  Ba  deinigtir  saignen  luath  lasamain  ré  tinchur 

1085  a  diubraicthi  a  n-aimsir  adfuair  anbhthenaigh14,  amtti  tainig 
Mairt  mac  Ioip  roime  risin  teacht&irecht  sin. 
Imt?isa  Mairt  conuigi  sin. 

Imtusa,  immorro,  Tit  mic  ^Eniasa,  rochiná  seig  a  cheim  co 
heganttais15  adhuathraar  tarsna  bruig[ib]16  cairgeacha  gartglana  325 

iocpGregda,  co  facaid  uad  mullach  na  cathrach  suaithinti  suthaigi 
.i.  Prochin/?a17.  Ua  salcha  sesmacha  trilhi  an  treinfhir  an  tan 
sin  ré  lansalchar18  an  luaithridh  a  haithli  an  lanchomaig19,  7  ba 
salcha  fliucha  na  fiarletairthi  badar  a  cnis  an  curadh20  si?i  tré 
alius  a  aistir  -j  imtheac/iia,  7  ba  ruisti21  ruamanta  ruisc  an  rig 

1095  sin  can  codlad  can  chumsa?iadh,  7  ba  mórmenmnach  an  milid 
sin  a  haithli  an  choscair  dochuir.  Uair  is  &m\aid  dobai22  Tit 
mac  Mniasa  andsin  amaZ  tarb  co?nthnuthach  coscarach  ar 
trcethad  -j  ar  toirnem  chuingida  choimfedma,  coma  lochairthi 
lanmarb  dá  eis  arna  fudbognd.    Et  o  rasiacht  immorro  Tit  na 

noocathi-acha  sin  na  Gm'gi,  nir-an  ag  adandadh  feirgi  7  urbaga23 
1  miscaisi  na  Tiabanda  arna  ci/?eadaib  cosnamacha  .i.  ota  Sefon  337 

1  Eg.  tusca  do-      2  Eg.  a  srotkatb      3  E.  se  se       4  E.  d  Eoíb      6  E.  adaid 
6  E.  faithe  7  Eg.  Grecaig  8  Eg.  furidhthin         9  Eg.  a  fetab...legfed 

10  Eg.  ar  carait      u  E.  toigecht      12  E.  7      13  Eg.  O  dubairtson  sin  rogrmis 
14  Eg.  tenithir...ainmbeííathai'í7  15  Eg.  rocbinset  a  ceim  co  hegen?H<« 

16  Eg.  bruigibh  17  Eg.  Prosinna  18  Eg.  salchair  19  E.  co^Mg 

20  Eg.fiarleturtba...curaidb     21  Eg.  rehallus...ruiti     22Eg.noui    23E.urbada 
68 


THE  THEBAID 

"  Thou  art  the  person  dearest  to  me  of  mortals  or  of  gods. 
Sooner  would  I  drown  myself  in  the  chill  streams  of  Hell  than 
lose  thy  love  and  thy  affection,  and  the  love  of  the  people  of 
Thebes.  And  yet,"  said  he,  "I  cannot  but  go  on  a  message  to 
the  father,  Jove,"  said  he,  "  for  his  power  holds  in  heaven  and 
earth,  on  sea  and  land,  and  I  may  not  go  against  the  utterance 
of  that  mighty  one.  For  Jove  and  all  the  gods  have  decreed 
from  the  beginning  of  the  world  that  this  war  should  be  waged. 
But  yet,"  said  he,  "when  the  two  nations  will  be  fighting  on  the 
plain  of  Thebes,  to  wit,  the  Greeks  and  the  Thebans,  I  will  give 
succour  and  support  to  the  trusty  Theban  tribes,  and  I  shall 
follow  thy  counsel  every  way  I  shall  be  able.  For  the  gods  allow 
us  to  succour  our  friends,  provided  there  be  no  going  against 
their  will."  And  when  he  had  said  that,  he  urged  his  fleet  fiery 
steeds.  As  quick  as  swift  flaming  lightning  at  the  discharge  of 
its  shooting  in  chill  stormy  weather,  thus  came  Mars  son  of  Jove 
forward  with  that  message. 

Concerning  Mars  thus  far. 

As  to  Tydeus  son  of  Oeneus,  however,  he  set  his  pace  fiercely 
awfully  over  the  rocky  fair-fielded  farms  of  Greece,  till  he  saw 
in  the  distance  the  top  of  the  famous  prosperous  city  of  Pros- 
hymna.  Foul  and  upstanding  were  the  champion's  locks  at  that 
time  after  being  utterly  matted  with  the  very  filth  of  the  dust, 
and  foul  and  wet  were  the  jagged  wounds  in  the  skin  of  that  hero 
through  the  sweat  of  his  journey  and  wanderings,  and  rent  and 
reddened  were  the  eyes  of  that  king  for  the  want  of  sleep  and 
rest,  and  high-spirited  was  that  soldier  after  the  victory  he  had 
won.  For  it  is  thus  Tydeus,  son  of  Oeneus,  was  at  that  time — 
like  a  fierce  victorious  bull  after  subduing  and  bringing  down  a 
well-matched  antagonist,  so  that  he  was  mangled  and  utterly 
dead  in  consequence  after  despoiling  him.  And,  moreover,  when 
Tydeus  had  reached  these  cities  of  Greece,  he  ceased  not  to 
inflame  the  wrath,  boastfulness,  and  hatred  of  the  Thebans 
against  the  contending  nations,  to  wit,  from  Asopus  to  Argos ; 
69 


E.  i3b  29  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i9ia  32 

co  hArgi/s,  -j  dobai  'ga  inrfisi1   a  chuir  feiw   re  teachtmrecht   ^  * 
dochum  Eitioclew  d'  iarraid  afhlaithis2  do  Phoiliiuces -j  raindis 
an  feall  dotriallad  air  feirc  tré  cheilg  in  aidchi  si??,  ag  Eitiocles 

1 1051  era  do  thabairt  do  union  flaithus  do  Poilinixes3.  Et  dob 
urusa  do  Thid  aslach  uilc  do  thabairt  iter  na  poiplib4  ún 
Adraist.  Uair  dobai  an  dea  croda  cathc/Vitmac/iiach  .i.  Mairt 
ag  urail  ana  ceina  orro5. 

Is  ancZsin  immorro  dobai  an  ri  uasal  Adraisd,  -\  maithi  a  345 

mo  mirinntire  'na  farrad  a  coiwdi  -j  a  coraairli,  a?itan  taimg  Tit 
can  fis  can  aireachad  chucu  no  cor-labair  forc6  dorus  ag  teacht 
astech :  "  A  firu,"  ar  se,  "  gabaid  bar  n-arma  co  hoband ;  -j,  a  348 
Adraist,"  ar  se,  "  cm'mnig,"  ar  se,  "  do  sochi?ieilchi7  -j  mormewma 
na  fer  mor  or-geinis,  -|  gab  t'  errad  catha  -j  co/nlai?id  -j  comraig8 

ni5umat;  uair  nocha  n-uil9  comall  caradraid  ag  na  Tiabandaib 
risna  deib  na  risna  dainib,"  ar  se,  "  -j  dobad  usa  liumsa  dul  re 
teacht&ireacht  d'  inc?saigh[id]  each  cineada10  egendais  ainindaig 
aili  'si?i  doman  na  da  n-i??dsaigid-sium.  Et  a  G?'egu,"  ar  se, 
"  berid  mise  dochum  catha  na  Tiabanda,  co  ndiglar  orra  an 

1 1-20  t-indlead11  ceilgi  tucsad  oram  ism  n-aidchi.  Et  ergid  co  hoband," 
ar  se,  "  doc/urn?,  bar  na??zad  antan  ataid12  co  heaglach  anband 
remaib,  -j  antan  ataid  trúaig13  nenielach  ag  nual[l]guba  a 
muinntire,  -j  ag  adnacal  chorp  a  carad  alia  muich  da  cathraig, 
-j  domarbus-[s]a  fei?i  .i.  tremfer  dona  Tiabandaib.    Et  gid  am 

1 125  creac/iiach  crolindteach-sa,  is  ed  is  ail  lium  a  n-i?idsaigid  a 
cetoir  doridisi." 

Is  andsi?;  doeirgeadar  na  Gm'g14  a  n-se/ifecAi  a  n-agaid  Tit  365 
do  iertham  fhailti  fris,  -\  is  e  cetfer  doriacht  da  indsaigid  an 
trenfer  calma  Caithmeagda  Polinixes,  mac  Eidiph,  rochrom  a  367 

ii3ochend,  -j  adubairt :  "Adchim-si  do  chrectcht[a],  a  Thid  (p.  14) 
croda,  a  charagai» ;  -j  ni  tu  do  creac/íínaiged  andsin,"  ar  se, 
"acht  mad  misi  feiw;  -j  do  rulcaib15  rimsa  doronad  ritsu  sin.  372 
Et  bid-si  an  bar  tocht16,"  ar  se,  "  a  Gregu,  -j  leigid  damsa  debaid 
ma  brathar ;  -\  is  ed  dligim-si,  a  Thid,"  ar  se,  "  do  cveachta-su  380 

1  Eg.  6tá...ac  indisin     2  Eg.  flaithiusa  3  Eg.  do  thabairt  uman  flaithiusa 

ar  P.           4  Eg.  uilc  iter  na  pui-placha  5  Eg.  in  dei...furail  in  cetna  forro 

6  E.  fhon         7  E.  sochineilechi,  epunet.  del.  8  Eg.  comraic        9  Eg.  no 

cha  nfhuil         10  E.  cin»ead   Eg.  cinidh  n  Eg.  int  binsdl         12  Eg.  atait 

13  Eg.  truagh   E.  truaid     14  Eg.  Greca  15  Eg.  dar  ulcaib     1G  Eg.  7  bidhisi 
a»  uar  tocht 

70 


THE  THEBAID 

and  he  continued  to  say  that  he  himself  had  been  sent  on  a 
mission  to  Eteocles,  to  ask  his  kingdom  for  Polynices,  and  he 
related  the  treachery  that  had  been  attempted  on  himself 
through  Eteocles'  deceit  that  night,  and  that  a  refusal  had  been 
given  him  about  the  kingdom  for  Polynices.  And  it  was  easy 
for  Tydeus  to  sow  a  temptation  to  evil  among  those  peoples  of 
Adrastus.  For  the  cruel  battle-potent  god,  Mars,  was  urging 
the  same  things  upon  them. 

Then,  however,  the  noble  king  Adrastus  and  the  nobles  of 
his  people  by  him  were  in  assembly  and  counsel,  when  Tydeus, 
unannounced  and  unobserved,  approached  them,  and  said  at  the 
door  as  he  entered:  "Men,"  said  he,  "seize  your  arms  immediately; 
and,  Adrastus,"  said  he,  "  remember,"  said  he,  "  thy  high  descent 
and  the  great  spirit  of  the  great  men  whence  thou  hast  sprung, 
and  don  thy  garb  of  battle,  conflict,  and  contest ;  for  with  the 
Thebans  there  is  no  fulfilment  of  friendship  to  gods  or  men;" 
said  he,  "  and  it  would  be  easier  for  me  to  go  with  an  embassage 
to  any  other  fierce  and  angry  race  in  the  world  than  to  them. 
And,  0  Greeks,"  said  he,  "  take  me  to  the  war  of  the  Thebans, 
that  I  may  avenge  upon  them  the  treacherous  device  they  put 
upon  me  in  the  night.  And  rise  quickly,"  said  he,  "upon  your 
enemies  whilst  they  are  fearful  and  weak  before  you,  and  whilst 
they  are  miserable  and  sorrowful  lamenting  their  people,  and 
burying  outside  their  city  the  bodies  of  their  friends  whom  I 
myself  have  killed,  to  wit,  the  champions  of  the  Thebans.  And 
though  I  am  wounded  and  blood-stained,  what  I  desire  is  to 
attack  them  at  once  again." 

Then  the  Greeks  arose  together  to  meet  Tydeus  and  to  give 
him  welcome,  and  the  first  man  that  reached  him  was  the  brave 
Cadmean  champion,  Polynices,  son  of  Oedipus,  who  bowed  his 
head,  and  said  :  "I  see  thy  wounds,  brave  Tydeus,  dear  friend ; 
and  it  is  not  thou  that  hast  been  wounded  there,"  said  he,  "  but 
as  it  were  I  myself;  and  that  has  been  done  to  thee  as  monstrous 
wrongs  to  me.  And  be  ye  silent,"  said  he,  "  ye  Greeks,  and  let 
me  fight  my  brother ;  and  this  I  claim,  O  Tydeus,"  said  he,  "  to 
avenge  thy  wounds  upon  the  Thebans." 


E.  Ma  4  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i9ib  27 

1 135  do  digail  ar  na  Tiabanda."   Et  o1  dorigni-siwm  an  cornairli  sin  in  ' 
co  coitchend  re  each,  roerig  truaignemela2  toirrsi  7  tindnsa3  a 
endeadaib  na  nGreg  uili,  co  na  roibi  d'  óg  na  do  shin  andsin  384 
an4  ae?iduine  nar-chind  senmenmain  a  ait  7  atharda  d'  [fh]agbail, 
7  dul  d'  indsaigid  na  Teibe  da  togail  re  Polimces,  mac  Eidip. 

w^o Etb  dolabair  an  cowairleach  ciawsesta  .i.  athewr  an  oireachais  388 
.i.  Admist,  1  adubairt :  "  Leigid  damsa  7  dona  deib  bar  caingni6 
do   c/iWchnachadh,  -j   denaid   teindeanns   urn   thachtw   risna 
Tiabawdai'6.    Uair  nocha7  racha  an  flaithins8  a  n-aiscidh  o 
Phoili?n'ces  can  a  digail,  7  bid  nua  sin  saltan  dogentar.    Acht 

ii45chena,"  ar  se,  "dentar  Tit,  mac   JEniasa9,   do   leiges   7    do 
lesubugnd10,  1  legar  codlad  -j  cmnsanad  do  chorp  creacAfach 
an  enrad11  co?n[b]a  slan."     O  'dcon??cadar  ceitherrn12  cuanna  394 
coimideocAia  Thid13  -j  a  baincheili  baillgeal  banamail,  a  cnes 
ar  creac/iinubad,  robuaidrid  -j  romedraid14  a  menmanda.    Et 

1 1 50  roiadsadar   uili   uirae    'ma   cuairt   co   dluith  -j   co  daingean, 
7  t(air)astair  Tid  co  fosaid  forbailid  isin  rigda15,  -j  a  druim 
risin  colamain  comdáingin  bai  for  lar  an  tigi,  ^  doglanustáir 
an  fiseacda16  fireolach  .i.  Idmon  Epidwrda,  a  cveachta,  an  enrad17  398 
sifi  d'  uisqui  langlan  linnfhuar,  7   dothesc  do  scin  aithgher 

1 1 55  fgebarguirm  iumad  an  feola  atmairi  as18.  Rachuir  luibi 
cumacMacha  cnesaigthi  a  ledarthaib  an  lseich  sin.  Et  dobai19 
immorro  Tid,  mac  JEniasa20,  ag  fhaisneis  -j  ag  indisin  a  gloir 

7  a  cho?nraith21  fei?i  -j  Eitiocles,  ri  na  Teibi ;  -j  roindis  arTtfinad 
a  tugadh  in^tpleag  ceilgi22  uime,  7  in  uair  tugadh  an  cath, 

1160-]  anmand23  na  toiseach  dorochair  leis,  -j  an  fer-indisin-scel 
doleig  da  deoin  uada  .i.  Meón24  fileata  fadamcn726.    Et  ralai  socht  404 
1  snim  an  rig  n-uasal  nAdraist  7  airig  an  tiri  7  an  talman 
badar  ag  eisteacAi  risna  scelaib  sin ;  7  rob  adannad26  menman27 
don  lucht  sin  scela  na  Tiabanda,  7  fá  togbail  fergi  7  f  huasaidi  406 

1 165  Toilinices  moir  mic  Eidip  sin. 

1  E.  70,  o  sup.  lin.        2  E.  truaid   Eg.  roerig  tra  truagh        3  Eg.  teinniusa 
4  Eg.  co  nach  roipi...andsin  en     5  Et  written      6  E.  chaingni      7  Eg.  nacha 

8  Eg.  flaithiusa  9  Eg.  .Enisa  10  E.  lesbugnd  Eg.  lesugud  u  Eg.  in 
euraidh  12  Eg.  cethernach  13  Eg.  Tit  14  Eg.  arna  creachtn[ug]udh 
robuaidrit  7  romhedhruit  1S  Eg.  righdé  16  Eg.  in  fisige  17  Eg.  in  euraidh 
18  Eg.  na  feola  ass  19  Eg.  co  ro  bui  20  Eg.  JSnisa  21  Eg.  a  chomratc... 
risna  Ti&bandaib  22  Eg.  int  iimleadh  ceilgi  23  Eg.  anmanna  24  Eg.  Msen 
25  Eg.  fathamail  Roloidb.         26  E.  agannadh         "  Eg.  rop  annudh  menman 

72 


THE  THEBAID 

And  when  he  had  given  that  counsel  generally  to  all,  a  woeful 
pang  of  sorrow  and  sickness  arose  in  the  hearts  of  all  the  Greeks, 
so  that  there  was  not  there  of  young  or  old  one  person  but  made 
the  same  resolution,  to  leave  his  place  and  fatherland,  and  go  to 
Thebes  in  order  to  sack  it  with  Polynices,  son  of  Oedipus.  And 
the  aged  counseller,  the  father  of  the  assembly,  to  wit,  Adrastus, 
spoke  and  said:  "Allow  me  and  the  gods  to  end  your  disputes, 
and  do  ye  make  haste  about  fighting  with  the  Thebans.  For  the 
kingdom  will  not  go  as  a  present  from  Polynices  without  his 
vengeance,  and  that  will  be  unprecedented  when  it  is  inflicted. 
But  in  any  event,"  said  he,  "  letTydeus  son  of  Oeneus  be  medi- 
cined  and  healed,  and  let  sleep  and  rest  be  allowed  to  the 
wounded  body  of  the  hero  that  he  may  be  well."  When  the 
fine  troop  of  foot  accompanying  Tydeus,  and  his  white-limbed 
womanly  spouse,  saw  his  skin  covered  with  wounds  their  minds 
were  troubled  and  excited.  They  all  closed  round  about  him 
densely  and  compactly,  and  Tydeus  stood  firmly  and  joyously 
in  the  palace,  with  his  back  to  a  solid  pillar  that  was  in  the 
middle  of  the  house,  and  the  very  skilful  physician,  to  wit, 
Idmon  of  Epidaurus,  cleansed  the  wounds  of  that  hero  with  full- 
pure  well-cold  water,  and  with  a  very  sharp  blue-edged  knife  he 
cut  off  much  of  the  proud  flesh.  He  put  powerful  healing  herbs 
into  the  gashes  of  that  hero.  And  moreover  Tydeus  son  of 
Oeneus  was  relating  and  telling  of  his  own  speech  and  encounter 
with  Eteocles,  king  of  Thebes ;  and  he  told  of  the  place  from 
which  the  treacherous  spear  was  hurled  at  him,  the  time  the 
battle  was  fought,  the  names  of  the  chiefs  that  fell  by  him,  and 
the  tale-teller  whom  he  intentionally  let  away,  to  wit,  poetic 
and  prophetic  Maeon.  And  silence  and  anxiety  fell  upon  the 
noble  king,  Adrastus,  and  the  princes  of  the  land  and  of  the 
earth,  who  were  listening  to  these  tales ;  and  the  tales  of  the 
Thebans  were  a  stirring  of  mind  to  that  folk,  and  that  was  a 
rousing  of  the  anger  and  wrath  of  great  Polynices,  son  of 
Oedipus. 

73 


E.  i4a  35  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  192*  22 

Et  asa  haili  sin  rothoiriná  -j  rathai?;   an  gn'an  dathglan^,6^' 
difhoillsigtheach   ar   uaitni1    ca3ma   corcnrglana  dar  eochar- 
bordaib  in  aigeoin2  aird  IWda  siar  co   fuinead3,  co   raiad 
1  co  rainfhogair  agaid  dorcha  doimtheacnía  c?*islach  comlu- 

1 1 70  aimneach  choguasta  na  firmairainti  um  tulcaib  -|  trebaib  an 
talman4  uile,  co  roibi  each  uili  ina  colladh  7  ma  co??isonad5,  417 
acht  mad  an  ri  cendais  cia?isesta  Adraist  -7  a  cliamain  primda 
~Po\inices  ag  sgrudad  gaisi6  can  chodladh  in  aidchi  sin.    Et  bai 
immorro  Tid  leadarthi7  ina  lanchodlad. 

1 175      Et  asa  haithli  sin  tainig  Mairt  mac  Eoiph  cop-ar?nfogruga'd8 
adbal  in  aidchi  sin  dar  enchaib  arda  na  hArcaidi,  -j  dar  bruigib  420 
niamglana  Neim,  -j  dar  mullach  sleibi  tirnzglain  Tenair  -j  co 
cathraig  uasail9  Apaill  do  Tiramnas  co  ralin  grada  chatha 
cosnama  crideada  crithnaigtheacha  citrada  na  Greige  uile  tré  423 

nSoaslach  an  dei  Mairt  mic  Eoip.    Et  dono  roscail  Fama,  ingen 
Terra,  co  cluach10  irdairc  scela  an  dea  sin  Mairt  fo  cAWcha 

I  chendacha11  na  Gm'gi  uili. 

Et  a  cind  seacht  laithi  iar  sin  roerig  an  senoir  snimach  uasal,  440 
Adraist,  -j  rabai  co  himsniwach  'ca  i??iradh  an  cath  roco?norfad 
1 185  no  an  sid  rosirfead12  ar  each.   Et  is  í  comairli  rochina'-smra  a 
faidhi  -j  a  fisidi  do  [thabairt  da  Eg.]  indsaigi13  -j  a  iarraid  daib 
seig14  tre  idbartaib  ar  na15  deib  cid  bud16  (col.  /3)  choir  dona 
Gregaib  do  denam.    Et  is  íad17  fá  fileada  an  tan  sin  aigi-smm 
.i.  Aimpiarans,  mac  Eitiocleis  no  Eiclis,  an  sagart  tuaithcill18 
1 190  tuigsenach  na  todochaidi;  -j  an  senoir  fireolach  finnitneach  451 
Melampus,  mac  Amithón.    Et  ni  roibi  a  coimré  fris  neach  as 
mó  ara  tabradh  Apaill  firinrfe  iregra  main  fer  fer  si?i19Melampns. 
Et  doronsad  na  faidi  sin  taiscelta  faistine  ar  tus  tré  fuil  -j  tre 
indib  na  ceat/tra  co?nloiscthi20;  -j  ona  fuaradar  fis,  ba  failid  led 
1 195  uaithib  si». 

Is  ana'sin  rotn'allsatar  taisceladh  ar  nellaib  nuaglana  in  geoir.  460 

Is  amlaid  rabadar-som,  -j  sliab  ard  aireda  chuana'a  coirareidh 

1  Eg.  aruithni...corcardha  tar  eochair  bordaib  2  Eg.  inn  aegen 

3  Eg.  co  foinedha       4  Eg.  na  talman       5  Eg.  cumsanudh       6  Eg.  an  gaiisi 

7  Eg.  letartha     8  Eg.  armfogrugud   E.fod-     9  E.  thuasasail     10  E.  cluaach 

c 

II  Eg.  chennadacha  E.  chendada  12  Eg.  ic  imradh  in  catha.  Doerigh  andsin 
do  eomoradh  in  catha  no  in  sid  do  shirfedh  13  E.  indsaidi  14  Eg.  fisedha 
do  thabairt  da... 7  a  fhiarrf-  dib  seg  15  Eg.  dona  16  E.  repeats  cid  bud 
17  E.  iadh           18  Eg.  tuaichill           19  Eg.  ina  fer  sin  20  E.  cowloiscthi 

74 


THE  THEBAID 

And  then  the  bright-coloured  glorious  sun  descended  and 
sank  on  lovely  bright-purple  pillars  over  the  borders  of  the  high 
Iberian  ocean  Westward  unto  setting,  so  that  dark  impenetrable 
night  surrounded  and  enclosed  the  swiftly  moving  hollow  vault 
of  the  firmament  round  the  hills  and  habitations  of  the  whole 
earth  so  that  everyone  lay  asleep  and  at  rest  save  the  gentle 
aged  king,  Adrastus,  and  his  chief  son-in-law,  Polynices,  searching 
for  wisdom  sleeplessly  that  night.  And  moreover  Tydeus,  with 
all  his  wounds,  was  fast  asleep. 

And  thereafter  came  Mars,  son  of  Jove,  with  loud  sounding 
of  armour  that  night  over  the  high  boundaries  of  Arcadia  and 
over  the  bright-coloured  farms  of  Nemea  and  over  the  top  of 
the  dry  and  bright  hill  of  Taenaros  and  unto  Apollo's  noble  city, 
Therapnae,  so  that  desires  of  contentious  war  filled  the  palpita- 
ting heroic  hearts  of  all  Greece  through  the  solicitation  of  the 
god  Mars,  son  of  Jove.  And  besides  Fame,  daughter  of  Earth, 
famously  conspicuously  scattered  tales  of  that  god,  Mars,  through 
the  boundaries  and  headships  of  all  Greece. 

And  at  the  end  of  seven  days  after  that  the  anxious  noble 
senior,  Adrastus,  rose  up,  and  was  veiy  anxiously  deliberating 
whether  he  should  extol  war,  or  seek  peace  for  all.  And  this  is 
the  counsel  he  decided  on,  that  his  prophets  and  wizards  should 
be  brought  to  him,  and  that  they  should  ask  of  the  gods  through 
sacrifices  what  the  Greeks  ought  to  do.  And  these  were  his 
poets  at  that  time,  to  wit,  Amphiaraus  son  of  Oecleus,  the  astute 
priest,  cognisant  of  the  future ;  and  the  very  skilful  prudent 
senior,  Melampus,  son  of  Amythaeon.  And  there  did  not  exist 
at  the  same  time  as  he,  one  to  whom  Apollo  would  rather  grant 
a  true  response  than  that  great  man,  Melampus.  And  those 
prophets  made  divinations  of  prophecy  at  the  outset  through 
the  blood  and  the  entrails  of  cattle  consumed  by  fire ;  and  since 
they  received  no  vision,  they  were  glad  by  reason  of  those 
things. 

Then  they  attempted  divination  by  strong  pure  clouds  of  the 
air.  It  is  thus  they  were,  with  a  high  pre-eminent  fine  smooth 
75 


E.  i4b  ii  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i92b  u 

coiseargtha1  a  comfogiis  doib  .i.  Aphesannt.    Et  is  do  mullach 
an  sleibi2  sin  rofoluairanig  Peirs3  mac  Ioip  do  cathugud  risin 


i2ooGorgain.  Et  is  amlaid  robai  an  Gorgain.  sin  .i.  torathar  tre- 
chendach,  -\  each  duine  adchid  he,  donith4  carraig  c/tomdai?igean 
de.  Et  o  chualaid  Pers,  mac  Eoiph,  sin,  tainig  d'  indsaigid 
Meneirbi5,  -]  dosir  furtacht  furri  dochum  na  Gorgaine.  Tug 
Menearb[a]  a  sciathgloinidhi  udein  do  co  fai[c]ead-som6  scath 

1205  an  torathan*  ag  tachur  ris  trésan  sciath  sin  [-j  co  faced  in 
torathar  a  scath  fen  conar  air  fen  docuaid  ann  Eg.] ;  -j  atorchair7 
an  Gorgan  leis-[s]i?*/n8  amlaid  sin.  Is  andsirc  tangadar  na  faidi 
1  na  fisidi  sagart9  sin  .i.  Ampiaraws,  -j  Melampns  ^?sin  sliab10 
n-alaind  n-olacAranda  sin,  -j  a  snaitheadha  ailli  idbarta  'má  467 

1210  cendaib  re  tnrggabail  na  greine  suaithinte11  solusta  isin  maidm 
moch-t/trath.    Is  andún  dolabair  Ampiarans  ar  tus  risna  deib 
.i.  re  hEoib  do  sundrad,  -]  rarim  a  cumachta,  egsamail12  in  ga,ch 
i?iad  fair  d'  iarratd  a  firindi  -j  a  innisin  duind  "  tre  gothaib  496 
na  n-én,  a  Ioib,  an  mberam  coscnr  dona   Tiab&ndaib   don 

1215  turus-[s]a."    Et  o  :dubairt  Ampúwaws  sin,  ralaigastair13  isin  497 
carraig14  cAomdaingin  a  roibi,  -j  dobai  ag  fegad  fhaistine  ina 
aignead  andsin,  -\  o  rafegastar-s*mi  renda-  -\  reltanda  na  firm- 
aiminti  -j  atha  in  aeoir,  ralabair15  Melampws  an  filid  asa  haithli 
sin  1 :  "  Adchi-si,  a  Ampiaraim,"  ar  se,  "  conach  foillsi[g]end  én 

1220  na  eathaidi16  sosad  na  saime  don  ulad  sin  no  so.    Uair  adchi- 
si  edaigi  duba  duaibsecha  in  aieoir17  ag  troid  -j  ag  tachar  da 
n-íningnib  croma  gcruaidgera  ré  ceili  -\  comartha  duba  -j  broin  510 
sin,"ar  se.  Adubairt  Ampiarans  ar  sin :  "  Darigni[us]-sa  co  minic, 
a  Melawpm's,  faistine  ajifuair  dob  óg  me  an  tan  dochuadus  a 

1225  nArgo  marse?*  ré  hlason  -j  ré  hErcail  -|  re  rigraid  Greg  archena 
co  cWch  na  Colcheta18.     Et  ni  rochreid  Iason  da*  fisid  na  da 
fireolach  .i.  do  M  opsins,  amal  dochreid  damsa.   Et  nocha  nfuanis  521 
riam,"  ar  se,  "  derbairdeada  moruile  mar  so  a  faistine  da  ndernus, 
-j  tabair-si  t'  airi,  a  Melampnts,"  ar  se,  "  risna  dirmaib19  diairmidi 

1  Eg.  cuserca  2  Eg.  in  tslebhi  3  Eg.  Pers         4  E.  donith  repeated 

6  Eg.  Uenerua  6  Eg.  uadein  do  co  faiceif-som  7  Eg.  torcair  8  E.  leis[s]ium 
repeated  9  Eg.  fisidhshagairt  10  Eg.  isin  tsliabh  u  Eg.  suaicbinta 
12  Eg.  hecsamla         13  Eg.  robudhastair        u  E.  repeated       15  E.  7  in  aeoir 

7  ralabair  16  Eg.  ateidh-si...doH  dulaiM-sa  uair  atcidh-si  etbaidi  E.  no  so 
is  a  correction  of  sin  17  E.  aideoir  Eg.  in  ffioir  18  Eg.  coilcennta. 
19  Eg.  th'  aire...damrodaib 

76 


THE  THEBAID 

consecrated  mountain  near  them,  to  wit,  Aphesas.    And  it  was 
to  the  top  of  that  mountain  that  Perseus,  son  of  Jove,  flew  to 
fight  with  the  Gorgon.    And  that  Gorgon  was  thus,  to  wit,  a 
three-headed  monster,  and  every  person  that  it  saw,  it  used  to 
turn  to  solid  rock.    And  when  Perseus,  son  of  Jove,  heard  of 
that,  he  went  to  Minerva,  and  asked  help  from  her  against  the 
Gorgon.    Minerva  gave  him  her  own  glassy  shield,  that  through 
that  shield  he  might  see  the  shadow  of  the  monster  attacking 
him,  and  that  the  monster  might  see  its  own  shadow,  so  that  it 
might  not  advance  upon  him  there ;  and  the  Gorgon  fell  by  him 
in  that  manner.    Then  came  those  prophets  and  wizard-priests, 
to  wit,  Amphiaraus  and  Melampus,  out^of  that  beautiful  olive- 
clad   mountain,  with   their  beautiful  fillets  for  sacrifice  about 
their  heads,  before  the  rise  of  the  conspicuous  blazing  sun  in  the 
early  morn.    Then  Amphiaraus  spoke  at  the  outset  to  the  gods, 
to  wit,  to  Jove  in  especial,  and  he  recounted  his  various  powers 
resting  upon  him  in  every  place  in  order  to  seek  truth  from  him, 
and  that  he  should  tell  us  "  through  the  voices  of  the  birds,  0 
Jove,  whether  we  shall  gain  a  victory  from  the  Thebans  on  this 
expedition."   And  when  Amphiaraus  had  said  that,  he  laid  him- 
self down  on  the  solid  rock  on  which  he  stood ;  and  he  continued 
beholding  his  prophecy  in  his  mind  there.    And  when  he  had 
beheld  the  stars  and  the  constellations  of  the  firmament  and  the 
fords  of  the  air,  Melampus  the  poet  spoke  after  that :    "  Thou 
seest,  Amphiaraus."  said  he,  "  that  no  bird  or  flock  of  birds 
shows   stability   or   tranquility    to  this    expedition.    For   thou 
seest  dark  gloomy  birds  of  the  air  quarrelling  and  fighting 
together  with  their  bent  hard  sharp  talons,  and  that  is  a  sign  of 
gloom  and  sorrow."    Thereupon  Amphiaraus  said :  "  I  have  often 
made  prognostication  when  I  was  young,  what  time  I  went  in 
the  Argo  along  with  Jason,  Hercules,  and  all  the  kingfolk  of 
Greece,  to  the  territory  of  Colchis.    And  Jason  did  not  believe 
his  wizard  nor  his  very  skilful  one,  to  wit,  Mopsus,  as  he  believed 
me.    And  I  have  never  found,"  said  he,  "  dire  portents  like  these 
in  prognostication  that  I  have  made.   And  do  thou  give  thine 
attention,  Melampus,"  said  he,  "  to  the  innumerable  flocks  of 

77 


E.  i4b  42  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  193*  15 

1230  d'  elaib  ailli  aercgela  adchim  atuaid  on  sruth  adf  huar  oigreta  -i.^f5* 

0  Stn'mon  seachum  aneas1  o  sruth  niamglan  Nil.    Et  tuic  526 
let,"  ar  se,  "na  Tiabanrfa  tsetencha2  i  sidh  in3  cat/trachaib 
comdaingnib  trésna  helaib  nemlitaimneacha,"  ar  se4,   "  -j   ag 
siud  buidean  as  chalma  inaid5  fei?i  da  n-indsaigia7  .i.  secht 

1235  n-aquili  aduathmara,  7  is  iad  sin,"  ar  se,  "secht  rig  na6  nGreg 
ag  indreadh  7  ag  argai?i  na  Tiabanoa.  Et  ag  siud,"  ar  se, 
"aquil7  dib  ag  dul  a  n-airdi  co  raloisceadh  7  co  raloitteadh  hi; 

1  is  é  sin,"  ar  se,  "  an  ri  diumsach  drochaigentach  .i.  Capenens 
an  sechtm&d  ri  do  rigaib  Greg8.    Loiscfid  saignen  teinc/tigi  he 

1240 ar  an  cathuchad9  mór  na  Teibi.  Et  dofhédar,"  ar  se,  "in  aquil 
so10  rothuit  ar  scis  eieagaili11,  is  é  an  mac  bseth  buaidealta12 
Partanapeus,  7  ant  en-sa13  do?io  rothuit  ar  braigid  a  cheli 
Polinices  mor,  mac  Eidip  sin;  7  a  brathaiV  Eitiocles,  ri  na 
Tiabanda.   Et  ann  acil  (p.  15)  raimig  imsh\ánu  .i.  Adraist  uasal 

1245  a  senur.  Et  ant  én  so  adchi15  do  bathadh,"  ar  se,  ".i.  Ipimedón, 
-j  ant  en-sa  adchi16  a[c]  cognam  chind  aroili  .i.  Tid  mac  Mniusa 
sin  -j  Mcnailispi/s17." 

Is  andsin  domebaid   a   chai18  ar  Ampiara«,<?,  -j   rafiarfacht 
Melampiis:    "  Cid    ma   cidii,    a   c/utmthaig19,    a    trasta  ? "   ar  546 

i25oMelampns.  "  Truag  am  sin,  a  uasail  airmidnig,  a  Melarnpias," 
ar  Ampiaraus.  "  Doberim-si,"  ar  se,  "aithne20  ar  an  én  úd 
rothuit  can  ait  7  can  inad  d'  fagbail,  conid21  mé  fein  tuitfes 
tresis  talmatn  sis  ar  cathachao722  mor  na  Teibi."  Cid  tra  acht 
ragabastaiV  critheagla  mor  na  faidi  7  na  fisid  sin,  7  rob  fai teach23  566 

1255  leo  fegad  na  fisi  sin,  7  dochuir  an  sagart  Ampiaraiis  a  edach 
uasal  idbarta  de,  7  táinic  isin  sliab  co  dubach  domenmnach, 
connach  cuiread  asa  airi  cathuchttd  [na  Tebhi  Eg.]  mar  bad 
in  uair  sin  [nobedh  Eg.].  Et  ni  deachaid  a  teach  an  rig  Adrais[t], 
na  do  comrad  re  huaislib  na  hoirechta,  acht  dofhalcastair  hé  a 

i26onduama24  aineolai^  anaithnid  can  fis  do  duine.    Melampws25 

1  Eg.  andes  2  Eg.  co  tae  tsenca  3  Eg.  a  sidh  ana  4  Eg.  ar  sé 

5  Eg.  ina  iad  6  Eg.  rigbdha  na  7  Eg.  aclí  8  Eg.  in  vii  ri  do  Grecaib 
9  Eg.  saighneana...ar  cathugud  l0  Eg.  aquil-si  ll  Eg.  ar  sciss  a  heteduile 
12  Eg.  buaigealta  13  Eg.  and  sen-sa  14  Eg.  Et  in  aquil  roimidh  imlan- 

16  Eg.  7  int  en  so  dociisi  16  Eg.  so  atci       .        17  Eg.  .Enisa  7  Menai- 

lippus  18  Eg.  aidbcbi  I9  Eg.  cid  ima  cintf'a  chumachtaigh   E.  cit)1t 

20  Eg.  aichne  21  Eg.  conadb  22  Eg.  cathugud  23  Eg.  7  rop  aithech 
24  Eg.  in  xmmaigh  25  E.  ft1et4inp3 

7« 


THE  THEBAID 

beautiful  pure-white  swans  which  I  see  coming  from  the  North 
from  the  chill  icy  stream,  to  wit,  Strymon,  as  well  as  from  the 
South,  from  the  pure  bright  river  Nile.  And  do  thou  understand 
by  the  un winging  swans  the  silent  taciturn  Thebans  at  peace  in 
strong  cities,"  said  he.  "And  behold  !  a  brood  bolder  than  them- 
selves approaching  them,  to  wit,  seven  awful  eagles,  and  these," 
said  he,  "are  the  seven  kings  of  the  Greeks,  plundering  and 
slaying  the  Thebans.  And  behold  !"  said  he,  "one  of  the  eagles 
going  aloft  until  it  has  been  burnt  and  destroyed;  and  that," 
said  he,  "  is  the  proud  evil-hearted  king,  to  wit,  Capaneus  one 
of  the  seven  kings  of  the  Greeks.  Fiery  lightning  will  burn  him 
at  the  great  war  of  Thebes.  And  I  know,"  said  he,  "  that  this 
eagle  which  has  fallen  for  weariness  of  wing-power  is  the  foolish 
perturbed  boy,  Parthenopaeus,  and  also  that  this  bird  which  has 
fallen  on  the  neck  of  his  fellow  is  great  Polynices,  son  of  Oedipus, 
and  his  brother  is  Eteocles  king  of  the  Thebans.  And  the  eagle 
that  has  amyea  safe  and  sound  is  noble  Adrastus  alone.  And 
this  bird  which  thou  seest  to  be  drowned,"  said  he,  "  is  Hippo- 
medon ;  and  the  bird  which  thou  seest  gnawing  another's  head, 
that  is  Tydeus,  son  of  Oeneus,  and  Melanippus." 

Then  Amphiaraus  burst  into  weeping,  and  Melampus  asked  : 
"  Wherefore  dost  thou  weep,  O  sad  one,  just  now  ? "  Melampus 
said.  "  Sad  indeed  is  that,  thou  noble  and  venerable  Melampus," 
said  Amphiaraus.  "  I  recognise,"  said  he,  "  by  yon  bird  that  has 
fallen  without  finding  a  place  or  position  that  it  is  I  myself  that 
will  fall  down  through  the  earth  at  the  great  war  of  Thebes." 
Now  a  great  quaking  fear  seized  those  prophets  and  wizards, 
and  the  seeing  of  that  vision  they  thought  terrible,  and  Am- 
phiaraus doffed  his  noble  sacrificial  garment,  and  he  came  into 
the  mountain  gloomily  dejectedly,  so  that  he  could  not  put  from 
his  thoughts  the  war  of  Thebes,  as  if  it  were  carried  on  at  that 
hour.  And  he  went  not  into  the  house  of  king  Adrastus,  nor  to 
converse  with  the  nobles  of  the  assembly ;  but  he  hid  himself 
in  a  trackless  unknown  mound  without  the  knowledge  of  anyone. 
79 


E.  i5a  15  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  193b  n 

immorro  dobái  fein  isin  tsleib  chedna  co  cend  se  lá  7   se  ^  ' 
n-aidchi  can  labra  ré  duine.  574 

Et  o  nar-labradar  na  faidi  firindi  fesa  risna  Gregaib,  vogre- 
sistar1  Eoip  mor,  mac  Saduirn,  cend  cumachtach  coitchend 

i265caich,   g&sraid   Greg   dochum   na   Teibi   do2   togail,  comdais 
fasaighthi  na  feranda  7  duine  7  di/ignada3  na  Gregi  ré  leiri 
1  lanméd  tinoil  na  treinfer  si»,  cona  fagadhais*  a  mna  -j  mic  7  578 
mindame  ag  nuallguba  da  n-eis.    Is  andsm  roglanaid  7  radai»g- 
nigid5  carpaid  cmeslethna  corpora.   Ralimaid  7  rolondraigid6 

i27oslega  suai^meacha  sodibraicthi  a  meirgi  7  a  migne7  leo-siwm. 
Raslibaid  7  roslemnaigid  cloidmi  aithgAera  urnoc/tia  aco-sam8 
ré  har  7  ré  hoirleach  a  n-escarad.  Raniamaid  -j  ronuaglanaid 
cathbarr[a]9  cruin/ie  cumdachta  7  luireacha  drolmanacha10 
dubglasa  leó.    R[o]c/ii«»aid  [711  Eg.]  rocAoimsigid  i/iair  chaema 

1275  cruadc/io/?iraig12  fa  chneasaib  na  ct*rad  sin,  7  tucad  leo  fedmanda 
fillti  for  bogadaib13  csema  cornectaib.  Ralegaid-j raluathc/iaraaid 
a  n-iarrnaigi  athcnaiti14  arathair,  a  corrana  [coimremra  Eg.]  7  a 
rastail  troma  treuairi,  cor/idais  airm  aithgera  urlama  a  n-agaid 
irgaili.    Radidnid  7  radaingnigid  a  sceith  chaidi  cathbuadacha 

1 280  do  seitidaib  gorma  glsedecair15  tiuga  togaidhi  tarb. 

Et  raergedar  uili  a  n-senfecAi  co  hsewmenmnach  na  Greig 
co  hArgas16  7  co  teach  an  righ  uasail  Ad?'aist  corTcraitheadh17 
feigi  na  firmaimindti  gair  gasmidi18  Greg  ag  tin/fscedal 
tachair  re  lucht  na  Teibi  coma  coma19  samalta  i[n]  nuall  sin 

12851  tulborb  fogragad20  na  cruinni  co/nairdi  ac  athcumsgugad21 
don  choraid22  cwrata  .i.  Encheladus,  da  sleibtib  sarmora  na 
Sigili  srotaidi. 

Et  is  amíaid  imúster  co  rugad  an  corad  sin  fa  sleibtib  na  595 
Sigili  .i.  daine  mera  mileata23  badar  an  tusu  na  haimsiri  7  is 

1290Í  comairli  rochindsed,  tocht  do  togail  nime  *j  rigi  do  gabail. 
Et  o  'dchualadar  [na  Eg.]  dee  si/i  .i.  Ioip  7  Apaill  7  na  dei 

1  Eg.  rogresetar  2  Eg.  da  3  Eg.  ferurma  7  duna  7  dighnadha 

4  Eg.  faghadis  5  Eg.  rogla?tadh  7  rodai?ign[ig]it  6  Eg.  7  rolendraighedh 
7  Eg.  7  a  n-idhnarf/m  8  MSS.  acomsam  9  Eg.  cathbarra  10  Eg.  drolmacha, 
11  Eg.  7  12  Eg.  cruaidb  13  MS.  for  lorbogadaib,  lor  underlined  Eg.  ar  bogb- 
14  Eg.  atbcnitbi  1S  Eg.  gleoeccair  16  Eg.  Grecaig  co  hArgusa 

17  Eg.  croitheadh  18  E.  gasraigi  19  E.  coma  coma <  20  E.  jro5fVA"0.<yO 
Eg.  fograidbi^Jti  21  Eg.  atbcumscnadagb  22  Eg.  cburáidb 

23  Eg.  mileatai  24  Eg.  ann  a  dus 


THE  THEBAID 

Moreover  Melampus  was  himself  in  the  same  mountain  for  six 
days  and  six  nights  without  speaking  to  mortal. 

And  since  the  prophets  did  not  speak  truth  of  knowledge  to 
the  Greeks,  great  Jove,  son  of  Saturn,  mighty  common  head 
of  all,  urged  the  youthful  soldiery  of  the  Greeks  to  go  to  Thebes 
and  sack  it,  so  that  the  lands,  forts,  and  strongholds  of  Greece 
might  be  unoccupied  owing  to  the  thoroughness  and  full  measure 
of  the  muster  of  those  champions,  that  they  might  not  leave 
their  wives,  boys,  and  little  ones  wailing  behind  them.  Then 
wide-mouthed  very  large  chariots  were  cleaned  and  strengthened. 
Thonged  and  easily  hurled  spears  were  ground  and  burnished 
from  rust  and  ugliness  by  them.  Very  sharp  naked  swords  were 
polished  and  made  smooth  by  them  in  order  to  slaughter  and 
slay  their  enemies.  Round  shapely  helmets  and  linked  dark-grey 
coats  of  mail  were  made  lustrous  and  newly  bright  by  them. 
Beautiful  battle-enduring  tunics  were  shaped  and  fitted  on 
the  bodies  of  those  heroes,  and  efforts  to  bend  were  expended 
by  them  on  beautiful  curved  bows.  Their  worn-out  plough 
irons,  their  stout  sickles,  and  their  heavy  rakes  of  husbandry 
were  melted  and  moulded,  so  that  they  were  sharp  ready 
weapons  for  strife.  Their  hard  battle-victorious  shields  were 
protected  and  strengthened  by  blue  layer-glued  tough  choice 
bull-hides. 

And  all  at  once  unanimously  the  Greeks  set  out  for  Argos 
and  for  the  house  of  the  noble  king  Adrastus,  and  the  shout  of 
the  Greek  soldiery,  beginning  a  contest  with  the  people  of 
Thebes,  shook  the  ridge-pole  of  the  firmament,  so  that  that 
shout  was  like  the  sudden  and  rude  noise  of  the  well-balanced 
globe  being  convulsed  by  the  heroic  champion,  to  wit,  Enceladus, 
from  his  noble  mighty  hills  of  well-watered  Sicily. 

And  thus  it  is  told  that  that  hero  was  born  among  the  hills 
of  Sicily,  to  wit,  wild  warlike  men  existed  at  the  beginning  of 
time,  and  this  is  the  counsel  they  resolved  on,  to  go  and  sack 
heaven  and  seize  sovereignty.  And  when  the  gods,  to  wit,  Jove, 
Apollo  and  all  the  gods  heard  that,  they  gave  battle  to  those 
c  81  6 


E.  i5a  46  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i94a  8 

a[r]  chena1,  doc/izursedar  cath  risna  coradaib  si?i  7  riu  seig   ne,J' 
aderthái    mi'c   an    talraan    ara    tru?na    7    ara    talmaigeacht. 
Ramebaid  orra  an  cath  sin,  7  rochenglaid  7  rachuibrigid  risna 

1295  deib2  iad,  7  doc/mzread  fer  dib  fa  shliab  Athna.  Et  is  ed 
imúster  an  trath  chuireas  cor  no  culscal3  de,  conseideami4 
srwth  casracha  teinead  a  taeb  ant  sleibi,  7  roceanglaid  ancZsin 
Enceladws  bá  tri  sleibtib  na  Sigili  .i.  Lilbeus5  7  P&cinnus 
7  Pilori/5,  7  antan  concumsc&igenn 6  an  coraid  sin,  cWthfog- 

i3oomigid7  cruinne  na  firmairainnti  uili,  7  ba  cosmail  rissin 
nuallgair  na  nGreg  ag  iarraid  thachair  risna  Tiabanda. 

Et  asa  haithli  sin  rochomerig  fer  brigach  borrfadach  soichsi/i- 
ach8  sotal  sochi/zelach  i.  Capaneus,  an  sechtmad  ri  an  toicheastail  598 
sin  na  nGreg,  -j  is  é  an  fer  egennais  (p.  16)  inniriseach  sin  nach 

i305denad  ni  ar  deib  na  ar  daimb,  7  rolabair  Capaneus  -j :  "Is 
dillsiugwd  -j  is  dimigi/19  dui?id,"  ar  se,  "a  Aimpiaraius,  an  coimlin 
c«?'ad  cu??itaig,  [a]tai-si  ag  urnaidi10  fhaistme  ae?idui?ie  'sin 
doman.  Et  mad  misi  chena,"  ar  se,  "  nocha  biu  ag  urnaidi11 
ris,  uair  is  and  ata  mo  chumachta  comlai[n]d  am  chlaidi?^12,  615 

1310-]  doden-sa  faistke  daib,  a  Gregu,  muna  derna  Amryiaraus." 

Et  o  raiadsadair  na  Greig  fan  ngilla  si??,  raerig  Ampiaraus,  619 
-j  adubairt :  "  Nocha  n-ar  glor  ogal  ainindeach13  Cavjaneuis,  na 
re  hegla  dodenai?id-si  faistiwe  daib,  acht  ar  bar  ngrád  fein. 
Acht  ata  ni  chena,  a  thruaga,  ca  dasacht  7  ca  drochciall  imlu- 

131 5  aigz's14  sib?  Et  ca  miscais  doberthai  daib  fein,  -j  dá  bar  cathraig, 
do  Argus,  antan  teigthi  d'  bidsaigi  na  Tiabanda,  7  créd  ma 
tucsabair  orm15  faistiwe  duib  ?  Uair  adchondarciis  derbairdida 
digla  dermairi  daib,  a  Gregu,  7  rothescad  snaitheada  bar 
saegail  ag  na  Parchip  iferndaigi."    Uair  tri  mna  aderar  do 

i32obeith  i  n-iferw,  7  fairchi  aderar  riu,  7  cuigeal  go??a  cuigeallach16 
aca  a  trmr  a  chuma  shaegail  each  duivte  .i.  bean  dib  ag  imaxchur 
na  cuigili17  .i.  Clotha,  -j  bean  ag  sni??i  ant  snaithi  .i.  [Lacesis  .i. 
in  tres  ben  ic  tescad  int  snaithi  Eg.]  Atrorjus.  "Et,  a  thruaga, 
a  Ghregu,"  ar  se,  Amjyiarus,  "  ca  hailleas18  daib  treba  na  Teibi 

1  E.  chena  7  2  Eg.  lesnadeib  3  Eg.  cumscal  4  Eg.  soidhenn  5  Eg.  Libeus 
6  E.  conewmscaidenn  Eg.  eoncumscnaidbinn  7  E.  cn'thfograidid  Eg.  crith- 
fograidhi  8  E.  soichsinacha  9  Eg.  ar  dainib. riam...dimecin  10  Eg.  cum- 
daig  atai-si  ic  Ixxmaidi  E.  umaigi  n  E.  urnaigi  Eg.  turnaidi  12  Eg.  mo 
cumachta  a  comhiid  mo  claidim  13  Eg.  ainin/ieacb.  a  14  Eg.  drocchiall 
imluaighis  li  Eg.  oirni  lc  Eg.  eona  guigell-  17  Eg.  cuigile  18  Eg.  ftiltt* 
82 


THE  THEBAID 

heroes,  and  they  were  called  the  sons  of  the  earth  because  of 
their  heaviness  and  earthiness.  That  battle  went  against  them, 
and  they  were  bound  and  made  fast  by  the  gods ;  and  one  of 
them  was  placed  under  mount  Etna.  And  it  is  said  that  when 
he  makes  a  turn  or  utters  a  roar,  a  stream  of  fiery  hail  blows 
from  the  side  of  the  hill ;  and  Enceladus  was  bound  there  under 
the  three  hills  of  Sicily,  to  wit,  Lilybaeus,  Pachynus,  and  Pelorus; 
and  when  that  hero  moves,  the  globe  of  the  whole  firmament 
quakingly  resounds.  And  like  that  was  the  yell  of  the  Greeks 
as  they  sought  an  encounter  with  the  Thebans. 

And  thereupon  uprose  a  man  powerful  proud  conspicuous 
haughty  well-born,  to  wit,  Capaneus,  one  of  the  seven  kings  of 
that  muster  of  the  Greeks  ;  and  he  was  that  ungentle  irreligious 
man  who  would  do  nothing  for  gods  or  men,  and  Capaneus 
spoke :  "  It  is  a  forfeiture  and  contempt  for  us,  Amphiaraus,"  said 
he,  "that  thou  with  an  equal  number  of  powerful  heroes  art 
waiting  for  a  prophecy  of  any  human  being  in  the  world.  And 
as  for  me,"  said  he,  "  I  am  not  waiting  for  him,  since  there  lies 
my  power  of  conflict,  in  my  sword ;  and  I  shall  make  a  prophecy 
for  you,  O  Greeks,  if  Amphiaraus  do  not." 

And  when  the  Greeks  had  assembled  round  that  youth, 
Amphiaraus  arose  and  said :  "  It  is  not  because  of  the  vehement 
angry  outcry  of  Capaneus,  nor  from  fear,  that  I  would  make  a 
prophecy  to  you,  but  for  love  of  yourselves.  But  there  is  one 
thing  more,  ye  wretched  ones,  what  madness  and  what  folly  L*s 
excite/  you  ?  And  what  hatred  ao  y%u  show  to  yourselves  and 
to  your  city  of  Argos,  when  ye  go  to  attack  the  Thebans  ? 
And  wherefore  have  ye  forced  upon  me  a  prophecy  to  you  ? 
For  I  have  seen  portents  of  very  great  vengeance  on  you, 
O  Greeks,  and  the  threads  of  your  life  have  been  cut  by  the 
infernal  Parcae."  For  three  women  are  said  to  live  in  hell,  and 
they  are  called  Parcae,  and  the  three  have  a  distaff  with  its 
material  to  shape  every  man's  life,  to  wit,  one  of  them  carries 
the  distaff,  to  wit,  Clotha ;  one  spins  the  thread,  to  wit,  Lachesis ; 
the  third  cuts  the  thread,  to  wit,  Atropus.  "  And,  ye  wretched 
ones,  ye  Greeks,"  said  Amphiaraus,  "  what  gratification  is  it  for 
you  that  the  homesteads  of  Thebes  should  be  manured  with  the 
83  6-2 


E.  1 6«i  19  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i94b  3 

1325  do  thuar  d'  apaigib  bar  corp  arna  marbaa7  ar  moigib  cathrach    ^  ' 
Caithi??i  1  ge-tu-sa  'ca  bar  toirmesc  ? "  ar  sé,  "  uair  is  cirmti  co 
racham  uili  and." 

Et  rabai  an  sagart  ana  thast  Ampiaraus  andsi»,  -j  dorad 
Capanews  athis  aridisi1  ar  Ampiarous,  -]  adubairt :  "  Bi-siu  co 

i33otimteitheadach  isin  Greig,  -]  each  sen  ara  n-urailfi2  tú  eagla 
tred   t'    faistine,    -j    na   heist-siu   risna   stoccaib    tendgluaire  650 
Tirramida.    Et  dogein-sa  fein,"  ar  se,  "faistine  da  gach  sen  tia3 
learn  dochum  an  cathaigthi."    Et  is  uime  aderar  Tirran«da, 
risna  stoccaib,  uair  Terenws,   ri  na  Tusceta,  brathair  Lidh, 

1335  ce£dui??e  risir-[sin>iea7A  Eg.]  sdocc  riam  ar  tuss. 

Et  rofograigsed4  Greig  bresmaidw,  ndermair  tresin  seiseilbi 
sirgloir  dori?idsead  ag  comaentaig5  ré  Capaneits,  amoZ  fogrugud6 
doni  sruth  buinni  dian  dileanw7  a  n-ai??isir  adfuair  earrchaidi  67 1 
dar  fegaib  -\  dar  fanglentaib  an  talman8.    Et  0  tainic  in  adaig9, 

i34orascailsead  na  cur&id  sin  a  comrath ;  -j  gid  sochaidi  dochodail, 
no  cha  n-i  Argi[a],  ingen  Adraist,  hen  Poilinixeis,  rochodail  ré 
himsnim  -]  ré  hudmailli  me»man  a  los  a  fir,  uair  ni  fagad  si 
csemthachfas]10  na  co??irath  in  fhir  sin  ré  snim  -j  ré  sirimrad 
cíndf/s    dodenad    ré    brathair    ima   chuid    don   rigi   -j    don11 

1345  fhlaithws. 

Et  tainig,  clerid  aidchi,  roimpi  co  teach  rigda  roard  a  hatha/-12 
-j  a  mac  fein  [-]  a  meic  bice  Eg.  om.]  ina  laim  .i.  Tesanndrus, 
mac  Poilinicseis ;  -j  adubairt  si  ré  hathaiV :  "  Rafider  tusa,  a 
athair  inmain,  a  Adraist,"  ar  si13,  "an  toisc  'ma  tanag-sa  an 

i35otech-sa14,  Adraist,  cen  co  hindusax  dit15.  Et  ni  hé  Poilinixes 
adrubairt  [rim]  teacht,  acht  mad16  duba  -\  domeawma,  (p.  17) 
eccumsunad17  -j  etfualang  dom-buaidread  o  thucais-[s]iu  mi  do 
Folinices.  Et,  a  ri,  adei[r]18  ritsa,  tabair  furtacht  ar  in  fear 
si??,  commor  catha  les  do  chosnum  na  Tebi,  -|  a  athair  inmaiw," 

1355  ar  si,  "abair  i[n]  tibrea,  uair  rocharas-[s]a  in  fer  sin,  -j  is 
coraide  ditsiu  cufignam  les19 ;  -|  ge-tu-sa  aniu[gh]  ac  tendad 

1  E.  arigisi   Eg.  aris  2  Eg.  ara  furailfe  3  E.  dodein-sa...Eg.  thi 

4  E.  rofograidsed    Eg.  rofograidhset  Grecaigh  5  Eg.  dorighneset  i[c] 

comsentugud  c  Eg.  fogradhugud  '  Eg.  dilearm  8  E.  C-Altri^n 

9  Eg.  aiged  10  Eg.  coemthachas  u  Eg.  do  denum  re  a  braithir  imon 

righi  7  imon         12  Eg.  roaird  a  athar         l3  E.  .A^pe         14  Eg.  fa  tanicusa 
as  teeh-sa  1S  Eg.  hinniser  duit  M  Eg.  ma  17  E.  ma  repeated 

from  domeanma  18  Eg.  7  arna  deibh  19  Eg.  duitsi...leis  é 

84 


THE  THEBAID 

entrails  of  your  bodies  after  they  have  been  slain  upon  the 
plains  of  Cadmus'  city,  even  though  I  am  hindering  you  ? "  said 
he,  "  since  it  is  a  certainty  that  we  shall  all  arrive  there." 

And  the  priest  remained  silent  then,  and  Capaneus  heaped 
insult  again  upon  Armphiaraus,  and  said:  "  Remain  thou,  a  feeble 
fugitive,  in  Greece,  thou  and  every  one  whom  thou  wilt  inspire 
with  fear  by  thy  prophecy,  and  listen  not  thou  to  the  keen  and 
soft  Tyrrhenian  trumpets.  And  I  myself,"  said  he,  "  will  make 
a  prophecy  to  every  one  who  will  come  with  me  to  the  war." 
And  trumpets  are  called  Tyrrhenian  for  this  reason,  because 
Tyrrhenus,  king  of  the  Tuscans,  brother  of  Lydus,  was  the  first 
man  to  whom  a  trumpet  was  ever  blown  at  the  outset. 

And  the  Greeks  uttered  a  huge  crash  of  sound  through  the 
long-voiced  tumult  they  made  in  agreeing  with  Capaneus,  like 
the  sound  which  a  stream  rushing  headlong  in  flood  makes  in 
chill  spring-time  down  the  watersheds  and  the  sloping  glens  of 
the  earth.  And  when  the  night  came,  those  heroes  dispersed 
from  conversing;  and  though  many  slept,  it  was  not  Argia, 
daughter  of  Adrastus,  wife  of  Polynices,  that  slept  owing  to  care 
and  anxiety  of  mind  regarding  her  husband,  since  she  could  not 
get  that  husband's  company  or  conversation  owing  to  anxiety 
and  long  deliberation  how  he  should  act  towards  his  brother 
regarding  his  share  of  the  kingdom  and  the  sovereignty. 

And  at  the  end  of  the  night  she  proceeded  to  her  father's 
lofty  palace,  holding  her  own  son  (and  her  little  children)  by  her 
hand,  to  wit,  Thessander,  son  of  Polynices.  And  she  said  to  her 
father :  "  Thou  knowest,  O  beloved  father,  Adrastus,"  said  she, 
<l  the  errand  on  which  I  have  come  to  thy  house,  Adrastus, 
though  it  be  not  told  thee.  And  it  was  not  Polynices  that  told 
me  to  come  but  only  gloom  and  dejection,  restlessness  and 
hardship  were  troubling  me  since  thou  gavest  me  to  Polynices. 
And  I  say  to  thee,  0  king,  give  succour  to  that  husband,  gather 
battalions  with  him  to  fight  for  Thebes  and,  O  beloved  father," 
said  she,  "  say  whether  thou  wilt  give  it,  for  I  have  given  my  love 
to  that  husband ;  and  it  is  the  more  just  that  thou  shouldest 
help  him ;  and  though  I  am  to-day  urging  the  contest,  methinks 

85 


E.  i7a  6  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i94b  36 


Theb. 


in  tachair,  is  doig  learn  biait1  aris  acca  thairraesc  re  hecla  uilc  m 
daibsi."   Et  asa  haithli  si??  ropoc  Adraist  a  ingin,  -j :  "  A  ingen,"  710 
ar  se,  "ni  aiscim  ort  in  geran  dani  -j   in  n-aici??e  fuacraid. 
1360  Cuir  dit  t'  ecla  -|  dena  do  cheli  do  chomdidnad2,  uair  atamaid- 
ne  ac  far  in  chatha  si»  -j  is  cinti  a  chur."    Et  o  thainic  in 
mate»  re  cn'chaib  in  chomraid  si?i,  roerig  Adraist. 


IV 

Tri  bliadna,  tra  co  haes  na  hai???sire  ailli  errchaide  si??  robas3   £ 
ac  iur  na  fingaili  si??  iter  na  Tiauandaib  -j  na  Grecaib.   Et  ergid 

1365  in  badb  catha  cosnamach  -\  rocAroithistair4  aithi??deda5  adanta 
uruada  uas  cathrachaibh  na  nGrec  -j  na  Tiauanda.  Rogair 
1  rograi??  uas  na  longportcn'6  lethna  lanfata  cora-gabsadar 
buidne  bruthmara  -j  trenfhir  talchara6  a  n-armu  aithgera 
ri  tenta  tindeanais  na  baidbi  beldergi  si??.    Et  o  tawic  amser 

1 370  in  chatha  do  cho?nmorad,  doronaid  idbarta  aidbli  mora  leo,  co 
samlaitis  na  sacairt  maith7  tresna  hidbartaib  doib  iartai??. 
Et  is  andsin  roergedar  maccaim  beca  buaigelta8,  -j  ingena 
nuaglana  nairecha,  -j  seanoraig9  crina  chrotbolla  do  celebrad 
do??a  fearaib  sin,  co  snigtis  frasa  diana  der  dar  cathbarraib 

1375  cocuasta,  dar  armaib  -j  etaigib10  na  carad  mmmUa,11  sin  ac 
pocad  a  cheli  re  scarad. 

Tochastol  na  nGrec  andso  xiadeasta. 

Is  iat  so  na  ciniuda  dochuadar  dochu???,  in  chatha  si?r,  cona 
rigaib  uaisli  leo  .i.  in  ri  toirrsech12  tastenach  anband  aniwdech  40 

i33osnimach  sirchelgach  Adraist.  Et  ni  ba  setrech  re  himurc/Vt/r13 
n-airm  in  fer  si??,  cwht  mad  a  cloideam  nama,  -j  a  airm  aca 
muntzr  'na  degaid.  Rocheangail  -j  roc/?M???daig  a  ara  a  eocho 
diana  deigretha  i  ndor?<s  na  cathrach  Larisa,  -j  robai  a  ech14 
socair  soermach  .i.  Areon,  ac  doibli  -\  ac  dseibili15,  -j  ua  comartha  43 

1385  uilc  iartai??  acco-so??16  si??. 

1  Eg.  beth  2  Eg.  accaiiie  uaircraid  fort...comdigbnad  E.  chomding- 

nad    Eg.  cuir  dit  t'  ecla  om.  3  Eg.  robais  4  Eg.  rochrothastaii* 

5  Eg.  aithindea  6  Eg.  trein  talcurtba  '  Eg.  consamladis...maithe 

8  Eg.  buaidhghela       9  Eg.  senora       10  Eg.  dar  etaighibb       u  Eg.  cumach- 
tacb  13  Eg.  cona  rigaib  uaisli  leo  om. :  ri  taisecb  13  Eg.  himttrchar 

14  Eg.  doui  ech  15  Eg.  ic  dobli  7  ic  dobeili  16  Eg.  acuso 

86 


THE  THEBAID 

it  is  likely  that  I  shall  be  again  hindering  it,  for  fear  of  evil 
to  you."  And  after  that  Adrastus  kissed  his  daughter,  and : 
"  Daughter,"  said  he,  "  I  do  not  cast  back  upon  thee  the 
complaint  thou  makest  and  the  excessive  lamentation.  Put 
from  thee  thy  fear,  and  cause  thy  spouse  to  be  comforted,  since 
we  are  preparing  for  that  battle,  and  its  being  fought  is  a 
certainty."  And  since  the  morning  came  before  the  limits  of 
that  conversation,  Adrastus  arose. 


BOOK  IV 

Now  for  three  years  up  to  the  time  of  that  beautiful  spring- 
tide they  had  been  preparing  for  that  fratricide  between  the 
Thebans  and  the  Greeks.  And  the  contentious  war-goddess  arose, 
and  brandished  flaming  baleful  torches  over  the  cities  of  the 
Greeks  and  the  Thebans.  She  cried  and  spread  horror  over  the 
broad  and  very  long  camps  so  that  furious  troops  and  stubborn 
mighty  men  seized  their  very  sharp  arms  through  pressure  of 
the  hastening  of  that  red-mouthed  goddess.  And  when  the  time 
came  for  that  battle  to  be  drawn  up,  huge  and  great  sacrifices 
were  made  by  them,  so  that  the  priests  might  cause  an  equal  good 
to  them  afterwards  through  the  sacrifices,  and  then  arose  small 
choice  white  boys,  and  fresh  pure  modest  girls,  and  withered 
decrepit  seniors  to  bid  farewell  to  those  men,  so  that  swift 
showers  of  tears  were  dripping^over  the  hollow  helms,  over  the 
arms  and  clothing  of  those  ■powerful  friends  as  they  kissed  one 
another  before  parting. 

The  muster  of  the  Greeks  now  hereafter. 

These  are  the  nations  that  went  to  that  war,  and  theirnoble 
kings  with  them,  to  wit,  the  sad,  silent,  feeble,  angry,  anxious, 
ever  guileful  king,  Adrastus.  And  that  man  was  not  strong  to 
carry  arms,  save  it  were  his  sword  only,  his  arms  being  with  his 
people  behind  him.  His  charioteer  yoked  and  caparisoned  his 
swift  well-running  horses  in  the  gate  of  the  city  of  Larissa ;  and 
his  quiet  well-coursing  horse,  Arion,  was  becoming  restive  and 
hard-mouthed ;  and  to  them  that  was  a  sign  of  evil  to  come. 

87 


E.  i7a  43  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i95a  31 

Is  andsi??  roergedar  slúaig  -\  sochaidi  -j  sochraideada  in  rig   r®  ' 
uasail,  Adraist,  asa  cathrachaib  dilsi  dathglana1  uadein.    Et 
it  e2  andso  a  maz/mand-side  .i.  Larisa,  -j  Procim/a,  -j   Mida,  44 
1  Pilos,  -j  Neris  ar  bru  srotha  Caradron.3,  -j  Cleon,  -j  Tilé  i 

i39ocn'chaib  na  Lecdomoin ;  -j  tangadar  na  ciniuda  co?>mesta4  a 
slebtib  cairrgecha  Drepab/  -\  asan  chathraig  as  Sition5  iter  in 
sruth  lanmor  Lanfigia  -\  in  sruth  (col.  /3)  n-adbul  Eleos  ;  -\  tangas  52 
asi?z  chathraig  uraird  oaibind6  a  hEfir,  -j  a  Conrge  -j  asna  crichaib7  59 
uile  iter  topzw  primalai/id  Pegais  iar  n-iart/mr,  -j  in  sliab  n-aibind  62 

1395  Ithmos  iar  n-airt/u/tr,-]  in  muir  n-ard  nAdriadecda8  iar  tuaiscert, 
-j  in  muir  n-ai?/btheanach  nEgeta9  iar  n[d]escert,  i  sochraide 
Adraist.  Et  ua  tri  mile  lin10  int  [sjloig  sin  ac  subochus  'ma 
rig11  co  n-armaib  ecsamlaib,  uair  ni  ua  cosmail  na  ciniuda, 
uair  rouadar  cesfhagada12  lethna  langera  ac  fori?;d  dona  fearaib 

1400  sin,  -j  lethgai  londrecha  lasa??ma  ac  airiucht  aile13  dib,  -j  taibli 
taidlecha14  tula??tuis15,  1  boga  blaithi  beandchruaidi  ac  drem 
aile16.    Et  ua  samalta  in  ri  uasal  Adraist  iter  na  haireachtaib  69 
si//  .i.  tarb17 n-ard  n-aduathmar  co  n-imad  crecht  arna  cnesugurf18 
ina  curp  conna  fedad  ocdaira19  na  n-almad  fegad  fair  ri  haduath 

1405  a  adarc  tulmsel  tamnaigthi20  ri  tenta  gacha  tachair21. 

Is  anásin,  immorro,  fothocaib  in  trenfher  tend  talchar 
Tiauanda  YoMnices,  mac  Eidip,  a  mergeda  ardda22  aduathmara ; 
-]  as23  iad  ua  cuingid24  chatha  'man  fer  si//,  na  Tiauanda  tarrisi 
tangadar  asa  tir  da  n-i/;dsaigid,*-|  cethirna  [na  Eg.]  cathrach 

i4ioratin//scarnastar25  Adraist  do  maroen  re  [a  Eg.]  ingm;  -j  at  iat  81 
so  na  cathracha  .i.  Eogeo/i26,  -j  Arenen,  -j  cathair  Teis  ím'c  Eig 
rai'c   Nemtuir27  .i.   Toeiste.    Et  ua  hi?2und  arm  -j  etgud  do 
YoMnices  inn  uair  sin  -]  inn  adaig28  tanic  riam  remi  co  tech 
Adraisi  .i.  croicend  leomam  talchair  Teomesecda29  i??ie,  -j  slega 

i4i5ri?zdgera  roremra  ina  laim,  gu  ngo?/ad-som  remi  -j  da  eis  dib 

1  E.  T).Ai;5l.Aru\  2  Eg.  at  é  3  Eg.  ar  bru  tsrotha  Caru- 

tron  4  Eg.  ciniugha  coimnesta  6  E.  aisitio/i  Eg.  isin  cathraig  iastoin 
6  Eg.  tancastar...n-uraird  n-aibind  7  E.  chrichaib  8  Eg.  nAdhriata 

9  Eg.  n-ambfenaig...nEdgeda  10  Eg.  a  lin  X1  Eg.  mun  ri  12  Eg.  cesfhagha 
13  Eg.  ic  oireacht  ele  14  Eg.  taidhbhli  15  Eg.  tul-rimnais  (?)  16  Eg.  ic 
dreim  ele  dibh  17  Eg.  sin  7  tarb  18  Eg.  imat...cnessud  19  Eg.  fetfudh 
occdaim  20  E.  tamnaigbi  Eg.  taman<u;7t/ze  21  Eg.  tenta  in  tachair 

22  Eg.  talchair... mergedha  ardu  23  Eg.  is  24  Eg.  cuingedha  25  Eg.  rotinns- 
gnadar  2G  Eg.  Eógho///  -1  Eg.  Neptuir  28  E.  agaig  Eg.  aiged 

29  Eg.  tachair  Teomescdha 

88 


THE  THEBAID 

Then  arose  the  hosts,  multitudes,  and  allies  of  the  noble  king, 
Adrastus,  out  of  their  own  proper  bright-hued  cities.  And  these 
are  their  names,  to  wit,  Larissa,  Proshymna,  Midea,  Phlius, 
Neris  on  the  brink  of  the  river  Charadrus,  Cleonae,  and  Thyrea 
in  the  confines  of  Lacedaemon  ;  and  the  kindred  nations  came 
from  the  rocky  mountains  of  Drepanum,  and  from  the  city  of 
Sicyon  between  the  very  great  river  Langia  and  the  huge  river 
of  Elison ;  and  they  came  from  the  very  lofty  pleasant  city  of 
Ephyre,  and  from  Cenchreis,  and  from  the  whole  confines 
between  the  eminently  beautiful  well  of  Pegasis  (Phlegethon  ?) 
in  the  West,  and  the  beautiful  mount  Isthmos  in  the  East,  and 
the  high  Adriatic  sea  in  the  North,  and  the  stormy  iEgean  sea 
in  the  South,  they  came  as  allies  of  Adrastus.  And  three 
thousand  was  the  number  of  that  host,  rejoicing  round  their 
king,  with  various  arms,  since  the  nations  were  not  similar,  for 
some  of  those  men  had  broad  very  sharp  missile  spears,  another 
assembly  of  them  had  brilliant  flaming  half-javelins,  another 
portion  had  bright  front-hitting  slings  and  smooth  hard-peaked 
bows.  And  the  noble  king  Adrastus,  amid  those  assemblies, 
resembled  a  lofty  dreadful  bull  with  a  multitude  of  wounds 
cicatrized  in  his  body,  so  that  the  oxen  of  the  herds  dared  not 
look  upon  him  for  dread  of  his  horns,  polled  in  front  and  lopt 
with  the  stress  of  every  encounter. 

There  too  the  violent  stubborn  Theban  stalwart,  Polynices, 
son  of  Oedipus,  raised  his  lofty  dreadful  standards;  and  these  were 
the  battle-champions  around  that  man,  the  steadfast  Thebans 
that  had  come  from  their  country  to  him,  and  the  troops  of  the 
cities  which  Adrastus  had  given  him  as  a  dowry  along  with  his 
daughter;  and  these  are  the  cities,  to  wit,  Aegion,  Arene,  and 
the  city  of  Theseus,  son  of  Aegeus,  son  of  Neptune,  to  wit, 
Troezen.  And  Polynices  had  the  same  armour  and  clothing  at 
that  time  as  on  the  night  on  which  he  had  formerly  proceeded 
to  the  house  of  Adrastus,  to  wit,  about  him  the  skin  of  a  stout 
Teumesian  lion,  and  sharp-pointed  very  thick  spears  in  his  hand 
wherewith  he  could  wound  in  front  and  rear,  and  a  long  keen- 


E.  i;b  32  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i95b  30 

sin,  1  cloideb  fata  firfasbrach  uar  a  chliu,  co  ndelb1  in  torathair   IV  ' 
romarbad  la  hEidip  and  .i.  Spi[n]x2.    Cid  tra  acht  ua  fata  re 
Folinices  techt  in  turas3  [s]in  intan  doberead  da  uid  Argia, 
ingen  Adraist,  a  banchele4  uadem  d'[fh]ácuail5  da  eis  -j  ua 

1420  tiwdeanus  leis  tocht  d'  indsaigi  a  flaithiusa  a  mathar  -]  a 
muntire  in  feacht  aile6;  -j  ua  ceithri  mili  lin  na  sochraidi  sin 
'man  trenfher  sin. 

Is  andsin  immorro  rochoraig  in  fer  sotal7  saignénta  failid  93 
arnaid  esadail8  .i.  Tid,  a  munU'r  uar  aii'd9,  -j  roerig  menma  i?i 

1425  miled  sin  o  'tchualaich  na  stuccu  ca  senm,  amal  eirges  nathair 
oilmir10  anindech11  re  tinchur  na  greni  i  llo  samraid  sohtsta,  co 
ntobruchtad12  tondgar  a  nemi  uar  feraib  futhremra13,  cuna 
lamad  duine  na  ceithri  buaira  ris.  Et  ua  hiat  sluaig  mU  fhir 
sin14,  ciniuda  calraa  Philine15,  -j  milid16  primda  Pleuro/;,  -\  is  103 

1430  i«ti  sin  robid17  a  brathair-sium  .i.  Meliager,  -j  cetherna  calma 
Calido/?e,  -j  aireachta18  Elenós,  -j  curaid19  na  cathrach20  Colchis, 
1  aitrebaid21  (p.  18)  int  srotha  Achilous,  cathracha  na  hEdailli22 
i  c?-ichaib  na  Calidoi?;e  sin,  Et  is  amlaid  badar  lucht  na 
cathrach  sin,  -]  cathcliatha  aidbli  umaide  acco  do  diden  a  corp 

1435  recathugwrf,-]  laignedalethna  i?;a  lamaib  re  letrad23,-]cathbairr24 
cse?na  c^mdachta  i«ia25  cendaib ;  1  roiadsad  as  gach  aird  i??n 
ocuadatu  tend  togaide  sin  'man  milid26  maisech  morme/nnnach 
.i.  Tid,  mac  Oenius27.  Ua  subach  i  cathaib  in  cui»gid28  sin,  -\  ua 
tencii29  tomhaitheam  Tid  arna  Tiauandaib  na  bacur  Polinices. 

1440      As  a  haithli  sin  roerig  in  rig  ard  airegda30  .i.  Ipomedon  gasta 
gruadsolus;  -j  timsaigid31  a  shluaig  leis  o  bruichib  srotha  Ian-  117 
alaind  Lice,  -]  o  imblib  srotha  Inaich,  -j  o  crichaib  arda  srotha  119 
Asterio/i32.  Et  tancadar  and  da«o  na  dirmada  doilgiDriopecda33, 
-j   na  haireac/iia34  ai[d]bli  Epecda,  -j   na   hilbuidni   airrdrici  123 

1  Eg.  e!aidim...cleilbh  2  Eg.  Spinx  3  Eg.  don  turus  4  Eg.  bainchele 
6  Eg.  da  cúl  8  Eg.  n-aile  7  Eg.  sotul  8  Eg.  soideanta...armuidh  asaghail 
9  Eg.  urard  10  Eg.  oilmer  n  Eg.  ainindech  12  Eg.  aló...eon 

topruchtadh  13  Eg.  fathremra  14  Eg.  eethra...7  fa  hiat 

so  na  sloig  sin  in  fir  sin  15  Eg.  Poline  "  E.  milig 

17  Eg.  Pleiiaron  7  innte  sin  roui  18  Eg.  oirechtai  19  Eg.  curaigh 

20  E.  chathrach  21  Eg.  aitrebhtho/rfe  22  Eg.  hEtaille  23  Eg.  letrud 
24  Eg.  cathbarra  25  Eg.  uma  26  E.  milig  27  Eg.  Oeniusa  28  E.  cuingig 
29  Eg.  tende  i0  Eg.  ii  ard  airighedha  31  Eg.  tiumsaighit  32  Eg.  Aisterion 
33  Eg.  Droipecdha  34  Eg.  hoireachta 

90 


THE  THEBAID 

edged  sword  at  his  left  with  the  figure  of  the  monster  that  had 
been  killed  by  Oedipus  therein,  to  wit,  Sphinx.  Yet  Polynices 
was  loth  to  go  on  that  journey  when  it  was  borne  in  on  him 
that  Argia,  daughter  of  Adrastus,  his  own  spouse,  would  be  left 
behind;  and  at  another  time  he  was  in  haste  to  go  to  the 
kingdom  of  his  mother  and  of  his  people ;  and  four  thousand 
was  the  number  of  that  allied  multitude  about  that  mighty  man. 

Then,  too,  the  haughty,  fulminating,  joyous,  cruel,  restless 
man,  to  wit,  Tydeus,  set  his  people  forward ;  and  the  spirit  of 
that  soldier  rose  when  he  heard  the  trumpets  being  blown,  as 
rises  a  slimy  angry  serpent  before  the  influence  of  the  sun  on  a 
bright  summer  day,  so  that  waves  of  its  poison  were  belched 
over  woodland  grasses,  and  man  or  cattle  dared  not  touch  it. 
And  these  were  the  hosts  of  that  man,  the  brave  races  of  Pylene, 
and  the  excellent  soldiers  of  Pleuron,  wherein  dwelt  his  brother, 
to  wit,  Meleager ;  and  the  brave  troops  of  Calydon,  the  levies  of 
Olenos,  the  heroes  of  the  city  of  Chalcis,  and  dwellers  by  the 
river  Achelous,  cities  of  Italy  those,  in  the  confines  of  Calydon. 
And  thus  were  the  people  of  those  cities,  they  had  huge  brass 
cuirasses  to  defend  their  bodies  in  battle,  and  broad  spears  in 
their  hands  for  wounding,  and  beautiful  ornamented  helmets  on 
their  heads ;  and  from  every  quarter  those  strong  chosen  youths 
gathered  round  the  handsome  high-spirited  soldier,  to  wit, 
Tydeus,  son  of  Oeneus.  Joyous  in  battles  was  that  champion, 
and  sterner  was  the  menace  of  Tydeus  against  the  Thebans  than 
the  threat  of  Polynices. 

Thereafter  uprose  the  high  pre-eminent  king,  to  wit,  fresh 
bright-cheeked  Hippomedon ;  and  his  hosts  were  gathered  by 
him  from  the  banks  of  the  full-fair  river  Lyrcius,  from  the 
borders  of  the  river  Inachus,  and  from  the  high  confines  of  the 
river  Asterion.  And  there  came  too  the  hard  troops  of  the 
Dryopes,  and  the  huge  levies  of  Epeans,  and  the  many  famous 
9i 


E.  1 8a  1 6  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i96a  27 

1445  Epedurdá1;  7  tangadar  leis  fos  milid  inaithi  me»mnacha  na   ^  ' 
cathrach2  Dime,   7    buidne  dluithi   degdai»gne   na  cathrach 
Pilos,  7  ua  hesti3  sin  do  Neastoir,  mac  Taicsis,  rm'c  Nelews, 
do  chi»d  gaisi  Grec ;  7  ua  hoc  he4  in  tan  si»,  7  ger-b  oc,  roop5  127 
tocht   do    thogail    na   Tebe6    in    tan    si».     Acht   roimluaid7 

i45°Ipomed(')n  lucht  na  cathrach  leis  archeana  tre  laechdacht8  a 
llai?»e9  dochum  in  chatha.  Et  is  amlaid  bai  Ipomedon10, 
7  cathbarr  alai?id  umaidi  co  tri  ciraib  comarda11  cathbairr, 
coma  samalta  re  snechta  ara  sargili  ima12  cend,  7  ua  cengalta 
corp  in  curad18  sin  uile  o  armaib.    Uair  is  amlaid  robai-sim», 

1455  -j  crundsciath  luchair  lasamai»  fair,  co  ndelbaib  clowidi  Dánaus14  132 
-j  Beil.    Et  is  amlaid  rouadar  sec  inda  da  n[d]erbrathair15  -j  fich 
fergi  eturru.     Coica  ingen  ac  Danaus16  7  a  co»ilin17  sin  do 
maccaib  ac  Béil18;  7  adrubairt  Dánaus  re  [a  Eg.]  ingenaib : 
"  Dober-sa  sib,"  ar  se,  "do  maccaib  Beil,  -j  marbait-si  iat  isan 

Móooichdi."  Et  is  amlaid  si».19  doronad,  acht  oenbean  nama  -j  nir- 
marb-sei/i  a  fer  .i.  Linus.  Et  rauadar  delba  na  dremi  sin, 
7  delba  ileccair  imda  aile  isin  sciath  sin  arna  ri»dad  iwd, 
1  ua  samalta  concrithnigitis  na  coillti  -|  contairnitis  na  slebti 
sai»emna20  soimtheac/t/a  ua  cosaib  in  cwrad21  sin  a[c]  crathad 

1465  a  sceith  iter  na  haireac/^aib  re  tinchur  tachuir.    Et  cuich  in  144 
dune  da  ticfad22  na  ciniuda  cosnumacha  si?i  7  na  cuingid23 
chatha  -j  imad  air??i  na  milead  mormerannach  sin  d'  airium  ? 
Acht  chena  tangadar  tri  chet  do  gillib  occa  athluma  a  cathraig 
Ercoil  .i.  Tiri»dta;  taimc  d&no  and  margen  ris  Agellews24,  mac 

i47oErcail,  asin  chathraig25  ceina  marsen  re  Hipomedón.    Et  ge-r 
uaiti26  aittrebaidi  na  cathrach  si»,  ua  hairdi-side,  -j  ua  hairside 
in  n-aimsir  irgaile,  7  ni  rohimirchuirit  fagada27  seta  suai»mecha  154 
re  (col.  /3)  dibrucud28  acin  dreim  si»,  na  cloidme  cruaide  re 
cathletrad,  acht  mad  fadba  leoman  letarthach,  -j  tamai»  t?-oma 

1  Eg.  Epurdha  2  E.  chathrach  3  Eg.  haisti  4  Eg.  hóc  e 

5  Eg.  doop         °  Eg.  thogail  Tebhi  '  E.  ach   Eg.  roimluad         8  Eg.  tre 

lffichdoc^ta  9  Eg.  a  laiine  10  Eg.  Ipemedon  n  Eg.  comardaibh 

12  Eg.  uma  13  Eg.  curaidh  14  Eg.  Daneus  15  Eg.  in  dana  derbraithir 
E.  indadanerbrathair  16  Eg.  Daneus  17  Eg.  7  in  coimlin  18  Eg.  Bel 
19  Eg.  sai//  20  Eg.  co  terrngedis...soinemla  21  Eg.  curaidh 

22  Eg.  di  ticfadh  23  Eg.  cosnarnach...cuingedha  24  Eg.  Tirannta...Agellns 
25  Eg.  asa?i  cathraigh  E.  isiw  chathraid  26  Eg.  ger'  uathudh  27  Eg.  roim- 
ohuirit  fagha  28  Eg.  diubrucadh    E.  dibrucun 


THE  THEBAID 

bands  of  the  Epidaurians ;  and  with  him  also  came  good-spirited 
soldiers  of  the  city  of  Dyme,  and  close  well-drilled  bands  of  the 
city  of  Pylos,  whereof  was  Nestor,  son  of  Neleus,  son  of  Poseidon, 
head  of  Greek  wisdom ;  and  he  was  young  then,  yet  though  he 
was  young,  he  refused  to  go  and  sack  Thebes  at  that  time.  But 
Hippomedon  through  the  heroism  of  his  hand  moved  all  the 
people  of  the  city  with  him  unto  the  war.  And  thus  was  Hippo- 
medon with  a  beautiful  brass  helmet  on  his  head  with  three 
equally  lofty  helmet-crests,  so  that  it  was  like  snow  for  its 
exceeding  whiteness  on  his  head,  and  the  whole  body  of  that 
hero  was  girt  with  arms.  For  thus  was  he  with  a  glittering 
flaming  round  shield  upon  him,  with  figures  of  the  children  of 
Danaus  and  of  Belus.  And  thus  were  these  two  brothers  german 
with  an  angry  feud  between  them.  Fifty  daughters  had  Danaus, 
and  Belus  a  number  equal  to  that  of  sons  :  and  Danaus  said  to 
his  daughters :  "  I  shall  give  you  to  the  sons  of  Belus,  and  do 
ye  slay  them  in  the  night."  And  thus  it  was  done  save  by  one 
wife  only,  and  she  did  not  slay  her  husband,  to  wit,  Lynceus. 
And  there  were  figures  of  that  band,  and  in  many  a  setting 
many  other  figures  in  that  shield  depicted  on  it.  And  it  was 
like  as  if  the  woods  were  shaking  and  the  excellent  easily 
traversed  hills  were  humbled  under  the  feet  of  that  hero  as  he 
shook  his  shield  among  the  gatherings  before  delivering  an 
attack.  And  who  is  the  man  who  could  number  those  warlike 
nations,  the  battle-champions,  and  the  many  arms  of  those  high- 
spirited  soldiers  ?  But  further,  three  hundred  young  dexterous 
boys  came  from  Hercules'  city,  to  wit,  Tiryns ;  and  there,  too, 
came  along  with  him  Agylleus,  son  of  Hercules,  from  the  same 
city  along  with  Hippomedon.  And  though  the  inhabitants  of 
that  city  were  fewer,  they  were  taller  and  more  veteran  for  a 
time  of  conflict.  And  no  long  thonged  javelins  for  hurling  were 
carried  by  that  band,  or  steel  swords  for  mangling  in  battle,  but 
only  the  spoils  of  mangling  lions,  and  the  heavy  stems  of  fir 
93 


E.  1 8b  3  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  196b  27 

1475  do   giuis   arna   garbsnoidi1,   -j    saigdi  saineamla  sarechta2   a   IV 
bogadaib  buidi  beandchruaidi.     Concandais  adtnolad    Ercoil 
reompu  isin  sligid  i  sochraide  Ipomedo«.   Et  tangadar  cethirna3  159 
comlaind  a  coilltib  Neim,  -j   munte?'  Molorcits  asna  coilltib 
crsebacha  Cloenda  i  cowiitecht4  in  marcaig  mormenmnaig  si?z 

1 480  Ipomedon. 

Sochraide  Ipomedon  sin5. 

Asa  haithli  sin  roerig  in  fer6  tsend  tarcaisnech  .i.  Capanews, 
-j  conberad  a  ormna  osna  cathaib  ceacAfarda,  -\  rogabastar  a  166 
sciath   mor  mileta  arna  co/ncheangul  do  seichedaib7  ceithri 

1485  tarb  arna  ndeigrindad  do  igmaigib8  nathrach  -j  loiscend 
1  torathar  in  talracm  archeana,  co  n[d]idned  corp9  in  chiirad10 
sin  o  bond  co  bathais ;  7  rogob  a  luirig11  snithi-snadmancfciig 
ndualaich  ndrolmanaig  nachthir12  diamraib  a  etaich,  -j  rogab 
a  cathbarr13  ri»ta  ruithnigthech  imma  ceand  iw14  caithmiled 

1490-]  rogob  a  sleig  cramireamair  comthruim  ina  laim,  na  fedad 
dune  aile  for  talmai/i  do  tocbail  acht  mad  in  ri  calma  cwata 
.i.  Capaneus.    Et  tangadar  i  sochraide  in  rig15  si?i  athtrebaide 
na  cathrach  Ampigánía,  -j  milid  me»mnacha  Mesené,  -\  a[i]rsidi16  178 
irgaili  na  cathrach  Ethoné,  -]  trenfhir17  thaircseanacha  na  cath- 

1495  rach  Tirón,  -j  aireacAia  Ephi,  -j  sluaig  suaichmti  Selos18,  -\  fir 
primda  Piléon,  -j  di-onga  degsluaig  a  Dorión19.  182 

Toicheastol  Capenem's  mic  Tarsis20  conigi  sin. 
Is  andsiii,  immorro,  roerig  in  rigshacart  uasal  .i.  Ampiaraus 
do  thogail  na  Tebi ;    -j  ge21  dachuaid-sium  [and]si?;,  robai  a 

1 500  f his  aicci  gach  olc  darobi  do  fen  de  1   do  chach  archena; 
1  ni  da  deoi?i  dochuaid-sium  and,  acht  tre  aslach  eicni;  uair  190 
rofalaig  Amphiaraus  é  re  hecla  cathaigthi  na  Tebi,  -j  ni  fhiU'r 
duni  cait  i  rroibi  acht  a  ba??chele  uadein.    Et  o  rabas  aca  iaraid,  211 
adubom-t  Eriphile  re  hArgia22 :  "  Tabair-seo23  darasa/'  ar  si24,  "in 

i5o5muwtorc  oir  fil  acwt,  -]  braithfet  dit  mo  chele  i.  Amphiaraus; 

1  Eg.  arna  ngarbsnaidhi  E.  snoigi       2  Eg.  sareacht&ch       3  Eg.  cetharnda 
4  Eg.  eoimetecht  6  Eg.  eonnuigi  sin  G  E.  ninfer  '  E.  seitedaib 

Eg.  seic/iedhaibh  8  Eg.  arna  rindudh  dfhogb-  9  E.  p  above  line 

followed  by  c  with  punctum  del.  10  Eg.  churaidh  n  Eg.  roghabh  luirigh 
12  Eg.  uachter  13  Eg.  cathbarr  M  Eg.  ima  ceend  an  15  Eg.  sochruidi 
in  ri  16  E.  arsigi  1?  Eg.  treinfftir  18  Eg.  Epe... Selós  19  Eg.  droncca 
dei/tsloigk  a  Dhoron  20  Eg.  Tairisis  21  Eg.  gedo  22  Eg.  hAirgia 

E.  hiargia  23  Eg.  tabair-si  24  E.  ar  se...Eg.  oir-si 

94 


THE  THEBAID 

after  a  rough  snedding,  and  excellent  lethal  arrows  from  yellow 
steel-tipped  bows.  They  used  to  sing  together  fche  praise  of 
Hercules  whilst  advancing  on  the  way  as  allies  of  Hippomedon. 
And  bands  for  conflict  came  from  the  woods  of  Nemea,  and  the 
following  of  Molorchus  from  the  branching  woods  of  Cleonae  in 
the  company  of  that  high-spirited  horseman,  Hippomedon. 

The  allies  of  Hippomedon  are  those. 

Thereafter  uprose  the  strong  contemptuous  man,  to  wit, 
Capaneus ;  and  he  used  to  carry  his  shoulders  above  the 
battalions  on  both  sides,  and  he  seized  his  great  warlike  shield 
compacted  together  of  four  bull-hides  and  well  engraved  with 
images  of  serpents,  toads,  and  all  other  monsters  of  the  earth, 
so  that  the  body  of  that  hero  was  protected  from  sole  to  crown ; 
and  he  donned  his  thread-knotted,  plaited,  hooked  corslet  above 
the  under-parts  of  his  raiment,  and  that  battle-soldier  put  his 
engraved  gleaming  helmet  on  his  head,  and  he  took  in  his  hand 
his  thick-shafted  equally  balanced  spear  which  no  other  man  on 
earth  could  lift  save  only  the  brave  heroic  king,  to  wit,  Capaneus. 
And  as  allies  of  that  king  came  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  of 
Amphigenia,  the  spirited  soldiers  of  Messene,  the  war  veterans 
of  the  city  of  Ithome,  the  daring  mighty  men  of  the  city  of 
Thryon,  the  assemblies  of  Aepy,  the  well-known  hosts  of  Helos, 
the  excellent  men  of  Pteleon,  and  troops  of  a  fine  army  from 
Dorion. 

The  muster  of  Capaneus  son  of  Tarsis  thus  far. 

Then,  moreover,  uprose  the  noble  king  and  priest,  to  wit, 
Amphiaraus,  to  the  sack  of  Thebes  ;  and  though  he  went  thither, 
he  knew  every  evil  that  could  thence  arise  to  himself  and  every 
one  else ;  and  not  willingly  did  he  go  thither  but  through 
persuasion  of  necessity ;  for  Amphiaraus  had  hidden  him[self] 
for  dread  of  the  Theban  war,  and  no  human  being  knew  where 
he  was  save  his  own  wife.  And  when  they  were  seeking  him, 
Eriphyle  said  to  Argia :  "  Give  me,"  said  she,  "  the  necklace  of 
gold  which  thou  hast,  and  I  shall  betray  to  thee  my  spouse,  to 
wit,  Amphiaraus ;  for,  he  being  absent,  there  is  no  profit  in  this 
95 


E.  1 8b  42  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i97a  27 

uair  ni  fuil1  tarba  in  tachair-sea  na  Tebi  'na  iúgnais."    Et  o    ^  ' 
'tchualaig  Argia  si»,  roindis  da  fir  .i.  do  Folinices ;  7  adubairt 
Folimces  in  muntorc  [oir  Eg.]  do  thabairt  do  Éripile  ;  7  daradad 
disi  si??,  -J  roiwdis  doib  int  inad  i  rroibi  Ampiaraus,  7  rohaslaiged2 

i5iofaif*  tocht  do  thogail  [na  Eg.]  Teibi,  7  is  tresin  muntorc  Bin 
dorochair3  Ampiaraus  7  a  bean  7  a  mac  iartain4. 

Cid  tra  acht  rohi??dled  a  carbad  do  Ampiarai/s  ar  echaib 
caama  comretha  do  shil   Shillari*s    eich    Chastoir   mic    Ioib;ii5 
7  ro-(p.  19)-gabastar  a  barri??  aloi??d  oengel5  ima  chend  cona 

1 5 1 5  chimsaib  coema  corcarglana  fair,  -j  ua  cWthnaigthech  carbad 
in  c/mrad6  si??  risi??  coill  athger  iarnaidi  d'armaib  saiti 
seasmacha  batar  immi  isin  charbad,  coma  haduath7  faircsena 
re  gach  fiduni  sleg  digaind  derrscaigtheach8  i??d  fir  si??,,  amail 
ralaig  roremair  i  fhaicsi?/9  os  ci??d  a  charpait  in  rig  si??10,  7  a 

i52osciath  rigda  roaíaiwd  i  comfhocus  do.   Et  ba  hiat  cethirna11  in 
churad  sin  docham12  in  chatha  i  tangatar  a  hi?idsib13  Amicclas, 
-j  asna  cathrachaib  .i.  a  Pilos,  7  a  Pharis14,  1  a  Mase ;  7  buidne  223 
tenda  Tageti,  -j   milid  digaire  danarda  srotha  Eorata ;  7   ua  227 
subach  somenmnach15  na  sarsloig  si??  ri  tenta  tachair;  7  ua 

1525  fselid  mna  -j  maithreacha  na  milead  sin  da  marbad16  ac  dena??? 
maithiusa,  7  ar  echaib  concirigtis17  a  catha,  7  da  i'haga  ar 
oensuai??eam18  i  llaim  gach  fhir  dib,  7  ua  nochta19  fonnna  na 
fer  sin,  7  broit  garba  gsesidecha  o  sli??denaib  sis  umpu, 
1  cathbairr  coemegair20  'ma  cendaib  na  c?t?'ad  si??.    Et  da??o 

i53otangadar  la  hAmpiara?ts  airig  7  urrig  a  hElis,  -j  a  Pisa21,  7  o  238 
sruth   Ailfeus;   7    is   dar   in    sruth22   si??    rosnoed   Leander23 
d'  i/idsaige24  a  llean??a[i]n25  .i.  Era,  co  rabaided  é  a?nd[a]  na 
n-aidchi  andsi??  'ca  hi/idsaige26. 

Sochraidi  in  pn'msacairt  Ampiaraws  moir  conigi  si»27. 

*  1  Eg.  ni  bfuil  2  Eg.  rofhaslauyaZ  3  Eg.  dothorc/tair  4  Eg.  bainchele 
jkrtoin  5  Eg.  coimretha...do  barri«...do  loinn  íEiigil  6  Eg.  churaidh 

7  Eg.  adhfhuatb.  8  E.  derrseaitheach  Eg.  dersgnaigtlieach  9  Eg.  a  faicsin 
10  Eg.  uas  a  cinrc  carpaid  in  ri  sin  n  Eg.  cetharnda  J-  E.  in 

churaidh  sin  chum  13  Eg.  i  hinrfsibh  14  Eg.  Pairis  15  Eg.  somenmnacha 
18  Eg.  do  marbad  17  Eg.  concingedis  18  Eg.  tsuainem  19  E.  nothta 
20  Eg.  cathbarra  ceemegair  21  Eg.  Pisa  22  Eg.  taran  sruth 

23  Eg.  rosnoidh  Lainnder  2i  E.  indsaide  2S  E.  llennan...send  na  n- 

26  Eg.  Era  cora  gurbaidhedh  e  annsin  ga  hinnsaigid  san  oidhchi    E.  indsaide 

27  Eg.  sochraidi  A.  in  primsagairt  uasail  conuigi  sin 

96 


THE  THEBAID 

assault  of  Thebes."  And  when  Argia  heard  that,  she  told  her 
husband,  Polynices ;  and  Polynices  said  that  the  gold  necklace 
should  be  given  to  Eriphyle ;  and  it  was  given  to  her,  and  she 
told  them  the  place  in  which  Amphiaraus  was;  and  he  was 
induced  to  go  and  sack  Thebes,  and  through  that  necklace 
Amphiaraus  fell,  and  his  wife,  and  his  son  afterwards. 

Now  Amphiaraus'  chariot  was  yoked  to  beautiful  well-running 
horses  of  the  stock  of  Cyllarus,  the  horse  of  Castor,  son  of  Jove ; 
and  he  placed  on  his  head  his  beautiful  mitre  of  pure  white 
with  its  fair  bright-purple  fringes  upon  it,  and  the  chariot  of 
that  hero  was  quivering  with  the  sharp  iron  forest  of  fixed  up- 
standing arms  that  were  about  him  in  the  chariot,  so  that  with 
every  human  being  it  was  a  horror  to  look  upon  the  ample 
excellent  spear  of  that  man,  like  a  very  stout  stately  oak  to  be 
seen  over  the  chariot  of  that  king,  and  his  royal  very  beautiful 
shield  near  him.  And  these  were  the  bands  of  that  hero  for  the 
war,  for  which  they  came  from  the  isles  of  Amyclae,  and  from 
the  cities,  to  wit,  of  Pylos,  Pharis,  and  Messe  ;  the  strong  troops 
of  Taygetus,  the  vehement  rough  soldiers  of  the  river  Eurotas ; 
and  those  noble  hosts  were  joyous  and  spirited  for  pressing  an 
attack.  And  the  wives  and  mothers  of  those  soldiers  were  glad 
that  they  should  be  killed  in  doing  good.  And  on  horses  they 
used  to  go  to  their  wars  with  two  javelins  in  one  thong  in  the 
hand  of  each  man  of  them,  and  the  shoulders  of  those  men  were 
naked,  with  rough  hairy  mantles  round  them  from  their  shoulder- 
blades  downwards,  and  finely  ornamented  helmets  on  the  heads 
of  those  heroes.  And  also  with  Amphiaraus  came  lieutenants 
and  viceroys  from  Elis,  from  Pisa,  and  from  the  river  Alpheus ; 
and  across  that  river  Leander  used  to  swim  to  his  darling,  Hero, 
so  that  on  one  of  the  nights  he  was  drowned  there,  as  he  went 
to  her. 

The  allies  of  the  chief  priest,  great  Amphiaraus,  thus  far. 
c.  97  7 


E.  19a  28  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i97b  27 

1 535      Asa  haithli  sin  rogresestar1  in  gilla  oc  aededach2,  Pardonopetts,   ^  ' 
ri  na  h Arcaidi  .i.  mac  imuVnech  Meliager,mtc  Oenius[a],a  buidne  248 
beoda  bagacha  a  Parrass  do  togail  [na  Eg.]  Teibi  gan  fhis  da 
mathair ;  -j  rop  aneolach  arm  d'  imluad3  co  hses  na  fuairi4  sin  in 
maccan5  sin.  Acht  chena  rogresestar6  bedga  beodac/iía  e  dockum 

1 540  in  chatha7  sin,  7  is  i  mathair  in  meic  sin  roindarbad  alia  in  tiri 
m  n-enad  selga8,  uair  ni  ua  tualaing  tachair  hi   rena   harr- 
said(ech)t9  in  tan  sin.   Acht  chena  ni  dechaid  do  thogail  Tebi 
nech  uadailli  na  uad  erergnu  i?2a10inri  Pardonopeusn,-]concarad  251 
gach  duni  atchid  e,  -j  ua  hanrata12  aicned  bid  fhir  sin  ger-b 

1545  anarrsaid13  ar  n-ais.     Et  ua  he  mian  in  miled  sin  stuicc14 
chatha  do  chloistecht,  -j  airm  d'  imluad,  -j  catha  do  chommorad ; 
-j  ua  fata  les-[s]eom  go  nfordergad  a  shoigdi  a  curadaib  comithi15, 
1  ua  taitneamach  errid  inn  o[i]g16  sin  d'  or  re  each  isin  tinol  265 
sin.    Uair  is  amlaid  roba-seom  7  lend  coem  corrcorglan  i?nmi 

1 5  50  co  slabradaib  orda  ileccair,  -7  crundsciath  cruaid  cabradacn17 
ara  mum,  7  boga  trentairbertach  ina  llaim  cli  chosnaraaigh18, 
1  saigedbolc  solnsta  do  craicciund  linci  arna  linec?tr19  do  lecaib 
logmara  ar  comair  in  rig  sin.  Conciriged-smn  ara  echaib  (col.  /3) 
srianacha  soerm[ach]a20  sin  inn  uair  sin  ima  n-iaditis21  airechta  275 

1555  agmara  na  hArcaide  coma  suaiti  achaidi22  slebe  Menail  7  fidne- 
mid23  Parteim  da  n-eis;  7  tangadar  dirma24sloig  asnacathrachaib 
.i.  a  Rirpha,  7  a  Strachta,  -j  a  hAnipe,  7  a  Tegea,  7  a  Sillena,  286 
-j  a  nNo^aiccria,  7  a  hAirchimen25,  7  a  hAgros26,  -j  a  Sofid,  -j  a 
hEremai?it,  -j  a  Sterefal.     Et  at  iat  so  srotha  asa  tangadar 

1 560  sochraidi  la  Pardonopews  .i.  Clitón,  1  Pitia27,  -j  Lampia,  -j  Penei,  289 
-j   Ason,  -j   taisich   Parrais  iar  tuaiscert   na    Greci ;   -j    ger-b 
Arceadacda28  uli  in  lucht  sin,  ua  hecsamail29  a  n-air/?i  7  a 
n-erred.     Uair  is  amlaid  rouatar  dream   dona   dirmaib  sin,  300 
7   mirti  mora  ina  lamaib  arna  tarraifig  a  tendtaib  talman, 

1  Eg.  rogresatar  2  Eg.  og  eididec/i  3  imluad?  Eg.  d'imluaidh 

*  Eg.  huaire  5  Eg.  macam  6  Eg.  rogresatar  7  Eg.  dochum 

carthaigthe  na  Tebi  8  Eg.  a  n-i;md  sealcca  9  Eg.  re  h&rrsidheacht 

c 
E.harrsaiget        10  Eg.  ergna  na        u  Eg.  Partadanapeus       12  Eg.  burrunta 
13  E.  anarrsaig        14  Eg.  stuic         15  Eg.  comidbtbi        16  E.  errig...Eg.  oicc 
17  Eg.  c&bradaeh  18  Eg.  cosa»!toigh  19  Eg.  lince  arna  lanecur 

20  Eg.  soermacha     21  Eg.  iagbadis     22  Eg.  acuraidb     23  Eg.  fidbnemegdba  7 
24  Eg.  dirmada  25  Eg.  b Airmen  26  =agros,  the  translator  mistook 

a  n.  common  for  a  n.  proper      27  Apollo       28  Eg.  Airsegda       29  E.  becasmail 

98 


THE  THEBAID 

Thereafter  the  young  death-dealing  boy,  Parthenopaeus,  the 
king  of  Arcadia,  to  wit,  the  darling  son  of  Meleager,  son  of 
Oeneus,  urged  his  lively  warlike  bands  from  Arcadia  to  sack 
Thebes  without  his  mother's  knowledge ;  and  up  to  that  period 
of  time  that  youth  was  ignorant  how  to  handle  arms.  But 
yet  starts  of  liveliness  urged  him  to  that  war ;  and  it  was  the 
mother  of  that  boy  that  was  banished  out  of  the  country  into  a 
hunting  place,  for  she  was  not  able  for  war  owing  to  her  age  at 
that  time.  But  yet  no  one  went  to  sack  Thebes  that  was  more 
beautiful  or  more  wise  than  the  king,  Parthenopaeus,  and  every 
human  being  that  used  to  see  him  used  to  love  him,  and  that 
man's  nature  was  warlike  though  he  was  no  veteran  in  age. 
And  the  wish  of  that  soldier  was  to  hear  battle-trumpets,  to 
handle  arms,  and  to  marshal  battalions ;  and  he  thought  long 
till  he  should  redden  his  arrows  in  hostile  heroes,  and  bright 
with  gold  was  the  attire  of  that  youth  beyond  every  one  in 
that  gathering.  For  thus  was  he  with  a  beautiful  purple  - 
pure  smock  about  him,  and  golden  chains  much  ornamented, 
and  a  hard  bossy  round  shield  on  his  back,  and  a  strongly 
delivering  bow  in  his  valiant  left  hand,  and  his  bright  quiver  of 
lynx-skin  much  adorned  with  precious  stones  for  the  use  of  that 
king.  He  used  to  proceed  at  that  time  on  his  bridled  well- 
coursing  horses,  round  which  gathered  the  warlike  assemblies  of 
Arcadia,  so  that  the  fields  of  mount  Maenalos  and  the  Parthenian 
sacred  groves  were  kneaded  behind  them  ;  and  an  innumerable 
multitude  of  a  host  came  from  the  cities,  to  wit,  from  Rhipe, 
Stratie,  Enispe,  Tegea,  Cyllene,  Nonacris,  Orchomenus,  Agros 
[=  agros],  Psophis,  Erymanthis,  and  Stymphalus  [=  mons].  And 
these  are  the  rivers  from  which  came  allies  with  Parthenopaeus, 
to  wit,  Clitor,  Pythie  [=  Apollo],  Lampia  [=  mons],  Pheneos,  and 
Azan  [=populus],  and  the  chiefs  of  Arcadia  in  the  north  of 
Greece ;  and  though  that  people  were  all  Arcadians,  their  arms 
and  attire  were  diverse.  For  thus  were  some  of  those  troops 
with  great  myrtles  dragged  from  earth's  fastnesses  in  their  hands, 
99  7-2 


E.  i9b  15  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  198«  27 

1565 1   lorga  adbulmora  osegurda1    ac   drem   aili   dib,   [-j    bogada   ^  ' 
bendchae?na  ac  drem  aili  dib  Eg.  om.~\  -j  bera  fata  firgera  d' 
armaib  ac  drem  aile  dib,  -|  cathbairr2  cocuasta  'ma  cendaib.  306 
Et  ger-ua  co?nfhocns  doib  Meiccin  and,  ni  tangadar  sochraidi 
sloig  esti  aroen  risna  rigaib  si/;  dochum  na  Tebi ;  uair  ua  'san 

i57oa[i]msir  sin  dochuaid  Tiest.es,  mac  Pelaip3,  mic  Tan  tail4,  co 
mmnai  nAitir,  rmc  Peloip.  Et  o  'tcualaich  Aitir  sin,  romarb- 
astar  a  dalta  fen  mac  Tiestis,  -j  tuc  do  Tiestis5  arna  bearbad, 
co  rocaith  a  richt  feola;  -j  indister  cor-inta6  grmn  fair  a  rrith7, 
uair  nar-u  ail  le  tuidecht  os  cind  na  cathrach  colaigi  sin  in  la 

1575  sin;  conid  imi8  sin  na  deachaid  sochraidi  sloig  a  Maen9  -\  a 
Meicinib  dochum  na  Tebi,  amai  indister  ar  fingail   claiwdi 
Tantail10.    Et  o  'tchualaig  A  thai  tan  ta,  mathaii  Pardonopem's, 
a  mac  do  thocht  isin  sluagad11  sin,  roerig  amal  tigir  tairptig12  316 
tindesnaig  in  ndeagaid  a  nu'c  da  fhastud,  -j  tucastar  athais 

1580-]  imdercad  ara  mac  -|  ar  lucht  na  hArcaidi  uili  bai  'na  fharrad, 
-j  ni  dernad  ftaVri  sin  acht  mad  taisich13  na  hArcaidi  aca  nertad 
leo  dochum  in  chatha,  -j  ni  etad14  i/f^ingen  alaind  Athalanta15 
delugud  re  [a  Eg.]  mac  ara  inmaine.    Et  robai  aca  aichne16  344 
don  airdrig  d'  Adraist  an  mac  sin  Athalanta  na  banselgaire17 

1585-]  Meliager  ri  cuan[n]a  Calidone. 
Sochraidi  sloig  Arcaidi  andsin. 
Tochastol  na  nGrec  conigi  si?*  dochum  na  Tebe. 
Acht  cheana,  ba  hiad  da  chathraig  cudrmna18  na  nGrec  ar 
chrodac/ii.i.in  Teib  talcharar  imad  a  railed  ac  srainiud19  chatha20 

1 590  -j  chomlaind,  ~\  in  Athai?;  ar  leri  a  hecna  -j  a  heolais. 

Imthusa  immorro  na  Ti[a]uanda21,rogob  ecla  adbulmor  ciniu-  345 
da  cathacha  Cathim  o ' tcualadar  lertinol  na  nGrec  da  n-indsaigi 22. 
Rothochastail  iaruwi  Etiocles  co  hadmall  anindech  na  Tiauanda 
do  chosnztm  a  cathrach  risna23  Grecaib.  Acht  chena  ni  ua  (p.  20) 

1 595  subach  somenmnach  lucht  na  Tebe  re  tindscetal  in  tachair 
sin,  1  ni  roibi  ailgins  cathaigti  ac  duni  do  Tiauandaib  in  tan  356 

1  Eg.  egarclha  2  Eg.  catbbarra  3  Eg.  Pailip  4  Eg.  Tanntail 

5  Eg.  Testis... Testis        6  Eg.  co  rinntogh        7  Eg.  a  rith       8  Eg.  conad  iwe 
9  E.  a  Men  Eg.  a  Nen  10  Eg.  Tanntoil  u  Eg.  asin  sluaigidh 

12  Eg.  tairbhth-  13  Eg.  ui  'na  fharraid...ti(sseeha  14  Eg.  dochum 

catha...nir  féí        15  Eg.  Athalannta        16  Eg.  aithne        17  Eg.  bainsealgaire 
18  Eg.  cutromma...ara  crodacbt  19  Eg.  ic  sroiniudh  20  Eg.  cath 

21  Eg.  Tiabanda  22  Eg.  da  innsaighi  23  Eg.  risna  E.  is  sup.  liiu 

IOO 


THE  THEBAID 

and  others  of  them  had  huge  shepherds'  staves,  others  of  them 
had  beautifully-tipped  bows,  others  of  them  had  long  very  sharp 
spits  as  arms,  and  hollow  helmets  on  their  heads.  And  though 
Mycenae  was  close  to  them  there,  no  allied  host  came  from  it 
along  with  those  kings  unto  Thebes ;  for  it  was  at  that  time 
that  Thyestes,  son  of  Pelops,  son  of  Tantalus,  had  gone  in  to  the 
wife  of  Atreus,  son  of  Pelops.  And  when  Atreus  heard  that,  he 
killed  his  own  fosterling,  the  son  of  Thyestes,  and  gave  him  to 
Thyestes  after  being  boiled,  so  that  he  consumed  him  in  the  form 
of  flesh  ;  and  it  is  told  that  the  sun  turned  upon  its  course,  since 
it  did  not  wish  to  come  over  that  sinful  city  that  day ;  so  that 
on  that  account  no  allied  host  came  from  Maeonia  and  from 
Mycenae  to  Thebes,  as  is  related  of  the  fratricide  of  Tantalus' 
children.  And  when  Atalanta,  mother  of  Parthenopaeus,  heard 
that  her  son  had  gone  in  that  hosting,  she  went  like  a  bold  and 
eager  tiger  after  her  son  to  detain  him,  and  she  heaped  reproach 
and  shame  on  her  son  and  on  all  the  Arcadian  people  who  were 
with  him,  and  she  would  not  have  allowed  herself  to  do  that 
save  that  the  chiefs  of  Arcadia  were  encouraging  him  to  go  with 
them  to  the  war;  and  the  beautiful  girl,  Atalanta,  could  not 
bear  parting  with  her  son  owing  to  his  loveableness.  And  that 
son  of  Atalanta  the  huntress,  and  Meleager  the  handsome  king 
of  Calydon,  she  was  making  known  to  the  high-king  Adrastus. 

The  allies  of  the  host  of  Arcadia  there. 

The  muster  of  the  Greeks  unto  Thebes  thus  far. 

But  further,  these  are  the  two  cities  of  the  Greeks  equal  in 
importance,  to  wit,  stubborn  Thebes  for  the  multitude  of  her 
soldiers  triumphing  in  war  and  conflict,  and  Athens  for  the 
culture  of  her  wisdom  and  knowledge. 

Now,  with  respect  to  the  Thebans,  vast  fear  seized  the  warlike 
nations  of  Cadmus  when  they  heard  of  the  multitudinous  muster 
of  the  Greeks  to  attack  them.  Thereupon  Eteocles  greatly  and 
angrily  mustered  the  Thebans  to  defend  their  city  against  the 
Greeks.  Yet  the  people  of  Thebes  were  not  glad  and  eager  to 
begin  that  contest,  and  not  a  man  of  the  Thebans  had  a  desire 
for  war  at  that  time.     For  the  walls  of  their  city  were  effete 

IOI 


,*M-  >% 


%„*' 


E.  20a  3  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  i98b  29 

sin.    Uair  ua  se/ita  sothoglaidi1  inuir  a  cathrach,  -j  batar  sníma   ^  * 
aile  imda  orro,  do  neoch  ua  m[b]id  a  n-irashnira,  i?ma  cath2  do 
chur.   Et  ge  ead  arabba  sin,  tanic  co??fad  catha  'na  crideadaib3 

tóoona  Tiauanda  do  chosnum  a  ciniuda,  7  ni  do  medugud  airechtais 
in  rig4  Etiocles,  air  ua  miscais  leo  uile  e  in  fer  na  tocla5  .i.  360 
YoMnices.    Et  ua  he  samail  Ethiocles,  mar  bis  feel  craesach 
confadach  iter  ceithrib6  arna  co?«ach.    Anddar  les  ar  teiched  363 
conlenfaitis  oegaireada7  na  tret  trenmarbtha  sin  e  uaden. 

1605      Et  ua  tuillead  re  hadfuath  dona  Tiauandaib  in  clu  digair 
dianscelach  ac  scailiud  seel  na  nGrec8  doib;  uair  roindisfead9 
fear  and  marcsluag  gasraidi10  Grec  do  rochtai»  co  bruach  srotha  370 
Asopis,   no   co   sliab   soimtheachta    Citeron,   no   co   tolchaib 
tondglasa   Temeson   i   comfhocus    na    Tebi.     Et    rolinsadar 

ióioderbairrdeada  duaibsecha  dirimi  in  t&hnain  uili  confaictis- 
[sjium11  na  srotha  nasruthanaib  fala  tre  thaidbsib  n-aislingthi12, 
1  conlobraidis13  torathair  balba  bruididi  ac  tairgi14  trenuile  do 
Thiauandaib  as  each  aird,  -]  adclos15  daibsium  tre  thaidbsi[b] 
bansacart  digair16  dasachtach17  do  muntz'r  Baich,  do  dei18  in 

i6i5fhiwa,  ac  faisti??e  sechnon  na  cathrach,  co  n-ebairt :  "Is  ole  400 
a  n[d]enai19,  a  Baich,"  ar  si,  "na  heicne-sea  do  lecun20  arna 
Tiabandaib.    Et  adchiu-sa  da  tharb  trena  tnuacha21  conci»det 
oencenel  -]  oenatharda  ac  tachar,  -|  each  dib  ac  marbad  a  celi 
.i.  Ethiocles,"  ar  si,  "is  ole  a  n[d]enai22  tachar  'man  ni  nach 

i62oduthchu  dit  na  dot23  brathair  .i.  do  Toiinices."  Et  robai  'na 
tast  asa  haithli  sin. 

Acht  cheana  rasir  Ethioc/es  celcgach  cWthnaigthech  faistine 
do  denam  do  arin  fisid,  -j  is  airi  rofurail  air  cunnail  cianaesta  e  4°8 
.i.  ar  Tiresias ;  1  ge  mmad  dall  in  drui  sin,  ua  deigfhisid,  -j  is 

1625  airi  rodallad  in  duini  sin :  hiiadna,  robai-sium  'na  mnai  tre 
mirbail  na  ndéi,  co  tarla  imresai/i  iter  Ioib  -j  Iunai??d,  bandei 
na  toili  collaidi24,  ingen  do  Saturn,  inn  Iunai/?d  [sin  Eg.]  csem 
cumachtach,  co  n-ebairt  Ioib  comma  mo  ailgiws  sarthoili  na 

1  E.  sothoglaigi         2  Eg.  in  imsnim  in  cath         3  Eg.  7  cidh  edh  araba...a 
cridedaib  *  Eg.  ri  6  Eg.  uile  imun  fer  ina  tocla  6  Eg.  cethraib 

7  E.  oegaireaga  Eg.  aedhgairedha  8  Eg.  seel  doib  o  Grecaib  9  Eg.  roinnised 
10  E.  gasraigi  n  Eg.  confaicid-sium  12  Eg.  naislinge  13  Eg.  conlabradis 
14  Eg.  tairngire  15  Eg.  atclos  16  Eg.  «digair  17  Eg.  ndasachtach 

18  Eg.  baith  dei  19  Eg.  ane«aidh  20  Eg.  lige/i  2L  Eg.  tnuthcha 

22  Eg.  uanni  23  Eg.  na  do  do  24  E.  deigfhisig...collaigi 

I02 


THE  THEBAID 

and  easily  stormed  and  many  cares  rested  on  them,  from  what- 
soever their  anxiety  used  to  arise,  other  than  waging  war.  And 
yet  for  all  that  a  rage  of  battle  came  into  the  hearts  of  the 
Thebans  to  defend  their  nation,  and  not  to  extend  the  sovereignty 
of  the  king  Eteocles ;  for  they  all  hated  the  besieger,  to  wit, 
Polynices.  And  this  was  the  appearance  of  Eteocles,  like  as  a 
wide-mawed  raging  wolf  is  among  cattle  after  utterly  breaking 
them.  He  bethinks  him  in  flight  that  the  shepherds  of  that 
flock,  starkly  slain,  woro  following  himself. 

And  an  addition  to  the  horror  of  the  Thebans  was  the  zealous 
keen  tale-bearing  rumour,  scattering  tales  of  the  Greeks  among 
them ;  for  one  there  would  say  that  cavalry  of  a  picked  body  of 
Greeks  had  arrived  at  the  bank  of  the  river  Asopis,  or  at  easily 
passed  mount  Cithaeron,  or  at  the  green-clad  knolls  of  Teumesus, 
near  Thebes.  And  innumerable  gloomy  portents  filled  the  whole 
earth,  so  that  they  saw  the  rivers  as  rivers  of  blood  through 
phantasms  of  dreams,  and  dumb  brute  monsters  used  to  speak 
working  strong  ill  to  Thebans  from  every  quarter,  and  through 
phantasms  was  heard  by  them  a  zealous  mad  priestess  of  the 
people  of  Bacchus,  the  god  of  wine,  prophesying  throughout  the 
city,  and  she  said :  "  Thou  doest  ill,  0  Bacchus,  to  let  these 
distresses  fall  upon  the  Thebans.  And  I  see  two  strong  envious 
bulls,  who  acknowledge  one  race  and  one  fatherland,  in  conflict, 
and  each  of  them  slaying  his  fellow.  To  wit,  Eteocles,"  said  she, 
"thou  doest  evil  to  fight  about  a  thing  that  is  no  more  hereditary 
to  thee  than  to  thy  brother,  to  wit,  Polynices."  And  she  was 
silent  thereafter. 

But  the  guileful  quivering  Eteocles  asked  of  the  seer  that  a 
prophecy  should  be  made  for  him,  and  on  one  discreet  and  long- 
lived  he  enjoined  it,  to  wit,  Tiresias.  And  though  that  wizard 
was  blind,  he  was  a  good  seer,  and  for  this  reason  was  that  man 
blinded :  for  a  year  he  had  been  a  woman  through  a  miracle  of 
the  gods,  until  a  quarrel  occurred  between  Jove  and  Juno,  the 
goddess  of  carnal  love,  daughter  of  Saturn,  that  beauteous 
mighty  Juno ;  and  Jove  said  that  the  desire  of  the  master 
103 


•     E.  20a  44  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  199*  31 

mm[b]an  na  na  fer1.    Adrubairt,  immorro,  Iunaind  roppa  brec2;   f®  ' 

1630 -]  roaentaigset  ua  oenfhiadairc.  .i.  T[i]ressias,  uair  robai-sium  sel 
'na  mnai  -7  sel  'na  fhir  -]  adrubairt  rabba  mo  ailgms  na  ramban 
na  ailgiws  na  fer.  Et  ua  fergach  ri  hlunai»d  sin,  -\  robean  a 
shuili  uada-siim,  *]  tucastar  Ioib  fis  faistine  áosum  'na  aigid 
sin.     Nocho  tre  énaib  na  tre  idba?'taib  ar  altoir  donid  in  fer 

1635  sin  faistine,  acht  (col.  /3)  tre  tuduscad3  anraand  a  hifren,  uair  413 
is  mo  rocreitea  doib. 

Et  roerig  Tiresias  -j  a  ingen  Manto  -j  EthiocZes  aroen  ris,  463 
1  tangadar  isin  fidnemed  fasaig4  ua  comnesa  doib,  -j  iwiun 
fidnemid4  sin  robai  in  mag  ar-silastair  Cathim,  mac  Agenoir, 

i64ofiacla  na  nathrach  feacht  riam  roimi;   -j    conteichit   duine5 
1  indili  tresin  seiselbi  ndemnaig  n-adfuathmair  bis  fos  isan 
mat  sin.    Et  daroindi  Tiresias  ix  clascha  condeathna  andsi»,  445 
-j  rolinaid  leis  iad  do  chserchaib  duba  dathchse?na  in  n-onoir 
na  ndei  n-ifvennaide6.    Et  ua  hole  re  lucht  in  tiri  a  met  da^ 

i645vchaithead  da  ceithrib  risna  hidbartaib  sin.  Et  rodoirtestar 
T[i]resias  fleda  fina  arna  clasachaib  comlinta7  sin,  -j  robai 
ac  eadarguidi  na  ndei  n-ifrennaidi  n-aduathmar  .i.  Oirc, 
-]  Proserpiana  a  banchele  ind  fhir  sin,  -\  Tresifoné  aslaicthech 
uruada,    *j    Caroin   co[m]thnuthach8   portimmarchoirthid9   na 

i65on-anmanda10  dar  sruth  Stig11,  co  tudnsctis  anma/ma  do 
Tiresias  d'  i??.disi12  firi/idi  do.  Et  rogob  aduath  adbol  Ethiocles 
ri  dasacht  Tiresias  ac  iarraid  a  itgi  ar  munU'r  ndemnaig 
n-ifrind.  Et  o  raairig  Tirisias  sin,  rofergaiged13  é  re  muntir 
n-ifri/?d14  ara  fhat  leis  robai  gan  nech  da  chur  da15  i/idsaigid 

1655  a  hifrind.  Et  rolabair  in  banshacart  a  ingen  .i.  Manto :  "  Ac  so 
chuewt,"  ar  si,  "  anoisi  airechta  adbana  esfhuiligi  d'  anmandaib 
i  comfhocos  duit  a  hifrená,  -\  rohoslaicit  clusala16  aduamara 
ifriiid  anosa,  -\  adchi/?z-sea  sosta  sirdorcha16  -\  aitdeda17  anaibne 
ichtir  ifri/id;  -j  adchim18,"  ar  si19,  "srotha  suaibrenacha  sruth- 

i66oglasa  ifirnd20  .i.  Achero?i  1  Flegedon  -]  Stix;  -j  adchiu-sa  da;?o 
Pluto»  1  Prosserpina  -]  breitheamain  ecerta21  ifirnd  .i.  Minos 
1  Eg.  na  mban  na  nafer         2  Eg.  adubairt...robo  breg        3  Eg.  thodhusead 
4-4  Eg.  om.... a  roui  5  Eg.  daine  6  Eg.  n-ifrmda  7  Eg.  coinilinta 

8  Eg.  cowtnut/iac/i     9  Eg.  portimarchairtidn      10  E.  aniíHanda      n  Eg.  Stix 
12  Eg.  toduscadis...d'  in?ísi/t  13  E.  rofergaided  "  Eg.  n-ifernaidhi 

16  Eg.  da  n-  16  E.  da  Eg.  duit...rofosluicet  clusaía  ltí~16  Eg.  am. 

17  Eg.  aigeda     18  Eg.  atchim-si      19  E.  ar  se     20  E.  iftrnd     21  Eg.  egaracha 

IO4 


THE  THEBAID 

passion  of  women  was  greater  than  that  of  men.  Juno,  however, 
said  it  was  false ;  and  they  submitted  it  to  one  witness,  to  wit, 
to  Tiresias;  for  he  had  been  for  a  while  a  woman  and  for  a 
while  a  man ;  and  he  said  that  the  women's  desire  was  greater 
than  the  men's.  And  that  was  provoking  to  Juno,  and  she 
plucked  out  his  eyes,  and  Jove  gave  him  prophetic  vision  in 
lieu  thereof.  Not  by  birds  or  by  offerings  on  an  altar  was  that 
man  wont  to  make  prophecy,  but  by  raising  souls  from  Hades, 
since  they  could  be  more  relied  upon. 

And  Tiresias  arose,  and  his  daughter  Manto,  and  Eteocles  along 
with  him,  and  they  went  into  the  luxuriant  sacred  grove  that 
was  nearest  them ;  and  round  that  sacred  grove  lay  the  plain  in 
which  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor,  had  sown  the  serpent's  teeth  at 
a  former  time ;  and  man  and  cattle  flee  owing  to  the  devilish 
horrible  tumult  that  still  exists  in  that  place.  And  Tiresias 
made  nine  trenches  equally  broad  there,  and  they  were  filled  by 
him  with  black  beautifully  coloured  sheep  in  honour  of  the  gods 
of  Hades.  And  the  people  of  the  country  took  it  ill  that  so 
many  sheep  were  wasted  with  those  sacrifices.  And  Tiresias 
poured  oblations  of  wine  upon  those  equally  filled  trenches,  and 
he  was  beseeching  the  awful  gods  of  Hades,  to  wit,  Orcus,  and 
Proserpina  that  man's  wife,  and  tempting  baleful  Tesiphone, 
and  very  fierce  Charon,  the  ferryman  of  souls  over  the  river 
Styx,  that  they  should  raise  souls  for  Tiresias  to  tell  him  sooth. 
And  vast  horror  seized  Eteocles  at  Tiresias'  madness  in  asking 
his  request  of  the  devilish  people  of  Hades.  And  when  Tiresias 
perceived  that,  he  became  wroth  with  the  people  of  Hades  at 
the  length  of  time,  he  thought,  had  elapsed  without  anyone 
being  sent  to  him  from  Hades.  And  the  priestess  his  daughter, 
to  wit,  Manto,  spoke  :  "  Here  thou  hast,  now,"  said  she,  "  pallid 
bloodless  assemblies  of  souls  close  to  thee  from  Hades,  and 
Hades'  dreadful  prisons  have  now  been  opened,  and  I  see  pro- 
foundest  Hades'  ever  dark  abodes  and  joyless  places ;  and  I  see," 
said  she,  "  Hades'  fetid  green-flowing  streams,  to  wit,  Acheron, 
Phlegethon,  and  Styx;  and  I  see,  too,  Pluto,  Proserpina,  and 
Hades'  unjust  judges,  to  wit,  Minos,  Aeacus,  and  Rhadamanthus, 
105 


E.  20b  35  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  200*  5 

1  Eacws1  -j  Rodomantws,  tri  im'c  Joib.    Et  is  amlaid  coberaid2   ^  ' 
bretha  .i.  cilarnd3  comthromais  acco,  -j  lecana  fi«na  and  -j  lecan[a] 
duba.   i?£  intan  ticed  in  lecan  find  anms4  ar  bus,  ua  fir  in 

1665  fuigell;  -j  intan  ticed  in  lecan  dub  annis5,  ua  hanfhir  in  breth. 
Et  is  lor  i»dhisi»i,"  ar  si6  Manto,  "do  thoratharaibh 7  ifir/i  536 
dit8."   "  Is  leor,  immorro,  a  ingen,"  ar  se9  Tiresias,  "  uair  cia 
nach  fik'r  in  nan  ata  arin  coraid10  ar  Sissiphtts,  cloch11  mulmd 
do  chur  ana  agaid  shlebe,  -]  a  toitim  ina  chend  doi'isi ;  Tisnts12 

1670  coraid  rotriall  eicci??  for  raathair  Apaill  .i.  ar  Látona,  is  i  a  pian 
a  n-ifir»,  sebac  aca  crem  a  cridi,  1  a  chridi  ac  forbairt  and.  Gair 
chucai?id,  a  ingen,"  ar  se,  "  na  hanmanda  Grecda  -]  Tiauanda 
fuil[et]  and,  7  indis  dam  a  ndelb  -j  a  ndenam,  1  cuich  as  neasa 
dib  [dam13  Eg.]."    "  Atat  and,"  ar  si14,  "  Cathim,  mac  Agenoir, 

16751  Ermione  a  banchele,  1  ceit[h]ri  hingina  Caithim  .i.  Semile 
1  Autonoe  1  I/?no15,  (p.  21)  1  Agabe  cona  clandaib;  1  atcim," 
ar  si,  "  mairb  truaga  na  Tiauanda  andso,  1  na  nGrec  archena." 

Et  o  darat  Manto  test16 1  tuariscbail  na  n-anmand  leith  ar  579 
leth,  roerig  Tireisias  1  rochraith  a  chend,  1  nir-gab  lorg  'na 

1680  laim  ger-bo  seanoir  [e  Eg.].  "Bi  [it]  tast17,  a  ingen,"  ar  se. 
"  Dauiccim-sea18  i/mi  bias  do  Grecaib  1  do  Tiauandaib  uair 
de  sin,  1  bid  mesa  do  Grecaib,"  ar  sa,  "  in  tachar-sa  na  do 
Tiauandaib ;  uair  is  toirrsech,"  ar  se,  "  a  fuil  do  rigaib  Grec 
a  n-iúrnd  ac  tairrfigiri  thoirrsech  da  fuil  beo  dib."    Et  as  iat 

1685  so  na  riga19  ua  toirrsech  inn  ifir«c?  in  tan  sin  .i.  Appas  garb 
gruganach,  1  Foranews  cendais  cumachtach,  1  Pelops  crechtach 
cendtescta,  1  Oenamaus  feochair  fir[fh]eargach,  1  Yrotus  occal 
eccendais ;  1  is  do-side  ro[ba]  bancheli  Stenobe  darad20  gmd  da 
lesmac.i.do  Belorofons21.  Et  o roemid22  in gilla comriachtam ria, 

1690  rochosait-si  re  athair  e23, 1  adubairt  eiccen24  do  thobairt  fuirri ;  1 
rofergaiged25  Frotus  re  Pellorofons  cor-cuir  e26  d'  indsaigid  athar 
Stenobe.    Et  robai  torathar  aicci-side  .i.  Cimera27.    Et  rocuired 

1  Eg.  Misios  7  Echus        2  Eg.  conberuit         3  Eg.  ciulurnn         4  Eg.  an/i 
6  Eg.  ann  6  Eg.  a  innisiwt  ar  sa  '  Eg.  thorathraib  8  Eg.  deit 

9  Eg.  arsa  10  Eg.  ar  coraid  u  Eg.  i.  cloch  12  Eg.  dorisidhi 

E.  Ulfl  ;  Eg.  Tisius      13  Eg.  dam  ata       "  E.  se       15  Eg.  Uatonaé  7  In/mo 
16  Eg.  teist         17  Eg.  atost  18  Eg.  dotuicimsi  1U  Eg.  bfuil...righdha 

20  Eg.  gruagach...dosiden...Senobedorat        2i  Eg.  Pelarafons        22  E.roemig 
23  Eg.  hathair  é         24  Eg.  hecen  25  E.  rofergaided        26  Eg.  Pellarafons 

curorochuir  -7  Eg.  Cimeria 

IO6 


THE  THEBAID 

three  sons  of  Jove.  And  thus  they  pass  judgments,  to  wit,  they 
have  an  urn  of  justice  with  white  stones  and  black  stones  therein. 
And  when  the  white  stone  used  to  come  up  first,  the  decision 
was  true;  but  when  the  black  stone  used  to  come  up,  the 
judgment  was  untrue.  But  enough  do  I  relate  to  thee,"  said 
Manto,  "  of  the  monsters  of  Hades."  "  Enough  indeed,  O 
daughter,"  said  Tiresias,  "  for  who  does  not  know  the  punish- 
ment which  the  hero,  Sisyphus,  undergoes  ?  that  a  millstone  is 
rolled  up  a  hill  and  that  it  falls  down  again ;  Tityos,  a  hero  who 
offered  violence  to  Apollo's  mother,  to  wit,  Latona,  this  is  his 
punishment  in  Hades  that  a  hawk  is  devouring  his  heart,  and 
his  heart  continues  growing  there.  Call  unto  us,  0  daughter," 
said  he,  "  the  souls  of  the  Greeks  and  of  the  Thebans  that  are 
there,  and  tell  me  their  form  and  shape,  and  which  of  them  is 
nearest  me."  "  There  are,"  said  she,  "  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor, 
and  Hermione  his  spouse,  and  Cadmus'  four  daughters,  to  wit, 
Semele,  Autonoe,  Ino,  and  Agave  and  their  children ;  and  I  see 
here,"  said  she,  "  the  unhappy  dead  of  the  Thebans  and  of  all 
the  Greeks." 

And  when  Manto  had  given  the  reputation  and  description  of 
the  souls  side  by  side,  Tiresias  arose  and  shook  his  head,  and  he 
took  no  staff  in  his  hand,  though  he  was  an  old  man.  "  Be 
silent,  O  daughter,"  said  he ;  "  I  understand  what  will  result  to 
Greeks  and  Thebans  some  time  therefrom,  and  this  contest  will 
be  worse  for  Greeks,"  said  he,  "  than  for  Thebans ;  for  sad,"  said 
he,  "  are  those  of  the  Greek  kings  that  are  in  Hades,  as  a  sad 
presage  to  those  of  them  that  are  alive."  And  these  are  the 
kings  that  were  sad  in  Hades  at  that  time,  to  wit,  rough  wrinkled 
Abas,  mild  mighty  Phoroneus,  wounded  truncated  Pelops,  fierce 
very  angry  Oenomaus,  and  bold  ungentle  Proetus  ;  and  his  wife 
was  Sthenoboea  who  made  love  to  her  stepson,  to  wit,  Bellero- 
phon.  And  when  the  youth  refused  to  approach  her,  she  accused 
him  to  his  father  and  said  that  violence  had  been  done  her ;  and 
Proetus  was  wroth  wTith  Bellerophon,  and  sent  him  to  Stheno- 
boea's  father.  And  he  had  a  monster,  to  wit,  Chimaera.  And 
107 


E.  21a  22  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  200b  l2 

Bellorofons  ari/m  eoch  ar  Pegais  d'ffhjagfbjail1  a  oigeda  docum   IV  ' 
Chimera.   Et  adrochair  in  torathar  si»  les-[s]ium.  Raheaschrad 
1695  e  da  eoch  fen,  -j  adbath. 

Atchondairc  Tiresias  in  csecaid2  cwrad  romarb  Tid  do  Tiau- 
andaib;  -j  atchondairc-siura  Laiws  mor,  athair3  Eidip,  iter  na 
hanmandaib ;  -\  robai  ac  iarraid  faisti/ie  fair  do  denam  d'  auib4 
.i.  do  EithocZes,  do  rig  na  Tebi,  -j  do  Polinices,  mac  Edip.  Et  625 
1 700  rolauair  Laiiis :  "  Cid  'ma  n-iarthai  ormsa,"  a  Tiresias,  "  faistine 
do  denum  do  lucht  na  Tebi  ?  uair  is  adbul  d'  ulc  doronsad 
rimsa.  Et  gid  ed,"  ar  se,  "  iwdesait5  daibsi  a  n-acuala  o  deib 
iffri?id  ma-dala  na  Tiauanda.  Is6  cinti  bra,"  ar  se,  "  cowcingit 
laich  luthmara  Lerna  .i.  na  G?*ecci7  dirma8  diairmidi  do  chathaib  637 
i7o5commora  do  thogail  Tebi.  Et  is9  ci??ti  coscor  ac  Tiauandaib  641 
do  thurus  gasraide  Grec  do  gairi[ug]ud10  na  Tebi,  -]  ni  lecfet 
Tiauanda  dona  Grecaib  aitt  na  hinad  do  loscad  na  d'  adlacad11 
do  neoch  mar&fer12  dib  i  tir  na  Tebi.  Et  na  bid  a  ecla13  ortsu," 
ar  se  Laiws14,  "  a  Ethiocles,  rigi  do  gobail  dat  brathair  do 
\j\oVo\inices,  uair  gid  feochair  fuabartach  in  fer  ún,  noch[a]  ua 
ri  arm  Teib  co  brath."  Et  o  ralabair15  L&ius  sin  atrochair16  in 
n-[i]firmd,  -]  rofhac  co  cwmascda  cundtabartach17  scela  na  nGrec 
da  eis. 

Imtitsa  immorro  na  nGrec  dobe?'ar  os  aird  andso.   Tangadar  646 
17 1 5  reo?/ipo18  co  coilltib  nuaglasa  Ném,  -j  ua  dirim19  difhoillsigwcZ20 
in  deagsluaig  si?i  im  trascrad  -]  im  thogail  Tebi  leo.    Baich  652 
immorro  (col.  /8)  dei  inn  fhina21  rotinoil  sideic  na  ciniuda 
gamschedacha22  Geittecda  o  sleb  Eim23,  -\  o  sliab  Otn's,  -\  o  sleb 
Rodoip  dochum  na  Tebi  da  forithin24 ;  uair  ropf  Semile,  ingen  ucf>  c 
1720  rig  na  Tebi  .i.  Chathim,  nnc  Agenoir,  mathair  Baich.    Uair 
intan  roloisced  Semile  ac  comriachtai?i  do  Ioib  ria  i  rricht 
teined,  rothairring  Ioib  Baich  asa  broi»d  ar  tesbaid25  mis  da 
hinbaid26,  *j  rohailestar  Ioib  Baich  a  mbun  a  sliasta  co  cend  mis, 

1  Eg.  Pegius  dfagbniZ  2  Eg.  I.  at  3  Eg.  athair  at  end  of  line,  mac  at 
beginning  of  next  4  Eg.  daunb  5  Eg.  innesat  6  Eg.  As  7  Eg.  Grecaibh 
8  Eg.  dirirne  9  Eg.  Ocus  is  10  Eg.  do  egaimgud  u  Eg.  d'anacuZ 

12  Eg.  muirbhihithiT  ]3  Eg.  na  bid  hecla  14  Eg.  ar  Laius 

15  Eg.  dolauair  16  Eg.  atorcair  a  n-irn  17  Eg.  cunctabartach 

E.  cundtabartacha        18  Eg.  rompud        19  Eg.  dirme         20  E.  difhoillsigud 
21  E.  infia  22  Eg.  gai/Hsce^ch  23  Eg.  Ein  24  Eg.  foiridhthin 

25  Eg.  ar  testail  26  Eg.  da  inmaidh 

IO8 


THE  THEBAID 

Bellerophon,  mounted  on  the  horse  Pegasus,  was  sent  unto 
Chimaera  to  meet  his  doom.  And  that  monster  fell  by  him.  He 
was  thrown  from  his  own  horse,  and  died. 

Tiresias  saw  the  fifty  heroes  which  Tydeus  had  killed  of  the 
Thebans ;  and  he  saw  great  Laius,  father  of  Oedipus,  among  the 
souls;  and  he  was  asking  of  him  to  make  a  prophecy  to  his 
grandsons,  to  wit,  Eteocles  king  of  Thebes,  and  Polynices  son  of 
Oedipus.  And  Laius  said  :  "  Wherefore  shouldest  thou  ask  of  me, 
O  Tiresias,  to  make  a  prophecy  to  the  people  of  Thebes  ?  since 
it  is  a  vastness  of  evil  they  have  done  me.  And  yet,"  said  he, 
"  I  shall  relate  to  you  what  I  have  heard  from  the  gods  of  Hades 
regarding  the  Thebans.  Now  it  is  a  certainty,"  said  he,  "  that 
the  vigorous  heroes  of  Lerna,  to  wit,  of  Greece,  march  with  an 
innumerable  multitude  of  exceeding  great  battalions  to  sack 
Thebes.  And  victory  is  a  certainty  to  Thebans  over  the  expedi- 
tion of  a  picked  body  of  Greeks  to  approach  Thebes,  seeing  the 
Thebans  will  not  allow  the  Greeks  place  or  position  to  burn  or 
bury  whosoever  of  them  will  be  slain  in  the  land  of  Thebes. 
But  be  not  thou  afraid,  O  Eteocles,"  said  Laius,  "  of  the  kingdom 
being  seized  by  thy  brother  Polynices,  for  though  that  man  be 
fierce  and  aggressive,  he  will  never  be  king  of  Thebes."  And 
when  Laius  had  said  that,  he  fell  into  Hades,  and  he  left  in 
confused  and  dubious  fashion  tales  of  the  Greeks  behind  him. 

Now  the  wanderings  of  the  Greeks  are  given  plainly  here. 
They  advanced  to  the  fresh  green  woods  of  Nemea,  and  an 
unspeakable  thing  was  the  ardour  of  that  goodly  army  about 
the  complete  overthrow  and  demolition  of  Thebes  by  them. 
Bacchus,  however,  the  god  of  wine,  assembled  the  winter-coloured 
races  of  the  Getae  from  mount  Haemus,  and  from  mount  Othrys, 
and  from  mount  Rhodope  unto  Thebes  to  succour  it ;  for  Semele, 
daughter  of  the  king  of  Thebes,  to  wit,  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor, 
was  mother  of  Bacchus.  For  when  Semele  was  burnt  while 
Jove  was  approaching  her  in  the  form  of  fire,  Jove  drew  Bacchus 
out  of  her  womb  owing  to  a  month  being  wanting  of  her  period, 
and  Jove  reared  Bacchus  at  the  base  of  his  thigh  for  a  month, 
109 


E.  2 ib  io  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  201a  15 

1  tuc  do  lucht  na  Tebi  da  haltrom  ar  sin  é\  co/iid2  imi  sin    ^  ' 

i725robai  Baich  ac  fortacht  na  Tebi.     Et3  is  amlaid  robai-sium 
isna  longportaib  sotla  somescda  sin  -\  nathracha  nemnecha  ac 
imarchur  carpait  Baith.     Et  ua  curata4  lucht  carpait  Baich 
-]  at  e5  andso  a  n-anmand  .i.  Nert  -\  Fuasnad,  Ferg6  -]  Faitciws.  661 
Et  o  'tchondairc  Baich  na  cloichtigi7  cumascda  ciach  -\  na664 

i73oneoill  landorcha  luaitherda  re  trethan  int  [s]luaig  os  choilltib 
croebglasa8  Nem,  -j  dellrad  na  n-arm  sliptha9  sleamangorm  ri 
ruithnib  na  greni  glanshoillsi,  ua  socht  mor  leosum  gan10  tendad 
a  tinoil11  tachair  i  n-agaid  Grecach,  -j  adubairt  Baich  re  [a  Eg.] 
muntir :  "  Bid  bar  tast12,  a  oco,"  ar  se13,  "  -j  caiscid  bar  seiselbi. 

1735  Rocindsead  na  Gm'c,"  ar  se,  "  dianscailiud  na  Tebi  iumum-sa," 
ar  se14,  "  -]  is  i  mo  lesmathair-sea  Iunaind  chomoras  na  catha 
siu15  chucumsa.    Et  darigne  ulcu  aili  rim  remi  .i.  mo  mathair 
Simile  do  loscud ;  1  ata  anosa  ac  techt16  co  Teib  da  milliud.  677 
Dobersa  [immorro,"  ar  se,  "  indnell  Eg.  om.]  furig11  ecin  arna 

i74oslogaib."    Et  ta?;ic-sium  remi  co  dian  tindeasnach13  arin  mag  680 
ira  n-agaid  int  [s]loig,  -j  ua  medon  don  lo  ind  n-uair  sin19,  -j  ua 
tend  tesbach  in  tal6w«*ri  taidlanig20  na  greni  andsiw.    Ragairit  683 
dei  1  bandéi  na  n-es  -|  na  n-abancZ  cuicci,  -\  adubairt  riu : 
"Tabraid,"  ar  se,  "fial  falaig  dar  inbearaib  uisgm  na  Greci21687 

1745  uili,  coma  lathraide  lantirma  a  n-inada  da  n-eis,  -\  dichlid22 
uisqui  chollti  Nem  ar  tus,  -j  dobersa  a  chomai^  chomadais23 
daibsi  aris,"  ar  se.  Et  ni  luaithi  adrubairt-simn,  sin  na 
ratirmaigit24  lacha  -j  luathaibne,  tobair  -j  tmlaigi  in  tiri, 
coma  cseiti25  conairi  inada  na  n-uisced-sa26  .i.  Lerna  -|  Larceus,  711 

i75oInacws  *j   Caradrtts,  Erasinws  -]   Asterion.    Acht  chena  robai 
oensruth    ua   clithirdiamruib    na  coilliudh   gan  a  uisqui  do  724 
tragad27  .i.  Laúgia  [a  ainm  Eg.],  -7  ua  huathad  eolaig28  i?m 
icsci  sin.  73° 

1  E.  arsin  i  2  Eg.  conad  3  Eg.  Ocus  4  E.  curita   Eg.  curata 

8  Eg.  7  conat  e  6  Eg.  7  Fercc  7  Eg.  cloieh-  8  Eg.  niamglasa 

9  Eg.  dellrad... slibtha  10  Eg.  leisim  can  u  Eg.  in  tiwoil  12  Eg.  tocht 
13  Eg.  ócca  uar  si  E.  si  14  E.  ar  si  15  Eg.  lesmathair-si...Eg.  catha-sa 
16  Eg.  a  techt  17  Eg.  furrigh  18  Eg.  dian  dasac/ííach 
19  Eg.  don  lo  in  tan  sin  20  Eg.  taighlenaig  21  Eg.  na  nGrec 
22  Eg.  dithl-  23  Eg.  a  cumain  comadhuis  24  E.  tirmaidit  Eg.  rotirmer 
locha  25  Eg.  ceiti  20  Eg.  uscedha-sa  27  E.  tradad 
28  Eg.  eolach 

I  IO 


THE  THEBAID 

and  thereafter  gave  him  to  the  people  of  Thebes  to  rear,  so 
that  for  that  reason  Bacchus  was  succouring  Thebes.  And  thus 
was  he  in  those  haughty  intoxicated  camps  with  venomous 
serpents  drawing  Bacchus'  chariot.  And  heroic  were  the  folk  of 
Bacchus'  chariot,  and  these  are  their  names,  to  wit,  Strength 
and  Tumult,  Anger  and  Fear.  And  when  Bacchus  saw  the  con- 
fused towers  of  mist  and  the  full-dark  dusty  clouds  because  of 
the  stormy  sea  of  that  host  above  the  green-branched  woods  of 
Nemea,  and  the  gleaming  of  the  polished  smooth  blue  arms 
from  the  rays  of  the  brightly  shining  sun,  there  was  a  great 
silence  with  them  with  no  pressing  on  of  their  massed  attack  upon 
the  Greeks ;  and  Bacchus  said  to  his  following :  "  Be  ye  silent, 
O  youths,"  said  he,  "  and  check  your  tumults.  The  Greeks  have 
resolved,"  said  he,  "  to  wrest  Thebes  from  me,"  said  he  ;  "  and  it 
is  my  stepmother  Juno  who  arrays  those  battalions  against  me. 
And  she  has  done  other  evils  to  me  before,  to  wit,  burning  my 
mother  Semele ;  and  she  is  now  coming  to  Thebes  to  destroy  it. 
But,"  said  he,  "  I  shall  employ  some  device  to  delay  the  hosts." 
And  he  advanced  swiftly  and  with  haste  over  the  plain 
against  the  host,  and  it  was  midday  at  that  time,  and  the  eft¥*h 
\a& -Bad- anrTnot  there  with  the  brightness  of  the  sun.  The 
gods  and  goddesses  of  the  falls  and  rivers  were  summoned  unto 
him,  and  he  said  to  them  :  "  Put  ye,"  said  he,  "  a  hiding  screen 
over  the  estuaries  of  the  waters  of  the  whole  of  Greece,  so  that 
their  beds  behind  them  may  be  quite  dry  sloughs,  and  cover 
first  the  waters  of  the  woods  of  Nemea,  and  I  shall  make  a 
fitting  recompense  for  it  to  you  again,"  said  he.  And  no  sooner 
had  he  said  that  than  the  lakes  and  swift  rivers,  the  wells  and 
winter  lochs  of  the  land  were  dried  up,  so  that  the  beds  of  these 
rivers  were  hard  roads,  to  wit,  of  Lerna  and  Lyrcius,  Inachus 
and  Charadrus,  Erasinus  and  Asterion.  But  yet  there  was  one 
river  under  the  sheltered  recesses  of  the  wood,  with  no  ebbing 
of  its  waters,  to  wit,  Langia  was  its  name  ;  and  few  were  they 
who  knew  of  that  water. 


E.  2 ib  47  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  201b  14 

Cid  tra  acht  rogabastar  ittu  adual  na  Grecu1  cona  fetais2ll^b" 
1755  a  sceith  do  chongbail,  na  [a  Eg.]  luirecha  lasamna  d'  imurchur3 ; 

I  ni  fseltais4  a  n-eich  a  ?*-imochur5  na  miled  sin  risi?z  lasud6 
lanitad  bai  orro  iter  ech  -]  duni7.    Et  rochuir  Adraist  taiscelta 

ar  gach  leth  d'  iarraid  uisqui  (p.  22)  .i.  co  sruth  na  Memon,  -j  co  745 
Sien  siblach  siruar8,  -j  ni  fuaradar9  bancíi  usqui  i  n-i/md  dib. 

1760  Et  roailsed  uar  na10  deib  usqui,  -j  nir-sailsed  uiaqui  d'  as  na 
d'  [fhjerthaiw  ar  t&lmain  tre  bithu ;  -j  i??d  mar  dauadar11  ar 
sechran  sechno»  na  cailli,  atchoncadar  mnai  n-alamd  n-ilchro- 
thaig  co  dubach  domenmnach  .i.  Ipsifilé,  -j  dalta  derrscaigthech  748 
di  'na12  llaim  .i.  Achemurus,  mac  Ligurgiws13;  -|  Ofeltes  ai/mi 

1765  aili  don  mac  si?;.  Et  ua  rignaidi14  rodelb  na  hiwgine  sin, 
ger-b  olc  a  hiwdell  -j  a  hetgud,  -j  rosocht  Adraist  aca  faicsinr?, 
-j  adiibcw'rt :  "  A  bandei  coem15  ciwnachtach.,"  ar  se,  "  uair  dar 
lind  nocho  dsenwa  do  delb16  acht  mad  dellrud  diada,  tobair17 
foirithi»18  eolais  uisqui  oraircd,  -]  ni  thobair  Ioib  fortacht  forai/id. 

1770  Et  [ajtamait  ac  tocht  do  thogail  Tebi,  -j  ni  cath  marbas  [s]i/id19 
acht  mad  oenerti20  ittad.  Et  is  lor  li/idi21  do  Ioib  thussu 
d'  [fh]ortac/ii22  uisqui  orai^d.  Et  co?«daifignigsiu  ar  curpu-ni 
dochum  in  chatha,  -j  dobe7-tar  aisceda  cruid  creichi  dit23, 
-j  dogentar  idbairt24  gacha  tuaithi  dit."    Et  nir-leic  ind  n-itu25 

i775dermár  dofholac/iía  labra  secha  sin  don  rig  d'  Adraist,  -j  ba 
bana   buadirthi   na  Gre?'c26  uili  ri  heici«  na  hitad  sin.     Et 
rocromastar  Ipsifile  a  gnuis,  -j  adbert :  "  Bid  bandei  daibsi  me,  775 
a  Grecu27,  -|  da?io,"  ar  si28,  "  ata  mo  chairdes29  risna  deib,  -j  ata 
athair   maith   -j   atharda  acnm  ar  bunad ;   -j   ni  lem   fen  in 

i78omacan-sa  atchithi  im  laim;  -\  nibiu  ni  is  faiti  co  bar  fmrech30,  781 
acht  ticid  lem  co  hobimd  co  sirsruth  soola   .i.   Langa,   na31 

1  Eg.  itu  adhual  nca  Grecaigh  2  Eg.  conach  fetfaclis  3  Eg.  do 

imchur  4  Eg.  ni  fedfadis  s  Eg.  i»ichur  6  Eg.  lasadh 

7  Eg.  each  7  duine  8  Eg.  sirfuar  9  E.  fuaridar  10  Eg.  arna 

II  Eg.  dfás...7  mar  douator  12  Eg.  dersgn-  13  Eg.  Ligurius 
14  E.  rignaigi  ls  Eg.  baindei  csem  16  Eg.  nach  doenna  dealb 
17  Eg.  taiiair  18  Eg.  foiridhtin  19  Eg.  sinn  20  Eg.  mad  enirte 
21  Eg.  lind  22  Eg.  tusa  d'fhurtacht  23  Eg.  cruidh  7  cetradh  duit 
24  Eg.  idbarta  25  Eg.  in  ita  2C  E.  na  nGrec  Eg.  bawbuaidertha  na  Grecaig 
27  Eg.  mhe  a  Greca  23  E.  ar  siad  29  Eg.  ar  si  athardha 
7  mathardha  acum  7  ata  mo  cairdes  30  Eg.  nis  faide  ga  uar  fitireach 
31  Eg.  Laingia  nach 

I  12 


THE  THEBAID 

Now  great  thirst  seized  the  Greeks,  so  that  they  were  unable 
to  hold  up  their  shields,  or  to  carry  their  flaming  corslets;  and 
their  horses  could  not  endure  to  carry  those  soldiers  from  the 
burning  of  an  intense  thirst  that  assailed  them  both  horse  and 
man.  And  Adrastus  sent  speculators  in  every  direction  to  seek 
water,  to  wit,  to  the  river  of  Amymone,  and  to  meandering 
ever-cool  Syene  [a  town],  and  they  found  not  a  drop  of  water 
in  a  channel  of  them.  And  they  besought  the  gods  for  water, 
and  they  did  not  hope  for  water  to  spring  from,  or  rain  upon, 
the  earth  for  ever ;  and  there,  as  they  were  wandering  through 
the.  wood,  they  beheld  a  beautiful  woman  of  many  charms  in 
gloom  and  dejection,  to  wit,  Hypsipyle,  holding  her  distinguished 
fosterling  in  her  hand,  to  wit,  Archemorus,  son  of  Lycurgus ; 
but  Opheltes  is  another  name  for  that  boy.  And  queenly  was 
the  stately  form  of  that  maiden,  though  her  dressing  and  her 
attire  were  bad.  And  Adrastus  remained  silent  beholding  her, 
and  he  said :  "  Fair  and  mighty  goddess,"  said  he,  "  for  we  think 
thy  form  is  not  human  but,  as  it  were,  a  divine  brilliancy,  give 
us  succour  in  finding  water,  since  Jove  does  not  assist  us.  And 
we  are  going  to  sack  Thebes,  and  it  is  not  war  that  slays  us  but 
weakness  from  thirst.  And  we  deem  it  sufficient  of  Jove  that 
thou  shouldest  succour  us  with  water.  And  do  thou  strengthen 
our  bodies  unto  the  war,  and  gifts  of  a  cattle  foray  will  be  given 
thee,  and  sacrifices  of  every  tribe  shall  be  offered  thee."  And 
the  very  great  and  intolerable  thirst  did  not  allow  the  king 
Adrastus  speech  beyond  that,  and  all  the  Greeks  were  pale  and 
troubled  by  the  violence  of  that  thirst.  And  Hypsipyle  bent  down 
her  face,  and  said :  "  I  shall  be  a  goddess  to  you,  O  Greeks,  and 
indeed,"  said  she,  "  I  have  a  relationship  with  the  gods,  and  I  have 
a  good  father  and  fatherland  originally;  and  not  mine  own  is 
this  little  boy  you  see  in  my  hand ;  and  I  am  not  to  delay  you 
longer,  but  come  ye  with  me  quickly  to  the  potable  ever-flowing 
stream,  to  wit,  Langia,  that  ebbs  not  for  thirst  or  for  heat ; 
c.  i  i  3  8 


E.  22a  30  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  202a  10 

traigend  ri  tart  na  re  teasbach ;  -j  [ni]  rochuindig  druidi1  do  £ 
thragad  ar  met  is  coiserctha  é."  Et  rochuir-si  a  dalta  uaithi  785 
ar  lax  gu  na2  fuirged  na  firu,  -]  robai  ac  brecad3  na  naidean 

i785sealad4  co  roibi  ina  thast5  -\   tainic  reorapu  'na  deagaid  sin.  793 
In  maccoem  immorro  robi  sideic  ac  brisiud  inn  [fhjeoir6  ua 
chosaib   each  re  feacht,  -j  robid  ac  siubal  *j   ac  siriuw  -]   ac 
sireigium  ag  iarraid  chithi  a  muimi7  in  feacht  aili.     Et  ua 
haineolach    d'    imgabail    uile    in    macan8    sin    na    d'    iarraid  799 

1790  niaithmsa  an  tan  sin. 

Na  Greic9  immorro  tainic  each  ua  comair  dib-seic  ara  caethib10 
d'  iarraid  inn  iisci  ar  fat  na  cailli  dluithi  doimtheachta.    Et  ni  805 
tosach    sliged   roleiged   don   ingin   dochura   inn   nsci.    Et   ua 
samalta  coma  fochrach11  firmaimint12  re   nuall  subochais  int 

i795[s]loig   siw  ri    heas13  na   haband,  amal  nuall   náired   aca  no- 813 
combadud14  in  tan  concifigid  calad.    Rothoirnsedar  ar  in  n-usci 
na  Greic9  gan  discrit,  cen  delugud,  gan  uaisli,  gan  onoir  do 
neoch  dib  da  cheili,  cu  na  leigtis15  a  nn-eich  na  n-arad16  torlem 
da  tigernaib  ri   tindemts  ola  inn  iisci.    Et  ua  dirim  trethan 

1800  na  tond  ri  tachim  in17  trensluaig  (col.  /3)  sin  ac  ibi  inn  usci, 
coma  bristi  na  bruaichi,  -j  coma  salach  sirbuaidirthi  inn  aband 
on  ci/id  co  cheli.  Et  ua  himda  deoch  iarmarta  acca  hoi  andsin, 
1  ua  samalta  coma  seselbi  catha  'ca  commorad  buredach  na 
buidne18  sin  ac  ol  inn  usci.   Et  rolabair  ri  dona  rigaib  sin  ar 

1805  larmedoft19  na  haband,  -7  robai  ac  beandochad  inn  usci  ■]  ic 
tsescelad  inn  inaid  i  rroibe,  -j  robai  'ga20  molad  co  mor, 
■7  adrubftirt :  "  Ni  fhacamar,"  ar  se,  "  usci  bad  fherr  ina  int 
iisci,  na  coill  uad21  chaime  ina  in  choill  i??a  uil22;  -j  ni  coir,"  ar 
se,  "  sruth  do  chor  'na  cheand." 

1  Eg.  ni  ro  ehumaing  draighthi  a  2  Eg.  conach  3  Eg.  preag«d 

4  Eg.  sealat         5  Eg.  na  tocht         e  Eg.  ic  brisiugud  an  feoir         7  Eg.  buime 

n 
8  Eg.  maccacHi  9  Eg.  Greca  10  Eg.  coithibh  n  E.  focach 

12  Eg.  firmaminti  13  Eg.  re  hes  14  Eg.  nouiredha  ica  combathadh 

E.  aca  no-coniadug      15  Eg.  tar  a  cbele  conach  legdis       16  Eg.  in  eich  anarnar- 
17  Eg.  re  toichestal  in  18  Eg.  corna  seisheilb...buaidreach  na  mbuidni 

19  Eg.  medoiw  20  E.  ga  21  Eg.  udh  22  Eg.  ina  bfuil 


114 


THE  THEBAID 

and  wizards  have  not  sought  to  dry  it  up,  inasmuch  as  it  is 
consecrated."  And  she  put  her  fosterling  down  upon  the  ground, 
that  he  might  not  delay  the  men,  and  she  kept  beguiling  the 
infant  for  a  little  while,  till  he  remained  silent,  and  she  pre- 
ceded them  after  that.  The  boy,  however,  was  breaking  the 
grass  under  his  feet  at  one  time,  and  at  another  he  kept 
wandering,  searching,  and  ever  crying,  as  he  sought  his  nurse's 
breast.  And  that  little  boy  was  ignorant  at  that  time  either 
how  to  avoid  evil  or  how  to  seek  good. 

As  for  the  Greeks,  however,  each  of  them  came  straight  forward 
on  their  ways  to  seek  water  throughout  the  dense  impassable 
wood.  And  it  was  no  leading  of  the  way  to  the  water  that  was 
allowed  to  the  girl.  But  it  was  like  as  if  it  were  a  rending  of 
the  firmament  with  the  joyous  shout  of  that  host  at  the  river 
fall,  [or]  like  the  shout  of  shipwrecked  sailors  when  they  enter 
into  port.  The  Greeks  descended  to  the  water  without  distinction 
or  difference,  without  nobility  or  honour  by  one  of  them  to 
another,  so  that  the  horses  of  the  charioteers  did  not  allow  their 
lords  to  dismount  for  haste  to  drink  the  water.  Immense  was 
the  storm  of  the  waves  at  the  approach  of  that  mighty  host 
as  they  drank  the  water,  so  that  the  banks  were  broken  and  the 
river  was  foul  and  troubled  from  one  end  to  the  other.  And 
many  a  drink  of  consequence  was  being  drunk  there,  and  like 
as  it  were  a  tumult  of  gathering  battle  was  the  roar  of  that 
band  as  they  drank  the  water,  and  one  of  those  kings  spoke 
right  in  the  midst  of  the  river.  And  he  was  blessing  the  water, 
and  surveying  the  place  in  which  it  was,  and  greatly  praising 
it,  and  he  said :  "  We  have  not  seen,"  said  he,  "better  water  than 
this,  or  a  fairer  wood  than  the  wood  in  which  it  flows ;  and  it  is 
not  meet,"  said  he,  "  to  put  a  stream  ahead  of  it." 


115  8— 2 


E.  22b  12  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  202b  9 


1810      Et  o  rachaisced  a  n-itaid-sium1  isini  sruth  si»,  ro'fhacsad  in     * 
n-aband.    Et  daronsad  sruthlecud   da  n-eachaib  -]  coinliúg  da  3 
coisidib2co  subach  somenmnach  arna  bruigib  fondglasa  fermara  14 
gor-gob  brig  *]  brogad  -]  borrfad,  at  -]  annindi  na  Grecu  amal 
concuirtis  cath  inn  uair  si?;3.    Et  dorindit  catha  dib  dorisi4, 

1815-]  each  ina  inad  uadem  do  reir  uird  amal  rouadar  remi, 
•7  roimluaidsed5  imthecht  coma  luaithred  lansalach  na  moigi 
na-imtigdis6  -j  contaidlitis  ruithni  roglana  osna  cathchoilltib 
arm  batar  uastu7.  Is  andsiw  immorro  rothoris  Adraist  i  mbun 
chroi»d,  -j  gai  a  clemna  YoMnices  acca  cofiguail  ina  sheasam8 18 

1820  ar  lar  int  [s]luaig,  1  roiarfaid  don  i»gi»  Ipsifile9 :  "  Cia  th'  athair,  20 
a  ingen,"  ar  se,  "  -j   ca  cWch  is  dual  dit  ? "    Ro[fh]recair  inn 
ingen  do-sum  co  truag  -j  co  toirrsech  :  "  A  uasail,  a  Adraist,"  29 
ar  si,  "  is  cruaid  na  gnima  fwmile10  orura  d'  indism,  mar  romarbsad 
mna  i»dsi  Leimi»  a  firu  acht  misi  mo  enur11,"  ar'si,  "nir-marbus 

1825  m'athair.  Et  is  lor  sin  da  i/idisi12,  uair  ata  ti?*denws  orbsi  dochum 
in  chatha.   Acht  chena  is  e  Toaint,  mac  Baich,  m'  athair-sea, 
-j    Ipsifile   m'    ainm    fen,   -j    a   ndoiri   atú   ac   Ligoric   do   uar  40 
mu?iter-si." 

Tucsadar  each  da  n-airi  hi,  -]  rob  onorach   ailgiitsach   leo  a 

]83oscela  do  cloisteac/íí.  Atrubairt  Adraist  ria-si:  "Iwnis  do  scela 
uili  cei?^13  no  co  roithset14  na  dsescitrshluaig  tresi»  coilli  uair  is 
doimtheachta  hi." 

Et  dochuaid  i  cend  in  sceoil  [d'  in?iisi??  Eg.] :  "  Inis  Leimin,"' 
ar  si,  "ata  aijpi  raw  anbtheanaig15  Egeta,  -\  sliab  nEthna  do 

1835  thaib  di  1  sliab  Athos  don  taib  aili  di,  -\  in  Tracia  ob  ri  hob  ria, 
1  feda  croebglasa  comora  inti,  -\  imat  gacha  maithi[u]sa  inti  do 
dainib  -j  d'  iwdmasaib,  -j  ni  ferr  innis  Saim  na  inis  Deil16  na 
inis  daraibi  ar  mair  Eig  uili  na  inn  inis  si?i17.    Acht  chena  ni  58- 
dearnsamar18  idbairt  da  Uenir  bandei  na  toili19  riam,  -j  ua  fergach 

1  Eg.  rocoiscsit  a  n-itu  2  Eg.  leccon...cla  coisidkibk     E.  coisigib 

3  E.  na  nGrecu    Eg.  g?troroghabh...isin  uair  sin  4  Eg.  dori«sit...doridhisi 

5  E.  roiraluaigsed  6  Eg.  ?ioimchidis  '  Eg.  uadesta 

8  E.  ina  tbeasa?H  Eg.  tsesum  9  Eg.  d'lsifile  10  Eg.  furailes  u  Eg.  am  aenur 
12  Eg.  innisiw  13  Eg.  gen  14  Eg.  roithet  1E  Eg.  ata  om....n-ainbkfenai<7 
16  Eg.  innis  Del      17  Eg.  na  in  innsi  sin      18  Eg.  dernsamar      i9  E.  na  na  toili 

Il6 


THE  THEBAID 


BOOK  V 


And  when  they  had  quenched  their  thirst  in  that  stream  they 
left  the  river.  And  they  gave  a  free  course  for  their  horses 
and  a  contest  for  their  foot-soldiers,  joyously  spiritedly  on  the 
green-bottomed  grassy  farms,  so  that  force  vehemence  and  pride, 
swelling  and  elation  seized  the  Greeks  as  if  they  were  to  join 
battle  then.  And  again  battalions  of  them  were  formed  and 
each  was  in  his  own  place  according  to  rank  as  they  were  before, 
and  they  hastened  a  march  so  that  the  plains  on  which  they 
marched  became  very  foul  dust,  and  very  bright  rays  gleamed 
over  the  embattled  woods  of  arms  which  were  above  them. 
Then  moreover  Adrastus  took  his  stand  at  the  foot  of  a  tree, 
having  the  spear  of  his  son-in-law  Polynices  in  his  grasp  as  he 
stood  in  the  midst  of  the  host,  and  he  asked  of  the  maiden 
Hypsipyle :  "  Who  is  thy  father,  O  maiden,"  said  he,  "  and  what 
is  thy  native  land  ? "  The  maiden  answered  him  miserably  and 
sadly  :  "O  noble  one,  O  Adrastus,"  said  she,  "cruel  are  the  deeds 
thou  dost  enjoin  upon  me  to  relate,  how  the  women  of  the  isle 
of  Lemnos  killed  their  men,  save  myself  alone.  I,"  said 
she,  "  did  not  slay  my  father ;  and  that  is  enough  to  relate," 
said  she,  "  for  ye  are  in  haste  for  the  battle.  But  yet  Thoas, 
son  of  Bacchus,  is  my  father,  and  mine  own  name  is  Hypsipyle, 
and  I  am  in  bondage  to  Lycurgus  one  of  your  people." 

Every  one  turned  his  attention  to  her,  and  thought  it  honour- 
able and  desirable  to  listen  to  her  tales.  Adrastus  said  to  her : 
"  Tell  all  thy  tidings,  till  the  common  folk  havorun  through 
the  wood,  for  it  is  not  easily  traversed." 

And  she  went  ahead  with  the  tale :  "  The  isle  of  Lemnos," 
said  she,  "  stands  in  the  stormy  ^Egean  sea,  with  mount  Etna 
on  one  side  of  it,  mount  Athos  on  the  other,  and  Thrace  opposite, 
and  there  are  huge  green-branched  woods  in  it,  and  abundance 
of  every  good  in  it  both  of  men  and  of  treasures,  and  not  better 
than  that  isle  is  the  isle  of  Samos,  or  Delos,  or  any  isle  situated 
in  the  whole  /Egean.  But  yet  we  had  never  offered  sacrifice  to 
Venus,  the  goddess  of  love,  and  hence  Venus  was  angry,  so 
117 


E.  22b  48  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  203a  1 1 

i84oUenir  de  sin,  co  ra-adand  bruth  *j  dasacht  ar  lucht1  na  hi??dsi    ^  ' 
uili.    Ni  subacA  somenmacA  rabid  ar  [s]loig  i  n-aidchi  ac  lucht 
na  hi?idsi2  sin  acht  mad  anindi  -j  esoenta  cein  no  co3  tanic  ar 
menmain  do  lsechraid  (p.  23)  landiurasaig  tocht  do  togail  tiri  na 
T?-ttgia  -j  ge  rauadar  a  meic  -7  a  munter  'ca  n-astad4  nir-ansad 

1845  aco.    Na  mna,  immorro,  ua  toirrsech  iat-side  don  turis  inna  fer 
sin  uaithib.    Et  ua  hoc  anarsaid  misi  in  tan  sein,"  ar  si  Ipsifile, 
"  1  ni  roibi  sni?n  ar  mo  menmain.    Na  mna  immorro  aili  robi 
each  dib  ac  comdingnad  a  cheli  ac  feichim5  na  T?*aicia  uaithib  ait  84 
i  rrauatar  a  muinter  a[c]  cathugud.    Et  oenafecht  da  rauamar-ni 

1850  and,"  ar  si  in  ingen,  "  a  medon  lai,  atchualamar  cethra  bresmad- 
manda  bratha  isinn  seor  os  ar  cind6  co  raclm'thnaigsetar  uamanda 
i/?dsi  Lemin  -j  in  muir  mar  bad7  gaeth  congarbad,  ■)  ua  fidg?-ad 
firuilc  sin.  Uair  is  andsin  roerig  bean  uasal  Oirphi8  do  mnaib 
indsi  Lemin,  -j  rogob  bruth  -]  dasacht  hi  co  roibi  ar  foluamain 

1855  ac  buaidred  in  baili  ar  letred  a  haigthi  da  hingnib.   Et  rotinoil 
in   baili   co   haenthech   robai   a   mullach    in   baili,   -j    adbert : 
'  Daingniged   uar   cWdeada,   -j    bid   aicned   fearda   fuapartach9  105 
accaib,  *j   marbaid  uar   firu    uili    moccaib,  braithrib,    aithrib: 
-j  cuimnigid  in  miscais  tucsad  uar  fir10  oraib  ri  re  tri  mbliacfan 

i86oanosa.    Et,  a  thruagu/  ar  si,  'nach  cualabair  Brogna  bean  Tir  121 
do  marbad  a  meic  fein  .i.  Ites,  -]  a  thabairt  i  rricht  feola11  aili  da 
athair  arbithin  eiccni12  tuc  Tir  ara  derbshiair-si  .i.  Pilomena  a 
hainm.    Et  robean-sum13  barr  a  tengad  di  na  hindised  air.    Et 
roscrib  ina  breit14  d'  [fh]uil  a  tengad  sin,  -j  rothaisben  da  siair 

1865  iartain,  conid  imi  si?i  romarb  Progna  a  mac.  Et  cid  daib/  ar  si 
Polixo,  '  nach  mair[b]fed  sib  uar  mic  -j  uar  fir15  ?  Acht  mad  misi 
tra,  mair[b]fed  mo  mhac  ~\  m'  f[h]er,  -\  ata,'  ar  si,  '  Uenir  aca 
rada  ri?*d  a  marbad  uili,  -]  dobera-si  ni  ua  ferr  duinni  anat-som.' 
Et  ua  henmenma  ac  mnaib  insi  Lemhi  uili  'man16  co/nairli  sin 

1870  Polixo  do  denum,  -j  rochi?idsetar  a  firu  uili  do  marbad  ite?*  oc 
-]  sen. 

1  Eg.  de  sin  gur-gabh  brutb  7  dasacht  lucht  2  Eg.  ar  sloig  maithe  a[c] 

caine  lucht  na  hinnsi  3  Eg.  cein  co  4  Eg.  fosdiírf  6  Eg.  feithem 

8  Eg.  ser  uas  ar  cend  7  Eg.  Lemin  and  mar  bad  8  Eg.  Oirfi 

9  Eg.  fuabartach  10  Eg.  firu  n  Eg.  fheola  12  Eg.  in  hecin 
13  Eg.  robean-son  14  Eg.  breidin  15  Eg.  iartoin  conadh  uime...macu 
7  uar  firu            16  Eg.  inat-sum...uile  uan 

Il8 


THE  THEBAID 

that  fury  and  madness  inflamed  her  against  the  people  of  the 
whole  isle.  Not  joyous  and  happy  was  it  for  hosts  at  night  with 
the  people  of  that  island,  but  as  it  were  anger  and  disunion, 
until  it  came  into  the  mind  of  the  full-proud  hero-folk  to  go 
and  sack  the  land  of  Thrace ;  and  though  their  sons  and  their 
people  were  detaining  them  they  did  not  remain  with  them. 
The  women,  moreover,  were  sad  at  the  departure  of  those  men 
from  them.  And  I  myself  was  young  and  inexperienced  at  that 
time,"  said  Hypsipyle,  "  and  no  sadness  lay  upon  my  mind. 
The  other  women  moreover  used,  each  of  them,  to  strengthen 
the  other,  as  they  gazed  away  to  Thrace,  where  their  people 
were  waging  war.  And  once  when  we  remained  there,"  said  the 
maiden,  "  at  midday  we  heard  four  sudden  cracks  of  doom  in 
the  air  above  our  heads,  so  that  the  caves  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos 
shook,  and  the  sea  was  as  if  it  were  a  wind  that  roughened  it, 
and  that  was  a  foreboding  of  dire  evil.  For  then  arose  the  noble 
wife  of  Charope,  one  of  the  women  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos,  and 
fury  and  madness  seized  her,  so  that  she  continued  fluttering 
about  as  she  threw  the  town  into  confusion,  tearing  her  face  with 
her  nails.  And  she  assembled  the  tawn  at  one  house  which  was 
at  the  top  of  the  town,  and  she  said: '  Bo^^r^cMs^trengtheneé, 
and  yours  be  a  manly  aggressive  nature,  and  slay  all  your  men — 
sons,  brothers,  fathers :  and  remember  the  hatred  your  men  have 
shown  you  for  the  space  of  three  years  now.  And,  O  ye  wretched 
ones,'  said  she,  '  have  ye  not  heard  that  Procne,  wife  of  Tereus, 
killed  her  own  son,  to  wit  Itys,  and  gave  him  to  his  father  in 
the  guise  of  other  flesh,  because  of  violence  which  Tereus  offered 
to  her  own  sister,  to  wit,  Philomela  her  name.  And  he  cut  away 
the  point  of  her  tongue  lest  she  should  tell  against  him.  And 
she  wrote  that  in  her  kerchief  with  the  blood  of  her  tongue, 
and  showed  it  to  her  sister  afterwards,  so  on  that  account 
Procne  slew  her  son.  And  what  ails  you,'  said  Polyxo,  '  that  ye 
will  not  slay  your  sons  and  your  men  ?  As  for  me,  indeed, 
I  shall  slay  my  son  and  my  man,  since  Venus,'  said  she,  '  is 
telling  us  to  slay  them  all,  and  she  will  give  us  something 
better  than  they  are.'  And  the  women  of  the  isle  of  all  Lemnos 
were  of  one  mind  as  to  following  that  counsel  of  Polyxo,  and 
they  resolved  to  kill  all  their  men  both  young  and  old. 
119 


E.  23a  38  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  2o3b  13 

"  Is  i  sin  oes  -j  uair  doriachtadar  lsechrad  insi  Lemin1  o  thogail     * 
na  Tragia  moiri.   Kobai  immorro  fidnemed  dorcha  doimthechta 
isint  [s]leb2  ua  comnesa  doib,  7  dachuadar  mna  insi  Lemin 

1875  d'    iarraid    [fhjrecra   arna   deib,  1   tangadar   badba   bellderga 
ichtair  ifirn  da  mbuaidred-sum  conici  sin.     Et  rouai3  Uenir 
uamchumachtach  7  Enio  urbadach,  siur  Mairt,  dei  in  chatha, 
ac  furail  uilc  ar  na8  mnaib  sin.    Et  is  am  laid  robai  Polixo  ben  163 
Charoip,  7  taidbsi  a  im'c  'na  farrad  anefei?i.    Et  dorindseadar4 

i88ocomluigi,  co  mar[b]fidis5  a  firu.    Et  rogab  adfuath  adbul  raise," 
ar  si   Ipsiphile,    "  ac    faicsin  na  mban   sin  amal   aig6  n-allaid 
timtechech7  iter  cuanairt  croesos-(col.  /3)-laicthi  confadacha  do  166 
chonaib  allta. 

"Cid  tra  ackt  tangadar  na  fir  sin  asa  longaib,  7  daro?isad  idbarta  170 

1885  ecsamla  imda,  7  roleicset  re  hoi  7  re  haibnn<s  iad,  comdis  mes[c]da 
mertnecha  uili.   Et  o  ra[t]hoit  a  suan  sirchotalta  ar  na8  sluagaib,  200 
tangadar  a  mna  fegi  fnruagra9  da  n-i/idsaigid  da  marbad,  cun- 
sa3set10  fuithib  amal  saga  gera  gortacha  leoman  da  culenaib  ac 
inred  alma  7  indili.    Et  a  athair  inmain,  a  Adraist,"  ar  si  Ipsifile, 

1890  "ni  fetar11  ca  hole  dib  indesaid12  duid  ar  tus :  acht  romarb  Gorge  207 
arnaid  aneolach  a  fer  ancfein  .i.  Elemns.   Et  is  amlaid  robai-sium 
-j  a  da  laim  impi-si,  co  rosaid  in  cloideb  ind13,  cor-gob  a  rrindi14 
ina  chorp  fen,  7  rouai-seom  fos  aca  pocad-si  7  a  lama  ima  bragaid. 
Et  ni  fhetai?»-sea  a  n-airiu??i  uili  gach  ar-marbad  andsin.    Acht 

1895  chena  indesaid15  becan  da  maithib  uodeiw  .i.  Mirmédon.    Romarb  224 
immorro  Epopéa  a  mac  uadein,  -j  romarb  Licáse  a  derbrathair 
comaesta16  uodein  .i.  Cidomon,  7  roui  ac  cui  osa  cind.  Et  romarbad  236 
Alcimiden,  -j  robenad  a  cheand  de.    Et  [o]  adchondarcas-[s]a17 
sin,  rogab  ecla  *j  adfuath  me,  -j  tanac-sa  im  baidb18  buaidertha  co 

1900  tech  m'  athar  .i.  Toaint,  -j  ge-r  fata  amach  on  baili  in  tech  i 
rroibi,  robai  aca  iarfaide  :  '  Ca  rset19  in  mm'rn,'  ar  se,  '  ar-atclui- 
neam20  isin  baili  V  Et  roindis21  uli  da  hathair  sin22 :  '  Eirig  a  athair 
inmain,'  ar  si, '  uair  da  mbertar  oraind,  muir[b]fer23  sind  aroen '." 

1  Eg.  Lernei/i          2  Eg.  isin  tsligidh          3  Eg.  douai  4  Eg.  dorighsitar 

6  Eg.  co  murbfidis    6  E.aid  Eg.  aigh     7  Eg.  timteichedh  8  Eg.  mesca...forna 

9  Eg.  furfhuagra            10  Eg.  consoigsit            n  Eg.  útir  1S  Eg.  indeasat 

13  Eg.  cloider/i  and          14  Eg.  urranrf          15  Eg.  inJesat  16  Eg.  coimmesta 
17  Eg.  7  o  doconnairc-sa       18  Eg.  mhc.tainicsa  im  baidhbh   E.  tanacsa  badba 

19  Eg.  'ga  fiarfaide  ca  rat                    20  Eg.  roclwiratwi  21  Eg.  roindiusa 
22  Eg.  dom  athair  sin                23  Eg.  murbhfider 

120 


THE  THEBAID 

"  At  that  time  and  hour  the  hero-folk  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos 
came  from  sacking  Thracia  Major.  Now  there  was  a  dark  im- 
passable sacred  grove  in  the  mountain  that  was  nearest  them, 
and  the  women  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos  went  to  ask  an  answer  of 
the  gods,  and  the  red-mouthed  goddesses  of  the  depths  of  hell 
had  come  to  confuse  them  hitherto.  And  Venus,  mighty  queen, 
and  baleful  Enyo,  sister  of  Mars,  the  god  of  battle,  were  enjoining 
evil  upon  those  women.  And  thus  was  Polyxo,  wife  of  Charopus, 
with  the  shade  of  her  son  beside  her  there.  And  they  made 
a  conspiracy  that  they  would  kill  their  men.  And  great  horror 
seized  me,"  said  Hypsipyle,  "  seeing  those  women  like  a  fugitive 
hind  amid  an  open-mouthed  raging  pack  of  wolves. 

"  Now  those  men  came  from  their  ships,  and  offered  divers 
and  many  sacrifices,  and  gave  themselves  up  to  drinking  and 
enjoyment,  so  that  they  were  all  drunk  and  worn  out.  And 
when  the  sleep  of  lasting  slumber  had  fallen  on  the  hosts,  their 
fierce  and  furious  wives  came  towards  them  to  slay  them,  and 
attacked  them  like  lionesses  keen  and  hungry  from  their  whelps, 
raiding  flocks  and  herds.  And  beloved  father,  Adrastus,"  said 
Hypsipyle,  "  I  do  not  know  which  of  these  evils  I  shall  tell  you 
first :  but  cruel  ignorant  Gorge  slew  her  husband  there,  to  wit, 
Elymus.  And  thus  was  he,  with  his  arms  about  her,  till  she 
thrust  the  sword  into  him,  and  he  received  its  point  in  his  own 
body,  and  he  was  still  kissing  her  with  his  arms  about  her  neck. 
But  I  am  not  able  to  number  them  all — every  one  who  was 
slain  there.  But  yet  I  shall  mention  some  of  their  own  nobles, 
to  wit,  Myrmidone.  Moreover  Epopea  slew  her  own  son,  and 
Lycaste  slew  her  own  twin  brother  coeval  with  herself,  Cydimon, 
and  she  remained  weeping  over  him.  And  Alcimede  [Lemnia 
quaedam]  was  slain,  and  his  head  was  struck  off  him.  And  when 
I  saw  that,  fear  and  horror  seized  me,  and  I  came  a  troubled 
ghost  to  the  house  of  my  father  Thoas,  and  though  the  house 
in  which  he  lived  was  far  away  from  the  town,  he  kept  asking : 
'  What  means  the  clamour,'  said  he,  '  which  I  have  heard  in  the 
town  ?'  And  she  told  all  that  to  her  father.  'Arise,  dear  father,' 
said  she,  *  for  if  we  are  caught,  we  shall  both  be  slain  '." 

121 


E.  23b  30  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg. 


Theb. 


Et  roerig  Toaint  ar  ún  7  Ipsiphile  a  ingen,  -j  tawgadar  ar 

ic^chgethib1  diamra  in  baili  amach,  conriachtadar  conicci  in  ar- 
bach2,  -j  robadar  co  dic[h]ealta  'ca  descai??.  Et  atchondcadar3  na 
firu  foena  fiarletarthi  ina4  lepthaib  arna  marbad  da  mnaib  fen 
tre  aslach  Uenire5  forru,  -j  na  cloidmi  croderga  trena  cnesaib, 
■j   na  slega  arna  sarbrisiud   treompo,  -j   consnaetis6  na  copana  255 

i9iocsema7  comola  arna  lintib  fala  firmora  batar  anrf  re  haidbli  in 
airlig.  Uair  batar  seanoraig  arna  sitled  andsin,  -j  oic  arna 
n-airlech,  7  mcrccaim  arna  mudugud8.  Et  adchondairc  Ipsip[h]ile 
taidbsi  Baich  ua  tri  ag  iarraid  a  imc  Toaint  .i.  a  hathar-si, 
1  tucastar  Ipsip[h]ile  aichni  ar  Baith  andsi??.    Et  rolabair  Baich 

1915  riu9 :  "  Dena  imtheacht,  a  mic,"  ar  se,  "7  facaib  inis  Lemi/i,  7  is 
lor  a  fhat10  risna  deib  ata  inis  Lemi/?11  acut.    Et  a  ingen,"  ar  se, 
"ber  let  t'  athair,  -j  cuir  ina  curach  e  baili  i  teit12  in  mur  isi/t  280 
muir  moir  amach,  7  dob^-sa  fortacht  fair  ar  sin."    Roimthig  284 
Baich,  7  rofhacaib  comartha  sliged13  doib,  -|  tangadar-sum  reompo 

1920 'si??  sligid  (p.  24)  7  rochuir  in  i??gen  a  hathair  arm  muir,  7  roba- 
dar aroen  a[c]  comchui14  co  matin15.  Et  ta??ic  inn  ingen  ar  culu 
uada,  -j  rouid16  ac  silliud  ara  hais  co  mwic  ara  hathair. 

Et  o  thanic  la  cona  lansoillsi,  adchondcadar  na  mna  insi  300 
Lemi??  na  huilc  siw  doronsad  fen  .i.  a  fir  da  marbad,  7   ua 

1925  haithrech  leosura  si??,  -j  rangadar,  -j  rouatar  a[g]  gul  -|  a[g] 
golgairi  uastu. 

Acht  ua  saidbir  sochonaig  d'  erraib17  -j  d'  armaib  -]  d'  ind-  305 
masaib  int  olen  sin  conici18  si?? ;  -j  rauadar  na  mna  si??  o  sen19 
amach  nama  gan  tirecor20  gan  trebaire  gan  ar  gan  buai/?  ga?i  309 

i93ofhiru  caBma  'ga  chomditi??21. 

Imthwsa  immorro  Ipsip[h]ile  doron??i  tenid  n-idbarta22  i  tig  a 
hathar,  7  rothocaib  airm  7  etgud  a  hathar.    Et  robai  claideb3i5 
.  i?i  rig23  Ian  d'  fhuil  ina  lai???,  mar  bad  ar  marbad  a  hathar  322 
robeth  7  arna  adluccun24.  Et  tucad  andsi?r25  ferancZ  a  hathar  di  .i. 

1  Eg.  coithibh  -  Eg.  armach  3  Eg.  dicheilti  ga  clfecsain  E.  Et  o  'tchoncadar 
4  Eg.  faena  marbhtha  ina  5  Eg.  Uenir  6  Eg.  tresna  cnesaib... co  snaighdis 
7  Eg.  copana  coemola  8  E.  Eg.  mugudud  9  Eg.  ria  10  Eg.  a  fad 

11  Eg.  atai  i  n-inis  L.  12  Eg.  in  baile  a  ted  13  Eg.  Roimt/iiiiidh  slighedb  acu 
14  E.  cbomcbui  1S  Eg.  acomcai  co  madain  16  Eg.  7  rouoi  "  E.  d'  evraib 
18  Eg.  connuigi  19  Eg.  o  sin  20  Eg.  tireguir  21  Eg.  ca  coimdiden 

22  Eg.  Ipsifile  immorro  doroine  teine  idbbarta  23  Eg.  claidem  a  hathar 

24  Eg.  dobeth  7  arna  adhlacadh  25  Eg.  om. 

122 


THE  THEBAID 

And  thereupon  Thoas  and  Hypsipyle,  his  daughter,  arose  and 
came  away  from  the  town  by  secluded  paths,  till  they  reached 
the  battlefield,  and  they  were  watching  it  in  concealment.  And 
they  saw  husbands  prostrate  and  foully  mangled  in  their  beds, 
slain  by  their  own  wives  through  Venus  instigating  them,  and 
the  red  gory  swords  through  their  skins,  and  the  spears  quite 
broken  through  them,  so  that  the  beautiful  banqueting  cups 
were  swimming  on  the  huge  pools  of  blood  that  lay  there  owing 
to  the  vastness  of  the  slaughter.  For  there  lay  old  men  bled 
to  death,  young  men  slaughtered,  and  lads  destroyed.  And 
Hypsipyle  saw  thrice  an  apparition  of  Bacchus  seeking  his  son 
Thoas,  to  wit,  her  own  father,  and  she  recognised  Bacchus  there. 
And  Bacchus  said  to  them  :  "  Take  thy  departure,  my  son," 
said  he,  "  and  leave  the  isle  of  Lemnos,  seeing  the  gods  deem 
the  time  thou  dost  possess  the  isle  long  enough.  And,  daughter," 
said  he,  "  take  thy  father  with  thee,  and  put  him  into  his  boat 
where  the  wall  goes  out  into  the  great  sea,  and  I  shall  bring 
him  aid  thereafter."  Bacchus  departed  and  left  a  way-mark  for 
them,  and  they  went  forward  on  the  way,  and  the  maiden  put 
her  father  on  the  sea,  and  they  were  weeping  together  till 
morning.  And  the  maiden  came  back  from  him,  and  continued 
often  to  look  behind  her  at  her  father. 

And  when  day  came  with  its  full  splendour,  the  women  of 
the  isle  of  Lemnos  saw  those  evils  that  they  themselves  had 
wrought,  to  wit,  that  their  husbands  were  slain,  and  they 
repented  of  that,  and  came,  and  continued  weeping  and  wailing 
over  them. 

But  that  isle  up  to  that  point  was  rich  and  prosperous  in 
men,  arms,  and  treasures ;  and  only  those  women  remained 
thenceforth  with  no  tillage,  husbandry,  ploughing,  or  reaping ; 
[and]  with  no  kind  husbands  to  protect  it. 

As  regards  Hypsipyle,  however,  she  made  a  sacrificial  fire  in 
her  father's  house,  and  showed  her  father's  arms  and  vestures. 
And  the  king's  blood-stained  sword  was  in  her  hand,  as  if  it 
were  so  that  she  had  just  slain  and  buried  her  father.  And  the 
land  of  her  father  was  then  given  her,  to  wit,  the  sovereignty 
123 


E.  24a  1 8  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  204b  22 

1935  aireochiw  indse  Lemin  uili.    Ua  mmic  lesi  -]  re  Polixo1  cum-     *  ' 
nigud   in   chuil   sin,   -j    robidis2   co    tairrsech    tastenacha   acca  335 
tuireom  eturru3. 

Et  o  rauatar  mna  insi    Lemin   amlaidh    sin  dar  eis  a  fer, 
adchondcadar  in  luing  luchtmair  lanmoir,  amal  oleán  do  learaib* 

1940  in  mara,  no  amal  sliab  lethan  lanmor  ar  met.   Et  is  i  robai5  and- 
sira  in  bennfhata  badbluath  cetlong  in  betha  .i.  Argo,  -j  rigrad6 
glendmer7  glanarmach  Grec  inti,  inta/i  dochuadar  d'  iarraid  in 
croicind  órda  co  tir  na  Colachetta.    Et  o  rascuirsedar  da  n-  340 
iwirud8  -7  robai  in  muir  in  tseichli9,  "  adchualamar,"  ar  si  Ipsifile, 

*945 "  guth  oenduwi  asiw10  luing.    Et  is  e  rouai  andsi»  .i.    Oirfews11  344 
ceolbind,  cruitire12,  mac  Oeaeger,  -j  a  gualu  risin  seolcrand  ac 
airfidiud13  do  lucht  na  lunga,  comad14  lugaiti  sni?n  na  ssersluag15 
re  ssethar  ind  imrama,  -j  ba  samalta16  lindi  coma  hiat  lucht  na 
Tragia  do  thogail  i/idsi  Lemin  orai?id. 

1950  "  Et  roergestar  asa  haithli  siw  sestan  -j  seiseilbi  mor  i  toegib17 
iíidsi  Leimin.    Et  dochuamar-ni18  arsin  i  toraib  roarda  romora  352 

I  i  crandócaib  comdaingni19  claraid  os  ci?id  na  cathrach.    Et 
rotinolsetar  mna  croda  c^Wthnaigthecha  i??dsi  Lemhin  cairrgi  354 
cruaidhi  comamais20,  -|  bera  fata  firgera,  ■]  airm  troma  toirrsecha 

1955  a  fer  uadein  nomarbsad21  remi  sin,  1  ragabsad  a  claidbi  forrua- 
manda22  fuilidi  ina  lamaib,  -j  rogabsad  a  lurecha  [lasamna  Eg.] 
salcha  snadmandacha  .'ma  corpaib  -|  a  cathbairr23  ceema,  cathaigi 
'ma24  cendaib.  Et  ua  samalta  lindi  tra  coma  torathur  firmor25  ior- 
gmnda  fairrgi  rabeth  andsin  d'aithi26  -\  do  degail  [oraind  Eg.]  ar 

i96on-uilc  -j27  ar  n-ecorach  oraind  (col.  /8),  -]27  nar-ba  long  luchtmar 
lanalaind.  Is  axxdsin  tra  adracht  gasth  gottshni??iach  glorach28, 
co  rasraineastair  in  luifig  si^  nrchur  saigti  sithguirmi  o  tir  -j  o 
tracht  amach.  Et  roc/mmaiscseadar  andsi?i  neoill  com[fh]liucha 
ciachmora  na  firmammti,  cor-ua  dorchatu   dluith29  iter  muir 

1  Eg.  le  Polixo        2  Eg.  rouoidis        3  Eg.  eturru  om.        4  Eg.  d'  oileanaibh 
5  Eg.  is  i  uoi  6  Eg.  cetlong  in  betha  om.:  rigraidh  7  Eg.  gloi/i/fmer 

8  Eg.  imrum  9  Eg.  rouai  in  muir  ina  teighW  10  Eg.  ae/mduine  isin 

II  Eg.  Orefeus  12  Eg.  mac  cruitire  13  Eg.  airfidedh  14  Eg.  coma 
}&  Eg.  na  sarsl-  16  Eg.  ind  immruma  7  ua  samalta  17  Eg.  a  tighibh 
18  Eg.  dochuadhmarne  19  Eg.  comdaingne  20  Eg.  comamuis  21  Eg.  7  ro- 
marbsat  22  Eg.  claidmhe  for  ruamannta  23  Eg.  cathbkarra  24  Eg.  uma 
25  Eg.  cumadb.  euma  torathair  firmoir  26  Eg.  d'aithe  27_27  Eg.  om. 
28  Eg.  doruachtatar  gaetha  goidsnimacba  gloracha                29  Eg.  dorcha  dluithi 

124 


THE  THEBAID 

of  all  the  isle  of  Lemnos.  Often  did  she  and  Polyxo  remember 
that  crime,  and  they  used  to  be  sad  and  silent,  as  they  recounted 
it  between  them. 

And  when  the  women  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos  were  in  that 
state  for  their  husbands,  they  saw  the  well-manned  very  great 
ship,  like  to  an  isle  of  the  sea  spaces,  or  like  a  broad  very  great 
mountain  in  size.  And  there  was  she,  the  long-prowed,  scald-swift, 
foremost  ship  of  the  world,  to  wit,  Argo,  with  the  profoundly 
reckless  bright-armoured  Greek  kingfolk  on  board,  as  they  went 
in  quest  of  the  golden  fleece  to  the  land  of  Colchis.  And  when 
they  had  desisted  from  their  rowing,  and  the  sea  was  in  a  calm, 
"  We  heard,"  said  Hypsipyle,  "  the  voice  of  one  man  from  the 
ship,  and  it  was  he  that  was  there,  to  wit,  melodious  Orpheus, 
a  harper,  son  of  Oeager,  with  his  shoulder  against  the  mast  as 
he  made  music  to  the  crew  of  the  ship,  so  that  the  fatigue  of 
the  noble  hosts  in  toiling  at  the  oar  might  be  the  less ;  and  we 
thought  it  probable  that  they  were  the  people  of  Thrace  come 
to  sack  the  isle  of  Lemnos  upon  us. 

"  And  thereupon  arose  a  shouting  and  a  great  tumult  in  the 
houses  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos.  And  after  that  we  went  into  very 
high  large  towers  and  strong  bastions  of  planking  above  the 
city.  And  the  bold  and  shaking  women  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos 
collected  the  hard  missile  stones,  the  long  very  sharp  stakes, 
and  the  heavy  sad  arms  of  their  own  husbands  whom  they  had 
previously  slain,  and  they  seized  their  deep-red  bloody  swords 
in  their  hands,  and  put  their  flaming  foul  linked  corslets  about 
their  bodies,  and  their  beautiful  battle-helmets  on  their  heads. 
And  indeed  we  thought  it  probable  that  it  was  a  huge  hideous 
sea-monster  that  was  there  in  order  to  requite  and  avenge  upon 
us  our  wrongdoing  and  injustice,  and  that  it  was  not  a  well- 
manned  very  beautiful  ship.  But  then  arose  a  withe-twisting 
noisy  wind,  so  that  it  drove  that  ship  the  shot  of  a  long  blue 
arrow  away  from  land  and  shore.  And  then  the  dank  misty 
clouds  of  the  firmament  were  mingled  together,  so  that  there 
was  a  thick  darkness  between  sea  and  land,  and  the  mighty 
125 


E.  24b  6  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  "205a  25 

1965-}  tir  1  co  tocuatis1  na  tonda  trenmora  na  longa  uar  barr  sen...    ^  ' 
[er  ar  E.]  1  uar  uachtar  doib2  -\  co  leictis  dib  sis  in  feacht  n-aill 
co  groan  -j  go  ganem  nglasruad  ar  n-ichtar.    Et  ger-ba  tenda  371 
talchara3  tra  na  trenfir  [sin  Eg.]  rouadar  isiw  luing  si??,  nir-ba 
tualai??,g  ursclaidi  na  hengnoma  iad  isinn  uair  si??  re  met  na  mor- 

i97oainbthi»e4.  Et  robai  a  seolc/;rand  sirfhada  sirmor  na  lui??gi  si?? 
aca  dianscailiud  -j  ac  adradbrisiud  ara  met  -j  ara  roairdi  ac 
tocuail  -j  toirniub5  re  sitgail  na  ssebgaithi  sin  in  uair  si??.  Et 
d&no  robamar-ni  ac  dibrucud6  7  ac  dichur  uaind  na  luingi  sin  do 
leth  aili  co  telcmais  armu  aithgere7  urnochta  in  n-aigid  na 

1975  miled  Bin  A.  in  trenfer  thalchair  Tailemon,  7  Pelias  mac  Aicuis,  379 

I  ^Ercail  mac  AmpitroonZis.    Et  ua  hadual  saethar  na  sarlui??gi  401 
si??  re  hanfi??e8  in  mara  7  re'r9  cathagad-ni  don  leth  araill.    Et 
badar  drem  dona  degsluagaib  si??  ac  dai??gnig??d  -j  ac  diten  a 
lui?)gi  1  scellbolga10  do  sciathaib  ina  ti??ichell,  -j  drem  aili  ac 

i98oteladn  7  ac  tsescad  a  huisom  asa  hicht?ir,  -|  drem  a[c]  cathug- 

hadh  co  calmachroda  osa  ci??d.    Et  rotelcthea  atorra12  (?)  and- 

ain,"  ar  si,  "  cetha  cw???asctha  cruaclarm,  coma  samalta  re  frasaib 

Twx-a^J^s^-    cruaidi  clothnechta13  i?m  aiiisir  gairb  gemridh  na  bera  ri??dgera  ■ 

romora,  7  na  clocha  cruiiidi14  cowdibhraicthi,  -j  na  saighdi  snasta 

1985  sodibraicthi,  7  na  slega  lasarona  langera  trena  'roile  isinn  uair 
sin. 

"  Et  asa  haithli  si??  roergedar  gathana  glanailli  greni  -j  ruith-  394 
nigwd  rosoillsi15,  coma  fornell  ■]  coma  forreill  dui??d  na  slúaigh 
robdar16  isin?i  lui??g.    Et  0  'dchondcamar  iad  ban  samhla  si??, 

1990  rothuitse tar  ar  n-air???  as  ar  lamaib,  -j  tai???c  ar  n-aicned  boeth 
banamail  uadei??  duind    Et  adchondcamar-ni  amh  andsi?i  Peil 
mac  Aicuis,  -\  Tailemon17  mor  mac  Aiacw?s18,  -j  Anathe??s  tend  400 
tomaithmech,  -]  Ifito??  data  deaglamaig.  Et  ba  folhis  osna  sluagaib 
snimacha  si??  archu  eangnwma  in  domuin  .i.  Ercoil  mac  Am-  401 

1995  p^?-?on£is.  Roctenad-sowi  andsi??  each  mbord  -j  each  leth  don 
luifig  asa  ticed  re  fiuchad  na  fergi  firmoire  ac  sseighid19  cusna 
sluagaib.    Et  gid  Iaso/?  mac  Eson20  immorro  ba  luthmar  leidmech  405 

1  Eg.  contoguadis  2  E.  the  a  of  barr  and  evar  seem  a  recent  tampering  with 
MS.  Eg.  in  long  uar  barr  sen  7  uar  uachtar  doib  3  Eg.  talcartba  4  E.  na 
morhainbthine  Eg.  na  haixmnne  B  Eg.  toirnedh  6  Eg.  robadhmarnediubrugud 
7  Eg.  arraa  aitbgera         8  Eg.  hainthfine         9  Eg.  re  ar        10  Eg.  scellbolc  da 

II  Eg.  telach  12  E.  atorra  seems  a  recent  tampering  with  MS.  Eg.  rotbelgtbedha 
adrainn  13  Eg.  clochsecht  u  Eg.  cruaidi  15  Eg.  na  soillsi  16  Eg.  rouoi 
"  Eg.  Talemoin        18  Eg.  Aic-     E.  ^U\f-         "  Eg.  saighin         20  Eg.  Esoin 

126 


THE  THEBAID 

huge  waves  lifted  up  the  ship  above  them,  and  at  another 
time  let  her  sink  down  to  gravel  and  silvery  red  sand  below. 
And  though  those  heroes  that  were  in  that  ship  were  vigorous 
and  resolute,  they  were  incapable  of  defence  or  deeds  of  prowess 
at  that  time  owing  to  the  strength  of  the  great  tempest.  And  the 
exceeding  long  and  great  mast  of  that  ship  was  swiftly  oscillating 
and  nigh  to  breaking  owing  to  its  size  and  stately  height  as  it 
rose  and  fell  before  the  violence  of  that  whirlwind  at  that  time. 
And  we  also  were  shooting  at  and  putting  from  us  that  ship 
from  another  side,  so  that  we  kept  hurling  very  sharp  naked  arms 
against  those  soldiers,  to  wit,  the  resolute  champion  Telamon, 
and  Peleus  son  of  Aeacus,  and  Hercules  son  of  Amphitryon. 
And  vast  was  the  labour  of  that  good  ship  owing  to  the  tempest 
of  the  sea  and  our  fighting  on  the  other  side.  And  some  of  those 
goodly  hosts  were  strengthening  and  defending  their  ship  with 
tortoises  of  shields  around  them,  others  baling  and  emptying 
her  bilge  water  out  of  her  hold,  while  others  fought  boldly  and 
bravely  above  their  heads.  And  confused  showers  of  hard  arms 
were  thrown  by  both  sides  there,  so  that  like  hard  showers  of 
hail  in  a  rough  winter  season  were  the  sharp-edged  huge  darts, 
the  round  easily  hurled  stones,  the  polished  well-shot  arrows, 
and  the  flaming  full-sharp  spears  mingled  with  one  another  at 
that  time. 

"  And  thereafter  bright  and  beautiful  sunbeams  and  a  ruddi- 
ness of  great  light  arose,  so  that  the  hosts  that  were  on  board 
the  ship  became  plain  and  distinct  to  us.  And  when  we  saw 
them  in  that  guise,  our  arms  fell  from  our  hands,  and  our  own 
foolish  feminine  nature  came  to  us.  And  we  saw  in  sooth  there 
Peleus  son  of  Aeacus,  and  great  Telamon  son  of  Ajax,  keen  and 
menacing  Ancaeus,  and  comely  dexterous  Iphitus.  And  dis- 
tinguished above  those  high-bred  hosts  was  the  slaughter-hound 
of  the  world's  prowess,  Hercules  son  of  Amphitryon.  He  used 
to  strain  there  every  plank  and  every  side  of  the  ship  whence 
he  came  with  the  boiling  of  exceeding  rage  as  he  made  for  the 
hosts.  And  also  Jason,  son  of  Aeson,  was  vigorous  and  robust 
127 


E.  24b  49  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  205b  33 

'sin  luing1  sin,  7  Oenidies  mer  mormenmnach,  7  Idas  uallachT  ^' 
allata,  7  Talahus  talchar  tairisi,  7  da  mac  tenda  togaidi  Tindair 

2000  .i.  Castor  -j  Pullux,  7  da  mac  beoda  borrfadhecha  (p.  25)  Boiria 
.i.  Sétiusa  7  Ealiais2,  -|  ba  drem  do  degdainib  na  lunga3  sin  in 
lucht  sin. 

"  Batar  tra  fan  sa?nla  sin  ac  fmsimram  in  mara  7  ac  dibrucun 
in  muir4  uaithib.    Et  da.no  rouai  in  luamairi  fosaich  fireolacb.413 

2005  inti  .i.  Tifis  ac  stiuradh  na  lunga  sin  co  na  leiced  a  badbrisiud  \m 
chairrgib  cendgarba  in  mara  morainbthenaig.  Et  rouadar-so?n 
isinn  eicin  sin,  ceiw  cor-erig  Iason  mac  Eson  -j  craeb  alaind 
olacnraind  ina  laim  i  comartha  sida,  -j  is  i  seic5  robid  i  llaim 
Mopsns,  taisig  da  muntir,  7  robui  ag  iarraid  sida  oraindi. 

2010  "  Acht  chena  nir-ba  miad  re  lucht  na  luingi6  in  raraid  Iason. 
Et  ni  chualamar-ni  acht  fogur  bras  a  gotha7  risin  figaith 
chugaind.  Et  is  andsin  roerigedar  in  coica  trenfher  ua  tendi  -j 
ua  tresi  isin  luing,  7  rogobsad  ruadhramada  romora  'na  lamaib, 
-j    rorseset8    co    fortren    feramail  in  luing   sin    docham   chuain 

2015  caladpuirt.  Et  ba  socharthanacha9  re  silliud  isinn  uair  sin  chena 
gnuisi  gruadso[i]llsi  na  curad  croda  re  fornert  inn  imronia10  7  re 
fiuchud  na  fergi  firmoiri  ad?-acht  i?(tib.  Ba  samail11  lindi  in 
sluag  sin  1  ba  dei12  uaisli  adhartha  tiastais13  do  dindgnaib 
roglana  richid  uan14  t&lmain. 

2020      "Et  is  andsin  adchoncamar15  Teis,  mac  Eig,  mtc  Nephtuin,  431 
ac  erge  asin16  luing  -]   ua  diumsach  in  deglaech  sin  a  haithli 
thogla17  na  cathrach  .i.  Marathon ;  -]  adchondcamar  dano  andsin 
in  righ  uasal  Admet,  -j  adchondcamar  in  cruitire  coelbind  na 
Traigia  .i.  Orfens ;  7  robui  andsin  didm  in  mih'd  Meleager,  mac  436 

2025  rig  na  Calidone,  7  Pelias  mac  Aicuis,  7  lies  mac  Ercail  7  airm  443 
'na  laim. 

"  Cid  tra  acht,"  ar  si18,  "  ro[f]hoslaicidh  li/?di  doirrsi  [ar  Eg.] 
tigead  risna  damaib  sin.    Et  ni  dernaid19  idbarta,  na  suan  na452 
sadailli  acaind  o  romarbsamar  ar  firu  co  hass  na  fuairi20  sin. 

2030  Rogobh  gach  fer  dib  sin  ac  toga  [a  Eg.]  thochmairc  uaindi  in 
1  E.  luga  2  Eg.  Cethusa  7  Calias  3  Eg.  luingi  *  I.  in  mara 

5  E.  7  comartha  ley.  i  c.  Eg.  i  seig  6  Eg.  le  lucht  na  lunga  7  Eg.  bais  a 

gotha  8  Eg.  7  rosrrtnsat  9  Eg.  socarthanach  10  Eg.  an  imruma 

11  Eg.  ua  samail         12  Eg.  ba  in  dei         13  Eg.  tisdis         14  Eg.  righthighi  úar 
18  E.  adchonncamar  16  Eg.  isin  17  Eg.  fhoghla  18  Eg.  Orofeus... 

Ilos...    E.  ar  si  acht  19  Eg.  dernad  20  Eg.  huaire 

128 


THE  THEBAID 

in  that  ship,  and  Oenides  reckless  and  high-spirited,  and  Idas 
gallant  and  renowned,  and  Talaus  resolute  and  steadfast,  and 
two  keen  and  chosen  sons  of  Tyndareus,  to  wit,  Castor  and 
Pollux,  and  two  lively  furious  sons  of  Boreas,  Zetes  and  Calais, 
and  those  were  some  of  the  goodly  men  of  that  ship. 

"  Now  they  continued  in  that  manner  in  a  spray  rowing  of 
the  sea,  and  in  dashing  the  drift  from  them.  And  also  the 
composed  and  very  skilful  pilot  was  on  board,  to  wit,  Tiphys, 
steering  that  ship,  so  as  not  to  let  her  be  wrecked  on  the  rough- 
headed  rocks  of  the  tempestuous  sea.  And  they  remained  in 
that  extremity,  till  uprose  Jason,  son  of  Aeson,  with  a  beautiful 
olive-branch  in  his  hand  as  a  sign  of  peace — and  it  used  to  be 
in  the  hand  of  Mopsus,  leader  of  his  people — and  he  was  asking 
peace  from  us. 

"  Howbeit,  what  Jason  said  had  no  weight  with  the  crew  of 
the  ship.  And  we  heard  nothing  save  the  strident  sound  of  his 
voice  coming  to  us  against  the  wind.  And  then  uprose  fifty  of 
the  keenest  and  strongest  champions  in  the  ship,  and  grasped 
the  huge  red  oars  in  their  hands,  and  they  rowed  that  ship 
boldly  manly  to  the  haven  of  a  shore  harbour.  Very  lovely  to  look 
upon  at  that  particular  time  were  the  bright-cheeked  counten- 
ances of  those  hardy  heroes  owing  to  the  violence  of  the  rowing 
and  owing  to  the  boiling  of  the  very  great  rage  that  arose  in 
them.  That  host  seemed  to  us  as  if  they  were  noble  worshipful 
gods  that  should  go  to  the  very  bright  citadels  of  heaven  from 
the  earth. 

"  And  there  we  saw  Theseus,  son  of  Aegeus,  son  of  Neptune, 
rising  out  of  the  ship,  and  proud  was  that  good  hero  after  the 
sacking  of  the  city,  to  wit,  Marathon  (sic) ;  and  we  also  saw 
there  the  noble  king  Admetus,  and  the  melodious  harper  of 
Thrace,  to  wit,  Orpheus ;  and  there  also  was  the  soldier  Meleager, 
son  of  the  king  of  Calydon,  and  Peleus  son  of  Aeacus,  and 
Hyllus  son  of  Hercules  with  arms  in  his  hand. 

"  Well,"  said  she,  "  the  doors  of  our  houses  were  opened  by  us 

to  those  bands.    And  no  sacrifices  had  been  offered,  no  sleep  or 

rest  enjoyed  by  us  since  we  slew  our  men  until  that  hour.    And 

each  man  of  them  began  choosing  whom  to  woo  from  among 

c  1 29  9 


E.  25a  37  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  206b  4 

lin  robamar1.    Acht  cheana  buigim-se  na  del  nar-ua  cedugwd  na    ^e 
comairli    dam    uadein    fes  re   hlason  isi?in  aidchi   sin,  ger-ua  456 
sochraid  socharthanach  re   mnaib2  aili   é.    Et  rouatar-siim  co 
cend  mbliad??a  comlai»e  acaiiid  isan  indsi  sin,  cen  co  rucait 

2035  clanda  suarca  socenelacha  daib.    Et  rucus-[s]a  da  mac  andsin  464 
do  Iason   mac  Esoin  .i.  Toas  7  Eunios3  a  n-anmana7a.    Acht* 
chena  ni  fhetar  a  n-ord  na  a  n-aidhid5,  uair  is  fichi  hliadan  co 
hoes  na  fuairi-sea6  o  rus-facus  aca  n-aileamain7  -j  'ga  n-altrom 
acin  rigain  lamgil  ac  Lichasta8.    Et  i  cind  na  hliadna  sin  tra 

2040'rogob  Iaso??  a[g]  g?^esacht  a  munti?-e  'man  n-i??dsi  d'  [fhjacuail, 

o  'dchondairc   in    muir  co  tai    tegligi9.    Et   ge    ragell-SM/m... 

andsi»  techt  aris  dom  i??dsaigi-sea  co  hindis  Lenii??,ni  racomaill 

ani  sin  (col.  /3).  477 

"  Cid  tra  acht  o  raairig  Tifis,  luamairi  na  luingi  si??,  ruithne 

2045  grnie  do  glansoillsigud,  rotrellaim10  tac/mr  a  lui/?gi,  7  rocho??ier- 
gedar  na  sluaig,  7  rogob  Iason  a  armo  re11  each  andsi??,  7  rofac-  484 
badar  amlaid  sin  in  i?idsi.    Robamar-ni  'ga  feithem  7  'ga  fegaircsi, 
cem12  co  ndechaid  ar  seg  asar  suilib  'ga  sith[sh]ellad13. 

"  Asa  haithli  si??  tra  adchualadar14  mna  iwdsi  Lemi??.  m'  athair-  4S7 

2050  sea  do  beth  i  rigi  indsi  -Chio,  indsi  dearbrathar  do  .i.  Cuuis15  mic 
Baich  ;  -|  ba  hole  leo-s??,?n  si??  gan  a  marbad  -j  gan  a  mudugtid" 
•dam-sa,  amal  romarbsad  fei?i  afir-ja  n-aithrecha,  7  rociwdead 
leo  mo  marbad-sa  i??d17.  0  'tchuala-sa18  si??  immorro,"  ar  si, 
"  roelus  mo  enwr19  uaithib  re  toeb  in  mara ;  7  o  na  fuarus20  nech 

2055  re  setugwd  sliged  dam  d'  i/?dsaigid  m'  athar  .i.  Toaint,  tucad21 
me  i  ndairi  -j  i  ndochraidi  dochum  bar  c?-ichi-si22,  a  G?'ecu." 

Et  o  rabai  Ipsipile  amlaidh  si??  a[c]  co???radh  risi?i  rig  n-uasal 
re  hAdraist  7 23  ni  thuc  da  haire  a  daltan  dathalai?ul  da  [f'hjacbail24  501 
isin  choilleigh  di  heis.    Et  intan  dachuaidh  d'  iarraid   ui[s]ce 

2o6orisna  Grecaib,  7  0  rafhacaib-si  immorro  in  mac  bee  isi?i25,  rothuit 
a  suan  remcotalta  air26  ar  lar  i?id  [fhjeoir  7  in  airthi??d27.    Et  in 

1  Eg.  rouadhmar      2  Eg.  feis  la... la  mnaibh      3  Eg.  Eumos      *  Eg.  Acht  ni 
5  Eg.  oigbedha  6  Eg.  huaire  7  Eg.  gan  oileamain  8  Eg.  laiwghil  ic 

Iocasta        9  I.  teglidi   Eg.  in  muir  co  teigblú?/ti         10  Eg.  ruithniugudh  greine 
glansoillsi  do  techt  rotrealaim  n  Eg.  ria  12  Eg.  innisi  sin  rouadmar-ne 

.ga  fegadh  cen         13  Eg.  sitksilW         14  Eg.  dochualamair-ne         15  Eg.  Cius 
16  E.  mugugud  17  Eg.  firu...inti  18  Eg.  rochualusa  19  Eg.  roelos 

am  BBnar  20  Eg.  0  nach  fhuarus  21  Eg.  7  tucadh  22  Eg.  crich-si 

23  Eg.  out.  7       24  Eg.  dfagbail       25  Eg.  bee  sin       26  Eg.  fair      27  Eg.  oirtbind 

130 


THE  THEBAID 

all  there  were  of  us.  Yet  I  swear  by  the  gods  there  was  no 
consent  or  plan  on  my  own  part  to  marry  Jason  that  night, 
though  he  was  comely  and  lovely  to  other  women.  And  they 
remained  with  us  to  the  end  of  an  entire  year  in  that  island, 
till  fine  well-born  children  were  born  to  them.  And  I  bore  there 
to  Jason  son  of  Aeson  two  sons,  to  wit,  Thoas  and  Euneos  are 
their  names.  Yet  I  know  not  their  rank  or  their  fate,  for  it  is 
twenty  years  now  since  I  left  them  to  be  reared  and  nurtured 
with  the  white-handed  queen  Lycaste.  Now  at  the  end  of  that 
year  Jason  began  to  press  his  people  about  leaving  the  island, 
when  he  saw  the  sea  silent  and  calm.  And  though  he  promised 
to  come  again  to  me  in  the  isle  of  Lemnos,  he  did  not  keep  that 
promise. 

"  Well,  when  Tiphys,  pilot  of  that  ship,  perceived  that  the 
sun-rays  shone  bright,  he  got  readynio  shi^VgPéw,  and  the  hosts 
arose  together,  and  Jason  took  his  weapons  before  everyone 
there,  and  thus  they  left  the  island.  We  remained  waiting  for 
them  and  keenly  gazing  for  them,  till  our  moisture  went  from 
our  eyes  with  continual  looking  for  them. 

"  Now  thereafter  the  women  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos  heard  that 
my  father  was  in  the  kingship  of  the  isle  of  Chios,  the  isle  of 
his  brother,  to  wit,  Chios,  son  of  Bacchus ;  and  they  resented  it 
that  he  had  not  been  slain  and  destroyed  by  me,  as  they  them- 
selves had  slain  their  husbands  and  their  fathers,  and  it  was 
decided  by  them  that  I  should  be  slain  therefor.  When  I  heard 
that,  however,"  said  she,  "  I  escaped  from  them  alone  to  the  sea 
side  ;  and  when  I  found  no  one  to  show  me  the  way  to  my  father 
Thoas,  I  was  brought  in  bondage  and  in  distress  unto  your 
territory,  O  Greeks." 

When  Hypsipyle  was  thus  conversing  with  the  noble  king 
Adrastus,  it  escaped  her  notice  that  her  fair  and  beautiful 
fosterling  was  left  behind  her  in  the  wood.  And  when  she  went 
to  search  for  water  with  the  Greeks,  and  therefore  left  that 
little  boy  there,  his  erewhile  drowsy  slumber  fell  upon  him  in 
the  midst  of  the  grass  and  the  oats.  And  while  he  was  there, 
1 3 1  9—2 


E.  25b  24  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  207a  4 

am   robai    anrfsi»,    tame    nathair1    adhuathmar    urbadacA    da    * 
indsaigid.    Is  amlaidh  robai  i[n]  nathair1  sin.  -j2  ruisc  diraora 
dubglasa  'na3  ceand  co  n-uanfad  neimi.    Ba  glomar  a  crais4  co  509 

2065  tri  tengthaib  tendtidi  ac  taidligud  ima5  carbad  -j  co  tri 
srethaib  d'[fh]iaclaib  croma  cruadgera  ina  cind.  Et  ua  cois- 
sechartha6  du  Ioib  in  nathair  sin,  -j  is  and  rocatlad  fecht  and  i 
timchull  na  terapall  sin  cseimchoiserca  bidís7  i  comfhochraib  di. 
Et  rogluaiseth-si  na  railgi  romora  asa  n-ait  -]  asa  n-inad  *j  na 

2o7oclacha  co/nthenda  a  tendtaib  talman8  intan  rocoraerged9.    Et 
tainic  rompi  d'  iarraidh  m'sci  co  dian  -j  co  dasachtach  -j  a  craes 
urgranda   oslaicthi   uirri   ag  sugud  gaithi  aidhoir10  in  darna 
fecht,  in  feacht  aili  immorro  ac  ithi  in  [fhjeoir  -]  inn  airthi?id  525 
do  chase  a  hithad.    Et  rus-bean  bem11  da  heirr  gan  airigitd12  di 

2075  don  maccsem  sin,  co  r»s-facaib  cen  aninain.    O  'tchualaig  tra  544 
Ipsifile  scret  in  nw'c  aca  marbad,  roerich  da  -iarraid,  -]  robai  'ga 
gairm.    O  na13  fuair  he  -j  atchondairc  in  nathraig,  roiacht  -\  roeig 
co  cualadar  Greic  uili  golgairi  na  hiagine.    Is  andsin  rogres- 
estair14  rig  oc  na  hArcaidi  .i.  Partanapeiis,  a  eocho  fon  egiom15  556 

2080  ar  na  radh  d'  Adhraist  don  airdrig  ris.    Et  o  'tchualaich  fochond16 
in  guba,  romdis  da  chach ;  -\  o  raindis,  rogobh  Ipomedon  (p.  26)  560 
[ard    Eg.]   airegda    cairrig   comthruira   comnert17   a    tenátaib 
talman18  -\  tuc  ro  n-urchair  d'  indsaigid  na  nathrach.    Acht  chena 
ni  derna  acht  scenm   disi  sin.    Tanic  immorro  asa  haithli  sin 

2085  Capanens  ar  ci?id  co/iaire  di,  -j  gae  suainmech19  sodibraicthi  ina 
laim,  -j  is  ed  roraid  ria  :  "  Ni  ba  hinand,"  ar  se,  "  int  urchar  o 
chianaib.    Ni  [fh]uil20  ac21  deib  nime  a  thairmeasc  imam-sa22  568 
gan  du23  marbad  dam."   Et  rodibraic  in  faga  di  'na  diaid  sin,  co 
roben  in  craisech  [di  Eg.],  co  rotregdastar  a  hucht  -j  a  hindi,  co 

209otorchair  marb  cen  anmai».  Ba  ferg  immorro  la  hloib  an?ii  sin 
.i.  [an  Eg.]  nathair  do  marbad  do  Chapanei<s,  -]  ro  trial  1  saegnen 
tened  do  lecud24  da  indsaigid  andsi/i,  1  ged  ed  rothairmisc  gussin 
cath25  ar  n-uair. 

1  Eg.  naitbir       2  Eg.  om.  7       3  Eg.  ina       4  Eg.  glormar  craes       B  Eg.  ina 
6  Eg.  cruaidhgera  ina  cend  7  ua  cuserca  7  Eg.  caem  cusrecta  no-bidis 

8  E.  talmain    Eg.  taluan  9  Eg.  roregad  10  Eg.  sudugud  gaithi  7  seoir 

11  Eg.  beim  12  Eg.  can  airiugud  13  Eg.  nach  14  Eg.  rogresatar 

15  Eg.  eigem       16  Eg.  fochain      17  Eg.  ooimnert      18  Eg.  taluan      19  Eg.  gai 
suainmeacha  20  Eg.  ni  fuil  21  Eg.  ac  na  22  Eg.  umumsa 

23  Eg.  can  do         2i  Eg.  leigen         2S  I.  each     E.  gussin  cath     Eg.  gusan  cath 

132 


THE  THEBAID 

a  horrible  baleful  serpent  came  towards  him.  That  serpent  was 
such  that  very  large  dark-green  eyes  were  in  its  head  with  a  foam 
of  poison.  The  muzzle  of  its  gullet  was  with  three  fiery  tongues 
gleaming  about  its  lower  jaw,  and  three  rows  of  crooked,  hard 
and  sharp  teeth  in  its  head.  That  serpent  was  sacred  to  Jove 
and  there  it  used  to  sleep  at  times  round  about  those  beautiful 
consecrated  temples  that  were  near  it.  And  it  used  to  move  the 
huge  oaks  from  their  place  and  position  and  the  firm  stones 
from  their  earth -fastnesses  when  it  arose.  And  it  came  forward 
in  search  of  water  keenly  madly  with  its  hideous  gullet  opened 
wide,  at  one  time  sucking  in  a  breeze  of  air,  at  another  however 
eating  the  grass  and  oats  to  quench  its  thirst.  And,  all  unknown 
to  it,  it  struck  that  young  boy  with  a  stroke  of  its  tail,  and  left 
him  lifeless. 

Now  when  Hypsipyle  heard  the  scream  of  the  dying  boy,  she 
arose  to  seek  him,  and  continued  to  call  him.  Since  she  did  not 
find  him  but  saw  the  serpent,  she  shrieked  and  cried  till  all  the 
Greeks  heard  the  maiden's  weeping.  Then  the  young  king  of 
Arcadia,  to  wit,  Parthenopaeus,  urged  his  horses  towards  the  cry, 
after  he  had  been  told  by  Adrastus  the  high-king.  And  when 
he  had  heard  the  reason  for  the  lamentation,  he  told  the  others ; 
and  when  he  had  done  so,  lofty  splendid  Hippomedon  took  a  well- 
proportioned  close-grained  stone  from  its  earth-fastnesses,  and 
made  a  cast  of  a  throw  at  the  serpent.  Yet  that  only  caused  it  to 
start.  But  after  that  Capaneus  came  to  encounter  it  with  a  thonged 
well-casting  spear  in  his  hand,  and  said  to  it :  "  The  cast  just  now 
will  not  be  similar,"  said  he.  "The  gods  of  heaven  cannot  prevent 
my  slaying  thee."  And  he  hurled  the  javelin  at  it  after  that,  so 
that  the  dart  struck  it  and  pierced  its  breast  and  entrails,  and 
it  fell  dead  and  lifeless.  Jove,  however,  was  wroth  at  that  thing, 
to  wit,  that  the  serpent  was  slain  by  Capaneus,  and  he  made 
ready  to  launch  a  fiery  thunderbolt  at  him  there,  and  yet  again 
in  turn  he  restrained  himself  from  that. 
133 


E.  26a  15  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  2o7b  4 

Imthwsa  Ipsifile  intan  robui  ac  iarraid  in  maccaim,  adchon-     *  ' 

2095  dairc  in  fer  frasach  forderg  d'fuil1  na  naiden  -j  tainic  da  indsaigid  590 
co  dubach  dian  domenmnach,  -j  robui  ac  pocad  in  mic.     Acht  596 
chena  rasaeed2  a  delb  -\  a  dath  isirai  uair  sin  cu  nar-fhurusa 
aichni3  a  chuirp  arna  crwadledrad  o  [dh]riuch  nemi4  na  nathrach. 
Et  is  amlaid   robai-si   'na  timchell   anclsin,  amal  bis5  ethaid 

2ioofoluai??meach  im  net  ar  na  choll6  do  nathraig7  impi ;  -\  rogab 
ina  hucht  he.    Rochomglan  crechta  a  chnis  da  fult  fhata  fhira-  605 
lai/id,  -j  tuc  a  faid8  firguil  os  aird,  -j  is  ed  roraid  :  "  Truag  sin,  a  609 
Arsemaris9  imnaiii,"  ar  si,  "is  tu  [ua  tocha  lium  -j  Eg.]  ba  clano7 
dam-sa  dar  eis  mo  mac,  -j  ua  comdiíígnad10  dar  eis  m'  atharda. 

2105  Et  a  mtc,"  ar  si,  "caidi  in  gnuis  glan  graadalai/;d  -j  na  briathra 
got[h]a-gairechtachau  batar  let,  na  tuictis12  dseini  aili  acht  mad  615 
misi  re  sirchlechtad  ?   Uch  tra  is  truag  in  turns  dochuadus-[s]a13 
uait  da^a-dermaitnis  tu.    Et,  a  Grecu,"  ar  si,  "  marbaid-si  misi, 
co  na14  faiciur  athair  in  rm'c-sea  .i.   Ligurgus,  •]  co  na15  faiciur  a  630 

2iiomathair  .i.  Eruididse16,  uair  isam  bandama  di  d'eis17  a  meic  do 
milliud  acum;  -j  is  taisci  tra  aidlecar18  misi  na  daber  a  mac  ban19  636 
samlaid-sea  'na  hucht." 

Atclos  hnmorro  na  scela  sin  ba  chetoir  co  tigib  lethna  Ian-  638 
mora  iiigurguis20  .i.  athair  in  meic.    Et  is  amlaid  robai  seic  edon 

2ii5ar  n[d]enom  edport21  i  sleb  Peris,  -]  is  ed  roraided  ris  andsin,  640 
comad  [d]a  muntir  romiirfithea  in  cetdui??e  do  G?-ecaib  ar  in  647 
cathiig?<d  Tiauanda.    Is  de  si?i  tanic-seom  co  toirrsech  tindesnach 
dochu?/i  na  sluag  o  'tchualaig  na  stucu  coema  comairic  aca  senm. 
Ipsifile  hnmorro  o  rabui  -\  an  mac  marb  aca  imarchor  aici,  is 

2120  and22  dorala  a  mathair  di  'na  haigid  -j  airechta  cend-ca3ma  corp-  651 
glana  do  mnaib  'na  farrad  -j  dirmanda  degsluaig  a[c]  csei??iud  652 
(col.  yS)  in  rm'c  sin.    Ligwrgus23  immorro  ar  ferg  -j  ar  fualafig 
dachuaid  in  seel  si?i  do,  -j   tanic   remi   co  dian  dasachtach,  -j 
adbei-t :  "Caide,"  ar  se,  "in  bean  i  roibi24  mo  mac-sa  [na  Eg.]  657 

1  Eg.  7  adconnairc    E.  d'fhuil  margin  2  Eg.  rosoadh  3  Eg.  aithni 

4  Eg.  cruaidhletrudh  o  driuch  nemhi       5  Eg.  uis      6  Eg.  uma  net  ar  na  choill 
7  Eg.  nathraigh     E.  nathraid  8  E.  faig    Eg.  faidh  9  Eg.  Ersimairis- 

10  Eg.  coimdi»gnadh  n  Eg.  gotagairechtach  12  Eg.  nach  tuicdis 

13  Eg.  dochuadhus  14  Eg.  co  nach  1S  Eg.  Ligurus  7  connach 

16  Eg.  Eruidisi  17  Eg.  banííarna-sa  d'es  18  Eg.  titsca  tra  adhlncar 

19  Eg.  uan  M  Eg.  Ligurius  21  Eg.  sideg  it«  i[a]r  ndenum  idlipurta 

22  Eg.  andsin  23  Eg.  Ligurius  24  Eg.  aca  roibhi 

134 


THE  THEBAID 

As  to  Hypsipyle,  whilst  she  was  seeking  the  boy,  she  beheld 
the  grass  bedewed  and  crimson  with  the  infant's  blood,  and  she 
came  to  him  sadly,  eagerly,  dejectedly,  and  continued  to  kiss 
the  boy.  Yet  his  form  and  hue  were  changed  at  that  time,  so 
that  it  was  not  easy  to  recognise  his  body  after  its  cruel  mangling 
by  the  activity  of  the  serpent's  venom.  And  thus  did  she  remain 
about  him  there,  like  a  bird  fluttering  about  a  nest  after  it  has 
been  destroyed  about  her  by  a  serpent ;  and  she  took  him  into 
her  bosom.  She  cleansed  the  wounds  of  his  skin  with  her  long 
and  very  beautiful  hair,  and  she  lifted  up  her  cry  of  true  weeping, 
and  this  is  what  she  said  :  "  Sad  is  that,  O  beloved  Archemorus," 
said  she,  "thou  wert  dearest  to  me,  and  a  child  to  me  after  the 
loss  of  my  sons,  and  a  comfort  after  the  loss  of  my  fatherland. 
And  son,"  said  she,  "  where  is  the  clear  bright-cheeked  counten- 
ance and  the  laughing-voiced  words  that  were  thine,  that  no 
other  mortals  could  understand  save  me  by  constant  custom? 
Now  alas !  sad  is  the  journey  whereon  I  went  from  thee  when 
I  forgot  thee.  And  Greeks,"  said  she,  "  slay  me  that  I  may  not 
see  this  boy's  father  Lycurgus,  or  his  mother  Eurydice,  for  I  am 
her  foe  after  her  son's  being  destroyed  in  my  keeping;  and 
indeed  sooner  may  I  be  buried  than  place  her  son  like  this  in 
her  bosom." 

But  these  tidingswere  heard  immediately  at  the  broad  spacious 
houses  of  Lycurgus,  that  boy's  father.  And  thus  he  was,  even 
after  offering  sacrifices  in  mount  Perses ;  and  this  was  told  him 
there  that  the  first  man  that  would  be  slain  by  Greeks  in 
the  Theban  war  would  be  of  his  people.  Hence  he  came  sadly 
and  hastily  unto  the  hosts,  when  he  heard  the  beautiful  war- 
trumpets  sounding.   . 

Now  as  for  Hypsipyle  when  she  was  continuing  to  carry  the 
dead  boy  about  with  her,  his  mother  met  her  face  to  face  with 
fair-headed  bright-bodied  bands  of  women  in  her  train,  and 
multitudes  of  a  goodly  host  mourning  that  boy.  As  for  Lycurgus, 
however,  he  was  in  wrath  and  frenzy  when  that  tale  came  to 
him ;  and  he  came  forward  impetuously  and  madly,  and  said : 
"  What,"  said  he,  "is  the  woman  in  whose  hand  my  son  was  ? 

135 


E.  26b  4  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  208*  7 

2125  laim?  -]  tabraid  cncum,  a  fhiru,"  ar  se,  "in  colaig  confadaig  co    ^e 
romarbar  hi  i  cinta  mo  meic."   Et  [is  Eg.]  cnma  roraid  sin  7  661 
tame  da  hindsaigid,  7  claideb1  urnocht  na  lai??i.    Is  andsi/i  tuc 
in  trenfer  natharda  nemlesc  .i.  Tid  mac  Oeni*i.sa10  in  sciath  ar 
scath  na  hi»gi?ie,  -\  adbe?'t :  "  A  duni  dasachtaich,"  ar  se,  "  leic  663 

2130  [a]  senur  in  migni?n  triallai."     Et  doriachtadar  asa  haithli  sin 
Capanews  7  Ipamedon  7   Partonopeus  mac  Eremandtim  -j   a  664 
claidbi2  nochta  'na  lamaib  co  roiadsad  im  higurgus3  da  marbad 
1  da  mudugitd,  da  saraiged  iad  'man4  i??.gi??.    Is  andsin  rocower- 
gedar  munter  lAgurguis  do  glia[i]d5  re  Grecaib,  7  robui  int 

2i35ardrig  Adraist  'ga  n-astad  7  'ga   n-ii-rdegail6.    Atbert   [dojno 
Ampiaruss  in  sacart :  "Leicid  as,  a  fhiru,"  ar  se,  "  uar  rich  7  uar  669 
ngliaid7,  uair  is  f&cus  uar8  coibnes  7  uar  cairdeas."    Nir-ua  áil9 
tra  re  Tid,  mac  Oeniwsa10,  inn  irgail  do  thairmesc,  -j  is  ed  roraid: 
"  Is  dana11  dit,  a  luigurguis15,"  ar  se,  "  inni  triallai  .i.  in  ben  do 

2140  marbad  ar  ar  fsesum  7  ar  ar  comairci12.    Acht  is  lor  dit  bith13  i 
socra  -j  i  sadaili  ac  cainiud  do  mic  d'ar  n-eis-ne  cein  bem14  ac  679 
tachar  risna  Tiauandaib."    Rofhrecair  tra  higurgus15  dósom,  -j  is 
ead  roraid  :  "  Ni  fheadar-sa16  am,"  ar  se,  "  comad  buidni  bidbad  681 
do  thogail  Teibi  sib.    Et  mas  ead  as  ail  lib  tra,  millid17  misi, 

2145  uair  ni  fhuilim  lin  tachair  daib."    Et  is  amlaid  roui-sium  aca 
rad  sin  [-]  Eg.]  miru??  7  aninni18  mor  aici.    Et  robui  a[c]  fegad19  690 
a  cathrach  uad,  cu  cualadar  comorad  catha  -\  irgaili  isin  cathraig 
thall.    Is  iad  rohi?idised  do   beth   andsin   marcsluag   gasraidi 
Gi^ec  ac  inrud  in  tigi  sin  Ligurguis20,  uair  is  ed  rohi«dised  isi?i 

2i5odu??ad    uile   -j    ecora   do   denam   do    higurgus   i   muich   risna 
sluagaib.    Et  roergedar  de  sidi21  na  Gm'c22  rouadar  thall  isi?i  695 
baili  •]   aithindeda  luatha  lasamna  'na  lamaib  do  loscud  tigi 
Lignrgm's23  7  da  breith  cona  n-altoraib24  ailli  adartha  leo25  i 
ndairi  7  i  ndochur26.    Ba  buaidirthi  tra  tegdais27  in  trenfhir  sin  o 

2155  gul  7  o  gair  ban  7  mac  aca  milliud  inti.    Is  andsi?i  immorro 

1  Eg.  claidim         2  Eg.  claidme         3  Eg.  um  Ligurius         4  E.  mugugud... 
Eg.  saeraighedh  iat  uan  6  Eg.  Ligurius  do  gliadb  6  Eg.  'ga  fasiadh 

E.  n-irrdedail  '  Eg.  gliadh  8  E.  mar  9  Eg.  caradrus  Nir  furail 

10  E.  Oenius  n  Eg.  dona  12  Eg.  comaircne  13  Eg.  a  beth 

14  Eg.  gen  biam         16  Eg.  Ligurius         16  Eg.  fitir  sa         17  Eg.  Teue... millid 
E.  millig  18  Eg.  radba...aininne  19  Eg.  fegain  20  Eg.  Ligurius 

21  Eg.  de  sidhen       22  Eg.  Grecaidb        M  Eg.  Ligurius        24  Eg.  co  baltoraibh 
25  Eg.  ailli  ordha  leo  16  Eg.  a  ndochraidi  27  Eg.  buadertha...thegdais 

136 


THE  THEBAID 

and  give  ye  over  to  me,  0  men,"  said  he,  "the  sinful  furious  one 
that  she  may  be  slain  for  the  guilt  to  my  son."  And  the  moment 
he  said  that,  he  approached  her  with  a  drawn  sword  in  his  hand. 
Then  the  serpentine  tireless  hero,  to  wit,  Tydeus  son  of  Oeneus, 
put  his  shield  to  protect  the  maiden,  and  said :  "  Madman,"  said 
he,  "  leave  alone  the  misdeed  you  attempt."  And  after  that 
there  arrived  Capaneus,  Hippomedon,  and  Parthenopaeus  son  of 
Erymanthus,  with  their  drawn  swords  in  their  hands,  and  they 
closed  round  Lycurgus  to  slay  and  destroy  him,  if  he  should 
use  violence  to  them  with  regard  to  the  maiden.  Then  arose 
Lycurgus'  people  to  do  battle  with  Greeks,  and  the  high-king 
Adrastus  was  restraining  and  keeping  them  apart.  Amphftiraus, 
the  priest,  also  said :  "  Leave  off,  O  men,"  said  he,  "  your  fury 
and  your  fighting,  for  close  is  your  affinity  and  relationship." 
Now  Tydeus,  son  of  Oeneus:  did  not  wish  to  hinder  the  strife, 
and  this  is  what  he  said :  "  What  you  attempt  is  bold  of  you, 
Lycurgus,"  said  he,  "  to  wit,  to  kill  the  woman  under  our  safe- 
guard and  protection.  But  it  is  enough  for  you  to  remain 
behind  us  in  ease  and  quiet,  weeping  for  your  son,  while  we  are 
contending  with  the  Thebans."  Now  Lycurgus  answered  him, 
and  this  is  what  he  said :  "  Indeed  I  did  not  know,"  said  he, 
"  that  ye  were  troops  of  foes  to  sack  Thebes.  And  if  ye  will 
then,  destroy  me ;  for  I  am  not  in  numbers  to  meet  you."  And 
thus  was  he  as  he  said  that,  cherishing  great  malice  and  anger. 
And  he  continued  looking  forth  at  his  city,  till  he  heard  the 
gathering  of  battle  and  strife  over  in  the  city.  There  were 
reported  to  be  there  cavalry  of  a  picked  body  of  Greeks  sacking 
that  house  of  Lycurgus,  for  that  was  reported  in  the  stronghold 
that  evils  and  acts  of  injustice  had  been  done  to  the  hosts 
without  by  Lycurgus.  And  thereupon  the  Greeks  who  were  over 
in  the  city  arose  with  quick  and  flaming  torches  in  their  hands 
to  burn  Lycurgus'  house,  and  to  bear  him  away  with  them 
along  with  their  beautiful  altars  for  worship  into  bondage  and 
distress.  The  house  of  that  hero  indeed  was  troubled  with 
weeping  and  shrill  crying  of  women  and  children  being  destroyed 

137 


E.  26b  47  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  208b  u 

tanic   in   ri    uasal    Adraist,  -j   tuargaib   Ipsifile  i   fiadnaisi  inThveb' 
t[s]luaig,  -|  adbert:  "Trsetar  uar  ferga  -j  uar  ficha1,  a  firu,"  ar 
se,  "  7  na  dentar  lib  olc  Ligurguis11 ;  uair  ac  seo  in3  bean  tuc  int  703 
uisci  daib,  -j  si  slan  gan  crecht[n]uchud3."    (p.  27)  Ba  he  tret 

2i6osamail  [in  tjsluaig  G?'<?c4  in  tan  sin  in  muir  acgarb  anbthenach  704 
1  na  ggetha  garba  gat[s]nimacha  gatmi5  'ga  ewmase  -j  'ca  com- 
buaidred  gu  n-udcith  anfad6  garb   gemreta   in   lear  longach 
lanadbul  as  each  aird,  cem  co  nn-eirig7  in  ri  uasal  onorach  i. 
Nephtui?i,  co  cuireand   ina  tast    -j  ana    teigli8   hi.    Et  antan 

2i65robadar   Greic9    fan   samla   sin,    is   andsin    tangadar   da    mac 
Ipsiphile  -j  lasoin  mi'c  Eso[i]n10  o  inis  Lemi?i  a  ndiaid  a  mathar  713 
co  tech  Ligurguis11.    Et  rohi/idised  do  Ligurgus11  in  dias  [s]m  do 
thorachtai?i  da  thig  .i.  da  mac  Ipsifile.    Et  tangadar  ua  chetoir  i 
fortacht  -j  i  forithin  Ligurguis11  gan  fhis  -j  gan  aichne  doib.    Et  o 

2170'tchualadar  imrad  indsi12  hemin  -j  Ipsifile  ingme  Toaint,  ras- 
cailset  na  sluaga  sarechtacha,  cei?i  co  rangadar  airm  a  roibi  a  720 
mathair,  -j  cor-iadsad  a  lama  luathglasta13  iwipi.    0  'tchondairc-si  725 
immorro  erred  -j  i»dt[s]amail  a  n-athar  ina14  sciathaib  coema 
commora  -\  a  airm15  urnochta  ina  lamaib,  ro[t]hoit-si  ana'siw  co 

2175  hanband  eserit16  re  romet  na  failti  rogob  ac  faicsiii  na  mac17  sin, 
1  r%5-snigestar18  f?-asa  diana  der  dar  grwadib  di. 

Na  Greic  immorro  roleigsedar19  a  ferga  re  lar20,  -j  rolabair  in  732 
rigsacart  uasal  Ampiarcww,  -j  is  ed  roraid :  "Eistet21  rim-sa,  [a] 
gasrada  Grec  -\  Ligurgzm11,  co  roi/idisiur  daib  a  n-ebairt  dea22 

2180  na  faistine  .i.  Apaill  rium  co  buigbed23  sibsi,  a  Grecu,  na  hairdi 
urbada-sa24  ar  cse  uar  conairi  ac  techt  in  twrisa25,  conid  airi  sin  is 
choir  daib  uar  ferga  da  thairmesc  ~\  uar  n-air?ii  do  chur  uaib 
•j  idbarta  uaisli  imdai  -\  cluicheda  suarca  subacha  i  n-onoir  in 
mic  mairb-sea  .i.  Arsemair  nn'c  Ligui'ig  co  mairet26  sin  co  forceand  739 

2i85ssegail  -j  co  dered  in  domuin.    Uair  ni  ferr  do-sum  co?7ishfegul 

1  Eg.  fercc  7  uar  fich         2  Eg.  so  in         3  Eg.  crechtnugud         4  Eg.  Greca 
6  Eg.  ainbhrinach  7  na  gata  garbha  gidsnimacha  gatme  6  Eg.  co  n-adhcith 

anfudh         7  Eg.,  cor-eirig         8  Eg.  teoli         9  Eg.  Grecaidh         10  Eg.  lasoin 
rnic  Esoin  n  Eg.  Ligurius  12  E.  in«si?i  13  Eg.  gur-iadbsat  a  lama 

luathgasta  14  Eg.  intsamlacbta  in  atbar  isna  15  Eg.  a  nn-airm 

16  Eg.  eiseirt  l7  Eg.  mac  bi  18  E.  rusnigestar  Eg.  rosnighestar 

19  Eg.  Grecaidb  v  roleicistar  20  Eg.  ar.lar  21  Eg.  Eistidh 

22  Eg.  a  nd-ebairt  dei  23  Eg.  iuighedh  24  Eg.  hairdhena  úiúadacha 

25  Eg.  sa  turus[s]a  26  Eg.  Arsemaris  mic  Ligurius  co  mairend  7  co  mairfed 

138 


THE  THEBAID 

therein.  Then,  however,  came  the  noble  king  Adrastus,  and 
raised  up  Hypsipyle  in  presence  of  the  host,  and  said  :  "  Let 
your  fits  of  wrath  and  fury  be  abated,  O  men,"  said  he,  "  and 
let  no  evil  be  done  to  Lycurgus  by  you ;  for  here  is  the  woman, 
who  gave  you  the  water,  safe  and  unwounded."  Now  the  appear- 
ance of  the  Greek  host  at  that  time  was  like  a  wild  and 
strong  sea  with  the  rough  withe-twisting  withe-breaking  winds 
commingling  and  disturbing  it,  so  that  the  ship-covered  very 
huge  main  appeared  on  every  hand  as  a  rough  winter  tempest, 
until  the  noble  honourable  king,  to  wit,  Neptune,  a*©*©  to  put 
it  to  silence  and  calm.  And  when  the  Greeks  were  in  that  state, 
then  came  the  two  sons  of  Hypsipyle  and  Jason  son  of  Aeson 
from  the  isle  of  Lemnos  after  their  mother  to  Lycurgus'  house. 
And  it  was  told  to  Lycurgus  that  these  two  had  arrived  at  his 
house,  to  wit,  the  two  sons  of  Hypsipyle.  And  they  came  forth- 
with to  aid  and  succour  Lycurgus,  without  being  known  or 
recognised.  And  when  they  heard  the  tale  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos 
and  Hypsipyle  daughter  of  Thoas,  they  sundered  the  noble 
puissant  hosts,  until  they  reached  the  place  in  which  their 
mother  was,  and  closed  their  swiftly-locked  arms  about  her. 
But  when  she  saw  the  battle-weeds  and  the  blazon  of  their 
father  on  their  beautiful  huge  shields,  and  their  naked  weapons 
in  their  hands,  she  fell  down  there  weakly  and  feebly  owing  to 
the  excess  of  joy  she  felt  in  seeing  those  boys,  and  quick  showers 
of  tears  dripped  down  her  cheeks. 

As  for  the  Greeks,  however,  they  let  their  angry  feelings  fall 
to  the  ground,  and  the  noble  king  and  priest  Amphiaraus  spoke 
and  said:  "Listen  to  me,  ye  troops  of  Greeks,  and  thou  Lycurgus, 
till  I  relate  to  you  what  the  -god  of  prophecy,  to  wit,  Apollo,  has 
told  me,  that  ye,  O  Greeks,  would  find  these,  baleful  signs  in 
the  course  of  your  way  in  going  on  this  journey.  Wherefore  it 
behoves  you  to  restrain  your  feelings  of  wrath,  to  lay  aside  your 
aems,  and  to  celebrate  many  noble  sacrifices  and  pleasant  joyous 
games  in  honour  of  this  dead  boy  Archemorus,  son  of  Lycurgus, 
that  these  may  remain  to  the  last  of  time  and  the  end  of  the 
world.    For  no  better  for  him  were  a  life  as  long  as  that  of 

139 


E.  27a  34  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  209a  13 

re  Neastnr  cundail  ciansesta,  no  re  Laimedon  lansaeglach,  na     * 
haeidid  na  samla-sa1  fair;  nair  airemthar2  do-som  iter  deib  é  da  753 
eis."    Tainic  tra  ind  agaid  fae  si»,  -\  deisitar3  ina  longportaib  isin 
n-aidchi  Bin. 


VI 

2190      Adchlos   immorro  ua  chathrachaib  na  Greci  gartgloni4  na  v^ 
Greic  do  commorad5  cluichi  chaintig  i  n-onoir  -\  in  n-airmitin  1 
lmc  Ligurguis6.    Et  is  les'dorondad7  ar  tus  riam  a  macsamlai 
in  cluichi  sin  la  hErcail  mac  Amp[it]rionis  i  n-onoir  Peloip  rmc  6 
Thantail. 

2195      O  thainic  tra  scAus  tratheirgi  do  lo  arnamarach,  -\  roerig  gWan  25 
glan  uallach  ina  mill  crochomderg8  seach  imellbord  talman9,  co 
roruithnig  a  gathana  glanshoillsi  uar  tuaithebrachaib  in  talman10, 
rochomergedar  na  sluaig11  iter  thall  -]  amuich,  comma  fograch 
na  fidnemid  -j  feda12  foithremra  coillted  Neim  re  seastan  -\  re 

22ooseiselbi  na  sluag  Bin  a[c]  comergi  (col.  /3)  do  chommorad  na 
cluiched  cainthech  sin.    Robui  immorro  lAgurgus13  ina  rigsuidi  30 
1  a  bancheli  Eruididse14  'na  far[r]ad  -]  bantrochta  buaidirthi 
badbchaintech15  maraen  ria  a[c]  cainiud  a  meic.    Rochomnuallsad 
leo  isinn  uair  curaid  1  cathmih'd16  -\  lathagaili  Grec  i  tigib  rigda 

2205  romora  lAgurguis13;  -j  ge  rachainsed  Greic  in  mac  sin,  roairigsetar 
a  miscais  co  mor  ac  lucht  in  baile.    Is  andsin  rogab  Adraist,  46 
ardri  Grec,  a[c]  comdingnad  lAgurguis13  do  scur  a  chuma"  -j  a 
thoirrsi.     Ni  chualaig-sium  sin  tra  re  confad  na  cum&d  -j  re 
fiuchud  na  fergi.    Acus  asa  haithli  sin  rocomecrad  leosum  com- 

2210  rair  don  mac  sin  don  fhid  chuana'a  chuiprisc  -j  d'  [fhjualascaib  54 
ali18  uraidi  1  do  luibib  barrglana  bolathmara19  nach  leictis  lobud  57 
no  lochrad20  dona  corpaib  ima  cuirtis  .i.  sinomum  -j  ballsam216i 

1  Eg.  aiged  a  mac  samla  2  Eg.  airmidhtar  3  Eg.  desidhtar 

4  Eg.  Grece  gart  glaine  5  Eg.  cóoradh     E.cSrad  6  Eg.  airmedin 

mic  Ligurius          '  Eg.  doronudh          8  Eg.  croderg  9  Eg.  imellbhordaibh 

in  taluan              10  Eg.  taluan  n  Eg.  sluaig  Grec  12  Eg.  fograch 

fidhnimedha  7  fedha  13  Eg.  Ligurius  14  Eg.  Erudise 

15  Eg.  badhbhcaintecha  l6  Eg.  cathmileda  17  Eg.  chumad_ 

18  Eg.  do  fualascaii)  aille  19  Eg.  boladhmara  20  Eg.  no  luaithredh 
21  Eg.  sinamoum  7  balsaim 

140 


THE  THEBAID 

long-lived  Nestor,  or  Laomedon  full  of  days,  than  a  fate  like 
this  vouchsafed  him ;  for  he  shall  be  numbered  among  the  gods 
after  his  death."  Now  thereupon  came  night,  and  they  settled 
in  their  camps  that  night 


BOOK  VI 

It  was  heard  moreover  throughout  the  citiesof  green-meadowed 
Greece  that  the  Greeks  were  celebrating  funeral  games  in  honour 
and  respect  for  the  son  of  Lycurgus.  And  the  first  by  whom 
the  like  of  those  games  had  ever  been  held  was  Hercules  son 
of  Amphitryon  in  honour  of  Pelops  son  of  Tantalus. 

Now  when  the  light  of  rising  time  had  come  on  the  morrow, 
and  the  bright  gay  sun  had  risen,  a  blood-red  mass,  beyond 
earth's  border  edge,  and  his  pure  bright  rays  had  gleamed  over 
the  human  dwellings  of  the  earth,  the  hosts  both  on  this  side 
and  on  that  arose,  so  that  the  bosky  woods  of  the  forests  of 
Nemea  were  sounding  with  the  tumult  and  uproar  of  those 
hosts  as  they  arose  to  celebrate  those  funeral  games.  Lycurgus, 
moreover,  was  on  his  throne,  his  consort  Eurydice  by  his  side, 
and  bands  of  women  troubled  and  wildly  wailing  were  along 
with  her,  bewailing  her  son.  At  that  time  heroes,  battle-soldiers, 
and  champions  of  the  Greeks  cried  aloud  with  them  in  the  royal 
spacious  houses  of  Lycurgus ;  and  though  the  Greeks  wept  for 
that  boy,  they  perceived  that  they  were  greatly  hated  by  the 
people  of  the  town.  Then  Adrastus,  high-king  of  the  Greeks, 
began  encouraging  Lycurgus  to  cease  his  sadness  and  his  sorrow. 
But  he  heard  him  not  in  that  owing  to  the  tempest  of  his  grief 
and  the  boiling  of  his  wrath.  And  thereafter  by  them  was 
arranged  for  that  boy  a  pyre  of  fine  cypress-wood  and  other 
green  twigs,  and  of  bright-blossomed  fragrant  herbs  that  would 
permit  no  corruption  or  decay  in  the  bodies  round  which  they 
were  placed,  to  wit,  cinnamon,  balsam,  myrrh,  and  frankincense. 
141 


E.  27b  17  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  209b  10 

1  fc'irr  1  tuis.    Et  rochoraigid1  etaigi  csema  corcorglana  thiri  na  ^ ,  " 
Sithriu  taris  amuich  aneachtair  arna  n-ilecur  do  snath  alai/id 

2215  orda  -]  do  gemaib2  cruindi  carrmogail.     Et  roordaig  a  athair 
andsin  a  airm  chsema  chosmaili  in  meic  beic  sin  -j   fadbar?n  67 
a  senathar  do  thabairt  dochuw  in  cliuirp  sin  da  n-idbairt  -j  da 
comloscud  leis.    Uair  is  ed  ua  bes  accus//m  andsi?/  na  cuirp 
onoracha  do  loscud  -j  d'  edbairt  dona  deib  adartha. 

2220  Is  andsin  roerig  in  fisid3  fireolach  Ampiaraws  ~\  Gm'c  ar  cheana 
don  leith  ele,  acus  rocomecrad  leo  teni  taidlech  tseblasamna4,  coma 
sonai[r]ti5  soimthechta,  -|  co??/a  cseiti6  cowiredi  na  feda  dluithi 
doimtb.ec//ia  da  n-eis.  Et  o  thairnic  leosmn  in  teini  si?/,  rosuidigit 
acu  altoiri7  da  deib  nuaglana  nime  -j  da  deib  aduathmara  ifri?id,  121 

2225 1  rosendit  fetana  cuasmora  ceolbindi  do  gach  leith  -j  da  gach 
thaib  dib.  Et  roc//omergedar  secht  rig  Grec  im  Ligiwg/is16  do 
cAommorud  in  chainte8  si//. 

Roergedar  buidne  bithi  banamla  maroen  re  mathair  in  mic 
.i.  Erudidse9  -j  dirmanda  doesci/r[s]luaig  impi-si  .i.  a  buimmi,  136 

2230 -j  'ma  buimi  in  mic  sin  fa  Ipsiphile10  1  da  mac  lasoin  mic  Esom 
maroen  ria  a  da  chomalta.    O  dariacht  \mmorro  Eruididsi11  .i. 
mathair  in  mic  dar  áovus  in  baili  amach,  rolobair  o  guth  mor, 
1  is  ed  roraid :  "  A  meic,"  ar  si,  "ni  hi  seo  seidid  rofaelius-[s]a  138 
ort.    Et  dursan  dam  t'  aithni  dot  aileamai/i  -\  dot  altrom12  do 

2235  mnui  meblaig  mibriathraig  do  lucht  i/zdsi  Lemin  !  Et,  a  Grecu," 
ar  si,  "  na  cathid13  uar  seoid  na  bar  n-i?/dmasa  elaiscib  na 
hidbarta-sa  ni  a[s]  sia  acht  loiscther  lib  in  bean  'gar-millead  in 
mac  .i.  Ipsiphile  -]  loiscther  misi  maroen  ria." 

Et  o  tharnic  dissi  sin  da  rad,  roerig  higurgus16,  -j  rochuir  a  170 

2240  erred  -\  a  etach  uasal  idbarta  de,  -j  rothesc  a  fholt,  -j  rochuir  isin  195 
tenid   iat   dib    li[nib    mar   Eg.]   chow/arthai14  (p.   28)   mbroi?i 
1  domenman,  -j  is  ed  roraid:  "A  Ioib,"  ar  se,  "is  mibijiathrach  197 
rouadais  rim  a[c]  cetugwd  mo  meic  da  marbad,  uair  bam  sacart 
uasal  idbarta  dit  mad  gt/san  n[d]iu."    Is  andsi?/  roerig  fathrand  207 

2245*]   fidren  ruadlasrach  romoiri15  do  thenid  i?/na  hidbarta,  -j  ba 

1  Eg.  rocoirighsit         2  Eg.  geimib  3  Eg.  in  faidh  4  E.  taeblasamuin 

5  Eg.  sonairt       6  Eg.  ceiti        7  Eg.  suighit  altora        8  Eg.  in  cluithe  caintidh 
9  Eg.  Erudise  10  Eg.  mic  im  Ipsefile  u  Eg.  Erudidsi  12  Eg.  do 

oileamai?)  7  do  altrom»//  13  E.  catbig  14  Eg.  chomartha 

15  Eg.  romoire  16  Eg.  Ligurius 

I42 


THE  THEBAID 

And  beautiful  bright  purple  garments  of  the  land  of  the  Syrians 
were  spread  over  him  outside  his  exterior,  with  many  an  orna- 
ment of  beautiful  golden  thread  and  of  round  carbuncle  gems. 
And  then  his  father  ordered  the  beautiful  armour  suited  to  that 
little  boy,  and  the  war-spoil  armour  of  his  grandfather  to  be 
brought  to  that  corse  in  order  to  be  sacrificed  and  burnt  with 
it.  For  this  was  their  custom  then  to  burn  honoured  corses, 
and  to  offer  them  in  sacrifice  to  the  adored  gods. 

Then  arose  the  very  skilful  wizard  Amphiaraus,  and  all  the 
Greeks  of  the  other  side ;  and  by  them  a  bright  blazing-sided 
fire  was  laid,  so  that  the  thick  impassable  woods  became 
easily  passable  firm  places,  and  level  roads  behind  them.  And 
when  that  fire  had  been  completed  by  them,  altars  were 
placed  by  them  to  the  fresh  bright  gods  of  heaven  and  the 
horrible  gods  of  hell,  and  great-hollowed  sweet-noted  whistles 
were  blown  to  every  part  and  to  every  side  of  them.  And  seven 
kings  of  Greece  arose  with  Lycurgus  to  celebrate  that  mourning. 

Along  with  the  boy's  mother,  to  wit,  Eurydice,  female  womanly 
bands  arose,  and  troops  of  common  people  about  her,  to  wit, 
his  nurse,  and  along  with  that  little  boy's  nurse  was  Hypsipyle 
and  along  with  her  his  two  foster-brothers,  the  two  sons  of  Jason, 
son  of  Aeson.  But  when  Eurydice,  the  boy's  mother,  came  out 
at  the  gate  of  the  town,  she  spoke  with  a  loud  voice,  and  this 
is  what  she  said :  "  Son,"  said  she,  "  this  is  not  a  fate  for  thee 
that  I  can  endure.  And  it  is  sad  for  me  entrusting  thee  for 
thine  upbringing  and  nurture  to  a  treacherous  perfidious  woman 
of  the  people  of  the  isle  of  Lemnos !  And  Greeks,"  said  she, 
"  do  not  any  longer  spend  your  wealth  and  treasures  in  the 
festive  fires  of  this  sacrifice,  but  let  the  woman  in  whose  charge 
the  boy  was  destroyed,  to  wit,  Hypsipyle,  be  burnt  by  you,  and 
let  me  be  burnt  along  with  her." 

And  when  she  had  finished  saying  that,  Lycurgus  arose  and 
laid  aside  his  weeds  and  his  noble  sacrificial  robe,  and  he  shore 
his  hair,  and  .put  them  both  together  into  the  fire  as  a  mark  of 
sorrow  and  dejection,  and  this  is  what  he  said :  "O  Jove,"  said 
he,  "  perfidious  hast  thou  been  to  me  in  letting  my  son  be  slain, 
for  I  was  a  noble  sacrificing  priest  to  thee  even  till  to-day." 
Then  arose  the  roar  and  hiss  of  the  exceeding  great  red  flame 

143 


E.  28a  6  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  210«  13 

snimach  do  Grecaib  astod1  JAgurguis  -\  a  bancheli  gan  dul  daiba  yj 
da  loscud  isin  tenid  sin.    Rob3  adbul  tra  in  tan  sin  -j  ba  fograch 
leca  logmara  aga  loscud  inti  'ca4  loscud  -)  aircet  sengel  aithlegtha 
-j  or  ac  snigi  dar  etaigib  rigda  roailli  -j  fin  -j  fuil5  ac  fiuchud 

2250  i  tulc/ior»aib  cuanda  comdaingne. 

Is  andsin  roergedar  secht  fidirmanda  do  marcsluag  Grec  'ma6  213 
secht  rigaib  robeoda,  -j  tucsad  tri  graifni  i  timchull  na  tendted7 
sin.    Robuailseiar  basa  leo,  -]  rothuairgid  ochta  -j  urbruindeda  219 
andsin,  -j  rohidbraid  alma8  -j  cethra  d'  iarraid  fhesa  -j  eolais, 

2255  amal  ba  bes  accu-sum.  Racaithed  tra  in  la  si?i  leos?t?n  re  co?nram9 
in  cluichi  sin,  no  co-ro  luaithred10  lanmin  ar  lasad  na  tenti  tseb- 
lasa?nna  re  hirthosach11  na  haidchi.     Isin  maitin   arnamarach  237 
roc/<o/nergedar  uili,  -j  dorignead  leo  tempoll  suaichnich  soineamail 
'ma12  luaithred  chuirp  in  meic  siu  i.  Arsemarus ;  -|  tairnic  leo  e 

2260  co  cend  noi  la  -j  noi  n-aidchi.  Rori/idad  -]  rohecrad  im  slesaib  238 
in  tempaill  sin  .i.  delb  Ipsifile  ac  iarraid  msci  do  Grecaib  intan  245 
robadar  i  nn-itaid  remi  sin,  -j  delb  Arsimaruis  -\  na  nathrach  248 
romarb  é,  -j  delb  ga?  Capanents13  da  romarb  in  nathair. 

0  tharnic  tra  in  ssethar  sin  do  denam,   tangadar  senoraig 
2265  croma  chianassta,  -j  maccaim  robega  rebacha,  -j  da?scnr[s]luaig 

denmech  deaith  do14  chomorad  aBnaich  in  n-onoir  in  mic  sin 
aroen  re  gasradaib  Grec.  Et  rob  e  inad  iwn  a?naich  .i.  glend 
glasfherach  con^reid,  -j  feda  foithremla15  firglana  'na  thimcheall 
iter  da  sliab  chruindi  chomarda,   -j    rasuidetar   buidne   croda 

2270  cathacha  na  nGrec  i  mucha  do  lo  -\  do  laithi  andsin.    Et  roairi?n16  262 
each  a  sochraidi  and,  -j  o  rohairmed17,  tucad  chucu  cet  do  buaib 
data  deigremra  -\  a  cornlin  da  tharbaib  comsesta  con/datha  daibsi.  265 
Et  tucad  chucu  asa  haithli  si/i  delba  ri»dta  roailli  a  n-athar  -j  a  268 
senathar  d'  urgairdigud  aicenta  orru  isinn  oenach.    Et  roleigit18  294 

2275  leosnm  andsi?i  ar  tus  grega19  diana  degretha  srianailli  socra 
sluagda  sofhermaig20  dar  moigib  minreidi  i/?n  asnaig  sin.    As  i  301 

1  Eg.  asoclh  E.  astog  3  Eg.  duibb  3  Eg.  Eop  4  Eg.  sin  iumut 
leac  loghmor  aca  loscud  acu  5  E.  snidi...finfhuil  6  Eg.  umna 
'  Eg.  na  tinedh  8  Eg.  rohidhbradh  albha  9  Eg.  comrim  10  Eg.  no 
gur-luaithredh  n  Eg.  hurtosach  12  Eg.  im  13  Eg.  Capaneus 
7  a  gai  14  Eg.  denmaclia  deghgnimacha  do  15  Eg.  foithremra 
16  Eg.  i  mucha  don  lo  7  do  laithi  andsin  7  rohairmedha  17  Eg.  ic  each  i 
sochraidi  andsin  7  o  rohairmedha  18  Eg.  roleiced  19  Eg.  greadha 
20  Eg.  soermaidh 

I44 


THE  THEBAID 

of  the  sacrificial  fire,  and  it  was  difficult  for  the  Greeks  to  hold 
back  Lycurgus  and  his  spouse  from  going  to  be  burnt  in  that 
fire.  It  was  vast  at  that  time,  and  resounding  were  the  precious 
stones  as  they  were  being  burned  in  it,  and  pure  white  molten 
silver,  and  gold  dripping  from  royal  very  beautiful  garments, 
and  wine  and  blood  boiling  in  fine  strong  vessels. 

Then  seven  troops  of  Greek-cavalry  arose  round  their  seven 
spirited  kings,  and  held  three  horse-races  round  those  fires.  They 
smote  their  palms,  and  breasts  and  bosoms  were  beaten  there, 
and  flocks  and  herds  were  sacrificed  in  order  to  seek  knowledge 
and  guidance,  as  was  their  custom.  Now  that  day  was  spent  by 
them  in  the  contention  of  those  games,  until  the  flaming-sided 
fires  were  very  fine  burnt  out  ashes  at  the  beginning  of  the 
night.  In  the  morning  on  the  morrow  all  arose,  and  by  them  was 
made  a  far-seen  magnificent  temple  about  the  ashes  of  the  body 
of  that  boy,  to  wit,  Archemorus ;  and  it  was  finished  by  them  at 
the  end  of  nine  days  and  nine  nights.  Carved  and  set  in  order 
on  the  sides  of  that  temple  were,  to  wit,  the  figure  of  Hypsipyle 
searching  for  water  for  the  Greeks  when  they  were  athirst  afore- 
time ;  and  the  figure  of  Archemorus  and  of  the  serpent  which 
killed  him,  and  the  figure  of  the  spear  of  Capaneus  wherewith 
he  slew  the  serpent. 

Now  when  they  had  finished  doing  that  labour,  there  came 
bent  and  aged  seniors,  very  small  sportive  youths,  and  idle  and 
sluggish  common  people  to  celebrate  a  fair  in  honour  of  that  boy 
along  with  picked  Greek  soldiers.  And  the  place  of  the  fair  was, 
to  wit,  a  green  grassy  smooth  glen  with  bosky  very  bright  woods 
around  it  between  two  round  hills  of  equal  height,  and  the 
valorous  warlike  troops  of  the  Greeks  sat  down  there  at  daybreak 
day  by  day.  And  they  each  numbered  their  forces  there,  and 
when  they  had  done  so,  there  were  brought  them  a  hundred  hand- 
some goodly  fat  cows  and  the  same  number  of  bulls  of  the  same 
age  and  colour  as  they.  And  after  that  there  were  brought  them 
the  carved  very  beautiful  figures  of  their  fathers  and  their  grand- 
fathers to  delight  their  nature  in  the  fair.  And  first  there  were 
started  by  them  swift,  well-running,  beautifully  bridled,  quiet, 
massed  together, well-coursing  steeds  over  the  smooth  level  plains 
of  that  fair.  Now  this  is  the  first  horse  that  was  brought  there, 
c  145  10 


E.  28*  47  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  210b  18 

tra  cetna  ech  tucad  andsin  .i.  Arion  ech  aibind  allmarda1  Adraist   vGj 
iwd  n-airdrig.   Ba  suaichnich  am  egcosc  mn  e[i]ch2  sin  .i.  gabair 
gormglasa,  gasta,  gualandtiug3,  badba,  bircluasach,  socair,  sse- 

2280  mind4,  soermach,  co  moing  cairn  corcarglain,  co  n-erboll  (col.  /3) 
coratroma5  comdatha,  do  bunad^cenel  eich  Neptuin,  dea6  in 
mara,  uair  is  cwma  conriadad  si  muir  ~\  tir.  Et  ni  ba  miad7  le 
nech  stili  do  lecud8  íuirú  acht  mad  Adraist  int  ardri  a  oenur. 
Et  gid  ed  tuc-som  da  cliamai»  in  la  sin  hi  dochum  inn  oenaig 

2285  .i.  do  VoMnices  -j  is  ed  roraid  siw:  "  Na  buail  co  menic  t'  ech,  319 
a  gilla,"  ar  se,  "  -j  comgres9  each  -j  is  lor  do  gresacht10  [fuirre-si 
sin  Eg.],  -\  reithfid  in  mag  amal  roreithset  eich  gmni  Faoyetan11 
mi'c  Apaill." 

Et  roerig  Ampiaraws  andsin  .i.  sacart  mor  na  G?-eci12,  dochum 

2290  na  comlingi  cetna,  -]  da  ech  ail[l]i  oengela  fóe  co  nn-étach  a 
comdatha  immi  i   comartha  a   sacerdoiti13,  -j   ba  do   shil   eich 
Chastoir  .i.  Sillarais  dona  heachaib  sin.    Et  rocowerig  'na  diaid  328 
si?i  Ademet,  taisech  na  Tesailli,  -]  lairthecha  dana  diana  deigretha  332 
fee,  -j  siad  ailli  aladbreca.    Et  is  iad  ba  comnesa   do  si/i  da 

2295  mac  Iasoin  mic  Eso7'n  -j  Ipsifile14  .i.  Toas15  -\  Eunihos;   -j  ua  342 
cosmail  tra  delba  na  desi  [sin  Eg.]  iter  armaib  -]  echaib  -j  etaigib. 
Tangadar  'na  ndiaid  sin   and  Coromis  -j  Ipodomus.    Cromis16, 
immorro,  ba  do  shil17  hErcoil  mic  Amp[it]n'o»is  do  ;  -|  Ipodomits 
ba  do  sil  Onamaus18,  rig  Pissa,  do ;  -\  ni  g/-eised19  nech  dib  sin  a  349 

23ooeocho  sech  aroili.  Et  eich  Diomit20  rig  na  nGeittecda21  ua 
Cromis,  -j  is  e  in  Diemid  isin22  dobe?*ead  a  aigedu  da  echaib  co 
marbdais  -j  co  n-ithdis23  iad,  cein  no  [co  Eg.]  riacht  Ercoil  ar 
aigidecht  da  thig,  -j  co  tard24  Ercail  eisum  fen  daib  -|  co  rus- 
marbsad.    Ipodomws,  immorro,  eich  a  athar  .i.  Inomaus25  robadar  347 

2305  foe  seic.  Et  is  e  int  Eno??iaws26  rofocrad  co??irith  n-echda  ar  gach 
fer  ticed  d'  iarraid  a  ingine  fair;  -]  o  teigtis  a  eich-sum  dib, 
romarbdais27  aici  in  lucht  sin  fochetoir.   Et  is  amlaid  robadar 

1  Eg.  allbardha  2  Eg.  in  eich  3  Eg.  gauair  gormglas  gastaghual- 

n 
4  Eg.  seimincl  5  Eg.  comtrom  6  Eg.  cinel  beich  Neptain  dee  7  E.  miT) 
8  Eg.  lecan  ón  9  Eg.  coimgres  10  E.  gressaclit  si  7  n  Eg.  fai  setan 

12  Eg.  nGreca  13  Eg.  fae  co  nn-edach  a  comdalta  uime  a  comardha  a  scacerdoiti 
14  Eg.  d'Ipsifile  15  MSS.  7  Toas  16  Eg.  7  Croims  17  E.  thil  18  Eg.  Onamus 
19  Eg.  greissidh  20  Eg.  Doimit  21  Eg.  na  n-Eigketagha  22  Eg.  in 

fendirf  sin  M  Eg.  co  n-ethadbdis  24  Eg.  co  dart  25  Eg.  Inanius 

26  Eg.  Oenamus  27  Eg.  romarbtba 

146 


THE  THEBAID 

to  wit,Arion,  the  pleasing  foreign  horse  of  the  high-king  Adrastus. 
Distinguished  indeed  was  the  appearance  of  that  horse,  to  wit, 
a  blue-grey,  excellent,  thick-shouldered,  warlike,  prick-eared, 
quiet,  gentle,  well-coursed  white  mare,  with  a  fair  bright  purple 
mane,  and  a  tail  of  equal  weight  and  colour,  of  the  original  stock 
of  the  horse  of  Neptune,  god  of  the  sea ;  for  indifferently  it  could 
traverse  sea  and  land.  And  it  did  not  deign  to  let  any  other 
mount  it  save  only  Adrastus  the  high-king.  And  yet  he  gave 
it  that  day  for  the  fair  to  Polynices,  his  son-in-law,  saying : 
"  Do  not  strike  thy  horse  often,  lad,"  said  he,  "  but  urge  others, 
seeing  that  is  enough  of  urging  for  it,  and  it  will  course  the 
plain  as  coursed  the  horses  of  the  sun,  Phaethon's,  son  of  Apollo." 
And  then  arose  Amphiaraus,  the  great  priest  of  Greece,  for  the 
same  contest,  with  two  beautiful  pure-white  horses  under  him, 
with  trappings  of  the  same  colour  about  him,  as  a  sign  of  his 
priesthood,  and  those  horses  were  of  the  seed  of  the  horse  of 
Castor,  to  wit,  Cyllarus.  And  after  that  arose  Admetus,  chief  of 
Thessaly,  with  bold,  swift,  well-running  mares  before  him,  and 
they  were  beautiful  and  dappled.  And  next  to  those  were  the 
two  sons  of  Jason  son  of  Aeson,  and  of  Hypsipyle,  to  wit,  Thoas 
and  Euneos ;  and  alike  indeed  were  the  figures  of  those  twain 
both  as  to  arms,  horses,  and  garments.  After  those  came  there 
Chromis  and  Hippodamus.  Now  Chromis  was  of  the  seed  of 
Hercules,  son  of  Amphitryon ;  and  Hippodamus  of  the  seed  of 
Oenomaus,  king  of  Pisa  ;  and  none  of  those  was  urging  his  horses 
past  another.  And  the  horses  of  Diomede,  king  of  the  Thracians, 
were  under  Chromis,  and  that  is  the  Diomede  that  used  to  give 
his  guests  to  his  horses  that  they  might  kill  and  eat  them,  till 
Hercules  arrived  as  a  guest  at  his  house,  and  Hercules  gave 
(Diomede)  himself  to  them,  and  they  killed  him.  Hippodamus 
moreover  had  under  him  the  horses  of  his  father,  to  wit,  Oeno- 
maus. It  was  this  Oenomaus  who  used  to  impose  a  horse-race 
on  every  man  that  came  to  ask  his  daughter  of  him ;  and  when 
his  own  horses  got  the  better  of  them,  those  people  were  killed 
by  him  forthwith.  And  the  horses  were  thus.  They  had  a  drop 
147  10—2 

HO'B  ^  fa  w**  At£iu«  (=  fy  &Ue i~iu.)  ibJ-  1*jl  JUu.  Aie&J, 


E.  28b  34  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  211a  19 

na  heich  sin  -]  broen  fola  na  fer  romarbaid  dib  ara  carput  i    ^ 
comartha  coscair.    Cid  tra  acid  rosuidiged1  leosum  andsirc  crich  350 

2310-)  comartha  cusa  leicfitis  an  n-eocbo  -j  dair  barrlom  bunlethan2 
robai  i  ciííd  in  muigi  -]  carrac  ti'enmor  thunidi3  in  n-aird  aili 
and  •]  ed  cheithri  n-urchur  saigdi  sithguirmi  eatorru  sin. 

Is  i  tra  a[i]mser  i  raibi  Apaill  mac  Ioib  ac  sirsenm  a  chruiti  355 
1  i  mullach4  slebi  Barnaps  ac  adraolad  na  ndei.    Et  atchondairc 

2315  uad  na  Grecu5  fori?*  moig  mor  reid  ara  rabadar6 ;  -j  robai  ac 
tobcuVt  aichni  ar  each  oen  ba  leith  dib7,  -j  adchondairc  andsiw  370 
Admeit  ri  na  Tesailli,  -j  Ampiaraus  uasalsacart,  -j  bad8  caraid 
cwmtha  am  dosum  in  dias  sin.     Uair  robui  'na  huegairi  thret  374 
do  fhir  dib  .i.  do  Emit9,  intan  rohath[ch]uired10  asa  deacht  é, 

2320-]  ua  sacart  uasal  idbarta  (p.  29)  do  Ampiaraws.    Et  o  rabui  ag 
fegad  amlaid  sin,  is  ed  roraid :  "  Cia  iter,"  ar  se,  "  in  dea  rogras  372 
na  caraid-sea  uil11  acum-sa  doc/mm  chathaig[t]i  na  Tebi  ?  -|  gid 
ed  rafuil  soni12  ngrada  acwra  uar  in  dis  [s]in,  uair  is  tigerna  -j  is 
cara  bunaid  Adiemit,  ri  na  Tesailli.    Ampiaraits,  immorro,  rofitir 

2325  fein  ga[ch]  ni  asf'as  dochair  ind."    Et  is  cuma  roraid  sin  -j  ro-  384 
muidsed  frasa  [diana  Eg]  der  dar  grnaidib  do,  -\   t&nic  mar 
saegnen  tened  no  mar  saigid  a  sreifg  no  co  raíiic  i  coillid  Nem. 

Isin  uair  sin  robai  Proteus13  a[c]  cur  cra/idchair  a  chathbarr  389 
'm  a  n-i?iadaib  comlenga,  -|  rocoraigid  iad-si<?w  ban  samla  sin. 

2330  Robui  tra  aiigius  -j  ti«di»is14  mor  ac  na  feraib  -j  ac  na  hechaib  394 
'man    comrith15.     Ua    hadbul,  immorro,    re    heistecht    sitrech 
-)  setfedach  na  n-ech  sin  -j  a  lemenda  re  gloraib  na  srmn  aca 
n-imnastad.    Et  asa  haithli  sin  roleicit  i  n-enfhecht  -j  a  n-enuair 
doc-hum  a  retha16.     Ua  dluith  deimnech17  am   docuas   andsm,  405 

2335-]  nir-ba  suaichnich18  soaichnid  neach  dib  seach  aroili  re  daithi 

I  re   denmidi   dochuadar  uaithib.     Et    ua    dicheltai19   uili   na4io 
dirmanda  sin  dona  haichthib  co??idorcha  ewmaseda  rochomerig 
dib  re  snuadalh/s  na  herma,  re  dendgail  na20  roth,  re  hanalaib  420 
na  n-each  -j  na  c?i/-ad  ic  imchosnum  thosaich  isi?;  cho/?di»g.    Et 

2340  ua  hilbrecca  illathach21  na  moigi  minreidi  risna  cethaib  comgela 

1  E.  rosuigided    Eg.  rosuidhodh  2  Eg.  buinnlethan  3  Eg.  tuinighthi 

4  Eg.  sirseinm  cruite  a  mullach  5  Eg.  uadha  na  Grecaig  6  Eg.  arauatar 
7  Eg.  ar  gach  leth  dibh      8  Eg.  7  ua      9  Eg.  d'Adhmet     10  Eg.  roathchuiredh 

II  Eg.  fuil  12  Eg.  ni  fuil  soine  13  Eg.  Parttanapeus  14  Eg.  tendenus 
15  Eg.  uan  comrith  lfi  Eg.  an  retha  17  Eg.  denmnedacb  18  Eg.  suaithnidh 
19  Eg.  dichelta  20  E.  no         21  Eg.  ildathacba 

148 


THE  THEBAID 

of  the  blood  of  the  men  that  had  been  killed  by  them  on  their 
chariot  as  a  sign  of  victory.  Now  by  them  was  set  there  the' 
goal  and  mark  to  which  they  should  direct  their  horses — a  broad- 
stemmed  bare-topped  oak  which  stood  at  the  end  of  the  plain 
and  a  great  strong  earth-bound  stone  in  another  direction  there, 
and  the  space  of  four  shots  of  a  long  blue  arrow  between  them. 

Now  this  is  the  time  when  Apollo,  son  of  Jove,  was  ever 
playing  his  harp,  and  he  was  on  the  top  of  mount  Parnassus 
lauding  the  gods.  And  he  saw  in  the  distance  the  Greeks  upon 
the  great  smooth  plain  on  which  they  were  ;  and  he  was  able  to 
recognise  each  of  them  apart,  and  he  saw  there  Admetus  king 
of  the  Thessalians,  and  Amphiaraus  the  noble  priest,  and  those 
twain  were  indeed  intimate  friends  to  him.  For  he  had  been  a 
flock  shepherd  to  one  of  them,  to  wit,  Admetus,  when  he  had 
been  divested  of  his  godhead;  and  Amphiaraus  was  a  noble  sacri- 
ficing priest  to  him.  And  when  he  was  so  gazing,  this  is  what 
he  said :  "  Who  in  the  world,"  said  he,  "  is  the  god  that  has 
urged  these  two  friends  of  mine  to  the  war  against  Thebes  I 
And  yet  I  have  a  partiality  of  love  for  these  two,  for  Admetus 
king  of  Thessaly  is  lord  and  original  friend.  Amphiaraus,  how- 
ever, himself  knows  everything  of  misfortune  that  will  arise 
thereanent."  And  hardly  had  he  said  that  when  swift  showers 
of  tears  broke  over  his  cheeks;  and  he  came  like  a  thunderbolt 
or  like  arrow  from  string  till  he  reached  the  wood  of  Nemea. 

At  that  time  Prothous  was  casting  a  lot  in  his  helmet  about 
their  places  in  the  race,  and  they  were  placed  in  that  way. 
Now  men  and  horses  were  in  great  eagerness  and  haste  about  the 
race.  It  was  a  great  thing  indeed  to  listen  to  the  neighings  and 
pantings  of  those  horses,  and  their  curvettings  to  the  sounds  of 
the  bridles  holding  them  in.  And  thereafter  at  the  same  time 
and  moment  they  were  let  go  for  their  course.  Close  and  ener- 
getic indeed  was  the  pace  there,  and  none  of  them  was  noticeable 
or  distinguished  above  another  owing  to  the  speed  and  swiftness 
with  which  they  went  away.  And  those  crowds  were  all  con- 
cealed by  the  darkened  and  mingled  faces  that  emerged  owing 
to  the  river-sweat  of  the  course,  the  dust  of  the  wheels,  the 
breaths  of  the  horses  and  of  the  heroes  contending  for  first  place 
in  the  race.  And  the  smooth  level  plains  were  much  variegated 
149 


E.  29a  28  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  211b  25 

cubair  consnigtis  re  hóilib1  na  heachraidi  ac  fosenm2  na  sn'an-T^b 
mirend  isiwn  uair  ain.    Et  ba  fogradach3  firmainint  andsm  re 
greasacht  na  cwrad  comrmnach  war  na  hechaib  ailli  allmarda4. 
Is  andsin  bra  roarig5  Aroén6  .i.  ech  Adraist,  marcach  cveni  425 

2345  comuithech7  do  bith  fuirvi  .i.  Polinices,  -j  rogob  dremni  -\  dasacht 
-j  daebili8,  -j  robui  ac  fegad9  a  tigerna  fen  -j  aca  iarraid  ar  fud  430 
in  muigi  moradbail.    Et  ge  rabui,  dochuaid  sin10  urchur  saigti 
sithguirmi  andsi?i  do  gregaib    glanailli11  Grec.     A[m]piaraws- 
immorro  ba  nesu  d'  Aroén6  -j  ba  fada  etorru12  -|  in  marcach 

235oTesalta  .i.  Ademet13  ina  diaid  sec14.    Et  is  iad  ua  nesa  do-siden  434 
dano  da  mac  Iasoin15  .i.  Enunios  -|  Tous,  -j  nir-greis  nech  dib-side16 
a  eochu  sech  araili  do  cho??iull  a  charadraid.    Crómos  acgarb,  436 
immorro,  -j  Ipodamws  anachéil  fo  deoid17,  -\  a  meit  na  miled  sin 
da  n-eachaib  'ga  n-imarcur  is  ed  uadera  si».    Ampiarcms  rogob 

2355  seic18  ar  athgairid  na  conairi  da  tairechtaiw  tosaich,  -j  is  ed  ana19  442 
cetna  dorone  Admeit,  ri  na  Teasailli,  -j  ba  denmech20  in  marcach 
isiw21,  uair  is  citrnma  no-lenad  do  thseib  -\  do  drum  a  eich. 
Aroén6,  immorro,  int  ech  robui  fa  Yolinices,  robui  co  siblach  444 
(col.  /3)  sechranda,  uair  nir-CMmai/?g22  a  certugwd  cein  no  cu  rue 

2360  Ampiaraíís  tosach  de.    Et  ua  he  Admeid  ua  comnesu  do-side, 
cein  no  cor-impa23  Aroén24  (ech)  Adraist  aris  ar  set25  na  sliged. 
Add  cheana  ni  gresed  FoHnices  -\  ni  astadus26,  acht  robui  ina  450 
tham  1  ina  thaisi  i  ??n-ichtitr  in  carbaid  inn  uair  sin. 

Is  andsm  ro[fh]acsad  aris  na  he[i]ch  diana  deinmetha27  si?? 

2365  csethi  a28  comretha,  -j  dochuadar  fordol  conairi,  co  rogabsad  a 
carpaid  caBma  cwmaidi29  i  cend  aroili  -|  a  cheli.    Acus  gid  ed,  460 
nir-ba  lor  lesna  cttradaib  gresacht  na  n-ech  o  sporaib  athgera30 
iarnaide  no  co  ndernsad  o  gothaib  moraib  *j  o  [a]  n-anmandaib 
dilsi  uadein.    Rogres  tra  Admeit  andsi?i  Poloe  -j  Siris  a  da  each. 

2370  Rogreis  [do]?io  Ampiaraits  Asceton  datha31  deigretha  et  Sicnj/6- 

[gleglan  Eg.]  glegel  gualandtiug.    Rogres32,  immorro,   Cromis  464 

1  Eg.  hoibKM      2  Eg.  na  heachraidi  fo  seinm      3  Eg.  foecrach     4  Eg.  aildi 
allbarda  5  E.  e  deleted  a  sub.  lin.  6  Eg.  Arion  7  Eg.  comuidech 

8  Eg.  debeile  9  Eg.  fegain  10  Eg.  douai  dochuaidh  so«  1X  Eg.  do  grec 
glanaildi  12  Eg.  eturru  13  Eg.  Admet  14  Eg.  sidheig  15  E.  Iasoi» 
16  Eg.  dib  sin        17  Eg.  anaicbeil  ua  deoidh       18  Eg.  sidheg       19  Eg.  is  ed  in 

30  Eg.  denmnerfacha  21  Eg.  sin  22  Eg.  nir  cumaing  23  Eg.  cein  cur-impo 
21  E.  Aróén  2i  Eg  ar  sarsét  26  Eg.  ni  fosdó  í  27  Eg.  demmnedaich 
28  Eg.  na  coitlie  sin  a              29  Eg.  cumachta  eumdaigh  30  Eg.  aithgera 

31  Eg.  data  32  Eg.  Eoghabh  v 

150 


THE  THEBAID 

and  bemudded  by  the  white  showers  of  foam  that  dripped  down 
from  the  jaws  of  the  horses  as  they  jingled  their  bridle-bits  at 
that  time.  And  the  firmament  then  echoed  owing  to  the  con- 
tending heroes  urging  on  the  beautiful  foreign  steeds. 

Now  Arion,  to  wit,  Adrastus' horse,  then  perceived  that  a  gentle 
strange  rider,  to  wit,  Polynices,  was  mounted  on  it,  and  im- 
petuosity, madness,  and  restiveness  seized  it,  and  it  kept  looking- 
for  its  own  master,  and  searching  for  him  throughout  the  great 
vast  plain.  And  though  it  was  so  doing,  it  went  a  shot  of  a  long- 
blue  arrow  away  from  the  bright  and  beautiful  steeds  of  the 
Greeks.  Amphiaraus,  however,  was  next  to  Arion  and  it  was  far 
between  them,  and  behind  him  was  the  Thessalian  rider,  to  wit, 
Admetus.  And  those  that  were  next  to  him  again  were  the  two 
sons  of  Jason,  Euneos  and  Thoas,  and  neither  of  these  urged  their 
horses  past  the  other  in  order  to  fulfil  their  friendship.  Fierce 
Chromis,  however,  and  senseless  Hippodamus  were  last,  and  the 
reason  for  that  was  the  weight  of  those  soldiers  for  their  horses  to 
carry.  As  for  Amphiaraus,  he  hit  upon  a  short-cut  of  the  way  to 
reach  first  place,  and  it  was  the  same  thing  that  Admetus  king  of 
Thessaly  did,  and  vain  was  that  rider,  for  indifferently  he  used  to 
cling  to  the  side  and  to  the  back  of  his  horse.  As  for  Arion,  the 
horse  that  was  under  Polynices,  she  was  swift  and  erratic,  for  it 
was  not  possible  to  steady  her,  until  Amphiaraus  had  taken 
away  the  lead.  And  it  was  Admetus  that  was  next  to  him  until 
Arion,  Adrastus'  horse,  turned  again  on  the  track  of  the  way. 
Yet  Polynices  was  neither  urging  his  horse  nor  holding  her  in, 
but  Jay  at  that  time  in  stupor  and  weakness  at  the  bottom  of 
the  chariot. 

It  was  then  that  those  swift  and  mettled  horses  again  left  the 
tracks  of  their  race,  and  went  astray  from  the  way,  and  brought 
their  beautiful  shapely  chariots  in  collision  with  others  and  one 
another.  And  yet  the  heroes  were  not  satisfied  with  urging  their 
horses  with  sharp  iron  spurs  until  they  had  done  so  with  loud 
voices  and  by  their  own  proper  names.  Now  Admetus  urged 
there  Pholoe  and  Iris,  his  two  horses.  Amphiaraus,  again,  urged 
coloured  well-running  Aschetos,  and  gleaming  white  thick- 
shouldered  Cygnus.   Moreover  Chromis  urged  Strymon.  Aethion 

151 


E.  29b  18  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  212a  24 

Stn'mon.    Robui  Echion  ua  Uneos  mac  Iaso?'/?.    Rngres  [do]??o   v*  ' 
Ipodomws  Oidóna.    Rogms  Tohas  mac  Iasoin  Podarsen.     Nir- 
labair1  Pohraces  risi/i  n-ech  bui  fai  .i.  re  hAreon22,  uair  nir-lam  467 

2375  a  guth   do  cloistecht  di.    Et  ba  cuntabartach  cosewr  co  fada  474 
andsin  iter  na  hechaib. 

Is  andsi/i  kra  roast2  Toas  mac  Iason3  Admeit,  ri  na  Tesailli, 
intan  roui  ac  dul  secha,  -\  ni  thuc  a  brathair  Eunios  fortacht  476 
fair,  uair  rogresestar  Ipodonws  gasta  grwadsohis  a  eochu  etorru. 

2380  Tuc  [do]no  Cromis  mac  Ercail  astod  foreigni  ar  Ipodomws  dar4 
eis  caich,  comtis  sinti  a  srianmirenda5  a  ech,  -\  co  rabris  a  charpaa7. 
Et  o  rabrisead  amlaid  si??  carpao7  hIpodom??is,  roimpaised6  a  eich  486 
ris  fochetoir  da  ithi,  o  robui  'na  loigi7,  ama/  ba  bes  leo  remi  si?? 
daine  clo  ithi.    Et  o  'dchondairc  in  trenfer  calma  Cromis  si??, 

2385  rotreic    a   buaid    comretha,    -j    roimpo  d'  indsaigid  Ipodorm?i,9, 490 
1  roanaich  e8  bar  a  echaib. 

Tanic   tra  Apaill   andsi??  d'  [fhjortacht  7  d'  [fhjoirithm  do  491 
Ampiaraws  do  thobairt  buad[a]  comlefga  do.    Et  is  e  ni  dor[o]ni 
torathar  firg?-ana  feosach9  do  deilb  -|  do  dena???  andsin  ar  lar10  495 

2390  inn  senaig,  co  ngebtais  amaiti  aduathmara"  ifir?i  grain  -j  ecla 
reimi.  .  O  'tchondairc  tra  Areón22  an??i  si?i,  rogob  aduath  -|  urecla 
hi  remi12,  cor-erig  a  mong  co  sesmach  sirgarb  osa  gualai/?d,  -j  co 
rothairring  a  carbad  le  -j  i??  n-ech13  ali  bai  fai,  -j  co  rothoit 
Póiínices  asi??   charpwa1  co   roibi   bWsti   buaidirthi    ar    lar   i??n 

2395  asnaich  da  n-eis14.    Et  robui-siwrw  isi»  loigi  sin  cein  co  ndechaid 
carpat  Impiaram's  int  sacairt,  -j  carpad  Admeit,  ri  na  Teasailli, 
secha  ■]  lucht  na  comlenga  ar  chena.    Rothocaib-siu?/i  a  chend 
co  hanband  eneirt15  asa  haithli  si??,  7  roerig  do  dechai?i16  nasn 
éomlenga  (p.  30). 

2400      Is  andsi??  roopair  Ampiaraws  imchosnum  tosaich  re  Areón22  518 
fuascrach17  firluath,  ce  ra-bi18  cen  marcach  fuirri,  -j  rochomgres 
a  eocho  'na  diaid  coma  luaithigt/?e?'19  re  sidi20  fglasfuar  fgaithi  522 
i/??n-a[i]msir  gairb  gemrid  a  deini  -j  a  dedgairi21.    Roco??tlai  'na 

1  Eg.  Iasom...Eogab  dono  Ipasen...Nir-labhair      2  Eg.  rofhost      3  Eg.  Tous 
mac  Iasoi)i  4  Eg.  fasto...tar  5  Eg.  comdis  rinnta  snithi  srianmirenna 

6  Eg.  roimpo  7  Eg.  itbe  7  o  'dconnairc  rouai  'na  loighe  8  Eg.  roanaig  e 
9  Eg.  feosagaeh  10  Eg.  do  denam  om.:  for  lar  ll  Eg.  anaichinnti  7 

adhfuathmara  12  Eg.  uirhecla  remi  13  Eg.  int  ech  14  Eg.  buaidirtha... 
da  eis  1S  Eg.  Hacn/rt...eisirt  16  Eg.  dfechain  17  Eg.  fuaisgrecb  18  Eg.  ge 
rabai       19  Eg.  luaithir       20  Eg.  re  sirdi       21  Eg.  doighaire       22  Eg.  Arion 

152 


THE  THEBAID 

was  under  Euneos,  son  of  Jason.  Hippodamus,  again,  urged 
Cydon.  Thoas  son  of  Jason  urged  Podarces.  Polynices  did  not 
speak  to  the  horse  that  was  under  him,  to  wit,  Arion,  for  he  did 
not  dare  that  his  voice  should  be  heard  by  her.  And  victory  was 
long  doubtful  there  among  the  horses. 

Well,  it  was  then  that  Thoas  son  of  Jason  held  Admetus  king 
of  Thessaly,  when  he  was  going  past  him,  and  Euneos  his  brother 
brought  him  no  succour,  for  fresh,  bright-cheeked  Hippodamus 
urged  his  horses  between  them.  Chromis  son  of  Hercules,  again, 
gave  a  violent  check  to  Hippodamus  after  the  rest,  so  that  the 
bridle-pieces  of  his  horses  became  stretched  and  his  chariot  was 
broken.  And  when  Hippodamus'  chariot  was  thus  broken,  his 
horses  turned  upon  him  forthwith  to  eat  him,  for  he  was  lying, 
as  it  was  their  custom  previously  to  eat  men.  And  when  the 
brave  champion  Chromis  saw  that  he  abandoned  his  victory  in 
the  race,  and  turned  to  Hippodamus,  and  saved  him  from  his 
horses. 

Now  Apollo  came  there  to  succour  and  help  Amphiaraus,  in 
order  to  give  him  victory  in  the  race.  And  this  is  the  thing  he 
did,  to  fashion  and  make  a  very  hideous  bearded  monster  there 
in  the  midst  of  the  fair,  so  that  the  awful  hags  of  hell  would 
conceive  horror  and  fear  at  it.  Now  when  Arion  saw  that  thing, 
horror  and  terror  seized  her  at  it  so  that  her  mane  rose  stiffly 
lastingly  rough  over  her  shoulder,  and  she  dragged  her  chariot 
with  her  and  the  other  horse  that  was  yoked  to  it,  and  Polynices 
fell  out  of  the  chariot,  and  lay  broken  and  confused  in  the  midst 
of  the  fair  behind  them.  And  he  lay  in  that  position  till  the 
chariot  of  Amphiaraus  the  priest,  and  the  chariot  of  Admetus 
king  of  the  Thessalians,  and  all  the  people  of  the  race  had  gone. 
After  that  he  raised  his  head  feebly  and  weakly,  and  rose  to 
view  the  race. 

Then  Amphiaraus  essayed  to  gain  first  place  from  frightened 

very  swift  Arion,  though  she  was  now  riderless,  and  he  urged  on 

his  horses  after  her  so  that  his  speed  and  quickness  were  as 

swift  as  a  grey  cold  blast  of  wind  in  a  rough  winter  season.    He 

153 


E.  3oa  6  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  212b  25 

ndiaid  co  na1  roibi  nech  roime,  7  robo  taisci2  andsin  d'  echaib   v,  ' 

2405  Ampiarm's  ina  d'  Arieón25,  mani  gresed  Nephtuin,  dea  in  mara, 
in  11-ech3  sin  cor-ba  le  tosach  na  comlifga4 ;  7  ger-ua  taisci5  528 
Arieón25  .i.  ech  Adraist  andsi»,  ba  coscrach  Ampiaraiis.    Tuc  tra 
int  ardri  Adraist  tairbert6  set  -j  maine  da7  Ampiaraus  .i.  dont 
[s]acart   mor  ar  buaid8  na  co?nlenga  sin  da  breith  .i.   copan 

24ioalai?id  orda  asa  n-ibead  Earcail  mac  Ampitfrionis9  fleada  fina; 
-j  robatar  andsin  arna  ri/idad  delba  na  Ceana'tuiri  cosnomoch  7  na  536 
Lafitecda10  lanchalma  7  delb  Marsisibiea  rigan  na  Cichloisc[th]en 
o  tuc  Ercail  na  hairm  irgantacha  .i.  each  ri  dochid  hi  cind  chatha,. 
fuil  rochm'read  tara  bel  -j  dara  sroin,  tarn  7  taisi,  teiched  -j  timi 

24i5ticed  dona  sluagaib  echtrand12  dos-cid  a[c]  cur  chatha  eto?-ru 
fen  :  -|  delb  na  coscnr  comrumach  dorigne  Ercail  archena  sechnon 
in  domuin.   Et  tucad  d'  Admeit  [do]/?o,  da  thaisech  na  Tesailli. 
leand   chaew  corcorglan    co    nndelbaib   imda   arna    n-ileciir   d'  541 
orsnath13  inti.    Et  o  thuc  Adraist  na  haisceda  sin  i14  co?wartha 

2420  a  choscmV  do[n]  lucht  si»,  robui  a[c]  co?ndi[n]gnad  a  cleamna 
-j  tuc  banchuwail  n[d]?eir  do  seic15. 

Et  asa  haithli  sin  ronert16  Adraist  drem  dona  sluagaib  coisidib17  550 
do  cho?»lifig  chomretha  'na  fiadnaisi.  Rofrecrad  esium  iman  553 
ngni//i  sin.    Et  roerig  Idas  re  chach,  -j  is  amlaid  robui  -j  coroin18  577 

2425  coscmr  comlenga  rue  i  sleb  Olimp  ima  chend,  7  as  iad  ba  sloig 
doson  lucht  Pisa  7  Eliis  .i.  na  cathrach  sin.    Roerig  immorro  na 
diaid  sin  Alchon  croda  coscztrach  a  Sitsion.    Roerig 'na  diaid  si»  556 
Pedem us.    Ba  coscrach  comretha  fa  do  in  fer  sin  i  t?-aig  Ismis. 
Roerich  Dímás  ar  na  cintis19  e[i]ch  i  conireathaib  intan  ba  hoc, 

2430  acht  chena  fa  foraesta  andsin20  he.  Roerig  dono  Parthanapeus  no  561 
Parthanap,  rig  na  hArcaidi,  7  ua  subach  sluaig  in  aenaig  risin 
ngilla  sin,  7  ua  dual  am  deigrith21  don  fir  sin  o  mathair  .i.  0 
Athalanwta;  7  ba  do  luth  ana"  fhir  sin22  brith  arna  halltaib23  567 
diana  deigretha,  ar  luas  7  ar  lanrith ;  7  int  wrchur24  focherded 
1  Eg.  co  nach  2  Eg.  ropo  taisca  3  Eg.  int  ech  4  Eg.  gur-ua  tosach 
di  isin  coimling  s  Eg.  tajsca  6  Eg.  toirberta  '  Eg.  mained  do 

8  Eg.  .i.  do  Aimpiarus  .i.  sacait  mor  na  nGrecacTi  armbuaidh     9  E.  Amprionis 
10  Eg.  Laipetagadha  n  Eg.  mairsibisibea  rigon  na  cichloiscedha 

12  Eg.  teiched  om.:  echtronn      13  Eg.  d'orsnaithi      14  Eg.  sin  do      15  Eg.  ndoir 
do  sidheic  ,6  Eg.  roneitaig  17  E.  cosigib  18  Eg.  co  solin  =  <ré\ivov 

19  Eg.  coscurach  to  coscrach  om.:  cinndis  20  Eg.  haesta  in  fer  sin 

w  Eg.  deghretha  22  Eg.  luas  in  fir  sin  23  Eg.  breith  ar  na  healtaibh 

24  Eg.  int  orchor        25  Eg.  Arion 

154 


THE  THEBAID 

followed  her  till  there  was  none  before  him,  and  there  would  have 
been  a  lead  to  the  horses  of  Amphiaraus  rather  than  to  Arion, 
had  not  Neptune,  the  god  of  the  sea,  urged  that  horse  till  the 
first  place  of  the  race  was  hers ;  and  though  Arion,  to  wit,  the 
horse  of  Adrastus  there,  was  first,  Amphiaraus  was  victorious. 
Now  the  high-king  Adrastus  gave  a  gift  of  precious  things  and 
wealth  to  Amphiaraus,  to  wit,  to  the  great  priest,  for  bearing 
away  victory  in  that  race,  to  wit,  a  beautiful  gold  cup  from  which 
Hercules,  son  of  Amphitryon,  used  to  drink  draughts  of  wine ; 
and  carved  thereon  were  figures  of  the  contentious  Centaurs  and 
the  very  brave  Lapithae,  and  a  figure  of  Marsepia  queen  of  the 
Amazons,  from  whom  Hercules  took  the  wonderful  weapons,  to 
wit,  in  the  case  of  every  king  who  used  to  see  them- in  forefront 
of  battle,  blood  used  to  rush  from  his  mouth  and  nose,  stupor 
and  weakness,  flight  and  fear  would  come  to  the  foreign  hosts 
who  used  to  see  them,  causing  war  among  themselves :  and  a 
figure  of  all  the  battle  victories  which  Hercules  won  throughout 
the  world.  And,  again,  to  Admetus,  chief  of  Thessaly,  was  given 
a  beautiful  bright  purple  mantle  with  figures  in  it  manifold, 
fashioned  of  gold  thread.  And  when  Adrastus  had  given  those 
gifts  to  those  people  as  a  sign  of  their  victory,  he  was  comforting 
his  son-in-law,  and  gave  him  a  captive  female  slave. 

And  thereafter  Adrastus  encouraged  some  of  the  hosts  of  foot 
to  a  contest  in  running  in  his  presence.  He  was  answered  in  that 
matter.  And  Idas  uprose  before  the  rest,  and  thus  was  he  with 
a  crown  upon  his  head  for  victory  in  a  race  which  he  had  won  in 
mount  Olympus ;  and  these  were  his  hosts,  the  people  of  Pisa 
and  Elis,  to  wit,  of  those  cities.  After  him,  moreover,  arose  brave 
and  victorious  Alcon  from  Sicyon.  After  him  arose  Phaedimus. 
That  man  was  twice  victorious  in  a  race  on  the  strand  of  Isthmos. 
Dymas  arose,  whom  horses  could  not  excel  in  races  when  he 
was  young,  but  already  he  was  aged  there.  Parthenopaeus  (or 
Parthanap),  king  of  Arcadia,  also  arose,  and  the  hosts  of  the  fair 
were  joyous  at  that  youth  ;  and  indeed  good  running  was  heredi- 
tary to  him  from  his  mother,  to  wit,  Atalanta ;  and  the  suppleness 
of  that  man  was  such  as  to  catch  the  swift  well-running  deer  by 
speed  and  sheer  running ;  and  the  missile  he  used  to  cast  before 

155 


E.  30*  46  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  211*27 

2435  nam  remi,  conclised  ara  chi/vd  riasiu  roshoithead  taXmain.    Et   Vj  ' 
is  enidsin  rothaithmig  int  [sjiblaind  n-alaind  n-orda  robui  isin 
brut1  ca????  corrtharach,  -j  rochuir  de  he,  -j  roforruamnad  corp 
daithgel   deigdenmach2   in  deglaich   a  hola;    -j   rofwruamnad3  576 
[do]no  Idas  ~]  Dimas  ban  samla  cetna,  (col.  /3)  -\  ba  he  Idas  ba 

2440  derrscai[g]thi  delb  isin  chowilifg  sin  acht  Partarnapews  [a  Eg.]  583 
senur,  -j  ba  sine  Idas  inn  Parthanapews.    Rouadar  tra  na  fir  si?; 
ac  fromad4   a   luith  resiu  donetis  a  comlifg,  -j   o  racoraiged5 
comartha  in  chowretha6  accu,  roreithset  ua  chomaird  chomluith 
no  cor-scuch  each  secha  araili   dib,  -j  rochosain    Parthanapews 

2445  tosach  dib  uili  'siwn  uair  si??,  -\  ba  luaithit/W  re  sidi7  ngaithi 
ngemreta  in  tethad  -j  in  ten[n]ad8  rue  o  chach.    Et  is  e  ua  nesu  603 
do  Idas  athlom  aduathmar,  Pedimws  -\  Dimas  'na  ndiaid  seic9, 
-j  ua  gairit  etorru.    Ua  hathlum,  immorro,  Alcon  'na  ndiaid10  na  606 
f'er  sin.    Is  amlaid  tra  robui   Parthanapews  andsi??   -j   a  fholt 

245odualach  dearrscaigthech  scailti  dara  formna  siar  sechtair,  -j  0616 

raairig  Idós  cend  na  co???lenga  i  co/nfhacus  do,  -j  Parthanapews 

ac  dul  uad  chuici,  is  e  ni  doron??i,  rosin  in  laim,  -j  rogob  ar  bun 

inn  fhoilt11  fhada  fi/zdbuidi  si??  he,  -]  rotrascair  chuici  dar  ais12. 

0    'tchondcadar,    immorro,    na    hArcaidi    si??,    roergedar    d'618 

2455  indsaigi13  Idais  da  airlech,  -|  raergedar  sluaig  Pisa  -\  Elis  dia 
frithaileam14  sideic,  -j  is  de  si??  fa  mescbuaidirthi15  int  amach, 
-j  rotnallsad  int  senach  uili16  do  buaidred  co  mor.  Et  o  'tchualaig 
Adraist,  int  ardri,  si??,  roerig  do  thairmesc17  in  tachair,  -j  is  ed 
roraid:  "Traethar  bar  ferga,  a  firu,"  ar  se,  "-]  cai^cid  bar  coraruc,  627 

2460 -j  dentar  in  comrith  aris,  -\  na  lecar  i  comfhaews  sib.  Na  tuca 
nech  uaib  celc  'ma  cheli." 

Doronáud  tra  leo-siwm18  si??,  -j  tuc  Parthanapews  buaid  na 
comlenga  les  in  darna19  fecht,  -)  ba  samulta  na  taidled  in  \sXmain 
ara  luas  dorethad. 

2465      O  rascuired20  sin,  rotidnaiced  seoid21  -j  mai??e  doib  log  a  mbuada 
1  Eg.  brot  2  Eg.  in  deghlaich  deghdenmnaigh  3  Eg.  .i.  a  hola  7 

loforruamnttiV/      4  Eg  fromhadh      5  Eg.  coiiighsit      6  Eg.  an  comreththa  sin 
7  Eg.  sithe  8  Eg.  in  fcechuadh  7  in  tennadh  °  Eg.J«,a  dhiaidh  sen 

10  Eg.  a  ndiaid  u  Eg.  an  fhuilt  12  Eg.  rotraiscair  cuige  tara  ais  e 

13  E.  indsaidi    Eg.  rofregratar  d'innsaigidh  14  Eg.  da  frithalamh-sawi 

16  Eg.  ua  mescadha  buaidirtha        16  Eg.  uile  don  ffinach         "  Eg.  rotairmesc 

o 
18  E.  sin  19  Eg.  dara  20  Eg.  rosouirsit  21  E.  -peoro 

Eg.  seoit 

I56 


THE  THEBAID 

ahead  of  him,  he  used  to  perform  feats  in  front  of  it  before  it 
could  reach  earth.  And  there  he  undid  the  beautiful  gold  pin 
that  was  in  his  fair  fringed  mantle,  and  he  put  it  from  him,  and 
the  white-hued  goodly  fashioned  body  of  the  goodly  hero  was 
reddened  with  oil ;  and  Idas  and  Dymas  also  were  reddened  in 
the  same  way;  and  Idas  was  the  most  distinguished  as  to  form  in 
that  contest,  save  Parthenopaeus  alone,  and  Idas  was  older  than 
Parthenopaeus.  Now  those  men  were  testing  their  suppleness 
before  they  should  make  their  struggle ;  and  when  the  sign  for 
racing  was  arranged  with  them,  they  ran  abreast  with  equal 
suppleness,  until  they  separated  each  of  them  past  another,  and 
Parthenopaeus  won  first  place  from  them  all  at  that  time,  and  as 
swift  as  a  blast  of  winter  wind  was  the  flight  and  speed  [with 
which]  he  bore  away  from  every  one.  And  active  dreadful  Idas 
was  next  to  him,  Phaedimus  and  Dymas  next  to  him,  and  it  was 
a  short  space  between  them.  Active  was  Alcon,  moreover,  behind 
those  men.  Now  thus  was  Parthenopaeus  there  with  his  rippling 
distinguished  hair  loosely  outspread  over  his  shoulder  away  be- 
hind. And  when  Idas  perceived  the  goal  of  the  race  near  him, 
and  Parthenopaeus  going  away  from  him  unto  it,  this  is  what  he 
did,  he  stretched  forth  his  hand,  and  grasped  the  root  of  that  long 
fair  yellow  hair,  and  threw  him  down  towards  him  backwards. 

But  when  the  Arcadians  saw  that,  they  arose  and  made  for 
Idas  to  slay  him,  and  the  hosts  of  Pisa  and  Elis  arose  to  attend 
upon  him,  and  hence  the  fair  was  confused  and  troubled,  and  they 
essayed  to  trouble  the  whole  fair  greatly.  And  when  Adrastus 
the  high-king  heard  that,  he  arose  to  check  the  affray,  and  this 
is  what  he  said :  "  Let  your  angry  feelings  be  calmed,  O  men," 
said  he,  "  and  stop  your  conflict,  and  let  the  race  be  repeated, 
and  be  not  ye  allowed  in  close  proximity.  Let  none  of  you  prac- 
tise guile  on  his  fellow." 

Now  that~oone  by  them,  and  Parthenopaeus  bore  away  the 
victoiy  in  the  race  the  second  time,  and  it  was  like  as  if  he  did 
not  touch  the  earth  owing  to  the  speed  with  which  he  ran. 

When  that  ceased,  precious  things  and  wealth  were  given  them 
157 


E.  3o,J  34  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  2i3b  26 

.i.  ech  aibind  do  Parthanapeiis,  -j  sciath  alaind  aelgel  do  Idas   Vj  ' 
saeigti,  -]  saiged  do  chach  ar  cheana.  644 

Et  asa  haithli  sin  rocomtWallad  leo  cluichi  disci1  do  denunt  646 
.i.  cluichi  méisi.     Et  is  amlaid   donithea  in  cluichi  sm,   mias 
2470  adbulmor  iarai»d  no  umaidi  ar  uaitnedaib  iaraind  'na  lamaib, 
q  a  himpod  ima2  cuairt  -j  a  dibrucitd  i  clethi  seoir  -j  firma/nin.ti; 

I  mina   frithailtea3   aria    uar    ind    n-uaitni    cetna,    romarbad 
-j  romudaiged*  each  sen  robid  fuithi. 

Is  andsin  rogab  Adraist  lama5  ar  Perelass  im  ergi  dochmn  m  648 

2475  cluichi  sin.    Roerich  tra  -]   rochuir  in   mes  co  fersecha6  firard 
uada,  -j  robaclar  Greic7  sel  fada  'ca  fegad.    Et  is  iad  so  roerig 
da   frithaileam    ar   si??    .i.    dias   a    hAichis,    -j    tn'ur   a    hEfir8, 65 1 
-j  oenfher  a  Pisa,  -]  ua  he  in  sechtvaad  fer  Acharnam.    Roerig, 
immorro,  asa  haithli  sin,  (p.  31)  Ipomedow9  gruadsolns  1  mias  654 

2480  adbulmor  aile  ina  laim,  -j  is  ed  roraid :  "A  ocu,"  ar  se,  "gebid10 
in  meis  moir-sea  in  bar  lamaib,  uair  is  mo  is  feidmnert11  a 
tocbail  -j  a  tuirnem  i?ma  ni  triallaid,  -j  bid  rethi12  togla  ar 
to[t]hocht13  don  chathraig14  co^saigthi  .i.  don  Teib."  Et  rodibraig 
asa  haithli  sin  -\  nii--an  ga  hurnaidi16  aroen  risna  Grecaib  acht 

2485  mad  Flegias  -|  Menesthis  a  hAchain,  uair  ba  hecail  leo  tui?idseom  660 
-j  truma  na  mesi  sift  ara  met.    Et  arse  rofWthail  Flegias  calma 
comY\xma,c\\    'na   diaid   sm    in   mes.     Raroith    [in    meis    Eg.]  681 
-j  rochuir  a  n-aird  i  co  nar-ba  ler  iter  [na  Eg.]  nellaib  frasacha 
firmor[a  na  Eg.]  firmamiwti  i  ara  hardi  rochuir,  co  roseol  anuas 

2490  iar  si?i  dochum  thalman  co  dowiui/i  inti.    Et  robadar  Greic16  ac 
molad  in  gilli  [sin  Eg.]  co  mor  isi?m  uair  sin.    Et  rotn'all  aris  689 
in  fer  sin  a  dibrucwd,  -j  ni  riacht  les;  uair  rothoit  uad  hi  cen17696 
chummus  gan  cetugnd  do.    Roerig  Menestius  ar  sin  -j  rodibraic  698 
co  hathlum  -j  co  hard  hi.    Ipomodon9  immorro  rogob  ar  sin  hi ;  704 

2495  -j  ba  hairdi  roathchuir  uad  ina  gach  duni  riam  romi. 

Et  o  thairnic  in  cluichi  si?i,  tucad  crocend  taidlech  tigri  -j  cimas  722 
do  de?-gor  fair  'na  t/mnchell  do  Impomedo?)9,  -j  tucad  boga  garb- 
chuar  Gnoisecda18  do  Menestiws:  tucad  d&no19  claideb  lethan  725 

1  Eg.  rocoimtriallsat  cluithi  disca        2  Eg.  bimpo  'ma        3  Eg.  frithailtedh 
4  E.  romugaided  5  Eg.  lain  6  Eg.  meis  co  fersech  7  Eg.  Grecaigh 

8  Eg.  dias  a  hAicis  7  tiiur  a  hEfir  9  Eg.  Ipemedon  10  E.  gebig 

II  Eg.  nertmn/-  12  Eg.  réte  13  Eg.  toighecht  14  E.  chathraid 
15  E.  hurnaigi  Eg.  furnaigi  16  Eg.  Greeaig  17  Eg.  uadha  i  can 
18  Eg.  Gnoisegadha         19  Eg.  didiu 

I58 


THE  THEBAID 

as  a  reward  of  their  victories,  to  wit,  a  lovely  horse  to  Par- 
thenopaeus,  a  beautiful  lime-white  shield  to  wicked  Idas,  and  an 
arrow  to  all  the  rest. 

And  after  that  it  was  essayed  by  them  to  perform  the  game 
of  the  discus,  to  wit,  a  plate  game.  And  thus  that  game  was  per- 
formed, a  great  huge  plate  of  iron  or  brass  on  iron  supports  in 
their  hands,  and  to  whirl  it  round  and  cast  it  into  upper  regions 
of  air  and  firmament ;  and  unless  it  were  caught  again  by  the 
same  support,  it  would  kill  and  destroy  every  one  that  was 
under  it. 

Then  Adrastus  ordered  Pterelas  to  arise  for  that  game.  Ac- 
cordingly he  arose  and  sent  away  the  plate  manfully  and  very 
high,  and  the  Greeks  stood  for  a  long  time  looking  at  it.  And 
these  are  they  that  arose  to  attend  to  it  after  that,  to  wit,  two 
from  Achaia,  and  three  from  Ephyre,  one  from  Pisa,  and  one  of 
the  seven  was  Acarnan.  Moreover  after  that  arose  bright-cheeked 
Hippomedon  with  another  great  huge  plate  in  his  hand,  and  this 
is  what  he  said  :  "  Youths,"  said  he,  "  take  this  great  plate  in 
your  hands,  for  to  lift  it  and  lower  it  is  a  greater  feat  of  strength 
than  anything  ye  attempt,  and  it  will  be  a  battering  ram  on 
coming  to  the  city  ye. make  for,  to  wit,  Thebes."  And  after  that 
he  hurled  it,  and  there  remained  none  to  await  it  along  with 
the  Greeks  save  Phlegyas  and  Menestheus  from  Athens  0,  for 
they  were  afraid  of  the  impact  and  weight  of  that  plate  owing 
to  its  size.  And  nevertheless  brave  and  contentious  Phlegyas 
attended  to  the  plate  after  that.  He  projected  the  plate,  and 
sent  it  aloft,  so  that  it  was  not  visible  among  the  showery  very 
great  clouds  of  the  firmament  owing  to  the  height  he  hurled  it, 
till  it  took  its  course  downwards  after  that  unto  earth  and  deep 
therein.  And  the  Greeks  were  praising  that  lad  greatly  at  that 
time.  And  that  man  attempted  again  to  hurl  it,  and  he  could 
not ;  for  it  fell  from  him  without  his  power  or  permission. 
Menestheus  arose  after  that,  and  hurled  it  dexterously  and  high. 
Hippomedon,  however,  caught  it  after  that;  and  higher  did  he 
hurl  it  again  than  any  man  ever  did  before  him. 

And  when  those  games  were  finished,  a  glossy  tiger's  skin 
having  round  about  upon  it  a  fringe  of  red  gold,  was  given 
to  Hippomedon  and  a  rough  bent  Cretan  bow  was  given  to 
Menestheus :  also  a  broad  full-sharp  sword  that  had  belonged  to 

159 


E.  3ia  28  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  2i4a  26 

langer  ac  Pilascen<s  ac  senathair1  Adraist  do  Plieigias,  luag  a    ^e, 
2500  cluichi  mesi2. 

Et  ni  ba  setrech  do  chomorad  cluichi  chest  na  cwraid  isan  uair 
sin,  cein  mata3  Capanetts,  robui  'na  stuaig  bodba  aduathmair 
urbada,  aca  iarraid  bar  na  sluagaib  nech  dib4  d'ergi  'na  agaid, 

I  a  lamanda  tarbda5  tachair  ima  lamaib,  co  n-iallaib  rofhada 
2505  a  cennaib  a  mer,  co  mellaib  lantroma6  luaidi  uara  cendaib  seic. 

Et  is  ed  roraid :   "  Ticed   oenloech  uaib,  a  fhiru,"  ar  se,  "am  734 
agaid7  don  cluichi  cest,  7  robod  maith  lim  co  mad  threnfer  do 
Tiauandaib  tisad  and,  uair  rofaethsad8  limsa  he  isiwn  uair-sea."  738 
Ba  socht  mor  re  Grecaib  sin,  7  rogob  urecla  adbul  iad  remi,  756 

25101  gid  ead  doerich9  loech  lanoc  do  Lacondaib  da  i»dsaigid  .i. 
Alacidamas.    Ba  machtad10  tra  re  Grecaib  ergi  do,  uair11  ba  hoc  740 
arai  n-aisi12,  ger-ua  athlom  n-engnoma  ;  -j  ba  he  Pullux  ua  hseiti13 
engno/na  7   cluichi  cest  (col.  /3)  don  gilla  sin.    O  'dchondairc  747 
Capanews  cuci  he,  roches  air  co  mor,  7  robai  ac  f'aithfed14  7  ac 

2515  fochuidmed  immi  7  ac  iarraidh  fhir  aili  marsen  ris  'na  agaid. 
Ni  [a]r  timi  na  [a]r15  teichead  dochuaid  d'  Alcidamas16  sin  ;  acht 
rocomfergaid  co  fersech  7  co  fircruaidh  in  n-agaid  Capenei«'s,  co 
rothocbadar17  na  lama  lanchalma  aiiial  saaignena  suaichinti18 
sobisda  do  chomamns  cuirp  araili.    Ba  hecalma  re  Grecaib19  bas 

2520  d'  [fh]agbail  clon  maccsera  d' Alcidamas20  andsin,  uair  ua  haclbul 
met  -j  miri21  in  mi\ed  robai  ina  agaid  .i.  Capane«.s-,  uair  nir- 
commor  coraid  ar  t&lmain  risin  trenfer  si;j.  Robai  tra  Alcidamas 
co  feithmech  firglicc  aca  [fhjrithalam.  Roopair-s/iwn  immorro 
co  hacgarb  -]  co  hanacarach22  in  maccoem,  -j  rws-timchill  amal  754 

2525  timchillis  feith  fida,  no  &mal  timchillis  tond  mara  moradbail  777 
cairrgi  cuain  -j  calaid23.   Ro[fh]reastail  -|  ro[fh]rithoil  Alcidamas24 
si??,  -]  ni  teiged  bem  i  [njdilsi  na  [i]  ndilmaine25  uad  gan  a  buaiw 
do  Chapaneus  i  cleithi26  i  chind  7  dar  tulport  a  gnuisi  co  ma 
forde?-g  fuilidi27  a  fholt  7  a  aiged.    Is  andsin  rodasac/iiaiged  im  783 

1  Eg.  dobi  ac  Pilasceius  ag  senathair  2  Eg.  mese  3  Eg.  curadh...motha 
4  Eg.  doibhi  5  Eg.  tarbha  •  Eg.  lantromma  7  E.  ^5^15 

Eg.  aigid  8  Eg.  rotsesad  9  Eg.  roeridh  10  Eg.  machtnugud 

II  Eg.  a  ergbi  uair  12  Eg.  ar  n-ais  13  Eg.  baide  14  Eg.  faitfed 
15  Eg.  Ni  ar  time  na  ar  16  Eg.  Alccidarnas  17  Eg.  gurrotogabadar 
18  Eg.  suaichinta  19  Eg.  Ua  hecail  la  Grecaib  20  E.  da  d'  Eg.  macam 
d'  Alcidamas  21  Eg.  7  mire  22  Eg.  co  haracarrach  23  Eg.  cua>i...E.  calaig 
24  Eg.  Alcidamas     25  Eg.  a  ndilsi  na  a  ndilmaine     26  Eg.  a  cleth  a     27  E.  fuiligi 

160 


THE  THEBAID 

Pelasgus,  Adrastus'  grandfather,  was  given  to  Phlegyas  as  a 
reward  for  their  discus  play. 

And  the  heroes  were  not  strong  for  celebrating  the  game  of 
cestus  at  that  time,  except  Capaneus,  who,  as  an  awful  baleful 
arch  of  war,  was  asking  of  the  hosts  that  one  of  them  should  rise 
against  him,  with  his  bull-hide  gloves  for  an  affray  on  his  hands 
with  very  long  thongs  from  the  points  of  his  fingers,  and  full- 
heavy  masses  of  lead  on  the  ends  of  these.  And  this  is  what  he 
said  :  "  Let  one  hero  of  you,  O  men,"  said  he,  "come  against  me 
at  the  cestus  game,  and  I  should  prefer  that  it  were  a  champion 
of  the  Thebans  that  should  then  come,  for  he  would  fall  by  me 
at  this  time."  A  great  silence  was  that  for  the  Greeks,  and  vast 
dismay  seized  them  before  him ;  and  yet  a  very  young  Spartan 
hero,  to  wit,  Alcidamas,  rose  to  oppose  him.  Now  amazement 
was  on  the  Greeks  that  he  should  rise,  for  he  was  young  as  regards 
age,  though  he  was  expert  in  prowess  ;  and  Pollux  was  that  lad's 
instructor  in  prowess  and  in  the  game  of  cestus.  When  Capaneus 
saw  him  approaching,  he  greatly  grumbled  at  him,  and  was 
laughing  and  jeering  at  him,  and  asking  another  man  along  with 
him  to  oppose  him.  Not  to  fear  or  to  flight  did  that  move 
Alcidamas ;  but  he  became  angry  manfully  and  very  fiercely  at 
Capaneus  till  they  raised  very  brave  hands  like  emblazoned 
bright  thunderbolts,  each  to  strike  the  other's  body.  The  Greeks 
had  misgivings  that  the  youth  Alcidamas  would  die  there,  for  vast 
was  the  size  and  fury  of  the  soldier  that  was  opposed  to  him,  to 
wit,  Capaneus;  for  no  hero  on  earth  was  so  big  as  that  champion. 

Alcidamas,  on  the  other  hand,  was  cautiously  and  very  shrewdly 
waiting  for  him.  But  he  attacked  the  youth  fiercely  ruthlessly 
and  compassed  him  about  as  honeysuckle  encompasses  woods,  or 
as  a  great  huge  sea  wave  encompasses  rocks  of  a  haven  and 
harbour.  Alcidamas  provided  for  and  attended  to  that,  and 
no  blow  went  from  him  in  over-confidence  or  vacuity  without 
striking  Capaneus  on  the  top  of  the  head  or  the  front  part 
of  his  face,  so  that  his  hair  and  his  face  were  crimson  and 
c  161  11 


E.  3ib  23  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  2i4b  26 

253oCapaneas  amaZ  leoman  londletarthi1,  -j  rogob  ac  toirmm  7  ac   Vj  ' 
trascrad  Alciadamais  o  brathbuilleadaib  mora  mileta.  Ba  dimain  787 
am  dosom  sin,  uair  roimdeagail  Alcidiamos  he  co  na  ruacht  lot 
no  lanbrised  fair;  7  rouadar  amlaid  sin  re  re  ciana2  co  rothuitset  798 
ara  ngluinib  cirmn  cowfillti  re  scis  a  n-iwbuailti.     Et  gid  ed 

2535  roerich  each   dib  aris   dochum   a   cheli,   7    ag   ergi   doib,   tuc 
Alcidamc/s  bem   ceisti3  do  Chapanet/,s  co  torchair  7  cleithi4  a  803 
chendmullaich    remi    chum    lair   -j    lantalman,    7    ag    eri    do, 
roathbuail  aris  he  co  runuallsad  na  sluaig  ac  aicsin  in  gnima 
sin.    Roaitherig  immorro  Capanews  co  hacarb  aduathmar  da 

254odigail  sin  ar  Al[cjidamas.    Et  o  'tothondairc  Adraist  anni  sin, 
is  ed  roraid  :  "A  fhiru,"  ar  se,  "  ederdelaigter  lib  na  milid  rasu  809 
rafseth5  nechtar  dib  re  'roili  inn  ecomlaind6,  -j  tabar  lib  seoit 

7  maine  da  Capanews  do  thairmesc  a  fergi."    Roergedar7  andsin 

da  ndegail8  Tid  -j  Ipomedon.    Ua  doilig  am  eterscarad  na  desi  813 

2545  si?i  re  med  na  fergi  firmoiri  roforbair  intib,  -j  roraidsed-siM??i  re 
Capane«/s:  "  Tairiííd  t'  [fhjeirg,"  ar  siad,  "a  ri,  -j  tabair  maithem  816 
n-anocail  uaid  don  gilla  oc-sa,  uair  is  lindi  luamaireac/^  in 
laich-sea."    Nir-[fh]aem9  thra  (p.  32)  Capawews,  7  is  ed  roraid :  819 
"A  firu,"  ar  se,  "  cindus  leicfet  uaim  in  gilla  n-oc10,  roimir  imned 

2550 -j  edualand  orum,  gan  a  mordigail  air11?"  Et  gid  ed  rucsad  a 
muinter  leo  he,  7  rodeligsed  iad  amlaid  Bin,  7  rouadar  munter 
Alcidamais  ac  genaib  gaeire  im  Capaneus. 

Et   o   thairnic    in   cluichi   sin,    roerig   Tit   mac    Oeniwsa   7  826 
rofuacair  caraigec/ti  7  comglic  andsin  uar  na  sluagaib.    Et  is  e 

2555  roerig  da  i?;dsaigid  Agileus  mac  Ercail,  7  ba  medithir  re  hArcail  837 
mac  Am-phitrionis  ar  met  -j  ar  mesnig  in  milid  sin,  uair  ba  da 
sil  do.    Tid,  immorro,  is  amlaid  robui  seic12,  fer  isel  taile  tarbda  843 
tren  calma  athlom  ocla  anacarach13.    Ua  tren  7  ua  tarcaisnech14 
ar  gach  n-oen  tecmad  ris. 

2560      Et  rogobad15  ola  cho??i[sh]lemm'n  ewmaseda  da  churp  isi?m  uair  847 
sin,  -j  roerig  dochum  Agileus.    Is  andsin  roiad  each  dib  a  lama  7 

1  Eg.  londletban  letartha     2  Eg.  cian     s  Eg.  ara  chéle...cheste     4  Eg.  cleth 
5  Eg.  resiu  dofhaith  6  Eg.  a  n-ecomlainrf  7  Eg.  Eoergitar 

8  Eg.  da  ndegail  9  Eg.  Nir-faem  10  Eg.  ócc-sa  n  Eg.  form  7  edfhuala/ii/ 
gan  a  digail  fair  12  Eg.  sin  .i.  13  Eg.  anacarrtkach  14  Eg.  tartcaisnech 
15  Eg.  7  rogab 

IÓ2 


THE  THEBAID 

covered  with  blood.  Then  Capaneus  became  maddened  like  a 
wildly  mangling  lion,  and  he  began  to  pull  down  Alcidamas  and 
lay  him  low  with  great  martial  lethal  blows.  Vain  indeed  was 
that  for  him,  for  Alcidamas  defended  himself  so  that  no  wound 
or  full  fracture  reached  him  ;  and  thus  they  remained  for  a  long 
time,  till  they  fell  upon  their  fair  bended  knees  owing  to  the 
fatigue  of  their  mutual  smiting.  And  yet  each  of  them  arose  again 
and  approached  his  fellow,  and  as  they  were  rising,  Alcidamas 
dealt  a  cestus  blow  at  Capaneus,  so  that  he  fell  with  the  top  of 
his  crown  towards  ground  and  teeming  earth,  and  as  he  was 
rising,  he  struck  him  again,  and  the  hosts  shouted  as  they  saw 
that  deed.  Capaneus,  however,  rose  again  fiercely  and  dreadfully 
to  avenge  that  on  Alcidamas.  And  when  Adrastus  saw  that 
thing,  he  said  :  "  Men,"  said  he,  "  let  the  soldiers  be  separated  by 
you  before  either  of  them  fall  by  the  other  in  unhappy  conflict, 
and  let  precious  things  and  wealth  be  given  by  you  to  Capaneus 
to  appease  his  wrath."  Then  Tydeus  and  Hippomedon  arose  to 
separate  them.  It  was  difficult,  indeed,  to  sunder  those  twain, 
owing  to  the  extent  of  the  very  great  anger  that  waxed  in  them  ; 
and  they  said  to  Capaneus  :  "  Allay  thine  anger,"  said  they,  "  O 
king,  and  vouchsafe  a  grant  of  quarter  from  thee  to  this  young 
lad,  for  ours. is  the  pilotage  of  this  hero."  Capaneus,  on  the 
other  hand,  «Gould  notfand  he  said :  "  Men,"  said  he,  "  how  shall 
I  let  off  the  young  lad,  who  has  contrived  to  bring  trouble  and 
hardship  upon  me,  without  taking  ample  vengeance  on  him  ? " 
And  yet  his  people  brought  him  with  them,  and  thus  separated 
them  ;  and  the  people  of  Alcidamas  uttered  jeers  of  laughter  at 
Capaneus. 

And  when  that  game  was  finished,  Tydeus  son  of  Oeneus 
arose,  and  challenged  the  hosts  to  wrestling  and  a  fall  there.  And 
he  that  rose  to  oppose  him  was  Agylleus  son  of  Hercules,  and 
that  soldier  was  in  size  and  courage  as  huge  as  Hercules  son  of 
Amphitryon,  for  he  was  of  his  seed.  As  for  Tydeus,  however,  he 
was  thus — a  man  low,  stout,  bull-like,  strong,  brave,  dexterous, 
bold,  ruthless.  He  was  strong  and  contemptuous  towards  every 
one  that  chanced  to  oppose  him. 

And  smooth  mixed  oil  was  applied  to  his  body  at  that  time, 
and  he  arose  to  approach  Agylleus.  Then  each  of  them  closed  his 
163  11-2 


E.  32*  17  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  21 4C  25 

a  rigthi  dar  araili,  co  ma  samalta  re   seolc/Vrand   primluingi    VJ 
moiri    no    re    ralaig    roaird    os    mincrandaib    firbeca   fidbaidi 
Ageleúts11  os  ciwd  Tit  andsin  aca  thairni???1  -j  'ga  trascrad.    Et  ger 

1565  ua  lugu  Tit,  ua  tendi  -j  ua  talchairi  e  isinn  uair  sin,  co  rotimsaig 
1  co  rothimairg  Ageleiws11,  -j  co  rotrascair  dochum  lair  -\  Ian-  887 
talma??.    Rocengail  -j  rocuibrig  'na  diaid  sin  i  fiadnaisi  na  nGrec  902 
[uile  Eg.]  he,  -j  tucaid2  aisceada  [a  Eg.]  comartha  a  choscair  do  905 
arsin.    Robui  ac  braisi  -j  ac  bocasaich  uasa  cind,  -j  tuc  da  muntiV  910 

:57oiad;  -]  ar  n-ergi  do  Agillems11  co  hoband  mertnech  asa  chengal,  903 
tuc  Adraist  luirig  n-irathrui???,  n-iaramd  do  log  a  chluichi9  do  910 
c/*o??imorad. 

Et  asa  haithli  si??  roergedar  dias  dib  do  cluichi  d'  armaibon 
aithgera  urnochta  .i.  Agresiws  mac  [sic]   Epidaur,  -j  VoMnices 

1575  mac  Eidip.  Rothairmisc  immorro  int  airdri  Adraist  iad,  -j  is  ed 
roraid:  "  Na  denaid  cathugud,  a  fhiru,"  ar  se,  "cein  no  co  ros/ti 
tachur  na  Tebi,  uair  dogebthai  uar  ndaithi??3  cathaigthi  -j 
comlaind  inti."    Et  rothairmisced  iad  amlaid  si??.. 

Is    andsi?i   adubradar   airig   na   nGrec4   risin    n-airdrig    re 

:  580  h Adraist  a  chuid  dona  cluichib  do  denam  comad  moidi  onoir 
ind  n-adnocail5.  "  Dogentar,"  ar  se,  -j  roerig.  Is  e  ni  doronm, 
rodibraic6  saigid  a  fidbaic  ibraide  co  setrech  sirchalma  co 
ndechaid  uad  re  hed,  7  amal  ba  tresi  di  ac  dul,  roi//?po7  co 
hathlum    opund   ar  culu  d'  indsaigid   in  rig  r?is-telg.    Et   ba 

!585fidgrad  faisti??e  acu-su??i  sin,  uair  is  ed  rothuiced  asa  sin6 
Adraist  a  oenur  do  termini  (col.  fS)  a  cathugnd  na  Tebi  -j  a 
rochtai??  ar  culu  co  cn'chaib  G/-ec. 

Conid  cainiud  Airsemaris  -]  a  cluicheda  cainteacha  conigi  sin. 


VII 

0  tarnic  tra  in  cluichi  caintecha  sin,  rodoirt  Ad?-aist  fin  aran  vn  ' 
;59oadnocol,  -j  robui  ac  molad9  in  gilla  amal  dea10  uasal  adartha,  -j  is  90 

ed  roraid :  "A  ím'c,"  ar  se,  "dogentar  amal  so  idbarta  ac  Grecaib  93 

1  Eg.  a  rithe...aca  tairnedh  2  Eg.  tucaclh  3  Eg.  claothaiw 
4  Eg.  amlauZ  iad...oirigh  na  Greci  5  Eg.  do  comoradh  coma  moidi  onoir 
in  adhnocail  6  Eg.  diubraic  7  Eg.  roimpi  8  Eg.  as  sin 
9  Eg.  an  cluichi... a  moladh                10  Eg.  amal  dei                u  Eg.  Aigeleus 

164 


THE  THEBAID 

hands  and  arms  over  the  other,  so  that  like  a  mast  of  a  great 
principal  ship,  or  a  very  lofty  oak  over  very  small  saplings  of  a 
wood  was  Agylleus  above  Tydeus  then,  while  pulling  down  and 
overthrowing  him.  Yet  though  Tydeus  was  smaller,  he  was 
keener  and  more  resolute  at  that  time,  so  that  he  pressed  in 
Agylleus  and  controlled  him,  and  threw  him  to  ground  and 
teeming  earth.  After  that  he  tied  and  bound  him  in  presence 
of  all  the  Greeks  ;  and  thereupon  gifts  to  mark  his  victory  were 
given  him.  He  was  talking  big  and  in  self-complacency  on  the 
score  of  them,  and  he  gave  them  to  his  people.  And  on  Agylleus' 
arising  quickly  and  weakly  from  his  fetter,  Adrastus  gave  him  a 
very  heavy  corslet  of  iron  as  a  reward  to  emphasise  his  game. 

And  after  that  two  of  them  arose  to  play  with  very  sharp 
quite  naked  weapons,  to  wit,  Agreus  of  Epidaurus,  and  Polynices 
son  of  Oedipus.  But  the  high-king  Adrastus  1j£Stl'am5jl^e/£?> 
and  said  :  "  Do  no  fighting,  O  men,"  said  he,  "  untirfh  ptrny&i 
ifc&e^cmno3,  for  ye  shall  get  your  fill  of  fighting  and  conflict 
therein."    And  thus  they,  were  resti'ained. 

Then  the  chiefs  of  the  Greeks  told  the  high-king  Adrastus  to 
do  his  part  of  the  games,  so  that  the  honour  to  the  sepulture 
might  be  the  greater.  "  It  shall  be  done  ! "  said  he,  and  he  arose. 
This  is  what  he  did,  he  shot  an  arrow  of  his  bow  of  yew  strongly 
and  very  bravely,  so  that  it  went  from  him  for  a  space,  and  as  it 
was  going  at  its  strongest,  it  turned  actively  and  quickly  back 
to  the  king  who  shot  it.  And  that  was  with  them  a  figure  of 
prophecy,  for  from  that  it  was  understood  that  Adrastus  alone 
should  return  from  the  war  of  Thebes,  and  arrive  back  at  the 
confines  of  Greece. 

So  that  it  is  the  mourning  for  Archemorus  and  his  funeral 
games  thus  far. 


BOOK  VII 

Now  when  those  funeral  games  were  ended,  Adrastus  poured 

wine  upon  the  grave,  and  he  was  praising  the  lad  as  a  noble  god 

to  be  worshipped,  and  this  is  what  he  said :  "  Son,"  said  he, 

"  offerings  like  these  will  be  made  to  thee  by  all  Greeks  every 

165 


E.  32b  8  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  2i4d  28 

uili  gacha  hliadna  duid-seo,  -j  da  taet1  lindi  tigi  na  Tebi  tret  Vj, ' 
chumachtii-su,  bidid  mo  honoir2  idbarta  aris  acairadi."    Et  is  ed  10 1 
sin  ba  hail  do  Grecaib  uili  da  rad. 

2595      As  i  sin,  immorro,  ses  -j  uair  dobi  imshnim  mor  ar  menmai»  1 
Ioib  mic  SattaVn,  uair  [ua  Eg.]   fada  les-[s]n?n  comnaidi3   na 
nGrec   i   n-i??gnais   in   chatha,   -\    is   andsin    tucad  a   mac   .i.  5 
Mearcmr  dochum  Ioib,  -]  is  ed  roraid  ris:  "Erig,"  ar  se,  "d'14 
indsaigid  Mairt,  dea  in  chatha,  -j  abair  risna  Gm'c  d'  adandad4 

1600  dochum  in  catha."  Et  roerig  Mercuir  -7  (dosiacht5)  co  tigib 
seselbacha  Mairt,  rm'c  Ioib,  dea  na  cath  -j  na  con  gal,  -j  raid  ris 
(na  Gm'c6)  -]  na  Tiabanda  do  chur  a  cend  a  chele. 

Roerig   tra   Mairt   lasi?i   ngresacht    sin,   -\    tanic   remi   dar  105 
trachtaib  traga  Eipir  co  mullach  slebi  Acorintws  iter  in  muir 

2605  nlond  iar  n-airthiur  -\  muir  nEig  ar  n-iaxtkur1.    Roscail  uad  127 
andsiw    ecla   -j    aduath,    ferg  -j   fuasnad   ba  sluagaib  Grec,  co 
rolingsedar8  menmanda  risin  fogur  bres9  adchualadar  i  firma- 
mint  uasa  cind10  -j  risin  seel  n-aduathmar  u-urbadach  sin.    Et  133 
rocraith  a  slega  -j  a  sceith,  -j  rotrenbuail  a  eocho  uas11  cind  na 

:6iosluag,  cor-gab  saint  -|  ailgms  catha  -j  comlaind  na  curaid  isinn 
uair  sin  risin  ng?-esacht  -j  risin  laidiud12  sin  tuc  Mairt  mac  Ioib 
forru. 

0  'tchondairc,  immorro,  Baich  mac  Ioib,  dei  inn  [fhjina13,  na  145 
Greic  'na  mbuidnib  deg[sh]luaig  a[c]  comlugwd14  dochum  na15 

25i5Tebei,  tucad  iachtad16  -\  osnaid  mor  os  aird,  -j  taiwic  remi  d' 
indsaig  a  athar  .i.  Ioib,  -|  roloig17  ina  fhiadnaisi,  -7  dabui18  ac  154 
iarraid  fortachta  dona  Tiabandaib  air,  -j  is  ed  roraid :  "  Is  ole  a 
ndenaid,"  ar  se,  "  a  Ioib  comorad  catha  i  cend  na  Tiauanda  -j  a 
tir  do  thogail  forru19,  -j  doberi-siu20  do  gach  dei  aili  comairci  in 

262ochiniuda  is  dual  do  -\  ni  thabraid  damsa.  Uair  is  i  Simile,  ingen 
rig  na  Tebi,  mo  mathair21,  ~\  da[fh]etar22  is  i  Iunai??d  ilerothach 
dobeir  ortsu  in  ainileas23  aiin  fath  sm." 

1  Eg.  duitsi  7  do  thaeth  2  Eg.  tre  do  c.-si  bidh  mo  a  haraoir  3  E.  comnaigi 
4  Eg.  Grecaibh  d'  adondadTi  5  Eg.  doriacht  6  Eg.  Greccaihli 
7  Eg.  iar  n-iartbi/r  8  Eg.  rolingiustar  9  Eg.  bresmaidm 
10  Eg.  a  fimiaminti  osa  cend  u  Eg.  uasa  12  Eg.  risin  uair...laighedh 
13  Eg.  in  fina  14  Eg.  eomli(ú/i"  15  E.  na  repeated  16  Eg.  iachtna</// 
17  Eg.  roluigh  18  Eg.  rouai  19  E.  furru  20  Eg.  dobcridhsiu 
21  Eg.  in/jen  ri...matbair-si                22  Eg.  dofetar-sa                23  Eg.  an  aimles 

166 


THE  THEBAID 

year,  and  if  the  houses  of  Thebes  fall  by  us  through  thy  power, 
we  shall  have  greater  honour  in  sacrificing  again."  And  that  is 
what  all  Greeks  would  have  wished  to  say. 

That,  however,  was  the  time  and  hour  when  great  anxiety  was 
in  the  mind  of  Jove  son  of  Saturn,  for  he  felt  it  irksome  that  the 
Greeks  should  stay  away  from  the  war,  and  then  was  brought  his 
son  Mercury  to  Jove,  and  this  is  what  he  said  to  him :  "Arise," 
said  he,  "  and  go  to  Mars  the  god  of  war,  and  tell  the  Greeks  to 
be  kindled  unto  the  war."  And  Mercury  arose  and  arrived  at 
the  tumultuous  houses  of  Mars,  son  of  Jove,  the  god  of  battles 
and  conflicts,  and  told  him  to  put  the  Greeks  and  the  Thebans 
at  variance  with  one  another. 

Now  Mars  arose  at  that  incitement,  and  advanced  over  the 
shores  of  the  strand  of  Ephyre  to  the  top  of  mount  Acrocorinthus 
between  the  Ionian  sea  in  the  East  and  the  ^Egean  in  the  West, 
Thence  he  scattered  fear  and  dread,  wrath  and  tumult  through 
hosts  of  Greeks,  so  that  their  minds  started  at  the  crashing  noise 
they  heard  in  the  firmament  above  their  heads  and  at  that  awful 
baleful  tale.  And  he  shook  his  spears  and  his  shields,  and  starkly 
struck  his  horses  overhead  above  the  hosts,  so  that  importunity 
and  lust  of  battle  and  conflict  seized  the  heroes  at  that  time 
owing  to  that  incitement  and  exhortation  which  Mars  son  of 
Jove  bestowed  upon  them. 

But  when  Bacchus,  son  of  Jove,  god  of  wine,  saw  the  Greeks 
in  their  companies  of  a  goodly  host  lying  down  close  on  Thebes, 
a  yell  and  \j,  great  sigh  were  uttered  aloud,  and  he  came  forward 
to  Jove  his  father,  and  bowed  down  in  his  presence,  and  was 
asking  of  him  help  for  the  Thebans,  and  this  is  what  he  said : 
"  It  is  ill  ye  do,"  said  he,  "  0  Jove,  in  promoting  war  against  the 
Thebans  and  destroying  their  land  upon  them,  seeing  thou  givest 
to  every  other  god  protection  for  the  race  that  is  hereditary  to 
him,  and  ye  do  not  give  it  to  me.  For  Semele,  daughter  of  the 
king  of  Thebes,  is  my  mother,  and  I  know  it  is  Juno  of  many 
charms  that  makes  thee  to  thwart  me  for  that  reason." 
167 


E.  32b  4«  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  215a  29 

0  'tchualaigh  (p.  33)  Ioib  sin  rotib  a  gin  figairi1  'ma  mac,  -j  v* ' 
rothairbir  poicc  do,  -j  adbert  ris :  "  A  mic,"  ar  se,  "  ni  fich  na  193 

2625  ferg  dobeir  orum  comorad  in  chatha-sa.  Acht  [is  ed2  Eg.]  ro- 
chindsead  faidi  -j  fisid  o  thits  domuin  co  czwrfithea3  in  cath 
croda-sa  na  Tebi.  Et  na  bid  ecla  ortsu,  a  Baich,  togail  na  Tebi 
don  chur-sa,  -j  amre  dlestis  a  n-olc4  do  denam,  uair  is  adbul  a 
n-ecoiri."    Ba  forbailid5  Baich  dona  scelaib  sin. 

2630      A  ndala-sum  coruigi6  si??. 

Dala,  immorro,  na  Tiauanda,  ranic  techtairi  tairisi  da  munttV  227 
co  hEcliodes,  co  rig  na  Tebi,  -]  roi/?dis  do  rigrad  na  nGrec7  cona 
sluagaib  -j  cona  socAraitib  i  comfhocus  do  muigib  tondglasa  na  229 
Tebi.    Ba  truag  immorro  -j  ba  tindesnácA8  risna  Tiauandaib,  in 

2635  gach  inad  a  robadar,  na  scela  aidbli  sin  do  chloisteac/<£.  Is 
andsin  tra  rothinoilit  dochum  EthiocWs  a  sluaig  -j  a  sochraidi 
-|  a  shuind  chatha  -j  a  fhuird  irgaili9  co  faichthi  fondglais  a 
duin10  -j  a  cathrach. 

Tochestul  -j  tinol  na  Tiabanda  andso. 

2640      Et   desid11   andsin   each   drem   degsluaig  'ma  tn'ath   -j    'ma 
thigerna  do  neoch  thanic  a  hEonia  -]  a  hEobia  -j  a  Pótcis  -]  a  235 
cathrachaib  na  Tiauanda  ar  cheana.    Roergetar  immorro,  mna  -] 
macaim12  ■]  mi»daine,  -j  rolinsadar13  muir  na  cathrach  *j  dumacha 
aili  airechtais14  ac  fegad  int  [sh]luaig  sin. 

2645      Is  and  [dojno  robui15  inn  og  ilehrothach  .i.  Antigone,  deirbfiur16  243 
Etiocles  -j  Polinices,  i  tur  roard  romor  sel  o  mur  na  cathrach  siu 
amach.    Uair  is  ed  ba  bes  acusum  gan  sluaig  -j  gan  sochaidi  da 
fhaiscin  a  n-i?igen,  no  co  fyeitis17  re  feraib.    Et  ba  ler  disi  andsi?i 
tochim  na  sluag  uaithi  uar  in  faichthi18,  -\  ni  ba  ler  daibsium 

2650  isi.    Et  as  e  robi  'na  farrad  andsin  Phorfas  foirfi19  fireolach  .i.  fer  253 
grada  a  hathar  -\  a  sseanathar  eseo?n20,  -j  a  hoiti.    Et  rogob-si 
'ga  fhiarfaigi   de :  "  Cia  in  sluag  romor-sa  iter?"  ar  si,   "-j21 
atchimsea,"  ar  si,  "  mergeda  mi»glana22  Meinidcews  corcargloin 
-j  airm  croda  Creoin23  cosc?,aig."    Ro[fh]recair24,  immorro,  Porfas 


1  Eg.  gen  gaire       2  Eg.  is  ed  cinr/edh       3  Eg.  curfedea 

4  Eg.  7  is  rnaith 

do  dlisfidh  a  n-ulc          5  E.  forbailig          6  Eg.  conuigi          7 

Eg.  co  ri...Greci 

8  Eg.  fcindenus   E.  MS.  tampered  with          9  Eg.  a  n-urrigh 

10  Eg.  a  dhainfi 

11  Eg.  deisidh   E.  desig        12  E.  meal         13  Eg.  rolinatar 

14  Eg.  dumadha 

aille  oirechai«            15  Eg.  roluidh            16  Eg.  derbhsiur 

17  Eg.  feethidis 

18  Eg.  ar  in  faiclie       19  Eg.  Porfas  foirbhfhi       20  Eg.  eisium 

21  Eg.  ar  si  7 

22  Eg.  niamglana                23  Eg.  Creone                24  Eg.  Rofregair 

168 

THE  THEBAID 

When  Jove  heard  that,  he  smiled  his  laughing  smile  at  his 
son,  gave  him  kisses,  and  said  to  him  :  "  Son,"  said  he,  "  it  is  not 
fury  or  wrath  that  makes  me  promote  this  war.  But  prophets 
and  wizards  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  have  decided  that 
this  cruel  war  of  Thebes  would  be  waged.  And  be  not  thou 
afraid,  O  Bacchus,  to  sack  Thebes  now,  and  surely  they  may 
deserve  evil  to  be  done  them,  for  their  wickedness  is  vast." 
Bacchus  was  exceeding  glad  at  those  tidings. 

As  to  them  thus  far. 

But  as  to  the  Thebans,  a  trusty  messenger  of  his  people 
reached  Eteocles,  king  of  Thebes,  and  related  to  him  that  the 
kingfolk  of  the  Greeks  with  their  hosts  and  allies  were  nigh  to 
the  greenswarded  plains  of  Thebes.  It  was  sad,  however,  and 
disconcerting  to  the  Thebans,  in  every  place  they  were,  to  hear 
those  great  tidings.  Now  unto  Eteocles  were  assembled  his  hosts 
and  allies,  his  battle-champions  and  his  valorous  heroes  there  on 
the  greenswarded  lawns  of  his  castle  and  city. 

The  mustering  and  gathering  of  the  Thebans  here. 

And  every  company  of  a  goodly  host  sat  down  there  round  its 
chief  and  lord  of  those  that  came  from  Aonia,  Euboea,  Phocis, 
and  from  all  the  cities  of  the  Thebans.  Moreover,  women,  youths, 
and  little  folks  arose  and  filled  the  walls  of  the  city  and  other 
heights  for  assembling,  as  they  viewed  that  host. 

There  also  was  the  virgin  of  many  charms,  to  wit,  Antigone, 
the  sister  of  Eteocles  and  Polynices,  on  a  very  high  huge  tower 
at  a  distance  away  from  the  wall  of  that  city.  For  this  was  a 
custom  they  observed  that  hosts  and  multitudes  should  not  see 
their  maidens,  till  they  were  married.  And  visible  to  her  there 
was  the  march  of  the  hosts  away  over  the  plain,  but  she  was  not 
visible  to  them.  And  he  that  was  in  attendance  on  her  then  was 
aged  very  learned  Phorbas,  to  wit,  a  favourite  of  her  father  and 
of  her  grandfather,  and  her  foster-father.  And  she  began  asking 
of  him :  "  Who  are  they  at  all,  this  very  great  army  ? "  said 
she.  "And  I  behold,"  said  she,  "  the  fine  pure  banners  of  bright 
purple  Menoeceus  and  the  cruel  arms  of  victorious  Creon."  But 
169 


E.  33a  36  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  215b  30 

2655  disi   -j   is  ed  roraid :    "In  faicend   tu  and,"  ar  se,  "Drias1   a  v„ 
tulchaib  taebuara2  Tanacra  atuaid  on  uarda  -]  mili  seegdech3  'na  255 
farrad  ?    Et  in  faicend  tu  ua  do4  Nephtum  and  -|  delb  seil5  ara 
armaib  ?   Atat6  aná  sud  i  sochraidi  Ethioclm  curaid  na  cathrach 
Ochalia,  -\  milid7  mera  Medona,  -j  gaiscedaig8  nuaglana  Nisa,  260 

2660 -j  trenfhir  thalchai'a  Thispé  agruin9.    Et  is  e  is  nesu10  doibsi?? 
Eurimedon  croda  coscorach  mac  Fanmu's,  dea11  na  caillted,  -j  is 
e   fhoires12  -j  airchises13   each   gabad  coilled,  -j    sluaig    saidbri 
sonaidi  Erithra  mara???  ris,  -j  na  sluaig  tangadar  a  Colon  ciuitas  265 
-]  a  hEtankm  agrui??14,  -j  a  hEleis  ciuitas,  -j  a  Sciroi??  (col.  /3) 

2665  agrui??,  -j  gas  gera  gui??echa  -j  sceith  cruiwdi  cabracha  leo  si??. 
Et  ata15  and  dono  airechta  Anchesta  agruin16  do  sil  Nephtui?? 
dei  in  mara  -j  is  e  Neptuin  garbas  ~\  fethnaiges  i[n]  muir 
n-aduar  n-ainfenach17.  Et  atait  and  na  fir  bit  [a  Eg.]  Megalis  i 
cocrich  na  Greci  -j  na  Tiauanda  -j  ba  sruth  Melais  -j  ba  thobar  274 

2Ó7oriGargais18   .i.   tobar  niirbulta,    -j   ba  sruth   Alietis19.    Ta??mi?? 
cAn/aidi  chendtroma   ba  hair/??   daib  si»,  -j  c?'«icind  langarba 
leoiwan  ba  cathbair[r]  'ma  cendaib20,  -\  cliatha  cruaidi  cranda  ba  276 
sceith  daib.    Et  atat  aireac/tfa  slebe  Elicona21  o  sruth  o  Par- 
messws22  .i.  sruth  ata  ac  sliab  Ailip  i  tuaiscert23  na  Tiauawda  ■]  o 

2675  sruth  Armews.  Et  ua  cruitireda  ceolbi?zdi24  na  curaid  sin  uili  0 
na  Moyisib  .i.  dei  in  biwdisa25." 

Et  o  raraid  Porfas  na  briathra  si??,  -]  tuc  na  tuarascbala  si??  290 
arna  sluagaib,  rolobair  Antigone,  -j  is  ed  roraid  :  "  Is  mor  am," 
ar  si,  "cosmailiws  na  desi  si??  derbrathar26  ut  adciam  uai?id27 

2680  iter  na  sluagaib ;  uair  is  at  caswa  comarda28  iter  arm  -j  etach. 
Et  ropad  maith  lim,"  ar  si,  "da  mad29  it  e  adam  derbrathair30  293 
fein  dobeth  in   cumand  ut."    "  A  ingen  am,"    ar   Porfas,    "  ni 
tvsu  cetduine  roraid  si??  riu,  uair  i[s]    sochaide  adubart   riu  296 

1  Eg.  Disias  2  Eg.  taebfhuara  3  Eg.  7  miledha,  soig  deeha 

4  Eg.  and  dono       s  Eg.  ail       G  Eg.  Atait       7  Eg.  Ocailia  7  mile(>.//a    E.  milig 
8  Eg.  gaiscid  9  Eg.  Tespe  griu«  10  Eg.  Is  nesa  u  Eg.  Fannug  dei 

12  Eg.  foirius         13  Eg.  oirisises         14  Eg.  hEtamon  agruin  l5  Eg.  7  atait 

16  Eg.  ancesta  agruin  17  Eg.  garb/jas  7  feithidbius  in  muir  n-adbfbuair 

n-Sbinbienaig  18  Eg.  7  fo  sruth. ..7  fá  thobair  nGoirccius  19  Eg.  Aleitis 

20  Eg.  ua  cathbar/v/  fo  cennaibh  21  Eg.  Elcona  22  Eg.  o  Pi/rmessus 

23  Eg.  a  tuaiscert  24  Eg.  ceoilbinn  25  Eg.  Moyisibh  dee  in  binniusa 

26  Eg.  deisi  derbrathar  27  Eg.  uaim  28  Eg.  comardaib 

29  Eg.  robad  maith  learn  ar  si  7  robad  maith  damh  da  mod         30  Eg.  it  e  adam 
braithir 

I/O 


THE  THEBAID 

Phorbas  answered  her,  and  said  :  "  Dost  thou  see  there,"  said  he, 
"Dryas  from  the  cold-sided  hills  of  Tanagrae,  from  the  frigid 
north  zone,  with  1000  archers  in  his  train  ?  And  dost  thou  see 
a  grandson  of  Neptune  there  with  the  figure  of  a  trident  on  his 
arms  ?  Yonder  among  the  allies  of  Eteocles  are  heroes  of  the 
city  of  Ocalea,  reckless  soldiers  of  Medeon,  fresh  bright  warriors 
of  Nisa,  and  resolute  champions  of  the  citadel  of  Thisbe.  And 
next  to  them  is  cruel  victorious  Eurymedon,  son  of  Faunus,  god 
of  the  woods — and  it  is  he  that  succours  and  saves  from  every 
peril  of  woods — and  the  rich  and  prosperous  hosts  of  Erythrae 
along  with  him,  and  the  'hosts  that  came  from  the  city  of  Scolos, 
and  from  the  citadel  of  Eteonos,  and  from  the  city  of  Hyle,  and 
from  the  citadel  of  Schoenos.  Sharp  piercing  javelins,  and  round 
bossy  shields  are  theirs.  And  there  also  are  the  hordes  of  the 
citadel  of  Onchestos  of  the  seed  of  Neptune,  god  of  the  sea,  and 
it  is  he  that  roughens  and  calms  the  chill  stormy  sea.  And  there 
are  the  men  that  are  from  Mycalessos  on  the  confines  of  Greece 
and  the  Thebans,  and  along  the  river  Melas  and  the  fountain  of 
Gargaphie,  to  wit,  a  wonderful  fountain,  and  along  the  river  of 
Haliartos  [oppidum].  Hard  and  heavy-topped  trunks  of  trees  were 
arms  for  those,  and  full  rough  lions'  skins  were  helmets  on  their 
heads,  and  hard  branching  hurdles  were  shields  for  them.  And 
there  are  hordes  of  mount  Helicon  from  the  river  Permessus,towit, 
a  river  which  flows  in  an  alpine  mountain  in  the  North  of  the 
Thebans,  and  from  the  river  Olmius.  And  all  those  heroes  were 
melodious  harpers  from  the  Muses,  to  wit,  the  goddesses  of 
melody." 

And  when  Phorbas  had  said  those  words,  and  applied  those 
descriptions  to  the  hosts,  Antigone  spoke,  and  said :  "  Great 
indeed,"  said  she,  "  is  the  resemblance  between  those  twain 
brothers  yonder,  whom  I  see  away  among  the  hosts;  for  they  are 
fair  and  equally  matched  as  regards  both  arms  and  dress.  And 
I  should  like,"  said  she,  "if  my  own  two  brothers  were  yon  fellow- 
ship." "Indeed,  maiden,"  said  Phorbas,  "thou  art  not  the  first 
person  that  has  called  them  so,  for  multitudes  have  called  them 
i/i 


E.  33h  24  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  215c  32 

connod  brathair  iad  cen  go  bed1.    Uair  is  e  a  athair  in  dara  fir  ^  " 
2685  dib  araili,  -]  as  amlaid  doronad2  sin  :  Nipe  bean  do  Laiftecdaib  296 
rochoinruic  re  maccaem  n-og  .i.  Lapitns  a  aiwm8,  -j  nir-comraic 
re  mnai  riam   roimi,  -j   do  na  t&inic  d'  ses  a  denam4.    Et  ba 
hingn&m6  comperta  di,  -\  darala  Alatriws  di  don  toirrches  [s]in,  -j  300 

0  ratuismed  in  mac  si»   ba6  gairit  coma  comor  comdelba  re 
2690 athair  he7.    Et  as  iad  in  dias  ud  romothaigis-[s]iu8,  in  mac  sin, 

1  int  athair  .i.  Lafitws  -j  Altri?<s9  a  mac  -\  tri  chet  marcach10 
sochraidi  each   fhir  dib  isin  tinol-sa  a  Clissa??ta  -\  a  Coriona. 
Ata  dono  ana7  Ipseii/s11  mac  Assopas12  ri   thuathtuaiscert   na3io 
Tiabanda,   -]    carpat  caem    ceith[ir]riada  fae13,  -j    sciath    suairc 

2695  sarcengailti  do  sechedaib  glasta  gloleathair  ara  muin,  ~\  luireach 
trebraid  trefhillti  'ma  corp,  -]  gae14  remur  rofhata  do  na  tabair 
urchu?"    d'imroll15    ina    laim.     Et    ata    sochraidi    mor   maraan 
ris  sin    do   neoch16   thanic   a    hlton  -j    a  hAcamena   a   Midse  330 
fesand17  mor  -j  a  hAulis18  a  Grea  *]  a  Plathea19  -j  a  hAndtego?; 

2700 -j  mill  lanmora  luaidi  rodibraicdis  a  tulaib  trenamais20  na  fir  sin 
-]  ni?/i  tualaing-sea  tra,"  ar  se,  "aireom  ina  tanic  sund  do  slogaib 
athloma    examla21    a    hilchathrachaib   na   Tiauanda   aróen   re  354 
hlpitns  n-arnaid  n-aduathmar22  mac  Naupulus  .i.  urri  na  cath- 
rach    medonda  na  Tiauanda.   (p.  34)    Et  imscith   mo  roisc,   -j 

2705  rocomleath23  ceo  crini  thairsib  ac  tnream  na  slog,  -j  nim  tualaing 
a  n-mdsin  ni  as24  mo,  a  ingen,"  ar  se. 

Asa  haithli  sin  roerig  Ethiocles,  rig  na  Tebi,  ar  xnur  a25 
chathrach  d'  acallaim  a  sluaig  -j  a  sochraidi,  -]  is  ed26  roraid  riu  : 
"A  rigu  maithi  mormenmnacha,"  ar  se,  "  ni  misi27  tendas  na 

2710  tindesnaiges  sib  dochum  in  chathaigthi-sea,  acht  bar  mbaid  -j 
[bjar28  mbeodacht  fen,  -j  bidam  cubaid-sea  dono  lib  a[c]  cosnnm 
uar  cathrach  -j  uar  tiri."    Et  is  amlaid  robui  'ga  rad29  sin,  -j  tuc 

1  Eg.  braithre  iad  cein  co  betb  2  Eg.  is  e  athair  in  dara  iir  aroik  7  is 

amlaidh  doraidh  3  Eg.  h&ipachitachaib  rocomraic  re  macam  n-oe  Lapitus 

ainm  in  mic  4  Eg.  7  ni  tainic  a  áis  dó  a  denum  6  Eg.  7  ua  hingn- 

*  E.  7  ba  7  Eg.  an  mac  nir  cian  cur-uo  co  mor  coimdealbha  re  athair  e 

8  Eg.  romothaig-sium  9  Eg.  Lapitus  7  Alatrius  10  Eg.  tri  c.  curadh 

11  Eg.  Ipeséus  12  Eg.  Aisopaiss  13  Eg.  caom  ceithirriata  fai  14  Eg  ua  corp 
7  gai  16  E.  imroill  Eg.  n-imruill  ie  Eg.  foraen  ris  do  neoch  17  Eg.  feisann 
18  Eg.  a  hAilis  19  Eg.  Plsetse  20  Eg.  rodibracudh  a  tulchaib  trenamuis 

21  Eg.  athluma  hecsamla  22  Eg.  nadfhuair  23  Eg.  rocoimleth 

24  Eg.  ni's  25  Eg.  mur  na  2G  Eg.  is  ed  so  27  Eg.  ni  mesi 

28  E.  mbaig   Eg.  uar  mbaidh  7  uar  m-  29  Eg.  rouai  'ga  rada 

172 


THE  THEBAID 

brothers  though  it  were  not  so.  For  one  of  them  is  the  other's 
father,  and  that  happened  thus :  A  nymph,  a  woman  of  the 
Lapithae,  embraced  a  young  boy  named  Lapithaon,  and  he  had 
never  embraced  a  woman  before,  seeing  he  had  not  come  of  age 
so  to  do.  And  it  was  an  act  sufficient  for  her  conception,  and 
Alatreus  befell  her  from  that  pregnancy,  and  when  that  boy  was 
begotten,  it  was  but  a  short  time  till  he  was  as  tall  and  as  comely 
as  his  father.  And  they  are  yon  twain  thou  hast  observed,  that 
son  and  the  father,  to  wit,  Lapithaon  and  Alatreus  his  son,  and 
300  horsemen  are  the  allies  of  each  man  of  them  in  this  muster 
from  Glisas  and  Coronia.  There  als®  is  Hypseus,  son  of  Asopos, 
king  of  the  northern  tribes  of  the  Thebans,  with  a  beautiful  four- 
horsed  chariot,  a  pleasant  nobly  bound  shield  of  glued  hides  of 
bright  leather  on  his  back,  a  triple  ringed  threefold  corslet  about 
his  body,  and  in  his  hand  a  thick  very  long  javelin  by  which  he 
does  not  deliver  a  missing  shot.  And  there  is  a  great  army  along 
with  him  of  those  that  came  from  Itone  and  Alalcomenis,  from 
Midea  of  great  pheasants  (?)  and  from  Aulis,  from  Graea,  and 
from  Plataeae,  and  from  Anthedon,  with  very  great  lumps  of  lead 
which  these  men  used  to  hurl  at  stalwart  soldiers'  foreheads. 
And  indeed  I  am  unable  to  number,"  said  he,  "  all  that  have 
come  here  of  active  diverse  hosts  from  the  many  cities  of  the 
Thebans  along  with  cruel  horrible  Iphitus  son  of  Naubolus,  to 
wit,  the  viceroy  of  the  middle  cities  of  the  Thebans.  And  tired 
are  mine  eyes,  and  a  mist  of  withered  eld  has  overspread  them 
in  taking  account  of  the  hosts,  and  I  am  unable  to  tell  them 
further,  O  maiden,"  said  he. 

After  that  Eteocles,  king  of  Thebes,  rose  up  upon  the  walls  of 
his  city  in  order  to  address  his  host  and  his  allies,  and  this  is 
what  he  said  to  them  :  "  O  good  and  great-minded  kings,"  said 
he,  "  it  is  not  I  that  press  or  hurry  you  unto  this  war,  but  your 
own  liking  and  liveliness.  And  yet  I  shall  be  at  one  with  you 
in  defending  your  city  and  your  land."  And  thus  he  was,  while 
he  was  so  saying,  that  he  threw  many  reproaches  at  his  brother, 
173 


E.  34a  io  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  213d  32 

achmosana  i?nda  da  brathair1  .i.  do  Folinices,  mar  nabeth  ina  VIej ' 
fiadnaiai,  *j   roordaich   lucht  a  cometa2  ac  din  7   ac  diten  na 

27i5cathrach  7  a[c]  gabail  in  muir.    Roordaich  curadu3  croda  re 
cathugud  inn  agaid  gaiscedach  Grec  amuich  [a]n-echtair. 
Dala  na  Tiauannda  conigi4  sin. 

Dala  immorro  na  nGrec5  rochomergedar  reompo  can  suan  398 
can  sadaili  i  Ho6  n[a]  a  n-aidchi.    Et  ger-ua  imda  derbairdeda 

272odoirrthi  7  figrad7  iiruilc  daib,  ni  rothoirmisc8  iad,  7  fa  moidi 
fich   fergi  na  firloech  gach  celmame  condtrachta9  dachuiread 
daib,  no  go  rangadar10  co  srath  siralamd  sribuame  Assopws  i  tir  424 
na  Tiauannda.    Roansad-swm  gan  dul  tairis  [s]i«  fo  chetoir,  nair 
ba  hadbul  a  thuili  7  a  thondgar  int  Bhrotha  inn  uair  sin  ar  cur 

2725  breachta  druad  do  Baich  fair  .i.  do  dea  inn  [fhjina11.    Is  andsin 
tanic  Ipamedon12  feochair  fergach,  7  rogres13  a  eochu  isin  n-ath  430 
resna  sluagaib,  7  roraid  riu  :  "  Is  metacht  7  is  midlochtts"  daib, 
a  f'hiru,"  ar  se,  "gan  dul  dar  in  sruth,  7  ni  bud   maith15  do 
thogail  na  Tebi  trenarmaigi16  a  triall  amlaid  sin."    Roergedar- 

2730  sum  co  dian  denranedach  lasin  ng?-esacht  siw,  7  dachuadar  dar  435 
in  sruth,  no  co  rangadar  co  tulaich  tasbalaiiid  taitnemaich,  7 
rochidis-[s]ium    uaithib    asin   tulaig  sin   tigi  arda  airegda17   -| 
faicheda  fondglasa18  firailli  na  Tebi  togaidi.     Rogabad  leosum 
andsin  longp/tort  lethan  lanadbal,  7  robadar  and  re  head  na  443 

2735  haidchi  sin. 

Ua19  doilig  tra  a  fhis  7  a  haisnes20  crith  7  comegla21,  sestan  452 
1  sirsibul22  na  Tiauan?zda  isi?in  aidchi23  si?;,  o  'tchondcadar  pupuill 
aladbreca  [fhjairsirgi24, 7  airm  saiti  sesmacha  gaiscedach25  nG?'ec 
re  doirrsib  a  mbrecpujoall  ar  ngabail  a  longpAinVt26  doib.    Robui 

2740  tra  do  met  a  n-ecla  na  ba27  tairisi  leo  din  na  dai»gen  da  roibi 
accu  isinn  aidchi  sin.  Cid  tra  acht  roscailid  badba  buaidirthi 
belderga28, -]  demna  aduathmara  ifir/i  ua  cheachtar29  in  da  sluag 

1  Eg.  braithir  2  Eg.  mar  dobetb  'na...coimeta  3  Eg.  curaidb 

4  Eg.  gaiscedacb  nGrec.eonuigi  5  Eg.  Dala  na  nGree  dono  6  Eg.  can 

tsuan  tsaidbaileacbt  alo  7  Eg.  ger-bo  himdha  derbeda  doircbi  7  fidradb 

8  Eg.  nir-toirmesc  9  Eg.  eonntracbta  10  Eg.  rancotar  u  Eg.  do  dbee  in  fina 
12  Eg.  Ipemedon  13  Eg.  rogreiss  14  Eg.  midbla?chus  15  Eg.  ni  ba  maitb 
16  Eg.  na  Teue  trencalma  17  Eg.  aredba  1S  Eg.  faitbcbe  datbfbonnglasa 
19  Eg.  Ba  20  Eg.  a  faisneis  21  Eg.  coimbecla  22  Eg.  sirsiubal 

23  Eg.  in  oidhcbe  24  Eg.  aladbrecca  fairsigna  25  Eg.  sbaiti  sbesmacba 

gbaiscedac/ia  26  Eg.  longp/nmt  27  Eg.  nar-uo  2S  Eg.  beldercca 

29  Eg.  fa  cecbtar 

174 


THE  THEBAID 

to  wit,  Polynices,  as  if  he  were  in  his  presence,  and  he  ordered 
his  guards  to  defend  and  protect  the  city  and  to  hold  the  wall. 
He  ordered  brave  champions  to  fight  against  Greek  heroes  away 
outside. 

As  to  the  Thebans  thus  far. 

As  to  the  Greeks,  however,  they  marched  forward  with  no 
sleep,  no  rest  by  day  or  night.  And  though  many  were  the  sinister 
signs  and  presage  of  veritable  evil  to  them,  it  did  not  check 
them ;  and  the  fury  of  the  wrath  of  the  true  heroes  was  the 
greater  at  every  omen  of  malediction  that  was  sent  to  them,  till 
they  reached  the  ever-beautiful  green-flowing  river  Asopos  in  the 
land  of  the  Thebans.  They  halted  without  crossing  it  at  once, 
for  vast  were  the  flood  and  the  wave-roar  of  the  river  at  that 
time,  through  Bacchus'  wizards  laying  a  spell  upon  it,  to  wit, 
Bacchus  the  god  of  wine.  Then  came  fierce  and  angry  Hippo- 
medon,  and  urged  his  horses  into  the  ford  in  face  of  the  hosts, 
and  he  said  to  them :  "  Timidity  and  cowardice  are  upon  you, 
O  men,"  said  he,  "  that  ye  do  not  cross  the  river,  and  an  attempt 
like  that  were  of  no  avail  to  sack  strongly  armed  Thebes."  With 
that  incitement  they  arose  keenly  and  hastily,  and  across  the 
river  they  went  till  they  came  to  a  fair-sided  pleasant  hill,  and 
they  beheld  at  a  distance  from  that  hill  the  high  stately  houses 
and  the  green-turfed  very  beautiful  lawns  of  choice  Thebes.  A 
wide  full-vast  camp  was  pitched  by  them  there,  and  they  re- 
mained in  it  during  the  course  of  that  night. 

Now  it  were  hard  to  know  and  to  relate  the  trembling  and  the 
panic,  the  alarm  and  the  long  hurrying  to  and  fro  of  the 
Thebans  that  night,  when  they  saw  the  dappled  wide  tents  and 
the  thrust-in,  firm-fixed  arms  of  the  Greek  heroes  at  the  doors 
of  their  speckled  tents,  after  they  had  pitched  their  camp.  Now 
so  great  was  their  fear  that  they  had  no  confidence  in  any  defence 
or  shelter  which  they  could  have  that  night.  Nay,  even  red- 
lipped  disturbing  furies  and  dreadful  demons  of  hell  were 
175 


E.  34a  48  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  216a  31 

isirai   aidchi  sin1  do  commorad  uilc  -j   anindi2  chaich3  dib  re  V1ej ' 
chele  (col.  /3). 

2745      O   raergedar  tra  renna  roglana   roailli  in  he4  araamarach,  474 
roerig5    Iochasta,    in    rigan    laimgel6    g?-»adsolns    .i.    mathair 
Ethioclm,  rig  na  Teibi7,  7  VoMniceis,  fhirthogla  na  cathrach, 
1  a  da  hin-gin  marsen  ria  .i.  Ismine  7  Ant[i]gone.    Ba  foraesta 
forbthi  am8  in  rigan  thanic  ancZsm9,  -j  o  rasiacht  ar  larmedon" 

2750  in  longp/««Vt,  tuc  a  faidi  fergacha  firguil  os  aird,  7  roraid :  "A 
rigraid"  Grec,"  ar  si,  "  cait  a  fuil12  mo  mac-sa  i  trasta  andso  i.  490 
VolinicesV   O  'tchualaich  immorro  in  gilla  a  beith-si  'ga  iarraid13 
amlaid  Bin,  tanic  da  hiwdsaigid,  7   robui  'ga  cendsugud14  do 
briathraib    suarca    sithamla.    Ro[fh]recair-si    dosum,   7    is   ed 

2755  roraid  ris :  "A  mic,"  ar  si,  "  is  ead  is  maith  lim  sith  suthain.  do 
bith    etorrud-su15    -j    do    brathair,    7    fiarchairi16    chairdisa    re 
Tiauandaib ;  7    tair  limsa  anund17  isin  Teib,  -j   dena  sith   ret  509 
brathair,  7  cuindig18  rigi  da  deoift  air,  -j  mi»a  thuca  dit  [i  Eg.], 
is  coraidi19  dit  cathugud  croda  'na  agaid."    Tanic  tra  cridi  na  527 

276onGrec20  co  mor  andsi»  ar  Iochasta,  amal  robui  ac  eterdeligud  a 
mic21  on  chathugud  Tiauanda. 

BotWall    tra   YoUnices   dul    le-si  isiii  baili,  -j    nir-thairmisc 
Adraist  imi  a  dul22,  cei/?  co   tanic  Tit   mac  Oernusa  -\  co  n-  537 
ebairt23 :    "  Na  dentar  in  sid,"  ar  se,  "  no  co  tarar-sa24  arna 

2765  Tiauandaib    crechta    mo    chnis  -j   mo   chuirp,"    -j    rothocaib    a 
chrechta  -|  a  ilgona25  dona  sluagaib  andsin.    Rothairmisc  t?-a  in 
seel  ún  fa  PoHnices  dul  ism  cathraig  •]   gan  sid  re  brathair, 
1  rolinsad  na  Grac26  uili  o  feargaib  glemorgarba  risna  Tiauan-  560 
daib,  o27  'dchona'cadar  crechta  -j  ilgona  Thid. 

2770      Is  i  sin  ass  -j  uair  tangadar  amach  na  tigri  robitis  ac  imarchwr28  564 
charbaid  Baich  mic  Ioib  d'ol  uisci  co  srothaib  firuara29  firglawa 
na  Tebi ;  7  in  am30  dochuadar,  dorala  doib  ara31  Ampiararam's  int 
1  Eg.  in  oidhche  sin  2  Eg.  aininde  3  E.  caith  4  Eg.  in  lai 

5  Eg.  roeiri<7  6  Eg.  geWamach  7  Eg.  ri  na  Teue  8  Eg.  forbhfhi  amh 
9  Eg.  inn  sin  10  Eg.  medhoi;;  u  E.  rigraig  12  Eg.  cait  ina  bfuil 

13  Eg.  aca  iarraidh  14  Eg  roui  a  cennsugud  15  Eg.  adrat-sa 

16  Eg.  fialcoire  17  Eg.  liumsa  a  anum  18  Eg.  sigh  re  do  braithir  7  cuincidh 
19  Eg.  coraite  20  Eg.  cridheadfta  na  nGreeach  21  Eg.  a  mic  22  Eg.  uime 
dul  andsin  23  Eg.  Ainiusa  7  co  ndebairt  24  Eg.  no  co  tarrusa 

M  Eg.  7  a  gona  26  Eg.  cen  sigh...rolinastar  na  Grecaig         2'  Eg.  gle  mora 

garba  risna  briathraib  sin  Tit  o  28  Eg.  ac  imurchur  29  Eg.  firfhuardha 

30  Eg.  intan  31  Eg.  doibh  am 

176 


THE  THEBAID 

scattered  throughout  each  of  the  two  hosts  that  night,  to  in- 
tensify the  evil  and  the  anger  of  each  of  them  against  the  other. 

Now  when  the  very  bright  and  beautiful  stars  arose  on  the 
morrow,  Jocasta  arose,  the  white-handed  bright-cheeked  queen, 
to  wit,  mother  of  Eteocles,  king  of  Thebes,  and  of  Polynices, 
destroyer  of  the  city,  and  her  two  daughters  along  with  her,  to 
wit,  Ismene  -and  Antigone.  Very  old  and  aged  indeed  was  the 
queen  that  came  there,  and  when  she  had  reached  the  very  midst 
of  the  camp,  she  lifted  up  her  angry  very  wailing  cries,  and  said : 
"  Ye  Greek  kingfolk,"  said  she,  "  where  is  my  son  now  and  here, 
to  wit,  Polynices  ?"  But  when  the  lad  heard  that  she  was  seeking 
him  thus,  he  came  to  her,  and  was  soothing  her  with  pleasant 
and  pacifying  words.  She  answered  him,  and  this  is  what  she 
said  to  him:  "Son,"  said  she,  "this  is  what  I  wish,  that  ever- 
lasting peace  should  exist  between  thee  and  thy  brother,  and 
the  kindly  terms  of  family  relationship  with  Thebans ;  and  do 
thou  come  with  me  over  to  Thebes,  and  make  peace  with  thy 
brother,  and  ask  of  him  kingship  with  his  consent ;  and  if  he  do 
not  give  it  thee,  the  more  just  for  thee  is  a  cruel  war  against 
him."  Now  the  heart  of  the  Greeks  was  greatly  moved  there 
toward  Jocasta,  as  she  was  alienating  her  son  from  tlie  Theban 
war. 

Now  Polynices  proceeded  to  go  with  her  into  the  town,  and 
Adrastus  did  not  prevent  his  going,  till  Tydeus  son  of  Oeneus, 
came  and  said:  "Let  no  peace  be  made,"  said  he,  "till  I  avenge 
upon  the  Thebans  the  wounds  of  my  skin  and  my  body."  And 
he  showed  his  wounds  and  his  many  sores  to  the  hosts  there. 
Now  that  tale  prevented  Polynices  going  into  the  city  and 
making  peace  with  his  brother ;  and  all  the  Greeks  were  filled 
with  very  greatly  exasperated  feelings  of  wrath  at  the  Thebans, 
when  they  saw  Tydeus'  wounds  and  his  many  sores. 

At  that  time  and  hour  came  forth  the  tigers,  that  used  to 
draw  the  chariot  of  Bacchus,  son  of  Jove,  in  order  to  drink 
water  at  the  very  cold  and  clear  streams  of  Thebes  ;  and  when 
they  ws**t,  there  met  them  the  charioteer  of  Amphiaraus,  the 


177 


12 


E.  34b  37  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  216b  29 

[sjacairt  moir  Grecaig,  -j  se  ac  \ecun  use*  da  echaib.   Rolingestar1  VII ' 
air  na  tigri  diana  dasac/^acha  fo  chetoir  .i.  cenela  anmidead 

2775  erchoideacha2    marbas   cethra   -j   daine  na   tigri,  -\   romarbsad 
fo  chetoir  int  ara3  -]  na  heochu,  -]  romarbsad  dono  dias  aili  do  585 
Grecaib  .i.  Idas  -]  Athamant  [a  n-anmanoa  Eg.].    Et  asa  haithli 
sin   adchondairc4    Acondtews    Arcadecda5  na   tigri  .i.  taiseach  590 
morthuaithi  do  lucht  na  hArcaidi,  -\  is  na  fherand  ata  in  cloch 

2780  bis6  ar  lassad7  trebithu  .i.  Sifist8  a  hainm,  a  haithli  na  n-echt 
sin  do  denani  daib9.  Et  rodibraic  (p.  35)  da  saigid  a  ndiaid 
aroili  da  n-i?;dsaigi  co  rotregdastair  a  craide'ada  -j  co  rucsad  na 
soigti  leo  ism  mbaile  -j  conid  thall  fuaridar10  bas11.  Ba  trom  -] 
ba  torrsech  re  Tiauandaib12  in  gnim  sin,  -\  roerig  amach  fer  do 

2785  muntir  Baich  da  ndigail  .i.  Flegii/s  a  ai?nn,  -j  rosiacht  cen  fhis, 
no  co  tuc  bem  claideb13  do  Accondte^s  co  torchair  marb14  cen 
anmain  Roergedar  immorro  na  hArcaidi15  da  digail  sin,  -j  ni 
riacht  leo,  uair  (ranic16)  Flegii/s  imslan  isin  cathraig17  ar  ndigail 
enig  Baich  amuich. 

2790      A  haithli  in  gnima  sin,  immorro,  roas  seastan18  -\  seselb  adbul-  608 
mor  i  llongp/iort  lanlethan  na  nG?^ec19,  -\  roraid  Tit,  mac  Oenius20, 
re  hlochasta,  -j  re  hingenaib  :  "  Denaid  imthecht21,"  ar  se,  "  -j  ni  612 
berthai  sid  na  osud22  [lib  Eg.]  don  c/mr-sa."    Roimthig23  Iochasta 
co  dubach  domenmach  ar  sin  ar  femed  sida  iter  a  macaib.   Roerig 

2795  immorro  Tid  [in  milid  Eg.]  c?-oda  coscoroch  calma2*  mac  Oenins, 
1  rogab  a  armu,  -j  rocomgres  a  munter  -\  slog  na  nGrec25  ar- 
chena.  Dorindead  tra  andsin  comergi  croda  curata  -j  sitharchar 
tindisnach26  cur-ua  enmaseda  co?/ibuaidirthi  iter  chairpthib  -j 
curadaib   in    longp/inirt27    isinn    uair   sin.     Et   robui    da  deni 

2800  roergedar  connar-leced28  tosach  na  toisigeac/ii  da  stocaib  croda 
cathaigthi  na  da  mergedaib  suarca  srollaigi29  acht  a  ndirmanda 

1  Eg.  rolinastar        2  Eg.  n-ercboitech        3  Eg.  ant  aro        4  Eg.  atconnaivc 
5  Eg.  Aircaitecdha  6  Eg.  in  cloch  uiss  7  Eg.  lasad  8  E.  Fifist 

Eg.  Tisfist  9  Eg.  doib    E.  daib  7  «  E.  fuaridar  «  Eg.  isin  baile 

conadh  tball  fuaratar  bass  12  Eg.  Ua  tromm  toirsecb  la  T.  13  E.  claideb 
Eg.  beim  claidern  i4  Eg.  torchair  marbb  15  Eg.  bArccaite 

16  Eg.  roimigb  17  E.  cbatbraig  18  Eg.  rofás  seston  19  Eg.  a  longpbortailh 
lanlethna  na  nGrecacb  20  Eg.  Ainiusa  21  Eg.  imteacbta  22  Eg.  ossadb 
23  Eg.  lloÍHíí/fidb  24  Eg.  coscurdacb  Calidonda  25  Eg.  na  Greei 

26  Eg.  croda  carut  eti  talcbar  tendusnacb  27  Eg.  in  loncphuirt 

28  Eg.  conar-leciudh  20  Eg.  mergedbaibb  suaicbinta  sroil%fti 

178 


THE  THEBAID 

great  Greek  priest,  whilst  he  was  giving  his  horses  water.  Upon 
him  at  once  leaped  the  keen  mad  tigers,  to  wit,  the  tigers  are 
species  of  hurtful  animals  that  kill  cattle  and  men.  And  they 
killed  at  once  the  charioteer  and  the  horses,  and  also  two  other 
Greeks,  to  wit,  Idas  and  Acamas  were  their  names.  And  there- 
after the  tigers  were  seen  by  Aconteus,  an  Arcadian,  to  wit,  the 
chief  of  a  great  tribe  of  them  of  Arcadia,  and  in  his  land  is  the 
«tone  which  is  ever  aflame,  to  wit,  Sisyphus  (?)  is  its  name — after 
those  deeds  were  done  by  them.  And  he  shot  two  arrows  one 
after  another  at  them,  and  pierced  their  hearts,  and  they  carried 
the  arrows  with  them  into  the  town,  and  it  was  there  they  died. 
Heavy  and  sad  was  that  deed  in  the  eyes  of  the  Thebans,  and 
to  avenge  them  came  forth  a  man  of  the  people  of  Bacchus,  to 
wit,  Phegeus  was  his  name,  and  all  unknown  he  arrived,  and 
dealt  a  blow  of  his  sword  at  Aconteus  so  that  he  fell  dead,  life- 
less. The  Arcadians,  however,  arose  to  avenge  that,  and  they  did 
not  succeed,  for  Phegeus  arrived  safe  and  sound  in  the  city  after 
avenging  Bacchus'  honour  outside. 

After  that  deed,  however,  a  huge  and  great  alarm  and  tumult 
arose  in  the  full-wide  camp  of  the  Greeks ;  and  Tydeus,  son  of 
Oeneus,  said  to  Jocasta  and  her  daughters  :  "  Depart,"  said  he, 
"  seeing  ye  will  not  bring  peace  or  truce  at  this  time."  Jocasta 
departed  gloomily  and  dejectedly  after  that,  having  been  unable 
to  make  peace  between  her  sons.  But  the  bold  triumphant  brave 
soldier,  Tydeus,  son  of  Oeneus,  arose  and  seized  his  arms,  and 
roused  his  people  and  all  the  host  of  the  Greeks.  In  sooth  there 
was  made  a  bold  heroic  rising  and  a  hasty  ruin  of  peace  so  that 
it  was  confused  and  troubled  among  the  chariots  and  champions 
of  the  camp  at  that  time.  And  such  was  the  keenness  with  which 
they  arose  that  no  lead  or  precedence  was  allowed  to  brave  war- 
trumpets,  or  to  pleasant  silken  banners,  but  their  keen  bands  of 
179  12—2 


E.  35a  25  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  217*  25 

diana  dsescur[sh]luaig  -j  a  úgeraiti  gaiscic?  ac  imchosnam  gliad  vfj  * 
1  ag  iarraid  irgaili  dochuin  na  Tiauanda. 

Roergedar  immorro   da   frestal1  7    da  frithaileam   trenfhir2 

5805  benda  tairgsenacha3  talchara  na  Tebi,  7  rogob  gach  tri&th.  7  gach 
tige?*na4  dib  ac  gresacht  7  ar  nertad5  a  mormunfriri.    Is  andsi?) 
tra  rotreniiidsaich6  each  aroile   dib   co   ma7    samalta  gredon8 
1    glorbresmaidm    na    mbuiden    rabodba  mbuaidirthi   si/f    a[c]  625 
comrith  ri  aroili  amaZ  bad9  i  ind  [fh]idbad  bresbrsenach  billeach10 

»8iobarrglas  rothuited11  i  ladraib  glac  7  i  llamaib  aroili  re  gaidsnim12 
na  gaithi  garbfuairi  gemreta,  no  mar  bad  he  in  la  bratha 
brigurduirc  brec[dh]ui leach13  tisad  do  sraurchaicilt14  in  betha, 

I  robris  each  airech  7  gach  airdri  bernd15  rena  buidin  i  cath 
aroili  an  uair  sin.    Et  mar  dabadar  isin  comfheidm16  catha  ún 

»815  na  sluaig  ceach tarda,  is  and17  rofuataig  a  each  rot  romer  trenfer  • 
do  Tiauandaib  le  i  cath  na  nGrec18  .i.  Terelas.    Et  rofrithail19  632 
Tid  mac  Oeni  its20  he,  -j  tuc  fuirmed  fedma21  co  setrech  sirchalma 
do  gse  robui    na  laim  air,  cor-ua  bir  bodba  trena  chorp  don  634 
churaid,  7  roue  (a  ech)  aris  ar  cula  e22,  cor-ap  and  rothoit  gan 

:82oanmam  iter  na  Tiauannda.  Rotreni?;dsaig  tra  na  catha  croda 
araili  ar  ioiúm  an  [fh]ir  sin  co  fergach  firamnas  (col.  Q),  7 
rodluthaiged  in  chathirgal  comrmwach  cor-ba  dluithit/ie?'  re 
cleith  lenad23  arna  landluthud24  in  lini25  sleg  semnech  sithfhata 
rosuidiged26  a  sleasaib  suarca  ssercland  sochenelach  andsin27  iúii 

5825  tres  t?-enadbul  si?i  roc/<i«'rsetar.  Cid  tra  acht  rodithaigit  dronga  de 
sin,  -j  roma?ltamnaigit  meidi28,  7  robanaid  gnuisi,  7  roruamnaigit 
roisc,  7  roclaBit29  cetfada  curad  a[c]  comthoitim30.    Et  ar  ún  dorala 
in   cath  ina  co?/iracaib.    Rocomraic  and  Ipamedo?;31  ard  allata64i 
do  G?-ecaib  7  Siuaris32  siruallach  do  Thiauandcn'6 ;  -j  i  forciwdiud 

1830  in   cov/iraic  siw,  darochair  Siuaris32  and  do    laim    in   Grecaig. 

1  Eg.  fresdul  2  E.  trenfher  3  Eg.  taircesin«c/i  4  Eg.  each  tiagerna 
5  Eg.  ac  nertugud  6  Eg.  rotreninnsaigh  '  Eg.  comad  8  Eg.  grsedon 
9  Eg.  bid  10  Eg.  becbraenach  bilech  X1  Eg.  rotuitfedh  12  Eg.  re  'ioik> 
re  gadhsnim  13  E.  brigurdruirc   Eg.  brighuidairc  breedhuillech 

II  Eg.  smurchagailt  15  Eg.  baranx  16  Eg.  coimfeidm  1!  Eg.  is  andsin 
18  Eg.  nGrecach  19  Eg.  Tereleus  a  ainm  7  rofrithoil  20  Eg.  Oeniusa 
21  Eg.  fedmha  22  Eg.  a  ech  ar  cul  e  23  Eg.  leined  24  E.  dluthug 
25  Eg.  an  line  26  Eg.  rosuiged  E.  rosuigideg  -"'  Eg.  anrf  isin 
28  Eg.  rotamnaighit  mededha  29  Eg.  roclaidhit  30  Eg.  curadh  don 
comeirge  7  don  comtoitim            31  Eg.  Ipemedon            32  Eg.  Siuairis 

180 


THE  THEBAID 

common  soldiers  and  their  champions  of  valour  were  in  mutual 
emulation  for  fight,  and  were  seeking  battle  of  the  Thebans. 

On  the  other  hand  the  keen  daring  resolute  champions  of 
Thebes  arose  to  attend  and  wait  upon  them,  and  every  prince 
and  every  lord  of  them  took  to  urging  and  strengthening  his 
great  following.  Indeed  it  was  then  that  each  of  them  strongly 
attacked  the  other,  so  that  the  clamour  and  the  noisy  crash  of 
those  furious  turbulent  troops  rushing  at  one  another  were  like  as 
it  were  the  great-dripping  large-stemmed  green- topped  wood  that 
had  fallen  into  one  another's  cleft-forks  and  arms  before  the  withe- 
twisting  of  the  fiercely  cold  winter  wind,  or  as  it  were  the  intent- 
revealing  lie-desiring  day  of  judgment  that  should  come  to  rake 
up  the  ash  hearth  of  the  world;  and  every  prince  and  every 
high-king  broke  a  gap  before  his  troop  in  another's  battalion  at 
that  time.  And  as  each  of  the  two  hosts  were  engaged  in  that 
joint  effort  of  battle,  then  his  strong  very  mad  mare  took  a 
champion  of  the  Thebans,  to  wit,  Pterelas,  away  with  her  into 
a  battalion  of  the  Greeks.  And  Tydeus,  son  of  Oeneus,  awaited 
him,  and  dealt  him  strongly  very  boldly  a  strenuous  thrust  with 
a  spear  that  was  in  his  hand  so  that  its  warlike  point  was 
through  the  hero's  body,  and  his  horse  brought  him  back  again 
so  that  he  fell  there  lifeless  among  the  Thebans.  Now  after  that 
man's  fall  the  brave  battalions  assaulted  one  another  angrily 
very  fiercely,  and  the  contentious  battle-combat  closed  till  as 
close  as  a  stop-hurdle  after  being  quite  closed  was  the  line  of 
riveted  long-extending  spears  that  were  planted  in  the  pleasant 
sides  of  noble  well-born  scions  there  in  that  strong  and  vast 
battle  which  they  waged.  Nay,  multitudes  were  thereby  destroyed, 
trunks  were  mutilated,  faces  were  blanched,  eyes  were  reddened, 
and  heroes'  senses  were  overcome  as  they  fell  together.  And 
after  that  the  battle  fell  into  duels  between  them.  There  fought 
Hippomedon  a  lofty  and  famous  Greek,  and  Sybaris  a  very 
proud  Theban ;  and  at  the  completion  of  that  duel,  Sybaris  fell 
there  by  the  hand  of  the  Greek.  After  that  two  champions  of 
181 


E.  35b  13  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  2i7b  28 

Rocomraicsedar1   asa  haithli  sin  da  trenfer  do  Tiauandaib  .i.  VI6j ' 
Pilii/s  1  Perefaws  re  heng&iscedaig  do  G?-ecaib  .i.  Menceiws2  -7 
dothoitsed  na  Tiauanda8  don  tachur  sin,  7   rue  Me?iceu<s2  a 
coscor  *j  a  cowaidem.    Acus  dorigne4  Partapei<s6  ri  na  hArcaide 

2835  ar  si»  echta  ar  na  Tiauanda,  7  rothoit5  in  tWur-sa  dib  les  .i.  643 
Ithis  1  Sibaris  7  PerefaHS6.    Dothoit   Cunesúís  gaisgedach  do 
Grecaib  re  hEmon  echtach  mac  Creoin  do  Ti&uandaib ;  1  ac 
toitim  do,  rogab  Abas  do  Tmhandaib  airm  i??n  fhir  [sin  Eg.], 
1  rofocair  com  rue  da  eis;  7  tarlaic  fer  do  Grecaib  saigit7  do,  co 

.2840  rus-facaib  gan  anmain. 

Roerig  ar  sin  sacart  do  muntw*  Baich  .i.  Euneii/*,  -j  a  edach  649 
delradach  dathalai?id8  imi  asa  ndenad  idbarta  do  Baich ;  -j  tuc 
tainsem9  7  tarcaisi10  mor  arna  Grecaib  uili,  -|  is  ed  roraid  :  "  Na 
cuirid11  risna  Tiabandaib,  a  Grecu,"  ar  se,  "  uair  is  croda  a  cwraid 

2845  7  is  cumachta12  a  ndei  7  is  daingi??  muira.  morcathrach13."    Et  o 
'dchualaig,  immorro,  in  ri  londmer14  gaisceadmer15  do  Grecaib  675 
.i.  Capanews,  ro[fh]rithaillc  he,  7  ta??ic  ar  ci??d  conairi  do  inna 
stuaig  agmair  aduathmair,  7  roboccbertaich  in  sleig17  rindger 
rofada  co  crund  ca3m  comdiriuch  do  fid18  chuanda  cuibrisc19 

2850  indti,  1  roraid  :  "  Is  bseth  banda,"  ar  se,  "  na  briathra  bocasaich 
raidi  risna  slogaib.    Et  dursan  nach  e  in  dei  da  n-adraid  ita  id  677 
richt  adrasta20 :  uair  da  mad  he,  rofaethsad  limsa."    Et  [is  Eg.] 
cuwa  roraid-seo?H  sin  7   tuc   urchar  n-i?idill21  diruch  dochiim 
Euneiwis22,  co  roscailt  a  sciath,  7  co  robris  a  druim,  co  riacht  a 

2855  marb23  óochum  talman  ua  chetoir. 

Is  andsin  rofhopair  Ethiocles  ri  na  Tiabanaa  ara  7  ilechta  688 
aidbli24  ar  gasradaib  Grec  co  ma  drofga  dianmarba25  les  iad  each 
conair  ina  teged.    VoMnices  immorro  tuc  sec  accarda26  7  anucul 
dona  Tiabandaib  arin  fialchairi  mbunaid  7  ar  grad  na  hatharrda 

286odilisi27  duthaig, 

1  Eg.  rocomraicsitar  2  Eg.  Meneceus  3  Eg.  rothuitsit  Tiauanda 

4  Eg.  cloroine  arsin  5  Eg.  rothuitsitar  6  Eg.  Partanape«s...Siuains  7  Perefas 
7  Eg.  soigheit  8  Eg.  E.  co  n-etach  ndathalaind  delradach  9  Eg.  tairisem 
10  Eg.  taircnsne  u  E.  cuirig  12  Eg.  cumachtach  13  Eg.  a  cathrach 
14  Eg.  vero  in  lsech  londmer  15  Eg.  gaiscedach  mer  :6  Eg.  rofrithoil 

17  Eg.  adhfhuathmar.    Eogabh  in  sleg        18  Eg.  don  fhidh  19  Eg.  caprisc 

20  Eg.  ata  at  richtsa  atrasta      21  Eg.  ineill      aa  Eg.  Euneis       23  Eg.  co  riacht 

e.  coma  droncca  dianmarbhtha 


marbh 

24 

Eg. 

aidhlble 

26  Eg. 

side 

a  carra 

27  Eg. 

disle 
l82 

THE  THEBAID 

the  Thebans,  to  wit,  Pylius  and  Parthenopaeus,  fought  against  a 
single  champion  of  the  Greeks,  to  wit,  Menoeceus;  and  the 
Thebans  fell  of  that  encounter,  and  Menoeceus  won  his  victory 
and  his  boast.  And  after  that  Parthenopaeus,  king  of  Arcadia, 
inflicted  slaughters  on  the  Thebans,  and  by  him  fell  the  trio,  to 
wit,  Itys,  Sybaris,  and  Periphas.  A  Greek  hero,  Caeneos,  fell 
before  murderous  Haemon,  son  of  Creon,  a  Theban ;  and  as  he 
was  falling,  Abas,  a  Theban,  seized  the  man's  weapons,  and 
challenged  to  a  duel  on  his  behalf;  and  a  Greek  shot  an  arrow 
at  him,  and  left  him  lifeless. 

After  that  arose  a  priest  of  the  followers  of  Bacchus,  to  wit, 
Eunaeus ;  and  round  him  his  bright  beautiful  coloured  vesture 
in  which  he  used  to  offer  sacrifices  to  Bacchus ;  and  he  heaped 
vituperation  and  contempt  upon  all  the  Greeks,  and  this  is  what 
he  said :  "  Do  not  put  against  the  Thebans,  O  Greeks,"  said  he, 
"  for  brave  are  their  heroes,  mighty  their  gods,  and  strong  the 
wall  of  their  great  city."  But  when  the  fierce-mad  valour-mad 
Greek  king,  to  wit,  Capaneus,  heard,  he  awaited  him,  and  came 
to  meet  him  on  the  way  in  his  warlike  awful  arch,  and  he  shook 
and  brandished  the  sharp-edged  very  long  spear  with  its  fair 
straight  shaft  of  fine  cypress  wood  and  said :  "  Foolish  and 
womanish,"  said  he,  "  are  the  haughty  words  thou  sayest  to  the 
hosts.  And  pity  it  is  not  the  god  ye  worship  that  stands  in  thy 
likeness  now  :  for  if  it  were,  he  would  fall  by  me."  And  no 
sooner  had  he  said  that  than  he  delivered  a  straight-tooled  shot 
at  Eunaeus  so  that  it  split  his  shield,  and  broke  his  back,  and 
he  reached  earth  a  dead  man  forthwith. 

Then  Eteocles,  king  of  the  Thebans,  attacked  the  Greek 
soldiery  with  slaughters  and  vast  and  many  fetal  deeds,  so  that 
multitudes  were  quickly  slain  by  him  every  way  he  went. 
Polynices,  however,  gave  advantage  and  protection  to  the  The- 
bans for  the  sake  of  the  original  family  affection,  and  for  love  of 
his  own  native  land. 

183 


E.  35b  50  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  218a  28 

Is  andsiíi   rofobair    Amx)iaraus   int  uasalsacart  do    Grecaib  v®,  ' 
calma  do  denum  (p.  36),  7  rogres  a  eochu  ana  athloma  co  talchar 
tindisnach  coma  luaithred  lanmin  in  roe1  croda  comraic  da  eis 
each    co??air   concinget2   in    cairpthech    si??.    Et   ba   delradach 

2865  dathalai??d    isi??n    uair   si?*    amail    ren??a    rosollsi    taitnem3   a 
cathba[i]rr  cai?>?   c??maidi4  -j   a  sceith   cuanda  capradaig5   iter  694 
na  cathaib  ceachtarda,  -j  imasse  fa  na6  sluagaib  cowima  tregdaithi 
toitmithi7  trenfhir  tenda  Thiab«??o?a.8  fo  armaib  each  conair  ina 
slaiged9  in  sluag.    Et  is  andsi/i  rocomraic  dosum  ar  lar  in  chatha 

2870  -j  Flegias  feochair  firgarg  do  Tiahandaib,  7  rochuirset  comlond 
croda  cwrata  re  hed  7  re  hathaig,  co  rocreac/?inaig10  each  aroili 
dib ;  -j  i  forciund  in  co???ruic  dorochair  Flegias  do  lai???  ind 
arsid11  Ampiara?as.  Doriacht  ar  si??  chuici  fer  dian  dim??sach  aili 
do  Thiabandaib  .i.  Pilei??s,  7  rochuirset  (na)  cwaid  cruaidirgal  712 

2875  etwru,  7  rothoit  in  Tiabo??da  don  gleo  si??. 

Asa  haithli  sivi  robeansad  ris  (in  da)na12  ciwaid  croda  com-  714 
ro???acha13  do?i  chiniud  cetna  .i.  Cromis  7  Emetá;  7  rofuaibredar14 
ar  si?i  Ampiara??s  co  hainmi??  7  co  hacarb15.    Acht  ceana  ba  daib- 
sium  [tiugbas  Eg.]  tiugba16  in  tachair  si??,  uair  rothoitsed  do 

2S8ogcmaib  amaiwse  aicbeli  Ampiarams.  Atchondcadar  si??  tn'ar17 
talchar  trenfher  do  Tiaba??o?a?6.  Roluathi??dsaigsed  (ar)  Ampi- 
aro?is  do  digail  na  sarecAi18  si??  air  j.  Ipinorws19  -j  Ságis  -j  Giian 
glondmer  gaiscedach.  Et  frecrais  7  frithailis20  int  arnaid21  Ampi- 
ara??s  iat  o  brathbuillib  mera  mileta  coratis  fadba  fiarletairthe22 

2885  cuirp  chaewa  chnesgela23  na  c???^  co?xramach  ua  chrolindtib24 
f'ola  fichithi  for[r]uaidi25  da  eis.     Et  ar  na  toiti???  leis,  rofobair  718 
Alchatous  Tiabcmrfa  a  n-irgail  air,  7  ro[fh]rithail-sim?i26  he,  7  tar- 
raid  cloich  cruaid  comamais,-j  tarlaic[urchurEg.]  do  Alchaton?(S27, 
cór-bean  i  cleithi  i  cendmullaig28,  co  torcair  can  anmai/i. 

1  Eg.  an  re  2  Eg.  concingit  3  Eg.  ranna  soirsoillsi  taitnei/t 

4  Eg.  aum&aig  5  Eg.  capraidecb  °  Eg.  7  ixHsaeigb  fo  na 

7  Eg.  toitmeitbi  8  Eg.  Tiabanda  9  Eg.  ma  slaighedk  10  Eg.  re  ha,thai<j 
cor-uo  samalta  re  crotburf  gaitbe  na  laich  sin  7  cur-uo  crecbtnaig  u  Eg.  airsid 
E.  arsig  12  Eg.  ris  out.:  in  da  13  Eg.  comrurnacb  14  Eg.  rofo- 

pratar  15  Eg.  baimnin  acgarb  16  Eg.  tiugbbas  17  Eg.  sin  tra 

18  Eg.  ar  out.  ...na  n-echt  19  Eg.  Ipiniorus  20  Eg.  fritboilis  2l  E.  arnaig 
22  Eg.  co  mbidis  fadbbha  firletartba  -3  Eg.  cnesgbela  24  Eg.  comrumacba 
fo  cbrolinntib  25  Eg.  fiehidhthi  forruaidbi  26  Eg.  rofritboil-sb/i. 

27  Eg.  urcbur  dAlcadous  28  Eg.  a  cendmbull«iV/ 

184 


THE  THEBAID 

Then  Amphiaraus,  the  noble  Greek  priest,  essayed  to  do 
bravely,  and  he  urged  his  splendid  fleet  horses  resolutely  and 
hastily,  so  that  the  hard  battlefield  was  very  small  dust  behind 
him  every  way  that  chariot-fighter  went.  And  bright  beautifully 
coloured  at  that  time  as  very  splendid  stars  was  the  sheen  of 
his  fair  shapely  helmet,  and  of  his  fine  bossy  shield  between  the 
battalions  of  each  of  the  two  armies;  and  he  turned  about  among 
the  hosts,  so  that  the  keen  Theban  champions  were  pierced  and 
mowed  down  by  arms  every  way  in  which  he  hewed  the  host. 
And  there  encountered  him  in  the  midst  of  the  battle  Phlegyas, 
a  wild  and  very  fierce  Theban,  and  they  fought  a  bloody  heroic 
duel  for  a  space  and  a  time,  till  each  of  them  wounded  the 
other;  and  in  the  end  of  the  encounter,  Phlegyas  fell  by  the 
hand  of  the  veteran  Amphiaraus.  After  that  another  keen  proud 
Theban  came  unto  him,  to  wit,  Phyleus,  and  the  heroes  fought 
a  hard  contest  between  them,  and  the  Theban  fell  from  that 
fight. 

After  that  two  cruel  contentious  heroes  of  the  same  race 
attacked  him,  to  wit,  Chromis  and  Chremataon ;  and  they  assailed 
him  roughly  and  fiercely,  nevertheless  the  end  of  that  affray  was 
an  end  of  them,  for  they  fell  under  the  severe  and  terrible  wounds 
of  Amphiaraus.  Three  resolute  Theban  champions  saw  that.  They 
quickly  approached  Amphiaraus  to  avenge  on  him  those  out- 
rageous deeds,  to  wit,  Iphinous,  Sages,  and  daring  heroic  Gyas. 
And  the  veteran  Amphiaraus  answered  and  attended  them 
with  reckless  soldierly  lethal  blows  so  that  the  fair  white-skinned 
bodies  of  the  contentious  champions  were  bent  and  battered 
spoils  in  gory  pools  of  boiling  crimson  blood  behind  him.  And 
after  their  fall  by  him,  Alcathous,  a  Theban,  prepared  an  attack 
on  him,  and  he  awaited  him,  and  he  ran  for  a  hard  missile  stone, 
and  let  fly  at  Alcathous,  and  struck  him  on  the  top  of  his  crown, 
so  that  he  fell  lifeless. 

18; 


E.  36*  38  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  218b  33 

2890      Adchondairc  ri  sotal  sarechtach  do  Tiauandaib  int  echt  sinTyJ 
.i.  Ipsews1  mac  Assapos2,  -j  ba  trom  -j  ba  trengalar  les  na  hára  723 
acgarba  aidbli  dorad  Ampiaraw-s  ar  na  slogaib,  -j  nir-sel  fulang3 
do  gan  a  digail  air,  gen  gor-thais4  da  eneoch  amal  robui  fen  ac 
slaigi  gasraidi  Grec.    Et  o  roco??iraicedar  in  da  cwaid  croda 

2895  si??,  rogab  each  dib  ac  tarcaswi5  -7   ac   tomaithmrw  uar  aroili.  736 
O  'dchondairc  tra  Apaill  dea  na  faistine  si??,  tuc  urchar  da  ga 
don  araid  robui  i  carbat  Ampiaratos  .i.  Alegmo??,  co  rothoit  gan 
a[n]mam  asa6  carbud  araach,  -j  tanic  fen  'na  inad,  -\  rogob  deilb 
iwn  arad  fair,  -\  rue  les  na  (col.  /3)  heocha  ~\  in  carpad  ar  imgabail 

2900  Ipseiu.s7.  Et  robui  Apaill  andsin  ac  setugiid8  carpait  Ampiarau?'s, 
-j  ac  dirgud  a  urchar9,  -j  a[c]  certugud  a  ech,  cona  tabrad  in  fer  sin 
fasbuilli  710  urchur  cen  amus.  Rodidned  dono  he  cona  echaib  ar 
urcharaib  aicbeli  a  bidbad10.  Is  andsin  roiadsat  i?i  cethrar11 
curad-sadoTmbandaib  im  A»ipiarem,?  .i.  i??,  cosidi12  mer  mordalach 

2905  Menele?(5,  -j  in  marcach  ard  allata  Antip»s13,  -j  int  arsich  engmt??m  755 
Accion,  -j   in  laech   londmer  Lap?<.s.     Rocowgres  Apaill  eochu  760 
Ampiaram's  i  cend  na  c?i?-ad  sin  co  dian  -j  co  dasachtach,  -\  roimir 
cles  carpait  furru,  corPtorchradar14   ua  chosaib  na  n-ech,  co 
»[d]erna  comach  -j  combrud  da15  cnamaib  fa  chorraib  i?i  charbaid, 

2910  -j  co  fuaridar  bas.    Cid  tra  acht  ba  tairmesc  erma  -j  imtechta  764 
dona  hechaib  si??  Ampiaraim,  co  na  roictis  a  cosa  comgabail16  in 
talman  re  himad  na  corp  cnesgel  cwad17  letarthi  -j   na  sleg 
sesmach18  sir[sh]aiti  a  sechnachaib  na  saerchland  cor-ba  comderg 
uili  a  eich  -j  a  charpat  0  brtenaib  fola  falcmara  forruaidi  i  tsebaib 

2915  trenmilead  togaidi. 

Roben  immorro  Apaill  andsin  a  deilb  ndruidechta  de,  -j  da- 
chuaid19  na  richt  fen,  -j  rolobair20  re  hAmpiara?í6\  -j  is  ed  roraid  :  771 
"  Is  i  seo,"  ar  se,  "  cn'ch  -\  ci??diud21  do  shsegail,  -j  ni  edaim-sea 
t'  imdegail  ni  a[s]  sia,  -j  merdait22  do  scela  -j  do  chlu  co  forcend23 

292osaigail  -j  co  deread  n-aimsiri,  -j  erig  i  muigib  aduathmara  ifirn, 

1  Eg.  Ipiseus     2  E.  ,Ae|V\pop     3  Eg.  nir-fet  a  fhulang     4  Eg.  cein  cur-tais 
5  Eg.  tairci/sne  6  Eg.  asa/i  7  Eg.  Ipiseus  8  Eg.  sedugi«i 

9  Eg.  dirgud  ureh)/ir  10  Eg.  biduadh  «  Eg.  cethern  12  E.  cosigi 

13  Eg.  Intipus  14  Eg.  torchratar-son  15  Eg.  comach  7  combnsedh  da 

16  Eg.  roichdis  a  cossa  a  comgabail  17  Eg.  cburaid  18  Eg.  sesmacha 

19  Eg.  draigheachta  7  dochuaidh  20  Eg.  fen.    Eoben  veto  7  rolabair 

21  Eg.  cinded         22  Eg.  meraidh  23  Eg.  forcind 

186 


THE  THEBAID 

A  haughty  fierce  Theban  king,  to  wit,  Hypseus,  son  of  Asopus, 
saw  that  deed,  and  he  was  sad  and  in  deep  grief  because  of  the 
bitter  and  huge  slaughters  Amphiaraus  inflicted  on  the  hosts, 
and  he  could  not  endure  not  to  avenge  it  upon  him,  though  it 
did  not  diminish  his  honour,  as  if  he  himself  were  smiting  the 
Greek  soldiery.  And  when  those  two  brave  heroes  fought,  each 
of  them  began  to  insult  and  threaten  the  other.  Now  when 
Apollo,  god  of  prophecy,  saw  that,  he  made  a  cast  of  his  spear 
at  the  chariot-fighter  that  was  in  Amphiaraus'  chariot,  to  wit, 
Haliagmon,  so  that  he  fell  forth  lifeless  out  of  his  chariot,  and 
he  himself  came  in  his  place,  and  assumed  the  form  of  the 
chariot-fighter,  and  brought  with  him  the  horses  and  the  chariot 
so  as  to  avoid  Hypseus.  And  Apollo  was  there  driving  Amphi- 
araus' chariot,  directing  his  shootings,  and  guiding  his  horses,  so 
that  that  man  might  deliver  no  vain  blow  or  missing  shot. 
Also  he  and  his  horses  were  protected  against  the  dangerous 
shots  of  his  foes.  Then  round  Amphiaraus  closed  these  four 
Theban  heroes,  to  wit,  the  reckless  haughty  foot-soldier  Melaneus, 
the  lofty  famous  horseman  Antiphus,  the  veteran  of  prowess, 
Aetion,  and  the  wildly  reckless  Lampus.  Against  those  heroes 
Apollo  urged  Amphiaraus'  horses  keenly  and  madly,  and  he 
practised  a  chariot  feat  on  them  so  that  they  fell  under  the 
horses'  feet,  and  he  caused  an  utter  breaking  and  bruising  of 
their  bones  under  the  chariot  beaks,  and  they  died.  Nay,  it 
was  a  hindrance  to  the  course  and  progress  of  those  horses  of 
Amphiaraus  that  their  -feet  could  not  gain  a  hold  on  the  earth 
for  the  multitude  of  white-skinned  bodies  of  mangled  heroes 
and  of  the  upright  spears  thrust  far  into  the  hides  of  the  noble 
scions,  so  that  his  horses  and  his  chariot  were  all  red  with  the 
stains  of  copious  crimson  blood  in  the  sides  of  chosen  soldiers. 

Then,  moreover,  Apollo  doffed  his  wizard  shape,  and  went 
into  his  own  form ;  and  he  spoke  to  Amphiaraus,  and  this  is 
what  he  said  :  "  This,"  said  he,  "  is  the  bourne  and  limit  of  thy 
life,  and  I  am  unable  to  protect  thee  any  longer,  and  tales  of 
thee  and  thy  renown  will  remain  till  life's  close  and  time's  end. 
But  arise,  and  go  into  the  awful  plains  of  hell,  as  has  been 
187 


E.  36b  30  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  219b  5 

amal  rocinded1  dit;   uair  is  ferr  duid  ina  beth2  can  adbaid  v^" 
n-adnocail    i    tir  na  Tebi3   togaidi."     Ro[fh]recair  Ampiaraws  777 
do-sum,  -J  is  ed  roraid  :  "  A  uasail,  a  Apaill,"  ar  se,  "  roairigis  tu 
isi«  carpud  im  arrad4,  -j  is  fir  a  n-abraid5 ;  uair  adcluimm-sea  782 

2925  fen  srotha  g?-a[n]na  garbfuara  ifira  ara  trethan  -j  ara  tondgail 
aci??i6  iar[r]aid,  7  adclui/?i?ft  dono  Cerber  crsessoslaici 7,  cu  Oirc8, 
doirrseoir  i?nnedach  ifirw,  ac[om]  amastraig  7  aco??i  gairm9,  7 
ber-siu  let  na  coroni  coserctha10  atat  'mam  chend11,  uair  ni  dlegar 
a  mbreth    a   n-ifirw."    Roerich    immorro   Apaill    uad-swm   asa 

293ohaithli  sin,  7  ro[fh]acaib  e,  7  o  dachuaid  uad,  tuc  Ampiarcwis 
a  chnedcAwrad12  os  aird  re  hecla  i??d  etualamg. 

Et    is  andain  tanic  trethan13  7   talamchumscugud   mor  isi?i  794 
talracmi  a  rabadar,  co  roerig  a  luaithred  -]  a  langainem  cor-ua 
ceo  comdluith  cu??iascda14  i  ti??ichell  na  sluag.    Et  roco?/ierig15 

2935  torand  tren  mortolgach  ar  sin16  co  rochuibrig  ~\  co  rochengail  na 
catha  ceachtarda  nar-ba  tualaing  (p.  37)  duine17  dib  u?-sclaigi18 
na  hi?wbualad  isi?m  uair  sin,  acht  rouadar  'na  sescim  -j 19  cranda  a 
sleg  cosaiti20  re  n-ochtaib.  Et  o  rabadar-sowi  amlaid  sin  co  tai 
tostach  re  hecla  in  bresmadmanda  bratha  buaidirthe21,  adchua- 

294oladar  rodianscailed  in  talmaw  in  tan  sin,  comma  hall22  firdomum 
fudo?nanta23  forba24  na  faichthi  fondglaisi  ara  rabadar,  -\  rooslaic25 
in  islam  -j  rosluic  Ampiarazts  trenadbal  cona  armaib  -]  cona  erred 
-j  cona  echaib  -7  cona  charpad,  no  co  ranic26  co  hichtwr  ifirn  819 
n-aduair27  cen  cheim  ar  cula28. 

1  E.  rocindned    Eg.  roci/i<Zedh         2  Eg.  a  mbetha         s  Eg.  n-adnaeail  inas 
beth  a  tir  na  Teue  4  Eg.  am  farrad         5  Eg.  n-abraim  6  Eg.  treathan 

7  ara  tonngair  acom  7  E.  crsessoslaici   Eg.  craesfosl«('ci  8  Eg.  Oirc 

uruadaigb.  9  Eg.  acum  amastraigh  7  agum  gairm  10  Eg.  coiroine  coisreca 
11  Eg.  fom  cind  12  Eg.  cnet  13  Eg.  treathan  14  Eg.  comascdha 

15  Eg.  Et  0  roeirigh  16  Eg.  sin  7  17  E.  duni  18  E.  ursclaidi  Eg.  ursdaigi 
19  Eg.  sesaw  7  20  Eg.  saiti  21  Eg.  na  mbresmadmanda  mbratha  mbuaidhtha 
22  Eg.  como  hall  23  Eg.  fadomanta  24  Eg.  forpa  25  Eg.  roiqaelaig 

26  Eg.  co  n-armaib  7  erred  cona  echaib  7  carpat  co  rainic  27  Eg.  adhfhuair 

28  Eg.  cub/    E.  culrt,  a  late 


THE  THEBAID 

appointed  thee  ;  for  it  is  better  for  thee  than  to  remain  with  no 
sepulchral  abode  in  the  land  of  chosen  Thebes."  Amphiaraus 
answered  him,  and  this  is  what  he  said:  "  O  noble  one,  O  Apollo," 
said  he,  "  I  perceived  thee  in  the  chariot  beside  me,  and  what 
ye  say  is  true;  for  I  myself  hear  the  hideous  fiercely  cold  streams 
of  hell  in  their  wave  and  billow  searching  for  me,  and  I  hear 
also  open-mouthed  Cerberus,  the  dog  of  Orcus,  hell's  woeful 
door-ward,  baying  at  me  and  calling  me.  And  do  thou  bear  with 
thee  the  consecrated  chaplets  that  are  on  my  head,  for  they 
ought  not  to  be  borne  into  hell."  Apollo,  however,  went  from 
him  thereafter,  and  left  him  ;  and  when  he  had  gone  away  from 
him,  Amphiaraus  heaved  his  hero's  sigh  in  apprehension  of 
calamity. 

And  then  came  a  wave  and  a  great  earthquake  in  the  earth 
on  which  they  stood,  and  its  dust  and  abundant  sand  arose,  so 
that  it  was  a  veiy  dense  and  confused  mist  around  the  hosts. 
And  after  that  arose  strong  mightily  shattering  thunder,  so  that 
it  tied  and  bound  the  battalions  of  each  of  the  two  armies,  that 
no  man  of  them  was  able  to  ward  off  or  lay  about  him  at  that 
time,  but  they  remained  standing  with  the  shafts  of  their  spears 
fixed  against  their  breasts.  And  when  they  stood  thus  silent 
and  still  owing  to  fear  of  the  confused  crash  of  doom,  they  heard 
an  exceeding  swift  splitting  of  the  earth  at  that  time,  so  that 
the  glebe  land  of  the  green-surfaced  lawn  on  which  they  stood 
became  a  very  deep  abysmal  cliff,  and  the  earth  opened  and 
swallowed  strong  and  huge  Amphiaraus  with  his  arms,  armour, 
horses,  and  chariot  till  he  reached  the  bottom  of  chill  hell  with 
no  retreat. 


E.  37*  12  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  219b  33 

VIII 

2945      0  rasiacht  immorro  Ampiaraws  i  n-ifir/;,  rogob  grain  -\  ecla  vm" 
airechta  aduathmar[a]  ifim  remi ;    uair  nir-ba  haithnid1  daib 
connici  ún  rm\id  gan  marbad  na  heich  na  carbaid  do  rochtai»2  5 
chucu.   Et  tuc  Oirc,  ri  ifirn,  athais  mor  ar  deib  nuaglana  nirae 
'man3  fer  sin.  do  lecud4  chuci,  -j  dorigni5  spraic  moir-j  tomaitheam 

2950  adbul  ar  Ampiaraws  badesiw.    Ro[fh]recair  Ampiaraus  co  han- 
band6  -j  co  henirt  dosum,  -j  is  ed  roraid:  "Toirind  t'  [fhjeirg,"  arse,  93 
"  uair  ni  d'  i»dred  na  d'  argain  ifir??  tanac-sa,  -\  ni  tre  m'  olc  fen 
tuc[ad]7  chucaib-si  me,  acid  mo  ba?;cheli  fen  dam  brath  ar  i[n]8 
muntorc  oir  do  thobairt  do  Argia  di  .i.  do  mnai  VoMniceis.    Et  104 

2955  roailgiws-[s]a9  me  fen  ar  teiched  ihoigeachta  do  thogail  Tebi ; 
uair  rofhedur  co  fuigbi/id  m'  seided10  aici.  Et  na  bid  a  olc11 
acid-su  mo  thoideac/<£-sa12  ille ;  uair  dogentar  cluicheada  cain- 
techa  -j  adnocail28  onoracha  dam  ac  Grecaib,  -|  cuir-seo  me  a 
ngn'anbrogaib13  ailli28  ifirw."    Rocendsaiged14  tra  aicned  Oirc  o 

2960  'tchualaich15  sin,  -]  ro[fh]a?m16  gach  ni  roraid  Ampiaraws.  Da  rig- 
dec17  do  Tiabandaib  romarb  Ampiaraws  in  sacart  .i.  in  fer  tuaichill 
tuicsenach  da  thodochaide18. 

Imtwsa  na  nGrec,  immorro,  robadar  ac  iarraid  Ampiaram's 
sechnon  in  chatha;  uair  nir-bo  demiu  leo  a  aided19  inn  fhir  si/?, 

2965  1  ba  heclach  iad  resi?i  tulmaidm  talman  adchondcatar  ar  lar  in 
maigi  i  rabadar.    Et  in  am20  robadar  amlaid  si??,  (tanic)  Palemon21  135 
taisech  do  Grecaib  dochum  Adraist,  -j  roindis  do  aided22  Aro- 
ipiarauis  .i.  a  thoitira  isin  tulmaidm  thalman23,  -\  gan  a  faicsin  'na 
diaid,  1   adbert:  "A  airdri,"  ar  se,  "  facbum24  in  tir  n-aneoil 

2970  n-urbudach-sa  i  tangamar,  uair  itat  tulcha  na  Tebi  ac  slucad25 
na  slog,  -]  atat  a  cwraid  'gar  commaideam,  -j  a  fidei  'gar  mbrath 
1  'gar  trecun26."   Ro[s]hocht  Adraist  ara  n-ecein  sin27,  -\  rochreid 

1  E.  aitbnig    Eg.  aithnid        -  Eg.  do  riachtain       3  Eg.  mun       4  Eg.  lecen 
6  Eg.  doroine  6  Eg.  co  hanfand  7  Eg.  tucadh  8  E.  ari    Eg.  ari.ii 

9  Eg.  rofailgiusa  10  Eg.  fuighin/i  mh  aigerf  u  Eg.  na  bid  olc 

12  Eg.  tOljefA  13  Eg.  cuiridh-si  me  a  grianbrogaib  ifirn   E.  grianbrodaib 

14  Eg.  Rocennsaigh      15  Eg.  o  dochuaku'fl/f      i6  Eg.  rofsem      17  Eg.  da  ri  dhec 
18  E.  tkogochaide     Eg.  tuicsinach  toghocltaidi  19  E.  aiged    Eg.  leo  aiged 

20  Eg.  in  uair  21  Eg.  Tailemon  22  E.  aiged  23  Eg.  7  roinnis  do 

Aimp.  do  thoitim  tulmaidm  isin  talmai»  24  Eg.  facum  25  Eg.  slucadh 

26  Eg.  'car  trecan  27  Eg.  arin  hecin  sin  28  Eg.  ovi. 

190 


THE  THEBAID 


BOOK  VIII 


But  when  Amphiaraus  had  arrived  in  hell,  loathing  and  fear 
seized  the  horrible  assemblies  of  hell  before  him  ;  for  it  was  un- 
known to  them  hitherto  that  soldiers  unslain,  or  horses  or  chariots 
should  reach  them.  And  Orcus,  king  of  hell,  heaped  great  re- 
proach on  the  fresh  bright  gods  of  heaven  about  allowing  that 
man  to  come  to  him,  and  he  made  great  reprimand  and  vast 
menace  against  Amphiaraus  himself.  Amphiaraus  answered  him 
very  weakly  and  without  vigour,  and  this  is  what  he  said :  "Abate 
thine  anger,"  said  he,  "since  it  is  not  to  raid  and  harry  hell  that 
I  have  come  ;  and  it  is  not  through  mine  owti  ill-doing  that  I 
have  been  brought  to  you,  but  through  mine  own  wife's  betraying 
me,  in  order  that  the  necklace  of  gold  might  be  given  her  by 
Argia,  to  wit,  the  wife  of  Polynices.  And  I  myself  was  desirous 
of  escape  from  coming  to  sack  Thebes ;  for  I  knew  that  I  should 
meet  my  fate  there.  And  let  not  my  coming  hither  be  evil  in 
thy  sight ;  for  funeral  games  and  honourable  obsequies  will  be 
made  for  me  by  Greeks ;  and  do  thou  put  me  into  the  beautiful 
sunny  plains  of  hell."  Now  the  nature  of  Orcus  was  soothed 
when  he  heard  that,  and  he  allowed  everything  that  Amphiaraus 
had  said.  Twelve  Theban  kings  had  Amphiaraus  the  priest 
slain,  to  wit,  a  man  crafty  and  intelligent  as  to  his  future. 

As  regards  the  Greeks,  however,  they  were  searching  for  Am- 
phiaraus throughout  the  battle ;  for  they  were  not  certain  of 
that  man's  fate,  and  they  were  terrified  at  the  sudden  bursting 
of  the  earth  which  they  had  seen  in  the  midst  of  the  plain  on 
which  they  stood. 

And  when  they  stood  thus,  Palaemon,  a  Greek  chief,  came  to 
Adrastus,  and  related  to  him  Amphiaraus'  fate,  to  wit,  that  he 
had  fallen  into  the  sudden  bursting  of  the  earth,  and  had  not 
been  seen  afterwards,  and  he  said:  "O  high-king,"  said  he,  "let 
us  leave  this  strange  baleful  land  into  which  we  have  come,  for 
the  hills  of  Thebes  are  swallowing  the  hosts,  their  heroes  are 
bragging  over  us,  their  gods  betraying  and  forsaking  us." 
Adrastus  was  silent  at  that  calamity,  and  he  at  once  believed 
191 


E.  37a  51  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  220«  30 

a  chetoir  si??,  cei[n]  no  co1  tangadar  (col.  /3)  dias  aile  do2  munti'r  VIII ' 
chuci  .i.  Mopsws  1  Actor3,  7  cor-i??diseadar  ana4  cetna  do  cona  151 

2975  thuilled  1  cona  tormuch.  Et  is  don  seel  si»  roimpotar  catha 
croda  na  nG?-ec  dochum  a  longp///?-t  co  teichech5  -j  co  ti??dis- 
nach  gan  c/m'ch  co???lai??d  *j  gan  rebchatha  do  corugwd.  Ua 
scitha6  a  n-eich  -j  a  n-araid,  -7  bat7  mertnecha  a  mih'a7,  7  ba 
toirsech  a  trenfhir  a  haithli  na  hirgaili  si??  ar-tuit  Ampiaraiis8. 

2980  Dala  na  Tiabanda,  immorro,  ba  subach  sonairt  rochifigset9,  7 
tanic  ind  adaid10  fae  sin. 
Cetcath  na  Tebi  sin. 

Ba    dubach    domeanmnach    tra    rochaithseadar   Gm'c"    in 
n-aidchi  si??  ina  longp/;o?'t12,  -\   ni   head  molad  a  n-ech  n[a] 

2985  a  n-engn?<7?ia  fei?i  dorindsed,  acht  cornroma13  Ampiaraiw's  -j  a  171 
gnimrada14   gaiscedacha   d'  i??disin.  Et  rochi??dsead15   sollamna 
saineamla  7  idbarta  onoracha  do  denam  do.    Et  robadar  sni/»a 

I  sirimshnima16  in  chathaigthi  co  mor  ara  menraain  daib17  na 
nGrec,  cei??  no  co  rortoit18  a  suan  7  a  sirchodlud19  orru. 

2990      Nir-ba  hamlaid  sin  tra  rochaithset  na  Tiabanda  ind  aidchi  218 
si??,  acht  robadar  ac  ol  -]  ac  aibniws  -j  ac  admolad  a  n-engmtma, 
a  n-aithrech  -\  a  senaithrech20  -]  ic  idbartaib  da  n[d]eib21  uaisli 
adartha.    Et  is  i  si/t  cetadaig22  i??dister  Eidip  mac  Lai?«*s  athair  240 
Ethioclew  -j  Poliniceis  do  tobairt  a  haithli  a  dalta  d'  ol   -j   d' 

2995  aibniws  dochum  na  Tiabanda,  -\  iwdister  cunnar-foilcead  a  fholt 
-j  conar-hi?tdlad23  a  aiged  o  radallad  he  co  hses  na  fuairi-sea  ar 
met24  na  duba.  Et  ni  d'  ol  na  d'  aibnis  dono  tainic  cucu  isinn 
aidchi  si??,  acht  do  co??anorad  in  chatha  iter  na  Tiabandaib  7  na 
G?'ecaib,  7  ba  halai?id  in  cleithi  donid-som  sin25,  7  is  amlaid  si??  254 

3000  robadar   in    lucht  si?i  in   aidchi   sin.    Adraist,   immorro,  ardri 
G?*ec26,    ge    rachadladar   a   shloig   re    hathscis   na    hirgaili,  ni  259 
rachadail    fen   ac    eistecht27    re   gairib   suba   7    somenmara   na 

1  Eg.  cein  co  2  Eg.  dias  ele  da  3  Eg.  Mopsus  7  Agtor 

4  Eg.  co  roinnsitar  in  5  Eg.  tec/iedhach  6  E.  na  gau  c/i/f'ch...Eg.  coraclh 
fo  scithi       '  Eg.  7  ba       8  Eg.  sin  Aimpiarus       9  Eg.  rocin^sit.      10  E.  agaid 

II  Eg.  Greedha  12  Eg.  in  aigirf  sin  ina  longportaibh  13  Eg.  doronsat 
acht  comrad  14  Eg.  gnimartha  15  Eg.  rocinnsit  ls  Eg.  sirinsnima 
17  Eg.  ara  menmain  doibh  i8  Eg.  cor-tuitsit  19  Eg.  a  sircotlud 
20  Eg.  sen-athrec/i  21  Eg.  ac  idbairt  dona  deibh  -  E.  cetagaig  Eg.  ceiaigtd 
23  Eg.  7  nar-  24  Eg.  huaire  sin  ar  met  25  Eg.  doni-s/iíí*  andsin 
26  Eg.  7  airdriglia  Grec                27  Eg.  roeotaiteit  fen  ag  eisteacht 

I92 


THE  THEBAID 

that,  until  two  others  of  his  people  came  to  him,  to  wit,  Mopsus 
and  Actor,  and  related  the  same  things  to  him,  and  more  in 
addition.  And  at  that  tale  the  brave  battalions  of  the  Greeks 
turned  about  unto  their  camp  in  flight  and  in  haste  without 
arranging  an  end  of  conflict  and  a  feat  of  battle.  Tired  were 
their  horses  and  their  chariot-fighters,  and  exhausted  were  their 
soldiers,  and  sad  were  their  champions  after  that  struggle  in 
which  Amphiaraus  had  fallen.  As  regards  the  Thebans,  however, 
joyously  and  powerfully  they  marched,  and  thereupon  came  the 
night. 

That  is  the  first  battle  of  Thebes. 

Now  gloomily  and  dejectedly  did  the  Greeks  pass  that  night 
in  their  camp,  and  it  was  not  praise  of  their  horses  or  their  own 
prowess  that  they  engaged  in,  but  in  relating  Amphiaraus'  com- 
bats and  his  heroic  deeds.  And  they  resolved  that  divers  festivals 
and  honourable  sacrifices  should  be  made  to  him.  And  cares 
and  the  long  deep  anxieties  of  the  war  pressed  greatly  upon  the 
mind  of  the  Greeks,  till  sleep  and  long  slumber  fell  upon  them. 

Now  it  was  not  thus  that  the  Thebans  spent  that  night,  bufc 
they  were  engaged  in  drinking,  making  merry,  and  extolling 
the  prowess  of  their  fathers  and  grandfathers,  and  in  offering 
sacrifices  to  their  noble  gods  that  are  to  be  worshipped.  And  it 
is  related  that  that  was  the  first  night  after  he  had  been  blinded 
that  Oedipus  son  of  Laius  and  father  of  Eteocles  and  Polynices, 
was  brought  unto  the  Thebans  to  drink  and -make  merry;  and 
it  is  related  that  his  hair  had  not  been  rinsed,  and  his  face  had 
not  been  washed,  since  he  was  blinded,  till  the  period  of  this  hour, 
owing  to  the  greatness  of  his  gloom.  And  it  was  not  to  drink  or  to 
make  merry  even  that  he  had  come  to  them  that  night,  but  to  urge 
on  the  war  between  the  Thebans  and  the  Greeks,  and  beautiful 
was  the  pre-eminence  with  which  he  did  that.  And  thus  were 
those  people  that  night.  As  for  Adrastus,  however,  high-king  of 
Greeks,  though  his  hosts  slept  with  the  fatigue  of  the  struggle, 
he  himself  did  not  sleep  as  he  listened  to  the  Thebans'  shouts 
c  193  13 


E.  37b  36  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  220b  26 


Tiahanda  isan  aidci  si??,  7  ba  hadbul  a  i??i[sh]ni??i  leis-[s]eo??? 


LTheb. 

VIII 


SI??. 

3005      0   thanic,   immorro,   la    co2    lansoillsi    arnabarach,    dorigned  271 
condi3  -j  co??iairli  ac  G?-ecaib  da  ordugwd  cia  norigfaidis4  i  n-inad 
Ampiara?«s,  -j  dogenad5  faisti/?e  7  fireolws  d'  aisneis  dara  eiss 
daib.    Is  he  trá  rohordaiged  leo  'na  inad  [.i.  Eg.]  in  fisid  fireo- 
lach  .i.  Tiodomos  mac  MelamfWs8,  7  is  e  athair  i?id  fhir  si??  279 

3oioMelamfws  dormdi  faisti/?e  aroen  re  hAmpiaraus  do  G?-ecaib  re 
teacht  ar  in  sluaiged  si??.    Et  o  rahorned7  tra  co  honorach  and- 
siw  Tiodo???,us  i  ??n-inad  Ampiarawts,  roeirig  co  subach  in  sacart 
sin,  -j  dorigned8  idbarfca   -j   admolta  les  a  n-o??oir  na  ba??de9  297 
Terra  .i.  in  talam  ar  bithi?z  na  dianscailed  7  na  dluiged10   fo 

3oi5G?-ecaib  amal  dorigne  ba11  Ampiara??s;  7   darondad   dono   leo 
idbarta    7    adnucul    onorach    (p.    38)    -j   cluichi12  caintecha   d'  343 
Ampiaraiis. 

Et  o  thairnig  sin,  roerigetar  badba  belde?-ga  bruthmara   7 
irdemna  aduathmara  ichtair  ifir??  co  cathraig  na  Tiaba??íía  da 

302oaslach  -j  da  fw?*ail  fo?-ru  comergi  d'  indsaigid  na  nG?^?c.    Et  is 
bee  na  rosrainit  ass  a  sludraigib  tigi  na  Tebi  re  trethan  7  re 
tindscedul  na  Tiahanda  andsi??  a[c]  comergi  i  ??n-oenfec/ii  dar  352 
secht  ndoirrsib  delithi  arda  uraibni13  na  cathrach  co??idaingni  re 
grasacht  na  mbadb  mbuaidirthi14  siw  oru.  Et  is  amlaid-seo  dochu- 

3025  adar  amach  .i.  rogres  Creo??  croda  errata  a  buidi?i  dar  in  dor«s 
n-ard  [n-allata  Eg.]  solwglan  danad  ainm  Oegis;  7  ta??ic  Ethiocl«s 
ardri  na  Tiahanda15  dar  in  dor?/s  niawda16  n-alai??d  .i.  Neistae. 
Niam  orda  robai  fair17.    Tanic  Emon  airsid  conna  fwrigaib  dar  354 
dorus  Emolois18.  Chi??d  leo??ian  a  comartha  seic.  Roerig  immorro 

3030  Ipseiíís  mac  Asopas  dar  dor??s  primda  P?"odida19.    Delba  drego??20 
doriudad  and-seig21.    Tanic  Drias  dasachtach  .i.  ri  Tanagura  on  355 
uarda   oigretaig  cona  dirmaib   deagsluaig22    dar   don?s   alai?id 
Eleac/?£ra23.    Nathracha  rofursan?iait  andside.    Ta??ic  Euri???,edo?z 

1  Eg.  leosum             -  Eg.  la  cona             3  Eg.  coinne  4  Eg.  norighfidis 

5  Eg.  do  denum         6  Eg.  Titodomus  mac  Melampus         7  Eg.  o  rohonoirt ir/a/ 

8  E.  dorigni    Eg.  dorinxedh            9  Eg.  na  mbainn  ndei  10  Eg.  ar  bithin 

an  talnirtn  nach  dluighedh  7  naeh  dianscailed       n  Eg.  fa  12  Eg.  cluichodlia 

13  Eg.  uraibhne                  14  Eg.  mbadi'i  mbuaidirta  15  Eg.  ard  na  Teue 

16  Eg.  aiumdaigh                      17  Eg.  rouai  furri  18  E.  GoOoifein 
Eg.  Emobois  cinn...Koeridh      19  E.  JO"01T)A      20  Eg.  diacan       21  Eg.  sidheic 

22  Eg.  fhuardha  oigreta  cona  dirmonaibh  desgursluagh  23  Eg.  Elecctra 
194 


THE  THEBAID 

of  joy  and  gladness  that  night,  and  that  was  a  grave  anxiety  in 
his  regard. 

But  when  day  came  with  full  light  on  the  morrow,  a  meeting 
and  a  council  were  held  by  Greeks  to  ordain  whom  they  should 
make  king  in  Amphiaraus'  stead,  and  who  should  cause  prophecy 
and  true  guidance  to  be  promulgated  to  them  after  him.  Now 
he  that  was  ordained  in  his  stead  was  the  very  skilful  wizard,  to 
wit,  Thiodamas  son  of  Melampus ;  and  it  was  the  father  of  that 
man  Melampus  who  had  made  prophecy  along  with  Amphiaraus 
to  Greeks  before  going  on  that  hosting.  And  now  when  Thio- 
damas had  there  been  ordained  honourably  in  Amphiaraus' 
stead,  that  priest  arose  joyfully,  and  sacrifices  and  laudations 
were  offered  by  him  in  honour  of  the  goddess  Terra,  to  wit,  the 
earth,  because  it  did  not  suddenly  split  and  rend  under  the 
Greeks  as  it  had  done  under  Amphiaraus ;  and  also  sacrifices 
were  made  by  them,  and  an  honourable  sepulture,  and  funeral 
games  to  Amphiaraus. 

And  when  that  was  finished,  red-lipped  furious  goddesses  and 
awful  demons  of  lowest  hell  went  to  the  city  of  the  Thebans  to 
persuade  and  to  enjoin  upon  them  to  make  a  joint  rising  against 
the  Greeks.  And  the  houses  of  Thebes  were  almost  turned  out 
of  their  foundations  by  the  surge  and  outset  of  the  Thebans 
there,  as  they  arose  together  at  once  through  seven  conspicuous 
lofty  very  pleasing  doors  of  the  strong  city  at  the  urging  of  those 
agitating  goddesses.  And  thus  they  went  forth,  to  wit,  cruel 
heroic  Creon  urged  his  company  through  the  lofty  bright-pure 
door  called  Ogygiae.  And  Eteocles,  high-king  of  the  Thebans, 
came  through  the  shining  beautiful  gate,  to  wit,  Neistae.  A 
golden  radiance  rested  upon  it.  Haemon,  a  veteran  with  his 
viceroys,  came  through  the  door  Homoloides.  Lions'  heads  its 
token.  Moreover,  Hypseus,  son  of  Asopus,  arose  through  the 
principal  door,  Proetiae.  Forms  of  dragons  were  engraved  thereon. 
Mad  Dryas,  to  wit,  the  king  of  Tanagrae,  from  the  icy  frigid 
zone  with  his  multitudes  of  a  goodly  host  came  through  the 
beautiful  gate,  Electrae.  Serpents  blazed  thereon.  Eurymedon, 
195  13-2 


E.  38a  24  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  221^  29 

cona   niuntir   mormenmnaig   dar  dorws1   n-ilbrec  danad  ain?n  V1I1' 

3035  Ipsitas.    Delba  loiscend2  batar  andside.    Tanic  dono  in  mi\id 
mormenmnach  Menidcheus  dar  dorus  ndaingen  Dirse.    Delba  357 
buthfad3  badar  andside.    Nir-ba  suaill  am  inni  ris  ba  samalta 
comergi  int  [shjluaig  sin  ac  facbail4  na  cathrach  .i.  re  fuaim 
■j  re  fothrand  na  fairrgi  fondglaisi  co  cn'thnaig  -j  co  co?ngluais 

3040  in    cruiwdi    comfhairsing   re    treathan   na   tond   ac   tn'all    tar 
trachtaib  in  tabncm. 
y^aSi^£^£Sb.         Dala   na   nGrec,   immorro,   roergedar   co    malla^  mertnech  363 

dochum  in  chatha  in  la  sin,  -7  roiaclsat  andsin  munter  Ampiaraim 
in  r^y  &  [m   Tiodomas   mac    Melampas6,    co    robjb    in    sechtm&d   ri    do 

3045  Grecaib  in  la  sin  isin  cath7.    Is  andsin  roordaich  gach  ri  dib 
sm  a  trein8  -j  a  thaisich  inna  fiadnaisi  fri  comruc  -j  cathugud 
dar  a  ceand.   Mairg  am  do  Grecaib9  -j  do  Tiahandaib  da  tanic  375 
in  la  sin,  uair  rofacbaid  airechta  gan  urrigu  dib,  -j  tuatha  cen 
taisechu,  -j  baileda10  gen  brugudu11,  -j  cathbairr12  chaemu  cen 

3050  cwradu,   1   airm   gen   fiadnu,   -j    carbaid    cen    comarbada13,   da  385 
comergi  don  gleo  garbtren  in  lse  sin. 

Is  andsiw  robui  co  seasmach  sirshiublach  in  crod&chumachtach 
Mairt  .i.  dea14  in  chatha,  -j  sleagh  aithger  amnas15  ina  laira 
consnigtis  -]  conreithdis16  ria  srotha  falcmara  fola  o  fograinne 

30s  5  co  hwrlaind  oc  thairrfigairi  bais  (col.  /3)  -\  aideada  na  cursA 
ceach tarda,  co  roco/ntheann  -j  cor-comgres17  co  hacgarb  anin- 
deach  na  hairsidi18  athloma  sin  dochum  a  chele  1  in  chathaigthi, 
co  na19  tard  nech  dib  sin  a  cn'ch  na  [a  Eg.]  cathraig  dariacht. 
Ros-lin20  fuailfed  fergi  flthigi21  [iad  Eg.],  coma  hurlorna  lama  na  399 

3060  loechraidi  do  chlaidbib  crnaidi  cathaigthi  -j  do  slegaib  seta 
sodibraicthi22  re  hailgins  na  hirgaili. 

Cid  tra  acht  na  bad  mera  milid23  in  chatha,  uair  ba  hadbul 
re  aisneis  trethan  -j  tindenas  na  [n-]ecnrad  n-allmarda  ac  com- 
chrathad    na  carpat   ac   foshenm24    na    srianmireand,   co/ndais 

1  E.  darus  2  Eg.  bathfadh  3  Eg.  bathfad  4  Eg.  faccuail 

6  Eg.  mall  6  Eg.  Tidotomas  mac  Melampim  cor-uo  he  an  vn  ri     E.  Mene- 

lapas         7  Eg.  cath  e         8  Eg.  treoin  9  Eg.  Mairc  ani  da  tanic  in  la  sin  ac 

Grecaibh  uair  10  Eg.  bailte  n  E.  brugugu  12  E.  caithbairr 

13  Eg.  comarbha  14  Eg.  dee  15  Eg.  amhnas  16  Eg.  rachiis  17  Eg.  cor- 
rogress  18  Eg.  hairsidh  19  Eg.  dochum  a  cele  d'  incZsaighi  an  cathaigthe 
co  nach  2U  Eg.  dorochtain.  Eolin  21  Eg.  feircci  fichaidi  iad  22  Eg.  sodiu- 
braicthe        23  Eg.  acht  bat  mera  a  mileta     E.  milig       24  Eg.  7  ac  fosheinm 

iq6 


THE  THEBAID 

with  his  great-spirited  people,  came  through  a  speckled  gate 
named  Hypsistae.  Figures  of  frogs  were  thereon.  The  great- 
spirited  soldier  Menoeceus  also  came  through  the  strong  door, 
Dircaeae.  Forms  of  bittern  were  thereon.  It  was  no  mean  thing, 
indeed,  which  the  rising  of  that  host  resembled  as  they  left  the 
city,  to  wit,  the  sound  and  subdued  thunder  of  the  green-surfaced 
sea,  so  that  it  shakes  and  convulses  the  wide  globe  with  the 
storm  of  the  billows  as  they  roll  over  the  strands  of  the  earth. 

As  to  the  Greeks,  however,  they  arose  tardily  and  weakly  unto 
the  battle  that  day,  and  there  the  people  of  Amphiaraus  gathered 
round  Thiodamas,  son  of  Melampus,  so  that  he  was  one  of  the 
seven  Greek  kings  that  day  in  the  battle.  Then  each  of  those 
kings  ordered  his  champions  and  chiefs  into  his  presence  to  fight 
and  do  battle  for  them.  Sad  indeed  it  was  for  Greeks  and 
Thebans,  when  that  day  came ;  for  companies  of  them  were 
left  without  their  officers,  tribes  without  chiefs,  towns  without 
yeomen,  fair  helms  without  heroes,  arms  without  bearers,  and 
chariots  without  charioteers  because  of  their  engaging  in  the 
fierce  and  strong  battle  that  day. 

There  was  steadfastly  and  ever  on  the  move  the  cruel  and 
mighty  Mars,  to  wit,  the  god  of  war,  with  a  very  sharp  hard 
spear  in  his  hand,  from  which  used  to  drip  and  flow  profuse 
streams  of  blood  from  point  to  haft  presaging  the  death  and 
doom  of  the  heroes  of  each  of  the  two  armies.  And  he  hurried 
and  urged  roughly  and  angrily  those  active  veterans  unto  one 
another  and  unto  the  fighting,  so  that  he  restored  none  of  those 
to  the  confines  or  to  the  city  whence  he  had  come.  A  convulsion 
of  boiling  rage  filled  them,  so  that  the  hands  of  the  hero-folk 
were  ready  with  heroic  swords  of  war  and  with  long  well-casting 
spears  for  joy  at  the  conflict. 

Nay,  hardly  was  it  the  battle-soldiers  that  were  reckless,  for 
it  were  much  to  relate  the  onrush  and  haste  of  the  savage  horses 
as  they  violently  shook  the  chariots  and  jingled  the  bridle-pieces, 
197 


E.  3sb  12  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  221b  29 

3065  suarca     sneachtaidi1     na     faicheada     fondglasa    risna    caeboib  VIjj 
coemchubair2  consnigtis  co   siradbol    dar    oilib3    na    hechraidi 
each  conaiiji  concingtis  na  cairpthig.    Et  is  andsi??  rocomaicsich 
each   d'  aroile4  dib,  7   ba   he   dlus   rohimnaiscid5  na  hairsidi6 
fsi/?,  co  coraraictis  a  t?'oigthi  ar  n-ichti/?-  7  a  n-aigthi  ar  n-uachtiw, 

3070 1  a  sceith  chuanna  chabradacha  re  'roili,  7  a  cloidbi  crwadgera  399 
cathaigthi,  -j   a  cathbairr  choe??ia  chwwimaidi   re   cheli,  coma 
sna[s]ta  [data]  dat[h]a  -j  dellradacha  dona  c?midaigib7.   Badar  ac 
na  cwradaib  cathbairr  thaidlecha8  aroili  cei»  no  co  roforruamait 
a  iraaad  na  fala  a  corpthaib  na  cwrad  ac  i?Hco??ibualad9  iartoin. 

3075  Et  o  raerig  conf'ad  coratnuthach  cosmw/iach  iter  na  cwradaib  406 
si/?  7  romearaia  menmanrfa  na  miled,  rocArithnaich  in  talam 
trenadbul    re    trethnaich10   na   trenfher  re  tendta  in  tachair, 
comma   breasmaidm    buaidirtha   crislach    cocuasta    na    firma- 
méiíidti,  amal  comewmaisctis11  na  gaetha  garbgluairi12  gad[s]nim-  423 

3080  acha13  in   ceathar  duil  comairsifig  co  nn-aiceantaib  examla14, 
amal  wobetis  isi??  caip  ewmaseda  as  ar-tebitartwsco  taibseanach 
.i.  asm  mais.    Et  ba  hiwdtamuil  aidchi  dona  hairsidib  sin  re  412 
hirgail    neoil15  dorcha  dermairi  na  n-arwz  n-exam£a  aca   fidi- 
brugun16  co  dluith  os  in  degshluag  comma  citmafig   int   aer 

3085  anbthenach  uastu17  re  himud  na  n-wchar  aca  n-athchur  etiwru.  419 
Uair  rochomdibraicid  andsiii  bera  aithgera  iarnaidi,  7  rofrasaid18 
slega  suainmecha  sodibraici.    Et  rolseit  cairgi  comchruindi  a 
taiblib    tulamais,  contaidlitis19   amal   saignena   soh/sta   os   na 
sluagaib,  7  rotelgid  saitheada  sarechta  sceget  etwrru,  -j  ni  talam20 

309ocontaidlidis  ac  toitim  na  hairm  sin,  acht  anad  i  cendaib  cwrad 

-j   i   taebaib   trenfher  7  i   sleasaib  saerchlo/Vfcfyf.    Cid   tra    acht 

rothimchill  each  a  chele  dib  andsin  (p.  39),  amal  timchellas 

tond  mara  moir  ochra  cuan21  7  calad,  7  darala  na  comracaib  iad. 

Is  andsi?i  darala  Ipsews  mac   Asopas  do  Tiabandaib  aigid  428 

3095  ind   agaid22   7    Menalca   do    G?^ecaib  .i.  taisech  na  nEoballda. 

1  Eg.  comdais  soillsi  sneachtaidi      2  Eg.  csepaib  eubuir      3  Eg.  dar  oibhlibh 
4  Eg.  rocoimfoicsidbsit  each  re  'roili  5  Eg.  dlus  tra  roimfoicsidhsit 

6  E.  hairsigi  7  E.  data  derlad  7... Eg.  snasta  a  ndatha  7  a  ndellrarf  dona 

citwidthaibh  8  Eg.  a  cathbairr  toidhlecha  9  Eg.  roforruamnait  frassa  fola...ac 
a  n-imbualad   E.  in  co?nbualad  10  Eg.  treathan  n  Eg.  rocumaiscdis 

12  Eg.  garbha  glordha  13  Eg.  gaidhsnimacha  14  Eg.  hecsamla  15  Eg.  hirgoil 
neoill  16  Eg.  náiubrucudh  17  Eg.  uasta  18  Eg.  rofrasat  i9  Eg.  contoighlidis 
20  Eg.  soighet  eturra  7  ni  talam      21  Eg.  eochra  cuain      22  E.  aighid  ind  agaig 

I08 


THE  THEBAID 

so  that  the  green-surfaced  plains  were  pleasant  and  snowy  with 
the  Hecks  of  fine  foam  that  continually  dripped  in  steady 
abundance  from  the  jaws  of  the  horses  every  way  the  charioteers 
might  go.  And  then  each  of  them  approached  the  other,  and 
such  was  the  closeness  with  which  those  veterans  mutually  joined 
that  their  feet  fought  below  and  their  faces  above,  and  their  fine 
■bossy  shields  one  with  another,  and  their  hard  and  sharp  swords 
of  war,  and  their  fair  shapely  helmets  one  with  another,  so  that 
gallant  and  comely  were  the  colours  and  the  shinings  of  the 
ornaments.  The  heroes  had  other  gleaming  helmets  till  they 
were  reddened  by  the  showering  blood  from  the  bodies  of  the 
heroes  at  the  mutual  smiting  afterwards.  And  when  an  envious 
contentious  rage  arose  among  those  heroes,  and  had  excited  the 
minds  of  the  soldiers,  the  strong  and  huge  earth  shook  before 
the  storm  of  the  champions  owing  to  the  pressure  of  the  fray, 
so  that  the  hollow  dome  of  the  firmament  was  a  troubled  crash, 
as  if  the  rough-voiced  withe-twisting  winds  mingled  and  con- 
founded the  four  expansive  elements  with  their  diverse  natures, 
as  they  used  to  exist  in  the  confused  mass  out  of  which  they 
were  evidently  hewn  at  first,  to  wit,  from  the  mass.  And  it  was 
like  night  to  those  veterans  owing  to  the  strife  of  dark  and 
exceeding  great  clouds  of  diverse  arms  being  thickly  hurled 
above  the  goodly  host,  so  that  the  stormy  air  above  them  was 
congested  owing  to  the  multitude  of  the  casts  being  exchanged 
between  them.  For  very  sharp  iron  darts  were  hurled  there, 
and  thonged  well-casting  spears  were  showered.  And  rounded 
stones  were  thrown  from  forehead-smiting  slings,  so  that  they 
shimmered  like  bright  lightnings  above  the  hosts,  and  lethal 
flights  of  arrows  were  cast  between  them.  And  it  was  not  earth  in 
which  those  arms  shimmered  as  they  fell,  but  they  remained  in 
the  heads  of  heroes,  in  the  sides  of  champions,  and  in  the  flanks 
of  nobles.  Nay,  each  man  of  them  encircled  the  other,  as  a  great 
sea  wave  encircles  borders  of  havens  and  harbours,  so  they  met 
in  their  encounters. 

There  Hypseus,  son  of  Asopus,  a  Theban,  met  face  to  face 
Menalcas,  a  Greek,  the  chief  of  Oebalia.   Theban  Hypseus  scat- 

199 


E.  39a  5  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  222a  32 

Roscail  -J  ros-crothastar1    Ipse»s   Tiahanda    munter   Menalca,  Í1*' 
Cftr-[fh]acsad  a  tigerna  a  oemir  i  n-eigi/i  irgaili  da  n-eis.    Is 
and  sin  roc/ifti'r-seo?»  c?/radchomlond  re  hlpseiis  re  re  cian,  -j  o 
thar[r]aid  bsegal  gona  ar  in  nGrecda  sift  i  lleith2  da  druim,  co  434 

3100  rop  don   leith  araill  dotharraing   Menalcos3  as  in  sleig;  -j  ac 
toitim  (do),  datharlaic4  urchor  do  Ipsews  di,  co  rus-gon,  *j  adbath 
fen  fo  chetoir.    Acvs  asa  haithli  tarlaic  airsid  ammai??dsech5  do  438 
Thi-abandaib  .i.  Amindtus  urchar  do  saigit  do  Iasid 6  mac  Pedimim 
do  Grecaib  co  torchair  de7.     Is   andsift   rocomraic   coraid   do 

3105  Cailidondaib  .i.  Agreius  re  trenfher  do  Ti&bandaib  A.  Pegeius,  442 
-j  robui8  each  dibh  a[c]  co?nairlech9  aroli,  co  tuc  Agrcifts10  builli 
do  Peig11,  co  roben  a  laim  fides  on  gualaind12  de,  -\  co  rothoit 
lam  in  laich  sin.    Robui  ac  siubal  -[  ac  lemnig  ar  lar  -j  a  claideb13 
comnert  inti.    Et  o  'tchondairc  Acetes  do  Grecaib  si»,  tanic 

31 10 1  rotrenbuail  in  laim  ar  lar,  co  rits-crechtnaig  co  mor.    Rocomraic 
andsin  Ipis  do  Thi&bandaib  re  hAccamas  n-anacarach  do  G?-ecaib,  445 
-]  rothoit  in  Tiauanda  do  gonaib  in  Grecda  si».    Rocomraic  dono 
aris  do  Ipseus14  mac  Asoptus  -|  do  Arcws15  engn»?/iach  do  G?-ecaib. 
Rogargaigsead  a  ngliaid,  -j  roc?-uadaigsed  a  co??ilond,  -j  rothoit 

31 1 5  Argus  Gr-ecda,  ger-u  airsid16,  don  irgail  sift.    Et  arna  thoiti/ft  sift  447 
les,  darala  in  trenfher  Tiphis  do  Grecaib  chuici,  -j  se  bar  eoch17, 
-j  rochuirset  co?nlond,  -j  tanic  andsi»  a  ara18  i  fiadnaisi  Thiphis 
.i.  Abas,  -j  rogon  co  hamnas  Ipcei/s.    Ipceus,  immorro,  trascrais, 
1  trenmarbais  na  firu  sin,  co  torchradar  les.    Is  andsiii  tarla 

3i2ocoftirac  cethrair19  ar  lar  in  chatha  .i.  dias  brathar  do  Tmhandaib 
.i.  Ion  -|  Dapnis,  -]  dias  brathar  do  Grecaib  .i.  Fares  -\  Abas,  446 
1  roba20  cho??dund  bagach  braithremail  sin  do  leith  dar  leth21, 
cein22  cor-thuitsead  in  dias  Tiaba?ic?a  sin  risi??  dis23  do  Grecaib. 
Et  o  rotuitsead  leo,  tucsad  aichni  cor  brathir  iad  ar  comdichracht 

3125  a  comraic  -]  ar  cosmaileacht24  a  ndelba,  -j  tanic  a  n-aicned  co  mor 
forro,  -j  ba  truag  leo  a  toiti??*  dia  lamaib.  452 

1  Eg.  rocroithastar  2  Eg.  7  tarraid  baegal  beinie  7  gona  ar  in  Grecach 

'sin  leth  3  Eg.  co-rop  leth  ele  tharraing  Menalca  4  Eg.  tharlaic 

5  Eg.  airsid  aghmhar  amainnsech  G  Eg.  Iadhsid  7  Eg.  e  de  8  Eg.  rouai 
9  Eg.  ac  oixlech  10  Eg.  Ageinius  u  Eg.  Pegius  12  Eg.  a  lam  des  o  gualawwi 
13  Eg.  claidem  14  Eg.  Aleamas...Grecaii7  sin.    Rocomraic  tra  Ipseus 

15  Eg.  7  Arcus  ,6  E.  airsig    Eg.  ger-b  airsidh  17  Eg.  7  se  ara  eoch 

18  Eg.  aru  19  Eg.  cet/fair  20  Eg.  Abass  7  Farass  7  ropo  21  Eg.  braithem- 
sin  do  leth  ar  leth         22  Eg.  cein  no        23  Eg.  lasan  dias         2i  Eg.  cosrnailius 

200 


THE  THEBAID 

terecl  and  shook  the  people  of  Menalcas  so  that  they  left  their  lord 
alone  behind  them  in  stress  of  battle.  There  he  waged  a  heroic 
conflict  against  Hypseus  for  a  long  time;  and  when  Hypseus 
had  seized  an  opportunity  of  wounding  that  Greek  at  one  side 
of  his  back,  it  was  by  the  other  side  that  Menalcas  drew  out  the 
spear ;  and  as  he  was  falling,  he  let  My  a  cast  of  it  at  Hypseus, 
and  wounded  him,  and  he  himself  died  forthwith.  And  after- 
wards a  prudent  Theban  veteran,  to  wit,  Amyntas,  let  fly  an 
arrow  cast  at  Iasus  son  of  Phaedimus,  a  Greek,  so  that  he  fell 
by  it.  There  fought  a  champion  of  Calydon,  to  wit,  Agreus, 
with  a  Theban  stalwart,  to  wit,  Phegeus,  and  each  of  them  was 
equally  slashing  the  other,  till  Agreus  dealt  Phegeus  a  blow, 
and  cut  off  his  right  arm  from  his  shoulder,  and  that  hero's  arm 
fell.  It  continued  moving  and  leaping  on  the  ground  with  the 
strong  sword  in  its  grasp.  And  when  Acoetes,  a  Greek,  saw 
that,  he  came  and  dealt  the  arm  a  mighty  blow  on  the  ground, 
and  wounded  it  greatly.  Then  Iphis,  a  Theban,  encountered 
ruthless  Acamas,  a  Greek,  and  the  Theban  fell  by  the  wounds 
of  that  Greek.  Again  also,  Hypseus  son  of  Asopus  encountered 
puissant  Argus,  a  Greek.  They  roughened  their  fight  and 
hardened  their  combat,  and  Greek  Argus  fell,  veteran  though 
he  was,  in  that  strife.  And  after  the  fall  of  that  man  by  Hypseus, 
the  champion  Iphis,  a  Greek,  and  mounted,  chanced  to  come  to 
him  and  they  joined  battle,  and  then  came  Iphis'  charioteer,  to 
wit,  Abas  into  Iphis'  presence,  and  wounded  Hypseus  severely. 
Hypseus,  moreover,  overthrew  and  starkly  slew  those  men,  so 
that  they  fell  by  him.  Then  happened  in  the  midst  of  the  battle 
a  combat  of  four,  to  wit,  two  Theban  brothers,  Ion  and  Daphnis, 
and  two  Greek  brothers,  Pheres  and  Abas,  and  that  was  a  war- 
like brotherly  encounter  of  side  against  side,  until  those  two 
Thebans  fell  by  the  two  Greeks.  And  when  they  had  fallen  by 
the  Greeks,  they  recognised  that  they  were  brothers  by  the 
keenness  of  their  combat  and  the  likeness  of  their  forms,  and 
the  nature  of  the  Greeks  was  greatly  moved  for  them,  and  they 
were  sorry  that  the  Thebans  had  fallen  by  their  hands. 
20 1 


E.  39a  49  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  222b  35 

Cid    tra    acht   ba    suaichinti    sarecha1    ssercland    isi??   chath  VIj,  ~ 
cheachtarda  si??,  -j  is  andsin  ratroscair2  (col.   /3),  7  rotimchill  456 
Emon  echtach  anrata  do  shil  calma   Chathim  gasrada  Grec, 

3i3ocomtis   buidni   buaidertha,    7    comtis    taircsenaich    techig3   re 
trethan   in   Tiabanda  sin  aca  tuargaiw.     Roi??dsaig,   immorro, 
Tid   talchar  togaidi   mac   rig1   na   Calidoine   sluagu   tenda  na  458 
Tiabanda  'na  aigid  si??,  coindis  dirmada5  dianscailti,  -j  co???tis 
c/?-?'thnaigthi  cowilaind,  7   cowitis  ailsedaig6  engnuma  da  eis. 

3135  Ba  he  tra  samail  na  desi  si??,  amal  norethidis7  da  buindi  diana  460 
dileand  a  slebtib  arda  amreidi,  co  tochlait,  7  co  timairgid  leo 
twrscara8  in  tabnan,  co  li??it  na  fanglean>?a  fo  ethib9  dib. 

Is   andsin   roerig   Idas   mac    Conceist  do  Ti&bandaib,  7   is  466 
amlaid  roerig   -j    aithleanda10    loisctheacha    lasa???na   'na   laira, 

3140  7  rodibriced11  ba  na12  sluagaib  iat,  co  raba  buaidirthi  gasraidi13 
Grec  leis,  7  mar  dabui  ban14  samla  sin,  tarla  Tid  mac  rig15  na 
Calidone  da  indsaigid,  -j  tuc  sadud16  setrech  sleigi  bar  in  fer17,  47° 
co  torchair  7  tend  a  dro???a  re  lar  7  a  aithindeada  urderga  air 
anuas18,  7  is  ed  roraid  Tid  ris :  "  Ni  loiscfea19  tra  loechraid  Lerna  472 

3145  ni   as    mo   .i.   na    Greic20,  acht   chena   coifigebthar21   tu    coma 
luaithred  lanmin  do22  chorp  ar«a  loscad  on[a]  hathindib23  toeb- 
de?-ga  raimarchrais24  fein."  Et  0  darigni-sium  sin,  imasas  fa  sluag25 
na  Tiabanda,  amal  tigir  croda  co??fadaig26  'ma27  cethraib  cowiimda,  474 
-j  torchair28  in  cuicer  rigmilead-sa  les  don  ruathar  si??  .i.  Caon 

3i5ocurita29,  -j   Polns  primechtach,  -j    Cromis   coscorach,  7   Elicon 
anglondach,  7  Taigis  trenchalma. 

Emon,  immorro,  nir-ba  lugu30  a  echta  in  airseda  isi?i31  ar  na  480 
sluagaib  Grec32,  -j  ni  tharaid  dil  a  fhergi  dib  re  lanailgi?is  a 
luathmarbtha33,  ger-ba  dluithi34  na  sluaig  aca  slaidi35,  7  ger-ua 
3155  calma  c?traid  chroda  Chalidóne36,  munter  talchar  Tid.    Rotholl 

1  Eg.  suaichanta  sarecha  2  Eg.  rotrascair  3  E.  tecig  4  Eg.  ri 

5  Eg.  dirrnanf/a  6  E.  ailsegaig    Eg.  ailsegha£#  7  Eg.  rorethfedis 

8  Eg.  tr«scartba  9  Eg.  co  linait  na  faingleannta  fo  eitibh  10  Eg.  aithginna 
11  Eg.  lamaibh  7  rodiubraicedft  12  E.  bana  na  Eg.  fo  na  13  E.  gasraigi 
14  Eg.  dobai  fon  ls  Eg.  ri  16  E.  sadug  Eg.  sadhiid/i  17  Eg.  for  an  fer  sin 
18  Eg.  aithinnadba  urderca  fair  anuauas  l9  Eg.  loiscfider  20  Eg.  is  mo 

.i.  Greic  21  Eg.  coingebhar  22  E.  da  23  Eg.  ona  tonntaibh 

24  Eg.  doimarchrais  25  Eg.  o  dorignedh  sin  innsaigh  fo  sluagaibh 

26  E.  confagaig  27  Eg.  fo  28  Eg.  torchratar  29  Eg.  curuta 

30  Eg.  nir-bo  lugba  31  Eg.  in  airsidb  sin  32  Eg.  Grecacha  33  Eg.  luatb- 
marbhta      34  Eg.  dluith      35  Eg  aca  sluigbi      36  Eg.  calma  crodba  Calidoine 

202 


THE  THEBAID 

Nay,  illustrious  and  mighty  were  noble  scions  in  that  fight 
on  both  sides.  And  there  puissant  warlike  Haemon  of  the  brave 
seed  of  Cadmus  overthrew  and  surrounded  Greek  soldiery  so 
that  they  became  confused  companies  and  exhausted  fugitives 
before  the  onrush  of  that  Theban  as  he  smote  them.  Resolute 
and  choice  Tydeus,  however,  son  of  the  king  of  Calydon,  attacked 
the  strong  hosts  of  the  Thebans  in  front  of  him,  so  that  they 
became  scattered  crowds,  shaken  with  fear  of  a  combat,  and  negli- 
gent of  prowess  in  consequence.  Now  this  was  the  likeness  of 
those  two,  as  if  two  swift  torrents  of  a  flood  rushed  from  lofty 
rugged  mountains,  so  that  the  plantations  of  the  earth  were  dug 
up  and  carried  away  by  them,  and  the  sloping  herd-covered 
glens  were  filled  with  them. 

Then  arose  Idas,  a  Theban,  son  of  Onchestos  [a  town],  and 
thus  arose  he  with  burning  flaming  torches  in  his  hand,  and  he 
kept  throwing  them  among  the  hosts,  so  that  the  Greek  soldiery 
were  perturbed  by  him,  and  as  he  was  like  that,  Tydeus  son  of 
the  king  of  Calydon,  chanced  to  come  to  him,  and  made  a  strong 
thrust  of  his  spear  at  the  man,  so  that  he  fell  with  the  breadth 
of  his  back  on  the  ground,  and  his  red  torches  above  him,  and 
this  is  what  Tydeus  said  to  him:  "No  more  shalt  thou  burn 
the  heroes  of  Lerna,"  to  wit,  the  Greeks.  "  But  indeed  thou 
shalt  be  held  till  thy  body  become  small  dust  after  it  is 
burned  by  the  red-sided  brands  that  thou  thyself  hast  carried." 
And  when  he  had  done  that,  he  turned  him  about  among  the 
host  of  the  Thebans,  like  a  cruel  furious  tiger  among  much 
cattle,  and  at  that  onrush  these  five  royal  soldiers  fell  by  him, 
to  wit,  heroic  Aon,  most  puissant  Pholus,  victorious  Chromis, 
Helicaon  of  famous  deeds,  and  strong  and  brave  Taigis  (sic). 

But  as  for  Haemon,  not  less  were  that  veteran's  deeds 
done  upon  the  Greek  hosts,  and  he  did  not  secure  from  them 
appeasement  of  his  rage  owing  to  his  importunate  desire  of 
quickly  killing  them,  though  thick  were  the  hosts  being  hewn 
down,  and  though  brave  were  the  valiant  heroes  of  Calydon, 
the  resolute  people  of  Tydeus.  That  Theban  champion,  to 
203 


E.  39h  37  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  223a  29 

1  rothanaig  in  trenfer  Tiabanoa  sin  iad  .i.  Emon  crechtach  mac  VIen" 
Crioin,  cein  no  co  tarla1  chuici  in  macaem  beoda  borrfadach  .i.  484 
Butis.    Robui  seic2  hnmorro  ac  tairmesc  na  trenf her  gan  teiched 
do  denam  re  nEniow.    Et  mar  dabui-sium  amlaicl  si??  ac  trengres- 

3160  acht  caich  dochum  in  chomluiwd,  tanic  Emon  chuici  gan  airignd3, 
co  tuc  builli  do  thuaig  truim  Tiabanda  do,  co  rodluig  -]  co 
rodianscail  a  chend  ar  do  air4.  Et  rochuir  Ipaiss  sacart  Apaill 
comrac  'na  diaid5  sin  ris,  -7  i  forcind  in  chomruic  dorochair-siwm6 
re  hEmon.    Et  arna  thuitim  leis,  rofobair  Polites  sacart  do  Baich  491 

3165  .i.  dea  inn  [fh]ina  (p.  40)  debaid  agmar  aicbel  ris,  -j  dorochair 
dono  in  fer  sin  do  laim  Emon  croda  cetna,  1  ger-ba  sacart  sin,  497 
nir-ba    sruitheada   a    n-aideada   re7    hEmon.     Et   rofoibredar8 
dias  aili  do  Ghrecaib  'na  diaid   sin   .i.   Hiperion9   -j   Damasws 
daigechtach,  -j  torc[h]radar  les-[s]iu?n  iad. 

3170      Cid  tra  acht  robo10  dith  ar  Grecaib  don  gleo  sin,  mene  beth  500 
Meneru[a],  bandei  in  gaiscid,  ac  imguin11  leo.    Et  robui  Ercoil 
ac  gabail  re  Tiahandaib,  uair  robo  dei  in  tan  sin  he.    Rochomraic 
iter  in  dei  sin12  ar  lar  in  chatha  .i.  iter  Ercoil13  -j  Menerba.    Is  ed 
roraid  Ercoil :  "  A  siur  inmain,"  ar  se,  "  a  Me?terba,  ca  hecendal  502 

3175  roimluaid  bid  aroen14  i  cend  aroili  isin  chath-sa  na  nGrec  -j  na 
Tiabanda?  Uair  rap  usa  limsa  tachur  re  m'  athair  uasal  re 
hloib,  ina  ritsu,  a  Me?zerua ;  uair  ba  mor  do  coscur  cjiathbuadach 
rucas-[s]a  tred  c/??(??iachta-su15.  Et  cetaigim  dit,  a  ingen,  masa 
thinden?/s  let,  in  Teib  do  thogail."    Rochetaig-s«i/?i  hnmorro  515 

3i8oandsiw,    -j   rocendsaich   Me»erba  o  briathraib  ailgenaib   Ercail,  516 
-j  ro[fh]acaib  in  cath  iarsi»,  -j  roi?/igaib  dono  Erccw'J  Emon  gan 
beth16  ac  fo?'tacht  do,  -\  roleicsead  coimdilsi  iter  na  cwadaib. 

Ba  hanmainditi17  tra  Emon  ac  airlech  na  nGrec  Erccn7  da  519 
[fhjacbail18  amlaid  sin,  1  roairig  Emon  Tiabanda  gan  airsideac/?i19 

3185 'na  urchuraib  -j  gan  bailci  na  buillib.  Roimpo  co  hathlom  do 
dechad20  asiw  chath.  Adchondairc21,im?norro,  mac  rig  na  Calidone 
Emon  ac  teched.    Tuc  urchur  n-i?ielldiuriuch22  chuici  cor-ben  int 

1  Eg.  no  co  tainic       2  Eg.  Rouai  sidhe       3  Eg.  airiugud       4  Eg.  ara  dó  air 
5  Eg.  na  dheoigh  6  Eg.  atorchair-sium  7  Eg.  sruitheta  a  n-aighedha  ri 

8  Eg.  roopcrttar     9  Eg.  sin  Emon  .i.  Iperion     10  Eg.  rouai     J1  Eg.  imluamain 
12  Eg.  rocowmicsit  na  dei  sin  13  Eg.  .i.  Ercot'i  14  Eg.  etrainn  araen 

15  Eg.  tre  do  chumacktaibh  16  Eg.  can  a  belli  17  Eg.  a)iuai/(/áti 

18  Eg.  facuail        10  E.  airsigeacfti         20  Eg.  do  dul         21  Eg.  O  'dc(h)onnairc 
22  Eg.  .direch 

204 


THE  THEBAID 

wit,  wound-dealing  Haemon,  son  of  Creon,  broke  through  and 
thinned  them,  till  the  lively  wrathful  youth,  to  wit,  Butes 
chanced  to  meet  him.  He,  however,  was  restraining  the 
champions  from  taking  to  flight  before  Haemon.  And  as  he 
was  thus  engaged  in  urging  everyone  to  the  combat,  Haemon 
approached  him  unperceived,  dealt  him  a  blow  with  a  heavy 
Theban  axe,  and  split  and  swiftly  cleft  his  head  in  twain.  And 
thereafter  Hypanis  priest  of  Apollo  forced  an  encounter  with 
him,  and  at  the  end  of  that  encounter  he  fell  before  Haemon. 
And  after  his  fall  by  him,  Polites,  priest  of  Bacchus,  god  of  wine, 
essayed  a  warlike  dangerous  strife  with  him,  and  that  man  also 
fell  by  the  hand  of  the  same  bloody  Haemon  ;  and  priest  though 
he  was,  their  violent  deaths  were  not  venerable  in  the  eyes  of 
Haemon.  And  after  that  two  other  Greeks  attacked  him,  to  wit, 
Hyperenor  and  well-approved  Damasus,  and  they  fell  by  him. 

In  sooth  the  Greeks  had  suffered  loss  from  that  conflict,  had 
not  Minerva,  goddess  of  valour,  been  fighting  along  with  them. 
And  Hercules  was  favouring  the  Thebans,  for  he  was  a  god  at 
that  time.  There  was  an  encounter  between  those  gods,  Hercules 
and  Minerva,  in  the  midst  of  the  battle.  This  is  what  Hercules 
said:  "Beloved  sister,  Minerva,"  said  he,  "what  dire  fate  has 
impelled  us  with  one  consent  to  oppose  one  another  in  this  war 
of  Greeks  and  Thebans  ?  For  it  were  easier  for  me  to  conflict 
with  my  noble  father  Jove  than  with  thee,  O  Minerva ;  for  much 
battle- victorious  triumph  have  I  achieved  through  thy  power. 
And  I  allow  thee,  O  maiden,  if  thou  hast  a  desire,  to  sack 
Thebes."  Then,  however,  he  bade  farewell.  And  Minerva  grew 
mild  at  Hercules'  gentle  words,  and  thereafter  she  left  the  battle ; 
and  Hercules  also  avoided  Haemon,  refraining  from  assisting 
him.    And  they  left  equal  opportunity  between  the  heroes. 

Now  Haemon  was  weakened  in  slaughtering  the  Greeks, 
that  Hercules  should  leave  him  thus ;  and  Theban  Haemon 
perceived  that  there  was  no  prowess  in  his  casts  and  no  strength 
in  his  blows.  He  turned  quickly  to  flee  out  of  the  battle.  But 
the  son  of  the  king  of  Calydon  saw  Haemon  fleeing.  He  de- 
livered a  well -aimed  cast  straight  at  him,  so  that  the  spear 
205 


E.  4oa  30  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  2231 


53 


[s]leg  iter  bili1  i??  sceith  -]  a  cathbarr  ina  munel ;  -j  ger-ba  beo™6^- 
'na  diaid,  robo  cro?ncend  caichi2,  -j  ni  rosamail  silliud  dara  eis 

3190  ar  gnuis  in  gaiscedaig  rogon3  he,  uair  nir-ba  tualaing  tachair 
ris,  acht  roela4  -j  rofacaib  in  cath  arsi??. 

Asa  haithli  sin  dorala  taisech  tuaithi  do  Tiabandaib  .i.  Protiuis  536 
a  ai?im,  d'  indsaigid   in   Chaladonda  cetna.    Seoilaic?-sea»i5  co 
setreach  in  sleig  da  indsaigid  co  romarb  Tid  in  mik'd  cosi??  543 

3195  midach  bui  fae  don  urchur  sin.    Et  arsin  roopair  Corebits  croda 
do  Thiabandai6  gleo  garb  arna  Grecaib6,  -j  ba  sacart  sruitheata7  548 
dona  Muisib  .i.  do  bandeib8  in  bindiw-sa  in  fer  si??.    Et  ger-ba 
sacart  tra,  nir-ba  sseglach  ;  uair  fuair  a  airlech  do  lai???.  im'c  [rig]9 
na  Calidone. 

3200      Roerich  'na  diaid  sin  Aitis  oc  ergnomach  do  Thi&handaib ;  554 
1  ar  gairi10  in  cleamnasa,  roobair  in  gilla  sin  calma  do  denum. 
Uair  is  amlaid  robui  ar  naidm  Ismen  do  .i.  derfiur  do  Ethiocles 
do  rig  (col.  /3)  na  Tebhi".    Et  is  amlaid  robui  in  gilla  sin  -j  lene 
coem  corcorglan  immi18.     Et  ba  cwradaigthi  carbat  •]  cathbarr 

3205  inn  [fh]ir  sin  d'  or  alai??d  ilecairthi  -j  saigdi13  ailli  orda  'na  laim. 
Et  iraasa3-siui?i14  fa  na15  sluagaib  ban  samla  si??,  &mal  leo^ian  572 
londmer  ua  thretaib  teicheacha  in  talman.    Et  as  e  ni  doroigne 
Aitis.    Robui  co  bseth  raear  borrfadach  ac  gairm16  mic  rig  na 
Calido??e  chuici  do  cnomruc  -j  da  c/?o???lond  ris.    O  'tchualaig  Tid 

3210 sin,  sillis  fair,  -j  faiphtis  gen  gaire  na  agaid17,  -j  raidis  ris:  "Is  582 
comdi??gna  cuici18,  a  gilla,"  ar  se,  "  uair  is  mor  a[m]  inaisi19  dit 
mih'd  mar  misi  dod  marbad."    Et  is  amlaid20  roraid-siu???  si?i,  584 
roleic  a  armu21  uili  ar  lar  cenmotha  birán  bunsaigi22  baisi  bui  'na 
Laim,  uair  nir  miad  leis  air/??-  croda  chura[da]23  do  imirt  ar  in 

3215  gilla  oc24  naidenta  sin,  -j  tuc  urchar  di  si?/25  do  co  roben  in  eslind 
a  chuirp,  -|  co  torchair  fo  chetoir.  Et  ger-ba  dathchain  der- 
scai[g]thech26  airm  -j  etgud  inn  [fhjir  sin,  nir  miad  1  nir  inaisi 
re  mac  rig  na  Calidone  a  fodbugud  irapu  sin.    Et  ar  na  thoitim 

1  Eg.  bile  2  Eg.  cromcendach  coiehe  3  Eg.  rusgon  4  Eg.  roelo  5  Eg.  seo- 
laidh-sium  E.  seoilaiw-sea»i  6  Eg.  risna  G.  7  Eg.  sruithe  8  Eg.  bainndee 
9  Eg.  ri  )0  Eg.  goire  u  Eg.  ar  tabairt  Isnien  .i.  derbhsiur  d'  E.  do  ri 

na  Teue         12  Eg.  mine  13  Eg.  soigdi  14  Eg.  Innsaig         15  Eg.  fo  na 

16  Eg.  mear  om. ...goirm  17  Eg.  dorinne  faitfed  gaire. ..E.  'na  agaig 

18  Eg.  coimdingna  cuge  19  Eg.  in  maissi  20  Eg.  dot. ..Is  amlaidh 

21  Eg.  roleic  7  roraid-sium  sin  roleic  a  airm  —  E.  bunsaidi  Eg.  bxmnsaigi  v 
baisi  um.  23  Eg.  churata  2I  Eg.  n-«5g  25  Eg.  desidhen  26  Eg.  dathcoem 
derscatí/í/ífacli 

206 


THE  THEBAI]) 

struck  him  in  the  neck  between  the  rim  of  the  shield  and  his 
helmet ;  and  though  he  lived  afterwards,  he  was  always  wry- 
headed  ;  and  he  did  not  simulate  looking  behind  him  on  the 
face  of  the  hero  who  had  wounded  him,  for  he  was  unable  to 
fight  him,  but  he  crept  away,  and  left  the  battle  thereupon. 

After  that  a  chief  of  a  Theban  tribe,  to  wit,  Prothous  his 
name,  chanced  to  approach  the  same  Calydonian.  Tydeus  strongly 
■directs  the  spear  towards  him,  and  by  that  cast  killed  the  soldier 
and  the  stallion  that  was  under  him.  And  thereupon  Corymbus, 
a  valiant  Theban,  menaced  the  Greeks  with  a  rough  contest, 
and  that  man  was  a  venerable  priest  of  the  Muses,  to  wit,  the 
goddesses  of  melody.  And  yet,  priest  though  he  was,  he  was 
not  long-lived ;  for  he  was  slaughtered  by  the  hand  of  the  son 
of  the  king  of  Calydon. 

After  that  Atys,  a  young  puissant  Theban,  arose,  and  after 
jeering  at  their  relationship  that  man  threatened  to  do  bravely. 
For  he  stood  thus,  espoused  to  him  was  Ismene,  to  wit,  a  sister 
of  Eteocles,  kyig  of  Thebes.  And  thus  was  that  lad  with  a  fair 
bright-purple  tunic  about  him.  And  that  man's  chariot  and 
helmet  were  adorned  with  splendid  gold  much  inlaid,  and 
beautiful  golden  arrows  in  his  hand.  And  he  turned  himself 
about  upon  the  hosts  in  that  guise,  like  a  raging  mad  lion  upon 
the  fleeing  flocks  of  the  earth.  And  this  is  the  thing  Atys  did. 
He  was  foolishly,  madly,  angrily  challenging  the  son  of  the  king 
of  Calydon  to  meet  him  and  fight  a  duel  with  him.  When 
Tydeus  heard  that  he  glanced  at  him,  and  laughed  a  derisive 
jeer  in  his  face,  and  said  to  him :  "  It  is  much  that  thou  dost 
ask,  O  lad,"  quoth  he  ;  "  for  great  is  the  distinction  for  thee  that 
a  soldier  like  me  should  slay  thee."  And  as  he  said  that,  he 
dropped  all  his  weapons  on  the  ground  except  a  little  spit  of  a 
toy  javelin  that  was  in  his  hand,  for  he  did  not  deign  to  employ 
cruel  heroic  weapons  upon  that  young  childish  lad,  and  he 
delivered  a  cast  thereof  at  him  so  that  it  struck  the  weak  spot 
of  his  body,  and  he  fell  at  once.  And  though  that  man's  weapons 
and  clothing  were  beautiful  in  colour  and  distinguished,  the  son 
of  the  king  of  Calydon  thought  it  undignified  and  dishonourable 
to  strip  him  of  those.  And  on  his  falling  by  him,  he  turned 
207 


E.  4ob  23  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  224b  2 

sin  leis,  'masoe  ba  sluagaib1  na  Tiabanda.    Rosoiged2  na  trenu  v^' 

3220-1  na  taiseachu,  -j  ni  beanad  re  drongaib  ndsesscwrsluaig  na  re  592 
drochlsechaib  coma  dithfine3  ar  saerclandaib  togaidi  na  Tiabanda 
don  tres  [s]in4  no  cor-erig  Menidceins  do  Thiabandato,  -j  cor-g?'es 
na  sluagu,  -j  is  ed  roraid  :  "  A  truagu,  a  Tiabanda5,"  ar  se,  "  nach  600 
nar  daib  cen  athais6  engnnmach  do  digail  ar  na  Grecaib?"    Tuc 

3225  tra  in   g?-esacht  sin   brig  -j   baraind  n-adbail  i   trenferaib  na  605 
Tiabanda  co  rocnomdluthaigsed7  in  chathirgal  i  cend  aroili. 

Et  in  tan  robadar-szon  amlaid  sin,  is  and  darala  da  ingin 
Eidip    co    hanband    im[sh]ni?nach    a[c]   co?»rad   re   'roili    thall  607 
i  cathraig8  na  Tebi,-]ba  hadbul  a  n-imsni/n  im  dail9  a  mbraithrech, 

3230  uair  na10  fedadar  cia  dib  bud  coscrach  don  chur  sin,  -]  is  andsi?i  622 
roraid  Ismine  :  "  Is  truag  limsa,"  ar  si,  "  a  shim-  inmain,  comorad 
in  chatha-sa  iter  mo  braithrib,  -j  adchondarc  asliugi,"  ar  si11,  633 
"  fes  dam  fein  re  hAithis12  calma  ciirata,  -]  ni  fail  derbairdi  na 
figrad13  firuilc  nach  facca-sa  andsin." 

3235      Et    i/nmar   dabadhar-soni    ac    in    co/nrad    sin,   adchondcadar  636 
buidin  moir  cucu  isin  cathraig.    Et  is  amlaid  rabadar  -j  corp 
lethmarb  leadairthi  accu  i  crislach  a  sceith,  -j  is  e  bui  andsiit  638 
Athais14, 1  adchondairc15  Iochasta  he,  *]  rogairm  a  hiiigena  chuci, 
-j  doriachtadar  uili  uasa  cind,  -]  robadar  (p.  41)  ac  saithi?i   a 

324omedar  -]  a  ngloir  ar  in  figilla,  -j  nir-ba  tualaiwg-siuiw  tra 
a  n-acallaim  acht  robui  'ca  fechud16,  cei/i  no  cor-elath  uad  in 
beccan  bethad  robui  fa  brwindib17. 

Cen  tra  robadar  na  mna  thall  isi?i  chathraig  ar  na  himraitib 
sin,  rothen??sad  cwraid  croda  in  catha  cechtarda  amuich  i  cend  655 

3245  aroili,  amai  na18  comraictis  riam  remi  si».  Ba  he  tresi  -j  ten/d 
roimir  each  bar19  a  cheli  dib  isinn  uair  sin,  co  roerig  eturru  in 
bé20  néit  badba  buaidirthi  .i.  Enio21,  siur  Mairt  .i.  dei  in  chatha. 
Cid  tra  acltt  ba  glondmer  gaiscedaig22  Grec  isinn  irgail  sin,  uair 
ba  sarechtach  saigdi  in  rig  .i.  Parthanapetis,  -|   ba   hathluma  660 

325oallata  echrada  Ipamedon  ac  toir[n]iu?»23  na  Tiabanda,  *]  bad 

1  Eg.  innsaig  fo  na  sluagaib  sin  2  Eg.  Rosoithed  3  Eg.  eo;«(7  dith  fine 
4  Eg.  an  tres  sin  5  Eg.  truaga  Tiabanda  6  Eg.  can  aitis  7  Eg.  cor-rocoim- 
lecset  7  cor-rocomdluidhai^sit  8  Eg.  tall  a  cathraig  9  Eg.  im  dail 

10  Eg.  nach  u  E.  ar  se  12  Eg.  feis... Aitis  13  E.  fidrad  14  Eg.  7  is  e  rouai 
and  sin  .i.  Aiteis  15  Eg.  O  'dconndairc  16  Eg.  'ga  fegain  17  Eg.  cor-ela 
uadha  an  becan  betha  rouai  fo  bruinne  18  Eg.  nach  19  Eg.  each  ara 

20  Eg.  aturru  an  ben  21  Eg.  Einio         22  Eg.  g&iecedaig         ~3  Eg.  toirnem 

208 


THE  THEBAID 

himself  about  upon  the  hosts  of  the  Thebans.  He  used  to 
attack  the  strong  and  the  chiefs,  and  not  to  touch  the  crowds 
of  common  soldiers  or  inferior  heroes,  so  that  from  that  fight 
a  loss  of  kin  resulted  to  the  chosen  nobles  of  the  Thebans, 
till  Menoeceus,  a  Theban,  arose,  and  urged  the  hosts,  and  this 
is  what  he  said :  "  Wretched  Thebans,"  said  he,  "  are  ye  not 
ashamed  not  to  avenge  upon  the  Greeks  an  active  insult  ? "  Now 
that  incitement  produced  energy  and  great  anger  in  the  Theban 
champions,  so  that  they  thronged  the  battle-conflict  ahead  of  one 
another. 

And  whilst  they  were  thus,  it  chanced  then  that  the  two 
daughters  of  Oedipus  were  weakly  and  very  anxiously  conversing 
with  one  another  over  in  the  city  of  Thebes,  and  intense  was 
their  anxiety  as  to  their  brothers ;  for  they  did  not  know  which 
of  them  might  be  victorious  at  that  crisis.  And  then  Ismene 
said:  "I  am  sad,"  quoth  she,  "beloved  sister,  at  the  intensify- 
ing of  this  battle  between  my  brothers.  And  I  have  seen  a 
vision,"  said  she,  "that  I  should  myself  be  married  to  brave 
and  heroic  Atys,  and  there  exists  no  portent  or  premonition  of 
dire  evil  that  I  have  not  seen  therein." 

And  as  they  were  engaged  in  that  conversation,  they  saw  a 
great  company  approaching  them  in  the  city.  And  thus  were 
they  with  a  half-dead  mangled  body  among  them  in  the  hollow 
of  his  shield,  and  he  that  lay  there  was  Atys,  and  Jocasta  saw 
him,  and  called  her  daughters  unto  her,  and  they  all  came  and 
stood  over  him,  and  they  were  directing  their  exclamations  and 
their  voices  towards  the  lad ;  and  for  all  that  he  was  unable  to 
address  them,  but  continued  to  gaze  at  them,  till  the  little  life 
that  was  in  his  breast  escaped  away. 

Now  while  the  women  over  in  the  city  were  engaged  in  those 
deliberations,  the  brave  heroes  of  the  battle  on  both  sides  pressed 
forth  against  one  another  as  if  they  had  never  encountered  before 
that.  Such  was  the  strength  and  pressure  that  each  of  them 
exerted  on  the  other  at  that  time  that  between  them  arose  the 
warlike  disturbing  wife  of  Néid,  to  wit,  Enyo,  sister  of  Mars, 
the  god  of  war.  Yea,  the  Greek  champions  were  wildly  reckless 
in  that  strife,  for  deadly  were  the  arrows  of  the  king,  to  wit, 
Parthenopaeus ;  and  active  and  famous  were  the  horses  of  Hippo- 
c.  209  14 


E.  4ia  15  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  225a  7 

sodanaich1  sargala  -j  sargona  slega  Capanewis.    Ger-ua  linmara  VIII" 
gaiscedaig2  G?*ec  andsin  tra  -]  ger-ba  ili3  a  n-ec/iia,  rodearscaich  661 
dib  uile  in  tren[fer]4  tairpthech  tairisi  talchar  .i.  Tid  mac  rig 
na  Cailidone.    Et  rogob  robur  roecla5  a  bidbadu  reimi  co  na6 

3255f£eltais  fosugud  ar  a  chind,  acid  mad  techead  tindneasnach7  ar 
gach  leath  reimi.    Et  'otchondairc-sium  iad  ban8  samla  sin,  is  664 
ed  roraid  riu  :  "  Na  teiched  itir,  a  Tmbanda,  acht  as  cora  daib 
a  digail  orumsa9  in  coica  curad  romarbiis  ieacht  aili10  uaib  -]  na 
hilmili[d]  rothoitsead  aniu  dom  laim."     Et  in  am  robui-sium 

3260 'ga  rad11    sin,  adchondairc  uad12   taidlech   suaichnid  sohisglan  674 
chathbarr  Ethioclm,  ri  na   Tiabemda13,  isi?i  cath.     Is  andsiw 
immorro  roboccbertaich-siu?>i  in  sleig  searbsroi??   sarechtaich, 
-]  tuc14  ro  n-urchair  uada  di  ar  amus  Ethioclm.    Et  robad  scith 
lim   scur  don   chathug/id    si/i,    mani15   thairmiscdis  na  dei   in 

3265  n-urchur  co  rob  ed  robea?i  in  n-araid  Ethioclm  .i.  Irlegias  co  688 
r»s-facaib  gan  an???ai».    Et  o  'tchon?iaic-sium  si??,  roimir  coma16 
chlaidib  ar  na  cathaib  ac  rochtai?*  Ethioclm,  cein  no  go  tucsad 
trentaisich   tenda17  na   Tiabonrfa   fidba   aithger   urnocht18   da  691 
n-armaib  i  timchell  in  airdrig,  -j   co  rucsad  leo  ar  culu  asirc 

3270  cath  amach  he  ar  imgabail  Tid.     Et  gid  ead  nir-thairmisc  a 
trengal-sium  sin  ac  dithugi/d19  na  sluag,  no  co  tore/? radar  na 
taisich-sea  da  laim  .i.  Toas  tomaithmech,-)  Deilochus  dasachtach,  696 
1  Cloniws  coscorach,  -\  Ipatas  aini»deach.    Et  is  e  ni  donid20  Tid 
andsin  mar  damarbad  in  curaid,  rodibraiced  a  chend  7  a  chath- 

3275  barr  uad  i  n-oenfeacht  uan  cath.    Et  as  andsi/i  rogabad  cmnung 
conaire  ar  lar  in  catha  ac  slaigi  na  sluag  ar  Tit,  co  na  fedad 
imluad  n-i?ntheachta21  risna  cladaib  comarda  do  chorpaib  cura,d  700 
(col.  /3)  ar  na  cruadleadrad  -j  re  fadbaib22  fuilidi  na  trenfer  ac 
toitim23  'na  timchell  da  gach  leth.    Et  rochowiadsad  andsi/i  imi24 

3280  do  gach  leith  -j  do  each  thaib  trenfir  teima  talchara  na  Tiiihanda, 
-j  rothelcset25  airm  ecsa?>ila  imda  as  each  aird  da  i??dsaigid,  cor-ba 

1  Eg.  7  ua  sodhaiKu/i  2  Eg.  gasr«<//ia  3  Eg.  7  ger-uot  ile 

1  Eg.  an  trenfer  5  Eg.  rabarta  rokedai  6  Eg.  roime  co  nach 

'  Eg.  tinttewasnac//         8  Eg.  ion         9  Eg.  formsa         10  Eg.  ele         «  Eg.  int 
am  rouai-sium  aca  rada  12  Eg.  uadha  13  E.  suaichnig...Eg.  ri  na  Teue 

14  Eg.  rouai  ac  bocbertadh  a  úeigh  7  tuc  15  Eg.  mi/ia  16  Eg.  comach 

17  Eg.  toisigh  trena  18  Eg.  fidhuadha  aithgera  urnochta  19  Eg.  a  tren- 

gabaiZ-siuw  sul  do  beth  ac  ditlmgud      M  Eg.  Tous...doni      21  Eg.  co  nach...na 
irntecht    22  Eg.  faduaibh     23  Eg.  a  toitim    24  E.  imi  Eg.  uime     2D  Eg.  noteilcdis 
2IO 


THE  THEBAID 

medon  in  pulling  down  the  Thebans,  and  prosperous  were  the 
feats  of  valour  and  violent  wounds  of  the  spears  of  Capaneus. 
Though  Greek  heroes  were  indeed  numerous  there,  and  their 
feats  many,  the  strong,  bold,  steadfast,  resolute  man,  to  wit, 
Tydeus,  son  of  the  king  of  Calydon,  surpassed  them  all.  And  a 
panic  of  great  fear  seized  his  enemies  before  him,  so  that  they 
could  make  no  stand  against  him  but  only  a  hasty  flight  in 
every  direction  before  him.  And  when  he  saw  them  in  that 
guise,  this  is  what  he  said  to  them :  "  Do  not  flee  at  all,  O 
Thebans,  seeing  it  is  more  proper  for  you  to  avenge  on  me  the 
fifty  heroes  of 'you  I  slew  on  another  occasion,  and  the  many 
soldiers  that  fell  to-day  by  my  hand."  And  whilst  he  was  saying 
that,  he  saw  away  in  the  battle  the  conspicuous  pure-bright 
shimmer  of  the  helmet  of  Eteocles,  king  of  the  Thebans.  Then, 
however,  he  shook  and  brandished  the  bitter-nosed  lethal  spear, 
and  discharged  a  throw  of  a  cast  of  it  at  Eteocles.  And  I  should 
have  reluctantly  to  cease  from  that  war,  had  not  the  gods  checked 
the  cast  in  order  that  it  might  be  so  that  it  struck  Eteocles' 
chariot-fighter,  to  wit,  Phlegyas,  and  left  him  lifeless.  And  when 
Tydeus  saw  that,  he  plied  a  sword-smiting  upon  the  battalions 
while  making  for  Eteocles,  till  the  strong  and  mighty  chiefs  of 
the  Thebans  made  a  very  sharp  naked  hedge-bill  of  their  arms 
round  about  the  high-king,  and  brought  him  back  with  them 
away  out  of  the  battle  in  order  to  avoid  Tydeus.  And  yet,  that 
did  not  restrain  his  mighty  valour  in  destroying  the  hosts,  till 
these  heroes  fell  by  his  hand,  to  wit,  menacing  Thoas,  mad 
Deilochus,  triumphant  Clonius,  and  angry  Hippotades.  And 
this  is  the  thing  which  Tydeus  then  used  to  do,  as  he  slew  a 
hero  he  used  to  hurl  his  head  and  his  helmet  at  once  away 
through  the  battle.  And  there  he  used  to  select  a  narrow  part 
of  a  road  in  the  midst  of  the  battle,  the  hosts  hewing  at  him, 
till  he  was  unable  to  effect  a  movement  owing  to  the  very 
high  ramparts  of  heroes'  bodies  cruelly  mangled,  and  owing  to 
the  bloody  spoils  of  the  champions  falling  around  him  on  every 
side.  And  there  strong  resolute  champions  of  the  Thebans  closed 
around  him  from  every  quarter  and  on  every  side,  and  threw 
many  diverse  weapons  at  him  from  every  direction,  so  that  his 
211  14—2 


E.  4ib  6  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  225b  10 

coill  comdluith  do  slegaib  c?vtaidi    coraclanda  a  sciath    mor1  ^n' 
mileata  in  tan  rocrathad2  uad.     Nir-ba  tarba  dono  cathbarr  do 
china  in  cn?-ad3  sin  risna  cairrgib  crwaidi  com&mis  rothelgtis  na 

3285  Tiahanda  do  as  each  aird,  cor-ba  comderg  do  chru  a  chind. 
Nir-bo  din  dono1  luirech  don  lech  sin  re  himad  na  saeigid5 
srengluath  ac  dul  trempi,  comdis  riathair  ruamanrcda  ucht 
-j  taeib6  in  trenmiled  sin  ar  na  tollad.  Et  in  silliud  rosill  secha 
ar  na  sluagaib,   atchondairc    Menerba,  bandei    in   gaisa'd7,   ac 

329odingbail  neich  dona  harmaib  si/?  de.  Ba  fo?~tacht  ■]  ba  forithin8 
mor  leis-[s]inm  sin. 

Acht  ceana  nir-ba9  din  ar  scis  do10,  uair  roseol  chuici  tresi/i  716 
cath  sleg  crandremarc?-o[f  hjairsiúg  sech  bili  in  sceith  [cor-ben  Eg.] 
i  n-ucht  in  airseda  sin  .i.  mic  rig11  na  C&iidone,  co  roscailt12  7  co 

3295  roscail  a  cridi  'na  chliab,  -j  ni  fes  dono  cia  thuc  in  n-urchar13  sin 
re  himad  na  n-ar?n  -j  re  dins  int  [sjluaig,  cein  no  cor-sill  uad14  int 
aiiglond  -j  int  airsid  Tith  cge  da15  danic  chuici  int  [s]leg,  -j  co 
tard  aichni16  i  tiug  int  shluaig  ar  inte17  rus-teile  .i.  Menilipws  718 
mac  Astacis.    Et  o  thuc  aichni18  air  uada,  rogab  in  sleig  a  llaim19 

3300  in  fhir  ba  nessa  do  .i.  Opleiws  do  G?-ecaib,  7  tuc  urchar  fertsech 
ieramail  uad,  ger-b  anband  robui20,  co  tarla  do  Menelepus  trena21 
cliab  7  tre  chraidi. 

Is  andsin  roindsaigset  Greic22  inn  oenfecht  dochum  Thid, 
1  rucsad  leo  he  do  lethtaib  in  chatha,  -j  rossaidsed  da  sciath  731 

3305  comdai?igen23  corcarda  imi  andsin  .i.  sciath  do  gach  leith  do24. 
Et  is  ed  [so  Eg.]  roraidsed  ris,  co  ternobad25  don  guin  sin.  Et 
cuma,26  roraidsed  sin  -7  robadar  ac  toirrsi  trnim  -]  ac  domenmaira 
moir.  Tid,  immorro,  mac  rig  cuanda  Cahdone,  roairig  fen  airdena 
bais  ac  tiachtain27  chuici,  -j  is  ed  roraid: "  Airchisid28  di?n,  a  Green,"  735 

3310 ar  se,  "-j  ni  m'  idnocol  có  m'  atharda  na  m'  adnocol  sirim  oraib29, 

1  Eg.  moir  -  Eg.  rocroitherf  3  E.  tarua  no  Eg.  Nir-uo  tarua  cathbarr 
do  cend  an  curaidh  4  Eg.  din  áono  5  Eg.  soighet  6  Eg.  trernit...taebh 
7  Eg.  a/i  ghaiseid  8  Eg.  furtacht  7  ua  foridhitin  9  Eg.  Acht  ón  nir-uo 

10  Eg.  scis  dosan  n  Eg.  mic  ri  12  Eg.  roscoilt  13  Eg.  ant  urchur 

14  Eg.  an  deghsluaigh  cein  no  cor-shill  uada  15  Eg.  cá  caí  16  Eg.  aithne 
17  Eg.  ar  inti  18  Eg.  7  mar  tuc  aithne  19  Eg.  ant  shleg  a  laim  20  Eg.  ger-uo 
hanfond  rouai  21  Eg.  7  trena  22  Eg.  Grecaigh  23  Eg.  comdaingne 

24  Eg.  do  each  taebh  dé  2S  Eg.  ternamad  26  Eg.  7  is  coma  27  Eg.  ro- 
fhairich  airgena  baeghlacha  bais  ac  rochtain  28  Eg.  aircisigh    E.  airchisig 

29  Eg.  ni  he  m'  adnacal  iaraim  oraib 

212 


THE  THEBAID 

great  warlike  shield  was  a  dense  wood  of  hard  spears  planted 
together,  when  he  used  to  shake  them  off.  A  helmet  for  that 
hero's  head  was  no  advantage  against  the  hard  well-aimed  stones 
which  the  Thebans  continued  to  throw  at  him  from  every  quarter, 
till  he  was  crimson  with  the  gore  of  his  head.  Again,  mail  was 
no  protection  for  that  hero  against  the  multitude  of  arrows  swift 
from  the  string  going  through  it,  so  that  the  pierced  breast  and 
sides  of  that  strong  soldier  became  red  torrents.  And  in  the 
glance  which  he  glanced  past  him  at  the  hosts,  he  saw  Minerva, 
the  goddess  of  wisdom,  warding  off  some  of  those  weapons  from 
him.    That,  he  thought,  was  a  great  aid  and  help. 

But  yet  it  was  no  protection  for  him  against  disaster,  for  a 
thick-shafted  wide-socketed  spear  coursed  through  the  battle 
unto  him,  past  the  edge  of  his  shield,  and  struck  mto.  the 
breast  of  that  veteran,  to  wit,  the  son  of  the  king  of  Calydon, 
so  that  it  split  and  dissolved  his  heart  in  his  breast ;  and  also 
it  was  not  known  who  had  made  that  cast,  owing  to  the 
multitude  of  the  weapons  and  the  density  of  the  host,  till  the 
puissant  man  and  veteran,  Tydeus,  glanced  the  way  whence  the 
spear  had  come  to  him,  and  he  recognised  in  the  thick  of  the 
host  the  man  who  had  thrown  it,  to  wit,  Melanippus,  son  of 
Astacis.  And  when  he  had  recognised  him  in  the  distance,  he 
took  the  spear  from  the  hand  of  the  man  who  was  next  himself, 
to  wit,  Hopleus,  a  Greek;  and  he  delivered  a  valorous  manly 
cast,  weak  though  he  was,  so  that  it  passed  to  Melanippus, 
through  his  chest  and  through  his  heart. 

Then  the  Greeks  at  once  approached  Tydeus,  and  brought 
him  with  them  to  one  side  of  the  battle,  and  they  placed  two 
very  strong  purple  shields  about  him  there,  to  wit,  on  each  side 
of  him  a  shield.  And  this  is  what  they  said  to  him,  that  he 
would  recover  from  that  wound.  And  at  the  same  time  that 
they  said  that,  they  were  in  heavy  sorrow  and  great  despondency. 
But  Tydeus,  son  of  the  comely  king  of  Calydon,  himself  per- 
ceived the  symptoms  of  death  approaching  him,  and  this  is 
what  he  said :  "  Have  compassion  on  me,  O  Greeks,"  said  he, 
"  and  it  is  not  my  restoration  to  my  fatherland  or  my  burial 
213 


E.  4ib  40  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  226^ 


uair  is  miscais  inn  anoissi 


lim  anoissi  i?i  corp  aprisc  irchradach-sa  i  fuilim.  VI^ ' 
Acht  sirim1  oraib  cend  Menelipm's  do  thobairt  cucum,  uair  adar  739 
lim  rotoirned2  a  nert  don  urchur  incus  do.    Et,  a  rigrad  Grec," 
ar  se,  "  tabraid  dam   in  n-aiscid  si?i  uaib.     Et  caidi,"  ar  se, 

3315  "Ipomedon  anrata,  7  caidi  Partanopews  pn'mechtach  ?  Tabraid 
in  Grecda  glormer  CapaneííS3.  Tabraid  uaib  dam,  a  ocu,  cend 
in  churad4  rom-chrechtnaig." 

Et  o  'tchualaich-sw??i  sin,  roerig  Capanei/s  i  remthi/s  re  each  746 
co  hairm  i  rraibi  Menelipws;  -|  o  ranic,  rothocaib  leis  he  os  a 

3320  gualaircd  (p.  42)  cli  chomnert,  no  cor-chuir  urchar  uad  de5  i 
fiadnaisi  Thid.  O  'tchonnaic  immorro  Tid  andsin  Menelipws  re 
fuineachtaib  bais  7  i  ??n-airdeanaib  eca6,  is  ed  roraid :  "  Tabraid 
a  chend  in  churad  i  comfochraib  dam,"  ar  se.  Et  o  thucad,  robui 
seal  'ga  fhegad7  co  hainindech,  7  is  comairli  darigni,  rotairi??d  air, 

3325  -j  rogob  'ga  chacnam  7  'ca  cruadtescad8  andsin  cind  Meneliptm. 
Et  a/itan  robui-sium  ainlaid  sin,  is  and  tainic  Menerba  .i.  bandei 
in  gaiscid9,  0  Ioib,  mac  Saduirn,  -j  is  ime  dochuaid10  da  indsaigid 
d'  iarraid  fortachta  ar  Thid  isin  cath  ;  -j  o  nach  tucad  di,  rochun- 
dig11  ar  Ioib  dei  do  denam  do  Thid.    Cuic  rig  dec  do  Thiabandaib, 

3330  is  ed  romarb  Tid  isin  lo  si??  ar  galaib  oenf hir12.    Et  tucad  disi 
sin,  -j  tanic  dochwn  Thid,  -]  'ca  aisci/113  di,  rogob  aduath  -\  ecla 
mor  hi  remi.     Adchondairc14  he  ac  ithi  chiwd  Mene\i\)uis,  -j  o 
raerigedar  nathracha  garba  gaisedacha  na  Gorgoni  'ma  c^end  762 
na  bandei15  .i.  Menerba,  roimpa,  -j  roteich  o  Thid,  7  rofhacaib 

3335  ban  sa?wla  si??  da  eis  he.  Et  TÓbui-sium  amlaid  sin  ac  ithi  chi?zd 
Menelipm'.s-,  cei??  co  roetla16  uad  in  becan  bethad  robui  and,  7  co 
fuair  bas  fo  chetuair. 

Conaid  confad  Thid  conigi  sm17. 

1  Eg.  a  bfhuilii».  Aeht  iaraim        2  Eg.  atdar  Hum  rotoirnim        3  Eg.  caidhe 
P.  7  coidhe  an  Grecach  glormer  7  in  curaidh  crodha  C.  4  Eg.  a  occa  cenn 

an  churaidh  5  Eg.  uadha  de  6  Eg.  ecca  7  Eg.  7  mar  dotucadh 

rouai-sium  sel  aga  fegain  8  Eg.  aca  cognam  7  aga  chruaidhthescadh 

9  Eg.  baindei  an  ghascaidh        10  Eg.  is  uime  dochuaidh-sii<m        u  Eg.  tucudh 
di  rocuingidh    E.  rocbun-ig  12  Eg.  Cuic  ri  dhec.enfir  13  7  'ga  faicsin 

14  Eg.  0  'dconnairc         15  Eg.  Gorgoine  ua  cenn  na  bainndei         16  Eg.  cein  no 
cur-éla  17  Eg.  conadh  he  confadb  Tit  conuici  sin 


214 


THE  THEBAID 

that  I  ask  of  you,  for  I  now  hate  this  frail  fading  body  in  which 
I  am.  But  I  ask  of  you  that  the  head  of  Melanippus  be  given 
me,  for  methinks  his  strength  was  brought  down  by  the  cast 
I  made  at  him.  And,  ye  Greek  kingfolk,"  said  he,  "  grant  me 
that  request  of  you.  And  where,"  said  he,  "  is  warlike  Hippo- 
medon  ?  and  where  is  most  puissant  Parthenopaeus  ?  Bring  the 
mad-voiced  Greek,  Capaneus.  Give  over  to  me,  O  youths,  the 
head  of  the  hero  who  has  wounded  me." 

And  when  he  heard  that,  Capaneus  arose  and  preceded 
everyone  to  the  place  where  Melanippus  was;  and  when  he 
arrived,  he  raised  him  on  his  strong  left  shoulder,  and  made  a 
cast  of  him  thence  into  the  presence  of  Tydeus.  But  when 
Tydeus  had  seen  Melanippus  there  in  blanchings  of  death  and 
in  symptoms  of  dissolution,  this  is  what  he  said :  "  Bring  the 
head  of  the  hero  close  to  me,"  said  he.  And  when  it  was  brought, 
he  remained  a  while  looking  at  it  angrily;  and  he  formed  a 
plan,  he  pulled  it  down  towards  himself,  and  there  commenced 
gnawing  and  rending  hard  at  the  head  of  Melanippus.  And 
when  he  was  thus  engaged,  then  came  Minerva,  to  wit,  the 
goddess  of  valour,  from  Jove,  son  of  Saturn,  and  it  was  about 
this  she  had  gone  to  him,  to  ask  help  for  Tydeus  in  the  battle ; 
and  "when  it  was  not  granted  her,  she  asked  of  Jove  to  make  a 
god  of  Tydeus.  Fifteen  Theban  kings  had  Tydeus  killed  that 
day  in  single  combats.  And  that  was  granted  her,  and  she  came 
unto  Tydeus,  and  he  being  seen  by  her,  horror  and  great  fear 
seized  her  before  him.  She  had  seen  him  eating  the  head  of 
Melanippus ;  and  when  the  rough  hor&io  serpents  of  the  Gorgon 
had  risen  about  the  head  of  the  goddess,  to  wit,  Minerva,  she 
turned  and  fled  from  Tydeus,  and  left  him  in  that  guise  behind 
her.  And  he  was  thus  eating  the  head  of  Melanippus,  until 
the  little  life  that  was  in  him  stole  away  from  him,  and  he  died 
forthwith. 

The  fury  of  Tydeus  thus  far. 


215 


E.  42a  25  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  226b 


IX 

Ba  hadbal  tra  toirrsi1  -j  domenma  na  nGrec2  don  gnim  sin.   £  ' 

3340  0  rochualadar  immorro  na  Tiabanda  Tid  croda  confadach  do  1 
chacnum  -j  do  ithi  chind  Menelibuis,  rogob  fichfergi  -j  ani/*di3 
adbul  iad.    Na  Gmc4,  immorro,  ba  lughaide5  a  figuba  ^  a  ngeran  2 
a  los  Tid.     Uair  ba  hole  acu  dul  dar  in  recht  n-r/idligthech  3 
ndeona  .i.  duni  d'  ithi6.    Et  is  ed  inwister  -and  dono  co  ro[fh]acaib 

3345  Mairt,  dea7  in  chatha,  in  chath  i  11a  si?*  re  haduath  in  gnima 
sir;  dori«di8  Tid.  Is  andsin  roericheadar9  na  Tiabanda  co 
tindisnach  do  digail  Menelipias,  axnal  bad10  fialchairdi  diles11 
dearbrathar  do  iad  uili;  -j  rogres  Ethiocles  rig12  na  Tebi  co  tren 
andsi?i  na  sluagu,  -j  is  ed  roraid:  "Adar  lind,  a  fhiru,"  ar  se,  12 

335o"nidad13  daini   in  sluag  cusa  soichi   .i.  na  Gmc14,  acht  mad 
nathracha  nemi  -j  leomain  lanmera15  ac  ithi  dai??e  axnal  dorigni  17 
Tid,  1  ni  tabraid  da  n-airi  na  dei  uasta  risna  hairdib  aduathmara 
doniad."    Et  o  roraid-seom  sin,  rotrenindsaig  na  Grecu16,  -j  ba24 
haicnead  oenduirce  uili  andsin  ac  na  Tiahandaib  do  chosmi/?i 

3355  chuirp  Thid  risna  G?^caib  co  fidiglai[di]s  air17  cend  Menelibuis 
d'  ithi18,  -j  na  huile  ar  cheana  dorindi  riu. 

Is  andsin19  tra  roerig  Fama,  i?igen  Te?-r&,  co  firluath  foluaim-  32 
neach,  -j   roscail  in   seel  sm  ba  hilltuathaib  na  nG?'ec  .i.  Tid 
(col.  /3)  da  marbad.     Et  ged20  chualaig  ~Po\inices  mac   Eidip 

3360  sin  a  fer  co?/itha  -j  comamd  da  marbad,  nir-chreid  a  chetuaxr. 
Uair  rabui  d'  aichni21  a  eangnwwia  aici-sium   nar-ba  doig  les 
c?i?'aid   da   commaidem,  na    milid   da   marbad,  na   hairsidi  d' 
arrach22  iwn  fhir  sin  [can  fis  Eg.].     Et  gid  ed  o  cualaig-siu?//  a  39 
deimin23,  rosocht  fair  coma  crwaidhit/ier  ri  crandlaem  gach24  n-alt 

3365  "I  gach  n-aigi  de  o  chi»d  co  bond,  -j  robanad  imi  mar  scoith- 
[sh]eamair25  no  mar  lenid  ar  na  lantuar,  -j  roerich  ceo  co??idorcha 

1  Eg.  toirrisi      2  Eg.  na  Grecaoh       3  Eg.  fiebferei  7  aininne      4  Eg.  Grecaig 
5  Eg.  lughaide    E.  lubaidi  6  Eg.  n-inndligthech  ndeonnda  .i.  duine  do  ithe 

7  Eg.  dei  8  Eg.  dorinne  9  Eg.  roeirgetar  10  Eg.  amal  ua 

11  Eg.  dilsi  12  Eg.  ri  13  Eg.  nidedh  u  Eg.  soichthi  .i.  na  Grecaigh 

15  Eg.  laimnera  l6  Eg.  Grecaigh  17  Eg.  ca  ndighlaidis  fair 

18  Eg.  do  ithi        19  Eg.  dorighne.    As  andsin        20  Eg.  Et  gedo        2t  Eg.  dobi 
do  aithne         22  Eg.  na  airsidh  da  fharrac/i  23  Eg.  dochuala-siurn  a  dhe)«in 

24  Eg.  lomehrand  atha  each  25  Eg.  scothsemur 

2l6 


THE  THEBAID 


BOOK  IX 

Now  vast  was  the  sorrow  and  despondency  of  the  Greeks  at 
that  deed.  But  when  the  Thebans  heard  that  bloody  and  furious 
Tydeus  had  gnawed  and  eaten  Melanippus'  head,  a  fury  of  rage 
and  vast  anger  seized  them.  As  for  the  Greeks,  however,  their 
grief  and  their  complaining  were  the  less  respecting  Tydeus.  For 
the  transgression  of  a  rational  human  law,  viz.  to  eat  a  man, 
they  held  a  crime.  And  this  was  said  there  also  that  Mars,  the 
god  of  battle,  left  the  battle  that  day  from  horror  at  that  deed 
which  Tydeus  had  done.  Then  the  Thebans  arose  hastily  to 
avenge  Melanippus,  as  if  they  all  were  to  him  a  proper  family 
relationship  of  brothers  ;  and  Eteocles,  king  of  Thebes,  strongly 
urged  the  hosts  there,  and  this  is  what  he  said :  "  It  seems  to 
us,  O  men,"  said  he,  "that  the  host  ye  attack,  to  wit,  the  Greeks, 
are  not  men  but  only  venomous  serpents  and  stark  mad  lions 
eating  men  as  Tydeus  has  done,  and  they  take  no  account  of 
the  gods  above  them,  notwithstanding  the  dreadful  signs  they 
make."  And  when  he  had  said  that,  he  strongly  assailed  the 
Greeks,  and  it  was  the  determination  of  every  single  person  there 
with  the  Thebans  to  win  the  body  of  Tydeus  from  the  Greeks 
that  they  might  avenge  upon  him  the  eating  of  Melanippus' 
head,  and  all  the  evils  he  had  done  them. 

Then  rose  Fame,  daughter  of  Earth,  very  swiftly  on  the  wing, 
and  spread  that  tale  through  the  many  tribes  of  the  Greeks, 
to  wit,  that  Tydeus  was  slain.  And  though  Polynices^  son  of 
Oedipus,  heard  that,  that  his  comrade  and  confidant  was  slain, 
he  did  not  believe  it  straightway.  For  he  had  such  recognition  of 
his  prowess  that  he  thought  it  unlikely  that  heroes  should  brag- 
over,  soldiers  slay,  or  veterans  do  violence  to  that  man  unknown 
to  him.  And  yet  when  he  heard  the  certainty  of  it,  silence  fell 
upon  him  till  every  joint  and  every  muscle  of  him  from  head  to 
sole  became  as  hard  as  a  handstaff  of  a  kiln,  and  he  became 
blanched  like  a  white  clover  flower,  or  like  a  fully  bleached 
smock;  and  a  very  dark  mist  arose  so  that  it  \xm  across  his 
217 


E.  42b  io  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  227*  17 

cumad  dara  rose  coma  dorcha  doimtheachta  do  gach   conair.    f* 
Romescad  a  men  ma  coma  balba  buaidirthi  na  briathra  rolabrad 
isan  uair  sin.   Is  anrfsin  rogab  a  armu,  -j  tanic  reimi  co  toirrseach 

3370  toitmendach  -j  a  sleag  ina  diaid  gan  tiachtain  de  a  tocuala1  re  43 
truma  na  toirrsi.    Et  in  chonair  thanic,  doruladar2  do  munter 
Tid    os   ci/id   chuirp   a   tigerna.     Rotaisbenad    leo   dosum   he, 
1  o  'tchondoirc-sium  he,  roleic  ina  loigi3  fo  chetoir  ar  corp  a 
charad,  -j  robai  ac  nuall4  moir,  *]  is  ed  roraid:  "  A  fhir5  cwmtha," 

3375  ar  se,  "  ni  hiad  so  aisceada  dingbala  rodligis  diwisa  .i.  do  thoitim  49 
i  tir  na  Tebi  i[c]  cosnmn  rigi  damsa  -j  misi  slan  dar  th'  eis6.    Et 
bid  fada  bam  loingseach-sa  dod  lo,  uair7  ni  buigbead8  brathair 
na  carait  cwmtha  mar  thusu  dot  eis.     Et,   a   Gram,"  ar   se, 
"  facbaid-si  misi  m'  senur  sund  na9  marbthar  sib  ni  as  mo10.  59 

3380J.cZ/i  leicid  etrum-sa  -j  mo  brathair,  uair  is  fo  lim  ita11  gan  rigi 
1  gan  flaitheamnas  dar  eis  Tid.    Et  truag  dono,  a  Thid,  nach12 
rothoiti%s-[s]a  leatsu  inn  adaig13  racomraicsemar  aroen  ar  U1S64 
i  cathraig  alai/id  Adraist.    Et  ba  caeom14  do  chlu  in  la  dochuadais  6S 
d'  iarraid  rigi  damsa  cusin15  Teib,  -j  adar  lim  ni  lemdais  laich 

3385  gaili16  do  ledrad  iter,  na  cttraid  coraruc  rit.   Et  cia  na  dirmanda  70 
diairmithi  na  degsluaig  rotrascradar17  ?    Uair  ni  mo  na  Ioib 
badei?i18  no  Mairt  dea  in  chatha  confa?ltis19  fuirmed  farain20  fort."  72 
Et  asa  haithli  sin  tuc  a  lam  dar  agaid  fordorcha  fulidi  in  gilla,  -j 
roglan  na  frasa  fala  di.    "  Ba  miscais  am  let,"  ar  se,  "  mo  namait- 
■  3390  sea  cosaniu21,  -\  ni  biu-sabeo  tar  th'  eis22  iter."    Et  [is  Eg.]  cuma, 
adbert  sin  -j  ronocht  a  claideam  -j  rothriall  a  lecun  co  hesli?id,  76 
no  gor-iadsad  a  munter  lama  tairis,  -|  gor-tairmisc  a  cliamain 
uasal  Adraist  é,  -j   robui   'ca  comdignad23,  cor-chuir  a  claideb8i 
'na  tindtech24.    Et  robui  VoMnices  co  hanbanrf  enirt  anrfsi?i  re 

3395  crad  na  cwmad  -\  re  truma25  na  toir[r]si. 

Cained  Tid  connigi  si??,  -j  lamc/<o?/tairt  YoMniceis  moir  mic 
Eidip  [andsein  Eg.]  (p.  43). 

1  Eg.  can  tiac'iiai/f  a  tocuala  2  Eg.  clorala  3  Eg.  ana  luighi 

4  Eg.  nuallguabha  6  Eg.  fhir    E.  fhiru  6  Eg.  h'eis  7  Eg.  uain 

8  Eg.  buidhet  9  Eg.  am  senur  sund  7  na  10  Eg.  nisa  mo  1X  Eg.  ita 

12  Eg.  truagh  amh  a  Tit  nach     13E.agaig     14  Eg.  coem     15  Eg.  do  cuadhuse 
d'  iarraidh  righe  doe/'sa  cusan  16  Eg.  laich  17  Eg.  rodtrascratar 

18  Eg.  lob  uodhein       19  Eg.  no  co  fseltais       20  Eg.  for  aen       21  Eg.  cosaniugb 
22  Eg.  do  th'  eis  23  Eg.  acca  coimdingnadh  24  Eg.  ten«tech 

25  Eg.  trumma 

2l8 


THE  THEBAID 

vision,  and  every  way  was  dark  and  impassable  for  him.  His 
mind  was  confused  so  that  the  words  he  spoke  at  that  time 
were  stammering  and  troubled.  Then  he  seized  his  arms  and 
proceeded  sadly  and  totteringly  with  his  spear  behind  him  and 
with  no  power  to  raise  it  owing  to  the  weight  of  grief.  And  on 
the  way  he  came,  the  people  of  Tydeus  met  him  bending  over  the 
body  of  their  lord.  It  was  shown  him  by  them,  and  when  he  had 
seen  it,  he  prostrated  himself  forthwith  on  the  body  of  his  Mend,, 
and  he  was  uttering  a  great  cry,  and  this  is  what  he  said :  "  O 
comrade,"  said  he,  "  these  are  not  worthy  requests  which  thou 
hast  claimed  from  me,  to  wit,  that  thou  shouldest  fall  in  the  land 
of  Thebes  in  winning  a  kingdom  for  me  whilst  I  am  safe  behind 
thee.  And  it  will  be  long  that  I  shall  be  an  exile  from  thy  day, 
for  I  shall  find  no  brother  or  friend  and  comrade  like  thee  after 
thee.  And,  Greeks,"  said  he,  "leave  me  alone  here  that  ye  be  not 
slaughtered  more.  But  abandon  both  me  and  my  brother,  for 
methinks  it  is  good  to  be  without  kingdom  or  sovereignty  after 
Tydeus.  And  alas  !  indeed,  O  Tydeus,  that  I  did  not  fall  with  thee 
the  night  we  first  encountered  together  in  the  beautiful  city  of 
Adrastus.  And  fair  was  thy  fame  the  clay  thou  didst  go  to  seek  a 
kingdom  for  me  at  Thebes,  and  methinks  no  valorous  heroes  would 
have  dared  to  mangle  thee  at  all,  or  champions  to  encounter  thee. 
And  what  are  the  innumerable  bands  or  goodly  hosts  that  have 
overthrown  thee  ?  For  no  more  than  Jove  himself,  or  Mars,  the  god 
of  battle,  could  they  accomplish  the  infliction  of  violence  upon  thee." 
And  after  that  he  laid  his  hand  on  the  darkened  blood-stained 
face  of  the  lad,  and  cleansed  the  drops  of  blood  from  it.  "Indeed 
thou  didst  hate  my  enemies  till  to-day,  and  after  thee  I  do  not 
live  at  all."  And  no  sooner  had  he  said  that  than  he  unsheathed 
his  sword,  and  proceeded  to  direct  it  to  a  vital  spot,  till  his 
people  closed  their  arms  over  him,  and  his  noble  father-in-law, 
Adrastus,  restrained  him,  and  continued  to  comfort  him,  till  he 
put  his  sword  into  its  sheath.  And  Polynices  remained  there 
feebly  and  weakly  owing  to  the  anguish  of  grief  and  the  weight 
of  sorrow. 

The  lamentation  for  Tydeus  thus  far,  and  the  hand-smiting  of 
great  Polynices,  son  of  Oedipus,  there. 
219 


E.  43a  i  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  227b  18 

Acus  o  rabui-sium  amlaid  si?i,  rochromsad1  trenfhir  thogaidi    ^  ' 
na  Tiabanda  'man  airdrig2  .i.  Ethiocles  dochum  in  chatha.    Is  e  86 

3400  ro[f hjrecair  iad  isi??n  uair  sin  in  rigmiKd  ard  allata  Ipomedon39i 
do  Grecaib,  -j  as  amlaid  robui,  i?ma  buidin  bodba  ar  lar  in  chatha 
in  fer  si??,  ~\  sciath  comnart  cruinrZleathan  fair,  -j  sleag  remur 
rofhata  'na4  laim,  -j  claideb  lethan  langer  isi?i  lai???  araill.    Et 
nir-ba  suaill  ni5  ris  ba  samalta  eisium  andsin  .i.  carrac  thend 

3405  thunidi6  i  cWchib  cuain  -j  calaith,  -7  na  tonrfa  ta?buai??e  in  mara93 
crithainbtheanaig  c?w?ascda  'ga  trenbuabid,  -j  sisi  gan  scailiud 
gan  scuchud  reompu.     Is  andsi??   [do]no  rogob  Eithiocles  for 
acallaim  na  nG?'ec,  -j  is  ed  roraid  riu  :  "  Cid  on,"  ar  se,  "  nach 
mebal  daib  beith  ac  diti/?.7  cuirp  crodacolaich  Thid?  -j8  ssethar 

34iodimai»   a  denam.     Uair  gid   a  oenur  ro[fh]acbad9   sib   he,   ni 
loigfitis  ethaidi  imluaimnecha  aoeir  air10  na  cua??arta  croesach11 
con,  -j  ni   loiscfed  teni  coemchoiserca12   he,   a  haithli  in  chuil 
doronni  .i.  duni  d'  ithi13."    Et  [is  Eg.]  cuma  adbertsoi?i  si??  -j  tuc  102 
urchur  do  Ipomedo??3  G?*ecda  gruadsolus  dont  [shjleig  rigda  robui 

3415  ina  laim,  co  tarla  'na  sesum  asa  sciath14  suaichnid  sec/tifhillti15. 
Et  tucsat  [o!o]no  dias  aili  do  Tiabandaib  da  urchar  inn  oenfhecht 
do  Ipomedo??3  .i.  Pheres  fuabartach  -j  Liiccus  lanchalma,    Saeigis  106 
secha  urchar  Phires16,  ■]  tescais  cir  chathbairr17  in  ckursA  urc[h]ur 
Liccm's.    Ipomedo??3,  tra,  ger-uat  iwida18  urchair  do,  ni  cem  ar 

3420  cul19  rue  as  a  n-inud  i  roibi,  acht  robui  co  hathlum  anrata  ac 
luathimirt  a  sceith  i  ??n-agaid  na  lsechraidi.    Is  andsi??  adchond- 
cadar  da  gaiscedach 20  glondme?-a  do  G/*ecaib  i??  n-eici??  si?i  i  roibi 
Ipamedo??3.i.  Alcon  anrata  macSitsión21,-]  Idas  athlom  anglondach  121 
a  Pisa.    Tangadar  si??,  1  a  mbuidni  diana  danarda  maroen22  riu, 

3425  do  [fhjortacht  -\  d'  [fh]oirithin23  Ipamedon3.  Et  tucsad  glui?i  re 
gliaid24  aroen  ris,  -j  ba  foirithin  dositm  si??  ona  ceathaib  enraaseda 
cruadarm  robadar  as  each  aird  air.  Et  0  rathocaib  a  cheand  7 
rodibraic  in  sleig  ngairbremw?-  nG?-ecda25  robai  !na  laim,  coma 

1  Eg.  rochrommsat  2  Eg.  'man  trenrigh  3  Eg.  Ipemedon 

4  Eg.  sleagh  crannremur  curata  'na         5  Eg.  nir-uo  suaill  inni         G  Eg.  tenrf- 
khuinidi  7  Eg.  diten  8  Eg.  7  is  9  Eg.  gidh  'na  aenm-  rof&ca ib 

10  Eg.  aoir  fair  ll  Eg.  craesfoslaicthi  12  Eg.  coemcoisrectha 

13  Eg.  duine  do  ithi  14  Eg.  shesam  aca  sgiath  15  Eg.  vn  rillte 

16  Eg.  Peres        17  Eg.  cathuarr        18  Eg.  ger-u  imdha         19  Eg.  ceim  ar  eula 
20  Eg.  ghsisccedach  21  Eg.  Sitsion  22  Eg.  foraon  23  Eg.  dfortacht 

7  dfoiridhthin       24  Eg.  glun  ria  gliaidh       25  Eg.  ant  sleg  ngairbremur  nGrecda, 

220 


THE  THEBAID 

And  when  he  was  thus,  the  chosen  champions  of  the  Thebans 
hastened  round  their  high-king,  to  wit,  Eteocles,  unto  the  war. 
He  that  answered  them  at  that  time  was  the  lofty  famous  royal 
soldier  Hippomedon,  a  Greek,  and  thus  he  stood,  that  man,  m  his 
warlike  troop,  in  the  midst  of  the  battle,  with  a  strong  broad  round 
shield  upon  him,  a  thick  very  long  spear  in  his  [one]  hand,  and 
a  broad  very  sharp  sword  in  the  other  hand.  And  it  was  no  insig- 
nificant thing  that  he  resembled  there,  to  wit,  a  firm  immovable 
rock  in  the  confines  of  haven  and  harbour,  with  the  green-sided 
waves  of  the  storm-shaken  troubled  sea  strongly  beating  upon 
it,  and  it  unsplit  and  unmoved  before  them.  Then  also  Eteocles 
began  addressing  the  Greeks,  and  this  is  what  he  said  to  them  : 
"  Wherefore,"  said  he,  "are  ye  not  ashamed  to  remain  defending 
the  gory  and  sinful  body  of  Tydeus  ?  it  being  vain  labour  so  to 
do.  For  though  ye  should  leave  him  alone,  no  flying  flocks  of 
air  or  open-gulleted  packs  of  dogs  would  settle  on  him,  and  no 
consecrated  fire  would  burn  him,  after  the  sin  he  has  committed, 
to  wit,  to  eat  a  man."  And  no  sooner  had  he  said  that  than  he 
delivered  at  bright-cheeked  Greek  Hippomedon  a  cast  of  the 
royal  spear  that  was  in  his  hand,  so  that  it  struck  and  stood  out 
of  his  conspicuous  sevenfold  shield.  And  two  other  Thebans 
also  delivered  two  casts  at  one  time  at  Hippomedon,  to  wit, 
aggressive  Pheres  and  full-valorous  Lycus.  The  cast  of  Pheres 
shot  past  him,  and  the  cast  of  Lycus  lopped  the  crest  of  the 
hero's  helmet.  Yet,  as  for  Hippomedon,  many  though  the  casts 
at  him  were,  not  a  step  backward  did  he  take  from  the  place  in 
which  he  stood,  but  he  remained  in  an  alert  warlike  attitude, 
swiftly  wielding  his  shield  against  the  hero-folk.  It  was  then 
that  two  daring  Greek  heroes  saw  that  strait  in  which  Hippo- 
medon stood,  to  wit,  warlike  Alcon,  a  son  of  Sicyon  [a  town], 
and  active  puissant  Idas  from  Pisa.  Those  came,  and  their 
keen  valiant  companies  along  with  them,  to  aid  and  help 
Hippomedon.  And  they  put  a  knee  to  battle  along  with  him, 
and  that  was  a  help  to  him  from  the  confused  showers  of  hard 
weapons  that  were  directed  upon  him  from  every  quarter. 
And  when  he  lifted  his  head  and  hurled  the  rough  and  thick 
Grecian  spear  that  was  in  his  hand,  it  was  as  swift  as  arrow 
221 


E.  43a  44  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  228»  20 

luaithithir  re  sseigid  a  srefig  ar  na  seolad1  tresna  sluagaib,  co   ,* 

3430  tarla  i?mi  Polistas,  comdis  airdni2  athc/t?<mtha  da  heis3, -j  tresin  125 

•  fer  sin  co  rotholl  in   rnih'd  Mopsns4,  7  co  rotrenmarb  in  triar 

Tiabanda  ba  nesa  do  .i.  Pothcis5  7  Cidon  -j  Tanager,  7  tresna 

feraib  sin  cen  anad,  cor-ben  i  cind  inn  airseda  Eiritsis,  cor-ba 

(col.   /3)  silta    semanna   na  sleigi  da  fhiaclaib6  -j   da   inchind,  130 

3435  coma  seiser  sarlsech  romarb  Ipamedon24  don  oenurchar.  Et  asa 
haithli  sin  roeirich  Leondtem  ar  scath  int  [sh]luaig,  7  tuc  urchar 
fas  falaig7  dochum  Ipamedom24,  -j  ta??ic  'na  diaid  si??  co  dichelta, 
7  rothar[r]aifig  Tid  chuici.  Ger-b  adbul  in  ecen8  engnoma  i 
roibi  Ipamedon24,  atchondairc  in  Tiabanda  ac  tarraing  Thid9,  7 

3440  tuc  bemclaideb  do  cor-ben  a  laim  'ga  gualaind  de10,  7   is  ed  137 
roraid :  "  Tid,"  ar  se,  "  dobean  do  laim  dit."    Cid  tra  acht  ba 
tri  rucsad  Tiabanda  chucu  corp  Tid11,  -j  rucsad  na  G?*e?'c12  uaithib 
ba  tri  he  a  fornirt  cathaigthi  7  engnwna  7  imgona. 

Acht  ata  ni  cheana,  nir-etsad  trenmih'd  na  Tiaba?ida  uili 

3445  ci/?»scug»d  Ipamedozn24  o  churpThid,-)  ge  ratelcthea  do  reitheda13 
togla  tulamais  da  scailter  cnuic  -j  cathracha,  ni  claefidis  é  uada14, 
no  co  tanic  in  fhiuir15  aduathmar  ifirnaidi  .i.  Tesifoné.    Et  rogob  150 
aduath  na  catha  ceachtarda  re  hurgrain  na  hamaidi  si/t,  cen  co 
facadar  hi.    Is  andsi?i  rogabsi  delb  fhir  do  Grecaib  fWrri  .i.  Alis, 

3450-]  tanic  co  foill  fethama?7  dochum  Ipamedon24,  7  rolabair  ris.    Ba 
hingnad  re  h Ipamedon24  in  ecla-j  inyi  urowuin16  rogob  e  re  guth 
na  baidbi17,  7  si  a  richt  Alis  gaisceda?^.   Uair  is  ed  roraid-si,  -j  si  157 
ac  toirrsi:  "  Is  dimain  a  fidénai,"  ar  si,  "apaigi18  gasrad  nGrec  do 
ditin19,  7  ba  doilgi  dit  Adraist  int  ardrig  do  brith20  do  Tiaba?ida?6 

3455  asin  chath   ina  cheli,  -j   ata  acat  cetgairm-su   seach  each   da 
fhortacht  7   da  forithin21.    Et  is  truag  limsa  mar  adchondarc 
a  t?-?llsi  taitneamacha  i  llamaib  na  loechraide  'ga  lantar[r]ai»g. 
Et  ni  fata  uait22  it?V  e  .i.  i  fail  i  faichi  in  ndluim  lanmoir  luaithrid23,  164 
1   in   ceo  comthiug  os  cendaib   int   [shjluaig."    Ni  fhitir  thra 

1  Eg.  a  s/engluib  seolad  2  Eg.  tailai  inni  Politas  comdis  oirdne  3  Eg.  da  eis 
*  Eg.  Moppsus  5  Eg.  Potcis  6  E.  cor-ba  repeated  Eg.  siltha  semonda  da 
fiaclaib  7  Eg.  fás  iolaitj  8  Eg.  an  hecin  9  Eg.  Tit  10  Eg.  bemclaideb  do  cor- 
ben  a  lam  aca  gualaind  de  E.  a  laim  ga  laim  ga  gualaind  de  n  Eg.  fo  tri... Tit 
12  Eg..Grecaigh  13  Eg.  rothelceta  do  rethteadhá  14  Eg.  uadh  15  Eg.  fuir 
E.  fh/Tuiv  1(i  Eg.  in  uruaman  17  Eg.  na  baidhue  18  E.  apaidi  19  Eg.  g&BTaidi 
Grec  do  diten  -°  Eg.  breith  21  Eg.  furtocht  7  da  foiridhtin  22  Eg.  uadha 
23  Eg.  itir  é  .i.  in  fail  a  faichi  imdluim...E.  luaithrig  24  Eg.  Ipemedon 

222 


THE  THEBAID 

from  string  directed  through  the  hosts  till  it  passed  to  Polites, 
so  that  there  were  signs  of  wounding  after  it,  and  through  him, 
till  it  pierced  the  soldier  Mopsus,  and  starkly  slew  the  three 
Thebans  next  him,  to  wit,  a  Phocaean,  Cydon,  and  a  Tanagraean, 
and  through  those  men  without  pause,  till  it  struck  in  the  head 
of  the  veteran  Eryx,  so  that  the  rivets  of  the  spear  were  sown 
among  his  teeth  and  in  his  brains.  Thus  they  were  six  good  heroes 
that  Hippomedon  slew  at  the  one  cast.  And  thereafter  Leonteus 
arose  to  shield  the  host,  and  made  a  vain  and  hidden  cast  at 
Hippomedon,  and  he  came  thereafter  secretly,  and  dragged 
Tydeus  away.  Though  huge  was  the  stress  of  valour  in  which 
Hippomedon  was,  he  saw  the  Theban  dragging  Tydeus,  and 
dealt  him  a  sword-stroke,  and  smote  off  his  arm  at  the  shoulder, 
and  this  is  what  he  said :  "  Tydeus,"  quoth  he,  "  has  struck  thy 
hand  off  thee."  Nay,  thrice  did  the  Thebans  take  unto  them 
the  body  of  Tydeus,  and  thrice  did  the  Greeks  take  it  from 
them  by  dint  of  fighting,  prowess,  and  mutual  wounding. 

But  there  is  one  thing  more.  All  the  strong  soldiers  of  the 
Thebans  were  unable  to  move  Hippomedon  from  Tydeus'  body, 
and  though  front-attacking  battering  rams  whereby  hills  and 
cities  are  cleft,  were  hurled  against  him,  they  could  not  weary 
him  from  it,  till  the  horrible  infernal  Fury,  to  wit,  Tisiphone, 
•came.  And  horror  seized  both  the  battalions  at  the  loathsome- 
ness of  that  witch,  though  they  <*«£  not  see  her.  It  was  then 
«he  assumed  the  form  of  a  Greek,  to  wit,  Halys,  and  she  came 
stealthily  and  quietly  to  Hippomedon  and  spoke  to  him.  And 
Hippomedon  wondered  at  the  fear  and  the  terror  that  he  con- 
ceived at  the  voice  of  the  war-goddess,  she  being  in  the  form  of 
heroic  Halys.  For  this  is  what  she  said  to  him,  she  being  in 
sorrow :  "  What  thou  doest  is  vain,"  said  she,  "  to  defend  Greek 
soldiers'  entrails ;  and  it  were  harder  for  thee  to  fetch  Adrastus, 
the  high-king,  from  Thebans  out  of  the  battle  than  his  fellow,  and 
he  is  first  calling  thee  beyond  everyone  to  aid  and  help  him. 
And  I  regret  how  I  saw  his  shining  tresses  in  the  hands  of  the 
hero-folk  as  they  verily  dragged  him.  And  he  is  not  far  from 
thee  at  all,  to  wit,  where  thou  seest  the  very  great  mass  of  dust, 
and  the  exceeding  thick,  mist  over  the  heads  of  the  host."  Now 
223 


E.  43b  36  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  228b  24 

3460  Ipomedon5  cid  dogenad1  de  sin,  7  roathgres  in  badb  sin  he,  7    ,£  " 
adbe?-t   ris:    "Is    com    dit  Adraist   d'   [fh]orithin   inna  anad2 
acinn   apach    treththoll-sa   Thid."    Is   andsin  rochuir-siu?>t  ar 
fsesum  a  muintire  in  cathirgal  dara  eis   .i.  corp  Tit,  7  tanic 
i  nndiaid  na  baidbi,  -j  si  i  richt  Alis,  cein  no  co  ndeachaid  uad3 

3465  ina  richt  fein  hi.  Et  o  dachuaid-si  uad,  adchondairc  na  Grecu, 
7  Adraist  eturru  ina  charbad,  gan  ecla  gan  imsmm  air.  Et  is 
imi  doroni  Tesifone  in  ceilc  sin4  co  ?ubertais  na  Tiabanda  corp 
Tit  leo  dar  eis  Ipomone5. 

Dala  immorro  na  Tiabanda  rucsad  leo  corp  Tid  fo  chetoir  dar  177 

3470  eis  Ipomedoin5.  Rocurid  gairi  coscair  -j  com[m]aideam  acu 
uasa  chind6,  7  o  'dchualaig  Ipomedon6  sin,  tuc  aichni7  ar  in 
gnim:  "  Is  fir,"  ar  se,  "  os  cind  chuirp  Thid  dobe?-ar  in  gair-sea." 
Acht  chena  ba  hanna?n  (p.  44)  re  trenfheraib  tomaitheam  air 
cein  ba  beo,  uair  ba  mend  leis  roena  romadmanrf  [7]  dith8  ar 

3475  tuathaib  na  Tiabanda  remi.  Et  o  rasiacht  cucu  amlaid  si??  corp 
Tith,  roiadsad9  iwimi  ass  each  aird,  -j  darindset  guingaland  [de] 
amal  nobeith10  beo,  7  ba  buaid  vgaiscid  ris  trenfher  dib  rofor- 
dergad  a  armu  asa  apach11. 

Nir-fhuilifig  bra  do  Ipomedon6  sin  do  cloistecht  gan  dul  da  196 

3480  indsaigid,  ge  rafitiV  gur-b  anbunts  do  cathugwd12  dar  cend  chuirp 
gen   anmain   and.    Et  tanic  remi13,  -j  a  claideb  urnocht14  ina 
laim,  -j  ni  thuc  aichni  ar  carait15  n[a]  ar  cumthach  andsi?i  re  198 
tendta  in  tindesnais  -j  re  fiuchud  na  fergi.    Acht  cheana  ba 
tairmeasc  dosum  na  sligthi  slearana  risna  srothaib  falcmara  fala  200 

3485  conferdais  a  tsebuib  na  trenfher16  ar  na  tuargain  dostim,  -j  re 
himad  arm  na  n-airsed  ar  na  n-airleach,  -|  carbad  cruadbristi  na 
cwrad  ar  na  comach,  -j  re  loechaib  leathmarba  ac  urt?'mll  aitheirgi. 
Et  robo  thairmesc  luith  -|  lanimtheacAia  do  in  gum  tucastar  202 
Ethiocles  ri  na  Tiabanda  air17.    Et  nir-airig-sium18  sin,  no  ma 

3490  rofhitir,  nir  miad  leis  a  legin  ris,  no  co  n[d]iglad19  ar  inti  dos-tuc 

1  Eg.  cidh  do  dhenum  2  Eg.  dfomdhitin  na  anudh  3  Eg.  eis  7  eorp...uadha 
4  Eg.  is  uime  dorinne  in  celc  sin  5  Eg.  Ipemedon  6  Eg.  Eoferadh  gairthi 
coscuir  7  comaidmi  acu  osa  cind  7  Eg.  aithne  8  Eg.  uair  mexca  leis  rsenu 
romad»tu«n  7  dith  9  Eg.  roiadhsit  10  Eg.  dorindsit  gui/igalfl/ide  amal  nobeth 
11  Eg.  ngaiscici  leisna  trenferaibh  fo/xlercadh  a  n-arrna  asa  n-apach  12  Eg.  ge 
rafithair  7  giw  ua  bhorusta  do  cathugad  13  Eg.  roime  14  Eg.  urnochta 

15  Eg.  ar  caipai      16  Eg.  ft'/lsech      17  Eg.  na  Teue  fair      l8  Eg.  ni  roairig-sium 
19  Eg.  leis  a  mothugad  no  co  ndighl«ii    E.  co  niglag 
224 


THE  THEBAID 

Hippomedón  did  not  know  what  he  should  do  thereat,  and  that 
war-goddess  again  urged  him,  and  said  to  him  :  "  It  is  more 
proper  for  thee  to  aid  Adrastus  than  to  stay  by  these  perforated 
entrails  of  Tydeus."  Then  he  put  under  the  safeguard  of  his 
people  after  him  the  battle-objective,  to  wit,  the  body  of  Tydeus, 
and  he  came  after  the  war-goddess,  she  being  in  the  form  of 
Halys,  till  she  went  from  him  in  her  own  shape.  And  when  she 
had  gone  away,  he  saw  the  Greeks,  and  amongst  them  Adrastus 
in  his  chariot,  with  no  fear  or  anxiety  on  his  part.  And  Tisiphone 
had  wrought  that  guile  in  order  that  the  Thebans  might  bear 
away  the  body  of  Tydeus  behind  Hippomedon's  back. 

But  as  to  the  Thebans,  they  took  with  them  the  body  of  Tydeus 
forthwith  behind  Hippomedon's  back.  Shouts  of  victory  and 
boasting  were  raised  by  them  over  his  head ;  and  when  Hippo- 
medon  heard  that  he  recognised  what  had  happened.  "  It  is  true," 
said  he,  "over  Tydeus'  body  is  this  cry  uttered."  But  yet  it  was 
rare  for  champions  to  brag  over  him  while  he  lived,  for  more 
frequent  with  him  were  disasters  of  great  calamities  and  defeats 
inflicted  upon  the  Theban  tribes  by  him.  And  when  the  body 
of  Tydeus  had  reached  them  thus,  they  surrounded  it  from 
every  direction  and  made  an  enemy  mutilation  of  him  as  if  he 
were  alive,  and  it^was  a  victory  of  valour  to  the  champion 
among  them  who  reddene4  his  weapons  in  Tydeus'  entrails. 

Now  Hippomedon  could  not  bear  to  listen  to  that  without 
going  to  him,  though  he  knew  that  it  was  folly  for  himself  to 
fight  there  for  a  lifeless  body.  And  he  proceeded  with  his  naked 
sword  in  his  hand,  and  he  gave  no  recognition  to  friend  or 
comrade  there  owing  to  the  pressure  of  haste  and  the  boiling 
of  rage.  But  yet  a  hindrance  to  him  were  the  paths  slippery 
with  the  copious  streams  of  blood  which  poured  from  the  sides 
of  the  champions  stricken  by  him,  and  owing  to  the  quantity  of 
weapons  of  the  slaughtered  veterans,  and  of  the  hard  fractured 
chariots  of  the  heroes  utterly  broken,  and  owing  to  half-dead 
warriors  as  they  strove  to  rise  again.  And  a  hindrance  to  his 
moving  and  full  activity  was  the  wound  which  Eteocles,  king  of 
the  Thebans,  had  inflicted  on  him.  And  he  did  not  perceive 
that,  or  if  he  knew,  he  did  not  deign  to  show  it,  till  he  could 
c.  225  I5 


E.  44a  24  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  229a  27 

air1.    Is  andsin  adchondairc-siu???  ara  tairm2  Tid  ■]  ech  a  thigerna   IX  " 
'na  lai??t  ac  foshenra3  a  srein  co  siblach,  -j  rot?-mll-so??i  Jmrri,  -7  o 
rotn'all,  robui  int  ech  ac  doibli  -\  ac  debili  ris4,  -j  is  ecZ  roraid- 
siu???  ria  :  "  Cid  nam-leig-sea  ort,  a  eich  ?"  ar  se,  "  uair  ni  fhuil  211 

3495  do  shuil   re   crichaib   na  Cedidone,  na  risi/i  rig  rad-riadaig,  -j 
£a  ^soJy^K11-        bageba  ferbruigib  firglana  i   ??gartaib  Grec,  -j   tair5  limsa  do 

digailt  Thid  ar  na  Tiabanda."    Ba  samalta,  tra,  co  tuiced  int  218 
ech  a  n-ebairt-sium6  ria,  -j  roan  ris  -|  dochuaid-sium  iuirri,  -j  o 
dachuaid,  roli??g  int  ech  co  luthmar  lanathlum  assa  bail  robui7, 

3500  co  rocrithnaigsedar  f'aichtega8  firglana  -j  tulcha  tondglasa  na 
Teibi  re  trethan.  Rodlumait9,  immorro,  -j  rodai??gnigid  dir- 
manwa10  danarda  na  Tiabanda,  o  'tchondcadar  Ipomedon  cucu 
ban11  samla  si??.  Rothuairc  -\  rothesc  andsi??  Ipomedon  iadswm, 
co??ttis  tamaiii  thulniera  ac  tuiti?7i  chuirp  na  cw?-ad  da  eis. 

3505      Roi?Mpotar12  na  Tiabanda  remi-sium,  -j  rotheichset  dona  moigib 
reidi  ara  rapadar,  no  co  rangadar  co  himlib  amreidi  srotha  Ismen,  226 
-j  roopredar  cseiti13  falaig  form  andsin,  -j  robui  tuili  falcmar  firdo- 
main  isi?i  sruth  intan  rosiachtadar-sii»?  [da  mdmigid  Eg.]  he14.  235 
Ba  gairit  dono  a  n-osad-sz/.?n  andun  intan  rosiacht  Ipomedo?i  da 

35ion-i?idsaigid,  -]  roobair15  iad  gan  toirnem  -j  gan  toirlem  (col.  /3) 
da  eoch,  acht  robui  'ca  timchellad  1  'ga  timsugiid.  Is  andsi?i 
rolingestar  na  Tiabanda  i  ??n-athaib  -\  i  ??n-iiidbe?-aib  na  haband, 
-]  roleicsead  a  n-armu  uaithib  risii?  sruth  re  tindenus  in  techid, 
1  ba  he  dichracht  in  teichid  commitis  i  teand16  re  gn'an  -j  re 

35i5gaineni  int  [shjrotha  aca  falach  ar  ecla  I])omedoin,  uair  ba  ferr  239 
leo  a  ndianbadwd  ina  bith17  ac  fulang  imnid18  iwn  fhir  si??.    Gach 
oen  dib  ba  treoraig19  usci,  rotWalldais  sna??i  darin  sruth,  no  co 
m[b]ertis20  na  cathchresa  ceangailti  -j  na  luireacha  lanchumga 
i  ??n-icht?^r  iad.    Imasa3-sium  fuithib21  amal  bleidmil  ruoradbul  241 

3520  muiriái  ba  bradanaib  becca  ballbreca22,  co  scailit  -j  co  scanrit 

1  Eg.  in  aithis  rus-tuc  fair        2  Eg.  ara  tairis    E.  tairisi         3  Eg.  fosheinm 
4  Eg.  ac  doibli  7  ac  clobeile  ris  5  Eg.  risin  righ  aga  rabus  7  fogeua 

tu  forbruige  firglana  a  ngargaibh  Grec  7  tairr  6  Eg.  tuicfed  ant  ech 

a  ndebairt-sium  7  Eg.  asa  fail  a  raiue  8  Eg.  faithcedha 

»  Eg.  Eodluthaigb  10  Eg.  dirmonna  u  Eg.  fon  ]2  Eg.  roime 

13  Eg.  rofobratar  coithi  14  Eg.  da  indsaigid  e  15  Eg.  rofopair 

16  Eg.  combidis  a  tenn        17  Eg.  na  beth        18  Eg.  imsnidh        19  Eg.  treorach 
20  Eg.  co  mberdis  21  Eg.  lantromma  a  n-iaclitur  iat.  Indsaigh  futhaib 


baillbreca 


226 


THE  THEBAID 

avenge  it  on  the  man  who  had  inflicted  it  on  him.  Then  he  saw 
Tydeus'  faithful  chariot-fighter,  in  his  hand  his  master's  horse, 
jingling  her  reins  constantly;  and  he  attempted  to  mount  her, 
and  when  he  did,  the  horse  became  hard-mouthed  and  restive 
to  him,  and  this  is  what  he  said  to  her :  "  Why  dost  thou  not 
allow  me  to  mount  thee,  0  horse  ?  "  said  he.  "  For  thine  eye 
rests  not  on  the  confines  of  Calydon,  or  the  king  that  trained 
thee.  And  thou  wilt  get  truly  bright  grassy  holms  in  Greek 
fields,  pi'ovided  thou  come  with  me  to  avenge  Tydeus  upon  the 
Thebans."  Now  it  was  likely  that  the  horse  understood  what 
he  had  said  to  her,  and  she  stayed  for  him,  and  he  mounted  her, 
and  when  he  did,  the  horse  galloped  powerfully  full-actively 
from  the  place  where  she  was  so  that  the  very  bright  plains 
and  the  green-surfaced  hills  of  Thebes  shook  with  tumult.  The 
rough  crowds  of  the  Thebans  were  massed  and  strengthened 
when  they  saw  Hippomedon  coming  to  them  in  that  guise. 
Hippomedon  smote  and  cut  them  down  there  so  that  the  bodies 
of  the  heroes  were  writhing  trunks  falling  behind  him. 

The  Thebans  turned  about  before  him,  and  fled  from  the 
smooth  plains  on  which  they  stood,  till  they  reached  the  rugged 
borders  of  the  river  Ismenos;  and  hidden  by-ways  led  them 
astray,  and  there  was  a  copious  very  deep  flood  in  the  river 
when  they  reached  it.  Short  was  their  stay  there  when  Hippo- 
medon arrived  to  attack  them,  and  he  menaced  them  without 
dismounting  or  leaping  from  his  horse,  but  kept  rounding  up 
and  gathering  them.  Then  the  Thebans  leaped  into  the  fords 
and  estuaries  of  the  river,  and  dropped  their  arms  down  the 
stream  owing  to  the  haste  of  the  flight ;  and  such  was  their 
eagerness  for  flight  that  they  were  pressing  against  the  gravel 
and  sand  of  the  river  while  concealing  themselves  for  fear  of 
Hippomedon.  For  they  preferred  to  be  quickly  drowned  rather 
than  to  remain  suffering  tribulation  from  that  man.  Every  one 
of  them  that  was  expert  in  water  proceeded  to  swim  over  the 
stream,  till  the  bound  baldrics  and  very  narrow  cuirasses  carried 
them  to  the  bottom.  He  turned  himself  about  upon  them  like 
a  great  huge  sea-monster  upon  little  speckled  salmon  till  they 
227  15—2 


E.  44b  15  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  229b  29 

remi  co  hochraib1  cuan  -]  calath.    Is  andsi?i  rocomraic  fer  do   ^  ' 
munti'r  Ipomedoin  .i.  Ión,  -j  Cromis  do  Tiabandaib  ar  lar  na 
haband,  -7  rothoit  andsin  Ion  risin  Tiabanda.    Nir-bo  echt  cen 
aithi  sira,  tra,  uair  thuc2  Antipus  do  Grecaib  coscur  Cromis  fo  252 

3525  chetoir.    Ni  head  sin  [do]no  nach  taras  ar  Amitoptts3,  uair  rothoit 
re  hlpsens  mac  Asopas  do  Tiabandaib,  ~\  ba  cend4  sgegail  sin  do 
Astiages  -j   do  Linus  do  Grecaib,  uair  rothoitsed  andsin  com- 
thoitim  re  hlpsews  Tiabanda.    Is  andsin  rotrascair,  -j  rothoirind  256 
Ipomedon  sluagu  toirrseach[a]  na  Tebi.    Robuaidir  immorro  na 

353ohaigid5  Ipsetis  na  buidni  Grecda  badar  margen  re  luomedon, 
coma  forruad  fuilidi6  sruth  alaind  Ismen  isinn  uair  sin,  ger-ba 
tonda  tibreacha  taebglana  intan  tangadar  na  catha  sin.  Deithbir7 
on  ba  drochad15  comnart  co?«imtheachta  d'armaib  imda  arbristi15 
Uachtur  na  haband8  on  bruach  co  'raill,  -]  ba  hacaireda  comdaingni 

3535  conairi  laich  leadharthacha  lanbaiti  re  grian  -|  re  gainem  ichtair 
na  haband. 

Intan  robadar  am  laid  sin,  rosin  Agn'phws  do  Tiabandaib  a  266 
laim  dochum  chraibi  robui  uasa  chind  i  mbruach  na  haband,  -j 
tug  Menetcens  do  Grecaib  beim  claidib  do,  cor-leig  in  lai/n  risin  267 

354ocraib,  1  co  rothoit  isin  n-abaind  fo  chetoir.    Tuc  immorro  Ipseus 
do  Tiabandaib  sadud  sleigi  ar  Saigis  do  Grecaib,  coma  crechtach 
comoslaichti9  a  chnes  a  n-icht«r  na  haband.    Et  rotn'all  Agenor 
a  brathair  a  thocbail  leis,  -j  o  nar-et10  a  imarchur,  roleig  a  badud  272 
fen  maroen11  ris.    Et  rothoit  dono  Caletus  do  Tiabandaib  andsi» 

3545  isin  sasbchoiri  ba  cho?nair,  co  robaided  and.   Ger-ba  bas  tra  crich12 
each  curad  dib  sin,  ba  hecsamla  a  n-aideda13,  uair  is  and  dorala  280 
sleg14  Megalis  do  Tiabandaib  'na  seol  risin  sruth  dochum  Aigerteis  281 
do  Grecaibh  co  rus-facaibh  can  anmain. 

Is  andsin  rogonadh  tra  ech  taebhsolus  Tit  ro  fa  Ipomedon  co 

355oroiue  co  debeil  dasachtach  aca  chur-som  di.  Et  fo  hingnath 
leis-si?im  sin,  uair  ni  fitir  cidh  ima  roiue,  no  co  facaidh  ant  slegh 
na  sesam  eisti.  Et  o  doconnairc-sium  sin,  dotairling  di,  -j  roben 
ant  sleg  aisti,  "j  rofopair  da  cois  sluighi  na  sluagh,  co  rotoitsit  in 

1  Eg.  foc/íraib  2  Eg.  risna  Tiab-  Nir-uo  hechta  can  aifi  sin  tra  uair  rue 

3  Eg.  tarrus  ar  Antipas  4  Eg.  ba  forcend  5  Eg.  na  aigiri  6  Eg.  fuilidhi 
repeated  7  Eg.  Deithfir  8  Eg.  ar  uacbtar  na  bobband  9  Eg.  creacbln«ií//íf/ii 
comfoslaictbi  10  Eg.  nar-fet  ll  Eg.  foraon  12  Eg.  criacb  13  Eg.  becsamalta 
a  n-aidbedba  son  14  E.  44'1  ends,  and,  with  the  loss  of  two  folios  between  p.  44 
and  p.  45,  resumes  at  line  3892  in  another  and  less  accurate  hand.      15  Eg.  om. 

228 


THE  THEBAID 

were  scattered  and  dispersed  before  him  to  the  edges  of  harbours 
and  havens.  There  one  of  Hippomedon's  people,  to  wit,  Ion, 
encountered  Chromis,  a  Theban,  in  the  middle  of  the  river,  and 
Ion  fell  there  by  the  Theban.  That  however  was  no  unrequited 
deed;  for  Antiphos,a  Greek, vanquished  Chromis  forthwith.  That, 
again,  was  nothing  but  what  happened  to  Antiphos,  for  he  fell 
before  Hypseus  son  of  Asopus,  a  Theban ;  and  that  was  an  end 
of  days  to  Astyages  and  Linus,  Greeks ;  for  they  fell  there  in 
the  same  fall  as  Theban  Hypseus.  There  Hippomedon  over- 
threw and  bore  down  the  dispirited  hosts  of  Thebes.  On  the 
other  hand,  Hypseus,  in  opposition  to  him,  threw  into  confusion 
the  Greek  companies  that  were  along  with  Hippomedon,  so 
that  the  beautiful  stream  of  Ismenos  was  at  that  time  crimson 
and  bloody,  though  its  waves  were  welling  and  pure-sided  when 
those  battalions  came.  That  was  natural  mat"  the  surface  of 
the  river  from  one  bank  to  another  was  a  strong  easily  crossed 
bridge  of  much  broken  armour ;  and  mangled  heroes  submerged 
to  the  gravel  and  sand  at  the  bottom  of  the  river  formed  firm 
anchors  for  a  road. 

When  they  were  thus,  Agripus,  a  Theban,  stretched  out  his 
hand  to  a  tree  that  was  above  his  head  on  the  river  bank ;  and 
Menoeceus,  a  Greek,  dealt  him  a  sword-stroke,  so  that  he  left 
the  hand  clinging  to  the  tree,  and  he  fell  into  the  river  forth- 
with. Moreover  Hypseus,  a  Theban,  dealt  Tages,  a  Greek  (sic), 
a  spear-thrust  so  that  his  skin  was  full  of  open  wounds  at  the 
bottom  of  the  river.  And  Agenor  his  brother  proceeded  to  raise 
him  up  with  him,  and  as  he  was  unable  to  carry  him,  he  let 
himself  be  drowned  along  with  him.  And  also  Capetus,  a  Theban, 
fell  there  into  the  whirlpool  that  was  nigh,  and  he  was  drowned 
in  it.  Now  though  death  was  the  end  of  each  of  those  heroes, 
their  fates  were  various,  for  there  the  spear  of  Mycalesius  (sic), 
a  Theban,  in  its  course  down  the  stream  collided  with  Agyrtes, 
a  Greek,  and  left  him  lifeless. 

Now,  there  was  wounded  the  bright-flanked  mare  of  Tydeus, 
which  was  under  Hippomedon,  so  that  she  was  restively  madly 
throwing  him  off.  And  he  wondered  at  that,  for  he  did  not 
know  what  ailed  her,  till  he  saw  the  spear  standing  out  from 
her.  And  when  he  saw  that,  he  leaped  off  her,  and  plucked  the 
229 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  230*  34 

coicer  miledh  so  do  maithibh  na  (p.  230  /3)  Tiauanda  les  don    ,*  ' 

3555  ruathar  sin  .i.   Nomius  neimhnech,  -j  Mimas  mileta,  -j  Lucus 
luathechtach,  -j  Leceis  lanchalma,  -j  Teius  mac  Teisfis.    Z£i  tuc  291 
maithem  n-anacuil  do  mac  ele  Teisfis  .i.  Fanenus,  -j  is  ed  roraid 
ris :  "  Eiridh,  a  ghille,"  ar  se,  "  do  Teib,  -]  innis  innti  mar  dodi- 
gail   misi  Tit  ar  na  Tiabanda,   -j   is   maith   Kum-sa  cuirp  na 

356oTiabanda  do  bheth  fo  torthraib1  muiridibh  can  ithi  can  aite 
n-adnacail    acu    amal    corp    taebhgel    Tit    can   onoir    adnacail  300 
d'  fhaghbail."    Et  ar  sin  rogab  Ipimedon  co  dur  d^sachtach 
comach  claidim  ar  na  Tiabandaib,  co  rrotoitsit  na  trenfhir-si  da 
laim   .i.   Theron2  trenmileta,   -)   Gian   garbarmach,  -j    Eriginus 

3565  airdechtach,  -j  Eris  ergalach,  -j  Cretis  cosnamach.     Siiamaighi  306 
sarcalma  in  fer  sin,  -j   tuc  urchur  do  tsleig  dochum  Arsolais 
ftrcalmai  antan  bai  ac  snam  darin  sruth  dochum  a  muintire, 
cor-facaibh  can  anmain.    Cia  tra  dochuimnighfed  eachta  Ipi- 
medoin  ar  na  Tiabandaib  isin  lo  sin  acht  mad  ar  imadh  fisidh 

357ofireolach  no  comachtach  cianaesta  senchasa  ? 

As  andsin  dono  rogab  dalb   aisi  beodachta  aenmacaem   do 
Tiabandaib  na  facaidh  cath  riam  roime  .i.  Crenes  mac  Fuinn 

(X, 

-|  Nimpa3  .i.  Ismen  dei  in  m^ra  no  an  srotha  sin  a  mathair,  *j 
tainic  dochum  an  catha.    Ba  suaithnich  solusta  iter  na  sluaghaibh 

3575  an  gille  sin,  uair  is  amlaidh  rouai  •]  slegh  coimremar  uasta  -j  332 
claidem  slipta  saineamail  'na  laim,  -j  sciath  oirderc  ilbreachtach 
co  ndelbaibh  imdhaibh  hecsamlaib  innti  for  a  muin.    Et  tainic 
fon  samla  sin  dochum  Ipimedom,  *]  rouai  aga  gressacht  -\  aga 
grennugud  o  ghuth  raor,  -j  atbert :    "  Ni   fethamail  conferthor  340 

3580  risna  feraib-si,"  ar  se,  "  -j  ni  suairc  soola  an  sruth  coemcoiserctha 
dar  th'eis."    Nir-laúair  immorro  Ipimedon  ris-sium  acht  roinn-  343 
saigh  é,  1  roeiridh  an  abhond  ré  aigid,  coma  gabail  ar  lamhaibh 
in  laich  sin  re  la?i6ualadh  na  buinnedha  diana  diluatha  con- 
snaighdis  dar  a  formnaibh  (p.  231)  re  hesaibh  na  hobond.    Et 

3585  cidh  edh  robuail-sium,  -j  roathbuail  Croneis,  co  torchair  é  leis. 

1  Eg..torc/mthraibh  2  Eg.  Therron  3  Eg.  Minpa 

230 


THE  THEBAID 

spear  out  of  her,  and  began  on  foot  to  hew  the  hosts,  till  these 
five  soldiers  of  the  Theban  nobles  fell  by  him  at  that  onrush,  to 
wit,  venomous  Nomius,  warlike  Mimas,  swiftly  puissant  Lichas, 
full-brave  Lycetus,  and  Anthedonius  son  of  Thisbaeus  (sic). 
And  he  gave  quarter  to  another  son  of  Thespiades,  to  wit, 
Panemus,  and  this  is  what  he  said  to  him :  "  Arise,  O  lad,  and 
go  to  Thebes,"  said  he,  "  and  tell  therein  how  I  have  avenged 
Tydeus  on  the  Thebans.  And  it  is  my  wish  that  the  bodies  of 
the  Thebans  should  lie  under  sea-monsters  without  being  eaten 
and  having  no  place  of  sepulture,  like  the  white-sided  body  of 
Tydeus  without  the  honour  of  finding  sepulture."  And  thereupon 
Hippomedon  began  hardly  and  madly  a  sword-breaking  on  the 
Thebans,  so  that  these  champions  fell  by  his  hand,  to  wit,  strong 
warlike  Theron,  rough-weaponed  Gyas,  highly  puissant  Erginus, 
very  valiant  Herses,  and  victorious  Cretheus.  A  very  bold 
swimmer  was  that  man ;  and  when  he  was  swimming  across  the 
stream  to  his  people  he  made  a  spear-cast  at  Pharsalus,  and 
left  him  lifeless.  But  who  could  remember  the  deeds  of  Hippo- 
medon against  the  Thebans  that  day  save  for  many  a  skilful 
wizard  or  aged  magician  of  history  ? 

It  is  there  too  that  a  false  notion  of  maturity  and  vigour 
seized  a  Theban  youth  who  had  never  seen  a  battle  before,  to 
wit,  Crenaeus,  son  of  Faunus  and  a  Nymph,  to  wit,  Ismenis, 
a  goddess  of  the  sea  or  of  that  stream.  She  was  his  mother ; 
and  he  came  unto  the  battle.  Distinguished  and  splendid 
among  the  hosts  was  that  lad,  for  thus  was  he  with  a  very  thick 
spear  above  him,  and  a  polished  excellent  sword  in  his  hand, 
a  conspicuous  much  variegated  shield  with  many  diverse  en- 
gravings upon  it  on  his  back.  And  he  came  in  that  guise 
unto  Hippomedon,  and  began  urging  and  challenging  him  with 
a  loud  voice,  and  he  said:  "Not  quietly  does  it  pour  against 
these  grasses,"  said  he,  "  and  not  pleasant  easily  drunk  is  the 
fine  consecrated  stream  behind  thee."  Hippomedon,  however,  did 
not  speak  to  him,  but  assailed  him ;  and  the  river  rose  against 
Hippomedon  so  that  the  swift  and  rapid  rushings  which  were 
creeping  over  his  shoulders  owing  to  the  tumblings  of  the  river 
restrained  that  hero  from  dealing  a  full  blow.  Nevertheless  he 
struck  Crenaeus,  and  struck  again,  so  that  Crenaeus  fell  by  him. 
231 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  231a  3 

Adclos  immorro  don  mathir  in  mic  an  gnim  sin,  7  tainic  co   IX 
denmnedach  dasachtach,  7  a  folt1  scailti  fo  cend  7  isi  ac  dluighi  351 
a  hetaig  -j  ac  bualadh  a  hochta  -j  ac  sirgairra  7  ag  cathgairm  a- 
mic,  7  ge  douai,  ni  fuair.    Acht  chena  rohincoiscedh  di-se  a  mac 

3590  do  beth  an  bail  a  teit  sruth  Ismen  isin  muir  a  mach,  -j  tainic  co  359 
himluaimnech  opond  roimpi  no  co  riacht  conici  an  bail  a  mboi. 
Et  o  rainic,  rochuir  a  cenn  fon  sruth,  -j  rouai  aca  iarraidh  iter  na 
corpaibh  diclethi  dichennta  rouatar  isin  abhonn,  no  co  fuair  é,  -j  6 
dofuair,  rotocaibh  le  co  buidh  banamail,  no  co  ranic  an  bruach,  *j 

3595  roleic  uaithi  arin  fer  fothremail,  7  roglan  a  corp  -j  a  chrechta,  7  374 
rouai  ac  toirsi  uas  a  cinn,  -j  is  ed  roraidh  :  "  Olc,"  ar  si,  "  dot  376 
shenathir-se,  na  dei  uasai/  do  marbad  do  lecudh,  a  mic,  -j  bat 
fochlachan  for  a  lama  o  cianaibh  antan  dochuaidis  uaim,  -j  madh  382 
anois,  immorro,  is  garbjgne  do  ghnuisi  7  is  tretholl  do  thaebh." 

3600  Et  rouai  ag  gresacht  a  athar  Ismen  dochum  Ipomedoin  do  digail 
an  gnima  sin  fair,  7  roraidh :  "  Is  tairpthech  adrasta  Ipomedon,"  395 
ar  si,  "  7  is  tiugha  trebdorchai  tonna  srotha  Ismen  re  fuil  -j  re 
fadhbha  na  Tiabanda  do  righruathar  an  righ  sin.    Et  tar-sa,  a 
Ismen,"  ar  si,  "  co  ndernam  adhnacul  uasal  andso  dot  ua  .i.  do  398 

3605  mmo  mac  so." 

Et  o  docuala  Ismen  sin,  rosiacht  co  toirsech  teindesnach  da 
inndsaighid  é,  7  is  ed  roraid  :  "Ni  huasal  an  onoir  dam  o  cenn  421 
na  dei  .i.  o  Ioip,  ára  aidhble  do  chur  fon  sruth  coemcoisrectha, 
■j  is  mór  do  dheibh  coema  cumachta  rohoiledh  foa  bruach,  ge 

36iorolinadh  do  chorpaibh.    Et,  a  Ipomedoin,"  ar  se,  "  masa  dei  misi, 
ni  ba  [fjhecht  can  aighfi  duit  an  macaem  so  do  mar-(p.  231  /5)-  444 
badh  duit,  7  robo  cumachtach  7  robad  comaidhem  let  rochtain  co 
muighibh  Megene  ar  marbad  m'  ua-sa  7  can  a  digail  fort." 

Et  is  cuma  doraidh-sium  sin  7  rotinóil  7  rotimsaigh  srotha  7  446 

3615  esa  -j  aibhne  na  Tiabanda  co  sruth  nlsmén,  7  roeirigh  leosum 
tuile  srotha  Isme?t  dar  bruachaibh  -j  dar  bordaibh,  cuma  locha 

1  Eg.  fholt 

232 


THE  THEBAID 

That  deed,  however,  was  heard  of  by  the  boy's  mother,  and 
she  came  hastily  and  madly  with  her  hair  scattered  about  her 
head,  while  she  rent  her  raiment,  beat  her  breast,  and  ever 
called  and  shouted  for  her  son.  And  though  she  did,  she  found 
him  not.  Nevertheless  it  was  signified  to  her  that  her  son  was 
where  the  stream  Ismenos  goes  out  into  the  sea,  and  she  came 
forward  fluttering  about  quickly  till  she  reached  the  place 
"where  he  was.    And  when  she  arrived,  she  put  her  head  under 


the  stream,  and  continued  seeking  him  among  the~headless 
bodies  that  lay  in  the  river,  till  she  found  him ;  and  when  she 
had  found  him,  she  fondly  and  womanlike  raised  him  with 
her  till  she  reached  the  bank,  and  laid  him  down  upon  the 
bosky  grass,  and  cleansed  his  body  and  his  wounds,  and  kept 
sorrowing  over  him,  and  this  is  what  she  said :  "  It  was  evil  of 
thy  grandfather  to  allow  the  noble  gods  to  kill  thee,  my  son, 
seeing  thou  wert  a  young  pupil  in  their  hands  a  short  time  ago 
when  thou  wentest  from  me ;  and  as  it  is  now,  however,  thy 
face  has  a  stern  aspect,  and  there  is  a  hole  through  thy  side." 
And  she  was  stirring  up  her  father  Ismenos  against  Hippomedon 
in  order  to  avenge  that  deed  upon  him,  and  she  said:  "Impetuous 
now  is  Hippomedon,"  said  she,  "  and  thick  and  dark-sided  are 
the  waves  of  the  stream  of  Ismenos  with  the  blood  and  the 
spoils  of  the  Thebans  from  the  royal  rush  of  that  king.  And 
come  thou,  O  Ismenos,"  said  she,  ''  that  we  may  make  a  noble 
grave  here  for  thy  grandson,  to  wit,  for  this  my  son."  And  when 
Ismenos  heard  that,  he  came  sadly  and  hastily  towards  her,  and 
this  is  what  he  said :  "  Not  noble  is  the  honour  for  me  from  the 
head  of  the  gods,  to  wit,  from  Jove,  to  put  huge  slaughters 
under  the  consecrated  stream,  seeing  that  many  fair  and  powerful 
gods  have  been  reared  along  its  bank,  albeit  it  is  filled  with 
bodies.  And  Hippomedon,"  said  he,  "  if  I  am  a  god,  it  will  not 
be  a  deed  of  battle  unavenged  on  thee  that  this  youth  was  slain 
by  thee;  and  it  were  a  mighty  thing  and  it  were  a  boast  for 
thee  to  reach  the  plains  of  Mycenae,  after  slaying  my  grandson, 
and  without  his  being  avenged  on  thee." 

And  no  sooner  had  he  said  that  than  the  streams,  falls,  and 
rivers  of  the  Thebans  collected  and  gathered  to  the  stream  of 
Ismenos,  and  with  them  rose  the  flood  of  the  stream  of  Ismenos 

233 


TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  231b  7 


linnti  landoimne  na  hinacla1  tirma  tartmora  nach  raibhi  1 


:Theb. 
x 


riam  roime  ann  nach  ua  comnesa  do  Ipomedon,  -]  rob  ingnath 
leis  usci  na  habann  ag  eirghi  uime  do  each  taibh  -j  do  each  leth.  458 

3620  Et  roeiridh  ainmfine  adhual  mór  andsin  a  sruth  Ismen,  co  rrobris 
a  buird  -j  a  bruacha  co  rrocumscaigi  a  cairci  cendgarbha  as  a 
n-aitibh  ~\  as  a  n-inadaibh.  Imsnini  a  mac  samla  sin  ni  fuair 
Ipomedon  riam  roime,  uair  is  ed  tainic  a  n-aige  -j  a  n-ardáe  ant 
srotha  co  rochuired  uadha  na  cairci  commora  da  uillibh  -j  da 

3625  gluinibh,  -]  is  ed  asbert :  "  A  Ismen,"  ar  sé,  "  can  as  tainic  ditsa  476 
iter  cumachta  mar  so  do  beth  agut  .i.  mo  thraetha[d]-sa  agut  ?  " 
Et  o  roraidh-sium  sin,  roleic  Ismen  railci  romóra  re  trethan  na  481 
tonn  da  innsaigidh  co  rrotuaircsit  -j  co  rotrenbuailsit  co  minic 
a  ucht  -j  a  urbruinne.    Et  6  nar-fael-sam  trumma  -j  tuinnsim  na 

3630  ralec  romór  sin  -\  treisi  ant  srotha  aca  tuarcain,  tuc  a  druimm 
riu,  -j  roleic  risin  sruth  é.   Et  is  cuma  co  mbuailtis  buinnetha 
ruadha  robarta  int  srotha  trenadhbail  Ipomedon,  -\  na  cetha  do 
cairgibh  comuscdha  -\  do  chruaidharmaibh  dotelcdis  Tiabanda  489 
do  thir  dó.    Ni  ntir-sium  tra  cidh  do  dhenum,  -\  ni  fhuair  dona 

3635  sluagaibh  nech  rolamad  buain  ris,  cer-ua  ferrdi  leis  bás  d'  fagbail. 

As  andsin,  immorro,  doui  bile  dossach  da  thalmain  os  bruachaib  492 
ant  srotha,  1  rosin-sium  an  laim  ndeis  cuige,  -j  rogab  Ian  a  glaici 
do  barr  an  bile,  -j  rotoit  an  bile  as  an  hwiad  *j  as  a  fremaibh 
(p.   232)   re    truma   an    miled    aca    tarraing,   coma   saobheoire 

3640  sirdomain  a  inudh  da  eis,  -j  rosluiced  Ipomedon  isin  saobheoire 
sin.    Et  antan  consilldis  na  srotha  an  sarlsech  sin,  is  ed  roraidh : 
"As  truagh  dixit,  a  Mairt,  a  dei  in  catha,  bás  mar  so  do  imirt  506 
ormsa,  mar  dodhenta  ar  midlsech.    Et  nir  cusindiu  rim  a  mac 
a  samla."      <*  /Wv*£  $>o*JU.         L^f.  «.  **<\co.-  &x~^?j 

3645  Conadh  i  oighidh  Ipomedoin  gruadsolais  na  Mecine  isin  glan 
Greic  sin. 

O  'dchuala  immorro  Iunand  ilc/^'othach  sin,  tainic  dochom  510 
Ioib,  -j   adbert  fris :    "  Is  lor  leici  na  Gregaigh  do  lot,"  ar  si, 

1  Eg.  hinata 
234 


THE  THEBAID 

over  banks  and  bounds,  so  that  the  dry  and  thirsty  places  in 
which  water  had  never  been  before,  which  were  not  very  near 
Hippomedon,  were  swollen  very  deep  lochs.  And  he  wondered 
that  the  water  of  the  river  should  rise  about  him  on  every  side 
and  on  every  quarter.  And  a  vast  and  great  storm  arose  there 
in  the  stream  of  Ismenos,  and  broke  its  bounds  and  its  banks, 
and  tumbled  its  rough-headed  rocks  out  of  their  places  and 
positions.  Anxiety  like  that  Hippomedon  never  felt  before,  for  to 
such  an  extent  came  the  rush  and  the  heightening  of  the  stream 
that  it  hurled  the  huge  rocks  at  his  elbows  and  his  knees,  and 
this  is  what  he  said:  "O  Ismenos,"  said  he,  "whence  art  thou 
able  to  have  such  power,  to  wit,  that  I  should  be  overwhelmed 
by  thee  ? "  And  when  he  had  said  that,  Ismenos  let  huge  oaks 
down  with  the  storm  of  the  wTaves  towards  him,  so  that  they 
often  beat  and  starkly  struck  his  breast  and  his  bosom.  And 
since  he  could  not  bear  the  weight  and  the  crushing  of  those 
very  great  oaks,  and  the  strength  of  the  stream  beating  against 
him,  he  turned  his  back  to  them,  and  let  himself  go  with  the 
stream.  And  equally  did  the  red  rushing  currents  of  the  strong 
huge  stream  continue  to  strike  Hippomedon,  and  the  showers 
of  mixed  stones  and  hard  weapons  which  the  Thebans  threw  at 
him  from  land.  He  knew  not,  indeed,  what  to  do ;  and  of  the 
hosts  he  found  none  who  would  dare  touch  him,  though  he  pre- 
ferred to  die. 

There,  however,  grew  a  bushy  old  tree  out  of  the  earth  above 
the  banks  of  the  stream,  and  he  stretched  out  his  right  hand 
towards  it,  and  seized  a  handful  of  the  tree- top;  and  the  tree  fell 
from  the  foot  and  from  the  roots  owing  to  the  weight  of  the 
soldier  dragging  it,  so  that  its  place  after  it  was  a  very  deep 
whirlpool,  and  Hippomedon  was  swallowed  up  in  that  whirl- 
pool. And  when  the  streams  were  looking  down  upon  that  noble 
hero,  this  is  what  he  said :  "  Woe  to  thee,  O  Mars,  god  of  battle, 
that  thou  dost  inflict  a  death  like  this  on  me,  as  might  be  done 
upon  a  coward.    And  till  to-day  the  like  was  not  laid  to  me." 

So  that  that  is  the  fate  of  bright-cheeked  Hippomedon  of 
Mycenae  in  Greece  proper. 

But  when  beauteous  Juno  heard  that,  she  came  unto  Jove, 
and  said  to  him :  "  Sufficiently  dost  thou  allow  the  Greeks  to 

235 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  232a  9 

"  uair  romarbad  Tit  fere  sárugnd  Menerua,  .-j  fuair  Aimpiaraus   ,'^  ' 

3650  a  oighidh  triana  indeoiZ  Apaill,  1  saorthar  dom-sa  Ipomedon, 
uair  is  do  gasraidh  Grec  a  bunadhcenel,  -j  iss  dam-sa  roidhbradh 
a  inbreth  les  do  chrud  a  crichi  co  a  tir  isin  cathrig  a  Mbecine. 
Et  caidhi  in  gellad  dorignis,  co  leicfedha  na  Gregaigh  d'adhlucud 
iartain,  -j  corp  Ipomedoin  a  n-abaind  a  n-usci  ? "    0  'dcuala  lob  520 

3655  sin,  rouai  ac  fegadh  na  Teue  uadhai,  -\  rotraigh  -j  rotoirinn  tuile 
srotha  Ismén,  coma  follus  Ipomedon  isin  ait  a  raibhi  an».    0 
doconncatar   na   Tiabanda   é    fon    samla   sin,    tucsat   frais   do  527 
shleghaibh  -j  do  saighdibh  cuigi,  coma  coill  comdluith  a  corp 
dibh,  1  cer-ua  lanmarb  letartai  in  lsech  sin,  nir-lam  leech  do 

3660  Tiabandaib  a  fodhuadh  fo  cloidem  na  fo  cathbarr,  cein  no  co  540 
rainic  Ipseus,  mac  Asopais,  da  innsaigidh,  cor-ben  a  arm  uadh, 
-j  rouai  ac   buadhnas  -j   ac  bocasaich  sechnon  ant  sluaigh,  -j 
cloidem  ruithnech  in  ri[g]  aili1  ina  laim  -\  a  cathbarr  uo  cenn. 
"  Ata  sunn,"  ar  se,  "  coscarach  Ipomedon,  -\  rouai  ac  digail  Tit  544 

3665  ar  na  Tiabandaib.  Rodithaigit  -j  rodianscailit2  a  sruth  Ismen 
iad,"  co  madh  xxm  righ  romarbh  Ipomedon  enechsolus  don 
ruathar  sin  ac  digail  Thit  ar  na  Tiabandaib  ;  -j  ni  cuimnighit 
scribhinne  ar  cheim  na  sluaghu  romarbh  ann. 

Ba  galar  tromm  tra  j'isin  righ  morinenmnach  ria  Capaneus  546 

3670  mac  Tairsis  do  Grecaib  an  commaidhem  sin  do  cloisdeacht ; 
-j  robocbertaigh  int  sleg  'na  laimh,  -j  is  ed  roraidh  :  "  Ba  coir 
duit,  a  lam,"  ar  sé,  "  cungnam  cathaigthi  lemsa  (p.  232  /3),  uair 
is  iniud  ata  mo  tairisi  -j  ni  ha  caruit  cumachtaig  ele."  Rothelc 
an   ga^cedach  sin  an  gius  ngarbhsnoighthe  rouai    na  laim,  -j 

3675  roseol  do  innsaig[id]  Ipseuis,  cor-dianbris  a  druim  ar  scoltad  a 
sceith  -j  ar  letradh  a  luirigh,  coma  samalta  ri  tor  coimnert 
chichi  arna  cruaidhbrisedh  traethaá  in  trenfir  no  in  miledh  sin 
ac  toitim,  1  is  ed  roraidh  Capaneus :  "  Fegh  let,"  ar  se,  "  misi 
rot-marbh,  -j  is  adhuar  onorach  dot  hainm  misi  do  d'  marbad."  559 

3680  Cuma  atbert-sium  sin  -\  doben  a  claidem  -]  cathbarr  Ipomedoin 

1  Eg.  i»rii  =  in  ri  aili  2  Eg.  rodianscailidh 

236 


THE  THEBAID 

be  wounded,"  said  she,  "for  Tydeus  was  slain  through  Minerva's 
violence, and  Amphiaraus  met  his  fate  through  Apollo's  devices; 
and  let  Hippomedon  be  spared  to  me  unto  his  land  in  the  city 
of  Mycenae,  for  he  is  a  Greek  soldier  by  descent,  and  to  me 
was  sacrificed  what  he  brought  with  him  of  the  cattle  of  his 
territory.  And  where  is  the  promise  thou  didst  make  that  thou 
wouldest  allow  the  Greeks  to  be  buried  afterwards,  Hippomedon's 
body  being  in  a  river  in  water  ? "  When  Jove  heard  that,  he 
remained  looking  at  distant  Thebes;  and  the  flood  of  the  stream 
of  Ismenos  ebbed  and  abated,  so  that  Hippomedon  was  visible 
in  the  place  wherein  he  lay.  When  the  Thebans  saw  him  in 
that  guise,  they  hurled  a  shower  of  spears  and  arrows  at  him, 
so  that  his  body  was  a  thick  wood  of  them ;  and  though  that 
hero  was  half-dead  and  mangled,  no  Theban  hero  dared  to  spoil 
him  of  sword  or  helmet,  till  Hypseus,  son  of  Asopus,  came  to 
him  and  struck  his  armour  from  him  and  was  exulting  and 
boasting  throughout  the  host  with  the  other  king's  gleaming 
sword  in  his  hand  and  his  helmet  on  his  head.  "  Here,"  said  he, 
"  is  victorious  Hippomedon.  And  he  was  avenging  Tydeus  on 
the  Thebans.  They  were  destroyed  and  scattered  in  the  stream 
of  Ismenos,"  so  that  bright-cheeked  Hippomedon  slew  twenty- 
three  kings  at  that  onslaught  in  avenging  Tydeus  on  the 
Thebans ;  and  records  in  general  do  not  commemorate  the  hosts 
he  slew  there. 

Now  deeply  grieved  was  the  high-spirited  king  Capaneus,  son 
of  Tairsis  (sic),  a  Greek,  to  hear  that  boasting ;  and  he  shook 
and  brandished  the  spear  in  his  hand,  and  this  is  what  he  said: 
"It  were  just  for  thee,  O  hand,"  said  he,  "to  assist  me  in  fighting, 
for  in  thee  is  my  confidence  and  not  in  any  other  powerful 
friend."  That  hero  threw  the  rough  snedded  fir  that  was  in 
his  hand,  and  he  directed  it  ^towards  Hypseus,  so  that  it 
quickly  broke  his  back  after  splitting  his  shield  and  mangling 
his  cuirass,  so  that  like  a  compact  stone  tower  severely  broken 
was  the  overthrow  of  that  champion  or  soldier  as  he  fell.  And 
this  is  what  Capaneus  said:  "Look  thou,"  said  he,  "it  is  I  that 
have  slain  thee.  And  my  slaying  thee  is  a  cause  of  honour  to 
thy  name."  No  sooner  had  he  said  that  than  he  plucked 
Hippomedon's   sword   and   helmet   from    him,   and    therewith 

237 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  232b  10 

de,  -j  roben  a  claidhem  fein  leis  de,  -j  rochuir  air  Ipomedon  iat   ^  ' 
am  bail  a  mboi  'na  luighi,  7  is  ed  roraid  ris  :  "  Ac  so,  a  ri,  a 
Ipomedoin,  [t]h'  airm  fen  duit,  -j  airm  do  namat  foraon  friu,  -j  562 
loiscfidhtir  lind  leth  ar  leth  iat  antan  idhbertar  tu  dona  deibh." 

3685  Cidh  tra  acht  rouoi  crich  coscorach  an  catha  sin  co  cunntabartach 
iter  na  Tiabanda  7  na  Greic. 

Uair  ua   hadhbiti  garbh   nuallgubha  na    nGrec   ac   cainedh  570 
Ipomedoin,  7  nir  lugha  toirsi  na  Tiabanda  ac  cainedh  Ipseuis. 
Cein  tra  rouatar-sam  amlaidh  sin,  as  ann  dochuaidh  Athalanta 

3Ó9omathair  Partanapeuis  VII  righa  dochuadar  do  thogail  Teue  co 
sruth  Latain  do  dhenurn  idhbarta  do  Dean  .i.  banndei  na 
selcairechta  i  seic,  7  ua  selcaire  amra  a  mac-si  dono  Partanapeus, 
-]  is  ed  uadera  disi  na  hidhbarta  sin  do  dhenurn  .i.  taidhbhsedha 
adhfhuathmara  adcidh  'san  oidhchi  .1.  fadhbh  -j  arm  a  rm'c  7  a 

3695  muntire  d'  fhaiscin  na  fiadnaisi,  -j  can  a  beth  etarru,-]  adconnairc  578 
fós  a  n-aislingi  dair  dosach  dighuinn  docoisercadh  do  Dean,  a  585 
racuired  a  harmu  antan  uo  scith  i  a  haithle  a  sealca,  a  barr  7  a 
gega  do  toitim  ri  tenntaibh  taluan,  7  rofiarfaid-si  cidh  rotesc  an 
crann.    Rofhrecair  Menadhnas  hi  .i.  bansacart  do  muintir  Baich,  598 

3700  dei  fortochta  Tiabanda  in  Baich  sin.  Rogabh  hecla  -j  adhfhuath 
Athalanta  don  gnim  sin,  7  roeirigh  (p.  233)  co  moch  arnamaireach 
d'  fhaicsin  an  chroinn  sin,  7  atconnairc  a  barr  fair.  Tainic  co 
trie  tindesnach  co  tempul  Dean  ar  na  fothracud  fo  tri  a  sruth 
Lathain,  7   rouai  ag  edarguidhi   Dean,   7   is  ed   roraidh :    "  A 

3705  bainndei,"  ar  si,  "a  Dean,  is  am  banselcairi-si  bunaidh  duit,  7  is  616 
duit  roidhbrais  mo  mhac  .i.  Partanapeus,  7  guidim-si  tusa  fon 
mac  sin  do  tabairt  co  coscrach,  7  cipindus  bes  trá  a  torrachtain  624 
hecin  cugum,  co  facar  e.    Et  innis  dam  in  at  firu  na  fisi  atcon- 
narc  ?  7  madh  firu,  tabhair  bas  sochraid  do  mo  mhac,  7  cuma63i 

37iotaisci  fis  mo  bais-[s]i  cuigi-sium."  635 

Atconnairc-si  altoir  Dean,  comdis  flinch  iad  do  deraib,  -|  rouai 
aga  [n]glanadh. 

O   'dconnairc,  immorro,  in  baindei  Dean  sin,   tainic  rompi  637 
dochum  na  Téue  dar  sleib  Menail  7  dar  mullach  tsleibi  Parnars, 
238 


THE  THEBAID 

plucked  his  own  sword  from  himself  and  placed  them  on  Hippo- 
medon  where  he  was  lying,  and  said  to  him:  "  Here,  O  king 
Hippomedon,  are  thine  own  arms  for  thee,  and  the  arms  of 
thine  enemies  along  with  them,  and  they  will  be  burnt  by  us 
side  by  side,  when  thou  shalt  be  sacrificed  to  the  gods."  Yet  a 
victorious  ending  to  that  battle  hung  doubtfully  between  the 
Thebans  and  the  Greeks. 

For  loud  and  rough  were  the  mourning  cries  of  the  Greeks 
bewailing  Hippomedon,  and  no  less  was  the  sorrow  of  the 
Thebans  bewailing  Hypseus.  Nowwhilst  they  were  thus  engaged, 
Atalanta,  mother  of  Parthenopaeus,  went,  with  the  seven  kings 
that  had  gone  to  sack  Thebes,  to  the  river  Ladon  to  offer  sacrifices 
to  Diana,  to  wit,  she  is  the  goddess  of  hunting ;  and  her  son 
Parthenopaeus  was  a  famous  hunter  also,  and  this  was  her  reason 
for  offering  those  sacrifices,  to  vát,  horrible  visions'  which  she 
used  to  see  in  the  night,  to  wit,  the  spoils  and  the  weapons  of 
her  son  and  his  following  seen  in  her  presence,  and  without  his 
being  among  them.  And  she  saw  also  in  a  vision  a  spreading 
thick  oak  which  was  consecrated  to  Diana  whereon  she  used  to 
place  her  weapons  when  she  was  tired  after  her  hunting,  with 
its  crop  and  branches  falling  into  earth's  fastnesses;  and  she 
asked  what  had  lopped  the  tree.  Maenas  answered  her,  to  wit, 
3,  priestess  of  the  folk  of  Bacchus,  a  god  assisting  Thebans  was 
that  Bacchus.  Fear  and  terror  seized  Atalanta  at  that  deed, 
and  she  r.rose  early  on  the  morrow  to  see  that  tree,  and  she  saw 
its  crop  upon  it.  She  came  swiftly  in  haste  to  the  temple  of 
Diana  after  bathing  thrice  in  the  river  Ladon,  and  she  was 
interceding  with  Diana  and  this  is  what  she  said:  "O  goddess, 
Diana,"  said  she,  "a  huntress  am  I  of  thy  stock,  and  to  thee  I  have 
sacrificed  my  son,  to  wit,  Parthenopaeus  ;  and  I  beseech  thee  for 
that  son  to  send  him  triumphantly ;  and  however  his  coming  to 
me  may  be,  that  I  may  see  him.  And,  tell  me,  are  the  visions 
I  have  seen  true  ?  And  if  they  be,  grant  my  son  an  honourable 
death,  and  that  knowledge  of  my  death  may  reach  him  before." 

She  saw  Diana's  altars,  that  they  were  wet  with  tears,  and 
she  was  cleansing  them. 

When  the  goddess  Diana  saw  that,  however,  she  advanced 
to  Thebes  over  mount   Maenalos  and  over  the  top  of  mount 

239 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  233a  16 

37 1 5  no  co  tarla  Apaill  dei  na  faistine  di,  -j  co  ndebairt  ria :  "  Rofetar-sa   ,£  * 
do  toisc,  a  ingen,"  ar  sé,  "  .i.  do  sserud  Partanapeuis  a  cath  na  650 
Teue  ar  na  radha  da  mathair  rit.    Acht  chena  is  diraain  duit-si 
sin,  uair  tainic  crich  tsaogail  an  gille  sin,  -7  ni  fetann  tiachtain 
ri  toicthi.    Et  in  faicci  misi  co  toirsech  d'  eis  in   righsagairt 

3720  Aimpiaruis,    -\    nir-ua    tnalaing    me1    a   adnacul  ? "    Rofrecair 
Dean,  1  is  ed  roraidh :  "  Uair  is  cinnti,"  ar  si,  "  is  cóir  damsa  663 
fortachta  arin  fer  sin  -j  a  aife  ar  inti  ros-muirfe."    Et  tuc  each 
dibh  poic  da  ceiliu,  -j  tainic  Dean  rompi  co  Teibh,  -j  conici  an 
inadh  ar-marbh-si  chinn  Neobe  fecht  riam  roime.  682 

3725  Irathusa  na  nGrec  -]  naTiabanda,  immorro,  nir-gabh  confadh 
catha  a  mac  samla  sin  riam  roime  iat,  uair  ua  hadhbul  tairpthige 
1  tindenus  na  Tiabanda  do  digail  Ipseuis  ar  na  Grecaigh.  Ba 
mó  immorro  fich  7  fere  na  ngasraid  nGrec  do  dhigail  Ipomedoin 
arna  Tiabandaib,  coma,  tren  cridheda  can  teiched  caich  o  cheliu 

3730  dibh. 

Is  andsin  rogres  Partanapeus,  ri  óc  na  hArcaide,  a  ech  dian  683 
dimsach   dasachtach   iter  na  sluagaibh.    Et  is   amlaidh  douai 
(p.  233  /3)  int  ech  -j  croicenn  tiugh  tigri  uimpi  a  comardha 
coscair.    Ba  he  eirred  in  righ  sin  ui  fuirre  .i.  lene  coem  cor- 

3735cairglan  ar  na  deghdathad  a  tenta,  ba  lia,  -7  inar  orsnaith  ilbrec 
re  cnis  doroine  a  mathair  dó  re  techt  don  turus  sin,  *j  cris  socair 
seimidlte  tairis  a  muigh  a  n-echtair  ar  na  ilecar  do  lecaib 
loghmora,  -\  sciath  capradhach  cromm  air,  -j  cloidim  trom 
trenbuillec/i  'na  laim.    Cimus  alaind  ordha  a[c]  comdrud  a  edaig 

3740  uime  na  gabad  luth  láma  do,  soighedbolc  suaichnich  sarechtach,  696 
-j  cathbarr  slemow  slabradhach  fo  cenn,  -j  rochuir-sium  de  é,  -j 
roleic  a  trilis  taidhlig2  tromcais  ri  tincur  na  greine,  coma  sochain 
ri  sillad  do  each  duine  a  taithnemh  na  trillsi  sin  ua  cenn.    Et 
ua  ferr  de  delbh  an  gille  sin  in  fiuchadh  ferci  dus-lainic  do  isin  705 

3745  uair  sin.    Et  ge  rrouai-sium  amlaidh  sin,  tucsat  na  Tiabanda 
faill  frithailme  air.    Roleicsit  inudh  lathrech  do  ar  a  <5ici  -j  ar  707 
a  anarsaidheacht3  leo.    Rouai-sium  immorro  co  dur  dasachtach 

3  Eg.  arsaigheacht 


1  Eg.  mhe                     2  Eg.  taighlig 

24O 

fij- 

oLwiScvíZ      j2-   <*/CU*vi5<a-c&. 

THE  THEBAID 

Parnassus  till  Apollo,  god  of  prophecy,  met  her,  and  said  to  her  : 
"  I  know  thine  errand,  O  girl,"  said  he,  "  to  wit,  to  save  Parthe- 
nopaeus  in  the  war  of  Thebes  after  his  mother  has  told  thee. 
Yet  that  is  vain  for  thee,  for  the  end  of  that  lad's  life  is  come, 
and  he  may  not  go  against  fate.  And  dost  thou  see  me  sad  on 
account  of  the  royal  priest  Amphiaraus,  seeing  I  was  not  able 
to  save  him  ?"  Diana  answered,  and  this  is  what  she  said : 
"Since  it  is  a  certainty,"  said  she,  "it  is  just  for  me  to  succour 
that  man,  and  to  avenge  him  on  the  man  that  slew  him."  And 
each  of  them  kissed  the  other,  and  Diana  proceeded  to  Thebes 
and  to  the  place  where  she  had  slain  Niobe's  children  some  time 
before. 

As  to  the  Greeks  and  the  Thebans,  however,  never  before  had 
a  fury  of  battle  like  that  seized  them,  for  vast  was  the  keen- 
ness and  urgency  of  the  Thebans  to  avenge  Hypseus  on  the 
Greeks.  Greater,  however,  was  the  fury  and  anger  of  the  Greek 
soldiers  to  avenge  Hippomedon  upon  the  Thebans,  so  that  they 
were  stout-hearted,  none  of  them  fleeing  from  their  opponents. 

It  was  then  that  Parthenopaeus,  the  young  king  of  Arcadia, 
urged  his  keen  proud  mad  charger  among  the  hosts.  And  thus 
was  the  horse  with  a  thick  tiger's  skin  about  her  as  a  sign  of 
victory.  This  was  the  dress  of  that  king  that  was  mounted  on  her, 
to  wit,  a  fair  bright-purple  smock,  beautifully  coloured  its  very 
numerous  fastenings  (?),  and  a  gold-woven  much  variegated  tunic 
at  his  skin,  which  his  mother  had  made  for  him  before  going  on 
that  journey,  and  an  easy  smooth  girdle  over  him  without,  with 
many  a  row  of  precious  stones,  and  a  bossy  bent  shield,  and  a 
heavy  strong-smiting  sword  in  his  hand.  A  beautiful  golden 
fringe  pressing  together  his  raiment  about  him  that  would  not 
impede  the  vigorous  use  of  his  arms,  a  noticeable  very  serviceable 
quiver,  a  smooth  chained  helmet  on  his  head.  And  he  doffed  it, 
and  he  loosed  his  bright  heavily  curled  tresses  to  the  influence  of 
the  sun,  and  fair  for  every  man  to  look  upon  was  the  sheen  of  those 
tresses  on  his  head.  And  the  mien  of  that  lad  was  the  better 
of  the  boiling  anger  that  came  upon  him  at  that  time.  And 
though  he  was  thus,  the  Thebans  neglected  attending  on  him. 
They  left  a  place  of  the  battlefield  to  him  owing  to  his  youth 
and  want  of  experience,  as  they  deemed.  On  his  part,  however, 
O.  241  16 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  233b  20 

aca  dianscailiudh  an  dara  fecht  -j  rouai  co  tennjfcomaithmech  ac^ix  ' 
Ca  timsugud  an  fecht  araill.    Rouatar  tra  mná  na  Tiabanda  a 

3750  hinadaib  arda  oirechtais  ac  inolad  -j  ac  measnugud  gnimraid 
in  gille  oig  sin. 

O    'dconnairc    immorro   Dean   eisium    fon  samla   sin,   is  ed7i2 
roraidh:  "Is  truagh  -|  is  doilig  Hum,  a  gille,"  ar  si,  "an  buaidred 
baisi  for-atai,  uair  ni  fetar  ca  furtacht  dober  fort,  -j  rob  usa  duit 

3755  a  beth  ac  seilc  araon  rit  mathair  a  fidhnemedaib  Neim  ina  beth 
a  n-irgail  catha  fon  samlai  sin.  Et  is  tren  gresis  do  mathair  misi 
atrasda  'mat  fortacht."  Et  o  roui-si  ac  an  comradh  sin,  tainic 
neill  diamair  dluith  tairis  co  lormedon  an  catha  dochum  an 
gille,  -j  dobean  a  soighedbholc  amach,  -\  tuc  soighdi  cumdachta 

3760  do  do  na  tabartha  urchur  n-imruille  itir,  -j  rochraith  sug  amro  730 
isi  for  a1  ech  co  na  gebdais  airm  hi. 

Is   andsin    innsaigidh    Partanapeus    uan    samlai    sin   uana  736 
s-(p.  234)-luaghaib,  amal  cuilen  letarthach  leoman  ua  tretaibh 
teithmeacha,  acht  ni  fetar  a  airem  a  dorchratar  do  Tiabandaib 

3765  da  laim  genmótha  a  tamoiw  -j  a  toisigh,  -j  at  e  andso  a  n-anmanna 
daine  dibh  .i.  Corebus  mac  Tanagra  -]    Eirictonius  anriata,  -j  758 
Argus  ard  érérgna,  -j  Lamis  lanalaind,  -j  Lidus  lanchomachtach,  764 
uair  ua  sacart,  -\  Aalan  uasal  arsata  a  Eboia2.    Cidh  tra  acht  ni 
hurchar  n-imroill  tuc,  -j  rosoighedh   re  sail   a  cheile   uaidh,  -] 

377ocuidh  an  duine  rochreitfedh  coma  [a]  haonuolc  no  a  henuogha  772 
doteilcthea  na  saitheda  soighed  dotheilcedh   an   trenfer  sin  ? 
Uair  is  cuma  congoniis  -\  conferdis  uadh  na  frasa  sin  da  culaib 
1  da  aigid  -j  do  each  taibh  de. 

As  andsin  tra  roinnsaighsit  na  Tiabanda  Partanapeus,  uair  777 

3775  nir  miadh  leó  can  a  digail  fair  na  huile  doroine  riu.    Et  is  é 
dotreninnsaigh  dibh  ar  tús  é  .i.  Ampion  do  bunadhceneil  Ioib  778 
mic  talchair  Satuirnn3,  -|  is  ed  roraid  ris :  "A  Partanapeuis,"  ar 
sé,  "is  mór  in  diumus  -j  in  dasachtac^i  rogab  ac  cur  áir  na 
Tiabanda,  uair  nir  miadh  ri  mil  id  no  ri  trenfer  dibh  comlond  rit 

3780  ar  [t]h'  oici  -j  ar  [t]h'  anarsaidhecht4.    Facaibh  in  cath,  -\  imigh  784 
co  hArcait,  -j  dena  cluiche  re  do  comais ;  no  mad  móo  a  clú  let, 

1  Eg.  form  -  Eg.  Eloia  3  Eg.  Satrainni  4  Eg.  -saigh- 

242 


THE  THEBAID 

he  was  hardly  madly  sweeping  them  asunder  at  one  time,  and 
keenly  threateningly  gathering  them  at  another.  Now  the 
women  of  the  Thebans  were  from  high  places  of  assembly 
praising  and  encouraging  the  deeds  of  that  young  lad. 

But  when  Diana  saw  him  in  that  guise,  this  is  what  she 
said  :  "  Sad  and  grievous,  methinks,  O  lad,"  said  she,  "  is  the 
turmoil  of  folly  in  which  thou  art.  For  I  know  not  what  aid  I 
shall  give  thee,  and  it  were  easier  for  thee  to  be  hunting  along 
with  thy  mother  in  the  wooded  groves  of  Nemea  than  to  be  in 
the  strife  of  battle  thus.  And  strongly  has  thy  mother  now 
urged  me  about  aiding  thee."  And  when  she  was  engaged  in  that 
conversation,  mysterious  thick  clouds  came  over  to  the  very 
middle  of  the  battle  unto  the  lad,  and  she  plucked  away  his 
quiver,  and  gave  to  him  well-made  arrows  by  which  no  missing 
shot  at  all  was  made,  and  she  shook  a  wondrous  juice  upon  his 
horse  that  no  weapons  might  harm  her. 

It  was  then  that  Parthenopaeus  in  that  guise  attacked  the 
hosts  as  a  mangling  lions'  whelp  attacks  fleeing  flocks,  but  it 
is  not  possible  to  number  those  Thebans  that  fell  by  his  hand 
besides  their  chiefs  and  leaders.  And  these  are  the  names  of 
some  of  them,  to  wit,  Coroebus  a  son  of  Tanagrae  (sic),  unsub- 
dued Eurytion,  lofty  and  wise  Argus,  full-beautiful  Lamus,  and 
full-powerful  Lygdus  for  he  was  a  priest,  and  noble  veteran 
Aeolus  from  Euboea.  Further  not  a  missing  cast  did  he  send, 
and  they  were  delivered  from  him  at  one  another's  heels.  And 
who  would  have  believed  that  it  was  from  one  quiver  or  from  one 
bow  the  flights  of  arrows  were  hurled  which  that  champion  hurled? 
For  simultaneously  those  showers  of  arrows  would  grievously 
wound  and  pour  forth  from  rear,  front,  and  each  side  of  him. 

Now  at  that  time  the  Thebans  attacked  Parthenopaeus,  for 
they  thought  it  no  honour  not  to  avenge  upon  him  the  ills  he 
had  done  them.  And  the  one  of  them  that  strongly  assailed  him 
first  was  Amphion,  of  the  original  stock  of  Jove,  strong-willed 
son  of  Saturn,  and  this  is  what  he  said  to  him  :  "  Parthenopaeus," 
said  he,  "  great  is  the  pride  and  the  madness  that  have  seized 
thee  in  slaughtering  the  Thebans,  since  it  is  no  honour  for 
soldier  or  champion  of  theirs  to  contend  with  thee  owing  to  thy 
youth  and  inexperience.  Leave  the  battle,  and  go  to  Arcadia, 
and  play  with  thy  coevals ;  or  if  thou  think  it  greater  fame, 
243  16—2 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  234a  22 

dofseithis  linne  isin  cath  so."    O  'dcuala  immorro  Partanapeus   IX  ' 
sin,  doraidh  :  "  Ni  don  cinedh  techmech  Tiabanda  am  mathair 
mná  damsa  itir,"  ar  sé,  "  acht  is  don  cinedh  Athlanta  feramail  792 

3785  Aircedach."    Ni  fuilgid  tra  Ampion  sin  do  cloisdecht,  ~\  dorat  801 
rothrénurchur  do  sleig  dighuinn  dermair  rouai  na  laira  dochum 
Partanapeuis.    O  'dconnairc  Partanapeus  dellrad  na  sleigi  dia 
innsaigid,  roimgaibh  co  hathlum  i,  -j  roleic  ant  sleg  sechai.    Ua 
moidi  fere  Ampion  urchur  n-imroill  do  tabairt  dó.    Et  o  rouatar 

3790  amhlaidh  sin,tainic  Dean  ar  lár  in  catha  d'  foiridhin  Partanapeuis, 
•j  roghabh  delbh  Doreis  do  Grecaib  fuirre,  uair  ua  he-sseic  ua 
hoidi  teglaig  do  Partanapeus,  -j  is  dé  roathain  a  mathair  é  ri 
techt  don  turus  sin,  -\  o  rogab-si  a  dhelbh-sam  fuirri,  is  and 
atbert  ri  Partanapeus  :  "  Is  lór  ar-lenais  do  Tiabandaibh,  a  gille,"  812 

3795  ar  sé,  (p.  234  j3)  "  1  eirigh  imlan  dochum  na  mara  ó  tancais 
d'  enech  na  ndei."  Nir-gabh-sam  amh  cuigi  sin,  -\  is  ed  roraidh  : 
"  A  fhir  cumtha,  a  Doirsis,"  ar  se,  "  leic  dam  co  romarbar  anti 
rom-gonaid  .i.  Ampion,  -\  ni  lenam  na  Tiabanda  ni  bhus  mhó ; 
-j  o  rofseth  Hum  é,  dober  a  ech  -j  a  édach  do  Dean,  -\  dober  a 

3800  soigheduolc  do  mo  mathair." 

Et  ó  roraidh-sium  sin,  dofoillsiged  do  Uenir  banndei  Deana82i 
do  beth  ac  cungnam  ri  Greca,  -j  rogreis  a  lennan  .i.  Mairt  mac 
Ioib,  dei  in  catha,  co  ndechsad  d'  furtacht  na  Tiabanda.   Uair 
doui  Ermione,  ingen  Mairt  -\  Uenir,  senmathair  na  Tiabanda,  -j 

3805  is  de  sin  roleig  in  crodha  cathcumachtach  .i.  Mairt  dochum 
Deana,  -|  ó  rosiacht,  rouai  ace  aithisiugud  na  hingine  co  mur,  -j 
is  ed  doraidh  ria.  "  Ní  commórad  catha  na  irgaile  no  gaiscid  is 
let-sa  do  denum,  a  Dheán,"  ar  sé,  "  acht  soighde  cathalaincZ 
sealca  do  dhiubrucud."    Et  tainig  co  tai  d'  anacul  .i.  Partanapeuis. 

3810  Et  tainic  'na  ndiaidh  sin  Mairt  do  gresacht  na  Tiabanda  a 
cenn  na  nGrec.  Et  is  é  dogres  dibh  ar  tús  .i.  Drias  mac  Arion,  843 
-j  roimir  in  gille  sin  a  gnim  gaiscedach  ar  na  hArcaidechaibh  -j 
ar  hoirechtaibh  ar  chena  rouatar  araon  ri  Partanapeus  a[c]  cur 
in  catha  sin.  Et  ni  tuc  Drias  taisi  na  tess  andsin  ac  sluighi  na 
244 


THE  THEBAID 

thou  wilt  fall  by  us  in  this  battle."  When  Parthenopaeus  heard 
that,  however,  he  said  :  "  Not  of  the  fleeing  Theban  stock  is  my 
lady  mother  at  all,"  said  he,  "  but  of  the  manly  Arcadian  stock 
of  Atalanta."  Now  Amphion  did  not  endure  listening  to  that, 
and  he  delivered  a  very  strong  cast  of  the  thick  huge  spear  that 
was  in  his  hand  at  Parthenopaeus.  When  he  saw  the  shimmer- 
ing of  the  spear  approaching  him,  he  deftly  avoided  it,  and  let 
the  spear  pass  him.  The  anger  of  Amphion  was  the  greater  that 
a  missing  cast  should  be  delivered  by  him.  And  while  they  were 
thus,  Diana  came  to  the  middle  of  the  battle  to  aid  Partheno- 
paeus, and  she  assumed  the  form  of  Dorceus,  a  Greek,  for  he  was 
family  tutor  to  Parthenopaeus,  and  by  Dorceus  did  Parthenopaeus' 
mother  enjoin  him  against  going  on  that  journey.  And  when  she 
had  assumed  his  form,  then  she  said  to  Parthenopaeus:  "  Enough 
of  Thebans  hast  thou  wounded,  lad,"  said  she,  "  and  arise  and  go 
safe  and  sound  unto  the  sea  whence  thou  hast  come,  for  the 
honour  of  the  gods."  He  did  not  accept  that,  and  this  is  what 
he  said :  "  O  comrade  Dorceus,"  said  he,  "  let  me  slay  the  man 
that  wounded  me,  to  wit,  Amphion,  and  let  us  not  wound  Thebans 
any  more ;  and  when  he  shall  fall  by  me,  I  shall  give  his  horse 
and  his  dress  to  Diana,  and  I  shall  give  his  quiver  to  my  mother." 

And  when  he  had  said  that,  it  was  revealed  to  Venus,  the 
goddess,  that  Diana  was  assisting  the  Greeks.  And  she  urged 
her  lover,  to  wit,  Mars,  son  of  Jove  the  god  of  battle,  that  he 
should  go  to  assist  the  Thebans.  For  Harmonia,  daughter  of  Mars 
and  Venus,  was  gi-andmother  of  the  Thebans,  and  therefore  she 
sent  the  cruel  battle-powerful  one,  to  wit,  Mars,  unto  Diana ; 
and  when  he  arrived  he  continued  reviling  the  maiden  greatly, 
and  this  is  what  he  said :  "  It  is  not  for  thee,  0  Diana,"  said 
he,  "to  marshal  battalions  of  valour  or  heroism,  but  to  shoot 
warlike  arrows  in  hunting."  And  she  came  silently  to  rescue 
Parthenopaeus. 

And  thereafter  came  Mars  to  incite  the  Thebans  against  the 
Greeks.  And  the  one  of  them  he  incited  first  was  Dryas,  son  of 
Orion,  and  that  lad  exercised  his  heroic  activity  on  the  Arcadians 
and  on  all  the  assemblies  that  were  along  with  Parthenopaeus 
engaging  in  that  battle.  And  Dryas  did  not  contract  weakness 
245 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  234b  23 

38i5sluagh,  uair  ua  demin   leis,  ce   madh   athscith  n-engnuma  é,    t|  ' 
rotaesadh   Partanapeus  da  laim.    Partanapeus,  immorro,  rue  a 
engnum  uadh  na  derbhairedha  urbadacha  ó  rodeiMg  Deana  ris 
.i.  a  nert  do  tercugud,  -j  a  soighiduolc  d'  folmagitd  d'  urchuraib  854 
dimaine,  -j  dellrad  sceith  Driais  iter  na  sluagaibh  aca  sluighi. 

3820  Rogab  adhfhuath  mór  Partanapeus  dona  gnimaib  sin,  -j  rochuir 
a  sreang  an  slait  sodiubraici  'na  laim,  cer-ua  dimain  dó;  uair 
intan  roui  a[c]  cur  na  soighdi  ar  in  sreing,  as  ann  tuc  Drias 
dasachtach  do  Tiabandaibh  urchur  do  shleig  uil%  aghmair 
rouai  'na  laim,  cur-ua  taobhtholl   treghdai  an   toebh   co  'raill 

3825  andsin  Partanapeus,  (p.  235)  mac  Meliager,  ri  cathbuadach  na 
Calidoine ;   -j   is  é  in  Meliager  sin  ua  comalta  comgaiscid  do 
Theis,  mac  Eigh,  mic  Neptain.    Roiterdeligther  re  each  -]  re  871 
armaib  é,  -j  nir-toirind  Drias  an  laim,  co  tuc  urchur  don  ech,  co 
rrothesc  -j  co  rrotrenletair  a  sirigh,  -j  is  cumai  tuc  Drias  na 

3830 hnrcharu  sin  -]  torchair  fen  co  dianmarb  fo  cétoir.  875 

Fo  hingnad1  immorro  leosum  sin,  uair  ni  fetatar  cia  ros-marbh. 
Acht  chena  is  í  Dean  ros-marbh  a  ndigail  Partanapeuis,  amal 
rogell  thúas  da  mathair,  co  ndigheolad  a  mac  ar  inti  ros- 
marbfedh. 

3835      0  torchair  tra  Partanapeus,  rotocatar  a  munter  leo  é  a  n-inad  877 
diamair  doimtheachta   do   taibh   in  muighi ;   -|   ger-u    anfonn 
rouai-sium  andsin,  ni  hiat  a  cnedha  fen  roacain,  acht  rouai 
Caledonda  Ian  cumtha  ac  cainedh  a  eich  do  marbhadh.    Acht  879 
chena  tancotar  airdhedha  bais  de  innsaighidh  fen ;  uair  tainic 

384oduibhi  -j  dodhealbh  da  ghnuis  and,  ger-ua  glangruadh  corcra 
conuigi  sin  é.  Et  roshilestar  frassa  fo?'granna  fola  dar  a  chorp 
sithghel  snechtamail  isin  uair  sin,  -j  tainic  failte  -]  me^fudh  -j 
medharglór  do,  -\  is  i  timna  contacair  u<5  dheoigh  :  "  A  Doirsis," 
ar  sé,  "  uair  dotuitius-[s]a  andso,  imthigh-si2  dochum  dingna 

3845  mo    mathar    truaighi-si    toirsighi,    -j    na    hadaim    di    a    cétoir 

1  Eg.  hingn<fm  2  Eg.  7  imthigh 

246 


THE  THEBAII) 

or  heat  there  whilst  hewing  the  hosts ;  for  he  was  certain  that 
though  he  might  be  languid  in  prowess,  Parthenopaeus  would 
fall  by  his  hand.  As  for  Parthenopaeus  however,  the  baleful 
portents  when  Diana  parted  from  him  reft  his  prowess  from 
him,  to  wit,  that  his  strength  should  be  lessened,  and  his  quiver 
emptied  by  vain  shots,  and  the  gleam  of  Dryas'  shield  among  the 
hosts  as  he  hewed  them.  Great  terror  seized  Parthenopaeus 
at  those  deeds,  and  he  placed  on  string  the  well-poised  arrow  in 
his  hand,  though  it  was  vain  for  him  ;  for  when  he  was  placing 
the  arrow  on  the  string,  at  that  moment  Dryas  the  mad  Theban 
delivered  a  cast  of  the  jagged  warlike  spear  that  was  in  his 
hand,  so  that  there  with  a  hole  in  his  side  and  transpierced 
from  one  side  to  another  was  Parthenopaeus,  son  of  Meleager, 
the  battle-victorious  king  of  Calydon  ;  and  it  is  that  Meleager 
who  was  foster-brother  in  the  equal  use  of  arms,  to  Theseus,  son 
of  Aegeus,  son  of  Neptune.  He  was  separated  from  horse  and 
arms,  and  Dryas  did  not  lower  his  hand  till  he  delivered  a  cast 
at  the  horse  and  he  cut  and  mangled  its  ham ;  and  no  sooner 
had  Dryas  delivered  those  casts  than  he  himself  fell  stark  dead 
forthwith. 

They  wondered  however  at  that,  for  they  knew  not  who  had 
killed  him.  Nevertheless  it  was  Diana  that  killed  him  in 
revenge  for  Parthenopaeus  ;  as  above,  she  had  promised  his 
mother  that  she  would  avenge  her  son  upon  the  man  who  should 
slay  him. 

Now  when  Parthenopaeus  fell,  his  followers,  in  order  that  he 
might  be  in  a  place  secluded  and  inaccessible,  raised  and  bore 
him  to  the  side  of  the  plain;  and  though  he  lay  there  very 
weak,  it  was  not  his  own  wounds  he  bewailed ;  but  the  Caly- 
donian,  full  comradelike,  was  bewailing  his  horse  that  it  should 
be  slain.  Nevertheless  signs  of  death  came  towards  himself;  for 
then  a  blackness  and  an  unseemliness  came  over  his  face,  though 
he  was  bright-cheeked  and  crimson  hitherto.  And  he  shed 
awful  showers  of  blood  over  his  ever-white  snowy  body  at  that 
time  ;  and  there  came  to  him  joy,  gladness,  and  joyous  talk ; 
and  this  is  the  testament  he  pleaded  at  last :  "  Dorceus,"  said 
he,  "  since  I  have  fallen  here,  do  thou  go  unto  the  castle  of  my 
wretched  sorrowing  mother,  and  do  not  confess  to  her  forthwith 
247 


TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  235a  24 

m'  oidhedh1  d'  faghuail  damsa,  7  intan  toicceua  m'  arm  -j  m'   ,£ 
edach  di,  7  abair  ria  rod%ius-sa  m'  oidhedh1  da  fhaghuail,  uair  891 
is  dar  sarugud-si   7   dar  ainneoil  na   ndei    tanac   dochum    in 
catha-sa,  -j  na  denaid  duba  na  domenmha  don  seel,  -j  beir  let  900 
»50  mo  trilis  di  a  n-inad  commordha  m'  oidhedha,  7  abair  ria  can 
m'  airm  -\  can  mo  coin  do  leicedh  do  nech  ele,  acht  a  mbeth  aici  905 
fen,  -j  ibair  fen  na  hairm-si  fuilet  im  laim  uait  do  Dean."    Et  a 
haithle  na  timnai  sin  roscailed  a  anum  re  a  (p.  235  /3)  corp 
do  a  cétoir. 


3855      As  andsin  tra  rotindesnaigh  Ioib  mac  Satuirnn  maithi2  mora    ^  ' 

d'  innsaigidh  na  slnag  sin  do  toirmesc  a  tachair.    Acht  chena  ni  2 

hair  mhaithi  re  Grecu  no  ri  Tiabanda  dorinni-sium3  sin  acht 

d'  foiridhtin  na  cined  coem  comidech  rodilcennaig  and  maroen 

riu.    Ua   hadhfhuathmar  tra   re   aitrebh   magh   na    Teue   isin 

3860  oidhchi  sin,  uair  rofacbad  and  mileda  cona  muntir  arna  marbad, 
...  .    «civ.       .  . 

7  urrigha  cona  oirechtaib  arna  n-oirl«$t,  -j  taisigh  cona  trenferaib 

arna  tuitim,  -j  airm  arna  daighbrisedh,  7  eich  deghredhtha  arna 

nclianmarbad  ar-conighdis  fo  cairpthib  curata  tús  in  lai  roime. 

As  andsin  roáeWigset  na  sluaigh  sin  .i.  na  Tiabanda  co  tighibh, 

3865  -7  Grecaigh,  in  laec/a^aid  letarthach,  co  longphortaib.  Et  ger-ua 
cumgai  na  doirsi  dona  deghsluagaibh  sin  ac  dul  dochum  an 
catha,  ba  lethna  lanfairsinga  ac  techt  uadha  re  himut  a 
n-esfadha.  Rouai  dono  gredhan  7  gubai  adhual  ac  cechtarnai4 
dibh   sin.    Ua  hadhual  subha  re  Tiabanda  in  cetar  ri[g]  do 

387oGrecaibh  do  marbad  et  a  sloigh  ar  sechran  da  n-eisi  .i. 
Ampiaraus  -j  Tit  7  Ipomedon  7  Partanapeus.  Rosiachtatar 
na  Tiabanda  na  cathracha,  7  is  i  comairle  rocinnsit,  forairedha 
1  forcoimet  do  chur  uathaib  ar  loncphortaibh  na  nGrec  isin 
oidhchi  sin,  ar  bithin  nach  helodis  uatha.    Et  is  iad  dochuaidh 

3875  don   coimed    sin    .i.    Meighis    mileta   7    Licus    laechdha   cona  19 
munteraibh.     Et    rucsat    fleda    fina   7    tinnti    led.     Et    rouai 
Etiocles,  ri  na  Teue,  aca  nertadh,  7  is  ed  roraid  riu:  "Denaid 

1  Eg.  oighedh       2  Eg.  mhi  =  superbi       3  Eg.  dorinnisa-sium      4  Eg.  ac  eedarnai 
248 


THE  THEBAID 

that  I  have  met  my  fate.  And  when  thou  wilt  show  my  arms 
and  my  raiment  to  her,  say  to  her  that  I  have  deserved  to  meet 
my  fate ;  for  in  her  despite  and  unknown  to  the  gods,  I  came  to 
this  war.  And  make  ye  no  sorrow  or  moan  at  the  tale,  and  bear 
with  you  my  locks  to  her  as  a  means  to  emphasise  my  fate. 
And  tell  her  not  to  allow  my  arms  and  my  dogs  to  be  given  to 
anyone  else  but  to  remain  with  herself;  and  do  thou  thyself 
offer  these  arms  that  are  in  my  hand  as  a  sacrifice  from  thee  to 
Diana."  And  after  that  bequest  his  soul  separated  from  his  body 
forthwith. 


BOOK  X 

Now  it  was  then  that  Jove,  son  of  Saturn,  hastened  great 
nobles  towards  those  hosts  to  check  their  fray.  Nevertheless  it 
was  not  for  good  to  Greeks  or  Thebans  that  he  did  that  but  to 
aid  the  kindly  foreign  tribes  he  had  destroyed  along  with  them. 
It  was  horrible  to  dwell  in  the  plains  of  Thebes  that  night ;  for 
there  were  left  soldiers  with  their  followers  slain,  officers  with  their 
companies  slaughtered,  chiefs  with  their  champions  fallen,  arms 
furiously  broken,  and  fleet  horses  stark  dead  that  were  sweating 
in  heroes'  chariots  at  the  beginning  of  the  day  before.  It  was 
then  those  hosts  separated,  to  wit,  the  Thebans  to  houses  and 
the  heroic  mangled  Greeks  to  camps.  And  though  the  gates 
were  narrow  for  those  goodly  hosts  in  going  to  battle,  they  were 
broad  and  full-wide  in  going  from  it  owing  to  the  number  of 
their  losses.  Again  there  was  an  exulting  shout  and  vast 
weeping  with  each  of  those.  It  was  a  vast  joy  to  the  Thebans 
that  four  Greek  kings  should  be  slain  and  their  hosts  astray 
after  them,  to  wit,  Amphiaraus,  Tydeus,  Hippomedon  and 
Parthenopaeus.  The  Thebans  reached  the  cities,  and  this  is 
the  plan  they  resolved  on  to  send  out  watchmen  and  a  guard 
on  the  camps  of  the  Greeks  that  night,  in  order  that  they 
might  not  escape  them.  And  it  was  these  that  went  on  that 
guard,  to  wit,  soldierly  Meges,  and  heroic  Lycus  with  their 
followers.  And  they  brought  with  them  wine  feasts  and  fires. 
And  Eteocles,  king  of  Thebes,  was  strengthening  them,  and  this 
249 


E.  45a  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  235b  30 

calmacht,    a   f hiru,"    ar   se,    "  7    métaigidh    bar    menmanna,   7    x 
comedaid  co   maith  anocht  na  Grecaigh,  -j   is  leibh   a  coscur 

38801  a  comaidhem,  uair  dothoitsit  (p.  236)  a  righa  .i.  Ampiaraus 
uasalsagart  7  Tithius  trenmilid  7  Ipimedon  airedha."   Et  nir-  25 
airimh-sium  Partanapeus,  uair  ua  nair  leis-[s]ium  a  oige  7  a 
tuitim  le  Tiabanda.    "  Ocas  ni  fhuil   dibh  anoisi  itir,"  ar  sé, 
"  acht  mad  in  senoir  anuonn  Adrast,  7  in  gille  6g  can  engnam 

3885  Polinices,  7  in  duine  dasachtach  Capaneus  mac  Tairsis,  7  cid  32 
iat  sec,"  ar  sé,  "  romairbfidhe  uile,  mina  tisadh  an  aiged  fai." 
Et  o  roraidh  Eitiocles  an  aithesc  sin  re  lucht  na  foraire,  roeircetar 
co  hathlam  ettrócar  can  oirisim  ce  rouatar  a  mná  7  a  muntera 
aca  fastodh,  no  co  rancatar  a  comfhoccus  don  longphort  sin  na  39 

389onGrec,  -j  rouatar  co  fuirechair  ac  fiedhugud  andsin  an  dá  la 
conici  sin. 

Dala  uanfcrachta  -j  uanndala  na  nGrec  tar  eis  a  fer  (p.  45),  is  49 
andsin  dorindsead1  idbarta  onorcha  a  templaib  uaisli  Iunainde 
do  rochtain  a  fer  co  cosgrach  slan  somen/nnach  da  n-indsaigid,  7  55 

3895  rabadar  'ca  cuimnechad  do  Iunaind  each  doronsad  na  Tiabanda 
riu.  Et  ni2  fidir-si  cid  dodenad  uime  sin,  acht  is  i  comairli 
doroine,  cumsanadh  -j  codlad  d'  fnralam3  arna  Tiabanda  isinn 
aidchi  sin4  do  rochtaiu  a  marabtha  dona  Grecaib.  Et  is  andsin 
rochuir4  bancumachtaig  da  muintir  uaithi  .i.  Iris,  dochum  dea  136 

3900  an  chodalta5  .i.  So?nnus.  Et  o  rasiacht  Iris  co  tigib  suanamla 
Somnais6,  is  ed  roraid  ris7:  "  Adubairt  Iunai/id  rit,"  ar  si,  "  a 
SAomnais,  suan  7  sirchodlad  d'  fWail8  ar  na  Tiabandaib  eter 
amuich  7  tall."  Raerig  imrnorro  Somnus  do  denam  an  gnima 
sin,  -j  rothuit  a  codlad  co  trom  trenmeirtnech  ar  na  Tiabanda 

3905  in  each  inad  a  mbadar,  con  rabadar9  uili  co  mertnech  midla?chda10 
'na  suanchodalta. 

Na  Gregaig,  immorro,  rabadar  seig  co  fuireachair  fe?-gach  ar  156 
ti  na  Tiabanda  robai  'na  timcheall11,  -j  antan  robadar  amla/a" 
sin,  raeirig  Tiodomas12  mac  Menilanipm's13  in  shagairt  celmanaig  161 

1  E.  is  andsin...  resumes  from  line  3547.    Eg.  dorinnsit  2  Eg.  cidh 

dodhenad  riu  no  doronsat  riu  7  ni  3  Eg.  dfurailo»  4  Eg.  docbuir 

4-4  Eg.  om.  5  Eg.  in  cotlata  6  E.  ^omtUXf  Eg.  Somnus  "  Eg.  roraidh  ria 
8  Eg.  furailm  9  Eg.  co  rauatar  10  Eg.  raidlaechdha  u  Eg.  rouatar 
na  timcheld  12  Eg.  Tidomus  lH  Eg.  Melampus 

25O 


THE  THEBAID 

is  what  he  said  to  them  :  "  Show  bravery,  O  men,"  said  he, 
"  and  fortify  your  minds,  and  guard  the  Greeks  well  to-night, 
seeing  that  to  you  belong  victory  and  boast  over  them  ;  for 
fallen  are  their  kings,  to  wit,  Amphiaraus,  the  noble  priest,  and 
Tydeus,  the  strong  soldier,  and  pre-eminent  Hippomedon."  And 
he  did  not  count  Parthenopaeus,  for  he  was  ashamed  of  his 
youth,  and  that  he  had  fallen  by  Thebans.  "  And  there  is  none 
of  them  now  at  all,"  said  he,  "  save  the  feeble  old  man  Adrastus, 
and  the  young  lad  of  no  prowess,  Polynices,  and  the  mad  man 
Capaneus,  son  of  Tairsis  (sic),  and  as  for  those,"  said  he,  "  they 
would  all  have  been  killed  had  not  night  come  immediately." 
And  when  Eteocles  had  uttered  that  message  to  the  people  of 
the  watch,  they  arose  actively  mercilessly  without  staying, 
though  their  wives  and  followers  were  holding  them  back,  till 
they  came  to  the  neighbourhood  of  that  camp  of  the  Greeks, 
and  they  had  been  watchfully  feasting  there  the  two  days  pre- 
viously. 

As  for  the  women  and  female  assemblies  of  the  Greeks  after 
the  departure  of  their  men,  they  then  offered  honourable  sacri- 
fices in  the  noble  temples  of  Juno  for  the  arrival  of  their  men, 
victorious,  safe  and  sound,  and  in  good  heart ;  and  they  were 
reminding  Juno  of  all  that  the  Thebans  had  done  to  them. 
And  she  did  not  know  what  she  should  do  about  that,  but  this 
is  the  plan  she  adopted,  to  enjoin  upon  the  Thebans  rest  and 
sleep  that  night  in  order  to  accomplish  the  slaughter  of  them 
by  the  Greeks.  And  it  was  then  she  sent  forth  a  powerful  dame 
of  her  following,  to  wit,  Iris,  unto  the  god  of  sleep,  to  wit, 
Somnus.  And  when  Iris  had  reached  the  sleepy  houses  of 
Somnus  this  is  what  she  said  to  him :  "  Juno  has  told  thee, 
0  Somnus,"  said  she,  "  to  induce  sleep  and  prolonged  slumber 
on  the  Thebans  both  without  and  within."  Now  Somnus  arose 
to  perform  that  deed,  and  slumber  fell  heavily  through  sheer 
exhaustion  upon  the  Thebans  in  each  place  wherein  they  were, 
so  that  they  all  remained  exhausted  and  cowardlike  in  profound 
slumber. 

As  for  the  Greeks,  however,  they  were  watchfully  and  angrily 
intent  upon  the  Thebans  who  were  round  about  them.    And 
whilst  they  were  thus  engaged,  Thiodamas,  son  of  Melanippus, 
251 


E.  45a  i7  *       TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  236b  3 

3910 do   Gi-egaib,   -j   is  eiseig  rohordaigeadh1  a  n-inad  Ampiarauis     *  ' 
aca-sam,  -j  ragab  ar  faisdine  dona2  Gregaib,  co  tangadar3  uili 
a  n-eninad  'mon4  airdn'g  'ma  Adraist  do  denam  a  co??*airli,  -j  ba 
toirrseach    cumihach    iad-sam   ac    fegadh    inad    falam    na   rig 
roraarbad  da  muintir. 

3915      Is    andsi/i    trd    roeirig    in    celmanaigtheoir    cumachtach,    .i.  187 
Tiodomus,  do  gresacht  na  sluag,  -7  is  ed  roraidh  :  "  Rodilsigsed5 
na  déi  daib  trá  na  Tinbanda  isircn  aidchi-si  nocht,  -j  rothogaib  205 
Ampmraus  uasal  cend  damsa,  -j  is  ed  roraidh  ribsi  bar  muinter 
do  digailt  anocht  ar  na  Tisibanda,  uair  is  ci»dti  daib  a  coscur  21S 

3920  do  ehur,  -j  cen  co  dech  nech  aili6  and,  rachadsa." 

Lasi?i  ngresacht  sin  tra  roeirgedar  co  hathlam  aimiindeach  219 
trein  -7  taisig  na  nGreg7.    Acid  chena  is  andsi»  rothog  Tiodomos 
an  trichait8  trenmiled  ba  ferr  leis  do  Gregaib9.    Et  ba  hé  a 
nduthracht  uili  na  G?^eg  isin  uair  sir?  trenfhobairt  na  Tinbanda, 

3925*1  adubradar  cert  crandchair  do  chur  atwrra10,  uair  ba  hé11  a 
roga  each  sain  ib  leith  dib  comadh  hé  risad  ar  tus  na  Tiahanda. 

Is  andsirc  roeirig  Ad?-aist12  aird?-i,  -j  asbe?-t :  "  Anaid,  a  firu,"  ar  227 
se,  "-]  is  lor  uathad  do  thabairt  a  n-air13,  -|  rachmaid  uili  re 
soillsi  an  lai  da  fobairt."  244 

3930      Asa  haithli   sin   trá  roeirig  an  fisid14  fireolach  Tiodomas  -]  249 
Agilleus  mac  Earcail  marsen  ris.    Ba  hind[am]ail15  da  athoir  an 
gilla  sin,  1  Echtor  uasal,  uair  ni  roibi  Gregda  ba16  glicca  inas,  -j 
deichnibar  maraén  ré  each  fer  dib  sin.    Is  andsin  rochuir  Tio- 
domas  a  eirrid  suaichnidh  de  a  n-ucht  in  airdrig  Adraist.    Et 

3935  ragab  a  chathbarr  •]   luirig  Po[li]nixes  moir  mic  Eidip  ime. 
Ragab  [do]no  Acthor  anrata  claidiuwi-  Chapaneuw'  ina  laim.    Rug  258 
iramorro  Agillus  mac  Earc[ail]17  airm  Nomis  nemnig  leis,  uair 
nir-ba  cuibdi18  cathaigthi   leis  ism  aiti  saigdi   Ercail  rabadar 
aigi19  fein.    Et  a  haithli  sin  rolingsed20  an  lucht  sin  co  hathlam 

3940  tar  mullach  muir  an  longphuirt  amach,  uair  nir-b  ail  leo  fuaim 

1  Eg.  rohoirdnedh  2  Eg.  faistine  do  3  E.  repeats  co  tangadar 

*  Eg.  umon  6  Eg.  rodilsighit  6  Eg.  ele  7  Eg.  na  Grece 

8  Eg.  in  trioha  9  Eg.  do  Grecaibh  lais  10  Eg.  etmru  n  E.  baehe 

12  Eg.  int  airdrigh  Adr.  13  Eg.  a  n-air  E.  a  n-ais  14  E.  fisig  Eg.  fisigh 
15  Eg.  h'mns&mail,  hintBamail  16  Eg.  do  Grecaibh  nech  ba  17  Eg.  Ochtur 
anriata...  E.  mce^r>C  Eg.  Ercaii  18  Eg.  uair  ropacipi  19  Eg.  leisim  i 
n-ait  shoigdi  a  athar  batar  aici  20,  Eg.  rolingistar 

252 


THE  THEBAID 

the  Greek  augural  priest  arose ;  and  it  was  he  that  had  been 
appointed  by  them  in  Amphiaraus'  stead ;  and  he  began  a 
prophecy  to  the  Greeks,  so  that  they  all  came  into  one  place 
round  the  high-king  Adrastus  to  follow  his  counsel ;  and  they 
were  sorrowful  and  sad  as  they  beheld  the  empty  places  of  the 
kings  that  had  been  slain  of  their  following. 

Now,  it  was  then  that  the  powerful  augur  arose,  to  wit, 
Thiodamas,  to  urge  the  hosts,  and  this  is  what  he  said  :  "  The 
gods  have  abandoned  the  Thebans  to  you  indeed  this  very- 
night  ;  and  Amphiaraus  has  appeared  to  me,  and  this  is  what 
he  has  said  to  you,  to  avenge  your  followers  to-night  upon  the 
Thebans,  since  it  is  a  certainty  for  you  to  gain  a  victory  over 
them ;  and  though  no  other  go  there,  I  shall  go." 

Now  with  that  incitement  actively  angrily  arose  the  champions 
and  chiefs  of  the  Greeks.  Yet  it  was  then  that  Thiodamas  chose 
the  thirty  strong  Greek  soldiers  he  deemed  the  best.  And 
it  was  the  earnest  desire  of  all  the  Greeks  at  that  time  to 
make  a  strong  assault  upon  the  Thebans,  and  they  said  that  a 
decision  by  lot  should  be  made  among  them ;  for  this  was  the 
choice  of  each  of  them  individually  that  it  might  be  he  that 
would  reach  the  Thebans  first.  • 

Now  thereafter  arose  Adrastus,  the  high-king,  and  said : 
"  Stay,  O  men,"  said  he,  "  a  few  are  enough  to  work  their 
slaughter ;  and  let  us  all  come  at  daylight  to  attack  them." 

Now  thereafter  arose  the  very  skilful  wizard  Thiodamas  and 
Agylleus,  son  of  Hercules,  along  with  him.  That  lad  was  like 
his  father;  and  noble  Actor,  for  no  Greek  existed  who  was  wiser 
than  he ;  and  ten  men  were  along  with  each  man  of  those. 
There  Thiodamas  put  from  him  his  distinguished  garb  into  the 
bosom  of  the  high-king  Adrastus.  And  he  put  on  the  helmet 
and  mail  of  great  Polynices,  son  of  Oedipus.  Heroic  Actor  also 
took  the  sword  of  Capaneus  into  his  hand.  Moreover  Agylleus 
son  of  Hercules  brought  with  him  the  arms  of  venomous 
Nomius,  for  the  arrows  of  Hercules  which  he  himself  possessed 
were  not  in  his  opinion  suitable  for  fighting  with  in  the  place. 
And  thereafter  those  people  leaped  forth  actively  over  the  top 
of  their  camp  wall,  for  they  did  not  wish  the  sound  of  the  brass 

253 


E.  45a  48  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  237a  2 

na  ndon/s  n-uwtaidi  aga  n-oslugad1  do  cloisteac/??*.     Et  gairid    ^ 
dochuadar2  antan  (col.  /S)  fuaradar  na  firu  meascda3  medar- 
chodaltaecha  -j,  "  A  Gregda,"  ar  se4  Tiodomas,  "  nach  iad  so  lucht 
rabai  ac  forbais  foraib  ?  -j  is  urusa  daib  anosa  a  dhigail  orra." 

3945  Et  rabean  a  chlaidi???  asa  thinntig,  -j  tainig  tresna  sluagaib,  *]  270 
rabai  'ga  slaigi  -]  'ca  marbad  co  na  fetar  airi???  a  n-airinii  na 
cuiinniugwd   comand  a  curad   adorchair5  andsi?^  re  Tiodomas. 
Uair  dofhagaib-siu7?i  and  laich  ar  na  lanmarbad  'na  cosrachaib, 
-j  cwraid  ar  na  comach  a  c?'tslach  a  sciath,  -j   treinfhir  ar  na 

3950  tuargai/?  a  leapthaib  feoir  •]  fidnemid.  Rabadar  dono  na  dei 
adartha  andsi»,  ag  cungnam  re  Gregaib,  -j  ag  tescad  ar  na 
Tiiibandaib.  Agillews,  immorro,  mac  Earcail,  nir-ba  luga6  na 
hara  dochuir  ar  na  Tiabandaib,  -j  rabai  'ca  ndithubadh7  -j  'ca 
ndilgend,  no  co  tarla  Palameinus  ceolbind  cruitiri  na  Tiabanda  305 

3955  do  a  haithli  oirfid[the]  dona  sluagaib;  -j  nir-fhogai??  a  bin[n]ins 
do-si»,  ar  adorchair  a  chetoir  do  laim  laic  Earcail.    Gid  Echtair,  313 
dono,  nir-bo  tlaith  a  thres  ac  trenmarbad  na  Tiabanda  co  torchair  314 
Tarairis   trenchalma   do   Tiaibandaib   do    laim.     Rothuit   dono 
Eitiocles  do  Tiahandaib  re  Tag;<s8  do  G?-egaib.    Rabai  Palpitus 

3960  do  Tiabandaib  'na  tromchodlad  eter  chuingib  an  charpaid  no  co 
ridcht  Tiodoraas  do  Gregaib  chuigi,  -j   ba  he  duscad   tug  air  319 
beim  claidim  do'thabairt  dó  cor-bá  taman  mael  da  eiss9. 

Rabadar  amlaid  sin  ag  trenmarbad  na  Tiabanda,  no  co  tainig  326 
irde?-ed  na  haidchi  chucu,  -j  adchondairc 10  Eachtor  amaindsech 

3965  do  Gregaib  si??.    Ragairead  Tiodomos  chuici,  -j  is  ed  doraid  ris : 
"  Is  lor,"  ar  se,  "  an  coscwr  rugsamar11,  uair  torcAratar  lind  an  330 
ba12  hinmarbtha  andso13  [do]  Thiabandaib,  -j  denam  imtecht  risin 
coscur  cathb[u]adach-sa  rugsamar."    Rafhsem  Tiodo??tas  si??,  ■] 
rabai  ag  admolad  bandei  na  haidchi  .i.  Pebi,  ar  an  cose???-  tug  doib 

3970  isi?m  aidchi  sir?.  Et  each  coscwr  oidchi  beris  each  is  tre  impidi 
na  bandei14  si/?,  Pebe,  iar  sithsenchasa  gentligi15.  Et  rogeall  [di] 
co  n-idberad  do  cethraib  di  coimlin  ar-marb16  do  sluagaib  andsi??,  342 

1  Eg.  aca  foslucud  2  Eg.  Et  ni  cian  doeuatar  3  E.  miscdha 

Eg.  rnescdha  4  E.  ar  si  5  Eg.  co  nar-fetatar  arim  na  n-airem  na  a 

cumniugud  a  ndorchair  °  Eg.  'na  eosair  cro...fidnemheda...ag  trascairt  ar 

na  T.    E.  nir-ba  luga  repeated  7  Eg.  ditliugud  8  E.  rothuit  repeated... 

Eg.  Enocles...le  Taghus  9  Eg.  tuc  fair... da  eisi  10  Eg.  eucu  7  o 

conndaircc   E.  chuci  u  Eg.  rucumar  12  Eg.  linn  in  lin  ba 

13  E.  so  14  Eg.  bainndei  15  Eg.  geinntlighi  1G  Eg.  romarbh 

254 


THE  THEBAID 

doors  to  be  heard  as  they  were  being  opened.  And  scarcely  had 
they  gone  when  they  found  the  men  drunk  and  overcome  with 
sleep,  and  Thiodamas  said  :  "  O  Greeks,  are  not  these  the  folk 
that  were  besieging  you  ?  And  it  is  easy  for  you  now  to  be 
avenged  on  them."  And  he  plucked  his  sword  out  of  its  sheath, 
and  he  came  through  the  hosts,  and  he  was  hewing  and  slaying 
them,  so  that  it  was  not  possible  to  count  their  number  or  to 
remember  the  companies  of  their  heroes  that  .fell  there  by 
Thiodamas.    For  he  left  there  heroes  hal^kiUeoon  their  litters, 

A 

-and  warriors  broken  in  the  hollow  of  their  shields,  and  champions 
smitten  on  beds  of  grass  and  of  sacred  wood.  Also  the  worship- 
ful gods  were  there  aiding  the  Greeks,  and  cutting  at  the 
Thebans.  As  for  Agylleus,  son  of  Hercules,  however,  not  less 
were  the  slaughters  he  inflicted  on  the  Thebans ;  and  he  con- 
tinued to  destroy  and  exterminate  till  the  sweet  musician 
Ialmenus,  harper  of  the  Thebans,  met  him  after  playing  to  the 
hosts ;  and  his  sweetness  did  not  serve  him,  for  he  fell  forthwith 
by  the  hand  of  the  son  of  Hercules.  As  for  Actor,  again,  not 
mild  was  his  battle  as  he  starkly  slew  the  Thebans,  till  strong 
and  valiant  Thamyris  fell  by  his  hand.  Echeclus,  a  Theban, 
also  fell  by  Tagus,  a  Greek.  Calpetus,  a  Theban,  was  sound 
asleep  between  the  yokes  of  the  chariot  till  Thiodamas,  a  Greek, 
came  unto  him  and  the  awakening  he  bestowed  on  him  was  to 
give  him  a  sword-stroke,  so  that  he  was  a  bare  trunk  in  con- 
sequence of  it. 

Thus  they  continued  starkly  slaying  the  Thebans  till  the  end 
of  the  night  approached  them,  and  prudent  Actor,  a  Greek,  saw 
that.  He  began  to  call  Thiodamas  to  him,  and  this  is  what  he 
said  to  him:  "Sufficient,"  said  he,  "is  the  victory  we  have 
obtained,  for  all  that  were  slayable  here  of  Thebans  have  fallen 
by  us,  and  let  us  be  going  with  this  battle-triumphant  victory  we 
have  won."  Thiodamas  accepted  that,  and  was  extolling  the 
goddess  of  night,  to  wit,  Phoebe,  for  the  victory  she  had  given 
them  that  night.  And  every  night-victory  that  anyone  wins  is 
through  the  intercession  of  that  goddess,  Phoebe,  according  to  age- 
long heathen  histories.  And  he  promised  her  that  he  would  sacri- 
fice as  many  cattle  to  her  as  the  whole  of  the  hosts  he  had  slain 

255 


E.  45b  33  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  237b  1 

1  rdimpadar1  co  subach  sirforfhailid  leisna  gniwiaib  sin  dochum    ^ 
a  longphuirt2. 

3975      Et  dobadar  da  mi  lid  mornemnacha  aco-som  andsin  .i.  Opiliins3 
do  muinntir  Thid,  mw  rig  na  Cailidoni,  7  Dimas  do  muinntir 
Partanopeitis  rig  na  hArcaidegda4,  -j  nir  ferrjii  leisin  dis5  si/i 
beith  beo  tar  eis  a  tigernadh,  7  doraidh  Opliins6  re  Dimas  :  350 
"  A  fir  chmntha,"  ar  se,  "  in  olc  lat  ina"1  do  thigerna8  .i.  Partano- 

3980  pens,  a  corp  do  beith  fa  conaib  7  ethaidib  na  Teibi  ?  Acht  chena 
is  tren  romthraid-sea9  -|  chraides  mo  cridi  mo  thigerna  fein  do 
beith  amlaid  .i.  Tid,  mac  rig  na  Cailidoine ;  7  na  rach-sa10  beo 
co  Cailidoin  can  a  chorp-sum  do  beith  liurn."  "  Trnag  dono  sin," 
ar  Dimas,  "  is  am  toirrsigi-si  tar  eis  mo  tigerna  ina  each  duine,  360 

3985  7  rachad-sa  andsin  gé  dechair-si  cen  co  dechair11." 

Is  andsi?i  dochuadar  rompo  d'  iarraid  in  armaigi  do  thabairt 
chorp12  a  tigernad  led,  7  robadar  'ca  n-iarraid  no  cor-eirgedar 
ruithned  greine  glanshoillse  (p.  46)  arnamarach,  7  cor-ba  leir 
daib  each  lanradarcc  u??ipo.    Et  is  and13  fuair  each  ier  dib  corp 

3990  a   thigerna,   -j    rothogbadar   leo   iad   ana    n-oireadaib    firmora  380 
fnrmid14,  7  dochuaday*  rompo  co  tái  toirrseach  tindesnach  dochiim 
a  longpAutrt15.   Ba  doilig  leo  immorro  lanshoillsiugwd  an  lai  da 
tarrachtain  ag  na16  gni??iaib  sin. 

An  tan  tra  rosiachtada?'17  a  g[c]o?nfhogus  a  longp[huir]t18, 

3995  adcualada?-  fogiir  bres  7  fothrand  mór  ina  [njdiaidh19.     Et  is  384 
é  robaí  andsin  Ampion  do  Thiapa?idai6  cona20  dirim  ndegsluaig 
marsen  ris,  ar  nach   cw?dis21  na  fairaireda,  -j   dothaiscelad  ar 
longpAort  na  nG?-eg  isiw  maidin  mochrach,  7  adcondairc  Ampion 
andsin  do  Gregaib  7  curpu22  na  citrad  forra,  7  rotrengreis23  a  each 

4000  no  co  rue  forra,  -j  is  ed  doraid 24  riu  :  "  Fuirgid,  a  f  hiru,"  ar  se,  "  co  393 
findam25  cia  sib.   Acht  chena  is  folln.s  duind  foraib  enr-a  bidbaid 

1  Eg.  roimpotar  2  Eg.  sirforfhailid  o);i....lonccp/»<trt  3  Eg.  Opilus 

4  E.    Partanopeus  rig    na    caili    rig    na    hArcaidegda     Eg.    ri    na    hArcaidi 

5  Eg.  leisin  ndis  G  Eg.  roraidh  Opilus  i  Eg.  E.  1T)  8  Eg.  tigernai 

9  Eg.  ronithraighis  10  Eg.  7  nach  rachum  u  Eg.  is  toirsigh  mhe  na  gach 
duine  ar  eis  mo  thigernadh.  Et  rachad-sa  andsin  ge  dechisi  gen  co  dechis 
12  E.  corpaib  Eg.  0111.     13  Eg.  andsin     14  Eg.  ina  n-eredhaibh  mora  fi/fedhmha 

10  Eg.  toirseach  tindesnach  dochum  a  loncphuirt  16  Eg.  lai  do  teacht  ag  na 
17  Eg.  cosiachtatar  18  Eg.  loncphuirt  19  Eg.  ina  ndiaidh  ao  Eg.  A. 
Tiauanda  conadh  21  Eg.  ar  na  cur  dfis  22  Eg.  mochthrath  et  adc.  A.  an 
diass  sin  7  cuirp            23  Eg.  rogres            24  Eg.  roraid            25  Eg.  Qjidom 

256 


THE  THEBAID 

there.    And  after  these  deeds  they  returned  joyfully  and  with 
lasting  gladness  to  their  camp. 

And  there  were  two  greatly  virulent  soldiers  with  them  there, 
to  wit,  Hopleus  of  the  followers  of  Tydeus,  son  of  the  king  of 
Calydon,  and  Dymas  of  the  following  of  Parthenopaeus,  king  of 
Arcadia ;  and  neither  of  those  twain  preferred  to  live  after  their 
lords,  and  Hopleus  said  to  Dymas :  "  O  comrade,"  said  he, 
"  dost  thou  take  ill  the  end  of  thy  lord,  to  wit,  Parthenopaeus, 
that  his  body  should  lie  under  the  dogs  and  birds  of  Thebes  ? 
Yet  mightily  has  it  overwhelmed  me,  and  tortured  my  heart,  that 
my  own  lord  should  be  thus,  to  wit,  Tydeus,  son  of  the  king  of 
Calydon ;  and  let  me  not  go  alive  to  Calydon  without  his  body 
being  with  me."  "  Alas  for  that,"  said  Dymas,  "  I  am  sadder  for 
my  lord  than  any  man,  and  I  shall  go  there  whether  thou  go 
or  not." 

Then  they  proceeded  to  search  the  battlefield  in  order  to 
bring  the  bodies  of  their  lords  with  them,  aud  they  continued 
searching  for  them  till  the  radiance  of  the  pure-bright  sun  arose 
on  the  morrow,  and  every  full  view  about  them  was  clear  to 
them.  And  there  each  of  them  found  the  body  of  his  lord, 
raised  them  up  and  carried  them  with  them  as  very  great 
burdens  requiring  very  great  effort.  And  they  proceeded  silently, 
sadly,  hastily  to  their  camp.  They  thought  it  hard,  however, 
that  the  full  glare  of  day  should  come  with  these  doings. 

Now  when  they  had  reached  the  neighbourhood  of  their  camp, 
they  heard  a  brisk  sound  and  a  big  din  behind  them.  And 
Amphion,  a  Theban,  was  there,  and  with  him  his  band  of  a  goodly 
host  for  whom  they  had  no  watches  set ;  and  they  used  to  spy 
on  the  camp  of  the  Greeks  early  in  the  morning.  And  Amphion 
saw  there  some  Greeks  with  the  bodies  of  their  champions 
upon  them,  and  he  urged  his  horse  till  he  overtook  them,  and 
this  is  what  he  said  to  them :  "  Stay,  O  men,"  said  he,  "  till  we 
find  out  who  ye  are.  Yet  as  regards  you  it  is  clear  to  us  that 
257  17 


E.  46*  14  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  237b  33 

do  Thiabandaib  sib1."    Is  andsi/i  dobai  each  dibsium  ag  tindenws    ^  ' 
seoch  aroili  ré  heagla  Aimpiom.    Acht  chena  ni  daib  fein  dob 
eagail2    leo   ni,  acht   na   cuirp    crodcrec/íínaigthi    rabadar    for 

4005  a  mum3  d'  fagbail.  Rabai  dono  Ampioa  Tiabanda  ag  tomaithem 
mor  fo?TO,  7  tuc  urchar  don  i'hir  robai  ar  tus  dib  .i.  do  Diraas,  397 
cor-thuit4  an  sleg  can  aigbeile  ina  fhiadnaisi.    Is  andsin  tai?tig 
an  milid  mormenmnach  Ifitus5  do  Thiabandaib,  7  tuc  fwtVmed 
seidrech  sarchalma  sleigi  ar  Opleims  ara  roibi  corp  Tid,  cor-bris 

4010  a  drwim  and,  7  co  rotregd6  corp  Tit  robai  ara  muin  [co  rotorchair 
don  goin  sin  Eg.].    Rathsill  imraorro  Dimas  dara  ais,  -j  adcon-  405 
daircc  imarcraid  na  Tiabanda  ag  tromlaigi  air,  -j  ni  fhichV  an 
maithem  n-anacail  roshirfed,  no  an  comland    docWrfed   riu. 
Acht  chena  isi  co??iairli   dorigne7.     Rochuir  de   an  corp  rabai 

4015  fair  .i.  corp  Parian  opeuis,  7   rochuir  a  craicend  tren   tigrigi8 
robai  aime  ina  laira  chli,  7  a  claidi??i  lainderta9  lasamai??  ina 
laim  deis,  -|  doimpo  fan  samla10  sin  risna  sluagaib  avaal  leoman  414 
lanfhergach  risna11  gabaid  gaisgedaig  arna  chrad  'ma  chuilenaib, 
conid  cuma  leis  bas  -]12  betha  d'  fagbail.    Imacomraig13  do  andsm 

4020-]  Ampio??  airsid14  Tiabanda  re  hag  1  re  hirgail,  7  tug  Ampio?i 
andsin  beim  claidin*  do  Diwos,  cor-ben  a  lam  clí  comnairt  'ga 
gualaind  de,  -j  rothairrngedar  na  Tiabanda  corp15  Partanopetas 
uadh.  O  'dchondairc-sium  ivamorro  sin,  robai  co  traag  toirrseach 
ag16  iarraid  chuirp  ag  iarraid  a  tigerna17  orra,  7   aabert   riu  : 

4025  "  Ar  na  deib  rib,  a  fhiru,"  ar  se,  "  denaid  fselleas18  risin  corp  423 
tairrngtai19,  7  tabraid  mo  chorp-sa  d'  enaib  -j  do  eathaidib,  uair  430 
is  cora  ina  [a]n  corp  full  agaib."    Is  andsin  doraid20  Ampio/i 
ris-[s]inm :  "  Leigfigt/*er21  corp  do  thigenia  duid,  7  leigfigt/fer  tú  431 
fein  as  mar  tai,  da  mbraite  -j  da  treigtea22  na  G?*egaig23  damsa." 

4030  Ra[fh]regair  Dimas  domm,  -j  is  ed  doraid24 :  "  Ni  dmgni/Hl-si25  trd 
sin,  gidead  roanced26  mo  thigerna  'na  bethaid,  7  mé  fein  can  ole 
do  buai/?  rium."   Et  [is  Eg.]  cuma  adbert-sam  sai?;27  -j  roleig  a 

1  Eg.  euro  bidhbaidh  Tiabanda  sibh      2  Eg.  rop  hecail      3  Eg.  rouatar  forro 
4  Eg.  douai...co  rrotoit  5  Eg.  Aipitus  6  Eg.  setreach...co  rrotregdadh 

7  Eg.  roshill...doroine  8  Eg.  an  croicen»  trentigri  9  Eg.  loinderdha 

10  Eg.  samlai  u  Eg.  ris  nacA  12  Eg.  bas  no  13  Eg.  betha.  Umacomroc 
14  Eg.  7  d'  Ampion  don  airsidh  E.  airsig  15  Eg.  na  T.  ar  sin  corp  16  Eg.  aca 
17  Eg.  tigernai  1S  Eg.  foilli  19  Eg.  tairngtbi  20  Eg.  ana  an  corp...roraid 
21  Eg.  leicfidhter  22  Eg.  mar  atái  da  mbraitea  7  da  treigtea  23  E.  Gregaid 
24  Eg.  roraid        25  Eg.  dighnaind-si        26  Eg.  rohaincedh        27  Eg.  asbert  sin 

258 


THE  THEBAID 

ye  are  foes  to  Thebans."  Then  was  each  of  them  hastening  past 
the  other  for  fear  of  Amphion.  -Yet  it  was  not  for  themselves 
they  feared  anything,  but  lest  the  gory  and  wounded  bodies 
that  were  upon  their  backs  should  be  left.  Now  Theban 
Amphion  was  greatly  menacing  them,  and  he  delivered  a  cast 
at  the  man  of  them  who  was  in  front,  to  wit,  Dymas,  and  the 
spear  fell  near  him  without  danger.  Then  came  the  great- 
spirited  soldier  Aepytus,  a  Theban,  and  delivered  a  strong  very 
brave  lethal  cast  of  a  spear  at  Hopleus,  on  whom  was  the  body 
of  Tydeus,  so  that  it  broke  his  back  there,  and  pierced  the  body 
of  Tydeus  that  was  upon  his  back,  and  he  fell  owing  to  that 
wound.  Dymas,  however,  glanced  back,  and  saw  too  many  of 
the  Thebans  pressing  him  heavily,  and  he  did  not  know  whether 
he  should  ask  for  quarter  or  give  them  battle.  Yet  this  is  the 
plan  he  adopted.  He  laid  down  the  body  that  was  upon  him, 
to  wit,  Parthenopaeus'  body,  and  placed  his  strong  tiger's  skin 
that  was  round  him  in  his  left  hand,  and  his  blazing  flaming- 
sword  in  his  right,  and  in  that  guise  he  turned  about  upon  the 
hosts  like  a  full-angry  lion  which  heroes  do  not  tackle  after  his 
anguish  about  his  whelps,  so  that  he  is  indifferent  whether  to  die 
or  live.  Then  he  and  the  Theban  veteran,  Amphion,  encountered 
in  battle  and  strife;  and  there  Amphion  dealt  Dymas  a  sword- 
stroke,  and  struck  off  his  powerful  right  arm  at  the  shoulder,  and 
the  Thebans  dragged  the  body  of  Parthenopaeus  away.  When 
Dymas  saw  that,  however,  he  was  miserably  and  sadly  begging 
the  body, begging  his  lord  from  them,  and  he  said  to  them:  "By 
the  gods  that  are  yours,  0  men,"  said  he,  "  show  gentleness  to 
the  body  ye  drag,  and  give  to  birds  and  flocks  my  body,  for  that 
is  more  just  than  the  body  which  ye  have."  Then  said  Amphion 
to  him :  "  The  body  of  thy  lord  will  be  given  up  to  thee,  and 
thou  thyself  wilt  be  let  away  as  thou  art,  if  thou  should  betray 
and  abandon  the  Greeks  to  me."  Dymas  answered  him,  and  this 
is  what  he  said :  "  Indeed  I  would  not  do  that  though  it  were  to 
save  my  lord  alive,  provided  that  for  myself  no  evil  should 
attach  to  me."  And  no  sooner  had  he  said  that  than  he  ran  his 
259  17-2 


E.  46a  47  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  238a  33 

acht  7  a  urbruiíídi  'ma  claidim1  n-urnocht,  co  fuair  bas  and  fo    x 
chetoir.     Cid   tra   acht   rothuitsed   amlaid    sin   .i.   Opleims2  *\ 

4035  Dimus,  tre  cuibdi  a  comaid3  amaZ  rothuitsei  tall  (col.  /3)  Nisus  448 
7    Eurialhis   do    Throigiandaib    a    marloinges    iEniass4    a?itan 
romarbsad   xmniter  Tiurn    an   dara    fer  dib,  amal  indister  ar 
loinges  JEni&s5. 

Et  asa  haithli  sin  dochuir6    Ampio?;    fesa  uad   co    Teib  d'  449 

404oináisin   na  seel  sin  inwti,  7   dochuaid  fein  roime   d'    forbaisi7452 
ar  longfori  na  nGreg  -j  do  thogbail  na  cenn  sin  doib. 

Is  anefom  dochonncadar8  na  Greig  chucu  Tiodo?nas  ramarb9  454 
na  fo?-aireada,  -j  sé  subach  sirforbfseilid  ag  coraaidem10  na  ngnim 
doroi?ie,  -j  tugad11  leosam  ilacha  aithis[e]  -j  gairi  comaidme12 

4045  maraen  ris,  7  antan  robadar  amlaid  sin  ag  comaidira  a  coscair,  is  465 
and   romothaigsed   Opliiws13  7  Dim»s  do  beith  'na  n-ingnais. 
Rafhas  guba  -j  geran  aco14,  o  na  facadar  na  firu  sin. 

Imtasa,  Aimpion  Tiabanda,  immorro,  tainig  roime  no  co  riacht 
a  comihogus  don  longp/iori,  -j  o  'dchomiairc  na  hara  aidbli15  dona 

4050  Tiabandaib,  rosocht  air  co  mor,  co  nar-b  athlam16  ré  himthecwht, 
7  co  nar-ba  cubaid  comraith  ré  méd  na  ci/mad  dos-fawig  iga 
faigsin-,  -j  roi?rcpo  a  chetoir  andsiw,  -j  tainig  ar  culu  dochum 
na  Tebi. 

Imtwsa  na  nGreg,  immorro,  roeirgedar  co  hathlam  agarbh  475 

4055  dar  doirrsib  a  longftnri  do  dul  dochum  na  Tiaba??da17,-|  is  and 
dochuatar  tré  lár  in  armuig  tucadar  a  munter  isinn  aidchi  reime 
[sin  Eg.].  Ba  subach  t?*a  iad-sam  'ca  faicsi??  &mal  dotoglaidis18 
tigi  -j  treaba  na  Tiabanda19  uile. 

Is  andsin  ronert  Capaneii/s  gasrada20  Greg  urn  dul  do  thren-  482 

4o6ofobairt  na  Teibi,  7  as  ed  adbert  riu21 :  "  Eirgid,  a  oga,"  ar  se, 
"  marsen  riumsa,  uair  as  fada  atú  can  mo  bladh  -j  can  mo 
mornert  do  thogbail  ag  togail  na  Teibi.  Uair  is  í  mo  deslam 
daithgel  daingean  is  dee  damsa22,  7  is  é  mo  chlaidem  cruaid 
cwrata  as  camachtach  dam."    Et  o  raraid-sium  sin,  rochoi?Heirig  487 

1  Eg.  ma  a  cloidew  2  Eg.  Opilus  3  Eg.  cuiphe  a  cumainn 

4  E.  I0Í5  ;  AéeiAff  ...CUfu  5  Eg.  a  longis  .Enisa  6  Eg.  rochuir 

7  Eg.  foruaisi         8  Eg.  atconcatar        9  Eg.  cur-marbíAa         10  Eg.  comaidim 
11  Eg.  tucaid  12  Eg.  ill  aitcesa  7  gairi  comaidime  13  Eg.  Oplighus 

14  Eg.  geran  mor  acu  15  Eg.  aidhble  16  Eg.  fair...co  nar-ua  hatblum 

17  Eg.  a  longpfiuirt  amach  dochum  na  Teue     18  Eg.  faicsin  sin...rothoghlaidis 
19  Eg.  na  Teúe     20  Eg.  gasraid     21  Eg.  isbert  friu     22  Eg.  deslam  is  dei  damsa, 

2ÓO 


THE  THEBAID 

naked  sword  into  his  breast  and  his  bosom  and  died  there  forth- 
with. Nay  more,  thus  died  they,  to  wit,  Hopleus  and  Dymas, 
through  the  harmony  of  their  friendship,  as  fell  of  yore  Nisus 
and  Euryalus,  Trojans,  in  the  great  voyage  of  iEneas,  when 
Turnus'  following  had  slain  one  of  them,  as  is  related  in  the 
voyage  of  ^Eneas. 

And  thereafter  Amphion  sent  away  news  to  Thebes  to  relate 
those  tales  therein,  and  he  himself  advanced  to  besiege  the 
camp  of  the  Greeks,  and  to  show  them  those  heads. 

Then  the  Greeks  saw  Thiodamas  approaching,  who  had  killed 
the  watchers,  and  was  himself  joyous  and  ever  glad,  bragging  of 
the  deeds  he  had  done;  and  by  them  were  raised  shouts  of 
contempt  and  boastful  laughter  along  with  him;  and  when  they 
were  thus  boasting  of  his  victory,  they  then  perceived  that 
Hopleus  and  Dymas  were  absent.  Sorrow  and  great  complaint 
grew  among  them,  when  they  did  not  see  those  men. 

As  regards  Theban  Amphion,  however,  he  came  forward  till 
he  reached  the  neighbourhood  of  the  camp;  and  when  he  saw 
the  huge  slaughters  of  the  Thebans,  silence  fell  upon  him 
greatly,  so  that  he  was  not  active  in  walking  about,  and  con- 
versations were  unsuitable  owing  to  the  extent  of  the  sorrow 
that  came  upon  him  as  he  saw  them;  and  he  turned  him  about 
forthwith  there,  and  came  back  to  Thebes. 

As  for  the  Greeks,  however,  they  went  actively  bitterly 
through  the  gates  of  their  camp  to  go  to  the  Thebans ;  and 
there  they  proceeded  through  the  middle  of  the  field  of  battle 
which  their  following  had  waged  the  night  before.  They,  on  the 
other  hand,  were  joyous  as  they  saw  how  all  the  houses  and 
dwellings  of  the  Thebans  were  being  demolished. 

Then  Capaneus  encouraged  the  Greek  soldiery  about  going 
to  make  a  strong  attack  on  Thebes,  and  this  is  what  he  said  to 
them:  "  Arise,  O  youths,"  said  he,  "along  with  me,  for  I  am  long 
in  raising  my  renown  and  my  great  power  by  the  sack  of  Thebes. 
For  my  white-hued  strong  right  hand  is  my  god,  and  it  is  my 
hard  heroic  sword  that  is  mighty  for  me."  And  when  he  had 
said  that,  Adrastus,  the  high-king,  arose  with  him  bravely 
261 


E.  46b  27  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  238b  36 

4065  Adraist  ant  aird?^'g  co  c?*oda  eurata,  -j   Poilinicseis  mor   mac    ^ 
Eidip  .i.  lokgsech  na  togla,  -j  Tiodonias  mac  Meinelampim,  -j  da 
mac  Iasoin   nn'c  Easoiw  .i.  Toas  -j   Aeuwios1,  -|  Agelleus  mac 
Earcail.    Et  tangadar  co  tren2  mórtina7esnach  co   muraib  na 
Teibi,  1  antan  rangadar  an  c&thraig,  is  ana"  dobai3  Ampiow 

4070  echtach  aga  indisi»  dona  Tiabandaib  a  faraireadha  do  marbad 
dona  Gregaib.  Et  dor[i]achtais  andsin  gas?-ada4  Greg  can 
rathubad8  co  mbeidis  ar  lar  na  Teibi,  minbad  an  mik'd 
menmnach6  Megareius  d'  iachtad  -j  d'  eigim  forra7  do  muraib 
na  cathrach,  -\  is  ed  doraidh  :  "  Duntar  -j  daingnigter  lib,  a  firu,"  492 

4075  ar  se,  "doirrsi  bar  cathrach,  -j  ataid8  bar  namaid  da  bar 
n-i»dsaigi9  .i.  sloig  menmnacha10  na  nGreg." 

Is  andsin  doeirgedar11  na  Tia,banda,-]  roiadsat  doirrsi  a  cathrach 
a  chédoir,  acht  sendorus  nama  .i.  Ogis ;    -j   dosiacht  Etio»   do  495 
Tiabandaib  a  a??mr  da  iadad12  a  n-agaid  na  nGreg,  -\  antan  robai 

4080  ca  dunadh,  rat/rrtallsad  ogbaid  arnaid13  Spartana  dul  tairis  ar 
eigi/i.  Is  andsin  rofhobair  Eichio»  co  feramcw'Z  iád,  co  rathuitsed 
treinfhir  ar  tairrseach  an  dorais  do  thres  an  Tiabanda  sin  daib 
.i.  Eicion.  Is  iad  so  fa14  ferr  dothuit  andsi/z  do  Gregaib  do  laira 
Eichio/i  .i.  Panapes  a  telchaib15  tonrfglasa  Taigeit,  -j  an  snamaigi 

4085  soinemail  o  sruth  Oureota16  .i.17  Ebah/s,  1  ant  airsid  engnamach 
Alcidamas18.    Et  fa  tren  a  tres19  an  locAia  sin  ar  tairsig  na  (p.  47) 
Teibe,gein  no  co  riachtadar20  an  dias  [s]o  do  Tiabandaib  d'  foirithiii  509 
Echtom  .i.  Acron  -j  Alme/ites,  cor-iadsad  ar  eigi?z21  an  don*s.   Et 
bá  hadbal  easbaid22  ceachtar  an  dá  sluag  sin,  uair  rofagbaid 

4090  drem23  do  Thiabandaib  ré  dorws  amuich  ré  teinde.'inaigi  rohiadad 
an  baili.  Rabadar  do/?o  drem  thall  do24  Gregaib  can  rochtaiw 
amach  dochum  a  munntiri,  uair  dothuitsed25  thall  isin  baili 
gaiscerfai'g  do  Gregaib  .i.  Ormenws26  -j  Amantur,  -j  rodichendad  515 

1  Eg.  Esain  .i.  Tous  7  Uenios  2  Eg.  tainic  na  fir  sin  co  tren  3  Eg.  rouái 
*  Eg.  Et  doriachtdais  gasraid  5  Eg.  rathug?<rf  E.  rathubad  6  Eg.  mina 
beth  in  milid  mor  m.  7  Eg.  eighem  forro  8  Eg.  7  ataid  sund 

9  Eg.  dar  uar  n-innsaigid  10  p]g.  sluag  menmnach  u  Eg.  sin  v  roeirgetar 
12  Eg.  aondorus  amain  .i.  Oigip  7  doriacht  Echion  do  T.  'na  aonar  da  iadhudh 
E.  iadag  13  Eg.  earnaiíí         14  Eg.  daib  ow....so  ua         1S  Eg.  a  tolchaibh 

10  Eg.  o  sruth  Eureta  17  E.  7  Eg.  .i.  18  Eg.  Alcadamas  19  Eg.  ua 
tren  tressa  20  Eg.  ar  tairsech...rancatar  21  Eg.  cu  rroiadsat  ar  hecin 
22  Eg.  essbaidh  23  Eg.  trein  24  Eg.  thall  dona  25  Eg.  rotoitsit 
26  Eg.  ghaiscid  Grec  .i.  CarmaenHx 

2Ó2 


THE  THEBAID 

heroically,  and  great  Polynices  son  of  Oedipus,  to  wit,  the  exile 
of  the  siege;  and  Thiodamas  son  of  Melanippus,  and  the  two 
sons  of  Jason  son  of  Aeson,  to  wit,  Thoas  and  Euneos,  and 
Agylleus  son  of  Hercules.  And  these  men  came  strongly  in 
great  haste  to  the  walls  of  Thebes,  and  when  they  reached  the 
city,  there  was  puissant  Amphion  relating  to  the  Thebans  that 
their  watchers  had  been  slain  by  the  Greeks.  And  Greek 
soldiery  arrived  there  unobserved,  and  would  have  stood  in  the 
midst  of  Thebes  were  it  not  that  the  spirited  soldier  Megareus 
yelled  and  shouted  at  them  from  the  walls  of  the  city,  and  this 
is  what  he  said:  "  0  men,"  said  he,  "  let  the  gates  of  your  city 
be  shut  and  strengthened  by  you,  seeing  your  enemies  are 
attacking  you,  to  wit,  the  spirited  hosts  of  the  Greeks." 

Then  the  Thebans  arose,  and  shut  the  gates  of  their  city 
forthwith,  save  one  door  only,  to  wit,  Ogygiae;  and  Echion, 
a  Theban,  arrived  alone  to  shut  it  against  the  Greeks;  and 
when  he  was  shutting  it,  the  stern  Spartan  youths  tried  to  go 
over  him  by  force.  Then  Echion  attacked  them  manfully,  so 
that  champions  fell  on  the  threshold  of  the  gate  from  the 
skirmish  of  that  Theban  with  them,  to  wit,  Echion.  The  best  of 
the  Greeks  that  fell  there  by  the  hand  of  Echion  are  these,  to 
wit,  Panopeus  from  the  green-surfaced  hills  of  Taygetus,  and 
the  distinguished  swimmer  from  the  river  Eurotas,  to  wit, 
Oebalus;  and  the  puissant  veteran  Alcidamas.  And  strong  was 
the  battle  of  that  folk  on  the  threshold  of  Thebes,  till  these  two 
Thebans  arrived  to  help  Echion,  to  wit,  Acron  and  Ialmenides, 
and  they  shut  the  gate  by  force.  And  huge  was  the  loss  of  each 
of  those  two  hosts,  for  a  crowd  of  Thebans  was  left  out  before 
the  gate  owing  to  the  haste  wherewith  the  town  was  closed. 
Also  there  was  on  this  side  a  crowd  of  Greeks  that  had  not 
arrived  outside  to  their  people,  for  on  this  side  fell  in  the  town 
Greek  heroes,  to  wit,  Ormenus  and  Amyntor,  and  that  lad  was 
263 


E.  47a  7  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  239b 


Theb. 


leosan1  an  gilla  sin,  uair  is  amlaid  vobai  -j  muintorc  alai/id  orda 

4095  'ma2  braigid. 

Imtitsa3,  immorro,  na  nGreg,  rothogladar  -j  rodians[c]aileadar 
mur  n-imeallach  na  Teibi4  risin  ré  sin,  *]  rodr?«dsed  andsin 
curaid  -j  coisigida  na  nGreg5  a  comfhogws  do  muraib  na 
cathrach.    Uair  ni  roichdis  a^i-echrada  tar  na  clascaib  coim-  522 

4ioolethna  robadar  'na  thimcheall.  Rabadar  dono  na  Tiabanda  ag 
dai/jgniubad  a  c&thrach,  coma  hadbal  fuaimnech  na  sabad  ag 
suidiugud8  tresna  slabradaib  ag  drud  -]  ag  dluthubadh7  na  comlad 
n-adbal  n-umaidi  ré  doirrsib  clochta8  cowdaiwgne  na  cathrach. 
Rabadar  do»o  drem   do   Gregaib  anrfsin  ag  dibragad  soigead 

4105  teintigi  a  mullaigib  tor  -j  tiged  na  Teibi  da  loscad.  Rabadar 
dono  drem  [ele  Eg.]  dib  'ca  togail  -j  'ca  tollad9  asa  hichtar  -j 
sceallbord10  do  sciathaib  'na  timcheall11.  Ralinsad  immorro  na 
Tiabanda  taibleda12  na  Teibi  do  didi??13  na  tor  -j  na  tigead.  Raba 
doilig14  fulang  fuithib  isin  uair  si»,  ar  imad  arm  n-examia15  ag 

41 10  dibragad  uaithib  dochum  na  nGreg.  Ratheilgsed16  slega  suain- 
mecha  sodibraigthi,  -j  soigde  imluatha  eitecha17,  -j  clocha  crwaidi 
comamais,  -j  mill  lanmora  luaidi ;  -|  ba  he  an  dlus  na  fras  si??. 
rotheilgsed18  na  Tiabanda  ag  didi?i19  a  cathrach,  cor-bó  comdluith 
ré  cethaib  cruaidi  clothneac/íía20  a  n-airm  1  a  n-ilfhaebair  ag 

4 1 1 5  buai??  dar  aigthib  sciath  -j  dar  cathbarraib  cruaidi  na  nGreg. 
Ni  har  time  na  ar  teichead  dochuaid  si??  dona21  Gregaib.    Acht 
tugsad  a  n-aigthi  co  dluith  -j  co  dichra  re  cnis  na  cathrach,  -j 
robadar  'ca  trentogail.    Is  andsi?)  dorala  Anteius  croda  c?i?-ata  544 
do  G?'ega?'6  ti??icheall  na  cathrach,  co  tarla  sleg  t?'om22  Tiaba??da 

4120  'na  uchtbrni??di  [da  indsaigid  Eg.],  co  ras?-ain  asa  charbad  amach 
é,  co  rabadar  a  chosa  a  Uenmaiw  a  rothaib  1  a  refedaib23  an  547 
charbaid,  -j  cor-timchill  an  cathraig  fon  samla  sin24,  -j  co  fuair 
bas25  arsin.    0  'dchonrfcadar  immorro  na  Greig  sin,  tugsad  gair 
badba  buaidirthi  os  aird,  -j  roseindid  a  sduicc  c?*oda  cathaigthi 

1  Eg.  leosum  2  Eg.  una  3  Eg.  Imthusa  4  Eg.  muir  imeAlaifi  an  uaile 
5  Eg.  coisigbi  na  Greci  6  Eg.  aca  snidiugud  7  Eg.  aca  ndrud  7  aca 

ndluthugud  8  Eg.  cloclulba  9  E.  togail  repeated  10  Eg.  scelluolc 

11  Eg.  na  timeheld  12  Eg.  taibhle  13  Eg.  diten  14  E.  doilid 

15  Eg.  ri  himut  arm  nbeesamla  i6  Eg.  uair  rotbelcdis  17  Eg.  ecbtacha 

18  Eg.  baédlus...rotheilcdís  ,9  Eg.  diten  20  Eg.  eloichncc/iia  -1  Eg.  caxadh 
na  nG....ac  na  2-  Eg.  a  tinicliell...troni?«  23  Eg.  redfedhaibh  24  Eg.  co 
ro-timchill  in  cbathair  amlaid  sin  25  Eg.  baas 

264 


THE  THEBAID 

beheaded   by  them,  for  thus  was  he  with    a   beautiful   gold 
necklace  about  his  neck. 

But  as  for  the  Greeks,  they  threw  down  and  swiftly  scattered 
the  boundary  wall  of  Thebes  during  that  time,  and  heroes  and 
foot-soldiers  there  pressed  close  .-to  the  walls  of  the  city.  For 
their  horsemen  could  not  reach  over  the  very  broad  moats  that 
were  around  it.  Also  the  Thebans  were  strengthening  their  city 
so  that  great  was  the  sound  of  the  bars  being  placed  through 
the  chains  closing  and  pressing  the  huge  brass  doors  against 
the  very  strong  stone  gateways  of  the  city.  Also  a  crowd  of 
Greeks  was  there  engaged  in  shooting  fiery  arrows  at  the  tops 
of  the  towers  and  houses  of  Thebes  in  order  to  burn  them. 
There  were  also  other  crowds  of  them  sacking  and  undermining- 
it  from  below,  with  a  tortoise  of  shields  round  them.  Moreover 
the  Thebans  filled  the  projecting  galleries  of  Thebes  in  order  to 
defend  the  towers  and  the  houses.  It  was  hard  to  endure  under 
them  at  that  time,  owing  to  the  abundance  of  various  weapons 
being  shot  by  them  at  the  Greeks.  They  hurled  thonged  well- 
poised  spears,  and  very  swift  winged  arrows,  and  hard  well- 
aiming  stones,  and  huge  lumps  of  lead ;  and  such  was  the 
density  of  those  showers  which  the  Thebans  hurled  in  defending 
their  city  that  their  arms  and  various  sharp  weapons  were 
as  thick  as  hard  showers  of  hailstones  striking  over  the  faces  of 
the  shields  and  over  the  hard  helmets  of  the  Greeks.  Not  to 
fear  or  flight  did  that  move  the  Greeks.  But  they  set  their  faces 
closely  and  earnestly  up  to  the  city,  and  they  were  strongly 
sacking  it.  It  was  then  it  came  to  pass  that  Antheus,  a  bold  and 
valorous  Greek,  went  round  about  the  city,  and  a  heavy  Theban 
spear  chanced  to  strike  him  in  his  breast  and  threw  him  out  of 
his  chariot,  and  his  feet  were  cleaving  to  the  wheels  and  ropes  of 
the  chariot,  and  he  compassed  the  city  in  that  manner,  and 
afterwards  died.  But  when  the  Greeks  saw  that,  they  uttered 
a  fierce  troubled  shout,  and  their  warlike  battle-trumpets  were 
265 


E.  47a  38  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  240«  3 

4125  leó,  -j  roroindsead  a  sluaga  ider  doirrsib  na  Teibe,  -j  robadar  'ca71^' 
dianscaileadn. 

Ba    hadfhuathmar    tra    re    heisteac/?£    isinn    uair    sestan    -| 
seisseilbi1   na  Tiabanda   sechnon   na  sencathrach   ar  med2  na  556 
heagla  ros-gab  risin  trenfhobairt  tucsad  na  Greig  ['na  timcell  563 

4130  Eg.],  1  rolinsad  tigi  -j  teampaill  na  cathrach  sin,  -j  robadar  ag 
duba  -j  ag  domenmai?!3  -j  ig  i??iraitib  ilearda  atarra.    Et  dobadar4 
drem  dib  andsi/?  ca  rada  an  rigi  do  thabairt  do  Poilinicseis  ré  580 
head  na  bUadna  sin  -j  Eitiocleis  do  cur  ara  char5  -j  ar  indarba  584 
uaithib.    Adubairt  drem  eili6  dib  nar-bo  choir  an  comairli  sin, 

41351  gid  hi  donidis,  na7  gebad  Polinicseis  uaithib,  no  co  tairsed 
forra  each  egoir8  doronsad  ris.    Acht  is  fair  desid  (col.  /3)  leo 
a  fisid9  fhireolach  da  thabairt  da  n-indsaigi  .i.  Tiresias10,  -\  firinrfe  589 
faistine  do  denam  doib. 

Is  andsin  doerig  Tiresias,  -j  doraid  ré11  a  vngin  .i.  re  Manta12 :  597 

4140  "Dena  altoir13  idbarta  duind,  a  ingen,  -j  fhado14  teinti."     Et 
dorigne15  in  ingen  si??,  no  co  tairnig  lé. 

Is  andsi?^  adces  taidbsi16  natAmch  ar  barr  uachtarach    na  601 
lasrach    roeirig   dona   teintib,  -j    is   tresin   ngniw?,   sin  rothuig 
Teresias17  fuagrad  na  faistine,  -j  rahadnad  é  andsin  o  fhis  ~\  o 

4M5  fhaistine.    Et  is  ed  doraidh18  risna  Tiahanda:    "Da  nde?-ntai 
each  ni  ader-sa  rib,  bud  lib  cosca?-  don  chur-sa,19  .i.  in  duine  as 
sO*  do  sil  Ch&ithim,  mic  Aigenoir,  d'  idbairt20  dona  deib,  *j  dobad  613 
mó21  cin  don  duine   sin   fortacht  -j    foirithi??    d'   fadbail  dona 
Tiahandaib  trena  bithi??." 

415°      Adchualaid  sin  Creon  c?irata  do  shil  calma  Caithin?,  -j  ragab  616 
eagla22  mór  hé  ar  bithi??,  uair  doshail  comad  hé  a  mac  fein 
nohidbortha  andsi?i  .i.  Meneti?is.    Uair  fa  he  sin23  fa  so  aco-sam  620 
don  shil24  rigda  do  claind  Chait/?im  im'c- Aigi??oir. 

Et  adbert  Créon  andsin  risi??  fisid25 :  "  Ceil  an  gnin?  sin,"  ar  se, 

4155  "  1  na  labair  ni  as  mó  é."    Rabai26  immorro  an  fisidh  na  thasd  ar 

1  Eg.  seston  seiseilbh  2  E.  secbnan...Eg.  ri  med  3  Eg.  domenmnachi/;* 
4  Eg.  rouatar  5  E.  A^VAOAfM  6  Eg.  adubrudar  drem  aile  7  Eg.  gidhedb 
donidis  nach  8  Eg.  toirisedh  furro  gacb  becoir  9  Eg.  acht  is  air  docindsedb 
•  leo  a  fisigb  10  Eg.  Terisias  u  Eg.  roraid  ri  12  Eg.  Mannto  13  Eg.  altora 
14  Eg.  fadógh  15  Eg.  doroine  16  Eg.  taibbsi  17  Eg.  sin  tutc  Tmsias 
18  Eg.  roraid  19  Eg.  chur  so  80  Eg.  iso...do  idhbairt  21  Eg.  ropo  mó  I.  mo 
22  Eg.  hecla  23  E.  uair  fa4  he  sin  Eg.  uair  ua  be  sin  2*  Eg.  ua  so  do  sil 
25  E.  fisigh  26  E.  nis  amó  e  raibai 

266 


THE  THEBAID 

sounded  by  them,  and  they  divided  their  hosts  among  the  gates 
of  Thebes,  and  they  were  swiftly  scattering  the  Thebans. 

Awful  indeed  to  listen  to  at  that  time  were  the  clatter  and 
tumult  of  the  Thebans  throughout  the  ancient  city,  owing  to 
the  greatness  of  the  fear  that  seized  them  at  the  strong  assault 
which  the  Greeks  delivered  round  about  them,  and  they  filled 
the  houses  and  temples  of  that  city,  and  they  were  involved  in 
sorrow,  dejection,  and  many  reflections  among  themselves.  And 
some  of  them  there  were  saying  that  the  kingdom  should  be 
given  to  Polynices  for  the  space  of  that  year,  and  Eteocles  put 
upon  his  agreement  and  driven  from  them.  Some  others  of 
them  said  that  counsel  was  not  proper,  and  though  they 
adopted  it,  that  Polynices  would  not  take  it  at  their  hands,  till 
he  could  bring  home  upon  them  every  injustice  they  had  done 
to  him.  But  they  decided  on  this,  that  their  very  skilful  wizard, 
to  wit,  Tiresias,  should  be  brought  to  them,  and  a  truthful 
prophecy  be  made  them. 

Then  Tiresias  arose  and  said  to  his  daughter,  to  wit,  Manto: 
"  Make  us  an  altar  of  sacrifice,  O  daughter,  and  light  fires."  And 
that  the  maiden  did,  till  it  was  finished  by  her. 

Then  was  seen  the  vision  of  a  serpent  on  the  highest  point 
of  the  flame  that  rose  from  the  fires,  and  through  that  occur- 
rence Tiresias  understood  the  burden  of  the  prophecy,  and  he 
was  illumined  there  by  vision  and  by  prophecy.  And  this  is 
what  he  said  to  the  Thebans:  "  If  ye  do  everything  that  I  shall 
tell  you,  victory  were  yours  at  this  time,  to  wit,  that  the 
youngest  man  of  the  seed  of  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor,  should 
be  sacrificed  to  the  gods;  and  it  would  be  a  blessing  for  that 
man  that  aid  and  help  for  the  Thebans  should  be  found  through 
his  means." 

Heroic  Creon  of  the  brave  race  of  Cadmus  heard  that,  and 
great  fear  seized  him  thereat,  for  he  thought  that  it  was  his 
own  son  that  would  be  offered  there,  to  wit,  Menoeceus.  For  he 
was  the  youngest  among  them  of  the  royal  seed  of  Cadmus,  son 
of  Agenor. 

And  then  Creon  said  to  the  wizard:  "Hide  that  fact  and 
speak  it  no  more."  Now  the  wizard  remained  silent  thereupon. 
267 


E.  47b  19  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  240*  37 

si».    Et  o  rabái,  ragabsad  Tiahanda  uili  a  n-venihecht  lama  air     *  ' 
am  thuilleadh  fhis  do  denam  doib. 

Raeirig  andsm   Teresias  -j   a  ingen    Manta1,  -j  ragabsad  fial 
falaid  tairsib2,  no  co  riachtador  co  hair?»  a  roibi  Meneitiiis  mac 

4i6oCreoi»,  -j  is  and  robái  an  gilla  i  dorus  do  doirsib  na  cathrach  -\ 
dirmata3  diairmigthi  do   Gregaib  ar   na  toitim   leis4  -]   Emo»  653 
echtach   a  brathair  ag  cathugud  arasn  ris  ancfeiw  a  comais  ar 
chena.    Ni  roibi  dib  nech   bad  aili5   na   bad   e/ergna  inas  an 
gilla6    sin    .i.    M'mceius,    -j    asbert    andsin    ris    Manto    ingen 

4165  Tire[siais]7 :  "A  gilla,"  ar  si8,  "  ataid  na  dei  'cot  iarraid  dod9 
t'   idbairb  daib  tar  cend  na  Tiahanda   uili,  -j   fagaib  an  corp 
tromda  talmanda  [atai  Eg.],  uair  is  ferr  duit  beith10  i  /m-iwgnaib  *di~qi 
roglanaib  richid11  ar  t'  edparid  dar  cend  t'  atharda."    Raffem-sam  665 
[trá  Eg.]  sin  on  ingin,  uair  ba  maisi  leiss  a  oiged  fern  ar  socar 

4i7od'  fadbail12  da  athurdaib,  -j  tainig  roime  co  tindesnach  co  lar- 
medon13  an  baili  d'  agallaim  a  mathar  -j  a  athar.  Et  o  rainig, 
robái  a  athcnr  'ga  agallaiz/i,  -j  is  ed  roraid  ris :  "  A  mic,"  ar  se, 
"  na  herig  in  turns  teigi,  uair  is  breg  uili  each  ni  raidis14  Teresias 
[rit  Eg.]."    Nir-fasm  immorro  Menetiits  anad15,  ge  rabai  a  athair  720 

4175  aga  fhastod,  -j  tug  ceilg  ima  a  athair,  -j  is  ed  doraid  ris:  "  Ni 
risin  toisc  sin  tWallaim  dul1G  ik'r,"  ar  se,  "  -j  ni  hed  rom-greisfed17 
Tiresias  da  rad  rim.   Acht  is  ed  roimluaid18  mo  brathair  do  gxxin  725 
do  Gregaib  .i.  Emo/i19,  -j  a  nirt  eisimail  tugsad  uaithib  he,  -j 
erigid-siu20  'na  agaid,  uair  is  comfogus  bas  do,  -j   ag  so  misi 

4180  d'  iarraid  an  primlega  .i.  Eicion21  da  indsaigid."  Radeiligsead 
amlaid  si??,  -\  tai??ig  Creon  roime  co  CMmthach22  cuntabartach 
d'  iarraid  a  mic  eli. 

Meniceius  immorro  o  radealaig  a  athair  ris  amlaid  sin,  tainig  757 
roime  co  trice  tincfosnach  no  co  ndechaid  ar  mur  na  cathrach, 

4185 1  o  rasiacht,  ralabair  o  some23  gotha  moir,  -j  is  ed  asbert24 :  "  A  dei 
da  tabraim-si  me  fern,"  ar  se,  "  tabraid  eigin  coscar  an  chatha25  765 

1  Eg.  Terisias...Mannto  2  Eg.  tharsa  a  Eg.  dfirmanda  4  Eg.  ar 

toitim  lais  5  Eg.  a  comais  ar  chena  om.... nech  a  comaisi  bad  aille  6  Eg.  na 
n  gilla  7  Eg.  Terisias  8  E.  se  9  Eg.  atait,  cut,  dot  10  Eg.  a  ueth 
11  Eg.  rightighi  l2  Eg.  do  fhagoiZ  13  Eg.  mecioin  14  Eg.  turus 

triallai...raidhis   E.  raigis  15  Eg.  Nir-faom  in  mac  anadh  "  Eg.  dula 

17  Eg.  ni  hedh  T.  rom-gressadh   E.  rom-gabreisfed  18  Eg.  rom-imluigh 

19  Eg.  Emion  20  Eg.  tucus-fs]a...erigh-sium  21E.Echion  22  Eg.  cumachtach 
23  Eg.  rolauair  o  soine        24  Eg.  isbert        2S  Eg.  coscoir...an  chatha  out. 

268 


THE  THEBAID 

And  since  he  did,  all  the  Thebans  at  once  entreated  that  a 
further  vision  should  be  made  them. 

Then  arose  Tiresias  and  his  daughter  Manto,  and  took  over 
them  a  hiding  vail  till  they  reached  the  place  where  was 
Menoeceus,  son  of  Creon;  and  there  was  the  lad  in  one  of  the 
doors  of  the  city,  with  innumerable  crowds  of  Greeks  that  had 
fallen  by  him,  and  puissant  Haemon  his  brother  and  his  coeval 
besides,  fighting  along  with  him  there.  There  was  none  of  them 
more  beautiful  or  wiser  than  that  lad,  to  wit,  Menoeceus.  And 
then  Manto  daughter  of  Tiresias  said  to  him:  "  Lad,"  said  she, 
"the  gods  are  asking  thee  to  be  sacrificed  to  them  for  the  sake  of 
all  the  Thebans.  And  do  thou  leave  the  dull  earthly  body  in 
which  thou  art,  for  it  is  better  for  thee  to  be  in  the  very  bright 
wandere-  of  heaven  after  being  sacrificed  for  thy  fatherland." 
He  accordingly  accepted  that  from  the  maiden;  for  an  honour,  it 
seemed  to  him,  was  his  own  fate  in  order  to  gain  an  advantage 
for  his  countrymen.  And  he  proceeded  in  haste  to  the  middle 
of  the  town  to  interview  his  mother  and  his  father.  And  when 
he  came,  his  father  was  addressing  him,  and  this  is  what  he 
said  to  him:  "Son,"  said  he,  "do  not  begin  the  journey  on 
which  thou  goest,  for  everything  Tiresias  feeHs-thee  is  all  a  lie." 
But  Menoeceus  might  not  stay,  though  his  father  was  detaining 
him,  and  he  practised  deceit  on  his  father,  and  this  is  what  he 
said  to  him :  "  Not  on  that  errand  do  I  essay  to  go  at  all,"  said 
he,  "  and  it  is  not  that  that  would  urge  me,  that  Tiresias  should 
speak  to  me.  But  this  has  impelled  me  that  my  brother,  to  wit, 
Haemon  is  wounded  by  Greeks,  and  by  dint  of  fovow  they  gat 
him  from  them ;  and  do  ye  go  to  him,  for  death  is  nigh  him,  and 
here  am  I  #3  ask  the  chief  leech,  to  wit,  Aetion,  to  attend  him." 
They  separated  thus,  and  Creon  advanced  sorrowfully  and 
doubtingly  to  seek  his  other  son. 

Menoeceus,  however,  when  his  father  had  separated  from  him 
in  that  manner,  proceeded  actively  and  in  haste,  till  he  arrived 
at  the  wall  of  the  city,  and  when  he  had  reached  it,  he  spoke 
with  the  distinction  of  a  loud  voice,  and  this  is  what  he  said: 
"  O  gods!  to  whom  I  give  myself,"  said  he,  "vouchsafe  indeed 
269 


E.  47b  49  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  24  ia  1 

1  an  tachair-si   uaib  do  Thiahandaib.    Toirrnid1   -j   trascraidhlhxeb' 
(p.  48)  gasrada  [gruadhglana  Eg.]  Grec  ar  co  tsethsad  leo-sum 
iád."    0  daraid-sium2  sin,  roleig  eislind3  a  chuirp  'ma  chru&d- 

4190  rind4  a  chlaidi???  coma,  forderg  fuilidi  mur  na  cathrach  da  fuil5 
-j  da  indib.     Rugsad  na  Tiabanda  a  chorp  chucu  anund  isin  783 
cathraig,  -\  raf  hagsad  hé  a  tig  a  athar  ar  ndenam  a  admolta6  790 
a  cheapoigi  cai/?tige,  -\  dochuadar  rompo  dochum  an  chath[a] 
ar  sin. 

4195      Raeig,  immorro,  -j  roiacht  a  mathair  os  cind  an  gilla7,  -j  is  ed  772 
roraid :  "  Ba  dimain  damsa  trá  a  mhic,"  ar  si8,  "vol   aileamain 
co9  honorach    ort,  -\   nir  chosmail    mo  chlan??  -j  clan»   colach 
Iochasta,  ge  ramarbad  mo  mac-sa  -j  a  mic-si  co  slan  .i.  Eidiocleis 
1  Polinicseis."    Et  robai-si  ar  na  himraitib  sin  no  co  tangadar  a 

4200  munnter  da  hindsaigi  -j  go  rugsad  leo  ana10  tech  leptha  hi,  -j  817 
rabadar  'ca  coimdingnad  and. 

0  rabadar  na  Tiabanda  risna  gni?»aib  sin,  rogreis  an  trenmiho' 
Capaneiws  gasraid  na  nGreg11  dochum  dorais  na  Teibi,  -j  imasai12  830 
fein  fo  na  sluaghaib,  -j  rothimchill  -j  rot/Vascair  marcacha  na 

4205  Tiabanda13.  Rathanaid  -j  rotrenmarb  na  curaid  co/icingdis  da 
cois  im  doirrsib  na  cathrach. 

Cid  tra  acht  fa  trascairthi14  tuir  -j  tigi  dona  cairrgib  comora  837 
rodibraigead  an  trenfer  si??  isin  catAraig,  -j  ba  brathbristi  buidne 
da  benándaib  claidim  an  ciwad  si/i,-]basuaichi?iti15slesa  saBrchland 

4210  arna  sarguin  ona  slegaib  roteilgead.  Et  is  ed  ba  samalta  ré 
Tiabanda  andsi??  conia  hiad  na  secht16  rigmilid  do  Gregaib 
dothuit  leo  na  beidis  a  n-senfhec/ii  aga  dimchillad"  -j  aga 
trenmarbad  donn  a3??fhuabairt  sin  tug  Capaneiws  oirtho18.  Uair 
is  cunia  romarbad  iad  ider  og  -j  shen,  mnaib  -j  mindaimb,  co  na19 

42i5handais  curaid  na  cathmih'd  ara  chind20  do  contrag  ris,  1  coma 
hadf'huath  ré  each  nduine  seal  ar-sithsillead  ré  méd  a  grai»e  an 
Gregda  sin. 

Cid  tra  acht  ni  ba  tualaiiig  fisid21  na  fire[ol]ach  admolad  827 
echta22  in  fhir  sin,  mana  beidis  na  dei  co  duthrachtach    ca 

1  Eg.  toirnírí  E.  toimig  2  Eg.  o  raidh-sium  3  Eg.  a  eislind  4  Eg.  uo 
chruaidhrind  5  Eg.  fhuil  6  Eg.  adhmolta  7  Eg.  gilla  sin  8  E.  arse 
Eg.  ar  si  9  Eg.  cho  10  Eg.  ina  "  Eg.  gasraid  Grec  12  Eg.  imasaidh 
13  Eg.  muir  cathracha  na  Teue  l*  Eg.  rothraseartait  15  Eg.  suaichinta 

16  Eg.  rotelcdis...E.ceit/iri  Eg.  vii     17  Eg.  timehellad     18  Eg.  furro     19  Eg.  co 
nach     20  E.  asa  chind   Eg.  ara  cind      21  Eg.  nir  uo...E.  fisig      22  Eg.  engnuma 

270 


THE  THEBAID 

victory  in  this  battle  and  fray  to  Thebans.  Depress  and  over- 
throw Greek  soldiers  that  they  may  fall  by  us."  When  he  had 
said  that  he  rushed  a  vulnerable  part  of  his  bod}'  on  the  hard 
point  of  his  sword  so  that  the  wall  of  the  city  was  red  and 
bloody  with  his  blood  and  entrails.  The  Thebans  fetched  his 
body  from  outside  into  the  city,  and  left  him  in  his  father's 
house  after  extolling  him  in  an  elegiac  quire-song;  and  they 
proceeded  unto  the  battle  thereafter. 

But  his  mother  cried  and  screamed  over  the  lad,  and  this  is 
what  she  said:  "Vain  indeed  for  me,  O  son,"  said  she,  "was  my 
bringing  thee  up  honourably ;  and  unlike  are  my  children  and 
the  sinful  children  of  Jocasta,  though  my  son  has  been  slain,  and 
her  sons  are  safe,  to  wit,  Eteocles  and  Polynices."  And  she  con- 
tinued in  those  reflections  till  her  people  came  to  her  and  brought 
her  with  them  to  her  bed-chamber,  and  were  comforting  her 
there. 

When  the  Thebans  were  engaged  in  those  deeds,  the  stout 
soldier  Capaneus  urged  the  soldiers  of  the  Greeks  unto  the  gate 
of  Thebes,  and  he  turned  himself  about  upon  the  hosts,  and  he 
encompassed  and  overthrew  the  horsemen  of  the  Thebans.  He 
thinned  and  starkly  slew  the  heroes  that  used  to  march  near 
him  about  the  gates  of  the  city. 

Nay,  towers  and  houses  were  overthrown  by  the  very  great 
stones  which  that  champion  continued  to  cast  into  the  city,  and 
troops  were  fatally  broken  by  that  hero's  sword-strokes,  and  well 
marked  were  the  sides  of  noble  scions  severely  wounded  by  the 
spears  he  threw.  And  this  was  what  seemed  likely  to  Thebans 
there  that  the  seven  Greek  royal  soldiers  would  have  fallen  by 
them,  if  they  hadAbeen  at  one  time  encompassing  and  starkly 
slaying  frho-m  at  that  same  attack  which  Capaneus  made  upon 
them.  For  indifferently  he  used  to  slay  them,  both  young  and  old, 
women  and  little  folks,  so  that  no  heroes  or  battle-soldiers  would 
stay  to  meet  and  fight  with  him ;  and  that  Greek  was  a  terror 
to  every  mortal,  the  while  he  was  steadily  contemplated,  owing 
to  the  extent  of  his  frightfulness. 

Nay,  no  wizard  or  true  man  of  skill  had  been  able  to  extol  the 
prowess  of  that  man,  had  not  the  gods  been  earnestly  bringing  it 
271 


E.  48a  32  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  24ia  33 

4220  degcuimneachadh  daib.    Et  is  é  méd  na  menraan  rus-gab  cun    ^  " 
chathugnd1  conar-ba  miad  na  maisi  leis  tac[h]a[r]2  ré  trebaib 
an    talman    acht   re    deib3    nuaglana   nime.     Et    rabái    andsin 
Capaneius  ag  fegadh  arin  n-aer4  n-ard  n-anfenach  osa  chind, 
1  adchonaairc  da  ralaig  mbeaca5  ai/nreidi  coniard  ré  cloich  na 

4225  cathrach   a  comfhogus  do,  -|   is  ed  doraid-sin?n6  andsin:   "Ni 
leigeand7  am  mo  mormenma  dam,"  ar  se,  "  can  dreim  riu  so,  845 
co    fi?idar    ona    deib   an    ba    tarba   do    Thiabandaib  an   dui?;e 
ramarbsad   'na  n-anoir8,  -]   co  fi[n]dar9   an   fuilid   na   dei   fern 
do  niadh  no  do  nirt10."    Et  rodring11  co  subach  forfailid12  asa 

4230  haithli  si»  co  mullach  mur  na  cat//rach. 

Sochtais  immorro   ar  Thiaba/icZa13  'ca  fhaigsi?i  'na14  sduaig  853 
Sigmair  urbadaig  &mal   nothisadh  an  la  buaidirthi  bratha  do 
murad  a  c&thrach.  'na  cendaib,  -j  gid  ead  tugsad  a  n-aigthi  air, 
1  rodibraigsed15  he  a  tigib  -|  a  taibledaib  na  Tebe  do  railgib 

4235  romora  -|  do  chlochaib  comamais16. 

Fgelait-sium  trá  na  frasa  firmora  sin  confertais  na  (col.  yS)  fir 
fair17,  -j  cothaigis  and  amaZ  charraig  coinmei't  iter  buindedaib 
ruadha18  rabarta  na  saebsruth  aga  sitladh19,  -j  o  rascmVsed  na  865 
Ti&banda  na  f/-«sa  sin  de,  ragab-sam  ag  tainsium  •]  ag  tarcaisi20 

4240  moir  forro.    Doraid21  riu  :  "  Cuich  ar  bad  tor,"  ar  se,  "  na  muir  873 
thana22  Tiabanda-sa  do  thra&grad  -j  do  thoirnem  [dochum  lair23 
Eg.]  ? "    Et  c«??ia  adbert  sin  -j  rat^/'ascair  na  crandoga  com- 
daigne24   claraid25  -j   na   taidbli  deaftha   badar  bar  mur26  na 
cat/*  rach  a  cendaib  na  Tiaba^rfa,  -|  rabai  tra  fan  samla  sin  ag 

4245  t?-c/sgrad  na  Teibi  da  mur  -j  da  mullach.  882 

Is  andsin  dono  robada?^  caraid  c/íw-mac/ííach[a]  na  Tiaba??f?a27 

1  caraid  chumacht&cha  na  nGreg  ag  agallaim  Ioif,  nu'c  Saduirn, 

-]  each  dib  ag  iarraid  fhoirithne28  da  charaid.    Is  iad  trá  robai 

andsin  a[c]  congnam  ré  Tiabanda  .i.  Apaill  uasal,  mac  Ioif,  -j 

1  Eg.  is  i  met... rus-gab  a  concathugud  sin      2  Eg.  lais  tach&r      3  Eg.  ri  deibh 
4  Eg.  fegai»  arin  aoir  6  Eg.  mbeca   E.  inbeacha  6  Eg.  roiaid-sium 

7  Eg.  ni  leicinn  8  Eg.  in  ua  tarua...'na  onoir  9  E.  co  fbidar  10  Eg.  do  ni 
no  nirt  "  Eg.  rodreim  12  Eg.  forbfailú?  13  Eg.  v  na  T.  14  Eg.  aca 
faicsin  ina  15  Eg.  7  ger-u  edb...rodibraigbsit  16  E.  taiblegaib...Eg.  comamuis 
17  Eg.  conferdis  na  Tiabanda  fair  18  E.  ruaga  19  Eg.  aca  sithleodh 

20  Eg.  tarcusne         21  Eg.  7  is  ed  roraid  22  Eg.  toir  itir  ar  se  na  mmur  tana 

23  Eg.  dochum  lair?  24  Eg.  comdaiíígne  25  E.  claraig  M  Eg.  ar  muraibh 
27  Eg.  rouatar  cuniachta,  ra  Téue  28  Eg.  fo;-idbthi# 

272 


THE  THEBAID 

to  their  good  remembrance.  And  such  was  the  greatness  of 
mind  that  seized  him  unto  war  that  he  thought  it  no  honour  or 
distinction  to  fight  with  the  tribes  of  the  earth,  but  with  strong 
bright  gods  of  heaven.  And  Capaneus  was  there  looking  at  the 
high  stormy  air  over  his  head,  and  he  saw  near  him  two  small 
sturdy  oaks  as  high  as  the  stone-walls  of  the  city,  and  this  is  what 
he  said  there  :  "  My  great  mind  indeed  does  not  allow  me  to 
rest  without  climbing  these,  that  I  may  find  out  from  the  gods 
whether  the  man  they  killed  in  their  honour  were  an  advantage 
to  Thebans,  and  that  I  may  find  out  whether  the  gods  themselves 
consist  of  honour  or  of  strength."  And  he  climbed  joyously  and 
gladly  after  that  to  the  top  of  the  city  walls. 

But  silence  fell  on  Thebans  as  they  saw  him  a  warlike  baleful 
bow,  as  if  the  troubled  day  of  judgment  were  come  to  raze  their 
city  on  their  heads,  and  yet  they  set  their  faces  on  him,  and 
shot  at  him  from  the  houses  and  projecting  galleries  of  Thebes 
with  huge  oaks  and  well-aimed  stones. 

Now  he  sustained  those  very  great  showers  which  the  men 
were  pouring  on  him,  and  maintained  himself  there  like  a  firm 
rock  among  the  red  rushing  torrents  of  the  eddies  playing  upon 
him.  And  when  the  Thebans  discontinued  these  showers  from 
him,  he  set  about  abuse  and  great  contempt  of  them.  And  he 
said  to  them:  "  For  whom  might  these  slender  Theban  walls  be 
a  tower  to  be  destroyed  or  thrown  down  to  the  ground?"  And  no 
sooner  had  he  said  that  than  he  overthrew  on  the  heads  of  the 
Thebans  the  firm  structure  of  planking  and  projecting  galleries 
for  fighting  that  were  above  the  walls  of  the  city,  and  indeed  he 
was  in  that  way  overthroAving  Thebes  from  its  wall  and  from 
its  roof. 

Then  again  powerful  friends  of  the  Thebans  and  powerful 

friends  of  the  Greeks  were  addressing  Jove,  son  of  Saturn,  and 

each  of  them  asking  help  for  his  friend.    Now  it  was  they  that 

were  there  assisting  Thebans,  to  wit,  noble  Apollo,  son  of  Jove, 

c.  273  18 


E.  48b  12  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  24ib  30 

425oBeinir  b&nchumacht&ch,  7   Baich  brigach  borrfadach,  7   Ercail    x 
anrata1,  mac  Ioif.    Is  iád  immorro  rabái  a[c]  gabail  re  Gregaib 
.i.   Iunaind  ilchrothach    -j    Menarba  morch imiachtsxch2,   7   Pers 
pWmeolach  mac  Ioif,  7  Dane  ingen  ri[g]  G?*eg  a  mathair.    Rabái 
trá  Ioif  co  firen3  iter  an  lucht  sin  can  chungnam  ré  neach  seach 

4255  aroili  [dibh  Eg.]  gein  no  [co]  riacht  Capaneius  he,  7  is  ed  doraid 
Gs^aneius,  uair  ni  fhuair4  tachar  o  Thisibandaib  ait  a  mbai  ar 
mur  a  cathrach:  "  Cait  a  fhuilid  itir,"  ar  se,  "dee  meta  mert- 899 
necha  na  Tiabanda  .i.    Apaill    7    Baich    7    hErcail  ?  7    ni   da 
ngresacht,"  ar  se,  "  uair  ni  miadh5  Hum,  acht,  a  Ioif  chena," 

4260  ar  se,  "  as  rit-su  as  diwgmala  lium  tachar,  7  tarr  dom  indsaighi, 
masad  cumachtsiig  ar6  saignenaib." 

0  'dchualaid  Ioif  sin,  tibis  gen  gairi,  7  raid[is]7  ar  sin:  "  Is  905 
granda  an  gresacht  daberi  foraind,  7  is  coir  t'  olc8  do  denam." 

Et  asa  haithli  sin  tug  Ioif  neoill  chiuine  cowdorcha  7  tuairseacha 

4265  tromfleachaidh  ar  dreich  thalman,  conar-ba  leir  tulcha  no  tigi  na 
Tiabanda  ism  tan  sin.  Et  tainig  tWd  sin  torand  bres  bresbratha 
uas  cind  na  Teibi  .i.  feib  co  ngluaised  firmaimint  asa  slat?'ach9 
-j  asa  suidiugud.  Rabai  immorro  Capaneiws  can  gluasac/ii  arin 
mur  risi[n],  gei?i  co  rasoillsigsead  saignena  temtighi  ag  tuitiw 

4270  [ar]  dreich  7  [ar]  tuagebair10  an  talmaw. 

Is  ed  doraid-siu?n  'ca  faigsivi11:   "Is  coir  immorro"  ar  se12,  925 
"  tenta  mar  so  d'  [f  h]acbail  do  Thisibandaib,  7  dogeb-sa  aithin- 
»eada   adanta13    7    dairgi    dossacha   ar   derglasad    anoss14   da 
ndibragad  doib."    Et  antan  rabái  Capa/ieiiis  ag  an  bogasach 

4275  briathar  sin,  darala  chuigi   soignen  crithrech.  corcorderg,  cor- 
chuir  a  chathbarr  da  chena715,  7  co  rascailt  a  sciath  o  bili  co 
bord,    7    co   rac/io??ilas  a   chorp   fei»    uile   o   chind    co    bond. 
Atchondcadar  na  catha  cec/?iarrda  sin,  -j16  roscuchsad  da  each  930 
leith  o  wiuraib  na  catArach  ar  i?ngabail  chuirp  an  chur&d  do 

428othoiti»i  forra.  Et  dorochair17  andsi»  Capaneius  tar  mur  na 
Teibi  amach,  co  roib18  sligi  a   chuirp  ar  na  loscadh  an  conair 

1  Eg.  anriata  2  Eg.  Iunand...Uenerbha  ardchumachtach  3  Eg.  co  firentai 
4  Eg.  roraidh  intan  nach  fuaiv  5  Eg.  nir  miadh  6  Eg.  masa  cumachtach 
ar  soighdibh  na  ar  "  Eg.  raidhis  8  Eg.  doberidh...th'  olc  "  Eg.  con- 
gluaisdis  na  firmaminti  asa  slaghdracft  10  Eg.  thuatebraib/i  u  Eg.  roraidh 
Capaneus  aca  faicsin  sin  la  Eg.  coir  am  ar  se  13  E.  aithinnega  aganta 
Eg.  tbithirmedha  adhanta  14  Eg.  anósa  15  Eg.  chind  16  Eg.  O 
'dchonncatar...;  om.         17  Eg.  adorchair        18  Eg.  co  raiui 

274 


THE  THEBAID 

and  powerful  Venus,  and  mighty  proud  Bacchus,  and  warlike 
Hercules,  son  of  Jove.  But  these  were  siding  with  Greeks,  to 
wit,  Juno  of  many  charms,  and  Minerva  of  great  might  and 
Perseus  of  chief  skill,  son  of  Jove,  and  Danae  daughter  of  a  king 
of  Greeks  was  his  mother.  Now  Jove  was  impartial  among  those 
peoples,  not  assisting  one  of  them  more  than  another,  till 
Capaneus  reached  him  and  this  is  what  Capaneus  said,  for  he  did 
not  obtain  battle  from  Thebans  where  he  stood  upon  the  wall 
of  their  city :  "  Where  are  ye  at  all,"  said  he.  "  ye  cowardly 
and  weak  gods  of  the  Thebans,  to  wit,  Apollo,  Bacchus,  and 
Hercules?  and  it  is  not  to  rally  them,"  said  he,  "for  it  is  not  worth 
my  while,  but,  O  Jove  in  particular,"  said  he,  "  it  is  with  thee 
I  think  it  worth  while  to  fight,  and  do  thou  come  to  meet  me,  if 
thou  art  powerful  over  thunderbolts."      ^j«  ^    <-  sLc  c*vi";f  CaJ2^) 

When  Jove  heard  that  he  laughed  a  derisive  laugh,  and  there- 
upon said  :  "  Grim  is  the  rally  thou  layest  upon  us,  and  it  is  right 
to  do  thee  harm."  And  after  that  Jove  brought  still  very  dark 
clouds  and  forebodings  of  heavy  wetting  on  earth's  face,  so  that 
the  hills  or  houses  of  the  Thebans  were  not  visible  at  that  time. 
And  through  that  came  great  doom-crashing  thunder  above 
Thebes,  to  wit,  as  if  it  were  moving  the  firmament  out  of  its 
foundation  and  position.  Capaneus,  however,  stood  unmoved 
thereat  upon  the  wall,  till  fiery  thunderbolts  lightened  up  as 
they  fell  upon  the  face  and  the  northern  edges  of  the  earth. 

This  is  what  he  said  on  seeing  it :  "  It  is  indeed  right,"  said 
he,  "  that  fires  like  these  should  be  left  for  Thebans,  and  now  I 
shall  get  lighted  torches  and  bushy  oaks  of  red  flame  to  shoot  at 
them."  And  when  Capaneus  was  in  that  word-complacency,  a 
quivering  purple-red  thunderbolt  chanced  to  reach  him,  and  sent 
his  helmet  from  his  head,  and  split  his  shield  from  rim  to  border, 
and  set  the  whole  of  his  own  body  aflame  from  head  to  sole. 
The  battalions  on  both  sides  saw  that,  and  they  withdrew  on 
every  side  from  the  walls  of  the  city  in  order  to  prevent  the 
hero's  body  from  falling  upon  them.  And  there  Capaneus  fell 
over  the  wall  of  Thebes  outwards,  so  that  the  path  of  his 
275  18-* 


E.  48b  40  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  242*  32 

rothuitt  do  mur  na  cathrach,  ~\  co  fhuair  bass  amlaid  si?;  0  x 
saignen  Ioif  ar  i[n]*  morbrethir  doraid  ina  agaid.  Et  roc/iomlas2 
an  mag  firalaind  ferach  ara  roibi  do  las?*aig3  a  chuirp.  Cid  tra 
4285  acht  fa  coir  dona  ci»eadaib  cuimniugitd4  gni??irad  an  gilla  sin 
1  dona  deib  a  admolad  da  eis,  [uair  ni  toit  fer  la  nert  cet  citradh 
in?'))  had  dei  do  dinguail  Eg.]. 


XI 

0  darochair5  tra  Capanerits,  rochuir  Ioif  mac  Saduirn  dorcata6   ^  * 
do  dreich   an   talman.     Rathimsaigsead    na    Tiahanda    uili    co 

4290  hseninad,  ~\  tangadar  a  mna  -j  a  macaim  a  tigib  -j  a  templaib, 
uair  nir-lamsad  eirgi  coruigi  sin  re  gairbthreas  C&ipaneuis  doib.  21 
Rameabaid  immorro  (p.  49)  do  Gregaib  andsin  on  ch&thraig,  -\ 
cena  ni  har  teithead  na  Ti&handa  sin,  acht  ar  eagla7  Ioif  mic 
Shaduirn  da  loscad  mar8  doloisc  Capaneii<s. 

4295      0    'dcondcadar    mih'd    menmnacha    chlaindi    Cait/tim    mic 
Aigenoir  sin,  ralensad  co  longp/iort  -j  co  lepthaib  iad,  -j  is  iad 
so  rolen  ar  tus  iad  do  Thiabandaib  na  Gregu9  .i.  Eourimedon  og 
anrata  mac  Pa?'»,  -j  Lapidus  lanchalma,  -]  a  mac  marseit  ris  .i.  34 
Alatriius10;   -j    rochuirsed   na  treinfhir  si»   ara11  aidbli  ar  na 

4300  Gregaib,  no  co  rangador  a  longpkort12.  Et  rabador  ag  forbais13 
forro  iarsi?^14.  Ba  hingnad  isirm  uair  sin  udmailli  na  tuicten, 
1  na  fir15  robadaf  isiwn  uair  roime  ag  forbais16  ar  na  Tiabanda 
beith  daib-sium  ag  fo?-bais  forro-sam17  a  chedo[ir]  o  rathuit 
C&paneius.    Et  is  iad  dothuit  ré  Tiabandaib  'ma  doirrsib  an 

4305  \ongphuirt  sin  an  ogbaid  thangador  a  catAroig  Ercail  a  sochraidi 
na  nGreg  no  cor-erig  ant  airsid18  engnama  .i.   Enipeiws,  -]  co  50 
raseind  sdocc  co?»airci19  dona  feraib  do  dul  isin  longphurt  anunn 
ar  teithed20  na  Tiabanda,  -j  mar  dobái  Enipeiws21  ag  seinm  a 
sduicc,  tarla  saigead  croda  corranach  da  indsaigid,  co  rus-fagaib 

4310  can  anmam,  -j  co  roibi  a  sdocc  fas  ag  fogrugud  da  [e]is.  56 

1  Eg.  o  soignenaib  tinntidhe...E.  I.  ar  ar  corr.  to  ar  an  2  Eg.  7  eo  rochomlas 
3  Eg.  do  la  sl'Aini-adh  4  Eg.  a  cuimniugud  a  5  Eg.  da  airis  uair...rodorchair 
6  Eg.  dorchata  7  Eg.  heclai  8  Eg.  amal  9  Eg.  Grec  10  Eg.  anriata... 
Alatrius  u  Eg.  aru  12  Eg.  longport  13  Eg.  forbaisi  14  E.  iarrsin  Eg.  andsin 
16  Eg.  na  toictin  .i.  na  fir  lfi  Eg.  forbaisi  17  Eg.  bith  dona  T.  ag  forbaisi 
form  fein  18  E.  airsig  19  Eg.  cor-seind  sdoc  comairc  20  Eg.  teicbed 
21  Eg.  7  mna  raibi  E. 

276 


THE  THEBAID 

body  was  illuminated  on  the  course  it  fell  from  the  city  wall,  and 
he  died  thus  by  a  thundei'bolt  of  Jove  for  the  great  word  he 
spoke  against  him.  And  the  very  beautiful  grassy  plain  on  which 
he  lay  blazed  with  the  flame  of  his  body.  Nevertheless  it  was 
right  for  the  nations  to  remember  the  deeds  of  that  lad,  and  for 
the  gods  to  extol  him  afterwards ;  for  a  man  with  the  strength 
of  a  hundred  heroes  would  not  have  fallen  were  not  gods  to  cast 
him  off. 


BOOK  XI 

Now  when  Capaneus  fell,  Jove  son  of  Saturn  sent  darkness  to 
the  face  of  the  earth.  The  Thebans  all  gathered  to  one  place,  and 
their  wives  and  children  came  from  houses  and  temples ;  for  they 
dared  not  rise  hitherto,  owing  to  the  fierce  fight  of  Capaneus 
against  them.  But  the  Greeks  then  withdrew  from  the  city;  and 
assuredly  that  was  not  in  order  to  flee  from  the  Thebans,  but  for 
fear  that  Jove,  son  of  Saturn,  might  burn  them  as  he  had  burnt 
Capaneus. 

When  the  spirited  soldiers  of  the  children  of  Cadmus,  son  of 
Agenor,  had  seen  that,  they  followed  them  to  camp  and  leaguers  ; 
and  these  are  they  of  the  Thebans  that  first  followed  the  Greeks, 
to  wit,  young  warlike  Eurymedon,  son  of  Pan ;  and  full-brave 
Lapithaon,  and  his  son  along  with  him,  to  wit,  Alatreus;  and 
those  champions  inflicted  huge  slaughters  on  the  Greeks,  till  they 
reached  their  camp.  And  they  continued  besieging  them  after- 
wards. Wonderful  at  that  time  was  the  fickleness  of  fortune, 
seeing  that  the  men  that  were  previously  besieging  the  Thebans 
should  be  forthwith  besieged  by  them  when  Capaneus  fell.  And 
it  was  these  that  fell  before  Thebans  round  about  the  gates  of 
that  camp — the  youths  that  came  from  the  city  of  Hercules  in 
the  army  of  the  Greeks,  till  the  veteran  of  prowess  arose,  to  wit, 
Enyeus,  and  blew  a  warning  trumpet  to  the  men  to  cross  over 
into  the  camp  in  order  to  escape  from  the  Thebans.  And  as 
Enyeus  was  blowing  his  trumpet,  a  cruel  barbed  arrow  chanced 
to  come  to  him,  and  left  him  lifeless,  and  his  empty  trumpet  was 
sounding  after  him. 

277 


E.  49a  1 8  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  242b  32 

Comrag  rig  na  Teibi  -j  rig  na  togla  andso  .i.  da  mac  Eidip  .i.   xGj 
Poilinicseis  mor  -j  Eitiocleis  óg  anrata1. 

Is  andsin  roerig  an   badb   gra[n]na   geranach    thinrfesnach  58 
thuasanach    .i.    Tisipone,    a    hichtar   ifirn,    do    thendad    7    do 

4315  thmnwus  na  da  derhraihar2  sin  a  cend  aroili  .i.  Eitiocleis  7 
Pulinicseis.  Et  o  nar-sail-si3  a  rochtai/i  lé  a  hsenar  fuailfed  feirgi 
na  deisi  sin  do  thabairt  os  aird,  raleig  gairm  ard  adfhuat&mar* 
ara  siairmengaig  michuirtig5  .i.  Megera,  7  o  'dchualttic?  Megera 
sin,doerig6  co  hathlam  a  haitib  islib7  anaibne  Oirc,  7  o  dariacht 

4320  dochum  a  sethar,  asbert  fWa  Tisipoiwe:  "Misi  docAomor  na 
catha8  cos  aniu,"  ar  si,  "  iter  an  lucht9  sin,  7  ber-si  do  roga 
anois  cia  dib  gresfi10  dochum  an  chatha.  Acht  chena  is  cora 
Eitiocles  do  legad11  dain-sa,  uair  is  aigi  ata  a  mathair  7  a  shiur 
ac  astad,  -j  imtig-siu12  romad  dochum  [longphuirt  na  nGrec  Eg.] 

4325  an  loingsig  VoWniceis  da  trengresac/íí."    Rascar  thrá  each  dib  113 
re  'roili13  andsi?i  co  firluath  foluaimneach,  7  táinig  Megera  roimpi 
dochum  VoMniceis,  7  ragab  deilb  a  baneheili  iwirú  .i.   Argia 
ingine1*   Adraist.    Et  is   and    dorala    Poli/wces   di   go   dubach  142 
dobronach  a  ndonts  an  longphuirt,  7  snim  7  sirimradud16  an 

4330  chatha  co  mor  ara  menmai»,  7  cuma,  a  charat  cAomaind  air  .i. 
Titt  lnic  JE/iiasa16.  0  'dchonrfairc-sii(r?i  andsin  Megera,  7  si  a 
richt  a  bancheli,  ba  hingnad  leis,  7  asbert  fKa:  "  Cred  teigi17,  a 
ingen,"  ar  se,  "7  ca  toirrsi  ara-tai  ?  "  Ni  thug  si  fregra  aiv-sium, 
1  o  na  tug  fregra  air18,  dothuig  cur-ba  taibsi  sin.   Uair  nir-shail 

4335  a  baneheili  fein  do  ihovachtain  o  gortaib19  Greg  conuigi  sira  da 
inrfsaigid.  Et  gid  ead  robuaidir  an  badb  sin  Poli?w'ces  coma  ferr 
leis  cath  7  congal20  d'  fagbail  isi/m  uair  sin  ina  rigi  7  naithius  ar 
an  Teib  tondglas  cona  tuathaib  togaidi.  Et  rainig  roime  co 
tino'esnach  d'  agallaim  a  clemna  .i.  Adraisd21,  7  is  ed  d'araid  ris: 

4340"  As  fada22  dam-sa,"  ar  se,  "  cor-chin/m<s  cowiairli  (col.  /3)  tar  eis  155 


1  Eg.  Comrac  da  mac  Eidhip  andso  sis  2  Eg.  tennudh  7  do  tbule&ugnd 

in  da  bratbar  3  Eg.  o  n&r-sail-sium  4  Eg.  n-adbfuthniair  n-aird 

8  Eg.  micdig  6  Eg.  roeirigb  »  Eg.  isli  8  Eg.  rocomor  eatba 

9  Eg.  iter  in  lucbta  10  Eg.  gresfa  "  Eg.  do  lice/i  12  Eg.  a  dha  sbiair 
ica  fbastud  7  imidbsi  13  Eg.  each  o  celt  14  Eg.  ingine  oXaind  16  E.  -radug 
16  Eg.  Tit  aga  traethad  17  Eg.  tici  l3  Eg.  nacb  frecair  dó  19  Eg.  thorocbtain 
o  gartaibh  20  Eg.  catb  7  comrac  21  Eg.  do  indsaigbid  a  clemna  .i.  A. 
7  rogbabb  'ga  acallaim             22  Eg.  Acus  is  fada 

278 


THE  THEBAID 

The  conflict  of  the  king  of  Thebes  and  the  king  of  the  siege 
here,  to  wit,  the  two  sons  of  Oedipus,  to  wit,  great  Polynices,  and 
young  warlike  Eteocles. 

Then  arose  the  hideous,  complaining,  hustling,  pursuing  god- 
dess, to  wit,  Tisiphone  from  the  depths  of  hell,  to  urge  and 
incite  those  two  brothers  against  one  another,  to  wit,  Eteocles 
and  Polynices.  And  since  she  did  not  hope  to  succeed  by  herself 
alone  in  stirring  up  the  fury  of  the  anger  of  those  two,  she 
uttered  a  loud  awful  cry  for  her  treacherous  uncourtly  sister,  to 
wit,  Megaera.  And  when  Megaera  heard  that  she  arose  actively 
from  the  low  places  ufthe-  rivoi-  of  Orcus,  and  when  she  reached 
her  sister  Tisiphone,  she  said  to  her  :  "  It  is  I  that  have  promoted 
the  battles  till  to-day,"  said  she,  "  between  those  peoples ;  and 
now  do  thou  take  thy  choice  which  of  them  thou  wilt  incite  unto 
the  battle.  Nevertheless  it  is  more  proper  to  allow  me  Eteocles ; 
for  he  has  his  mother  and  his  sister  detaining  him,  and  do  thou 
proceed  to  the  camp  of  the  Greeks,  to  the  exile  Polynices,  in 
order  to  incite  him  strongly."  Each  of  them  parted  from  the 
other  very  swiftly  on  the  wing  there,  and  Megaera  came  forward 
to  Polynices,  and  assumed  the  form  of  his  spouse,  to  wit,  Argia, 
daughter  of  Adrastus.  And  then  Polynices  chanced  to  meet  her 
gloomily  and  sadly  before  the  camp,  with  the  anxiety  and  the 
constant  thinking  about  the  battle  greatly  on  his  mind,  and 
sorrow  for  his  intimate  friend  upon  him,  to  wit,  Tydeus,  son 
of  Oeneus.  When  he  saw  Megaera  there,  she  being  in  the 
likeness  of  his  spouse,  he  wondered,  and  said  to  her :  "  Where- 
fore comest  thou,  O  maiden,"  said  he,  "and  what  is  the  sadness 
that  lies  upon  thee?"  She  gave  him  no  answer;  and  since  she 
gave  him  no  answer,  he  understood  that  that  was  a  vision.  For 
he  did  not  hope  that  his  own  spouse  had  come  hither  from  the 
cornfields  of  Greeks  to  visit  him.  And  yet  that  goddess  troubled 
Polynices,  so  that  he  preferred  to  find  battle  and  conflict  at  that 
time  rather  than  kingship  and  sovereignty  over  green-surfaced 
Thebes  with  its  choice  tribes.  And  he  came  forward  in  haste  to 
address  his  father-in-law,  to  wit,  Adrastus,  and  this  is  what  he 
said  to  him :  "  It  is  late  for  me,"  said  he,  "  that  I  have  decided 
279 


E.  49b  i  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  243b  3 

mo  charad,  -j  dursan  nach  and  doronus  comairli  -j  mo1  brathcuV   XI 
an   cetla  tangadar  Greig  dochum  na  Tebi,  ré  siu  dofsetsad  a 
dorchair   adraiwd2.    Et   dogen-sa   anoissi,"   ar   se,    "comrac   -j  185 
Eitiocles,  -j  na  toirmisc-siu  umma  a  denam3.    ^íslainti  duitsi,  a 

4345  airdrig,    tar   m'eis   -j    do   maithib   na   nGreg4   ar   chena."    Ba  193 
comthoirrseach  tra  na  curaid  don  cheleabrad  sin  Polimceú,  -j 
dobai  Adraisd  'ca  choimdignad  -[  'ca  fhastod5,  -j  nir-an-sam  aigi, 
uair  dobai6  an  bodb  aga  buadread7  .i.  Megera,  -]  is  ed  aderid  ris: 
"  Xa  fumg8,  a  gilla,"  ar  si,  "  -7  ata  do  brathatV  Eitiocles  agad 

435°  tograim  -j  ag  tindiniis9  do  comr&g  -j  do  co?nlan»  rit."   Is  andsifl 
immorro  doerig  Folinices  co  trice  tindesnach,  -\  rogreis  a  each10 
dar  muigib  minreidhi11,  no  co  rainig  cathraig  na  Teibi. 
Dala  Foliniceis12  conuigi  sin. 
Imthwsa  Eitiocleis  rig  na  Teibi  is  amlaid  dobai13  ag  denam 

4355  idbarta  anorach14  do  Ioib  mac  Saduirn  tar  chend  choscair  do 
Thi&bandaib,  -j  robai  ag  slondad  charadraid15»Ioif  -j  na  Tiabanda. 
Et   antan   rabai   amlaid  si»    Eitiocles  ag  denam   na  n-idbart, 
rosceind  crithel  chirdub   do   teinid16  na  hidbarta,  co  raloisc  a  226 
chathbarr  -j  ghruad  an  righ.    Et  o  robai-si;//»17  amlaid  si»,  tainig 

4360  techtairi  co  tren  -j  co  tindesnach  da  indsaigid  .i.  Efithus,  -j  is  ed  240 
doraid  ré  hEtiocles :  "  Toirwisg  co  luath  na  hidbarta,"  ar  se,  "  -j 
doriacht  do  brathair  co  dorws  na  Teibi  dod  t'indsaigi,  -]  ata  'cod 
gairm  -]  'cod18  gremiachad  a  a3/mr  do  cAomrag  -|  do  chomland 
rit19."    Adchuakud  immorro  Eitiocles  sin,  -j20  roerig  co  fergach 

4365  feramail,  -j  nir-ba  miad  les21  an  seel  doriacht  da  indsaigid.    Et  250 
tangadar   andsi//    chnigi    a   cwraid    co»dai/id    -|   a   gnathamais 
comaidec/iia,  -j  is  ed  doraidsed  friss22 :  "  An,  a  airdrig,"  ar  siad, 
"  ad  rigshuidhi23,  -j  bi  co  fosaidh24  foHbailid,  -7  dingebamaid-ne  do 
bidbaid  dit,  -j  rofseth  ante25  fogres  comland  fort."   Acms  doriacht  264 

437oan<r/siu  Creon  cumachtach  da  indsaigid,  -j  ni26  do  thoirmisc  an 

1  Eg.  cur-cinniusa  comairli  ar  eis  mo  carud  7  durson  nir-u  and  doronus 
comrac  ri  mo  2  Eg.  rotaesadh  na  atorchaii  etraind  3  Eg.  toirmisc-sium 
am  a  denam  4  Eg.  maithibk  Qrec  5  Eg.  'ca  fostudh  6  Eg.  uair  uai 

7  E.  buadreag  8  Eg.  tuiriáh  9  Eg.  acotogairm  7  acatindenus 

10  Eg.  a  echa  u  E.  minreighi  12  Eg.  Polinixeis  13  Eg.  rouai  14  Eg.  co 
honorach  15  Eg.  a  caradraidh  M  Eg.  roscing  cisel  cirdubh  do  teinudh 

17  Eg.  rouai-sium  18  Eg.  gutgairm  7  gut  19E.dorit  20  Eg.  o  'dcuala...7  on». 
21  Eg.  lais  22  Eg.  roraidsit  risin  airdrigh  ri  hEitiocles  23  Eg.  righsuighi 
21  Eg.  7  bidb  co  tossaid        25  Eg.  rofeth  linn  inti         2C  Eg.  ni  he  tairmesc 

280 


THE  THEBAID 

on  a  plan  after  (the  death  of)  my  friends ;  and  it  is  sad  that  I 
and  my  brother  did  not  then  form  a  plan  the  first  day  the  Greeks 
came  to  Thebes  before  the  things  befell  that  have  happened 
between  us.  And  now,"  said  he,  "  I  shall  do  battle  with  Eteocles, 
and  do  not  hinder  us  from  doing  it.  And  health  to  thee,  O  high- 
king,  after  I  am  gone,  and  to  all  the  nobles  of  the  Greeks."  Now 
the  heroes  were  equally  sad  at  that  farewell  of  Polynices,  and 
Adrastus  was  comforting  and  detaining  him  ;  but  he  did  not  stay 
with  Adrastus,  fur  the  goddess  was  disquieting  him,  to  wit, 
Megaera.  And  this  is  what  she  said  to  him :  "Do  not  delay,  O  lad," 
said  she,  "seeing  thy  brother  Eteocles  is  calling  for  thee,  and  is 
hastening  for  battle  and  conflict  with  thee."  Then,  indeed, 
Polynices  arose  actively  and  in  haste,  and  urged  his  horse  over 
the  fine  smooth  plains,  till  he  came  to  the  city  of  Thebes. 

As  to  Polynices  thus  far. 

As  regards  Eteocles,  king  of  Thebes,  he  was  thus  engaged  in 
offering  honourable  sacrifices  to  Jove,  son  of  Saturn,  for  a  Theban 
victory ;  and  he  was  tracing  back  Jove's  relationship  with  the 
Thebans.  And  when  Eteocles  was  thus  engaged  in  offering  the 
sacrifices,  a  jet  black  spark  sprang  from  the  fire  of  the  sacrifice, 
and  burnt  the  king's  helmet  and  his  hair.  And  when  he  was 
so,  a  messenger  came  urgently  and  in  haste  to  him,  to  wit, 
Aepytus.  And  this  is  what  he  said  to  Eteocles :  "  Quickly  stop 
the  sacrifices,"  said  he,  "  seeing  thy  brother  hath  arrived  at  the 
gate  of  Thebes  in  quest  of  thee ;  and  he  is  calling  thee  and 
challenging  thee  alone  with  a  view  to  battle  and  conflict  with 
thee."  Now  Eteocles  heard  that,  and  he  arose  angrily  manfully, 
and  the  tale  that  had  come  to  him  he  deemed  no  honour.  And 
there  approached  him  his  battle-heroes  and  his  usual  soldiers 
accompanying,  and  this  is  what  they  said  to  him  :  "  Stay,  0  high- 
king,"  said  they,  "  in  thy  royal  seat,  and  be  composed  and  joyous, 
and  we  shall  ward  off  thine  enemies  from  thee,  and  he  that  urged 
a  combat  on  thee  will  fall."  And  then  came  powerful  Creon  to 
him,  and  it  was  not  to  check  the  fray  he  essayed;  but  he  began  to 
281 


E.  49b  30  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  243b  35 

tachair  vothriaW,  acht  rogab  for  athisib  bhri&ihar  do  thabairt  ai 


Theb. 

XI 


Eitiocles  aga  tenwadh1  -j  aga  threnghresacht  dochum  an  comlaiim. 

Acu.s  is  ed  doraid  ris :  "  Ní  bi2  sid  na  suba  isi?m  atharda-sa,"  ar 

se,  "  gein  bei-si3  a  rigi  forra,  -j  is  lor  lat  ar  rm'c-ne4  -j  ar  mbraithri 
4375  do  thuitim  a  cathaib  -j  a  n-irgalaib  dar  do  chend5,  -|  tú  kin6  co 

timteicheach  ar  imgabail  do  bratha?*,  ~\  seisiíiííi7  agad  gremm- 

badh-sa  a  ndorus  na  cathrac/i8." 

Rafhregair  Eitiocle.s  co  fichda  fevgach  do  Creón,  -j  is  ed  doraid  297 

fris:  "  Ni  hi  tra  cutna  do  munntiri*  dobeiV  ort-su  si??  da  rada, 
4380  acht  dob  ail  let  fei?t10  beith  isin  rigi-si,  da  fsethaiwd-si11  isin 

comrag.    Et,  a  fhiru,"  ar  se,  "  trelmaigi  m'  armu  dam  uaib  co 

fherai/id  comlann  -j  an  curad  croda12  ata  com-gresacht  .i.Polinices, 

I  damad  coscrach  mé  on  chomlann  [dotairisin/t13  Eg.]  ar  Creon 
a  fhuigell  ainindeach  egoir."    Ag«s  in  am14  rabai  Eitiocles  ar  na 

4385  himraitib  sin,  is  ancZ  doriacAi  a  mhatkaii  .i.  Iochasta,  co  hanband 
acai??tech  da  indsaigíVí,  -j  a  lama  langela  ar  lethad,  -j  a  hru'mde 
taitnewtach15  tarrnocht16,  -j  intan  rosiacht17  chuigi  amlaid  sin,  is 
and  dobái  in  gilla  a[c]  gabail  a  ar/?i  [-]]  a  chathemitd  comraig 
-j  comlaind  ui?ne,  -\  a  each  siblach18  soérmach  ar  sibal  i/?a  snan 

4390  a  lai»i  a  aracl  i«a  fhiadnaisi.    Is  ed  immorro  doraid  a  mhatkair 

ris  :  "  Uch,  a  mhic,"  ar  si,  "  ca  dasacht  rod-gresand  do  cho???.rag19  329 
red  hhraihair  ?    -j  cá  leth  rach«s  anti  bus  coscrach  uaib  isin 
coinlcwicZ  arm  ar  mar'bad20  aroili  ?  (p.  50)  Et  is  ma  chin  da  bar  332 
n-athcwr  aniu  beith  a  n-i??gnais  a  shúl  ré  síu  beith21  ag  fegad  334 

4395  bar  cowraig  -\  bar  comlaind,  a  mltacu.    Et  bennacht  ort,"  ar  si, 
"  urderg22  do   lai??i  eisnmt-sa23  ar  tus  ~\  imir  bas  oram  ré  siu 
adcear24  tseb  do  bhraihar  ruisti  rotholl  uaid,  ina  do  tseb-so 
[uadha-sum  Eg.]  arna  tregdad  dosan  dosam25."    Ba  comrath26  re  354 
carraig  amh  disi  sin,  -j  ba  robad  do  breith  do  troich ;  uair  ge 

4400  raeist  a  mac  ria,  ni  rus-fsem  ni  dar-labair  ris27.    Is  andsin  tai;ng 

1  Eg.  ten/mdh  2  Eg.  bia  3  Eg.  be-siu7«  4  Eg.  forro  ar  sé  ar  mic-ni 
6  Eg.  a  catbugud  ar  do  chind  6  Eg.  fen  beth  7  Eg.  7  eisium  8  Eg.  do 
chatbracb  9  Eg.  do  mic  10  E.  raga...Eg.  radb  acht  rob  ail  letsa  fein 

II  Eg.  dotaetbsund-sea  12  E.  chuir  croda  Eg.  crodai  13  E.  tairsi  no 
14  Eg.  Et  ant  am  15  Eg.  taithnemach  16  Eg.  tamochta  17  Eg.  rosiacht  si 
18  Eg.  erredh...siublach  19  Eg.  ar  sibal  om..,. chomlond  20  Eg.  ar  marbad 
21  Eg.  a  fingnus  a  shul  re  siu  robeth  22  Eg.  urrderg  23  Eg.  asam-sa 
24  Eg.  atcethair  25  Eg.  arna  tredgad:  dosan  dosam  Eg.  om.  26  Eg.  comrad 
27  Eg.  nir-fsem  ni  da  «-odbert  ris 


THE  THEBAID 

hurl  wordy  insults  at  Eteocles,  pressing  and  strongly  inciting  him 
unto  the  combat.  And  this  is  what  he  said  to  him  :  "  There  will 
be  no  peace  or  joy  in  this  fatherland,"  said  he,  "  as  long  as  thou 
art  in  kingship  over  them,  and  thou  art  well  content  that  our 
sons  and  brothers  should  fall  in  battles  and  contests  for  thy  sake, 
whilst  thou  thyself  art  in  coward  flight  avoiding  thy  brother, 
though  he  is  challenging  thee  at  the  gate  of  the  city." 

Eteocles  answered  Creon  furiously  and  angrily,  and  this  is  what 
he  said  to  him  :  "Well,  it  is  not  sorrow  for  thy  people  that  makes 
thee  say  that,  but  thou  thyself  wouldest  fain  be  in  this  kingship, 
if  I  should  fall  in  the  contest.  And,  O  men,"  said  he,  "  my  arms 
must  be  prepared  for  me  by  you,  that  we  may  wage  battle,  I  and 
the  warlike  hero  that  is  challenging  me,  to  wit,  Polynices ;  and 
if  I  should  be  victorious  in  that  contest,  then  I  would  disprove 
against  Creon  his  angry  and  unjust  judgment."  And  while 
Eteocles  was  engaged  in  these  reflections,  then  came  to  him  his 
mother,  to  wit,  Jocasta,  feebly  and  in  tears,  with  her  full-white 
hands  outspread,  and  her  shining  bosom  bare ;  and  when  she 
reached  him  thus,  the  lad  was  then  donning  his  arms  and  his 
battle-gear  of  struggle  and  contest,  and  his  swift  well-coursing 
horse  walking  bridled  in  the  hand  of  his  charioteer  beside  him. 
Now  this  is  what  his  mother  said  to  him :  "Alas,  my  son,"  said 
she,  "  what  madness  urges  thee  to  a  struggle  with  thy  brother  ? 
And  whither  will  go  the  one  of  you  that  is  victor  in  the  feat  of 
arms  after  killing  the  other  ?  And  blessed  is  your  father  to-day 
to  be  deprived  of  his  eyes  ere  he  should  be  witnessing  your 
struggle  and  your  combat,  O  my  sons.  And  blessing  on  thee," 
said  she,  "  redden  thy  hand  first  on  me,  and  inflict  death  on  me, 
before  I  see  thy  brother's  side  rent  and  perforated  by  thee  or 
thy  side  pierced  by  him." 

For  her  that  was  indeed  conversing  with  a  rock,  and  it  was 
giving  warning  to  a  doomed  man  ;  for  though  her  son  listened  to 
her,  he  accepted  nothing  of  what  she  said  to  him.  Then  came  the 
283 


E.  50a  7  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  244"1  26 

in  óg  fhial  ilcArothach  .i.  Ai»tigoi/?e,  siur  na  mac  sin,  can  fhis   ^ 
can  airiubad1  do  neoch  isin  cathraig,  no  co  riacht  ar  mullach  an  355 
muir,  -]  a  haiti2  cianaesta  comairleach  inane/;  ria  i.  Fo?'fass3.    Et 
imar  thainig  si  andsi//,  adchondairc  uaithi  a  brathair  .i.  Polinices 

4405  mor,  mac  Eidip,  ag  dibragad  tiged  na  Teibi,  -j  ag  crathad  na 
sleg4  a[c]  sirgrendachadh  a  brathar.    Et  [o]  adcondairc-si  si/),  360 
iachtais  -j  eigis  co  hard,  -]  raidis  ris  :  "  Ar  na  dee  rit,  a  gilla,"  ar 
si5,  "toirind  t'  fheirg,  -j  orchis  dod  bunadchi/?el  fein.    Et  ni  bá  369 
maith  th'  [fh]ir  chat[h]a6  idt'r,"  ar  si,  "  tar  in  ngrendugwd7  doberi 

4410  ar  do  brathair8,  -j  is9  eisium  robai  gus  aniu  ar  anfir,  uair 
dofheimid10  comvamd  cWchi  na  feraind  duidsi,  -j  dothoirmisc11  do 
bhrathair,"  ar  si,  "ar  aslach  a  mathar  fair  can  gliaid  -]  can 
debaid  do  de//am  rit-so.  Et  bennacht  fortsa,  dena-sa  oram-sa 
ar  in  cairdes  fail  adraind  ar  chena,"    Et  o  raraid  in  mgen  na 

4415  briathra  bawda  banamla  sin  re  brathair,  tanig  taidhlech  ar 
menmain  an  miled12  andsi»,  -j  toirrnis  a  arwia,  -j  fillis  aradna  na 
hec//raidi  ar  culu,  -]  tastais  seal  ag  fegad  na  ingine.  Et  c»///a13 
rabad«?--s //?//.  am\aid  sin,  ragreis  an  badb  demnach  dasr/c/ííach 
Eitiocle.s'  a  coinde  -7  a  comdail  a  brathar  dar  dorws  na  Teibi,  co 

442oracH?/<scaigid14  comlada  da  corranaib,  -j  co  rathairrngid  urrsanda 
na  cat//rach  asa  coi?/iegwr  re  trodgail  na  trenmiled  ag  tindenus 
arse»?  ré  a  tigerna  dochum  YoMniceis.  O15  rasiacht  Eitiocles  ar  lar 
na  faidchi16  fondglaissi  na  Teibe,  raraid17:  "  A  atharda  na  rig*"  ar 
se,  ".i.  a  Theib  thondglas  togaidi,  is  ag  anti  beres  coscar  [as  so 

4425  Eg.]  aniu18  as  cubaid  do  beith-siu."  390 

O  'dchualaid  immorro  Folinices  sin,  ni  ar  time  na  ar  teithed19 

dochuaid  do,  acht  ar  trenindsaigid  a  bhrathar,  -j  ar  tomaithe/n 

n-adbal  do  dewara  'na  agaid20,  -j  is  ed  doraid  :  "A  Eitioclew,"  ar 

se,  "  an  cumaifl  let  can  comall  caradraid  -\  can  c/io?/irai?id  cn'chi 

4430  da  damthai/121  damsa  ?  Et  ni  fir  catha22  agad  am  agaid-sea  idir, 
1  bá  cora  comland  do  chur  rimsa  ni  bad  thaisci23  ina  torchair  do 
rigaib  -j  do  rodai//ib  adraind  cosaniu24."    Ba  hadbul  tra  misgais 

1  Eg.  can  fhis  om. ... airiugad  -  Eg.  hoidi  3  Eg.  Porbfas  4  Eg.  asleighi 
5  E.  se  6  Eg.  hir  catha  7  Eg.  ar  in  g.  sin  8  Eg.  doberidh  ar  do  braithir 
9  Eg.  uair  is  10  Eg.  gus  aniugh  ar  anbhr  uair  rofeimidh  u  Eg.  7  rotairis 
12  Eg.  don  milid  13  Eg.  Et  ant  am  14  Eg.  gur-cumaiscit  15  Eg.  agító  o 
16  Eg.  faichthe  1T  Eg.  Et  is  ed  roraidh  18  Eg  aniugh  19  Eg.  teiched 
20  Eg.  ana  aigid  2l  Eg.  do  damail  22  Eg.  ni  bhiadh  fir  catha 

23  Eg.  comlond  ni  ua  tasca  24  Eg.  aniugh 

284 


THE  THEBAID 

modest  virgin  of  many  charms,  to  wit,  Antigone,  sister  of  those 
boys,  unknown  and  unperceived  by  anyone  in  the  city,  till  she 
arrived  at  the  top  of  the  wall ;  and  along  with  her  was  her  aged 
tutor  and  counsellor,  to  wit,  Phorbas.  And  as  she  came  there,  she 
saw  in  the  distance  her  brother,  to  wit,  great  Polynices,  son  of 
Oedipus,  shooting  at  the  houses  of  Thebes,  and  shaking  the 
spears  as  he  ever  challenged  his  brother.  And  when  she  saw 
that,  she  screamed,  and  cried  aloud,  and  said  to  him :  "I  adjure 
thee  by  the  gods,  lad,"  said  she,  "  abate  thy  rage,  and  have  pity 
on  thine  own  original  kin.  Not  good  at  all  were  thy  trial  of 
battle,"  said  she,  "in  spite  of  the  challenge  which  thou  givest  thy 
brother,  seeing  it  is  he  that  has  been  till  to-day  bent  on  injustice, 
for  he  refused  to  share  territory  or  land  with  thee.  And  thy 
brother,"  said  she,  "rejected  his  mother's  entreaty  to  him,  not  to 
engage  in  fight  or  contest  with  thee.  And,  a  blessing  on  thee, 
thou  wilt  do  it  for  me  for  the  sake  of  the  relationship  that  exists 
among  us  all." 

And  when  the  maiden  had  said  those  female  womanly  words 
to  her  brother,  a  splendour  came  over  the  mind  of  the  soldier 
there,  and  he  lowered  his  weapons,  and  drew  the  reins  of  the 
horses,  and  he  remained  silent  for  a  space,  looking  at  the 
maiden.  And  no  sooner  were  they  thus  than  the  devilish  mad 
goddess  of  war  urged  Eteocles  to  meet  and  confront  his  brother 
benma  the  gate  of  Thebes,  so  that  the  doors  were  shaken  by  their 
blades,  and  the  lintels  of  the  city  wrenched  from  their  proper 
position  owing  to  the  martial  valour  of  the  champions  as  they 
hastened  along  with  their  lords  unto  Polynices.  When  Eteocles 
arrived  at  the  middle  of  the  green-surfaced  plain  of  Thebes,  he 
said  :  "  O  fatherland  of  the  kings,"  said  he,  "  to  wit,  thou  green- 
surfaced  chosen  Thebes,  to  the  man  who  carries  off  victory  here- 
from to-day,  it  is  proper  for  thee  to  belong." 

But  when  Polynices  heard  that,  it  was  not  to  fear  or  flight  he 
was  moved,  but  to  a  strong  attack  on  his  brother,  and  to  make 
a  huge  menace  against  him,  and  this  is  what  he  said  :  "  Eteocles," 
said  he,  "dost  thou  remember  that  no  fulfilment  of  friendship  or 
sharing  of  territory  was  granted  me  ?  And  it  is  no  trial  by 
combat  at  all  with  thee  against  me;  and  it  had  been  more  just 
to  wage  a  combat  with  me  before  all  those  kings  and  great 
persons  fell  between  us  up  till  to-day."  Now  vast  was  the  hatred 
285 


E.  50a  38  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  244b  28 

-j  formad  in  f'hir  isin  .i.  Eitiocleis  ag  Folinices1  aga  fhaigsi?i  ar  x*  I 
a  rigdacht  concuingeadh  dochum  an  chowraig2,  uair  is  amlaid 

4435  rabái  -j  buidhne  diairmigthi  degsluaig  mara?»  ris,  -j  cathbarr 
rigda  ruithnigthech3  'ma  chend,  -j  dillaitt  dathchain  deigdenmach 
co  n-edaigib  csema  corcarglana  ar[a]  eochaib  [aibjind  allmurdaib 
fa4  chrui/idsciath  taidlech5  taitneniach  fair.  Et  ger-ba  hadbal6  re 
Poiimces  sin,  ba  rigda  a  arm  i'ein  -\  a  errid7.    Uair  is  amlaid 

4440  robai  -j  edach  rigda  roalaind  ui??ie  ar  na  cuma  do  mnaib  mi/iglana 
Meiginne  do  ré  taidecht*  don  turws  si»,  -j  air?»  suaic/ti/ita 
soineamla  leiss  ar  na  shlibadh  co  slemangér  do  gaibnib  Greg,  -| 
each  luthmar  lanalaind  fai.  Et  o  rainrfsaigsei  (col.  /3)  na  hair- 
sida9  sin  ar  aroili,  roeirgedco-  amaidi  duaibsechdemnacha10  fora 

4445  n-armaib  -]  fora  n-echaib  .i.  Tisipoine  ag  tindenus  Eitiocleis11 
-j  Megera  ag  trengresacht12  Foiliniceis.  404 

Rachrith13  an  bé  Neid  a  heiteda14  crithrecha  comlasta  a[ca] 
comgresacht15,  comdais  lasracha  lanmora  taidleach  na  n-arm  aga 
n-urnoc/<£ad    agna   cwadaib    dochum   araili   isi?m    uair   sin,    -j 

4450  roc/iWthnaig  an  talam  trenadbal  am  a/  rothuitid16  asa  hait  -j  asa 
hinad  ré  taicim"  na  trenfer  sin  dochum  araili. 

Raeirgedar  anc?si?i  da  fegad  \ucht  na  cathrach  ar  inadaib18 
aibne  oirechtais,  -j  ar  mwraib  ardmoraib19  an  baili. 

Rabada?-  andsi/i  na  fiadnaisi  dae[s]cursluagh  dubach  digair  na 

4455  Tiabanda20,  -\  a  seanoraig  snimacha  ag  sirthoirrsi21,  -\  maithreacha  419 
tsebnoc/iia  ag  trenguba,  -j  naidiri  go  ta[i]  a[g]  geran22  do  gleó  na 
deisi  sin. 

Agus  tangada?*  andsin  a  hifir/<  anmann  i[n]  neoch  domarbad 
do  Thiabandaib  -j  do  Ghregaib  ar  cath23  na  Teibi,  co  ralinsad 

4460  an  mag  morreid  a  rabadar24  na  milid  sin,  -j  co  rabadar  ag  faidib 
1  ag  fedgairi  -j  ag  foluamaiw  co  hadfhuathmar  da  each25  leith 
umpu26. 

1  Eg.  .i.  Pol-  re  hEtio-  '-  Eg.  nghacht  conch/g  dochum  comlaind 

3  Eg.  ruithinnta  4  Eg.  aibhind  allbardhai  fai  5  E.  taiglecb  Eg.  tóighlech 
6  Eg.  ger-u  aduol  7  Eg.  aiim  7  a  erriudh  fein  8  Eg.  re  techt  9  E.  hairsiga 
Eg.  hairsidh  roinnsaigsit  l0  Eg.  arrmiaidedha  duaibsecha         n  E.  Eitiolc 

12  Eg.  tindenus  13  Eg.  roc /1  roth  M  Eg.  a  haithinnedha  15  Eg.  comlastai 
da  coimgressacht  1C  Eg.  amal  notisad  17  Eg.  toichern  18  Eg.  ar  a  n-aitibh 
19  -Eg.  ardmora  20  Eg.  daesgursluagh  diairmidhthi  na  T.  co  dubach 

21  Eg.  ac  fortoirsi  7  mna  M  E.  naigin  Eg.  noidhein  co  tai  ag  geran  23  Eg.  an- 
iiuinna...cathugud         24  Eg.  ara  rabadar         25  E.  cath         26  Eg.  uimpi 

286 


THE  THEBAID 

and  envy  of  that  man,  to  wit,  Eteocles,  at  Polynices  as  he  saw 
him  kinging  it,  so  that  he  hailed  him  to  the  contest ;  for  thus 
was  he  with  innumerable  companies  of  a  goodly  host  along  with 
him,  and  a  royal  gleaming  helmet  on  his  head,  and  beautifully 
coloured  well-fashioned  saddles  with  fair  bright- purple  trappings 
•on  his  foreign  horses,  under  a  gleaming  splendid  round  shield 
upon  him.  And  though  that  was  huge  in  the  eyes  of  Polynices, 
his  own  arms  and  his  gear  were  royal.  For  thus  was  he  with 
royal  very  beautiful  garments  upon  him  fashioned  for  him  by 
the  delicate  bright  women  of  Mycenae  before  his  coming  on  that 
journey ;  and  his  were  remarkable  varied  arms  after  being 
polished  smooth  and  sharp  by  Greek  smiths ;  and  a  swift  very 
beautiful  horse  was  under  him.  And  when  those  veterans  had 
approached  one  another,  uprose  black  devilish  hags  settling 
upon  their  arms  and  horses,  to  wit,  Tisiphone  hurrying  on 
Eteocles,  and  Megaera  strongly  urging  Polynices. 

The  wife  of  Néid  shook  her  sparkling  blazing  garments  as  she 
urged  them,  so  that  the  shimmer  of  the  arms  being  unsheathed 
by  the  heroes  against  one  another  became  very  great  flames  at 
that  time,  and  the  strong  vast  earth  shook  as  if  it  were  so  fall 
from  its  place  and  position,  owing  to  the  approach  of  those 
champions  to  one  another. 

Then  arose  to  view  them  the  people  of  the  city  upon  pleasant 
places  of  concourse,  and  on  the  lofty  great  walls  of  the  town. 

There  in  their  presence  were  the  gloomy  vehement  common 
people  of  the  Thebans,  their  anxious  seniors  ever  sorrowing, 
naked-sided  mothers  loudly  wailing,  and  children  silently  com- 
plaining at  the  battle  of  those  twain. 

And  there  from  hell  came  the  souls  of  those  Thebans  and 
Greeks  who  had  been  slain  in  the  war  of  Thebes,  so  that  they 
filled  the  great  smooth  plain  in  which  those  soldiers  Avere ;  and 
they  were  engaged  in  cries,  whistling,  and  fluttering  awfully 
around  them  everywhere. 

287 


E.  50b  16  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  245«  24 

Adchualaid   immorro   ant  airdrig   Adrais[t]    can    toirmeasg   x^  5 
[o  Tiabandaib  Eg.]  ar  tauchur  na  deisi  si»,  -j   ragreis  a  each  425 

4465  aterro  co  hathlam  da  n-edarscarad1.    Et  raidis  And:  "  A  Ghregu'2 
1  a  Thiabanda,"  ar  se,  "toirmisgid  na  rira-sa  da  fi»gail3,  -j  a 
Eitioclm,"  ar  se,  "  cid  ad  eascara4,  an  agamsa ;  -],  a  Fholiniceis,  433 
masa  roshai?it5  rigi  fuil  agad6,  ag  siud  rigi  na  nGreg  duit  -\ 
toirmisc  do   chomrag."    Ní  mó   trá   dochualadar-san7   sin  na 

4470  ralabairthea  risi»  muir  duasanaig  turcarthaig8  can  anad  da 
glór  -]  da  gredan9  timcheall10  an  betha.  Agus  0  rafheimid  Adraist 
dedail  na  deisi  si»,  -j  adchonrfairc  a  n-eocha  tenda  ag  trenshibal11, 
-j  a  slega  suainmeacha  'ca  seoladh  as  a  meraib  seta  sithgeala, 
roi/npó12  uaithib  dochum  a  longpuiVi,  -]  doleig  coimdisli  iter  na  441 

4475  ciwadaib  da  eís.    Rabái  tra  an  toici  aga  toirmesc  thoitwii  isi/ai  447 
uair  bice  sin,  uair  dogresedar13  a  n-eocha  bá  dó  dochum  aroili14. 
Ni  thug  nech  dib  goin  na  aladh  for  a  cheili  re  hathlaime  a 
n-i/iggabala15  [-]  re  febhus  in  imditin  tucsat  na  trenmilid  for 
aroile  Eg.],  -\  roieigsed  an  tresf eacAi16  a  srein  co  lag17  asa  lamaib, 

4480  -j  rogreiseadar  co  hainmin  na  heocha  i  sboraib  aithgera  iarnaidi18. 
Adchondcadur19  treinfhir  thenrfa  na  Tiabanda  -\  gaisgedaig 
gloi??dmera20  na  nG?-eg.  Racoimergedar  do  chosnum21  a  triath  -j 
a  tigerna  isiwn  eigin22  irgaili  a  rabadar.  Cid  tra  acht  robái  a 
tuicthi  don  di[s]  sin  tuitim  re23  'roili  .i.  Eitiocles  -\  Polinices. 

4485      Tainig  bandei  int  shida24  .i.  Pax,  do  di/ignaib  roglawa  riched25  458 
docJium.  na  cath  cechtavda  sin,  cor-ba  subach  sidamewi  atorra  472 
fei??,   co    raleigsead   comrag   do    Eitiocles   -j    do    Fotinices   can 
chu-Mgnam   ré26   nechtar   dib.     Is    de    sin    rahadandait    ferga 
ficthecha27  firmora  isna  feraib  sin,  -j  roduraigestar28  na  crideda 

449oc/*oda   cosnamacha   dochum    araili.     Ba    huchbad    ain29    da   n- 478 
oirechtaib  beith  ag  fegad30  na  fingaili  sin.    Uair  ba  cosmaili 

1  Eg.  da  n-iterscarcírí/í  2  Eg.  Greca  3  Eg.  fingoil  4  Eg.  escaru 

5  Eg.  saint         6  Eg.  fuil  fort         7  Eg.  atcualadar-sum  8  Eg.  tuasanaigli 

turcurthaigh  9  E.  gregan  10  Eg.  timcild  ll  E.  degail...Eg.  trensiubal 
12  Eg.  ar  a  meraib. ..E.  7  roimpó  13  Eg.  toitme  na  deisi  sin  isin  uair  mbic 

sin  uair  rogreissastar     14  Eg.  dochum  a  cheli      15  Eg.  for  aroile. ..na  himdeghla 

18  E.antresfechtre^eatof      17  Eg.  a  sriana  co  lac      18  Eg.  o  sporaibb...E.iarnaigi 

19  Eg.  0  'dconncatar  20  Eg.  na  Teue  7  gasraid  gl.  2I  E.  dochum  Eg.  do 
cosiiiiw  22  Eg.  hecin  23  Eg.  o  rouái  a  tuf'gte...toithn  re  24  Eg.  bainndei... 
E.  inth  shida  25  Eg.  rightigi  26  Eg.  cungnum  le  "  Eg.  As  andsin 
roadhnuit  ferca  fiuchacha      28  Eg.  roduraighsit      29  Eg.  ai«      3U  Eg.  ag  fegai» 

288 


THE  THEBAID 

Now  the  high-king  Adrastus  heard  that  there  was  no  check 
by  Thebans  upon  the  fray  of  those  twain,  and  he  urged  his  horse 
swiftly  between  them  in  order  to  separate  them.  And  he  said 
there  :  "  0  Greeks,  and  O  Thebans,"  said  he,  "  check  these  men 
from  their  fratricide ;  and,  O  Eteocles,"  said  he,  "  though  thou 
art  an  enemy,  remain  with  me ;  and  O  Polynices,  if  it  be  lust 
for  a  kingdom  thou  hast,  here  is  the  kingship  of  the  Greeks  for 
thee,  provided  thou  do  but  check  thy  contest."  Now  no  more  did 
they  listen  to  that  than  had  it  been  spoken  to  the  pursuing  waif- 
strewn  sea  that  ceases  not  from  its  noise  and  clamour  round  the 
world.  And  when  Adrastus  was  unable  to  separate  those  twain, 
and  saw  their  swift  horses  strongly  pacing,  and  their  thonged 
spears  being  directed  from  their  long  very  white  fingers,  he 
turned  from  them  unto  his  camp,  and  left  a  fair  field  between 
the  heroes  behind  him.  Now  their  fate  was  preventing  them 
from  falling  in  that  short  hour,  for  they  urged  their  horses  twice 
at  one  another.  Neither  of  them  inflicted  wound  or  hurt  on 
the  other  owing  to  the  dexterity  of  their  defence  and  the  excel- 
lence of  the  guard  which  the  champions  maintained  against  one 
another ;  and  thrice  did  they  allow  their  reins  to  slacken  out  of 
their  hands,  and  they  roughly  urged  the  horses  with  sharp  iron 
spurs.  The  keen  champions  of  the  Thebans  and  the  daring 
heroes  of  the  Greeks  looked  on.  Together  they  arose  to  support 
their  princes  and  lords  in  the  stress  of  conflict  in  which  they 
were.  Albeit  it  was  the  fate  of  those  twain,  to  wit,  Eteocles  and 
Polynices,  to  fall  by  one  another. 

The  goddess  of  peace,  to  wit,  Pax,  came  from  the  very  bright 
heights  of  heaven  unto  those  battalions  of  both  sides,  so  that  they 
were  glad  and  peaceful  among  themselves ;  and  they  abandoned 
the  struggle  to  Eteocles  and  Polynices,  giving  no  assistance  to 
either  of  them.  Hence  furious  and  very  great  fits  of  rage  were 
kindled  in  those  men,  and  they  hardened  their  warlike  contentious 
hearts  towards  one  another.  It  was  a  wail  of  "  alas ! "  to  their 
assemblies  to  be  beholding  that  fratricide.  For  the  faces  of  the 
warriors  under  their  beautiful  shapely  helmets  were  alike.  The 
c  289  19 


E.  sob  44  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  245b  22 

gnuisi  na  ngaásgedach  fa  cathbarraib  ailli  ordaigi.    Ba  hiardaigi1   ^ 
senmathar  7   ba  haithni  eenathar  curaid  croda  cosna?xach  in 
comlaiwd  sin,  ger-ba  ai?iinc?each  ré  'roili  [isin  uair  sin  Eg.]. 

4495      Is  andsifl  tra  seolais  an  ri  ogal  anrata2  .i.  Eitiocles3,  an  sleig 
taidlig   dulfsebraig4    dochum   Foliniceis.   Fuirmis  FoHnices  an 
sciath  'na  hagaid5  cur-sceind6  di  amal  carraicc7.    No-  (p.  51) 
bertaigis8  ~Po\inices  an  sleig  suaimnig  sithfada  rabai  'na  \&im,  7  505 
raidis:  "A  dei  nime,"  ar  se,  "seolaid  in  urchur-sa  7  idberad-sa9 

4500  me  feiíi  daib  as  mo  rigi  ar  mbreith  choscair  an  churad  so." 
Agtis  0  raraid-siwm10  sin,  athchuiris  uad  an  sleig,  coma  hairgi11 
astoid  on  tsliasaid  co  'raill  do  eoch  'Eitiocleis  in  birbodba  si??12. 
O  ragonad  int  each,  roling  co  hathlam,  *j  robris  a  srian,  -j  rogab 
ar  luaimnig  7  ar  ianmeraigecht,  coma,  fordevg  forruad  da  fail  each 

4505  conair  concingead.    Failtigis  Folinices  don  gnim  sin,  7  gmsis 
co  hathlam  a  each  da  indsaig,  7  cu  racomraigidar13  srein  na  518 
heachraidi  7  lama  na  laechraidi  7  airm  na  n-airsed  a  n-semwad. 
Et  o  racomraigsed,  torbiris  each  dib  laim14  a  timcheall  araile,  co 
rathuitsed  da  n-echaib,  feib  tiastais  ré  haill15  no  re  hanbon/s16. 

45ioRaeirgedar  fo  chetoiv  a  n-aenfec/ii  co  hainmin  agarb  dochum 
araili,  -j  rochoTnraig  doib  a  n-ingnais  a  n-each.  Et  bá  hé  dlus 
a  comraig  cowa17  iacus  fairgsi18  na  fordelugud  iter  na  feraib19 
isi/m  uair  sin,  coma  comcheangailti  a  cathba[i]rr  7  a  claidmi20, 7 
coma  comascda  lama  na  lcec/»-aidi  ag  trenoirrleach  aroili,  amar 

4515  da  leowan  lomdmera21,  no  mar  da  thiger  trena22  thnuthacha,  no 
mew  da  natAraig  niata  nemneacha. 

Cid  tra  acht  rotholl  "3  rothrengon  each  aroili  dib23  andsm, 
coi?ta  croathir  chowitholl  cnes  chechtaiv  de ;  1  ger-b  imda24  na 
halaid   anctein   arna    hairsidaib25,  ni  riachtador  gona   aigbeili 

4520  eislindi  o  each  dib  ara  cheili26  risin  ré  sin.  Nir-bá  earn  t?-«27 
cairdess  na  deisi  derbrathar  sin,  uair  fa  santaigi  re  cechtar  dib 

1  Eg.  hiardraighe  2  Eg.  occal  anriata  s  E.  Eót  4  Eg.  tmnfaebrach 
5  Eg.  ana  aigid  6  Eg.  gur-sging  7  Eg.  oarraid  no  cruaidh  comna 

8  Eg.  bertnaigis  int  shlerj  9  Eg.  idhber-sa  10  E.  raraig-  u  Eg.  int  s\eg 
coma  hairghe  E.  astoig  12  Eg.  an  tsliasat  co  araili  d'ech  Et.  int  slegh  badhua 
sin       13  Eg.  for  luamain... indsaig  Eitiodm  co  rocomraicsitar       14  Eg.  lamha 

18  Eg.  ri  hall       l6  Eg.  ri  hanforus       17  Eg.  a  tachair  conach       18  Eg.  faircsin 

19  Eg.  fordeludh  eturru  30  Eg.  a  claidew  21  Eg.  leoman  mera 
22  Eg.  trenai  23  Eg.  each  a  cele  dib  21  Eg.  ger-uo  himdhai 
26  E.  hairsigaib                26  Eg.  for  aroili                -"  Eg.  cain  am 

290 


THE  THEBAII) 

cruel  contentious  heroes  of  that  combat  were  the  last  posterity 
of  the  same  mother,  and  the  acknowledged  sons  of  the  same 
father,  though  they  were  angry  with  one  another  at  that  time. 

Then  the  bold  warlike  king,  to  wit,  Eteocles,  directed  his 
shining  sharp-edged  spear  at  Polynices.  Polynices  planted  his 
shield  against  it,  so  that  it  rebounded  as  if  from  a  rock.  Polynices 
brandished  the  thonged  very  long  spear  that  was  in  his  hand, 
and  said :  "  Gods  of  heaven,"  said  he,  "  guide  this  cast,  and  I 
shall  sacrifice  myself  to  you  out  of  my  kingdom  after  gaining 
the  victory  over  this  hero."  And  when  he  had  said  that,  he  again 
hurled  from  him  the  spear,  so  that  that  war  spear  shaft  was  a 
beam  that  glittered  from  one  flank  to  another  of  Eteocles'  horse. 
When  the  horse  was  wounded  he  sprung  actively,  and  broke 
his  rein,  and  he  began  to  gallop  and  to  race  madly,  so  that 
every  way  he  went  was  red  and  crimson  with  his  blood.  Polynices 
rejoiced  at  that  deed,  and  quickly  urged  his  horse  towards  him, 
so  that  the  reins  of  the  horses,  the  hands  of  the  heroes,  and  the 
weapons  of  the  veterans  fought  together  in  one  place.  And 
when  they  fought  together,  each  of  them  threw  his  arm  around 
the  other,  so  that  they  fell  from  their  horses  as  they  might  have 
fallen  down  a  rock  or  because  of  insecurity.  They  arose  forth- 
with together,  going  roughly  and  harshly  towards  one  another, 
and  they  fought  together  without  their  horses.  And  such  was 
the  closeness  of  their  fight  that  there  appeared  no  mark  or 
distinction  between  the  men  at  that  time,  and  their  helmets 
and  swords  were  locked  together,  the  hands  of  the  heroes  mingled 
as  they  strongly  slaughtered  one  another,  like  two  raging  lions, 
or  two  strong  emulous  tigers,  or  two  heroic  venomous  snakes. 

Nay,  each  of  them  pierced  and  strongly  wounded  the  other 
there,  so  that  the  skin  of  each  of  them  was  a  perforated  sieve ; 
and  though  the  wounds  there  upon  the  veterans  were  many,  no 
terrible  dangerous  wounds  wrere  exchanged  from  one  of  them  to 
the  other  during  that  time.  Now  not  kind  was  the  relationship 
of  those  two  brothers,  for  it  was  a  lust  with  each  of  them  to 
291  19-2 


E.  5ia  25  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  246*  21 

togail  -J  tin/isadaitt1  tola  a  corp  a  cheili  ina  imdegail  -j  didi/12   x*j  ' 
a  taeib  bodeisiw. 

Agws  is  andsin   tra  fwmis  1   fofdingis   J?o\inices  mór  mac 

4525  Eidip  in  claidim  claislethan3  curata  rabai  'na  laim  a  cnes  a 
brathar  co  rug  urraind  n-eslin/i  trena  chliab  [-j  trena  cridhi 
Eg.].  O  raairig4  immorro  Eitiocles  a  arrach  desi/t5,  fuirmis  a 
seiath  ara  scath,  •]  tn'allais  teitheadh  asi/*6  tres,  -j  a  brathatV 
d'  imgabail.    Leanais  immorro  Polinices  é,  -j  trenbuailis  a  sgiath 

4530  air7.    Et  raidis8:  "  Ca  leth  tmalltar  an  teithed9  idir  ? "  ar  se.  548 
"  Et  is  nair  duit,  a  gilla,  rigi  -j   flaithms10  gus  aniu  agat,  -j 
loingsech   lansiblach11  mar  misi  dod    marbad."     0   Vlchualaid 
Eitiocleis  sin,  roimpo  co  cealgach12  cruadcn'deach,  -\  roleig  tend  554 
a  droma  re  tenntaib13  talmaw,  -j  roindill  a  arm14  air  anuas. 

4535  O  'dchondairc  immorro  na  Tiahanda  sin,  tucsad  gairi  duba  -j 
domenman  os  aird,  co  roibi  a  macalla15  a  fedaib  -j  a  foit/inb  na 
cn'ch  comfhog«s. 

Rothincíisnaig16  Polinices  áochum  a  brath ctr  fai  sin-,  -j  is  ed 
doraid  ris:  "Maith  tra  lium  t'  aiscin  mar  tai  adrasta,"  ar  se, 

454""  .i.  do  rose  ruibnech  roglas  ag  dorchachad17  ad  chi>id,  -j  do  gnuis  558 
glan  grwadalaind  a[c]  garbacl18  -j  a[c]  glasad  fort,  -j  airrdena19  ega 
ag  taidec/ii20  dod  t'  insaigid.    Et  a  firu,"  ar  se,  "  tabraid  fleisc 
na  rigi  dam,  co  faicea  Eitiocles  am  laim21  hi  re  siu  bhagaba22 
bass."   Et  is  cuma  doraid-si?/??i  sin  -j  rothoirind  ar  Eitiocles  do 

4545  buain  a  airm  -j  a  edaig  de  da  n-idbairt  dona  deib  amal  rogeall 
roime.  Et  i/narro23  dobai-sntm24  ana  sduaig  moir  mileata  os  cind 
(col.  /8)  Eitioclm  ag  tWall  a  fuidb  do  buain  de,  saithis25 
Eitiocles  an  claidim  aniss  a  n-uchtbruinde  Poliniceis,  conis- 
fagaib26    'na   chliab   ar   scaltad   a  chridi.    Et  fuair   fein   bass  567 

4550  fo  chetoir  a  ndiaicl  an  gnima  sin27.    Is  ed  roraid  immorro  Polinices 

1  Eg.  tinnsatain  2  Eg.  corpaibh  a  celt  ina  n-imdegail  7  an  imdidin 

3  Eg.  claslethan  4  Eg.  roairigh  E.  raairid  5  E.  A-AftVACtl  Eg.  a  aruac/i 
d'  faguail  de  sin  6  Eg.  in  sciath...teiched  isin  7  Eg.  fair  8  E.  raigis 
9  Eg.  teiched  10  Eg.  Úaithemn&s  u  Eg.  lansiublach  12  E.  co  chealgach 
13  Eg.  a  tend  a  dromai  re  tennta  14  Eg.  armha  15  Eg.  gairi  dom.  7 

dubac/mis. . .co  roiui  macalla  16  Eg.  rotin/idesnaig  17  Eg.  dorchudh 

18  Eg.  gruadhal-  ag  garbdubaci  19  E.-  airdeiia  with  ri  in  margin  20  Eg.  airdena 
hega  ac  tocht  21  Eg.  rigi  am  laim  co  faici  Et.  22  Eg.  agum  hi  re  siu  uogobai 
23  Eg.  7  am-  24  Eg.  rouai-sium  25  Eg.  saighis  26  Eg.  an  ichtar  a  bruin«e 
a  Pol.  gur-facai6        27  Eg.  cridhi  icus  fogebati  bas  uo  cetoir  iarson  gnim  sin 

292 


THE  THEBAII) 

attack  and  to  shed  blood  from  the  body  of  his  fellow  rather  than 
to  defend  and  to  protect  his  own  side. 

And  it  was  then  that  great  Polynices,  son  of  Oedipus,  laid  on, 
and  forced  the  broad  grooved  heroic  sword  that  was  in  his  hand 
into  the  body  of  his  brother,  so  that  he  brought  its  dangerous 
point  through  his  chest  and  through  his  heart.  When,  however, 
Eteocles  foresaw  his  death  therefrom,  he  placed  his  shield  to 
defend  him ;  and  he  proceeded  to  flee  out  of  the  fray,  and  to 
avoid  his  brother.  But  Polynices  followed  him,  and  strongly 
struck  down  his  shield  upon  him.  And  he  said :  "  Whither  is 
flight  attempted  at  all  ? "  said  he.  "  And  it  is  a  shame  for  you, 
O  lad,  to  have  a  kingdom  and  principality  up  till  to-day,  and  that 
a  far-travelled  exile  like  me  should  slay  you."  When  Eteocles 
heard  that  he  turned  him  about  deceitfully  and  hardheartedly, 
and  he  let  the  breadth  of  his  back  down  on  earth's  fastnesses, 
and  he  adjusted  his  arms  above  him. 

But  when  the  Thebans  saw  that,  they  uttered  loud  cries  of 
sorrow  and  dejection,  so  that  the  echo  of  them  lingered  in  the 
woods  and  forests  of  the  neighbouring  confines. 

Polynices  thereupon  hastened  unto  his  brother,  and  this  is 
what  he  said  to  him :  "  Well,  I  am  glad  to  see  thee  as  thou  art 
now,"  said  he,  "  to  wit,  thy  piercing  very  blue  eye  darkening  in 
thy  head,  thy  pure  fair-cheeked  countenance  roughening  and 
turning  grey  upon  thee,  and  signs  of  death  coming  towards  thee. 
And,  0  men,"  said  he,  "give  me  the  sceptre  of  the  kingdom, 
that  Eteocles  may  see  it  in  my  hand  before  he  die."  And 
no  sooner  had  he  said  that  than  he  bent  down  on  Eteocles 
to  strip  him  of  his  arms  and  vesture  in  order  to  offer  them 
to  the  gods,  as  he  had  promised  before.  And  as  he  stood  in 
a  great  warlike  crescent  above  Eteocles,  proceeding  to  strip 
him  of  his  spoils,  Eteocles  thrust  his  sword  up  into  Polynices' 
bosom,  and  left  it  in  his  breast  after  splitting  his  heart.  And  he 
himself  died  forthwith  after  that  deed.  But  this  is  what  Polynices 
293 


E.  5ib  4  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  246b  19 

ar  tabairt  na  gona  digla  sin  air1:  "A  mibraitAir2,"  ar  se,  "asT^e,b' 
fata  rochuimnigis  do  chealga  7  t'3  aininrZe,  -j   tu  re  bruimie  568 
bais,  no  co  torchar-sa  let4."    Et  o  raraid-sittm  sin,  torchair  'na 
cosair  era  a   cend   a   brathar,  1  fuaradar  arse?i  bass  -j   oiged 
4555  iochetoiv  isin  choimlepaid  sin. 

0  'dchualaid  immorro  an  seanoir  dall  .i.  Eidip,  athair  na 
deisi  sin,  bas  d'  [fhjagbail  do  chach  dib  ré  cheili,  ba  mór  a 
uchbad  -j  a  eigen5  lais  an  seel  sin  do  cloistecAi.  Et  roerig  co 
hoband6  -j  a  ingen  fá  laim7  .i.  A[n]tigoi?ie.  -\  raraid  ria:  "Maith,  594 

4560 a  ingen"  ar  se,  "  tabair8  eolas  dam  co  hairm  a  fuilei  mo  mic  ar 
na  marbad."  Is  andsi?i  taiwig  in  ingen  roiwie  tresin  n-ar9  cosan 
i/iad  a  rabadar10  an  dias  sin  .i.  Eitiocles  -j  Polinices.  Et  o 
rangadar  na  curpu,  rofobradar  nuallguba  n-adbail  do  denam,  -j 
is    ed    doraid     Eidip    andsi»:     "Is    cuwithach     mo    c/<n'di-si  605 

4565  adrasta11   os  bar  cimi,  a  macu,"  ar  se,  "ger-sa  miscais12  cos 
aniu  sib,  as  i?mimai?i  atrasda;  -j  scail,  a  ingen,  corpu  na  fer,"625 
ar  se,  "  co  loiger  atorro  ar  medon."    Et  is  amlaid  doraid-siwwi 
sin   -j    rosi?i    an  laim  ag  iarraid  airm13   na  mi\ed  da   marbad 
budein. 

4570      0  'dchonrfairc  immorro  a  i/igen14  sin,  roedla  uaid15  na  harma,  629 
1  [rofholaig  air  iad,  -j  o  nach  fuair-sium  na  harmu  Eg.],  rogab 
clenmne  -j  dasacht  hé,  -]  rabai  a[g]  guba16  truim  toirrsig  os  cind 
na  fher. 

Imtusa  Iochasta  immorro  .i.   mathair  na  mac,  tai/zig  seig17 

4575  amach  fa  na  faidib  firtruagha  sin  -j  sedfine18  na  fer  sin  'na  \&im 
.i.  claidim  lethan  Laiiim,  athar  Eidip,  -j  tai/ág  leiss  ar  mur  na  640 
Teibi,  -|  roleig  co  comtArom  'man  claidi?Ji  sin  hi,  co  fhuair  bas 
'sa  c/tetoir  andsin  do  chumaid  a  mac.    Táinig19  immorro  a  hi^gen  643 
.i.  A[n]tigoine20,  -|  rabai  a  guba21 1  a  geran  co  mor  "  os  do  chind 22." 

4580  Ba  truag  trá  an  timtochell  toicten  doronad23  andsin  .i.  in  lucht 

1  Eg.  cliglai  sin  fair  2  Eg.  mignimaich  3  Eg.  chealgai  7  tu 
4  Eg.  torehor-sa  do  laim  5  Eg.  dfagbail  doibh  re  eele  ba  rnor  an  uchbad 
7  an  egaine  6  Eg.  co  hanuond  7  Eg.  fo  laim  8  Eg.  tauair 
9  Eg.  tresan  ar  10  Eg.  a  rrauatar  n  Eg.  astrasda  12  Eg.  ger-uo 
miscais. ..as  inmain  adrasta  om.  13  Eg.  a  laim  uadha  d'  iarraidh  arm 
14  Eg.  in  ingen  15  Eg.  uadha  16  Eg.  ag  guba  17  Eg.  sigheig 
18  Eg.  setfina  19  Eg.  uon  cloidem  sin  i  co  torchair  amldirf.  Tainic 
20  Eg.  Ismene  21  Eg.  a  gubu  22  Eg.  os  cind  Iocasta  23  Eg.  Ba  truag 
amh  in  timchell  7  intimtoichell  doronudh 

294 


THE  THEBAID 

sair],  after  that  vengeful  wound  was  inflicted  on  him  :  "False 
brother,"  said  he,  "long  hast  thou  remembered  thy  wiles  and 
thine  anger — seeing  thou  art  in  the  bosom  of  death — till  I  have 
fallen  by  thee."  And  when  he  had  said  that,  he  fell,  a  litter  of 
gore,  against  his  brother ;  and  both  met  death  and  fate  in  that 
same  bed. 

Now  when  the  blind  old  man,  to  wit,  Oedipus,  father  of  those 
twain,  heard  that  they  had  died  by  the  hand  of  each  other, 
great  was  his  wailing  and  distress  to  hear  that  tale.  And  he 
arose  suddenly,  taking  by  the  hand  his  daughter,  to  wit,  Antigone, 
and  he  said  to  her :  "  Well,  daughter,"  said  he,  "  lead  me  to  the 
place  where  my  sons  lie  slain."  Then  the  maiden  came  forward 
through  the  slaughter  to  the  place  where  those  two  lay,  to  wit, 
Eteocles  and  Polynices.  And  when  they  reached  the  bodies,  they 
began  to  make  an  exceeding  great  cry  of  sorrow,  and  this  is 
what  Oedipus  then  said :  "  Sorrowful  is  my  heart  over  you  now, 
my  sons,"  said  he ;  "  though  ye  were  hated  till  to-day,  ye  are 
beloved  now.  And  separate,  O  daughter,  the  bodies  of  the  men," 
said  he,  "  till  I  be  laid  in  the  midst  between  them."  And  even 
as  he  said  that,  he  stretched  forth  his  hand,  searching  for  the 
arms  of  the  soldiers  in  order  to  kill  himself. 

But  when  his  daughter  saw  that,  she  stole  the  arms  from 
him,  and  hid  them  from  him ;  and  since  he  did  not  get  the 
arms,  impatience  and  madness  seized  him,  and  he  continued  in 
heavy  and  sad  weeping  over  the  men. 

Now  as  to  Jocasta,  to  wit,  the  mother  of  the  boys,  she  came 
forth  intho  midat  uf  those  very  sad  cries,  with  the  family  heir- 
loom of  those  men  in  her  hand,  to  wit,  the  broadsword  of  Laius, 
father  of  Oedipus;  and  she  came  therewith  upon  the  wall  of 
Thebes,  and  she  fell  fair  upon  that  sword,  and  forthwith  died 
there  of  grief  for  her  sons.  Moreover  her  daughter,  to  wit, 
Antigone,  came  and  continued  wailing  and  complaining  greatly 
"  over  thy  head  (Jocasta)."  Sad  indeed  was  the  turn  of  fortune 
which  took  place  there,  to  wit,  the  people  that  had  fought 
295 


E.  51b  33  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  247*  16 

rochathaig  7  rochuibleHgaig1  'man  rigi  sin,  nach  iad  dochaith2  a   x^  ' 
maithiiis  na  a  somaiwe  acht  a  n-escaraid;   uair  rorigsad3  na 
tuatha  Tiabanda  sin  Créón  curata  do  shil  cosnamach  Caithim 
[mic  Aigenoir  Eg.]  andsin  ar  marbad  Eitiocleis.    Et  ar  bithi?*  a 

4585  mac  do  thoirbert  fei/i  tar4  cend  choscfwr  do  Thmbandaib,  tucsad-  652 
sam   rigi  don  fhir  si»,  -j   is   é  cetsm&cht  rigi  doordaigh-siit?» 
andsi??  .i.  can  duine  do  Gregaib  do  loscad  na  d'  adlucadh  i  tir  na 
Teibi  acht  a  leigin  fá  eathaidib  áeoir  7   fa  chuanartaib  con 
[allaid   Eg.].    Et  raerig  andsin  Creón  a  n-agaid5   Eidip  mic 

4S9ohdiUuis,  7  is  ed  doraid  ris:  "  Na  tairr6  isin  Teib,  7  na  benad  669 
do  chol  na  do  chorbad7  ri?i,d,  acht  dentar  aitt8  7  adba  duit  a 
fedaib9  7  a  fhasach10  na  Teibi,  uair  dothuitsed  do  mic  tred 
migni?»aib  féin." 

Sochtais  bar  Eidiph11  o  'dchualaid  sin,  -j  rolinad  o  feirg  7  o 

4595  londws  adbal  é,  -j  is  ed  roraidh  co  loindeach12  lanfergach  :  "  Is 
truag  am  linde,"  ar  se,  "an  toicthi13  Thiabanda  [dorochtain  Eg.]  676 
ag  duiligthi14  mar  thussa  (p.  52)  do  chur  a  rigi  -j  a  flaithzw  tar 
eis  na  rig  rodileas  robái  remad15  indti."    Et  robai-siwm16  amlazd 
sin  ag  tainsiwra  7  ag  tarcaisne  ar  Créon  co  moradbal17. 

4600      Ralabair  immorro  Antigoi?ie  ré  Creón,  7  is  ed  asbert  ris  : 
"  Tigead  do  chraide  oraind,  a  Chreón18,"  ar  si,  "  7  na  tabair  dod 
t'  airi  bvi&thra  an  duine  doilig19  dicheillid-si,  -j  dober-sa  air,"  ar  710 
si,  "  fognara20  7  fomamugitd  deit,  7  ni  leigfigt/?e?'21  a  teamplaib 
csema  coisergtha  na  a  n-i?iadaib22  aibne  oireac/dais  ad  t'  [fh]iad- 

4605  naisi-siu  he." 

Cid  tra  acht  tai?iig  aignedh  Creoi?i  andsi?i  ar  briat/waib  na 
hingine,  7  raidis23  ria :  "  Leigfer24,  a  ingen,  deit-si  sin,"  ar  se,  "  7 
dentar  aidi25  7  adba  do  i  sleib  Citharon  a  comfhogiis  don  Teib,  752 

I  bid  andsiíi  é  can  cheim  isin  cathraig-si  d'ar  n-indsaigi-ne." 
4610  Et  o  raraid  Creon  na  br'mthra  sin,deisid26  ina  rigda27isinchat/i?'aig 

7  maithi  na  Tiabanda  maraeii28  ris. 

1  E.  rocbathaid   Eg.  rocoiz/fblengaigk  2  Eg.  rocaitbis        3  Eg.  rorigbsit 

4  Eg.  db'  idhbairt  dona  deibb  tar  5  E.  repeats  i  n-agaid  6  Eg.  tarr 

7  Eg.  forpa  8  Eg.  áiti  9  Eg.  a  fedbaibb  ult  10  Eg.  fasaidbibb 

II  E.  eiT)ip  Eg.  for  Eidhipb  »  Eg.  co  Ion-  13  Eg.  in  toictbe  »  Eg.  do 
duiligthi  15  Eg.  dar  eis  na  rig  roglan  rodiles  rouai  romut  16  Eg.  Et  0 
rouai-sium  17  Eg.  co  badbuol  l8  Eg.  a  Chreoin  19  E.  doilid 
20  E.  t'odnam  21  Eg.  duit-si  7  ni  licfidhtí/-  e  22  Eg.  na  a  n-inutaib 
E.  ana  a  n-inadaib  23  Eg.  ar  an  ingin  andsin  7  raidbis  24  Eg.  leicfidbtc/- 
25  Eg.  aiti            20  E.  deisig            27  Eg.  'na  rigbi             28  Eg.  araon 

296 


THE  THEBAID 

and  struggled  about  that  kingdom,  that  it  was  not  they  that 
enjoyed  its  goodness  or  its  benefits,  but  their  enemies ;  for  those 
Theban  tribes  there  crowned  heroic  Creon  of  the  victorious  seed 
of  Cadmus,  son  of  Agenor,  after  Eteocles  was  slain.  And  because 
his  son  had  given  himself  up  in  order  to  secure  victory  for  the 
Thebans,  they  gave  the  kingdom  to  that  man.  And  this  is  the 
first  royal  decree  that  he  ordained  there,  to  wit,  that  no  Greek 
person  be  burnt  or  buried  in  the  land  of  Thebes ;  but  that  they 
should  be  exposed  to  birds  of  the  air  or  packs  of  wolves.  And 
then  Creon  rose  against  Oedipus,  son  of  Laius.  And  this  is  what 
he  said  to  him  :  "  Do  not  thou  come  into  Thebes,  and  let  not 
thy  sin  or  thy  corruption  touch  us ;  but  let  a  place  and  a  dwell- 
ing be  made  for  thee  in  the  woods  and  the  wilderness  of  Thebes, 
since  thy  sons  have  fallen  through  thine  own  evil  deeds." 

Silence  lay  on  Oedipus  when  he  heard  that,  and  he  was  filled 
with  anger  and  exceeding  wrath,  and  this  is  what  he  said 
wrathfully  and  very  angrily :  "  Sad  indeed  are  we,"  said  he,  "  at 
the  fate  of  the  Thebans,  that  it  should  come  to  a  creature  like 
thee  to  be  set  in  a  kingdom  and  principality  after  the  very 
proper  kings  that  were  therein  before  thee."  And  he  continued 
thus  censuring  and  contemning  Creon  very  vehemently. 

Antigone  however  spoke  to  Creon,  and  this  is  what  she  said 
to  him  :  "  Let  thy  heart  go  out  to  us,  O  Creon,"  said  she,  "  and 
give  no  heed  to  the  words  of  this  difficult  and  sense-bereft 
person.  And  I  shall  vouch  for  him,"  said  she,  "  to  serve  and  to 
submit  to  thee,  and  he  shall  not  be  allowed  to  enter  fair  con- 
secrated temples  or  into  pleasant  places  of  assembly  in  thy 
presence." 

Now  Creon's  spirit  was  then  moved  at  the  maiden's  words, 
and  he  said  to  her :  "  That  shall  be  allowed  thee,  0  maiden," 
said  he,  "  only  let  a  house  and  a  dwelling  be  made  for  him  in 
mount  Cithaeron,  near  Thebes ;  and  let  him  remain  there,  but 
not  a  step  into  this  city  towards  us."  And  when  Creon  had 
said  those  words,  he  sat  down  in  his  palace  in  the  city,  and  the 
Theban  nobles  along  with  him. 

297 


E.  52a  15  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  247b  13 


XII 

Imthusa  na  nGreg  immo7'ro,  o  thainig  in  adaig  da  n-i?idsaigid1,  Xj, ' 
roimtigsed  a  n-élod  a  n-urtosach2  na  haidchi  sin,  7  rofhagsad  a  1 
longphort  lanfolam  7  treba3  na  Teibi  da  n-eiss.  Nir-togad4  tra 

46i5mergeda  ré  milid  Greg  agonn  imihecht  sin,  na  taisig  ré  na 
trenfheraib,  na  uirrig5  ré  n-airecAiaib,  acht  dochuaid  each  dib 
ar  athgairid  eolais  reime  dochum  a  chrichi  7  a  chmeoil,  -j  ba 
ferr  daib  na  tiastais  an  t&ngadar*. 

'Ma  Ti&banda,  immorro,  ba  fada  leo  in  adaig7  sin  can  cuirp 

4620  a  carad  -7  a  cumthach  d'  adlucud8  -j  d'anorugud,  7  ni  thugsad  da 
n-uid  na  da  n-airi  dala  na  nGreg  in  aidchi  sin. 

Et  o  tainig  an  la  cona  lanshoillsi  arnamarach,  raeirgedar  co 
moch  na  Tiabanda,  7  dochuadar  isin  n-ar»iach9,  -j  dobadar  co 
cend  tri  lá  -j  tri  n-aidchi  ag  loiscib10  7  ag  adlucad8  a  csem  7  a 

4625  carad  i[n]  neoch  dothuit11  dib  ré  Gregaib.   Nir  miad  immori'o  ré 
Créon  a  m/iac  do  loscad  ider  na  corpaib  sin  na  Tiaba?; da  .i.  60 
Meniciits;  -]  doti/ioilead  ré  Creón  sceith  -j  slega  na  nGreg  i[n] 
neoch  rafhagbaid  isin  n-armuig12,  7  dori/idead  leis  aentine  dib,  7 
roloiscerf13  leis  corp  a  mkic  isin  teinid14  adbail  idbarta  sin.    Et  o 

4Ó3otairnig  ré  Ti&bandaib  n[a]  teinti15  si/t  do  denam  7  na  cuirp  do 
loscad  7  d!  adlucztd8,  dochuadar  'na  c&thraig  arsin,  7  dobadar  co 
Hedach  fosaid16  inti. 

Adchualador  tra  banntrucht17  na  nGrec  na  scela  sin,  7  ad- 
chualaid  Argia,  ingen  alaiwd  Adraist,  ben18  Poiiniceis  a  ceili  do  113 

4635  mavbad  and.    Et  o  'dchualaieZ,  dothuit.    Rothuitsed  taissi  -j19 
taii/inella  iuirri  don  sgel  si»,  7  doerig  eistib  ar  n-uair,  -j  is  ed  1 1 2 
doraid :  "Rachad-sa20  trá,"  ar  si,  "  co  roisir21  an  Teib  con  fhaiciur22 
corp  cnisgeal mo  cetmunnteri  can  a  legad  d'ethaick'623 imluaimnecha 
aeoir  na  do  chuanartaib  cra?sacha  con."    Is  anrfsbi  rochoimeirig- 

1  E.  agaid  Eg.  Dala. ..a  n-oigt<?  da  n-innsaigh  2  Eg.  ar  elodh  re  birthosacb 
3  Eg.  trebai  4  Eg.  Ni  rotocb<ui  5  Eg.  urrighe  6  Eg.  nach  tigdis 

intan  tancotar  7  Eg.  Dala  na  Tia-...in  aigirf  8  Eg.  adhnuccul  9  Eg.  aruaeh 
10  Eg.  loiscthibh  u  Eg.  in  nech  rotoit  12  Eg.  in  nech  ro  facbatd  dibh 

isin  muigh  13  Eg.  aontine  romór  dibb  7  roloiscit  14  E.  teinig   Eg.  tine 

15  Eg.  na  tennte  16  Eg.  fossaid  E.  fosaig  17  Eg.  ban«trac/iia  18  Eg.  bean 
19  Eg.  rotoit  taisi  7  20  Eg.  rflc/iar-sa  2l  Eg.  risiur  22  Eg.  co  nn-aict/ur 
23  Eg.  co  nach  ligiur  aitbe  d'  etbaidib 

29S 


THE  THEBAID 


BOOK  XII 


As  to  the  Greeks,  however,  when  night  came  to  them,  they 
departed  in  flight  at  the  very  beginning  of  that  night,  and  they 
left  their  quite  empty  camp  and  the  homesteads  of  Thebes 
behind  them.  Now  at  that  departure,  no  banners  were  raised 
before  Greek  soldiers,  no  chiefs  were  before  their  champions,  or 
officers  before  their  companies,  but  each  of  them  went  by  a 
short-cut  leading  on  to  his  district  and  kindred.  And  it  would 
have  been  better  for  them  that  they  had  not  come,  when  they 
came. 

As  for  Thebans,  however,  they  thought  that  night  tedious,  with 
no  bodies  of  their  friends  or  comrades  to  be  buried  or  honoured ; 
and  they  did  not  observe  or  notice  regarding  the  Greeks  that 
night. 

And  when  day  came  with  its  full  brightness  on  the  morrow, 
the  Thebans  arose  early,  and  went  into  the  field  of  battle,  and 
they  were  there  for  three  days  and  three  nights  engaged  in 
cremations  and  burial  of  their  friends  and  relatives,  such  of  them 
as  had  fallen  by  Greeks.  Creon,  however,  did  not  deign  to  burn 
his  son,  to  wit,  Menoeceus,  among  those  bodies  of  the  Thebans; 
and  by  Creon  were  collected  the  shields  and  spears  of  the  Greeks, 
such  as  had  been  left  in  the  battlefield,  and  by  him  one  fire  was 
made  of  them  and  the  body  of  his  son  was  burned  in  that  huge 
sacrificial  fire.  And  when  the  Thebans  had  finished  making 
those  fires  and  burning  and  burying  the  bodies,  they  went  into 
their  city  afterwards,  and  were  feasting  and  resting  therein. 

Now  the  women  of  the  Greeks  heard  that  news,  as  did  Argia, 
Adrastus'  beautiful  daughter,  wife  of  Polynices,  that  her  spouse 
had  been  killed  there.  And  when  she  heard  it,  she  fell.  Weak- 
nesses and  deathlike  fits  fell  upon  her  at  that  news;  and 
alternately  she  arose  out  of  them,  and  this  is  what  she  said:  "Now 
I  shall  go,"  said  she,  "  till  I  reach  Thebes,  that  I  may  see  the 
white-skinned  body  of  my  spouse,  not  leaving  him  to  the  circling 
flocks  of  the  air  or  to  hungry  packs  of  dogs."  Then  she  proceeded 
299 


E.  $2*  43  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  248a  s 

4640  si  roiwipi  risin  toisc  sin,  -j  nir  luga  snim  a  saethar  .i.  Defili,  x„ 
ingen  rig  Greg,  ben  Tid1.  mic  rig  Calidoi??e2,  a[c]  cainead  a  fir  119 
fen  samla  ceina3.    Ba  buaidirthi4  immorro  bean  Ipimedon  dona5  122 
scelaib  sin  .i.  Neiccea  a  hainm,  ingen  rig  na  nAithininnsta6,  -j  nir 
luga  easbaid  Athlainti  i.  mathar  Partanape?n>,  and,  -j  ba7  chum- 

4645  thach  [do]no  bancheili  Chapaneim's  .i.  Euadne,  .i.  ingen  in  rig  na 
nEberda.  (col.  /3)  Et  tangada?-  sift  rompo  co  toirseach  cwmthach,  126 
-j  Airgia  rorapo,  áocham  na  Tebi,  -j  tugsada?'8  Iunai??d  ilc/irothach 
sligeda  seachmaill  seach  na  Gre*e  dona  ranaib  sin  .i.  do  sleib 
Ismos  -j  do  chathraig  Eiusis9. 

4650  Is  andsi??  dorala  senfher  do  Grecaib  ar  cá10  meraigthi  dona 
mnaib  sin  isin  sligid  .i.  Ornitiis  a  ainm,  -j  0  'dchualaid  sestan  -j 
medair11  na  mban,  sochtais  fair,  -\  aithniss  iád,  -j  [caidhis  leo,  ar 
ba  mor  a  truaighe  -\  Eg.]  raidis  riú :  "A  bandtracht  grwadglan12 
Greg,"  ar  se,  "  ca  leth  teigthi  ?  Et  an  sailti  amlaid  anor  d'  fadbail 

4Ó55agaib  -j  ag  Creon13  claencholach  ?    Et  is  í  mo  c/*o??iairli-si  daib  149 
can  techtu  an  turn^  sin,  uair  ni  leigfigter15  daib  na  cuirp  da 
teigthi  d'  iarraid16.    Is  ed  si  cora  daib,  dul  co  hair??i  a  fhuil  Teiss, 
mac    Eig,    mic    Neptuin,    ag    sruth    thondglan   Tearamón,   ar 
mbuaidchoscair  catha  ancisiw  do  bandtracftiaib  borrfadacha  na 

4660  Sceithia,  -j  abraid  ris  ar  in  mbaid  mbunaid  dul  lib  do  digail  bar 

cend  ar  Créon  croda  colach.    [Et  cuimnighedh  do  bes_  co  rotoit  -  V**** 
Partanapeus  mac  Meliager  re  Tiabandaib,  uair  comalta  com- 
gaiscedach  dosum  Meliager  -j  ni  maithfea  do  Tiabandaib  mac 
a  chomalta  -j  a  chompanaig  do  chomach."    Eg.] 

4665      O  'dchualaid  na  mná  sin,  robadar  drem  dib  aga  neriadh17 
dul  co  Teib  a  chedoir.    Rabadar  dono  drem  eili  dib  aga  rad  bá 
cora  dul  co  Teiss18.    Acht  cena  rochind  Argia  dul  co  Teib  can 
fWreach19  idir  ar  gradh  chuirp  a  chaemcheili,  -j  asbert  risna  195 
mnaib  ar  chena :   "Eirgid-si20  dochum  Theiss,  -j  sirid  fortac/if 

1  E.  saethair...Eg.  lugha  snim  a  shethar  .i.  Defilen  ben  Tit  2  Eg.  na 

G&ilidoinc  3  Eg.  samla  sin  4  E.  buaigh-thi  5  Eg.  baincele  Ip.  gruadhsholus 
dona  6  Eg.  na  hAithinista  isidhe  7  Eg.  Athalainnte  ingine  ri  na  hArcaide 
.i.  vaathax  P.  7  ua  8  Eg.  tucustar  9  Eg.  Eliusis  10  Eg.  cai 

11  Eg.  o  'dcualaid  na  mna  a  sestan  7  a  medhair  12  Eg.  aithnidh  iad 

7  caidhius  leo  ar  ba  mor  a  truaighe  7  raidhius  riu  a  bantrachta  gruadh  corcra 
13  Eg.  ac  Teib  7  ac  Creon  I4  Eg.  tocht  15  Eg.  lecfidhte»- 

16  Eg.  na  cuirp  sin  d'  iarraidh  na  d'  adbnucitZ  1T  Eg.  ac  nertudh  18  Eg.  rada 
ba  córa  dol  dochum  T.  ,0  Eg.  A.  ben  Pol.  dul  do  digail  ar  fer  7  fós  dul 

can  fairech  20  Eg.  -si  ar  si 


THE  THEBAID 

forward  on  that  errand.  And  not  less  was  the  anxiety  of  her 
sister,  to  wit,  Deipyle,  daughter  of  the  king  of  Greeks,  wife  of 
Tydeus,  son  of  the  king  of  Calydon,  as  she  wept  for  her  spouse 
in  the  same  manner.  Moreover,  the  wife  of  Hippomedon  was 
troubled  by  that  news,  to  wit,  Nealce,  daughter  of  the  king  of 
the  Athenians.  And  not  less  the  loss  of  Atalanta  mother  of 
Parthenopaeus  there ;  and  sad  also  was  Capaneus'  spouse,  to 
wit,  Euhadne,  daughter  of  the  king  of  the  Eberda.  And  those 
advanced  sadly  and  sorrowfully,  with  Argia  in  front,  unto  Thebes; 
and  beauteous  Juno  made  known  to  those  women  neglected 
paths  past  the  Greeks,  to  wit,  to  mount  Isthmos  (sic)  and  to  the 
city  of  Eleusis. 

There  one  of  the  Greeks  on  a  devious  path  met  those  women 
in  the  way,  to  wit,  Orny tus  his  name ;  and  when  he  heard  the 
clatter  and  talk  of  the  women,  silence  fell  upon  him,  and  he 
recognised  them,  and  he  wept  with  them,  for  great  was  his 
sorrow,  and  he  said  to  them  :  "  Bright-cheeked  Greek  women," 
said  he,  "  whither  go  ye  ?  And  do  ye  hope  thus  to  gain  respect 
with  yourselves  and  with  perverse  sinful  Creon  (.  And  this  is 
my  counsel  to  you  not  to  go  on  that  journey,  for  the  bodies  will 
not  be  granted  you  which  ye  go  to  ask.  This  is  more  proper 
for  you,  to  go  to  the  place  wherein  dwells  Theseus,  son  of  Aegeus, 
son  of  Neptune,  at  the  bright-waved  river  Thermodon,  after  the 
victorious  spoil  of  battle  there  uythe  angry  women  of  Scythia, 
and  adjure  him  by  the  original  affection  to  go  with  you  to 
avenge  your  heads  on  bloodstained  sinful  Creon.  And  let  him 
remember  perchance  that  Parthenopaeus  son  of  Meleager  fell 
by  Thebans,  for  Meleager  was  his  foster-brother  and  comrade 
in  arms ;  and  he  will  not  forgive  the  Thebans  for  breaking  the 
son  of  his  foster-brother  and  companion." 

When  the  women  heard  that,  some  of  them  were  inflaming 
them  to  go  to  Thebes  at  once.  Some  others  of  them,  again, 
were  saying  that  it  were  more  proper  to  go  to  Theseus.  Never- 
theless Argia  decided  to  go  to  Thebes  with  no  delay  at  all  for 
love  of  her  dear  spouse's  body.  And  she  said  to  all  the  women  : 
"  Go  ye  to  Theseus  and  ask  help  of  him,  and  I  shall  go  to  Thebes 
301 


E.  52b  i  g  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  248b  9 

4670  fair,  7  rachad-sa  co  Teib  7  m'  oidi  Menetess  rnara??*1  vixwi,  uair  xn  ' 
ataid  seatnracha  -j  carait  mo  cheili2  innti."    Et  dodealaigsed3 
amlaid   sin,  7   dochuaid   Argia  7  a  hoidi  isin  sligid  a  tai/ág4  207 
Ornitws  tré  fedaib  foithremla5  fasaig  7  tresna  cailltib  dluithi 
doiyntheachta,  7  dar  cnocaib  cendgarba  cairrgecha  co6  riachtadar 

4675  sliabh  Penith  a  comfhogus  don  Teib.    Et  raidis  ancfei»  ria:  "  Adar  244 
lium-sa7,  a  ingen,"  ar  se,  "as  fagus8  an  Teib  duifid,  uair  ad- 
cluinim-si  anoisi9  brentada  buaidirthi  mora  7  foscad10  -j  fuaim- 
neach  na  n-ethaidega  ag  eirgi  dona  habaigib11  isi?m  armach." 
Adchualaid  in  ingen  sin  7  sochtais  iuirri,  7  tug  treall  a12  thoirrse 

4680  7  ar  comrath  cwmthach  uaithi  risin  cathraig,  uair  tall  ceill  do 
rignacht13  na  cat/*rach,  7  tainig  asa  haithli  co  tech  iegairi  ba  268 
coimnesa  di  isi/it  sleib.    Adhnais  7  fhadaigis  di  tiruairsin  teinid 
bigi  bai  as  dig14,  co  raco?nlasada?-  na  haithincleada15,  7  o  ralasadar, 
dobean-si  aithi?;di  dib,  1  roeirig  si,  7  dogab16  athinui  crithrech 

4685  comlasamain  dib  ré  heolws  na  haidchi  d'  iar[r]aid  chuirp  a  ceili17. 
Rathoirmis[c]18  Menetess  uimpi-si  sin  conna19  faictis  na  Tiabancfo 
taidlech  in  athindi  isi?m  aidchi  sin.  Indsaigid  in  armaig20  arsin, 
7  sirit  co  rafegaid21  co  fuireachair  leo  cind  curad  arna  comach  7 
taib  tholla  trenf/;er  -j  cnis  gonta  gaisgedaig  na  nGrec  ag  iarraid 

469oPoh'm'cm  moir  rm'c  Eidip  [7  na  miled  Grecach  ar  chena  Eg.]. 

Is  and  doerig  Iunaind  ilchrothach  a  himdaid22  Ioif  mic  Saduirn  291 
d'  iarraid  fort&chta,  7  fhoirithni  do  Gregaib  ar  Menerba  ar  bande23 
an  gaisgid  airm  a  roibi  caithir  Theiss,  mic  Eig,  mic  Neptui/;.    Et 
ag  dul  do   lunaiwd  risin  toisc  si?i,  adchondairc  Airgia,  ingin 

4695  Adraist,  ag  siredh  in  air  do  churp  a  csemcheili  a  ndorcadaid24  na 
haidchi.  Ragreis  Iunai?id  andsin  bandei  na  haidchi  .i.  Luna 
una25  soillsiugud  do  Airgia  no  ga  fadba26  corp  a  fir.  Is  andsin 
rosoillsig  luna27  maigi  7  tulcha  7  an  talam  (p.  53)  7  o  rashoillsig, 

1  Eg.  maraon  2  Eg.  coemcelt  3  Eg.  rodeiligsit   E.  dodealaidsed 

4  Eg.  isint  sligid  i  tainic  5  Eg.  fothremra  6  Eg.  uli  co  7  Eg.  Men. 

ria  dalta  athar  liumsa  8  Eg.  is  comfhogus  9  Eg.  atcluinimsea  anois 

10  E.  brentaga   Eg.  brentusa  buaidirtha  7  morfoscad  n  Eg.  ethaidei/f  ac 

erghi  do  hapad-  1S  Eg.  ar  13  Eg.  rotriall  a  baire  do  rigbnocht 

14  Eg.  Ataidbis  a  boidi  di  tiruairsina  beca  teinedk  boi  istigh  15  Eg.  a  baitb- 
inndba  18  Eg.  rogab  E.  dogab  7  17  Eg.  coemceli  18  Eg.  Kotabrmesc 
19  Eg.  -se  sin  co  nacb  20  Eg.  int  armacb  21  Eg.  sirit  e  gu  rroimpait  7  gu 
rrofegbait  22  Eg.  huamaigb  -3  Eg.  Uenerua  .i.  bainndei  24  Eg.  curp  Pol. 
moir  an  dorchadas  E.  a  caem  repeated .. .ndorchs.da.ig  25  Eg.  im  26  Eg.  dA. 
ul-  (=vel  =  no)  co  fagb«ii/(         27  E.  lug  na 

302 


THE  THEBAI1) 

with  my  tutor  Menoetes  along  with  me,  for  sisters  and  friends 
of  my  spouse  dwell  therein."  And  thus  they  parted,  and  Argia 
and  her  tutor  went  the  way  Ornytus  had  come  through  the 
bosky  wild  woods,  and  the  dense  impassable  forests  and  through 
the  rough-headed  rocky  knolls,  till  they  reached  mount  Pentheus 
in  the  vicinity  of  Thebes.  And  then  he  said  to  her:  "  Methinks, 
maiden,"  said  he,  "  that  Thebes  is  near  to  us,  for  I  now  perceive 
troublesome  great  stenches,  and  the  shadow  and  the  sound  of 
the  bird-flocks  rising  from  the  entrails  in  the  battlefield."  The 
maiden  heard  that,  and  silence  fell  upon  her,  and  she  devoted  a 
while  to  sorrow  and  sad  colloquy  with  the  city,  for  she  had  lost 
hope  of  the  queenship  of  the  city.  And  she  came  afterwards  to 
the  house  of  a  shepherd  that  was  near  her  in  the  mountain.  He 
kindled  and  lighted  for  her  the  remnant  of  a  little  fire  that 
was  in  the  house,  so  that  the  firebrands  blazed  up ;  and  when 
they  were  ablaze,  she  plucked  out  one  of  the  brands,  and  she  arose, 
and  began  to  use  one  of  the  quivering  flaming  brands  to  show 
the  way  at  night  in  order  to  seek  her  spouse's  body.  Menoetes 
restrained  her  therefrom,  that  the  Thebans  might  not  see  the 
gleam  of  the  torch  that  night.  Thereafter  they  approach  the 
battlefield  and  search,  till  by  them  were  examined  attentively 
the  Greek  heroes'  utterly  broken  heads,  the  champions'  pierced 
sides,  and  the  warriors'  wounded  skins,  as  they  sought  for  great 
Polynices,  son  of  Oedipus,  and  all  the  Greek  soldiers. 

Then  arose  beauteous  Juno  from  the  couch  of  Jove,  son  of 
Saturn,  to  seek  help  and  aid  for  Greeks  from  Minerva,  goddess 
of  valour,  where  was  the  city  of  Theseus,  son  of  Aegeus,  son  of 
Neptune.  And  on  Juno's  going  with  that  message,  she  saw 
Argia,  daughter  of  Adrastus,  searching  the  field  of  slaughter  for 
the  body  of  her  dear  spouse  in  the  darkness  of  the  night.  Then 
Juno  urged  the  goddess  of  night,  to  wit,  the  Moon,  to  give  light 
to  Argia  till  she  should  find  her  husband's  body.  Then  the  Moon 
lit  up  plains,  hills,  and  the  earth ;  and  when  she  did,  Argia 
recognised  in  the  distance  the  body  and  dress  of  her  dear  spouse 
303 


E.  53a  i  TOG  AIL  XA  TEBE  Eg.  249a  13 

aithnis1  Airgia  uaithi  corp  -j  citwthach2  a  cae/ucheili  Poliniceis,  x^, ' 

4700  mic  Eidip.    Et  saigis3  da  indsaigid  -j   adchontfairc  an  migne 
marbda  bai  fora  ceili4.    Tainig  anbaindi  'na  hanmain  -\  tarn  ar  a 
tengaid  -|  ceo  cumad  tar  a  rose,  -j  leigis  'na  loigi5  fair  hi,  -j  pogais  319 
an  gilla,  -j  asa  haithli  sin  raidis8  ris :  "  Is  truag  atathar  andsi?r 
adrasta,  a  gilla,"  ar   si,  "-j   is  at  fudammanta  firdoi??me7  na 

4705  [halaid  Eg.]  fiarledarthe  confer  do8  brathai'r  fort,  -]  fá  tren9 
damsa  ag  toirmesc  umat  in  turais-[s]a  -j  dttrsan  nacha-ranais 
again  -7  biaid  do  mac  becc10  'com  choi//idi?ignadh  tar  h'  eis  .i. 
Tesanndrus11  mac  Poliniceis,  -j  ni  ricfa  ceili  eili  mo  chneas-[s]a 
na  mo  choimleabairl  [tar  th'  eis  ar  th'  inmoine.    Et  dursan  ar 

47iocoimriachtain  intan  conrangus  icon  cathraig  alaind  Adraist,  *j  is 
fada  bam  comthach-sa  dod  bas  ar  t'  eis  "  Eg.]. 

Acus  antan  robai-si  'con  nuallguba  si/?12,  is  and  tainig  amach  349 
asin  Teib  Ain/itigoine13,  siur  Poliniceis  -j  Eotiocleis  -\  aithindi 
lasamai/t  'na  laim  ag  dul  d'  adlucad  a  brait/zrech29.    Et  is  a  ngoid 

47i5dochuaid  si  an  toisc  sin,  uair  nir-lamh  ré  Créón14  dul  cosaird  do 
loscad  chorp15  a  braithrech29.    Et  o  Vlchond[airc]  Airgia  a  farrad 
na  fer,  labrais  ria :  "  Gabadh  cia16  sud  ?  "  ar  si.    Ni  ra[fh]regair  366 
Airgia  [di  ar  met  a  huaman  Eg.].    Labrais  Antigoine  an  dara 
iecht,  -)  is  ed  asbert :  "A  dume,"  ar  si,  "nacb  gabad  egla  -\  misi17 

4720  Antigoi?ze,  siur  na  fer18  os  atai  a  ci?id19?  -j  ar  na  deib  rit,  cid  be 
cia  thú20,  tabair  congnam  dam  a  comlosgud21  a  corp."  0  'dchulaiVZ 
Airgia  sin,  ba  failid  a  haigned  de,  -j  dorigne  a  sloindead  di,  -j : 
"  Masa  thusa  sin,"  ar  si,  "  is  im-si  Airgia,  mgen  Adraist22,  bean 
Poliniceis."  Comaiscsit23  and&in  a  n-ajnmaigi?i24  os  cind  na  corp  -j  386 

47^5  co??ilaigid25  forro  -j  badar  and  a[c]  comrath  -j  a[c]26  comtoirrsi  .i. 
Airgia  ag  indisi/i  seel  -j  tesmolta27  a  fir  Poliniceis,  Antigoine  ag 
adhmolad  -j  ag  fhaisneis  seel  ~Eitiocleis2S.   Ba  fada  ré  Menetes, 

1  Eg.  aithnigis  -  Eg.  comdach  3  Eg.  saighis  4  Eg.  rouai 

ara  celt'«  5  Eg.  leigis  'na  luighe  6  E.  raigis  7  Eg.  7  as  at  f/rdoimne 
fudo/MíUídai  8  Eg.  na  haldúí  fiarledardha  tuc  do  9  Eg.  ua  tren  10  E.  bice 
11  Eg.  Tesanndorus  12  Eg.  rouai-sium  'con  nuallgubai  sin  13  Eg.  Antigone 
14  Eg.  ac  Creon  15  Eg.  cosaird  om. ...cuirp  16  Eg.  Gauad  cia  17  Eg.  7  is 
niisi  18  Eg.  fer  sin  l9  E.  a  chind    Eg.  atai  cind  20  Eg.  cia  bé  tú 

21  Eg.  dam  fo  comloscad  22  E.  dorigne  a  a  si.  Eg.  slondudh  di.  Is  misi  Argia 
ingen  Adraist  23  Eg.  comfaicsigsit  24  Eg.  eninudh  25  Eg.  comloighit 
26  Eg.  andsin  ac  comradh  7  a  27  Eg.  testmolta  28  Eg.  Antigone  ag  innsin 
seel  Etio-  7  'ca  hadbmoladh  29  Eg.  brathar 

304 


THE  THEBAID 

Polynices,  son  of  Oedipus.  And  she  approached  him,  and  saw 
the  dead  unloveliness  that  settled  upon  her  spouse.  Weakness 
came  into  her  mind,  stupor  upon  her  tongue,  and  a  mist  of 
sorrow  over  her  eyes ;  and  she  fell  prostrate  upon  him,  kissed  the 
lad,  and  after  that  said  to  him  :  "  Wretched  is  now  thy  state 
there,  lad,"  said  she,  "  and  abysmal  and  very  deep  are  the  jagged 
wounds  thy  brother  hath  inflicted  on  thee.  And  I  was  strong 
in  dissuading  thee  from  this  journey,  and  sad  it  is  that  thou 
didst  not  remain  with  me,  and  thy  little  son  will  be  comforting 
me  after  thou  art  gone,  to  wit,  Thersander  son  of  Polynices. 
And  no  other  spouse  will  come  to  my  bosom  or  my  bed  after 
thee  because  of  thy  lovableness.  And  sad  was  our  meeting 
when  I  met  thee  at  the  beautiful  city  of  Adrastus ;  and  long 
shall  I  be  mourning  for  thy  death  after  thou  art  gone." 

And  when  she  was  at  that  wail  of  distress,  then  came  forth 
from  Thebes,  Antigone,  the  sister  of  Polynices  and  Eteocles, 
with  a  flaming  torch  in  her  hand,  as  she  went  to  bury  her 
brothers.  And  it  was  by  stealth  she  went  on  that  errand ;  for 
she  did  not  dare,  owing  to  Creon,  to  go  openly  to  bury  the 
bodies  of  her  brothers.  And  when  she  saw  Argia  near  the  men, 
she  said :  "  Who  is  yonder  ?  Let  him  say,"  said  she.  Argia  did 
not  answer  her  because  of  the  greatness  of  her  fear.  Antigone 
spoke  the  second  time,  and  this  is  what  she  said  :  "O  man,"  said 
she,  "  shouldest  thou  not  fear,  seeing  I  am  Antigone,  sister  of  the 
men  over  whom  thou  standest  ?  And  I  adjure  thee  by  the  gods 
whoever  thou  art,  assist  me  to  burn  their  bodies."  When  Argia 
heard  that,  her  heart  rejoiced  at  it,  and  she  gave  her  her  surname, 
and  said  she  :  "  If  that  be  thou,  I  am  Argia,  daughter  of  Adras- 
tus, wife  of  Polynices."  They  embraced  there  on  the  spot  above 
the  bodies,  and  they  prostrated  themselves  on  them,  and  they 
remained  there  in  conversation  and  in  a  common  sorrow,  to  wit, 
Argia  narrating  tales  and  details  of  her  husband  Polynices, 
Antigone  lauding  and  telling  tales  of  Eteocles.  Menoetes,  Argia's 
c  305  20 


E.  53a  26  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  249b  15 

ré  hoiti  Airgia,  robai1  ina  farrad,  a  comrath  ['na  inngnais  Eg.]1^' 
1  raidis  riú :  "Caisgid2  bar  comrath,"  ar  se,  "-j  denaid  ini  ras- 

4730  tangabair3,  7  is  deread  don  aidchi,  7  ata  an  lá  a[c]  coimt/in'all 
chugaib."    Et  is  andsin  doeirgedar  a  triur,  7  rotogbadar4  'ma 
seach  leo  cuirp  na  fer  sin  ~Eotiocleis5  7  'Poliniceis  co  himlib  srotha  409 
Ismen,  rabai6  a  comfhogus  don  Teib.    Et  o  raglansad  andsin 
curpu  na  c?<rad  o  thondaib  srotha  alaind  Ismen,  fuaradar  teinid7 

4735  a  cj^and  a  comfhogus  doib  arna  marthain  tre  chumachtaih  na 
ndee  -And,  7  rofhadodar-sam8  tor  tei?iead  romoire  do  c/irinach  7  420 
do  c/fomlasamain  na   cailleadh,  -j  dochuiised  na  curpu9  fuirri 
ba  chetoir,  7  rabadar  na  cuirp  a[c]  comlasadh10, 1  rodianscailsed11, 
7  rodelaig  an  teme  1  an  buinde  lasamai??  lasrach  bai  uastu  a 

4740  comartha12  eassaentaga  -j  ainindi  na  deisi  asa  cu[i]rp  rabái  fuirri13. 
Et  intan  robadar  fan  samla  sin,  tainig  torand  bres  adbalmor  and, 
co  racAn'thnaigsed  tuir  7  tigi  na  Tebi,  cor-erigsedar  fairiri14  7 
forcoimedaid  an  baili,  7  tangada?'  mih'd  na  cathrach.  amach  ar  an 
mag  mor  reidh15.    0  'dchondairc  Meinitess,  ragab  eagla  mor  hé, 

4745  -j  rabadar  na  mna16  agan  teinid  can  eagla  Chreom  na  [a]  mantire 
forro,  uair  ba  ferrdi  leó  bass  d'  fadbail17  o  rasiacht  led  ani  rus- 
tangadar.  Et  robadar  aga  inrfisi18  a  n-ardchomrath  atorra,  co 
cluircdis  munter  an  rig  mar  thugsad  leo  na  curpu19  co  (col.  yS) 
hairm   a   rabada?*,   7    o  'dclos    lad    fan   samla   si??,  docuas   da 

475on-indsaigid20.  Roceanglaid  -j  rochuibrigid  iad  7  rugaid  a  forcho- 
mal  dochum  Chreón21  cholaigh. 

Dala  Airgia  mná  Poliniceis  conuigi  sin. 

[Toichestal  na  mban  nGrecach  so  sis.    Eg.] 

Imthusa  immorro  na  mban  dochuaid22  d'  iarraid  fhoirithne23  ar 

4755Theis,  mac  Eigh,  [mic  Neptain  Eg.],  rangadar  co  hathlum24  co 
cat/iraig  Theis,  [-j  ni  roiue  Teis  annsa  chathraig  in  tan  sin  Eg.], 
1  rofhiarfacht25  doib  isin  baili  can  a  ci?iel,  7  cid  ni  risi  ndecha- 
dar26.   Jlofregradar-s&m  a  n-eenfhecht,  7  roinrfisedar  tachar  na 

1  Eg.  .i.  re  hoide  Argia  bai  a  E.  caistid  Eg.  caisgidh  3  Eg.  inni  risi-  4  Eg.  na 
triur  7  rotocabastar  5  Eg.  cuirp  na  rigb  leo  .i.  E.  6  Eg.  rouái  7  Eg.  7  fuaratar 
tene  E.  teinig  8  Eg.  rofatador-sum  9  Eg.  rocbuirsit  na  cuirp  10  Eg.  cornlasa- 
main  u  Eg.  rodianscail  12  Eg.  a  comardba  E.  7  coniartba  13  Eg.  essewta... 
na  deisi  sin  isa  cuirp  rouai  fuirri  14  Eg.  gur-ergetar  foirairedba  15  E.  reigb 
16  Eg.  Menetes  beclai  é  7  roimidb  on  teinidb  na  mna  v  roansat  17  Eg.  do 

i&gbail  18  Eg.  ca  n-innisin  19  Eg.  curpu  na  righ  sin  20  Eg.  da  innsaigid 
21  Eg.  a  forcbomail...C/irfom  22  Eg.  docbuatar  23  Eg.  foiridbtb»i  21  E.  co 
hathaiw   Eg.  co  batblu/»     25  Eg.  roriarfocbt     26  Eg.  ca  cinel  7  ca  ni  risi  tancabar 

306 


THE  THEBAID 

tutor,  who  was  present  with  them,  wearied  of  their  conversing 
without  him,  and  he  said  to  them  :  "  Cease  your  conversation," 
said  he,  "  and  do  the  thing  ye  have  come  for,  seeing  it  is  the 
end  of  the  night,  and  the  day  is  advancing  upon  you."  Then  the 
three  of  them  arose,  and  by  them  in  turn  the  bodies  of  those  men, 
Eteocles  and  Polynices,  were  lifted  to  the  banks  of  the  river 
Ismenos,  that  was  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Thebes.  And  when 
they  had  there  cleansed  the  bodies  of  the  heroes  with  the  waves 
of  the  beautiful  river  Ismenos,  they  found  near  them  a  fire  of 
wood  continuing  there  through  the  powers  of  the  gods.  And 
they  lit  a  pile  of  a  very  great  fire  of  dry  sticks  and  of  inflammable 
stuff  of  the  forest,  and  they  placed  the  bodies  on  it  forthwith, 
and  the  bodies  were  blazing  together,  and  they  swiftly  fell 
asunder,  and  the  fire  and  the  stream  of  rushing  flame  that  was 
above  them  parted  as  a  sign  of  the  disunion  and  anger  of  the 
twain  whose  bodies  were  upon  the  fire.  And  when  they  were 
thus,  there  came  exceeding  great  thunder,  so  that  the  towers 
and  houses  of  Thebes  shook,  and  the  watchmen  and  warders  of 
the  town  arose,  and  the  soldiers  of  the  city  came  forth  upon  the 
great  level  plain.  When  Menoetes  saw  them,  great  fear  seized 
him,  but  the  women  at  the  fire  were  without  fear  of  Creon  or 
his  people  for  themselves,  for  they  preferred  to  die  when  they 
had  accomplished  the  thing  they  had  come  for.  And  they  were 
relating,  in  high  converse  among  them,  so  that  the  people  of  the 
king  might  hear,  how  they  had  brought  the  bodies  where  they 
were.  And  when  they  were  heard  thus,  they  were  approached, 
tied,  bound,  and  brought  in  fetters  to  sinful  Creon. 

As  to  Argia,  wife  of  Polynices,  thus  far. 

The  muster  of  the  Greek  women  here  below. 

Now  as  to  the  women  who  went  to  ask  help  of  Theseus,  son 
of  Aegeus,  son  of  Neptune,  they  arrived  in  haste  at  the  city  of 
Theseus,  and  Theseus  was  not  in  the  city  at  that  time ;  and  it 
was  demanded  of  them  in  the  town  whence  their  kindred,  and 
what  the  business  on  which  they  had  come.  They  answered  at 
once,  and  narrated  the  fray  of  the  Thebans  and  the  Greeks,  and 
307  20—2 


E.  53b  8  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  250a  17 

Tiabanda  -j  na  nGreg  -j  clvenbhreth1  Creoin  can  chuirp  na  nG?-eg   Xjr" 

4760  do  legan2  do  loscad  ná  do  lesubad  'na  tir  [na]  'na3  talmain. 

Et  o  raindisedar  na  scela  si??,  is  ana7  dobai4  altoir  alaind  458 
idbarta  ar  lár  an  baili,  arna  coisegrad  do  dee5  na  trocairi  .i. 
Misericordia,  -j  fidnemad  fhoithreamail  'ma6  t/iimcheall.    Et  ni  482 
ba  dilmai??7  do  duine  dul  chum  na8  haltora  si?i  acht  do  dai/iib 

4765  uaisli  robid  i  ??-egindail  [-]  i  ndochuraal  Eg.],  -j  dochuadar  na 
mna9  da  hindsaigidh  d'  iarraid  furtachta,  fwirri80,  -j  antan  robadar 
ag  iarraid  a  n-itchi  urn  fhoirithin10  agon  altoir11,  is  andsin 
adchualada?-  an  suba  -]  in  somenmai?i12  -j  na  gairi  comaidmi 
amuich  ar  an  fhaithchi.    Agus  is  é  dobai  andsi??,  Teis,  mac  Eig,  519 

4770  rm'c  ~Neftuin   [-j]  coscur  -j  comaidi?»  na  Sceithia  tuaiscertaigi 
aigi  o  shleib13  Boir.    Et  tangadar  amach  andsi??  lucht  an  baili 
iter  mnaib  -j  feraib  do  fhegad  Theiss  um  fhoirithin.    Et  u??ia 
robai-si?«n  amlaid  -j    sceith   na  Sceitheagda14   'na  t/iimcheall,  525 
carpaid  *j   cloidmi  na  Cichloiscthi ;    -j   Ipoliti15    rigan    na    Ci- 

4775  chloiscthi,  a  carbad  cha3???cheithi[r]riada16  ar  eachaib  ailli 
allmarda30  a3?igela  'na  farrad17.  Is  ancisi?i  tangadar  mna  buaid- 
irthi  badbcha3Í??techa  tamacha  toirrseacha  na  nGrec  dochum  an 
gilla  si??.  Aithnigis-si?M/i  iad18,  -j  fiarfaigis  scela  dib.  Rafhregair 
Euogeini19,  ben  Capanei?/is20,  do,  -j  is  ed  isbert  fris :  "  A  thren-  545 

47Somi\id,  a  Theiss,"  ar  si,  "an  cualadais  ar  na  nG?'ec21  do  chur  do 
Thioibandaib  ad  i?ignais30  [-j  a  righe  do  marbad  Eg.]  ?    Et   a 
hArgus  tangamar-ni  .i.  a  cathraig22  oireachais  na  nGrec,  -\  ba  549 
hiad  ar  fhir-ni  na  rig23  domarbaa7  andsi».    Et  rachino7  Créo»  ri24 
na  Teibi25  can  a  cuirp  [do  lecin  Eg.]  do  loscad  na  d'  adlucad26  'na 

4785  thir.  Et  ar  na  dei  rit-su,  airchis  dúidi27,  -j  eirig  d'  adlucud28  na 
n-abach  sin  do  bunadcineoil29  bodei?i."    Et  a  ndebairt  in  ingen 

1  Eg.  nGrecach  7  claon  bretbai  2  Eg.  na  Grecach  do  lecan  3  Eg.  lesugud 
ina  tir  na  ina  4  Eg.  rouai  5  Eg.  coisrecad  do  dei  6  Eg.  fidhmemedha 
foitbremZa  'na         7  Eg.  dilmaiiie  8  Eg.  dul  d'  mnsaigid  na  9  E.  mbna 

10  Eg.  uma  foiridbtbift       u  E.  ago/m  a.  Eg.  altoir  sin       12  Eg.  in  tsubba  7  in 
tsomenmain  13  Eg.  7  coscair  7  commaidbem  na  Sciatbia  tuascertaigb  aiei  a 

tuaigb  0  sbliabb  14  Eg.  fegadb  Teis.  Et  is  amlaid  rouai-sium  amlaid  sin 

7  sceith  na  Sceitbedba    15  Eg.  7  carpaid  na  Cicbloisci  aigi  7  a  cloidem  7  Ipolite 
16  Eg.  cam  cet^iimata         17  Eg.  ina  fbarrudb  18  Eg.  aicbnidbis-si«m  iatt 

19  Eg.  Uenage»ie  20  Eg.  Capan.  mic  Tairsis  21  Eg.  nGrecach 

22  Eg.  .i.  cathair  23  Eg.  righe  2i  Eg.  Creon  righ  2S  Eg.  Tiauanda 

26  Eg.  adhnucul  27  Eg.  airgis  dinne  28  Eg.  d  adnucul  29  Eg.  dot 

bunadhcftinel        30  Eg.  om. 

308 


THE  THEBAID 

the  perverted  judgment  of  Creon  not  to  allow  the  bodies  of  the 
Greeks  to  be  burned  or  harboured  in  his  land  or  country. 

And  when  they  had  told  those  tales,  there  was  a  beautiful 
altar  for  sacrifice  in  the  middle  of  the  town,  consecrated  to  the 
goddess  of  mercy,  to  wit,  Misericordia,  with  a  bosky  sacred  grove 
around  it.  And  it  was  not  lawful  for  a  person  to  go  to  that  altar 
save  for  noble  persons  who  were  in  distress  and  difficulty. 
And  the  women  went  towards  it  to  ask  help  of  her ;  and  when 
they  were  urging  their  prayer  for  help  at  the  altar,  then  they 
heard  the  joy,  the  gladness,  and  the  boastful  cries  outside  on 
the  lawn.  And  he  that  was  there  was  Theseus,  son  of  Aegeus, 
son  of  Neptune,  with  the  victory  and  boast  of  Northern  Scythia 
as  his  from  mount  Pharos  (sic).  And  there  came  forth  the  in- 
habitants of  the  town,  both  women  and  men,  to  see  Theseus 
about  assistance.  And  with  regard  to  him,  thus  was  he,  with 
the  shields  of  the  Scythians  about  him,  and  the  chariots 
and  the  swords  of  the  Amazons ;  and  as  for  Hippolyte,  queen 
of  the  Amazons,  he  had  near  him  her  fine  four-horsed  chariot 
yoked  to  beautiful  foreign  pure-white  steeds.  Then  came  the 
troubled,  war-plaintful,  plagued,  and  sorrowful  women  of  the 
Greeks  to  that  lad.  He  recognised  them,  and  asked  news  of 
them.  Euhadne,  wife  of  Capaneus,  answered  him,  and  this  is 
what  she  said  to  him :  "  0  strong  soldier,  Theseus,"  said  she, 
"  hast  thou  heard  that  a  slaughter  of  the  Greeks  has  been  in- 
flicted by  the  Thebans  in  thy  absence,  and  that  their  kings  have 
been  slain  ?  And  from  Argos  have  we  come,  to  wit,  from  the 
capital  city  of  the  Greeks,  and  the  kings  that  were  slain  there 
were  our  husbands.  And  Creon,  the  king  of  Thebes,  has  resolved 
that  their  bodies  should  not  be  permitted  to  be  burned  or  buried 
in  his  land.  And  I  beseech  thee  by  the  gods,  take  pity  on  us, 
and  arise  and  come  to  bury  those  entrails  of  thine  own  original 
kin."  And  what  that  maiden  said,  all  the  women  said  as  well. 
309 


E.  53b  35  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  250b  16 

sin,  is  ed  adruhradar  na  mna  uili1.    Fregrais  Teis  daib,  ■]  is  x^ ' 
ed  doraid :  "  Ba  sidamai'Z  trá2  dofhagb?í.s-[sa]  na  Greig  antan  591 
dochuadns-[s]a  gusan  Sceithia3,  -j,  a  Chreoin,"  ar  se,  "  cid  mo 

4790  choscar-sa  'dchluintea-sa,  nir-bo  choir4  duit  an  cinnead  sin  do 
denam."    Et  rama5  adbert  sin  -j  doraid  ré  araid  .i.  Fiegeiws: 
"  Eirig  romat  co  Teib  [a  ghilla  Eg.],"  ar  se,  "-]  abair  ré  Créón 
adlaicter  leis  na  G?'egaig  no  fWthailead  cathugud  rim-sa6."    Et  598 
ger-ba  toirrsecha  na  sluaig,  tangadar  arse/í  ré  Teis  da  sluagad. 

4795  Nir-leigead  scailead  na  scandrad  doib  acht  a  mornertad  ré  Teis 
dochum  na  Teibi,  -j  rothinoil7  fuillead  sluag  -]  sochraidi  da  n- 
indsaigid  .i.  fir  i»dsi  Barón  do  muir  Thoirrian  -j  indsi  Maradon6i5 
1  indsi  Piria8  -j  na  cathrach  Melena  -j  Charna  -j  Sermon  -|  Salmis  627 
-j   Eiliusis.    Et  dono  dorachad9  Ipoleiti  rigan   na  Cichloiscthi  636 

4800  isin  tinol  sin  mina  thoirmisced  Teiss  uiwipi,  uair  fá  torrach  uad 
fein  i.  (p.  54)  [Et  is  e  toirrches  rouái  aici  andsin  Uirbius  mac 
Ipolite, -j  is  ris  atberur Uirbius Uirbibens  his,-]  niho  athair.i.oTeis 
mac  Eig  sloinnter  in  mac  sin  acht  o  m[h]athair  .i.  Ipolite.  Et  is 
e   tainic  a  sochraidi  Thuirn  mic   Duin  i  n-aigid  Ainiasa   ar 

4805  cathugud  na  hEdaille  -|  na  Rutulla.  Ar  ba  do  Grecaibh  bunadh- 
cinel  Tuirn,  conadh  aire  sin  tainic  Uirbius  mac  Teis  1  Ipolite  a 
cathugud  na  Rutalla  a  n-aigid  Troighinach  -j  Ainiasa  -]  do 
chumgnam  le  Rutallaibh.  Et  is  e  sin  tindrem  genemna 
Uirbius  -j   is  e  roatnuighsit  na  dei  fá  dó  iarna  marbad   tre 

48iofochann  a  lesmathar.    Eg.  251a  2 — 15.] 

Et  o  dariachtadar  na  sluaigh  si?i  co  hse/imad,  is  ed10  doraid 
Teiss   riú:    "A   firu,"   ar   se,   "  cowidaingnigid    bar   n-aigenta,  643 
•j  teindeasnaigi  co  Teib  can  anad  a  llo  no  a  n-aidchi  no  co  roisti11 
da  hindsaigid."    Is  andsin  roeirgedar  an  morsochraidi  sin  co 

48 1 5  racAWthnaig  an  talam  ré  miri  na  midach  ba  na12  milidaih  1  ré 
trethan  na  cur&d  comnart  ag  comtincíinttó  dochum  an  catha, 
cor-ba  ród  robuan  ina  criaid13  chomsuaiti  cróderg  each  mag 
reid  roglas  tara  teigdiss  an   sluag14  sin,  -j  ba  soillsi  slesa  na 

1  Eg.  roraidhsit  na  mna  eli  uli  2  Eg.  am  3  Eg.  isin  Sc.  4  Eg.  coir 
6  Eg.  7  is  cuma  a  Eg.  Grecaig  ul-  (  =  vel  =  no)  fritholad  c.  damsa  '  Eg.  sluai- 
ged...rothinoiled  8  Eg.  innsi  Piria  do  muir  T-  na-  9  Eg.  7  na  cathraclm 
Grecia  Melena  ab  thanensibus  Carna  7  Sermon  a  Calidoin  7  Salmis  ciuitas  7 
Eleusis  alius  ciuitas  7  dorachudh  10  Eg.  is  ed  E.  p  u  E.  comdaingniagttd... 
Eg.  a  n-aidhchi  ul-  (  =  vel  =  no)  co  roisti  hi  12  Eg.  gur-uo  cvithnaigthech... 

fo  na        13  Eg.  rot  robocc  in  criaidh        14  Eg.  dara  tigdis  na  si. 

3IO 


THE  THEBAID 

Theseus  answered  them,  and  this  is  what  he  said :  "  Indeed  I 
left  the  Greeks  at  peace  when  I  went  to  Scythia,  and,  0  Creon," 
said  he,  "  though  it  were  my  defeat  thou  hadst  heard  of,  thou 
oughtest  not  to  have  made  that  resolution."  And  no  sooner  had 
he  said  that  than  he  said  to  his  charioteer,  to  wit,  Phegeus : 
"  Go  forward  to  Thebes,  0  lad,"  said  he,  "  and  say  to  Creon  '  let 
the  Greeks  be  buried  by  him,  or  let  him  prepare  to  fight  with 
me '."  And  though  the  hosts  were  sad,  they  came  along  with 
Theseus  to  their  hosting.  Separating  or  scattering  was  not 
allowed  them,  but  only  their  great  strengthening  along  with 
Theseus  for  Thebes.  And  he  gathered  more  hosts  and  armies  to 
attack  it,  to  wit,  the  men  of  the  isle  of  Brauron  (sic)  of  the 
Torrian  sea,  and  the  isle  of  Marathon  (sic),  and  the  isle  of  Piraeus, 
and  of  the  cities  of  Melaena,  Parnes  (sic),  Sunion  (sic),  Salamis 
(sic)  and  Eleusis.  And  also  Hippolyte,  queen  of  the  Amazons, 
would  have  gone  in  that  gathering,  had  Theseus  not  prevented 
her ;  for  she  was  pregnant  by  himself.  And  the  conception  she 
had  then  was  Urbius  son  of  Hippolyte,  and  he  is  called  Urbius 
Urbibens  subsequently.  And  it  is  not  from  his  father,  the  son 
of  Aegeus,  that  that  boy  was  named  but  from  his  mother,  to 
wit,  Hippolyte.  And  he  it  was  that  came  in  the  army  of  Turnus, 
son  of  Daunus,  against  ^Eneas,  to  fight  for  Italy  and  Rutulia. 
For  Turnus'  original  extraction  was  Greek,  so  that  it  is  for  that 
reason  that  Urbius,  son  of  Theseus  and  Hippolyte,  came  to  fight 
for  the  Rutulians  against  the  Trojans  and  ^Eneas,  and  to  help 
the  Rutulians.  And  that  is  the  beginning  of  Urbius'  genealogy  ; 
and  he  it  was  whom  the  gods  twice  revived  after  he  had  been 
killed  by  means  of  his  stepmother. 

And  when  those  hosts  had  arrived  at  one  place,  this  is  what 
Theseus  said  to  them  :  "  Men,"  said  he,  "  fortify  your  hearts,  and 
hasten  unto  Thebes  without  delay  by  day  or  by  night,  till  ye 
arrive  at  it."  Then  arose  that  great  army,  so  that  the  earth 
shook  from  the  madness  of  the  stallions  under  the  soldiers,  and 
from  the  tempestuous  temper  of  the  powerful  heroes  hastening 
unto  the  battle,  so  that  every  level  very  green  plain  over  which 
that  host  might  go  became  a  very  durable  road  of  kneaded 
blood-red  clay,  and  the  sides  of  the  mountains  past  which  they 

311 


E.  54a  9  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg,  251 

sleibteg1  secha  tigdis  re  taitnem  na  n-arm  loindreach2  lasamai?? 


Theb. 

XII 


4820  badar  uastu,  -j  ba  hadbal  a  fogar3  bres  isinn  aér  uastu,  [re  Eg.] 
mthgair4  a  n-ar/?i  n-exam/Ja  n-urnocAto5  ag  buai?i  ré  aroili.  Et 
robái  co?ntniith  mór  acco  ag  cosnam  thosaig  do  vochtain  dochtan 
na  Teibi  da  togail.  Ba  suaithnigta6  an  ri  romor  gasta7  roalaind 
'ma  roibi  an  shocAraidi  sin  .i.  Teis,  mac  Eig8.    Uair  is  amlaid 

4825  robái  -j  dealba  na  n-i/idsed  [fair  Eg.]  -j  na  n-oilen  7  na9  cathrach 
rochosai??,  -7  dealb  an  muntuirc  no  an  minituir10  ramarb  i  n-inis  668 
Creid  arna  rindad  a  slesaib  an  sceith  chuancfci  chobradaig  rabai 
air,  cor-bá11   buaidred  da  bidbadaib  antan  conciwgead   cath12 
sillead  for  an  sciath  n-ilbrec  n-examcw'Z13  sin;  -j  tangadar  rompo 

4830  fan  samla  sin  dochum  na  Teibi  can  anad. 

Imthifsa  na  Tiabanda  risi  sin14,  rugad  leo  Airgia,  higen 
Ad?-aist,  1  Antigoine,  mgen  Eidip,  tar  mur  an  baili  amach 
da  marhad.  Et  antan  rot/Vriallad  an  gni??i  si??,  is  and  dosiacht 
Flegeiiis,  gilla15  Teiss,  da  n-indsaigid;  -j  is  e  [in  gille  Eg.]  sin  681 

4835  dothoirmisc  na  mna  do  marbac?,  7  ni  cet  sida  doshir16  acht  is 
cath  rofhogair  -j:  "Ag  sin17,"  ar  se,  "Teis  mac  Eigh  cona 
morsocAraidi." 

0  'dchualaia7  immorro  Creón  an  seel  sin,  is  ed  doraid:  "  Ba  689 
lór  am  do  Gregaib  ar-marbsamair-ne  chena  dib;  -\  gid  ed  tised 

484oanoisi18,   fagebtha  an  ceina  do  denam19   riu."    Et  ni   thairnig 
dosimi  sin  do  rada  in  uair20  adchonrfairc  na  claicthigi21  ciach 
*j  na   neoill  coilli  comdluithi  os   na  sluagaib  tencitalchairda22 
robadar    arsen    re    Teis.     Greisis23    Créon,   -j    ti/idesnaigis    na  694 
Tiabanda  do  chur  chatha  re  Teis  mac  Eig.    Ba  haidleasc24  amh 

4845  ré  Tiabcmdcw'/j  sin,  uair  fa  leclarthi  a  lama,  -j  ba  tollta25  a  taib, 
-j  fa  creac/iiacha  a  cnis,  -[  ba  mi??aigthi  niiir  a  cat/wach  umpu;  7 
gid  ead  roeirgedar  ré  gresaciit  a  rig,  -j  rothrélmaigsed26  a  n-armu 
co  hathlam. 

1  Eg.  slighedh         2  Eg.  londrech  3  Eg.  a  fhogur  4  Eg.  re  grithgair 

5  Eg.  n-urnoehta  6  Eg.  suaichnid  amh  7  Eg.  rogastai  8  Eg.  Eig  mic 
Neptuin  9  E.  repeats:  7  na  10  Eg.  clelbh  na  minadure  X1  E.  chobragaid... 
Eg.  cuma  12  E.  cbach  Eg.  concingdis  cath  13  Eg.  n-hecsamail  14  Eg.  ri  sin 
15  Eg.  .i.  gilla  16  Eg.  rosirostar         17  Eg.  Ag  sin  cugaibh         18  Eg.  gidh 

edh  tisait  anosa  19  Eg.  do  genum  20  Eg.  dosum  acht  sin  do  radh  intan 

21  Eg.  claictighi  22  Eg.  caille  eomdluithe...ten«a  talchara  23  Eg.  greissis 
24  Eg.  hadhlesc  25  Eg.  ledarthai  a  lamai  7  ba  tollai  26  Eg.  rothrel- 

maigsitar 

312 


THE  THEBAID 

went  were  bright  with  the  sheen  of  the  brilliant  flashing  arms 
that  were  above  them,  and  vast  was  the  great  sound  of  them  in 
the  air  above  them,  owing  to  the  clangour  of  their  various  naked 
arms  striking  against  one  another.  And  they  had  great  emulation 
in  striving  for  first  place  to  arrive  at  Thebes  in  order  to  sack  it. 
Distinguished  was  the  very  great,  fine,  very  beautiful  king  around 
whom  that  army  was,  to  wit,  Theseus,  son  of  Aegeus.  For  thus 
was  he  with  the  forms  of  the  islands  upon  him,  and  of  the  isles, 
and  the  cities  he  had  won ;  and  the  form  of  the  necklace  or  of  the 
Minotaur  which  he  had  killed  in  the  island  of  Crete  graved  on 
the  sides  of  the  fine  bossy  shield  that  was  upon  him,  so  that  it 
was  confusion  to  his  enemies  when  he  marched  to  battle  to  look 
upon  that  much-chequered  varied  shield.  And  they  advanced  in 
that  manner  unto  Thebes  without  stay. 

As  to  the  Thebans  on  the  other  hand,  there  were  brought 
with  them  Argia,  daughter  of  Adrastus,  and  Antigone  daughter 
of  Oedipus,  out  over  the  town  wall  to  be  slain.  And  when  that 
deed  was  in  progress,  then  Phegeus,  Theseus'  lad,  arrived  among 
them.  And  it  was  that  lad  that  prevented  the  women  from 
being  slain.  And  it  was  not  a  concession  of  peace  that  he  asked, 
but  war  that  he  proclaimed.  "  There,"  said  he,  "  is  Theseus,  son 
of  Aegeus,  with  his  great  army." 

Now  when  Creon  heard  that  tale,  this  is  what  he  said : 
"Enough  of  Greeks,  indeed,  have  we  slain  in  those  of  them 
whom  we  have  slain  already.  And  nevertheless,  should  he  come 
now,  ho- wouM  get- th<Tsame  done -to  thorn."  And  he  had  not 
finished  saying  that,  when  he  saw  the  towers  of  mist  and 
the  very  dense  forest  clouds,  above  the  keen  and  resolute  hosts 
which  were  along  with  Theseus.  Creon  urged  and  hastened  the 
Thebans  to  give  battle  to  Theseus,  son  of  Aegeus.  The  Thebans, 
indeed,  were  very  loath  to  do  that,  for  their  hands  were  mangled, 
their  sides  pierced,  and  their  skin  was  wounded ;  and  the  wall 
of  their  city  round  about  them  was  dwindled  away ;  and  yet 
they  arose  at  the  instance  of  their  king,  and  actively  prepared 
their  arms. 

313 


E.  54a  38  T0GA1L  NA  TEBE  Eg.  251b  28 

Is   anifein   ivamorro    rolinsad    sluaig   athlama   echtacha   na  XIeT " 

4850  hAthai?;e  re  tosach  an  lai  mag  na  Teibi  tondglaisi  'na  tim- 
cheall1,  -j  ba  farrach  daib  ré  fulang  an  brentatu2  buaidirthi 
roeirig  dona  hapaigib3  'can  athgluasoc/ti  fo  [a  Eg.]  cosaib4  isin 
muig.  Et  raidis5  Teis  aga  faicsi/16:  "  Ni  maith,"  ar  se,  "an 
anoir  dorad  Creon  dona  corpaib-si,  7  ni  huasal  dobai  riu  can  a 

4855  cu[i]rp  do  loscad  no  d'  adlucad,  -j  ni  coimdi7  dui/idi  cath  do 
chur  an  bail  atad  so,  -j  tigid  romaib  ar  inad8  reid  roglaw  na 
fuileí  apaigi,  co  laieam  gléo9  and  7  na  Tiabanda." 

Is  andsin  coiminrfsaigid  na  catha  ceac/iiarda  dochum  aroile. 
Ti/icaid10  na  Tiabanda  co  tái  toirrsech  an  tres.    Indsaigid  (col.  /3) 

4860  im?norro  na  hAaithin/isda11  co  tend  toraaithmech12  an  tres.    Et 
togbais  andsi;?  Theis,  mac  Eig,  an  sleg  Maratonda13  raibái  'na  730 
laim,  coma   samalta  ré    foscad  íidbaidi14  firairdi  anellcAroda15 
comdorcha  craind  na  sleigi  sin,  7  coma  samaltha  re  rind  roglan 
ruithnigthech  soillsi  s\e[ndand  na  s-  Eg.]-leigi  sin,  consoillsiugad 

4865  an  mag  ara  rabador  na  sluaig16.    Et  o  'dchoneZcadar  na  Tiabanda 
an  tómaithem  sin,  nir-fhulaiwg  doib  anad  ris,  acht  [roimpotar  a 
mergedha   maithsroill    -j    Eg.]   romebaid   rse/i    romadma17   dib 
dochum  a  cathrach.    Nir  miad  am  le  Téis  lenmain  an  \ochta  sin,  736 
uair  dochind  can  fer18  ti/nteitheadach  do  marbad,  7  robadar 

487odaesc«rsluag  athlam  Athai?ie19  ar  chena  aga  n-oirrlech20.    Anais  738 
amh  Oleniws  do  Thiabandaib  7  Tamern.s21  trenfer  ag  eisimal  tar 
eis   a   mhunntire.    Dibraigis   Teiss   co   hinrfilldireach  ia[t]  co 
torchradar  leis.    Is  anctein  do[no]  roansad  tri  mic  Ailisis22  do 
Tiabandaib  re  munntir  Teis  .i.  Piliiws  -j  Elops  -j  Iapix,  -j  fersad  745 

4875  comlan^  riu,  -j  fegais23  Teis  an  treas  [s]in,  7  diubraigis  can  toirisim 
can  toirmisc  iad,  coma  tn'ur  trethollzi  arna  tuitim  da  eis.  Tr^'allais 
Emon  echtach  mac  Creón  Teis  d'  i?;dsaigid  co  hairm  a  roibi,  7 
bertnaigís  Téis  ant  sleig  n-agmotV25  n-?irbadaig,  -j  dobret  i/?-char26 

1  Eg.  ina  timcheld  2  Eg.  brentusa  3  Eg.  habadhaibh  4  Eg.  fo  a 

cossaibh      6  E.  raigis     6  Eg.  faicsin  sin      '  E.  coimgi  Eg.  ata  riu  can  a  ligen 
a  loiscthe  na  a  n-adbnuccul  -  ni  coimdigh  8  Eg.  in  fail  atait  so  7  ergidh 

duinn  a  n-inadh  9  Eg.  nach  fuilei  abaigbi  eo  ferum  gleo  10  Eg.  tincait 

11  Eg.  bAitbinista         12  Eg.  toitbmaithmech  13  Eg.  in  tsleph  marathonda 

14  E.  £TOAlb«M51        15  Eg.  innell  crodha        13  Eg.  sluaig  sin        17  Eg.  acbt 
roimpotar  a  mergedba  maitbsroill  7  romebaid  raen  mad?«a  18  Eg.  each  fer 

19  Eg.  Aithiniste  2n  Eg.  'can  oirlech  21  Eg.  Tamera  22  Eg.  Ailsis 

23  Eg.  feithis       24  E.  Cf  ectolt        25  Eg.  n-agmhair        2<s  Eg.  7  tuc  urchar 

3U 


THE  THEBAID 

Then  indeed  before  daybreak  the  active  puissant  hosts  of 
Athens  filled  the  plain  of  green-surfaced  Thebes  round  about. 
And  an  oppression  for  them  to  endure  was  the  troublesome 
stench  that  arose  from  the  entrails  on  being  disturbed  under 
their  feet  in  the  plain.  And  seeing  them  Theseus  said :  "  Not 
good,"  said  he,  "  is  the  honour  Creon  has  given  to  these  bodies, 
and  it  was  not  noble  on  their  part  not  to  give  leave  to  bury  or 
burn  their  bodies.  And  it  is  not  safe  for  us  to  give  battle 
where  these  are.  And  do  ye  come  away  to  a  level  very  bright 
place,  where  no  entrails  are,  that  we  and  the  Thebans  may  join 
battle  there." 

Then  both  battalions  advanced  towards  one  another.  The 
Thebans  silently  and  sadly  view  the  fight.  But  the  Athenians 
advance  keenly  and  threateningly  to  the  fight.  And  there 
Theseus,  son  of  Aegeus,  raised  the  Marathonian  spear  that  was 
in  his  hand,  so  that  the  shafts  of  that  spear  were  like  the  shadow 
of  a  very  high  cruel-tooled  very  dark  wood,  and  the  blades  of 
that  spear  were  like  a  very  bright  radiant  point  of  light,  so  that 
the  plain  on  which  the  hosts  stood  was  lighted  up.  And  when 
the  Thebans  saw  that  menace,  it  was  intolerable  for  them  to 
stand  still  against  it,  but  they  turned  their  fine  velvet  standards, 
and  the  rush  of  a  great  rout  of  them  broke  towards  their  city. 
Theseus,  indeed,  did  not  deign  to  follow  that  crowd ;  for  he  had 
resolved  not  to  slay  a  fear-stricken  fugitive,  and  all  the  active 
common  people  of  Athens  were  slaughtering  them.  Olenius, 
indeed,  a  Theban,  remained  ;  and  Lamyrus,  a  champion  in  valour 
behind  his  people.  Theseus  shot  straight-tooled  at  them,and  they 
fell  by  him.  There  also  against  the  people  of  Theseus  remained 
the  three  sons  of  Alceta,  to  wit,  Phyleus,  Helops,  and  Iapyx,  and 
inflicted  a  combat  on  them ;  and  Theseus  saw  that  affray,  and 
he  shot  them  without  stay  or  hindrance,  so  that  they  were  a 
pierced  trio  fallen  behind  him.  Puissant  Haemon,  son  of  Creon, 
attempted  to  approach  where  Theseus  was,  and  Theseus  bran- 
dished his  warlike  baleful  spear,  and  made  a  cast  of  it  at  Haemon; 
315 


E.  54b  1 8  TOG  AIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  252a  29 


d'  Emon  [di1  Eg.],  co  torchair  can  anmaiw  an  tres2  gaisgedach 


Theb. 

XII 

4880  na  Tiabanda.    Gair??iis  immorro,  7  g?-enaaigis  Teis  Creon,  ri  na  752 
Teibi,  o  guth  mor  do  chomrag  ris  ar  toitira  a  mi'c  da  lai/n3. 
Tincais  Creon  croda  sin,  7  impais  a  munnter  leis.    Athchuris 
Teis  a  munnidr  bodei/i  uadh4,  -j  anais  a  senwr  ar  cind5  Creon 
cona  munntir.    Et  raidis  Creon  ris:  "A  gilla,"  ar  se,  "ca  dasacht 

4885  7  ca  drochciall  dobei'r  ort  mo  grendugwd-sa  do  chomlo?icZ  rit6  ? 
-j  an  faicend  tu  Tit,  mac  yE?iiasa,  mac  rig  na  Cailidoine,  ar  toitim 
liwd,  7  Iipimedon  gruadsolus  7  Capaneiws  -j  Partanopezws  7  maithi7  764 
Greg  archena  do  thoitira  lino78  ?"   Et  o  raraid-siwm9  sin,  tug  urchar 
dochum  Theis  cor-ben  a  mbili  n-uacAtarach10  a  sceith.    Tibis 

4890  Teis  gen  gairi  imi  sin11,  -j  raidis :  "A  anraano'a  na  nGreg,"  ar  se, 
"fhoslaigiddoirrsiadfhuathmara12  ifirn,co  cuirer  Creón  chugaib 
ind13."  Etdoteilgansleig  mor14Marat/tondabái  'nalaimdo  Creon15, 
cur-ben  a  n-eislina7  a  chuirp  tre  berna  a  luirigi,  co  rug  mili 
arriwdi  trena  chnes.    Tuitid16  Crecm  do  goin17  an  g&isgedaig  sin 

4895  can  atharrach18  can  atheirgi  do,  7  raidis19  Teis :  "  An  tibri  anois,"  779 
ar  se,  "  cedugwd  cowiloiscthi  ar  chorpit  na  nG?v?c  -j  in&d  adnacail 
doib  ?  Et  ber-si  let  sin,"  ar  se,  "ad  chintaib  fein,  7  rod-aidlecthar 
cen  cur-dligar  a  denam20."    Is  ano'si??,  tra  rotimsaigzd  na  tuatha 
Tiabano'a  7  oirec/ita  na  hAithme  'ma  Teis,  mac  Eig,  mic  Neptwm. 

4900  [Et  rocreidsit  do  uili21  7  Eg.]  rachi«r/sed  a  chumthanws  anrfsin, 

-j  rashnai??ised  sith  suthain22  ate?-ru,  -j   rugsad  leó  Teiss  isin 

cat/iraig,  7  roeirgedar  mna  7  macca3Í??i  an  baili  d'  anorugud23  7 

d'  admolad  an  gilla  sin,  7  robai  isin  Teib  re  hed  na  haidchi  sin.    785 

[Cid  tra  acht  ba  hairdri  ar  gasraid  Grec  Teis  dar  eis  Adraist  o 

4905  Traicia  a  tuaigh  co  muir  Repalia  bhu  dhes  7  o  cind  sleibe  aird 
Olimp  1  o  sruth  roglan  Re24  (?)  anoir  co  rind  mara  hAidhriadh 
siar.  Na  mna  immorro  rogahad  la  Creon  rofhosclad25  dibh  la  Teis 
.i.  Airgia  ingen  Adraist  7  Ismene  ingen  Eidhiph.   Roan  immorro 

1  Eg.  d'  Emon  di  2  Eg.  .i.  an  tres  3  Eg.  mic  lais  .i.  Emon  echtach 

4  Eg.  uadha  uodein  s  Eg.  ar  cend  6  Eg.  um  eomlond  duit  7  Eg.  P.  mac 
Meliager  7  maithi  8  Eg.  ar  chena  7  laechraidh  Lema  uili  lind  9  E.  raraig- 
s'uim  Eg.  o  raid-  10  Eg.  a  mbile  uachtarach  J1  Eg.  uime  isin  12  Eg.  oslaicidh 
doirrsi  adhfhuatbmaire  l3  Eg.  cugaibb  and  14  Eg.  int  sleigh  moir 

15  Eg.  dochum  Creoin  16  Eg.  Toitis  17  Eg.  guin  18  Eg.  can  aitherrach 
19  E.  raigis  20  Eg.  at  cintibh  fen  7  ros-baidhlechtair  gen  gur-dleghar  a 

denum  do  21  Eg.  N.  7  rocreidsit  do  uili  22  Eg.  7  rosnaidmsit  sigh  suthain 
23  Eg.  d'  onorugud        2i  Eg.  Ee-         25  Eg.  rohfosclad 

316 


THE  THEBAID 

and  he,  being  one  of  three  Theban  heroes,  fell  lifeless.  Theseus 
also  called  and  challenged  Creon,  king  of  Thebes,  with  a  loud 
voice  to  a  combat  with  him  after  his  son  had  fallen  by  his  hand. 
Cruel  Creon  looked  at  him,  and  his  people  turned  with  him. 
Theseus  sent  his  own  people  away  back,  and  he  remained  alone, 
awaiting  Creon  and  his  people.  And  Creon  said  to  him  :  "  Lad," 
said  he,  "  what  madness  and  what  folly  impels  thee  to  challenge 
me  to  a  combat  with  thee  ?  And  dost  thou  see  Tydeus,  son  of 
Oeneus,  son  of  the  king  of  Calydon,  fallen  by  us,  and  bright- 
cheeked  Hippomedon,  and  Capaneus,  and  Parthenopaeus,  and  all 
the  Greek  nobles  fallen  by  us  ? "  And  when  he  had  said  that, 
he  delivered  a  cast  at  Theseus,  and  struck  the  upper  rim  of  his 
shield.  Theseus  laughed  contemptuous  laughter  at  that,  and 
said  :  "  Souls  of  the  Greeks,"  said  he,  "  open  the  awful  doors  of 
hell,  that  Creon  may  be  added  to  you  there."  And  he  hurled  at 
Creon  the  great  Marathonian  spear  that  was  in  his  hand,  so  that 
it  struck  a  weak  spot  of  his  body  through  a  gap  of  his  armour, 
and  drove  a  thousand  points  through  his  skin.  'Creon  falls  by 
the  wound  of  that  hero  with  no  change  or  rising  again  for  him. 
And  Theseus  said :  "  Wilt  thou  now,"  said  he,  "  give  permission 
to  cremate  the  bodies  of  the  Greeks,  and  a  place  of  burial  for 
them  ?  And  take  that  with  thee  for  thine  own  sins  ;  and  thou 
shalt  be  buried,  though  it  be  no  duty  so  to  do."  Then  indeed 
the  Theban  tribes  and  the  assemblies  of  Athens  gathered  around 
Theseus,  son  of  Aegeus,  son  of  Neptune.  And  they  all  trusted 
him,  and  resolved  on  comradeship  with  him  there ;  and  they 
knotted  an  eternal  peace  between  them  ;  and  they  brought 
Theseus  with  them  into  the  city,  and  the  women  and  children 
of  the  town  rose  up  to  honour  and  laud  that  lad,  and  he 
remained  in  Thebes  for  the  duration  of  that  night. 

Yea,  Theseus  was  high-king  over  the  Greek  soldiery  after 
Adrastus  from  Thrace  in  the  North  to  the  Repalia  sea  in  the 
South  and  from  the  lofty  top  of  mount  Olympus  and  from  the 
very  pure  river  R...  in  the  East  to  the  brink  of  the  Adriatic  in 
the  West.  Moreover  the  women  that  had  been  taken  captive 
by  Creon  were  liberated  by  Theseus,  to  wit,  Argia,  daughter  of 
Adrastus,  and  Ismene,  daughter  of  Oedipus.    The  daughter  of 

317 


E.  54b  42  TOGAIL  NA  TEBE  Eg.  252b  35 

ingen  Eidhip  isin  Teibh.  Et  docuaidh  Airgia  co  Larisa.  Et  ua  ^n 
4910  truagh  scith  imsnimach  a  scaradh  na  mban  sin  ri  aroili.  Et  rouai 
Airgia  andsin  co  cumtach,  toirsech,  dercaintech.  Et  ni  airmit 
scribhenna  feis  re  fer  di  dar  eis  a  cetmuintire  co  nd-erbailt  fo 
deoidh  do  chumaid  Poliniceis.  Et  rogabh  a  mac  .i.  Tesanndrus 
mac  Poliniceis  righi  na  Tiabanda,  conadh  e  in  sechtmad  righ 
4915  XX  rouai  ag  togail  Troe  maraon  re  Grecaibh  in  Tesandorus  sin. 
Eg.  252b  27— 253a  8.] 

Imtusa  immorro  an  bantracAia  Qregda  risa  tamig  Teis  an  turns 
sin,-  raadlaicsed1  co  hanorach  -j  co  huasal  curpu  a  carad  -j  a 
csemceilead,  7  dochuadar  da  trebaib  *j  da  tigib  asa  haithli  co 
cseinteach  easbadach.  Airim  thrá  ar-marbad  amfein  do  rigaib  -j 
4920  da  dsescMrsluagh  diairmigthi.  Ni  chuimnigid  na  sgribenda  -j 
scela  discrirthecha  deiligthi2  ar-fagbad  beó  and  Ni  sud  con- 
sirther3.  Conad  ni  da  ngnimaib  -j  da  scelaib  -j  da  n-imteacAiaib4 
conuigi  sin.    Sella.    Sella.    Sella. 

FlNIT5 

1  Eg.  roadhnacsit  2  Eg.  do  daesgursluagbaibh  nocha  cuimnighit 

scribenna  iter  iad  7  scela  disgire  deiligthech  3  Eg.  ni  hand  so  consirthar 

*  Eg.  om.  3  Eg.  Finit.  Amen 


318 


THE  THEBAID 

Oedipus  stayed  in  Thebes.  And  Argia  went  to  Larissa.  And  sad, 
weary,  and  anxious  was  the  parting  of  those  women  from  one 
another.  And  Argia  dwelt  there  sorrowfully,  sadly,  despairingly. 
And  no  records  recount  her  marriage  with  any  man  after  her 
husband,  so  that  she  died  at  last  of  grief  for  Polynices.  And 
her  son,  to  wit,  Thersander,  son  of  Polynices,  assumed  the 
sovereignty  of  the  Thebans,  so  that  that  Thersander  was  one  of 
the  twenty-seven  kings  that  were  present  along  with  the  Greeks 
at  the  siege  of  Troy. 

But  as  to  the  Greek  women  with  whom  Theseus  had  come  on 
that  journey,  they  buried  honourably  and  nobly  the  bodies  of 
their  friends  and  dear  spouses,  and  they  went  to  their  dwellings 
and  houses  after  that,  wailing  and  forlorn.  Now  the  number  that 
was  slain  there  of  kings  and  common  people  is  past  reckoning. 
The  writings  and  wild  and  varied  tales  do  not  commemorate 
those  that  were  left  alive  there.  Here  it  is  not  attempted.  So 
that  it  is  something  of  their  deeds,  tales  and  adventures  thus 
far.    Selah!  Selah  !  Selah  ! 


319 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 

ABBREVIATIONS  (see  also  p.  xx) 


a. id. 

=  accusative  pi. 

a.s. 

sing. 

d.p. 

=  dative  pi. 

d.s. 

=      „       sing. 

g-P- 

=  genitive  pi. 

g.s. 

=       ,,         sing. 

n.p. 

=  nominative  pi. 

n.s. 

=           , ,          sing. 

v.p. 

=  vocative  pi. 

v.s. 

=       ,,         sing. 

pres. 

=  present 

eonsuet. 

pr.  =  consuetudinal  pres. 

fut. 

=  future 

ipv. 

=  imperative 

ipf. 

=  imperfect 

pret. 

=  preterite 

pf. 

=  perfect 

P- 

=  passive 

p.p. 

=  pf.  passive 

p. p.p. 

=  pf.  participle  passive 

a  0.  Particle  of  address:  with  voc. 
A  athair  inmain  1349 ;  a  ingen  1358 ; 
a  dei  in  catha  3642 ;  a  uasail  air- 
midnig  1250,  2923;  a  gille  3753;  a 
gilla  4884;  maitb  a  ingen  4560;  a 
macu  4565;  a  ri,  a  Ipomedoin  3682. 

a  his.  (1)  Aspirates:  a  chlaidim  1034; 
a  f holt  928 ;  but  not  mediae :  a  dul- 
san  beó  1007. 

(2)  Does  not  suffer  elision:  eter  a 
ucht  7  a  imlinn  927;  A.  a  aonar  801; 
a  faidhi  7  a  fisidi  1186;  da  athair 
862;  ua  doilig  a  fhis  7  a  haisnes 
2736;  d'  indsaigi  a  flaithiusa  a  ma- 
thar  1420. 

(3)  Often  used  proleptically :  na 
bid  a  ecla  1708,  2956 ;  aca  rada  1867 ; 
a  aided  inn  fhir  sin  2964;  a  coim- 
lin  sin  1457;  robai  a  fhis  aicci  1500; 
is  lor  a  fhat  1916 ;  a  met  da  chait- 
head  1644;    ara  fhat  leis  robai  gan 


nech  1654;  ana  agaid  shlebe ...ina 
chend  1669 ;  aca  crem  a  cridi  1671 ; 
aga  indisin  4070 ;  7  do  na  tainic  d' 
ass  a  denam  he  was  not  old  enough  to 
do  it  2687;  ni  bud  maith  a  trial! 
amlaid  sin  its  attempt  like  that  were 
of  no  a  rail  2729 ;  o  nar-sail-si  a  roch- 
tain  lé  a  hsenar  fuailfed  feirgi  na  deisi 
sin  do  thabairt  os  aird  4316. 
a  her.  (1)  Does  not  cause  aspiration: 
a  los  a  fir  1342;  aca  faicsinn  1766; 
a  beith-si  2752. 

(2)  Projects  h-  before  vowels:  a  n- 
ingnais  a  hiaraind  927;  ger-b  ole  a 
hindell  7  a  hetugud  1766;  a  hainm 
1862;  bidit  mo  honoir  idbarta  2593. 

(3)  Causes  gemination  :  'na  llaim 
1764;  fer  grada  a  hathar  7  a  ssean- 
athar  2651 ;  cor-inta  grian  fair  a 
rrith  1573. 

-a-.   As  an  infixed  pronoun.    V.  ra-. 


320 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


a  (before  the  article  and  pronouns,  as) 
from,  out  of.  Prep,  with  dat.  A  cath- 
ugud  2586;  a  leitb  da  druim  940; 
a  sin  1022 ;  a  faistine  1228 ;  a  com- 
rath  1340 ;  a  cathraig  4305. 

Before  vowels,  h- :  a  hoireacht  880; 
a  hinadaib  3750. 

With  art. :  asa  bail  robui  3499 ; 
asin  chath  3455 ;  as  an  bunad  3638. 
With  pronouns :  1  s.  eisium-sa 
4396;  3  s.  nl  taineic  as  800,  1155; 
3  s.  f.  ua  hesti  1447;  ant  slegh  'na 
sesam  eisti  3552 ;  roben  ant  sleg  aisti 
3553 ;  3  p.  eistib  465,  4636. 

With  poss.  pronouns:  1  s.  as  mo 
rigi  4500 ;  2  s.  as  do  los-so  1055 ;  3  s. 
asa  charpud  1067 ;  asa  sligthib  277 ; 
asa  thir  7  asa  347;  asa  sciath  3415; 
asa  fiaclaib  871;  asa  hichtur  4106; 
asa  haithli  971;  asa  trillsib  1035, 
3021 ;  asa  airi  1257 ;  asa  sin  2585 ; 
1  p.  as  ar  lamaib  1990 ;  as  ar  suilib 
2048;  3  p.  asa  n-ait  7  asa  n-inad 
2069 ;  as  gach  aird  1436. 

a  for  do,  q.v. 

a  bt/.  A  dei  423;  a  dei  (sic  corr.)  ritsu 
1353.    V.  ar(2). 

a  n-  their.  (1)  Before  tenues,  nasals,  and 
s  the  nasal  is  assimilated :  a  comrath 
4728;  a  mathair  2172;  a  fearanda 
684;  a  suan  1886;  is  leibh  a  coscur 
7  a  comaidhem  3880;  a  n-agaid  a 
toili  1083. 

(2)  Before  mediae  eclipsis  takes 
place:  da  mbuaidred-sum  1876;  a 
scaradh  na  mban  sin  4910. 

(3)  The  n-  remains  before  vowels: 
a  n-airm  949. 

(4)  Proleptic  use:  ac  admolad  a 
n-engnuma  a  n-aithreeh  2991;  a  n- 
imochur  na  miled  1756;  a  n-airium 
uili  gach  ar-marbad  1894;  a  fir  da 
marbad  1924 ;  fa  tren  a  tres  an  lochta 
sin  4086. 

a  n-  (-n-)  when.   An  taugadar  4618. 

a  11-  what  serves  only  as  the  subject  or 
the  object  of  a  verb.  Ar-conighdis 
3863 ;  an  ba  hinmarbtha  3967 ;  a  n- 
acuala  1702 ;  is  fir  a  n-abraid  2924 ; 
a  n-ebairt-sium  ria  3498;  7  a  nde- 
bairt  in  ingen  4786 ;  a  fuil  do  rigaib 
Grec  1683;  da  fuil  beo  dib  1684;  da 
roibi  accu  2749 ;  ba  lór  do  Gregaib 
ar-marbsamair-ne  4839;  dofsetsad  a 
dorchair  adraind  4343 ;  a  mbreth  leis 
do  chrud  3652 ;  sligi  a  tanic  189 ;  is 
olc  a  ndenaid  2618 ;  is  lór  ar-lenais  do 
T.  3794;  coimlin  ar-marb  do  sluagaib 
3972;  airim  thrá  ar-marbad  andsin 
do  rigaib  4919;  ni  chuimnigid  na 
sgribenda  ar-fagbad  beó  4921. 


321 


in.ina:  in  raraid  Iason  2010;  nim- 
tualaing-sea  tra  aireom  ina  tanic 
sund  2701 ;  r.  adorchair. 

In  the  oblique  cases,  the  rel.  is 
expressed  by  prepositions  as  in  Old 
Irish.  Cse  da  danic  chuici  hit  sleg 
3297 ;  co  hairm  i  rraibi  3319 ;  na  ba 
tairisi  din  na  daingen  da  roibi  2740 ; 
an  bantrachta  risa  tainig  Teis  an 
turus  sin  4917 ;  a  racuired  a  harmu 
3696 ;  na  faichthi  ara  rabadar  2941, 
4865;  i  tangatar  a  hindsib  1521 ;  ar- 
silastair  1639 ;  asa  taugadar  1559 ; 
cid  'ma  n-iarthai  ormsa  1700;  i 
rroibe  1806 ;  a  rabadar  2933 ;  i  raba- 
dar 2966 ;  asa  ticed  1996 ;  da  ra-der- 
maitius  tu  when  I  forgot  thee  2108;  da 
romarb  in  nathair  2263  ;  do  na  tabair 
urchur  d'  imroll  2696 ;  a  dei  da  ta- 
braim-si  me  fein  4186 ;  os  atai  a  cind 
4720. 

The  modern  rel.  occurs:  isin  ait 
a  raibi  ann  3656. 

Bel.  nom.  and  ace.  is  expressed  by 
(1)  the  rel.  form  of  the  verb;  is :  nach 
e  in  dei  ita  id  richt  2851;  ata:  in 
cloch  bis  ar  lassad  2780,  uiss  Eg.;, 
fil :  ina  an  corp  fuil  agaib  4027 ;  na 
hairrn-si  fuilet  ini  laim  3852 ;  cenela 
anmidead  erchoideacha  marbas  ce- 
thra  2775;  amal  timchellas  3092; 
ni  misi  tendas  2709 ;  conid  me  fein 
tuitfes  1251;  is  i  chomoras .  1736 ; 
is  ed  isbert  fris  4779. 

(2)  Parataxis:  is  iad  dochuaidh 
3874;  ni  d'  argain  ifirn  tanac-sa 
2952;  ni  m'  adnocol  sirim  oraib  3310; 
tré  lár  in  armuig  tucadar  4056;  ni 
rich  na  ferg  dobeir  orum  2625;  na 
briathra  bocasaich  raidi  2851;  an 
cetla  tangadar  Greic  4342;  is  tren 
gresis  3756,  3981. 

(3)  The  sense  of  the  presence  or 
the  loss  of  a  rel.  particle  has  caused 
aspiration  in  initial  consonants:  in 
rigan  thanic  andsin  2749,  4305;  in 
chonair  thanic  3371 ;  each  coscur  oid- 
chi  bheris  each  3970;  an  trath  chuir- 
eas  1276;  is  aire  sin  thucus  di  359. 

The  original  rel.  particle  no-  (v.  Str. 
Glosses  43)  was  extended  to  3rd  person 
sing,  and  1st  and  3rd  pi. :  na  faga  na- 
bidis  'na  saitheadaib  990;  and  was  re- 
placed by  other  preverbs:  do-,  ro-,  con-, 
used  also  with  ipf . :  fa  ferr  dothuit 
andsin  4083 ;  ni  f  uair  nech  rolamad 
buain  ris  3635 ;  na  tigri  robitis  ac 
imarchur  charpaid  B.  2770;  sleagh 
consnigtis  7  conreithdis  ria  srotha 
fola  3054,  3066;  a  crich  na  a  cath- 
raig dariacht  3058;  cairgi  a  taiblib 

21 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


contaitllitis  which  gleamed  3088;  co 
rop  don  leith  araill  dotharraing  M. 
3100;  each  conair  concingead  4505; 
antan  consilldis  3641;  it  e  adam 
derbrathar  fein  dobeth  in  cumand  ut 
2682;  do  gae  robui  'na  laim  2818; 
7  mill  lanmora  luaidi  rodibraicdis 
2700;  gach  celniaine  condtrachta 
dachuiread  daib  2721 ;  isin  tres  tren- 
adbul  sin  rochuirsetar  2825;  ni 
fhidiraninaithemn-anacailroshirfed 
no  an  comland  dochuirfed  riu  4013; 
is  andsin  dochonncadar  na  Greig 
4042 ;  dona  cairrgib  coniora  rodi- 
braigead  an  trenfer  sin  4208;  ona 
slegaib  roteilgead  4210;  is  cuma  ro- 
marbad  iad  4214;  na  curaid  con- 
cingdis  4205 ;  na  f rasa  firmora  con- 
fertais  na  fir  fair  4236;  na  balaid 
fiarledarthe  confer  do  brathair  4705 ; 
da  tharb  concindet  oencenel  1617. 

After  conjunctions  projecting  the 
relative  nasal  the  preverbs  either 
remain  unchanged  or  do-,  ro-  become 
da-,  ra-:  {a)  arnal  dotoglaidis  4057; 
intan  conrangus  4710;  (b)  immar 
dabadhar-som 3235;  odachuaid  3499; 
o  rasiacht  ar  larmedon  in  longphuirt 
2749.    V.  under  do-  and  ro-. 

aba  f .  river.  Uachtur  na  haband  3534, 
6;  usci  na  habann  3619  ;  ri  heas  na 
haband  1795;  re  hesaibh  na  hobond 
3584 ;  ar  larmedon  na  haband  1805, 
3522;  i  nn-athaib  7  i  nn-indberaib 
na  haband  3512;  co  rothoit  isin  n- 
abaind  3540 ;  a  n-abaind  3654. 

aball  a  placed).  I  nn-enfhecht  7  a  n- 
enaball  382,  a  n-enabholl  Eg. ;  in 
n-oenaball  423 ;  cf .  aball  ab  Eballano 
vel  ab  Abellano  oppido  Campaniae 
Cor.2  No.  94, 1272;  cf .  O'Mulc.  No.  4. 

aband  f.  river.  Coma  salach  hid  aband 
1801;  7  roeiridh  an  abhond  3582; 
rouatar  isin  abhonn  3593  ;  rofhacsact 
in  n-aband  1810;  rotimsaigh  srotha 
7  esa  7  aibhne  3615. 

abis,  aibis  f.  abyss,  ocean.  Oileana  na 
haibheisi  25. 

ac  so  here,  behold.  Ac  so,  a  ri  3682; 
ac  so  chucut  here  thou  hast  1655. 

acáine  wailing,  lamentation.  Ni  aiscim 
in  n-aicine  fuacraid  1359.  Accáine 
C.C. 

acáinim  /  wail,  lament.  Ni  hiat  a 
cnedha  fen  roacain  it  was  not  in  sobs 
for  himself  that  he  lamented  3837. 

acáintech  plaintive,  lamenting.  Co 
hanband  acaintech  4386. 

acaire  anchor.   Ba  hacaireda  3534.   C. 

acallam  f.  address.  Nir-ba  tualaing- 
sium  tra  a  n-acallaim  3241 ;  d'  acal- 


laim  2708 ;  d'  agallaim  4171,  2,  4339; 
ag  agallaim  4247 ;  rogob  for  acallaim 
3408. 

accarda  profit  2858.    C. 

accoras  m.  hunger  484. 

Accusative  like  dat. :  rofobair  a  n-irgail 
air  2886 ;  tarraid  cloich  2888 ;  rogob 
deilb  2898;  toirind  t'  fheirg  2951. 

Ace.  like  nom. :  adchondairc  ri 
sotal  int  echt  sin  2890;  no  co  facaidh 
ant  slegh  3551 ;  7  roben  ant  sleg 
aisti  3553;  robocbertaigh  int  sleg 
3671 ;  7  roleic  ant  sleg  sechai  3788 ; 
nir-fhulaing  int  edualang  529;  ind- 
saigid  int  armach  4687,  Eg. ;  in  ben 
tuc  int  uisci  2158;  rofobair  P.  de- 
baid  agmar  3165;  corben  int  sleg 
3188;  bertnaigis  Téis  ant  sleig  n- 
agmair  4878 ;  adchondairc-sium  ara 
tairisi  Ticl  3491 ;  romarbsad  fo  chet- 
oir  int  ara... 7  dias  aili  do  G.  2776; 
co  romarbar  anti  rom-gonaid  3797; 
7  robris  a  Brian  4503;  tuc  a  lam  3388; 
7  rogabh  delbh  Doreis  3791,  3;  tren- 
gal-sium  3271. 

Accusative  of  cognate  nouns :  risa 
tainig  Teis  an  turus  sin  4917,  2287; 
techt  in  turas  sin  1418;  rothoitsed 
andsin  comthoitim  re  3527 ;  na  herig 
in  turus  teigi  4173;  is  a  ngoid  do- 
chuaid  si  an  toisc  sin  4715,  2365; 
antan  concingead  cath  4828;  roling- 
astair  leim  967,  2074. 

acgairbe  f.  bitterness,  roughness.  Re 
hagairbi  314. 

acgarb,  acarb,  agarb  bitter.  Acgarb 
2352,  2524,  2160;  inna  haidchi 
acgairbi  267;  n.p.  acgarba  272;  co 
hacarb  2878;  co  hathlam  agarb h 
4054.    Wi. 

achad./u'M.  Coma  suaiti  achaidi  slebe 
Menail  1555. 

achmusán  m.  reproof,  reproach.  A. p. 
tuc  achmosana  imda  da  brathair 
2713.    Athchomsán  C.C. 

acht  but  922  ;  acht  chena  but  especially 
1468,  4259;  cid  tra  acht  nay,  indeed 
953;  acht  na,  provided  that... not; 
acht  na  rab  toidecht  a  n-agaid  a  toili 
1082. 

acht  mad  only,  save  only  1381,  1474, 
1491,  2283,  3350,  3884,  862,  1132, 
1172,  1771,  1768;  acht  mad  misi 
2106;  acht  mad  anindi  1842;  acht 
mad  suba  678;  duba  1351. 

acil,  aquil  f.  eagle.  N.s.  aquil  1237; 
7  ann  acil  1244;  a.s.  doihedar  in 
aquil  so  1240;  n.p.  secht  n-aquili 
1235.    Acaill,  P.O'C. 

acuraid  unlovely,  rough  1555  Eg. 
Acaraid  C.  p.  8. 


322 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


adaig  f.  night.    V.  aidcbe. 

adaltras  m.  adultery  10-54;  a  n-urd  a 
n-adaltrais  1053. 

adám  my  two.  Adam  chois  116;  adam 
derbrathair  2681.    Acall. 

adannaim,  adandaim  /  kindle,  enflame, 
entice.  Ipf.  subj.  co  n-adandad  582; 
pret.  3  s.  ra-adand  1840;  adbnais 
4682;  p.p.  rahadnad  4144;  rahadan- 
dait  4488,  411 ;  p. p. p.  adanta  404, 
136-5,  4273;  v.  n.  m.  adandud  173; 
ag  adandadh  1100;  adannad  1163; 
d'adandad  2599.    C. 

adannugud  m.  kindling,  inflaming  1-54. 

adar,  andar,  dar  le  thinks.  Adar  lim 
methinks  3312,  3384,  4675:  adar  lind 
3349;  adar  le  gach  mac  dil  145; 
anddar  les  1603  ;  dar  lind  1768. 

adarc  f.  horn.  Ei  haduath  a  adare  140-5. 

adba  f.  m.  habitation,  dwelling,  abode. 
Dentar  aidi  7  adba  4608,  374  ;  dentar 
aitt  7  adba  duit  4-591 ;  03  eind  in 
adbaid  sin  910,  Eg.  na  kadhba ;  can 
adbaid  n-adnocail  2921. 

ad-bán  pallid.  Airechta  adbana  16-56; 
tresna  haireehtaib  aduana  191,  ad- 
hubhanda  Eg. 

adbar  n.  reason,  cause.  Is  adhuar  onor- 
ach  dot  hainm  3679 ;  is  ed  ua  hadbur 
-513. 

adbath  he  died  169-5,  3101. 

adbul  huge,  vast.  Ger-b  adbul  3438 ; 
muc  adbul  451 ;  anindi  adbul  3341 ; 
ba  hadbal  3339;  aduath  adbol  16-51; 
adfuath  adbul  1880;  ára  aidhble 
3608, 4299;  idbarta  aidbli  mora  1370; 
na  scela  aidbli  sin  263-5 ;  isin  croic- 
end  in  tuirc  adbail  92-5 ;  as  a  noun : 
is  adbul  d'  ulc  1701 ;  cpd.  rnuir  ad- 
balmora  848;  ecla  adbulmor  1591; 
torand  bres  adbalmor  4741. 

ad-chim  I  see.  Pres.  1  s.  adchim  1130, 
16-59;  adchim  1230;  atcim  1676; 
atchim-sea  26-53;  adchiu-sa  1617, 
1660 ;  2  s.  adchi  124-5 ;  adchi-si  1219, 
1220;  i  fail  i  faichi  34-58;  in  faicci 
misi  co  toirsech  3719;  3  s.  an  fai- 
cend  tu  4886,  2655,  7 ;  naeh  faiceann 
tu  842;  2  p.  atchithi  1780;  pres. 
subj.  1  s.  co  facar  3708;  con  fhaiciur 
4637;  co  na  faiciur  2109;  ré  siu 
adcear  4397;  3  s.  co  faicea  4543; 
ipf.  indie.  3  s.  adchidh  902 ;  adchid 
1201,  1-544;  adcidh  3694;  dochid 
2413;  doscid  2415;  3  p.  roehidis- 
sium  2732 ;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  co  faicead- 
som  1204 ;  gu  nnaran-aiced  137 ;  3  p. 
conna f aictis 4686;  2 f ut.  3 s.  atchifead 
84;  pf.  1  s.  adchondarc  3232,  34-56; 
with  -us  of  pret.  added :  adehondarc- 
us    1317;     adchondarcas-sa    1898; 


nach  facca-sa  3234 ;  3  s.  adchondairc 
915;  atchondairc  1696;  o  'tchon- 
doirc-sium  3373;  0  'tchonnaic-sium 
3266,  3321 ;  na  facaidh  3-572 ;  noco 
facaid  315,  1090;  1  p.  0  'dchond- 
camar  1989,  91;  adchoncamar  2020, 
2;  ni  fhacamar  1807;  3  p.  adchon- 
cadarl762;  adchondcadarl906, 1939, 
4278,  3235,  3421;  o  'dconncadar 
1147 ;  o  'dcondcadar  4295 ;  o  na  fa- 
cadar  4047;  co  fhacadar  1054;  co 
facadar  3449;  pret.  gu  n-udcith  was 
seen  2162;  p.p.  adces  4142;  cona 
facus  4512 ;  v.  n.  f.  d'  fhaicsin  3702 ; 
t'  aiscin  4-539;  'ca  aiscin  3331;  d' 
fhaiscin  3695;  i  fhaicsin  1519;  ac 
faicsin  2175 ;  aga  faicsin  4853 ;  ac 
aicsin  2538;  iga  faigsin  4052;  'ca 
fhaigsin  4231 ;  'ca  faigsin  4271. 
ad-cluinim  (1)  I  hear,  (2)  feel,  perceive 
a  stench.  Pres.  1  s.  adcluinim  bren- 
tada  4677,  2924;  ar-atcluineam  1901; 
past  subj.  2  s.  cid  mo  choscar-sa 
'dchluintea-sa  4790;  3  p.  cluindis 
4748 ;  pf.  1  s.  0  'tchuala-sa  2053 ;  2  s. 
an  cualadais  4780;  3  s.  o  'dcuala 
3782 ;  o  docuala  3606 ;  0  'dchualaid 
4532,  45-56,  4262,  4318,  4838;  o 
chualaid  1202;  adchualaid  4150, 
4633,  4463;  o  cualaig-sium  3363; 
ged  chualaig  3359;  nach  cualaig  569; 
o  'tchualaich  1425,  3318,  1571;  o 
'tchualaig  1507,  1577,  2075;  1  p. 
atchualamar  1850 ;  adchualamar 
1944;  ni  chualamar-ni  2011;  2  p. 
atchualabar-si  657;  nach  cualabair 
1860;  3  p.  adchualadar  2939,  4633, 
4768,  657,  2049;  rochualadar  3340; 
dochualadar-san  4469 ;  o  'dchualadar 
1291;  co  cualadar  2147;  p.p.  adclos 
1613,  3586;  atclos  536,  2113;  ad- 
chlos  2190;  o  'dclos  4749;  v.  n.  f. 
a  chloistecht  84-5;  do  ehloistecht 
1546,  3785,  2635;  do  cloisdeacht 
3670,  1830. 
ad-daimim  I  confess.   Ipv.  2  s.  na  ha- 

daim  384-5.    Wi. 
ad-fuar,  ad-uar  very  cold,  chill  267, 
•    1071,  1230,  1338,  2944;  a  n-aimsir 
adfuair  108-5;  in  muir  n-aduar  2668. 
ad-fuath   m.  dread,  horror.    N.s.  ad- 
fuath 1880;  adhfhuath  3820,  4216; 
aduath  294,  927,  1404,  2391,  3331; 
tuillead    re    hadfuath    160-5,    3345; 
nach    faiceand    tusa    ant     aduath 
842. 
ad-fuathmar  awful,  dreadful.   Ba  had- 
fhuathmar  4127;   co  hadfhuathmar 
4461;    co  haduathmar  640;    carrag 
aduathmar    899,    2062 ;     craiceand 
aduathmar  970;    risna  hairdib  ad- 


323 


21—2 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


uatbmara  doniat  33r52 ;  co  hegandais 
adhuathmar  1089 ;  taidbbhsedba 
adhf huathmara  3694,  4891 ;  cosna 
deib  aduathniaraib  151. 

adlaicim ,  adnaicim  (ad-anagim)  Ibu  ry, 
Pret.  3  p.  raadlaicsed  4917;  pass, 
ipv.  3  p.  adlaicter  4793;  pass.  pres. 
subj.  1  s.  is  taisci  tra  aidleoar  2111; 
fut.  3  s.  rod-aidlecthar  4897;  v.  n. 
d'  adlacad  1707;  arna  adluccun  1934. 
V.  adlucad. 

ad-lesc  inert,  reluctant,  very  loth.  Co 
hadlesc  326;  ba  haidleasc  amh  re 
Tiabandaib  4844. 

ad-lucad  m.  burying  4587,  4620,  4, 
4631,4714,  4784,  5,  4855;  d'  adhlu- 
cud  3653. 

admall  quick,  active,  ready.  Co  had- 
mall  1593.    C. 

ad-molad  m.  lauding,  belauding.  Ba 
coir... dona  deib  a  admolad  da  eis 
4286,  1476,  2314,  4218;  adhmolad 
4727;  ic  admolad  2991,  3969;  d' 
admolad  4903;  n.p.  dentar  admolta 
574;  dorigned  admolta  les3013;  ar 
ndenam  a  admolta  a  cheapoigi  eain- 
tige  4192. 

adnaicim  (ad-anaigim)  I  save,  bury. 
V.  n.  m.  adnucul  (1)  saving,  deliver- 
ing. i  nir-ua  tualaing  me  a  adnacul 
3720.    C.  p.  iii. 

(2)  Burying,  burial.  Darondad  id- 
barta  7  adnucul  3016;  m'  adnocol 
3310 ;  can  adbaid  n-adnocail  2922 ; 
can  aite  n-adnacail  3561 ;  onoir  ind 
n-adnocail  2581,  3561;  inad  adna- 
cail  4896;  ag  adnacal  1123;  ar  an 
adnocol  2590;  adnocail  onoracha 
2958;  co  ndernam  adhnacul  3604. 

adorchair  he  fell.  As  pret.  of  tuitim: 
ar  adorchair  3956;  adrocbair  746; 
atorcbair  1206 ;  atrocbair  1711,  ator- 
cair Eg.;  cuimniugud  comand  a  curad 
adorchair  3947,  a  ndorcbair  Eg. ; 
ré  siu  dofaetsad  adorchair  adraind 
4342. 

adrad  cleaving  to,  almost.  Ac  adrad- 
brisiud  1971.    C.  p.  iv,  C.C.  1189. 

adraim  I  worship.  1  p.  a  dei  da  n- 
adramaid  423 ;  2  p.  nach  e  in  dei  da 
n-adraid  ita  id  richt  2851 ;  ar  na 
dee  da  n-adraid  riut  1024;  v.  n. 
adrad  m. ;  g.s.  ba  dei  uaisli  adbartha 
2018,  2219,  2590,  2993,  3951. 

adrasta  just  now  420, 1249,  2751,  2852, 
3601,  4539,  4704,  4565  astrasda  Eg.; 
atrasda  3757,  4566,  823.  Acall.  5161. 

aegaire  m.  herd,  shepherd.  Robui  'na 
haegaire  2318;  co  tech  aegairi  4681; 
eonlenfaitis  oegaireada  na  tret 
1604. 


áel  flesh-fork,  trident.   Deib  aeil  2657. 

Wi. 
del  lime.   Mlgel  lime-white  2466.   Con- 

trib.  p.  iv. 
áel-gel  lime-white  2466. 
áen-  (1)  one.   Ag  indsaigid  aenfhir  980; 

acbt  oenbean  nama  1460;  ant  aen- 

duine  1005 ;  an  aenduine  1138, 1307 ; 

guth  oenduni  1945 ;  aicned  oenduine 

3354;  ar  oensuainem  1527;  oensruth 

1751. 

(2)  The  same.  Nar  chindaenmenma 
1138;  concindet  oencenel  7  oenath- 
arda  1618;  ba  biardaigi  aenmathar 
4493. 

(3)  One  person.  Ba  he  a  roga  each 
aein  fo  leith  dib  3926. 

áenach m.afair,  gathering.  Int aenach 
2456,  7;  dochum  inn  oenaig  2284; 
do  chomorad  aenaich  2266;  ar  lar 
inn  aenaig  2390 ;  aenaich  2395 ;  inad 
inn  aenaich  2267 ;  dar  moigib  min- 
reidi  inn  aenaig  sin  2276;  isinn 
oenacb  2274. 

áerida,  óenda  unity.  Oenda  feacht  87; 
aenda  na  n-aidebi  1532.    Aur. 

áen-fecht  at  once,  at  the  same  time. 
A  n-aenfeacht  950,  4,  1127,  4758;  i 
nn-oenfecht  3022,  3303;  i  nn-oen- 
fhecht  3416;  i  n-enfhecbt  7  a  n- 
aenuair  2333 ;  oenafecht  1849. 

áen-fher  m.  one  person,  one.  Oenfher 
2478;  dorala  aenfher  do  Grecaib 
4650. 

áen-f  huabairt  f .  the  same  attack.  Donn 
aenfhuabairt  sin  4213. 

áen-gel  pure-white  1230,  1514,  4776; 
da  ech  ailli  oengela  2290;  aircet 
aengel  2248. 

áen-inad  one  place.  A  n-eninad  3912 ; 
co  haeninad  4290,  4811. 

áen-láech  m.  one  hero.  Ticed  oenloech 
uaib  2506. 

áen-macaem  a  single  youth  3571. 

áen-maigin  one  place,  the  same  place. 
A  n-aenmaigin  4724. 

áen-memna  the  same  mind.  Ua  hen- 
menma  1869. 

áen-rí  m.  one  king.   Ag  aenrig  841. 

áentaigim  I  consent,  submit  to.  Pret. 
3  p.  roaentaigset  1630.    Laws. 

áen-tech  one  house.  Co  haentbech 
1856. 

áen-uair  same  time.   A  n-aenuair  950. 

áemir,  áenar  one  person,  single  one. 
Adraist  uasal  a  aenur  1245,  2441, 
4079,  4363,  4883;  a  oenur  2283,  2586, 
3097;  mise  mo  enur  1824,  2054, 
Eg.  am  aenur;  leic  aenur  let  alone 
2130;  lé  a  haenur  4316;  facbaid-si 
misi  m'  aenur  sund  3379. 


324 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


sénurán  dim.  of  áenur  one  person, 
single  one  801;  a  aanur  alone  91; 
am  senaran  934;  a  aanruc  1022. 

áer  m.  air.  Comma  cumaiig  int  aer 
3084;  ar  fat  inn  reoir  610,  1196; 
atha  in  aeoir  1218;  ag  sugud  gaithi 
aidhoir  2072;  edaigi  in  aieoir  1221; 
i  clethi  ffioir  2471 ;  ethaidi  imluaim- 
necha  aoeir  3411;  aeoir  4639;  isin 
n-seor  1851 ;  isin  n-aér  uastu  4820 ; 
ag  fegadb  arin  n-aer  4223. 

áes  f.  age,  time.  As  i  sin  ass  7  uair 
2595,  2770,  345;  oes  7  uair  575, 
1872;  g.s.  arai  n-aisi  2512;  dalb 
aisi  beodachta  a  fiction  of  the  age  of 
maturity  3571 ;  co  haes  na  haimsire 
1363;  co  haes  na  fuairi  sin  1538, 
2029,  2038,  2996. 

áes  m.  folk,  people.  A  ses  cumtha 
1006.  ' 

áetidach,  áitedach  youthful.  527  ete- 
tach  Eg.    C. 

Affixed  pronoun:  3  s.f.  astad-us  2362, 
ni  fosdó  í  Eg.;  merdait  2919;  v. 
maraim.    Cf.  P.H.  6079,  6838,  6901. 

ag  at,  with  dat.:  used  before  verbal 
nouns  and  compounded  with  pro- 
nouns. Ag  indsaigid  980 ;  ag  ur- 
naidiT.  912;  ag  eisimal  4871 ;  with 
pronouns:  aga  faigsin  918.    V.  oc. 

ag  f.  heifer.  Ag  allaid  hind:  amal 
aign-allaid  1881.    The. 

ág  battle,  fight.  Ke  hag  7  re  irgail  4020. 

agallaim  f.  address.  D.s.  'ga  n-agal- 
laim  932;  aga  hagallaim  1069.  V. 
acallam. 

aged  f.  face.  Co  ma  forderg  a  aiged 
2529;  aigid  ind  agaid  3094;  ana 
agaid  shlebe  1669;  'na  agaid  2503, 
4179;  'na  aigid  493, 1633;  ara  agaid 
639;  dar  agaid  3388;  tugsad  a  n- 
aigthi  4233 ;  ag  inred  a  aichthi  930 ; 
aichthi  479;  a  haigthi  1855;  dar 
aichtib725;  dar  aigthib  4115;  dona 
haichthib  2337;  tugsad  a  n-aigthi 
4117;  a  n-agaid  against  972,  1075, 
4079;  re  aigid  3582. 

ágmar  warlike.  Airechta  agmara  1555; 
inna  stuaig  agmair  2848,  4232;  do 
shleig  uillig  aghmair  3823  ;  bertnai- 
gís  Téis  ant  sleig  n-agmair  4878. 
C.C. 

*agron  height,  citadel,  aKpov.  G.s. 
agruin  2660,  4,  5,  6. 

áibind,  óibind pleasant,  beautiful,  joy- 
ful. Ech  aibind  2466;  ar  inadaib 
aibne  4453,  4604;  asin  chathraig 
uraird  oaibind  1393;  iter  in  sliab 
n-aibind  1394;  ara  eochaib  aibind 
almavdaib  4437. 

áibnius    m.   enjoyment,  pleasure  626; 


re  haibnius  1885;  ac  ol  7  aibnius 
719,  2991;  d'  ol  7  d'  aibnius  2995, 
7. 

aicbeil  terrible,  dangerous.  Debaid 
aicbel  3165;  robad  aicmeil  eisinill 
406;  do  gonaib  aicbeli  2880;  ar 
urcharaib  aicbeli  2903;  ni  riacht- 
adar  gona  aigbeili  4519.    G. ,  Laics. 

aicbeile  f.  terribleness,  danger,  harm. 
Can  aigbeile  4007.    Laics. 

aiccendta  natural,  hereditary,  patri- 
monial 706.    Laws. 

aiccenta  nature.  D'  urgairdigud  ai- 
centa  2274;  ua  hindtocuail  aiceanta 
705 ;  ana  n-aigentaib  886.    P.H. 

aice  .i.  uchd  O'Dav.  breast.  Trena 
haigeadaib  539 ;  is  ed  tainic  a  n-aige 
7  a  n-ardde  3623,  but  cf.  áige,  aige. 

aichnid well-known 247;  so-a-2335.  Wi. 

aicned  nature,  mind,  heart,  resolution 
671,  1544,  1990,  2959,  3354;  tanic 
a  n-aicned  forro  3125;  bid  aicned 
fearda  accaib  1857;  aicnedh  1045; 
tainig  aignedh  4606;  ba  failid  a 
haigned  de  4722;  ina  aignead  1217 ; 
a. p.  comdaingnigid  bar  n-aigenta 
4812;  co  nn-aiceantaib  n-examla 
3080 

aidble  f.  hugeness,  vastness.  Re  haidbli 
1910.    T.T.1 

aidche,  adaig  f.  night.  In  aidchi  sin 
1173,  6;  rnina  tisadh  an  aiged  fai 
3886,  1169;  in  adaig  1339,  4612, 
4619;  inn  adaig  1413,  3382  ;  neoill  na 
haidchi  913,  4613 ;  bandei  na  haidchi 
3969;  derid  aidchi  1346,  3970;  isin 
n-aidchi  sin  2032,  2189,  3898,  3970, 
4687 ;  in  aidchi  sin  4621 ;  isan  oichdi 
1460 ;  co  cend  noi  n-aidchi  2260. 

aidedach  death-dealing,  fatal.  In  gilla 
oc  aededach  1535. 

aidid  f.  violent  death,  fate,  tragedy. 
Ni  hi  seo  seidid  rofaelius-sa  2233 ; 
aided  2964,  7;  oiged  4169,  4554; 
oidhedh  3846,  7;  oighidh  3645,  50; 
ni  fhetar  a  n-aidhid  2037;  co  fuigbind 
m'  seided  2956;  co  tucthar  aigid 
mar  so  1020 ;  na  hseidid  na  samla-sa 
fair  2187;  g.s.  inndeall  a  oideada 
889;  oc  thairrngairi  bais  7  aideada 
3055;  a  n-inad  commordha  m' 
oidhedha  3850;  aigeda  Eg.  1658; 
d'  fhagbail  a  oigeda  1693,  1049; 
a.s.  co  fuigbind  m'  abided  2956;  n.p. 
ba  hecsamla  a  n-aideda  3546 ;  nir-ba 
sruitheada  a  n-aideada  3167.    C. 

áige  hill.  A  n-aige  7  a  n-ardde  ant 
srotha  3623.    .i.  cnoc  O'Cl. 

aige  n.  member,  muscle.  Cruaidkither 
ii  erandlsem  gach  n-alt  7  gach  aigi 
de  3365.    Wi. 


325 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


aigeán  m.  ocean.  Dar  eoehar-bordaib 
in  aigeoin  1168.  Aicén  C.C.  Aigéan 
m.  TSh. 

áigi,  óegi  m.  guest.   A.  p.  aigedu  2301. 

áigidecht  f.  visit  as  guest,  hospitality. 
Ar  aigidecht  2303. ' 

aigreta  icy  267.  Oigreta  1230.  Aig- 
red  n.  ice.    Contrib.  p.  v. 

aigretach  icy,  frozen.  On  uarda  oigre- 
taig  3032. 

áil  pleasing.  Is  ed  is  ail  lium  1125; 
as  ail  lib  2144;  im  gach  ni  uas  ail 
letsu  674 ;  ni  hail  leó  839 ;  is  ed  sin 
ba  bail  do  G.  2594 ;  nir-ua  ail  2137 ; 
nir-b  ail  leo  3940. 

aile  other.  Dias  aile  2973;  in  fer  aile 
558,  1491;  nech  aili  2283;  imda 
aile  1462;  snima  imda  aile  1598; 
re  mnaib  aili  2033 ;  drem  eili  4134 ; 
in  n-aird  aili  2311. 

áilgen  longing  shamelessly,  passionate, 
gentle.  O  briathraib  ailgenaib  3180; 
co  binmain  ailgen  1069.    The.,  P.H. 

áilgim  /  desire.  Pret.  1  s.  roailgius-sa 
2955.    C. 

áilgine  f.  urgency,  imporUinacy,  eager 
hospitality.  Dogabmaid  th'  ailgine- 
siu  679. 

áilgius  m.  urgent  demand,  desire, 
eagerness.  Ni  roibi  a.  1596,  2330; 
ailgius  catba  2610;  comma  mo  ail- 
gius  sarthoili  na  mmban  1629, 1631, 
2;  re  bailgius  na birgaili  3061.    C.C. 

áilgiusach  desirable,  urgent,  impor- 
tunate 1829;  ailgiussacb  674. 

ailim  I  nourish,  bring  up.  Pret.  2  s. 
ro-ailis  153;  3  s.  rohailestar  1723; 
p.p.  rohoiledh  3609;  rohoiled  511; 
rom-ailead  117;  v.  n.  m'  aileamain 
4196;  da  aileamain  7  da  altrom  98, 
4196;  dot  aileamain  7  dot  altrom 
2234,  2038. 

ailim  I  ask,  implore.  3  p.  roailsed  1760. 

áilleas  m.  pleasure,  satisfaction  1324, 
aileas  Eg. 

ailsedach  negligent.  Comtis  ailsedaig 
eúgnuma  3134.    C. 

aim-les  m.  disadvantage,  hurt,  thwart- 
ing, false  charge.  Gé  doronas  a 
aimles  1058 ;  dobeir  ortsu  in  aimles 
2622.    P.H.,  C. 

aim-neartach  weak,  listless  326. 

aim-réid  unsmooth,  uneven,  rugged. 
Co  himlib  amreidi  3506;  iter  da 
sliab  aimreidi  898;  a  slebtib  arda 
amreidi  3136. 

aimser  f.  time.  Is  i  tra  aimser  2313; 
amser  1369;  aimsear  575;  ar  tus 
na  baimsiri  1289;  a  n-aimsir  1085, 
1338;  i  nn-aimsir  gairb  (sic  corr.) 
1983,  2403. 


áin  alas!  4490;  áin  rushes  C.  Scris 
for  ain  scraping  on  rushes;  scris 
salainn  for  tuighe  a  scraping  of  salt 
on  thatch,  O'Dav.  No.  20.  According 
to  Stokes,  a  proverbial  expression: 
cf.  S.G.  mo  chreach. 

ainbthenach  stormy.  Etir  in  muir 
n-ainbtbeanacb  1396;  co  h.  279; 
arin  mm*  anbtbeanaig  1834,  610;  in 
mara  critbainbtbeanaig  3406;  in 
muir  n-ainfenach  2668;  ag  fegadh 
arin  n-aer  n-ard  n-anfenacb,  4223; 
in  muir  anbthenacb  2160,  3085;  a 
n-aimsir  adfuair  anbbtbenaigh 
1085. 

ainbtbine  f.  stonn.  Eotbocaib  inn  ainb- 
tbine  a  tnasan  273;  roeiridb  ainmfine 
3620;  re  met  na  morainbtbine  1969; 
a  baitbli  anbtbine  648;  re  banfine 
in  mara  1977. 

aindsclech  combative,  combatant.  A 
llama  adannta  aindsclecba  404;  co 
baduatbmar  aindsclecb  640,  aind- 
sglecba  Eg. ;  ua  haindsecb  756, 
hainnsgleacha  Eg.  Ainscle  hard 
combat  O'Dav.  No.  171. 

aindsech  dire,  fateful.  Ua  haindsecb. 
756,  hainnsgleacha  Eg.  Aindeiseach 
calamitous  O'E. 

ain-eóil  (1)  unknown,  strange,  foreign. 
Indsaigid  in  tire  aineoil  248,  2969. 

(2)  Want  of  knowledge.    Dar  ain- 
neoil  na  ndei  3848. 

ain-eólach  ignorant,  strange,  unknown. 
Ua  haineolach  1789 ;  a  nduama 
aineolaig  1260 ;  rop  aneolacb  1538. 

áines  m.  joy.  Ainius626;  ba  bainius 
7  ba  haibnius  468.  Amusement, 
sport  C.  p.  vi. 

aingim  /  defend.  Ipf.  subj.  3  s.  gidead 
roanced  4031.    V.  anaicim. 

ain-inde  f.  senselessness,  anger.  Acht 
mad  anindi  1842,  583 ;  anindi  abdul 
3341;  annindi  1813;  a  comartha 
eassaentaga  7  ainindi  na  deisi  4740; 
annini  380 ;  rochuimnigis  do  chealga 
7  t'  aininde  4552.    C. 

ain-indecb,  ain-innech  angry,  irascible 
907,  20,  30,  1312,  3324;  anindech 
1379,  1426,  1593;  ainindeach  3273, 
4384,  4494;  anindeach  3056;  ain- 
nindeach  3921 ;  d'  indsaigh  cech 
cineada  ainindaig  1117. 

aimn  name.  A  ainm  1752  ;  a  hainm 
4643;  ainm  aili  1764;  a  hainm 
2780;  a. p.  anmand  1160;  a  n- 
anmand-side  1388,  1728;  ba  biad 
so  a  n-anmanda  994,  2036,  2777  ;  at 
e  andso  a  h-anmanna  3765 ;  0  a  n- 
anmandaib  dilsi  by  their  proper 
names  2368. 


326 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


ain-min  rough,  ungentle.   Co  hainmin 

920,  2878^  4480,'  4510.    C. 
ainmnech    namely,    illustrious.     G.s. 

aiscedaig  urbaga  a  athar  ainmnig 
975. 

air-berim  I  bring.  Past  subj.  3  s.  air- 
beread  da  uidh  240. 

airchisim,  ar-chessim  /  pity,  have 
merey  on,  save  from  :  with  de.  Eel. 
airchises  2662;  ipv.  2  s.  orchis  dod 
bunadchinel  fein  4408  ;  airchis  dindi 
4785 ;  2  p.  airchisid  dim  3309.    P.H. 

aird  f.  end,  quarter,  limit,  direction. 
As  gach  aird  749,  1436,  1613,  2163, 
3281,  3427;  in  n-aird  aili  and  2311 ; 
uar  aird  1424 ;  ua  eheatharairdib  204. 

aird-chendas  m.  high  headship,  suprem- 
acy 834. 

airdde  f.  height.  Do  airddi  394;  ara 
roairdi  1971 ;  ag  dul  a  n-airdi  going 
aloft  1237;  ara  hardi  rochuir  2489.' 

airde  sign.  N.p.  airrde  753,  airgeda 
Eg.;  co  buigbed  sibsi  na  hairdi 
urbada-sa  2180;  na  dei  uasta  risna 
hairdib  doniat  3352. 

aird-echtach  doing  high  deeds 3565. 

airden  m.  sign.  Tancotar  airdhena 
(sic  corr.)  bais  3839;  airrdena  4541; 
a. p.  airdena  3308;  d.p.  i  nn-airde- 
anaib  eca  3322.    P.H. 

air-derc  famous,  conspicuous.  7  sciath 
oirderc  3576 ;  na  hilbuidni  airrdrici 
1444. 

airdni  signs.  Comdis  airdni  athchum- 
tha  3430,  comdis  oirdne  Eg.  Airdini 
The.  p.  159. 

aird-ri  m.  high-king.  Ba  hairdri  4904 ; 
robris  each  airech  7  each  airdri 
2813 ,  3927 ;  a  n-ucht  in  airdrig  3934 ; 
don  airdrig  1584 ;  v.s.  a  airdrig  4367. 

aire  heed,  notice.  Tabraidsi  uar  n- 
airi  493 ;  ni  thugsad  da  n-airi  4621 ; 
tabair-si  t'  airi  1229 ;  asa  airi  1257 ; 
ni  tabraid  da  n-airi  3352;  tucsadar 
each  da  n-airi  hi  1829;  ni  thuc  da 
haire  2058. 

airech  m.  chief,  prince.  Robris  each 
airech  2813 ;'  airig  an  tiri  1162, 1530. 

airecnad  m.  observing,  observation. 
Can  a.  1111. 

airechas  m.  supremacy,  sovereignty. 
Tucad  aireochus  indsi  L.  uili  1935 ; 
athair  an  oireachais  1140;  imsnim 
aireochais  in  rig  sin  335 ;  a  cathraig 
oireachais  4782. 

airecht  f.  gathering,  assembly,  com- 
pany. A  hoireacht  thnuthach  880; 
rehuaislib  na  hoirechta  1259;  ac 
airiucht  aile  1400;  n.p.  oirechta 
4899;  airechta  1431,  1444,  2666, 
2946 ;  tresna  haireachtaib  191,  4616 ; 


nrrigha  cona  oirechtaib  3861 ;  ua 
oirechtaib  aidblib  696;  ar  hoirech- 
taibh  3813.    G.  p.  viii. 

airechtas  m.  assembly.  A  hinadaib 
arda  oirechtais  3750,  4453,  4604. 
Wi. 

air-écor  adornment,  array.  A  chath- 
bai-r  orecair  588.    T.T.\C. 

airegda  excellent,  pre-eminent  1440, 
2082 ;  tigi  arda  airegda  2732 ;  oiregda 
4,  73;  aireda  1197;  airedha  3881; 
airigda  849  ;  compar.  airegda  383. 

áirem  f.  number,  account.  Airim  4919; 
a  n-airium  1894;  d'  airium  1467; 
co  na  fetar  airim  a  n-airimi  3946. 

airet  space,  time  507. 

airge  beam,  rafter  4501.    C. 

airget  silver.   Aircet  2248. 

air-icim  I  invent,  find.  Pres.  3  s. 
roairic  758. 

airigim  I  perceive,  notice,  observe. 
Pret.  1  s.  roairigis  tu  2923;  3  s. 
roairig  599,  3184,  3308 ;  roarig  2344 ; 
raairig  1653,  2044,  2451,  4527;  nir- 
airig  3489;  3  p.  roairigsetar  a  mis- 
cais  2205;  v.  n.  gan  airigiud  2074, 
3160 ;  can  airiubad  4402. 

air-isem,  air-shisem  m.  persisting,  re- 
maining, staying,  waiting.  Can 
oirisim  3888. 

airlech  m.  slaughter..  G.s.  re  haidbli 
in  airlig  1911;  ré  hoirleaeh  1272; 
da  airlech  2455;  ac  airlech  3183; 
fuair  a  airlech  3198;  trenoirrleach 
4514;  ama  n-airleach  3486,  3861; 
aga  n-oirrlech  4870.    C. 

airm  a  place.  Airm  i  where.  Airm  a 
roibi  2171,  4693;  co  hairm  3319, 
4159,  4560,  4657,  4749,  4877. 

airmbert  f .  preparation,  quality.  A.p. 
neeh  ara  ririm  a  hairmerta  769. 
Airimhert  C.C. 

airmidnech,  v.  oirmuidnech. 

áirmim  (ad-rim-im)  I  number.  Pres.  3p 
ni  airniit  scribhenna  4911 ;  pret.  3  s 
nir-airimh-sium  3882 ;  roairim  2270 : 
p.  fut.  3  s.  uair  airemthar  do-som  iter 
deib  e  2187 ;  p.p.  o  rohairmed  2271 
v.  n.  aga  n-airim  fein  1001.  V.  áirern 

airmitiu  f.  veneration,  reverence.  In 
n-airmitin  2191. 

air-ri  m.  viceroy,  lieutenant.  N.p. 
airig  1530,  2579;  g.p.  airig  1162. 
C.C. 

airsid,  v.  arsaid. 

airthend  m.  oats.  Ar  lar  in  airthind 
2061 ;  ac  ithi  in  fheoir  7  inn  air- 
thind 2073.    Wi.,  P.H. 

airther  East.  Ar  i}-airthiur  205;  iar 
n-airthiur  1395,  2605. 

ais  back.    Ara  hais  1922. 


327 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


aiscedach  f.  gift.  A.s.  aisgedaig 
urbaga  974.    Ascedach  liberal  C. 

aiscid  f.  gift.  Inn  aiscicl  sin  757,  795; 
a  n-aiscidh  as  a  present  1143 ;  tabraid 
dam  in  n-aiscid  sin  uaib  3314;  do- 
bertar  aisceda  1773;  ni  hiad  so 
aisceada  dingbala  3375;  o  thuc  A. 
na  haisceda  sin  2419 ;  tucaid  aisceada 
2568. 

aiscim  I  restore,  return.  Ni  aiscim  ort 
1359.    Denom.  from  aissec  C. 

aisling  f.  a  dream,  vision.  N.p.  aislingi 
622;  tre  thaidbsib  n-aislingthi  1611, 
n-aislinge  Eg.;  adchonnarc  aslingi 
3232 ;  adconnairc  fos  a  n-aislingi 
3696.    C. 

aisneis  (ess-ind-fiadaim)  f.  narration, 
promulgation.  Dogenad  faistine  7 
fireolus  d'  aisneis  3007;  ba  hadbul 
re  aisneis  3063.    V.  faisneis. 

áit  f .  place,  dwelling  -place.  Dentar  aitt 
7  adba  duit  4591 ;  aidi  7  adba  dó 
4608,  v.  kite;  1138;  asa  hait  7  asa 
hinad  4450;  can  ait  7  can  inad  d' 
fagbail  1252 ;  ni  lecfet  aitt  na  hinad 
1707;  ait  i  rrauatar  where  they  /cere 
1849 ;  as  a  n-aitibh  3622;  ait  a  rnbai 
4256;  a  haitib  islib  4319. 

aitches  caution,  anxiety.  Ilacba  ait- 
cesa4044Eg.,aithise  E.  P.H.,Wi. 
V.  f aitches. 

aite  m.  fosterer.  Ba  he  P.  ua  liseiti 
2512;  7  a  haiti  4403;  ua  he-sseic  ua 
hoidi  teglaig  do  P.  3792;  7  a  hoiti 
2651;  m'  oidi  4670;  a  hoidi  4672; 
d'  eis  a  oiti  515;  ré  hoiti  4728. 

áite  house,  dwelling,  den.  Dentar  aidi 
7  adba  dó  4608 ;  aite  7  adba  4591  Eg. , 
4608;  a  hait  7  a  hadba  186;  a.p. 
aiteda  anaibnejoyless  dens  1658.  C.C. 

aithber  m.  reproach.  Da  thabairt  a 
aithbir  furri  511. 

aitlie  requitement,  vengeance,  retalia- 
tion. Cen  aithi  3524,  aifi  Eg.;  can 
aighfi  3611;  a  aife  ar  inti  3722;  d' 
aithi  7  do  degail  oraind  ar  n-uile 
1959.   Aid.,  a,  O'D. 

aith-eirge  f.  rising  again  4895. 

aith-éirgim  I  rise  again.  Pret.  3  s. 
roaitherig  2539;  v.  n.  f.  ac  urtriall 
aitheirgi  3487.   V.  above. 

aithesc  message,  news.  O  roraidh  E. 
an  aithesc  sin  3887. 

aith-gér  very  sharp  538,  905,  1154, 
1271,  1278,  1368,  2574,  3053,  3086, 
3268,  4480;  risin  coill  athger  1516.' 

aithinne  m.  firebrand,  torch.  Dobean- 
si  aithindi*  dib  4684,  4713  ;  taidlech 
in  athindi  4687  ;*.p.  aithindedal365, 
2152, 3143, 4272, 4683 ;  onahathindib 
3146.    C. 


aithis,  v.  athais. 

aithisiugud  m.   reviling.    Ace.  aithi- 

siugud  3806.    V.  athisigim. 
aithle  a  following  after,  consequence. 

Asa  haithli  sin  after  that  4264,  (sic 

corr.)  741. 
aithle  remnant  of  a  fire,  torch,  lamp. 

Aithleanda  3139,  aitbginna  Eg.  Wi. 
aith-legtha  re-molten,  refined,  purified. 

Aircet  sengel  aithlegtha  2248. 
aithne  f .  recognition,    Ac  tobairt  aichni 

2316 ;  co  nar-fhurusa  aichni  a  chuirp 

2097 ;  ana  aichne  1583,  3298;  co  tard 

aichni   3298;    o  thuc  aichni  3299, 

3124,    3471,  3482;   rabui  d'  aichni 

3361;  doberim-si  aithne  I  recognise 

1251;  tucastar  I.  aichni  ar  B.  1914. 
aithne  f.  order,  entrusting.  Dursandam 

t'  aithni  dot  aileamain  2234.    TSh. 
aithni    recognised,    acknowledged,     Ba 

haithni  senathar  4493.    Aetgnithi  = 

aithgnithi  Wb.  V>  14. 
aithnid    known,     recognised,    acknow- 
ledged,   Nir-ba  haithnid   2946;    cf. 

aithni  BBnathar  4493.    Tbc.  p.  747. 
aithnigim  I  recognise.   Pret.  3  s.  aith- 

nigis-sium  4778. 
aithnim  I  recognise,  knoiv.    Pret.  3  s. 

aithniss-4652;  aithnis  4699. 
aithnim,  aithenim  I  order.    Pret.  3  s. 

roaithin89,131;  roathain3792.  TSh. 
aithrech  repentant.    Ua  haithrech  leo- 

sum  sin  1925. 
aitreb  dwelling,  habitation.    Ua  hadh- 

fhuathmar  tra  re  aitrebh  3859.    C. 
aittrehaid,  aitrebthaid  m.  inhabitant. 

N.p.    aittrebaidi   1471;   athtrebaide 

1492 ;  aitrebaid  1432. 
aittrebthach,  aitrebach  m.  inhabitant, 

compeer.  7  bid  d'  aitrebachaib  837. 

P.H. 
álad  m.  wound.    Ni  thugnech  dib  goin 

na  alad  4477 ;  ger  ba  himda  na  halaid 

4519,  4705.    C. 
alad-brec    dappled,   piebald.     Pupuill 

aladbreca  2738 ;  siad  ailli  aladbreca 

2294. 
álaind  beautiful.   Barrin  aloind  1514; 

ingen  alaind  4634 ;  o  tbondaib  srotha 

alaind  4734;  v. p.  a  occu  ailli  417; 

a  snaitheda  ailli  1209 ;  d'  elaib  ailli 

1230 ;  compar.  ni  roibi  nech  bad  aili 

4163,  aille  Eg.;   uad  ailli  1543;  co 

haitib  roailli  611 ;  fa  cathbarraib  ailli 

ordaigi  4492;   uar  na  hechaib  ailli 

allmarda  2343,  4775. 
all  rock,  cliff.   Comma  hall  2940 ;  feib 

tiastais  ré  haill  as  they  might  fall 

down  rocks  4509,  ri  hall  Eg.  G. ,  C.  C. 
alia   out   of.    Koindarbad  alia  in  tin 

1540;  alia  muich  1123.   P.H. 


328 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


allaid  (1)  wild.  Tore  allaid  351,  867, 
1881;  g.s.  449,  925;  d.p.  do  chonaib 
allta  wolves  1883.  (2)  deer.  Brith 
arna  halltaib  2433,  bealtaib  Eg.,  L. 
cervas  Theb.  vi  567,  elit  hind  being 
mistaken  for  elta  bird-flocks.  C.C. 
Cf.  The. 

allata  famous  706,  1999,  2828,  2905, 
3026,  3250,  3400.    C. 
*»    all-marda   over-sea,    transmarine,   Jo- 
rdan,   savage    2277,    2343,    3063, 
4437,  4776.    C,  C.C. 

alltag-,  allta  +  ag  f.  wild-beast.  G.s.  as 
adj.  an  craicend  alltaigi  970.  V.  ag. 
.En. 

alius  sweat.  Re  snuadallus  2338;  tre 
alius  1094. 

almae,  alma  flock,  herd.  N.p.  rob.  id  - 
braid  alma  2254;  g.p.  almad  1037; 
ocdaim  na  n-almad  1404 ;  ac  inred 
alma  1889.    Tbe. 

alt  joint  3364. 

altóir,  f.  altar.  Is  and  dobai  altoir 
alaind  4761;  cbum  na  baltora  sin 
4764;  ar  altoir  1634;  a. p.  adconnairc 
altoir  D.  3711,  1.  altora;  rosuidigit 
acu  altoiri  2224;  dena  altoir  4140; 
cona  n-altoraib  ailli  adartha  2153. 

altrom  rea  ring.  Da  haltrom  1724  ;  da 
altrom  509 ;  dot  altrom  2234.  V.  ailim. 

altrumaim  I  rear.   Pret.  2  s.  roaltrum- 
ais  153 ;  p.p.  rom-altromad  117. 
r     altugud,  atlugud  m.  thanks.  Al.  buide 
453.    S.G.  altacb  saying  grace. 

am  time,  in  am  when.  In  am  dochuadar 
2772,  intan  Eg. ;  in  am  rabaiEt.4384, 
ant  am  Eg. ;  in  am  robui-sium  3259 ; 
in  am  2772,  intan  Eg. 

ám  indeed,  truly.  Ni  fheadar-sa  am 
2143;  nir  miad  am  4868;  amb  4399, 
1991 ;  truag  am  sin  1250;  is  mor  am 
2678 ;  ba  suaiebnieb  am  egcosc  2278 ; 
bad  earaid  cumtba  am  dosum  2318 ; 
a  ingen  am  2682;  ni  leigeand  am 
4226 ;  is  truag  am  linde  4596. 
s  a-mach,  outward,  out,  outside  195,  968, 
608,  984,  2232,  3025,  3759,  4092, 
4281 ,4712,  4771 ,  4832 ;  ammacb  750. 

amae  surely  2628. 

amaindsech  fore-seeing,  prudent,  icise. 
Ammaindsech  3102;  Eacbtor  ama- 
indsech 3964,  L.  providus  Actor 
Theb.  x  329;  amal  boi  dia  amainsi 
Alex.  1015.    T.T.1 

amaitm.  f.  wizard,  witch.  Kehurgrain 
na  bamaidi  sin  3448.  N.p.  amaiti 
2390 ;  roeirgedar  amaidi  4444.    C. 

amal  as  (1)  prep,  with  ace.  Amal 
saignena  3088 ;  amal  ralaig  roremair 
1004;  amal  aig  n-allaid  1881;  amail 
an  tilcoma  943 ;  amail  ralaig  1519 ; 


amail  renna  2865 ;  amal  leoman  1036, 
3206 ;  amal  tarb  1097. 

(2)  conj.a.s.  Amal tanig 866, 1085. 

(3)  as  if.  Amal  bad  i  ind  fhidbad 
2809,  3347 ;  amal  comcumaisctis  na 
gffitha  3079;  amal  noretbidis  da 
buindi  diana  3135.    P.H. 

amar  as  929.    V.  amal  (1),  S.G.  mar. 
amárach,   imbárach,    in-bó-árach    to- 
morrow.   With  iar  n- :   arnamarach 

2195.    V.  arnamarach. 
amastrach  f.  barking.    Ac  amastraig 

acorn  gairm  2927.    C,  C.C. 
amlaid  so,  thus.   Amlaid  sin  499,  865, 

1021,  1460;   is  amlaid-seo  3024;  is 

amlaid  bai  1451 ;    an  sailti  amlaid 

anor  d'  fadbail  4654. 
amnas   hard,   fierce.     Sleagh   aithger 

amnas   3053;    co   fergach   firamnas 

2821;   co  hamnas  3118;  do  gonaib 

amainse  2879. 
amra(l)  wonderful.  Selcaireamra3692; 

sug  amro  3760.   (2)  miracle  622.    Wi. 
a,-muich  on  the  outside.  Eofagbaid  drem  C 

amuich  4090 ;  amuigh  3737 ;  amuich 

ar  an   fhaithchi  4769;    iter  thall  7 

amuich 2198;  eter  amuich  7  tall  3903; 

tairis  amuich  aneachtair  2214,  2716. 
amus  a  hit.    Urchur  cen  amus  2902; 

ar  amus  Eth.  at  Eteocles  3263. 
amus  m.  mercenary ,  soldier  245,  2700. 

C.C. 
an... an  whether... or  4227.    V.  in. 
án  splendid.    Argia  an  690;   rogres  a 

eochu  ana  athloma  2862. 
ana.    N.p.n.  is  ed  ana  cetna  2355;  cor- 

indiseadar  ana  cetna  do  2974  ;  g.p.n. 

ag  urail  ana  cetna  orro  1108.    V.  i-, 

cf.  ina. 
anacarthach.anacarach  fierce, ruthless.  V 

L.  ferus  669,  2558,  3111;  co  hana- 

carach  2524. 
ana-chéil  senseless, fierce  2353 ;  L.  asper 

Hippodamus  Theb.  vi.  436. 
an-áibind,  jo  yless,  distressful  594, 1658, 

4319. 
an-aichnid  strange,  unknown  408;  ind- 

saigid  in  tire  anaichnid  248;  a. p.  na 

firu  anachinti  414. 
anaicim    I   save,  protect.    Ipf.    subj. 

gidead  roanced  mo  thigerna  'na  be- 

thaid  4031 ;  iut.  3  p.  ni  dad  t'  aincfed 

853;  pf.  3  s.  roanaich  2386;  v.n.  tuc 

sec  accarda  7  anacul  2858;  'ca  n- 

anacul  1063 ;  ag  iarraid  anacail  1024 ; 

d'  anacul  3809 ;  maithem  n-anacail, 

v .  maithem.    C. 
anaim  /  stay,  delay.    Ipv.  2  s.  an  4367, 

4467;  2p.*anaid  3927;  ipf.  subj.  3  p. 

cona  handais  4215 ;  pret.  2  s.  nachar- 

anais  4706;    3  s.  abs.   anais   4870, 


329 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


4883;  3  s.  nir-an  1100,  2484,  4347; 
roan  ris  3498,  4908;  3  p.  nir-ansad 
1844;  roansacl-sum  2723,  4873 ;  v.  n. 
anad  ris  4866 ;  acbt  anad  3090 ;  nir- 
fffim  anad  4174 ;  een  anad  3433,  3461, 
4470,  4813,  4830;  rotriallsom  anad 
371. 

an-air./Vo»i  the  East  698;  anoir  4906. 

anál  f.  breath.  Be  hanalaib  na  n-each 
2338. 

Analytic  verb:  tucad  chucaib-si  me 
2953,  2055 ;  antan  idhbertar  tu  3684 ; 
leigfigtber  tu  fein  as  4028;  na  marb- 
tbar  sib  ni  as  mo  3379 ;  gid  a  oenur 
rofhacbad  sib  e  3410;  co  buigbed 
sibsi  2180 ;  nach  mairbfed  sib  1866 ; 
muirbfer  sind  1903. 

an-arsaid  not  veteran,  inexperienced 
1846;  anarrsaid  1545.    C. 

an-arsaidecht  f.  inexperience.  Ara  an- 
arsaidheacht  leo  3747;  ar  th'  an- 
arsaidhecht  3780. 

anbáil  great,  heavy.    Anuail  408. 

anbainde,  anfainne  f.  weakness.  Tainig 
anbaindi  4701. 

anbuinide  untoward,  unnatural.  Co 
hanbuinidi  anurlam  102 ;  cf .  anbuain 
distressful.    C. 

and  there  4736  and  passim.    V.  ind. 

andam,  annam  seldom.  Ba  bannam 
3473.   Wi. 

anddar  les,  v.  adar. 

an-des  from  the  South,  South.  In  gaeth 
andeas  278. 

andsin  then,  there  922,  958,  992,  4675, 
4703,  4731,  4769. 

an-eolach  ignorant  1891. 

anfainnigim  I  weaken,  enfeeble.  P.p.p. 
anmaindi(g)ti  3183,  anuainniti  Eg. 

anfann  weak.  In  ri  anband  1379, 1121; 
acht  mad  in  senoir  anuonn  3884 ; 
ger-u  anfonn  3836;  ger-b  anband 
robui  3301 ;  co  hanband  eserit  2175 ; 
co  h.  eueirt  2398,  2950,  3228,  3394, 
4385.    TSh. 

anfarasta  restless,  unsedate,  difficult. 
Anuarasta  701.  C.C.  Anbhfborusta 
Lism.  1556;  forásta  advanced,  pro- 
ficient, for-ásaim  3311. 

an-fhír  (1)  untrue.  Ua  banfbir  in  bretb 
1665.  (2)  injustice,  wrong,  unright- 
eousness. Eobai  gus  anui  ar  anfir  he 
lias  been  till  to-day  in  the  wrong 
4410.    C. 

anfulang  intolerable.  Ua  farracb  a. 
978. 

anforus  restlessness, unsteadiness,  folly. 
Ee  banborus  4509 ;  gur-b  anburus 
3480.    C. 

anglond  m.  doughty  man,  hero.  Int 
anglond  3297. 


anglondach  doing  famous  deeds  3151, 
3423.    The. 

ani,  v.  ni. 

an-iar  {I)  from  the  West.  (2)  in  rea r  983. 

anim  f.  soul,  life.  Eoscailed  a  anuin  Y 
re  a  corp  3853;  can  anmain  4879; 
'na  banmain  4701;  tangadar  an- 
mann  4458;  cen  anmain  2075,  2090, 
2787,  3548,  4310;  tre  tuduscad  an- 
mand  1635 ;  tuariscbail  na  n-anmand 
1678 ;  portimmarchoirtbid  na  n-an- 
manda  1650;  co  tudusctis  anmanna 
1650;  gair  na  banmanda  1672;  iter 
na  banmandaib  1698;  v. p.  a  an- 
manda  na  nGrec  4890. 

an-mainditi,  v.  anfainnigim. 

anmide  m.  animal.  Cade  int  anmanda 
159,  ant  ainmide  Eg. ;  cenela  an- 
midead2774.    C. 

annam  rare,  seldom.   Ba  bannam  3473. 

annat-som.  3  p.  than  they  are  1868; 
2  s.  anai-siu  1058.    V.  ina. 

an(n)ell-chroda,  v.  indell-cróda. 

anocht  to-night  3919. 

an-olr  (1)  in  front  983.  (2)  from  the 
East.   An-oir  co  rind  mora  4906. 

anoissi  now  3311,  4343;  anoss  4273; 
anois  4322,  4895;  anoisi  4677, 1656, 
3883,  4840;  anosa  1658, 173S,  1860, 
3944. 

anórach,  anórugud,  v.  onóracb,  onó- 
rugud. 

ánrad  m.  warrior,  champion.  Ocbta 
na  n-ánrad  951. 

ánrata  warlike,  heroic.  E.  óg  anrata 
4312;  ua  banrata  aicned  1544,  hur- 
runta  Eg.;  3315,  4312  ;  occal  anriata 
Eg.  4251,  4495 ;  ecbtacb  anrata 
3129,  3936.    C. 

anriata  not  broken  in,  unsubdued  3766, 
4251  Eg.    C.C. 

an-sádail  inieasy,  unsettled.  Co  an- 
sbadail  930.    Sádail  C.C. 

an-sádaileachd  f.  uneasiness,  inse- 
curity, discomfort  238. 

ante,  an  te,  v.  i  with  art. 

an-úas,  v.  uas. 

anund,    aii-shund    from    here,    over.        ,  . 
Tair  limsa   anund  isin    Teib  2757; 
anund    isin    cathraig    4191,    4307; 
annund  323,  370;  anull  p.  xvi. 

apach  bowels,  entrails.  Asa  apach 
3478 ;  ara  apach  541 ;  acinn  apach 
tretholl-sa  3462;  n.p.  ná  fuilet 
apaigi  4857,  3453;  g.p.  d'  adlucud 
na  n-abacb  4786;  d.p.  d'  apaigib 
bar  coi-p  1325;  dona  habaigib  4678, 
4852.    C.C,  abbacb  C. 

Apposition:  ár  dermbair  fora  muintir 
maoaibh  mnaibh  825,  1858.  Cf. 
P.H.  6309,  Aur.  5349. 


330 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


X    aprisc  frail  3311. 

ar  (1)  on,  upon,  for:  prep,  with  dat. 
(rest)  and  ace.  (motion).  Ar  mul- 
laoh  an  muir  4402;  ar  ehorpu  na 
nGrec  4896;  ar  antir  4410;  ar  in 
fear  1353,  944 ;  fair  a  rrith  1573 ;  arin 
muir  1834;  ar  in  cairdes  4414;  ar 
eachaib  ailli  4775;  ar  deib  na  ar 
dainib  1305 ;  dul  ar  cend  na  n-ingen 
to  go  for  the  girls  178 ;  ar  na  sluagaib 
3152;  ar  an  magh  931,  907;  ar  an 
cloich953;  aratabradh  1192;  ar  sin 
thereupon  4262;  ara  batbair  1922; 
ar  do  in  two  3162 ;  ara  reim  sin  957 ; 
ara  ebind  988;  with  assimilation: 
a  roibi  on  which  he  was  967;  govern- 
ing a  clause :  ar  co  tosthsad  leo-sum 
iád  4188. 

(2)  by.  Ar  na  dee  rit  4025,  4407, 
1024;  ar  na  deib  rit  4720;  faistine 
do  denam  do  arin  fisid  1623 ;  ar  na 
dei  rit-su  4785. 

(3)  from.  Ag  iarraid  anacail  ar 
Tbid  Í024;  ag  i.  daib  seig  tre  idbar- 
taib  ar  na  deib  1187,  1875;  3  s.  air 
1047,  1104,  1623;  f-air  1057,  1510; 
is  airi  1623,  5 ;  conadh  aire  sin  4806 ; 
1  pi.  oraindi  567;  3  p.  ortho  648, 
orrtba  Eg.    r.  for. 

ar,  ar  n-  our.  D'  ar  n-eis-ne  2141 ; 
imad  ar  lam  7  ar  n-arm  1007;  fur- 
tacht  ar  carad  1082;  os  ar  cind 
1851 ;  ar  cur  ar  n-áir  1005 ;  rothuit- 
setar  ar  n-airni  1990 ;  re  'r  eatha- 
gad-ni  1977. 

ar  say*.   Ar  se  1005,  4565;  ar  si  4408. 

ár  m.  daughter.  An  cualadais  ar  na 
nGrec  do  chur  do  Tb.  4780,  492; 
ar  cur  ar  n-áir  1006;  ré  har  7  ré 
hoirleach  1272 ;  tucsat  ár  dermháir 
825;  ag  siredh  in  air  4695;  bud 
adbal  na  hair'  857 ;  ba  trengalar  les 
na  hára  2891 ;  ára  aidble  do  chur 
fon  sruth  3608;  0  'dchonnairc  na 
hara  aidbli  4049;  rochuirsed  na 
treinfir  sin  ara  aidbli  4299,  aru  Eg. 

ar,  iar  after.  Sometimes  nasalises  fol- 
lowing tenuis:  art'eis4711;  arcurar 
n-áir  1005 ;  ar  gur  air  almad  1036 ;  ar 
trsethad  7  ar  toirnem  1097 ;  ar  mbreth 
choscair  4500 ;  ar  marbad  aroili  4393 ; 
ar  sin  194,  1918,  4631.    V.  iar. 

ar  m.  ploughing.  Ar  do  denum  67; 
silad  in  air  sin  68;  gan  ar  1929. 

ar  n-uair  (cech  ala  n-uair,  cech  ara 
n-uair)  alternately  4636.    V.  gach. 

ara  m.  fighter  in  chariot,  charioteer 
1382,  2772,  3117.  Rogob  deilb  inn 
arad  fair  2S99 ;  a  laim  a  arad  4390 ; 
doraid  ré  araid  4791;  don  araid 
2897;  co  rob  ed  robean  in  n-araid 


3265;  g.p.  eich  na  n-arad  1798;  ua 
scitha  a  n-eich  7  a  n-araid  2978. 

aradu  f.  (1)  preparation,  condition, 
treatment.  Tuc  in  aradhain  cetna 
fair  56;  (2)  rein.  Fillis  aradna  he 
drew  reins  4416.    Aur. 

araile,  another,  a  certain,  some.  Araile 
fear  225,  2685;  a  ndiaid  aroili  2782; 
rotrenindsaich  each  araile  dib  2807; 
isin  laim  araill  3403;  s.  neut.  ua 
hiat  so  araill  dona  rigaib  709 ;  an 
feacht  araill  977,  1977;  i  cind  aroili 
3175 ;  ar  aroili  4444 ;  dochum  aroile 
4858;  dochum  aroili  4476,  4449; 
trena  'roile  1985 ;  each  d'  aroile  dib 
3068;  rascar  re  'roili  4326;  ré  aroili 
4821;  sech  aroili  2300,  2335;  dar 
araili  2562. 

aráoi  (1)  nevertheless  807,  ar  ái  Eg.; 
815,  821;  7  aras  2486.  (2)  as  re- 
gards.   Arai  n-aisi  2512. 

arapa  nevertheless  918;  arabba  1599. 
Ar  +  apae,  abba  cause.    Str.  Stories. 

arathar  m.  plough.   G.s.  1277. 

ár-bach  (ár-mag)  m.  battlefield.  Conicci 
in  arbach,  armach  Eg.  1905;  d' 
iarraid  in  armaigi  3986;  tré  lár  in 
amiuig  4056;  insaigid  in  armaig 
4687 ;  dochuadar  isin  n-armach4623, 
4678 ;  rafhagbaid  isin  n-armuig  4628, 
int  armach  Eg.    Cym.  aer-fa. 

ar-bithin  (1)  in  order  that.  Arbithin 
nach  helodis  3874.  (2)  on  this  ac- 
count, because  333,  4151,  4584; 
arbithin  na  dianscailed  7  na  dluiged 
3014.  (3)  as  prep,  with  gen.  because 
of.  Arbithin  caradraid  7  cleamnais 
629  ;  arbithin  eiccni  1862.    V.  bithin. 

ar-briste  broken,  shattered  3533. 

Arcaid  f.  Arcadia.  Dar  crichaib  na 
hArcaidi  1176,  1536;  rig  na  hArcaid- 
egda  3977. 

archena  in  general,  the  rest,  the  otliers, 
all  553,  964,  1076,  1450,  I486, 
2220.    V.  cen. 

ár-chú  m.  slaughter-hound  1994. 

ard-chomrath  m.  high  conversation, 
loud  talk.  A  n-ardchomrath  atorra 
4747. 

ardd,  ard  high,  lofty,  noble.  Dobái 
carrag  ard  899;  iter  da  sliab  arda 
898 ;  7  eigis  co  hard  4407 ;  compar. 
ua  hairddi  383, 1471;  ba  hairdi  2495. 

ard-mór  high  and  great.  Ar  muraib 
ardmoraib  an  baili  4453. 

argain,  orcun  f.  slaying,  plundering. 
Ag  argain  1236  ;  d'  argain  2952. 

arisi  aqain  972;  aris  1357,  2361,  2364, 
2460;  aris  2042,  3113;  aridisi  1329 

arm  m.  iceapon.  Ba  rigda  a  arm  fein 
4439  ;  re  himurchur  n-airm  to  carry 


331 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


a  weapon  1381 ;  n.p.  cicl  airm  852 ; 
a  n-airni  (sic  corr.)  949;  comdais 
airm  aithgera  1278;  g.p.  taidleach 
na  n-arm  978 ;  imad  ar  n-arm  1007; 
d.p.  o  'r  n-armaib-ni  854;  dar  ar- 
niaib  1375;  for  a  n-armaib  4445; 
a. p.  rachuir  a  arma  uadh  1067;  a 
n-armu  1368;  roedla  uaid  na  harraa 
4570;  o  nach  fuair-sium  na  harmu 
4571. 

ár-mag  battlefield.  D'  iarraid  in  ar- 
maigi  3986."    V.  ár-bach. 

arm-fogrujrud  m.  sounding  of  weapons. 
Co  n-armfogrugud  1175. 

arnaid  severe,  hard,  cruel,  stern  706, 
1424,  2703,  4080;  m.  veteran  2883. 
C,  P.H. 

arnamárach  on  the  morrow, next  dan  650, 
2257,  3988,  4622 ;  arnabaracb  3005 ; 
arnamaireach  3701.    V.  arnárach. 

ar-óen  toe/ether  772,  3,  1903. 

arrach  bier,  death.  O  raairig  a  arracb 
de  sin  4527.   Arach  .i.  eróchar  O'Cl. 

arrach,  v.  f arrach. 

arrinde  spear-head,  spear-point.  Co 
rue  mili  arrindi  4894.    C. 

arsaidoM, ancient,  veteran.  Ger-uairsid 
3115,  4020;  int  airsid  3297,  4085, 
4306;  int  arsich  2905;  g.s.  i  n-ucht 
in  airseda  sin  3294,  3433;  do  laim 
ind  arsid  2873;  n.p.  airsidi  1493, 
3362;  o  raindsaigset  na  hairsida 
4443;  rohimnaiscid  na  hairsidi  sin 
3068;  airm  na  n-airsed  4507,  3486; 
ar  na  hairsidaib  4519;  compar.  ua 
hairside  1471.    C. 

arsaidecht  f.  old  age,  inveteracy,  ex- 
perience. Eena  harrsaidecht  1542; 
gan  airsideacht  3184.    C. 

arsata  veteran,  old  3768. 

ar-toin,  v.  iartoin. 

asaic,  aisec  restoration.  Ar  n-asaic  474. 
Aisec  P.H.,  aisiog  TSh.    V.  aiscim. 

ásaim  I  grow.  Fut.  rel.  gach  ni  asfas 
dochair  ind  2325;  pret.  3  s.  roas 
2790;  rafhas  4047;  v.  n.  d'  as  1760. 

aslach  inciting,  injunction.  Aslach  uile 
1106;  da  aslach  3020;  tre  t'  aslach 
154,  1180;  tre  aslach  eicni  1501, 
1908;  ar  aslach  a  mathar  fair  4412. 
.i.  furailem  O'Cl. 

aslaicthech  tempting,  alluring  1648. 

aslaigim  I  entice,  induce.  P.p.  rohas- 
laiged  1509. 

asna  a  rib.    A. p.  asnada  1016.    C. 

astad  m.  holding,  detaining.  Ba 
snimach  do  Grecaib  astod  L.  2246 ; 
'ca  n-astad  1844,  2135;  ac  astad  4324; 
tuc  astod  foreigni  2380.   V.  f-astad. 

astaim  7  hold  back,  detain.  Ipf.  3  s. 
with  affixed  pronoun  3  s.  f.  ni  astad- 


us   2362;    pret.    3    s.    roast    2377. 
Enclitic  from  adsuidim, 

astar  journey.    Tré  alius  a  aistir  1094. 

astech  in,  inivards  1112.  Isin  +  tech 
q.v. 

astoidim  I  sparkle,  glitter.  Pret.  3  s. 
astoid  4502.  Ástóidi  ivhich  shines 
Wb.  12b  28. 

at,  att  swelling,  anger  380,  1813. 

atbailim  I  die.  Pret.  3  s.  co  nd- 
erbailt  4912. 

at-berim  /  say.  Pres.  2  p.  is  fir  a  n- 
abraid  2924;  ipv.  2  s.  abair  ria  3847, 
3850,  4792;  fut.  subj.  1  s.  each  ni 
ader-sa  rib  4146;  pret.  3  s.  atbert 
3579;  asbert  4332,  4668;  is  ed  isbert 
fris4779;  a  n-ebairt  2179,  4786;  co 
n-ebairt  2764;  7  adbert  2969,  3461; 
is  cunia  adbert-som  3413;  pf.  3  s. 
adubairt847,  1019;  adrubairt  1629, 
1631,  1807;  3  p.  adrubradar  4787; 
p.  pres.  tri  mna  aderar  do  beith  1319 ; 
is  ris  atberur  U.  4802;  p.  ipf.  3  s. 
riu  seig  aderthái  1293. 

atchis,  v.  faitches. 

at-cluinim,  v.  ad-cluinim. 

áth  ford.  Isin  n-ath  2726;  atha  in 
aeoir  1218;  i  nn-athaib  3512. 

athach  a  while,  space  of  time.    Ke  hed     -^ 
7  re  hathaig  2871.    C. 

Athain  f.  Athens.  Sluaig  athlama 
echtacha  na  h Athaine  4850 ;  oirechta 
na  hAithine  4899,  4870;  rig  na  n- 
Aithininnsta  Athenians  4643. 

athairni.  father.  Athair  an  oireachais 
1140;  aisgedaig  a  athar  975,  1346, 
1691 ;  ag  gresacht  a  athar  3600 ;  don 
athair  1074;  v.  s.  a  athair  inmain 
1889,  1902;  delba  a  n-athar  7  a 
senathar  2273;  ac  admolad  a  n- 
engnuma  a  n-aithrech  2992;  amal 
romarbsad  a  n-aithrecha  2052. 

athair-thir  fatherla  nd  123 . 

athais  f.  reproach,  reviling.  Can 
athais  engnumach,  3224, 1032, 1579 ; 
athis  1329;  ilacha  aithise  4044; 
rogab  for  athisib  bhriathar  4371; 
tuc  Oirc  athais  mor  2948;  can  athais 
engnumach  do  digail  ar  na  Grecaib 
3224.    Wi.    V.  athisigim. 

atharda  f.  (1)  fatherland,  patrimony.  Y 
Caithim  a  n-atharda  145;  n.s.  1138, 
1779;  có  m'  atharda  3310;  dar  eis 
m'  atharda  2104;  dar  cend  t' 
atharda  4168;  ar  grad  na  hatharrda 
2859;  isin  n-atharda-sa  4373;  con- 
cindet  oenatharda  1618;  v.s.  a 
atharda  na  rig  4423.  (2)  m.  fellow- 
countrymen.  Ar  socar  d'  fadbail  da 
athardaib  4170. 

atharrach  change  4895. 


332 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


ath-buailim  I  strike  again.  Tret.  3  s. 
roathbuail  3585. 

ath-chnáite  wasted,  worn  out.  Ath- 
cnaiti  1277;  p.p.p.  of  ath-cnáim 
I  gnaw  again. 

ath-chuirim  (1)  I  throw  back  again, 
exchange,  banish.  Pret.  3  s.  ath- 
ehuiris  4501,  4882;  pf.  3  s.  raath- 
chuir  261;  roathchuir  2495;  p.p. 
intan  rohathchuired  asa  deacbt  e 
2319.  {2)  I  exchange.  V.n.  rehimud 
na  n-urchur  aca  n-athchur  eturru 
3085. 

atli-cliummaim  (ath-com-be)  I  wound, 
sever.  V.  n.  atbeumad  g.  athchum- 
tba  3430. 

athcumscaigim  I  shake  again  or  vio- 
lently.   V.  n.  atbeumscugad  1285. 

ath-gairid  a  short-cut.  Ar  a.  eolais 
4617;  ar  a.  na  conairi  2355. 

ath-g]uasacht  a  second  movement, 
moving  again,  disturbing.  'Can  ath- 
gluasacbt  4852. 

atb-gTesaim  I  urge  again,  strongly 
impel.  Pret.  3s.  roathgres  3460.  C.C. 

atbisiglm  I  reproach,  revile.   Cen  no 

gor-batbisiged   119;    nocor-haithis- 

gedb  Eg.;  v.  n.  ac  aithisiugud  3806. 

V.    ath-laime  f.  dexterity.    Ke  batblaime 

a  n-inggabala  4477. 

Athlaint  f.  Atalanta.  Easbaid  Ath- 
lainti  4644. 
■  athlom,  ath-lam  active,  dexterous, 
fleet.  Daescursluag  athlam  4870; 
ua  bathlum  2448;  co  nar-b  atblam 
4050;  do  I.  athlom  2447;  fer  ath- 
lom 2558;  co  bathlam  4319,  4465, 
4848;  ger-ua  athlom  n-engnoma 
2512;  cohathlumopund2584,  3788, 
4755;  p.  athloma  2702;  athluma 
1468;  sluaig athlama 4849, 3249.  C.C. 

ath-nuigim  I  renew,  revive.  Pret.  3  s. 
is  e  roatnuighsit  na  dei  4809;  pass, 
ipv.  3  p.  athnuithter  459. 

ath-scis  fatigue,  languor,  dejection. 
Tanig  atbscis  mor  1033 ;  re  hathscis 
3001. 

ath-scith  languid,  wearied.  A.  n- 
engnuma  3815. 

ath-sillnn  I  look  back.  Pret.  3  s. 
rathsill  4011. 

atmar  swelling,  swollen.  Iumad  na 
feóla  atmairi  proud  flesh  1155;  id- 
barta  atmara  339. 

atracbt-us  I  have  arisen.  Pf.  3  p. 
atrachtatar-sidhi  812.    V.  éirgim. 

aue,  oa,  ua,  o,  u  m.  grandson.  In 
faicend  tu  ua  do  N.  (nepos)  2657; 
ar  marbad  m'  ua-sa  3613;  ar  lartn- 
dergud  a  ua  636 ;  dot  ua  3604 ;  iter 
a  uib583;  d'  aiub  1698. 


bacur  threat  1439,  bagur  Eg.    C.C.  X 

badb,  bodb  f.  scald,  war-goddess.  In 
badb  catha  1365;  roerig  an  badb 
4313,  4336;  roathgres  in  badb  sin  he 
3460;  dobai  an  bodb  aga  buadread 
4348;  g.s.  na  baidbi  193,  1369;  re 
guth  na  baidbi  3452;  i  nndiaid  na 
baidbi  3464;  d.s.  tanac-sa  im  baidb 
1899;  n.p.  tangadar  badba  1875, 
3018;  roscailid  badba  2741 ;  tre  gres- 
acht  na  mbadb  sin  oru  3024.   V.  fadb. 

badb-cháintecb  war-plaintful,  wildly 
trailing  2203;  tangadar  mna  buaid- 
irthi  badbchasintecha  4777. 

badbda,  bodba  fierce,  deadly,  fatal. 
Badba  2279,  3247,  3401,  4124. 

badb-luatb  scald-swift  1941. 

bad-brisiud  m.  sea-breaking,  icrecking 
308 ;  eo  na  leiced  a  badbrisiud  2005. 
Bada  .i.  niuir  C. 

báegul  (1)  danger,  (2)  opportunity, 
chance.   O  tharraid  bsegal  gona  3099. 

báetb  rude,  foolish,  reckless  1241;  is 
beeth  banda  2850 ;  tanic  ar  n-aicned 
boetb  1990 ;  co  baeth  3208. 

bágacb  warlike  1537,  3122. 

Baicb  m.  Bacchus.  Dei  fortochta  T.  in 
Baich  sin  3700;  do  muintir  Baicb 
3699. 

Baicbecda  Bacchic  252. 

báid  (1)  liking,  love,  affection.  Acht 
bar  mbaid  2710;  ar  in  mbaid  mbu- 
naid  4660;  (2)  loving,  affectionate. 
Co  bnidh  3594. 

báidim  I  drown.  2  fat.  1  s.  rabaith- 
find-si  1071;  p.  ipv.  3  p.  batar  na  tenti 
573 ;  p.p.  robaided  3545 ;  robaidhedh 
801;  rabaided  1532;  p.p-p.  lanbaiti 
3535;  v.  n.  roleig  a  badud  3543; 
do  bhádhud  803 ;  do  bathadb  1245. 

bail  place.  An  bail  where  3590,  4856; 
am  bail  3682 ;  assa  bail  robui  3499 ; 
conici  an  bail  a  mboi  3591. 

baile  strong,  stout.  Kathairring  a  clai- 
deam  mbaile  mbeoda  974;  compar. 
bailci  394.    C. 

bailc-beóda  strong  and  lively  386,  923. 

bailee  f.  strength.    Gan  bailci  3185. 

baile  m.  town,  place.  A  mullach  in 
baili  1856,  2232;  ac  lucht  in  baile 
2206;  co lamiedonanbaili4171, 4762; 
tar  mur  in  baili  4832 ;  ac  buaidred 
in  baili  1855,  1905;  isin  baili  1902, 
4757;  rotinoil  in  baili  1856;  rohia- 
dad  an  baili  4091 ;  rofacbaid  baileda 
gen  brugudu  3049 ;  baili  i  n-  where. 
Baili  i  teit  in  mur  1917. 

bainnsiugud  m.  marrying,  wedding, 
giving  in  marriage.  Bansigud  720, 
bainnsiugud  Eg.  Bainnsiugud  con- 
secration of  Bishop,  A.U.  1449. 


333 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


bairgen  f.  bread,  loaf  467.   L.  farrago. 
báise  f.   folly,  play,     Birán  bunsaigi 

baisi  3213;  buaidrecl  baisi  3754. 
báith-cheileabar  m.  foolish  warbling, 

chirping.     Risna    baithcbeileabraib 

846.    McB. 
balb  stammering,  stuttering, -silent.  Eo- 

bad  balb  101'2;  comabalbanabriatbra 

3368;  toratbair  balba  1612.   Fel.z 
ball-brec     having     variegated     spots, 

speckled.   Ba  bradanaib  becca  ball- 

breca  3520. 
ball-gel    having    white    limbs,    white- 
limbed.    A  baincbeili  baillgeal  ban- 

amail  1148. 
ballsam balsam,  balm  2212,  balsaim  Eg. 

C. 
ban  wliite,  pale,  pallid  1776;  equative: 

ba  baine  linscoit  480;  m.  blank  space 

p.  xv. 
bánaim  I  turn  pale,  make  pale,  blanch. 

Bobanaid  gnuisi  2826;  robanad  imi 

3365. 
banais,  ban-fbeis  f.  wedding -feast.   Ac 

onorugud  baindsi  737;    a  cumdacb 

brigacb  bandsi  791 ;  n.p.  bandsi  703 ; 

dona  bandsib  740 ;  ar  bansib  945. 
bananiail  womanly,  tender  1991,  3594; 

briathra  ban  da  banamla  4415 ;  batar- 

sum    banamla    730;     buidne    bitbi 

banamla  2228. 
ban-chéile  f.  wife.   Bancbele  754,  770, 

1419,  1503,  Í648,  4335;  bain-cbeili 

1148,    4645;    bancbeli   1688,    2202, 

2246,  4332;  ragab  deilb  a  bancbeili 

fuirri  4327. 
ban-chométaid     f.    female    guardian, 

governess  476. 
ban-cbumacntacbf  .powerful  lady  1877, 

4250;    rochuir  bancbumachtaig  da 

muintir  3899;   imthusa  Beniri  ban- 

cbumacbtaigi  1046. 
ban-cmimal  i.  female  slave.    Tuc  ban- 

cbumail  ndaeir  do  seic  2421. 
banda»  effort,  deed,  law, movement,  d.s. 

bund  p.  xvi.    O'Cl. 
'  banda/eroaZe,  womanly.  Is  bastb  banda 

2850;  na  briatbra  banda  4415. 
bau-dál  f.  woman -tryst,  meeting  of  wo- 
men, women.    Dala  uanndala  3892. 

T.TA 
bandama,    ban-náma   f.    female  foe, 

enemy  2110. 
ban-dea  f.  goddess  151,  1040;    bandei 

1839,  4485  ;  a  n-onoir  na  bande  Terra 

3013;  'ma  cend  na  bandei  3334 ;  voc. 

a  bandei 1767;  ar  bande  4692;  n.p. 

bandéi  1743 ;  rogreis  I.  bandei  4696 ; 

rotbinoil  na  buili  dee  7  bandee  1054 ; 

do  bandeib  3197. 
ban-gaiscedacb  fema le  warrior  354. 


ban-lennan  f.  female  lover  354,  do  len- 
?ia)i  bangaiscedaig  Eg. 

banne  f.  a  drop,  later  milk.  Ni  fuara- 
dar  bandi  usqui  1759. 

ban-selgaire  f.  huntress.  An  mac  sin 
Atbalanta  na  banselgaire  1584;  isarn 
banselcairi-si  3705. 

ban-shacart  f.  priestess,  .i.  bansacart 
3699;  rolabair  in  bansbacart  1655; 
bansacart  digair  1614. 

ban-tracbt  m.  women-folk,  women.  A 
bandtracbt  gruadglan  4653 ;  adchua- 
ladar  banntracbt  na  nGrec  4633; 
imtusa  an  bantracbta  4917,  3892; 
7  bantracbta  buaidirtbi  2202;  do 
bantracbtaib  borrf  adacba  4659.  A  call. 

bar,  bar  n-  your:  tbe  nasal  is  assimi- 
lated by  tenues  and  nasals  but  eclipses 
mediae  2459,  3878,  3918,  4075;  ag 
fegad  bar  comraig  7  bar  comlaind 
4395;  uar  fir  1859,  1866;  uar  ficb  7 
uar  ngliaid  2136,  7;  is  ma  cbin  da 
bar  n-atbair  4393;  dochum  bar  na- 
mad  1121;  do  uar  munter-si  1827; 
gabaid  bar  n-arma  1112;  marbaid 
uar  firu  1858;  bid-si  an  bar  tocbt 
1133;  bar  caingni  1141;  daingniged 
bar  crideada  1857 ;  ar  bar  ngrád  fein 
1313;  'ca  bar  toirmesc  1326;  na 
cathid  uar  seoid  na  bar  n-indmasa 
2236 ;  ac  cosnum  uar  catbracb  7  uar 
tiri  2712. 

bar=/or,  corrupted  by  analogy  of  bar 
your.  7  se  bar  eocb  3116  =  Ipbis 
eques  Theb.  vni.  447 ;  bar  in  fer  3142. 

barann  f.  anger,  strife  380;  tuc  in 
gressacht  sin  brig  7  baraind  n-adbail 
3225. 

barr  m.  top,  point.  Ban  a  tengad 
1863 ;  do  barr  an  bile  3638 ;  ar  barr 
uacbtaracb  na  lasrach  4142. 

barraen   horse  (?),   broken   wave  1965. 

crru.  p.  xix,  183. 

barr-glan  having  a  bright  crop,  bright- 
piled,  glossy-haired.  Craicend  leo- 
main  barrgloin  446 ;  do  luibib  barr- 
glana  2211. 

barr-glas  having  green  top  2810. 

barrin  mitre.   B.  aloind  oengel  1514. 

barr-lom  having  a  bare  top.  Dair  barr- 
lom  2310. 

bas  f.  palm  of  the  hand.  Bobuailsetar 
basa  leo  2253. 

bás  m.  death.  Ger-ba  bas  tra  cricb 
cacb  curad  dib  sin  3545 ;  co  fuair  bas 
that  he  died  3337,  4033,  4123;  co 
fbuair  bass  4282,  4544,  9,  4554;  co 
fuaradarbás  955;  airdena  bais  3309, 
3322;  bas  d'  fbagbail  to  die  2519, 
3635;  bass  d'  fadbail  4746;  conid 
cuma  leis  bas  7  betbad'  fagbail  4019. 


334 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


bathais  f.  crown  of  the  head.   0  bond 
co  bathais  1487. 
•    bathfad    frog.     Bathfadh    Eg.    3035; 
loiscenci  E.;  bathfad  3037  E. 

bé  f.  toman,  wife.  In  bé  Néit  3247; 
raehnthanbéÍS"eíd4447.  Wi.;  Me.tr. 
207;  Aur.  5395. 

bee  small,  little.  Biaid  do  mac  becc 
4707;  is  bee  na  rosrainit  asa  slud- 
raigib  tigi  na  T.  (it  is  little  that... 
not = almost)  the  houses  of  Thebes  were 
almost  dragged  from  their  founda- 
tions 3021 ;  isin  n-uair  bice  sin  4476; 
maccaim  beca  -1372;  robega  2265; 
ba  bradanaib  becca  3520;  compar. 
ger  ua  lugu  2565;  nir-ba  lugu  3152; 
nir  luga  snim  4640,  4;  nir  lugha 
toirsi  3688 ;  ger-ba  lugu  d'  ais  though 
he  was  younger  393;  nir-ba  luga  na 
bara<3952;  with  -de,  lugai-de  the  less. 
Ba  lughaide  a  nguba  3342;  comad 
lugaiti  721,  1947. 

becán  in.  a  little,  a  few.  Roetla  in  bec- 
an  bethad  3242,  3336;  becan  da 
maithib  uodein  1895. 

béim  stroke,  blow  605;  rus-bean  bem 
da  heirr  2074 ;  ni  teiged  bem  i  ndilsi 
2527;  beim  claidim  do  thabairt  dó 
3962,  4021;  da  beimindaib  claidim 
4209. 

beith  v.n.  of  táim  q.v. 

bél  m.  mouth.  Co  tarla  'na  bél  it  went 
into  his  mouth  1010;  tara  bel  7  dara 
sroin  2414;  p.  xv. 

bél-chorcur  having  crimson  Ujjs  730. 

bél-derg  red-mouthed,  red-lipped  1369; 
badba  bellderga  1875,  194,  2742, 
3018.    C.G.,  The. 

bém-claideb  sword-stroke.  Tuc  b.  2786, 
3440;  beim  claidib  3539;  b.-ceast 
p.  xvii. 

ben  f.  (1)  woman  507,  1321,  2;  caide 
in  bean  2124;  re  mnai  2687;  am 
mathair  mna  damsa  3784;  adchon- 
cadar  mnai  1762;  robai  'na  mnai 
1625,  1631;  do  mnui  2235;  n.p. 
mna  741,  833,  1525,  1824,  1874, 
3243,  3749,  4290;  mná  4665;  ac 
faicinn  na  mban  sin  1881,  4652 ;  ider 
og  7  shen,  mnaib  7  mindainib  4214; 
re  mnaib  aili  2033 ;  ac  mnaib  1869  ; 
do  mnaib  2121,  4440;  risna  mnaib 
4669 ;  dona  mnaib  sin  4648. 

(2)  Wife  520,  2 ;  cona  fagadhais  a 
mna  7  mic  7  mindaine  1267;  do 
mnai  P.  2954;  co  mmnai  1571. 

benaim  I  strike,  heat,  pluck,  with  ri 
touch,  attack  2876 ;  pret.  1  s.robeanus 
174;  3  s.  robean  137,  1632,  1863; 
cor-bean  926,  2889;  eor-ben  3187, 
4889,  4893;  roben  2916,  3107,  3215; 


eor-ben  i  cind  3433 ;  eor-ben  (sic 
corr.)  925;  i  n-ucht  3293;  roben  ant 
sleg  aisti  3553 ;  dobean  3759,  4684 ; 
doben  ria  784;  rus-bean  2074;  3  p. 
robensat  824;  robeansad  ria  2876; 
ipf.  3  s.  ni  benad  3220;  ipf.  subj. 
3  s.  co  mbiad  985 ;  ipv.  na  benad  do 
chol  rind  4590;  p.p.  robenad  1898. 

bend,  benn  peak,  point.  Com  mbean- 
daib  200. 

bendach  homed.   Bó  bendaeh  36. 

bendachad  m.  act  of  blessing.  Ac  be- 
andochad  inn  usci  1805. 

bend-chaem  ho  ring  beautiful  tip.  Bog- 
ada  bendchsema  1566. 

bend-chrúaid  having  a  hard  tip.  A 
bogadaib  buidi  beandchruaidi  1476. 

bennacht  f.  blessing.  7  bennacht  ort 
4395. 

benn-fhata  having  a  long  prow  1941. 

béo  alive,  living.  Cein  ba  beo  3474; 
beith  beo  3978 ;  gid'  mad  béo  1012 ; 
do  beith-siu  bio  1026 ;  ger-ba  beo 
'na  diaid  3188 ;  ni  biu-sa  beo  tar  th' 
eis  3390. 

beóda  lively.  Gilla  oc  setidach  beoda 
527;  a  buidne  beoda  1537;  da  mac 
beoda  2000 ;  in  macaem  beoda  3157 ; 
a  claideam  mbaile  mheoda  974 ;  ma 
secht  rigaib  robeoda  2252. 

beódacht  f.  liveliness.  7  bar  beodacht 
fen  2711 ;  g.s.  bedga  beodachta  1539 ; 
dalb  aisi  beodachta  3571. 

beóg-da  lively  994. 

berbaim  I  boil,  seethe.  V.  n.  arna  bear- 
bad  1572. 

berim  (1)  I  hear:  Bel.  pres.  3  s.  beris 
3970,  4424 ;  ipf.  subj .  3  p.  co  mbertais 
3467  ;  no  co  mbertis  3518  ;  ipv.  2  s. 
ber-si  4321,  4897;  ber-siu2928;  ber 
let  1917;  beir  let  3849;  2  p.  berid 
1119;  fut.  2  p.  ni  berthai  2793;  pf. 
1  s.  rucus  1059;  rucus-sa -2035; 
rucas-sa  3178;  1  p.  rucsamar  3966, 
8  ;  3  p.  rugsad  4901 ;  p.p.  3  s.  rugad 
1288,  4831 ;  3  p.  rugaid  4750 ;  cen  co 
rucait  clanda  2034;  pret.  3  s.  a  mbreth 
leis  do  chrud  3652;  3p.  cosa  mberthea 
710;  v.  n.  f.  do  breith  4399,  1029; 
da  breith  2153,  2409 ;  do  brith  do  T. 
3454;  perfective  subj.  3  s.  muna 
rucadh  833;  fut.  an  mberam  1214. 

(2)  berim  air  I  overtake,  catch,  get 
hold  of.  Pf.  3  s.  rug  Tit  air  1023; 
no  co  rue  forra  4000;  p.  fut.  3  s.  da 
mbertar  oraind  1903;  p.p.  rugaid 
4750;  v.  n.  f .  brith  arna  halltaib  2433. 

berin  small  spit,  crest.  Birinib  200, 
berinib  Eg.    V.  birin. 

bern  f.  breach,  gap.  Robris  each  airech 
bernd  2813. 


335 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


[xí^/^J^ 


berna  breach,  gap.  D.s.  ar  an  mber- 
naid  934;  tie  berna  a  luirigi  4893. 

bertaigim  I  brandish.  Pret.  3  s.  dober- 
taig  919;  bertaigis  4498;  bertnaigis 
4878. 

bés  perchance  4661. 

bés  m.  custom  742,  2218;  amal  ba  bes 
accu-sum  2255,  2383. 

bethu  f.  life  794;  bas  7  betha  d'  fag- 
bail  4019 ;  g.s.  in  becan  betbad  3242, 
3336;  d.s.  'na  bethaid  800;  ad  be- 
thaid  1030,  4031. 

bibsugud  m.  sipping,  imbibing  720. 
From  bibsach  bibulous.    C. 

bidba,  bibdu  m.  criminal,  culprit, 
enemy.  N.p.  cur-a  bidbaid  4001; 
g.p.  buidni  bidbad  2143;  ar  urchar- 
aib  a  bidbad  2903 ;  rogob  robur 
roecla  a  bidbadu  reimi  3254 ;  dingeb- 
araaid-ne  do  bidbaid  dit  4369;  cor- 
bá  buaidred  da  bidbadaib  4828.    C. 

bide,  bidg  a  spring,  start.  N.p.  bedga 
1539.    Tbc. 

bile  rim,  edge,  lip.  Iter  bili  in  sceith 
3188,  bile  Eg.;  sech  bili  in  sceith 
3293 ;  o  bili  co  bord  4276 ;  cor-ben  a 
mbili  n-uachtaracb  a  sceith  4889. 

bile  m.  old  tree.  Doui  b.  dossach  3636 ; 
do  barranbile  7  rotoit  an  bile  3638.  C. 

bilech  large-stemmed.  Billeach  2809; 
do  shleig  uillig  3823.    V.  uillech.    C. 

bindius  m.  melody.  Nir-fhogain  a  bin- 
nius  do-sin  3955;  dei  in  bindisa  2676; 
do  bandeib  in  bindiusa  3197. 

bir  a  spit,  spear.  In  birbodba  sin  that 
spear  shaft  4502,  2818  ;  n.p.  bera  538, 
1566,  1954,  1983,  3086.    C.  L.  vera. 

bir-cluasacb  ha  ring  pricked  cars  2279. 

birin  m.  spit,  sting.  Birán  3213  ;  birin- 
ib  200.    V.  berin. 

bith  m.  the  world,  age.  Timcheall  an 
betha  4471;  cetlong  in  betha  1941, 
2812  ;  tre  bithu  for  ever  1761,  2780; 
bith-  ever ;  bith-alaind  ever  so  beauti- 
ful 36. 

bithe  female,  feminine.  Buidni  bithi 
2228. 

bithin,  tre  bithin  through,  because  of 
784;  is  trena  bithin  sin  787,  4149. 
V.  ar-bithin. 

blad  fame,  renown.  Can  mo  bladh  7 
can  mo  mornert  do  thogail  4061.    C. 

bláith smooth,  gentle.  Bogablaithi  1401. 

bledmil  m.  monster,  whale.  Amal 
bleidmil  moradbul  3519.    C.C. 

bliadain  f.  a  year.  Bliadna  robai-sium 
'na  mnai  for  a  year  1625 ;  ag  cind 
bliadna  828;  cairde  bliadna  815; 
can  rigi  na  bliadna-sa  864;  risin 
mbliadain  sin  817 ;  tri  bliadna  1363 ; 
ri  re  tri  mbliadan  1859. 


bó  f.  cow.    Do  buaib  2271. 
bocásacb  f.   (1)    haughtiness,  self-com- 
placency,   boasting.      Ac    bocasaich 

2569,  3662;  ag  an  bogasach  briathar 

sin  4274.    (2)  haughty.    Na  briathra 

bocasaich  2850.    C. 
bocc-bertaigim  I  shake  and  brandish. 

Koboccbertaich-sinm     3262,     2848, 

3671.    C.C. 
bodar  deaf,  confused.    Tre  chiachaib 

bodra  597. 
bodéin  self.  Da  marbad  bodein  4569;  do 

bunadcineoil  bodein  4786,  857,  4883; 

uodein  1895,  7;  uadein  1896,  2032; 

ni  mo  na  Ioib  badein  3387;    ar  A. 

badesin  2950;  a  taeib  bodeisin  4523. 

I'.  féin,  fodéin. 
boga    m.    bow.     N.s.    1551,    2497;    a 

henuogha  3770;  n.p.  bogada  1565; 

boga  blaithi  1401;  d.p.  a  bogadaib 

1476;  for  bogadaib  1276.    C. 
boladmar  fragrant.     Do   luibib    barr- 

glana  bolathmara  2211. 
bole,  bolg  m.  bag,  sack,  quiver.    Coma 

a  haonuolc  no  a  henuogha  doteilc- 

thea  na  saitheda  soighed  3770. 
bond  m.  sole  of  the  foot.     O  bond  co 

bathais  1487 ;  o  chind  co  bond  3365, 

4277. 
bord  m.  (1)  border,  bank.  O  bili  co  bord 

4276;  co  rrobris  a  buird  3621;  dar 

bordaibh  3616.   (2)  plank.  Koclaenad 

each  mbord  1995. 
borrfad  m.  swelling,  anger,  fierceness, 

pride  380,  469,  629,  1813. '  C. 
borrfadach  fierce,  proud  1302,  3157, 

3208,    4250,   4659;    da  mac   beoda 

borrfadecha  2000. 
bráen,  bróen  m.  drop,  shower.   7  broen 

fola  2308;    co  mbreenaib  fola   414, 

2914. 
bráenachí/í'i'^iíir/.  Bresbreenach  2809. 
bráge  m.  the  neck.   A  lama  ima  bra- 

gaid   1893 ;    ima  bragait   755 ;    'ma 

braigid  4095;  'na  braigid  1011;  dar 

bragaid275;  ar  braigid  a  cheli  1242. 
braise,  brasse  f.  talking  bin,  boasting 

2569.    C. 
braithim  I  betray.    Fut.  1  s.  braithfet 

1505;    ipf.    subj.    2    s.    da   mbraite 

4029.   P.H.    Denom.  of  brath. 
bráitbremailfo/(.si'.síúi;/o/^roí/(erí3122. 
bras  (1)  great,  big.    (2)  quick,  sharp, 

strident.    Fogur  bras  a  gotha  2011. 
brat m. garment,  mantle.  Isin  brut  csem 

corrtharach  2437;  broit  garba  1528. 
bratán   m.    a    salmon,  fish.     Ba   bra- 

danaib  becca  3520. 
brath    m.    betraying,    betrayal.     Dam 

brath   2953 ;   7   a  ndei  'gar  mbrath 

2971.    V.  n.  of  mairnim. 


336 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


bráth  m.  judgment.  An  la  baaidirthi 
bratba  4232 ;  bresmadmanda  biutha 
1851,  2939;  mar  bad  he  in  la  bratba 
2811 ;  co  bratb /or  ever  1012. 

bráthair,  bráitblr  m.  brother  1013; 
tre  bratbair  1017 ;  ag  fegan  brathar 
1019,  1134;  n.p.  connod  bratbair  iad 
2684 ;  ar  mic-ne  7  ar  mbraitbri  4374  ; 
im  dail  a  mbraithrecb  3229 ;  cborp 
a  braitbreeh  4716, 4714 ;  dias  brathar 
3120-1 ;  iter  mo  braithrib  3232. 

bráth-briste  fa  tall  1/  broken  4208. 

bráth-buille  a  lethal  blow.  O  bratb- 
bnilleadaib  mora  2531 ;  o  brathbuil- 
lib  mera  2884. 

bráth-lorg  f.  lethal  club  1003. 

bréc  f.  lie,  falsehood.  Is  breg  uili  cacb 
ni  raidis  T.  4173  ;  roppa  bree  1629. 

brécaim  /  lie,  deceive,  soothe.  V.  n. 
robai  ac  brecad  na  naidean  1784. 

brec-dhuilech  lie-desirous,  lie-desiring 
2812;  sir-duilecb  very  desirous, 
eager.    C.C. 

brecntnaigthe  variegated.  Il-brecht- 
naigtbi  588. 

brechtugud  m.  varying,  variety.  Co 
n-ilbr.  4S7. 

brec-pupall  speckled  tent.  Ee  doirrsib 
a  mbrecpupall  2739. 

bréit  kerchief.  Ina  breit  1864,  breidin 
Eg. 

bréntatu  m.  stench.  Ba  farrach  daib 
re  fulang  an  brentatu  4851,  bren- 
tusa  Eg.    C. 

bréntum.  stench.  Adcluinim  brentada 
4677. 

bres  great.  Fogur  bres  2607,  3995, 
4820;  torand  bres  4266,  4741. 

bres-bráenach  great-dripping  2809. 

bres-brátha  of  great  doom,  doom- 
crashing.  Torand  bres  bresbratba 
4266. 

bresmadmandach  uproarious,  crashing 
274. 

bres-maidm  great  burst,  crash  204, 
739,  1336,  3078;  g.s.  re  becla  in 
bresmadmanda  2939,  na  mbresmad- 
manda  Eg. ;  a. p.  bresmadmanda 
1850.    C. 

bres-mandugud  m.  crashing  292. 

bretheni  m.  judge.  Adcbiu  breitbea- 
main  ecerta  1661. 

briathar  f.  word.  Doberim  mo  breithir 
1027;  n.p.  briatbra  675,  1066,2105, 
2677,  3368,  4610;  g.p.  risna  baitb- 
ebeileabraib  briathar  846 ;  o  briatb- 
raib  ailgenaib  3180;  ar  briatbraib 
na  bingine  4606. 

bricht  «  charm,  spell,  incantation.  Ar 
cur  breacbta  druad  fair  2725.  C, 
Wi. 


brig  f.  power,  force,  virtue,  meaning. 
Ita  brig  380,  629,  1813,  3225.    C. 

brigach powerful,  substantial.  Brigacb 
791,  1302,  4250. 

brig-urdairc  intent-revealing  2812. 

brisim  I  break.  Pres.  3  s.  robrisit  288 ; 
pret.  3  s.  robris  2813;  cor-dianbris 
3675 ;  robris  a  srian  4503,  2381 ;  cor- 
bris  4009 ;  co  rrobris  a  buird  3621 ; 
p.ipf.  3  p.  co  rnbreisdis  286;  p.p.  o 
robrisead  2382;  p. p. p.  coma  bristi 
1801 ;  co  roibi  bristi  2394 ;  co  bristi 
952;  sluaig  bristi  964 ;  v.n.  acbrisiud 
292,  1786;  ac  brisead  938. 

brogad  m.  advancing,  increasing,  ex- 
ecs*, vehemence  1813.  Mrogaim  Wi., 
G. 

brón  m.  sorrow.  Comartba  broin  1222 ; 
mar  cbomartbai  mbroin  2241. 

brú  f.  belly,  womb.   Asa  broind  1722. 

brú  bank,  border,  edge.  Ar  bru  srotba 
506,  597,  1389. 

brúach  bank,  edge,  border.  I  mbruacb 
na  haband  3538 ;  no  co  ranic  an 
bruacb  3594 ;  co  bruacb  srotba  1607 ; 
on  bruach  co  raill  3534;  n.p.  na 
bruaichi  1801 ;  co  rrobris  a  bruacba 
3621 ;  o  bruicbib  srotba  1441 ;  os 
bruacbaib  3636 ;  dar  bruacbaib  3616. 
C. 

brugaid  m.  landlord,  yeoman,  hos- 
pitaller.    Gen  brugudu  3049.    C. 

brúidide  brute,  brutal.  N.p.  bruididi 
1612. 

bruig,  mruig  (1)  cultivated  land,  farm. 
Arna  bruigib  1812 ;  da  bruigib  250, 
1089;  leigid  dam-sa  bruigi  cairr- 
geacha  cumga  na  T.  835.  (2)  farm- 
house, abode.  Cosna  bruigib  ailli 
699. 

bruinne  breast,  bosom.  7  a  bruinde 
taitnemacb  tarmocht  4386;  re 
bruinne  bais  4552 ;  fa  bruindib  3242. 

brúth  heat,  ardour,  fervour  380,  469, 
1840,  1854. 

brúthach />/•(/,  glowing  274.    Wi. 

brúthmar  fiery,  fu  riotts  193,  252,  1368, 
3018. 

brútnnaigthech  boiling,  seething, 
furious  994.    Brutbmaigim  C. 

búachaill  m.  f.  cowherd,  herdsman  510. 

buadertha  troubled,  disturbed  1899; 
buadirthi  1776,  3368.  V.  búaidrim. 
C. 

búadnas  exultation,  boasting.  Ac  b. 
3662.    C.C. 

búaid  n.  victory.  Ba  buaid  ngaiscid 
ris  3477;  rotreic  a  buaid  comretba 
2385;  ar  mbreitb  buada  826,  2388; 
log  a  rnbuada  2465;  ar  buaid  na 
coimlenga  2409. 


/ 


337 


22 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


buaid-choscair  sjwil  of  victory,  vie- 
torious  sjwil.    Ar  nib.  catba  4659. 

búaidred  m.  troubling,  disturbing, 
confusing.  Is  doilig  Hum  an  buaid- 
red 3753;  eor-ba  b.  4828,  739;  ac 
buaidred  1855;  aga  buadread  4348; 
da  mbuaidred-sum  1876;  'ga  b.  308. 
P.H.,  C.C. 

búaidrim  /  vex,  disturb.  Robuaidir 
3529,  4336;  ipf.  3  s.  dom-buaidread 
1352;  p.p.  robuaidrid  a  menmanda 
1149;  p. p. p.  co  bristi  buaidirthi  952, 
3140;  sluaig  b.  964,  2741,  4124, 
4232,  4776;  bana  buadirthi  1776; 
irn  baidb  buaidertha  1899,  3130; 
buaidirtha  3078 ;  ba  buaidirthi  4642 ; 
v.  n.  buadrad  4348;  cor-ba  buaidred 
4828 ;  do  buaidred  2457 ;  buaidirthi 
4677,  4851.    C. 

buaigelta  cow-protecting,  bucolic,  cow- 
herd 1372,  buaidhghela  ffower -white 
Eg.  ;buaidealta/i«  vingw  hiteq  ualities 
1241,  buaigealta  Eg.;  búageltach 
m.  cowherd,  protector.  Amhail  fear 
baoise  nó  buain-ghealtachta  like  a 
man  of  folly  or  settled  madness,  TSh. 
166.    C. ;  O'C.  On  the  Mann. 

búailim  I  strike.  Ipf.  3  p.  co  mbuailtis 
3631;  ipv.  2  s.  na  buail  2285;  pret. 
3  s.  trenbuailis  4529;  robuail-sium 
7  roathbuail  3585;  3  p.  co  rotren- 
buailsit  3628;  robuailsetar  2253; 
v.  n.  ac  bualadh  a  hochta  3588. 

buain  f .  (1)  breaking,  striking ,  plucking , 
reaping.  Ag  buain  1018,  4115;  do 
buain  4545 ;  gan  buain  1929 ;  gan  a 
buain  2527;  arná  buain  dameidhe  818. 
(2)  With  ritouching.  Can  ole  do  buain 
rium 4032 ;  buain  ris  1428, 3635, 4821. 

buan  lasting,  durable.  Cor-ba  rod 
robuan  48Í7. 

buden,  buiden  f.  band,  troop.  Ag 
siud  brudean  as  calrna  1234 ;  taisech 
na  buidne  923 ;  buredach  na  buidne 
1804;  reisin  mbuidin946;  ina  buid- 
in  bodba  as  a  warlike  troop  3401 ; 
rogres  C.  a  buidin  3025,  3236;  n.p. 
buidne  bruthmara  1368,  1446,  2269, 
4435;  comad  buidni  bidbad  2143; 
comtis  buidni  buaidertha  3130;  gredon 
7  glorbresmaidm  na  mbuden  mbodba 
2808;   robuaidir  na  buidni  3530. 

buid,  v.  báid. 

buide  yellow.    A  bogadaib  buidi  1476. 

buide  thanks  453. 

buide-monguch  yellow-maned  446. 

buidbeachas  m.  gun  b.  do  in  spite  of, 
without  effort  to  himself -p.  xvii. 

buile,  baile  f.  madness  p.  xvi. 

builid  blooming,  comely  719.  O'D., 
Gor.,  Tbc.  p.  488. 


buille  a  blow,  stroke.  Co  tuc  A.  builli 
do  P.  3106,  3161 ;  'na  buillib  3185. 

buime  f.  nurse  2230 ;  buimini  476, 2229. 

buinne  spout,  rush .  Sruth  buinni  1338 ; 
an  buinde  lasamain  4739;  n.p.  na 
buinnedha  diana  3583;  buinnetha 
3631;  risna  buindeadaib  292;  iter 
buindedaibruadha4237;  dual:  amal 
norethidis  da  buindi  diana  3135. 

bun  m.  base,  bottom,  root,  foot.  I 
mbun  chroind  1818;  a  mbun  a 
sliasta  1723;  ar  bun  inn  fhoilt  2453. 

bunad  m.  origin.  Cara  bunaid  2324; 
mac  bunaid  98;  isam  banselcairi-si 
bunaidh  duit  3705  ;  bunadh-indruim 
9;  b.-chenel  3651;  b.-ceneil  3776; 
ar  bunad  1779 ;  as  an  bunad  3638. 

bunad-cbenel  m.  original  stock  334; 
is  do  gasraidh  Grec  a  bunadhcenel 
3651 ;  ar  ba  do  Grecaib  bunadhcinel 
T.  4805 ;  g.s.  na  n-abach  sin  do  bunad - 
cineoil  bodein  4786,  561 ;  dod  bunad- 
chinel  fein  4408 ;  do  bunadcenel 
2281 ;  do  bunadhcenéil  Ioib  3776. 

bunata  chief,  main,  primary,  of  good 
origin  or  constitution  923;  compar. 
ua  bunata  394.    C,  C.C. 

bun-gér  sharp-pointed  920. 

bun-lethan  having  a  broad  stem  2310. 

bunsacb  f.  rod,  toy-javelin.  Birán 
bunsaigi  baisi  3213. 

búredacb  a  roar,  shout  1803.   C,  Wi. 

butbfad   bittern,  horned  owl(?)   3037;     / 
bufa  C.C.  882,  4170. 

ca  what  followed  by  rel.  Ca  toirrsi 
ara-tai  4333;  ca  misgais  no  ea  mi- 
gradh  fuil  agut  1041 ,  1315 ;  ca  cuan  no 
ca  caladport  309 ;  ca  leth  teigthi  4654; 
ca  leth  trialltar  4530;  cá  leth  rach- 
as  4392 ;  ca  dasacht  ara-tathai  416, 
4391,  4884;  cadrochciall4885 ;  cairet 
421 ;  cadai-siu  duind  424  ;  ca  digail 
577  ;  cá  folach  doberthai  921 ;  ca  rast 
1901 ;  ca  furtacht  dober  fort  3754. 

cabracb  bossed,  bossy.  Sceith  cabracha 
2665. 

cabradacb,  cobradach  embossed,  bessed 
1550;  7  sciath  capradhach  3738; 
taitnem  a  sceith  capradaig  2866, 
4827 ;  a  sceith  chuanna  chabradacha 
3070.    Cf.  C.C. 

each  every,  each,  any.  Cach  ni  1057, 
3895 ;  cach  col  1064 ;  d'  indsaigh  cach 
cineada  1117 ;  gacha  bhadna  every 
year  2592  ;  da  cach  leith  4278. 

cach  re,  each  ala,  v.  gach  re. 

each  m.  everyone,  the  rest  2286;  cach 
dib  1021,  4325,  4616;  do  chach  dib 
ré  cheili  4557 ;  co  roibi  cach  uili  ina 
colladh  1171;  no  an  sid  rosirfead  ar 


338 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


each  at  all  hazards  1185,  1081; 
anindi  chaich  dib  re  chele  2743;  do 
chach  archena  1-500 ;  re  each  andsin 
2046;  comgres  each  2286. 

cadai-siu  424,  cétfatai-siu  Eg.;  ca  + 
atai-siu.    V.  taim.    Cf.  Ped.  n.  432. 

cade  what  is?  159;  7  caidhi  in  gellad 
dorignis  3653. 

cadruca,  cadaruca  Eg.  Apollo's  wand 
caducous  590. 

cáem,  cóem  (1)  dear,  gentle,  kind, 
beautiful.  Is  atcffima2680;  chuirp 
a  chaenicheili  4668,  4695;  ar  echaib 
cseina  1513;  ceem  cumachtach  1627; 
co  n-edaigib  casma  4437 ;  cona  chim- 
saib  coema  1515,  4604;  a  cathbairr 
choema  3071 ;  ba  caeom  do  chlu  3383. 
(2)  dear  one,  friend.  Ag  adlucad 
a  caem  7  a  carad  4624. 

cáem-chéle  f.  dear  spouse,  lovely  wife 
761 ;  ar  gradh  chuirp  a  chaemcheili 
4668;  do  churp  a  caemcheili  4695, 
4699 ;  raadlaicsed  curpu  a  carad  7  a 
csemceilead  4918. 

cáem-dorn  tine  hand.  A  euil  a  caem- 
duirind  976. 

cáeme  f.  beauty,  loveliness.  Ara  caime 
734. 

caémthachas  m.  friendship,  companion- 
ship 1343.  Cóimthach  m.  companion. 
C. 

cáep  f.  clod,  mass,  fleck.  Isin  caip 
cumascda  3081 ;  risna  cseboib  coeni- 
chubair  3065.    C. 

cáera  f.  a  sheep.  D.p.  do  chserchaib 
1643. 

cái,  cói  f.  way,  path,  meeting,  cross- 
roads. Ar  ca  4650,  2181;  cal  na 
eonair  987 ;  coma  ceeiti  conairi  1749 ; 
cse  3297;  coma  ceeiti  comredi  2222, 
3507 ;  ara  caethib  1791 ;  ar  ceetib  na 
conaire  256,  ar  coitib  Eg. ;  ar  chee- 
thib  diamra  1905 ;  ceeiti  falaig  3507 ; 
caathi  a  coimretha  2365;  mod.  Gael, 
caoi  f.,  pi.  caoite,  cf.  G.  p.  410. 

cái,  cói  weeping.  Domebaid  a  chai 
1248;  ac  cui  1897. 

caidche,  coidche  till  night,  always. 
Caichi  3189,  coiche  Eg. 

caide  hard.  A  sceith  chaidi  1279. 
Caite  rigor  G.C. 

caide,  caidi  where?  where  is,  are? 
Caidi  3314-5;  caide  2124;  caidi  in 
gnuis  glan  2105. 

caidhim  I  weep,  bewail.  Pret.  3s.  caidh- 
is  4652.    Caoidhim  TSh. 

caill  f.  losing,  loss.  Caill  a  nn-oigi  727. 
TSh. 

caimse  f.  shirt.  Lucht  caemsa  inti- 
mates 301.    Cf.  léine  chrios  H.B. 

cáin fair, kind,gentle.   Nirbacain4520. 


caingen  f .  question,  case,  dispute,  affair. 
N.p.  bar  caingni  1141. 

cáinim,  cóinim  /  complain,  lament.  Ge 
rachainsed  Greic  in  mac  sin  2205; 
v.n.  cáined3396,  3687-8,  3838;  conid 
cainiud  A.  2588;  ac  cseiniud  2121, 
2141,  2203;  ac  cainead  4641;  do 
chommorud  in  chainte  sin  2227. 

caint  speech,  talk.  A  n-agaid  chainti 
1076. 

cáintech  plaintful,  mourning,  funeral, 
elegiac.  Do  commorad  cluichi  chain- 
tig  2191 ;  cainthech  2201 ;  badb- 
chaintech  2203 ;  admolta  a  cheapoigi 
caintige  4193;  co  cseinteach  easba- 
dach  4919 ;  7  a  cluicheda  cainteacha 
2588,  2957 ;  in  cluichi  cainteeha  sin 
2589. 

cairde  f .  truce,  respite,  covenant  815.  C. 

cairdes  m.  covenant,  alliance,  family 
relationship  1778;  cairdess  4521; 
fiarchairechairdisa2756;  arin cairdes 
4414;  is  facus  uar  cairdeas  2137. 

cairgech  stony,  craggy  291,  1089;  dar 
cnocaib  cendgarba  cairrgecha  4674; 
bruigi  cairrgeacha  836;  a  slebtib 
cairrgecha  1391. 

cairpthech  m.  charioteer,  chariot- 
fighter.  Cach  eonair  concinget  in 
cairpthech  sin  2864;  cach  conairi 
concingtis  na  cairpthig  3067. 

caiscim,  coiscim  I  check,  restrain,  cor- 
rect. Subj.  pres.  3  p.  o  rachaisced 
an  itaid-sium  1810 ;  ipv.  2  p.  caiscid 
1734,  2459;  caisgid  4729;  v.n.  do 
chase  a  hithad  2074.   P.H. 

cáit,  ca-áit  where,  followed  by  i  n-. 
Cait  i  rroibi  1503;  cait  a  fuil  2751; 
cait  a  fhuilid  itir  4257. 

caithim  I  spend,  waste,  enjoy.  Ipv.  2  p. 
na  cathid  2236;  pret.  3  s.  dochaith 
4581,  co  rocaith  1573 ;  3  p.  rochaith- 
seadar2983;  rochaithset  2990 ;  p.p. 
a  met  dachaithead  1644 ;  racaithed 
in  la  sin  leosum  2255;  v.n.  ar  cai- 
thim 1037. 

caithmecda  wasted,  devastated  774, 
wasteful  909. 

caithmech  wasteful,  prodigal.  N.p. 
cethra  caithmecha  268,  295,  909  Eg. 
C. 

calad  m.  harbour,  sliore,  strand  1796; 
g.s.  cairrgi  calaid  2526;  i  crichib 
cuain  7  calaith  3405 ;  caladport  309 ; 
dochum  chuain  caladpuirt  2015 ;  co 
hochraib  cuan  7  calath  3521. 

calma  (1)  brave  891,  1491,  2558;  cin- 
iuda  calma  1429;  lanchalma  255; 
compar.  ua  rochalma  384. 

(2)  bravery.  Calma  do  denum  2862. 

calmachd  f.  bravery.   Denaid  c.  3878. 


339 


22—2 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


Calydon  f.  Ri  cathbuadach  na  Cali- 
cloine  3826;  rig  na  Cailidoni  3976; 
Cailidoine  3982,  4886;  co  Cailidoin 
3983. 

can  whence.  Can  a  cinel  4757;  can  as 
tainic  ditsa  3625;  can  as  tangauar 
420,  921. 

can,  v.  cen. 

car  course,  agreement.  E.  do  chur  ara 
char  4133,  cor  C. 

cara  m.  friend.  Is  cara  bunaid  2324; 
ar  corp  a  charad  3374,  4330 ;  ni  thuc 
aichni  ar  carait  3482;  da  caraid  4248 ; 
ni  buigbead  bratbair  na  carait  cum- 
tha  mar  tbusu  3378;  ni  ha  caruit 
3673;  n.p.  carait  4671;  bad  caraid 
2317;  caraid  chumachtacha  4246,  7; 
furtacht  ar  carad  1082 ;  tar  eis  mo 
charad  4341;  chorp  a  carad  1123, 
4620;  dar  etaigib  na  carad  1375  ;  in 
dia  rogres  na  caraid-sea  2322. 

caragán  m.  dear  friend.  A  charagain 
1131. 

caraigecht  f.  wrestling  match  2554. 
O'E. 

caraim  I  love.  Pret.  1  s.  rocharas-sa 
1355. 

caratrad  friendship.  A.s.  677;  g.s. 
comall  caratraid  1115,  2352,  4356, 
4429;  arbithin  caratraid  7  cleam- 
nais  629 ;  a.s.  caridrad  438 ;  tré 
charadrad  an  rig  835 ;  donaisc  a 
chomaind  7  a  caradraid  652. 

carpat  m.  (1)  chariot.  0  robrisead 
carpat  2382,  2396;  rohindled  a  car- 
bad  1512,  1515;  7  a  carpad  4775; 
ac  imarchur  carpait  1727 ;  i  nn-ichtur 
in  carbaid  2363  ;  os  chind  a  charpait 
1519  ;  isin  charbad  1517  ;  ara  carput 
2308 ;  asa  charbat4120,  2 ;  asacarbud 
2898 ;  n.p.  radaingnigidearpaid  1269, 
2947;  carpaid  7  cloidmi  na  Cichlo- 
iscthi  4774 ;  g.p.  ac  comchrathad  na 
carpat  3064;  ar-conighdis  fo  cairp- 
thib  3863. 
ni  (2)   lower  jaw   (of  serpent).    Ima 

carbad  2065. 

carrac,  carrag  f.  a  rock,  crag.  Dobái 
carragard  899,  2311 ;  .i.  carrac  thend 
3404;  a  mullach  na  cairrgi  937,  8, 
9;  donith  carraig  comdaingean  de 
1201;  comdaingin  1216;  rogob  I. 
cairrig  2082;  i  n-aroile  carraic  256,  7; 
amal  charraig  coimnert  4237 ;  arnal 
carraicc  4497,  4237 ;  isin  charraic 
946;  dotarraing  camiig  941 ;  tarlaig 
T.  an  charraig  947 ;  contogluaiseadh 
cairrgi  873, 1953 ;  rolaeit  cairgi  3087; 
co  rrocumscaigi  a  cairci  3621,  4;  im 
chairrgib  cendgarba  2006 ;  risna 
cairrgib  3284 ;  dona  cairrgib  comora 


4207;  do  cairgibh  3633;  amal  tim- 
chillis  tond  niara  cairrgi  cuain  2526. 

carrmocal  m.  carbuncle.  Do  gemaib 
cruindi  carrmogail  2215. 

casaim  I  twist,  turn,  brandish.  Pf.  3  s. 
rachasustair  965,  rocusatar  Eg.    C. 

casar  f.  hail.  G.p.  sruth  casracha  1297; 
for  adjectival  suff.  a,  cf .  faircsena.  C. 

cassán  footpath.   Ar  casanaib  895.   C. 

cath  m.  (1)  battle,  war.  Asin  cath 
3270;  cath  7  congal  d'  fagbail  4337; 
dochum  an  chatha  4322,  3276;  fer 
da  chuingeadaib  catha  891 ;  do  thui- 
tim  a  cathaib  4375;  risna  cathaib 
1031 ;  i  cathaib  1438. 

(2)  battalion.  Intan  tangadar  na 
catha  sin  3532 ;  ar  na  cathaib  3267 ; 
osna  cathaib  1483;  dirma  diairmide 
do  chathaib  commora  1704 ;  dochum 
na  cath  cechtarda  sin  4486,  4858 ; 
roimpotar  catha  croda  na  nGrec  do- 
chum a  longphuirt  2975;  rogob 
aduath  na  catha  ceachtarda  3448, 
4278. 

cathach  warlike  564,  1592;  buidne 
croda  cathacha  2270. 

cathaigim  I  fight.  Pret.  3  s.  rochath- 
aig  4581;  v.n.  cathugud  1044, 
1078,  4793,  4807;  ar  cathugud  na 
hEdaille  4805;  ar  an  cathuchad  1240, 
1253,  7  ;  dochum  an  eathaigthi  1333, 
2322,  2710;  ailgius  cathaigti  1596; 
dogebthai  uar  ndaithin  eathaigthi 
2577;  a  cathbairr  caema  cathaigi 
1957. 

cathair  f.  city  1411 ;  airm  a  roibi 
caithir  4693;  ag  ditin  a  cathrach 
4113;  a  ndorus  na  cathrach  4377; 
mullach  na  cathrach  1090,  4074,  5 ; 
da  bar  cathraig  1315,  4649;  antan 
rangadar  an  cathraig  4069,  4122 ;  co 
cathraig  uasail  1178;  at  iat  so  na 
cathracha  1411,  3446;  o  rasiacht  na 
cathracha  1100,  3872;  dealba  na 
cathrach  4825 ;  ina  cathrachaib 
1232. 

cath-álaind  valorous,  beautiful  in 
battle,  elegant.  Soighde  cathalatiitZ 
I.  cathaille  3808,  cf.  4734. 

cath-barr  m.  helmet  3274,  4435;  co  tri 
ciraib  comarda  cathbairr  1452;  ro- 
nuaglanaid  cathbarra  1273 ;  ruithean 
na  cathbarr  916;  cathbairr  caema 
1435,  1567;  dar  cathbarraib  1374, 
4115;  fa  cathbarraib  ailli  4492. 

cath-buadach  victorious  in  battle  346, 
712, 969, 1066,  1279;  ri  cathbuadach 
3825 ;  do  choscur  cathbuadach  3177 ; 
risin  coscur  cathbuadach  3968. 

cath-chliath  f.  battle-hurdle,  cuirass. 
Cathcliatha  1434.    Cf.  C.C. 


340 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


cath-choill  f.  án  embattled  wood.  Os  na 
cathchoilltib  1817. 

cath-chris  battle-belt,  baldric.  Co  mber- 
tis  na  cathchresa  3518.    C.C. 

csLth-chvLmsiChtcLchbutth'-potrrr/iill  107; 
roleig  in  crodha  cathcumaehtach 
3805. 

cath-erriud  battle-drapery,  battle-gear. 
A  chatberriud  comraig  7  comiaind 
4388. 

cath-gairm  continual  call.  Ac  sir- 
gairm  7  ag  c.  a  mic  3588. 

cath-irgal  f.  lust  of  battle,  battle-objec- 
tive. Rodlnthaiged  in  chathirgal 
2822,  3226;  rochuir  ar  faesum  a 
rnuintire  in  cathirgal  dara  eis  .i. 
corp  Tit  3463.    Cym.  arial. 

cath-letrad  m.  battle-mangling  1474. 

cath-mílid,  cath-mil  m.  battle-soldier 
2204,  4215. 

ce  though.  Ci-p-indus  3707;  ce  roua- 
tar3888.    V.  ge. 

cechtar  each  of  two.  Ba  badbal  eas- 
baid  ceachtar  an  dá  sluag  sin  4089 ; 
cues  chechtair  de  4518;  do  cechtar 
leitbi  7 ;  maccsem  ceachtar  a  da  lam 
531;  ua  chechtar  in  da  sluag  2742. 

cechtarda  both,  each  of  two  3448;  isin 
chath  cheachtarda  sin  3128;  na 
sluaig  ceachtarda  2815;  na  catha 
cechtarrda  4278,  2936,  4858;  dochum 
na  cath  cechtarda  sin  4486 ;  na  curad 
ceachtarda  3056 ;  tre  ceachtarde  dib 
113;  na  cineada  ceachtarda  1078; 
osna  cathaib  ceachtarda  1483,  2867. 

cechtarnai,  cechtar  n-ái  each  of  two. 
Ac  cechtarnai  3868,  cedarnai  Eg. 

céile  m.f.  (1)  fellow,  one  another.  A 
cheili  980,  1021;  ré  ceili  1222,  2744; 
da  cheili  1798;  i  cend  aroili  7  a 
cheili  2366 ;  ara  cheili  873 ;  ar  brai- 
gid  a  cheli  1242;  each  dib  ac  mar- 
bad  a  celi  1618 ;  ina  cheli  3455 ;  tuc 
each  dib  poic  da  ceiliu  3723. 

(2)  spouse.  Carait  mo  cheili  4671 ; 
d'  iarraid  chuirp  a  ceili  4685;  bai 
fora  ceili  4701 ;  ni  ricfa  ceili  eili 
4708;  re  cheli  693;  corpu  a  csem- 
ceilead  4918 ;  braithfet  dit  mo  chele 
1505. 

céim  step,  pace.  Rochind  seig  a  cheim 
1088;  cen  cheim  ar  cula  2944;  ni 
cem  ar  cul  3419,  ar  cula  Eg.  V.n.  of 
cingim. 

céin  (1)  while,  whilst.  Cein  bem  ac 
tachar  2141. 

(2)  céin  no  co  all  the  time  till, 
until.  Cein  co  nn-eirig  in  ri  2163; 
cein  co  tanic  2763,  1831, 1842,  3267, 
3336,  3660;  gein  no  co  riacht  4255; 

.    cein  mata  except  2502. 


ceist  f.  question.    Arin  ceist  160;  a. p. 

ceasta  156,  163,  903. 
ceithern  f.  band,  troop.   O  'dchonnca- 

dar  c.   1147;    an  ceithern  sin  895; 

arna  ceithernaib  856 ;  cethirna  1409, 

1477,   1520;    cetherna  calma  1430. 

TSh. 
ceithir-riad  four-horse  team.    G.s.  as 

adj.  carpat  casm  ceithirriada  2694; 

a   carbad   csem-cheithir-riada  4775. 

Cether-riad    C.C,  ceithirriata  The. 

812. 
celebraim   I  bid  farewell.    V.n.   don 

cheleabrad   sin    4346;    do   celebrad 

1373. 
celg    f.    guile,    stratagem.     Int    sleag 

ceilgi  1159;  ant  indlead  ceilgi  1120; 

tuc  ceilg  4175;   na  tuca  nech  uaib 

celc  'ma  cheli  2461 ;  tré  cheilg  1104 ; 

is  imi  doroni  T.  in  ceile  sin  3467; 

as  fata  rochuimnigis  do  chealga  4552. 
celgach   guileful.    Ethiocles  celcgach 

1622;  sirch.  1380;  co  c.  4533. 
celim  I  conceal.    Ipv.  2  s.  ceil  4144; 

2  fut.  2  s.  celfidea-su  567. 
célmaine    augury,    omen.    Gach    cel- 

maine  condtrachta  2721.    C. 
célma.na,cha ugural.  G.s. in  (Z.int)shag- 

airt  celmanaig  3909. 
célmanaigtheoir    m.    augur,    diviner 

3915. 
cen  without.   Gan  teachtaireacht  1073 ; 

gan  fhis  1537,  2169;    gan  nech  da 

chur  1654 ;  gan  a  marbad  7  gan  2051 ; 

gan  sid  re  brathair  2767;  can  anad 

4830;   abair  ria  can  m'  airm  7  can 

mo  coin  do  leicedh  do  nech  ele  3851 ; 

can  a  chorp-sum  do  beith  Hum  3983 ; 

can  cuirp  a  carad  4619. 
cen  co  though  not.    Cen  co  hindusar 

dit  though  I  do  not  tell  thee  1350 ; 

cen  co  dech  nech  aili  and,  rachadsa 

3920 ;  cen  cur-dligar  a  denam  4898 ; 

gé  dechair-si  cen  co  dechair  3985; 

can  fis  can  aireachad  1111;  can  id- 

bairt  do   denam    868;    can    codlad 

1095;    can  T.  do  thegmail  dó  987; 

can  duine  do  G.  do  loscad  4587. 
cena,  chena  i.e.  without  it,  doubtless, 

indeed,  yet.    7  cena  4293;  Et  chena 

1073;  acht  chena  1077,  1145,  2362; 

mad  misi  chena  1308 ;  isin  n-uair  sin 

chena  2015,  4839. 
cend  head,  erid.   Ba  cend  saegail  sin  do 

A.  3526;  g.s.  in  n-imdomain  a  cind 

201 ;  i  cind  in  muigi  2311 ;  i  cend  na 

T.  2618;  d.s.  o  chind  co  bond  4277; 

ina  chend    headlong    1669;    a   cind 

1183;  do  chind  1448,  3284;  ar  cind 

conaire   2085;    ara  chind  4215;    as 

mo  chind  174;   osa  cind  870,  947; 


341 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


os  cind  910,  3472 ;  os  bar  cincl  4565 ; 
a.s.  ima  ceand  183,  1453;  do  digail 
bar  cend  ar  Creon  4661;  do  murad 
a  cathrach  'na  cendaib  4233 ;  a  cend- 
aib  na  T.  4244;  a  cennaib  a  mer 
2505 ;  uara  cendaib  seic  on  the  ends  of 
these  2505. 

cendacht  f.  headship,  supremacy  177. 

cendais  mild,  gentle  436,  1172,  1686. 

cend-chaim  having  a  beautiful  head 
589,  729,  2120. 

cend-chruaid  ha  ring  a  hard  head.  Boga 
blaithi  cendchruaidi  1401. 

cend-garb  rough-headed  287,  2006, 
3621,  4674. 

cend-mullach  the  crown  of  the  head. 
Cleithi  a  chendmullaich'2537. 

cendsaigim  /  grow  gentle,  I  am  soothed, 
appeased,  propitiated.  Pret.  3  s.  ro- 
cendsaich  3180;  p.p.  3  s.  rochend- 
saiged  aicned  Oirc  2959;  v.n.  cend- 
sugud  2753. 

cend-tescta  truncated  1687. 

cend-trom  heavy -headed.  Tamuin 
chruaidi  chendti'oma  2671. 

cenél  race,  kindred.  Can  a  cinel  4757 ; 
concindet  oencenel  1617;  docbum  a 
cbrichi  7  a  chineoil  4617;  cenela 
anmidead  ercboideacba  2774. 

cengal  m.  bond,  fetter.  A  cengail  213 ; 
do  cheangal  re  cbeli  693 ;  asa  cbengal 
2570. 

cenglaim  J  bind,  wrap.  Pres.  3  p. 
roceanglaid  1297;  pret.  3  s.  co  ro- 
cbengail  2935, 1382 ;  rocengail  2567 ; 
p.p.  3  p.  roceanglaid  4750 ;  rocheng- 
laid  1294;  p. p.p.  ua  cengalta  1453, 
na  cathcbresa  ceangailti  3518;  v.n. 
do  cbengul 131. 

cennadach  f.  province,  district.  Fo 
cricba  7  cbendacba  1182.  P.H.  5500. 

cennsa  f.  gentleness,  meekness  671. 

ceó  f.  mist,  haze,  vapour,  fume  3366; 
ceo  cumad  4702 ;  cor-ua  ceo  2934 ;  in 
ceo  3459 ;  ceo  crini  2705 ;  na  cloich- 
tigi  ciacb  1729,  4841;  tre  cbiacbaib 
597. -C. 

ceól-bind  giving  sweet  music  514,  851, 
2023,  2225,  2675,  3954. 

cepóc  f.  quire-song.  Admolta  a  cheap- 
oigi  caintige  4193.    C. 

cérchaill  pillow.    Do  cbearcbaillib  463. 

cert  fair-play,  just  decision.  Ní  dbén- 
adb  cert  na  dligedb  832;  a  cirt 
ebrandcbair  219 ;  cert  crandcbair  do 
chur  aturra  3925. 

certugud  m.  directing,  guiding.  Uair 
nir-cumaing  a  certugud  2359;  ac  c. 
aecb2901.    C.C. 

ces,  cess  .i.  cuairt  P.  O'C.  visit,  time. 
Is  i  sin  ces  7  uair  575  Eg. 


césaim  I  suffer.    Pret.  3  s.  ger-ces  28. 

cesfhagada  missile  spears.  Cess  .i. 
cuairt,  +fo-ga  javelin  1399.  Ceis  .i. 
sleagb  O'Cl. 

cesim  I  grumble,  am  angry.  Kocbes  air 
2514,  L.  indignatur  Theb.  vi.  747.    G. 

cest  a  caestus.  Don  cluicbi  cest  2507, 
2513;  ni  ba  setrecb  do  chornorad 
cluicbi  cbest  2501 ;  tuc  A.  beiru  ceisti 
do C.  2536,  cbesteEg. ;  b.-ceast p.  xvii. 

cét  hundred.  Tucud  cbucu  cet  do  buaib 
2271 ;  tri  diet  do  gillib  1468 ;  tri  chet 
marcach  2691;  cet  natbracb  199. 

cét-  first.  Cetadaig  first  night  2993; 
cetcath  first  battle  2982. 

cet  permission,  leave,  concession.  Ni 
cet  sida  dosbir  4835. 

cetaiglm  (1)  I  permit,  allow.  Cetaigim 
dit  3178;  v.n.  gan  cetugud  do  2493, 
an  tibri  anois  cedugud  4896,  nar-ua 
cedugud  2031,  ac  cetugud  2243.  (2)  I 
bid  farewell.  Pret.  3  s.  rochetaig- 
sium  3179. 

cét-duinem.  first  man,  first  person  849, 
2116;  ni  tusuc.  2683. 

cét-faid  sense,  perception.  Roclseit  cet- 
fada  curad  2827. 

cét-fer  m.  first  man.   Is  e  cetfer  1128. 

cét-gairm  first  calling.  7  ata  acat  c. 
3455. 

cét-gen  f.  first  birth.  Ua  bi  ceitgen 
cloindi  she  was  the  first-born  child 
691. 

cét-gonaim  /  wound  first.  Pret.  3  s. 
as  e  rocet-gonastair  352. 

cét-guine  a  first  wounding  357.    Tbc.  •., 

ceth  shower.    Cetba  1982;  na  cetba  do      Gh£. 
""cairgibh  3632  ;    risna  cetbaib  2340, 
4114;  onaceatbaib3426;  tromcbetba 
369.     .i.  tonn  C. 

cethar-aird/our  quarters.  Focheathar- 
airdib  204. 

cethar-chosach  four-footed  164. 

cethar-chosta  four -footed  159. 

cethir  quadruped.    Iter  ceitbrib  1603. 

cethrar  four  j^rsons  954;  roiadsat  in 
cetbrar  2903 ;  fa  derrscaigtbeacb  an 
cetbrar  fuaradar  bás  956 ;  is  andsin 
rabadar  cetbrar  curad  993 ;  comrac 
cetbrair  3120. 

cethre,  cethra  cattle.  Ni  lamdais  cetbra 
908;  marbas  cetbra  2775;  tre  indib 
na  ceatbra  1194;  duine  na  ceithri 
1428;  iter  ceithrib  1603;  'ma  cetb- 
raib  3148;  da  ceitbrib  of  their  cattle 
1645 ;  rogeall  di  co  n-idberad  do  cetb- 
raib  di  coimlin  3972;  robidbraid 
alma  7  cetbra  2254. 

cethri  four.  Ceitbri  mili  1421;  ceithri 
hingina  1675;  do  seichedaib  ceithri 
tarb  1484  ;  ed  cbeithri  n-urchur  2312. 


342 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


cét-lá  first  day.  An  cetla  tangadar 
Greig  4342. 

cét-long  f.  first  8hip,  principal  ship. 
Cetlong  in  betha  1941. 

cét-munter  f.  spouse,  icife  or  husband. 
Corp  cnisgeal  mo  cetmunnteri  4638 ; 
dar  eis  a  cetmuintire  4912.    C. 

cétna  (1)  before  the  noun,  first.  Is  i 
cetna  nech  769 ;  is  i  cetna  ech  2277. 
(2)  after  the  noun,  the  same.  Isint 
sleib  chedna  1261;  asin  chathraig 
cetna  1470;  dochum  na  coimlingi 
cetna  2290;  ban  samla  cetna  2439; 
don  chiniud  cetna  2877;  d'  indsaigid 
in  Chaladonda  cetna  3193;  (3)  the 
same  thing  m.  fagebtha  an  cetna  do 
denam  riu  4840. 

cét-oir  the  first  hour,  at  once,  immedi- 
ately. Fo  chetoir  956,  2307,  2383; 
fo  ehetuair  3337;  a  cetoir  1126;  a 
chetoir  3956;  a  chedoir  4666;  ba 
chetoir  2113,  4738;  ua  chetoir  2168; 
'sa  chetoir  4578. 

cét-smacht  m.  first  decree.  Is  é  cet- 
smacht  rigi  doordaigh-sium  4586. 

cia  m.  who?  ca  f.,  cid  n.  Cia  nach 
fidir  1667 ;  cia  an  duine  seo  427 ;  cia 
iter  2321;  cia  sib  4001;  cia  dib  218, 
667, 4322;  cia  in  sluag  2652 ;  gabadh 
cia  sud  4717;  cia  th'  athair  1820;  ca 
crich  1821 ;  ca  hole  dib  1890 ;  ca  raet 
1901;  cid  'ma  cidii?  1249;  cid  daib 
what  ails  you  1865 ;  cid  on  418,  3408; 
cid  'ma  n-iarthai  ormsa  1700 ;  cideacl 
562;  cid  nam-leig-sea  ort  3494;  ca 
furtacht  3754;  cid  bud  choir  1187; 
cia  na  dirmanda  3385 ;  cid  bé  cia  thú 
4720;  cid  traacht  noi/  669,  953,  3441, 
4218,  4284 ;  cid  ima  roiue  3551 ;  cidh 
do  dhenum  3634 ;  cidh  rotesc  an  crann 
3698;  cid  ni  risi  ndechadar  4757. 

ciachmar  misty,  foggy.  Neoill  ciach- 
mora  1964. 

cian  distant,  far,  long.  Co  cian  984; 
re  re  ciana  2533;  o  chianaib  just 
now  2087;  o  cianaib  3598;  ua  na 
criehaib  ciana  694. 

cian-aesta  long-lived,  aged  155,  332, 
1140,  1172,  2186,  2265,  3570, 
4403. 

cich  f.  pap,  teat.  G.s.  ag  iarraid  chithi 
a  muimi  1788 ;  o  cichaib  suas  523. 

Cich-loiscthe  having  burnt  paps,  Ama- 
zon. Rigan  na  Cichloiscthi  4774, 
4799,  2412. 

cid,  gid  though  it  be,  though.  Cid  mo 
choscar-sa  'dchluintea  4789 ;  cid 
airm  852 ;  cid  ad  eascara  4467 ;  gid 
733,  848;  gid  mad  béo  1011 ;  gid  am 
1124;  gid  sochaidi  dochodail  1340; 
uair  gid  feochair  1710;  cid  bé  cia 


thu  4720;  gid  I.  mac  Eson  as  for  I. 
son  of  Mscm  1997,  3956 ;  ged  ed  2092; 
gid  ed  nevertheless  2366.    V.  cia. 

dim  I  weep,  wail.  Pres.  2  s.  cid  'ma 
cidii,  I.  cii  1249,  cid  ima  cini  Eg. 

cilornn  pitcher,  urn.  Cilarnd  1663. 
Cilorn  C. 

cimas  border,  fringe.  7  cimas  do  dergor 
2496 ;  cimus  alaind  ordha  3739 ;  cona 
chimsaib  1515.    C. 

cimsach  fringed,  hemmed  462. 

cin  m.  guilt,  sin.  Ad  chintaib  fein 
4897 ;  i  cinta  mo  meic  2126 ;  a  cinta 
a  ingine  809. 

cin,  v.  mo  cin. 

cindim  I  fix,  determine,  resolve.  Pres. 
Is.  cindnim  664;  ipf.  3  p.  ar  na 
cintis  eich  2429,  v.  cingim ;  2  fut.  3  s. 
risa  cinfedh  a  comarle  244 ;  pret.  1  s. 
cor-chinnius  4340 ;  3  s.  rochind  1088, 
4667,  4783,  dochind4869,  nar-chind 
1138,  o  rocindestar  246,  rochindestar 
630.  uair  docindastar  1076;  3  p.  ro- 
cinnsit  3872,  rachindsed  4900,  ro- 
chindsed  1290,  1735,  2986,  rochind- 
sead  2625,  rochindsetar  1870;  p.p. 
rocinded  584,  2052,  2921. 

cindiud  m.  end,  conclusion.  Is  i  seo 
crich  7  cindiud  2918,  cinded  Eg. ; 
nir-bo  choir  duit  an  cinnead  sin  do 
denam  4790. 

cindus,  ce  +  indus  how.  Cindus  do- 
denad  1344;  cindus  leicfet  uaim  in 
gilla  n-oc  2549. 

cined,  ciniud  m.  race,  nation.  Ni  fuil 
crich  na  ciniud  570;  each  cineadh 
860 ;  na  hindtamlaig  na  huile  in 
chinid  571 ;  comairci  in  chiniuda 
2620,  569,  1600;  don  cinedh  3783, 
4;  don  chiniud  225,  2877;  antan 
beidid  na  cineada  1078 ;  na  ciniuda 
1378,  1390,  1429;  d'foiridhtin  na 
cined  3858 ;  fa  coir  dona  cineadaib 
4285,  1080,  1101;  ni  choiglend  do 
chineadaib  842.    C. 

cingim  I  go,  step.  Ipf.  3  p.  ar  na  cintis 
eich  whom  horses  could  not  excel 
2429;  pret.  3  p.  rochifigset  2980; 
v.n.  a  cheim  1088;  can  cheim 
4609,  v.  céim. 

cinnte  certainty.  Cinnti  1326,  61 ;  uair 
is  cinnti  3721;  is  cinti  1703,  5;  is 
cindti  daib  3919.    Laws. 

cipe,  cippe  line,  phalanx.  Dorone  cipi 
comdaingen  catha  534. 

cip-indus  however.  Cipindus  bes  tra  a 
torrachtain  3707.    V.  is. 

cir  f.  comb,  crest.   Cir  chathbairr  3418. 

Cir-dub  jet-black  4358. 

cirra,d  cutting,  tearing,  hacking.  Cirrad 
993.    C. 


343 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


cisél  devil,  stratum  of  corn  in  sack, 
spark  4358  Eg.    Cisál  Wi. 

ciúin  calm,  gentle,  still.  Neoill  cbiuine 
4264;  comrada  ciuine  718. 

ciuitas  city,  L.  civitas  2663,  4798  Eg. 

clad,  clod  m.  di/kc,  rampart.  Eisna 
cladaib  3277.    C. 

cláenaim  /  incline,  slant,  strain.  Ipf. 
3  s.  rocblaenad  1995. 

claidem  m.  sword,  tusks.  Is  e  mo 
chlaidem  as  cumachtach  4063 ;  acht 
mad  a  cloideam  nama  1381 ;  cloideb 
1416,  1892;  claideb  1932,  2127,  2498, 
3108,  3393;  beim  claidim  3962;  re 
glondbeimnig  a  claidem  no  a  clomair 
872 ;  am  cblaidim  1309 ;  fordingis  in 
claidim  claislethan  4525 ;  donocht 
a  chlaidim  919,  3945,  4016,  4576; 
ronocht  a  claideam  3391 ;  rathairring 
a  claideam  973 ;  'ma  claidim  n- 
urnocht  4033;  n.p.  cloidmi  1271, 
4774,  cloidme  1473,  7  a  claidbi  nochta 
2132;  ragabsad  a  claidbi  1955;  a 
cloidbi3070;  do  chlaidbib  3060. 

cláin-bhreth  f.  perverted  or  warped 
judgment.    Clambhreth  C.  4759. 

cláin-cholach,  clóencolach  perverse  and 
tricked.  Ag  Creon  clsencholach  4655 ; 
cosin  cathraig  claincolaig  251.  Air- 
chindig  cbloincholaig  Fis  Ad.  29, 
29;  clain  ate  colaig  ib.  29,  14. 

clais-lethan  ha  ring  a  broad  groove  4525. 

eland  f.  progeny,  children.  Is  tu  ba 
eland  dam-sa  2103 ;  nir  chosmail  mo 
chlann  7  claim  colach  4197;  ceitgen 
cloindi  691,  1455,  4295;  do  claind 
chaithim  4153 ;  rucait  clanda  suarca 
2035;  cona  clandaib  1676. 

clárad  m.  planking.  Crandoga  com- 
daingne  claraid  4243,  1952.  C.C. 
Cf.  Aisl. 

cla.sa.chditch, trench,  moat.  A. p.  clasclia 
1642;  d.p.  arna  claschaib  1646;  tar 
na  clascaib  4099.    C. 

clé  (1)  left.  Osa  gualaind  cli  3320;  da 
leith  chli  926;  ina  llaim  cli  1551, 
4016 ;  cor-ben  a  lam  cli  comnairt 
4021.  (2)  uar  a  chliu  on  his  left  side 
1416. 

clechtaim  I  accustom  myself,  am  wont, 
use  to  have.  Pret.  3  p.  is  misi  rach- 
leachtsad  ant  oireacbt-sa  orra  839 ; 
v.n.  re  sirchlechtad  by  constant  cus- 
tom 2107. 

clemna  f.  marriage  alliance.  Clu  na 
cleamnad  sin  688 ;  uad  cleamnada  do 
343,  452,  4.    C. 

clemnas  m.  alliance  by  marriage.  Ar 
gain  in  cleamnasa  3201;  arbithin 
cleamnaia  629 ;  cuich  roopabad  clem- 
nus  676. 


cles  m.  feat,  trick.  Boimir  cles  carpait 
furru  2908. 

clétne  ridgepole,  roof  tree,  top,  excellence, 
Ba  halaind  in  cleithi  2999 ;  7  cleithi 
a  chendmullaick  remi  2536;  i  clelth 
i  (I.  a)  cendmullaig  2889 ;  a  dibrucud 
i  clethi  asoir  2471 ;  i  cleithi  i  (I.  a) 
chind  2528. 

cliab  m.  chest,  breast.  Ina  cliab  1011 ; 
trena  chliab  4526 ;  'na  chliab  3295, 
4549 ;  i  cliabaib  402. 

cliamain  m.  (1)  son-in-law  1172;  g.s. 
ac  eomdingnad  a  cleamna  2420 ;  gai 
a  clemna  1819 ;  do  chleamnaib  666 ; 
tuc-som  da  cliamain  2284.  G.p.  cona 
coecait  clemnad  .-En.  37.  (2)  father- 
in-law  4339,  3392. 

cliath  f.  hurdle,  wickerwork.  Cor-ba 
dluithitber  re  cleitb  lenad  2823,  leined 
Eg. ;   7  cliatba  cruaidi  cranda  2672. 

clithir-diamair  (1)  having  secret,  hidden 
shelters.  Tresna  coilltib  olithirdiam- 
raib  312.  (2)  secret  shelter.  I  clitbir- 
diamraib  na  coilled  508.    Clitbar  C. 

cloch  f .  stone.  Ata  in  clocb  2779 ;  clocb 
mulind  1668;  comard  ré  cloicb  na 
cathracb  4224;  n.p.  clocba  851, 
1984;  na  clacba  comthenda  2070; 
a.p.clocbacruaidi4111;  docblocbaib 
comamais  4235. 

cloch-shnechta  hail,  hailstones.  Cor-bó 
comdluith  ré  cetbaib  cruaidi  clotb- 
neacbta  4114,  1983.    C. 

clochta  made  of,  consisting  of  stone.  Be 
doirrsib  clochta  4103. 

cloich-tech  stone-house,  belfry,  tower. 
O'  tcbondairc  Baich  na  cloicbtigi 
ciacb  1729 ;  adebondaire  na  claictbigi 
4841.    O'D. 

clóim  I  conquer,  overcome.  Ipf.  subj. 
3  p.  ni  claitidis  3446 ;  p.p.  roclffiidead 
361;  roclaeit  2827,  roclaidbit  Eg. 

clomair  scrateher,  tusk.  A  claidem  no 
a  clomair  872.  Clarhaire.Din.  Clam- 
raim  /  scratch  O'E. ;  cf.  glomar. 

clu  m.  fame,  rumour.  In  clu  digair 
1605;  ba  caeom  do  cblu  3383;  mad 
móo  a  clú  let  3781. 

cluach  famous.   Co  cluacb  1181.    C. 

cluiche  m.  play,  game,  sport.  Eocom- 
triallad  leo  cluicbi  disci  2468;  is 
amlaid  donitbea  in  cluicbi  sin  2469, 
2496;  dena  cluicbe  re  do  comais 
3781 ;  tairnic  in  cluichi  caintecba 
2589,  3016,  cluichedha  Eg. ;  a  mac- 
samlai  in  cluicbi  sin  2193, 2256,2475 ; 
do  cbommorad  na  cluicbed  2201 ;  do 
ch. cluicbicbaintig2191 ;  acluicbeda 
2588;  7  cluicbeda  suarca  subacba 
2183;  dogentar  cluicbeda  caintecba 
2957. 


344 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


clúm-deraigthe    stuffed    with    dawn. 

Do  chearchaillib  caerna  clumderai- 
tbib  463.    C. 

clusal  f.  prison,  cell  of  hermit.  N.p. 
elusala  1657.    C. 

cnáim  m.  hone,  tusk.  Do  cbnamaib 
eilfinti  ivory  472. 

cned  f.  a  wound,  sore.  N.p.  ni  hiat  a 
cnedba  3837 ;  na  cneda  637.    C. 

cues  m.  the  human  skin,  trunk,  chest, 
body.  Ni  ricfa  ceili  eili  mo  chneas-sa 
4708,  1148;  coma  crechtacb  comos- 
laicbti  a  cbnes  3-542;  g.s.  crecbta  a 
ehnis  2101,  2765;  a  cnis  an  curadh 
sin  1093;  re  cnis  na  cathracb  close 
to  the  city  4117;  re  cnis  3736;  trena 
cbnes  4894;  trena  cnesaib  1908;  fa 
cbneasaib  1275;  n.p.  cnis  gonta 
4689.    C. 

cnesaigim  /  cicatrise,  heal.  V.n.  arna 
cnesugud  1403 ;  g.s.  cnesaigtbi 
1156. 

cnes-gel  having  white  skin  2912. 
Corp  cnisgeal  4638;  cuirp  chaema 
cbnesgela  2885. 

cnet  f.  sob,  groan,  sigh.  A  chned 
churad  2931.    C. 

cnoc  m.  knoll,  lull.  Da  scailter  cnuic 
3446;  dar  cnocaib  cendgarba  4674. 

co  to,  up  to:  prep,  with  ace.  but  dat. 
pi. ;  before  vowel  of  art.  or  pronoun, 
cos-;  before  vowels  of  other  words, 
/(-.  Cusin  Teib  3384;  cosan  inad 
4561;  cos  aniu  4321;  gusan  Scei- 
fchia  4789;  cusna  sluagaib  1996;  co 
tigib  2600;  co  crichaib  Grec  2587; 
co  muigbibh  3612;  co  hairm  4560; 
co  h  Argus  1006;  co  dubach  1256; 
co  hudmall  929;  with  poss.  pro- 
noun: cona  lansoillsi  1923;  with 
rel.  pronoun:  cosar-cuireadh  894, 
in  sluag  cusa  soichi  3350;  com- 
pounded with  personal  pronouns : 
1  s.  cucum  3312,  ehucumsa  1737, 
2125 ;  2  s.  chucut  1656 ;  3  s.  ehuici 
516,  1743,  chuigi  1068,  4275;  1  p. 
chucaind  1672,  2012;  2  p.  chugaib 
4731,  chucaib-si  2953;  3  p.  chucu 
111,  2271,  cucu  3475. 

co  n-  ivith :  prep,  with  dat.  co  n-arm- 
fogrugud  1175.  With  art.,  cos :  gusna 
sluagaibh797;  with  poss.  pro. :  cona 
rigaib  1378. 

CO  n-  conj.  so  that,  until,  with  subj.  in 
order  that.  Co  rrobris  a  buird  3620; 
co  rrocumscaigi  3621 ;  cona  dernsad 
coibnius  377. 

co-cnaim  I  cheic.  Ipf.  subj.  3  s.  co 
sirchagnadh  906 ;  v.n.  'ga  chagnam 
3325 ;  ac  cognam  1246  ;  do  chacnum 
3341. 


co-crich  f.  confines,  boundary.  I  co- 
cricb  na  Greci  2669. 

cocuasta  concave,  hollow.  A  cbruit 
choguasta  851,  1170;  cathbairr  c. 
1567,  1375;  i  carraic  c.  256;  fetana 
c.  514.    C. 

cocur  whisper,  secret  counsel  654. 

cóem-chele  f.  spouse,  consort.  Do 
chaemchele  110. 

cóem-choisercthSifair-conseci-ated  ,dul  g 
consecrated.  Tenic.  3412;  an  sruth 
coemcoiserctha  3580;  fon  sruth 
coemcoisrectha  3608. 

coibnius    (com-fine)   m.    relationship,  - 
kindness  377.    Croeba  coibniusa  710 ; 
is  facus  uar  coibnes  2137. 

cóic,  cúie  five.    Cuic  rig  dec  3329. 

coica  fifty.  Coica  ingen  1457,  2012 ; 
atehondairc  T.  in  ceecaid  curad 
1696. 

coicéle  (com-eéle)  m.  (1)  companion. 
(2)  companionship  378.  .i.  comairle, 
Acall. 

cóicer  five  persons.  Co  rotoitsit  in 
coicer  miled  so  3554;  7  torchair  in 
cuicer  3149;  acht  aencoicer  nammá 
71. 

coiclim  I  spare,  save,  reserve.  Pres. 
3  s.  ni  choiglend  842. 

coill,  caill  f.  wood,  forest  1808;  cor-ba 
coill  comdluith'  3282,  3658;  ua 
clithirdiamruib  na  coilliudh  1751 ; 
na  neoill  coilli  comdluithi  4842; 
sechnon  na  cailli  1762  ;  tresin  coilli 
1831;  risin  coill  1516;  do  chomlasa- 
main  na  cailleadh  4737;  i  c.  na 
coilled  cruime  crsebaigi  509;  icoillid 
N.  2327;  na  coillti  283,  289,  736, 
1463 ;  is  e  airchisses  each  gabad  coil- 
led  2662 ;  dar  craebaib  na  caillead  910, 
915,  917;  uisqui  coillti  Nem  1746; 
feda  foithremra  coillted  N.  2199 ;  dea 
na  caillted  2661;  a  coilltib  N.  1478; 
co  coilltib  Nem  1715;  tresna  cailJtib 
dluithi  doimtheachta  4673. 

coillteág-  f .  little  wood  896 ;  isin  choil- 
leigh  2059. 

coimde  safety.  Ni  coimge  duindi  4855, 
coimdigh  Eg.    Acall.,  C. 

coim-denmach  finely  fashioned  468. 

coim-digna  height,  very  summit.  Is 
comdingna  cuici  3211. 

coim-dilse  f.  common  possession,  equal 
rights  or  opportunity,  a  fair  field. 
Eoleicsead  comdilsi  3182;  doleig 
coimdisli  4474.    C. 

coim-dingnad  m.  strengthening,  forti- 
fying, comforting,  comfort  1360, 
"1848,  2104,  242Ó,  3393;  'ca  coim- 
dingnad  4201  ;  'cachoimdignad4347, 
4707. 


345 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


coim-direch  very  straight.  Co  crund 
caern  comdiriuch  2849. 

coim-ditiu  f.  protecting,  protection. 
'Ga  cbomditin  1930. 

coim-ecla  f.  great  fear,  consternation, 
panic.   Comegla  2736. 

coim-écor  array,  adorning,  equal  layer, 
fixed  position.  Cathbairr  coemegair 
1529;  in  crandoic  coimfhecair  486; 
i  comecur  318;  asa  eoimegur  4421. 
C.C. 

coim-écraim  I  arrange,  set  in  order. 
P.pr3  s.  rocomecrad  2209,  2221; 
denom.  from  coimecur,  eoimegur 
4421. 

coim-érgim  I  rise  with,  go  on  a  hosting 
with,  rise  up.  Ipf.  3  s.  intan  ro- 
coimerged  2070  ;  pret.  3  s.  roeomerig 
2292,  2934;  rochomerig  1302,  2337; 
rochoimeirig-si  4639,  4064;  rocbo- 
mergedar  2045,  2133,  2198,  2226, 
4482;  v.n.  dorindead  comergi  2797, 
3038;  ac  comergi  2200. 

coimét,  comét  guarding,  keeping. 
Lucht  a  cometa  his  guards  2714; 
don  coimed  sin  3875. 

coimétaim  I  guard,  keep.  Ipv.  2  p. 
comedaid  3879;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  co 
rocoimhetad  811. 
5j(  coimetechtf .  companionship 242;  coimi- 
techt  1479,  coimetecbt  Eg.;  lucbt 
coimidechta  1148,  301. 

coim-fergaim  1  become  angry.  Pres. 
3  s.  rocomfergaid  2517. 

coim-fneidm  the  same  or  equal  effort  or 
strength,  joint  effort,  great  struggle. 
Isin  coimfheidm  2814;  ar  toirnem 
chuingeda  choimfedma  1098. 

coim-fhúlte  bent  together  401;  ara 
ngluinib  coimfillti  2534. 

coim-fhliuch  filled  with  moisture. 
Neoill  comfbliucba  1963. 

coim-glic  m.  a  conflict,  duel,  wrestling- 
bout  2554.    Coimgleic  Din. 

coim-gxessaim  I  incite.  Ipv.  2  s. 
comgres  each  2286;  pret.  3  s.  cor- 
comgres  3056;  rochomgres  2401, 
2906;  v.n.  aca  comgresacht  4448. 

coim-indsaigim  I  approach,  attack 
simultaneously.  Is  andsin  coimind- 
saigid  4858. 

coimithech  strange,  foreign,  hostile 
689,721,  comthaideacha  Eg.;  coem 
coimthech  482 ;  marcach  csem  comui- 
thech  2345  ;  acuradaib  comithi  1547, 
comidhthi  Eg. ;  ua  na  crichaib 
comaidehi  694,  comtigi  Eg. ;  d'foi- 
ridhtin  na  cined  coem  comidech 
3858.  Com-aigthe  Lism.  733;  com- 
athech,  athecb  Aw. 

coim-leng  f.   race,  contest.    Doronsat 


comling  1811 ;  coscuir  comlenga 
2425;  g.s.  inadaib  coimlenga  2329, 
2388,  2397,  2399,  2451 ;  dochum  na 
coimlingi  cetna  2290;  ar  buaid  na 
coimlenga  2409,  2462 ;  isin  choim- 
ling  2339,  2440;  do  choimling 
choimretha  2423.    C. 

coim-lepaid  f.  a  joint  bed,  nuptial 
couch.  Ni  ricfa  ceili  eili  mo  choim- 
leabaid  4709;  isin  choimlepaid  sin 
4555.    C. 

coim-lethaim  I  overspread.  Pret.  3  s. 
rocomleath  2705. 

coim-lethan  (1)  equally  broad,  square 
1642.  (2)  very  broad.  Tar  na  clas- 
caib  eoimlethna  4099. 

coim-lin  the  same  ox  equal  number,  com- 
plement 3972;  an  coimlin  curad 
894,  1306;  a  coimlin  1457,  2272; 
rogeall  di  co  n-idberad  do  cethraib 
di  coimlin  ar-marb  do  shluagaib 
3972. 

coimnesa,  r.  comnesa. 

coim-ré  f.  the  same  time,  one  epoch 
1191.    C. 

coim-réid  equally  smooth,  level  265, 
1197,  2268;  ceeiti  comredi  2222. 

coim-remar  stout,  very  thick.  A  cor- 
rana  coimremra  1277 ;  7  slegb  coim- 
remar  3575. 

coim-rith,  coim-riuth  m.  (1)  running 
at,  attacking  2809.  (2)  running  to- 
gether, a  race,  joint  course,  running 
in  double  harness.  Eofocrad  comritb 
2305;  'man  comritb  2331;  do 
cboimling  cboimretba  2423;  ar 
eebaib  caema  comretba  1513 ;  buaid 
coimretba  2385 ;  comartba  in  choim- 
retba  2443 ;  dentar  in  comritb  2460; 
ac  comritb  ri  aroili  2809,  cf.  ni  dene 
comrud  friss  inulc  arnabad  builec 
diblinaib  (Do  not  thou  run  in  double 
harness  with  him  in  evil  lest  both  of 
you  become  evil)  Wb.  5d  38;  an 
tus  do  cbomb-ruitb  's  tu  og  (At  the 
outset  of  thy  course  in  double  harness 
whiles  thou  art  young)  Leabliar  nan 
Choc  295. 

coim-shlemuin  very  smooth,  slippery, 
lubricating  2560.    Slemon  Wi. 

coimsigim  I  fit,  arrange.  P.p.  3  p. 
rocboirnsigid  1274.   Laws. 

coim-thindenus  m.  great  haste,  ur- 
gency.   Ag  comtindinus  4816. 

coim-thriallaim  I  attempt  along  with, 
contest.  P.p.  3s.  rocomtriallad  2468; 
v.n.  ac  coim-triall  4730. 

coinde   meeting   1110;    a   coinde    7   a     "^ 
comdail  a  bratbar  4419 ;  doroindi  I. 
coinni  576 ;  a  coindi  na  curad  932 ; 
dorigned  condi  3006.   P.H. 


346 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


cóir  just,  right.  Is  coir  t'  olc  do  denam 
4263,  4271;  fa  coir  4285;  nar-bo 
choir  an  comairli  sin  4134;  ni  coir 
1808;  nir-bo  choir  duit  4790;  corn- 
par,  coraide  1356;  is  coraidi  2759; 
is  com  dit  3461;  cora  625,  3257, 
4027,  4322,  4431,  4657,  4667. 

coirnecda  garlanded,  overhanging, 
bent.  Ar  lar  fualascaigh  eoimeacdai 
46;  for  bogadaib  cornectaib  1276. 
Coirnigim  I  tonsure,  denorn.  from 
corann  crown,  garland.    C. 

coisercaim  I  consecrate.  P.p.docoiserc- 
adh  3696;  p. p.p.  caema  coisergtha 
4604,  1198;  cosearetha  562;  coem- 
coiserctha3580;  coernchoiserca3412, 
2068;  coisercthal783;  coissechartha 
2066;  v.n.  ar  na  coisegrad  4762. 

coiside  (1)  m.  foot-soldier.  In  cosidi 
mer  2904;  curaid  7  cosigida  4098; 
comlingdacoisidibl812;  (2)  as  adj. : 
dona  sluagaib  coisidib  2422.    C. 

coitchend  common,  general.  Cend 
cumachtach  coitchend  1264;  eo  c. 
544,  1136. 

col  m.  incest,  sin,  crime.  Na  benad  do 
chol  rind  4591;  each  col  1064;  a 
haithli  na  morchol  138;  ar  met  a 
chuil  434,  566 ;  indisin  in  chuil  435 ; 
cuimniugud  in  chuil  sin  1936;  a 
haithli  in  chuil  doronni  3412. 

colach  sinful,  incestuous.  In  eumdach 
colach  786,  860;  clann  colach  4197, 
4661 ;  g.s.  os  cind  na  cathrach  colaigi 
1574;  dochumChreóncholaigh4751; 
a.s.f.  tabraid  in  colaig  2125;  ac  ditin 
cuirp  colaich  3409. 

colaige  f.  sinfulness.    Ara  colaigi  616. 

coll  losing,  loss,  ruin.  Ar  na  choll  2100. 

coll&ide  deshly,  carnal  1627. 

coloma  f.  column.  Kisin  eolamain 
comdáingin  1152. 

colptha  cult  of  leg.    Co  colpthaib  732. 

com-,  v.  also  com-m. 

comach,  com-bacli  utterly  breaking. 
Coniach  claidim  3563 ;  coma  chlaid- 
ib  3266,  Eg.  comach ;  a  haithli  an 
lancomaig  1092;  ar  na  comach 
1603,  3949,  3487,  3563,  4688;  co 
nderna  comach  2909;  do  chomach 
4664.  Comagh  .i.  briseadh  O'Cl. 
Y.n.  of  com-bong-. 

comachtach  m.  magician  3570.  V. 
cumachtach. 

com-adas/ii,  meet, proper,  well-matched. 
Ee  cheli  comadais  di  693,  110;  a 
chomain  chomadais  1746.  W.  cyf- 
addas. 

com-áes  equal  in  age,  coeval.  Dena 
cluiche  re  do  comais  3781 ;  a 
comais  4162. 


com-áesta  coeval,  of  the  same  age.  A 
derbrathair  c.  his  twin  brother  lf}97 ; 

7  a  comlin  da  tharbaib  comffista  2272. 

com-aicsigim.  com-fhocsigim  /  d run- 
near  to.  Pret.  3  s.  rocomaicsich 
each  3067;  3  p.  comaiscsit  4724, 
comfaicsighsit  E<:. 

comaid  food,  feeding  together,  com- 
panionship. Co  nbi  scitheach  ar 
caithim  an  comaid  sin  1037 ;  comaid 
4035.  Comaid  mess,  messing,  eating 
together  H.B.  Cf.  comithi  commensa' 
tiones,  Wb.  20h  21.  Victusque  cibis 
Theb.  11.  679. 

comaid,  v.  cumand. 

comaidem  f.  boasting,  bragging  3470, 
3670;  robad  comaidhem  3612;  age. 
4043;  ac  comaidim  4045;  gair  co- 
maidme  4044. 

com-aimserda  contemporary  332. 

com-ainm  m.  cognomen,  name  3,  12, 
95,  155,  278,  496,  900.    C. 

comair,  ar  comair  over  against,  oppo- 
site; for  the  use  of,  for  the  purpose 
of.  Ar  comair  in  rig  sin  1553;  ua 
comair  1791 ;  isin  ssebchoiri  ba 
chomair  3545.    C,  P.H. 

comairce  (1)  protection,  shelter,  safe- 
guard. Ar  ar  faasum  7  ar  ar  comairci 
2140 ;  doberi-siu  comairci  2619.  (2) 
signal.  Co  raseind  sdocc  comairci 
4307,  comairc  Eg.    V.  eomarc. 

com-airle  f.  counsel  576,  2032;  is  i 
comairli  579,  654,  1081,  1110,  1185, 
1290,  3324 ;  is  i  comairle  3872. 

comairlech  m.  counsellor  1140,  4403. 

com-airlech  e</ ually  slaughtering,  equal 
daughter.    Ac  c.  3106'.    C. 

com-airseng  very  wide,  expansive.  In 
ceathar  duil  eomairsing  3080. 

comaitecht  f.  accompanying,  company. 
A  gnathamais  comaitechta  4367. 

comall  m.  fulfilling.  Nocha  n-uil 
comall  caradraid  1115;  do  chomull 
a  charadraid  2352;  can  chomall 
caradraid  4429. 

coma,lla.im  I  perform,  accomplish.  Pret. 
3  s.  ni  racomaill  ani  sin  2042 ;  p.p. 
3  s.  is  ed  on  rocomailled  sin  685. 

com-alta  m.f.  foster-brother  or  -sister. 
Is  e  ua  comalta  3826,  4662,  4;  a  da 
chomalta  2231.    Cym.  cyf-eillt. 

com-altas  m.  joint  fosterage,  intimate 
friendship.    N.s.  440. 

comamus  m.  mutual  aiming  at,  strik- 
ing, guild  aim.  Do  chomamus  cuirp 
araili  2519;  g.s.  as  adj.  comamais 
1954,  2888,  3284,  4112,  4235. 

com-arba,  com-arbe  m.  successor,  coarb, 
co-heir.  Cen  comarbada  3050,  com- 
arbha  Eg. 


347 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


comarc  signal,  warning.  Sdocc  com- 
airce  4307,  comairc  Eg.    C. 

com-ard  (1)  equally  high,  equally  tall, 
level.  Adchondairc  da  ralaig  mbeaca 
ainireidi  comard  ré  eloich  na  cath- 
rach  4224,  264;  is  at  caema  comarda 
2680 ;  iter  da  sliab  cbomarda  2269 ; 
fogragad  na  cruinni  comairdi  1285; 
co  tri  ciraib  comarda  1452.  (2)  m. 
Eoreithset  ua  ehomaird  they  ran 
abreast  2443. 

comartha  mark,  sipn.  Kosuidiged  crick 
7  comartha  2310,  2443 ;  ua  comartha 
740,  1384;  7  comartha  1222;  a 
comardha  coscair  3733;  a  c.  883, 
4740;  i  comartha  sida  2008;  i  co- 
martha a  sacerdoiti  2291;  i  c.  a 
choscuir  2419;  rofhacaib  comartha 
1919;  mar  chomarthai  2241;  a 
comartha  seic  3029. 

com-brúd  m.  crushing  2909.    C. 

com-buaidirthi  much  troubled,  dis- 
turbed 2798. 

com-buaidred  m.  disturbing.  'Ca  c. 
2161. 

com-buid  f.  a  being  together,  companion- 
ship. G.s.  a  aes  cumtha  1006;  a  fer 
comtha  3360;  carait  cumtha  3378, 
2317;  v.s.  a  fhir  cumtha  3374,  3797; 
a  fir  chumtha  3979.    C. 

com-chaithem  m.  eating,  spending 
together,  sharing.   Ac  c.  680. 

com-chengailte./Viiíiív/  together,  united. 
Comcheangailti  a  cathbairr  7  a 
claidmi  4513. 

com-chengal  a  joining  together.  Arna 
chomcheangul  1484. 

comchland  planted  together,  thrust  in. 
Do  slegaib  comclanda  3282.  Com- 
cland,  clandad  thrusting.  Metr., 
Laws. 

com-chói  a  weeping  together.  Ac  com- 
chui  1921. 

com-chosmail  exactly  alike  478. 

com-chosnumm.  mutual  contention  583. 

com-chrathaim,      com-chrothaim      I 

.  shake  together  or  vigorously.  V.n. 
ac  comch  rathad  3063. 

com-chruind  quite  round,  circular.  A 
miasa  comchruindi  485 ;  cairgi  com- 
chruindi  3087. 

comchumaiscim  I  mix  together,  mingle. 
Ipf.  subj.  3  p.  amal  concumaisctis 
3079. 

com-daingen  very  strong,  firm,  stable, 
solid.  Da  sciath  comdaingen  3305, 
comdaingne  Eg. ;  g.s.f .  comdaingne 
938;  oomdaingni  688,  3023;  a.s.f. 
comdaingin  348,  1152,  1216;  dirim 
dluith  catha  comdaingin  972 ;  donith 
carraig  comdaingean   de    1201 ;    ba 


hacaireda  comdaihgni  3534;  ina 
cathrachaib  comdaingnib  1233 ;  i 
crandócaib  comdaingni  1952,  4242; 
i  tulchomaib  comdaingne  2250;  ré 
doirrsib  clochta  comdaingne  4103. 
C.C. 

comdaingniglm  I  strengthen.  Ipv.  2  s. 
comdaingnigsiu  1772;  2  p.  a  firu 
comdaingnigid  4812. 

com-dál  f.  meeting,  tryst.  Ad  chorn- 
dail-si  1050 ;  a  coinde  7  a  comdail  a 
brathar  4419.    C. 

com-dath  of  the  same  colour.  G.s.  used 
as  adj . :  do  tharbaib  comsesta  com- 
datha  daibsi  2272 ;  co  n-erboll  com- 
datha  2281 ;  co  nn-etach  a  comdatha 
2291.    Wi.,  C. 

com-delb  f.  the  same  shape,  equal 
beauty.  G.s.  as  adj.:  ba  gairit  coma 
comor  comdelba  re  athair  he  2689. 

com-derg  very  red,  crimson  2913,  3285. 

comdibraicim  I  hurl,  shoot.  P.p.  3  p. 
rochomdibraicid  3086;  v.n.  comdi- 
briugud;  g.s.  as  adj.:  comdibh- 
raicthi  1984. 

com-dichracht  f.  eagerness,  resolute- 
ness. Ar  c.  a  comraie  3124.  Coim- 
dichra  C.C. 

com-dluith  equally  dense,  very  close, 
compact.  Cor-ua  ceo  comdluith  2934, 
3282;  coma  coill  comdluith  3658; 
cor-bó  comdluith  ré  cethaib  4113; 
na  neoill  coilli  comdluithi  4842. 

com-dluthaigim  I  close  together,  throng. 
Pret.  3  p.  rochomdluthaigsed  3226. 

com-dorcha  very  dark  2337,  3366, 
4264,  4863. 

com-drud   pressing    together,    closing. 

■  Ac  comdrud  a  edaig  3739.  Drud, 
drut  C.C. 

com-fbada  very  long,  of  full  length  326. 

com-fbairsing  very  wide,  expansive. 
In  cruindi  comfhairsing  3040;  in 
ceathar  duil  comairsing  3080. 

com-fháiscim  I  squeeze  together,  em- 
brace. Comaiscsit  4724,  comfaicsig- 
sit  Eg.    Cf.  TSh. 

com-fbocbraib  near,  nigh.  I  comfhoch- 
raib  di  2068,  3323. 

com-fhocus  (1)  nearness,  neighbour- 
hood. I  c.  do  1520, 2633;  a c. don  T. 
4608, 4675,  4733, 5, 1198,  3889,  4049 ; 
a  c.  na  caillead  914,  1609;  i  com- 
fhocos  duit  1657;  i  comfhacus  do 
2451,  2460.  (2)  near.  Is  comfogus 
bas  dó  4179  ;  a  fedaib  7  a  foithrib  na 
crich  comfhogi/s  4537. 

com-gaiscedacb  equally  valorous,  com- 
panion in  arms  4662. 

com-ga,sced  m.  <>f  equal  valour,  coeval  ill 
arms.  Comalta  comgaiscid  3826.    C. 


348 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


com-gel  equally  white,  very  white  2340. 
com-glanaim    /    cleanse    thoroughly. 

Pret.  3  s.  rochomglan  2101. 
com-gluaisim  /  more  together, convulse. 

Pret.  3s.  coeomgluais  in  cruindi  3039. 

com-iadaim  I  enclose  around.  Pret. 
3  p.  rochomiadsad  3279. 

com-immda  very  many,  cert/  numerous. 
'Ma  cethraib  comimda  3148. 

com-imtheaclita  easily  passable  3533. 

comla  f.  door,  fold  or  leaf  of  a  door. 
Ag  drud  na  comlad  n-adbul  n- 
umaidi  4102 ;  co  racumscaigid  coni- 
lada4420.    Wi. 

com-lai  he  went,  followed.  Eo-comlai 
2403. 

com-laigim  I  fall  prostrate  together 
with.    Comlaigid  forro  472-5. 

com-lán  quite  full,  perfect,  complete. 
Co  cend  mbliadna  corulaine  2034. 

com-lánachadh  m.  a  completing  p.  xv. 

com-lann,  comlond  m.  an  equal  con- 
test, combat,  match,  duel.  Nil  miad 
ri  milid  dibb  comlond  'rit  3779 ;  roba 
chornlund  bagacb  3122 ;  ante  fogres 
comland  fort  4369;  no  an  comland 
dochuirfed  riu  4013, 4350;  g.s.  cethrar 
curata  comlaind  954, 996, 1114, 1309, 
2578,  4366;  docbum  in  chomlaind 
3160;  curaid comlaind  4366;  docbum 
an  comlainn  4372  ;  d.s.  do  cbomlond 
rit  4885,  4363 ;  da  cbomlond  ris  3209; 
on  cbomlann  4383 ;  rochuirset  com- 
lond 2870,  3117;  do  cbomlann  894. 

com-lasaim  /  set  aflame,  blaze.  Pret. 
3  s.  co  racbomlas  4277,  4283,  3  p. 
co  racomlasadar  4683;  p. p. p.  com- 
lasta4447;  v.n.  ac  comlasad  4738. 

com-lasamain  (1)  flaming,  blazing. 
Athinni  crithrech  c.  4685.  (2)  f.  in- 
flammable material.  Do  chonilasa- 
main  na  cailleadb  7  dochuirsed  na 
curpu  fuirri  4737. 

com-linaim  I  fill  up.  P.p.  rocbomlinad 
703;  v.n.  arna  clascbaib  comlinta 
sin  1646. 

com-loscad  m.  consuming,  burning  up. 
A  comloscud  a  corp  4721 ;  da  com- 
loscud  leis  2218 ;  cedugud  com- 
loisctbi  4896;  v.n.  of  comloscim; 
p. p. p.  tre  indib  na  ceathra  comlo- 
iscthi  1194. 

com-lúaimnech  moving  swiftly  or  to- 
gether 1169.    Luamnacb  Laws. 

com-luge  joint  oatlt,  conspiracy,  cove- 
nant 438,  1880,  2614  Eg.    C\,  P.H. 

com-lugud  lying  down  2614,  comluigi 
Eg.  Cf.  Laws  sub  voc.  wbere  the 
words  are  similarly  confused. 

com-luith  equal  agility.  Ua  cbomaird 
chomluith  2443. 


commaidem  f.  a  bragging,  boasting 
over.  7  coscur  7  comaidim  na 
Sceithia  4770;  a  chomaideam  353; 
an  commaidbem  sin  do  cloisdeacht 
3670;  'gar  c.  2971;  na  gain  co- 
maidmi  4768;  ag  comaidim  a  cos- 
cair  4045;  curaid  da  commaidem 
3362 ;  ag  comaidem  na  ngnim  4043 ; 
rue  M.  a  coscor  7  a  comaidem  2834, 
3470,  3880. 

com-maidim  I  boast.  Pret.  1  s.  rocom- 
maidius  357. 

com-máin  f.  equal-gift,  equivalent 
counter-gift,  mutual  favour,  obliga- 
tion, exchange.  A  chomain  choma- 
das  1746.    C. 

com-mann  company,  companionship. 
Comand  438;  rocbindestar  commund 
630 ;  f er  comaind  3360 ;  cuimniugud 
comand  3947.    C.C. 

com-mór  equally  great,  very  great.  Ba 
gairit  coma  comor  2689;  na  cairci 
commora  3624,  4207 ;  ina  sciatbaib 
coema  commora  2174. 

com-móraim(l)  Iglorify,  magnify,  urge  y 
on,  intensify.  Pret.  3  s.  misi  docho- 
mor  na  catha  4320;  ipv.  commor 
catha  1354;  rel.  is  i  cbomoras  1736; 
2  fut.  3  s.  commorfád  1184;  v.n. 
catha  do  chommorad  1370,  1546, 
1803,  2147,  3807;  a  cluichi  do  chom- 
morad 2572;  a  n-inad  commordha 
m'  oidhedha  3850.  (2)  I  equal. 
Uair  nir-commor  coraid  risin  trenfer 
sin  2521. 

commus  m.  power,  control,  restraint. 
Cona  roibi  ceandacht  no  commus 
ac  neach  d'  araile  dib  177;  cen 
chummus  2493.    C. 

comnaide  dwelling,  staying,  abiding, 
resting  981,  2596.    C. 

com-nart  very  strong  401,  3402,  3533, 
4021,  4816;  coninert  2082,  3109, 
3320;  coimnert  3676,  4237. 

comnesa  nearest,  ne.rt.  Ua  c.  di  510; 
ua  c.  doib  1638,  1874;  ba  c.  do  sin 
2294;  ua  comnesu  do-side  2360; 
nach  ua  comnesa  do  I.  3618;  ba 
coimnesa  di  4682 ;  fa  coimnesa  di 
901.    P.H. 

comnesta,  coibnesta  kindred,  allied. 
Tangadar  na  ciniuda  comnesta  1390. 

com-nocht  quite  bare  112. 

com-núallaim  /  wail  with,  make  joint 
outcry.  Pret.  3  p.  rochomnuallsad 
2203.    C. 

COm-ÓentU  m.  unity,  agreement.  Ag 
comsentaid  1337,  ic  comaentugud  Eg. 

com-ól  m.  drinking  together,  ban- 
queting. G.s.  in  taisech  comoil  486; 
comola  1910. 


349 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


comórtus,  commórtus  m.  vying,  rivalry 

p.  xvii.   C. 

com-oslaichte  open,  exposed,  per- 
forated. Coma  crecbtacb  comos- 
laichti  a  chnes  3542. 

companacli  m.  companion.  Mac  a 
corapanaig  4664. 

compar  breast,  chest.  I  compur  a  chele 
402;  dacompuracleb533,5.  C.,C.C. 
Compar  a  cbroidhe  TSh. 

compert  f.  conceiving,  conception.  Ba 
hingnam  comperta  di  2688.    C. 

comrac,  comrue  m.  encounter  3163, 
4343.  Conrrag  4311 ;  i  forcindiud  in 
eomraic  sin  2830 ;  docbum  an  cbom- 
raig  4434;  errad  comraig  1114;  i 
forciund  in  comruic  2872,  3163; 
do  cbomruc  3209;  do  comrag  4215, 
4350,  4363,  4881 ;  caiscid  bar  com- 
rue 2459 ;  rofocair  comrue  2839 ;  ina 
comracaib  2828. 

comracaim,  comraicim  I  meet,  join, 
unite  with,  fight  with.  Pres.  3  s.  i 
comraiceand  780;  ipf.  3  p.  amal  na 
comraictis  3245 ;  co  comraictis  3069 ; 
pret.  2  s.  roebomracais  1051 ;  3  s.  ro- 
comraic  2828,  2869,  3104,  3521,  ro- 
comroic  781,  racomraic  1051,  2686, 
4511,  rocbomruic  2686;  1  p.  racom- 
raicsemar  3382  ;  3  p.  cu  racomraige- 
dar  4506,  2894,  o  racomraigsed 
4508,  rocomraicsedar  2831.    Aur. 

com-rád  m.  conversation.  Caisgid  bar 
comratb  4729 ;  ua  cumair  comraid  7 
imacallma  iat  379 ;  bafada  a  comratb 
4728;  do  comrad  1259;  ac  comrad 
3228,  3235;  ac  an  comradb  sin 
3757;  a  n-ardebomratb  4747;  ar 
comratb  4680;  g.p.  re  indisin  com- 
rada  ciuine  718.    I-.  com-rátb. 

comram  m.  context,  triumph.  Re  corn- 
ram  2255;  n.p.  comroma  2985. 

comramacn  contentious.  Comrumacb 
409,  993,  2343,  2885. 

com-rand  f.  an  equal  share.  Dofheimid 
comraind  cricbi  4411;  comroind  142 ; 
can  cbomraind  cricbi  4429. 

comrar  f.  chest,  coffer,  shrine,  bier. 
Eocomecrad  leosum  comrair  2209. 
C. 

com-ráth  m.  conversation,  colloquy. 
Ag  indisin  a  gloir  7  a  comráitb 
1158;  co  nar-ba  cubaid  comraitb 
4051;  ba  comratb  re  earraig  4398; 
a  comratb  1340,  4725;  ac  comradb 
2057.    V.  com-rád. 

comriachtain  a  coming  together,  coitus 
779,  781,  1689,  1721,  4710.   Wi. 

com-shaegul  equal  age,  equally  long 
life.  Ni  ferr  do-sum  c.  re  Nestor  2185. 

com-shnaidmim  I  knot,   tie,   link  to- 


gether.  Pass.  subj.  2  s.  comsnaidm- 

mer  438;  v.n.  comsbnaidm  664. 
com-sholus  equally  bright  318. 
com-shuaite     kneaded     together.      Ac 

suidigud   na    mbairgen    comsbuaiti 

cruitbnecbta  467 ;  cor-ba  rod  robuan 

ina  criaid  cbomsuaiti  4817.     Suaite 

Aur. 
com-thend  very  strong ,  fi rm .  Na  clacba 

comtbenda  2070. 
com-thennaim  I   urge,    hasten.     Pret. 

3  s.  rocomtbeann  3056. 
com-thiug  very  dense,  very  close.    In 

ceo  comtbiug  3459. 
com-thnuth    m.    mutual    envy,   great 

fierceness.    Eobái  comtnútb  mór  acco 

4822 ;  cotbnud  583. 
comthnúthach   invidious,    very  fierce 

1097, 1649,  3075;  comtbnudacli  786. 
com-thoirse  f.  a  common  sorrow.    Ac 

comtoirrsi  4725. 
com-thoirsech    exceeding    sad.     Com- 

tboirrseacb  4346. 
com-tholl   closely  perforated.    Critbir 

cb.  4518. 
com-tnroit  battling  together.  Trecbom- 

troit  274. 
com-throm  equally  lieavy,  exactly  even, 

w ell -i ,a lanced  1490,  2082;  roleig  co 

c.  man  claidim  sin  bi  4577. 
com-throma,  com-thrumma  f.  an  equal 

weight.   Co  n-erboll  com-troma  2281. 

C.  ' 
comthromas  m.  equality,  impartiality, 

justice.    Cilarnd  corntbromais  1663. 
comthuitim    a    falling    together,    the 

same  fall.    Uair   rotboitsed   andsin 

comthoitim  re  bi.  3527;    ac   com- 

tboitim  2827. 
con-  relative,  after  conj.  antan.  Antan 

concingeadcatb4828, 1299;  is  andsin 

conindsaigid  4858 ;  ni  sud  consirtber 

4921.    V.  tbe  simple  verbs. 
con-ad-ciu  I  see.    Ipf.  3  pi.  confaictis- 

siurn  1610.    C. 
conair  f.  way,  path.    In  conair  rotbuitt 

4281 ;  in  cbonair  3371 ;  gacb  c.  3367 ; 

ar  cind  conaire  di  2085  ;  ar  casanaib 

conairi  895 ;  coma  cseiti  conairi  1749 ; 

co  na  fagbad  fer  cai  na  conair  987 ; 

cacb  conair  i  concingtis  3067,  4505. 
con-berim   I   bear,    pass    (judgment). 

Conberad  a  ormna  1483;   coberaid 

bretba  1662,  conberuit  Eg. 
con-canaim  I  sing  along  with.   Ipf.  3  p. 

concandais  admolad  1476. 
con-caraim  /  love.   Ipf.  3  s.  concarad 

1543. 
con-cindim   I    resolve    on,    determine, 

acknowledge.    Pres.  (rel.)  3  p.  con- 

cindet  1617. 


350 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


COn-cingim  /  march,  ride,  reach,  enter. 
Pres.  3  p.  concingit  1703 ;  intan 
concingid  calad  1796;  ipf.  3  s.  con- 
cingead  4505,  4828;  ooncinged-sum 
aia  ecbaib  1553  ;  concinget2864 ;  3  p. 
ar  echaib  concingtis  a  catba  1526, 
3067  ;  mi  curaid  concingdis  4205. 

con-clisim  /  perform  "  feats."  Ipf.  3  s. 
conclised  2435.  Cf.  The.  p.  256, 
n.  4. 

con-crithnigim  I  tremble,  shake.  Ipf. 
3  p.  ua  samalta  concrithnigtis  na 
coillti  1463. 

con-cuinglm,  con-con-di-saigim  I  hail, 
challenge.  Ipf.  subj.  3  s.  concuin- 
geadh  4434. 

con-cuirim  /  throie  down,  overthrow, 
overpower.  Ipf.  subj.  3  p.  amal  con- 
euirtis  cath  as  if  they  were  to  break 
rank  1814;  v.n.  concuired;  n.p.  con- 
cuirtbi  952.    C. 

con-cumscaigim  /  move  violently.  Pres. 
3  s.  antan  eoncurnscaigenn  1299. 

condaigim,  con-di-saigim  I  ask,  seek. 
Pres.  2  s.  is  conidingna  cuici  3211, 
euge  Eg. ;  2  fut.  1  s.  each  ni  do- 
chuingebaind  fair  1057  ;  ipv.  2  s.  cun- 
dig-siu  779,  2758;  pret.  rocliuindig 
780,  1782,  3328;  rochuindeigh  815; 
v.n.  saint  sirchuindcheda  793. 

confad  canine  rabies,  rage,  fury  376, 
1599,  3075,  3338,  3725;  re  confad 
na  cumad  2208.    C. 

confadach  raying,  furious  564,  1603, 
1882,  3340;  a.s.  f.  tabraid  cucum  in 
colaig  confadaig  2125. 

conferaim-i/jour,  shed,  combat.  Is  cuma 
congontis  7  conferdis  3772,  3485; 
confertais  992,  4236;  ni  fetharn- 
ail  conferthor  3579;  pret.  3  s.  con- 
fer 4705.  Conferim  I  combat  R.C. 
xxvi.  56.    C. 

con-folongim  I  am  able,  succeed  in, 
accomplish.  2  fut.  3  p.  ni  mo  na  Ioib 
badein  no  Mairt  confautis  fuirmed 
farain  3387. 

con-gabaim  I  keep,  hold,  have.  Pass, 
fut.  3  s.  acht  chena  coingebthar  tu 
3145 ;  v.n.  f .  co  na  roictis  a  cosa  com- 
gabail  in  talman  2911 ;  acom-cong- 
bail  116;  do  cbongbail  1034,  1755; 
acca  conguail  1819;  comgabail  2911. 

con-gal  f.  conflict,  fight.  Dea  na  catb 
7  na  congal  2601 ;  catb  7  congal  d' 
fagbail  4337. 

con-garbaim  I  roughen.  Ipf.  3  s.  con- 
garbad  1852. 

con-gniu  I  help.  V.n.  ba  coir  duit 
cungnani  catbaigthi  lemsa  3672; 
ag  cungnam  re  G.  3802,  3951;  can 
cbungnam  4254,  4488;  cuiignani  les 


1356;  congnam  ré  4249 ;  tabair  cong- 

nam  dam  4721 ;  do  chumgnam  le  R. 

4808. 
congonim  /  wound.     Ipf.  3  p.  is  cuma 

congontis  3772. 
conici  sin  hitherto  1876,  1928;  connici 

2947;  conigi  sin  1497.  1534,  2588, 

2717,  3338;  conuigi  sin  1087,  3841, 

4335,  4353,  4923;  conicci  witb  ace: 

c.  in  arbacb  1905 ;  connigi  sin  3396 ; 

coruigi  sin  2630,  4291. 
con-icim  lam  able,  lean.  Pres.  3s.  nir- 

cumaing  a  certugud  2359,  1782  Eg. 
con-labraim  I  speak   (together   with). 

Ipf.  3  p.  conlobraidis  1612. 
con-lenaim  I  follow.    2  fut.  3  p.  con- 

lenfaitis  1604. 
con-retbim  I  run  together  with.    Ipf. 

3  p.  conreitbdis  3054. 
con-riadaim  /  ride,  course.    Ipf.  3  s. 

conriadad  2282. 
con-riccim  I  meet  with,  encounter.    Pf. 

1  s.  intan  conrangus  4710;   v.n.  ar 

comriacbtain  4710  q.v. 
con-saigim  I  make  for,  attack,  witb  fo : 

pres.  2  p.  cosaigtbi  2483;   ipf.   3  p. 

cunsasset  fuitbib  1888  Eg. ;  pret.  abs. 

3  p.  consoigsit. 
con-séitim  /  blow,  flow.   Pres.  3  s.  con- 

seideann  1296. 
con-sillim  I  look  at.   Ipf.  3  p.  consill- 

dis  3641. 
con-sirim    I    seek,    endeavour.     Pass. 

pres.  3  s.  ni  sud  consirther  4921. 
con-snáim  I  swim.   Ipf.  3  p.  consnaetis 

1909.   Wi. 
con-snigim  /   drip,    sweat.     Ipf.  3  p. 

consnaigbdis  3583;  consnigtis  2341, 

3054,  3066 ;  cosnigtis  724 ;  ar-conigh- 

dis  3863,  1034. 
contabartacb  doubtful,  dangerous.   Ba    \ 

cuntabartacb  coscur  2375;    do  cbo- 

raid    cbundtabartacb    840;    go   cu- 

mascda    cundtabartacb    1712 ;     co 

cunntabartacb  3685,  4181.    C. 
con-tacmaigim,    con(to-ad-com-iccim) 

I  come  up  to,  come  round  to,  surround. 

Ipf.  3  s.  contacmaiged  500.    Cf.  tac- 

maisi  girth,  circumference.    C.C. 
con-tacraim  I  plead.    Pret.  3  s.  is  i 

timna  contacair  3843. 
con-taidligim  I  gleam  together  with, 

shimmer.   Ipf.  3  p.  contaidligdis  870 ; 

contaidlitis  1817,  3088;  eontaidlidis 

3090. 
con-tairnim  I  lower,  take  down.    Ipf. 

subj.  3  p.  contairnitis  1463. 
con-teichim  I  flee.  Pres.  3  p.  conteicbit 

1640. 
con-timcbill(a)iin  /  surround.   Ipf.  3  s. 

contimcbilled  500.  Timcbillsid  Tbc. 


351 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


con-tochlaim  I  dig  out  873. 

con-torchair  he  fell  together  with.  Pf. 
3  p.  contorchradar  2908. 

contracht  f.  curse,  imprecation,  L. 
contradictio.  Celuiaine  condtrachta 
2721.    C. 

contrárda  contrary  229. 

con-tuitim  I  fall  together  with,  along 
with.  Ipf.  subj.  3  p.  con-tudusstis 
286 ;  pret.  3  p.  con-torchradar  2908. 

copán  m.  cup.  Copan  alaind  2409; 
n. p.  copana  1909.    C. 

cor  m.  putting,  throw,  cast,  turn.  An 
trath  chuireas  cor  de  1296  ;  don  ckur 
sin  at  that  time  3230;  don  chur-sa 
2628,  2793,  4146. 

córaid  in.  champion  3104;  an  coraid 
877 ;  an  coraid  sin  1288 ;  do  choraid 
840,  1286;  ar  in  coraid  1668;  risna 
coradaib  1292. 

córaigim  I  arrange.  Pret.  3  s.  rocho- 
raigl423;  cia  nom-coraig  117;  p.p. 
rochoraigid  etaigi  garment»  were 
spread  2213  rocoirighsit  Eg.,  2329; 
o  racoraiged  2442;  v.n.  do  corugud 
2977. 

corbad  m.  defilement,  pollution,  corrup- 
tion. Na  benad  do  chol  na  do  chorbad 
rind  4591 ;  ar  met  a  chorbaid  434.   C. 

corcorda purple.  Da  sciath  comdaingen 
coicarda  3305. 

corcor-derg  purple-red  4275. 

corcor-glan  bright-purple  462,  1167, 
1515,  1549,  2213,  2280,  2653,  3204, 
4437  ;  lene  coem  corcairglan  3734. 

corcra  purple,  crimson.  Ger-ua  glan- 
gruadh  corcra  3840. 

coróin  f.  crown,  chaplet.  Is  amlaid 
robui  7  coroin  coscuir  2424;  a.p. 
ber-siu  let  na  coroni  2928. 

corp  m.  body.  Ara  roibi  corp  T.  4009 ; 
rochuir  de  an  corp  4014 ;  ar  imgabail 
cliuirp  an  churad  do  thoitim  forra 
4279;  ag  cirrad  chuirp  an  rig  sin 
993,2217;  inacurpl404;  roscailed 
a  anum  re  a  corp  dó  3853;  u.p.  na 
cuirp  2218,  4004,  4630;  ag  adnacal 
chorp  ii  oarad  1123;  dona  corpaib 
2212,  4854;  ider  na  corpaib  4626; 
a.p.  curpo  980;  curpu  3999,  4563, 
4734 ;  corpu  4566. 

corp-glan  having  a  bright  body  2120. 

corr  beak.  Fa  chomiib  in  charbaid 
2909.    Wi. 

corrán  in.  sickle,  blade.  A  corrana 
1277;  co  racumscaigid  comlada  da 
corranaib  4420.    C.C. 

corránach  hooked,  barbed.  Saigead 
croda  eorranach  4309. 

corrtharach  fringed  2437. 

coruigi,  v.  conici. 


cos  f.  foot.  Da  cois  on  foot  3553 ;  da 
cois  near  him  4205;  co  rabadar  a 
chosa  4121;  ua  cosaib  1787;  fo  a 
cosaib  4852. 

cosair  a  litter.  Torchair  na  cosair  cró 
4554;  'na  cosrachaib  3948.  S.G. 
cosail  chró.    C. 

cos-aird  openly,  publicly  4715.  C, 
P.H.  7575. 

co-sáite  propped,  resting.  Sleg  cosaiti 
re  n-oclitaib  2938,  saiti  Eg.  V.  sái- 
dim. 

cosáitim  I  accuse.  Pret.  3  s.  rocliosait- 
si  1690. 

cosantach  defending,  protecting.  Ina 
llaim  cli  cosantoigh  1551  Eg.    C. 

coscrach  victorious  2407,  3230;  cos- 
crack  comretha  2428 ;  coscarach 
1097,  3664;  coscorach  3150,  3273, 
3685 ;  coscurach  713 ;  co  coscrach 
3707. 

coscur  m.  (1)  victory.  I  comartha  cos- 
cair  2309;  na  mill  in  coscar  1043; 
risin  coscur  3968;  an  mberam  cos- 
cur dona  T.  1214;  coroin  coscuir 
comlenga  2425;  coscor  1705.  (2)  de- 
feat  4790;  a  haitbli  an  choscair 
dochuir  1096. 

cosmail  like,  well-proportioned,  likely, 
comely  729,  1300,  2296;  ni  ua  cos- 
mail  1398 ;  nir  chosmail  mo  chlann 
7  clann  colach  4197 ;  a  airm  chasma 
chosmaili  2216;  ba  cosmaili  gnuisi 
na  ngaisgedach  4491. 

cosmaile  f.  likeness,  similarity.  Ara 
cosmaili  734. 

cosmailecht  f.  resemblance,  likeness. 
Ar  c.  a  ndelba  3125. 

cosmailius  ni.  likeness,  mutual  resem- 
blance 2679. 

cosnaim,  con-snim  I  contest,  defend. 
Pret.  3  s.  rochosain  2444, 4826 ;  2  fat. 
3  s.  co  cosenad  684;  v.n.  cosnam  m. 
grada  cbatha  cosnama  1179;  do 
chosnum  na  Tebi  1354,  1600,  3354, 
4482 ;  ag  cosnam  thosaig  482. 

cosnamach  (1)  contentious  208,  1101, 
1365,  1466,  2411,  3075,  3565,  4490; 
ina  llaim  cli  cliosnamaich  1551,  co- 
santoigh Eg.  (2)  winning,  attractive. 
Comrada  cosnomacha  718. 

cosnumaid  m.  contender,  conqueror  712. 

cothaigim  /  maintain  myself,  stand 
firm.  Pret.  3  s.  cothaigis  4237.  O'K. 
Cf.  C.C. 

cothnud,  p.  com-thnúth. 

cotlad,  cotlud  m.  sleeping,  sleep  1146; 
codlad  3897,  3904 ;  sirchodlad  3902 ; 
g.s.  suan  a  sirchotalta  1886,  3900; 
ba  hadbur  cotalta  513 ;  dochum 
dea  an  chodalta  3900;   ina  chotlud 


352 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


515;  'na  collad  625, 1161 ;  can  codlad 
1095;  as  ccolladh  p.  xvii.    P.H. 

cotlaim,  contulim  I  deep.  Ipf .  3  s.  is 
and  rocatlad  2067 ;  pret.  3  s.  rocho- 
tail  329;  dochodail  1340;  ni  racha- 
dail  3002;  3  p.  ge  rachadladar  a 
shloig  3001. 

crád  torture,  anguish.  Arna  chrad 
4018 ;  re  crad  na  cumad  3395.    C. 

cráeb  f.  branch.  7  craeb  alaind  2007; 
docbum  chraibi  3538;  risin  craib 
3540.   V.  cróeb. 

cráebach  branching  509,  1479. 

CTÚ.éb-gla,8  having  green  branches,  green- 
branched  289 ;  os  choilltib  croeb- 
glasa  1731 ;  7  feda  croebglasa  1836. 

cráes  m.  maw,  jaw.  7  a  crees  urgranda 
oslaictbi  2071 ;  glomar  a  crais  2064 ; 
glonmir  na  craes  (sic  corr.)  602 ;  dara 
craes  907. 

cráesach,  cróesach  gluttonous,  ravenous 
1602,  295,  3411,  4639. 

cráes-lethan  having  a  ivide  mouth. 
Carpaid  craesletbna  1269. 

cráes-oslaicthe  having  open  jaws.  Crass- 
oslaictbi  600 ;  creessoslaici  2926,  515, 
craesfhoscailti  Eg. ;  iter  cuanairt 
croesoslaicthi  1882. 

cráibdech  pious,  devout.  Iter  na  hina- 
taib  craibtliecha  562. 

cráidim  /  torment,  hurt,  offend.  Prét. 
3  s.  is  tren  rorathraid-sea  7  cbraides 
mo  ckridi  3981.    C. 

cráisech,  cróisech  f .  spear,  javelin.  Bo- 
ben  in  craisecb  di  2089.   Wi. 

crand  m.  (1)  tree,  trunk,  stump,  bole. 
Is  nibun  cbroind  1819;  d'  fhaicsin 
an  chroinn  sin  3702  ;  ticdis  croind 
851.  (2)  shaft.  Crand  na  sleigi  926; 
co  crund  csem  comdiriuch  2849; 
cranda  a  sleg  2937 ;  craind  na  sleigi 
sin  4863. 

cranda  stooped,  humped,  stunted,  con- 
tracted. Cliatha  cruaidi  cranda  hard 
curved  hurdles  2672,  L.  arborei  dant 
scuta  sinus  Theb.  vn.  277. 

crand-chor  m.  a  casting  of  lots,  a  lot. 
Cert  crandchair  219 ;  ac  cur  crand- 
chair  2328. 

crand-laem  (lamcbrandatbaEg.)  kiln- 
staff  still  used  to  unbusk  grain  in 
some  parts  of  Highlands  3364.  Tbe 
spoken  word  is  lamhchrann  m.  shaft, 
handle  of  flail.  The  Diet,  word  is 
dim.  lamhrachan  arms;  lamhrachan, 
lamhargan,  H.B. ;  cf.  B.C.  xxvi. 
169  lam(chrainn)  the  branch  or  bough 
of  a  tree. 
crandóc  f.  (1)  structure  of  wood.  Ra- 
trascair  na  crandoga  corndahigne 
claraid    4243;    i    crandócaib    com- 


daingni  1952.  (2)  vessel,  goblet.  Dora- 

tastar  in  taisech  in  crandoic  486.   C. 

crand-remar  thick-shafted  1490,  3293. 

cráth(a)im,  crótli(a)im  /  shake.    Ipf. 

3  s.  co  croithed  311 ;  con-craitheadh 

1282;  pret.  3  s.  rochraith  202,  1679, 

3760 ;  rocraith  2609 ;  rachrith  4447 ; 

rochraithistair  1365,  rochrotbastair 

Eg. ;  ros-crothastar  3096 ;  p  p.  rocra- 

tbad  3283;  v.n.  ag  crathad  4405  ;  ac 

crathad  1464.    Tbc. 

ere  f.  clay.   D.s.  cor-ba  rod  robuan  ina 

criaid  4817. 
crech  f.  raid,  foray.    G.s.  cruid  creichi 

1773.    C. 
crécht  m.  a  wound.    N.p.  a  chrechta 
3595,  637,  1130,  4;  crechta  mo  chnis 
2765,  6;  o  chreachtaib  500,  639;  co 
n-imad  crecht  1403. 
créchtach  (1)  wounded,  full  of  wounds 
65,  986,  1125,  1146,  1686,  3541;  fa 
crechtacha  a  cnis  4846.    (2)  wound- 
dealing.    Emon  crechtach  3156. 
créchtnaigim  /  wound.    Pret.  3  s.  co 
rocreachtnaig  2871,  rom-chrechtnaig 
3317,  rus-crechtnaig  3110 ;  p.p.  ni  tu 
docreachtnaiged  1131 ;  v.n.  ar  creacht- 
nubad  1149,  do  chrechtnugud  404, 
gan  chrechtnugud  2159.    G. 
creimm,  crem  m.  gnaiving.   Aca  crem 

1671.    a,  G.G. 
crét,   cráet,  ce-rét  xvhat   thing,  ichat 
546,  567;  créd  1058,  1316;  cred  teigi 
4332. 
cretim  I  believe.   2  fut.  3  s.  euidh  an 
duine  rochreitfedh  3770;  pret.  3  s. 
ni    rochreid    1226,    2972;    dochreid 
1227  ;  nir-chreid  3360 ;  3  p.  rocreidsit 
4900;  p.  pres.  ni  chreitir-sium  622; 
p.    subj.    commad    moidi    rocreitea 
do  622;  uair  is  mo  rocreitea  doib 
1636. 
criathar  f .  sieve,  riddle.  Coma  criathir 

chomtholl  4518. 
crich  f.  limit,  confine,  boundary,  goal. 
Is  i  seo  crich  7  cindiud  do  shsegail 
2918 ;  crich  7  comartha  cusa  leiefitis 
a  n-eocho  2309  ;  co  crich  na  Colcheta 
1226 ;  dochum  a  chrichi  7  a  chineoil 
4617;  ua  na  crichaib  ciana  694;  fo 
cricha  7  chendacha  1181 ;  re  crichaib 
1362,3495;  i  crichaib  1390 ;  icrichib 
3405. 
crichnachad  m.   ending,  closing.    Do 

chrichnachadh  1142. 
cride  heart.  Tanic  tra  cridi  na  nG. 
2759 ;  craidhi  80 ;  tigead  do  chraide 
4601;  tie  chraidi  3302;  a. p.  rodurai- 
gestar  na  crideda  4489, 1179 ;  a  cride- 
daib  na  nGreg  1137, 1599  ;  co  rotreg- 
dastair  a  craideada  2782. 


353 


■2:1 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


crin  withered,  shrunk,  old.    Seanoraig 

crina  1373. 
crinacli  m.   dry  sticks,  faggots.    Do 

chrinach  4736.    C. 
crine  f.  withered  state,  old  age.    Ceo 

crini  2705. 
cris  girdle,  belt.   7  cris  socair  seimidhe 

tairis  3736;  na  cathehresa  3518. 
crislach  f.  womb,  lap,  hollow.    C.  cho- 

guasta  1169,  3078 ;  i  crislach  a  sceith 

3237,  3949;  a.p.  a  crislaoha  a  sceith 

1068.    C.C. 
crith  trembling,  shaking  2736. 
crith-ainbthenach  storm-shaken  3406. 
crith-ecla  m.  quaking  fear  1254. 
crithel  spark.    C.  ehirdub  do   teinid 

4358.    Crithir  O'E.,  C. 
crith-fograig-im  I  resound  quakingly. 

Pres.  3  s.  crithfograigid  1299. 
crith-gáir  f.  clangour.    Ee  crithgair  a 

n-arm  4821.    LL.  185*44. 
crithnaigim   I  shake.     Pret.    3  s.    co 

crithnaig  3039,  co  rachrithnaig  4815 ; 

rochrithnaig     4450,     rochrithnaich 

3076;  3  p.  co  rachrithnaigsed  4742, 

co  rachrithnaigsetar  1851,  3500,  co 

rachruad-chrithnaigsetar  280,  roch- 

rithnaigseadar   748;     p. p. p.    comtis 

crinaigthi  comlaind   3134;    v.n.  ac 

crithugud  752,  crithnugud  Eg.    C. 
crithnaigthech    quivering,    trembling 

987, 1179, 1515,  1622  ;  crithnaichech 

602 ;    mna    croda    crithnaigthecha 

1953. 
crithrech  sparkling,  quivering,  awful. 

Soignen  c.  4275;  athinni  c.  4684;  a 

heiteda  crithrecha  4447.    C. 
crithugud   in.    trembling   attempt.    C. 

comraid  752,  crithnugud  Eg.    Crith- 

aigim  I  attack  (?).    G. 
cró   qore,   blood.    Torchair  'na  cosair 

cró  4554 ;  do  chru  3285. 
cró-chom-derg  red  as  gore.    Ina  mill 

crochomderg  2196. 
crod  m.  live  stock,  cattle.   G.s.  aisceda 

cruid  creichi  1773;  a  rnbreth  les  do 

chrud3652.    C. 
cróda    blood-coloured,    bloody,    cruel, 

brave  955,  988,  1107,   2269,  2876, 

3340,    4065;     saiget    croda    4309. 

C. 
cródacht  f.  (1)  cruelty  615.  (2)  bravery 

569.    (3)  importance.   Ar  ch.  1589. 
cróda-chumachtach  cruel  and  mighty. 

In  crodachumachtach  Mairt  3052. 
cró-derg-  blood-red  1908,  4817. 
cróeb,  cráib  f.  tree,  genealogical  tree. 

Croeba  coibniusa  710. 
cróes,  cróesach,  v.  cráes,  cráesach. 
cróes-,  v.  cráes-. 
cró-fhairsing'  wide-socketed  3293. 


croicend    rn.    skin,    hide   353,    1414; 

craicend  446,  4015;    tucad  crocend 

2496;  do  chosnum  in  chroicind  360, 

450,  1943;  rue  Tid  in  croicend  362; 

isin  c.  925 ;  do  craicciund  linci  1552 ; 

ragabastair    in    craiceand    970;     7 

craicind  langarba  2671. 
cró-lindti  pools  of  blood.   Ua  chrolind- 

tib  2885.    Acall. 
cró-linnteach  having  pools   of  blood, 

blood-dripping,    blood-stained,    gory 

65,  1125. 
crom  bent  down,  crooked.    Sciath  carj- 

radhach  cromm  air  3738 ;  asa  fiaclaib 

croma  871,  2066;  da  lamaib  croma 

938;  senoraig  chroma  2265. 
cromaim  I  stooj),  bend  doicn,   hasten, 

alight.    Ipf.    3   p.    co    na   cromdais 

540 ;  pret.  3  s.  rocromastar  I.  a  gnuis 

1777;  a  cend  559;  rochrom  a  chend 

1129;  3  p.  rochromsad  3398;  rochro- 

mad  3398;  v.n.  cromad  910.    C. 
crom-cend  wry-headed  3189. 
crot-boll  having  knotted  limbs,  decrepit 

1373.    Acall. 
cróthaim,  v.  crathim. 
cruadaigim  I  make  hard,  harden.  Pret. 

3  p.  rocruadaigsed  a  comlond  3114. 
cruad-arm  m.  hard  iveapon  1982.   Do 

chruaidarmaibh  3633. 
crúad-charrac    f.     liard    rock.     Don 

chruadcharraig  967. 
cruad-chomrac  hard  contest.    G.s.  as 

adj.:  cruad-chomraig  1275. 
cruad-choscrad  cruel  mangling  405. 
crúaid  hard.   Is  e  mo  chlaidem  cruaid 

4063;    ar  an  cloich  chruaidh  953; 

cloidmecruaide  1473, 1954 ;  equative : 

cruaidhither  ri  crandlaem  3364. 
crúaid-brisim  /  shatter.   P. p. p.  carbad 

cruadbristi  3486;  v.n.  arna  cruaidh- 

brisedh  3677. 
crúaid-cenglaim  I  bind  securely.  Pret. 

3  s.  rochruaid-cheangail  1052. 
crúaid-chridech  hard-hearted.  Co  ceal- 

gach  cruadchrideach  4533. 
crúaid-crechtnaigim  /  wound  severely. 

P. p. p.    na    cuirp    crodcrechtnaigthi 

4004. 
crúaid-gér  hard  and  sharp  871,  1222, 

2066,  3070. 
cruaid-irgal  f.  a  hard  contest  2874. 
crúaid-ledrad  cruel  mangling.    Ar  na 

c.  2098,  3278. 
crúaid-rind  ha  rd  point.  'Ma  chruadriud 

a  chlaidim  4189. 
cruaid-sciath  m.  a  hard  shield  969. 
crúaid-tescad  m.  cutting  hard,  rending 

3325. 
cruind,  cruinn  round  468;  iter  da  sliab 

chruindi   2269 ;    cathbarra   cruinne 


354 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


1273;   na  clocha  cruindi  1984;    do 

gernaib  cruindi  2215. 
cruind-lethan  round  and  broad.  Sciath 

coninart  cruindleathan  3402. 
cruind-sciath  m.  a   round  sltield.    Fa 

chruindsciath   taidlech    taitnemach 

fair  4438 ;  crundsciath  1455,  1550. 
cruinne  f.  the  globe,  tin-  round  world 

1300 ;  fogragad  na  cruinne  1285,  275 ; 

ua  ceatharairdib  na  cruindi  568 ;  co 

corugluais  in  cruindi  3040.    P.H. 
cruit,  crot  f.  harp.    A  chruit  851;  ac 

sirsenm  a  cbruiti  2313;  ua  cheol  a 

chruiti-sium  852. 
cruithnecht  f.  wheat.   Bairgen  cruith- 

nechta  467. 
cruitire  m.  harper,  harpist.    Ceolbind 

cruitiri  3954,  1946;  in  cruitire  coel- 

bind  2023;  n.p.  ua  cruitireda  ceol- 

bindi  2675. 
cruthach  shapely,  beautiful  658;   fir- 

cbrutbach  756. 
cú  m.  dog.    In  cu  599,  2926;  cu  allaid 

u-olf:    do  chonaib  allta  1883;    d.s. 

arin  coin  606;   n.p.  coin  540;  g.p. 

fa  chuanartaib  con  allaid  4588,  4639, 

3412 ;  fa  conaib  7  etbaidib  na  Teibi 

3980. 
cúairt  f.  circle,  ring.    A  bimpod  ima 

cuairt  2471;   'ma  cuairt  round  him 

986,  1150. 
cúan m.  haven,  harbour.   Ca cuan  no  ca 

caladport  309  ;  i  crichib  cuain  3405 ; 

dochum  cbuain   2014;   co  hockraib 

cuan  7  calath  3521. 
cúanart  f.  pack  of  hounds  or  ivolves. 

Douanic  c.  515 ;  iter  cuanairt  1882 ; 

cuanarta  3411,  540;  fa  chuanartaib 

con  4588;  do  chuanartaib  crassacha 

con  4639.    C. 
cuanna,  cuanda  handsome,  neat,  comely 

1147,   1197;   an   fer   cuanda   1065; 

cruaid-sciatb  cuanda  969,  2866;  mac 

rig  cuanda  3308,  346,  1585,  4827; 

don  fbid  chuanda  2210,  2849. 
cúar  crooked,    bent.     A.p.    a    asnada 

cuara  1017.    C. 
cuasmor    hollow.     Fetana    cuasmora 

2225. 
cubachail  bed,  L.  cubiculum.  I  c.  328. 
cubaid,  com-fid  harmonious,  agreeing, 

fitting.    As  cubaid  do  beith-siu  4425 ; 

co  nar-ba  cubaid  comraitb  4051 ;  bid- 
am   cubaid-sea   2711;    uair  cubaid 

comraid  559 ;  pi.  nir-ba  cuibdi  cath- 

aigtbi  leis  isin  áiti  saigdi  3938. 
cubar  m.  foam,  froth.   Bisna  cethaib 

comgela  cubair  2341;  risna  caeboib 

coemckubair  3066.    C. 
cudruma,     cu-truma     having     equal 

weight,  equally  important  1588. 


cuibdef.  Harmon y ,  intimacy .  Tre cuibdi 
a  comaid  4035. 

cuibrech,  cumrech  binding,  fetter.  A.p. 
a  cuibrigi  213. 

cuibrigim  /  bind,  Pret.  3  s.  co  rochuib- 
rig  2935,  rocuibrig  2567;  p.p.  3  p. 
rochuibrigid  4750 ;  rachuibrigid  1294. 

cuicel  f.  distaff'.  Cuigeal  cona  cuigeal- 
lach  the  distaff  with  its  prepared  flax 
or  wool  1320  H.B. ;  ag  imarchur  na 
cuigili  1322.    C. 

cuicer,  v.  cóicer. 

cuich  who,  which.  Cuich  in  dune  1465 ; 
c.  as  neasa  dib  1673  ;  cuidh  an  duine 
3770 ;  cuich  sib  fein  420 ;  cuich  sibsi 
556,  8;  cuich  roopabad  676;  cuich 
ar  bad  tor  na  muir  thana  4240. 

cuid  f.  portion,  share.  A  chuid  dona 
cluichib  2580 ;  ima  chuid  1344. 

cuiderán  accompaniment,  strain,  hum. 
Bogab  a  chuideran  noeidean  92.  Cf. 
ni  cuitir  ataidbsen  Ml.  128411,  Wb. 
3a6 ;  O'Dav.  No.  410,  507 ;  cuidreach 
in  partnership  McA. ;  caidir  cherish 
McB. ;  cuidri,  cuidridh  entertain- 
ment, diet  O'B. 

cuidh  who?  Cuidh  an  duine  3770.  V. 
cuich. 

cúil  f .  nook,  corner,  recess,  grasp.  A  cuil 
a  cheemduirind  976.    C. 

cuilén  m.  whelp,  cub.  Amal  cuilen 
letarthach  leoman  3763;  'ma  chui- 
lenaib  4018 ;  da  culenaib  1888. 

cuimlengaigim,  cuiblengaigim  (com- 
ling-)  I  fight,  struggle  with,  contest. 
Pret.  3  s.  rochuiblengaig  4581. 

cuimnigim  I  remember.  Pres.  3 p.  ni 
cuimnighit  3667,  ni  chuimnigid  4920 ; 
ipv.  2  s.  cuimnig  1113;  3  s.  cuim- 
nighedh  4661;  2  p.  cuimnigid  1859; 
2  fut.  3  s.  cia  tra  dochuimnigkfed 
3568;  pret.  2  s.  rochuimnigis  4552; 
v.n.  ca  cuimnechad  do  Iunaind  3895 ; 
ua  minic  lesi  cuimniugud  1935,  3947, 
4285.    C.,  P.H. 

cuing  f .  yoke.  Ua  chuing  adbail  212 ; 
eter  chuingib  an  charpaid  3960. 

cuingid  m.  champion.  Ua  subach  in 
cuingid  sin  1438;  g.s.  ar  toirnem 
chuingida  1098;  n.p.  as  iad  ua 
cuingid  chatha  1408, 1466,  cuingedha 
Eg. ;  na  cuingeada  381 ;  d.p.  fer  da 
chuingeadaib  891. 

cuipris  f.  cypress.  Don  fhid  chuanda 
cuibrisc  2849,  caprisc  Eg.    P.H.,  C. 

cuirim  I  put,  place,  wage.  Pres.  rel.  an 
trath  cbuireas  1296 ;  3  s.  co  cuireand 
2164;  ipv.  2  s.  cuir  1029, 1917,  cuir- 
seo  me  2958;  3  p.  na  cuirid  risna  T. 
do  not  rouse  2844;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  co 
cuired  259,  co  nach  cuiread  1257; 


• 


355 


23— S 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


ipf.  3  p.  irna  cuirtis  2212,  ar  nach 
cuirdis  3997 ;  pret.  2  s.  rochuiris  1043 ; 
3  s.  rochuireastar  633,  rochuir  de  he 
he  doffed  it  2437,  rochuir  953,  rachuir 
1155,  doehuir  867,  1255,  cor-cuir 
1691,3320,3393;  3p.rochuirset  2870, 
4,dochuirsedar  1292,  rochuirsed  4299, 
dochuirsed  4737;  p.  pres.  subj.  co 
cuirer  4891 ;  2  fut.  3  s.  co  cuirfithea 
2626;  p.p.  rochuiread  a  miasa  484, 
rocuired  in  cath  798,  1692,  2414, 
dochuiread  1295,  dachuiread  2721; 
v.n.  ac  cur  áir  3778,  do  chur  892, 
do  cur  4133,  ar  cur  ar  n-áir  1005, 
an  cath-sa  do  chur  1077,  'ga  indisi 
a  chuir  fein  1102. 

cuith  where  ?  33. 

CÚ1  back.  Ar  culu  backwards  1921, 
2584,  2587,  3269,  4052 ;  ar  cula  2819 ; 
da  culaib  3772. 

cul-scal,  cum-scal  Eg. ,  moving,  stirring 
1296.  Cumhsgal  .i.  gluasachd  nó  cor- 
rughadb  O'Cl. 

cuma  equal,  same,  indifferent,  as  soon 
as,  at  the  same  time.  Is  e.  roraid 
2126,  2325,  2853,  3614;  is  c.  doraid- 
sium  4544 ;  is  c.  adbert  sin  7  ronocht 
3390,  3680,  4242,  4791;  conid  cuma 
leis  4019;  is  cumai  tuc  D.  3829;  7 
cuma  roraidsed  sin  3307 ;  is  cumma 
nolenad  2357 ;  7  cuma  rabadar-sum 
4418 ;   is  cuma  conriadad  2282. 

cuma  (cum-be)  cutting  out,  shaping, 
fashioning  1321 ;  ar  na cuma 4440.  C. 

cuma  f .  grief,  sorroiv.  7  cuma  a  charat 
chomaind  air  4330 ;  ni  hi  tra  cuma 
do  munntiri  4379 ;  do  scur  a  chuma 
2207;  re  crad  na  cumad  3395;  ceo 
cumad  4702;  re  confad  na  cumad 
2208 ;  ré  méd  na  cumad  4051 ;  ceo 
comdorcha  cumad  dar  a  rose  3367 ; 
do  chumaid  a  mac  4578,  4913. 

cumachta  i.jiower,  supernatural  power . 
N.s.  1074, 1309,  3626 ;  rarim  a  chum- 
achta  1212;  tred  chumachta-su 
3178;  tre  chumachtaib  na  ndee 
4735;  is  mor  do  dheibh  coema 
cumachta  3609. 

cumachtach  (1)  powerful.  Masad  cum- 
achtaig  ar  saignenaib  4261;  luibi 
cumacbtacha  1156,  1264  ;  robo  cum- 
achtach 3612,  4370.  (2)  having 
supernatural  powers.  Ni  ha  caruit 
cumachtaig  ele  3673,  1076,  4246,  7; 
fleisc  cumachtaich  589;  célmanaig- 
theoir  c.  3915 ;  (3)  m.  magician  3570 ; 
is  e  mo  chlaidem  as  c.  dam  4064. 

cumaid,  com-buid  f .  a  being  with,  com- 
panionship. G.s.  bad  caraid  cumtha 
2318,  1375  (sic  corr.);  Ian  cumtha 
3838.    C. 


cumaide,  cummaide  cut  out,  shapen, 
sliapely.  Taitnem  a  cathbarr  cairn 
cumaidi  2866;  a  cathbairr  choema 
chummaidi  3071;  a  carpaid  caema 
cumaidi  2366 ;  co  colpthaib  cumaidib 
732.    C. 

cumaim  I  shape,  form,  fix.  P.p.  3  p. 
rochumaid  1274  ;  raluath-chumaid 
were  moulded  1276;  v.n.  cumad:  g.s. 
cumtha  485.    Laws. 

cumain  memory,  recollection.  An  cu- 
main  let  4429. 

cumaing,  nir-cumaing,  v.  conicim. 

cumair  short,  brief  with  gen.  ua  cumair 
comraid  7  imacallma  iad  378.    Aur. 

cumaiscim  I  mix  with,  commingle .  Pret. 
3  p.  rocbumaiscseadar  1963 ;  v.n.  'ga 
cumasc  2161. 

cumand  m.  companionship,  fellowship. 
Dobeth  in  cumand  ut  2682 ;  tre  cuibdi 
a  comaid  4035,  cuiphe  a  cumainn 
Eg. ;  1037 ;  cuma  a  charat  chomaind 
air  4330;  cuimniugad  comand  a 
curad  3947.    C. 

cum-ang,  cum-ung  narrow,  congested. 
Comma  curnang  3084;  fa  cumang 
croda  comnaidi  T.  981;  pi.  ger-ua 
cumgai  na  doirsi  3866 ;  bruigi  cairr- 
geacha  cumga  na  Teibi  836. 

cumascda  mixed,  troubled  2337,  2798, 
2934,  3406,  3426;  comascda  4514; 
comuscdha  3633;  co  c.  1712. 

cumdach,    cumtach    building.     Arna    -i- 
cumtach  849;  ac  cumdach  74. 

cumdaigim  (1)  I  build.  P.  ipv.  3  s.  V 
cumdaigther  38 ;  p.p.  rochumdaigh- 
edh  76,  771;  risar-chumdaigead 
850;  p.p.p.  cumdaigthi  708.  (2)  I 
adorn.  P.p.  rochumdaigit  702;  pret. 
3  s.  rochumdaig  1382;  p.p.p.  cum- 
daigthi 3204. 

cumnaide,  v.  comnaide. 

cumsanad  m.  rest  1146,  3897;  can 
chumsanadh  1095;  ina  comsonad 
1171. 

cumscaigim  I  shake.  Pres.  3  s.  co 
rrocumscaigi  3621 ;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  co 
cumscaiged  311;  p.p.  co  racum- 
seaigid  4420;  v.n.  cumscugud  3445. 

cumtach  m.  (1)  ornament.  7  cumtach 
alaind  orda  ima  bragait  754 ;  co  roibi 
in  cumdach  comthnudach  colach  sin 
ac  I.  786 ;  dorigni  in  cumdach  n-orda 
759 ;  dona  cumdaigib  3072.  (2)  dress. 
Corp  7  cumthach  4699,  eomdach  Eg. 

cumtachta(l)  built,  well-made.  Soighdi 
cumdachta  3759;  cathbarra  c.  1273, 
1436.  (2)  ornamented.  C.á'oTji'ex- 
gad  486. 

cumtaig  likely,  proper,  powerful.  An 
comlin  curad  c.   1307;  dona  cumd- 


356 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


thaib  Eg.  3072.    The».  Pal.  i.  449, 
note  o;  and  Supplement. 

cumtha,  v.  coin-buid. 

cumthachxid/,  sorrowful.  Batoirrseack 
cumthach  3913 ;  is  cumthach  rno 
chridi-si  4564 ;  ba  chumthach  4644 ; 
comthach  4711;  ar  comrath  cum- 
thach 4680;  co  cumtach  4911;  co 
cumthach  4181,  4646;  v.s.  a  chum- 
thaig  1-249. 

cumthach  m.  companion.  Ar  carait  na 
ar  c.  3482 ;  can  cuirp  a  carad  7  a 
cumthach  4620. 

cumthanus  m.  fellowship  4900.    The. 

cum-ung  narrow  part,  narrowness.  Ro- 
gabad  c.  conaire  3275. 

cun  unto.  Cunchathugud  4220.  Acall. 
xrv.  4. 
x*-    cundail  decent,  discreet,  honest  1623, 
2186. 

cur  m.  champion,  hero.  Co  fheraind 
comlann  7  an  curad  sin  4382;  da 
beimindaib  claidim  an  curad  sin 
4209 ;  comairle  in  curad  sin  241 ;  ar 
mbreith  choscair  an  churad  so  4500, 
4279;  a  cnis  an  curad  sin  991, 1093; 
cend  in  churad  3317;  n.p.  na  curaid 
sin  1340,  2204,  4346;  d.p.  a  curadaib 
1547,  iter  na  curadaib  4475,  lesna 
curadaib  2367,  ag  na  curadaib  4449; 
a. p.  curadu  2715,  curaid  3949;  g.p. 
in  coici  curad  3258, 1696,  an  coimlin 
curad  sin  894,  2016,  a  coindi  na 
curad  932,  cathbairr  cen  curadu  3050. 

curach  m.  coracle,  boat.  Cuir  ina 
curach  e  1917. 

curad -chomlond  m.  heroic  contest.  Ro- 
chuir-seom  c.  3098. 

curaid  m.  hero,  champion  953 ;  o  ro- 
comraicedar  in  da  curaid  2894.  V. 
córaid. 

curata  heroic  713,  877,  1491,  4064, 
4150,  4583;  curita  1727  curata  Eg., 
3150  curuta  Eg.;  curada  1179. 

curchanach  bushy  929.  Curcach  un- 
ke>npt,  bushy  Din. 

curita  numerous  1727.  Cuire  f.  troop. 
FeW 

cuthach  rage,  fury,  madness  804.    C. 

dá  m.f.  two.  Da  tharb  trena  tnuacha 
1617;  da  ech  ailli  oengela2290;  ba 
hiad  da  chathraig  1588;  urchur  da 
ga  2896 ;  ceachtar  a  da  lam  532 ;  iter 
a  da  laim  1014,  1017;  7  a  da  laim 
1892;  iter  da  sliab  chruindi  2269; 
rucus-sa  da  mac  2035 ;  ar  do  in  two 
3162;  bá  dó  twice  4476;  fá  dó  4809. 

da,  do  +  a,  v.  dia. 

dáenna,  dóenda  human.  Nochadsenna 
do  delb  1768. 


dáer,  dóer  not  free,  captive.  Tuc  ban- 
chumail  ndoair  do  seic  2421. 

daescur-sluag  m.  common  people, 
rabble  4454,  4870;  dirmanda  does- 
cursluaig  2229,  2802,  3220;  tresna 
doBscurshluagaib  190;  n.p.  deescur- 
shluaigl831,  2265. 

daig-brised,  arna  d.  furiously  broken 
3862;  daig-echtach  doing  furious 
deeds  3169.  Daig  fire,  Aur.,  C.C., 
O'Cl. 

daig-remar  goodly  and  thick  1004. 

daingen  (1)  firm,  fast,  strong.  Is  í  mo 
deslam  daithgel  daingean  4063;  co 
daingean  1150.  (2)  stronghold,  for- 
tress.  Din  na  daingen  2740. 

daingnigim  I  strengthen,  secure.  Ipv. 
2  p.  daingniged  1857;  pass.  3  p. 
daingnigter  4074;  p.p.  3  p.  rodaing- 
nigid  1268, 1279,  3501;  v.n.  agdaing- 
niubad  4101 ;  ac  daingnigud  1978. 

dair  f.  oak.  Dair  barrlom  2310;  ad- 
connairc  dair  dosach  3696 ;  ua  dosaib 
darach  513 ;  dogeb-sa  dairgi  dossacha 
4273. 

dáire,  dóire  f.  bondage,  captivity.  I 
ndairi2154.   Wi. 

daithe  f.  nimblcness,  swiftness.  Re 
daithi  2335.    C. 

daithin  satiety.  Dogebthai  uar  ndai- 
thin2577,  daothain  Eg.  Lordaothain 
Ir.  T.  11.  2.  135.   Daothain  f.  Din. 

dál,  dáil  f.  tryst,  waiting  for,  way- 
laying. Do  dalaigh  912;  im  dail  a 
mbraithrech  concerning  their  brothers 
3229. 

dála  (pi.  of  dál)  concerning  147 ;  dala 
Argia  mná  P.  4752;  dala  na  nGrec 
4621;  ma-dala  1703;  a  ndala-sum 
coruigi  sin  2630. 

dalb  falsehood,  fiction.  Rogab  dalb 
aisi  beodachta  aenmacaem  3571;  .i. 
brég,  Cor.  Tr.  59,  G. 

dall  blind.  Ge  mmad  dall  1624;  an 
seanoir  dall  4556. 

dallaim  I  blind.  P.p.  is  airi  rodallad 
1625;  o  radallad  he  2996;  v.n. 
dallad:  g.s.  a  haithli  a  dalta  2994. 

dalta  m.  fosterling  1572,  1763,  1783. 

daltán  m.  fosterling  2058. 

darn  m.  band,  company,  party.  Risna 
damaib  sin  2028;  n.p.  doimh  p.  xv. 

damaim  I  accommodate  myself  to,  I 
allow,  suffer.  Pret.  3  s.  ni  rodamu- 
stair  do  Thid  it  was  not  fitting  for  T. 
845 ;  v.n.  da  damthain  damsa  4430. 
P.H. 

dana  two.  Rothuitsed  an  dana  brathair 
1020 ;  in  dana  derbrathair  1456  Eg. ; 
robeansad  ris  in  dana  curaid  2876. 
C. 


357 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


*c 


dána  bold.  T.  dana  669;  is  dana  dit 
2139. 

danarda  Danish,  foreign,  rough,  fierce 
1523,  3424,  3502.    Din. 

dano  however,  besides,  likewise,  indeed 
570,  1443,  1778. 

dar,  tar  over:  prep,  with  ace,  but  dat. 
pi.  Dar  mullach  1177;  tar  mur  na 
Teibi  4280,  4832;  dar  dorus  na 
Teibi  4419 ;  dar  crichaib,  dar  bruigib 
1176;  dar  in  sruth  sin  1531,  2728, 
3517,  3567;  dar  in  recbt  3343;  dar 
eoehar-bordaib  1167;  dar  in  dorus 
n-ard  3025,  7 ;  dar  na  bruigib  263 ; 
tarsna  b.  1089;  dar  craebaib  910; 
3  s.m.  gan  dul  tairis  sin  2723,  3392, 
3737,  3758,  4080;  dara  eiss  3007, 
3189 ;  dara  ais  4011 ;  f.  tair-side  505 ; 
tara  rose  4702;  dara  sarugud-si 
3848 ;  in  spite  of  1059 ;  for  the  sake 
of  tar  cend  4166,  4585;  dar  cend 
4168 ;  dar  do  chend  4375 ;  tar  chend 
choscair  4355 ;  tar  m'  eis  4345 ;  3  p. 
tbairsib  2705 ;  tairsib  4159. 

dara,  ind  ala  the  other,  second.  An 
dara  fecht  4718 ;  is  e  a  atbair  in  dara 
fir  dib  araili  2684;  in  dara  cend... in 
cend  aile  the  one. ..the  other  591;  an 
dara  fecht... an  fecht  araili  at  one 
time... at  another  3748;  antan  ro- 
marbsat  munter  T.  an  dara  fer  dib 
4037. 

darna,  ind-ala-n-ái  the  other  of  them, 
second.  In  darna  fecht  239,  2072, 
2463 ;  in  darna  fer  556. 

dásacht  f.  madness  1314,  1652,  1840, 
2345,  4572,  4884. 

dásachtach  mad,  furious  152,  182, 
1614, 3272,  3732,  3885, 4418.  Co  dur 
dasachtach  (sic  corr.)  3562;  v.s.  a 
duni  dasachtaich  2129;  co  d.  2071; 
co  debeil  d.  3550;  tigri  diana 
dasachtacha  2774. 

dásachtacht  f.  madness.  Is  mór  in 
diumus  7  in  d.  3778. 

dásachtaigim  I  become  mad.  Ipf.  3  s. 
rodasachtaiged  im  C.  2529. 

dathach  coloured  201. 

dath-álaind  having  a  beautiful  colour, 
splendid  2058,  2842,  2865. 

dath-cháem  having  a  beautiful  colour 
1643. 

dath-cháin  having  a  beautiful  colour. 
Dillaitt  dathchiiin  4436 ;  delba  dath- 
chaine  714  ;  ger-ba  dathchain  3216. 

dath-gel  bright  coloured.  Inn  og  di- 
gaind  dathgel  692 ;  corp  daithgel 
2438 ;  is  1  mo  deslam  daithgel  4063. 

dath-glan  having  a  bright  colour  1166. 

Dative  abs.  Maccaib  braithrib  aithrib 
1858.    V.  Apposition. 


datta,  data  pleasing,  comely,  goodly 
389,  1993,  2272,  3072;  compar. 
datu  384. 

dauiccim  I  understand  1681. 

de  from.  Kochuir  a  erred  de  2239 ;  de 
sin  hence  2456,  3460,  4488;  ba  failid 
a  haigned  de  4722;  1  s.  rodligis 
dimsa  3375;  2  s.  cuir  dit  t'  ecla 
1360,  3441;  3  s.  de  of  him  1202, 
1898,  from  him  3681,  3792  ;  3  s.f. 
dotairling  di  3552 ;  3  p.  ar  mo  dul-sa 
dib  843,  4;  duine  dib  922;  dib  sin 
958;  each  dib  1848,  4002;  ca  hole 
dib  1890. 

déacht  f.  divinity,  godhead.  Asa 
deacht  2319. 

de-áith  slothful,  lazy,  timid  2266. 
C,  C.C. 

Dean  f.  Diana.  O  rodeilig  Deana  ris 
3817 ;  o  'dchonnairc  in  bandei  Dean 
sin  3713 ;  rofrecair  Dean  3721,  3723 ; 
Deana  do  beth  ac  cungnam  3801 ; 
do  dhenum  idhbartadoDean  3691, 6 ; 
eo  tempul  Dean  3703 ;  ag  edarguidhi 
Dean  3704;  dochum  Deana  3806; 
v.s.  a  Dean  3705;  a  Dheán  3808. 

debaid,  de-buid  f.  discord,  strife. 
Leigid  damsa  d.  mo  brathar  1133; 
can  debaid  4413 ;  ca  fath  bar  ndeb- 
tha  421;  rofobair  P.  debaid  agmar 
3165. 

debed  strife.  Deued  439;  na  taidbli 
deaftha  4243.    C. 

debil  tender-mouthed,  restive,  impa- 
tient, restless.  Co  debil  866,  3550. 
Daeibili,  Gor. 

debile,  daeibile  tender-mouthedness, 
restiveness.  Ac  daeibili  1384;  ac 
debili  3493;  rogab  daebili  2346. 
Daeibili,  Gor. 

decclm,  di-in-ci  I  look  at,  see.  Pret. 
3  s.  rodech  560,  rofech  Eg. ;  v.n.  do 
dechain  2398,  dfechain  Eg. 

dechad  going  from,  departure.  Do 
dechad  3186,  do  dul  Eg. 

dé-chosta  two-footed  159,  165. 

dedail  a  separating,  seiiaration.  De- 
dail  na  deisi  sin  4472. 

dedgaire  f.  activity,  quickness,  swift- 
ness 2403,  doighaire  Eg.    C. 

degaid,  di-saigid  after :  prep,  with  gen. 
A  ndeagaid  theithid  na  T.  968, 
1579 ;  i  ndegaid  sin  1012 ;  'na 
degaid  1062,  1382;  'na  deagaid 
1785. 

deg-cenél,  deccenel  good  race,  good 
family.  Deccenel  666;  g.s.  fa  derr- 
scaigtheach  degcineoil  an  cethrar 
956. 

deg-cuimneachad  m.  kindly  remem- 
brance.   'Ca  d.  4220. 


358 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


deg-daingen  goodly  and  firm,  very 
strong.  Cod. 966;  buidnedluithideg- 
daingne  1446. 

deg-dathad  m.  well-bestowing,  welU 
shaping.  Arna  degbdathad  3735. 
Datbadh  .i.  tiodblacadb  O'Cl. 

deg-denmach  well-shaped,  goodly- 
fashioned  692,  714;  deigdenmach 
2438,  4436. 

deg-duine  goodly  num.  Drem  do  deg- 
dainib  2001. 

deg-fhearand  m.  goodly  estate  660. 

deg-láech  m.  goodly  hero.  Ua  diurn- 
sacb  in  deglateh  2021 ;  corp  in  deg- 
laicb  2438. 

deg-lámach  good  at  his  hands,  dex- 
terous 1993. 

deg-remur  goodly  and  stout.  Deigre- 
mur  389  ;  do  buaib  data  deigremra 
2272. 

deg-slúag  m.  goodly  host.  Cacb  drem 
degsluaig  2640, 1496,  4435 ;  difhoill- 
sigud  in  deagsluaig  1716;  dirmanda 
degsluaig  2121 ;  dirmanda  no  deg- 
sluaig 3386;  dona  degsluagaib  sin 
1978,  3866. 

deichnibar  ten  persons.  7  d.  maraén 
ré  each  fer  dib  3933.  Deichenbor 
Wi. 

deig-fhisid  m.  good  seer  1624. 

deig-rindad  well  engraved  1485. 

deig-rith  good  running.  Ua  dual  am 
deigrith  2432;  g.s.  as  adj.:  arna 
balltaib  diana  deigretha  2434;  ro- 
chumdaig  a  ara  a  eocbo  diana 
deigretba  1383;  eich  degbredbtha 
3862;  grega  diana  degretha  2275, 
2293. 

deilgneach  thorny  896. 

deiligim  I  part  with,  sever,  distinguish. 
Fret.  3  s.  ó  rodeilig  D.  ris  3817 ; 
3  p.  rodeiligset  3864,  2551,  4180; 
p.  pres.  3  s.  roiterdeligtber  re  each 
3827  ;  p.p.p.  deiligtbe  diverse  4921 ; 
deilitbi  conspicuous  3023;  v.n.  ac 
deligud  524. 

deimin,  demin  (1)  certainty.  O  cualaig- 
sium  a  d.  3364.  (2)  certain.  Ua 
demin  leis  3815. 

déine.  déne  f.  swiftness,  speed.  A  deini 
2403. 

déinmech  energetic,  sivift.  Ua  dluith 
deinmech  2334;  na  heich  diana 
deinmetha  2364;  ba  denmech  in 
mareach  isin  2356. 

deithbir  natural,  right  3532. 

delb  f .  form,  shape.  N.s.  delb  mna  523; 
delb'l.  2261;  dealb  4826,  co  ndelb 
1416,  deilbb  Eg. ;  do  deilb  7  do 
denam  2389;  a.s.  delb  619,  1673; 
deilb  621;   roghabh  delbb  D.  3791, 


3 ;    ragab   deilb  a   bancheili   4327 ; 

n.p.  delba  1461,  2273,  2296,  3030; 

dealba    4825 ;     ar    cosmaileacbt    a 

ndelba  3125;  co  ndelbaib  1455,  3577. 
delbda  shapely,  beautiful  496. 
del(a)igim  I  part  with.    Pret.  3  s.  o 

radealaig  4183 ;  rodelaig  4739 ;  3  p. 

dodealaigsed    4671;     v.n.    delugud 

1583 ;  cen  delugud  1797.  V.  deiligim. 
deligthech  distinct.    Deiligtbech  207, 

4921  Eg. 
dellrad  m.  brilliance,  blaze,  brightness. 

D.    na   n-arm    sliptha    173Í ;    acht 

mad  dellrud  diada  1768;  dellrad  na 

sleigi  sin  3787 ;  dellrud  na  diadacbta 

783;  7  dellrad  sceitb  D.  3819. 
delradach     (1)    bright,    shining    471 

2842,  2864.    (2)  brightness.    Dellrad 

acha  3072. 
demnacda    diabolical,    fiendish     190 

(7.(7. 
demnach  demoniacal,  devilish  604,  749 

1641,    4418;    ar   muntir    iidemnaig 

1652,  152;  ic  faicsin  a  dreichi  deam 

naige  193;  demnech  521. 
demon  m.  demon,  devil.    A. p.  for  n.p 

demna  2742. 
dend-gal  f.  dust.    Ee  dendgail  2338 

Dend  dust,  snuff,  powder  P.  O'C. 

C. 
dénmach     built,    fashioned,    shapely 

Compar.    denmaigi  384,  denmnaigi 

Eg.    Cf.  dénam,  g.s.  denma  Tbc. 
dénmech  idle,  vain,  capricious,  frivo 

lous,  restless.  Dsescursluaig  denmech 

deaith  2266.    G. 
dénmide  f.  haste,  speed.   Ee  denmidi 

2336. 
denmne    f.    impatience,   hurry,   speed 

Eogab  denmne   7  dasacht  hé  4572 

a,  c.c. 

denmnedach.  impatient,  hasty,  speedy 

sivift.    1  ua  denmnedach  2356  Eg. : 

co  denmnedacli  2730,  3587;  co  dian 

deinmnedach  187. 
deocn  f.  drink  1802. 
deoid,  fo  deoid  at  last  2353. 
deóin  will,  consent,  only  with  do.  Dum 

deoin   fen   of  my  own  accord  550; 

da  dheoin  819 ;  da  deoin  1161, 1501, 

2768. 
deóna  human  3344,  deonnda  Eg.    Cf. 

dóenna  P.H. 
deprecóit  prayer,  entreaty.    Na  geb-sa 

do  dera  ina  do  debrogoid  1028. 
dér  tear.    Comdis  fliuch  iad  do  deraib 

3711;    g.p.    frasa    der    724;    frasa 

diana  der  1374,  2326  ;  a. p.  na  geb-sa 

do  dera  1028. 
derb-airde  a  sure  sign,  portent.   Ni  fuil 

derbairdi  3233;  derbairdeada  1228; 


359 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


p.  derbaiirdeda  1610,  2719,  3817  (sic 
corr.) ;  derbairdida  1317.    C. 

derbráthair  m.  brother  german  1896 
n.  dual :  it  e  adam  derbrathair  2681 
4315;  g.s.  indsi  dearbrathar  2050 
g.p.  eosmailius  na  desi  sin  derbra 
thar  2679 ;  cairdess  na  deisi  derbra 
thar  sin  4521 ;  amal  bad  fialchairdi 
diles  dearbrathar  do  iad  3348;  do 
thinninus  na  da  derbrathar  sin  4315. 

derb-shiur  f.  sister  qerman.  Deirbfiur 
2645  ;  derfiur  3202 ;  ara  derbshiair-si 
1862.    C. 

dercháintech  desjxiiring,  hopeless.  Co 
cumtach  toirsech  d.  4911. 

dered  end.  Tanic  dered  dun  lo  265 ;  is 
deread  don  aidcbi  4730 ;  derid  aidchi 
1346 ;  co  dered  in  domuin  2185 ;  co 
deread  n-aimsiri  2920 ;  p.  xv. 

derg  red.  Equative:  dergither  losa 
liac  479. 

derg-lassadm.«  red  flaming.  Ard.4273. 

derg-ór  m.  red  gold.  Cimas  do  dergor 
2497. 

dérgud  m.  making  of  a  bed,  a  Led.  Ee 
dergud  imdad  462. 

dermaitim  /  forget.  Pret.  1  s.  da  ra- 
dermaitius  tu  2108.    Di-ro-moniur. 

der-már,  der-mór  very  great,  huge  280, 
500,724;  dermár  1775 ;  derniár  748 ; 
dermháir  813,  941;  ua  dermair985; 
re  hirgail  neoil  dorcha  dermairi  3083; 
do  sleig  dighuinn  dermair  3786. 

deróil  mean,  feeble.   Ua  dereoil  790. 

derrit  hidden,  secret.  In  nd-inad  ndia- 
muir  nderrit  654;  compar.  ua  der- 
ride  456. 

derscaigim  I  excel,  surpass.  Pret.  3  s. 
rodearscaich  dib  uile  3252. 

derscaigthech  distinguished,  excellent 
670;  derrscaigthech  207,  660,  841 
dersenaigthech  Eg.,  956,  1763 
dearrscaigtbeach  564;  sleg  d.  1518 
compar.  ba  he  I.  ba  derrscaigth 
delb2440.    C.C. 

des  (1)  right.  Co  roben  a  lairn  ndes  on 
gualaind  3107;  ina  lairn  deis  4017. 
(2)  south.  Bhu  dhes  4905;  ua  deas 
697;  aneas  from  the  S.  1231,  andes 
Eg. 

des-cert  m.  the  South.  Iar  ndescert 
206,  1396. 

déscin,  by  metathesis  for  déicsin  (di- 
in-ci)  seeing.    'Ca  descain  1906. 

desid  he  sat,  decided.  Pf.  3  s.  desid 
2640;  deisid  ina  rigda  4610;  is  fair 
desid  leo  4136;  3  p.  deisitar  ina 
longportaib  2188. 

des-lám  í.  right  hand.  Is  í  mo  deslam 
4062. 

dét-gel  having  white  teeth  731. 


dia  m.  god.  Masa  dei  misi  3610;  dea 
in  mara  2405 ;  cia  iter  in  dia  2321 ; 
a  n-ebairt  dea  na  faistine  2179 ;  dei 
dodenamdoT.3329;  is  i  mo  deslam 
is  dee  damsa  4063 ;  tré  aslach  an  dei 
1180;  scela  an  dea  sin  1181,  2282; 
dochum  dea  an  chodalta  3899 ;  do 
dei  in  fhina  1614;  do  dee  na  tro- 
cairi4762;  amal  dea  2590;  n.p.  na 
dei  1291,  1743,4809;  na  dee  1076, 
1082;  a.p.  dee  1054;  na  dei  3352; 
v.p.  a  dei  nime  4499;  dee  4257; 
ar  na  dee  4407;  g.p.  tre  chu- 
machtaib  na  ndee  4736 ;  tre  mirbail 
na  ndéi  1626,  1644;  ic  admolad  na 
ndei  2314;  o  cenn  na  dei  3608;  f. 
dei  in  mara  3573 ;  re  deib  4222 ;  do 
bandeib  3197 ;  dona  deib  1070,  2219 ; 
o  deib  1702;  do  dheibh  3609;  ona 
deib  4227;  risna  deib  1116,  1295, 
lesna  deib  Eg. ;  ar  deib  2948. 

dia,  dia  n-,  do,  do  +  a,  do  +  a  n-  to, 
from:  with  pronominal  elements  a 
his,  a  n-  their.  Dá  eis  1099  ;  da  culaib 
7  da  aigid  7  do  each  taibh  de  3772 ; 
da  n-indsaigid  918;  da  ndibragad 
4274;  ca?  da  danic  3297;  da  cath- 
raig  1123  ;  cor-chuir  a  chathbarr  da 
chend  4276;  da  marbad  4833;  da 
rada  4379;  da  comergi  don  gleo 
3050 ;  da  mur  7  da  mullach  4245 ; 
da  echaib  2301;  da  thig  2303;  dá 
rig  bodein  886;  da  fuil  7  da  indib 
4190;  used  proleptically:  da  aslach 
7  da  furail  form  comergi  d'  indsaigid 
3020. 

dia  n-  (1)  if  with  subj.  (a)  pres.  da 
mbertar  oraind  1903 ;  (li)  da  inadh  e 
1049,  1055.  (2)  when  with  pf.  Da 
rauamar-ni  1849 ;  da  tanic  in  la  sin 
3047. 

diada  divine.  Dellrad  diada  1768; 
risna  haireachtaib  diadaib  consisting 
of  gods  576. 

diadacht  f.  divinity.  Dellrud  na  diad- 
achta  784. 

diaid  after.  A  ndiaid  a  mathar  2166, 
4550;  'na  diaid  sin  2292;  ina  diaid 
sec  2350;   'na  ndiaid  sin  2297. 

dí-áirme  countless.  Dí-áirmhe  820.    C. 

dí-áirmide  innumerable,  countless  500, 
1229. 

dí-áirmigthi  not  to  be  numbered,  count- 
less 3386,  4161,  4435,  4920. 

diamair  (1)  secret,  hidden,  concealed 
3758.  In  nd-inad  lidiamuir  653, 
3836;  ua  dosaib  diamraib  512; 
tresna  coilltib  clithirdiamraib  312; 
ar  chaethib  diamra  1905.  (2)  hidden, 
concealed  tiling.  Uachthir  diamraib  a 
etaich  1488 ;  compar.  fa  diamra  456. 


360 


VOCABULARY  AND  I^DEX 


diamar-dluith  hidden  and  dense  896, 
3758. 

dian  swift,  vehement,  intense  292, 
1338;  co  dian  866,  1740,  2071;  a 
ech  dian  3731;  eocho  diana  1383; 
grega  diana  2275 ;  frasa  diana  1374 ; 
7  a  mbuidni  diana  3424 ;  equative : 
deinigter  1084. 

dían-bádud  swift  or  sudden  drowning. 
Ba  ferr  leo  a  ndianbadud  3516. 

dian-brisim  I  quickly  break.  Pret.  3  s. 
cor-dianbris  a  druim  3675. 

di-anim  stainless,  unblemished  731. 

dian-marb  stark  dead.  Co  ma  dronga 
dianmarba  les  iad  2857 ;  co  dian- 
marb  3830. 

dian-marbad  m.  starkly  slaying.  Arna 
ndianmarbad  3863. 

dían-scáilim  I  tear,  rend,  wrest:  im 
from.  Ipf .  3  s.  arbithin  na  dianscailed 
3014;  pret.  3  s.  co  rodianscail  3162; 
3  p.  rodianscaileadar  4096 ;  rodian- 
scailsed  4738,  rodianscail  Eg. ;  p.p. 
rodianscailit  289,  3665;  p. p.p.  dir- 
mada  dianscailti  3133;  v.n.  dian- 
scailedh  4126;  aca  dianscailiudh 
3748;  dianscailiud  na  T.  iumum-sa 
1735;  aca  dianscailiud  1971. 

dían-scélach  keen  and  tale-bearing 
1606. 

dias  f.  two  persons,  couple.  In  dias 
sin  2167,  2318,  2477,  3120,  3;  tuc- 
sat  dias  aili  3416 ;  gein  no  co  riach- 
tadar  an  dias  so  4087;  adaltras  na 
deisi  sin  1054,  4317;  delba  na  desi 
2296;  do  gleó  na  deisi  sin  4457, 
664,  4464,  4472,  4521,  4557,  4740; 
nir  ferr  di  leisin  dis  sin  3977;  don 
dis  sin  4484;  uar  in  dis  sin  2323; 
risin  dis  3123. 

dí-ásaim  I  diminish,  shorten,  stunt. 
Gen  gor-thais  da  eneoch  2893.  Cf. 
do-íihm-Trf-"á"S&im,  Aur. 

di-berg  f.  brigandage,  rapine.  Ar  di- 
beirg94.    C. 

díbraicim,  v.  diúbraicim. 

dí-chéillid,  dí-chéillide  sense-bereft 
4602.    G. 

dí-chelta  concealed,  secret.  Co  d.  1906, 
3437.  Ua  dicheltai  uili  na  dirmanda 
sin  2336,  dichelta  Eg. 

di-chennaim  I  behead.  P.p.  3  s.  ro- 
dicbendad  4093;  p. p. p.  dichennta 
3593. 

di-chlethim  I  conceal.  P.p.p.  diclethi 
3593.  Di-chleth  f.  v.n.  of  do-celim. 
C.C. 

dichlim.  di-chelim  I  conceal.  Ipv.  2  p. 
dichlid  uisqui  1745.    Cf.  C,  C.C. 

di-choindirclech  merciless,  pitiless  604, 
890. 


di-chor  m.  putting  off,  driving  away. 
Ac  dichur  uaind  1973. 

dichra  earnest,  fee  rent,  eager.  Co 
dichra  4117. 

dichracht  f.  fervour,  earnestness.  15a 
he  dichracht  in  teichid  3514. 

didnim  I  protect.  P.p.  3  s.  rodidned 
he  2902;  co  ndidned  corp  1486; 
pres.  3  p.  radidnid  1279.    Laws. 

di-fhrecra  unanswerable,  incomparable, 
enormous.  Adconnairc  an  nathraigh 
ndigfrecra  61. 

di-foillsigthech  displaying  unexpected 
qualities.  Eoeha  d.  splendid  horses 
1084,  L.  nagrantes  Theb.  in.  317 
grian  d.  glorious  sun  1166.    P.H. 

di-foillsiugud  m.  disclosing,  mystery 
unexpected  resource  417,  985;  di 
fhoillsigud  1715.  P.H.  Contami 
nated  from  di-aillsigud  impetuosity 
C. 

di-fulaing  intolerable  281,  597. 

di-gaind  stout,  firm,  thick,  ample. 
Sleg  d.  1518;  do  sleig  dighuinn 
3786;  adconnairc  dair  dosach  di- 
ghuin  3696;  ua  dosaib  digaindi  512  ; 
inn  og  digaind  692.    Cym.  digawn. 

digair  vehement,  zealous,  fervent  1523, 
1605,  1614,  4454.    C.C. 

di-gal  f.  avenging ,  vengeance.  Is  truaigi 
lem  in  digal  855 ;  can  a  digail  1144 ; 
da  ndigail  2785,  7 ;  do  dhigail  3728 ; 
do  digail  1135,  3347;  da  digail  sin 
2540,  3600;  na  gona  digla  4551; 
derbairdida  digla  dermairi  1318  ;  do 
degail  oraind  1959,  3944;  do  digail 
bar  cend  ar  Créon  4660. 

dí-gbal  f.  diminishing.  G.s.  a  fearanda 
disli  digbala  685. 

diglaim  /  avenge.  Pres.  subj.  3  s.  co 
ndiglar  orra  1119;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  no 
co  ndiglad  3490 ;  3  p.  co  ndiglaidis 
33-55 ;  2  fut.  3  s.  co  ndigheolad  3833 ; 
pret.  3  s.  mar  dodigail  misi  3558 ; 
p.  fut.  3  s.  digeltar  ortsa  863;  v.n.  f. 
do  digailt  811,  3497,  3919.  Denom. 
from  digal. 

dil  a  satisfying.  Ni  tharaid  dil  a 
fhergi  dib  3153.    C. 

dilcennaigim  I  destroy.  Pret.  3  s.  ro- 
dilcennaig  3858 ;  a  denom.  from 
v.n.  'ca  ndilgend  3954.  Dilceun 
from  dilgend,  v/leg-. 

diles  proper,  one's  own,  pertaining  to, 
belonging  to.  Amal  bad  fialchairdi 
diles  3347;  m'  fherand  dileas  564; 
ar  grad  na  hatharrda  dilisi  2860, 
disle  Eg. ;  tar  eis  na  rig  rodileas 
4598 ;  o  a  n-anmandaib  dilsi  uadein 
2369,  1387;  with  metath. :  tucsad  a 
llama  disli  683  ;  a  fearanda  disli  685. 


361 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


dilgend  a  destroying  3954. 

diliu  f.  food.   G.s.'dileand  292,  1338; 

amal   norethidis  da  buindi   dileand 

3136;  tresinndilind281.   JEn.,S.B. 

2442. 
dillat  m.  saddle.   N.p.  dillaitt   dath- 

chain  4436. 
dilleacht   tresses.    Co  nathrachaib  ac 

deligud   a  dilleacbta   524 ;   frontem 

discriminat  anguis  Theb.  i.  600. 
>''     dilmain  empty, free,  permissible,  hatful. 

Ni  ba  dilmain  do  duine  4764. 
•<      dilmaine    f.  freedom  from    liability, 

emptiness,  vacuity  2527.    C,  Laws. 
dilse,  f.  forfeiture,   giving   one's   self 

away,  over-confidence  2527. 
dilsigim  I  forfeit,  abandon.    Pret.  3  p. 

rodilsigsed  3916. 
dilsiugud    m.    forfeiture,     surrender, 

abandoning.  Dil'lsiugud  1306.    C. 
di-luath   very   swift.     Na   buinnedba 

diana  diluatha  3583.    C. 
dí-máin  unprofitable,  vain,  useless  190, 

2531,  3410,  3453;  cer-ua  dimain  dó 

3821;  is  dimain  duitsi  3717;  ba  di- 
main   4196;    co   dimain    1067;    d' 

urchuraib  dimaine  3819. 
dí-míad  m.  disrespect,  dishonour  178. 
dimicen  f.   contempt  179;   is   dimigin 

1306;  ua  dereoil  7  dimicin  790. 
dí-mór  very  great,  huge,  vast.    Tresin 

ndilind  ndimoir  282;  ruisc  dimora 

2063.    C. 
din  defence,  shelter.   Na  ba  tairisi  leo 

din  na   daingen   2740;    nir-bo    din 

3286,  3292. 
ding-bairn,    do-in-gabim   I   ward    off, 

reject,    repel,    cast    off.    Fut.    1   pi. 

dingebamaid-ne   4368 ;    2  fut.   3  s. 

craet  rodingebad  546;  v.n. : — 
dingbál  f.  (1)  warding  off.  Ac  dingbail 

neich    dona  barmaib  sin  de    3290 ; 

min  bad  dei  do  dinguail  4287.    (2) 

g.s.  as  adj.  worthy.    Aisceada  ding- 

bala  3375  ;  uair  is  dingbala  lim  665 ; 

as  rit-su  as  dingmala  Hum  4260. 
dingna     height,     fastness.      Dochum 

dingna  3844;  a.p.  dingnada  25,  n.p. 

1266;    do   dingnaib   4485,   2018;    i 

ndingnaib  (sic  corr.)  4167.    The. 
direch  straight.    Co  d.  966. 
dirigim,  dirgim  I  straighten,  direct. 

V.n.  ac  dirgud  a  urcbur  2901.    C. 
dirim  f.   band,   host.    An  dirim   croda 

sin  955;  doronsad  na  T.  dirim  dluith 

972 ;   cona  dirim  ndegsluaig  3996 ; 

n.p.  7  dirmata  diairmigtbi  4161;  na 

dirmada  doilgi  1443, 3133 ;  cia  na  dir- 

manda  3385  ;  secbt  ndirmanda  2251 ; 

dirmanda  2121,  2229,  2337,  3501; 

acht  a  ndirmanda  diana  2801.    C. 


dí-rím  without  number,  uncounted, 
countless  820.  Ua  dirim  1799;  n.p. 
dirimi  1610.    C. 

dirma  troop  1556.  Dirma  diairmidi 
1704 ;  cona  dirmaib  deagsluaig  3032  ; 
dona  dirmaib  sin  1563;  risna  dir- 
maib 1229. 

disci  g.s.  of  discus.  Cluichi  disci  2468, 
disca  Eg. 

discir  fierce,  nimble,  fleet  190,  1083, 
4921' Eg.    C.C. 

discreit  distinction  of  rank,  decency, 
reserve.  Gan  discrit  1797;  discrir- 
tbecb  I.  discreitecb  discreet,  secret, 
decent  4921,  discire  Eg.    C. 

dith  f.  loss,  ruin.  Eoena  romadmand 
7  dith  3474 ;  robo  dith  3170. 

ditbaigim  lend,  kill,  destroy.  P.p.  3 p. 
rodithaigit  2825,  3665  ;  v.n.  ac  dithu- 
gud  3271 ;  7  rabai  'ca  dithubad  3953. 
C.C. 

dithfine  loss  of  kin,  tribal  loss.  Coma 
d.  ar  saerclandaib  3221. 

di-thuaslaicthe  insoluble  156. 

ditiu  f.  protection,  shelter.  Ina  imde- 
gail  7  didin  a  taeib  bodeisin  4522; 
do  diden  1434;  ac  diten  1978;  ac 
ditin  3409  diten  Eg.,  4113;  do  ditin 
3454  diten  Eg.,  4108. 

diubraicim  7  cast,  fling,  shoot.  Ipf. 
3  s.  rodibriced  3140;  rodibraiced 
3274 ;  rodibraigead  4208 ;  3  p.  rodi- 
braicdis  2700 ;  pret.  3  s.  rodibraic 
944,  2088,  2582,  3428;  rodibraig 
2483;  dodibraig  1015;  dodiubraic 
882,  966  Eg.;  dibraigis  4872 ;  diubra- 
igis  4875 ;  3  p.  rodibraigsed  4234 ; 
v.n.  re  dibrucud  1473, 1973, 2471 ;  ag 
dibragad  4104,  4110;  do  dhiubrucud 
3809;  da  ndibragad  doib  4274;  aca 
ndibrugun  3084;  ac  dibrucun  in 
muir  2003.   Di-ud-bidc. 

diumsacn  proud  144,  471,  891,  1238, 
1843,  2021,  2873;  g.s.  ag  urnaidi  T. 
diumsaig  912;  rogres  a  ech  dian 
diumsacb  (sic  corr.)  3732. 

díumus,  diummus  m.  pride,  haughti- 
ness 178,  629;  is  mór  in  diumus 
3778.   Di-od-mess-. 

diuscbim  (di-od-sech)  I  arouse,  awake. 
Pf.  2  s.  diusigsiu  174,  I.  diusighsi 
Eg.;  v.n.  ba  he  duscad  3961;  arna 
duscad  642. 

dligim  I  claim,  have  a  right  to.  Is  ed 
dligim  1134;  ipf.  subj.  3  p.  dlestis 
2628 ;  pret.  1  s.  rodligius  3847 ;  2  s. 
rodligis  3375;  p.  pres.  3  s.  uair  ni 
dlegar  2928 ;  pres.  subj .  3  s.  cen  cur- 
dligar  4898. 

dluigim  I  cleave,  split,  tear.  Pres.  pf. 
subj.  3  p.  eo  radluiget  176;  arbithin 


362 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


na  dianscailed  7  na  dluiged  3014; 
pret.  3  s.  co  rodluig  3161 ;  v.n.  isi 
ac  dluigi  3587. 

dlúim  f.  mass,  denseness.  I  fail  i  faichi 
in  ndluirn  lanmoir  3458.    Wi. 

dlúith  close,  thick,  dense.  Dirim  dluith 
972;  buidne  dluithi  1446;  fedadluithi 
2222  ;  tresna  cailltib  dluithi  4673  ; 
cor-u  dorchatu  dluith  1964 ;  ua dluith 
2334;  co  dluith  1150,  3084,  4117; 
equative  :  cor-badluithither  re  cleith 
2822. 

dlúmaim  I  mass.  P.p.  3  p.  rodlumait 
3501. 

dlús  m.  closeness,  density.  He  dlus  int 
sluaig  3296 ;  ba  he  an  dlus  na  fras  sin 
4112;  ba  he  dlus  rohimnaiscid  3068, 
4511. 

dluthaigim  I  pack,  press  close,  close, 
weld.  Pret.  3  s.  co  radluthaig  (sic 
corr.)  279;  p.p.  3  s.  rodluthaiged 
2822;  v.n.  ag  dluthubadh  4102.    C. 

do  (1)  to.  Do  gach  am  1332 ;  fomamu- 
gud  do choraid 840;  do  thabairt dosum 
844;  da  haltrom  1724;  da  rad  2594. 
With  pronouns:  1  s.  dam-sa  557,  8, 
1050,  2234 ;  fá  tren  damsa  ag  I  was 
strong  in  4705 ;  2  s.  dit  625, 1505, 2758, 
9;  dait  627;  duid  1890;  duit  4591; 
deit  4603,  4607;  3  s.  dó  4779,  634, 
988,  1010,  3372;  dó  1204;  ua  sacart 
uasal  idbarta  do  A.  2320;  do-sum 
4841;  ni  ar  teithed  dochuaid  do 
thither,  to  him  4427;  do  telcdis  T. 
do  thir  dó  3634 ;  3  s.  f .  di  869,  902, 
1934,  3693,  4328,  4722;  dissi2239; 
1  p.  duindi  864  duinne  Eg.,  1006; 
duind  1213,  1306,  4676;  2  p.  daib 
1310,  1313,  3224;  daibsi  1358;  3  p. 
doib  903  dibh  Eg.;  daib  1186,  1865, 
3944. 

With  poss.  pronoun:  1  s.  do  mmo 
mac  so  3605;  dam  fein  3233;  dum 
deoin  550 :  dam  brath  2953 ;  2  s.  dod 
t'  idbairt  4166;  dot  ua  3604;  dat 
thachur  7  dat  632 ;  3  s.  m.  da  leith 
chli  926  ;  f .  da  hathair  1902.    V.  dia. 

(2)  by.  Arnamarbaddamnaibfen 
1907 ;  can  idbairt  do  denam  di  do 
lucht  na  c.  869;  adclos  daibsium 
1613;  7  a  marbad  doib  893,  3612; 
do  gobail  dat  brathair  1709 ;  a  llo  no 
a  n-aidchi  4813. 

(3)  from.  Dod  lo  3377;  gantoirlem 
da  eoch  3511 ;  do  telcdis  T.do  thir  dó 
3634;  da  chend  4276;  do  thaib  di... 
don  taib  aili  di  1835;  dochuaid  sin 
urchur  saigti  sithguirmi  do  gregaib 
2348. 

(4)  of,  such.  I  dorus  do  doirsib 
4160 ;  7  robui  da  deni  roergedar  2799 ; 


7  do  na  tainic  d'  ses  a  denam  he  was 
not  old  enough  2686;  rabui  d'  aichni 
there  was  such  knowledge  3361. 

(5)  Withnoun,  or  as  a  prepositional 
cpd.,  the  do-phrase  is  used  as  nom. 
or  ace:  ba  do  shil  eich  C.  dona 
heachaib  sin  2292;  ba  do  shil  hE. 
do  2298,  9,  2557;  ba  do  luth  and 
fhir  sin  2433;  robui  do  met  a  n-ecla 
2740;  ace.  adcondairc  A.  andsin  do 
Grecaib  A.  saw  some  Greeks  3999; 
ba  do  Grecaib  bunadhcinel  T.  T. 
was  a  Greek  4805;  ua  hesti  sin  do 
N.  N.  was  sprung  from  it  1447. 

do-,  as  rel.  preverb,  for  obsolete  no-, 
0.  ro- :  0  doconncatar  3657 ;  o  dofuair 
3594;  o  dochonnairc-sium  sin  3552; 
cia  tra  doehuimnighfed  3568 ;  do 
chruaidarmaibh  dotelcdis  T.  3633; 
dair  dosach  dighuinn  docoisercadh 
do  D.  3696 ;  na  saitheda  soighed  do- 
theilcedh  an  trenfer  sin  3771 ;  misi 
dochomor  na  catha  4320;  mar  do- 
digail  misi  3558. 

do-  after  relative  conjunction  often  be- 
comes da- :  o  daraid-sium  sin  4189 ; 

0  dariachtadar  4811 ;  o  darochair 
4288;  v.  ro-,  ra-.  Also  when  the 
verb  is  relative  with  no  conjunctive 
particle  :  an  gresacht  daberi  foraind 
4263;  and  with  infixed  pronoun 
used  proleptically :  datharlaic  urchur 
3101. 

do  thy,  under  the  accent  t',  th'.  Ni 
lemdais  do  ledrad  3385 ;  do  thoitim 
3375 ;  doden-sa  do  comairli-si  1081 ; 
dena  do  cheli  1360;  ni  fhuil  do  shuil 
3495 ;  ar  do  mac  fein  1020 ;  gan  du 
marbad  2088 ;  dod  tinnlacadh  1042 ; 
dod  bunadchinel  fein  4408 ;  dod 
marbad  3212,  4532 ;  dot  brathair 
1620;  dat  brathair  1709;  dot  eis 
3378;  dod  t'  indsaigi  4362,  4542; 
'cod  gairm  7  'cod  grennachad  4363 ; 
na  buail  t'  ech  2285;  na  tabair  dod 
t'  airi  4601;  dod  bas  ar  t'  eis  4711; 
areen  re  d'  chend  855 ;  t'  aithni  2234 ; 
is  coir  t'  ole  do  denam  4236;  cuir 
uait  t'  arm  1029 ;  cuir  dit  t'  ecla  1360; 
dar  th'  eis  3376;  th'  athair-siu  130; 
cia  th'  athair  1820. 

do-berim  I  bring,  give.  Pres.  1  s.  do- 
berim  mo  breith'ir  1027,  1251;  da 
tabraim  4186 ;  2  s.  doberi-siu  2619, 
4409;  daberi  4263;  3  s.  dobeir  ortsu 
forces  thee  2622,  2625,  4379,  4885, 
372;  ni  thobair  1769;  2  p.  ni  thabraid 
2620;  3  p.  ni  tabraid  3352;  ipv.  2  s. 
tabair  1353.  2546;  tobair  1768;  2  p. 
tabraid  2125,  3314,  4026,  4542;  fut. 

1  s.  dober-sa  air  4602,  3799,  3754, 


363 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


1079,  1459,  1739,  1918,  2111 ;  2  s. 
dobera  551,  856;  an  tibri  4895;  3  s. 
dobera-si  847,  1868  ;  2  p.  doberthai 
1315;  2  fut.  2  s.  dobertha-sa  1056; 
3  s.  doberad  668,  734,  1057;  nach 
tabradh  904;  ara  tabrad  1192;  ipf. 
3s.  doberead  2301;  ipf.  subj.  Is. 
doberoind  824 ;  3  s.  intan  doberead 
1418;  cona  tabrad  2901;  pf.  1  s. 
thucus  di  359;  don  urchur  tucus 
do  3313;  ni  tucus  823;  2  s.  cid  ma 
tucais  357;  in  tucais  let  822;  in- 
tan  tucais  1049,  1352  ;  3  s.  tuc  leis 
he  carried  off  2463;  tuc  624,  924, 
1064;  tug  4888;  ni  thuc  2058;  ni 
tbug4477 ;  dep.  tucastar-si  509, 1579, 
3488;  tucastair  he  married  109;  543; 
tucasdáir  793 ;  2  p.  tucsabair  1317 ; 
3  p.  tucsat  825,  4478;  tucsad-sam 
4585,  1859;  dep.  tucsadar  1829;  p. 
pres.  doberar  1714;  ipv.  tabar  2542; 
fut.  3  s.  doberthar  855 ;  3  p.  dobertar 
1773;  pret.  3  s.  dobret  urcbar  4878; 
subj.  3  s.  inn  uair  dobertbea  492; 
dobertha  880 ;  do  na  tabartba  urchur 
3760;  p.p.  tucaid  2568;  tugad  807, 
4044;  tucad  1934,  2055,  2271,  3323; 
ant  inad  a  tugadh  1159;  tucad  leo 
1275;  nach  tucad  di  3328;  tucad  rne 
2055  ;  perfective  subj .  3  s.  na  tuca 
2460;  p.  3  s.  co  tucthar  1019;  v.n.  f. 
da  thabairt  511,  1060;  do  tobairt 
2994;  do  thobairt  1690,  2954,  3312. 

do-brón  m.  sorroiv.  Comartha  dobroin 
740.    TSh. 

do-bronach  sorrowful.  Go  dubach  do- 
bronach  4329. 

dobruchtaim  /  belch  forth.  P.p.  3  p. 
co  ntobruchtad  1427.    C. 

docha  preferable.  Is  tu  duine  as  docha 
lium  1070.    Ped.  n.  666. 

dochor,  dochur  m.  disadvantage,  dis- 
tress. Eofitir  fein  gach  ni  asfas  do- 
chair  ind  2325 ;  i  ndochur  2154 ;  mor 
do  dbuad  7  do  dochar  27.   TSh.,  Wi. 

dochraide  f.  distress.  I  ndochraidi  2154 
Eg.   P.H. 

dochuni  to,  unto:  prep,  with  gen.  Do- 
chum  an  gilla  sin  4777 ;  dochum  in 
rig  750;  d.  in  chatha  1451;  d.  na 
Gorgaine  1203;  dul  chom  Apaill  122 

do-chumal  m.  distress,  discomfort.  I 
ndochumal  4765.    Docamhal  TSh. 

do-dhelb  f.  uncomeliness.  Tainic  duibhi 
7  dodhealbh  3840. 

do-folachta,  dofulachta  insupportable 
537,  941,  1775;  intolerable,  irre- 
sistible 150,  748.    Lism.  3566. 

do-gabaim  (1)  I  get,  v.  fogabaim.  Pres. 
1  p.  dogabmaid  679;  fut.  1  s.  dogebsa 
4272.  (2)Ibegin.  Pret.3s.dogabl068. 


do-gniu  I  do.  Pres.  1  s.  nocha  denaini- 
si  834 ;  2  s.  is  dimain  a  ndénai  3453, 
1619 ;  3  s.  doni  1338 ;  1  p.  donimit 
553;  subj.  ma  ndenmait-ni  490;  3  p. 
doniat  3853 ;  ipf.  3  s.  donid  257, 1634, 
2999,  3273 ;  danid  782  ;  donith  1201 ; 
asa  ndenad  2842 ;  ni  denad  850 ;  3  p. 
donidis  538,  4135;  subj.  resiu  donetis 
2442;  ipv.  2  s.  dena-su  570;  dena 
551,  1360,  3781,  4140;  3  s.  denad 
548;  2  p.  denaid  1142,  2792,  4729; 
na  denaid  2576,  3849;  fut.  1  s. 
dogen-sa  4343 ;  dogein-sa  1332 ;  do- 
densa  550,  1080,  1310;  2  s.  dena-sa 
4413 ;  2  p.  dodentái  860 ;  2  fut.  1  s. 
dodenaind-si  1313;  3  s.  dogenad.3007, 
3460;  dodenad  1344;  ní  dhénadh  832; 
ipf.  subj.  1  s.  ni  dingnind-si  4030;  per- 
fective subj .  3  s.  munaderna  1310;  1  p. 
co  ndernam  3604;  2  p.  da  nderntai 
4145 ;  ipf.  3  p.  da  ndernatis  1064 ;  pf . 

1  s.  dorignius  172 ;  darignius-sa  1223 ; 
co  ndernes  153;   da  ndernus  1228; 

2  s.  dorignis  3653;  3  s.  dorigni-sium 
1135;  darigne  1737;  dorindi  3010; 
dorinni-sium  3857 ;  dorigne  3015, 
4014 ;  darigni  3324 ;  ni  derna  2084 ; 
co  nderna  2909;  pf .  1  s.  doronus  4341; 
doronas  1058;  ni  doronnus  122;  2  s. 
doronais  1043;  3  s.  dorone  2356; 
doroni  3467;  doronni  1931,  2452, 
2581;  doroine  3736,  4044;  doroindi- 
sium  339;  daroindi  1642;  doroigne 
762,  3207;  1  p.  ni  dernsamar  1839; 

3  p.  dorindsed  2985,  3893,  1337 ;  dar- 
indset  3476;  dorindseadar  1879;  co 
ndernsad2368;  doronsad  971,  1193, 
1701 ;  daronsad  1811,  1884  ;  dorin- 
nedar  p.  xvii.;  p.  ipv.  3  p.  dentar 
574,  1145,  2460,  4591,  4608;  na 
dentar  2158,  2764 ;  fut.  3  s.  intan 
dogentar  1144,  2581,  2591,  2957; 
2  fut.  3  s.  mar  dodhenta  3643 ;  p.p. 
pres.  3  p.  dorindit  1814 ;  3  s.  dorig- 
nead  2258,  3005;  dorindead  2797, 
4628;  dorondad  457,  2192,  2462; 
darondad  3015  ;  doronad  1132,  1460, 
2685,  4580;  doronaid  1370;  da  nder- 
nad  543,  1581 ;  ni  dernaid  idbarta 
2028;  v.n.  do  denam  1061,  4263. 

doibli  hard-mouthedness,  restiveness. 
Ac  d.  1384,  3493.  Duibell  .i.  utmall 
O'Dav.  No.  595. 

dóig,  likely.  Is  doig  439 ;  is  doig  leam 
1357 ;  roba  doigh  lé  806 ;  nar-ba  doig 
les  3361. 

doilig  difficult,  trying,  hard-to-please. 
Is  d.  lium  3753 ;  ua  doilig  2544,  2736, 
3992,  4109;  briathra  an  duine  doilig 
4602;  n.p.  na  dirmada  doilgi  1443, 
156 ;  compar.  ba  doilgi  dit  3454.  Tbc. 


364 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


do-imtheachta  impassable,  inaccessible 

897,  1169,  1832,  2223,  3367,  3836, 
4674.   Mn. 

doinend  f.  storm,  foul  weather.  Ar 
teichead  na  doinindi  426.    TSIi.,  C. 

doininde  stormy.  Tresin  fuasnad 
ndoninde  sin  296. 

do-inmed  wretchedness,  adversity,  ill- 
luck  78.   Cf.  P.H.,  C.C. 

dóire  f.  captivity,  slavery.  A  ndoiri 
atul827;  i  ndairi  2154.    P.H. 

doirrseóir  m.  door-keeper  604,  2927. 
Aisl. 

doirrtM  sinister,  grim.  Derbairdeda 
doirrthi  2720,  doirchi  Eg.  Cf.  dor- 
rach;  dorruighthe  surly,  grim  O'll., 
nis-dorrtlioiget  ar  rnigrfrnrada,  Alex. 
940. 

doirtim  I  spill,  pour  out.  Pret.  3  s. 
rodoirt  2589 ;  rodoirtestar  1645. 

dóit,  dóid  f.  hand,  fist,  wrist.  A.p. 
rosinead-si  a  dóidi  904.    Wi. ,  Laws. 

domain  deep.    Co  domuin  inti  2490. 

doman  in.  world.  Co  dered  in  domuin 
2185 ;  mairb  in  domain  591,  2 ;  archu 
eangnuma  in  domuin  1994  ;  'sin  do- 
man 1308. 

do-menma  f.  dejection,  depression.  Ba 
badbal  toirrsi  7  domenma  3339 ;  acbt 
mad  domenma  1351 ;  ac  domenmain 
moir  3307,  4131;  gairi  duba  7  do- 
menman  4536;  mar  chomarthai 
mbroin  7  domenman  2242. 

domenmnach  dispirited,  dejected  147, 
1256,  2983;  cod.  1763,  2096. 

dometa  double-sized,  exaggerated,  enor- 
mous. Tresin  ndilind  n-ometa  282. 
Is  dometu  for  cette  .i.  deurc  for  uan 
.i.  debec  for  bic  It  is  double  quantity 
for  a  fair,  i.e.  two  pigs  for  a  lamb, 
i.e.  tico  littles  foralittle,  O'MuIc.751. 

domnach  Sunday  p.  xvi. 

donas  m.  bad  luck,  misery.  Dom  thonas 
p.  xv. 

dono  further,  besides  843,  962,  1180. 

dorala  came,  chanced.  Is  and  dorala  a 
mathair  2120,  3546,  4328;  darala 
4275,  365,  2688,  3094;  tarla  3141, 
4309;  no  co  tarla  111,  1010,  1626, 
3415,  3715,  3954 ;  3  p.  doruladar  do 
munter  T.  3371,  dorala  Eg. 

darat  gave.  Pf.  3  s.  dorad  1328,  3785, 
4854;  o  darat  1678;  darad  1688; 
co  tard  2303,  3298;  co  na  tard  3058; 
pf.  dep.  3  s.  doratastar  485 ;  p.p.dara- 
dad  1508. 

dorcha,  dorche  dark.  Agaid  dorcha 
1169;  a  nglind  dorcha  897;  coma 
dorcha  doimtheachta  do  gach  conair 
3367;  re  hirgail  neoil  dorcha  3083. 

dorchachad  m.  darkening  4540. 

dorchacht  f.  darkness  299. 


dorchaide  black,  dark  597. 

dorchatu  m.  darkness  279;  cor-ua  d. 
dluith  1964;  rochuirloifdorcata  4288; 
a ndorchadaid  na  haidchi  4695.  P.H. 

doridisi  again  1126;  dorisi  1669,  1814. 
V.  arisi. 

dorn  m.  fist,  hand.  A  cuil  a  casm- 
duirnd  976. 

dorus  m.  door,  gate.  Acht  aendorus 
nama  4078;  cor-iadsad  ar  eigin  an 
dorus  4088;  dochum  dorais  4203; 
ar  tain-seach  an  dorais  4082 ;  ré  dorus 
4090;  fon  dorus  1111;  dar  dorus  in 
baili  2232,  3029,  3030,  2;  i  dorus  do 
doirsib  in  one  of  the  doors  4160;  a 
ndorus  an  longphuirt  4329  ;  i  ndorus 
na  cathrach  1383,  4377;  fuaim  na 
ndorus  3941 ;  daingnigter  lib  doirrsi 
bar  cathrach  4075;  roiadsat  doirrs 
a  cathrach  4077;  im  doirrsib  4206 
'ma  doirrsib  4304;  re  doirrsib  2739 
4103 ;  dar  doirrsib  4055 ;  ider  doirr 
sib  4125 ;  im  doirrsib  4206 ;  f  hoslai- 
gid  doirrsi  4891,  2027. 

dosbush,clump.  Uadosaibdiarnraib512. 

dosach  bushy,  spreading.  Dair  d.  3696 ; 
bile  dossach  3636;  dairgi  dossacha 
4273. 

do-tiagaim  I  come.  Pret.  1  s.  antan 
dochuadus  1224;  3  s.  conar  ar  fen 
docuaid  1206 ;  ni  deachaid  1258 ; 
v.n.  ac  tuidecht  656.    V.  toideacht. 

draic  dragon.  G.p.  delba  dregon  3030, 
dracan  Eg. ;  co  mongaib  dracon  766, 
draccain  Eg.    C.C. 

drech  t.face.  Ic  faicsin  a  dreichi  193 ; 
do  dreich  an  talman  4289 ;  dar  dreich 
196 ;  tar  dreith  914 ;  ar  dreich  thai- 
man  4265,  4270. 

drem  f.  crowd,  band,  some.  Desid  each 
drern  2640 ;  rofagbaid  drem  re  dorus 
4090;  rabadar  drem  4091,  4104,  6, 
4132 ;  delba  na  dremi  sin  1461 ;  acin 
dreirn  sin  1473;  drem  dib...drem  eili 
some... others  461,  1401,  1565,  1978, 
4132,  4665. 

dremne  f.  impetuosity,  violence  2345. 
Tbc. 

dringim  I  climb.  Ipf.  3  s.  rodringed 
257;  pret.  3  s.  rodring  4229;  v.n. 
can  dreim  riu  so  4226.    W.  dringo. 

driseach  briery  896. 

áxiXLCh  corrosive  action,  energy,  activity, 
O  dhriuch  nemi  na  nathrach  2098. 
Driuch energy, activity McA.  Driuch- 
aim  I  chafe,  fret,  C.C. 

droch-aicentacii  having  ill-nature,  evil- 
hearted  144,  1238. 

droch-ciall  f.  folly,  ill-will  178,  416, 
1314,  4885. 

drochet,  drochad  bridge.  On  ba  droch- 
ad  comnart  3533. 


365 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


droch-láech  m.  inferior  hero.  Ni  benad 
re  drochlsechaib  3221. 

drolmanach  hooked  1273,  1488.  Drol 
lúirige  hook  of  corslet,  C.C. 

drong  multitude,  crowd.  Eodithaigit 
dronga  de  sin  2825 ;  coma  dronga 
dianmarba  2857;  dronga  degsluaig 
1496;  ni  beanad  ri  drongaib  ndses- 
scursluaig  3220. 

dnii  m.  wizard,  druid.  In  drui  sin 
1624 ;  n.p.  ni  rochuindig  druidi 
1782. 

drúidecht  f.  wizardry,  magic.  Roben 
a  deilb  druidechta  de  2916.    P.H. 

druim  back.  7  a  druim  risin  colamain 
1151;  a  leith  da  druim  940,  3099; 
do  druim  a  eich  2357;  co  robris  a 
druim  2854,  4010;  tuc  a  druimm  riu 
3630. 

druimnech  ridged  1004.   Wi. 

druitim  I  press,  close.  Pret.  3  s.  ro- 
druit  279;  3  p.  rodruidsed  4097; 
v.n.  ag  drud  4102.    Cf.  drut  P.H. 

duad  m.  toil,  trouble,  hardship  26,626. 
TSh. 

duaibsech  gloomy,  darksome  1610, 193, 
523,  766,' 904,  1221.    C.C. 

dua.ibsech.-demna,chgloomy  and  devilish. 
Roeirgedar  amaidi  duaibsechdem- 
nacha  4444. 

Dual:  an  dá  la  conici  sin  3890;  ro- 
comraicsedar  da  trenfer  2831 ;  in  da 
curaid  2894;  in  da  brathar  4315  Eg.; 
tucsat  dias  aili  da  urchar  3416;  co 
rue  da  mac  do  788;  rossaidsed  da 
sciath  3304;  amal  norethidis  da 
buindi  diana  3315;  ua  cheacbtar  in 
da  sluag  2742 ,  4089 ,  530 ;  iter  da  sliab 
arda  aimreidi  898  ;  amar  da  leoman 
loindmera  4515 ;  mar  da  thiger  trena 
4515;  da  mac  tenda  1999,  1617; 
mar  da  natbraig  niata  nemnecha 
4516 ;  7  a  da  hingin  marsen  ria  2748, 
3227 ;  rodibraic  da  saigid  2781 ;  ad- 
cbondairc  da  ralaig  4224 ;  o  rocom- 
raicedar  in  da  curaid  2894;  but  pi. 
is  also  used:  rachasustair  na  da 
fbaga  fhirgera  965 ;  do  tbinninus  na 
da  derbrathar  sin  4315. 

Dá  fern.:  iteradalaiml017;  rotho- 
gaib  a  dá  laim  1023;  ba  hiad  da 
cbatbraig  cudruma  1588. 

Di  fern. :  o  dib  gaetbaib  228. 
Without  dá:  do  rose  ruibnech 
roglas  ag  dorchachad  4540 ;  ceo 
cumad  dara  rose  4702;  co  n-erboll 
com troma  2280  (?) ;  conberad  a  ormna 
1483;  robeanus  mo  rose  174. 

dual  natural,  hereditary.  Ca  crich  is 
dual  dit  1821 ;  is  dual  dó  2620 ;  ua 
dual  deigrith  2432. 

dualach plaited  1488,  2450.   C.C. 


dub  black.  Tresna  nellaib  duba  597, 
1221,  1643;  lecana  duba  1664. 

duba  f .  gloom,  melancholy  1351 ;  ar  met 
na  duba  2997 ;  ag  duba  4131 ;  gairi 
duba  7  domenman  4535;  comartha 
duba  740,  1222;  na  denaid  duba  na 
domenmha  3849.    P.H. 

dubach  gloomy,  melancholy  147,  2983, 
4454;  co  d.  1763,  2096,  4328. 

dub-glas  dark  green,  dark  blue,  grey 
524,  766,  905,  913, 1274,  2064.    C.C. 

duibe  f.  blackness.  Tainic  duibhi  3840; 
duibi  299. 

dull  f.  element.  Amal  comcumaisctis 
na  gffltha  in  cethar  duil  3080. 

duilech  desirous,  eager.  Brecdhuileach 
2812.    Sirduilech  C.C.  6027. 

duiligthe  creature.  Agduiligthi4597,do 
d.  Eg.  Dúilech,  dúlech  elemental  Fel.2 

duilleog  f.  leaf  p.  xv. 

duine  m.  man,  person.  Rodallad  in 
duini  sin  1625;  duni  d'  ithi  3344, 
3413 ;  is  tu  duine  as  docha  lium  dona 
dainib  1070 ;  ni  fhitir  duni  1503 ;  re 
gach  nduni  1518,  1544,  4216;  ac 
duni  1596;  can  fis  do  duine  1260; 
a  duni  dasachtaich  2129;  a  duine 
4719;  daine  mera  1289;  na  tuictis 
dasini  aili  2106;  nidad  daini  3350; 
ac  ithi  daine  3351 ;  risna  dainib  1116  ; 
do  dainib  1837 ;  a  n-anmanna  daine 
dibh  the  names  of  some  of  them  3766. 

dul  going  909,  1038,  1048,  2378,  4055, 
4307,  4667;  ac  dul  3866;  ar  mo  dul- 
sa  dib  843  ;  gan  dul  daib  2246,  2723 ; 
um  dul  4059. 

dulad  occasion,  expedition  1220  Eg. 
Acall.  758.    TSh. 

dul-fáebrach,  v.  tul-fhaebrach. 

dumacairii, mound.  A.p.dumacha2643; 
a  nduama  1260,  i  n-uamaigh  Eg.  P.H. . 

dún  Jort,  castle.  Co  faichthi  fondglais 
a  duin  2638;  n.p.  duine  1266. 

dunad  m.  fortification,  castle.  Isin 
dunad  2150. 

diinaim/  shut,  fasten,  barricade.  Pret. 
3  s.  dodun  1021;  pass.  ipv.  3  p.  dun- 
tar  4074 ;  v.n.  'ca  dunaclh  4080. 

dúr  hard.  Dur  son  dam  133,  I.  phps. 
durson;  co  dur  dasachtach  3562, 3747. 

dúraigiur  I  harden.  Pret.  3  p.  rodur- 
aigestar  4489,  roduraighsit  Eg. 

dursan,  dirsan  sad.  Durson  damsa 
geneamain  133,  2234,  2851,  4341, 
4706,  4709.    The. 

dúscad  m.  awakening.  Ba  he  duscad 
tug  air  3961.    V.  dluschim. 

dúthaig  hereditary.  Ar  grad  na  hath- 
arrda  dilisi  duthaig  2860;  compar. 
duthchu  1620.   Aur.,  P.H.,  Wi. 

dúthchus  m.  heredity,  birthright.  Uar 
nduchus  665 ;  fearanda  duchusa  685. 


366 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


duthracht  m.  wish,  earnest  desire.  Ba 
he  a  nduthracht  3924. 

duthrachtach  willing,  earnest,  well- 
disposed.    Co  d.  4219. 

é,  he  he,  him;  f.  hi,  1;  neut.  ed.  Gid  ed 
1702  ;  ge  ead  1599,  v.  ed  ;  da  mad  hé 
an  lá  1055  ;  is  é  sin  1238, 1241, 1304 ; 
loisclid  saignen  hé  1239 ;  ni  hé  1350, 
1259;  eisium  3404,  4410;  co  raloit- 
teadh  hi  1237  ;  co  rucsad  amach  he 
3270;  no  cha  n-i  1341 ;  uair  rop  i  S. 
1719;  gid  hi  donidis  4135,  4543;  is 
i  tra  aimser  2313 ;  7  sisi  gan  scailiud 
3406 ;  ar  si  4704 ;  hi  4702 ;  í  4801 ; 
3  p.  iad,  e :  dodibraig  iad  966,  1052 ; 
nach  e  in  dei  2851 ;  da  mad  he 
2852. 
é  sin  that  365.  E-sen  The. 
éc  m.  death.   I  nn-airdeanaib  eca  3322 ; 

airrdena  ega  4541. 
-écairthe    overlaid,    ornamented.      II- 

ecairthi  3205.    -écraim  C.G. 
ecal  fear  299;  uair  ba  hecail  le  510, 
2485 ;  ni  daib  fein  dob  eagail  leo  ni 
4004. 
é-calma  distrustful,  mistrustful,  full  of 
misgivings.   Ba  hecalma  re  Grecaib 
2519,  ua  hecail  la  G.  Eg. 
écen  f.  (1)  necessity,  violence,  distress. 
Ger-b  adbul  in  ecen  3438;  eiccen  do 
thobairt  fuirri  1690;  eigen  4558  ;  g.s. 
arbithin  eiccni  1862,  Eg.  in  hecin; 
isin  n-eigin  2007;    isin   n-eigin  ir- 
gaili  4483 ;  i  n-eigin  3097 ;  ar  eigin 
795,    4081,  4088;    tre  aslach   eicni 
1501;  ri  heicin  1776;  a.s.  cia  dobeir 
in  n-eicin  372 ;  rotriall  eiccin  1670 ; 
aran  ecein  sin  2972;  adchondcadar  in 
n-eicin  sin  3422;  n.p.  na  heicne-sea 
1616 ;  eiccen  do  thobairt  fuirri  1690. 
(2)  some.  Dobersa  indnell  fuirig  ecin 
1739. 
écen-dál,    écen-dáil   f.    necessity,    dis- 
tress.   Ca    hecendal   3174;    isin   n- 
eceandail  97;  robid  i  n-egindail  4765. 
TSh.,  The. 
é-cennais  ungentle,  fierce  1304 ;  egendais 
1117, 1304, 1688 ;  co  hegandais  1089 ; 
mucc  eccendais  342.    P.H. 
é-cert  unjust.  A. p.  breitheamain  ecerta 

1661,  Eg.  egaracha  (  =  e-coracha). 
ech  m.  horse.  As  i  tra  cetna  ech  2277 ; 
int  ech  2358,  3493,  3497 ;  a  ech  1383 ; 
o  ragonad  int  each  4503;  do  shil  S. 
eich  G.  1513 ;  do  druim  a  eich  2357 ; 
docuired  ar  in  n-eoch  1693;  7  se  bar 
eoch  3116;  da  eoch  1695;  iter  ech  7 
duni  1757;  v.s.  a  eich  3494;  ac  na 
hechaib  2330;  fora  n-echaib  4445; 
ar  echaib  csema  1512,  1526;  da  n- 
eachaib  1811,  4509;   n.p.   a  n-eich 


1756;  eich  greini  2287;  na  heich 
2947;  a.p.  a  n-eocha  4472,  4476, 
4480;  a  eocha  1083;  a  eocho  1382, 
2079,  2300,  2609;  adchondairc  a  n- 
eocho  tenda  4472. 
echda   equine.    Bofocrad   coimrith   n- 

echda  2305. 
echrad  f.  coll.  horses.  Aradna  na  hech- 
raidi  4417,  3066;  re  hoilib  na  heach- 
raidi  2341 ;  srein  na  heachraidi  4507 ; 
echrada  3250;  ni  roichdis  a  n-echrada 
4099;    tindenas  na  n-echrad  n-all- 
marda  3063. 
écht  m.  fell  deed.   Ni  ba  fhecht  3611 ; 
nir-bo  echt3523 ;  adchondairc  ri  sotal 
int  echt  sin  2890 ;    admolad  echta 
4218 ;  ili  a  n-echta  3252 ;  nir-ba  lugu 
a  echta  in  airseda  isin  3152 ;  a  haithli 
na  n-echt  sin  2780 ;  dorigne  P.  echta 
ar  na  T.  2835;  cia  tra  dochuimnigh- 
fed  eachta  I.  3568. 
échtach    doing    fell    deeds,    puissant. 
Ernon    echtach    2837,    3129,   4070, 
4162,  4877;  sluaig  echtacha  4849; 
airdechtach  3565 ;  daigechtach  3169 ; 
luathechtach     3556 ;      primechtach 
3150 ;  sarechtach  2890 ;  sleig  sarech- 
taich  3262. 
echtar  on  the  outside,  L.  exter-us.   A 
n-eachtair  2214 ;  amuigh  a  n-echtair 
3737. 
echtarda/orciV/ii,  strange  417. 
echtra  outing,  adventure.   Ar  e.  220, 

235. 
echtraim  I  go  out  into  the  world,  go 

into  exile.   P.p.  rohechtrad  365. 
echtrand  m.  stranger,  foreigner.  Dona 

sluagaib  echtrand  2415. 

ecla  f.  fear.   Comad  lugaiti  ecla  721, 

1591 ;  eagla  940, 4744, 5 ;  in  ecla  3451; 

rogab  ecla  me  1899,  4151;   ar  met 

na  heagla  4129;  gan  ecla  3466;  ar 

eagla  4293,  heclai  Eg. ;  re  heglal313, 

4003;    re  hecla    1357,  2931;    nach 

faiceann  tusa  ant  aduath  7  in  n-egla 

843. 

eclach  fearful,  afraid  618,  1121,  2965. 

ecmais  absence.    Only  in  d.s.  :  at  eg- 

mais  854. 
ecna  f.  wisdom.   Ar  leri  a  hecna  1590. 
é-cóir  (1)  f.    injustice.    Do  degail  ar 
n-uile    7  ar  n-ecorach   1960 ;   gach 
egoir  doronsad  ris  4136;  n.p.  is  ad- 
bul a  n-ecoiri  2629.    (2)  unjust.    A 
fhuigell  egoir  4384. 
é-comlann  an  unequal  contest,  unhappy 
conflict.    I  nn-ecomlaind  2542.    C.G. 
écomnart  weakness  230.    Wi. 
écor  overlaying,   ornamenting,  adorn- 
ing. G.s.asadj.il-eagair917;  ileccair 
1550;  cathbairr  coem  egair  1529. 
é-cosc  appearance,  face.   Egcosc  2278. 


367 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


écraim  I  arrange.  P.p.  rohecrad  2260 ; 
p. p. p.  d'or  aiaind  il-ecairthi  3205. 

é-csamail  diverse,  various  1662;  idbarta 
ecsamla  1885  ;  airm  e.  3281 ;  examla 
2702;  a  chumachta  hecsamla  1212 
Eg. ;  ba  becsainla  a  n-aideda  3546 ; 
co  n-armaibecsamlaib  1398, 3577;  for 
an  sciatb  n-ilbrec  n-examail  sin 
4829. 

écumsanad  restlessness,  impatiencel352. 

ed  (1)  neut.  of  é.  Is  ed  roraid  3557, 
3607,  4538;  is  ead  roraid  2143;  is 
ead  is  maitb  lim  2755 ;  mas  ead  as 
ail  lib  2144;  ni  head  3525,  2984;  co 
rob  ed  robean  3265.  (2)  yet,  never- 
theless. Gid  ead  2510,  3270,  4031, 
4233,  4336,  4847;  ged  ed  2092;  gid 
ed  2284,  2322,  2366,  2535,  2550, 3363, 
4839;  cidh  edh  3585. 

ed  space,  distance.  Ee  lied  246,  2871; 
ri  head  na  bliadna  sin  220,  4133;  re 
hed  na  haidchi  sin  2734,  4903;  7  ed 
cheithri  n-urchur  saigdi  2312;  co 
ndechaid  uad  re  hed  2583. 

ég,  v.  éc. 

égem  f.  shout,  cry.  D'  eigim  4073;  fon 
egiom  2079;  ua  cora  dait  snim  7 
siregim  627,  siregem  Eg. 

éigim  I  cry, shout.  Pret.  3  s.  roeig2077; 
roeigh  1047;  raéig  4195;  eigis  4407. 

éirg-im  /  arise.  Pres.  3  s.  ergid  1364; 
rel.  amal  eirges  1425 ;  ipv.  2  s.  na 
herig  4173 ;  eiridh  3558 ;  eirigh  3795 ; 
eirig  4785,  4792;  2  p.  eirgid  4060, 
4669;  ergid  1120;  ipf.  co  n-eirged 
869 ;  pret.  3  6.  roeirig  4852 ;  roehich 
3436;  doerich  2510;  roerich  2076; 
roerig  1136, 1424, 2195;  cor-erig  4306, 
3222;  doerig  4319;  roeiridh  3620, 
3582;  daerig  922;  3  p.  co  raergestair 
928 ;  roergestar  1950  ;  cor-eirgedar 
3987;  doeirgeadar  1127;  raergedar 
1281,  2455;  roeircetar  3887;  roeir- 
gedar  4847 ;  roerieheadar  3346 ;  o 
raerigedar  3333;  t-pret.  3  s.  adraig 
931 ;  adracht  1961,  2017;  v.n.f.  eirgi 
4291,  4678;  ac  erge  2021;  im  ergi 
2474;  ag  ergi  2535;  ag  eirghi  3619; 
ag  eri  2537. 

éis  track,  trace.  Tot  eis  3378;  dar  th' 
eis  3376;  ar  t'  eis  4711;  tar  th'  eis 
4709;  d'  eis  a  oiti  515;  dá  eis  1099, 
1415;  di  beis  2059;  da  n-eiss  behind 
them  4614,  1268,  1745,  2223;  dar  eis 
caich  2381 ;  dar  eis  Ip.  3468 ;  dar  eis 
a  fer  1938,  mo  mac  2104,  a  cetmuin- 
tire  4912;  tar  eis  mo  charad  after 
my  friends  are  gone  4340;  tar  m'  eis 
4345;  d'  ar  n-eis-ne  2141 ;  ése  f. :  da 
n-eisi  3870. 
eis-innill insecure,  hazardous  406.  TSh. 
Cf.  Laws. 


éistim  /  listen.  Ipv.  2  s.  na  heist-siu 
risna  stoccaib  1331 ;  2  p.  eistet  rim-sa 
2178  eistidh  Eg.;  pf.  3  s.  ge  raeist 
4400;  v.n.  f.  eistecht  846;  ag  eist- 
eacht  1163,  3002;  reheisteacht4127. 
éit  f.  herd.  Fo  ethib  3137.  The. 
eitech  winged   495.    Soigde   imluatha 

eitecha4111.    C.C. 
ela  swan.    D'  elaib  ailli  1230;  trésna 

helaib  1233.   Eala  f .  TSh. 
élaim  I  steal  aivay,  escape.    Pret.  1  s. 
roelus  mo  enur  2054 ;  3  s.  roela  3191; 
cein  no  cor-elath  3241;  ipf.  subj.  3  p. 
arbithin  nach  helodis  3874 ;  v.n.  a 
n-élod  4613.    D'  élodh  to  elope,  A.U. 
1487.    V.  étla. 
elaiscib  festive-fires,    longings,    enjoy- 
ments  2236;    falaisg   f'.  festive-fire, 
moor-burning  H.B.   Cf.  aelscud  long- 
ing Ml.  56b  26,  elscoth  WL,  ealscad 
cosiness  U'Br. 
ele  other,  another.    Robadar  drem  eili 
dib  4666;  don  leith  ele  2221 ;  d'  iar- 
raid  a  mic  eli  4182 ;  ni  ricfa  ceili  eili 
mo  chneas-sa  4708. 
elifaint  f.  elephant.    G.s.  eilfinti  472, 

elifinnti  Eg. 
émdim,   ess-midiur  I  decline,  refuse. 
Pret.  1  s.  ra-eimthius-sa  663 ;  3  s.  o 
roemid  1689.    Éimdhim  TSh. 
emeltus  m.  tedium,  weariness;  emiltus 
222;  uahemeltius726.  Emeltus  P.H. 
én  m.  bird  1219 ;  7  ant  en-sa  1242,  5,  6 ; 
n.p.  eoin  540,  909;  tre  gothaib  na 
n-én  1214;  tre  énaib  1634;  d'  enaib 
7  do  eathaidib  4026. 
én-chendach    f.    bird-gear.     Eogob    a 

oenchendaich  586.    Mn. 

enech  face,   honour.    Ar  ndigail  enig 

Baich2789 ;  da  eneoch2893 ;  d'  enech 

na  ndei  3796. 

enech-solus  bright-faced  3666. 

engna.m prowess  3817;  archueangnuma 

1994,  2905 ;  nir-ba  tualaing  ursclaid 

na   hengnoma   iad   1969;    rabui   d' 

aichni    a   eangnuma   3361;    athlom 

n-engnoma  2512,  3443;  ni  head  mol- 

ad   a   n-ech   na  a  n-engnuma   fein 

2985 ;  inecenengnoma3438;  athscith 

n-e.  3815;  int  airsid  engnama  4306; 

ua  haeiti  engnoma  2513;  an  gille  óg 

can  engnam  3884.    Tbc. 

engnumach  active,  doughty  3113,  3224, 

ehgnomach  3200 ;  engnamach  4085. 

é-nirt   strengthless,    feeble,   weak.    Co 

hanbandenirt 2398, 2951, 3394.   C.C. 

é-nirte    f.    strengthlessness,    weakness. 

Oenerti  1771. 
eochair-imbel  border,  edge  875.   Aisl. 
eochar-bordm.  key-border,  border,  edge. 
D.p.   dar  eochar-bordaib   1167;    co 
heo.  206.    Cf.  C.C. 


368 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


eólach  knowing,  learned.  Nachu  fhir 
eolaig  344 ;  ua  huathad  eolaig  1752. 

eólas  m.  knowledge,  skill,  learning, 
showing  the  way.  lie  heolus  na 
haidchi  4685 ;  tabair  eolas  4560 ;  ar 
athgairid  eolais  4617 ;  ar  leri  a  hecna 
7  a  heolais  1590;  tobair  foirithin 
eolais  usqui  1769. 

era  refusal  880,  1105. 

éraim  /  refuse.  P.p.  3  s.  nochar-herad 
p.  xvi.    Wi. 

er-ball  m.  tail.  D.  dual:  co  n-erboll 
comtrorua  2280,  but  cf.  com-tbroma. 

erchoideach  hurtful,  harmful  2775. 

er-ergna  wise.  Ard  erergna  3767,  689 ; 
a  occu  ailli  erergna  655 ;  compar.  na 
uad  erergnu  1543;  bad  aili  na  bad 
erergna  4163. 

er-galach  valorous  3565.    V.  irgal. 

érim  f.  course.  Snuadallus  na  berma 
2338;  ba  tairmesc  erma  2910.    Wi. 

err  end,  tail.    Bern  da  beirr  2074. 

err  m.  Itero.    D'  erraib  1927. 

errchaide  vernal  1338,  1363. 

erriud  m.  drapery,  weeds.  Erred  1563, 
2173,  2240,  2942;  errid  4439,  1548; 
errad  catha  1114;  ba  hé  eirred  in 
righ  sin  3734;  rochuir  a  eirrid 
suaithnidh  de  3934.    Tbc. 

es,  ess  waterfall.  D.s.  ri  heas  1795; 
g.p.  bandei  na  n-es  1743;  re  hesaib 
na  bobond  3584 ;  rotimsaigh  srotba 
7  esa  3615. 

e-sadail  uneasy,  restless  1424. 

es-áentugud  m.  disuniting,  disunion. 
A  comartha  easssentaga  4740. 

es-badach  forlorn.  Co  casinteach  eas- 
badaoh  4919. 

esbaid,  es-buid  f.  a  being  away  from, 
want,  privation,  loss  20,  4089,4644; 
g.s.  rehimutan-esfadha3868;  p.xv. 

esca  m.  moon.  G.s.  ré  soillsi  in  esca 
917;  imman  esca  267. 

es-cara  m.  enemy.  Cid  ad  eascara  4467; 
re  hoirlech  a  n-escarad  1272;  re 
srainiud  a  escarat  390;  n.s.  cid  ad 
eascara  4467,  escaru  Eg. ;  a  n-escar- 
aid4582.    C.C. 

eschradaim  I  fall  from  a  horse.  P.p. 
3  s.  raheaschrad  e  da  eoch  fen  1694. 
Cf.  escpr  .En. 

eserit  feeble,  weak.  Co  hanband  eserit 
2175,  eiseirt  Eg.  Seirt  .i.  neart  O'Cl. 

es-fhuilide  bloodless.  N.p.  airechta 
adbana  esfhuiligi  1656.  Fuiligud 
Tbc. 

esimel  example,  imitation,  favour,  de- 
pendence, reverence.  A  nirt  eisimail 
4178;  ag  eisimal  4871.  Alex.  265; 
exemplum  Tbc,  gaisgeadh  O'Cl. 

eslind  (1)  u-eak  spot,  dangerous  place. 


Co  roben  i  n-eslind  a  chuirp  3251;  a 
n-eslind  a  chuirp  4893;  roleic  eislind 
a  chuirp  4189.  (2)  weak,  insecure, 
dangerous,  fatal.  Gona  aigbeili  eis- 
lind'i  4520;' co  heslind  3391;  co  rug 
urraind  n-eslind  4526. 

esoenta  disunion  1842. 

esrédiud  m.  scattering.  Na  hesraidi 
858.  As-sreud,  oesreuth  Thur.  Gr. 
460;  Ériuu.  154. 

ét  m.  jealousy.    Tre  ét  1065. 

étach  garment,  clothing  2240;  edach 
1255,  2841,  3847,  4440;  co  nn-etach 
2290;  diarnraib  a  etaich  1488;  ac 
comdrud  a  edaig  3739,  4545 ;  ac 
dluighi  a  hetaig  3588;  ag  inred  a 
aichthi  7  a  édaig  930;  n.p.  etig  745; 
rochoraigid  etaigi  2213 ;  co  n-edaigib 
4437;  dar  etaigib  1375,  2249;  a.p.  a 
n-etaigi  381. 

etar-guide  interceding,  intercession.  Ag 
eadarguidi  na  ndei  1647;  ag  edar- 
guidhi  D.  3704;  ag  eadarguidi  cacha 
huile  885. 

etar-scarad  m.  separating.  Etarscarad 
na  desi  sin  2544;  da  n-edarscarad 
4465;  arna  n-etarscarad  444. 

ete-gal  f.  wing  power,  flying.  Eothuit 
ar  scis  eteagaili  1241 ;  re  hetegail 
587,  re  hetell-  Eg.   Cf.  Wi. 

eter,  iter  (1)  between,  among:  prep, 
with  ace. ,  but  dat.  pi.  Iter  da  sliab 
arda  897 ;  iter  in  sruth  7  in  sruth  n- 
adbul  1391 ;  iter  an  lucht  sin  4321 ; 
iter  na  curadaib  3182 ;  iter  na  hinat- 
aib  caerna  562,  1364;  iter  armaib  7 
echaib  7  etaigib  2296;  iter  armaib 
urnochta  982;  iter  a  da  láim  1017; 
iter  muir  7  tir  1964;  with  pronorn. 
elements:  2  s.  etorrud-su  2756;  1  p. 
adraind  4343,  4414 ;  3  p.  aterro  4465 ; 
eturu  141 ;  eturru  1457 ;  atorro  4567, 
4747. 

(2)  both  ...and.    Iter  arm  7  etach 
2680 ;  iter  mnaib  7  feraib  4772,  4214. 

eter-deligim  I  separate.  P.  ipv.  3  p. 
eterdelaigter  lib  na  milid  2541 ;  p.p. 
3  s.  roiterdeligther  3827 ;  v.n.  ac 
eterdeligud  2760.   C.C. 

étfhualang,  etualang  m.  great  suffer- 
ing, hardship,  injury.  Nir-ihulaing 
int  edualang  529 ;  etfualang  1352 ;  re 
hecla  ind  etualaing  2931 ;  roimir 
imned  7  edualand  2550.    P.H.,  C.C. 

étgud  m.  clothing  1766;  etgud  1412, 
1932,3217;  asa  edgud  369. 

ethaid  f.  a  bird,  flock.  Amal  bis  ethaid 
2199  ;  n.p.  én  na  eathaidi  1220  ;  eth- 
aide  268 ;  ethaidi  3411 ;  eathaidi  910 ; 
ethaiti  540 ;  do  eathaidib  4026,  4638 ; 
fá  eathaidib  áeoir  4588  ;  fa  conaib  7 


369 


24 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


ethaidib   3980;    fuaimneacb   ua   n- 

ethaidega  4678;  adchi-si  edaigi  1221. 
ethaim  /  go.  Cein  no  co  roithset  1831, 

roitbet  Eg.    Gaelic,  eitb  go.    as. 
étiud  clothing,  garment.    Racbritb  an 

bé  Neid  a  beiteda  4447.    Aur. 
etla  he  stole,  stole  away,  escaped.  Roedla 

uaid  na  harma  4570;  cein  co  roetla 

3336,  3191;  no  cor-elatb  3241.   S.G. 

euladb  creeping  away.   Ped.  n.  649. 
etlaidesi/rf  191.' C.C. 
é-trócar  merciless.  Co  batblam  ettrócar 

3888. 
etualang,  v.  étfbualang. 

fáball  fable.    N.p.  faibli  785.    L.  fá- 

bella,  C.C;  fabal  m.  Din. 
fácbaim,  fo-ad-gabaim  1  leave.    Ipv. 

2  s.  facaib  1915;  facaibb  3780;  fa- 
gaib  4166;  1  p.  facbum  2969;  2  p. 
f acbaid-si  3379 ;  ipf .  subj .  (analytic) 
rofbacbad  sib  e  3410 ;  3  p.  cona  fa- 
gadhais  ( =  f'adgbtis)  1267;  pret.  Is. 
dofbagbus-sa  4788;  o  rus-facus  2038; 

3  s.  rofbacaib-sium  251;  rofbac 
1712;  corus-facaib  2075,  2840,  3266, 
3548,4309;  cor-fbagaib  876;  rofba- 
caib  1919,  3334;  conis-fagaib  4549; 
3  p.  rofhacsad  1810,  4613;  rofac- 
badai'2046;  p.p.  3  p.  rofacbad  3860; 
rofacbaid  3048,  4089;  v.n.  f.  da 
fbacbail  247 ;  d'  fhagbail  1138,  4005 ; 
d'  fbácuail  1419;  d'  acbail  2058. 

f-adaigim  I  kindle,  light.  Pret.  3  s. 
fbadaigis  4682. 

f-adaim  /  kindle.  Ipv.  2  s.  fbado  4140 ; 
pret.  3  p.  rofhadodar-sam  4736 ;  pass, 
ipv.  atdaiter  458.    Ped.  n.  507. 

fadb,  fodb  m.  spoils.  Fadbairm  745; 
n.p.  faidb  1039;  acbt  mad  fadba 
1474;  comtis  fadba  2884;  ac  triall  a 
fuidb  do  buain  de  4547;  re  fadbaib 
fuilidi  3278;  re  fuil  7  re  fadbbba 
3603. 

fadb-arm  m.  war -spoil,  s}wils,  arms 
taken  in  war  745,  2216. 

fadeóid  at  last,  in  the  end  170,  4912. 

fadera,  v.  foferaim. 

fae  sin  thereupon  2981;  fai  3886;  fai 
sin  4538.    V.  fo. 

fáebur,  v.  il-f debar. 

fáebur-gorm  homing  a  blue  edge,  blue- 
edged  1155. 

fáel  wolf.   Mar  bis  fael  1602.    The. 

faelleas  gentleness,  moderation.  De- 
naid  faelleas  4025,  foilli  Eg.;  modera- 
tius  ducite  Theb.  x.  423.  P.H.  v. 
foill;  The.  924. 

fsesum,  fo-sbessam  protection,  safe- 
guard. Ar  ar  fassum  2140 ;  ar  fsesum 
a  muintire  3463.   Wi. 


faga  (fo-ga)  m.  javelin.   Eodibraic  in 
faga   di   2088;    a.s.   a    fbaga    924 
1015;    a. pi.  na   fagada  919,   1472 
n.  d.  da  fbaga  1526 ;  na  faga  f ada  989 
a.  du.  na  da  fbaga  965.    C.C,  Wi. 

f-aicsiu  seeing.  Ac  faicsin  1881;  'ca 
faigsin  4271. 

fáid  f.  cry.  Tuc  a  faid  os  aird  2102; 
tuc  a  faidi  2750;  ag  faidib  4460; 
fa  na  faidib  4575. 

fail  nearness,  i  fail  where.  I  fail  i  faicbi 
in  ndluim  3458.    Wi. 

fáilid  joyous,  qlad  1423;  ba  failid  a 
baigned  de  4722;  faelid  1525;  ba 
failid  leo  they  were  glad  1194.  C.C. 
6064-6. 

faill  negligence,  neglect.  Tucsat  na  T. 
faill  fritbailme  air  3746.    Wi.,  P.H. 

fáilte  f .  joy  537,  3842. 

fáiltigim  I  rejoice,  am  glad.  Pret,  3  s. 
failtigis  4505. 

faircsi  f.  look,  aspect,  computation, 
reckoning,  mark.  Cona  facus  fairgsi 
4512;  fuireochrus  fegtba  7  fairg- 
seana  707;  coma  haduatb  faircsena 
1517.  C.C,  The.  800;  aircsiu,  foirc- 
siu  Laivs :  v.  fég-aircsi. 

fairecb  watch,  attention  668.  Fuirecb 
m.  Din. 

fairge,  fairrge  f.  sea.  Re  fotbrand  na 
fairrgi  3039. 

fairsing  wide,  ample.  PI.  doirsi  lan- 
fairsinga  3867;  bindlesa  rofbair- 
singa  518;  pupuillaladbreca  fbair- 
singi  2738. 

f-aisneis  narrating,  telling.  Ag  fbais- 
neis  7  ag  indisiu  a  gloir  1157;  ag 
fbaisneis  seel  4727.    V.  aisneis. 

faistine  f.  prophecy.  A.s.  1700;  g.s. 
ac  iarraid  f.  1698;  firinde  fbaistine 
451,  4138;  ag  fegad  fbaistine  1216; 
taiscelta  faistine  1193;  fuagrad  na 
f.  4144;  dea  na  f.  2896,  3715;  d.s. 
ac  f.  1615;  ar  f.  3911;  tred  t'  fai- 
stine 1331;  7  dogenad  faistine  d' 
aisneis  3007. 

faitbim,  fo-ad-tibim  I  la  ugh  at  secretly, 
laugh,  deride.  Pret.  3  s.  faipbtis 
3210.  V.n.  robai  ac  faitbfed  2514; 
dorinne  faitfed  gaire  Eg.  3210.    P.H. 

faitcbes  m.  caution, fear, anxiety.  Ferg 
7  Faitcbius  1728;  a  baitbli  fbaitcis 
327  Eg.    P.H.    V.  aitcbes. 
faitecb  cautious,  shy,  afraid.    Rob  f. 

leo  1254. 
faith  m.  prophet.  N.p.  faidbi  1186; 
faidi  1193,  1254,  1263,  2626;  roga- 
bastar  delb  7  denam  araile  fatba  620. 
faitbebe  f.  plain,  lawn,  green.  Forba 
na  faichtbi  fondglaisi  2941 ;  uar  in 
faicbtbi  2649 ;  amuicb  ar  an  fbaitb- 


370 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


cbi  4769 ;  ar  faithchi  na  Teibi  1079  ; 
co  faiehthi  fondglais  a  duin  2637; 
faicheda  fondglasa  firailli  2733, 3065; 
faiehtega  3500,  faithcedha  Eg. 
fáithfed,  v.  faitbim. 
falach,  v.  folach. 
falam  empty.    Inad  f.  3913;  longphort 

lanfolam  deserted  camp  4614. 

falchaim,  folaigim,  folchaim  /  hide, 

conceal.    Pf.  dep.  3  s.  dofhalcastair 

1259;  p.p.  3  p.  rofalchait  270. 

falcmar  profuse,    copious   858;     tuili 

falomar  3507;  conreithdis  ria  srotha 

falcmara  fola  3054;   risna  srothaib 

falcmara  3484,  369  ;  o  branaib  fola 

falcmara  2914.    Déra  folcmara  The. 

fan  =  man.     Eaiadsadair    na    G.    fan 

ngilla  sin  1311.    V.  fo. 
fán-glenn  sloping  glen.    Ar  fanglend- 
taib   198,    1339;    co  linait  na  fan- 
gleanna  3137.    TSh.,  C.C. 
X     faran=barann  anger,  hostility  3387. 
farrach,  forrach  a  crushing,  oppression, 
overwhelming  977;   d'  arrach  3363; 
ba  farrach  daib  4851.   JEti. 
farrad  vicinity.   With  i  n- :  'na  fharrad 
1580;    'na  farrad  1110,   1879,  2121, 
303 ;  a  farrad  na  fer  4716 ;  robai  ina 
farrad  4728 ;  ad  t'  arrad  857.  P.H. 
fás  empty,  rain.   Fasbuille  2902;   tuc 
urcbur  fas  falaig  3437,  folaig  Eg. ; 
co  roibi  a  sdocc  fas  ag  fogrugud  da 
eis  4310. 
fásach   m.    luxuriant   groioth,   grassy 
wilderness.   G.s.  as  adj.  fásaigh  898; 
fasaig  1638;  a  fedaib  7  a  fbasacb  na 
Teibi   4592 ;    tré   fedaib  foitbremla 
^  fasaig  4673.    Cf.  fás  growth. 
fásaiglm  I  lay  waste,  leave  unoccupied. 

t  P. p. p.  fasaigtbi  1266. 
fásaim,  v.  ásaim. 

f-astad  m.  detaining.  Da  fbastud  1579; 
aga   fbastod  4175,   3889,  4347.    V. 
astad. 
fat  m.  length.    Ara  fbat  1654;   ar  fat 
inn  aeoir  along  the  air  610;    ar  fat 
na  cailli  1792;  ar  fud  in  muigi  mor- 
adbail  2347. 
fata  long,  tedious.  Ba  fada  etorru  2349; 
ni  fata  uait  3458 ;  as  fada  atú  4061 ; 
gid  fata  robetb  733;  na  faga  fada 
989;    cloideb  fata  1416;    ua  fata  re 
(  =  le)  P.  1417,   4727;    ua  fata  les- 
seom   he   thought  long  1547,   4619; 
^  compar.  ni  is  faiti  1780. 
fáth  m.   reason,  cause.    Ca  fatb  421, 
490;   arin  fatb  sin  2622;    indesait- 
sea  fatha  494. 
fáthamail  prophetic.   Fadamail  1161. 
febas   m.   excellence,   superiority.    Ee 
febbus  in  imditin  4478. 


féchaim  I  see,  look.    V.n.  'ca  fecbud 

3241.  C.C. 
fecht  m.  n.  time,  occasion.  Feacbt  n-een 
348;  i  n-oenfbecbt  423;  each  ré 
feacbt ...  an  feacbt  araill  at  one  time.. . 
at  another  977,  1787;  an  dara  f. ... 
an  f.  araill,  aili,  at  one  time  ...  at 
another  time  3748,  2073;  an  dara 
fecht  again  4719;  in  feacbt  n-aill 
1966;  in  feacbt  aile  1421;  feacht 
riam  roimi  1640;  feacht  aili  3258. 
fechtas    m.    a    time,    occasion,    once. 

Fechtus  514. 
fechtasugud  m.   alternating,   alterna- 
tion 226. 
fedil  enduring,  constant.    Flaithus  na 

ba  feidil  841. 
fégaim  I  look,  see.  Ipv.  fegh  let  3678; 
pret.  3  s.  rofegastair  324;  fegais  4875; 
rafegastar-sum   1217 ;    p.p.    3  p.   co 
rafegaid  4688;  v.n.  ac  fegadh  2146, 
3655,  3913,  4223;   fegad  445,  1216, 
1255,  1404,  2321,  2346,  4394,  4772; 
'ca  fegad  2476 ;  'ca  fhegad  3324 ;  da 
fegad  4452;  fegan  1019;  g.s.  fuireo- 
chros  fegtha  706. 
fég-aircsi  f.  seeing  keenly,  gazing  at 
2047;    cf.   fég-forcsiu   seeing-keenly 
R.C.  xxiv.  286. 
feib  as,  as  if.    Feib  co  ngluaised  firm- 

aimint  4267;  f.  tiastais  4509. 
feidm  effort,  work,  use,  efficacy,  office, 
function.  A  roibi  feidm  seisrigi  so- 
nairti  do  tharraing  942;  fedmanda 
fillti  efforts  to  bend  1275 ;  tuc  fuirmed 
fedma  air  2817.  Laws. 
feidm-nert  feat  of  strength.   Is  mo  is 

f.  a  tocbail  2481. 
féig  keen,  fierce.    Comlond  f .  170 ;  n.p. 

a  mna  fegi  1887.    C.C. 
féige    housetop,    ridge-pole,    roof-tree, 
watershed,   top.    N.p.  feigi  na   rir- 
maimindti  1283;    dar   fegaib   1339. 
Féice  Aur.,  C.C. 
féin  self,  own.   Ad  cbintaib  fein  4897; 
do  fen  1500;    ni  lem  fen  1779;    ni 
rachadail  fen  3002;   fá  torrach  uad 
fein  í  4800;  aga  n-airim  fein  1001, 
1572 ;  doibh  pfein  p.  xvii.    V.  fodéin, 
bodéin. 
feis,  fes  sleeping;  fes  ri  marrying.    Na 
comairli  dam  uadein  fes  re  hlason 
2032;  fes  dam  fein  re  hA.  3233;  ni 
airmit  scribenna  feis  re  fer  di  4912. 
V.n.  of  foaim. 
féith  honeysuckle  2525.    Wi. 
feithim  I  wait,  watch-    V.n.  ac  feichim 

1848,  'ga  feithem  Eg. 
feithmech  careful,  watchful,  cautious. 

Co  f.  2523.    TSh. 
fell  f.  treachery.  Eaindis  an  feall  1104. 


371 


24—2 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


felltach  deceitful,  treacherous  713. 

fémdim  (fo-ess-mid-)  /  am  unable,  re- 
fuse. Pf.  (pres.)  3  s.  orafheimid4471; 
dofheimid  4411 ;  v.n.  ar  femed  sida 
2794. 

feochair  fierce,  wild  755,  928,  1687, 
1710,  2726,  2870;  co  f.  819.    C.C. 

feochrach fierce  175.    C.C. 

feochrugud  m.  raging  930. 

feóil  f.  flesh.  Iumad  na  feola  1155,  Eg. ; 
a  richt  feola  1573,  1861. 

feosach  bearded  2389,  feosagach  Eg. 
McB.,  The. 

fer  m.  (1)  man.  Ba  feramail  an  fer 
894 ;  an  fer  og  907 ;  fer  dib  1295 ; 
cruaidsciath  in  fhir  969 ;  d.s.  'na  fhir 
1631,1507;  do  fhir  dib  2319;  don  fhir 
sin  2432,  4006,  690 ;  n.p.  a  rabadar 
na  fir  915,  4302 ;  na  fir  sin  992 ;  g.p. 
corpu  na  fer  4566,  4732;  d.p.  dona 
feraib  979,  4307;  tresna  feraib  sin 
3432;  a. p.  for  n.p.  can  as  tangadar 
na  firu  921,  977;  romarbsad  a  firu 
1824;  toirmiscid  na  fira  4466;  v.p. 
a  firu  1005,  1112,  2125,  2549,  3349, 
3878,  4381,  4812. 

(2)  husband.  Ac  cainead  a  fir  4641 ; 
tesmolta  a  fir  4726 ;  corp  a  fir  4697 ; 
roindis  da  fir  1507  ;  ba  hiad  ar  fhir- 
ni  4783;  ra-foetitis  re  feraib  743; 
mairbfed  mo  rnhac  7  m'  fber  1867; 
amal  romarbsad  fein  a  fir  7  a  n- 
aithrecha  2052. 

fér  m.  grass.  Ac  ithi  in  fheoir  2073; 
ac  brisiud  inn  fheoir  1786;  i  llep- 
thaib  feoir512,  3950;  d'  ingeltradh 
feoir  909;  arin  fer  fothrernail  3595; 
risna  feraib  sin  3580. 

férach  grassy  4284. 

feraim  I  pour,  give.  Ipf.  3  p.  confer- 
tais  992;  ipf.  subj.  Is.  co  fheraind 
comlann  4382 ;  pret.  3  s.  rofher-sum 
360 ;  roferastair  282 ;  1  p.  rofersum 
169;  3  p.  fersad  4874;  rofhearadar 
106;  v.n.  f.  ferthain  fhailti  1128; 
d'  fherthain  to  rain  1761.  V.  con- 
feraim. 

feramail  manly,  hold.  Ba  f.  an  fer  894, 
997;  don  ci'nedh  A.  feramail  3784; 
co  f.  2014,  4081,  4365. 

ferand  m.  land,  estate.  Tucad  ferand 
a  hathar  di  1934;  dofheimid  com- 
raind  crichi  na  feraind  4411 ;  caithim 
ind  fheraind  145;  7  is  'na  fherand 
ata  in  cloch  2779;  co  cosenad  a 
fearanda  684,  1266. 

ferandus  m.  landed  property  634.   C.C. 

fér-bruig  grass-farm,  grassy  halm. 
Bageba  ferbruigib  3496,  ferbruige 
(sic  rorr.)  Eg. 

ferda  manly,  courageous.  Fearda  1857. 


ferdacht  f.  manhood  166. 

ferfer  m.  great  man  1192.  If  notan error, 
an  ex.  of  diabul  doubling,  Aur.  5321. 

ferg  f.  anger  1728;  ba  ferg  le  868, 
2090;  toirind  t'  fheirg  4408;  tre 
fbeirg  547 ;  ar  ferg  2122 ;  in  fiuchad 
ferci  3744;  re  feochrugud  na  feirgi 
931,  1100;  rolinad  o  feirg  4594;  ro- 
scail  uad  ferg  2606;  rahadandait 
ferga  4488,  2157. 

fergach  (1)  angry  928,  1839,  3907, 
4378;  co  fergach  4364.  (2)  causing 
anger,  provoking.  Ua  fergach  ri 
hlunaind  sin  1632. 

fergaigim  I  am  angry,  I  become  angry. 
Pf.  (pies.)  3s.  rofergaiged  1653, 1691. 

fer-indisin-scel  m.  tale-teller  1160. 

férmar  grassy  898,  1812.    C.C. 

fersech  manful,  valorous.  Co  fersech 
2517;  co  fersecha  firaird  2475;  tuc 
urchur  fertsech  feramail  3300;  cf. 
re  feramla  7  fertsigi  Tbc.  1341. 

fer-togla  m.  sacker,  destroyer.  Mathair 
fhirthogla  na  cathrach  2747. 

fesand  pheasant  (?).  Midae  f.  mor  2699. 
Cf.  besan,  Aur. 

f-étaim  (f-in-ta)  I  may,  am  able.  Pres. 
Is.  ni  fhetaim  1894;  ni  edaini-sea 
2918;  ni  edaim  1073;  3  s.  ni  fetann 
3718;  fut.  Is.  each  indus  do  fédab 
1081;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  conna  fedad 
1404,  3276;  ni  etad  1582;  na  fedad 
1490 ;  3  p.  cona  fetais  1754,  fetfadis 
Eg. ;  pret.  3  s.  o  nar-et  3543;  co  nar- 
fhéd  1033;  3p.  nir-etsad  3444;  pass. 
3  s.  ni  fetar  1075,  3764;  co  na  fetar 
airim  3946. 

fetán  m.  whistle.  N.p.  fetana  513,  2225. 

fetar  /  knoiv,  I  have  known.  Pf.  1  s. 
ni  fhetar  427,  2037,  2143;  ni  fetar 
1890,3754;  rofetar-sa  3715;  rofhe- 
dar-sa  421 ;  dofhédar  1240 ;  dafhetar 
2621;  rofhedur  2956;  2  s.  rofider 
tusa  1348;  3  s.  ni  fhitir  110,  734, 
1502,  3459,  4012 ;  ni  fitir-sium  3634 ; 
ni  fidir  3896;  nar-fitir  121 ;  1  p.  nad 
fheatamar-ni  491 ;  2  p.  in  feadauar-si 
489;  3  p.  uair  na  fedadar  3230;  ni 
fetatar  3831;  p.p.  ni  fes  cia  thuc  in 
n-urchar  sin  3295 ;  v.n.  lis.  V.  find- 
aim  . 

fét-gaire  hissing,  whistling.  Ic  fead- 
gaire  184 ;  ag  fedgairi  4461 ;  ac  sir- 
fhetgaire  773. 

fetham  Hatching.  'Ga  feithem  2047. 
C.C.    V.  feithim. 

féthamail  still,  calm,  quiet.  Co  foill 
fethamail  3450 ;  ni  fethamail  confer- 
thor  3579. 

féthnaigim  /  becalm,  make  calm.  Bel. 
is  e  Neptuin  fethnaiges  in  muir  2667. 


372 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


fiacail  f.  tooth.    N.p.  fiacla  449,  905; 
fiacla   na   nathrach  1640;    d'   fhia- 
claib  2066 ;  da  fhiaclaib  3434. 
fiada  m.  witness.   Ua  oenfbiadain  1630. 

C.C. 
fiadach  m.  hunting  game.   D'  fhiadacb 

348. 
fiadnach  evident,  manifest,  conspicuous. 

Co  fiadnach  1054 ;  srótha  fola  fiadh- 
naigi  1035,   638;    urlara   fiadnacha 

325,  377;    dar  in  catbraig  fiadnaig 

613. 
fiadnaise  f.  witness,  testimony,  presence. 

I  fiadnaisi  3117,  3321;   ina  fh.  483, 

4007,4390;  'na  f.  2423. 
fiadu  m.  bearer.   Airm  gen  fiadnu  3050. 

Wi. 
fial   veil.    Tabraid   fial    falaig    1744; 

ragabsad  fial  falaid  Z.   falaig  4158. 

Thur.  Or. 
fial  modest.    In  6g  fbial  4401. 
fial-chairde /a //uZí/  relationship  3347. 
fial-chaire    kindly     love,    affectionate 

terms.     Fiarcbaire    cbairdisa    2756, 

fialcoire  Eg. ;  arin  fialchairi  mbun- 

aid  2859. 
fiamach  (1)  dreadful,  awful,  ugly  897. 

O'Dav.  No.  885.    (2)  shy,  modest  733. 

O'E. 
fian,  v.  pian. 
fiann-choscar  m.  deer-hunt  of  fiann. 

D'  fbianchoscur  349.    Tbc'  p.   105, 

Acall. 
fiarfaigim,  v.  iarfaigim. 
fiar-letrad  m.  jagged,  mangling.    N.p. 

na  fiarletarthi  fuilidi  992, 1093;  g.s. 

as  adj.  fiarletarthi  1907 ;  fiarledarthe 

4705;  fiarletairtbe  2884,  firletartha 

Eg. 
fich  feud,  fury  209 ;    ni  fich  na  ferg 

2624 ;  ba  mó  immorro  fich  7  fere  na 

ngasraid  Grec  3728;  fich  fergi  3341, 

175,  1456;  nocha  denaim-si  fich  na 

formad  834;  traetar  uar  ferga  7  uar 

ficha  2157. 
fichda  furious.  Co  fichda  fergach  4378 ; 

co  fichdo  819. 
fiche  f.  a  score,  twenty.  Is  fichi  bliadan 

2037. 
fichthech  boiling.    Ua  chrolindtib  fola 

ficbithi  2885;    fuailfed  fergi   fithigi 

3059 ;    rahadandait   ferga   ficthecha 

4489.    C.C. 
fid  m.  wood.    Don  fhid  chuanda  2210  ; 

do    fid   chuanda    2849 ;    n.p.    feda 

croebglasa  comora  1836,  286,  2222 ; 

feda  foithremra  2199;  f.  foithremla 

2268;    tré  fedaib    foithremla  4673; 

a  fedaib  4536,  4592  ;  isna  fedaib  739  ; 

a.p.  fidu  2525 ;  feda  313. 
fidba  hedge-bill  3268.    Aur. 


fidbad,  fidbaid  f.  a  wood.  Amal  fhid- 
baid  870;  ar  lar  na  fidbaide  115; 
fidbaidi  874,  2563;  foscad  fidbaidi 
4862 ;  fiduada  286. 

fid-boc  wooden  bow.  Saigid  a  fidbaic 
2582.    C.C. 

fid-druim  wooded  ridge.  Cosna  fid- 
dromandaib  696. 

fid-nemed  m.  sacred  grove.  Eobai  fid- 
nemed  1873 ;  fidnemad  fhoithrea- 
mail  4763  ;  i  llepthaib  fidnemid  512, 
3950;  n.p.  fidnemeda  288;  comma 
fograch  na  fidnemid  2199,  1555;  co 
fidnemeadaib  898;  isna  fidnemedaib 
739,  3755.    C.C. 

ftdrensound  of  fire,  hiss,  roar  2245.  C.C. 

flgrad premonition ,  omen.  Figrad  firuile 
3234;  ua  figrad  firuile  750,  2720;  fid 
grad  1852,  2585.  Fiugrad  Wi.,  P.H 

fileta  poetic  1161. 

fili,  filid  m.  poet.  N.s.  an  filid  1218; 
g.s.  in  flesc  filead  624;  n.p.  filid  344; 
a.p.  (as  n.p.)  fileada  1188. 

fillim  I  turn,  draw  (rein),  bend  (bow). 
Pret.  3  s.  fillis  aradna  na  hechraidi 
ar  culu  4416;  v.n.  filliud;  g.s.  fed- 
manda  fillti  1276. 

fin  m.  ivine.  7  fin  7  fuil  2249 ;  do  dei 
in  fhina  1615, 1717 ;  do  dei  inn  fhina 
618,  2725;  fleada  fina  2410,  3876; 
rodoirt  A.  fin  2589. 

find,  Ann  white.  Lecana  finna  1663  ; 
p.  xvi. 

findaim  I  find  out,  know.  Subj.  pres. 
1  p.  co  findam  4001 ;  co  findar  4227, 
8;  fut.  2  s.  rofhindfa  tussu  429. 
V.  fetar. 

find-buide/rttr  and  yellow  2453. 

fin-gal  f.  murder  of  a  tribesman,  fratri- 
cide. Ac  fur  na  fingaili  1364 ;  ac 
fegad  na  fingaili  sin  4491 ;  ar  fingail 
claindi  1576  ;  da  fingail  4466.  P.H., 
cf.  O'D. 

finnitneacn  prudent  1190;  finideach 
wise,  prudent  O'E. 

fir  true.  Innis  dam  in  at  firu  na  fisi 
3708;  madh  firu  3709, 

fír-álaind  very  beautiful,  splendid  2101, 
4284. 

fir-amnas  very  harsh,  fierce  2821. 

fir-ard  very  high.  Foscad  fidbaidi  fir- 
airdi  4862. 

fir-catha  truth  of  battle,  trial  by  com- 
bat. Ni  bá  maith  th'  fhirchatha  idir 
4409;  nifircatha4430.  Acall.  3018  n. 

fír-chrúaid  very  hard.  Co  fircruaidh 
2517. 

fir-domain  very  deep.  Comma  hall  fir- 
domuin  2940;  is  at  firdoimne  4704, 
firdoimne  Eg. ;  firdomni  596;  robui 
tuili  falcmar  firdomain  3507. 


373 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


firen  just,  impartial.  Co  f.  4254,  co 
firentai  Eg. ;  7  ua  fiu  maccu  firena 
337. 

fir-eolach  very  learned,  very  skilful 
1153,  1190,  2004,  2220,  2650,  3008, 
3570,  4137,  4218. 

fír-eólas  m.  true  skill,  knowledge,  guid- 
ance 3007. 

fír-fáebrach  true-edged,  keen  edged  1416. 

fír-fháistine  f.  true  prophecy  341. 

fir-fhergach  very  angry  1687. 

fir-fhin  true  wine.    Bandsi  firtina  703. 

fír-fuar,  fir-uar  very  cold  2771. 

fir-garg  very  fierce  2870. 

fír-gér  very  sharp  965,  989,  1566, 
1954. 

fir-glan  very  bright,  very  clear  2268, 
2771,  3496,  3500. 

fir-glic  very  wise  733;  co  f.  2523. 

fir-gol  sincere  weeping.  Tuc  a  faid  fir- 
guil  2102,  2750. 

fír-gránda  very  hideous  596,  2389. 

firinde  f.  truthfulness.  F.  faistine 
4137,  451;  f.  fregra  1192;  d'  iarraid 
a  firindi  1213;  d'  indisi  firindi  1651. 

fír-láech  m.  true  hero  984;  fich  fergi 
na  firloech  2721. 

fír-lúath  very  swift  2401;  co  f.  3357, 
4326. 

flrmamint  f.  firmament  2342;  a.s.  feib 
co  ngluaised  firmaimint  4267;  retla 
na  firmaminti  270, 1170, 1217,  1964; 
fraigthi  na  f .  716 ;  cruinne  na  f .  uili 
1300;  crislach  cocuasta  na  finm- 
méindti  3078. 

fír-meblach  truly  shameful  714. 

fir-mesc  very  intoxicating  459. 

fír-mór  very  great.  Ferga  ficthecha 
firmora  4489 ;  re  met  na  fergi  firmoiri 
2545,  2017;  ana  n-oireadaib  firmora 
3990,  1910;  na  frasa  firmora  4236. 

fir-olc  m.  a  veritable  evil.  Fidgrad 
iiruilc  1853;  figrad  firuilc  3234. 

fír-trúag  very  wretched.  Fa  na  faidib 
firtruagha  4575. 

fis,  fius  knowledge,  neivs,  message.  Ua 
doilig  a  fhis  7  a  haisnes  2736;  can 
fis  1111,  1260;  firindi  fesa  1263; 
can  fhis  4401,  2785;  bagebaind  fis 
in'  athar  126;  dochuir  A.  fesa  uad 
4039 ;  d'  iarraid  fhesa  7  eolais  2254, 
fhessa  7  eolais  33.    V.  fetar. 

fis  vision.  Fis  faistine  1633 ;  o  na 
fuaradar  fis  1194;  fegad  na  fisi  sin 
1255;  in  at  firu  na  fisi  3708;  ni 
cbreitir-sium  fisi  622 ;  o  fhis  7  o 
fhaistine  4144;  um  thuilleadh  fhis 
do  denam  doib  4157. 

fiseacda  m.  physician.  N.s.  an  fis- 
eacda  1153,  in  fisige  Eg.,  L.  phy- 
sicus. 


flsid,  m.  wizard.  Eabai  an  fisidh  'na 
thasd  4155 ;  in  fisid  fireolach  2220, 
3008,  3569,  3930,  4137,  4218;  da 
fisid  1226;  risin  fisid  4154;  fisidi 
1186,  1623,  4, 1254  and  2626  (sic  I.) ; 
delb  7  denanj  fatha  7  fisid  620. 

Fiton  Python.  Darsa  comainm  Fitoin 
496. 

fiu  worthy  of.  «With  ace. :  ua  f.  maccu 
337. 

fiuchad  m.  boiling.  Re  f.  na  fergi  1996, 
2017,  2209;  ac  fiuchud  2249;  in 
fiuchadh  ferci  3744,  3483.  Fiuchud 
G.C. 

flucbtugud  m.  boiling.    F.  fergi  768. 

fláithemnas  m.  principality,  sove- 
reignty.  Gan  flaitheamnas  3381, 
4531  Eg. 

jiáitb-gaili  prince  of  valour.    Latha- 

fláithius  m. principality ,  kingdom,  rule. 
Nocha  racha  an  flaithius  1143;  ina 
rigi  7  flaithius  4337,  4531,  4597;  in 
flaithes  830;  firindi  flaithiusa  673, 
680;  <T  iarraid  a  fhlaithis  1103, 
flaithiusa  Eg  ;  union  flaithus  1105. 

fled  f.  feast.  Re  fritholam  na  fleidi  sin 
461,'  6;  rucsat  fleda  fina  3876,  459, 
1646,  2410. 

fledach  festive.   Co  f.  4632. 

fledugud  m.  feasting  3890. 

fleochad,  flechud  m.  ivet,  rain-water. 
Tromchetha  falcmara  fleochaid  369. 

flesc  f.  rod,  sceptre,  wand.  Amlaid 
robai  in  f hlesc  590 ;  cadruca  ainm  na 
fleisci  sin  590;  tabraid  fieisc  na  rigi 
4542;  dodiubraic  uad  in  fleisc  882; 
fleisc  cumachtaich  589. 

fliuch  wet.  Ba  salcha  fliucha  na  fiar- 
letairthi  1093 ;  comdis  fliuch  iad  3711 . 

fo  under,  amid,  along:  prep,  with  dat. 
and  ace.  With  pronominal  elements: 
3  s.  da  ech  oengela  fóe  2290 ;  fae  2294, 
2694  ;  foe  seic 2305;  risin  n-ech  buifai 
2374,  2393,  4443;  possessive  3s.  m. : 
foa  bruach  3609 ;  ua  deoid  878 ;  3  s.  f . 
fuithi  2473;  3  p.  fuithib  1888,  3519, 
4109;  with  art. :  uan  cloich  sin  954; 
fon  dorus  1111 ;  fon  egiom  towards 
the  cry  2079;  fon  samla  sin  3578, 
3657,  3752,  4122 ;  fan  samla  sin  2165, 
4017,  4642,  4741,  4749,  4830;  ban 
samla  sin  1989,  3141,  3206,  3256, 
3335;  proleptic  use:  fee  sin  2188, 
2981;  fai  sin  4538;  fá  eathaidib 
áeoir  7  fa  chuanartaib  con  4588 ;  int 
ech  robui  fa  P.  2358 ;  ba  na  miledaib 
4815. 

(1)  under.  Enceladus  bá  tri  sleib- 
tib  1298 ;  fa  shliab  Athna  1295 ;  ua 
cosaib  1464,  1786,  2908;  na  dluiged 


374 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


fo  Grecaib  amal  dorigne  ba  A.  3014 ; 
eieh  ua  Cromis  2300. 

(2)  amid.  Fa  na  faidib  firtruagba 
sin  4575;  fuasnad  ba  sluagaib  Grec 
2606;  adclilos  ua  chatbrachaib  na 
Greci  2190;  adclos  ua  na  Grecaib 536; 
roscail  in  seel  sin  bakilltuathaib  na 
nGrec  3358. 

(3)  along.  Fo  chricba  7  cbendacba 
na  Greigi  nili  1181;  nan  catb  3275; 
ba  srutb  Melais  2669,  2670;  ba  tho- 
bar  nGargais  2669. 

(4)  by.  Ua  cbeol  a  chruiti-sium 
852;  7  a  ingen  fá  laim  by  her  hand 
4559. 

(5)  witb  verbs  of  '  attacking ' : 
upon.  Imasai  fein  fo  na  sluagbaib 
4204,  2867,  3206;  imasae  fa  sluag 
3147;  ua  tbretaib  3207;  ba  brada- 
naib  3520. 

fo,  for  im,  imb  (6)  about.  Guidim- 
si  tusa  fon  mac  sin  3706 ;  a  cathbarr 
uo  eenn  3663;  nir-lam  laecb  do  T. 
a  foduadb  fo  cloidem  na  fo  cathbarr 
3660;  fa(='ma)  cbomair3545;  raiad- 
sabair  fan  (  =  'man)  gille  sin  1311; 
rotbairmisc  in  seel  sin  fa  P.  2767 ; 
fon  dorus  1111;  inair  cbsema  fa 
chneasaib  na  eurad  1275. 

fo,  fa  multiplicatives.  Fá  dó  twice 
4809 :  bá  dó  4476 ;  fa  dó  2428 ;  fo  tri 
i/m'cf  3703;  batri3441,3;  uatril913. 
Ua  chomaird  abreast  2443 ;  ua 
cleith  secretly  506;  ar  each  oen  ba 
leith  dib  severally  2316;  bbu  dbes 
in  tlie  south  4905. 

fó  good.   Is  fo  lim  3380. 

foaim  I  sleep,  foaim  ri  marry.  Ipf. 
subj.  3  p.  rafoetitis  743;  no  co  faeitis 
2648,  faethidis  Eg.;  fut.  subj.  3  p. 
rofaidhfidis  Eg.  743;  risi  faeidfidis 
340;  v.n.  feis,  fes  q.v. 

fobart,  fobairt,  v.  fuabraim. 

focberdaim  I  throw,  cast.  Ipf.  3  s. 
focherded  2434. 

fochlocán  small  or  young  pupil.  Foch- 
lachán  3598.    Aur. 

fochmen  a  wound  .i.  focuma,  fuban, 
fuba  p.  xv. 

focbond,  focbonn  reason,  cause  2080, 
fochain  Eg.;  tre  fochann  a  lesmathar 
4810. 

focbrach,  fo-comracb  troubling,  rend- 
ing. Comafocbracb  firmaimintl794. 
y    focbuitbed  m.  a  deriding.    V.n.  of  fo- 
com-tib-im.     Ac  focbuidmed  inimi 
2515. 

focraim,  v.  fuagraim. 

focus  near.    Is  facus  uar  coibnes  2137. 

fodbad  m.  stripping,  spoiling.  Nir-lam 
laecb  do  T.  a  fodhuadh  3660.    C.C. 


fodbugud  m.  stripping,  spoiling.  Iarna 
fudbogud  1099 ;  nir  miad  7  nir  maisi 
re  mac... a  f.  impu  sin  3218.    C.C. 

fodéin.  Uadein  1387,  1419,  1503.  V. 
féin,  bodéin. 

fo-desta  now.    Uadeasta  1377. 

fo-emaim  /  accept,  receive,  agree  3968, 
4168;  rofhaem  2960;  ni  rus-faem 
4400;  nir-fasm  4174;  nir-fhaem2548; 
gu  nar-fhaem  142. 

foémdim,  fo-ess-midiur,  I  cannot,  I 
refuse.  Pret.  3  s.  dofbeimid  4411. 
V.  fémdim. 

fóen  prostrate.  L.  supinus.  Atchond- 
cadar  na  firu  foena  1907.    Tbc. 

fo-feraim  I  cause.  Pres.  3  s.  fo-d-era, 
fadera  he  causes  it.  Is  ed  uadera 
433,  565,  2354,  3693;  ar  as  si  fodera 
a  hathair  do  bbadhud  803. 

fo-gabaim  I  find,  get.  Pres.  subj.  3  s. 
re  siu  bhagaba  bas  4543;  ipf.  subj. 
3  s.  co  na  faghad  986 ;  uair  ni  fagad 
1342;  no  ga  fadba  corp  a  fir  4697; 
co  fagbadh  Eg. ;  fut.  1  s.  dogeb-sa 
4272 ;  ni  buigbead  3377  ;  2  s.  bageba 
3496;  3  p.  doghebat  1044;  2  fut. 
1  s.  co  fuigbind  2956;  3  s.  co  bfuigbed 
se  slainte  806 ;  2  p.  co  buigbed  sibsi 
2180;  p.  2  fut.  3  s.  fagebtha  4840; 
v.n.  f.  do  fagbail  a  oidhedha  1048, 
1693,1252,4019;  d'fhaghbail3562;  d' 
fadbail  agaib4654;  bassd'fadbail4746. 

fogal, fogail  f. plundering.  Ar  fogail 93. 

fognaim  I  serve,  am  of  use,  avail. 
Pret.  3  s.  nir-fhogain  3955;  v.n. 
fognam  4603. 

fogracb  noisy,  resounding.  Ba  fograch 
2247,  716,  1794,  2198.    C.C. 

fogradacb  sounding,  resonant,  echoing. 
Ba  fogradack  firmamint  2342. 

fogragad  sound,  noise  1285.  Fogrig- 
edar  Wb.  12»  27. 

fograigim  I  sound.  Pret.  3  p.  rofo- 
graigsed  1336;  v.n.  fogragad  1285, 
1337;  ic  fogrugud  4310;  n.p.  stoc- 
fhograigthi  trumpet-blasts  748. 

fo-grainne  spear-point.  O  fograinne  co 
hurlaind  3054.    C.C. 

fo-gresim  I  urge  secretly.  Pret.  3  s. 
ante  fogres  4369. 

fogur  m.  sound.  Ba  hadbal  a  fogur 
bres  4820,  2011 ;  risin  fogur  bres 
2607 ;  adcualadar  fogur  bres  3995. 

foidim  I  send.  Pf .  3  s.  rofaidhestar  55 ; 
rofhaideastar-sum  520.    P.H. 

foilcim  I  wash.  Indister  connar-foil- 
eead  a  fbolt  2995.    P.H. 

fóill  stealthy.    Co  f.  3450. 

foillsigim  I  show,  reveal.  Pres.  3  s.  co 
nach  foillsigend  1219;  pret.  3  s.  ra- 
fhoillsig  637;  p.p.  dofoillsiged  3801. 


375 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


foirend  f.  portion,  troop,  body,  some. 
Forind  dona  fearaib  1399. 

foirfe  perfect,  old,  senior  Theh.  vu. 
253.  Foirfi  2650;  ba  fortesta  forbthi 
in  rigan  2749. 

fóirim  I  succour,  help.  Eel.  is  e  fhoires 
2662 ;  ipv.  2  s.  foir  orum  p.  xvii. 

foirithin  f .  succour,  help.  Ba  fortacht  7 
ba  forithin  mor  3290;  7  ba  foirith- 
in dosum  sin  3426 ;  ag  iarraid 
fhoirithne  4248,  4692,  4754;  dober- 
sa  fortacht  7  foirithin  1080;  da 
forithin  1719;  i  f.  2169;  d'  fhoiridin 
3790;  Adraist  d'  fhoirithin  3461, 
4087;  da  forithin  3456;  d'  foiridh- 
tin  3858,  3425  Eg.;  ag  iarraid  a  n- 
itchi  um  fhoirithin  4767. 

foithre  woods.  A  fedaib  7  a  foithrib 
4536.    C.C. 

foithremail  bosky,  richly  wooded.  Fid- 
nemad  f.  4763;  arin  fer  fothremail 
3595;  fida  foithremla  2268,  foith- 
remra  Eg.;  feda  foithremra  2199; 
uar  feraib  futhremra  1427 ;  (are  fedaib 
foithremla  4673,  fothremra  Eg. 
Acall.,  C.C. 

folach  hiding,  concealment.  Cá  folach 
doberthai  921;  quidve  occultatis  in 
armis  Theb.  11.  535;  g.s.  fial  falaig 
1744;  fial  falaid  I.  falaig  4159;  tuc 
urehar  fas  falaig  3437;  roopredar 
CBBiti  falaig  form  3507;  aca  falach 
3515.    Cf.  tola,  folaid  Laws. 

folaigim  I  hide,  conceal.  Pret.  3  s. 
rofholaig  4571;  rofalaig  1502;  do- 
fhalcastair  1259. 

follus  clear,  visible,  evident.  Ba  follus 
1993;  is  follus  4001;  coma  follus 
Ip.  3656. 

folmugud  m.  act  of  emptying  3818. 

fo-longim  I  support,  endure.  Pres. 
3  s.  ni  fuilgid  3785;  nir-fhuiling 
3479;  nir-fhulaing  528,  4866;  ipf. 
3  s.  faelait-sium  4236  ;  3  p.  ni  foeltais 
1756 ;  co  na  f .  3255 ;  confseltis  3387 ; 
fiel-stem  with  ro-  becomes  pret.  1  s. 
ni  hi  seo  eeidid  roftelius-sa  2233 ;  3  s. 
nir-ael  2892;  0  nar-fael-sam  3629; 
nir-fhselastar-si  783  ;  nochar-fuiln- 
gastair  1065;  3  p.  nir-feelsatar  215; 
v.n.  raba  doilig  fulang  4109;  ré  fu- 
lang4851 ;  ac  fulang  imnid3516;  nir- 
ffil  fulang  2892  ;  nir-fet  a  fhulang 
Eg. 

folt  m.  hair  of  head.  Co  ma  forderg  a 
fholt  2529;  connar-foilcead  a  fholt 
2995 ;  7  a  folt  scailti  3587 ;  a  fholt 
dualach  2449;  rogob  ar  bun  inn  fhoilt 
2453;  da  fult  2101;  rothesc  a  fholt 
2240;  ni  da  faltib  743. 

folúaimnigim  I  fly,  flutter.    Pret.  3  s. 


rofoluaimnig  1199;  v.n.  foluaimni- 
gud  184. 

fo-lúamainfl  hovering,  flying,  fluttering. 
Ar  f.  1854;  ag  f.  4461.    P.H. 

fo-luamnach  flying,  quivering,  revol- 
ving. G.s.f.  "foíuamnigi  270,  189; 
amal  bis  ethaid  foluaimnech  2100; 
co  firluath  foluaimneach  3357,  4326. 

fo-mámugud  m.  subjugating,  subjection 
840,  4603.    Fomámaigthe  C.C. 

fond-glas  having  a  green  surface  1812; 
co  faichthi  fondglais  2637 ;  ar  lar 
na  faidchi  fondglaissi  4423;  forba  na 
faichthi  fondglaisi  2941,  3039;  na 
faicheada  fondglasa  3065. 

for  on,  upon:  prep,  with  dat.  and  ace. 
For  mathair Apaill-fuirri  1690;  for  ar- 
oile  4478;  uar  aird  1424,  urard  Eg.; 
uar  gasraid  332;  bar  in  fer  3142; 
uar  feraib  1427 ;  uar  na  deib  1760;  uar 
na  sluagaib  2503 ;  uar  Thid  560 ;  uar 
a  chele  667;  uar  barr  1965;  uar  a 
chliu  1416;  7  se  bar  eoch  3116;  bar 
mur  4243;  bar  Eidiph  4594;  1  s. 
oram  1120;  orm  1317,  1700;  orum 
1823,  3258,  2550;  2  s.  fort  1042, 
3387;  ortsu  1708,  3494;  3  s.m.  bai 
fair  931, 1213, 1573,  4136;  3s.f.uirri 
2072;  fuirri  904,  1203,  1690,  3498; 
lp.  foraind4263;  oraindi  2009;  oir- 
ni  1317  Eg.;  oraind  1769,  1772,  1903, 
4601;  2  p.  orb-si  1825;  oraib  1859, 
3310;  foraib  3944,  4001;  3  p.  forra 
4374;  form  1064,  1908;  orra  1119, 
3944;  orro  1598,  1757;  orru  2274. 

for-aesta  very  aged.  Fa  foraesta  andsin 
he  2430,  2748. 

foraire  f.  watching,  sentry,  vidette. 
G.s.  inad  farairi  897;  re  lucht  na 
foraire  3887 ;  p.  xvii;  n.p.  forairedha 
3872;  cor-erigsedar  fairiri  4742;  a 
faraireadha  do  marbad  4070  ;  arnach 
cuirdis  na  fairaireda  3997 ;  T.  ramarb 
na  foraireada  4043.    C.C. 

for-aon  along  with.  Foraon  friu  3683. 
V.  rnaróen. 

forb  f.  land,  holding,  heritage.  Na  leie 
foirb  na  fearandus  do  634.  Orb  g.s. 
orba  Laws  599. 

forba  glebe  land  2941.  .i.  fearann  O'Cl. 

for-ba  end,  consummation.  For-pa  4591 
Eg. 

for-báilid,  forbáelid  very  joyous.  Bi 
co  fosaidh  7  forbailid  4368;  ba  f. 
Baich  dona  scelaib  sin  2629 ;  co 
subach  forfailid  4229. 

for-bairt  f.  increasing,  growing.  Ac 
forbairt  1671;  v.n.  of  forberim. 

forbais  besieging,  beleaguering.  Ac  for- 
bais  foraib  3944;  ag  forbais  forro 
4300,  4302,  3.    C.C. 


376 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


forbaise   f.   beleaguerment.    D'forbaisi 

4040.    TSh. 
for-berim,  for-bairim  I  increase.    Ro- 

forbairintib  2545;  v.n.  forbairt.  Laws. 
forcend  m.  end.    I  forciund  2872;  co 

forceand  saegail  2184,  2919. 
for-chomol  m.   bondage,  restraint.    A 

forcbomal  4750.    Acall. 
for-cinded  m.  ending,  end,  completion. 

I  forcindiud  in  comraic  2829. 
for-coimét  a  (ward,  watch  3873;  n.p. 

forcoimedaid.  an  baili  4743.    Wi. 
f-ord  m.  rank,  order.    A  fhuird  irgaili 

2637. 
for-delugud  distinction  4512. 
forderg  red,  crimson  415,  2095,  2529, 

4190,  4504;  faidb  forderga  1039. 
for-dergaim   I   redden,    crimson.    Ipf. 

subj.  3  s.  go  nfordergad  1547;    ro- 

forclergad  3477. 
fordingim  I  press  down,  thrust.   Pret. 

3  s.  fordingis  4524. 
for-dol    error,    straying.     Dochuadar 

fordol  conairi  2365.    For-dul  The. 
for-dorcha  very  dark.    Dar  agaid  for- 

dorcha  3388. 
for-gell  testimony,  witness,  oracle.   Tre 

forgill  42. 
for-gellim  I  testify.    Pres.  3  p.  amar 

fhorglit  na  faib'li  785.   Wi. 
forglide  chosen,  choicest,  best.  Forglide 

337.    C.C. 
for-gránna  very  hideous,  very  hateful 

1958,  3841. 
for-laind  furious,  enraged  998.     For- 

luinne  rage,  C.C. 
for-mat  envy.    A.s.  nocha  denaim-si 

fich  na  f  ormad  834 ;  ba  hadbul  tra 

misgais  7  formad  4433. 
formna  shoulder.    Conberad  a  ormna 

(dual)  1483;   ua  nochta  formna  na 

fer  sin  1527 ;  dar  a  formnaibh  3584 ; 

dar  a  formna  2450. 
fórnell  appearance,  sight,  vision  1988. 

Formell  na  fola  fomiaide  Ir.  Texte, 

ii.  133 ;  fóirnéal  na  fola  flannruaidh 

Reliq.  Celt.  n.  438.   Fóirneal  appear- 
ance, colour  O'R. 
for-nert   excess   of  strength,  violence. 

Re  fornert  inn  imroma  2016 ;  a  for- 

nirt  catbaigtbi  3443.    P.H. 
for-odar  very  gray,  crimson.  G.s.  sruth 

fala  foruidri  638,  forruaidbi  Eg. 
for-réil  very  manifest,  very  clear.  Coma 

forreill  1988. 
for-rúad  very  red,  crimson.    Coma  f. 

3531,  4504;  o  brsenaib  fola  forruaidi 

2914 ;    ua   cbrolindtib   fola   fichitbi 

forruaidi  2886.    Wi. 
for-ruamanta  deep-red.    Forruamanda 

1955. 


for-rúamnaim  I  redden,  anoint,  smear. 
Co  forruamait  3073,  forruamnait  Eg. 
P.  p.  roforruamnad  corp  2437,  8.  Cf . 
ruamnad  C.C. 

fortacht  f.  help,  aid.  Fortacht  7  foiri- 
tbin  d'  fadbail  4148;  ba  fortacht  7 
ba  forithin  3290 ;  d'  iarraid  fortacbta 
3328,  4692;  dei  fortochta  3700;  sirid 
fortacht  4669 ;  dober-sa  f.  1080, 1769, 
1918;  ac  fortacht  1725,  3182;  i  for- 
tacht 2169;  d'  fhortacht  3425;  da 
fhortacht  3456. 

for-táim  I  am  upon.  An  buaidred  baisi 
for-atai  3754. 

for-toirse  f.  great  sorrow,  exceeding 
sadness.    Ac  fortoirsi  4455  Eg. 

for-trén  very  strong  2014. 

fós  (1)  besides,  further,  in  addition 
1445;  7  adcorinairc  fos  3696.  (2) 
still,  till  noiv.  Bis  fos  isan  inat  sin 
1641 ;  rouai-seom  fos  aca  pocad-si 
1893. 

fosad-glan  having  a  fair  foundation, 
or  phps.  level  and  pure  613.    C.C. 

fosaid  composed,  steadfast.  Fá  fosaid 
an  firlaech  983;  co  fledach  fosaid 
4632 ;  bi  co  fosaidh  forbailid  4368 ; 
in  luamairi  fosaich  2004 ;  co  fosaid 
1151.    Fossad  Wi.,  fossaigthe  Tbc. 

fo-scad  m.  shadow.  A.s.  4677;  coma 
samalta  ré  foscad  4862 ;  tresna  foisc- 
thib  596. 

fo-sbeinm  jingling,  champing.  Ac  fo- 
shenm  na  srianmireand  3064 ;  ac 
fosenm  na  srianmirend  2341;  ac 
foshenm  a  srein  3492. 

f-oslaicim  I  open.  Ipv.  2  p.  fhoslaigid 
4891 ;  pret.  3  s.  rofhosclastair  601 ; 
rooslaic  2941;  dofhoslaig  1018;  p.p. 
rohoslaicit  271,  1657,  2027;  rofhos- 
clad  dibh  4907;  p.p.p.  oslaicthi  324, 
2072;  v.n.  aga  n-oslugud  3941. 

fosugud  m.  maintaining^  standing  fast 
3255. 

fothamail  belonging  to  the  foundation. 
Fraigthi  fothamla  277. 

fo-thrand  din,  noise.  Fathrand  2244 ; 
fothrand  mor  3995;  re  fuaim  7  re 
fothrand  na  fairrgi  3039 :  fo  +  torand. 

fo-thruicim  I  bathe.  V.n.  arna  fo- 
thracud  3703. 

fotraicim  I  shake,  shatter,  dash  to 
pieces.  Pret.  3  s.  rofotraicsidar  1002, 
Theb.  11.  619  quassabat.  Cf.  co 
rus-fothraic  Tbc.  2187;  cf.  treg- 
daim. 

fraig  f.  wall.  A.p.  fraigthi  276,  716. 

fras  f  shower.  Tucsat  frais  3657;  ro- 
glan  na  frasa  fala  di  3389 ;  conferdis 
na  frassa  sin  3772 ;  7  roshilestarfrassa 
forgranna  3841;  fselait-sium  tra  na 


377 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


frasa  firmora  4236,  4239;  frassa  der- 
mara  724;  frasa  diana  1374,  2176, 
2326 ;  ba  he  an  dlus  na  fras  sin  4112 ; 
re  frasaib  cruaidi  1982. 

frasach  showery,  bedewed.  Adchondairc 
in  fer  frasach  2095 ;  iter  na  nellaib 
frasacha  2488. 

frasaim  I  shower.  P.p.  3  p.  rofrasaid 
3086;  v.n.  a  frasad  na  fala  3074. 

fras-imram  spray-rowing.  Ac  frasim- 
ram  in  mara  2003. 

frasugud  m.  causing  to  shower  399. 

frecraim,  fris-gur-im  /  answer.  Pret. 
3  s.  frecrais  2883 ;  fhregrais  4787 ;  ro- 
fbrecair  2950, 3400 ;  rafhregair  4778 ; 
3  p.  rofregradar-sam  4758 ;  p.p.  ro- 
frecrad  esium  2423 ;  v.n.  fregra  904 ; 
d'  iarraid  fhrecra  1875. 

frem  root.   As  a  fremaibh  3638. 

frestlaim  I  await,  attend,  serve.  Pret. 
3  s.  rofhreastail  2526;  v.n.  da  frestal 
2804;  re  frestal  461,  464.    C.C. 

frith-ailim  /  attend,  wait  for,  prepare 
for.  Ipv.  3  s.  frithailead'4793;  pret. 
3  s.  frithailis  2883;  pf.  3  s.  rofrithail 
2486,  2816,  2847,  2887;  rofhritboil 
2526;  p.ipf.  subj.  3s.minafrithailtea 
2472;  v.n.  fritbaileam  470;  dia  fri- 
thaileam  sideic  2456,  2804;  da  fri- 
tbaileam ar  sin  2477 ;  aca  fbritbalam 
2523;  tucsat  faill  f rithailme  air  3746. 

frithe  find,  waif.  "Ua  feochair  fir- 
chruthach  in  frithi  sin  756. 

frith-olam  ministering,  awaiting.  Ee 
fritholam  461,  668.    V.  frith-ailim. 

fromadm.  proving,  testing.  Ac  fromad 
a  luith  2442. 

fuabartach  aggressive  1710,  3417 ;  fua- 
partach  1857. 

fuabraim,  fo-od-berim/rtiii/c/c,  threaten, 
begin,  lead  astray.  Pret.  3  s.  rofo- 
bair  2861,  2886,  3164;  roopair  3195, 
2400;  roopair-sium  2523;  roobair 
3201,3510;  rofhobair  4081 ;  rofhop- 
air  2856 ;  rofopair  3553  ;  3  p.  rofuaib- 
redar  2877;  roopredar  3507;  rofo- 
bradar  4563;  rofoibredar  3167,  roo- 
pratar  Eg. ;  rofobradar  4563 ;  v.n.  f. 
da  fobairt  3929;  do  threnfobairt  4060; 
trenfhobairt  3924. 

fuacraidf.rccssirel359;  g.s.  of  fuacrad 
challenge,  Laws.    Same  as  fnagrad. 

fuagrad  proclamation,  order,  burden. 
F.  na  faistine  4144 ;  v.n.  of  fua- 
graim  P.H. 

fuagraim,  fuacraim,  fo-od-gar-im  I 
proclaim,  denounce.  Ipf.  3  s.  rofo- 
crad  2305 ;  pret.  3  s.  rofuacair  2554 ; 
rofocair  2839 ;  rofhogair  4836 ;  3  p. 
rof  uagratar  814. 

fuailfed   a  fluttering,   movement,    con- 


vulsion. Eos-lin  fuailfed  fergi  3059; 
f .  feirgi  na  deisi  sin  a  thabairt  os  aird 
4316 ;  fuailfeadh  .i.  foluamain  no 
luaimnig  fluttering  or  moving  O'Cl. 

fuaim  a  sound.   Fuaim  na  ndorus  3940. 

fuaimnecb  a  sound  4101 ;  foscad  7 
fuaimnech  4677. 

fualang  m.  giddiness,  frenzy.  Ar.  f. 
2122.    TSh. 

fualasc  twig.  D.s.  d'  fhualascaib  2210. 

fualascach  grove  of  tirigs,  plantation. 
G.s.  ar  lar  fualascaigh  46;  a. p.  fual- 
ascada  313,  874.   Acall. 

fualraigthi  filthy  red  282.    Fual  Wi. 

fuar  /  have  found,  got  used  as  supple- 
mentary pf.  of  gabaim.  1  s.  fuar-us- 
sa  1055;  nocha  nfuarus  1227;  o  na 
fuarus  2054;  3  s.  fuair-siom  808;  nl 
fuair  3634;  ni  fhuair  4256;  o  na 
fuair  he  2077,  3337;  o  dofuair  3594; 
2  p.  fuaribar  656,  fuarabar  Eg.;  3 p. 
co  fuaridar  bas  2783,  2910;  fuaradar 
896,  955,  1194,  1759,  3942,  4734; 
p.p.  3  s.  frith  p.  xv. 

f-uarda  cold,  chill  368,  596,  2771  Eg. 

fuasait  f.  animosity,  spite,  rancour. 
Leigid  as  uar  feirg  7  uar  fuasait  437 ; 
g.s.  togail  fhuasaidi  1164.  Fuasaoid 
f.  TSh. 

fuascrach  frightened  2401,  fuaisgrech 
Eg.  Fuascradhm.  fright,  terror  O'R. 

fuasnad  m.  tumult,  disturbance,  agita- 
tion 296,  1728,  2606;  f.  mor  363. 

fuasnadach  tumultuous,  disturbed,  for- 
midable 610,  948.    C.C. 

fúataiglm  I  not  away  with,  carry  off. 
Pret.  3  s.  is  and  rofuataig  2815.  Wi. 

fudommanta  abysmal  2941;  is  at  fu- 
dammanta  firdoimne  na  halaid  4704. 
P.H.  s.  fudomain. 

fuigell  judgment  1665;  dotairisinn  ar 
Creon  a  fhuigell  4384. 

fuil  f.  blood.  7  fin  7  fuil  ac  fiuchud 
2249;  g.s.  srotba  fola  1035;  arna 
lintib  fala  1910;  na  sruthanaib  fala 
1611;  d'  fhuil  a  tengad  1864,  1933, 
2095 ;  re  fuil  3602. 

fuilech  bloody  64. 

fuilide  blood)/  992,  1039,  1956,  2529, 
3278,  3388,  3531,  4190.    C.C. 

fuilim  I  am  rel.  and  enclitic  of  -tdim. 
Pres.  Is.  ni  fhuilim  2145;  i  fuilim 
3311 ;  nocha  n-uilim-si  933,  nfuilim- 
si  Eg. ;  2  s.  da  uili  572 ;  3  s.  nocha  n- 
uil  1115;  ina  uil  1808;  ni  fuil  568, 
3233;  ni  fhuil  861,  3494,  3883;  ca 
migradh  fuil  agut  1042,  4414,  4468; 
fil  acut  1505;  fuil  and  1673;  co  hairm 
a  fhuil  4657;  ni  uil  ac  deib  nime  a 
thairmeasc  imam-sa  the  gods  oj 
heaven  cannot  prevent  me  2087;   na 


378 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


caraid-sea  uil  acum-sa  2322;  lp.  in 

rig  ac  buileam  231 ;  3  p.  cait  a  fhuil- 

id  4257;    co  hairm   a   fuilet  4560; 

na  fuilet  4857;    na  hairm-si  fuilet 

im  laim  3852;  co  findar  an  fuilid  na 

dei  fein  4228;  governs  aec. :  rafuil 

soni  ngrada  acum  2323. 
fuilled,  fo-linad  m.  filling  up,  addition, 

more.  Rothinoil  fuillead  sluag  4796. 
fuineacht  f.  blanching.    Re  fuineacht- 

aib  bais  3322.    Wi. 
fuined  m.  going  down,  setting,    Co  fui- 

nead  1168.   P.H. 
Fuir,  fiuir  f.  a  Fun/.    N.s.   in  Fhuir 

182;  in  fhiuir  3447. 
fuirech  delay,    dobersa  indnell  fuirig 

1739;  co  bar  fuirech  1780;  can  fui- 

reach  4668.    C.C. 
fuirechair  watchful.    Co  f.  3890;    co 

fuireochair  170;  co  fuireachair  3907, 

4688. 
fuirechrus  m.  close  attention.   Fuireo- 

chros  706.   Wi. 
fuirigim  /  delau,  tarry.    Ipv.  2s.  na 

fuirig  4349 ;  2  p.  fuirgid  4000 ;  ipf. 

subj.    3  s.   gu   na    fuirged    na    firu 

1784. 
fuirmed  m.  laying  low,  crushing,  cast. 

Cu  rasrain    7   cu   rasrailleastair  in 

fuirmed  sin  948;  tuc  fuirmed  2817, 

4008;  ana  n-oireadaib  firmora  fuir- 

mid  3990;  tuc  fuirmed  sleigi  4008; 

fuirmed  farain  3387 ;  ar  fuirmed  na 

flesci  fair  595.    C.C. 
fuirmim  I  place,  strike,  thrust.    Pret. 

3  s.  fuirmis  4496,  4524,  4527 ;  rofhui- 

rim   529;    rofuirmeastar  605;    v.n. 

fuirmed  q.v. 
fur  preparation.     Ac    fur    in    chatha 

1361,  1364.    C.C,  P.H. 
f-urail  enjoining.    Ac  f.  1878.    P.H. 
fur-áilim  I  enjoin.    Pres.  2  s.  furaile 

1823,  furailes  Eg. ;   ipf.  3  s.  rofur- 

ailead-sum  257;   pret.  3  s.  dofurail 

1048;  rofurail  1623;  v.n.  d'  furalam 

3897,  d'  furailem  Eg. ;  d'  furail  3902, 

furailem  Eg. 
fursannaim  I  enlighten,  blaze.    Pf.  p. 

(pres.  act.)  3  p.  rofursannait  3033. 
fursunmid,     for-od-ess-an-     lighting, 

illumination,  manifestation.    Re  fur- 

sunnud  464.    Fel.2 
furtacht  f.  help  1047,  1082,  1203, 1353, 

3803. 
fur-uagra      proclaimed,       renounced, 

scorned,  desperate,  furious.    TaDga- 

dar  a  mna  fegi  furuagra  1887,  Eg. 

furfhuagra;  g.s.  of  urfograd  Wi. 

gábad  danger.  Is  e  airchisses  each 
gabad2662;  do  gaibthibh  27.  Gába 
Wi. 


gabaim  (1)  /  take,  have.  Ipv.  2  s.  gab 
1030,  1114;  2  p.  gabaid  1112;  fut. 
1  s.  na  geb-sa  do  dera  I  will  not  hare 
tin/  tears  1028;  2  fut.  3  p.  co  na 
gebdais  airm  hi  3761,  2390;  ipf.  3  s. 
nach  gabad  egla  4719 ;  rogabad  3275 ; 
pret.  3  s.  rogob  1854;  cor-gab  1017; 
dogab  923;  ragabastair  970,  1254; 
ragabustar  927;  dogabastair  1013; 
3  p.  co  ragabsadar  1367;  rogobsad 
2013;  p.p.  rogabad  4907;  v.n.  f.  rigi 
dogobail  dat  brathair  1709. 

I  take  hold  of.  Rogob  ar  bun  inn 
f  hoilt  2452.  I  order,  entreat,  restrain. 
Rogab  lama  ar  P.  2474,  4156;  na  ga- 
bad luth  láma  dó  3740  (but  cf.  R.C. 
xxvi.  169) ;  coma  gabail  ar  lamhaibh 
3582.  I  apply.  Rogobad  ola  chom- 
shlemuin  da  churp  2560.  I  favour. 
Ac  gabail  re  T.  3172,  4251.  1  tackle. 
Risna  gabaid  gaisgedaig  arna  chrad 
ma  chuilenaib  4018.  I  assume.  Ro- 
gabsi  delb  fhir  do  Grecaib  fuirri  3449, 
619.  I  accept.  Nir-gabh-sam  arnh 
cuigi  sin  3796;  na  gebad  P.  uaithib 
4135. 

(2)  I  betake  myself  to,  begin.  Ro- 
gob gach  fer  dib  sin  ac  toga  2030, 
2040;  rogob  'ga  chacnam  3325;  ro- 
gob for  acallaim  na  nGrec  3407 ;  ro- 
gabastair  roime  248. 

(3)  I say,  sing.  Gabadhciasud4717. 
gabur,    gobur   f.    horse,    mare,    white 

mare.   G.s.  gobair  2278.   Aw. 
gach,  each  every.   Cach  duine  902,  6; 

gach  d.  903  ;  cach  lanradarcc  3989 ; 

ac  eadarguidi  cacha  uile  885;  gacha 

bliadna  490 ;  im  gach  ni  674. 
gach  re,  cach  ara,  cach  ala  every  other, 

every  alternate.    Cach  re  feacht  976 ; 

gach    re    mbliadna    217 ;    cach    re 

feacht... in  feacht  aili  1787;  cath  ar 

n-uair    in    turn   2093 ;     with   cach 

omitted,  ar  n-uair  4636. 
gáes  wisdom.   G.s.  do  chind  gaisi  1448 ; 

ag  sgrudad  g.  1173  ;  trena  ghais  32. 

Wi. 
gáeth  f.   wind.     Adracht  gseth  1961; 

cia  gaeth  229;  mar  bad  gasth  1852; 

ag  sugud  gaithi  aidhoir  2072,  2402; 

re   gaidsnim   na   gaithi    2811;    a.s. 

risin    ngaith    2011 ;     d.du.    o    dib 

gaethaib228;  n.p.  7  na  gsetha  2161. 
gáethach  windy.    Co  haitib  ragaethacha 

611. 
gáethlach  marsh.   Ri  geethlaigib  322; 

stagna  Theb.  1.  385.    C.C. 
gai,  gae  m.  spear.  7  gai  a  clemna  1819; 

7  gee  ina  laim  2085,  2696;  ag  buain 

an  gai  ind  1018;   delb  gae  C.  2263; 

tuc  urchur  da  ga  2896;    7  gse  gera 

guinecha  2665. 


379 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


gainem  sand.  A  langainem  2933;  re 
gainem  3514,  3535;  go  ganem  1967. 

gáir  f.  cry,  shout  1283;  doberar  in 
gair-sea  3472 ;  o  gair  ban  2155 ;  tuc- 
sad  gair  4123;  n.p.  rocuirid  gairi 
coseair  3470 ;  tugad  gairi  comaidrae 
4044;  adchualadarna  gairi  comaidmi 
4768;  tucsat  gairi  duba  4535,  4768; 
ac  eistecht  re  gairib  suba  3002. 
Wi. 

gairb-liath  rough  and  grey  869. 

gairb-threas,  v.  garb-. 

gáire  laughter.  Ac  genaib  gaeire  2552; 
ar  gairi  in  clearnnasa  3201 ;  faipbtis 
gen  gaire  3210,  4262,  4890. 

gáirechtach  laughing.  Na  briathra 
gotba  gairechtacha  2106.  Gairech- 
tach  bellowing,  Acall. 

gairim  I  call,  crow.  Ipv.  2  s.  gair  1671 ; 
ipf.  3  s.  ragaired  3965 ;  pret.  3  s. 
rogair  1366;  p.p.  ragairit  1742 ;  v.n. 
'cod  gairm  4363;   'ga  gairm  2077. 

gairit  short  time,  short  space.  Ua 
gairit  etorru  2448,  2689;  ba  gairit  a 
n-osad-sum  3509 ;  bu  gairid  1030 ; 
gairid  dochuadar  3941. 

gairiugud  m.  approaching  1706,  egair- 
ugudEg.    C.C. 

gairm  a  call.  Kaleig  gairm  4317;  ac 
gairm  3208;  acom  gairm  2927;  v.n. 
of  gairim. 

gairmim  /  call.  Pret.  3s.  gairmis  4880; 
rogairm  3238.    Denom.  of  gairm. 

gaisced  m.  (1)  armour.  (2)  valour, 
heroism.  Bandei  in  gaiscid  3171, 
3327;  ar  bande  an  gaisgid  4693; 
do  gresacht  a  gaiscid-sium  991,  430. 

gaisced -mer  valour-mad  2846. 

gaisgedach  (1)  heroic  997,  2883,  3333, 
4663;  an  tres  gaisgedach 4879.  (2)  m. 
hero  ar  gnuis  in  gaiscedaig  3190; 
n.p.  gaiscedaig  2659,  4018;  gaisge- 
daig  4481;  gnuisi  na  ngaisgedach 
4492 ;  i  nn-agaid  gaiscedach  Grec 
2716. 

gaisidech  hairy  (with  hair  of  beasts). 
Nathair  g.  495;  a  guairi  gairbliath 
g.  870;  broit  garba  gaasidecha  1528; 
nathracba  garba  gaisedacba  3333. 

gal  f .  valour,  combat.  Laicb  gaili  3385 ; 
trem  gnimradaib  goili  430 ;  ar  galaib 
oenfhir  in  single  combats  3330. 

galar  m.  disease,  grief.  Grendugud 
galair  768 ;  fa  galar  leo  1001 ;  ba 
galar  tromm  3669. 

gam-scedach  winter-clad,  winter  co- 
loured. Na  ciniuda  gamschedacha 
1718,  gaimscédach  Eg.  Sgeadach 
speckled,  sky-coloured  McB. 

gan,  v.  cen. 

garb  rough.    Is  garb  gne  do  ghnuisi 


3599 ;  a  fiacla  garba  905 ;  garb  grug- 
anach  1686 ;  broit  garba  1528 ;  gaetha 
garba  2161 ;  nathracha  garba  3333. 

ga.rha.im  I  roughen.  Bel.  is  e  Neptuin  gar- 
bas  in  muir  2667;  v.n.  ac  garbad 4541. 

garb-armach  rough-weaponed  3564. 

garb-chuar  rough  and  bent.  Bogha 
garbchuar  2497.    Cúar  crooked  Wi. 

garb-fbuar  rough  and  cold  306,  2811, 
2925. 

garb-gluair  rough  and  clear  3079, 
na  gaetha  garbha  glordha  the  rough- 
voiced  winds  Eg. 

garb-remur  rough  and  thick.  Bodi- 
braic  in  sleig  ngairbremair  3428. 

garb-snoidthe  roughly  snedded.  Angius 
ngarbbsnoighthe  3674.     V.  snaidim. 

garb-threas  fierce  battle.  Be  gairb- 
threas  4291. 

garb-trén  rough  and  strong  3051. 

gargaim  I  roughen.  Pret.  3  p.  rogarg- 
aigsead  3114. 

gart,  v.  gort. 

gart-glan  having  green  fields  249,  288,    J 
1089,  2190. 

gas-rad,  gasraid  f.  bachelry,  company 
of  striplings,  young  soldiers.  Bogres- 
istar  gasraid  1265;  do  thurus  gas- 
raide  1706,  2148 ;  d'airechtaib  gas- 
raidi  705,  876;  gnuisi  na  gasraidi 
949;  do  gasraidh  Grec  3651;  a.s. 
rogreis  gasraid  4203;  ar  gasraid  4904; 
a.p.  gasrada  4059,  4188;  v. p.  a  gas- 
rada  2179;  g.p.  apaigi  gasrad  nGrec 
3453;  fere  na  ngasraid  nGrec  3728, 
cf .  gnimraid  3750  ;  re  gasradaib  Grec 
2267 ;  ac  gasradaib  737 ;  ar  gasradaib 
2857.    C.C,  Gor.,  Tbc. 

gas-ta  fresh,  lively  1440,  2279,  4823. 
Tbc.  768. 

gataim  /  steal.  P. p. p.  a  ghradh  goiti 
30;  v.n.  is  a  ngoid  4714. 

gat-be  withe-breaking.  G.s.  as  adj. 
gatmi  2161. 

gathán  m.  ray,  beam.  Boergedar  ga- 
thana  glanailli  greni  1987  ;  roruitb- 
nig  a  gathana  2197. 

gat-sbnim  a  withe-twisting.  Be  gaid- 
snim  2810.    C.C. 

gat-shniniach  causing  icithe-twisting. 
Adracht  gaeth  gottshnimach  1961; 
na  gaetha  garba  gatnimacha  2161; 
gadnimacha  3079. 

ge  though.  Cer-ua  ferrdi  leis  3635; 
ge  rolinadh  3610;  gé  doronas  1058; 
ge  rrouai-sium  3745  ;  ger-ba  hadbal 
4438;  ge  dachfiaid-sium  1499;  ge 
ramarbad  mo  mac-sa  4198;  ge  ragell- 
sium  2041 ;  ge  rabui  2347 ;  ce  ra-bi 
2401;  ge  rachadladar  3001;  ge  do- 
chualaig  3359  Eg. ;  ge  rafitir  3480 ; 
ge  raeist  4400.    V.  ce. 


380 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


gee  f.  branch,  bough.   A. p.  a  ban-  7  a 

gega  3698. 
gellaim  I  promise.    Pret.  3  s.  dogeall 

1029;  rogell  3833,  684;  as  mo  nar- 

gell  686 ;  7  rogeall  di  3971 ;  rogeall 

4545  ;     1  p.    rogell samair-ni    1008  ; 

v.n.  eaidhi  in  gellad  3653. 
gem  a  gem.    Do  gemaib  2215.    Wi. 
gem-red  winter.  I  nn-amsirgairb  gem- 

ridh  1983,  2403. 
gemreta  wintry  273,  2162,  2446,  2811, 

306,  366.    Wi. 
gén  jeer,  scoff,  derision.    Kotib  a  gin 

ngairi  2623 ;  faiphtis  gen  gaire  3210 ; 

tibis  T.  gen  gain  4890,  4262;  ac  gen- 

aib  gffiire  2552. 
genar  /  am  born,  have  sprung.   2  s.  or- 

geinis  1114;  2  p.  or-geineadbair  861. 
genemain  birth.   Durson  damsa  genea- 

main  a  sad  birth  to  me  (?)  134 ;  is  e  sin 

tindrem  genemna  4808.    Wi. 
genmnaid  pure,  chaste.    Na  bingena 

genmnaidi  338,  504. 
genmnaidecht  f.  chastity.    I  comartha 

genninaideachta  744.    P.H. 
genmotha,  cenmotha  (1)  except:  prep. 

with  ace.    G.  da  ingin  namma  336. 

(2)  besides.  Genmotha  a  tamoin  3765. 
gentlige    heathen,    Gentile.    Na   i'aibli 

guacha  gendtligi  785;    iar  sithsen- 

chasa  gentligi  3971.    P.H. 
gér  sliarp,  keen  1888. 
gérait  gaiscid  m.  champion  of  valour. 

PI.  a  hgeraiti  gaiscid  2802.    Acall. 
gerán   m.    complaint.    Ni   aiscim   ort 

in  geran  dani  1359 ;  ac  geran  4456 ; 

rafhas  guba  7  geran  aco  4047;   ba 

lughaide  a  nguba  7  a  ngeran  3342; 

rabai  a  guba  7  a  geran  4579. 
geránach  querulous  772,  4313. 
gére  f.  sharpness,  keenness  484. 
gid  ed,  v.  ed. 
gilla  m.    lad,    boy.      Rodichendad    in 

gilla   sin    4093,   4388;    in   gille   sin 

3575;  inas  an  gilla  4164;  an  g.  sin 

928,  3203;  in  gilla  oc  1535;  ic  mol- 

ad  in  gilli  2491 ;  dar  agaid  in  gilla 

3388;    os  cind  an  gilla  4195;    don 

gilla  oc-sa  2547;  a  gilla  4165,  4349, 

4704,  2286;  a  gille  3794;  pogais  an 

gille   4703;    ar   in   ngilla  3240;    tri 

chet  do  gillib  1468. 
gÍTT3t,shortness.  In  ar  girra  419.  Giorra 

m.  TSh .  Compar.  ofgearrs/ior£,  p.  xvi. 
gius  a  fir-tree.     D.s.   do   giuis    1475; 

rothelc   an   gaiscedach   sin  an   gius 

3674.    Aur. 
glac  f.  cleft,  handgrasp.    Lan  a  glaici 

3637;  i'ladraib  glac  2810. 
gláed-ecair  having  layers  of  glue.    Do 

seitidaib    gorma     glaedecair    1280, 


gleoeccair  Eg.     Gleten  glue  O'Br., 

gleothán  glue  Din. 
gláeta  glued.  Do  sechedaib  glseta  2695. 

C.C. 
glan  bright,  pure.    Isin  glan  Greic  in 

Greece  proper  3645. 
glanaim  /  cleanse.    Pret.  3  s.  roglan 

3389,3595;  doglanustáir  1152;  3  p. 

o   raglansat   4733 ;    p.p.    3  p.  o   10- 

glanaidl268;  v.n. aganglanadh 3712. 
glan-álaind  bright  and  beautiful.    Do 

gregaib  glanailli  2348. 
glan-armach    having    bright    armour, 

bright-weaponed  1942. 
glan-grúadh  Jia  ving  bright  cheeks.  Ger- 

ua  glangruadh  3840. 
glan-mór  pure  and  great,  or  very  great 

333. 
glan-soillsigud  m.   a  bri<i1tt  shining. 

Do  g.  2045. 
glan-solus   clear  and   bright   413;    ri 

ruithnib  na  greini  glanshoillsi  1732 ; 

a  gathana  glanshoillsi  2197 ;  no  cor- 

eirgedar  ruithned  greine  glanshoillse 

3988. 
glas  grey,  green.   Cach  mag  reid  roglas 

4818. 
glasaim  I  turn  grey.    V.n.  ac  glasad 

fort  4541. 
glas-fhérach  green  and  grassy  2268. 
glas-fuar  grey  and  cold.  Re  sidi  nglas- 

fuar  ngaithi  2402. 
glas-ruad  grey-red,  silvery   red.     Go 

gainem  nglasruad  1967. 
glé-gel  clear  and  bright  724,  2371. 
glé-glan  clear  and  pure  338,  504. 
glé-mór-garb   very   great  and  rough. 

O  feargaib  glemorgarba  2768. 
glend  glen,  valley.    A.  glend  glasfhe- 

rach  2267 ;  a  nglind  897. 
glend-mer  deeply  daring,  rash   1942, 

gloinnmer   Eg.     Glenn    valley,    cf. 

glenn-suil  deep-set  eye  C.C. 
gleó  fight.   Ac  imchosnam  gliad  2802; 

don  gleó  sin  2875,  3051,  3170;    do 

gleó4456;  do  gliaid  2134;  can  gliaid 

4412;  roopairgleo  garb  3196;  rogarg- 

aigsead  a  ngliaid  3114;  tucsad  gluin 

re  gliaid  3426. 
glic  wise.    Compar.  ni  roibi  Gregda  ba 

glicca  inas  3932. 
gló-lethar  bright  leather.   G.s.  gloleth- 

air  2695.    C.C. 
glomar  ni uzzle.  Ba glomar a crais  2064; 

rofhosclastair  glomair  na  craes  602  ; 

beim  da  glomraib  52.    Glomhar  Wi., 

H.B.,  m.  Din.    Cf.  clomair. 
glond-mer  doing  reckless  deeds,  daring 

997,  2883,  3248;  gaisgedaig  gloind- 

mera   4482;    da    gaiscedach    glond- 

mera  3422. 


381 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


glonn-béimnech  a  loud  smiting.  Re 
glondbeimnig  872.    C.C. 

glór  m.  noise,  sound,  outcry,  speech. 
Ag  indisin  a  gloir  1157 ;  nocha  n-ar 
glor  1312;  can  anad  da  glór  4471; 
ac  saithin  a  medar  7  a  ngloir  3240 ; 
sirgloir  long-voiced  1337;  re  gloraib 
na  Brian  2332.   Aur.,  T.T.1  1772. 

glórach  noisy,  tempestuous  1961. 

glór-bresmaidm  a  noisy  crash  2808. 

glór-mer  mad-coked,  loud-voiced  3316. 

gluair  pure,  clear  274;  risna  stoccaib 
tendgluaire  1331 ;  na  gaetha  garb- 
gluairi  3079,  garbha  ghlordha  Eg. 

gluaisim  /  more.  Ipf.  3  s.  rogluaiseth- 
si  2069;  feib  co  ngluaised  4267; 
2fut.  3 p.  co  ngluaisfidis  276;  v.n. 
can  gluasacht  4268. 

glun  knee.  Tucsad  gluin  re  gliaid  3425; 
co  rothuitset  ara  ngluinib  2534;  da 
gluinib3625;  da  ngluinib  401.  Tuc- 
sat  glun  re  gail  7  re  gaisced  Acall. 
3149  n. 

gnáth-amus  rn.  usual  soldier.  A  gnath- 
amais  comaidecbta  his  bodyguard 
4366. 

gné  form,  fashion,  kind.  Is  garb  gne 
do  ghnuisi  3599. 

gnim  m.  deed,  act.  Ba  trom  in  gnim 
sin  2784,  4833;  re  baduatb  in  gnima 
sin  3345;  do  digail  an  gnima  sin 
3561 ;  ac  aicsin  in  gnima  sin  2538, 
2790,  3903,  4450;  don  gnim  sin 
3339;  is  tresin  ngnim  sin  4143;  is 
cruaid  na  gnima  1823 ;  risna  gnim- 
aib  sin  4202. 

gnim-rad  f.  coll.  deeds.  Acmeasnugud 
gnimraid  in  gille  oig  sin  3750  ;  cuirn- 
niugud  gnimrad  an  gille  sin  4285; 
trem  gnimradaib  430 ;  gnimrada 
gaiscedacba  d'  indisin  2986 ;  for  the 
case  of  gnimraid  3750,  cf.  gasraid 
3728. 

gnuis  f.  face,  countenance.  Caidi  in 
gnuis  glan  2105;  do  gnuis  glan 
4540;  dar  tulport  a  gnuisi  2528;  is 
garb  gne  do  gnuisi  3599 ;  rocromastar 
a  gnuis  1777;  ar  gnuis  3190;  roban- 
aid  gnuisi  2826 ;  rathuitseadar 
gnuisi  949 ;  gnuisi  gruadsoillsi 
2016. 

gnuis-garb  rough-faced  495. 

goba  m.  smith.  Gaba  758;  do  gaibnib 
4442. 

goinideach  wounding,  tearing  like  a 
spear.  Fiacla  goinideacha  905,  gót- 
nedacba  Eg.  Gothnat  small  missile 
spear,  The.  364. 

gol  weeping.  O  gul  2155;  do  gul  517; 
ag  gul  1925. 

gol-gaire    f.    loud    weeping,    ivailmg. 


Rolinastar  do  gul  7  do  golgaire  517 ; 

co  cualadar  Greic  uili  golgairi  na 

bingine2078;  ag  golgairi  1926. 
gonaim  I  wound.    Pres.  3  s.  anti  rom- 

gonaid    3798  ;    ipf.    subj.    3  s.    gu 

ngonad-som  1415 ;    pret.  3  s.  rogon 

3118,  3190;  p.p.  0  ragonad  int  eacb 

4503;    rogonadb   ecb    3549;    p.p.p. 

gonta  4689. 
Gorgon,  Gorgain  f.   Gorgon.    N.s.  an 

Gorgan  1207;  Gorgain  Í200;  docbum 

na  Gorgaine  1203 ;  natbracha  garba 

gaisedacba  na  Gorgoni  3333;  risin 

Gorgain  1200. 
gorm  blue.   Do  seitidaib  gorma  1280. 
gorm-glas  blue-grey.    .i.  gabair  gonn- 

glasa  2279. 
gort  green  field,  standing  corn.    O  gort- 

aib   4335,    gartaib   Eg. ;    i    ngartaib 

Grec  3496. 
gortacb  hungry  1888. 
grád  m.  love.    Do  grad-sa  1072;  intan 

tucais  in  gradb  ndermair  1049;   ar 

grad 2859;  coralingradacbatha  1178. 
grád  grade,  order,  rank.    Fer  grada  a 

hathar  2651. 
graifne  horse-race.    Tucsat  tri  graifni 

2252.    Acall. 
grain   horror,   loathing.     Co  ngebtais 

grain  7  ecla  2390,  2945;  ré  méd  a 

graine  an  Gregda  sin  4216. 
gráinim  I  cause  loathing,  sjrread  horror. 

Eograin     1367.       Turmale     fremit 

Theb.  iv.  10. 
gránda  ugly,  grim, odious,  hideous  772, 

4263,  4313;  langranda  871;  rogranda 

902. 
Grec  f.   Greece.    Um  airdebendus  na 

Greigi  uili  834,  1100,  1179;   annsa 

Greic  bic  317. 
Grec   Greek,   a   Greek.    N.p.   a  cride- 

daib  na  nGreg  1137;  v. p.  a  Gregu 

1134. 
Grecda  Greek.    Gregda  4917. 
gredc-n    noise,    clamour,    lamentation. 

Coma    samalta   gredon    2807;    can 

anad  da  glor  7  da  gredan  4471 ;  rouai 

dono  gredban  7  gubai  3868.    Acall. 
grega  herds  of  horses,  studs.   Eoleigit 

leosum  grega  diana  2275 ;  do  gregaib 

glanailli  2348.    Tbc. 
grennaigim  /  beard,  challenge,  defy. 

Pret.  3  s.  grendaigis  4880;  v.n.  coma 

grendugud    768 ;    mo   grendugud-sa 

4885;    tar  in  g.  4409;    'cod   gren- 

nacbad  4363;  aga  grennugud  3578; 

7  seisium  agad  grennubadh-sa  4376. 

C.C.,  TSh. 
grés  n.  embroidery,  work  p.  xvi. 
gresim  I  urge :  with  for,  mar.    Pres. 

3  s.  ca  dasacbt  rod-gresand  4391 ;  fut. 


382 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


2  s.  cia  dib  gresfi  4322 ;  2  fut.  3  s.  ni 
hed  rom-greisfed  4176 ;  ipf .  3  s.  ni 
greised  nech  dib  sin  a  eocho  2299, 
2362,  2405;  pret.  3  s.  is  tren  gresis 
3756 ;  greisis  4505,  4843 ;  rogreseas- 
tair  1083 ;  rogresistar  1263 ;  rogreses- 
tar  1535,  1539,  2078,  2379;  ragreie 
4418,  4464 ;  rogreis  3802, 4202, 4351 ; 
rogres  2321,  3025,  3348;  nir-grois 
2351 ;  cor-gres  3222 ;  is  trengresis 
3756 ;  3  p.  rogreiseadar  4480 ;  do- 
gresedar  4476;  v.n.  f.  do  gresaeht 
991,  2286,  3810;  re  gresaeht  2343, 
4847 ;  in  g.  3225,  4263 ;  ag  gresaeht 
a  muntire  2040;  lasin  g.  sin  2603; 
agag.  3578;  ata  'com-gresaeht  4382. 

grian  m.  gravel.  Ee  grian  7  re  gainem 
3514,  3535;  co  grian  7  go  ganem 
1967. 

grian  f.  sun.  Bathain  in  grian  dath- 
glan  1166;  roerig  grian  2195;  re 
turggabail  na  greine  1210 ;  re  tinchur 
na  greni  1426;  gathana  greni  1987. 

grianán  soller,  bower.  Asin  grianan 
413 ;  co  griananaib  40. 

grian-brug  (1)  elysian fields  from  grian 
f.  sun  2959.  (2)  gravelly  abodes  from 
grian  m.  gravel.  In  ngrianbrogaib 
iffrind  192.    Mn.,  C.C. 

grib-glan  having  bright  fingers  730. 
Grib  finger  Gor.  July  13 ;  gribh 
finger  O'E. 

grinri  accurate,  fine,  comely  p.  xvi. 

grúad  cheek.  Co  raloise  a  chathbarr  7 
ghruad  an  righ  4359;  dar  gruadaib 
2326. 

grúad-álaind  having  beautiful  cheeks 
2105,  4541. 

gruad-corcur  having  crimson  cheeks 
724 ;  gruadchorcra  730. 

gruad-glan  having  bright  cheeks.  A 
bandtracht  gruadglan  4653. 

grúad-solus  having  bright  checks  718, 
1441,  2016,  2379,  3414,  3645,  4887. 

grucánach  wrinkled  1686.   WL,  Mn. 

gúach  false,  lying.  Na  faibli  guacha 
785. " 

guaire  bristle.  Co  n-eirged  a  guairi 
869 ;  p.  xv.    O'E. 

gúala  f.  shoulder.  7  a  gualu  risin 
seolcrand  1946 ;  'ga  gualaind  de 
3440 ;  uasa  g.  943 ;  osa  gualaind 
2392,  3319;  on  gualaind  3107. 

gúaland-tiug  having  thick  shoulders 
2279,  2371. 

guba  m.  f.  weeping,  wailing.  Eafhas 
guba  7  geran  aco  4047 ;  ba  lughaide 
a  iiguba  3342 ;  fochond  in  guba  2081 ; 
ac  guba  truim  toirrsig  4572 ;  rabai  a 
guba  7  a  geran  4579,  a  gubu  Eg. ; 
rouai  dono  gredhan  7  gubai  adhual 
3868.   Metr.  782. 


guidim  /  pray.  Pres.  1  s.  guidim-si 
tu.su  fon  mac  sin  3706. 

guin  f.  wound.  Ar  tabairt  na  gona 
digla  4551 ;  o  tharraid  bsegul  gona 
3099;  do  guin  do  G.  4177 ;  don  goin 
sin  4011;  do  goin  4894;  co  ter- 
nobad  don  guin  sin  3306;  ni  thug 
nech  dib  goin  4477 ;  rothocaib  a 
chrechta  7  a  ilgona  2766,  2769 ;  ni 
riachtadar  gona  aigbeili  4519;  ro- 
thoitsed  do  gonaib  2880,  3112.   Wi. 

guinech  wounding,  piercing  64,  2665. 

guin-galand  wound  of  an  enemy,  enemy 
mutilation,  sympathetic  magic,  wound- 
ing a  clay  figure  representing  a  person. 
Dorindset  g.  de  amal  nobeith  beo 
3476.  Cf.  galann  enemy  O'Br. ;  Tbc. 
p.  635,  6;  R.C.  xvi.  306.  For  the 
mattercf.  corpcreadha  body  of  clay  :- 
J.  G.  Campbell's  Witchcraft  and 
Second  Sight,  p.  46.  The  same  word 
corrupted  in  the  gloss  .i.  a  sarugud 
no  andiaghalgumande  Thes.  Pal.  11. 
349,  42.  The  practice  still  survives 
in  parts  of  the  Highlands. 

gur.    Ar  gur  =  iar  n-cur  1036. 

gns  aniu  till  to-day  4531. 

gus-mar  strong,  powerful  737. 

guth  m.  voice.  O  guth'mor  2232,  3579, 
4881 ;  a  guth  do  cloistecht  di  2375 ; 
adchualamar  guth  oenduni  1945; 
fogur  bras  a  gotha  2011;  0  soine 
gotha  moir  4185  ;  re  guth  na  baidbi 
3451 ;  tre  gothaib  1213  ;  0  gothaib 
moraib  2368. 

guth-gáirechtach  having  a  laughing 
voice.  Nabriathra  gothagairechtacha 
2106.    Gáirechtach  bellowing,  Acall. 

i  (1)  with  art.  Cá  leth  rachas  anti  bus 
coscrach  4392 ;  rofseth  ante  fogres 
comland  fort  4369 ;  co  romarbar 
anti  rom-gonaid  3797;  is  ag  anti 
beres  coscur  4424 ;  7  ante  na  tabrad 
160 ;  digail  ar  anti  romarb  a  mhuinn- 
tir  60;  ar  inti  dos-tuc  3490;  denaid 
ini  rastangabair  4729;  ar  inti  ros- 
marbfedh  3833;  ani  rustangadar 
4746 ;  o  'tchondairc  A.  anni  sin 
2391,  2540;  co  tarla  inni  Polistas 
3430;  n.p.  aireom  ina  tanic  2701; 
a. p.  o  'tchualaig  innihi  sin  497. 

(2)  with  si».  A  echta  in  airseda 
i-sin3152;  in  mac  bee  i-sin  2060;  is 
e  in  D.  i-sin  2301;  in  marcach  i-sin 
2357. 

i  n-  in,  into:  prep,  with  dat.  and  ace. 
A  coindi  na  curad  932;  a  nim  7  a 
talmain  1074 ;  i  nn-aimsir  gairb 
2403;  i  Ho  na  a  n-aidchi  2719;  i 
rricht  feola  1861;  a  nArgo  1224; 
isin  maidin  1210;  isan  oidchi  1459; 


383 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


isin  n-uair  bic  sin  4475  ;  isan  uair  sin 
3369 ;  isna  olcaib  for  the  evils  577 ; 
4489  ;  isna  srothaibl071 ;  acendcach 
duine  906 ;  with  poss.  pro. :  1  s.  im 
laim  1780,  2924;  am  laim  4543; 
am  chlaidim  1309;  2  s.  ad  ingnais 
4781;  ad  chomdail-si  1050;  ad  t' 
fhiadnaisi-siu  4604;  ad  chind  4540; 
ad  bethaid  1030;  id  cendsu  632;  at 
egmais  854;  ad  t'  arrad  857;  id 
richt  2851;  ad  rigshuidhi  4368;  is 
iniud  3673;  3s.m.  ana  sduaig4546; 
ana  menmain  888;  ina  eliab  1011; 
ina  criaid  4817;  ann,  f.  innti  4671; 
is  innti-sidhi  899;  innti  1025,  3558; 
inti  1430,  2155;  indti  2850,  4598; 
3  s.  f.  ana  tech  leptha  4200;  3  p.  in- 
tib  2017.  into :  i  tempull  742 ;  with  art. 
isin  ehath  856;  isin  mbaile  2783; 
asin  sliab  n-alaind  n-olachranda  sin 
1209;  ralaigeastair  isin  carraig  1215; 
isin  sliab  1256;  a  teach  1258 ;  an-ifirn 
2929;  isin  cathraig-si  4609.  as  :  tanac- 
sa  im  baidb  buaidertha  1899;  in  bar 
lamaib  2481;  in  gach  inad  2634. 

iachtaim  /  yell,  shout.  Pret.  3s.  roiacht 
2077,  4195 ;  iachtais  4407 ;  v.n.  iach- 
tad  4073 ;  tucad  iachtad  2615. 
Wi. 

iadaim  I  close,  gather :  followed  by  im. 
Ipf .  3  p.  ima  n-iaditis  1554 ;  pret. 
3  s.  roiad  2561;  co  raiad  1168;  3  p. 
no  gor-iadsad  a  munter  lama  tairis 
3392;  cor-iadsad  2172,  4077;  roiad- 
sad  1436,  2132,  3476;  roiadsat  2903, 
3043,  4077;  cor-iadsad  4088;  roiad- 
sadar  1150;  raiadsadair  1311;  p.p. 
re  teindesnaigi  rohiadad  an  baili 
4090;  v.n.  da  iadad  4079. 

íall  f .  thong.   Co  n-iallaib  rofhada  2504. 

iar,  iar  n-  after:  prep,  with  dat.  Ar 
n-ichtur...ar  n-uachtar  3069  ;  iar  sin 
1183,  4301 ;  ar  n-ais  1545;  ar  letrad 
a  haigthi  1855 ;  ar  lasad  2256 ;  ar 
ndenom  edport  2115;  ar  n-ergi  do 
A.  2570 ;  ar  ngabail  a  longpbuirt 
2739;  with  poss.  pro.  3  s.  m.  arna 
cnesugud  1403 ;  iarna  marbad  4809  ; 
arna  rada  don  airdrig  ris  2080;  ar 
na  marbad  3860,  1,  2,  3. 

iarand  iron.  Bera  iaraind  538;  muir 
iaraind  848;  mias  adbulmor  iaraind 
2470;  tuc  A.  luirig  n-imthruim  n- 
iaraind  2571. 

iardaige  the  last  of  a  family  O'D.  Ba 
hiardaigi  ammathar  4492. 

iardraige  last  of  family,  result  4492  Eg. 
Iardraighi  in  catha  moir  The.  5491. 

iarfaigim  /  ask.  Ipf.  roharfaigead  158, 
903  ;  pret.  1  s.  d'  fiarfaigus  121 ;  3  s. 
iarfaiges  113;  fiarfaigis  4778 ;  rofiar- 
faid  3698  ;  roiarfaig   545 ;    roiarfaid 


1820;  dofhiarfaig  920;  t-pret.  3  s. 
rof hiarfacht  4757 ;  rafiarfacht  1248 ; 
v.n.  iarfaigid  123  ;  robai  aca  iarfaide 
1901 ;   'ga  fhiarfaigi  de  2652. 

iarmairt  result,  issue,  consequence  of 
an  affair.  G.s.  deoch  iarmarta  1802. 

iarnaide  (1)  made  of  iron.  I  sboraib 
iarnaidi  4480  ;  o  sporaib  iarnaide 
2368 ;  risin  coill  iarnaidi  1516 ;  bera 
aithgera  iarnaidi  3086 ;  (2)  irons, 
iron  parts.    N.p.  a  n-iarrnaigi  1277. 

iarraid  seeking,  asking.  D'  iarraid  a 
firindi  1213,  uisqui  1758,  fortachta 
3328,  in  armaigi  3986,  airm  na  rail- 
ed 4568,  furtachta  4766;  bai  ac  iar- 
raid a  brathar  641 ;  ag  iarraid  chuirp 
ag  iarraid  a  tigerna  4024 ;  ag  iarraid  a 
n-itchi  4767 ;  ag  i.  anacail  1024 ;  a  iar- 
raid daib  seig  1186 ;  'ca  n-iarraid 
3987. 

iarraim  I  seek,  ask.  Ipf.  subj.  2  s.  cid 
ma  n-iarrthai  ormsa  1700. 

iarthar  the  West.  Iar  n-iarthur  205, 
1394 ;  ar  n-iarthur  2605. 

iar-toin  afterwards  798,3074;  iartain 
1511,  1031,  1371,  1385,  1511,  1865; 
artoin  740. 

ibim  I  drink.  Ipf.  3  s.  asa  n-ibead 
2410;  v.n.  ac  ibi  1800. 

ibraide,  made  or  formed  of  yew,  yew. 
Saigid  a  tidbaic  ibraide  2582. 

ichtar  m.  the  lowest  part,  bottom.  G.s. 
ichtair  1876,  3535;  ichtir  1659;  asa 
hichtur  1980,  4106  ;  a  hichtar  ifirn 
4314;  i  nn-ichtur  2363,  3519,  3542; 
co  hichtur  2943;  ar  n-ichtar  1967. 
Wi. 

idbraim,  aith-od-berim  I  offer,  sacrifice. 
Pres.  3  p.  (p.p.)  rohidbraid  alma 
2254 ;  ipv.  2  s.  ibair  3852  ;  f ut.  1  s. 
idberad-sa  4499 ;  2  fut.  3  s.  co  n- 
idberad  3972;  pret.  Is.  roidhbrais 
3706;  p.  fut.  3  s.  idhbertar  tu  3684; 

2  fut.  3  s.  comad  hé  a  mac  fein  no- 
hidbortha  4152  ;  p.  2  fut.  3  s.  comad 
hé  a  mac  fein  nohidbortha  4152 ;  fut. 

3  s.  idhbertar  tu  3684  ;  v.n.  f.  idbart, 
idbairt:  dered  idbarta  457,  1209, 
1256;  do  teinid  na  hidbarta  2237, 
2245,  4358;  ar  t'  edparid  4168;  d' 
idbairt  4147;  altoir  idbarta  4140, 
4762  ;  n.p.  idbarta  1370,  2591,  3693; 
toirmisc  na  hidbarta  4361;  fere  id- 
bartaib  1187;  ic  idbartaib  da  ndeib 
2992;  tresna  hidbartaib  1371,  1634; 
ar  ndenom  edport  2115. 

idna  weapons  751.    C.C.,  The. 
idnaicim,  ind-anagim  I  convey,  restore. 

V.n.  ni  m'  idnocol  3310. 
iffern  m.  hell,  hades.   G.s.  ichtair  ifirn 

1876,  3019,  4314;  doirrsi  ifirn  4891 ; 

doirseoir  ifrin  604;  dar  dorus  ifrin 


384 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


607;  gaba  ifrin  758;  do  chur  a  n- 
ifren  581;  a  hifren  1635;  a  hifim 
4458;  i  n-ifirn  2945.    P.H. 

iffernaide  infernal.  Tanic  in  fhiuir 
irirnaidi  3447;  na  ndei  n-ifrennaidi 
1644,  7,  581,  151;  isna  srothaib  ad- 
fuaraib  ifernda  1072 ;  ag  na  Parcbip 
iferndaigi  1319. 

igmaiglb  images  1485;  d.p.  of  imagin. 
Imagni  C.C. 

il  many.   N.p.  ger-ba  ili  a  n-echta  3252. 

il-  many,  much.  Illatbacb  2340,  ilda- 
thacha  Eg.;  na  bilmilid  3259;  na 
hilbuidni airrdrici  1444.   S.G.  ileach. 

ilach  a  shout.  Tugad  leosam  ilacba 
4044. 

ilarda,  ilarde  manifold,  various.  Ig 
imraitib  ilearda  4131 ;  imraiti  imda 
ilerda  650. 

il-brec  much  variegated.  Inar  orsnaith 
ilbrec  3735  ;  dar  dorus  n-ilbrec  3034 ; 
na  hilbrecca  na  moigi  2340;  sillead 
for  an  sciath  n-ilbrec  n-exarnail  sin 
4829. 

il-brechtach  much  variegated.  Sciath 
oirderc  ilbreachtach  3576. 

il-chrothach  of  many  charms,  beautiful 
2621,  2645/3647,  4252,  4401,  4647, 
4691,  690,  1762. 

il-écairthi,  v.  écraim. 

il-echt  many  a  fell  deed.  Eofhopair  E. 
are  7  ilechta  2856. 

il-écor,  il-éag'ar  of  many  rows  or  layers. 
Euithean  na  catbbarr  n-orda  n-ilea- 
gair  917 ;  delba  ileccair  1462,  1550 ; 
arna  n-ilecur  do  snath  alaind  2214, 
2418 ;  arna  ilecar  do  lecaib  loghmora 
3737. 

il-fáebarm.  many  an  edge,  many-edged 
weapon.  N.p.  a  n-airm  7  a  n-ilfha?- 
bair  4114,  747,  (sic  corr.)  853;  g.p. 
na  n-fbilfaebar  399. 

ille  lather.    Mo  thoideacht-sa  ille  2957. 

il-tuatha  many  peoples.  Ba  hilltuath- 
aib  3358. 

im,  imb.  um  about,  around:  prep,  with 
ace.  (but  often  dat.  pi.) :  aspirates. 
Um  thachur  1142;  um  soillsiugud 
4697 ;  um  airdchendus  834 ;  um 
fhoirithin4772;  'man  teachtairi  889; 
umon  flaithus  1105 ;  'ma  roibi  4824 ; 
'mon  airdrig  3912 ;  inian  ngnim 
2423;  with  pronominal  elements: 
2  s.  umait-siu  1064;  umat  1115;  3  s. 
imi  1865,  3305,  3467;  uime  832, 
982,  1150,  4440;  ime  1414,  3327; 
imini  3204;  imi  sin  4890;  umma 
4344;  uma  4772;  3  s.f.  impi-si  1892, 
2100,  2172;  3  p.  umpu  739,  1528, 
4462;  impu  sin  3218;  with  posses- 
sive pro. :    1  s.   'mam  chend  2928 ; 


2  s.  'mat  fortacht  3757 ;  3  s.  m.  uma 
chend  971 ;  cid  ima  roiue  3551 ;  'ma 
cuairt986;  3  s.  f.  ima  bragaid  1893; 
ima  lamaib  2504  ;  imma  ceand  1489, 
(sic  corr.)  3333  ;  3  p.  'ma  Tiabandaib 
4619;  'má  cendaib  1209;  cid  'ma 
cidii?  1249;  créd  'ma  tucsabair  1316; 
rothairmisc  in  seel  sin  fa  P.  2767; 
ima  a  athair  4175 ;  créd  mar  ( =  im- 
ro)-leigis  1058. 

imacallaim  f.  address,  conversation. 
G.s.  athais  n-imagallma  1032;  im- 
acallma  379. 

imad,  imbed  multitude,  plenty.  Imad 
ar  lam  1007;  re  himad  na  sseigid 
3286,  460 ;  re  himud  3085 ;  re  himut 
3867;  a  n-imad  979;  ar  imad  arm 
n-examla  4109;  gan  immad  cloindi 
336;  co  n-imad  crecht  1403;  do- 
these  iumad  an  feola  1155. 

im-ar-chuirim    I  carry   about.     Pret. 

2  s.  raimarchrais  3147;  p.p.  3  p.  ni 
rohimirchuirit  1472;  v.n.  o  nar-et  a 
imarchur  3543 ;  re  himurchur  n-airm 
1380;  d'  imarchur  1034,  1755;  ac 
i.  1727,  1321;  aca  i.  2119;  'ga  n- 
imarcur  2354. 

imarcraid,  iomarcrait  superiority, 
great  excess,  superfluity  4012,  833. 
Imm-forcraid  C.C. 

im-bel  border,  brink,  bank.  Co  himlib 
srotha  4732;  o  imblib  srotha  1442. 

im-berim  I  ply,  practise.  Ipv.  2  s.  imir 
bas  oram  4396 ;  pret.  3  s.  roimir  coma 
chlaidib  3266;  roimir  imned  2549; 
roimir  cles  carpait  furru  2907 ;  ara 
rimir  a  hairmerta  769 ;  roimir  each 
bar  a  cheli  dib  3246;  roimir  in  gille 
sin  a  gnim  caiscid  3812;  v.n.  f.  ag 
imirt  985;  do  imirt  ar  in  gilla  oc 
3214;  do  imirt  ormsa  3643. 

im-búalad  m.  mutual  smiting,  striking 
at  close  quarters.  Ee  scis  a  n-im- 
buailti  2534;  re  himbualad  302, 
2937. 

imchained  m.  great  or  mutual  railing 
or  complaint.  G.s.  imchainti  1032. 
C. 

im-chomraicim  I  meet,  encounter.  Pret. 

3  s.  imaeomraic  4019. 
im-chosnum   mutual  striving  213,  5; 

ic  imchosnum  thosaich  2339,  2400. 

im-chumang  very  narrow,  confined  736. 

im-churim  I  carry.  V.n.  a  n-imochur 
na  miled  1756. 

im-com-búalad  m.  mutual  smiting  to- 
gether or  at  close  quarters.  Ac  i. 
3074. 

imda  f.  bed,  couch.  Ee  dergud  imdad 
462 ;  a  himdaid  Ioif  4691 ;  asa  im- 
daid  641 ;  da  n-imdadaib  647. 


385 


25 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


imda  many,  numerous,  frequent  154, 
1462,  1885,  4518;  airm  ecsanila 
imda  3281;  idbarta  uaisli  imdai  2183; 
ger-ua  imda  derbairdeda  2719,  3419 ; 
co  ndelbaibh  imdbaibh  hecsamlaib 
3577. 
im-degal,  imdegail  f.  defending,  guard- 
ing. T' imdegail  2919;  ina  imdegail 
7  didin  4522.  C.C. 
im-deglaim  I  defend  myself.   Pret.  3  s. 

roimdeagail  2532. 
imdergad  m.  reddening,  shaming.    Ant 
imdergad-sa  1055  ;  tucastar  athais  7 
imdercad  1580.    Laws. 
im-ditiu  m.  self-defence.   Re  febhus  in 

imditin  4478. 
im-domain  depth,  depths  201.    TSh. 
im-dorcha  very  dark  267. 
im-eclach  very  frightened  640. 
imel,  im-bel  border.    Co  bimlib  3506. 

V.  immel-bord. 
imellach  boundary.    Bodianscaileadar 

mur  n-imeallacb  4097.    Tbc.  1314. 
im-formad  mutual  jealousy  210. 
im-fula(i)ng   (1)   intolerable  212.     (2) 

supporting  465. 
im-gabaim  I  avoid.    Pret.  3  s.  roim- 
gaib  3181;  roimgaibb  3788;  v.n.  f. 
ar  imgabail  do  bratbar  4376 ;  d'  im- 
gabail  uilc  1789,  4529;  ar  imgabail 
2899,  3270,  4279,  4529;  re  bathlaime 
a  n-inggabala  4478. 
im-guin  mutual  wounding,  strife,  con- 
flict.  Ee   bimguin  302;    ac  imguin 
leo   3171;    a  fornirt   imgona   3443. 
Wi. 
im-lán,    im-shlán    whole,     complete, 

scatheless  1005,  1244,  2788,  3795. 
im-liu,  imb-liu  navel.    Eter  a  ucbt  7 

a  imlinn  927. 
im-luad   m.  agitating,  handling.    Re 
bimluad  460;  d'  imluad  1538, 1546; 
co  na  fedad  i.  3277.   P.H. 
im-lúaidim  I  agitate,  hasten,  drive  on, 
force,  impel,  perform.    Pret.  3  s.  im- 
luaidis  (sic  corr.)  1314;   3  s.  roim- 
luaid   4177,  347,   1449,   3175;    3  p. 
imluaidsed    1816 ;    roimluaidseadar 
655.    P.H. 
imlúaimnech^/uííí'ri'/íí;  about,  hovering 
on  the  wing.   D'  etbaidib  imluaim- 
necba  4638,  3411 ;  co  bi.  3591. 
im-lúath  very  sivift.    Soigde  imluatba 

4111. 
immar,  imar  as,  whilst.  Immar  da- 
badbar-som  ac  in  comrad  sin  3235 ; 
imar  tbainig  si  andsin  4404 ;  imar  ro- 
bai  or  do-bai-sium  ana  sduaig  4546. 
immel-bord  m.  border,  edge,  bank.  Is- 
in  n-immelbordaib  186 ;  secb  imell- 
bord  talman  2196. 


immorro  however,  moreover  847,  1099. 

An  extension  of  v,  L.  vero. 
im-naiscim  mutually  join,  unite,  join 
battle.  Ba  be  dlus  robimnaiseid3068. 
Cf.  Wi. 

im-n-astad,  inf.  of  im-astaim  I  hold 
in,  check.  V.n.  aca  n-im-n-astad 
2333,  wbere  tbe  n  represents  b  imb- 
astad. 

imned  m.  suffering,  tribulation  492; 
int  imned  529 ;  re  bimnead  367 ;  mor 
d'  imnedb  29;  roimir  imned  2549; 
ac  fulang  inmid  3516,  imsnidb  Eg. 
P.H. 

imnedach  woeful,  lethal  605,  758,  961, 
2927 ;  imnidacb  599. 

impide  intercession.  Is  tre  impidi  na 
bandei  sin  3970. 

impóim ,  imb-  shóim  1 1  urn  myself  about. 
Pres.  3  s.  imaste  2867,  3147,  3206, 
3519;  imasai  4203;  'masoe  3219; 
pret.  3  s.  impais  4882 ;  roimpo  4533 ; 
doimpo  4017;  roimpó  4474,  2385, 
3185,  2583;  roimpa  3334;  cein  no 
cor-impa  2361 ;  3  p.  roimpotar  2975, 
3505,  4866;  roimpadar  3973 ;  roim- 
patar  750;  roimpaised  2382;  v.n.  m. 
impód  :   7  a  himpod  imacuairt  2471. 

im-rád  m.  account,  tale.  'Ca  imradb 
1184  ;  0  'tcbualadar  imrad  2170. 

im-rádud  m.  meditating,  thought,  re- 
flection. Dobadar  ae  imradad  uilc 
885;  tangatar  imraiti  236;  rouadar 
imraiti  649 ;  ig  imraitib  ilearda  4131 ; 
ar  na  bimraitib  sin  3243,  4199, 
4385. 

im-ram  rowing.  Ee  ssetbar  ind  imrama 
1948,  2016;  da  n-imrud  1944,  im- 
rum  Eg. ;  ac  frasimram  2003. 

imresain,  imb-resan  f.  strife,  quarrel. 
Co  tarla  imresain  1626. 

im-roll  miss,  error.  Ni  hurcbur  n-im- 
roill  3769;  urcbur  n-imruille  3760; 
do  na  tabair  urcbur  d'  imroll  2697. 

imscing  a  couch.  D'  imscingib  462. 
P.H. 

im-scith  very  tired  2704. 

im-slmim  care,  anxiety.  Ba  adbul  a 
imsbnim  3003 ;  imsnim  a  mac  sam- 
la  sin  3622 ;  dobi  imsbnim  mor  2595 ; 
ua  bimsnim  726 ;  a  n-imsbnim  1598, 
3229;  ré  bimsnim  1342;  gan  im- 
snim air  3466  ;  n.  p.  sirimsbnima 
2988.    Laws. 

imsnimach  anxious,  careful  1184,  3228, 
4910. 

im-thairring  mutual  dragging.  Ac  i. 
213. 

im-thigim  I  go  about,  proceed,  depart. 
Ipv.  2s.  imigb  3780;  imtig-siu  4324; 
imtbigb-si  3844;  ipf.  3  s.  na-imtiged- 


386 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


som  310;  3  p.  na-imtigdis  1817;  pf. 
3  s.  raimig  1244;  reuniting  1918, 
2793 ;  3  p.  roimtigsed  4613 ;  v.n.  f . 
denam  imtecht  3967 ;  ré  himtheacht 
4050;  ac  imthecht  169,  1915,  4615; 
tre  alius  a  iratheachta  1094,  302, 
2910,  3277 ;  deanaid  imthecht  2792 ; 
conad  ni  da  n-imtheachtaib  4922. 

im-thnúth  much  or  Mutual  jealousy '222. 

im-throm  very  heavy.  Tuc  A.  luirig  n- 
imthruim  2571. 

im-thús  (1)  fate,  wandering.  N.p. 
imthusa  1714. 

(2)  im-thusa  regarding,  with  refer- 
ence to:  with  gen.  1046^  1591,  1931, 
3725,  4096,  4354,  4574,  4612,  4754, 
4831,  4917. 

in  the  definite  article:  mas.  n.s.  in 
sacart  2136;  int  ardrig  2134,  2283; 
in  ri  2156;  an  ri  1238;  ant  airdrig 
4463 ;  an  fuirmed  948 ;  ant  senduine 
1005;  g.s.  athairan  oireachais  1140; 
egcosc  inn  eich  sin  2278;  dei  inn 
fhina  2613;  ar  larmedon  in  long- 
phuirt  2750;  a.s.  roindis  ant  inad 
1158;  n.p.  in  cluichi  caintecha  sin 
2589 ;  nach  e  in  dei  da  n-adraid  ita 
2851;  g.p.  ochta  na  n-ánrad  951; 
faidb  na  fer  sin  1039;  d.p.  dona 
feraib  978;  risna  T.  1142;  -n-  assimi- 
lated :  ara  reim  sin  957;  g.p.  tuitim 
na  treinfer  964;  teithid  na  T.  968; 
ace.  sing,  and  gen.  pi.  project  nasal 
but  not  before  mediae :  intan  tucais 
in  gradh  1049. 

in  and  an  are  about  equally  com- 
mon :  in  fer  sin  1381 ;  tainig  an  fer 
907;  in  ri  1379;  g.s.  ag  rochtain  an 
rig  sin  981;  A.  ind  n-airdrig  2278; 
dochum  in  chatha  1378;  aicned  ind 
f hir  sin  1544 ;  banchele  ind  fhir  sin 
1648;  ba  do  luth  and  fhir  sin  2433; 
turlaigi  in  tiri  1748;  sluaig  inn  fhir 
sin  1428;  teinti  an  talman  853;  in 
talman  268;  n.p.  na  trenmilid  4478; 
g.p.  don  turis  inna  fer  sin  1845; 
formna  na  fer  sin  1527;  d.p.  dona 
feraib  sin  1374. 

In  a  few  instances  the  art.  precedes 
a  governing  noun:  6,  1845,  4112;  na 
hindtamlaid  na  huile  in  chinid  da 
uili  571 ;  in  fer  na  tocla  1601 ;  ingen 
in  rig  na  nEberda  4645;  especially 
when  the  governed  noun  is  followed 
by  sin :  an  sechtmad  ri  an  toicheast- 
ail  sin  na  Greg  1303,  4112. 

The  art.  is  used  for  poss.  pro- 
nouns: an  — his:  an  brathair  1018; 
=  their :  na  crideda  4489 ;  tuc  in 
trenfer  in  sciath  2128 ;  rosin  in  laim 
2452 ;  ar  met  na  duba  2997;  ni  thanic 


cride  inn  athar  uirri  519 ;  cor-leig  in 
laim  risin  craib  3539 ;  ro-sin-sium  an 
laim  ndeis  cuige  3637 ;  rosin  an  laim 
4568;  fuirmis  P.  an  sciath  4496; 
seolais  an  sleig  4495;  rogreiseadar 
na  heochu  4480. 

Fem.  n.s.  a  tugadh  int  sleag  1159  ; 
o  tainic  in  adaig  1339;  ind  agaid 
2188;  ac  seo  in  bean  2158;  inn  ocu- 
adatu  1436;  inn  ingen  1582,  1921; 
ind  n-itu  1774;  uar  ind  n-uaitni 
2472;  g.s.  do  thenid  inna  hidbarta 
2245;  d.s.  ima  chuid  don  rigi  7  don 
fhlaithus  1344 ;  asan  chathraig  1391 ; 
asin  eh.  1393;  isint  sleib  4682. 

in  (1)  direct  interrogative:  in  ole  lat 
ind  do  thigerna  3979 ;  in  at  firu  3708 ; 
an  sailti  4654;  in  facci  misi  3719; 
an  cumain  let  4429;  an  cualadais 
4780;  an  faicend  tu  4886;  an  tibri 
anois  4895. 

(2)  indirect  whether,  whether.. .or: 
an  mberam  coscur  ivhether  we  shall 
gain  a  victory  1214;  ni  fhitir  an 
maithem  n-anácail  roshirfed  no  an 
comland  dochuirfed  riu  4012,  1184, 
5;  co  findar  ona  deib  an  ba  tarba 
do  T.  4227,  8. 

ina  or.   Ina  do  taab-so  4397. 

ina  nor ;  after  a  negative,  or.  Na 
gebsa  do  dera  ina  do  debrogoid  1028. 

ina  than  is,  than  1543,  4337.  Ina  eath 
do  chur  1598,  3461;  ina  beth  2921, 
3516,  3755,  4027;  ina  gach  duni 
2495,  3984;  2  s.  anai-siu  1058  ;  3  s. 
anda  395;  ina  627,  1063,  3455, 
4431 ;  ina  ritsu  3177  ;  is  mo  a  feidm- 
nert  a  tocbail  7  a  tuirnem  inna  ni 
triallaid  2482;  rel.  anas  4163 ;  glicca 
innas  3932;  3  p.  andat  sin  729; 
anat-som  1868;  buiden  as  chalma 
inaid  fein  1234. 

ina  what.  Nim  tualaing-sea  aireom  ina 
tanic  sund  2701.     V.  ana. 

inad  m.  place.  Int  inad  i  rroibi  1509; 
a  inudh  3640;  ua  leis-suim  fein  int 
inad  498;  roindis  ant  inad  1158;  in 
gach  inad  1213 ;  as  a  n-inud  3420 ; 
f uaradar  inad  897 ;  in  n-enad  selga 
1541 ;  i  n-inud  dib  1759 ;  co  ruigi  in 
inad  sin  912;  ar  inad  reid  roglan 
4856  ;  can  inad  d'  fagbail  1252 ;  na 
hinada  tirma  3617;  a  n-inada  1745; 
inada  na  n-uisced-sa  1749 ;  ar  inad- 
aib  4452;  a  n-inadaib  4604;  'ma 
n-inadaib  2329,  3622;  a  hinadaib 
3750. 

inand  the  same.   Ni  ba  hinand  2086. 

inar  m.  vest,  tunic.  7  inar  orsnaith 
ilbrec  3735  ;  inair  chaema  1274. 

inathar  bowels  533.   Wi. 


387 


25—2 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


inbaid  time,  known  period  of  time.    Da 

hinbaid  1723.    Tbc,  Laws. 
inber  estuary.    Dar  inbearaib  1744;  i 
nn-indberaib  na  haband  3512.   Fel.2 

incbind  brai?is.  Da  incbind  3434. 

in-cboscim  I  indicate,  signify,  in- 
struct. P.p.  robincoiscedb  di-se3589. 
T.T.1 

ind  in  it,  there,  thither,  therefor.  Gacb 
ni  asfas  docbair  ind  2325;  cia  nom- 
coraig  ind  117;  co  cuirer  C.  cbugaib 
ind  4892;  ac  buain  in  gai  ind  1018; 
arna  rindad  ind  1462;  7  ind  mar 
dauadar  1761;  co  rosaid  in  cloideb 
ind  1892;  rocindid  leo  mo  marbad- 
sa  ind  2053;  a.s.m.n.  of  i  n- 

ind  (1)  end,  conclusion,  death.  In  ole 
lat  ind  do  tbigerna  3979.  (2)  top  of 
head.   Ara  n-indib  401. 

ind  us.   Roimluaid  ind  3175,  1770. 

ind-amail,  int-sbamail  f.  resemblance, 
image,  likeness,  imitation.  Ba  bind- 
amail  daatbair  an  gille  sin  3931 ;  ba 
bindtamuil  aidchi  dona  bairsidib 
sin  3082;  o  'tcbondairc-si  erred  7 
indtamail  a  n-atbar  ina  sciatbaib 
coema  2173. 

indarba  expulsion,  exile  220,  235,  632, 
4133.    P.H. 

indarbaim  I  expel,  bemish.  P.p.  robin- 
darbad  365 ;  roindarbad  1540. 

inde,  inne  f.  inwards,  sense,  quality. 
Rotregdastar  a  bucbt  7  a  bindi  2089 ; 
cor-tregd  a  indi  1011 ;  tre  indib  1194 ; 
da  indib  4191 ;  ac  tarring  a  n-indi 
,532.    Tbc,  Aur. 

indecbadb  m.  vengeance  812  Eg.  P.H. 

indell,  innell  m.  preparation,  appara- 
tus, device,  means,  dress.  Indnell 
1739;  inndeall  889;  ger-b  ole  a 
bindell  1766;  triana  indeoill  A. 
3650. 

mdelhcróá&eruel-ordered.  Anellcbroda 
4862,  innellcrodba  Eg. 

indéll-dírech  straight-ordered,  straight- 
arranged.  Tuc  urcbar  n-indilldirucb 
2853 ;  urcbur  n-indelldiuriucb  3187 ; 
co  bindilldireacb  4872. 

ind-fógairim  I  drive  over,  enclose(?). 
Pret.  3  s.  co  rainfbogair  1169. 

indgnam  fit  deed,  cause.  Ba  bindgnam 
comperta  di  2688.  Ind-gnam.  Cf. 
Tbc.  p.  140;  Laios. 

indile  cattle.  Conteicbit  duine  7  indili 
1641 ;  ac  inred  alma  7  indili  1889 ; 
ar  gur  air  almad  7  indili  1037. 

indisim,  ind-ess-fiadaim  relate,  describe. 
Ipv.  2  s.  indis  dam  1673, 1830 ;  innis 
innti 3558;  subj.  1  s.  curaindisurl025; 
coroindisiur2179;cencobindusardit 
1350;  ipf.  3s.  na  bindised  air  1863; 


fut.  1  s.  indesait  493,  1702,  1890,  5, 
Eg.  indeasat;  2  fut.roindisfead  1606; 
pret.  3  s.  roindis  1902,  637,  1158, 
2081,  2632;  raindis  1103,  2081; 
3  p.  roindisedar  4758,  4761;  cor- 
indiseadar  2974 ;  p.  pres.  3  s.  in- 
nister  1288,  1296,  3344;  indister 
1573,  6,  2993;  p.p.  robindised  2148, 
9;  v.n.  ga  indisi  1102,  1651,  indisin 
Eg.;  ag  indisin  1157,  4070,  4747; 
a  innisin  1213;  d'  indisin  1823, 
2986. 

in-diu  to-day.  Mad  gusan  ndiu  2244; 
aniu  1356,  3259,  4394,  4425;  cosaniu 
3390;  cosaniu  4321,  4432,  4566; 
gusaniu  4410,  4531. 

indlaim  I  wash.  P.p.  3  s.  conar- 
bindlad  a  aiged  2996. 

indligtbecb  rational  (?)  3343.  Cf.  with 
in-  privative  C.C. 

indlim  I  prepare,  adjust,  lay  snares 
for.  Pret.  3  s.  roindill  4534;  p.p. 
robindled  1512;  v.n.  m.  indled 
1120.    P.H.,  Wi. 

ind-lis  hall.  A. p.  rolinastar  na  bind- 
lesa  518;  na  binleasa  704. 

indmas  m.  treasure,  ivealth.  D'  ind- 
masaib  1837,  1927;  na  catbid  uar 
seoid  na  bar  n-indmasa  2236. 

indmat  washing.  Ac  indmad  a  cbos 
260,474.    Cf.  Wi.,indlatP.H. 

ind-raic  just,  ivorthy.  Conipar.  ind- 
rucu  728. 

ind-red  m.  overrunning,  devastating, 
raiding.  Ac  indriud  496;  ac  inrud 
2149;  ac  inrad  351,  867;  d'  indred 
in  tire  521,  2952;  ag  inred  930, 1236; 
ac  inred  1889.  Indretbim  incurro 
P.H. 

ind-ruim account, description.  Bunadb- 
indruim  9.    Indram  C.C. 

ind-saigim  I  approach,  attack.  Pres. 
3  s.  indsaigidb  3762;  3  p.  indsaigid 
4687,  4859;  pret.  3  s.  roinnsaig  1046, 
3581;  is  é  dotreninnsaigb  3776; 
roindsaig  3131 ;  3  p.  roinnsaigbsit 
3774;  roindsaigset  3303,  4443;  v.n. 
often  as  prep. :  'ca  bindsaige  to  her 
1533;  dia  innsaigid  3788;  d'  ind- 
saigi  1025,  1186,  2455;  d'  indsaig 
1038,  1117;  da  n-ind-saigid  to  them 
918,  1409,  1125. 

indsin  for  that,  on  that  account  365. 

ind-tocbál  f.  a  glorifying,  honouring. 
Ua  bindtocuail  aiceanta  705. 

indus  m.  manner.  Cacb  indus  dofédab 
1081;  cip-indus  3707.  how :  Indus 
dobereadb  indeall  889,  cindus  Eg. ; 
indus  ba  lia  ina  mar  dosbail  935. 

Infixed  pronouns:  Is.  rom-cbrecbtnaig 
3317;  cia  norn-coraig  117;  ni  bed 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


rom-greisfed  4176;  ata  'com-gres- 
acht  4382;  dom-buaidread  1352; 
anti  rom-gonaid  3797;  is  tren  rom- 
thraid-sea  3981;  2  s.  rod-gresand 
4391 ;  ni  dad  t'  aincfed  853 ;  rad-riad- 
aig3495;  misi  rot-marbh  3679 ;  3  s. 
rus-facaib  2075,  2840,  3548;  conis- 
fagaib  4549;  rus-gab  4220;  ar  inti 
ros-muirfe  3722 ;  m.  dos-fanig  4051 ; 
co  rus-marbsat  2303 ;  dus-faiuic 
3744  ;  co  ra-marb  878 ;  rus-timchill 
2524;  co  rus-gon  3101;  rus-bean 
2074;  dos-tuc  3490;  rus-telg  2584; 
rus-crecbtnaig  3110;  cia  ros-marbh 
3831,  2;  ini  ras-tangabair  4729;  ani 
rus-tangadar  4746 ;  3  p.  ni  ru-s-fasm 
4400;  dona  sluagaib  dos-cid  2415; 
o  rus-facus  2038;  ros-lin  fuailfed 
3059;  ros-crothastar  3096;  ar  met 
na  heagla  ros-gab  4129. 

ingaf.  nail,  claw,  talon.  N.p.  abingni 
croma  532 ;  a  hingne  urnocbta  905 ; 
da  n-iningnib  1222 ;  da  hingnib 
1855. 

in-gairge  f.  fierceness,  urgency.  Re 
hingargi  314. 

ingantach  wonderful.  Muntorc  alaind 
ingantacb  755 ;  na  hairm  ingan- 
tacba  2413. 

ingeltrad  m.  grazing.  D'  ingeltradh 
feoir  909. 

ingen  f.  (1)  daughter.  Iunand  ingean 
Shatuim  777,  1180;  'man  ingin 
2133;  in  ingen  1059;  d'  iarraid  a 
ingine  fair  2306;  rogab  in  ingin 
1068,  28;  inn  ingen  11;  ropoc  A.  a 
ingin  1358;  voc.  a  ingen  1672,  1821. 
(2)  maiden,  girl.  N.  du.  da  ingin 
728;  inn  ingen  1582;  golgairi  na 
hingine  2078;  don  ingin  1793;  ace 
aitbisiugud  na  bingine  3806;  n.p. 
na  hingena  723,  1372;  g.p.  dar 
aicbtib  na  n-ingen  725 ;  da  fhaiscin 
a  n-ingen  2648;  re  hingenaib  720, 
1458,  2792;  rogairm  a  hingena 
chuci  3238. 

ingenas  m.  girlhood,  maidenhood  727. 

ingnáis  absence.  An-ingnais  a  hiaraind 
927,  4511;  'na  ingnais  794,  1506, 
4728;  do  beith  'na  n-ingnais  4046; 
a  n-ingnais  a  shiil  4394 ;  ad  i.  4781 ; 
i  n-ingnais  2597.    Wi. 

in-gnáth,  in-gnád  wonder.  Ua  hin- 
gnad  290,  4,  691,  3451,  4301,  4332 ;  i 
nn-ingnaib  4167  v.  dingna;  rob  in- 
gnath  leis  he  wondered  3618;  fo  hin- 
gnad  leosum  sin  3831. 

in-irisech  unbelieving,  not  having  faith. 
Inniriseach  1304. 

inis  f.  island.  Inis  Lemin  1833;  na 
inn  inis  sin  1838;  ar  luchdna  hindsi 


uili  1840, 1 ;  g.s.  insi  264 ;  aireochus 
indse  L.  1935,  2235;  i  rigi  indsi  Chio 
2050;  i  n-inis  4826;  isan  indsi  sin 
2034  ;  'mun  indsi  d'  acuail  2040  ;  co 
hindis  L.  2042;  rofacbadar  in  indsi 
2047;  g.p.  dealba  na  n-indsed  4825; 
a  hindsib  1521. 

in-isle  f.  lowliness  671. 

in-main  dear,  beloved.  A  athair  in- 
main  1354,  1889,  1903,  2103;  as 
inmmain  atrasda  4566;  co  hinmain 
1068.    P.H. 

inmaine  f.  affection,  loveableness  1072. 
Ara  i.  1583,  338;  tar  th'  eis  ar  tb' 
inmoine4709;  sirinmaine  223. 

in-marbtha  slay  able.   Ba  hi.  3967. 

intamail,  ind-samail,  v.  Lnd-amail. 

intamlaigim  I  resemble.  Pres.  3  s. 
nach  indtamlaigend  862;  ipv.  2  s. 
na  hindtamlaig  571. 

inund  the  same.  Ua  hinund  arm 
1412. 

ir-chradach/í«/mí/,  transitory,  ■perish- 
ing, corruptible  3311. 

ir-dairc  renowned,  celebrated.  Co 
cluach  irdirc  1181. 

ir-degail  f.  keeping  apart,  separating. 
'Ga  n-irrdegail  2135. 

ir-demon  m.  demon,  devil.  N.p.  ir- 
demna  3019. 

ir-dered  very  end,  close.  Ua  hirdered 
donn  aeichi  645 ;  i.  na  haidchi 
3964. 

iress  f.  faith.   Is  iris  limsa  836.   Wi. 

iret,  airet  distance  in  space  or  time. 
Ca  iret  421. 

ir-gal  f.  valour,  conflict,  attack,  ob- 
jective. A  n-agaid  irgaili  1279;  in 
n-aimsir  irgaile  1472;  isin  n-eigin 
irgaili  4483 ;  re  hathsgis  na  hirgaili 
3001,  3061;  inn  irgail  do  thairmesc 
2138;  co  n-adandad  irgaili  583;  ag 
iarraid  irgaili  2803;  re  hirgail  neoil 
3083,  4020;  a  n-irgail  catha  3756; 
do  thuitim  a  cathaib  7  a  n-irgalaib 
4375.    V.  ergalach.    C.C.,  TSh. 

ir-naidm  betrothal  689,  forsnaidm  Eg. 

ir-nascda  despondent  241,  hernascda 
Eg.    Ar-nascim  Wi. 

is  is.  Pres.  ind.  1  s.  isam  658,  2110, 
3705,  3984;  isim-si  4723;  with  ni: 
nim  2701,  5;  with  gid:  gid  am  1124; 
2  s.  cid  ad  4467;  pres.  ind.  3  s.  is  tú 
1028 ;  as  iat  so  1684 ;  is  iad  so  4296 ; 
is  iat  so  1378;  as  iad  ua  cuingid 
1408;  is  iad  ba  comnesa  2294;  as 
iad  in  dias  2690;  is  fada  4710;  as 
fada  dam-sa  4340,  4551 ;  as  inmain 
atrasda  4566;  7  as  e  ni  doroigne 
3207,  3273;  adar  lium-sa  as  fagus 
4676. 


339 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


Eel.  is,  as:  is  i  mo  deslam  is  dee 
damsa  4063;  is  é  mo  chlaidem  as 
cumachtach  dam  4064;  in  duine  as 
só  4146;  as  rit-su  as  dingmala  lium 
tachar  4260. 

With  con-:  conid  mé  fein  1252, 
1865;  connod  2684;  conad  4922; 
conadh  e  4914. 

With  do- :  danad  ainm  3026,  3034. 

With  ma-:  masa  dei  misi  3610; 
masa  thindenus  let  3178;  masa 
roshaint  rigi  fuil  agad  4468;  masa 
thusa  sin  4723;  mas  ead  as  ail  lib 
2144;  hence  2  p.  masad  cumachtaig 
4261;  3  p.  is  at  2680,  4704;  at 
e  andso  3765;  it  e  andso  1388,  1728, 
2681;  at  iat  so  1410;  in  at  firu  na 
fisi  3708;  with  ni:  nidad  daini  in 
sluag  3350 ;  nir  3643 ;  pres.  subj .  3  s. 
cor-ob  1062,  3044;  cor-ap  2819;  gor- 
ip  e  836;  cor-op  3100;  cur-a  4001; 
cor  3124;  no  co-ro  luaithred  2256; 
mad  misi  chena  1308 ;  madh  anois 
3598;  madh  firu  3709;  damad  cos- 
crachrne4383;  ci-p-indus3707;  conar 
air  fen  docuaid  ann  1206;  fut.  1  s.  7 
bid  fada  bam  loingsech  3377,  4711  ; 
3  s.  nochaual710 ;  ba  he  fen  bid  ri  and 
146,  3377;  rel.  im  gach  ni  uas  ail 
letsu  674;  cipindus  besa  torrachtain 
3707;  anti  bus  coscrach  4392;  ni 
bhus  mhó  3798;  with  com-:  coma 
slan  1147;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  cen  go  bed 
2684;  dobad  usa  liumsa  1116;  gid 
mad  béo  robad  balb  1012;  bud  lib 
coscar  4146;  bud  adbal  857;  nech 
bad  ailli  na  bad  erergna  inas  4163; 
mar  bad  air  fein  880;  with  com-: 
comad  1947,  2116,  2143,4151;  corn- 
mad  341,  2,  621;  3  p.  comtis  2381, 
2884,  3130  ;  comdis  1885,  3287,3430, 
3711;  comdais  283, 1265,  1278,3064, 
4448;  pret.  Is.  bam  2243;  2s.  bat 
3597 ;  3  s.  ba  hiat  so  994 ;  ba  fograch 
2247;  ba  machtnugud  945,  2245;  fo 
hingnad  3831 ;  uá  977 ;  ua  cora  dit 
625 ;  fa  456,  901, 2230,  2430,  4083,  6 ; 
is  iad  fa  fileada  1188;  fá  4705,  4800; 
with  com-:  coma  1098,  1453,  1948, 
2528,  2863;  pret.  3  p.  bat  mertnecha 
2978;  ger-uat  3419;  comdar  289; 
pf .  2  s.  co  rabais  marbtha  853 ;  3  s. 
nir-ba  3167,  3198;  uair  nar-u-ail  le 
1574;  rob  adbul  2247 ;  nir-bo  1026; 
rob  usa  duit  3754;  an  uair  dob  og 
me  1224;  rop  aneolach  1538;  roppa 
brec  1629;  rabba  mo  1631;  dob  ail 
let  4380;  co  nar-bh  fhearrdi  794; 
pf.  3  s.  ger-b  oc  1448,  1544,  1561, 
1766;  ger-ba  1967,  3166,  3198,  3216, 
4794;  ger-ua3154,  3865;  ger-u3115, 


ger  uaiti  1470 ;  ger-sa  miscais  4565, 
ger-uo  Eg. ;  darsa  comainm  Fitoin 
496. 

is  beloiv,  under,  subsequently.  An-iss 
from  below,  up  4548;  ann-is  1665; 
isrisatberurU.  his  4802  ;  hios  p.  xvii. 

isa  whose  is.  Croiceand  in  tuirc  isa 
cetguine  rocommaidius  357 ;  dona 
rigaib  isa  delba  rorindad  and  709; 
ainindi  na  deisi  asa  cuirp  rabái 
fuirri  4740. 

isel  of  low  stature,  low.  Fer  isel  tailc 
2557;  a  haitib  islib  4319. 

i-sin,  i>.  i-  with  art. 

itge  prayer.  Ag  iarraid  a  itgi  1652 ;  a 
n-itche  4767.    WL,  Laws,  Ped. 

ithim  I  eat.  Ipf.  subj.  3  p.  co  n-ithdis 
2302;  pret.  3  p.  aduadar  516;  v.n. 
f.  can  ithi  3560;  ac  ithi  3332,  5, 
3351,  2073;  da  ithi  2383,  4;  a  n- 
ithi  526;  do  ithi  3341 ;  d'  ithi  3344, 
3356. 

ittu  f.  thirst  1754;  ind  n-itu  1774; 
g.s.  lasud  lanitad  1757;  acht  mad 
oenerti  ittad  1771 ;  ri  heicin  na 
hitad  sin  1776;  do  chase  a  hithad 
2074;  rachaisced  a  n-itaid-sium 
1810;  i  nn-itaid  2262.    P.H. 

Iunaind  f.  Juno.  A  templaib  uaisli 
Iunainde  3893. 

lá,  lathe  m.  day.  Eacaithed  in  la  sin 
2255,  2284 ;  o  thanic  la  1923  ;  o  tainig 
an  la  4622 ;  ata  an  la  ac  coimthriall 
ehugaib  4730 ;  da  mad  hé  an  lá  1055 ; 
in  la  bratha  2811 ;  renna  in  lse  arna- 
marach  2745;  lanshoillsiugud  an  lai 
3992 ;  re  tosach  an  lai  4850 ;  re  soillsi 
an  lai  3929 ;  a  cindseacht  laithi  1183 ; 
a  medon  lai  1850;  isin  lo  sin  3330, 
3569 ;  dun  lo  574 ;  do  lo  arnamarach 
2195;  i  llo  samraid  1426;  i  mucha 
do  lo  7  do  laithi  2270. 

la,  le  with  :  prep,  with  ace. :  la  h-  before 
vowels :  confused  with  ri.  Can  chun- 
gnam  ré  4488,  le  Eg.;  nir  miad  ré 
Creon  4625 ;  la  h A.  1530 ;  ua  minic 
lesi  7  re  P.  1935 ;  nir-ba  miad  re 
lucht  na  luingi  2010;  with  pronomi- 
nal elements:  1  s.  ni  hingnad  lem 
859 ;  lium  1070,  3753,  3983,  4259 ;  is 
iris  limsa  836 ;  ropad  maith  lim  2681, 
2507;  is  truaigi  lem  855;  ni  lem 
fen  1779;  2  s.  let  2928,  3612;  dobera 
let  856;  leat  1029,  3382;  3  s.  leis 
955,  2218;  is  les  2192,  3554;  leiss 
4442;  f.  lé  a  heenur  4316;  le  794, 
1574,  2816;  ba  ferg  le  868;  ni  ba 
miad  le  2282 ;  le-si  2762 ;  1  p.  lindi 
678,  1948,  2547;  linde  4596;  lind 
4887,  8;  2  p.  as  ail  lib  2144.  2158, 


390 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


2237,  2541;  is  leibb  3879;  3  p.  leo 
1001,  3372,  4732;  leo-som  727;  leo- 
sum  1925 ;  lasin  ngresacht  sin  2730 ; 
leisin  clis  sin  3977;  leisna  gnimaib 
sin  3973. 

labraim  /  speak.  Ipv.  2  s.-na  labair 
ni  as  mo  é  4155 ;  pret.  3  s.  nir-laiiair 
3581 ;  rolobair  431,  2232,  2678,  2917 ; 
labrais  4717,  8;  rolabair  1655,  3450; 
do-labairl211;  nir-labair  922;  nocor- 
labair  1111 ;  ro-lauair  1700;  ni  dar- 
labair  ris  4400;  3  p.  o  nar-labradar 
1263;  p.  ipf.  subj.  3  pi.  ralabairthea 
4470;  p.p.  rolabrad  3368;  v.n.  labra 
1775. 

lac  weak,  feeble.    Co  lag  4479.     Wi. 

ladar  fork,  prong,  toe.  I  ladraib  glac 
2810.    Wi.,  O'E, 

láech  m.  hero  2906 ;  doericb  loecb  lanoc 
2510 ;  gabail  ar  lamhaibb  in  laicb  sin 
3582  ;  a  ledartbaib  an  laeich  sin  1156 ; 
luamaireacbt  in  laicb-sea  2548 ;  don 
lecb  sin  3286;  n.p.  ralenaid  a  lama 
na  lseich  sin  951 ;  conciiigit  laicb 
lutbmara  1704 ;  ni  lemdais  laicb 
gaili  3384;  re  loecbaib  leatbniarba 
3487.    L.  laicus. 

láechda  heroic.   Laecbdba  3875. 

láech-dacht  f.  heroism  1450. 

láech-rad  f.  hero-folk.  N.s.  laecbrad 
1872 ;  in  laecbraid  letartbacb  3865 ; 
i  Uaniaib  na  loecbraide  3457,  3421, 
3060;  lama  na  lsechraidi  4507,  982, 
3421;  d.s.  do  lscbraid  1843;  ar  an 
laecbraid  944;  ni  loiscfea  loecbraid 
L.  3144. 

lagaigim  I  iveaken.  S-pret.  3  p.  ra- 
lagaigset  213. 

láichtnech  hero-like,  well-bred  731. 

láidir  strong.     Ina  laim  laidir  924. 

láidiud  exhorting,  e.rliortation.  Eisin 
1.  sin  2611.    C.C. 

laigef.  lying,  pressing.  Ag  tromlaigi  air 
4012 ;  o  robui  'na  loigi  2383 ;  isin 
loigi  sin  2395;  7  leigis  'na  loigi  fair 
hi  4702.    V.  loige. 

laigen  lance.  Laigneda  letbna  1435. 
Wi. 

laigim  I  lie  down.  Pret.  3  s.  ralaiga- 
stair  1215;  dep.  subj.  pres.  co  loiger 
atorro  ar  medon  4567. 

láim  I  throw,  set,  move.  Pres.  subj. 
1  p.  co  laieam  gléo  and  7  na  T.  4857 ; 
pret.  3  s.  ralai  socbt  7  snim  an  rig 
n-uasal  1161,  roloidb  Eg.;  p.p.  3  p. 
rolaeit  cairgi  3087.    P.H.,  rolá  The. 

laindecb  bitter,  indignant.  Acresias 
laindecb  712;  co  loindeacb  4595. 
Lainne  acrimonia  Sg.  50h  15;  aeredo 
52a  16,  62b3;  indignatus  Theb.  11. 
220. 


lainderta  blazing.  Aclaidim  lainderta 
4016;  loindearrda  411.    Wi. 

laindrigda  brilliant,  blazing  398.  Cf. 
lainnriga  brilliance  C.C. 

láir  f.  mare.   N.p.  lairtbecha  2293. 

lám  f.  Iiand.  Tre  laecbdacbt  a  llaime 
1451;  'na  laim  920,  966,  4714;  ina 
laim  924, 1347;  iter  a  da  láim  1018; 
rothogaib  a  dá  laim  1023;  v.s.  a  lam 
3672;  g.p.  imad  ar  lam  1007;  ra- 
lenaid a  lama  950,  4845 ;  cor-iadsad 
a  lama  2172 ;  da  lamaib  croma  938 ; 
asa  lamaib  4479;  ina  lamaib  2174; 
rotbocbadar  na  lama  2518. 

lámaim  /  dare.  Ipf.  3  s.  rolamad  3635 ; 
subj.  cuna  lamad  1428;  3  p.  ni  lam- 
dais  908 ;  2  fut.  3  p.  ni  lenidis  3384  ; 
pret.  3  s.  nir-lam  2374,  3659,  4715; 
3  p.  nir-lamsad  4291. 

lámand  glove.  N.p.  7  a  lamanda  2504. 
Wi. 

lám-chomairt  f .  hand-smiting,  lamenta- 
tion. Dorignelamcbomairtmoirl49 ; 
lamcbomairt  3396. 

lám-chrand.    V.  crand-laem. 

lám-gel  Inning  white  hands.  Da  ingin 
...lamgela  731;  acin  rigain  lamgil 
2039 ;  in  rigan  laimgel  2746. 

lán(l)/nZ/,  u.cpds.  (2)  handful.  Lana 
glaici  3637. 

lán-adbul  very  huge  2163,  2734. 

lán-áilgius  m.  importunate  desire.  Ee 
1.  3153. 

lán-álaind  very  beautiful  1441,  1961, 
3767,  4443. 

lán-athlum  full-active  3499. 

lán-báite  quite  submerged  3535. 

lán-brised  m.  full  fracture  2533. 

lá.n-búala.dfullsmiting.  Eelanbualadh 
3583. 

lán-cnalma  very  brave  924,  2518,  3417, 
3556,  4298. 

lán-chomacb,  v.  comach. 

lán-chomachtacri./ííZZ  powerful  3767. 

lán-cbotlad  m.  sound  sleep  Í174. 

lán-chumang  very  narrow,  strait.  Na 
luireacba  lanchumga  3518. 

lán-derg  very  red  414. 

lán-díumsacb  full  proud  1843. 

lán-dlúthud  m.  a  complete  closing, 
encompassing.  Arna  lan-dlutbad 
2823. 

Ian-domain  very  deep.  Cuma  locha 
linnti  landoimne  3617. 

lán-dorcha  quite  dark  1730. 

lán-echtach/f<Z2  valorous  998. 

Ian- fata  very  long  1367. 

lán-fnairsijig  full  wide.  Ba  letbna 
lanfairsinga  3867. 

lán-fhergach/u»  angry.  Amalleoman 
1.4018;  co  loindeacb  lanfergacb4595. 


391 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


lán-folam  quite  empty,  deserted.    Ro- 

fhagsad  a  longpbort  lanfolam  4614. 
lán-gainem  abundant  sand  2933. 
lán-gel/»Zi  white,  very  white.  7  a  lama 

lange'la  4386. 
lán-gér  full  sharp,  very  sharp.    Ces- 

fhagada  langera  1399 ;  claideb  langer 

2499,  3403. 
lán-glan  quite  pure  1154. 
lán-imthecht    full    movement.     Robo 

thairniesc    luitb     7    lanimtbeacbta 
^  3488. 
lán-ittu  f .  intense  thirst.  Lasud  lanitad 

bal  orro  1757. 
lán-lethan  very  wide  2791 . 
lán-marb  quite  dead  1099,  3659. 
lán-marbad  m.  a  full  slaying,  killing 

outright.     G.s.    lanmarbtha   deadly 

982 ;  laicb  arna  lanmarbad  3948. 
lán-menmnach  full-spirited  712. 
lán-mer  very  mad,  savage.    Leomain 

lanmera  3351. 
lán-meraigecht    f.   very  mad  racing. 

Ar  1.  4504. 
lán-mét  f.  full  greatness,  full  measure 

1267. 
lán-mín  very  fine,  very  minute.   No  co- 

ro  luaitbred  lanmin  2256,  2863,  3146. 
lán-mór  very  large  1392,  1939,  2700, 

4112;  lasracba  lanmora  4448. 
lann-dérgud   m.  splendid  couch   636. 

Lainn.i.  solus  no  taitbnemacb  O'Dav. 

No.  102. 
lán-óc  very  young  2510. 
lán-radarcc  m.  full  view  3989. 
lán-rith  sheer  running.   Ar  luas  7  ar  1. 

2434. 
lán-sáeglach  full  of  days,  aged  2186. 
lán-salach,  lán-salchar,  v.  salacb,  sal- 

cbar. 
lán-sboillse  f.    full  light.    Cona  lan- 

soillsi  635,  702,  3005,  4622. 
lán-sboillsiugudm.  full  shining.  L.  an 

lád  da  tarrachtain  3992. 
lán-siblach  far-travelled.     Loingsecb 

lansiblacb  4532. 
lán-talam  teeming  earth.    Cbum  lair  7 

lantalman  2537. 
lán-tarraing  perfect  dragging.  A  trillsi 

'ga  lantarraing  3457. 
lán-tírim  full  dry,  very  dry  1745. 
lán-tuar /i/ZZ  bleaching.  Mar  lenid  arna 

lantuar  3366. 
lár  (1)  ground,  floor.   Cbum  lair  2537; 

docburn  lair  4241 ;  re  lar  326 ;   ro- 

leigsedar  a  ferga  re  lar  2177 ;  ar  lar 

305,  950,  1784,  3108.    (2)  middle.  Ar 

lar  in  chatba  2869,  3120,  3276,  3401, 

3790 ;  ar  lar  an  baili  4762 ;  ar  lar  na 

faidebi  4422;  ar  lar  int  sluaig  1820; 

for  lar  an  tigi  1152;  ar  lar  ind  fbeoir 


2061;  ar  lar  inn  senaig  2389,  2394; 

ar  lar  na  haband  3522;    tare  lár  in 

armuig  4056. 
lár-medón  very  midst  1805,  4170;  co 

lormedon  3758. 
lasaim  I  burn.   Pret.  3  p.  o  ralasadar 

4683;  v.n.  risin  lasud  1756.   2  fut. 

3  p.  lasfaitis  Tbc. 
lasair  f.  flame.     Fidren  ruadlasracb 

2245 ;  ar  barr  uaehtaracb  na  lasracb 

4143;   an  buinde  lasamain  lasracb 

4739;  do  lasraig  a  cbuirp  4284;  n.p. 

comdais  lasracba  lanmora  4448.   Wi. 
lasamain  flaming,  glancing.   Retlaind 

lasambuin  189;  lee  1.  318,  978, 1084, 

1455,   (sic  can.)  2221,  4016,  4819; 

aitbindi  lasamain 4714 ;  n.p.  lasamna 

412, 767, 1400, 1755, 1985, 3139.  Tbc. 
lasamnacht  f .  a  blazing,  flaming.   N.p. 

lasamnachta   398.     Cf.   lasamnacb 

blazing, flamy  C.C.  ^<n-r,-       0.  tr- 

latha-gaili,  v.  fláith-gaili.  v^&**      XA-ÍU 
latbair  f.  place,  position ,  field  of  battle. 

G.s.inudblatbrecb  3746.  T.T.1,  Tbc. 
lathrad,  p.  lathraide  f.  coll.  mud  pool, 

slough.  Coma  lathraide  1745.  Lathar 

pholl  mud  pools,  Acall.  3537. 
láthrugud  =  di-láthrugiid  demolishing, 

ruining.     Da    latbrugud    296.     Ro- 

latraigset  Alex.  247 ;  láthracb  site, 

ruin  Wi. 
latrand  m.  robber  255.   Wi. 
lebaid   f.   (1)    bed.    Ana   tech   leptha 

4200;    ar  lebaid  636;    a  leapthaib 

3950;    i  llepthaib  512;   da  lepthaib 

647;  ina  lepthaib  1907.    (2)  leaguer 

ralensad  co  longpbort  7  co  lepthaib 

iad  4296. 
lee  f .  stone.  Lee  logmar  317 ;  ba  fograch 

leca  logmara  2248;  co  leccaib  767; 

do  lecaib  1552,  3737.    Wi. 
lecán   m.    small  stone,  pebble.    Intan 

ticed  in  lecan  find  1664,  5;  lecana 

finna  1663. 
lecca,, cheek, jaw,  jawbone.  Imaleiccnib 

871.    C.C,  P.H. 
legaim  I  melt,  dissolve.    P.p.  3  p.  ra- 

legaid  1276. 
leges  m.  medicine,  cure.  Doleigesll45.     '  1 
leicim  /  leave,  alloiv,  let  go.   Pres.  2  s.    ■C/ 

cid  nam-leig-sea  3494  =  leigi;  3  s.  ni      / 

leigeand  4226 ;  3  p.  legaid  1081 ;  ipv. 

2  s.  leig  1024;  leic  551,  2129,  3797; 

2  p.  Ieicid2136;  leigid835, 1133;  fut. 

1  s.  leicfet  2549 ;  3  p.  ni  leigfid  844 ; 
ni  lecfet  1706;  2  fut.  2  s.  leicfedha 
3653 ;  3  s.  ni  leicfedh  831 ;  3  p.  cusa 
leicfitis  2310;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  co  na 
leiced  2005 ;  3  p.  co  leictis  1966 ;  nacb 
leictis2211;  cuna  leigtis  1798;  pret. 

2  s.  créd  'mar-leigis  1058;  3  s.  abs. 


392 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


leigis  4702;  roleig  3805,  4032,  4577; 
raleig  4317;  roleic  635,  3213,  3373; 
doleig  1161,  4474;  dep.  roleceastair 
325,  638 ;  3  p.  roleicsit  3746 ;  roleicset 
1885  ;  roleicsead  3182,  3513  ;  dep. 
roleigsedar  2177;  p.  ipv.  legal  1146; 
na  lecar  2460 ;  fut.  3  s.  leigfer  4607, 
leicfidhter  4607  Eg.;  leigfigther 
4028,  4603,  4656;  p.p.  3  s.  roleiged 
1793;  connar-leced  2800;  nir-leigead 
4795;  roleicit  2333,  2274;  v.n.  ale- 
gin  ris  to  show  it  3490;  ac  lecun 
2773;  do  lecun  1616;  a  lecun  3391; 
a  leigin  4588;  do  lecin  4784;  do 
leigen  830 ;  do  legan  4760 ;  do  lecud 
2283;  do  legad  4323,  4638. 
léidmech  strong,  robust  1997.  Acall. 
lémnech  a  jumping,  bounding.  Ac  lem- 
nig  3108;  rogob  ar  luaimnig  4504. 
I",  lingim.  C.C. 
lén  a  stop,  stopping.  Dluithither  re 
cleith  leuad  arna  landluthud  2823. 
Lean  .i.  bacáil  O'D.,  O'Dav.  No. 
1162. 
lenab  child.  Ar  son  leiniph  big  p.  xvii. 
lenaim,  lenim  I  stick  to,  follow.  Ipf. 
3  s.  is  cumma  nolenad  2357 ;  pret. 
3  s.  leanais  4529 ;  is  iad  so  rolen  ar 
tus  iad  4297 ;  3  p.  ralensad  4296 ;  v.n. 
a  llenmain  4121,  4868,  449. 
lénaim  I  wound,  strain.  Pres.  3  p. 
ralenaid  a  lama  na  lasich  sin  those 
heroes  wounded  their  hands  950  ;  ipv. 
lp.  ni  lenam  3798;  pret.  2  s.  is  lór 
ar-lenais  3794;  3  p.  co  raleansat  212. 
Wi. 
lend  f.  m.  smock.  7  lend  coem  corcor- 
glan  immi  1549 ;  tucad  leand  chasm 
2418.  f.  The. 
léne  shirt,  tunic  3203,  3734;  linscoit 

lenead  480 ;  mar  lenid  3366. 
lennán   darling,    sweetheart   1046;    d' 
indsaige  a  lleannain  1532 ;  dat  lean- 
dan  358,  do  lennan  (sic  corr.)  Eg.; 
7  rogreis  a  lennan  3802.    C.C. 
leóman  m.  lion.  Craicend  leomain  446, 
1414 ;  amalcuilenleoman3763;  amal 
leoman  1036,  2530,  4017;  fadba  leo- 
man  1474 ;    craicind  leoman  2672 ; 
chind   leoman   3029;   n.p.   leomain 
lanmera  3351. 
lér,  léir  clear,  visible.    Cor-ba  leir  daib 
each  lanradarcc  umpo  3989;  ba  ler 
disi  2648,  9;  conar-ba  leir  4265 ;  ler 
2488. 
ler  m.  flood,  main,  ocean.  In  lear  long- 
ach  2162;   seiseilbi  in  lera  longaig 
307 ;  do  learaib  in  mara  1939. 
léref.  (1)  diligence,  {2)  piety.  (3)  culture. 
(1)  re  leiri  1266.    (3)  ar  leri  a  hecna 
7  a  heolais  1590.    Fel.s 


ler-tinól  m.  multitudinous  gathering 
1592. 

les  advantage  p.  xv. 

les-mac  m.  stepson.   Da  lesmac  1689. 

les-máthair  f.  step-mother  1736,  4810. 

lesugud  m.  bettering,  providing  for, 
harbouring.  Do  lesubud  4760,'  1146. 
P.H. 

letarthach,  ledarthach  mangled,  man- 
gling, lacerating  414,  998,  3763, 
3865;  co  tuaig  ledarthaig996;  fadba 
leoman  letarthach  1474,  342;  laich 
leadharthacha  3535. 

leth  side,  direction.  Ar  gach  leth  1758 ; 
leath  3256 ;  each  leth  don  luing  1995 ; 
do  gach  leith  2225 ;  do  each  leth  3619 ; 
da  gach  leth  3279 ;  da  each  leith  4279, 
4461 ;  don  leith  ele  2221 ;  isin  leith 
aile  473 ;  cá  leth  rachus  4392 ;  i  lleith 
da  druim  co  rop  don  leith  araill  3099  ; 
do  leth  aili...don  leth  araill/ro?»  one 
side... from  the  other  1973;  ar  each 
oen  ba  leith  dib  2316;  ar  leith  cqmrt 
653 ;  fa  lsith  3926 ;  leth  for  leth  820 ; 
leith  ar  leth  1678,  3684;  do  leith  dar 
leth  3122;  a  leith  da  druim  940, 
1016 ;   'na  leith  secha  so  hios  p.  xvii. 

lethaim  I  spread.  V.n.  7  a  lama  langela 
ar  lethad  4386. 

lethan  broad.  Longphort  lethan  2734 ; 
co  tuaig  lethain  996 ;  7  claidim  lethan 
4576 ;  pi.  lethna  3867,  1399. 

lethan-glan  broad  and  clean  331. 

lethan-glas  wide  and  grey  174,  389. 

leth-gai  half-javelin  n.p.  1400.    C.C. 

leth-marb  half-dead  1013,  3237,  3487. 

leth-táeb  m.  one  side.  Do  lethtaib  in 
chatha  3304. 

letraim  I  mangle,  tear.  Pret.  3  s.  co 
lTotrenletair  3829 ;  p.p. p.  letartai 
3659  ;  fa  ledarthi  4845,  3237  ;  led- 
arthi,  Eg.  ledartha  1013,  1174,3237; 
v.n.  letradh  3676;  re  letrad  1435;  ar 
letrad  a  haigthi  1855  ;  a  ledarthaib 
1156. 

limaim  I  grind,  sharpen.  Pf.  p.  3  p. 
ralimaid  1269;  p. p.p.  limtha  978. 

lin  m.  number  1397,  1421.  In  lin  roba- 
mar  all  there  were  of  us  2031 ;  lin 
tachair  in  numbers  fit  for  battle  2145; 
dib  linib  both  together  2241. 

lin  multitude.  Linecur  1552,  lanecur 
Eg. 

linaim  I  fill.  Pret.  3  s.  co  ralin  1178; 
rolinastair  177;  rolinastar  517;  3  p. 
ralinsad  4107,  4459;  rolinsad  4849, 
2768,  4130;  rolinsadar  1609,  2643; 
p.p.  ge  rolinad  3610,  4594 ;  rolinaid 
leis  iad  1643 ;  co  linait  3137. 

linci  g.s.  of  lynx.  Do  craiccund  linei 
1552,  linceEg.    C.C. 


393 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


lind,  linn  pool.   Arna  lintib  1910. 

lind-fhuar  having  cold  water,  liquid- 
cool  174,  284,  1154. 

line  a  line.  In  lini  sleg  semnech 
2823. 

lín-écor  much  adornment.  Do  craic- 
ciund  linci  arna  linecur  do  lecaib 
logmara  1552,  lanecur  Eg. :  lin  mul- 
titude. 

lingar  slime,  poison.  Co  lingur  loiscend 
765;  lingar  .i.  ti  agh  i  mbi  aidhme 
lega  O'D. ;  lingair  .i.  teadnemach 
Stowe  452 ;  teidmlenamnachu  pesti- 
lentesMl.  15a9. 

lingim  /  leap,  start.  Pret.  3  s.  rolinga- 
stair  leirn  967,  2773;  roling  3499, 
4503;  3 p.  co  rolingsedar  menmanda 
2607;  rolingestar  na  T.  3512;  ro- 
lingsed  3939,  rolingistar  Eg. ;  v.n. 
leim  967 ;  a  lemenda  2332.   Wi. 

lin-mar  numerous.  Ger-ua  linmara 
gaiscedaig  3252. 

línnte,  linide  swelling,  swollen.  Cuma 
locha  linnti  3617;  sruth  lindti  fala 
638.   Acall. 

lín-scót  f.  linen  sheet,  linen.  A.s.  ba 
baine  linscoit  lenead  480.  Aisl., 
Acall. 

lobud  m.  rotting,  decay  2211. 

loch  lake,  loch.  N.p.  cuma  locha 
linnti  3616;  comdais  locha  283; 
ratirmaigit  lacha  7  luathaibne  1748. 

lochairthe  lacerated  1098.    Mn. 

lócharn  f.  light,  lamp.  Lochranda 
411. 

lochrad  m.  lacerating,  laceration  2212, 
luaithred  Eg.    The. ,  Mn. 

lóg,  lúag  reward.  Log  a  mbuada 2465  ; 
luag  a  eluichi  mesi  2499 ;  log  a 
chluichi  do  chommorad  2571. 

log-mar  precious  318,  1553,  2248;  do 
lecaib  loghmora  3738. 

loige,  laige  f.  lying  down.  Ina  loigi 
3373 ;  'na  loigi  2383,  4702 ;  am  bail 
a  mboi  'na  luighi  3682. 

loigim  I  lie  down,  settle.  2  fut.  3  p.  ni 
loigfitis  3411 ;  pret.  3  s.  roloig  2616  ; 
pres.  subj.  dep.  1  s.  co  loiger  4567. 

loindech,  v.  laindech. 

loindrech,  laindrech  brilliant,  flashing. 
Londrecha  1400 ;  loindreacha  411 ; 
loindreach  4819,  londrech  Eg.    C.C. 

loingsech  m.  voyager,  exile  3377,  4066, 
4532;  dochum  an  loingsig  P.  4325. 
Wi. 

loiscim  I  burn.  2  s.  ni  loiscfea  3144 ; 
fut.  3  s.  loiscfid  1239 ;  2  fut.  3  s.  ni 
loiscfed  3412;  pret.  3  s.  co  raloisc 
4358;  mar  doloisc  C.  4294;  p.  ipv. 
3  s.  loiscther  lib  in  ben. ..7  loiscther 
misi   2237,   8;  fut.   3  p.   loiscfidhtir 


3684;  p.p.  cu  raloiscead  783,  1237; 
intan  roloisced  1721,  4629. 

loiscthech  burning.  D.p.  co  leccaib 
loiscthecha  767;  aithleanda  loisc- 
theacha  3139. 

loitim  I  hurt,  wound.  Pret.  3  s.  rolot 
784,  roloit  Eg. ;  p.p.  co  raloitteadh 
1237. 

lorn  bare.  Kogob  a  oenchendaig  luim 
586. 

londas  m.  indignation,  rage  19,  4595. 

lond-letrad  m.  fierce  ravening.  Amal 
leoman  londletarthi  2530,  londleth- 
an  letartha  Eg. 

lond-mer  raging  and  mad  2846,  2906, 
3207,  4515. 

londraigim  I  make  brilliant.  Pf.  p.  3  s. 
rolondraigid  1269. 

long  f.  ship.  Nar-ba  long  luchtmar 
1960;  ac  diten  a  luingi  1979;  ac 
dichur  uaind  na  luingi  sin  1973;  a 
seolchrand  na  luingi  sin  1970 ;  asin 
luing  1945,  1968;  deg  dainib  na 
lunga  sin  2001,  5;  each  leth  don 
luing  1996;  adchondcadar  in  luing 
1939,  1962;  a.p.  na  longa  1965 ;  asa 
longaib  1884. 

longach /uZZ  of  ships  308. 

longes  f.  voyage.  Ar  loingis  iEnias 
4038. 

longport  m.  (1)  harbour,  (2)  camp,  (3) 
palace.  (2)  Co  longphort  4296;  do- 
chum a  longpuirt  4474,  (sic  corr.) 
2976,  3974,  lonccphuirt  Eg. ;  isna 
longportaib  1726, 1367,  2188;  rogab- 
ad  leosum  andsin  longphort  2734; 
ar  ngabail  a  longphuirt  daib  2739; 
dar  doirrsib  a  longfuirt  4055;  ar 
larmedon  in  longphuirt  2750;  don 
longphort  sin  3889  ;  ar  longfort  4041 ; 
do  dul  isin  longphort  4307;  no  co 
rangadar  a  longphort  4300 ;  co  long- 
phortaib  3865 ;  ar  loncphortaibh 
3873. 

lór  enough,  sufficient.  Is  lór  ar-lenais 
3794 ;  7  is  lor  lat  4374 ;  is  lor  indh- 
isim  1666;  is  leor  1667;  is  lor  sin 
da  indisi  1825  ;  is  lor  dit  bith  i  socra 
2140;  is  lor  lat  4374;  is  lor  lindi 
1771 ;  is  lor  do  gresacht  2286;  is  lór 
leici  3648;  ba  lór  am  do  Gregaib 
4839 ;  nir-ba  lor  lesna  curadaib  2367 ; 
is  lor  uathad  do  thabairt  a  n-air 
3928 ;  is  lor  an  coseur  rugsamar 
3966. 

lorg  staff.  7  a  lorg  aicci  168;  nir-gab 
lorg  1679 ;  lorga  adbulmora  1565. 

los  sake,  part,  behalf:  a  los  prep,  with 
gen.  Asa  los  1015 ;  as  do  los-so  1056; 
a  los  Tid  3343 ;  a  los  a  fir  1342.    Wi. 

loscad    burniiuj.     Arna    loscad    3146, 


394 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


4281;  do  loscad  1707,  4587,  4626, 
4760,  4784,  485.5;  do  loscud  1738, 
2152,  2247,  4587;  da  loacad  4105, 
4294;  ag  loiscib4624,  loiscthib  Eg. 

loscend  toad.  Ilolot  loscend  in  n-ingen 
sin  785;  delba  loiscend  batar  and- 
side  3035;  do  igmaigib  nathrach  7 
loiscend  1485.  Loscann  Wi.,  lois- 
ceann  Din. 

lot  act  of  wounding  295.  Co  na  ruacht 
lot  2532 ;  is  lór  leici  na  Gregaigh  do 
lot  3648. 

lua,  lue  a  kick  259.    Wi. 

lúad  m.  bestirring  oneself  465.  Lúud 
Wb.  2bl. 

luaide  lead.  Mill  lanraora  luaidi  4112, 
2505,  2700. 

luaimnech  (1)  winged,  nimble  495,  586. 
(2)  v.  lémnech.    TSh. 

luaitherda  ashen,  composed  of  ashes, 
dusty  1730. 

luaithred  m.  ashes,  dust  1816;  no 
eo-ro  luaithred  2256 ;  co  roerig  a 
luaithred  2933;  co  ma  luaithred 
2863;  g.s.  ré  lansalchar  an  luaith- 
ridh  1092,  3458;  'ma  luaithred 
2259.    C.C. 

lúamairi  flying,  galloping.  For  1.  4504 
Eg.    Tbc. 

luamaire  m.  pilot  2004,  2044. 

luamairecht  f.  pilotage,  guiding  2547. 

lúas,  lúathas  m.  speed,  swiftness.  Ar 
luas  2434;  ara  luas  doretiiad  2464. 

lúath  sicift,  quick.  Saignen  luath 
lasamain  1084;  co  luath  4361; 
equat.  luaithither  re  sseigid  3429 ; 
1.  re  sidi  2402,  2445;  compar.  ni 
luaithi  no  sooner  1747. 

lúath-aband  f .  sicift  river.  Luathaibne 
1748. 

lúath-echtacri  swift  at  fell  deeds  3556. 

luatn-glasta  swift-locked.  Lama  1. 
2172. 

luath-imert  f.  quick  wielding,  rapid 
plying.  Ac  luathimirt  a  sceith 
3421. 

lúath-indsaigim  I  make  a  quick  ap- 
proach or  attack.  Pret.  3  p.  roluath- 
indsaigsed  2881. 

lúath-marbad  m.  a  quick  desjwtch. 
Ke  lanailgius  a  lanmarbtha  3154. 

lúb  loop,  bend.  Sduagh  luib  moir  di 
62.    TSh. 

lúbach  crafty,  compar.  lubak/i  3342  E. 

luchair  glittering  1455.    Acall. 

lucht  m.  (1)  people  1562;  is  amlaid  sin 
robadarinlucht  sin  3000;  grad  lochia 
na  Teibi  1073 ;  fa  tren  a  tres  an 
lochia  sin  4086,  4868  ;  don  lucht  sin 
1164,  869;  re  lucht  1284;  iter  an 
lucht  sin  4254.  (2)  crew.  Do  lucht 
na  lunga  1947,  2010. 


luchtaireacht,  luchtmoracht  Eg.,  f. 
burden-bearing,  being  well  laden  466; 
taking  food  out  of  thecal,/  run ,  St  Mol. , 
Aisl.  Luchtmhaireacht  capacious- 
ness Din. 

luchtmar  well-laden,  well-manned,  ca- 
pacious. Long  1.  228,  305,  1939, 
1960.    TSh. 

lugai-de  the  less.   Lugu  less,  v.  bee. 

luib  f.  herb,  plant.  Kachuir  luibi  1155 ; 
do  luibib  barrglana  2211. 

luirech  f.  mail  coat,  hauberk.  Luireach 
trebraid  2695;  nir-bo  din  dono 
luirech  3286;  rogob  a  luirig  1487; 
tuc  A.  luirig  do  2571,  3935;  berna  a 
luirigi  4893;  ar  letrad  a  luirighi 
3676;  a. p.  na  a  luirecha  d'  imur- 
chur  1755,  1956;  luireacha  drol- 
manacha  1273;  na  luirecha  lan- 
chumga  3518.    L.  lorlca.    C.C. 

luna  the  moon  4698. 

lus  herb.  A. p.  lossaliac  eyebrights  479. 
Lns-na-leac  Hogan,  O'E. 

liith  m.  agile  strength,  vigour.  Na 
gabad  luth  láma  do  3740;  robo 
thairmesc  luith  3488;  ac  fromad  a 
luith  2442 ;  ba  do  luth  and  fhir  sin 
2433. 

lúthmar  active,  powerful,  impetuous 
1997,  3499 ;  ech  lutlimar  lanalaind 
4443. 

ma  if.   Ma  rofhitir  3490. 

mac  m.  son,  boy.  Is  i  mathair  in  meic 
sin  1540;  do  marbad  a  meic  fein 
1861 ;  i  cinta  mo  meic  2126,  2216, 
2259;  v.s.  a  meic  2233;  n.p.  meic 
1347,  1844;  7  a  mic-si  coslan  4198; 
mathair  na  mac  4574 ;  mo  mic  4560 ; 
do  maccaib  1458,  9;  do  mic  4592; 
a.p.  Eg.  macu  1866;  mic  1267;  v.p. 
a  macu  4395 ;  a  macu  4565. 

mac  samla  the  like.  Imsnim  a  m.  3622, 
3726;  a  macsamlai  in  cluichi  sin 
2192 ;  nir  eusindiu  rim  a  mac  samla 
3643. 

macaem,  macoem  m.  a  youth  531, 
3611;  in  maccoem  1786;  ac  iarraid 
in  maccaim  2094 ;  don  maccaem 
2520;  roopair-sium  in  maccoem  2524; 
n.p.  macaim  525;  maccaim  1372, 
1912 ;  don  maccami  sin  2075 ;  a  mna 
7  a  macaim  their  wives  and  children 
4290 ;  maccaim  robega  2265 ;  mna  7 
maccaiim  4902. 

mac-alla  echo.   Co  roibi  a  m.  4536. 

macán  m.  little  son,  little  boy.  In 
macan-sa  1780;  in  macan  sin  1789; 
maccan  1539. 

mach,  v.  a-mach. 

machtad  m.  wonder,  surprise  2511, 
machtnugud  Eg. 


395 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


machtnugad  m.  wonder,  astonishment 
290,  945. 

mad  if  it  be.  Mad  misi  as  for  me  1866 ; 
mail  gusan  ndiu  even  till  to-day  2244. 
V.  is. 

ma-dála  about,  concerning  1703.  Cf. 
im-dala  Laws. 

máel  bald,  hornless,  headless.  Cor-ba 
taman  msel  8962. 

máel-tamnaigim  I  mutilate,  truncate. 
P.p.  romaeltamnaigit  2826,  rotam- 
naighit  Eg.    C.C. 

mag  m.  plain.  Cach  mag  4817;  robai 
in  mag  1639;  rochomlas  an  mag 
firalaind  4283 ;  a.s.  ar  an  magh  931, 
967;  ralinsad  an  mag  4460,  4850; 
arin  mag  1740 ;  ar  an  mag  mor  reidh 
4744;  g.s.  i  cind  in  muigi  2311,  2347; 
do  taibb  in  muighi  3836;  d'  ingelt- 
radb  feoir  in  muigi  sin  909;  isin 
muig  4853;  i  muicb  2150;  forin 
moig  mor  rcid  2315;  a.p.  na  moigi 
901,  1816;  maigi  736;  moigi  reidi 
289,  2340;  rosoillsig  luna  maigi 
4698 ;  re  aitrebh  magb  na  Tebe  3859  ; 
isna  moigib  773;  ar  moigib  1325; 
dar  moigib  2276 ;  do  muigib  2633 ; 
i  muigib  2920;  dona  moigib  reidi 
3505. 

magadh  m.  a  mocking,  reproach  p.  xvii. 

mag-sliab  sloping pla in.  Ar  maigshleb- 
ib  501. 

maidim  I  burst,  break  (intrans.).  Pret. 
3  p.  romuidsed  2325 ;  pi.  3  s.  rame- 
baid  1294 ;  rameabaid  ( =  rameamaid) 
do  Gregaib  4292;  domebaid  1248; 
romebaid  4867,  799,821 ;  v.n.maidm: 
roena  romadmand  3474,  4867. 

maigh-réidh  having  a  level  plain,  level 
35. 

main  f.  treasure.  Tairbert  set  7  maine 
2408;  seoid  7  maine  2465,  2543; 
p.  xvii. 

maise  f.  beauty,  honour.  Ba  maisi 
leiss  4169,  4221 ;  is  mor  am  maisi 
dit  3211 ;  nir  miad  7  nir  maisi  re 
mac  3218. 

maisech  beautiful,  handsome  508,  1437. 

maith  good.  (1)  Adj .  milid  maithi  1445; 
is  maitb  lium-sa  I  prefer  3559;  maith 
tea  Hum  4539 ;  a  rigu  maithi  2709. 
(2)  Noun:  dena-su  maith  571,  1371; 
maith,  a  ingen  well,  girl  4559;  corn- 
par,  cer-ua  ferrdi  leis  3635,  4746 ;  ni 
ferrdi  1006 ;  ua  ferrde  delbh  an  gille 
sin  3744 ;  comma  fearrdi  439 ;  nir 
ferrdi  leisin  dis  sin  3977 ;  is  ferr  duit 
4167,  2185  ;  ba  ferr  leo  a  ndianbadud 
ina  bith  3516 ;  ba  ferr  leis  do  Gregaib 
3923;  coma  ferr  leis  4336;  fa  ferr 
dothuit  andsin  do  Gregaib  4083 ;  rop 
ferr  comaltus  440. 


maithe  f.  goodness.  Ni  hair  mhaithi 
3857.    Wi. 

maithem  forgiveness.  Dobertha-sa 
maithim  damsa  1056 ;  tabair  maith- 
em n-anocail  give  quarter  2546  ;  gab 
maithim  n-anacail  1030 ;  tuc  maith- 
em n-anacuil  3557;  n.s.  ni  fhidir 
an  m.  n-anacail  roshirfed  4013. 

maithi  nobles,  worthies  1109,  4611, 
4887 ;  becan  da  maithib  uodein  1895 ; 
rotindesnaig  I.  maithi  3855;  do 
maithib  na  nG.  4345;  do  m.  na  T. 
3554. 

maithim  I  forgive.  Fut.  3  s.  ni  maith- 
fea  4663. 

maithius  m.  goodness.  Nach  iad  do- 
chaith  a  maithius  4582;  g.s.  imat 
gacha  maithiusa  1836;  ac  denam 
maithiusa  1526,  1790. 

malairt  f .  destruction,  change,  exchange 
89,  148. 

mall  slow,  tardy.  Co  mallamertnech 
sloicly  and  weakly  3042,  co  mall 
mertnech  Eg. 

mallachtach  accursed  447. 

mar  as  with  ace.  Mar  scoith-semair 
3365  ;  no  mar  lenid  3366 ;  mar  misi 
4532;  mar  thusu 677, 3378, 4597;  mar 
so  1020. 

(1)  as  with  indie.  Mar  dabadar 
isin  comfheidm  catha  sin  2814  ;  mar 
dabui  ban  samla  sin  3141,  3159; 
mar  damarbad  in  curaid  3274 ;  mar 
doloisc  C.  4294.  (2)  as  if  with  ipf. 
subj.  Mar  bad  in  uair  sin  nobedh 
1257 ;  mar  bad  ar  marbad  a  hathar 
robeth  1934;  mar  bad  he  in  la 
bratha  tisad  2811. 

maraim  I  remain,  abide,  live.  Pres. 
subj.  3 p.  co  mairet  sin  2184;  fut. 
3 p.  merdait  2919  with  affixed  pro., 
meraidh  Eg.;  mértuit  L.U.  35a  33; 
v.n.  arna  marthain  4735.  Cf.  gébdait 
P.H.  6079,  Wb.  26a  8;  P.H.  ibdait 
6901. 

marb  (1)  dead.  An  mac  marb  2119; 
i  n-onoir  in  mic  mairb-sea  2184. 
(2)  dead  body.  Co  riacht  a  marb 
dochum  talman  2855.  (3)  tlie  dead. 
atcim  mairb  truaga  na  T.  1677. 

marbaim  I  kill,  slay.  Pres.  rel.  ni 
cath  marbas  sind  Í770;  pres.  subj. 
dep.  Is.  co  romarbar  3797,  2126; 
ipv.  2  p.  marbaid  1858,  2108;  fut.  1  s. 
mairbfed  1867;  3  s.  rosmuirfe  3722; 
nach  mairbfed  sib  1866;  ipf.  subj. 
3  p.  co  marbdais  2302;  2  fut.  3  s. 
rosmarbfedh  3834 ;  3  p.  co  mairbfidis 
1880;  pret.  Is.  romarbus  3258;  do- 
marbus-sa  1124;  nir-marbus  1824; 
2  s.  domarbais-si  1026;  3  s.  romarb 
1696.  1890;  ramarb  878;  rot-marbh 


396 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


3679;  ar-marb  3972 ;  dep.  romarbh- 
ustar  809,  908, 1571;  1  p.  ax-marbsa- 
rnair-ne  4839 ;  o  romarbsamar  2029 ; 
3  p.  romarbsad  1823,  2052;  nomarb- 
sadl955,  rus-marbsat  2303 ;  p.  pies, 
p.  fut.  3s.  do  neoch  marbfer  dib  1708 ; 
muirbfer  sind  1903 ;  2  fut.  3  s.  ro- 
muirbfithea  2116;  romairbfidbe3886; 
ipf.  3  p.  romarbdais  2307;  p.p.  3  s. 
romarbad  1417, 1897, 2472 ;  ar-marb- 
ad  1894;  romarbaid  2308;  domarb- 
ad  4783 ;  3  p.  no  gur-marbtha  p.  xvii; 
p.p.p.  marbtha  853;  v.n.  7  a  ruarbad 
doib  893;  da  marbad  1525,  3359, 
4833 ;  do  rocbtain  a  marbtha  3898  ; 
arna  marbad  1325,  1907;  do  marbad 
1861 ;  aca  marbad  2076. 

marbda  dead.    Migne  m.  4701. 

marcach  m.  horseman,  rider.  Atorchair 
an  marcach  960,  2349,  2905;  i  co- 
imitecht  in  marcaig  mormenmnaig 
1479;  cen  marcach  fuirri  2401; 
rothrascair  marcacha  4204. 

marc-shluag  m.  cavalry  1607,  2148; 
do  marcsluag  2251. 

már-longes  í.  great  voyage.  A  mar- 
loinges  4036/ 

mar-óen  along  with  2228,  2231,  8, 
3544,  foraon  Eg.,  3683;  maraen  ré 
1225,  1410;  maraen  ris  4611,  1469, 
3997,  4298;  maraen  a  roteilcthi  952; 
maraen  rium  4670,  4061. 

marthanach  lasting,  enduring  210. 

mass  f.  a  mass.  Asin  mais  3082. 
C.C. 

maten,  matan  f.  morning.  O  thainic 
in  maten  1362;  isin  maidin  1210, 
3998;  isin  maitin  2257;  co matin  1921. 

máthair  f.  mother.  Eop  i  S.  mathair 
Baich  1720;  dar-bo  mathair  Dri- 
opi  1003;  da  mathair  1537;  n.p. 
maithreacha  1525,  4455. 

me,  mé  /,  me.  Damad  coscrach  mé 
4383;  me  fein  1071,  1252;  misi 
1846;  7  misi  4719;  idberad-sa  me 
fen  4499;  mé  1050;  o  thucais-siu 
mi  1352 ;  milid  mar  misi  3212 ;  ro- 
gab  ecla  me  1899;  tucad  me  2056; 
roailgius-sa  me  fen  2955. 

meag-eornu  barley-whey  p.  xv. 

mebal,  mebol  f.  shame,  disgrace  3409. 

meblach  shameful,  shameless,  treacher- 
ous 887,  2235.    TSh. 

medar  discourse,  utterance,  jollity  643; 
o  'dchualaid  sestan  7  medair  4652; 
ac  saithin  a  medar  3240.  Meadbair 
.i.  caint  no  urlabra  O'Cl.  Tbc, 
Thes.  Pal.  11.  29J. 

medar-chodaltaech  overcome  with  slap 
3942. 

medar-glórjoí/oiís  talk  3843. 


médithir  as  larqe  as.  M.  re  hArcail 
2555.  Métitber  Wi. 

medon  middle,  midst.  Ua  medon  don 
lo  1741 ;  a  medon  lai  1850 ;  ar  medon 
767,  4567. 

medónda  middle,  central  2704. 

medraim  /  disturb,  excite.  Pret.  3  s. 
co  ramedair  700;  pf.  pass.  3  p.  ro- 
medraid  1149.   Cf.  The. 

méide  neck,  trunk.  Arna  bi'min  da 
méidbe818;  n.p.  rotamnaighit  med- 
edha  2826  Eg.;  romaeltamnaigit 
meidi  2826,  mededha  Eg.  C.C, 
Fian. 

meirge  rust,  rustiness.  A  meirgi  7  a 
migne  1270.  From  meirg ;  v.  mer- 
gech  C.C. 

mell  m.  lump,  globular  mass.  Ina  mill 
2196  ;  a. p.  mill  lanmora  luaidi  4112, 
2700;  co  mellaib  lantroma  2505. 

menfudh  gladness  3842.  Menbud 
Laws,  iv.  298. 

mengach  treacherous.  Ara  siairmeng- 
aig4318.    Wi. 

menic  frequent,  often.  Co  minic  1223, 
1922,  2285,  3628;  ua  minic  lesi  7  re 
P.  1935 ;  compar.  ba  menci  3474. 

menma  f .  mind.  Koerig  menma  1424 ; 
rob  adannad  menman  1163 ;  is  é  met 
na  menman  4220;  met  mo  menman 
432,  1342;  ar  menmain  1843,  2595, 
4330,  4416  ;  ana  menmain  888 ;  n.p. 
menmanda  1149,  2607,  3076;  niét- 
aigidh  bar  menmanna  3878. 

menmnach  spirited.  Minbad  in  milid 
menmnach  4073;  fer  rigda  romen- 
mnach  957;  morm.  961, 1998;  milid 
maithi  menmnacha  1445,  4295. 

mer  mad,  reckless,  furious  1998,  2904 
mear  527,  944,  3208;  fer  mer  995 
leoman  mer  1036;  daine  mera  1289 
cid  tra  acht  na  bad  mera  milid  in 
chatha  3062. 

mér  m.  finger.    As  a  meraib  4473. 

meraigecht  f.  excitement,  mad  racing. 
Ar  lanm.  4504.    Tbc. 

meraigim  I  excite,  confuse,  lead  astray. 
Pret.  3  s.  7  romearaig  (sic  corr.)  3075 ; 
v.n.  merugud,  v.  next  word. 

meraigtbe  devious,  astray.  Air  caé 
meraigthi  4650;  g.s.  of  merugud 
deviation.   Wi.,  TSh. 

merbeallach  random,  haphazard.  Ar 
miri  7  ar  merbeallaig  986 ;  from  im- 
roll,  im-ro-la  false  throw,  error. 
Tbc.  896,  cf.  mearthaill  Din. 

merge,  merce  m.  standard,  banner. 
A.p.  mergeda  1407,  mergedha  ardu 
Eg.;  2653,  4615,  4867;  da  mergedaib 
2801.    C.C. 

mer-glan  joí/oms  and  bright  742. 


397 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


mertnecli  iveak,  exhausted.  N.p.  ruert- 
necha  617,  1886,  2978,  4257;  eo 
trom  trenmeirtnecb  3904,  5;  co 
hoband  mertnech  2570.   C.  C. 

mesc  drunk.    7  siat  mesca  617. 

mescaim  I  mix,  disturb.  Pret.  3  s.  co 
roruesc  700;  p.p.  romescad  a  men- 
ma  3368. 

mesc-buaidirthe  confused  and  troubled. 
Is  de  sin  fa  m.  int  eenacb  2456. 

mescda  drunk,  intoxicated  1885,  3942. 

mesnecb  courage.  Ar  mesnig  2556. 
McB. 

mesnugud  m.  encouraging.  Ac  m.  3750. 

met  f.  greatness,  size,  strength.  Is  é 
méd  na  menman  rus-gab  4220,  432; 
ua  badbul  met  7  miri  2521;  robai 
do  met  tedma  539 ;  ré  rued  a  graine 
4216;  ri  met  na  naire  725,  4051; 
a  met  da  cbaitbead  1644;  ar  met 
1940,  4128,  2997;  a  meit  na  miled 
sin  2353;  ara  met  2486;  ar  met  is 
inasmuch  as  it  is  1783. 

meta  cowardly.   Dee  meta  4257.    C.C. 

metacht  f.  cowardice  2727.    C.C. 

métaigim  I  enlarge.  Ipv.  2  pi.  métaig- 
idb  3878;  v.n.  ua  medugud  705; 
do  medugud  airecbtais  1600. 

mím.?»oi/í/i.  Cocendnoimis507,1723. 

mlad  honour.  Nir  miadb  leó  they  did 
not  deign,  disdained,  made  light  of 
3115,  4868;  ni  miadb  lium  4259; 
nir  miad  ri  3217,  3779,  4625;  nir 
miad  leis  3214,  3490 ;  conar-ba  miad 
na  maisi  leis  4221 ;  nir-ba  miad  les 
4365 ;  nir-ba  miad  re  lucbt  2010 ;  ni 
bi  miad  le  2282. 

mian  m.  wish,  desire.  Ua  be  mian 
1545. 

mias  f.  table,  plate.  Mias  adbulmor 
2469,  2479 ;  truma  na  mesi  sin  2486 ; 
cluicbi  méisi  2469;  rocbuir  in  mes 
2475,  2487;  gebid  in  meis  moir-sea 
2481;  rocbuired  a  miasa  484;  ar 
miasaib  467.   L.  mensa. 

mí-bráithir  m.  false  brother.  A  mi- 
braitbir  4551,  Eg.  mignimaicb.  L. 
perfide  Theb.  xi.  586. 

mí-bríathrach  false,  false-speaking, 
perfidious.  A  Ioib  is  mibriatbracb 
rouadais  rim  2242 ;  do  mnui  meblaig 
mibbriathraig  2235.  L.  perfide 
Iuppiter  Theb.  vi.  197. 

mi-cnluach  ill-famed  255. 

mi-chomairlech  ill -counselling  887. 
Mio-corbairle,  Din. 

mi-cnuirtecb  uncourtly.  Arasiairmeng- 
aig  mlchuirtig  4318. 

midach  m.  stallion.  Cosin  midacb  bui 
fae  3195;  ré  miri  na  midacb  4815. 
C.C. 


midemain  contemplating.     Ac  m.   na 

n-ingen  733.    C. 
mid-láecb  m.  coward.     Ar  midlaecb 

3643. 
midláechda  cowardly.     Co   mertnecb 

m.  3905. 
midlocnus  cowa rdice  2727.    C.C. 
mid-medón  the  very  middle.  Co  mmid- 

medon  269.   C.C. 
mí-gné  f.  unseemliness,  ugliness  1270; 

adcbondairc  an  migne  marbda  4700. 

TSh. 
mí-gním  m.  misdeed,   evil  act.     Leic 

senur  in  m.  2130;    tred  mignimaib 

féin  4593. 
mile  f.  thousand.    7  mili  saegdecb  'na 

farrad  2656  miledba  soigdecha  Eg. ; 

tri  mile  1397;  ceitbri  mili  1421. 
mileta  soldierly,  warlike  1289,   1484, 

2531,  3555,  3875,  4546;  trenmileta 

3564. 
milid  m.  soldier  548, 1095 ;  'man  milid 

1437;  n.p.  milid  1429;  milid  maitbi 

1445;  re  mormesci  na  milead  717, 

1035,  1525;    airm  na  milead  1467, 

2353 ;  rotinoil  a  mileda815 ;  rofacbad 

and  mileda  3860. 
millim  I  ruin,  destroy.   Ipv.  2s.  namill 

1043;  2  p.  millid  2144;  pf.  3  p.  ar- 

mibset'p.  xvii ;  v.n.  aea  milliud  547 ; 

re  milliud  1063;    da  milliud  1738, 

2111. 
minaigim  I  dwindle  away.   P.p.p.  ba 

minaigthi   mur    a    catbracb   umpu 

4846. 
mín-álaind  delicate  and  beautiful  508, 

931. 
min-crand  m.  small  tree,  shrub,  sap- 
ling.  Os  mincrandaib  firbeca  2563. 
min-dáine  little  folks,   children  525, 

1268,  2643 ;  ider  mnaib  7  mindainib 

4214.    Tbc. 
mind-rig  kingly  diadem  854. 
mine  unless  witb  subj.     Min  bad  an 

milid  4072 ;  min  bad  dei  do  dinguail 

4287;    acbt    mine    chluinead    407; 

acbt  muna  rucadb  832 ;  mina  bedis 

623 ;  mana  beidis  4219 ;  mina  tbuca 

dit   2758;    muna    derna    A.    1310; 

mene   betb   M.    3170;    mani   tbair- 

miscdis  na  dei  in  n-urcbur   3264; 

mina      tboirmisced     Teiss     uimpi 

4800. 
min-glan  delicate  and  bright  2653 ;  do 

mnaib  minglana  4440. 
Minituir    m.f.   Minotaur.     Dealb    an 

minituir  4826,  delbb  na   minadure 

Eg. 
mín-réid./íne  and  smooth.   Dar  muigib 

minreidbi  4352 ;  dar  moigib  minreidi 

2276,  2340. 


398 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


min-scothath  having  delicate  flowers, 

fine -flower  i)  35. 
mir  piece.    iSrianmireand  bridle  pieces 

3064.    Tbc. 
mi-ratbmar  unlucky  447. 
mírbail,   mirbuil    f.    marvel,    miracle. 

Tre  mirbail  mi  ndéi  1626. 
mírbulta  marvellous  2670. 
mire  f.  rage,  fury.    N.s.  met  7  miri 

2521 ;  ar  mire  986 ;  ré  miri  4815. 
mír-mór  having  ample  parts,  of  large 

proportions  447. 
mirr  myrrh  2213. 
mirti  myrtles.    Mirti  mora  1564. 
mí-rún   f.   ill-will,     malice.   Mirun    7 

aninni  mor  aiei  2146. 
miscais   m.    hatred.     Is    miscais    lim 
3311 ;  ba  hadbul  tra  misgais  4432 ; 
ger-sa  miscais  cos  aniu   sib  4565 ; 
ca  misgais  1041;    ua  m.  leo  1601; 
ba  miscais  am  let  3389 ;  g.s.  adand- 
adh  miseaisi  1101;   a.s.  cuimnigid 
in  miscais  1859 ;  roairgsetar  a  misc- 
ais co  mor  2206. 
miscnecn  hateful  962. 
mi-thapad  mishap,  ill  luck,  g.s.  as  adj. 

pp.  XV,  xvi. 
mo  my.    Ar  mo  menmain  1847;   mo 
bancheli  fen  2953 ;  in'  athair  1825, 
6 ;  co  tech  m'  athar  1900 ;  m'  ainm 
fen  1827. 
mo  cm  well  is   he  born.    A  petrified 
phrase   3  s.    of    cinim,    meaning  a 
blessing   or  blessed  4148;    7   is  ma 
chin  da  4393.   Cf.  Brigit  nime  flatha 
ferr   cinis:    Brigit   most    blessed   of 
Heaven's  Kingdom.   Hy.  v.  4. 
moch-thráth  early  hour,  early,  at  dawn 
1211 ;    mochrach    3998 ;    co   moch 
4623. 
molad  m.  praising.    Ni  head  molad  a 
n-ech  2984 ;  'ga  molad  1806 ;  ac  m. 
in  gilli  2491,  2590,  3750. 
mong  f.  mane.   Gor-erig  a  mong  2392 ; 
co  moing  cairn  2280. 
,  j  monuar,  monuaran  alas!,  woe's  me! 
r-  I       p.  xvi.    C.C. 

'  mór,  már  (1)  great.  Mar  726;  co 
mor  1014,  4330;  compar.  is  mo 
doberad  U.  1057;  as  mó  1192;  is 
mo  rocreitea  doib  1636 ;  baino\3728; 
is  mo  is  feidmnert  2481 ;  mad  móo 
a  clú  let  3781 ;  nl  mó  trá  4469 ;  ni 
mo  na  Ioib  badein  3386;  ni  bhus 
mhó  3798. 

móidi,   mó-de  the  more  621.     Ni 

móite  807;  comad  moidi  onoir  ind 

n-adnocail  2580 ;  fa  moidi  fich  fergi 

2720;    ua  moidi  fere  A.  3789. 

(2)  much.   Is  mór  do  dheibh  3609. 

mór-adbul    great    and    huge.      Amal 


bleidmil    moradbul    3519 ;   co   mor- 
adbul  4599. 
mór-ainbthenach  very  stormy,  tempes- 
tuous.   Im  chairrgib  im  mara  mor- 
ainbthenaig  2006. 
mór-brethir  f,  great  word,  boast,  chal- 
lenge.  Ar  in  m.  4283. 
mór-chalma  greatly  daring  878. 
mór-chol  f.  great  sin.    A  haithle  na 

morchol  138. 
mór-chumachtach  great  and  poicerful 

4252. 
mórdálach  hauqhty,  magnificent  962, 

2904.    Din. 
mór-dígal  f.  ample  vengeance.    Gan  a 
mordigail  air  without  taking  ample 
vengeance  on  him  for  them  2550. 
mór-gním  great  deed.    Mórgnima  1043. 
mór-grádach  much  loved  349. 
mór-menma  magnanimity,  high  spirit. 
7  mormenma  na  fer  mor  1113;  ni 
leigeand   am  mo   mormenma  dam 
4226. 
mór-menmnacb.    great    minded,   mag- 
nanimous 387,  528,  944,  1095,  1437, 
2709,  3036,  3669,  4008. 
mór-mesce      f.     great     intoxication, 

drunkenness.   Re  mormesci  717. 
mór-muinter  f.  great  retinue.   Ar  nert- 

ad  a  niormuntiri  2806. 
mór-nemnech  very  virulent.   Da  milid 

mornemnecha  3975. 
mór-nert  great  power  4062. 
mór-nertad   m.    great    strengthening. 

Ach  a  mornertad  4795. 
mór-olc      dire     evil.       Derbairdeada 

moruile  1228. 
mór-réid  great   and    level.     An   mag 

morreid  4460. 
morrigu  f.  witch,  lamia.   Don  morrig- 

ain  88.    Thes.  Pal.  n.  2,  6;  Tbc. 
mór-socnraide  f.  great  army.   Eoeirge- 
dar  an  morsochraidi  sin  4814 ;  cona 
morsochraidi  4837. 
mór-tindesnach  very  rapid,  using  great 

haste  4068. 
mosglad  m.  an  awakening  p.  xvii. 
motbaigim    I  feel,   observe,  perceive. 
Pret.  2  s.  romothaigis-sin  2690  ;  3  p. 
romothaigsed  4046. 
Moyse  Muse.    O  na  Moyisib  2676 ;  dona 

Muisib  3197. 
muc  f.  pig  451. 
mucha   f.   earliness.    I  mucha   do  lo 

2270.  Wi. 
mudaiglm  I  destroy.  P.p.  ait  ar- 
mudaiged  614;  romudaiged  2473; 
p.p. p.  mudaigthi  854 ;  v.n.  m.  mud- 
ugud  destroying,  destruction  86,  90, 
149,  358 ;  da  m.  2133 ;  arna  m.  1912; 
gan  a  m.  2051. 


399 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


muilend  a  mill.   Cloch  muilind  1668. 

muime  f.  nurse.  I  rricht  a  mumi  778; 
agiarraid  chithi  a  muimi  1788;  g.p. 
a  hochtaib  a  muirned  526.    P.H. 

muin  neck,  back.  Ara  muin  1551, 
2695,  4010;  for  a  muin  3577,  4005. 

muinchenn  surface,  expanse.  Tar 
muincbind  rnara  14.    C.C. 

muinél  neck,   Ina  munel  3188. 

muin-torc  m.  necklace  1064,  4094; 
muntorc  755,  774,  1508;  a.s.  mun- 
torc  805,  7,  1505;  g.s.  in  muntoirc 
784,  792,  827;  dealb  an  muntuirc 
4826. 

muir  m.f.  sea.  N.s.  in  muir  1852, 1944, 
2160;  dea  in  mara  2282,  2667;  dei  in 
mara  (sic  corr.)  3573,  4906 ;  na  tonda 
taebuaine  in  mara  critbainbtlienaig 
3406 ;  do  learaib  in  mara  1939,  2006 ; 
tond  mara  moir  3093  ;  7  eirigh  imlan 
docnum  na  mara  3795;  isin  muir 
moir  1918 ;  arin  muir  1834 ;  risin 
muir  duasanaig  turcarthaig  4470 ; 
ar  muir  1075 ;  co  muir  Kepalia 
4905  ;  etir  in  muir  n-ard  1395,  2604. 

muiride  marine  3520,  3560. 

muirn  f.  clamour.  N.s.  in  muirn  1901 ; 
do  muirn  7  do  medar  locbta  na 
sealga  643 ;  re  m.  716.    C.C. 

muirnech  (1)  beloved  349,  508,  1536. 
(2)  clamorous.    Mer-muirnech  387. 

mullach  m.  top,  summit.  M.  na  cath- 
rach  1090,  4402;  do  m.  an  sleibi  sin 
1198 ;  i  m.  2314 ;  co  mullach  slebi  A. 
2604;  co  mullach  mur  na  cathrach 
4230;  a  mullaigib  tor  7  tiged  4105. 

munter  f.  household,  following  1478, 
1844.  Dorulatar  do  munter  T.  3371 ; 
maithi  a  muinntire  1110,  1123,1421 ; 
dochum  a  muintire  3567 ;  do  muin- 
tir  T.  995,  3976;  do  muntir  3522; 
cona  muntir  3860;  ce  rouatar  a  mná 
7  a  muntera  aca  fastodh  3888 ;  cona 
munteraibh  3876. 

múr  m.  ivall.  Ar  mur  a  chathrach 
2707,  4184;  arin  mur  4269;  gid  tri 
muir  848,  1597;  rodianscaileadar 
mur  n-imeallach  4097;  ar  mur  a 
cathrach  4257;  tar  mur  na  Teibi 
4280 ;  tar  mur  in  baili  4832 ;  rolin- 
sadar  muir  na  cathrach  2643;  tar 
mullach  muir  an  longphuirt  3940; 
co  muraib  na  Teibi  4068,  4073, 
4098;  o  muraib  na  cathrach  4279; 
ar  muraib  ardmoraib  4453 ;  co  mul- 
lach muir  na  cathrach  4230. 

múr  m.  drift.  Ac  dibrucun  in  muir 
uaithib  2004;  v.  smúr.  Cf.  Sc.  a 
smurr  of  rain.   Mn. 

murad  m.  razing.  Do  múrad  a  cath- 
rach 'na  cendaib  4233. 


na  I.  [mi]na  unless.   Na  beidis  4212. 

na,  ipv.  neg.  Na  mill  1043 ;  na  buail 
2285 ;  na  tairr  isin  Teib  4590 ;  na 
benad  do  chol  na  do  chorbad  rind 
4590 ;  na  marbthar  sib  3379  7  na  Eg. 

na  than.  Na  bacur  P.  1439;  ní  mó... 
na  no  more... than  4469;  ni  luaithi... 
na  710  sooner .. .than  776;  ni  mo  na 
3386.    V.  ina. 

na,  nor,  after  a  negative  or.  Co  nar- 
fhéd  a  sciath  d'  imarchur  na  a 
chlaidim  do  chongbail  1034  ;  cert  na 
dligedh  832;  én  na  eathaidi  1220; 
da  fisid  na  da  fireolach  1226 ;  nachu 
(I.  nach  a)  fhir  eolaig  344  ;  dofheimid 
comraind  crichi  na  i'eraind  4411 ;  ni 
thug  nech  dib  guin  na  alad  4477 ;  do 
loscad  na  d'  adlucadh  4587,  4784; 
do  loscad  ná  do  lesubad  4760. 

na,  nach  negative  relative.  Cach  flaith- 
ius  na  ba  feidil  841;  o  na*fuarus 
nech  2054 ;  na  hinada  nach  raibhi 
usci  riam  roime  ann  the  places  in 
which  water  had  nercr  been  before 
3617  ;  nach  iad  dochaith  4581;  Langa 
na  traigend  ri  tart  na  re  teasbach 
1781 ;  nach  denad  ni  ar  deib  na  ar 
dainib  1304 ;  ar  inad  na  fuilet  apaigi 
4856 ;  air  sligid  nach  seithénadh  893 ; 
nach  tabrad  fregra  904  ;  co  na  faghad 
986;  na  fedad  1490;  co  nach  foill- 
sigend  én  1219;  co  nnach  cuiread 
1257;  na  hindised  air  1863  ;  arbithin 
na  dianscailed  7  na  dluiged  3014; 
cid  nam-leig-sea  ort  3494. 

nach  interrogative  expecting  the  an- 
swer '  yes, '  L.  nonne  ?  Nach  faiceann 
tusa  842  ;  nach  cualabair  1860;  nach 
nar  daib  3223 ;  nach  mebal  daib  3408. 

naidm  bargain,  covenant,  espousal.  Ar 
naidm  I.  do  3202.    v.n.  of  naiscim. 

náimtide  hostile.  P.  naimdidi  200, 
642 ;  an  fer  naimdidi  888. 

náir  shameful.  Ua  nair  leis-sium  a  oige 
3882;  is  nair  duit  rigi  7  flaithius  gus 
aniu  agat  4531;  is  nair  duit-si  1062. 

náire,  náre  f.  shame.  Ar  met  a  naire 
138;  ri  met  na  naire  481,  725. 

náire,  náeire,  nóere  m.  shipman, sailor. 
G.p.  amal  nuall  naked  1795,  Eg. 
nouiredha.    C.C,  Trip.,  O'Br. 

náirech  shamefaced,  modest  723,  1373. 

naiscim  I  bind.    Pret.  3  s.  donaisc  652. 

náma  m.  enemy.  Ataid  bar  namaid  da 
bar  n-indsaigi  4075  ;  ba  miscais  let 
mo  namait-sea  3389  ;  airm  do  namat 
3683. 

namá  only,  merely  1381,  1460,  1929, 
4078. 

nár  ashamed.  Ua  ronar  les  301 ;  is 
nar  limsa  561. 


4OO 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


Nasalisation:  ere  da  danic  3297;  na 
nenmait-ni  (=na  ndenmait-ni)  490, 
1619,  2421 ;  ar  gur  (=  iar  n-cur)  1036  ; 
gusaniu(  =  gusandiu)  4531,  r.indiu; 
im-n-astad  (=  im-b-astad)  2333 ;  as 
ritsu  as  dingrnala  Hum  tacbar  4260; 
i  nningnaib  4167;  as  dig  4683;  a 
deirci  1002 ;  aga  dimchillad  4212 ;  a 
dorchair  4343;  risin  muir  duasanaig 
4470;  aga  dimchillad  4212;  risin 
muir  duasanaig  4470  ;  seolais  an  ri 
an  sleig  taidlig  dulfrebraig  (=  tul- 
faebrach)  4496 ;  don  ulad  (—  don 
dulad)  1220;  n-ometa282;  gomfhogus 
3994. 

nathair  f .  serpent.  Tanic  nathair  2062, 
494 ;  nathair  oilmir  1425  ;  in  nathair 
sin  499;  taidbsi  nathrach  4142;  ar 
cind  na  nathrach  sin  530,  2083; 
risin  nathraig  498,  2077 ;  n.p.  nath- 
racha  1726,  3033,  3333,  3351;  air  in 
nathair  sin  501;  do  igmaigib  nath- 
rach 1485,  1640;  co  nathrachaib 
523 ;  mar  da  nathraig  4516. 

natharda  serpentine,  snaky  2128.    C.C. 

nech  anyone,  one,  person.  Is  i  cetna 
nech  769;  ni  roibi  neach  1191;  ni 
thug  nech  dib  4477 ;  nech  aili  do 
lecud  fuirri  2283;  neach  dib  2335; 
do  neoch  4402,  2641,  1798;  aca 
iarraid  nech  dib  2503;  tangadar  an- 
mann  in  neoch  domarbad  4458 ; 
do  neoch  thanic  2641,  2698;  in 
neoch  dothuit  dib  4625;  in  neoch 
rafhagbaid  4628 ;  gan  nech  da 
chur  1654 ;  o  na  fuarus  nech  2054 ; 
ni  fuair  nech  rolamad  3635;  gan 
chungnarn  ré  neach  seacharoili4254. 
Cf.  fri  haisneis  ineich  Tbc.  826, 
n.  3. 

nechtar  either.  Can  cungnam  ré  nech- 
tar  dib  4488;  rasu  rafaeth  nechtar 
dib  2542. 

neim  poison.  Co  n-uanfad  neimi  2064 ; 
o  dhriuch  nemi  2098;  tondgar  a 
nemi  1427;  nathracha  nemi  3351; 
co  nimib  765. 

neimnech  virulent  983,  199;  neimh- 
nech  3555 ;  neimdeach  888,  neimnech 
Eg.  ;  nemhnach  49;  airrn  Nomis 
nemnig  3937;  pi.  nemnecha  183, 
1726,  4516.    Wi. 

Néit  battle.  Néid  the  god  of  battle  with 
the  Gael  Cor.2  965 ;  in  bé  Néit  3247 ; 
an  bé  Néid  4447. 

néll  m.  cloud.  Tanic  neill  diamair 
dluith  3758;  neoill  comfhliucha 
1963;  na  neoill  coilli  comdluithi 
4842;  na  neoill  tened  546;  neoill 
dorcha  913,  1730;  tuc  Ioif  neoill 
chiuine  comdorcha  4264 ;  tresna  nell- 


aib  596;  ar  nellaib  1196;  iter  na 
ncllaib  2488. 

nem  heaven.  A  nim  1075;  do  togail 
nime  1290;  re  deib  nuaglana  ninie 
4222  ;  do  nim  p.  xvi. 

nemelRComplaining, complaint.  Truaig- 
nemela  1136. 

nemélach7>/(í('/)íi'iv  1122. 

nemhfni  nothing  66. 

nem-lesc  untiring  L.  Lmpiger  2128. 

nem-luaimnech  unwinging,  with  mo- 
tionless wing»  1233. 

nem-thoglaide  impregnable,  invincible 
983. 

nert  strength  1728;  rotoirned  a  nert 
3313;  co  findar  an  fuilid  na  dei  fein 
do  niadh  no  do  nirt  4229. 

nertaim  /  strengthen.  Pret.  3  s.  ronert 
2422,  4059;  v.n.  aca  nertad  1581, 
2806;  aca  nertadh  3877,  4665;  tre 
nertudh  7  tre  forgill  Apaill  42 ;  acht 
a  mornertad  4795. 

nessa,  nessu  nearer,  next.  Ba  nessa 
3300;  ua  nesa  do-siden  2350,  3432; 
ba  nesu  d'A.  2349,  2446,  2660. 

net  neat.   Im  net  2100. 

ni  thing,  something.  Anni  sin  2090; 
inni  triallai  2139,  3037;  is  e  ni  do- 
roine  890,  3273;  nach  denad  ni 
1305;  acht  ata  ni  chena  1314;  is  e 
ni  doroni  2388 ;  cid  ni  4757 ;  nir-ba 
suaill  ni  ris  ba  samalta  eisium  3404 ; 
dobera-si  ni  ua  ferr  1868 ;  rofitir  fein 
gach  ni  2325;  rotheasctais  ni  da 
faltib743;  tachar  man  ni  1619;  ni 
racomaill  ani  sin  2042 ;  o  'tchondairc 
in  ni  sin  793 ;  in  ni  tárraid  ni  leic- 
fedh  uadha  831 ;  do  neoch  ua  mbid 
a  n-imshnim  1598 ;  dauiccim-sea  in 
ni  bias  do  G.  1681;  d'  adlacad  do 
neoch  marbfer  dib  1708. 

ni  is  more  with  compar.  Ni  bui  ni  is 
faite  co  bar  fuirech  1780;  ni  as  sia 
2237,  2919;  nim  tualaing  a  n-indisin 
ni  as  mo  2706,  3145;  na  marbthar 
sib  ni  as  mo  3379. 

-ni,  -di  us.  Sin-ne  1026 ;  duin-di  1006; 
ragellsamair-ni  1007;  ar  curpu-ni 
1772. 

ni,  ni  h-  not  direct  negative  (including 
is).  Ni  maith  4853;  ni  har  time 
4116;  ni  risin  toisc  4175;  ni  huasal 
3607,  4854;  ni  hail  leó  839;  ni  misi 
2709;  ni  head  sin  1007;  ni  hiad 
so  3375 ;  ni  ho  athair  4802  ;  ni  da 
ngresacht  uairni  miadhliuni 4258,9  ; 
ni  ferrdi  duindi  1006 ;  ni  edaim  1073  ; 
ni  fetar  1075;  nir  cusindiu  3643; 
uair  ni  fagad  si  1342;  ni  thug  si 
fregra  4333;  ni  mó  4469,  3386;  ni 
lemdais  laich  3384.    For  ni-ist*. 


4OI 


26 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


niadh  honour,   veneration  O'E.  4229, 

I.  nith  conflict  O'D. 
niam  hi  at  re.   Niam  orda  3028. 

mamaim  I  brighten,  make  lustrous. 
P.p.  3  p.  roniamaid  1272.  Niam 
Acall. 

niamda  lustrous,  beautiful  283,  3027. 

niam-glan  bright  and  pure  506,  1177, 
1231.   Niab^w. 

niata  heroic,  fierce. 4516.    C.C. 

nipe  nymph.  L.  nymphe.  Nipe  bean 
do  L.  2685 ;  ninipa  3573. 

no-  rel.  particle;  extended  to  infix 
pronouns ;  then  used  generally  as  a 
preverb.  Cia  norigfaidis  3006 ;  amal 
nobetis  3081 ;  amal  nothisadb  an  la 
4232;  amal  norethidis  da  buindi 
buana  3135  ;  nabidis  'na  saitbeadaib 
990 ;  a  fer  uadein  nomarbsad  1955 ; 
comad  hé  a  mac  fein  nohidbortha 
4152 ;  an  torathar  nathaidledh  7 
nothimchilleadh  na  moigi  901;  na- 
imtiged-som  310 ;  mar  bad  in  uair  sin 
nobedh  1258;  mar  nabeth  ina  fiad- 
naisi  2713 ;  abs.  nobertaigis  4497, 
bertnaigis  int  shleg  Eg. 

no  co  n-  until.  No  co  ndebairt  1040; 
nocha  n-uil  1115;  nocha  n-ar  glor 
1312 ;  no  co  torchradar  3271 ;  nocha 
denaim-si  834;  nocha  sirmid  864; 
nocha  biu  ag  urnaidi  ris  1308;  no- 
cha n-i  1341 ;  noco  tainig  907 ;  nocho 
tre  énaib  1634;  naco  rathuitseadar 
949;  nocho  deenna  1768. 

-nocht  to-night.  Isinn  aidchi-si  nocht 
3917. 

nocht  naked,  bare.  Ua  nochta  formna 
1527. 

nochtaim  I  make  bare,  unsheathe. 
Pret.  3  s.  donocht  919;  ronocht 
3391. 

nó-combádud  ship-wreck  1795.  C.C, 
P.H. 

nói  nine.  Co  cend  noi  la  7  noi  n-aidchi 
2260. 

noidenta,  náidenta  childish  3215. 

nóidentachd  f.  childhood.  Inna  naid- 
eanntacht  164. 

nóidiu  f.  child,  infant.  G.s.  rogab  a 
chuideran  noeidean  92 ;  in  geran  sin 
na  noidean  94,  6 ;  ac  brecad  na  nai- 
dean  1784;  d'  fuil  na  naiden  2095; 
don  naidin  sin  513 ;  a.s.  adchond- 
airc  in  naidin  96;  n.p.  naidin 
4456. 

nuad,  noad  strength.  Concuirthi  a  nu- 
aid  952;  bid  nua  sin  1144.  Noad 
magnifying,  intensifying,  Laws;  nua 
.i.  laidir  strong  O'Cl. 

nua-glan  fresh  and  bright,  strong  and 
bright.  Re  deib  nuaglana  4222,  2224, 


2948;    ar    nellaib    nuaglana    1196; 

gaiscedaig   nuaglana   2659;    ingena 

nuaglana  1373. 
nua-glanaim    I   make    newly    bright. 

P.p.  3  p.  ronuaglanaid  1272. 
núa-glas/ms/i  and  green  1715. 
núall  í.  uproar,  yell,  shriek.    In  nuall 

sin  1284  ;  ac  nuall  moir  3374 ;  mine 

chluined  in  n-uall  408. 
núallaim  I  yell,  shout.    Pret.  3  p.  co 

ronuallsad  2538. 
núall-gáir  f.  cry,  ijell  1301. 
núall-guba  f.  cry  of  sorroiv,  lamenting 

1122,  1268,  2687,  3687;  'con  nuall-. 

guba  sin  4712 ;  rofobradar  nuallguba 

n-adbail  do  denam  4563.   C.C. 

0  (a)  with  pf.  after,  when.  O  rabui  am- 
laid  sin  3398  ;  o  tainic  1339 ;  o  dori- 
acht  T.  914;  o  rasiacht  2945,  3900; 
o  dariacht  4319;  o  rabadar-sum 
2938 ;  o  racomraic  1051 ;  o  na  fua- 
radar  fis  1194;  o  'dubairt  1215; 
o  tharraid  baegal  gona  3099  ;  (b)  with 
pret.  from  the  time  that,  since  3533. 

ó,  úa  from.  With  dat.  aspirates:  Is. 
uaim-si  1072;  2  s.  uaid  848;  uait 
1025,  9,  3458;  3  s.  m.  uada  262, 
833,  915,  984,  1922,  3299 ;  uad  882, 
3301,  4800,  989,  1090;  f.  uaithi 
4404,  3899;  1  p.  uaind  1005,  1973; 
uaindi  2030 ;  2 p.  oenloeeh  uaib  2506, 
3258,  3314,  6,  4392;  3  p.  uaithib 
4474,  1195,  1846;  on  cind  co  cheli 
1802;  uan  talmain  2019;  on  ehath- 
raig  4292. 

óaegurda  q/"or  belonging  to,  a  shepherd. 
Lorgaoaegurdal565;  v.  aegaire.  Oe- 
gaire  P.H. 

ob  ri  hob  ria  over  against  1835.  Ob 
creek  McB. 

obaim  I  refuse,  reject.  2  fut.  3  s.  cuich 
roopabad  676,  rooibebad  Eg.;  pret. 
3s.roopl448.  Od-benaim  Ériu  1.206. 

oband  quick,  sudden.  Co  h.  1112, 1120, 
1781,  2570,  4559;  co  himluaimnech 
opond  3591.    Obunn  .i.  Loath  O'Dav. 

óbél,  óibel  open  mouth,  mouth  from  ear 
to  ear.  Ee  hoiblibh  2341  Eg.;  dar 
oibhlibh  3066  Eg.;  hence  perhaps 
S.G.  puirt-a-beul. 

oc  near,  with.  Prep,  with  dat.:  ac  seo 
here  2158;  ag  so  misi  4179 ;  ag  siud 
4468;  ac  sin  4836,  cugaibh  Eg.;  ag 
P.  4433,  re  Eg. 

With  v.n. :  ace  iarraid  1047 ;  ac 
comdingnad  1848;  7. mé  ac  Ulcan 
and  I  belonging  to  Vulcan  1050;  ata 
inis  L.  acut  1916;  ag  aenrig  841. 

With  pronominal  elements:  1  s. 
acum   2111;    agam-sa   4467,  4707; 


402 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


2  s.  agad  4468;  agat  4531;  agut 
1042;  acut  634;  acid-su  2957;  3  s. 
aigi-sium  837,  4323;  aigi  fein  971; 
f.  aici  2119;  1  p.  aoaind  574,  2029; 
acaindi  2593;  2  p.  accaib  1858;  ag- 
aib  4027,  4655;  3  p.  acu  3343;  accu 
2443;  accu-sum  740;  aco-suin  742; 
aco-sam  1271;  acco-son  1385;  aco- 
som  3975. 

With  poss.  pronouns:  1  s.  acorn 
gairm2927;  acim  iarraid  2926 ;  2  s. 
acat  cetgairm-su  3455 ;  ataid  na  dei 
'cot  iarraid  4165 ;  agad  togairm  4349  ; 
•  3  s.  m.  acca  thairmese  1357,  1381; 
'ca  aiscin  di  3331 ;  3  s.  f .  acca  mac 
uaden  788;  3  p.  aga  n-airim  fein 
1001 ;  aca  railliud  as  they  were  being 
destroyed  2155. 

With  art.:  acinn  apach  3462 ;  agon 
altoir  4767 ;  ac  na  gnimaib  sin  3993. 

óc  (1)  young.  In  gille  og  3884;  an  fer 
og  907;  rig  oc  na  hArcaidi  2079; 
ua  hoc  1448,  2511,  1846;  intan  ba 
hoc  2429;  gnimraid  in  gille  oig  sin 
3751;  d'  og  na  do  shin  1137;  iter 
oc  7  sen  1870 ;  ider  og  7  shen  4214 ; 
do  gillib  occa  1468. 

(2)  m.  young  man.  7  oic  arna 
n-airlech  1911;  fer  do  ogaib  891; 
v.p.  a  occu  417,  489;  a  oco  1734; 
a  ocu  3316 ;  a  oga  4060. 

ócbad  f.  youth,  young  man.  Kathriall- 
sad  ogbaid  4080 ;  an  ogbaid  thanga- 
dar  4305. 

ócbatuf.  youth.  N.p.  inn ocuadatu  tend 
togaide  1437;  d.s.  ina  ocuataid  166. 

occol,  ocol  bold,  vehement  700;  an  ri 
ogal4495;  ar  glor  ogal  1312;  occal 
eccendais  1687;  ocla  2558.  Cym. 
di-ogel. 

ócdam  m.  ox  1404.    C.C. 

ochar  edge,  border.  A. p.  ochra  3093 ; 
co  hochraib  3521.    C.C. 

ocus  (1)  and.  Generally  written  7, 
unites  a  synthetic  and  analytic  norn. : 
doronus  comairli  7  mobrathair  4341 ; 
lecid  etrumsa  7  mo  brathair  3380; 
dogensa  comrac  7  Etiocles  4343 ; 
co  fheraind  comlann  7  an  curad 
croda  4382;  co  laieam  gleo  and  7 
na  T.  4857. 

(2)  seeing,  considering  that,  pro- 
vided that.  7  ata  do  brathair  agad 
togainn  4350 ;  7  doriacht  do  brathair 
4362 ;  7  tu  re  bruinne  bais  4552 ; 
7  mise  A.  4719;  7  leigid  dam-sa 
835;  7  marbait-si  iat  isan  oichdi 
1459 ;  7  toirrnisc  do  chomrag  4469 ; 
7  ni  thobair  Ioib  fortacht  foraind 
1769;  7  mé  féin  can  olc  do  buain 
rium  4031. 


(3)  correlative  of  cuma,  inand,  sa- 
mail:  ba  s.  lindi  7...  2017;  is  cuma 
roraid  sin  7  2126. 

oen-,  see  aen-. 

óg  f.  virgin,  maiden.  Inn  óg  692,  2645; 
in  óg  fhial  4401. 

óice  f.  youth.  Ar  a  óiei  3746;  ar  th' 
oici  3780;  ua  nair  leis-sium  a  oige 
3882.    Oitiu  Wi. 

oid  notice.  Da  uidh  240,  1418.  See 
áid,  óid  T.T.i 

oil,  áil  f.  cheek,  jaw.  D.p.  re  hóilib 
2341,  re  hoiblibh  Eg.;  dar  oilib  na 
hechraidi  3066,  dar  oibhlibh  Eg.    C. 

oilén  m.  island.  Ua  saidbir  int  olen 
sin  1928;  amal  oleán  1939;  dealba 
na  n-oilen  4825. 

oilmir  slimy  ('?).  L.  lubricus.  Nathair 
o.  anindech  1426,  oilmer  Eg. 

oir-,  words  beginning  with,  v.  air-. 

oiredh,  aire  burden.  Ana  11-oireadaib 
3990,  eredhaibh  Eg. 

oirfltiud,  airfitiud  minstrelsy,  amuse- 
ment, delight.  Adbal  a  airfitiud  680 ; 
a  haithle  oirridthe  3955 ;  ac  airtidiud 
1947,  airfidedh  Eg. 

oirmuidnech  revered,  venerable.  High 
uasal  oirmuidnech  1 ;  a  uasail  air- 
midnig  1250.    Airmitnech  P.H. 

ólm.  drinking.  G.s.  tindenusola  1799; 
re  hoi  1885;  ac  ol  717,  719,  1804, 
2991;  d'  ol  uisci  2771,  2994,  2997; 
ua  deoch  acca  hoi  1802. 

Ola  f.  oil.  Ola  chomshlemuin  2560; 
roforruamnad  corp  in  deglaich  a  hola 
2438.    P.H. 

ola-chrand  olive-tree.  An  fleisc  n-ola- 
chraind  883,  2008.    .En.  3148. 

ola-chranda  having  olive  trees.  Isin 
(sic  I.)  sliab  n-alaind  n-olachranda 
sin  1209.    Cranda  Lism.  3730. 

olc  (1)  evil,  ill  3596;  ba  hole  leo-sum 
sin  2051 ;  compar.  bid  mesa  1682. 

(2)  m.  a  wrong,  evil-doing  2952; 
each  olc  860 ;  olc  L.  2158 ;  na  bid  a 
olc  2956.  a  disaster.  Figrad  firuile 
750,  3234;  Eagla  uile  940;  comar- 
tha  uile  1385;  d'  ulc  1701 ;  na  hind- 
tamlaig  na  huile  571;  uile  7  ecora 
2150;  na  huile  doroine  riu  3775, 
1924,  3356;  a  n-ulc  862;  is  coir  t' 
olc  do  denam  4263,  1061 ;  co  ndernes 
ulca  153;  darigne  ulcu  1737;  dar 
ulcaib  ria  761. 

ometa,  v.  dometa. 

on  that.  Cid  on  what  is  that!  whyi 
3408. 

onóir,  anór  f.  honour.  Anor  4654;  ni 
huasal  an  onoir  dam  3607 ;  ni  maith 
an  anoir  4854;  t'  onoir  679;  'na 
n-anoir  4228;    in   n-onoir  na  ndei 


403 


)— 2 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


1643,  2183,  2191 ;  a  n-onoir  na  bande 
3013  ;  gan  onoir  1797. 

onorach  honourable.  Is  adhuar  ono- 
raeh  3679;  in  ri  onorach  2163;  co 
hanoraeh  4917 ;  co  hone-rack  574, 
4197;  rob  onorach  1829;  ag  denam 
idbarta  anorach  4355;  idbarta  on- 
orcha  3893;  onoracha  2219,  2958, 
2987. 

onórugud  m.  honouring  737;  d'  ano- 
rugud  4620,  4902. 

or  m.  gold.  7  or  ac  snigi  dar  etaigib 
2249;  in  muntorc  oir  1505;  d'  or 
1548. 

orclaige  diaphragm  (?)  1011;  urchall 
m.  shackle,  binder;  urchallach  H.B. 

ord  m.  rank,  method,  use,  custom,  act. 
Ni  fhetar  a  n-ord  2037;  a  n-urd  a 
n-adaltrais  1053;  do  reir  uird  1815. 
Aur. 

órda  (1)  gold,  made  of  gold.  Cumtach 
orda  754 ;  copan  orda  2410 ;  int 
siblaind  orda  2436 ;  muintorc  alaind 
orda  4094,  1550. 

(2)  golden  463 ;  saigdi  orda  3205 ; 
cimus  alaind  ordha  3739;  ruithean 
na  eathbarr  n-orda  917 ;  d'  iarraid  in 
croicind  órda  1943 ;  do  snath  alaind 
orda  2214.    The. 

ordaigim  I  order,  ordain,  decree.  Pret. 
3  s.  roordaig  2215;  roordaich  2715, 
3045;  doordaigh-sium  4586 ;  p.p.  ro- 
hordaigeadh  3910;  rohordaiged  702, 
3008;  v.n.  daordugud3006;  ordaiged 
m.  g.s.  as  adj.  Ordaigthe  arranged, 
shapely.  Fo  cathbarraib  ordaigi  4492. 
Orduigte  O'R. 

ordnim  I  ordain.  P.p.  3  s.  o  rahorned 
3011 ;  rohoirdnedh  3910,  Eg.    P.H. 

ór-snáth,  v.  snáth. 

os  aird  aloft,  aloud,  plainly,  openly 
273,  1714,  2102,  2750,  2931,  4124, 
4317,  4536. 

osad  m.  cessation,  pause,  truce,  rest. 
Ba  gairit  dono  a  n-osad-sum  3509 ; 
ni  berthai  sid  na  osud  2793.    TSh. 

oslugud,  v.  f-oslaicim. 

osnad  m.  sigh.  N.p.  osnaid  mor,  I.  os- 
naid  mora  2615.    Cf.  The.  197. 

o-tá from,  which  is,  from  which  extends. 
Ota  Sefon  co  hArgus  1101. 

Parche  the  three  Fates.    N.p.  Fairchi 

aderar  riu  1320;  d.s.  ag  na  Parchip 

1319. 
pell  a  sheet.    Do  pellaib  462.    L.  pellis. 

CO. 
penn  in.  a  pen  p.  xvi. 
persu  f.  person.   N.p.  persanda  623. 
pian  f.   pain,   punishment.     Cia    nach 

fitir  in  nan  1668;  is  i  a  pian  1670. 


piseda  pieces  368,pisidi  Eg.   Piosa,  pi. 

piosaidhe.    Din. 
pléit  f.   solicitation,  contention,  spite 

p.  xvi. 
póc  m.  kiss.   Tuc  each  dibh  poic  3723; 

rothairbir  poicc  do  2624. 
pócad  m.  kissing  258, 1376,  1893, 2096. 
pócaim  I  kiss.  Pret.  3  s.  pogais  4702 ; 

ropoc  1358. 
popul  m.  people.     Iter  na  poiplib  sin 

1106. 
portimmarchoirthid  ni .  fe  rry  man  1 649 , 

portimarchairtidh  Eg. 
prim-,  L.  primus,  only  in  cpds.  chief 

or  preeminent. 
prím-álaind    preeminently      beautiful 

1394. 
primda  primary,  excellent   696,    963, 

1172,  1429,  1496,  3030. 
prim-echtach  first    in   valiant   deeds, 

must  puissant  3150,  3315. 
prím-eólach  chief  of  learned,  of  chief 

skill  4253. 
prim-liaig    m.    chief  physician.     D' 

iarraid  an  primlega  4180. 
prim-long  f.  principal  ship.    Re  seol- 

chrand  primluingi  moiri  2562. 
prim-sacartm.  chief  priest.    Sochraidi 

in  primsacairt  1534. 
pupall  m.  pavilion,  tent.    Re  doirrsib 

a  mbrecpupall  2739;  o  'tchondcadar 

pupuill  2737. 

rach-  as  fut.  of  tiagaim  from  rega  I 
shall  go.  1  s.  rachad-sa  3920,  3985, 
4637,  4670;  3  s.  an  racha  1005; 
nocha  racha  1143 ;  rel.  ca  leth  rachas 
4392  ;  1  p.  co  racham  uili  and  1327  ; 
2  fut.  3  s.  na  dorachad  do  grad-sa 
uaim-si  1072,  4799;  subj.  Is.  na 
rach-sa  3982,  nach  rachum  Eg. ;  1  p. 
rachmaid  3928. 

ra-darc  view,  prospect.  Lanradarce 
3989. 

ráidim,  rádim  I  say.  Pret.  3  s.  abs. 
raidis  3210,  4173,  4262,  4407,  4465, 
4499,  4530,  4607,  4653,  4675,  4853, 
4884,  4890;  3  s.  doraid  4027,  4175, 
4378,  4390,  4788,  4811;  roraidh 
1049;  roraid-sium  3212;  raid,  I. 
roraid  2601;  3  p.  doraidsed  friss  4367; 
roraidsed  3306,  7;  p.p.  is  ed  roraided 
lis  2115;  v.n.  arna  radha  3717;  do 
rada  4841 ;  da  rada  4379 ;  aga  rada 
sin  1009,  1868,  4132;  da  rad  2239, 
4177;  'ga  rad  sin  3260;  aga  rad 
4666. 

rail  f.  oak.  D.s.  re  ralaig  2563;  ad- 
chondairc  da  ralaig  mbeaca  aimreidi 
4224;  a.s.  amail  ralaig  1519,  1004; 
a. p.    rogluaiseth-si    na   railgi    2069 


404 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


roleic  I.  railci  romóra  3627 ;  na  railgi 
remra  311;  g.p.  tuinnsim  na  ralec 
romór  sin  3630;  do  railgib  romora 
4234. 

ráimZ/w.  Pret.  3p.  rorseset  2014.  Wi. 

rastal  m.  a  rake.  N.p.  rastail  1278. 
Cor.  Tr. 

rathugud  observing.  Can  rathubad 
4072. 

ré  time,  period.  Re  re  ciana  2533, 
3098;  risin  ré  sin  4520,  4097. 

ré :  prep,  with  dat. :  (1)  before.  Ro- 
thuitsead  andana  brathair  ré  T.  1021, 
4304;  re  teacht  ar  in  sluaiged  sin 
3010,  3736;  ré  soillsi  in  esca  917; 
re  each  1548;  re  chach  2424;  resna 
sluagaib  2727  ;  rena  buidin  2813. 

(2)  owing  to.  Ré  f eochrngud  na  f eirgi 
930 ;  re  met  na  fergi  2545 ;  2  s.  remad 
4598,  romut  Eg.  ;  romad  4324 ;  ro- 
mat  4792;  3  s.  roime  253,  866, 
918;  remi  1737;  remi  sin  1955, 
2262;  reime  263,  4056,  4617;  reimi 
3369 ;  riam  romi  2495 ;  tainig  in  in- 
gen  roime  4546, 4561 ;  f.  roimpi  1346, 
4326,  rompi  2071,  3713;  2  p.  romaib 
4856;  romaib  4856;  remaib  1122; 
3  p.  reompu  607,  1477,  1785,  3407; 
reompo  723,  1919. 

(3)  by  used  for  la.   Re  'roili  2542. 
ré  sia  before.   Ré  siu  adcear  4397;  ré 

siu  dofaetsad  4342;  ré  siu  beith  4394; 

re  siu  bhagaba  bass  4543;    ria   siu 

roshoitbead   talmain   2435  ;    re    siu 

donetis  a  coimling  2442;  ra  su  rafseth 

nechtar  dib  2541. 
ret)  feat,  sport.    Gan  reb   chatha  do 

corugud2977.    Tbc. 
rebach  sportive.    Maccaim  robega  re- 

bacha  2265. 
recht  m.  law.   Dar  in  recht  3343. 
refed  m.    rope,   cord.    A  refedaib   an 

charbaid  4121. 
réid  even,   smooth,   level.     Cach  mag 

reid  roglas  4818 ;  ar  inad  reid  roglan 

4856  ;    f  orin   moig  mor   reid   2315 , 

4744 ;  dona  moigib  reidi  3506. 
réim  troop,  host.    Ara  reim  sin  957. 

Tbc. 
rem-cotlud  m.  previous  sleep.   A  suan 

remeotalta  2061. 
rem-thus   van,    front.     I   r.   re   each 

3318. 
remur  thick,  stout.   Sleagr.  3402;  gae 

r.   2696;    railgi    remra    311;    slega 

roremra  1415. 
rét  thing.    Ca  raet  1901. 
rethe  m.  ram.    Bid  rethi  togla  2482; 

reitheda  togla  battering  rants  3445. 
rethim  I  run,  course.   Ipf.  3  s.  ara  luas 

dorethad  2464  ;  3  p.  amal  norethidis 


3135;  fut.  3  p.  reithfid  in  mag  2287  ; 
pret.  3  p.  amal  roreithset  2287, 
2443. 

rétlu  f.  star.  Amal  retlaind  luaith 
188,  306;  co  roergedar  retlanda  266, 
1217 ;  n.p.  retla  roglana  270. 

ri  towards:  prep,  with  ace.  but  dat.  pi.: 
sainalta  ri  sliab  948;  ri  re  1859; 
often  confused  with  (a)  ré :  i .  re  hEoib 
1212;  ré  himsnim  1341;  (b)  le:  can 
chungnam  ré  nechtar  dib  4488,   le 

.  Eg. ;  ba  fada  ré  M.4727 ;  ré  cheili  979, 
4625, 4627  ;  roleicscad  a  n-armu  risin 
sruth  3513,  3631;  is  lor  a  fhat  risna 
deib  1916;  re  gach  nduni  1518. 

With  pronominal  elements:  1  s. 
rim  1051;  rim-sa  1132,  1702;  2  s. 
rit-su  1132,  1353,  4260;  rit-so  673; 
rit  3717  ;  3  s.m.  ris  922  ;  ris  in 
addition  1028 ;  friss4367;  Ms  1128, 
1191 ;  risi  sin  oh  the  other  hand  4831 ; 
3s.f.  ria-si  782,  2238,  3498;  fria 
4332 ;  1  p.  rind  4591  ;  2  p.  is  ed 
roraid  ribsi  3918;  rib  4146;  3  p. 
raidis  riú  4729;  aderar  riu  1320. 

With  poss.  pronoun :  red  bhrathair 
4392;  ret  brathair  2757,  3755. 

With  rel. :  ris  ba  teindinus  teit- 
head  987 ;  ris  ba  samalta  3037. 

With  art. :  reisin  mbuidin  teind 
sin  946;  risna  baithcheileabraib  846 ; 
risna  Grecaib  1263;  risna  sluagaib 
4017. 

ri  m.  king  545.  An  ri  romor  gasta  4823 ; 
in  ri  uasal  2156;  an  ri  diumsach 
1238  ;  ri  oc  na  hArcaide  3731 ;  rig 
3348;  an  ri  uasal  1109, 1172;  g.s.  ag 
rochtain  an  rig  sin  981,  1094;  v.s.  a 
ri  2546,  3682;  n.p.  na  rig  domarbad 
andsin  4783 ;  a.s.  iat  so  na  riga  1685 ; 
a. p.  a  rige  do  marbad  4781;  tar  eis 
na  rig  rodileas  4598;  v. p.  a  riga 
maithi  mormenmnacha  2709. 

riadaigim  I  break  in.  Pret.  3  s.  ra-d- 
riadaig  3495. 

riam  before,  formerly  1228 ;  riam  roimi 
1640";  r. 'roime  3572,  3726;  fecht 
riam  remi  746,  1413,  2435;  ar  tus 
riam  771,  2192. 

riathar  m.  torrent,  rush.  N.p.  comdis 
riathair  3287.  Riathor  C.C. 

riccim  I  come,  arrive  at.  Pres.  2  s.  co 
ruigi  in  inad  sin  911;  ipf.  co  na 
roictis  2911 ;  pf .  3  s.  no  co  ranic  2943, 
3594 ;  o  ranic  3319 ;  rainig  4338 ;  o 
rainic  3592  ;  3  p.  o  rangadar  na 
curpu  4563,  2171,  2722,  4069;  no  co 
rancatar  3889  ;  3  s.  fut.  ni  ricfa  4708 ; 
1  s.  co  roisir  4637,  risiur  Eg. ;  2  s. 
no  co  roissed  239 ;  2  fut.  2  p.  co  roisti 
4813 ;  coniad  hé  risad  ar  tus  3926. 


405 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


riched  heaven,  kingdom.   I  nn-ingnaib 

roglanaib  richid  4168;   do  dingnaib 

roglana  riched  2019,  4485.   Aur. 
richt  shape,  gaise.    'Na  richt  fen  15, 

3465;  a  richt  13,  782,  1573,  3452; 

i  richt  3464 ;  i  rricht  778, 1721 ,  1861 ; 

ina  r.  fein  636,  2917;  7  si  a  richt  a 

bancheli  4332. 
rig  forearm,  arm.    Koiad  each  dib  a 

lama  7  a  rigthi  2562. 
rigaim  I  make  king,  crown.  Ipf.  subj. 

3  p.  cia  norigfaidis  3006 ;  pret.  3  p. 

rorigsad  4582. 
rigan  f.  queen.    Ba  foreesta  forbthi  in 

rigan   2749;    rigan    na    Cichloiscthi 

4799 ;  acin  rigain  2039. 
rigda   royal.     Fer  rigda  957;    edach 

rigda  4440:  cathbarr  rigda  4436,  9; 

dont  shleig  rigda  3414 ;  i  tigib  rigda 

2204;    dar  etaigib  rigda  2249;    don 

shil    rigda    4153 ;     compar.    rigdu 

383. 
rigda  f.  palace;  deisid  ina  rigda  4610; 

isin  rigdai  rogloin  sin  651 ;  isin  rigda 

1151,  righdá  Eg.   Mn. 
rigdacht    f.    kingdom,    kinging.    Aga 

fhaigsin  ara  r.  4434. 
rig-dun  royal  fort,  royal  castle.    Isin 

rigdun  456. 
rige  f.  kingship.    An  rigi  do  thabairt 

do  P.  4132,  4337 ;  rigi  4530 ;  righi 

4914;   fieisc  na  rigi  4543;   roshaint 

rigi  4468  ;  ic  cosnum  rigi  3376  ;  gan 

rigi  3380;    cuindig  rige   air  2758; 

gein  bei-si  a  rigi  forra  4374 ;  do  chur 

a  rigi  4597;   do   beth  i  rigi  2050; 

isin  rigi  4380;  rige  do  gabail  1290; 

rogabh  a  mac  righi  na  T.  4914. 
ríg-fláithius  m.  sovereignty  632. 
rig-milid  royal  soldier.    Na  secht  rig- 

milid  4211. 
rignacht  f.  queenship.   Do  rignacht  na 

cathrach  4681. 
rignaide  queenly.    7  ua  rignaidi  rodelb 

na  hingine  sin  1765.    C.C. 
rig-rad  f.  kingfolk.    Eigrad  glendmer 

1941 ;    rigrad  na  nGrec  2632 ;    risin 

rigraid  706,  1225;  v.s.  a  rigrad  Grec 

3313;  a  rigraid  Grec  2751. 
rig-ruathar  m.  kingly  rush,  royal  on- 
set. Do  righruathar  an  righ  sin  3603. 
rig-shacart  m.  king  and  priest,  royal 

priest   1498;    d'    eis   in   righsagairt 

3719. 
rig-shuide    f.    throne.    Ina    rigshuidi 

472 ;  ina  rigsuidi  2201 ;  ad  rigshuidi 

4368. 
rig-smacht  kingly  authority  230. 
rimim  I  number,  count,  recount.   Pret. 

3  s.  rarim  1212. 
rind  star.    Gan  rind  306;  coma  sam- 


altha    re    rind    roglan   4863;    n.p. 
renna  roglana  2745  ;  a. p.  renda  1217. 

rind  (1)  a  point.  Eindi  1892,  urrand 
thrust  Eg. ;  (2)  brink,  edge.  Co  rind 
mara  698 ;  co  rind  mara  hAidhriadh 
4906. 

rindaim  I  engrave,  carve.  P.p.  3  p. 
rorindad  709,  2260;  p.p.p.  rinta 
1489;  rinnta  707;  rindta  2273;  v.n. 
arna  rindad  4827, 1462,  2411.  C.C, 
JEn. 

rind-gér  having  a  sharp  point  1415, 
1983,  2848. 

rith  m.  running,  course.  Fair  a  rrith 
1573;  dochum  a  retha  2334;  g.s.  as 
adj.  degretha  2275.    V.  deig-rith. 

ro-  L.  pro-  much,  very  with  adjec- 
tives: roálaind  very  beautiful  2273, 
4440,  4823 ;  robuan  very  durable 
4817 ;  ro  dénmach  well  fashioned 
472;  rodiles  very  proper  4598;  ro- 
fhata  very  long  3403;  roglan  very 
bright  2019,  4168,  4485;  rornor 
very  great  4823 ;  ronár  much  ashamed 
301 ;  roremair  very  thick  1004, 1415, 
1519. 

With  nouns :  ara  roairde  for  its 
stately  height  1971 ;  rodelb  stately 
form  1765 ;  roderc,  radarc  view  of 
landscape  3989;  rodhuine  great 
person  4432 ;  roecla  great  fear  3254  ; 
rofláithus  great  principality  148 ; 
rofhlátha  great  princes  244;  romét 
excess  2175;  roretha  of  great  run- 
ning 320;  roshaint  great  desire  4468; 
ro-ulcaib,  rulcaib  great  wrongs 
1132. 

Preverb  turns  pres.  to  pret.  or  pf. : 
nir-fhuiling  3479,  4866;  rathanaid 
4205 ;  and  3  pi.  pres.  to  p.p.  roruam- 
naigit  roisc  2826. 

Expresses  possibility:  cuidh  an 
duine  rocreitfedh  who  could  believe 
3770 ;  trenfer  dib  rofordergad  a  armu 
asa  apach  xvho  could  redden  his 
weapons  in  his  entrails  3477;  gach 
ole  darobi  do  fen  de  every  evil  that 
could  arise  to  himself  therefrom 
1500. 

Becomes  ra-  after  enclitic,  v.  ge: 
ni  rachadail  3002;  o  rashoillsig 
4698;  o  rafheimid  4471;  o  raglan- 
sad  4733;  o  dachuaid-si  3465;  o 
rathoit  1886 ;  o  rathuit  4303 ;  o  ra- 
gonad  4503;  o  rasiacht  4185,  4422, 
4746;  o  rascuirsed  4238;  o  raraid 
4414,  4553,  4610,  4888;  o  raind- 
saigset  4443 ;  o  ralasadar  4683. 

Becomes  ra-  when  relative :  an 
duine  ramarbsad  4228;  co  himlib 
srotha    Ismen   rabai   a    comfhogus 


406 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


don  Teib  4733;  an  minituir  ramarb 
i  n-inis  Creicl  4826;  risin  ri  rad- 
riadaig  3495 ;  a  racuired  a  harmu 
3697 ;  T.  ramarb  na  foraireada  4042. 
ra-  may  have  a  prolcptic  use: 
ragreis  a  each  4464,  4696;  ni  ra- 
fhregair  di  4717 ;  rafaem-sam  tra  sin 
4168;  7  rabean  a  chlaidim  3945; 
raadlaicsed  curpa  a  carad  4917 ; 
rafhtem  I.  sin  3968;  ragab  eagla 
mor  he  4744 ;  ratheilgsed  slega  4110 ; 
ralabair  4185 ;  rafhagsad  hé  4192 ; 
rathanaid  na  curaid  4205;  ratras- 
cair  na  crandoga  4242 ;  co  rascailt  a 
sciath  4276;  co  rachomlas  a  chorp 
fein  uile  4277;  co  raseind  sdocc 
4307;  7  raraid  ria  4559;  ralabair 
4600;  proleptic  with  sentence  as 
object:  rachind  Creon  4783. 

ra-  has  a  reflexive  use:  raeirge- 
dar  4622;  racoimergedar  4482;  7 
raerig  andsin  Creón  4589. 

ró  a  cast.  A.s.  tuc  ro  n-urchair  2083, 
3263;  sreó  n-urchair,  rod  n-urchair 
Acall.  4802. 

robad  warning.  Ba  robad  do  breith  do 
troich  4399".   Aur. 

robarta  flood,  floodtide,  springtide. 
Buinnetha  ruadha  robarta  hit  srotha 
3632;  iter  buindedaib  ruadha  ra- 
barta  4238;  .i.  imat  O'Dav.  No. 
1399;  robhartaO'D.    Tbc.  p.  810. 

robur  floodtide,  panic.  Bogob  robur 
roecla  a  bidbadu  reirni  3254,  ra- 
bartaEg.    TSh. 

rod  road.  Cor-ba  rod  robuan  4817, 
rot  robocc  Eg.    O'B. 

ro-dían-scáiled  an  exceeding  swift 
splitting  2940.    V.  dían-seáilim. 

róe  m.  field,  course.  In  roe  eroda  com- 
raic2863,  ré  Eg.    Tbc. 

róen  defeat,  rout.  Baen  romadma 
4867;  ba  menci  leis  roena  romad- 
mand  3474.    Wi. 

ro-ga  m.  a  choice.  7  ber-si  do  roga 
4321 ;  ca  ragu  734,  caidhi  in  rogha 
Eg. ;  ba  hé  a  roga  3926. 

roindim  I  divide.  Pret.  3  p.  roroind- 
sed  a  sluaga  4125.   Bointi  Tbc. 

ro-intaim,  ro-ind-soim  I  turn  back. 
Pret.  3  s.  cor-inta  1573.  Do-r-intai, 
Ml.  3a  7. 

ro-maidm  v.  maidm  v.  n.  of  maidim 
burst,  defeat,  rout;  romaidm  panic ; 
ram  romadma  4867;  roena  romad- 
mand  3474. 

ro-opair,  v.  fuabraim. 

ro-saigim  I  reach,  arrive  at.  Pres. 
subj.  2 p.  no  co  rosti  2576,  co  roisti 
4813,  cf.  P.H.  2413;  ipf.  subj.  3  s. 
riasiu    roshoithead    talmain    2435; 


3  p.  ni  roichdis  4099 ;  indie,  doriacht- 
ais  4071;  pret.  3  s.  doriacht  1128, 
4362,  9;  o  dariacht  2231;  no  co 
riacht  939,  2302,  3591,  3961,  4048, 
4255;  co  na  ruacht  2532;  ni  riacht 
2192;  intan  rosiaoht  3509,  3606, 
3806,  4387;  o  rasiacht  3475,  3900, 
4185;  dosiacht  4078,  4833;  3  p. 
rosiachtadar  3994,  1872,  350.S; 
rosiachtatar  3871;  ni  riachtadai 
4519,  4087,  4159,  4674;  doriachta- 
dar  2130,  3239,  4811;  v.n.  robad 
comaidem  let  rochtain  3612;  do 
rochtain  340,  1607,  2947,  3894;  a 
rochtain  2587,  4316;  ac  rochtain 
3267;  ag  rochtain  981;  can  rochtain 
4091;  atorrachtain  3707;  dothorach- 
tain  2168,  4335 ;  da  tairechtain 
tosaich  2355. 

rose  m.  eye.  Do  rose  4540;  n.  dual 
rosluiged  a  rose  201 ;  dara  rose  3367, 
4702;  d.p.  o  roscaib  902;  n.p.  ruisc 
an  rig  1094,  2063;  imscith  mo  roisc 
2704 ;  roruamnaigit  roisc  2827. 

ro-sollus  very  bright.  Amail  renna 
rosollsi  2865. 

rót  strong.  A  each  rot  romer  2815.  JEn. 

roth  m.  wheel.  Be  dendgail  na  roth 
2338;  a  rothaib  4121. 

rothaim  I  cause  to  run,  drive,  impel. 
Pret.  3  s.  roroth  999 ;  raroith  in  meis 
2487.   Boithim  JSn. 

rotholl  holed,  perforated  4397. 

rúad  red.  Buinnetha  ruadha  3632, 
4238. 

rúad-lasair  f.  red  flame.  Fidren  ruad- 
lasrach  romoiri  2245. 

rúad-ráma  red  oar,  strong  oar.  Bo- 
gobsad  ruadramada  2013.  C.G.,  cf. 
Laws. 

rúamannda  reddened  3287;  ruamanta 
902,  1094.    C.C. 

ruamnaigim  I  redden.  P.p.  3  p.  ro- 
ruamnaigit roisc  2826. 

ruathar  rush,  onslaught.  Don  r.  sin 
3149,  3555,  3667;  righruathar  3603. 

ruibnech  piercing.  .1.  do  rose  r.  roglas 
4540.   EuibnefanceWi. 

ruiste  rúamanta  rent  and  reddened 
1094 ;  ruiste  rotholl  4397 ;  ruisim  / 
tear  in  pieces.  O'Br.,  C.C.  Windisch 
Tbc.  p.  644  thinks  ruste  means  red- 
dened, being  followed  by  a  word  for 
colour;  but  ruiste  rotholl  4397  is 
not  so  followed. 

rutted  ruddiness,  blush  767.  Buidiud 
C.C,  Wi. 

ruithen  ray,  flash.  Buithean  na  cath- 
barr  916;  n.p.  ruithni  1817;  0 
raairig  T.  ruithne  grene  2044;  ri 
ruithnib  1732.   Buthen  Wi. 


407 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


ruithnecb    gleaming,    flashing.    Cloi- 

dem  r.  3663. 
ruithned  radiance  3988. 
ruitbnigim  I  radiate,  gleam.    Pret.  3  s. 

roruithnig  2197;  v.n.  ruithniugudh 

2044  Eg.,  1987. 
ruithnigtbecb  gleaming,  flashing  1489, 

4436,  4864. 

-sa  this.  The  noun  is  preceded  by  the 
art. :  ant  en-sa  1242 ;  ant  imdergad- 
sa  1055;  an  cath-sa  do  chur  1077; 
isinrigi-si4380;  dona corpaib-si 4854. 

-sa  emphasising  particle,  influenced  by 
preceding  vowel :  1  s.  mi-si  1025 ; 
rirn-sa  1132 ;  uaim-si  1072 ;  momac- 
sa  4198;  na  geb-sa  1028;  dober-sa 
1079  ;  mo  chend-sa  1029 ;  mo  marb- 
ad-sa  2053 ;  dam-sa  1050 ;  2  s.  thussu 
1771  ;  duit-si  1059,  4411  ;  rit-so 
673,  4413;  rit-su  1132,  4260;  do 
beith-siu  béo  1026;  fortsa  dena-sa 
oram-sa  4413;  ad  chomdail-si  1050; 
dobertha-sa .  1056 ;  tabair-seo  1504; 
3  s.  rogab-sam  968  ;  rabai-sium  1009  ; 
•rouai-seom  1893;  3  s.f.  disi  1509; 
aca  pocad-si  1893;  a  mic-si  4198; 
robai-si  4199;  2  p.  bid-si  an  bar 
tocht  1133;  dochum  bar  crichi-si 
a  Grecu  2056 ;  3  p.  riu-son  684 ;  leo- 
som  727;  tangadar-som  745;  aca- 
samh817;  iadsam  3913. 

sab  bar,  bolt,  pole.  Fuaininech  na 
sabad  4101.    C.C. 

sacart  m.  priest.  Eoerig  sacart  2841; 
an  sagart  1189,  1255,  1328;  g.s.  int 
sacairt  2772 ;  co  samlaitis  na  sacairt 
1371 ;  na  faidi  7  na  fisidi  sagart  1208 ; 
mac  M.  int  sbagairt  celmanaig  3909 ; 
in  sacart  celmainech  Eg. 

sacerdóit  f.  •priesthood.  I  comartha  a 
sacerdoiti  2291. 

sádaile  ease,  luxury,  comfort.  Ni  der- 
naid  idbarta  na  suan  na  sadailli  2029  ; 
can  s.  2719;  i  sadaili  2141.  C.C, 
_  TSh. 

sádud  piercing,  thrust.  Ke  sadud  390; 
do  sadud  538 ;  tuc  sadud  setrech 
sleigi  3142 ;  tuc  I.  sadud  sleigi  3541 ; 
v.n.  of  sáidim. 

sáeb-chore  whirlpool.  Coma  saobhcoire 
3639,  40;  isin  saebchoiri  3545. 

sáeb-gáeth  f.  whirlwind.  Ee  sitgail 
na  saebgaithi  1972. 

sáeb-srutb  eddy,  back-water.  Iter 
buindedaib  ruadha  rabarta  na  saeb- 
sruth  4238. 

sáeglach  long-lived  3198. 

sáegul  m.  age,  lifetime.  Snaitheada 
bar  saegail  1319;  co  forceand  saegail 
2185,  2918. 


sáemind,  sáim-mind  slender  and  deli- 
cate, gentle  and  quiet.  Gabair  saemind 
2279,  seimind,  séim-mind  Eg.  Don 
capall  ririn  TSh.  208,  7. 

sáeraim  I  deliver.  P.  ipv.  3  s.  saorthar 
3650  ;  p.p.  3  s.  rosaerad  552  ;  3  p. 
rosaerait  553;  v.n.  do  saerud  3716. 

sáer-cnland  f.  noble  scion.  Ba  suai- 
chinti  sarecha  saercland  3127 ;  ba 
suaichinti  slesa  saerchland  4209;  a 
sleasaib  suarca  saercland  2824,  3091 
(sic  corr.) ;  dithfine  ar  saerclandaib 
3221. 

sáer-slúag  noble  host  1947;  sarsluagEg. 

sáethar  labour,  u-ork,  toil.  7  saethar 
dimain  a  denam  3409 ;  o  tharnic  in 
saethar  sin  2264,  466, 1976;  re  saethar 
ind  imrama  1948. 

sag  a  bitch.  A. p.  amal  saga  gera  gor- 
tacha  leoman  lionesses  1888.  Sagh 
O'R.,  soigh-chulanach  McA.,  sub 
voc.  bitch;  bad  spelling  for  sad,  sod 
Aisl. 

saidbir  rich  335,  575,  1927;  co  tigib 
saidbri  502 ;  sluaig  saidbri  2662. 

sáidim  I  fix,  thrust.  Pret.  3  s.  co  rosaid 
1892 ;  rasaideastar  534 ;  saithis  4547 ; 
3  p.  rossaidsed  3304;  p. p. p.  sáiti  990, 
1516,  2738.    Str.  Stories. 

saigdecb  archer.    7  mili  saegdech  2656. 

saiget  f.  arrow.  7  saiged  do  chach 
2467;  tarla  saigead  4309;  do  saigit 
3103 ;  mar  saigid  2327 ;  rodibraic 
saigid  2582 ;  tarlaic  saigit  2839 ;  ac 
cur  na  soighdi  arin  sreing  3822 ; 
urchur  saigti  sithguirmi  1962,  2312, 
2347;  luaithithir  re  saeigid  a  sreng 
3429 ;  re  himad  na  seeigid  3286 ;  acht 
soighde  cathalaind  sealca  do  dhiubru- 
cud  3808,  4111 ;  ag  dibragad  soigead 
4104  ;  corucsadna  soigti  2783 ;  saigdi 
1475,  1984,  3205,  3249,  3938;  co 
nfordergad  a  shoigdi  1547,  3759 ; 
tucsat  frais  do  shleghaibh  7  do  saigh- 
dibh  3658. 

saigetbolcm.  quiver  1552;  soighedbolc 
3740,  3759;  soigheduolc  3800;  a 
soighiduolc  d'  folmagud  3818. 

saigim  seek,  make  for.  Pres.  2  p.  cusa 
soichi  3350;  ipf.  3  s.  rosoiged  3219, 
3769 ;  pret.  3  s.  abs.  saeigis  3417 ; 
saigis  4700 ;  pf .  3  s.  7  rosiacht  2785 ; 
ó  rosiacht  3806;  o  rasiacht  1099; 
dosiacht  2600;  3  p.  roighsit  80; 
rosiachtatar  821;  v.n.  ae  saeighid 
1996. 

saignen  lightning,  bolt  1239;  darala 
chuigi  soignen  4275 ;  rotriall  saegnen 
2091  ;  mar  saegnen  2327,  1084  ;  a 
richt  saignen  782;  o  saignen  4283; 
contaidligtis    saignena    870 ;     amal 


408 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


saeignena  2518,  3088,  4269;  masad 
cumachtaig  ar  saignenaib  4261. 
saignénta    fulminating,  L.  fulmineus 

958,  1423,  281  Eg. 
saigte,  sseigte  wicked.  Do  Idas  saeigti 
2467,  L.  improbus  Idas.  Ata  saidbri 
saigthi  whose  wicked  one*  are  wealthy 
I'd.-  Prol.  162;  cf.  saich,  saigthech 
obtruder  O'K. ;  saigi  crime  of  a  middle 
kinsman,  Laws. 

saigthiu  f.  seeking,  reaching,  attacking, 
making  for.  Ac  saitbinamedai'3239 ; 
v.n.  of  saigim. 

sáilim  I  hope,  expect.  Pres.  2  pi.  an 
sailti  4654;  pret.  3  s.  o  nar-sail-si 
4316  ;  nir-sbail  4334  ;  uair  doshail 
4151;  3  p.  nir-sailsed  1760. 

sáime  tranquillity  1220.    Sáma  Tbc. 

sainemail  especially  good,  excellent. 
Claidem  slipta  saineamail  3576 ; 
soineamail  2258,  4085;  isin  sligid 
saineamail  198;  n.p.  saineamla  730, 
1475;  sainemna  1464;  airm  suaichinta 
soineamla  4442;  isna  sligtbibh  soi- 
neamlaib  882;  asna  sleibtib  s.  293; 
co  tigib  soneamla  503. 

saint  f .  coretousness,  greed,  longing  793 ; 
masa  roshaint  rigi  fuil  agad  4468, 
saint  Eg.;  saint  7  ailgius  catha  2610. 

saithe swarm, flight.  Eotelgidsaitbeada 
sarechtas83get3089 ;  saithedasoigbed 
3771;  nabidis  'na  saitbeadaib  saiti 
sodibraicthi  that  were  in  flights  fixed 
and  well-shot  990.    C.C. 

saithiu,  saigthiu  f .  directing.  Ac  saithin 
a  medar  3239 ;  v.n.  of  saigim.   Wi. 

sál  f.  heel.  7  rosoighedb  re  sail  a  cbeile 
uaidh  3769 ;  co  salaib  sarchruindi 
732. 

salach  filthy,  dirty  907,  1801,  16. 
Salcba  402,  1091,  3,  1957. 

salchar  filth.  Re  lansalchar  1092 ;  co 
salcbar  slama  765. 

samail  f.  likeness,  simile,  kind  227,  303; 
ua  he  samail  Eth.  1602,  2160,  3135; 
ba  samail  lindi  2017 ;  na  hasidid  na 
samla-sa  fair  2187. 

samalta  like,  likely  947,  1284,  1402, 
1453,  1794,  2562,  3497,  3676,  4210, 
4862;  samaltha  4863;  ba  s.  lindi 
1948,  1958;  ba  samulta  2463. 

samla  likeness,  fashion,  guise.  Fan 
samlacetna4642;  fan  samla  sin  879, 
2003,  4741,  9 ;  ban  s.  1989  ;  ban  sam- 
laid-sea  2112;  foil  samlai  sin  3756. 

samlaim  I  liken,  simulate,  pretend, 
feign.  Ipf.  3  p.  co  samlaitis  na  sa- 
cairt  maith  so  that  the  priests  feigned 
good  1371;  pret.  3  s.  ni  rosamail 
3189.    C.C. 

samrad  summer.    I  llo  samraid  1426. 


santaige  f.  keen  desire.  Uair  fa  santaigi 
4521. 

sár-  intensive  inseparable  particle. 
Sarbrisiud  1909. 

sáraigim  /  violate,  offend.  Ipf.  subj. 
3  s.  da  Baraiged  Lad  'man  ingin  2133; 
v.n.  tre  sárugud  M.  3649. 

sár-cengailte  nobly  bound.  Sciath 
suairc  s.  2695. 

sár-chalma^í/ .«/»'/  brave.  Snamaighi 
sarcalma  3566 ;  fuirmed  seidrech 
sarchalma  sleigi  4009. 

sár-chruind  nobly  rounded  732. 

sárech  noble,  great,  mighty.  Ba  suai- 
chinti  sarecha  saercland  3127.  L. 
ingentes  Theb.  vin.  456,  cf.  Gor. 

sár-echt  noble  deed.  Do  digail  na 
sarecht  sin  2882;  g.s.  as  adj.  sar- 
echta  1475  sarechtach  Eg.,  3089. 

sár-echtach  doing  noble  deeds,  fierce, 
deadly  1010,  2171,  2890,  3249,  3262, 
3740. 

sárgal  f.  feat  of  valour.  G.s.  as  adj. 
sargala  3251. 

sár-gile  f.  absolute  whiteness  1453. 

sár-guin  f.  violent,  deadly  wound. 
Arna  sarguin  4210;  g.s.  as  adj.  sar- 
gona  3251. 

sár-láech  m.  noble  hero  3641. 

sár-long  f.  noble  ship,  good  ship 
1976. 

sár-mór  noble  and  great  1286. 

sár-slúag  m.  noble  host  1524. 

sár-thol  f.  master  passion,  love  1628. 

shor,  spor  m.  spur.  I  sboraib  4480; 
o  sporaib  athgera  2367.    C.C. 

scáilim  I  dissolve,  scatter.  Ipv.  2  s. 
scail  4566  ;  ipf.  subj.  3 p.  co  radian- 
scaileat  176;  pret.  3  s.  roscail  977, 
1180,  2605,  3295,  3358;  3  p.  ro- 
dianscaileadar  4096;  rodianscailsed 
4738  ;  rascailsead  1340  ;  rascailset 
2170 ;  pass.  pres.  3  p.  da  scailter 
3446;  p.p.  roscailed  3853;  roscailid 
2741;  co  scailit  3520;  p.p.p.  a  folt 
scailti  3587,  2450;  v.n.  dian-scailiud 
iumum-sa  to  wrest  from  me  1735, 
3748,  4126;  gan  scailiud  3406; 
scailead  4795 ;  ac  scailiud  seel  1606. 

scandraim  I  scatter.  Co  scanrit  3520; 
v.n.  scanrad  4795.    C.C. 

scaraim  I  part  with,  separate  from. 
Pret.  3  s.  rascar  4325 ;  v.n.  a  scarad 
na  mban  sin  ri  aroili  4910;  re  scarad 
1376. 

scáth,  scáith  m.  (1)  shadow,  shade, 
reflection, protection  1204,  6;  arscath 
na  hingine  2129 ;  ar  scath  int  shluaig 
3436.  (2)  demoniacal  form,  horror. 
Amar  scaith  929.  Ir.  T.  1.  295,  19; 
Tbc.  3147. 


409 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


scathaim  I  lop  off.    Pret.  3  s.  roscath- 

astair  977.    Scothaim  Wi. 
see    white-thorn.     G.s.    amar    scaith 

sciath  sciach  929. 
sceindim  I  start,  spring.     Pret.   3  s. 
rosceind    crithel    cirdub    do    teinid 
4358;    cur-sceind  di   amal   carraicc 
4497;  v.n.  scenm  2084.  Sceinm  Wi. 

seel  in.  tale,  tiding*.  Dachuaid  in  seel 
sin  do  2123,  4365;  i  cend  in  sceoil 
1833;  don  seel  3848,  4636;  roscail  in 
seel  sin  3358;  o  'dchualaid  an  seel  sin 
4838;  n.p.  a. p.  scelall64;  atclos  na 
scela  sin  2113,  4633;  co  raindisur  do 
scela  1025,  1181,  1712;  a  scela  do 
cloisteacht  1830;  d'  indisin  na  seel 
sin  4040,  4726;  ag  eisteaclit  risna 
scelaib  sin  1163 ;  dona  scelaib  sin 
2629,  4643 ;  conad  ni  da  scelaib  4922 ; 
o  raindisedar  na  scela  sin  4761 ;  fair- 
faigis  scela  dib  4778. 

scell-bolg-  a  testudo  of  shields.  Scell- 
bolga  do  sciatbaib  1979.    C.C. 

scellbolgda  belonging  to  or  consisting 
of  a  testudo  scutorum ;  tortoise- 
formed.  Taitneni  na  sciath  s.  916, 
scellbolcach  Eg.   Cf.  C.C. 

scellbord  «  tortoise  of  shields.  Sceall- 
bord  do  sciathaib  4107,  scelluolc  Eg. 

sciamda  of  good  appearance,  beautiful 
264.     Scíam  L.  schema  C.C. 

scian  f.  knife.   Do  scin  1154. 

sciath  m.  (1)  shield.  7  sciath  oirderc 
3576;  a  slesaib  an  sceith  4827;  ag 
imirt  a  sceith  985 ;  a  sciath  7  a  cnis 
990, 1034 ;  radaingnigida  sceith  1279 ; 
sceith  cruindi  cabracha  leo  2665, 
2866;  sceith  na  Sceitheagda  4773; 
taitnemna  sciath  916;  scell-bolga  do 
sciathaib  1979;  ina  sciathaib  2173; 
rocraith  a  sceith  2609.  (2)  wing  amar 
scaith  sciath  sciach  929. 

sciath-gloinide  glassy  shield  of  Mi- 
nerva 1204. 

Scillecda  Sicilian  264. 

scis  fatigue,  thirst,  rest,  disaster.  Nir- 
ba  din  ar  scis  3292 ;  dothuit  ar  scis 
1241 ;  re  scis  a  n-imbuailti  2534. 

scith  weary,  fatigued,  tired.  Antan  uo 
scith  i  3697 ;  ua  scitha  a  n-eich  2978 ; 
rouai  truag  scith  4910;  robad  scith 
lim  3263. 

scítheach/rtífV/iícd,  tired  1037. 

scoltaim  I  split.  Pret.  3  s.  co  roscailt 
3294,  roscoilt  Eg. ;  co  rascailt  a  sciath 
4276;  co  roscailt  a  sciath  2854;  v.n. 
ar  scoltad  3675 ;  ar  scaltad  4549. 
Laws. 

Bcothnch  Jlowery,  blooming.    Minsc  35. 

scoth-semair  f.  flower  of  shamrock, 
■white    clover  flower.     Mar    scoith- 


sheamair  3366,  scoth-semur  Eg.    Cf. 

scoth-semrach  Wi. 

scrét  f.  shriek,  scream  2076. 

scribaim  I  write.  Pret.  3s.roscrib  1864. 

scribend  a  writing.    N.p.   scribhinne 

3668 ;  ni  ainnit  scribhenna  4912 ;  ni 

chuimnigid  na  sgribenda  4920.   P.H. 

scrútad  I  ransack,  search.   Ag  sgrudad 

888,  1173. 
scuchim  I  move,  depart.    Pret.  3  s.  no 
cor-scuch  each  2444 ;  3  p.  roscuchsad 
4278;  v.n.  gan  scuchud  3407. 
scuirim  I  cease,  discontinue.    Pret.  3  p. 
0  rascuirsed  4238 ;  rascuirsedar  1943 ; 
p.p.  o  rascuired  sin  2464 ;  scur  don 
chathugud    sin   3264;    v.n.  do  scur 
a  chuma  2207. 
sé  he,  si  she,  p.  siad.    7  seisium  agad 
grennubad-sa  4376;  ar  si  1059,  1062, 
4412;  imar  thainig  si  andsin  4404; 
uair  ni  fagad  si  1342 ;  ar  siad  2546, 
4367;   adubairt  si  1348;    7  siad  ailli 
aladbreca  2294 ;  with  proleptic  use : 
ar  si  in  ingen  1850. 
sé  six.  Co  cend  se  la  7  sé  n-aidchi  1261. 
sebac  hawk  1671.    W.  hebog. 
sech^axi,  beyond:  prep,  with  ace.  (and 
dat.,  especially  in  pi.).     Seach  na 
Grecu  4648;   s.  in  sliab  254;  sech 
imellbord  talman  2196;   sech  aroili 
2300,  2335,  4254;  sech  each  3455; 
sech  araili  2352 ;  seoch  aroili  4003 ; 
'ma  seach  in  turn  4732;  rel.  secha 
tigdis  4819;  with  pronouns  1  s.  sea- 
chum  1231. 
sech  past,  pronominal  cpds.  used  as 
adverbs:  seachum^rixi  me,  besides,  as 
well  as  1231 ;  3  s.  secha  past  him  560, 
2378, 3288, 3418;  sechai3788;  secha 
sin  1775;  p.  xvii;  secha  araili  2444. 
seche  f.   hide.    Do  seitidaib  1280;  do 
seichedaib  1484 ;  do  sechedaib  2695 ; 
a  sechnachaib  2913. 
sechmall    omission,    neglect,   oblivion. 

Sligeda  seachmaill  4648. 

sechnaim  I  avoid.   2  fut.  3  s.  air  sligid 

nach  seithénadh  893,  sechenudh  Eg. 

sechnon  throughout:   prep,  with  gen. 

S.  na  crichi  urairdi  234 ;  s.  in  chatha 

2964  ;  s.  ant  sluaigh  3662  ;  sechnon 

na  cathrach  1615;   na  cailli  1762; 

sechnon  in  domuin  2416. 

sechrán  111.  wandering,  error.   Ar  sech- 

ran  1762,  3870. 

sechránda,  erratic  2359. 

secht  seven.   A  cind  seacht  laithi  1183 ; 

dar  secht  ndoirrsib  3023 ;  secht  údir- 

manda  2251 ;  'ma  secht  rigaib  2252. 

s-echtair  outside,  to  the  outside  764; 

siar  sech tair  away  backwards  2450. 

secht-fhillte     seven-fold,    seven-coiled 


4IO 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


494 ;  asa sciath  suaichnid  sechtfhillti 
3415. 

sechtmad  seventh.  An  s.  ri  do  rigaib 
Greg  one  of  the  seven  kings  of  the 
Greeks  1239,  1303;  co  rob 'e  in 
sechtmad  ri  do  Grecaib  3044;  -  ua 
he  in  s.  t'er  Acharnam  2478  ;  conadh 
e  in  sechtmad  righ  xx  rouai  4914. 

seg  milk,  sap,  moisture  2048.   P.H. 

seic  he,  she  indecl.  Is  amlaid  robai 
seic  2114,  3158 ;  rogob  seic  2355 ; 
romarbh  seic  a  mathair  802 ;  ua 
he-sseic  3791 ;  rathairring  seig  973  ; 
iseiseig3910;  foe  seic  2305;  rabadar 
seig  3907,  1088;  f.  1046,  4574;  is  i 
seic  2008,  3692  ;  and-seig  3031 ;  riu- 
seigl292;  each  dib-seic  1791 ;  daib- 
seig  1187 ;  tuc  sec  2858 ;  rouadar  sec 
1456 ;  ina  diaid  sec  2350 ;  is  amlaid 
robui  seic  2557;  cid  iat  sec  3886; 
rotinoil  sideic  1717. 

seiser  six  men.  Coma  seiser  sarlsech 
3435. 

séitim.  sétim  I  blow,  flow.  V.  con- 
séitim. 

sel  a  sjjace,  distance  of  time  or  place 
667,  884,  1630,  1;  sel  o  mur  2646; 
tastais  seal  4417;  sel  fada  2476; 
robui  seal  'ga  fhegud  3324 ;  seal  ar- 
sithsillead  4216. 

selad  a  little  xehile  1785,  sealat  Eg. 

seic,  seig  f.  hunt.    Ac  seile  3755. 

selca  f.  hunt.  In  n-enad  selga  1541 ;  a 
haithle  a  sealca  3697;  isint  selca 
354,  isint  elcai  Eg. ;  soighde  eath- 
aille  sealca  3808. 

selcairecht  f.  hunting  craft.  Banndei 
na  selcairechta  3692. 

selgaire  m.  hunter.  7  ua  selcaire  amra 
3692 ;  sealgaireada  875.    C.C. 

sémanna  rivets  3434.    Séimm  C.C. 

sémide  slender,  delicate,  refined.  Co 
griananaib  seimidhi  40;  cris  socair 
seimidhe  3737  ;  co  sliastaib  semidib 
731.   Acall. 

sémnech  riveted.  Urchur  do  sleig 
seimnig  1010 ;  in  lini  sleg  semnech 
2823.    JEn. 

sen  old.  D'  og  na  do  shin  1137;  ider 
og  7  shen  4214;  compar.  7  ba  sine  I. 
ina  P.  2441. 

sen-athair  m.  grandfather.  Dot  shen- 
athir-se  3597;  fadbarm  a  senathar 
2217,  2651;  g.p.  seanathar  707;  ac 
admolad  a  n-engnuma  a  senaithrech 
2992. 

senchas  history.  Iar  sithsenchasa 
3971;  comachtach  cianaesta  sen- 
chasa  3570. 

sen-chathair  f.  old  city.  Sechnon  na 
sencathrach  4128. 


sendim  I  play,  sound,  blow  (trumpet). 

P.p.    (pres.)   3   p.    roseindid   4124; 

.rosendit  fetana  2225 ;   pret.  3  s.  co 

raseind  sdocc  4307;  v.n.   'ca  senm 

1425,  2118;  do  senm  514;  ac  seinm 

a  sduicc  4308;  do  sheinm  851. 
sen-máthair  f.  grandmother  3804. 
senóir  m.  senior,  eld  man  1183,  1190, 

1680,   3884,  4556;    in    seonor   618; 

n.p.    seanoraig     1373    senora    Eg., 

1911,  2264,  4455. 
senórda  aged,  venerable  411,  476,  711. 
senórdacht  f.  seniority,  old  age  168. 

C.C. 
senta  antiquated,  effete  1597;  sendai 

old,  decrepit  P.H. 
sentacht  f.  old  age  168. 
seól  m.  course.    'Na  seol  risin  sruth 

3547. 
seólaim  I  course,  direct.    Pres.  3  s.  seol- 

aid-seam  3193 ;  ipv.  2  p.  seolaid  4499  ; 

pret.    3  s.    co    roseol    2489;    roseol 

chuici    3292,    3675;    seolais   4495; 

v.n.  ar  na  seolad  3429;    'ca  seolad 

4473. 
seól-crand  m.  mast  of  a  ship  63,  1946, 

1970 ;  co-ma  samalta  re  seolchrand 

2562. 
serb-sróin  bitter-nosed  3262.    C.C. 
sere  f.  love  223. 
serig  strong  396.    C.C. 
sesam  m.  standing.  Ina  sheasam  1819 ; 

rouadar  'na  sesam  2937 ;  co  tarla  'na 

sesum  asa  sciath  3415 ;  no  co  facaidh 

ant  slegh  'na  sesam  eisti  3552. 
seselbach  tumultuous.    Co  tigib  sesel- 

bacha  Mairt  2601 . 
sésilbe  f.  tumult.  Coma  seselbi  1803; 

re  seiselbi  2200  seiselb  Eg.;  tresin 

seiseilbi    1336,     307,    1641,    1950, 

4128 ;  caiscid  bar  seiselbi  1734 ;  roas 

sestan    7  seselb   2790;    seiselb  460. 

Fel.2 
sesmach  upstanding,  upright,  on  end. 

Uasesmacha  trillsi  109l',  1517,  2738, 

2913  ;  co  sesmach  2392,  3052. 
sesrech  team  of  six.    G.s.  feidm  seis- 

rigi  942.    Tbc.  p.  382. 
sestan   m.  alarm,   clatter,  shout,    din 

307,   460,    1950,  2736;  re   s.  2199; 

roas  s.  2790;  re  heisteacht  s.  4127; 

o  'dchualaid  sestan  7  medair  4651. 
set  m.  gem,  treasure.     In  set  sirbhuan 

764;  seoid  7  maine  2465,  2542;  na 

cathid  uar  seoid  2236  ;  tairbert  set  7 

maine  2408. 
set  way.   G.s.    seta  245;    ar  set   na 

sliged  2361 ;  ar  setaib  na  s.  sin  304. 
séta  long  1472 ;  asa  meraib  seta  sith- 

geala  4473 ;    do   slegaib   seta  3060. 

Tbc. 


411 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


sétach  wealthy  77. 

sétfedach  panting.  Re  heistecbt  sit- 
rech  7  setfedach  2332.    C.C. 

set- fine  tribe-treasure,  family  heirloom. 
7  sedfine  na  fer  sin  'na  laim  4575. 

séthar,  sáethar  toil,  labour  3409. 

sétrech  strong  396,  1380,  2501;  tuc 
fuirmed  seidrech  sarchalma  sleigi 
4009;  co  seitreach  943,  2817.    C.C. 

sétugnd  driving,  showing  (the  way). 
Ac  s.  carpaid  A.  2900;  re  setugud 
sliged  2055.    C.C. 

siangal  croaking*,  hootings.  Ac  sian- 
gail  183.    C.C. 

s-iar  backwards,  to  the  Went,  west- 
wards 698,  1168,  2450,  4907. 

Bib  ye,  you  1866;  comad  buidni  bid- 
bad  sib  2144 ;  co  buigbed  sibsi  2180  ; 
na  lecar  i  comfhacus  sib  2460;  ni 
misi  tendas  na  tindesnaiges  sib 
2710;  ger-sa  miscais  cos  aniu  sib 
4566 ;  ca  drochciall  imluaigis  sib 
1315. 

sibal,  siubal  m.  moving,  progressing. 
Ar  sibal  233,  4389;  sirsibul  2737; 
g.s.  sibail  245 ;  ac  siubal  1787,  3108; 
ag  trenshibal  4472. 

siblach,  siublach  moving, flowing,  sirit't 
1759;  co  siblach  2358,  3492;  a  ech 
siblach4389;  lansiblach  4532.  Acall. 

siblu  f.  thorn,  pin,  brooch.  A.s.  roth- 
aimig  int  siblaind  2436.    Cf.  Wi. 

sibsanach  sound  made  hg  toads  and 
frogs,  croaking.  Ic  sibsanaig  183. 
C.C. 

sid  m.  peace.  Na  dentar  in  sid  2764; 
no  an  sid  rosirfead  1185 ;  sith  suthain 
2755,  4901;  ni  bl  sid  na  suba  4373; 
bandei  int  shida  .i.  Pax  4485  ;  a 
comartha  sida  883,  2008,  9;  ar 
femed  sida  2794 ;  i  sidh  1232 ;  dena 
sith  ret  brathair  2757. 

sídamail,  sithamail^c«c<:/'«Z  4486;  ba 
sidamail  trá  4788;  sitharaail  71 J . ; 
do  briathraib  suarca  sithamla  2754. 

side  blast,  gust.  Luaithigther  re  sidi 
nglasfuar  ngaithi  2402 ;  re  sidi 
ngaithi  ngexnreta  2446.    The.  430. 

-side  that.  An  emphasising  pronoun 
referring  to  a  person  mentioned.  De- 
sidi  2151 ;  is  do-side  1688,  2360 ;  ua 
nesa  do-siden  2350 ;  aicci-side  1692 ; 
nech  dib-side  2351;  iad-side  1845; 
andside  3033,  5,  7. 

sideic  id.  Robai  sideic  1786;  dia 
frithailem  sideic  2456. 

Sigile  f.  Sic  Hi/.  Da  sleibtib  na  Sigili, 
1287,  9,  1298. 

sil  seed,  stock,  race.  Don  shil  rigda 
4153 ;  do  shil  cosnamach  4583 ;  do 
shil  calma  3129,  4150;  do  sil  calma 


304,   959,  1513,  2666,  4147;  ba  da 

sil  do  2557. 
silaim   I  sow.    Pret.  3  s.  ar-silastair 

1639;  p.p.p.  cor-ba  silta  3434;  v.n. 

a  silad  in  air  sin  68.   Wi. 
silim   /   drop,   distil.     Pret.    3  p.    na- 

shildis  368  ;   roshilestar  3841 ;    v.n. 

re  siliud  403. 
sillim  I  look,  (dance.   Pret.  3  s.  sillisfair 

3210 ;  3  s.  in  silliud  rosill  3288,  3296 ; 

rashill    4011 ;     arar-silleastair-sium 

317  ;  v.n.  m.  7  in  silliud  3288  ;  sillead 

4829;    ac   silliud   1922;    sochain   ri 

sillad  3743  ;  ac  sillead  7  ac  sirsillead 

475;    ni  rosamail  silliud  3189;    re 

silliud  764,  2015. 
sin  that.    (1)  with  art. :  na  firu  sin  935 ; 

na  curaid  sin  1340 ;  an  tan  sein  1846. 

(2)  with  pronouns :  dib  sin  958 ;  di 

sin  3215;  uaithib  sin  1195.     (3)   as 

independent  pronoun ;   o  sen  amach 

1928  ;  a  sin  1022 ;  Et  adchondairc 

sin  na  firu  sin  935 ;  eatorru  sin  2312  ; 

ger-ba   sacart    sin   3166 ;    is   cuma 

adbert-sam  sain  4032 ;    asa  haithli 

sin  971 ;  o  adubairt-sium  sin  1083 ; 

o  chualaid  Pers  sin  1202;  comnesa 

do  sin  2294. 
sinim  I  stretch.     Ipf.  3  s.  rosinead-si 

904;    pret.   3  s.    rosin-sium    3637; 

rosin  2452,  3537,  4568;  3  p.  roshin- 

set-sium  404. 
sinn  we.   Sindi  674. 
sinomum  cinnamon  2212. 
sir-  long.   Compar.  sia,  ni  as  sia  2919. 
sir-adbol  ever  abundant.   Co  s.  3066. 
sír-álaind  ever  beautiful.   Co  sruth  s. 

2722. 
sir-ard  very  high  294. 
sir-bnuan  everlasting  764. 
sir-buaidirthe  ever  troubled  1801. 
sir-chalma  ever  brave  943,  2817. 
sir-chelgach  ever  guileful  1380. 
sir-chotlad  m.  lasting  sleep  375  ;  ina 

sirchotlod  269  ;  asa  sirchodlud  643 ; 

suan  sircotalta  606 ;  co  rortoit  a  suan 

7  a  sirchodlud  2989,  3902. 
sír-chuindchidcíív  seeking.  G.s.  saint 

sirchuindcheda    793;    v.n.    of   con- 

daigim. 
sir-dechain  ever  gazing.   Ac  sirsillead 

475,  sirdechain  Eg. 
sir-domain  very  deep  3640. 
sir-dorcna  ever  dark  1658. 
sirech  ham,  hocktf).    Co  rrotrenletair 

a  sirigh  3829  ;  cornipedisque  fugam 

succiso  poplite  sistit  Theb.  ix.  874. 
sír-égem   f.    continual   iceeping.     Sir- 

egim  627,  sir-egem  Eg. ;  ac  sireigium 

1788.    TSh. 
sir-fhata  exceeding  long  1970. 


412 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


sír-forfháilid    very    elate   3973 ;    sir- 

forbfseilid  4043. 
sir-gairm  ever  calling.    Ac  s.  a  mic 

3588. 
sir-garb  ever  rough  2392. 
sír-glór  long -continued  noise.   G.s.  sir- 

gloir  1337. 
sir-grendachad    m.   ever    challenging 

4406. 
sirini  /  seek,  ask.   1  s.  sirim  3312 ;  2  p. 

sirmid  864  ;  3  p.  sirit  4688 ;  ipv.  2  p. 

skid  4669 ;  fut.  3  s.  an  sid  rosirfead 

1185,   4013;    pret.  3  s.   rasir    1622; 

doshir  4835  ;  dosir  1203  ;  v.n.  gan  a 

sirtbain  34;  ag  siredb  in  áir  4695; 

ac  siriurn  1787. 
sir-imrádud  m.  constant  thinking 1343, 

4329. 
sir-imsnim  lasting  anxiety  2988. 
sir-inmaine  lasting  affection  223. 
sir-lúatb  ever  swift  876. 
sír-mór  very  great  1970. 
sir-senm  always  playing.    Ac  sirsenm 

a  chruiti  2313. 
sír-sháiti  always  fixed  2913. 
sir-shiublacn  ever  moving.     Co  seas- 

macb  sirsbiublacb  3052. 
sir-sibul     always     moving,     constant 

agitation.    Sestan    7  s.    2737,    sir- 

siubal  Eg. 
sir-sruth  in.  running  stream  1781. 
sir-thoirse   lasting   sadness.     Ag   sir- 

tboirrsi  4455. 
sír-úallacb  very  proud,  gay  2829. 
sír-uar,  sir-fhuar  ever  cool.     Siblacb 

siruar  1759. 
s-is  downwards,  down  1253, 1528, 1966 ; 

so  sis  here  below  4753. 
sit-gal  f.  complaining,  sighing,  panting 

409  ;  re  sitgail  na  saebgaithi  sin  1972 ; 

siotghail  grumbling  to  be  petted  Din. 
sitn-archar  lasting  ruin.     Sith-arcbar 

2797,  L  7  si  talchar  Eg.    Airchor  G. 

add.  p.  vii. 
sith-fada    very    long,    long    extending 

2823,  4498. 
sith-gel  long  and  white,  ever  white  3842 ; 

asa  meraib  seta  sitbgeala  4473. 
sith-gorm  long  and  blue  1962 ;  urcbur 

saigdi  sitbguirmi  2312,  2347. 
sithil  bucket,  chalice,  cup  44,  48.  Sitbal 

Wi. 
Sithriu  Syrians.  Thiri  na  Sitbriu  2214. 
sith-senchas  m.  age-long  history,  con- 
sistent tradition.     Iar  sitbsenchasa 

gentligi  3971. 
sith-sillim  I  gaze.  Ipf .  pass.  3  s.  seal  ar- 

sitbsillead  4216  ;  v.n.  sitb-sbilled  m. 

667 ;  sithsilleadb  884 ;  'ga  sitbsbellad 

2048,  sitbsillad  Eg. 
sitir,  sitrech  f.  neighing.    Ee  bestecbt 


sitrecb    2331.      Sitir,    sitricb    McB. 

Din. 
aitled  filtering,  draining,  bleeding  ('.'). 

Arna  sitled'l911;  aga  sitladh  4238, 

aga  sithleodb  Eg.    Wi. 
siur  f.  sister.     Is  aigi  ata  a  sbiur  ac 

astad  4323;   siur  na  macsin  4401; 

n.s.  siur  Mairt  1877,  3247;  siur  P. 

4713,4720 ;  g.s.  do  iarraidb  a  sbeatbar 

22 ;  dochum  a  setbar  4320 ;  snim  a 

saetbar4640;  d.s.  rothaisben  da  Biair 

1864;  ara  siair4318;  re  siair-si  7'Jl ; 

a.s.  muna  faghbad  a  sbiair  23,  31 ; 

v.s.  a  shiur  inmain  3231 ;  a  siur  i. 

3174;  n.p.  ataid  seathracba  4671. 
siut,  sud  there,  yonder.    Ag  siud  1234, 

1236,  4468;  and  sud  2658;  gabadb 

eia  sud  4717 ;  ni  sud  consirther  4921. 
slabrad  m.  chain  1052;  co  slabradaib 

464,  1550;  tresna  s.  4102.    Tbc. 
slabradach   having  chains.     Cathbarr 

slemon  slabradacb  3741. 
slaige  f .  hewing.    Ac  slaigi  3276,  3946 ; 

ac    slaigi    gasraidi    Grec   289 1 ;    ac 

sluigbi  3814,  3819;  7  rabai  'ga  slaigi 

3946 ;   rofopair  da  cois   sluigbi  na 

sluagb  3553. 
slaigim  I  smite,  hew.    Ipf.  3  s.  each 

conair  ina  slaiged  in  sluag  2869.    C.  C. 
sláinte   f.   health  806,   808;    7   slainti 

duitsi  4344. 
slám  f.  slime.    Co  salcbar  slama  765, 

slaim  Eg.    O'R. 
slamrad  f.  slippery  mass,  clot.    La  s. 

4284  Eg.    .En.  161,  cf.  Tbc.  p.  373. 
slán  whole,  healthy,  full.    Coma  slan 

1147 ;  7  si  slan  2159 ;  7  misi  slan  dar 

tb'  eis  3376 ;  co  cosgrach  slan  so- 

menmnacb  3894. 
slatrach,  Bln.dTa.ch foundation,  bedrock. 

Asa  slatracb   4267,   slagdracb  Eg., 

asa  sleedraigib  277 ;   asa  sludraigib 

3021.  C.C.,  O'Cl. 
slébemail  hilly  198. 
sléb-tech  hill-house.    Slesa  na  slebteg 

4819,  sligbedb  Eg. 
sleg  i'.n.   spear.    A    tugadb   int   sleag 

1159;  cor-thuit  an  sleg  4007;  crand 

na  sleigi  926 ;  slenand  na  sleigi  sin 

4864;   urcbur  do  sleig  1010,  3786; 

bertnaigis  ant  sleig  n-agmair  4878; 

togbais  Tbeis  an  sleg  4861 ;  p.  slega 

3251 ;  n.p.  slega  suainmeacba  1270, 

4110;  slega  rindgera  1414;  7  na  slega 

1909;  ag  crotbad  na  sleg  4406;  d.p. 

ona  slegaib  4210 ;  a.p.  rocraitb  a  slega 

2609;  do  slegaib  3060;  tucsat  frais 

do  sblegbaibb  3658. 
sleimredach   slobbering   907,    slaimre- 

dacb  Eg.    A  slamrad  a  fbola  .En. 

161. 


413 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


slemon  smooth.  Catlibarr 
slemon  3741;  na  sligthi  sleamna 
3484;  comdais  salcha  sleamna  402. 

sleman-gér  smooth  and  sharp.  Co  s. 
4442. 

sleman-gorm  smooth  and  hluc  1731. 

slemnaigim  I  make  smooth.  Pf.  p.  3  p. 
roslemnaigid  1271.    C.C. 

sliab  m.f.  n.  mountain.  Sliab  n-Ethna 
1834;  sliab  ard  1197;  mullach  an 
sleibi  sin  1199,  2314;  aireachta  slebe 
E .  2673 ;  dar mullach  sleibi  tirmglaine 
1177,  2604;  dar  mullach  tsleibi  Par- 
nars  3714 ;  a  taeb  ant  sleibi  1297  ; 
asin  sliab  1208;  sech  in  sliab  254; 
o  sleb  1718 ;  dar  sleib  3714 ;  co  riach- 
tadar  sliabh  4675 ;  do  sleib  4648 ;  slesa 
na  sleibteg  4819;  isint  sleib  4682; 
isint  shleib  510;  i  sleib  4608;  ua 
samalta  ri  sliab  948;  contairnitis  na 
slebti  1463 ;  da  sleibtib  1286 ;  slebtib 
1391,  3136. 

sliasait  thigh.  G.s.  a  mbun  a  sliasta 
1723;  oo  sliastaib  731. 

slibaim  I  polish.  P.p.  3  p.  raslibaid 
1271 ;  p.p.p.  sliptha  1731 ;  slipta  3576 ; 
v.n.  ar  na  shlibadh  4442.  Cf.  slipad 
C.C. 

slige  f.  way,  path.  Co  roib  sligi  a 
ohuirp  ar  na  loscad  4281 ;  ar  setaib 
na  sliged  sin  304,  1793;  comartha 
sliged  1919  ;  air  sligid  nach  seithén- 
adh  893 ;  isin  sligid  1477, 1920, 4651 ; 
isna  sligthib  882 ;  ba  tairmeasc 
dosum  na  sligthi  sleamna  3484; 
tugsadar  I.  sligeda  sechmaill  4648. 

slindén  shoulder-blade.  O  slindenaib 
1528. 

slinn  the  flat  of  a  spear,  blade.  Soillsi 
slendand  na  sleigi  sin  4864  Eg.    C.C. 

Slis  m.  side.  N.p.  4209;  slesa  na  sleib- 
teg 4818;  a  slesaib  4827,  2824;  ar 
sleasaib  708,  858;  im  slesaib  2260. 

sloindim  I  name,  designate.  P.  pres. 
3  s.  ni  ho  athair  sloinnter  in  mac 
4803. 

slondud  m.  making  known  one's  patro- 
nymic name,  family  name,  surname, 
origin,  derivation,  lineage  106,  124 ; 
g.s.  ac  iarraid  a  sloindti  105;  ac 
slondad  charadraid  I.  4356  ;  dorigne 
a  sloindead  di  4722. 

slúag  m.  host.  Nidad  daini  in  sluag 
cusa  soichi  3350;  lin  int  sloig  1397 
1741,  1795,  3038;  dirma  sloig  1556 
1586;  i  fiadnaisi  int  [s]luaig  2157 
n.p.  na  sluaig  964,  1386,  1495,  2198, 
4794,  4811,  4865;  7  ua  hiat  sluaig 
1428;  na  sarsloig  1524;  as  iad  ba 
sloig  2425 ;  a  sloigh  3870,  4076 ;  ar 
na  slogaib  1740 ;  ar  na  sluagaib  1886, 


3289 ;  tresna  sluagaib  3429 ;  cor-gres 

na  sluagu  3223,  3349. 
slúagad  m.  a  hosting.   Isin  s.  sin  1578 ; 

da  s.  4794;  arin  sluaiged  sin  3011. 
sluagda  massed,  "bunched"  2276. 
slugad-chacnom  swallowing  and  chew- 
ing 603.    Sluccad-chocnom  Aisl. 
sluicim,  sluigim  I  swallow.   Ipf.  subj. 

3  s.  co  sluigeadh  906;  pret.  3  s.  rosluic 

2942;  p.p.  rosluiged  201;  rosluiced 

3640;  v.n.  ac  slucad  2970.    Wi. 
smacht  m.  rule,  discipline,  decree.    Is 

é  cets.  rigi  4586. 
smur-chaigilt  f.  drift-raking,  ash-rak- 
ing 2812.    V.  rnur.   Cagailt  f.  O'E., 

McB.,  coigilt  f.  TSh.,  cocill  C. 
snadmaim  I  betroth,  knot.   Pret.  3  p. 

rashnaimsed  sith  4901.    C.C. 
snadmandach  knotted,  linked.    A  lure- 

cha  salcha  snadmandacha  1957. 
snaidim   I  cut,    sued.     P.p.p.    garbh- 

snoighthe  3674 ;  garbsnoidi  1475. 
snáim  I  swim.    Ipf.  3  s.  rosnoed  1531, 

rosnoidh  Eg.;  3  p.  consnsetis  1909; 

v.n.  rotrialldais  snám  3517 ;  ac  snam 

3567. 
snámaige    m.    swimmer.      Snamaighi 

3565 ;  an  snamaigi  soinemail  4084. 
snasta  trimmed,  lopped,  brave,  gallant. 

Coma  snasta  (sic  I.)  datba  3072;  na 

saighdi  snasta  1984.    C.C. 
snáth  m.  a  thread.    Do  snath  alaind 

orda  2214;    d'  or-snath  2419;    inar 

orsnaith  3735.   Wi. 
snáthe   thread,    fillet.     Ag  snim    ant 

snaithi  1322;  snaitheada  281,  1209, 

1318.   P.H. 
snechtasííoií;.  Samalta  re  snechta  1453. 
snechtaide   snowy.    Comdais   sneach- 

taidi  na  faieheada  3065. 
snechtamail  snowy,  snow-white  3842. 
snigim  I  drip.  Pret.  3  p.  7  rus-snigestar 

frasa   2176 ;  Ipf.  3  p.  co  nusnigdis 

1034    consnighdis    Eg.,   co    snigtis 

1374 ;   v.n.   re  snigi  403 ;   ac  snigi 

2249.    Songs  of  Summer. 
snim   twisting,   anxiety,  distress  627, 

1162,    1847,    1947,    4329;    ag   snim 

ant   snaithi    1322;    ré    snim   1343; 

batar  snlma  aile  1597 ;  robadar  snima 

7  sirimsnima  2987. 
snimach  twisted,  spun,  anxious,  diffi- 
cult,   elaborate    1380,    1994,    2246, 

4455. 
snithi  -  snadmandach     thread  -  knotted 

1487.    Snadmach  C.C. 
snuad  river.    Ee  snuadallus  na  henna 

2338.    Wi. 
so  tliis,  these.   An  bail  atad  so  4856. 
so  here.  Toichestal  na  mban  n-Grecach 

so  sis  here  below  4753. 


414 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


b6 younger.  L.iuvenis.iunior.  Induine 
as  só  4147;  fa  hé  sin  fa  só  4152. 
Aur.  Li.  and  sub  voc. 

so(a)im  /  turn.  P.p.  3  s.  rosoad  78; 
rasoad  771. 

socair  easy,  quiet,  plain,  smooth  1384, 
2279;  cris  socair  3736;  grega  socra 
2275.    C.C. 

sochaide  f.  multitude,  crowd.  Gid 
sochaidi  docbodail  1340;  is  sochaide 
2683 ;  ag  srainead  na  sochaidi  984 ; 
slúaig  7  sochaidi  1386,  2647. 

so-cháin  very  beautiful.  Coma  sochain 
ri  sillad  3742.    Tbc. 

sochar  m.  profit,  advantage.  Ar  socar 
d'  fadbail  da  athardaib  4169. 

so-charthanach  lovely,  attractive  2015, 
2033. 

so-chenél  well-born.  Is  daine  suarca 
sochenel  sib  422,  sochinelacha 
Eg. 

so-chenélach  well-born,  of  good  race, 
noble  225,  334,  5,  429,  660,  2035, 
2824;  so-chinelach  9,  12,  959,  1303. 

sochenélaige  f.  good  birth,  noble  descent 
432. 

sochinélche  f.  <iood  birth,  high  descent 
1113. 

so-chonách  pood  success:  g.s.  as  adj. 
prosperous,  wealthy.  Ua  saidbir  so- 
chonaig  1927;  conichaitheam  do 
flaithiusa  sochonaigh  681.  So- 
chonách  good  success  C.C,  Ir.  T.  3. 

sochraid well-formed,  beautiful,  honour- 
able. Ger-ua  sochraid  2033;  bas  s. 
3709. 

soenraide  f.  ally,  allies.  'Ma  roibi  an 
shochraidi  sin  4824 ;  lin  na  soehraidi 
sin  1421;  d.s.  i  s.  1396,  1477,  81; 
a  s.  4305,  4804 ;  a.s.  roairim  each  a 
soehraidi  2271 ;  n.p.  sochraideda 
1386;  soehraidi  1586;  fuilled  sluag 
7  soehraidi  4796;  cona  sochraidib 
2633.    C.C, -En.  691. 

so-chreitmech  believing,  trustful,  pious 
711. 

socht  silence  1161,  1732;  socht  mor 
2509.    V.  tocht. 

sochtaim  I  keep  silence.  Pret.  3  s.  ro- 
socht  1766,  2972  ;  rosocht  air  silence 
fell  on  3364,  4050;  abs.  sochtais 
4231,  4594,  4652,  4679. 

socra  ease,  quiet.  Is  lor  dit  bith  i  socra 
2141. 

sodanach  prosperous,  happy.  Bad  so- 
danaich  sargala  7  sargona  slega  C. 
prosperous  were  the  spears  of  C  for 
feats  of  valour  and  deadly  wounding 
3251.    Sodan.FeZ.2 

so-dibrucud  m.  well-casting,  well-shot. 
G.s.  as  adj.  so-dibraicthe  924,  990, 


1270,  1985,  2085,  3087,  4111 ;  sodiu- 

braici  3821. 
so-érmach   well-coursing   1384,    1554, 

2280,  4389;   a.p.  sofhermaig  2276. 

Erim  course  C. 
soichsinach   visible,  conspicuous  1302. 

So-fhaicsiona  Din. 
soillse  f.  light.    Ua  soillsi  317;  noco 

facaid    hit    soillsi   315 ;    ruithnigud 

rosoillsi  1988;  re  rind  roglan  soillsi 

4864;  ré  soillsi  in  esea  917,  3929. 
soillsigim  I  light  up.    Pret.  3  s.  ro- 

soillsig  4698  ;  3  p.  co  rasoillsigsead 

saignena  4269;   p.p.  consoillsiugad 

an  mag  4864 ;  v.n.  um  soillsiugud 

4697. 
sóim   I  turn.    P.p.   3  s.   rasoed  771; 

raseeed  2097. 
soim  rich  225.    Wi. 
so-imtheacnt.    G.s.  as  adj.:  so-imthe- 

chta  easily  traversed,  passable  254, 

882,  1464. 
sóine,    sáine  f.  distinction,   specialty. 

Gid  eTTrafuil  soni  ngrada  2323;   o 

soine  gotha  moir  4185.    P.H. 
soinmech,  sonmech  prosperous  77 ;  son- 

mech  410.    TSh. 
soliniHirslcy.  Cosolin2424Eg.o-Ati'ov. 
sollamain  £.  solemnity,  festival.    Sol- 

lamna  saineamla  2986. 
sollus  bright.   Ba  soillsi  slesa  sleibteg 

4818. 
solus    m.    light.     O    thainictra    solus 

2195. 
solus-glan   bright   and   shining  3026, 

3260. 
solusta  bright,  splendid  266,  871,  958, 

1210,  1426,  2519,  3088,  3574.    C.C 
so-main  benefit,  advantage.   A.p.  nach 

iad  dochaith  a  maithius  7  a  somaine 

4582.    C.C. 
so-memna  f.  joy,  magnanimity.   Mad 

suba  7  somenma  679 ;  regairib  suba 

7  somenman  3002;   adchualadar  in 

somenmain    4768,    int    somenmain 

Eg.   P.O'C. 
so-menmnach   glad,   in  good  spirits, 

cheerful  239,  1524,  1595,  1812. 
somescda  drunken,  intoxicated  1726. 
sona  lucky,  fortunate,  happy,  prosper- 
ous 476,  575,  838. 
sonaid  happy,  prosperous.   Sluaig  said- 

bri  sonaidi  2663.    Trip.,  ef.  sonaidhe 
Din. 
so-nairt  strong,  brave,  firm  429,  942, 

2980. 
so-nairte  f.  strength,  firmness  2222. 
sona-shercach  bringing  success  in  love 

764. 
sond,  sonn  m.  stake,  hero.  Rothinoilit 
a  shuind  chatha  2637. 


/ 


415 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


so-niucar  f/ood  match  in  marriage  504; 
ef.  nuachor  in.  f.  bridegroom,  bride 
O'Cl.  G.s.  ion-nuachair  Ir.  T.  n. 
2  heft  179  ;  ard-nuachar  splendid 
match,  Acall.  748;  so-nuachar.  Din. 
Cf.  Cym.  neithawr,  L.  nuptialia. 
sonrud,  sain-red  specialty.    Do  sonrud 

especially  152,  545. 
so-óla potable,  drinkable  1781,  3580. 
so-réidli  smooth  254. 
sossad  dwelling,  abode,  seat  1220;  a.p. 

sostal658.  Wi. 
sotal  proud,  haughty  660,  1303,  1423, 
2890;  isna  longportaib  sotla  1726. 
Wi. 
so-thoglaide  easily  assailable  1597. 
Spinx   f.    Sphinx  900,    1417;    Spinxs 

936;  facoimnesa  di  902 
spraic  f.    reprimand,  reproof,  stirring 
up.      Dorigni     spraic     moir    2949. 
McB.,  C.G. 
sráiglim  I  scourge.  L.  flagello.   Pf.  3  s. 
cu   rasrailleastair   948;    sraoilleadb 
TSh..Wi. 
sráinim  I defeat,  turn,  drag,  overwhelm. 
Pret.  3  s.'cu  rasrain  948,  999,  4120; 
co  rasraineastair  in  luing  1962  ;  pf. 
pass,  is  bee  na  rosrainit  3021 ;  v.n. 
ag  srainead  984;  ac  srainiud  1589; 
re  srainiud  390.    G.C. 
sráit  í.  street.    Sraiteada  403. 
sreb-uaine  having  a  green  channel.  Co 
sruth  siralaind  sribuaine  2722.   Sreb 
a     channel,    stream     C.C.,     sreabh 
stream  TSh.,  sreb-dian  rapid-flooded 
M.R.  104  y. 
sren  a  wheezing,  snoring,  sighing  p.  xv. 

O'R.,  O'Dav.  No.  1486. 
sreng  f.  a  string,  bowstring.  Eochuir 
a  sreang  an  slait  3821 ;  rnar  saigid 
a  sreing  2327;  ac  cur  na  soigbdi 
arin  sreing  3822 ;  re  sseigid  a  sreng 
3429. 
srengaim  I  pull,  tear.    V.n.  da  srean- 

gad  603.  Wi. 
sreng-luath  having  swift  string,  swift 

from  string  3287. 
sreth  range,  rank,  row.    Co  tri  srethaib 

2066. 

srethad   m.  arranging    in  rank.    Aca 

sreathad    'na    timchell   644.     R.C. 

xxvi.  63. 

srian  bridle,  rein.    Ar  sibal  ina  srian 

4389;  n.p.  7  cu  racomraigedar  srein 

na  heachraidi  4506 ;  roleigsed  a  srein 

4479  ;  re  gloraib  na  srian  2332.  Laws. 

srianach  bridled,  ha  ring  bridles.    Ara 

echaibh  srianacha  1554. 
srían-álaind  having  beautiful  bridles 

2275. 
srian-mir  bridle-piece.    Comtis  sinta  a 


srianmirenda  2381 ;  ac  fosenm  na 
srianmirend  2341 ;  ac  fosbenm  na 
srianmireand  3064. 

sróll  m.  velvet,  satin.  Mergeda  maith- 
sroill  4867. 

sróllach  made  of  velvet  or  satin.  Da 
mergedaib  suarca  srollaigi  2801. 

srón  f.  nose.     Dar  a  sroin  2414. 

srothaide  abounding  in  streams,  tc ell- 
watered  1287. 

sruitheta  old,  venerable,  honoured  711 ; 
nir-ba  sruitheada  a  n-aideda  3167 ; 
sacart  sruitheata  3196. 

sruth  m.  stream  1297,  1809,  3580 ;  ar 
bru  srotha  1389  ;  aitrebaid  int  srotha 
1432,  3515;  tonna  srotha  T.  3602, 
4734 ;  dei  ant  srotha  3573  ;  ag  sruth 
thondglan  4658;  on  sruth  1230; 
risin  sruth  3547;  at  iat  so  srotha 
1559;  a.p.  srotha  285,  1035,  2925; 
risna  srothaib  falcmara  3484,  3054. 

sruthán  m.  streamlet.  Sruthana  286  ; 
'na  sruthanaib  fala  1611. 

sruth-glas  ha  ring  a  green  stream  1659. 

sruth-lecud  free  course,  steeple-chase 
1811. 

stiúrad m.gu iding, steering.  Ac stiurad 
na  lunga  sin  2005. 

stiúraige  m.  steersman  305. 

stocc  m.  trumpet.  N.s.  risir-sinnedh 
sdocc  1335;  co  roibi  a  sdocc  fas 
4310;  a.s.  coraseind  sdocc  4307;  ag 
seinm  a  sduicc  4309;  n.p.  stuicc 
chatha  1545 ;  na  heist-siu  risna  stoc- 
caib  1331,  1334;  da  stocaib  croda  T^ 
2800;  o  'tchualaich  na  stuccu  1425, 
2118;  roseindid  a  sduicc  4124.   ^En. 

stuag  f.  arcli.  Ana  sduaig  moir  4546; 
'na  stuaig  bodba  2502;  inna  s.  ag- 
mair  2848,  4231 ;  dorinne  stuagh 
luib  moir  di  62. 

suaibrenach  stinking,  fetid.  A.p.  sro- 
tha suaibrenacha  1659. 

suaicninte,  suaithinte,  suaichinta  Eg. 
well-known,  consjneuous  266,  412, 
1090,  1210,  1495,  2518,  3127,  4209 ; 
7  airin  suaichinta  4441.    G.C. 

suaill  trifling,  petti/,  insignificant.  Nir- 
ba  suaill  3037,  3404.    C.C. 

súainem  thong.  L.  amentum.  Ar 
oensuainem  1527.    G.C. 

súainmech  thonged  924,  2085 ;  nober- 
taigis  P.  an  sleig  suainmig  4498; 
n.p.  suainmeacha  1472,  3087,  4110; 
a.p.  a  slega  suainmeacha  4473. 
suairc  pleasant,  gentle.  Sciath  suairc 
2694 ;  ni  suairc  soola  3580 ;  daine 
suarca  422;  clanda  suarca  2035, 
2183;  da  mergedaib  suarca  2801. 
suaite  kneaded.  Coma  suaiti  achaidi 
1555.   Anr. 


416 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


su-aitMnte    well-known,   conspicuous. 

Turggabail  na  greine  s.  1210.    Suai- 

theanta  TSh. 
su-aithnig  recognisable,  noticeable  959 ; 

tempoll  suaichnich  2258,  2278,  2335, 

3740;    suaithnich  3574;    suaichnid 

198,    3260,    3415;    soaichnid    2335; 

rochuir  a  eirrid  suaichnidh  de  3934. 

V.  aichnid.    C.C. 
suaitlniigta  distinguished  4823,  suai- 
chnid Eg. 
suan  m.  sleep  374,  2028,  3902 ;  a  suan 

1886,  2989;  'na  suanchodalta  3906 ; 

ina  suan  269;    asa  suan   643;    can 

suan  2718. 
suanamail  sleepy,  soporific.    Co  tigib 

suanamla  3900. 
s-úas  upwards,  up.  O  dariacbt  suas939. 
suba  f .  joy  678,  3869  ;  ní  bi  sid  na  suba 

4373 ;    adchualadar   an   suba    4768, 

int  suba  Eg.   Wi. 
subach   joyous,    cheerful,    ylad    704, 

1438,  1595,  1812,  2183,  2980,  4486; 

7  se  subach  4043;   co  subach  3973, 

4229. 
subachus  m.  joy  L.  laetitia  1397 ;  re 

nuall  subochais  1794.   Wi. 
súg  juice,  sap.    7  rochraith  sug  amro 

isi  3760.    G.s.  súga  C.C. 
sugad  m.  sucking  184,  868,  2072.    C.  C. 
suidigim  I  set,  place.    P.p.  3  s.  rosui- 

diged    2309,    2824;    3  p.    rosuidigit 

2223  ;  v.n.  ag  suidiugud  4102 ;  sui- 

digud  467;  E.  MS.  asa  suigd  I.  sui- 
diugud 4268. 
suidim   /  sit.      Pres.    3  p.    rasuidetar 

2269  ;  pret.  3  s.  rosuidestar  471 ;  3  p. 

roshuidsetar  472,  483. 
suiglm  I  suck,  drip.    Ipf.  3  s.  rosuiged 

200 ;  3  p.  con  suighdis  Eg.  1034. 
súil  f .  eye.   Ni  fhuil  do  shuil  re  crichaib 

na  C.  3495 ;  robean  a  shuili  1633 ; 

dofhoslaig  an  brathair  a  suili  1018 ; 

as  ar  suilib  2048. 
súl-glas  having  grey  eyes  730. 
sund    here.      Aireom    ina   tanic    sund 

2701 ;  facbaid-si  misi  m'  aenur  sund 

3379. 
suudrad,  sain-red  m.  speciality,  peculi- 
arity.  Do  sonrud  especially  152;  do 

sundrad  1212. 
svLthSLCh  fruitful ,  prosperous.    Mullach 

na  cathrach  suthaigi  1090.    Wi. 
su-thain  lasting  a  longtime,  everlasting. 

Sith  suthain  2755. 
sutrall  light,  lamp,  torch.   N.p.  sutrolla 

412 ;  re  fursunnud  na  sudrall  464. 

t  as  sign  of  aspiration.  Tainic  crich 
tsaogail  3718;  dar  mullach  tsleibi 
P.  3714. 


taball  ding.  N.p.  taibli  1400;  a  taiblib 
3088.    C.C. 

tachar  in.  fray,  fight,  encounter,  war. 
Bid  mesa  in  tachar-sa  1682 ;  co  rosti 
tachur  2577;  roindisedar  tachar  na 
T.  7  na  nG.  4758 ;  ré  tachar  960 ;  da 
thachar  ris  642;  ag  tachur  ris  1205; 
don  tachur  sin  2833 ;  g.s.  toirmease 
tachair979;  lin  tachair  2145;  tiugba 
in  tachair  sin  2879,  3856,  4371,  4187; 
dsit  thachur  632  ;  ni  fhuair  tachar 
4256.    Acall.,  O'Cl. 

tácharán  ghost,  waif  p.  xvi.  Tathchur 
sending  array  a  foster-child,  Laws. 

tacbrachm.  fighter.  Trentachrach345, 
600. 

tachxaim,  do-ad-cuir-im  I  happen,  be- 
fall. Ipf.  subj.  3  s.  tachrad  104; 
f  ut.  3  s.  tascerad  36. 

tachur,  tathchur  sending  away,  de- 
parture, sailing.  Kotrellaim  tachur 
a  luingi  2045. 

táeb  m.  side.  Is  tretholl  do  thaebh 
3599;  ré  siu  adcear  ta?b  do  bhrathar 
4397;  didin  a  tseib  bodeisin  4523; 
re  tab  in  mara  2054 ;  da  gach  thaib 
dib  2226;  do  each  taibh  3619,  3773; 
do  taibh  in  muighi  3836;  ucht  7 
taeib  in  trenmiled  sin  3288;  taib 
tholla  4689;  ba  tollta  a  taib  4845; 
do  thseib  7  do  druim  a  eich  2357 ; 
conferdais  a  taebuib  na  trenfer  3485. 

táeb-álaind  having  beautiful  sides  or 
trails  470,  2731. 

táeb-derg  ha  ring  red  side.  Ona  hathin- 
dib  taebderga  3146. 

táeb-dorcha  dark-sided.  Is  tiugha 
taebdorchai  tonna  3602. 

táeb-gel  white-sided.  Corp  tsebgel 
3561. 

táeb-glan  bright-sided,  pure-sided. 
Tonda  tibreacha  tsebglana  3532. 

táeb-gorm  blue-sided  974. 

táeb-lasamain  having  sides  blazing. 
Tseblasamuin  2221 ;  taeb-lasamna 
2256.    C.C. 

táeb-nocht  naked-sided.  Maithreacha 
tsebnochta  4456. 

táeb-solus  bright-jlanked.  Ech  t.  3549. 

táeb-tholl  having  a  perforated  side. 
Cur-ua  taobhtholl  tregdai  3824. 

taéb-úaine  green-sided.  Na  tonda 
tsebuaine  na  mara  3405. 

taéb-uar  having  cold  side.  A  tulchaib 
taebuara  2656. 

tseichli,  v.  teigle. 

táescad  m.  baling,  pumping  1980. 
TaosgadhO'Br.,taescairefr(fZerMcB., 
cf.  taesc  stream  C.C. 

tái,  tó  silent.  Co  tai  911,  2041,  2938, 
3809,  3991,  4456,  4859.    Aur. 


417 


27 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


taibled  projecting  nailery.  A. p.  ralin- 
sacl  na  T.  taibleda  4108;  a  taible- 
daib4234;  taidbli  deaftha  4243.  C.C. 

taibsenach  apparent,  portentous.  Co  t. 
3081.    Taidbsiu  Tbc. 

taidbse  appearance,  phantasm,  portent, 

.  vision.  N.s.  taidbsi  1879;  adces 
taidbsi4142;  taibsi4334;  a. s.  taidbsi 
1913;  taidhbhseda  3693;  tre  thaidb- 
sib  1611.    TSh.,  C.C. 

taidhecht,  tidecht  f.  coming,  arrival 
29.  Ee  taidecht  don  turus  sin  4441 ; 
ac  taidecht  4542. 

táidlech  sheen,  shimmer,  splendour, 
glare  978,  3260.  Tanig  taidklech 
4415;  taidleacb  nan-arm  4448;  taid- 
lech  in  athindi  4687.    C.C. 

taidlech  bright,  shining.  Teni  taidlech 
2221;  tucad  crocend  taidlech  2496; 
seolais  an  sleig  taidlig4496;  snaith- 
eda  s.  tened  taidligi  281;  roleic  a 
trilis  taidhlig  tromcais  3742;  cath- 
bairr  thaidlecha  3073. 

táidlenach  brightness,  sheen.  Hi  taid- 
lanig  na  greni  1742.    C.C. 

táidlignd  m.  gleaming,  flashing  2065. 

taidlim  I  visit,  touch.  Ipf.  3  s.  na- 
thaidledh  na  moigi  901;  ipf.  subj. 
3  s.  ba  samulta  na  taidled  in  talmain 
2463. 

taile  strong,  stout  2557.    C.C. 

táim  I  am.  Pres.  1  s.  atú  1827,  4061; 
ge-tu-sal326, 1356;  2s. mar tai 4029, 
4539;  ara-tai  4333;  atai-si  1307;  os 
atai  a  cind  4720 ;  atai  4167 ;  in-atai 
374;  cadai-siu  424;  3  s.  ata  1738, 
1778,  1825,  1867,  2666;  ita  628, 
3380 ;  1  p.  atamait  1770 ;  ge-tamait- 
ne  677,  1360;  2  p.  ara-tathai  416; 
3  p.  ataid  1121,  2,  4075,  4165, 
4671;  atat  1674,  2658;  itat  2970; 
atait  2668;  atad  4856;  pass.  pres. 
3  s.  atathar  4703;  p.p.  3  s.  robas 
1363 ;  o  rabas  aca  iarraid  1503 ; 
consuetudinal  present:  1  s.  nocha 
biu  1308;  ni  biu  1780;  ni  biu-sa  beo 
3390;  3  s.  robid  719,  1430,  1787, 
2473,  4765;  rabid  1841 ;  rouid  1922; 
aca  mbid  757,  769 ;  i  mbid  937, 1598 ; 
co  nbi  1037;  mar  bis  1602,  1641, 
2099 ;  airet  bis  507 ;  3  p.  bid  837 ;  na 
fir  bit  2668;  ipv.  2  s.  bi  4368;  bi- 
siu  1329;  3  s.  bid  4609,  634,  1777, 
1857,  4609;  na  bid  2627,  2956;  2  p. 
bid-si  an  bar  tocht  1133;  ipf.  ind. 
3  p.  co  mbitis  773;  commitis  3514; 
robitis  1936;  bidis  2068;  pres.  subj. 
2  s.  gein  bei-si  4374;  3  s.  cor-be 
163;  cid  be  cia  thu  4720;  lp.  cein 
bem  2141;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  nobeith 
3477;    dobeth   2682;    rabeth   1959; 


robeth  733;  da  mbeith  817,  823; 
3  p.  robeidis  848;  nabeidis  989;  co 
mbeidis  4072;  fut.  Is.  Wait  1357; 
bidam  2711;  2  s.  bia  1030;  3  s.  ni  bi 
4373;  biaid  4707,  854;  bidit  mo 
honoir  2593;  rel.  beias  439;  3  p 
antan  beidid  1078 ;  pret.  3  s.  bá 
925,  931,  1451;  pf.  3  s.  dobai  929 
4769;  dabai  957;  rabai  920,  899;  ni 
roibe  335 ;  cona  roibi  177 ;  inis  da 
raibi  1838;  don  tulaig  a  roibi  916 
cait  i  rroibi  1503 ;  cidh  ima  roiue 
wliat  ailed  her  3551;  co  roibi  4536: 
darobi  1500;  1  p.  robamar-ni  1973 
2047;  da  rauamar-ni  1849;  3  p.  do 
batar  885 ;  rabatar  912 ;  badar  1289 : 
robdar  1989;  v.n.  is  lor  dit  bith 
2140;  beith  680,  3409;  do  beith  946 
do  beith-siu  béo  1026;  do  beth  2050, 
2148;  can  a  beth  3695;  gan  beth 
3182. 

taimnigim  I  solve,  rede.  Pret.  1  s.  o 
rothaimniges  169.    Taimniuch  P.H. 

tainsem,  tuinsem  bruising,  crushing, 
accusing,  censuring.  Ag  tainsium 
2843,  3629,  4239,  4599.    Wi.,  Fel.2 

tair-,  v.  toir-. 

tairbert  f.  giving,  gift  2408. 

tairbertach  liberal,  generous.  Trent. 
strongly  delivering  1551.    C.C. 

taircim  (to-air-icc-)  I  come,  am  finished, 
am  completed.  Ipv.  2  s.  tair  lhnsa 
anund  2757,  3496 ;  tar-sa  3603 ;  tarr 
dom  indsaigi  4260;  na  tairr  4590, 
tarr  Eg. ;  2  fut.  3  s.  no  co  tairsed 
forra  4135 ;  pf.  3  s.  ni  thairnig  4840 ; 
no  co  tairnig  lé  4141 ;  o  thairnic 
leosum  in  teini  sin  2223,  4630;  o 
thairnic  in  cluichi  sin  2496,  3018. 

taircsenach,  to-air-iccim,  taircsiu  (1) 
offering,  attempting,  eager,  daring. 
Tairgsenach  997;  n.p.  trenfhir 
thaircseanacha  1494,  2805.  (2) 
finished,  exhausted.  Comtis  tairc- 
senaich  techig  3130. 

tairge  working,  causing.  Ic  tairgi  1612, 
Eg.  tairngire;  v.n.  of  to-air-icc-. 

tairise  (1)  trustworthy,  loyal.  In  trenfer 
tairpthech  tairisi  3253;  techtairi 
tairisi  2631,  892;  na  T.  tarrisi  1408, 
1999;  ar  na  cineadaib  tairsi  1080; 
na  ba  tairisi  leo  din  na  daingen  2740 ; 
ara  tairisi  T.  3491.  (2)  trust,  con- 
fidence.   Is  iniud  ata  mo  tairisi  3673. 

tairisim  I  take  a  stand,  abide,  stay. 
Ipf.  subj.  1  s.  dotairisinn  ar  C.  4383; 
pret.  3  s.  rothoris  1818;  v.n.  can 
toirisim  4875. 

tairissiur,  to-air-sissiur  I  abide,  re- 
main, chance  to  be.  Pret.  3  s.  tarra- 
stair330;  tairistair  1151. 


4l8 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


tairlingim  I  spring  down.    Pret.  3  s. 

ratoirling  1067;  dotairling  3552;  v.n. 

tairlem,   torlem  1798;    gan  toirlern 

3510. 
tairngire  a  promising,  presaging.    Oc 

tairriigairi  bais  3055. 
tairptech,  tairpthech,  tairpech  bold, 

undaunted.    In  tren  tairpthech  3253, 

3601 ;  amal  tigir  tairptig  1578.    The. 
tairpthige  f.   boldness,    keenness  310, 

3726. 
tairringim,  tarraingim,  do-sreng-im 

I  draw,  pull,  wrench.   Pres.2p.de- 

naid    fffillas    risin    corp    fcairrngtai 

4026 ;    pret.    3  s.  rothairring   1722 ; 

dotbarraing  3100 ;  rotbarraing  3438 ; 

dotarraing  941 ;  ratbairring  973 ;  co 

rothairring  2394 ;  3  p.  rotbairrngedar 

4022 ;  p.p.  3  p.  co  rathairrngid  4420 ; 

v.n.  arna  tarraing  1564 ;  ac  tarraing 

Tbid  3439,  3639;   trentairring  261; 

do  tharraing  942. 
tairsech  threshold.    Ar  tairrseach  an 

dorais  4082,  866;   ar  tairsig  na  T. 

4086. 
tais-benaim  I  show.    Pret.  3  s.  rothais- 

ben  1864 ;  p.p.  rotaisbenad  leo  dosum 

he  3372. 
taiscélad     m.    spying,    divining.     Ie 

taescelad  1806;  a.s.  taisceladb  1196; 

a.p.  taiscelta  faistine  1193.   P.H. 
taiscélaid  m.  explorer.    A.p.  rochuir 

taiscelta  1757;  exploratores  Theb.  iv. 

741.    Wi. 
taiscélaim  I  spy.   Ipf .  3  s.  dotbaiscelad 

3997. 
táisci  sooner  than,  before.   Kobo  taisci 

2404,   taesca   Eg.;    is   taisci   2111, 

tasca  Eg.,  1071 ;  cuma  taisci  fis  mo 

bais  3710;  ni  bad  tbaisci  4431;  ni 

ua   tasca  Eg.;    compar.  of  tóesech 

first.   Cf.  The. 
taise  f.  weakness,  relics,  fits.    Tarn  7 

taisi  2414;   ina  tbaisi  2363;  ni  tuc 

taisi  na  tess  3814;  rotbuitsed  taissi 

7  taimnella  4635.   Mn. 
táisech,   tóisech  m.  leader.    Taisech 

922,  2293,  3095;  i  laim  M.  taisig  da 

muntir2009;  da  tbaisecb  2417 ;  n.p. 

na  taisich  3272,  1561,  1581;   taisig 

4615;    a   tbaisicb   3046;    a    toisigh 

3765 ;    taisigb    3861 ;    anmand    na 

toiseach  1160;    gan  taisecbu  3049, 

3220. 
taisim  I  soften,   diminish.     Pret.  3  s. 

gen  gor-tiiais  da  eneocb  2893.  Nior- 

tbais  a  tbreóir  The.  89. 
táithenach  silent,  tongue-tied.    Co  t. 
911,   toitbenacb  Eg.;    ri   tsetenach 
1379,  1936;   na  Tiabanda  tsetencba 
1232,  co  taetaenca  Eg.    C.C.,  taoi- 


tennach  O'R.,  taoithengacb  tongue- 
tied  Din. 

taithmigim  I  loose,  loosen.  Ipf.  subj. 
3  p.  co  taidmigtis  276;  pret.  3  s.  is 
andain  rotbaimig  2436. 

taitnem  sheen  916,  2865;  a  taitbnemb 
na  trillsi  sin  3743;  re  t.  na  n-arra 
4819. 

taitnemach  shining,  bright  1036,  1548, 
2731,  3457,  4387. 

talam  m.  earth.  Dochum  tbalman 
2490;  rooslaic  in  talam  2942,  3014; 
ua  tend  tesbacb  in  talam  1742;  co 
racbritbnaig  an  talam  4815 ;  airig 
an  talman  1162;  cetbra  caithmecba 
intalman269,  280 Eg., 351,  522,530, 
2940,  4222;  teinti  an  talman  853, 
2083;  tar  dreitb  tbalman  914;  a 
talmain  1075;  tresin  talmain  1253; 
ri  tenntaibb  taluan  3698. 

talam  -  chumscugud  earth-shaking, 
earthquake.  Talamcbumscugud 

2932. 

tal-chair  loving  ohc'-s  own  will,  self- 
willed,  stubborn,  obstinate.  Talcbar 
1406,  1999,  3253;  ba  talcbair  959; 
cruaidsciatb  in  fbir  tbalcair  969; 
talcbara  892,  1368,  2660;  co  talcair 
973;  compar.  talcbairi  2565.    C.C. 

talcnarda  resolute.  Os  na  sluagaib 
tendtalcbairda  4842,  talcbara  Eg. 

tall  over  there,  of  old.  Amal  rotbuitset 
tall  4035;  isin  catbraig  tball  2148, 
3228;  rouadar  tball  isin  baili  2151, 
4092  ;  rabadar  drem  tball  do  Gregaib 
4091;  iter  tball  7  amuich  2198;  co- 
nic! tball  fuaridar  bas  2783. 

tallaim  céill  I  lose  hope.  Pret.  3  s. 
uair  tall  ceill  do  rignacht  na  catb- 
rach  4680.    C.C. 

talmaigeacht  f.  earthiness  1293. 

talmanda  earthly  4167. 

tarn  collapse,  stupor,  plague,  rest,  re- 
pose. Tarn  7  taisi  2414 ;  ina  tbám  7 
ina  tbaisi  2363 ;  tainig  tarn  ara  ten- 
gaid  4701. 

támach  nightmare  231.  Trom  tamach 
nightmare  Din. 

támach  plagued,  troubled.  Mna  buai- 
dirtbi  badbchaintecba  tamacba  4777. 

tamán  m.  (1)  trunk,  stem.  Cor-ba 
taman  inael  3962;  n.p.  7  tamain 
troma  1474;  comtis  tamain  3504; 
tamuin  chruaidi  2670.  (2)  chief, 
leader.    Tamoin  3765.   Wi.,  O'Cl. 

tamnaigim  I  obtruncate,  lop.  P.p.p. 
tamnaigtbe  1405.    C.C. 

tám-néll  stupor-cloud,  swoon,  fit.  Ro- 
tbuitsed taissi  7  taimnella  4636. 
Acall.,  Mn. 

tan  time.   An  tan  sin  914,  962,  1091; 


419 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


isin  tan  sin  4266 ;  antan  when 
1078. 

tana  thin,  slender.  Na  muir  tbana 
Tiabanda-sa  4241. 

tana  thinness.   Tré  thana  917.   Acall. 

tanaide  thin,  slender.  Co  traigthib 
tanaidib  732. 

tanaiglm  I  thin.  Pret.  3  s.  rothanaig 
3156. 

tanaim  I  thin.  Pres.  3  s.  rathanaid 
4205. 

tar  éis  over  the  track  of,  after,  in  con- 
sequence of,  in  spite  of.  Tar  eis  mo 
charad  4340;  dar  eis  Ípornone  3468, 
3470;  dar  th'  eis  3581;  tar  m'  eis 
4345 ;  tar  eis  a  fer  3892 ;  t.  eis  mo 
thigerna  3984;  tara  heis  I.  tar  eis 
877.    V.  dar. 

tarb  m.  bull  1280,  1403,  1485;  do 
tharbaib  2272. 

tarba  f .  profit.  Ni  fuil  tarba  1506 ;  nir- 
ba  tarba  3283;  an  ba  t.  do  T.  4227. 

tarbach^/q/ííaiiZe  676. 

tarbda  (1)  made  of  bull-hide.  7  a  la- 
manda  tarbda  2504.  (2)  bidl-like. 
Fer  isel  tailc  tarbda  2557. 

tarcaise  f.  censuring,  contempt,  scorn. 
Ag  tarcaisi  moir  forro  4239;  tuc 
tainsem  7  tarcaisi  mor  arna  G.  2843. 

tarcaisne  contempt,  scorn.  Ac  tarcasni 
2895,  4599.    Tbc,  C.C. 

tarcaisnech  contemptuous  1482,  2558. 

tar-icim  I  come,  finish,  am  ended.  Pf. 
3  s.  no  co  tairniglé  4141.    V.  taircim. 

tar-laicim  I  let  fly,  hurl.  Pret.  3  s. 
tarlaig947,  1009;  tarlaic  2839,  2888, 
3102;  datharlaie  urchar  3101. 

tarraid,  do-ar-reth  overtook.  Tarraid 
cloich  2887;  in  ni  tarraid  831;  o 
tharraid  bsegal  gona  3099 ;  nach 
tarras  3525;  pres.  subj.  1  s.  no  co 
tarar-sa  2764.    P.H. 

tarr-nocht  quite  bare,  stark  naked 
4387.  According  to  Stokes,  tarr 
belly,  Cym.  torr. 

tart  m.  thirst.   Ki  tart  1782. 

tartmor  thirsty.  Na  hinada  tirmora 
tartmora  3617. 

tebim  /  cut  off.  P.p.  3  p.  as  ar-tebit  3081. 

tech  m.  house.  Ge-r  fata  amach  on 
baili  in  tech  i  rroibi  1900 ;  doirrsi 
ar  tigead  2028;  ac  inrud  in  tigi 
2149;  i  tig  1931;  da  thig  2168;  a 
tig  4192;  bai  as  dig  4683;  ana  tech 
leptha  4200;  co  teach  1346;  co tech 
1413,  1900,  2167,  4681;  n.p.  tigi 
736 ;  tuir  7  tigi  4207 ;  tulcha  na  tigi 
4265  ;  a. p.  rolinsad  tigi  7  teampaill 
4130;  a  mullaigib  tor  7  tiged  4105; 
do  diten  na  tigead  4108,  4405 ; 
a  tigib  4234,  4290;  i  toegib  l',i50  a 


tighibh  Eg.;  co  tigib  lethna  2113; 

co  tighibh  3864;  co  tigib  suanamla 

3900;    dochuadar   da   trebaib    7    da 

tigib  4918. 
techtaire  m.  messenger  581,  829,  889, 

2631,  4360;  ainm  an  techtaire  829. 
techtairecht    f.    message,    ambassage, 

mission  1073,  1086,  1102,  1117. 
tecmaim,  do-(in-com-iccim)  I  chance, 

happen,  meet.  Ipf.  3  s.  tecmad  do  103, 

158,  2559;  2  fut.  3  s.  tecemad  125; 

v.n.  do  thegmail  dó  988;  tecmaill  101. 
tedmandach  pestilential  900. 
tegdais  f.  duelling,  house,  habitation 

2154. 
teichech  fugitive,  fleeing.    N.p.  techig 

3130 ;  co  t.  2976 ;  ua  thretaib  teich- 

echa  3207. 
teichim   I  flee.    Ipv.  2  p.  na   teiched 

3257;  pret.  3  s.  rotheith-sium  1022; 

roteich    3334 ;    3  p.    dotheithseadar 

955;   rotheichset  3505;  v.n.  do  tei- 

theadh  965,  987,  4528;    in   tethad 

2446 ;  gan  teiched  3158 ;  ar  teiched 

1603,  2414,   2516,   2955,   4116;    ar 

teithed  4308,    4426,   4293;    re    tin- 

denus  in  techid  3513,  4;  acht  mad 

techead  3255. 
teichmech  fleeing,  fugitive.     Ni  don 

cinedh  techmech  3783;  ua  tretaibh 

teithmeacha  3764. 
teidm  pestilence.    Do  met  tedma  539  ; 

a. p.  tedmanda  544. 
teigle  stilhiess,  calm.    Ana  teigli  2164, 

tecli  Eg. ;  robai  in  muir  in[a]  tseichli 

1944,  ina  teighli  Eg. 
teiglide  languid,  sick,  mild,  sober.    Co 

tai  tegligi2041.    O'R.,  C.C. 
teilcim,   teilglm   I   throw.     Ipf.    3  s. 

dotheilcedh   3771 ;    conteilged-sium 

989;  roteilgead  4210;   1  p.  co  telc- 

mais  1974;  3p.  rothelgtis  3284;  do- 

telcdis  3633;  pret.  3  s.  rus-telg  2584; 

rothelc   3673;    doteilg    4892;    3  p. 

rothelcset  3281,  noteilcdis  Eg.;  ra- 

theilgsed  4110,  4113 ;  p.  ipf.  subj .  3  s. 

doteilcthea  3771;    rotelcthea  1981; 

ge    ratelcthea    3445 ;    p.p.    rotelgid 

3089;  v.n.  teilced:  n.p.  a  roteilcthi 

952. 
teintide. fi cry.    Saignen  teindtigi  1239; 

amal  saignen  tincurach  teintigi  188  ; 

ac   dibragad   soigead    teintigi  4105 ; 

ac   sugud  int   shrotha   tibreehtaich 

teindtigi    185 ;     saignena    teintighi 

4269  ;  saignen  telctech  tendtide  782 ; 

co  tri  tengaib  tendtidi  2065. 
teist    f.    fame,    character,    reputation 

1678.    C.C,  TSh. 
telach   f.   hill.     A  telchaib  tondglasa 

4084. 


42O 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


telad  baling.     Ac  telad  1980,   telach 

Eg.,  O'R.;  do-ess-la  Ped.  n.  571. 
telctech  broadcast,  shooting.    A  richt 

saignen  telctech  782. 

tempul  m.  temple.  Dorignead  leo  tem- 
poll  suaichnich  2258 ;  iin  slesaib  in 
tempaill  sin  2261;  i  terapull  742; 
isin  tempoll  745;  i  timchull  na 
tempall  2068;  a  teamplaib  4603, 
4290 ;  a  templaib  uaisli  3893. 

tenaim  /  writhe,  twist.  In  tenad  rue 
o  ckach  2446,  tennadh  Eg.  O'R. 
V.  tendaim. 

tend  strong,  firm,  hard.  Ua  tend  tes- 
bach  in  talam  1742;  in  trenfher  tend 
1406;  ba  tend  400;  in  fer  tend  1482  ; 
.i.  carrac  thend  3404;  risin  buidin 
teind  946;  treinfhir  thenda  4481; 
buidne  tenda  1523 ;  trentaisich  tenda 
3268;  do  rigaib  tenda  672;  ger-ba 
tenda  na  trenfir  1967;  compar.  ua 
tendi  tomhaitheam  Tid  1439,  2012; 
ua  tendi  2565 ;  is  ed  fa  tend  ag  Tid 
1038. 

tend  pressure,  breadth,  flat.  Co  tor- 
chair  7  tend  a  droma  re  lar  3143; 
roleig  tend  a  droma  re  tenntaib  tal- 
man  4533 ;  cornmitis  i  tend  re  grian 
7  re  gainem  3514. 

tendaim  1  press,  close  in.  Rel  tendas 
2709;  pret.  3  p.  rothennsad  3244; 
v.n.  m.  in  tennad  2446;  gan  tendad 
1732,  1356;  do  thendad  4314;  aga 
tennadh  4372. 

tende  strength.   Tenni  3245. 

tend-gluair  keen  and  clear.  Risna 
stoccaib  tendgluaire  1331. 

tendius  m.  tension,  strain.  T.  mor 
237. 

tend-tachair  hard-hitting  944. 

tene,  teine  f.  fire.  Rodelaig  an  teine 
4739 ;  rocomecrad  teni  taidlech  2221 ; 
in  teini  sin  2223;  dorindead  leis 
asntine  dib  4628,  cf.  The. ;  saegnen 
tened  2092,  2327;  tor  teinead  romoire 
4736;  casracha  teinead  1297;  fha- 
daigis  di  tiruairsin  teinid  bigi  4682 ; 
isin  teinid  2241,  4629;  isin  tenid 
sin  2247;  do  teinid  4358;  agan 
teinid  4745 ;  doronni  tenid  n-idbarta 
1931;  fuaradar  teinid  a  crand  4734; 
a.p.  tinnti  3876;  fhado  teinti  4140; 
teinti  4630;  tendti  458;  tenti  2256; 
i  timchull  na  tendted  sin  2252 ;  dona 
teintib  4143 ;  tenta  mar  so  d'fhacbail 
4272.    Cf.  C.C. 

tenga  f.  tongue.  Ban*  a  tehgad  1863, 
4;  tarn  ara  tengaid  4702;  co  tri 
tengaib  2065. 

tennad,  tenta  fastening.  A  tenta  ba 
lia  3735. 


tenn-tomaithniech  strong  and  menac- 
ing.   Co  t.  3748. 

tenta  a  pressure,  difficulty.  Hi  tenta 
gaclia  feaehail  1405 ;  tindeanais  1369 ; 
ri  tenta  toenail  1524,  3077 ;  re  tendta 
in  tindeanais  3483;  a  tendtaib  tal- 
man  942,  1564,  2070,  2082;  re  ten- 
taib  talman  1000,  3698;  teinti  an 
talman  853. 

tentide,  v.  teintide. 

terc  scarce,  scanty  075. 

terce  f.  fewness,  scarcity.  A  deirci 
1002.    Wi. 

terchanaim  I  prophesy.  Pret.  3  p. 
rothirchansatar  84. 

tercugud  m.  lessening  3818. 

terfochricc  f.  price,  reward.  A.s.  in 
tirfochraicc  16.    Wi. 

ternaim,  to-ess-ro-sni  1  escape,  recover 
from.  Pret.  3  s.  is  e  terna  1022 ; 
2  fut.  3  s.  co  tornobad  3306 ;  v.n.  do 
ternum  2856. 

tesbach  heat.  Ua  tend  tesbach  in  tal- 
man 1742 ;  teasuach  7  tindenus  469 ; 
re  tesbach  1782.    Heat,  Laws,  TSh. 

tesbuith  want,  lack.  D.s.  ar  tesbaid 
1722,  testail  Eg. 

tescaim  I  cut,  lop.  Subj.  ipf.  3  p. 
rotheasctais  743 ;  pret.  3  s.  tescais 
3418;  rotesc  3698;  rothesc  2240, 
3503,  3829;  dothesc  1154;  p.p. 
rothescad  1318;  v.n.  ag  tescad  3951, 
1323;  cruadtescad  3325. 

tesmolta  details.  Ag  indisin  seel  7 
tesmolta  4726,  testmolta  Eg.  Tes- 
malta  Wi. 

tess  m.  heat  3814.   Wi. 

test  f.  fame,  reputation.  O  darat  M. 
test  1678,  teist  Eg.  (q.v.). 

tethad  flight,  running  away,  speed 
2446.    Teathaim  O'R.    V.  teichim. 

thúas  above.  Amal  rogell  thuas 
3833. 

ti  intention,  design.  Ar  ti  na  T.  lying 
in  wait  for  the  T.  3908.    C.C. 

tí,  té  any  one,  an  individual,  one, 
person.   In  te  160.    V.  i  (1). 

tiachtu  f.  going.  Gan  tiachtain  de 
without  being  able  3370;  v.n.  of 
ticcim.    Tbc. 

tiagaimlsro.  Pres.  2s.  teigi  4173,4332; 
tegil042;  2p.  teigthi  4654,  7;  tegthi 
421;  teigthi  1316;   subj.  3  p.  no  co 

£  roiset  1831,  roithet  Eg.;  ipv.  2  p.  tait 
437 ;  ipf.  3  s.  ni  teiged  2527 ;  each  co- 
nair  ina  teged  2858;  3p.teigdiss4818; 
tigdis  4819;  o  teigtis  a  eich-sium 
dib  2306;  fut.  rach-  q.v.\  pf.  Is. 
dochuadus-sa  2107,  4789;  rochua- 
dhus  1050;  2  s.  dochuadais  3383; 
dochuaidis  3598;  3  s.  dochuaid-sium 


421 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


1501,  1570,  1833,  3327,  4040,  4616, 
4754,  4909;  dachuaid  3465,  2059; 
ge  dachuaid-sium  1499;  co  ndechaid 
4184,  2048;  dodeaehaid  348;  ni 
dechaid  1542;  1  p.  dochuamar-ni 
1951;  3  p.  doehuadar  1378,  3024, 
3986,  4193,  4623,  4918;  dachuadar 
1874 ;  dochuatar  4056 ;  risi  ndechadar 
4757;  pf.  subj.  pres.  2  s.  ge  dechair- 
si  een  co  dechair  3985 ;  3  s.  cen  co 
dech  3920;  past  3  s.  co  ndechsad 
3803;  p.p.  3  s.  docuas  2334,  4749; 
v.n.f.  ua  fata  re  P.  techt  in  turas  sin 
1418;  ac  teacht  1075,  1111. 

tibim  I  laugh.  Pret.  3  s.  tibis  4262, 
4889;  rotib  2623. 

tibrech  welling.   Tonda  tibreacha  3532. 

tibrechtach/i/ZZ  of  wells,  welling  185. 

ticead,  tigead  =  tiget  f.  thickness  998. 

ticim  I  come.  Tic  dim  lam  able.  Ipv. 
2  p.  ticid  1781;  tigid  4856;  ipf.  3  s. 
tigead  903,  4601;  asa  ticed  1996, 
2306;  ipf.  subj.  3  s.  gid  ed  tised 
4839;  tisad  2508;  rnina  tisadh  3886; 
co  tisadh  dhibh  811,  2812;  amal 
nothisadh  4232 ;  f ut.  3  s.  do  gach 
aen  tia  leam  1332 ;  2  fut.  3  s.  ticfad 
1466;  daroised  218;  pf.  Is.  tanac- 
sa  424,  1899,  2952,  3848;  2s.  tan- 
cais  3795;  3  s.  tanic  1369;  tainig 
918,  3945,  4007;  dos-fanig  4051; 
douanic  515;  can  as  tainic  ditsa 
3625;  1  p.  tangamar  2970,  4782; 
2  p.  ini  ras-tangabair  4729 ;  3  p.  tan- 
cadar  1443 ;  tancotar  3839 ;  tangadar 
723,  895,  913,  1875,  4829;  no  co 
tangadar  a  munnter  4199 ;  p.p.  3  s.  o 
nach  tangas  661,  tancus  Eg.,  1392; 
v.n.f.  ac  tiachtain  3309;  tiachtain 
de  power  to  3370. 

tidnaicim,  to-ind-angim  I  grant,  be- 
stoiv.   P.p.  3  s.  rotidnaiced  2465. 

tig,  v.  tiug. 

tiger  f.m.  tiger.  Crocend  taidlech 
tigri  2496;  a.s.  amal  thiger  nemnig 
naimdidi  642;  amal  tigir  tairptig 
1578;  confadaig3148;  mar  da  thiger 
4515 ;  n.p.  rolingestar  na  tigri  diana 
2774,  5;  tangadar  amach  ni  tigri 
2770;  a. p.  adchondairc  A.  na  tigri 
2778. 

tigerna  m.  lord.  Is  tigerna  2323 ;  mo 
thigerna  fein  do  beith  3981;  g.s. 
corp  a  thigerna  3990;  ind  do  thi- 
gerna 3979 ;  ac  fegad  a  tigerna  2346 ; 
tar  eis  mo  thigerna  3984 ;  'ma  thi- 
gerna 2641 ;  ag  iarraid  a  tigerna 
4024;  g.p.  chorp  a  tigernad  3987; 
tar  eis  a  tigernadh  3978;  do  chos- 
num  a  tigerna  4483;  arren  ré  a 
tigerna  4422;  da  tigernaib  1799. 


tigrige  belonging  to  a  tiger.  Eochuira 
craicend  tren  tigrigi  4015. 

tilcoma  goblet  943.   Wi. 

timairglm,  to-imb-orgim  I  drive  to- 
gether, collect,  control,  compel,  press 
in.  Pret.  3  s.  ratimairg  976;  co 
rothimairg  2566 ;  p.p.  3  p.  co  ti- 
mairgid  3136.    C.C. 

timcbell  m.  surrounding:  as  prep,  pre- 
ceded by  i  n-.  I  timchell  na  sluag 
2934;  ad  timcheall  849;  'na  thim- 
chell  2497;  'na  timchell  3279;  'na 
timcheall  4107,  4850;  ina  timchell 
1979;  'na  thimcheall  2268,  4773;  i 
timchull  2068,  2252;  a  timcheall 
4508;   'ma  thimcheall  4763. 

timchellaim  I  surround.  Pres.  rel. 
thimchellas  26;  amal  timchillis 
2525;  amal  timchellas  3092;  ipf. 
3  s.  nothimchilleadh  901 ;  pret.  3  s. 
dotimchill  976;  cor-timchill  4122; 
rus-timchill  2524;  rothimchill  3092, 
3128,  4204;  v.n.  'ca  timchellad 
3511;  aga  dimchillad  4212. 

time,  timme  fear.  Teiched  7  timi  ticed 
dona  sluagaib  2414 ;  ar  timi  2516 ; 
ar  time  4426 ;  ni  har  time  4116. 

timna  f.  testimony.  Is  i  timna  3843; 
a  haithle  na  timnai  sin  3853. 

timsaigim  I  gather,  collect,  press  in. 
Pret.  3  s.  rotimsaig  2565,  3614 ;  3  p. 
rathimsaigsead  4289;  p.p.  3  p.  ro- 
timsaigid  4898;  timsaigid  1441 ;  v.n. 
aca  timsugud  3749;  'ga  timsugud 
3511. 

tim-techech  timorous,  fugitive,  fleeing 
hither  and  thither  1882;  co  tim- 
teicheach  4376. 

tim-teitbeadach  fugitive,  cowardly 
1330,  4869. 

timtocbell  m.  change,  turn,  revolution 
4580.  Cf.  im-thocell  circumambula- 
Hon,  C.C. 

tincaim,  to-in-ad-ci-m  I  look  at,  view. 
Pres.  3  p.  tincaid  na  Tiabanda  4859 ; 
pret.  3  s.  tincais  Creon  croda  sin 
4882.    C.C. 

tincbor  attendance,  influence,  help, 
fostering  care.  Ke  tinchur  toch- 
mairc  659;  re  tinchur  na  greni 
1426;  re  tinchur  tachuir  1465;  ri 
tincur  3742  ;  ré  tinchur  a  diubraicthi 
1084.  Tioncar  .i.  friothaileamh 
O'CL,  Tbc. 

tinchuracb  attendant,  missive,  darting 
188. 

tindas  m.  sickness.  Truaignemela 
toirrsi  7  tindusa  1136.  Tinneas  m. 
TSh. 

tindenasach  hasty  3255  Eg.,  tindnes- 
nach  E. 


422 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


tindenus  m.  act  of  hastening,  urging 
469.  Ata  tindenus  1825,  4445;  ua 
tindeanus  leis  1420;  robui  tindinis 
2330;  denaid  teindeanus  1142;  tein- 
dinus  987 ;  ri  tenta  tindeanais  1369 ; 
ri  tindenus  1799;  ag  tindinus  do 
comrag  7  do  comlann  rit  4350,  4421 ; 
do  thinninus  4315;  re  tindenus  in 
techid  3513. 

tindesnach  hasty,  rapid,  quick  881, 
973,  1579,  urging  4313  ;  ba  t.  it  was 
disconcerting  2634;  co  t.  1740,  4170, 
4339,  4360;  to  toirsech  teindesnach 
3606,  3991;  sitharchar  tindisnach 
2798;  co  tindisnach  3347;  techead 
tindnesnach  3255. 

tindesnaige  f.  haste.  Re  teindesnaigi 
4090. 

tindesnaigim  I  hasten,  press,  urge  on. 
Pres.  rel.  ni  misi  tendas  na  tindes- 
naiges  sib  2710;  ipv.  2  p.  teindeas- 
naigi  4813 ;  pret.  3  s.  rotindesnaigh 
3855;  rotbindisnaig  4538;  tindes- 
naigis  4843. 

tindrem  (to-ind-riadaim)  m.  beginning, 
source,  origin.  Is  e  sin  tindrem 
genenina  4808.  Wi.,  tinnrim  C.C., 
O'Cl. 

tindsadain  dropping,  shedding.  Tinn- 
sadain  4522.    The.  3839,  Fed.  11.  624. 

tindscnaim  I  begin,  attempt,  arrange, 
give.  Rotinnsgnadar  Eg.  1410;  v.n. 
ac  tindsceadul  235,  1283;  re  tindsce- 
tal  1595;  re  tindscedul  3022.  V. 
tionsgnamh  7  tuarasgabháil,  Wi. 
p.  827. 

tindscraim  I  dower,  give  as  dowry. 
Pret.  3  s.  rotindscarnastar  1410. 
Tindscra  bride-price,  Acall.,  Wi., 
The. 

tindtech,  tenntech  sheath.  Cor-chuir 
a  claideb  'na  tindtech  3394  ;  rabean 
a  chlaidim  asa  thinntig  3945.  Cf. 
intech,  Str.  Stories. 

tinntaim,  to-ind-soim  1 1 u  rn.  Pret.  3  s. 
cor-inta  1573;  v.n.  tinntod,  hence 
denom.  tinntodaim ;  pret.  3  s.  rotinn- 
todh  1045.    Cf.  tinntog,  Laws. 

tinól  m.  gathering.  Ua  huruamun  les 
toir  7  tinol  300 ;  isin  tinol  sin  4800 ; 
lanméd  tinoil  1267 ;  do  thinol  892 ; 
isin  tinol  1548. 

tinólaim,  tinóilim  /  assemble,  gather. 
Pret.  3  s.  rothinoil  1053,  4796;  ro- 
tinoil  1717,  3614;  3  p.  rothinoilsead 
537 ;  rotinolsetar  1953 ;  p.  pres.  3  p. 
rotinólatar-sidhe  813;  p.p.  (pres.) 
rothinoilit  2636;  dotinoilead  4627. 

tipra  f.  well,  spring.  G.s.  os  cind  na 
tipraid  52 ;  dochum  na  tibra  48. 

tir  m.  land.   Aireg  an  tiri  1162;  alia 


in  tiri  1540;  ac  inrad  in  tire  7  in 
talman  351,  521;  turlaigi  in  tiri 
1748;  ar  lucht  in  tire  7  in  talman 
529 ;  mna  in  tire  741 ;  ar  tir  1075 ; 
'na  tir  na  'na  talmain  4760,  4784; 
co  tir  1943;  i  tir  3376,  4587;  facbum 
in  tir  n-aneoil  n-urbadach-sa  2969. 

tír-écor  arranging  of  land,  agriculture, 
tillage.   Gan  tirecor  1929. 

tirim,  tirm  dry.  1  crichaib  tirmma 
285;  na  hinada  tirma  3617. 

tirmaigim  /  dry  up.  P.p.  3  p.  ra- 
tirmaigit  1748. 

tirm-glan  dry  and  bright.  Dar  mul- 
lach  sleibi  tirmglaine  1177. 

tiruairsin  a  remnant,  remainder.  A.s. 
tiruairsin  4682.    C.C. 

tiug  (1)  thick,  dense.  7  croicenn  tiugh 
uimpi  3733;  is  tiugha  tonna  3602, 
1280.  (2)  thickness.  I  tiug  int 
shluaig  3298. 

tiugha  end.  T.  in  tachair  sin  2879, 
tiughbas  Eg.    Tbc. 

tlaith  weak-spirited, slack, mild.  Nir-bo 
tlaith  a  thres  3957.    Cym.  tlawd. 

tnuth  envy  141. 

tnúthach  envious ,  fierce  208,  376,  569, 
880,  995,  1617. 

tocbaim  I  lift,  raise:  t.  cend  appear 
3917;  ipf.  3  p.  co  tocuatis  1965;  fut. 
2  s.  in  tan  toicceua  3846;  pret.  3  s. 
co  rothocaib  272,<3319,  3594;  rotho- 
gaib942,  1932,  1406,  1023;  togbais 
4861 ;  3  p.  rotocatar  3835 ;  rothoc- 
badar  2518;  rothogbadar  3990;  ro- 
togbadar  4731,  rotocabastar  Eg.; 
nir-togad  4614;  v.n.  f.  tocbal:  tog- 
bail  1164;  ac  tocuail  1972;  a  tocbail 
2482;  do  thogbail  4062;  gan  tiach- 
tain  de  a  tocuala  3370. 

tochastal,  tochostol  m.  mustering, 
muster.  Tochastol  1377,  1587;  toi- 
cheastol  1497;  toichestal  4753;  ac 
tochostol  628;  tochestul  2639;  an 
seehtmadriantoicheastaill303.  C.C. 

tochastalaim  I  muster.  Pret.  3  s.  ro- 
thochastail  1593. 

tochim,  to-cheim,  tachim  a  course, 
advance,  inarch.  Ba  ler  disi  tochim 
2649;  ri  tachim  1800;  ré  taicim  na 
trenfer  sin  4451.  Tochim  Tbc, 
tochéim  C.C. 

tochlaim  I  dig  out,  excavate.  Ipf.  3  s. 
contachlad  873;  pret.  3  s.  rathachail 
941 ;  p.p.  co  tochlait  3136.    Tbc. 

tochmarc  m.  wooing.  Re  tinchur  toch- 
mairc  659;  ac  toga  a  thochmairc 
uaindi  2030;  do  thochmarc  na  n- 
ingen  663. 

tocht  going  615,  1290,  1449,  1578, 
1843. 


423 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


tochtaim  lam  silent.  Pret.  3s.dotocht 
918;  v.n.  tocht  as  subst.,  an  bar 
tocht  1133.  Acall.  34,  TSh.  Tocht 
and  socht  have  the  same  sound  with 
initial  aspiration.  Techt  is  influenced 
by  tó  silent.   Ped.  i.  435. 

to-dochaide  f.  future,  futurity.  Tuig- 
senach  na  todochaidi  1190;  da  tho- 
dochaide  2962.    O'Cl. 

todusc(a)im  /  awaken,  rouse.  Ipf.  3  p. 
co  tudusctis  1650;  fut.  3  s.  roho- 
diuscfed  591 ;  v.n.  da  thoduscad 
582;  tre  tuduscad  1635. 

to-ga,  to-gu  chousing,  making  choice 
of.    Do  thoga  892;  ac  toga  2030. 

togaide  chosen,  choice  672,  1280.  Tul- 
cha  t.  252;  trenfhir  th.  3398;  'man 
teachtairi  togaidi  889 ;  cona  tuathaib 
togaidi  4338;  da  mac  tenda  togaidi 
1999;  7  faicheda  na  Tebi  togaidi 
2733.    C.C. 

togaim  I  choose.  Pret.  3  s.  is  andsin 
rothog  T.  an  trichait  3922. 

togal  f.  sacking,  demolition.  A  haithli 
thogla  na  cathrach  2022 ;  loingsech 
na  togla  4066;  in  fer  na  tocla  1601, 
3446;  rig  na  togla  4311;  d.s.  da 
togail  1139,  4823,  1265  Eg.;  do 
thogail  na  T.  1449;  ag  togail  4062; 
a.s.  im  thogail  Tebi  1716. 

toglaim  1  sack,  destroy.  Ipf.  3  p.  amal 
dotoglaidis  4057 ;  pret.  3  p.  rotho- 
gladar  4096.    C.C. 

tó-gluaisim,  to-od-gluaisim  I  move 
away, abort,  hurl.  Ipf.3s.contogluai- 
seadh873;  contogluaised  989.    Wi. 

tóicthiu  (to-od-ic-)  f.  event,  fate,  for- 
tune. Is  truag  am  linde  an  toicthi 
4596 ;  rabai  an  toici  4475 ;  a  tuicthi 
4484 ;  tiachtain  ri  toicthi  3719 ;  ud- 
maille  na  tuicten  4301;  truag  an 
timtochell  toicten  4580.  Cym.  tyn- 
ged.    Toici  C.C;  Triads  131. 

toideacht  f.  coming  1082,  2957;  ar 
teiched  thoigeachta  2955.  V.  do- 
tiagaim. 

toigh  agreeable,  dear.  Compar.  as 
docha  lium  1070. 

toinim  I  come  down,  descend.  Pret.  3  s. 
rathain  1166. 

tóir  pursuit.    Toir  7  tinol  300. 

toirberim,  tairberim,  to-air-berim  I 
compel,  thrust,  cause  to  pass,  give  up, 
give.  Pret.  3  s.  toirbiris  each  dib 
laim  a  timcheall  araile  4508;  ro- 
thairbir  poicc  2624;  v.n.f.  do  thoir- 
bert  fein  4585. 

toirbert  f.  passage.  Ua  tindisnach 
toirbert  in  fhir  sin  881. 

toirmiscim  I  hinder,  check,  stop :  con- 
strued with  im.  Ipv.  2  s.  na  toirmisc- 


siu  umma  a  denam  4344;  toirmisc 
4361;  2  p.  toirmiscid  4466;  3  s. 
mina  thoirmisced  4800;  ipf.  subj. 
3  p.  mani  thairmiscdis  3264;  pret. 
3  s.  nir-thairmisc  3270,  3392;  do- 
thoirmisc  4411,  4835;  rothairmisc 
2575;  fa  P.  2766;  ni  rothoirmisc 
2720;  rathoirmisc  4686;  p.p.  rotair- 
miscead  484,  2578;  v.n.m.  ba  tair- 
measc  979,  3484;  robo  thairmesc 
luith  3488;  ca  bar  toirmesc  1326; 
acca  tairmesc  1357;  aga  toirmesc 
4475,  4706;  can  toirmisc  4876;  can 
toirmeasg  4463 ;  a  thairmeasc  2087  ; 
do  thairmesc  2458,  2543;  do  toir- 
mesc a  tachair  3856;  ni  do  thoir- 
misc  4370. 

toiniim  (to-air- fuin)  I  bring  down, 
lower,  descend.  Ipv.  2  s.  toirind 
2951,  4408;  tairind  2546;  2  p. 
toirrnid  4187 ;  pret.  3  s.  rothirind 
1166,  3528,  3655;  nir-toirind  3828; 
rothoirind  4544;  rotairind  3324; 
toirrnis  4416;  3  p.  rothoirnsedar  1796; 
p.p.  3  s.  rotoirned  3313  ;  ratairned 
483;  v.n.  ar  toirnem  1098;  gan  t. 
3510;  a  tuirnem  2482;  aca  thair- 
nim  2564;  ac  toirniub  1972;  ac 
toirnim  2530;  ac  toirnium  3250 ;  do 
thoirnem  4241. 

toirse  f.  sorrow.  Ba  hadbul  tra  toirrsi 
3339;  truaignemela  toirrsi  1136;  re 
truma  na  toirrsi  3371;  ac  toirrsi 
truim  3307;  ag  toirsi  1014;  7  si  ac 
toirrsi  3453. 

toirsech  sorrowful  4646;  toirrsech 
1379,  1683,  4,  5;  toirrseach  3913; 
dingna  mo  mathar  truaighi-si  toir- 
sighi  3845;  ag  guba  truim  toirrsig 
4572 ;  mna  toirrseacha  4777 ;  ger-ba 
toirrsecha  na  sluaig  4794  ;  co  t.  3369, 
4911;  co  tai  toirrsech  3991,  4859; 
co  tairrsech  1936 ;  co  toirsech  3606 ; 
to  truag  toirrseach  4023 ;  compar.  is 
am  toirsigi-si  tar  eis  mo  thigerna 
ina  each  duine  3984. 

toisc  errand,  reason.  Dochuaid  si  an 
toisc  sin  4715;  an  toisc  'ma  tanag- 
sa  1349;  ni  risin  toisc  sin  4176, 
4640,  4694 ;  rofetar-sa  do  toisc  3716. 

tóisech,  v.  táisech. 

tóisigecbt  f.  leadership,  precedence 
2800. 

toitmendach  tottering,  faltering,  de- 
spondent, depressed  3370. 

toitmitbe  mowed  down  2868 ;  to-aith-, 
v/beg-,  ^bong-.   Ped.  11.  460. 

tol  f.  (1)  will  1083.  (2)  desire,  love. 
Uenerech  bandei  na  toili  760,  1839; 
Iunaind  bandei  na  toili  collaidi  1627. 
Cf.  an-toil  na  eolna,  TSh. 


424 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


tólathuile  f.  flood  of  a  deluge,  exces- 
sive flood  285. 

tolgach  shattering,  tearing,  crashing, 
Torand  tren  mortolgach  2935. 
Tolgadh  TSh.;  tolc  C.C.,  Tbc. 

toll  a  hole,  per/oration.    7  toll  tre  112. 

toll  holed,  pierced.  Cur-ua  taobhtholl 
3824;  taib  tholla  4689. 

tollaim  /  pierce,  penetrate,  break 
through.  Eotholl  3155,  3431,  4517; 
cid  rotreththoll  113;  p. p. p.  ba  tollta 
4845;  v.n.  'ca  tollad  4106;  ar  na 
tollad  3288. 

tomaithem  menace,  threat.  Tomaith- 
earu  231,  2949,  3473;  tommaithium 
273;  ac  tomaithium  2895;  ag  to- 
maithem 4005;  ar  t.  4427;  tomh- 
aitheam  1439;  o  'dchondcadar  na 
T.  an  tomaithem  sin  4866;  ar  to- 
maithem n-adbal  do  denam  4428. 

tomaithmech  threatening,  menacing 
995,  1993,  3272;  co  tenn  tomaith- 
mech 3748;  eo  tend  tomaithmech 
4860. 

tond  tonn  f.  (1)  wave.  Tond  mara 
2525 ;  tond  mara  moir  3093 ;  tre- 
than  na  tond  1800,  3040 ;  na  tonda 
trenmora  1965,  3405;  ger-ba  tonda 
tibreacha  3532;  0  thondaib  srotha 
4734.  (2)  surface,  sicard.  Ar  tuind 
talman  728.    Cym.  ton,  C. 

tondgal  f.  wave-attack,  wave-rush. 
Ara  tondgail  2925,  293,  Eg.  tondgar 
ivave-roar.  Cf.  tondgar  1427.  Tonn- 
gal  col.  waves,  C.C. 

tondgar,  wave-noise,  wave-roar  1427; 
ba  hadbul  a  thuili  7  a  thondgar 
2724.    Wi.,  Laws. 

tond-glan  having  bright  waves  4658. 

tond-glass  having  a  green  surface, 
green  surfaced  252,  836,  1609;  a 
Theib  thondglas  4424;  ar  an  Teib 
tondglas  4338;  mag  na  Teibi  tond- 
glaisi  4850;  do  muigib  tondglasa 
2633,  3500;  a  telchaib  tondglasa 
4084. 

tond-solus  having  bright  waves  698. 

topor,  topur  m.  well.  Tobar  mir- 
bulta  2670;  iter  topur  1394;  ba 
thobar  2669;  n.p.  tobair  1748. 

tor  m.  tower,  pile.  Cuich  ar  bad  tor 
4240 ;  rofhadodar  tor  teinead  4736  ; 
isin  tur  rigda  316 ;  i  tur  roard  2646 ; 
coma  samalta  ri  tor  3676;  fa  tra- 
scairthi  tuir  7  tigi  4207,  4742;  a 
mullaigib  tor  7  tiged  4105 ;  do  ditin 
na  tor  4108;  i  toraib  roarda  1951. 
C.C. 

torand  thunder.  Rocomerig  torand 
tren  2935 ;  tainig  trid  sin  torand 
bres  4266,  4741. 


torathar  m.  monster.  In  t.  157,  170, 
522,  900,  1200,  1694;  scath  an  tora- 
thair  1205,  1416,  157;  fo  torthraib 
muiridibh  3560;  conlobraidis  tora- 
thair  balba  1612;  do  thoratharaibh 
1666. 

tore  m.  boar.  Amal  tanig  an  tore  867; 
croicend  tuirc  449,  925. 

torchair,  do-rochair  fell.  Used  as 
pret.  of  tuitim ;  1  s.  no  co  torchar-sa 
4553;  3  s.  dorochair  2872,  4280, 
4553;  a  dorchair  4343;  ni  bad 
thaisci   ina  torchair  4431,  954;   co 

.  torcair  2889 ;  co  torchair  3104,  3143, 
3585;  7  torchair  3149;  darochair 
128,  2830;  dorochair  1160,  3165; 
eo  rotorchair  4010;  3  p.  co  torchra- 
dar  3119,  3271,  4873;  a  airem  a 
dorchratar  3764;  uair  torchratar 
3966. 

tormach  addition,  enlargement.  Cona 
tormuch  2975. 

torrach  pregnant  507,  4800. 

tor(r)achtain,  v.  ro-saigim. 

torrches  m.  pregnancy.  Don  toirrches 
sin  2688;  is  e  toirrches  rouaiaici4801. 

torrchim  /  make  pregnant.  Pret.  1  s. 
rothoirrchius  173. 

tosach  m.  beginning,  first  place  266; 
ni  tosach  1793;  cor-ba  le  tosach  na 
comlinga  2406  ;  connar-leced  tosach 
na  toisigeacht  2800 ;  da  taireachtain 
tosaich  2355 ;  ag  cosnam  thosaig 
4822;  ic  imchosnum  thosaich  isin 
choimling  2339;  o  thosach  an  do- 
main 1077;  re  tosach  an  lai  4850; 
cein  no  co  rue  A.  tosach  de  2360. 

tost,  tast  silence.  Ana  thast  1328;  ina 
tast  2164;  robai  'na  tast  1620;  co 
roibi  ina  thast  1785;  bid  bar  tast 
1734 ;  bi  it  tast  1680 ;  rabai  an  fisidh 
'na  thast  4155.    P.H. 

tostach  silent,  still.    Co  t.  2939. 

tostaim  I  am  silent.  Pret.  3  s.  tastais 
4417. 

tothlaigim  I  request,  beg.  Pret.  3  s. 
rotothlaig  804,  810. 

to-thocht  coming  2483,  toighecht  Eg. ; 
v.n.  of  do-tiagaim. 

tra.  trá  now,  indeed.  Tri  bliadna  tra 
1363;  rabái  trá  Ioif  4254;  acht  trá 
845  ;  cid  tra  acht  953  ;  faslait-sium 
trá  na  frasa  4236 ;  rascar  thrá  4325. 

tracht  strand,  shore.  O  tracht  1963 ; 
dar  trachtaib  traga  Eipir  2604;  tar 
trachtaib  in  talman  3041. 

traethaim  I  subdue,  overwhelm.  Pret. 
3  s.  is  tren  romthraid-sea  3981 ;  p. 
ipv.  3  p.  trsetar  uar  ferga  2157,  2459 ; 
v.n.  trsethad  1098,  3677;  mo  thrae- 
thad-sa  3626. 


42  5 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


traig  foot.  Co  cornraictis  a  troigthi 
3069;  d.p.  co  traigthib  732;  a.p. 
troichtbi  114. 

tráig,  trág  f .  strand,  shore.  Dar  trach- 
taib  traga  Eipir  2604;  i  traig  Israis 
2428. 

tráiglm  I  ebb.  Pres.  3  s.  na  traigend 
1782;  pret.  3  s.  rotraigh  3655;  v.n. 
do  tragad  1752,  1783. 

traigthech,  troigthech  m.  foot  soldier 
961.    C.C. 

trascraim,  do-scaraim  I  throw  doivn, 
overthrow.  Pres.  3  p.  rotrascraid 
951;  ipv.  2  p.  trascraidh  4187;  pret. 
3  s.  rotrascair  877,  2453,  2528,  2566, 
3128,  3528,  4204 ;  ratrascair  na  cran- 
doga4242;  abs.  trascrais  3118;  3  p. 
rotrascradar3386,  rod-trascratar  Eg.; 
p. p. p.  fa  trascairthi  4207;  v.n.  tras- 
crad  1716,  2531,  2564,  4241,  4245. 

tráth  hour.  An  trath  when;  an  trath 
chuireas  1296.    V.  adrasta. 

tráth-éirgi  risinq  time.  Solus  tratheirgi 
2195. 

tre  through :  prep,  with  ace.  s.  but  dat. 
pi. :  aspirates  tenues.  Tre  charadrad 
835;  tré  thana  na  cailleadh  917; 
tresna  sluagaib  3945;  tré  brathair 
1017;  tré  alius  1093;  tré  aslach 
1179;  tre  idbartaib  1187;  tré  fuil  7 
tre  indib  1193;  tre  gothaib  1213;  ni 
tre  m'  ole  fen  2952;  tré  lár  4056; 
poss.  Is.  trem  429;  2s.  tred  t' 
faistine  1331;  tred  chumachta-su 
3178 ;  tred  mignimaib  f  éin  4592 ;  3  s. 
trid  sin  4266 ;  f .  ac  dul  trempi  3287 ; 
3  p.  treompo  1909. 

With  art. :  trésan  sciath  sin  1205 ; 
tresin  talmain  1253;  tresin  n-ar 
4561 ;  trena  cnesaib  1908. 

treb  f.  homestead.  Treba  na  Teibi  do 
thuar  1324;  rofhagsad  treba  4614; 
amal  dotoglaidis  tigi  7  treaba  4058 ; 
um  trebaib  1170 ;  dochuadar  da  tre- 
baib  4918;  eo  treuaib  699;  ré  tre- 
baib 4221.    Fel* 

trebaire  security,  skill  in  ploughing, 
husbandry.  Rastail  troma  treuairi 
1278;  gan  tirecor  gan  trebaire  gan 
ar  gan  buain  1929.  Cf.  Latos,  Gloss. 
sub  tre  bar. 

trebar  prudent  559. 

trebhaim  I  plough,  till.  Pret.  3  s. 
rothreabh  70. 

trebraid  three-striped,  three-ringed 
2696.    Tbc. 

tre-brisim  I  break  through.  Cur- 
drebrisastair  1016,  dethbrisitar  Eg. 

tre-chendach  three-headed  1200. 

tre-chosta  three-footed  159,  167. 

tre-fhillte  threefold  2696. 


tregdaim,  tre-gat-  I  pierce.  Pret.  3  s. 
cor-tregd  1011;  co  rotregd  4010;  co 

.  rotregdastair  2782, 2089;  p. p.p.  treg- 
daithi  2867 ;  treghdai  3824.  Cf .  fot- 
raicim;  v.n.  arna  tregdad  4398. 

tréicim  I  leave,  forsake,  abandon.  Da 
mbraite  7  da  treigtea  na  Gregaig 
damsa  4029;  pret.  3  s.  rotreic  a 
buaid  comretha  2385;  v.n.  7  'gar 
trecun  2972. 

treitell-tacnracli  warrior-encountering 
600.  Cf.trentachrach345;  Mn.,Tbe. 
5378. 

trell  some  time,  a  while.  Tug  treall  a 
thoirrse  4679.    C.C. 

trelmaigim  I  prepare,  furbish.  Pret. 
3  p.  rothrélmaigset  a  n-armu  4847; 
part,  necess.  trelmaigi  4381.    Din. 

trelmaim  I  prepare,  furbish.  Pret.  3s. 
rotrealairn  58 ;  rotrellairn  2045. 

trén  (1)  strong.  Co  tren  4360;  da 
tharb  trena  1617 ;  compar.  corob 
treisi  Ulcan  1062;  amal  ba  tresi  di 
ac  dul  2583;  ua  tresi  2013.  (2) 
champion.  Koordaich  each  ri  a  trein 
7  a  thaisich  3046,  3922;  rosoiged  na 
trenu  7  na  taisechu  3219;  roder- 
scaich  dib  uile  in  tren  3253. 

trén-adbul  strong  and  huge  3077,  3632 ; 
an  talarn  trenadbal  4450. 

trén-amus  strong  assault.  G.s.  trena- 
muis  as  adj.  stalwart  2700. 

trén-armach  strongly  armed.  Do  tho- 
gail  na  Tebi  trenarmaigi  2729. 

trén-buailim  I  smite  strongly.  Pret. 
3  s.  rotrenbuail  2609,  3110;  tren- 
buailis  4529 ;  3  p.  co  rotrenbuailsit 
3628 ;  v.n.  'ga  trenbualad  3406. 

trén-buillech  dealing  strong  blows, 
strongly  smiting.  Cloidim  trom 
trenbuillech  3739. 

trén-chalma  strong  and  brave  3151, 
3958. 

trén-fer  m.  champion  960 ;  trenfher 
1406;  tainig  an  treinfer  879;  trillsi 
an  treinfhir  1091;  g.p.  tuitim  na 
treinfer  sin  964,  1124,  2012;  dona 
treinferaib  979 ;  re  na  trenfheraib 
4616;  rasrain  T.  na  treinfiru  1000; 
n.p.  trenfhir  1368,  4481. 

trén-fhobart  f.  strong  attack,  assault. 
Trenfhobairt  na  T.'3924,  4060;  risin 
trenfhobairt  tucsad  na  Greig  4129. 

trén-gal  f.  mighty  valour.  Nir-thair- 
misc  a  trengal-sium  sin  3271. 

trén-galar  m.  deep  grief.  Ba  t.  les 
2891. 

trén-glondach  doing  mighty  deeds, 
puissant  1009. 

trén-gonaim  I  wound  severely.  Pret. 
3  s.  rothrengon  4517. 


426 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


tren-gressim   /  strongly   urge.    Pret. 

3  s.  rotrengreis  3999 ;  v.n.  f .  ag  tren- 

gresacht  4446;  ac  trengressacht  3159; 

da    trengresacht  4325;    aga  thren- 

ghresacht  4372. 
trén-guba  strong  lamenting.   Ag  tren- 

guba  4456. 
trén-indsaigim  /  attack  strongly.  Pret. 

3  s.  rotrenindsaich  2807 ;   rotrenind- 

saig    2820,    3353;     dotreninnsaigb. 

3776;  v.n.  ar  trenindsaigid  a  bhra- 

thar  4427. 
trén-letraim  I  strongly  mangle.  Pret. 

3  s.  co  rrotrenletair  a  sirigh  3829. 
trén-rnarbaim   I  starkly   day.    Pret. 

3  s.  trenmarbais  3119 ;  co  rotrenmarb 

3431,    4205 ;     v.n.    ac    trenmarbad 

3957,  3963,  4213. 
trén-meirtnech  mightily  exhausted.  Co 

trom  trenmeirtnech  3904. 
trén-míleta  strong  and  warlike  3564. 
trén-mílid  m.  strong  soldier,  champion. 

Eogreis  in  trenmilid  4202;  a  thren- 

niiíid,  a  Tbeiss  4779. 
trén-mór  strong  and  great  2311. 
trén-oirrleach,  v.  airlech. 
trén-olc  m.  a  strong  evil.     Ac  tairgi 

trenuilc  1612. 
trén-shibal  strong-pacing.  Agtr.  4472. 
trén-tachar  strong  attack.   Ke  t.  975. 
trén-tairbertach,  v.  tairbertach. 
trén-taísech   m,   strong  chief.     Tren- 

taisich  tenda  3268. 
trén-togal  f.  strong  assault.    'Ca  tren- 

togail  4118. 
trén-urchur  a  strong  cast.    Dorat  roth- 

rénurchur  3786. 
treórach  expert,  strong.   Gacb  oen  dib 

ba  treoraig  usci  3517. 
tres  third.   An  tres  gaisgedach  one  of 

the  three  heroes  4879. 
tres  battle,  skirmish.    Nir-bo  tlaith  a 

tbres  3957,  4082,  4086,  4859,  4860; 

don  tres  sin  3222 ;  do  tbres  4082 ;  re 

gairbtbreas  C.  4291 ;  isin  tres  2825 ; 

asin  tres  4528 ;  tincaid  na  Tiabanda 

an  tres  4859,  4860;  fegais  Teis  an 

treas  sin  4875.   Wi. 
trese  f.  strength.   Ba  bi  tresi  310;  ba 

he  tresi  3245;  a.s.  treisi  3630.    C.C. 
tres-fecht   third  time.    An  tresfeacht 

4479. 
trét  herd,  flock.   G.p.  na  tret  1604;  na 

hregairi  tbret  2318;  ua  tbretaib  tei- 

cbeacha3207;  ua  tretaib  teitbmeacha 

3763. 
trethan  sea,  stormy  sea,  storm.   Tanic 

trethan  2932;  ua  dirim  trethan  na 

tond  1799;    re  trethan  1730,  3040, 

3501,  3627,  4816;  ara  trethan  7  ara 

tondgail  2925,  3063. 


trethanach  f.  storminess.  Ke  treth- 
naich  na  trenfher  3077,  treathan 
Eg. 

tre-tholl,  treth-tholl  perforated, 
pierced.  Acinn  apach  treththoll-sa 
3462;  tretholl  do  tbaebh  3599;  coma 
triur  tretholl  4876. 

tocQ-ttio'llaim  I  perforate, pierce  through. 
Pret.  3  s.  rotreththoll  113. 

tri  three.  Gid  tri  muir  848;  tri  mic 
1662,4873;  tri  bliadna  1363;  co  tri 
ciraibl452;  tri  mile  1397;  tri  ehet 
1468,  2691;  co  tri  tengthaib  2065; 
co  cend  tri  lá  7  tri  n-aidchi  4624. 

triallaim  I  proceed,  nth  nipt.  1  s.  trial- 
laim4176;  2  a.  triallai  2130,  2139; 

2  p.  ina  ni  triallaid  2482 ;  ipf .  3  p. 
rotrialldais  3517 ;  pret.  1  s.  inar- 
triallas  428;  3  s.  rothriall  3391,  4371; 
rotriall  1670,  3391 ;  triallais  4528, 
4876;  3p.rathriallsad4080;  rotriall- 
sad  2457;  rotriallsatar  1196;  pass, 
pres.  3  s.  ca  leth  trialltar  4530;  p.p. 

3  s.  dotriallad  1104;  rothriallad  4833; 
v.n.  ac  triall  235,  3040,  4547. 

triar,  triur  col.  three  persons.  At- 
chondcadar  sin  triar  talchar  2880; 
rothoit  in  triur-sa  dib  les  2835 ;  do- 
eirgedar  a  triur  4731 ;  triur  2477 ; 
coma  triur  tretholl  4876 ;  co  rotren- 
marb in  triar  3431. 

triath  m.  lord.  Eogob  gach  triath  7 
gach  tigerna  2805  ;  desid  'ma  thriath 
2640 ;  do  chosnum  a  triath  4482. 

trie  active,  nimble.  Co  trie  tindesnach 
3703,  4184,  4351.    CO. 

trichem-ruad  red-rushing  398.    C.C. 

tricntach  thirty  years  of  age,  in  the 
prime  of  life  385.  Cf.  trichtaige 
Laws,  C.C. 

trills  f.  tress,  hair.  Eoleic  a  trilis 
taidhlig  tromcais  3742 ;  beir  let  mo 
trilis  3850;  a  taithnemh  na  trillsi 
sin  3743;  n.p.  trillsi  1091;  a  trillsi 
taitneamacha  3457 ;  cona  trillsib 
182;  asa  trillsib  1035.    C.C. 

trc-caire  f.  mercy.  Do  dee  na  trocairi 
4762. 

trócar,  tróg-car  merciful.  Nir-bo  tro- 
cair  1027. 

troch  f.  wretch,  doomed  man.  13a  robad 
do  breith  do  troich  4399.    Wi. 

trom  heavy.  7  cloidim  trom  trenbuil- 
lech  'na  laim  3738;  do  thuaig  truim 
3161;  cairrgi  troma  874 ;  asa  trillsib 
troma  1036 ;  rastail  troma  1278  ;  co 
trom  trenmeirtnech  3904. 

trom-cas  heavy  and  curled.  Eoleic  a 
trilis  taidhlig  tromcais  3742. 

trom-chodlad  m.  heavy  sleep.  'Na 
tromchodlad  3960. 


427 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


tromda    heavy,    unwieldy.     An    corp 

tromda  4167.    Wi. 
trom-flechad  m.  heavy  netting,  heavy 

rain  4265. 
trom-gér  heavy  and  sharp  1015. 
trom-loige  a  pressing  heavily,  a  heavy 

pressure.    Ag  trornlaigi  air  4012. 
trot,   troit  f.  fight,  quarrel.    Troit   7 

tachar  419 ;  do  throit  641 ;  ag  troid 

1221.    The. 
trot-gal  f .  battle  valour,  martial  valour. 

Re  trodgail  na  trenmiled  4421. 
trúag,  tróg  (1)  wretched,  sad.    7  truag 

dono  nach  rothoitsius-sa  3381 ;  truag 

am  sin  1250,  2103,  3983;   ba  truag 

2634,    4580,  4910;    dochum  dingna 

mo  mathar  truaighi-si  3845;  antan 

ataid    truaig  1122;    is   truag  limsa 

3231,    3456,   3753,    4596;    as  truag 

duit  3642;  co  truag  toirrseach  4023. 

(2)  m.  wretched  ones.   V.p.  a  thruagu 

1860;    a   thruaga    1314;    a    truagu 

3223. 
trúag-neméla  sad  lamentation.    Ag  t. 

1014.   Nemele  CO.,  Wi. 
trúaige  f.  sorrow,  distress.   Ba  mor  a 

truaige  4653;  is  truaigi  lem  855. 
truaill  f.  scabbard,  sheath.   Asa  truaill 

taBbguirm  974.    Gr.  rpéy\-q.    G.C. 
truma  heaviness,  weight.    Ara  trama 

1293 ;  truma  na  mesi  sin  2486 ;  re 

truma  na  toirrsi  3371,  3395,  3639; 

ó  nar-fael-sam  trumma  7  tuinnsim 

3629. 
tu  thou.    7  tú  fein  4375;  is  tú  1028, 

2103;  ara  n-urailfi  tú  1330;  rafider 

tusa  1348;  tbussu  1771;  in  faicend  tu 

2655,  2657 ;  ni  tusu  cetduine  2683 ; 

leigfigtber   tú    fein    as    4028;    masa 

tbusa  sin  4723 ;  cid  bé  cia  tbú  4721 ; 

an   faicend  tu  Tit  4886;    a.s.  mar 

thusu  677. 
tuag  f.  axe.   Tuc  builli  do  tbuaig  truim 

3161 ;    co   tuaig  lethain   ledarthaig 

996. 
tuairgim,  to-orgim  / beat,  strike,  smite, 

attack,  smash.  Ipf.  3  p.  contuairgidis 

875,  980;  pret.  3  s.  rotbuairc  3503; 

3  p.  co  rrotuaii'csit  3628;  p.p.  (pres.) 

3  p.  rotuairgid  ocbta  2253  ;    v.n.  f. 

aca  tuarcain  3630 ;  occa  tuargai»  (sic 

corr. )  228 ;  arna  tuargain  3485,  3950 ; 

n.p.  in  tuargain  400.   Wi. 
tuairseach      foreboding.     Tuairseacba 

tromrleachaidh  4264.  Cf.  tuar  ceatba 

rainbow  Din. 
tuais-cert  the  North.   Iar  t.  207,  1395, 

1561;  it.  2674. 
tuais-certach  northern.   Comaidim  na 

Sceitbia  tuaiscertaigi  4770. 
tuaith-chill  crafty,  astute.    Don  fhir 


tbuath-cbell  406;  an  sagart  tuaith- 
cill  1189;  infertuaicbill2961.  Tua- 
chail  .i.  glic  O'Cl. 

tualaing  able,  fit:  sometimes  witb  gen. 
Ni  ua  tualaing  tacbair  1541 ;  nir-ba 
tualaing  ursclaidi  nahengnoma  1969 ; 
nim  tualaing-sea  aireom  2701,  2705; 
nir-ba  tualaing  tacbair  ris  3190 ;  nir- 
ba  tualaing-sium  tra  a  n-acallaim 
3240,3720;  ni  ba  tualaing  4218;  nar- 
ba  tualaing  duine  dib  ursclaigi  2936. 

tuar  a  bleaching.  Mar  lenid  arna  lan- 
tuar  3366. 

tuar  manure.  Do  tbuar  d'  apaigib 
1325.    Laws. 

tuarascbáil  f.  description.  Darat  M. 
test  7  tuariscbail  1678;  tuc  na  tua- 
rascbala  sin  2677.    P.H. 

tuargaibim,  to-for-od-gaibim  I  raise. 
Pret.  3  s.  tuargaib  623,  2156. 

tuasan  pursuit.  Co  rotbocaib  inn  ainb- 
tbine  garb  gemreta  a  tuasan  273. 
Tosun  Ml.  55«  1,  Tbur.  Gr.  411. 

tuasanach/JH/'-si/i)!(7-  An  badb  thuasan- 
acb  4314 ;  risin  muir  duasanaig 
4470. 

tuaslaicim  I  free,  dissolve,  solve.  Pret. 
1  s.  rotbuaslucus  155 ;  v.n.  tuaslucud 
160. 

tuath  I.  folk,  tribe.  Ri  tbuatb-tuaiscert 
2693;'  taisecb  mortnuaitbi  2779; 
taisecb  tuaithi  3192 ;  rorigsad  tuatba 
T.  sin  Creon  curata  4583;  rofacbaid 
tuatba  cen  taisecbu  3048 ;  rotim- 
saigid  na  tuatba  4898;  ar  tuatbaib 
na  T.  3475;  cona  tuatbaib  togaidi 
4338. 

tuath  left,  north.  O  T.  a  tuaigb  4905 ; 
a  tuaid  697,  2656. 

tuath-ebar,  tuag-ebar  northern  edge. 
Uar  tuaitbebracbaib  in  talman  2197 ; 
ar  tuagebair  an  talman  4270,  tuat- 
ebraibhEg.  Cf .  deseb&v southern  edge 
O'Dav.  No.  705,  Ériu  1.  40. 

tuath-mer  bad  and  mad,  vicious.  Da 
tbarb  trena  tbuatbmeara  211. 

tuicim  /  understand,  mark.  Ipv.  2  s. 
tuic  let  1231 ;  ipf.  3  s.  co  tuiced 
3497;  na  tuictis  2106;  pret.  3  s. 
rotbuig4143;  nir-tbuic  343 ;  dothuig 
4334  ;  rotbuigestair  450  ;  tugsadar 
4647,  tucustar  Eg. ;  3  p.  ni  mo  ro- 
tbuicsetar  344;  p.p.  is  ed  rothuiced 
asa  sin  2585. 

tuicsenach  intelligent  1190,  2962. 

tuicten,  tuicthi,  v.  tóictbiu. 

tuidecht  f.  coming  1574.    V.  toideacbt. 

tuigim  /  swear  by  :  with  ace.  Tuigim 
na  dei  2031.  Cf.  na  tugaibh  air  an 
talamb  S.G.  Mattb.  v.  35;  W.  na 
thwng  ddim  ib.  34;  toingim  Laws. 


428 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


tuile  flood.  Roeirigh  leosum  tuile  3616; 
tuili  858;  ba  hadbul  a  thuili  2724; 
robui  tuili  falcmar  3507 ;  rotraigh  7 
rotoirinn  tuile  srotha  I.  3655.    Wi. 

tuilighe  bastard.  Im  thurcaire  tui- 
lighe  120.   Tuilithe  Laws. 

tuillead  m.  addition.  Ua  tuillead  re 
badfuath  1605;  cona  thuiUed  2975; 
um  thuilleadh  fins  do  denam  doib 
4157. 

tuindsem  f.  bruising.  Ba  becail  leo 
tiiindseom  2485 ;  6  nar-fael-sam 
trurnma  7  tuinnsim  3629. 

tuindsnim,  to-ind-ness  (  =  sn)  I  crush, 
bruise.  Pres.  3  p.  rotbuindsnit  951; 
ipf.  subj.  3  s.  contuindsned  872, 
tuinnsed  Eg.;  3  p.  contuinsidis  curpo 
980;  v.n.  tuindsem  q. v. 

tuinide  fix  ed ,  sett  led,  immovable.  Carrac 
trenmor  tbuinidi  2311;  carrac  thend 
thunidi  3405;  na  cairgi  cendgarba 
cruaidi  troma  tuinidi  287;  cairrgi 
trorna-tuinidi  874. 

tuir  f.  tower.  In  tuir  tbalcbar  388, 
996.    Gor. 

tuirem  recounting,  enumerating.  Acca 
tuireoml937;  actuireamna slog 2705. 

túis  f.  frankincense  2213.    L.  thus. 

tuismim  I  generate,  beget.  Pret.  3  s. 
rothuisini-si  508;  p.p.  3  s.  o  ratuis- 
med  2689. 

tuitim  I  fall.  Pres.  3  s.  tuitid  4894, 
toitis  Eg. ;  fut.  rel.  conid  mé  fein 
tuitfes  1252;  fut.  2  s.  dofaeithis  3782; 
3  s.  rofaeth  4369,  3799;  subj.  1  s.  da 
faethaind-si  4380 ;  3  s.  da  teet  2592 ; 
rasu  rafeeth  2542;  is  leis  rate  352, 
rotbaeth  Eg. ;  3  p.  re  siu  dofaesad 
4342;  uair  rofaethsad  2508,  2852;  sec. 
fut.  3  s.  rotaesad  3816 ;  ipf.  3  s.  amal 
rotbuitid  4450,  notisad  Eg. ;  3  p. 
contoitidis  1000;  contudusstis  286; 
pret.  1  s.  rotboitsius-sa  3382  ;  dotuit- 
sius-sa  3846 ;  nacb  rotboitsius-sa 
3382;  3  s.  rotboit  3523,  3525,  2174, 
3540;  rathoitl886;  rothuitl252;  co 
rotoit  4661;  co  rortoit  2989;  no  co 
rathuit  1023;  7  dathuit  958;  dep. 
rotboitestar  745 ;  3  p.  rotboitsed 
3527,  2879;  co  rotoitsit  3553;  do- 
tbuitsed  4592;  rothuitsead  1020, 
3124,  4635;  cor-tbuitsead  3123;  ra- 
thuitsed  4509,  4034 ;  dothoitsit  3880 ; 
dep.  rotboitsetar  747 ;  rotbuitsetar 
1990;  rathuitseadar  949;  v.n.  tuitim 
964,  4484 ;  a  tuitim  3883 ;  aga  toir- 
mesc  thoitmi  4475;  a  toitim  1669; 
ag  tuitim  4269;  arna  thuitim  3164; 
arna  tboitim  sin  leis  3218,  4161 ;  ar 
toitim  lind  4886. 

tulach  f.  Itill.   Don  tulaig  a  roibi  915; 


arin  tulaigh  69;  asin  tulaig  2732; 
co  tulaich  taebalaind  taitnemaich 
2731;  um  tulcaib  1170;  co  tolchaib 
1608;  a  tulchaib  2656;  a.p.  tulcha 
252,  4698;  n.p.  tulcha  3500,  2970, 
4265. 

tul-ammus  front  attack.  G.s.  as  adj. 
tol-amais  forehead-smiting  1401, 
3088,  3446;  rodibraicdis  a  tulaib- 
trenamais  na  fir  sin  which  those  nun 
threw  by  front  attacks  2700.    C.C. 

tul-borb  sudden-foolish,  sudden  and 
rude  1285.    C.C. 

tulchube  vat,  vessel.  I  tulchomaib 
cuanda  comdaingne  2250. 

tul-fhaebrach  front-edged,  keen-edged 
1016;  seolas  in  sleig  taidlig  dul- 
faebraig  4496,  treinfaebrach  Eg. 

tul-mael  polled  in  front  1405. 

tul-maidm  sudden  burst,  fissure.  Resin 
t.  talman  2965,  2968.    C.C. 

tul-mer  suddenly  mud,  squirming, 
writhing.    Tamain  thulmera  3504. 

tul-port  forehead.  Dar  t.  a  gnuisi  2528. 
C.C.  5554. 

turcaire  waif,  offcast.  Im  thurcaire 
120.    Tur-chaii-the  C.C. 

turcarthach  waif-strewn.  Kisin  muir 
turcarthaig  4470. 

turcbaim,  to-for-od-gub  I  rise.  V.n. 
turcbál  f.,  re  turggabail  1210. 

tux-loch  winter-loch.  Tmlaigi  1748. 
Din. 

turscar  gear,  substance,  plantations  (?). 
Co  timairgid  leo  turseara  in  talman 
3137.  Acall.;  turscar,  troscar  sea- 
shore, sea-icrack  Din. 

turus  m.  journey,  expedition.  Is  truag 
in  turus  2107;  can  techt  an  torus 
sin  4656 ;  ac  techt  in  turisa  2181 ; 
don  turus-sa  1215,  3793;  don  turis 
1845 ;  do  thurus  1706 ;  re  techt  don 
turus  sin  3736. 

tús  beginning.  Tús  in  lai  roime  3863; 
ar  tus  669,  850.  1193,  1289,  2192, 
3382,  4297 ;  don  fhir  ar  tus  690. 

ua  m.  grandson,  v.  aue. 

úachtar  m.  surface,  top.     Uar  uachtar 

doib  1966  ;  uachtar  na  haband  3534. 
uachtarach  upper,  topmost  4142,  4889. 
uachthir    above :     with    comparative 

sense  governing  dat.   Uachthir  diam- 

raib  a  etaich  1488. 
úaill,  úall  f.  pride  629. 
úaim,  úama  f.  cave.    G.s.  a  hiarthar 

na    huama    49,    55,    60;     a.s.    co 

huamaidh    45;    a.p.   uamanda  252, 

271,  1851.    Uama  C.C. 
úaimnech     horrified.      Imnach     619, 

uaimnech  Eg.    Omhnach  The. 


429 


VOCABULARY  AND  INDEX 


úair  f.  (1)  hour,  time.  In  uair  sin  1258 ; 
inn  uair  sin  1413;  isinn  uair  bice 
sin  4476;  isinn  uair  2204;  re  hin- 
gargi  na  huaire  sin  314;  co  haes  na 
fuairi  sin  1538,  2996.  (2)  when.  An 
uair  dob  og  me  1224;  in  uair  ad- 
cbondairc  na  claictbigi  4841.  (3) 
because,  since  510,  956;  uair  atá 
1074.  (4)  alternately.  Ar  n-uair 
4636,  q.v.  (5)  sometime  1681. 
daisle   f.  nobility,   honour  143.     Gan 

uaisli  1797. 
úaiti  fewer,  lonelier.    Ger  uaiti  1471 ; 
compar.  of  úatbate,  uaite  few  The, 
Fel.2 
úaitne  f.  pillar,   support.     Ar  uaitni 
csema  1167;  uar  ind  n-uaitni  2472; 
ar  uaitnedaib  iaraind  2470. 
úallach  proud,  gallant,  gay  1998,  2196. 
dam-tWg-  f.  care-dwelling  148,  179. 
uanfad  foa m  2064.    C. C. 
úarda  f.   the  frigid  zone.     On  uarda 
2656 ;     on  "uarda    oigretaig     3032. 
C.C. 
úas,  ós  above:  prep,  witb  dat.    Os  in 
degsbluag  3084 ;  uas  eind  na  Teibi 
4267,  2609;  uasa  cind  2569,  3239; 
uasa    cbind   3538;    os    cind    4195, 
4546 ;    os  bar  cinn  4565 ;    osa  cind 
947;  os  ar  cind  1851;  oscendaib3459; 
uas  catbracbaib  1366;  uas  na  long- 
portaib  1367;  os  na  sluagaib  3088, 
4842;  3  s.  uasa  gualaind  943;  os  a 
gualaind  3319 ;  3  p.  uastu  1818, 1926, 
3085,  4739,  4820;  uasta  3352,  3575; 
an-uas    from    above    2489,     3144, 
4534. 
úasal    noble.      Apaill    uasal   4249;     7 
Ecbtor  uasal  3932 ;  ni  buasal  3607, 
4854 ;  an  ri  uasal  1109 ;  uasalsagart 
3881;    sochraideada    in    rig    uasail 
1387;   do  dainib  uaisli  4765;   cona 
rigaib  uaisli  1379;    da  ndeib  uaisli 
2992;  persanda  uaisli  623,  2018;  7 
idbarta  uaisli  imdai  2183 ;  re  buais- 
lib  1259. 
uathad  singleness,  a  few,  few.    Is  lor 
uatbad  3928 ;  ua  buatbad  eolaig  inn 
usci  sin  1752. 
uch  alas.   Ucb  tra  857,  2107;  ucb  a 

mbic4391;  p.-xvi.  W  **'* 

uchbad  a  wail,  sigh.  Ba  uebbad  ain 
4490;  ba  mor  a  uebbad  4558.  C.tf. 
ucht  breast,  bosom.  Co  rotrenbuailsit  a 
ucbt  7  a  urbruinne  3629,  4033;  ac 
bualadb  a  hocbta  3588;  da  ucbt 
313;  ina  hucbt  2101,  3934;  eter  a 
ucbt  7  a  imlinn  927;  rotregdastar 
a  bucbt  2089 ;  re  n-ocbtaib  2938 ; 
ara  n-ocbtaib  401;  o  bocbtaib  525; 
a. p.  rotrascraid  7  rotbuindsnit  ocbta 


na  n-ánrad  951 ;   rotbuairgid  ocbta 
2253. 
ucht-bruinde  bosom,  breast,  lower  part 
of  the   breast.    Co  tarla  sleg   trom 
'na  ucbtbruindi   4120 ;    aniss  a  n- 
ucbt-bruinde  Poliniceis  4548,  an  icb- 
tar  a  bruinne  Eg. 
úd,  út  yonder,  yon,  there,  that.    Ar  an 
én  úd  1251 ;  as  iad  in  dias  ud  2690. 
uid  notice,  heed.    Ni  tbugsad  da  n-uid 
4621;   intan  doberead  da  uid  1418. 
V.  oid. 
uile  all.   Tar  dreitb  tbalman  uili  914; 
is  brec  uili  4173 ;  rotbinoil  na  buile 
dee   1054;   adrubradar  na  mna  uili 
4787 ;  ua  dicbeltai  uili  na  dirmanda 
sin  2336;  a  cridedaib  na  nGreg  uili 
1137;  rocreidsit  do  uili  4900. 
uilind  elbow.    Da  uillibb  3624. 
uillech     sharp-edged,    sliarp-cornered, 
jagged.      Do   sbleig   uillig   agbrnair 
3823.    Tbc.  5428. 
uir-ecla  f.  great  fear  727. 
ulad  tomb,  altar-stone.    Don  ulad  1220,    N. 
I.  don  dulad  Eg.    Wi.,  Cor.  Tr.  166, 
O'Dav.  961,  Din.;   occasion,  Acall. 
758. 
umaide  brazen,  made  of  brass   1434, 

1452,  2470,  3941,  4103. 
umla  f.  humility,  condescoision.    Ind 

umla  670.    Wi. 
ur-áibind  very  pleasant,  very  beauti- 
ful.    Dar    doirrsib    urarda    uraibni 
324 ;  dar  secbt  ndoirrsib  delitbi  arda 
uraibni  3023. 
úraide  green,  fresh.    D'  fbualascaib  ali 
uiaidi  2211.     Húrda  .i.  viridis  Sg. 
35b3;  húrdai  viridia  Ml.  18b2. 
ur-áilim  urge,  enjoin.    Fut.  2  s.  cacb 
aen  ara  n-urailfi  tu  1330;   v.n.  ag 
urail  ana  cetna  orro  1108. 
ur-ard,  ur-aird  very  high  322,  324, 

610,  699,  1393. 
urbadach     baleful    756,    961,     1877, 
2062,  2608,  3817;    'ca  fbaigsin  'na 
stuaig  agmair  urbadaig  4232,  4878. 
C.C. 
ur-bág,  air-bág  f.   contending,   boast- 
ing,  glory.     G.s.   aisgedaig  urbaga 
975,  1100.    Wb.  16d8,  C. 
ur-baid  bale,   bane,  misfortune.    G.s. 
tedmanda  imda  uruada  544;  aitbin- 
deda  adanta  urbada  1366,  1649;  na 
bairde  urbada-sa  2181.    Fis  Ad.  33, 
Lism.  3894. 
ur-bruinne  f.  bosom,  chest.    A  ucbt  7 
a    urbruinne    3629,   4033;    da    ur- 
bruindi   313;    rotbuairgid    ocbta    7 
urbruindeda  2253.    C.C. 
urchur  n.m.  shot,  cast.     Ni   burcbar 
n-imroill  tuc  3769 ;  urcbur  n-imroill 


430 


VOCABULARY  AXD  INDEX 


do  tabairt  dó  3789 ;  int  urchar  2086, 
2434;  ro-thrén-urchur  3786;  don 
urchur  sin  3195,  3313;  urchur  saigti 
1962,  2347;  tuc  urchar  n-indill 
dirueh  2853,  4888,  1010;  seolaid  in 
urchur-sa  4499 ;  cia  thuc  in  n- 
urchur  sin  3295;  ger-uat  imda  ur- 
chair  do  3419 ;  is  cumai  tuc  D.  na 
hurcbaru  sin  3830;  ar  urcharaib 
2903;  'na  urchuraib  3185;  d'  ur- 
churaib  dimaine  3818. 

ur-derg  very  red.  Aitbindeada  ur- 
derga  3143. 

ur-dergaim  I  redden,  make  crimson. 
Ipv.  2  s.  urderg  do  laim  4396. 

ur-ecla  great  fear.  Eogob  urecla  hi 
2391  frogob*  urecla  adbul  iad  2509. 
P.H. 

ur-gairdiugud  m.  cheering,  cncourag- 
ing,  entertaining,  exhilarating  245, 
302,  2274.    C.C. 

ur-gTáin  loathsomeness,  hideousness. 
Re  burgrain  3448. 

ur-gránda  loathsome,  hideous  2072. 

ur-lám  ready  669,  1278;  urlum  674. 

ur-land,  urlond  f.  haft,  spear-haft.  O 
fograinne  co  hurlaind  3055.-  Aur. 

ur-lár  m.  floor,  foundation.  Pret.  3  s. 
rofegastair  urlara  325.    TSh. 

ur-lumaigim  I  get  ready, prepare.  P.p. 
3  s.  rohuiiumaiged  703. 

ur-naide  awaiting.  Ag  urnaidi  fhais- 
tine  1307,  ic  f urnaidi  Eg.,  1308;  'ga 
hurnaidi  2484. 

ur-nocht  naked,  bare,  unsheathed. 
Claideb  urnocht  2127, 4033  ;  a  hingne 
umochta  905;  a  n-airm  urnochta 
949,  1271,  2174,  2574,  4821. 

ur-nochtad  in.  exposing,  baring,  un- 
sheathing.   Aga  n-urnochtad  4449. 

ur-omun  f.  terror.   Inn  u.  3451. 


urxand  f.  point.  Co  rug  urraind  4526; 
cor-gab  urraindi  1017.    Tbc,  C.C. 

ur-ri  m.  viceroy,  legate,  officer  2703; 
n.p.  uirrig4616;  urrigl530;  urrigha 
3861 ;  gan  urrign  dib  3048 ;  cona 
furrigaib  3028. 

ursa  doorpost.  He  hursaind  327,  328; 
n.p.  co  rathairrngid  urrsanda  4420. 

ur-sclaige  defence.  Nir-ba  tualaing 
ursclaidil969 ;  nar-ba  tualaing  duine 
dib  ursclaigi  2936.  Ersclaige  v.n.  of 
arclichim.    Str.  Stories. 

urtharrsna  across,  opposite.  Ar  cind 
u.  892;  ara  chind  u.  988.    Tbc. 

ur-tosach  very  beginning.  Urthosach 
573;  a  n-urtosach  na  haidebi  4613; 
ri  hirthosach  na  baidchi  2257. 

ur-trlall  keenly  attempting,  striving, 
struggling.    Ác  u.  aitheirgi  3487. 

ur-uaman  great  terror,  dread,  con- 
sternation 721. 

ur-úath  great  horror.  Ua  huruath  615, 
726. 

ur-usa  very  easy  1106,  3944 ;  co  nar- 
fhurusa  aichni  a  chuirp  2097.    C.C. 

usa  easier.  Dobad  usa  1116;  uair  rap 
usa  limsa  3176;  7  rob  usa  duit  3754 

usge  m.  water.  In  ben  tuc  int  uisci 
2158;  usci  bad  fherr  ina  int  usci 
1807;  ua  huathad  eolaig  inn  usci 
sin  1753 ;  d'  iarraid  inn  usci  1792 
d'  ol  uisci  2771 ;  d'  uisqui  1154 
gan  a  uisqui  do  tragad  1751 ;  g.p 
inada  na  n-uisced-sa  1749;  dar  in 
bearaib  uisqui  na  Greci  1744 ;  dich 
lid  uisqui  cboillti  1746. 

utmaille  f.  restlessness.  Ba  hingnad 
udrnailli  na  tuicten  4301;  re  hud- 
mailli  1342. 

utmall  restless  241,  594;  co  hudmall 
929;  a.p.  utmalla  227. 


tonivenatyofQiasgo* 
CeRIc  Class  Library 


431 


PRINTED  IN  ENGLAND 

AT  THE  CAMBRIDGE  UNIVERSITY  PRESS 

BY  J.  B.  PEACE,  M.A. 


7  <M» 


