n  «  A  o: 
H3VX3AV3  ; 


ft 


s(^i:ír^u/|ÍK.iL 


I    C.  .t: 


v/t 


->- 


M, 


/ 


/  2^ 


v^J^ 


7 


?— '-- 


Y      ;n.4_     ^..^   ^y£^^^ 


íq^ 


:^-^ 


/ 


F^ 


/ .  // 


^  ^  /-^ 


7'<.^"; 


'/ 


/-i. 


\r. 


^u^J^ 


^%^ 


^TC'-C*^^^        ,T 


^  Lr^L  Kjt^  /^^-   ^        y 

/  - 


c^-r. 


'V        I 


'^J 


rr. 


"tC 


x^^'i^rTt 


7 


^     A^.     / 


< 


Y-^^ 


<^/^ 


^: 


TRANSACTIONS 


THE    OSSIANIC    SOCIETY. 


TRANSACTIONS 


THE    OSSIAMC    SOCIETY, 


FOR  THE  YEAR 


1854. 


VOL.  IL 


)^e)S    ZJ'Sl)^    Ct)0M2ljH 


DUBLIN: 

PRINTED  UNDER  THE  DIRECTION  OF  THE  COUNCIL, 

FOR   THE    C8E    OF    THE    MEMBERS. 

1855. 


ipe)S    Z)5t)^   CI)0N2ljN    Cl))HN-Sl)iejBl)6; 


THE  FESTIVITIES 


AT    THE    UOU8K    OF 


COMN  OF  CEANN-SLEIBHE, 


COUNTY  OF  CLARE. 


EDITED    BY 


NICHOLAS  O'KEARNEY,  ESQ. 


DUBLIN : 

PRINTED    FOR    THE    OSSIANIC    SOCIETY, 

BY    JOHN    O'DALY,    9,    ANGLESEY-STREET. 
1855. 


TUB  PCELICATIONS   OF   THIS   SOCIETT  ARB   NOT   iOLD ;    BEING    SIKKTLr 
LUIIIBD  TO  StBMUliRS. 


rHINTED   liV   GOUDWIN,    SOS,   AN1>   NETHHIUXITT,     I 'J,   M/KI.UOJtOUCU-SMEET,   KUIILIH. 


S^lje  (Dssiauií  SociehT, 


FouvDKD  on  St.  Patrick's  Day,  1853,  for  the  Preservation  and  Publi- 
cation of  iMSS.  in  the  Irish  Language,  illustrative  of  the  Fenian  period 
of  Irish  History,  &c.,  with  Literal  Translations  and  Notes. 


OFFICERS  ELECTED  ON  THE  17th  MARCH,   1835. 

prrniiinit : 

Standish  Hayes  O'Grady,  Esq.,  Erinagh,   Castleconnell, 

i]irt-|3rr5ÍiiEiite : 

Rev.  EusEBT  D.  Cleaver,  A.B.,  Witney,  Oxon. 

Tltaddeus  O'Mahony,  Esq.,  A.B.,  24,  Trinity  College,  Ihiblin. 

Cimnril : 

Rev.  Ulick  J.  Bourke,  St.  Patrick's  College,  Maynooth. 

Rev.  John  Clarke,  R.C.C,  Louth. 

Professor  Connellan,  Queeii's  College,  Cork. 

Rev.  James  Goodman,  A.B.,  Skibhereen. 

William  Hackett,  Esq.,  Midleton,  Cork. 

James  Hardiman,  Esq.,  M.R.I. A.,  Gulway. 

Rev.  Patrick  Lamb,   I'.P.,  Newtowuhamilton. 

Conor  Mac  Sweeny,  Esq.,  Passage  West,   Cork. 

M.  iM'GiNTY,  Esq.,  Bra;/. 

John  O'Daly,  Esq.,  O'Dahfs  Bridge,  Kelts. 

John  O'Donovan,  LL.D.,  !\LR.LA.,  Dublin. 

John  O'Duffy,  Esq.,  Dublin.  ' 

Rkv.  John  L.  O'Flynn,  O.S.F.C,  21,  BlackhalUstreet,  Dublin.  f). . 

Nicholas  O'Kearney,  Esq.,  i)«i/in.    ___ _       r^VS.^/Si  ^  'Aao, 

jAMts  O'Mahony,  Esq.,  Bandon.  "  -      7       ^? 


Andrew  Ryan,  Esq.,  Gorlkelly  Castle.  Borrisoleigh.  o. ^  /j/viy^ /  //  ~ 


jAMtS  O'ilAHONY,  EsQ 

Andrew  Ryan,  Esq.,  < 

John  Windele,  Esq.,  Blair's  Castle,   Cork 

Thaddeus  O'Mahony,  Esq.,  A.B.,  24,  Trinity  College,  Dublin. 

Mmnn\  ,^rrrrtarii : 

Mr.  John  O'Daly,  9,  Anglesey-street,  Dublin. 


THE  main  object  of  the  Society  is  to  publish  manuscripts,  consisting  of 
Poems,  Tales,  and  Romances,  illustrative  of  the  Fenian  perioil  of  Irish 
History;  as  well  as  other  documents  illustrative  of  tlie  Ancient  History 
of  Ireland,  in  the  Irish  language  and  character,  with  literal  translations, 
and  notes  explanatory  of  the  text  when  practicable. 

Subscriptions  (5s  per  aimum)  are  received  by  the  Treasurer,  24, 
Trinity  College,  by  any  member  of  the  C'ouncil,  or  by  the  Honorary 
Secretary,  Mr.  Jolin  O'Daly,  9,  Anglesey-street,  Dublin,  with  whom 
the  publications  of  the  Society  lie  for  distribution  uniong  the  members, 
and  fi'om  whom  prospectuses  can  be  obtained. 


GENERAL  KULES. 


1.  Tliat  the  Society  shall  be  called  the  Ossianic  Society,  and  that 
its  object  shall  be  the  publication  of  Irish  Manuscripts  relating  to  the 
Fenian  period  of  our  history,  and  other  historical  documents,  with  literal 
translations  and  notes. 

2.  That  the  management  of  the  Society  shall  be  vested  in  a  President, 
Vice-presidents,  and  Council,  each  of  whom  must  necessarily  be  an 
Irish  scholar.  The  President,  Vice-presidents,  and  Council  of  the  So- 
ciety shall  be  elected  annually  by  the  members,  at  a  General  Meeting,  to 
be  held  on  the  Seventeenth  Day  of  March,  the  Anniversary  of  the  So- 
ciety, or  on  the  following  Monday,  in  case  St.  Patrick's  Day  shall  fall  on 
a  Sunday.  Notice  of  such  meeting  being  given  by  public  advertisement 
inviting  all  the  members  to  attend. 

3.  That  the  President  and  Council  shall  have  power  to  elect  a  Trea- 
surer and  Secretary  from  the  Members  of  the  Council. 

4.  The  receipts  and  disbursements  of  the  Society  shall  be  audited  an- 
nually by  two  Auditors,  elected  by  tlie  Council;  and  the  Auditors'  Re- 
port shall  be  published  and  distributed  among  the  members. 

5.  In  the  absence  of  the  President  or  Vice-President,  the  Members  of 
Council  present  shall  be  at  liberty  to  appoint  a  Chairman,  who  will  not 
thereby  lose  his  right  to  vote.  Three  members  of  the  Council  to  form  a 
quorum. 

6.  The  funds  of  the  Society  shall  be  disbursed  in  payment  of  expenses 
incident  to  discharging  the  liabilities  of  the  Society,  especially  in  the 
publication  department,  and  no  avoidable  expenses  shall  be  incurred. 

7.  Every  member  shall  be  entitled  to  receive  one  copy  of  the  Society's 
Publications  ;  and  twenty  extra  copies  of  each  work  shall  be  printed  for 
contingencies. 

8.  The  funds  of  the  Society  shall  be  lodged  in  Bank,  in  the  name  of 
the  President,  Secretary,  and  Treasurer  of  the  Society,  or  any  three 
members  the  Council  may  deem  proper  to  appoint. 

9.  The  Council  shall  have  power  to  elect  additional  members,  and  fill 
vacancies  in  its  own  body. 

10.  Members  of  Council  residing  at  an  inconvtnient  distance  from 
Dublin  shall  be  at  liberty  to  vote  by  proxy  at  elections. 

11.  Membership  shall  be  constituted  by  the  annual  payment  of  Five 
Shillings,  which  sum  shall  become  due  on  the  1st  of  January  in  each 
year. 

12.  The  Ossianic  Society  shall  publish  every  year,  one  volume  or 
more  if  their  funds  enable  them. 

13.  No  change  shall  be  made  in  these  Rules,  except  at  a  General 
Meeting  ;  the  proposer  and  seconder  of  any  motion  for  such  change, 
sIkiII  lodge  a  notice  of  their  intention  in  writing,  with  the  Secretary, 
twenty  clear  days  before  the  day  of  General  Meeting, 

14.  Tiiat  all  matters  relating  to  the  Religious  and  I'olitical  differences 
prevailing  in  this  country,  be  strictly  excluded  from  the  meetings  and 
publications  of  the  Society. 


SECOND    ANNUAL    REPORT, 

£BAD   ON   ST.   PATUICKS   DAT,   MAKCH  17,   1855. 


The  Council  of  the  Ossianic  Society  beg  to  submit  to  their  members 
and  the  public  this  their  second  annual  report,  and  feel  much  pleasure 
in  announcing  that  the  Society  has  progressed  most  favourably  during 
the  past  year. 

The  Council  commenced  operations  with  the  names  of  but  50  mem- 
bers on  their  books  ;  they  have  since,  however,  enrolled  1 16 ;  and  the 
Society  now  has  the  honor  of  numbering  16G  members. 

The  Council  have  already  published  tiie  first  volume  of  their  Transac- 
tions, and  the  value  and  interest  of  this  work  can  best  be  ascertained 
by  a  reference  to  the  flattering  review  it  has  received  in  the  Athenaum 
and  other  leading  journals  of  the  day.  The  book  was  ready  for  delivery 
in  October  last,  and  the  impression  is  now  nearly  exhausted. 

The  Council  have  much  satisfaction  in  informing  the  Society  that 
the  second  volume  of  their  Transactions — a  very  curious  tract — is  nearly 
prepared  for  press  and  will  be  in  the  hands  of  members  within  a  few 
months. 

The  Council  beg  to  call  attention  to  the  fact,  that  there  are  at  present, 
mouldering  and  neglected,  a  great  number  of  valuable  Irish  manuscripts, 
as  well  in  the  hands  of  individuals  as  in  public  libraries.  Of  these 
they  are  resolved  to  print  as  many  as  possible,  more  especially  those 
relating  to  that  misty  period  of  Irish  history  from  which  the  Society  has 
adopted  its  n.ime  ;  and  thus  they  hope  in  time  to  furnish  a  saiisfactory 
and  practical  answer  to  the  often-repeated  question — "  Is  there  anything 
to  read  in  Irish  ?" 

It  is  also  reasonable  to  suppose  that  the  future  historian  and  antiqua- 
rian of  Ireland  (and  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  our  country  will  yet  find  one 
worthy  of  the  name),  will  recognise  the  utility  of  such  books  ;  for 
though  they  are  not  as  strictly  historical  as  the  Annals,  Genealogical 
Poems,  &c.,  which  are  the  labours  of  other  Societies,  there  is  mucli 
truth  in  their  supposed  fiction,  and  they  afford  a  valuable  picture  of  the 
state  of  thought  and  manners  (jf  a  remote  period. 

It  lias  been  already  stated  with  what  a  small  number  of  members  the 
Conned  began  tlieir  work  ;  but  confident  of  support  from  a  large  num- 
ber of  their  countrymen  in  an  undertaking  which  might  truly  be  term- 
ed national,  tiiey  determined  to  make  the  attempt,  and  the  result  proves 
that  their  confidence  has  not  been  misplaced.  For  the  support  which 
they  have  received  they  desire  to  return  their  sincere  thanks. 


10 

Tlio  Council  uudertook  the  task,  in  many  ways  arduous  and  respon- 
si'ole,  and  that  not  least  in  a  financial  point  of  view.  They  determined, 
however,  that  their  publications  should  not  be  accessible  to  the  very 
affluent  only,  and  therefore  dispensed  with  entrance  fees,  and  fixed  the 
terms  of  membership  at  Five  Shillings  per  annum  I  and  they  have 
reason  to  believe  they  adopted  a  prudent  course.  For  this  small  sum 
each  member  shall  annually  receive  at  least  one  volume  of  the  Society's 
Transactions,  the  size  of  which  ■will,  of  course,  depend  upon  the  num- 
ber of  members  ;  nor  will  the  subscriptions  be  required  until  the  book 
is  ready  for  delivery. 

The  Council  have  pleasure  in  stating,  that  the  liabilities  incurred  by 
the  publication  of  the  first  volume  for  the  past  year  are  very  nearly 
liquidated.  They  also  beg  to  say,  that  no  part  of  the  Society's  funds 
have  been  paid  to  editors,  officers,  &c .,  for  their  services,  all  expenses 
incurred  being  solely  for  printing,  binding  and  jjostage  ;  and  when  the 
outstanding  subscriptions  have  been  paid  in,  they  will  have  a  balance 
in  hand. 

Under  the  above  circumstances  nothing  is  required  to  stimulate  the 
Council  to  renewed  exertion  but  the  support  of  their  countrymen  and, 
as  they  again  repeat,  they  trust  liberally  to  obtain  it,  now  that  they 
have  put  it  within  the  reach  of  so  many  to  further  their  design.  Their 
design  is  to  do  for  Ireland  what  the  Scotch  have  done  for  Scotland,  and 
the  Welsh  have  done  for  Wales — to  reveal  and  place  beyond  danger  of 
perishing  for  ever  some  of  the  monuments  of  the  ancient  language  of 
their  country.  This  is  a  task  that  every  nation  has  executed  for  itself, 
except  barbarous  and  savage  tribes.  Ireland  alone,  alas !  has  followed 
the  example  of  the  latter,  and  there  is  fear  that  if  she  does  not  rise  up 
and  redeem  the  past  years  of  apathy,  with  respect  to  her  native  litera- 
ture, the  work  will  be  for  ever  taken  out  of  her  hands ;  for  even  as  in 
the  critical  and  etymological  investigation  of  the  Celtic  languages  the 
continental  scholars  already  stand  first,  so  the  day  may  come  when  the 
Irish  shall  look  to  foreigners  not  only  for  the  scientific  anatomy  of  a 
word,  but  for  light  concerning  the  songs  and  legends,  tlie  wars  and 
sports  of  their  fathers. 

That  no  man  need  fear  violence  to  his  private  opinion  will  appear  by 
a  reference  to  the  Fourteenth  General  Rule  of  the  Society,  which  de- 
clares that  nothing  bearing  upon  the  religious  and  political  differences 
which  prevail  in  this  country  shall  be  introduced  into  the  Society's 
publieatious. 


BOOKS  PRINTED  BY  THE  SOCIETY. 

I.  Cac  3bAbnA  ;  or,  the  Prose  and  Poetical  Account  of  the  Battle  of 
Gabhra  (Garristown),  in  the  county  of  Dublin,  fought  A.D.,  283,  be- 
tween Cairbre  Liffeachair,  king  of  Leinster,  and  the  Fenian  forces  of 
Ireland,  in  which  the  latter  were  conquered,  and  their  ranks  finally 
broken  up.     Edited  by  Nicholas  O'Kearney,  Esq. 

II.  Pejr  i^15e  Ct)oi)&ii)  Chli)t}  Sblélbe  ;  or,  The  Festivities  at  the  House 
of  Conan  of  Ceann  Sleibhe,  a  romantic  hill  which  is  situated  on  the 
borders  of  the  Lake  of  Inchiquin,  in  the  county  of  Clare.  Edited  by 
N.  O'Kearney,  Esq. 

This  document  contains  a  colloquy  between  Fionn  and  Conan,  In  which  much  light  is 
thrown  on  the  Ancient  Topography  of  Muoster  ;  and  also  on  the  Habits  and  Customs  of 
the  Fenian  Chieftains. 

BOOKS  IN  PREPARATION. 

I.  A  VOLUME  OF  OSSIANIC  POEMS.  To  be  edited  by  the 
Secretary. 

II.  CóttU]5eAcc  OfjjAttnjA&A  U|  Ofjuibije  Asuf  SbniviiJtje,  ]V5]ot)  Cljott- 
n)\x]c  lijejc  idljTtc  ;  or,  an  Account  of  the  Pursuit  of  Diarmuid  O'Duibhne 
and  Grace,  the  daugliter  of  Cormac  Mac  Airt,  Monarch  of  Ireland  in  the 
Third  Century,  who  was  married  to  Fionn  Mac  Chumhaill,  from  whom 
she  eloped  with  Uiarmuid.  To  them  are  ascribed  the  Leaba  Cailhghes 
(Hags'  Beds),  so  numerous  in  Ireland.     To  be  edited  by  the  President 

OF    THE    SoCIETYi 

This  Tract  is  copied  from  a  manuscript  made  by  a  celebrated  Scribe  named  Foran,  who 
lived  at  Portlaw,  iu  the  county  of  Waterford,  A.D.  1780.  It  carries  the  reader  from  cave 
to  cave,  where  it  is  supposed  the  fugitives  took  shelter  from  the  hot  pursuit  of  tlie  injured 
hero,  Fionn,  giving  the  legendary  history  of  every  cave  which  they  frequented. 

ill.  a.5AlUii)  i)A  SeAt)ó]p.]6e  ;  or,  the  Dialogue  of  the  Sages  :  an  His- 
torical Work  in  Prose  and  Poetry,  full  of  rare  information  on  the 
achievements  of  the  Fianna  Eirionn  ;  copied  from  a  vellum  manuscript 
of  the  Fourteentli  Century,  now  deposited  in  the  Bodleian  Library, 
Oxford.     To  be  edited  by  John  Windele,  Esq. 

IV.  Cac  l^hlfJO  Cn^5^  ;  «r,  an  Account  of  the  Battle  fought  at  Ventry 
in  the  county  of  Kerry,  in  the  Third  Century  of  the  Christian  era,  be- 
tween Daire  Donn,  Monarch  of  the  World,  and  the  Fenians.  To  be 
edited  by  the  Rev.  James  Goodman,  A.B. 

This  Battle  lasted  for  3C6  daj-s;  the  copy  at  the  disposal  of  the  Society  is  the  earliest 
known  to  exist,  having  been  copied  from  a  vellum  manuicript  of  the  fourteenth  century, 
now  deposited  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  Oxford. 


12 

V.  C»\c  CbpocA ;  or,  the  Battle  of  Castleknock,  ia  the  county  of 
Dublin,  fought  A.D.  273,  between  Conn  Ceadchatach,  i.e..  Conn  of  the 
Hundred  Battles,  and  the  Clanna  Morna  ;  by  his  victory  in  which,  Conn 
obtained  the  Sovereignty  of  three  Provinces  in  Ireland,  viz.  Connaught, 
Ulster,  and  Leinster.     To  be  edited  by  Thaddeus  O'Mahony,  Esq. 

This  tract  is  copied  from  a  manuscript  made  by  John  Murphy  of  Carrignarar,  in  the 
county  of  Cork,  A.D.  1725,  and  from  the  fame  of  the  writer  as  a  cahgraphist,  no  doubt 
is  entertained  of  the  accuracy  of  the  text. 

VI.  Civ]!)  1)0  CbuAjlstje;  or,  the  Great  Cattle  Spoil  of  Cuailgne 
(Cooley),  in  the  county  of  Louth,  being  a  History  of  the  Seven  Years 
War  between  Ulster  and  Connaught ;  in  the  reign  of  Meadhbh,  Queen 
of  Connaught,  and  Conchobhar  Mac  Nessa,  king  of  Ulster,  on  account 
of  the  famous  bull  called  Donn  Chuailgne ;  and  which  terminated,  ac- 
cording to  Roderic  O'Flalierty,  the  Irish  Chronologist,  one  year  before 
the  Christian  era.     Now  editing  by  William  Hackett,  Esq. 

This  very  ancient  and  curious  tract  comprises  two  hundred  closely- ivritten  folios,  and 
contains  many  interesting  details  of  Mythological  Incidents,  Pillar  Stones,  Ogham  In- 
scriptions, Tulachs,  War  Chariots,  Leanan  Sighes,  Mice  and  Cat  Incantations.  Together 
with  an  account  of  the  Mysterious  War  Weapon  used  by  Cuchullainn,  called  Gath  Bolg  ,- 
also  Some  Account  of  the  early  Christian  iMissionaries  in  Ireland,  and  the  pririleges 
eiyoyed  by  the  chief  bard. 

The  copy  at  the  disposal  of  the  Society  is  acknowledged  by  competent  judges  to  be  the 
most  accurate  paper  copy  extant ;  and  belongs  to  the  Rev.  Patrick  Lamb,  P.P.,  Newtown- 
hamilton,  who  has  very  kindly  made  it  available  to  the  Society ;  and  it  is  now  far  advanced 
in  preparation. 

VII.  A  TRACT  ON  THE  TOPOGRAPHY  OF  IRELAND  ;  from 
the  Psalter  Mac  Richard  Butler,  otherwise  called  "  Saltar  na  Rann," 
(which  appears  from  the  liand writing  to  be  much  more  ancient  than  any 
other  part  of  the  volume),  containing  the  Derivation  of  the  Names, 
Local  Traditions,  and  other  remarkable  circumstances,  of  the  Hills, 
Mountains,  Rivers,  Caves,  Cams,  Rocks,  Tulachs,  and  Monumental 
remains  of  Pagan  Ireland,  but  more  especially  those  connected  with 
the  deeds  of  Fionn  Mac  Chuuihaill.  To  be  edited  by  Professor 
Connellan. 

Psalter  Mac  Richard  Butler  was  originally  written  for  Edmond,  son  of  Richard  Butler 
commonly  called  "Mac  Richard,"  but  on  his  defeat  by  Thomas,  the  eighth  Earl  of  Des- 
mond, (who  was  beheaded  in  1467),  near  the  banks  of  the  River  Suir,  where  greatnumbers 
of  the  Butlers'  followers  were  drowned  and  slain,  the  book  fell  into  the  hands  of  this 
Thomas,  and  was  afterwards  the  property  of  Sir  George  Carew,  Elizabeths  President  of 
Munster;  but  finally  came  into  the  hands  of  Archbishop  Laud,  who  bequeathed  it  to  the 
Bodleian  Library,  Oxford,  where  it  is  now  preserved,  and  the  Society  have  permission  to 
make  transcripts  of  its  contents. 

VIII.  A  TRACT  ON  THE  GREAT  ACTIONS  OF  FINN  MAC 
CHUMIIAILL,  copied  from  the  Psalter  of  Mac  Richard  Butler.  To 
be  edited  by  the  Rev.  Ulick  J.  Bourke,  of  St.  Patrick's  College, 
Maynooth. 


SOCIETIES    IN    CONNECTION   AND   PUBLICATIONS   RECEIVED. 


1.  The   Architectobal  and  Arch^ological  Society  of  Buck- 

ingham, its  Records,  Nos.  1  and  2.,  Rev.  A.  Newdigate, 
Aylesbury,  Honorary  Secretary. 

2.  The  Architectdb.4L  Society  of  the  Archdeaconry  of  Nor- 

thampton AND  THE  Counties  of  York  and  Lincoln  ;  and  the 
Architectural,  and  Arcu.5:ological  Society  of  Bedford- 
shire and  St.  Albans,  its  Reports  and  Papers  from  1848  to  1851. 
Rev.  H.  D.  Nicholson,  M.A.  St.  Albans,  Herts,  Honorary 
Secretary. 

3.  The  Cambrian  Institute,  its  Journal,  Nos.   1,  2,  8,  4,  5,  and  6. 

R.  Mabon,  Esq.     High-street,  Tenby,  Treasurer. 

4.  The  Cambridge  Antiquarian  Society,  ita  Publications,  Nos.  1, 

2,  &3;  Reports,  Nos.  1,  2,  3,  &  4.  Chas.  C.  Babington,  Esq. 
M.A.,  Fellow  of  St.  John's  College,  Cambridge,  Treasurer. 

5.  The  Historic  Society  of  Lancashire  and  Cheshire,  its  Pro- 

ceedings and  Papers,  Vols.  V.  "VI.  VIL,  Rev.  A.  Hume,  D.C.L., 
LL.D.,  F.S.A.,  St.  George's,  Liverpool,  Honorary  Secretary. 

6.  The  Kilkenny  and   South-East  of  Ireland  Arch^ological 

Society,  its  Transactions  for  1852,  1853,  1854,  and  1855.  Rev. 
James  Graves,  A.n.,  and  John  George  Augustus  Prim,  Esq., 
Kilkenny,  Honorary  Secretaries. 

7.  The  Suffolk  Institute  OF  Arch^eology,  its  Proceerftnjrs,  Vol.  2. 

Nos.  1  and  2,  1854,  1855.  Samuel  Tymms,  Esq.  F.S.A.  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  Honorary  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

8.  The  Society  of  Antiquaries  of  London,  its  Proceedings,  Vols. 

1  and  2,  from  April,  1843,  to  April,  1853.  John  Y.  Akerman, 
Esq.  F.S.A.   Somerset  House,  London,  Secretary. 

9.  The    Society  of   Antiquaries   of   Newcastle-upon-Tvne,  its 

Transactions,  4  quarto  vols.  John  Adamson,  Esq,  The  Castle, 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne,  Secretary. 

10.  The  Society  of  Antiquaries  of  Scotland,  its  Proceedings,  Vol. 
],  Parts  1,  2,  and  3.  John  Stuart,  Esq.  General  Registry  House, 
Edinburgh,  Secretary. 

11.  The  Surrey  Arch.í:ological  Society.  George  Bish  Webb, 
Esq.  6,  Southampton-street.  Covent  Garden,  London,  Honorary 
Secretary. 


^ 


■^       2 


o 

o 

<© 

o 

o 

•^ 

o 

x> 

CI 

■t 

» 

t- 

t- 

£ 

•-0 

1 
2 

c 

•s 

o 

o 

o 

o 
c 

o 

: 

Oi 

< 

-a  -^ 

.  tj    - 
o   a 


Q    =3 


?  •« 


'-^  c  '&  r*  -I 


o  pa 


I     I 


(N   fit   <5  CQ 

I  I  I  I 


S     : 


o  ^ 

<  s 


O  H 


q-? 


INTRODUCTION. 


ISII  manuscripts  containing  pieces 
of  liistory  mixed  up  with  the  fabul- 
ous are  numerous,  and  most  of 
tliem  highly  instructive  as  well  as 
entertaining.  Some  there  may  be 
who  consider  those  tales  unworthy 
^^  the  notice  of  any  one,  much  less  of 
the  historian,  merely  because  fable 
may  be  the  prominent  portion  of  the 
subject;  but  this  opinion,  which  has 
been  growing  for  years,  is  a  fallacious  one.  The  early  history 
of  every  country  is  more  or  less  interwoven  with  fable,  yet  much 
of  genuine  history  is,  nevertheless,  to  be  gleaned  from  it.  If 
we  revert  to  the  early  histories  of  Greece,  Eome,  Hindostan, 
Ceylon,  Egypt,  Arabia,  Scotland,  Britain,  Man,  and,  in  fact, 
those  of  any  other  country,  we  shall  find  that  the  same  error 
is  clearly  visible  in  their  pages,  yet  none  of  these  nations  have 
rejected  those  partly  fabulous  documents  that  form  the  mate- 
rials of  their  history,  but  wisely  analysing  their  contents,  have 
separated  the  honey  from  the  poison,  and  used  it,  as  judgment 
warranted,  in  the  compilation  of  their  annals.  If  these 
matters  have  happened — and  they  have — what  reason  can  any 


16 

person  adduce  for  the  tot-il  rejection  of  our  Irish  romancps, 
why  reject  historical  truths  because  they  have  been  found  con- 
nected with  fable,  any  more  than  other  historians  have  done  ? 
Apart  from  this  consideration,  our  written  romances  are  of 
incalculable  value,  because  they  throw  a  clear  light  upon  the 
manners,  customs,  social  intercourse,  and  the  political  as  well 
as  the  religious  bias  of  a  people  whose  history  is  yet  but 
imperfectly  known,  but  who  trod  the  same  green  sod  that  we 
do,  spoke  the  same  language,  and  who,  whether  Pagan  or 
Christian,  were  those  from  whom  we  derived  our  existence,  in 
a  natural  course.  This  in  itself  ought  to  be  an  inducement 
of  sufficient  interest  to  stimulate  us  to  work  in  the  wide  tic-Id 
of  Irish  romance,  for  the  sake  of  learning,  and  viewing  as  far 
as  we  can,  the  manners  of  those  who  have  been  here  before  us, 
as  well  as  recording  for  imitation  or  for  disnse  the  various 
practices  prevalent  amongst  them. 

Our  Irish  romances  are,  by  no  means,  so  trifling  and 
meaningless  as  they  are  often  represented.  They  contain  a 
vast  amount  of  local  history,  and  afford  us  a  dim  glimpse  of  the 
exploded  doctrines  of  our  pagan  ancestors,  all  of  which  have 
been  almost  forgotten  through  long  disuse.  They  consist  of 
three  classes,  namely,  the  historical,  such  as  tlie  Tain  Bo 
Chuailgne  (Cattle  Spoil  of  Cooley),  Cath  Chnoca  (Battle  of 
Castleknock),  Cath  Chluana  Tairbh  (Battle  of  Clontarf), 
Agallamh  ua  Seanoiridhe  (Dialogue  of  the  Sages),  &c. ;  the 
Mytholological,  such  as  Eachtra  Mhuireadhaigh,  .Mac  an  Diau 
Deirg  (the  Adventures  of  Muireadhach  the  Son  of  Dian  the 
Red),  Laoi  Thir  na  n-Og  (the  Lay  of  the  Land  of  Youth), 
Suirghe  Fhinn  a  g-Crioch  Lochlann  (the  Courtship  of  Finn  in 
the  Land  of  Logblin),  &c. ;  and  lastly,  the  purely  fictitious, 
such  as  the  Cearnach  Cael  Riabhach  (the  Grey  Slender  Kern), 
Mac  na  Michorahairle  (The  Ill-advised  Son),  &c. 

Our  mythology,  at  least  so  much  of  it  as  we  can  glean 
from  our  MSS.,  and  learn  from  the  slill  prevalent  habits  and 


17 

customs  of  our  people,  is  beautiful  in  the  extreme,  and  cha- 
racteristic of  a  people  of  considerable  refinement  and  civili- 
zation. It  is  worthy  of  remark  that,  so  far  as  we  are  able 
to  learn,  the  pagan  Irish  did  not  bend  the  knee  to  grotesque 
figures,  but  chose  for  their  deities  such  imaginary  beings  as 
Beal,  or  the  sun,  that  is  the  great  being ;  Dagdae,  probably 
the  Tuatha  Dedanan  term  for  the  same  deity,  which  means 
the  good  god  ;  Crom  the  deity  of  irrigation  and  agriculture ;  C/VlTW^ 
Mananan  Mac  Lir,  the  potent  deity  of  the  ocean;  Aino, 
the  moon,  goddess  of  the  water,  as  well  as  of  wisdom;  Aedh 
Oirfidh  our  Irish  Orpheus,  usually  called  Mac  Manair,  after 
his  father's  name  ;  Iphinn,  the  benevolent,  who  presented  our 
Oirfidh,  or  Orpheus,  with  his  extraordinary  golden  lyre  or  harp; 
the  stars,  and  wind,  as  well  as  the  elements;  but  it  must  be 
remarked  that  nowhere  can  we  discern  a  single  trace  of  any 
warranty  to  support  the  opinion  that  they  adored  any  other 
object  than  the  sun,  and  afterwards  the  moon,  though  they  seem 
to  have  attached  considerable  importance  to  each  of  those 
other  divinities.  But  the  prettiest  relic  that  pagam'sm  has 
left  us  is  the  faery  mythology  which  peoples  all  our  hills, 
mountains,  forts,  causeways,  &c.,  and  gives  another  race  of 
creatures  resembling  human  beings  to  our  lakes,  rivers,  &c. 
These  invisible  beings  are  generally  believed  to  take  much 
interest  either  for  good  or  evil  in  human  atfairs,  and  the  belief 
in  their  power  for  evil  formerly  afforded  lucrative  employment 
to  a  class  of  persons  who  pretended  to  possess  a  knowledge  '  •>] 

of  charms  and  other  mystical  remedies  capable  of  counter- 
acting their  malicious  plans,  and  who  found  it  their  interest 
to  keep  aUve  the  deception.  ! 

There  was  another  class  of  beings,  unlike  fairies,  of  diminu- 
tive stature,  who  also  were  beheved  to  be  much  interested  in 
human  affairs;  of  these  the  most  popular  was  the  Luchrymaa 
(recte,  Lelth-j)lirogan,  i.e.,  the  artisan  of  the  shoe  or  brogue), 
because  he  was  always  found,  when  discovered  by  the  human 


18 

eye,  busily  engaged  in  mending  or  making  a  shoe.  This  tiny 
sprite  always  proved  very  cunning,  when  surprised  by  the 
human  eye  resting  upon  him,  and  used  many  wily  inventions 
to  induce  the  beholder  to  look  one  way  or  the  other,  when  he 
became  instantly  invisible,  and  was  never  seen  after.  If  he 
did  not  thus  succeed  in  baffling  the  mortal,  the  latter  had  him 
completely  in  his  power,  and  had  nothing  more  to  do  than  to 
capture  the  wealthy  sprite ;  but  he  could  be  bound  by  no  man- 
acles except  a  plough-chain,  or  a  clue  of  woollen  thread 
manufactured  by  the  industrious  housewife.  The  Luchryman 
possessed  a  twofold  source  of  wealth,  one,  a  treasure  hidden  in 
the  earth,  which  he  bestowed  on  the  husbandman ;  and  the 
other,  sparan  na  sgillinge,  an  inexhaustible  purse,  which  always 
contained  a  piece  of  money ;  this  purse  he  gave  to  the  merchant 
or  dealer  only.  The  Luchryman  was  the  type  of  industry  :  if 
the  beholder,  or  he  who  made  industry  his  principal  object, 
turned  his  eye  to  the  right  or  left  from  the  motive  of  his 
pursuit,  then,  like  the  Luchryman,  he  was  certain  to  be  disap- 
pointed, and  lose  his  golden  prize.  The  nature  too  of  the 
bonds,  by  which  alone  the  sprite  could  be  possibly  bound,  is 
emblematical  of  industry.  So  firm  was  the  belief  in  the 
existence  of  the  Luchryman,  that  if  a  farmer  was  known  to 
better  his  condition  by  industry  and  economy,  or  a  trader  to 
grow  wealthy  by  honest  dealing,  they  were  said  to  have  captured 
a  Luchryman,  and  robbed  liim  of  liis  treasure  or  inexhaustible 
purse.  The  Gean-canach  (love-talker)  was  another  diminutive 
being  of  the  same  tribe,  but,  unlike  the  Luchryman,  he  per- 
sonated love  and  idleness,  and  always  appeared  with  a  dudeen 
in  his  jaw  in  lonesome  valleys,  and  it  was  his  custom  to  make 
love  to  shepherdesses  and  milkmaids  :  it  was  considered  very 
unlucky  to  meet  him  ;  and  whoever  was  known  to  have  ruined 
his  fortune  by  devotion  to  the  fair  sex  was  said  to  have  met 
a  Geancanach.  The  dudeen,  or  ancient  L-ish  tobacco  pipe 
found  in  our  raths,  &c.,  is  still  popularly  called  a  Geancanach's 


19 

pipe.  The  Clobhar-ceann  was  another  being  of  the  same  class  : 
he  was  a  jolly,  red-faced,  drunken  little  fellow,  and  was  ever 
found  in  the  cellars  of  the  debauchee,  Eacchus-like,  astride 
of  the  wine  butt  with  brimful  tankard  in  hand,  drinking  and 
singing  away  merrily.  Any  wine-cellar  known  to  be  haunted 
by  this  sprite,  was  doomed  to  bring  its  owner  to  speedy  ruin. 
This  portion  of  our  native  mythology  was  truly  emblematical 
and  instructive,  but  nevertheless  it  was  not  the  most  classical  and 
beautiful  one.  It  is  to  be  much  regretted  that  the  space  to 
which  an  introduction  should  necessarily  be  confined,  will  not 
allow  a  further  elucidation  of  our  faery  mythology — a  mythology 
rich  in  imagery,  pleasing  and  refined.  We  did  not  confine  our 
muses  to  a  single  Parnassus,  for  every  mountain,  rath,  and 
hill  of  note,  had  its  Leannanúghe,  or  native  muse,  who  was 
never  niggardly  of  her  favors  to  the  local  bard.  We  had  our 
friendly  Bean-sighes,  who  were  always  deeply  affected  by  the 
approaching  demise  of  a  member  of  the  family  to  which  each 
had  been  so  devotedly  attached,  and  who,  with  plaintive  cries, 
warned  the  family  of  the  bereavement.  We  had  also  our 
"  Siubhan  Dubh  na  Boinne"  (Black  Joanna  of  the  Boyue), 
who,  on  Hallow-eve,  would  favor  the  house,  that  was  usually 
kept  tidy  and  clean,  with  a  visit  in  the  shape  of  a  large  black 
fowl  of  strange  appearance,  and  by  her  presence  bestow  good 
luck  upon  the  family  during  the  ensuing  year.  Even  Mananan 
himself,  who  never  permitted  a  noble  or  brave  Irishman  to  go 
into  a  foreign  country  on  a  dangerous  mission  without  accom- 
panying him,  assisting  him  eff'ectually,  and  conducting  him 
home  in  safety,  did  not  abandon  Ireland  until  the  time  of 
Saint  Columbkille,  who  gave  him  no  hope  of  regaining  heaven, 
which  bad  tidings  so  deeply  affected  him,  that  he,  with  his 
followers,  bade  a  final  farewell  to  our  country,  and  retired  to 
his  native  Armenia,  upon  which  occasion,  Mac  Moineaiita  of 
Scraby-hill  in  the  county  of  Cavan,  a  less  powerful  chief  of  the 
invisible  creation,  assumed  command  in  his  place,  to  the  lasting 


1. 


grief  of  all  the  people  with  whom  Maiianaii  had  been  a  general 
favorite. 

That  our  faery  traditions  are  relics  of  pngauism  there  can  be 
but  little  doubt,  since  the  customs  observed  on  the  eves  of 
certain  festivals,  and  on  other  occasions,  afford  ample  proofs 
that  they  were  not  the  emanations  of  any  form  of  Christianity 
that  now  exists,  or  ever  had  an  existence  :  the  popular  practices 
in  connexion  with  them   enable  us  to  analyse  them  with  ease. 
But  there  are  other  portions  of  the  old  mytliology  of  the  Irish 
dimly  hinted  at  in  our  manuscripts,  which  ceased  to  have  any 
influence  on  the  people  after  the  introduction  of  Christianity, 
and  which  cannot  now  be  easily  understood  or  explained  with- 
out extraneous  aid ;  this  is  the  part  that  relates  to  the  gods 
adored  by  our  pagan  ancestors,  and  the  rites  used  in  connexion 
with  their  worship.     The  document  now  for  the  first  time 
presented  to  the  public  in  an  English  dress  has  reference  to 
these.     It  also  reflects  much  light  on  the  topography  of  a  very 
classical  and  interesting  locality  ;  and  it  explains  many  quot- 
ations found  in  the  works  of  our  bards,  which  would  otherwise 
remain  as  obscurities  impeding  the  reader  and  student  in  their 
progress.     The    explanation  of  such    obscure   passages   was 
unquestionably  the  object  of  the  writer,  whosoever  he  may 
have  been. 

rionn  the  son  of  Cumhall  seems  to  have  been  the  great 
actor  in  all  the  scenes  represented  in  the  text  under  considera- 
tion, and  therefore  must  have  been  a  very  important  personage 
in  more  respects  than  one,  in  the  olden  time.  In  the 
Agallamh  na  Seanoiridhe  (Dialogue  of  the  Sages),  Tionn, 
among  other  extraordinary  qualifications  which  he  possessed, 
is  said  to  have  been  one  of  the  most  eminent  Druids  that  ever 
flourished  in  Ireland.  Tionn  the  Druid  is  generally  supposed 
to  have  been  the  same  personage  as  Fionn  the  son  of  Cumhall, 
the  celebrated  leader  of  the  Fenian  forces.  But  there  is 
strong  reason  to  doubt  this,  since,  according  to  Mac  Firbis  and 


21 

others,  tliere  were  many  distinguished  persons  named  rionu 
both  before  and  after  the  time  of  the  son  of  Cumhall.  It  is 
most  probable  that  Fionn  the  son  of  Cumhall  has  been  invest- 
ed with  many  of  the  achievements  of  his  numerous  name- 
sakes, just  as  the  exploits  of  many  a  local  Hercules  were 
placed  to  the  credit  of  the  great  son  of  Alcmene. — This  is  the 
only  rational  way  of  reconciling  the  Protean  variety  of  the 
characters  in  which  Fionn  appears,  with  a  belief  in  his  existence 
as  an  historical  personage ;  and  it  is  also  some  explanation  of 
what  must  appear  rather  marvellous  anachronisms  in  the  ac- 
counts of  his  life  and  exploits  ;  unless,  indeed,  we  are  to  sup- 
pose that  the  number  of  years  allotted  to  him  in  this  world 
slightly  exceeded  the  span  of  more  ordinary  mortals,  according 
to  the  authority  of  an  ancient  poem  quoted  in  Vol.  I.  Trans.  o  ;  / 
Ossianic  Society,  page  36,    which  states  that    he  lived  three  J 

hundred  and  ten  years,  all  but  one  month.  The  general  im- 
pression is,  that  the  Fenians  were  so  called  after  Fionn  their 
leader,  but  this  is  certainly  erroneous  inasmuch  as  the  Fenians 
of  Britain,  Lochlin,  &c.,  could  not  have  been  so  named  from 
Fionn  the  son  of  Cumhall,  since  they  had  little  or  no  connex- 
ion in  a  military  sense  with  him,  and  since  the  Fenian  order 
had  been  long  established  in  Iceland  before  Fionn  the  son  of 
Cumhall  was  born.  Hence  the  Fenians  were  not  so  called  after 
the  name  of  this  Fionn,  their  most  renowned  commander. 

There  are  learned  antiquarians  who  believe  that  the  name  ^ 

"  Fenian"  was  common  to  the  Irish  as  a  people,  and  that  it 
was  derived  from  that  of  Fenius  Farsadh  the  first  inventor  of 
letters,  who  was  the  great  ancestor  of  the  aboriginal  Irish. 
Dr.  Charles  O'Conor,  in  his  lienim  Hibernicarum  Scriptores 
Veteres,  ^'c.  Vol.  I.  PL  xxxiv.,  treating  on  the  subject  says  : — 
"  Hibernos  nempe  veteres  Fenios  dictos  fuisse,  a  quodam 
Fefiio  Farsaidk,  qui  primus  literarum  Oghmiarura  inventor 
habetur,"  i.e.,  "  that  the  old  Irish  were  called  Fenians  after 
one  Fenius  Farsaidh,  who  is  supposed  to  have  been  the  first 


22 

inventor  of  the  Ogham  cliaracters."     Dr.  John  O'Brien,  Ro- 
man Catholic  Bishop  of  Cloyne,  adheres  to  a  similar  opinion 
with  Dr.  O'Conor.     lie  states  in  his  Irish  Dictionary,   that 
the  name  of  the  barony  of  Eermoy  was  Fir  Mnighe  Feine, 
which  he  translates  "  Viri  campi  Pheoniorum/'  i.e.  the  Men  of 
the  Plain  of  the  Phcenicians."  Mac  Eirbis,  our  great  Irish 
Ollamh,  was  of  the  opinion   that  some  of  the  persons  named 
Pionn,  who  flourished  in  Ireland,  were  of  the  Pirbolg  race   of 
Tara  and  OfTaly  :  these  he  calls  Attacots,  and  says  that  this 
was  one  of  the  three  tribes  from  which  the  Kings  of  the  Pen- 
ian  forces  were  usually  elected.     He   further  states  that  the 
Firbolg  tribes  of  Leinster  and  Connacht  chiefly  constituted  the 
staff"  of  the  Irish  Eenian  array.     This  is  very  significant  of  the 
descent  of  this  mysterious  race  of  people,    and  goes  far  to 
prove  that  the  Firbolgs  were  Phoenicians,  or  a  branch  of  that 
ancient  and  enterprising  people.    If  we  can  attach  any  amount 
of  credit  to  the  learned  author  of  the  Crymogrea,  or  Antiquities 
of  Iceland,  who  states,  on  the  authority  of  Procopius  (page  6,), 
a  native  of  Palestine,  that  the  Chaldeans,  who  had  been  ex- 
pelled by  Josue,  migrated  to  the  coasts  of  Africa,  and  thence 
to  the  Chersonesus  Cimbrica  or  Jutland,  and  the  adjacent  is- 
lands, we  can   plainly  see  they  were  the  Lochlanachs  of  our 
ancient  history — the   first  people,  who,  under  the  names  of 
Pomorians  and  Firbolgs,  made  settlements  on  our  coasts,  and 
subsequently  held  the  country  under  taxation  for  many  cen- 
turies.    It  is  evident  that  the  Pomorians  and  Firbolgs  were 
diff'erent  divisions   of   the   same   family  ;  Partholanus  was  a 
Foraorian   leader,    according   to   the   old    poem,    boginning 
Aclhamh  Athair  8,0.,  (Adam  Father,  &c.)  which  says  that : — 

"Ho^Ab    bÓjb    A|t   At)   TT):\i5, 

PAjicolivi)  \x  'Fon)A]ti\ic." 

He  engaged  them  on  the  plain, 
Tarthohinus  and  his  Fomorians. 


23 

These  Fomorians  were  Locblanachs,  or  hordes  from  the  Cher- 
soiiesus  Cimbrica,  who  had  been  conquered  by  Lughaidh  the 
Long-handed  in  the  Battle  of  Moytuir : 

"  Loclu)r)!5U]C  CO  lai&i|t,  "•  ^    V  .'.'iVJ, 

2l||t  ^eAftAjb  6]|tTor)r)  uile ;       -^  ^*^-    '^^•^ 

Ke  CU3A6  cAé  2t)ui5]  Tuiiii"    "^ '^^    '^''^^^  -"''-^'    ,^.'  ^ 

Srjiath  na  h-Eamhna. 
The  Lochlanachs  held  potent  sway 
Over   all  the   mea   of  Ireland, 
Until  Lughadh    Lamhfhada  came 
And  fought  the  Battle  of  Moytuir. 

From  the  previous  quotation  it  is  quite  clear  that  Parthola- 
nus  and  his  people  were  Fomorians,  who,  if  we  adopt  the  ..■*;.^ 

accounts  given  in  the  Crymogaea  from  the  accurate  Procopius, 
were  a  branch  of  the  tribes  that  originally  held  possession  of 
the  Promised  Land,  and  who  spread  themselves,  from  the 
African  coasts  to  the  islands  of  the  Chersonesus  Cimbrica.  It 
remains  now  to  show  that  the  Fomorians  themselves  were  the 
people  whom  our  writers  called  Lochlanachs,  probably  on 
account  of  the  great  number  of  estuaries  and  sea-lakes  with 
which  their  country  was  indented,  or  because  they  were,  from 
the  time  of  their  first  settlement  va.  their  northern  home, 
renowned  mariners  and  pirates.  In  a  curious  historical  piece, 
styled  "  Oidhe  Chlainne  Tuirinn"  (The  Fate  of  the  Sons  of 
Tuirinn)  which  tells  of  the  slavery,  under  which  Nuadh  Airgi- 
odlarah  (Xuadh  of  the  silver  hand)  and  the  Tuatha  Dedauans 
had  been  enthralled  by  the  Fomorians,  we  read : — 

"  jl*  at^Ia  bo  \y\  ATj  |tÍ5  \\x)  ocuf  cyoyc^x)  v!)ó\\-t\\o\\)  aj 
p|t)t;e  "pon^oitAcb  A]]t  "CbuACA   be  <t)ATjAr)tj  ^te  \\x)X)  Atj  jtjj 

flU,  OCUf  C\OX  A|*  A1)  lo|*Al6,    OCtt]*  Vi\X)-rjS:    b'óft  Afl  AT)    ffto)!) 

o  "Cbu-ACAjb  be  «Dai^auu  5ACA  bliAÓAitj  ajji  tt)uIIac  U|f*t)]cc 
o   TA)QMK)\\ts\cc   yyo^yx,  ocu|-  bo  beAT)bA]f   y\\)  att;ac   5aca 


24 

bl|AÓAii);  ociif  Ai;  poAfi  t)ac  (b)-cAbftA6  y]\)  aiímc  ai» 
c-f|ió]T;  A  biiAH)*?  ó  r)A  ceAvo  be.  Lív  &'ív|i  conjOfiAÓ  o]]i- 
eACCAr  le  b-^^^-TM5  ^If^^^l»^  ^lt^  cyocatj  BbAUnt,  ^|t]r 
A  itívi6ceA|i  U||*T)eAC  2t)í6e  ai)105,  ocuf*  d]  cjai)  bo  bixbAji 
AT)i;  AT)  cAr)  bo  coucAbA|i  b]A|tn7A  5ACA  beAsfluAS  ]|*  ^r) 
n)<\^  Ar)0]]t  5ACA  T)-bí|teAC  bA  i)-iot)r)|*A]Óe,  ocuy  Aei)  rbAC- 
Aorb  A  c-cofAC  T)A  b|ioi;5-bui6ue,  ocuy  ^a  co|*ttju|1  |xe  ]ni]t)e 
5|t6it)e  beAlfXAÓ  a  ív]56e  ocui*  a  éAbAji);  ocuf  t^joti  ^réAbAÓ 
A  p)ú]y  b'^eACAjt)  le  tíieAb  a  cAjcoeArijA;  ocuj*  ifé  bo  b] 
Ai)b  .1.  1,ú5a6  LíxrbpAbA  ló))i^bé]tT)i:)eAC,  ocuy  At)  TT)A|icfXA6 
y']6e  o  t']]i  'CA|ii)5AT|ie  .1.  a  cottjÓaIcaóa  yé]})  .i.  cIaiji)  2t)bA- 

t)AUt)ÍVIt). Jr  S^IT^I^  ^O    bAbA]t    At)p,    Al)    CAT)  Ab  COIJCAbAJl 

At)    bjteAtT)  TT)ObA]tCA  TT)]]* 51ATT)AC    b'^     TMOtJtJfAlÓe     .1.     t)AO) 

t)Aet)rbAi]t  be  ti)AO]tAib  t)A  b •'porT)A|iAcb  bo  cosbixjl  cíof  a 
ocuf  cívt)A  b-^eA|t  T)-é>i|iioT)b. — Ocur  tto  e^ise  tu5Ai6,  A5 
jiíxó  ]*it),  ocit]*  bo  i)occ  At)  peATt5-CA]icAC,  ocuj-bo  lé]5  yúé^ 
é,  ocu|*  bo  5Ab  A5A  i)-oi|ileAC  ocu|*  A5A  i)-accutda6,  t)0  ^u]í 
lijAjib  occ  T)Aet)TT)Anx  bíob ;  ociif  bo  I015  V^  T)Aei)rt)A|t  y'^ 
cí\6at  ocuy  yí\  cuiTT)i|tc  ]i]5  6íiiiot)1)  bjob.  'lDo  Ti)iii]tfii)t) 
|-^b/  bAjv  l,Ú5Ai6,  'acc  5u|iAb  fe<\ii|i  lion)  f|b  bo  80I  le 
^•jeAlAjb  bo  curr)  i)A  i)-A,llrtniítAC  'i)Aib  ttjo  ceACCA  feji)  Ajt 
casIa  50  b-|:ui5bi|-  eAj-ODOni.'     )y  at)  ri')  ^o  jluArAbAn  ai) 

T)Aei)TT)A|l    fit)  ltOTT)pA  50  CUA1)  6AfÁ  í)A|tA,    OCUy    bO  CUAJ- 

bAji  1T)A  loi)3Aib,  ocuy  bo  5luA|*AbA]i  jioropA  t)0  50  ]iíM}3AbA]i 
toclAi)T)  Ti)A|t  A  itAbAbATt  pit)i)e  pcrDOftAc ;  ocuf  b'^DtJi-eAbAji 
A  f5éAlA  éójb  o  cú|*  30  beiite. — í)o  |iívi6  BaIaix,  ^At) 
b-]:eAbAbAi]t|-i  cja  b-í^  r"^'  ^  '  ^^  freAbAjt/  Aji  Ce]tl]or)n, 
'  rt)AC  11)311)6  6iiic-fe  ocuf  OAtTj-fA  yuti,  ocuy  aca  t  b  |:ív||-- 
bit)e  6úii)i)e  o  bo  ciocpAÓ  ]  T)-é>i|tii)i)  t)AC  b]A6  t)eAitc 
A3Ait)i)e  1  t)-é]int)i)  o  y]\)  ATDAC  30  bnívt/  " 

This  King  was  thus  situated  ;  the  race  of  the  Fomorians  imposed 
a  very  heavy  tribute  upon  the  Tuatha  Dedanans  in  his  reign.  A 
tax  was  levied  upon  the  growing  crops,  and  an  vnga  (ingot)  of  gohl 
was  exacted  upon  the  nose  of  every  one  of  the  Tuatha  Dedanans 
each  year  from  Uisneach  to  Tara  eastward  :  this  tax  was  to  be  paid 


25 

every  year,  and  whosoever  was  found  unable  to  pay  it,  his  nose  was 
severed  from  his  face.  On  a  certain  day  the  chief  king  of  Ireland 
held  a  meeting  on  the  hill  of  Balar,  which  is  now  called  Uisneach  of 
Meath  ;  [they  had  not  been  long  assembled  there,  when  they  dis- 
covered a  well  appointed  host  of  people  approaching  them  along  the 
plain  from  the  east,  and  a  young  man  whose  countenance  shone  like 
the  rising  sun,  marched  at  the  head  of  this  dense  crowd  of  men.  It 
■was  impossible  to  look  him  in  the  face,  he  was  so  lovely,  and  he  was 
no  other  than  Lughadh  Lamhfhada,  (long-handed)  the  sword  exer- 
ciser, together  with  the  fairy  (enchanted)  cavalcade  consisting  of  the 
sons  of  Mananan,  his  foster-brothers  from  Canaan. — They  had 
remained  but  a  short  time  there,  when  they  saw  an  ugly,  ill-shaped 
party  of  people,  namely,  nine  times  nine  men,  who  were  the  stewards 
of  the  Fomorians,  coming  to  receive  the  rents  and  taxes  of  the  peo. 
pie  of  Ireland. — And  with  these  words  Lughadh  arose,  and,  having 
unsheathed  the  Feargcarthach,  (the  sword  of  Mananan)  attacked 
them  ;  and  having  cut  and  mangled  them,  killed  eight  times  nine 
men  of  their  number,  but  suffered  the  remaining  nine  to  put  them- 
selves under  the  protection  of  the  king  of  Ireland.  "  I  would  kill 
you,"  said  Lughadh,  "were  it  not  that  I  prefer  that  you  should  carry 
the  tidings  to  the  foreigners,  rather  than  send  my  own  messengers, 
lest  they  might  be  dishonoured." — The  nine  men  thereupon  marched 
forward  to  Eas  Dai-a  where  they  embarked  and  sailed  to  the  race  of 
the  Fomorians  in  Lochlan,  to  whom  they  related  the  whole  matter 
from  the  beginning  to  the  end — "can  any  person  among  you  tell  who 
that  individual  is?"  enquired  Balar.  "I  can  tell,"  replied  Ceithlinn, 
"  he  is  a  son  of  your  and  my  daughter ;  and  it  has  been  foretold  to 
us,  that  whenever  he  shall  come  into  Ireland,  we  shall  possess  no 
more  power  in  Ireland  from  that  time  out  for  ever." 

From  the  above  extract  we  can  collect  that  the  rorrorians 
were  the  Lochlanachs  of  our  historians,  that  Lughadh  the 
Long-handed  was  a  Fomorian  by  maternal  descent,  and  had 
been  bred  in  the  east,  which  circumstances  go  far  to  confirm 
the  opinion  of  Procopius,  namely,  that  the  ancient  iniiabitants 
of  the  African  coasts  who,  according  to  the  author  of  the 
Crymogaja  and  other  writers,  subsequently  settled  on  the 
Chersonesus  Cimbrica  and  the  adjacent  islands,  were  a  division 


26 

of  the  Canaanites  who  had  been  expelled  from  their  country 
by  the  Israelites,  under  the  command  of  Joshua.  If  then, 
the  Foraorians  were  Lochlanachs,  and  tlie  Lochlanachs  Ca- 
naanites, Partholanus,  who  is  shown  to  have  been  a  Fomo- 
rian,  must  have  sprung  from  the  same  eastern  origin,  as  well 
as  Neimidh  (Nemedius)  the  ancestor  of  the  Firbolgs,  who 
descended  from  a  brother  of  Partholanus,  according  to  our 
historians.  As  Phoenicia  and  Judaea  lay  close  together,  those 
who  emigrated  from  the  one  country,  might  well  be  said  to 
have  belonged  to  the  other,  by  those  who  lived  in  a  distant 
country.  If  the  Carthaginians  had  been  called  Pceni  after 
Phoenix,  as  some  suppose,  and  the  ancient  Irish  called  Peni 
after  Fenius  Farsadh,  according  to  Dr.  O'Conor,  there  can  be 
but  little  doubt  that  both  were  but  one  and  the  same  person, 
and  more,  that  our  Fenians  were  Phoenicians,  who  settled  in 
Ireland,  and  became  mercenary  soldiers,  until  they  collected 
strength  to  their  ranks,  and  became  powerful  in  the  course  of 
many  ages.  If  Dr.  O'Conor  be  correct  in  his  opinion, 
namely,  that  the  Fenians  were  so  called  after  Fenius  Farsadh, 
which  opinion  was  undoubtedly  that  of  our  best  writers,  and 
old  annalists,  we  then  may  safely  assume  thatFinnus,  or  Finius, 
was  the  first  person  of  that  name,  and  that  his  actions  as  well 
those  of  several  others  of  the  same  name,  have  been  attributed 
to  Fionn  the  son  of  Cumhall. 

It  is  not  within  the  sphere  of  a  mere  introduction  to  dilate 
upon  the  important  enquiry  concerning  the  clann  or  original 
family  of  the  Fenians.  But  since  we  find  incontrovertible 
proofs  of  the  existence  of  the  Fenians  in  Lochlan,  Britain, 
Scotland,  and  other  countries,  and  that  the  Fenians  of  Ireland 
were  distinguished  from  their  kindred  of  the  same  name 
residing  in  other  parts,  by  the  epithet  of  Fenians  or  Fian  of 
Eire,  it  is  not  unreasonable  to  come  to  the  conclusion,  that 
they  were  a  branch  of  an  original  people,  who,  at  some  early 
period,   separated,   and   settled   in  various    countries.      This 


27 

notion  is  not  an  unliistorical  or  original  one.  Our  native  his- 
torians assure  us,  "  nemine  contradicente,"  that  a  certain 
Fenius  Farsa,  at  the  period  of  the  confusion  of  Babel,  digested 
the  various  languages,  and  that  he  paid  particular  attention  to 
the  Gaelic,  as  he  found  it  to  be  the  most  expressive  and 
copious  of  any  then  in  existence.  Who  was  this  Fenius — was 
he  the  <i'«/v4  of  the  Greeks — the  Phoenix  of  the  Latins,  who 
is  said  to  have  led  colonies  to  the  west  ?  Scholars  object  to 
this  theory  that  the  Phoenicians  never  called  themselves  by 
that  name,  but  Jehusaei,  Gergaesi,  Chenani,  &c.,  but  it  does 
not  follow  that  they  were  known  to  other  nations  by  another 
name,  any  more  than  the  English  who  have  been,  and  are 
still  called  Sassanagh  (Saxons)  by  the  Irish-speaking  portion  of 
our  people.  So,  the  Phoenicians  having  been  giants,  a  circum- 
stance almost  generally  acknowledged,  the  word  Feineagh  or 
Fianach,  signifies  a  giant,  as  well  as  the  attributes  usually 
conceded  to  persons  of  gigantic  stature,  and  physical  as  well 
as  mental  powers.  Bryant,  moreover,  states  that  Phoenicia 
was  originally  called  Canaan,  Cuas,  and  Cua ;  and  as  we  can- 
not very  easily  separate  or  rather  distinguish  the  ancient 
Phoenicians  from  the  natives  of  Canaan,  we  may  very  naturally 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  there  had  been  but  little  distinc- 
tion made  between  them  by  the  foreigners  whom  they  visited 
in  course  of  their  peregrinations.  It  is  not,  then,  too  much 
to  suppose,  in  the  absence  of  more  tangible  proof,  that  those 
enterprising  foreigners,  in  consequence  of  their  appearance  and 
general  habits,  won  for  themselves  the  name  of  Feinne,  <i>«/»<itif, 
Phoenicians,  amongst  the  various  people  of  the  countries  to 
whom  they  migrated.  Hence,  it  is  not  going  too  far  to  in- 
dulge in  the  supposition  that  our  Fenians,  since  they  were  not 
confined  to  Ireland  alone,  were  a  branch  of  those  enterprising 
foreigners  who  remained  in  this  island  and  elsewhere,  when 
casualties  and  changes  at  home  necessarily  cut  off  the  com- 
munications of  their  friends. 


28 

But  could  any  doubt  have  remained  as  to  the  oriental  origin 
of  our  early  colonists,  we  need  only  refer  to  numerous  Irish 
manuscripts  for  corroboration  of  this  fact.  The  author  of  the 
manuscript  battle  of  Ventry,  speaking  of  the  exertions  of  Budh 
Dearg,  the  Tuatha  Dedanan  king,  to  assist  the  Fenians  to  repel 
the  invaders  from  the  coasts  of  the  island,  consents  to  send  to 
Canaan  for  a  body  of  Tuatha  Dedanans  for  that  purpose ; 
but  the  commander  of  the  invading  forces  did  not  believe  in 
their  existence,  stating  that  the  Tuatha  Dedanans  could  not 
possibly  live  on  the  surface  of  the  land,  and  therefore  were 
not  Irishmen, — The  following  extract  from  that  old  manu- 
script, (pp.  293,  294.)  shows  this  :— 

•'  Budh  Dearg  solicited  by  the  Irish  plenipotentiary  to  assist  the 
Fenians  against  the  invasion  made  by  the  king  of  the  World  under 
the  allegation  that  the  Fenians  rendered  his  people,  the  Tuatha  De- 
danans, much  service,  consents,  and  sends  heralds  to  Tir  Tarngaire 
(Canaan)  for  the  Tuatha  Dedanans  who  were  located  there — The 
king  of  the  World  said  that  the  Tuatha  Dedanans  could  not 
possibly  be  a  division  of  the  people  of  Ireland,  and  if  they  were 
they  must  be  Siodhhhruighe  (fairies,)  and  could  not  possibly  exist  on 
the  surface  of  Ireland." 

It  would  be  well  worth  the  notice  of  our  archaeologists  to 
enter  on  the  study  of  the  origin  of  our  first  colonists,  but 
this  subject  would  become  a  labyrinth  indeed  to  such  as  have 
not  made  an  intimate  acquaintance  with  that  of  the  origin  also 
of  other  nations  of  antiquity.  Our  antiquaries  are,  no  doubt, 
wise  in  declining  to  enter  on  this  very  abstruse  enquiry, 
since  they  find  so  many  of  the  Continental  scholars  who 
treated  of  those  matters  involve  themselves  in  an  endless 
maze  of  difficulties.  But  with  a  knowledge  of  our  language 
there  is  no  knowing  how  clear  and  satisfactory  they  might 
have  made  their  enquiries,  since  our  manuscripts  are  all  very 
clear  and  explicit  on  the  point.  Had  the  learned  Bryant 
been  acquainted  with  the  language  and  history  of  Ireland,  his 


29 

work  would  certainly  be  one  of  the  best  ever  written.  But 
if  the  Fenians  of  Ireland  were  not  named  after  Fionn  Mac 
Curahaill,  as  they  undoubtedly  were  not,  may  they  not  have 
been  a  branch  of  Phoenicians,  who  had  settled  in  the  Cherso- 
nesus,  Alba,  Britain  and  Ireland  ? 

We  read  in  the  old  historical  tale,  Agallamh  na  Seanoiridhe 
(Dialogue  of  the  Sages),  which  is  now  preparing  for  the 
Society,  that  Fionn  son  of  Cumhall  was  a  Philosopher,  a 
Musician,  a  Bard,  a  Liagh,  an  Admiral,  a  Druid  or  Priest,  a 
Statesman,  a  Commander,  and  a  Prophet — we  have  a  prophecy 
relative  to  the  Danish  and  English  invasion  of  our  island, 
attributed  to  him ;  if  he  had  lived  three  hundred  and  ten 
years,  as  we  are  told  he  did,  and  had  been  engaged  in  a  severe 
course  of  study  all  that  time,  he  could  not  possibly  have  been 
learned  in  all  the  arts  and  sciences  required  to  render  him 
eminent  in  all  those  arduous  professions,  since  we  know  that 
the  span  of  a  long  life  was  found  only  too  short  for  men  who 
had  made  any  one  of  those  branches  their  study,  to  enable 
them  to  master  the  science  to  which  they  applied  themselves. 
Hence  the  fame  of  Fionn,  son  of  Cumhall,  did  not  really  rest 
on  his  individual  merits  as  a  man,  but  was  built  on  that  of 
other  persons  of  the  same  name  who  had  been  his  predecessors. 
The  piece,  which  is  now  about  to  be  given  for  the  first 
time  in  English,  is  really  curious,  but  is  of  that  class  which 
is  supposed  to  be  mythological,  because  few  of  the  incidents 
contained  in  it  can  be  explained  as  common  historical  events. 
It  opens  with  a  hunting  excursion,  but  instead  of  enjoying 
the  pleasures  of  the  chase,  Fionn  himself,  strangely  enough, 
falls  asleep  on  a  earn  on  the  mountain  of  Ceannsleibhe,  near 
the  Lake  of  Inchiquin.  The  Fenian  chief  was  attended  by 
only  one  Fenian  named  Diorraing ;  when  he  awoke  he  desired 
his  attendant  to  go  to  the  adjoining  wood  and  cut  some  wattles 
with  which  to  make  a  hut  for  their  reception  that  night. 
Diorraing  obeyed,  but  when  he  entered  the  wood  he  discovered 


so 

an  elegant  bruighin,  or  subterranean  abode  adjacent.  Dior- 
raing  having  returned  with  tlie  news  of  his  discovery,  Fionn 
resolved  to  seek  shelter  in  the  bruighin  that  night.  When 
they  arrived  at  the  door  the  porter  enquired  who  they  were, 
and  was  told  they  were  two  of  the  men  belonging  to  Fionn 
Mac  Cumhaill.  "  You  are  boding  misfortune  to  yourselves," 
replied  the  porter,  "because  it  was  Fionn  Mac  Cumhaill 
himself  that  killed  the  father,  mother,  and  four  brothers  of 
the  owner  of  this  place,  as  well  as  the  father  and  mother  of 
his  wife :  he  who  dwells  here  is  named  Conan  Ceann-sleibhe, 
who  is  also  named  Conan  of  Ceannsumaire,  and  it  was  Fionn 
himself  that  brought  him  to  Ireland,  from  Sumaire  of  the 
Ked  Sea,  near  the  shore  of  Loch  Lurg,  when  he  was  in  quest 
of  his  sword  called  Mac  an  Loin."  The  porter  then  withdrew 
and  presently  was  ordered  to  admit  the  guests. 

The  foregoing  piece  of  information  volunteered  by  the 
porter  has  but  little  meaning,  unless  we  can  connect  it  with 
some  incident  relating  to  the  arrival  of  the  early  colonists  of 
Ireland  from  the  east,  of  which  we  are  at  present  in  ignorance. 
However,  when  they  were  admitted,  Conan  welcomed  them, 
and  bade  them  be  seated,  and  then  asked  Fionn  to  favour  him 
with  the  names  by  which  he  had  been  known  in  early  life ; 
tlie  Fenian  chief  comphed,  and  informed  him  that  his  first  name 
had  been  Glasdiogan,  his  second,  GioUa  an  Chuasain ;  but 
that  he  was  known  by  that  name  because  his  clothing  con- 
sisted only  of  the  skins  of  the  deer  and  other  wild  beasts. 
Conan,  after  having  thanked  him  for  the  information,  requested 
him  under  penalty  of  geasa  (prohibition),  to  inform  him  on 
what  account  he  leaped  the  chasm  of  Brige  Bloighe  once  a 
year.  Fionn  stated  that  the  day  he  separated  from  his  foster- 
motlier,  Boghmuin,  when  she  had  been  slain  by  the  clan  of 
Moirne,  he  lost  his  way,  but  at  length  found  himself  at  Lua- 
chair  Dheaghaidh  in  the  south.  Here  he  saw  two  assemblies, 
one  of  fair  ladies,  and  the  other  composed  of  men  :  the  assem- 


SI 

blics  were  each  on  a  cam,  while  a  deep  wide  chasm  in  the 
mountain  separated  them.  He  went  to  the  crowd  of  ladies, 
and  enquired  the  cause  of  the  meeting.  He  was  speedily  in- 
formed that  Seadna,  son  of  the  king  of  Kerry-Luachra,  had 
fallen  in  love  with  Danat,  daughter  of  Daire,  from  Sith-Daire, 
but  that  the  lady  refused  to  marry  him  unless  he  engaged  to 
leap  this  chasm  once  a  year  during  his  Hfe  time.  Fionn  having 
seen  that  the  prince  baulked  at  the  leap,  when  he  reached  the 
margin  of  the  precipice,  enquired  whether  or  not  the  princess 
would  marry  another  if  he  would  make  the  leap.  Having 
been  answered  in  the  affirmative,  he  tucked  up  his  deer  skin 
garments  and  leaped  the  chasm,  not  only  forward,  but  back- 
wards as  well.  The  princess  bound  him  under  geasa^  (pro- 
hibition), to  perform  the  leap  once  a  year.  We  have  so 
many  localities  in  Ireland  distinguished  for  leaps  equally  as 
extraordinary  as  that  of  Fionn,  that  we  cannot  easily  separate 
the  circumstances  of  those  leaps  from  some  obsolete  Pagan  rite. 
Leim  na  Con  (Loophead),  in  the  southern  extremity  of  the 
county  of  Clare,  and  the  various  Leim  an  eich  (steed's  leaps), 
throughout  the  country,  strongly  warrant  this  opinion.  There 
are  footprints  left  by  the  steed  generally  on  a  rock  to  mark 
the  extent  of  the  leap,  and  these  marks  are  believed  to  be  of 
the  remotest  antiquity.  If  we  cannot  connect  Fionn's  leaps 
over  the  wide  chasm  with  the  labor  of  Hercules,  when  he 
separated  the  mountain  by  the  strength  of  his  arms,  we  can  at 
least,  in  someway,  connect  the  mysterious  footprints  with  such 
as  those  on  Adam's  Peak  in  the  island  of  Ceylon. 

The  history  of  Boghmuin,  as  told  by  tradition,  which  singu- 
larly enough  localises  it  to  several  places  in  each  province  of  y^      .  r, 
Ireland,  is  really  mythological.    The  tradition  prevalent  among  ^^^  ^-U/i-^ 
the  people  on  the  north  eastern  coasts  runs  thus.     When  / 
Fionn   had  reached  his  seventh  year,  Boghmuin,   who,  up   \ 
to  that  time,  was  doubtful  what  name  to  give  her  foster-son,    \ 
introduced  him  among  the  youth  of  the  clan  of  Moirne  while     j 


^tcr^AA^  ^(A^ 


82 

engaged  at  the  hurlet  at  Tara;  the  young  Boisgnean  soon 
worsted  them  all,  so  that  the  monarch  earnestly  enquired  who 
that  fair-haired  (Fionn)  youth  was,  who  behaved  so  bravely. 
Upon  which  .Boghmuin  caught  hold  of  him,  raised  him  on 
her  shoulders,  and  betook  herself  to  flight,  at  the  same  time 
.  j^  ,  .'•      exclaiming  aloud,  "  I  thank  the  gods  for  having  my  foster-son 

Q^  "  M  named  so  auspiciously."    Boghmuin  was  immediately  pursued, 

\^'y  but  being  nimble  of  foot  she  soon  outstripped  and  baffled  the 

^5^  '"  ^  '  /-  pursuit  of  her  enemies.  When  she  considered  herself  sfjfe  she 
^'"^    ,    ^  let  Fionn  walk,  but  he,  terror-struck,  flung  her  on  his  shoul- 

ders and  continued  his  flight  j  when  he  reached  the  sea  coast 
at  Lurgan  Green,  he  resolved  to  rest  himself,  but,  to  his 
mortification,  he  found  that  he  had  only  the  lurgam  (shin- 
bones)  of  his  foster-mother,  which  he  still  continued  to  hold  in 
his  hand;  these  he  cast  into  the  sea,  and  Lurgan  Green  has, 
from  that  circumstance,  been  called  ever  since,  "  Lurgain 
Ratha"  in  Irish.  There  are  some  antiquaries  who  think  that 
the  dispersion  of  the  members  of  Boghmuin  has  reference  to 
some  mythological,  or  historical  event  which  occurred  long 
before  the  Irish  settled  in  Ireland,  and  which  had  been  pre- 
served by  tradition,  if  not  to  the  dispersion  of  the  members  of 
Osiris,  since  the  event  recorded  has  been  so  generally  localised. 
The  Fenian  forces  were  remarkable  for  having  a  good  and 
brave  man,  as  well  as  a  bad  and  evil-minded  man  among 
them.  Fionn  himself,  as  a  matter  of  course,  was  the  best  man  ; 
and  Dealra  Dubh  was  the  bad  or  evil-minded  man,  for  he 
never  spoke  one  word  that  did  not  savour  of  censure.  Hence, 
whosoever  met  him  while  fasting  in  the  morning,  would  be 
certain  of  meeting  with  nothing  but  ill  luck  during  that  day. 
This  strongly  reminds  us  of  the  popular  belief  that  there  are 
certain  evil-minded  persons,  whom  it  is  unlucky  for  any  one  to 
meet  in  the  morning  while  fasting ;  these  persons  are  supposed 
to  have  the  Balar,  or  evil  eye,  and  it  is  considered  unlucky 
for  a  person,  while  fasting,  to  meet  such. 


33 

The  story  of  Roc  reminds  us,  in  some  measure,  of  that  of 
the  Cyclops  of  continental  mythologists,  but  still  the  analogy 
between  the  two  is  not  suiiiciently  close  to  warrant  us  in  sujd- 
posing  that  the  former  was  composed  in  imitation  of  the  latter. 
It  is  probably  connected  with  some  mystic  rite  now  forgotten ; 
since  Roc  made  the  circuit  of  nearly  the  whole  of  Ireland  in 
his  flight,  and,  like  others  of  our  celebrated  nautical  characters, 
made  a  superhuman  leap  at  Beinn  Eadair,  now  Howth. 

There  were  many  superhuman  personages  among  the  Eenians^ 
but  how  such  beings  were  tolerated  in  their  ranks,  it  is  hard 
to  conceive,  if  the  stringent  regulations  respecting  'the  quali- 
fications necessary  to  be  possessed  by  recruits,  were  duly 
enforced.  There  was  a  man  belonging  to  the  Teuian  ranks 
who,  though  so  deaf  as  to  be  unable  to  hear  the  loudest  sound, 
was,  nevertheless,  able  to  recite  all  the  Fenian  compositions 
that  ever  had  been  strung  together  in  verse.  This  would  not 
be  extraordinary  in  the  present  day,  but  we  are  not  told  that 
there  were  schools  for  the  deaf  and  dumb  then  instituted,  or 
that  instruction  was  conveyed  through  the  medium  of  books 
to  candidates  for  Fenian  honors.  The  most  curious  of  all  the 
supernatural  personages  amongst  the  Fenians,  was  a  man  who 
became  a  female  every  alternate  year.  The  story  of  this  strange 
being  much  resembles  that  of  Tiresius,  who  had  been  seven 
years  a  female. 

"  Deque  viro  factus  (mirabile),  femina,  septem 
Egerat  Autumnos." 

Ooid  Met.  Lib.  Ill Fab.  V. 

Fionn  himself  had  a  wife  for  seven  years  who  was  alive  by 
day  and  dead  by  night ;  the  case  of  the  Fenian  queen  re- 
sembles that  of  the  princess  Seba,  daughter  of  the  king  of 
Easroe,  who,  having  been  enchanted  by  her  Fomorian  step- 
father, died  and  came  to  Ufe  again  each  alternate  year;  and  of 
Faithleanu  Mongshuileach,  who,  like  the  children  of  Lir,  was 
invited  to  bathe  by  her  step-mother,  and  then  enchanted :  she 
was  conderuued  to  remain  one  year  in  the  shape  of  a  cat, 


34 

another  in  that  of  a  swan,  and  the  third  in  that  of  an  otter, 
and  so  on  in  rotation,  but  she  had  the  privilege  of  assuming 
her  natural  shape  one  day  in  each  year.  This  seems  so  curious 
that  it  is  considered  worth  while  to  give  the  following  ex- 
tract : — 

"i)o  5Ab  puAc  beA]in)A|i  Tt)5eAT)  |ií5  t)a  <t)iteolAii:)i^e  bo 
li)5eAT)  t;a  ceAb  riji^iv  .1.  pAjcleAijT)  2t)ot)5f  íi]leAC,  ocuy  bo 
]tu3  X]  bo  ftj'ATV  lei  1  ^]]^  e<^r  ^o  ^í  V-'5^\i  cAC|tAc  av  jtis 
.1.  6Af  Beobuitjije  Aitjro  at)  eAf  a  x]V,  ocuy  bo  cu]|i  yix 
SeAfAib  Í,  ocuf  Aj^iAc  fee  t)a  5efAibb  nt>  •■••  '^  ^^1^  bl^AOAiij 

ir)A  CAC,    OCU|*  bljAOAlt)  ]^).^  b-^AÍA,    OCUf  UtAOA]!)    11)A   oo- 

bA|tcoii)  i)e]nje ;  ocuf  b]  |*i  liv  biv]|t]5ce  5ACA  bljAOAjt)  biob 

rit)  11)A  C]tU]C  Í&1T)/' 

The  king  of  Dreoluinn's  daughter  conceived  a  violent  hatred 
against  Faithleann  Mongshuileaeh,  daughter  of  the  king's  former 
wife  ;  she  brought  her  to  bathe  in  Eas  Beobhuinne,  a  cataract  con- 
tiguous to  the  king's  palace,  upon  which  occasion  she  enchanted 
her.  The  following  were  the  bonds  under  which  she  enchanted  her, 
namely,  to  remain  one  year  a  cat,  another  a  swan,  and  the  third  a 
venomous  otter,  but  she  assumed  her  own  shape  one  day  in  each 
year. 

There  were  certain  conditions  to  be  observed  by  this  prin- 
cess and  her  friends  to  ensure  her  release,  and  it  appears 
rather  singular  that  such  enchantment  should  take  place  only 
upon  the  water,  as  in  the  case  of  the  children  of  Lir;  a  cir- 
cumstance of  itself  sufficient  to  warrant  the  supposition  that 
these  victims  of  stepmother's  cruelty  were  not  bound  by  a  spell 
to  assume  unnatural  forms,  but  were  dedicated  to  the  service 
of  Lir,  the  Irish  Neptune,  and  thereby  disqualified  for  the 
assumption  of  rank  and  fortune  in  the  world. 

Cats  were  special  objects  of  dread,  if  not  of  some  kind  of 
veneration,  among  the  ancient  Irish.  We  read  of  several 
persons  both  male  and  female,  who  had  been  metamorphosed 
into  cats  ;  our  story-tellers  used  to  spin  out  long  yarns  con- 


ÍÁ  OU44C 


35 

cerniiig  droidheacht,  or  druidical  cats,  among  these  tales  was 
conspicuously  celebrated  that  of : — 

"Cac  cAel  C]A|i  fitjce  n^í^  ^IT^  r^<^^Ii<^  r^'^t)  AtT^SI^^'"       ,..  /,•    r* 

A  slender  black  cat  reclining  on  a  chain  of  old  silver.  w-^^vt^i.  \ 

This  was  a  droidheacht  or  druidical  cat  endowed  with  human  '  -^ -'■'■^"^ 

faculties,  and  possessing  singular  privileges.  Cats  are  said  to  ^^~^*^< 
have  been  appointed  to  guard  hidden  treasures ;  and  there  are 
few  who  have  not  heard  some  old  person  tell  about  a  strange 
meeting  of  cats,  and  a  violent  battle  fought  by  them  in  his 
neighbourhood.  It  was  the  opinion  of  the  old  people  that  an 
evil  spirit  in  the  shape  of  a  cat,  assumed  command  over  those 
animals  in  various  districts,  and  that  when  those  wicked  beings 
pleased,  they  would  compel  all  the  cats  belonging  to  their 
division  to  attack  those  of  some  other  district.  The  same  was 
said  of  rats ;  and  rat-expellers,  when  commanding  a  colony  of 
those  troublesome  and  destructive  animals  to  emigrate  to  some 
other  place,  used  to  address  their  "  billet"  to  the  infernal  rat 
supposed  to  hold  command  over  the  rest.  In  a  curious  pam- 
phlet on  the  power  of  bardic  compositions  to  charm  and 
expel  rats,  lately  pubHshed,  Mr.  Eugene  Curry  states  that  a 
degraded  priest,  who  was  descended  from  an  ancient  family  of 
hereditary  bards,  was  enabled  to  expel  a  colony  of  rats  by  the 
force  of  satire  !  The  opinion  of  Mr.  Curry  as  to  the  supernatu- 
ral powers  of  Irish  satire'  is  not  to  be  rejected  :  and  we  have  on 
record  a  most  wonderful  account  of  the  eflects  of  a  satire  com- 
posed by  Seanchan  chief  OUamh  of  Erin,  upon  the  Royal  Cat 
of  Ireland  that  inhabited  a  cave  near  Clonmacnoise.  The  story 
is  thus  recorded  in  an  Introduction  to  the  "  Tain  Bo  Chuailg- 
ne": — Seanchan  and  his  troop  of  subordinate  Ollamhs  having 
paid  a  visit  to  Guaire,  king  of  Connacht,  who  was  celebrated 
for  great  liberahty ;  the  cross  old  man  becoming  displeased  with 
the  treatment  he  received  at  court,  refused  to  taste  the  rations 

1  For  the  history  of  Satire  in  Ireland,  See  O'Daly's  Tribes  of  Ireland  ^ 
edited  by  John  O'Donovan  LL.D.,  Dublin,  1851. 


36 

which  had  been  dressed  for  his  use.  After  having  fasted  some 
two  or  three  days,  his  wife  persuaded  him  to  accept  an  egg 
which  remained  after  she  had  finished  her  meal ;  but,  by  some 
neglect  of  tlie  servant,  the  mice — we  had  then  no  rats  in 
Ireland — devoured  the  egg.  The  old  Ollaiidi  was  so  exasper- 
ated that  he  vowed  to  satirize  the  mice,  but  upon  reflection 
indemnified  them,  vowing  to  make  the  cats  feel  the  venom  of 
his  satire,  since  they  suffered  the  mice  to  live,  and  thereby  to 
do  him  an  injury.  The  Eoyal  Cat  was,  therefore,  condemned 
to  suffer  the  effects  of  the  bard's  satire.  This  Royal  Cat 
having  felt  the  effect  of  the  satire  in  his  cave,  told  his  wife 
and  daughter  that  Seanchan  had  satirized  him,  but  that  he 
would  proceed  immediately  to  Guaire's  palace,  carry  the  old 
man  away,  and  wreak  ample  vengeance  upon  him,  by  tearing 
his  flesh  in  pieces.  The  Cat  proceeded  without  delay  to  the 
court  of  the  king  of  Connacht,  and  did  not  halt  until  he 
found  the  Ollamh,  and  having  cast  him  upon  his  shoulder 
without  opposition  from  the  guards,  carried  him  off-  The  cat 
while  carrying  away  the  satirist  on  his  shoulder  was  passing 
near  Cloumacnoise,  when  St.  Ciaran  happening  to  be  in  a 
neighbouring  forge,  and  seeing  the  Eoyal  Cat,  snatched  a  red 
hot  ploughshare  from  the  fire,  with  which  he  killed  the  animal, 
and  liberated  the  Ollamh.' 

'  It  appears  that  the  chief  Ollamh  of  Ireland,  named  Seanchan,  after 
having  satirized  the  mice,  and  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  ten  of  the 
tiny  pilferers  fall  dead  at  his  feet,  turned  his  venomous  weapon  against 
the  cats,  because  they  permitted  the  mice  not  only  to  live,  but  to  enjoy 
such  sway ;  and  more  especially  against  their  monarch,  since  he  was 
found  remiss  in  compelling  his  feline  subjects  to  discharge  the  onerous 
duties  they  owed  the  public.  We  may  leave  it  to  our  readers  to  form 
an  idea  of  the  opinion  which  tlie  Irish  people  then  entertained  of 
animals  of  the  feline  tribe,  when  we  inform  them,  from  the  Introduction 
to  the  Tain  Bo  Chuailgne,  that  these  animals  were  then  supposed  to  be 
governed  by  a  monarch,  who,  although  apparently  one  of  their  own 
species,  was,  nevertheless,  endowed  with  the  use  of  human  speech,  and 
other  faculties  not  belonging  to  the  brute  creation.  The  Royal  Cat  kept 


37 

There  are  some  classes  of  spirits,  such  as  the  Puca,  Bean- 
sighe,  &c.,  said  to  be  vulnerable,  if  shot  at  with  a  piece  of 
silver ;  and  a  gun  loaded  with  a  piece  of  silver  can  have  effect 
upon  such  witches  as  transform  themselves  into  hares,  for  the 
purpose  of  robbing  dairies,  according  to  popular  belief. 

It  is  the  general  opinion  of  many  old  persons  versed  in  native 
traditional  lore,  that,  before  the  introduction  of  Christianity, 
all  animals  possessed  the  faculties  of  human  reason  and  speech; 
and  old  story-tellers  will  gravely  inform  you  that  every  beast 
could  speak  before  the  arrival  of  St.  Patrick,  but  that  the 
Saint  having  expelled  the  demons  from  the  land  by  the  sound 
of  his  bell,  all  the  animals,  that,  before  that  time,  had  pos- 
sessed the  power  of  foretelling  future  events,  such  as  the 
Black  Steed  of  Biun-each-labhra,  the  Royal  Cat  at  Clogli- 
magh-righ-cat  (Clough),  and  others,  became  mute;  and  many 
of  them  fled  to  Egypt,  and  other  foreign  countries.  These 
were  evidently  oracles  in  the  days  of  paganism  which  had 
been  reduced  to  silence  at  the  coming  of  the  Saviour  of  man- 
kind, and  fell  into  contempt  on  the  introduction  of  the  Chris- 
tian faith.  The  Clocha  Oir  (Saxa  Solis),  not  the  Golden  Stones 
of  our  mere  matter-of-fact  antiquarians,  but  pillar- stones  dedi- 
cated to  the  sun,  were  famous  oracles  in  pagan  times.  There 
were  other  pillar-stones,  called  Gallan,  or  Dalian,  because  they 
could  not  foresee  future  events :  these  were  afterwards  called  Fir 
Breige  (fictitious  men),  and  became  objects  of  veneration,  under 
the  teaching  of  the  Bocaghs,  and  their  squaws,  who  profited 
considerably  by  the  cheat.  Though  the  oracles  are  generally 
said  to  have  been  silenced  at  the  time  when  Christianity  began 
to  prevail,  there  is  another  reason  assigned  for  the  cessation  of 

Ilia  court  in  the  cave  of  Cnoblia  ;  his  name  was  Dorasan,  son  of  Arasan  ; 
his  wife's  name  was  Eiachall,  and  that  of  the  princess  royal,  his  daugh- 
ter, Rinn-gear-fhiaclach  1  It  is  most  probable  that  these  notions  had 
been  derived  from  the  east  at  a  very  early  period.  We  cannot  trace  the 
origin  of  the  cat  cultus  any  farther  at  present. 


7 


38 

tlie  oracle  of  Clogh-magh-righ-cat,  or  Clough.  It  was  stipu- 
lated by  the  being  that  gave  responses  from  this  stone  tliat,  if 
any  one  told  an  untruth,  or  gave  a  false  description  of  any 
property  which  he  was  desirous  of  recovering,  to  the  oracle, 
the  consequences  would  be  fatal  to  him.  Every  person  who 
consulted  the  stone  was  wont  to  be  very  correct  in  his  words 
on  that  account.  At  length  a  Brughach  of  Orgiall  named 
O'Cathalain  (Callan),  having  lost  a  mare  which  he  supposed 
to  have  been  in  foal,  had  recourse  to  this  oracle  ;  he  described 
the  animal  as  being  in  foal,  and  instantly  had  the  following 
angry  and  insulting  response  ; — 

"  21  CA|ibAT&  n)Aeil  3ai;  ^jacaiI, 
'S  A  ntóju  fr^AcA  f-AlAicb; 
leAt}  x]oi^  cnvo  Atj  "Cit^ucA, 
<Do  liVllt  C|tÚbAC  5A1J  feA]iAicb ." 

Thou  of  the  bare  and  toothless  gums. 
Thou  of  the  peevish  drizly  nose  ; 
Pursue  down  to  Triuch, 
Thy  hoofy  mare  which  is  without  a  foal. 

No  sooner  had  the  response  been  given  than  the  oracular 
stone  split  in  twain,  with  a  tremendous  crash,  and  a  large  cat 
walked  out  upon  the  mound.  O'Cathalain,  provoked  by  the 
bitter  invective,  and  unable  to  restrain  his  irritable  temper, 
attacked  the  cat  and  killed  it ;  but  before  the  cat  died  he 
begged  his  murderer  to  grant  one  request ;  and  O'Cathalain, 
notwithstanding  the  provocation  he  had  received,  was  too 
honorable  to  refuse.  "  Well  then,"  said  the  oracular  cat, 
"repeat  this  rami  (stanza)  to  your  own  cats  when  you  gq 
home'' : — 

"  )\)}X  ^^  C]tA1)1)  CCAlA]cb> 

)X  bo  '^\)\]oh^\c  UA  luA]C]te; 
'3\i]i  rbA^ib  0'CacaU\ii), 

\<]X,  CljAC  CI)ltUAÓl)A." 


4  i.,i 


39 

Inform  the  Fire-raker, 
And  Gleadaigh  of  the  ash-pit ; 
That  O'Cathalain  has  killed, 
The  Royal  Cat  of  Oruachain. 

O'Cathalain,  according  to  promise,  repeated  the  stanza  to  his 
two  cats  when  he  returned  home ;  but  he  had  no  sooner  finished 
the  last  syllable  than  the  two  animals  sprung  at  his  throat  and 
gnawed  it,  so  that  they  killed  him  before  he  could  obtain 
assistance.  It  is  said  that  this  occurrence  took  place  long 
after  the  introduction  of  Christianity,  for  that  the  oracle  had 
stipulated  that  it  should  continue  to  give  responses  as  long  as 
those  who  consulted  it  should  adhere  to  the  truth  in  stating 
their  grievances  :  but  it  is  probable  that  the  whole  tradition 
refers  to  the  more  distant  period  when  paganism  prevailed  over 
the  island. 

This  species  of  cat-lore  was  probably  connected  with  the 
superstition  of  some  oriental  nations  who  held,  and  still  liold, 
cats  in  veneration,  and  it  is  one  of  the  many  remaining  traces 
of  the  oriental  extraction  of  the  aborigines  of  Ireland. 

The  Cloch  Oir  oracles  were  the  most  celebrated  of  all  among 
the  ancient  Irish,  as  appears  from  a  Latin  interlinear  note 
found  in  a  very  old  MS.  copy  of  the  curious  piece  called 
*' Ochtar  Gaedhal"  (Adventures  of  Eight  Irishmen),  which 
states  that  Conchobhar  Mac  Nessa,  afterwards  king  of  Ulster, 
was  counselled,  when  a  young  man,  by  the  oracle  of  Clogher, 
then  one  of  the  most  celebrated  in  that  district,  to  go  to  the 
Isle  of  Man,  and  cause  Cuilleann,  or  Guillean,  from  whom 
Shabh  Guillin,  and  probably  Cuailgne  in  the  county  of  Louth, 
derived  its  name,  to  make  a  suit  of  armour  for  his  use.  This 
extract  has  been  already  printed  in  the  "  Transactions  of  the 
Kilkenny  and  South-East  of  Ireland  Archfeological  Society." 
Yol  2,  p.  34.     It  is  as  follows  :— 

"  Grullinus  quidem  Ilcirtilmv  fuit,  nam  MV-  (Lir)  Ibernicum  aut 
Phoenicum  nomen  Neptuni,  et  idem  quod  mare  ;  ideo  Gullinus 
fuit  alteram  nomen  pro  1)1^.  deo  maris,  sicut  Tiobal  maris  dea  fuit. 


40 

Nam  ilia  Concubaro  Mac  Nessa,  postea  regi  Ultoniae,  apparuii 
sub  specie  mulieris  pulcherrimse,  cum  in  Manniam  Jussu  oraculi 
cui  nomen  c\oc\)\^]^;^.  i.e.  Saxum  So/is,  quod  isto  tempore  celeberrimum 
flat  his  partibus,  adebat  ad  Gullinum  quendam,  uti  daret  huadha 
druidica  clypeo  et  armis  ejus.  Gullinus  iniaginem  C|obAl  in  clypeum 
finxit,  et  huadha  multa  invincibiliaque  habuit,  secundum  auctores 
veteres  Ibernicos." 

Hence  it  is  evideut  that  Cloc/i-oir  was  not  a  golden  stone, 
but  the  sione  of  the  sun  ;  for  oft  or  újt  is  a  name  of  the  sun, 
(vide  O'Eeilly's  Irish  Dictionary,  sub  voce  ú|t,)  and  the  oracle 
of  Clochoir  was  the  most  famous  then  in  existence,  that  is,  in 
the  time  of  Conchobhar  Mac  Nessa,  who  flourished  in  the  first 
century  of  the  Christian  era. 

Of  the  Black  Steed  of  our  "  Biun-each-Labhra,"  we  find 
but  meagre  traces  in  manuscript,  though  the  topographical 
terms  having  reference  to  the  oracular  steed  are  pretty  numer- 
ous in  Ireland ;  e.  g.  Dun  Binn  Eich  (Dunbin),  which  has 
given  name  to  a  parish  situate  two  miles  to  the  west  of  Dun- 
dalk,  and  is  celebrated  in  folk-lore.  There  is  a  manuscript 
piece,  intituled  "  Mac  na  Mi-chomhairle"  (Son  of  the  evil 
advice),  which,  though  apparently  a  modern  composition, 
reflects  some  light  on  this  pagan  superstition.  It  is  said  to 
have  been  composed  by  Carroll  O'Daly,  commonly  called 
"  Cearbhall  Buidhe  na  n-Abhran"  (Swarthy  Carroll  of  the 
Songs)  on  account  of  his  turn  for  rhyming;  though  many  ascribe 
it  to  Parson  Brady,  commonly  known  by  the  name  of  Philip 
Ministeir ;  but  it  is  certainly  not  written  in  the  style  of  the 
latter.  This  beautiful  and  interesting  fairy  tale  contains  a 
good  deal  of  the  popular  traditions,  and  is  far  older  than  any 
work  on  the  same  subject  written  in  the  English  language. 
Treating  of  our  faiiry  mythology  it  states  : 

"  í)úi)-bit)i)-eic-lAb|i<Xj  |i]f  A  |tiv]6ceA|i  BiUT)eAC-LuyA 
Arjoii*  1  c-coicce  UIaÓ  ;  ajuj*  h*  u]n)e  beAficA|i  B|nu-OAc- 
lAb|iA  leif  AiJ  n;-b|i)i)  y\\)  ^.  a  c-c|i<\]C)b  i)a  Saiíjua  ho 
5;|5eA6  cac  fleAiijAii)  f-ljocAió  n)ó|i-uAcbítf ac  a|-  At;  n;-b|i)tj 


41 

AtlíAC  50  f)tt]'^e  A  Va]1,   A5Af  &0  UbltAÓ  Í50  JUC  hAeijÓA  pftfA 

cívc,  A^Af  &0  béAjiAÓ  pjOf  froijtpe,  ^ifteolAC  bo  5AC  ijeAc, 
&'a  T)-]A|tpA6  f5éAlA  A]]i,  pA  5AC  i)í6  íí'a  i)-éi|teócA6  60  50 
CjOTit)  bljAÓTjA  ua6  At)  c-SArbA]t)  ]*ii).      2l5ur  b'^ÍX15p]0&Af 

P]tOT)CA]6    A5U|*    C]081aCCA]6    tTjÓjlA    ATCe  AT)r)  f]T),    .1.  A3    Al) 

rn-b]OT);  A5A|*  bo  5é]ll]0bAf  ijA  pu]ble  bo,  50  b-^in^rit^ 
PbíVCC|lA]C  A3Af  T)A  ijAori)  c[é]]ie." 

Dun-Binn-each-labhra,  which  is  now  called  Binneach-Luna,  in 
the  province  of  Ulster:  the  reason  the  hill  was  called  Binn-each- 
labhra  (hill  of  the  speaking  steed)  was  this  ;  namely,  in  the  days  of 
Samhain  (All-hallows)  a  plump,  sleek,  terrible  steed  was  wont  to 
emerge  as  far  as  his  middle  from  the  hill,  and  speak  in  human  voice 
to  each  person  ;  he  was  accustomed  to  give  intelligent  and  proper 
responses,  to  such  as  consulted  him,  concerning  all  that  would 
befal  them  until  Samhain  of  the  ensuing  year.  The  people  used  to 
offer  valuable  gifts  and  presents  to  him  at  the  hill,  and  they  adored 
him  until  the  time  of  Patrick  and  the  holy  clergy. 

Whether  this  steed  superstition  gave  rise  to  the  popular 
belief  that  there  were  horses  in  the  olden  time  that  were  gifted 
with  human  faculties,  and  furnished  ideas  in  connection  witli 
the  numerous  prints  of  horse-shoes  found  impressed  upon 
rocks  and  stones  throughout  Ireland,  it  is  difficult  to  decide ; 
but  that  the  horse  was  once  an  object  of  great  religious  venera- 
tion is  pretty  clear  from  the  numerous  stories  told  of  enchanted 
horses  in  our  lakes,  and  the  frequent  mention  of  Each  Dubh 
(Black  Steed)  in  the  tales  of  our  Seanchuidhes.  The  story  of 
Con-edda,  and  his  steed,  or  the  Golden  Apples  of  Loch  Erne, 
is  perhaps  the  prettiest  found  in  any  language.  (See  Cambrian 
Journal  No.  6.) 

The  following  extract  from  a  manuscript  Life  of  St.  Kiaran 
of  Saigher  in  Ossory,  announced  for  publication  by  Mr.  John 
O'Daly  of  Dublin,  is  very  curious  : — 

"  2l5Uf  bo  ciot)f5A]r)  CjAjtivi}  AiciteAbAÓ  rt7A|t  ÓícfteAbAC 
'fAi)  ioi;Ab  ^*it),  ó||i  bo  b]  fe  Ajji  cinjcioll  bo  coillc|b  njófxA 
A1J  cAi)  fit) :  A5uf  bo  qoi)f5A]i)  A]-\i  b-cúf  fCAllA  beA5A  bo 


12 

oeAijAii)  be  obAift  &eA|i6]l,  A5Af  AT)t)  fit)  bo  rior)|*3Ait) 
TT)A]i)ifci|i  A5A^  cACAi|t  ^A  Oeo^J,  rtjAille  le  3lt^]*Aib  <t)&, 
biv'ft  bVpw  Sai5]|i  CbiAjtiviT)  A5  civc  a  C'CO]tc]r)r)e.  ílsAf 

AT)  TAI)  CiX]\)e4ib  ClAJliXI)    A^jt   C-rU]*    At)1)    X]^>    ^°    f^lS    ^IT* 

f5Aic  c|tAir)t),  A5Af  b'éi|i5]6  o't)  CAeb  o^le  bo't)  c|tAt)t)  co^tc 
aUca  |io-cuic]5,  A5A|*  rtjAji  bo  cor)A]tc  CiAjtivT)  bo  ce^c^^'e, 
A5Af  b'iort)po]5  A|tif  Tt)Ajt   f-eAjtb^ósAi^cAiÓe   ceAw^A  bo 

CblAjtiVt),    A]-\i    T)A    6éAT)Art)    Tt^ÍT)     O    *t>]^  ',    A5A|*    bO    b'fe    At) 

co]tc   fit)    céAb   6e]fC]obAl   A5Af    coAb   rt)AT)AC   bo  bi   A5 

CjAjtiVI)  'fAI)  101)Ab  |*TT),    A5A|'    bO    CUA]6    ^a't)    C-CÓiU  A5AÍ* 

bo  buAii)  ]*Iaca  A^Af  cui5e  ]b||i  a  -pjAclAib  tt)A|t  cut)5t)Arb 
cutt)  AT)  c-|*eAllA.  M]  |tA]b  Z]xix]i  buiT)e  A  b-focAi]t  CblA- 
]iiv]T),  AT)  CAT)  fit);  ói]t  If  AT)T)  A  AeT)^eA|i  o  T)A  ÓeT]*cioblA]b 

CÍVlt)eA6  1*é  CUTT)  T)A  biCfXeAbACA.  fl^^  'CiXT)5AbA]l  -[Alt 
TIT)  AlT)-TbiolcA  él5C]AllbA  CUTT)  ClAjtAjT)  Af  5AC  iV|tb  A 
|tAbAbA|t  bo'T)  ^ÍVf  AC  .1.  Sl0T)T)AC,    ^S^f    BjtOC,     A5Af    21)aC- 

q|ie,  A5A|*  6il|c;  A3Af  bo  b^bA]!  ceAT)T)-|*A  bo  CblA|tivT), 
A5Af  b'úrblAbAii  bív  ceA5A|*5  ttjaji  TbAT)ACA|b,  A5A|*  bo 
5T)ib]f    5AC    T)i6   A  béAjtAÓ   \i]u.       hSs,  be  b-civ]T)ic  at)  f]- 

0T)T)AC  bo  b]  AT)-TT)]AT)AC,  CeAl5AC,  TT)AllífeAC,  CUrf)  b|t65 
CblA|tiV|1),    A5Af    bo    501b    ]Ab,    A5Af  bo  fCACAll)    AT)    CÓ|tT)- 

cjorjAl,   A5A]*  bo  CUA16  |to|TT)e   bA  uattjaÓ  fé]T),   A5A|*  bo 

fAT)CA15  ]*é  T)A  b|tÓ5A    b'lCeAÓ  At)T)    Tit).       2ll]t   T)A    ^OjUfeAO 

X]r)  bo  CblAjtiVT)  bo  cui|i  tt)at)ac  ejle   biv  tt)uit)ci|i  .t.  at) 

b|t0C,  Al|t  CeAT)T)  AT)  C-f  IOT)T)Alcb  bíV  CAbA^ftr  3Uf  AT)  T0J)Ab 
C&Abt)A,    A3Af  CiV^TjeAO  At)  b|lOC  30    b-UA]TT)    AT)    C-nOt)T)AlC, 

A3Af  bo  f  uAi|t  A3   iceAÓ  T)A  TT)-b]tó3  é ;  0]|t  b'uAiÓ  ]-é  a 

C-cluA|*A  A3Af  A  T)-1aUa  ;    A3A|-    bo  C0)tT)-C]3T)l6  AT)  b|toc    é 

urt)  ceACc  le]f  turn  t)a  TDATt)i|-c|teAC,  ASAf  cAT)3AbAit  uin) 

C|tilCt)Ot)A  30  ClAJliXI),    A3Ar  t)A  b]tÓ3A  leo.       'Do  ]t;\l6  C|A- 

|t^t)  ]tir  At)  c-noi)i)Ac,  '  A  bitixcAiji !  c)teAb  u^tt)  A  i)-be<\)ii)A 

CÚ    At)    3AbA]3eACC    Ub    t)AC    A|t    6é-tT)A]feAC    bo    rt)Al)AC     A 

6eAt)Ari) ;  o]]x  aca  uif3e  t)eAti)-tt)A]l]]*CAC  A3Ait)t)  ]y  ai) 
3-coiccii)t)e,  A3Ar   ACA  bjAÓ  TtjAji   Ar)  c-céAbt)A ;  A3Af  bí\ 


43 

c-cujAÓ  bo  ijívbú^n  0|tc  30  njó  peí)i]ft|tí)e  leAC  peo^l  bo  ca|- 

CeAÓj  bO  ÓéAlJAÓ  <Í)]A  6u]C  bO  C|t01CeAT)T)A]b  T)A  C-C]tAl}T)  fO 
Ab    C]rt7C10ll  í  ?'        2l5AÍ-    b'lA]t|l    AT)    ^]Or)t)AC    At)t)    |*]r)     A^t 

CblA|ií\T)  I05A  A  peACAÓ,  A5Af  bfte]ceATT)i)AC  Aic|tí5e  bo 

CeAtJJAÍ  A^jt.       2I5AI*    bo    }l]^)\)e^b    ATTjIa,    A5Af    1)Í0|l    ^C  At) 

f|ot)t)AC  bjAO  30  b-puA^ji  ceAb  o  CbiA|tíiT),  ^5<^r  ^o  '^í  V^ 

^ÍJl-Aet)bA  O  l*]!)  A11)AC  T1)A|t  C^C." 

And  Ciaran  came  to  the  resolution  of  residing  in  that  place  as  an 
eremite,  for  it  was  entirely  surrounded  with  dense  woods  at  that 
time:  he  commenced  to  construct  temporary  little  cells,  he  next 
built  a  monastery,  and  afterwards  a  city,  by  God's  aid,  which  was 
commonly  called  by  the  people  Saiger  of  Ciaran.  When  Ciaran 
came  first  there  he  sat  under  the  shelter  of  a  tree,  and  a  very 
furious  wild  boar  started  up  from  the  other  side  of  the  same  tree, 
and  when  it  saw  Ciaran  it  fled :  however,  it  returned  and  became 
submissive  to  Ciaran,  being  tamed  by  God.  That  boar  was  the 
first  disciple  and  monk  that  Ciaran  had  in  that  place.  It  was 
accustomed  to  go  to  the  wood  and  gnaw  twigs  and  straw  to  assist 
to  construct  the  cell.  There  was  no  person  then  with  Ciaran,  for 
he  left  his  disciples  and  came  alone  to  that  desert.  Irrational 
animals  came  to  Ciaran  from  all  parts  of  the  forest ;  a  fox,  a 
badger,  a  wolf,  and  a  fawn.  These  became  submissive  to  Ciaran, 
and  hearkened  to  his  doctrine  as  monks ;  they  obeyed  him  in  every 
respect.  The  self-willed,  deceitful,  malicious  fox  happened  one 
day  to  find  Ciaran's  brogues,  and  stole  them ;  he  then  abandoned 
the  community,  and  hastened  to  his  own  cave,  where  his  passions 
prompted  him  to  eat  the  brogues.  When  the  matter  was  made 
known  to  Ciaran,  he  dispatched  the  badger,  another  of  his  monks, 
to  bring  the  fox  back  to  his  place.  The  badger  went  to  the  fox's 
cave,  and  found  him  devouring  the  brogues ;  for  he  had  already 
gnawed  the  strings  and  latchets.  The  badger  persuaded  the  fox  to 
return  to  the  monastery  :  they  both  came  in  the  evening,  and  fetched 
the  brogues  to  Ciaran.  Ciaran  said  to  the  fox.  '  Brother  !  why 
hast  thou  committed  that  theft,  an  act  which  nowise  becomes  a 
monk?  we  have  wholesome  water  and  food  in  the  community,  and  if 
thy  nature  prompted  thee  to  prefer  meat,  God  would  change  the  bark 
of  yonder  trees  into  flesh  for  thy  use.'  The  fox  then  besought 
Ciaran  to  forgive  him  his  sins  and  impose  a  penance  upon   him. 


44 

which  was  accordingly  done.  The  fox  did  not  taste  food  until  he 
obtained  permission  from  Ciaran,  and  he  continued  upright  from 
that  time  forward. 

This  story  may  perhaps  be  thus  explained  : — 
The  ancieot  Irish  had  a  system  of  jihrenology  of  their  own 
whicli  is  not  even  now  totally  forgotten.  The  operation  was 
performed  as  follows.  The  operator,  when  wishing  to  learn 
the  natural  propensities  of  his  subject,  placed  one  hand  on  1  he 
lower  part  of  his  forehead,  as  if  intending  to  screen  the  eyes 
from  the  glare  of  the  sun,  and  the  other  hand  in  a  similar  posi- 
tion under  the  chin ;  he  then  looked  into  that  portion  of  the 
face  which  remained  between  both  hands,  and  attributed  the 
character  of  whatever  animal  it  most  resembled  to  the  indivi- 
dual under  examination.  We  have  seen  the  operation  fre- 
quently performed,  and  known  men  to  have  been  nicknamed 
accordingly  :  as  Sionnach  O'Murchaidh  (Fox  Murphy),  Broc 
O'Coilgin  (Badger  Cox,  or  Cocks),  &c.  The  Almighty  could, 
no  doubt,  as  in  the  case  of  St.  Luke  and  other  eminent  saints, 
have  made  the  most  ferocious  animals  subservient  to  the  use  and 
convenience  of  his  servants,  but  most  probably  St.  Ciaran's 
monks  had  nothing  more,  in  common  with  foxes  or  badgers, 
than  the  resemblance  to  those  animals  wdiich  some  phrenologist 
of  the  old  school  discovered  in  their  faces.  There  had  been 
something  akin  to  Anubis  worship  prevalent  in  pagan  times  : 
this  might  have  led  to  the  habit  of  naming  those  who  had  been 
addicted  to  this  form  of  belief,  after  the  name  of  the  animal 
they  worshipped.  Much  blame  is  attached  to  Giraldus  Cam- 
brensis  for  giving  the  story  of  a  priest  and  a  wolf.  As  the 
work  of  Giraldus  is  not  at  hand,  the  following  extract  from 
the  pen  of  Father  Stephen  White,  of  Clonmel,  may  suffice  : — 
"Referens  ridendam  magis  quam  credendam  fabulam  (quam 
omnimodis  conaris  suadere  synccram  esse  historiam)  de  pio  illo 
catholico  homine,  qui  mente  huniana,  sensu  christiano,  ct  reliyione 
sincera,  etiam  et  dono  prophetiae  servatis  illajsis,  toto  reliquo 
bumano  corpore,   subito   in  lupinum    transformato,  non  nisi  phan- 


45 

tasticé  tamen,  seu  secundum  exteriorem  speciem,  ut  tu  tandem 
ais,  sacerdotem  in  sylvis  obvium  et  sedentem  sub  frondosá  arbore 
ad  igneni  salutavit,  oi'e  lupino,  humaná  voce,  aiens  !  *  Securi  estote, 
et  noli  timere ;  non  enim  trepidandum  vobis  est,  ubi  non  est 
tiraor,*  etc. :  qui  idem  verus  homo  in  lupum  phantasticum  mutatus, 
sacerdotem  suasit,  et  persuasit,  ut  ad  non  procul  inde  in  eadem 
silva  latitantem  accederet  phantasticam  lupam,  sed  veram  phan- 
tastici  lupi  uxorem,  feminamque  catholicam  piam,  in  extremis 
positam,  et  petentem  christianum  viaticum,  sive  sacram  eucha- 
ristiam,  quam  sciebat  sacerdotem  e  collo  in  piscide  servatara 
gestare.  Quo  trepidante  et  renuente  'Sanctum  dare  canibus,' 
nedum  lupis,  aut  lupabus,  ut  dicitur,  ecce  coram  sacerdote  lupus 
quasi  pede  pro  manu  fungens,  pellem  totam  a  capite  lupse  retrahens 
usque  ad  umbilicum  replicat,  et  confestim  expressa  forma  non 
lupae,  sed  mulieris  vetulse  et  nudae  cujusdam  apparet  ;  quam  cum 
sacerdos  obnixe  postulantem,  et  devote  eucharistiam  suscipientem, 
Sacramento  pasceret,  rursum  accedens  lupus  pellem  tantisper  re- 
tractam,  priori  lupae  formae  coaptavit,  et  vera  mulier  denuo  in 
lupam  phantasticam  conversa  fuit.  Qua  gratias  agente,  pro  collato 
synaxi,  rediit  sacerdos  ad  suum  ignem,  comitatus  lupo,  qui  tota 
reliqua  nocte  cum  praesbitero  ad  ignem  assidens,  et  ore  lupino  de 
rebus  ccelestibus  et  futuris  in  mundo  eventibus  humana  voce, 
magno  cum  pietatis  sensu,  colloquens,  tandem  actis  Deo  et  sacerdoti 
gratiis,  valedixit."  (-Apologia  pro  Hiberniá,  pp.  74,  73.  Dublin  :  John 
O'Daly,  1847.) 

Giraldus  Cambrensis  was  a  catholic  priest,  and  accompanied 
King  John  to  Ireland,  A.D.  1214,  as  his  tutor ;  he  heard 
this  and  other  strange  stories  from  the  people,  and  recorded 
them  in  his  work  on  Ireland.  The  story  may  be  true  in  a 
figurative  sense  ;  and  may  mean  that  an  unfortunate  man  who 
had  been  addicted  to  the  Anubis  form  of  worship,  unques- 
tionably prevalent  in  Ireland  in  the  latter  ages  of  pagan  sway, 
believed  in  the  truths  of  Christianity,  but  was  afraid  to  declare 
his  conviction  openly.  He  found  a  priest  to  whom  he  com- 
municated his  wish  of  becoming  a  convert,  and  the  good 
missionary,  though  afraid  of  being  betrayed,  discharged  his 
duties.  Hence,  the  story  of  the  man  and  his  wife  having 
been  concealed  in  the  skins  of  wolves. 


U  k^Cvth'^ 


46 

Tlie  weird-wolf  was  supposed  by  the  Germans  to  have  been 
a  wizard  who  metamorphosed  himself  into  a  wolf,  and  did 
much  injury  to  the  human  race,  according  to  the  following 
extract : — 

"  Were-wulf  (Sax)  or  were-wolf  (were  in  the  old  Sax,  was 
sometimes  used  for  man)  this  name  remains  still  known  in  the  Teu- 
tonick,  and  is  as  much  as  Man-wolf ;  which  is  a  certain  Sorcerer, 
who  having  anointed  his  body  with  an  ointment  made  by  instinct 
of  the  Devil,  and  putting  on  a  certain  inchanted  Girdle,  does  not 
onely  to  the  view  of  others,  seem  as  a  Wolf,  but  to  his  own  think- 
ing, hath  both  the  shape  and  nature  of  a  Wolf,  so  long  as  he 
wears  the  said  Girdle,  and  accordingly  worries  and  kills  humane 
creatures.  Of  these  sundry  have  been  taken  in  Germany  and  the 
Netherlands.  One  Peter  Stump,  for  being  a  Were-wolf,  and 
having  killed  thirteen  children,  two  women,  and  one  man,  was  at 
Bedhur  not  far  from  Cullen,  in  the  year  1589,  put  to  a  very  terrible 
death.  Verst.^'  (Blount's  Glossographia,  Voce  Were'ioulf,  p.  700. 
ed.  1670.) 

Similar  to  the  story  of  the  German  Were-wulf,  is  that  re- 
corded in  the  Irish  Kennius,  edited  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Todd, 
S.r.,T.C.D.,  (pp.  204-205)  for  the  Irish  Archseological 
Society,  respecting  the  Wolf-people  of  Ossory  in  the  county 
of  Kilkenny : — 

"S^l  10  ^íAelcot)  1  t)-0f|tAi5Tb  aca.  Sl^j*»!  l^lS'Mb  acu, 
belbAic  jAc  }  cor)|teccA]b.  acuj*  biA  Tt)A|tbcA|t  iac  ACuf  yeo\\ 
Tt)A  tpbeUib,  ]X  ^^^^]^  b]b  tjA  cu]|tp  Af  a  cjasaic;  Acuf 
Aicu^c  biA  n7uir)ce|tAib  pAji  posliiAifceji  i)a  cuijip,  A^t  biA 
t>3luAifce|t  \)\  cicpAfe]-un)  cue  a  ^empeti." 

*•  The  descendants  of  the  wolf  are  in  Ossory.  They  have  a  wonder- 
ful property.  They  transform  themselves  into  wolves  and  go  forth 
in  the  form  of  wolves,  and  if  they  happen  to  be  killed  with  flesh  in 
their  mouths,  it  is  in  the  same  condition  that  the  bodies  out  of  which 
they  have  come  are  found  ;  and  they  command  their  families  not  to 
remove  their  bodies,  because  if  they  were  moved  they  never  could 
come  into  them  again." 

If  the  circumstances  already  detailed  savour  of  the  religious 
rites  of  by-gone  days,  the  entertainment  given  to  Fionn  and 


47 

some  of  his  people  at  the  house  of  Cuanda,  affords  a  good  and      -t-v        c~^ 
instructive  tnorale  conveyed  in  an   entertaining  story.     The    -J  C/[tC-hCU\ 
Dord  Fian,  which  was  a  celebrated  musical  instrument  of  the  " 

Tenians,  is  said  to  have  been  invented  by  the  three  sons  of 
Cearmad,  son  of  Daghdae^  who  was  a  Tuatha  De  Danan  deity. 
Tatha  Conan  was  the  next  who  improved  it,  when  nine  men 
were  required  to  play  upon  it,  and  it  was  finally  brought  to 
perfection  by  Fionn  himself,  who  employed  fifty  men  to  tune 
it.  Frequent  allusions  to  this  instrument  are  found  in  Fenian 
poems.  In  the  poem  of  "  Cnoc  an  Air"  (Hill  of  Slaughter), 
when  the  appearances  in  the  sky  forboded  disaster,  Fionn 
sounded  the  Dord  Fian  to  call  his  forces  together  : — 
"  Do  feir)&  y]Ot)X)  AT)  <t)ó|tb  fh]^VV, 

jr  b'riteASAiTt  lAt)  IDA  V5^]]i ; 

3ac  |:eAfi  m^  luAjce  ceACC, 
ejbiTi  pUir,  ir  c|i]AC,  ir  cívio." 

Fionn  sounded  the  Dord  Fian, 

And  they  (the  Fenians)  responded  with  their  shouts  ; 

Every  man  came  with  utmost  speed. 

The  prince,  the  chief,  and  the  private. 

In  another  Lay  Oisin  regrets  the  want  of  the  music  of  the 
Dord  Fian  : — 

"  jf  cu]|tfeAc  clivc  bjTt)  bo  ^t^ívc, 
2I5  j-n^uAirje  A|t  i^a  c|t&Ar)-^i|t ; 
3at)  éi|*beAcc  le  5uc  3ívÓA|t, 
'S  le  I3ó|tb  fuAj^riiAji  T)A  "pejijije." 

'Tis  weary  and  weak  I  do  be  always, 
While  thinking  on  the  valiant  men  ; 
Without  hearing  the  cries  of  hounds. 
And  the  sleep-inviting  Dord  of  the  Fenians. 

The  Dord,  or  Dordan,  according  to  the  Lay  called  "  The 
Vision  of  Oisin,"  had  the  power  of  awakening  from  sleep  as 
well  as  that  of  causing  it : — 


48 

'CA]]i]:]oy  ÓAtT)  6,  CAOit)  at)  cleAf  ; 

jr  é  6ú]]*i5  TDe  Af  njo  fuAi), 

2lt)  í)ójtbAtj  b]T)t>,  buAit)  |ten)'  ^eA]*." 

The  Dordan  of  the  Fenians  at  Magh-minn, 

Affected  me,  sweet  the  delusion, 

'  Twas  it  that  awoke  me  from  my  slumber, 

That  sweet-sounding  Dordan  interfered  with  my  prescience." 

The  Dord  from  the  above  extracts  ai)pear  to  have  been  used 
as  a  bugle  or  lousical  instrument  to  summon  the  Fenians  to 
assemble,  as  well  as  one  to  amuse  them  at  the  festive  board. 
There  may  have  been  several  instruments  of  different  con- 
structions named  Dord  and  Dordan,  but  probably  the  Dord, 
or  Dordan,  most  celebrated  for  the  sweetness  of  its  tone,  was 
a  musical  instrument  used  upon  solemn  and  religious  occa- 
sions. It  is  not  unreasonable  to  suppose  this,  since  it  was 
first  made  by  the  Tuatha  De  Danans,  who  are  said  to  have 
been  connected  with  Dagdae,  and  since  we  read  in  the  Tain 
Bo  Chuailgne  (Cattle  Spoil  of  Cooley),  that  the  deity  bull, 
Donn  Cuailgne,  was  wont  to  be  attended  by  fifty  young  men 
who  sounded  the  Dord  for  his  amusement  every  day.  This  is 
also  confirmed  by  popular  tradition  which  represents  this  in- 
strument as  a  druidical  one. 
U  .       .  There  were  other  instruments  of  music  used  by  the  ohl 

fy\MA^  ^"CA^         Irish,  the  most  esteemed  of  which  were  the  Cuislean  Ciuil,  or 
^ 'M  lrt£V'vWi~~    bag-pipes,  Tiompan,  or  timbrel,  and  Cruit,  or  harp.     The 
Cuislean  Ciuil  are  mentioned  in  several  old  manuscripts,  and 
in  one  of  the  Lays  of  Oisin  thus  : — 

"  2lt)  h'A  3<v6a|i  &6a3  h\  ac  Tioi;t), 
s  2lr)  CAT)  l6iccf:c  lAcc  fA  jiAjc; 

Bii)bc  lAcc  t)A  cuifle  c]\x]\, 

'S  A  IJ-A5A16  o'\}  C-SlU1|l  AttJAcl)." 
The  twelve  hounds  belonging  to  Fionn, 
When  unleashed  in  the  chase, 
(Their  cries)  were  sweeter  than  Cuisle  Ciuil, 
While  started  from  the  Suir  onwards." 


49 

The  Cuislean  Ciuil  have  been  translated  bag-pipes,  it  is 
nevertheless  doubtful  whether  the  bag  and  bellows  were  then 
used  as  at  present ;  most  likely  the  instrument  bore  a  greater 
resemblance  to  the  Highland  than  to  the  Irish  pipes. 

The  Tiompan  was  a  musical  instrument  of  very  ancient  date, 
probably  it  had  been  early  introduced  from  the  east ;  there  is 
a  very  good  description  of  it  given  in  one  of  the  Lays  of 
Cailte,  son  of  Honan,  as  follows  : — 

R^f  A.  c-roibeolbA]f  5AC  uA]it, 
SluAJ  Ai)  bon)A]\)  5<vi)  bjonibuAiO  ! 
T^jorT)pivT)  bo  b]  A5  t)A  n)\ji)>.]h, 
3oiM  le]c-|tii)i)  Ai|i5|cc  b^iT;; 
3otM  beil5t)]b  b'ó|i  buióe, 
OOUA  céAbAjb  p|Oi)i)-b|iu]i)i;e." 

The  timbrel  upon  which  the  three  phiyed. 

It  was  upon  it  Mac  Cumhaill  always  played  ; 

By  its  (sound)  they  would  ever  drop  into  a  sleep, 

The  hosts  of  the  world,  without  irksoraeness. 

The  timbrel  which  the  women  had. 

Its  rim  was  made  of  white  silver  ; 

The  pins  of  yellow  gold. 

And  the  strings  of  bright  brass. 

The  story  of  the  relationship  of  Bran  and   Sceohiing  to         ^  ^  CVvw 
Fionn  Mac  Cumhaill  undoubtedly  savours  of  Anubis  worship,       /u\tiM-Ci 
and  confirms  us  in  the  opinion  already  expressed  that  Tionn  was 
a  name  given  to  great  men  as  Pharaoh  had  been  to  the  kings 
of  Egypt.  There  were  many  men  named  Fionn,  as  we  learn  from 
a  poem  on  the  family  of  Fionn  composed  by  Mac  Ptonau  : — 
"Flow,  fl^x)\h  ir  i)eirbr)e  ó'r)  <D]ioirr), 

7-ioT)t)  ]f  "CiteAijrbóft  o't)  c|t^|5  cent, 
Rob'  ]Ab  M)n)or)r)^  ax)  céAb  fh^Pj" 


50 

f  I  ^vwt^  ']\u■^^AJi^  Fionn,  Flann,  and  Deimhne  from  the  Ridge, 

'  Wore  the  three  names  of  the  son  of  Cumhall ; 

Fionn  and  Treanmor  from  the  eastern  shore. 
Were  the  names  the  first  Fionn  bore. 

There  were  other  persons  named  Fionn  in  the  Penian  ranks  ; 
one  was  son  of  Breasal,  according  to  a  poem  attributed  to 
Garradh  Glundubh  of  the  tribe  of  Moirne : — 
"  i)o  b]  5"^nie  5ioUa  pb|T)P, 

215111*  '}-]o^)t)  bi\r)  TtjAC  BiieA|*A|l, 
3o  b-civ|ilA6  bó]b  ]iTítteAí*Ai?." 

Guaire,  the  servant  of  Fionn, 
Was  playing  at  chess  ; 
With  Fionn  the  fair,  son  of  Breasal, 
Until  a  dispute  arose  between  them. 

The  circumstance  of  there  being  many  persons  named  Fionn, 
as  previously  noticed,  and  the  alleged  affinity  of  Fionn 
Mac  Cumhaill  to  liis  favourite  hounds,  would  naturally  lead 
to  the  supposition  that  the  name  Fionn  was  an  honorary  title, 
or  some  epithet  bestowed  to  distinguish  him  as  an  Anubis 
worshipper.  We  read  in  the  Tain  Bo  Chuailgne  that  the 
renowned  Cuallan  or  Guallin  had  a  remarkable  watch-dog, 
which  CuchuUainn  slew,  who  on  that  account,  was  con- 
demned to  serve  in  the  capacity  of  the  defunct  animal  until 
he  could  procure  a  substitute.  Hence  he  was  called  Cu 
Chuallain  (the  hound  or  dog  of  Cuallan),  which  can  mean 
nothing  more  or  less  than  that  the  young  liero  conformed  to 
the  worship  of  the  dog  deity. 

The  metamorphosis  of  Fionn  into  a  withered  old  man,  by 
virtue  of  the  waters  of  the  lake  of  Sliabh  Gullin,  is  a  curious 
piece  of  druidical  history.  The  incidents  are  beautifidiy  de- 
tailed in  the  poem  of  the  chace  whicli  has  been  translated  by 
Miss  Brooke,  and  lately  by  the  llev.  Dr.  Drnnnnond.  Milu- 
cradh  was  daughter  of  Cuallan,  after  whom  the  mountain  has 


51 

been  natncd,  and  a  dmidess.  She  is  generally  known  in  the 
neighbouring  districts  by  the  name  of  Cailleach  Biorar  (Hag 
of  the  Water).  She  is  said  to  be  still  in  existence,  and  her 
house  is  pointed  out  under  the  Cairn  on  the  mountain,  from 
the  door  of  which  is  always  seen  a  beaten  path  to  the  edge  of 
the  lake.  The  old  druidess  is  much  feared  by  the  surrounding 
peasantry  ;  and  several  attempts  have  been  made  to  drain  her 
lake,  but,  according  to  popular  tradition,  she  always  interfered 
when  the  works  were  nearly  completed,  and,  by  some  spell  or 
other,  prevented  their  completion.  It  is  singular,  too,  that 
the  people  believe  that  the  water  of  this  lake  still  changes  the 
hair,  as  in  the  days  of  Fionn  Mac  Cumhaill,  into  a  silvery 
hue,  many  instances  of  which  are  recorded  by  the  neighbour- 
ing peasantry.  It  may  possess  some  natural  properties  like 
those  of  Loch  Xeagh,  which  would  account  for  this.  Lakes 
and  estuaries  were  considered  by  the  ancient  Irish,  to  be  in- 
habited by  serpents  and  other  monstrous  animals,  all  of  which 
were  droidheacht  or  druidical ;  the  same  opinion  still  prevails 
among  the  people  in  many  districts.  It  was  the  part  of  a 
truly  brave  hero  to  attack  and  kill  these  destructive  creatures. 
In  the  MS.  account  of  the  battle  of  Clontarf,  we  are  informed 
that  Murchadh,  the  heroic  son  of  Brian  Boroirahe,  destroyed 
all  the  serpents  and  monsters  he  found  throughout  the  king- 
dom ;  and  surely  Tionn  Mac  Cumhaill  could  not  have  been 
less  heroic  in  this  respect. 

The  following  extract,  detailing  the  number  of  serpents  and 
monsters  slain  by  Fionn  Mac  Cumhaill  is  from  the  Lay  of  the  (/ 

Chace  of  Sliabh  Truim,  in  Mr.  O'Daly's  collection  of  Irish 
]\ianuscripts,  and  is  given  to  the  reader  accompanied  with  a 
literal  translation  as  being  a  curiosity. 

"  2^<\|i  ho  CACArrjA^ii  ai)  c-|*e]l5, 
Ma  caca  úb  pA  6eA|t3  f'^uAJ ; 

<t)0  Cfl|AUAn7A]|l  pjArjT^A  "phit)!), 

O  f-liAb  "Cjtiqrn  50  LocA  Cuao. 


52 

7^UA|tArT)A|l  P|AfC  Aft  A1)  loc, 

t^ioji  focAft  OufDij  A  bejc  AT)i) ; 

2l5ll]*  ^éACA]T)T)  6Ú]l)T)  'lJÍV]t  C-CeACC, 

"pA  rbó  'dí^  cijoc  a  ceAut) ! 

21  cuA|tA|*5bik]l  |ie  rboUo, 
5o  TTj-beAÓ  1JA  5lorbufi  5AI)  búij ; 
í)o  coillfre  5e']t  n)ó|i  a  fr|tAOC, 
CéAb  Iaoc  a  Ia3  a  6A  fill. 

p<v  n;ó  i)Ac  5AC  c|iAi)u  A  3-C01II, 
21  f  jacIa  bo  ÍA]\\  5AC  3|i^ii) ; 

T^iV  Tt^O  'lJÍV  C0TT)Ia6  CACflA15, 
CluAfA  AT)  ACftAlC  '\)i\]t  t)-&iV|l. 

S]A6  I) a  OCCA)t  5 AT)  eAj-bA, 

21  eAitbAll  ]*CA|Tb<\c  |te  bjtori) ; 

Bu6  iiAfTTjiie  At;  cuib  bA  cAO]le, 

M^  bA]]!  b]l]OT)T)  be  at;  co]ll. 

2t)Aft  bo  COT?AftC  UAC  AT)  T^UA^, 
í)'eA|l  If  bA  Tl)Ó|l  A  f  ftAOC  ; 
BjAb  A^l  T1)AC  2t)Ól]tT)e  5 AT)  01)T), 

'Ha  córbtiAC  COT)  a5A|*  Iaoc. 

f]0\)t).     H]   be  piA|XAlb  6]|V10T)I)  CÚ, 

21  C|tÚ  T)AC  TT)A1C  C^ll  T)A  COM); 

Civ  })-'A]C  Af  A  b-CAT)5AH'  bo't)  5leAT)T)? 

21  biibAT|ic  "pjoi)!)  peAfiOA  f]All. 

P|Afc.  'C^iDic  n)ire  A  T)oir  o'l)  t)-oiic]5, 
21td'  jiSiti)  50  ]tiviT)]C  Loc  CuAT); 

i)'lA]tJ1Al6   COrbpAC  Alfl  AT)  b-  'pélT)T), 
'S  bo  JAbAfl  C|l&  T)A  flllAJ. 


58 

"CuireAbAji  ^luAjjce  le  tt)'  jleó ; 
lÍAib  JDutjA  b-p<v5A6  TTjo  6iol, 
Mj  ^u]5peAfc>  ^6bA|i  I'll  beó. 

'Clf^4<]6  ÓATTJ  COrbflAC  CO  luAC, 

21  rbóji  fluAj  'civ  A5  "piot;!? ; 
3o  b-^eACAti)  0|tu]b  a  i)0)f, 
2l)o  i:)eA]tc  cAjt  éjf  ceAcc  cA|i  corjt). 

'p.  2l]|t  jfi^Ó  b-lUi;eA6  ]wif  6ú|t)ij, 

5^  n)ó|i  bo  5u]i  ]r  ^o  5^*^t> ; 

See aIa  bo  ACA|1  ]t*  550  Alt)]rT>, 

Sul  CAjceAtT)  A]t  r)-Ai|aii7  Ab  6iv]l. 

p.  2lcfiAc  C]i)i;ce  aca  'xai)  '^])jié\-^, 
Juoeój-Ab  5A0  bíté]5  a]i;td  jrj^c  ; 
C|iorT)  i;a  CA]|t5e  pA  b-í^Ttb  bUc, 
2ln  P^mse  coifi  A5  cloc  Aca. 

Péirc  ir  "?Aic  soil  >Ar  olc  3r)A0i, 

T^A  b  í  VV)  <^  iJeAr)  5A1)  locc ; 

)]•  ceA|tc  cACAiit  c-^-ojjt  i^ívfi  bfiir, 

Jr  1l»5<*''^  "71  re  60  TT7A]t  TbAC. 

<t)Y^5bAr  cii]|t|-e  A]t  5AC  cíft, 
2l|ib  r)A  c-Cac  50  pi0|t  m'Ajon?  ; 
^  'pbli)!;,  ir  tiMir  c^|-5  if  buAÓ, 
Ní  caf'  Ijort)  bo  fluA5  V^  D-A|jirT7, 

2I3  VV)  Ai;  rS^Al  b'piAp|tA]r  Óíort), 
21  7-blT;t),  ir  n^A^c  C0I3  ]Y  5lA|c ; 
"CAbAifi  ÓATb  íofijAil  50  b]Ar), 
3í  líor)iÍ7A]t  bo  pl;iAi;t;  ]|-  bo  yeAjtc  ? 


5* 

í)ív  cof5  bo  cuA^bAjt  t;a  ]*Iua5, 
jf  ^uA|tAbA|i  uAC  n7Ó]t  bitojb. 

'C4>.]l)]C  AT)  plAjX  pO]t  A|l  C-CACAlb, 

j|-  rtjó|t  b'ív]t  tr»ACA|b  bo  cujc  lé]  ; 
p^  n}ó]x  A|t  i)-bíc  le  cof5A|i, 
Nioji  cuaIa]P3  y]r)x)  cofr)ATt)  l&|. 

Cc|l5ceA|t  AT)  c-f-e^ls  50  cuirijoe, 
2lft  Ai)  p^lfc  30  cuilrne,  bofib  ; 
í)o  cjioiceAtT)  ]T;ce  rnó]i  ccaca, 
T^iiji^cej  C0I5,  A5ii|*  |'l6A5A. 

't)o  bívn)A|t  xiAice  ciii]t|*eAC,  z.]X)r), 
H]0\x  cu)n)feAC  6iiit:)r)  a  fpAftAiDt) ; 
^o  floiscAb,  (516  A]t  lóft  b'&|5]or;)j 
lAec  e]b]]t  é]be  ]f  a|itt)  ! 

í)o  flo]^  fí  "pfoijt)  lt)A  Tt^eoÓAi;, 

'Bh'^nj^T}  c|téin7fe  jat)  CAbAnt, 

'S  Al)  piAfC  A3  CAbATJtC  A]l  T)-ÍVlfl  ! 

<t)oiiAf  Aiji  3AC  CAeb  b'A  cojtp, 
í)o  |tii)i;e  "Fiotji)  i;í^|t  b'olc  TTjé]i); 

3»!^  l«>13  An)AC  3AP  fUlllCACj 

3ac  i;eAC  A  f'lo]3CA6  be^)  pbt'lUt)' 

pjoyt)  P]aI  o'i;  c-cón7|tAC  bo  ix]^)^}, 
<t)'p6|]t  AT)u  Aijt  At)  r-|-liiA5 ; 
3«^  pu^rS^^I^  l*^  cjióAT)  A  lívitije, 
S]UU  lt>  Tt<i]n)  A  3A]c  50  n^-buAÓ. 


55 


2t)óTi  Ai?  cfiéitje  bul  bív  c-cofs  j 

í)o  conjUiijt},  5e'|i  c|tuA]6  at)  céin), 

Míojt  ^Ai)  5U|i  r5<^l^  ^  b-AT)ATt)  T^e  co|tp. 

2l|i  cu]c  be  piAfCAib  |te  'pioT)!), 
Hí  cuiTt]:iO|t  A  ru|n)  30  bjtívc ; 
21  T)-beA|itjAÓ  b'A5Ai6  'f  b'éACC, 
21  T)-'Ai|teAri)  r)oc  Ajt  ^éAb  cívc. 

t)o  ri)A|tb  piA|x  LocA  Cuillijf?, 
t:biMC  ]te  2t)AC  CútbAiU  50  |tAic  ; 
)y  lUpiAfc  Bbl«)Ue  b-&AbAitt, 

21  COX'S  VÍO\í  péAbAÓ  A   C-CAC. 

P]AXz  ojle  tocA  CuiliT^t?, 
"Cbuic  n©  2t)Ac  CúrbAiU  aí;  óiti ; 

'Do  njAjtb  piAfc  LOCA  MeACCAC, 
j|-  AC|iAC  5blli?t)e^T;  SiDÓil. 

Tbujc  piArc  é]]ive,  S^V  sotitT),  leir, 
jl*  piA]*c  bo]tb  LocA  KlACAC  ; 
í)o  tbAjtb  5e'|t  ciiéAi)  cjtoióe, 

P]A|*C  A5A]-  CaC  At)  2lc-cllAC. 
<t)0  TbA|tb  X^  }^UAC  LOCA  iéit), 

2t)óit  Ar)  péjórt)  bul  b'a  cloibe ; 

í)o  TbAjib  r^  'puAC  A  T;-<D|ton}  Cléib, 

'PUAC  A5Ar  PlAfC  1-OCA  FÍS- 

't)o  Tr)A|xb  f]OV^)  h'A  n)ó|t  cixojbe, 
T^uAC  5bllt)i)e  Kí5  DA  itób ; 
5ac  piAfc  le  ijeAjtc  a  Iaiji)  tbii)i) ; 
21  t)-5leAi)t)CAib  ^]\i]om  5"n  ^^^- 


56 


"PuAC  <\5U|-  P)AfC   5.bllUl)C   l)-2l|in)A, 

<t)o  ii)<.\itb  'pjoi;!)  5é'|i  caItda  ta&  ; 
5u|t  óíbiit  pioiK)  o  Ti^cAib, 

3aC  PIAVC  T^iV  |IACa6  a  C]t]All. 

PjAfc  Afi  S]oi)uii;t)  y'^  yoLs]]-, 
i)o  co|-5  f]  roDAf*  i;a  b-|:eA|i; 
i)o  clo|6  ^10  cvV|co  Ai>  bon}A]i>, 
P]AfC  LocA  KArbAtt  1)A  C-C|ieAf. 

i)0  TbA]tb,    pCV  TTJÓfl  A  C01a6, 

puAC  Sbl^lbe  5oille]T)t)  5é']t  bo|ib  ; 

jr  bin  péii'c  5blT)ijí^  b-)i;ueAí=-, 

<t)o  cu]ceA&Aix  I*]!)  ]te  a  C0I5. 

'Do  ibAjtb  piA]x  LocA  2l)e|l5e, 
lóít  A  c|t&]T)e  bo  U\]ir)  pblU'); 

jf  ]UpiA|X  LOCA  CA|t|lA, 

)]•  pó|*  2lc|tAC  1.0CA  ■C|ui]n). 

<t)o  bi  piA]'C  A]i  Loc  2t)eAfCA, 
2t)óit  A  t]ié]t  f  0|t  ^eA|tAib  piv^l ; 
2t)b<VT^b  Í  |te  A  C0I5  buAÓAcb, 
Oe'|i  bo^ib  Ai;  c-uaIac  bo  c^c. 

2l|t  Loc  tA05Ai]te  30  c]v^e, 
P|A|*c  bo  5UÍ  ccii)e  bo  bj  ; 
<t)'AiTb6eo|i)  A  b->niAi|t  ^e  pivU, 
<Do  6icccAi)i)  ]ve  A  Aitrt)  ]. 

"PuAC  <t)iiobAOii',  ló|t  A  C|i6iue, 
2l5Ar  2liiDib  flóibc  Ai)  Cbli^ITt ; 

i)0  njAJtb  "plOUl)  Ic  2^AC  AT)  L0]1), 

5c' |t  bojtb  A  i;-3oil  if  a  i;-5lcó. 


57 

pUAC  toe  A  tuftJAIt),    5c  &lAtJ, 

Le  "pioiji)  t;a  b-p]At)t)  bo  iii]z  X]  > 
^í  b-1t)i)irceA|i  50  bjtivc  buM), 

3aC  A|t  CU]|t  b'a.|t  A]|l  f'luA5A]b. 

i)0  CU]C  -piAfc  A]t  Bb<M;uA  bir)T), 
Le  li^jti)  pblt)'?  iM  c-corr)Ut)i;  c-C|tuA8 ; 
<t)ob'  TOrt^ÓA  ívft  T)-bíc  o  ija  c-cjteAf, 
3«!^  clo]6e  ]Ab  |te  pioipij  y^]t)." 

TRANSLATION. 
When  we  had  disposed  of  the  produce  of  the  chace. 
We,  the  battalions  of  the  ruddy  countenances. 
The  Fenians  of  Fionn,  marched  onward 
From  Sliabh  Truim'  to  Loch  Cuan.^ 

We  found  a  Piasts  in  the  lake  ; — 
Little  we  profited  by  being  there ; — 
We  cast  a  glance  as  we  approached. 
And  saw  its  head  was  larger  than  a  hill ! 

It  resembled  a  great  mound. 

Its  jaws  were  yawning  wide  ; 

There  might  lie  concealed,  though  great  its  fury, 

A  hundred  champions  in  its  eve-pits. 

Longer  than  any  tree  in  the  forest. 

Were  its  most  formidable  tusks  ; 

Wider  than  the  gates  of  a  city, 

Were  the  ears  of  the  serpent  that  approached  us, 

Taller  in  height  than  eight  men. 
Was  its  tail  which  was  erect  above  its  back ; 
Thicker  was  the  most  slender  part  of  its  tail, 
Than  the  forest  oak  which  was  sunk  by  the  flood  ! 

'  Sliabh  Truim,  a  mountain  in  Ulster  which  now  bears  the  absurd 
name  "  Bessy  Bell." 

2  Loch  Cuan,  the  Lough  of  Strangford  in  the  County  of  Down. 

3  The  word  Piast,  signifies  a  serpent,  snake,  or  monster.    It  has  been 
thought  best  however,  in  the  present  instance,  to  leave  it  untranslated. 


5S 

r 

When  it  saw  before  it  the  hosts. 

It  prepared  itself — and  great  was  its  fury  ; 

The  lot  fell  upon  Mac  Moirne,  without  mistake, 

To  engage  in  the  combat  with  his  heroes  and  hounds. 

Fionn.  Thou  art  not  one  of  the  Piasts  of  Eire, 

Thou  despicable  thing  without  shape  or  form  ; 
Whence  hast  thou  come  to  the  glen  ? 
Asked  Fionn  the  liberal  and  brave. 

Piast.    I  have  just  come  hither  from  Greece 

In  my  course,  till  I  reached  Loch  Cuan, 
To  demand  battle  from  the  Fenians, 
And  to  annihilate  their  hosts. 

I  have  subdued  every  land. 

Hosts  have  fallen  by  my  prowess  ; 

Unless  from  you  I  do  obtain  my  wish  (in  conflict), 

I  will  not  leave  a  remnant  of  you  alive. 

Give  me  battle  speedily, 

You  great  hosts  who  are  with  Fionn  ; 

Till  I  try  upon  you  now 

My  strength  after  crossing  the  wave. 

F.  By  thy  love  for  hospitality  relate  to  us. 

Though  great  thy  feats  and  thy  hideousness  ; 
The  history  of  thy  father  and  mother. 
Before  we  cast  our  weapons  against  thee. 

P.  An  everliving  monster  that  is  in  Greece, — 
I  shall  tell  you  without  deceit  his  usual  name  ; 
Crom  of  the  Rock,'  of  great  fame. 
Who  dwells  at  a  rock  on  the  eastern  sea. 

A  Piast  of  great  valour  but  of  hideous  aspect. 
Is  his  wife  without  fault  ; 

Few  are  the  cities  in  the  east  she  did  not  break — 
And  I  was  born  to  him  as  son. 

•  Crom  of  the  Rock.     Quere,  can  the   name  have  any  reference  to 
Crom,  the  reputed  Irish  deity  ? 


59 

I  entailed  woe  upon  every  country, 
Ard-na-g-Caih  is  truly  my  name  ; 

0  Fionn,  whose  repute  and  prowess  is  great, 

1  care  not  for  thy  hosts  or  their  arms. 

There  is  the  story  thou  diJst  demand  from  me, 
O  Fionn,  renowned  for  sword  and  arms  ; 
Come,  answer  me  in  conflict  speedily. 
Though  numerous  thy  hosts  and  thy  strength. 

Fionn  commanded,  though  hard  the  emergency. 
The  Fenians  to  meet  him  in  conflict ; 
To  repulse  him  the  hosts  advanced. 
And  they  met  from  him  a  great  captivity. 

The  Piast  attacked  our  battalions. 
And  many  of  our  chieftains  by  it  fell ; 
Great  was  our  loss  in  the  conflict. 
We  could  not  with  it  contend. 

Let  the  memory  of  the  chace  remain  on  record. 
Said  the  Piast  vigorous  and  stout ; 
We  cast  upon  it  great  showers 
Of  fire,  of  darts,  and  of  spears. 

By  it  we  were  left  weak  and  sick. 

We  gained  no  eclat  in  the  contention ; 

It  swallowed  (though  the  exertion  was  great) 

Heroes  in  mail  and  arms ! 

It  swallowed  Fionni  into  its  bowels. 
The  Fenians  of  Eire  raised  a  shout ; 
We  were  for  a  while  without  help. 
And  the  Piast  making  havoc  among  us. 

An  opening  on  each  side  of  its  body 

AVas  made  by  Fionn,  whose  mind  was  not  ill  ; 

By  which  he  let  out  without  delay 

Every  one  of  the  Fenians  it  had  swallowed. 

'  Like  Jonas,  Fionn  had  been  swallowed  by  the  monstrous  serpent, 
but  took  a  more  summary  method  of  procuring  his  release  by  cutting 
a  passage  through  its  sides.  This  may  probably  have  reference  to  the 
pagan  tradition  of  the  history  of  Jonas. 


60 

Fionn  the  liberal,  from  the  fight  he  made, 
Saved  the  hosts  at  that  time  ; 
He  liberated  us  by  the  might  of  his  hand, 
(And)  by  the  powers  of  his  victorious  dart. 

The  Fenians  all  engaged  in  the  fight, 
It  required  great  bravery  to  conquer  it ; 
They  fought,  though  hard  the  contest. 
Until  the  vital  spark  its  body  left. 

Of  all  the  Piasts  that  fell  by  Fionn, 

The  number  never  can  be  told  ; 

The  exploits  and  achievements  he  performed, 

There  is  no  person  who  can  recount. 

He  killed  the  Piast  of  Loch  Cuillinn, 
It  fell  by  Mac  Oumhaill  with  success  ; 
And  the  great  Piast  of  Binn-eadair, 
That  was  never  overcome  in  battle. 

The  other  Piast  of  Loch  Cuillinn, 
Fell  by  Mac  Cumhaill  of  the  gold  ; 
He  slew  the  Piast  of  Loch  Neagh, 
And  the  monster  of  Glen-an-smoil. 

The  Piast  of  Loch  Erne,  though  a  blue  one,  fell  by  his  hand. 
And  the  furious  Piast  of  Loch  Riathach;' 
He  slew — though  brave  their  hearts — 
A  Piast  and  Cat  at  Ath-cliatli.« 

He  slew  the  spectre'  of  Loch  Lein,* 

Great  was  the  prowess  to  undertake  the  attack  ; 

'  Loch  Riathach— l^och  Eca  in  the  county  of  Galway  on  the  banks 
of  which  is  situated  a  town  of  the  same  name.  It  is  rather  curious  tliat 
the  piasl  or  serpent  is  still  supposed  by  the  neighbouring  peasantry 
to  infest  that  lake.  Mr.  Thomas  Fox,  a  native  of  that  place,  would 
swear  that  he  saw  the  monster  more  than  once. 

3  Ath-Cliath— {Ford  of  the  Hurdles),  the  Irish  name  for  Dublin. 

3  Spectre,  is  the  most  appropriate  term  we  can  find  in  English  for 
Fuath,  though  it  may  not  quite  adequately  convey  the  meaning  of  the 
word,  Fuath  appears  to  have  been  a  sort  of  demon  incarnate  such  as 
]>uca.  bugbear  &c.,  that  consequently  was  vulnerable. 

*  Loch  Lein — the  Irish  name  for  the  Lakes  of  Killarncy. 


61 

He  slew  the  spectre  of  Drumcliabh,' 
The  spectre  and  Piast  of  Loch  Ree.s 

Fionn  of  the  noble  heart  slew. 
The  spectre  of  Glen  Ri^'he^  of  the  highways  ; 
And  every  Piast  by  the  valor  of  his  keen  blade, 
In  the  glens  of  Eire  he  annihilated. 

The  spectre  and  Piast  of  Glen-h-Arma  (Glenarni), 
Though  powerful,  Fionn  slew  ; 
Fionn  expelled  from  the  Raths, 
Every  Piast  he  went  to  meet. 

And  a  Piast  on  the  Shannon,  a  cause  of  joy, 
That  disturbed  the  happiness  of  men  ; 
He  slew  by  frequenting  the  deep  (lake). 
The  Piast  of  Loch  Ramar  of  the  conflicts. 

He  killed — great  the  destruction — 

The  monster  of  Sliabh  Guillin,'»  though  fierce  ; 

And  the  two  Piasts  of  Glen  Inny,* 

Also  fell  by  his  sword. 

There  was  a  Piast  in  Loch  Meilge,^ 
A  match  in  bravery  for  the  hand  of  Fionn  ; 
And  the  huge  Piast  of  Loch  Carra/ 
Together  with  the  monster  of  Loch  Truim. 

1  Drumcliabh,  Drumcliff — the  name  of  a  district  in  the  barony  of 
Carbury,  county  of  Sligo.    vide  note,  Book  of  Rights,  p.  130. 

*  Loch  Ree,  or  Loch  Ribh,  a  fine  lake  formed  by  the  river  Shannon 
between  Athlone  and  Lanesborough. 

3  Glen-righe  is  the  name  of  the  valley  of  the  Newry. 

<  Sliabh  Gullin  is  a  mountain  in  the  county  of  Armagli  which  termi- 
nates the  Cuailgnean  range  :  this  mountain  is  greatly  celebrated  in 
traditional  lore  as  well  as  in  Irish  manuscripts  for  its  mythic  and 
druidical  associations. 

6  Glenn  Inny  or  Eilhne — the  valley  of  the  rivci  Inny  in  the  barony 
of  Fore,  county  of  Westmeath. 

6  Loch  Meilge  or  Melvin,  an  estuary  formed  by  the  river  Drobhaois  in 
the  lower  part  of  the  county  of  Leitrim,  contiguous  to  the  county  of 
Sligo. 

'  Loch  Carra,  Gara,  or  Tauchet,  situate  in  the  barony  of  C  olavin, 
county  of  Sligo. 


62 

There  was  a  Piast  in  Loch  Masg,  i 
Who  kept  in  terror  the  men  of  Fail  (Ireland) ; 
He  slew  it  with  his  victorious  sword. 
Though  the  task  was  great  for  any  individual. 

In  Loch  Laeghaire^  there  always  was  a  Piast 
That  was  wont  to  light  fires  ; 
Despite  all  the  treacherous  means  it  used. 
With  his  arms  he  beheaded  it. 

The  monster  of  Drobhaois,  proved  in  brave  acts. 
And  the  idiot^  of  the  mountain  of  Clare  ; 
Fionn  slew  with  Mac-an-Luinn, 
Though  their  conflict  and  battles  were  dreadful. 

The  monster  of  Loch  Lurgan,*  though  active, 
By  Fionn  of  the  Fenians  it  fell ; 
It  shall  not  be  recorded  till  the  day  of  doom, 
The  destruction  he  dealt  upon  hosts. 

The  Piast  of  the  murmuring  Bann  fell. 
By  the  hand  of  Fionn  of  the  hard  conflicts  ; 
Numerous  the  losses  we  sustained  by  their  strength. 
Until  they  were  destroyed  by  Fionn. 

The  legends  which  are  still  extant  of  tlie  numerous  monsters 
supposed  to  infest  our  lakes  and  rivers,  are  the  most  numerous 
of  any  in  Irish  folk  lore ;  and  it  would  require  a  large  work 
to  do  anything  like  justice  to  this  subject.  However,  since 
the  county  of  Clare  has  been  a  classical  locality  in  Tenian 
story,  we   select  one  legend  from  "  Notes  and  Queries "  in 

'  Loch  Masg,  or  Masg — a  fine  lake  lying  between  the  counties  of  Gal- 
way  and  Mayo. 

*  Loch  Lueghaire,  now  called  Loch  Mary  ;_is  situated  in  the  parish 
of  Ardstraw,  barony  of  Strabane,  and  county  of  Tyrone.  Vide  Miscel- 
lany of  the  Celtic  Society,  p.   1G2,  noted. 

«  Idiot,  is  the  literal  translation  of  the  word  A]n)p,  but  the  being 
represented  by  tlie  name  must  not  have  been  a  mere  idiot,  but  a  gcilt 
or  some  wild  monster  bearing  some  likeness  to  the  human  form. 

*  Loch  Lurgan,  an  old  name  for  the  bay  of  Galway. 


63 

connexion    with   that  romantic  district,  as   it  bears  in  some 
degree  upon  our  text. 

«About  half  a  mile  from' the  Lake  of  Inchiquin  (some  legends  of 
which  have  already  appeared),  is  situated  the  small  lake  of  Tiarmec- 
bran;  high  limestone  cliffs  nearly  surround  it,  one  of  which  is 
crowned  with  the  picturesque  ruins  of  an  old  castle,  while  the  cliff 
immediately  opposite  has  been  occupied  by  the  eyrie  of  a  falcon  for 
many  years :  no  stream  appears  to  flow  into  or  out  of  the  lake.  A 
solitary  coot  may  generally  be  seen  floating  motionless  on  the  dark 
sullen  water,  and  a  hawk  hangs  poised  in  the  mid  air  over  it,  or 
slowly  circles  round,  uttering  a  harsh  scream  from  time  to  time  ; 
altogether,  a  more  eerie  spot  could  not  be  easily  found.  The  lake 
is  popularly  believed  to  be  unfathomable,  and  though  supposed  to 
contain  fish  of  fabulous  size,  itwould  not  be  easy  to  tempt  the  most- 
zealous  disciple  of  Izaak  Walton  amono-  the  peasantry  to  cast  a.  line 
upon  the  sullen  waters.  The  following  legend  accounts  for  the  awe 
with  which  the  lake  is  regarded  Once  upon  a  time,  Fuenmicoull 
(Fingal)  went  out,  with  his  attendant  chieftains,  to  hunt  upon  the 
heath  covered  sides  of  Mount  Callan,  famous  as  being  the  burial 
place  of  Conan,  whose  monument  with  its  Ogham  inscription  is  still 
extant  j  a  noble  hart,  snow  white,  whose  hoofs  and  horns  shone 
like  gold,  was  soon  started,  and  eagerly  did  the  chieftains  urge  their 
hounds  in  pursuit.  Hour  after  hour  passed  on,  and  still  the  deer 
with  unabated  vigour,  while  one  by  one  the  hunter  and  hound  dropped 
exhausted  from  tbe  chace, — till  none  were  left  but  FuenvicouU  aud 
his  matchless  hound,  the  snow  white  Bran  ;  and  now,  as  the  sun  was 
fast  dechning,  the  wonderous  hart  reached  the  cliff  over  the  lake 
where  the  ruins  of  the  old  castle  now  stand.  A  moment's  pause,  and 
it  plunged  into  the  lake  followed  almost  instantaneously  by  the  gallant 
hound  ;  the  moment  the  deer  touched  the  water,  it  vanished,  while 
in  its  stead  appeared  a  beautiful  lady,  seated  on  the  rippling  waves, 
and  as  the  noble  dog  rose  to  the  surface  from  its  plunge,  she  laid 
her  hand  on  his  head,  and  submerged  him  for  ever  !  and  then  dis- 
appeared. Some  relate  in  addition  that  she  inflicted  a  curse  on 
FuenvicouU  (Fionn  Mac  Cumhall).  In  memory  of  the  event,  the 
cliff,  from  which  the  dog  sprung,  is  called  Cregg  y  Bran,  while  the 
lake  and  castle  are  called  by  the  name  Tiernach  Bran,  the  Lordship 
of  Bran  ;  corrupted  in  conversation  to  Ziermacbran.  It  is  a 
curious  fact   that  the  '  machinery  '  of  this  legend  is  so  peculiarly 


64 

that  of  the  metrical  romance  (see  Partenopax  of  Blois  &c.).  Some- 
what different  versions  of  it  are  given  in  "  Miss  Brooke's  Transla- 
tions of  Irish  Poetry,"  and  in  the  spirited  translations  by  Dr. 
Drummond,  but  as  in  Clare  aloae  have  the  lake  and  cliff  obtained 
names  from  the  event,  we  may  claim  the  legend  ds  peculiar  to  that 
county." 

It  is  a  curious _fact  indeed,  as  the  recorder  of  the  above 
legend  justly  remarks,  that  the  mnchinery  of  this  legend  is 
found  elsewhere:  but  this  is  true  also  of  the  greater  number 
of  our  principal  legends,  of  which  various  local  versions  are  to 
be  found  all  over  the  country,  a  circumstance  which  strongly 
warrants  the  opinion  that  such  legends  must  have  had  their 
origin  in  some  remarkable  events  far  anterior  to  the  earliest 
date  to  which  historical  record  extends.  But  the  classical 
Clare  can  by  no  means  appropriate  the  story  of  the  metamor- 
phosis of  Fionn,  for  the  scene  is  too  accurately  described  in 
the  Lay  of  the  Hunt  of  Sliabh  Gullin  in  Ulster,  to  suffer  any 
doubt  to  remain  as  to  the  place  from  whence  this  legend  was 
originally  derived.  The  cairn  and  its  cave,  said  to  have  been 
the  house  of  the  daughter  of  Guille,  are  still  there  ;  and  the 
popular  opinion,  yet  prevailing,  is  tliat  the  druidess,  known  as 
the  Cailleach  Biorar,  (Mag  of  the  Water)  still  resides  there. 
This  cairn  on  Sliabh  Guillin  is  described  thus  in  Binus  Tokt  in 
Ireland,  p.  204  : — 

"The  cairn  which  renders  it  so  celebrated,  instead  of  being  a 
mere  rude  heap  of  stones  .  .  .  contained  a  circular  chamber, 
with  which  a  passage  under  long  flat  stones  communicated,  but  of 
what  length  this  passage  has  originally  been,  it  is  now  difficult  to 
ascertain,  as  it  is  filled  up  with  earth  and  stones,  which  obstruct  any 
further  progress  to  what  is  supposed  to  be  a  large  apartment.  The 
entrance,  now  filled  up  with  rubbish,  appears  to  have  been  covered 
with  a  roof  of  large  stones,  capable  of  supporting  a  great  weight. 
The  cairn  of  stones  which  has  covered  the  chamber  is  nearly  40  feet 
in  diameter  at  the  base.  A  little  lower  down  the  hill  and  in  front  of 
this  cairn  is  a  flat  stone  supported  by  massy  uprights." 

This  is  what  is  now  popularly  called  the  Cailleach  Biorar's 


house,  witli  which  reminiscences  of  many  an  awful  catastro- 
phe are  connected.  At  some  distance  from  the  mountain 
itself  stands  a  mountain  of  some  size,  called  Cros-shliabh- 
which  tradition  says  consists  of  the  materials  delved  by  the 
Fenians  in  seeking  the  house  of  the  enchantress,  as  detailed  in 
the  Lay  of  the  Chace  of  Sliabh  Gullin.  There  are  so  many 
mountains  in  Ireland  apparently  called  after  the  celebrated 
Cualan,  Cuillean,  Guilean,  &c.,  various  names  of  the  same 
being,  that  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  that  Mount  Callan, 
probably  one  of  those  so  called,  should  have  a  localised  tra- 
dition of  GuUin's  daughter,  the  Cailleach  Biorar,  or  Naiad  of 
the  Lake  Dagruadh,  of  Sliabh  Gullin,  and  who  would  be 
called  in  English,  the  "Water  Witch. 

It  may  not  be  unacceptable  to  the  reader  to  present  here 
another  Peuian  poem  called  "  Seilg  na  Feinne  os  cionn  Locha 
Deirg"  (The  Hunt  of  the  Fenians  above  (around)  Loch  Derg), 
in  which  the  contest  with  a  dreadful  monster  that  infested  the 
lake — a  kind  of  Irish  Minotaurus,  is  detailed.  The  poem  is  in 
the  possession  of  tlie  Honorary  Secretary  of  our  Society,  and 
runs  thus : — 

"  21  P})iXZZ,]lA]C  TT)Ó1|t  rb]C   CAlp|tO]r)1), 

2lt)  c-cuaIa  cu  "pjAijT^A  pfjiui; ; 
2I5  ^in5<^  or  ciow  LocA  Í)e]tt5, 
2t)A]t  Aeo  If  ci^c  A  c-corb-feTl5  ? 

PjAfc  b]  Ajft  hoc  At}  c-|-lé]be, 
ie'ii  cufiieAO  i)i]t  1JA  "péjrjtje  ; 
í)ív  Piece  céAí),  x)o  v]  buf  Tt7Ó, 
í)o  CU5  bíif  ]T)  Aei)  ló  ! 

O5IAC  n)0.]t  bo  b]  A5  f]o\)\'), 

hnii]"^  6uic,  A  rbAii5iot)o ; 

2iblAc  Ai)  ói]t,  Tt)AC  |ií5  3|téA5, 
í)o  CU5A6  5ló||t  o  5AC  péifc. 
5 


9lr)  C-CU3A1Ó  At)  T)í  bo't)  piA|*c, 
<Do  it^ib  2lbUc  |tTf  Ai)  b-'pbiAi?!) ; 
CAe5Acc  Iaoc,  tjo  t)]  buf  njo, 
<t)o  cu^t  cúi5ce  5AC  Aeij  ló  ! 

)t)V\r  ^1  30  b-ííA5Ai6  x]^y 

21  2lblAic  AT?  cjtocA  5^1 ; 

)X  f eAit]i  f]ij  'ijA  Aei)  Uec  lotjtj, 

i)o  tu]Z]n)  leif  A  c-conjlAijr). 

2I15  piA|*c  At)  0]6ce  fir)  5At)  biAÓ, 
CoblA  t)io|t  cioijfso^i)  At)  pbl^t) ; 
2lfi  b-ceAcc  DA  njAjbije  50  T170C, 

Cbulfl  At)|i<^6  Tt)Ó|t  A|l  At)  LOC. 

i)o  bio65  At)  pTAfc  A|p  At)  c|ta]5, 
LeiseAbAji  At)  }^blAi)t)  Cjt&At)  5iv]|t; 
jott)6A  ^eA]t  A5  bpifeAÓ  a  c|ioit)t), 
<t)e't)  lAecjXAÓ  ii)A  C|tt)cioll. 

Sill  bo  i'A\)A]C  ttjeAÓoi)  bo't)  ló, 
Bu6  l]A  ivfi  ti)A|ib  'i)A  A|i  tt)-beo; 
BuÓ  f AtbA^l  le  fluAJ  e]le, 
U^jieAfbA  ivjt  i)-5lAt)  lAec|tA6  ! 

<t)o  |*lo)5eA6  lé|  tt)AC  jtij  ^P^^Sí 
Jf  0]fit),   ce  tt)5|i  At)  béAb; 
í)o  |*Ioi5ca6  lé]  ]Ab  50  beAcc, 
feA]i  ]Y  c6Ab  A  i)-Aet)pcAcc. 

Hio|i  floi3eA6  2t)AC  Cútt)A]ll  lé], 
3©  beA5  At)  tb^lb  bo  bj  be'^  f})é]t)r); 
Jy  v]  pA]b  b^ob  5At)  bttl  CA|tc, 
2lcc  beA5ivt)  |tc  b-ucc  ift)ceAcc. 


67 

•Do  j*loi3eA6  lé]  <t)Ael3uf  ]f  'S'^M, 
'S  y-]o\)i)  rn^c  KofA  T)A  c-cort)lAt)i) ; 
)X  Cor)AT)  roAel,  fSéAÍ  r)A'|i  thajc, 
*t)éA&5eAl  póf,  Tf  "CjtéAijTnóit  C]té^c. 

21 1)  rpí  i^"5  FpW  At)  ric  ptiAp, 
jf  5AbAf  Ai)  p]Afc  A|i  aIc  ; 

2I5UI*  CUJ  COJl  50  &]AT)  fee, 
3uft  CU]|t  A  cljAb  A  T)-A]]tbe. 

2t)A]i  cot)A|tc  í)íii|ie  njAc  T'bli)')) 
^Id  TIÍ3  T^^lWe  cpTjt»  A  c-qw; 
■^113  lé|rTj  A  m-béAÍ  T)A  péjfce, 
í)o  b'é  f]i)  AX)  xít  T)eATT)-|téi5ce. 

^lfi  T)-bul  bo  í)b^ltie  't>a  cljAb, 
'S  AT)  bo  cii]rbr)e  A|i  A  \"S]^V  ', 
í)o  ]tjt)  flí5eA6  bo  ^é|Tj  ah^ac — 
B'é  n^  -^^^  cor5A|t  ior)5TbAcb  ! 

í)o  cu||i  |*é  Ajfbe  bo'r)  b'^b^l')»)» 
í)o  0)ni)  'r  ^o  TTjAc  ]tí5  5l^éA3  ; 

3t)Í0tT)  bA  beÓÓA  lt:)A  f|t), 

2lt)T)ATb  bu]T)e  bo  cuaIa. 
2li)  bA  céAb  catJAic  An^AC, 

Bb^*5A|l  3ATJ  polcj    3At)  éAbAC  ; — 

2t)Aic  bo  ceAT)i)A|6  t;a  "P^aiji^a, 
21  b-puAiit]b  A  |tiArb  ir)  ^]]i]x)\). 

TuitAf  CboiJ^l^,    TTJA]t  t)ÍVÍt  CÓJfl, 

21  rt}-bítuiT)t)  Aj)  beACAjcb  Aihrbó(|t; 
2t)A|i  i)AC  |tAib  3ítuAi3  Aift  A  ceArjt), 
MíOfl  ^AT)  leAÓb  Al|t  A  clo]3ceAW. 


68 

<^Do'r)  toe  Ai|i  b-ci'if,  A  cl&i)t]cb  ; 
2lcc  b'^Ai)  toe  í)eA|t5  a]-\i  jve  beó, 
O  A]t  r)A  pé]i;t)e  a  v-Aei)  ló. 

"Cjií  lív,  Tf  rr)í,  II*  bljAÓAii), 
í)o  bj  toe  í)eA]t5  pA  6]ArbA|i ; 
O  \ix  n)A]ibcA  'péjuije  pblUt}» 
21  feeiitirt)  ]tioc,  a  'Cb<vil5iw. 

2t)é  A5  CATjrlAnj  ^IAj^  t)A  h-lph^^x)^), 
21  Pb^cc|tAic,  OeAljiA]-  n)A|t  5|tiAr) ; 
2li)  rS^Al  i-if)  A&  ii?T)fiiD  6ib, 
jonjÓA  bu]r)e  bo  ciiaIajo. 

TRANSLATION. 

0  Patrick  the  Great,  son  of  Calphuirn, 

Hast  thou  heard  the  story  about  the  Fenians  of  Fionn  ; 
When  they  met  beside  Loch  Dearg, 
All  ready  to  join  in  the  chace  ? 

There  was  a  Piast  in  the  lake  of  the  mountain. 
That  dealt  destruction  upon  the  Fenians  ; 
To  twenty  hundred,  if  not  more, 
Did  it  deal  death  in  a  single  day  ! 

A  worthy  man  belonged  to  Fionn, — 

1  have  to  inform  thee,  O  Tailgin — 

Abhlach  of  the  gold,  son  of  the  king  of  Greece, 
Who  was  wont  to  gain  victory  over  every  Piast. 

"  Will  you  give  ought  to  the  Piast  ?" 
Asked  Abhlach  of  the  Fenians, 
Fifty  heroes  and  more  each  day. 
We  sent  to  him'  (responded  they.) 

Inform  him  he  shall  have  all  those. 

From  Ablach  of  the  fair  form ; 

For  it  is  better  do  so  than  that  one  brave  hero, 

Should  fall  by  him  in  conflict. 

'  This  piast  or  monster,  appears  to  liavc  been  of  the  masculine  kind 
there  were  also  female  monsters. 


69 

The  Piast  remained  that  night  without  food. 
The  Fenians  did  not  dare  to  sleep ; 
On  the  breaking  of  the  early  dawn  of  morning. 
He  raised  a  great  storm  on  the  waters  of  the  lake. 

The  Piast  sprang  upon  the  shore. 
The  Fenians  raised  a  mighty  shout  ; 
Many  a  man  broke  his  spear. 
Of  those  heroes  who  mustered  around. 

Before  the  noon-tide  came. 

Our  dead  were  more  than  our  living  ; 

It  would  form  another  host. 

The  number  of  genuine  heroes  we  lost. 

He  swallowed  the  son  of  the  king  of  Greece, 
And  Oisin, — though  great  the  consequence — 
He  swallowed,  without  intermisison. 
One  man  and  a  hundred  in  succession. 

Mac  Cumhaill  was  not  swallowed  by  him. 
Though  few  were  they  of  the  Fenians  who  remained ; 
Few  were  they  who  could  escape. 
And  they  were  about  taking  to  flight. 

He  swallowed  Daelgas  and  GoU, 
And  Fionn  son  of  Ros  in  the  conflict ; 
With  Conan  Mael — a  tale  of  sorrow — 
Deidgeal  too,  and  the  brave  Treanmor. 

Fionn,  thereupon,  made  a  sudden  rush. 
And  caught  the  Piast  by  the  neck ; 
He,  with  a  vigorous  exertion, 
Turned  his  bosom  upwards. 

When  Daire,  son  of  Fionn, 

Saw  the  Fenian  King  thus  engaged  ; 

He   leaped  into  the  jaws   of  the  monster; 

That  same  was  the  rash  act ! 

When  Daire  entered  his  bowels, 
'Twas  then  he  thought  of  his  dagger  ; 
And  made  a  passage  out  for  himself — . 
That  was  a  wondrous  execution  ! 


70 

He  liberated  out  of  his  entrails  the  Fenians, 
Oisin  and  the  son  of  the  king  of  Greece  ; 
A  more  vigorous  act  than  that. 
Few  men  ever  heard. 

The  two  hundred  who  crept  out, 

Were  bereft  of  hair  and  clothing ; 

All  the  benefits  conferred  on  the  Fenians  in  Eire, 

Were  very  well  earned  by  them. 

The  visit  of  Conan,  which  was  not  just. 
Into  the  entrails  of  the  monstrous  serpent ; 
Since  he  had  no  hair  on  his  head, 
A  strip  of  skin  did  not  remain  on  his  skull. 

Fionn  of  Loch  Dearg  was  the  name, 

Of  the  lake  in  the  beginning,  O  Cleric  ; 

But  the  name  of  Loch  Dearg  has  rested  on  it, 

Since  the  great  slaughter  of  the  Feniaos  iu  one  day. 

Three  days,  a  month,  and  a  year. 
Loch  Dearg  remained  under  a  curse  ; 
From  the  day  the  Fenians  of  Fionn, 
Were  slain,  I  assure  thee,  0  Tailgin. 

As  sure  as  1  weep  after  the  Fenians, 
O  Patrick,  who  shinest  like  the  sun  ; 
The  story  that  I  now  relate  to  thee. 
Has  been  heard  by  many  a  man. 

Thus  we  can  clearly  see  that  aquatic  monsters  were  not  con- 
fined to  the  mythology  of  the  Greeks  and  Eomans  alone  :  the 
stories  told  by  the  peasantry  of  the  existence  of  such  monsters 
in  all  our  lakes,  estuaries,  and  rivers,  which  are  still  believed 
to  infest  many  places,  leave  little  doubt  that  some  sort  of  a 
serpent  Cultus  once  prevailed  in  this  island.  These  monsters 
are  said  to  have  been  druidical  creatures  called  into  existence 
by  the  cabalistic  arts  of  our  ancient  druids. 

Now  since  we  find  that  the  Fenians  constructed  a  chariot, 
or  rather  a  litter,  to  carry  their  chief  to  the  residence  of  the 
druidess,  it  may  not  be  oul  of  place  to  say  something  upon 
that  subject. 


71 

The  Irish  chariot,  like  the  Esseda  of  the  Britons,  appears  to 
have  been  used  in  war.  The  Irish  name  is  cAjtbAc,  which 
seems  to  import  a  mode  of  conveyance  by  land  as  the  b^cc 
was  that  used  by  water.  In  the  Tain  Bo  Chuailgne  we  are  in- 
formed that  chariots  were  used  by  Cuchullainn  so  early  as  our 
common  era,  and  probably  were  used  long  before  that  period, 
and  in  a  MS.  account  of  the  great  battle  fought  on  the  plains 
of  Muirtheimne,  or  county  of  Louth,  various  descriptions  of 
the  war  chariot  of  Cuchullainn  occur.  The  following  extracts 
are  selected  in  elucidation.  But  first  it  is  necessary  to  show 
what  the  British  chariots  were,  according  to  Csesar's  account 
of  them,  and  the  mode  in  which  they  were  used  : — 

"  Genus  hoc  est  ex  essedis  pugnse  ;  pi-imo  per  oranes  partes  pere- 
quitant,  et  tela  conjiciunt,  atque  ipso  terrore  equorum,  et  strepitu 
rotarum,  ordines  plerumque  perturbant,  et,  quum  se  inter  equitum 
turmas  insinuaverint,  ex  essedis  desiliunt,  et  pedibus  proeliantur, 
AurigiE  interim,  paullatim  ex  proelio  excedunt,  atque  ita  currus  col- 
locant,  ut,  si  illi  a  multitudine  hostium  premantur,  expeditum  ad 
suos  receptum  habeant.  Ita  mobilitatem  equitum,  stabilitatem  pedi- 
tum  in  prasliis  prsestant,  ac  tantum  usu  quotidiano  et  exercitatione  effi- 
ciunt,  uti,  in  declivi  ac  prsecipiti  loco,  incitatos  equos  sustinere,  et 
per  temonem  percurrere,  et  in  Jugo  insistere,  et  inde  se  in  currus  ci- 
tissime  recipere,  consuerint."     I)e  Bella  Gall.  Lib.  4,  Cap.  xxxiii. 

The  manner  in  which  they  fight  from  their  chariots  is  this  :  in 
the  first  place  they  drive  round  to  all  quarters,  and  cast  their  jave- 
lins, and  by  the  unusual  terror  caused  by  the  horses,  and  the  loud 
noise  of  the  wheels,  they  used  generally  cast  the  ranks  into  disorder. 
And  having  succeeded  in  working  themselves  in  between  the  cavalry, 
they  jump  out  of  their  chariots  and  fight  on  foot.  Their  charioteers 
in  the  mean  time,  retire  a  short  distance  from  the  place  of  engage- 
ment, and  there  so  station  themselves  with  the  chariot,  that,  in  case 
they  are  overpowered  by  the  forces  of  the  enemy,  they  may  alFord  a 
safe  retreat  to  their  friends.  So,  in  battle,  they  act  with  the  swift- 
ness of  cavalry,  and  the  steadiness  of  infantry  ;  and  by  constant 
experience  and  practice  become  so  expert,  that  they  are  able  even 
on  a  declining  or  sloping  ground  to  stop  their  horses  in  full  gallop, 
and  quickly  and  expertly  manage  and  turn  them,  run  along  the  pole. 


1-Z 

and  stand  on   the  beam  of  the  yoke,  and  from  thence  spring  nimbly 
again  into  the  chariot. 

The  war  chariots  of  the  Irish,  unquestionably,  resembled  in 
some  manner  those  of  the  ancient  Britons.  Sammes  in  his  JBri- 
tannica  Antiqua  {p.  120,  Lond.  MDCLXXVI),  treating  of 
the  war  chariots  of  the  Britons,  says  : — 

"  As  for  the  names  of  the  chariots  they  fought  in,  they  are  clearly 
Phccnician,  as  Benna,  Carrus  or  Carnun,  Cuvinrs,  Essedum,  Rheda, 
and  so  it  is  but  reasonable  to  think,  primitively  were  introduced  by 
them  ;  the  Grecians  added  and  altered  them  according  to  the  custonie 
of  their  country,  for  one  sort  they  called  Petoritum,  from  its  four 
■wheels,  and  of  the  ordinary  Rheda  they  made  their  Epireda,  I  suppose 
with  two  stories  in  it  to  carry  the  more  men." 

If  then,  according  to  this  veracious  author,  the  names  of 
the  chariots  of  the  ancient  Britons  were  derived  from  the 
Pheniciau  language,  it  is  more  than  probable,  that  the  chariot 
itself,  as  well  as  its  name,  had  been  introduced  by  the  Pheni- 
cians,  who  unquestionably  formed  early  settlements  in  Britain 
and  Ireland — The  war  chariots  of  the  Irish  were  armed  like 
those  of  the  Britons.  Sammes  (p.  1:20)  describing  the  war 
chariots  of  the  latter  says  : — 

"  The  Waggons  and  Chariots  they  thus  fought  in,  were  exceedingly 
well  harnessed  and  armed,  for  at  both  ends  of  the  axletrees  they 
fastened  hooks  and  scythes,  so  that  driving  furiously  into  the  enemies 
battle,  they  made  whole  lanes  of  slaughtered  men,  the  scythes  cutting 
them  in  the  middle  who  did  not  give  speedy  way,  and  such  as  escaped 
were  caught  up  with  the  hooks,  which  were  placed  for  that  purpose, 
so  that  hanging  upon  them  they  were  miserable  spectacles." 

But  perhaps  no  better  descrijition  of  the  Irish  war  chariot 
can  be  given  than  tliat  found  in  the  Tain  Bo  Chuailgne  (p. 
121  MS.),  where  Cuchulainn  is  described  as  marching  forward 
against  the  Conacian  forces  :  — 

"  'Do  lit;5  ]f  Aij  3-CAiibAc  fA0]i6<v  coija  |*í^iriic  ]A|iT)u)6e, 
coi;a  ]:AobiiA  cAijAjOe,  coija  bocAi;A,  coi)A  bioiiCfiAi)bA|b, 
couA  CA]|tbnc   u]a6,  coi;a    ^Ioaj*  u|i|:Iaico,  coi^x  cA|iti)|óe 


73 

3<Neice,  bo  b]&n*  A|ft  peAitr^ui'^,  ocuf   iaIUv,  ocur  picji-ib,         C  ^^ 

OCU|*  polOTT)T)A  &0T)  CA]lbAC  T*1')-" 

He  (Cuchullainn)  sprang  into  his  noble  chariot  yoked  to  his 
horses  with  its  iron  harness,  with  its  l<een  edged  weapons,  with  its 
bosses,  with  its  torturing  spikes,  with  its  heroic  weapons,  with  its 
elegant  trappings,  with  its  hooking  nails  attached  to  its  axles,  and 
to  the  thongs  of  its  harness,  the  warlike  weapons  and  ornaments  of 
that  chariot. 

There  were  other  chariots,  no  doubt,  used  for  pleasure  and 
comfort,  as  well  as  for  war.  When  Cuchullainn  came  to  Dun 
Mac  jSTeachtain,  near  the  Boyne,  he  ordered  his  charioteer  to 
prepare  the  place  in  his  chariot  where  he  might  retire  to  rest. 
These  may  have  been  of  a  similar  construction  to  those  of  the 
Britons  called  "Covini"  as  Sammes  states.  "These  sort  of 
chariots  were  called  Covini,  and  in  -the  British  tongue  at 
this  day,   Cowain,  signifies  to  carri/  in  a  waggon"  (p.  1£0). 

Perhaps  it  resembled  the  Essedum  in  some  respects,  as  des- 
cribed by  Sammes.  "The  Essedum}  called  by  the  PIicBnicians, 
TIassedan,  by  the  GreeJcs  Sar/vji,  was  another  sort  of  a  chariot 
which,  I  believe  carried  no  scythes  or  hooks,  in  which  were 
only  armed  men"  (p.  120). 

And  again  (Vide  Tain  Bo  Chuailgne  MS.  p.  72). 

"  ]x  atíjIa  AT)  ^r)  A  &ubAi]tc  Oilioll  |te  "peAjtsA^,  '  ]x  njAcc- 
t)AÓ  ocuf  ■\x  iot)5i)A6  TT7Óft  \]on)X^,  A  "pbeAitSAir/  •<^T^  1*^>  *^ 

luAf  ]\Ó  50]T)]U5A  AT)  CeAC|tA|t  bO  b]  |lOtt)U|T)t).'      '  Ba6  CÓftA 

8u]c,^  A]t 'peA|t3Af,  ']0i)5T)ATr)  bo  óéAijArb  urt)  at)  z]  bo  ceA|*5 
A1)  5AbAl  but)  bA]i]t  b'AOT)  béiórf)  t)0  be  i^t)  ocu|*  at)  t]  |t6  be^t), 
ociif  ]tó  piAC,  ocuj*  jtó  ^0Tlf5e;  ocuf  cue  |toc  a  T)-u|tcA]|i  bj 
o  b-b^T^cA|t  A  CA|tbA]c  b']r)t)e  aoi)  liiirfje  co  t)-beACA]5e  CA]|t 

A  biV  b-C|tlA1)  A  b-CAlrbAlT)   CO  T)<\.C  b-pu]l  AC  AOt)  CJtjAT)  UA]* 

CAltT)Aii)  b],  ocu]'  T)AC  cocu]lc  bo  |i]T)T)e  |to]n)pe,  ac  cfte 
5lAr  leA5cuib  cloc  yio  v-\o\)x\)\x]^q  y  ociif  }x  Z^^X 
b'^eAjXA^b  6]jt|0t)t)  ceACc  cA]t  at)   ivc   fo,  50  b-cujA  T;eoc 

•  Vide  Caesar's  Commentaries,  Lib.  IV. 


74 

b|b  A  r}]oy  ]  lé  b-IOUe  aot)  l^irne  Arbiql  |ió  cu||if|orb  fior  Í-' 
')r  bi\|i  rt)u]t;cijtT;e  6u]Cf],  a  7^b^<'^Ti3<'^ir/  *^^  ^l)eA6b ;  ' ocu^ 
rAbA]|i  Ai)  5Ab<v]l  ÓúiTjr;  bo  lin^i  At)  ivc/  ''Cu5A]6e  CA^ibAC 
cu5An7/  A|i  "peAjtjAf.  'Cu5Ab  CA]ibAc  ciii3e.  jA|t  |*|t)  cu5 
7^eAyt5uf  feibrn  |:íoftlíiib]jt  ^roft  fAi)  T)-5AbA]l  50  T)-beA|tt)A 
n7iOT)bnuA]t)  ocui*  rn]Ovcorrj^-\]\t:  bo't)  CAjtbAc  ui}.  'Tl^u^AiOe 
CAjtbAC  i)-0|le  cuSATT)?'  A|i  J^eA^f^uif.  "Cu^Ab  CA^xbAc  e^le 
cui5e,  5u]t  b|i]]*  fó  at?  5-céAbi)A  é  eibiji  c|ie]c  ocuf  61111)5, 

OCU|*  cliVjl,  OCUf  ]tOC.      CjA  b-pujl  AT)!)  AC  AjtH)  A  jlOlbeAbAjt 

feAcc  5-CA|tbAic  beA5  bo  cA|ibA]C  Cbor)t)occA^  bo  |tii)i)e 
peA]t5Af  TT7]0i)biiuAi)  b^job  u]le  ocixy  v]  CU5  At)  5AbAil  Af  a 
ry-ini.  '  l-eAi5  Af  a  'pl)eA|t5\i]*  ?'  a|i  2t)eAbb,  '  t)iv  b|t] |-  cA|vbAic 
i^ji  rr)U]t)c]|i  t)i  bu|*  n)6,  ocuf  rt)ut)A  beACA  A]|t  i)a  fluAJAib- 
f]  bo  it]fiott)Aoi|'  UUb  5iif  At)  cjtacfo,  ocuf  bo  be^c  ion)A& 
bjtAi5be  ocuf  bóc^]t)ce  l]!)!)/  <Do  éAccAti)A||t  a  t)í  uaji) 
i)-be]t)ibf]  I'll)  .1.  b'pAi*co5A  ociif  bitDpumeAC  ai)  c-]*Iuai3 
cot)A  ]toi5ceic  UlAb  Ai*  A  5-ceAi*,  ocny  50  b-qubiiAib  cac 
6{i]r)V  wn?  At)  CA|ib  ocui*  A5  cofi)AtT)  a  b-civt)A  f'ltii)!).  '"Cu- 
5A]be  Ti)o  cAjtbAC  felt)  CU5A11)?'  A|x  peAitsuf.    Cu3a6  lAitit- 

Ati)  A  CAItbAC  50  peAllSAl*  At)  fit),  OCUf  ceA5Ab  ]Ot1)0|t|tA 
At),    CU5  fUlltl)t)  filtt)eAltCtT)A]t  fiATtjlivibiii    AH    Al)    1)-5AbAll^ 

t)ioit  bleic  ocuf  t)ioft  ti)ioi)iii5e  |toc  t)o  fot)t)A  t)A  peAixcAi* 

(?  l^eAltj-Ab)    bo'l)    CA|lbAC,    AC    Sé'jt    bú    CAlttíA    Clt|tACA     bo- 

•puiilAi5ce  fiof  Al)  5AbAl,  h]  bo  i)eAftcri)uiiie  At)  iii5rt)ílíbe, 
.1.  At)  cójib  eAi*Ait5uii)e,  ociii*  At)  b|toicleAC  bjobbA,  ocuf  At) 
ceAi)i)  co]*bA5A,  ocuf  At)    cio|tbu5A  rtjoit  fliiAije,   ociii*  At) 

CAlt)bcAll  A5bAt)CA,    OCuy  At)  CÍVCAfAC    n)01XCACA,    30    &-CU5 

A  i)ior  b'pAit)t)e  Aot)UitT)e  ai)  JAbAil  50  |iAt)Ac  Aiblir)i)e  a 
5UAlAt)i)A  OCUI"  CU5  A  Uiti)  OiliU  '].  2iy  A  bAicle,  feuCAf 
Oilioll  uitfiA,  ocuf  A  búbAijtc,  *  ii*  tT)óibe  n)0  ceifc  ocuf 

n)'uAtt)Alt)  ]t|AJ*  At)  b-fCAlt  |tO  fAlC  At)    3AbAll    fO    COt)A  AOt) 

buiUc  ocuy  ]ió  beA)i)  a  but)  bAit|i.'  Ocuf  ito  3Ab  p'eAit3ur 
felt)  A5  Acri)olAb  Cbot)3ulAii)t),  50  t)-bubAiitc  At)  Iaoi. 


75 

"  2lcíV  |*Ut)T)  At)  l)-5<\bAl  T)-5luA]ri, 

3o  Ti^li^  CucuIa]T)I)  c|íua]6  ; 
3u|t  f:ív5bAÓ  foi|v  uile  pft]A  Tjeoc, 
Ceicjte  ceAT)T)A]b  có|rbceAc. 

Jf  beAjib  T)í  COT)  C1U3PA  ua]&, 
Re  b-AOT)|:eAít  cuftACA  c|tuAi6  ; 
C]A  |tOT)  pa3bA6  A]fl  ceAT)  ceAj*, 

tlívji  ^il  cfiu  rn|C  A  leAC  CTjeAj*. 

2t)Af|t5  jtACAf  AT)  |'IuA5Ú6a, 

So]|i  A]|t  ceATjt)  í)ot)t)  CbuA]l5r)e  ; 
BiA5Aib  CU|tAl6lb  AS^  jilO^, 
po  T)]rb  clo]6irb  CbwcullAii)T). 

MA]t  bA  T)Af5A  AT)  CA|tb  CjtéAT), 

U.TT}  A  TTJ-b^AjO  COrbftAC  AjlTT)  T)-5ettft  ; 

2l]t  roc]tA6  clo]5t)e  5AC  C|T)r>, 

5bul  3^0  AlCTtje  TJ-6]|T1T)T)." 

It  was  thus  that  Oilioll  addressed  Feargus  :  "  It  is  a  matter  of 
great  surprise  and  wonder  to  me,  O  Feargus,"  said  he,  *'  how  quickly 
the  four  who  went  before  us  have  been  wounded."  "  You  should 
feel  much  more  surprised  at  him  who  lopped  off  the  forked  billet  at 
top  and  end  with  one  stroke,  than  at  that ;"  replied  Feargus  ;  "at 
the  man  who  cut,  fashioned,  strangely  formed,  and  cast  it  from  the 
hinder  part  of  his  chariot  with  the  power  of  one  hand,  so  that  two 
thirds  of  it  sunk  into  the  earth,  and  only  one  third  of  it  remains 
above  the  earth,  and  who  did  not  dig  the  ground  to  place  it  so,  but 
drove  it  through  rocks  of  green  stone  !  The  men  of  Eire  are  bound 
under  a  geas  (religious  penalty),  as  they  pass  by  this  atfi  fford),  that 
one  of  them  shall  pull  it  up  with  the  p(<wer  of  one  arm,  the  same  as 
that  by  which  it  has  been  so  placed."  "  You,  O  Feargus,  belong  to 
our  people,"  said  Meidhbh,  "  therefore  fetch  us  the  forked  billet 
from  the  middle  of  the  ford  ?''  Fetch  me  a  chariot  ?"  said  Feargus. 
A  chariot  was  accordingly  provided  for  him.  Feargus  then  made 
a  very  powerful  exertion  to  extricate  the  forked  billet,  so  that  he 
cracked  and  broke  the  chariot  into  small  pieces  on  the  occasion. 
'*  Bring  me  another  chariot  ?"  demanded  Feargus  ;  another  chariot 


70 

was  brought,  but  he  broke  it  in  a  similar  manner,  together  with  the 
body,  harness,  beam  and  wheels.  It  so  happened  that  seventeen 
chariots  belonging  to  the  men  of  Connacht  were  on  the  spot  ;  and 
Feargus  broke  them  all  into  small  pieces,  yet  he  was  unable  to  ex- 
tricate the  forked  billet  out  of  its  place  in  the  ford.  "  Give  over, 
O  Feargus,"  cried  Meidhbh,  "  and  break  no  more  of  the  chariots  be- 
longing to  our  people  ;  and  if  you  did  not  belong  to  our  host  we 
would  have  overran  Ulster  before  this  time,  and  we  would  capture 
many  prisoners  and  take  large  preys  of  cattle — I  well  know  how 
that  could  be  accomplished,  namely,  by  concentrating  and  stopping 
the  forces  until  Ulster  recovered  from  its  dread,  when  they  would 
offer  us  battle  for  their  bull,  and  defend  their  kine."  "  Bring  me 
my  own  chariot,"  cried  Feargus.  His  own  chariot  was  accordingly 
brought.  He  made  a  very  powerful  and  mighty  exertion  to  extricate 
the  forked  billet,  yet  neither  a  crack  or  a  break  was  inflicted  on 
the  wheels,  or  the  body,  or  the  shafts  of  the  chariot ;  and,  though 
the  forked  billet  had  been  strongly,  deeply,  and  fast  placed  in  its 
position,  yet  so  superior  was  the  strength  of  the  royal  champion,  the 
sledge  of  tumult,  the  inimical  agitator,  the  unsparing  hewer  of  the 
heads  of  numerous  hosts,  the  flaming  lamp,  and  the  gigantic  victor 
of  great  battles,  that  he  extricated  with  one  hand  the  forked  billet, 
and  having  raised  it  parallel  with  his  shoulder,  gave  it  into  the  hands 
of  OilioU.  OilioU  thereupon  examined  it,  and  said,  "  great  are  my 
doubts,  and  wonder  how  one  man  could  place  this  forked  billet  in 
its  position  with  one  cast,  as  well  as  how  he  could  lop  it  off  at  top 
and  bottom  by  one  stroke."  Feargusbegan  to  praise  CuchuUainn 
and  composed  this  Lay  : — 

"  There  is  the  neat  forked  billet. 

Made  by  Cuchulainn  the  strong  ; 

Though  alone,  he  is  supei*ior  to  all. 

To  the  four  renowned  heads  (chieftains). 

It  is  true  no  victory  shall  be  won  from  him. 

By  a  single  man,  howsoever  warlike,  and  brave  ; 

Though  he  is  now  made  subject  to  fear. 

No  youth  ever  drew  blood  from  his  side. 

Woe  to  those  who  join  the  foray  eastwards. 

To  capture  Donn  Cuailgne  ; 

Heroes  shall  taste  the  sharp  point 

Of  the  venomous  sword  of  CuchuUainn. 


77 

The  great  bull  shall  not  be  had  cheap, 
For  whom  a  battle  with  sharp  weapons  shall  be  fought ; 
On  account  of  the  mangling  of  each  warrior's  head, 
Every  tribe  in  Eire  shall  weep." 

Like  the  Boadicea  of  the  Britons,  Meidlibh,  the  heroic 
Amazon  of  Connacht,  used  to  ride  in  her  war  chariot  accom- 
panied by  a  respectable  retinue,  as  we  learn  from  the  Tain  Bo 
Chuailgne  : — 

"  jf  attjIa  a  6|ri)i5itTb  ^eiób  ocuf*  a  CAjtbAC  i^u^jce  'i)a 
b-AeT)A|i,  ocuf  6iv  cAjtbAC  |toirope,  ocuf  6\  cAjtbAC  jija 
blAi5,  ocuf  oil  cAjtbAc  ceACcAjt  A  Óí^.  cAeb,  ocuy  a  CAjibAc 

pé]T)  eACOftltA." 

The  mode  in  which  Meidhbh  used  to  march  was  thus  : — She  went 
alone  in  her  own  chariot,  having  two  chariots  before  her,  two  cha- 
riots behind  her,  and  two  chariots  on  each  side  of  her. 

The  war  chariots  of  the  ancient  Britons  appear  to  have  been 
drawn  by  two,  four,  five,  or  six  horses ;  but  we  find  that  Cu- 
chullainn's  chariot  was  always  drawn  by  two  horses,  namely, 
the  Dubhfhaelind  and  Liathmacha  only.  It  is,  however,  very 
probable  that  more  than  two  horses  were  sometimes  yoked, 
since  we  find  in  Tain  Bo  Chuailgne,  that  when  Meidhbh  wished 
to  induce  one  of  her  chieftains  to  engage  Cuchullainn  in  single 
combat,  she  promised  him,  among  other  rewards,  a  chariot 
of  peculiar  construction  to  which  many  horses  could  be  yoked ; 
"  ocuj*  CAjtbAC  ce]t]ie  ]*eAcc  c-conj^M"  (a  chariot  of  four 
times  seven  yokes).  A  chariot  of  this  description  must  have 
been  that  used  by  royal  and  otherwise  highly  privileged  per- 
sons only. 

The  next  account  we  have  of  chariots  in  authentic  docu- 
ments is  that  found  in  the  Liber  Hymnorum  of  the  Ancient 
Church  of  Ireland,  edited  by  the  learned  and  indefatigable 
Irish  Archffiologist,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Todd,  of  Trinity  College,  for 
the  Irish  Archaeological  and  Celtic  Societies,  in  which  the  fol- 


78 

lowing  notice  of  chariots  in  the  time  of  St.  Patrick  occurs. 
This  extract  is  taken  from  the  Speckled  Book. 

" )t)  tAi)  cftA  bo]  SechrxvU  oc  bet)Ati7  it)b  ]n)rvn]t)-y],  ]y 
Ai)b  bo  itAÍA  oeí)Acb  bo  bétjArr)  h-1  uA|t]tAb  SechiMlU,  co 
t)-becbur  o   Secbo<vU  bjA  zA)^^eyc    -|    v)    befttjAb   pAnt. 

tuib  SecblJAll  pOil  A  All*  lAjtnT)  T  CllA|XCAlb  A  UtTJA  CO  ^]A 

cofto  flu]C  1^  caIuh?  .;c.   co]|ipciu,  ]]].  bjb,  curt)  fu]f  equ]- 
r]buf,  ec  cecejt]  jt)  pu^An?  ejieitutjc." 

Now,  at  the  time  when  Sechnall  was  composing  this  hymn,  it  hap- 
pened that  a  fair  was  about  to  be  held  at  Sechnall's  place,  and  Sech- 
nall went  to  prohibit  it,  and  it  was  not  done  so  for  him.  Sechnall 
then  returned  back,  and  raised  his  hands  to  God,  and  the  earth 
swallowed  up  thirteen  chariots  of  them,  cum  suis  equitibus,  et  cjeteri 
in  fugam  exierunt. 

And  again  (p.  29)  it  is  stated  that  Patrick  drove  his  chariot 
over  Sechnall,  but  that  God  raised  the  ground  around  him 
that  he  should  not  be  injured, 

"  <t)0  ]tAC  C]tA  PacjIAJC    ]t)     CAjlpUC    CA]]t]f,    *]     CUA|tCA]b 

<D|A  ]t)  TAlrfju]!?  ]rnn)Q  blUC  -]  ]vbe  co  ija  e|icoc]3  ^^" 

Patrick,  however,  drove  the  chariot  over  him,  but  God  raised  the 
ground  around  him  hinc  et  inde,  that  he  should  not  be  injured. 

The  CAjt  of  the  Irish  seems  to  have  been  a  sort  of  vehicle 
without  wheels  (jtocA),  though  wheels  were  attached  to  the 
aTicient  chariots,  as  we  find  by  the  extracts  already  quoted. 
The  cAfi  x\ei^rr)V^\),  or  sliding  car,  of  our  country  was  a 
disgrace  to  civilisation ;  there  are  still  to  be  seen  several 
specimens  of  this  very  uncouth  and  clumsy  machine  in  remote 
country  districts;  it  had  no  wheels.  The  custom  formerly 
prevalent  of  yoking  cattle  to  ploughs  and  cars,  called  f  AfcocA|*, 
by  fastening  their  tails  to  the  instrument,  was  certainly  very 
inhuman  :  but  it  was  once  so  general  that  an  act  of  parliament 
was  found  necessary  for  the  suppression  of  this  brutal  mode  of 
treatment,  which  could  not  otherwise  be  put  down.  The  Irish 
CA|i  or  cAjtbAc  must  have  also  been  used  for  travelling  purposes, 


79 

and  have  served  sometimes  for  a  lodging-place  at  night,  like 
the  ccfcxl»  of  the  Scythian  nomades ;  since  we  find  in  the 
Tain  Bo  Chuailgne  (page  87),  that  Cuchullainn,  when  he  came 
to  Dun  Mac  Neachtain  Sceine,  near  the  river  Boyne,  caused 
his  charioteer  to  prepare  a  place  of  repose  for  him  in  his 
chariot : — 

"  LocAji  fiOTDpA  50  i)ui5e  Ai)  but) ;  cA|tbliT)5eof  At)  njAc 
beA3  Af  AT)  CA|ibAC  ^0|t  x^V  pAicce  ;  ]x  att)Ia  bo  b]  ^Aicce 
AT)  buit>  T]V  "I  cóiitce  ^A|tCA  -|  16  (AttA^Dr)  it)a  Z]rnc]ol\  .i. 
^6  t)iA8ACAr,  -|  f5|tiobAb  ]x  ^i)  ^^  1C]V  bA  jtAÓ  qA  be  qACpA 
boT)  ^A^cce  bo  n^A  5A]r5]ACAC  4v  seAf  bo  5Ar)  ceAcc  uaca 

5  COn)]tAC  b'lJl|tltA6    Aljt    luce    At)    bú|1).       teA5A]*    At)    Tt)AC 

beA5  AT)  r'o5Arf),  *]   CU5  a  6a  lA]tt)  ^ta't)  c-co||ice  co  tja 

Via6  5U|t  cui|t  ir  ^^  M^^  Í c"iT^ir  <^^  5ioii<^  r^n- 

5ATt)t)A  AT)  cAjtbAic  ííA0|,-|  cujceAf  At)  n)AC  beA5  Tt)A  C0IIA3 
^o|t  f  AT)  b^Aicce." 

They  proceeded  onward  toward  the  Dun.  The  Mac  Beag  (Cu- 
chullainn) alighted  from  his  chariot  on  the  green.  This  green  was 
then  thus  arranged,  namely,  there  was  a  pillar-stone  placed  upon  it ; 
it  had  an  iron  hoop  around  it,  that  is,  the  hoop  of  chivalry  ;  and  it 
was  inscribed  on  the  hoop  that  it  was  a  geas  incumbent  on  any  per- 
son who  had  a  pretence  to  knighthood,  that  he  should  not  depart 
from  the  green  without  demanding  single  combat  from  the  inmates 
of  the  Dun.  Mac  Beag  read  the  Ogham  inscription,  and  then 
grasped  his  arms  around  the  pillar-stone  together  with  its  hoop,  and 

cast  it  from  his  arms The  charioteer  arranged  the  jaa/Zei  of  the 

chariot,  and  the  Mac  Beag  laid  himself  down  to  repose  on  the  green. 

It  is  uncertain  whether  the  chariot  here  described  was  one 
of  a  different  construction  from  the  war  chariot ;  but  whether 
or  not,  we  generally  read  of  the  chariot  as  being  used  for  the 
purposes  of  war,  like  that  of  the  ancient  Britons. 

The  Essedum  of  the  Britons  appears  to  have  been  used 
solely  for  martial  purposes;  and  the  CA]ibAc  of  the  ancient 
Irish  was  also  used  in  battle,  as  we  find  in  the  MS.  of  the 
great  onslaught  on  Maigh   Muirtheimne,    that   Cuchullainn, 


80 

accompanied  only  b}'  liis  chiirioteer,  Rian  Gablira,  was  wont  to 
sally  through  the  ranks  of  his  opponents,  and  always  succeeded 
in  making  a  great  havoc  among  their  troops.  It  is  probable 
that  the  Irish  war  chariots  were  armed  hke  those  of  the  Britons. 

It  has  been  previously  observed  that  our  Faery  mythology 
is  the  most  interesting  of  any  in  Europe  :  we  have  already 
spoken  briefly  of  the  belief  in  the  Leithprogau,  the  Geancanach, 
and  the  Clouricean,  and  pointed  out  the  beautiful  and  useful 
worale.  This  superstition  was,  no  doubt,  derived  from  the 
east,  where  it  was  very  prevalent  in  the  olden  time,  and  where 
it  still  retains  much  of  its  hold  on  the  popular  mind. 

Although  the  narrow  limits,  within  which  we  are  forced  to 
confine  our  notice  of  this  subject,  prevent  us  from  doing 
more  than  glancing  at  it,  yet  even  a  very  superficial  account 
of  some  of  the  supernatural  beings  of  our  Faiiry  land,  may  be 
better  than  total  silence ;  since  they  are  alluded  in  the  text 
of  the  present  work.  Two  of  the  most  remarkable  are  the 
Leannan  Sighe  and  the  Badhbh  (pron.Bawv). 

The  Leannan  Sighe,  was  a  familiar  spirit  that  was  wont  to 
attend  and  befriend  the  ancient  Irish  champions,  especially  in 
cases  of  emergency  when  human  aid  was  totally  inadequate  to 
afford  relief.  The  Leannan  Sighe  was  the  Irish  Genius;  and 
this  mysterious  being  used  to  aj)pear  to  the  person  whom  it 
favored,  in  the  shape  of  one  of  the  opposite  sex.  But  warriors 
were  often  aided  by  beings  who  assumed  the  appearance  of 
the  male  sex.  This  we  learn  from  the  old  document  so  fre- 
quently quoted.  When  CuchuUainn  engaged  Ferdia  his  friend, 
who  was  instigated  by  the  queen  of  Connacht  to  try  his  fortune 
in  single  combat  with  the  Ultonian  chief  at  Ardee,  two  of 
those  beings  assisted  Cuchulainn. 

"'  Í)a]i  l]ort)  A  Cb«ciilUii)t/,  ol  1*6, '  |to  cu]]!  Ai)  CAcrT)]leA6 
Ariv  c-AJAÓ  cu,  An)uil  cujitcA]*  beAi)  a  n)AC.  Ko  rijoAil  cii, 

Arbuil  TTJClleA]*  TT)UlllOI^1)  b|lA]C  |10  C|tUAl6.      Ko  C|tOA]-&A  CU, 

Arbu]l   citcAfbAf   jtocAib  ori)i;A.     Ko  cu)bitCA6  ai)  |.*eA]i  cu, 


SI 

ceAJAjb  |•eAb^c  ^o  iv]^)-ecdcA ;  cotjAC  b-^iiil  bo  Ólíiije  t)o 
bo  6uaI  |ie  sojle  tjó  ^e  5^1  f5e  30  bjtuitjoe  At)  bfiivcA  ^3111* 
At)  beACA  ;  A  f  |0|i|XAicce  f  iobcA]t|iA/'  ol  LA015.  CC^jr)  Bo 
ChuAil3t)e,  MS.  p.  13S.) 

"  Methinks,  Cuchullainn,"  said  he  (Ferdia)  "  that  the  warriors  who 
are  with  you  put  you  forward  just  as  a  mother  would  her  son,  other- 
wise I  would  grind  you  down  as  mill  grinds  malt, — I  would  press 
you  down  as  the  wheel  crushes — Fear  (dia)  would  bind  you  as  close 
as  the  bark  binds  the  tree — I  would  put  you  to  flight  as  the  hawk 
does  the  smaller  birds,  so  that  you  would  have  no  claim  or  preten- 
sion to  deeds  of  warfare  or  heroism  for  ever  after ;  thou  murky 
diminutive  fairy  !"  exclaimed  Laoi. 

These  words  of  Terdia,  when  he  found  that  CuchuUainn  was 
more  than  his  match  in  the  struggle,  implied  that  he  well 
knew  that  he  was  more  than  CuchuUain's  match  if  the  latter 
had  not  been  aided  by  some  supernatural  power.  Laoi,  the 
charioteer  of  CuchuUainn,  retorts,  and  accuses  I'erdia  himself 
of  being  assisted  by  fairies. 

And  again  (p.  139,  same  L'S),  we  find  Ferdia  speaking 
much  more  plainly  on  the  same  subject. 

"2l3Uf  ]io  5A]b  "peiab^A  ^a^i  ]•]})  poft  a  bAilc  b|iAC  béitr»- 

^Ot^rjA,  A3U|*  po|i    A    CUll-b&]tt7pi)t)A    rt7Ó|tA    ^Aiít.       Ko    ftt)U- 

A]T)i6  CucbuUAir)t)  A  fíc-cív]]tbe  cúrbACCACA  bo  co]3eAcc 
bix  co|*t)A,  A3uf  A  6e]f3iobAl  bA  óíbeAi)  ai)  cat;  bA  b-o^l^c 
Ó0  ]]•  AT)  5-coTblAt)t).  ]y  AT)i)  f]i)  bo  |i]Acc  i)oilb  A3U]* 
jOTibojlb  b'^u]tcAcc  A3U]*  b'^-ó]iiic]i)t)  a  3-cAftAb  .i.  Cúciil- 

lA^t)!).  jf  At)!)  |*|t)  tboÍAÓ  "peitblA  C10T)r)fA]C]t)  At)  C|tlA|t  A 
1)-A0p^eACC  A3  CUA|X3A]T)  f  Al|l,     A311I'  bO  |lAb  biX  ll]Óe  A3U]* 

bív  Ai|Te  é ;  A3uf  ]]•  Ay  Tto]bi]t  at)  cat)  bo  bivbA|t  A3  S3ACAC, 
A3uf  A3  Uacaó  ;  Abub*iiic  pe|tb]A  't)i  cubfioitjA  ivyi  3-corb- 
aIca|*  1)0  iv|t  3-con)pivt)cu]*  a  CbucuUAiT)t)/  ol  ye.  'C^a  fit)?' 

olCuCullAlt)t).  'Í)ÍV  CA]tAlb  fiOCA]|Tfl  5AC  h-ACA,  A3Uf  t)ÍO|l 
CAI|*beAt)A]f   A  ItlATT)    ÓATbfA  lAb,'    ol 'pe^tbiA.      '  W]    b-fU]l 


82 

ufiuj-A  6e  fit)/  ol  CúcullA|tjt},  'oi|i  biv  &-CAifbeAi)CAii  At) 
feAS  lp]A  A  i)-é]i)peAcc  bo  rjeAC  bo  ■n)AC<s]h  2t)|lcAÓ,  rjAC 
bjAO  3AbA8  jiebjATb'Xiituoiie  b]tAO]5eACCA5ueAc  bo  "CbuACA 
<Det)Ai)Ai)i)A5Uf  cuf*AAi)t);  ACÍV  At;  coi;Ai;cijo]f'  A5Acb'iorr)- 
AjtcA  cleA^'  r)--^o]\e  A5uf  3AT]*5e  ro|iATT)f a,  a^ii]*  v]0]i  ca]]*- 

beAT)<Vf     6ATT)f<V  A   ^AOAO  t)Ó  A     ^*0f*5lA  /      5UJt  Ab  At;iJ|*|I)  JtÓ 

cATj-beAT^fAC  A  tj-uile  3l]0CAf  bic  ce^le,  cotjac  itA^b  b]Arb<v]tt 
civ]c  O^ob  A5  AfiAile  AC  njúrjA  Ai)  JAe  buljA  A5  CiicullAiijt)." 

Ferdia,  thereupon,  commenced  to  inflict  his  continuous  heavy  blows 
upon  him  (Cuchullainn).  Cuchullainn  wished  his  potent  fairy  friends 
to  come  to  his  assistance,  to  shield  their  pupil  from  the  imminent 
danger  of  the  conflict.  It  was  then  that  Doilb  and  Indoilb  hastened 
to  aid  and  assist  their  friend  Cuchullainn.  Ferdia,  at  that  moment, 
felt  the  three  conjointly  renewing  the  attack  upon  him,  and  he  ex- 
erted his  ingenuity  to  aid  and  defend  himself.  *'  It  is  evident  that, 
when  we  were  with  Sgatha  and  Uatha,"  said  Ferdia,  "  we  used  no 
such  unfairness  in  either  our  friendship  or  companionship."  "  What 
do  you  allude  to  ?"  asked  Cuchullainn.  "  To  two  fairy  friends  of 
yours  who  are  protecting  you,  and  you  never  showed  them  to  me," 
responded  Ferdia.  "That  is  a  thing  that  cannot  easily  be  done, 
because,  if  the  Feadh  Fia  was  only  once  seen  by  any  individual  of 
the  descendants  of  Milesius,  an  individual  of  the  Tuatha  Dedanans 
could  by  no  means  exercise  any  of  his  cabalistic  or  druidical  arts 
while  you  were  present ;  you,  too,  have  the  Cunancneis  aiding  you  in 
your  dexterity  in  the  use  of  arms,  and  In  your  valour  against  me, 
and  you  have  never  shown  me  the  art  of  opening  or  closing  it," 
said  Cuchulainn.  They  thereupon,  disclosed  to  one  another  all  their 
mystic  arts  of  attack,  so  that  one  had  no  advantage  over  the  other, 
except  that  Cuchullainn  had  the  Gath  Bolg. 

It  was  a  Lcannan  Sighe  that  rescued  Eoghan  Mor  (Eugene 
tlie  Great),  King  of  Munster  from  liis  opponents,  and  deluded 
them  into  the  belief  that  the  rocks  and  upright  stones  on  the 
field  of  battle  were  the  forces  of  Munster,  so  that  they  commen- 
ced to  hew  the  stones  instead  of  their  opponents.     Her  name 

1  Coi)Atjci)eir.    Some  cabalistic  instrument  like  the  5<\c  buls. 


83 

was  Eadaoin  of  Inse  Cregaire,  as  we  find  in  an  old  MS. 
account  of  the  battle  of  Moylena  :  — 

"  i)o  b]  leArjijAi)  livt)con)ACcAC  A5  Qjot^ax)  a  b-^05A«i 
hox)  A]c  X]x)  bob'  p05lATr)c<v  ]  c-ceA]tbA]b  i;<,v  t)-&|tuA6  : 
b'i]*ir)  6A&<\0]r)  jr)|*e  CiteA5A]fie,  A^uf  címjac  f]  |:é|t)  Acuf 
bftot)5-bu]ÓeAt)  be  cuft|tAi6]b  'f  At)  0]óce  A5  CAbAific  citeij'e 
A  l^vrbA  ]i\x.  215111*  At)  Cftivc  bo  puA]|i  n  6Ó5AT)  |io]rt)pe, 
'fAt)  TTjófi  éi5;t)    f]r),  ceib-p  bA  ^uitcAcc  5ur  At)  iv]c  it)a 

llA^b    fé    ^é)I)   ACUf    3oU    A5  CACUJAÓ   T)A  C-CfteAT)    UftlAjOe, 

50  c-civi)AC  be  6u]be  t)a  b-<vei6ce,  50  ]tii5  fi  pé]i)  acu^  a 
TÍ)U]i)ci]t  .1.  BÓ5AI)  ACiif  Aji  rbA^ft  be  clAT)T)A|b  <t)eift5cit)e 
leó  5AT)  y:\o\'  bo  ^bi^U  ttjac  IX^ó^uje.  2l]t  i)']ti)ceACc 
b'6ó5Ar)   uACA  5AI)  f]0|*    A   biolA,  ca]i)ic  A  le]é]b  |*]t)  bo 

buAl|ieATÍ)    Aft    A  |tOfCA]b  ACU|*  A]|t  A  T)']r)C]r)  Cjte    ]On)A|tA]C 

bu]le,  ^6^1156,  ACAf  bfojAlcAif;  5u|i  tDeAftcTK^ii  u]le  At) 
CAjtAic  t)0  At)  bAlUvt)  corT)6AiT)5eAi)  cloice  bo  bj  a  c-corb- 
^05Af  bó|b,  An)uil  5UÍI  b'é  6Ó5AT)  ^,  ACAf  50  T)-beAytt)A]' 
clAebcloÓ  1)0  beAlbAi]-c|a]U5A6  a]|i  r|te  6ftAoi6eACC.  2lfi  fji) 
cu5Aib  u]l]  A5A]6  A  T)-&ii)f:eAcc  u]|tc]  b^A  leAbjiA  a^u^  bV 
5-coti)cuA|t5AT),  A5uf  A  |*é  A  b"^!»)!!)  ■<M?1U5  At) Cbloc  Bbeix|ili- 

CA,  Ó't)  T)  JOAjtA  A511]*  ó'l)  T1)-beA|lA  Cu5AbA|t  U||IC|  le  bA]lc- 
buAÍA  T)A  5-cloi6eAlb  A5U|*  1)A  5-CflUA6-pA0bAfl  " 

Eoghan  Mor  (Eugene  the  Great)  had  a  most  potent  Leannan  Sighe 
near  that  place,  who  was  most  learned  in  the  arts  of  the  druids  ; — 
she  was  Eadaoin  of  Inse  Cregaire.  She,  in  person,  and  a  large  host 
of  champions,  came  during  the  night  to  give  the  valour  of  their 
hands  to  him  (Eoghan).  When  she  found  Eoghan  before  her  in  that 
imminent  danger,  she  went  to  aid  him,  on  the  spot  where  he  and 
Goll  were  engaged  in  combat,  she  came  with  the  shades  of  night, 
and  rescued  him  and  all  the  Clann  Deirgthine  from  their  danger, 
unknown  to  Goll  Mac  Moirne.  When  Eoghan  thus  effected  his 
escape,  without  knowing  where  he  went,  their  eyes  wei-e  so  bedimmed 
and  their  intellect  benumbed,  through  their  madness  and  angry 
wrath,  that  they  mangled  the  firm  rock  and  pillar-stone  that  were 
close  by,  being  under  the  impression  that  these  were  Eoghan.  They 
did  so,   because,  by  a  spell  of  druidism,  they   so  appeared  to  them. 


84 

They  all,  thereupon,  attacked  the  stone,  mangling  it  with  their 
swords,  so  that  the  name  of  the  stone  to  this  day  is  Clock  Beartha 
(the  mangled  stone),  in  consequence  of  the  mangling  and  hewing 
they  gave  it  with  their  swords  and  hard-tempered  sharp  weapons. 

Here  we  find  that  a  Leaniian  Siglie  rescued  Eugene  from 
death,  but  it  is  also  clear  that  fairy  influence  itself  was  supposed 
to  be  in  some  degree  under  tlie  control  of  fate,  or  of  some  other 
power,  since  she  and  her  host  were  unable  to  turn  the  fortune 
of  the  day  against  the  valiant  Goll  and  his  men.  Eadaoiii 
was  not  forgetful  of  her  favorite,  though  he  had  married  the 
daughter  of  the  king  of  Spain,  when  he  landed  in  Ireland 
accompanied  by  the  Spanish  forces  given  him  by  his  fatlier-in- 
law,  she  welcomed  him,  and  gave  him  good  council,  which 
resulted  in  his  success,  as  will  appear  from  tlie  following  : — 

"H|  b-A]CiiifceAit  A  T)-irT)ceAcc  ^YA  a  rt^uijt-eACCjiA  5U|i 
5AbAbA|i  cuAt)  A5ur  CAlpo^c  Au  )v]X  '3]^^vy>o]\z^c  CeAÍ- 
5U]ite  A  ij-be^f-ceAjtc  At)  oileAiu.  7^^^^c  BA&AOin  i)a  coiurje 
Ajuf  ^CAftAf*  |:ivilce  ■\xo]^r)(^,  |:occAf  BÓ5M)  |*5í^aIa  6],  A 
bubA]]tc  i*n*|  i)iv  jiAjb  bo  I'j&AlAib  a^c]  acc  30  ytAib  u|tn)Ofi 
ceAi)Ai[*  2l)uri)AU,  A5U]'  A  cu|b|*ii)  50  b-iv|itTt)]5ce  b],  A5 
'LU5A1Ó  21Uacac,  a^»!*  aj  2loi;3U|*  O5  bo  clAu^A^b  'DeA5A, 
i;o  bo  eA]i|iuAib  2l)úit)Au  ;  ^juf  ^rór,  50  ]iAib  TtA]i)i)  b]  A5 
Coi)A]|ie  iTjAC  2l)o5A  LivrbA,  Aju]*  A5  2t)AC  M|a6  n)e]c 
■L115A16,  A5Uf  ^y■^\\  bu]5eAC  bo  Cboiji)  t)A  bA  jteACCAib  ]Ab, 
A5uf  y:óx,  50  jiA^b  2t)AC  MiAÓ  A5UI*  CoTjAipe  AT)  oi6ce  y]\) 
Ajuj*  ]on)Ab  b'iiA]fl]b  2l)iiri)Ai)  a  b-^05U|*  bo  a  3-CA|i|tu]C 
Bbiil^^i  A|t  cAbAiiic  n)6fi  cuA]|tc  beu'COAjic  9X)úú)M),  ai)  aoi) 

CeAC  1)-ÓIa,  AJUf,   AJl  ]•),  Af  1)A01   n)-bl|A51)A  A5U|*  Al)   n)iO]*A 

1*0  b'^ivjbAii*  OHIO,  Ajuf  ACiVjb  bo  i)Ain)be  ai)  corijf-Aib  ]*ii) 
A3  CA|C]oib  bo  c|tice  oaco|1|ia,  A3Uf  &H113  Ai)0|f  biv  xy^oxy 
•j*Ai3e  A3iir  cu]it  buAimoiT)  A|i  A  b-|:o|nb  asui*  A|i  a 
b-pó]C]]ieAcc." 

There  were  no  tidings  of  their  achievements  or  voyage  until  they 
arrived  at  the  harbour   and  port  of  Inis    Grianjiortach  of  Cealgaire 


85 

on  the  south  of  the  island.  Eadaoin  hastened  to  meet  and  welcome 
him,  Eoghan  asked  her  the  news  of  the  day. '^She  said  that  she 
had  no  other  news  to  communicate,  except  that  the  chieftaincy 
of  Munstei",  and  a  very  particular  portion  of  it,  belonged  to  Lughadh 
Allatach,  and  Aengus  Og,  descended  from  the  Clanna  Deaghadh, 
or  the  Errnaans  of  ^lunster  ;  and  also  that  a  share  of  it  was  in 
the  possession  of  Conaire,  son  of  Mogha  Lamha,  and  Mac  Niadh, 
the  son  of  Lughaidh,  who  were  not  thankful  to  Conn,  nor  pleased 
with  his  laws.  She  also  informed  him  that  Mac  Niadh  and 
Conaire,  in  course  of  their  great  visitation  of  the  south  of  Munster, 
were  in  the  banquetting  hall  at  Carric-buidhe  ;  "and,"  added  she» 
"it  is  nine  years  this  month  since  you  left  Ireland  ;  and  your  enemies 
are,  during  that  period,  wasting  the  produce  of  the  country  amongst 
them.  Arise,  now,  and  throw  confusion  on  their  councils  and  ma- 
chinations."    Eoghan  took  her  advice  and  succeeded. 

There  are  very  many  curious  stories  told  of  the  fairies  : 
there  is  no  one  locality  in  Ireland  that  is  not  full  of  fairy  tales 
connected  with  its  mountains,  lakes,  raths,  hills,  wells,  and 
even  bushes.  The  great  prevalence  of  this  belief,  even  at  the 
present  day,  is  very  astonishing,  and  would  be  much  more  so 
were  it  not  that  we  have  ample  evidence  to  prove  that  it  was 
once  universally  held  by  the  people  of  Ireland.  In  the  face 
of  Christianity,  it  is  strange  how  it  was  able  to  maintain  its 
hold  on  the  popular  mind.  The  fairies  were  believed  to  feel 
much  interested  in  human  affairs  :  some  of  them  were  repre- 
sented as  being  of  a  benevolent,  and  some  of  a  malevolent 
nature.  In  consequence  of  the  power  possessed  by  the  male- 
volent portion  of  the  fairy  hordes  over  domestic  animals  as 
well  as  man,  charmers  were  called  into  requisition,  and  derived 
a  handsome  revenue  from  tlie  pubhc  for  their  services  in 
counteracting  by  their  charms  the  baneful  influence  of  these 
invisible  creatures.  Fairies  were  generally  believed  to  be  in 
the  habit  of  carrying  away  many  persons,  and  of  substituting 
for  them  some  phantasm  which  appeared  to  the  eye  of  the 
worldling  a  reality  :  but  children,  and  particularly  nurses,  were 
not  free  from  the  baneful  influence  of  those  kidnapping  spirits. 


86 

There  are  innumerable  strange  stories  told  of  the  spiriting  of 
children  and  nurses;  but  the  most  strange  of  all  is  the  spirit- 
ing away  the  fairy-inspired  bard  by  his  muse,  or  Leannan 
Sighe.  Our  bards,  not  content  with  fulfilHng  their  mission 
amongst  their  earthly  brethern,  should  fly  into  the  enchanting 
realms  of  song  itself,  there  to  enjoy  the  fascinating  company  of 
their  muse,  where  age,  death,  or  trouble  should  never  interfere 
with  their  pleasures.  Now,  speaking  of  a  particular  species  of 
spiriting  away  to  happy  realms,  namely,  that  of  the  bards  by 
their  favorite  muses. 

It  may  be  said  that  in  modern  times,  at  least,  our  bards  were 
supposed  to  have  had  the  gift  of  inspiration  from  the  Leannan 
Sighe.  The  address  to  his  muse  was  ever  the  first  composition 
of  the  inspired  ;  and  the  Leannan  Sighe  always  compelled  the 
person,  with  whom  it  entered  into  a  compact,  to  the  promise 
of  everlasting  union.  The  muse,  when  her  favorite  entered 
into  a  compact  with  her,  extracted  a  promise  that  he,  or  she 
as  the  case  might  have  been,  would  accompany  the  fascinating 
creature  during  eternity  ;  and  the  semi-celestial  being  seldom 
allowed  the  mortal  to  reside  long — at  least,  not  during  the 
natural  span  of  life — on  earth.  We  have  very  many  traditions 
about  the  lamented  premature  decease  of  our  greatest  bards  of 
modern  days  ;  and  it  was  always  a  duty  incumbent  on  some 
one  of  the  surviving  bards  to  compose  the  Dirge,  or  Marbh- 
naidh  for  the  deceased  brother.  Hence  we  have  so  many 
dirges  on  our  bards,  and  so  faitJiful  an  obituary.  Perhaps 
the  best  exemplification  of  what  we  have  already  asserted  will 
be  found  in  the  following  beautiful  address  to  the  Irish  Muse 
or  Leannan  Sighe,  by  the  facetious  and  patriotic  Art  M'Cooey, 
the  bard,  who,  by  the  bye,  was  said  to  have  been  almost 
snatched  away  by  his  Leannan  Sighe,  or  Muse,  from  the  arms 
of  his  wife. 


87 


urn   C1))L16  CRe2l52ljN. 

2l5  úift  CblUe  CtteASAio  r^Ao  co&ajI  nje  T^AOjtt  íao]  bttoi), 
'S  le  b-emal*  "A  ti)Ai&t)e  cixijAjc  Aitjbjrt  trjv  tpo  6é]i)  le  PÓ5 ; 
bbi  snuAib  5tiir-óA]ce  'q,  'r  lAiTjbitt  'i)A  ciAb  TijATi  on, 
b'e  AojbpeAt  At)  ftorijAii)  beic  A5  An)A\\c  a]\\  ai)  nfosAjt)  05  ! 

2lt)  c-Síoró5. 

21    ^]AU4-ni  CATlCAt)IJA15  T)iX  CAlceATl  CUfA  A  I)-5AlttAI5  bTtÓ]t), 

2lcc  éiTi5i6  50  CApAió  'r  cAin  lion;rA  riA^  'fA  nóo  ; 

3o  cjn  óeAt  At)  Bb^AllAib  t)Ac  b-^ruAiti  5aiU  Aijt)  ceAb  Ttéiii)  50  yó]\.\, 

5beAbA]n  AoibijeAf  Ain  b-AllAojo  bob'  njeAlU  le  riA^TA  ceojl. 

21  ni'oSAT)  ")lMr  At)  cu  ])élei)  pó  'n  criéAsbAtt)  rlóis, 

wo  'l)  so  1)A0]  t1JI)A  SeAfA  PbAtllJAffUr  CU  b]  béAIJCA  '5-CIÓ6  ; 

50  be  'v  cin  T'^  5-CTiu|t)oe  a|x  b-oileA6  cu  a  ^eulc  5A1)  ceo, 
le'n  Tt)iAt)  leAC  rt)o  fAttjuilre  beic  co5ati')Ai6  Icac  riA^  fA  nob  ? 

2lr)  C-SÍ0CÓ5. 
Wa  piAir^Aio  éíoTt)  ceit^,  óm  T))  coblujTi)  ai|\  ai)  cAobf  a  ííó'i)  nj-boji)!?, 
2lcc  ir  ijAO]  beA5  leinib  nje  a  b-oileAó  le  cAo]b  Sbt^Aitjtje  6j5  ; 
21  n;-bftui5iT)  ceAfic  tja  ti-oWatx)  birr)  50  irolluf  A5  búr5Aó  x\f)  ceo]l, 
IJitp  cft  Aci)oi)A  A5  CeAtijAin  'r  AiTi  njAib)ij  le  cAojb  Z\)]^-Có^a]i}  ! 

Wf  ó]úlcAii)  bo  cuineAó  Aiti  A  5-CTiu]i)tjeAt)  t)A  RÍ05  bo'tj  6^, 
2lcc  5UTX  clAbAticA  V\on)  x3AT\n)W]i}  oip'  ca^a  cA  fA  cffi  50  í:Ó]11  ; 
2lt)  céjl'  lib  A  tijeAllAf  lenj'  5eAllA]b  c|tA  bj  ff  05, 
ti'ái  b-CTiéi5rii)t)  Aijojr  Í  i)í\n  b-^iorAC  6ati)  50  n)-b]AÓ  n  nj-briót)  ! 

21t)  c-S]ocó5. 

'S  é  t^oiM"?  HAC  CAttAib  6u]c  A  njAitieAiji)  bo  b'  5AolcAjb  beó, 
CAiTt  5At)  épeAii)  5AT)  eA^nAii)  Acb  AtvnAojbeAc  bAoc  5J11)  bói5  ; 
Mac  n^'peA^n  sujc  reAl  catijuiU  le  b-Ajijbin  t)a  i)-blAo)c-polc  ójtt, 
Wó'i)  cín  A  beic  troT)oiÍ7Ab  ^ró  5AC  ^AbAO  a  t).b&|o  cu  ceól. 

2lt)  Biv|t&. 

'5  é  njo  5éu|i-50]t)  ceipijir  5uri  ceArOA  UAitjo  SAojoil  C})]]\'Có^A^x}, 

'S  50  t'-nqi  ói5ne  ao  Bcasa  saij  rGA5Ar  faoj  Mas  b'An  s-cóm; 

3éA5A  5U\o  bAice  Keill  l^bt^AfAis  ijac  b-cft&lBeAb  ceól, 

1r  cuiTVVeAó  é]beATb  ro  Nollujc  ati  i)A  b-OUA)ri)  biAb  a  s^ile  bo^b. 

2lu  C-SÍ0CÓ5. 

O  cneA5bAti)  t)A  crieAbA  rT)  ai)  2lcnuinj,  'r  iroTXAoj^  fA  l)bólt)t), 
Sljocc  2tll)lleA6  i)A  b-i:lAic  béAítAb  pAfSAÓ  bo  5AC  bnui5  5A1)  5leó  ; 
■Hac  nj'feAnix  bujc  'r  i)a  IjofAib  A5Af  njire  leb'  cAoib  5AC  ijóip. 
Ha  r*15*'e  cUi)i)  £Ai%  beic  colUti)  i^Aoib'  ctwibe  50  beó  ? 


88 

C^bAjit  léASfA  '5Ur  sgaUao  ful  fo  b-céisjn)  Icac  x]A\\  fA  |tó6  ; 
2I)a  éA5An)  vó"t)  c-SeAOAji)!),  a  ft-cfn  SObAtjAji),  tjo  rA  M&ipce  tijólTit 
SiiftAb  5-CiU  cúbAttÚA  An  Cl)noA5A|i)  leASVAp  n)é  A  5-ct\é  pAoj  ybb. 

THE  CLAY  OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  CREGGAN. 

THE    BARD. 

Near  the  clay  of  the  church  of  Creggan  I  slept  Last  night  in  sorrow, 
And  with  the  dawn  of  morning  a  maiden  approached  me  with  a  kiss  ; 
Her  cheeks  blushed  like  the  rose,  and  her  hair  glistened  like  gold, 
'Twas  the  pleasure  of  the  world  to  be  gazing  on  the  young  princess. 

THE    FAIRY, 

O  free-hearted,  friendly  man,  consume  not  thyself  with  sorrow, 

But  quickly  arise  and  come  with  me  along  the  way. 

To  the  fairy  Land  of  Promise   where   the  stranger   hath   not  yet 

obtained  sway, 
Where  thou  wilt  enjoy  pleasure  in  palaces  and  entrancing  strains  of 

melody. 

THE    BARD. 

0  sweetest  princess !  art  thou  Helen  for  whom  hosts  were  slain. 
Or  one  of  the  nine  fair  shaped  maidens  of  Parnassus  ? 

What  country  on  the  globe  gave  birth  to  thee,  O  cloudless  star ! 
Who  bidest  one  like  me  to  be  thy  companion  along  the  way  ? 

THE    FAIRY. 

Ask  me  no  questions  ;  for  I  sleep  not  on  this  side  of  the  Boyne, 

1  am  an  humble  child,  bred  at  the  moat  of  Grenoge,' 
In  the  true  hrmghin  of  the  bards  I  openly  promote  song, 

In  the  evening  I  am  at  Tura,  and  in  the  morning  near  Tyrone. 

THE    BARD. 

I  would  not  spurn  thine  offer  for  all  the  gold  that  kings  gather   in 

store, 
Were  it  not  thankless  in  me  to  part  from  my  friends  that  are  still  in 

the  land  ; 
And  that  spouse  of  mine,  whom  I  flattered  with  my  promises,  when 

she  was  young, 
Should  I  now  forsake  her,  I  am  certain  she  would  pine  in  grief. 

'  Grenoge,  in  the  county  of  Westmeath ;  the  moat  of  Grenoge  was  a 
renowned  fairy  residence.  '5\^'A}\)r)e  Ó5,  lit.  young  Grainne — 3^iv]nno, 
i.e.  aní^ó  'i\.]nc,  Ainc,  or  goddess  of  love, 


89 


THfi    FAIRY. 

Methinks  thou  hast  not  a  friend  among  all  thy  kindred  that  are  still 

living. 
Thou  art  without  goods  or  garments,  nothing  but  a  poor  witless 

wanderer  ; 
Were  it  not  better  thou  should'st  dwell  a  while  with  a  young  maiden 

of  golden  locks, 
Than  that  the  country  should  be  laughing  at  thy  doggrel  rhymes? 

THE    BARD. 

'Tis  my  sore  woundand  plague  that  we  have  lost  the  Gael  of  Tyrone, 
And  that  the  heirs   of  the  Fews  sleep  without  pleasure  under  the 

stone  hard  by  ; 
The  comely  shoots  that  sprang  from  Niall  Frasach  who  would  not 

leave  music  without  its  reward. 
Who  would  give  raiment  at  Christmas  to  the  "Ollamhs"  that  owned 

their  sway. 

THE    FAIRY. 

Since  those  tribes  have  been  vanquished  at  Aughrim,  and,  Oh  !  my 
grief!  at  the  Boyne, 

The  descendants  of  Mileadh  of  the  princes  who  freely  gave  protec- 
tion to  all ; 

Were  it  not  better  for  thee  to  dwell  in  the  "  Lioses"  and  I  by  thy 
side  each  day. 

Than  that  the  darts  of  Willy's  clan'  should  be  for  ever  piercing  thy 
heart  ? 

THE    BARD. 

O  sweetest  princess,  if  it  be  my  fate  to  be  thy  treasure, 

Give  me  a  promise  and  a  bond,  ere  I  go  with  thee  along  the  way  ; 

That,  though  I  die  by  the  Shannon,  in  the  Isle  of  Man,  or  in  great 

Egypt, 
It  is  in  the  sweet-scented  clay  of  Creggan  that  I  shall  lie  under  the 

earth. 

It  is  no  wonder  that  tlie  belief  in  the  existence  of  the 
Leannan  Sighe,  and  in  its  connexion  with  its  mortal  victim 
was  general,  when  we  read  the  following  song  or  incantation, 
composed  by  the  Eev.  Conn  O'Donnell,  P.P.  of  IS^ewcastle, 

'  The  followers  of  William  III. 


90 

county   of  Limerick,   A.D.,   1760,   for  the   purpose    of  ex- 
pelling a  Leannan  Sighe   from   Sheela   Tavisli,   one    of  his 
parishioners.     It  would  appear  from  its  tenor  that  this  being 
was  looked  upon  by  some  people  as  an  incubus  or  a  carnally 
inclined  spirit,  like  those  believed  to  have  been  in  existence  by 
some  learned  theologians  of  only  a  few  centuries  back.     AVe 
have  seen  many  persons  who  pretended  to  be  favored  with  the 
inspirations  of  a  Leannan  Sighe,  but  most  of  these  were  of 
that  class  of  people  vulgarly  called  Bacachs,  who  derived  a 
good  revenue  from  the  use  of  the  knowledge  they  were  sup- 
posed to  have  acquired  from  their    familiar  invisibles,  who 
always  pretended  to  possess  the  power  of  foretelhng  events ; 
but  when  we  give  the   following  incantation,  probably  com- 
posed in  derision,  by  a  priest,  it  may  be  inferred  tliat  the 
belief  in  a  sort  of  incubus,  or  malicious  spirit  was  general. 
No  one  can  doubt  that  the  wicked  belief  in  such  beings  was 
pretty  general  when  we  find  that  in  the  year  1324,   Alice 
Kyteler  was  indicted  for  sorcery,  because  she  had  formed  a 
compact  with  a  demon  named  Artis  Filius ;  and  that  through 
the  powerful  influence  of  her  friends  Richard  de  Ledrede,  a 
Franciscan  friar  of  London,  who  obtained  the  see  of  Ossory 
from  Pope  John  XXIL,  Anno  1318,  and  before  whom  this 
Alice  Kyteler  and  her  accomphces  had  been  accused  of  heresy, 
in  consequence  of  their  compact  with  the  evil  one,  was  im- 
prisoned and  otherwise  persecuted.*     It   is  very  likely  that 
the  Danish  invasion  revived  these  wicked  practices  among  the 
Irish,  and  that  whatever  dormant  sparks  of  druidical  abomina- 
tions lay  smouldering  in  the  damp  ashes  of  time,  were  then 
rekindled,  and  that  all  the  latent  abominations  of  the  pagan 
Irish  and  Norsemen  were  again    cherished  and   cultivated. 
The  venerable  clergyman  spoke,  no  doubt,  satirically.     Here 
are  his  verses  :  — 

'  Vide  Transactions  of  the  Camden  Society,  for  1842. 


9m  ■c-9iz\)9i)H  conn  o'^D02t)i)M'eijiL,  ccr:. 

A5  bib]]tc  A  ief;ivi)  Sí3e  .i.  ai)  ScAlc<v]|iej  ó  SbÍ5ile  T,<s.h^o]]'. 
Cftof  Cbttiorti  oTtc  A  Sbisile,  óu'  50AttT^*n  t)UA6, 

2lTX  Ai)  rÍ5'JAW<v  TO  rfoeAr  le&'  5eAl-ci)Att)A  ruAf, 
2l6  coirij&eAcc  'fAi)  oióce  'f  A6  cupAjl  cttUAió  ! 

t^í  b-i:uil  rÍ5-bATiTXA  ó'i)  i)-&ílit)i)  50  5eAl-cnív)3  cuAió, 
2I)AO|Uct)oic  i)A  ii)1i)-lir  le  cttuioi)eAti)uil  rUiAS  ; 
Wa  fj-AoiTtpeAb  le  lAojcib  i)A  teAtj-ttAó  fUA5, 
2l)uoA  5-cu]Txi&  ó  SbÍ5]le  ai)  rp^eArAt)  bUAinc  ! 

55níbpeA&  50  b-2lo|bill  50  soAl-ctiAjs  cuA]ó, 

RJ5-beAi)  ijA  l)rtui5t)e  'r  liorjAn  rluAis  ; 

t5fo5Alcur  11*  bjb-pei|\5,  If  cuirAjl  ctiuAib, 

Oo  cAbAiTic  fto't)  r-rf5-bAíxtiA  ro  SbÍ5lle  'fA  coostijAil  UAiot)  ? 

SaoiIih)  5U|i  Tíjj-bAttT^A  5A1)  cojnjeAb  cuai), 

t)o  bjbí^ió  5  fJ5e-ci)oic  Atj  lo|tAtj  Ruaó  ; 

No  ^íoix-rp^eAt  o  2loi|re  t)A  tSAO-T^Aó  ]  b-CuAbtijurbAji), 

Oo  i-5A0ileAó  le  b]\.AO]^eAcz-c\]x  tjA  t)-t)Ai)At7i)  ^-bUAitic ! 

SBAojljon)  le  rÍ5&-ct)o]c  ai)  yp]\eAyisv  uajiji), 

No  le  flirtj-f-TteAbAjb  IÍ05A  i)a  tT^ucAij  luAic ; 

t)'A  cu]b|t]0c  50  qocttAc  le  SeAijt^Ajb  fluA]5, 

Ctte  lujse  leACfA,  a  SbÍ5lle,  5A1;  ceAb  b'j:A5Ail  UAjtjt;  ? 

FATHER    CONN    O'DONNELL 

composed  this  song  in  order  to  expel  a  Leannan  Sighe,  or 

Incubus  from  Sheela  Tavish. 

The  Cross  of  Christ  be  upon  you,  Sheela,  against  your  new  incubus, 
Let  the  true  Cross  of  JESUS  protect  you  for  ever  ; 
From  this  fairy  that  lies  close  to  your  snow-white  bosom. 
Who  accompanies  you  at  night  and  gives  you  hard  cuffs. 

There  is  not  a  fairy  that  existed  since  the  deluge,'  even  those  of  the 

white  northern  strand, 
And  of  the  broad-topped  smooth  lioses^  where  their  hosts  assemble, 

1  The  Irish  say  that  fairies  were  a  class  of  fallen  angels  who  had  not 
been  so  guilty  as  demons,  and  therefore  were  permitted  to  wander  on 
earth  like  the  Peris.  They  expect  to  be  re-admitted  into  heaven  ;  but 
for  this  hope  they  would  long  ago  have  destroyed  the  earth. 

*  Lioses,    Forts,  &c.     These  are  supposed  to  be  fairy  palaces. 


92 

That  I  will  not  satirize  by  the  lays  of  the  old  sayings  of  the  sages,' 
If  they  will  not  banish  this  dull  midge  from  Sheela. 

I  will  write  to  Aoibheall^  of  the  fair  northern  strand. 

The  Queen  of  the  Bruighin,^  and  the  familiar  (spirit)  of  hosts  ; 

To  inflict  vengeance  with  wrath  and  hard  cuffs. 

Upon  this  fairy  that  haunts  Sheela,  and  send  him  away  from  us. 

I  suspect  he  is  a  fairy  that  has  no  place  of  rest, 

-And  was  expelled  from  the  fairy  hiil  of  Loran  Ruadh; 

Or  is  a  genuine  imp  sent  from  Aoife^  of  the  north, 

That  was  loosed  by  the  expert  spells  of  the  surly  Tuatha  Dedanans. 

Let  us  expel  to  the  fairy  hills  this  sullen  midge  from  us. 
Or  to  the  bright  waters  of  the  Lee  of  the  rapid  currents ; 
There  to  be  strongly  fettered  by  the  Shenad  hosts. 
Because  he  slept  with  you,  Sheela,  without  our  leave. 

The  Danes  bad  their  Elve?,  creatures  of  a  dimiuutive 
stature,  who  wore  low  crowned  hats ;  tlie  Danes  represented 
the  female  Elves  as  beings  of  young  and  attractive  faces,  but 
hollow  behind.  The  Nisses  of  the  Danes  were  accustomed 
to  assist  in  the  duties  of  domestic  service,  and  nearly  repre- 
sented the  Brownies  of  the  Scotch  and  Ulster  Presbyterians, 
and  the  Diarmuid  Ua  Scudal  of  the  Irish.  The  Scandinavian 
Dwergar,  and  German  Twerga  have  no  counterpart  in  Irish 
mythology ;  the  fairies  of  Ireland  are  represented  as  beings 
resembling  human  creatures  both  in  stature  and  appearance. 
Our  mythology,  which  singularly  agrees  with  that  of  the 
orientals,  states  that  the  counterpart  of  every  individual  is 
found  among  the  fairy  ranks.     It  may  be  suspected  that   the 

'  The  powers,  supposed  to  have  been  possessed  by  the  bards,  of  inju- 
ring even  spirits  by  the  venom  of  their  satire. 

*  Aoibheall.     The  name  of  a  fairy  princess. 

'  Bruighean,  means  a  mansion  or  palace,  but  the  word  means  also  a 
fairy  residence,  as  here. 

*  Aoife,  anotlior  fairy  queen  of  wonderful  celebrity. 


93 

word  fairy,  wliich  is  certainly  not  Celtic,  may  have  been  de- 
rived from  the  Spanish  name  Fada  and  the  French  Fee; 
though  some  have  been  inclined  to  derive  it  from  the  Persian 
Peri,  but  had  it  been  so,  the  attributes  of  the  Peri  would 
have  been  given  to  other  creatures  in  the  mythology  of  these 
nations.  The  Irish  have  traditional  records  of  the  fairy 
chieftains  of  their  respective  provinces :  The  name  of  Ma- 
nanan  Mac  Lir,  God  of  the  ocean,  or  the  Neptune  of  the 
Irish,  will  not  be  easily  forgotten.  He  is  supposed  to  have 
remained  in  Ireland  until  the  time  of  St  Cokimbkill,  who 
gave  him  some  unexpected  tidings  respecting  his  future  hap- 
piness ;  he  left  Ireland  in  disgust,  and  retired  to  his  favorite 
country  Armenia.  The  ])alace  of  Mananan  is  said  to  have 
been  on  the  brink  of  a  lake  at  Enniskeen,  in  the  county  of 
Monaghan,  The  Chief  of  Ulster  who  succeeded  Mananan  was 
Mac  Moineanta,  who  had  taken  up  his  residence  at  Scrabey 
in  the  county  of  Cavan,  Crop  is  said  to  be  the  present  chief 
of  the  Connacht  fairies ;  Donn  Firinn  of  the  Munster  in- 
visibles. The  belief  of  the  Irish  in  these  pagan  superstitions 
may  be  learned  from  the  following  Irish  song,  which  will 
tend  to  illustrate  the  belief  in  the  power  of  fairies  to  injure 
and  carry  off  human  beings.  The  history  of  its  composition 
has  been  kindly  furnished  by  the  Honorary  Secretary,  Mr. 
O'Daly,  in  whose  large  collection  the  original  was  found.  It 
is  very  popular  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Youghal,  county  of 
Cork ;  Mount  Uuiacke  being  its  scene,  which  lies  about  five 
miles  south-west  of  that  town.  It  is  said  to  have  been  pro- 
duced under  the  following  circumstances. 

One  of  the  ancestors  of  the  respectable  family  of  Uniacke, 
of  Mount  Uniacke,  named  Philip,  was  distinguished  for  his 
hospitality  and  love  of  Irish  literature ;  his  house  was  open 
to  all  the  itinerant  bards  of  Munster.  The  composer, 
William  Cotter,  surnamed  the  Red,  from  the  colour  of  his  hair, 
lived  near  Castlelyons,    and  flourished  A.D.  17-37,  that  being 


94 

the  year  in  which  he  composed  the  song;  he  frequently 
visited  Uiiiacke's  house,  and  always  shared  the  bounty  of  its 
generous  and  hospitable  owner,  Mr.  Uniacke  fell  sick,  and 
Cotter  having  neglected  to  enquire  about  his  health  for  some 
time,  thought  it  then  too  late ;  because  he  supposed  Mr. 
Uniacke  would  not  recover,  but  he  did  recover,  and  it  then 
became  the  task  of  the  bard  to  account  for  his  absence  and 
apparent  ingratitude.  Hence,  he  says  that  he  was  one 
night  surrounded  by  the  Munstcr  fairies,  who  were  evidently 
in  deep  sorrow,  and  who  told  him  that  his  friend  Mr. 
Uniacke  was  in  the  greatest  possible  danger — having  been 
carried  away  by  the  Munster  fairies,  and  proposed  that  he 
and  they  should  pursue  the  enemy  and  rescue  their  friend. 
All  which  was  done  as  the  poet  records.  The  event  answered 
his  expectation ;  for  he  not  only  freed  himself  from  the 
charge  of  ingratitude,  but  was  looked  upon  by  Mr.  Uniacke 
as  his  deliverer  and  best  friend. 

The  peasantry  assert  that  periodical  contests  have  been 
alw^'iys  carried  on  between  the  provincial  fairies,  and  when  the 
crops  suffer  from  blight,  high  winds,  and  the  like,  they 
attribute  it  to  the  fact,  that  the  fairies  of  the  province  where 
such  calamities  happen,  have  been  overcome  by  their  opponents. 
They  also  say  that  such  injury  to  the  corn,  fruit,  &c.,  does 
not  extend  to  the  whole  island,  but  is  confined  to  that  pro- 
vince only,  and  that  the  victorious  party  carry  with  them  what 
is  valuable,  when  returning  to  their  own  home.  This  legend 
appears  to  have  escaped  the  researches  of  the  late  T.  C.  Croker, 
at  least  I  have  not  seen  it  in  any  of  his  works.' 

'  Tlie  Irish  held  the  belief  that  the  Red  Wind  of  the  Hills,  as  they 
called  the  blasting  wind,  against  the  influence  of  which  they  had  a 
potent  charm,  was  caused  by  the  rapid  evolution  of  fairies  through  the 
air,  while  engaged  in  their  battles.  There  was  another  species  of  blast 
which  was  supposed  to  destroy  fruit  and  cereal  crops  as  well  as  having 
power  to  injure  man  and  beast ;  tiiis  was  caused  by  the  ashes  of  the 


95 
UjigSl-Zt)  KU2l43t)  2t)l)6JC  CO)Z]H  CCZ. 

JA|l  &-Cé<\]tl)AtT)    bV  CA|lA]b  AJUj*  &'a  CÓlTT)6Í05]tA]y    .1.  Pil^b 

í)u|T)r)eA|i|tbj   ó^;  b-fí]Ab|tAf  bo   bj   a]|i  a  t)-Bóca]U' 

21.1).  1737. 
21  n^oitt  ir  iije  rsAl  A]^  njAoileAtjijAib  sUfA,  A5  cfo^A  n)o  cAtm  cnAobAi6, 
5Jl  rnjAojrje  A]]\  Icasa  tAojce  5AC  rleAccA,  x)op.-cvi]^  njé  a  o-ceATicA  ru^TJ ; 
C5o  ljot)A&Af\  rsACA  rÍ5e-bAt>  lenj'  Ajr,  50  cfoctiAc  a  fCACA  A  5-CT\Aob-f olc, 
]r  b'j')')reA6Att  iJArt),  5U|i  cIao]6'  &Mi)e  6aii)  cATtAjt),  CAo^b  l]on)  coit  tlcATAjb 
cuAin ! 

Cíxitjió  ti)A|i  luiroe   A|ti  Uvo-buile  cu5Ai:)t),    2iine  le  >)-ionjAb  rséAlcA  bA 

CTIUA5, 
t)'^iv5bAr  »0  cUTt)At)i)  cliii-U\5,  ATt  Iff»  A  b-ci\t)A]rce  aij  cluirce  cfiUAio  ; 
2lcttopr  Ai)  mIc  aca  ijo)!*  a  tjocCA  seAfiti  fBejTje  slvine  5éitte  at  a  ctiUAill, 
21  5tt<xr5<^T^  le  13]l]b,  ^ri^ilce  5AC  t^jle,  t)ó'i)  cí\r  leAc  &  a  5bloUA  Kuao  ? 

t5o  t5AoileAii)AiTi  bAijtjA  Cf)lio60A  cutt)  TtACA,  It  2loib]le  CbTi<i^l5e  l^ice, 

S»X]5eA!3A  't)A  IJ.5IAIC  It  C^AOJfCAC  IC  t)'A|t,   t30  b]  A5  5AC  OeAC  &0"1)  C-flUA5 

55Íoftt)An)fi  ATtjAc  le  biolcAf  cunj  caca,  Ajti  f T^mtij^iic  AnjeAfS  i)a  lAoc|tA ; 
Ir  Tl')')  u]le  A]|i  CACAib  caoIa  tja  b|iA]ceA|t,  clAojóce  t)ív  aiti  eAfbAb  lUAif. 

t3o  sléATAJTjAiTi  T:\inioi)n  UocttA  le  Pil]b,  c|xéAi)-fg|i  5Atj  cjiije  a  s-conjUnn, 
215  é]l|onj  5AC  TUllc  ir  n)&]ftteAr  ft'ivti  r5iub,  bAori  Aicnje  C1)0i)I)acc  uajt)T)  ; 
t)'A  f:éACA]r)c  ATt  ceitxce  t)'é|5re  ias  t)a  ri')')©»  0  Gibin  Ap  Irji^if  T:ó61a, 
Co  léioiorj  TTjAn  ni5^e  CiTtloi^t),  'tja  'v  rlpcc  o  eirieAii)oio  5IIC  &o  sluAir- 

2llT)e  '5Ur  njjfe  cí^itjió  curt)  PlMp,  cttac  T^oirip  At)  p;t^it)i)  Aef\óA  ro  luAittj, 
Ir  cAtxlA  'i)Ati  5-co|i)i)e  t)AtijA)b  5AC  t)-bix]t)e,  ^Ictiopr  at)  buille  buAip ; 
t5ob'  AbAlcA  criuirt)e  Atx  ij-stjAc-b-yiUjoe  cl]Tbe,  A5  cijAcA  'rA5  n)]Ue  Ai)  éA5A 

5At)  CTtUA5, 
le  t)ix|i  lAti;A]b  5U|\  tv^z  aij  bx\f  i  cu]lleAr5  AfirAo  i}a  rcejije  c|tUA6A. 

dead  deposited  in  foreign  countries  returning  on  the  breeze  of  summer 
to  settle  in  the  ancestral  place  of  burial,  and  whatever  object  came  in 
contact  with  this  dust  in  the  course  of  its  transit,  sustained  more  or 
less  injury.  The  dust  raised  by  a  species  of  whirlwind  is  still  popularly 
believed  to  be  caused  by  fairies,  especially  when  they  are  at  war  among 
themselves,  or  when  they  design  to  do  some  mischief  If  any  person 
will  have  the  courage  to  cast  a  small  portion  of  the  earth  found  under 
the  right  foot  into  the  passing  body  of  dust,  then  the  fairies  must 
relinquish  all  claims  to  any  human  being  they  may  be  carrying  away  at 
that  time. 


90 

ri)U3  2tii7e  cuitj  P)lib  fcixi»  eAc  bA  cljffte  Uo-nuic,  5A0  cuifle  léin)  A3ur 
III  Air, 

Ir  s'anf  AI3  rio  cu|iie,  AttnóAcc  ir  njirijis.  sívtjAcc  ir  i)c)nc  v'-^v-  riu^s ; 

5ilr\  U\iii)  óeAf  le  n)U]Ti  50  &.cA|\lAtijA]ri  uile,  A]n  cttAjs  njullAjc  biooe  b-GA- 

6Aiti'  i)A  ru<^5. 
5!1<)  liv  ri»)  o'-'^O  r5wri  &<>  n^t^SAttjAiti  ttojfte  b^t?  CbohiTi)  CjUe  CUA16. 

"Co  cM)5An)A]ri  Mle  aij  cttivic  i^i)  r^^i)  5-co]i)i7e,  A|\  lArAjti  At)  chicce  ctxóóatjca 

cnnAió, 
2li)  C»Mi)i)eATi6Ac2  'r  A  c|tMp,  bo  b'peATt|t  ai)  r^  ct\oih,  A5  cijAcao  tjA  bT^o]i)5e 

ruA^ó ; 
l)A  lAib)tt  bA  cljrce,  Af)  cAl-pvil  f A  c-^ortijA,  cAiije  le  cingó  GosAit)  t)A  n^AS  ; 
Ir  ■*•)  li*^  Til)  5i^T*  T5T^lor<^  r55^1')ce  5AI)  rPIofjA,  ixii  pivii)Ai&  n)ATi  rilse  cuaio  ! 

21  b-noft-oeiite  aij  caca,  bo  f uiseAtijAjt^  A5  bAjle,  't  bo  bATi)Ait\  50  ^Ia5ac 

reAfCAC,    -,AP  5TtUAlrt), 

t)o  bio5Ait)A)n  CAr5,  'r  "'í'®  5<^0  r^Ab,  le  bio5ttAir  oo'n  v^ATi  bobiiAÓAicc; 
iJCTTAn;  x\t^  DOTtc  'f  At^  pfocA  Aiti  ah  Aicnje,  ai)  bNjóii)  lib  tjATt  clgcc  At)  ^éile, 
Ir  5AC  pfoii-ylAic  so  rS'^IP»  ■AIT^  Atjn;  bNi6|t)  úb  bo  Ica^a,  fAO(liii)  i)ac  ceAiic 

A  lUAÓ. 

Í?A  5luA]reAbAti  Att  rlWA5  n6e,  50  rúbAc  ríceAc  rulcrt)At\  reólcA, 

Oo  buAÓA5  l|i)i)  cUjcce  Ajit  ctxuAÓ  b-vioji)  Coijijacc,  b'^uAbAiscAC  50i|tc  CA^t 

rAlcA  ; 
tiob'  pUA|UAO)óeAc  Aft  5-cuAirib  cfnKioU,  'r  i)ion  rcAbAS  litji)  soij-eocAiU, 
CuAi)  Aojbpjti  TjA  5-cuAC  lioijcA,  'x  Out)  bjoijivAfi  Ai)  t»uit)i)eA|ibA]cc. 

t5ii]UeA&  njAfi  cotjt)A  i\t\b.ii;A|iA  cUyAipi),  bAij-rj-Aic  jf  cuiUe  boóftAc  5At) 

5TiUA]tr), 
■Nj  ivm'blii)  Ai)v  fil  A  b.cAif)i3  *'o'«}  pMtjcb  bob'  A]lle  'r^t)  5~ct\Mi)i)e  lijóiti ; 
Kix-\tce  -\  r\iUe,  bo  bAii)^  'r  Pl^lb,  A5  cnAcAi)  Ai)  slojoe  ]r  ceól  fte  Afx  s-cluAjr, 
SlAt)  1  vjice  5UTX  pAsbAHjAit^  Ajse,  'rbo  caitjis  ai)  FU]tt]oi)i)  UA15. 

WILLIAM  COTTER  THE  RED,  CECINIT. 

On  tlie  recovery  of  his  friend  and  patron,  Philip  Uniacke,  from 
fever  which  ho  had  in  Youghal,  A.D.,  1737. 

Last  night  as  I  tarried  awhile  on  the  side  of  the  green  hills  and 
smoothed  my  curling  hair, 

I  mused  on  the  downfall  of  the  sages  of  the  Irish  race,  musings 
which  left  me  without  sleep  ; 

A  band  of  fairy  women  flocked  around  me,  and  began  to  tear  their 
copious  tresses, 

They  informed  me  that  one  of  my  friends  was  laid  low,  and  van- 
quished near  a  seaport  fort. 

'  Binn-Hcdair.     The  Hill  of  Howth. 

>  ^UIt)I)eA1lb,  the  Irish  name  for  Uniacke. 


97 

Aine,  who  told  me  many  a  tale  of  woe,  alighted  before  me  like  a  flash 

of  lightning-, 
•'  I  left,"  said  she,  "thy  friend  behind  me,  afflicted  in  a  hard  contest 
By  Atrops  the  wicked,   who  is  out  to-night   with  a  sharp  sword 

unsheathed. 
And  has  wounded  Philip,  who  gave  welcome  to  every  bard — is  it  not 

grief  to  thee,  0,  Gilla  Ruadh  !" 

We  set  all  the  troops  of  Cliodhna  in  pursuit,  together  with  those  of 

Aoibheall  of  Carrick-lea  ; 
Every  one  in  the  host  had  an  arrow  in  his  hand  and  a  javelin  by  his 

side. 
I  started  out  on  the  hills  amongst  the  heroes  prepared  for  vengeful 

battle ; 
We  were  all  mounted  on  slender  steeds  that  could  not  weary  or  fail 

in  speed. 

We  arrayed  a  host  of  heroes,  whose  blood  never  cooled  in  battle,  to 

pursue  Philip, 
And  take  revenge  for  the  worthy  prize   which  the  slavish  crew  of 

Connacht  had  snatched  from  us  ; 
Also  to  try  whether  they  had  a  better  right  to  possess  a  sage  than 

we  had,  who  descended  from  Heber  in  Innis  Fodhla? 
They  who  remained  without  offspring  in  Eire  of  the  kings,  from  the 

days  of  Heremon  the  brave. 

Aine  and  I  overtook  Philip,  long  before  the  aerial  hosts  in  the  flight. 

We  were  opposed  by  Atrops  of  the  great  stroke,  the  enemy  of  the 
human  race ; 

But  our  blows  being  the  quieter  and  heavier,  we  laid  the  foe  pros- 
trate without  pity. 

So  that,  by  our  hands.  Death,  and  many  more  fell  in  the  conflict  of 
the  well-tempered  steel. 

Aine  gave   Philip  a  noble   steed,  swift,  and   not  to  be   wearied  by 

leaping  or  speed. 
This  renovated  the  courage,  valour  and  activity  of  our  hosts  : 
By  the  right  hand  side  of  the  sea  we  went,  until  we  reached  Binn- 

Eadair  of  the  conflicts. 
And  from  thence  we  proceeded  to  Derry  of  Columbkille  in  the  north. 


On  that  day  we  all  assembled  to  engage  in  the  valorous  hard-fought 

conHict, 
Uniacke  and  his  troop  were  most  famous  in  the  fight,  thinning  the 

ranks  of  the  northern  foe  ; 
Stout  and  courageously  fought  the  Dalcassians,  who  came  with  the 

tribe  of  Eoghan  of  the  routs. 
And  that  day  the  enemy  were  left  dead  and  mangled ;  and  retreated 

like  the  ebbing  tide. 

The  battle  over,  we  halted  at  home,  where  we  feasted  in  plenty  amid 

pleasure. 
We  quaffed  a  thousand  and  one  casks  with  regards  to  the  man  who 

was  victor  ; 
"We  poured  out  our  strength  in  wreaking  vengeance   on   the  race 

unaccustomed  to  hospitality. 
And  every  true  man,  who  was  engaged  in  routing  the  fallen  foe,  I 

think  I  should  not  name. 

Our  fairy  hosts  marched  forth  in  glee,  in  peace,  in  might,  so  wisely ; 
They  who  aided  us  to  win  the  fight — to  carry  away  the  crops  of  the 

people  of  Oonnacht,  on  account  of  the  quarrel; 
Our  visit  was   destructive,  and  we  did  not  delay  till  we  came  to 

Youghal, — 
To  the  port  of  full  goblets,  the  comfortable  mansion  of  Uniacke. 

There  was  poured  for  us,  like  waves  of  a  stormy  sea,  white  sack  and 

other  liquors  without  grudge, 
I  will  not  mention  the  quantity  of  punch  the  most  palatable  of  all  in 

the  wide  world  ; 
Three  months  and  more  we  stayed  with  Philip  draining  glasses,  with 

music  to  our  ears, 
One  and  twenty  farewells  were  bade  him  when  the  company  were 

parting. 

It  would  be  too  burthcnsome  to  the  reader  to  give  all  the 
extracts  relative  to  the  Leannan  Sighe  which  we  collected  for 
this  notice  ;  suffice  it,  that  at  the  battle  of  Ciontarf,  Aoibhcall  is 
recorded  in  the  MS.  to  have  promised  Dubhhiiiig  O'llartagan, 
lier  favorite,  the  span  of  two  hundred  years  of  pleasant  life  in 
her   company,    if  he  would  refrain   from  joining   his   friend 


99 

Murcliadh  in  the  battle.  O'Hartagan  refused  the  olFer  througli 
motives  of  honor,  though  his  Leannan  Sighe  foretold  to  hira, 
the  evil  consequences  of  engaging  the  Danes  on  that  day. 
The  following  extract  taken  from  a  MS.  account  of  that 
battle,  made  by  John  Murphy  of  Eaithineach,  in  the  county  of 
Cork,  A.D.  1720,  will  show  the  behef  in  the  existence  of  the 
Leannan  Sighe,  professed  at  that  period : 

"  2l|*  Í  ■[■]T)  iiA]]t  A5Uf  A]n7|*||t  civfilA  i)iiblA]i;3  0'b-2l|t- 
z'^]r)  (.1.  |'io5u]8e  bo  b]  bo  cAitA^b  A5  2t)uncv\6),  A|t  Ar)  rt)^5 

of  C]OT)T)  AT)  CACA,  AJUf  é  fíV  6lOTÍ76<V  O  |l]5  Q:>-\]X]0^)X)  le  CjAO 

b'^]rr)]']\i -no]r\)e  x]i).  "Csx^il^,  A  leAi;r)i\T)  livt^conjAccAC  ^tja 
frocAiit  Ar)r),  .1.  2loibioll  C\)]iA]-^e  Lé]ze,  A-^uy  bo  cui|i  at? 

pe^O  pjA  of  A  C]Ot)T)  rOUjt  1)iV|l  p A0Tt7  AT:)rbÚlT)  A]C|,  AJUf  ]tÓ 
101J]-A15  CIII5A  AT)  C-fluA5  1-OcIaT)T)AC  IT)  ÍV]C  A  ]lA]b  2t)u|lCA& 
A5   Clljt  at;    iV]|V,    A5Uf    bA    b-^^bAl    a    COTT)Iat)T)    A]t    |tOCCU]T) 

Aft  5uaIuit)T)  2t)bu]icAi6  60.  2lf  aiji)  fit)  a  búbAi|tc  2t)u]tcA6 
A5  féACAfT)  flJA  citt)C]oll  A^t  5AC  le|C  'bAft  I1OT17,'  A]t  fé, 
'  Ab  clu]T)in)  piAjTr;  A3Uf  foritATTi  bufUeAÓA  «DbublAjij^  ) 
2l]tcA5iviTj,  A5uf  t;í  frAiqn)  é  f eft)-'  '  2lf  cuff  bArbfA*  (A|t 
*DúblAiT)5,  A5  ce]l5ioijT)  AT)  bftA]c  be),   '  i^ac  b]A6  at)  bioij 

f  AT)  A]t  TTJO  COfrpf  A  50  blt^C    bO    bA]T)feA6    A    ftílÓA|tC    6]0C  ; 

A5uf  r|ié]5  bo  coxvIavv  juf  b-c|tAf bA,  A5iif  ioi)fu]5eATt)  At) 

TT)i^5  A]l  A  b-f  U]l  2l0fb]0ll  of  CjOT)»:)  AT)  CACA,  A5Uf  bo  5eAb- 

An7  fséAÍA  loniÓA  uaicj.'  jf  at)i;  f]T),  |xó  ioi;fU|5e<\bA|t  ]t) 
iv]c  A  jiA^b  ^loibjoll,  A5uf  bo  beAi;i;Ai5eAbA|t  b],  f  jteA5fiAf 
2lo]b]oll  ^'ivt)  5-cuTr)^6  5-céAbr)A,  A5Uf  a  fCAÓ  a  bubAffic. 
'  Ca  CAffibe  Sn]c  a  2i)buT^CA6,'  Afi  f],  '  ceAcc  curt)  aj) 
CACA  fo  At)]05  ;  offi  bo  seAbA^jt  fé^T)  A5Uf  bo  tt^ac  "Cofit- 
ÓeAlbAC,  A3Uf  B|t]AT)  BojtoiTbe,  A5iif  Coi;u]i;5  tijac  t)0T)- 
cuAiij,  Ajuf  "CaÓ^  0'CeAllAi5>  A5uf  n^oit^tj  e]le  bikf  At^ps ; 
A5Uf  bo  befbif  f5éAlA  A5AT17  ^ie   a  tJ-n^bf^T)   6tt]z  bA  rt)A6 

ATT)    ÓATb     é  :'    A5Uf    A    bubA]ltC    A1)    IaO],    A5Uf    b'f  fteA5A]]t 

2t)uftcA6  Í  : — 


100 

2lo]b.  '  3é  "MIC  bo  rbiroeAc  a  5íií^6, 
He  r)-bul  bo  civc  |*At)  5-CAC  ; 
l)-A5Ai6  ^eAÍ  njAfi  mAoc-f  fxóll  6eAfi3, 
i)o  cIaocIaÓ  a  bejlb  'j-a  6aic. 

2t)u|i.  'í)']t;»)eófu]t>i)  bu]c  ■\io]n)  5le]c, 
556^1  beA3  A5uf  é  KPT^i 
M]  b'é  eA5lA  TT)0  cu]jtp  t^éjr), 
"pív  beAjtA  boTTj'  5t)é  bul  biort}. 

•  iD'iv  b-cuic]n7r)e,  cu]cpi6  3<^llli 

2l5u]-  b]Aib  3<^oi6]l  A5  |to]T)t7  A|x  5-cUc 
H]  cívítpu]5eA|t  50  b-c]'  AT)  bjtiKc, 
21  b-cuicpeAÓ  lern'  \'A]n)  y^v)  5-CAc. 

2lo]b.  '2t)Ai|-e,  A  Il)bíit»l^l')3í  j'eACAji)  Ar)  cac, 

3«]*  ^ÍJ  Tr)Alb]t>  A   TT)<XftAC  j 

i)o  5eAbA]|x  6iv  c&Ab  bljASAjt)  bo  fté, 
2lcc  |-eAcu]t)  CAc  Aotj  Ue. 

i)ub.   '  Mi  C]ubA|tf  A  2^uiica6  n)ó]x, 
2l|t  Aj|i5iob  t)ic  ATji  ófi; 
2l5U|-  ^)í  c|té]5]on)  n^o  bl^6, 

21^  AT)  éA5  1)AC  ]-eACA1)CA|X. 

*  Ofi  't  éA|t|tA  cIat)I)a  t-iqiic, 

'CbiiS  2t)iiftcA6  CAji  ceAT^T)  rt70  co]^ip; 
'Do  béA|tf  A  A1J  co}xp  |-é]tT)]&e  ]*eAt)3, 

"CAfl  CeAT)1)  TT7JC  A]]Tb|tÍ5  6]  flCATJT). 

2lo]b.  '  "CiqcpiO  2t)u]tcAÓj  cu]cf]6  Bit]AT), 
T^ujcpib  u]li  A]t  Aoi)  jxiAi) ; 
Ba  6eA|\3  b)A|*  At?  roix3  An)i^|tAc 
Ob'  c-puiln  30  n^ófióíxlAc/  " 


101 

This  was  the  precise  period  of  time  when  Dubhlaing  O'Hartagan, 
a  fairy,  who  was  the  friend  of  Murchadh,  happened  to  be  standing 
on  the  plain  close  to  the  battlefield:  he  had  been  along  time  expelled 
in  disgrace  by  the  king  of  Ireland.  Aoibheall  of  Carrick-lea,  his 
most  potent  Leannan  Sighe,  stood  before  him,  and  enveloped  him 
with  the  Fcadh  Fia,  because  he  would  not  consent  to  remain  with 
her.  He  rushed  into  the  throng  of  the  hosts  of  Lochlan,  where 
Murchadh  was  engaged  in  conflict ;  and  wonderful  was  the  havoc 
which  he  made  when  he  came  to  the  side  of  Murchadh.  Murchadh 
having  loc^ked  around  him  on  every  side,  said,  "  Methinks  I  hear  the 
sound  and  echo  of  the  blows  of  Dubhlaing  O'Hartagan,  but  I  can- 
not see  himself."  "It  is  my  duty,"  exclaimed  Dubhlaing  (casting 
off  the  garment),  '♦  that  such  a  covering  shall  never  envelop  my 
body  since  it  prevents  you  from  seeing  me  :  give  over  the  conflict  for 
awhile,  and  let  us  go  to  the  plain  over  the  battle  field  where  Aoib- 
heall is,  and  we  shall  obtain  much  information  from  her."  They, 
thereupon  proceeded  to  the  place  where  Aoibheall  was,  and  saluted 
her.  Aoibheall  returned  the  salutation,  and  said,  "  What  benefit  is 
it  to  you,  O  Murchadh,  to  engage  in  the  battle  this  day,  since  you 
yourself,  your  son  Toirdealbhach,  Brian  Boroimhe,  Conning  son  of 
Donchuan,  Tadhg  O'Kelly,  and  many  others  shall  be  slain  today. 
I  have  other  news  to  communicate,  were  it  the  proper  time."  She 
then  repeated  the  following  Lay,  and  Murchadh  responded  ;  — 


Aoibheall.    Though  great  is  thy  courage,  my  love. 
When  the  forces  march  to  the  battle  ; 
Thy  bright  face  that  glows  with  the  hue  of  soft  red  satin. 
Its  form  and  colour  shall  change. 

Murchadh.  I  could  tell  even  before  the  struggle, 
A  short  tale,  and  a  true  ; 
The  fear  for  my  own  person 
Shall  never  cause  the  change  of  my  countenance. 


If  we  fall,  the  strangers  shall  also  fall  ; 
And  the  Gael  shall  share  their  fortresses — 
They  shall  not  be  numbered  till  the  day  of  doom. 
The  warriors  that  shall  fall  bv  mv  hand  in  battle. 


102 

Aoibh'iaU.    Yet  still,  O  Dubhlaing,  avoid  the  battle, 
Until  the  morning  of  the  morrow  ; 
Thou  shalt  enjoy  two  hundred  years  in  life, 
Only  avoid  the  battle  but  for  one  day. 

Dubhlaing.  I  would  not  forsake  Murchadh  the  Great, 
Either  for  silver  or  for  gold  ; 
Neither  will  I  sacrifice  my  honour. 
To  fly  that  death  that  csnnot  be  avoided. 

The  gold  and  steeds  of  Clanna  Luirc, 
Murchadh  would  give  as  ransom  for  ray  body  ; 
I  will  sacrifice  that  slender  gentle  body, 
For  sake  of  the  son  of  Eire's  chief  king. 

AuihheaU.    Murchadh  shall  fall,  Brian  shall  fall, 
All  shall  fall  in  the  same  career  ; 
'Tis  gory  the  field  shall  be  to-morrow. 
With  thy  haughty  blood  ! 

Like  the  Leannan  Sighe  in  our  text,  the  fairy  Leaniians 
were  always  believed  to  be  jealous  beings;  and  there  are 
numerous  instances  of  their  jealousy  and  vengeance  recorded. 
Many  of  them  are  said  to  have  entertained  a  passion  for  favo- 
rites of  the  human  race.  Aoibheall  of  Carrick-lea  is  said  to 
have  fallen  in  love  with  a  young  chieftain  of  Munster,  and  to 
have  assumed  the  shape  and  appearance  of  a  cowherd's 
daughter,  named  Sheela  Ni  Maranan,  the  better  to  accomplish 
her  desire.  She  served  some  years  in  the  capacity  of  cinder- 
wench,  kitchen-maid,  cook,  and  at  length  rose  by  her  assiduity 
and  good  conduct  to  the  important  station  of  lady's-maid,  in 
which  position  she  obtained  the  opportunity  of  becoming 
acquainted  with  the  object  of  her  love.  Many  strange 
stories  are  told  of  the  love  of  these  creatures  for  mortals, 
and  of  the  talents  bestowed  by  them  upon  their  favorites. 
The  Leannan  Sighe  was  also  the  inspiring  muse  of  the  Irisli 
poet :  and  I  appeal  to  all  who  are  acquainted  with  our  verna- 
cular literature,  whether  they  have  ever  heard  more  tender 


103 

words,  or  impnssioned  language  than  such  as  are  found  in  the 
addresses  of  the  Irish  bards  to  the  Leannan  Sighe. 

There  has  always  been,  as  we  have  already  observed,  a  class 
of  people  in  Ireland,  whose  interest  it  was  to  keep  alive  among 
the  people  the  belief  in  the  power  of  the  fairies.  These  were 
the  Bacachs,  who  in  many  respects  resembled  the  gypsies  of 
other  countries.  They  had  meetings  from  time  to  time,  at 
which  new  members  were  admitted  into  the  fraternity,  and 
initiated  into  their  mysteries.  They  conferred  degrees  by 
driving  a  brass  nail  into  the  fleasg  or  wand  of  the  graduate, 
by  which  he  became  qualified  to  follow  the  profession,  and 
exercise  its  mystic  arts. 

The  behef  in  the  fairies,  and  in  the  power  of  the  charms  of 
the  Bacachs  to  avert  their  evil  influences,  was  by  no  means 
confined  in  past  times  to  the  lower  classes  of  society,  as  appears 
from  the  following  anecdote  given  by  the  learned  Ware,  of 
Dr.  Lesly,  Bishop  of  Raphoe  : — 

"  John  Lesly,  Bishop  of  Raphoe,  A.D.  1633,  relates  of  A 
notable  Deliverance  then  happened  in  his  Family  of  a  Youth 
sent  to  him  for  help,  who  was  Infested  with  Evil  Spirits, 
(commonly  called  Fairies)  and  often  carried  away  in  the  air 
over  tops  of  houses,  who  was  recovered  and  brought  home  by 
God's  merciful  return  to  the  prayers  put  up  for  him,  the  whole 
Story  was  so  full  of  strange  passages  before  so  many  witnesses, 
some  whereof  are  yet  living,  that  King  C  I.  commanded  (my 
Father,  says  the  his  son)  the  bishop  to  send  him 

the  whole  account  in  writing,  which  he  did ;  but  it  was  lost 
when  papers  of  greatest  Concernment  and  privatest  corres- 
pondence could  not  escape.  The  Boy  was  at  length  Recovered, 
so  as  to  be  no  more  molested ;  and  bound  apprentice  to  a 
haberdasher,  and,  I  believe,  still  alive."  Ware's  Bishops, 
p.  56,  ed.  1705. 

A  similar  story  is  told  of  the  Earl  of  Orrery's  butler,  who 
is  said  to  have  been  persecuted  in  his  lordship's  ball  room 


104 

bj  these  imaginary  beings.  There  were  among  the  company 
some  high  dignitaries  of  the  estabhshecl  church,  and  among 
the  guests  the  celebrated  Valentine  Greatrakes,  who  had 
obtained  great  notoriety  in  consequence  of  the  miraculous 
cures  which  he  was  said  to  be  able  to  perform  by  the  imposi- 
tion of  his  hand ;  but  all  their  united  efforts  could  not  save 
the  victim  from  the  persecution  of  his  invisible  enemies. 

It  would  be  a  very  interesiing  work  to  compare  the  many 
strange  rites,  ceremonies,  and  superstitions  which  prevailed 
amongst  our  peasantry  but  a  few  years  since,  and  which  are 
still  preserved,  more  or  less,  in  some  districts  of  the  country, 
with  those  which  are  found  amongst  various  oriental  nations, 
and  amongst  the  Eed  Indians  of  America.  There  are  abundant 
materials  for  carrying  out  such  an  investigation,  but  the  neces- 
sarily confined  limits  of  an  Introduction  would  not  permit  us 
to  do  anything  like  justice  to  the  subject :  and  therefore  we 
will  only  remark,  en  passant,  that  the  superstitious  doctrines 
and  observances,  which  prevail,  or  have  prevailed  till  very 
recently,  in  Ireland,  bear  a  most  wonderful  resemblance  to 
those  which  exist  in  Eastern  nations  :  a  resemblance  which  it 
seems  hard  to  account  for,  and  whicii  is  regarded  by  some  of 
our  antiquarians  as  a  collateral  evidence,  of  no  little  weight,  in 
favour  of  the  theory  of  the  Eastern  extraction  of  the  abori- 
gines of  Ireland. 

But  though  our  space  forbids  us  to  enter  any  further  into 
this  question  here,  still  we  cannot  refrain  from  making  a  few 
observations  respecting  some  of  those  supernatural  beings,  with 
whose  supposed  power  and  influence  the  superstitious  prac- 
tices of  many  of  our  own  people  are  connected.  Of  these 
beings,  the  Bean  Sighe  (Anglicc  Banshee),  is  one  of  the  most 
remarkable.  The  present  theory  respecting  her,  is,  that  she 
was  once  a  mortal,  but  that  having  been  carried  away  by  the 
fairies,  she  continues  to  dwell  with  them,  and  still  retains  such 
an  interest  in  the  descendants  of  her  human  kindred,  that  she 


T05 

never  fails  to  announce,  bj  her  mournful  wail,  the  approach  of 
any  great  raisfortunej  but  especially  of  death,  when  it  is  im- 
pending over  any  member  of  the  family.  In  some  parts  of 
Ireland  the  Bean  Sighe  is  called  Bjve,  and  Baban,  both 
which  names  seem  to  be  corruptions  of  Bi\6b  (pron.  bawv)  by 
which  appellation  this  being  Avas  known  in  ancient  times. 
This  word  is  probably  derived  from  bívó  (death),  of  which  the 
Badhbh  was  so  often  the  unwelcome  messenger,  and  this  is  the 
more  likely,  because  the  Irish  word  for  a  raven  is  also  bínób, 
and  its  croaking  is  generally  regarded  as  an  omen  of  death. 
Many  strange  stories  are  told  about  the  croaking  of  the  raven, 
and  many  a  strange  incantation  is  chaunted  to  guard  against 
the  evil  which  it  is  believed  to.  portend.  The  Bean  Sighe 
and  the  Badhbh  would  appear  to  be  diiferent  names  for  the 
same  being  :  the  former,  by  which  she  is  now  known,  being 
perhaps  an  euphemism  for  the  latter,  analogous  to  tliat  of 
EiJjMív/Sfí  for  'e^ívvís  among  the  Greeks  of  old. 

The  belief  in  the  T^A]|*e  or  "  Fetch"  prevails  not  only  in 
Ireland,  but  also  amongst  our  Celtic  brethren  of  Scotland,  and 
has  been  so  frequently  brought  before  the  public  in  the  many 
strange  stories  told  in  confirmation  of  it,  that  we  need  not 
here  dwell  on  what  is  already  fannliar  to  nearly  all  our  readers. 

That  a  somewhat  similar  belief  is  held  in  other  countries 
also,  appears  from  the  curious  story  which  we  here  give  as 
extracted  from  a  London  periodical : — 

«A  GERMAN  LEGEND. 

"  The  following  extraordinary  letter  appears  in  the  German 
papers  : 

'  The  Queen  Theresa  of  Bavaria  died  of  cholera,  at  Munich,  on 
October  26,  1854,  as  already  known.  I  hasten  to  communicate  to 
your  readers  the  following  highly  interesting  and  affecting  details,  of 
which  I  can  guarantee  the  exact  veracity. 

'  On  the  6th  of  October,  between  eight  and  nine  o'clock  in  the 
evening,  two  princes  of  the  Bavarian  royal  family,  equal  in  birth  and 
8 


106 

relationship,  were  seated  at  tea  in  a  room  of  the  Aschaffenburgh 
Palace.     A  folding  door  divides  thÍ3  room  from  another  apartment, 
and  a  smaller  papered  door  separates  it  from    the   ante-chamber 
usually  occupied  by  the   domestics  in  waiting.     Of  a  sudden  the 
latter  door  opened,  and  a  lady  covered  with  a  black  veil  entered  and 
made  a  low  curtsey  before  the  two  illustrious  personages.     One  of 
the  princes,  no  little  astounded,  asked  the  lady  if  she  were  invited  to 
tea,  and  pointing  to  the  folding-door  leading  into  the  tea-room — 
where  the  Queen  and  ladies  were  assembled — gave  her  to  understand 
that  she  should  enter.     No  reply,  and  the  lady  vanished  through 
the  small  papered  door.      Both  the   illustrious    personages   were 
extremely  agitated  by  this  wonderful  apparition  and  its  mysterious 
disappearance.     One  of  them  immediately  hastened  to  the   ante- 
chamber, to  enquire  of  the  servants  about  the  mysterious  figure. 
No  one  had  seen  it  come  or  go  except  Asyat,  Queen  Theresa's  body 
hussar,  who  had  met  it  in  the  passage.  No  other  trace  could  be  dis- 
covered.    Both  illustrious  persons  narrated  what  had  occurred,  and 
it  soon  came  to  Queen  Theresa's  ears,  and  she  was  so  overwhelmed 
thereby  that  she  became  greatly  indisposed,  and  wept   during  the 
whole  night.     The  journey  to  Munich  was  fixed  for  the  following 
day.     All  the  luggage  and  half  the  servants  were  on  the  road.     To 
remain  longer  at  Aschaffenburgh  was   scarcely  possible.      Queen 
Theresa  was  filled  with  the  most  sorrowful  forebodings.     She  asked 
several  times  if  it  were  not  possible  to  remain  here.     It  would  be 
too  painful  for  her  to  quit  AschaflFenburgh  this  time.     The  myste- 
rious and  ominous  black  lady  glided  constantly  before  her  imagin- 
ation.    Somewhat  calmed,  at  length,  by  judicious  observations,  she 
at  last  sorrowfully  commenced  the  journey,  which  it  was  not  possible 
to  postpone.     But  still,  at  Munich,  where  she  was  at  first  slightly 
indisposed,    but   recovered,    her  mind  was   pre-occupied    with    the 
apparition  of  the  black  lady,  of  whom  she  spoke  to  many  persons 
with  trembling  apprehension.     She  was  sought  to  be  consoled  by 
saying  that  the  sentries  on  duty  had  seen  the  lady  enter  the  palace. 
But  all  was  in  vain.     The  idea  that  the  apparition  of  the  figure  had 
a  sinister  foreboding  for  her  life  never  quitted  her  mind.     Twenty 
days  after  the  mysterious  evening.  Queen   Theresa  lay  a  corpse  in 
Wittelbaeher  Palace.     I  took  the  above  narrative  verbatim  from  the 
statement  of  the  best  informed  persons,  before  I  had  the  slightest 
suspicion  of  the  queen's  death.  The  two  illustrious  persons  narrated 
the  circumstances  of  the  apparition  minutely  to  several  persons,  so 


107 

that  the  whole  town  heard  of  it  next  morning  ;  and  on  the  same 
evening  tho  whole  personnel  of  the  palace  and  the  soldiers  on  duty 
were  strictly  examined,  and  requested  to  state  all  they  knew  of  the 
matter — a  proof  that  the  occurrence  cannot  be  set  down  among 
ordinary  tales." 

But  to  return  to  the  Badhbh.  It  may  be  well  to  give  some 
extracts  from  ancient  MSS.,  to  shew  what  was  the  light  in 
which  she  was  regarded  by  our  Pagan  ancestors,  and  in  what 
way  she  was  supposed  to  interfere,  and  to  influence,  the 
course  of  human  affairs.  It  is  related  that  wlien  Meidhbh,  the 
great  queen  of  Connacht,  set  out  on  her  expedition  against  tlie 
Ultonians,  she  met  with  a  Badhbh,  who  predicted  to  her,  that 
her  expedition  would  be  attended  with  great  bloodshed  ;  as 
found  in  the  MS.  account  of  the  Tain  Bo  Chuailgne,  pp. 
58,  59. 

""CivijAC  ^)eAÓb  A|t  cúl<v  bo  |xí6]|-]  co  ^aca  i;]  |io  b'^oij- 
3f)AtT)  lé],  éAÓoí;,  Aot)  beAt)  poft  ^eAjtCA^f  at)  CAjtbAic  itjA 
|:A|ifiA6.  jf  An)lA  bo  h]  At)  ID5Í1;  fit)  ociii-  yiytce  cojxrunte 
ocu|*  cloiÓeArb  y]o^)x)h]i\^]r)x)e  ^r)A  X'^^xr)  óe^f  coijxx  j-eACc 
i)A]fle  bo  8eA|t5  óji,  ocuf  b|tAc  bAlUc  bjieAc-uAictje  uji^pe, 
ocuf  beAlj  corbbui5e  ^r  ^^  n}-b]tAC  of  a  hyi\x]X)x)e:  5t)ú|f- 

CO|lC]tA  CA01TÍ7-01t)eAC    lé],    béAbA    tJÚAÓA    T)eAri)At>bA    AjCC  ; 

bAji  leAC  bA  f  jtAf  b'fjotjij  T)eATr)U]t)e  ]tolA  t)a  ceAi;i) ;  a 
|:]AcIa  bA  copt)ú]l  ffilA  ijuaÓ  pA|tcAir)5;  a  beul  bA  h]-\}X)-\ 
cfte  fftjA  ceubA  ii)-beAT)i)  c]toc  A5  fP)]"?  b]i;r)-pó3ítA  a  50CA 
ocuf  A5  CA]i)  ]0|ilAb|tA ;  se^le  r|i6  ftjeAccA  i)AOt)-oi6ce, 
CA]óle  A  ct)eif  |*eAC  a  beibeA^  50  feAccAfx  a  cfioijée  ^eAbA 
f^c-jjeAÍA  le  \\}-^\)e  co]t|iA,  le  pole  p]0i)i)b>T6c  poftófiÓA  pu|i|tA, 
ceojiA  cpiUri  A  pule  po  1JA  ceAi)i?,  cpillfi  i/ojle  cAp  a  b^jf 
p]A]t  30  Tt)-beiT)eA5  a  colpA  ^i^a  b]Ai5.  peACAf  2t)eA8b 
pAppA.  'C]A  tio  %\)]X]  ^^  ni?»  <^  IfSÍof/  ^n  2t)eAÓb,  'A3 
CA]|i6eAlbA6  bo  leAf  a  ocuf  bo  líocuf  a  acív,  ocup  A5  cioi;ól 
ceicpe  i)oU-cúi3e  T)-6ippr)T)  leAcfA  30  cpíce  t)-UIa6  a]i 
ceAijp  Cívt)  Bo  CbuA^lstje.'     'Cja  un?  a  ij  beAT)AO]fi  p|t) 


108 

b^njyA?'  A|t  2t)eA&bj  '  y]\  a  njóft  í\6bAft  Óait),'  A|t  ai)  itj^ion, 
cAOoi),  ' bPAi;corbA]ll  bo  bA  rbuii;c]|i  ]'],'  aji  f].  'C]A  bo 
rr)0  ^t)U]r)z]]tr]  cu  ?'  A|i  2t)eA6b.  '"pejclii)!)  bAnpivjo  fíoc 
Rao  CfiuACA|i)  n)e]*|/  Afi  ]•].  '  2t)A]c,  a  pbejcljub  bAi)j:(\i6/ 
Alt  2l)eA6b.  '  C]C>t)ijii|*  bo  c]  cu  iv[t  |'liiAi5-r)]  ?'  '  2lb  c|u 
poit6eATt5  |ro|t|tA,  Ab  c]u  |iua6/  aji  j*].  '  21ca  CoucubAfi 
li)A  ceAf  A  ^)-Q>An}l^^)V,'  ^T^  2t)eA6b,  '  ocuy  ii<\t)CAbA|i 
ttj'cacIaca  n)G]y]  uaÓAj  ocuy  v]  b-pu]l  v]  uArbi)Al5irnfi  ]í]A 
UUcAi^e;  Acc  AbAT|i  ^ijiiurje  A  f})^]t\]ijb  \)M)i:!\]6?'  A|i 
2t)eA8b,  '  2lb  c]u  po|i&eA|t5,  Ab  cju  |tuA6/  a|i  x'\.  2lbu- 
bAific  2t)eA6b,   '  aca  corbr5]tAi6  6att7A]I)  2t)ACA  tt)AC  Coi)- 

CubAl|t  A  1)-jl)r)]f  CorT)f5ftA]6  pA  CeAf,  OCUf  |lAUCACA|t 
n^'eAclACA    CU5ATnfAj      OCU]*    X)']     b-^u^l    T)i    eA3lA]tr>]*l    |11A 

UllcA]5e.  2lcc  AbAjii  pi0|*  >*tMon?,  ^  pbeicl|i;b  bA7)pi\i6, 
50  b-VAice    A]i   I'luAij-ue  ?'      '  2lb   c)a   ]:o]\6eA]i-^,  Ab  ciu 

|tUA6/    A]l  ]•'].       '  2lcA    CeAlcAjl    TT)]C    Uí5CeACA]|l    A  I)-"!)»!) 

Ti)A  ccA|*/  A|t  2t)eA6b,  '  ocuf  ^)]  b-puil  i;i  eAjlArtjAOib  |t]A 
UllcAi5e  ;  acc  AbAi|i  píftiijije  a  ^^bcicl^ub  bAt)p;\]6  ?'  '  2lb 
c\u  í.'0]i6eAft5,  Ab  c]u  ]tiiA6/  a|i  ]*^,  '  V]  bA  l|on7|*A  at)  t>i 
bjA  bo  leAC|-A  fiv/  A71  2t)eA8b  :  *0||i  5  b^A^b  ].'i|i  6i|t|0i)i) 

A  l/AOI)bAlle,  blAjb  beAbcA  OCUf*  10]t5lA  OCU|*  fCA]UUCO]tCA 
OACO|lJtA  UtT)  COrbllOCCAjI)    CO|-AC    1)0    beiJlC    ÍVC    1)0    AbA1)I)A  ; 

VÓ  UI1)  ceAb50ir)  n)ui5co,  i)0  éA5A,  no  |!]AbAi5e,  i)0  f-iAOAii)- 

While  Meadhbh  reiiuiincd  behind  thens,  she  beheld  a  sight  th;it 
filled  her  with  astonishment,  namely,  a  female  form  standing  by  the 
shaft  of  the  chariot  before  her.  The  young  woman  appeared  with 
twenty  brightly  polished  daggers  and  swords,  together  with  seven 
braids  for  the  dead,  of  bright  gold,  in  her  right  hand  ;  a  speckled 
garment  of  green  ground,  fastened  by  a  bodkin  at  the  breast  under 
her  fair,  ruddy  countenance,  enveloped  her  form ;  her  teeth  were  so 
new  and  bright  that  they  appeared  like  pearls  artistically  set  in  her 
gums  ;  like  the  ripe  berry  of  the  mountain  ash  were  her  lips  ; 
sweeter  was  her  voice  than  the  notes  of  the  gentle  harp  strings  when 
touched  l>y  the  most  skilful  finger,  and  emitting  the  most  enchanting 


109 

melody  ;  whiter  than  the  snow  of  one  night  was  her  skin  ;  and  beau- 
tiful to  behold  were  her  garments  which  reached  to  her  bright  well- 
moulded  bright-nailed  feet ;  copious  tresses  of  her  tendrilled  glossy 
golden  hair  hung  before,  while  others  dangled  behind  and  reached 
the  calf  of  her  leg.  Meadhbh  looked  at  her  with  astonishment. 
"  What  art  thou  doing  here,  young  woman  ?"  enquired  Meidhbh 
'*  I  am  a  foreboding  of  thy  success  and  dismay,  and  collecting  the 
men  of  the  four  great  provinces  of  Eire  to  join  thee  against  Ulster 
on  thy  expedition  of  the  Tain-Bo-Cuailgne,"  replied  she.  "  Why 
art  thou  doing  this  for  me  ?"  asked  Meidhbh.  "  Because  it  concerns 
me  much,  since  I  am  the  hand-maid  of  thy  people,"  replied  the  young 
woman.  "  Who  of  my  people  art  thou?"  said  Meidhbh.  "I  am 
Feithlinn,  the  prophetess  of  the  Fairy  Rath  of  Cruachan,"  said  she. 
«* 'Tis  well.  Oh  Feithlinn  the  prophetess!"  said  Meidhbh;  "but 
what  dost  thou  foresee  concerning  our  hosts  .''"  "  I  foresee  blood- 
shed (comingj  upon  them,  I  foresee  power,"  replied  she.  "  Cun- 
chubhar  is  under  dread  in  Emania  (Ea.nhain)  ;  for  my  couriers 
(spies)  have  arrived  from  him  ;  there  is  nothing  to  alarm  me  with 
respect  to  the  Ultonians  ;  but  speak  truth,  O  Feithlinn  the  prophet- 
ess," said  Meidhbh.  "  I  foresee  bloodshed,  I  foresee  power,"  said 
she.  Meidhbh  said,  "  Comhsgraidh  of  Eamhain  of  Macha,  son  of 
Conchubhar,  is  under  dread  in  Innis  Comhsgraidh  ;  for  my  couriers 
have  arrived,  and  I  fear  nothing  from  the  Ultonians  ;  but  speak 
prophecy,  O  Feithlinn  the  prophetess,  that  our  hosts  may  know  it." 
"  I  foresee  bloodshed,  I  foresee  power,"  said  she.  *'  Cealtar  son  of 
Uitechar  is  in  his  fortress  in  dread,  and  I  fear  nothing  respecting 
the  Ultonians ;  but  speak  truth,  O  Feithlinn  the  prophetess,"  said 
Meidhbh.  "  I  foresee  bloodshed,  I  foresee  power,"  said  she.  "  To 
me  belongs  nothing  of  it,  be  it  thine,"  cried  Meidhbh  ;  "  for  when 
the  men  of  Eire  shall  be  assembled  in  one  place,  debates,  skirmishes, 
and  unexpected  collisions  will  occur  amongst  them,  respecting  the 
privilege  of  leading  the  front  ranks,  or  defending  the  entrance  of 
a  river,  or  attack  on  a  ford,  or  engaging  first  on  the  battle  field,  in 
a  struggle." 

Even  at  the  present  clay,  the  behef  in  the  existence  of  the 
Bean  Sighe  is  far  from  being  extinct,  nor  is  it  altogether 
confined  to  the  lower  classes  of  society.  In  the  parish  of 
Modeligo,  and  townland  of  Mountain  Castle,  in  the  county  of 


no 

Waterford,  so  late  as  the  beginning  of  the  present  century,  a 
Bailhbh,  Bo  Chaointe,  or  Bean  Siglie,  was  in  the  habit  of 
appearing  just  before  the  death  of  any  member  of  the  old 
Milesian  families  resident  in  the  parish.  Her  chair,  which  was 
made  of  rough  stone,  was  placed  on  an  elevation  over  the  river 
Einnisk,  on  the  lands  of  a  small  farmer  named  Brown,  and 
opposite  the  lands  of  Mr.  Edmund  O'Daly,  of  Farnane,  on  the 
other  side  of  the  river — and,  unless  it  has  been  removed  very 
lately,  the  Bean  Sighe's  chair  is  still  to  be  seen  there.  There 
are  hundreds  of  persons,  now  living,  who  have  heard  her  mourn- 
ful wails,  and  who  can  bear  testimony  to  the  warning  by  whicli 
she  heralded  the  death  of  those  only,  who  belonged  to  the  old 
Milesian  stock. 

The  following  story  of  a  Bean  Sighe,  who  came  to  the  aid  of 
her  favorite  champion,  when  in  distress,  is  taken  from  the 
MS.  Tain  Bo  Cuailgue  (p.  114),  which  is  now  being  prepared 
for  publication,  having  been  presented  to  the  Society  by  the 
Eev.  Patrick  Lamb,  P.P.  of  Newtownhamilton  :  it  will  show 
the  antiquity  of  the  belief  in  the  Leannan  Sighe. 

"  Daijajc  ]A|t]ioTi)  At)  n)ó]i  ^l]0■^^]^)  .t.  6Aíin}Aif,  b'AcnjlUe 
CucuIaiui;,  ai)  c|tiv  bo  be^c  AC  cori)|tAC  ^jt^  atj  be5  ÍAec  A|t 
Tajt)  Bo  CuA]l5i)e.  'Caijajc  iATi|ion)  ai)  ^]0-^'>>]r)  ^i)  t]1)  ^ 
-p|Ocr  fArJ7A]fce  ■\:]me  o  be]\i^e  50  I.  yAtt^Aifc  u]n7pe,  Acuf 
|ioi)u  fioubfiu]ui)e  ]Z]]i  5ACA  biv  ]*at17A]|*c,  50  T)-búbAi|tc  ai> 
bAT)c|tAcc  5eA|*  Acuf  Aft  n)-beAT)r)  f:o]t  CuculAfi)i;  bo  c]- 
5ccbc  5AI)  fíAf'bA  5A1;  rt)]lle6  f:o|t|iA.  <Do  cbui|t  CucuIaitji) 
]iocA  At)  u|tcA|]i  bi,  5U|i  h]x]y  jiofCA  i;a  ivó]í  |i]051)a.  T>A^)C^]c 
.1.  At)  rt)ó|t  jijosAii)  fi)  f ]r>  ]  ]tiocbc  e]-cA]T)T)ci  bujbe  le^y  ai) 
c-f|tuc;  c]cci6  ]A]t]ton)  'y  ]i)  \]\)i)  co  ]tof  frr)i)Afc  fA  cbofA 
Coi)bculA]i)i).  2lt;  -pAcc  ]to  bA]  CucuIa]T)u  ac  a  bicuft  be 
Tto  50]i)  loT)i)  u|icA]tft)A  c|te  con^pAiJi  a  cléfb  é;  ocuf 
ca^Aic  TA|t]ton)  At)  iDóiv  ]tío3utt)  f  |t]ocbc  |*A]6re  SAijibe 
5lo]|*e  :  cfAt;  jAnifcc  fto  bj  CiicullA|t)t)   ac   a  cu|t  be  ]to 


Ill 

3oit)  Lo]cb  é.     Ho  é]]ir^]h  pe^Tij  CucuIU]T)T)  }:]i]y,  50  ]\o 
5011J  be'i)  5AC  boils  é." 

The  great  princess  Earmais  came  with  the  view  of  injuring  Cu- 
chullainn  while  he  was  engaged  (in  single  combat)  with  the  valiant 
hero,  on  the  Tain  Bo  Ohuailgne.  The  princess  came  in  the  shape 
of  a  white  and  red  cow,  accompanied  by  fifty  cows,  having  a  chain 
of  bright  brass  between  every  two  of  them.  The  female  band 
exclaimed,  "  let  geas  and  our  bann  be  upon  Ouchullainn  so  that  he 
may  return  without  impediment  or  harm,"'  CuchuUainn  cast  a  dart 
at  her  and  thereby  broke  the  eyes  of  the  great  princess.  The  potent 
princess,  thereupon,  came  in  the  shape  of  a  black  eel  with  the  stream  ; 
and  contrived  to  worm  herself  around  the  feet  of  CuchuUainn. 
While  CuchuUainn  was  endeavouring  to  extricate  himself  from  her 
hold,  he  received  a  cross  wound  through  his  bosom.  The  great 
princess  came  again  in  the  shape  of  a  rough  greyhound  ;  but  though 
it  took  CuchuUainn  only  a  short  space  of  time  to  put  her  from  him, 
yet  Loich  wounded  him.  The  anger  of  CuchuUainn  was  thereby 
excited,  so  that  he  wounded  him  (Loich)  with  the  Gath-bolg. 

Few  peo])le  would  suppose  that  the  wind  was  once  an  Irish 
deity,  but  if  they  only  take  the  trouble  of  examining  the  singu- 
lar habits  and  customs  of  the  isolated  Irish  peasantry,  they 
will  find  that  there  is  everything  to  warrant  such  a  supposition. 
We  take  the  liberty  of  quoting  an  extract  from  Rev.  Charles 
O'Conor's  work  in  support  of  this  statement : — "  Hinc 
jusjuraudum  solemne  usque  hodic  Eatk  dicitur.  IV.  Magistri 
ad  ami  457,  inquiunt,  "  CAcb  ACA-bAfiA  ]i]a  \^A]-^r)]h})  poji 
ÍA05Aifte  m^c  Mé]ll.  Ko  3<vb  bot)  l.A05Aiiae  ■\y]x)  CAcb  X^^>  1 
bo  |tAb  LA05Ai|te  ^aca  3^^^we  1  "S^^o^te,  T  ^a  bul  bo 

LA]5T)lbb  T)AC  C10C|:A  pO|l|lA  Clt^A  h]Z]X)  AjlA  l&5Albb  UAbbA," 

(i.  e.   Prailium  Vadi — Quercorum    gestum   a  Lageniensibus 
contra  Leogarium  filiura  Nialli.     Captus  est  autem  Leogarius 

'  It  appears  that  the  druidesses  who  accompanied  the  fairy  princess 
Earmais,  became  friends  of  CuchuUainn,  when  they  saw  him — he  was  the 
most  handsome  person  then  living— and  fell  in  love  with  him — this  was 
one  of  his  buadha. 


11-2 

iu  praelio  isto,  et  juravit  Leogarius  Jusjiirandum  Soils  el 
Venli,  et  Elementorum,  Lagenicnsibus,  iion  venturum  se 
contra  eos,  durante  vitii,  ad  intentuni  istum)  nerape  ad  tribu- 
tum  bourn  irroganduin,  quod  praelio  isti  praebuit  occasioncm. 
Postea,  paucis  interjectis,  ejusdem  Leogarii  obitum  ex  Ethni- 
corum  relationibus  his  verbis  enarrant  ad  ann.  458.  2lcbAcb 
]crAob  CAif fi  eb]|t  é|t.  ^  2llbAii)  ^.  bA  ct)OC  ^Ab  t*^ii)  Toiler 
\x)  Uib  "pAolATP,  T  5i^l^t»  1  5<^ocb  rto  TbA]tbb  yoxx)\),  Ajt  |to 
fi^|tA]5  lAb;  coi)  ibb  bo  \\\)  Acbejic  At)  \i\\ — 'bujle  i)&  Ab 
|iAe5A]b  |tA]cb — "Cue  fAc  bA]l  ai?  h'o.\x  ^ofi  fAi)  Ttisb- 
Instead  of  the  Rev.  Doctor's  Latin,  we  give  an  EngHsh  trans- 
lation : — He  (Laoghaire)  was  slain  in  the  district  of  Cassia, 
between  Ireland  and  Albain  (Scotland),  i.e.  two  hills  are  they 
in  the  country  of  O'Faolan;  and  the  Sun  and  the  Wind  killed 
him,  because  he  violated  his  oath  to  them,  and  so  the  old  poet 
sung  : — "  The  divine  elements,  whose  oath  he  violated,  pro- 
nounced  death  against  the  King."  And  the  Eev.  Dr. 
O'Conor  adds,  "  Eandem  narrationera  Ethnicara,  iisdem  fere 
verbis,  servaverunt,  ex  vetustis  carminibus,  Tighearnachus, 
Annales  Inisfalienses,  Ultonienses,  et  Buelhani."  Trol  Ixxiii. 
The  Badhbh^  or  "  Fates,"  were  unquestionably  beings  that 
were  once  held  in  veneration  by  the  pagan  Irish,  and  their  me- 
mory has  reached  even  our  own  times.  The  belief  in  the 
Badhbh  was  probably  connected  with  that  which  existed  as 
to  the  powers  of  the  wind,  which  was  a  pagan  deity,  visible 
only  to  the  pig  and  the  goat,  and  whose  appearance  was  so 
terrific  to  these  animals  as  to  force  them  to  hide  themselves, 
as  best  they  could,  from  the  ghastly  god.  The  Badhbh  was, 
no  doubt,  the  CjtjeArbuir)  or  Fate,  and  the  wind  having  so 
much  influence  over  the  CiueArbuju,  it  must  have  once  been 
considered  one  of  its  handmaids.  The  following  curious  poem, 
taken  from  an  old  MS.,  will  tend  to  exemplify  the  above  : — 


113 
ZU91H   no   CJMe2lí2Ít)2l)N. 

2lr)  njAC  bei|tceA|t  A|t  5A01C  a  T)iA|t, 
i)o  jejb  bjiAC  If  &o  se^b  b^AÓ ; 

j]*  r)]  b-pA5ATTD,  o  A  qjeAjtTjA, 
2lcc  iT)0  bjAÓ  ii*  rr»o  bjtAC. 

2I1J  n)AC  beAitcAjt  A|i  5A01C  ]  b-cuAj5, 
Be]|ieA6  buA^Ó,  beijteAÓ  b]0tT)buAi6  ; 

5oiDceA|i  é,  )Y  50iT)peA6  i^eAC, 
Sul  ce^b  A|i  ijeATÍ7  T)A  T;Aii)5eAll. 

2lr)  rtjAC  beA|iéA|i  A|t  JAO^c  a  i;-&eA|*, 

«Do  5eib  TDjl,  ^r  bo  -^e^h  njeAy; 
Bia6ca|i  ir)A  c|3, 

eArbuis  ir  ontnííis- 

TieAllA  AT)  Ól|t  AT)  5A0]C  A  1)0]]t, 

3aoc  If  feAjtji  bo  T)A  5A0CAib; 
21 1)  njAC  beAjtcAfi  x^V  U-oAOjc  i)-51a]I), 
Mj  bjAÓ  eAfbA]6  Ai5e. 

21 T)  CAT)  T)AC  luA^f5]0t>r)  AT)  SAO^C, 

2lft  ^eu|t  Tt}i^i5e  i:)ii  Ajt  ^|tAO]c; 

MOC  A  T)-3eiT)ceA|l  AT)T)  fO]T), 

2lcc  oir)b]6e  t;o  ATt)AbA]i). 
TRANSLATION. 


The  son  (child)  who  is  born  when  the  wind  blows  from  the  west. 
Shall  obtain  I'aiment,  and  shall  obtain  food  ; 
He  shall  obtain  from  his  lord, 
Onlv  food  and  raiment. 


114 

The  son  (child)  who  is  born  when  the  wind  blows  from  the  north. 
Shall  win  victory  and  be  subject  to  defeat ; 
He  shall  be  wounded  ;  he  shall  wound  another, 
Before  he  shall  ascend  to  Heaven  of  the  Angels  (die). 

The  son  (child)  who  is  born  when  the  wind  is  from  the  south, 

Shall  get  honey ;  he  shall  get  fruit ; 

In  his  house  he  shall  entertain 

Both  bishops,  and  musical  performers. 

The  locality  of  gold  is  the  wind  from  the  east ; 
This  is  the  best  wind  of  all  the  winds  ; 
The  son  (child)  who  is  born  when  that  wind  blow  s. 
Want  shall  never  reach  him. 

Whenever  the  wind  does  not  blow 

Over  the  grass  of  the  plain,  or  the  heather  ; 

Whosoever  is  then  born, 

Whether  male  or  female,  shall  be  an  idiot. 

It  is  very  well  known  that  the  orientals,  as  well  as  the  Irish 
believed  the  whid  to  be  a  potent  deity.  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  there  is  a  very  general  belief,  even  at  the  present 
day,  amongst  our  peasantry,  in  the  power  possessed  by  the 
wind  to  inflict  evil  not  only  on  the  vegetable  world,  but  even 
on  tlie  animal  creation.  This  baneful  influence  is  called  in 
English,  "  Blast."  The  Mahomedans  believe  the  whid  which 
blows  from  Syria  Damascena,  to  be  one  of  the  signs  portend- 
ing the  a])proach  of  the  last  day  ;  (vide  Sale's  Prelm, 
Discourse).  The  royal  serpent  whose  name  was  Sanc-ha-naga, 
or  Sanc-ha-mucha,  was  a  most  malicious  creature,  whose  breath 
was  a  fieri/  poisonotis  tvind  that  burned  and  destroyed  animals 
and  vegetables  to  the  distance  of  a  hmidrcd  9/oJans  round  the 
place  of  his  residence  :  his  breath  was  believed  to  the  the  samum 
or  hot  envenomed  wind,  m  Inch  blows  from  the  mountains  of 
Ilubab,  or  Snake,  all  over  the  desert.     Like  our  charm-mon- 


115 

gers  who  make  use  of  spells  to  counteract  the  baneful  influ- 
ences of  the  Bed  7Fi?id,  so,  if  we  may  believe  the  ancient 
books  of  the  Hindoos,  two  Eic/iis,  or  Saints,  named  Agasti 
and  Astica,  volunteered  their  services  to  put  a  stop  to  this 
intolerable  evil.  The  first  named  of  these,  having  used 
harsh  measures  towards  the  mischievous  serpent,  met  with 
the  most  success,  and,  according  to  the  Brahmins,  rendered 
him  not  only  tractable,  but  even  well-disposed,  to  all  who 
approached  him  with  respect :  he  even  reduced  the  wicked 
serpent  to  so  small  a  size,  that  he  was  able  to  carry  him 
about  in  an  earthen  vessel.  Crowds  of  people  are  now  said 
to  worship  the  serpent,  at  the  place  of  his  residence  near 
Cali,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  but  that  this  was  the  serpent 
Keredy  mentioned  by  the  learned  Dr.  Pococke,  in  his  work  on 
Egypt,  which,  he  believed,  in  consequence  of  the  vast  heaps  of 
bones  found  before  his  grot,  was  worshipped  by  the  Mussul- 
mans :  as  for  the  Christians,  they  also  believed  Heredy  to 
possess  great  power,  but  said  that  he  was  the  devil.  Vide 
Trans.  Asiat.  Soc,  vol.  3,  pp.  344-345. 

Seeing  how  much  the  influence  of  the  wind,  as  a  pagan 
deity,  was  dreaded  by  the  ancient  Irish,  we  need  not  wonder 
that  even  in  the  present  day,  innumerable  superstitions  should 
exist  as  to  its  power  of  inflicting  evil  on  men,  as  well  as  on 
cattle  and  crops.  When  a  whirlwind,  or  what  modern  phil- 
osophers have  been  pleased  to  term  a  land-spout,  appears,  it  is 
generally  termed  a  fairy  wind ;  and  it  is  firmly  believed  that 
the  fairies  are  either  at  war  amongst  themselves,  or  are  carrying 
away  with  them  some  human  creature.  In  such  cases,  if  the 
person,  who  sees  this  wind,  will  stoop  and  pick  up  some  of  the 
earth  or  gravel  under  his  or  her  right  foot,  and  throw  it 
against  the  wind,  the  fairies  must  immediately  release  any 
mortal  who  may  be  their  prisoner. 

But  it  is  full  time  to  close  these  remarks,  and  to  introduce 
the  reader  to  that  mysterious  being,  Conan  of  Ceannsleibhe, 


116 


/77- 
mz.y 

nficL  . 


aiul  to  the  strange  substance  of  his  queries,  and  the  still  stran- 
ger replies  made  to  them  by  Fionn  Mac  Cumhaill.  This 
Conan  resided  near  the  Lake  of  Inchiquiu  ;  and  it  is  more 
than  probable  that  they  are  his  remains  that  are  interred  under 
the  stone  inscribed  with  Ogham,  on  the  mountain  of  Callan, 
and  not  those  of  Conan  Mael,  the  Fenian  chief,  as  asserted 
by  Theophilus  O'Flauagan. 

The  MS.  from  which  our  text  is  printed,  as  also  that  of  the 
former^  volume,  published   by  the  Society,  was  made   by  a 


celebrated  scribe  named   Foran^jwho  resided  at  Portlaw  in 
the  couuty~orWateri'ord  in  the  year  1780  ;  and  both  versions 


have  been  carefully  collated  with  other  copies  previously  to 
being  put  into  the  printer's  hands.    , 

NICHOLAS  O'KEAENEY, 
Member  of  Council. 
Diihlin,  Nov.  1855. 


The  Council  of  the  Ossianic  Society  regret  the  unavoidable 
delay  which  has  taken  place  in  the  publication  of  the  present 
volume.  They  have,  however,  spared  uo  exertion  in  endea- 
vouring to  render  it  acceptable  to  the  members  of  tiie  Society ; 
and  they  have  to  return  their  best  thanks  to  Mr.  Henry  O'Neill, 
who  has  done  so  much  for  the  illustration  of  the  remains  of 
ancient  art  in  Ireland,  for  his  kindness  in  presenting  the  So- 
ciety with  the  three  beautiful  initial  letters  which  adorn  these 
pages,  and  which  were  engraved  by  Mrs.  Millard  of  Mary- 
street  in  this  city.  They  are  exact  representations  of  illumi- 
nations  in  the  Book  of  Kells,  a  MS.  of  the  sixth  century, 
now  deposited  in  the  library  of  Trinity  College,  Dublin. 


^  n.^ 


>,■/ '  y. 


"./^    y  -A  .^:C^^^;-  y.;  ;^- 


^^^^, 


V^. 


<  ^, 


-^      ^ 


^    -^^-v,/?^ 


o^^^^ 


'^  '^^^.^t^ 


^<:-  ^.  ^^ 


J 


/,^,  y  y/  'X — Z^     /^ 


'^í)^trÁ 


7^- 


M  .<rVíi 


r<//V.-r,     .y    ^/.^  ^<.-/a  'X.7e- 
/"/r-7./v^-  --y^---    r-^-^..^    r/.^,,i^^ 


/W 


t^^-l. 


HL^  ^    1« 


^/ 


<>7 


^^^  /. 


-/ 


^'^  a.  /  ^-^.f^^ 


7;t 


^  ^-         -^^  -J2     ^  .^, 


•^    ^^J 


^.^ 


/■r  ^* 


-/■     ^'»^  «     ^*7 


r^  ^ 


1^^. 


/y  f^y  j/  ./^  '/^  ^^  ^^  ^  .^' 


% 


^ 


M  >t  ><.y. 


'MrA^.^íj^^    J^.'A_  .^r  r.,^  yt-,   i/^^^. 


THE    AUGUMENT. 

[The  chace ;  Fionn  is  deserted  by  all  his  men,  except  Dior- 
raing ;  he  falls  asleep  ;    on  awaking,  he  orders  Diorraing  to 
procure  materials  for  a  temporary  hut,  while  he  himself  goes 
to  seek  food  for  tlie  night ;   Diorraing  discovers  a  dwelling 
house  on  tlie  margin  of  the  wood  ;   Diorraing  and  Fionn  go  to 
the  gate  to  dt^nand  hosi)itality ;  they  are  informed  it  is  the 
house  of  Conan  of  Ceann  Sleibhe  ;  are  admitted  and  meet  with 
a  friendly  reception  ;  Fionn  claims  the  liand  of  Conan's  daugh- 
ter in  marriage,  by  virtue  of  a  previous  contract  entered  into 
between  them ;  Conan  binds  Fionn  under  geasa  to  give  true 
answers  to  certain  queries  which  he  is  about  to  propose ;  the 
names  by  which  Fionn  was  known  in  his  younger  days ;  his 
account  of  his  vow  to  leap  over  the  chasm  of  Brice  Bloige  once 
every  year;  an  account  of  the  man  who  was  wont  to  leap  over 
his  own  gra\  e,  and  demand  erk  from  his  murderer — (a  pagan 
myth) ;  names  of  the  best,  worst,  largest,  smallest,  most  active, 
and  most  inactive  members  of  the  Fenian  body;  ihe  history  of 
Eo^',  the  Irish  Cyclops ;    the  natural   wonders   that  existecT 
"among  tlie  Fenian  people  ;  an  account  of  the  hospitality  of  the 
liouse   of  Cuana ;    representations  of  Energy  and  Sloth,    the 
crimes  of  man  represented  by  a  ram  ;  an  old  hag  with  a  gray 
garment  made  the  representative  of  old  age ;  the  sweet  and 
bitter  fountains  of  truth  and  falsehood ;  marriage  ceremonies 
of  the  pagan  Irish ;  Bran_jind  Sceoluing,  Fionn  Mac  Cum^^ 
_h_ailFs  famous  hounds    Ins  aunt^s  children  ;  Tionu  courte  d  by 
two   sisters  named  llilucradh  and  Aine";    Milucradh  decoys 
hiaa  to  Sliabh  Guillen,  and  changes  him  into  a  decrepit  old 
man,  in  her  druidical  lake  on  that  mountain ;  the  means  by 
which  Fionn  obtained  his  prescience ;  the  history  of  Neoid  the 
goa  of  penury  ;  the  history  of  a  young  woman  named  Eadaoin 
of  Sliabh  Caoin,  who  bound  Fionn  under  a  yeasa  ;  the  three 
falsely-aimed  spear  casts  made  by  Fionn  ;  his  marriage  with 
Finndealbh,  the  daughter  of  Conan  of  Ceann   Sleibhe ;  his 
vision ;    he    attends    the    wedding   feast   accompanied    by    a 
thousand  Fenians  ;  the  Tuatha  Dedanans  plot  his  destruction  ; 
they  assemble  and  attack  Fionn  and  the  Fenians ;  account  of 
the  dreadful  battle  fought  on  the  occasion ;  the  conclusion.] 


Il^ 


pe;s  T:j5i)e  c1)0N2ijn  c\))nn-s\)i^)B\)e>  sonn. 


ímm'^^^^m.  -^^^  '^3^r  T^I^^ac  c|ion)-co|tc<vc,  fAOji-Aoib- 
^w^Bi^^li  iv^h  ^o  cort^óftAÓ  le  f]Oím  n)Ac  Cburi)A|ll 
ítefej^BBij^lli  A5Af  le  f]^})r)A]b  5lAT)-íV]lt;e  3^oi6eAl, 
'^Wb^^»  u^nj  "CboT^c'  óf  Locb  Léit),^  '^5'<^r  f^  «^TM^" 
'^l^^^^^l/  cA^b  b-T^eAji  2t)o|ic  ;^  A5Af  ^ó  Jb  Cbot)i;A]ll 

Hió  f\]Ah  ú|t-AO|biT)t)  6ACCAi6e,^  ^ujt  leACAbA^  óy  x]x)  ^ó 
fléibcib  bíi|t]i-5lArA,  A5AT  pó  &0]|ieA6Aib  bA]t)'5Ve  bO)-eó- 

ÍAlf,    A5<Xf  fÓ  CT)OCA]b    CO]t]tACA    cloC-JAjlbAÓ   CeAtJU-jtUAÓ, 

AjAf  pó  Tbívso^ib  T^^15-r<^lT^rio')5<*'  ^^  S-^T^Ioc  pó  có|Tbt)eAf a 
bóib;  A5Af  71Ó  loijTJí-AiS  5AC  cAOi|-eAC  'péjwe  b']oh  a  ^orjAb 

UytOAlcA,    A5AI*  A  líVCA]|l  lé]5Ce,    A5A|*    A  beíV|l|tT)A  bAOJAjl, 

njA]t  A  3-cleACCAbAoii*  coy^A\i  5ACA  re]l5e  bo  cuft  ^iojrbe 
ri'?  í  ^5^r  ^*'  lé]5eAbA]i  ]-eAfbívi)  t:)A  r^ilse  TeAC|iívijAií5o 
f]i)  f:5  t)A  coiUce  50  coicceAut);  5u|i  cu]|teAbA]tpiA6A  }:]0]i- 
luACA  Af  f í^fAÓAib ;  A5Af  n^íolcA  n)0U5-|tuA6  cAji  n)AO]\- 
eAi)i)Aib;  A^Ai*  ]*iowAicc  Aji  ^-eAcnívi;,  A3Af  bito^c  Af 
b|mA6-clAfA]b,  A5Af*  eo]t)  Afi  eic]ollA,  A5A]*  Iao|5  aUca 
A|t  luAic-|i6irrj ;  A5A]-  bo  léi5iobA|i  A  3-coit)  5-c|tA0j-ACA, 

'  Cofic,  Tore,  now  Turk  mountain,  contiguous  to  the  lakes  of  Killar- 
ney.  Tliis  celebrated  mountain  adds  grandeur  and  sublimity  to  the 
surrounding  scenery,  and  enhances  in  no  small  degree  the  beauty  of  the 
adjoining  landscajje. 

Í  loci)  Lé|T),  Loch  Lein  is  the  old  Irish  name  of  the  Lakes  of  Killarney. 

*  FcATiA  ?i)o|ic,  a  district  in  the  west  of  Kerry,  now  Corca-Duibhnc, 
or  Corcaguiny. 

*  Ibb  CboijAll  3AB|tA,  now  the  barony  of  ConncUoe  in  the  county  of 
Limerick. 


/I 


1 


THE   FESTIVITIES   AT   THE   HOUSE   OP   CONAN 
OE  CEANN-SLEIBHE. 


HEAVILY-PKODUCTIYE,  truly- 
pleasant  chacc  and  stag-hunt  was  ap- 
pointed by  Fionn  Mac  Cumhaill,  and 
;the  noble,  handsome,  fair-featured 
|1  Fenians  of  the  Gael,  on  the  mountain 
f,:of  Tore,  which  towers  over 
Loch  Lene,  over  the  district  of 
|i  Fear  More,  and  Hy  Connall  Gabhra.  The 
chace  was  extended  by  them  over  the  green 
'^  pleasant  mountain  of  Eachtaidhe,  and  from 
thence  it  spread  over  other  green-capped 
mountains,  through  dense  impassable  woods, 
over  marshy,  rugged,  reddish  hills,  and  across 
the  smooth  extensive  plains  of  the  adjacent 
districts.  Every  Fenian  chief  chose  the  place 
which  his  taste  suggested,  his  starting  point, 
and  the  pass  of  danger,  where  he  had  been  accustomed  to  ex- 
ercise his  power  in  every  chace,  in  which  he  had  been  previ- 
ously engaged ;  and  the  shouts  which  they  raised  in  the  turns 
and  doubles  of  that  hunt,  re-echoed  throughout  the  woods 
around ;  so  that  they  started  the  nimblest  bucks  in  the  forest, 
caused  the  smaller  red-furred  game  to  clamber  up  the  sum- 
mit of  the  rocks,  scared  foxes  astray,  aroused  badgers  from 
the  mountain  clefts,  drove  birds  to  the  wing,  and  fawns  to 
their  utmost  speed.      They    then  unleashed  their  ravenous, 


»  eAccAiSe,  alias  Slieve  Aughty,   a  mountain   situated  between  the 
counties  of  Clare  and  Galway. 


120 

3-cii)t)-beA3<v,  3-cóitT)-^eA|i3ACA,  c|tort)-luACA,  A  3-coif)i)e 
A3Af  A  ^-corv6'A]l  A  ce^le  cun?  t)A  fe]l3e  7-^]t-TT)ói|te  ]*in. 
2lcc  céA&rjA,  bA  lík.iTb-6eA|t3  Iaoc,  ^SAf  bA  c|toi6eA|t5 
cop),  A3Af  b<v  cof3A|tcAc,  có-n)bui6eAc  )^iai)i)a  6||tpt)t) 
A  b-Aicle  T)A  f^llse  j-AoiitATOe  ^eAf&^tjAiÓe  ]'it). 

Cio8  qiivcc,  T)iO|l  frAi)  A  b-pocAijt  'pblt)!)  Ai)  l^  TV^  ^cc 
í)lO|t|tAp)3  Tt)AC  <t)05ATtbiVTbAi6i  ArbAjT;.  "21)aiCj  a  <t)bl0|t|i- 
'O'lV'S,"  A|i  TPiot:)^,  "  be]!?  li-AlT^»  ■<^3<^r  1íO]tco]n7eAb  bAtbr^í 
50  3-coblA  11)6;  ói|t  ir  T170C  bo  ei|t3eAr  a  v]^,  a3A|-  bA 
rr)4^]t  At}  Tboic-éi|i3i6  bo't)  C]  b'ei|t3eócA6  at)  cai)  ijac  beA^iA 
Aicrje  A|i  rs^vil  A  CÚ13  roeAjt  jb]]!  é  A5Af  léAf  Iao]  ;  vo 
A]ti)e  A|i  buille  AT)  colli  feoc  bujlle  ija  bA^tiiAiOe."  2lcc 
ceAbi)A,  zu]z]oy  a  coi|tcirt)  j-uaid  A3Af  fivri^-cobAlcA  YO\t  At) 
■^15  7^é]t)i)e  ;  5u|v  Ab  é  frAfb  bo  b]  At)t),  6  t]i'^]t  e]]x-^e  bo't) 
IÓ  50  b-cAit)i6   A  buibe  f:o|t  At)  r)-'5V-^]V  ^\W  t)ór)A. 

«DaIa  t)A  péiwe:  bo  éi|i5iobA|i  ó't)  c-fejls,  3u]t  ^ivsbAbA^i 

Plot)!)  l0t)A  COblA  A|t  CAjtt)  CbjUt)  Sblé)be,  A5A]-  <t)|0|l|tAlt)3 

A5  A  coiti)eAb,  50  t)i^|i  b-peAf  bóib  ca  bub-f-ejls  ^otjA  jtAbA- 
bAft ;  A3A1*  Ai)  cAt)  bob'  f  AbA  le  í)io|t]iA]t)3  bo  bi  'piot)!)  ioi)a 
coóIa  bo  6uiri5  é,  A3Af  Tt)i)nor  ^o  ad 'pblAi)t)b'^^5bivil 
i)A  feil3e,  50  i)AC  5-cuaIa  3IA06  tjiv  ^eAb  ^ofbA  uaca. 
"Jl*  beijie  Iaot  'civ  Átjt),"  A|t  r&,  "A3<xf  t)i  leAi)f Att)  At) 
PblAt)?)  A  t)occ  ;  Acc  éi|t5i6-T-i  f  ó  At)  3-coill,  a  t)bi0Tt|iAii)3, 

ASAj-  CAbAjjl  AÓbAjt  boCA  ASAf    béAl-|*5ACA  ICAC,    A5A]-  jtA- 

CAbfA  b'iA}t]tAi6  ciiib  t)A  b-oióce  cu5Ait)t)."     í)']n)C)5  'D]- 

0fl|lA]t)3  Af  A  b-Alcle  f]!),  A5Af  ^)']  C|At)  bo  CUA16  At)  CAt)  Ob 
COUAlJtC     BTtU]3eAt)^     CAllc     CAob-follll]-,     A     s-CfuibAii-    1)A 

'  &iortttAii)5  n}AC  Cio5ATi&Att)Aiii>,  (Diorraing  the  son  of  Domhar  Damli- 
aidli)  a  renowned  Fenian  Chief:  his  name  occurs  frequently  in  Fenian 
compositions. 

2  bt^U]50A1^  Bruighean,  (pron.  Breen),  in  popular  estimation  is  a  fairy 
palace  or  place  of  abode  :  the  Bruiyhin  was  unquestionably  a  subterra- 
nean dwelling ;  for  we  read  of  many  bruighins  in  our  MSS.  Bruighin 
Cheise  Corainn  was  one  of  those  celebrated  places  of  abode  selected  by 
the  Tuatlia  dc  Danans.  Ware,  speaking  of  the  subterranean  chambers 
found  at  Corrin  in  Sligo,  says  :— "  To  this  we  may  add  the  Caves  of  the 


121 

small-headecl,  angry,  iiimble  hounds,  and  by  a  siniultaaeous 
movement  in  concert,  set  them  upon  that  abundant  chace. 
Nevertheless,  the  hands  of  heroes  were  stained  with  blood, 
hounds  were  mangled  and  gory,  yet  the  Fenians  of  Eire  met 
success,  and  proud  they  were  of  their  hounds  on  the  occasion 
of  that  laborious  clamorous  hunting  match. 

It  so  happened,  however,  that  none  remained  in  attendance 
upon  Fionn  that  day  except  Diorraing  son  of  Doghardamadh 
alone.  "  Well,  Diorraing,"  said  Fionn,  "do  you  assume  the 
post  of  watch  and  ward  for  me  while  I  sleep,  for  I  arose  early 
this  day;  and  it  is  an  early  rising  when  a  person  cannot  ste 
his  five  fingers  against  the  sky,  while  reclining,  or  di&iinguish 
the  foliage  of  the  hazel  from  that  of  the  oak."  The  Fenian 
king,  however,  fell  into  a  pleasant  slumbering  sleep,  in  which 
he  remained  from  the  rising  of  the  morning  until  the  sun 
shone  in  his  golden  lustre  in  the  evening. 

As  for  the  Fenians ;  they  gave  over  the  chace  after  having 
left  Fionn  asleep,  on  the  earn  of  Ceann-Sleibhe,  with  Diorr- 
aing in  charge  of  him,  and  they  knew  not  into  what  unex- 
plored wilds  they  had  been  led  in  course  of  the  pursuit.  AYhen 
Diorraing  was  tired  of  Fionn's  long  sleep  he  awoke  him, 
and  told  him  that  the  Fenians  must  have  abandoned  the  chace, 
since  he  could  not  hear  either  a  cry  or  whistle  from  them. 
"  It  is  the  close  of  day,"  said  he  (Fionn),  "  and  therefore  we 
will  not  follow  the  Fenians  to-night.  Go  then,  Diorraing  to 
the  wood,  and  fetch  materials  for  building  a  hut  and  an 
inclosure,  while  I  will  go  to  seek  provisions  for  the  night  for 
us  both."  Diorraing,  accordingly,  proceeded  on  his  way,  but 
had  not  gone  far  when  he  discovered  a  strong,  well-hghted 
Bruighia  on  the  margin  of  the  sheltering  wood  close  at  hand. 

Hill,  or  rather  Rock  of  Correu  in  the  said  county  of  Sligo,  where  withia 
a  steep  and  almost  inaccessible  entrance,  antiquity  has  formed  out  of 
the  very  Eock  many  Strange  Habitations,  and  Recesses  on  the  west  side 
of  the  Rock,  they  call  it  Giant's  House.    Before  these  Caves  is  a  path 


123 

co|Ue  clucAitte  ioua  corb-pSAf ;  A3Af  ce^fe  CAjt  T)Aif  le 
f56AlA  C11117  lphV)n-  "  'Cé]3iort)  bV  b-1oui)rA]6e/'  Ait  }-iot;t), 
''ói|t  ^y]  6(Oi)3i)Arf)  ]*aoca|i  rjiv  ):oi]i5i)eATÍ7A  fAi)  i^jc  i*o,  a^aj* 
ix]C|iiob   yoxy-x}}  b-|:05u|-.''       ol'i^in^   [leóttjpA  iA|i   fl')  30 

bOflUf  A1)  Í)ÚI)A',    A5Af  bA11)]b    bAf-CfVAt)l)    ]t1f    AU  1)-bO|tU|'. 

F^|r)i6  Ai)  bóiiti-eófit  cúca,  A5Af  f:iAí:|tAi5io|*  c]A  b-jAb 
^é]t).  "  'ÍDiAi*  bo  rbuiuqit  "pbí'ÍU  ibjc  CúibAjll/'  A]i  C)]- 
0|tjtAii)5.  "Sseo  i)]Tbe  a5A|*  u|tb]tu5A6  oiiu]b/'  a]i  ai)  bói|i- 
■["eo||i  "]]•  olc  ívÓbAji  búji  b-cuiiA]f  bo'i)  bA^le  \],  ó]]i  a|*  & 
p10i;t?  bon)A]itb  acaiji  A5A|*  tr>ixcA]ii  asa]*  ceAcjtAit  beA|tb- 
■ftiviciie  ^]ia  Ai)  bA]lo  y],  aja]*  ACA^it  A5A|*  tTjCxcAnt  a  rbiA; 
A3A]*  Af  é  CA  I'AT)  nj-bAile  1*1,  Cou^vi)  Cbii;i)  Sbl^jbe,  ]tif 
A  i;-AbA]tcA|i  Coij^i)  CblOi)  Sbwrf^Al^e^  ;  6]]i  Af  &  p^oi^r) 
C113  30  \)-Q:,]T(i\-[)x)  Aji  b-cú|-  é,  A3Af  i-útDAnie  njAjtA  |iua6 
\e]X  A]t  c|tivi3  LocA  U'luts  bo  iA|t|tAi6  rbic  at)  Io]t),  caOoi), 
Ai;  clo]6eAib  ;  ^^S^f  ^^  'PÍ^'T^  t)A  ^aIa  |*]T)  u]le  bo  8éAT)Arb 
le  pioi)i;." 

)V   •<^'^0   ri'>   ^^1^  ^^   b5iiifeo]|t    cA|t  A]5  A3Af*  poccuf 
Coij^T)  coicTTT)  A3Af  cuAjiursbivil  i)A  bii]6t)e  ]*ai)  bo]iu|*  be. 

2lca    Ó3-IAOC    i:0It]tllfbA    T^10t)IJ-l]AC   AT)I),"    Aft    j-fe,    "  feAjl- 

ArbAfl,  i.'ii]tTtAi)CA,  p^o|i-rbA]i-eAC,  f.-ei6|ro-li\ib]]i,  30  rrjAife 
cuocA  A3Ar  bcjlb^  /^"SH  ■^X  ^  ■^V  fó  bo  tbileA&A]b,  ■^o^f 

of  about  100  paces  long,  cut  likewise  out  of  the  Rocks." — Ware  Antiq. 
p.  153.  Dub.  Ed.  1705.  vide  Tract  de  structura  Hib.  MS.  acct.  l)rt«|- 
SeAt),  or  bnw  or  boinije,  i.e.  tlie  Bruigliin  or  Bru  above  the  Boyne,  the 
renowned  druidical  academy  of  '-^lei)5ur  í*5  "'>^<^  -'^^  OA5bAe,  is  now  well 
known  as  the  temple  of  New  Grange,  county  of  Moath.  Like  some  philo- 
sophers of  the  olden  time,  the  Tuatha  Dedanan  druids  were  wont  to  teach 
their  arts  and  sciences  in  caves  and  chambers,  either  hewn  in  rocks,  like 
those  of  Corren,  or  in  large  places  constructed  like  New  Grange,  and 
Mananan  Mac  Lir's  house  at  Donamine  in  the  county  of  Monaghan. 
This  habit  may  have  given  origin  to  vulgar  opinion  that  the  Tuatlia 
Dedanans  understood  the  secret  of  rendering  themselves  immortal,  and 
thus  became  \]t^-  (everlasting  beings)  or  fairies.  The  temples  of  Doud- 
hou,  in  Ceylon,  are  constructed  in  the  caves  of  the  rocks,  and  the  priests 
as  well  as  tlie  idol  are  all  dressed  in  yellow  garments,  like  those  worn  by 


123 

He  returned  with  the  intelligence  to  Fionn.  "  Let  us  proceed 
to  it,"  said  Fionn,  "  for  we  ought  to  undertake  no  labour  or 
building  in  this  place,  since  strangers  dwell  near."  They 
then  proceeded  to  the  gale  of  the  Dun,  and  knocked  at  it 
The  porter  thereupon  presented  himself,  and  asked  who  they 
were.  "  ^Ye  are  two  of  Fionn  Mac  Cumhaill's  men,"  replied 
Diorraing.  "  May  poison  and  a  crushing  into  pulp  be  your 
portion,"  exclaimed  the  porter,  "  your  visit  to  this  place  is 
unfortunate;  because  it  was  Fionn  who  killed  the  father, 
mother,  and  four  brothers  of  the  owner  of  this  place,  as  al.^^o 
the  father  and  mother  of  his  wife ;  and  he  who  lives  here  is 
Conan  of  Ceann-Sleibhe,  who  is  also  called  Conan  of  Ceana 
Sumaire;  because  it  was  Fionn  that  first  brought  him  to  Eire 
from  Suraaire  of  the  Eed  Sea,  on  the  margin  of  Loch  Lurg, 
when  he  was  in  search  of  Mac-an-loiii,  i.e.  his  sword ;  it  is 
true  that  all  these  acts  of  treachery  have  been  perpetrated  by 
Fionn." 

The  porter  thereupon  returned  :  Conan  asked  hiin  the 
quality  and  description  of  the  parties  at  the  gate.  "  There 
is,"  replied  he,  "  a  young,  courteous,  fair-haired,  manly, 
puissant,  truly  handsome  hero,  powerful  in  action,  whose  shape 
and  countenance  is  formed  in  beauty's  mould ;  he  is  the  largest 

the  ancient  Irish.  Seward  bears  further  testimony  to  the  grandeur  of 
the  excavations  at  Corren : — "  Corren,  a  rock  so  c.dled,  sit.  in  Co.  Sligo, 
prov.  Connaught ;  remarkable  for  its  caves,  sometimes  called  tlu  Giant's 
house.  A  path  is  cut  in  the  rock  before  the  cave,  100  paces  long,  which, 
after  a  steep  difficult  descent,  leads  to  some  very  curious  recesses." 

'  Oun,  the  Dun  (pron.  Boon)  was  a  fortified  residence  ;  and  tliere  are 
reasons  for  believing  that  large  fortified  moats  surrounded  the  old  duns 
of  the  primitive  Irish 

2  CeAtji)  SunjAitte.  The  Head  of  Suraaire  of  the  Red  Sea,  is  probably 
some  district  or  mountain  in  Arabia,  bordering  on  the  Red  Sea.  This 
is  not  unlikely,  because  the  Arabians  in  the  oldeu  time  adored  the  sun, 
moon,  and  seven  serpents,  and  reliques  of  a  somewliat  similar  worship 
are  still  traceable  in  many  parts  of  Ireland.  Some  are  of  opinion  that 
Sumaire  is  the  Irish  name  for  Samaria. 


124 

AT  l<\|&]|te  bo  UocAib,  A5Af  a]-  ivilrje  bo'i;  &t^0T)5  bAorjuA 
boioeAtjbA;  A3Af  cú  c^iaoj-ac  C]r)ubi3,  ucc-^ioi)ii,  ci\|t|t- 
leAbv\|t,  50  |tOf5  ij-biieA5ATj,  50  i;jt)5t)]b  oi)coi;,  50  lotjii]* 
leórbAH),  50  i)]Tb  DAicjteAC,  A5A|*  50  i^ioc  i>beAbcs\  ui]tce, 
TOO  A  l^v^rb  ;  aja]*  ]*lAb|tA  fijAroAC  feAij-ATit^jb  50  n}u]i)ce 
ójft  poin-loifjce  ].*ó  OA  b]tiv5Aib,  A5Af  Ó5-IAOC  eile,  borjt), 
bftPAC  6eA]i3,  b&ib-5eAl,  toi^a  frocA]|i;  aja]*  |*oi5  bAllAC 
bii]6e,  pon  flAbfiA  f |Oi)u-bjtoiT;5e  joija  li^im." 

"  )f  ITJA^C    CU5A]|*    A    b-CUA]ttlf5biX]l    f*]t]Oc/^    A|l    Cot)i\f), 

"  A3v\|*  bo  be]|t]n7  A]ci)e  0|t]tA;  ójii  a|*  6  *p]oi)t;  ^-lAic-pejijoe 
O'BAOji-^ne  AT)  peA|t  i*]!)  ATt  b-cú|*,  ■A5A|'  B]iai)  ]or)A  U\]rT) ; 
A^Af  í)]0|titATt)3  n^AC  í)orbAn-bí\rbA|6  aij  t^eAji  ejle^  A5Af 
S5eólA]r)3  ^oija.  liiiri) ;  ó]jt5|6  50  liiA^c  aja]*  lé]5  AfceAC 
lAb?"  Léi5Tor;  A5A|*  bo  jtitjeAÓ  iin7Al-^ofs\i8  &óib  ;  A5Af 
bo  ^AbAÓ  A  T)-A]ftro  A]*  A  li^rbA^b  AjA]*  b'oUri7Ai6e  ^íleAÓ 
^ÍOft-n7Ainoc  6óib  ;  5ii|t  bA  ]*Ú5AC  -t-oiTbeAorDAc  b'A  6|f  ]Ab. 
jf  ArplA  bo  b]  Co\y^,\),  AJAf  A  be<.\i)  A]1  a  juaIa]!?!?, 
A5A|*  A  ]vf;]o]-)  citocAC  CAorT)-^lu|i)rj  A|t  A  5UAlAii;r)  e]le, 
eASor,  }-p)t;-beilb  ]V'SÍo\j  Cho})i\]v;  AjAf  bA  ívi5iT)é]l 
&Axco}*3  r)A  bT)3Í':)í>  tl'^'  ^11^  '^^  51^^  ^i^  |*t)cacca  3eAl 
Aot)-oi6ce  3AC  bAll  bV  bAllAjb  A3A]*  bV  CAori)  cucAf  :  corb 
boA]i3  |ie  pii^l  Iaoi3  ceAccAjv  a  6iv  3|tuA6,  cóii)  bub  |te 
h]xo]n)  bAO]l'  ceAccAji  a  6^  tíjaIaÓ,  bA]c  ai)  óiji  fO|ilo||*3ce 

Afl  A  pole     pAbA    -piOlJTJ-blAOICeAC,    30|ttT)-5lA||*e    1JA  buA3A* 

A  6iv  ]i0|*3  ;  nitjeAnjiju^i*  njAji  bA  piteAf  bo  iJiArijAtjAjb  iot)A 
ceAtji),  bA  óei]t3e  vi\  3liiof  pA]triv)i;  be]ii3  a  béAÍ  blApbA 

'  t)Aol  is  the  Irish  name  for  a  small  black  reptile  popularly  supposed 
to  be  the  darkest  object  in  crcaioii,  and  about  which  there  is  a  popular 
belief  that  if  you  kill  iiini  with  the  thumb  of  your  right  hand  before  he 
cocks  his  tail,  the  seven  deadly  sins  will  be  forgiven  you.  The  M'ord/e< 
has  been  substituted  instead  in  the  translation. 

2  bú^A  is  the  name  of  a  certain  plant  producing  a  bright  blue  flower.  I 
am  unable  at  present  to  give  its  English  or  Latin  name  ;  the  absence  of 
my  learned  friend,  Chevalier  O'Roddy,  is  to  be  regretted  on  this  account. 
O'Clery  in  his  glossary  (voce  bú5<i)  says ; — "it  is  a  plant  to  (the  flower 


12') 

of  heroes,  the  most  powerful  of  champions,  and  the  most 
beautiful  of  the  human  race;  he  leads  a  ferocious,  small- 
headed,  white-breasted,  sleek-hauuched  hound,  having  the  eyes 
of  a  dragon,  the  claws  of  a  wolf,  the  vigor  of  a  lion,  the  venom 
of  a  serpent  angered  to  speedy  action,  by  a  massy  chain  of 
old  silver  attached  to  a  collar  of  brightly-burnished  gold 
around  his  neck.  There  is  another  brown-haired,  ruddy-faced, 
white-toothed  man  with  the  former :  he  is  leading  a  yellow- 
spotted  hound  by  a  chain  of  bright  brass,  which  he  holds  in 
his  hand.'' 

"  It  is  a  good  description  you  have  given  of  them,"  said 
Conan,  "  as  I  thereby  know  them:  for  he  is  Fionn  O'Boisgne, 
the  Fenian  prince  whom  you  first  (described),  and  it  is  Brau 
he  leads  ;  the  other  man  is  Diorraing  son  of  Domhardamadh, 
and  it  is  Sceoluing  he  leads  in  his  hand.  Hasten  to  admit 
them."  They  were  therefore  accordingly  admitted,  and  re- 
ceived with  great  respect.  Their  arms  were  received  out  of 
their  hands,  and  a  sumptuous  feast  was  prepared  for  them,  so 
that  they  enjoyed  themselves  pleasantly  and  happily  on  the 
occasion. 

Conan  was  situated  as  follows  : — his  wife  sat  by  his  shoul- 
der on  one  side,  while  his  elegantly-moulded,  gracefully- 
mild  daughter,  named  Finn-dealbh,  sat  on  the  other.  The 
appearance  of  the  young  girl  was  truly  astonishing ;  for  fairer 
than  the  pure  snow  of  one  night  was  every  limb  of  her  body 
and  her  graceful  neck ;  her  cheeks  glowed  with  as  deep  a 
crimson  as  dyes  the  blood  of  a  young  heifer  ;  both  her  brows 
were  dark  as  the  sheen  of  jet ;  her  long  tendrilled  hair  .shone 
like  pure  burnished  gold ;  her  eyes,  blue  as  the  flower  of  the 
higlia,  glistened  like  pearls  in  their  sockets ;  redder  than  the 
berry  of  the  mountain  ash  were  her  sweetly-sounding,  cor- 
rectly-speaking  lips ;     and    an    elegant,    fine,    four-cornered 

of)  which  bright  blue  eyes  were  wont  to  be  compared.  lu)b  tie  rAtij- 
AlcAi5  rúile  50t\it)  1)0  5lAr." 


126 

bfDO-bftiACfuxc,  bfiAC  ciu\r;<\  ceACA^fi-be<VT;r)AC  CAOrrj  ■v?rT)pe, 
A5Af  ceó  Aiii5|b  i:ii)i)-5il  pí\'t)  n)-b|t<\c  óf  <v  bí\r)-b|tiiit;t)ib. 
2lcc  ceAi;i;v\,  lv\b}XAf  f]0\)x)  \ie  Co\^í\\),  A3Af  <\&úb<\iftc, 
"  A  Chor):\]i),"  Alt  ]-é,  ''  ]\-  viofi  5uft  njófi  c'^aIa-^a  cu^Anj- 
fA;  5)6eA6  bív  njo  cuitjA]u  leAC  ai)  cai)  |tó  A]uceA|*  cu 
•pé]!?  A3Af  bo  beAi)-c&|le  aji  bSkf,  aji  ]*0ATt)AÓ  c<\i]t&]]* 
í>iMr)i>í  50  jtAjb  bo  cé|le  y]  cAob-cított)  cojiftAC  ^ó  At)  Att) 

ri1?,    AJAj*  bo  T;A1|'5eA|-A    At)  CO]|t|tClOr  T|t)  bAT17  yé]V,    A5A|- 

b'A  n)0  Tt)AC  bo  b]A6  A]C|  a  be^c  at)  pbl<'^WA]6e,  A5Af  b'A 
n)0  ]\)^]ox)  bo  bjAÓ  atc],  a  leAfÚ5A6  50  ti)A]c  fo  rrjo  co]i7ije; 
A^Af  b'A  roo  b]oi;5bMA  ÓArb  í,  A  be|c  ^ija  moAO|  AjAnj, 
A5Af  njnijA  n)-biAÓ^  50  b-ciobftA]iit)  tto  cA0]rcAc  "péiutje 
bAtT)'  n)u]i)ci|i  í  ;  •A3Aí'  bo  c|ó]rt)  3u|t  b|0i)5bAlA  óatÍ)  ]:é]tj 
'^^)0]]-  ],  AjAi*  Tf  b'A  cAbA]ixc  car)5A&  bo't;  bul  yo,  ajai*  oí 
b'|A]t|tAió  oióeAcc."  "  ^^]3  ■^V)  a  TbjUu/'  A^t  Coi;;\t), 
"  0]|t  i;í  njó  itioc[*A  bo  it)eAi;rnAii)  t:é|i;  t)ív  |q|*  ai)  b-peA^i 
b'^[i  foAn^AÓ  Ai)  ]]}-^\oj)]\\."  "  C^A  é  |:éiT)  ?"  A|t  'Dioii- 
|iA]U3.    "  pacA  njAC  2lb|i|c^  eAboi;  rtjAC  11)5  &AfA  Ivuaó/' 

A|t  Coi)ÍM).  "  0|lC  bO  jop;  A^A]'  bO  5UA|)-,"  Alt  í)|Oít- 
■ftAlOJ,     "  bA    CÓI|t     Ai;    CCAi;5A     Ciqi'loAC     CAIt]l}M)A     CAft     A 

b-c^|i)i6  Ai)  c'AiHh^lóii  y]\),  bo  ólúic  a^aj*  bo  6|Ai)-3eAjt- 
•jtAÓ,  A3A|'  beocA  bAoit-bíijf  b']rr)i|tc  0|ic;  óni  bV  3-cuit- 
CAO]  T^uACA  <t)e  '13ai)ai)i)  u]\e  a  3-co|l|,^  aoi)  bujDO  bo 
b'f-eAiiii  pjoui)  'i)ív  é."  "  L&13  a|-,  a  í)b(oiiitAii}3  ?"  ah 
y\o\)i),  "  ó||t  1JÍ  b']on)A]tbí^6A  t'A\}-^Atv^]\t,  Acc  bo  CAbA]|tc 
iiji;ív  1)1)1),  A3Af  bo  beAjtAiT)  ]  b'A  n)0  olc  i;o  rrjA]c  jte  "Cuaca 
'Do   'Dauai^h   6."     "  N'i   6éAi)|*A   ]ott)A|ibAó   i)A  TrTJite.\i*C\i) 

]tioc/'    A|t  Coi)ívi),    "  ACC  3CA|*A-  ^)^\C  ):illAl)3A)b   |:Í0ItlA0|C 

'  ^lbliAjc  v)Ac  l)]\]c  was  a  powerful  cliief  of  tlic  Tuatlia  Declanans  of 
CAr  'áeóA  RUA6,  or  Easroe,  literall)%  the  "  casciule  of  llcil  Hugh,"  near 
Colcraine,  county  of  Derry.  Tlic  greatest  enmity  always  existed  between 
the  Tuatlia  i)eJanans,  and  tlic  other  inhabitants  of  Ireland  ;  as  indeed 
there  generally  does  between  a  eonquered  race  and  tlieir  conquerors,  in 
ail  countries. 

»  SsAfA  i)Ac  pulAt)5i&  vfon-lAO]c,  i.e.  a  certain  penalty  under  wliich  no 


1 27  v/k-^t/»v^^A^<-'^ccA^ 


>!V-- 


3 


mantle,  bound  abo"ve  her  fair  breast  with  a  bodkin  of  briglit 
silver,  enveloped  her. 

At  length,  Fionn  addressing  Conan,  said,   ''  0  Conan,  it  is    ^^j^   iJ\l\j  ' 
very  true  that  the  malice  you  entertain  towards  me  is  great     i/^  ' 

indeed ;  nevertheless,  you  may  remember  the  time  when  I  /  U^^<J'kM^ 
saved  yourself  and  your  wife  from  death,  and  that  we  then  '/^Xi  Ur^ 
cemented  a  bond  of  friendship  between  us  to  this  effect: — 
your  wife  was  then  with  child,  and  you  promised  me  the  gift 
of  the  infant,  on  condition  that  if  it  proved  to  be  a  boy,  he 
should  be  enrolled  in  the  Fenian  ranks ;  but  if  it  should  be  a 
girl,  you  were  bound  to  educate  her  in  a  befitting  manner  for 
me,  so  that  if  she  proved  duly  qualified,  I  should  take  her  to 
wife;  if  not,  I  should  bestow  her  on  some  Fenian  chief  among 
my  people.  I  can  now  perceive  she  is  quite  befitting  myself, 
and,  therefore,  it  is  to  claim  her  I  am  come,  and  not  to  seek 
hospitality  from  you."  "  Cease,  0  Fionn,"  said  Conan,  "  for 
you  do  not  esteem  your  own  worth  more  than  does  the  man  to 
whom  that  maid  is  betrothed."  "  Who  is  he  ?"  enquired 
Diorraing.  "Fatha  Mac  Abhric,  son  of  the  king  of  Easroe," 
replied  Conan.  "  On  yourself  be  the  fault  of  your  wounds 
and  danger,"  cried  Diorraing  ;  "  that  glib,  ill-spoken  tongue, 
which  has  given  expression  to  such  uncalled-for  words,  should 
be  silenced  and  cut  out,  and  the  potion  of  a  guilty  death  doled 
out  to  you ;  for  were  all  the  worth  of  the  Tuatha  Dedanans 
concentrated  in  the  body  of  one  man,  Fionn  would  prove  a 
better  man  than  he."  "  Be  silent,  Diorraing,"  said  Fionn, 
"for  we  have  not  come  here  to  commit  a  carnage,  but  to  get  a 
Avife,  and  we  shall  have  her,  no  matter  whether  the  Tuatha 
Dedanans  like  or  dislike  it."  "I  do  not  mean  to  hold  a  con- 
tention or  quarrel  with  you,"  said  Conan,  "  but  I  bind  you 

true  champion  would  suffer  himself  to  abide ;  Conan  did  not  stale  what 
the  nature  of  that  penalty  was,  but  it  was  well  known  that  the  threat  of 
imposing  it  implied  some  hard  conditions  degrading  to  a  knight  who  had 
no  power,   under  the  then  existing  laws  of  chivalry,  to  resist,  or  refus» 


12S 

one  njurjA  i)-]m]']]^  ÓArbfA  3ac  t^jÓ  buf*  ciinjAir)  iijoc  b'^ 
b-viApitAb  bioc?"  "  jDncofAb,"  Aft  "piono,  "  2t)A]^e,"  Ajt 
Coi;i\u,  ")i;]f  bAit)  Ai;  céAb  A]i;]!TJ  asaj*  At)  bA|tA  Apiirp 
CU5AÓ  Oftc,  A5A|*  Ai;  ^]c  pi)A  t)-beA|tuA]]*  bo  céAb  f  i;ívrb 
A5Af  bo  c&Ab  c|teAc,  ajaj-  c|teAb  -pivc  A^t  \]VS^  lé]"?  '^<'^ 
Bnice  Blojje'  5ACA  UiaOait)?"  "  JTji^eófAb  |:&]i)  y]})  bu]C, 
A  Cboui^iu/'  A|i  "pjoou-  "  Dl^r^JosiM'^^  "^o  céAb  A]U]n7, 
^3^V  5loll<^  Ai)  Cl;uA|'AiD^  nj'AiDinj  tm  biA^g  |-ii) ;  asaj* 
A5  "Ciobjiuib  CbtM'^!'^'?^'*  ^o  leAc-cA0]b  ]*l&]be  Srtjóil^  bo 
■ft]i)eA)*  njo  céAb  fM;í\ii);  ajaj*  Af)  pftA|*lACA''  5oi)a  biv  éAi; 
béA3  njo  céAb  c|teAC,  A5  'Dut)  Baoj/  ]i]y  a  ]tív]Óc]0|t  "Duij 
At)  Bbft05A  ceAr;"  ASAf  a}-  6  ylxi  yo  lit)5|tD  léittj  i;a  B|Mce 
Bloi5e  5ACA  bliA5Aiu;  At)  céAb  lív  bo  rS^^l^^r  ^*^"^'  tiMnje, 
eAóot;^  Bojrinqt),"  A|t  i;a  iDAjibAÓ  |ie  ClAi;r)A  2\.)ó]]V)e.  bo 

to  submit  to  the  cfmlitions.  Tlie  words  5eir  and  5Cv\rA  have  many  sig- 
nifications in  Irish  ;  the  acceptation  of  the  term  is  now,  for  the  most 
part,  among  the  Irish  speaking  portion  of  the  people,  a  supernatural 
bond,  or  enchantment, 

'  lé]n)  ijAbtijce  l»loi5e,  i.e.  the  leap  over  the  chasm  of  (he  Brice.  This 
place  is  unknown  to  the  editor  unless  it  refers  to  a  small  rivulet  named 
Brickey,  which  runs  tlirough  the  parish  of  Whitechurcli,  by  Knock- 
anc,  Mount  Odel,  Carritklca,  &c.,  and  falls  into  the  sea  at  iJungarvan, 
in  the  county  of  Waterford.  Perhaps  the  chasm  referred  to  is  at  Two- 
milc-bridgc,  on  the  road  between  Dungarvan  and  Youghal,  through 
wliieli  tliis  rivulet  runs. 

a  5IAV&Í05AI1)  signifies  the  invulnerable  Glas. 

3  5ioUa  At)  CI)UAr;M').  i  e.  the  boi/  or  wight  of  the  excavation.  Tlie 
Fenian  leader  was  so  CiiUed  in  his  youth,  because  he  had  been  bred  up 
by  his  foster-mother,  Boghmuin,  in  the  hollow  of  an  oak,  in  order  to 
avoid  the  vengeance  of  the  clans  of  Moirne,  and  other  enemies  of  his 
father.  Tradition  also  states  that  the  faithful  nurse  did  not  decide  on 
the  name  she  should  give  him,  until  after  he  vanquished  the  royal 
youths  of  Tara  at  manly  exercise,  and  tlie  monarch's  curiosity  was  so 
nmeh  excited  to  know  his  name  and  parentage,  that  he  exclaimed,  "  c(a 
»M)  riot)i)-5C|0  ub  A  ttuc  buAÓ  A|Tt  t)A  l)-Ó5Aib  rií^S'^.  i-c  who  is  that  fair, 
haired  boy,  who  has  carried  away  the  palm  of  victory  from  the  royal 
youths  ?"  bljcinin;  bujóe  txjr  i)A  tiee]b,  i.e.  "  I  return  thanks  to  the  gods," 
exclaimed  Boghmuin,  grasping  hold  of  her  foster-son,  casting  liim  on  her 


1S9 


xxvAitv  geasa  which  'true  heroes  never  would  bear/  if  you  do 
not  answer,  to  the  best  of  your  memory,  all  the  questions  I 
will  propose."  "  I  will  answer  them,"  replied  Fionn.  "Well 
then,"  said  Conan,  "Tell  me  the  first  and  second  names  by 
which  you  have  been  ^own ;  also  the  name  of  the  place 
where  you  first  swam  (bathed),  what  was  the  first  booty  you 
took,  and  why  yo'u  made  thcleap  of  Brice  Eloighe  every  year." 
"I  will  tell  (all)  those,  0  Conan,"  said  fíonnr^"Glasdiog- 
huiii  was  my  first  name ;  T  was  afterwards  known  by  the  name 
of  Giolla-an-chuasaiu;  it  was  in  the  fountain  of  Crithinn,  by 
the  side  of  Shabh  Smoil,  that  I  first  swam  ;  a  widgeon  and  her 
clutch  of  twelve  young  birds,  which  I  captured  at  Dun-Boi, 
which  is  now  called  Dun-da-bhrugha  in  the  south,  was  the 
first  booty  that  I  took.  The  reason  why  I  am  bound  to  make 
the  leap  of  Brice  Bloighe  every  year  is  this  : — The  first  day  I 
separated  from  Boghmuin,  my  foster-mother,  when  she  had 


Covvui_ 


a 


CLl.2!.-^ 


shoulders  and  taking  to  flight,  "  sun  CU5AÓ  Aiijinj  one  i:a  6eói5,  t  ir&  Ai) 
c.A]t)in7  A  b]'of  o]\z  A\\  ^e.\b  bo  beACA  é,  i.e.  that  j'ou  have  obtained  a  name 
at  last,  and  it  shall  be  the  name  for  you  during  your  life."  But  as  there 
were  other  distinguished  persons  of  the  name  of  Fionn,  before  the  birth 
of  the  son  of  Cumhall,  this  appears  to  be  a  modern  fabrication,  as  pro- 
bably the  name  Fionn  was  more  a  title  of  honour,  like  Pharaoh,  Caesar, 
&c.,  than  a  name  common  to  many  after  that  of  Curahall's  son. 
*  Cjobnuib  Cf)ni=1')''e.     The  well  or  fountain  of  Crithinne. 

5  SljAb  Srr)ó]l.  Mountain  of  the  thrush,  a  mountain  in  the  county  of 
Tipperary. 

6  PnAflACA,  i.e.  the  plump  or  neat  duck,  the  widgeon  ;  this  first  prey 
made  by  the  noble  youth  appears  very  insignificant,  if  we  do  not  con- 
sider the  great  difficulty  of  capturing  an  old  bird  with  her  clutcli ;  there 
may  be  some  mythic  meaning  in  the  story. 

7  t)úi)  bAoj.  Dunboy,  the  stronghold  of  the  O'SuUivans  Beare,  of  the 
race  of  Eibhear.  It  was  originally  part  of  Corca  Laidhe,  tlie  territory 
of  the  O'Driscolls.  See  O'SuUivan  Beare's  Hist.  Cath.  Iber.  lib.  VIII., 
c.  3,  and  Pacata  Hibernia,  Vol.  2,  p.  5C3,  Four  Masters,  A.D.  1602. 

8  Ciii)  Ai)  bbnoo-*  ceAf.    Dun  of  the  Brugh  in  the  south. 

9  V)o5n)U]q  was  the  eachlach  (courier)  to  Cumhall,  and  when  he  was 
going  into  battle  he  was  charged  to  take  care  of  the  daughter  of  the 


AjAf  ^)]  |tA]b  b'éAbAc  urt^urt)  acc  ^orjA^jt  bo  cfio]ceAi)t)A]b 
f:]A6  A^Af  ireAjtboj;  AjAf  ^ó|*,  bo  b]  A]i)]n}  e]le  ojtn?  ^ív'r) 
ATT)  |*|p,  eAÓor),  ^follA  T)A  5-Cno]ceAT)tr  ;  A5a|*  bo  coi;A|tc 
biv  oi]teACCA|*  Alt  6;v  cA]ti)  córb-í\|ib<\  of  co]i)i)e  a  cé^le, 
eAÓot)^  0||teACCAi"  ^] ofxnj A^feAC  >*eA|i,  A5Af  o]fteAccAf 
bU\]c-i;|ArT)bA    bAt)j  A3AI*  pA]ll  6oiTbli;tj  6uA]b|'eAC  AC-pi- 

ACrbA]t,     A5Af    5leAI)l)     ^5eÓ-5AOCTT)A|t      5|tí^]l)eArbAll     CAb- 

co|t|tA ;  A5A|*  cin)A5f  A  cutt)  ojiteAccATi*  i)A  nj-bAi),  A^Af 
b'piA|:|iAi5iof  bpb  C|teAb  pivc  a  fiAbAbAjt  r^T)  5-cótbbC\|l 

X]V  IgAC  A|l  ICAC  ?"       í)'íl)l)feAbAll    bATt)    5U|t    Ab  é  SéAblJA 

njAC  CAift]till'  TTjAC  C|iiori)CA]r),  eAÓot),  ttjac  nij  CljlAjt- 
•ftAiÓe  LuActtA/  CU5  T]tiqc  |-e]]ace  aja]*  cujle  z\ion)--^]iix6 
bo 'Dboi)A]c  ii)5Íoi;  «Dljiiiiie,  a  Sic  tiivi^te'^;  ■^'5^V  3"!^  ■^^ 
Í  cojiijce  bo  fi|i  Ai|i  Ai)  l&irT7  bo  cAbA^itc  5ACA  bl^AJATtj^  : 

Druid  Tadhg,  v.lio  was  pregnant,  and  when  the  child  should  be  born,  to 
carry  it  into  a  sequestered  wood,  so  that  his  enemies  would  have  no 
opportunit/  of  injuring  it.  Boghniuin  performed  these  sacred  duties  with 
the  utmost  fidelity.     Vide  Cac  CbnocA,  (Battle  of  Ca?tlcknock). 

'  luACAHt  t>t)eA5A]6  ceAf.  Luachair  Deagluulh,  in  the  south,  a  district 
in  the  county  of  Kerry. 

2  3(olU  1JA  c-c|to]ccAi)t).  i.e.  Wi;/ht  of  the  hides,  because  his  garments 
were  made  of  the  skins  of  the  roebuck  and  deer :  considering  the 
secluded  life  he  was  obliged  to  lead  in  his  youth,  it  was  almost  impossi- 
l)le  he  could  procure  any  other  kind  of  clothing. 

^  SCa&i)a  tijAC  C\\]Ott)ÍA]]p}.  Sedna  the  son  of  Cairrioll,  the  son  of 
Crionihthann. 

*  CiAfifXAjfee  luACHA.  A  district  in  Kerry  which  takes  its  name  from 
Ciar,  one  of  its  ancient  kings. 

*  SÍ5,  or  Sjc  t^:\nie.     The  mansion  or  fortress  of  Daire  or  Darii. 

6  5aca  bljAÓAio.  This  was  a  rather  curious  feat  which  the  fair  one 
required  from  lier  lover ;  the  thing  savours  much  more  of  some  old 
pagan  rite,  than  of  any  rational  demand.  This  is  the  more  likely  when 
we  bear  in  mind  the  traditions  associated  with  so  many  localities  where 
extraordinary  leaps  are  said  to  have  been  made  ;  sucli  are  our  l&/ti)  a  tj-cjc, 
(steed's  leap),  Iciim  C1)Uc.uIaii)i)  (C'uchullainn's  leap,  at  Loop  Head),  &c., 
and  the  wonderful  leap  made  by  the  giant  in  our  text,  over  the  arm  of 
the  sea  at  Howth,  when  pursued  by  Fionn  and  the  Fenians.     But  if  any 


131 

been  slain  by  the  clan  of  Moirne,  I  lost  ray  way,  and  strayed 
to  Lnachar  Deghadh  in  the  south.  1  wore  no  other  clothing 
at  the  time,  but  a  garment  made  of  the  skins  of  the  deer  and 
roebuck  ;  and  I  was  then  called  by  another  name  also,  that  is 
Giolla-na-g-Croiceann.  I  saw  two  different  assemblies  met  on 
two  high  earns  opposite  each  other  :  one  was  an  assembly  of 
comely  men,  and  the  other  was  composed  of  beautiful  bloom- 
ing Avoraen  :  there  was  a  high  terrific  precipice  on  each  side, 
and  a  windy,  formidable  valley  between.  I  proceeded  to  the 
female  assembly,  and  enquired  the  reason  why  they  assumed  that 
separate  position.  They  informed  me  that  Seadna  Mac  Cairrioll, 
son  of  Criomtliann,  king  of  Kerry  Luachra,  was  seized  by  a 
current  of  affection  and  a  torrent  of  deep  love  towards  Donait, 
daughter  of  Daire  of  Sith  Daire ;  and  that  the  condition  she 
required  of  him  was  to  leap   (over  the  valley)  every  year,  but 

doubt,  as  to  the  mythic  nature  of  the  transaction,  existed,  the  solemn 
injunction  imposed  upon  Fionn  to  perform  the  leap  every  year,  would 
entirely  remove  it.  There  is  a  tradition  extant  which  ascribss  the  cause 
of  Fionn's  death  to  his  neglect  of  performing  that  annual  rite  or  duty, 
and  anotlier  which  records  his  death  in  attempting  to  leap  over  tlie  dark, 
terrific  chasm,  after  having  neglected  to  do  so  till  after  the  expiration  of 
a  year  and  a  day.  There  is  a  deep  glen  called  Gleami  Dealyain  the  (Glen 
of  the  river  Dealgan),  in  the  county  of  Waterford,  about  three  miles 
distant  from  the  town  of  Dungarvan,  on  the  Waterford  road,  where  it  is 
traditionally  related  that  Fionn  Mac  Chumhaill  made  an  extraordinary 
leap  on  every  May-day  morning.  The  stupendous  deptli  of  the  place  is 
fearful  to  behold  when  compared  with  the  narrow  expanse  at  the  top ; 
and  it  is  said  that  Fionn  was  under  a  (jeasa  (pledge)  to  leap  this  Glen  for- 
wards and  backwards  before  sunrise  on  the  mornings  of  May -day  ;  but 
that  on  a  certain  morning,  as  he  was  on  Ids  way  to  make  the  leap,  he  met 
a  red-haired  woman  milking  cows  on  the  way-side,  from  whom  he  asked 
a  drink,  which  she  sternly  refused,  not  knowing  who  it  was  tliat  asked 
her  for  it.  When  Fionn  found  his  request  refused,  he  foresaw  that  his 
days  were  numbered,  and  he  cursed  the  red-haired  woman  ;  but  never- 
theless he  made  towards  the  glen,  which  lie  leaped  forward  ;  but  in 
leaping  it  backwards  he  fell  into  the  glen,  and  the  imprint  of  his  hands, 
knees,  &c.,  are  still  visible  on  a  greenish  stone,  which  lies  in  the  bottom 
of  the  glen.    From  this  circumstance  it  is  said  and  believed  by  the  pea- 


132 

A5A|*  uuATit  C15  f&  30  b|tuAC  T)A  ^rAille  locAt;  At)  le^n)  A||t. 

<t)'piApitA|60A|*A  AT)  b-pAOjÓpeAÓ  fj  |t]f  A1)  T]  bO  béAjtA  At) 
léltT)  ?     2l&Úbv\]|tC  X']  f^C  pACA  l'í  AOI)  ^eAfl  ]l]An)  bA  TÍ7eA|*A 

Í0|x|tA6  A5A|*  éA&AC  'i)i\  TT)]fe,  A^Af  T)]  6úbAT]ic  j*]  olc  jterp' 
bejlb,  A3A|*  AbiibA]jic,  bV  b-cu5A]iji)  At)  lt]n}  50  b-pAOjó- 
■peAÓ  liort).     ]y  Ai)t)  ]*it)  ru5A|'A  bo5-beA|icii5A6  ojtrt)  ^éji;  a 

TtJCAOAt}    rtJO    C]t01CeAt)t),    A3A|*    bo    l'SlÚCAf    At)    ^A]ll  A|l  ft)0 

cúl,  AjAi*  cívtjAÓ  Ati)  córb-iiuACAfi  itAjce  curt)  t)A  -pAille, 
51111  lit)5eA|*  bo  \é]n}  lívt;-lucri)ATi  eAbAji-buA|]*eAc  éAbcjiori) 

CA]l  At)  b-^Ajll  A  l)Út);  A5A|*  Cll5A|*  At)  bAjlA  lé]n)  CA]t  n^Vif, 

AjAf  bo  béAtt|iuir)t)  )  v]  bA  tbioijcA  b'A  ttjo  ii]l  Ijoti)  p&|t). 
)y  Ai;tj  |*]t)  b'é]]i5i6  «DorjAjc  bAttj'  iot)t)|*A]6e  A5Af  bo  jtAbA^O 
A  livrb  pi^kto'  bjtA5Aib,  ASAj*  bo  co]|tbTjt  ceo|iA  PÓ5  ÓAttj, 

A5Af    bo    buA^U    ")0    C|t01C|t)1)     b^Ott),    A5Af*    CU5     éAbAC     TT)0 

b|0i)5bivlA  8Att),  A5A1*  bo  |tu5  lé  bV  c|5  pé]t)  Tt7§  aij  OjÓce- 

rv)  >  ^:5H  ^'ént5ior  50  ttjoc,  a]i  im  t^^tiAc,  A5ur  bo  t^Afs 

f  If]  ojitt)  Ai;  léjtt)  bo  cAbA]|tc  5ACA  bliA5Aii) :  5u]t  Ab  ']  y]\) 
At)  ceji'c  bo  cuiit]f  o]inj  a  Cboi;i\ii)/'  A|t  "pioijt). 

"  Bei|i  buAÓ  A5A|*  beAtjijAcc,"  A|t  Coijivt),  "  oiji  ^y  peAji 
]:eA]*AC  fío)i-eólAC  cu,  A5A|-  ^y  újt-5ív|ibÚ5A6  Tt)eAt;tt)Ai) 
A5Af  A]5eAi)CA  ÓAtt)  be^c  A5  éifbeAcc  |t]Oc;  a7ja|-  ]vn]y 
ÓAxx)  M)0]y  cjA  At)  Iaoc  b"f\)]4.^}\)«]h  6i|tiot)t)^  l]t)5eAf  cA]t 
a'Iiacc  A5Af  CÁÍI  A  leAcc  pell)  5ACA  Iao]  ;  A5Af  511]!  Ab  ] 
A  u)3ioi)  A  ir)í\é'A]|t,  A3A1'  &  A5  iA]t|tAi6  e^tice'  A5Ar  lOlJt)- 
clop)!)]  A|i  Ai)  b-peAjt  bo  ti)A|ibA]8  Ó,  A5A|'  6  p&it)  beó^  ?'' 


santry  tliat  it  is  unlucky  to  meet  a  red-Iiaired  woman,  before  any  one 
else,  in  the  morning;  and  we  knew  many  people,  who,  if  a  red-haired 
woman  be  the  first  person  they  meet  in  the  morning,  will  turn  home  and 
defer  their  journey  to  the  next  day,  even  if  their  business  be  of  the 
greatest  importance. 

I  (i]\\]c.  Eric  was  a  fine  paid  either  in  money  or  goods,  for  an  alleged 
trespass  or  loss.  According  to  the  old  laws  the  penalty  of  death,  due  to 
the  law  by  a  murderer,  was  allowed  to  be  conunuted  to  an  eiic  or  fine, 
to  be  paid  to  the  next  of  kin  of  the  murdered.  Uciicc,  this  man  was 
demanding  eric  for  the  death  of  his  father. 


133 

that  when  he  came  to  the  brink  of  tlie  precipice  he  baulked 
the  leap.  I  enquired  if  she  would  accept  the  hand  of  any 
other  person  who  would  perform  the  leap ;  she  replied  that 
she  never  saw  a  man  who  wore  worse  clothing  than  I  did;  but 
she  found  no  fault  with  my  personal  appearance ;  and  she  said 
that  if  I  would  make  the  leap,  she  would  accept  me.  There- 
upon, I  tucked  myself  up  in  the  midst  of  my  skins,  then 
proceeding  to  the  steep  behind  me,  I  took  my  race  to  the 
margin  of  the  precipice,  and  sprang  over  in  a  truly  swift, 
scientific  manner  to  the  opposite  side.  I  then  made  a  second 
leap  back,  and  could  have  leaped  over  it  oftener,  if  I  had 
chosen.  Donait,  thereupon,  came  to  meet  me  :  she  threw  her 
arms  around  my  neck,  and  thrice  kissed  me.  She  stripped 
me  of  my  skins,  gave  me  fit  clothing,  and  brought  me  to  her 
own  house  that  night.  As  I  arose  early  the  next  morning, 
she  bound  me  under  an  obligation  to  perform  that  leap  every 
year.  So,  Conan,"  said  Fionn,  "  there  is  your  question 
answered." 

"  Win  vi-^tory  and  blessings,"  said  Conan,  "  because  you     Q_,    Ji  - — 
are  truly  an  intelligent  and  learned  man,  and  it  contributes  "^" 

much  to  my  satisfaction  and  amusement  to  listen  to  you  :  but 
iiou-  tell  me  wiio  among  the  Tenian  heroes  js  he,  who  leaps 
over  his  own  grave-stone  and  leac/it  every  day  ;  whose  own 
daughter  is  his  mother,  and  who  is  demanding  eric  and 
reparation  from  the  man  who  killed  him  though  he  is  himself 
alive  ?" 

*  iJeó,  alive.  This  story  of  the  vital  spark  having  assumed  human  flesh 
again,  is  connected  with  the  doctrine  of  transmigration  of  souls,  believed 
in  by  the  Irish  pagans.  The  argument  is,  that  he  was  Daelgas  himself, 
because  it  was  the  vital  spark  or  spirit  of  Daelgas  that  flew  into  the 
mouth  of  his  mother,  and  yet,  as  though  he  was  not  Daelgas  himself 
but  another  being  animated  by  his  spirit,  he  sought  reparation  for  the 
dj.ah  of  that  same  Daelgas  whom  he  considered  to  have  been  his  father, 
merely  because  he  assumed  human  flesh  a  second  time.  Similar  in  some 
measure  to  this  is  the  story  of  the  queen  of  Ireland  and  the  salmon  of 
the  Boyne.     Vide  Transactions  of  the  Ossianic  Soc.  vol.  I.  p.  28. 


134, 

"  jOpeófAt»  féji)  fir)  buic,"  A71  "piotjt).  "2lot>  &o  Uecib 
cívjtlA  ]n7|teAfAi)  ib]]!  6^  CAO|feAc  )'é]vr)e  bAn?'  nnq t)ci|i-T] 
fí^  cóirb-5le]C  bív  cot),  eAÓoi;^  0|*cu)t  rtjAc  C|tioiT)CAii;i)  a5A|* 
<Dao15A|*  rrjAC  Cai]x|1]11  Caij*  ;  A5A]-  i)]  [lAbAfA  ]*ai)  n}-bA|lo 
tjív  lucc  eAb|tAT)i)A  e]le   b'f\)]M)r)í^]h  6]|iioi)t;  ai)  Uv  f|t;, 

A5A]'  bO  CUjC  'DA0l5Af  AT)0.  jj*  AT)I)  "ni)  C^ll^jO  l^SiOt) 
ívluitjt)   AOUCÚJAÓ  bo  bj  A5  í)A0l5Af    Óf    A    C]01JI}  ;    A5A|*    bo 

c|ioii7  b'A  PÓ5A,  5uit  l]i?5  CAOjt  c|to]6eA]t5  Af  a  béAÍ  |or)A 
béAl  I'll),  5u|i  bA  cAob-Cfiort)  coit]tAc  ba  é]f  f)i)  ],  50  ]iu5 
Se^i)  leACAT)-n7ullAi5  tt)]c  au  <vin?ril^  '^  ]0t)í)bu6A;  A5Af  ó 
T)AC  ^fqc  Apjirt)  e]le  60,  CU5A6  A]i)]n)  acaji  A]|t,  A5Af  bo 
b-o]leA6  A5A1*  bo  leAfu]5eAó  50  n^Ajc  50  ceAtjr)  a  feAcc 
Ti7-bliA5Ai)  é;  AjAf  if  bo't)  céAb  itAb|tA  b^O||*e  bo  ]\-\^), 
he]t  A5  léin7U]5  CAjt  a  Iiacc  A5Af  ca^i  a  leAcc  }:é]\) ;  A5Af 

CÍV   A   1)]ll   A5  lAltftA^Ó  éTJllCe   A]]\  0|'CUJt  TtJAC  Cuioti^cATiju, 

3u|t  Ab  é  f]!)  fUAfslAÓ  bo  ceAfcA,  A  Cl;oi)Aii)/'  A|t  piour). 

"  Be||t  buAÓ  A5Af  beAijijAcc,"  aji  Coijívi),  "A5Af  Ab<vi|i 
l]on)  Ai)0]f,  A  fU^c  p'béitjtje,  cja  i|*  feAjifi  A5Af  if  n)eA|*A, 
C]A  ir  "7Ó  AjAf  Tf  Iu5a6,  c]a  ][♦  luA^ce  A5Af  II*  rr)Aille,  a 
b-piAijijAiseAcc  ?" 

"  ^eiri  pé]!)  ]|'  peívitfi,"  Afi  }-ioi)t),  "  A^Af  ^t)eAíiA  'Diib' 
ó  í)bub-fl]Ab2,  bu]i)e  Af  rf7eAfA  Ofob ;  ó|ji  r)í  búb<\]|tc  ]v;Ari) 
Aoi)  focAÍ  ]te  i;eAC  acc  Aic]f  i;ó  |n)óeA|i5A6  ;  a5A)*  At)  zé 
c/jópeAÓ  A[i  c6ólor)5A&  é,  t)]  6éAt)<\6  a  leAf  ai;  Uv  ]'|t}; 
A5<v|*  LiA5<\i)  LuAirnue^c  5  LuACAifi  'DbeA^AjÓ^,  biqije  Af 
luAiceÓíob;  asaj-  l^ipe  Lejf^eAi'bAil'*,  ^joUa  ceiije  cojite 
ijA  b-2lltT)uii;e,  buiue  Af  mAille  Ojob  ;  out  A|*  é  i'iubsxl  Iao] 
fAtb)iA   A|*    n^ó    bo    ]x]i)    HjAn),  ceAcc   ó'i;)    b'cobAiv   acív  a 

'  'OeATtA  tmb,  was  a  member  of  the  Foniaii  forces,  but  his  name  is 
seldom  found  in  Fenian  narratives  or  poems. 

2  tiubfljAb.     The  black  or  dark  mountain. 

'  luACAjn  tibeA5Ai6.  A  large  district  of  country  that  comprises  the 
baronies  of  Clanniorris,  Irachticonor,  Tuaghanaicnie,  and  Magoniliy  in 
the  county  of  Kerry.  It  was  so  called  from  Deaghadh  Mac  Siun,  an 
Eruanian. 


135 

"  I  will  tf'll  you  about  that,"  said  Fionn  :— "  Two  Fenian  r  {  ep 
chiefs  of  my  people,  namely,  Oscur  son  of  Criomthann,  and 
Daolgas  son  of  Cairrill  Cas,  one  day  quarrelled  about  a  fight 
that  occurred  between  two  dogs ;  and  I  was  not  at  home  on 
that  day,  nor  any  other  of  the  Fenians  who  could  have  inter- 
fered to  any  purpose;  and  Daolgas  w^as  slain  on  that  occasion. 
The  beautiful,  marriageable  daughter  of  Daolgas,  came  over 
him,  and  having  stooped  down  to  kiss  him,  a  red  spark  of  fire 
flew  from  his  month  into  hers,  and  she  became  pregnant  in 
consequence,  and  brought  forth  a  broad-crowned  son,  in  due 
time ;  and,  since  no  other  name  was  found  for  him,  he  was 
called  by  the  name  of  his  father.  He  was  nurtured  in  a  fitting 
manner,  until  his  seventh  year ;  and  the  first  feats  of  youthful 
folly  that  he  performed  was  to  leap  over  his  own  grave-stone 
and  leaclit:  he  is  now  demanding  eric  from  Oscur  son  of 
Criomthann,  so  there  is  your  question  answered  for  you,  O 
Conan,"  said  Fionn. 

"  Win  victory  and  blessings,"  said  Conan,  "  and  tell  me 
now,  0  Fenian  Prince,  who  are  the  best  and  the  worst  ;    who  ^ 

the  largest  and  the  smallest ;  who  the  swiftest  and  the  slowest  a  •  4 

men  in  the  Fenian  ranks,"  ^() .  f^ 

"  1  myself, ""  replied  Fionn,  "  am  the  best  man  ;  Deara 
Dubh  from  Dubh-Shliabh  is  the  worst  man  among  them ;  for 
he  never  yet  spoke  a  word  to  any  person,  except  reproach 
and  provocation  ;  and  whoever,  while  fasting,  saw  him  in  the 
morning,  could  do  no  good  during  that  day.  Liagan  Lttaim- 
ncach  (the  swift),  from  Luachair  Dheaghaidh,  is  the  swiftest 
among  them ;  and  Life  Leisgeamhuil  (the  slothful),  the  fire 
lighter  (stoker)  of  Almhain,  is  the  slowest  among  them  ;  for 
it  is  the  longest  journey  he  ever  made,  during  the  length  of  a 


« llpe  LeI^5eAn^Ml,  was  anotlicr  Fenian  undistinguished  in  the  records 
or  traditions  of  Ireland ;  he  appears  to  have  been  the  deity  of  sluggards ; 
'tis  more  than  probable  that  the  river  Liffey  takes  its  name  from  him. 


d^.) 


136 

ij-bo|iA|*  tjA  b-2llri7uii)e'  5uf  a  le^bAO  ^éji)  a  b-ci5  ^'^ 
bfiu]5t)e,  "  A5Af  i)Aol5A]*  n^AC  ÍDub-jojle,  bujije  Ay  AO|iibe 
Óíob ;  AjAf  roAC  '^]r)e,  eAÓor),  ai)  c-AbAC  bcA5,  bii]T)e  Af 
líiJAÓ  Ojob  :  5U|i  Ab  é  fjr)  piiAfjlAÓ  bo  CG]yze,  a  Cboijivit)/' 
Aji  ■piOTjr),  "  A5Af  Tja  bio6rtjAO]b  m^p,  ^o  i;i  buf  n)0 ;  n)A 
cii  luce  o]|t^*]be  vd  eAlAÓAi)  A5U|b  cu5CA]t  cujAp)!)  jAb; 
ói|i  t)í  5T)ívcAC  liorrjf  A  bejc  Aot;  0]6ce  5AI)  ccol." 

"jrjiJir  iiAjc  ÓAtt)  c|ieAb  ]Ab  t;A  ceojl  ]]•  b]i));e  leAc 
■puAjtA]!*  TtjAtii  ?"  Aji  Cot;í\t). 

"  ji;i;eói-Ab/'  Ayt  "pioi^ij.  "  2li)  cai)  co  bi  feAcc  5-caca 
tjA  5t;i\ic  ■pbéir)t;e  a]\i  aoij  tí)ív3,  A5Af  có3bAib  a  5-c|tAT)i)- 
501P  ÓJ*  A  5-ceAi)T)Aib ;  A5A]*  5luA]|*]oi*  At;  5A0C  5ló|iAC 
5íx)bceAc  5lAt;-f*uAit,  c|tíocA  A5Af  cAjtf  a^  t|*  jxó  bit;i)  lion; 
y]t);  A5AI*  At)  CA1)  o]|ileA5CA|t  ceAC  t)-óIa  A5uit)i;  a  t)-2ll- 
n)lx]^),  A3Af  Ai)  CAD  éAjljb  t)A  bAileAti)A]t)  t)a  C0|tA]r)i) 
CAOrb-slAtjA  bo  it)A]cib  i;a  7^é]T)t)e,  at)  blo|*5-béiTT7  beip]b 
A  T)-bei|ie  fit)  A3  buAjt;  ^'a  bófibAib  i;a  B|tui5t;e,  ]]-  jtó  bft^t; 
l]OiT?  y]x).  ]y  h]m  l]on)  posAjt  t^AO]leAt)t;,  A3A]'  coi3ibil 
t)A  3-co|i,  A3Af  ^uA]n)  coit)t)e  "Citais-líóe,  A3Af  Ab[tivt) 
r|ii  n)]c  2t)eA|i6A^;    A3Af  |:eAb  n}]C   Lusa^O,  A3Af  bófib* 


1  2llri)Aii).  Now  Allen,  the  palace  of  Fionn  Mac  Cumhaill,  situated  in 
the  county  of  Kildare.  It  is  a  notorious  fact,  that  whenever  Macpherson 
met  this  word  he  changed  it  into  2llbAit),  (Scotland). 

*  Crt'MJPSoil  or  CtxAt)t)5Ail,  in  the  modern  acceptation  of  the  word, 
means  palings,  set  up  as  a  protection  to  prevent  trespass  upon  anj'  place, 
or  a  stockade  ;  it  is  derived  I'roni  c\\sijr)  a  shaft,  and  50|l  battle. 

'  Cttj  njjc  2t)eAttóA.  Three  sons  of  Meardha.  Tlie  Editor  does  not 
remtnibcr  having  met  any  extract  calculated  to  reflect  liglit  on  the 
three  sons  of  Meardha,  unless  2J}oAt\6A  was  another  name  of  2I)At)ATi  which 
is  most  prohable  for  the  following  reason  : — 2le6  0|nvió,  the  Irish 
Orpheus,  was  usually  called  Mac  Manair  by  our  bards.  We  are  informed 
in  an  old  tract  entitled  CAccttA  2t)l)U|f\CA6Aic,  now  in  the  library  of  the 
Eoyal  Irisli  Academy,  that  Oirfidh  had  been  pursuing  his  studios  at 
SÍ5C,  the  Tuatha  Dedanan  druidical  academy  in  Connaclit,  wiien  lie  was 
informed  that  his  father  had  been  slain  in  the  battle  of  Goria  in  Loch- 
Ian,  by  the  king  of  that  country:  it  happened  that  the  three  sons  of  that 


137 

suiníner's  day,  to  walk  from  the  fountain  at  the  gate  of  Al- 
mliuiii  to  his  own  bed  in  the  house  !  Daolgas  son  of  Dubhgoile 
is  the  tallest  man;  and  Mac  Miniie^  tlie  little  dwarf,  is  the 
smallest  man  among  them.  This,  then,  is  the  solution  of  your 
query,  0  Conan/'  replied  Fionn  ;  "  but  let  us  not  continue  as 
we  are  any  longer ;  if  you  have  musicians,  or  skilled  perform- 
ers, let  them  be  brought  forward,  for  it  is  not  my  habit  to  pass 
any  one  night  without  music." 

"Tell  me,"  said  Conan,  "which  are  the  sweetest  strains  you 
ever  enjoyed." 

"  I  will  tell  you,"  replied  Fionn.  "  When  the  seven  constai.t 
battalions  of  the  Fenians  assemble  on  our  plain  and  raise  their 
standards  of  chivalry  above  their  heads,  then  when  the  howhng 
whistling  blast  of  the  dry,  cold  wind,  rushes  through  them  and 
over  them,  that  is  very  sweet  to  me.  When  the  drinking  hall 
is  furnished  in  Almhuin,  and  the  cup-bearers  hand  the  bright 
cups  of  chaste  workmanship  to  the  chiefs  of  the  Fenians,  the 
ring  of  the  cups,  when  drained  to  the  last  drop,  on  the  tables 
of  the  Bniighin,  is  very  sweet  to  me.  Sweet  to  me  is  the 
scream  of  the  seagull,  and  of  the  heron,  the  roar  of  the  waves 
on  Traigh-lidhe  (Tralee),  the  song  of  the  three  sons  of  Meardha, 
the  whistling  of  Mac  Lufchaidh,  the  Dord  of  Fearsiraradh,  the- 


(on 


ÍL 


king  had  been  his  fellow  students  at  tlie  same  time.  To  be  avenged  for 
the  death  of  his  father,  the  fairy  princess  Ifinn,  who  liad  been  a  dear 
friend  of  liis  fatlier,  presented  him  witli  a  golden  lyre  or  harp ;  amongst 
the  extraordinary  and  supernatural  powers  possessed  by  this  lyre,  was 
that  of  causing  such  as  lieard  its  peculiar  plaintive  strains,  to  die  within 
tlie  space  of  one  year  after.  Oirfidh  contrived  to  play  upon  his  lyre  for 
the  sons  of  the  king  of  Lochlin,  who  accordingly  died.  The  plaintive 
strains  of  Mac  IManair,  i.e.  SiATifA  rise  ri)]c  Sf)Ai}Airi,  were  a  warning  of 
speedy  dissolution  to  such  as  heard  them.  We  find,  in  the  MS.  account 
of  the  battle  of  Magh  Muirtheimne,  that  Cuchullainn  frequently  com- 
plained that  his  death  was  inevitable  since  he  heard  the  mournful  strains 
of  Oirfidh's  lyre. 

*  t5ót\í)  or  t)óti6  FMot),     The  horn  or  trumpet  used  by  the  Fenians. 
10 


13S 

'FeA]if5<^T^<^l'5,  A5A|*  5U]c  t)a  cu<\]ce  at;  cfeAt»  n^iofA  tio 
fiirbttA;  A5Af  f5eAiT)50il  i;a  njuc  a  tt)í\5  6i]ci)e^ ;  ^S^r 
ijuaU  I) a  |*5ol  A  t)-*t)o]]te^/'  ^S^T  ^  fc>úbAi|tc  aij  Lao]  : — 

l)íVT)-í5Í5  co]pi)e  A5  buAi)  t^e  c|\A]5 ; 
Wo  i:o5A]|i  coiTjrje  Zp.!\-\^.V]^e, 
t)UA|i)c  Tter  At)  lAe)  n)-h^^c  nj-b^ji). 

cniAn  cxvtjAic  'r  at?  h-Vé]vv, 

í^eAti  &íob  r&1")i  IT  PexXfi  Sjob  bo^tb  ; 
t^eAn  ojle  A5  íviTtiOTÍ)  tja  tjeoU, 
t»A  bjijtje  'i)A  5AC  ceól  a  c-cottA&. 

2in  noi^irA  sUr  Aitt  aij  n^uiti, 
2lt)  uAi|t  t)Ac  í;A5A|ó  peAn  a  10115  5 
liof)CAi)  bo  bein  lAr5  1  >'-cm, 
Ctíól  A  co&AlcA,  h]r}ri  a  c-cotiAÓ. 

PeATioAiU  ti)Ac  ■pblPn,  íeAtv  bA  &|atj, 

ÍA&A  A  l&ltt),   ICAbAlfl  A  l0fV5  ; 

■Niott  cart)  rs&l  'ijA'fi  r5Aeil  a  rtút) . 
Ceól  coblACA  Ijoti)  A  cottAb. 

"  Bei|t  buAÓ  A5Af  beAi)i)Acc/'  A|i  Cor)i\T)^  "  AjAf  fijiJlT 
6A(t)  Ai)oi]'  5AC  bupe  b'éA|iuif*  t)ó  b'joiDcívir)!!-  ii]Arb  :  qA 
Aij  bu|t)e  cuAi6  Aiit  AOt)  coir,  ^3^'^r  <^1I^  <^orj  U\itt),  A3Ar  ajji 

AOt)  C-|-Úll,  bo  CO|tA  A  ]tACA  ;  A5A|*  bO  ]l-\V  A  luAOAi*  Ó  "pbl" 
AUDAlb    (b]]i]Om;    ^50>r    C|teAb    ^Ó    T)-AbAlléAll     At)     5T)C\1C- 

f:oc aI  yo,   '  n^Ajt  |tu5A6  Koc^  50  ceAc  'pblU')  ?'  " 

"jUOeó|-Ab  riU  bu]c/'  A]t  "pjoi;!).  "2loi)  bo  ÍAecib  b'A 
i}-beACA|*A  A5Ar  rtjAiqb  t)A  'p6]i)))e  50  CeArbAi|i  LuAcytA, 
A5Ar  1)]  b-piiA]iArt)Ai|t  b'r]AC  AT)  U\  ri'Ji  ^cc  Iaoj  aUca, 
A5Af  bo  bitucAi6e  6,  A5A|*  CU5A6  cÚ5ait)|*a  b'A  |to]r)i}  é, 
A5Ar  cu^Af  A  C05A  bo  5AC  cAOTfeAc  péiT)i)e  6e,  ASA]* 
i)j   |iivii)]5   Tt)é  f éjT)   Acc   A  colpAj   piv  6eo]3 ;  asaj-  cívitjiS 

1  2I);\5  eiirije.     The  plain  of  Eitlme. 

2  NuAjU  i)A  1*501  A  i)-tionte.  Loud  laughter  in  Derry.  This  passage 
may  also  be  translated  the  hum  of  the  schools  in  the  oak  wood,  wliich  may 


l.*30 

voice  of  the  cuckoo  in  the  first  mouth  of  summer,  the  grunting 
of  the  hogs  on  Magh  Eitne,  and  the  echo  of  loud  Uiughtcr  in 
Derrv/'     And  lie  sung  this  Lay  : — 

The  Dord  of  the  green-topped  woods, 
The  dashing  of  the  wave  against  the  shore  ; 
Or  the  force  of  the  waves  at  Tralee, 
When  they  meet  the  Lee  of  the  white  trout. 

Three  (men)  who  joined  the  Fenians, 
One  of  them  was  gentle,  one  was  fierce  ; 
Another  was  contemplating  the  stars. 
They  were  sweeter  than  any  melody. 

The  azure  wave  of  the  ocean, 
When  a  man  cannot  distinguish  its  course, 
A  swell  that  sweeps  fish  upon  dry  land, 
A  melody  to  lull  to  sleep — sweet  its  effect. 

Feargaill,  son  of  Fionn,  a  man  quick  in  execution, 
Long  and  smooth  the  career  of  his  glory, 
Never  composed  a  melody  which  did  not  reveal  his  mind, 
A  lulling  repose  to  me  were  his  strains. 

"  Win  victory  and  blessings,"  said  Conan,  "  and  tell  nic 
now  the  names  of  all  those  whom  you  have  ever  satirised  or 
dispraised — who  was  the  man  that,  having  only  one  leg,  one 
arm,  and  one  eye,  escaped  from  you  in  consequence  of  his 
swiftness,  and  outstripped  the  Fenians  of  Eire,  and  why  is 
this  proverb  used,  '  As  Roc  came  to  the  house  of  Fionn  ?'  " 

"  I  will  tell  you  that,"  said  Fionn.  "  One  day  the  chief 
of  the  Fenians  and  I  M'ent  to  Teamhair  Luachra,  and  we  took 
nothing  in  the  chace  that  same  day  but  one  fawn.  When  it 
had  been  cooked,  it  was  fetched  to  me  for  the  purpose  of  di- 
viding it.  I  gave  a  portion  of  it  to  each  of  the  Fenian  chiefs, 
and  there  remained  none  for  my  own  share  but  a  haunch  bone. 

be  the  more  appropriate  meaning,  since  we  are  told  that  some  druids 
held  their  academies  in  groves  of  oak, 
3  Roc.    The  Irish  Cyclops. 


T 


140 

OobA  5<^<^1C0'   tT)AC  KoTjiVlT),    A5<Vf    b'lA]l|t  AT)  ColfA  Ofiror^, 

A5Ar  cu3Ar  bo  é ;  A5Af  a  búbAniCj  5Ufi  aji  |-ot)  a  ]tACA  cujai* 
bo  é,  ASAf  bul  A|i  Ai)  b-pAjcce,  A5Af  }f]  ivó]i  50  ij-beACAÓ 
leAc  fljse   AT)  cAi;   bo  11115  a  b|i<xcAi|i  ^óiu  Ai|t,   éAboT), 

CAO]lce  TT)AC  KoTjiX^T),    A5Af  CUJ  AtJ  ColpA  CHJAtl^f  A  ;    A5A|* 

V]  6eA|titt)ATT)Aifi  b'irt)|ieAfiVT;  Atjt)  acc  7*|t).  Hiojt  ciAt) 
bi'qrjU  n^Aji  n»?  50  b-^ACArr)AT|t  acac  n)ó]t-co]]it]-^te  c})<\n)- 
■|teATT?A]t,  bub-ÓuAibfeAC,  boi-6eAlbAC^  A5  joidIajc  a|v  aot; 

coif,    A]|l  AOl)  l^lTt),    A5A|*    A]|l    AOt)    C-yÚ]l,    A^    CCACC    f  a't) 

UcAiji,  A5A|*  beAr>0Ai5eAr  buioi).  "PjieASfXAitrjn  P^'i? 
5-cutT7A  5-céAbT)A  é,  A5AÍ*  b'fiApitAijeAf  be  cjA  ai;  ^ic 
Af  A  b-c^]t)]  j  ?  '  <t)o  co]f5  njo  Iúca  A5Af  n)o  likrbA,  a3a^ 
n;o  cleAf A,  bo  cívijaÓ/  a|i  fé;  '  'A5A|*  bo  cuaIa  t)ac  itA^b 
^•Ai;  borbAi)  bu]i)c  bo  b'f-eA|i]i  u]n)  tjjó  ^ix  ru|*A  A  "pblOU  : 
3uit  Ab  uji^e  x]-t)  cCvT)A&fA  A5  TAii|tA]6  iT;AO]i)e  A5AI*  rr)iS]t- 
lOfA  0|ic/  21  búbAT|tc-fA  b'A  TT)o  l]on)  At)  b]oc  bjiAOijAC  u]le 
1JAC  r|obiiAii;i)  a  beA5  \)\  a  tbó|i  bo.  21  bubAnic  ye,  31111 
*  b|téA3AC  i;a  bA0|i;e  a  bCtbAHtc  i)Xv|t  eAjiA]*  aoi;  bii]i;e 
■|t]ATT).'  21  bubA|tc-fA  'b'A  n)0  bij]i)e  e]|*ioi)  t)ac  eA|tpu]i)t}  é.' 

'  2t)A]|*eA6,'  A|t  AT)  C-ACAC,  'cAbAjft  At)  colpA  cÁb'  líi]rb 
ÓAtr»,  A3A|-  b|A6  mo  -fliVT)  ^Ó  A\)  b-péitji)  ^UA  6lA]3  fp) ; 
A3A|-  i;AC    lé]3CeAll    ÓAtt)    b'ACA    acc    ^-Ajb    A1)    ColpA,    A3A|* 

t)Ac  3AbcA|i  3itc|n;  oiirt)  1)5  30  b-cii3Ab  at;  céAb  leinj.' 
2lfi  1JA  clo|-  i-p;  bAri)CA,  CU3A]*  Ai;  colpA  ]ot)a  U\iit)  bo'ij 
ACAC,  •<^3<vr  M'^S^^r  ^^1^  ]*oi;i;\7b  ]*íoc-í\(tbA  at;  bAile  ;^  A3Af 
céib  <v  n;uii;3íi;  a  ftACA  A5A|*  a  luAÓAifb'A  AOt;  co]|*  ó  cCxc 
ArtjAC.  2l]t  TjA  -pAiCfiu  ]•]])  bo  ri;Aic]b  TjA  'p&iTjije,  bo  Iji;- 
3eAbA|t  A  t;-biA|3  ai)  ACA13,  ■^ó^T  cíxijAÓfA  A3Af  ao]* 
eAlA6t;A^  AT)  bA]le  a]i  rbulUc  ai;  búi;A  b'A  b-|:éACA]i;,  a3A|* 

'  3obA  3A0]ce  should  be  written  BaI-jAoicg,  breeze  of  wind,  because 
he  was  so  swift  of  foot  that,  it  is  said,  he  could  outrun  the  March  wind. 
"  ]onjlAr  5Al-5Aoire  Ajp,  CAcb  i)o  cculcA,  Galgaoithe  floats  over  the  tops  of 
mounds."     Vide  Bruighen  Eochaidh  Dheig  Deirg. 

*  CA|t  roi)i)U]b  ric-ixn^A  ao  bA|lo,  probably  means  a  wooden  paling 
by  which  the  dwellings  were  defended. 


141 

Gobha  Gaoithe,  son  of  Ronan,  presented  himself,  and  request- 
ed me  to  give  him  the  haunch  ;  I,  accordingly,  gave  it  to  him  : 
he  then  declared  that  I  gave  him  that  portion  on  account  of 
his  swiftness  of  foot :  and  he  went  out  on  the  plain,  but  he 
had  only  gone  a  short  distance  when  Caoilte  son  of  Eonan, 
his  own  brother,  overtook  him,  and  brought  the  haunch  back 
again  to  me,  and  we  had  no  further  dispute  about  the  matter. 
We  had  not  been  long  so,  when  we  saw  a  huge,  obnoxious, 
massy-boned,  black,  detestable  giant,  having  only  one  eye, 
one  arm,  and  one  leg,  hop  forward  towards  us  :  he  saluted 
us;  I  returned  the  salutation,  and  asked  him  whence  he  came. 
'I  am  come  by  the  powers  of  the  agility  of  my  arm  and  leg,' 
responded  he, '  having  heard  there  is  not  one  man  in  tlie  world 
moreUberal  in  bestowing  gifts  than  you,  0  Fionn;  therefore, 
I  am  come  to  solicit  wealth  and  valuable  gifts  from  you/  I 
replied,  that  were  all  the  wealth  of  the  world  mine  1  would 
give  him  neither  little  nor  much.  He  then  declared  '  they  were 
aU  liars  who  asserted  that  I  never  gave  a  refusal  to  any  person.' 
I  replied,  that  if  he  were  a  man,  I  would  not  give  him  a  re- 
fusal. '  "Well,  then,'  said  the  giant,  '  let  me  have  that  haunch 
you  have  in  your  hand,  and  I  will  say  good  bye  to  tlie  Fenians, 
provided  that  you  allow  me  the  length  of  the  haunch  as  a  dis- 
tance, and  that  I  am  not  seized  upon  until  I  make  my  first 
hop.*  Upon  hearing  this  I  gave  the  haunch  into  the  giant's 
hand,  and  he  hopped  over  the  lofty  stockades  of  the  town  : 
he  then  made  use  of  the  utmost  swiftness  of  his  one  leg  to 
outstrip  all  the  rest  (of  the  Fenians).  When  the  Fenian 
chiefs  saw  that,  they  started  in  pursuit  of  the  giant,  while  I 
and  the  band  of  minstrels  of  the  town  went  to  the  top  of  the 

s  2lor  eAUÓTjA.  Artists,  consisting  of  OUamhs,  bards,  seanachaidhes, 
and  other  classes  who  professed  the  arts,  sciences,  &c.  these  were  in 
aftertimes,  called  t^leAr3A]c  caIaoija  (wand-bearers  of  arts.)  &c.,  be- 
cause each  professor  bore  a  wand  indicative  of  his  calling  ;  t  lis  wand 
■was  the  diploma  received,  qualifying  him  to  profess  his  art. 


14^ 

Aíj  CAT)  bo  COi;A|lCpA  AU  C-ACAC  A5  ]rt)CeACC  UAlTJt)  A  b-^A&, 
&0  C\l]-\l]Oy  lOft^tA    |tACA    UII7UTI7,    A^A]*    1)]   jtllSA]*  &'A|tn}  llOTt) 

Acc  T17AC  At)  lo]\)  Art)  liv]rt),  ^S^r  ^'^5^'^r  !  ^)-^1<í^1S  cíi]c,  aja^* 
■|tu5A]*  A]]!  A  i)-be]|te  a]|i  fl^Ab  aij  K15,'  A5A|*  bo  |iu5a^  a|x 
Ai)  b-c]t]Ai)  njeAÓAtjAC  bjob  a  l.u]n)T)eAC,  A5Af  |iu5A]*  Ai]t 
ir)4<]t]h  t)A  'péiDije  A5  2lc  hó,^   {ji]y  a  jiivi6ceA]t  Sljc  Luaitj 

At)|U5)  ;  A^Af  bo  5AbAf  COfAC  1)A  CÓflA  A5  H]VV  Ai;  KuA]5,^ 

éAÓot),  lív]tt)  ÓeA|*  |te  C|mAcívi)  Cboi;t)Acc;  a5A|*  bA  5]0|i|tA 
'i)a  irA^b  u|tCAT]t  uApr)  c^ ;  a^aj*  |ii^]t)]6  ai)  c-acac  ]ióti)An)fA 
bo  co|*A  cio|irt)A  CA|i  6a]'a  Kua6  rb^c  2t)o6u]|ii;t)  ;■*  A5Af  ]ió 
l]i)5CA|*A  i;a  6|A]3,  ajac  eif^oi;  liviii)  6eA|*  ]te  c]|t  cpi^cioU 
6]|i]ot)i)  50  b-^Af  BblUUe  b-^AbAifi  j^  <^5<^r  c"S  ^i>  c-ACAc 
léin),  A5Af*  bA  ]*ATbu]l  ]te  \e]n)  f0|i  tdu]|i  ],  A5A]*  cu5AfA 
fibe  pijA  6]Ai3,  3"^  Ti"5^r  ^li^  caoI  co^fe  A^^t,  30  b-cu5Af 
ceA]ic  A  8|ion)A  ]ie  k\[i.     *6a5có||í  Óujc   a  T;-beA|tTtT)Aif, 

•A  )-bl1)l)/  Ajt  Al)  C-ACAC,  '  Ó111  V]  flOC  bO  ll^UTjeAfA  C01T)- 
jjoll,    ACC   |t|f    AT)   b-"p6lt)t}/    21    bÚbvVjtCI'A    1)AC    Ajl    fliVT)  AT) 

pblATW    5AT)   TT)e   ^é|D.     o^^-ini^  ^"I':>'?    "^^n  n^?  50  T^"5 

L]A5AU     LuAlTDTjeAC     Ó     LllACAIIV     iDb^AJAO     0|tUlT)t),      A5Af 

CAOjlce  rr)AC  Koi)vVit)  |oi)a  6|ai5,  A5Af  Iuaca  i;a  'p'^iyue, 
A]t  ceAi;i)A ;  A5Af  bo  cA5]iAbAii  ylc^^   ó  5AC  i)-bu]i)e  aco 

'  SljAb  KÍ5.     Literally,  the  mountain  of  the  king. 

2  iilc  bo.  The  Ford  of  the  kine,  possibly  so  called  even  before  the  re- 
nowned bull  of  Ulster,  Dona  Cuailgne,  had  stopped,  and  deposited  there 
a  portion  of  the  carcase  of  his  vanquislied  opponent,  the  Fionn  Badhna, 
or  supernatural  bull  of  Connacht,  which  he  carried  on  his  horns,  and  in 
consequence  of  which  the  ford  obtained  the  name  of  !dlc-iiij-luAii) 
(Athlone),  which  it  retains  to  this  day.  Vide  Tain  Bo  Cuailgne,  If 
we  may  come  to  this  conclusion  from  the  nature  of  our  text,  it  is  pretty 
clear  that  the  place  must  have  been  a  fane  dedicated  to  the  bovine  cultus. 
Tlic  dispersion  of  the  members  of  the  famous  Connacht  bull  had  some 
mythic  meaning,  and  was  not  the  consequence  of  mere  chance  :  it  may 
liave  been  a  localization  of  that  of  the  members  of  Osiris  and  Boghman. 

3  K]i)tj  Ai)  Tiu*\15.  Peak  or  clilf  of  the  chace,  probably  so  called  on 
account  of  the  pursuit  of  the  rue. 

*  Qax  Uua6  n)]c  ?r)o6uitti)'n  Easroe  of  the  son  of  Modhurn,  who  was  a 
famous  Druid. 


143 

dun  to  watch  their  proceedings.  "When  I  saw  that  the  giant  Ci-  if  *!)  - 
had  outstripped  them  a  considerable  distance^  I  put  on  my 
running  habiliments,  and  taking  no  weapon  but  Mac  au  Loin 
in  my  hand,  I  started  after  the  others.  I  overtook  the  hind- 
most division  on  Sliabh  an  Righ,  the  middle  (next)  division 
at  Limerick,  and  the  chiefs  of  the  Ecnians  at  Ath  Bo,  which  is 
called  Ath-Luain  (Athlone),  and  those  first  in  the  pursuit  at 
Einn-an-Ruaigh,  to  the  right  hand  side  of  Cruachan  of  Con- 
nacht,  where  he  (the  giant)  was  distant  less  than  a  javelin's 
cast  from  me.  The  giant  passed  on  before  me,  and  crossed 
Eas  Roe  (now  Bullyshannon)  of  the  son  of  Modhuirn,  without 
wetting  his  foot :  I  leaped  over  it  after  him.  He  then  directed 
his  course  towards  the  estuary  of  Binn-Edair,  keeping  the  cir- 
cuit of  Eire  to  his  right  hand.  The  giant  leaped  over  (tlie 
estuary),  and  it  was  a  leap  similar  to  a  flight  over  the  sea. 
I  sprang  after  him,  and  having  caught  him  by  the  small  of  the 
back,  laid  him  prostrate  on  the  earth.  '  You  have  dealt  un- 
justly by  me,  0  Fionn,'  cried  the  giant ;  '  for  it  was  not  with 
you  I  arranged  the  combat,  but  with  the  Fenians.'  I  replied, 
that  the  Fenians  were  not  perfect,  except  I  myself  were  with 
them.  ^Ye  had  not  remained  long  thus,  when  Liagan  Luaim- 
neach  from  Luachar  Deaghaidh  came  up  to  us ;  he  was  fol- 
lowed by  Caoilte  Mac  Ronan,  together  with  the  swiftest  of  the 
Fenians.     Each  of  them   couched   his  javehn,  intending  to 


*  Qax  l^bltjoe  lj-ev\&Aitt.  Estuary  at  Howth.  Binn  Eadair  is  the  Irish 
name  of  Howth.  It  was  a  celebrated  spot  in  the  olden  time  ;  50  l)]ot)- 
éA&Aiti  rr)]c  OAUAitt  j\)]C  ^T)lo|c  \\o  cAitje  At)  C&A&  lot)5  nir  ■*•)  céAb  5A]r51- 
6eAc  ni<!^i')  50  b-éiMorj,  i.e.  (it  was  at  Binn-Eadair  of  Eadar  son  of  Anloich 
the  lirst  bark  and  first  champion,  that  ever  came  to  Ireland,  landed). 
Story  of  CeACAc  njAc  ^15  VA  C-ruUc,  (Ceatach  the  son  of  the  king  of  the 
Tulachs).  The  hill  of  Howth  was  a  "  look-out"  station  for  the  Fenians  ; 
because  any  invader,  who  intended  to  make  an  attack  upon  the  palace 
at  Tara,  landed  here.  It  was  here  Fionn  Mac  Curahaill  and  his  chief- 
tains were  stationed  on  the  "look-out,''  when  they  saw  tlie  mystical 
black  fog  from  the  east  approach,  and  envelope  the  whole  island. 


bo  cu]fi  t]i]'ó  vm;  'SC'SC  A5v^|•  a  rbAjtbAO  |:C\it)'  U\ri)A]b:  5166*6 

ho  AjI^CeAfA     OflflA    é.       3<^n^l*^    3^     |tU5AbAll    CjtOrDlAC    1)A 

yé]\)\)e  o]X]m]})\),   A5A]'  6']:]A|:fiAi6eA6A|i  cjieAb  At)  fu]|ieAC 

60  bi  A]V  A1)  ACAC  5At)  A  TbA|xbA&  bO  liVCA^jl.       '  í)ob'  olc  AT) 

coiT)A||tle  pi/  A|i  at;  c-acaCj  '  ójit  bo  iT)u]|i^í6e  bujTje  bob' 
^eiv|t|t  T)iv  Ti7]]*e  ATT)  éijtic'  í)o  CftuA6-cuib|teA6  at)  c-acac 
bo't)  co^  |-]t>j  A5Af  i;io]t  C1AT)  6úit)t;  50  b-rívit;]6  BjtAi)  BeA5 
0'BuA&civ]T)  b'^*ó5|tA6  t:leA5  0|trf)j*Aj  A5A|*  |iívi;5AbA|t  ai) 
Mov  VV^  b'l^bl^^UUAib  B||t]ot:)i:)  le]|*  b'Acij:  bo  leA|*A5A]& 
ceAC  tjóIa  bújtjt)  Ai;  cai;  T]V',  •a5A|*  bo  cAft]iAi;5AbA|i  at) 
c-ACAC  A  ]*ceAC  fó  U\|i  AT)  ^56,  A5A|*  bo  cu]|teA6  A  b-pi- 
A5r)A]|*e  ci\]c  é  ;  a5A|*  b'p]ApjtAi5eAbA|i  be  c^A  é  p&Tt)  ? 
'  }i0C  TTJAC  "DiOCAIl)  IT)'A]I)]n7j'  A|l  ]*é,  éAbot),  '  n)AC  bo  iteAC- 
CA^ite  2loi)5U]i'  At)  Bbti05A  reA]*,'  A5A]-  cuj  ttjo  beAi)  y]iu]i 
yo|]ice  fío|i-íxi3TÍ}é]l,  A5A]*  cmle  c|xoit)-5|t^6  bo  S51AC 
BbiteAc  TT)]c  iDAccAoir),  ACÍV  Ai)t>  T*úb,  éAboi),  bo  6aIca|*a 
A  pbl^JU  j  •<^"5^r  ^*^  5*^1^^  0|tiT)fA  50  TT)6|t  T|*i  bo  be^c  A5 
ttjoIa6  lú]c  A5A]*  5Ai]'5c  A  lcAT)i)iv]T),  ■^'S^V  ^^  7~é]i)i;e,  A|x 
céAT)i)A;  A5Af  A  biibA]ic|*A,  50  b-fA5A]i>  ]:é]t}  A  cejle  cutt) 
]iACA,  ASAi*  Ptat)1)a  6i)t]oi)i)  uile ;  a3ai*  bo  5iteAn7Ai6  |'i|*e 
nje  ii-]n)e  X]V  j  '^'5^V  l^i^'J^Cf  a  5U|'  nyo  CA|tA|b  íoi;rT)u]t; 
í^or)5ii|*  AT)  BbttoJA,  b'A  éA5CAOiT)o  ]t]y,  5ujt  cu]|i  ]y  t)a 
liACCAibfi  rrje ;   50  b-cuj  ^oluA6tT)U]T)  jAOjce  biiA0]5eACCA''^ 

'  S?loT)5ur  At)  l)?)|tÓ5A,  sometimes  calletl  2lot)5ur  Ó5  n)AC  a^  tíA5&Ae  in 
our  MSS.  lie  was  tbe  most  renowned  druid  of  the  Tuatlia  Dedannu 
race.  His  residence,  or  ratlier  his  druidical  academy,  was  called  t)itÚ5 
orlioino  (the  Brugh  above  the  Boyne),  now  called  the  Temple  of  New 
Grange,  county  of  Meath.  The  wordceAf  (south),  is  added,  because  the 
position  of  the  speaker  relative  to  that  of  the  "  Brugh  os  Boinn,"  justi- 
fied it  in  some  measure.  Aongus  had  Bruglis  in  several  parts  of  Ireland. 
Tor  notices  of  him,  see  "  Cót\ui5eAcc  t>l)iATtti)ut3A  -\  3l;T^ivii)tje,"  &c.,  &c. 

2  Saoc  h|toióeAccA.  (Druidical  wind).  The  wind  was  one  of  the 
deities  of  the  pagan  Irish. 

"  FUAJtl)  l)A  TJACCe  |aUA|íití  T)OJ|i, 

j:UA]I1J  A  clOirCAV  Cn&At)  ]r  CftUAS  ; 

5Aec  A  TnjolcAf  blAr  t)A  c-cui|t, 
2heAtAr  VPATtA,  Ai)  5Aor  tuiaíS  !'* 

SoAt)  tT'Ar). 


145 

drive  it  through  the  giant  and  kill  him  in  my  arms,  but  I  pro-     C  •  1  'b.  Kv<^ 
tected  him  from  their  attacks.     Soon  after  this  the  main  body 
of  the  Fenians  arrived  ;  they  enquired  what  was  the  cause  of 
the  delay,  that  the  giant  had  not  yet  been  slain.     '  That  is 
bad  counsel/  said  the  giant,  '  for  a  better  man  than  I  am 
would  be  slain  in  my  mc'     We  bound  the  giant  strongly  on 
that  occasion  ;  and  soon  after  Bran  Beag  O'Buadhchan  came  to 
invite  me  to  a  feast,  and  all  the  Fenians  of  Eire,  who  had 
been  present,  accompanied  him  to  his  house.     The  banquet- 
ing hall  had  been  prepared  for  our  reception  at  that  time,  and 
the  giant  was  dragged  into  the  middle  of  the  house,  and  was 
there  placed  in  the  sight  of  all  present.     They  asked  him  who     ^  | 
he  was.     '  E.oc  son  of  Diocan  is  my  name,'  replied  he,  '  that        i?^.  -   í;/^? 
is,  I  am  son  to  the  Legislator  of  Aengus  of  the  Bnigh  in  the  ^ 

south.  My  wife  poured  a  current  of  surprising  affection  and 
a  torrent  of  deep  love  upon  Sgiath  Breac,  son  of  Dathcaoin 
yonder,  who  is  your  foster  son,  0  Fionn ;  it  hurt  my  feelings 
severely  to  hear  her  boast  of  the  swiftness  and  bravery  of  her 
lover  in  particular,  and  of  the  Fenians  in  general,  and  I  de- 
clared that  I  would  challenge  him  and  all  the  Fenians  of  Eire, 
to  run  a  race  with  me  ;  but  she  sneered  at  me.  I  then  went 
to  my  beloved  friend,  Aengus  of  the  Brugh,  to  bemoan  my 
fate ;  and  he  metamorphosed  me  thus,  and  bestowed  on  me 
the  swiftness  of  a  druidical  wind,  as  you  have  seen.     This  is 

The  murmuring  of  the  Tied  Wind  from  the  east, 

Is  heard  in  its  course  by  the  strong  as  well  as  the  weak ; 

A  wind  that  blasts  the  bottom  of  the  trees, 

And  withers  men,  is  that  Bed  Wind  ! 

Old  Poem. 

Hence  we  see  that  there  was  a  supernatural  agency  attributed  to  the 
Eed  Wind  from  the  east  by  the  Irish  ;  in  fact  the  wind  being  one  of  the 
pagan  deities,  it  never  lost  any  of  its  baneful  influences  in  the  popular 
superstitions  of  the  Celtic  race,  and  charm-mongers  attributed  much 
evil  influence  to  its  effects,  and  were  wont  to  conjure  it  very  menacingly 
in  their  spells. 


116 

fÚ5ArT)j  n7A|%  &o  coijvXjiCAbAifti*!  ;  A5<xf  Af  |<^b  j-At)  rtjo 
fSéAÍA  6ib/  A|i  At)  c-ACAC,  '  A5Af  U]  beA5  Ójb  Ajt  in)|tí5- 
eAn)u]]t  bo  6íc  A5Af  bo  6oca|i  0|irp.'  ^A|t  |*]y  bo  léjseAÓ 
At)  c-ACAC  Aji  |*iúbAl  r)AC  A|i  b-peA]*  bú]\)i)  cív'|i  5AbA6  ]tir; 
5u|t  Ab  iiAió  ]*it;  Acív  Ar)  ]*eAi)-pocAl  '  n)A|i  |m5A6  Koc  50 
ceAc'pblUu/  5ii]i  Ab  é  f  p;  piiAfsUo  bo  ce^fce,  a  C\)OX)'A]r)," 
Ajt  "Piout). 

"Be]|l    buAÓ    AJAI*    beAt)T)ACC,"    A|1  Cot)^r),    "l|*TT>Óft  At) 

c-ú|t5ív|ibÚ5A6  ti)eAt)rt)Ar)r)  A5Af  ai5ioi)ca  a  be|c  A5  é]^- 
biocc  |t]oc ;  A5Af  AbA]|i  T^iort)  Atjon*  CjteAb  ]Ab  t)a  t)eice  if 

10t)5AT)CAl6e  f  A1)  b-'pe]?)!)  ?" 

"  21    béAjtA    fiTtiDtje   At)    r5^1^    V]V   ^^oz■,"    A]i    pioi)i). 
*'  O-5IAC   bó5A|i  ACÍV   fAT)   b-'péií)r),    a5A|*   v]   6eA|iftt)A   a 

b-'p'lAt)t)Al5eACC  jtlAti)  IaO]   1)<V  bUA]t)    T)AC    bjAÓ  t)0  TpeAbAlfl 

A]5e.     2lciv  ioT)5t)A  e]le  A5U]t)r),  éAÓor),  beAt)  acív  A5Att)fA 

le  fCACC  tt)-bllA5At)1)A,    A^A]*  b]   fi    beÓ    fAlJ    lil    A5Af    TtiApb 

fAr)  óióce;'  A5A]*  t)í  b-íopor^  liorrjfA  beAt)  ejle  ^jív  í-  2lc^ 
10t)3i)<v    e]le    At)t),    éAÓot),     bu^rje    ivi|ti5ce    bjof    5AC  |te 

TT)-bl]A^A11)  piltjtlOtJt)  AJA]*   buit)iot)t) ;    A5A]*  beA|tCA|l  clAt)t) 

bo  At)  bl]A5Ap)  bjof  ]:i|t|t]Oi)i);  A5A|-  bejiijo  pelt)  clA^t)  A^ 
bliA5A]T)  A   bjof  iot)A   Tt)i)AO/.       2lc^  loi)5i)A  e^le  a5U|1)i), 

éAÓOI),      flcA5    ACÍV     A5Att)fA,     Í^AÓOt),     floAS    "pblACllA    TÍ)]C 

C|t)Oti)éuii)i);  A5Af  i)í  6é]i)  uiicó|b  ]  i)-bi<vi5A  ]tAt)i)A;  A5A|* 

t)]  CT5  beó  Aot)  t)eAC  bV  b-ceAt)5rt)AÓ  ]  i)-b|A]5  a  })-ú|ilAt)i)." 

"Be||t  buAÓ  A5Af  beAi)t)<\cc  a   mj  }-éit)t)e,"  a|i  Coi)C\t), 

" -]]"      buAÓAC     rt)eAbA]|t-béAlAC    bíl)t)-bft|AC[tAC     CAT)Af     cu, 

A5A|*   AbAifi    IjOrt)    Ai)oif    cfieAb  f  A   t)-<\bAncA|i    *  ojóeAcc 

T-blt»»)  50  CeAC  CbllAl)I)A  ?'    " 

"  21  béAjtA  A  fr|[t]I)l)C  fit)    fl]OC,    A    Cboi)í\II),"    Ajl  )-I0I)1). 


>  l)eó  'fAtj  lSk  A5ur  njAiib  'f^P  oj6ce,  i.e.  dead  at  niyht  and  alive  in  the 
morning.  This  is  a  niytli,  and  lias  some  meaning  wliich  we  cannot 
now  fatliora.  In  the  Irisli  Ncnnius,  publislied  by  tlic  Arcliasological 
Society  (p.  20G),  we  find  the  following,  which  may  be  analogous  :— "  rnf 
lj-]i)5At)CA  U  CUiAio  ttjic  No|r.    f cfi  cct)  ceijb  vIM'  r^cr  iij-bl|AÓAi).    Itjre 


U7 

my  history  for  you  ;   and  you  ought  to  be  well  satisfied  with    J.^  J , 

all  the  hurt  and  injury  you  have  inflicted  upon  me  already.'    ^. 

The  giant  was  thereupon  set  at  libeity,  and  we  could  not  learn    ^^    '    ^' 

■where  he  betook  himself.    The  proverb,  '  As  Roc  came  to  the       hvcc^  -^^1 

house  of  Fionn,'  has  originated  from  that  circumstance ;  and 

so  that  is  the  answer  to  your  question,  0  Conan,"  said  Fionn. 

"  Win  victory  and  blessings,"  said  Conan,  "and,  as  it  con- 
tributes much  to  my  satisfaction  and  amusement  to  listen  to 
you,  pray  inform  me  now  what  are  the  greatest  wonders  found 
among  the  Fenians," 

•^I  will  give  you  a  true  account  of  that,"  replied  Fionn. 
"  There  is  a  deaf  man  among  the  Fenians ;  and  there  never 
was  a  lay  or  poem  composed  on  Fenian  subjects  which  he  has 
not  stored  up  in  his  memory.  There  is  another  wonder  found 
among  us,  that  is,  a  woman,  who  has  been  my  wife  during 
the  last  seven  years,  and  who  is  alive  by  day  and  dead  by 
night,  yet  there  is  no  woman  I  love  so  well  as  her.  There  is 
another  strange  wonder,  namely,  a  certain  man  who  is  each 
alternate  year  a  male  and  female  :  children  are  born  to  him 
while  a  male,  and  he  himself  bears  children  while  a  female. 
We  have  another  wonder,  that  is,  the  spear  of  Fiachra  son  of 
Criomthann,  which  is  in  my  possession,  its  point  inflicts  no 
injury,  yet  no  person  escapes  alive  against  whom  it  is  cast 
haftwise." 

"  Win  victory  and  blessings,  O  Fenian  king,"  said  Conan,    pi        i  (>— ^ 
"  it  is  with  clear  memory  and  sweet  words  you  relate  these    ^^         ^ 
things.     Tell  me  now  the  meaning  of  the  by-word,  '  the  hos- 
pitality of  Fionn  in  the  house  of  Cuanna.'  " 

"  I  will  tell  you  tlie  truth  concerning  that,  0  Conan,"  said 


bucuc  A  A]T)nj,  .1.  2I)AelcAn)A)t).  (Three  wonders  at  Clonmacnois.  A  man 
without  a  head  during  the  space  of  seven  years.  Inte  Bucuc  was  his 
name,  i.e.  Maltamain.  We  liave  our  stories  about  CoUvij  5AI)  ceAtjt), 
and  more  than  this,  it  has  come  down  to  our  own  time. 


C'^ 

Cir 

C  1^ 

Cy 

148 

"  0]\']v,  CAO|lce,  2t)AC  LÚ3A16,  ^D|<\ftTT)U|b  0'^Du|boe, 
A5A|*  rpife  ;  aoi}  bo  lAec]b  óú]i)t)  A|t  rbullAC  CbA]fii)i)  pe^fi- 
5A]ll,  3<VTjtib  Ó  l.uin)r)eAC  An;AC  ;  a^a^  Aji  5-có]5  5-coii), 
éAÓoi;),  BftAo,  S5eólAii}5,  SeA]t  í)ubj  Luajc  Luaca]|i, 
A5AÍ*  2li)-uAiU ;  ijjoft  CjAt)  bú|i;)t)  50  b-|:ACAn7A]|l  acac  AC- 
3A|tb  ív|ib-ri)óít  ctt5Air)i),  A5AÍ*  SAb^l  jAjafiATTjo  ^te  t)A  a]]* 
■i^lS^j  ^5^r  ")"i^  ^5  rSfi^^^cowó  A  i?-51aic  r)A  SAible  ;*  ASAf 
ir)5ioo  05  AOt)rÚ5A6  ^oi^a  61A15  A5  ]*5uAbA  m)  ac^is  jtoiro- 
pe.  'lieAC  uAitjr)  b'A  i)-A5AllTt)A  ]*úb'  A|t  njjfe,  slu^inof 
í)lA|ttt7U]b  0'<t)uiboe  iO!)A  Tj-bjAis,  ^5^r  ^l^t^  ^l'í'?  opfiA. 
6J1T^51"7n  1<>>T^    ri'Ji  ^5<^r  ^^^   cftiu|i  e]le  b]    ah?   ^ocAitt   a 

1)-blA13  í)b|A|tn)AbA  A5A|*  Ap  ACA]5,  A5AÍ*  ]lU5An)Al|t  A1|t 
<DblA|tTT)U|b,    AJAj*     T)]0]t  C1T)I)   |*11)1)   A]|l    Al)    ACAC    1)C\  A^t  AT) 

]T)5Íor);  ó]|t  bo  ^eA|iAÓ  ceó  bojlbce  bitA0i5eAccA^  ^ibiji  ]t)i) 
A5A|*  ]Ab;  30  i)^ft  b-feAf  bú]X)r)  civ  cot)ai|i  iooa]i  s^b  TiAb; 
A5Af  péACAit)  bV  b-cu5A|*  ]*eACAn)  (]a|i  t;-51<m)a6  bo't)  ceo) 
bo  coT)A]tc  ceAC  cotju^U  cir)p-eAbc|iorr)  of  ^ttjjoU  at?  ívca 
AT17  fojAf ;  bo  cuA6n7A]]t  at)i)  f  aij  ceAc,    A^Af  bo  b]  p Aicce 

1  y,  ij-5U\ic  ijA  SAjblc.  A  curious  idea — fancy  a  giant,  having  a  great 
iron  lamp-post  tier!  to  his  back,  and  instead  of  a  lamp  a  grunting  hog 
placed  therein  ;  while  a  spriglitly  young  woman  was  pushing  him  on  be- 
fore her  with  all  her  might ;  this  is  certninly  a  ludicrous  representation 
of  sloth  and  energy.  The  pig,  to  be  sure,  is  a  popular  emblem  of  sloth  ; 
"  as  large  as  a  pig,"  is  a  common  phrase.  The  hoar  forms  a  prominent 
feature  in  the  Hindoo  mythology. 

2  Ceo  boilbtre  b|toióe*\ccA.  The  dark  mysterious  miU  of  Jruidism. — The 
druids  were  believed  to  have  the  power  to  conjure  into  existence  mists 
and  fogs.  I'robably  I  cannot  speak  better  on  this  matter  tlian  by  quo- 
ting the  following  from  an  old  Irisli  poem,  now  in  my  possession  ; — 

•'  t)u  sub  Ai)  ceo  lib  cAbAó  ouii)!), 
2lt)  ftiib-ceo  &o(lb  fí5ft  t)A  t)  bt^iiAé — 
ru5  ceo  rn)ii|c  njATi  FAllAirjb  búitjt), 
Re'ti  cAtn)5A]|i  ^fee^^  ]f  bcAfic  b'Ajt  fUiAs. 

Riib  CAiceti  bn*?,  0Í  t^ulJiitt  rii), 
1l*  lonjbA  Iacc  ber  Aji  U\Ti ; 
Oifi  cAjbiieAo  óAtt)  CO  c)5  ri')'), 
No  bcupAi*  C0I3  60  A|t  c-oU^ti." 


149 

Fiomi.  ''Oisin,  Caoilte,  Mac  Lughaidli,  DiurmuidO'Duibhiie, 
and  I  myself  happened  one  day,  above  all  other  days,  to  be 
on  the  summit  of  Cairn  Feargall :  we  were  accompanied  by 
our  five  liounds,  namely,  Bran,  Sceoluing,  Sear  Dubh,  Luath 
Luachar,  and  Anuaill.  We  had  not  been  long  there  when  we 
perceived  a  rough,  tall,  huge  giant  approaching  us.  He  car- 
ried an  iron  fork  upon  his  back,  and  a  grunting  hog  was  placed 
between  the  prongs  of  the  fork ;  a  young  girl  of  mature  age 
followed  and  forced  the  giant  on  his  way  before  her.  Let  some 
one  go  forward,  and  accost  those  (people),  said  I.  Diarmuid 
O'Duibhne  followed,  but  did  not  overtake  them.  The  other 
three  and  I  started  up,  and  followed  Diarmuid  and  the  giant. 
"We  overtook  Diarmuid,  but  did  not  come  up  with  the  giant 
or  the  girl ;  for  a  dark,  gloomy,  druidical  mist  showered  down 
between  us  and  them,  so  that  we  could  not  discern  what  road 
they  took.  When  the  mist  cleared  away,  we  looked  around  us, 
and  discovered  a  light-roofed  comfortable-looking  house,  at  the 
edge  of  the  ford,  near  at  hajid.     We  proceeded  to  the  house, 


Dark  w.is  that  mist  that  enveloped  us, 

The  black  mythic  mist  of  the  druids ; 

It  bore  a  black  withering  cloud  like  a  mantle  over  us, 

Which  portended  treachery  to  our  hosts. 

Caicer,  the  druid,  said — we  cannot  avoid  it — 
Many  a  champion  shall  be  laid  on  the  plain  ; 
For  it  has  been  foretold  to  me — 
That  many  a  sword  shall  be  laid  on  the  plain. 

It  is  said  that  the  Cailleach  Biorar  can  call  into  existence  a  druidical 
mist  that  is  fatal  to  mortals.  But  it  was  a  druidical  mist  that  gave 
Fionn  the  opportunity  of  foretelling  the  fate  of  Ireland. 

"  Ctteb  &o'i)  tjeuU  &o|tcA  a  cua]Í:, 
tJo  v)\xc  e^te  tte  b-étj  u^iti  ?" 

Tell  us  the  meaning  of  this  dark  cloud  from  the  north, 
AVhich  has  enveloped  Eire  in  an  instant  ? 

Mac  Cumhaill'i  Propliscy. 


150 
ttOTbv\it)t;  A5Ar  &;\  c]ob|i<\i&  ii]\ite,    éAÓot),   ciobjiuib   h\oh 

AJAi*  CAf5A]l  AC-5A|tb  lAflOUjOe  A]]l  A  bftUAC  ;   AJAf  CAfCAHl 

úrT)A  A]íi  bituAC  Ai)  ciobjiAib  e]le;  A5Ar  A|'  é  bo  b]  a  ]*ci5 

Ajl    A    3-CIOOI),    O5IAOC    ^ÍO{t-AO}*bA    ^]Or)])-l]^t  A5    leAC-Uft- 

j-Aiw  AT)  bo|tii]|-  b'Aji  U]rb   6eiT;   ^3^r  I^^Sio')  Ó5-;\lu|t)i) 

^OTJA  |*Ul6e  10IJA  pOCAjfi;    A5Af    AC  AC    njófl    A]1)rbÍT)    AC-5A|lb 

A]t  b|tuAC  ceitje  A5  bftuCAO  n}\x]ce ;  A5Af  7*50105  &or)i)-liAC 
bo'o  le^^c  e]le  bo'ij  ze]t)e  A5A|*  biv  fu-il  béA5  ^otja  ceAi;ij, 
A5Af  t)S\  n^AC  in^iteAfivit)  béA5  At)  5AC  fujl  b^ob;  a5A|-  bo 
b]  |te]ce  A  fci5  A5A|-  bol5ivt)  scaI  Ai5e  A5Ar  ceAi^t;  cjoii- 
6ub  A]]i,  A5Af  biv  AbAfic  6úb-50ftn}  Ai5ej  A5Af  ceicjte  co|*a 
uA]cr)e  f  AO] ;  A5Af  bo  b]  cAiUeAC  a  tMAficAjt  ai}  q5e  A5Af 
]Oj)A|t  05A|t-5lA|-  u)itjpe;  asa^  if]  ^lA^b  bo  buióeAi)  fAi; 
ceAC  Acc  I*]!) ;  A5A]*  pi^ilce  jiorijA^ur)  A5  Ó5IAOC  i)a  Icac- 
u|i|*At),  A5A]-  bo  fu]5eA6rt}Ai|i  a  5-cúi5]Oit  |:o]i  ufil^ji  17A 
bftui5t)e  A5Af  iv]t  5-CÚI5  5-coit)  trxNiUe  |i]w.     tDoAucAii 

ÚrbAl-^0fA15  b'pblOIJI)  lt}]C  CiirbAiU  (A|1  05IAOC  1)A  IcAC- 
U|tf  AT))  A5Af  b'A  rbu^UCIll/   'f^t  I1OII7/  Ajl  At)  C-ACAC,  'tjeAC 

b']A|x|iA]6  Accupjt^íóe  A5Af  5AI)  A  beA5  r)ix  a  TÍ)ó[t  bo  6éA- 
i)Arb  Ai]t  be/  5i6eA6  b'éi|i5]6  ^oija  fe^y^nj  A5Af  bo  ^|i) 
úrbAl-^ofAi5   bú«t)i).       Cjob  cftívcc  z!s]i)]6  pcA  o]tmfA  aji 

At)  lacAlll  ^t),  A5A|*  t)i01t  A1|15  t)eAC  ]-]^)  0)irt)]-A  ACC  CAO]lce, 

A5A|*  bo  b]  b'A  éA5CA0ine  50  rt)6)t.  '  C|teAb  At)  éA5CA0it)e 
bo  5t)i  (ajx  feA|i  t)A  leAc-u|t|*Ai))   a  CbAO]lce,  acc   611150 

ATDAC  A5Af  CAbAlJl    bCOC    leAC    Af    bO    IIO5A    ClobftUjb  'f    A1) 

b-pAicce  cutt)  pbir)i)?'  íío  |tit)  CAOjlce  ArbUó  f]t),  A5Af 
CU5  livt)  i)A  b-eAf5|tA|6e  ÚTt)A  le^f  A5AI*  CU5  6AtT)i'A  i,  a5A|* 
b'ibiO|*  beoc  Aifce,  A5Af  bo  bj  bUf  Tt)eAlA  uipcc  At)  ^eAÓ 
bjoi*  bV  b-ól;  A5A]*  bÍAf  At)  bon)blAif  At)  CAt)  bo  cu]]tcAi* 
bAtT)  ceAt)t)  Í,  5uit  611x5)6  5Aece  ciióó  A5Af  Ait5eAi)t)A  At) 
bivif  bArt),  A5A1*  50  b-civi)5AbAit  AicíbÍ5o  t)iti)c  cu5Art) ; 
A5AI*  v]  itjófi  5uit  n)ioí)i)-Aici)Í5eA6  Tt)6,  A5Af  bA  ttjó  50 
rt)ófi  éA5CA0it)e  CbAOilcc  fiv  tí)eii-o  bcic  rn^]i  l*lt)  t)i\  ir^n)' 
ÍOCA   itoirbe   x]\);  50   i)-bubAiitc   Ó5IA0C  t)A  leAc-uiti*At)  le 


151 

before  which  sprea'i  a  lawn  upon  which  were  two  fountains; 
at  the  brink  of  one  fountain  lay  a  rude  iron  vessel,  and  a  vessel 
of  bronze  at  the  brink  of  the  other.  Those  we  met  in  the 
house  were,  an  aged  hoary-headed  man  standing  by  the  door 
jamb  to  the  right  hand,  and  a  beautiful  maid  sitting  before 
him;  a  rough,  rude,  huge  giant  before  the  fire,  busily  cooking 
a  hog ;  and  an  old  man  at  the  other  side  of  the  fire,  having  an 
iron-grey  head  of  hair,  and  twelve  eyes  in  his  head,  while  the 
twelve  sons  (germs)  of  discord  beamed  in  each  eye  :  there  was 
also  in  the  house  a  ram  with  a  white  belly,  a  jet-black  head, 
dark-green  horns,  and  green  feet ;  and  there  was  in  the  end 
of  the  house  a  hag  covered  with  a  dark  ash-coloured  garment : 
there  were  no  persons  in  the  house  except  these.  The  man  at 
the  door-post  welcomed  us ;  and  we  five,  having  our  five 
hounds  with  us,  sat  on  the  floor  of  the  hruighean.  '  Let  sub- 
missive homage  be  done  to  Eionn  Mac  Cumhaill,  and  his 
people,'  said  the  man  at  the  door-post.  '  My  case  is  that  of 
a  man  begging  a  request,  but  obtaining  neither  the  smaller  nor 
the  greater  part  of  it,'  said  the  giant ;  nevertheless  he  rose  up 
and  did  respectful  homage  to  us.  After  a  while,  I  became 
suddenly  thirsty,  and  no  person  present  perceived  it  but  Ca- 
oilte,  who  began  to  complain  bitterly  on  that  account.  'You 
have  no  cause  to  complain,  Caoilte,'  said  the  man  of  the  door- 
post, '  but  only  to  step  outside  and  fetch  a  drink  for  Eionn, 
from  whichever  of  the  fountains  you  please.'  Caoilte  did  so, 
and  fetched  the  bronze  vessel  brimful  to  me,  and  gave  me  to 
drink ;  I  took  a  drink  from  it,  and  the  water  tasted  like  honey, 
while  I  was  drinking,  but  bitter  as  gall  when  I  put  the  vessel 
from  my  lips ;  so  that  darting  pains  and  symptoms  of  death 
seized  me,  and  agonising  pangs  from  the  poisonous  draught.  I 
could  be  but  with  difiiculty  recognised  ;  and  the  lamentation  of 
Caoilte,  on  account  of  my  being  in  that  condition,  was  greater 
than  that  he  had  before  given  vent  to  on  account  of  my  thirst. 
The  man  of  the  door-post  desired  Caoilte  to  go  out  and  bring 


152 

CAOjlce  bul  Art)<vc  ASAp  beoc  bo't)  c]ob|iA]b  e)le  bo  ta- 
bA]|ic  cu5ArT)|*A  :  50  t)-beA|t]ti)A  CAO]lce  aitjIa  f|t},  30  b-cu5 
Uu  i)<^  b-eArsiiAjOe  iAiii)ui6e  cu5Arr);  A5A|- jte|j  ^ca6  a 
b-ólA  ÓOwtl?  V]  b-pUAJlAf  bo  CeAT)i;CA  CACA  t)iv  cori)lAi;i)  It) An) 

beA5-pilAi)5  bA  trjó  l]Oít)  ijív  ^|i)  le  tja  fejfibe;  A5Af  n)A]i 
bo  cuiiteAf  bort)'  ceAijrj  i,  civit)]6  njo  6a]c  A5Af  njo  6cAlb 
if^]])  0]in),  AjAf   bA   lu|r)i)eAC  luAc-jaiitcAC  le  nj'  njuji^cut 

")t*  ^t)i)  ri'i  b'piApjtATÓ  t-'eAft  Ai)  ci^e,  '  aji  bjtiiice  au  ib«c 
bo  bj  ^At)  5-co]|ie  ?'  '  Jy  bftmce/  a]i  aij  c-acac,  '  A3AV 
CAb|tA]6  A  ti0]t;i;  bArbfA  ?'  '  CjieAb  At?  |t0]UT)  cu3A]|*  u]]ice  ?' 
A|i  ^eA|i   Arj  cÍ5e.     ' 'Cu3A|*   ccACftAibAÓ   6e]|ve   h'y\)]o\^\} 

A3Af  bV  CO]0/    A]t  AtJC-ACAC,    '  A3A|*  AU  CeAC)tArbA6  6e|(te 

ejle  bo  ceAC|iAft  Ó3IA0C  T-blT:)^^  A3Af  atj  ceAcp.ArbA6  i^r)') 
bAit)  pelt;);  ■^5A|*  a  bito]rn  a3A]*  a  civ|v|i  bo't)  1*50105  úb  Aft 
A1J  b-CAob  caU  tio't)  ce]pe,  A5Af  bo't)  cA]lli5  ub  ffAfi  i|*  aij 
3-CÚ1I ;  A5A]*  A  cÚ|i-ii|'3aI  bu]Cfe  a3A|*  bo't;  lysjoi)  05  ub  a 
c-pocAi|i.'  'jf*  b|tiACA]t  ÓArbr^/  <^li  t^eAjt  AD  rÍ5e,  '  3u|i 
roAic  bo  iioiwif  ]/  '  )y  b[i]ACA|v  ÓAtbfA,  A|i  Ai)  |ie]ce, 
'3U|t  Ab  olc  AT)  ]io]\)\)  OAtbrA  ],  6)11  bo  6eA|trf)AbA  rpf^  péio 
u]n)pe,  A5A|*  A5ÍV  |iiv]6  |*]t),  CU5  ^íóe  aji  aij  5-ceAr)tArbAii; 
bo  b]  A|i  béAÍAib  Tt)o  ceACfiA]ji  Ó5lv\oc  péiu  A5AI"  |iu3  Ion* 
ir  ^^  5-ciM^  b  ^5<^V  T^^  5^^  ^5^  b-lceA6.  )y  Arjij  |*it)  bo 
3AbAbA|i  At)  ccAC|iA[i  A  T)-&ii)peAcr  bo  le]c  a  3-clo]ó|Tbe 

A5    lí^T)-buAlA    At)    ]te]ÍG,    5]6eA6    1)Í0|l    CUIjt     j-jt)    A^t,    acc 

Atbuil  bo  ]-5]T)r)peAbA0]|*  bo  cloc  t)ó  bo  CA|t]tii]5 ;  5UI1 
b'é|5]oi)  bó]b  fu|6e  pijA  t)-]0i)Ab  }:é]t)  a   ]tif.      '«Daji   Tt)0 

CÚ|]*/  A^V  At)  C-65-lAOC  ]OT)A  |tAbAbA|t    At)  bív  fíijl  béA5,    '  IT 

rt)Ai]a5  b'Aji  Ab  ciqbeACCA  At)  ceACftA|i  Ó3IA0C  bo  l&i5ior 
b'AOt)  CAejtA  Arbiv]!)  A  5-ciqb  b']ce  b'A  i)-A]tb6eo]i)  ]ot)A 
b-f*iA3t)Ai]-e/  A3A|-  A|t  1*11)  b'éi|t5]&  cutt)   at)   itc]ce,  A3Af 

3AbA|*     A]l    A    COfAlb    6;    30    b-CU5  U|tCA|l    Alt)ti)il)    AC-5A|lb 

cA|t  bofiui"  AitjAC  bo't)  ]xe\te,  50  b-ci\]tlA  ceA|tc  a  OjionjA  ]to 
U|v,  A5Af  1)]  frACArT)Aiit  Ó  fir;  AtT)Ac  Ó.     )y  SAllijb  t)A  6|A15 


153 

rue  a  drink  from  the  other  fountniii.  Caoilte  obeyed,  and 
brought  iiic  the  iron  vessel  brimful.  I  never  underwent  so 
much  hardship  in  battle  or  conflict  as  I  then  suffered,  while 
drinking,  in  consequence  of  the  bitterness  of  the  draught ;  but 
as  soon  as  I  put  the  vessel  from  my  lips,  I  recovered  my  own 
colour  and  appearance,  and  that  gave  joy  and  happiness  to 
my  people." 

"The  man  of  the  house  then  asked  if  the  hog  which  was  in 
the  boiler  was  yet  cooked.  '  It  is  cooked,'  replied  the  giant, 
'  and  allow  me  to  divide  it.'  '  How  will  you  divide  it  ?'  said 
the  man  of  the  house.  '  I  will  give  one  hind  quarter  to  Tionn 
and  his  hounds  ;  the  other  hhid  quarter  to  Fionn's  four  men  ; 
the  fore  jiart  tu  myself ;  the  chine  and  rump  to  the  old  man, 
who  sits  at  the  opposite  side  of  the  fire,  and  to  the  hag  in 
yonder  corner ;  and  the  giblets  to  you,  and  the  young  woman 
who  is  opposite  to  you.'  '  I  pledge  my  word,'  said  tlie  man 
of  the  house,  '  you  have  divided  it  very  fairly.'  '  I  pledge 
my  word,'  exclaimed  the  ram,  '  that  the  division  is  very  unfair, 
so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  for  I  have  been  altogether  forgotten.' 
And  so  saying,  l\c  immediately  snatched  the  quarter  that  lay 
before  my  four  men,  and  carried  it  away  into  a  corner,  where 
he  began  to  devour  it.  The  four  men  instantly  attacked  the 
ram  all  at  once  with  their  swords,  but,  though  they  laid  on 
violently,  it  did  not  affect  him  in  the  least,  and  the  blows  fell 
away  as  from  a  stone  or  rock,  so  that  they  were  forced  to  re- 
sume their  seats.  '  Upon  my  veracity,  he  is  doomed  for  evil 
who  owns  as  companions  such  four  fellows  as  you  are,  who 
tamely  suffer  one  single  sheep  to  carry  away  your  food,  and 
devour  it  before  your  faces,'  exclaimed  the  man  with  the  twelve 
eyes ;  and  at  the  same  time  going  up  to  the  ram,  he  caught 
him  by  the  feet,  and  gave  him  a  violent  pitch  out  of  the  door, 
so  that  he  fell  on  his  back  on  the  ground ;  and  from  that  time 
we  saw  him  no  more.  Soon  after  this  the  hag  started  up, 
and  having  thrown  her  ashy-grey  coverlet  over  my  four  men, 
11 


154 

ri'),  5»?^  ÍMT^Sl^  ^'í  CAiUeAc^  a5A|'  5U|t  ca|c  a  l;-]ot)Afi 
o^Ajt-jUf  A|i  n)o  ceAC|tA|t  ójUoc,  50  Tj-beAjtitTjA  ceic|te 
T-eAijóiiiíó  cpíotjuA  cíun-írle  Ójob !  Sljt  a  i:'^]cy]v  T]V  fe^ri)- 
T-A  bo  5Ab  UATÍ7AT)  ASAf  li^-eAsU  n}é,  ASAf  ATj  CAT)  bo 
n70tAi5  Ó5IAOC  t)A  leAC-u|i|-AT)  f  iT),  A  búbAnic  \]on)  bul  ioija 
^A|t|tAb  Y^]r)  A^A^  Tt)o  ceAt)t>  bo  cu^i  pijA  ucc  A5A1*  cobU. 
<t)o  |tit;oA|- :  A5A|-  b'&]]t3i6  aij  ca]IIoac  a^ai*  bo  bA^i)  a 
b-lopAT^  bArr)  ceAC|tAfx  Ó5IAOC,  A5Af  ]A]i  i)-bú]feACc  OArbfA 

VUA|tAf     ]OUA    |lACCA]b    V^]T)    ^Ab  ;      ^SAf     bA     luAC5Í\]|tCAC 

IjorDi'A  f|i;.     '21  yh]vv,'  A]t   ojIaoc  t)a  leAC-up|*AT^,  'ad 

]Ot)5t)A  IcACfA  fUj^e  A3Af  Óltbll5A6  A1)  CÍ5C  ]*o  ?'  *Do 
6cA|lbAf  1)AC  pACA  IllATT)    101)5I)A    bA    TtJO    llOtt)    yo]])    '\)'^\    C. 

'  2t)iv]|*eA6/  iT)T)eof  Ab  ]:6]t)  <v  5-c]aU  ]*úb  bujc/  a|i  ai;  C-Ó5- 

IaOC.       *  21t)  C-ACAC    Ub    bo    COt)A]lCAlf    A|t    b-CÚ|f,    A5Af    AJ; 

it)uc  Aj  ]*3]téACA6  A  i)-51a]c  i;a  5A]blc,  a  \b  yi\h  caU  ^, 
A5A|- Ai}  leirSí^  -[X  A]t)]nj  bo;  a5A|-  a  y]  ]-o  Art?  f-ocA]|ti-e 
AT)  iT)5Íoi;  bo  bj  b'A  fjuAbA,  &AÓ01),  ai)  rbcAt)Dtr>i)A;  AjAf  f5u- 
AbA  Au  TboAr)Drt)i)A  Ai)  le]|*3e  lé;  óijt  cé]b  ai)  rboADDrnrjA  le 
p|tAp  i)A  Till  n)A]t  tA  b-ce^O  AT)  CO  I*  le  bliA5A]T;.  21 1)  ]-50- 
IÓ52  ub  caU  t;a  |*iil  TjiATbÓA,  At)  vaojaI  CIaIIu]5CCA]1  Af, 
A5Af  If  c]tO[|'o  T)iv,  jAC  i;eAC  é;  A5aí*  b'A  6eA]ibA6  ]'|i)  bo 
cu]]t  |*é  AT)  ]tO|ce  A]i  T)eiTT)r)i'  21t)  |xo]co  iib  bo  coi)A|ica]|% 
C|Ot)i)CA  Ai)  bujOe  cuT3ceA]t  \^]X-  2li)  caiUcac  ub  caU,  ai) 
C]\\\)C:  ]  X'0\\),  A5A|*  c\\\o\)  A  b-éAbAC  bo  CeAC|tA|l  Ó5IAOC; 
AJAf  AI)  bik.  C]0b)lAlb  A|*  Ajl  lb]!*  AT)  biv  6)3,   AT)  bfl6A3  A3Af 

At)   ^i]t]i)i)e^    ciii3ceAii   Ai'bA ;  ói|i    \x  ^v\\\\'   le   bii]i)e   ai) 

'  CaiUcac,  ic.  Old  age  is  aptly  represented  as  a  withered  hag  clad  in 
a  motley  garment.  The  Hindoos  consider  that  Call,  caiUcac  ?  was  Fe- 
male Time;  she  is  represented  holding  a  scimitar  in  her  hand Asiat. 

Trans,  vol.  III.  p.  40. 

*  S50IÓ5,  in  the  present  common  acceptation  of  the  word,  means  fur- 
mer  ;  but  it  also  means  old  man.  An  old  man  having  twelve  glancing 
vigilant  eyes  is  a  beautiful  picture  of  the  world. 

'  Silt)  l)l)HéA5  A5ur  AI)  X\)]^\r)\)C:.  Falsehood  and  Truth  are  beautifully  re- 
presented as  draughts  quaffed  by  the  thirsty  from  two  fountains :  the 


155 

metaniorpliosed  them  into  four  widiercd  drooping-headed  old 
men  !  AVlien  I  saw  that  I  was  seized  with  great  fear  and 
alarm  ;  and  when  the  man  of  the  door-post  perceived  this,  he 
desired  me  to  come  over  to  him,  place  my  head  on  his  bosom, 
and  sleep.  I  did  so ;  and  the  hag  got  up,  and  took  her  co- 
verlet oif  my  four  men ;  and,  when  I  awoke,  1  found  them 
restored  to  their  own  shape,  and  that  was  a  great  happiness  to 
me.'  '  0  Tionn,'  asked  the  man  of  the  door-post,  '  do  you 
feel  surprised  at  the  appearance  and  arrangements  of  this 
house  ?'  I  assured  him  that  I  never  saw  anything  which  sur- 
prised me  more.  '  Well  then  I  will  explain  the  meaning  of 
all  these  things  to  you,'  said  the  man.  *  The  giant  carrying 
the  grunting  hog  between  the  prongs  of  the  iron  fork,  whom 
you  first  saw,  is  he  who  is  yonder,  and  his  name  is  sloth  :  she 
who  is  close  to  me,  is  the  young  woman  who  had  been  forcing 
him  along,  that  is  energy;  and  energy  compels  sloth  for- 
ward with  her  ;  for  energy  moves  in  the  twinkling  of  the  eye, 
a  greater  distance  than  the  foot  can  travel  in  a  year.  The  old 
man  of  the  bright  eyes  yonder,  signifies  the  avoiíld  ;  and  he 
is  more  poweri'ul  than  any  one,  which  has  been  proved  by  his 
rendering  the  ram  powerless.  That  ram,  which  you  saw,  sig- 
nifies the  crimes  of  the  man.  That  hag  there  beyond  is 
withering  old  agk,  and  her  clothing  has  withered  your  four 
men  :  the  two  wells,  from  which  you  drank  the  two  draughts, 
mean  falsehood  and  truth  ;  for  while  telling  a  lie  one  finds 

water  of  Truth  was  bitter  and  disagreeable  to  tlie  taste  but  wholesome  to 
the  tliirsty,  wliile  that  of  Falsehood  was  sweet,  but  afterwards  caused 
aching  pain  and  torments.  Great  powers  were  attributed  by  tlie  ancients 
to  their  sacred  fountains.  We  read  in  Stanihurst  of  a  well  at  Old  Leigh- 
lin,  by  which  people  used  to  swear,  when  drinking  of  the  water  ;  but 
whoever  had  tlie  temerity  to  swear  falsely,  the  water  would  spout  forth 
from  him  as  if  his  entrails  had  been  bored  in  order  to  give  it  a  passage. 
In  the  le.xbAti  btteAcijAch  (Irish  Version  of  Nennius,  edited  by  the  Rev. 
Dr.  Todd  for  the  Archseologieal  Society,  p.  210),  we  read —  "  Oa  copA^t 
rileb  It)  SajticenAib  o  i\.\[X3  ?T)aca  r^m  ;  iVAttb  xo  ceco^i  It)  CÍ  blAirer  10  6aU 


15G 

b|tt»A3  A5<x  bt^ATjAib,  AjAf  ]f  j-eAiib  f.-iv  6eoi5  ]  ;  aja^*  Cii- 
ATJUA  A  b-)l)r)1t*ClUll  XT)' i^]V]rr)X]  V^ID,  AjAr  t)i  At)1)  ^o  3r)ivc- 
A]5]rt}  beic  ;  ASAf  cujvVf  5ltí\í5  eASibAii-eAC  6u]Cfe  a  "pb]')!), 
A|i  TÍjéAb  b-eA^ijA  A5Af  t-6]\i6eA]iCA-\y,  jiiji  Ab  u^me  ]-]i) 
bo  ciq^ieAf  ]]•  i?a  ftACCAib  ^Ab  A|i  bo  c]oj)T),  loijuy  50 
b-pA]Ci.*iiji)  cu  ;  A5Ar  bA  '  0]6eAcc  pblW  50  ceAc  CbuAi)- 
i;a'  A]pirr)  ad  f7:ó]l|-|  50  bei|te  av  boti^A]!;;  A5Af  rAbA]fi 
bo  rbuiDC]|i  A  c-frocAi|i  ■\:eAyzA,  A5A|*  cobliqj  a  5-cú]5|Ofi 
50  rnAib]ooi).'  ^ijAf  bo  TtTDeAiDAijt  ahjIa  r]n,  a5A|-  aji 
n)ú|*5lA6  6ú]t)r)  a]*  ]  ix]c  a  jtAbAtT^Ant,  a|i  ii^uUac  C\)A]]x^)\) 

'peA]t5All,  AJAf  il|l  5-C0]T}  A^Aj*  iV]l  1)-A]]irr)  ]01)<X|l  b-f0CA|Il. 

3iili  Ab  é  1*11)  f'uAfslAÓ  bo  ce]yze  a  CboiAii),"  a]v  }-ioi)i;, 
"  A5Af  C|teAb  bo  be]]t  ojtc  beic  tdajx  ]*o  5A1)  coblA  bo  66a- 
i)ATb;  ó]]t  It*  t^AbA  le  yoA]i  cocn^Antce  rpi)i\  3AI)  bill  bo 
lu]5e  le]  ?" 

"  1&73  Af  A  pbli?!?/'  A|i  Coi;i\t),  "  0]|t  Ti*  SAijiib  Ipji;  be]c 
A5  CAopbneAf  coib]iiv6  le  cójle  r^iiy  b-z]ii\]'rA,  A3Af  AbAifi 
l]on)  At)0]|*  ca  T;-beA|U)A6  au  'Do|tb  pblAi;!;'  A]i  b-cúj-  ] 
T)-B]|i|r)r),   A51H*  civ  Ijoi)  bo  b]  A^iv  b^A^Aib  ?" 

"21  bóAHfA  A  vilMWe  ]'ii;  iijoc/'  aji  'piow-  "  T^ni 
TT)]c   CeA|tnjAbA    2t)|l-beoil    rijjc  Ar)   Ííoa^aó-,    bo  ]t]u   a 


t)Ai.  t^iA  rill"en  umoftito  ro  cri)  vo^i  tlO  coputi  t)-Aili  ActiAi5  cot)  b.\i&i  ]i) 
CI  i)A  t)-6ecA,  coijAb  Ajia  t)Ac  lAn)Ui&  SAeije  a  c>\&aU  acc  n)it)er  !:c5n)At5 
ctioicb."  The  following  is  the  translation  given  in  tiiat  publication. — 
"  There  are  two  wells  in  Airthera.  to  the  eastward  of  Armagha.  lie 
who  tastes  of  one  of  them  is  ininiediately  dead.  If  the  other  well  is 
gazed  upon  three  times,  it  immediately  swells  and  drowns  the  person 
who  so  gazes.  Hence  it  is  people  dare  not  touch  them,  except  wretches 
(i.e.  the  desperate)  alone."  In  a  note.  Airtliera  is  said  to  be  Oiriar  in 
the  county  of  Armagh,  and  the  wonder  is  tlien  differently  dcscribeil. 
"  21cAic  bA  c)bfiAi&  ^  t).OitinceATtA]b  .1.  o  ^l|ib  ?t)AcA  foil^i  ]V  cj  ibcAf  Mfrj 
It)  bAtiA  cjbitAb  b|6  cnu,  l  bib  rAOsUcb,  ]t)  q  jbeAi*  Aito|le,  t  i)j  re^r 
i)ecl)CA|i  recAce]le,  coi)aó  An»e  ri')  VA  Iatijati  U]Tce  peccAm  b|b  b'ol." 
Thus  translated  : — "  There  are  two  wells  in  Oirthear,  viz.  east  of  Ard- 
niacha ;  the  person  that  drinks  the  water  of  one  of  the  wells  will  be  poor, 
and  the  person  that  ilrinks  the  water  of  the  other  will  be  rich  ;  and  no  one 


li 


d^lf 


it  sweet,  but  it  becomes  bitter  at  the  last.     Cuanna  from  In-  _ 

iiistuil  is  my  own  name;  I  do  not  reside  here,  but  having  / 

conceived  a  wonderful  love  for  you,  0  Pionn,  on  account  of 
your  superiority  in  wisdom  and  general  celebrity,  1  therefore 
put  those  things  into  the  way  before  you,  in  order  that  I  might 
see  you.  And  this  story  shall  be  called,  to  the  end  of  the 
world,  the  Hospitality  of  Cuanna's  House  to  Eionn.  Let  you 
and  your  men  come  together,  and  do  ye  five  sleep  until  morn- 
ing.' Accordingly  we  did  so,  and,  when  we  awoke  in  the 
morning,  we  found  ourselves  on  the  summit  of  Cairn  Fearg- 
aill,  with  our  hounds  and  arras  by  us.  So  there  is  the  answer 
to  your  question,  0  Conan,"  said  Fionn ;  "  and  what  is  the 
reason  you  remain  as  you  are,  and  go  not  to  sleep  T' 

"  Cease,  0  Fionn,"  replied  Conan,  "  for  it  seems  but  a  short      /"I    3  ^    • 
time  as  yet  that  we  have  been  engaged  in  pleasant  conversa-  '    / 

tion;  so  now  tell  me,  where  the  Dord  Fian  was  first  made  in  Í 

Erin,  and  how  many  men  were  em-ployed  in  making  it."  j  Q/Vv, 

"  I  will  tell  you  the  truth  about  that  matter,"  said  Fionn. 
"  Eathoir,  Ceathoir,  and  Teathoir,  the  three  sons  of  Cearraad 

knows  one  of  them  from  the  other,  and  therefore  no  person  dare  drink 
the  water  of  either  of  them."  It  would  be  an  almost  endless  task  to  enter 
upon  the  supernatural  properties  attributed  to  lakes,  rivers,  and  wells 
by  the  pagans  of  Ireland,  as  well  as  by  those  of  almost  all  countries  of 
the  -world.  However,  to  shew  that  a  belief,  analogous  to  that  of  the 
ancient  Irish,  in  the  supernatural  properties  of  water,  still  exists  in  the 
east,  it  is  sufficient  to  mention  the  three  lakes  in  the  countries  adjacent 
to  the  Nile,  whose  names  are  derived  from  ásru,  tears,  according  to  the 
Puranas.  The  name  of  the  first  is  Socásru,  or  Tears  of  Sorrow  ;  the  se- 
cond is  called  Hershásru,  or  Tears  of  Joy ,  the  third,  Anandásru,  or 
Tears  of  inward  pleasurable  sensation.  There  are  many  strange  legends 
recorded  in  the  Puranas  concerning  these  lakes. — Vide  Asiat.  Trans. 
vol.  III.  p.  341,     Vide  note  infra. 

1  Oottb  piAi)  appears  to  have  been  a  wind  instrument  of  music  ;  it  is 
celebrated  in  all  Fenian  poems,  and  supernatural  powers  are  often  attri- 
buted to  its  notes. 

»  Ct^i  njic  CeATirt)A6A  S^ilbeojl  irijc  m)  CiA5bAe.  Tuatha  Dedanan  chiefs, 
and,  probably,  celebrated  musicians.     Dagdae,  in  our  text  corruptly 


15S 

o-6ifi]i),'  A|t  b-cúf  í  ;  6acoi]i,  CeAco||i,  a5A|-  "CeAcoi]!, 
A  T)-Ai)n>oi)i)A ;  ASAf  i)AeT)ri)A|i  bo  b]  bV  reitJim  ;  ^5^^  "pÁCA 
iD^c  Coijívip^  bo  Ttioe  'jja  ^1^15  rp^S  A^Af  tjAetjrbA^t  bo 
CAtjAÓ  le]X  é,  t>ó  50  Tta]ui6  yé  ti^ife ;  AjAf  CAejAb  caijat 
llort^fA  é,  3iiit  Ab  &  no  puA|'5lA6  bo  ce]|-ce;  a  Chov'^]r)" 
Afl  P10UI). 

"  Beiji  bu<\6  A5A|*  beAT)i;Acc,"  A|i  Coi}(vt),  "  AjAf  ]m]V 
bAii?    Auoir    CAijitieAcc    BbliAjr)    asaj*   S5eolAp)5^    lt]Oc ; 

tieA5Aó,  was  supposed  to  liave  been  the  great  deity  of  the  Tuatha  De- 
danans,  or  the  sun.  All  the  druids  of  this  people  were  called  ClAtjo 
t>A5t>Ae,  or  Deaghadh,  and  an  individual  in  the  text  is  called  ttjac  ai) 
C>A5SAC,  (with  the  article  At))  son  of  the  Dagdae,  a  mode  of  expression 
in  Irish  calculated  to  show  that  this  being  was  not  of  the  human  race. 
Among  the  Hindoos,  the  Vlllth  of  Cartica,  or  Aswina,  was  dedicated  to, 
or  called  Dayhda,  in  a  note ;  the  days  called  iJaghda,  or  burnt,  are  va- 
riable, and  depend  on  some  inauspicious  conjunction.  Vide  Asiat.  Re- 
search, vol.  11  r.  p.  263. 

1  t)o  \\]t)r)  A  i)-Cni1')').  Mode  in  Ireland.  From  this  mode  of  express- 
ion it  appears  that  the  f  on»  ^\.sx)  was  not  first  invented  in  Ireland. 

*  Faca  Coi)Ajt),  a  Fenian  chieftain. 

3  bfiAtj  A5Ar  S5eolA]t)5.  Names  of  Fionn's  favourite  hounds.  5500- 
lAiiJS  is  sometimes  written  ceólbjijj),  sweet-voice,  of  which  the  name  in 
common  use  is  undoubtedly  a  corruption.  On  the  metamorpliosis  of  hu- 
man beings  into  wolves,  among  the  wonders  of  Ireland  (see  leAbAti 
l)t^eAci)Ac,  edited  by  the  Kev.  Dr.  Todd,  Introduction,  pp.  204,  205).  And 
in  a  note,  another  version  is  given  as  follows : — "  i^lcAic  ATio)le  bAipe  a 
t)-e)t]i)b  .1.  x]\  lA|5i)e  i^AclAib  A  i)-0rn*^i5e,  C)A5Ai&  a  ii|cl)CA)b  itjAC  C]Tte, 
]!)  TAt)  (r  Ajl  Ico,  1  ii)A|ibAi&  HA  })-ii)&ilo  ^;o  ber  >)a  x\)-\c  ritte,  -\  ]:A5bAit>  a 

COllpU  VOIU,  lU  CAT)   C]A5A]&   Ar    VA   COIjriAChcAfb  AJCljIJlS]»    &|A    njUJtJCCttAlb 

CAij  A  cojtpu  i>o  cuii)fcu5Ab,  AH  t>]\  cun)rcAitice|t  tjí  perpAb  coAchc  CATtlt 
Af  i)A  cottpAib  ;  -|  &|A  cttA\cl)ci)Ai5ceti  An}\X]c\)  be]b  t)a  c|techcA  fji)  r^A  co);\,- 
pA(b  AI)^r'^^  c|5Aib  -|  bi5  jtj  ^eoil  bCATi5  CAicAjb  An)U|cb  aija  trjAcUib." 
i.e.  "  TJiere  are  certain  people  in  Eri,  viz.  tlie  race  of  Laighne  Faelaidh, 
in  Ossory ;  they  pass  into  the  forms  of  wolves  whenever  tliey  please, 
and  kill  cattle  according  to  the  custom  of  wolves,  and  tiiey  quit  their 
own  bodies ;  when  they  go  forth  in  the  wolf-forins,  they  charge  their 
friends  not  to  remove  their  bodies ;  for  if  they  are  moved,  they  will  not 
be  able  to  come  again  into  their  bodies ;  and  if  they  are  wounded  while 
abroad,  the  same  wounds  will  be  on  their  bodies  in  their  houses  ;  and  the 
raw  flesh,  devoured  while  abroad,  will  be  in  their  teeth."    The  account 


159 


r\ 


Milbheoil,  sou  of  Deagliadh,  were  those  who  first  made  it  m 
Erin  ;  and  nine  men  were  accustomed  to  play  upon  it.  Fatha 
son  of  Conan  made  it  after  that,  and  nine  men  were  wont  to 
perform  upon  it,  until  it  reached  iny  time,  and  I  employ  fifty 
men  to  play  it :  so  this  is  the  solution  of  your  question,  O 
Conan,"  said  Fionn. 

"  Win  victory  and  blessings,"  said  Conan,  "  and  inform  me         C^ 
what  kindred  have  Bran  and  Sceoluing  to  you,  where  it  was 

of  two  wolves,  a  man  and  wife,  given  by  Giraldus  Cambrensis,  alluded 
to  in  the  Introduction,  p.  46,  is  that  they  were  transformed  into  wolves 
every  seventh  year,  in  consequence  of  a  curse  imposed  upon  them  by 
St.  Naal,  or  Natalis,  Abbot  of  Kilmanagh  in  the  county  of  Kilkenny. 
This  Saint  flourished  in  the  sixth  century,  and  the  cause  of  the  curse, 
no  doubt,  if  it  was  ever  pronounced  against  them,  was  their  obstinacy 
in  adhering  to  the  wicked  abominations  of  paganism.  Those  human 
wolves  had  been  banished  to  Meath,  where  they  met  a  priest  in  the  wood 
where  they  concealed  tliemselves.  The  incident  is  said  to  have  taken 
place  a  short  time  before  the  arrival  of  Cambrensis  in  Ireland.  Vide 
leAbAn  bneAcrjAcb,  (Ed.  by  Eev.  Dr.  Todd,  p.  204,  note.)  The  fol- 
lowing is  a  portion  of  the  wolves'  address  to  the  priest: — "  De  quodam 
hominum  genere  sumus  Ossyriensium  ;  unde  quolibyt  septennio  per  im- 
precationem  sancti  cujusdam  Natalis,  scilicet  Abbatis,  duo,  videlicet, 
rnas  et  foeraina,  tarn  a  formis,  quam  a  finibus  exulare  coguntur.  For- 
mam  enim  humanam  prorsus  exuentes  induunt  lupinam.  Completo  vero 
scptennii  spatio,  si  forte  supcrstites  fuerint,  aliis  duobus  ipsorum  loco 
simili  conditione  subrogatis,  ad  pristinam  redeunt,  tam  patriam,  quam 
naturam." — Top.  Dist.  2,  c.  19.  The  notion  of  human  beings  having 
been  changed  into  wolves  is  not  peculiar  to  Ireland.  Lycaon  was  changed 
into  a  wolf  by  Jupiter,  because  he  served  up  the  body  of  a  hostage  as 
food  for  the  deity. 

"  Territus  ille  fugit,  nactusque  silentia  ruris, 
Exululat,  frustraque  loqui  conatnr  ;  ab  ipso 
Colligit  OS  rabiem,  solitae  cupidine  caedis 
Yertitur  in  pecudes;  et  nunc  quoque  sanguine  gaudet,' 
Ovid  Metam.  Fab.  VII.  v,  18. 
Peti-saca  of  the  Hindoo  mythology  had  the  power  of  separating  his 
soul  from  his  body.     S.  Natalis  lived  in  the  VI,  as  the  learned  Editor 
of  the  leAbAti  l)rieA-t)AC  asserts,  and  the  wolves  in  the  XII  century, 
and  the  Saint  could  scarcely  hare  inflicted  his  curse  upon  individuals 


160 

C|or)t)Af  fniATUN^r  fAb,  ^o^^I*  ^h^  i-**^  ^1^1  "'l^  n)C\CA]i  bo  bj  Aco 
A  b-'piAr)tnil^cACC  ?" 

")T)i)eó|*Ab  y]r)  bu|c,"  a]x  "pioon.  "  "peACc  r)Aoi)  bV 
b-r;\iui6  TT)o  rb^CAi]t  A|i  cuA^^tb  cujArnTA,  6AÓop,  ^u|i- 
|tA]t7i)  2t)m)5-cAorb'  1t)3Íoi)  T>\)A]6-^  n)ic  Mua5ac,  asaj*  a 
be]|tbfiu|i  TtjAiUe  |té,  éAÓoij,  Cu|t|iA]W  1t)5Íor)  TbA^Os ; 
A5Af  bo  b]  bii  ]tÍ5  "pe^UTje  UIaó  att)  ^ocAiitfe;  jollAtjb 
6accac,  A5A]*  'peA]i5ur  y]ox)r)--n)ó]x,  bC\  rbAC  Ca(]*  Cua^I- 
5T)e  ;  A5Af  bo  b]  jolUi^r)  6accac  A5  TU]|t5e  |te  'CuititATtjr), 
A^A]'  bo  5fi<^6Ai5  50  TT7Ó|i  Í  ',  A5Af  cu^Af  A  6o  \  A|t  coibce, 

éAÓOT),    Aft  A  piVJAfl  |*U\1J  bArt)  AIJ  CAT)  bO  fA|tpU]tJT)  fj^    '^'S^X 

fUM:)A  ir)A]ce  i;a  'pi'iijue  le]]*  f^r);  A5AI*  if  AÓbA|i  ^'a 
Tj-beAjt|tA  ÓArt)  I'll),  óAÓot),  \eM')X}'■\^)  njijiv  j'íse^  bo  b]  A5 
jollArjt;,  6A6ot;,  Ucc-beAlb,  11)5101)  \í\t^  Coilefi)  y^e\6\\xx)e ; 
A5A1*  bob'  eA5Al  liorr)i*A  í  bo  rx)]\\e  "CbuititAjiirje,  juit  Ab  Ait 
riD  CU3A1-  Af  11)0  U\iti)  i:óii)  A  Uviri)  OirÍD  Í,  ^S^X  CU5  Oii'ÍD 
A  l^iri)  CI)AO]lcc  Í,  A^Ai*  CU5  CAOilce  A  IsViii)  rbic  LÚ5A16 

Í,    AJAf  CU5  TI)AC  ÍÚ5AI6  A  liVlIt)  í)blAltlT>llbA  Uí  <DblMbl)e  Í, 

C115  í)iAitn)uib  A  \'A]xr)  '^\)o\\\  n)]C  2t)óiiii)e  í,  C115  ooU  a 

li\lri)    LÚ5AIÓ    LíVjÍ)A    Tt)AC    B05AII)    T^Afllj  ],    AJAf    CU5    Lú- 

3A18  A  li^iii)  joIIai)1)  6accai5  !•  '  2li*  ATt)lA  beiii]n)  ai)  li)5Íor) 

buic'  Aft  LuJAl^,  éAÓOI),  AT)  CA1)  H*  TDlCjb  le  7^101)1)  A  b'lAlt- 
JIAIÓ,    CUfA    b^A  CAbAlltC    bO   fliVt)  Tt)All   ]X   bUAl  ;    A5A1*    itiij 

jollAi)i)  leii*  b'A  C15  iréiD  \  cAit  en*  i)a  5-coii)5íoll  x\^;  ^S^X 
bo  bj  Ai5e  50  b-ciiiilA  CAob-citon)  coititAC  uai6  ;  AjAf  bo 
CUAJÓ  Ai)  \eAX)X)'AX)  i'i5o  1*11)  JoUaii)!)  bo  ■\0Y)\)xu\6e  "Cbuft- 
■pAirji)  A  mocc  n)A|lii'C,  A5ai*  a  búbAHtc.  'bo  cunt  piorjtj 


who  lived  at  least  five  centuries  after  his  time.  Therefore  the  whole  is 
nothing  else  but  a  story  founded  on  the  lingering  belief  cherished  by- 
certain  individuals  in  the  pagan  doctrine  of  the  transmigration  of  the 
Boul  into  otlier  bodies.  If  there  be  any  ground  for  the  belief  held  by 
some  old  folks,  that  there  is,  or  was,  not  long  since,  in  Tipperary,  a 
family  who  wore  wolves'  tails,  we  may  conclude  that  the  belief  in  tlie 
incidents  given  above,  is  by  no  means  extinct,  and  that  the  descendants 


161 

I 


3'ou  found  them,  and  who  were  the  three  half  brothers  by  the     (__   jLJP 


■'S^" 


/^' 


mother's  side,  that  they  had  in  the  ¥enian  rank 

"I  will  tell  you  about  that,"  said  Fionn.  '•' Muirrionn 
Mongciiemh,  daughter  of  Tadhg  son  of  Nuaghat,  ray  mother, 
once  paid  me  a  visit,  on  which  occasion  she  was  accompanied 
by  her  sister  Tuirreann,  daughter  of  Tadhg :  there  were  at  ^-^vvw^ 
that  same  time  with  me  two  princes,  chiefs  of  the  Tenians  of 
Ulster,  loUann  Eachtach  and  Feargus  Fionn-mdr,  sons  of  Cas 
Cuailgne.  loUann  Eachtach  was  paying  his  addresses  to  Tuir- 
reann, and  was  deeply  in  love  with  her,  and  I  gave  her  to  him 
in  marriage  upon  certain  conditions,  namely,  that  she  should 
be  restored  safe  to  me,  whenever  I  demanded  her,  and  that 
the  Fenian  chiefs  should  become  sureties  for  her  safe  return. 
The  reason  I  demanded  that  was,  lollann  was  attended  by  a 
familiar  female  spirit  named  Uchtdealbh  (Fair-bosom)  daugh- 
ter of  the  king  of  Coillen  Feidhlim,  and  being  apprehensive 
she  might  destroy  Tuirreann,  I  therefore  gave  her  from  my 
hand  into  that  of  Oisin  ;  Oisin  gave  her  into  the  hand  of  Ca- 
oilte  ;  Caoilte  gave  her  into  the  hand  of  Mac  Luigheach ;  Mac 
Luigheach  gave  her  into  the  hand  of  Diarmuid  O'Duibhne ; 
Diarmuid  gave  her  into  the  hand  of  Goll  son  of  Moirne  ;  Goll 
gave  her  into  the  hand  of  Lughadli  Lamlui,  son  of  Eoghau 
Taileach ;  and  Lughaidh  gave  her  into  the  hand  of  lollann 
Eachtach,  saying  : —  '  I  deliver  to  you  this  young  woman  upon 
the  condition  that  when  Fionn  thinks  proper  to  demand  her, 
you  shall  restore  her  safe,  as  in  duty  bound.'  After  that  mu- 
tual engagement,  lollann  conducted  her  to  his  own  house,  and 
she  remained  with  him  until  she  became  pregnant.  That  fa- 
miliar spirit  of  lollann  paid  Tuirreann  a  visit,  under  a  dis- 

of  Faelaidli  of  Ossory  still  retain  their  wolfish  predilections  and  possibly 
have  tails. 

1  2i)utiriAit)5  2t}ui)3c>xcrij,    See  Introduction  to  Battle  of  Gahhra,  p.  1 1. 

«  A  curious  marriage  ceremony  of  the  pagan  Irish. 

3  lc^i)Aij  SÍ5e.     Vide  Intruduclion. 


1C2 

boACA  A5Af  |-U\]r)ce  cii3Ab  a  ^ío5aii),'  A]t  7^,  A5A]*  a  bi'i- 
bA]jxc  ItíAC  'oii^eAC  n)A]t  bo  6óAí)Art),  A5AI*  CAfi  l]orTj|-A 
^n^AC  30  i)Ab)tAb  beA5iVT;  pocAÍ  pliioc;  ó|ft  acív  be]f:]|i  0|trn-^ 

^13  ■*'>  I'^SP'?    ATDAC    lé,    A5Af    AT)    CAT)    CÍV1T)]6    CAnjAll    ó'l) 

b-ceAC ;  bo  éA|t|tAii)5  at)  €>acIac  ^leAf*3  bo]lbce  b|iA0]3- 
CACCA  Ó  T)A  bjtAc,  A3A]'  CU3  bu]lle  b']p  30  r)-beA|t|tt)A  1*013 
TT^ilcoT)  bob'  ^ille  bo' I)  b]toi)5  bAoijTjA  bo'ij  it)5Ít),  A3A]*  JIU3 
lé  Í  3oceAC  )^beA]t3ufA  ')^\)]\j\)-\é]t,  éAÓoo,  yi]-^  21ca  CIjac 
2t)eA3ftAiÓe  3'  A5Af  if  at^Ia  bo  b]  'peA|t3iif  :  bob'  é  aot) 
bu]i)e  bA  T)eArbcoT)A]|te  f  at)  bOTT)AT)  &,  A3Af  v]  liin)t<\]6e  cu 
bo  be]c  ]  T)-Aoi)  C13  leif  j  3]8eA6,  a  biibAnic  at)  BacIac,^ 
'bo  cii])i  y^]ot)t)  beACA  A3AI*  ]-lix|i)ce  cu3Ab,  a  'pbeA|t3ui|*/ 

A|V  XÍ,    '  A3Af  A  bÚbA]]lC  leAC    AT)    C-]*0]3  TT)]IC0T)  fO  bo  leAf- 

U5AÓ  30  TDA^c  fiv  T)A  co]T)i)e  p&]T),  A3A]*  ACÍX.  cuA]i)i)e  ]vze, 
A3Af  leAf  A]3ceA|i  30  tt)aic  lib]-]  j,  A3Af  t)^  cAbAm  feAl5 

b]   Ó  TTjeAbOCUf  A  b|lÚ3A,  A3Af  b'A  b-CU3A]|l  T)]  bu|6]0C  "Plot)!) 

b^oc/  '  J0T)3i)A  l]Orr)fA  ]-|i)/  A)t  peAjtsuf,  'o]|iAciv  a 
Pl*^r  ■<'^5  Pl'^y'^)  i?<^*^  b-piql  f*Ai)  borbAT)  bu]i)e  -]]"  i)CAiT)coi)A|fxe 
't;ív  n)i|*e,  5i6eAÓ  i)]  6]iiIcóca6  n)ó  T^oi)!)  ]:'a'\)  3-céAb  cú  j-o 
bo  cu]|t  i*é  CU3AIT).'  " 

^IDaIa  'pb€^A|t3ii]|*,  ]f   3<^I1M'^   5^   i)-beACAi6  le  i)a  co]1) 

b"-p]0|*  A  TDA]CI0fA,    A3A1*  bO  |l|1)    COf5A1|l  TÍ)ó|l  X^]^'5^  ■<^'>  ^*'^ 

Wh  A3AI*  3AC  U\  e^le  30  cjoi)!)  n)]ofA  :  ói|i  i)]  ^-aca  aoi) 
bcACAÓAC  aUca  b'A  fuilib  1)^  cii)T)eA6  Ai)  CÚ  Ajft ;  3U|t  n)&A- 

bU]3  A  blXÚ3  Al)  CAl)  f]l)  50  »)AC  CU3AÓ    ^jAÓAC    U)|ice    Ó    I'll) 


1  'Hz  CliAc  ^cAstiAióe.     The  ancient  name  of  Galway  harbour, 

2  CacUc,  signifies  a  courier ;  and  strangely  enougli,  tliose  couriers 
were,  many  of  them  at  least,  females,  as  in  the  present  case.  lcAbA|\- 
cAtt)  was  the  iiivorite  courier  of  Conehubar  Mac  Nessa,  king  of  Ulster, 
and  t)05rt^M)  was  the  courier  of  Cunihall,  This  jealous  Leannan  Siglie 
assumed  the  character  of  a  courier  in  order  to  deceive  her  intended  vic- 
tim. The  Leannan  Sighes  always  bestowed  their  affections  on  some  mortal 
object,  as  appears  from  tlie  account  of  them  in  our  MSS.  as  well  as  in 
popular  tradition.  There  is  a  curious  story  current  among  th.c  people 
concerning  the  love  which  Cliodhna,  tlie  fairy  princess,  bore  towards  a 


163 

guised  appearance,  and  said,  '  0  princess,  Fionu  wishes  you 
long  life  and  health,  and  desires  you  to  exercise  hospitality  on 
a  large  scale ;  come  out  with  me  until  I  speak  a  few  words 
with  you,  as  I  am  in  a  harry/  The  young  woman  accompa- 
nied her  out,  and  when  they  were  some  distance  from  the 
house,  she  took  her  dark  druidical  wand  from  under  her  gar- 
ment, and  having  struck  the  young  woman  with  it,  metamor- 
phosed her  into  a  greyhound,  the  handsomest  that  the  human 
eye  ever  beheld,  and  brought  her  along  with  her  to  the  house 
of  Feargus  Fionnliath,  king  of  Ath-cliath  Meaghraith.  Now, 
this  was  the  character  of  Fergus  :  he  was  the  most  unsociable 
individual  in  the  world,  and  he  would  not  permit  a  hound  to 
remain  in  the  same  house  along  with  him.  Nevertheless,  the 
courier  said  to  him,  '  Fioun  sends  to  greet  you,  wishing  you 
long  life  and  health,  0  Fergus,  and  requests  you  will  take  good 
care  of  this  hound  against  his  coming  here  ;  she  is  heavy  with 
young,  therefore  take  particular  care  of  her,  and  do  not  suffer 
her  to  hunt  (after  her  foetus  grows  heavier)  ;  if  you  do  other- 
wise Fionn  wall  not  thank  you.'  '  I  am  much  surprised  at  this 
order,'  replied  Fergus,  '  since  Fionn  well  knows  that  there  is 
not  in  the  world  a  more  unsociable  being  than  myself,  yet  1 
will  not  refuse  Fionn's  request  respecting  the  first  hound  he 
ever  sent  me/  " 

As  regards  Fergus :  he  soon  after  brought  out  his  hound 
to  the  chace  to  test  her  value  :  and  made  a  great  havoc  in  the 
hunt  that  day,  and  every  other  day,  during  a  month  ;  for  tlie 
hound  never  saw  a  wild  animal  that  she  would  not  run  down. 
At  the  expiration  of  that  time  she  grew  heavy  with  young,  so 


Muiister  chieftain  ;  she  is  said  to  have  assumed  the  appearance  of  Sighle 
ivi  ilhairanan,  a  swineherd's  daughter,  and  to  have  become  a  servant  in 
the  house  of  the  young  cliiefs  father,  in  which  situation  she  managed  by 
industry  and  good  conduct  to  rise  to  the  situation  of  a  hidy's  maid  in  the 
family,  and  at  last  to  win  the  aiTectious  of  the  object  of  her  love. 


be  y]r)  bo  coiMlb.  'Do  b]  beAu  'ph^A]i'^u]y  pó'o  Art)  |*ii)  a 
T)-A]rn|-]|i  A  b-10t)')bu5A6  :  5U|i  Ab  Aor)  oióce  ■ftu5  y]  cIai)u 
A^Af  |iii5  AT)  CÚ  ba  coileAi),  eAÓOT),  So6  A5A|*  "peAjtcu. 
2lcc  ceAr)ijA,  bA  5T)ívcac  le  fCACc  n)-hl]^^^vv^  ■\io]n)e  y]t), 
Aft  Tn-b|ieic  clAii)t)e  bo  tí)1)A0]  "pbeAjijufA,  T^ojrboit'  ^tojIac 
bo  ceAcc  AT)  0]6ce  céAbijA  A5Af  at)  leArjb  bo  bftejc  le]y. 
C^oÓ  c|iívcc,  cívjiIa  &]cleAT)T;^  A|t  "pblO'^U  <^^  3-c]ot)1)  bl^A- 
5AT)r)A.  AjAj*  bo  ]tii)i;eAbA|i  0156 acc  a  b-ci^  "pbeAit^ufA 

pblOtJ-lélc;    A5A|*    bo    f-AOftAbAft    'peA|t5ll|*    Ó't)    olc    I'll)    Al) 

<t)ivlA  "pblDt;,  lAji  5-clof  bo  i)Ac  ]tAib  y]ú]x  a  tbi^cAft  A5 
JoUat^t)  Baccac  :  ho  eA5A]jt  a  ]*Uvi}a  a|i  at)  b-'péiw  50 
|tíiit;i5  LújAiÓ  lívibA  ^ív  6eoi5  >  ^5*r  ^"5  I-Ú5A16  a  bftiACA]t 
50  b-c]ob|iA  ceAijT)  joIIa]T)t)  b'TI)ioT)T),  n)uí)A  b-f  ajaÓ  "Cuit- 
]tAii)i)  flíVT)  beo  le  cAbA]jtr  a  tj-^oc  a  flíVT)A  ^e]!):  jitji 
]A]t]t  joUaijt)  ci^]|tbe  ]te  i)-bul  b'iA]t]iAi6'Cbiijt|tA]i)t)e  ;  A5Af 
C115  A  b|tiACAii  mut)A  b-]:A5A]6  Í,  50  b-ciocpAÓ  |:&]i)  bo 
f-AOfiAO  0}])]cc  l,íÍ5Ai6,  AjAf  cii;^  Lú^Aié  AT)  cívjfibe  fp)  bo  : 

5U|l    5luAl|*    JoUaI)!)     AI)1)    I'll)    TTJAJl    A  ItA^b  A    leAÍ)I)ÍVT)  ]']Íe, 

éAÓOT),  Ucc-beAlb,  a  S]^  CoiIoaiu^  "pb^l^M^^^^  3"T^  T^'^li* 
A  co|*5  b|.     "  2l)ok]|*eA6,"  a|x  UccbeAlb,  "  b'A  b-cu5cA]*A 


'  Vof^tr)AXi,  signifies  a  giant  as  well  as  a  pirate,  probably  because  the 
Loelilonnncbs  or  romorians,  wlio  settled  on  tbe  coasts  and  islands  of  Ire- 
land, during  the  earliest  periods  of  the  colonisation  of  the  country  were 
giants  as  Avcll  as  pirates.  If  we  can  give  any  credit  to  ihe  assertions  of 
Procopius,  and  the  author  of  the  Crymugaa,  or  Antiqiiities  of  Iceland, 
those  Foniorians  were  descendants  of  the  gigantic  Canaanites  expelled 
by  Josue  from  their  country. 

2  CicleAOi).  The  Editor  has  not  met  any  notice  of  this  being  either 
in  MSS,  or  traditional  tales,  but  supposes  her  to  have  been  a  Leannan 
Sighe  that  attended  Fionn,  It  is,  however,  recorded  in  tradition  that 
she  was  the  enchanted  hound  tiiat  rescued  the  infant  from  the  grasp  of 
the  giant  by  gnawing  off  his  arm,  and  that  she  preserved  it  until  morn- 
ing.    When  Fcargus  and  his  people  found  the  chamber,  in  which  she 


U55 

that  she  was  afterwards  led  1o  the  chace  no  more;  and  Fear-  f  2_f) 
gus  was  filled  with  love  and  a  strong  passion  for  hounds  ever  "^  *^ 
after.  The  wife  of  Fergus  happened  to  be  confined  about  that 
time;  and  she  gave  birth  to  an  infant  the  same  night  that  the 
hound  whelped  two  puppies,  a  male  and  female.  It  so  hap- 
pened during  the  previous  seven  years,  that  whenever  Fergus's 
wife  was  confined,  a  Fomorach  used  to  come  that  same  night, 
and  carry  away  the  infant.  However,  Eithleann  met  Fionn  at 
the  end  of  a  year,  and  having  arranged  a  hospitable  meeting 
at  the  house  of  Feargus  FionnHath,  they  deHvered  Fergus 
from  the  plague  of  the  Fomorach. 

As  regards  Fionn ;  when  he  learned  that  his  mother's 
sister  wasnol  living  with  loUanu  Eachtach,  he  insisted  on  the 
fulfilment  of  the  pledge  by  which  the  Fenians  were  bound  to 
restore  her  safely ;  the  pledge  passed  (from  one  to  the  other) 
to  Lughaidh  Lamha  the  last.  Lughaidh  pledged  his  word  that 
he  would  bring  the  head  of  lollann  to  Fionn,  unless  he  (lol- 
lann)  would  deliver  to  him  Tuirreann  alive  and  safe,  that  he 
might  restore  her  to  redeem  his  own  pledge.  lollann  requested 
time  to  go  in  quest  of  Tuirreann,  having  pledged  liis  word 
that  if  he  was  unable  to  find  her,  he  would  surrender  himself, 
in  order  to  free  Lughaidh  from  his  obligation.  Lughaidh  grant- 
ed him  that  request ;  and  lollann  immediately  proceeded  to 
the  Sighe  of  Coillean  Feidhlira  where  Uchtdealbh,  his  Leannau 
Sighe,  then  was  :  he  told  her  the  purport  of  his  visit.     '  W  ell 

kennelled,  full  of  blood,  they  were  on  the  point  of  killing  her,  under 
the  supposition  that  she  had  murdered  the  child  ;  hut  they  fortunately 
discovered  their  mistake  in  time  to  prevent  so  ungrateful  an  act.  The 
same  authority  relates  that  the  hound  led  Feargus  and  his  people  to  the 
giant's  cave,  where  they  succeeded  in  killing  him,  and  also  recovered 
the  seven  children  that  had  been  previously  kidnapped  by  him.  The 
story  is  a  pretty  one,  but  too  long  for  insertion  here. 

»  SÍ5e  CbojleAji),  often  written  xize  (the  rÍ3e),  is  supposed  to  liave 
been  a  fairy  palace,  but  often  in  Irish  MSS,  it  signifies  a  druidical  aca- 
demy of  the  Tuatha  Dcdanans,  the  same  as  btui  and  h^\x\7^\x). 


106 

cu]]i  AjAf  |-lívn<v  ÓAtbrA  V^vrT)'  be]é  f^^n  TT)<vít  ct»]le  50  í^ónt- 
coAr)i)  so  beACA  A5A&,  bo  f-Aoiipuiw  ó't)  i:)-5ív6  x]V  cu." 
^115  )ollAt;i)  rP)  ^b  A5Ar  bo  C11A18  fiTi  50  C15  'pbe^Nlio"!*^ 
pbiw-l^jc,  A|i  c]o\)v  i)A   b-ir)5íu(^j   ^S'*']*  ^50  cu]]t  ioi)A 

-ft]occ  |:&1T)  Í,  SAiiijb  01)  b-c|5  ATDAc;  A5Ai*civn3A  le]]*  An 
ir)5iOT>  cu3ATD|*A,  A5A1*  bo  ^v^)]]'  UccbeAlb  A  be^c  co]t]tAC 
|toiTT)  be]c  iot;A  co]^)  b],  a5AJ'  50  |tu5  ba  óofleíti),  &a8oi) 
S06  AjA]*  "peAjicu ;  A5A]*  A  búbA]]tc  b'A  njo  ^to^A  Ipmf  a  a 
Tt)-bc|C  ^oi;a  ihbAOTPib  t)0  ^otjA  j-coijAib  50  Ti7-b]AbA0i]* 
ArrjlA.  21  búbA|trf  A,  "  bA  n)0  ÓArb  ^élt)  bo  beATtcA^óe  ]Ab 
50  njo  ]t05A  l\orn  A  n7-be]c  ^oija  j-coijA^b ;"  acc  céAOUA, 
b']Ajl|l  l-Ú5A]6  LíVTT)A  lllAÓACC  A  co^rbbeAccA  0|trr)f  A,  éAÓOI), 

■CujiltAiT)!}  bo  CAbA^jic  bo  ^é]T)  rt)A|i  iTjTjAO^,  'Cu5Af  ;*  AjAf  bo 
bi  Ai5e  50  |xu5  CTi]u]t  rpAC  rtjAice  60,  &a6ot),  SjjAc-BjteAC, 
2I0Ó5ÍVI}  Kua6,  a5A|*  CaoI  CjtóbA;  aja^  a^  ^Ab  y-]}^  ha  c|tí 

n)]C  TT)ÍVCA|l  ACÍV  A^  BftAT)  A5^]*  A5  Ssí^oIaII^J  A  b-p^AIJl^A]- 

jcAcc  :  5u|i  Ab  é  |*ir)^fteA5]XA  bo  ceA|*bA  8u]c,  a  Cboi)í\]u/' 

Alt  'PlOt)!?. 

"  Be||t  buAÓ  A^A]*  beAi)T)ACc/'  A|t  Coi;ívi),  "  a  |tÍ5  pc^iTjije 
If  TT)A]c  A1)  c-eóluf  cu3A]f  bú]t)r) ;  AjAf  idt)]]*  bAtt)  Ai;o]f, 
C|teAb  y:lxt  a|i  I^acaS  cú,  a5A|*  CjtoAb  yixt  a  b-ru5Ab  X\ible 
Aic]fe  bob'  5011]^;  asa^  rpívf  rnAjtb  a|v  bo  colApjt)  a3A|* 
^uA]|ie  Ai)rr)A  Aji  bo  leACAjt;  a^a]*  c^  ^rA^b  bo  c^jtlA  6iqc  a 
beic  ArbÍA  ?" 

"  í)o  béA]tpA  A  ^i|t]T)i)e  y]r)  Óiqc/'  A]t  'Fiotji).  "  2lot)  bo 
ÍAeqb  bV  fiAbAf  a  a  i)-2llrbuii)  leACAtj-Tbóíi  LA^seAT)!),  A5A]* 
Ti7Air]b  i;a  p&]i;i;e  mAille  |iiort7,  A5  ol  A5AI*  A3  AoibocAf ; 
i:;v]i)]8  biA]*  bAi)  bo  'OniAÍA  í)e  t)Ai)A]i)u  ^o  cAbAntc  córh- 

3Jtíx8  A  V-(>]VÍ:OACZ    bAH),    A3Af    ACÍ\|b    101)A    féAC|tACA    A3ÍV 


1  Cu5Af — bo  bj  AJ5e.  From  the  text  it  appears  that  the  pagan  Irish 
were  not  bound  as  man  and  wife  during  the  period  of  tlie  life  of  eitlier, 
by  tlieir  marriage  rites.  Tuirreann  was  given  in  marriage  to  Lugliaiilh 
Lamha,  after  siie  had  been  wife  of  lollann,  aud  was  his  wife  only  until 


107 

then,'  said   Uclitdealbli,   '  if  you   will  consent  to  give  me  a  ft    r 

pledge  and  bond  that  you  are  willing  to  have  me  as  your  spouse  ' 

to  the  termination  of  your  life,  I  will  free  you  from  your  dif- 
ficulty/ lollann  gave  what  she  required  :  and  she  went  to  the 
house  of  Feargus  Fionnliafh,  to  fetch  the  young  woman,  and 
restored  her  to  her  natural  shape,  at  a  short  distance  from  the 
house.  Uchtdealbh  brought  the  yonng  woman  to  me,  and 
informed  me  that  she  had  been  pregnant  before  her  metamor- 
phosis into  a  hound,  and  had  given  birth  to  two  puppies,  a 
male  and  female.  She  told  me  also  that  whichever  I  chose 
them  to  be,  either  human  beings  or  dogs,  they  should  accor- 
dingly be  such.  I  replied,  that  if  they  were  to  be  given  to 
me,  I  would  prefer  that  they  should  remain  hounds.  In  the 
meantime,  Lughaidh  Lamha  requested  that  I  should  reward 
him  for  his  guardianship  by  giving  him  Tuirreann  to  wife.  I 
gave  her ;  and  she  remained  with  him,  until  she  gave  birth  to 
three  sons,  namely,  Sgiath  Breac,  Aodhgan  Euadh,  and  Gael 
Crodha,  and  these  are  the  three  sons  born  of  the  same  mother 
who  gave  birth  to  Bran  and  Sceolaing.  Hence,  this  is  the 
solution  of  your  question,  0  Conan,"  said  Fionn. 

"  Win  victory  and  blessings,  0  Fenian  king,"  said  Conan,       ^ 
"  for  good  is  the  information  you  have  given  us.     Pray,  tell       \^  -^  / 
me  now  what  was  the  cause  of  your  becoming  grey — why  a 
wonderful  blemish  was  inflicted   on  your  countenance — the 
weakness  of  death  upon  your  frame — and  a  lifeless  chill  on 
your  skin,  and  how  long  you  continued  in  that  sfate  ?" 

"  I  will  tell  you  the  truth  about  that,"  said  Fionn,  "  One 
day,  as  I  chanced  to  be  engaged  in  carouse  and  pleasure  in 
the  great  extensive  Almhuin  of  Leinster,  and  the  nobles  of 
the  Fenians  with  me,  there  came  two  Tuatha  Dedanan  women 
to  offer  me  their  joint  love  :  they  were  sisters,  and  their  names 


she  had  given  birth  to  three  sons.     Numerous  instances  of  tliis  sort  of 
voluntary  divorce  are  found  in  our  ;\iSS. 


lOS 

C&lle,    ^A&Ot),    2t)]lÚAC]lA8    ATjAf    ^]p)0     A    T)-At)rnoni)A,     bC\ 

]t}3íoi)  CbwA]l5r)o ;  A5Af  cu5  2l]ji)e  féAftACAc  t^Ac  hiAó  a 
-peAii  f6]T)  liAC  50  bjiivc.  21|t  T)A  clof  I'll;  bo  ^JbllÚACttAÓ, 
bo  t]0Tt)yA]6  'CllACA  <De  <DAT)Alt)t)  AT)  AOT)  -jOtJAb  :    TJUft  beAÍ- 

bAbA]t  loc  bHAOijeAccA'  bo  le]c-cAO]b  ^-Ifeibe  CuiUit:)T) ; 
A5A]*  ^]|t  Ai)  borbAjT)  bo  jtACAÓ  yM)  loc  bA  l^AC  lAb;^  ■^3*1* 
ci\it)i6  A  ]t|Occ  e]l]ce  in7-lé]ée'  a]]i  ^aca  ija  b-2lltbuiUo  :  50 
b-cC\]ilA  ÓArbfA  bejc  An?  AOi)A|t  Aji  At?  b-^AjCce  at)  cai)  xV>'> 
5u|t  lé]5eAf  pcAb  Ai|t  njo  coijuib;  a5Aí*  tjac  5-ciiaIa  cú  i;í\ 
bujT^e  nje  acc  BitAr)  a^aj*  S5eolA]i)i)  Anjiv]i;,  50  b-civi^jA- 
bAfi  cii3An) ;  3U|t  léi3io]*  a  '^•cón)6'^]\  i)a  b-e]l]re  ^Ab,  A3A1* 
bo  leAi;A|*  Í  3Ai)i:i0f  bo  liicc  An  bA]le  ó\)  íx-]l  x]\)  30  |*l;Ab 
Cu|ll]or)  A  3-C]tioc  CuAil3i;o''  bA  cuA]&,  a  ij-UlcAjb;  A3A|* 
S^lft  3Ai]tib  ACAÓ  i)A  b-^lljce  Ó  i;a  co]^) :  i;io|i  3ioixitA  i)iv 


'  loc  tiTtAojóeACCA,  a  druidical  lake,  viz.  a  lake  formed  for  the  purpose 
of  druidical  rites,  or  lift  worship. 

« t)A  l]Ac  ]A&.  The  lake  on  Sliabh  Guillen  is  believed  to  be  still  pos- 
sessed of  the  power  of  changing  the  colour  of  the  hair  to  a  silverj'  grey. 
In  tlie  leAb^n  bticACijAC  mention  is  made  of  a  well  in  Oirgialla,  which 
changed  the  color  of  the  human  hair.  "C]pt^A  5AbU  liu]0  ]  i^.OiriSJAl- 
lA]b ;  iri  A  Air&I  FUjlc  tiAtx  ACAb^tt  b-ic  IjACA  ^A  cczA}]x.  The  well  of 
Gabhal  Liuin  in  Oirghialla ;  its  property  is,  that  human  hair  upon  which 
it  is  poured  will  become  immediately  grey,''  pp.  194-195.  It  is  a  pity 
that  we  of  the  present  day  cannot  identify  the  latter.  Cambrensis 
writes  of  a  well  in  Munster,  which  possessed  the  same  property,  and  of 
another  in  Ulster,  possessing  a  diflerent  one.  "  Est  fons  in  Momoniii, 
cujus  aqua  si  quis  abluitur,  statim  canus  efficitur.  Vidi  hominem  cujus 
pars  barbae,  lyniphis  istis  lota,  canis  incanduerat,  altera  parte  tota  in 
sua  natura  fusca  manente.  Est  e  contra  fous  in  Ultoniá,  quo  si  quis 
abluitur,  non  canescet  amplius.  Ilunc  autem  fontem  feminie  frequcn- 
tant,  et  viri  cauiciem  vitare  volentes.  Bist.  2.  c.  7.  Dr.  Lynch  rates 
Cambrensis  with  much  severity  concerning  these  assertions,  but  our  text, 
as  well  as  the  prevalent  notions  of  the  peasantry,  will  prove  the  injustice 
of  his  invectives.     Vide  Introduction. 

3  21  tt|occ  eiljce  )n;-lcic.'.  For  the  history  of  Fionn's  transformation 
by  the  machinations  of  this  grey  fawn,  see  the  Fenian  poem  of  the  chace 
of  Sliabh  Guillen,  printed  with  a  translation,  in  Miss  Brooke's  litliquea 


169 

were  "Miluchradh   aiul  Aine,  daughters  of   Cuailgne.     Aiiie       f*    ^'^ 

boasted  that  her  own  husband  should  never  grow  hoary  ;  but 

when  Miluchradh  heard  this,  she  summoned  all  the  Tuatha 

Dedanans  into  one  place,  and  caused  them  to  make  her  a  dru- 

idical  lake  on  the  declivity  of  Sliabh  Cuilleann  ;  if  all  the  men 

in  the  world  bathed  in  this  lake  they  would  become  hoary. 

She  (Miluchradh)  came  in  the  shape  of  a  grey  fawn  upon  the 

plain  of  Almhuin,  when  I  chanced  to  be  alone  on  the  plain. 

I  whistled  to  my  hounds,  but  neither  hound  nor  man  heard 

me,  except  Bran  and  Sceoluing  alone.     When  they  came  to 

me,  I  set  them  after  the  fawn,  and  they  pursued  her  thence, 

without  the  knowledge  of  the  people  of  the  place,  until  they 

came  to  Sliabh  Guiliinn,  in  the  district  of  Cuailgne  of  the 

north,  in  Ulster;  and  though  the  distance  of  the  hounds  from 


of  Irish  Poetry,  and  a  metrical  translation  of  the  same  in  Rev.  Dr.  Drum- 
inond's  Ancient  Irish  Minstrelsy. 

<  SllAb  CuiUini)  A  c-ctt)oc  CfjUAilsoe,  Sliabh  Guillen  in  the  district  of 
Cuailgne,  that  is,  the  mountain  of  Cuillean  in  the  district  of  Cuailgne, 
or  of  Cooley,  which  district  is  now  much  limited.  This  district  of  an- 
cient Cuailgne  was  the  patrimony  of  Cuchulaiun,  whose  residence  was 
the  moat  of  Dundealgain,  now  called  the  moat  of  Castletown,  alias  Cas- 
tletown-Bellew.  According  to  an  old  manuscript,  now  in  the  Library 
of  the  Royal  Irish  Academy,  it  extended  from  Glcann  Righe,  or  the 
valley  of  the  Newry  River,  to  Glas  Neara,  or  the  mouth  of  the  river  of 
Annagasson  to  the  south.  Dundealgain  is  now  erroneously  called  Dun- 
dalk,  but  the  town  of  Dundalk  is  not  Dundealgain,  because  the  real 
Dundealgain  is  a  mile  to  the  north  of  the  present  town,  and  the  Irish 
name  of  Dundalk  is  not  Dundealgain,  but  cttik)5-bA]le.t>úii)tieAl5A]i),  i.e. 
Town  of  the  strand  of  Dundealyan.  Wc  have  still  tlie  name  of  a  portion 
of  Dundalk  preserved  in  modern  Irisli,  namely,  b.\ile  ija  cn^SA,  town 
of  the  strand,  or  in  familiar  English,  Seaiown.  As  to  Sliabh  Guillin  ; 
it  is  no  matter  how  the  name  may  have  been  localised,  though  there  are 
several  mountains  in  Ireland  which  have  a  fair  claim  to  that  name — a 
circumstance  that  proves  of  itself  that  the  fact  upon  which  the  tradition 
respecting  them  has  been  founded,  originated  from  some  great  event,  or 
rather  rite,  of  the  olden  time — but  the  mountain  of  Cuailgne  is  too  well 
defined  to  yield  the  claim  to  any  other. 
12 


170 

aca8  i)v\  5-COU  u<\]n}fc.  o]8oa6,  ó  ftC\]i)i8  ai)  o]\]t  bo'n 
c-|-liAb  CU5  coft  bo  DA  cot;A]b ;  50  \)<\]i  b-pcA]*  bójb  civ 
coi;A]it  ^otjA|t  5AbA6  IÓ],  A5A|-  bA  ]0^)■^^A  n}0\i  liorr)|*A  piAÓ 
l*Ai)  borijAi)  bo  C|i)r)eA8  ajt  i)a  coijA^b  a  corb-pAjb  fji)  bo 
fMs*^*     3^1M8   ÓAHj  n)A]t  ^]i)  AT)  CAT)  Ab  conAjic  iV5Íoi) 

CItUC-jlAT),    CAOtb-Alu]T}lJ,    A|t   bjtUAC    t)<V   IoCa'   líVl)-A0lb]t)t) ; 

AjAf  Í  50  bubokC  boi-TT)eAt)n)i)AC  50  b-c^TjsAb  b'A  b-ioijof-vioe; 
ASAi*  b'piA|:|iAi5eA|*  bj  pivc  a  bob]ió|í7.     '  "pívil  beA|i5-ói]t 

CU]C  ]-AT)  loC  I'O  UAirt)/  Ajl  ]•'],  '  A5Af  TT)&  AJ  l*t)i\Tb  Al)l)  ; 
A5Af  5CAfA   1JAC    pUlllt)5]b  piOJl   IaOC,    OttC    A   'pblT)r)j    TTJUTJA 

b-cu5A]^  Ai)  ^<\]\  cu5An)**''  Af  at;  loc/  3t^V  ^^^■^rS  llonj^'A 
bul  bo   f\)'^n),  ^)]o]^  ^u]\]V^]oy  he]t  50  |:AbA  fó  jeAj-A^b, 

A5Af  Cél5]lT)  ]:ó'u   loC    b'lA|l|tA]6    T)A    fi^lle,    A5Af  pUA|tAf  ], 

A3Ar  cu3Ar  cun7  Au  1U5Í01)  1-  I^ó  ^Ab  y]y]  at)  ^ívjl,  asaj* 
céjb  ^6]D  bo  loin?  éAbciton^  yo'^)  loc;  50  T)i\|t  b-]:eAf  ÓATpfA 

civ     COT)A||l     ^OIJA^t     JAlb.       "CADAÓfA     A     b-CÍ|l,      A5Af    ^^']t 

5A]|i]b  uA]it)   Tt/éAbAC,  i;í  ]TA|b  bo  f-jubAl  ]OijArr)  a  loi;)!)- 

fU^Óe,  Ajl  i;-bÓAUATb  feAUÓITA  C|tÍ0T)-CflUCA]5,  C\)ÍMV-!\]iy^]6, 

6)011).  'Cívi;5Ab  i;a  co^t)  bArij'  ]0T)i;fiii6e,  A5A|-  í)]0]i  C115A- 
bA|i  A]tr)e  0]\n) ;  a^aj*  riijAbAjt  cuA]iib  ai)  Ioca  po|i  5AC 

\c]t  UA]n7  :  ACC  UJOIt  CjAl}  50  b-pACAO  CaO|IcC,  A5A|*  COf ac 

i)A  pí'iuije,  50  b-c<vT)5AbAii  uile  ój-  1170  cioi)t)  ;  a5A|-  1/1  cu- 
5AbA|i  Aici^e  oftn).     '  SlbA^ji  a  f*eAT)0]|t/  Afi  Cao|Icc,  'a 

b-^TACA  CÚ  eil]C  A5Af  8<V  COIT),  AjA]*  AOT)  Ó5IAOC  TT)Ó|t  TT)]- 
leACA  lOlJA  1hb|A15J  1)0  CÍV  ]:A|b  ACAO)  CU  Ab  C-|AC5A]JtC  A|t 
Al)  loC  p  ?'       )mY]rO    bÓ\h    50    b-pACA,    AJAj*    1)AC    fAbA    bo 

cuAbA]t  uAim  ;  Acc  céAijijA,  bA  bocAjiAC  lionjfA  tijAii  bobío|- 
ADD  VV),  '0''5H  ^^^  '^]^  IAtda]*  a  iDiJri')  5«^  Ab  tdo  p6]D  ^o 


'  bnwAc  Ai)  locA.  The  CaiUcach  Biorar,  it  is  currently  believed,  alwaj's 
Mas  placed  on  the  margin  of  the  druidical  lake  of  Sliabh  Guillin,  and 
often  succeeded  in  persuading  her  victims  to  plunge  into  it :  she  is  still 
supposed  to  frequent  it,  and  a  trodden  path  from  her  cairn,  or  house, 
to  the  brink  of  that  lake  is  pointed  out  as  the  one  still  frequented  by  her. 


171 

the  fawn  was  short,  it  was  not  sliorter  than  the  distance  be- 
tween me  and  the  hounds.  Nevcrtlieless,  wlien  they  reaelied 
the  mountain,  she  made  a  double  on  the  hounds,  so  that  they 
could  not  find  which  way  she  went ;  and  I  was  exceedingly 
astonished  to  find,  that  any  deer  in  the  world  sliould  hold  out 
before  the  hounds,  in  a  course  of  such  great  length.  I  did  not 
long  remain  so,  when  I  discovered  a  fair,  lovely,  beautiful  girl 
on  the  margin  of  the  delightful  lake  ;  she  appeared  sorrowful 
and  disheartened  ;  so  I  went  up  to  her,  and  asked  her  the  cause 
of  her  sorrow.  '  A  ring  of  red  gold  that  I  dropped  in  the 
lake  while  bathing,'  replied  she,  '  and  I  put  you,  0  Eionn, 
under  f/easa,  which  no  true  hero  would  suffer  himself  to  be 
bound  by,  if  you  do  not  fetch  me  the  ring  out  of  the  lake.' 
Though  I  felt  unwilling  to  go  to  swim,  yet  I  did  not  suffer 
myself  to  be  long  under  the  (/easa :  I  went  into  the  lake  in 
search  of  the  ring,  and,  having  found  it,  restored  it  to  the 
youiig  girl.  She  took  the  ring,  and,  with  a  nimble  leap,  she 
herself  sprang  into  the  lake,  so  that  I  could  not  see  where  she 
betook  herself.  I  landed,  and,  though  my  clothes  were  but  a 
short  distance  from  me,  I  was  quite  unable  to  reach  them,  for 
I  was  changed  into  a  weather-beaten,  decrepid,  old  man.  My 
hounds  came  up  to  me,  but  they  did  not  recognise  me ;  they 
took  the  circuit  of  the  lake  in  every  direction,  leaving  me  alone. 
Caoilte  arrived  soon  after,  accompanied  by  the  leading  Fenians, 
and  they  did  not  recognise  me,  though  they  stood  over  me. 
'  Inform  us,  old  man,'  said  Caoilte,  '  if  thou  hast  seen  a  fawn 
pursued  by  two  hounds,  and  a  man  of  large  frame  and  warlike 
appearance,  and  how  long  thou  hast  been  a  fisherman  on  this 
lake  ?'  '  I  inform  you  that  I  have  seen  them,  and  that  it  is 
not  long  since  they  left  me,'  replied  I.     Still,  however,  I  felt 

2  pail  cu5An)-"  For  the  full  particulars  of  the  device  which  the 
druidess  used  to  decoy  Fionu  into  the  lake  with  the  view  of  wreaking 
her  vengeance  upon  him,  see  Poem  of  the  Chace  of  Sliabh  Guillin,  in 
Miss  Brooke's  Rcliques,  8fc. 


h 


172 

bj  Ai)i) ;  A7;v\f  \)\on  c]A\)  bAH)  aitjIa  y]\)  50  &-civii)|<S  r|tort)lAC 
i;a  "p&joTjc  cusATij :  5ufi  iijtjfiof  bóib  wo  ioy^  6  cfiif  50 
beiitc;  5ii]t  c|teib  f]Ab  ai)  r-ion)livt)  tr^e  ;  a5A|*  3U|t  lé]5io- 
bvNji  rfi]  5iv|t]icA  o^ivftb ;  5uft  Ab  Loc  í)oj|tA  if  AiDjti?  b]  ó 
fo]T)  Aleic;  A5Af  bo  |i]t)i;eAbA|t  CAjtbAb  caoI  OAti^fA,  A5Af 
bo  có^bAbAji  leo  rx)^  50  y']c  Co^UeAii)  CuA|l;^i:)e,  ajaj*  t)0 
cioi)ólAbA]i  I'eACC  5-CACA  i)A  Y&]\)\)e  qrrjpcioll  At}  c-i^iojA ; 

A5A]*  )IÓ  ^AbAbAp    CJlí    líV   A^A]*   Z]X]    l)-0]6ce    A5Í\  COCA]lc  :' 

5ujt  Ab  Aut;  y]\)  b'o]ft3i8  Cu|lleAf}t)  CuAil5i)o  Af  at?  f]t, 
A5Af  eAf5A]t  beA|i5-óift  ^ot^A  U\]n) ;  a5A|*  bixjliof  bAii^fA  ad 
c-eAf5A|i;  A5Af  Ajt  t)-ól  tjA  bÍ5  Óaii)  cí^]ut6  njo  ÓeAlb  a5AI' 
n)0  ÓAic  pe]!)  oftnj,  AjAf  bo  f5A]tAbA|i  tja  b-AiDtÍ7i5ce  ^ij- 
TTjéjle  ]*it)  l]on),  Acc  at)  léjce  Atrjívit);  óijt  bo  b]  rtjo  leAc  pole 
ATÍ)u]l  A]yi5iob  AOT)  5eAl,  •<'^3<^r  ^^  ^^í^f^^'^15  CuiUeAur)  bAn? 
voo  ÓAc  Tíéit)  bo  cui|t  0|tn7;  A5Af  t)ío|i  b'ívjl  l|on7  |-]o  :  ói|t 
bo  cAjcrjio  liort)  a5A|*  Ic]]*  aij  b-'pé|r)í)  ai)  bA^c  |*ir>  bo  be|c 
o|tn}.  'CujAf  Ai)  c-eA]*5A|t  a  lívirb  2t)bic  aí)  Ke]ce  5u|t  ^b 
beoc  A^fce,  a5A|*  cu5  |*&  fiu  a  U\iii7  í)bio|t|tATi)5  ],  ASAf 
]bior  beoc  Af;  •^^S^^r  ^*'  ^l  't^l^^l^P^l'^S  <^5^^  rí*^<^  ^""7  ■^^'^ 
^l|t  -^is.  i}CA}*A  60;  50  b-cii3  Ai)  c-eAí'5Aji  coji  foACA  50 
i;-bcACA  A)*  A  Uv]ii)  p^'i)  D-cocAilc  50  boin)]!;!;  ]Ot)íi|i  b-piA5- 
DAife,  A5A|-  50' ft  itieeAbAji  ujle  cu|5e  uí  jtiiSfAb  ai|i  5i.i|t 
flo|5  Ai)  CAlAti)  é;  AjAf  bA  rbóji  At)  c-iiDfr;íotÍ7  l|on)|'A  A3s\i- 
U'II*  Ai)  b-pó|i;u  1*10 :  óifi  b'A  u-fbhif  uile  bfioc  A]*,  tyo  bjAb 
piof  A5Ar  piit-eoUf  Aco ;  ^S^r  b'pív]*AbAii  pói8l|oc^it) 
cojlle^  fAu  loijAb  A  tj-beACAÓ  a  b-cAlAib;  ASAf  5AC  aoi) 

'  rní  Uv  A5Ar  cttj  i).o|6ce  a5a  cocAjlc.  The  Fenians  continued  to  dig 
away  tlio  mountain  for  the  space  of  three  days  and  as  many  niglits,  until 
they  forced  old  Guillin  of  Cunilgnc  himself  to  come  forth  to  restore 
Fionn  to  his  pristine  condition.  Tradition  tells  us  that  a  mountain,  at 
some  short  distance  from  Sliabh  Guillin,  called  ctiof  fljAb,  was  raised 
with  the  earth  and  huge  rocks  which  they  dug  away  on  the  occnsion. 

■  '^<i\h\\oc'A\vi  co|Ue.  Most  pagans  had  their  sacred  trees,  but  the  tree 
of  the  Irish  druids  appears  to  have  been  the  rAettcATjt),  or  mountain  ash  : 
tliis  tree  is  considered  one  of  groat  power  liy  charm-mongers  even  at  the 


173 

greatly  depresseJ,  on  account  of  the  condition  in  which  I  then 
was,  and  because  I  dare  not  tell  them  that  it  was  I  myself  that 
Mas  there.  The  main  body  of  the  Fenians  arrived  soon  after, 
and  I  informed  them  of  my  adventure  from  the  beginning  to 
the  end ;  and  they,  believing  the  whole  of  my  story,  gave  ut- 
terance to  three  loud  cries.  Hence  the  lake  is  called  Loch 
Doghra,  ever  since  that  time.  They  constructed  a  narrow 
chariot  for  me,  and  conveyed  me  to  tlie  Sighe  of  Cuillean  of 
Cuailgne.  The  seven  battalions  of  the  Fenians  mustered 
around  the  Sighe,  and  continued  to  dig  it  away,  during  three 
nights  and  three  days.  At  the  end  of  that  time,  Cuillean  of 
Cuailgne  came  out  of  the  Sighe  :  he  held  a  vessel  of  red  gold 
in  his  hand,  and  presented  the  vessel  to  me.  Upon  drinking 
from  it,  I  immediately  assumed  my  natural  appearance  and 
colour,  and  the  extraordinary  appearances  I  had  assumed  de- 
parted entirely  from  me,  except  only  the  hoariness ;  for  one 
half  of  my  hair  retained  still  a  bright  silvery  hue.  Cuillean 
proposed  to  restore  it  to  the  natural  colour,  but  I  did  not  wish 
to  have  it  done,  because  it  pleased  both  myself  and  the  Fenians 
that  it  should  retain  that  hue.  The  vessel  was  passed  into  the 
hand  of  Mac  Eeith,  and  he  took  a  drink  from  it ;  he  gave  it 
into  Diorraing's  hand,  and  he  too  drank  out  of  it.  "While 
Diorraing  was  in  the  act  of  handing  the  vessel  to  the  man  who 
was  next  to  him,  it  gave  a  turn  to  one  side,  and  sprang  out 
of  his  hand  into  the  loose  earth  that  had  been  dug  up ;  in 
which  it  sank  deep  before  our  eyes ;  and,  though  we  all  has- 
tened to  recover  it,  the  earth  swallowed  it  up.  This  was  a 
cause  of  great  affliction  both  to  me  and  to  the  Fenians ;  be- 
cause, if  they  all  had  drank  from  it,  they  would  have  become 
gifted  with  foreknowledge  aud  true  wisdom.  Twigs  of  wood 
sprang  up  in  the  spot  where  it  sank  into  the  earth,  and  who- 
soever belicld  them  in  the  morning,  while  fasting,  would  have 

l>rcsent  day ;  but  literally  the  wonl  trejóljocíii)  signifies  an  insect  called 
the  butterfly  which  inhabits  the  woods,  &c. 


17é 

^o  cjbfroAb  Ajt  cóAbloi)5Ab   [Ab,   bo  h]Ar>   y]oy  a\)   Iao|  ]'I') 
^■^15^,   5"T^  Ab  TT)A|i    nu   bo  l|Ac    n^n'o,   a    Cbot;;\ii),"    A)i 

"  2t)A]icuiur)  óuic,"  A|t  Coi;^r)  "  a5A]*  AbA^yt  liort)  Ai)0]f* 
ciouuAf  puATVAyr  Ai)  ^jof  ]:í|x-eólAC  acív  A3A&  A5A|-  v]  h-^ 
KI*^r  '^ío'^  CbiiAi)UA^  6,   i;a  t:iO|*  AU  b|tA&ívit).  "^ 

"  ^i)i)eo|'A&  fii)  !du]c,"  A|i  f]o^v-  "  2lcív  tiob|tAb  A5  ai> 
6Af5A^  A3  BeA5  mAc  Bua^i)  í50  Tbw^N'CA  í)e  4)Ai)A|ni); 
^5^r  5<^c;  AOJ)  ib]0|*  eAj-SAii  A]|*ce,  bA  peA]*AC,  ^í|i-eólAC, 
é ;  A5Af  b'A  ij-^be  At>  bA|iA  b-eAf5A]t,  bA  Trivyo  ^Í0]t  é, 
A5Af  A  rijAC  T)A  6jAi3,  ■^S^I*  ^HÍ  céAb  u]\)-^e  beA|t5-ói|i 
ceAtjcAf  lívi)  T)A  b-eAf5Ai|i  f]r),  A5Af  cjtí  b-T;3Íot)t)A  bo 
BbeA5  nj]c  BuAiT)  bo  bjo]*  b'A  co]Tt)&Ab ;  "Cen'ioiju,  T>e]t- 
ceAt;u,  A5Af  2lftri)AC,  a  T)-Ai}n}OT)i)A  ;  A5A|*  a  ^]  "Coivionr) 
bo  óív]leA|*  Ai)  cobAjt  A^t  liicc  A  coAt;i)A]5ce.     2lcc  ceAQIJA, 


'  Piof  C15C  CbuAt)i)A.     See  the  story  of  Cuanna,  supra. 
2  T[:]ov  At)  bttA&Ain.    The  Editor  has  met  with  no  account  of  this  salmon 
of  knowledge  in  Irish  manuscripts,  though  there  ma)-  be  such  an  account 
extant;  but  tradition  gives  the  following  story  concerning  it.     After 
Fionn  had  lost  Boghman,  his  foster-mother,  at  Lurgangreen,  lie  wan- 
dered about  until  he  came  to  the  banks  of  the  river  Boync.     Here  he 
met  some  fishermen  who  had  been  sent  by  his  enemies  to  ply  their  craft, 
in  the  hope  that  they  might  chance  to  take  the  bwAÓA  (salmon  of  fore- 
knowledge) of  the  Boyne.     Fionn  took  shelter  in  the  temporary  hut 
they  had  constructed,  and  they  soon  after  killed  a  beautiful  salmon 
wliich  glistened  with  specks  of  gold.     They  immediately  set  the  salmon 
before  the  fire  to  broil  slowly  ;  and  being  much  fatigued  they  laid  down 
to  rest,  having  left  the  salmon  in  charge  of  the  strange  boy,  with  a  cau- 
tion tliat,  if  he  allowed  the  fish  to  be  the  least  burnt  in  any  one  spot,  he 
should  lose  his  head  as  the  penalty.     They  then  fell  fast  asleep.    During 
the  process  of  cooking,  and  before  they  awoke,  a  spark  flew  from  the 
fire  whicli  burned  a  blister  on  the  fish.     Fionn  became  so  terrified  at 
wliat  had  happened,  that  he  applied  his  thumb  to  the  scorched  part  in 
the  hope  of  settling  it  down,  so  tliat  it  should  not  be  perceived  by  his 
employers ;  but  the  heat  of  the  blister  burned  his  thumb,  which  he 
thrust  into  his  mouth  to  relieve  the  pain.     No  sooner  luul  he  done  so, 
tlian  he  became  gifted  with  fore-science — for  it  was  the  Salmon  of  Know- 


175 

the  gift  of  forekjiowledgc  of  all  the  cveuts  of  that  day.  So, 
it  was  iu  this  manner  that  I  became  hoary,  O  ('onan,"  said 
I'ionn. 

"Long  may  you  live!"  exclaimed  Conan,  "and  tell  me 
now  by  what  means  you  became  possessed  of  the  true  and  in- 
fallible foreknowledge  with  which  you  are  gifted :  it  is  not  the 
foreknowledge  acquired  at  Cuanna's  house  nor  that  of  tlie 
salmon  (I  mean)." 

"I  will  tell  you  that,"  said  Fionn,  "There  is  a  fountain  of 
the  3Ioon  belonging  to  Beaff  son  of  Buan^  a  Tuatha  Dedanan  : 
every  one  who  drinks  a  vessel  of  the  water,  will  be  gifted  with 
foreknowledge,  and  true  wisdom  ;  and,  if  he  drink  the  contents 
of  a  second  vessel,  he  will  become  a  true  prophet,  and  also  his 
son  after  him.  Three  hundred  ungas  of  red  gold  is  the  price 
jxiid  for  a  vessel  full  of  it.  Teisionn,  Teithcheann,  and  Armhach, 
the  three  daughters  of  Beag  Buan,  are  the  names  of  those  in 
charge  of  it;  and  it  is  Teisionn  who  gives  the  water  from  the 
fountain  to  those  who  purchase  it.     One  day  I  happened  to  be 


ledge  which  he  had  been  cooking — and  he  learned  that  the  king  of  Tara 
seven  years  before,  had  expressly  despatched  tlie  fisliermen  in  quest  of 
the  fcalmon,  in  order  to  discover  where  he  (Fionn  himself)  had  taken 
refuge,  that  he  might  take  his  life.  He  made  his  escape  before  the  fish- 
ermen iwoke  ;  and  it  was  by  these  means  his  thumb  became  possessed 
of  the  pjwer  of  communicating  to  him  the  knowledge  of  future  events. 

"CJ)Unt  FlOIJfJ  A  Oflí305  T)A  béAl, 

]r  CA5A11)  1  ra  t)A  6éA0  50  rnjion-" 

lAO]  i)A  njtjiv  njói^e. 

Fionn  put  his  thumb  in  his  mouth, 

And  chewed  it  under  his  teeth  to  the  marrow. 

■1  cobATi  Ai)  GAfaA .  The  mode  of  expression  used  would  seem  to  con- 
vey the  meaning  that  there  was  a  certain  fountain  at  a  place  called  the 
Easija,  but  most  likely  it  means  the  well  dedicated  to  the  moon,  since 
the  moon  was  supposed  to  possess  all  power  over  water,  by  the  pagan 
Irisl;,  and  oav5a  is  the  moon.  Vide  O'Brien's  Irish  Dictionary,  hence 
it  is  so  translated. 


176 

cívfiU  ÓArbrA  beic  A5  fe]l5  i)a  feAf5A,  poAcx  i)AOt),  A|tt 
UACAÓ  bu)6]tjt)e  Acc  í)|op|VAii)5  Á5Ar  2t)Ac  Ai)  Ke|ce,  a5A|- 
Í50  ioi)ru)5eAn7Ai|i  é,  A5Af  b'éi]t5]obA|t  aij  c|tiufi  bAtj  fp)  a 
Tj-é]T)peAcc  ]0t)ív|t  5-coii)i)|b,  A5Af  bo||iceA|*  T>c-\y]0\v)  lívi) 
t)A  b-c-<'^r5?^^l^^  ^'"irS^  ^^  cTob|tu]be  op|iu]i)i)  b'ívfi  5-001*5, 
50  T)-bcACA  cu]b  iot;íV|i  rrj-béAl  be;  5U]i  frí\5Ab  p]0|*  ]:íit]i;r)0 
A5uitjt;  ó  foir)  Ale|Cj  5u|i  Ab  é  fju  pua|*51a6  bo  ce]|*ce,  a 
C})or)'<\}v,"  A^t  "piODi;. 

"  BejftbuAÓ  A5A|*  beAT)tJACC,"    aji  Co\)ÍX\),    "A5AI'  AbAjH 

l]on)  At)oif  T)A  })-aía6  Ai;i;fAcc  AcC\  A5Ab  r)AceA5Al  bujc  50 
5-cAille  ^Ab;  A5Ar  bo  0]6eAcc  }:é]\)  50  cgac  Neójb  r" 

"'Do  5eAbA|]t  A  pjO]*  x]V  UAitt),  A  Cbor)íviV  Ajt  'pjout). 
"  21  fé  Meoib'  biqi^e  bA  TÍjeAfA  A5Af  bA  6o]cillí5G  a  5-con:- 

AltT)fl|l    IHf    A    T)-G]I1]1JU.       21CC    CéAUtJA,    bA   THOft    A   COIJAC 

A5Af  A  cÍ5eAf :  óiji  bo  bAbA|t  Cfti  bói|t|*G  Api  a  6út),  asa]* 
feACc  ij-ACConjAiitc^  A|t  5AC  bo|tui*  bíob;  A5AI'  56' |t  ttjóti 

A  b|A6cACAr^   1)]    ÓeACAlÓ    AOT)    tjeAC  buiÓeAC  1)CV  fíVCAC  tAjt 

Aot)  bo]xu|*  bjob  |i]Ait)  j  A5Af  cívtjAÓ  Aoo  bo  l<Nec|b  cunj  ija 
b|iii]5uc  1*11)  Neó]b  utt)  uacaÓ,  A5Af  ijí  ^A]b  bo  bu]6cAT;u 
AtjT)  Ajt  n)o  cjoi^T)  ACC  Meóib  A5Af  A  beAt)  A5Af  A  105101;; 
Itó  f-ui5CAi*  A  i*ci5.     Í)aIa  tleójb;  b'^iAi-'iiAib  bíort)  ciicAb 

'  Neó|S,  No  other  notice  of  Neoid  has  yet  turned  up ;  Nfioib  is  a  terra 
ÍOV  penury,  inhospitality,  &c.  'Nuibe  'Heóib  is  a  term  applied  to  a  selfisli 
person,  wlio  is  incapable  of  feeling  for  the  distress  of  a  fellow-creature. 

2  íílcconjAjtic  means  a  petition,  request,  &c.  According  to  tradition, 
tliere  were  officers  who  attended  at  the  door  of  the  Biatach,  vliose  duty 
it  was  to  invite  travellers  in,  to  see  their  wants  supplied,  and  to  take 
care  that  no  one  departed  from  the  house  dissatisfied  with  t^e  reception 
lie  had  met.  1\\e  Athchomairc  aXvi&ys  put  this  question  to  each  guest 
on  his  departure  •—  "  aij  b-?ru]lif\  fúbAC  fi^CAC,"  are  you  in  c/jod  cheer  and 
siitisjied  with  food?  The  answer  was  generally  in  the  affirmative,  but 
if  in  the  negative,  it  was  the  duty  of  tlie  officer  to  sec  tlie  guest  satisfied. 
This  tinie-lionored  and  cliaritable  custom  is  a  proof  of  the  strong  sense 
of  the  duty  of  iiospitality  that  has  always  existed  among  tlie  Irish,  even 
amongst  the  very  poorest  of  the  peasants,  and  which  lias  excited  tlic  ad- 
miiation  of  all  Europe. 


177 

hunting  ill  the  adjacent  sedge,  accompanied  only  by  two  men,         ^  ^   n  ^ 
namely,  Diorraing  and  Mac  Reith,  and  we  approached  the  foun-  ~  *" 

tain,  and  the  three  females  rushed  forth  together  to  oppose  our 
progress  ;  and  Teisionu  splashed  us  with  the  full  of  a  vessel  of 
the  water  of  the  fountain,  in  order  to  stop  us.  A  portion  of 
the  water  passed  into  our  mouths,  hence,  have  we  been  ever 
since  that  time  possessed  of  true  prescience.  This,  then,  Í3 
the  solution  of  your  question,  0  Conan  \"  said  Fionn. 

"  Win  victory  and  blessings,"  said  Conan,  "  and  tell  me  ^  _ 

now  the  memories  of  love  which  cling  to  you,  and  which  you        -^       ^ 
do  not  fear  to  lose;  and  the  hospitality  which  you  received  at 
the  house  of  Neoid." 

"  You  shall  be  informed  about  that,  0  Conan  !"  said  Fionn. 
"Neoid  was  the  most  niggardly  and  inhospitable  man  who 
lived  in  his  time  in  Eire ;  but,  for  all  that,  his  affluence  was 
great,  and  his  house  was  immense.  There  were  three  doors  to 
his  dun,  and  there  were  seven  Áth-chomaircs  at  each  door. 
Though  his  hospitahty  was  on  an  immense  scale,  yet  no  person 
ever  went  out  of  one  of  his  doors  filled  or  satisfied.  I  hap- 
pened to  come  one  day  to  the  bruir/kin  of  Neoid  :  I  was  alone, 
and  there  were  no  people  there  before  me,  but  Neoid  himself, 
and  his  wife,  and  daughter.  I  sat  down  in  the  house,  but 
Neoid  asked  me  why  I  sat  down.     I  rephed  that  I  came  to 


3  biAOCACAf.  General  hospitality.  From  all  the  sources  of  Irish  liÍ8- 
tory  it  is  clear  that  there  were  'royal  officers,  called  "  bjACAiclj,"  esta- 
blished in  commodious  mansions  to  which  ample  tracts  of  land  were  at- 
tached free  from  any  tribute.  It  was  the  duty  of  the  Biatach,  one  of 
wliom  was  established  in  every  canton,  to  provide  food  for  the  table  of 
the  king  or  prince  of  the  district,  if  he  lived  in  his  immediate  vicinity, 
to  have  a  sufficient  store  of  provisions  reserved  for  the  use  of  tlie  kinyj 
and  liis  attendants  when  travelling,  to  cater  for  the  army,  and  to  provide 
food  and  lodging  gratis  for  the  poor,  tlie  traveller,  and  tlie  exiled  stran- 
ger.  Tiie  doors  of  the  Biatach's  house  were  never  closed  cither  by  night 
or  day,  and  his  house  was  the  great  caravansary  where  travellers  and 
strangers  of  all  grades  lodged. 


178 

p<\c  A|i  inq^oAi*  ?  21  m'lbATtcf  A  3U|t  aI)  bo  0]8cAcc  civijAh 
v\r)i),  '  jf  &ó|c  l|ort)|*A,'  Aji  Neoib,  '  t;iv  cuaIa  cu  r5éAl  ai) 
cije-fi,  n^Aii  50  b-civt)A6A|f  Ajit  o]&eACC  Avr);  A^Af  if 
iMrtje  CU5A6  Mo6]b  oiinjfA,  OAÓor),  i)eo]b  A]j)|n)  boeojccioU, 
^"SH  ir  "^IF  fewp?*^  ^T*  boiciUjje  j-Atj  bor^At)/  '  )]♦  bpiACAit 
bAri)fA/  A|i  itjife,  '  njurjA  b-cu5Ai|i  OArbfA  oi&eAcc  bob' 
6eo]r)  50  b-cAbA|t|:Ái|i  bob'  A]ri)óeoit).'  jf  at)tj  ]*]t)  b'éifi5]& 
Meóib  bAtij  cu|i  AtT)Ac;  a5<v|'  bo  ior)ijfA]5eAf  6  a|i  liv^i 
An  cije,  A5Af  cu3Af  cojt  cjteAf  bófib  bo,  50  b-civ|tlA  pAoi; 
|:ócí\|tf  ijA  Ajt  U\|i :  5U|i  ceAnjlAi"  50  bAO|i  boc]tAibeAC  a 
b-p]A5nA]i*o  A  rbi)Cv  A5A|*  A  ]V'SV')G  6  :  AJAf  ltU5Af  A  beAT> 
llOTT)  A]t  At)  leAbAÓ  TfiX  neAfA  ÓATT).  '  NíV  TT)eill  TT^O  beAl),  A 
Ó5IAOIC  A1)-A1CT)]6,'    A|l  Mcólb,     '  A5Af    Í30   6éA1)A  CAIJlbjOCC 

]tIoc;  A5Af  tio  béAji'  m']V'S]ov  buic,  Ó]|i  i|*  b]on5íní\lA  beA5- 

rin  Í-'   ^o  cuiseAf  5u|i  có]ri  rvh  ^5*r  ^^  i^isi^r  ^sat) 

1^eo]b,  A5Af  bo  fSAo^leAf  be  ]:^]V,  A5Af  bo  |i]neATnAi|t 
cA|t  A3Af  cun)Ai)t)  jte  céjle,  A^Af  t)0  })-o\lrrj^]6  ploAO  a5A]* 
f6A]*CA  6ú]T)t);  A5Af  CU5A&  2lo|pe,  lesion  Me6]b,  a|i  peif 

Umt^A  A5Af  leApCA  ÓAT^rA  AT)  OjOCe  f]t);  AJAf  A|t  í)-é]|l5lÓ 
6Ú]1)T)    A|l   J)A    tT)i\|lAC,    b']A|lJl  2l0]pe   A^f^e    TDAOjne,    CAÓOT), 

'cópniiic  ]t]|*  At)  lot)'  bo  b)  x^V  ^o]-\xo  IcAc  ArT)u]c  bo't)  cjj, 
A^Af  A  cAbAi|ic  beó  cú]ce,'  A5Af  bo  itjijeAfA  ArbÍA  y]\). 
JAjt  i)-51aca6  At)  loji)  b'2loiiie  ^oija  liviti),  bo  lé]-^  attjac  6, 
A5A|*  bo  cu|]t  bo  C|tort)-5eA|*A  o|in)f a  a  sAbAjl  5ACA  bl^A- 

5A]t)  :    1)6  11)0  &A5  pé|T)  AT)  bl|A5A1t)  1)AC  5AbAlt)T)  i>. 

^ATHlb  10T)A  Í5fA]5  f|1)  búlt)l),    5U|t  C(0t)0lAbAft    n)AlCO    1)A 

"pé]i)t)e  bo  cAiciotT)  bA]t)|f|  2I01P0  11)5^01)  t^eóib ;  A5Af  At) 
cAt)  Ab  coi)Ai|ic  Meójb  |0TDAb  At)bí5e  A5Af  i)a  bí5c  b'A  ca- 

bATJlC    bo  t)A   COT)A]b   AJA]*   bo  T)A    ^lollAOA^b ;    bo    bfllf    At) 


'  Cb]ii)fX]i  Tt|r  AI)  loo.  This  was  some  ceremony,  of  the  meaning  of 
■which  wc  are  now  ignorant.  This  is  proved  by  the  remainder  of  the 
sentence ;  when  Fionn  caught  tJie  bird,  the  hidy  commanded  liim  to  let 
it  go  at  large,  and  bound  him  under  heavy  gcasa  to  catch  it  every  year, 


]79 

claim  liospitalil)-.  '1  prcsiiinc,'  said  Ncoid,  '  tlint  }ou  have 
not  heard  the  report  about  this  liouse,  since  you  liave  come 
hither  in  quest  of  liospitality :  the  reason  I  have  been  called 
Neoid  is,  because  Neoid  is  the  name  for  penury,  and  I  am  the 
most  penurious  man  in  the  world.'  '  I  pledge  my  word/  said 
I,  '  that  if  you  do  not  afford  me  hospitality  with  your  free  will, 
you  shall  against  your  will/  Neoid,  thereupon,  started  up  to 
turu  me  out.  I  attacked  him  in  the  middle  of  the  floor,  and 
having  thrown  him  across  a  table,  laid  him  helplessly  prostrate 
on  the  ground.  I  bound  him  hard  and  fast  before  the  eyes 
of  his  wife  and  daughter.         =^         *         ^         --k         * 

'  1  will  enter  iuto  friendship  with  you,'  said  Neoid,  'and  bestow 
on  you  my  daughter ;  for  she  is  well  deserving  of  a  good  hus- 
band. I  saw  that  that  was  a  good  proposition.  ■»(■  *  * 
I  then  unbound  him,  and  we  at  once  became  friendly  and  so- 
ciable. A  banquet  and  feast  was  prepared  for  us,  and  Aoife, 
the  daughter  of  Neoid,  was  given  me  to  ^yife.  *  *  -5^ 
"\Yhen  w^e  arose  the  next  morning  Aoife  requested  me  to  grant 
her  a  pledge  instead  of  wealth,  namely,  to  run  after  tlie  black- 
bird that  was  in  the  shrubbery  outside  of  the  house,  and  fetch 
it  to  her  alive.  I  did  as  she  required,  and,  when  Aoife  took 
the  bird  in  her  hand,  she  let  it  fly  away,  and  bound  me  under 
a  heavy  geasa  to  catch  it  every  year,  or  otherwise  that  my  own 
death  should  occur  in  tlie  year  that  I  did  not  catch  it. 

"  We  were  not  long  thus,  when  the  chiefs  of  the  Fenians 
assembled  to  attend  the  wedding  of  Aoife,  daughter  of  Neoid  ; 
and  when  Neoid  saw  the  great  profusion  of  food  and  drink  that 
had  been  given  to  the  hounds  and  servants,  the  vein  of  penury 


or  otherwise  he  should  die  tlie  year  in  which  he  failed  to  fulfil  that  obli- 
gation. We  are  told  that  the  Tuatha  Dedauaus  were  possessed  of  tlie 
secret  art  of  rendering  themselves  immortal ;  perhaps  this  may  be  a 
charm  used  for  the  protraction  of  life  beyond  the  natural  span. 


ISO 

éu|l  boicciU'  bo  b]  y'A  i)<^  c|ioi6e ;  ]o^uy  51111  b'e  C|ieAi*  peAji 
bob'  peAftjt  0|OOAC  bV  |iA]b  a  t)-6||t]i)i)  6  X]u  ait^ac  6 ;  A5Af 
A5  n?)  6a5  bAtt)  6A5Aib-]-]  A  Cbor)ivit)/'  Aft  "Flow.  "6a5 
oile  bArt)  éA5A]b,  6a6ot;,  Aor)  bo  lAec^b  b'A  itAbA|*A  A|t 
ri)Cv]5  i)<v  Ce]6ce  ceAf;^  bo  cooAjtc  i^sioTj  <\lu]i)t)  ]olc|iocAC, 
A5Af  b'p]AfftA]5io|*  b]  c|ieAb  cu5  lotjA  b-"<^cAÓ  í  ?  '2I3 
lA|t]tAió  ^]ji  Acívin)/  A]t  rí,  '  CjieAb  At)  ^eAji?'  A|t  njife, 
'  1J1  b-pu]l  ^eA]t  ii]|ti5ce  A3Art)  b'A  iA|t|iAi6/  aji  t]-],  '  acc 
Ai)  peA|t  bo  béA|iA  co^rbce  6An)/  *  c^teAb  at)  co]Tbce  acao| 

CÚ    ]A]t|XAl6  ?'    A|l    Tl71fe,    '  l&ITT)  rA|V   A1)    J-clojC  fjtj/    A]l    ]*], 

*  A|i  b-A5A]6.'     'Do  léi5eAfA  n)'A]fiii7  A|t  livft  A5A]-  C115AI* 

Al)  lé]n)  CAjt  AU  5-cloiC  5AI}  pUliteAC.       '  Hj    b-<VTT)lA6  f]l)  Af 

có||i'  A|i  fi,  'acc  cu]|t  At)  I1A5  cloice  X]  córb-í^jib  jtjoc 
p6|T)  Afi  bo  6eA]t|ii}AiT)i),  A5AI*  CAbA]fi  lé]n)  civipfe/  i)o 
■Ii]i)eAfA  ArblA,  A5Af  v]  CU5AI'  jiiAri)  lé]n}  bA  bO]l5e  liort) 
i)iv  )y  A3Af  b'^l-jApiiAijeA]-  bi  cjteAb  bob'  ■A]V]rx)  b]  ?  '  6Ab- 
AO]t)  fléibe  CAe]t)^  rr}'Aii)iri)/  Aji  fi,  'A5Af  c<x]]i|*]  lion?  a 
i;occ  bAro  c|5  ^^611)/  í)o  jtiAcrAf  lé],  A5Af  bo  lui5eArr)Ai|t 
A  b-pAitfiAb  A  cé]le  AT)  o^Oce  y]V,  <V5Af  a  búbA]|tc  X]  ^]OTr), 

'  AT)  bl]<N5A11J  T)AC  ClubjtAltJt)  At)  l^jTI?  flU  50  b-^TASAlW  bíVf 
AI)bA6  ;'  A5Af  A3  X]^h  ^  C\)0[)'4>]\),  At)  bA^lA  b-éA3  bATT)  éA3- 
Alb,      éAÓOl),    léjTT)     CAft    cl0]C     1)A    Ccjbce    3ACA     bllA3AIU." 

6a3  ejle  bArt)  6A3Aib,  njuc  bo  ri^ucAib  Sbl^iJ^^iÓe'*  bo  rb^ji- 
bAÓ  3AC  bliA3ATi)  A3AP  A  3eA|*A  bo  corbAjl,  &a6ot),  3AU  a 
3011),  A3Af  3AT)  Í  bo  |-5ftéACA6  |ic  i;a  trjAftbAÓ,  A3Af  at)  c] 

"  Cuil  &o|cc)ll.  Cu|l  signifies  ajli/  or  (/rub.  It  is  believed  by  tbe  peo- 
ple that  a  niggardly  or  penurious  person  has  a  grub  or  worm  in  liis  heart, 
and  that  this  worm  gnaws  away  the  rich  vein  of  hospitable  feelings  which 
exists  in  that  organ,  and  thereby  renders  the  sufferer  miserly  and  inhos- 
pitable. 

2  '4)ix5  Ai)  Cbéjóco  ceAf.  The  plain  of  Ceidhte  in  the  south.  Unknown 
to  the  Editor. 

3  eA&Aoji)  fló|bc  Caoji)  was  a  powerful  fairy  princess  who  had  many 
oilier  places  of  resort  in  Ireland  :  she  bound  Fioun  to  the  performance 
of  the  ridiculous  charm  of  carrying  a   large  stone  on  the  palm  of  his 


181 

vvliich  was  in  his  lieart  burst,  and,  thenceforward,  he  became 
the  third  most  hospitable  man  that  was  in  Erin.  This  is 
one  of  my  deaths,  0  Couan"  said  Fionn.  "  There  is  another 
of  my  deaths,  namely  ;  one  day,  as  I  happened  to  be  on  Magh 
Ceidhte  in  the  south,  I  met  a  beautiful,  well-shaped  young 
maiden  :  I  asked  her  why  she  strayed  alone;  '  I  am  in  search 
of  a  husband,'  she  replied.  '  What  description  of  a  husband  ?' 
asked  I.  '  I  seek  no  particular  man,  but  one  who  will  grant 
me  certain  conditions.'  '  What  conditions  do  you  require,' 
asked  I.  'To  leap  over  that  stone  just  before  you,'  answered 
she.  I  cast  my  arms  of  war  on  the  ground,  and  leaped  over 
the  stone  without  delay.  '  It  is  not  proper  to  perform  it  in 
that  manner/  said  she,  '  but  place  this  stone,  equal  to  yourself 
in  height,  upon  the  palm  of  your  hand,  and  then  leap  over  it.' 
I  did  so ;  and  I  never  felt  greater  difficulty  in  making  a  leap 
than  on  that  occasion.  I  asked  her  what  was  her*  name. 
*  Eadaoin  of  Sliabh  Caein  is  my  name,'  said  she ;  '  and  come 
home  to  my  house  with  me  to-night.'     I  went  with  her        * 

and  she  told  me  that  the  year  in  which  I  should  neglect  to 
make  that  leap,  I  should  die  a  sudden  death.  Therefore, 
O  Conan  !  that  is  the  second  death  of  mine,  namely,  (to  the 
neglect)  to  leap  over  the  stone  on  Ceidhte  every  year.  Another 
of  my  deaths  (i.e.,  another  duty  the  neglect  of  which  would 
be  a  cause  of  death  to  me)  is  to  kill  one  of  the  hogs  of  Slanaidhe 
every  year,  and  preserve  its  geasa^  namely,  not  to  wound  it, 
and  to  take  care  it  should  not  grunt  while  being  killed ;  and 

hand,  while  he  leaped  over  another  upriglit  stone,  for  the  purpose  of 
prolonging  his  life. 

1  2r)uc  bo  rijucAib  SbU\i)A]6c.  This  is  a  remarkable  passage,  and  may 
refer  to  the  ceremony  in  use  at  the  sacrifice  of  the  hog  to  the  sun.  The 
boar  occupies  a  prominent  place  in  the  Hindoo  mythology.  The  Tuatha 
Dedanaus  were  remarkable  for  their  great  flocks  of  huge  swine ;  and  they 
are  said  to  have  been  accustomed,  when  occasion  required,  to  assume 
tlie  appearance  of  those  animals. 


182 
bo  rtmiiipoAh  j,  b'A  b-lott)CA|t  50  Ija^  a  ^uIacca  ;  AjAf  jam 

5AOC    A    b-CUAl6    CiV|l|*A    b'A    hÓ]t,    AJAf    5AC    &0|tui*   r^uy    A 

n)-beA]tcA]6e  ^  bo  be]c  bjiuibco  oy  a  ciorju,  ^S^J^r  3^^^  bu]i)c 
bo  óeA|iiT)Ab  u]TT)pe  Atjij  aoij  bAjle  at)  ojóce  fit) :  5Ui\  Ab  é 
|-]i)  puAf5lA  bo  ce]f*ce,  a  Cbouiv]t)/'  a)i  pioijt). 

"Bc]|t  buAÓ  A5A]-  bcA1)t)ACc/'  Afl  CoUÍVl),  "  A5Af  AbA^jt 
lljOrO  At;Olf  T)A  Cjt]   })-UitCAlJl  TT}eA|xbA]ll    ]f    n^CAfA    ItjOC  cu- 

5Air  TiiAii)  ?" 

"  21  b&A|i  y]^  |iioc,"  A]t  "piorjr).  "  Slop  bo  lAecib  b'A 
jiAbAf  bo  fejls  A|i  biiuAc  CAifir)  C|torn5l]r)r)e/  A3A]*  bo 
bú]|*ío5A6  At)  n)uc  cu5Ati)  Af  a  t)-bubfo]l5  ^oija  |tAbA|*A 
A5A]'  T)A  co]r),  A5A]*  ciifntAiÓc  t)A  péit;i)e  ioi)A  biAi5;  A5Ar 
cu5A|*A  ujtcAit  bAtt)  fleA5  b'A  ])-]0x)r)yA]6c ;  50  b-civ|tlA  a 
b-cAO]feAC  n}'S]C  bAtt)  njujTjciii  ^,  6A6or),  a  n)-bol5  At)  ^]|i 
50  b-co]icA|i  A  5-c&Abó]]t :  5u]i  Ab  ua]6  acív  21c  B0I5,  t)ó 
<Dúi)  Bol5,2  líi^tt)  le  Co|tcA  2t)úmATj ;  A5Af  cu5Af  xi|tcA]i 
eile  50  b-civjilA  At)  ©Abbó  n)ic  2t)u]t)C)t)T),  5U|i  n)A|tbA6  é  ; 

A3Af    CUJAj*    At)    C|ieA|*    U|lCA]t,     5U]t    li)A|lbA]*    jOtpAlf    TT)]C 

BAcbAi|i ;  3u|i  Ab  UA16  AC^  fl^Ab  JorbAif  |:6f .  í)'A]Ci)í6eAf 
50  t)-bcA]iiit)A6  tt)'AirbleA]*  bo  t)A  Cjti  b-"pcA]]t  fp) ;  a5A|- 
li|t)0A6  foAjtcA  tio  t)A  c]i]U]i  Iaoc  x]V  '>  ^"S^X  ^0  T*5M*^^^  '^ 
ii-At)rt)ot)i)A  Ó]*  A  5-ciot)t) ;  511]%  Ab  ^Ab  j-At)  t)A  c]ti  b-iM^^*^!!^ 

1|-    Tt)CAfA    \]OXr)    CU5A|-    ^llAtt),"    A|l  "plOt)!),    "  A5Af   béAi;CA|l 

leAbAÓ  peAfCA  8ú|r)i);  ó||i  t)í  beA5  Óujc  frA]b  bo  leAijAif 
o\\V!)  A  Cbor)ívir) ;  A^Af  b']i)i)|*íof  xrjoyi'M)  bArt)  8eACA]tAib 
pé|t)  A^Af  i)A  p6it)t)e  6u]c;  A5Af,  bArt)  6ó]5,  if  beijte  o\6cc 
Acív  Ai)i)/'  FitjeAÓ  AtblAiÓ  x\r),  A5Af  CU5A6  piijtjbeilb, 
]f)3Íot)    Cbot)ív|t),    A]t   peif-lívri)A    A5Af    loApcA   b'pbiotjt). 

21CC  CÓAt)l)A,  bO  COtJAllCAÓ  CAlbrC^  ^3^r  I'l^^IlA  a8-UACIÍ)A]1 

b'^biot)');  C]t6  t)A  cobÍA  :    5Uft  6H1318  pó  Cfi]   córbíxiib   lo 

UACAjb  O't)  lcApCA.       "  C|lCAb  f^  lll)5<^  j^lT    ^'í  lcAbA  A  }\]j^ 

'  Caiu)  Cttoii)5l|i)i)C.  The  Cam  of  (.rumlin,  in  the  county  of  Duljliii, 
80  ccltbrntud  in  Foni;in  loro. 

2  t^ui)  bol-,.     The  fortrcaa  oj   Bul<j. 


<^  r 


183 

that  he  who  kills  it  should  carry  it  to  the  place  of  cooking  , 
that  the  north  uiiid  should  not  be  allowed  to  blow  over  it,  lest 
it  (the  carcase)  might  be  scorched  ;  and  that  every  door  to 
wliich  it  may  be  carried  should  be  closed  against  it,  and  that 
no  person  in  one  town  should  be  forgotten  in  the  course  of  the 
visit  on  that  night.  So  you  now  have  the  answer  to  your  ques- 
tion, 0  Conan  \"  said  Eionn. 

"  Win  victory  and  blessings,  and  tell  me  now  about  the  three  /i  9  iy 
random  shots  that  trouble  you  most  of  all  that  you  have  ever  g-t  n  ^ 
cast/'  asked  Conan.  ^  / 

" I  will  tell  you  about  that/' said  rionn.  "One  day,  as  I  ([•  >ff 
had  been  hunting  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Carn  Cromghlinne, 
a  hog  was  started  for  me  from  the  unfavorable  hunting  ground 
in  which  I  then  was,  and  the  hounds  and  the  heroes  of  the 
Fenians  were  hot  in  pursuit  after  it.  I  made  a  cast  of  my  ja- 
velin at  it,  but  the  weapon  pierced  the  bowels  of  a  worthy  chief 
of  my  people,  and  he  immediately  expired.  It  is  from  this 
(incident)  that  Ath-Bolg  or  Dun-Bolg,  near  Cork,  in  Munster, 
is  so  called.  I  gave  another  cast  which  pierced  Eadbho,  son  «^U-v 
of  Muinchin,  and  he  was  slain ;  and  I  made  a  third  cast,  and 
killed  Jomais,  son  of  Bachar,  so  that  it  is  after  his  name  Sliabh 
Jomais  is  named.  I  perceived  that  I  had  committed  ruinous 
acts  by  means  of  those  three  throws  ;  so  I  csL\iseá/eai-ís  (graves) 
to  be  made  for  the  three  heroes,  and  their  names  to  be  inscribed 
thereon.  Therefore  these  are  the  three  casts,  of  all  I  ever  gave, 
that  most  grieve  me,"  said  Fionn.  "  Prepare  a  bed  immedi- 
ately for  us,  because  you  should  be  satisfied  with  the  length  of 
time  you  have  been  questioning  me,  0  Conan  !  during  which 
I  have  informed  you  about  very  man}  of  my  own  and  the  Fe- 
nians' diiiiculties  :  I  think  it  is  now  the  latter  end  of  the  night." 
And  so  it  was  done.         *         í<-         -sf         *         -sf         * 

In  the  mean  time  a  frightful  vision  and  hobgoblin  appeared 
to  Fionn  in  his  sleep,  so  that  he  sprang  thrice  from  the  bed 


^  pn<i^ 


184 
fO^]1)^■)C?"  A|i  lp]r)\)bc]\h.      "  Duaca  *t)c  í)At)At)t)^   bo  co- 

lJA|lCAf  bAit),"    A|t    fé,    "  bo    CÓ5bí\]l    bltUjjtJC    0|ltT7,    A3Af  A 

n?-be]c  A5  plAijij-cofSA^pc  t)A  pcjtjtje." 

Í)aIa  t)A  péitjt^e;  bo  JAbAbAjt  búr)-po|tc  A5  "pocAjiUb 
ijA  2t)o5i)A  AT)  oibce  riD,  A5Af  bA  b|tói)  loó  be^c  jAt)  cuAjt- 
A]*5bAil  f\)]VV  Aco:  5i6eA6  b'é]|v5i8  BítAi)  BeA3  O'BuA- 
c^jt)  A5Af  BftAt)  2l)ó|t  TDAC  pbeAjtsuf  A,  A  ri)OC  i:)A  rt)Aibi)e 

AjX    1)A    TÍjaitAC;    A5A]'    C^]T)1Ó    CUTT)    ^blC    Al)    Heice  ;    AJA]* 

b'p|Ap|tA]6e  cA  ]tA]b  "pjOT)!)  AT)  OjOce  •|*]t)  ?  (ói|i  bo  b]  ■\:]oy 
^I|i-eólAc  A5  2t)AC  at;  Ke]ce')  a  búbA]]ic  21)ac  at;  HG]tc; 
*' C]A  bo  b|A6  A  flO|*,  T)]  b-^ll  IjOTT)  bfioc-pi\]|*ciT)e  bo  6&A- 

TJATT),     b'eAslA    30    IT)-blAbAO]f    rTJfJÍV    T)Ó     TT)]0T)-ÓA01T;e     bAIT) 

leAijtT)ú]r)  uittje,  t;ív  A3  ]A|t]tA]6  ^eAfA  0|tTi7.  ^l^eAÓ,  a 
bei]t]TT)  3u|i  Ab   A  b-ci5  CboT7ii]T)  Cbiyt)  Sb^^l^e,    bo  b^ 

plOTJt)  A3Af  í)]0]t]tA1T?3  A  1[lA0]]l." 

^151^    l^'^i^  TF)    ^V    8^    Bb|lAT)    50    CO  AC   CboijiVlt),    A3Af 

í:CA]tAí-  'piotjT)  ]:íxilce  |i]u;  a3A]'  cii3AbA]i  fAT)  Acroufivr)  bo 
C]t6  ^leAÓ-ól  bAiT)]]*e  a  rbi)<v  A3Af  3Ar)  at)  "pblATji)  tda^Uo 

]t]f.  "Ba  oUatT)  a  3-C10T)I)  TT^iOfA  AT)  frleAÓ,"  Ajt  CoT^ai), 
"  A3A|'  CAbflAlbfl  AT)  pblATJT)  b'A  CA]C10rb  ?"  i)'AOt;CA 
"FlODD  ri');    ^CC    CeAT)t)A,  5luA|f10r  "plOTji;,    í)]0flítAlT)3,    AU 

b;v  Bbn-ND,  'r  A  3-coir),  30  loT;3po)ic  t)a  'p&jTjijé.     "  2lcív 

f'loAÓ  A3U]T)T)   oUatT)  A  Th2llTbu]T),"    A]t  BjlAT),    "  A3Af  CeA3- 

rj7A0]b  bV  CAicjOTb."  ^l^^in^  jteon^pA  30  b-^lrbiMt),  3uit 
b-éA3itA6  ccAC  t)-ólA  AT)  OjOce  f  IT)  A3  n;Aic|b  t)a  fé]vv(^ ; 

A3Ar  T)iO]t  ClAT)  bólb  ATblA  30  b-f  ACAbAJl  CAl|lb]lC  t]|.'eA- 
CA)|l,  IT)AC  CbO]lTT)AlC  Tbe]C  2ll|lC,  TT)AC  Cbop)!)  Cb^Ab-CbA- 
CA]3,  A3  COACC  CUTT)  AT)  bA)lc  b'A  T)-]01)t)fUl6o.  "  M|  rT)AIC 
CÍXJiIa    ]'0    6Ú|1)t),"    A|l  f]0}-)X),    "0]|t  ]]'    3eAI-A  bÚjUT)  3AI)  4\]\. 

b-ccAc  bo.|'3Aoile  30  |'3A|irT)A0ib  f ^jt)  30  f úbAC  fO|-TT)eAT)rT)Ac 

1  ^)ac  ai)  Uejte,  {literally  the  son  of  the  Ram),  Fam  or  Mac  Ram. 
'i'his  name  is  now  nearly  extinct  in  Ireland ;  and  we  believe  that  the 
only  representatives  of  it  living,  are  the  respectable  f.miily  who  reside 
at  Ráinslovvn,  near  Gorey,  in  the  county  of  AVcxford. 


1S5 


tlirougli  terror.  "  Wliy  do  yoa  start  from  the  bed,  0  Fenian 
king  ?''  asked  Finndeilbli.  "  I  saw  the  Taatha  Dedanans ;  they 
were  raising  a  quarrel  against  me,  and  making  a  bloody  carnage 
of  the  Fenians/' 

As  for  the  Fenians,  they  pitched  their  camp  at  Fotharladh 
of  Moghna  that  night,  and  felt  sorrowful,  because  they  had 
heard  no  tidings  of  Fionn.  Bran  Beg  O'Buadhchan,  and  Bran 
Mor,  son  of  Feargus,  arose  early  next  morning,  and  proceeded 
to  Mac  an  Eeith,  and  enquired  of  him  where  Fionn  had  been 
that  night  (for  Mac  an  Reith  possessed  the  gift  of  foreknow- 
ledge and  true  wisdom).  Mac  an  Reithsaid;  "  Though  I  well 
know  (where  he  has  been),  I  do  not  wish  to  forebode  evil,  lest 
women  and  children  should  persecute  me  on  that  account,  or 
ask  me  for  foreknowledge;  yet  I  say,  that  it  is  in  the  house  of 
Conan  of  Ceann  Sleibhe,  that  Fionn  and  Diorraing  spent  last 
night." 

The  two  Brans,  thereupon,  proceeded  to  the  house  of  Conan  : 
Fionn  welcomed  them,  but  they  upbraided  him,  because  he  had 
attended  the  wedding-feast  of  his  wife  unattended  by  the  Fe- 
nians. "  The  banquet  shall  be  prepared  in  a  month,"  said 
Conan,  "  and  do  ye  invite  the  Fenians  to  partake  of  it."  Fiona 
agreed  to  that  arrangement.  In  the  meantime  Fionn,  Diorraing, 
and  the  two  Brans  proceeded  to  the  encampment  of  the  Fenians. 
"  We  have  got  a  banquet  prepared  and  ready  in  Almhuin ; — 
let  us  go  and  partake  of  it,"  said  Bran.  They  proceeded  for- 
ward to  Almhuin  ;  and  the  chiefs  of  the  Fenians  were  intent 
on  enjoying  the  pleasures  of  the  banqueting  hall  that  night. 
They  had  not,  however,  been  long  there  when  they  saw  Cairbre 
Lifeachair,  son  of  Cormac,  son  of  Conn  of  the  Hundred  Battles, 
shape  his  way  dii-ectly  to  the  place  where  they  were.  "  This 
is  no  good  thing  that  has  come  to  us,"  said  Fionn ;  "  since 
our  geasa  prohibit  us  to  break  up  our  jovial  assembly,  until 
we  ourselves  think  proper  to  separate  in  jollity  and  mirth,  yet 
13 


:& 


\iii 


18« 

|te  cójle,"  ^5Ar  T)ío|t  b-puUi]t  bo  rb<vc  ^]i^  ft]|iioT)t)  5u|i 
aI)  uimc  pe^r)  beAprAO]  eA3A|t  At)  cÍ5e  oil.  "  H]  b-^mU  nr» 
bo  66At)ArT}"  A|i  0]ni),  "  Acc  léi5|0ro  leAc  At)  cÍ5e  bo  rbAC 
TM5  6i|iiot)t),  A3A]-  At)  leAc  eile  a^u)vv  V'^}V-"  K]DeA6 
ArbU  fjt),  Acc  ceAt)t)A,  At)  leAc  bo  ^oltt)u|3eA6  bo'i)  c^j  bo 
tT)AC  |tÍ5  Biftioi)!),  bo  bAbA|t  b]Af  bo  "Cbu^CA  í)e  <t)Ai)At)i) 

Al)t),  éAÓOI),  píXllbe  2t)Ófl  Tt)AC  <t)ori)t)Aill,  A3Af  'p^jlbo 
BeA3  tt)AC  i)0TT)t)A|ll  ;   A3A|*  A  bÚb]tAbA|t  "  3lX|l  Ab  A|l  A  fOt) 

^é|t)  bo  be]c  A|t  At)  3-cu]b  |*it)  bo'i)  C15  bo  ^oltT)iii3eA6  é." 
"'CftuA3  |*it)i),"  A|i  "pAjlbe  BeA5,  "  ]y  mó]i  At)  cixiji  a3A|' 
AI)  rAiiCAi|*i)e  CU3A6  oft|tiqi)t)  a  t)Occ,  A3A|'  bA  &  rt)]At) 
'pbH)!)  cu]lle  b'^TDiitc  0|t|tu|t)i)  ;  6i|i  At)  boAi)  bo  |*t)Att)A6  |t]|* 
At)  b-C|ieAf  j:eA|t  ]]*  peii]t]t  bo  'Cbu'<'^c<\  <t)e  i)Ai)AT)t),  acív  ^*] 
A3  f]ovr)  b'A]tt)i5eoit)  a  b-ACA|i  a5A]*  a  tdíica|í."  C)o6 
ciiAcc,  3luAinb  At)  bjAi*  y\x)  a  trjoc  t)a  n)Aibi)e  30  ']p]ot)t)bA]i|t 
^^ISb  peAbAil,  A3A|-  it)fib  bo  3AC  civ]|i  a3A|*  3AC  cA|t- 
CAi|*i)e  bob'  tbiAt)  le  'pioi)t)  a3A|-  le  "P]At)t)Aib  6i|tiot)i) 
b'irt)i]ic  Á^íi  r^biiACA  i)e  í)At)Ai)t). 

^DaIa  "pblODDbAini  2t)<x]5b  peAbA)!;'  bo  cii]|i  ceACCA  ua]8 
A]ii  ^eAb  6i|iioi)i)  u]le  bo  ciot)ol  "CbuACA  í)e  <DAi)Ai)t)  oy  3AC 
ivjc  C'v73e  ;  ó||i  bA  1113  ofijiA  'piot)t)bA]i|i  :  30  b-civi)3AbA|t  c\?3e 
oy  3AC  '<x]z,  ri*  CACA  béA3  bo  ^ié]^  5lAt)-f U1A3  a  3-c]0i)t)  tt)io|-A 
A] ft  bftiiAc  Loc  <t)eA|t3-i)be]|tc ;  A^^y  bA  &  At)  I'a  c&Abt)A  f  jt) 
|iivii)]3  le  Coi)ivt)  At)  bAit)if  bo  be^c  ollAtb  ^^30  |:iv  cott)Ai]i 
Fbl')»)  o^Ti^T  ^^  )-&li)i)G  :  3u|i  cu]]t  Soi|*c|teAC,  a  beAi)-eAclAc 
yé]t),  A]t  A  3-cioi)t)  30  "CeAtbAift  Luac|ia  ;  a3A|*  Afi  t)-béAt)Art) 
A  ceACCA  |te  "Plot)!),  3luAiriof  |to;rt)pe  CA|t  t)A]f  U]ti)  ]te  X.oc 

1  V]o\)t)hA^]\  9X)'A]T:,h  PoAbAil.  A  powerful  prince  of  the  Tuatha  Deda- 
nans.  The  Counaclit  peasantry  believe  that  he  is  the  king  of  the  ftiiries 
of  their  province:  they  call  him  Fionnbharra,  others  FUicbcAticAc  Fi- 
ot)t)bAttn  T^io  ijAb-peATt  n)-beA5.  His  residence  is  in  Knockmadh  near  Castle 
Hackett,  county  of  Galway  ;  and  the  neighbouring  peasantry  relate  many 
strange  stories  about  that  being.  To  Fionnbharra  they  attribute  the  great 
success  attending  the  family  of  Kirwan  on  the  turf.  Fionnbharra  makes 
no  scruple  to  supply  any  vacancies  that  may  occur  in  his  forces  by  the 


187 

the  son  of  the  king  of  Eire  will  consider  it  a  privilege  due  to 
him  to  assume  the  regulation  of  the  banqueting  hall."  "  We 
will  not  let  it  be  so,  but  we  will  give  up  one  half  of  the  hall 
for  the  accommodatioa  of  the  son  of  the  king  of  Eire,  and  re- 
tain the  other  half  for  ourselves,"  said  Oisin.  They  accordingly 
did  so  :  but  it  happened  that,  in  the  portion  of  the  house  that 
had  been  appropriated  to  the  use  of  the  son  of  the  king  of 
Eire,  two  Tuatha  Dedanans,  Eailbhe  Mor,  son  of  Domhnall, 
and  Eailbhe  Beag,  son  of  Domhnall,  were  then  seated.  These 
declared  that  that  portion  of  the  house  had  been  given  up, 
merely  because  they  themselves  happened  to  have  been  seated 
there.  "  How  grievous  it  is/'  exclaimed  Eailbhe  Beag,  "  that 
we  are  made  to  bear  so  deep  an  insult  and  mark  of  disrespect 
this  night ;  but  it  is  the  wish  of  Eionn  to  deal  more  severely 
with  us,  while  the  same  Eionn  possesses  the  woman  who  had 
been  espoused  to  the  third  best  man  of  all  the  Tuatha  Dedanans, 
even  against  the  will  of  her  father  and  of  her  mother."  These 
two  men,  however,  took  their  departure  by  the  early  dawn  of 
the  next  morning,  and  went  to  Eionnbharr  of  Magh  Eeabhail, 
and  informed  him  of  all  the  insults  and  indignities  which  Eionn 
and  the  Eenians  of  Eire  intended  to  offer  to  the  Tuatha  Deda- 
nans. 

As  for  Eionnbharr  of  Magh  Eeabhail ;  he  despatched  mes- 
sengers to  the  different  parts  of  Eire,  to  summon  the  Tuatha 
Dedanans  from  all  quarters,  for  Eionnbharr  was  king  over  them. 
Six  large  well  appointed  battalions,  from  all  parts,  assembled 
on  the  margin  of  Loch  Dearg-dheirc  within  the  space  of  a  month. 
This  muster  took  place  upon  the  very  day  that  Conan  had  the 
wedding  feast  ready  for  Eionn  and  the  Eenians.  He  (Conan) 
sent  Soistreach,  his  own  female  courier,  to  Teamhair  Luachra, 
to  invite  Eionn  and  the  Eenians.  When  she  had  delivered  her 
message  to  Eionn,  she  returned  back  by  Loch  Dearg-dheirc, 

admission  of  some  of  his  mortal  neighbours  ;  all  these  become  xít^  or 
long-livers. 


]SS 

<t)c]fi5  *^Dheific,  50  b-^ACAbAji  Cuaca  'De  ^DAT)Ai)t)  ] ;  a5A|* 
t>o  cuA]6  }-i\ilbo  BeA5  lOijA  biAi3  A5  K^^^^il  I'^oaIa 
iiA|ce  :  5u|t  luijjf  y\  60  ■^\i\\  a  b-pocA]|i  PblTJij  rh^c  CútÍ7AiU 
bo  b]  x\-  í^ó  il'|A):itAi6  pAjlbe  BeA5  civ  ftAib  plot)!),  ijó 
civ  Ijon  bo  bivbAjx  At)  pAjtuAb  ?  "  ^  b-'CcArbAjit  txiACHA 
b'iíívjbAr  6/'  A|i  ]•],  "  A5Af  beic  3-céAb  a  cuibeAcc<v"  AjAf 
no  ini)ir  5ufi  Ab  A  b-pocA]|i  CboT)X\]u  Cbjr)!)  SbliM^^*^  ^o 
b]  piour)  jte  beic  at)  o|8ce  |']u.  Slji  iia  cloj*  |*ii)  bo  pbiv]!- 
be,  CU5  b&|it7  clo]6irb  bo'r)  beATj-eAcUc,  5u|i  ^CAitn  A^t 
A  60  },  juft  CA|i|tAii75  curt)  i)A  b-<^bAUi)  í>  5»!*  ^b  ^Diib- 
50ATt|tcAC  A]i)irD  At)  c-f|toéA  I'll)  6  fo]t)  a  le|c. 

Í)aI<V    "pbltJt)  ;     5lltA1f|0|*    A    T)-b]A|5     1)A     beAtJ-CAClAléo, 

A5A|*  bA  ]Ab  ClAt}t)A  ^ó]]ii)e  líoi)  }]'  tt)ó  bo  b]  a  i^-írAniiAb 
ifor)  Alt)  T]t) :  ó\yi  vi]  jtAib  ]Ot)A  ti-eA^ttJA]]*  ai)i),  acc  "pioou, 
CAoilce^  2t)Ac  At)  Kejce,  6oca8  2t)ó|i  tt)AC  Lu5A]6,  S5olb- 
fjeitje  tt)AC  0]T]t),  A^Af  CaoI  C]tó6A  ó  NeAtb<>it;i);  50 
T)-búbA]|tc  Tioi)i)  ite  ^o^lí  "<^  3boT^V  A|i  ^é,  "t)ío]t  ^Ab 
uArnAi;  niv  irrj-OAslA  rt)&  A]|t  bAjt)]f  ]t]Atb  ]to|rbo  At;o]|*; 
A^Aj*  Tt)&  A|ft  beA5ivt)  bu)6i;e;  ó||i  ACív  p(\i|Tit)C  dac  ttjAic 
b'A  ceAfbivt)A6  OArrj,  eAÓot),  'Cuaca  ^Do  'DAtjAtji)  bo  có^bívil 
bfiin5r)e  o\\rr),  a^ai*  xx)0  Vi)\.i}\)z-\yi  bo  it)<v|ibA6."  "2l|j)]C- 
poAb|'<x  cú  oniiA  bo'i)  co]t  yo,"  a|i  3<3llj  "  ^ó^X  '^131^ 
]ieoit)pA  ^vjt  X]^  50  ceAC  CboDívp) ;  juji  cu]|t  Coi;i\i)  |:i\]lco 

]l]U,  A^A]*  bo  b-&A3flA  CCAC  T)-oIa  ACO,  A3A|*  bo  b]  plOUD 
A  loAb<\6  tiiti-Ai)  Ai)t),  A3Af  3oU  b'A  Oe]]*,  A3A]*  p]i)t)bcilb 
b'A  cl]  ;  A3A}*  cCic  A  3-co|CC]t)i)e  ^otjA  t}-]Ot)Ab  c]i)t)ce  fé]i) 

Ó  I*]  I)  AnjAC. 

«DaIa  pbl01)t)bAll  ^l)A|3b  pCAbAjl,  A3AI-  TuACA  'Dc  'Da- 

t)Ai)i;,  bo  cunicAbAit  At)  "  }'él5  ^iaÓa"'  ioit)pA,  A3Aj*  ]t<vt)- 

1  Xc\i  T^iAb,  magic  covcring.  Dr.  O'Donovau  remarking  on  a  passapre 
in  the  MUctUaiiy  of  the  Celtic  Society,  that  "  Duulaivg  of  Dun-na- 
bh-Jcarta" — Dunlaing  O'h-Artagain,  and  alludes  to  a  story  in  ancient 
accounts  of  the  Battle  of  Cluan-tarbh  (C'lontarf)  fought  on  Good  Friday, 
A  U.  1014.  ill  which  Oeibhill  (now  Eevil)  of  Craigliath,  the  familiar 
sprite  of  Dal-Cais,  is  said  to  have  enveloped  in  a  magical  cloud  Dunlaing 


189 

and  tlie  Tuatlia  Dedaiians  having  seen  her  pass^  Failbhe  Beag 
followed  her,  to  ask  her  the  news.  She  informed  liiui  that  she 
had  been  before  Fionn  Mac  Cumhaill.  Failblic  Beag  asked 
her  where  Fionn  then  was,  and  how  many  men  he  had  ^vil,h 
him.  "  I  left  hiin  at  Teamhair  Luachra,  and  ten  hundred  is 
the  number  of  his  companions/'  answered  she.  She  also  told 
him  that  Fionn  was  to  spend  that  night  with  Conau  of  Ceann 
Sleibhe.  When  Failbhe  heard  that,  he  struck  the  female 
courier  with  his  sword,  and  cut  her  in  two  :  he  then  dragged 
her  remains,  and  cast  them  into  the  (adjoining)  river.  Hence 
that  stream  is  called  Dubhghearthach  from  that  time  to  tlie 
present. 

As  regards  Fionn  ;  he  followed  the  female  courier,  aiid  tlie 
Clanna-Moirne  composed  the  majority  of  the  force  that  accom- 
panied him  on  the  occasion ;  for  there  were  none  left  to  supply 
their  i)lace,  except  Fionn  son  of  Caoilte,  Mac  Reitlie,  Eochadh 
M6r  son  of  Lughaidh,  Sgolb  Sgeine  son  of  Oisin,  and  Caol 
Crodha  from  Neamhaiun.  Fionn,  addressing  Goll,  taid, — 
"  0  Gull,  I  never  felt  misgiving  or  fear  on  the  occasion  of  at- 
toiding  any  M'cdding-feast  before  this;  my  forces  being  few  in 
number;  for  I  have  a  foreknowledge  that  evil  broods  over  me, 
namely,  that  the  Tuatha  Dedanans  are  about  to  raise  a  bndghean 
(quarrel)  against  me,  and  slaughter  ray  people."  "  1  will  de- 
fend you  against  their  attacks  on  this  occasion,"  said  Goll. 
They,  thereupon,  proceeded  forward  on  their  way  to  the  house 
of  Conan.  Conan  gave  tiiem  a  cordial  welcome,  and  they  were 
introduced  into  the  bancpicti ng  hall.  Fionn  occupied  the 
couch  next  to  tlie  door,  Goll  sat  on  his  right,  and  Finudealbh 
on  his  left  hand,  witile  nil  the  others  assumed  the  places  they 
were  accustouied  to  occupy,  without  any  further  distinction 
being  made. 

With  respect  to  Fionnbharr  of  Magh  Feabhail  and  the 
TuathaDedanaas;  they  enveloped  themselves  in  the  Felyh  Fiadh, 

O'h-Artagain  (a  chief  liero  attendant  on  Murcliadh,  Brian  Borumha's  el- 
dest son),  to  prevent  him  from  joining  the  battle.     See  Annals  of  the 


100 

1T;t)]llce,  Aijt  i-'Aicce  bút)ACboi)ív]i)  CbiT)t)Sbl^lt>e,5Ai)  T1Ó5A, 
5AI)  ]XArÚ5A6,  5AU  ^'uiiteAC.  "  BeAj  Ajt  b-cAjjibe  a  bejc 
At)i)  yo,"  A|t  n^^>  "  ^"S^V  T^eiÓiT)  lA^Doe  obojll  A5  at)acaI 
y\)]t)V  0]i]iu]t)r)."  "  H]  Ai^AcpAÓ  "Soil  bo't)  COfl  yo  é,"  A|t 
6]ci:)e,  beAi)  bjiAO];  "  oijt  ceAl^pAbf-A  f]ot)r)  Att^Ac  l|on> 
Af  AT)  c]5  3iOT)i)  50  ir)o  TbA|c  A  cojnjeAb." 

3luA]^Í0f  fto^nípe  biot)!jfu]6e  A17  bA]le,  ajai*  C15  óf 
cotbA]|i  pblDt)  bo'n  leic  Anju^c.  "  C]a  ríx  Ai|t  njo  coTbAijt  ?" 
A|i  rí,  "^)ein  T^^IU,"  A]i  'plODD,  "^eAfA  i)AC  piilitj^ib 
|rio|i    Iaoc    Oftc/'    A|i    |*í,    "  ceACC    attjac    jat;)    fru||xeAC." 

Four  Masters,  Ed.  J.O'D.,  A.D.  1013,  p.  778,  n.,  and  Ware's  Antiqui- 
ties of  Ireland,  cli.  xxiv.  at  the  year  1014.  "The  place  called  Dun-na- 
hh-fearta  in  the  text  is  probably  Dun-feart,  alias  Danesfort  in  the  county 
of  Kilkenny,  (situated  about  four  miles  from  the  town,  and  on  the 
old  road  to  Waterford),  where  it  is  probable  Dunlaing  was  fostered." 
Now  the  real  case  is  not  that  it  was  a  "  magical  cloud"  in  which  Aeibheal 
of  Carriglea  enveloped  her  favorite,  but  a  sort  of  magical,  or  druid- 
ical  garment,  caX\eá  Feidh  Fiadh,  as  is  expressly  mentioned  in  tlie  an- 
cient account  of  the  Battle  of  Clontarf,  alluded  to  above ;  for  when  his 
patron  and  friend  Murchadh,  could  not  see  liim,  though  lie  recognised 
the  voice  of  his  faithful  adherent,  he  exclaimed — "  I  know  the  voice  of 
Dunlaing  O'h-Artagain,  and  feel  the  effect  of  his  strokes,  but  cannot  see 
him."  "  It  would  be  a  disgrace,"  replied  Dunlaing,  "  if  I  were  to  con- 
ceal myself  from  my  friend,"  at  the  same  time  casting  his  magical  gar- 
ment from  his  shoulders,  and  thereby  rendering  himself  visible  to  Mur- 
chadh. Hence  the  ^ep  VJ*^6  was  not  a  magical  cloud,  but  a  druidical 
garment  which  rendered  the  wearer  invisible.  It  is  true  that  his  familiar 
sprite  rendered  Eoghan  Mor  (Eugene  the  Great)  and  his  people  invisible, 
but  if  it  were  a  magical  cloud  it  would  have  been  designated  ceo  bfto|ó. 
eAcc,  (druidical  or  magical  mist)  not  ve|ó  f|aó.  There  are  reasons  for 
believing  that  the  name  pe|6  pjAóis  of  Christian  origin,  because  we  reiid 
in  the  ]n)n)\.\]\)  P.\ccha]cc  (Hymn  of  Patrick)  when  he  was  on  his  journey 
to  visit  Laeghaire  at  Tara,  that  the  druids  advised  the  monarch  to  place 
armed  men  in  ambuscade  to  prevent  his  reaching  the  royal  palace  at 
Tara,  and  probably  to  slay  him  and  liis  companions.  St.  Patrick,  on 
that  occasion,  composed  his  celebrated  Hymn,  which  is  called  rejo  X]-\i, 
pru])iibly  because  the  saint  and  his  followers  appeared  to  his  enemies  in 
tile  shape  of  deer,  and  youn;;  8t.  IJenignus,  or  Uoitjji),  in  tliat  of  a  fawn, 


191 

and  marched  forward  invisibly,  powerfully,  with  steadiness, 
and  without  delay — none  contending  for  precedence — in  six- 
teen armed,  well-appointed,  well-marshalled  battalions,  to  the 
plain  opposite  the  house  of  Conan  of  Ceann-Sleibhe.  "  It  is 
little  use  for  us  to  be  here,"  said  they,  "  since  the  service  of 
the  sword  of  Goll  is  engaged  in  the  defence  of  Tionn  against 
us."  "Goll  shall  not  protect  him  on  this  occasion,"  said 
Eithne  the  druidess,  "  for  I  will  beguile  Fionn  out  of  the  liousc, 
despite  of  the  vigilant  care  that  is  kept  over  him." 

She  proceeded  on  to  the  town  (house),  and  stood  opposite 
to  Fionn  on  the  outside.  "  Who  is  he  that  is  before  my  face  ?" 
asked  she.  "  It  is  I  myself,"  responded  Fionn.  "  The  (jennii 
by  which  a  true  hero  never  sufi'ered  himself  to  be  bound  \w 

as  appears  from  the  following  argument  to  that  Hymn  in  the  Book  of 
Lismore,  a  copy  of  which  is  now  in  the  Library  of  the  Royal  Irish  Aca- 
demy : — "  p«.^ctiA|c  (50  tioTje  iot)  injtput)  \o.  It)  ArtjreiTi  loe5Ait^e  njeic  Méil 
T»l5i)e6.  'Fac  a  OetjiijA  \).  bjA  bi&er)  co  t)A[n)At)chAib  Art  T)Ain)Oib  it;  bAjr  \w 
bACATi  it)  ecAtti)]»  Att  t)A  clejttclieib.  Ocur  If  Ujiiecb  birr©  WO  \\\\  \)\\\)- 
&e5A|l  cuiftp  ocur  Ai)njA  ATI  oenjtjA|b  ocuf  &U]ij]b  ocur&UAlcblb.  Cecl)  &u]t)e 
i)or  5ebA  cec\)  &]a  co  i)-]t)i)icl)e]r)  leif  ]  ij.&ia  t)i  ctjAitiirrec  oenjt)*  ^ni  * 
5t)uir.  bib  b|nt)  bo  ATI  CQ:c\)  peinj  ocur  ^oyyn)^z.  bib  conjijA  be  rni  biAtjbAV. 
bib  luTtech  biA  Amrji^lf?  \(^V-  t^a  ecrecbc  Pactiaicc  \ío  cIjap  ro  10  cai)  bo 
TiACA  t)A  T)ecATiT)Alf ]  ATt  a  cl)|i)i)  o  Leo5Aitie,  i)a  bi5reb  ho  y\\^ti  C\)\\ii\on)<i 
CO  TenjTXAJS ;  cot)|b  AtioriO  ac  cberr^  ri-'^^'liicbc  oa  b-ecAt\tjAibe  coiijcir 
Ai5eAlcA,  ocur  lAttPoe  l')A  T)-"!*!^  .i.  betjei).  Ocur  t^ecl)  í^iAbA  a  ))AiotT)," 
i.e.  Patrick  composed  this  Hymn.  It  was  during  the  time  of  Laeghaire 
son  of  Niall  he  composed  it.  The  reason  he  had  for  composing  it  was, 
that  it  would  be  a  protection  to  both  himself  and  the  monks  against  the 
deadly  enemies  that  lay  in  ambuscade  for  the  clergy.  And  this  hymn  is 
an  armour  for  the  protection  of  both  body  and  soul  against  demons, 
men,  and  habitual  vices.  Every  person  who  repeats  it  each  day,  having 
all  his  mind  on  God,  shall  not  be  troubled  by  demons  appearing  before 
him  ;  it  shall  protect  him  from  poison  and  malice.  It  shall  be  a  protec- 
tion to  him  from  sudden  death ;  it  shall  be  an  armour  to  his  soul  after 
death.  Patrick  composed  this  hymn  at  the  time  when  Laeghaire  x>lotted 
his  destruction,  so  that  he  might  not  come  to  propagate  the  faith  at  Te- 
mora  (Tara)  ;  on  which  occasion  it  appeared,  to  those  that  lay  in  am- 
bush, that  they  were  wild  deer,  having  a  fawn  alter  them,  that  is,  Be- 
nen  (Benignus).     And  Fcth  Fiadfta  is  the  name  (of  the  Hymn). 


]92 
^5<^r  5^'?*  ion)ó<x  buiue  bo  h]  a  fcj^,  uio[i  Ajms  Aop  aco 

plOUU    A5    bul    AtT)AC    ACC    CAO|lce    ATbi^Jl);    AJAf    CJ5]8    50 

b-6]ci;e  beAi)  &|tAoi.'  )r  í:ív'i;  ah}  fiy  bo  ló|5|obAít  "Cua- 
CA  'De  í)Ai)At)tí  caIca  b'éAi;uib  búbA  50  u-5obAib  ciuiKJje 
■^ox)  but);  5U]t  luijeAbAji  Ai|t  uccAjb  A5Af  Aijt  b|iuii)i;ib 
civic;  A5Af  bo  5AbAbAii  A5^  lofjA  A5Ar  ATjív  l<xi;-Tbllle ; 
lot)uf  sujt  ceiceAbAit  n)]c  A5Af  nn;^  ASAf  njioij-ÓAO]pe  atj 
bA]le  Aj*  At)  bur)  AitjAC  aji  5AC  Icac  :  juft  bí\CAÓ  beAr)  Cbo- 
i)iv]i)  (CAt)Ar)A  A  b-AiDiiT»)  l*Ai)  Abui^r)  leAc  Arnujc  bo'o 
bAjle.  ]y  Ai)t)  T*I»)  <^  biibAijic  6fct;e,  beAU  b|iAO|,  le  "Fioi/U, 
có]n)-'\i]i  lé] -f^^x) ;  "  ó\]i  ]y  bo  co]rb-itic  lion?  bo  joiji^Ai- 
An^AC  CÚ/'  A]t  I-].  "  Ca  ]:A]b  ?"  A|i  P'iotjt).  "  O  ^\)C]]\e 
bi\  "Cboitc^  A  t;]Afi,  50  ])-%t-n)d\i^  VO]V/'  <^f^  TI-  *t>o  inijeAO 
ArblA  T*]!)  leo  50  b-civii)i6  pioi)i)  jiojrt^pe  ca|i  At)  ivc,  A5Af 
CAO]lce  iot)A  6|A]5 ;  aja]*  bo  b]  "p|oi)i)  A5  5|teAfAcc  Cb^- 
oilce.  50  T)-biibA]]ic,  "  jf  A6r)iV|i  8h]c,  a  CbAO]lce,  rT)é]b  bo 
|iACA  AjAf  bo  luAÓA]]*  A5AI'  A01)  beAt)  A5  bill  bjoc/'     L]I)- 

5IOr  CAOllce  A|l  rit»  ;  50  fe-CU5  611x516  ADfoCAIJl  A|X  pi^p;  50 
b-CU5  A  ÓIXOTT)''  A  1)-llCC  DA  CAlUl5e  A5  'Do|IlO  Al)  r-SeAi}Aic 

ceAj*,  A5A1*  b'ion)pui5  umce  50  b-cu3  h&]n)  cloióirb  pó  tjA 

njOAÓoi)  50    ij-beAjxixtjA   bíi  o]xbíi)  ceA|xcA    coibcixoiijA    6], 

''Boifx  buAÓ  AjAf  beAi^tjACC,  A  Cb<voilce/^  Aix  p|or)t),  "ó]]i 

'  C|ctje  boAi)-6ftoj.  Eilhne  the  druidess.  There  cau  be  little  doubt 
that  leiiiiilcs  were  consecrated  to  religion  bythedruids;  bcAtj  snoj,  in 
the  present  common  acceptation  of  the  word,  means  a  sorceress,  a  witch ; 
hut  we  are  led  to  believe  that  in  the  olden  time,  females  were  dedicated 
to  the  service  of  the  pagan  deities,  tlic  principal  of  which  were  fire  and 
water.  The  two  sisters  Aine  and  Milucradli,  were  representatives  of 
these  elements,  and  the  choice  made  by  Fionn,  on  the  occasion  of  the 
sisters  coming  to  pay  their  addresses  to  him,  clearly  shows  that  he  pre- 
ferred the  worship  of  fire  to  that  of  water,  that  is,  that  he  remained  a 
Baalite  in  preference  to  becoming  a  Lirite,  or  Tlca-u^ii»  worshipper.  The 
strange  story  of  the  swans  of  Lir  reflects  some  light  on  the  various  dedi- 
cations used  by  the  Irisli  pagans  ;  and  it  is  probable  tliat  very  violent 
cuntenlioHS  were  once  carried  on  in  Ireland  liy  tiie  pMrt.'sans  of  tlie  rival 


19.3 

upon  you,  unless  you  come  outside  without  delay,"  said  ^\ic. 
Eioun  did  not  suffer  the  //easa  to  hang  over  him,  but  walked 
out  without  delay ;  and,  though  there  were  many  persons  in- 
side, none  of  them  noticed  Fionn  leaving  the  house,  except 
Caoilte  alone.  He  walked  up  to  Eithne  the  druidess.  At  that 
same  time  the  Tuatha  Dedanans  let  fly  a  flock  of  dark  birds 
with  fiery  beaks  to  the  Dun  (of  Conan)  ;  and  these  (birds) 
perched  on  the  chests  and  bosoms  of  all  the  people  (within), 
and  scorched  and  tormented  them  to  such  a  degree,  that  the 
young  lads,  the  women  and  the  children  belonging  to  the  place 
betook  themselves  to  flight  from  the  Dun  in  all  directions,  and 
the  wife  of  Conan,  whose  name  was  Canana,  was  drowned  in 
the  river  outside  the  town.  Eithne,  the  druidess,  then  chal- 
lenged Fionn  to  run  a  race  with  her,  "for,"  said  she,  "  it  was 
for  the  purpose  of  running  a  race  with  you  I  called  you  out." 
"  "What  shall  be  the  distance  ?"  asked  Fionn.  "From  Doire- 
da-thorc  in  the  west,  to  Ath-mor  in  the  east,"  said  she.  They 
arranged  the  matter  so ;  but  Fionn  got  across  the  Ath  (ford) 
before  her,  while,  in  the  meantime,  Caoilte  was  following  him. 
Fionn  began  to  urge  on  C.ioilte,  saying,  "  you  ought  to  be 
ashamed  of  your  running  and  of  your  (small)  amount  of  swift- 
ness ;  since  a  woman  is  able  to  leave  you  behind."  Caoilte, 
thereupon  sprang  forward,  and,  making  a  very  distressing 
bound,  struck  his  shoulders  against  the  hag's  chest,  at  Doire-an- 
t-Seanaich  in  the  south ;  and  then,  having  turned  about,  he 
made  a  slash  of  his  sword  at  her  in  the  waist,  so  that  he  di- 
vided her  into  two  equal  parts. 

"  Win    victory    and    blessings,    O    Caoilte,"     exclaiaied 

religions,  who  were  accustomed  to  meet  and  decide  their  quarrels  at 
"  iiz  At)  córijTVAic,"  the  place  set  apart  for  battle.  The  Samhaisys  of  Glen 
Samhaisg,  near  Sliabh  Guillen,  were  those  dedicated  to  fire  worship, 
while  the  caU  or  swans  were  dedicated  to  tm  or  ntxru^ut  worship. 

*  t>0||te-t)*-ioTtc,  i.e.  The  forest  of  the  two  wild  boars. 
3  ni  n)ótx,  i.e.  The  great  ford. 

*  C^tioTt).     That  is,  got  his  back  to  her  face  ;  got  before  iier. 


194 
5é  ]0rD8A  bii]lle  n)A]i  cu5A]f  jiiAm,   v]0]i  hiiA]\]y  buiUe  i|* 

peíV|tyt/'       CjOÓ    CJtíVCC,    |tíXT)5A&A|l    CAJl    A    1)Alf  50  ^ACA  At) 

bA]le,  50  b-puAitA&A|t  T^UACA  <^De  í)AT)Ar)í)  lotjA  n)-byiO]i) 
^íoit-co]itci5ce  A|i  A  5-C|0w  1A]t  3-cu]|i  a  b-Tei5  }-iaóa 
8íob.      "  't>d]t  l]otr),  a  CbAO]lce,"   A|t  "piotji),   "  50  &-c^ii- 

lAníAlít  A|t    líVjt    Ajl    T)Ari)Ab    |*AI)  í)Út)  fO,"    A5Af    CUl|Xlb,    A^t 

X]V>  A  T)-b|iort)AT)r)A  ]te  cé]le,  A5Af  cttA]t5i)Aib  cSsc  lAb  T:oft 
5AC  leAc :  5u|t  bA^tjeAbAit  ofijA  eASComUi^t)  a]*  pbior)!) : 
5U|i  clof  bo  3boU  i*Tt;,   50  tj-búbAi|ic,   "  rftuA^  f|i),   ói|i  bo 

CeAl5AbATt  "CUACA  í)e  t)AI)AUI)  )-]OUl)  A^Af  CAOilce  |tlll 
ATTjAC  uA]t;T).  A5Af  é|)i5ió  50  luATC  b'A  5-CAbAlfl."  Q>]]l-^]b 
A|v  f|T),  ]o\)A  n)-h]iO]v^)  í\i5  A5Af  ío|i50)le,  aja^  Coi)ívi) 
Cbpjn  Sblé^llJe  A5A|*  A  cIaoi?  Tt7A]ci)e  b'A  5-coi)5t)Arb  A^ft  ai) 
b-pAiéce  An)AC  ;  acc  ceAT)i)A,  bo  peA|i5AÓ  At)  c-íxixb  rbileAÓ 
uAibfteAC  TOi;t)f  A]6ceAC,  a5ai*  ai;  Iaoc  leAbAjicA  loii'^ijeAC, 

A5Af  Al)  CO|Xt)A  UACrbA|t  Í0t)5A1)CAC,  A5Af  AT)  biqr)i)e  bÍAÓ- 
T15AJ)I)AC      bo|lb-CfieAfAC,     éAÓOIJ,      Ooll     TT)AC    2t)Ól|tl)t^     n)ic 

^b^n^AlÓ  5bliii)-8uib,  rbic  2I06  í)buAi)Ai6,  it)|c  2I06  Cb|t»U 
Cblí^lft,  Tt)ic  Cooii]ll,  n)\c  SA]6b|ie,  tt)]C  Ccac,  tí)1C^21)A5ac, 
iV]C  CA]|tb|te  CblW-bei]t5,  rt)]C  |t]5  Coijíjacc  ;  Arbu]!  bA 
|té]rniofA  ív|tb-rbi|t  a  |t&|n),  At)  cat)  bo  cjiotT)  pA't)  S-ca^c  a 
5-cjt]oi4AC  A  cixóiT)-f5&ice ;  511ft  c|ieA^5AiTi  ciieoiT)  i)a 
b-cAO||'eAc;  5U|i  cio]t|ibA  uA)fle 't)A  t)-be||te,  A5AI*  ju]! 
n)A6n)A8  TDAfce  ]OI)a  njeAÓOT) ;  ]OT)uf  5U|i  rt)]0T)Ai6cAÓ  A5A|* 
5u|i  cnAiplí5eA6  co^-a  A-^<sy  c)i)i)-imiUAi5  ]i]]',  ^ufi  itivit)i6  at) 

riVlT|-A  pOIlftATJCA,  éAÓOl),  "P|Ot)T)bíV|l|l  2t)í\]5b  'peAbAfl,  A5Ar 
CllAl]t5T)]b    A    CeflOj    5U|l  bA  ]lACpCA  ]tO  CeAf^A^Óce  1)A  ]tÍ5- 

n)ilió;  A5A}*  5U|t  bA  CAob-leAbAftcA,  zí!^]iv-]ií'j;\)e  \)a  t]ú^]\)- 
f]fi  ó't)  b-cytOTt)-5leó  ]*ft);  a^A]*  bA  &  c|iioc  a  t)-]ti)|ioa]-í\ii) 

5Uft  CltlC  'pIOI)I)bA)t|l  2t)A]5b  pCAbAjl  bo  b^)Tt)IOt)t)A]b  5IAC- 

U]bijt  5bó)ll ;  AjAj-  tjo  cu]c  P;\ilbe  le  CAO|lce.  S^iúcaj-  ai) 
Iaoc  lé]n)ior)i)AC  Iuac-50I)ac,  Caóoi),   Goóaó  2t)ó|v  n)AC  Lú- 

5A165     AJAf     |IÓ   JAb    A3    I'lAbA     DA    I'luA^A,    50    |1^\II)0a8    AI) 


193 

Fionn,  "  for,  though  many  is  the  good  blow  you  luive 
struck  in  your  time,  you  never  dealt  a  better  one  than 
that."  They  then  returned  back  to  the  green  before  the 
town,  where  they  found  the  Tuatha  Dedanans,  drawn  up 
in  martial  order  before  them,  after  having  thrown  off  their 
Feigh  Fiadha.  "  It  seems  to  me,  0  Caoilte,"  said  Fionn,  "  that 
we  have  fallen  into  the  thick  of  our  enemies  in  this  Dun." 
They,  thereupon,  turned  back  to  back,  and  every  warrior  on 
all  sides  attacked  them,  so  that  groans  of  weakness  from  the 
unequal  contest  were  wrung  from  Fionn.  GoU,  having  heard 
them,  exclaimed,  "It  is  a  sorrowful  case,  for  the  Tuatha 
Dedanans  have  enticed  Fionn  and  Caoilte  away  from  us ;  let 
us  arise  with  speed  to  their  help."  They,  thereupon,  rushed 
out  upon  the  green  in  a  dense  body,  determined  upon  the  per- 
formance of  great  feats  and  carnage,  supported  by  Conan  of 
Ceann  Sleibhe  and  his  sons.  But  now  that  proud,  aggressive, 
chieftain  of  champions,  the  body-mangling  fiery  hero,  the  ter- 
rible loud  thunderer,  and  the  fresh  blooming  branch  invincible 
in  battle,  GoU  son  of  Moirne,  son  of  Garraidh  Glundubh,  son 
of  Aodh  Dánaidh,  son  of  Aodh  Ceannclilair,son  of  Conall,son 
of  Saidhbhre,son  of  Ceat  mac  Maghach,  son  of  Cairbre  Ceann- 
dearg,  son  of  the  king  of  Connacht,  became  enraged  ;  like  a 
towering  mountain  under  his  grey  shield  was  he  in  battle ! 
He  laid  prostrate  the  bravest  of  their  leaders,  he  mangled  the 
bodies  of  their  nobles,  and  burst  through  the  ranks  of  their 
chieftains;  he  shortened  limbs  and  delved  into  skulls,  until  he 
reached  their  pillar  of  support,  Fionnbharr  of  Magh  Feabhail 
himself.  They  commenced  to  attack  one  another,  until  both 
the  royal  champions  were  mangled  and  disfigured,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  hard  struggle  which  they  maintained.  The 
result  of  the  combat  was,  that  Fionnbharr  of  Magh  Feabhail 
fell  by  the  heavy,  hard-dealt  strokes  of  GoU.  Failbhe  fell  by 
the  hand  of  CaoUte.  Eochadh  Mor  son  of  Lughaidh,  the  nimble 
hero  of  the  quickly-dealt  strokes,  sprang  into  the  midst  of  the 


VOA|i  píocTÍ)<\]i  |:0|i|iMjCv\,  í»^\boi),  ^Doi)i)-UAcb<.\,  ^uyi  cuah- 
50]T;eA&A|t  A  ce^le,  A5Af  bob'  é  |:ói|iceAi)i}  a  b-peAÓiDA,  ]<\b 
A  fiAoi)  bo  tii]r]xr)  botji)  ]ic  boT)i},  a5A|-  b&Al  jte  béAl,  A|t  At) 
livcA^fi  x-\\j;  A5AT  ]tó  cujc  Kacca  í)eA|t5  |:ó't)  ]mAC.\fi 
5-céA&i?A    ^te   S5olb-í-5e]t)c    wsc  0]Y]t),    AjAf    co|tc|u\6 

FócbíM)  |té  OAft|tAlÓ  3l"1?Í5"^-       't^O  ruiCIObAlt  AT)  &A  S^Ajl 

|ie  cé]le;  co|tcitOi.6  1)A  c|t]  'DoTT)r)s\]U  |ve  Coi)í\i)  21)aoI  n)AC 

21)0)111)6   10t)A  AOt)Afi;    ASAf  bO  CUJClObAft   AI)    b'A  Cf)Aiiib|ie 

|te  Couat)  CblDi)  Sblé|be  a5A|-  le  i)a  ihac  ;  acc  céAt)i)A,  ir 
ceAftc  CU5A6  A  i)-6ifiii)i)  jiiATt)  cAic  i|-  ]:ei\]\]i  CU5A6  ijív  ad 
CA]t  i*]u ;  ó|ti  r)]0]i  rt)iAt)  AjAj*  !)íoit  n)Aife  le  ccACCAft  bo't) 
b^  tt^'T^i?  1*1'^  ce^be  i)ív  ceicc  aj*  ai)  Uxcahi  caca  ioi)Afi  ]oi)i)- 
l'iii5eAbA]t  A  cé|le  ;  ó]]i  bA  ^Ab  bív  ]toit)t)  bA  cftuAÓ-coii)- 

lAI)I)Al6e  1*AT)  C|tU1T)T)e  ceACA|l&A  lAb,    éA8ot),  'p|Al)I)A  peAít- 

ÓACA  i:u|lceACA  ipo]i]iM)tA  ')^])]\)r),  A5Af  "CuACA  b6ib-;^U\i) 
bAc-ívili)e  'lDé  Í)ai)ai)1);  a3ai*  t|'  beA5  i)a|i  cii]C]obA|i  ujle 

A|vl<\CA]It   AT)  CACA  ]*]  r). 

2lcc  CéAl)T)A,    I)ÍO]l  C]A1)  50  bpACAbAjl  CÚCA  AI)  cuib  e|le 

b"pb1<^W<^lb  "pblU')  1)^  l^^l^  -A')  VAHfiAb ;  loi)U|',  A|i  a 
b-i:A]criT)  bo  O)»^'^^^  ^t)*^  Oat)aiji),  Tjufr  JAb  |-|Ab  |ió|it)  TT)Ab- 
it)a6  A5A|*  ccice  aji  ^-cufx  ai)  }-oi5  "piAÓ  ]oi)a  b-c|tT)pcioll: 

5U]t  CU|C|ObA]t  CAli*?  A5A(*  CAO|b-i;éAlA  A|l  }-bloi)i)  V^]^> 
A5A1*  A|i  AT)  n)é|b  bo  b]  ai)  frAmiAb  i'ai)  5-CAic,  ó  iorT)Ab 
ijA  b-j^I^S^^l^^^i  ■<^5<^r  ^^  F'^IM^^T-'  i)A  i:eA6rT)A;  AjAf  bA  ioi;5- 
T)A  TT)ójt  le  b-On*ii)  TT)6ib  bjce  i)A  ]-^]t)i)e  ]*aj)  5-CAic  x]V  '• 
ó]]i  cívi)5AbA|t  be]c  ^-céAb  Iaoc  lc  I^iot)!),  50  ceAC  Cbo- 
T)^]i)  CblUi)  SblóllJtíj  •<^5<^r  ''^  cii]ciobA|i  iqle  lo  'CuAéA  <De 
Í)ai)A1)I),  acc  aoi)  céAb  ArT);\ii);  A^Af  iAb|-Ai)  f:ó|i)  oa|-!)A- 

CAC    C)IÓACCAC    CftÓl-le011)LC  ;    AJA]-    5AI)     Ai;    CU]b    Ojlo     bo 

ii)uii)ciii  C\)o\)i\]\)  Cbiuu  Sbl&lbe  b'cviiiioii).     'DaIa  "pbp'»; 

bO  lUlJAÓ  50  COAC  Cho\)!S]\)  AI|l  10I1)CA]1  ó,  ^'^^^T  '^*'  ^í 
CAOCjOOAf    A|l    1Í)Í0|*A    AI)t)    b'A     l(A5Af;    A^A]*    AI)    Z]li^t    h<\ 

lt)-IiT;coACCAC  í},  bo   ^liiAii*   ]:c]\)   a-a)-   a    1)0A3í\i)  'péii)i)e 


197 

enemy,  and  commenced  to  hew  down  and  carve  the  troops, 
until  he  met  tlie  furious  and  va'orous  man,  Donn  Uatlia:  they 
engaged  one  another;  and  the  end  of  the  conflict  was  that  both 
fell  foot  to  foot  and  face  to  face  on  the  spot.  Rachta  Dearg 
was  slain  in  the  conflict  by  Sgolb  Sgeine,  son  of  Oisin.  Eochan 
was  slain  by  Garraidh  Giuudubh,  and  the  two  Sgailsfell  by  the 
hands  of  each  other.  The  three  Domhnalls  were  slain  by  the 
hand  of  Conan  the  Bald,  son  of  Moirne,  without  any  assistance 
whatever.  The  two  Cairbres  were  slain  by  Conan  of  Ceann 
Sleibhe  and  his  son.  But  few  of  the  battles  of  Erin  were  ever 
fought  with  such  dreadful  determination  as  was  that  battle  ; 
for  no  individual  on  either  side  wished,  or  was  guilty  of  tlie 
dishonour,  to  yield  or  retreat  a  single  step,  from  the  spot  on 
which  he  engaged,  his  opponent;  for  they  were  the  two  most 
hard-fighting  bodies  of  men  to  be  found  in  any  of  the  four 
parts  of  the  globe,  namely,  the  manly,  bloody,  robust  I'enians 
of  Fionn,  and  the  white-toothed,  handsome  Tuatha  Dedanans ; 
and  they  both  were  nearly  annihilated  in  that  battle. 

Soon  after,  all  the  Fians  of  Erin  who  had  not  been  present 
were  seen  approaching  :  but  when  the  Tuatha  Dedanans  saw 
them,  having  enveloped  themselves  in  the  Feiyh  Fiadh,  they 
made  a  precipitate  retreat.  Fionn  himself  fell  into  fainting  fits, 
as  well  as  all  those  who  had  joined  him  in  the  battle,  in  con- 
sequence of  the  severity  of  the  conflict,  and  their  extraordinary 
exertions  in  it.  Oisin  wondered  greatly  at  the  large  number 
of  Fenians  who  fell  in  that  battle  :  for  ten  hundred  heroes  ac- 
companied Fionn  to  the  house  of  Conan  of  Ceann  Sleibhe,  and 
they  were  all  slain  by  the  Tuatha  Dedanans,  with  the  exception 
of  only  one  hundred  !  and  even  these  were  maimed,  wounded, 
or  weak  from  the  loss  of  blood  ;  not  enumerating  the  loss 
of  the  people  of  Conan  of  Ceann  Sleibhe.  With  regard  to 
Fionn  ;  he  was  carried  to  the  house  of  Conan,  where  he  re- 
mained a  month,  and  a  fortnight  over,  under  cure.  When  he 
was  able  to  remove  he,  and  the  few  Fenians  who  survived,  went 


198 

n)<\llle  ]t|f,     30    h"2llTT)Ult}    leAC^T)-TT)Ófl    l.A15eAT)T)  ;    A^Af    II* 

pAbA  bAbA|i  At)  2llri7uir)  a5A|*  a  5-c|téACCA  &'a  ^-cox)x^iiyA]l 

A  l)-0CAjtlu]5e  ful  A  b-fUA|tAbA]l  CÍXCA  1)A  l|A5Af. 


199 

to  the  great,  extensive  Almhuin  of  Leinster;  and  they  reiniiiiied 
a  long  time  in  Almhuin  before  their  wounds  were  perfectly 
healed. 


£_ 


INDEX 


Adam's  Peak,  31. 
Aedh  Oirfidh  (thelrishOrpheus),!?. 
Aedhgan  Ruadh,  166,  167. 
Aeibheal,  190,  n. 

Aengus  Og,   85,    122,  «.     Of  the 
Erugh,  his  legislator,  144,  144,  n., 
145. 
Agallamh  na  Seanoiridhe  (Dialogue 

of  the  Sages),  20,  29. 
Aine  (^the  moon).  17,  88,  117,  168, 

169,   192,  «. 
Airthera,  supernatural  properties  of 

its  wells,  156,  n. 
Albain  (Scotland),  112. 
Allen  (see  Almhuin),  136,  n. 
Almhuin.   134,   135,    136,    136,  n., 
137,  166,  167,  168,  169,  19S,  199. 
Great  banquet  at,  184,  185. 
Ancient  Irish  dress  described,  1 23, n. 
Marriage  rites,  166,  n.     Tobacco 
pipes,  where  discovered,  18. 
Annagasson  river,  168,  n. 
Anloich,  143,  n. 
Anubis  worshi}),  49,  50. 
Aodh  Ceannclilair,  194,  195.  i 

Aodh  Duanaidh,  194,  195. 
Aoibheall,  92,  92,  n.,  97,  98,  101, 

102. 
Aoife,  92,  92,  n.,  178,  179. 
Apparitions,  106. 
Arabians,  123,  n. 
Arasan,  37,  n. 
Ardee,  80. 
Ard-na-g-Cath,  59. 
Ardstraw,  parish  of,  62,  n. 
Armagh,  61,  n.,  156,n. 
Armagha,  156,  n. 
Armhach,  174,  175. 
Army  caterers,  177,  «• 
Artists,  141,  n. 

AschaiFenburgh,  palace  of,  106. 
Ath-Bo,  142,  142,  ra.,  143. 
Ath-Bolg,  182,  183. 
Atn-an-chomhraic,  193,  n. 
Athcliomairc,   176,  177.     Meaning 

of  the  word,  176,  n. 
Ath-CUath  (Ford  of  the  Hurdles). 
60,  n. 

U 


Ath-Cliath  Meaghraidh,  king  of, 

162,  162,  n.,  163. 
Athlone,  61,  n.,  142,«. 
Ath  Luain  (Athlone),  142,  143. 
Ath-mor,  192,  193. 
Atropos,  95,  97. 
Attacots,  21. 

B. 

Babel,  confusion  of,  27. 
Bacachs  (beggars),  103. 
Bachar,  182,  183. 
Badger  Cox,  or  Cocks,  44. 
Badhbh,    a  fairy    sprite,    SO,    110, 
112.    How  pronounced,  105,  107. 
Balar,  evil  eye  of,  32.     Hill  of,  25. 
Ballyshannon,  142,  143. 
Bann,  62. 
Bathing,  evil  consequences  of  170, 

171,  "^172,  173. 
Battle  of  Aughrim,  89.       Of  the 
Boyne,    89.       Of    Castleknock, 
130,  n.       Of  Clontarf,    51,    98, 
188,  n.     Of  Goria,    136,  n.      Of 
Movlena,   83.     Of  Moytuir,  23. 
Of  Ventry,  28. 
Bavaria,  Queen  Theresa  of,  105. 
Beal,  a  pagan  deity,  17. 
Bean   Sighes,    19,    37,    104,    109. 
Chair  of,   110.      Various  names 
of,    105. 
Beinn  Eadair  (now  Howth),  great 

leap  at,  33. 
Benen  (Benignus),  191,  n. 
Bessy  Bell,  57,  n. 
Biatachs,  their  occupation,  176,  n, 

111,  n. 
Binn-each-labhra,    black  steed  of, 

40.     Binn-each-Luna,  41. 
Binn  Eadair,  143,  n.      Estuary  of, 

142,  143. 
Binns  quoted,  64. 
Black  Joanna  of  the  Boyne,  19. 
Black  steed  of  Binn-each-labhra,  37. 
Boadicea,  76. 
Bo  Chaointe,  110. 
Boghmuin,  30,  32,   128,  n.,  142,«., 
174,  n.     Her  history,  31,  121,  n. 
Her  death,  128,  129,  130,  131. 


202 


Bolg,  fortress  of,  182,  n. 
Book  of  Lismore,  191,  n. 
Boroimhe,  Brian,  101. 
Boudhou,  temples  of,  122,  n. 
Boyne(the  river),  73,  79,  8'^,  174,n. 

Brugh  of,  144,  n.     Bruighean  of, 

1-22,  n.     Salmon  of,  133,  n. 
Brady,  Parson,  40. 
Brahmins,  1 15. 
Bran    (Fionn's  hound),   117,    168, 

169.     Eelationship  to  Fionn,  49. 

Lordship  of.  63.     Mor,  184,  185. 
Breasid,  50. 

Brian  Borumha,  189,  n. 
Brice  Bloiue,  cliasm  of,  117-    Great 

leap  of,  30,  128,  128,«.,  129. 
Brickey,  tlie  river,  128,  n. 
Britain,  26. 

Brooke,  (Miss),  50,  64. 
Brown,  110, 
Brownies,  92. 
Brugh  OS  Boinn,  144,  n. 
Bruighean,  meaning  of  the  word 

120,«. 
Bruighin  Cheise  Corainn.  120    w. 
Bryant  quoted,  28. 
Budh  Dearg,  his  exertions,  28. 
Bugha,  the  term  explained,  124,  n, 
Bull  deity,  48.     Worship,  48. 


C. 

Gael  Crodha,  166,  167. 

Caesar's   account  of  war  chariots, 

71. 
Caicer  the  druid,  149,  n. 
Cailleacli  Riorar  (watercress  hag), 

51,  64,  65,  149,  n.,  170,  n.     Her 

house,  64,  65. 
Cailte's  description  of  a  tiompan, 

49. 
Cairbre  Ceanndearg  (red-headed), 

194,  195. 
Cairbre  Lifeachair,  184,  185. 
Cairn  Feargall,  148,  149. 
Cairns  described,  64. 
Caislean  Ciuil,  (bagpipes),  48,  49. 
Cali,   115. 

Callan,  mountain  of,  116. 
Cambrensis'  account  of  a  man  and 

wife    transformed   into    wolves, 

159,  H. 
Cambrian  Journal  quoted,  41. 
Canana  (Conan's  wife),   192,  193. 


Canaan,  28. 

Canaanites,  26.     Expulsion  of,  by 

Josue,  164,  M. 
Caoilte,    140,   141,    142,    143,  148, 
149,  160,  161,  188,  189,  192,  193, 
194,  195. 
Caol  Crodha,  188,  189. 
Carbury,  barony  of,  61.  n. 
Carrick-lea,  97,  101,  102,  128,  n. 
Carriglea,  190,  n. 
Carruic-buidhe,  85. 
Carrill  Gas,  134,  135. 
Carthagenians,  26. 
Cas  Cuailgne,  160,  Í61. 
Cassia,  where  situated,   112. 
Castle  Ilackett.  186,  n. 
Castleknock,  battle  of,  130,  n. 
Castlelyons,  93. 
Castletown,  moat  of,  169,  n. 
Castletown-Bellew,  169,  n. 
Cat  of  Ath-Cliath    (Dublin),    60. 
Cat  avenged  upon  an  Ollamh,  36. 
Objects  of  terror,  34,  35. 
Cattle  preys,  76. 
Cavan,  19,  93. 

Ceannchlair,  Aodh,  194,  195. 
Ceann  Sleibhe,  29,  115,   117,   120, 
121,  122,  123,  184, 185,  188,  189, 
190,  191,  194,  195,  196,  197. 
Ceann  Sumaire,  122,  123,  123,  w. 
Cearmad  Milbheoil,  his  three  sons, 
47,  156,  157,  157,  w.     Celebrated 
musicians,  157,  n. 
Ceatach,  the  son  of  the  king  of  the 

Tulachs,  143,  n. 
Ceat  Mac  Maghach,  IQ-l,  195. 
Ceathoir,  156,  157. 
Ceithlinn  (the  druidess)  24,  25. 
Celtic  superstitions,  145,  n. 
Ceylon.  31,  122,  n. 
Chaldeans,  their  expulsion,  22. 
Charm  mongers,  115.  145,  n. 
Cliersonesus  Cimbrica,  22,  23. 
Chess-playing,  50. 
Ciar,  a  king  of  Kerry,  130,  h. 
Ciaran  (St.),  41,  42,  43,  44. 
Clanna  Deaghadh,  85. 
Clann  Dcirgthine,  83. 
Clanna  Moirne,  188,  189. 
Clanmorris,  barony  of,  134,  n. 
Clare,  31,  62,  04,  119,  n. 
Cliodhna  (the  fairy  queen), 97, 1 62,  n . 
Clobliarceann,  a  fairy  cobler,  19. 
Cloch  Beartha  (the  mangled  stone), 

84. 
Clogher,  oracle  of,  39. 


203 


Clogh-magh-righ-cat,  royal  cat  of, 
37.     Oracle  of,  38. 

Ciogh-oir,  37.     Oracles  of,  39. 

Clonmacnoise,  35,  36.  The  three 
wonders  of,  146,   147. 

Clonmel,  44. 

Clontarf,  battle  of,  1 90,  n. 

Clough,  37,  38. 

Cluan-tarbh  (Clontarf),  battle  of, 
when  fouglit,  ISA,  n. 

Cnobha,  cave  of,  37,  n. 

Coillen  Feidhlim,  160,  161. 

Coleraine,  126,  n. 

Coolavin,  barony  of,  61,  n. 

Columbkille,  97. 

Cooley,  169,  n.  Cattle  spoil  of,  48. 

Conall  Mac  Saidhbhre,  194,  195. 

Conaire,  son  of  Moghlamha,  85. 

Conan,  124,  125,  126,  127,  132,133, 
136,  137,  138,  139,  156,  157,  186, 
187,  192,  193.  OfCeaunSleibhe, 
30.  Burial  place  of,  63,  His 
banqueting  hall,  188,  189.  Fes- 
tivities at  the  house  of,  118,  119. 
Kills  the  two  Cairbres,  196,  197. 

Conan  Mael,  the  Fenian  Chief,  116. 
The  Bald,  his  death,  196,  197. 

Conan-cneis,  a  magic  girdle,  82, 
82,  n. 

Connacht  (Connaught),  35,  36,  77, 
80,93,  97,  98,  107,  12.3,  n,  136, 
n.,  186,  n.  Bull  of,  142,  n.  Fir- 
bolgian  tribes  of,  22. 

Conn  Cead  Chathach  (Conn  of  the 
Hundred  Battles),   184,  185. 

Conn-Eda,  story  of,  41. 

Connelloe,  barony  of,  118,  n. 

Corca-Duibhne,   1 18,  n. 

Corca  Guiny,  1 18,  ji. 

Corca  Laidhe,  1 29,  n. 

Cork,  93,  99,  182,  183. 

Corren,  120,  n.,  122,  n.,  123,  n. 

Cotter,  William  the  Red,  the  poet, 
93,  94,  95,  96. 

Craigliath,  188,  n. 

Creggan,  89.  Clay  of  the  church- 
yard  of,  a  fairy  song,  88,  89. 

Cregg  y  Bran,  63. 

Crithinn,  fountain  of,  virtue  of  its 
waters,  128,  129,  129,  n. 

Croker.  tlie  late  T.C.,  94. 

Crom,  the  deity  of  irrigation,  17- 
Of  the  Rock,  58,  5S,  n. 

Crouighlinnc,  earn  of,  182,  183. 

Crop,  a  fairy  chief,  93. 

Cros-shliabh,  65. 


Cruachan  Connacht,  142,  143. 

Cruit  or  harp,  48. 

Crumlin,  earn  of,  182,  n. 

Crymogai  quoted,  22. 

Cualan,  65.     The  dog  of,  50. 

Cuailgne,  16,  .39,  169,  169,  «.,  172, 
173. 

Cuailgnean  mountains,  61,  n. 

Cuallan  the  renowned,  50. 

Cuanda,  ilonn's  visit  to  the  house 
of,  47. 

Cuanna,  174,  175.  Hospitality  of 
his  house,  146,  147,  156,  157- 
Story  of,  174,  n. 

Cuillean,  39,  65,  169,  n.  Sighe  of. 
172,  173. 

CuchuUainn,  71,  HI,  lll,n.,  169.«. 
His  fight  with  Ferdia,  80,  81,  82. 
His  leap,  130,  n.  War  chariots 
of,  73,  77,  79.  Why  called  Cu- 
chuUainn, 50. 

Cuckoo,  voice  of  the,  138.  139. 

Curry,  Mr.  Eugene,  on  rat  charm- 
ing, 35. 


D. 

Dagdae,  a  pagan  deity,  17,  48.  The 

son  of,  47. 
Daire,  of  Sith-Daire,  130,  131. 
Dal-Cais,  familiar  sprite  of,  188,  n. 
Dalcassians,  98. 
Danat,  daughter  of  Daire,  31,  130, 

131. 
Danes,  92,  99.  Danish  invasion,  29. 
Danesfort,  190,  n 

Daol  (an  insect)  described,   124,  n. 
Daolgas,    his  story,    133,    n.,    134, 

135.  SonofDubhghoile,  136,  137. 
Dathcaoin,  144,  145, 
Deaghadh  Mac  Siun,  134,  n. 
Dealgan,  glen  of,  131,  n. 
Dealra  Dubh,  the  evil-minded,  32. 
DearaDubh,  134,  134,  n.,  135. 
Demons,  protection  from,   191,  n. 

Expulsion  of,  37. 
Derry,   97,   126,    n.      Remarkable 

laughter  in,  138,  138,  n.,  139. 
Diorraing,  a  Fenian  cliief,  29,  30, 

117,    124,    125,    126,    127,    172, 

173,  176,  177,  184,  185.     Son  of 

Domhar  Damhaidh,  120,  120,«., 

121,  122,  123. 
Divorce  practised    by  the  ancient 

Irish,  166,  «.,   167,  n. 
Dog-worship,  50. 


204 


Doilbh,  a  fairy  princess,  8?. 
l)oire-an-t-Suanainn,  192,  193. 
I)oire-da-tliorc,  192,  193,  193,  n. 
Uonait,  132,  133. 
Donamine,  122.  n. 
Donchuan,  Conuing  son  of,  101. 
Donn  Cuailgne,  48,  76,  142,  ji. 
Donn  Firinn,  93. 
Douu  Uatha,  196,  197 
Dorasan  the  royal  cat,  37,  n. 
Dord  Fiann,    137,  n.     Its  history 
and  makers,  47,  48.     When  first 
made  in  Ireland,  156,  157. 
Down,  57,  n. 

Drcoluinn,  daughter  of,  34'. 
Drobhaois,  61,  it.     Great  monster 

of,  62. 
Druids,  20. 

Druidical  cats,  35.     Mist,  190,   n. 
Kites,   108,  ti.     Wind,    144,  n., 
145,  n. 
3:)rumcliabh,  61,  n.    Spectre  of,  61. 
Drumcliif,  61,  n. 

Drummond   (Rev.    Dr.),    50,    64, 

169,  71. 
Duanaidh,  Aodh,  194,  195. 

Dubhfhaelind,  77. 
Dubhghearrthaeh,  188,  169. 

Dubh-sliliabh,  134,  134,  n.,  135. 

Dublin,  41,  45,  116,  182,«.  Irish 
name  of,  60,  n. 

Dun,  meaning  of  the  term,  123,  w. 

Dun  BinnEich  (Dunbin),  40. 

Dun-Binn-each-labhra,  41 . 

Dunbin,  40. 

Dun-Boi,  128,  129,  129,  n. 

Dunboy,  129,  n. 

Dun-Bolg,  182,  183. 

Dundalk,40.  Its  Irish  name,  169,  ?i. 

Dun-da-bhrogha,  128,  129. 

Dundealgain,  moat  of,  169,  /i. 

Dunfeart,  190,  n. 

Dun-na-bh-fearta,  188,  n.,  190,  n. 

Dungarvan,  128,  «,,  131. 

Dunlaing,  where  fostered,  190,  w. 

Dun  Mac  Neachtain,  73. 

Dun  Mac  Neachtain  Sceine,  79. 

E. 

Eachlach,  meaning  of  the  term, 
162,  n. 

Eachtaidhc,  mountain  of,  118,  119. 

Eadaoin,  a  fairy  princess,  84.  85, 
117.  Of  Inis  Crcagairc,  83.  Of 
Sliabh  Caoin,  180,  180,  w.,  181. 


Eadhbo,  182.  183. 

Eamliain  (Emania),  109. 

Earmais,  the  princess,  111,  111,  //. 

Eas  Dara,  24,  25. 

Easga  (the  moon),  fountain  of,  174, 

175,  175, 71. 
Easroe,  33,  126,  127,  142,  142,  n., 

143.  Meaning  of  the  term,  126,  w. 
Eathoir,  156,  157. 
Egypt,  37,  49,  1 15. 
Eibhear,  race  of,  129,  n. 
Eire,  glens  of,  61.     King  of,    his 

privilege  in  the  banqueting  hall, 

186,  187. 
Eithleann,  164,  164. 7t.,  165. 
Eithne,  the  druidess,  192,  192,  «., 

193. 
Elves,  92. 

English  invasion,  29. 
Enniskeen,  93. 
Eochaidh  Mor  Mac  Lughaidh,  188. 

189,  194,  195. 
Eoghan  Mor  (Eugene  the  Great), 

King  of  Munster,  82,  83,  190,  n. 
Taileach,  160,  161. 
Eric,  the  term  explained,  132,  n. 
Erin,  battles  of,  19r.,  197. 
Ernaans  of  ]Munster,  85. 

F. 

Faelaidh  of  Ossory,  wolfish  pre- 
dilections of,  retained  by  his  de- 
scendants,  160,  71.,   101,  7Í. 

Fail  (Ireland),  the  men  of,  62. 

Failbhe  Mor,  194,  195.  Failbhe 
Beag,  186,  187,  188,  189. 

Fallen  angels,  91,  n. 

Fairy,  17.  Etymology  of  the  word, 
93.  Dialogue,  101,  102.  Lore, 
85.  Kath  of  Cruacliain,  109. 
8ong  and  translation,  87,  88.  89. 

Faithleann  ]\Iongshuileach,  33,  34. 

Farnane,  1 1 0. 

FathaConain,  47,  158,  159. 

Fates,  112. 

Fcadh  Fiadh,  101,  194,  195,  196, 
197.  A  magic  covering,  188, 
188,  «.,  189.  Its  use  and  anti- 
quity, 190,  71. 

Fearguile,  138,  139. 

Feargus,  184,  185.  Finnliath,  162, 
163,  164,  165,  166,  167.  Fionn- 
mor,  1(50,  161. 

Fear  More,  district  of,  118,  118,  n., 
119. 


105 


Fcaisgaradh,  Dord  of,  136,  1;37. 
Feithlind  tlie  prophetess,  109. 
Female  couriers,  162,  n. 
Fenians,  28,   33.     Great  slaughter 
of,   196,    197.     Hunt  described, 
65,  66,  67,  68,  69,  70.     Meaning 
of  the  term,  21.  Minstrelsy,  136, 
137. 
Fenius  Farsaidh,  first  inventor  of 

letters,  21,  2G,  27. 
Fernioy,  barony  of,  22. 
Fetches,  103. 
Fews  (of  Armagh),  89. 
Fiachra,  son  of  Criomhthain,  146, 

147. 
Finius,  26. 
Finudeilbh,    184,    185,     188,    189. 

Her  appearance,  124,  125, 
Finnisk  river,  110. 
Finn's  great  leap,  30,  31. 
Fionn,  117,  174,  n  ,  190,  191,  192, 

193. 
Fionn,  son  of  Cumhall,  20,  21,  26, 
29,  30,  117,  118,  119,  188,  189. 
Compared  to  Jonas,  59,  n.  His 
extraordinary  leaps,  128,  129, 
130,  n.,  131,  n.,  132,  133,  180, 
181.  Fight  with  Cuchullainn, 
80,  81,  82.  Gift  of  foreknow- 
ledge,  184,  185.  His  liounds, 
148,  149.  Metamorphosed  into 
an  old  man,  50.  Into  a  grey 
fawn,  168,  n.  Kandom  shots  of, 
170,  171,  182,  183.  Palace  of, 
136,  n.,  Warriors,  appellations 
of,  29.  Persons  of  the  name,  49, 
50.  Where  bred,  128,  n. 
Fionnbharr  Maigh  Feabhail,  186, 
186,  n.,  187,  188,  189,  194,  195. 
Firbolg,  race  of,  22. 
Fir  Breige  (fictitious  men),  objects 

of  veneration,  37. 
Fire-worshippers,  192,  w.,  193,  n. 
Fogs  in  Ireland,  148,  149. 
Foghmar,    meaning  of   the   term, 

164,  n. 
Fomorians,  22,  23,  25,  26. 
Forays,  165,  165. 
Forau,  an  Irish  scribe,  116. 
Fore,  barony  of,  61,  n. 
Fotharladh,  184,  185. 
Fox,  singular  cupidity  of  a,  42,  43. 
Mr.  Thomas,  60,  n.  Murphy,  44. 
Fuenmicoall,  63. 
FueuvicouU,  63. 
Funeral  dirge,  86. 


Gabhal  Liuin,  the  well  of,  168,  it. 
Gal  way,  60,  n.,    62,   ti.,    119,  «., 
186,  n.       Harbour,    its  ancient 
name,  162,  n. 
Garradh  Glundubh,  50,   124,    195, 

196,  197. 
Gath-bolg.  82,  111. 
Geancanach  (love-talker j,  IS. 
German  legend,  105. 
Giant's   house,     121,  n.,       123,  n. 
With  one  leg  and  arm,  140,  141 . 
Pursued  by  a  young  girl,  148, 
148,  71.,  149. 
Giolla  an  Chuasain,  30,  158,  129, 

Early  name  of  Fionn,  128,  n. 
Giolla  na  g-Croiceann,  130,  130,  n., 

131. 
Giraldus  Cambrensis,  44.     His  fa- 
bles, 45. 
Glasdiogan  (Fionn's  first  name),  30. 
Glasdioghuin,  128,  128,  ti.,  129. 
Glas  Neara,  169,  w. 
Glen  h-Arma  (Glenarm),  Piast  of, 

61. 
Gleann  Dealgan,  131,  n. 
Glen  Eithne,  61,  n. 
Glen  Inny,  piast  of,  61. 
Glen  Righe,  61,  w  ,   169,  w.     Spec- 
tre of,  61. 
Glen  Samhaisg,  193,  n. 
Glen-an-snioil,  monster  of,  60. 
Goblia  Gaoithe,  sonof  Konan,  140, 

140,  n.,  141. 
GoU  Mac  Moirne,  83,  160,  161,  188, 

189,  190,  191,  194,  195. 
Gallan  or  IJallan,  meaning  of,  37. 
Goria,  battle  of,  136,  n. 
Gorey,  184,  n. 

Greatrakes,  Valentine,  his  miracu- 
lous cures,  104. 
Greece,  58. 
Grenoge,  88,  88,  n. 
Guaire,  king  of  Connacht,  35. 
Guallin's  remarkable  watch  dog,  50. 

Guille,  daughter  of,  64. 
Guillean,  65. 
(jullin's  daughter,  65. 


H. 


Hag  of  the  water,  51. 
Heber,  97- 

Heredy,  the  serpent,  11- 
Ileremon,  97. 


206 


Hindoos,  their  books,  115. 
Howth,  130,  n.    Estuary  of,  143,  n. 

Hill  of,  96,  n.      Irish  name   of, 

143,  n.    Landing  of  the  first  ship 

at,  143,  71. 
Unman  beings  metamorphosed  into 

wolves,  158,  n.  With  tails,  I60,n. 
Hubab,  mountains  of,  114, 
lly  Connall  Gabhra,   118,   118,  n., 

119. 


I. 

Inchiquin,  lake  of,  29,  63,  116. 

Incubus  expelled,  91. 

Idols,  how  dressed,  122,  n. 

Ifinn,  the  fairy  princess,  137,  n. 

Indoilb,  a  fairy  princess,  82. 

Innis  Comhsgraidh,  1 09. 

Inis  Grianportach  Cealgaire,  84. 

Innistuil,  156,  157. 

Inse  Creagaire,  83. 

lollann  Eachtach,  160, 161, 164, 165. 

Iphin,  the  benevolent,  17- 

Iraghticonnor,  134,  n. 

Ireland,  112,  116,  123,  n.,  126,  n., 
135,  n.,  144,  w.,  193,  n.  Anti- 
quities of,  22.  Enveloped  in  a 
mystical  fog,  143,  n.  Fate  of, 
foretold,  149,  n. 

Irish  war  chariots  described,  71,  72. 
Cyclops,  117.  Fairy  song,  95, 
96.  Fenian  army,  how  consti- 
tuted, 22.  Manuscripts,  28.  51, 
61,  n.  Mythology,  80.  Kennius 
quoted,  46,  I4ó,  147,  155,«., 
159,  71.  Keptune,  34.  Orpheus, 
17.  I'agans,  192,  n.  Satire,  su- 
pernatural power  of,  35. 

Isle  of  Man,  39,  89. 

Israelites,  26. 

J. 

Jomais,  son  of  Bachar,  his  death, 

182,  183. 
Joshua,  26. 
Josue,  22. 
Judea,  26. 

K. 

Kells,  book  of,  116. 

Kerry,    118,   /t.,     130,   n.,    134,  n. 

Ciar,  king  of,    130,  n. 
Kerry. Luacbra,  31,  king  of,   130, 


130 


131. 


Kildare,  136,  n. 

Kilkenny,  46,   159,  n.,  190,  n. 

Killarney,  lakes  of,  60,  n.,  118,  n. 

Kihnanagh,  abbot  of,  159,  n. 

Kirwan  family.  180,  n.  Their  great 
success  on  the  turf  attributed  to 
the  king  of  the  fairies,  186,  «. 

Knockane,  128,  n. 

Knockmadh,  186,  n. 


Laighne  Faelaidh,  h'srace  in  Osso- 

ry,  158,  n. 
Laighnibh  (Leinstermen),  111. 
Lake  Dagruadh,  65.    Of  Inchiquin, 

29. 
Lakes  inhabited  by  serpents,  51 . 
Lamb,  Kev.  Patrick,  P.P.,  110. 
Lanesborough,  61,  m. 
Laoghaire  mac  Neill,  111. 
Leagan  Luaimneach,  142,  143. 
Leannan  Sighes  (familiar  spirits), 

19,  80,   82,  83,   86,   89,  90,98  , 

101,    102,    103,    162,  n.     Kescue 

Eoghan  Mor  in  battle,  84. 
Lee  (the  river),   92.     White  trout 

of,  138.  139. 
Leim  na  Con  (Loophead),  31. 
Leinster,  166,  167,  198,  199.     Fir- 

bolgian  tribes  of,  22. 
Leitrim,  61,  n. 

Lcsly,  Dr.,  bishop  of  Raphoe,  103. 
Liagan  Luaimneach,  134,  135. 
Liathmacha,  77. 
Liber  Hymnorum  quoted,  77. 
Life  Lcisgeamhuil    (the  slothful), 

134.  135,  135,  n. 
LiflVy,  tlie  river,  135.  n. 
Limerick,  90,  118,  «.,  143. 
Lioses  (fairy  forts),  89,  91,  w. 
Lir,   story   of  the  children  of,  33, 

192,  71.    Swans  of,  192,  /t.,  193,«. 
Lirites,  192, 7i. 
Lochlan,    26.      King   of,    136,  w., 

137,«. 
Lochlannachs,  23,  26,  164,  n. 
Loch  Laoghaire,  62,  62,  «. 
Loch  Carra,  Gara,  or  Tauchct,  61,«. 

Piast  of,  61. 
Locli  Cuaii,  57,  «.,  58. 
Locli  Cuiliiiiii,  piast  of,  60. 
Locli  Derg,  65. 
Loch  Dcarg  Dheirc,  186,  187. 
Locli  Doghra,  172,  173. 


:07 


Loch  Erne,  golden  apjjles  of,  41. 
Piast  of,  60. 

LochLenc,  118,  119,  119,  «.  Spec- 
tre of,  60,  60,  n. 

LochLurg,  30.  122,  123. 

Loch  Lurgan,  monster  of,  62,  62,  n. 

Loch  Mary,  62,  n. 

Loch  Masg,  piast  of,  62,  62,  n. 

Loch  Meilge,  piast  of,  61,  61,  n. 

Loch  Neagh,  piast  of,  60.  Proper- 
ties of  its  waters,  51. 

Loch  Kamar,  piast  of,  61. 

Loch  Rea,  60,  n. 

Loch  Ree,  61,  n.     Piast  of,  61. 

Loch  Riathach,  piast  of,  60,  60,  n. 

LochKibh.  61,  n. 

Loch  Truiiu,  monster  of,  61. 

Lough  of  Strangford,  57,  n. 

Loich,  111. 

Loop  Head,  130,  n. 

Louth,  39,  71. 

Luachair  Dheaghaidh,  30,  130,  n., 
134,  134,  n.,  142,  143. 

Luchryman,  17,  18.  How  cap- 
tured,  18. 

Lughaidh,  188,  189.  Allatach,  85. 
Lamha,  160, 161,164,165.  Lamh- 
fhada  (the  long-handed),  23,  25. 

Lurgan  green,  32,  174,  n. 

Lurgain  ratha,  32. 

Lynch,  Dr.  quoted,  168,  n 


M. 


Mac  Abhric,Fatha,126, 126,«.,  127. 

Mac  Beag,  79. 

Mac  Buain,  Beag,  174.  175. 

Mac  Carrioll,  Seadna,  130,  130,  n., 

131. 
Mac  Cumhaill  (Fionn),  49,  50,  51, 

1 16,  His  prophecy  quoted,  149, n. 

Serpents  and  monsters  slain  hy, 

51,  52,  53,  54,  55.  56,  57,  58,  59, 

60,  61,  92. 
Mac    Domhnaill    (Mac    Donnell), 

186,  187. 
Mac  Firhis,  20,  22. 
Mac  Lughaidh,  148,  149,  160,  161, 

194,  195.    Whistling  of,  136, 137. 
Mac-an-Loin   (Fionn's  sword),  30, 

62,  142,  143. 
Mac  Maghagh,  Ceat,  194,  195. 
Mac  Manair,  17,  136,  n.,  137,  ?i. 
Mac  Minne,  the  little  dwarf,  136, 

137. 
Mac  Moineanta,  19,  93. 


Mac  Nessa,    Conchobhar,    39,   40, 

162,  n. 
Mac  Niadh,  85. 

Macpherson,  his  forgeries,  136,  n.    V 
Mac  Ram,  184,  w. 
Mac  Reith,  172,  173,  176,  177,  184, 

184,«.,  185,  188,  189. 
Mac  Ron  an,  49. 

Mac  Saidhbhre,  Conall,   194,  195. 
Mac  Covey,  Art,  86. 
Magh  Ceidhte,  180,  180,  n.,  181. 
Magh  Eithne,  grunting  of  the  hogs 

of,  138,  138,  n.,  139. 
Magh-minn,  48. 
Magh  Muirtheimne,  79,  137,  n. 
Magonihy,  134,  n. 
Mahomedans,  111. 
Mananan,    20,    25.     Mac  Lir,   93. 

Deity   of   the  ocean,    17.       His 

house,  122,  n. 
Maranan,  Sheeli  Ki,  a  cowherd's 

daughter,  102. 
Mary  street  (Dublin),  116. 
Mayday  exercise,  131,  «. 
Mayo,  62,  n. 

Meardha,  his  sons,  136,  136,  n.,  137. 
Meath,  25,  122,  n.,   144,  n.     Osso- 

rian  wolves  banished  to,  159,  ». 
Meidhbh,  107,  108,  109.     Her  war 

chariots,  75.  76,  77. 
Mice  satirized,  36,  36.  w. 
Millard,  Mrs.  116. 
Milesius,  descendants  of,  82.     Fa- 
milies, 110. 
Milucradh,  117,  168,  169,  192,  n. 
Moats,  123,  n, 
Modeligo,  parish  of,  109, 
Modhuirn,  son  of,  142,  143. 
Mogh  Lamha,  85. 
Moghna,  184,  185. 
Monaghan,  93,  122,  n. 
Moirne  (clan  of),  30,  31,50,  128,  n. 

130,  131. 
Mount  Callan,  63,  65. 
Mountain  Castle,  109 
xMount  Odel,  128,  n. 
Mount  Uniacke,  93. 
Muinchin,  182,  183. 
Muirrionn  Mongcaomh.   160,   161, 

161,  n. 
Muirtheimne,  plains  of,  71 
Munster,  82,   85,  93,  94,  102,  182, 

183.   Remarkable  well  in,  168,  n. 
Murcliadh,  189,  n. 
Murchadh,  son  of  Brian  Boroimhe, 

a  destroyer  of  serpents,  51. 
Murphy,  John,  99. 


208 


Neaniliuin,  188,  189. 

Neiiiiiilh    (Ncniedius))  ancestor  of 

tlic  Firbolfis,  26. 
Nc'oid,    the   penurious   man,     117, 

176,  176.«..  177,  178,  179. 
Newcastle,  89. 
New   Grange,    temple  of,    122,  «., 

144,  «. 
Newtownhamilton,  110. 
Newry  river,   169,  ?«.      Valley  of, 

61.  n. 
Niall  Frasach,  89. 
Nisses,  92. 
Nuadh  Airgiodlamli,  23. 


O. 
O'Baoisgne,  Fionn,  124,  125. 
O'Brien,  Dr.  John,  quoted,  22. 
O'Buadhcluiin,  Bran  Beag,144, 145, 

184,  185. 
O'Cathalain  (O'Callan),  38,  39. 
OTlery  quoted,  124.  n.,  125,  n. 
O'Connor,  Dr.  Charles,  quoted,  21 , 

22,26,  111. 
O'Daly,  33,  n.,40,  41,  93,  110. 
O'Donnell,  89.  91. 
O'Donovan,  (Dr.),  35,  n.,   188,  n. 
O'DriscoIls,  their  territory,  129,  «. 
O'Duibhne,    Diarmuid,    148,    149, 

160,  161. 
O'Faolain,  country  of,  112. 
0'Hartagan,Dublilaing,  98,  98,  n., 

101,  188,  188,  n.,  190.  n. 
O'Kearney,  116. 
O'Kelly,  Tadhg,  101. 
O'Neill,  Mr.  Ilenry,  116. 
O'SulIivans  Beare,  129,  n. 
O'Uoddy,  Chevalier,  124,  ». 
Oeibhill  (now  Eevill),  188,  n. 
Offiily,  22. 

Ogham  inscriptions,  22,  63,  79, 116. 
Oidhe  Clilainne  Tuirinn  quoted,  23. 
Oirfidh,  17.     Lyre  of,  137,  n. 
Oiriar,  156,  n. 
Oirgialla,  a  well  in,  wliich  changes 

the  human  hair,  168,  n. 
Oisin,  48,  148,  149,  160,  161,   186 

187,  188,  189,  196,  197. 
Old  Leighlin,  a  remarkable  well  at, 

155,  n. 
Old  age  represented,  154,   154  ?«., 

155. 
Oracle  responses,  38. 


Orgiall,  a  Brughadh  of,  38. 

Orrery,  earl  of,  1 03. 

Orpheus,  17,  136,  n. 

Oscar,  son  of  Criomhthann,  134, 
135. 

Osiris,  32.     Members  of,  142,  n. 

Ossory,  41,  158, 7i. 

Ossorians  transformed  into  wolves, 
158,  n.  Their  singular  propen- 
sities, 46. 


Pagan  deities,    17.      Idolatry,    17- 

Marriage    described,    160,    161. 

Rites,  192,  n. 
Pains  and  penalties,  126,  /?.,  127,  «., 

128,«. 
Palestine,  22. 
Partholanus,  22,  23,  26. 
Pharaoh,  49. 
Phoenix,  26,  27. 
Phoenicia,  26. 
Phoenicians,  22.      Various  names 

of,  27. 
Phrenology,  its  effects,  44. 
Piast,  meaning  of  the  word,  57,  n. 
Pillar  stones,  37. 
Pococke,  Dr.  115, 
Portlaw,  116. 
Procopius  quoted,  22,  23. 
Puca  (hobgoblin),  37. 


R. 

RachtaDearg,  196,  197. 

Raithineach,  99. 

Ham,  184,  n. 

Ranistown,   184,  w. 

Raphoe,  bishop  of,  103, 

Rath s,  61. 

Bats  and  rat-expellers,  35. 

Red-haired  woman's  curse,  131,  ?i.  "^ 

Red  Indians  of  America,  104. 

Red  wind  of  the  hills,  94,  ji.     Its 

baneful  influence,  145,  ?i. 
Rent    and    tax    collectors,    great 

slaughter  of,  24,  25. 
Riachall,  37,  n. 

Rian  Gabhra  the  charioteer,  80. 
Riehis  or  Saints,  115. 
Rinn-gear-fhiaclach,  37,  w. 
Rinn  an  Ruaigh,  142,  142,  w.,  143. 
River  Brickey,  128,  n. 
River  Dealgan,  131,  h. 


209 


River  Finnisk,  110. 

River  Liflfey,  135,  n. 

River  Newry,  169,  n. 

lioc,   1 17,   138,    139,   139,  w.,  146, 

147.      Singular   history   of,    33. 

Son  of  Diocan,  144,  145. 
Rochan,  196,  197- 
Rock  of  Corren,  121,  n. 
Royal  Irisli  Academy,  136,  n.,  169, 

«.,  191,  n. 


S. 

Salmon  of  knowledge,  174,  174,  n., 
175. 

Samaria,  Irish  name  for,  123,  n. 

Sammes  quoted,  72,  73. 

Samhaisg,  193,  n. 

Sceoluing,  Fionn's  hound,  49,  117, 
168,  169. 

Scotland,  26,  136,  n. 

Scraby  hill,  19,  93. 

Seadna,  31. 

Seatown,  169,  n. 

Seanchan,  chief  ollamh  of  Erin,  a 
satirist,  35. 

Seba,  tlie  princess,  her  strange  his- 
tory, 33. 

Sechnall  quoted,  78. 

Serpent  worship,  115,  123,  n. 

Sgatha,  82. 

Sgails,  their  death,  196,  197. 

Sgiath  Bhreac,  144,  145,  166,  167. 

Sgolb  Sgeine,  188,  189,  196,  197. 

Shannon,  piast  on  the,  61,61,  n.,  89. 

Shenad,  92. 

Sighe  CoiUen  JFeidhlim,  164,  165, 
165,  n. 

Sighle  Ni  Mharranan,  a  swine- 
herd's daughter,  163,  n. 

Sith-Daire,  31,  130,  n.,  131. 

Siubhan  Dubh  na  Boinne,  19. 

Slanaidhe's  hogs,  qualifications  ne- 
cessary for  the  killing  of,  180, 
181,   181,  n. 

Sliabh  Aughty,  119,  n. 

Sliabh  Caoin,  117. 

Sliabh  Cuilleann,  168,  169,  169,  n. 

Sliabh  GuiUin,  39,  61,  n.,  117.  170, 
ti.,  172,  n.,  193,  n.  Lake  of, 
supernatural  powers  of  its  waters, 
50,  168,  n.  Lay  of  the  chace  of, 
64,  65.     Monster  of,  61 . 

Sliabh  an  Eigh,  142,  142,  n.,  143, 

Sliabh    Smoil,    128,    129,    129,    n. 
Where  situated,  129,  n. 
15 


Sliabh  Truim,  lay  of  the  chace  of, 
51,  52,  53,  54,  55,  56,  57,  58, 
59,  60,  61,  62. 

Sligo,  61,  n.,  121,  n.,  123,  n. 

Sliding  car  of  the  ancient  Irish,  78. 

Sluggards,  deity  of,  135,  n. 

Soistruach,  a  female  courier,  186, 
187. 

Sparan  na  Sgillinge ;  or  the  incx- 
liaustible  purse,   18. 

Speckled  Book  quoted,  78. 

Spells,  115,  145,  n. 

Stanihurst  quoted,  155,  n, 

St.  Benignus,  190,  n. 

St.  Columbkille,  19,  93. 

St.  Ciaran,  36.     His  monks,  44. 

St.  Kiaran  of  Saiglier,  life  of,  quo- 
ted, 41. 

St.  Naal  or  Natalis.  159,  n. 

St.  Patrick's  chariot,  78.  Demons 
expelled  by  the  sound  of  his  bell, 
37.     Hymn  of,  190,  n. 

Stepmother,  severe  punishment  of, 
33,  34. 

Strabane,  barony  of,  62,  n. 

Stockades,  136, 7i. 

Subterranean  chambers,  120,  n. 

Sumaire  of  the  Red  Sea,  30,  122, 
123, 

Sun,  its  influence,  112. 

Syria  Damascena,  114. 


T, 

Tadhg  the  Druid,  130,  «. 

Tara,  22,  24,  88,     Great  hurlet  at, 

32.     King  of,  175,  n,    Talace  at, 

143,  n. 
Tain  Bo  Chuailgne  quoted,  35,  36, 

n.,  48,  50,  77,78,  107,109,  110, 

111,  142,  n. 
Tavish,  Sheela,  91. 
Teamhair  Luachra,  138,  139,  186, 

187,  188,  189. 
Teathoir,  156,  157. 
Teisionn,  174,  175,  176,  177. 
Teithcheann,  174,  175, 
Temora  (Tara),  191,  n. 
Tiarmacbren,  lake  of,  63. 
Tiernach  Bran,  63 
Tiompan,  or  timbrel,  48,  49. 
Tipperary,  129,  n.,  160,  /t. 
Tiresius,  her  strange  history,  33. 
Todd,   Rev.  Dr.,  quoted,   46,    77, 

155,  1.,  158,  n.,  159,  n. 


210 


Tore,  mountain  of,  118, 1 19,  1 19,  n. 

Traiglilidhe  (Tralee),  the  roar  of 
the  waves  of,   136,  137. 

Tralee,  136,  137,  138,  139. 

Trinity  College,  116. 

Truth  and  Falsehood  represented, 
134,  154,  n.,  155. 

Tuaghanaicme,  134,  n. 

Tuatha  Dedanans,  17,  23,  24,  28, 
47,  48,  82,  117,  120,  n.,  122,  n., 
126,  127,  136,  71.,  144,  «.,  158, 
w.,  167,  168,  174,  175,  175,  n., 
181,  184,  185,  186,  186,  n.,  187, 
188,  189,  192,  193,  194,  195, 
196,  197. 

Tuirreann,  daughter  of  Tadhg, 
160,  161. 

Tulachs,  143,  n. 

Twomilebridge,  128,  n. 

Tyrone,  62.    Gael  of,  89. 


Ua  Scudal,  Diarmaid,  92. 
Uatha,  82. 

Ucht-dealbh,  160,  161,  166,  167. 
Uisneach,  24.  25. 
Uniacke,  94,  96,  n.,  98. 
Ulster,  39,  41,  57,  n.,  64,  76,  93, 
109,160,161.      King  of,  162,  n. 


Remarkable  well  of,  168,  n.    Re- 
nowned bull  of,  142,  n. 
Ultonians,  107,  109. 


W. 
Walton,  Izaak,  63. 
War-chariots,  71 . 
Ware  quoted,  103,  120,  ».,  190,  w. 
Water  witch,  65. 
Water,  peculiar  qualities  of,   174, 

175. 
Waterford,  109,  116,  128,  n.,  131, 

190,  n. 
Westmeath,  61,  «.,  88. 
Wexford,  184,  n. 
White  quoted,  44. 
Whitechurch,  parish  of,  128,  n 
William  III.,  89,  n. 
Wind,  its  evil  effects,  112. 
Witches,  how  vulnerable,  37. 
Wittelbacher  palace,  106. 
Wolves,  45,  46. 


Youghal,  93,  95,  96,  98,  128,  n. 

Z. 

Ziermacbran,  63. 


MEMBERS. 


Anster,  John,  LL.D.,  Barrister, 
liegius  Professor  of  Civil  Law, 
T.C.D.,  3,  Lr.  Gloucester-street, 
Dublin. 

Asher,  Messrs.  A.,  &  Co.,  Publish- 
ers, Berlin. 

Atkinson,  Edward,  Esq.,  M.  D., 
Drogheda. 

B. 

Broderick,  the  Hon.  Miss  Charlotte, 
Bath. 

Barron,  Mrs.,  Portland-place,  Bath. 

Barry,  Mr.  David,  Carrigtuohill. 

Bell,  Rev.  Edw.,  Inniskeen,Bandon. 

Black,  Rev.  — ,  A.M.,  Rector  of 
Raheny. 

Blake,  Thomas  W.  Jex,  Esq.,  Uni- 
versity College,  Oxford. 

Bourke,  Rev.  Ulick  J..  St.  Patrick's 
College,  Maynooth. 

Bourke,  John,  Esq.,  42,  Marlbo- 
rough-street,  Dublin. 

Bourke,  Martin,Esq.,  ll,Longwood 
Avenue,  Dublin. 

Bourke,  Edwd.  J..  Esq.,  147,  South 
3rd-street,  Philadelphia. 

Bradshaw,  Henry,  Esq.,  A.B.,  Fel- 
low of  King's  College,  Cambridge, 
St.  Columba's  College,  Rathfarn- 
liam,  Rockbrook. 

Brash,  Richard  Robert,  Esq.,  Sun- 
day's Well,  Cork. 

Browne,  Edwa,rd  George  Kirwan, 
Esq.,  B.A.,  TrinityCollege,  Cam- 
bridge, Moate,  Westmeath. 

Burke,  Joseph,  Esq.,  Barrister-at- 
law,  17,  Fitzwilliani-p'.,  Dublin. 

Burton,  John,  Esq.,f  ewHa  Inquirer, 
Philadelphia. 

Byrne,  Mr.  Mylcs,  New  Bridge, 
Ovoca. 


Cleaver,  Miss  Fanny  A.,  Funchal, 

Madeira. 
Campbell,  Rev.  Robert,  S.  Ninian's, 

Perth. 


Cane,  Robt.,  Esq.,  M.D.,M.R.C.S.I. 
Kilkenny. 

Carpenter,  James,  Esq.,  13,  Royal 
Circus,  Edinburgh. 

Carroll,  Rev.  Christopher,  St.  Pa- 
trick's College,  Maynooth. 

Casey,  Rev.  John,  P.P.,  Killarney. 

Clarke,  Rev.  John,  R.C.C.,  Louth. 

Cleaver,  Rev.  Euseby  D.,  A.B., 
Witney,  Oxon. 

Cleaver,  William  H.,  Esq.,  Christ 
Church,  Oxford. 

Clelland,  James,  Esq.,  Irish-street, 
Downpatrick. 

Collins,  Rev.  J.,  R.C.C.,  Innishan- 
non,  Band  on. 

Collins,  Edward  F.  Esq.,  Hull  Ad- 
vertiser, Hull. 

Collis,  Capt.,  Esq.,  Dawson  Grove, 
Dublin. 

Connellan,  Professor  Owen,  Queen's 
College,  Cork, 

Considine,  Mr.  Daniel,  Jail-street, 
Ennis. 

Conway,  M.  E.,  Esq.,  General  Post 
Office,  Dublin. 

Cooper,  Leonard  L.,  Esq.,  A.B., 
T.C.D.,  Williamstown,  Black- 
rock,  Dublin. 

Corbet,  Martin,  Esq.,  St.  Patrick's 
College,  Maynooth. 

Costello,  John,  Esq.,  Galway. 

Cousins,  Rev.  Sidney  Leslie,  A.B., 
Ardgroom,  Berehaven. 

Crowley,  Jeremiah,  Esq.,  Old  Cha- 
pel, Bandon. 

CuUen,  Luke,  Esq.,  Mount  St.  Jo- 
seph, Clondalkin. 

Cummins,  Rev.  Jeremiah,  R. C.C., 
South  Presbytery,  Cork. 

D. 

Daly,  R.  B.,  Esq-  West-street, 
Drogheda. 

Delany,  — ,  Esq.,  Longford  Ter- 
race, Kingstown, 

De  Rhythre,  W.  D„  Esq..  Rivers- 
town  House,  Monasterevan. 

Duherty,  Rev.  Philip  Vincent, 
O.P.,  Denmark-street,  Dublin. 


212 


Doncgan,  John, -Esq., Dame-street, 
Dublin. 

Donovan,  Wm.  J.,  Esq.,  17,  Tri- 
nity College,  Dublin  ;  and  Port- 
arlington. 

Dowden,  Kichard  (R.),  Esq.,  Rath 
Lee,  Sunday's  Well,  Cork. 

Drumraond,  Kev.  Wm.  Hamilton, 
D.l).,  M.R.I.  A.,  27,  Lower  Gar- 
diner street,  Dublin. 


Egan,  Geo.  Wm.,  Esq  ,  Dundrum. 


Fagan,  James,  Esq,,  Dublin. 

Faughney,  James,  Esq.,  Castlebar. 

Field,  John,  Esq.,  Blackrook, 
Dubhn. 

Fitzgerald,  Rev.  Patrick,  St.  Pa- 
trick's College,  Maynooth. 

Fitzgerald,  Edward,  i'.sq..  Archi- 
tect, Nelson  Terrace,  Youghal. 

Fitzgerald,  Robert,  Esq.,  Dunoboy, 
Kilkee. 

Fisher,  Rev.  William  Allen,  Kil- 
moe,  Skull,  Skibbereen. 

Flynn,  Wm.,  Esq.,  Philadelphia. 

Foley,  Rev.  Daniel  T,,  D.D.,  Pro- 
fessor  of  Irish,  Trinity  College, 
Dublin. 

Forrest,  Rev.  John,  D.D.,  Bray. 

Fowler,  Thomas  Kirwan,  Esq., 
Alexandria,  Egypt. 


Getty,  Edmund,  Esq.,  M.R.I. A., 
Belliist. 

Gilligan,  Rev.  Patrick  J.,  R.C.C., 
61 ,  James's-street,,Dublin. 

Glcnnon,  Timothy  Peters,  Esq., 
Head  Postmaster,  Coventry. 

Goodman,  Rev.  James.  A.B.,  Skib- 
bereen. 

Goodman,  George,  Esq.,  Ballya- 
meen.  Dingle. 

Graham,  Mattliew  Moore,  Esq., 
C.E.,  Dundalk. 

Graves,  Ruv.  Chas.,D.D.,F.T.C.D., 
M.R.I. A.,  Dublin. 

Graves,  Rev.  James,  A.B.,  Kil- 
kenny. 

Grainger,  John,  Esq.,  A. B.,  Belfast. 


H, 

Hackett,  William,  Esq.,  Midleton. 
Hammond,  Rt.  Worshipful  Thos., 

Mayor,  Drogheda. 
Hanna,  J.  W.,   Esq.,   Saul-street, 

Downpatrick. 
Harpur,  George,  Esq.,  J.P.,  Sheep 
I      House,  Drogheda. 
'  Haverty,  M.,  Esq.,  Dublin. 
Hayes,  Edward,  Esq,,  Melbourne, 

Australia. 
Hayman,  Rev.  Samuel,  A.B.,  South 

Abbey,  Youghal. 
Healy,    Rev.    Michael,    R.  C.  C, 

Enuiskeen,  Bandon. 
Healy,  William,  Esq.,  Castlebar. 
Hester,  Rev.  Bartholomew,  P.P., 

Ardcarna,  Boyle. 
Hewitt,  Thomas,   Esq.,  Barrister- 

at-law,  Cork. 
Hickey,  Rev.  Jas.,  R.C.C,.  Church 

of  St.  Nicholas,    Francis -street, 

Dublin. 
Hitchcock,  Mr.  Richard,  35,  Upper 

Mount  Pleasant-avenue,  Dublin, 
Holmes,  Charles,  Esq.,  A.B. 
Hore,  Herbert  F.,  Esq.  Pole-IIore, 

Wexford. 
Humphries,  Thomas,  Esq.,  Kilnia- 

cow,  Waterford. 


Jones,  Thomas  Mason,  Esq.,  Sun- 
day's Well,  Cork. 

Jordan,  Mr.  Patrick,  32,  Wardour- 
street,  Oxford  street,  London. 


K. 

Kavanagh,  Miss  Julia,  21,  Glouccs- 

ter-st..  Queen-square,  London. 
Kildare,  Tlie  Most  Noble,  The  Mar- 

quis  of.  Carton,  Maynooth. 
Keleher,  Matt.,  Esq.,  Philadelphia. 
Kelly,    Rev.   Matthew,    Professor, 

St.  Patrick's  College,  Maynooth. 
Kelly,  Denis  H.  Esq.,  D.L.,  J. P., 

M.R.I. A.,  Castle  Kelly,  Mount 

Talbot  (2  copies). 
Kelly,  Stephen,  Esq.,  Galway. 
Kelly,   William  Bernard,    Eaq.,  8, 

Grafton  street,  Dublin. 
Kennedy,  Patrick,  Esq.,  G,  Angle- 

seastrect,  Dublin. 


as 


Kennifeck,    Kcv.   Maurice,    P.P., 

Rathconnick. 
Kenny,  James  C.  F.,  Esq  ,  A.B., 

J.  P.,    M.E.I.  A.,    Kilclogher, 

Monivea,  County  of  Galway. 
Kilroy,  Andrew,    Esq.,  Anglesea- 

street,  and  Templebar,  Dublin. 
King,  Eev.  Robert,  A.B.,  Armagh. 
Kings  Inns,  the  Honourable  Society 

of,  Dublin. 
Kirwan,    John    Stratford,    Esq., 

Cooloc,  Dangan,  Co.  of  Galway. 
Knox,  J.  B  ,  Esq  ,   Proprietor  of 

the  Clare  Journal,  Ennis. 

L. 

Lamb,  Rev.  Patrick,  P.P.,  New- 
townhamilton. 

Langan,  Patrick,  Esq.,  Battrams- 
town,  Duleek. 

Lanphier,  Soraerville,  Esq.,  61, 
George's-street,  Cork. 

Langton,  William,  Esq,,  Mayfield, 
Bandon. 

Leahy,  Kev.  Patk.,  R.C.C., Church 
of  St.  Nicholas,  Francis-street, 
Dublin. 

Leet,    Ambrose,    Esq.,     A.  B., 
S.T.C.D.,  Leeson-st.,  Dublin. 

Lewis,  Henniker,  Esq.,  31,  Angle- 
sea-street,  Dublin. 

Littledale,  Richard,  Esq.,  A.B., 
S.T.C.D.,  Dublin. 

Logic,  Daniel  W.,  Esq.,  Portland- 
terrace,  Park-road,  (Jldford  Bow, 
London. 

Lysaght,  Michael,  Esq.,  Ennis. 

M. 

IMackesy,  Mrs.  Margaret  E.,  Cas- 
tletown Kilpatrick,  Navan. 

Mac  Adam,  Robert,  Esq.,  18,  Col- 
lege-square, Belfast. 

Mac  Carthy,  Rev.  Justin,  P.P., 
Mallow, 

Mac  Carthy,  Rev.  John,  C.  C, 
Mallow. 

Mac  Carthy,  John  George,  Esq., 
South  Mall,  Cork. 

Mac  Carthy,  Michael  J.,  Esq., 
Derrynanoul,  Mitchelstown. 

Jlac  Carthy,  William,  Esq.,  Der- 
rynanoul, Mitchelstown. 

Mac  Carthy,  Michael  Felix,  Esq., 
A.M.,  Dnigheda. 


Mac  Carthy,  Daniel,  Esq.,  2,  Port- 
land-place, Bath. 

Mackenzie,  John  Whitefoord,  Esq. 
F.  S.  A,  S.,  16,  Royal  Circus, 
Edinburgh. 

Macmillan,  Rev.  John,  Dunkeld. 

Macray,  Rev.  W.  D.,  M.A.,  New 
College,  Oxford. 

M'Carthy.  Denis,  Esq.,  Bandon. 

M'Carthy,  T.,  Esq.,  Bandon. 

M'CuUagh,  Mr.  Neal,  Galway. 

M'Devitt,  Rev.  James,  St.  Patrick's 
College,  Maynooth. 

M'Donald,  Js.,  Esq.,  Philadelphia. 

M'Evoy,  Charles,  Esq,,  Ballybar- 
rack,  Dundalk, 

M'Ginty,  M.,  Esq.,  Bray. 

M'Hugh,  Rev.  John,  C.C.,  Fir- 
house,  Templeogue. 

M'Sweeny,  Conor,  Esq.,  Passage 
W^est   Cork 

M'Watters,  Rev.  Thomas,  St.  Pa- 
trick's College,  Maynooth. 

Madden,  Rev.  John,  St.  Patrick's 
College,  Maynooth, 

Magrath,  Thomas,  Esq.,  Main- 
street,  Blackrock,  Dublin. 

Maguire,  Mr.  Hubert,  13,  Middle 
Gardiner-street,  Dublin. 

Mahony,  Richard,  Esq.,  Dromore 
Castle,  Kenmare. 

Mangan,  Rev.W.  R..  A.B.,  T.C.D. 
Enniskeen,  Bandon. 

Marnell,  John,  Esq.,  Pallas,  Mary- 
borough. 

Meagher,  Very  Rev.  Monsignore 
William,  D.D.,  V.G.,  P.P., 
Rathmines,  Dublin. 

Moloney,  Kev.  Michael,  R.C.C., 
Kilbride,  Wicklow. 

Moore,  Rev.  Philip,  R.CC,  Ros- 
bercon.  New  Ross, 

Moriarty,  M.,  Esq,,  Welleslcy  Cot- 
tage, Red  Hill,  Reigate,  England. 

Moroney,  William,  Esq.,  57,  Dock- 
street,  Philadelphia. 

Murray,  Rev.  Thomas  L.,  P.P., 
Kilcolman,  Mallow. 

Murphy,  Rev.  Dominick,  South 
Presbytery,  Cork. 

Murphy,  Rev.  Wra.,  St.  Patrick's 
College,  Maynooth. 

Murphy,  Rev.  Cornelius,  St.  Pa- 
trick's Cellege,  Maynooth. 

Murphy,  Mr.  James,  1,  Lombard- 
street,  Dublin. 


214. 


Nash,  Davj'il  William,  Ksq.,  P.ar- 
rister-at-liw,  9,  Vyvyan  Ter- 
race, Clifton,  Bristol. 

Newell,  Charles,  Esq.,  Adelaide 
iioad,  Dublin. 


O'Boyle,  Rev.  'Ihomas,  North  Plan- 
tagenet,  Canada  West,  North 
America. 

O'Brien,  Edmond,  Esq.,  T.C.D., 
and  Cahirmoyle,  Ratlikeale. 

O'Byrne,  Daniel,  Esq.,  Aghooney, 
Timahoe. 

O'Connell,  Philip,  Esq.,  Crown  So- 
licitor, East  Hiding,  Cork,  South 
Mall,  Cork. 

O'Connor,  Rev.  Charles  James, 
R.C.C.,  Sandiford,  Dundrum. 

O'Connor,  Mr.  Thomas^  19,  Shep- 
herd-street, Oxford-street,  Lon- 
don. 

O'Connor,  Mr.  Michael,  97,  St. 
Martin's- lane,  London. 

O'Daly,  Mr.  John  (Hon.  Sec.),  9, 
Anglesea-street,  Dublin. 

O'Daly,    John,    Esq.,    O'Daly's 
Bridge,  Kells. 

O'Donovan,  John,  Esq.,  LL.D., 
M.R.I.A.,  Barrister-at-law,  36, 
Upper  Buckingham-st..  Dublin. 

O'Duify,  John,  Esq.,  Dublin. 

O'DriscoU,  Denis  Florence,  Esq  , 
A.B.,  Senior  Scliolar  in  Natural 
Philosophy,  Queen's  College, 
Cork. 

O'Farrell,  James,  Esq.,  1,  Bevois 
Cottages,  Bevois  Valley,  South- 
ampton. 

O'Flynn,  Rev.  John  L.,  O.S.F.C, 
21,  Blackhall-street,  Dublin. 

O'Gorman,  Thomas,  Esq.,  17,  Hey- 
tesbury-strcet,  Dublin. 

O'Grady,  Standish  Hayes,  Esq., 
A.B.,  Erinagh,  CastleconncU.  (,6 
copies). 

O'Hanlon,  Rev.  John,  159,  James's- 
street,  Dublin. 

O'llara,  Randal,  Esq.,  Welch  Back, 
Bristol. 

O'llara,  Mr.  John,  Curlough, 
Bawnboy. 

O'llea,  Very  Rev.  Michael,  P.P., 
V.G.,  Rosscarbery,  Cork. 


O'Kearncy,    Nicholas,    Esq.,     4-2, 

Marlborough-street,  Dublin. 
(VLavcrty,    Rev.  James,    Il.C.C, 

Portglenone. 
O'Leary,  T.  Esq.,  Bandon. 
O'Loghlen,   Sir  Colman  M.,  Bart., 

20,     Merrion-square,      (South), 

Dublin. 
(^Mahony,  James,  Esq.,  Bandon. 
O'iMahony,    Cornelius,    Esq.,    Mil- 

waukie,  Wisconsin,  America. 
O'Mahony,    Jeremiah,    Esq,,     St. 

Stephen's,      New     Brunswick, 

America. 
O'Mahony,  Thaddeus.  Esq.,  A.B., 

(Treasurer),  24,  Trinity  College, 

l)ublin.  (2  copies.) 
O'Meara,  John,  Esq.,  Birr. 
O'Neill,  Neal  John,   Esq.,    Marino 

Crescent,  Clontarf ;  and  82,  Marl- 
borough-street, Dublin. 
O'Neill,  Rev,  James,  R.C.C.,  Rath- 

cormick,  Cork. 
O'Neill,  James,  Esq., Dublin  Castle. 
O'Roddy,  Bryan,  Esq.,  Dundalk. 
O'Rourke,  Rev.  John,  Kingstown. 
O'Shea,    John,    Esq.,    Mount   St. 

Joseph,  Clondalkin. 
O'Sullivan,  Rev.  Daniel  A.,  P.P., 

Enniskeen,  Bandon. 

P. 

Pigot,  John  Edward,  Esq.,  Barris- 
ter-at-law, 96,  Lower  Leeson- 
street,  Dublin. 

Power,  Rev.  Joseph,  M.A.,  Cam- 
bridge University  Library,  Cam- 
bridge. 

Prim,  John  G.  A.,  Esq.,  Kilkenny. 

R. 

Rcade,  Geo.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  A.B., 

Inniskeen  Rectory,  Dundalk. 
Reeves,  Rev. William,  D.D.,  Bally- 

mena. 
Reid,  John,  Esq.,  Delgany. 
Ring,  Rev.  B.,  A.B.,  S.T.C.D. 
Rooney,    Michael  William,    Esq., 

26,  Anglesea-street,  Dublin. 
Rowan,    Rev.    Arthur    B.,    D.D., 

M.R.I. A.,  Belmont,  Tralce. 
Rowland,  John  T.,  Esq.,  Solicitor, 

Drogheda. 
Royal  Dublin  Society,  Kiklare-st., 

Dublin. 


215 


Russell,  Thomas,  Esq.,  103,  Graf- 
ton-street,  Dublin. 

Ryan,  Andrew,  Esq.,  Gortkelly 
Castle,  Borrisoleigh. 


Scott,  William,  Esq..  Ranelagh. 
Seymour,  Charles,  Esq.,  A.B. 
Siesrfried,  Rudolf  Thomas,  Ph.  D., 

Dessau,  Germany. 
Shairp,  JohnCampbell.Esq., Rugby. 
Smiddy,  Rev.  Richard,   C.C.,  Mal- 
low. 
Smith,  Robert,  Esq.,  9,  Welbeck- 

street,  London. 
Stewart.    Francis    Robert,     Esq., 

Assistant  Secretary,  King's  Inns, 

Dublin. 
Storey,  William,  Esq.,  Market-lane, 

Kinsale. 
Synnott,  W.  F.,  Esq.,  Ballymoyer, 

Armagh. 


Talbot  de  Malahide,  The  Rt.  Hon. 

Lord,  Malahide  Castle,  Malahide. 
Tighe,   James,   Esq.,    161,    Great 

Britain-street,  Dublin. 
Todd,  Rev.  James  Henthorn,  D.D. 

S.F.T.C.D.,  F.S.A.,  M.R.I.A., 

Trinity  College,  Dublin. 


Todd,  Burns,  and  Co.,  Messrs., 
Mary-street,  Dublin,  per  Libra- 
rian. 

Turpin,  Walter,  Esq.,  57,  Rutland 
Square,  West,  Dublin. 

W. 

Ward,  Rev.  Peter,  P.P.  Turlough, 
Diocess  of  Tuam,  Castlebar. 

Ward,  Mr.  Luke,  Castlebar. 

Welsh,  Alexander  Colville,  Esq., 
Dromore,  Down. 

Westropp,  Ralph  M.  Esq.,  Ravens- 
wood,  Carrigaline. 

White,  John  Davis,  Esq.,  Deputy 
Registrar,  Diocess  of  Cashel, 
Cashel. 

Wilde, William  Robert,  Esq.,  M.D. 
F.R.C.S.I.,  M.R.LA.,  21,  West- 
land-row,  Dublin. 

Williams,  Rev.  George,  B.D.,  Vice- 
Provost,  King's  College,  Cam- 
bridge. 

Windele,  John,  Esq.,  Blair's  Castle, 
Cork, 

Wright,  Charles  H.H.,  Esq.,  Flora- 
villc,  Eghnton-road,  Dublin. 

Wright,   Edward  P.,  Esq.,  Flora- 

ville,  Eglinton-road,  Dnblin. 
Wyse,  Captain  Bonaparte,  Water- 
ford  Artillery,  Waterford. 


Di'iii.iN,  in4,  Gkafton-street, 
December,  1855. 

JIessks.  Hoi>oes,  Sjiith,  &  Co.  beg  to  anuounce,  that  from  the  very  numerous 
letters  which  they  have  been  honoured  with  from  persons  interested  in  the  literature  of 
this  country, — ft-om  collectors  of  historical  works, — together  with  notices  of  the  Press, 
Reviews,  Magazines,  &c.,  all  so  highly  complimentary  on  their  having  undertaken  the 
cost  of  publishing  so  large  a  work  as  the  Annals  of  IeeI;And,  extending  as  it  does  to 
seven  quarto  volumes,  upwards  of  four  thousand  pages,  they  are  stimulated  to  make  one 
more  eflbrt  to  place  the  Celtic  Literature  of  Ireland  on  a  basis  that,  if  carried  out, 
must  establish  it  for  hundreds  of  years  to  come. 

The  very  large  price  they  were  of  necessity  compelled  to  place  on  the  edition 
published  in  1850,  namelj',  fom-teen  guineas,  as  a  matter  of  course,  chiefly  confined 
the  sale  to  public  Institutions  and  men  of  large  fortune.  This  was  beyond  their  con- 
trol; and  they  most  fully  concurred  in  the  regret  so  generally  expressed,  that  the 
^voi-k  was  not  available,  on  account  of  its  large  price,  for  gentlemen  of  moderate 
income. 

With  the  concurrence  and  by  the  advice  of  many  distinguished  persons,  they  now 
announce  a  reprint  of  the  work,  to  be  in  every  way  as  beautiful  as  the  fourteen  guinea 
edition,  with  the  exception  of  the  paper,  which  wll  not  be  so  fine,  but  in  extent,  type, 
and  subject-matter  it  will  be  the  same. 

The  work  is  now  so  well  known,  that  it  may  seem  unnecessary  to  say  there  is  scarcely 
an  Irish  family  of  any  note  of  which  mention  is  not  made;  and  from  no  otiier  printed 
collection  can  the  history  and  pedigree  of  Irish  families  be  collected.  In  these  volumes 
the  antiquarian  will  find  new  and  invaluable  stores  of  information  upon  the  institutions 
and  manners  of  the  ancient  possessors  of  the  soil ;  the  topographer  can  identify  the 
sites  and  modern  names  of  every  remarkable  place  in  the  early  history  of  Ireland ; — the 
ecclesiastic  can  follow  up  the  history  of  ancient  churches  and  religious  houses,  and  will 
discover  notices  of  early  bishops  and  ecclesiastics,  many  of  whom  are  not  to  be  found 
even  in  Ware;  while  the  philologer  finds  materials  for  tracing  the  progress  and  various 
stages  of  the  last  remnant  of  the  Indo-European  language.  Every  locality  is  invested 
with  its  own  traditions  and  historical  events,  many  of  them  hitherto  but  imperfectly 
known;  not  even  the  ruins  of  ancient  buildings  arc  forgotten,  if  their  history  can 
illustrate  the  fortunes  of  their  original  owners. 

They  annex  a  feiu  of  the  numerous  notices  of  the  work  which  have  appeared,  and 
request  particular  attention  thereto.  If,  as  they  believe,  a  general  desire  exists  to 
preserve  the  native  literature  and  language  of  Ireland,  they  hope  to  receive  the  names 
of  subscribers  without  delay. 

So  soon  as  four  hundred  copies  arc  subscribed  for,  they  purpose  re-issuing 
tlie  seven  volumes,  within  twelve  months,  at  the  very  moderate  price  of  Twelve 
Shillings  per  volume;  and  as  a  guarantee,  if  such  be  necessary,  for  fulfilling  their 
engagement  with  the  Subscribers,  they  loill  not  require  payment  until  the  entire  work, 
index  and  all,  be  finished. 

In  bringing  out  a  popular  edition  of  this  work.  Messes.  Hodges,  Smith,  &  Co.'s 
sincere  wish  is  that  it  should  prove  to  be  a  National  Work  in  the  Avidest  sense,  and 
that  the  majority  of  their  countrymen  might  embrace  the  oi)portimity  of  possessing 
authenticated  memorials  of  their  ancestors,  and  of  their  deeds  iu  the  ages  of  a  distant 
but  thiiroughly  historic  antiqiuty. 


THE 

ANNALS  OF  THE  FOUR  MASTERS: 

KDITED, 

Mitl^  a  S^ranslation  uxiit  Coptaus  Hotcs, 

BY 

JOHN  O'DONOVAN,  LL.D.,  M.R.  I.  A., 

PROFESSOR  OF  CELTIC  LANGUAGES,  QL'EEN's  COLLKGE,  BELFAST. 


{Front  the  Gextlemax's  ^Magazine.) 

THIS  great  national  work,  extending  to  upwards  of  four  thousand  pages, 
and  forming  seven  large  quarto  volumes.  Is  the  most  magnificent  contri- 
bution to  historical  literature  that  either  Ireland  or  England  has  received  for 
many  years.  It  is  in  itself  a  chronicle  of  the  Irish,  written  by  Irishmen,  and 
of  the  highest  interest  for  its  native  annals. 


(From  the  Quarterly.  ) 

Tii.\T  the  history  of  Great  Britain  must  remain  incomplete  and  defective 
until  the  ancient  literary  monuments  of  the  lungdom  of  Ireland,  which  now 
forms  an  integral  portion  of  the  British  Empire,  have  been  fully  investigated, 
is  a  truth  re(puring  but  little  demonstration.  An  acquaintance  with  the 
annals  of  the  countries  whose  relations  with  England  have  materially  in- 
fluenced her  destinies  is  indispensable  to  the  in(|uirer  who  desires  to  trace  the 
origin  of  many  of  the  most  important  events  of  European  history.  The  mis- 
representations of  writers  who  have  hitherto  compiled  "  Histories  of  Ireland" 
are  sufficiently  apparent  to  students  even  superficially  conversant  with  our 
original  records.  To  palliate  one-sided  statements,  and  to  conceal  their 
ignorance,  those  self-styled  historians  have  in  general  asserted  that  no  native 
materials  existed  to  relieve  the  dulness  of  their  arid  productions.      An  in- 

» In  Seven  Volumes,  4to,    Four  Tlious.nml  One   Ilur-drcrl    and   Sixty   Pages,    Trice  Fourteen 
Guinea.*. 


2         THE  ANNALS  OF  THE  FOUR  MASTERS. 

spcction  of  our  manuscript  collections,  and  an  acquaintance  with  the  docu- 
ments published  within  the  last  ten  years  by  our  literary  societies,  will  fully 
disprove  this  gratuitous  falsehood,  and  demonstrate  that  Ireland  possesses 
ancient  historical  monuments  of  a  more  varied  and  authentic  character  than 
any  other  nation  of  northern  Europe.  The  numbers  and  copiousness  of  the 
Hiberno-Ccltic  documents  which  have  come  down  to  us  are  accounted  for  by 
the  fact,  that  one  of  the  most  stringently  enforced  of  the  ancient  Celtic  laws 
of  Ireland  was  that  which  obliged  every  clan  to  preserve  its  history  and  re- 
cords. To  carry  this  peculiar  ordinance  into  eflect,  each  sept  maintained  a 
family  of  hereditary  historians,  by  whom  all  particulars  connected  with  the 
transactions  of  the  clan  were  committed  to  writing.  The  books  compiled  by 
those  chroniclers  became  of  the  greatest  importance,  as,  under  the  clan  system 
of  government,  every  individual,  in  order  to  establish  his  claim  to  a  portion 
of  the  general  possessions  of  the  tribe,  was  obliged  to  prove  his  consangiiiuity 
with  the  chief  families  of  the  district.  In  addition  to  the  history  and  genea- 
logies of  the  clans,  these  records  contained  precise  definitions  of  the  extent  and 
boundaries  of  their  territories,  and  a  careful  statement  of  the  amount  of  tribute 
due  to,  or  to  be  paid  by,  the  various  septs :  thus  forming,  as  it  were,  the 
charters  of  the  Irish  tribes,  by  an  appeal  to  which  all  questions  of  right  and 
precedence  were  finally  adjusted.  The  historians,  or  oUavs,  to  whom  the  care 
of  these  documents  was  intrusted,  formed  a  peculiar  and  privileged  class, 
maintained  in  a  degi'ce  of  considerable  splendour,  at  the  general  expense,  and 
enjoying  many  profitable  distinctions  and  immunities.  As  the  disunited  Irish 
clans  sank  before  the  concentrated  force  brought  against  them,  and  as  the 
power  of  England  gradually  extended  in  the  country,  it  became  the  policy  of 
the  more  unenlightened  and  short-sighted  of  the  successful  party  to  endeavour 
to  obliterate  every  trace  of  the  former  state  and  ancient  Celtic  institutions  of 
the  kingdom.  Hence,  the  old  historical  volumes,  written  in  the  Irish  lan- 
guage, were  industriously  sought  out  and  systematically  destroyed.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  i-epresentativcs  of  the  ancient  possessors  of  the  soil  laboured 
strenuously  to  preserve  the  venerable  documents,  which  contained,  as  it  were, 
their  title  deeds  and  the  history  of  their  fathers.  Numbers  of  these  manu- 
scripts were  conset^uently  carried  by  the  expatriated  Irish  to  foreign  lands, 
and  many  were  secreted  in  Ireland,  until  the  arrival  of  the  time  when  it  was 
expected  that  the  strange  colonists  should  be  expelled,  and  the  descendants 
of  the  old  proprietors  reinstated  in  the  possessions  wrested  from  their  ancles- 
tors.  Early  in  the  seventeenth  century,  the  contest  in  Ireland,  of  more  than 
four  hundred  years,  was  finally  decided.  The  last  sti-ongliolds  of  the  native 
clans  came  into  the  possession  of  foreign  settlers,  the  ancient  institutions  and 
most  cherished  customs  of  the  old  inhabitants  were  prescribed  under  heavy 
penalties,  and  the  Irish  Celts  and  the  descendants  of  the  Anglo-Norman  in- 
vaders began  to  find  themselves  strangers  and  outlaws  in  the  land  of  their 
fathers. 


THE  ANNALS  OF  THE  FOUR  MASTERS.        a 

It  was  at  tliis  ix'riod,  so  gloomy  for  the  "  chiklren  of  the  Gael,"  that 
Michael  O'Cleiy,  a  iriar  of  the  Order  of  St.  Francis,  formed  the  project  of 
compiling  a  body  of  Irish  Annals,  from  the  old  historical  books  still  remaining 
in  the  country. 

Stimulated  by  the  patronage  of  O'Gara,  chief  of  Coolavin,  -who  had  been 
one  of  the  earliest  students  in  the  newly-founded  University  of  Dublin,  ho 
associated  with  himself  Conary  and  Peregi-ine  O'Clery,  together  with  a  fourth 
antiquary,  named  Fearfeasa  O'Mulconry,  and  the  compilation  was  commenced 
in  1632,  and  brought  to  a  conclusion,  after  four  years'  labour,  amid  the  ruins 
of  the  convent  of  Donegal.  That  venerable  institution,  founded,  in  1474,  by 
one  of  the  munificent  princes  of  Tir  Connell,  had  been  dismantled,  and  con- 
verted into  a  royal  gan-ison,  during  the  wars  of  Elizabeth. 

The  peculiar  feature  of  these  Annals  is,  that  they  supply  us  with  a  calm 
chronological  account  of  the  great  Celtic  tiibes  who  for  so  many  ages  consti- 
tuted the  L'ish  nation,  and  whose  history — which,  until  the  commencement  of 
the  seventeenth  century,  is  the  history  of  Ireland — has  been  totally  and  de- 
signedly overlooked  by  English  writers.  In  the  works  of  such  authors,  the 
native  L-ish  clans  are  generally  represented  as  subjected  by  the  first  invasion 
of  the  Anglo-Normans ;  and  all  attempts  to  preserve  their  ancient  posses- 
sions, and  to  expel  intrusive  foreigners  from  their  territories,  are  invariably 
stigmatized  as  treason  and  rebellion.  The  native  septs  are  depicted  as  wrapped 
in  savagery  and  barbarism ;  wliile  the  most  exalted  virtues  are  ascribed  to 
their  opponents,  whose  successes,  however  trivial,  are  magnified  into  splendid 
victories  and  heroic  achievements.  Such  is  the  character  of  what  has  hitherto 
been  styled  the  history  of  Ireland. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  despoiled  Irish,  and  descendants  of  old  English, 
who  passed  into  the  service  of  foreign  princes,  found  but  little  time  for  literaiy 
occupations,  and  were  more  accustomed  to  wield  the  sword  than  the  pen. 
It  consequently  devolved  on  the  expatriated  ecclesiastics  to  narrate  the  details 
of  the  reverses  of  their  native  land.  Writing  under  jealous  censorship,  their 
judgments  obscured  by  professional  and  unavoidable  prejudices,  they  erred  in 
an  opposite  extreme,  and  laboured  to  prove  that  the  gallant  struggle  of  the 
Irish  clans  for  their  lands  and  ancient  institutions  was  a  war  undertaken  in 
defence  of  religion.  They  thus  endeavoured,  by  their  publications,  to  rouse 
the  Catholic  powers  of  Europe  to  take  up  arms  in  defence  of  the  Irish  and  old 
English,  whom,  not  without  a  certain  degree  of  justice,  they  represented  as 
suffering,  for  conscience  sake,  persecutions  nearly  as  severe  as  those  undergone 
by  the  primitive  Christians. 

Now,  however,  when,  after  the  lapse  of  centuries,  human  society  has  been 
set  on  an  entirely  new  basis,  and  the  fierce  passions,  which  agitated  the  men 
of  Europe  in  former  ages,  exist  but  in  the  records  of  the  past ;  when  the 
bloods  of  once  inimical  races  have  become  inseparably  commingled,  during  the 
successive  generations  which  have  passed  away  on  the  Irish  soil — once  the 


4  THE  ANNALS  OF  THE  FOUR  MASTERS. 

great  object  of  contention, — the  philosophic  mind  desires  to  inquire  into  the 
origin  and  progress  of  the  events  which  have  combined  to  produce  the  condi- 
tion in  which  we  find  this  island  at  present  placed. 

The  records,  moreover,  of  a  peculiar  branch  of  the  great  Celtic  family, 
which,  although  at  present  widely  scattered,  and  intermixed  with  the  various 
races  of  both  hemispheres,  still  continues  to  retain  and  forcibly  exhibit  many  of 
its  original  and  characteristic  attributes,  and  whence  lias  sprung  a  vast  pro- 
portion of  men,  world-famous  for  their  proficiency  in  every  branch  of  human 
knowledge  and  science,  cannot  fail  to  possess  attractions  for  the  student  of 
the  history  of  mankind. 

Much  as  the  credibility  of  the  bardic  legends  may  be  impugned,  it  is  cer- 
tain that  they  alone  afford  explanation  of  the  expressive  ancient  Celtic  names 
of  the  various  localities  of  the  country;  names  which  have  withstood  the  revo- 
lutions of  centuries,  and  which  will,  probably,  never  be  entirely  obliterated. 
The  Pagan  Irish  have,  however,  left  us  material  monuments  which  attest  their 
ancient  power  and  energy.  Such  are  tlie  forts  in  the  island  of  Arran,  the 
most  magnificent  barbaric  monuments  remaining  in  Europe,  and  the  cydo- 
pean  fortress  of  Aileach,  near  Derry.  The  erection  of  this  extraordinary  fort, 
which,  from  the  earliest  times  to  the  commencement  of  the  twelfth  century, 
was  the  residence  of  the  kings  of  the  north  of  Ireland,  is  attributed  to  the 
tribe  of  Dnnaans ;  and  it  is  believed  by  our  ablest  antiquaries  to  be  the 
locality  indicated  by  the  appropriate  title  of  Begia^  on  Ptulenij's  map  of 
Ire'  and. 

There  is  ample  documentary  evidence  to  demonstrate  that  Christianitj-  had 
made  some  progress,  and  that  there  were  bishops  in  Ireland,  before  the 
coming  of  St.  Patrick ;  and  tliat  the  spread,  of  the  Christian  religion  effected 
a  considerable  change  in  the  national  character. 

To  such  an  eminence  did  this  island  attain  during  these  early  ages,  for 
learning,  and  especially  for  profound  knowledge  of  the  Holy  Scriptin-es,  that 
her  schools  were  thronged  by  foreign  students,  who  received  gi-atuitous  enter- 
tainment and  instruction.  "  So  zealous  and  disinterested  a  love  of  learning  is," 
says  the  prejudiced  Ledwioh,  "  unparalleled  in  the  annals  of  the  world." 

The  fidelity  of  the  "  Four  Masters"  has  stood  the  test  of  time;  every  an- 
cient Celtic  manuscript,  and  every  oilicial  document,  discovered  by  our  lite- 
rary explorers,  tend  to  confirm  the  veracity  of  these  compilers.  But  for  the 
labours  of  the  poor  friars  of  Donegal,  a  vast  amount  of  om-  early  history 
would  have  inevitably  perished,  as  no  less  than  six  of  the  most  valuable  manu- 
scri[)ts  whence  they  drew  their  information  are  not  now  known  to  exist. 

The  "  Four  Masters,"  in  their  Annals,  fortunately  for  us,  transcribed  ver- 
batim the  passages  of  the  original  and  contenqioraneous  records;  their  work 
thus  becomes  of  the  utmost  value  to  tlie  philologcr,  in  tracing  the  language  at 
its  various  stages.  This,  however,  formed  one  of  the  chief  difiiculties  of  the 
Editor,  as  many  of  the  more  ancient  entries  are  written  in  ;i  dialect  so  Ion"- 


THE  ANNALS  OF  THE  FOUR  MASTERS.        5 

obsolete,  and  totally  incomprehensible  to  scholars  perfectly  conversant  with 
modern  Gaelic,  that  the  learned  Dr.  O'Conor  was,  in  many  instances,  obliged 
to  leave  words  and  even  whole  lines  untranslated.  It  is  a  proud  testimony  of 
Dr.  O'Donovan's  proficiency  in  our  ancient  dialects,  that  no  passage,  however 
obscure,  has  baffled  his  profound  knowledge.  Not  alone  content  with  giving 
us  a  rigid  and  exact  translation  of  his  original,  the  Etlitor  has  spared  no  la- 
bour to  collate  the  statements  of  the  "  blasters"  with  those  of  other  annals, 
and  we  find  that  his  notes,  in  general,  far  exceed  the  text.  All  printed  works, 
and  many  ancient  Celtic  manuscripts,  with  which  the  compilers  were  them- 
selves unacquainted,  have  been  made  ample  use  of.  The  topographical  por- 
tion of  the  work  is,  perhaps,  the  most  elaborate.  Of  the  innumerable  ancient 
places  refen-ed  to  by  the  Annalists,  but  few  remain  to  be  identified.  Nearly 
all  these  localities  were  personally  visited  and  inspected  by  the  Editor,  during 
his  engagement  on  the  Ordnance  Survey,  which  afforded  him  opportunities  of 
acquiring  precise  and  accurate  local  information,  which  will  probably  be  never 
again  aflbrded  to  the  historic  investigator.  He  has  also  made  a  most  impor- 
tant use  of  the  historical  traditions,  extant  some  time  ago  among  the  peasantry 
of  the  more  remote  districts,  but  now  totally  obliterated  by  the  late  sad  events 
which  have  ih-iven  their  exiled  depositories  to  strange  lands,  "far  away,  beyond 
the  Atlantic's  foam."  Nor  is  Dr.  O'Donovan's  genealogical  learning  less  re- 
markable. The  clearness  and  precision  with  Avhich  he  traces  the  various  ramifi- 
cations of  the  ancient  Irish  clans  and  their  representatives,  in  both  hemispheres, 
adducing  evidences  from  Celtic  records  which  would  be  totally  incomprehen- 
sible to  the  most  learned  "  Garter"  or  "  Clarenceux"  King  at  Arms, — the  in- 
teresting and  important  pedigrees  and  illustrative  genealogies,  not  elsewhere 
extant,  Avhich  he  has  embodied  in  his  notes  and  appendices,  may  well  serve  as 
models  for  a  College  of  Heralds.  In  the  present  age  of  superficial  historic 
works,  it  would  at  first  appear  incredible  that  a  single  scholar  should  have 
accomplished  so  vast  an  undci'taking ;  especially  when  we  recollect  that  he  has 
given  to  tlie  world  the  most  comprehensive  and  profound  treatise  extant  on 
the  lliberno-Celtic  language  ;*  and  his  invaluable  contributions  to  the  publi- 
cations of  the  Irish  Archajological  and  Celtic  Societies  extend  to  many  thou- 
sand pages.  It  would  be  unjust  to  compare  him  with  Du  Chesne,  Dom 
Bouquet,  Mabillon,  Muratori,  or  other  editors  of  Continental  historic  litera- 
ture. Their  path  was  smooth  in  comparison  to  the  labours  of  Dr.  O'Donovan. 
He  had  no  printed  precedents  to  guide  him,  save  such  as  were  calculated  to 
mislead  ;  no  comj^ilations  save  those  of  ignorant  and  delusive  writers.  He 
was  thus  obhged  to  contend  with  the  obscure  and  obsolete  idioms  of  a  pecuhar 
language,  and  to  seek  his  authorities  and  illustrations  among  our  unclassified 
and  unindexed  Celtic  monuments,  half  effaced  by  the  accidents  of  time,  and 
which  would  still  remain  unintelhgible  and  inaccessible  to  the  literary  investi- 

*  A  Grammar  of  the  Irish  Language,  publislicd  fur  the  use  of  the  Senior  Classes  in  the  Cullcirc  of 
St.  Columbn.     DuUin  :  Hodges  and  Smith,  lí^.i. 


6        THE  ANNALS  OF  THE  FOUR  MASTERS. 

gator,  ])ut  for  the  labours  of  hiniself  and  his  erudite  associate,  Eugene  Curry. 
In  fine,  whether  we  regard  the  industry  and  impartiality  of  the  original  com- 
pilers, the  immense  learning  and  extensive  researches  of  the  Editor,  or  the 
exquisite  typogi-aphy  of  the  volumes,  it  must  be  admitted  that  these  Annals, 
as  edited  by  Dr.  John  O'Donovan,  form  one  of  the  most  remarkable  works 
yet  produced  on  the  history  of  any  portion  of  the  British  Isles.  The  mass  of 
information  which  they  embody  constitute  a  collection  of  national  records,  the 
value  of  which  can  never  be  superseded.  To  the  student  desirous  of  obtaining 
a  correct  knowledge  of  the  history  of  the  Hiberno-Celtic  race,  the  work  is  in- 
dispensable :  while  in  it  only  will  the  philologer  find  materials  for  tracing  the 
progress  and  various  stages  of  the  last  remnant  of  the  Indo-European  language. 
Standing  thus  alone,  it  must  maintain  a  high  place  among  the  great  literary 
monuments  of  the  world,  so  long  as  the  study  of  history  continues  to  retain  the 
charms  which  it  has  ever  possessed  for  men  of  cultivated  and  philosophic  minds. 
To  the  Publishers  of  the  "  Annals  of  the  Four  INIasters,"  Irish  historic  literature 
has  been  long  under  many  and  deep  obligations.  To  their  exertions  may  be 
traced,  if  not  the  origin,  at  least  much  of  the  success  which  has  attended  the 
exertions  of  our  literary  societies,  and  we  have  elsewhere  spoken  of  the  large 
number  of  invaluable  Celtic  documents  which  but  for  them  would  have  passed 
out  of  our  country.  At  a  period  of  unexampled  commercial  prostration  and 
disaster,  and  when,  esjiecially  in  Ireland,  the  social  system  was  shaken  to  its 
foundation,  making  personal  interest  a  secondary  consideration,  they  have  again 
come  forward  to  demand  national  gratitude  by  the  publication  of  the  greatest 
original  work  which  has  ever  issued  from  the  Irish  press.  No  costly  accessory 
has  been  omitted  to  render  the  work  worthy  of  the  high  position  which  its 
contents  demand,  or  to  make  it  a  monument  of  our  country's  literature,  to  be 
transmitted  with  pride  to  future  generations,  who  will  feel  grateful  to  all 
whose  names  are  connected  with  the  preservation  of  the  venerable  but  fast- 
decaying  monuments  of  the  history  of  their  fetherland. 

In  our  necessarily  compendious  notice  of  the  rich  and  varied  contents  of 
Dr.  O'Donovan's  translation  of  the  "  Annals  of  Ireland,  by  the  Four  INIasters," 
we  have  endeavoured,  as  far  as  practicable,  to  use  the  language  of  original  and 
contemporary  writers,  intentionally  eschewing  minute  criticisms  and  arid 
disrpiisltions.  We  believe  that  the  true  object  of  history  is  to  exhibit  faithful 
pictures  of  the  men  of  past  ages,  as  thoy  lived  and  acted,  with  all  their  original 
and  characteristic  attributes,  free  from  the  gloss  of  specious  exaggeration,  and 
unincumbered  by  those  shallow  philosoi)hic  speculations,  so  often  delusive. 
Hence,  the  peculiar  value  of  the  "Annals  of  the  Four  Masters,"  in  presenting 
us  with  unadorned  and  truthful  narratives,  related  in  the  very  language  si)oken 
by  the  men  whose  acts  they  chronicle,  unvarnished  and  unafiected  by  the  con- 
taminating infiuences  of  adventitious  foreign  models. 


THE  ANNALS  OF  THE  FOUR  MASTERS.  7 

(From  the  Dublin  University  Magazine.) 

After  having  so  lately  noticed  the  learned  work  of  Mr.  Reeves,  it  is  with 
extraordinary  satisfaction  and  pleasure  we  undertake  the  duty  of  making  our 
readers  acquainted  with  the  far  greater  and  still  more  erudite  labours  of  Mr. 
O'Donovan.  Our  satisfaction  is  of  a  high  and  ennobling  kind,  for  it  is  chiefly 
on  account  of  the  country  itself  that  we  feel  it.  In  comparing  these  works  to 
the  points  of  the  coral  reef,  coming  up  to  light  after  labours  so  great  and  so 
long  hidden,  prosecuted  in  the  depths  of  the  sea,  and  perfected  in  the  midst  of 
elemental  conflict,  we  suggest  no  exaggerated  idea  of  the  patient  toil  of  which 
the  results  are  thus,  at  length,  beginning  to  make  themselves  visible  amongst 
us.  Mr.  Petrie  toiled  for  twelve  years  in  his  Essay  on  the  Ecclesiastical  Archi- 
tecture and  Round  Towers  of  Ireland  ;  Mr.  Reeves  began  to  work  on  Pope 
Clement's  Taxation  three  years  since ;  it  is  eighteen  years  since  Mr.  O'Dono- 
van commenced  his  exposition  and  translation  of  the  Annals  of  the  Four 
Masters ;  and  here,  at  length,  we  have  his  book,  in  seven  quarto  volumes, — in 
matter,  in  learned  use  of  it,  in  method,  and  in  typographical  excellence,  fit  to 
take  its  place  on  any  shelf  of  any  European  library,  beside  Camden,  INIabellin, 
or  Muratori.  The  fame  of  these  Annals  has  been  so  widely  circulated  of  late 
years,  that  we  need  not  do  more  than  commend  them,  on  the  one  hand,  to  our 
scholars  and  historians,  and,  on  the  other,  to  our  young  poets,  as  mines  of  rich 
intellectual  ore. 


(Front  the  Dublin  Review.) 

For  our  own  part,  even  in  a  professed  critical  notice,  we  can  but  hope, 
within  the  limited  space  at  our  disposal,  to  render  a  scanty  and  imperfect 
measure  of  justice  to  a  work  of  such  vast  extent  and  of  so  various  and  profound 
erudition.  It  might  appear  at  first  sight,  however,  that  the  task  of  editing  a 
work  in  which  the  Editor  has  had  the  advantage  of  more  than  one  authentic 
copy  of  the  autograph  IMSS.  could  not  have  presented  many  difliculties,  at  least 
difficulties  of  a  serious  kind.  If  any  person  be  disposed  to  entertain  the  idea, 
we  would  beg  of  him  to  examine  almost  every  single  page  out  of  the  four  thou- 
sand one  hundred  of  which  the  work  consists,  in  order  that  he  may  learn  what  is 
the  true  nature  and  extent  of  Mr.  O'Donovan's  editorial  labours.  Let  him 
see  the  numberless  minute  verbal  criticisms ;  the  elaborate  topographical  an- 
notations with  which  each  page  is  loaded ;  the  histoi'ical,  genealogical,  and 
biographical  notices  ;  the  lucid  and  ingenious  illustrations  drawn  from  the  an- 
cient laws,  customs,  traditions,  and  institutions  of  Ireland ;  the  parallelisms 
and  discrepancies  of  the  narrative  with  that  of  other  annalists,  both  native  and 
foreign ;  the  countless  authorities  which  are  examined  and  adjusted  ;  the  er- 
rors which  are  corrected  ;  the  omissions  and  deficiencies  supj)lied :   in  a  word. 


8  THE  ANXALS  OF  THE  FOUR  :\IASTERS. 

the  curious  and  various  learning  which  is  everywhere  disphiyed.  I^t  him  re- 
member that  the  mines  from  which  all  those  treasures  have  been  tlrawn  are,  for 
the  most  part,  unexplored  ;  that  the  materials  thus  lavishly  applied  to  the  illus- 
trations of  the  text  are  in  great  part  manuscripts, — manuscripts,  too,  which 
Ussher  and  Ware,  even  AVaddy  and  Colgan,  not  to  speak  of  L}nch  and  Lani- 
gan,  had  never  seen,  or  had  left  unexamined ;  many  of  them  in  a  language 
which  is,  to  a  great  extent,  obsolete.  Let  him  remember  this,  and  he  will  un- 
derstand without  difficulty  the  long  and  toilsome  preparation  which  has  been 
expended  on  this  admirable  work,  and  will  cease  to  wonder  how,  commenced 
in  January,  1832,  it  is  only  after  fifteen  or  eighteen  j-ears  of  patient  study  and 
investigation  that  it  is  at  last  given  to  the  public. 


,!&/- 


