Scanned  from  the  collections  of 
The  Library  of  Congress 


AUDIO-VISUAL  CONSERVATION 
at  The  LIBRARY  of  CONGRESS 


Packard  Campus 

for  Audio  Visual  Conservation 

www.loc.gov/avconservation 

Motion  Picture  and  Television  Reading  Room 
www.loc.gov/rr/mopic 

Recorded  Sound  Reference  Center 
www.loc.gov/rr/record 


<?U8d£H£R'S  BINDItfG 


5-/JAN13 

Copy-^-1 


JRAMO 


ML 

Meet  Millie's  Mama 

Robert  Q.  lewis 

Warren  Hull 

Bing  Crosby 

ly  Rosemary  Clooney 

• 

N.  Y.  radio, 

TV  listings 


i6*"*'*. 


A. 


Godfrey 


Babies  have  That  Ivory  Look  .  .  .  why  shouldn't  you? 
Mildness — that's  the  secret  of  Ivory's  beauty  care. 
Reassuring,  reliable  mildness.  So  gentle  on  a  baby's 
skin — so  right  for  yours.  You  know,  more  doctors 
advise  Ivory  for  your  complexion  than  any  other  soap! 


You're  more  exciting  when  you  have  That  Ivory  Lo'&k ! 
A  radiant  complexion  rates  attention — and  it's  so  easy 
to  have!  Simply  change  to  regular  care — using  pure, 
mild  Ivory  Soap.  In  7  days,  your  skin  will  look  fresher 
— actually  younger!  You'll  have  That  Ivory  Look. 


That 
Ivory 
Look 


Young  America  has  it... 
You  can  have  it  in  7 days! 


99,lt%  pure.it  floats 


More  doctors  advise  Ivory  than  any  other  soap 


JANUARY,  1955 


W  RADIO 
MIRROR 

1 1  Keystone  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


VOL.  43,  NO.  2 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Editorial  Assistant 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Betty  Mills,  West  Coast  Editor 


people  on  the  air 


What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  4 

October  Winners  of  Beat  The  Clock's  Exciting  Big  Contest 17 

Season's  Greetings  from  Arthur  Godfrey by  Martin  Cohen  19 

When  A  Star  Marries  (Mary  Jane  Higby) by  Frances  Kish  22 

How  to  Strike  It  Rich  in  1955  (Warren  Hull) by  Lilla  Anderson  24 

Little  Girl  Lonely  (Jean  Mowry) by  Gregg  Martin  26 

We're  Really  Living! by  Kenny  Baker  28 

The  Youngest  Pioneer  (Dennis  James) by  Helen  Bolstad  30 

A  Pretty  Wonderful  Guy  (Grant  Sullivan ) by  Gregory  Merwin  38 

Every  Girl  a  Fashion  Queen by  Jeanne  Cagney  48 

Peter  Donald's  Masquerade  Party by  Eleanor  Pollock  50 

Who's  Who  on  Armstrong  Circle  Theater    (Tony  Randall,  Carmen 

Mathews,  Walter  Abel) 52 

Laughter  Across  the  Seas  (Robert  Q.  Lewis) by  Philip  Chapman  54 

A  Sterling  Fisherman  (Jack  Sterling) 56 

Kit  Carson  Finds  his  Mate  (Bill  Williams) by  Betty  Mills  58 


features  in  full  color 


Millie's  Mama by  Florence  Halop  34 

There's  Only  One  Bing!  (Bing  Crosby) by  Rosemary  Clooney  36 

Two  and  Two  Make  Heaven by  Mrs.  Ted  Steele  40 

Lorenzo  Jones  (picture  story  from  the  popular  daytime  drama) 42 


your  local  station 


The  Boy  Next  Door  (WABC) 6 

King  of  Music    (WJAR) 8 

Mighty  Like  a  Texan  (WCBS) 12 

The  Children's  Hour  (WRCA,  WRCA-TV) 16 


your  special  services 


New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 2 

Steve  Allen's  Turntable 10 

Information  Booth 14 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings) 60 

TV  Program  Highlights 62 

Daytime  Diary 65 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 86 

Cover  portrait  of  Arthur  Godfrey  by  George  Hurrell 


buy  your  February  copy  early  •  on  sale  January  6 


PUBLISHED   MONTHLY   by  Macfadden  Publications,   Inc.,  New 

York,    N.    Y. 

EXECUTIVE,    ADVERTISING     AND     EDITORIAL    OFFICES     at 

205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y.  Editorial  Branch 
Offices:  321  South  Beverly  Drive,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.,  and 
221  North  La  Salle  Street,  Chicago,  111.  Harold  A.  Wise, 
Chairman  of  the  Board;  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President; 
Lee  Andrews,  Vice  President;  Meyer  Dworkin,  Secretary 
and  Treasurer.  Advertising  offices  also  In  Chicago  and  San 
Francisco. 


CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When  pos- 
sible, please  furnish  stencil-impression  address  from  a  re- 
cent issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only  if  you  send  us 
your  old.  as  well  as  your  new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:   All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  considered. 

Member   of   The   TRUE 


but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or  damage.  It 
Is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self-addressed 
return  envelopes  or  with  sufficient  return  postage  will  be 
returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17, 
N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Douglas  Lockhart, 
Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954,  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3, 
1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mall,  P.O.  Dept.,  Ottawa, 
Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1954  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc. 
All  rights  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention. 
All  rights  reserved  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion. Todos  derechos  reservados  segun  La  Convencion  Pan- 
Americana  de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Co. 
STORY   Women's  Group 


COMING 
NEXT  MONTH 


Janette 
Davis 


Exclusive!  Colorful  pictures  of  a 
colorful  songstress,  fascinating  visit 
— by  word  and  camera — in  the 
charming  home  of  a  real  home  girl 


Florian 
ZaBach 


He  wanted  to  be  a  stage  magician 
but  now  he  works  true  enchantment 
on  the  strings  of  his  violin — and 
the    strings    of    a    nation's    heart 


A  baby  for  Our  Miss  Brooks  (Mrs. 
Brooks  West,  that  is)  has  made  a 
tender  dream  come  true,  in  a  home 
that  was  made  for  happy  children 


February 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 
on  sale  January  6 


MEW! 

DOCTOR'S 
DEODORANT 
DISCOVERY 

SAFELY  STOPS  ODOR 
24  HOURS  A  DAY! 


I 


i 


Proved  in  underarm  comparison  tests  made 

by  a  doctor.  Deodorant  without  M-3,  tested 
under  one  arm,  stopped  perspiration  odor 
only  a  few  hours.  New  Mum  with  M-3, 
tested  under  other  arm,  stopped  odor  a 
full  24  hours. 


New  Mum  with  M-3 

won't  irritate  normal  skin 

or  damage  fabrics 

1 .  *Exclusive  deodorant  based  originally  on  doc- 
tor's discovery,  now  contains  long-lasting  M-3 
(Hexachlorophene). 

2.  Stops  odor  all  day  long  because  invisible 
M-3  clings  to  your  skin— keeps  on  destroying 
odor  bacteria  a  full  24  hours. 

3.  Non-irritating  to  normal  skin.  Use  it  daily. 
Only  leading  deodorant  containing  no  strong 
chemical  astringents— will  not  block  pores. 

4.  Won't  rot  or  discolor  fabrics— certified  by 
American  Institute  of  Laundering. 

5.  Delicate  new  fragrance.  Creamier  texture- 
new  Mum  won't  dry  out  in  the  jar. 

NEK/MUM. 

cream  deodorant 
with  long- 
lasting  M-3  W 

(IIICXACHI.OROPHENE)  -^%fc  / 


NEW  PATTERNS 

FOR  YOU   »£*oi* 


9104 

SIZES 
14'/2-24'/2 


A  PRODUCT  OF  BRISTOL-MYERS 


9104 — Diagonally-tucked  bodice,  graceful 
gored  skirt  for  a  slimming  effect.  Smart 
style  for  the  shorter,  fuller  figure.  Half- 
Sizes  141/^-241/4.  Size  I6V2  takes  4%  yards 
39-inch  fabric.    35<S 

4705 — Mom-to-be:  Whip  up  a  new  top  or 
skirt  in  a  day  with  this  sew-easy  pattern. 
Misses'  Maternity  Sizes  12-20.  Size  16 
skirt  takes  2  yards  of  35-inch  fabric;  top 
with  pockets,  3  yards,  %  yard  contrast.  35$ 

9295 — The  new  line  of  this  casual  does 
beautiful  things  for  your  figure.  The  8- 
gore  skirt  makes  your  waist  look  so  small. 

Misses'  Sizes  12-20;  40.  Size  16  takes  4% 
yards  35-inch  fabric.    35$ 


Send  thirty-five  cents   (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to: 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  Pattern  Department, 
P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York. 


NAME.... 
ADDRESS. 


CITY. 


STATE 

\dd  five  cents    for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing 


9500    SKIN    TESTS    PROVE... 

Palmolive  Soap  Is  Mildest! 
Better  for  Complexioii  Care ! 

BETTER  THAN   ANY  LEADING  TOILET   SOAP... 
FLOATING   SOAP...  EVEN  COLD  CREAM  ! 


Skin  Specialists  Agree:  Milder  Cleansing  is  Better  fbrlfour  Complexion! 


A  mild  soap  means:  less  irritation...  more  gentle  cleansing... 
softer,  smoother  skin.  Palmolive  brings  you  all  these  benefits 
— yes,  Palmolive  is  better  for  skin  care  .  .  .  because  it's  the 
mildest  of  them  all.  That's  why  no  other  leading  soap  or  cold 
cream  gets  skin  thoroughly  clean  as  gently  as  Palmolive! 


So  change  todayto  Palmolive's  Beauty  Plan.  ..gently  massage 
Palmolive's  lather  onto  your  skin  for  60  seconds,  3  times  a 
day.  Rinse;  pat  dry.  In  14  days  or  less,  see  if  you  don't  have 
softer,  smoother,  brighter  skin — that  Schoolgirl  Complexion 
Look!  Palmolive  is  the  mildest — far  better  for  complexion  care! 


LOOK  AT  THE  FACTS  — PROVED  BY  9500   SKIN  TESTS 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 
Milder  than  Any  Other  Leading 
Beauty  Soap  or  Castile  Soap! 


Palmolive  is  Proved 

Milder  than  Leading  White 

Floating  Soaps  or  Deodorant  Soaps! 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 

Even  Milder  than  America's  Leading 

Cold  Creams! 


PALMOLIVE  SOAP  HELPS  YOU  GUARD  THAT  SCHOOLGIRL  COMPLEXION  LOOK ! 


•  By  JILL  WARREN 


A  darkened  studio,  a  piano  and  coffee-break  help   Frank 
Sinatra  set  the  mood  for  his  popular  15-minute  NBC  show. 


"Brightest  Day"  for  CBS  starlet  Mary  Linn  Beller  (Babby) 
came  recently  when  she  was  married  to  Robert  Pitofsky. 
When  he  said  "I  do,"  Robert  happily  gave  up  his  active 
status  as  vice-president  of  Bachelors  Club  of  America. 


Freeman    "Amos"    Gosden    and    Charles    "Andy"    Correll 
rehearse  for  their  Christmas  rendition  of  The  Lord's  Prayer. 


WHATS  NEW  FROM 


There's  good  reason  for  NBC-TV's 
excitement  over  plans  for  its  big 
Christmas  day  extravaganza — "Peter 
Pan,"  starring  Mary  Martin.  However, 
it  will  have  to  be  a  cut-down  version 
of  the  stage  production,  which  runs 
three  hours.  According  to  present  plans, 
"Peter"  will  most  likely  be  televised 
from  the  theater  where  it  is  playing, 
because  of  the  many  involved  mechan- 
ics of  the  play. 

CBS-TV's  big  Yuletide  offering  is 
Dickens'  "Christmas  Carol,"  which  will 
be  seen  Thursday,  December  23.  Max- 
well Anderson  has  done  a  musical 
adaptation  of  this  famous  classic,  and 


the  big  cast  will  include  Fredric  March 
as  Scrooge,  Basil  Rathbone  as  Marley's 
Ghost,  Christopher  Cook  as  Tiny  Tim, 
Ray  Middleton  as  the  nephew,  Bob 
Sweeney  as  Cratchett. 

"Amahl  and  the  Night  Visitors,"  by 
Gian-Carlo  Menotti,  will  be  presented 
on  NBC-TV,  for  the  fifth  consecutive 
year,  on  Sunday,  December  19.  Also 
doing  a  repeat,  on  CBS  Radio,  Decem- 
ber 19,  will  be  Amos  'n'  Andy,  with 
their  now-famous  version  of  the  Lord's 
Prayer.  And  Gene  Autry,  who  will  tell 
the  story  of  the  Nativity,  as  he  did  last 
year,  will  be  heard  on  CBS  Radio  the 
same  day. 


Preparing  for  its  role  on  the  Sunday 
before  Christmas,  the  New  York  Phil- 
harmonic Symphony  has  programmed 
Brahms'  "Requiem,"  with  Bruno  Walter 
conducting,  and  featuring  guest  soloists. 
During  the  intermission  time,  James 
Fassett  will  narrate  "A  Carol  Is  Born," 
the  story  of  the  composition,  "Silent 
Night."  He  will  also  play  the  late 
Madame  Ernestine  Schumann-Heink's 
original  recording  of  the  selection,  made 
many  years  ago. 

"The  Women" — by  Clare  Boothe 
Luce — which  was  a  hit  Broadway  show 
and  also  a  hit  movie,  will  be  performed 
on   the   Producers'  Showcase   Monday 


Happy  seventh  birthday  to  Kukla,  Fran  And  Ollie  and,  of  course,  Burr  Tillstrom.  The  lovable  group  celebrated  in  fitting 
style  in  October.  Naturally,  Ollie  could  hardly  wait  for  the  camera  to  click  so  he  could  dive  into  the  you-know-what. 


night,  December  13,  over  NBC-TV, 
with  an  all-star  cast. 

The  Best  of  Broadway  series,  on 
CBS-TV,  has  scheduled  another  famous 
play  for  their  January  5  production: 
"Arsenic  and  Old  Lace,"  starring 
Helen  Hayes,  Billie  Burke  and  Boris 
Karloff.  The  February  presentation  on 
this  once-a-month  show  may  be  "The 
Petrified  Forest,"  with  Humphrey  Bo- 
gart  making  his  TV  dramatic  debut. 

David  Wayne's  situation-comedy 
show,  Norby,  is  all  set  to  go:  January  5 
is  the  date  of  the  first  one,  on  NBC-TV. 
Wayne  took  a  leave  of  absence  from  the 
Broadway  hit,  "Teahouse  of  the  August 


Moon,"  in  order  to  film  this  series — 
which,  incidentally,  was  shot  in  color. 

Liberace — just  about  the  most  popu- 
lar man  in  show  business  today — is 
expanding  his  career  to  the  movies  and, 
according  to  his  fans,  it's  high  time.  He 
and  Warner  Brothers  have  set  a  deal 
for  him  to  star  in  a  series  of  pictures. 
His  first  one  is  scheduled  to  go  into 
production  in  a  few  months.  Liberace 
has  said  he  does  not  want  to  do  a  film 
based  on  his  life,  but  would  prefer  to 
portray  a  person  like  himself  in  his 
initial  movie.  In  that  way  he  feels  he 
won't  be  a  one-picture  star. 

My  Friend  Irma  may  soon  be  back 


on  television — under  the  title  My  Wife 
Irma.  Cy  Howard,  who  created,  wrote 
and  produced  the  original  Irma  series, 
is  preparing  to  film  the  new  one  in 
association  with  CBS.  Marie  Wilson 
will  be  Irma  again,  but  the  role  of  her 
husband  has  not  been  set  as  yet. 

This   'n'   That: 

The  stork  paid  a  visit,  on  October  24, 
to  Dorothy  Collins  and  Raymond  Scott 
and  presented  them  with  a  daughter — 
which  means  Dorothy  will  be  returning 
to  Your  Hit  Parade  in  the  near  future. 

Congratulations  to  Kukla,  Fran  And 
Ollie,   which    (Continued   on   page    7) 


The  Boy 
Next  Door 

That's  personable  Mort  Lindsey, 

who's  finding  fame  and  good  fortune  as 

Martin  Block's  neighbor  at  WABC 


He's  smiling  because  he  has  access  to  Martin  Block's 
60,000-plus  record  collection.  Below:  Using  his  kitchen 
table  as  a  desk,  Mort  does  a  lot  of  musical  arranging. 


Mort  receives  the  opening  theme  for  his  show  from  Martin  Block. 


While  some  people  strike  oil  or  discover  uranium, 
Mort  Lindsey  feels  he  has  them  all  beat  as 
"disk-jockey  student"  under  the  "Dean  of  Disc  Jockeys" 
himself,  Martin  Block.  .  .  .  Mort,  who  admits  he's 
the  luckiest  guy  in  the  platter-spinning  world  to  have 
his  program  produced  by  Block,  hosts  a  combination 
deejay-piano-and-song  show,  The  Boy  Next  Door,  over 
Station  WABC,  New  York,  from  1:30  to  2:30  P.M.— a 
pleasant,  tune-filled  curtain-raiser  to  Block's 
famous  Make-Believe  Ballroom.  .  .  .  Seated  at  the 
piano,  the  genial  Mr.  Lindsey  dabbles  at  the  keys  as  he 
chats  about  matters  musical.   Then  he  spins  a  Sinatra 
ballad,  an  Ella  Fitzgerald  blues  number,  or  something 
in  the  Mantovani  style.    Highlight  of  the  show 
comes  when  Mort  croons  a  tune  himself — which  is  not 
unusual  for  a  fellow  who's  made  quite  a  few  records  of 
his  own.  For  a  finishing  touch,  Mort  often  shares 
his  WABC  mike  with  in-person  stars  such  as  Toni 
Arden,  Johnny  Desmond  and  Archie  Bleyer.  .  .  .  Being 
a  deejay  is  something  new  for  Mort,  though  his 
background  has  always  been  "music,  music,  music." 
His  mother,  a  school  teacher,  aroused  his  interest 
in  the  piano  when  he  was  eight  and  he  continued  his 
training  until  he  entered  Columbia  University. 
There,  Mort  wrote  the  1942  varsity  show,   "Saints 
Alive,"   and  was  voted   the   "most   talented   student" 
after  winning  the  Fred  Allen  College  Talent  Hunt. 
.  .  .  After  a  stint  in  the  Air  Force,  Mort  earned  his 
Master's  Degree  in  Music.  In  1946,  he  formed  a  trio  and 
starred  at  Morey  Amsterdam's  Playgoer's  Club  before 
joining  Paul  Whiteman's  orchestra  at  New  York's 
Capitol  Theater.  Next  came  radio  and  TV  network  jobs: 
directing  music  for  The  Andy  and  Delia  Russell  Show, 
arranging  music  for  Arthur  Godfrey  and  Archie 
Bleyer,  and  lending  his  keyboard  talents  to  the  shows 
of  Morton  Downey,  Robert  Q.  Lewis,  and  Paul 
Winchell,  among  others.  .  .  .  His  "turn  for  the  best" 
came  last  May,  when  Martin  Block  recognized  Mort's 
deejay  potential  and  signed  him  on  as  The  Boy  Next 
Door.  .  .  .  Off-mike,  Mort  keeps  house  for  himself.  Just 
one  look  at  his  place  and  you  know  there's  a  "man 
about  music"  living  there.   The  piano,  couch  and 
kitchen  table  are  all  strewn  with  sheet  music, 
awaiting  Mort's  gifted  hand  at  arranging.   All  in  all,  it's 
no  wonder  that  Mort  has  become  The  Boy  Next 
Door — not  only  to  Block,  but  to  thousands  of  WABC 
listeners  who  like  his  pleasant,  relaxed  musical  manners. 


WHAT'S  NEW 

(Continued  from  page  5) 

recentl\'  celebrated  its  seventh  birthday. 
Since  its  debut  in  Chicago  as  a  local  chil- 
dren's show,  Burr  Tilstrom's  cast  of  popu- 
lar little  characters  have  become  adult  fa- 
vorites as  well.  During  its  seven  years  on 
television,  the  program  has  received  fifty- 
four  national  and  regional  awards. 

Also  celebrating  an  anniversary — a 
twenty-five-year  one — is  The  Children's 
Hour,'  which  began  as  a  local  broadcast  in 
Philadelphia  and  is  now  simulcast  over 
Stations  WRCA  and  WRCA-TV.  The  Chil- 
dren's Hour  and  its  originator  and  director, 
Alice  Clements,  have  given  a  start  to 
"kiddie"  stars  such  as  Eileen  Barton,  Ezra 
Stone,  Kitty  Kallen,  Arnold  Stang,  among 
many  others. 

Albert  Mitchell,  the  original  "Answer 
Man"  on  radio,  passed  away  a  few  weeks 
ago  at  his  home  in  Paris,  France.  Mitchell 
started  his  program  in  New  York  in  1937 
and  was  heard  regularly  until  1950,  when 
he  went  to  Paris  to  work  for  a  Marshall 
Plan  agency. 

George  Burns  and  Gracie  Allen  have  ar- 
ranged to  have  life  insurance  policies  writ- 
ten for  all  employees  of  their  McCadden 
Productions,  without  cost  to  the  employees. 
George  said  the  move  was  in  line  with  a 
long-range  plan  to  build  up  a  permanent 
staff  and  crew  for  their  telefilms,  and, 
"This  is  our  way  of  showing  how  much  we 
value  their  talents." 

Lots  of  romantic  news  this  month.  Ben 
Grauer,  long  considered  one  of  the  most 
eligible  single  men  in  broadcasting — and 
also  one  of  the  most  popular — finally  took 
himself  a  bride.  She's  pretty  Melanie 
Kahane,  one  of  New  York's  famous  decora- 
tors. They  were  wed  in  Manhattan  and 
then  sailed  for  a  whirlwind  four-week 
honeymoon  in  Europe. 

Joan  Davis'  daughter,  Beverly  Wills — 
who  married  Lt.  Alan  Grossman — is  now 
living  in  Ft.  Lewis,  Washington.  Beverly 
decided  to  give  up  her  career  in  favor  of 
being  a  housewife,  so  now  Mama  Davis  has 
to  find  a  new  girl  to  play  her  sister  on  I 
Married  Joan.  Because  the  show  is  filmed 
far  in  advance,  Beverly  will  still  be  seen 
a  few  more  times. 

It  looks  like  we're  losing  our  crooners  to 
matrimony,  too.  Vic  Damone  and  actress 
Pier  Angeli  will  probably  be  married  by 
the  time  you  read  this.  Though  their 
courtship  was  a  whirlwind  one,  they  have 
known  each  other  for  over  two  years.  The 
young  couple  plan  to  live  in  Beverly  Hills 
and  have  rented  a  house  there  with  an  op- 
tion to  buy  it. 

Eddie  Fisher  and  Debbie  Reynolds  have 
told  friends  that  they  will  probably  post- 
pone their  wedding  until  both  of  them  can 
get  away  from  their  respective  jobs  long 
enough  to  take  a  honeymoon  trip. 

One  of  the  happiest  married  couples  in 
Hollywood — Eve  Arden  and  Brooks  West — 
recently  welcomed  their  first  baby,  who 
weighed  in  at  nine  pounds  and  answers  to 
the  name  of  Douglas  Brooks.  The  Wests  al- 
ready have  three  adopted  children. 

Ralph  Edwards  was  very  grieved  by  the 
sudden  death  of  his  producer,  Al  Paschall, 
at  the  age  of  thirty-seven,  following  an  op- 
eration. Paschall  and  Edwards  had  been 
close  friends  and  partners  since  the  early 
days  of  Edwards'  fantastic  career. 

Sad,  too,  was  the  passing  of  Lee  Bennett, 
an  NBC  announcer  in  Chicago,  and  well- 
known  in  broadcasting  circles  there.  Many 
will  remember  Lee  from  his  musical  career 
when  he  was  a  popular  singer  with  Jan 
Garber's  orchestra  in  the  Thirties,  and  later 
when  he  fronted  his  own  band. 

Howdy  Doody  had  a  mammoth  party  a 
few    weeks    ago,    (Continued    on   page   9) 


The  "Inside"  Story  of 
Fabulous  Playtex  Girdles/ 


k     *     •  News  from  Playtex  .  i.  world's  largest-selling  girdles  *     *     * 


This  is  the  Magic-Controller  with  the  non- 
roll  top  .  .  .  one  of  the  famous  Playtex 
Girdles.  It  has  magic  fingers  to  gracefully 

control  your  figure  for  every  whim  of  fashion.'      tu  - 

oo  k 

TWe  j  that   way,    Playtex   offers 

[clothes.  J  you  a  full   line  of   briefs 

'news:   It  not j and  girdles  with  latex  on 

[y  'washes   in   seconds— j  the  outside  and  fabric  on 


The  one  and  only  Girdle  with 
figure -molding  latex  outside. . . 
kitten-soft  fabric  inside...  and  not  a 
single  stitch,  seam  or  bone  anywhere.1 


r 


P.S.  You'll  love  the  new 
playtex  Living  bra/  It's 
"custom-contoured"  of 
elastic  and  nylon  to  flatter,      31 
feel  and  fit  as  if  fashioned 
for  you  alone!  Only  $3.95 

•U.S.A.  and  Foreign  Patents  Pending 


No  other  girdles  whittle  away  so  many- 
inches,  yet  feel  so  comfortable/  Only  Playtex® 
has  the  slimming  power  of  latex  outside 
plus  the  comfort  of  kitten-soft  fabric  inside. 
Washes  in  seconds  and  you  can  practically 
watch  it  dry.  Freedom-giving  Playtex 
Girdles  control  those  "Calorie-Curves".  .  . 
give  you  that  slimmer-trimmer  look, 
no  matter  what  your  size! 

playtex  fabric  lined  Girdles  &  Briefs ...  from  $4.9o 
Known  everywhere  as  the  girdle  in  the  SLIM  tube— 
at  department  stores  and  better  specialty  shops. 


©1954  International  tatex  Corporation  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Dover  Del 
In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont. 


King  of  Music 

An  easygoing,  natural  charm 
makes  Johnny  King  a  royal 
favorite  with  WJAR  listeners 


Genial  Johnny  King,  whom  Rhode  Islanders  welcomed  home  last 
year,  interviews  Miss  America  of   1954,  the  lovely  Evelyn  Ay. 


Last  year,  while  London  turned 
.  itself  upside  down  in  coronation 
festivities,  Rhode  Island  was 
going  quietly  enthusiastic  about  a 
regal  celebration  of  its  own.  Johnny 
King's  talent,  charm  and  dynamic 
personality  are  native  products,  and 
it  was  a  crowning  day  indeed  when 
he  came  home  to  reign  at  Station 
WJAR  as  host  of  Luncheon  A  La 
King,  weekdays  at  1  P.M.,  and  This 
Is  Your  Tune,  Saturdays  at  8: 30  P.M. 
Johnny's  own  biggest  day  occurred 
in   1929   when  he   started   his   radio 


career  as  a  tenor  for  WJAR — and 
got  married  at  the  same  time.  As  a 
teenager,  Johnny  had  a  saxophone, 
his  best  pal  had  the  victrola,  and 
practice  sessions  were  held  at  the 
friend's  home.  At  first,  Johnny 
didn't  pay  much  attention  to  kid 
sister  Viola  who  served  the  refresh- 
ments. Then  one  day  he  took  a  long 
look  at  the  cute  little  brunette  and 
said,  "You  know,  you  could  cook  for 
me  for  the  rest  of  my  life." 

Having  his  wife  with  him  as  he 
travelled  about  the  country,  singing 


Whether   it's   relaxing   in   their  colonial   home  with   TV   or  out-of-doors 
hunting  or  fishing,  Jackie,  Viola  and  Johnny  like  to  do  things  together. 


and  playing  sax  and  banjo  with  such 
bands  as  Paul  Whiteman  and  Glen 
Gray,  has  given  Johnny  a  stability 
which  he  feels  has  had  a  great  bear- 
ing on  his  outlook  on  life.  But  it 
was  crib  and  carriage,  babies  and 
baggage  for  a  total  of  sixty  moves 
before  the  family  settled  in  Detroit. 
As  "Detroit's  Irish  Tenor"  for  Sta- 
tion WWJ,  Johnny  accumulated  a 
total  of  more  air  time  than  any  other 
Detroit  performer  and  is  especially 
proud  of  the  Cinderella  Weekend 
show  on  which  he  was  emcee  and 
producer.  New  Englanders  at  heart, 
the  Kings  found  the  only  Cape  Cod 
cottage  in  Detroit  to  help  them  feel 
more  at  home. 

Back  in  Wakefield  now,  Johnny 
says,  "We  have  a  pretty  good  system 
worked  out.  I  keep  myself  and  my 
family  healthy  through  exercise  and 
my  wife  takes  care  of  preparing  good 
food  for  us."  Johnny  spends  hours 
exercising  with  bar  bells  together 
with  his  twelve-year-old  son  Jackie, 
and  Viola  joins  them  for  hiking  and 
fishing.  Although  Johnny  thought 
the  family  roving  was  over,  one 
more  move  was  made  when  24-year- 
old  daughter  Jeannette  returned  to 
Detroit  to  be  married. 

Johnny,  who  is  lead  tenor  with 
the  Abbott  Singers  in  addition  to  his 
radio  shows,  says  wife  Viola  is  his 
"listener-vane."  Through  her,  he 
can  tell  how  well  he  has  done  in  his 
aim  to  please  the  people  at  home. 
According  to  Rhode  Island  fans,  all 
signs  point  to  fair  weather  and 
bright  listening  with  Johnny  King. 


WHAT'S  NEW 

(Continued  from  page  7) 

tossed  by  the  Colgate-Palmolive  Company, 
in  celebration  of  their  fifth  year  as  a  spon- 
sor of  this  popular  television  show.  More 
than  fifteen  hundred  New  York  youngsters 
participated  in  the  wingding,  which  was 
held  at  the  Century  Theater.  Bob  Smith, 
the  "Buffalo  Bob"  of  the  show,  is  still  re- 
cuperating from  his  recent  heart  attack,  but 
he  may  be  able  to  return  to  Howdy  in  a 
month  or  so.  Meanwhile,  Ted  Brown,  as 
Bison  Bill,  is  pinch-hitting  for  Bob. 

Jeffrey  Clay — the  singer  with  the  Sammy 
Kaye  outfit  on  their  So  You  Want  To  Lead 
A  Band  show — and  his  wife,  dancer  Gloria 
Sicking,  are  the  proud  parents  of  David 
Sanford,  their  first  baby. 

Mulling  The  Mail: 

Mrs.  C.C.,  Palestine,  Texas:  Haleloke,  of 
the  Arthur  Godfrey  shows,  is  not  married. 
.  .  .  Miss  E.S.,  Watertown,  New  York:  As 
I  recall,  the  character  of  Anne  Malone  was 
written  out  of  the  story  of  Young  Dr.  Ma- 
lone some  time  before  Barbara  Weeks,  who 
played  Anne,  passed  away  in  real  life. . . . 
Mrs.  J.D.,  Baltimore,  Maryland:  The  Fon- 
tane  Sisters  left  the  Perry  Como  show  be- 
cause the  producers  decided  to  use  the  Ray 
Charles  Singers  this  season.  The  girls  have 
been  playing  night-club  engagements  in 
and  around  the  New  York  area,  since  de- 
parting from  the  program.  .  .  .  Mrs.  M.B., 
Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania:  For  a  picture 
of  Dorothy  Collins,  I  suggest  you  write  her 
c/o  Your  Hit  Parade,  NBC,  30  Rockefeller 
Plaza,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  Miss  L.C., 
Xenia,  Illinois:  CBS  has  no  plans  to  re- 
sume   Beulah    on    the    radio    schedule — at 

least  not  this  season Mrs.  A.A.,  Austin, 

Minnesota:  Yes,  Loretta  Young  was  mar- 
ried briefly,  many  years  ago,  to  actor  Grant 
Withers,  but  the  marriage  was  annulled. 
Loretta,  in  private  life,  is  Mrs.  Tom  Lewis. 
...  So  many  letters  about  Christine  and 
Phyllis  McGuire,  so  to  all  of  you  who  wrote 
with  questions  about  their  husbands,  etc.: 
Phyllis' married  name  is  Mrs.  Neil  Van  Ells, 
and  her  husband  is  an  advertising  man  with 
a  TV  station  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  They  have 
no  children.  Christine  is  Mrs.  John  Teeter, 
and  John  is  with  the  Damon  Runyon  Can- 
cer Fund  in  New  York  City.  The  Teeters 
are  the  proud  parents  of  two  children, 
both  boys,  age  seven  and  twelve.  Hope  this 
straightens  everyone  out.  .  .  .  Mrs.  H.E., 
Lebanon,  Pennsylvania:  Blair  Davies  is  the 
new  actor  playing  the  part  of  Reverend 
Richard  Dennis  on  The  Brighter  Day.  As 
far  as  I  know,  he  is  permanently  set  for  the 
role.  ...  Mr.  J.McG.,  St.  Louis,  Missouri: 
Yes,  Phil  Silvers  is  very  definitely  under 
contract  to  CBS.  His  new  television  show, 
which  will  be  filmed  before  a  live  audience, 
is  set  to  go  on  in  a  few  weeks.  Incidentally, 
the  advance  reports  on  this  situation-com- 
edy are  just  great.  ...  To  all  of  you  who 
wrote  asking  about  (Continued  on  page  11) 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of 
your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or 
wonder  what  has  happened  to  someone 
on  radio  or  television,  drop  me  a  line: 
Miss  Jill  Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  New 
York,  and  I'll  try  my  best  to  find  out  for 
you  and  put  the  informatio7i  in  the 
column.  Unfortunately,  we  don't  have 
space  to  answer  all  questions,  so  I  try 
to  cover  those  personalities  and  shows 
about  whom  we  receive  the  most  in- 
quiries.   Sorry,    no    personal    answers. 


XX  hat  good  is  a  pretty  hat. . . 


if  you  dorit  have  pretty  hair  \ 


9 


Everyone  knows  lanolin  brings  to  dull,  drab  hair 
the  glow  of  youth  .  .  .  and  Helene  Curtis  brings  you 
up  to  10  times  more  absorbable  lanolin! 

Now  it's  as  easy  to  have  gorgeous  hair  as  it  is  to  buy  a  hat. 

For  Helene  Curtis  has  discovered  what  others  have  tried 
and  failed  ...  a  way  to  give  you  100%  absorbable  lanolin. 
It's  lanolin  discovery,  a  hair  conditioner  and  beautifier 
that's  more  effective  (up  to  10  times  more  effective!) 
because  it  contains  up  to  10  times  more  absorbable  lanolin. 

And  there  are  no  "filler"  oils  to  grease  your  hair  or  make 
you  lose  your  wave.  Just  spray.    Brush.  Then  watch. 
A  before-and-after  picture  happens  in 
your  mirror!  |_J_ 

And  we'll  bet  you  get  more  compliments 
on  your  hair  than  you  do  on  your  hats. 


Regular  size  $1.25 


New  large  economy  size  $1.89 

both  prices  plus  tax 


T^iiWu^  lanolin  discovery ;|/f; 

the  breath  of  life  for  Ifeless  looking  Hair! 


•TRADEMARK 


lanolin 
discovery  I 


*W 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


^H 

■^•■j 

|/ 

' 

jM|  -  | 

Hello,  once  more!  It's  about  that  time 
of  the  year — holiday  time,  that  is,  so 
happy  jingle  bells,  and  all  that  sort 
of  thing.  I  suppose  you're  all  busy  as  any- 
thing, buzzing  about  with  your  Christmas 
shopping  list.  And  while  you're  looking 
for  a  certain  "what"  for  a  certain  "whom," 
don't  forget  records.  There  are  lots  of 
interesting  things  on  the  platter  shelf  this 
month,  including  plenty  of  Yuletide  stuff. 

And  we  might  as  well  begin  with  "White 
Christmas."  Firstly,  there's  an  album  by 
Decca  with  all  the  songs  from  the  new 
Bing  Crosby  movie,  sung  by  Bing,  of 
course,  Danny  Kaye  and  Peggy  Lee,  with 
Joseph  Lilley's  orchestra  and  chorus. 
Peggy  sings  the  tunes  that  Rosemary 
Clooney  sang  in  the  picture  because  Rose- 
mary is  under  exclusive  contract  to  Co- 
lumbia Records.  But  if  you're  a  Clooney 
fan,  don't  despair.  She,  too,  has  an  album 
of  "White  Christmas,"  and  she  does  the 
whole  score — including  all  the  Kaye  and 
Crosby  numbers. 

Speaking  of  Crosby,  the  junior  edition, 
Gary,  is  with  us  again  this  month  with  his 
second  solo  effort.  It's  another  good  job 
by  Bing's  boy.  Gary  sings  "There's  a  Small 
Hotel,"  the  ballad  oldie  now  being  revived, 
plus  a  cute  rhythm  tune,  "Ready,  Willing 
and  Able,"  from  the  Frank  Sinatra — Doris 
Day  movie,  "Young  at  Heart."  Buddy 
Bregman  batons  the  orchestra.    (Decca) 

"Noel  and  Gertie"  is  the  name  of  a  most 
interesting  album — -and  certainly  a  collec- 
tor's item — starring  Noel  Coward  and  the 
late  Gertrude  Lawrence,  with  Yvonne 
Printemps,  the  French  chantoosie.  The 
album  includes  scenes  and  musical  inter- 
ludes from  Coward's  most  successful  plays 
and  scores,  all  of  which  were  originally 
recorded    between    1929    and    1938.     There 


are  scenes  from  "Tonight  at  8: 30,"  "Private 
Lives,"  and  "Conversation  Piece,"  and  such 
well-remembered  songs  as  "I'll  See  You 
Again,"  "Zigeuner,"  "Mad  Dogs  and  Eng- 
lishmen," "I'll  Follow  My  Secret  Heart," 
and  the  humorous  "Don't  Put  Your  Daugh- 
ter on  the  Stage,  Mrs.  Worthington." 
(Victor) 

Don't  look  now,  but  here  comes  another 
vocal  group.  This  time  it's  The  Lancers, 
and  they  come  through  all  right  on  "Mr. 
Sandman"  and  "Little  White  Light,"  with 
Van  Alexander's  orchestra.  They've  got 
a  brand-new  contract  with  Coral  Records, 
and  this  is  their  first  release. 

Coral  also  handed  out  a  contract  to 
Steve  Lawrence,  the  young  baritone  on  my 
Tonight  show  on  NBC-TV.  I  think  you'll 
agree  he  does  a  fine  job  on  his  first  record, 
"Tell  Me  What  to  Do"  and  "Willow."  Steve 
gets  musical  support  from  Dick  Jacobs  and 
his  orchestra. 

Speaking  of  my  TV  show,  did  you  catch 
Georgia  Gibbs  when  she  introduced  her 
newest  cutting,  "Mambo  Baby"?  It  really 
moves,  and  is  a  good  contrast  to  the  flip- 
over  side,  a  pretty  ballad,  "Love  Me." 
Glenn  Osser  did  the  arrangements  and 
conducts  the  band.    (Mercury) 

Frank  Sinatra  is  just  about  Capitol's 
number  one  record  salesman  these  days, 
and  no  wonder.  His  latest  disc  is  "The 
Christmas  Waltz"  and  "White  Christmas," 
accompanied  by  Nelson  Riddle's  orchestra 
and  chorus. 

A  newcomer  to  the  Capitol  roster,  but 
certainly  no  newcomer  to  recorded  music, 
is  Woody  Herman,  one  of  our  most  tal- 
ented musicians  and  conductors.  Woody 
can  always  be  counted  on  for  a  good  band, 
and  his  present  outfit  shows  off  to  ad- 
vantage  on  its  first  waxings  for   Capitol, 


10 


Those  ever-lovin'  Chordettes — Marjorie  Needham,  Carol  Bushman,  Janet 
Ertel  and  Lynn  Evans — have  good  reason  to  smile.  Their  new  record,  "Mr. 
Sandman,"  is  climbing  up  on  the  hit  list  by  leaps  and  bounds.  (Cadence) 


"Mexican  Hat  Trick"  and  "Sleepy  Sere- 
nade," both  instrumentals. 

Talking  of  hits,  Kitty  Kallen  has  been 
etching  one  after  another  this  past  year. 
Now  she  has  recorded  a  Yuletide  song, 
"The  Spirit  of  Christmas,"  which  has  been 
named  the  official  theme  of  the  1954  Christ- 
mas Seal  Drive,  and  a  cute  ditty  called 
"Baby  Brother."  Jack  Pleis'  orchestra  on 
both.    (Decca) 

Ann  Sothern  has  recorded  a  musical  al- 
bum of  "Lady  in  the  Dark,"  the  famous 
play  she  did  on  television.  Carlton  Car- 
penter provides  comic  support,  and  Henri 
Rene  and  his  orchestra  back  them  up. 
The  arrangements,  by  the  way,  are  the 
ones  they  used  on  the  TV  show.   (Victor) 

Oops!  Another  vocal  group,  a  trio  this 
time,  and  a  good  one.  Three  fellas  who 
call  themselves  The  Chuckles,  and  their 
first  platter — on  the  "X"  label — could  do 
it  for  them.  They  sing  a  fine  ballad  called 
"The  Runaround,"  in  a  smooth  style;  the 
flip  side  is  "At  Last  You  Understand." 

Cadence  Records  is  all  excited  about  a 
new  singing  gal  they've  discovered  named 
Mary  Del.  Archie  Bleyer  heard  her  voice 
on  a  demonstration  disc,  signed  her  and 
conducted  her  first  date.  She  does  a 
rhythm  and  blues  number,  "It  Hurts  Me 
to  My  Heart,"  belting  out  the  lyrics  about 
a  lady  brushing  off  a  guy,  and  on  the  re- 
verse she  chirps  a  silly  novelty,  "Yum 
Yum  Yum,  I'll  Take  You." 

For  the  junior  set  we  have  some  kiddie 
records  by  kiddies,  and  just  in  time  for 
St.  Nick.  Little  Rita  Faye,  the  nine-year- 
old  lass  who  is  well  known  in  the  South 
and  Southwest  for  her  hillbilly  lilting, 
sings  "I  Want  Santa  Claus  for  Christmas" 
and  "There  Really  Is  a  Santa  Claus." 
(M-G-M)  And  eleven-year-old  Leslie 
Uggams  does  "Uncle  Santa,"  and  "The 
Fat,  Fat  Man  with  the  White,  White  Beard." 
(M-G-M) 

The  Fontane  Sisters,  Perry  Como's  for- 
mer vocal  gals,  are  now  out  on  their  own, 
and  also  making  records  for  a  new  com- 
pany— Dot.  With  Billy  Vaughn's  orchestra, 
they  harmonize  on  "A  Love  Like  You,"  and 
the  oldie,  "Willow  Weep  for  Me." 

RCA  Victor  has  gathered  together  some 
of  their  top  personalities  on  one  album, 
with  all  of  them  sending  out  Yuletide 
greetings  in  their  own  musical  style.  There 
are  eight  sides  in  all,  which  include:  Dinah 
Shore  singing  "Happy  Christmas,  Little 
Friend";  Hugo  Winterhalter's  orchestra 
playing  "Blue  Christmas";  Eddie  Fisher 
with  "Oh,  Come  All  Ye  Faithful";  Eartha 
Kitt  and  her  "Santa  Baby";  Henry  Rene's 
orchestra  performing  "The  Christmas 
Song";  Tony  Martin  singing  "Silent  Night"; 
and  Perry  Como's  "White  Christmas."  Oh, 
yes,  the  title — "Merry  Christmas  with  The 
RCA  Family." 

And  Merry  Christmas  from  me,  too,  and 
I  hope  the  old  boy  brings  you  everything 
you  want,  especially  a  nice,  happy  1955! 
Be  seeing  you  next  year. 


WHAT'S  NEW 

(Continued    from    page    9) 

singing  favorite  Julius  La  Rosa:  It  is 
true  that  CBS  did  not  renew  its  contract 
with  him  recently,  but  Julius  has  been 
doing  well  in  night  clubs  and  theaters  and 
with  recordings.  His  income  for  the  first 
year  after  he  and  Arthur  Godfrey  parted 
company  was  somewhere  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  $300,000.  So  there's  no  need  to  feel 
sorry  for  Julie. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  .  .  . 

Lucy  Monroe,  the  soprano,  who  is  known 
as  the  "Star  Spangled  Banner"  lady?  Lucy 
hasn't  been  on  the  air  recently  because  she 
was  ill  and  underwent  surgery  in  New 
York  City.  Following  her  discharge  from 
the  hospital  and  a  recuperation  period,  she 
returned  to  the  USO  Camp  Show  circuit. 
She  is  hoping  to  make  a  trip  to  Korea 
around  Christmas  time  to  sing  for  the 
Armed  Forces. 

June  Hutton,  the  blonde  songstress  who 
appeared  on  Eddie  Fisher's  show,  among 
others,  on  television?  June  was  absent  from 
the  scene  for  a  while  because  of  the  im- 
pending arrival  of  the  stork.  She  and  her 
husband,  conductor  Axel  Stordahl,  have 
just  welcomed  the  first  addition  to  their 
family — a  six-pound  girl  named  Susan. 
June  hopes  to  resume  singing  shortly. 

The  Stroud  Twins,  Claude  and  Clarence, 
who  were  a  popular  comedy  team  in  radio 
several  seasons  back?  Claude  now  owns  a 
restaurant  in  Westchester,  California,  called 
The  Golden  Drumstick  and  recently  re- 
turned to  show  business  part-time  on  Paul 
Gilbert's  TV  show,  The  Duke.  He  plans  to 
work  from  time  to  time  in  Hollywood  tele- 
vision, but  will  not  make  it  a  full-time 
career.  Brother  Clarence  lives  in  Sioux 
Falls,  South  Dakota,  and  is  in  the  automo- 
bile business  there.  He  occasionally  appears 
in  little-theater  plays  there. 

The  Andrews  Sisters,  who  at  one  time 
were  the  country's  number  one  vocal  trio? 
Since  the  girls  battled  and  broke  up  their 
act,  Patty  has  gone  out  on  her  own,  while 
La  Verne  and  Maxene  have  been  looking  for 
a  new  singer  to  take  Patty's  place  and  to 
form  another  trio.  So  far  it  hasn't  worked 
out.  Patty,  however,  has  been  doing  fabu- 
lously with  her  night-club  and  hotel  sup- 
per-room bookings,  working  with  her  hus- 
band-accompanist Walter  Weschler,  and 
there's  a  good  chance  she  may  appear  regu- 
larly on  one  of  the  top  variety  TV  shows 
after  the  first  of  the  year. 


NBC's  Emanuel  Sacks  and  Sylvester 
Weaver  help  Eddie  Fisher  mark  his 
fifth     anniversary     with      RCA     Victor. 


It's  Elastic 

and  Nylon! 


CA.U4  -CAMAAidu 


"Custo 


>m 


contoured"  to  flatter,  feel  and 
fit  as  if  fashioned  for  you  alone/ 


See  it— you'll  want  it/  Wear  it— you'll  love  it/  The  Playtex  Living  Bra 
uses  elastic  and  nylon  in  a  new  way,  to  g-i-v-e  with  your  every  motion  .  .  . 
to  1-i-v-e  as  you  live.  Exclusive  criss-cross  design  lifts  your  loveliness, 
contours  your  curves,  rounds  and  raises  as  no  bra  ever  before.  For  the 
first  time  in  bra  history,  you  can  enjoy  upmost  uplift  in  utmost  comfort. 
You'll  see  the  beautiful  difference  .  .  .  feel  the  comfortable  difference/ 


^»«iBn, 


Look  for  Playtex J^^"  Bra 

in  the  heavenly  blue  package  at  department 
stores  and  specialty  shops  everywhere. 
In  gleaming  WHITE,  wonderfully  washable— 
without  ironing/  Sizes  32A— 40C— S3.95 

♦U.S.A.  and  Foreign  Patents  Pending 


©1954  International  Latex  Corporation  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Dover  Del 
In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd.  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont. 


11 


John  Henry  Faulk's  warmth, 

understanding  and  homespun  humor 

add  a  delightful  freshness  and 

sparkle  to  an  everyday  world 

By  ELLEN  TAUSSIG 


MIGHTY  LIKE  A  TEXAN 


You  can  take  a  man  out  of  Texas  but  you  can't  take 
Texas  out  of  a  man."  Those  who  know  John  Henry 
Faulk — in  person  or  from  his  daily  John  Henry  Faulk 
Show,  on  Station  WCBS  from  5:05  to  5:55  P.M.— feel  that 
statement  was  meant  especially  for  him.  For  John  has 
always  been  strictly  Texas — and  we  mean  that  in  the 
nicest  way.  .  .  .  Raised  on  a  farm  in  Travis  County  ("I 
never  wore  shoes  until  I  was  16"),  John  received  his 
B.A.,  M.A.  and  Ph.D.  degrees  at  the  University  of  Texas 
where — after  having  studied  folklore  at  the  Library  of 
Congress — he  taught  English.  Because  his  lectures  were 
spiced  with  colloquialisms,  and  anecdotes,  John's  course 
became  the  most  popular  on  campus.  .  .  .  Until  World 
War  II,  John  remained  Professor  Faulk,  then  he  served 
with  the  Merchant  Marine,  next  the  Red  Cross,  and 
finally  the  Army  Medical  Corps.  After  the  war,  he 
decided  to  test  his  wings  in  New  York  and  radio.  This  in 
itself  was  extraordinary,  because  none  of  John's  family 
had  ever  set  foot  outside  of  Texas  ("They  never  had 
enough  money  to  leave").  As  luck  had  it,  John  was 
given  his  own  network  show  on  CBS.  But,  having  had 
no  previous  experience,  he  soon  realized  he  wasn't  ready 
for  big-time  radio — especially  after  it  was  learned  that 
"my  audience  consisted  only  of  Mama,  the  president  and 
vice-president  of  CBS."  That  meant  starting  from  the 
bottom  and  working  up,  so  John  joined  a  local  station 


in  New  Jersey  and  became  a  disc  jockey.  It  wasn't  easy 
and,  says  John,  he  never  would  have  stuck  to  it  if  it 
hadn't  been  for  his  wife  Lynn.  Six  years  ago,  after  a 
six-week  whirlwind  courtship,  John  and  Lynn  were 
married  and  she  began  convincing  him  that  he  could 
be  a  success  in  radio  because  he  had  something  unusual 
to  give.  Time  has  proved  Lynn  to  be  a  prudent  prophet. 
.  .  .  On  the  home  front,  John  has  been  equally  successful. 
He  and  Lynn  respect  each  other's  interests  and  wishes 
and  derive  their  greatest  pleasure  from  their  children: 
Johanna,  5,  Evelyn,  3V2,  and  19-month-old  Frank  Dobie. 
Although  Lynn  is  quick  to  praise  John's  unusual  com- 
bination of  creative  artistry  and  easygoing  earthiness,  he 
has  his  playing-hard-to-get  moments — as  for  example 
with  cutting  the  grass,  which  John  shrugs  off,  saying: 
"When  it  gets  so  high  we  can't  find  the  kids,  then  I  cut 
it."  .  .  .Of  course,  John  has  had  to  take  much  ribbing 
about  being  a  Texan,  but  he  kids  right  along  with  it. 
There  are  even  those  who  doubt  he's  "a  real  Texan." 
But  not  his  "friends  and  listeners.  They  know — and  have 
told  him — the  kind  of  man  he  is:  sincere,  thoughtful, 
understanding,  common-sensical  and  pleasantly  humorous. 
These  are  the  ingredients  of  which  a  wise,  humble  and 
respected  man  is  made — a  man  who  has  accepted  and 
understood  the  challenge  of  life  and  who  knows  where 
to  find,  and  how  to  travel,  the  path  to  greater  success. 


John  has  proved  to  be  a  handy  man  to  have  around — especially  when  there's  a  luscious  steak  to  be  barbecued,  or 
time  to  feed  Evelyn,  Johanna  and  Frank  Dobie.  And,  if  the  girls  promise  to  be  very  still,  he  takes  them  bird-watching. 


There's  no  prouder  dad  or  husband — John's  listeners  hear  often  about  Johanna,  Evelyn,  Frank  Dobie  and  Lynn. 


According  to  Mrs.  Faulk,  John  has  a  new  hobby  every  year.   Currently,  he's  taking  a  correspondence  sketching 
course  from  Art  Instruction,  Inc.  As  for  chess,  "It's  my  greatest  and  most  serious  weakness,"  says  John  with  a  grin. 


13 


PERIODIC  PA"" 

r  ■«  tod  M««  *"" 

»  "''OS  'a!.ls.  It  «**«*  - 
™o«*UCSTea^oooo 
-  cramps,  eas^ 


14 


i  nf  or  mat  ion 

booth 


Mail  For  Miner 

Dear  Editor: 

Where  can  I  write  to  Jan  Miner,  who 
stars  on  Hilltop  House  and  appears  on 
other  radio  and  TV  shows? 

T.  B.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

You  can  write  to  Jan  Miner  c/o  Wolf 
Radio  &  TV  Productions,  420  Madison 
Ave.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Father  And  Son 

Dear  Editor: 

I  would  like  to  know  about  the  stars  of 
Rocky  King.  Detective — Roscoe  Karns, 
who  plays  Rocky,  and  Tod  Karns,  who 
plays  his  assistant,  Detective  Hart.  Are 
they  related?  L.  P.,  Crete,  Neb. 

The  two  bloodhounds  of  Rocky  King, 
Detective  are  blood  relations — namely, 
father  and  son.  While  other  sleuth  shows 
have  seen  many  replacements,  Roscoe 
Karns  is  the  original  and  only  Rocky 
King.  He's  a  plainclothes  man  now,  but 
Roscoe  got  his  start  in  the  theater  when 
his  military  school  uniform  won  him  an 
usher's  job  over  other  mufti-clad  candi- 
dates. He's  been  in  show  business  ever 
since  and  has  appeared  in  more  than  200 
films,  generally  cast  in  light-comedy  roles. 


"I'd  love  to  do  a  serious  role,"  Roscoe 
sighs,  "but  I'm  definitely  typed  as  the 
light-comic  type."  His  own  favorite  film 
roles  include  "Night  After  Night,"  "It 
Happened  One  Night,"  and  "Twentieth 
Century."  He  appeared  on  Broadway  in 
"School  for  Brides,"  and  on  the  West 
Coast  in  "Front  Page,"  when  he  also  spent 
a  lot  of  time  with  detectives  and  grew 
familiar  with  their  on-  and  off-duty  lives. 
As  Roscoe's  real-life  son,  Tod  Karns 
recognizes  that  the  family  has  "acting  in 
its  blood,"  but  he  once  seriously  consid- 
ered giving  up  show  business  for  an  art 
career.  He  has  received  top  prices  for  his 
paintings,  but  he  eventually  settled  on  act- 
ing and  the  role  of  Detective  Hart  in 
Rocky  King,  the  part  of  Stillwell,  the 
helmsman,  in  the  movie  of  "The  Caine 
Mutiny,"  a  number  of  appearances  in  the 
Andy  Hardy  series  and  a  role  in  Frank 
Capra's  "Flame-Out."  Tod,  who  has  done 
paintings  for  Frank  Sinatra  and  Garry 
Moore,  is  also  a  golfer  of  ability  and  often 
plays  with  Bing  Crosby  and  Groucho 
Marx. 


Her  Father's  Daughter 


Dear  Editor: 

I  would  like  to  know  a  little  about  Eliz- 
abeth Montgomery,  whom  I  have  seen  on 
Robert   Montgomery   Presents   and   Kraft 


liz- 


Tod  and  Roscoe  Karns 


Elizabeth  Montgomery 


Theater.  Where  can  I  write  for  a  picture 
of  her?  C.  A.  J.,  Glens  Falls,  N.  Y. 

Ash-blonde,  green-eyed  and  twenty-one 
years  old,  Elizabeth  Montgomery  displays 
an  acting  talent  which  pleases  even  her 
father  and  severest  critic,  Robert  Mont- 
gomery. Born  in  Los  Angeles,  she  was  a 
junior  in  high  school  when  she  transferred 
to  the  famed  Spence  School  in  New  York. 
After  her  graduation  at  18  from  the  Amer- 
ican Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts,  Eliza- 
beth debuted  on  NBC-TV — cast,  appro- 
priately enough,  as  her  father's  daughter 
in  a  drama  on  Robert  Montgomery  Pre- 
sents. .  .  .  Elizabeth  uses  make-up  spar- 
ingly, likes  to  deck  her  5'4%"  frame  in 
blue  or  green  suits  for  day  wear  and  go 
all  out  for  feminine  evening  clothes.  No 
duffer  with  the  hockey  stick,  she  has  also 
won  a  number  of  ribbons  for  her  expert 
horsemanship,  but  Elizabeth  bows  to  her 
father  on  the  tennis  court.  You  can  write 
to  her  for  a  picture  c/o  NBC-TV,  30  Rock- 
efeller Plaza,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Great  Life 

Dear  Editor: 

I  would  like  to  have  some  information 
on  William  Bishop,  who  is  co-starred  on 
It's  A  Great  Life.        P.E.,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Born  in  Oak  Park,  Illinois,  July  16, 
1921,  tall,  good-looking  William  Bishop 
attended  grammar  and  high  school  in  New 
York  and  New  Jersey,  then  enrolled  at 
West  Virginia  University  to  study  law. 
But  one  summer  his  uncle — the  famed 
playwright  Charles  MacArthur — put  him 
to  work  at  the  Suffern  County  (N.Y.) 
Theater  and  William's  vacation  job  grew 
into  a  lifetime  career.  He  left  college  to 
tour  in  "Tobacco  Road,"  play  opposite 
Helen  Hayes  in  "Victoria  Regina,"  and 
then  do  a  brief  stint  with  Orson  Welles' 
Mercury  Theater.  Next  he  went  to  Holly- 
wood to  do  a  movie  on  the  South  Pacific 
and  wound  up,  instead,  serving  with  the 
Signal  Battalion  in  that  very  area.  After 
his  discharge  in  1946,  he  was  seen  in  such 
films  as  "Anna  Lucasta,"  "Walking  Hills," 
"Harriet  Craig"  and  "Wyoming  Outlaws." 
His  many  TV  credits  include  The  Loretta 
Young  Show  and  Schlitz  Playhouse. 


William  Bishop 


Brooklyn  Cowboy 

Dear  Editor: 

Can  you  please  tell  me  something  about 
Warren  Berlinger,  who  plays  Jerry  Ames 
on  The  Secret  Storm?  Where  can  I  write 
to  him?  E.G.,  Whittier,  Calif. 

Warren  Berlinger  was  just  an  eight- 
year-old  playing  cowboy  on  the  streets 
of  Brooklyn  when  a  neighbor,  Mrs.  Tracy, 
interrupted  him  to  ask  whether  he'd  like 
to  be  in  the  movies.  Warren  thought  this 
was  an  invitation  to  go  to  the  movies  and 
led  the  neighbor  to  his  mother  to  ask  per- 
mission. Mrs.  Berlinger  listened  as  Mrs. 
Tracy  explained  about  the  nation-wide 
auditions  for  the  role  of  Harlan  in  the 
cinema  version  of  "Life  with  Father,"  and 
finally  consented  to  let  Warren  audition. 
Warren  didn't  get  the  role  but  Mrs.  Ber- 
linger took  him  to  Joshua  Logan's  office, 
where  he  was  hired  to  play  Ethel  Mer- 
man's young  brother  in  "Annie  Get  Your 
Gun."  Warren  played  Little  Jake  in  the 
hit  for  three  years.  He  also  appeared  on 
Broadway  in  "Bernardine,"  "Take  a  Giant 
Step"  and  "Anniversary  Waltz,"  and  has 
been  seen  on  many  of  the  top  TV  shows, 
including  You  Are  There,  but  The  Secret 
Storm  (see  page  26)  is  his  first  serial. 

Now  seventeen,  Warren  keeps  up  his 
standing  as  a  high  school  junior  by  cor- 
respondence courses  from  the  Professional 
Children's  School.  He  likes  softball,  base- 
ball, horseback  riding,  hockey  and  tennis 
and  is  very  proud  of  his  stamp  collection. 
His  ambition  is  to  be  a  stage  producer 
and  director — and  to  do  a  little  writing 
on  the  side.  You  can  write  to  him  c/o  The 
Secret  Storm,  CBS-TV,  485  Madison  Ave., 
New  York,   N.   Y. 


FOR    YOUR    INFORMATION— If 

there's  something  you  ivant  to  know  about 
radio  and  television,  write  to  Information 
Booth,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd 
St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if 
we  can,  provided  your  question  is  of  gen- 
eral interest.  Answers  will  appear  in  this 
column — but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to 
your  letter,  and  specify  whether  your  ques- 
tion concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Smoothest  eye-crayon 
in  the  whole  world 
— and  the  easiest 
to  use— it's  a  joy! 
Never  needs  sharp- 
ening. Crayon  pro- 
pels and  retracts! 
Always  ready  to 
make  your  eyes 
far  lovelier— in  a 
minute's  time! 


It's  the  only 
eye-crayon 
that's  spring- 
locked —  can't 
fall  out! 


AjWfe 


"AUTOMATIC" 
EYEBROW  AND  EYE  UNER 
PENCIL      7Q, 

<  ■;      Velvet  Black,  Dark  Brown,    ITy 

f »      Light  Brown  or  Auburn  ...    ■  ^^ 
1$.    Elegant  turquoise  and  gold  case! 

""IT  TWIN  "REFILLS,  39* 


15 


Above:  Connie  Russell  and  Paul  Douglas  when  they  debuted  for  Alice. 
Below,  her  all  star  family:  Robert  Q.  Lewis,  Alice,  Diane  Sinclair,  Connie, 
Ed  Herlihy,  Sammy  Tagg,  Carol  Ann   Fuller,  and   Rosalinda  Cerniglia. 


For  scores  of  youngsters,  Alice  Clem- 
ents'  program   is  a   dream   come  true. 

The 

Children's 

Hour 


It's  Silver  Jubilee  year  for  The  Children's  Hour  and 
nephews  and  nieces  by  the  tens  of  thousands  would 
like  to  send  their  very  best  wishes  to  a  soft-spoken, 
warm-hearted  woman  they  call  "Auntie  Alice."  In 
rare  formal  moments,  she's  known  as  Mrs.  Alice  Viola 
Clements,  and  she's  the  originator,  producer,  writer 
and  director  of  the  sparkling  hour — emceed  by  Ed 
Herlihy— that  WRCA  and  WRCA-TV  devote  to  tal- 
ented youngsters  every  Sunday  at  10: 30  A.M. 

Though  the  children's  domain  is  one  into  which 
most  directors  fear  to  tread,  Alice  has  showered  her 
affections  on  young  prodigies  and  encouraged  their 
"natural  hamminess"  for  twenty-five  years.  The 
youngest  aspirant  ever  to  present  himself  was  an  18- 
month-old  baby  who  rendered  "The  Sidewalks  of  New 
York."  But  the  star-studded  alumni  who  made  their 
first  child-like  curtsies  under  Alice's  wing  read  like 
an  honor  roll  of  show  business:  Ann  Sheridan,  Ezra 
Stone,  Carol  Bruce,  Al  Bernie,  Roberta  Peters,  Robert 
Q.  Lewis,  Red  Benson,  Joan  Roberts  and  many  others. 
"Personality  is  something  they  have  even  when 
they're  two  or  three  years  old,"  Alice  says.    "And  if 


they've  got  that,  they  don't  need  anything  else."  Every- 
one who  meets  Alice  agrees  that  she  herself  has  this 
"spark  of  personality,"  but  Alice — born  in  Schuylkill 
Haven,  Pennsylvania — recalls:  "I  wasn't  considered 
smart  or  talented  when  I  was  a  child.  I  couldn't  sing 
or  recite."  Still,  after  several  years  at  a  ballet  school, 
Alice  came  to  New  York  in  1925  and  appeared  in  sev- 
eral musicals,  including  "The  Music  Box  Revue." 

That  same  year,  Alice  left  the  stage  to  marry  I.  W. 
Clements  and  move  to  the  Drexel  Hill  suburbs  of 
Philadelphia.  Alice  did  most  of  her  shopping  in  local 
stores,  and  one  day  she  noticed  a  nursery  where 
mothers  left  their  offspring  while  they  did  the  market- 
ing. The  storekeepers  had  provided  the  children  with 
toy  microphones  and  Alice  caught  the  tiny  Thespians 
attacking  their  make-believe  roles  with  a  glee  and 
relish  that  delighted  her.  Why  couldn't  they  do  the 
same  thing  in  front  of  real  mikes,  Alice  asked.  Her 
answer  became  The  Children's  Hour.  Today  it's  the 
oldest  sponsored  program  of  its  kind  on  the  air,  and 
its  success  is  due  to  Alice  Viola  Clements,  the  young- 
at-heart  Pied  Piper  from  Philadelphia. 


16 


HERE 
THEY 
ARE! 


The  lucky  winners  of  Beat  The 
Clock's  exciting  big  contest  for  the 
month  of  October  are  .  .  . 


1st  Prize, 

Sylvania  Chairside 
Theater: 

Mrs.  Miladi  A.  Loeffler 
Box  914,  Route  2 
Largo,  Florida 


Four  runners-up,  Sylvania  radio  clock: 

Mrs.  Barclay  Hamilton 
229  James  Drive 
Havertown,  Pennsylvania 

Mrs.  Helen  M.  Saint 
1719  South  Rendon  Street 
New  Orleans,  Louisiana 

Mrs.  Mary  Cashman 

RFD  I 

Amherst,  Massachusetts 

Louise  C.  Butz 
145  Burd  Street 
Nyack,  New  York 

Next  month:  Five  more  winners  will 
be  announced  from  Beat  The  Clock's 
November  contest.  Keep  an  eye  on 
these  pages — you  may  find  your  name 
printed  here  as  a  winner! 


Beat  The  Clock,  emceed  by  Bud  Collyer,  is 
seen  on  CBS  TV,  Sat.,  7:30  P.M.  EST,  as 
sponsored  by  Sylvania  Electric  Products  Inc. 


Winners  were  chosen  on  the  basis  of 
accuracy  in  rearranging  pictures  of 
three  radio-TV  stars  and  originality 
of  last  lines  for  a  limerick.  Stars  in 
October's  picture  puzzle  were:  Art 
Linkletter,    Bill    Cullen,    Herb    Shriner. 


\0  {jjCnxdeh,  Ao  /ho£Wj  IjJO*&^  0J&  ciiCWuC}^  ~k>  C^WoOtf 


THERE'S 


C 


D 


CREAM 


NOW      I 


MAY 


f 


Lovely  Camay  Bride,  Mis.  Charles  T.  Jackson,  Jr., 
s;iys,  ''I  changed  10  Camay  with  cold  cream 
die  miniile  I  heard  abonl  il. 

Now,  after  using  ii  for  months  and  months, 
I  can  say  it's  the  most  wonderful  beauty  soap 

I've  ever  used  !" 


NOW       MORE       THAN       EVER 


WOMEN  EVERYWHERE  love  Camay  with  cold  cream- 
extra  luxury  at  no  extra  cost!  And  Camay  is  the  only 
leading  beauty  soap  that  contains  this  precious  ingredient. 

TRY  IT  YOURSELF!  Whether  your  skin  is  dry  or  oily, 
Camay  with  cold  cream  will  leave  it  feeling 

exquisitely  cleansed  and  refreshed.  In  your  daily 
Beauty  Bath,  too,  you'll  enjoy  Camay's  famous 
skin-pampering  mildness,  satin-soft  lather,  and  delicate 
fragrance.  There's  no  finer  beauty  soap  made! 


.    .    .    THE      SOAR      OF        BEAUTIFUL       WOMEN 


MI 


^ 


«  %  ■ 


} 


"Christmas  is  for  kids,"  says  Arthur,  lending  a  hand  at  a  party  sponsored  by  Westchester  Parkway  Police. 

Reason's!  Greeting* 
from  feablxty 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 


Christmas  Eve  comes  to  Manhattan  with  church 
bells,  maybe  a  handful  of  snow,  and  a  sud- 
den, climactic  silence.  The  weeks  preceding 
Christmas  are  murder.  Manhattan,  normally  over- 
loaded and  high-pressured,  goes  screamingly  fran- 
tic. There  isn't  enough  time  or  space  for  everyone 
to  shop  and  talk  and  breathe.  In  elevators  and 
subways  and  busses,  the  good  people  suffer  the 
wedged  existence  of  bottled  olives. 


It  was  in  this  hectic  holiday  season,  one  morning, 
that  Arthur  Godfrey  caught  a  cab  to  the  studio. 
He  was  a  little  late,  but  it  was  only  a  short,  sixty- 
cent  ride.  He  got  out  of  the  cab  hastily,  with  a 
dollar  bill  flapping  from  one  hand.  Usually,  the 
bill  would  have  been  snatched  up  before  he  got 
his  shoulders  through  the  door  but,  this  time,  there 
was  Arthur  on  the  sidewalk,  trying  to  hurry,  and 
still  holding  out  his  fare. 


See  Next  Page- 


19 


Reason's  Greetings! 
from  #obfrep 

(Continued) 

To  Arthur,  Christmas  is  "the  most 
beautiful  day  of  all"  in  spirit  and  truth 


The  very  littlest  ones  are  the  stars  at  "Little  Godfrey" 
Yuletide  parties — with  Arthur  himself  dressed  up  as  Santa! 


Arthur  loves  sharing  with  children  of  his  fellow  troupers 


"The  ride's  on  me,"  the  driver  said.  "A  Christmas 
present." 

"No,  no,"  Arthur  said.  "Thanks,  but  I  can't  ac- 
cept it." 

"It's  my  Christmas  present  to  you,"  the  driver  re- 
peated. 

Arthur  Godfrey  has  developed  an  eye  for  judging 
strangers.  He  has  had  to.  He  has  had  nuts  shove 
exploding  pencils  at  him,  and  he  has  had  professional 
beggars  make  flying  tackles  at  his  knees.  Arthur 
looked  carefully,  then  realized  that  the  cab  driver 
was  no  phony,  and  he  was  touched  by  the  driver's 
good  will.  He  didn't  figure  the  driver  could  afford  to 
give  rides  away,  so  Arthur  then  folded  a  five-dollar 
note  into  his  hand.  But,  again,  the  driver  stopped 
him. 

"It's  got  to  be  this  way,  Mr.  Godfrey.  You're  giving 
to  me  all  year  'round,  especially  my  little  girl." 

He  pushed  the  bill  back  at  Arthur,  and  this  time 
Arthur  took  it  and  put  it  in  his  pocket. 

"Boy,  was  I  dumb,"  Arthur  recalls.  "I  was  telling 
this  man  that  he  couldn't  give  me  something.  What 
right  did  I  have  to  tell  him?  Whose  dignity  was  it?" 
Arthur  felt  so  bad  that,  even  though  he  was  late, 
he  stopped  a  little  longer,  apologized  to  the  driver 
and  finally  accepted  the  free  ride.  A  week  later, 
however,  the  driver's  daughter  received  a  beautiful 


the  innocent  joy  he  recalls  from  his  own  boyhood  holidays — and  the  reverent  wonder  he  discovered  one  Christmas  morning  overseas. 


doll  from  Arthur — a  Christmas  present  from  Mr.  G. 

"Christmas  is  for  kids,"  he  says.  "I  remember  when 
I  was  a  kid  how  different  it  was.  We'd  get  colored 
paper  and  cut  it  into  strips  and  make  paper  chains 
to  hang  on  the  tree.  No  one  does  that  any  more. 
They  were  the  happiest  days,  and  not  one  of  us  had 
over  a  dollar  spent  on  him." 

He  lived  in  Hasbrouck  Heights,  New  Jersey,  a 
town  of  around  two  thousand.  He  was  one  of  five 
children  and,  with  his  parents,  attended  the  Dutch 
Reformed  Church.  His  parents  were  well-educated, 
fine,  gentle  people,  but — as  Arthur  points  out — his 
father  was  a  "lousy  businessman."  There  wasn't  much 
money  around  the  house. 

"We'd  go  out  to  some  farm,  or  into  one  of  the 
woods  around  town,  and  find  a  nice  pine  tree.  Then 
we'd  go  to  the  owner  and  ask  him  if  we  could  have  it. 
'Course,  we  always  tried  to  keep  it  hidden  until  after 
the  kids  had  gone  to  bed,   (Continued  on  page    80) 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  A.M.,  seen 
on  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  The 
Arthur  Godfrey  Digest,  CBS  Radio,  Fri.,  8:30  P.M.;  multiple 
sponsorship.  Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8 
P.M.,  for  Pillsbury  Mills,  Frigidaire,  and  The  Toni  Company. 
Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts,  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio.  Mon., 
8:30  P.M.,  for  Lipton  Tea  and  Lipton  Soups.  (All  times  EST.) 


He  believes  in  Santa  Claus  and  tiny  reindeer 

seen  through  eyes  of  youngsters  who  must  never  hope  in  vain. 


21 


Reason's  Greeting* 
from  (gobfrep 

(Continued) 

To  Arthur,  Christmas  is  "the  most 
beautiful  day  of  all,"  in  spirit  and  truth 


The  very  littlest  ones  ore  the  stars  at  "Little  Godfrey" 
Yuletide  parties — with  Arthur  himself  dressed  up  as  Santo! 


Arthur  loves  sharing  with  children  of  his  fellow  troupers 


"The  ride's  on  me,"  the  driver  said.  "A  Christmas 
present." 

"No,  no,"  Arthur  said.  "Thanks,  but  I  cant  ac- 
cept it." 

"It's  my  Christmas  present  to  you,"  the  driver  re- 
peated. 

Arthur  Godfrey  has  developed  an  eye  for  judging 
strangers.  He  has  had  to.  He  has  had  nuts  shove 
exploding  pencils  at  him,  and  he  has  had  professional 
beggars  make  flying  tackles  at  his  knees.  Arthur 
looked  carefully,  then  realized  that  the  cab  driver 
was  no  phony,  and  he  was  touched  by  the  driver's 
good  will.  He  didn't  figure  the  driver  could  afford  to 
give  rides  away,  so  Arthur  then  folded  a  five-dollar 
note  into  his  hand.  But,  again,  the  driver  stopped 
him. 

"It's  got  to  be  this  way,  Mr.  Godfrey.  You're  giving 
to  me  all  year  'round,  especially  my  little  girl." 

He  pushed  the  bill  back  at  Arthur,  and  this  time 
Arthur  took  it  and  put  it  in  his  pocket. 

"Boy,  was  I  dumb,"  Arthur  recalls.  "I  was  telling 
this  man  that  he  couldn't  give  me  something.  What 
right  did  I  have  to  tell  him?  Whose  dignity  was  it?" 

Arthur  felt  so  bad  that,  even  though  he  was  late, 
he  stopped  a  little  longer,  apologized  to  the  driver 
and  finally  accepted  the  free  ride.  A  week  later, 
however,  the  driver's  daughter  received  a  beautiful 


the  innocent  joy  he  recalls  from  his  own  boyhood  holidays — and  the  reverent  wonder  he  discovered  one  Christmas  morning  overseas. 


doll  from  Arthur — a  Christmas  present  from  Mr.  G. 

"Christmas  is  for  kids,"  he  says.  "I  remember  when 
I  was  a  kid  how  different  it  was.  We'd  get  colored 
paper  and  cut  it  into  strips  and  make  paper  chains 
to  hang  on  the  tree.  No  one  does  that  any  more. 
They  were  the  happiest  days,  and  not  one  of  us  had 
over  a  dollar  spent  on  him." 

He  lived  in  Hasbrouck  Heights,  New  Jersey,  a 
town  of  around  two  thousand.  He  was  one  of  five 
children  and,  with  his  parents,  attended  the  Dutch 
Reformed  Church.  His  parents  were  well-educated, 
fine,  gentle  people,  but — as  Arthur  points  out— his 
father  was  a  "lousy  businessman."  There  wasn't  much 
money  around  the  house. 

"We'd  go  out  to  some  farm,  or  into  one  of  the 
woods  around  town,  and  find  a  nice  pine  tree.  Then 
we'd  go  to  the  owner  and  ask  him  if  we  could  have  it. 
'Course,  we  always  tried  to  keep  it  hidden  until  after 
the  kids  had  gone  to  bed,  (Continued  on  page    80) 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  A.M.,  seen 
on  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  The 
Arthur  Godfrey  Digest,  CBS  Radio,  Fri.,  8:30  P.M.;  multiple 
sponsorship.  Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8 
P.M.,  for  Pillsbury  Mills,  Frigidaire,  and  The  Toni  Company. 
Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts,  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Mon., 
8:30  P.M.,  tor  Lipton  Tea  and  Lipton  Soups.  (All  times  EST.) 


He  believes  in  Santa  Claus  and  tiny  reindeer — at  least  as 
seen  through  eyes  of  youngsters  who  must  never  hope  in  vain. 


She  warns  Lettie  to  behave  .  .  .  Guy  speeds  her  to  the  airport.  She's  off  for  Hollywood — and  When  A  Girl  Marries. 


when  st  Star  marries 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


Perhaps  it  is  true,  as  some  say,  that  if  you  think 
about  a  thing  long  enough,  and  hard  enough,  it 
will  happen.  Perhaps  it  is  also  true  that,  when 
it  does  happen,  you  may  not  be  quite  so  sure  it  is 
what  you  really  wanted.  It  may  involve  some  changes 
you  did  not  expect,  some  sacrifices  you  had  not 
counted  on.    Heart's  desire  may  be  tinged  just  a  bit 


with  heartache,  as  the  rosiest  dreams  become  reality. 
This  is  the  sort  of  situation  in  which  Mary  Jane 
Higby,  star  of  ABC's  daytime  drama  When  A  Girl 
Marries,  found  herself  last  fall  when  it  became  neces- 
sary to  change  the  locale  of  the  program  from  New 
York  to  Hollywood.  Hollywood  is  practically  her 
home  town,  and  she  loves  it.  (Continued  on  page  74) 


Mary  Jane  is  Joan  Davis  in  When  A  Girl  Marries,  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  10:45  A.M.  EST,  for  Carnation  Evaporated  Milk  and  FriskiesDog Food. 


22 


Mary  Jane  Higby  would 
make  any  sacrifice  to 
keep  on  playing  the 
woman  she  loves — and, 
at  the  same  time, 
keep  the  man  she  loves 


Arriving,  she  greets  the  California  sun  .  .  .  but  her  heart's  in  wintry  New  York,  where  she  and  Guy  will  celebrate! 


23 


4k)-h  STRIKE 


Warren  Hull  knows  the  deep  wellsprings 

of  humanity,  which  nourish  the  spirit  of 

all  who  seek  a  more  rewarding  life 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


24 


Winner  Dudley  G.  Amendola  and  his  family 

are  very  glad  that  Warren's  program  visited  Los  Angeles! 


IT  RICH  in  1955 


Strike  It  Rich  knows  no  geographical  limits:  Left,  Mrs.  Wendell  Willkie  tells  Warren  about  the  needs  of  Korean  orphans. 
Center,  Warren  takes  part  in  the  Do  It  Yourself  Show  at  Kansas  City.  Right,  he  arrives  to  present  his  program  in  Hollywood. 


West  Coast  candids:  Warren  guesting  on  Mercedes  Bates'  California  Living,  over  KNXT  .  .  .  visiting  little  Yvonne  Baxter, 
who's  learning  to  walk  again  at  Los  Angeles  Children's  Hospital  .  .  .  and  rehearsing  with  his  host  on  the  Bob  Crosby  Show. 


Warren  Hull,  the  man  whose  understanding  of  people 
and  their  needs  •  has  grown  through  hearing  the 
problems,  hopes,  fears  and  ambitions  which  are 
brought  to  Strike  It  Rich,  was  taking  a  moment  to  relax 
before  leaving  the  studio  in  mid-town  Manhattan.  The 
show  was  over,  the  audience  had  filed  out,  the  staff  was 
picking  up  files,  preparing  to  return  to  their  offices,  and 
everyone  was  in  a  happy  mood  because  all  the  contestants 
had  won  as  handsomely  as  anyone  could  have  hoped. 


Thanks  to  answering  questions  correctly,  a  mother, 
aided  by  her  little  son  and  daughter,  had  the  money  to 
remodel  their  house  and  give  each  child  a  room;  a  trio 
of  singing,  dancing  sisters  had  the  cash  and  new  clothes 
which  would  make  the  winter  easier  for  a  large  family; 
a  young  Pennsylvania  farm  wife,  after  winning  the  money 
to  buy  braces  for  her  injured  husband,  had  been  surprised 
by  a  Heart  Line  call  informing  her  that  people  in  her  own 
community  had  added  to  the  fund.  (Continued  on  page  70) 


Strike  It  Rich,  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  11:30  A.M.— and  Wed.,  9  P.M.— heard  on  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  11  A.M.    All  EST,  for  Colgate-Palmolive  Co. 


25 


On  the  show,  the  Ames  children  (played  by  Jean, 

Jada,  and  Warren  Berlinger)  show  their  warm 

appreciation  for  Jane  Edwards  (Virginia   Dwyer). 


Jean  Mowry  enjoys  being  Susan  in 
The  Secret  Storm  .  .  .  but  she 
fills  her  own  life  with  a  dream 

By  GREGG  MARTIN 


What's  cooking?  That's  a  very  appropriate  query 
where  Jean  Mowry  is  concerned!  Jean  is  five- 
feet-six,  blonde,  blue-eyed  and  pretty.  She  con- 
stantly receives  fine  critical  acclaim  for  both  her  acting 
and  her  cookery,  since  she's  so  domestically  scientific 
that  she  can  turn  out  ten  delicious  cakes  between 
breakfast  and  lunch.  She's  cooking  with  gas  and 
burning  with  honest  ambition,  but  she's  young  and  so 
demure,  so  earnest  and  yet  so  bright.  She  has  sim- 
mered quietly  for  ten  months  in  the  world's  loudest 
city. 

"The  ten  loneliest  months  of  my  life,"  Jean  says, 
"but  what  can  I  do  about  it — except  get  married  .  .  .  and 
after  all.  ..." 

Trouble  is  that  Jean  Mowry — who  came  East  to  play 
Susan  Ames  in  The  Secret  Storm,  over  CBS-TV — has 
always  been  several  years  ahead  of  herself,  by  virtue 


26 


of  skipping  grades  and  possessing  other  tendencies 
toward  female  genius  which  resulted  in  her  getting 
through  college  when  she  should  have  been  getting  out 
of  high  school.  Jean  was  born  in  Madison,  Wisconsin, 
and  never  got  more  than  a  few  miles  away  from  the 
city  until  she  was  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Wisconsin. 

"I  am  a  natural,  guaranteed  product  of  Wisconsin," 
Jean  says.  "I  look  butter-and-eggs.  I  cook  butter- 
and-eggs.  I  can  raise  chickens,  and  I  know  how  to 
milk  a  cow  and  churn  the  milk  into  butter." 

Jean's  "dairy-maid  period"  was  incidental  to  her 
ambition  to  act.  Actually,  she  was  raised  in  a  house  in 
town,  a  pleasant  home  with  just  enough  ground  for  a 
vegetable  garden  and  gladioli  and  roses  and  pansies. 
No  chickens.   No  cows. 

Jean's  mother  had  been  a   (Continued  on  page   79) 


The  Secret  Storm  cast  and  staff  help 
create  a  home-like  life  for  Jean.   Above, 
star  Peter  Hobbs,  director  Gloria 
Monty,  Jean,  actress  Haila  Stoddard  and 
producer  Richard  Dunn.     At  left,  Haila 
tastes  the  cooking  which  is  Jean's  pride 
and  joy.    Below,  Jean  plays  the  piano 
at  Liederkranz  Hall  for  Jada  Rowland  (her 
kid  sister  Amy,  in  the  serial  drama). 


Jean  is  Susan  Ames  in  The  Secret  Storm,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:15 
P.M.  EST,  for  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  and  Boyle-Midway,  Inc. 


27 


Geraldyne  and  I  make  sure  that  I  have  plenty  of  time  these  days  to  spend  with  Johnny,  our  twelve-year-old  (shown  training 
the  family  beagle).  Kenny,  Jr.  is  now  a  college  man,  and  helping  him  with  his  advanced  courses  is  sometimes  a  bit  beyond  me! 


We're  Really  LIVING! 


We've  found  the  things  that  mean 
so  much  more  than  bright  lights 
and  applause  .  .  .  our  own  fireside, 
love,  understanding — and  faith 

By  KENNY  BAKER 

You've  heard  the  saying,  "He's  really  living!"  But 
have  you  ever  asked  yourself  what  really  living 
means? 
Well,  I  did,  one  day  about  six  years  ago.  I  was 
standing  under  a  flashing  red  neon  sign  which  was 
blinking  out  the  message,  "Kenny  Baker — appearing 
nightly!"  I  asked  myself,  then  and  there:  "Kenny,  boy, 
you  call  this  living!" 
My  answer  was:  "Hardly — hardly  living  at  all." 
Sure,  I  was  making  thousands  a  week.   My  name 
was  up  in  letters  two  feet  tall.  (Continued  on  page  77) 


Whatever's  cooking  at  our  house,  you  can  be  sure  the 
whole  family  will  manage  to  get  in  on   it  together. 


28 


, 


I 

,       i; 


,* 


<$\ 


E= 


ml 


The  second  generation  may  not  "follow 'father's  footsteps"  into  a  musical  career,  but  we  all  love  to  sing  hymns  together. 
Left  to  right,  Kenny,  Jr.;  my  wife  Geraldyne;  myself;  Johnny;  and  our  daughter  Susie,  who's  quite  a  young  lady  at  sixteen. 


Johnny  studies  the  accordion  and  Susie  plays  the  piano 
very  well,  but  they  have  their  own  ideas  for  the  future. 


Best  of  all,  in  a  father-and-son  relationship,  is  that  sense 
of  sharing  enjoyable  activities — whether  work  or  play. 


29 


&* 


Xr***»— 


\ 


r 


x 


Wmf* 


A* 


m, 


« 


PI 


THE  YOUNGEST  PIONEER 


Success  in  early  TV  called 
for  faith  and  stamina. 
Dennis  James  had  plenty 
of  both — and  then  Mickey's 
love  to  keep  him  there! 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


IN  this  year  of  the  color  spectacular,  the  extravaganza  and 
assorted  other  super-duper  TV  innovations,  Dennis  James 
put  a  fresh  polish  on  an  old  technique,  added  two  new 
shows  to  his  roster  and  started  his  sixteenth  year  of  regularly 
scheduled  telecasting. 

He's  quite  nonchalant  about  a  record  which  few,  if  any, 
performers  in  this  most  frantic  facet  of  show  business  have 
the  air  hours  to  equal — or  the  stamina  to  survive.  Looking 
healthy,  happy,  handsome  and  prosperous,  Dennis  stretched 
out  in  a  relaxation  chair  before  the  picture  window  (which 
turns  Long  Island  Sound  into  a  backdrop  for  his  living  room) 
and  confided  the  secret  of  both  his  success  and  his  endurance. 

"Nothing  to  it,"  he  said.  "When  I  visit  someone's  home  via 
TV,  I  have  just  as  good  a  time  as  my  viewers.   It's  fun." 

His  pretty  wife,  Mickey,  nodded  in  agreement.  "He's 
adjusted  to  it.  Dennis  thrives  on  a  pace  which  would  put 
anyone  else  flat  on  his  back." 

Her  statement  was  no  mere  figure  of  speech.  A  moment 
earlier  they  had  been  speaking  of  their  neighbor,  Bob  Smith — 
Howdy  Doody's  pal — who  had  suffered  a  heart  attack  and 


Continued 


On  Your  Account  helps  Dennis  celebrate  sixteen  years  in  television!  Mickey's  by  his  side  as  he  cuts  the  cake; 
next,  producer  Bob  Quigley;  then  assistant-producer  Keith  Quigley  (Bob's  wife)  and  the  director,  Charles  Fisher. 


TV  wrestling  mode  a  star  of  Dennis — though  he  started  knowing  less  about  it  than  "Hatpin  Mary"  (congratulating  him,  above). 


THE  YOUNGEST  PIONEER 

(Continued) 
With  all  his  shows,  Dennis  James  just  has  to  keep  in  shape! 


The  Name's  The  Same  panelist  Arnold  Stang  beams 


was  still  hospitalized  in  near-by  New  Rochelle. 
Through  the  years,  they  had  seen  many  of  their 
friends  fall  victim  to  television's  pace. 

"It  can  get  you,"  Dennis  acknowledged,  "but  I've 
been  lucky — maybe  because,  in  the  beginning,  I 
didn't  know  enough  to  have  any  other  idea  and  I 
started  out  believing  that  people  want  to  find  out 
about  other  people.  So,  ever  since,  I've  been  telling 
them  what  I've  found  out." 

The  "ever  since"  dates  back  to  1938,  when,  at  Du 
Mont's  experimental  station  on  the  roof  of  515 
Madison  Avenue,  in  New  York,  he  put  The  Dennis 
James  Sports  Parade  on  the  air.  "The  whole  place 
wasn't  as  big  as  your  living  room,"  said  Dennis 
"Cameras,  controls  and  transmitter  were  jammed  in 
together.    Often  I  had  to  help  Dr.  Allan  Du  Mont 


M 


if- 

rrr 

Early  James  shows  included  Okay,  Mother  and  Cash  And  Carry — one  of  the  first  daytimers  on  the  "new"  coaxial  cable. 


at  guest  star  Fernando  Lamas — and  host  Dennis.        Chance  Of  A  Lifetime  presents  Jimmy  McPartland  and  his  Firehouse  Five. 


move  packing  cases  around  to  clear  enough  space  to 
put  on  a  show.  And  then  there  were  the  lights.  .  .  ." 
The  lights  of  those  days  were  something  no  televi- 
sion pioneer  ever  forgets.  Banked  solidly,  they  blazed 
down,  turning  a  shirt  collar  into  a  pulpy  rag  in  a 
matter  of  minutes,  burning  into  the  eyes  and  mind 
of  anyone  who  had  the  temerity  to  face  the  bulky  but 
feeble  iconoscope  cameras.  "You  never  really  got 
used  to  the  lights,"  Dennis  recalled.    "You  had  to 

On  Your  Account,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by 
Procter  &  Gamble  for  Tide.  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime,  Du  Mont 
TV,  Fri.,  10  P.M.,  sponsored  alternately  by  Old  Gold  Cigarettes, 
Lentheric  Perfumes.  The  Name's  The  Same,  ABC- TV,  Mon., 
7:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Ralston  Purina  Co.  Two  For  The 
Money,  over  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Sat.,  9  P.M.,  as  spon- 
sored  by   P.   Lorillard   for   Old   Gold   Cigarettes.    (All   EST) 


fight  back  constantly  to  keep  them  from  melting  the 
thoughts  right  out  of  your  head." 

To  meet  that  incandescent  ordeal,  Dennis  had  the 
advantage  of  a  trained  athlete's  stamina.  Born  Demi 
James  Sposa,  he  had  acquired  one  of  New  Jersey's 
best  athletic-trophy  collections  by  the  time  he  en- 
rolled at  St.  Peter's  College,  intending  eventually  to 
study  medicine.  Exposure  to  a  microphone  at  a  small 
radio  station  changed  that  aim.  Commuting  to  Man- 
hattan, he  worked  as  a  radio  actor  and  an  announcer. 

While  many  labelled  television  as  "the  coming 
thing,"  Dennis  regarded  it  as  here — even  though  there 
were  few  sets,  few  hours  of  telecasting  by  the  stations 
— and  grew  so  fascinated  by  it  that  he  soon  considered 
his  breadwinner,  radio,  as  a  sideline.  He  worked 
without  pay  or  for  small   (Continued  on  page     82) 


33 


THE  YOUNGEST  PIONEER 

[Continued) 
With  all  his  shows,  Dennis  James  just  has  to  keep  in  shape 


The  Name's  The  Same  panelist  Arnold  Stanq  beam 


was  still  hospitalized  in  near-by  New  Rochelle. 
Through  the  years,  they  had  seen  many  of  their 
friends  fall  victim  to  television's  pace. 

"It  can  get  you,"  Dennis  acknowledged,  "but  I've 
been  lucky — maybe  because,  in  the  beginning,  I 
didn't  know  enough  to  have  any  other  idea  and  I 
started  out  believing  that  people  want  to  find  out 
about  other  people.  So,  ever  since,  I've  been  telling 
them  what  I've  found  out." 

The  "ever  since"  dates  back  to  1938,  when,  at  Du 
Mont's  experimental  station  on  the  roof  of  515 
Madison  Avenue,  in  New  York,  he  put  The  Dennis 
James  Sports  Parade  on  the  air.  "The  whole  place 
wasn't  as  big  as  your  living  room,"  said  Dennis. 
"Cameras,  controls  and  transmitter  were  jammed  in 
together.    Often  I  had  to  help  Dr.  Allan  Du  Mont 


at  guest  star  Fernando  Lamas — and  host  Dennis.        Chance  Of  A  Lifetime  presents  Jimmy  McPartland  and  his  Firehouse  Five. 


move  packing  cases  around  to  clear  enough  space  to 
put  on  a  show.  And  then  there  were  the  lights.  .  .  ." 
The  lights  of  those  days  were  something  no  televi- 
sion pioneer  ever  forgets.  Banked  solidly,  they  blazed 
down,  turning  a  shirt  collar  into  a  pulpy  rag  in  a 
matter  of  minutes,  burning  into  the  eyes  and  mind 
of  anyone  who  had  the  temerity  to  face  the  bulky  but 
feeble  iconoscope  cameras.  "You  never  really  got 
used  to  the  lights,"  Dennis  recalled.    "You  had  to 

On  Your  Account,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by 
Procter  &  Gamble  for  Tide.  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime,  Du  Mont 
TV,  Fri,,  10  P.M.,  sponsored  alternately  by  Old  Gold  Cigarettes, 
Lentheric  Perfumes.  The  Name's  The  Same,  ABC-TV,  Mon., 
7:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Ralston  Purina  Co.  Two  For  The 
Money,  over  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Sat.,  9  P.M.,  as  spon- 
sored  by   P.   Lorillard   for   Old   Gold   Cigarettes.    (All   EST) 


fight  back  constantly  to  keep  them  from  melting  the 
thoughts  right  out  of  your  head." 

To  meet  that  incandescent  ordeal,  Dennis  had  the 
advantage  of  a  trained  athlete's  stamina.  Born  Demi 
James  Sposa,  he  had  acquired  one  of  New  Jersey's 
best  athletic-trophy  collections  by  the  time  he  en- 
rolled at  St.  Peter's  College,  intending  eventually  to 
study  medicine.  Exposure  to  a  microphone  at  a  small 
radio  station  changed  that  aim.  Commuting  to  Man- 
hattan, he  worked  as  a  radio  actor  and  an  announcer. 

While  many  labelled  television  as  "the  coming 
thing,"  Dennis  regarded  it  as  here — even  though  there 
were  few  sets,  few  hours  of  telecasting  by  the  stations 
— and  grew  so  fascinated  by  it  that  he  soon  considered 
his  breadwinner,  radio,  as  a  sideline.  He  worked 
without  pay  or  for  small   (Continued  on  page     82) 


1  have  two  very  small  daughters  of  my  own,  with  no  room  for  jealousy  in  their  hearts 

I 


My  "problems"  on  TV — mothering  Millie  (Elena  Verdugo)  and  our 
famished  friend  Alfred  (Marvin  Kaplan) — seemed  pale  by  comparison, 
when  my  husband  George  and  I  faced  the  task  of  preparing  our 
first-born,   Georgie,   for  the   arrival   of   her   baby   sister,    "Beany"! 


Millie's 

Mama 


By  FLORENCE  HALOP 

You'd  think  that  Millie's  Mama,  who 
knows  everything  on  TV,  would  know 
how  to  prepare  a  four-year-old  for 
the  arrival  of  a  baby  sister.    But,  as  Mrs. 
George  Gruskin  in  real  life,  I  found  it's 
not  so  simple.   When,  around  the  seventh 
month,  the  questions  started  coming  fast  and 
furious  from  Georgie   (Georgianna,  our 
four-year-old   daughter),   I    told   myself: 
"Florence,  you'd  better  start  thinking 
up  some  answers!" 

To  my  way  of  thinking,  the  explanation 
can  be  very  simple.   When  you  hear  the 
first  "Mommy's  getting  fat,"  that's  the  time 
to  introduce  them  to  their  new  baby 
brother  or  sister.    You  can  simply  say, 
"Mommy's  making  a  (Continued  on  page  72) 


Florence  Halop  is  Mama  on  Meet  Millie,  CBS-TV, 
Tues.,  9  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  alternately  by- 
Carter  Products,  Inc.  (for  Arrid)  and  O'Cedar  Corp. 


THERE'S  ONLY  ONE 


Singing  with  Bing  in  "White  Christmas"  was  a  great  experience — as 
always.  Somehow,  it's  not  like  working  with  any  other  singer  I  know. 


By  ROSEMARY  CLOONEY 

Every  once  in  a  while  it  hits  me — right 
between  the  eyes — the  fact  that  I, 
personally,  know  Bing  Crosby.    Like 
the  day  when  we  were  finishing  the 
movie,  "White  Christmas,"  and  looking 
forward  to  the  party  planned  by  Bob 
Alton,  the  dance  director.   As  I  shot  out  of 
my  dressing  room  in  the  afternoon,  I 
almost  collided  with  Bing.   (He  had  the 
dressing  room  next  door  to  mine.    Imagine 
being  paid  for  living  next  door  to  Crosby!) 
.  "You  going  to  Bob's  party  Saturday 
night?"  I  asked  him. 

"Sure.    You're  picking  me  up." 

"Great,"  said  I,  whose  husband  was 
slaving  away  in  New  York.    "Then  we've 
got  a  date." 

"Not  so  fast,"  said  Bing.  "I'm  bringing 
a  damsel." 

"Will  you  stop  (Continued  on  page  84) 


Rosemary  is  heard  on  her  own  Rosemary  Clooney 
Show,   over   CBS   Radio,  Thursday,  9   P.M.   EST. 


Love  those  Crosby  records — and  so  does  my  husband,  Jose  Ferrer  (center),  who  swears  he  married  me  just  because  I  had  the 
distinction  of  knowing  Bing  first!  Below,  right — on  the  Paramount  set  with  Bing  and  that  delightful  director,  Michael  Curtiz. 


mm 

■ 

V/' 

tSJH 


I 


J 

4. 


Like  everybody  else,  I'm  so  crazy  about  Crosby  that  it's 

hard  to  forget  he's  my  idol —  and  just  remember  he's  my  friend 


37 


a  Pretty  Wonderful  Guy 


That's  how  Grant  Sullivan's  wife  describes  him — 
and  here's  how  they  found  their  "golden  windows" 


Grant  and  Mary  take  great  delight  in  decorating  their  New  York  apartment — and  looking  at  house  plans,  California-style. 


By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


Grant  Sullivan's  wife  Mary  puts  in  a  hard  day's 
work  in  the  first  half-hour  of  every  morning.  It 
takes  that  long  to  awaken  Grant.  This  requires 
sheer  physical  strength,  for  Grant  is  a  husky  six-foot- 
two  and  gets  a  rather  muscular  grip  on  the  blankets.  It 
also  requires  a  clever  mind,  for  during  the  night  Grant 
somehow  manages  to  convince  himself  there's  nothing 
worth  getting  up  for. 


"It  takes  two  cups  of  coffee  and — I  hate  to  say  it—- lots 
of  nagging,  nagging,  nagging,"  Mary  tells  you,  in  mock 
dismay.  "And  during  the  first  thirty  minutes  Grant  is 
as  grumpy  as  storm  clouds,  then  suddenly  the  sun  breaks 
through." 

On  NBC-TV's  The  Golden  Windows,  Grant  is  cur- 
rently cast  as  John  Brandon,  a  clean-cut,  good-hearted 
young  man.   And  he  isn't  mis-  (Continued  on  page  59) 


Grant  Sullivan  is  John  Brandon  in  The  Golden  Windows,  on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  3:15  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Cheer. 


38 


Alias  John  Brandon:  Grant's  a  romantic  man, 
both  in  The  Golden  Windows  and  at  home,  where  he 
and  Mary  often  eat  by  candlelight — even  at 
breakfast,  before  going  over  scripts  and  fan  mail. 


39 


Two  and  two 
make  Heaven 


Ted  and  I  and  our  daughters 
believe  in  sharing  the  work, 
the    love — and    the   happiness 


Ted  and  I  wanted  the  farm  so  Sally  and  Sue 
could  grow  up  in  the  country.  They've  enjoyed 
it  as  much  as  we  hoped,  and  are  proud  of  their 
prize  calf.  Ted's  proved  to  be  a  real  "working 
farmer,"  too,  with  true  talent  for  management. 


Going   to   Sunday   School    is    part   of  the    girls'    country 
life.  Slim,  quiet  Sue  is  twelve;  bouncy,  bustling  Sally,  eleven. 


Our   Pennsylvania   farmhouse   has   survived   for  centuries, 
but  I  almost  brought  it  down  with  my  wall-chipping  ideas! 


By  MRS.  TED  STEELE 


When  I  was  still  Doris  Brooks,  working  for  the  New 
York  advertising  agency  representing  a  show  on 
which  there  was  a  handsome  young  musician  and 
arranger  named  Ted  Steele,  I  had  no  idea  that  he  would 
one  day  ask  me  to  become  his  manager  and  business 
agent.  Gr  that,  after  a  while,  I  would  take  on  the  job  for 
life — by  marrying  him. 

I  didn't  realize,  either,  that  some  of  the  ideas  I  had 
about  its  being  a  wife's  job  to  run  the  house  would  be 
completely  upset  by  my  husband's  ideas.  And  I  certainly 
didn't  dream  that  I  would  come  to  respect  his  decisions 


about  the  home  as  completely  as  he  has  come  to  respect 
mine  about  the  two  Ted  Steele  shows — on  Mutual  Radio 
and  WOR-TV— both  of  which  I  produce.  This  is  how  it 
has  turned  out  for  us,  and  neither  would  want  it  any  other 
way.  Ted  and  I  work  together,  plan  together,  and  are 
equally  interested  in  everything  affecting  our  home  and 
our  profession — and  especially  everything  that  affects  our 
two  young  daughters,  Sally  and  Suzy.  We  believe  it  is  a 
wonderful  way  of  life. 

In  the  beginning,  I  must  admit  it  was  difficult  for  me. 
Ted  had  come  from  a  typical  (Continued  on  page   67) 


The  Ted  Steele  Shows  are  heard  on  Mutual  at  1:30  P.M.  EST  and  seen  on  WOR-TV  (New  York)  at  3:00  P.M.  EST;  both  Monday  thru  Friday. 


Ted  wades  into  farming  with  all  the  enthusiasm  he  puts 
into  his  shows,  and  always  has  an  answer  for  everything. 


One  thing  he  can't  answer  back  is  the  alarm  clock  which 
awakens  him  bright  and  early  to  another  busy,  varied  day. 


vmi 


1    V- 


TC 


J 


I    II 


P 


$ 


LORENZO  JONES 


1.  Left:  Phoebe  Larkins  (who  claims  to  be  Lorenzo's  wife) 
and  Sail  Maddox  (who  hopes  to  marry  him)  plot  to  prevent 
Lorenzo  from  recalling  his  marriage  to  the  devoted  Belle. 


2.  In  a  visit  to  Basil  Dunbar's  office,  Belle  finds  new 
reason  to  despair  as  Roger  Caxton  points  out  Lorenzo  as 
the  man  he  knew  to  be  Phoebe's  husband  in  Kansas  City. 


The  remembrance  of  things  past — the  disappointments 
and  failures,  as  well  as  the  happy  times — roots  us  in 
the  present  and  prepares  us  with  a  history  of  hopes 
and  dreams  for  tomorrow.  But,  for  Lorenzo  Jones,  this 
does  not  hold  true  .  .  .  because  amnesia  has  drawn  a 
black  curtain  across  his  mind.  Rootless  and  unable  to 
distinguish  truth  from  falsity,  where  his  own  past  is 
concerned,  Lorenzo  finds  that  each  day  takes  on  an 
unreal,  nightmarish  quality.  Like  a  sleepwalker  with 
his  arms  outstretched  to  find  his  way,  Lorenzo  puzzles 
to  find  the  answer  to  the  question:  "Who  am  I?"  Mean- 
while, a  tangled  mesh  of  claims  and  counter-claims  forms 


around  him,  causing  a  never-ending  emotional  upheaval. 

Yet — as  he  talked  to  Belle  and  listened  to  her  quiet 
voice — it  had  seemed  that  a  light  was  about  to  break 
through  the  somber  curtain.  Some  hint  that  had  been 
teasing  his  brain  was  about  to  reveal  itself.  But  then 
Gail  Maddox  appeared  to  interrupt  Belle  and  Lorenzo 
.  .  .  and  the  glimmer  of  recognition  had  faded.  Lorenzo 
again  found  himself  unable  to  tell  Belle  that  he  had  any 
memory  of  a  time  when  she  had  been  his  wife. 

Bravely,  Belle  has  tried  to  take  courage  in  the  thought 
of  how  near  she  had  come  to  making  Lorenzo  realize 
she  is  truly  his  wife.    But  she  must   constantly   fight 


See   \ext   Page- 


43 


LORENZO  JONES 

(Continued) 


4.  As  she  urges,  Lorenzo  joins  Sail  in  asking  Basil  Dunbar's 


3.  Gail  Maddox — siding  with  Phoebe,  whom  she  thinks  she 
can  persuade  to  free  Lorenzo  to  marry  her — tells  Lo- 
renzo that   Belle   means  only   unhappiness  for  them   all. 


despair  as  she  finds  herself  thwarted  in  her  every  effort 
to  find  proof  of  their  marriage  or  to  recall  those  once- 
happy  days  to  Lorenzo.  She  is  heartsick  when  she  thinks 
of  the  ever- increasing  evidence  Phoebe  Larkins  has 
presented  to  support  her  own  claim  of  having  been  mar- 
ried to  Lorenzo  at  a  time  when  he  called  himself  Jerry 
Lorenz!  The  evidence  which  haunts  Lorenzo  most — and 
which  Belle  has  found  no  way  to  discredit — is  the  five- 
year-old  child,  Gloria,  who  Phoebe  insists  is  the  daugh- 
ter of  her  marriage  to  Lorenzo. 

Phoebe  has  found  an  ally  in  the  young  scientist,  Gail 
Maddox.  Lorenzo  had  met  Gail  after  he  lost  his  memory 


44 


help  in  persuading  Belle  to  return  to  New  York. 


5.  Unsuspected  by  all  except  Belle  herself,  Roger  Caxton  and  Phoebe 
Larkins  have  united  in  a  scheme  to  rob  Dunbar's  Queen  Charlotte 
Mines — in  such  a  way  that  Lorenzo  himseif  will  seem  guilty  of  the  crime. 


and  had  become  engaged  to  her.  As  two  women — whom 
he  cannot  remember — both  claim  to  be  his  wife,  Lorenzo 
is  uncertain  and  unhappy.  Gail  Maddox  is  the  only 
woman  with  whom  he  can  remember  being  in  love. 

Gail  herself  has  preferred  to  believe  that  Phoebe  is 
Lorenzo's  real  wife.  She  is  hopeful  that  one  day  she  can 
convince  Phoebe  to  divorce  Lorenzo,  thereby  making 
him  free  to  marry  her.  With  this  in  mind,  Gail  has 
opposed  Belle,  declaring  that  Belle  has  brought  only 
unhappiness  to  all  of  them.  She  urged  Belle  to  return 
to  New  York  and  even  pleaded  with  Lorenzo  to  send 
Belle  away.  Believing  himself  in  love  with  Gail,  Lorenzo 


had  accompanied  her  on  a  visit  to  Basil  Dunbar — his 
employer  at  the  Queen  Charlotte  Mines — for  the  purpose 
of  asking  help  in  convincing  Belle  to  return  to  New  York. 
As  Belle  struggled  hopelessly  to  convince  Lorenzo 
that  Phoebe  Larkins  was  not  his  wife,  Phoebe  struck 
still  another  blow.  Roger  Caxton  appeared  on  the  scene 
with  a  letter  of  introduction  to  Basil  Dunbar.  Roger 
presented  himself  as  being  interested  in  studying  the 
mines.  Upon  meeting  Phoebe  and  Lorenzo,  Roger 
showed  immediate  recognition  and  claimed  he  had  met 
them  before  in  Kansas  City  when  Lorenzo — as  Jerry 
Lorenz — had  been  married  to  Phoebe. 


See  Next  Page- 


45 


LORENZO  JONES 

(Continued) 


i  As  she  urges,  Lorenzo  joins  Gail  in  asking  Basil  Dunbar's 


3.  Sail  Maddox— siding  with  Phoebe,  whom  she  thinks  she 
can  persuade  to  free  Lorenzo  to  marry  her tells  Lo- 
renzo that  Belle  means  only  unhappiness  for  them  all. 


despair  as  she  finds  herself  thwarted  in  her  every  effort 
to  find  proof  of  their  marriage  or  to  recall  those  once- 
happy  days  to  Lorenzo.  She  is  heartsick  when  she  thinks 
of  the  ever-increasing  evidence  Phoebe  Larkins  has 
presented  to  support  her  own  claim  of  having  been  mar- 
ried to  Lorenzo  at  a  time  when  he  called  himself  Jerry 
Lorenz!  The  evidence  which  haunts  Lorenzo  most— and 
which  Belle  has  found  no  way  to  discredit— is  the  five- 
year-old  child,  Gloria,  who  Phoebe  insists  is  the  daugh- 
ter of  her  marriage  to  Lorenzo. 

Phoebe  has  found  an  ally  in  the  young  scientist,  Gail 
Maddox.  Lorenzo  had  met  Gail  after  he  lost  his  memory 


help  in  persuading  Belle  to  return  to  New  York. 


5.  Unsuspected  by  all  except  Belle  herself,  Roger  Caxton  and  Phoebe 
Larkins  have  united  in  a  scheme  to  rob  Dunbar's  Queen  Charlotte 
Mines — in  such  a  way  that  Lorenzo  himself  will  seem  guilty  of  the  crime. 


and  had  become  engaged  to  her.  As  two  women— whom 
he  cannot  remember — both  claim  to  be  his  wife,  Lorenzo 
is  uncertain  and  unhappy.  Gail  Maddox  is  the  only 
woman  with  whom  he  can  remember  being  in  love. 

Gail  herself  has  preferred  to  believe  that  Phoebe  is 
Lorenzo's  real  wife.  She  is  hopeful  that  one  day  she  can 
convince  Phoebe  to  divorce  Lorenzo,  thereby  making 
him  free  to  marry  her.  With  this  in  mind,  Gail  has 
opposed  Belle,  declaring  that  Belle  has  brought  only 
unhappiness  to  all  of  them.  She  urged  Belle  to  return 
to  New  York  and  even  pleaded  with  Lorenzo  to  send 
Belle  away.  Believing  himself  in  love  with  Gail,  Lorenzo 


had  accompanied  her  on  a  visit  to  Basil  Dunbar — his 
employer  at  the  Queen  Charlotte  Mines — for  the  purpose 
of  asking  help  in  convincing  Belle  to  return  to  New  York. 
As  Belle  struggled  hopelessly  to  convince  Lorenzo 
that  Phoebe  Larkins  was  not  his  wife,  Phoebe  struck 
still  another  blow.  Roger  Caxton  appeared  on  the  scene 
with  a  letter  of  introduction  to  Basil  Dunbar.  Roger 
presented  himself  as  being  interested  in  studying .  the 
mines.  Upon  meeting  Phoebe  and  Lorenzo,  Roger 
showed  immediate  recognition  and  claimed  he  had  met 
them  before  in  Kansas  City  when  Lorenzo — as  Jerry 
Lorenz — had  been  married  to  Phoebe. 

See  Next  Page ► 


LORENZO  JONES 

(Continued) 


Although  Belle  realizes  that  patience  is  needed  to  help 
Lorenzo  regain  his  memory,  she  is  harried  by  the  evil 
purposes  she  senses  behind  Phoebe's  claims  and  the 
appearance  of  Roger  Caxton.  But  Belle  is  alone  in  her 
suspicions  and  can  find  no  proof  to  support  them.  Even 
Basil  Dunbar,  who  had  befriended  and  employed  Ld* 
renzo,  is  willing  to  accept  Roger.  Of  all  those  involved, 
Basil  alone  has  no  personal  interest  in  the  conflicting 
claims  and  seeks  only  the  truth  in  the  matter.  Yet  he 
can  find  no  reason  to  doubt  either  Phoebe  or  Roger. 


Belle's  intuition  of  danger  has  been  even  more  ac- 
curate than  she  herself  realized.  Clever  and  unscrupu- 
lous, Roger  could  have  been  lying  when  he  claimed  to 
have  known  Lorenzo,  but  it  is  certainly  true  that  he  and 
Phoebe  are  old  friends.  Roger  has  masterminded  a  plan 
to  work  together  with  Phoebe  to  steal  the  gold  from 
the  Queen  Charlotte  Mines,  then  to  place  the  blame  on 
Lorenzo.  To  prepare  the  way  for  proving  Lorenzo's 
guilt,  Phoebe  has  constantly  tried  to  show  that  he  has 
frequent  lapses  of  memory.  She  has  even  planted  sugges- 


rs. 


6.  Though  Belle  can  find  no  proof  to  support  her  suspicions,  they  are  increased  when  she  hears  Roger  Caxton  trying  to 
get  information  from  Gail  and  Lorenzo — both  of  whom  work  as  scientists  in  the  mines.  Belle  is  heartsick  as  she  remembers 
the  suggestions  which  have  been  planted  concerning  Lorenzo's  frequent  lapses  of  memory  and  his  "possibly  criminal"  mind. 


£4**$?*^ 


£ 


JktL 


* 


■'•" 


<r 


7.  In  a  moment  when  he  believes  Belle  to  be  in  danger, 
Lorenzo  seems  about  to  remember  her  as  his  true  wife. 
Then  he  slips  back  again  into  the  confusion  of  amnesia. 


tions  that  Lorenzo  has  a  criminal  mind!  With  this  estab- 
lished, Roger  and  Phoebe  feel  certain  they  can  easily 
place  the  guilt  for  the  robbery  on  Lorenzo  while  they 
themselves  escape  with  a  fortune  in  gold. 

With  Roger's  and  Phoebe's  nefarious  scheme  nearing 
fruition,  Belle,  distraught  with  worry  over  Lorenzo, 
senses  that  some  great  disaster  is  impending — and  that 
only  she  herself  is  wholeheartedly  interested  in  pro- 
tecting Lorenzo  and  guarding  against  any  traps  which 
may  have  been  set  for  him.  However,  even  Belle 
doesn't  realize  that  she  is  racing  against  time — for 
Roger  and  Phoebe  may  put  their  scheme  into  operation 
at  any  moment.  Will  she  be  able  to  find  the  proof  to 
back  up  her  suspicions  before  Lorenzo  finds  himself  ac- 
cused as  a  thief  and  the  betrayer  of  his  good  friend, 
Basil  Dunbar?  Once,  in  a  past  that  for  Belle  seems  dim 
and  far  away  in  the  midst  of  her  present  unhappiness 
and  trouble — and  that  for  Lorenzo  is  concealed  by  the 
darkness  and  confusion  of  his  loss  of  memory — Belle  and 
Lorenzo  Jones  were  married  and  lived  happily  together. 
Will  Belle — even  bringing  all  her  love  and  patience  to 
bear — find  a  way  to  restore  this  past  and  save  Lorenzo 
from  possible  ignominy  and  ruin? 


Pictured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Lorenzo  Jones John  Rahy 

Belle  Jones Lucille  Wall 

Basil  Dunbar Alfred  Shirley 

Phoebe  Larkins Julie  Stevens 

Roger  Caxton Horace  Braham 

Gail  Maddox Fran  Carlon 

Lorenzo  Jones  is  heard  on  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  5:15  P.M.  EST,  as 
sponsored  by  Fab,  Palmolive  Soap,  and  Colgate  Dental   Cream. 


8.  Preferring  to  believe  that  Phoebe  Larkins  is  really 
Lorenzo's  wife,  Gail  Maddox  tries  to  make  a  deal  with 
Phoebe  to  divorce  Lorenzo  so  she  herself  can  marry  him. 


9.  As  three  women  make  conflicting  claims  for  his  love, 
Lorenzo  Jones  is  more  deeply  confused.  He  searches  his 
darkened  memory  for  a  clue  to  the  question  "Who  am  I?" 


47 


Like  all  individuals,  Patience  and  Charlie  are 

entitled  to  their  own  ideas.  I  try  to  help 

only  when  asked — even  about  clothes  or  cookery. 


Every  girl  a 


By  JEANNE  CAGNEY 


All  people  have  something  about  them  that 
is  beautiful,  something  that  is  their 
own.   For  example,  whenever  I  sit  at 
the  dining-room  table  with  my  husband's 
and  my  guests,  I  am  struck  with  this  richness 
of  nature:  I  hear  a  voice  which  is  a  lovely 
musical  melody,  or  see  a  pair  of  eyes  which 
always  smile,  or  a  special  and  proper 
charm  of  agreeableness  and  understanding. 
Wherever  I  look,  I  see  that  nature  has 
laid  for  each  the  foundations  of  an  inner 
beauty' — but  I  also  feel  it's  up  to  the 
individual  to  develop,  to  build  on  it. 

Our  viewers  and  the  ladies  in  our  audience 
know  me  as  the  fashion  coordinator  on  Jack 
Bailey's  Queen  For  A  Day.  Because  of  this, 
they  frequently  (Continued  on  page  73) 

Jeanne  Cagney  is  fashion  commentator  on  Queen  For  A 
Day,  as  heard  over  Mutual,  M-F,  at  11:30  A.M.  EST; 
sponsored  by  P.  Lorillard  Co.  for  Old  Gold  Cigarettes. 


48 


il 


fashion  QUEEN 


The  right  clothes  for  you  can  change  your  life — not 
for  just  a  day — but  for  a  whole,  satisfying  future! 


Imagination  helps  achieve  your 
dreams.  But  being  practical 
helps,   too.   Be  sure  to  check  your 
wardrobe — present  end  planned 
— before  you  start  any  shopping. 


"Home  style"  is  best  of  all!  My  husband,  Jack  Morrison,  and  I  relax  as  the  children 

help  in  the  kitchen.  Jack  and  Charlie  relax(!)   in  their  own  fashion,  while  I   study  a   script. 


(Right)  Timekeeper  Renee  and  emcee  Peter  may  know  the  answers,  but  the  show's 
witty  panelists  have  to  guess  the  identity  of  the  mystery  guests.  (Below)  His  mynah 
bird  talks  "human"  very  well — but  Peter  speaks  bird   language   even   better! 


Mr.  Donald  has  met  people  the  world  over — 
and  he  can  imitate  them  all,  without  benefit  of  disguise 

By  ELEANOR  POLLOCK 

Peter  Donald  collects  people  the  way  other  folk  collect  curios  or  stamps. 
In  fact,  people  are  not  only  his  hobby  but  his  business.   Peter,  who 
moderates  Masquerade  Party,  over  ABC-TV,  is  a  master  mimic  and 
dialectician,  and  anyone  he  meets  is  apt  to  add  something  to  his  vast 
gallery  of  characterizations  and  dialects.  Peter  has  what  he  calls  "a  parrot's 
ear."  Let  him  just  hear  a  few  sentences  from  anyone,  in-stny  language, 
and  he's  off  in  a  perfect  imitation.  This  trick,  which  has  put  money  in  the 
bank,  has  also  caused  him  a  bit  of  trouble  now  and  again — for  some 
people  shy  away  from  him,  fearing  that  they  will  (Continued  on  page  69) 
\ 

Masquerade  Party,  ABC-TV,  Wed.,  9  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  alternately  by  Remington  Electric- 
Shaver  Div.  of   Remington-Rand,  Inc.,  and   Esquire  Shoe   Polishes    (Knomark  Mfg.   Co.) 


lieu 


Peter  has  many  books  on  humor  *  . . 


50 


OGDEfl  (1RSH 


ILKR  CHRSE 


v^/ 


Masquerade  Party 

a  dog  named  "Cookie"  .  . .  and  a  prize  collection  of  helmets  and  honorary  badges  which  he  loves  to  show  to  fellow  "fire  buffs." 


n*i 


W  rf—^* 


i&r- 


4' 


(Right)  Timekeeper  Renee  and  emcee  Peter  may  know  the  answers,  but  the  show  s 
witty  panelists  have  to  guess  the  identity  of  the  mystery  guests.  (Below)  His  mynah 
bird  talks  "human"  very  well— but  Peter  speaks  bird   language  even   better! 


Mr.  Donald  has  met  people  the  world  over 

and  he  can  imitate  them  all,  without  benefit  of  disguise 
By  ELEANOR  POLLOCK 

Peter  Donald  collects  people  the  way  other  folk  collect  curios  or  stamps 
In  fact  people  are  not  only  his  hobby  but  his  business.  Peter  whT 
moderates  Masquerade  Party,  over  ABC-TV  is  a  .,»*,  m'  j 

dialectician  and  anyone  he  meets  is  apt  to  add  Imething  to  hTvTt  "* 
gallery  o  charactenzaUons  and  dialects.  Peter  has  what  he  cafc  W,* , 
ear.    Let  him  just  hear  a  few  sentences  from  anyone  in-awTbmm.fw 
and  he's  off  in  a  perfect  imitation.  This  trick  whiT^"^  ""Wage, 
bank,  has  also  caused  him  a  bit  of  t  ouWe  ^otatd  lat  7°°*  '"  ** 
people  shy  away  from  him,  fearingXt  **yZ£J&$£ ££,  „9) 

tsqmre  Shoe  Polishes  (Knomnrk  Mfg.  Co.) 


fitt 


a 


Peter  hos  many  books  on  bui 


Masquerade  Party 

a  dog  named  "Cookie"  ...  and  a  prize  collection  of  helmets  and  honorary  badges  which  he  loves  to  show  to  fellow  "fire  buffs.' 


ijikfA  uio  on 


ARMSTRONG  CIRCLE  THEATER 


Stars  and  scenes  from  one  of 

TV's  pioneer  dramatic  programs 


FULFILLING  its  aim  to  provide  adult  audiences 
with  excitingly  different  productions,  Armstrong 
Circle  Theater  has  combined  the  talents  of  outstand- 
ing writers  and  technicians,  plus  leading  stage, 
screen,  radio  and  TV  performers  to  present  each 
week  a  half -hour  of  televiewing  at  its  dramatic  best. 


Armstrong  Circle  Theater  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  Tuesday  at  9 :30 
P.M.  EST,  and  is  sponsored  by  the  Armstrong  Cork  Co.  for 
Linoleum,  Resilient  Tiles,  Quaker  Rugs  and  Floor  Coverings. 


Familiar  to  viewers  of  Mr.  Peepers  as  Harvey 
Weskit,  Tony  Randall  has  come  an 
exciting  and  varied  way  since  he  was  born, 
February  26,  1924,  in  Tulsa,  Oklahoma.   After 
graduation  from  Northwestern  University — 
where  he  met  and  married  an  attractive  fellow 
student,  Florence  Gibbs — Tony  and  his  bride 
came  to  New  York.  There  Tony  studied 
at  the  Neighborhood  Playhouse  School  and, 
in  1941,  made  his  professional  debut  in 
the  Chinese  classic,  "The  Circle  of  Chalk."  Next 
came  the  difficult  role  of  Marchbanks  in 
Shaw's  "Candida,"  which  starred  the  late 
Jane  Cowl,  followed  by  his  appearance  with 
Ethel  Barrymore  in  "The  Corn  Is  Green."  After 
signing  for  a  role  in  "The  Skin  of  Our 
Teeth,"  Tony  had  to  forego  appearing  in  the 
Tallulah  Bankhead — Fredric  March  hit  to 
fulfill  a  four-year  command  performance  with 
the  Army  Signal  Corps.  Upon  his  discharge 
in  1946,  Tony  became  staff  director  of  the 
Olney  Summer  Theater  in  Maryland,  then 
joined  Katharine  Cornell  in  a  national  tour  of 
"The  Barretts  of  Wimpole  Street."  In  1948, 
he  joined  Miss  Cornell  again  to  open  on 
Broadway  in  Shakespeare's  "Antony  and 
Cleopatra."    Still  in   Cleopatra's  wake,  he 
appeared   with   Lilli    Palmer    and   Sir    Cedric 
Hardwicke  in  Shaw's  "Caesar  and  Cleopatra." 
During  the  past  ten  years,  Tony  has  also 
scored  many  radio  and  TV  credits,  including 
The  Henry  Morgan  Show,  I  Love  A  Mystery, 
One  Man's  Family  and  Television  Playhouse. 
With  his  wife  Florence,  Tony  enjoys 
collecting  modern  paintings  and  classical  records. 
He  also  plays  a  good  game  of  paddle  ball 
with  his  friend  and  colleague,  Wally  Cox. 


Walter   Abel,  whose   performances   always 
live  up  to  his  name,  is  equally  at  home 
in  Hollywood,  on  Broadway,  or  in  radio 
and  TV.  A  native  of  St.  Paul,  Minnesota, 
Walter  acted  in  little-theater  productions 
before  coming  to  New  York  to  study  at  the 
American  Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts. 
Two  years  later,  on  the  eve  of  his  graduation, 
he  appeared  in  an  Academy  play  and  was 
noticed  by  producer  Henry  Miller,  who 
gave  Walter  a  contract  with  the  road  company 
of  "Come  Out  of  the  Kitchen."  The  following 
year,  1919,  Walter  made  his  Broadway 
debut  in  "A  Square  Peg"  and  for  the 
next  fifteen  years  appeared  in  plays  in  and 
around  New  York.    When,  in  1934,  he  created 
a  minor  sensation  in  "Merrily  We  Roll 
Along,"  Walter  was  immediately  signed  to 
a  Hollywood  contract.    His  first  movie  was 
"Three  Musketeers,"  followed  by  such 
outstanding  films  as  "Kiss  and  Tell,"  with  Shirley 
Temple,  "Dream  Girl,"  and  "So  This  Is 
Love."  Most  recently,  Walter  has  continued 
to  prove  his  versatility  by  appearing  on  top 
TV  drama  shows  such  as  Robert  Montgomery 
Presents  and  Armstrong  Circle  Theater. 
Married  to  Marietta  Bitter  for  28  years, 
Walter  has  two  children,  Michael  and  Jonathan. 


As  star  of  "The  Judged,"  Walter  has  a  pre-show 
chat  with  Barbara  O'Neil  and  the  ROTC  cadets 
who  appeared  in  the  play  about  military  school  life. 

One  of  the  most  popular  leading  ladies  in  television, 
gentle,  soft-spoken   Carmen  Mathews  made   her 
professional  debut  in  England  after  graduation  from  the 
Royal  Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts.   Her  American 
debut  was  with  the  Maurice  Evans  company  of  "Henry 
IV."   In  subsequent  years,  Carmen  ran  the  gamut  of  plays 
from  "Hamlet"  to  "Beaux'  Strategem"  (her  favorite) 
and  "Courtin'  Time,"  with  Joe  E.  Brown.  TV-wise, 
Carmen's  numerous  credits  include  starring  roles  on 
Omnibus,  Danger,  Kraft  Theater  and  U.  S.   Steel  Hour. 
In  addition  to  her  Manhattan  apartment,  Carmen 
has  a  Connecticut  cottage  where  she  lives  in  the  summer 
and  enjoys  sailing  and  swimming.   Her  apartment 
sports  a  fine  collection  of  modern  paintings,  plus  a 
dachshund — Archer — given  to  her  by  the  Brian  Ahernes. 
And,  says  Carmen,  "One  of  the  things  dearest  to  me 
that  I  do  is  record  books  at  the  Foundation  for  the  Blind." 


I 


Carmen 
Mathews 


On  the  slow  road  to  recovery  in 
"Breakdown,"  Carmen  finds  some 
solace  in  playing  with  little  Ei- 
leen Pollack  and  Kevin  Coughlin. 


ROBERT  Q.  LEWIS  set  sail  for 


Laughter 

across  the  SEAS 


With  the  help  of  secretary  Nancy  Robinson, 
Robert  Q.  clears  the  decks  for  a  vacation. 


By  PHILIP  CHAPMAN 

What  makes  Robert  Q.  Lewis  tick  ? 
Today,  thanks  to  his  TV  and 
radio  shows  over  CBS,  every 
listener  knows  Bob's  droll  wit 
and  voice,  every  viewer  knows  the 
quizzical  smile  and  twinkling  glasses. 
Mr.  Lewis  has  arrived.  But  how 
did  he  get  there? 

Ask  Robert  Q.  that  question,  back 
in  1953 — when  he  was  just  getting 
a  firm  grip  on  the  ladder — and 
his  answer  would  have  been  short, 
quick  and  to  the  point:  Hard  work. 

Ask  him  that  question,  in  mid- 
1954 — when  fame  and  fortune  were 
already  well  in  his  grasp — and 
Bob  might  have  had  no  answer 
at  all.   (Continued  on  page  78) 

The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show  on  CBS-TV, 
M-F,  2  P.M.  EST,  for  Miles  Laboratories 
(makers  of  Alka-Seltzer),  Helene  Curtis 
(Spray  Net  and  Lanolin  Discovery),  Betty 
Crocker  Cake  Mixes,  O-Cel-0  Sponges, 
Hellmann's  Mayonnaise,  Nucoa,  Johnson's 
Wax,  Swanson  Frozen  Poultry,  Doeskin 
Tissues,  and  others.  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show  on  CBS  Radio,  Sat.,  11  A.M.  EST,  for 
Helene  Curtis  (Suave  and  Shampoo  Plus 
Egg),  Royal  Crown  Cola,  Van  Camp  Tuna, 
Pine-Sol,  Gala  Bleach,  and  other  products. 


54 


the  Old  World  and  found  some  new  friends  and  adventures,  both  grave  and  gay 


Godfrey  Time:   Bob   with   McGuire   Sisters      Sailing   time:    Mrs.    John    Alden    Talbot      Bon  voyage:  Bob  gives  a  lingering 
— when   he  was   "substituting"   for  Arthur.      helps   Bob  try  on  a   life  jacket  for  size.      goodbye  kiss  to  his  proud  parents. 


Robert  Q.  at  home:  Members  of  his  own  shows  gather  at  Bob's  apartment  for  a  party.  Seated,  left  to  right,  Don  Liberto, 
Jaye  P.  Morgan,  Lois  Hunt.  Standing,  Marjorie  Needham,  Lynn  Evans,  Bob,  Earl  Wrightson,  Janet  Ertel,  Carol  Bushman. 


I  1 :48  A.M.  Minutes  after  another  Make  Up  Your  Mind  broadcast, 
Jack   signs    his    autograph,   then    heads   for   LaSuardia    Airport. 


12:25  P.M.  Boarding  Mel  Lamb's  (center)  chartered  plane — Jack 
Newhouse,  Jack  Sterling  Show  producer,  waits  to  follow  Sterling. 


CBS  listeners  and  viewers  who 

have  always  admired 

Jack  Sterling  can  now  proudly  call  him 


2:45  P.M.   Dressed  in  fishing  togs  and  well  out  to  sea  off  Mon- 
tauk    Point,    L.    I.,    the    two    Jacks    prepare    to    cast    their    lines. 


3:15  P.M.  "What  a  whopper!"  Jack  shrieks  with  glee,  as  he 


Early  last  winter,  Jack  Sterling  added  a  new  fea- 
ture to  his  popular  morning  Jack  Sterling  Show 
over  WCBS:  the  fishing  news.  As,  day  by  day,  he 
briefed  anglers  on  pertinent  fishing  facts,  Jack  accumu- 
lated a  fine  knowledge  of  the  subject.  But,  until  re- 
cently, all  this  fascinating  lore  was  being  gathered  for 
naught  as  far  as  Jack  himself  was  concerned,  for  the 
likable  emcee  not  only  didn't  have  time  to  fish  but  had 
never  been  fishing  in  his  life!  Finally,  however,  Jack's 
yearning  to  wield  a  fishing  rod  got  the  better  of  him 
and,  despite  his  many  commitments  and  extreme  lack 
of  time,  he  figured  out  how  to  get  in  some  fishing  with- 
out forgoing  any  of  his  business  chores.    Deciding  to 


56 


a  STERLING  FISHERMAN 


5:15  P.M.  Sterling  soon  proves  himself  to  be  an  expert  fish- 
story  teller  as  he  tells  Newhouse  of  the  big  one  that  got  away. 


lands'  his  first  catch,  his  very  first  time  as  a  fisherman. 


test  his  angling  abilities  off  Montauk  Point — which  is 
some  127  miles  from  the  CBS  studios  in  New  York — 
Jack  chartered  a  plane.  Just  three  hours  after  a  broad- 
cast of  Make  Up  Your  Mind,  he  and  Jack  Newhouse, 
producer  of  the  Jack  Sterling  Show,  were  casting  their 
lines  in  Long  Island'  Sound.  By  7  P.M.,  Jack  was  the 
proud  possessor  of  a  fine  catch — and  one  of  the  hap- 
piest newly  initiated  fishermen  to  be  found  anywhere. 

Jack  Sterling  emcees  Make  Up  Your  Mind,  CBS  Radio,  M-F  11:30 
A.M.  for  Wonder  Bread  and  Hostess  Cup  Cakes.  He's  ringmaster 
for  Sealtest  Big  Top,  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  noon.  Jack  Sterling  Show, 
WCBS  Radio  (New  York),  Mon.  thru  Sat.,  5:30  A.M.  (All  EST) 


7:00  P.M.  End  of  a  perfect  day  with  a  perfect  catch — seventeen 
bluefish  for  Jack — a  good  haul  for  any  angler,  pro  or  amateur. 


57 


I 


CBS  listeners  and  viewers  who 

have  always  admired 

Jack  Sterling  can  now  proudly  call  him 


a  STERLING  FISHERMAN 


5:15  P.M.  Sterling  soon  proves  himself  to  be  an  expert  fish- 
story  teller  os  he  tells  Newhouse  of  the  big  one  that  got  away. 


2:45  P.M.  Dressed  in  fishing  togs  and  well  out  to  sea  off  Mon- 
tauk    Point,    L.    I.,    the   two    Jacks    prepare   to    cost   their    lines 


3: 1 5  P.M.  "What  a  whopper!"  Jack  shrieks  with  glee,  as  he 


Eably  last  winter,  Jack  Sterling  added  a  new  fea- 
ture to  his  popular  morning  Jack  Sterling  Show 
over  WCBS:  the  fishing  news.  As,  day  by  day,  he 
briefed  anglers  on  pertinent  fishing  facts,  Jack  accumu- 
lated a  fine  knowledge  of  the  subject.  But,  until  re- 
cently, all  this  fascinating  lore  was  being  gathered  for 
naught  as  far  as  Jack  himself  was  concerned,  for  the 
likable  emcee  not  only  didn't  have  time  to  fish  but  had 
never  been  fishing  in  his  life!  Finally,  however,  Jacks 
yearning  to  wield  a  fishing  rod  got  the  better  of  mm 
and,  despite  his  many  commitments  and  extreme  lack 
of  time,  he  figured  out  how  to  get  in  some  fishing  with- 
out forgoing  any  of  his  business  chores.    Deciding  to 


lands'  his  first  catch,  his  very  first  time  as  a  fisherman. 


test  his  angling  abilities  off  Montauk  Point — which  is 
some  127  miles  from  the  CBS  studios  in  New  York — 
Jack  chartered  a  plane.  Just  three  hours  after  a  broad- 
cast of  Make  Up  Your  Mind,  he  and  Jack  Newhouse, 
producer  of  the  Jack  Sterling  Show,  were  casting  their 
lines  in  Long  Island'  Sound.  By  7  P.M.,  Jack  was  the 
proud  possessor  of  a  fine  catch — and  one  of  the  hap- 
piest newly  initiated  fishermen  to  be  found  anywhere. 

lack  Sterling  emcees  Make  Up  Your  Mind.  CBS  Radio,  M-F  11:30 
A.M.  for  Wonder  Bread  and  Hostess  Cup  Cakes.  He's  ringmaster 
for  Seallesl  Big  Top,  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  noon.  Jack  Sterling  Show, 
WCBS  Radio  (New  York),  Mon.  thru  Sat..  5:30  A.M.  (All  EST) 


7:00  P.M.  End  of  a  perfect  day  with  a  perfect  catch — seventeen 
bluefish  for  Jack — a  good  haul  for  any  angler,  pro  or  amateur. 


Kit  Carson  finds  his  Mate 


For  Bill  Williams  and  Barbara  Hale, 
marriage  is  one  continued  love  story 


Names  have  been  the  only  real  problem  in  the  Williams' 
life  together.  At  latest  check-up,  their  boy  is  Bill,  Jr., 
their  older  girl,  Jody — and  the  baby,  "Da'by"  (for  short). 


58 


By  BETTY  MILLS 


Marriage  is  like  a  long  book,"  says  Barbara 
Hale  Williams,  wife  of  Bill  Williams,  TV's 
Kit  Carson.  "Some  of  the  chapters  are  the 
greatest;  others  you  think  you'll  never  get  through. 
And  when  you  have  children — the  plot  grows!" 

The  story  of  Barbara's  and  Bill's  life  together 
began  at  RKO,  where  they  were  both  under 
contract  in  1945.   They  knew  one  another  well 
enough  to  exchange  friendly  hellos,  though  at  the 
time  Barbara  was  going  steady  with  another 
actor.  One  day,  after  a  spat  with  her  beau, 
Barbara  met  Bill  in  the  reception  room  of  the 
drama  coach's  office,  where  they  were  both 
waiting  for  an  appointment. 

"Hi,"  said  Bill. 

"Good  morning,"  said  Barb. 

Bill  asked,  "How's  your  man?" 

"We're  not  going  together  any  more,"  said 
Barbara.  (Continued  on  page  75) 


Bill  Williams  stars  in  The  Adventures  Of  Kit  Carson,  which  is 
presented  on  TV  by  the  Coca-Cola  Bottling  Company  in  your 
area.  Consult  local  newspapers  for  correct  time  and  station. 


Jody  and  her  little  brother  take  to  Western 
ways  like  true  children  of  Kit  Carson — and 
Daddy's  right  there  to  teach  them  the  ropes. 


A  Pretty  Wonderful  Guy 

(Continued  from  page  38) 
cast  despite  that  early  morning  grumbling 
— for  it  makes  sense  to  cast  Grant  as  a 
well-intentioned  young  man.  The  last  time 
he  was  a  video  villain,  he  got  so  much  fan 
mail  that  they  had  to  convert  him  into  a 
good  guy! 

"That  was  on  a  kid's  show,  and  it  got  to 
be  embarrassing  that  the  kids  liked  a  heel," 
he  says.  "So  I  repented — just  before  they 
wrote  me  out  of  the  script." 

Grant  has  acted  on  the  Kraft  and  Philco 
theaters,  The  Web  and  Suspense,  Love  Of 
Life  and  other  adult  dramas,  in  addition  to 
Tom  Corbett,  Space  Cadet  and  Captain 
Video.  But  the  adult  shows  are  somewhat 
anemic  when  compared  with  the  adventure 
in  shows  for  youngsters.  When,  for 
example,  he  was  being  mean  to  Captain 
Video,  he  was  cast  as  Spartak  from  the 
Black  Planet.  As  an  operations  officer  for 
Tom  Corbett,  he  was  stationed  on  the 
moon. 

"Something  exciting  was  always  happen- 
ing," he  recalls.  "Once,  Tom  and  I  were 
stuck  fifty  million  miles  out  in  space  with 
a  broken  rudder.  We  were  trying  to  re- 
pair the  ship  while  fiery  meteors  rained 
about  us.  And  then  the  director  signalled 
us  we  were  running  two  minutes  short 
and  we  had  to  ad-lib  the  rest  of  our  lines! 
Brother,  that's  dangerous  living."  He  grins 
and  sighs,  "You  know,  after  that  kind  of 
experience,  a  man  appreciates  a  warm 
place  by  a  twentieth -century  hearth." 

It  would  be  wrong  to  imply  that  Grant 
is  an  "aging,"  put-another-log-on-the-fire 
type.  He's  young  enough  not  to  have  to 
think  hard  to  remember  the  hot-rod  he 
built  as  a  teenager  in  California.  But,  on 
the  other  hand,  in  his  thirty  years  he  has 
been  "living  it  up" — as  an  auto  racer,  tele- 
phone linesman,  clerk,  meteorologist,  the- 
ater usher,  and  a  few  other  things.  Grant 
could  be  accurately  described  as  a  mature 
and  responsible  man. 

"He's  a  complex  character,"  says  Mary. 
"He  can  be  as  stubborn  as  a  mule  about 
ideas,  and  yet  he  is  as  sweet  and  playful 
as  a  puppy.  He's  a  rugged  individualist 
and  yet  a  sloppy  sentimentalist,  too." 

Grant  has  no  respect  for  men's  fashions. 
Summer  or  winter,  at  home  or  in  the 
studio,  he  dresses  for  comfort.  He  has  no 
respect  for  a  necktie  but,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  meticulous  when  it  comes  to  ob- 
serving all  the  rules  about  roses  on  anni- 
versaries and  a  kiss  before  he  leaves  home 
in  the  morning. 

"With  Grant,  there's  never  a  dull  mo- 
ment— but  never  a  dreadful  one,  either," 
says  Mary.  "He's  a  pretty  wonderful  guy 
and,  when  I  think  of  how  lucky  we  were 
to  meet,  I  kind  of  get  the  chills." 

They  were  born  about  three  thousand 
miles  apart.  Mary  Samuel,  whose  father 
was  a  minister,  lived  in  the  East.  Grant 
grew  up  in  California. 

"I  loved  it  there  and  I  miss  it  now,"  he 
says.     "I  was  a  typical  beach  rat  as  a  kid." 

He  was  the  oldest  of  three  brothers,  all 
of  whom  'spent  whole  days  on  the  beach 
swimming,  water  skiing,  learning  about 
boats.  Away  from  the  surf,  he  was  al- 
ways building  mechanical  things — soap- 
box scooters,  model  planes  and  even  a  hot- 
rod. 

"Mother  always  encouraged  us  in  our 
hobbies,"  he  says.  "When  we  were  ex- 
cited about  racing,  she  took  us  to  the  auto 
races." 

Grant's  parents  separated  when  he  was 
about  thirteen  and,  from  then  on,  he  and 
his   brothers   were   raised   by   his   mother. 

"It  was   quite   a   load  for  her,   but  she 
never  showed  it,"  he  says.     "She's  always 
been  a  young,  sweet  kind  of  person  and 
(Continued  on  page  63) 


Whether  You  Brush  Your  Teeth 
Just  Once  Jwicef  or  3  Times  a  Day. 


Colgate  Dental  Cream 

Gives  The  Surest  Protection 

ALL  DAY  LONG ! 


&&&cucd&/   Only  New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 

—Of  All  Leading  Toothpastes— Contains  GARDOL* 

To  Stop  Bad  Breath  Instantly . .  Guard  Against  Tooth  Decay  Longer! 


Gardol,  Colgate's  wonderful  new 
decay-fighter,  forms  an  invisible 
shield  around  your  teeth.  You 
can't  feel  it,  taste  it,  or  see  it— 
but  Gardol's  protection  won't 
rinse  off  or  wear  off  all  day. 
That's  why  Colgate's— the  only 
leading  toothpaste  to  contain 
Gardol— gives  the  surest  pro- 
tection ever  offered  by  any 
toothpaste*' 


Your  dentist  will  tell  you  how  often  you 
should  brush  your  teeth.  But  whether 
that's  once,  twice,  or  three  times  a  day,  be 
sure  you  use  New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 
with  Gardol!  Colgate's  stops  bad  breath 
instantlytn  7  out  of  10  cases  that  originate 
in  the  mouth!  Fights  tooth  decay  12  hours 
or  more!  In  fact,  clinical  tests  showed  the 
greatest  reduction  in  tooth  decay  in  tooth- 
paste history! 


♦Colgate's  Trade-Mark  For  Sodium 
N-Lauroyl  Sarcosinate.  Patent  No.  2.689.170 


Every  Time  You  Use  It. ..New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 

CLEANS  YOUR  BREATH  ^GUARDS  YOUR  TEETH! 


59 


60 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Standard  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 

Local  Program 

8:45 

Gabriel  Heatter1 

John  MacVane 

8:55  It  Happens 

8:55  Betty  Crockert 

Every  Day- 

9:00 

Robert  Hurleigh 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

9:15 

Wifesaver 

9:30 

Johnny  Olson  Show 

9:45  lEv'ry  Day 

10:00  Mary  Margaret 

Cecil  Brown 

My  True  Story 

Arthur  Godfrey  Show 

McBride 

10:15   10:05  Bob  Smith 

Kenny  Baker  Show 

10:25   Whispering 

10:30       Show 

News 

10:35  Madeleine 

Streets 

10:45  Break  The  Bank 

Carroll's  Story- 
time 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

11:00  Strike  It  Rich 

Florida  Calling  With 

Modern  Romances 

Arthur  Godfrey 

11:15 

Tom  Moore 
11:25  Holland  Engle 

Ever  Since  Eve 

(con.) 

11:30  Phrase  That  Pays 

Queen  For  A  Day 

Thy  Neighbor's  Voice  Make  Up  Your  Mind 

11:45 

Second  Chance 

Three-City  Byline 

Rosemary 

Afternoon 

12:00 

12:15 

12:30 
12:45 


Programs 


1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

2:00 
2:15 


2:30 
2:45 


3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 


4:00 
4:15 


4:30 
4:45 


Pauline  Frederick 
Reporting 


Break  The  Bank 


Valentino 


Capitol  Commentary  Frank  Farrell 

with  Les  Higgie 
12:20  Down  At 

Holmsey's 


News,  Cedric  Foster  Paul  Harvey, 
Luncheon  At  Sardi's  Ted  Malone 
Ted  Steele  Show 


News 


Luncheon  With 

Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 

Hayes 
Wonderful  City 


News 

3:05  Women  In  Love 
Pepper  Young 
Right  To  Happiness 


Ruby  Mercer  Show 


Backstage  Wife 
Stella  Dallas 


Betty  Crockert 
2:35   Martin  Block 


Martin  Block  (con.) 


Tony  Martin's  Quiz 


Young  Widder  Brown  Bruce  &  Dan 
Woman  In  My  House 


5:00  Just  Plain  Bill 

5:15  Lorenzo  Jones 
5.-30  Hotel  For  Pets 
5:45  It  Pays  To  Be 
Married 


Bobby  Benson 
(Sgt.  Preston)' 

Wild  Bill  Hickok- 
(Bobby  Benson)' 

5:55  Cecil   Brown 

'T-TH  =M-W-F 


Reed  Browning 

Show 
4:25  Betty  Crockert 
Treasury  Bandstand 


Musical  Express1 
George  Anted 
Art  &  Dotty  Todd 
Gloria  Parker 
Vincent  Lopez 

'M-W-F^T-Th 
tT,  Th-Sheilah 
Graham 


Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Aunt  Jenny 

Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 


Road  Of  Life 
Ma  Perkins 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 


Second  Mrs.  Burton 
Perry  Mason 


This  Is  Nora  Drake 
Brighter   Day 


Hilltop  House 
Art  Linkletter's 

House  Party 
Mike  &  Buff's 

Mailbag 


Treasury   Bandstand 
4:55  News 


Monday 


Evening  Programs 


6:00 

6:15  Sports  Daily  with 

Mel   Allen,   Russ 
6:30       Hodges 
6:45  Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


ABC  Reporter 


News 

5:05  John  Faulk 

Curt  Massey  Time 
5:55  This  I  Believe 


Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 

George  Hicks,  News  Lowell  Thomas 


7:00  Alex  Dreier,  Man       Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
7:15       On  The  Go  Dinner  Date 

7:30  News  Of  The  World  Gabriel   Heatter 
7:45   One   Man's    Family    In  The  Mood 


Vandercook,    News 
Quincy  Howe 
The  Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


8:00 

Best   Of  All 

Top  Secret  Files 

Henry  J.  Taylor         Meet  Corliss  Archer 

8:15 

American  Music  Hall 

8:30 

Broadway  Cop 

Voice  Of  Firestone 

Arthur  Godfrey's 

8:45 

Talent  Scouts 

9:00  Telephone  Hour 

9:15 

9:30  Band  Of  America 

9:45 


10:00   Fibber  McGee  t, 

Molly 
10:15  Great  Gildersleeve 


Manhattan 
Crossroads 
10:30  Two  In  The  Balcony   Distinguished 
Artists 


News,  Bill  Henry       Sammy  Kaye  Perry  Como 

9:05  Edward  Arnold 

Mutual   Newsreel       9:25  News  Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 

Reporters'  Roundup    Music  By  Camarata    Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 

Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 


News 


Headline  Edition 

Richard  Rendell, 

News 
Edwin  C.  Hill 
10.35  Martha  Lou 

Harp 


Tuesday 

Evening 

Programs 

6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 

Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 

Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Silver  Eagle 
7:55  Les  Griffith 

Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 

Treasury  Agent 

John  Steele, 
Adventurer 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

Stop  The  Music 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Lux  Radio  Theater 
Lux  Theater  (con.) 

News,  Bill  Henry 
9:05  Edward  Arnold 
Mutual  Newsreel 
Search  That  Never 

Ends 
9:55  Lome  Greene 

Sammy  Kaye 

E.  D.  Canham,  News 

Stop  The  Music 

(con.) 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 

Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 

Listen  To 
Washington 

News 

Manhattan 
Crossroads 

Headline  Edition 

Richard  Rendell, 

News 
Edwin  C.  Hill 

Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 

Wednesday 


Evening    Programs 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 


8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 


Walk  A  Mile 


You  Bet  Your  Life 


Big  Story 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 

Keys  To  The  Capital 


Thursday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Squad   Room 
Sentenced 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


News,  Bill  Henry      Sammy  Kaye 

9:05  Edward  Arnold 

Mutual   Newsreel 

Family  Theater  Brown  Derby 


Frank  Edwards 

Manhattan 

Crossroads 
Sounding  Board 


Headline  Edition 

Richard  Rendell, 

News 
Edwin  li.  Hill 


Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


FBI  In  Peace  And 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
21st  Precinct 


Perry  Como 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Evening    Programs 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Roy  Rogers 
8:25  News 
Bob  Hope  Show 


News 

9:05  Spend  A  Million 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 

7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 


10:30 


Fibber    McGee    & 

Molly 
Great   Gildersleeve 

Jane  Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official  Detective 
Crime  Fighters 


News,  Bill  Henry 
9:05  Edward  Arnold 
Mutual  Newsreel 
State  Of  The  Nation 


News 

Manhattan 

Crossroads 
Musical  Caravan 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Silver  Eagle 
7:55   Les   Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


National  Guard  Show 


Headline  Edition 

Richard  Rendell, 

News 
Edwin  C.  Hill 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost    Persons 


Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

Suspense 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 

Nightwatch 


Rosemary  Clooney 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Evening    Programs 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 
Friday  With 
Garroway 


Garroway  (con.) 


Boxing-Cavalcade 
Of  Sports 

Sports  Highlights 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Counter-Spy 
Take  A  Number 


News,  Bill  Henry 
9:05  Edward  Arnold 
Mutual  Newsreel 
Have  A  Heart 


News 
Manhattan 

Crossroads 
Fall  Out 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 


The  World  We 

Live  In 
9:55  Sport  Report 


Richard  Rendell, 

News 
Edwin   C     Hill 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 


Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell   Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Crime  Photographer 
8.-25  Doug  Edwards 
Godfrey  Digest 


Perry  Como 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 
Amos  V  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost   Persons 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Egbert  &  Ummly 

Local  Program 

News  Summary 

News 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Egbert  &  Ummly 

(con.) 
Eddie  Howard  Sings 

News 

9:05  No  School 
Today 

News  Of  America 
Garden  Gate 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 
10:45 

Eddie  Howard  (con.) 
Roadshow 

Travel  Guide 
Kite  Flight 

No  School 

Today  (con.) 
Space  Patrol 

News 

10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

11:00 
11:15 
11:30 
11:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 
Roadshow  (con.) 

Kite  Flight  (con.) 

11:05  Platterbrains 
All  League  Club- 
house 

Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show 

Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 
12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

National  Farm  And 

Home  Hour 
Roadshow  (con.) 

Farm  Quiz 

New  England 
Barn  Dance 

12:05  101  Ranch 

Boys 
American  Farmer 

Noon  News 
12:05  Romance 
Gunsmoke 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Fifth  Army  Band 
Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Navy  Hour 
Vincent  Lopez 

City  Hospital 
1:25  Galen  Drake 
News 

1:35  Peter  Lind 
Hayes  Show 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Metropolitan  Opera 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Metropolitan  Opera 
(con.) 

News 

4:00 

.  4:15 

4:30 

4:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Metropolitan  Opera 
(con.) 

News 
4:55  News 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Teenagers  Unlimited 

Brickhouse,  Sports 
5:55  News 

News 

5:05  Paulena  Carter 

Horse  Racing 

5:55  News 

Saturday  At  The 
Chase 

Evening   Programs 


6:00 

6:15 

6:30 
6:45 

News 

H.  V.  Kaltenborn 

On  The  Campus 

Musical  Almanac 

Men's  Corner 
6:55  Cecil  Brown 

6:05  Pan-American 

Union 
James  Crowley 

Reports 
Sports,  Bob  Finnegan 
Bob  Edge,  Sports 

Afield 

News 

Sports  Roundup 

Capitol  Cloakroom 

7:00 

7:15 

7:30 
7:45 

Stars  From  Paris 
College  Quiz  Bowl 

Sam  Levine,  Kegler 

Report  From 
Washington 
Keep  Healthy 
7:55  Globe  Trotter 

Bob  Mills,  Show 

Tunes 
Three    Suns 

Dinner  At  The  Green 
Room 

News 

7:05  Make  Way  For 
Youth 

Gangbusters 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

Conversation 
Boston  Symphony 

True  Or  False 

Magic  Valley 
Jamboree 

Dance  Party 

Gunsmoke 
Juke  Box  Jury 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 

Boston  Symphony 

(con.) 
Grand  Ole  Opry 

Hawaii  Calls 
Lombardo  Land 

Dance  Party  (con.) 

Two  For  The  Money 
Country  Style 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

Dude  Ranch 
Jamboree 

Pee  Wee  King  Show 

Chicago  Theater  Of 
The  Air 

News 
10:05  Ozark 

Jubilee 
Orchestra 

News,  Schorr 
10:05  Country 
Style  (con.) 
Louisville  Philhar- 
monic Orchestra 

Sunday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Light  And  Life  Hour 

Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 

9:00 
9:15 

9:30 
9:45 

World  News  Roundup 
Carnival  Of  Books 

Faith  In  Action 
Art  Of  Living 

Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 

News 

9:05  Milton  Cross 

Album 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 

World  News  Roundup 
The  Music  Room 

Organ  Music 
9:55  News 

10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 

National  Radio 
Pulpit 

Headlines  & 
Perspective 

Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 

News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 

Church  Of  The  Air 

Church  Of  The  Air 

(con.) 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 

11:45 

News 

11:05  Treasury  Of 

Music 
Pauline  Frederick 

At  UN 
UN  Assignment 

Frank  And  Ernest 

John  T.  Flynn 
Northwestern 
Reviewing  Stand 

Sunday  Melodies 
11:05  Marines  On 

Review 
News 
11:35  Christian  In 

Action 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 

Invitation  To 
Learning 

Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 
12:15 
12:30 

12:45 

Music  For 

Relaxation 
The  Eternal  Light 

Studio  Concerts 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 
Tune  Time 

Pan-American 

Union 
The  World  Tomorrow 

News,  LeSueur 

Howard  K.  Smith, 

World  Affairs 
News  Report 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

Youth  Wants  To 

Know 
Univ.  Of  Chicago 

Round  Table 

Global  Frontiers 
Lutheran  Hour 

Herald  Of  Truth 

News 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

Man's  Right  To 
Knowledge 

News 

1 :35  Syncopation 
Piece 

2:00 
2i15 
2:30 
2:45 

The  Catholic  Hour 
Anthology 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Tune  Time 
Merry  Mailman 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 

Symphonette 

New  York  Philhar- 
monic-Symphony 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Weekend 

Wonderful  City 

Tune  Time 
CBC  Symphony 

Sammy  Kaye 
Hour  Of  Decision 

New  York  Philhar- 
monic-Symphony 
(con.) 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Weekend  (con.) 

CBC   Symphony 

(con.) 
Flight  In  The  Blue 
4:55  Lome  Greene 

Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 

News,  LeSueur 
4:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Inheritance 
Dennis  Day  Show 

The  Shadow 

True  Detective 

Mysteries 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Youth  On  The  March 

Greatest  Story 
Ever  Told 

News 

5:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon  (con.) 
5:55  News,  LeSueur 

Evening   Programs 


6:00 

American  Forum 

Nick  Carter 

Monday  Morning 
Headlines 

Gene  Autry 

6:15 

On  The  Line,  Bob 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

6:30 

Travels  In  Tempo 

Considine 

Hall  Of  Fame 

6:45 

Wismer,  Sports 

7:00 

Special  Tribute 

Rod  And  Gun  Club 

News 

7:05  Quincy  Howe 

Jack  Benny 

7:15 

George  Sokolsky 

7:30 

Enchanted  Hour 

7:35  American 

Amos  V  Andy 

7:45 

Town  Meeting 

8:00 

Dr.  Six  Gun 

Heartbeat  Of 
Industry 

American  Town 
Meeting  (con.) 

Our  Miss  Brooks 

8:15 

Jimmy  Nelson  Show 

8.30 

Barrie  Craig 

Oklahoma  City 

My  Little  Margie 

8:45 

Symphony 

9:00 

Adventures  Of  The 

Oklahoma  City 

Walter  Winchell 

Edgar  Bergen  Show 

9:15 

Abbots 

Symphony  (con.) 

News.  Taylor  Grant 

9:30 

Easy  Money 

Manion  Forum. . 

Jimmy  Nelson  Show 

9:45 

Hazel  Market,  News 

(con.) 

10:00 

Fibber  McGee  And 
Molly 

Billy  Graham 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

News,  Schorr 
10:05  Mahalia  Jack- 

10:15 

Great    Gildersleeve 

Elmer  Davis 

son.  Gosoel  Singer 

10:30 

Meet  The  Press 

Little  Symphonies 

Revival  Time 

Face  The  Nation 

See   Next  Page- 


til 


JV  program   highlights 


NEW   YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  DECEMBER  8- JANUARY  7 


HOLIDAY  HIGHLIGHTS 


62 


P.M. 

5:00 
9:00 
Mon.,Dec.20&27  9:30 


DATE 

Sun.,  Dec.  19 


-Menotti's  opera. 

Copperfield"     by 


Wed.,  Dec.  22 
Thur.,  Dec.  23 

Fri.,  Dec.  24 
Sat.,  Dec.  25 

Fri.,  Dec.  31 
Sat.,  Jan.  1 


CH.      PROGRAM 

©      Am  a  111  And  The  Night  Visitors- 
©      Fred  Waring  Christmas  Show. 
O     Robert     Montgomery     Presents — "David 

Charles  Dickens,  in  two  parts. 
©     Arthur  Godfrey's  Christmas  Party. 

Q      Shower  Of   Stars — Maxwell  Anderson's  adaptation   for   tele- 
vision of  Charles  Dickens'  "Christmas  Carol." 
Midnight  Mass — from  St.  Patrick's  Cathedral. 
Christmas  Day  Church  Services — Episcopal,  from  Washing- 
ton, D.  C,  Cathedral. 
11 :00         ©  ©  &  O   New  Year's  Eve  Party. 
12:15         ©      Tournament  of  Roses. 
1:00-4:45         Football:    ©    Orange  Bowl,  Miami    ©    Cotton   Bowl,  Dallas 
©    Sugar   Bowl,   New  Orleans    ©    Rose   Bowl,  Los   Angeles. 


8:00 
8:30 

12:00         © 
11  :00  a.m.© 


Monday  through  Friday 


7:00   ©  Morning  Show— Jack  shoots  Paar 

©  &  00  Today— Getaway  with  Garroway 
8:00  ©  Good  Morning— Scotty  &  Gould 
9:00  ©  George  Skinner  Show— Variety 

©  Herb  Sheldon— Nice,  friendly  stuff 
©  Don   McNeill's  Breakfast  Club 
10:00  0  Garry    Moore— Light-hearted    variety 
©  &  00  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nursery 
10:30  ©  Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

©  &  00  Time  To  Live— Serial 
©  Nancy  Craig— For  women  only 
10:45  ©  Three  Steps  To  Heaven— Serial 
11:00  ©  Home — Arlene    Francis,   femcee 
11:30  ©  Susan  Adams— The  art  of  cookery 
12:00  ©  Valiant  Lady-Serial 

©  &  00  Betty    White— Good-time    show 
12:15   ©  &        Love   Of  Life-Serial 
12:30  ©  &        Search    For   Tomorrow— Serial 
©  Feather  Your  Nest— Bud  Collyer 
O  Morey  Amsterdam— 1,000,000  laffs 
12:45  0  (&_-_  at  2:30)   The  Guiding    Light 
1:00  ©  Portia    Faces   Life— Serial 
1:15  ©  The  Seeking  Heart— Serial 
1:30  ©  &  00  Welcome  Travelers—  Bartlett 
2:00  ©  &        Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show— Fun 
2:30   ©  Linkletter's  House  Party-Go,  man! 
©  Jinx   Falkenburg— Hen   party 
©  Journey  Through  Life— Real   stories 
(D  Liberace— Valentino  of  the  keyboard 
3:00  ©  &  00  Big    Payoff-Mink-lined    quiz 
©  Greatest  Gift— Serial 
0  Paul    Dixon    Show— Musicmimics 
0  Ted  Steele  Show— Man   with   music 
3:15  0  Golden   Windows— Serial 
3:30  0  Bob  Crosby  Show— M "sical  variety 

O   &        One  Man's  Family— Serial 
3:45  ©  &  00  Concerning    Miss   Marlowe 
4:00  0   &        Brighter   Day— Serial 

©  Hawkins   Falls— Rural   serial 
4:15  ©  &  00  Secret  Storm— Serial 

©  First  Love— Serial   Drama 
4:30  ©   On  Your  Account— Cash  quiz 

©  World  Of  Mr.  Sweeney— Chuckles 
6:30  (D  Liberace— Plays  pretty  piano 
7:00  O   Kukla,  Fran  &  Ollie     Good  kids  all 
7:30  0  Million  Dollar  Movies— First  run  on 

TV  of  films.  Repeat  show  at  10:00  P.M. 
7:45  ©  Perry    Como— Mon.,    Wed.,    Fri.;    Jo 
Stafford— Tues.;   Jane   Froman— Thurs. 
©  &  00  News  Caravan— Swayze 


Monday  P.M. 


8:00  0  &  3  Burns  &  Allen-Coupled  fun 

©  Sid  Caesar  Show— Masterful  fun; 
Producer's  Showcase— 90-minute  spectac- 
ulars, Dec.  13  &  Jan.  10. 

©  Come  Closer— Zany  quiz 
8:30  0  Talent    Scouts-Godfrey's    showcase 
0  &        Voice    Of    Firestone-Concerts 


9:00  0  &  00  I  Love  Lucy— You'll  have  a  Ball 

©  The  Medic — Documentaries 
9:30  0   &  0  December   Bride— Delightful 
©  Robert   Montgomery   Presents 
10:00  ©  &  [\|  Studio   One— Superb   dramas 
©  Boxing   From  Eastern  Parkway 
10:30  ©  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  stars 


Tuesday 


7:30  ©   Waterfront— Preston    Foster    stars 
©  Cavalcade   Of   America— Dramas 

8:00  ©  Red  Skelton  Revue— Whopping 

©&  00  Milton    Berle-Dec.    14    &    28; 

Martha  Raye,  Dec.  21;  Bob  Hope,  Jan.  4. 

©  Life  Is  Worth  Living— Bishop  Sheen 

8:30  ©  Halls  Of  Ivy— The  Ronald   Colmans 
0  The   Goldbergs— Merrily  Molly 
©  20  Questions-Animal,  vegetable,  etc. 

9:00  ©  Meet  Millie— Bewildering   blonde 
©   Fireside  Theater— Dramas 
©  Studio   57— Varieties   of  drama 
©  Make  Room  For  Daddy— Thomas 
0  Inner  Sanctum— Spine-chillers 

9:30  ©  &  00  Danger— First-rate  thrillers 
©  Circle  Theater— Dramas 
©  U.  S.  Steel  Theater— Elgin  Theater 
Top,  hour-long  dramas  alternate  weekly. 
10:00  0  Life  With  Father— Comedy  series 

©  &  00  Truth  Or  Consequences— Fun! 
10:30  ©  See  It  Now— Ed  Murrow's  essay 

©  It's  A  Great  Life— Great  comedy 
©  Stop  The  Music— Bert  Parks,  emcee 


Wednesday 


7:30  ©  Disneyland— Walt     Disney,     host    to 

hour-long   cartoon   and/or   live-action   films. 
8:00  ©  &  00  Godfrey  Show— Hour  variety 

©  I  Married  Joan— Domestic  ding-dong 
8:30  ©   (&  |>J  at  9:30)  My  Little  Margie 

©  Stu   Erwin— Rollicking   comedy 
9:00  ©  &  00  Strike    It   Rich-Warren    Hull 

©  Kraft   Theater— Excellent   dramas 

©  Chicago  Symphony-Reiner  conducts 

©  Masquerade   Party— Panel    panic 
9:30  ©  I've   Got  A  Secret— More  of  Moore 

0  Colonel   March— Whodunits 
10:00  ©  &  00  Blue    Ribbon   Boxing 

©  This   Is  Your  Life— Ralph   Edwards 
10:30  ©  Douglas   Fairbanks   Presents 

©  Down  You  Go— Sophisticated  quiz 


Thursday 


8:00  ©  Meet   Mr.   McNulty-Ray   Milland 

©   &  00  You    Bet    Your    Life— Grouchc 

§They    Stand    Accused— Courtroom 
The   Mail   Story— Adult   post  office 
8:30  0  Climax!— Terrific    mystery    fare; 
Dec.  23,  Shower  Of  Stars 

©  &  |  k]  Justice— Police    dramas 
©  T-Men    In   Action— Melodrama 


9:00  ©  Dragnet— Jack  Webb  stars 

©  What's  The  Story?— Panel  quiz 
9:30  0  Four   Star   Playhouse— Dramas 
©  &  00  Ford   Theater 
©  Kraft    Theater— Full-hour    dramas 
10:00  0  Public  Defender-Reed   Hadley  stars 

©  Lux  Video  Theater— Full-hour 
10:30  0  Name  That  Tune— Bill  Cullen 

©   Racket  Squad— Reed  Hadley  again 


Friday 


8:00  ©  &  00  Mama— Heart-warming    comedy 
©   Secret  File,  U.S.A.— Robert  Alda 
©  Ozzie  &  Harriet-Wonderful  comedy 

8:30  ©  Topper— Hocus-pocus  comedy  series 
©  Life  Of  Riley— Comedy  series 
©  Ray  Bolger  Show— Zestful  comedy 

9:00  ©  Playhouse  Of  Stars-Dramas 

©  &  00  Big    Story— Compelling    dramas 
©  The  Stranger— High-tension   stories 
©  Dollar   A  Second— Jan   Murray 

9:30  ©  Our  Miss  Brooks-Ardent  Eve  Arden 
0  &  00  Dear    Phoebe— Peter    Lawford 
©  The  Vise— English-type  suspense 
10:00  ©  The   Line-Up- Warner  Anderson 
©  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
10:30  ©  Person  To  Person-Ed  Murrow 

©  Mr.    District  Attorney— David   Brian 
(D  Florian   Zabach— Fiddle   virtuoso 


Saturday 


6:00  ©  Abbott  &  Costello— Comedy  duo 
7:30  ©  Beat  The  Clock-Stunts  for  prizes 
©  Ethel   &  Albert— Domestic  comedy 
©  Annie  Oakley— Gail  Davis 
8:00  ©  Jackie  Gleason  Show— Laugh  revue 

©  &  00  Mickey  Rooney— Comedy 
8:30  ©  &  00  Imogene   Coca   Show; 

Dec.    18,  90-minute  Spectacular 
9:30  ©  My  Favorite   Husband-First-rate 
©  Durante— O'Connor  Shows 
Jimmy,  Dec.  11,  25;  Donald,  Dec.  18,  Jan.  1. 
10:00  ©  That's  My  Boy— Comedy  series 

©  George  Gobel— A  very  funny  man 
©  Stork   Club— Sherm   interviews   celebs 
10:30  ©  Willy— June  Havoc  in  comedy 
©  Your  Hit  Parade— Top  tunes 


Sunday 


5:00  ©  Omnibus— 90  minutes  of  surprises 

©  Hall  Of  Fame  Theater 
5:30  ©  We  Love  Dogs— Excellent  pet  show 
6:00  ©  Meet  The  Press—  Newsmaking  panel 

©  Corliss  Archer— Ann   Baker  stars 
6:30  ©  You    Are    There— History,    documen- 
tary-style 
7:00  ©  Lassie— Hot   diggety-dog   adventures 
©  &  00  People  Are  Funny— Linkletter 
7:30  ©  &  00  Jack    Benny— alternating   with 
Private  Secretary,  Ann  Sothern,  comedy 

©  Mr.    Peepers— Wally    Cox    for    laffs; 
Jan.  2,  7:30-9:00— Spectacular 

©  Pepsi-Cola  Playhouse-Polly  Bergen 

8:00  ©  &  00  Toast    Of    The    Town-Sullivan 

©  Colgate  Comedy  Hour— Top  jesters 

9:00  ©  G-E    Theater— Ronald    Reagan,    host; 

Dec.  19,  Fred  Waring  Show 

©  &  00  TV  Playhouse— Hour  dramas 
©  Rocky   King,   Detective 
9:30  ©  Honestly,  Celeste!— Comedy 
©  Life  Begins  At  80— Lively  talk 
©  Soldier  Parade— Arlene  Francis 
10:00  ©  Father  Knows   Best— Robert  Young 

©  &  00  Loretta  Young   Show— Dramas 

10:30  ©  &  00  What's    My    Line?     Job    game 

©  Victory  At  Sea-Superb  documentary 

1 1 :00  ©  Tales   Of    Tomorrow— Science-fiction 


(Continued  from  page  59) 
very  happy-go-lucky,  Grant  remembers." 

Grant's  stage  career  began  at  the  age 
of  five,  when  he  made  a  Valentino  turban, 
climbed  on  his  toy  wagon  and  did  tricks 
to  entice  grownups  to  his  lemonade  stand. 
He  went  on  to  further  triumphs  in  church 
productions  and,  by  the  time  he  was  six- 
teen, Grant  was  a  matinee  idol.  In  his 
junior  and  senior  years  in  high  school,  he 
won  the  Orange  County  cup  for  being  the 
best  high  school  actor. 

"Oh,  I  was  conceited,"  he  recalls.  "It 
was  sickening." 

The  girls  clustered  around  him  but  he 
dated  mostly  tomboys. 

"It  was  a  matter  of  love  me,  love  my  hot- 
rod," he  explains. 

A  date  had  to  be  both  dressed  and 
ready  for  manual  labor.  More  often  than 
not,  she  was  called  on  to  get  out  and  push 
when  the  engine  stalled. 

"With  a  high -compression  engine,  a  nor- 
mal battery  wouldn't  always  kick  over  the 
motor  and  so  a  girl  wasn't  just  a  date  but 
a  convenience,  too.  Anyway,  it  wasn't 
for  the  kind  of  girl  who  likes  to  keep  her 
hands   clean." 

Grant  was  graduated  from  high  school 
into  the  Navy  in  1942.  He  served  as  a 
meteorologist  during  the  war  and  put  in  a 
long  hitch  in  the  Aleutians.  He  got  out 
of  the  service  in  1946  and  went  to  work  as 
a  photographer's  assistant  in  Long  Beach, 
California.  He  had  seemingly  given  up 
any  idea  of  being  an  actor,  until  the  local 
paper  gave  notice  that  a  theater  group  was 
auditioning  for  a  leading  man.  Grant 
took  the  audition,  won  the  role  and,  from 
mid-1946  until  fall  of  1947,  did  twenty-four 
plays  with  five  little-theater  groups. 

He  had  to  give  lip  his  job  with  the  pho- 
tographer because  the  hours  interfered 
with  his  acting  assignments.  In  order  to 
make  a  living  while  he  acted  at  night, 
Grant  worked  as  a  haberdashery  sales- 
man, as  a  construction  lineman  with  the 
telephone  company,  and  raced  midget  and 
three-quarter-size  cars. 

In  1947,  he  went  East  to  study  dramatics. 
He  first  enrolled  in  Betty  Cashman's  class- 
es at  Carnegie  Hall  in  New  York,  then 
went  to  the  drama  school  at  Carnegie  Tech 
in  Pittsburgh,  quit  after  his  freshman  year 
and  came  back  to  New  York.  He  tried  out 
for  summer  stock  and,  successfully  and 
successively,  appeared  as  Eben  in  "Desire 
under  the  Elms,"  as  Biff  in  "Death  of  a 
Salesman,"  then  toured  with  Edward  Ar- 
nold in  "Apple  of  His  Eye."  He  was  play- 
ing in  the  Albany  Playhouse,  in  the  New 
York   state   capital,  when   he   met   Mary. 

And  where  had  Mary  been  all  these 
years?  Well,  during  the  time  she  was 
"just  Mary,"  she  had  lived  in  a  dozen  dif- 
ferent cities  in  Northeastern  states  where 
her  father  preached.  She  had  grown  to 
be  a  very  pretty,  five-foot-two  brunette 
and  she  was  blessed  with  a  beautiful  con- 
tralto voice  which  was  always  in  demand. 
In  1946,  she  joined  Phil  Spitalny's  orches- 
tra as  "Maxine  IV." 

"Maybe  the  fourth,"  she  says.  "I  never 
found  out  for  certain  whether  I  was  the 
third  or  fourth  singer  to  be  'Maxine.' " 

She  sang  with  Spitalny  for  three  and  a 
half  years.  She  went  to  Albany  to  visit 
friends  and  sang  at  a  party.  One  of  the 
guests  was  the  head  of  the  Albany  Play- 
house. He  asked  Mary — alias  Maxine — if 
she  would  star  in  a  production  of  Gersh- 
win's "Of  Thee  I  Sing."    She  agreed. 

"I  had  seen  Grant  in  a  play,"  she  re- 
members, "but  I  didn't  get  any  message." 

And  then  Grant  was  working  with  her 
in  the  production  of  the  musical  but,  for 
the  first  few  days,  they  continued  to  oper- 
ate on  different  frequencies. 

"We  just  didn't  seem  to  have  the  least 
attraction  for   each  other,"   Grant  recalls. 
(Continued  on  next  page) 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR 

EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  advertising  rales,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart, 

9  Sooth  Clinton  Street,  Chicago   6  (Jan.-Wom.)   5 

MONEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

NURSING  SCHOOLS 

MAKE  EXTRA  DOLLARS  working  on  advertising  mailings 
Spare  Time — at  home.  Send  name,  address:  Global  Mailers, 
Dept.  768-A,  1813  South  Clinton,  Chicago  16. 
60%PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Sam- 
ples, details.  Studio  Girl — Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif.,  Dept. 

GIRLS-WOMEN.  PRACTICAL  Nurses  needed.  Learn  profit- 
able career  at  home  easily.  Many  earn  while  learning.  High 
school  not  required.  Free  booklet.  Wayne  School,  2525 
Sheffield,  Dept.  AW-17,  Chicago  14. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

P-15b. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  circulars  for  adver- 
tisers. Complete  instructions — 25c.  Siwaslian,  4317-F  Gleane, 

Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-9,  Chicago 
32,  III. 

Elmhurst  73,  N.  Y. 

OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

EARN  MONEY  AT  Home  mailing  advertising  for  business- 
men. Instructions  $1  Refundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  9, 
New  York. 

$200.00  OR  MORE  paid  by  Advertisers  for  Children's  Pic- 
tures for  Calendars,  Magazines  (all  ages).  Wonderful  oppor- 
tunity for  Your  Child.  Rush  one  small  picture  for  approval. 

$25  WEEKLY  POSSIBLE,  spare  time,  at  home,  preparing 
mail  for  advertisers.  Te-Co,  Box  946,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 
FREE    BOOK    "505    Odd,    Successful    Businesses."    Work 
Home!  Expect  something  Odd!  Pacific  T-3,  Oceanside,  Calif. 
EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 
Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

Returned  30  days.  Print  child's,  parent's  name  and  address  on 
back.  Spotlite,  5880-P2  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood,  Calif. 
SAVE!  BUY  WHOLESALE.  Tremendous  savings  for  you, 
family,  friends.  Nationally  known  gifts,  merchandise,  hosiery, 
,  lingerie,  dresses,  jewelry,  sheets,  spreads,  robes,  watches, 
razors,  etc.  Picture  catalog  25c.  Send  Todayl  Sibert's,  Dept. 
Y,  Chattanooga  4,  Tenn. 

EXTRA  MONEY  WEARING  Famous  French  Perfume.  Dis- 
tribute samples  to  friends.  Samples  free.  Postcard  will  do. 
Lifset,  Box  22G,  Schenectady  1,  N.  Y. 

PROFITABLE  HOMEWORK.  IMMEDIATE  Earnings. 
Everything  furnished.  Eastern,  Box  142W,  Dorchester  24, 
Mass. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  folders  to  New 
Mothers.  Enclose  stamped  addressed  envelope.  Write  Allen 
Co.,  Warsaw,  Indiana. 

COMPILE  MAILING  LISTS,  typewriter,  longhand.  Unusual 
opportunity.  Particulars,  list  national  markets,  free!  Economy 
Publishers,  Rowley,  Mass. 

PEARL   FINISHING.    BEAUTIFUL   pastel   colors.   Bulletin 
Free.  Pearlite,  Box  73136,  Los  Angeles  3. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORK!  IMMEDIATE  Commissions! 
Everything  Furnished  I  Hirsch's,  1301-C  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 
SEND  OUT  POSTCARDS.  Cash  daily.  Bicorp,  143  Belmont, 
Belmont,  Mass. 

EARN  MONEY  AT  Home!  Must  Have  good  Handwriting. 
Write  for  Details.  Atlas,  Box  188-A,  Melrose,  Mass. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

ADD  TO  FAMILY  income.  Thousands  now  earn  $15-$25 
daily  in  spare  time  demonstrating  household  plastics  and  toys. 
Your  choice  from  800  items,  many  exclusives.  No  canvassing, 
No  experience  necessary.  Halliday,  Dept.  P,  17  Pennington 
Ave.,  Passaic,  N.  J. 

WOMEN  WITH  SPARE  Time,  here's  a  chance  for  Extra 
Money.  Take  orders  for  my  food  and  household  products,  etc., 
from  Old  Virginia.  I'll  send  Products  on  Free  Trial.  Write 
today.  Blair,  Dept.  185NA,  Lynchburg,  Va. 

FASCINATING  SPARE  TIME  piece  work!  No  selling!  We 
pay  you!  Truart,  Box  438,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 
Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling  che- 
nille monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.  Y. 

WHOLESALE!    8,000    NATIONALLY    Famous    Products. 
30-80%    Discounts!    Large    Catalog.    Sensational    Business 
Plans  Included.  Consolidated  Distributors,  21-28  Lafayette, 
Paterson  15,  New  Jersey. 
STRANGE    "DRY"    WINDOW    Cleaner.    Sells    like   wild. 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  mailing  Advertising  Literature. 
Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 
SEND  OUT  POSTCARDS.  Cash  daily.  Bicorp,  143  Belmont, 
Belmont,  Mass. 

MEDICAL 

Replaces  messy  rags,  liquids.  Simply  glide  over  glass.  Samples 
sent  on  trial.  Kristee  144,  Akron,  Ohio. 

FREE  BOOK — PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  &  Minor 

SALESMEN  WANTED 

Hospital.  Suite  C-113,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 
AVIATION 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics — nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality. 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free.  Hoover, 
Dept.  J-119,  New  York  11,  N.  Y. 

AIRLINES  HOSTESS— 18-30  Wanted.  Send  $1.00  full  infor- 
mation. McConnell  Hostess  School,  1030  Nicollet,  Minne- 
apolis, Minn. 

PERSONAL 

WORK  AT  HOME 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men 
and  women.  Easy,  Quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  en- 
dorsers. Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co.,  323 
Securities  Bldg.,  Dept.  A-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

$30.00  WEEKLY   MAKING    Roses.   Easy.  Write,  Studio 
Company,  Greenville  7,  Penna. 

FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Discovery!  Free 
Trial  Offer.  Write  Pixacol,  Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  UP  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  Free  Sam- 
ples and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,   Dept.  P-15, 
Glendale,  Calif. 

CONTESTS 

SENSATIONAL  NEW  CONTEST!  Valuable  prizes!  Every- 
body wins!  Box  6751A,  Chicago  80. 

HOME  WORKERS  WANTED!  Self  employment  home  jobs 

ADDITIONAL  INCOME 

listed.  $20-$50  per  week  possible.  No  experience  necessary. 
Rush  Reply  for  details.  Maxwell,  Dept.  B,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 
EARN  EXTRA  MONEY— Work  3-5  hrs.  at  home  daily.  Up  to 

EARN  READY  CASH  doing  mailing  work.  No  experience 
needed.  F.  Wilson  Business  Service,  7372  Melrose, 
Los  Angeles  46,  Calif. 

$40  weekly  possible.  Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B.  Dunbar 
Co.,  Dept.  G1,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 
display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept.  N-1359,  Cincinnati 
25,  Ohio. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

WOMEN  SEW  READY-Cut  Tiesl  No  selling.  Free  Details. 
Fashion  Ties,  P.  O.  Box  2066,  Dept.  AC,  West  Inglewood  4, 
California. 

MONEY,  TYPING-SEWING!  Details  Free!  Edwards, 
3912-WG  12th,  Des  Moines  13,  Iowa. 

HOME  WORKERS.   MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
pay.  Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Dept. 
75,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 

BUY  WHOLESALE— 25,000  items— Catalog  25c.  Matthews, 
1472-K4  Broadway,  New  York  City  36. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.  Experience  unnecessary.  Crown  Mfg.,  7150-B  Beverly 
Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  and  Tiny-Mocs  at  home  for  stores. 
Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

WOMEN.  SEW  READY-Cut  Wrap-A-Round  spare  time- 
profitable.  Dept.  D,  Hollywood  Mfg.  Co.,  Hollywood  46,  Calif 
PART  TIME.  SELL  non-allergic  Cosmetics.  Exclusive  line, 

ASSEMBLE  PRE-CUT  Ties  for  our  Markets.  Everything 
Furnished.  Wilson  Ties,  Stillwater,  Minnesota. 

INSTRUCTION 

Free  details.  Mme.  Rubinoff,  St.  Louis  12,  Mo. 

GET  U.  S.  GOV'T  Job!  Men-Women,  18-55.  Start  high  as 

MUSIC  &  MUSICAL  INSTRUMENTS 

$80.00  week.  Qualify  Now!  23,000  jobs  open.  Experience  often 
unnecessary.  Get  Free  36-page  book  showing  jobs,  salaries, 
requirements,  sample  tests.  Write:  Franklin  Institute,  Dept. 
X-37,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

ELECTRIC  GUITARS,  AMPLIFIERS,  etc.  Wholesale.  Free 
catalog.  Carvins,  Baldwin  Park,  Calif. 

HELP  WANTED 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

FOREIGN-U.  S.  JOBS — So.  America,  Alaska,  Spain.  Fare 
Paid.  1000*8  U.  S.  Jobs  to  $18,000.  Trades,  Offices,  Factories. 
Stamped  self-addressed  env.  brings  reply.  Job  Opportunities, 

with  58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information  booklet  free.  American  School,  Dept.  X174, 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

Waseca  11J,  Minn. 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes,  study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  Catalog  HCH-22,  Wayne 
School,  2527  N.  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  20c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-BF,  Whitestone  57,  N.  Y 

PHYSICAL  THERAPY  PAYS  Big.  Learn  at  Home.  Free  Cat- 
alog. National  Institute,  Desk  6,  4868M  Sheridan,  Chicago  40. 

THIS  AD  IS 
WORTH  MONEY! 

Let  us  show  you  how  to  make  big  money 
in  your  spare  time  by  helping  us  take 
orders  for  magazine  subscriptions.  Write 
today  for  FREE  money-making  informa- 
tion: TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  205  E. 
42nd  St.,  New  York   17,  N.  Y. 


Tabciri 


MILES  LABORATORIES,  INC.,  Elkhart,  Indiana 


They  were  friendly,  of  course,  and  even 
had  lunch  together  on  one  occasion.  Then 
a  few  days  after  "Of  Thee  I  Sing"  had 
opened,  Mary  began  an  engagement  at  the 
Empire  Room,  where  she  sang  after  the 
Playhouse  performance.  She  invited  the 
cast  at  the  Playhouse  to  be  her  guests  on 
opening  night  at  the  Empire  Room.  She 
thought  she  had  invited  everyone,  but 
Grant  had  been  overlooked  and  he  felt 
slighted. 

''So  what  does  she  do,"  Grant  says,  "but 
invite  me  to  be  her  guest  a  few  nights 
later,  and  I  accepted.  It  turned  out  to  be 
nicer  that  way." 

In  between  her  singing  chores,  they 
danced.  When  the  Empire  Room  closed, 
Grant  asked  Mary  if  she  wouldn't  like  to 
walk  a  bit.  There  was  a  small  blizzard 
raging  in  the  city  and  it  was  after  two  in 
the  morning,  but  Mary  went  up  to  her 
room,  put  on  slacks  and  boots  and  got 
bundled  up,  and  they  walked  the  streets 
and  talked  and  talked. 

"We  covered  everything  from  sex  to  re- 
ligion," Mary  says.  "We  didn't  mind  the 
snow,  but  I  think  our  tongues  were  frost- 
bitten." 

After  that  first  date,  they  were  prac- 
tically inseparable. 

"We  talked  a  lot  about  marriage,  other 
people's  marriages,"  Grant  says.  "Neither 
one  of  us  had  the  sense  to  propose." 

It  was  on  New  Year's  Eve  that  Grant 
realized  how  much  he  was  in  love.  Mary 
was  singing  in  the  Empire  Room  at  mid- 
night, against  her  better  judgment.  The 
crowd  was  noisy  and  gay,  but  the  band- 
leader insisted  they  would  quiet  down  if 
she   sang  "The  Lord's  Prayer." 

Grant  watched  the  experiment  from  a 
table  and  began  to  writhe  as  she  sang 
"The  Lord's  Prayer"  into  the  unceasing 
din.  He  turned  to  a  friend  and  said, 
"That's  the  last  time  she's  ever  going  to 
sing  for  a  New  Year's  Eve  crowd." 

Then  he  did  a  double-take,  realized  what 
he  had  said  and  knew  he  would  ask  Mary 
to  marry  him.  Six  months  later — June 
13,  1951 — the  ceremony  was  performed  in 
New  York.  The  date  had  been  decided  by 
the  arrival  of  a  check. 

"I  got  two  hundred  dollars  for  some 
television  work.  That  paid  the  first 
month's  rent  on  an  apartment,  bought 
food,  and  a  gallon  of  paint  for  the  walls, 
and  we  were  in  business,"  Grant  says.  "It 
may  sound  impulsive  but,  of  course,  it 
wasn't.  We  both  knew  show  business 
and  knew  there  would  be  plenty  of  times 
when  we'd  be  broke,  so  it  was  just  as 
logical   to   marry   when  we  had   nothing." 

They  sat  on  boxes.  They  couldn't  af- 
ford drapes  so  they  painted  the  wall  on 
the  window  side  charcoal,  opened  up  the 
old-fashioned  shutters  and  painstakingly 
painted  the  slats  alternately  yellow  and 
white. 


"Who  says  it  was  bad?"  Grant  demands. 
"It  was  wonderful." 

And,  when  their  first  anniversary  rolled 
around,  they  were  still  on  their  honey- 
moon— and  broke  again.  They  had  only 
an  unemployment  check  for  about  thirty 
dollars. 

"We  decided  to  blow  the  entire  check 
on  our  anniversary,"  Mary  recalls.  "To 
us  our  marriage  was  worth  it." 

They  dolled  up.  Mary  got  into  one  of 
her  $300  "Maxine  IV"  evening  gowns  and 
they  made  a  beautiful  couple.  They  took 
a  cab  to  the  Waldorf-Astoria  and  went  up 
to  the  fancy  Starlight  Roof. 

"We  decided  to  spend  every  cent  of  our 
cash,"  she  says,  "and  pay  the  cab  driver 
on  our  return  with  a  single  dollar  bill  I'd 
had  tucked  away  in  a  drawer." 

They  calculated  carefully  but  forgot 
about   entertainment  tax. 

"So  we  had  to  give  our  waiter  an  I.O.U.," 
Grant  recalls. 

They  didn't  starve,  for  Mary's  credit 
with  the  grocer  was  good  and  within  a 
couple  of  weeks  Grant  began  his  lengthy 
interplanetary  tour  with  Captain  Video. 
Of  course,  by  that  time  their  apartment 
was  furnished.  It  was  all  over  too  soon 
for  Mary,  however,  because  designing  and 
decorating  a  room  or  a  house  has  always 
been  a  particular  pleasure  for  her. 

"No  one  has  to  ask  me,"  she  says.  "If 
I  overhear  someone  on  a  bus  say  they'd 
like  a  home  in  New  Jersey  for  their  fam- 
ily, I  mentally  create  a  family  and  start 
planning  a  house." 

She  has  decorated  several  apartments 
and  studios  for  friends. 

The  Sullivans'  own  apartment  takes  ad- 
vantage of  the  high  ceiling  and  immensity 
of  a  brownstone  apartment.  The  one  wall 
is  still  charcoal,  without  drapes,  but  the 
shutters  are  now  solid  charcoal,  too.  The 
other  walls  are  light,  and  the  corner  where 
they  dine  has  a  wall  patterned  with  yel- 
low triangles. 

"People  think  I  painted  each  triangle 
with  a  brush  and  that  it  took  days,"  Mary 
confides,  "but,  actually,  I  cut  one  of  those 
dishwashing  sponges  into  a  triangular 
shape  and  just  pressed  the  paint  on." 

The  floor  is  covered  with  a  huge  white 
Australian  string  carpet.  The  television 
set  is  in  a  corner  and  the  cabinet  that 
holds  it  has  an  interesting  design  which 
Mary  made  with  twenty-five  cents'  worth 
of  wood  matches  and  glue.  Above  the 
receiver  is  a  painting. 

"It's  my  first  and  only  painting,"  Mary 
tells  you.  "I  call  it  'Dust  Storm  over  El 
Paso.'  It  was  inspired  by  left-over  wall 
paint." 

And  it's  not  bad  for  left-over  wall 
paint. 

There  are  a  couple  of  iron  sling  chairs, 
a  built-in  corner  desk  that  stands  chest 
high,  with  a  couple  of  high  stools  finished 


Garry  Moore  and  the  winsome 
Poster  Girl  for   1955— 
Mary   Kosloski   of  Collierville, 
Tenn. — team   up  to  remind 
everyone  that  now  is  the  time 
to  join  the  March  of  Dimes. 


down  to  the  natural  grain.  But  probably 
the  most  used  fixtures  in  the  room  are  the 
candlesticks. 

"We  eat  by  candlelight  every  evening," 
Mary  says.  "Most  of  the  time,  we  light 
candles  for  breakfast.  Here  we  don't  com- 
plain about  the  electric  bills,  just  the  can- 
dle bills." 

They  don't  pretend  that  it's  usual  to 
light  candles  for  breakfast,  but  agree  that 
it   cheers  up  the  morning  for  them. 

"If  you  need  an  eccentricity,"  says 
Grant,  "that's  a  pretty  harmless  one." 

Lots  of  mornings,  Mary  admits,  she 
wishes  she  were  lighting  a  dynamite  fuse 
instead  of  a  candle. 

"For  getting  Grant  out  of  bed!"  she  says. 
"I  feel  like  an  engineer  taking  on  a  major 
job — like  moving  a  mountain." 

Once  at  the  breakfast  table,  however, 
Grant  is  fully  awake  and  alert. 

"I  have  to  be — to  keep  from  getting 
burned  by  the   candles." 

After  breakfast,  Grant  reads  his  lines 
for  the  day's  show,  checks  them  with  Mary 
and  then,  although  they  live  in  Manhattan, 
a  half-block  from  Riverside  Drive,  he 
leaves  for  the  studio  with  an  hour  more 
than  he  needs  for  the  trip. 

"You  see,  Grant  wasn't  being  romantic 
or  cute  when  he  took  me  for  a  wintry 
hike  on  our  first  date,"  Mary  explains. 
"Grant  likes  to  walk.  It's  one  of  his  fa- 
vorite  sports." 

Grant's  schedule  doesn't  permit  much 
walking  now,  with  his  current  assignment 
as  the  American  suitor  in  "Portrait  of  a 
Lady,"  the  Broadway  play  starring  Jeni- 
fer Jones.  But  he  likes  to  walk  to  work 
whenever  possible,  and  particularly  en- 
joys strolling  with  Mary  along  the  Hudson 
River. 

"The  river  is  beautiful  from  the  New 
York  side,"  Grant  explains,  "because 
you're  facing  California." 

Because  of  his  walking  habits,  Grant  has 
on  occasion  given  some  of  his  more  ardent 
teen-aged  fans  a  hard  time.  Some  of  the 
teen-aged  girls  will  follow  their  idols  all 
over  Manhattan,  so  a  besieged  actor  or 
singer  often  dives  into  a  cab  and  leaves  his 
fans  in  a  cloud  of  fumes.  Grant  Sullivan 
does  no  such  thing.  He  walks  them  to 
death.  Only  two  ever  survived  one  of  his 
hikes.  They  got  the  address  of  his  apart- 
ment, traced  his  unlisted  phone  number. 

"We  changed  the  number,"  Grant  says, 
"but  think  of  the  healthy  workout  they 
got." 

Grant  is  no  screwball  about  fans.  He 
loves  to  have  them  but,  when  a  lot  of  his 
admirers  wanted  to  organize  a  fan  club, 
Grant  and  Mary  wrote  to  each  of  them 
suggesting  that,  instead,  they  give  a  hand 
to  CARE. 

"We  seem  to  get  more  serious  by  the 
day,"  Grant  says.  "You  know,  I  can  al- 
most trace  our  complete  change  in  atti- 
tudes in  the  few  years  we've  been  mar- 
ried." 

"For  the  better,"  Mary  says."  "We're 
positive  now." 

"I  know  how  we  are  now,"  Grant  adds. 
"If  Mary  and  I  are  upset  with  someone, 
we  sit  around  and  talk  about  it — not  an- 
grily, but  asking  ourselves  what  was  the 
reason  for  it  and  how  would  we  behave  in 
the  situation.  We  try  to  understand  bad 
behavior  and  then  do  something  positive 
about    it." 

Grant  tells  you,  contrary  to  movie  plots, 
that  you  don't  get  along  in  the  acting  busi- 
ness by  cutting  throats  and  turning  bitter 
if  someone  beats  you  out  at  an  audition. 

"When  you're  in  a  tough  business,  it 
isn't  enough  to  try  hard.  You've  got  to 
be  able  to  take  it  with  a  smile." 

"You've  got  to  be  generous,"  Mary  says. 
"It's    the    Golden    Rule." 

"It  sure  helps,"  Grant  concludes,  on  a 
very   positive   note. 


DAYTIME 
DIARY 


All  programs  listed  are  heard  Monday  through  Friday;  consult  your 
local  paper  for  time  and  station. 


AUNT  JENNY  When  a  solid,  reputable 
Littleton  citizen,  devoted  to  his  wife,  his 
family  and  his  way  of  life,  abruptly  de- 
serted them  all,  town  gossips  were  quick 
to  come  up  with  the  usual  reasons.  But 
they  were  all  wrong,  as  Aunt  Jenny  re- 
vealed when,  in  one  of  her  recent  stories 
about  life  in  Littleton,  she  told  the  whole 
truth  about  the  startling,  unexpected  crisis 
that  almost  wrecked  one  of  her  home 
town's  happiest  marriages.    CBS  Radio. 

BACKSTAGE  WIFE  As  the  wife  of  fa- 
mous actor  Larry  Noble,  Mary  Noble  has 
frequently  had  to  defend  her  marriage 
against  the  onslaughts  of  irresponsible 
women  attracted  by  Larry's  fame  and 
charm.  But  actress  Elise  Shephard,  per- 
sistent and  vicious,  has  almost  succeeded 
where  so  many  others  had  failed.  Des- 
perate and  heartsick,  Mary  falls  easy  prey 
to  Victor  Stratton.  Will  she  learn  his  true 
plan  in  time  to  save  herself?    NBC  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  DAY  When  Sandra 
Talbot  came  to  New  Hope,  she  did  not 
expect  to  fall  really  in  love  with  Grayling 
Dennis.  Surprised  by  her  own  unexpected 
sincerity,  and  frightened  by  the  pursuit 
of  Bert  Ralston,  whom  she  knows  to  be 
dangerous,  Sandra  feels  she  must  forsake 
Grayling  and  the  new  life  that  had  once 
seemed  possible.  Will  Grayling's  worried 
family  be  forced  to  stand  by  helplessly  as 
this  becomes  his  excuse  to  start  drinking? 
CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

CONCERNING      MESS      MARLOWE 

Charming,  successful  actress  Maggie  Mar- 
lowe is  experienced  enough  to  know  when 
a  man  is  interested  in  her,  and  in  Jim 
Gavin's  case  she  finds  the  interest  very 
pleasant.  She  is  also  experienced  enough 
to  realize  that  young  Kit  Christy,  aspiring 
actress,  is  not  altogether  the  artless  in- 
genue she  appears.  Is  she  about  to  make 
the  mistake  of  underestimating  Kit  because 
she  believes  she  understands  her?  NBC-TV. 

FIRST  LOVE  It's  easy  enough  to  be 
happy  with  a  man  everyone  likes  and 
understands — a  man  who  is  easy  to  get 
along  with.  Laurie  did  not  choose  such  a 
man  when  she  fell  in  love  with  Zach.  He 
is  difficult  and  strong-minded  and  treads 
on  many  toes,  and  his  potential  for  achieve- 
ment is  as  great  as  his  ability  to  get  him- 
self misunderstood.  Laurie  will  need  more 
than  the  average  allotment  of  love  and 
faith.  Will  she  have  it?  NBC-TV. 

GOLDEN  WINDOWS  Love  always 
seems  terribly  simple  to  the  very  young 


— and  despite  her  long  engagement  to 
John,  Julie  had  never  been  in  love  before 
she  met  Tom  Anderson.  It  was  clear 
enough  that  she  couldn't  marry  John  after 
that.  But  what  is  less  and  less  clear  is 
just  what  the  future  holds — if  anything — 
for  her  and  Tom,  as  the  peculiar  circum- 
stances from  which  he  tried  to  escape  en- 
tangle him  once  more  and  also  threaten 
Julie.    NBC-TV. 

THE  GREATEST  GIFT  By  telling  the 
truth  as  she  knows  it  about  a  recent  near- 
fatal  accident,  Dr.  Eve  Allen  finds  herself 
unwillingly  drawn  into  town  politics  and 
a  tangled  emotional  situation  which  could 
certainly  wreck  her  medical  career  before 
it  gets  started.  How  will  she  handle  the 
disturbed  father  of  the  young  accident  vic- 
tim, balancing  his  desire  for  retribution 
against   her    own   loyalty?     NBC-TV. 

THE  GUIDING  LIGHT  Bertha  Bauer's 
campaign  to  revive  the  marriage  of  Kathy 
and  Dr.  Dick  Grant  acquires  several  assist- 
ants— her  own  husband  and  Dick's  father 
among  them.  Dick's  friend,  Dr.  Jim  Kelly, 
once  felt  the  same  way,  but  how  would 
he  feel  now  if  Kathy,  of  whom  he  has  be- 
come so  fond,  showed  new  interest  in  her 
ex-husband?  Is  Dick  too  involved  in  con- 
flict with  Dr.  Thomson  to  wonder  about 
his  personal  life?  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

HAWKINS  FALLS  A  busy  small-town 
doctor  has  enough  on  his  hands  without 
becoming  involved  in  politics,  but  Dr. 
Floyd  Corey  finds  that  in  taking  on  an 
alert,  active  wife  like  Lona  he  has  also 
taken  on  a  new  interest  in  every  phase  of 
life  in  Hawkins  Falls.  Is  Mitch  the  right 
candidate  for  mayor  merely  because  he 
happens  to  be  the  Coreys'  friend?  Or  has 
he  all  the  other  qualifications  that  Speck 
Bassett  lacks?    NBC-TV. 

HILLTOP  HOUSE  The  curious  person- 
ality of  Carl  Burnett,  her  husband's  part- 
ner, is  partially  explained  for  Julie  when 
she  realizes  he  despises  his  wife  and  re- 
fuses to  believe  little  Tony  is  his  son.  Will 
Carl's  unhappiness  have  a  lasting  effect  on 
the  lives  of  Julie  and  Reed — an  effect  not 
even  Julie  suspects?  What  is  Mildred  Bur- 
nett's real  goal,  and  can  Julie  keep  Tony 
from  being  hurt  by  it?     CBS  Radio. 

JUST  PLAIN  BILL  The  murder  of 
Thelma  Nelson  flings  Bill's  beloved  daugh- 
ter Nancy  into  the  greatest  crisis  of  her 
life.  Suspected  of  killing  Thelma,  she  finds 
a  defender  in  the  fascinating  lawyer  Peter 
Dyke   Hampton — a   defender   and   perhaps 


an  admirer,  as  her  husband  Kerry  angrily 
believes.  Unwilling  to  interfere  in  so  per- 
sonal a  matter,  Bill  finds  himself  forced 
to  make  peace  in  the  Donovan  family.  But 
what  are  Nancy's  true  feelings  toward 
Peter?     NBC    Radio. 

LORENZO  JONES  Belle's  long  heart- 
breaking fight  to  help  Lorenzo  regain  his 
memory  is  on  the  brink  of  success  as 
Phoebe  Larkins  overplays  her  hand  and 
arouses  Lorenzo's  suspicions  about  her 
own  claim  to  having  married  him.  Will 
gratitude  toward  Belle  finally  lead  Loren- 
zo to  realization  that  she  is  his  real  wife, 
and  to  the  recollection  of  their  happy  years 
together?  Or  will  Gail  Maddox  find  some 
way  to  prevent  this?    NBC  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Can  a  bride  ever  for- 
give her  husband  for  allowing  business 
to  break  up  their  honeymoon?  Vanessa 
might  be  able  to  if  she  did  not  suspect  that 
Paul's  sudden  return  to  his  home  town  had 
something  to  do  with  his  first  wife.  What 
will  she  do  when  she  discovers  what 
Judith  really  intends  to  do — and  how  much 
power  she  can  put  behind  the  effort?  Will 
the  vicious  Judith  get  unexpected  help 
from  Van's  sister   Meg?    CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  Did  Ma  ever  really  like 
and  trust  young  Laura,  the  girl  who  mar- 
ried Billy  Pierce?  If  she  did,  it  was  one  of 
the  very  few  mistakes  Ma  ever  made  in 
reading  human  nature,  and  she  made  it 
because  she  was  so  anxious  to  see  hap- 
piness ahead  for  the  son  of  her  dear  old 
friends,  the  Pierces.  Will  Laura  pull  off 
her  sordid,  ruthless  plan  to  get  Billy's 
money  and  ruin  his  life  as  well?  CBS 
Radio. 

ONE  MAN'S  FA3IILY  How  strongly 
can  a  father  lay  down  the  law  to  his  chil- 
dren in  this  day  and  age?  The  Barbour 
children  have  complained  for  years  that 
their  father  had  old-fashioned  notions 
about  being  head  of  the  family.  If  they 
had  followed  his  dictates,  Claudia  and 
Hazel  might  have  been  spared  their  recent 
romantic  mistakes.  But  if  they  had  been 
less  strictly  brought  up,  wouldn't  expe- 
rience have  kept  them  equally  safe? 
NBC-TV. 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  Eve  Barrett's  plans 
were  careful  and  intricate,  but  in  the  end    t 
she  didn't  completely  deceive  Lord  Henry,    y 
Her  effort  to  ruin  his  marriage  to  Sunday    R 
might  have  come  to  nothing  if  Eve  hadn't 
gotten     herself     murdered.      As     Sunday 
stands  in  dark  suspicion,  will  Eve  accom- 

65 


plish  in  death  what  she  could  not  do  in 
life — the  wreckage  of  the  once-happy 
Brinthrope  marriage?  Or  will  Henrv  real- 
ize the  truth?    CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  YOUNG'S  FAMILY  Gray- 
son's carefully-laid  plan  to  protect  his 
fraud  explodes  in  dreadful  tragedy  that 
brings  destruction  and  death — and  may 
bring  further  horror  upon  Carter  Trent, 
husband  of  Pepper's  sister  Peggy.  Already 
sufTering  from  nervous  strain,  Carter  is 
tricked  into  believing  himself  responsible 
for  the  oil  well  fire  and  its  tragic  after- 
math. Will  this  be  the  last  straw  for  his 
overburdened  mind?   NBC  Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  As  Perry  Mason  and 
his  associates  work  indefatigably  to  un- 
cover the  vital  clue  that  will  lead  to  the 
real  murderer  of  Gordy  Webber  and  thus 
save  Kate  Beekman,  Kate  realizes  she  is 
undergoing  the  greatest  crisis  of  her  life  in 
more  ways  than  one.  Can  a  girl  who 
stands  in  the  shadow  of  the  electric  chair 
find  time  to  fall  in  love?  Has  she  the  right 
— and  can  she  believe  in  it?  CBS  Radio. 

PORTiA  FACES  LIFE  Loyalty  to  the 
Bakers  has  forced  Portia  and  Walter  Man- 
ning to  a  crucial  decision  as  their  marriage 
falters  under  the  strain  imposed  by  Por- 
tia's legal  success.  Will  Walter's  shaken 
male  ego  undermine  their  family  security? 
Will  Portia's  son,  never  completely  sure 
of  his  stepfather's  strength  despite  their 
affection  for  one  another,  be  the  unwitting 
tool  of  his  power-hungry  grandmother? 
CBS-TV. 

THE   RIGHT   TO    UAPPIXESS     The 

many  months  of  difficult  maneuvering 
and  self-control  that  Carolyn  had  to 
exercise  while  her  husband,  Miles  Nelson, 
was  governor  are  behind  her  now,  but  the 
future  promises  little  relief  as  Miles  finds 
himself  unexpectedly  uneasy  in  his  return 
to  private  practice.  Does  he  really  belong 
in  prominent  public  life?  Will  his  efforts 
to  re-establish  himself  ruin  his  marriage? 
NBC  Radio. 

THE  ROAR  OF  LIFE  Sybil  Overton 
throws  her  misdirected  vitality  and  twisted 
resourcefulness  so  completely  into  her  war 
against  Jim  Brent's  happiness  that  Jim 
and  Jocelyn  are  almost  caught  off  guard 
by  the  force  of  the  attack.  Can  they  count 
for  any  help  on  her  brother  Hugh,  torn 
between  secret  knowledge  of  Sybil's  un- 
balanced mind  and  the  family  loyalty  he 
cannot  quite  give  up?     CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TREXT 

Helen's  assistant,  Loretta  Cole,  may  have 
been  an  apprentice  gown  designer,  but 
she  needed  no  instruction  in  female  stra- 
tegy. Her  persistence  has  gained  precisely 
the  goal  she  aimed  for — she  has  attracted 
Brett  Chapman's  serious  interest,  thus 
taking  from  Helen  the  attention  of  the 
only  man  who  might  have  taken  Gil  Whit- 
ney's place  in  Helen's  affections.  Can  Gil 
come  back  into  Helen's  life?  CBS  Radio 

R1tSE.\l .\RY    Young  Lonnie,  completely 

under  the  sinister  influence  of  Monica,  is 

increasingly    distressed    at    his    treachery 

toward    Rosemary    and    Bill    Roberts,    but 

cannot    throw    off    the    spell    of    Monica's 

attraction.     Not    even    Rosemary    suspects 

T     the  double   life   Lonnie   has   been   leading 

y     until    the    runaway    climax    of    Monica's 

„     plan  brings  Lonnie  to  his  senses — but  too 

late    to    draw    back    from    the    inevitable 

tragedy.   CBS   Radio. 

66 


SKA  It  Ml      FOR     TOMORROW     The 

death  of  Hazel  Tate,  which  should  have 
projected  Joanne  Barron  into  the  happy 
future  she  and  Arthur  Tate  prayed  for, 
instead  threatens  her  very  life,  as  she 
fights  to  defend  herself  against  the  charge 
of  murdering  Hazel.  What  will  this  crisis 
mean  to  Joanne,  to  the  Bergmans,  and 
most  of  all  to  little  Patti  Barron,  who  may 
once  again  fall  victim  to  the  selfish  love  of 
her  scheming  grandmother?   CBS-TV. 

THE  SECOXO  MRS.  BURTON  Happy 
as  Marcia  is  in  her  marriage  to  Lew 
Archer,  there  are  one  or  two  points  on 
which  they  do  not  see  eye  to  eye,  and  these 
generally  involve  Marcia's  family.  How 
will  she  feel  when  she  learns  that  it  was 
Lew's  money  that  pulled  her  brother  Stan's 
paper  out  of  the  red?  Lew  and  Stan 
understand  each  other  perfectly,  but  with 
Marcia,  Stan's  mother,  and  politics  to  in- 
terfere, there  could  be  some  serious  trou- 
ble.   CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Tragedy 
brought  Peter  Ames  and  Jane  Andrews 
together  when,  after  the  recent  death  of 
his  wife,  she  became  housekeeper  to  Peter 
and  his  three  children.  And  tragedy  of 
another  kind  may  part  them  again  as  Jane 
becomes  convinced  that  because  of  her 
past  there  can  be  no  future  for  her  and 
Peter,  though  they  have  fallen  in  love.  Is 
Jane  rightly  suspicious  of  the  sudden 
friendship  of  Peter's  sister-in-law?  CBS- 
TV. 

THE  SEEKIXG  HEART  Dr.  Robin 
McKay  is  drawn  more  deeply  than  she 
likes  into  the  increasingly  complicated  plot 
surrounding  young  Lorna  and  her  money. 
Will  Lawson  Ware  and  his  sister  Cynthia 
manage  to  discredit  Robin  in  their  effort 
to  get  control  of  Lorna's  estate?  Will  they 
accomplish  what  Robin  fears  even  more — 
the  wrecking  of  Dr.  John  Adams'  career? 
Or  will  Robin  find  a  way  to  use  wily  Orrin 
Vail  in  a  way  he  never  intended?  CBS-TV. 

STELLA  DALLAS  Her  daughter  Lau- 
rel's happiness  is  the  most  important  thing 
in  life  to  Stella  Dallas.  Now  Stella  fights 
desperately  to  preserve  it  against  two 
strong  adversaries.  Aristocratic  Mrs.  Gros- 
venor,  Laurel's  mother-in-law,  would  like 
her  son  Dick  to  divorce  a  girl  she  never 
considered  good  enough  for  him.  And  in- 
sane Ada  Dexter  wants  Laurel  for  her 
own  son.  How  can  Stella  defeat  their 
combined  strength?  NBC  Radio. 

THIS  IS  XORA  ORAKE  Wyn  Robin- 
son has  done  a  good  job  of  pulling  the 
wool  over  Fred  Molina's  eyes,  so  that  al- 
though he  knows  he  is  endangered  by  the 
Syndicate  he  does  not  realize  that  Wyn, 
whom  he  believes  to  be  his  friend,  is  the 
bait  in  the  Syndicate's  trap.  And  although 
Nora  has  reason  to  know  the  depth  of 
Fred's  love  for  her,  she  cannot  help  won- 
dering about  Wyn's  place  in  his  life.  Will 
she  find  out  too  late?  CBS  Radio. 

THREE  STEPS  TO  HEAVEN  Cap- 
tured and  caged,  and  on  the  edge  of  death, 
vicious  Vince  Bannister  nevertheless 
struck  a  shattering  blow  against  Mary 
Clare  and  Bill  Morgan,  who  had  been 
instrumental  in  putting  him  behind  bars. 
The  dreadful  explosion  that  wrecked 
River  Lane  has  brought  tragedy  to  the 
Morgans  and  their  friends.  Will  they  ever 
uncover  the  sinister  network  by  which 
Vince  managed  his  hideous  revenge? 
NBC-TV. 


A  TIME  TO  LIVE  Reporter  Kathy  By- 
ron goes  out  after  Paul  Cheney  for  more 
than  a  story,  when  Miles  Dow  is  bounced 
from  the  police  force  for  following  a 
framed  lead  which  Kathy,  victimized  by 
Cheney,  innocently  gave  him.  Is  Cheney 
too  well-organized  and  ingenious  for 
Kathy,  or  will  she  break  him  down?  And 
meanwhile,  how  does  Miles  stand  in  her 
private  life,  now  that  Chick  Buchanan's 
place  as  good  neighbor  is  so  subtly  chang- 
ing?   NBC-TV. 

YALIAXT  LADY  Emotional  problems 
beset  the  recently  widowed  Helen  Emer- 
son as  she  tries  to  convince  her  son  Mickey 
that  he  cannot  waste  his  life  searching  for 
a  girl  who  may  not  be  as  right  for  him  as 
he  believes.  She  is  also  worried  about  her 
headstrong  daughter,  Diane,  who  may — 
or  may  not — patch  up  her  marriage  to 
Hal  Soames.  Is  this  the  time  for  Helen 
herself  to  have  to  decide  what  pilot  Chris 
Kendall  really  means  to  her?   CBS-TV. 

WENDY  WARREN  AND  THE  NEWS 

Wendy's  absorbing  newspaper  career 
takes  second  place  in  her  thoughts  as  her 
husband's  turbulent  emotional  upset  snakes 
the  very  foundations  of  their  life  together. 
Will  Mark's  dependence  on  Magnus  turn 
out  to  have  been  the  decisive  tragedy  of 
his  long  struggle  for  adjustment  and  un- 
derstanding? Or  will  it  lead  to  the  peace 
Mark  was  once  so  certain  he  saw  ahead 
on  the  path  Magnus  promised  to  show 
him?    CBS  Radio. 

WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES  Joan  Davis 
finds  herself  tested  in  a  new  way  as  she 
comes  to  grips  with  the  unexpected  change 
in  her  life  that  has  been  forced  upon  her 
by  circumstances.  Will  Dr.  Davon  be  able 
to  guide  her  past  the  worst  dangers  she 
will  encounter,  or  will  her  association  with 
him  lead  her  into  a  situation  where  she 
must  make  a  decicion  she  never  expected 
to  have  to  make — a  decision  that  will  affect 
her  future?  ABC  Radio. 

THE  WOMAN  IN  MY  HOUSE    As  a 

family  grows,  the  elders  grow  in  wisdom 
— but  the  problems  also  multiply.  James 
and  Jessie  Carter  have  learned  that  merely 
raising  their  children  from  babyhood  to 
adulthood  doesn't  give  them  the  right  to 
sit  back  and  relax.  A  parent's  job  is  never 
done — not  even  when  the  oldest  child  is 
as  old  as  her  son  Jeff,  as  Jessie  learns  to 
her  surprise.  Will  Jeff,  self-sufficient  as  he 
is,  accept  help?  NBC  Radio. 

YOUNG  DR.  MALONE  Young  Jill  Ma- 
lone  looks  on  bitterly  and  resentfully  as 
her  father,  Dr.  Jerry  Malone,  plans  to 
marry  Tracy  Adams.  Determined  that  no 
other  woman  will  ever  take  her  dead 
mother's  place,  Jill  refuses  to  soften  toward 
Tracy,  who  is  oversensitive  and  uncertain 
enough  to  be  shaken  by  the  rejection  de- 
spite her  love  for  Jerry.  Is  happiness  to  be 
snatched  from  Jerry  Malone  once  more? 
CBS  Radio. 

YOUNG  WIDDER  DROWN  Ellen 
Brown  finds  herself  the  victim  of  a  death- 
bed promise  made  by  her  fiance,  Michael 
Forsythe,  to  his  mother,  as  Michael's 
brother  Gerald  comes  to  Simpsonville  and 
proceeds  to  behave  in  a  way  that  can  only 
bring  new  unhappiness  to  Ellen.  Why  did 
Michael  make  his  mother  the  promise 
that  prevents  him  from  doing  anything 
now  to  protect  Ellen?  Will  he  break  his 
word  to  save  her — or  will  he  find  another 
way?  NBC  Radio. 


Ted  Steele 


(Continued  from  page  41) 
New  England  background,  in  a  suburban 
community  near  Boston.  His  mother  is  one 
of  those  perfect  homemakers,  dedicated  to 
home  and  family.  Everything  revolved 
around  Ted's  father,  the  breadwinner  and 
the  family  head.  As  long  as  he  lived,  he 
made  all  the  decisions.  The  boys,  Ted  and 
his  brother,  were  satisfied  with  this  until 
they  got  out  on  their  own. 

My  background  was  quite  different. 
Down  in  Montgomery,  Alabama,  where  I 
come  from,  I  got  the  idea  that  women  al- 
ways ran  the  home  and  made  all  the  plans 
concerning  it — probably  because  my 
mother  was  widowed  when  I  was  three 
and  my  sister  only  six  months.  Mother  had 
been  the  "man"  of  our  family  as  far  back 
as  I  could  remember.  In  our  house,  if  the 
sink  got  stopped  up,  she  fixed  it.  If  the 
electric  iron  wouldn't  work,  she  repaired 
it.  She  knew  exactly  what  was  in  the  fam- 
ily budget  and  how  it  could  be  spent.  She 
ran  the  house,  supervised  our  studies,  our 
movie-going,  our  companions  and  all  our 
activities.  She  inspected  our  fingernails  and 
ears  and  told  us  what  we  could  do  and 
what  we  must  not  do. 

It  was  something  of  a  shock,  therefore,  to 
realize  after  our  marriage  that — while  Ted 
was  already  deferring  flatteringly  to  my 
business  judgment  (largely  because  of  my 
agency  background  of  good,  solid  experi- 
ence and  the  managerial  ability  he  seemed 
to  have  faith  in  from  the  outset) — he  ex- 
pected to  make  the  home  decisions,  cer- 
tainly the  major  ones  and  even  what  I 
considered  minor  ones.  It  seemed  like  a 
complete  switch  from  the  usual  husband - 
and-wife  arrangement,  although  I  have 
since  met  many  men  like  Ted  who  are 
literally  the  head  of  the  house — and  many 
wives  like  myself  who  are  satisfied  to  have 
it  that  way. 

While  our  girls  are  each  as  much  indi- 
viduals in  their  own  right  as  their  daddy 
and  myself,  they  adore  their  father  and 
have  the  greatest  respect  for  him.  Because 
he  has  always  wanted  the  best  for  the 
children — which  in  his  opinion  includes 
country  living — and  because  we  also  love 
the  country,  in  the  summer  of  1947  we 
bought  a  farm  near  the  little  town  of  New 
Hope,  in  Bucks  County,  Pennsylvania. 
Buying  that  farm  is  something  I  am  proud 
of  having  strongly  influenced,  even  though 
it  was  Ted,  of  course,  who  made  the  final 
decision.  We  had  been  staying  nearby  with 
some  friends,  temporarily,  and  Ted,  as  al- 
ways, was  haunting  the  cattle  auctions.  He 
couldn't  resist  buying  a  few  calves  and 
heifers,  even  though  he  had  to  board  them 
out,  and  he  was  trying  to  rent  the  barn  on 
our  farm  when  the  caretaker  suggested  he 
take  over  the  whole  place. 

Ted  laughed  off  the  idea,  not  feeling  at 
all  ready  financially  to  assume  the  pur- 
chase of  such  a  property,  but  he  made  the 
mistake  of  mentioning  it  to  me  jokingly, 
and  we  drove  over  just  to  look.  Or  so  we 
thought!  I  got  out  of  the  car  and  walked 
toward  the  door  of  the  fine  old  Pennsyl- 
vania Dutch  farmhouse  and  knew,  before 
I  went  in,  that  this  was  for  the  Steeles. 

"I  might  have  known  it,"  Ted  said  later. 
"I  might  have  known  you're  a  girl  who  al- 
ways believes  you  can  make  a  deal  for 
anything  you  think  is  important  to  us."  It 
was  important,  and  with  Ted's  help  I  did 
make  a  deal  that  was  satisfactory  to  every- 
one. And  one  of  the  first  things  I  did  after 
we  moved  in — with  one  lamp  and  some 
borrowed  beds — was  to  tack  up  my  favor- 
ite motto:  You  can  do  anything  you  want 
to  do. 

That's  how  we  started  Celebrity  Farms, 
100  acres  now,  with  400  more  which  Ted 
rents  for  growing  feed  and  other  crops. 
Stocked     with     100     head     of     pure-bred 


I  was  afraid  of  my  shadow 

...now  I  am  the  most  popular  woman  in  town 


Are  you  shy  .  .  .  timid  .  .  .  afraid  to 
meet  and  talk  with  people?  If  so,  here's 
good  news  for  you!  For  Elsa  Maxwell, 
the  famous  hostess  to  world  celebrities, 
has  written  a  book  packed  solid  with 
ways  to  develop  poise  and  self-confi- 
dence. 

This  wonderful  book  entitled,  Elsa 
Maxwell's  Etiquette  Book  contains  the 
answers  to  all  your  everyday  social 
problems.  By  following  the  suggestions 
given  in  this  book  you  know  exactly  how 
to  conduct  yourself  on  every  occasion. 
Once  you  are  completely  familiar  with 
the  rules  of  good  manners  you  immedi- 
ately lose  your  shyness — and  you  be- 
come your  true,  radiant  self. 

Win  New  Respect 

Win  new  esteem  and  respect  from  your 
friends — men  and  women  alike.  Take 
less  than  five  minutes  a  day.  Read  one 
chapter  in  this  helpful  etiquette  book  in 
your  spare  time.  In  a  very  short  period 
you  will  find  yourself  with  more  self- 
confidence  than  you  ever  dreamed  you 
would  have.  You  will  experience  the 
wonderful  feeling  of  being  looked  up  to 
and  admired.  Gone  will  be  all  your 
doubts  and  fears.  You  will  be  living  in 
a  new,  wonderful  world.  You  will  never 
fear  your  own  shadow  again! 

Go   Places — With   Good   Manners 

Good  manners  are  one  of  the  greatest 
personal  assets  you  can  possess.  Good 
jobs,  new  friends,  romance,  and  the 
chance  to  influence  people  can  be  won 
with  good  manners.  Ladies  and  gentle- 
men are  always  welcome  .  .  .  anywhere. 
And  the  most  encouraging  thing  about 
good  manners  is  that  anyone  can  possess 
them. 

A  Gay,   Entertaining   Book 

Elsa  Maxwell's  new  book  is  different 
from  the  usual  dry-as-dust  etiquette 
volume.  It's  gay!  It's  up-to-date!  It's 
just  chock-full  of  the  type  of  informa- 
tion  you   can  put  to   immediate   use.    It 


brings  you  a  thorough  social  education, 
that  will  enable  you  to  live  a  richer, 
happier  life. 

Here  in  clear,  straightforward  lan- 
guage are  the  answers  to  all  your  every- 
day etiquette  problems.  Here  you  find 
important  suggestions  on  good  manners 
in  restaurants — in  church — in  the  the- 
atre— on  the  street — and  when  you 
travel. 

In  this  book  Elsa  Maxwell  covers  every 
phase  of  engagements  and  weddings.  Here 
is  everything  you  need  to  know  about 
invitations,  gifts,  the  wedding  dress,  the 
attendants,  the  reception,  etc.  The  bride 
who  follows  the  suggestions  contained  in 
this  up-to-date  book  need  have  no  wed- 
ding fears.  She  will  be  radiant  in  the 
knowledge  that  her  wedding  is  correct 
in  every  detail. 

Only  $1.00 

The  price  of  this 
book  that  puts 
you  at  ease  no 
matter  where  you 
are  —  and  opens 
the  door  to 
achievement  and 
success — costs  on- 
ly $1.00.  And  we 
pay  the  postage! 
Take  advantage 
of  this  truly  re- 
markable bargain. 
Mail  coupon  be- 
low for  your  book 
—TODAY. 


BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE,  INC.,  Dept.  WG-155- 
205  E.  42nd  St.,   New  York    17,  N.  Y. 

;  Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  ELSA  MAX- 
!  WELL'S    ETIQUETTE    BOOK.    I    enclose  I 
|$1.00. 


Please    Print 


I  NAME 

I  STREET 

ICITY STATE. 


61 


Guernseys  that  are  my  husband's  greatest 
interest  outside  his  shows  and  his  family. 
The  girls  love  the  farm,  too,  as  their  father 
knew  they  would.  Sally,  eleven,  is  inclined 
to  be  chubby,  but  is  bursting  with  energy 
and  climbs  everything  in  sight,  plays 
hockey  and  football  and  baseball.  Sue, 
twelve,  doesn't  mind  when  we  call  her 
Suzy  Stringbean  because  she  knows  it's  a 
term  of  endearment  and  a  compliment  for 
her  lovely,  budding  figure,  so  tall  and  slim. 
Her  daddy  is  a  tall  man,  6'2",  and  Suzy  is 
very  like  him,  with  the  same  ash-blond 
hair  and  gray  eyes. 

In  spite  of  Sally's  love  of  outdoors  and 
action,  she  is  turning  into  a  fine  house- 
keeper and  cook — although  she  puts  her- 
self on  a  self-imposed  diet  of  no  "seconds," 
desserts  only  on  weekends,  one  Coke  a 
week,  and  a  salad  to  start  every  meal.  (We 
all  have  to  watch  our  weight,  except  Suzy, 
and  Sally  sets  us  a  good  example.) 

Sue  is  our  reader,  and  she  loves  to  sew, 
but  she,  too,  is  active  in  such  projects  as 
the  Girl  Scouts.  The  greatest  contrast  be- 
tween the  girls  is  in  the  way  they  keep 
their  room  and  their  personal  possessions. 
Sue  isn't  interested  in  detail  and  is  care- 
less about  putting  things  away.  Sally  is  im- 
maculate and  meticulous  about  everything. 
Since  they  share  a  bedroom  and  use  the 
same  dressing  table  and  the  same  bath,  you 
would  think  Sue  would  get  more  neat  or 
Sally  less  so,  but  it  hasn't  worked  out  that 
way — yet! 

Their  daddy  is  so  fastidious  and  neat 
that  it  has  taken  him  quite  a  while  to  un- 
derstand that  a  house  can't  be  kept  perfect 
if  you  have  children  and  pets — and  you 
want  everyone  to  be  happy  and  comfort- 
able. He  now  admits,  with  some  resigna- 
tion, that  there  will  always  be  pets  running 
around  the  place  and  that  children  can't 
always  remember  to  straighten  up  a  room 
after  they  have  been  playing  in  it.  We  have 
two  dogs  and  about  thirty  cats,  only  two 
of  whom  are  allowed  in  the  house — one  we 
call  Mama  and  one  the  children  named 
Studebaker.  One  of  the  dogs  is  George,  a 
female  cocker  spaniel  inappropriately 
named  by  Ted.  (George  was  a  gift  to  him 
on  a  television  show.  We  were  giving  a  dog 
away  to  a  viewer  every  week  and,  when 
this  puppy  was  brought  in,  she  made  a 
great  fuss  over  my  husband,  chewing  the 
carnation  in  his  lapel,  licking  his  ear  and 
his  hair.  Ted  fell  for  it,  of  course,  said, 
"Here  George,  you're  the  one  I  want  for 
myself."  The  donors  of  the  dogs  were  de- 
lighted to  have  the  puppy  choose  Ted, 
since  they  had  been  planning  to  offer  him 
one.  And  the  name  stuck.)  Ching,  my 
Pekingese,  was  shown  on  the  animal  seg- 
ment of  our  present  television  show — a 
segment  in  which  I  appear — and,  this  time, 
I  fell  in  love  with  the  cute  little  thing.  The 
children  misunderstood  his  name  and  call 
him  Sing,  but  both  dogs  answer  to  any  call 
— especially  if  they  think  food  is  involved. 

I  have  an  outdoor  aviary  with  about  200 
parakeets.  There  have  been  other  birds — 
a  dwarf  parrot  whose  chattering  kept  Ted 
from  ever  getting  a  nap  after  he  came  in 
from  working  on  the  farm,  and  some  love 
birds,  also  too  noisy,  so  I  had  to  give  them 
up.  I  must  say  that  Ted  has  been  a  very 
good  sport  about  my  birds,  especially  when 
I  let  a  few  of  them  fly  around  the  house. 
If  he  still  winces  at  times  at  the  confusion, 
he  does  a  good  job  of  hiding  it. 

He     certainly    did     wince — visibly     and 

audibly — when  I  started  to  chip  away  part 

of  our  dining  room  wall,  with  the  idea  then 

of  making  an  indoor  aviary.  That  room  is 

part  of  the  original  farmhouse,  which  dates 

T    back  to  the  late  seventeeth  century,  though 

V    other   wings  have  been  added  at  twenty- 

H    five-  or  thirty-five-year  intervals  and  the 

one  housing  Ted's  study  is  quite  modern, 

built  only   a   few  years  before  we  bought 

the  place. 

68 


I  had  told  Ted  I  was  sure  I  could  chip 
away  a  part  of  the  inside  wall  to  hollow 
out  a  niche  for  an  aviary.  He  seemed  satis- 
fied but  warned  me  to  take  it  easy.  I 
blithely  started  to  rip  out  old  wood  and 
plaster,  and  came  to  a  second  inside  wall — 
the  original  one,  I  was  sure.  When  Ted 
came  home  and  saw  how  far  along  I  was, 
he  just  about  blew  his  top.  I  didn't  blame 
him.  I  was  a  little  scared  myself  at  what  I 
was  doing,  but  I  kept  chipping  away  with 
a  screw  driver  and  hammer  and  finally  got 
down  to  what  I  suspected  was  the  original 
stone.  By  this  time,  I  was  convinced  I 
could  take  out  some  of  the  smaller  stones 
on  the  inside  of  the  thick  wall  and  at  last 
have  that  niche  I  so  much  wanted.  Ted 
looked  worried  all  over  again  at  this  point, 
but  he  began  to  tap  the  wall  and  decided  I 
might  be  right.  He  wasn't  completely  con- 
vinced, but  I  carried  him  along  on  my  en- 
thusiasm— knowing  perfectly  well  I  was  in 
for  it,  if  I  made  any  mistake.  (What  man 
would  ever  let  a  wife  hear  the  end  of  a 
thing  like  that!) 

The  result,  however,  was  beautiful.  I  got 
out  just  enough  of  the  crumbly  old  mortar 
and  the  smaller  stones  to  make  a  sort  of 
picture-window  effect — about  eight  feet  by 
five,  backed  by  the  old  wall — and  it  now 
frames  an  arrangement  of  plants,  because 
we  decided  the  birds  belonged  outside. 
During  the  holiday  season  we  fill  the  niche 
with  evergreens  and  holly  and  mistletoe. 

lhe  Christmas  holidays  are  very  special 
at  our  house,  anyhow.  For  the  first  time 
since  the  girls  have  been  old  enough  to 
appreciate  it,  Christmas  is  a  day  at  home 
for  us  this  year.  When  it  doesn't  fall  on  a 
Saturday  or  Sunday,  Ted  and  I  always 
have  to  work,  so  in  previous  years  we  have 
celebrated  on  the  Sunday  preceding 
Christmas  and  had  an  extra  celebration  on 
the  day  itself,  during  whatever  free  time 
we  could  manage.  Usually,  on  the  Sunday 
before,  we  have  opened  our  family  pres- 
ents only,  had  our  big  leisurely  breakfast, 
with  everybody  dropping  in  and  the  coffee 
pot  bubbling  constantly  and  the  orders  of 
ham  and  eggs  and  bacon  and  pancakes  and 
toast  and  jam  coming  along  constantly. 
Later  in  the  day  we  have  had  our  big 
turkey  dinner  with  all  the  trimmings,  just 
as  other  people  do  on  Christmas  day.  On 
the  25th — when  we  had  to  go  to  work  as 
usual — we  have  all  been  up  early  to  open 
the  rest  of  the  presents,  from  relatives  and 
friends,  to  have  breakfast  together,  and 
then  be  off  to  the  studio.  Rather  than  con- 
sidering all  this  a  drawback,  our  girls  have 
always  felt  especially  privileged  to  have 
two  Christmases,  instead  of  the  usual  one. 
Yet  it's  nice  for  the  family  to  be  at  home 
and  together  on  Christmas  and  New  Year's 
Day  this  year.  Ted's  mother  comes  for 
Christmas,  but  my  mother  has  a  plant 
nursery  in  Alabama  and  that's  her  busy 
time,  so  she  has  to  visit  later  in  the  year. 
We  have  a  big  tree,  and  the  children  also 
adore  the  small  one  set  up  for  the  dogs. 

If  you  have  gathered  that  we  have  a 
happy  household,  all  the  Steeles  would 
certainly  agree  with  you.  Ted  and  I  have 
our  differences,  as  most  couples  do.  But 
neither  of  us  likes  an  argument  which  gets 
out  of  bounds,  and  one  of  us  always  gives 
in  before  any  quarrel  gets  to  the  point 
where  things  are  said  that  will  hurt  and  go 
on  hurting.  Perhaps  this  is  the  result  of 
having  known,  always,  that  we  intended 
to  stick  together,  no  matter  what  might 
happen,  and  therefore  trying  to  understand 
the  other's  point  of  view. 

We  are  really  inter-dependent,  and  it's 
my  belief  that  this  is  wonderful  for  any 
marriage.  It  is  unthinkable  to  either  of  us 
that  one  could  get  along  as  well  without 
the  other,  at  home  or  at  the  studio.  The 
man  who  runs  a  grocery  (or  any  business) 
and  whose  wife  stacks  the  merchandise  on 
the  shelves  and  helps  wait  on  customers 


will  know  what  I  mean,  and  so  will  the 
wife.  Any  couple  who  are  closely  related 
in  their  work,  or  in  any  program  of  activi- 
ties, will  agree  with  me,  I  am  sure.  Each 
knows  something  of  what  the  other  is  go- 
ing through,  day  after  day.  The  wife  who 
works  alongside  her  husband,  for  instance, 
doesn't  have  to  be  told  when  business  is 
falling  off  and  cautioned  to  go  easy  on  ex- 
penditures. In  our  case,  whenever  Ted  lost 
a  show  in  the  past,  he  never  had  to  come 
home  and  break  the  news.  I  was  already 
figuring  where  I  could  save  a  few  dollars 
on  the  housekeeping,  or  deciding  to  forget 
the  new  chair  or  the  new  coat  I  had  been 
thinking  about,  until  he  got  another  show 
to  replace  the  cancelled  one.  I  feel  this 
kind  of  close  cooperation  helps  keep  a 
marriage  secure. 

Before  Ted  packaged  and  owned  his  own 
shows,  we  always  had  to  ask  the  powers- 
that-be  at  a  station  or  the  agency  whether 
we  could  do  certain  things  on  the  programs. 
But,  a  little  more  than  a  year  ago,  I  finally 
prevailed  upon  my  husband  to  become  his 
own  boss  in  these  things,  and  that's  the 
way  his  contract  is  now  framed.  It  was  part 
of  Ted's  faith  in  my  judgment  that  he  saw 
the  light  and  came  home  one  day  and  said 
so.  "Now,"  he  said  to  me,  "it's  up  to  you  to 
go  out  and  sell  the  package!" 

As  soon  as  word  got  around  that  Ted 
was  leaving  his  former  station,  our  tele- 
phone began  to  ring  like  crazy.  One  call 
came  from  WOR-TV,  on  a  Saturday,  and  I 
drove  out  to  where  Ted  was  working  in 
the  field  and  told  him  we  should  talk  it 
over  and  call  them  back.  He  got  off  the 
tractor  long  enough  to  listen  and  then 
hopped  back  on,  saying  he  would  discuss 
it  at  lunch,  being  very  much  Farmer 
Steele  instead  of  Performer  Steele.  I  went 
back  to  the  house  and  typed  up  the  list  of 
things  I  knew  we  both  wanted  in  any  con- 
tract and,  when  WOR  met  our  terms,  we 
both  felt  his  programs  had  found  a  fine 
home.  He  has  a  five-year  contract  which 
we  hope  will  be  renewed  many  times. 

lou  have  probably  noticed  that  Ted  al- 
ways closes  his  radio  and  television  shows 
with  a  hymn,  something  we  have  always 
wanted  to  do.  We  ourselves  love  hymns 
and  feel  sure  there  are  many  other  people 
who  find  comfort  and  inspiration  in  them, 
as  much  on  weekdays  as  on  Sundays.  We 
get  great  satisfaction  also  in  taking  only 
the  sponsors  whose  products  we  believe  in 
and  are  proud  to  be  advertising. 

People  often  tell  Ted  how  lucky  he  is, 
but  I  know  he  has  made  most  of  his  own 
good  luck  by  working  enormously  hard, 
by  fighting  discouragement  whenever  it 
has  got  in  his  way,  and  by  never  being 
afraid  to  forge  ahead  and  take  some 
chances.  He  gives  me  credit  for  always  be- 
ing willing  to  take  chances  along  with  him. 
I  have  always  felt  that  a  wife  who  is  worth 
her  salt  should  put  her  husband's  joy  in 
his  work  and  his  peace  of  mind  ahead  of 
any  so-called  "security"  that  may  turn  out 
to  be  an  unhappy  situation  for  them  both. 
When  Ted  has  been  really  discontented  in 
any  job,  I  have  told  him  to  give  it  up  and 
try  something  else. 

His  old  friends,  in  particular,  stress  his 
luck.  They  mention  the  farm,  the  success- 
ful shows  and  the  fine  contract,  the  healthy, 
happy  children  and  a  wife  who  is  inter- 
ested in  helping.  Ted  agrees  with  them,  of 
course,  admitting  that  he  has  been  fortu- 
nate in  many  ways.  I  think  of  the  effort  he 
has  put  into  the  talent  side  of  his  shows, 
into  the  farm,  into  the  home,  and  the  effort 
I  have  put  into  the  business  management 
and  all  the  rest  of  it,  alongside  of  him.  It 
all  seems  very  worthwhile,  however,  when 
my  husband  turns  to  me  after  one  of  these 
comments  from  a  friend,  and  adds  his  own. 
"Yep,"  he  says,  smiling  at  me  with  affec- 
tion and  understanding.  "The  harder  we 
work  the  luckier  we  get!" 


Peter  Donald 

(Continued  from  page  50) 
otherwise  see   or  hear  themselves  in  one 
of  his   after-dinner   or   TV   performances. 

Actually  the  sandy-haired  Scotch-Irish- 
man would  never  dream  of  doing  an  un- 
kind or  cruel  characterization.  His  respect 
for  people  is  too  great.  Peter's  fondness 
for  the  human  race  stems  from  the  fact 
that  he  has  met  so  many  different  types 
and  nationalities.  From  the  age  of  ten 
months,  he  travelled  all  over  the  world 
with  his  parents,  who  were  music  hall 
performers. 

"I  had  a  Zulu  warrior  for  a  nursemaid 
in  South  Africa,"  he  recalls,  "lived  through 
a  tidal  wave  in  the  Indian  Ocean,  survived 
a  plague  of  locusts  in  Australia,  and  tried 
to  learn  the  Indian  rope  trick  in  Calcutta. 
I  find  people  very  much  the  same  every- 
where. Pretty  wonderful,  in  fact.  But  you 
have  to  learn  to  understand  them.  Never 
make  the  mistake  of  trying  to  make  them 
conform  to  your  ideas." 

Like  a  great  many  humorists  and  come- 
dians, Peter  Donald  is  basically  a  serious 
and  thoughtful  person.  There's  not  a  bit 
of  the  "laugh,  clown,  laugh"  pose  about 
him  and  life  and  people  are  not  to  be 
taken  lightly  in  his  book.  For  instance, 
when  he  is  scheduled  to  make  an  after- 
dinner  speech  (he  does  almost  as  many 
banquets  as  George  Jessel),  he  will  go  to 
the  town  or  city  a  day  or  two  ahead  of 
time  to  get  the  feel  of  the  place  and  to 
know  the  people.  He  learns  what  their 
interests  are,  what  their  prejudices  may 
be.  "In  this  way,"  he  declares  seriously, 
"I  avoid  stepping  on  toes  or  probing  sore 
spots.  It  makes  no  difference  whether  I'm 
talking  to  a  group  of  twenty  or  8,000.  They 
are  people — not  numbers — and  it's  my 
business  to  please  them,  to  make  them 
laugh.  If  I  succeed,"  he  continues,  "that 
makes  me  happy." 

Peter  Donald  takes  to  the  stage  like  a 
duck  to  a  pond.  It's  in  his  blood,  his  heri- 
tage from  his  parents.  His  father  was  born 
in  the  same  Scottish  village  as  the  late 
steel  magnate  Andrew  Carnegie — who  fi- 
nanced his  trip  to  America — and  was  "dis- 
covered" aboard  ship  by  George  Primrose, 
whose  minstrel  show  was  as  famous  in  its 
day  as  any  name  band  or  top  TV  or  movie 
star  today.  Peter's  father  was  a  tenor  and 
sang  his  way  around  the  world.  He  was 
with  the  famous  Weber  and  Fields  Com- 
pany at  the  turn  of  the  century  and  had 
supper  with  Lillian  Russell.  He  also  played 
with  the  Lew  Dockstader  Minstrels,  the 
last  of  the  large  "blackface"  groups  to 
tour  the  big  time.  Peter's  mother  played 
the  piano  and  sang  a  bit,  so  it  was  inevita- 
ble that  some  of  the  greasepaint  should 
rub  off  on  the  youngster. 

"When  I  was  ten,"  Peter  recalls,  "I  was 
living  an  almost  normal  life  going  to  the 
Professional  Children's  School.  But,  one 
day,  Noel  Coward — who  was  casting  for 
his  famous  operetta,  'Bitter  Sweet' — came 
by  the  school  and  picked  me  to  play  a 
busboy  in  one  of  the  scenes.  That  was 
twenty-six  years  ago,  and  I  have  never 
been  far  off  stage  since."  It  was  impossible 
that  his  gift  for  dialect  should  remain  un- 
discovered for  long  and,  while  he  was  still 
in  his  teens,  he  got  into  radio  playing  such 
parts  as  Ethel  Barrymore's  husband  or 
Helen  Hayes'  father. 

"What  those  distinguished  ladies  of  the 
theater  thought  when  they  were  con- 
fronted with  a  beardless  boy,  whose  only 
talent  was  the  ability  to  imitate  any  voice 
he  heard,  I  cannot  imagine,"  he  laughs. 
"But  anyway,  they  were  very  kind  and 
probably  put  it  down  to  just  another  ec- 
centricity of  radio — that  upstart  of  the 
theatrical  profession.  However,  I  went 
right  along  imitating  the  voices  of  states- 
men and   other  celebrities   on   The   March 


0  Who'd  be//Q\/e  /was  e\/er 
embarrassed  by  P/MPLE£/" 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 


SKIN-COLORED 

HIDES  PIMPLES  WHILE  IT  WORKS 

Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely 
improved  while  using  CLEARASIL. 

Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil  actually 
starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the  oils 
that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  CLEARASIL's  anti- 
septic action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria  that 
can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored  to 
hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless  . . .  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 

America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication... because  clearasil  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED  to 
work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or  money 
back.  59£and98£.Atall  druggists.  GetCLEARASIL 
today.  (Available  in  Canada,  slightly  more.) 


Make  Big  Money 


selling  magazine  subscrip- 
tions. Write  today  for  FREE 
information:  TV  Radio  Mir- 
ror, 205  E.  42  St.,  N.  Y. 
17,  N.  Y. 


BE  YOUR  OWN 
MUSIC  TEACHER 

Send  (or  Free  Book  Telling  How  Easily  »,  (. 
You  Can  Learn  Piano,  Guitar,  Accordion,  J  J  -J- 
ANY    Instrument   This   EASY   A-B-C   Way 


NOW  IT'S  EAST  to  learn  music  at  home. 
No  tiresome  "exercises."  No  teacher, 
just  START  RIGHT  OUT  playing  simple 
pieces.  Thousands  now  play  who  never  thought  they 
could.  Our  pictured  lessons  make  it  easy  as  A-B-C  to 
learn  to  play  popular  music,  hymns,  classical  and  any 
other  music.  Only  a  few  cents  a  lesson.  Over  900,000 
students!  (Our  57th  successful  year.) 

MAIL  COUPON   FOR  36-PAGE  FREE  BOOK.  Find  out 
why  our  method  can  teach  you  Quickly.         ci— r""'llMWum^. 
easily,     inexpensively.     No     obligation;         I^MMBBt 
no     salesman     will     call. 
Mention   your  favorite   in- 
strument.   Just    mail    cou- 
pon below.  U.  S.  SCHOOL 
OF  MUSIC.  Studio  A-201, 
Port    Washington,     N.    Y. 


U.    S.    SCHOOL   OF    MUSIC 

Studio  A-201,   Port  Washington,    N.   Y. 

Please   send   me   Free   your   36-page   illustrated   book. 
I  would  like  to  play  (Name  Instrument! 


Have  you 
Instrument Instrument?. 


Name. . . 
Address. 


(Please  Print) 


Make    all    the   extra 
money  you  want  in  a 
few  spare  hours.  Sell 
beautiful    Fashion 
Frocks,  low  as  $2.98 
each.  We  furnish  over 
100  styles,  colors,  fabrics. 
You  risk  nothing.  No  ex- 
perience needed. Your 
own  dresses  supplied  as 
a  bonus.  Try  it  —  write 
for  free  samples. 

FASHIOM  FROCKS,  INC. 

Dept.  S-1053 
Cincinnati  25,  Ohio. 


6P 


Of  Time,  and  found  time  to  do  a  radio 
show  called  Light  Up  And  Listen — which  I 
wrote  and  emceed  for  the  magnificent  sum 
of  twenty -five  bucks  a  week.  But,"  he 
roars,  "that's  not  the  half  of  it.  On  that 
show  we  had  Dinah  Shore,  Dennis  Day 
and,  hold  your  breath — Hildegarde — for 
eighteen  dollars  a  week!" 

In  spite  of  the  fact  that  Peter  always 
loved  a  joke  and  has  an  enormous  sense  of 
humor,  he  never  thought  of  himself  as  a 
funny  man  until,  in  1940,  he  became  emcee 
of  the  Senator  Ford-Harry  Hershfield  radio 
show,  Can  You  Top  This?  Here  the  pan- 
elists vied  with  each  other  in  telling  funny 
stories,  and  Donald's  job  was  to  set  the 
pace  by  teeing  off  with  a  yarn  which  he 
usually  built  up  as  he  went  along.  But  it 
was  as  Ajax  Cassidy,  the  irascible  Irish- 
man in  "Allen's  Alley,"  on  the  Fred  Allen 
show,  that  he  really  came  into  hiS  own  as 
a  comedian. 

His  present  show  is  fun.  "It's  really  a 
giant  gag,"  he  explains.  "Our  panel — made 
up  of  Ogden  Nash,  Ilka  Chase  and  Buff 
Cobb,  with  a  guest  panelist — attempts  to 
unmask  our  contestants,  who  are  famous 
people  dressed  up  in  masquerade  costumes. 
The  costumes  usually  reflect  either  their 
name  or  their  occupation  and  there  is  a 
verbal  clue.  For  instance,  Pee  Wee  Reese, 
captain  of  the  Dodgers,  appeared  as  Napo- 
leon. You  know,  he's  called  'the  little 
Napoleon  of  baseball.'  That's  the  way  it 
goes.  Herbert  Wolf,  our  producer,  is  a 
genius  at  thinking  up  the  disguises.  The 
costume  department  does  such  a  good  job 
that  sometimes  I'm  just  as  startled  as  the 
panelists." 

Peter's  humor  is  never  turned  off  long 
and  he  roars  with  laughter  at  the  recollec- 
tion of  the  time  that  Broadway  columnist 
Leonard  Lyons  and  his  wife  Sylvia  were 
guests.    Sylvia  was  sitting  in  the  costume 


room,  done  up  in  a  flowing  garment  and  a 
long  beard,  when  Peter  rushed  in  for 
something.  He  forgot  for  a  moment  who 
was  going  on  the  show,  and  just  stared. 
Sylvia  Lyons  looked  up  through  tangled 
eyebrows  and  beard  and  said,  "Oh,  Peter! 
I  didn't  recognize  you  for  a  minute." 

"That's  what  I  like,"  he  says,  "somebody 
who  can  think  fast." 

Peter  himself  is  no  slow  wit.  His  interest 
in  everything  is  enormous.  He  buys  and 
reads  five  papers  a  day,  all  the  major 
magazines,  and  even  finds  time  for  a  novel 
or  two.  "I  learn  by  living,"  he  says.  "I 
never  had  time  for  college,  so  I've  never 
lost  my  curiosity."  His  curiosity  leads  him 
into  strange  bypaths.  He's  a  fire-buff,  for 
one  thing — a  man  who  goes  to  every  fire 
he  can.  In  fact,  he  belongs  to  The  Fire 
Bell  Club,  a  group  of  men  interested  in 
the  science  of  fire -fighting,  who  receive 
alarms  over  short-wave  radio.  He  carries 
an  accredited  badge  and,  if  there  is  a  big 
fire  and  things  really  get  tough,  he  and 
the  other  buffs  lend  a  hand  wherever  they 
can.  He's  an  honorary  fire  chief  in  Chicago 
and  other  cities,  and  when  he  goes  to  these 
towns  the  local  fire  chiefs  usually  have 
the  red  carpet  out  for  him. 

There's  something  basically  boyish  about 
Peter.  In  some  strange  way,  he's  like  a 
youngster  who  never  had  much  time  for 
play.  His  interest  in  fire-fighting  is  a 
small  boy's  projection  of  what  he  wants  to 
be  when  he  grows  up.  His  passion  for 
sports  cars  is  another  manifestation  of  a 
man  who,  as  a  boy,  didn't  have  time  for 
playmates  or  games.  His  pride  is  his 
Kaiser -Darren  car  done  in  pale  green  with 
matching  leather  upholstery. 

Peter's  apartment  in  Manhattan's  busy 
Forties  reflects  his  combined  interests. 
There  is  a  huge  file  of  jokes — classified — 
although  he  says,  "I  seldom  refer  to  it  any 


more."  He  has  a  dog — not  any  particular 
breed — just  a  dog.  And  there's  a  talking 
mynah  bird  brought  him  from  Singapore 
by  explorer  Carveth  Wells.  In  evidence 
are  also  a  fire  helmet  and  ax.  For  a  show- 
man and  someone  who  has  lived  and 
breathed  the  theater  for  years,  Peter  shows 
small  enthusiasm  for  show  people.  "I  hate 
talking  shop,"  he  explains,  "so  I  spend 
most  of  my  time  with  business  people.  I 
hope  to  be  in  business  someday  myself.  Of 
course,  it  will  have  to  be  allied  with  show 
business,  but  it  will  be  away  from  the 
acting  end  of  it." 

Although  Masquerade  Party  is  his  main 
stint  these  days,  eight  weeks  a  year  he 
also  subs  for  Don  McNeill  as  host  on  the 
Breakfast  Club.  "I  love  it,"  he  says  simply. 
"The  women  are  wonderful.  They  have  a 
wonderful  time,  and  so  do  I." 

He  at  one  time  commuted  back  and  forth 
from  Chicago,  with  his  portable  typewriter 
in  action  both  ways.  He  did  a  morning 
show  in  Chicago  and  an  evening  show  in 
New  York.  "It  was  rugged,"  is  his  sole 
comment. 

But,  in  his  thirty-six  years,  he  has  trav- 
eled a  million  miles  by  air,  plus  countless 
miles  by  ship  and  train  before  air  travel 
became  so  easy.  It's  no  wonder  that,  at 
the  drop  of  a  hat,  he'll  be  off  for  anywhere 
to  make  a  speech  or  tell  a  joke.  His  whole 
life  has  been  one  of  movement,  here  today 
and  there  tomorrow,  meeting  people,  col- 
lecting new  experiences. 

"It's  been  wonderful,"  Peter  says,  "and 
I've  been  lucky.  I  like  to  think  that  I  have 
been  able  to  make  a  few  people  forget 
their  troubles  and  have  a  good  laugh.  For, 
if  you  can  laugh,  you're  all  right." 

There's  not  much  chance  of  Peter  Don- 
ald ever  forgetting  how  to  laugh — and  his 
sense  of  humor  has  given  him  a  balance 
and    understanding    he    will    never    lose. 


How  to  Strike  It  Rich  in  1955 


(Continued  from  page  25) 
Warren's  thoughts  ranged  ahead  to  the 
changes  these  things  would  make  in  the 
lives  of  the  contestants.  He  said,  "None 
of  them  has  yet  had  time  to  realize  it,  but 
they're  going  to  find  that  the  money 
they've  won  is  less  important  than  the 
fresh  outlook  'striking  it  rich'  has  given 
them.    For  each,  it  means  a  new  start. 

"I  think  it  is  possible  for  people  to  'strike 
it  rich'  even  though  they  never  set  foot  in 
the  studio  nor  answer  a  call  from  the 
Heart  Line  To  America.  Drawing  on  what 
we've  learned  here  on  the  program,  I 
believe  we've  discovered  some  things 
which  can  help  anyone — who  wants  to — 
lead  a  fuller,  richer  life." 

There  was  conviction  in  his  tone  as  he 
warmed  to  his  subject.  "I  say  this  because 
I  truly  believe  that  the  greatest  need  in 
America  today  is  to  strike  it  rich  spirit- 
ually. So  many  people  close  themselves  in, 
concerned  only  with  their  own  immediate, 
material  needs  and  dull  themselves  to  what 
is  happening  around  them.  In  losing  a 
sense  of  responsibility  to  others,  we've  also 
dimmed  our  concept  of  the  dignity  of  man. 
We  forget  that  such  indifference,  such  re- 
fusal to  stand  up  for  the  right,  on  the  part 
of  people  in  Germany,  let  Hitler  rise  to 
power.    The  same  thing  can  happen  here." 

He  returned  to  the  Strike  It  Rich  pro- 
gram to  illustrate  his  point.  "You'd  be 
surprised  how  many  times  our  contestants 
are  completely  overcome  by  the  Heart 
Line  calls.  They'll  say,  'This  is  the  first 
T  time  we  knew  anyone  cared  what  hap- 
V     pened  to  us.' 

r  "I  think  that  the  best  way  to  strike  it 
rich  spiritually  is  to  try  to  strike  it  rich  for 
someone  else.    Fully  twenty-five  per  cent 

70 


of  the  people  who  come  to  our  program 
seek  to  help  someone  else — and,  do  you 
know,  it  makes  a  difference  in  the  way 
they  answer  the  questions?  Time  after  time, 
I've  seen  such  people  overcome  their  ner- 
vousness and  come  up  with  the  answers." 

He  recalled  with  appreciation  a  few  of 
the  persons  who  had  done  this.  "There 
was  the  man  who  wanted  to  'strike  it  rich' 
for  a  church  where  he  had  found  a  lasting 
religious  experience.  A  nurse  in  Los  An- 
geles turned  up  asking  for  a  TV  set  for 
the  patients  in  the  ward  she  served.  A 
baseball  scout  wanted  money  to  help  a 
promising  youngster  who,  if  he  had  some 
corrective  surgery,  had  a  good  chance  to 
achieve  the  big  leagues." 

What  happens  after  such  contestants  do 
"strike  it  rich"?  Warren  had  a  story  for 
that,  too. 

"You'd  be  surprised  at  some  of  the 
things  which  result.  At  the  time  of  our 
seventh  anniversary  last  summer,  we 
heard  again  from  Mrs.  Kathleen  Scanlon 
of  Paterson,  New  Jersey.  Originally  in 
1952,  she  had  come  to  us  asking  for  a 
chance  to  win  the  money  to  buy  a  bathtub. 
Her  five-year-old  daughter,  Candy,  had 
had  polio  and  needed  whirlpool  treat- 
ments. She  won  three  hundred  and 
twenty-five  dollars  and  there  were  nu- 
merous Heart  Line  calls." 

What  happened  next  was  enough  to  thrill 
any  giver  who  had  a  part  in  it.  Warren 
said,  "Last  summer,  Mrs.  Scanlon  told  us 
that  new  doors  seemed  to  open  every- 
where. In  thanking  the  people  who  con- 
tributed Heart  Line  gifts,  the  family  made 
many  new  friends.  Today  they  have  a  new 
home  with  a  big  back  yard  for  Candy  to 
play    in.     The    child    has    grown    tall    and 


lovely  in  her  new  surroundings.  She  plays 
with  other  children  and  attends  school. 
Mrs.  Scanlon  said  she  set  out  merely  to 
get  a  bathtub  for  Candy  and,  to  her  sur- 
prise, found  a  new  lease  on  life." 

Aside  from  Strike  It  Rich — which  can 
take  only  a  thousand  contestants  a  year — 
where  can  people  find  a  means  to  help 
others  and  find  those  who  need  such  help? 

Warren  had  an  answer  for  that,  too. 
"The  first  place  to  look  is  right  in  your 
own  back  yard,"  he  advised.  "You  know, 
we  human  beings  are  wonderfully  versa- 
tile and  woefully  incomplete,  all  at  the 
same  time.  We  need  to  cooperate,  and  we 
need  cooperation.  Your  friends  may  not 
be  in  the  desperate  straits  of  some  of 
the  people  you  see  on  our  program,  but 
there's  always  something  you  can  do  to 
make  their  lives  more  pleasant.  Maybe  you 
can  bake,  and  a  friend  would  appreciate 
a  plate  of  home-made  cookies.  Maybe  you 
can  show  an  interest  in  a  youngster  who's 
on  the  brink  of  delinquency.  You  get  the 
reward  of  having  your  talents  appreciated. 
None  of  us  was  meant  to  exist  alone.  It's 
fun  to  give  each  other  a  helping  hand." 

That  should  be  the  beginning  but  not  the 
end  of  one's  reaching  out,  he  indicated. 
"There  isn't  a  church  or  a  synagogue  in 
the  country  which  couldn't  use  a  few  extra 
members  who  are  willing  to  put  their  re- 
ligion to  work,"  he  said.  "That's  the  easi- 
est way  to  strike  it  rich  spiritually.  Your 
own  worship  and  the  church's  organiza- 
tions can  lead  into  a  whole  realm  of  new, 
enriching  experiences.  Church  organiza- 
tions, because  they  can  operate  informally, 
on  the  basis  of  need  rather  than  red  tape, 
have  always  been  a  community's  first  fine 
of  defense  against  the  kind  of  sudden  dis- 


aster  which  can  strike  any  family.  There's 
many  a  person  who  got  a  fresh  start  be- 
cause of  some  Ladies'  Aid." 

Another  phase  occurred  to  him.  "If 
you  want  to  look  at  the  financial  aspect 
for  a  minute,  have  you  ever  handed  your 
minister  a  few  dollars  and  told  him  to  use 
it  wherever  he  thought  it  would  do  the 
most  good?  Ministers  of  all  faiths  are  al- 
ways being  called  on  to  give  some  personal 
help  which  wasn't  foreseen  when  the 
church  budget  was  made  up.  Ministers 
often  make  such  appeals  to  us,  on  behalf 
of  someone  they  can't  take  care  of — and, 
believe  me,  they  get  careful  consideration." 

The  satisfaction  of  being  able  to  give 
personal  service  is  one  of  the  fullest  re- 
wards which  work  for  a  church  can  offer, 
Warren  pointed  out.  "Have  you  ever  real- 
ized that  a  church  can  use  almost  any 
talent  you  have?  If  you  can  sew,  there  are 
church  fairs  and  charities  which  need  your 
help.  If  you  can  keep  books,  there  are 
treasurers'  jobs  which  need  filling.  If  you 
know  about  football  or  baseball,  there  are 
youth    groups    which    need     counselors." 

He  recalled  a  personal  incident  where  a 
church  had  made  him  feel  that  he  him- 
self had  "struck  it  rich."  "Last  year,  the 
Roxborough  Methodist  Church  in  Phila- 
delphia put  on  a  series  of  meetings  which 
they  called  Television  Evenings,  and  in- 
vited me  to  speak.  As  it  turned  out,  my 
sons  Paul,  who  is  in  the  Air  Force,  and 
George,  who  is  in  college,  were  able  to  go 
with  me.  I  talked  and  played  the  trumpet, 
and  we  all  sang.  The  audience  loved  it, 
but  I  can  tell  you  I  got  an  even  bigger 
thrill  from  being  able  to  stand  up  and 
sing  with  two  of  my  boys." 

Since  striking  it  rich  in  any  fashion  im- 
plies suddenly  enjoying  a  bounty  which 
you  did  not  previously  have,  it  obviously 
requires  a  "something  extra"  to  achieve  it. 
Here,  too,  Warren  had  some  practical  sug- 
gestions. 

"Every  human  being  possesses  the  same 
asset  which  is  always  dramatically  shown 
by  our  contestants — the  ability  to  change 
and  grow,  to  strive  for  a  new  horizon." 

He  had  a  practical  suggestion  to  stimu- 
late such  growth.  "To  get  things  started, 
you  might  try  asking  yourself  the  same 
questions  we  ask  our  contestants.  First, 
you  determine  how  you  want  to  strike  it 
rich.  Set  a  goal  you  can  achieve.  Make  it 
definite  and  not  too  difficult.  Once  you've 
reached  it,  it  will  open  up  new  goals  and 
you'll  find  you  will  have  gained  the 
strength  to  tackle  something  tougher. 

"Next,  ask  yourself  what  talents  you 
possess  which  will  help  you  attain  your 
goal.  Don't  be  afraid  to  utilize  those  abil- 
ities which  normally  you  keep  half -hidden. 
They  may  be  the  very  things  which  turn 
the  balance  for  you  or  give  you  the  great- 
est pleasure. 

"Finally,  look  around  to  discover  how 
you  can  best  employ  your  ability  to  help 
someone  else.  Your  minister  can  tell  you 
what  jobs  need  doing  in  your  church. 
Hospitals  need  a  great  variety  of  volun- 
teers. And  don't  forget  that  your  own 
friends  often  can  use  a  little  assistance. 
You  can  fill  a  need.  You  can  make  some- 
one else  happier.  You  can  enrich  another's 
life." 

Will  such  a  personal  Strike  It  Rich  pro- 
ject be  worth  the  effort? 

Warren  Hull  thinks  so.  "The  most  frus- 
trating thing  which  can  happen  to  any 
human  being  is  to  feel  that  no  one  wants 
or  values  his  talents.  Your  own  life  ex- 
pands as  you  find  more  ways  to  use  your 
abilities,  more  people  to  enjoy  them.  In- 
stead of  repeating  that  old  saying,  'Give 
till  it  hurts,'  recognize  what  you're  going 
to  gain.  Revise  it  to:  'Give  until  you  feel 
good.'  When  you've  done  that,  you'll  know 
that  spiritually  you've  struck  it  rich." 


GENTLE  EX-LAX  HELPS 


YOU  TOWARD 


YOUR  NORMAL  REGULARITY 


TONIGHT— If  you  need  a  laxative, 
take  chocolated  Ex-Lax,  America's 
best-tasting  laxative.  Take  it  at  bed- 
time—it won't  disturb  your  sleep. 


IN  THE  MORNING-You'll  enjoy 
the  closest  thing  to  natural  action. 
No  discomfort  or  upset.  You'll  soon 
feel  like  yourself  again! 


NEXT   DAY— Ex-Lax  continues  to  help  you  toward  your  normal 
regularity.  You  hardly  ever  have  to  take  Ex-Lax  again  the  next  night! 


Buy  The  New  65  £  Size— 
Save  As  Much  As  37  £ 

Also  available  in 


EX- LAX 


304  and  124  sizes 

THE    CHOCOLATED    LAXATIVE 

MORE 

PEOPLE     USE     EX-LAX 

THAN     ANY     OTHER     LAXATIVE 

©1954  Ex-Lax  Inc. 

OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


i 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  inj  uries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 
R.   G.   VISCOSE   COMPANY 

140  N.   Dearborn  Street,  Chicago  2,   Illinois 


EXTRA  CASH 


can  be  yours  for 
helping  us  take  or- 
ders    for     magazine 

subscriptions.  Earn  as  much  as  $1.50  an  hour. 

For  FREE  information,  write  to:    TV  Radio 

Mirror  Subscription  Agents,   205  E.  42   St.,   New 

York  17,  N.  Y. 


Subscribe  Now 
And  Save! 

You  can  save  cash  on  TV  Radio  Mirror 
Magazine,  if  you  act  at  once.  Although 
the  regular  price  is  25$  a  copy,  and  $3  a 
year,  you  can  get  a  full  year  of  TV  Radio 
Mirror,  plus  five  months  more  for  only 
$3.  Simply  clip  and  mail  the  coupon  be- 
low today.  You  will  receive  17  thrilling 
issues  for  $1.25  under  regular  prices. 
Thousands  pay  $4.25  for  this  at  the  news- 
stands. So  act  today  on  this  cash  saving 
opportunity. 

.. ...Mail  This  Coupon  Today---, 

TV  Radio  Mirror,  Dept.  TV  2-55 

205  East  42  St.,   New  York  17,   N.   Y. 

Yes!  Enter  my  bargain  subscription  at  once.  Send 
me  17  months  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  for  only  $3,  sav- 
ing me  $1.25  under  regular  prices.  I  enclose  $3 
as  payment  in  full. 


Name. 


Address. 
City.... 


.Zone.  .  .  .State. 


MAGNETIC 
POT  HOLDERS 


Place  thesei 
quilted 
magnetic  pot 
holders  flat 
against  any  metal  sur 
(stove,  refrigerator,  metal 
cabinets,  etc.).  Presto!  They 
"stay  put"  —  ready  and  handy 
to  use  .  .  .  flip  them  back 
against  the  metal -and  they 
stay  in  place... as  decorative 
as  they  are  useful  .  .  .  tiny 
magnets  are  invisible  and  will 
last  forever ...  washable  and 
rust  proof ...  no  modern 
kitchen  should  be  without 
them... makes  a  stunning  gift 
. . .  Order  yours  NOW !  We  pay 
postage!  Use  coupon. 


"TWIN 
KITTENS" 

only 

$125 

I  a  pair 


World  Wide 

I 

63  Central  Ave.,  Ossining,  N.Y. 

/   enclose   $ for "Twin   Kittens" 

Pot  Holders. 

StrPPt 

City                               7nnf>            .Stnt** 

Send  cash  or  money  order. 

1 

(Continued  from  page  34) 
new  baby  sister  or  brother  in  her  tummy." 
With  that  report,  they  begin  to  feel  that 
their  discovery  is  somehow  responsible 
for  the  new  baby — and  it  immediately  be- 
comes as  much  theirs  as  yours. 

But,  one  day  after  our  explanations,  two 
dozen  new  diapers  came  in  from  the  de- 
partment store.  I  showed  them  to  Georgie, 
proudly  thinking  that  our  preparing  her 
this  way  was  a  good  idea.  Then  I  asked 
her,  "Georgie,  what  would  you  rather  have 
— a  baby  sister  or  a  baby  brother?" 

She  thought  a  moment — paying  no  at- 
tention to  the  diapers — then  said:  "I'd  like 
a  baby  crocodile!" 

I'll  admit  I  was  thrown;  I  didn't  know 
how  we  were  going  to  get  past  this! 

Of  course,  we  carefully  prepared  Georgie 
for  the  first  day  that  little  Benita  Lee 
(Beany)  and  I  came  home  from  the  hos- 
pital. We  didn't  want  Georgie  to  think  that 
Beany  was  displacing  her  in  our  affections. 
At  the  same  time,  we  wanted  Georgie  to 
feel  that  Beany,  though  she  was  unable  to 
show  much  affection,  loved  her  older  sister 
very  much.  We  made  sure  Georgie  under- 
stood that  Beany  was  glad  to  see  her: 
When  we  brought  in  Beany,  we  also 
brought  in  a  shiny  new  bike — from  Beany 
to  Georgie. 

Was  there  rivalry  between  the  two  chil- 
dren? Of  course.  Every  new  baby  takes 
up  time.  The  attention  Beany  now  re- 
ceives had  in  the  past  gone  to  Georgie — 
she  had  been  the  queen  bee  for  some  time. 
We  tried  to  get  around  this  by  not  break- 
ing into  Georgie's  schedule.  Today  we 
still  do  the  same  things  together  that  we 
had  done  before  Beany  was  born,  and  at 
the  same  time  of  day. 

In  trying  to  make  it  as  easy  on  Georgie 
as  possible,  we  followed  her  old  routine. 
Every  morning  she  comes  up  to  my  room 
and  says,  "Hi,"  before  going  down  to 
breakfast.  Then,  after  breakfast,  I  make 
up  her  "pony-tail,"  and  drive  her  to  school. 
In  the  afternoon,  when  I  come  home  from 
the  studio,  we  usually  have  a  little  project 
going,  such  as  watching  TV,  or  playing 
house  or  "Rockaby."  The  latter  is  a 
watered-down  version  of  "London  Bridge." 
Georgie  stands  up  on  the  bed  and  we  hold 
hands  and  sway  back  and  forth.  When  we 
get  to  the  part,  "Down  we  go,  Georgie,"  I 
give  her  a  shove.  She  never  knows  when 
it's  coming,  so  she  bounces  up  and  down 
on  the  bed  three  or  four  times — which  she 
just  loves.  All  this,  of  course,  takes  time. 
But  you  have  to  make  this  time,  in  order 
to  receive  the  love  of  two  children  instead 
of  only  one. 

But,  of  course,  Georgie  wants  extra  rec- 
ognition and  attention  when  she  finds  me 
devoting  time  to  Beany.  I'll  never  forget 
the  time  she  caught  me  feeding  the  baby. 

"What  are  you  doing?"  she  said. 

"I'm  feeding  Beany." 

"Well,  where's  Krupp?"  (Krupp  is  the 
baby's  nurse.) 

"Krupp  is  off  today,"  I  said.  "Everybody 
has  a  day  off.  Mary,  our  housekeeper,  has 
a  day  off;  Krupp  has  a  day  off;  and  today 
is  Krupp's  day  off." 

She  thought  about  this  for  a  minute,  then 
right  out  of  the  blue  exclaimed,  "Did  I  ever 
show  you  how  I  rock  on  my  rocking 
chair!"  And,  with  much  commotion,  she 
proceeded  to  drag  the  chair  in  and  started 
to  rock  back  and  forth.  She  wanted  to  at- 
tract attention.  Needless  to  say,  this  is 
one  way  to  get  it. 

In    every   way   possible,   we    try   to   re- 

T    assure  Georgie  that  she's  not  left  out.  One 

v    way   we've   found    to   include   her   in    the 

I    family  is  to  give  her  some  responsibility 

with  Beany.  When  Beany  cries  and  Georgie 

hears  it,  we  are  to  get  a  full  report  from 

her.    This   makes   Beany   the   "baby"   and 


Millie's  Mama 

Georgie,  going  on  five,  the  "big  girl"  now. 

It's  become  a  big  thing  whenever  Beany 
cries.  "Ugh!"  says  Georgie.  "Beany's  crying, 
I  never  cried  when  /  was  a  baby!" 

"Oh,  yes,  you  did,"  I  reply.  "Daddy 
cried,  I  cried,  we  all  cried  when  we  were 
babies." 

"Oh,  no,"  she  insists.  "I  never  cried.  .  .  ." 

By  having  Georgie  report  Beany's  cries, 
we've  made  it  into  a  first  step  in  teaching 
her  responsibility.  However,  since  Beany 
cries  every  time  she's  hungry,  Georgie's 
attitude  has  almost  become:  "If  it  weren't 
for  me,  that  baby  would  never  eat!" 

My  husband  George  and  I  have  found 
that  children  take  younger  brothers  and 
sisters  one  of  two  ways:  They  either  re- 
vert back  to  their  childhood,  getting  down 
on  all  fours  and  demanding  a  bottle,  or 
they  take  it  as  Georgie  does — so  grown-up. 

In  fact,  Georgie's  such  a  big  girl  now 
that  she  said  to  me,  a  few  days  ago,  "May 
I  have  your  furs  and  your  jewels  when 
I  go  out  on  my  dates?" 

"Where  are  you  going?"  I  asked. 

"Oh,"  she  said,  "I'm  going  with  Jimmy 
(our  neighbor's  son)  to  Romanoff's  and 
then  to  a  movie.  You  don't  have  to  come 
along  to  chaperon,  you  know,  because 
Jimmy's  mother  will  drive  us." 

You  know,  as  parents,  we  sometimes 
forget  how  we  felt  at  that  age.  I  remember 
that  my  older  brother  Billy  was  always 
kind  to  his  younger  sister  (me).  In  fact, 
he  was  responsible  for  getting  me  my  first 
job.  Billy  had  a  wonderful  singing  voice, 
so  friends  suggested  that  our  mother  take 
him  to  a  radio  station  in  New  York.  She 
did  and,  before  long,  Billy  had  a  spot  on 
Nila  Mack's  show,  Let's  Pretend.  Since  no- 
body was  left  to  "mind"  me,  Mom  used  to 
drag  me  along,  too. 

By  practicing  on  my  dad's  law  books,  I 
learned  to  read  at  a  very  early  age.  One 
day  at  Billy's  show,  a  young  girl  failed 
to  show  up.  Billy  said,  "My  sister  is  here — 
she  can  read.  .  .  ."  And  that's  how  I  got 
started. 

When  Billy  came  to  Hollywood  to  do 
the  movie  version  of  "Dead  End,"  I  came 
along,  working  first  in  radio  and  then  in 
the  "Nancy  Drew"  series  with  Bonita 
Granville.  Later  I  made  some  pictures  at 
Universal-International.  Then  I  quit  show 
business  and  started  studying  law. 

Ever  since  I  was  a  little  girl,  I'd  wanted 
to   be   either  an   actress   or   a   judge.    My 


listen  then  look! 

Listen  to  "True  Detective  Mysteries"  every 
Sunday  afternoon  and  help  police  look  for  the 
fugitive  criminals  described  on  the  program. 

$1000.00   REWARD!  A  reward   of 

$1000.00  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  any  of  these  criminals.  For 
details  tune  in  your  Mutual  station  Sunday 
afternoon   and   hear 

"TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES" 

Every  Sunday  Afternoon  on  Mutual  stations    . 


Read  "The  Black  Widower" — the 
headline  story  of  George  Sack  who 
murdered  three  wives — in  January 
TRUE  DETECTIVE  MAGAZINE  at 
newsstands  now. 


mother  kept  reminding  me  of  that  fact,  so 
I  finally  quit  acting  to  give  the  law  a  crack. 
I  stayed  in  law  school  two  and  a  half 
years.  But,  when  Billy  went  into  service, 
I  wanted  to  do  my  share.  I  started  enter- 
taining at  camp  shows,  with  Kate  Smith, 
Kay  Kyser,  and  others — and  soon  found 
myself  back  in  show  business. 

Then  I  met  George,  who  was  an  execu- 
tive with  the  William  Morris  Agency.  He 
asked  me  for  a  date  over  the  phone,  dur- 
ing a  rehearsal  with  a  director  who  hated 
interruptions. 

George  said,  "Uh  .  .  .  uh  .  .  .  uh  .  .  ." 
for  so  long  it  sounded  like  a  busy  signal. 
But  he  finally  got  it  out:  "Miss  Halop, 
would  you  care  to  go  to  the  beach?"  A  year 
later,  I  married  the  man.  (Do  you  think 
husbands  are  sentimental?  I  later  received 
a  gold  locket  inscribed  with  what  I  con- 
sider ten  cherished  words:  "Miss  Halop, 
would  you  care  to  go  to  the  beach?") 

Georgie — Georgianna  Duffy  Gruskin — 
was  born  February  6,  1950.  Ed  "Archie" 
Gardner  is  her  godfather  and  Joan  Davis  is 
her  godmother,  so  she's  got  to  be  a  com- 
edienne. Seriously,  we  don't  have  any  plans 
for  her.  I  don't  believe  in  that.  If  she 
wants  a  show-business  career,  it's  up  to 
her.  But  I  do  want  Georgie — and  Beany, 
too — to  grow  up  normally  and  have  fun  as 
children.  So  often,  youngsters  are  forced 
into  theatrical  careers  and  they  don't 
really  like  it — it  makes  old  folks  of  them 
before  their  time,  and  there's  nothing 
sadder  than  a  child  who's  missed  his  child- 
hood. Billy  and  I  were  never  forced  into 
acting.  We  were  never  forced  into  any- 
thing. But  we  wanted  to  perform — we  were 
both  hams  from  the  word  go! 

In  fact,  I  loved  acting  so  much  that  I 
worked  right  up  to  the  day  before  Georgie 
was  born.  At  that  time  I  was  doing  "Miss 
Duffy"  on  Duffy's  Tavern  and  also  playing 
a  character  called  "Hot  Breath  Hallihan" — 
a  real  wild  gal — on  the  Jimmy  Durante 
show.  No  one  knew  I  was  pregnant.  I  bor- 
rowed all  my  girl  friends'  mink  jackets, 
which  covered  me  like  a  blanket. 

I  had  a  wonderful  time  carrying 
Georgie.  Never  had  a  minute's  ache  or 
pain,  and  she  was  born  very  fast.  I  was 
supposed  to  be  at  an  eleven  o'clock  re- 
hearsal of  the  Durante  show,  but  I  had 
Georgie  at  nine -forty -eight,  instead.  It 
was  all  very  wonderful — and  surprising. 

With  Beany,  I  worked  up  until  the  week 
before.  But  I  didn't  have  any  problems 
on  Millie — because,  as  "Mama,"  I  wear 
padding.  As  the  final  months  went  by,  all 
I  did  was  take  away  some  of  the  stuffing. 

To  get  back  to  the  children,  my  hus- 
band George  is  a  great  help — especially 
in  regard  to  Georgie  and  keeping  up  our 
B.B.  (Before  Beany)  schedule.  We  have 
"Daddy-and-Georgie  day" — that's  Sunday, 
when  I  study  my  lines  and  they  trot  off 
to  the  park  or  zoo.  And  Saturdays,  after 
two  o'clock,  we  have  a  "family  day,"  when 
we  all  go  off  to  the  beach  together.  Mon- 
days, I  take  Georgie  to  school  in  the 
morning;  after  I  come  home  from  the 
studio,  we  watch  TV  together  and  then 
she's  off  to  bed.  Tuesday,  I  just  have  time 
to  come  in  to  say  good  night.  Wednesdays, 
I  have  my  hair  done  in  the  morning,  but 
I  have  that  afternoon  with  her.  Thursday 
is  my  housekeeper's  day  off,  and  Friday  is 
my  nurse's  day  off,  so  those  two  days  we're 
together  at  home. 

I  really  don't  feel  I  take  too  much  time 
away  from  the  girls.  I  don't  go  to  bridge 
clubs  or  out  to  luncheons.  I  spend  every 
spare  minute  with  Georgie  and  Beany. 
I  admit,  I  have  to  work  at  it.  But  it's  worth 
it,  for  I've  found  that  you  can't  measure 
the  love  of  two  children  by  the  hours  on 
the  clock — or  any  other  mathematical  sys- 
tem in  this  world. 


Every  Girl  a  Fashion  Queen 


(Continued  from  page  48) 
ask  me:   "Miss  Cagney,  you're  the  fashion 
expert — tell  me,   how  can   I  make   myself 
beautiful?    How  do  I  know  what  fashions 
are  for  me?" 

My  answer  always  sounds  like  three - 
part  harmony:  First  know  yourself;  second, 
know  what  you'd  like  to  be;  and  third,  take 
steps  toward  that  goal. 

But  the  first  step  is  the  most  important: 
Know  yourself.  Who  are  you?  What  are 
you?  What  are  you  capable  of?  What  is 
your  personality  like — cooperative,  agree- 
able, understanding,  introspective,  active, 
feminine?   What  are  your  beautiful  points? 

For  to  be  in  fashion  is  to  be  yourself! 

I  didn't  always  know  this.  I  didn't  al- 
ways know  what  was  best  for  me.  The 
reason  was  because  I  hadn't  looked  deeply 
enough  into  fashion,  I  didn't  know  the 
significance  of  line,  of  color,  or  the  mean- 
ings attached  to  ribbons,  frills,  and  bows. 

My  difficulty  was  not  confusion,  it  was 
over-purposefulness.  I  was,  by  gosh,  going 
to  be  an  actress!  As  an  actress,  I  was  in- 
terested in  costumes,  but  for  on-stage  pur- 
poses only.  When  I  was  in  Hunter  College 
High  School  and  Hunter  College,  I  did 
plays  all  the  time;  I  was  busy  and  I  thought 
I  didn't  have  time  to  worry  about  fashion! 

Costumes,  on  the  other  hand,  were  an- 
other matter  completely!  When  I  was  on 
Broadway  doing  plays,  there  were  always 
wonderful  designers  creating  the  costumes 
(Robert  Edmond  Jones,  incidentally,  did 
the  ones  for  "The  Ice  Man  Cometh"). 
And,  when  I  was  an  ingenue  in  pictures 
at  Paramount,  Edith  Head  was  supervisor 
of  costumes. 

My  goal  was  to  be  a  dramatic  actress, 
and  I  was  busy  pursuing  this  goal:  I 
played  leads  on  Broadway;  did  stock  every 
summer;  played  leads  in  pictures  like 
"Time  of  Your  Life"  and  "Quicksand." 
No  time  for  clothes — or  so  I  thought.  My 
brothers,  Jim  and  Bill,  tried  to  straighten 
me  out  on  this.  It  was  my  brother  Bill, 
a  producer,  who  tried  to  give  me  the 
proper  slant  on  clothes — he  tried  to  drive 
home  the  fact  that  they  were  a  reflection 
of  the  inner  person. 

So,  in  trying  to  apply  what  Bill  told  me, 
I  began  taking  a  course  under  Edith  Head. 
Then,  as  I  studied  in  the  class,  I  realized 
my  errors — though  I  loved  fancy  clothes, 
they  were  not  right  for  me. 

1  learned  from  Edith  what  "dressing  the 
personality"  means:  when  she  does  a  cos- 
tume, it  is  for  character.  Rather  than  over- 
laying it  on  the  top,  she  works  from  the 
heart. 

Before  meeting  Edith,  I  hadn't  looked 
deeply  enough  into  fashion.  I'd  get  lost 
in  a  bow  or  a  pretty  ribbon,  instead  of 
looking  at  the  over-all  line  of  the  dress 
and  what  it  meant:  A  short  high  line,  for 
example,  suggests  an  ingenue,  whereas  a 
tailored  line  suggests  more  definition  in  a 
character. 

In  designing  for  motion  pictures,  it  was 
Edith's  job  to  bring  out  the  individuality 
of  her  characters  with  clothes.  The  fact 
that  she  does  it  consistently  is  proof  that 
you  can  do  it,  too — with  practice.  I  can 
remember  one  picture  in  which  Edith 
achieved  seven  different  personality  effects 
with  the  one  leading  character.  It  was 
"Affairs  of  Susan,"  with  Joan  Fontaine,  in 
which  Susan  dressed  for  the  mental  pic- 
ture of  herself  which  she  thought  each  of 
her  seven  different  beaux  held.  It  was  a 
tour-de-force  in  design.  She  was  a  prim 
school-teacherish  gal,  a  siren,  an  ingenue, 
a  chic  woman  of  the  big  city,  etc.  And  she 
did  it  all  with  clothes  and  accessories — the 
prim  character,  for  example,  seldom  wore 
jewelry,  but  the  siren  literally  jangled! 

In   dressing   our    own   characters,   Edith 


taught  us  to  plan.  One  exercise  we  used 
illustrated  how  we  could  make  five  cos- 
tumes from  one  basic  dress  (this  is  es- 
pecially good  practice  for  the  career  girl) . 
The  basic  dress  then  took  the  girl  to  the 
office  in  the  morning  to  work,  to  lunch  at 
the  Ambassador,  to  tea  in  the  afternoon 
with  her  boss,  to  dinner  at  the  Moulin 
Rouge  and,  finally,  to  the  theater. 

There's  no  magic  to  it — all  the  changes 
can  be  carried  in  a  hat  box:  Collar  and 
cuffs  for  the  morning  at  work — a  sweater 
at  lunch — take  off  the  sweater,  add  a 
jacket,  carry  a  muff! 

It's  a  challenge  to  make  the  entire  en- 
semble portable — an  essential  challenge, 
for  a  career  girl.  But  a  housewife  can 
benefit  from  the  planning,  too.  Try  making 
your  grocery  shopping,  downtown  depart- 
ment-store trip,  luncheon,  bridge  party 
and  tea,  all  in  one  basic  dress — with  hat- 
box  changes. 

You'll  also  be  surprised  how  much 
money  you  can  save  by  planning  your 
annual  wardrobe.  Edith  Head  made  the 
following  suggestion:  Make  a  little  "match 
stick"  sketch  of  every  dress  in  your  ward- 
robe and  make  every  possible  costume 
change  with  it.  Then  plan  your  purchases 
around  some  basic  color  and  combination 
of  outfits  that  will  give  you  a  maximum 
number  of  changes. 

lou  may  not  wish  to  go  to  the  trouble 
of  making  the  stick  drawings  (believe  me, 
it's  not  hard,  I've  had  no  artistic  training 
either) .  But,  if  you  have  a  basic  gray  out- 
fit, for  instance,  here's  another  idea  that 
may  save  you  time  and  money:  Do  some 
window  shopping.  Pick  out  the  "hot" 
colors  for  the  season,  then  get  a  scarf  in 
this  outstanding  fashion  color,  a  bolero, 
a  nosegay  of  flowers,  or  a  pair  of  bright 
shoes.  This  year,  the  colors  are  orange  and 
purple.  I  don't  generally  suggest  using 
three  colors  at  once — though  some  de- 
signers do — but  gray  and  orange  are  nice 
together,  and  so  are  gray  and  purple. 

Don't  let  the  shopping  for  accessories 
be  "random."  This  is  where  people  waste 
money.  They  go  into  a  store,  see  a  pretty 
striped  sweater,  a  gay  string  of  beads,  and 
just  buy.  Don't  buy  on  impulse!  Make 
your  plan  and  stick  to  it.  Otherwise,  when 
you  get  home,  you  may  find  there's  ab- 
solutely nothing  in  your  wardrobe  to  wear 
with  your  pretty  new  sweater! 

In  your  planning,  think  of  color.  It  has 
a  lot  to  do  with  your  personality.  The 
darker  shades  speak  for  a  more  introspec- 
tive individual.  Or  there  may  be  a  special 
reason  for  a  dress — a  wedding,  for  ex- 
ample: Of  course,  the  bride  will  be  in 
white,  but  her  mother  will  look  best  in  a 
soft,  subdued  shade,  perhaps  dusty  rose. 

The  lines  of  a  dress  can  also  help  you 
with  your  apparent  size:  Vertical  lines 
tend  to  make  you  look  taller;  horizontal 
lines  help  you  look  wider.  Colors,  too, 
change  your  apparent  size:  Light,  bright 
colors  make  you  appear  larger;  dark  colors 
make  you  appear  smaller. 

One  last  note  about  dressing  for  your 
own  individual  personality:  Have  patience. 
Every  season,  there's  a  new  line  of  clothes. 
Some  manufacturers  carry  a  wide  range  of 
lines,  others  specialize.  You  may  not  find 
the  particular  item  for  you  at  first  look, 
but  patience — somewhere  along  the  way 
you  will  find  a  manufacturer  whose  dress 
or  suit  is  best  adapted  to  you. 

You  know,  recognizing  the  individuality 
in  the  personality  of  others,  is  an  impor- 
tant part  of  living,  too.  In  fact,  I  think  it  is 
one  of  the  most  important  attributes  of  per- 
sonality— accepting  other  people  for  what 
they  are,  not  being  critical,  but  being  un- 
derstanding of  them  as  individuals.  I  think 
it  was  this  one  thing  that  began  to  develop 


New  Way 
Wash  Face 

IMPROVES  SKIN  AMAZINGLY 


Blemishes  Gone— Baby-Soft  Skin 
Returns  in  7  Days! 

WEEP  NO  MORE  over 
ugly  blackheads,  exter- 
nally caused  pimples, 
dryness,  oily  shine. 
Most  skin  troubles, 
doctors  say,  are  due  to 
improper  cleansing. 

SEE  THRILLING  RESULTS!  Change  to 
Cuticura  Soap— mildest  of  all  lead- 
ing soaps  by  laboratory  tests— only 
soap  superfatted  to  maintain  the 
natural  moisture  and  normal,  healthy 
acidity  of  the  skin— mildly  medicated 
for  extra  skin  care.  Use  emollient 
Cuticura  Ointment  nightly  to  soften 
as  it  helps  heal. 

FREE  Soap  sample  and  leaflet  on 
right  way  to  wash.  Write  Cuticura. 
Dept.  TS-155,  Maiden  48,  Mass. 

(juticura 


make  EXTRA  CASH 

s.     Sell  Exciting  New  Line 

CHILDREN'S 
WEAR 


Make  ap  to  $35.00  in  a  week  in  spare  hours 
showing:  your  friends,  neighbors  world '3 
cutest, loveliest  children's  dresses— in- 
cluding famous  Dan  River  Ginghams,  and 
jeans,  T-shirts,  playwear,  nightwear — 
everything  for  children  from  tots  to  teen- 
agers. Huge  selection  at  LOW  PRICES. 
no  C  C  Rush  coupon  today  and  we  send 
I  It  L. I.  you  BigDress Display  abso- 
lutely FREE.  See  how  easily  you  can 
make  money  and  get  your  own  chil- 
)  dren's  dresses  without  one  penny  cost 
— just  in  spare  time.  Write  now. 

HARFORD    FROCKS 

Dept.  N-1351.       Cincinnati  25,  Ohio 

Harford  Frocks,  Dept.  N-1351 
Cincinnati  25,  Ohio 


Name.*. 


Address „. 

City State.. 


73 


respect  and  affection  between  my  step  chil- 
dren, Patience  and  Charlie,  and  me. 

I  treated  them  as  individuals.  They  re- 
sponded, in  turn,  with  their  love  and  un- 
derstanding. 

But  let  me  go  back  to  the  beginning:  To- 
ward the  end  of  1951,  I  was  working  every 
day  at  the  Assistance  League  with  a  group 
of  pre-school  children.  In  order  to  under- 
stand them  better,  I  was  taking  some  child 
development  courses  in  the  Education  De- 
partment at  UCLA.  I  was,  by  gosh,  going 
to  concentrate  on  the  chlidren — the  woman 
in  charge  of  the  League  thought  I  should 
have  a  kindergarten  credential — and  I 
therefore  purposefully  avoided  the  Arts 
Department. 

Then,  one  night,  I  just  happened  to  drop 
in,  with  a  friend,  at  a  meeting  of  the  ANTA 
(American  National  Theater  Academy).  I 
had  no  idea  I  was  about  to  meet  my  future 
husband  there.  We  were  introduced: 

"Jeanne  Cagney,  this  is  Jack  Morrison — 
Jack  teaches  in  the  Theater  Arts  Depart- 
ment .  .  ." 

He  invited  me  to  a  production  of  "Mid- 
summer Night's  Dream" — and  that  was  the 
start. 

Jack  had  two  children  who  spent  week- 
ends and  summers  with  him.  His  daughter 


Patience  was  ten  when  Jack  and  I  met,  and 
his  son  Charlie  was  five. 

Patience  was  then  going  to  the  Univer- 
sity Elementary  School  at  UCLA,  where 
she  was  surrounded  with  student  training 
teachers  from  the  University,  and  she  very 
definitely  knew  the  meaning  of  a  fraternity 
pin.  After  eight  months,  Patience — losing 
patience — got  awfully  tired  of  the  fact  that 
we  took  so  long  making  up  our  minds  to 
get  married.  About  a  month  before  we  set 
the  date,  Patience  took  Jack's  fraternity 
pin,  one  night,  and  "pinned"  me!  Then  she 
said:  "All  right,  Daddy,  the  rest  is  up  to 
you!" 

Of  course,  we  were  pleased  to  see  that 
the  children  were  in  favor  of  our  marriage. 

But  being  a  stepmother  presents  some 
unique  problems — the  greatest  being  the 
developing  of  the  love  and  affection  of  the 
children,  of  keeping  harmony  and  happi- 
ness in  a  weekend,  summer-holiday  family. 
I  feel  that  a  key  to  this  harmony  is  treat- 
ing youngsters  as  individuals. 

I  almost  started  off  on  the  wrong  foot: 
I  went  shopping  for  some  clothes  for  Char- 
lie. But,  when  I  brought  them  home,  he 
turned  up  his  nose.  I  was  crushed.  I  didn't 
know  if  he  didn't  like  me — or  my  selection. 
The  next  day,  I  asked  Jack: 


"What's  the  matter  with  Charlie,  Jack? 
Do  you  know?" 

Jack  said,  "Maybe  he'd  like  to  pick  out 
his  own  clothes." 

So  he  did!  Charlie  marched  up  to  the 
pants  rack,  pulling  out  a  brown  cord  two 
shades  darker  than  the  ones  I'd  picked  out 
for  him — I  have  to  admit,  the  darker  shade 
was  more  practical.  Then  he  galloped  over 
to  the  shirt  counter,  put  his  finger  on  a 
plaid  flannel — which  he  later  outgrew,  but 
never  wore  out — and  it  matched  the  brown 
cords! 

I've  never  tried  to  impose  my  choice  on 
Charlie  since.  Needless  to  say,  Patience 
also  does  all  of  her  own  shopping — and  is 
a  very  well-dressed  teenager! 

In  conclusion,  let  me  repeat  that,  if  you 
want  to  be  in  fashion,  be  yourself.  This 
means,  of  course,  that  you  must  know 
yourself — you  must  know  what  you  want 
to  be — then,  by  planning,  you  must  take 
steps  in  that  direction.  Finally,  recognizing 
the  individualty  in  the  personalities  of 
others,  is  an  important  part  of  living  (and, 
if  I  may  say  so,  an  important  part  of  fash- 
ion, too).  For  understanding  others,  ac- 
cepting them,  not  being  critical,  will,  I'm 
sure  you'll  find,  fill  your  days  with  smiles. 

And  a  smile  is  always  in  fashion. 


(Continued  from  page  22) 
New  York  is  her  adopted  city,  and  she 
loves  it,  too — but  for  quite  a  while  there 
had  been  this  feeling  of  being  tied  to  one 
place,  and  to  a  routine  which  was  certainly 
pleasant  but  which  she  longed  to  change 
just  a  little. 

Then,  quite  suddenly,  she  found  herself 
a  regular  commuter  by  air  across  the 
3,000  miles  between  the  two  cities — just  as 
if  that  were  the  most  usual  and  ordinary 
thing  to  do.  Spending  one  week  out  of 
every  three  on  the  West  Coast;  the  other 
two  in  the  East.  Traveling  constantly  be- 
tween the  seasonable  cold  and  snows  and 
storms  of  the  Eastern  seaboard  to  the 
contrasting  summer  temperatures  and  sun- 
shine which  prevail  in  Southern  Cali- 
fornia. Also  having  a  bit  of  a  heartache 
each  time  at  leaving  her  husband,  Guy 
Sorel,  and  exchanging  their  cozy  home 
for  a  lonely  hotel  room.  And  sacrificing 
several  other  good  running  parts  on  radio 
because  of  the  new  commuting  schedule. 
"It  was  a  difficult  decision,"  she  says 
now,  looking  back  on  it.  "It  seemed  un- 
thinkable to  me  that  I  should  give  up 
playing  Joan,  being  Joan,  after  all  these 
years.  And  yet,  there  is  this  philosophy 
we  share  as  women — the  conviction  that 
when  you  have  a  happy  marriage  you 
should  cherish  it,  putting  it  first  always, 
above  everything  else.  Joan  Davis  has 
always  done  this.  So  have  I.  So  has  my 
husband,  for  that  matter.  Several  times  in 
our  married  life,  Guy  has  turned  down 
wonderful  opportunities  in  his  work  as  an 
actor  on  the  stage,  in  films  and  on  radio 
and  television,  because  they  might  have 
separated  us  for  too  long  a  time. 

"Now    I    was   the    one    who    was    being 

tempted   to   disrupt   our   lives    together.    I 

began   to   wish   I   did   some   other  kind   of 

work — like    being    a    writer,    for    instance, 

so  it  wouldn't  matter  whether  I  was  in  New 

York  or  Hollywood  or  any  other  place,  as 

long   as  I  carried   my   typewriter   along.   I 

began  to  think,  wistfully,  how  an  author 

had  more  freedom  than  actors."   (Author's 

note:  How  little  you  know  about  us,  Mary 

T    Jane.  We  have  to  stay  on  the  job,  too.  We 

V    get  tied  to  one  place  and  just  work,  work, 

R    work.    And  we  often  get  to  envying  you!) 

Mary  Jane  and  Guy  had  talked  the  whole 

situation  over  when  the  first  news  of  the 

change  came  up.  But  they  have  a  rule  that 


When  a  Star  Marries 

neither  should  ever  interfere  with  the 
other's  professional  life,  and  that  each 
should  make  independent  decisions.  "Talk- 
ing to  Guy  helped  me  to  see  the  pros  and 
cons,  however,"  she  points  out. 

"We  discussed  the  opportunity  the  com- 
muting would  give  me  to  stop  off  occasion- 
ally at  Flagtaff,  Arizona,  to  visit  my  mother 
and  sister  who  live  there,  and  how  much 
that  would  mean  to  me — how  I  could  also 
continue  to  have  visits  with  his  mother 
during  the  six  months  she  spends  in  New 
York  each  year.  He  reminded  me  of  all  the 
hours  he  and  I  would  always  have  together. 
The  frequent  short  separations  seemed 
less  and  less  formidable  as  Guy  reassured 
me  that  the  house  would  be  well  taken 
care  of,  and  so  would  he." 

Actually,  that  part  of  the  problem  had 
not  loomed  so  large  in  Mary  Jane's  mind, 
because  of  Camille  Martin.  Camille  came 
to  this  country  from  Paris  with  Guy's 
family  when  Guy  was  only  four  months 
old,  and  she  has  taken  care  of  him  and 
cooked  for  him  all  his  life.  "There  is  no 
one  quite  like  her  for  either  of  us  now," 
Mary  Jane  says.  "She  is  part  of  our  fam- 
ily, a  superb  cook,  a  devoted  worker.  Be- 
sides, my  husband  is  efficient  around  a 
house,  more  so  than  I  am,  and  a  much  bet- 
ter cook  himself  than  I  have  ever  been. 
But  not  much  of  a  dishwasher — manlike, 
he  leaves  that  part  to  me!" 

Mary  Jane  got  some  wise  advice,  too, 
from  Ethel  Wilson,  who  plays  her  mother 
in  When  A  Girl  Marries.  Ethel  was  one 
of  the  first  in  whom  Mary  Jane  confided 
back  in  1945,  when  she  and  Guy  were  plan- 
ning to  be  married.  Ethel  had  said  to  her 
then,  "There  is  one  thing  you  will  have  to 
remember.  In  our  business,  you  will  be 
called  upon  to  make  decisions  which  many 
other  women  never  have  to  make,  women 
who  are  not  actresses  married  to  men  in 
their  same  profession.  Decisions  that  King 
(her  husband,  King  Calder)  and  I  have 
had  to  make  many  times." 

Ethel  had  told  Mary  Jane  about  their 
rule  never  to  be  separated  for  too  long 
a  time,  no  matter  how  good  the  profes- 
sional opportunity  was  that  presented  it- 
self. How  each  at  times  had  taken  minor 
roles,  in  order  to  be  near  the  other.  How 
she  had  left  some  excellent  radio  programs 
in  order  to  go  on  tour  with  her  husband, 
rather  than  hold  him  back  or  stay  alone  in 


New  York  while  he  traveled  the  country. 

"Because  Ethel  and  King  are  one  of  the 
happiest  couples  I  have  ever  known,"  Mary 
Jane  recalls,  "I  decided  then  that  this  was 
the  way  it  would  be  with  Guy  and  me. 

"There  are  some  things  about  my  de- 
cision that  all  women  will  understand, 
whether  or  not  they  have  careers  of  their 
own  which  might  sometimes  conflict  with 
a  husband's  job,  or  even  if  they  have  no  in- 
terests at  all  outside  the  home.  Many  home 
women  who  read  this  may  have  had  to 
make  similar  decisions  which  involved 
change  and  sacrifice — decisions  to  move  to 
another  city  because  of  better  schooling 
or  better  opportunities  for  the  children, 
or  because  the  husband  was  transferred 
to  different  work,  or  some  such  thing. 
These  women  will  agree  that  any  personal 
sacrifice  we  make  in  order  to  go  on  doing 
something  that  is  close  to  our  hearts — 
whether  it's  playing  a  beloved  role,  as  in 
my  case,  or  making  a  change  for  the  family 
good — can  never  upset  us  too  much,  if 
only  it  does  not  bring  hardship  to  anyone 
we  love. 

"Once  I  had  settled  that  in  my  own  mind, 
there  were  only  such  practical  considera- 
tions as  the  kind  of  wardrobe  I  would  need 
for  my  shuttling  back  and  forth  all  season 
from  winter  to  summer  climates  and  back 
again."  She  smiles  and  adds,  "I  did  worry 
a  little  about  who  would  shush  Lettie,  my 
Cairn  terrier,  when  she  got  to  barking 
noisily  while  Guy  was  trying  to  concen- 
trate on  a  script.  But  he  assured  me  he 
would  quiet  her  down  and  take  her  for 
the  daily  walks  which  are  usually  my  spe- 
cial job. 

"I  settled  the  clothes  problem  by  decid- 
ing to  get  some  thin  suits,  warm  enough 
to  combine  with  a  sweater  and  sturdy  top- 
coat for  boarding  a  plane  in  the  coldest 
New  York  weather,  and  comfortable 
enough  to  arrive  in  Hollywood  on  a  warm, 
sunlit  day.  And  some  comfortable  light- 
weight dresses  for  the  days  when  even  a 
thin  suit  is  too  much.  As  it  is,  I  carry  only 
one  bag  back  and  forth  and  it's  still  a 
struggle  to  decide  what  to  take  and  what 
to  leave  of  my  two-season  wardrobe! 

"Who  am  I,  however,  to  make  a  fuss 
about  such  small  inconveniences?  I  am 
really  having  my  cake  and  eating  it,  too. 
I  have  had  wonderful  visits  with  old 
friends.     My  family  had  moved  to  Holly- 


wood  from  St.  Louis  when  I  was  five,  be- 
cause my  father  had  new  opportunities 
there  as  a  leading  man — my  mother  was  a 
singer,  and  managed  a  theater,  and  Holly- 
wood then  was  a  mecca  for  theatrical  fam- 
ilies such  as  ours.  I  had  been  in  motion 
pictures  as  a  youngster  and  had  left  them 
to  concentrate  on  being  a  schoolgirl — 
then,  after  graduation  from  Hollywood 
high  school,  had  started  in  radio.  It  was 
because  of  radio  that  I  had  gone  to  New 
York  in  the  first  place,  with  my  family's 
blessing,  ambitious  to  do  just  what  I  finally 
achieved — to  play  the  star  role  in  a  daily 
dramatic  serial. 

"I  remind  myself  frequently  of  the  bless- 
ings this  commuting  has  brought  me — the 
joy  of  renewing  these  cherished  friend- 
ships, of  seeing  the  Western  mountains 
and  desert  I  love,  while  still  enjoying  the 
thrill  of  the  changing  seasons  of  the  East, 
the  new  green  and  pastel  flowering  trees 
and  shrubs  in  the  springtime,  the  glorious 
foliage  of  the  fall.  I  remind  myself  that  I 
still  have  my  boat,  always  waiting  in  Long 
Island  Sound,  a  32-foot  cruiser  which 
sleeps  four  people  and  is  really  our  'sum- 
mer home.'  Guy  and  I  first  met,  you  know, 
when  a  mutual  friend  brought  him  to  visit 
on  the  boat,  and  I  sometimes  marvel  that, 
not  caring  too  much  for  being  on  the  water, 
he  was  willing  to  marry  me — boat  and  all — 
and  try  to  work  up  some  of  my  enthusiasm 
for  a  sea-faring  life! 

"There  have  already  been  times  when, 
alone  in  Hollywood,  I  have  been  home- 
sick for  my  husband,  and  I  have  come 
away  from  talking  to  him  on  the  phone 
and  wanted  to  catch  the  first  plane  back. 
There  will  be  other  times  like  that,  I  know. 
Then  I  remind  myself  how  lucky  I  really 
am.  There  will  always  be  our  special  holi- 
days together.  New  Year's  Eve — and  Jan- 
uary 13,  which  is  our  'wedding  anniversary 
day.  Our  birthdays,  or  a  day  very  close  to 
them  which  we  can  celebrate. 


"I  remind  myself  also  how  lucky  I  am 
to  go  on  doing  a  role  I  love,  that  of  Joan 
Davis — remembering  how  close  I  came  to 
mufhng  my  first  chance  to  play  her.  I  had 
been  in  New  York  about  two  years,  doing 
well  in  radio,  but  still  waiting  for  a  star- 
ring role  in  a  dramatic  serial.  The  great 
day  came,  and  I  felt  completely  ready  for 
it — although,  of  course,  a  little  scared  now 
that  the  moment  had  arrived.  I  came  into 
the  studio  and  sat  quietly  in  one  of  those 
metal  folding  chairs,  unbuttoning  my  jacket 
because  the  room  was  warm.  Outwardly 
calm,  I  was  alert  for  my  cue,  and  I  got 
ready  to  stand  up  at  the  microphone  to 
speak  my  first  line — when  I  realized  that 
the  buckle  of  my  jacket  was  caught  firm- 
ly in  the  metal  frame  of  the  chair! 

"Everyone  in  the  control  room  stood  up 
and  looked  apprehensive  as  I  sat  there, 
rooted  to  the  spot.  Fortunately,  someone 
on  the  set  saw  my  dilemma  and  was  quick- 
thinking  enough  to  pull  me  out  of  my  coat 
— instead  of  waiting  to  pry  the  buckle  loose 
— and  to  help  me  to  my  feet.  In  the  excite- 
ment I  dropped  my  script,  and  retrieved 
it  just  as  I  had  to  speak  my  first  word. 
Did  I  say  it  was  luck?  I  am  sure  it  was 
more  than  that — it  was  my  guardian  angel 
watching  out  for  me!" 

Perhaps.  You  get  the  impression,  how- 
ever, that  Mary  Jane  Higby  is  a  girl  who 
can  meet  any  situation  with  courage  and 
resourcefulness  and  that,  somehow  or 
other,  she  would  have  pulled  herself  loose 
from  the  unfortunate  buckle  and  faced  that 
microphone  at  the  right  moment,  no  mat- 
ter what.  You  get  the  impression  that,  like 
Joan  Davis,  the  girl  she  portrays,  she  is 
warmhearted  and  understanding  enough 
to  meet  any  unexpected  change  in  her 
life — such  as  this  newest  one,  which  in- 
cludes the  fun  and  adventure  of  being  a 
"commuting  actress"  and — at  the  same 
time — the  abiding  peace  and  joy  of  being 
a  loved  and  loving  wife. 


Kit  Carson  Finds  His  Mate 


(Continued  from  page  58) 

"I've  heard  that  song  before,"  said  Bill. 
"I'll  bet  you  a  dinner  you're  back  together 
in  three  weeks!" 

Barbara  started  into  the  coach's  office, 
saying  over  her  shoulder,  "I'll  take  that  bet, 
but  I  think  I  should  forewarn  you,  I'm  a 
big  eater!" 

Three  weeks  later,  Bill,  a  happy  loser, 
took  Barbara  to  dinner.  For  a  period  of 
seven  months,  the  dinners  became  a  week- 
ly thing.  However,  they  both  pleaded  dis- 
interest in  one  another. 

Barbara's  letters  home  illustrated  her 
"disinterest."  She  had  been  in  the  habit  of 
writing  her  mother  glowing  descriptions  of 
the  boys  she  went  out  with.  Many  times 
her  letters  began:  "This  is  it!  I've  met  the 
man  for  me!" 

But,  in  Bill's  case,  she  wrote:  "Don't 
worry,  Mother,  this  isn't  it!  He's  just  a 
nice  guy." 

And  Bill  told  all  of  his  friends,  "Oh,  no— 
we're  not  interested  in  each  other  that 
way.  She's  just  a  nice  kid." 

Then  Barbara  made  a  brief  trip  home  to 
Rockford,  Illinois,  to  visit  her  parents. 
Wednesday,  their  usual  dinner  date,  was 
Barbara's  first  evening  on  the  train.  As 
she  sat  staring  at  the  passing  telephone 
poles,  they  seemed  like  a  giant  picket  fence 
racing  to  separate  her  from  Bill.  The 
longer  she  watched,  the  longer  her  face 
grew.  A  passing  porter  asked,  "Anything 
wrong,  ma'am?" 

"Oh,  no-o-o,"  said  Barbara,  sad-eyed, 
gulping  back  the  tears.  It  was  the  first 
time  she  realized  she  was  in  love,  how 
much  in  love  with  Bill. 

Bill  missed  Barbara,  too.  When  she  re- 


turned home  from  Rockford,  he  was  wait- 
ing for  her  on  the  station  platform. 

"Oh,  Bill!"  she  cried,  falling  happily  into 
his  arms.  With  this,  the  first  chapter  of 
their  life,  "Courtship,"  was  under  way. 

The  second  chapter  began  a  year  later 
with  their  decision  to  marry.  One  day  after 
work,  they  were  sitting  in  Bill's  car  in 
front  of  the  Hollywood  Studio  Club,  where 
Barbara   lived,   discussing   wedding   plans. 

"I'd  like  to  go  home  to  Rockford,"  said 
Barbara,  "and  be  married  in  the  little 
stone  church  where  all  of  my  friends  have 
been  married." 

"A  small  wedding  sounds  good  to  me, 
too,"  said  Bill. 

"Yes,  it  would  be  sweet — our  families, 
the  little  church,  and  a  few  friends." 

But  Barbara  and  Bill  had  to  pay  the 
price  of  fame.  The  day  of  the  wedding, 
fourteen  photographers  arrived  to  take 
pictures  of  the  bride  and  groom  and  the 
two  hundred  people  who  filled  the  church. 

Barbara  and  Bill  now  laugh  about  their 
honeymoon.  It  was  one  of  the  fastest- 
moving  chapters  in  their  life  together. 
When  they  left  Hollywood,  RKO  gave  them 
two  months  off.  Bill,  with  the  help  of  the 
AAA,  mapped  out  a  6500-mile  car  tour. 
The  trip  was  planned  to  hit  all  scenic  spots 
from  New  York  to  Miami  and  back  to 
Hollywood. 

The  day  they  were  to  start  their  trip, 
Barbara  and  Bill  received  a  wire  from  the 
studio.  "Picture  upcoming.  Please  report 
back  to  Hollywood  within  next  eight  days!" 

Barbara  looked  at  Bill.  "Eight  days,"  she 
said.   "There  goes  our  honeymoon." 

Bill  looked  at  Barbara.  "Oh,  no  it 
doesn't,"   he   said.   "We're   going  to   make 


Follow  this 
Cold  Comfort  Treatment 

A  Alka-Seltzer  for  aches, 
pains,  feverish  feeling. 

D  Be  careful.  Avoid  drafts, 
get  more  rest. 

Q  Comfort  irritated  throat 
—  gargle  with  Alka- 
Seltzer. 

AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES 


MILES  LABORATORIES.  INC.,  ELKHART.  IND. 


FREE!      FREE! 


Photo  of  Your  Favorite 

MOVIE  STAR 


FREE!  Tells  how  to  gel  HOME  ADDRESSES,  BIRTHDAYS, 
and  PHOTOS  of  STARS  HOMES.  Send  only  15(  for 
handling  (3  photos  tor  25c  .  Rush  to: 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STAR  CENTER 

Box  2309.  0ePl-  H  Hollywood  28.  California 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 


67 


Size  8  x  10  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bust 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

Send  A/oMoney  3f0rsi 

Jnst  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlarge: 

guaranteed  fadeless. on  beautiful  double- weight 

portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  pit 

postage — or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  posi 

age.  Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios.  544  S.  Main.  Dept.  35- A,  Princeton,  Illinois 


eight   j  y       % 

plus     ^X :__'■"  __, 


—because  you  lack  a 
HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA 

•  You  can  qualify  for  an  American  School 
Diploma  in  spare  time  at  home!  If  you  have 
left  school,  write  or  mail  coupon  for  FREE 
booklet  that  tells  how.  No  obligation  of  any 
kind. 
OUR  58TH  YEAR 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  V1S3 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois 

Please  send  FREE  High  School  booklet. 


Name 

Address 

City  &  State 

Canadian  Residents:  Complete  Canadian  Course  Available. 
Write  American  School.  1610  Sherbrooae  St.  West.  Montreal. 


75 


every  inch  of  that  trip  just  as  we  planned." 
And  they   did:    6500  miles   in   eight   days! 

Barbara  wanted  to  highlight  her  honey- 
moon with  pictures.  She  took  a  camera  and 
twenty -five  rolls  of  film.  During  their 
jack-rabbit  hop  across  the  country,  they 
made  a  hundred  additional  stops  for  snap- 
shots of  the  places  they  had  planned  to  see 
and  things  they  had  hoped  to  do.  At  each 
picturesque  spot,  Barbara  and  Bill,  camera 
in  hand,  each  popped  in  and  out  of  their 
car  much  like  a  jack-in-the-box. 

At  the  end  of  the  eighth  day,  they  ar- 
rived home,  beat  and  bedraggled,  but 
proudly  trailing  their  camera  behind  them. 

"Well,"  said  Barbara,  "at  least  we  have 
pictures  to  remind  us  of  the  honeymoon 
we  missed." 

"Yes,"  said  Bill,  "three  hundred  of 
them." 

But  the  best-laid  plans  of  Barbara  and 
Bill  Williams  sometimes  went  wrong.  The 
camera  had  a  leak  in  the  shutter — not  one 
of  the  pictures  came  out.  Says  Barbara, 
"It  was  one  of  the  biggest  disappointments 
of  my  life." 

The  third  chapter  in  the  Williams'  life 
should  be  entitled  "Houses."  When  they 
returned  from  their  hasty  honeymoon,  they 
moved  into  a  small  two-bedroom  house  in 
the  San  Fernando  Valley.  Like  all  newly- 
wed  couples,  Barbara  and  Bill  dreamed  of 
a  home  they  wanted  to  build  themselves. 

But  it  takes  money  to  build,  and  at  that 
time  (1946)  Bill's  future  was  uncertain.  As 
young-marrieds,  he  and  Barbara  didn't 
want  to  start  their  life  together  in  debt. 
Then  Barbara  learned  she  was  pregnant. 
With  the  expense  of  a  baby  facing  them, 
their  dreams  of  a  home  had  to  wait. 

Jody  was  born  in  July,  1947.  The  three 
of  them  lived  in  comparative  comfort  in 
their  two-bedroom  home  for  the  next  three 
years.  During  this  time,  Barbara  and  Bill 
both  free-lanced,  working  and  saving  as 
much  money  as  possible  toward  their 
dreamed-of  new  home.  When  Barbara 
learned  that  she  was  expecting  again,  she 
and  Bill  knew  they  would  have  to  have 
more  room. 

They  took  their  courage  in  their  hands 
and  bought  a  lot,  a  half- acre  on  a  corner 
near  a  public  school.  By  the  time  young 
Bill  arrived,  the  house  was  completed — but 
their  funds  were  depleted.  When  the  four 
of  them  moved  in,  there  was  no  front  lawn, 
no  back  yard,  and  very  little  furniture. 

But  the  ingenuity  of  the  Williamses  al- 
most surpasses  even  their  good  looks. 
Barbara  took  charge  of  the  interior,  while 
Bill  tackled  the  exterior.  From  their  first 
home  they  brought  with  them  an  eight- 
dollar  chair  and  a  ten-dollar  couch  which 
Barbara  re-covered.  She  also  made  gray 
and    yellow    curtains,    beige    drapes    and 


chartreuse  bedspreads.  Bill,  in  turn,  put  in 
lawns  front  and  back,  leaving  room  for  a 
future  pool  and  the  wing  they  hoped  to 
add  when  their  bank  book  was  better 
padded. 

Barbara  and  Bill's  house  and  Bill's  ca- 
reer as  Kit  Carson  developed  about  the 
same  time.  "It  was  one  of  the  longest  chap- 
ters in  our  life,"  says  Barbara,  "the  kind 
you  think  you'll  never  get  through.  We 
knew  what  we  wanted  in  our  house,  but 
at  first  the  living  room  looked  so  bare!  In 
my  mind's  eye.  I  imagined  what  it  would 
be  like  when  filled  with  furniture.  But  I 
had  to  learn  that  you  can't  sit  on  a 
mirage." 

For  a  few  brief  months  when  Bill  first 
started  The  Adventures  Of  Kit  Carson  for 
Coca-Cola,  he  and  Barbara  felt  as  bare  at 
heart  as  their  living  room  was  bare  of 
furniture.  One  of  Bill's  friends  says,  "Kit 
Carson  was  a  gamble  for  Bill.  He'd  rarely 
played  cowboy  parts.  TV  was  new  to  him. 
And  he  had  to  compete  with  such  already 
established  stars  as  Roy  Rogers  and  Gene 
Autry." 

But  the  Williamses  were  not  apprehen- 
sive for  long.  Kit  Carson  was  an  immedi- 
ate success.  Because  of  a  minimum  of  vio- 
lence and  a  devotion  to  historical  fact,  the 
program  has  been  recommended  by  church 
groups  and  the  PTA. 

Bill  is  pleased  with  this  support.  Ever 
since  he  was  a  kid  living  in  the  hard  heart 
of  Brooklyn,  he's  wanted  to  combat  delin- 
quency and  juvenile  problems.  As  plain 
"Bill  Williams,"  he's  just  another  voice. 
But,  as  TV's  clean-living  Kit  Carson,  he's 
the  voice  of  an  army  of  10,000,000.  On  tele- 
vision, he  can  reach  more  kids  in  a  week 
than  he  could  in  a  year — and  they  are  in- 
fluenced by  what  he  has  to  say. 

As  an  example  of  Bill's  influence  with 
youngsters,  take  a  recent  junior  high 
school  contest.  The  local  board  of  educa- 
tion wanted  to  name  a  new  school.  The 
winner — the  name  the  children  mentioned 
most  frequently — Kit  Carson. 

Bill  loves  children,  and  an  entire  book 
could  be  written  about  his  and  Barbara's. 
As  Barbara  has  said,  "When  children  ar- 
rive, the  plot  grows.  You  could  devote  a 
chapter  just  to  the  selection  of  their 
names." 

With  Jody,  their  first-born,  they  had 
agreed  to  name  her  Johanna  (after  Bill's 
mother)  and  Willa  (after  Barb's  mother). 
Then,  at  the  hospital,  just  before  signing 
the  certificate,  Bill  insisted  they  add 
"Barbara." 

"She's  got  two  names  already!"  said 
Barbara.  "What's  she  need  a  third  one 
for?" 

"For  you!"  said  Bill,  and  signed,  "Bar- 
bara   Johanna    Willa   Katt"    (Katt    is   the 


We  found  the  secret 
of  happiness! 

say  so  many  people  who  listen  to  radio's  "My  True  1 

Story."  For  this  moving  dramatic  program  deals 
with  the  emotional  problems  we  face  in  our  every- 
day lives.  Each  heartfelt  story  is  taken  right  from 
the  files  of  "True  Story  Magazine,"  and  the  people 
involved  are  as  real  as  your  neighbors,  your  friends, 
your  own  family.  And  the  vital  problems  that  are  solved 
might  very  well  be  the  ones  that  are  keeping  you  from 
finding  peace  and  contentment. 

TUNE   IN 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

For  thrilling  reading  don't  miss  "MY  CHILDREN  WISHED  ME  DEAD."  They  blamed  their 
mother  (or  all  their  sins-ln  January  TRUE  STORY  MAGAZINE  at  newsstands  now. 


76 


Williamses'  legal  surname). 

Before  the  children  were  born,  Barbara 
swore  she  would  never  resort  to  baby  talk. 
She  and  Bill  were  happy  when  their  sec- 
ond child  was  born  a  boy.  "Of  course,  we 
named  him  William  Junior  after  his  father. 
William  is  a  nice  adult-sounding  name  and 
I  was  pleased.  Resolutions,  I  suppose,  were 
made  to  be  broken.  Today,  I  find  myself 
calling  him  Billy  Boy— and  Daddy  Bill!" 

When  Barbara  was  in  the  hospital  with 
their  third  child,  she  determined  they  were 
not  going  to  name  this  baby  after  anyone. 
The  night  before  she  signed  the  birth  cer- 
tificate, she  lay  awake  thinking  of  a  name. 
When  Bill  came  to  visit,  she  had  one  ready. 

"By  the  way,"  she  said,  "is  it  okay  if  I 
fill  in  the  certificate  with  'Lauralee?' " 

There  was  a  brief  silence  during  which 
Bill  blinked  his  eyes  in  surprise.  Then  he 
said,  "Well  .  .  .  yes." 

"Is  something  wrong?"  asked  Barbara, 
ready  to  bulldoze  through  her  nomination. 

"No  ...  no,  it's  okay,  I  guess,"  said  Bill, 
not  too  enthusiastically. 

"Well,"  said  Barbara,  wanting  to  be  fair, 
"what  do  you  want  to  call  her?" 

"Juanita — after  your  sister,"  said  Bill 
with  a  hopeful  look. 

That's  what  Barbara  had  vowed  she 
wouldn't  do.  Following  a  few  seconds  of 
awkward  silence.  Bill  went  home. 

That  night  Barbara  called  home  to  wish 
Jody  and  Billy  good  night.  "By  the  way," 
she  said,  "your  new  sister's  name  is  Laura- 
lee." Barbara  swears  Jody's  reply  was, 
"Ugh." 

Upset  with  this  reaction,  Barbara  spent 
another  night  writing  names.  The  next 
morning  she  still  wanted  Lauralee  and  she 
knew  Bill  wasn't  about  to  change  his  vote 
for  Juanita;  so  she  signed  the  certificate, 
"Juanita  Lauralee." 

"My  first  week  home  I  told  all  of  our 
friends  that  the  baby's  name  was  Lauralee. 
I  heard  Bill  on  the  phone  telling  others  it 
was  Juanita.  When  the  two  names  first  got 
around,  our  friends  must  have  thought 
we'd  had  twins!" 

Barbara  thought  a  nickname  would  solve 
the  problem.  She  listened  to  the  children, 
hoping  she  could  pick  one  up.  But  they  re- 
ferred to  the  baby  as  "Boo,"  "Kitten,"  and 
"It,"  never  repeating  themselves. 

Barbara,  in  turn,  called  the  infant  her 
"doll  baby."  Her  visiting  nephew  couldn't 
say  "doll  baby."  He  could  only  say, 
"Da'by."  "Da'by"  is  the  name  that's  stayed. 

"Da'by"  was  born  December  22,  1953. 
Bill  visited  Barbara  in  the  hospital  on 
Christmas  Eve.  After  he'd  left,  Barbara  was 
feeling  lonely  and  sorry  for  herself.  She 
clutched  the  little  baby  to  her  breast,  say- 
ing, "Well,  there's  no  tree  and  no  presents. 
But  I've  got  you  and  you've  got  me,  and 
we  can  celebrate  Christmas  together." 

When  Barbara  went  home  a  few  days 
later,  she  found  the  tree  and  gifts  waiting 
for  her.  She  felt  happy  that  the  children 
had  wanted  to  share  Christmas  with  her. 
"So  we  had  a  second  Christmas,"  she  says. 
Then,  looking  at  "Da'by,"  she  continues,  "I 
only  hope  the  children  don't  expect  this 
every  year!" 

Today  Barbara  and  Bill's  life  still  reads 
like  a  happy  novel.  Before  "Da'by"  arrived, 
Bill  added  the  wing  he'd  left  room  for.  Now 
Barbara  says  about  the  house,  "As  far  as 
I'm  concerned,  this  is  home  for  the  rest  of 
our  lives!"  That  closes  the  chapter  on 
houses. 

The  chapter  on  children,  though,  has  just 
begun.  "Bill  is  a  wonderful  father,"  says 
Barbara.  "He's  so  gentle.  Of  course,  we 
won't  know  how  successful  we've  been  as 
parents  until  the  youngsters  are  grown. 
It's  a  long  way  till  that  chapter's  closed." 

Until  then  there's  only  one  thing  missing 
to  complete  Barbara  and  Bill's  "book  of 
marriage."  "That's  the  chapter  on  honey- 
moons," says  Barbara.  "Someday  soon, 
we'll  go  back  and  do  that  one  up  right!" 


We're  Really  Living! 


(Continued  from  page  28) 
And  every  night  I  was  bathed  in  the  glow 
of  the  footlights,  had  my  ego  buoyed  up 
as    it    rode    the    crowd's    warm    wave    of 
applause. 

But  what  was  there  to  look  forward  to 
when  the  theater  lights  went  off?  What 
did  I  do  then?  For  months  at  a  time  I  was 
three  thousand  miles  away  from  my  wife, 
children,  and  home;  after  the  show,  I  had 
nothing  except  bare  hotel  room  walls,  a 
lonely  dinner  in  a  restaurant — and,  the 
next  night,  another  taxi  to  the  theater. 

That  was  the  routine  for  years.  There 
was  Reno,  New  Orleans,  Washington,  New 
York;  each  a  lonely  carbon  copy  of  the 
other  city.  True,  every  so  many  months, 
I  might  be  lucky  enough  to  find  myself 
playing  in  Hollywood,  my  own  home  town 
— or  I  might  just  find  two  weeks  between 
shows  to  race  to  the  West  Coast,  laugh  and 
play  with  my  family  for  ten  short  days,  and 
race  back  to  the  show  again. 

But  was  this  living?  No,  it  wasn't.  It 
wasn't  even  existing.  I  might  as  well  have 
been  dead;  and  in  the  eyes  of  my  family 
I  was  dead — for,  in  the  days  and  months 
I  was  away  from  home,  they  had  learned 
to  live  without  me!  That  flashing  neon 
sign  may  have  announced  to  the  world 
in  general  that  here  was  a  real,  live  and 
kicking  Kenny  Baker.  But  the  time  came 
when  I  realized  it  was  simply  a  blinking, 
animated,  neon  headstone.  Following  me 
from  city  to  city,  that  sign  had  become  my 
ambulating  epitaph. 

So  that  night,  about  six  years  ago,  I 
decided  to  make  it  read:  "Kenny  Baker, 
Appearing  Nightly  Where  He  Belongs — 
in  his  own  living  room  with  his  wife  and 
three  growing  kids." 

And,  if  someone  were  to  ask  me  today 
what  living  really  is,  I  think  I  could  tell 
them:  It's  a  trailer  vacation  in  the  great 
North  Woods;  it's  being  a  father  to  your 
sons — yes,  and  even  being  a  boy  again 
with  them;  it's  evenings  with  a  living  room 
full  of  family;  afternoons  encouraging  both 
sons  and  daughter  with  their  problems; 
and  it's  a  morning  hymn  around  the  break- 
fast table.     That's  really  living. 

But  all  wasn't  sweetness  and  light  when 
I  gave  up  the  roadshow  footlights  for  my 
family.  When  I  came  home  to  play  the 
role  of  father  to  my  children,  I  received 
a  shock:  Since  they  were  my  children,  I 
thought  I  could  give  them  all  kinds  of 
advice  and  direction  and,  just  by  putting 
in  the  time,  everything  would  turn  out 
okay. 

Unfortunately,  I  was  wrong.  When  my 
son,  Kenny,  Jr.,  was  in  high  school,  I  tried 
to  point  him  in  a  certain  direction.  He 
was  taking  language  courses,  for  example, 
such  as  Latin  and  French,  and  I  thought 
he  was  capable  of  getting  better  grades 
than  he  showed. 

Poor  Kenny,  Jr.  was  as  unhappy  as  we 
were.  He  wasn't  interested  in  Latin  or 
French,  and  hence  didn't  put  any  time  in 
on  them.  But,  when  it  came  to  automobile 
mechanics,  working  on  his  car,  or  playing 
on  the  football  field  or  in  the  swimming 
pool,  that  was  something  else  again. 

So  what  did  we  do  with  Kenny,  Jr.'s 
problem?  We  did  the  only  thing  we  knew 
how:  We  waited  and  we  prayed — no  pres- 
sure, nothing.  We  simply  recognized  that 
Kenny  was  a  capable  boy,  that  we  weren't 
anything  superior  in  the  way  of  parents 
and  that,  if  we  gave  our  problem  over  to 
the  Power  from  which  all  intelligence 
stems,  the  answer  would  be  forthcoming. 

And  the  answer  did  come:  Somehow, 
someone  suggested  that  Kenny  take  a 
series  of  aptitude  and  interest  tests.  I'd 
never  heard  of  them  but,  in  our  experi- 
ence,  they   have   proven   themselves   both 


scientific  and  worthwhile.  The  tests  give 
a  series  of  scores  in  different  learning  areas 
— for  example,  in  language,  mechanical, 
mathematical  and  reasoning  abilities.  We 
learned  that  Kenny  was  a  capable  boy  (as 
we  had  confidently  expected  all  along) ,  but 
his  best  area  was  the  mechanical-engi- 
neering field,  not  in  languages! 

What  we  had  been  doing  was  to  force 
our  young  man  into  an  area  that  didn't 
fit  him.  As  a  result,  this  force  was  de- 
structive to  his  happiness — it  made  him 
feel  inferior,  a  little  rebellious. 

But,  as  a  result  of  the  abilities  tests,  to- 
day he  is  doing  well  as  an  engineering 
student  at  the  University  of  Southern 
California.  He  has  been  selecting  his  own 
courses,  he  has  been  happier  doing  it,  and 
has  been  getting  good  grades.  He's  even 
in  the  Naval  ROTC — a  decision  he  made. 

t  ortunately  for  our  younger  children — 
Susie,  16,  and  Johnny,  12 — we  learned 
about  our  mistakes  through  our  older  boy, 
Kenny,  Jr.  We  have  discovered,  for  in- 
stance, that,  while  both  youngsters  enjoy 
music,  they  don't  have  the  inclinations 
toward  it  that  I  had  at  their  age.  So  there 
has  been  no  urging  on  our  part  for  one  of 
them  to  "carry  on  the  family  name"  in 
music. 

They  like  music,  yes.  But  they  like  other 
things  better.  Johnny,  for  example,  has 
already  shown  the  same  aptitude  and  abil- 
ities toward  structural  engineering  in 
which  Kenney,  Jr.  had  won  his  success 
Sure,  he  plays  the  accordion  and  he  studies 
it,  too.  But  this  is  more  of  a  joyful  escape 
for  him,  something  he  likes  to  do  once  in 
a  while.  It's  not  the  thing  he  wants  for  a 
vocation,  and  we  are  not  foolish  enough  to 
push  him  in  that  direction. 

We  learn  from  experience,  and  both 
Geraldyne  and  I  learned  from  Kenny,  Jr. 
that  children  can't  be  pushed.  This  has 
helped  us  with  Susie  and  Johnny.  As  a 
result,  Johnny  is  a  happy  twelve-year-old 
— actually,  a  happy  young  man.  It's  a 
pleasure  to  watch  him  grow,  to  develop. 
He  has  his  studies,  and  they  are  at  such 
a  level  that  I  can  help  him  with  them. 
We  sing  duets  together;  we  go  to  ball 
games;  we  fish  and  trave.1  in  the  trailer. 
In  short,  we  have  a  close  father-son  re- 
lationship— again,  this  is  really  living! 

And  Susie,  at  sixteen,  is  quite  a  young 
lady  now.  She  enjoys  music,  too,  plays  the 
piano  well,  but  she  has  no  wish  to  become 
an  entertainer.  Her  main  ambition  is  to 
be  a  successful  mother  and  housewife. 
She's  learning  to  cook  and  keep  house. 
She  and  Geraldyne  are  like  two  sisters 
with  the  chores  around  this  place,  and 
Susie  is  doing  a  good  job  learning  the 
household  skills. 

So  this  is  the  family  I  came  home  to, 
six  years  ago.  In  that  time  I've  watched 
the  boys  grow  into  young  manhood,  and 
my  daughter  become  a  young  woman. 
Every  summer  of  those  six  years  we  spent 
traveling  together  in  our  trailer  to  the 
national  parks  on  our  West  Coast.  Believe 
me,  the  time  we've  spent  in  Sequoia  or 
the  Big  Sur,  surrounded  by  the  giant  red- 
wood trees,  listening  to  the  peaceful  songs 
of  the  forest,  have  been  moments  when  we 
knew  we  were  near  our  God.  And  when 
a  family  shares  this  experience,  I  call  that 
really  living. 

But  some  may  ask  the  question:  Did  I 
retire  from  the  entertainment  world  when 
I  came  back  to  Hollywood  and  my  family? 
Of  course  not.  I  had  worked  in  and  around 
Hollywood  for  years  before  taking  to  the 
road — in  fact,  the  first  several  years  of  my 
professional  career  were  spent  making 
auditions  in  the  Los  Angeles  area. 

I  was  born  in  California;  so  was  my  wife, 
Geraldyne.  We  went  to  Long  Beach  Junior 


Make  This 

Anne  Fogarty 

Original 

and    be   the 

Best  Dressed  Girl 

In    Town 


Let  these  famous 
American  Designers 
help  you  be  the  best 
dressed  girl  in  town 
— if  you  can  sew: — 


ameUat'l  dtlcencl'J 
PATTERN 


ANNE  FOGARTY 


Ceil  Chapman — Claire  McCardell — Tina 
Leser — Jo  Copeland — Philip  Mangone — 
Monte  Sano — Herbert  Sondheim — Anne 
Fogarty — Brigance — David  Goodstei n — 
Joset  Walker — Joseph  Halpert — Vera 
Maxwell — Toni  Owen — Fira  Benenson — 
Harvey  Berin — Frank  Gallant — Mollie 
Parnis — Clare  Potter. 

Patterns  of  136  original  designs  by 
these  famous   names   are   now   available. 

To  see  this  entire  collection  send  50c 
for  our  100-page  pattern  booklet  XI. 


World   Wide,  Dept.   WG-1-55 
63  Central  Avenue 
Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send    me    100-page    pattern    booklet    XI. 
enclose  50c. 


NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE. 


DANCING  SHOES-SUPPLIES 

Tap,  Toe,  Ballet,  Acrobatic  Shoes;  Tutus, 
Leotards,  Nylon  &  Lastex  mesh  Opera  Hose  & 
Tights,  Practice  costumes,  Theatrical  fabrics. 
Elastic  Leotard  with  Nylon  Tulle  Tutu.  Ideal 
Recital  Costume,  Pastel  Shades.  Black  &  Red 
Child's,  2  to  12,  S3. 95;  Adults,  Sm.,  Med., 
Lg;.    $4.75.    Like  picture,    add  25c  for  postage. 

BATON    —    DRUM    CORPS    SUPPLIES 
Batons,    Majorette    boots.    Skirts,    Drums,    Boot 
tops.   Plumes,    Feather   stickups. 

SKATING    SKIRTS   —    Roller   or    Ice. 

24-page    catalog    10c    (applied    to    purchase) 

QUINCON    SUPPLIES 

7    Foster   Street  Quincy   69,    Mass. 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 

A  few  drops  of  OTJTGRO®  bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  ingrown  nail.  OUTGRO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OUTGRO  is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain  —  Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  stop 
bleeding  — without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  pain  was  relieved 
promptly.  And,  while  gently  relieving  pain, 
actual   reduction    (shrinkage)    took   place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  — results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The    secret   is    a   new   healing   substance        T 
(Bio-Dyne®)— discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute.  v 

Now  this  new  healing  substance  is  offered        * 
in    ointment    form    under    the    name    of 
Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  stores 
—money  back  guarantee.  "Trade  M»rk 

77 


College  together;  she  sat  across  the  aisle 
from  me  in  class.  I  went  on  a  blind  date 
one  night  with  a  pal  of  mine,  and  Ger- 
aldyne,  the  pretty  girl  I'd  been  watching 
for  weeks,  showed  up  as  my  date! 

I  remember  that  first  date:  My  pal  and  I 
were  in  a  school  minstrel  show,  and  our 
girls  were  to  come  along  to  help  us  put 
on  make-up.  Geraldyne  spent  the  early 
part  of  the  evening  putting  black  cork  on 
my  face,  so  I  could  go  out  and  sing,  "Look 
down,  look  down,  that  lonesome  road  .  .  ." 
which,  I  might  add,  we've  gone  down  to- 
gether now  for  twenty-one  years — not  all 
of  them   "lonesome"! 

Those  audition  years  were  finally  topped 
with  my  first  big  break  around  1932.  I 
won  a  contest  sponsored  by  Texaco  which 
gave  me  a  guest  spot  with  Eddie  Duchin 
at  the  Cocoanut  Grove.  This  led  to  the 
Jack  Benny  Jello  show  (I  still  have  a  box 
with  the  signatures  of  all  the  cast  on  it) , 
then  the  Texaco  Star  Theater  and  more 
radio  shows,  then  motion  pictures — "The 
Mikado,"  "Hit  Parade,"  "The  Harvey  Girls" 
— and,  finally,  the  Broadway  production  of 
"One  Touch  of  Venus,"  with  Mary  Martin 
and  John  Boles. 

For  some  time,  while  doing  the  road 
shows,  I  had  been  harboring  the  desire  to 


record  an  album  of  sacred  music — hymns 
that  people  loved.  So,  when  I  came  back 
to  Hollywood,  this  was  the  first  thing  I 
turned  to. 

The  results  of  these  recordings  were 
beyond  all  expectations:  I  heard  from  peo- 
ple all  over  the  world — Saudi  Arabia,  New 
Guinea,  Africa  and  Iceland.  One  woman 
sent  some  of  the  records  to  a  deaf  friend 
of  hers  in  Indonesia.  Later,  that  woman 
came  to  this  country  and  visited  us  here  at 
home.  She  hadn't  heard  a  sound  in  years; 
but  she  went  into  the  den,  put  her  hands 
on  the  record  machine,  and  nodding  her 
head  she  said,  "Beautiful — most  beautiful 
music  I've  ever  heard." 

That  was  one  of  the  most  satisfying  ex- 
periences I've  ever  had. 

(Editor's  note:  It  is  only  fair  to  mention 
that  eight  albums  of  sacred  songs  have 
been  made  under  Kenny  Baker's  Ken-Art 
label.  Most  of  the  material  has  been  turned 
over  to  the  Christian  Science  Publishing 
Society  for  distribution.  It  was  most  re- 
warding to  Kenny  to  hear  that  Army  gen- 
erals, chaplains  throughout  the  Armed 
Services,  and  hospitals  all  over,  have  re- 
quested records  of  his  sacred  songs.  And 
it  is  gratifying,  too,  for  him  to  hear — as 
he    does    daily — from    these    organizations 


expressing  their  appreciation  for  having 
Kenny  Baker  as  their  church  soloist,  in 
cases  where  groups  could  not  afford  to  have 
a  soloist  as  part  of  their  church  services.) 

My  experience  with  the  sacred  records 
had  a  sobering  influence  on  my  thinking 
— especially  in  regard  to  the  field  of  enter- 
tainment. You  know,  with  as  much  prac- 
tice as  I've  had,  it  was  easy  to  go  out  on 
a  stage,  to  put  on  a  show  that  would  make 
people  laugh.  And  this  is  definitely  one 
important  aspect  of  entertainment.  But  the 
records  have  helped  show  me  that  there 
is  something  more  than  mere  entertain- 
ment. It's  from  this  idea  that  our  Mutual 
radio  program,  The  Kenny  Baker  Show, 
arose.  Besides  the  songs,  the  wit,  wisdom, 
and  helpful  hints,  we've  hoped  that  there 
would  also  be  something  to  encourage 
and  inspire  you,  our  listeners.  That's  the 
"little  more"  we'd  like  to  leave  with  you. 

Having  left  the  roadshow  footlights,  I'd 
like  to  think  now  I've  been  a  successful 
father  in  those  six  years.  I  know  I've  been 
a  much  happier  man.  I'd  also  like  to  think 
I've  been  successful  in  this  final  stage  of 
my  career.  So,  if  you  find  you  enjoy  our 
program  whenever  you  hear  it,  we  hope 
you'll  let  us  know.  Your  reply  will  cer- 
tainly assure  us  that  we  are  really  living! 


(Continued  from  page  54) 

Ask  him  that  question  today,  and  the  an- 
swer is  a  story  in  itself. 

They  say  that,  behind  every  achieve- 
ment, there  lies  a  dream.  And,  no  matter 
how  great  the  achievement,  the  dream  is 
even  greater — deeper  and  more  meaningful 
— for,  behind  the  dream,  is  the  man.  .  .  . 

Robert  Q.  Lewis  paused  outside  CBS- 
TV's  Studio  Sixty  in  uptown  Manhattan, 
signed  autographs  and  kidded  with  the 
waiting  crowd.  A  car  drew  up,  manned  by 
his  valet-chauffeur,  Jack.  Bob's  briefcase 
and  extra  clothes  were  tossed  in,  helter- 
skelter.  Jack  hopped  in  beside  them,  Bob 
slid  behind  the  wheel,  and  the  crowd 
surged  forward,  calling  their  goodbyes. 

One  moment,  everything  was  chaos.  Sixty 
seconds  later,  Bob  was  gliding  through  the 
comparative  calm  of  New  York  traffic.  He 
smiled,  remembering  the  smiling  faces  he 
had  just  left  behind.  Entering  or  leaving 
the  studios  was  always  something  of  a 
marathon.  But,  as  Bob  remarked,  half  to 
himself,  "If  they  ever  stop  doing  that,  it'll 
scare  me  sick!" 

The  smile  and  the  thought  were  still 
with  him,  as  he  entered  the  combination 
office  and  rumpus  room  on  the  second  floor 
of  his  apartment.  Years  of  hard  work  had 
gone  into  this  moment  .  .  .  years  in  which 
he  substituted  for  Arthur  Godfrey,  filled 
in  wherever  there  was  a  likely  spot  on 
broadcasting  schedules,  hoped  and  dreamed 
about  a  show  of  his  own.  Then,  when  the 
big  chance  came  .  .  .  the  months  of  plan- 
ning, the  long  hours  of  auditioning  a  sup- 
porting cast,  the  excitement  of  rehearsals, 
actual  showtime  and  the  eagerly  awaited 
audience  reactions.  They  had  all  paid  off. 
He  was  in. 

It  was  time  to  relax,  to  enjoy  the  rewards 
of  the  long,  steady  struggle.  Instead,  a  great 
restlessness  came  upon  Robert  Q.  Lewis. 
He  paced  from  rumpus  room  to  bedroom, 
went  downstairs,  paced  from  living  room 
to  terrace,  and  back  again.  As  he  paced, 
the  puzzle  grew,  became  wearying. 

Robert  Q.  Lewis  was  sitting  on  top  of  the 

world.  But  what  had  he  really  been  seeing 

T    of  that  world  recently,  with  his  own  work- 

V    ing  world  bounded  by  Madison  Avenue,  the 

R    studios   and   offices?    Where   was   the   full, 

deeper  meaning  of  the  dream  which  had 

started  it  all?  Who,  indeed,  was  Robert  Q. 

Lewis,  the  man  behind  that  dream?  .  .  . 

78 


Laughter  across  the  Seas 

It  was  an  unheard-of  action  for  Bob,  of 
all  people.  But,  for  the  first  time  in  his 
career,  he  arranged  for  someone — Jack 
Paar — to  replace  him  for  a  month.  He 
called  a  steamship  agency.  Next  day,  he 
sailed  for  France. 

The  crossing  was  uneventful,  though 
restful.  Bob  sat  for  hours  in  his  deck  chair 
and  contemplated  the  vast  reaches  of  the 
Atlantic.  But  he  found  no  answer  there. 
Or  in  his  own  mind,  either.  And  Paris  was 
as  gay  as  he'd  remembered  it — but  too 
light-hearted  to  promise  any  solution  of  his 
personal  puzzle.  He  went  to  Rome. 

Here  he  suddenly  discovered — once  he 
had  registered  at  the  Excelsior  and  investi- 
gated a  cafe  or  two — that,  apparently,  half 
the  people  he'd  ever  met  or  known  were  in 
the  city.  They  were  making  pictures,  or 
they  were  negotiating  contracts,  or  they 
were  awaiting  sn  audience  at  the  Vatican, 
or  they  were  merely  there  because  Rome 
was  now  the  Place-to-Be. 

And  here,  in  the  old  yet  ever-new  Eter- 
nal City,  Bob  Lewis  began  to  find  the  an- 
swer that  he  sought.  It  all  happened  so  nat- 
urally that  he  hardly  had  time  to  realize  his 
discovery.  There  he  was,  surrounded  by 
people — first,  the  colorful  crowds  of  com- 
plete strangers,  then  old  friends  unexpect- 
edly met  and  new  friends  made  on  the  spur 
of  the  moment.  He  began  to  relax  and,  at 
the  same  time,  find  new  energy  for  greater 
activity. 

In  the  beginning,  of  course,  there  were 
the  phone  calls  from  people  he  hoped  to 
know — and  people  who  hoped  to  know  him. 
There  were  notes  and  invitations — specifi- 
cally, one  asking  him  to  appear  on  a  TV 
show  which  was  what  might  be  called  the 
Italian  equivalent  of  our  Welcome  Trav- 
elers program.  Bob  made  the  most  of  it, 
truly  "having  a  wonderful  time." 

"If  you  think  there  is  confusion  on  the 
American  TV  screen,"  he  says,  "you  should 
see  what  happens  on  an  Italian  one!  The 
Latin  temperament  doesn't  lend  itself  to 
relaxed,  routine  procedures.  And  the  young 
guy  in  charge  of  this  show,  named  Mike 
Bongiorno,  does  as  many  shows  in  Italy  as 
Godfrey  does  here." 

Bob  entered  the  melee  with  all  his  new- 
found confidence  and  spirit.  When  Bon- 
giorno asked  him  what  he  thought  of 
Italian  women,  Bob  said:  "Italian  women 
make  Jane  Russell  look  like  a  boy"  .   .  . 


and    that    comment,    in    a    flash,    did    it! 

The  newspapers  had  a  field-day  with  that 
one.  By  the  next  morning,  all  Rome  knew 
who  Robert  Q.  Lewis  was.  To  his  astonish- 
ment, not  only  people  he  already  knew — 
such  as  Groucho  Marx  and  Dorothy  Kil- 
gallen  and  her  husband,  Dick  Kollmar — 
looked  him  up,  but  such  people  as  Ingrid 
Bergman,  Anthony  Quinn  and  Sir  Cedric 
Hardwicke — whom  he'd  never  met  before — 
greeted  him  as  "Bob." 

"It  always  startled  me,"  he  admits.  "I  was 
shy  with  them  because  they  were  famous 
names  and  I  figured  they  wouldn't  know 
me  from  Adam.  And  then  they  explained 
that  they  felt  they  knew  me  from  TV. 
Boy,  what  that  did  for  my  morale!" 

But  the  topper  came  a  few  days  later, 
when  he  decided  to  make  a  little  jaunt  to 
Cannes.  He  was  just  registering  at  the 
Carlton  Hotel  when  he  felt  a  hand  on  his 
shoulder  and  turned  to  discover  the  match- 
less grin  of  Cary  Grant,  another  of  the  stars 
he'd   never   had    an   opportunity   to   meet. 

That  was  the  beginning  of  a  wonderful 
week.  Grant  was  in  Cannes  for  the  filming 
of  Alfred  Hitchcock's  "To  Catch  a  Thief," 
with  Grace  Kelly  as  his  co-star.  When 
Cary  Grant  likes  a  person,  he's  one  of  the 
easiest  people  in  the  world  to  know.  And, 
before  Bob  realized  what  had  happened, 
he  was  dining  with  Cary  and  Miss  Kelly 
and  Mr.  Hitchcock. 

By  coffee-time  they  were  all  good 
friends,  and  Hitchcock  had  a  suggestion. 
"Since  you've  never  been  in  pictures,  how 
about  a  new  experience?  Come  along  with 
us  tomorrow  and  do  a  walk-on.  You  won't 
have  to  learn  any  lines,  or  anything." 

It  seemed  like  a  breezy  idea  to  Bob  and, 
even  though  he  had  to  get  up  at  six  a.m. 
after  only  two  hours'  sleep,  he  was  still 
rarin'  to  go.  The  entire  company  proceeded 
to  the  flower  market  in  Nice,  set  up  their 
equipment,  and  spent  five  hours  shooting 
a  sequence  which  will  not  run  more  than 
a  few  minutes  on  the  screen — and  which, 
Bob  is  convinced,  will  be  cut  out. 

"Hitchcock  gave  me  a  real  job  to  do," 
Bob  remembers.  "As  Grace  Kelly  is  leaving 
a  flower  stall,  I  am  walking  down  the 
street,  and  I  sort  of  give  her  the  eye  when 
she  walks  past  me.  That's  the  extent  of  my 
work  in  the  picture,  and  I  never  got  such 
a  kick  out  of  doing  anything  in  my  fife. .  .  ." 

He  was  back  in  Rome  a  few  days  later, 


living  it  up  and  having  a  terrific  time, 
when  he  ran  into  a  TV  acquaintance  just 
over  from  New  York.  "I  caught  your  show," 
the  man  said,  "or,  rather,  Paar's  show.  Is 
that  boy  good!  You  really  got  yourself  a 
replacement,  kid." 

"That's  great,"  Bob  beamed.  "Couldn't 
happen  to  a  nicer  guy!"  But  an  impish 
gleam  sparked  through  the  famous  glasses, 
as  he  recalled  how  often  he'd  outdone  him- 
self on  the  Godfrey  show  to  prove  his  fit- 
ness for  a  program  of  his  own.  "You  say 
he's  good?"  he  asked.     "How  good?" 

"That  good,"  said  his  New  York  friend. 

"Hmm,"  murmured  Bob.  "Yes.  Glad  to 
have  seen  you — see  you  around — " 

"Here?" 

"On  Madison  Avenue,  you  dope,"  Bob 
grinned,  and  sprinted  for  the  nearest  phone 
to  call  his  manager.  .  .  . 

He  was  astonished,  when  he  came  home, 
to  find  that  he'd  lost  eighteen  pounds.  He 
stretched  out  on  the  upstairs  terrace,  in  the 
filtered  sun  of  East  End  Avenue,  and  re- 
flected on  the  far  more  important  knowl- 
edge he  had  gained.  He  was  rested  and  re- 
laxed, truly  content.  Looking  back,  he 
couldn't  honestly  point  to  any  one  moment 
when  the  answer  had  first  come  to  him. 
But  somehow,  in  his  latest  travels,  he'd 
gone  back  to  the  dream. 

He  knew  now  what  made  Robert  Q. 
Lewis  tick,  why  he  had  struggled  so  long 
to  achieve  the  shows  which  would  offer  the 
kind  of  entertainment  he  himself  believed 
in  most  strongly.  It  was  people.  The  love 
of  people.  The  joy  of  seeing  eyes  light  up, 
of  hearing  an  answering  laugh,  of  sharing 
cheer  and  good  will  with  millions. 

Tomorrow  he'd  call  his  agent  and  tell  him 
to  get  everything  started  again.  There  were 
sponsors  to  meet  and  deal  with,  talent  to 
listen  to  and  choose  from,  interviews  with 
the  press  and  all  the  activities  that  sur- 
round a  man  when  he  goes  out  to  entertain 


the  people  with  everything  he's  got.  .  .  . 

Robert  Q.  Lewis  not  only  plunged  back 
into  the  excitement  of  show  business  with 
added  zest  and  enthusiasm.  He'd  always 
wished  he  had  the  time  for  greater  parti- 
cipation in  worthy  causes — time  which  had 
been  hard  to  find,  while  he  had  been  work- 
ing his  way  up.  Now  he  discovered  that  he 
could  make  the  time,  particularly  for  those 
causes  nearest  to  his  heart. 

As  a  boy,  Bob  had  suffered  severely  from 
asthma,  but  long,  patient  treatment  with 
the  best  of  doctors  had  virtually  cleared  up 
the  trouble.  Later,  while  serving  in  the  Air 
Force,  he  had  contracted  double  pneu- 
monia— which  brought  on  the  asthmatic 
condition  again.  Now  he  was  eager  to  help 
other  youngsters  in  their  own  fight  for  nor- 
mal, painless  breathing,  to  get  them  to  the 
specialists  who  could  make  them  strong  for 
happy,  active  lives.  He  found  the  perfect 
answer  in  the  non-sectarian  Jewish  Na- 
tional Home  for  Asthmatic  Children,  lo- 
cated in  Denver,  Colorado. 

Today,  as  the  East  Coast  region's  hon- 
orary chairman  of  this  fine  organization, 
Bob  has  made  and  carried  out  many  plans 
for  aiding  in  its  development,  and  never 
misses  an  opportunity  to  appeal  for  con- 
tributions to  carry  on  the  work  whose  im- 
portance he  knows  so  well.  At  the  same 
time,  he  has  served  as  Greater  New  York 
chairman  of  the  National  Foundation  for 
Muscular  Dystrophy,  and  brought  all  his 
tremendous  energy  and  talents  to  bear  on 
this  and  other  great,  helpful  projects. 

Always,  it  was  the  people  who  had  in- 
spired his  dream.  The  people  who  work 
and  love  .  .  .  who  sometimes  know  lone- 
liness and  pain  and  fear  .  .  .  and  quite  often 
laugh  at  a  witty,  bespectacled  man  called 
Robert  Q.  Lewis.  For  Bob  is  one  of  the 
people,  too.  And,  because  of  his  dream  and 
its  achievement,  he  can  share  both  their 
sorrows  and  their  smiles. 


Little  Girl  Lonely 


(Continued  from  page  27) 
grade-school  teacher  and  her  father  was 
a  businessman  who  traveled  most  of  the 
time.  Jean  remembers  her  early  years  as 
quiet:  She  liked  to  swim,  she  emoted  in 
back  porch  theatricals.  Then  she  was 
eleven  and  had  quite  an  exciting  year. 
She  began  to  study  piano  and  developed 
a  deep  love  for  music.  She  played  in  a 
school  production  of  "The  Owl  and  the 
Pussycat,"  and  she  starred  as  the  bird. 
And  she  baked  her  first  brownies. 

"I  insisted  on  doing  everything  myself, 
so  my  mother  had  to  sit  there  and  watch 
me  mess  up  the  kitchen  for  a  couple  of 
hou^s  and  only  offer  advice  to  avoid  catas- 
trophes," Jean  says.  Then  she  adds,  "It 
seems  to  me  that  this  has  always  been  my 
mother's  chore— to  put  up  the  patience  for 
my  big  ambitions." 

Baking  brownies  may  not  appear  to  be 
a  significant  experience  in  a  life,  but  it  was 
for  Jean.  She  discovered  that  she  enjoys 
cooking  and  baking.  It  was  her  way  of  re- 
laxing or  of  working  herself  out  of  a  mood. 
And,  happily,  everything  she  made  was 
quite  delicious. 

It  was  in  high  school  plays  that  Jean 
learned  of  her  desire  to  be  an  actress.  Her 
teachers  were  encouraging  and  so,  without 
leaving  home,  she  enrolled  in  the  Univer- 
sity of  Wisconsin— in  the  Speech  Depart- 
ment, which  was  the  same  thing  as  study- 
ing dramatics. 

"I  lived  and  breathed  theater,"  she  says. 
"Even  in  the  summer,  when  I  was  sup- 
posed to  be  on  vacation,  I'd  go  over  to  the 
University  and  hang  around  the  theater 
so  much  that  they  had  to  use  me." 

She  was  so  good  that  the  national  dra- 
matic society,  Zeta  Phi  Eta,  gave  her  an 


award  for  outstanding  speech  and  the 
Speech  Department  gave  her  an  award  for 
outstanding  acting.  Jean  had  been  the  first 
to  be  considered  worthy  of  the  award  in 
several  years.  But  she  was  studious,  too, 
and  was  graduated  with  honors.  And  she 
never  neglected  the  piano.  In  addition, 
she  managed  to  earn  part  of  her  tuition. 

"I  worked  in  the  laboratory,"  she  re- 
calls, "where  we  had  to  innoculate  rats 
and  frogs.  It  wasn't  so  bad  until  it  was  my 
turn  to  hold  the  rats — then  I  got  a  transfer 
to  the  registrar's  office." 

The  University  maintained  its  own  dairy 
and  chicken  farm,  so  Jean  earned  part  of 
her  keep  cleaning  up  coops  and  making 
and  selling  butter.  By  the  time  she  was 
graduated,  she  had  saved  $500  out  of  her 
own  earnings. 

"I  was  dying  to  go  to  New  York  and  be- 
come a  great  actress,  but  I  was  afraid  of 
New  York— so  in  August  I  compromised 
and  went  to  Chicago." 

During  one  summer,  Willard  Waterman, 
who  now  plays  The  Great  Gildersleeve, 
had  come  up  to  the  University  as  a  visit- 
ing professional.  Jean  had  worked  in  a 
play  with  Willard  and  had  impressed  him. 
He  suggested  that  she  come  to  Chicago  and 
audition  for  radio,  but  when  she  arrived 
he  had  gone  to  the  Coast. 

"I  was  all  enthusiasm,"  Jean  says.  "You 
get  an  exaggerated  idea  of  yourself  in 
school  and  think  you're  just  about  the  hot- 
test thing  to  come  along  since  Cleopatra." 
Jean  discovered  it  took  a  long  time — 
three  weeks— to  get  her  first  job.  That 
was  on  a  CBS  network  show  and  she 
played  the  part  of  a  Polish  girl.  It  was  a 
one-shot,  but  right  on  its  heels  came  other 
roles  in  serials  then  originating  in  Chicago: 


AUTHENTIC  -  AUTOGRAPHED 

MINIATURE 


oc^  PIANO 


Liberace,  famous  television 
pianist,  autographs  a 
beautiful  and  useful 
miniature  piano  for  you  . . . 
gorgeous  as  a  candy,  jewel, 
thread  or  cigarette  box— 
or  beautifully  decorative 
as  a  planter  . . .  9Vi  inches 
tall  opened,  7  inches  long 
and  5  inches  wide  ...  in 
ivory,  or  mahogany 
plastic.  What  a 
conversational  piece  it  is! 
And  what  a  wonderful, 
useful  and  thoughtful  gift! 
Order  yours  NOW! 


World  Wide 

1    enclose   $ 

63  C 

intral  Ave. 
for 

,  Ossining, 

N.Y. 

Liberace  mini 
My  first  color 

ature  f 
choice 
choice 

>ianos. 

Second  color 

Nnrpp... .       _„ 

Street 

City.. 

Send  cash  or 

money 

.Zone 
order. 

Stnto                                 1 
We  pay  postage.   1 

WANT  TO  BE 
A  PRACTICAL 


ACT  NOW- HELP  FiLL  THE  NEED 

.  Now  you  can  prepare  for  practical  experience 
'  as  a  Trained  Practical  Nurse  in  spare  time. 
[Many  earn  while  learning.  Ages  18  to  55.  High 
p  school  not  necessary.  Easy  payments.  Write 
for  free  information  and  sample  lesson  pages. 
WAYNE  SCHOOL  OF  PRACTICAL  NURSING,  INC. 

2S2S  Sheffield  Ave.,  Desk   E-81.   Chicago  14,    III. 


"How  to  Make  Money  with 
^^  Simple  Cartoons'' 


should  have.  It  Is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 


ARTOONISTS'  EXCHANGE 
Dept.   591 Pleasant  Hill,   Ohio 

CORNS 

also  Calluses.  Quick,  easy,    - ,„—-  n.,n  J  |_._ 
and    economical.   Just   rub    idllOVCQ  DV 

M0SC0 


on.  Jars,  35^,  60 1.  At  your 
druggist.  Money  refunded 
if  not  satisfied.  Moss  Co., 
Rochester,  N.  Y. 


Learn  Facts  About 

Colitis  and  Piles 

FREE  BOOK  Explains  Causes, 
Effects  and  Treatment 


COlOHfc 


**SF 


Avoid 
(Dangers 
|of  Delay 


Learn  about  Colon  troubles,  Stomach 
conditions,  Piles  and  other  rectal  con- 
ditions. Causes,  effects  and  treatment. 
140-page  book  sent  FREE.  McCleary 
Clinic  and  Hospital,  123  Elms  Blvd., 
Excelsior  Springs,  Mo. 


79 


She  was  Mary  Elizabeth  Jordan  in  The 
Guiding  Light  and  played  Peter  Pan  on 
Sky  King.  She  was  a  regular,  too,  in  Judy 
And  Jane,  Hawkins  Falls,  and  Young  Dr. 
Malone.  She  won  roles  in  stage  produc- 
tions, including  "Apple  of  his  Eye,"  with 
Edward  Arnold,  and  in  Tennessee  Wil- 
liams' "Summer  and  Smoke,"  and  these 
brought   her   praise   from   Chicago   critics. 

"Chicago,  I  loved,"  she  says.  "The  people 
were  wonderful." 

Jean's  mother  had  seen  that  she  was 
properly  installed  in  proper  quarters  be- 
fitting a  proper  young  lady.  But,  before 
Jean  had  a  chance  to  make  her  first  mil- 
lion, she  was  invited  to  come  down  to 
New  York  and  audition  for  the  part  of 
Susan  Ames,  oldest  daughter  of  Peter 
Ames,  widower  and  pivotal  figure  in  The 
Secret  Storm.  New  York  is  the  ultimate 
goal  of  most  actors,  so  Jean — even  though 
she  had  made  many  dear  friends  in  Chi- 
cago— eargerly  accepted  the  new  oppor- 
tunity. It  was  almost  a  year  ago,  Febru- 
ary of  1954,  that  she  found  herself  with  a 
new  role  in  Manhattan — and  she  was 
happy  about  the  role,  but  not  so  pleased 
with  Manhattan. 

She  had  left  a  comfortable  apartment  in 
Chicago  and  hopefully  looked  for  a  similar 
one  at  a  similar  rental  in  New  York. 

She  followed  rent  ads,  knocked  on  doors 
of  building  superintendents  and  generally 
frustrated  herself  into  misery — for,  in 
Manhattan,  housing  is  as  acute  as  it  was 
during  World  War  II. 

"Finally,  I  went  back  to  this  one  super- 
intendent and  literally  cried  my  head  off." 

The  "super"  was  a  sucker  for  tears.  He 
came  up  with  a  little  room — a  maid's  room, 
he  called  it — for  $35  a  month.  Jean  took 
it.  It  has  one  window  that  looks  over  a 
courtyard  and  in  summer  the  courtyard 
boasts  grass  and  a  tree.  While  the  size  is 
in  itself  discomforting,  it  is  the  lack  of  a 
kitchen  that  most  disturbs  Jean.  True,  she 
has  a  two-burner  hotplate  and  the  "super" 
allows  her  the  use  of  his  refrigerator,  but 
that  isn't  living  for  a  gal  who  bakes  a  few 
cakes  with  as  little  effort  as  most  women 
scramble  eggs.  So  Jean  has  taken  to  cook- 
ing out. 

For  example,  the  cast  of  The  Secret 
Storm  was  planning  a  little  party  and,  as 
usual,  expected  to  get  food  from  a  deli- 
catessen. 

"We  should  have  a  turkey  and  a  ham," 
someone  suggested. 

"I'll  take  care  of  that,"  Jean  said. 

"No,  we'll  buy  everything  at  the  same 
place." 


"I  meant  I'll  cook  them  myself." 

And,  from  that  day,  Jean  has  taken  a 
small  chunk  of  business  away  from  New 
York  caterers.  Of  course,  she  has  prob- 
lems. You  can't  cook  a  turkey  and  a  ham 
on  two  electric  burners.  So,  for  the  Secret 
Storm  party,  she  got  the  use  of  the  kitchen 
of  Kay  Campbell,  a  sister  actress  who 
plays  Effie  on  Ma  Perkins,  and  the  kitchen 
of  Dick  Dunn,  who  is  producer  of  The 
Secret  Storm.  Fortunately,  Kay  and  Dick 
lived  in  the  same  building,  although  they 
were  seven  floors  apart.  The  turkey  went 
into  Dick's  oven  and  the  ham  in  Kay's, 
and  Jean  rode  the  elevator  up  and  down 
to  do  her  checking. 

"Then  something  went  wrong  with  Kay's 
oven,"  Jean  recalls,  "and  Kay  wasn't  home, 
so  I  had  to  ask  the  neighbor  what  to  do 
about  it." 

The  neighbor  kindly  suggested  that  Jean 
use  her  kitchen.  Everything,  turkey  and 
ham,  turned  out  fine,  but  that  wasn't  the 
end  of  it.  The  neighbor  was  so  impressed 
that  she  asked  if  Jean  wouldn't  help  plan 
a  menu  for  a  party  she  was  giving.  Jean 
agreed,  came  back,  planned  the  menu  and, 
in  the  end,  decided  she  might  as  well  cook 
it,  too — which  she  did. 

"I've  never  collected  a  penny  for  any  of 
the  cooking  or  baking  I've  done,"  she  says. 

But  she  "cooks  out"  six  to  eight  times  a 
month.  Mike  and  Buff  Wallace  are  old 
friends  from  Chicago  and  she  goes  up  to 
their  apartment  frequently.  She  has  other 
non-professional  friends  from  Chicago. 
She  has  cooked  for  Haila  Stoddard,  who 
also  plays  one  of  the  leads  on  The  Secret 
Storm. 

"People  just  say,  'Jean,  I've  invited  some 
friends  for  dinner.  Wouldn't  you  like  to 
come  over  and  cook?'  and  I  say,  'Yes.'" 

Back  in  Chicago,  the  cast  of  Hawkins 
Falls  had  a  party  at  the  farm  of  Clarence 
Hartzell,  a  radio  and  TV  actor.  It  was  a 
party  for  the  whole  cast  and  cameramen 
and  stagehands  and  all  the  wives.  Jean's 
contribution  was  to  be  ten  cakes.  She  got 
up  at  six  in  the  morning  and  baked  all  ten 
by  noon,  when  she  left  the  farm.  And 
there  weren't  two  cakes  alike.  There  was 
an  upside-down  pineapple  and  a  right- 
side-up  apple  cake.  There  was  a  black- 
and-white  and  vice  versa,  an  angel  food 
and  vice  versa,  etc.  A  short  time  later, 
she  baked  ten  cakes  again  for  an  actors' 
benefit. 

"But  that  was  easy,"  she  says.  "I  had 
the  whole  day  for  that." 

One  of  the  bright  features  of  living  in 
Chicago  was  having  her  own  kitchen.   She 


misses  that  very  much  now,  in  New  York. 

"Now  I  just  chew  my  nails  when  I'm 
restless,"  she  says. 

New  Yorkers  are  friendly  enough.  The 
problem  is  that  most  of  her  friends  are 
married. 

"Married  and  tired,"  she  says.  "I've 
never  known  a  more  exhausting  city  than 
this,  either.  It  doesn't  surprise  me  that 
most  New  Yorkers  just  go  home  and  crawl 
into  bed." 

Jean  keeps  herself  active.  The  Secret 
Storm  is  on  a  five-day-a-week  schedule, 
but  Jean  still  studies  drama,  and  she  studies 
dance  with  Martha  Graham,  and  she  con- 
tinues to  practice  the  piano. 

CBS  has  video  studios  in  the  Liederkranz 
Hall,  which  is  a  large,  old  building  slightly 
converted  to  modern  use.  In  the  basement 
storage  room  is  a  grand  piano.  Many 
evenings  each  week,  about  six,  Jean  goes 
down  to  the  basement  and  digs  the  piano 
out  from  under  some  props  and  plays  for 
an  hour. 

Her  audience  may  be  someone  from  the 
engineering  department,  or  perhaps 
eleven-year-old  Jada  Rowland,  who  plays 
Amy  on  the  serial.  Jean  and  Jada  are 
good  friends.  They  frequently  take  walks 
together.  The  studio  isn't  far  from  Cen- 
tral Park  and  the  zoo  and  boats.  Jean 
gets  along  easily  with  most  children. 

"Of  course,  it's  wrong  to  call  Jada  a 
child.  Conversationally,  she  holds  her  own 
with  almost  anyone." 

There  isn't  anyone  connected  with  The 
Secret  Storm,  whether  technician,  actor 
or  advertiser,  who  doesn't  consider  Jean 
Mowry  a  friend.  She  is  quite  thoughtful — 
she's  the  gal  who  remembers  birthdays 
and  collects  the  cast's  signatures  on  a 
card.  She  is  very  considerate  and  always 
on  time  for  rehearsals. 

"Being  nice  to  nice  people  is  easy,"  Jean 
says,  "but  I  do  make  a  special  effort  in 
my  work.  I  work  very  hard  and  try  very 
hard.  I  want  to  be  a  successful  actress. 
It's  that  simple." 

This  winter,  Jean  is  making  her  New 
York  stage  debut  at  the  Cherry  Lane 
Theater  with  an  off-Broadway,  profes- 
sional production.  It  should  keep  her  even 
busier  than  she  is  now,  but  may  keep  her 
from  being  as  lonely  as  she  is. 

"That  isn't  the  answer,  and  I  know  it," 
she  says.  "My  first  ambition,  over  and 
above  career,  is  to  have  a  big  kitchen  of 
my  own,  with  a  cake  in  the  oven,  a  chicken 
in  the  skillet,  and  a  husband  at  the  table." 
She  smiles  and  adds,  "And,  after  a  while, 
maybe  a  baby  in  a  high  chair." 


Season's  Greetings  from  Godfrey 


(Continued  from  page  21) 
so   they'd   think   Santa   Claus   brought  it." 
He   reminisces   in   his   office,   which,   al- 
though   handsomely    furnished,    is    toned 
down  for  quiet  comfort.  There  are  many 
pictures  and  mementos  on  the  walls  and 
on  the  tables  and  the  desk.  The  pictures 
represent  many  periods  in  his  life:    There 
is  an  aerial  shot  of  the  destroyer  he  shipped 
on  in  his  teens,  a  transcription  of  his  last 
early-morning    broadcast    after    a    fifteen- 
year  stint.  There  are  photographs  of  many 
important  men  of  our  age,  Secretary  of  De- 
fense Charles  E.  Wilson,  Bernard  Baruch, 
Eddie  Rickenbacker,  Gen.  Curtis  LeMay — 
men  who  count  Arthur  as  a  personal  friend 
—and  there  are  many  pictures  of  his  fam- 
ily, his  wife  and  children  and  his  mother. 
Remembering,    Arthur    smiles    and    the 
T    smile  grows  into  a  grin.  "You  know,  I  don't 
¥     think  anyone  should  spoil  a  kid's  fun  and 
R    tell  him  there's  no  Santa  Claus— and  that 
reminds  me  of  my  mother  and  her  telling 
me." 
on      Arthur  figures  he  learned  from  playmates 


when  he  was  five  or  so  that  there  was  no 
Santa  Claus.  But  there  was  this  December 
when  he  was  past  ten — maybe  eleven  or 
twelve — and  his  mother  took  him  aside. 

"Arthur,  I  want  to  talk  to  you  privately," 
she  said. 

The  way  she  said  it  made  him  squirm. 
He  thought  she  was  going  to  tell  him  about 
the  birds  and  bees.  Arthur  knew  about 
that,  too. 

"I  was  looking  every  which  way,  and 
getting  redder  and  redder,"  he  recalls,  "and 
then  she  says,  'Son,  I  want  you  to  know 
that  there  really  isn't  a  Santa  Claus.' " 

He  was  so  relieved  that  he  just  gasped 
and  walked  away. 

In  a  grim,  literal  sense,  there  wasn't  any 
Santa  Claus  around  in  those  years.  At  the 
age  of  fourteen,  Arthur  left  home — or  he 
would  have,  if  the  home  wasn't  already 
busted  up — and  went  through  an  assort- 
ment of  odd  jobs  that  took  him  from  the 
streets  of  New  York,  through  a  Pennsyl- 
vania coal  mine,  and  finally  to  Akron, 
where  he  worked  in  a  rubber  plant,  slung 


hash  and  racked  pool  balls.  His  father  had 
gone  completely  broke  when  Arthur  was 
just  ten.  They  had  struggled  to  keep  the 
family  together.  Arthur,  too  young  to  be  a 
Boy  Scout,  anyway,  was  out  delivering  gro- 
ceries and  getting  up  before  dawn  to  work 
for  a  milkman.  But  there  wasn't  enough 
money  for  rent.  Different  neighbors  took  in 
the  kids.  So  Christmas  had  no  special 
meaning  in  those  years.  Arthur  was  fully 
occupied  with  the  problem  of  survival. 

"I  remember  Christmas  my  first  year  in 
the  Navy.  I  was  seventeen  then.  I  was  one 
of  the  Honor  Guard  chosen  to  attend  Sol- 
emn High  Mass.  I  was  down  on  one  knee 
so  long  and  I  wasn't  used  to  it.  I  remember 
how  worried  I  was  that  I'd  faint." 

He  was  in  radio  school  and  went  ahead 
so  rapidly  in  class  that  he  finished  up  the 
course  as  an  instructor.  Afterwards,  he 
shipped  out  on  a  destroyer  and  it  was  while 
on  sea  duty,  in  1922,  that  he  had  his  most 
memorable  Christmas.  He  was  nineteen 
years  old. 

"We  were  in  the  Mediterranean  and  we'd 


been  out  of  the  States  about  a  year.  You 
know  how  it  is.  Most  of  my  shipmates  were 
kids  like  me,  young  and  trying  to  act  tough 
so  they'd  look  grown-up.  It  was  a  typical 
American  crew  with  an  assortment  of  re- 
ligious beliefs — various  kinds  of  Protest- 
ants and  some  Catholics  and  Jews  and  even 
a  few  of  Greek  Orthodox  faith.  And  here 
was  Christmas  Eve  and  we  were  eastbound 
for  Jaffa,  one  of  the  world's  ancient  sea- 
ports in  Palestine.  You  know  the  Crusaders 
debarked  there — and  that's  where  Peter 
lived." 

Arthur,  normally  a  sound  sleeper,  found 
himself  stirring  in  the  early  hours  of 
Christmas  morning.  Because  of  seniority, 
he  didn't  have  to  pull  the  early  watch — four 
to  eight  a.m. — so  it  didn't  have  anything 
to  do  with  the  habit.  But  he  found  him- 
self wide  awake  in  the  dark.  It  was  his 
heavy  consciousness  of  being  so  close  to 
the  Holy  Land.  He  got  out  of  his  bunk  and 
found  his  way  to  the  forecastle. 

"It  was  as  calm  as  a  mill  pond  and  quiet 
except  for  the  swish  of  the  ship.  No  wind, 
but  cold — early-morning  cold,  the  way  the 
Mediterranean  is  that  time  of  the  year.  I 
was  facing  East,  in  the  direction  of  our 
course,  and  there  was  this  very  bright  star, 
low  on  the  sky.  I  guess  it  must  have  been 
Venus,  but  it  was  so  beautiful.  I  felt  awe 
like  the  Wise  Men  talked  about  when  they 
first  saw  the  Star  of  Bethlehem.  And  I  sat 
there  watching,  watching  the  star  rise  and 
gently  fade  with  the  dawn.  I  was  feeling 
this  tremendous  experience  and  thinking 
how  wonderful  it  would  have  been  to  share 
it  and  then,  with  the  light  of  dawn,  I 
looked  around  and  there  was  over  three- 
quarters  of  the  ship's  company  on  deck 
with  me.  They  had  all  been  sitting  there, 
too,  none  of  them  saying  a  word." 

Arthur  got  a  pass  to  go  ashore  in  Jaffa. 
He  and  some  of  his  shipmates  hired  an 
Arabian  cab,  an  old  touring  car,  to  take 
them  thirty  miles  inland  to  Jerusalem. 

"Our  first  stop  was  at  the  Church  of  the 
Holy  Sepulcher.  You  might  say  we  did  the 
Stations  of  the  Cross  in  reverse.  And  then 
our  Arabian  cowboy  bucked  us  into  Beth- 
lehem, where  we  visited  the  Church  of  the 
Holy  Nativity.  I  had  a  friend  with  me — one 
of  my  radio  men,  named  Mannie  Schubert 
— and  I  remember  he  turned  to  me  at  the 
end  of  the  day  and  said,  'It's  just  beautiful. 
Just  beautiful.' " 

Ihis  all  happened  thirty-two  years  ago, 
but  the  details  are  still  clear.  Arthur  was 
especially  impressed  by  the  Franciscan 
friars — men  who  had  given  up  every  ma- 
terial thing  to  devote  themselves  to  charity. 

"These  people  are  so  devout  and  so  de- 
voted. When  I  was  in  the  St.  Clair  Hospital, 
there  was  a  priest  from  the  Franciscan  or- 
der. He  was  up  at  five  every  morning,  and 
he  spent  some  time  with  every  patient  each 
day — and  there  were  hundreds  of  patients. 
He  worked  right  up  until  lights  out,  and  he 
was  on  call  through  the  night,  too.  He 
never  complained,  never  tired.  He  was 
handsome  enough  to  be  a  movie  star  and 
he  had  the  personality,  too,  but  he  devoted 
his  life  to  others.  And  he  wore  the  same 
clothes — the  cowl  and  habit — I  had  seen  in 
Jerusalem.  He  carried  cigars,  and  cigar- 
ettes, and  candy,  and  everything  except  a 
case  of  Coke,  in  his  hood.  You  could  ask  for 
anything,  and  it  was  just  like  magic  the 
way  he  put  his  hand  behind  his  head  and 
pulled  it  out  of  his  cowl."  Arthur  suddenly 
pulls  himself  up.  "Father  Andrew  Smith 
was  his  name,  and  he  has  nothing  to  do 
with  my  Christmas  story,  except  he  kind 
of  tags  along  with  that  other  memory." 

If  Arthur  hasn't  a  flood  of  Christmas 
memories,  there  is  good  reason  for  it. 

"You  wouldn't  need  the  fingers  of  one 
hand  to  count  the  number  of  Christmases 
I've  had  off,"  he  says.  "If  Christmas  falls 
on  Monday  or  Tuesday,  I  fly  down  to  the 
farm   right    after   the   morning   show   and 


spend  the  afternoon  with  the  family,  then 
fly  back  at  night  to  be  in  New  York  for  the 
next  morning's  show.  If  Christmas  falls  on 
Wednesday,  then  they  hold  off  celebrating 
until  Thursday,  when  I  go  home  for  the 
weekend.  This  is  one  of  the  greatest  com- 
pliments the  kids  pay  their  dad.  They're 
bursting  to  get  at  their  packages,  but  they 
say,  'Christmas  wouldn't  be  right  without 
Daddy.' " 

This  Christmas  will  be  a  rare  one  for  the 
Godfreys,  for  the  twenty-fifth  falls  on  a 
Saturday — which  means  Arthur  will  be 
home  all  day.  Matter  of  fact,  he'll  be  there 
Friday  to  help  trim  the  tree — which  makes 
kind  of  a  double  holiday.  To  make  it  extra 
special,  in  addition  to  his  kids  Pat  and  Mike 
and  his  wife  Mary,  his  grown  son  Dick  will 
come  in  from  California  with  his  wife  and 
Arthur's  pretty  granddaughter.  And,  as 
they  say  on  theater  marquees,  as  "an  ex- 
tra added  attraction,"  it's  Arthur's  turn  to 
have  his  mother  for  the  holidays. 

"We  exchange  gifts,  of  course,  but  that 
part  of  it  is  mostly  for  the  kids.  The  gifts 
that  touch  me  are  the  'made'  ones— the 
handmade  ones  that  represent  some  part  of 
the  giver." 

During  his  long  reign,  Arthur  has  re- 
ceived many  royal -type  gifts.  What  does 
he  value?  What  does  he  remember? 

"One  of  the  neighbors  gave  me  a  waste- 
basket.  You  could  see  that  she  made  it. 
Beautiful  details.  Hand  painted.  It  was  a 
lot  of  work  and  a  lot  of  thought."  Arthur 
takes  a  painting  off  his  desk.  It's  in  a 
leather  case  which  opens  so  that  it  props 
into  a  sitting  position  on  a  table.  It's  not 
tiny,  but  on  the  other  hand,  not  so  large. 
Folded  in  its  case,  it  might  fit  into  the  side 
pocket  of  a  man's  jacket.  It  is  a  full-length 
oil  painting  of  Mrs.  Godfrey.  "Think  of 
what  this  entailed.  She  had  to  pick  out  a 
dress  and  accessories.  She  had  to  go  into  the 
artist's  studio  and  put  on  these  clothes  and 
maybe  stop  at  a  hairdresser  every  time. 
How  many  times?  I  guess  maybe  every  sit- 
ting cost  her  at  least  a  half-day.  This  is 
what  makes  a  real  Christmas  present." 

Arthur,  who  has  a  remarkable  memory, 
has  never  forgotten  what  it's  like  to  be 
broke,  especially  at  Christmas  time.  Once 
he  took  part  in  toting  Christmas  baskets 
when  he  was  living  in  Washington,  D.  C. 
He  found  that  unsatisfactory  and  has  de- 
veloped what  might  be  called  a  "perpetual" 
basket  for  the  needy.  It  operates  right  out 
of  his  office,  under  the  direction  of  one  of 
his  secretaries,  Doreen  Partin.  A  file  is  kept 
up  to  date  on  organizations,  individuals, 
young  and  old,  and  charities  who  are  in 
need  of  help  or  just  good  cheer.  A  candy- 
maker  may  send  in  a  ten-pound  box  of 
chocolates  for  the  cast.  The  box,  calories 
intact,  usually  winds  up  in  a  hospital  or 
institution.  Toy  manufacturers  will  send  in 
new  products,  hoping  to  intrigue  Arthur 
to  the  point  of  mentioning  them  on  the  air. 
Maybe  he  does,  but  then  the  toy  goes  back 
in  its  box,  gets  a  new  mailing  label  and 
goes  off  to  a  youngster.  No  letter  that  comes 
in  is  ignored.  Each  is  investigated.  During 
a  holiday  season,  when  gifts  are  coming  in 
by  the  sack,  they  are  going  out  by  the  sack, 
too — seventy-five   to   a   hundred   a   day. 

"But  it's  not  the  gifts.  The  tinsel  and  gad- 
gets and  ribbons  are  for  kids.  For  adults, 
Christmas  is  a  curious  mixture  of  memor- 
ies and  brotherhood  and  prayer. 

"You  know,  there's  nothing  more  beau- 
tiful than  people  in  church.  They  stand 
shoulder  to  shoulder,  singing  and  in  pray- 
er, their  minds  'way  up  in  the  highest  level. 
There's  Mr.  Hardhead  and  Mr.  Tough  Guy. 
Suddenly,  they're  like  everyone  else. 
They're  together  in  brotherhood,  in  trust. 
They're  all  very  beautiful  because  of  what 
they're  thinking  and  doing.  That's  the  way 
people  are  on  Christmas,  too,  and  that's 
why  maybe  Christmas  is  the  most  beautiful 
day  of  all." 


All  quiet  on  the 

teething  front,,. 

This  peaceful  baby  has  just  won 

another  battle  with  teething  pains! 

Thanks  to  medically-formulated 

NUM-ZIT  Teething  Lotion,  the 

pain  of  sore,  tender  gums  is  under 

control.  NUM-ZIT  is  quick,  safe, 

effective.  Recommended  by 

many  baby  care  authorities. 

At  all  drug  counters 

NUM-ZIT 

TEETHING    LOTION 


Another  fine  PUREPAC  product 


^_J0^Cash  In  On  EVERY  Occasion 

jMnj  Awith  MIDWEST  Greeting  Cards 

VAmUp^B-.  Make  bigger  profits  all  year.  Show 
^Bia^^^%r\kl  C  Cfriendsfast-sellingValentines. Easter, 
-    --    —  vVAinCO  Mother's,  Father's  Day  Cards,  plas 
P"-best  Birthday,  Get- Well  assortments, 
J  etc.  6  new  Valentine  packs.  SecretPal 
*  Cards,  nnnsaal  new  ideas,  exceptional 
^  bargains  in  Cards,  Notes,  Gifts,  Gadgets, 
r  Personalized  Stationery.  Profits  to  100% 
r  on  big  line.  Samples  on  approval.  Write. 
Midwest  Card  Co.,  1 113  Washington  Ave.,  Bept.  P-35,  St.  Louis  1 ,  Mo. 


SB 


OREVER 


MAKE   S50-S60  A  WEEK 
Tou  can  learn  at  home  in  spare  time. 
Choice    of    careers:    practical    nurse, 
nursing  aide,  hospital  attendant,  infant 
nurse,  nurse-companion,  doctor's  office, 
etc.    Course   endorsed   by   physicians. 
56th  year.  Equipment  included.  Men, 
women,  18  to  60.  High  school  not  re- 
quired.   Easy   tuition   payments.    Trial   plan.    Write   today. 
CHICAGO   SCHOOL   OF    NURSING 
Dept.  21,  25   East  Jackson   Blvd.,   Chicago  4,    III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Name 

City State Age . 


suK"sPSORIASIS 


MAKE  THE  ONE 

SPOT 


'SCALY     SKIN     TROUBLE) 

DGRmOIL 


Prove  it  yourself  no  matter 

how  long  you  have  suffered 
or  what   you    have  tried. 
Beautiful  book  on  psori- 
asis   and    Dor  moil    with 
amazing      true       photo- 
graphic proof  of  results 
""ntFREE.  Write  for  it. 


SEND    FOR 

GENEROUS 
TRIAL 
SIZE  ^ 


?<S 


Don't     mistake     ecze 
for    the    stubborn,     ugly 
embarrassing    scaly    skii 
disease       Psoriasis.       Ap- 
ply   non-staining    Der- 
moil.     Thousands     do     fo 
scaly     spots     on     body     < 
scalp.    Grateful  users  often 
after     years     of      sufferi 
report      the      scales      ha 
gone,  the  red  patches  gradually  dls-  ~~^^^^""~         *"* "" 

appeared  and  they  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  clear  skin 
again.  Dermoil  is  used  by  many  doctors  and  is  backed  bv  a 
positive  agreement  to  give  definite  benefit  in  2  weeks  or 
money  is  refunded  without  question.  Send  10c  (stamps  or  en  hi  > 
for  generous  trial  bottle  to  make  our  famous  "One  Spot 
Test."  Test  It  foryourself.  Results  may  surprise  you.  Write  to- 
day for  your  test  bottle.  Caution:  Use  only  as  directed.  Print 
name  plainly.  Don't  delay.  Sold  by  Liggett  and  Walgreen  Drug 
stores  and  other  leading  Druggists.  LAKE  LABORATORIES, 
Box  3925.  Strath  moor  Station,  Dept.  9304,  Detroit  27,  Mich. 


81 


(Continued  from  page  33) 
pay,  just  to   get  before   a   camera. 

"I  got  plenty  of  advice  about  it,  too," 
he  remembered  wryly.  "All  the  big-name 
guys  used  to  say,  'TV?  Who  sees  it? 
You're  wasting  your  time.  You're  nuts, 
messing   around   with  that   stuff.' " 

Their  comment  was  echoed  by  the 
athletes  he  sought  to  interview  on  his 
sports  show  and  by  the  entertainers  he 
invited  to  appear  on  his  variety  program, 
Television  Roof.  Dennis  had  two  argu- 
ments to  overcome  their  objections — food 
and  plugs. 

"I'd  offer  to  take  the  athletes  to  dinner," 
he  said.  "And  could  those  guys  eat!  They 
would  also  bring  their  friends.  Once  I  got 
stuck  feeding  nine  wrestlers,  including 
Man  Mountain  Dean.  The  bill  was  one 
hundred  and  forty-five  dollars." 

Bait  for  the  entertainers  was  a  mention 
on  Station  WNEW,  where  Dennis  had 
several  shows.  "When  someone  would  say 
no,  he  didn't  want  to  be  seen  on  tele- 
vision, I'd  answer,  'Who's  going  to  see 
you?  And  besides,  if  you  help  me  out 
here,  I'll  plug  your  record  on  radio.' " 

Production  methods  were  as  undeveloped 
as  the  equipment.  To  cover  an  early  out- 
door fight,  he  had  to  rely  on  field  glasses 
and  his  own  knowledge  as  a  former  boxer. 
Because  equipment  was  too  cumbersome 
for  the  stadium,  the  cameras  were  set  up 
on  a  rooftop  a  block  and  a  half  away. 
"And  I  was  right  there  beside  them." 
Dennis  explained.  "No  one  thought  of 
running  in  an  audio  line  and  locating  the 
microphone  and  me  at  ringside." 

He  needed  fortitude  of  another  sort  the 
night  his  friend,  Bibber  McCoy,  a  chief 
petty  officer  in  the  Coast  Guard,  came  to 
the  show.  Bibber,  teaching  a  then-new 
thing  called  commando  training,  informed 
Dennis  he  had  a  new,  super-effective  hold. 
"I  suggested  he  demonstrate,  using  me  as 
the  subject,"  Dennis  recounted.  "I'll  say 
it  was  effective.  I  was  out  cold  for  fifteen 
minutes.  To  bring  me  around,  he  had  to 
sock  me  in  the  jaw.  There  I  was,  as 
messed  up  as  if  I  had  been  in  a  street 
brawl.  I  did  the  rest  of  the  show  in  a 
fog." 

It  was  after  Dennis  returned  from  his 
own  Army  service  that  he  was  assigned  to 
the  wrestling  which  brought  him  his  first 
fame.  This,  for  him,  was  a  period  of  great 
personal  change.  Where,  before  the  war, 
he  had  commuted  from  Jersey  City,  across 
the  Hudson,  he  now  took  his  first  apart- 
ment in  Manhattan.  "Again,  television  was 
responsible.  I  sublet  from  a  young  couple 


The  Youngest  Pioneer 

who  went  along  as  entertainers  with  the 
RCA  jeep  unit — the  television  demonstra- 
tion outfit — which  my  brother,  Lou  Sposa, 
who  is  a  director,  took  out  on  tour.  The 
apartment  was  a  fifth-floor  walk-up,  fifty 
dollars  rent  a  month,  at  35  West  Fifty- 
second  Street." 

Fifty-second  was  then  Swing  Street, 
blazing  with  signs  and  blaring  with  the 
jazz,  jive  and  bop  of  the  hot  combos.  As 
Dennis  recalled,  "New  York  can  be  a 
kind  of  lonesome  town,  even  when  you 
think  you  know  it.  I  was  then  chasing 
down  every  announcing  job,  commercial, 
or  serial  acting  role  I  could  find,  trying  to 
get  re-established.  Between  times,  I'd  sit 
out  on  the  stoop  and  look  up  and  down 
that  street.  To  the  right  were  the  swing 
joints.  To  the  left  was  the  fabulous  and 
expensive  Twenty-One  Club.  I'd  wonder 
what  New  York  held  for  me — which  di- 
rection I'd  be  going." 

He  went  neither  direction,  at  the  mo- 
ment. Television  lights,  not  neon,  marked 
his  path.  For,  with  the  sale  of  the  first 
post-war  television  sets,  people  discovered 
the  magic  of  seeing  beyond  their  own 
horizon,  of  bringing  the  world  into  their 
own  living  rooms.  The  family  owning  a 
set  found  themselves  playing  host  to  the 
entire  neighborhood,  to  strangers  as  well 
as  friends.  Raptly,  crowds  sat  in  the  dark, 
staring  at  the  small  screens. 

Advertisers,  however,  were  slow  to  suc- 
cumb to  its  fascination.  TV  stations,  fran- 
tically building  new  studios  and  trans- 
mitters, had  little  money  left  over  for 
programs.  Every  program  director  looked 
for    the    inexpensive,    ready-made    show. 

Wrestling  filled  that  requirement  and, 
because  it  could  not  compete  for  gate  re- 
ceipts against  the  more  popular  and 
sports-  commission  -  recognized  boxing, 
wrestling  welcomed  the  television  remote 
unit,  however  small  the  fee  it  offered. 

With  a  camera,  a  truck  to  carry  the  con- 
trol equipment  and  a  short-wave  relay 
back  to  the  station,  you  were  in  business. 
But  televised  wrestling,  for  all  its  graphic, 
contorted  drama,  also  required  someone  to 
say  a  few  words — just  so  people  wouldn't 
think  that  the  audio  of  their  temperamen- 
tal sets  had  gone  on  the  blink  again. 
Dennis,  already  television's  Man  Friday, 
was  called  upon. 

"I'd  never  even  seen  a  wrestling  match," 
said  Dennis.  "I  bought  a  book.  It  was 
written  by  Steve  Gotch,  the  Jack  Dempsey 
of  wrestling  and,  thank  heaven,  it  was 
well  illustrated!  I'd  sit  at  ringside,  thumb- 
ing through  the   pages.    When  I  found   a 


Valentine  Cover  Girl! 

On  the  outside,  a  full-size,  full-color 
portrait   of   everybody's   sweetheart — 
Betty  White  ...  on  the  inside,  the 
story  of  this  beloved  star — as  only  her 
own  mother  could  tell  it  .  .  .  leading 
off  a  picture-packed  parade  of  your  most 
popular  programs  and   people — all  in 

February  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on   sale   at   your   newsstand    January   6 


82 


hold  on  the  mat  which  matched  the  picture 
in  the  book,  I  named  it." 

But  his  own  skill  in  other  athletics  made 
him  realize  how  amateurish  such  com- 
ment must  sound  to  the  real  fan.  He 
found  a  device  to  sugar-coat  his  ignorance. 
"I  figured  the  only  ones  who  knew  less 
than  I  did  about  wrestling  were  the 
women  viewers.  So  I  talked  to  them.  I'd 
say,  'How  did  you  like  that,  Mother?  Did 
you  see  that  half  nelson,  Mother?  Okay, 
Mother?'  " 

The  women,  delighted  at  being  told  what 
this  inescapable  and  strange  commotion 
was  all  about,  took  Dennis  to  their  hearts. 
As  he  won  himself  an  enthusiastic,  letter- 
writing  audience,  he  added  personal  in- 
novations. One  was  a  particularly  grisly, 
crackling  sound  effect.  In  New  York, 
"grunts,  groans  and  cracking  bones"  be- 
came a  catch  phrase.  Another  was  his 
interviews  with  the  colorful,  Damon  Run- 
yon-type  habitues  at  ringside.  A  still- 
remembered  principal  in  this  cast  of 
characters  was  Hatpin  Mary,  a  short,  vig- 
orous woman  with  a  shock  of  bushy  gray 
hair.  When  wrestlers  bounced  close,  or  if 
anyone  displeased  her,  she'd  go  for  them 
with  the  weapon  which  gave  her  her 
name — a  long  hatpin. 

There  also  were  the  fancy  dressers 
whose  admiration  of  James'  natty  attire 
produced  the  necktie  gag.  "When  someone 
said  he  liked  my  tie,  I'd  whip  it  off  and 
give  it  to  him,"  Dennis  recalled.  "I  can't 
even  guess  how  many  thousands  I  gave 
away.  Manufacturers,  regarding  me  as  a 
walking  showcase,  sent  me  their  best  num- 
bers. Finally,  it  got  too  much  for  me,  so — to 
call  a  truce — I  started  wearing  a  bow 
tie." 

His  first  daytime  show  was  a  wrestling 
derivative.  James  Hill,  president  of  Ster- 
ling Drug  Company,  called  him  in  and 
stated,  "You've  turned  my  wife  into  a 
wrestling  fan.  She's  crazy  about  you — 
and,  if  she  is,  other  women  must  feel  the 
same  way.  Plan  a  show  for  me.  Some- 
thing to  break  up  the  monotony  of  house- 
keeping chores." 

Appropriately,  the  show  was  called  Okay 
Mother.  On  it,  Dennis  dispensed  questions, 
gifts  and  kisses.  When  it  left  the  air,  he 
estimated  he  had  kissed  sixty  thousand 
mothers  in  the  studio  audience. 

His  show,  Cash  And  Carry,  was  one  of 
the  first  daytimers  to  be  piped  out  on  the 
new  coaxial  cable — and  it  was  devoted 
largely  to  practical  jokes  with  Dennis  al- 
ways the  victim.  He  recalled,  "It  started 
on  a  day  when  I  pretended  to  be  late  and 
the  camera  discovered  me  in  a  bubble 
bath.  Then  that  fiendishly  ingenious  crew 
started  to  ad-lib.  Every  time  I  went  on 
set,  I  knew  I  was  due  for  a  horror.  One 
day  they  equipped  a  cash  register  with  a 
spring  strong  enough  to  raise  a  bridge. 
When  I  opened  it,  the  whole  drawer  shot 
across  the  stage.  Another  time,  when  I 
was  sure  I  was  safe,  they  used  their  elec- 
tronic skill  to  wire  a  barber  chair.  The 
electric  shock  they  gave  me  made  me  jump 
almost  into  the  camera.  But,  the  day  the 
sandbags  dropped  within  two  inches  of 
me,  I  laid  down  the  law.  I  said,  'Sure  your 
aim  was  good.  Sure  you  missed  me.  But 
how  did  you  know  I  wasn't  going  to 
move?' " 

High  jinks  and  air  hours  added  up  to 
fifteen  television  firsts  and,  in  1948,  brought 
seven  national  awards.  Shortly  thereafter, 
they  also  brought  a  quinsy  throat,  an  op- 
eration, silence — and  a  bride. 

That  story  has  often  been  told.  But,  as 
Dennis  and  Mickey — the  former  Marjorie 
Crawford — went  back  over  the  early  days, 
they  recalled  highlights  of  their  court- 
ship. 


Said  Dennis,  "I  had  the  Old  Gold  shows 
and  I  had  just  been  given  the  contract  to 
do  the  Pabst  Blue  Ribbon  fights  when  my 
voice  went  bad.  To  recover  from  the 
throat  operation,  I  went  to  Florida  and 
that  grand  business  manager  of  mine,  Vin- 
cent Andrews,  went  along  as  nurse,  com- 
panion and  watchdog.  Very  soon,  Vince 
was  also  giving  advice  to  the  lovelorn. 
A  radio  station  owner  I'd  once  worked  for 
invited  us  to  his  home.  I  did  not  know 
he  had  planned  a  party  for  me.  If  I  had, 
I  would  sure  as  the  dickens  have  objected, 
for  I  couldn't  speak  a  word!  I  had  to 
carry  a  pad  and  write  everything  out." 

Said  Mickey,  "I  was  there  because 
friends  asked  to  bring  Mother  and  me. 
We  had  moved  to  Miami  after  my  father 
died  and  our  home  in  New  Castle,  Penn- 
sylvania seemed  lonely.  I  met  some  people 
through  my  job  as  a  commercial  artist  at 
an  advertising  agency,  but  most  of  those 
at  the  party  were  strangers.  Many  of  them 
were  from  up  north,  and  I  just  couldn't 
understand  why  they  were  all  making 
such  a  fuss  over  this  Dennis  James.  We 
didn't  then  have  television  in  Miami,  and 
I'd  neither  seen  him  nor  heard  of  him. 
I  heard  people  speak  to  him  about  Old 
Golds.  Finally  I  whispered  to  Mother, 
'I  think  he  has  something  to  do  with 
cigarettes.' " 

Speechless  though  Dennis  was,  he  per- 
suaded Mickey,  through  a  scrawled  mes- 
sage, to  let  him  take  her  home.  He  was 
even  happy  to  learn  that  home  was  twenty- 
five  miles  away. 

"But,"  he  recalled,  "she  sure  gave  me 
some  anxious  moments.  Since  Mickey  and 
her  mother  also  were  driving,  we  ar- 
ranged that  Vince  and  I  were  to  join  up 
with  them  at  a  church  in  a  certain  area. 
There  were  two  churches.  I  was  a  nervous 
wreck  by  the  time  they  arrived.  Believe 
me,  I  lost  no  more  time  shoving  Vince 
into  her  mother's  car  so  that  I  could  drive 
through  the  moonlight  with  Mickey." 

With  the  excuse  of  giving  a  birthday 
party  for  her,  Dennis  persuaded  Mickey  to 
visit  New  York.  As  she  stepped  off  the 
plane,  he  greeted  her,  "Let's  get  married." 
They  chose  December  5,  1951,  as  the  date — 
and,  of  course,  selected  Vince,  that  busi- 
ness manager  turned  matchmaker,  as  best 
man. 

JMickey  had  already  had  her  introduction 
to  the  demands  made  on  a  celebrity.  She 
said,  "It  fussed  me  the  first  time  people 
moved  in  on  us  when  we  were  out  to 
dinner,  but  I  learned.  By  the  time  we 
were  married,  I  was  reconciled  to  having 
a  million  mothers-in-law.  But  I  didn't 
quite  expect  the  taxi  driver." 

Dennis  took  up  the  thread  of  the  story. 
"Mickey  and  I  had  the  darnedest  things 
happen.  The  newspapers  published  pic- 
tures when  we  were  married,  but  no  one 
bothered  us  at  the  plush  hotel  to  which  we 
went.  Then,  next  morning,  as  we  got  into 
a  cab,  the  driver  turned  around  and  leered, 
'Did  you  have  a  good  time?'  Well,  Mickey 
blushed  and  I  all  but  socked  him.  My 
disposition  was  not  improved  by  the  fact 
that  we  hadn't  slept  a  wink.  Right  beneath 
our  windows,  every  restaurant  and  hotel 
in  the  block  was  loading  its  garbage.  The 
clatter  of  cans  and  the  grinding  of  trucks 
went  on  all  night  long." 

Equally  inauspicious  was  their  introduc- 
tion to  their  New  Rochelle  home.  Dennis, 
having  spotted  it  while  sailing,  had  been 
overjoyed  when  he  learned  it  was  for 
sale.  During  their  inspection  tour,  as 
Mickey  investigated  the  kitchen,  he  ex- 
plored the  garage.  Being  thorough,  he 
tested  the  overhead  door.  It  fell  down,  hit 
him  on  the  head  and  knocked  him  cold.  "I 
fixed  that,"  he  reported  with  satisfaction. 
"Now  both  door  and  gates  operate,  elec- 
tronically by  remote  control  from  the  car." 


Despite  so  painful  a  beginning,  the  house 
has  brought  them  all  they  hoped  for.  Trees 
and  shrubbery  shield  it  from  the  winding 
road.  The  curve  of  the  shoreline  gives  it 
further  privacy,  and  from  every  room 
there  is  a  view  of  the  ever-changing 
waters  of  the  bay. 

In  the  gracious,  white-carpeted,  un- 
cluttered living  room,  furnishings  are  mod- 
ern. Mickey  has  combined  light  colors, 
dark  colors  and  accenting  bright  colors 
with  an  artist's  eye.  It's  a  room  which 
would  function  as  well  for  a  formal  party 
as  it  does  for  everyday  loafing  around.  On 
the  lower  level,  a  game  room,  also  used  for 
entertaining,  holds  Dennis'  sports  trophies 
and  pictures.  The  bedrooms,  also  done  in 
modern  style,  are  restful  and  spacious.  The 
large  dining  room  also  serves  to  display 
the  most  cherished  of  the  paintings  they 
have  collected,  and  for  just-family  meals, 
there's  a  glassed  dining  terrace  with  a 
wrought-iron  table  and  chairs. 

Heart  of  the  house,  for  Dennis  and 
Mickey  James — a  couple  with  varied  in- 
terests— is  the  upstairs  workroom.  In  it 
are  their  desks,  a  film  projector,  a  film 
cutting  table,  a  phonograph,  their  record 
collection  and  a  unique  artist's  easel  built 
for  two. 

S.aid  Dennis,  "I  designed  the  easel  and 
had  it  made  after  Mickey  taught  me  to 
paint.  I  learned  on  a  dare.  She  was  tak- 
ing forever  to  complete  a  portrait.  I  got 
tired  of  seeing  it  around,  so  I  said  if  she 
didn't  finish  it,  I  would.  She  replied, 
'Start  one  yourself,  smarty.'    So  I  did." 

Completing  the  tour  of  their  house, 
Dennis  spoke  with  a  householder's  pride. 
"You  can  see  that  here's  where  we  work, 
play  and  live.  When  I'm  through  with  a 
show,  I  come  home  and  relax,  or  take  the 
boat  out  across  the  Sound,  or  pick  up  a 
brush  and  start  to  paint.  When  I  must  go 
out  of  town,  Mickey  goes  with  me  and  we 
have  a  good  time.  Sure,  television  can  get 
tough,  but  what  other  business  would  give 
me  time  and  daylight  hours  to  enjoy  the 
things  I  like  best?" 

Yet,  much  as  he  enjoys  television,  in- 
evitably it  also  holds  some  abominations. 
While  he  is  the  kind  of  entertainer  who 
will  gladly  stop  to  sign  autographs,  realiz- 
ing that  the  interest  people  take  in  him 
has  been  responsible  for  bringing  him  the 
good  things  of  his  life,  he  has  also  run  the 
gauntlet  of  inconsiderate  fans  and  hated  it. 

His  pet  candidate  for  obscurity  is  the 
wise  boy  who  schemes  to  catch  him  smok- 
ing a  cigarette  other  than  his  sponsor's 
Old  Golds.  "It  was  successful  only  once," 
he  recalled,  "and  this  guy  must  really  have 
been  plotting  it.  We  were  at  a  big  party, 
there  was  a  lot  going  on,  it  was  getting 
late,  and  like  everyone  else,  I  ran  out  of 
cigarettes.  This  fellow  offered  me  one,  and 
automatically,  I  took  it.  You'd  have 
thought  I  tripped  the  burglar  alarm  of  the 
United  States  Mint.  All  of  a  sudden  there 
were  flash  bulbs  popping,  people  shouting, 
and  this  guy  laughing  like  a  hyena.  He 
really  figured  he  had  put  one  over  on  me." 

Another  uufavorite  is  the  man  who  says 
accusingly,  "You  don't  remember  me,  do 
you?" 

"I  pinned  one  of  those  fellows  down, 
once,"  said  Dennis  with  satisfaction.  "He 
claimed  he  had  sat  at  the  table  next  to 
mine  during  luncheon  at  the  Waldorf,  two 
years  earlier.  Well,  I  had  him.  I  had  never 
eaten  lunch  at  the  Waldorf." 

But  strictly  within  her  rights,  in  Dennis' 
estimation,  was  the  woman  waiting  in  line 
to  enter  a  studio.  As  Dennis  passed,  she 
said,   "Good   gracious,   you've   gotten  fat." 

"And  she  was  right,"  Dennis  conceded. 
"Since  people  have  to  look  at  an  enter- 
tainer, they  have  a  right  to  expect  him 
not  to  get  sloppy.  I  went  home,  started  a 
diet  and  took  off  twenty-five  pounds." 


Helps  you  to  I 

KEEP 
CALM 


MILES 

NERVINE 


On  those  days 
when  things  seem 
to  go  wrong,  it's 
only  human  to 
feel  tense  and  keyed-up.  So,  feel  calm  .  .  . 
relax,  with  MILES  NERVINE!  MILES 
NERVINE  soothes  nervous  tension,  and  helps 
you  feel  better!  Follow  the  label,  avoid  ex- 
cessive use.  MILES  NERVINE  is  sold  at  all 
drugstores,  in  effervescent  tablets  and  liquid. 


MILES 


NERVINE 


ONlYf 


If  you  need  more  money., 


Up  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cos- 
metics, your  neighborhood. 
Free   Samples    and    details 
:»i  °!a!"mT^\ supplied.  Write  to: 
t"  Guaranteed  by*^\     mn  ™™.  Pies. 
Good  Housekeeping  )    ..  .Studio  Girl- 
''£»o,  ,»«*•     Hollywood  Cosmetics 

hfc'"; "    — "I"! i  ll  hi      Calif.,  DeptTS-15 


MATERNITY 
Style  Book  fgBB 


NEW  Fifth  Avenue  styles  keep 
you  smart  throughout  pregnancy. 
Adjust  easily.  Dresses  S2.98  up; 
also  supporters,  undies.  Every- 
thing tor  Baby,  too.  Low  prices. 
FB.EE  Book  in  plain  wrapper. 
LANE  BRYANT,  Depl.  903 
Indianapolis  17,  Indiana 


Nasal     Congestion     Associated     With     Head 
Colds  May  Cause  Symptoms  Of 

SINUS 

ASTHMA,  HAY  FEVER. 

Amazing     New     Treatment  —  FREE     TRIAL 

Thousands  have  received  amazing,  fast  relief  with  this 
sensational,  new  treatment,  from  symptoms  of  hay 
fever,  asthma,  sinus  headaches,  pressure  in  forehead, 
soreness  in  eyes,  cheek  bones,  top  of  head,  back  of 
head  and  down  neck,  when  caused  by  nasal  congestion. 
Write  for  7  DAY  FREE  TRIAL,  POSTPAID,  no  cost  or 
obligation  to  try  it  except;  it  is  agreed  you  will  mail  it 
back,  postpaid  at  end  of  trial  period  if  not  amazed 
with  results. 

National  Laboratories,  Dept.  S52,  Galf,  Calif. 
Offer  not  good  in  California. 


No  High  School  Necessary;  No  Age  Limit 

"'"  TSend  for  sample  lesson  and  nurse's  booklet. 
It's  FREE  ...  no  obligation.  Just  mail  coupon. 
See  for  yourself  how  easy  it  is  to  get  BIG  PAY  .  .  . 
gain  social  prestige  and  financial  independence  as 
a  POST  GRADUATE  HOSPITAL  trained  PRACTICAL  NURSE. 
Learn  at  home  while  you  earn.  Don't  delay. 
Send  coupon  NOW! 


•  POST  GRADUATE  HOSPITAL  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING       * 

*  9CIS  Auditorium  Bldg.                                  Chicogo  5,  III.* 

tWlMF                                                                                                                * 

T 
V 
R 

•  addrfss                                                                • 

•  CITY                                                                 STATF                           at 

RS 

(Continued  from  page  36) 
with  the  chaperones?"   I  said.    And  then 
I   mounted   my    bicycle    and    pedalled    off 
toward  the  set. 

I  no  more  than  got  around  the  corner 
before  I  was  awash  with  the  sinking 
sensation  that  comes  over  me  occasionally 
after  speaking  with  Bing.  That  fast  ex- 
change of  patter  in  front  of  our  dressing 
rooms  was  typical  of  our  friendship,  yet 
I  couldn't  help  feeling  I  was  a  pretty 
brash  character  to  be  even  talking  to  him, 
much  less  kidding  with  him.  Who  was  I, 
the  upstart  from  Maysville,  to  stand  face 
to  face  with  Bing  Crosby? 

Maybe  it  would  be  a  good  idea  if  I  tried 
to  explain  this  worship  that  other  singers 
have  for  Bing.  He's  idolized  by  millions 
of  people  who  can't  even  carry  a  tune,  I 
know — but  to  somebody  who  earns  a  liv- 
ing by  singing  in  show  business,  he  is  the 
absolute  end.  Show  people  can  talk  all 
night  about  singers,  Perry  and  Frank  and 
the  whole  lot — and  then  there  is  Bing. 
The  man  is  an  institution  all  by  himself, 
and  he  has  a  way  of  spinning  out  a  melody 
that  no  other  singer  can  touch.  He  stands 
alone,  and  I  know  I  speak  for  all  of  us 
whose  pipes  earn  our  bread  and  butter, 
when  I  say  that  we,  individually  and  as  a 
group,  bow  low  to  Mr.  Crosby.  And  are 
happy  to  do  it. 

Now  that  you  know  why  I  can't  help 
getting  down  on  my  knees  and  then  step- 
ping on  myself  whenever  I  see  him,  let's 
go  back  to  the  scene  where  I'm  on  my 
bike,  chastising  myself  for  being  so  sassy 
with  the  master.  When  I'm  about  halfway 
through  with  this  routine,  another  wave  of 
remorse  dashes  over  me.  This  one's  be- 
cause I  know  that  Bing  likes  me  to  be  flip 
with  him — that  way,  he  knows  I'm  at  ease. 
Which  is  the  way  it  should  be,  because 
Bing  is  my  friend,  not  Svengali. 

It  took  me  a  while  to  learn  this.  When 
I  first  met  him,  I'd  been  with  Paramount 
only  a  few  short  weeks  and  was  still  get- 
ting my  bearings.  I  wasn't  even  prepared 
for  having  a  dressing  room  with  a  rug  on 
the  floor  (or  a  floor) — let  alone  meeting 
Bing  Crosby — and  then,  suddenly,  there 
he  was  in  front  of  me  and  somebody  was 
introducing  us.  I  must  have  turned  gray. 
I  wouldn't  know.  But  I  do  remember 
there  was  a  strange  sensation  just  in  back 
of  my  eyes  that  felt  as  though  my  whole 


There's  Only  One  Bing! 

face  was  sagging,  as  in  a  jet  take-off.  In 
short,  I  reacted  like  a  knobhead.  They 
told  me  afterward  that  Bing  had  made  a 
stab  at  conversation  (one  of  us  had  to). 
He  said  something  about  a  radio  show  we 
were  to  do  together,  and  asked  if  I  knew 
when  it  would  take  place.  And  I,  with  all 
the  savoir-faire  of  the  Missing  Link,  had 
mumbled  "Some  time  in  the  20's." 

When  I  thought,  afterward,  of  how  this 
must  have  embarrassed  Bing,  I  wanted  to 
put  my  head  under  a  pile-driver.  I  had 
been  so  ridiculous,  I  was  so  ashamed  of 
myself.  I  had  been  impressed,  and  nothing 
makes  Bing  so  uncomfortable  as  people 
who  are  impressed.  After  getting  off  to 
such  a  stumbling  start,  I  had  plenty  of 
chances  to  make  it  up  to  him,  for  after 
that  we  did  a  lot  of  shows  together.  I 
apologized  to  him,  and  to  myself  I  said, 
"Watch  yourself,  mother.  Don't  let  him 
know  ever  again  that  your  knees  have 
turned  to  water.  Do  this  by  the  simple 
process  of  not  letting  your  knees  turn  to 
water." 

It  was  a  great  little  sermon  and,  except 
for  infrequent  lapses,  I've  stuck  to  my 
guns.  It's  been  easier  since  I've  come  to 
know  Bing  better,  and  I  think  I've  had  this 
opportunity  mainly  because  of  my  old 
man,  known  formally  as  Jose  Ferrer.  Joe 
says  it's  the  other  way  around.  He  says 
he  married  me  because  I  had  the  distinc- 
tion of  knowing  Bing  first. 

If  you  think  I'm  a  Crosby  fan,  you 
should  know  Joe.  That  man's  Crosby 
crazy.  After  he'd  finished  "Moulin  Rouge" 
and  boarded  the  lie  de  France  at  Le  Havre 
to  come  back  to  the  States,  he  called  me 
in  Hollywood  from  the  boat.  "Guess 
what!"  he  said.  "I  hear  Bing's  going  to  get 
on  the  ship  tonight  when  we  stop  off  at 
Southampton." 

"Wonderful,"  I  said.  "Tell  him  hello  for 
me." 

"You  know  him.  I  don't."  I  really  think 
Joe  was  afraid  to  speak  to  him.  It  was  as 
if  the  King  of  Sweden  were  going  to 
board  the  ship — except  that  Joe  wouldn't 
be  half  as  uneasy  with  a  king  as  he  would 
with  Bing  Crosby.  The  following  day,  Joe 
called  and  reported  he'd  watched  Bing 
come  on  the  ship,  and  the  next  day  he 
was  as  happy  on  the  phone  as  a  kid  who's 
had  Santa  Claus  over  for  dinner.  It  seems 
they'd  finally  found   each   other   and  had 


84 


STATEMENT  OF  THE  OWNERSHIP.  MANAGEMENT,  AND  CIRCULATION  REQUIRED  BY  THE  ACT 
OF  CONGRESS  OF  AUGUST  24.  1912.  AS  AMENDED  BY  THE  ACTS  OF  MARCH  3.  1933.  AND 
JULY  2.  1946  (Title  39,  United  States  Code.  Section  233)  Of  TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  published  Monthly  at 
New  York,  N.   Y.,  for  October  1,  1954. 

1.  The  names  and  addresses  of  the  publisher,  editor,  managing  editor,  and  business  managers  are:  Publisher, 
Macfadden  Publications.  Inc..  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ;  Editor.  Ann  Higginbotham.  205  East 
42nd  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ;  Managing  Editor,  Ann  Mosher,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.; 
Secretary-Treasurer.   Meyer  Dworkin,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

2.  The  owner  is:  (if  owned  by  a  corporation,  its  name  and  address  must  be  stated  and  also  immediately 
thereunder  the  names  and  addresses  of  stockholders  owning  or  holding  1  percent  or  more  of  total  amount 
of  stock.  If  not  owned  by  a  corporation,  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  individual  owners  must  be  given. 
If  owned  by  a  partnership  or  other  unincorporated  firm,  its  name  and  address,  as  well  as  that  of  each 
individual  member,  must  he  given.)  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc.,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ; 
Abraham  &  Co.,  120  Broadway.  New  York  5.  N.  Y.  ;  Meyer  Dworkin,  c/o  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc.,  205 
East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ;  (Mrs.)  Anna  Feldman,  835  Main  St..  Peekskill,  N.  Y. ;  King  &  Co.,  c/o 
City  Hank  Farmers  Trust  Co.,  22  William  St..  New  York  15.  N.  Y.  ;  Henry  Lieferant.  The  Hotel  Hamilton, 
Apt.  1205,  141  West  73rd  St..  New  York  23.  N.  Y.  ;  (Mrs.)  Elizabeth  Machlin.  c/o  Art  Color  Printing  Co., 
Dunellen,  N.  J.;  (Mrs.)  Margaret  Machlin  (deceased),  c/o  Armstrong  Rubber  Co.,  475  Elm  St..  West  Haven 
16,  (  onn.;  Irving  S.  Manheimer.  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. ;  (Mrs.)  Ruth  B.  Manheimer,  Somers- 
town  Kd..  Ossining,  N.  Y. ;  Samuel  Scheff.  1841  Broadway,  New  York  23,  N.  Y. ;  Joseph  Schultz.  205  East 
42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.;  Arnold  A.  Schwartz,  c/o  A.  A.  Whitford,  Inc..  705  Park  Ave..  Plainfield,  N.  J.; 
Charles  H.  Shattuck,  Box  422,  Pharr,  Texas;  Harold  A.  Wise,  R.F.D.  1,  Box  159,  Onacock,  Va. 

3.  The  known  bondholders,  mortgagees,  and  other  security  holders  owning  or  holding  1  percent  or  more 
of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages,  or  other  securities  are:  (If  there  are  none,  so  state.)  City  Bank  Farmers 
Trust  Co.,  Trustee  tor  Mary  Macfadden.  22  William  St..  New  York  15.  N.  Y.  ;  Walter  W.  Flint,  Cottonwood, 
Idaho;  James  John  Johnson,  Box  115.  Soring.  Wisconsin:  (Mrs.)  Mary  Macfadden,  406  E.  Linden  Ave., 
Englewood,  N.  I.;  O'.Wil  &  Co.,  P.O.  Box  28.  Wall  Street  Station.  New  York  5,  N.  Y. ;  (Mrs.)  Braunda  Mac- 
fadden St.  Phillip,  400  Linden  Ave..  Englewood,  N.  J.;  Arnold  A.  Schwartz,  c/o  A.  A.  Whitford,  Inc.,  705  Park 
Ave..    Plainfield,    N.    J.;  Charles   II.    Shattuck,    Box   422.    Pharr,   Texas. 

4.  Paragraphs  2  and  3  include,  in  cases  where  the  stockholder  or  security  holder  appears  upon  the  books 
of  the  company  as  trustee  or  in  any  other  fiduciary  relation,  the  name  of  the  person  or  corporation  for  whom 
such  trustee  is  acting:  also  the  statements  in  the  two  paragraphs  show  the  affiant's  full  knowledge  and  belief 
..  to  the  circumstances  anil  conditions  under  which  stockholders  and  security  holders  who  do  not  appear  upon 
the  books  of  the  company  as  trustees,  hold  stock  and  securities  in  a  capacity  other  than  that  of 
a  bona  fide  owner. 

5  The  average  number  of  copies  of  each  issue  of  this  publication  sold  or  distributed,  through  the  mails 
or  otherwise,  to  paid  subscribers  <luring  the  12  months  preceding  the  date  shown  above  was:  (This 
information  is  required  from  daily,  weekly,  semiweekly,  and  triweekly  newspapers  only.) 

(Signed)    MEYER   DWORKIN,   Secretary-Treasurer 
Sworn  to  and  subscribed  before  me  this  27th  day  of  September,  1954. 

(SEAL)  TULLIO  MUCELLI 

Notary  Public,  State  of  New  York 

No.  03-8045500 

Qualified  in  Bronx  County 

Commission   Expires   March  30,  1956 


spent  half  the  night  discussing  jazz.  Bing 
couldn't  have  been  too  surprised  at  Fer- 
rer's fund  of  knowledge  on  the  subject — 
I'd  already  told  him  how  much  Joe  ad- 
mired him  and  that  he  was  a  jazz  fan, 
among  three  thousand  other  things.  This 
kind  of  proxy  introduction  could  have 
served  to  break  the  ice  between  them,  but 
with  Joe  and  Bing  there  wasn't  any  ice 
to  be  broken.  Joe  has  Crosby  records  in 
his  collection  that  Bing  has  long  forgotten, 
and  the  talks  they  had  on  board  ship  have 
developed  into  a  fast  friendship.  They  cor- 
respond all  the  time  and  write  each  other 
about  bands  and  singers  I  never  heard  of — 
bands  and  singers  that  maybe  never  got 
out  of  their  home  town — but,  if  they  are 
good,  Bing  and  Joe  know  about  them. 

I  stumped  Bing  on  one,  though.  Joe  had 
given  me  an  old  recording  of  his  own  band 
at  Princeton  doing  "Sweet  Georgia  Brown." 
It  was  a  rare  and  restless  rendition  which 
came  near  to  melting  the  wax  off  the  rec- 
ord— and,  to  top  it  off,  Joe  had  sung  the 
lyrics  in  the  style  of  Crosby,  who  was  then 
only  getting  started.  I  played  the  record 
for  Bing  one  day  at  the  studio  and  dared 
him  to  guess  the  identity  of  the  vocalist. 
He  sat  and  listened  quietly,  and  when 
Ferrer  began  to  croon  a  slow  grin  spread 
over  Bing's  face.  When  it  was  finished,  I 
turned  off  the  phonograph  and  faced  him. 
"Well?" 

"Don't  know,"  he  said.  "But  I  think  I 
recognize  the  technique." 

His  sense  of  humor  is  so  identical  to 
Joe's  that  it's  small  wonder  they  get  along 
so  well.  When  Joe  went  to  New  York  to 
do  a  series  of  plays  at  the  City  Center, 
Bing  sent  him  a  wire  from  Hollywood  on 
opening  night,   "do  the  best  you  can.   the 

FAMILY'S   ALL  ON  THE   WEST  COAST." 

In  the  last  two  months,  what  with  all 
this  camaraderie  between  my  husband  and 
Bing,  I've  come  to  the  point  where  I  can 
hold  a  reasonable  facsimile  of  a  conversa- 
tion with  him.  The  fact  that  I  can  is  some- 
what of  a  milestone,  because  Bing  as  a 
rule  talks  easier  with  men  than  he  does 
with  women.  For  some  reason,  he  thinks 
I'm  funny  and  this  helps,  for  once  I've  got 
an  audience,  I'm  on. 

Bing  teases  me  without  mercy  about  my 
appetite,  a  trait  with  which  I  was  born 
and  haven't  shed  to  any  noticeable  degree. 
If  there's  a  pretzel  or  a  sandwich  around, 
I  eat  it,  and  Bing  calls  me  the  Buffet  Ban- 
dit of  Bourbon  County.  I  swear  he  has 
spies  on  the  set.  I  can  notice  a  "prop" 
lunch  stuck  in  a  dark  corner  for  a  future 
scene  and  I  can  sneak  into  that  same  dark 
corner  to  grab  a  bite — they  might  be 
props,  but  they're  food — and  Bing  will  find 
out  about  it.   Every  time. 

That  famous  relaxation  of  his  might  be 
a  fact,  but  it  doesn't  mean  he's  unaware 
of  what  goes  on  around  him,  or  uninter- 
ested. He's  much  more  sensitive  than 
people  give  him  credit  for,  particularly  to 
other  people's  discomfort.  When  I  first 
sang  with  him,  I  took  his  unworried,  un- 
hurried attitude  to  mean  "Clooney's  doing 
all  right."  This  was  probably  as  far  from 
the  truth  as  Maine  is  from  Manchuria,  but 
the  sum  total  of  it  was  that  I  did  feel  more 
comfortable.  And  to  get  me  in  that  state 
took  some  doing.  The  fact  was  that  I  had 
been  close  to  being  petrified  with  fright. 
Sing  with  Bing,  that's  no  ordinary  order. 
It's  like  telling  a  hack  writer  to  collaborate 
with  Somerset  Maugham  on  a  novel.  The 
mere  thought  can  harden  your  arteries. 
My  own  were  well  on  the  way  by  the  time 
I  stood  next  to  Bing  with  the  music  in  my 
hand,  but  it  was  his  nonchalance  which 
helped  me  get  back  to  normal. 

And,  singing  with  him,  I  found  a  new 
experience.    This  is  "shop  talk"  and  per- 


haps  difficult  to  put  over,  but  I'm  going  to 
try.  I've  recorded  with  almost  every  other 
singer  in  the  business,  but  I  never  get  the 
feeling  I  have  when  I  sing  with  Bing.  It's 
a  strange  sort  of  a  communion.  With  other 
singers,  you  wonder  how  they're  going  to 
phrase  the  next  line,  have  to  watch  their 
faces  for  some  expression  that  will  let  you 
know.  With  Bing,  I  stand  across  from  him, 
in  front  of  the  mike,  and  I  don't  even  have 
to  look  at  the  music.  I  know  how  he'll 
handle  the  next  bit  of  the  lyrics  and  I  sail 
right  in  with  him.  I  don't  know  how  I 
know.    I  just  know. 

"Rosie  works  the  same  way  I  do,"  he 
told  somebody  once.  And,  as  if  that  wasn't 
enough  to  put  me  into  a  size-26  hat,  he 
has  told  others  that  he  likes  the  way  I 
sing.  He's  never  told  me  so  to  my  face — 
Bing  doesn't  do  things  that  way — but  hear- 
ing the  compliment  via  others  has  meant 
more  to  me.  It's  made  working  with  him 
pure  pleasure,  and  fun.  Once  we  were  to 
sing  "It  Takes  Two  to  Tango"  on  a  show, 
and  he  "threw"  me  during  rehearsals  with 
the  lines,  "You  can  laugh  like  a  goon  by 
yourself,  You  can  be  a  Rosie  Cloon  by 
yourself." 

Luckily,  I  married  a  clever  fellow,  so 
Joe  supplied  me  with  the  lines  to  follow: 
"Be  like  Bing,  learn  to  sing  and  to  groan, 
There  are  lots  of  things  that  you  can  do 
alone." 

When  I  came  out  with  that,  Bing  hit 
me  over  the  head  with  the  script. 

"White  Christmas"  was  a  wonderful  pic- 
ture to  make,  in  company  with  people  like 
Bing  and  Vera-Ellen  and  Danny  Kaye— 
and  director  Mike  Curtiz,  who  called  Bing 
"Binki"  and  made  the  set  merry  with  his 
Curtiz-isms.  (Such  as  the  day  he  walked 
'round  and  'round  Crosby,  inspecting  him 
carefully.  "Binki,"  he  said,  "before  this 
scene  you  should  have  a  haircut.  It's 
struggling  in  the  back.") 

We  had  a  lot  of  laughs  on  the  set  and 
off.  My  kid  sister  Betty  visited  me  while 
we  were  making  the  picture,  and  Bing 
took  us  to  a  football  game.  The  local  Rams 
were  playing  the  Detroit  Lions  and,  inas- 
much as  Betty  lives  in  Detroit,  her  senti- 
ments were  in  direct  opposition  to  ours. 
She  screamed  her  head  off  and  Bing  teased 
her,  and  for  a  moment  I  had  the  crashing 
brainstorm  that  maybe  I  could  marry  her 
up  and  we'd  have  Bing  in  the  family.  But 
the  nearest  we  ever  got  to  that  was  Betty's 
heart-to-heart  talk  with  Bing  about  the 
horses  she's  bought  to  raise  in  Kentucky. 
After  their  conversation  left  the  stable,  I 
nodded  brightly  at  Bing. 

"Nice  girl,  huh?"  I  said. 

"Nice  girl,"  he  said,  and  grinned.  "Too 
young." 

"It  was  a  thought,"  I  said  lamely. 

Bing's  fun  is  wonderful,  but  his  serious 
side  is  even  better.  Take  what  he  did  for 
Vera-Ellen.  Vera  came  to  Paramount  for 
"White  Christmas"  at  a  time  when  the  lot 
was  jammed  with  contract  players  as  well 
as  visiting  stars.  The  only  available  dress- 
ing room  was  a  tiny  space  hardly  big 
enough  to  turn  around  in.  Bing  noticed 
this  and  phoned  the  producer.  He  wanted 
to  know  why  Vera  had  been  squeezed  into 
the  smallest  dressing  room  on  the  lot. 

"It's  the  only  one  we  have,"  the  pro- 
ducer said.  "It's  too  bad,  but  we're  awfully 
crowded  right  now." 

"Okay,"  said  Mr.  Crosby.  "The  least  we 
can  do  is  re-decorate  it  for  her." 

Nobody  said  anything  about  the  pitch 
from  Bing,  but  within  a  few  days  Vera 
had  a  newly  papered  and  painted  room, 
brightened  with  new  furniture.  I'm  not 
even  sure  Vera  knew  what  caused  it,  and 
for  all  I  know  she  may  learn  it  for  the  first 
time  when  she  reads  it  here. 

Bing's  like  that.  He  seems  unaware  of 
what  goes  on  around  him,  but  in  reality 
there  isn't  a  happy  or  unhappy  wave  that 


goes  through  a  room  without  his  being 
conscious  of  it.  Shortly  before  Joe  and  I 
were  married,  I  appeared  as  a  guest  on 
Bing's  radio  show  and,  although  there  had 
been  no  announcement  of  the  forthcoming 
wedding,  it  was  a  foregone  conclusion 
among  friends  that  someday  I  would  be- 
come Mrs.  Ferrer.  One  of  the  writers  on 
the  show  had  made  some  reference  to  this 
in  a  gag — something  about  tin  cans  on 
the  back  of  my  car.  I  never  saw  the  orig- 
inal script,  but  I  learned  later  that  Bing 
had  deleted  the  whole  bit,  knowing  in- 
stinctively that  was  the  way  Joe  and  I 
would  have  wanted  it. 

Bing  is  a  thoughtful  man,  and  a  kind 
one.  In  "White  Christmas"  there  must 
have  been  twenty  or  thirty  children,  kids 
who  had  dancing  or  singing  parts.  After 
they'd  once  been  introduced  to  Bing,  he 
never  forgot  their  names,  and  you  could 
see  the  kids'  faces  light  up  with  pleasure 
when  he  addressed  them  by  name. 

He  has  a  way  with  kids,  which  is  evi- 
dent when  you  meet  his  own.  Lindsay's 
the  only  one  I  know  so  far,  but  if  he  is 
any  example  of  the  other  three,  Bing  is 
the  best  father  a  boy  could  have.  Linny 
was  about  fourteen,  I  guess,  when  I  first 
met  him  on  one  of  Bing's  radio  shows, 
and  later,  when  the  show  was  taped  at 
Pebble  Beach  while  Bing  was  there  for 
the  golf  tournament,  the  whole  gang  stayed 
up  there. 

It  was  then  I  got  to  know  L.  Crosby, 
and  the  kid  stole  my  heart.  He's  polite 
but  not  inhibited.  He's  fun  to  be  with, 
like  his  dad,  and  has  the  same  manner- 
isms, the  same  sharp  wit,  the  same  way 
of  dropping  the  funniest  remark  out  of 
the  blue.  You  don't  see  Bing  ladling  out 
any  discipline  but  you  can  tell  it's  there, 
for  Linny  adores  his  father. 

1  don't  suppose  it's  easy  to  be  Bing 
Crosby.  Wherever  he  goes,  he's  the  center 
of  attention,  and  yet  I've  never  seen  him 
taut.  I've  never  seen  him  moody,  never 
seen  him  lose  his  temper,  nor  show  any 
sign  of  strain.  I've  never  heard  him  say 
an  unkind  thing  about  anybody.  He  seems 
to  float  along  without  effort  despite  the 
pressure. 

I'd  say  that  Bing  Crosby  is  a  happy 
man,  simply  because  he  is  kind  and  good 
to  other  people.  All  he  asks  is  privacy, 
and  friends  in  whom  he  can  place  his  con- 
fidence. I  like  to  think  I'm  one  of  those 
friends,  although  I  seem  to  insist  on  "goof- 
ing" in  minor  matters.  I  know,  for  in- 
stance, that  Bing  does  a  hilarious  take-off 
on  a  soprano  and — having  been  doubled 
into  hysterics  a  few  times  by  listening  to 
this  bit — I  suggested  one  day  that  he  do  it 
for  a  writer  who  was  talking  to  us.  Bing 
begged  off,  and  I  was  ashamed  of  myself 
because  I'd  let  him  down. 

Another  time,  I  showed  him  a  letter 
which  embarrassed  him  pink.  But  I 
couldn't  help  it.  The  letter  was  from  my 
father,  written  not  long  after  he  had  visited 
Hollywood.  While  he  was  here,  Pop  had 
met  Bing  and,  because  Mr.  Crosby  isn't 
one  to  talk  about  himself,  the  conversa- 
tion centered  around  Pop  and  what  he 
was  doing.  I  didn't  realize  what  an  im- 
pression Bing  had  made  until  I  got  the 
letter.  In  it,  Pop  wrote:  "I  remember 
listening  to  Bing  Crosby  back  during  De- 
pression days,  and  no  matter  how  black 
things  looked  or  how  troubled  I  was,  I 
always  felt  a  little  bit  better  when  I  heard 
Bing  sing.  And  then  when  I  met  him,  I 
felt  wonderful  again.    He's  quite   a  guy." 

I  don't  have  the  sense  I  was  born  with, 
of  course,  so  I  took  the  letter  to  the  studio 
and  showed  it  to  Bing.  It  might  have  em- 
barrassed him,  but  at  least  that  was  one 
time  I  forgot  he  is  my  idol  and  remem- 
bered instead  that  he  is  my  friend.  Be- 
cause when  anybody  likes  my  friend,  I 
want  my  friend  to  know  it. 


Thousands 

of  Pregnant 

Women  .  .  • 


Thousands  find  relief  and 
comfort  with  MOTHER'S 
FRIEND  .  .  .  The  famous, 
mild,  skin  lubricant  that 
soothes  tight,  dry  skin  and 
eases  numbing,  tingling 
muscles  in  back  and  legs. 
Enjoy  this  refreshing  skin 
conditioner.  /j>>!f*&\ 

$1.25  at  all  \parIntsj) 
Drug  Stores         %^^ 


FREE!  TIPS  TO   EXPECTANT   MOTHERS 
Valuable   Booklet  with   Every   Bottle  of 

Mothers  Friend 


can  be  yours  for  help- 
ing us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions. 
Write  for  FREE  information:  TV  RADIO  MIR- 
ROR, 205  East  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17.  N.  Y. 


money 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


VII 

^M ,  J  ■  Why  continue  to  sutler  without  attempt- 

i  ^m    l  H  ing  to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New 

Jm    J    ■  Booklet— "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 

■  ifl  HOME    USE."    It    tells    about    Varicose 

Hf  ^M  Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 

^■t  ^^31  used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 

BesHm  success.  Praised  and  en-| 
dorsed  by  multitudes. 

LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., 
Dept  A-47,     Milwaukee   12,  Wisconsin! 


Happy  Is  The  Day 
When  Backache 
Goes  Away . . . . 

Nagging  backache,  loss  of  pep  and  energy,  head- 
aches and  dizziness  may  be  due  to  slowdown  of  kidney 
function.  Doctors  say  good  kidney  function  is  very 
important  to  good  health.  When  some  everyday  con- 
dition, such  as  stress  and  strain,  causes  this  im- 
portant function  to  slow  down,  many  folks  suffer 
nagging  backache— feel  miserable.  Minor  bladder 
irritations  due  to  cold  or  wrong  diet  may  cause 
getting  up  nights  or  frequent  passages. 

Don't  neglect  your  kidneys  if  these  conditions 
bother  you.  Try  Doan's  Pills— a  mild  diuretic.  Used 
successfully  by  millions  for  over  50  years.  It's  amaz- 
ing how  many  times  Doan's  give  happy  relief  from 
these  discomforts— help  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes 
and  filters  flush  out  waste.  Get  Doan's  Pills  todayl 


IF  YOU  SUFFER 

OAiJkl    of  HEADACHE 
rjMm&W  NEURALGIA 

NEURITIS 


get 


SBUBF 


with 


the  way  thousands  of 

physicians  and  dentists  recommend. 

HERE'S  WHY  .  .  .  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's 
prescription.  That  is,  Anacin  contains  not 
just  one  but  a  combination  of  medically 
proved  active  ingredients.  No  other  product 
gives  faster,  longer-lasting  relief  from  pain 
of  headache,  neuralgia,  neuritis  than  Anacin 
tablets.  Buy  Anacin®  todayl 


85 


New  Designs  for  Living 


7242— She's  a  doll— she's  a  'Jama  Bag! 
Teach  youngsters  the  neatness  habit.  They 
can  stuff  their  P.  J.'s  into  the  slit  in 
back.  Embroidery  transfer,  directions.  25$ 

7282 — Add  luxury  to  your  living  room 
with  this  chair  set  in  spider-web  with 
pineapple  design.  Chairback  11"  x  17", 
arm  rest  5"  x  11",  in  No.  30  cotton.  25$ 

666 — Just  two  main  pattern  parts  to  cut 
out,  stitch  up.  Use  quilted  scraps — 
bind  with  colorful  cotton,  velvet,  wool. 
Pattern  pieces  for  Sizes  Small,  Medium, 
Large.     Extra-Large    included.     25$ 

746 — Inspired  by  authentic  old-time  cars. 
Embroider  them  in  outline  and  quick 
cross-stitch.  Frame  a  set  for  your  living 
room,  or  use  them  on  "conversation" 
towels.  Six  transfers,  about  5"  x  61/£".  25$ 

7140 — Dress  up  your  home  with  this 
doily  in  pineapple  design  and  spider-web 
stitch  combined  in  a  graceful  arrange- 
ment. Doily  16"  x  21",  in  No.  30  cotton; 
24"  x  32",  in  heavy  cotton.  25$ 

689 — Baskets  of  color — daisies,  roses  and 
petunias  in  combination  of  green,  pink, 
blue — to  iron  on  linens.  No  embroidery, 
washable.    Transfer  for   six  motifs;   four 

6"x3%",  two  8"x4y2".  25$ 


IRON-ON  COLOR  DESIGNS 
IN  GREEN,  PINK,  BLUE 


•      Send   twenty-Jive  cents   (in  coins)   for  each  pattern  to: 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  Needlecraft  Service, 
P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11, 
New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern 
for  first-class  mailing. 

i: 

NAME 

ADDRESS 

,    CITY 

|    STATE 

I      Send  an  additional  twenty  cents  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


Kotex  now  comes  in  this  soft  grey  package 


Selected  by  thousands  of  women  as  first  choice  of 
many  designs  —  this  new  Kotex*  package  reflects 
the  quality  you've  learned  to  trust.  For  Kotex 
gives  you  the  complete  absorbency  you  need  .  .  . 
the  softness  you're  sure  of. 

Kotex  holds  its  shape,  keeps  its  comfortable  fit. 
Moreover,  this  is  the  only  leading  napkin  with 
flat  pressed  ends  to  prevent  revealing  outlines. 
So  look  for  the  new  Kotex  package  — soft  grey, 
with  a  graceful  K,  symbol  of  highest  quality. 


MORE      WOMEN       CHOOSE       KOTEX      THAN       ALL       OTHER      SANITARY      NAPKINS 


Your  choice  of  throe  size*. 
Regular— blue  panel:  Junior 
—  green  panel ;  Super  — 
rose  panel.  And  with  kotex 
you'll  want  a  new  Kotex 
belt.  They  go  together  for 
perfect  comfort. 


T.  M     REG.    U.   S.   PAT.  OFF. 


e  au 


ir 


C 


K 


The  Three  Breck 


J   ')    II    S  II 

N      V     W  Y 


II    K    K  C   K 

t>     K      K 


Shampoos  are 

INC 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR    THREE    DIFFERENT    HAIR    CONDITIONS 

You  will  enjoy  using  a  Breck  Shampoo  because  it  is  gentle 
in  action  and  not  drying  to  the  hair.  There  are  three  Breck 
Shampoos.  One  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair.  Another 
Breck  Shampoo  is  for  oily  hair.  A  third  Breck  Shampoo  is  for 
normal  hair.  The  next  time  you  buy  a  shampoo,  select  the 
Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual  hair  condition.  A  Breck 
Shampoo  will  leave  your  hair  soft,    fragrant  and   beautiful. 

available  al  Beauty  Shops,  Dru«  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 


MAO  F  A  C  T  U  R  I  N  G 

C     A     c;     O  •  SAN 


CHEMISTS  SPRINGFIELD       J       MASSACHUSETTS 

FRANCISCO  •  OTTAWA  CANADA 


MIRRO 


n  dKr 


Babies  have  That  Ivory  Look  .  .  .  shouldn't  you? 
The  milder  the  beauty  soap,  the  prettier  your  skin. 
And  Ivory  is  mild  enough  for  a  baby's  skin  ...  so 
right  for  your  complexion,  too. 


W 


That 
Ivory  Look 

Young  America  has  it... 
You  can  have  it  in  7 days! 


That  Ivory  Look  for  you  in  7  days. 
Simply  change  to  regular  care  and 
pure,  mild  Ivory  Soap.  In  one  week 
your  complexion  will  look  fresher, 
clearer  —  actually  younger. 


•  ■ 


V 


•**; 


You  get  4  cakes  of  Personal  Size 

Ivory  for  about  the  same  cost  as 

3  cakes  oj  other  leading  toilet  soaps 


More  doctors  advise  Ivory  than  any  other  soap 


Wha+?...You  haven't  tasted  NEWIMNA? 


a- 


a 


.a...ah! 


/^"°" 


FIGHTS  DECAY  the  BEST-TASTING  way 


Destroys  hidden  decay  and 
bad-breath  bacteria 


Wonder-ingredient  WD -9 
in  new-formula  Ipana 
Tooth  Paste  is  so  effective 
that  it  destroys  most  mouth 
bacteria  with  even7  single 
brushing.  Your  family's 
teeth  get  the  decay-fighting 
protection  they  need. 


Beats  all  other  leading  brands 
in  taste  tests 

New-formula  Ipana  is  the  best-tasting 
way  to  fight  tooth  decay  .  .  .  stop  bad 
breath  all  day.  That  was  proved  after 
3888  "hidden-name"  taste  tests.  So  taste 
Ipana  yourself  today  .  .  .  enjoy  it  .  .  . 
trust  your  family's  precious  teeth  to  it.  At 
all  drug  counters  now  in  the  familiar  yel- 
low and  red-striped  carton. 


^    It 


New-Formula  IRANA 

WITH  BACTERIA-DESTROYER  WD-9 


Ipana  A/C  Tooth  Paste  (Ammoniated  Chlorophyll)  also  contains  bacteria-destroyer  WD-9  (Sodium  Lauryl  Sulfate). 


^--  MAKE  YOUR  OWN  TASTE  TEST 


Send  for  generous  sample  tube.  Mail 
coupon  today  for  trial  tube  (enough 
for  about  25  brushings) . 

Bristol-Myers  Co.,  Dept.  T-25 
Hillside,  New  Jersey. 

Please  send  trial  tube  of  new-formula 
Ipana.  Enclosed  is  3f^  stamp  to  cover 
part  cost  of  handling. 

Name 


Street- 


City- 


-Zone State_ 


(Offer  good  only  in  continental  U.S.A. 
Expires  May  1,  1955.) 


NEW! 

DOCTORS 
DEODORANT 
DISCOVERY 

SAFELY  STOPS  ODOR 
24  HOURS  A  DAY! 


I 


Proved  in  underarm  comparison  tests  made 
by  a  doctor.  Deodorant  without  M-3, tested 
under  one  arm,  stopped  perspiration  odor 
only  a  few  hours.  New  Mum  with  M-3, 
tested  under  other  arm,  stopped  odor  a 
full  24  hours. 


New  Mum  with  M-3 

won't  irritate  normal  skin 

or  damage  fabrics 

1 .  *Exclusive  deodorant  based  originally  on  doc- 
tor's discovery,  now  contains  long-lasting  M-3 
(Hexachlorophene). 

2.  Stops  odor  all  day  long  because  invisible 
M-3  clings  to  your  skin— keeps  on  destroying 
odor  bacteria  a  full  24  hours. 

3.  Non-irritating  to  normal  skin.  Use  it  daily. 
Only  leading  deodorant  containing  no  strong 
chemical  astringents— will  not  block  pores. 

4.  Won't  rot  or  discolor  fabrics— certified  by 
American  Institute  of  Laundering. 

5.  Delicate  new  fragrance.  Creamier  texture- 
new  Mum  won't  dry  out  in  the  jar. 

NEW  MUM 

cream  deodorant 
with  long- 
lasting  M-3 

CHBXACBbOBOFHEtnO 

A  PRODUCT  OF  BRISTOL-MYERS 


® 


FEBRUARY,  1955 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


VOL.  43,  NO.  3 


Regular  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Editorial  Assistant 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


people  on  the  air 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  6 

November  Winners  of  Beat  The  Clock's  Exciting  Big  Contest 18 

My  Daughter,  Betty  White by  Mrs.  Tess  White  29 

The  Host  with  the  Most  (Ed  Sullivan) by  Liz  Nichols  32 

Heaven  in  Her  Hands  (Eve  Arden) by  Jerry  Asher  36 

Rosemary  (Valentine's  Day  greetings  from  the  beloved  daytime 

drama's  heroine  and  her  husband) 38 

Little  Black  Lamb by  Eileen  Parker  40 

Dreams  Are  for  Believing  (Florian  ZaBach) by  Bud  Goode  42 

His  Humor  Just  Happens  (George  Gobel) by  Helen  Bolstad  58 

Time  To  Live by  Pat  Sully  60 

Romantic  Adventure  (Ronald  Long) by  Gladys  Hall  62 

Who's  Who  on  Gunsmoke  (William  Conrad,  Parley  Baer,  Georgia 

Ellis  and  Howard  McNear) 64 

Farewell  to  Bachelorhood  (Wally  Cox) by  Ed  Meyerson  66 

features  in  full  color 

The  Greatest  Question  (The  Van  Deventers) by  Frances  Kish  44 

The  First  Little  Godfrey  (Janette  Davis) by  Martin  Cohen  46 

Fun  To  Be  With  (Bill  Cullen) by  Gregory  Merwin  50 

Love  Of  Life  (picture  story  from  the  popular  daytime  drama) 52 


your  local  station 


Hectic  But  Happy  (WAVE,  WAVE-TV) 4 

Man  of  the  Morning  (WGAR) 8 

Two  in  Love  (WNBQ) 16 

A  Spook  Named  Beckman  (WTVN-TV) 24 


your  special  services 


New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 10 

Steve  Allen's  Turntable 12 

Daytime  Diary 14 

Information  Booth 26 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings) 70 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 97 

Cover  portrait  of  Betty  White  courtesy  of  NBC 


buy   your   March   copy   early    •    on    sale    February    8 


PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  by  Macfaddcn  Publications,  Inc.,  New 
York,    N.    Y. 

EXECUTIVE,  ADVERTISING  AND  EDITORIAL  OFFICES  at 
205  Bast  42nd  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y.  Editorial  Branch 
Offices:  321  South  Beverly  Drive,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.,  and 
22 1  North  La  Salle  Street,  Chicago,  111.  Harold  A.  Wise, 
Chairman  of  the  Board;  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President; 
Lee  Andrews,  Vice  President;  Meyer  Dworkin,  Secretary 
and  Treasurer.  Advertising  offices  also  In  Chicago  and  San 
FranclHco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and  Posses- 
sions and  Canada,  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other  countries. 
CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When  pos- 
sible, please  furnish  stencil-impression  address  from  a  re- 
cent issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only  if  you  send  us 
your  old.  as  well  aa  your  now  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS;    All  manuscripts  will   be  carefully  considered. 

Member   of  The   TRUE 


but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or  damage.  It 
Is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self-addressed 
return  envelopes  or  with  sufficient  return  postage  wllJ  be 
returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17, 
N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Douglas  Lockhart, 
Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954,  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3, 
1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O.  Dept..  Ottawa, 
Ont,,  Canada.  Copyright  1955  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc. 
Ail  rights  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention. 
All  rights  reserved  under  Pan- American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion. Todos  dcrechos  reservados  segun  La  Convencion  Pan- 
Americana  cle  Propledad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  In  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Co. 
STORV    Women's   Group 


When  other  girls  of  her  age  were  out  with  their  boy  friends 
of  a  Saturday  night,  Marilyn  sat  home  with  Rover. 
Good,  old  faithful  Rover  ...  he  didn't  mind  the  trouble* 
that  put  Marilyn  in  wrong  wherever  she  went. 

£-ven  if  out  Ite5t  Attend  won  t  tell  uou 

The  insidious  thing  about  *halitosis  (unpleasant  breath) 
is  that  you,  yourself,  seldom  realize  you're  guilty  of  it 
s  .  .  and  even  your  best  friend  won't  tell  you. 

you  needn't  Ite  a  wall-klowet 

Why  risk  offending  needlessly?  And  why  trust  to 
lesser  precautions  that  deodorize  only 
momentarily?  Why  not  let  Listerine  Antiseptic 
look  after  your  breath  with  that  wonderful 
germ-killing  action?  Listerine  instantly 
stops  bad  breath  and  keeps  it  stopped  usually 
for  hours  on  end  .  .  .  four  times  better 
than  any  tooth  paste. 

A/o  tooth,  paite  kilU  odot  qettni 
like  tlili  .  .  .  initantlu 

Listerine  Antiseptic  does  for  you  what  no 
tooth  paste  does.  Listerine  instantly  kills 
bacteria  ...  by  millions — stops  bad  breath 
instantly,  and  usually  for  hours  on  end. 

You  see,  far  and  away  the  most  common 
cause  of  offensive  breath  is  the  bacterial 
fermentation  of  proteins  which 
are  always  present  in  the  mouth.  And 

research  shows  that  your  breath  stays 
sweeter  longer,  depending  upon  the  degree  to 
which  you  reduce  germs  in  the  mouth. 

Jliitetlne  clinically  ptoired 

^r  timet  Itettet  than  tooth  paite 

Is  it  any  wonder  Listerine  Antiseptic  in  recent 
clinical  tests  averaged  at  least  four  times  more 
effective  in  stopping  bad  breath  odors  than  the 
chlorophyll  products  or  tooth  pastes  it  was  tested 
against?  Make  it  a  habit  to  always  gargle  Listerine, 
the  most  widely  used  antiseptic  in  the  world. 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC 
STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  times  better  than  any  tooth  paste 


BAYER  '■ook  for  L's,erlne  Antiseptic  in  the 

FAMILY  MEDICINE  CHEST  TIME' 


display  at  your  favorite  store. 


Life  for  Ed  Kallay, 

WAVE's  all-around  performer, 

is,  in  a  nutshell  .  .  . 


HECTIC  BUT  HAPPY 


Uncle  Ed  and  Sylvester  Duck  tell  junior  viewers 
to  mind  their  folks.  Below,  versatile  Mr.  Kallay 
covers    an    exciting    sports    event    in    Louisville. 


News,  panel  shows,  play-by-play  sports,  children's  shows, 
music  shows — you  name  'em,  Ed  Kallay  does  'em, 
on  both  WAVE  Radio  and  WAVE-TV,  in  Louisville, 
Kentucky.   As  a  young  boy  growing  up  in  Cleveland,  Ohio, 
Ed  hadn't  the  faintest  notion  that  he'd  someday  be 
one  of  the  busiest  announcers  in  the  business.    After  high 
school,  he  attended  business  school,  did  some  little-theater 
work  and  spent  one  summer  playing  stock.   Then  the  Army 
got  hold  of  him  and  eventually  sent  him  with  the  2nd 
Armored  Division  to  Africa,  England  and  Europe.    After  the 
war,  Ed  decided  to  go  into  radio  because,  as  he  explains 
it,  "My  mother-in-law  said  she  thought  I  had  a  nice 
voice  and  why  didn't  I  try  radio."    Which  is  precisely 
what  Ed  did  at  Station  WINN  in  Louisville  for  two  and  a  half 
years,  before  coming  to  WAVE  in  1948. 

Of  all  the  shows  happy-go-lucky  Ed  does,  he  prefers 
his  play-by-play  broadcasts  and  his  six-days-a-week 
children's  show,  Funny  Flickers,  on  WAVE-TV  at  noon.  The 
highlight  of  Ed's  sportscasting  career  came  last  year  when 
he  announced  the  televising  of  the  Kentucky -Tennessee 
football  game — the  first  televised  from  the  University  of 
Kentucky.  As  for  his  role  as  Uncle  Ed  on  Funny  Flickers, 
genial  Ed  says  the  show  is  "built  around  old-time  slapstick 
comedy  films.    Between  films,  which  I  narrate,  Sylvester 
(the  talking  duck)  flies  around  and  we  shoot  the 
breeze  about  things  in  general."    Ed's  mail  is  very  flattering 
and  he  is  particularly  pleased  when  parents  write  him 
that  their  youngsters  do  what  he  suggests.  Particularly 
surprising  to  Ed  is  that  many  grownups  watch  Funny 
Flickers  .  .  .  "even  the  soldiers  at  Fort  Knox." 

Ed  has  received  his  share  of  awards  for  his  outstanding 
youth  leadership  and  for  helping  to  teach  good  sportsman- 
ship to  young  people.  As  for  spare-time  interests,  Ed 
says,  "My  hobby  is  my  job  .  .  .  trying  new  ways  to  do 
things — and  finding  time  to  prepare  my  shows!"  All  of 
which  is  very  good  reason  why  Ed  and  his  wide  and  varied 
audience  make  such  a  happy,  contented  "couple." 


The  happy,  hearty  Kallay  family:  Ed 
and  his  wife  Jane  with  (left  to  right) 
Paul,  6;  Kaelin,  2;  Mike,  8;  and  Tom,  7. 


A  FABULOUS  PACKAGE  FOR  YOU  FROM  AMERICA'S  BIGGEST  BOOK  CLUB! 


'T  Tow  dare  you  in- 
Xl  trude!"  Amelie 
shouted.    Then    she 


AnyThree 

OF  THESE  BEST-SELLERS 

UP  TO  $14.20  VALUE  IN  PUBLISHERS'  EDITIONS 


LORD  VANITY-Samus!  Shellabarger.  By 
the  author  of  Captain  from  Castile. 
In  gay  18th  century  Venice,  fate  drew 
together  a  young  musician,  a  beautiful 
countess,  an  aspiring  ballerina,  and  a 
dealer  in  black  magic — in  a  fantastic 
web  of  romance  and  adventure!  Pub- 
lisher's edition  $3.95 


DESIREE  —  Annemarie  Selinko.  The 
story  of  lovely  Desiree  Clary,  the 
modest  village  beauty  who  at  19 
became  the  much  admired  wife  of 
Napoleon's  greatest  general — un- 
til her  strange  meetings  with  Na- 
poleon himself  rocked  Paris  with 
scandal!  512  pages.  Pub.  ed.  $4.50 


THE  DEVIL'S  LAUGHTER 
Frank  Yerby.  The  fiery  tale 
of  Jean-Paul  Marin  and 
the  tawny-haired  beauty 
he  adored  in  a  world  mad 
with  the  wanton  excite- 
ment of  the  French  Revo- 
lution. "Flaming  story  of 
action,  passion,  revenge, 
love." — Chicago  Tribune. 
Pub.  ed.  $3.50 


when  you  join 
the  Dollar  Book 
Club  and  agree 
to  take  as  few 
as  6  selections 
out  of  24  to  be 
offered  within 


W«TH  TH* 
WfNP 


AMERICAN  CAPTAIN 
Edison  Marshall.  The 

wind-swept  coast  of 
Malta  in  the  1800's  pro- 
vides the  setting  for  this 
stormy  romance  of  a 
rugged  Yankee  sailor 
and  the  exquisite  daugh- 
ter of  an  English  noble- 
man. New  hit  by  the 
author  of  Yankee  Pasha. 
Pub.  ed.  $3.95 

All  New,  Full-Size, 
Hard-Bound  Books! 


NOT  AS 
A  STRANGER 
Morton  Thompson.  Nation's  top 
hit  for  many,  many  months !  The 
story  of  Lucas  Marsh,  who  gave 
everything  to  become  a  doctor; 
Kristina,  the  girl  he  so  strangely 
married  ;  and  the  beautiful  wom- 
an who  shook  his  innermost  soul. 
Big  700-page  book  !  Pub.  ed.  $4.75 


BLUE  HURRICANE-F.  van  Wyck Mason. 

Why  did  pious  young  Matt  Hovey 
become  a  notorious  blockade  runner 
— the  most  feared  man  on  the  Mis- 
sissippi? Why  were  two  women,  fair 
Phoebe  Whidden  and  dark,  sultry 
Leonie  Dulac  essential  to  his  happi- 
ness? New  best-seller !  Pub.  ed.$3.75 


An  Opportunity  You  Mustn't  Miss  I 


CHOOSE  any  3  books  on  this  page 
for  only  $1.00.  This  big  intro- 
ductory bargain  is  offered  as  a  dem- 
onstration of  the  great  book  values 
which  you  enjoy  as  a  member  of  the 
famous  Dollar  Book  Club. 

Save  up  to  75%  on  New  Best-Sellers 

(compared  with  prices  of  publishers'  editions) 
Imagine— the  same  new  books  costing  up 
to  $3.95  in  publishers'  editions  come  to 
Club  members  for  only  $1  each !  The 
biggest  hits  by  top  authors  like  Daphne 
du  Maurier,  Thomas  B.  Costain,  Frank 
Yerby,  Frances  Parkinson  Keyes,  and 
many  more,  have  come  to  members  at 
this  low  $1  price.  Occasionally,  extra- 
value  selections  at  $1.49  are  offered.  All 
are  full-size,  hard-bound  books. 

In  addition,  the  Club  frequently  offers 
other  desirable  books  .  .  .  useful  home- 
maker  volumes . . .  beautifully  illustrated 


GONE  WITH  THE  WIND 
Margaret  Mitchell.  The 

greatest  best-seller  of  the 
century  in  a  new  edi- 
tion !  The  unforgettable 
love  story  of  beautiful 
Scarlett  O'Hara  and  ad- 
venturous Rhett  Butler 
against  a  spectacular 
historical  background. 
|689  pages.  Pub.ed.  $2.95 


MODERN  FAMILY  C00K  BOOK 
Meta  Given.  New  revised  edi- 
tion of  the  most  useful  cook 
book  ever  published.  1,137 
delicious  recipes !  Plans  your 
meals,  guides  your  shopping, 
makes  meal  preparation  a 
pleasure.  640  brimming  pages, 
16  full  color  plates,  many 
other  pictures.  Pub.  ed.  $4.95 


THE  ROYAL  BOX- Frances  Par- 
kinson Keyes.  The  story  of 
a  fabulous  London  adventure 
that  begins  with  a  brilliant 
theatre  parry,  and  reaches  its 
dramatic  climax  in  a  luxuri- 
ous suite  of  the  Savoy  Hotel. 
Newest  romantic  hit  by  the 
famous  author  of  Dinner  at 
Antoine's.  Pub.  edition  $3-50 


books  .  .  .  valuable 

reference  volumes  . . . 

at  special  Club  prices 

which  save  you  up  to  75%.  But  you  take 

only  the  books  you  want— and  you  do  not 

have  to  take  one  every  month.  You  may 

take  as  jew  as  six  $1   books  a  year.' 

Send  No  Money— Just  Mail  Coupon 

Receive  any  3  books  you  choose  from 
this  page  for  only  $1,  plus  a  small 
shipping  charge.  Two  books  are  your 
gift  for  joining,  and  one  is  your  first 
selecrion.  Thereafter,  you  will  receive 
regularly  the  Club's  Bulletin,  which  de- 
scribes the  forthcoming   selections. 

If  not  delighted  with  your  introduc- 
tory Three-Book  bargain  package  — ■ 
return  all  books  and  your  membership 
will  be  cancelled  without  further  obli- 
gation. Mail  the  coupon  now. 

Doubledoy  Dollar  Book  Club 
Garden  City,   New  York. 


MAIL  THIS   COUPON 

Doubleday  Dollar  Book  Club,  Dept.  2TSG,  Garden  City,  New  York 

Please  enroll  me  as  a  Dollar  Book  Club  member.  Send  me  at  once 
as  my  gift  books  and  first  selection  the  3  books  checked  below— and 
bill  me  only  $1  FOR  ALL  3,  plus  a  small  shipping  charge. 

□  American   Captain      D  The   Devil's  Laughter     Q  Modern  Family  Cook  Book 

□  Blue   Hurricane  D  Gone  With  the  Wind      □  Not  As  a  Stranger 

□  Desiree  Q  Lord  Vanity  G  The  Royal  Box 

Also  send  my  first  issue  of  The  Bulletin,  telling  me  about  the 
new  forthcoming  one-dollar  book  selections  and  other  bargains  for 
members.  I  may  notify  you  in  advance  if  I  do  not  wish  the  following 
month's  selections.  I  do  not  have  to  accept  a  book  every  month- 
only  six  a  year.  I  pay  nothing  except  S  1  for  each  selection  I  accept, 
plus  a  small  shipping  charge  (unless  I  choose  an  extra-value 
selection).  N0-RISK  GUARANTEE:  If  not  delighted  return  all 
books  in   7  days  and  membership  will  be  cancelled. 

Mr.  Please 

Mrs Print 

Miss 

Address    

City 

&.  Zone State 

In    Canada,    selection    price    $1.10    plus    shipping:    address    Doubleday 
Book  Club,  105  Bond  St.,  Toronto  2.  Offer  good  in  U.  S.  &  Canada  only. 


•  By  Jill  Warren 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM 


Go,  go,  go!    That's  been  Jackie  Gleason's  theme  as 
he  stars  on  his  own  TV  show  and  guest-stars  on  others. 


Maggie  Marlowe  TV  Award  winners,  Rita  Bascari  and  John  Har- 
kins,  are  feted   by  Louise  Allbritton   (center),   star  of  the  show. 


David  Wayne's  television  series, 
Norby,  finally  made  its  debut 
January  5  on  NBC-TV.  It's  a  half- 
hour  situation-comedy,  which  has 
been  filmed  in  the  East,  and  the 
advance  reports  on  it  are  excellent. 
Pat  Marshall,  the  new  singing  lass 
on  Steve  Allen's  Tonight  show,  has 
a  featured  acting  role  in  Norby.  As 
soon  as  Wayne  completed  his  TV 
chores,  the  busy  actor  hastened  to 
return  to  Broadway  to  resume  his 
star  status  in  the  hit  show,  "Tea- 
house of  the  August  Moon." 

January  17  is  the  starting  date 
for  another  new  half-hour  show,  TV 
Reader's  Digest,  to  be  seen  Monday 
nights  over  ABC-TV.  The  show  will 
consist  of  dramatizations  and  con- 
densations of  leading  articles  and 
stories  in  "Reader's  Digest." 

If  you've  been  following  CBS- 
TV's  fine  educational  show,  The 
Search,  be  sure  to  see  the  January 
16  program,  which  will  be  presented 
by  the  English  Language  Institute 
of  the  University  of  Michigan.  On 
January  30,  The  Search  will  tell  the 
camera  story  of  a  paraplegic  Korean 
War  veteran.  This  show  will  origi- 
nate from  the  Institute  for  Physical 


Medicine  and  Rehabilitation  at  New 
York   University. 

For  the  first  time,  NBC-TV  has 
opened  up  its  network  early  Satur- 
day mornings  with  a  full  two-hour 
entertainment  schedule  for  chil- 
dren. The  program  will  be  broken 
up  into  half-hour  segments.  One 
feature  will  be  Happy  Felton's  Spot- 
light Gang,  with  a  variety  format 
including  contests  for  youngsters  in 
the  studio  as  well  as  for  those  at 
home.  Comedy  and  songs  with  Paul 
Winchell  and  his  wooden  sidekick, 
Jerry  Mahoney,  will  follow.  Milton 
De  Lugg  will  handle  the  music  on 
this  portion,  along  with  fourteen- 
year-old  Beverly  Wright  as  the 
songstress.  Also  to  be  seen  are  the 
Funny  Boners,  with  Jimmy  Weldon, 
the  young  ventriloquist,  assisted  by 
his  "dummy,"  Webster  Webfoot. 
NBC -TV  plans  to  add  other  features 
to  this  Saturday  morning  small-fry 
session  from  time  to  time. 

The  Best  Of  Broadway  show,  on 
CBS-TV,  has  arranged  for  Jackie 
Gleason  to  star  in  the  February  2 
production.  The  play  they've  picked 
should  be  right  up  Gleason's  alley. 
It's    "The    Show-Off"    and    will    be 


done  live,  and  in  color,  as  well  as 
black  and  white. 

Oops!  There's  another  panel  show 
in  our  midst,  and  ABC -TV  has  it. 
It's  called  What's  Going  On?  and 
it  was  thought  up  by  those  clever 
panel-quiz  boys,  Mark  Goodson  and 
Bill  Todman.  Lee  Bowman  emcees 
the  Sunday-night  half-hour  pro- 
ceedings, and  the  six  panelist-play- 
ers are  Kitty  Carlisle,  Hy  Gardner, 
Gene  Raymond,  Audrey  Meadows, 
Cliff  Norton  and  Susan  Oakland. 
During  the  show,  the  panel  is 
separated  into  two  groups,  the  "ins" 
and  the  "outs."  The  "ins,"  in  the 
studio,  will  try  to  guess  what  the 
"outs,"  outside  the  studio,  are  doing. 
The  program  involves  two  remote 
camera  pickups  and  a  filmed  episode. 

Horace  Heidt  is  back  on  television 
and  NBC  has  him  every  Saturday 
night,  with  a  brand-new  half-hour 
show.  In  addition  to  the  Heidt  musi- 
cal aggregation,  Horace  will  present 
current  entertainment  headliners 
and  hopeful  stars  of  the  future.  The 
Heidt  show  takes  over  the  time 
formerly  occupied  by  Ethel  And 
Albert,  who  were  cancelled,  unfor- 
tunately, because  of  a  sponsor  bow- 


Robin  Morgan  lends  a  hand  to  the  School  Savings  Program — and  pins 
a  Savings  Stamp  corsage  on  Treasury  Secretary  George  Humphrey. 


Jack  Webb  steps  out  of  his  Sgt.   Friday   role  to 
take   romantic   interest   in    lovely   Dorothy  Towne. 


out.  However,  NBC-TV  is  trying  to 
find  a  new  time  for  this  popular 
program. 

It's  anniversary  time  for  Martin 
Block — his  twentieth  year  as  "Dean 
of  Disc  Jockeys"  and  his  first  year 
with  ABC  Radio.  In  celebration  of 
the  event,  the  network  is  planning 
a  big  four-and-a-half -hour  show  on 
February  3  with  many  of  the  big- 
gest recording  and  musical  stars  on 
hand  to  fete  Martin.  Congratulations 
from  us,  too,  Mr.  B. 

NBC-TV  has  lined  up  a  solid 
two  hours  of  dramatized  serials 
which  they  have  titled  Daydrama, 
and  which  will  be  seen  throughout 
the  country,  Monday  through  Friday 
afternoons.  Greatest  Gift  leads  off, 
then  Golden  Windows,  One  Man's 
Family,  Concerning  Miss  Marlowe, 
Hawkins  Falls,  First  Love,  The 
World  Of  Mr.  Sweeney,  and  ending 
with  Modern  Romances. 

Lots  of  to-do  over  Ruthie  "Max" 
Gilbert  leaving  her  role  as  Milton 
Berle's  devoted,  love-sick  secretary. 
Ruthie  claims  the  Berle  people  knew 
she  was  expecting  a  baby  when  the 
show  started  this  past  season,  and  if 
they  didn't  want  to   give  her  time 


off  to  welcome  the  stork  they  should 
have  told  her  so  many  weeks  ago. 
The  Berle  faction  says  they  simply 
couldn't  use  her  in  "her  condition," 
and  even  though  her  contract  with 
the  program  runs  till  June  of  this 
year,  they  have  given  her  no  as- 
surance that  she  can  come  back  to 
"Miltie"  after  the  birth  of  her  baby. 
On  a  happier  note,  Marion  Lome, 
who  plays  Mrs.  Gurney  on  the  popu- 
lar Mr.  Peepers  show,  will  be  absent 
for  another  month  or  so,  but  with 
the  blessings  of  the  producers. 
Marion  is  in  Hollywood  playing  a 
part  in  Rosalind  Russell's  new 
movie,  "The  Girl  Rush."  Mrs.  Gur- 
ney has  simply  been  "written  out" 
of  the  weekly  proceedings  until  her 
picture  chores  are  finished,  at  which 
time  she  will  be  back  with  Peepers 
and  Company. 

This  V  That: 

Petite  songstress  Teresa  Brewer 
and  her  husband,  Bill  Monahan,  wel- 
comed a  new  baby  to  their  family — 
a  third  daughter.  They  named  her 
Megan  Colleen,  and  she  weighed  in 
at  seven  pounds,  five  ounces. 

Actress  Joan  Alexander  will  take 


time  off  from  The  Name's  The  Same 
some  time  in  February,  when  her 
baby  is  due.  Joan  and  her  spouse, 
Arthur  Stanton,  are  hoping  for  a 
boy. 

And  Peter  Lawford  and  his  recent 
bride,  Pat  Kennedy,  are  rumored  to 
be  expecting  their  first  visit  from 
Sir  Stork. 

A  few  months  ago  Tennessee 
Ernie  decided  to  use  his  last  name — 
Ford — in  all  his  professional  billings. 
Everyone  thought  it  was  a  good  idea, 
but  now  Ernie  is  not  so  sure.  He 
almost  landed  a  sponsor  for  his  radio 
show,  but  he  didn't  get  it  because  of 
the  Ford  name.  The  sponsor?  Chev- 
rolet. 

Sad  about  the  passing  of  radio 
and  television  actress  Joy  Hatha- 
way, who  died  suddenly  from  pneu- 
monia a  few  hours  after  her 
three-week-old  daughter  died  of  the 
same  illness.  At  one  time,  Joy 
played  the  lead  in  the  popular  radio 
serial,  Amanda  Of  Honeymoon  Hill. 
and  was  often  heard  on  such  shows 
as  Young  Widder  Brown,  Man  Be- 
hind The  Badge  and  Stella  Dallas. 
She  is  survived  by  her  husband, 
Charles     (Continued    on    page    20) 


WGAR's  audiences  at  home  and 

on  the  road  hail  genial 
Tom  Armstrong  as  their  favorite 

Man  of  the 
Morning 


Morning    trio:    Al    Keiselbach,    Tom,    and    Jim    Martin. 


Early  morning  radio  listeners  are  kept  well-informed 
on  the  Armstrong  family.  Billy's  goal  is  football;  that's 
Debbie   on   Tom's   lap;    little   Tommy   with    wife    Katie. 


Tom  Armstrong  speaks  softly,,  carries  a  big  smile, 
and  does  things  by  threes.  He's  been  named  the 
Number    One    studio    announcer    in    three    Cleveland 
Pre%s  polls,  and  the  very  good  reasons  for  this 
popularity  are  made  out  in  triplicate.    A  ten-year 
veteran  at  Station  WGAR,  Tom  is  northern  Ohio's 
favorite  all-morning  man.   For  the  audience-in-motion 
or  at-home,  Tom  is  mike-side  from  6  to  9:30  A.M. 
with  a  listener-service  program  of  popular 
music,  time  signals,  weather  reports  and  road-condition 
information,  with  assists  from  the  other  members  of 
the  show's  trio — news  by  Jim  Martin  and  comments 
by  engineer  Al  Keiselbach.  ...  At  9:30,  Tom  airs 
his  second  program,  teaming  up  with  Women's 
Director  Ruth  Allen  for  Ladies'  Day.  Then,  as  WGAR's 
automotive  authority,  he  presents  Calling  All  Cars, 
heard  Tuesday  and  Thursday  at  5:40  P.M.  and 
Saturday  at  5:10  P.M.    The  Cleveland  Automobile 
Dealers  Association  has  cited  Tom  for  his  contributions 
to  highway  safety.  .  .  .  But  Tom's  favorite  threesome 
are  his  lively  offspring:  Bill,  14  and  a  candidate  for 
the  Shaker  Heights  Junior  High  football  team; 
Debbie,  6;  and  three-year-old  Tom  III.    Completing 
the  Armstrong  household  is  Tom's  lovely  wife  Katie. 
An  avid  sports  enthusiast,  Tom  shoots  his  way 
around  the  fairways  in  the   70's,   maintains   a   185 
average  on  the  bowling  alleys,  is  a  good  swimmer  and 
was  Michigan  University  billiards  champion.  .  .  . 
While  still  at  school,  Tom  worked  as  chief  announcer 
at  Michigan  University  of  the  Air  and  on  Station 
WJR's  Hermit's  Cave.  He  followed  this  up  with  a  mike 
stint  in  Hollywood,  a  tour  of  duty  with  the  U.  S. 
Army,  and  more  radio  work  in  Youngstown.    His 
enthusiastic  following  in  Cleveland  has,  in  the  past, 
been  won  when  he  appeared  on  such  WGAR  programs 
as  Norm  Knuth  And  His  Starliters  and  The  Range 
Rider.   While  conducting  Polka  Party,  Tom  collected 
13  tons  of  Christmas  cards  for  cerebral  palsy 
victims  during  a  five-day  campaign.    The  response 
was  overwhelming— as   well   as   the   only   one 
possible — to  the  easygoing,  warm-hearted  personality 
of  Tom  Armstrong,  Cleveland's  man  of  the  morning. 


*¥\  Miracle  latex  slims  and 
trims— from  waist  to 
thigh— without  a  seam, 
stitch  or  bone/  Hidden 
"finger"  panels  firm  and 
support  like  magic ' 


>V  Kitten-soft  fabric  inside— 
and  a  wonderful  new 
non-roll  top— for  extra 
comfort.'  Playtex  Magic- 
Controller  washes,  dries 
in  a  hurry,  too. 


/^ 


New  PLAYTEXf  Living* 
"custom-contoured"  of  elastic 
and  nylon  to  flatter,  feel  and  fit 
as  if  fashioned  for  you  alone! 
In  heavenly  blue  package. 
Only  $3.95 


10 


ASK  YOUR 

DOCTOR  or  DRUGGIST 


-  ■  ^aafcftfr- ' 


END  THAT 

"Certain  Time" 
Odor  Problem 


with 


^.containing 

since  pre-histor,V  «  S  been  so 
deodorants  an/'  V"eS ~and  th« 
"zation  have soS'T*  °f  ^ivi" 

Now,  however 2ft  C°Ver  **' 
turies  - aTub»r» «  "  !"any  cen" 
found  that  afc<T  v.a,?,ce  has  been 
odo«d3&?£erbb-  £*£ ?«»»" 
stance -Daroto?  <  yi  hls  sub" 
»n  "Ennds^S^"  f°Und  only 

ftft  »*«£  carr£ftSo- 

removes  the  ^L^f*'  where  it 
o^anic  compSsfrb°e?  '«*«« 
are   excretes)   +u  oeiore    they 

-Perspiraetionhorr0afotnhe  P°TeS 
material.  b  other  waste 

not^n^^s  "til  °f  "E™>S"> 
"certain   timf"      ,  Worry  over 

Purifies  and™wee?edn0srthb^  a,S° 
dafnre^e^^-^Pe-ona3!- 

drug  counters  evervwhNNDS;'  at 
size  only  49   cent,    t         e"  Tria] 

even.moreeconorncater  S,'Z-1S 
able  in  Canada  S0  avai]- 

ShSfd^no^Ah6';  "What  Y°u 
Problem  of  OdofoZnt  ^°man's 

Hiil  Stal^PN°ewB^Jfi6MurW 


•Oi 


New  Patterns  for  You 


4735 — Daughter  will  look  like  a  prin- 
cess in  this  sew-easy  dress  and  capelet.  Girls' 
Sizes  6,  8,  10,  12,  14.  Size  10  dress  takes 
2l/2  yards  of  35-inch  fabric,  %  yard  contrast. 
Cape,  2  yards  of  54-inch  fabric.  35$ 

4759 — So  smart,  so  comfortable.  Note  the 
dashing  cut  of  the  collar,  bloused  back, 
front-pleat  skirt.  Misses*  Sizes  12-20; 
30-42.  Size  16  takes  4%  yards  of  39-inch 
fabric.  35$ 

4894 — Designed  to  fit  and  flatter  shorter, 
fuller  figures.  Slimming  paneled  hipline, 
novel  neckline,  soft  bodice,  graceful  skirt. 
Half-Sizes  14i/2-24y2.   Size  16% 
takes  4%  yards  of  39-inch  fabric.  35$ 


•14 


4894 

SIZES 
14J4-24J6 


"^ 


Send  35c  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to: 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  Pattern  Department, 
P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York. 


NAME ' 

I; 
ADDRESS I 

CITY 

STATE 

Add  5c  for  each  pattern  for  Ist-claBs  mailing. 


Which  is  your  hair  problem  ? 


Hair  too  dry? 


Oh,  lady,  you  need  SUAVE!  No  other 
hairdressing  turns  dry  hair  shimmery- 
soft  so  quickly  ...  or  gives  it  such 
healthy-looking  glow  —  thanks  to 
SUAVE's  amazing  new  greaseless  lanolin. 


Hard  to  manage? 

SUAVE  hairdressing  makes  hair  comb 
instantly  into  just  the  arrangement  you 
want.  Leaves  hair  so  silky,  so  free  of  oily 
film — for  SUAVE  is  truly  greaseless. 
Nothing  works  like  Helene  Curtis  SUAVE ! 


%c 


Dull,  no  shine? 

A  kiss  of  SUAVE,  and  right  away  you 
have  glowing,  lovely  hair.  It's  sparkly  as 
it  ought  to  be — and  all  without  oily  look 
or  feel.  Your  hair  has  highlights  to  be 
proud  of! 


Brittle,  abused? 

SUAVE  conditions  sorry-looking  hair  new 
non-greasy  way,  protects  against  hair 
woes.  Gives  hair  satin  softness  . . .  helps 
hair  take  a  better  wave. 


s 


HELENE  CURTIS 

uave 

HAIRDRESSING  &  CONDITIONER 

NEW-WITH  AMAZING  GREASELESS  LANOLIN 

Solves  hair  problems  instantly! 


Won't  stay  in  place? 

No  other  hairdressing  keeps  hair  in  place 
so  softly  and  naturally.  No  stickiness,  no 
oiliness  ...  no  "hard"  look.  No  wispy 
ends,  floppy  curls.  With  Helene  Curtis 
SUAVE,  hair  obeys  new  soft  way. 


New  Improved  SUAVE 

is  created  by  Helene  Curtis, 

foremost  name  in  hair  beauty. 


""*«■ 


New,  Improved  SUAVE  brings  you  a  revolutionary 

Helene  Curtis  discovery — greaseless  lanolin!  Now — in  SUAVE— 

get  the  famous  benefits  of  lanolin  without  oily  look  and  feel ! 

Let  New,  Improved  SUAVE 

solve  your  hair 


iproved  SUAVE  J"Q,J  and  M  , 

lir  problem . . .  today!    \J  >J  S. ... 


(plus  taxi 


11 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


Hello,  once  more.  If  you're  all  settled 
down  after  the  holidays,  we  can  get 
on  with  the  first  calendar  business  of 
1955 — record  business,  I  mean.  There  are 
some  good  single  releases  and  many  new 
albums  this  month,  so  let's  be  off. 

I'll  start  with  Bing  Crosby,  always  a 
good  man  to  head  any  platter  list.  Bing  has 
recorded  two  pretty  ballads  with  the  Al- 
fred Newman  orchestra  and  the  Judd 
Conlon  Choir — "The  Song  from  Desiree," 
from  the  Marlon  Brando  movie,  "Desiree," 
and  "Who  Gave  You  Roses?"  This  is  one 
of  the  Groaner's  best  in  a  long  time. 
(Decca) 

Ella  Mae  Morse,  who  has  a  way  with 
a  beat  tune,  does  a  bouncy  vocal  duo, 
"Bring  Back  My  Baby  to  Me"  and  "Lovey, 
Dovey,"  with  solid  backing  by  "Big  Dave" 
and  his  orchestra.  Missy  Morse  has  been 
hankering  for  a  hit,  and  this  could  be  the 
one.  (Capitol) 

RCA  Victor  is  honoring  Eddy  Arnold 
this  month  with  a  big  celebration  of  his 
ten  years  with  the  label.  They've  done  up 
a  fine  album  called  "An  American  Institu- 
tion," highlighting  the  top  hillbilly  tunes  of 
the  last  decade.  Eddy,  with  his  own  guitar 
accompaniment,  does  them  all,  of  course, 
including  such  well-remembered  hits  as 
"You  Can't  Be  True,  Dear,"  "Tennessee 
Waltz,"  "I  Don't  Hurt  Any  More,"  and 
"Cold,  Cold  Heart." 

Eddy  has  also  done  a  kiddie  thing  called 
"The  Horse  with  the  Striped  Pajamas," 
sharing  the  lyrics  with  his  eight-year-old 
daughter,  Jo  Ann.  This  is  Jo  Ann's  first 
professional  effort,  but  it  shouldn't  be  her 
last — she  shows  real  vocal  promise. 
(Victor) 

And,  while  we're  on  the  subject,  Colum- 
bia is  releasing  an  album  for  children, 
sung  by  Mary  Stuart,  who  stars  as  Joanne 
Barron  in  the  daytime  TV  drama,  Search 
For  Tomorrow.  It's  called  "Joanne  Sings 
to  Patti"  (Mary's  daughter  in  the  show), 
and  features  eight  new  songs  adapted  from 


12 


Steve   Lawrence   and   Eydie  Gorme   cut 
their    first    record    together    for    Coral. 


old  folk  songs.  It's  a  sure  bet  grownups 
will  enjoy  the  album  just  as  much  as  the 
youngsters. 

Every  time  Cole  Porter  writes  a  new 
musical  comedy,  all  the  singers  and 
musical  artists  knock  each  other  down  to 
be  the  first  to  record  the  tunes  from  the 
score.  Porter's  Broadway  show,  "Silk 
Stockings,"  has  some  wonderful  songs,  and 
you  can  just  about  have  your  pick  of 
vocalists.  On  the  Coral  label  there's  Eileen 
Barton  doing  "Without  Love,"  Buddy 
Greco  crooning  "Paris  Loves  Lovers,"  and 
"All  of  You"  with  a  Mel  Torme  rendition. 
.  .  .  Decca  assigned  four  numbers  from 
the  Porter  score  to  Fred  Waring's  Penn- 
sylvanians,  Dolores  Gray  recorded  "With- 
out Love,"  and  Jack  Pleis'  orchestra,  with 
a  mixed  vocal  chorus,  did  a  lush  treatment 
of  "Paris  Loves  Lovers."  .  .  .  Over  at 
Victor,  Tony  Martin  waxed  an  enticing 
version  of  "All  of  You,"  with  Hugo  Win- 
terhalter's  orchestra,  and  Victor's  Number 
One  Boy,  Perry  Como,  does  the  title  song 
of  the  show,  a  ballad,  "Silk  Stockings," 
with  Mitchell  Ayres'  orchestra  and  the 
Ray  Charles  Singers.  On  the  backing  Ol' 
Per  sings  a  rhythm  tune,  "Home  for  the 
Holidays."  Yes,  I  know  Christmas  is  over, 
but  this  one  is  good  for  all  year   'round. 

Fred  Norman  and  his  orchestra  have 
recorded  a  couple  of  pretty  sides  for 
M-G-M.  The  first  is  "Monday-Tuesday- 
Wednesday-Thursday-Friday,"  a  cute  love 
song  vocalized  by  The  Normanaires.  The 
second,  a  ballad,  has  Malcolm  Williams  on 
the  lyrics  to  "My  Love  for  Dorothy."  In- 
cidentally, the  latter  tune  was  written  by 
Larry  Douglas,  as  a  musical  fan  letter  to 
Dorothy  Dandridge. 

Also  on  the  M-G-M  label  we  find  two 
excellent  instrumentals  by  Tony  Mottola 
and  his  orchestra,  both  sparked  by  Tony's 
good  guitar  work.  "The  Eleventh  Hour"  is 
a  moody,  romantic  theme  you'll  recognize, 
possibly,  from  hearing  it  just  before  the 
late  movie  on  many  TV  stations.  The  cou- 
pling is  a  novelty,  written  by  Tony,  called 
"Toy  Guitar." 

Truman  Capote,  the  literary  fellow,  has 
come  up  with  a  Broadway  musical  show 
called  "The  House  of  Flowers,"  and  Co- 
lumbia has  recorded  the  whole  score  as 
done  by  the  original  cast,  headed  by  Pearl 
Bailey,  Juanita  Hall  and  Diahann  Carroll. 
Harold  Arlen  wrote  the  music,  lyrics  are 
by  Capote  and  the  orchestra  is  conducted 
by  Jerry  Arlen. 

Don  Cornell  should  have  been  able  to 
buy  his  wife  a  mighty  nice  Christmas 
present  with  his  royalties  from  his  1954 
smash,  "Hold  My  Hand."  He's  starting 
1955  with  a  new  release  that  could  very 
well  top  it:  "No  Man  Is  an  Island,"  a 
ballad  with  a  terrific  lyric,  and  Don  really 
sings  it  out.  On  the  reverse  he  does  an- 
other ballad,  "All  at  Once."    (Coral) 

Also  in  the  crooner  department  we  find 
Frank  Sinatra,  front  and  center  with  "You, 
My  Love,"  and  a  new  treatment  of  the  old 


Gershwin  lovely,  "Someone  to  Watch  over 
Me,"  with  Nelson  Riddle's  orchestra.  The 
Sinatra  baritone  sounds  great.  (Capitol) 

M-G-M  is  all  excited  about  their  big 
special  album,  "Deep  in  My  Heart,"  which 
is  taken  right  from  the  soundtrack  of  the 
Metro  musical  movie  of  the  same  name  and 
is  the  screen  biography  of  one  of  Amer- 
ica's greatest  composers,  the  late  Sigmund 
Romberg.  There  are  fifteen  selections  in 
all,  including  such  classics  as  "Lover,  Come 
Back  to  Me,"  "Deep  in  My  Heart,"  "When 
I  Grow  Too  Old  to  Dream."  And  what  a 
vocal  cast:  Helen  Traubel,  Gene  Kelly, 
Tony  Martin,  Howard  Keel,  Jane  Powell, 
Vic  Damone,  Rosemary  Clooney,  Jose  Fer- 
rer and  William  Olvis.  Adolph  Deutsch 
conducts  the  M-G-M  Studio  orchestra  and 
chorus. 

Capitol  Records  is  trying  a  new  gim- 
mick in  the  album  department,  having 
their  people  record  tunes  which  have 
recently  been  hits  for  other  artists  on  other 
labels.  They're  starting  with  two,  the  first 
being  Nat  "King"  Cole  singing  in  his  style 
"If  I  Give  My  Heart  to  You,"  "Hold  My 
Hand,"  "Papa  Loves  Mambo,"  and  "Teach 
Me  Tonight."  The  second  set  has  Les  Paul 
and  Mary  Ford  giving  their  interpretation 
to  "Mr.  Sandman,"  "That's  What  I  Like," 
"I  Need  You  Now,"  and  "The  Things  I 
Didn't   Do." 

Eydie  Gorme  and  Steve  Lawrence,  two 
of  the  talented  youngsters  from  my 
Tonight  television  show,  have  made  their 
first  record  together,  a  duet  called  "Make 
Yourself  Comfortable,"  which  the  kids 
do  up  in  dreamy  style.  On  the  backing 
Eydie  solos  on  "I've  Gotta  Crow,"  one  of 
the  tunes  from  the  new  musical  version 
of  "Peter  Pan."  Dick  Jacobs'  orchestra  and 
chorus  provide  good  backing.    (Coral) 

Decca  must  be  out  to  sign  up  all  the 
big  he-men  movie  stars  to  record  contracts. 
First  they  nabbed  Jeff  Chandler  and  Tony 
Curtis,  now  they've  got  Kirk  Douglas — 
who,  by  the  way,  makes  a  good  impres- 
sion on  his  first  wax  effort.  Kirk  comes 
through  with  "A  Whale  of  a  Tale,"  the 
tune  he  sings  in  his  movie,  "20,000  Leagues 
Under  the  Sea,"  and  "The  Moon  Grew 
Brighter  and  Brighter,"  from  the  picture, 
"Man  Without  a  Star."  Kirk  is  helped  out 
by  The  Mellow  Men  vocal  group. 

And,  for  a  final  note,  RCA  Victor  is 
bringing  out  a  brand-new  Henri  Rene 
album,  "Passion  in  Paints,"  and  a  most 
unusual  one  it  is.  Maestro  Rene  has  taken 
twelve  famous  paintings  as  his  inspiration 
and  written  original  mood  music  to  fit 
each  one.  The  recordings  are  all  instru- 
mentals, and  are  given  the  lush  treatment 
by  Henri  and  his  orchestra.  Included  are 
such  famous  works  of  art  as  Leonardo  da 
Vinci's  "The  Mona  Lisa,"  and  Toulouse 
Lautrec's   "At  the  Moulin  Rouge." 

Well,  art  lovers — I  mean  music  lovers, 
or  both,  if  you  will — I  must  be  going. 
Happy  record-listening,  and  I'll  meet  you 
back  here  next  month. 


FANS!  CROSSWORD  PUZZLERS! 
are  400  chances  to  win 


A  FORTUNE  FOR  SOMEONE! 


ENTER  WITH  CONFIDENCE 

G.  F.  Gemeroy,  supervisor  of  this  contest,  was  named 
"AMERICA'S  FAVORITE  CONTEST  SPONSOR"  for 
1953-1954  by  the  National  Contesters  Association. 

Gemeroy  contests  have  been  declared  legal  and  lawful. 
Judge  Felix  Medina,  presiding  over  the  Federal  Court, 
Southern  District  of  New  York,  declared  :,"G.  F.  Gemeroy' s 
business  of  conducting,  managing  and  supervising  fund 
raising  campaigns,  through  the  medium  of  puzzle  contests, 
is  a  lawful  business  entitled  to  protection  in  equity." 

ALL  Gemeroy  contest  awards  are  paid  promptly  and 
in  full!  At  the  close  of  the  contest,  every  entrant  will  receive 
a  complete  list  of  prize  winners,  plus  a  reproduction  of  the 
actual  prize-winning  puzzle  solution. 

PRIZE  MONEY  NOW  ON  DEPOSIT!  The  magni- 
ficent sum  of  $40,000  is  now  on  deposit  at  the  Seattle  1st 
National  Bank,  ready  to  be  paid  to  winners  of  this  puzzle 


MASTER   WORD    LIST 


We're  going  to  give  away  $40,000.00,  and  soon!  Besides  the  GRAND 
AWARD  of  $10,000.00,  there  will  be  399  other  cash  awards.  2nd 
Prize  is  $6,000.00,  3rd  Prize  is  $3,000.00,  4th  Prize  is  $2,500.00, 
and  5th  Prize  is  $2,000.00.  If  you  have  never  "hit  the  jackpot,"  here 
is  a  puzzle  made  to  order  for  you.  It's  exciting;  it's  thrilling;  and  the 
rules  are  crystal-clear.  ACT  NOW,  for  here's  an  opportunity  you 
may  never  have  again! 

Help  Build  this  Urgently  Needed  Hospital  in  Seattle 

In  our  previous  Hospital  contests,  thousands  of  generous  persons  contributed  over 

$350,000.00;    and    S50.000.00    IN    CASH    AWARDS    WAS    PAID    BACK    TO    400    LUCKY 

WINNERS.  The  Hospital  now  owns  a  35-acre  sire,  and  has  ac  presenr  in  the  bank 
sufficient  cash  to  justify  immediate  plans  for  the  building  of  the  first  200-bed  unit 
of  the  Hospital.  Our  Ttustees  are  now  faced  with  the  gigantic  task  of  raising  an  I 
additional  2  million  dollars  in  the  next  few  month's. 

The  Northwest  Memorial  Hospital  invites  the  support  of  our  friends  and  well- 
wishers  everywhere.  Your  donation  will  provide  you  with  the  satisfaction  of  having 
supported  this  Hospital  which  is  so  urgently  needed  by  the  people  of  Seattle,  with 
rhe  added  opporruniry  to  win  a  SMALL  FORTUNE  WHICH  CAN  BE  AS  much  as  S10.000. 


AKRON 
ALBANY 
AMAZON 
APACHE 

BEAVER 
BETHEL 
BOZEMAN 

CANTON 
CHICAGO 
CHOATE 

DENVER 
DESOTA 
DETROIT 


ELMA 

EMME 

ENZELI 

ERIE 

EUREKA 

FAIRFAX 
FELLIN 

GHENT 
GIZEH 

HELENA 

HIERA 

HODGE 

JESSUP 


KENT 
KIROV 

LHASA 

LOGAN 

LOWELL 

MIAMI 

NOHANT 

OAKLAND 

OGDEN 

OLNEY 

OMAHA 

ORION 


QUAY 

RACINE 

ROHATYN 

RUMMEL 

SALEM 

SEATTLE 

STALIN 

TACOMA 

TAFT 

THUR 

XANTHUS 

YORK 


mm— urn***— ******* 

A  BRAND-NEW  FUN-PUZZLE 


!■■»■  iU 
CONTEST ' 


No  dictionaries  or  reference  books  needed.  Every- 
thing is  right  here.  You  know  exactly  what  words  to 
use  and  how  to  spell  them.  There  is  no  worry  or 
uncertainty  about  it.  match  your  skill  in  this 

THRILLING     "BATTLE     OF     WITS"     WITH     PUZZLERsJ 
EVERYWHERE.      _  - 


NOW- 
HOW! 


SAMPLE    SOLUTION 


wn 


This  example  solution  illustrates  how  the  words 
interlock  and  shows  the  manner  in  which  the 
subtotals  are  obtained.  The  words  used 
are  all  different  from  the  Master  List  and  of 
course  cannot  be  used  in  your  puzzle  solution. 


LETTER 
■VALUES 


To  solve  this  easy  puzzle,  fill  in  all  the  blank  white  squares  on  the  puzzle  chart  with  individual  letters 
to  spell  30  different  interlocking  words.  Use  only  words  selected  from  the  50-word  Master  List.  Spell 
from  top  to  bottom  for  vertical  words,  and  from  left  to  right  for  horizontal  words.  The  18  Key 
Letters  spotted  on  the  chart  must  remain  in  the  positions  shown.  No  word  to  be  used  more  than  once. 

Starting  with  the  6-letter  horizontal  word  section  at  the  top  left  corner,  select  a  6-Ietter  word 
with  "A"  as  fourth  letter.  Next,  choose  a  4-letter  vertical  word  that  begins  with  the  lasc  letter  of  your 
top-left  word.  To  help  you  get  a  good  start,  it's  easy  to  see  that  "ALBANY"  is  the  6-letter  word 
to  use  in  this  position.  Proceed  in  the  same  manner  until  all  the  blank  letter  squares  are  filled. 

Each  letter  used  is  given  a  definite  point  value  (see  letter  chart),  and  all  inter- 
locking letters  are  allowed  triple  (3  times)  value.  It  is  not  necessary  to  show  sep- 
arate values  in  each  letter  square.  Note — Triple-value  letter  spaces  have  all  been 
circled.  To  compute  each  of  the  subtotals  in  the  long-ladder-like  column  at  the 
right,  add  together  the  letter  values  in  each  horizontal  path  or  row.  (Study  example 
chart  to  see  how  these  totals  are  obtained.)  The  GRAND  TOTAL,  being  the 
total  of  the  horizontalline  totals,  MUST  be  added  together  and  shown  at  the  bottom 
in  the  space  marked  "GRAND  TOTAL".  In  other  words,  the  GRAND  TOTAL 
is  simply  the  total  value,  added  together,  of  all  the  letters  used  in  all  the  letter 
squares  in  the  entire  puzzle,  nor  forgetting  the  triple  values  where  such  occur. 
The  object  of  the  puzzle,  when  ALL  the  blanks  have  been  filled,  is  simply  to  obtain 
the  highest  possible  Grand  Total  when  these  horizontal  sub-totals  have  been  added 
together.  Pen,  pencil  or  typewriter  may  be  used.  Residents  of  the  United  States, 
Canada,  Alaska,  Hawaii,  and  Puerto  Rico  are  eligible  to  enter  this  contest. 

TIEBREAKER  MAILED  IMMEDIATELY 

Each  and  every  person  who  submits  a  solution  with  a  scote  within  25  points  of  the 
Correcr  High  Grand  Total,  accompanied  by  a  donation  of  $2  fot  the  Hospital 
Fund,  will  be  eligible  to  proceed  at  once  to  the  Main  Event  Tiebreaket  without  a 
further  donation.  The  Tiebreaker  will  be  the  same  style  as  this  Initial  Puzzle,  but 
will  be  larger  and  will  require  more  words.  To  break  the  ties,  consecutive  puzzles — 
not  to  exceed  two  mote — will  be  employed. 

The  same  day  your  puzzle  solution  is  received,  we  will  send  back  by  Fitst 
Class  Mail  your  Main  Event  Tiebreaker,  accompanied  by  com- 
plete rules  and  instructions. 

In  this  same  letter,  you  will  also  receive  a  full  explanation  as  to 
the  Special  Options  available  whereby  you  have  the  opportunity 
to   increase  your   Prize   up    to  the  maximum   Grand  Award   of 

1  $10,000.00.  REMBMBER  NO  ADDITIONAL  DONATION  BEYOND  YOUR 
INITIAL  $2  WILL  BB  NECESSARY  AT  ANY  TIME  TO  PARTICIPATE  RIGHT 
TO  THE  END  OF  THB  CONTEST. 

Start  working  the  Puzzle  now.  When  completed  send  your  solu- 
tion with  $2   donation  to  the  NORTHWEST  MEMORIAL  HOSPITAL 

ASSOCIATION,  MUTUAL  LIFE  BLDG.,  SBATTLE,  WASHINGTON.  In  a  few 

weeks  you  may  have  the  thrill  of  winning  a  big  CASH  AWARD 
up  to  $10,000.00. 


G.  F.  GEMEROY   HAS   GIVEN   $276,000  TO 
PUZZLE  HOBBYISTS   IN   PAST  8  YEARS! 


A— 5 
B  —  8 
C  — 6 
0  —  7 
E— 5 
F— 8 
G  — 5 
H  — 9 
1  —  5 
J  — 8 
K  — 6 
L  — 9 
M  — 6 
N  — 6 
O  — 6 
P  —  7 
Q  — 8 
R  — 4 
S  — 6 
T  — 8 
U  — 4 

V  — 9 
W  — 4 

X  — 9 

Y  — 9 
Z  — 9 


HURRY!  CONTEST  CLOSING  SOON! 


Mail  Your  Entry  Today— $1500  Bonus  for  Pn 
Your    last    opportunity    to    qualify    to    wi 


npt  Action — 
a    fortune! 


GRAND 
TOTAL 


id  addressed  stamped  en 
ope  for  large  siie  extn 
tzle  charts  if  you  need  Hierr 


I  have  shown  above  my  Grand  Total  for  this  Crossword  Puzzle  and  also  enclose  my 
$2  donation  for  the  Northwest  Memorial  Hospital.  It  is  understood  the  Main  Event 
Tiebreaker  will  be  forwarded  by  return  mail  provided  my  answer  is  within  ,25  points 
of  the  Correct  Total.  DEADLINE  FOR  ENTRIES:  March  25,  1  955. 


Nome. 


Address . 


City  or  P.  O Sfafe  or  Prov. 


*ytf~   »/    y  _   ,  Northwest  Memorial  Hospital,  209  Mutual  Life  Bldg.,  Seattle, 
ISffl&tC    Cw-/Wash.  Remit  in  Cash,  Money  Order  or  by  Personal  Check. 


eggs-tra 

good  for 
your  hair/ 


HffPWfifWiir^H 


Row 


Iw     V 


shampoo 

plus  egg 


CONCENTRATE 


•W  HAIR.CONDITIONIN6  AClWf 


14 


See  how  exciting  this  new  luxury 
lather  makes  your  hair!  Glowing 
clean,  silky ...  so  manageable! 
That's  the  magic  touch  of  Fresh 
Whole  Egg!  Conditions  any  hair. 
Try  it!  29c,  59<t,  *1. 


Daytime 
Diary 


All  programs  are  heard  Monday  through  Friday;   consult  local 
papers  for  time  and  station 


AUNT  JENNY  On  the  surface  Littleton 
is  a  small,  quiet  town,  where  very  little 
happens.  But  for  Aunt  Jenny  the  town  is 
seething  with  human  activities,  problems, 
and  emotions,  and  it  is  on  this  knowledge 
that  she  draws  for  her  stories  about  the 
lives  of  her  neighbors  .  .  .  stories  that 
happen  to  have  taken  place  in  Littleton,  but 
might  be  just  as  true  to  life  in  any  part 
of  the  world  where  people  try  to  live  in 
happiness.    CBS  Radio. 

BACKSTAGE  WIFE  The  wife  of  a  suc- 
cessful Broadway  actor  learns  not  to  take 
her  happiness  for  granted,  and  Mary  Noble 
was  not  unused  to  the  lengths  to  which 
predatory  women  would  go  to  win  the 
attention  of  her  handsome  husband,  Larry. 
But  never  before  has  she  encountered  a 
plot  as  relentless  as  that  organized  by 
Elise  Shephard.  Driven  for  help  to  an 
unexpected  source.  Mary  finds  herself  in- 
volved in  a  strange  dilemma.    NBC  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  BAY  Bert  Ralston 
believes  his  smooth  exterior  and  open- 
handedness  in  good  causes  are  making  real 
headway  for  him  into  New  Hope's  inner 
councils,  and  in  some  circles  he  has  been 
received  with  open  arms.  But  Reverend 
Dennis,  using  both  his  instincts  and  his 
sharp  eyes  and  ears,  has  quietly  built  up 
another  picture  of  Bert  Ralston — a  picture 
so  grim  that  he  cannot  act  upon  it  with- 
out absolute  proof.  Can  he  get  it?  CBS- 
TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

CONCERNING      MISS      MARLOWE 

Actress  Maggie  Marlowe  thought  the  hap- 
piest day  of  her  life  had  come  when  she 
was  reunited  with  the  daughter  she  lost 
fourteen  years  ago.  But  Kit  isn't  the 
daughter  Maggie  hoped  for — at  least  not 
on  the  surface.  Defiant,  vindictive,  strange- 
ly whimsical  .  .  .  will  Kit  respond  to 
Maggie's  devotion?  Or  will  the  day  come 
when  Maggie  bitterly  regrets  that  her  long 
search  was  successful?    NBC-TV. 

FIRST  LOVE  Laurie  married  Zach  with 
her  eyes  open  to  the  fact  that  it  wouldn't 
be  easy.  His  hard  independence,  formed 
during  years  of  lonely  childhood,  freezes 
overtures  from  those  who  have  no  way  of 
knowing  how  good  a  friend  he  can  be. 
Laurie's  love  and  loyalty  have  guided  her 
so  far,  but  what  will  happen  if  Zach,  hurt 


by  misunderstanding,  turns  from  her  to 
someone  else  who  is  receptive?    NBC-TV. 

GOLBEN  WIN  BOWS  New  York  is  un- 
settling enough  for  a  girl  like  Julie,  who 
has  known  only  a  small  lonely  island  off 
the  coast  of  Maine.  But  to  be  told  that  she 
has  come  there  on  a  wild  goose  chase 
might  be  enough  to  send  her  back  home 
in  a  hurry — if  she  were  any  girl  but  Julie. 
Trusting  her  own  instinct,  she  will  not  be- 
lieve Tom  Anderson  is  less  in  love  with 
her  than  she  is  with  him.  Would  she  be 
wiser  to  go  home  again?    NBC-TV. 

THE  GREATEST  GIFT  No  stranger  to 
small  town  gossip,  Dr.  Eve  Allen  knows 
what  she  faces  in  defying  one  of  the  most 
powerful  men  in  town.  But  it  is  more  im- 
portant to  her  not  to  be  frightened  or  co- 
erced into  a  lie.  Power  is  important  to  a 
lot  of  people  around  Eve,  but  she  learns 
as  she  continues  to  defy  it  that  there  are 
many  others  who,  like  herself,  refuse  to  be 
cowed  by  it.  Will  they  be  the  ones  who 
win?    NBC-TV. 

THE  GUIBING  EIGHT  Dr.  Jim  Kelly 
and  Kathy  Grant  started  dating  each  other 
on  a  "just-friends"  basis,  and  Kathy  finds 
she  cannot  go  along  when  Jim  wants  to 
change  the  relationship.  Her  ex-husband, 
Dr.  Dick  Grant,  is  also  disturbed  about  his 
future,  for  Dr.  Thompson's  systematic  cam- 
paign to  demoralize  him  is  so  effective  that 
Dick  really  begins  to  doubt  himself.  By  the 
time  he  realizes  that  he  must  fight  back, 
Thompson  has  done  his  work.  CBS-TV 
and  CBS  Radio. 

HAWKINS  FALLS  In  Hawkins  Falls, 
people  live  so  close  together  that  even  if 
they  want  to  they  cannot  avoid  knowing  a 
lot  about  one  another's  affairs.  Knowing, 
however,  isn't  necessarily  the  same  as  in- 
terfering, and  Lona  and  Floyd  Corey  have 
occasion  to  wonder  just  when  it's  wise  to 
step  over  the  line.  Are  there  times  when 
even  the  most  helpful  of  neighbors  is 
wrong  to  stretch  out  a  managing  hand? 
NBC-TV. 

HILLTOP  HOUSE  In  trying  to  help  the 
young  child  of  Carl  Burnett's  broken  mar- 
riage, Julie  knows  she  cannot  avoid  an- 
tagonizing one  or  both  of  his  parents.  But 
(Continued  on  page  22) 


9500  Skin  Tests  Prove 


Palmolive  Soap  Is  Mildest! 
Better  for  Complexion  Care ! 

BETTER  THAN  ANY  LEADING  TOILET  SOAP... 
FLOATING  SOAP...  EVEN  COLD  CREAM 


Palmolive's  gentle  complexion  care 
cleans  thoroughly  without  irritation ! 


There's  nothing  women  envy  more  ...  or  men  admire  so  much 
...  as  that  lovely  "schoolgirl  complexion  look."  And  you  too*  can 
have  a  younger  looking,  far  lovelier  complexion  just  by  changing  to 
proper  care  with  gentle  Palmolive.  It  does  so  much  to  help  you 
have  a  cleaner,  fresher  skin  —  leaves  it  so  wonderfully  soft! 


Skin  specialists  agree  that  a  really  mild  soap  means  less  irrita- 
tion, more  gentle  cleansing.  Milder  Palmolive  brings  you  these 
benefits — so  important  for  a  softer,  smoother,  brighter  skin.  You'll 
find  no  other  leading  soap  gets  skin  thoroughly  clean  as  gently  as 
Palmolive  Soap.  Yes,  Palmolive  is  mildest  of  them  all! 


Skin  Specialists  Say:  "MILDER  CLEANSING  IS  BETTER  FOR  YOUR  COMPLEXION!" 


P, 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 
Milder  than  Any  Other  Leading 
Beauty  Soap  or  Castile  Soap! 


Jw 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 

Milder  than  Leading  White 

Floating  Soaps  or  Deodorant  Soaps ! 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 

Even  Milder  than  America's  leading 

Cold  Creams! 


PALMOLIVE  SOAP  HELPS  YOU  GUARD  THAT  SCHOOLGIRL  COMPLEXION  LOOK! 


15 


June,  a  star  herself  now,  started  the  first  Como  fan  club. 


Howard's  fans  wanted  to  run  him  for  Congress. 


16 


June  Valli  and  Howard  Miller 
are  having  the  time  of  their  lives 
as  partners  in  love  and  work 


Howard  is  proud  of  the  show's  two  orchestras — one  strings, 
the  other  rhythm — both  conducted  by  Joseph  Gallicchio. 


Preparing  a  new  TV  show  is  a  frenzied  business.  But 
back  in  December,  1953,  when  Close  Up  was  prepar- 
ing to  make  its  debut  as  Station  WNBQ's  daily  5:30 
offering,  the  ordinary  chaos  was  compounded.  The 
show's  hazel-eyed,  five-foot  singing  star  was  distracted. 
Instead  of  singing  to  the  cameras,  June  Valli  directed 
her  love  songs  to  wherever  emcee  Howard  Miller  hap- 
pened to  be  standing.  June  and  Howard — Chicago's 
acknowledged  number  one  disc  jockey — had  been 
secretly  engaged  for  a  year,  and  now  June  had  left 
family,  friends  and  a  radio-TV-recording  career  in  New 
York  to  come  to  Chicago  and  co-star  with  Howard  in 
career  and  in  private  life.  Everything  went  off  as  elec- 
tronically scheduled,  including  the  Christmas  Eve  wed- 
ding in  the  candle-lit  chapel  at  the  Little  Country 
Church.  Windy  City  fans  warmly  welcomed  the  new 
TV  twosome  and  the  show's  format:  Songs  by  June  and 
a  guest  male  singer,  words  and  hosting  by  Howard.  Six 
weeks  after  its  debut,  Close  Up  won  an  award  as  the 
best  local  variety  show,  Howard  was  named  Chicago's 
favorite  emcee  and,  to  balance  the  mantel  in  their  eight- 


TWO   IN    LOVE 


June  and  Howard  first  met  at  a  New  York  luncheon.   Howard  presented  orchids  and  marriage-talk  at  dinner  that  same    night. 


room  apartment,  June  was  presented  with  a  trophy  as 
the  best  girl  vocalist  on  Chicago  TV. 

Bronx-born  June  not  only  was  engaged  and  wed  on 
Christmas,  she  started  her  career  on  December  25  as 
well.  This  was  in  1950  and  June,  whose  father  had  been 
a  street  singer  in  his  native  Italy,  was  persuaded  by 
the  other  guests  to  sing  at  a  wedding.  Among  those  in 
attendance  was  Abe  Burrows'  uncle,  who  was  so  im- 
pressed he  arranged  a  TV  talent-show  audition.  June 
gulped  down  her  stagefright,  sang  "Stormy  Weather," 
and  won  the  contest.  Musical  Director  Harry  Salter 
heard  June's  radio  debut,  hired  her  for  his  show  and 
took  her  under  his  professional  wing.  Next  came  night 
clubs,  recording  (her  best  seller  so  far  is  "Crying  in  the 
Chapel"),  and  such  TV  programs  as  Cavalcade  Of  Stars, 
Cavalcade  Of  Bands,  Ezio  Pinza  Show,  Songs  For  Sale, 
and,  finally,  a  year's  star  billing  on  Your  Hit  Parade. 

Howard  was  the  youngest  man  on  record  to  apply, 
but  the  F.C.C.  granted  him  a  license  to  build  and  operate 
his  own  station  in  Galesburg,  Illinois.  He  discovered  he 
preferred  mike-side  to   executive-side   of   radio   when 


he  pinch-hit  at  a  basketball  game.  Listeners  demanded 
"more  Miller"  and  were  trying  to  persuade  Howard  to 
run  for  Congress  when  war  broke  out  and  he  enlisted 
in  the  Navy.  In  1945,  he  was  again  wearing  well-tailored 
civvies  in  his  home  town  of  Chicago  and  again  working 
behind-the-radio-scenes.  But  mike-fever  plagued  him 
and  he  soon  quit  to  free-lance  around  the  studios.  His 
knack  for  knowing  what  type  of  music  the  people  want, 
for  spotting  the  gold  among  the  gilt,  for  putting  guests 
at  their  ease  and  making  interviews  sparkle — plus  the 
basic  Miller  charm — soon  made  him  a  favorite  and  his 
schedule  now  averages  60  radio  and  TV  shows  weekly! 
Today  Howard,  a  graduate  of  Knox  College  and  Kent 
Law  School,  joins  June  in  relaxing  among  the  modern 
decor  of  their  Lake  Shore  Drive  apartment  or  aboard 
their  cabin  cruiser,  "Disc  Jockey."  Both  share  an  avid 
interest  in  music  and  the  theater,  and  June  adds  such 
hobbies  as  sewing  and  cooking  Italian  dishes.  On  or  off 
camera,  June  Valli  and  Howard  Miller  are  two  in  love, 
and  Chicagoans  continue  to  delight  in  the  wonderful 
fare  the  happy-in-work-and-love  Millers  provide. 


17 


It's  Elastic 

and  Nylon! 


dtdUHArt 


Cn.tii-cnMi  {fouAtib 


"Custom N  |  contoured"  to  flatter,  feel  and 

fit  as  if  fashioned  for  you  alone/ 

See  it— you'll  want  it/  Wear  it— you'll  love  it/  The  Playtex  Living  Bra 
uses  elastic  and  nylon  in  a  new  way,  to  g-i-v-e  with  your  every  motion  .  .  . 
to  1-i-v-e  as  you  live.  Exclusive  criss-cross  design  lifts  your  loveliness, 
contours  your  curves,  rounds  and  raises  as  no  bra  ever  before.  For  the 
first  time  in  bra  history,  you  can  enjoy  upmost  uplift  in  utmost  comfort. 
You'll  see  the  beautiful  difference  .  .  .  feel  the  comfortable  difference/ 


*°V»!1» 


"*>•«», 


g> 


19 


J^f 


Bra* 


18 


Look  for  Playtex 

in  the  heavenly  blue  package  at  department 
stores  and  specialty  shops  everywhere. 
In  gleaming  WHITE,  wonderfully  washable— 
without  ironing/  Sizes  32 A— 40C— $3.95 

•  U.S.A.  and  Foreign  Patents  Pending 


01004  International  Latex  Corporation  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Dover  Del 
In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont. 


New 

BEAT  THE  CLOCK 

Contest  Winners 


Announcing  the  lucky  winners  of 
Beat  The  Clock's  exciting  big  contest 
for  November  .  .  . 


1st  Prize, 

Sylvania  Chairside 

Theater: 


Mrs.  Rosanne  Ferrante 
28  Lookover  Lane 
Yard  ley,  Pennsylvania 


Four  runners-up,  Sylvania  radio  clock: 

Mrs.  Duard  Duncan 
506  South  Pearl  Street 
Salem,  Illinois 

Gerold  E.  Kooley 
1401   East  54th  Street 
Tacoma  4,  Washington 

Mrs.  Eva  Henry 
129  Outer  Drive 
Oak  Ridge,  Tennessee 

Robert  N.  Brengle 
2041/2  West  Elm  Street 
Urbana,  Illinois 


Next  month:  Another  five  winners  will 
be  announced  from  Beat  The  Clock's 
December  contest.  Keep  an  eye  on 
these  pages — you  may  find  your  name 
printed  here  as  a  winner! 


Beat  The  Clock,  emceed  by  Bud  Collyer,  is 
seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  7:30  P.M.  EST,  as 
sponsored  by  Sylvania  Electric  Products  Inc. 


Winners  were  chosen  on  the  basis  of 
accuracy  in  rearranging  the  pictures  of 
three  radio  and  TV  stars,  and  originality 
of  last  line  for  a  limerick.  Stars  in 
November's  picture  puzzle  were:  Gale 
Storm,  Lucille  Ball,  and  Eve  Arden. 


LUCILLE 
BALL 


EVE 
ARDEN 


1 


Puts  Dancing  Highlights  In  Your  Hair! 


NEW  FORMULA  OUT-LATHERS, 
OUT-SHINES  OTHER  SHAMPOOS 


MAKES  YOUR  HAIR  EXCITING  TO  TOUCH! 


Hair's  so  satiny  after  a  Helene  Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion  Sham- 
poo it  irresistibly  calls  for  a  love-pat!  You  can't  always  wear 
a  satin  dancing  dress  for  the  man  in  your  life— but  now,  with 
Helene  Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo  he'll  see  the  satiny 
beauty  of  your  hair  every  day!  You'll  find  that  never  before 
in  your  shampoo  experience  has  your  hair  had  so  much  shim- 
mer, so  much  softness. 


Double  Lanolin  Is  The  Reason 

Enriches  Your  Hair  With  Beauty 
Instead  of  Drying  It! 


Lanolin  Lotion  was  pur- 
posely formulated  with 
twice  as  much  lanolin  as 
ordinary  shampoos.  That 
means  double  the  lanolin 
protection  against  dryness 
...double  the  lanolin  polish 
and  beauty  for  your  hair. 
For  even  problem  hair  — 
hair  that's  had  its  beauty 
oils  dried  away... washed 
away... bleached  away... 
benefits  astonishingly  from 
this  double-lanolin  lather. 
It  not  only  feels  twice  as 
rich— it  actually  is  twice  as 
rich.  Don't  confuse  this 
utterly  new  Helene  Curtis 
Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo 
with  any  so-called  "lotion" 
or  "lanolin"  shampoo  you've 
ever  tried  before. 


PROOF  THAT  NEW  SHAMPOO 
OUT-LATHERS  OTHER  BRANDS 


Lanolin  Lotion 


Helene  Curtis  Lanolin 
Lotion  Shampoo  out-lathers 
four  other  brands  given  the 
Cylinder-Foam  Test. 


Billows  of  Fleecy  Foam 
Leave  Hair  Shimmering, 
Obedient,  "Lanolin-Lovely' 


You'll  discover  an  amazing  difference  the  moment  this 
revolutionary  shampoo  touches  your  hair.  For  never 
before  has  any  shampoo  burst  into  such  mountains  of 
snowy  lanolin  lather— lather  that  actually  POLISHES 
hair    clean.    Because    only 


Helene  Curtis  Lanolin 
Lotion  Shampoo  brings  you 
this  foaming  magic.  No 
old-fashioned  "lazy-lather" 
shampoo  can  shine  your 
hair  like  this— 'til  it  shim- 
mers like  satin  in  the  moon- 
light! 

The  radiance  of  your  hair 
shampooed  this  new  way 
will  be  instantly  visible  to 
everyone  —  but  you,  your- 
self, are  the  best  judge  of 
results.  So  after  you've 
brushed  your  Lanolin  Lo- 
tion shampooed  hair,  take 
your  hand  mirror  and  stand 
in  a  strong  light.  You'll  see 
how  much  more  brilliance 
dances  in  your  hair! 

And  this  shampoo  is  so 
good  for  hair... for  there's 
twice  the  lanolin  in  it!  It 
can't  dry  your  hair  or  leave 
it  harsh,  brittle  and  hard  to 
handle.  Instead,  it  leaves 
your  hair  in  superb  condi- 
tion—supple, temptingly 
soft,  far  easier  to  manage. 
Tangles  slip  away  at  the 
touch  of  your  comb!  Your 
waves  come  rippling  back 


deeper,  firmer,  and  more 
pliantly  lovely  than  ever 
before. 

So  let  this  sensational 
shampoo  discovery  bring 
out  the  thrilling  beauty  hid- 
den in  your  hair!  All  the 
vibrant,  glowing  tone... 
the  natural  softness.  Treat 
your  hair  to  Helene  Curtis 
Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo— 
290,  590  or  $1.  On  sale 
everywhere! 


OCEANS  OF  LATHER 

EVEN  IN 

HARD  WATER! 

An  amazing  built-in 
water  softener  in  this 
Lanolin  Lotion  Sham- 
poo gives  you  piles  of 
lather  that  rinses  quick, 
leaves  hair  bright— even 
in  the  hardest  water! 


19 


20 


1 1  Who'd believe  pimples 
zilmosf' tciihed  tny  czteet' 


says  BARBARA  BRESLIN, 

successful  New  York  model 


"When  I  found  out  most  of  my  friends  were  using  Clearasil  to  solve  their 
pimple  problems,  I  decided  to  try  it.  Clearasil  really  saved  the  day  for  me! " 

New  Scientific  Medication  . . .  OlGBXciSll 

STARVES  PIMPLES 

1  SKIN-COLORED  . . .  hides  pimples  while  if  works 

6 


Proved  effective 

by  doctors . . . 

endorsed  by  nurses 

in  nationwide  tests 


Doctors  prove  this  new-type  medica- 
tion especially  for  pimples  really  works! 

In  skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  pa- 
tients, 9  out  of  every  10  cases  were 
cleared  up  or  definitely  improved  while 
using  clearasil.  And  when  3002 
nurses  tested  clearasil,  9 1  out  of  every 
100  nurses  reporting  said  they  preferred 
it  to  any  other  pimple  medication. 

Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil 
actually  starves  pimples  because  it  helps 

Clearasil 

The  specific  medication  tor  pimples 


remove  the  oils  that  pimples  "feed"  on. 
And  clearasil's  antiseptic  action  stops 
the  growth  of  bacteria  that  can  cause 
and  spread  pimples. 

Instant  relief  from  embarrassment  be- 
cause clearasil  is  skin-colored  to  hide 
pimples  while  it  helps  dry  them  up. 
Greaseless,  stainless.  Pleasant  to  leave 
on  day  and  night  for  uninterrupted 
medication. 

America's  largest-selling  specific 
pimple  medication. .  .because  clearasil 
has  helped  so  many  young  people  and 
adults,  clearasil  is  GUARANTEED 
to  work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  and 
nurses'  tests  or  money  back.  Only  59^. 
Economy  size  98^.  At  all  druggists. 
Get  clearasil  today. 


WHAT'S   NEW   FROM 

(Continued  from  page  7) 


Jerry    Mahoney    and    Paul    Winchell 
adding  gaiety  to  Saturday-morn  TV. 


Kenny,  assistant  radio  and  TV  editor 
of  the  N.  Y.  Daily  Mirror,  and  three 
sons. 

Elena  Meet  Millie  Verdugo  and 
her  writer  husband,  Charles  Marion, 
have  separated  and  are  planning  to 
divorce.  However,  close  friends  of 
the  couple,  unhappy  about  the 
breakup,  are  urging  them  to  have  a 
try  at  a  reconciliation. 

Conductor  Archie  Bleyer  and 
"Chordette"  Janet  Ertel  tied  the 
knot  a  few  weeks  ago  in  Weehawken, 
New  Jersey.  It  was  a  second  mar- 
riage for  both.  Janet  and  Archie 
originally  met  on  the  Arthur  God- 
frey shows. 

Mulling   The    Mail: 

Mrs.  L.  S.,  Jacksonville,  Fla.,  and 
many  others  who  wrote  about  Carl 
Swenson:  Yes,  Carl  did  leave  the 
cast  of  Our  Gal  Sunday,  in  order  to 
take  over  the  male  lead  on  the  tele- 
version  of  Portia  Faces  Life.  Ala- 
stair  Duncan  is  the  new  Lord  Henry. 
.  .  .  Miss  L.  C.,  Squantum,  Mass.: 
I  don't  know  of  any  definite  future 
television  plans  right  now  for  Ted 
Mack  and  Fred  Waring.  .  .  .  Mr.  D. 
P.,  Peoria,  111.:  The  Fontane  Sisters 
went  off  the  Perry  Como  show 
simply  because  the  producers  de- 
cided to  make  a  change  and  use  the 
mixed  voices  of  the  Ray  Charles 
Singers.  The  girls  are  doing  fine, 
however,  on  personal  appearances 
and  recordings.  .  .  .  H.  W.  E.,  Louis- 
ville, Ky.:  Marion  Marlowe  and 
Frank  Parker  are  not  married,  not 
even  secretly,  to  the  best  of  any- 
one's knowledge,  so  I  can't  give  you 
a  time,  place  or  a  date.  .  .  .  Mrs. 
C.  J.  H.,  Freeville,  N.  Y.  and  all  who 
wrote  about  Kate  Smith:  Kate  has 
been  off  both  radio  and  television 
for  several  months  now,  and  at  the 
moment  is  not  scheduled  to  return. 
Whenever  she  does  go  back  to  work, 
we'll  have  news  of  it,  you  may  be 


COAST  TO  COAST 


sure.  .  .  .  Mr.  K.  Y.,  Kansas  City, 
Mo.:  There  was  a  big  rumor  in  the 
radio  world  that  Ed  Murrow  was 
going  to  leave  CBS  and  move  to 
NBC.  But  Ed  himself  has  said  he 
has  no  intention  of  leaving  his  net- 
work "unless  the  Air  Force  develops 
their  rocket  to  the  moon."  .  .  .  Mrs. 
F.  S.,  Baltimore,  Md.:  Laraine  Day 
was  formerly  married  to  singer  Ray 
Hendricks,  and  they  had  two  adopted 
children.  ...  To  all  the  ladies  who 
have  written  asking  about  Arlene 
Francis'  diamond  heart  which  she 
always  wears  on  her  TV  shows:  It 
was  given  to  her  by  her  husband, 
actor  Martin  Gabel,  on  their  first 
wedding  anniversary,  and  she  never 
takes  it  off.  The  tiny  heart  inside  is 
a  recent  addition,  also  a  gift  from 
Gabel.  Hearts  are  Arlene's  lucky 
symbol,  and  she  uses  them  for  deco- 
rations whenever  she  can. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  ...  ? 

Jimmy  Carroll,  the  Irish  tenor 
who  used  to  sing  on  various  radio 
shows,  and  often  subbed  for  Morton 
Downey  and  James  Melton  a  few 
seasons  back?  Outside  of  a  few  TV 
guest  shots  now  and  then,  Jimmy 
hasn't  done  much  radio  work  of 
late,  preferring  to  perform  in  night 
clubs  instead. 

Dan  Seymour,  who  was  the  an- 
nouncer for  so  many  years  on  the 
Aunt  Jenny  daytime  radio  show  on 
CBS?  Dan  has  retired  from  active 
broadcasting  because  his  duties  as 
vice-president  of  the  Young  and 
Rubicam  advertising  agency  have 
kept  him  too  busy.  He  previously 
gave  up  all  his  microphone  jobs 
except  Aunt  Jenny — which  show  he 
had  done  since  its  start  back  in  1937. 

Bill  Hayes,  who  was  a  familiar 
face  and  voice  on  Your  Show  Of 
Shows  for  several  seasons?  Since 
leaving  his  regular  berth  on  the 
show  a  year  or  so  ago,  Bill  did  a  few 
things  in  TV,  played  a  few  clubs 
and  starred  in  "Me  and  Juliet"  on 
Broadway.  About  a  month  back,  he 
started  a  new  radio  program  on' 
ABC,  called  Take  Thirty,  which 
originates  in  New  York.  On  it  Bill 
sings,  has  interviews,  and  does  a 
bit  of  platter-spinning. 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one 
of  your  favorite  people  or  programs, 
or  wonder  what  has  happened  to 
someone  on  radio  or  television,  drop 
me  a  line — Miss  Jill  Warren,  TV 
Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St., 
New  York  17,  N.  Y.,  and  I'll  try  my 
best  to  find  out  for  you  and  put  the 
information  in  the  column.  Unfortu- 
nately, we  don't  have  space  to  an- 
swer all  questions,  so  I  try  to  cover 
those  personalities  and  shows  about 
whom  we  receive  the  most  inquiries. 
Sorry,  no  personal   answers. 


Made  of 

CREAMY   LATEX. 

Non-Allergenic 


SOFTER,  SMOOTHER, 
LONGER   LASTING 


COOL-VENTED 
for  comfort 


"FRIENDLY"  EDGES. 
No  seams  or  stitches. 
Won't  bind  or  chafe. 


PERFECT  PROTECTION- 

without  cutting 

circulation 


KEEP    YOUR    BABY 


oca 


IN     PLAYTEX®    BABY  PANTS 


Made  of 

non-allergenic  latex 

.  .  .   the  coolest, 

completely  stretchable, 

waterproof  material 

known/ 


Will   not  bind 

or  mark.  Prove 

it  with  your 

own  hands/ 


No  wonder  MORE    MOTHERS    BUY    PLAYTEX    THAN    ANY    OTHER    MAKE/ 


In  U.S.A.   ...from  79<  wherever  baby  needs  are  sold. 


*T.  M.  ©1954   International  Latex  Corp'n.  PLAYTEX    PARK,  Dover  Del. 


In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd.,  Arnprior,   Ontario 


21 


Daytime  Diary 


as  the  supervisor  of  an  orphanage,  a  woman 
dedicated  to  helping  children,  Julie  would 
have  taken  that  risk  even  if  she  had  known 
how  far-reaching  its  results  would  be.  Will 
her  own  marriage  suffer  through  Mildred 
Burnett's  desire  for  revenge?    CBS  Radio. 

JUST  PLAIN  BILL  Bill  Davidson  is  un- 
certain about  the  growing  friendship  be- 
tween his  daughter  Nancy  and  the  young 
lawyer,  Peter  Dyke  Hampton.  The  grounds 
for  gratitude  are  deep,  since  Hampton 
saved  Nancy  from  suffering  for  the  murder 
of  Thelma  Nelson.  But  Nancy  is  beautiful 
and  Peter  is  lonely — and  Nancy's  husband 
Kerry  is  becoming  very  jealous.  Can  Bill 
honestly  persuade  him  he  has  no  cause  for 
jealousy?  Are  Kerry's  instincts  sound? 
NBC  Radio. 

LORENZO  JONES  Belle's  long  struggle 
to  reestablish  her  marriage  to  Lorenzo  faces 
new  problems  as  the  visitors  to  the  Queen 
Charlotte  Mines  seem  determined  to  sep- 
arate them  once  and  for  all.  What  can  Gail 
Maddox  do  to  forward  her  own  plan  to 
marry  Lorenzo — the  plan  that  was  on  the 
point  of  success  when  Belle  appeared? 
Will  Belle  be  able  to  counter  Gail's  scheme 
as  quickly  and  determinedly  as  may  be 
necessary?    NBC  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  It  is  no  secret  to  Va- 
nessa Raven  that  her  new  husband's  past 
holds  a  tragedy  of  some  kind,  but  she 
refuses  to  see  it  as  a  threat  until  her  sister 
Meg  makes  Paul's  mysterious  reticence 
impossible  to  ignore.  Can  Paul's  former 
wife  really  interfere  in  the  present,  as  she 
is  so  clearly  determined  to  do?  Will  she 
find  that  Vanessa  has  too  much  spirit  and 
resourcefulness  to  allow  herself  to  be  made 
a  helpless  victim?    CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  None  of  the  younger 
folks  trusted  Billy  Pierce's  wife  Laura,  even 
back  when  Shuffle  and  Ma  believed  she 
was  the  sweet,  helpless  young  thing  she 
appeared  to  be.  And  even  when  Ma  is 
forced  to  face  the  sordid  facts  about  just 
why  Laura  really  married  Billy  she  cannot 
imagine  the  sinister  alliance  through  which 
Laura  hopes  to  achieve  her  aim.  The 
death  of  her  own  brother  doesn't  stop 
Laura.    What  will  it  take?    CBS  Radio. 

ONE  MAN'S  FAMILY  Claudia  Barbour 
feels  she  is  entitled  to  some  happiness  after 
the  fiasco  of  her  marriage  to  Johnny  Roberts. 
Happiness  is  the  one  thing  Father  Barbour 
wants  for  his  children,  but  he  has  his  own 
ideas  about  how  they  may  achieve  it.  Fight- 
ing for  independence,  both  Hazel  and  Clau- 
dia stop  to  wonder  if  they  might  not  be 
better  off  without  it.  Would  it  be  wiser 
to  follow  their  father's  dictates?    NBC-TV. 

Or  It  UAL  SUNDAY  The  new  threat  to 

the  marriage  of  Sunday  and  Lord  Henry 

Brinthrope    is    the    most    frightening    one 

Sunday  has  ever  faced,  because  she  feels 

herself  unable   to  defeat   it   without  help. 

Not   knowing   how   cleverly    she   is    being 

maneuvered,  she  turns  for  this  help  to  the 

one  person  she  should  have  shunned,  and 

T     plunges    into    a    situation    that   grows   in- 

V    creasingly  difficult  to  explain.    Will  Lord 

R     Henry  ever  believe  the  truth?    CBS  Radio. 


22 


PEPPER   YOUNGS  FAMILY    Slowly 
and  carefully,  Pepper  pieces  together  the 


(Continued  from  page  14) 

events  that  led  up  to  the  death  of  Curt 
Bradley.  But  will  he  learn  about  Grant 
Wilson's  lie  in  time  to  save  Carter  from 
the  terrible  reaction  to  what  he  believes 
to  be  his  own  guilt?  Can  he  find  proof  that 
Bradley's  death  was  the  result  not  of  Car- 
ter's carelessness  but  of  somebody  else's 
very  careful  planning — planning  that  all 
along  has  guided  events?    NBC  Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  To  the  layman,  one  of 
the  most  frustrating  legal  tie-ups  is  the  one 
Perry  Mason  faces  as  he  must  carefully 
collect  legal  proof  before  action  can  be 
taken  against  the  man  he  knows  perfectly 
well  to  be  a  multi-murderer.  But  Perry, 
as  an  experienced  lawyer,  knows  that  even 
the  desperate  criminal  he  is  after  must  be 
caught  with  a  completely  legal  trap.  His 
only  concern  is  time — will  there  be  enough 
to  save  Kate  Beekman?    CBS  Radio. 

PORTIA  FACES  LIFE  Walter  Man- 
ning's ego  suffers  when  his  paper  nears 
bankruptcy  and  he  is  in  no  shape  to  stand 
up  under  the  possibility  of  Portia's  resum- 
ing her  legal  career.  Portia,  intent  on  re- 
gaining her  happiness,  quickly  gives  up 
her  friend's  case,  but  Walter's  bitterness 
seems  to  be  growing  nevertheless.  Can 
quick-witted  Dorrie  Blake  take  advantage 
of  his  mood?  How  far  will  Portia  have  to 
go  to  save  her  home?    CBS-TV. 

THE  RIGHT  TO  HAPPINESS  In  an 

effort  to  help  a  friend,  Carolyn  becomes  in- 
volved in  a  situation  that  at  first  she  can- 
not quite  handle.  Wealthy  Sherry  Wayne 
has  all  kinds  of  plans  for  herself  and  Caro- 
lyn, and  although  Carolyn  assures  her 
they  are  impractical  Sherry  is  determined 
to  make  some  repayment  for  Carolyn's 
kindness.  Will  her  impulse  of  gratitude  do 
something  she  never  expected  or  intended 
— place  Carolyn  in  NBC  Radio. 

THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  If  Sybil  Overton 
had  never  met  Dr.  Jim  Brent,  so  long  ago, 
many  lives  might  have  been  different.  But 
they  did  meet,  and  Sybil  is  still  seeking 
full  revenge  for  Jim's  rejection  of  her 
romantic  overtures.  Jim's  wife  Jocelyn, 
Sybil's  own  baby,  and  the  marriage  of  Jim's 
foster-son  Dr.  John  Brent  have  already 
suffered  bitterly  through  Sybil's  campaign. 
How  much  tragedy  will  result  before  it 
reaches  an  end?  CBS  Radio  and  CBS-TV. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

Faced  with  the  necessity  of  forgetting  the 
man  she  really  loves,  Helen  Trent  was 
very  close  to  finding  consolation  with 
wealthy  Brett  Chapman.  But  the  machi- 
nations of  her  clever  young  assistant  put 
an  end  to  that  hope,  and  now  Helen  once 
again  faces  unhappiness  as  her  love  for 
Gil  Whitney  revives.  Can  Gil  ever  free 
himself  from  his  unhappy  marriage?  What 
of  Brett's  son  Richie,  who  has  turned  to 
Helen  for  comfort?    CBS  Radio. 

ROSEM ARY  Monica  has  convinced  Lon- 
nie  that  he  has  a  right  to  live  his  own  life, 
but  the  knowledge  that  he  is  betraying  his 
best  friends  accompanies  the  confused  boy 
as  he  and  Monica  abscond  with  the  Boys 
Club  money.  Rosemary  and  Bill  Roberts, 
stunned  by  the  tragedy  that  follows  Lon- 
nie's  disappearance,  wonder  if  it  was  not 
the  boy's  conscience  that  caused  the  crash 
which  may  take  his  life.     CBS  Radio. 


SEARCH  FOR  TOMORROW  The  sin- 
ister plot  in  which  little  Mr.  Higbee  has  so 
ingeniously  trapped  Joanne  Barron  begins 
to  show  a  few  holes  as  the  moment  of  Jo's 
greatest  danger  comes  close.  Higbee's  own 
cohorts  weaken  when  they  realize  what 
Jo's  trial  for  murder  is  doing  to  her  little 
daughter.  A  number  of  people  are  work- 
ing for  Jo — but  a  lot  of  power  has  been 
marshalled  against  her  as  well.  Can  her 
life  ever  be  the  same  after  this  crisis? 
CBS-TV. 

THE  SECOND  MRS.  BURTON  Stan 
Burton  has  been  married  to  Terry  for 
years,  and  Marcia  Burton  seems  at  last  to 
have  achieved  happiness  in  her  marriage 
to  Lew  Archer,  but  their  wealthy  mother 
has  never  relinquished  her  belief  that  noth- 
ing will  ever  be  right  until  her  children  are 
back  under  the  roof  of  Burton  Towers — 
with  or  without  their  families.  What  must 
happen  before  she  realizes  they  are  no 
longer  children?    CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Fearful  that 
Jane  Edwards  may  vanish  from  his  life, 
Peter  Ames  takes  decisive  action  to  force 
her  to  stay  in  spite  of  her  conviction  that 
she  will  bring  trouble  to  him  and  his 
children  because  of  her  past.  When  young 
Jerry  Ames  does  get  into  trouble,  Peter 
knows  he  is  on  the  verge  of  losing  the  only 
happiness  he  has  known  since  the  death 
of  his  wife.  Can  there  be  a  future  for 
Peter  and  Jane?    CBS-TV. 

THE  SEEKING  HEART  The  reaction 
from  a  tense  scene  with  Lorna  forces  Dr. 
Robin  McKay  to  face  something  she  might 
otherwise  have  avoided — the  knowledge 
that  her  admiration  of  her  chief,  Dr. 
Adams,  falls  very  little  short  of  love.  Will 
Dr.  Adams'  wife  Grace  take  advantage  of 
what  she  suspects  about  Robin  to  force 
certain  concessions  from  her  husband?  Will 
Robin's  desire  to  help  Lorna  lead  her  into 
an   indefensible   position?     CBS-TV. 

STELLA  DALLAS  Stella  watches,  heart- 
broken, as  her  daughter  Laurel  uncon- 
sciously falls  victim  to  Ada  Dexter's  insane 
plan.  Determined  to  make  Laurel  the  wife 
of  her  son,  Stanley  Warrick,  Ada  maneu- 
vers to  break  up  Laurel's  marriage  to  Dick 
Grosvenor.  With  the  help  of  Dick's  mother 
the  plan  is  close  to  fulfillment,  but  Stella 
is  still  fighting  to  save  her  child  from  a 
tragic  mistake.  Will  Stella  win  out  over 
her  enemies?    NBC  Radio. 

THIS  IS  NORA  DRAKE  For  some 
time  after  Nora's  marriage  to  Fred  Molina, 
Wyn  Robinson  was  able  to  pose  as  their 
friend.  But  Nora  never  fully  trusted  the 
wealthy  woman  who  was  once  in  love  with 
Fred,  and  as  the  Syndicate  becomes  an 
increasing  threat  to  her  happiness,  she  feels 
more  and  more  strongly  that  Wyn  has  a 
lot  to  do  with  the  threats  against  Fred. 
What  happens  when  Fred's  former  secre- 
tary comes  up  with  terrifying  news?  CBS 
Radio. 

THREE  STEPS  TO  HEAVEN  There 
are  some  women  who  never  give  up,  and 
Jennifer  Alden  apparently  is  one  of  them. 
Though  Bill  Morgan  made  it  plain  enough 
that  his  heart  belongs  to  his  wife,  Mary 
Clare,  Jennifer  comes  back  into  his  life 
with  new  plans  and  new  support  in  the 


person  of  Cliff  Jenkins,  who  has  his  own 
reason  for  not  wishing  Bill  well.  Is  it 
hatred  or  love  that  motivates  Jennifer — and 
will  she  become  her  own  victim?  NBC- 
TV. 

A  TIME  TO  LIVE  Several  men  have 
wanted  to  marry  Kathy  Byron,  but  none 
of  them  have  successfully  competed  with 
the  excitement  of  her  reporting  career — 
none  until  she  and  Chick  Buchanan  sud- 
denly realized  their  perfect  friendship  had 
turned  into  love.  Will  Kathy  remember 
that  as  Chick's  fiancee  she  must  be  more — 
and  less — than  a  sharp  girl  reporter?  If 
Chick  owes  a  narrow  escape  to  her  alert- 
ness, will  he  be  grateful — or  resentful? 
NBC-TV. 

VALIANT  LADY  When  Helen  Emerson 
first  became  a  widow,  Bill  Fraser  found 
himself  wondering  if  the  future  held  any- 
thing more  than  friendship  for  both  of 
them.  Now  he  knows  he  waited  too  long, 
for  the  entrance  of  pilot  Chris  Kennedy 
into  Helen's  life  changes  things  in  more 
ways  than  one.  How  would  Helen's  chil- 
dren feel  if  their  mother  showed  signs  of 
wanting  a  new  life  of  her  own?  Is  she 
ready  for  such  a  change?    CBS-TV. 

WENDY  WARREN  AND  THE  NEWS 

The  contribution  that  writer  Mark  Doug- 
las might  make  to  the  world  is  obscured 
by  the  strange  mental  confusion  which 
periodically  besets  him.  His  wife  Wendy 
already  knows  that  Mark  resents  and  fears 
her  efforts  to  help,  but  despite  this  she 
reaches  out  instinctively  when  he  is  head- 
ing for  trouble.  Will  her  love  prompt  her 
to  do  something  that  will  strain  the  rela- 
tionship between  them  beyond  mending? 
CBS  Radio. 

WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES  Although 
Harry  Davis  knows  that  nothing  could 
make  Joan  stop  loving  him,  he  cannot  help 
feeling  something  in  their  marriage  will 
change  if  he  remains  crippled  and  depend- 
ent on  Joan  for  so  much  help  and  support. 
Will  he  do  something  rash,  perhaps  per- 
manently damaging,  in  his  impatience  to 
be  well  again?  How  will  Joan  weather  the 
test  of  her  new  responsibilities  and  oc- 
cupation?    ABC   Radio. 

THE  WOMAN  IN  MY  HOUSE  Plans 
for  Carolyn's  marriage  seem  to  leave  Jeff 
Carter  completely  unconcerned.  Even  to 
himself  he  confesses  no  special  concern 
that  this  girl  in  whom  he  was  most  inter- 
ested .  .  .  but  not  to  the  point  of  marriage 
.  .  .  will  be  lost  to  him.  Only  his  mother 
wonders,  more  strongly  as  the  days  go  by, 
if  Jeff  isn't  piling  up  unhappiness  for  the 
future  by  the  solitary  path  he  has  chosen. 
Will  he  regret  it?    NBC  Radio. 

YOUNG  DR.  MALONE  When  Dr.  Jerry 
Malone  fell  in  love  with  Tracey  Adams  his 
good  friend  Dr.  Paul  Browne  almost  for- 
feited his  friendship  by  ominous  predic- 
tions about  the  future.  Paul  ate  his  words 
when  Tracey  agreed  to  marry  Jerry  and 
shared  in  the  happiness  felt  by  Jerry's 
mother.  But  will  the  future  justify  his 
original  doubts?  How  will  the  ambitious 
and  ruthless  Dr.  Ted  Mason  affect  both 
Jerry  and  the  Dineen  Clinic?    CBS  Radio. 

YOUNG    WIDDER    DROWN    In    her 

struggle  to  forget  Anthony  Loring,  Ellen 
Brown  turned  to  Michael  Forsyth,  and 
finally  began  to  hope  once  again  for  the 
happiness  that  had  eluded  her.  But  with 
the  postponement  of  her  marriage  to 
Michael  and  the  mystery  surrounding  him, 
Ellen  was  plunged  once  again  into  sorrow. 
She  does  not  suspect  that  her  stubborn 
refusal  to  give  up  faith  in  Michael  has 
become  a  challenge  to  her  enemies.  NBC 
Radio. 


to  hold  your  hair 
softly  in  place... all  day: 


NOW! 

a  hair  spray  with 


never,  never 

stiffens 
your 
hair 


aisis 


SUPER  SOFT 

spray  net 

spray  ne* 

for  all  you  women  who've  fri^in.nniKi 

turned  up  your  pretty  noses  at  a  hair  spray 

If  you  like  what  a  hair  fixative  does,  but  not  the  way  it  does  it, 
here,  at  last,  is  a  hair  spray  "made  to  order"  for  you. 

There's  not  a  drop  of  lacquer  in  Helene  Curtis 
Super  Soft  spray  net.  It's  a  miracle  of  almost- 
nothingness  that  holds  your  hair  in  place  so 
softly  you  won't  know  you've  used  a  fixative. 
Yet  your  hair  was  never  so  perfectly  behaved! 

And  during  the  day,  you  can  freshen  your 
hairdo  with  just  a  damp  comb.  No  need  to  re- 
spray  .  .  .  Super  Soft  spray  net  renews  itself  I  It 
brushes  out  instantly,  rinses  out  in  plain  water. 

Try  this  soft  answer  to  the  problem  of 
wandering  waves,  wispy  curls.  It  never  stiffens 
your  hair,  never  dries  it.  And  it  really  works! 

SUPER    SOFT    OR     REGULAR         T  I  25 

Giant  Economy  Size  $1.89.  Both  prices  plus  lax. 


no  lacquer! 

Just  a  damp  comb  freshens 
your  wave  . . .  even  hours 
later.  No  need  to  re-spray! 


no  lacquer! 

SUPER   SOFT   SPRAY   NET 

"sets"  pin  curls  in  minutes. 
You'll  love  the  newfragrance! 

Now  there  are  two  spray  nets  . . .  Regular  and  Super  Soft.  Both  wonderful 


Regular  SPRAY  NET  is  wonderful, 
too  . . .  but  for  different  reasons 

If  your  hair  is  thick  and  hard  to  manage,  or 
if  you  wear  elaborate  hairdos,  you'll  bless  the 
more  persuasive  control  of  Regular  spray  net. 
The  finest  of  its  kind  .  . .  favorite  of  millions ! 


«T.  M.  REG.  U.S.  PAT.  OFF. 

both  with  Spray-on  Lanolin  Lotion. 


23 


Junior  fans  jammed  the  WTVN-TV  studio  when  ringmas- 
ter Spook   Beckmon   held  a  Circus  masquerade  party. 


a  SPOOK 

named 
Beckman 


24 


Producer  Al  Sternberg  finds  it  a  bit  difficult  to  control 
the   mischievous    instincts   of   Spook   and   Carolyn    Ellis. 


Spook,  who  is  everybody's  favorite  clown,  once  offered 
himself  as  a  "gentleman's  gentleman"  in  a  Circus  stunt. 


Spook  Beckman  is  unfair  to  organized  ghosts, 
gremlins  and  other  sundry  spirits  ...  he  just  won't 
take  his  haunting  seriously.    Instead,  he  turns  it 
into  a  three-ring,  TV  fun-for-all  during  which 
the  laughter  is   anything   but   eerie.     Spook,   more 
formally  known  as  the  Clown  Prince  of  Columbus, 
Ohio,  is  ringmaster  of  the  Circus  show,  an 
audience-participation  hour  of  prize-winning  antics, 
zany  stunts  and  party  games  that  erupts  every 
weekday  afternoon  at  2:30  over  Station  WTVN-TV. 
Other  acts  along  the  Circus  midway  feature  singer 
Carolyn  Ellis,  the  program's  Gal  Monday-through- 
Friday,  music  by  Bill  Palmer,  songs  by  Mark  Anthony 
Knolls,  and  more  songs  by  Marilyn  Daye.  .  .  .  Born 
in  Illinois,  Spook  came  by  his  name  one  evening  while 
he  was  doing  guard  duty  at  Roosevelt  Military  Academy. 
His  light-blond  hair  against  the  evening  shadows 
produced  a   "spook"-like   effect,   Cadet  Beckman's 
buddies  said,  and  the  name  has  stuck.    After 
graduation  and  service  in  the  Marine  Corps,  Spook 
alighted  in  Sarasota,  Florida,  where  he  became 
one  of  the  outstanding  talents  at  Station  WSPB — and 
walked  14  miles  to  and  from  work  each  day  for  a 
full  year.   Other  adventures  followed — including 
one  in  which  Spook  almost  became  mayor  of  a 
Canadian  town — and  then  he  turned  up  in  Columbus. 
.  .   .  Here,  he  has  proved  himself  a  clown  with  a 
sense  of  civic  duty.   Last  year,  he  spent  a  week 
waiting  on  tables  at  the  Floor  Inn,  then  donated  his 
total  of  $475  in  tips  to  the  Polio  Foundation. 
Spook  Beckman  Day  for  the  Red  Cross  Blood  Bank 
ended  up  as  the  biggest  blood-donor  day  in  Columbus. 
When  the  Franklin  County  Tuberculosis  Hospital 
needed  funds,  Spook  had  their  hospital's  officials  appear 
on  his  show.  .  .  .  There  are  antics  a-plenty  with  Spook 
Beckman  and  as  much  as  62,000  fan  letters  a  week 
in  praise  of  them  and  him.   Once  Spook  auctioned 
himself  off  as  a  valet  for  people  who  have  always 
wanted  a  "gentleman's  gentleman"  but  could  never 
afford  one.  .  .  .  Spook  lives  in  a  small  efficiency 
apartment,  claims  his  office  is  his  inside  coat  pocket. 
One  thing  is  sure:   Gloom  doesn't  have  a  ghost  of  a 
chance  since  Spook  Beckman  came  to  Columbus. 


Kotex  now  comes  in  this  soft  grey  package 


Selected  by  thousands  of  women  as  first  choice  of 
many  designs  —  this  new  Kotex*  package  reflects 
the  quality  you've  learned  to  trust.  For  Kotex 
gives  you  the  complete  absorbency  you  need  .  .  . 
the  softness  you're  sure  of. 

Kotex  holds  its  shape,  keeps  its  comfortable  fit. 
Moreover,  this  is  the  only  leading  napkin  with 
flat  pressed  ends  to  prevent  revealing  outlines. 
So  look  for  the  new  Kotex  package  — soft  grev, 
with  a  graceful  K,  symbol  of  highest  quality. 


MORE      WOMEN       CHOOSE       KOTEX      THAN       ALL       OTHER      SANITARY      NAPKINS 


Your  choice  of  three  sizes. 
Regular— blue  panel  ;Junior 
—  green  panel :  Super  — 
rose  panel.  And  with  Kotex 
you'll  want  a  new  Kotex 
licit.  They  go  together  for 
perfect  comfort. 


T      M      REG      U.    S      PAT     OFF 


_ 


information 


Caliph  on  TV 

Dear  Editor: 

I'd  like  to  know  a  little  about  Richard 
Kiley,  one  of  my  favorites  on  TV  dramatic 
shows.  M.L.G.,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

One  of  the  most  exciting  moments  in 
the  stage,  movie,  radio  and  TV  career  of 
Chicago-born  Richard  Kiley  was  playing 
the  caliph  and  introducing  the  song, 
"Stranger  in  Paradise."  in  the  hit  musical 
"Kismet."  But  there  have  been  other  big 
moments  for  this  popular  actor — winning 
a  scholarship  to  the  Barnum  Dramatic 
School  in  Chicago;  touring  with  Judith 
Evelyn  in  the  national  company  of  "A 
Streetcar  Named  Desire";  co-starring  on 
Broadway  in  George  Bernard  Shaw's 
"Misalliance";  and,  this  fall,  playing  a 
lead  in  the  off-Broadway  production,  "Sing 
Me  No  Lullaby."  Richard  started  his  ca- 
reer by  acting  in  daytime  dramas  while 
still  in  school,  then  went  on  to  appear  in 
such  films  as  "Pickup  on  South  Street," 
"The  Mob,"  "Eight  Iron  Men,"  and  "The 
Sniper."  Today,  he  appears  frequently  in 
such  top  TV  dramatic  shows  as  Studio 
One,  Suspense,  Danger,  Schlitz  Playhouse, 
The  Web,  Kraft  Theater,  Robert  Mont- 
gomery Presents  (on  which  he  first  at- 
tracted attention  on  TV),  and  Lux 
Video  Theater. 

Richard  is  married  and  has  two  sons 
and  a  daughter.  His  hobbies  are  carpen- 
try and  athletics,  and  he  plays  handball 
and   swims  practically  every  day. 

Theme  Songs 

Dear  Editor: 

Would  you  I  ell  me  the  name  of  the 
beautiful  theme  music  of  The  Golden 
Windows  and  Concerning  Miss  Marlowe, 
both  on  NBC-TV? 

J.P.J.,  Clifton  Forge,  V a. 


Richard  Kiley 


Charita  Bauer 


The  theme  music  of  The  Golden  Win- 
dows is  "Julie's  Song,"  an  original  com- 
position by  Clarke  Morgan.  The  music 
for  Concerning  Miss  Marlowe  is  taken 
from  the  main  cello  theme  of  the  second 
movement  of  Brahms'  Second  Symphony. 

Name's  the  Same 

Dear  Editor: 

Can  you  tell  me  something  about  Char- 
ita Bauer  who  plays  Bert  on  The  Guiding 
Light?  Where  can  I  write  to  her? 

A.B.,   Saxonville,  Mass. 

Pert,  pretty  Charita  Bauer  is  in  the 
peculiar  position  of  being  the  mother  of 
two  seven-year-old  Michael  Bauers.  In 
The  Guiding  Light  on  CBS  Radio  and 
CBS-TV,  Charita  plays  Bertha  "Bert" 
Bauer,  a  typical  housewife — with  the 
same  family  name  as  Charita  bears  in 
private  life — and  the  mother  of  young 
"Michael  Bauer."  The  petite  brunette, 
who  is  scarcely  taller  than  either  of  her 
sons,  is  the  real-life  mother  of  her  own 
seven-year-old  Michael,  who  sometimes 
asks.  "Mommy,  which  Michael  do  you  love 
most?"  As  to  the  similarity  in  her  on- 
and  off-stage  lives,  Charita  laughs:  "I 
practically  spend  my  days  in  The  Guiding 
Light  washing  dishes,  making  beds,  cook- 
ing, ami  pulling  'Michael'  lo  bed,  and 
then  go  righl  home  ami  do  the  same  thing. 
However."  she  is  quick  to  admit,  "doing 
these  household  chores  on  radio  and  TV 
is  more  exciting." 

He's  From   Missouri 

Dear  Editor: 

I  would  like  to  know  about  Jim  Bannon, 

who  plays  Mitch  Fredericks  in  NBC-TV's 

Hawkins  Falls.  Where  can  I  write  lo  him? 

A.C.C.,  Baltimore,  Md. 

There  was  no  trace  of  the  fabled   Mis- 


souri stubbornness  in  Jim  Bannon  after 
he'd  gotten  his  first  taste  of  acting  in  a 
Rockhurst  College  version  of  "Good  News." 
The  tall  Kansas  City  Irishman  needed  no 
further  persuasion  and,  clutching  the 
"rave"  notices  the  school  paper  had  given 
him,  Jim  departed  for  Hollywood,  where 
he  was  signed  by  Columbia  Pictures.  After 
playing  minor  roles  in  several  Joe  Penner 
movies,  Jim  played  the  lead  in  "I  Love  a 
Mystery."  Next  he  made  the  leap  from 
suave  detective  to  stalwart  cowpoke  and 
for  the  next  three  years  he  appeared  in  a 
string  of  Westerns  as  "Red  Ryder."  Al- 
though during  that  time  Jim  learned  to 
play  polo,  a  game  he  still  enjoys,  he  was 
more  than  glad  to  hang  up  his  boots  and 
move  to  Chicago  and  Hawkins  Falls  in 
1951. 

Jim,  alias  Mitchell  Fredericks,  stands 
six-feet-three,  weighs  180  pounds  and  has 
dark  hair  and  gray  eyes.  You  can  write 
to  him,  c/o  Hawkins  Falls,  NBC-TV,  Mer- 
chandise Mart,  Chicago,  111. 

Calling  All  Clubs 

Beginning  next  month,  for  the  con- 
venience of  its  readers,  TV  Radio  Mirror 
will  publish  a  short  list  of  fan  clubs  seek- 
ing new  members.  If  your  club  wants  new 
members,  send  the  name  of  the  club — and 
the  address  to  which  readers  can  write  for 
more  information — to:  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St., 
New  York  17,  N.  Y.  If  you  are  interested 
in  joining  a  fan  club,  watch  this  column 
for  the  names  of  your  favorite  stars. 

The  Balloon  Went  Up 

Dear  Editor: 

I  would  like  to  know  about  that  wonder- 
ful singer,  Earl  Wrightson,  who  is  heard 
on  CBS-TV's  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show. 

C.W .,  Reading,  Pa. 


Jim  Bannon 


2fi 


booth 


Earl  Wrightson 


Earl  Wrightson.  slim,  blue-eyed  man 
about  music,  was  born  thirty-seven  years 
ago  in  Baltimore,  Maryland,  the  youngest 
in  a  family  of  eight  children.  His  father 
was  a  Methodist  minister,  and  the  man 
who  first  recognized  and  trained  Earl's 
voice  was  the  church  choir  master.  After 
graduation  from  Baltimore  Polytechnical 
and  Baltimore  City  College,  Earl  launched 
his  own  radio  program  on  a  local  station. 
Next  he  came  to  New  York  and  hit  the 
big-time  music  centers — as  a  page  boy  in 
Radio  City  and  a  student  of  Robert  Weede 
of  the  Metropolitan  Opera.  His  big  break 
came  when  he  was  delivering  some  music 
to  Walter  Damrosch,  who  was  rehearsing 
his  orchestra  and  wanted  to  run  through 
the  music.  "As  there  was  no  soloist 
around,"  Earl  recalls,  "I  just  sang  the 
part.  See,  I  was  just  standing  around 
when  the  balloon  went  up." 

Earl's  been  singing  on  radio,  television 
and  stage  ever  since — on  Music  In  The  Air, 
The  Family  Hour,  Great  Moments  In 
Music,  I  Hear  America  Singing  and  as  a 
guest  with  Andre  Kostelanetz.  Morton 
Gould.  On  TV,  he's  been  star  of  his  own 
show,  Paul  Whiteman  Revue  and  now  the 
Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show.  When  not  singing. 
Earl  spends  his  time  in  Glen  Head,  New 
York,  with  his  wife  Marky  and  their  nine- 
year-old   daughter  Wendy. 


FOR    YOUR    INFORMATION— If 

there's  something  you  want  to  know  about 
radio  and  television,  write  to  Information 
Booth,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd 
St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if 
we  can,  provided  your  question  is  of  gen- 
eral interest.  Answers  will  appear  in  this 
column — but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to 
your  letter,  and  specify  whether  your  ques- 
tion concerns  radio  or  TV. 


"Yes,  I  use  Lustre-Creme  Shampoo," 
says  Doris  Day.  It's  the  favorite  of 
4  out  of  5  top  Hollywood  movie  stars! 

It  never  dries  your  hair!  Lustre- 
Creme  Shampoo  is  blessed  with 
lanolin  .  .  .  foams  into  rich  lather, 
even  in  hardest  water  .  .  .  leaves 
hair  so  easy  to  manage. 

It  beautifies!  For  soft,  bright,  fra- 
grantly clean  bair — without  special 
after-rinses — choose  the  shampoo  of 
America's  most  glamorous  women. 
Use  the  favorite  of  Hollywood  movie 
stars — Lustre-Creme  Shampoo. 


J4Mto^Jw&(z  Lustre  -Creme  Shampoo 

Never  Dries— 


m 


,       '■'  'iiyaW 


Tw  ~t) 


Of 


co-starring  in  "YOUNG  AT  HEART"  An  Arwin  Production 
in  WamerColor.  Presented  by  Warner  Bros. 


J 


ociess 


Only  New  Design  Mocless  gives  you  the  luxury  of  a  new 
whisper-soft  fabric  covering  .  .  .  no  gauze  .  .  .  no  chafe. 


My  Daughter,  Betty  White 


By  MRS.  TESS  WHITE 


Those  ivould  be  proud  words  for  any  mother,  but  I'm 
especially  proud — because  of  what  I  know  about  Betty  I 


My  daughter,  Betty  White,  has  a  philosophy  of  life  which  grew  out 
of  a  series  of  hard  knocks.  In  the  ten  years  that  she  has  been  climbing 
up  the  slim  rope  of  success  in  the  entertainment  industry,  she  has 
frequently  slipped,  but  she  has  never  given  up  trying.   The  philosophy 
which  has.  sprung  from  these  struggles?   She  says  it  in  just  five  words:  "I 
don't  believe  in  defeat." 

Betty  learned  this  lesson  very  early  in  her  career;  she  was  only  two 
when  we  moved  from  Oak  Park,  Illinois,  to  California.  She  went  to  Horace 
Mann  Junior  High  School  here  in  Los  Angeles,  and  then  to  Beverly  Hills 

See  Next  Page 


29 


My  Daughter,  Betty  White 


(Continued) 


Success  isn't  easy.  As  Betty  tells  me,  "The  secret  is  to 
hang  on  when  everything  seems  to  be  going  against  you." 


High  School — and  in  all  these  years  she  hoped  some- 
day to  grow  up  to  be  an  operatic  singer. 

Betty  worked  hard  for  what  she  called  the  "big 
voice."  Rather  than  go  on  to  college  when  she  finished 
high  school,  she  decided  to  continue  her  study  of 
music,  concentrating  on  her  singing  career.  She  had 
every  reason  to  do  so.  She  did  have  the  raw  material 
of  a  good  voice;  it  was  developing  well;  and  she  had 
the  encouragement  of  her  teacher,  Felix  Hughes,  the 
brother  of  the  writer,  Rupert  Hughes,  and  himself 
once  a  well-known  opera  singer.  So,  with  all  this  be- 
hind her,  Betty  looked  forward  to  a  lifetime  dream 
come  true:  a  successful  career  on  the  opera  stage. 

Then  fate  stepped  in.  Betty  was  stricken  with  a 
strep  throat.  It  was  no  ordinary  infection;  rather,  it 
was  very  much  like  a  seige,  a  six-weeks'  battle  for 
Betty's  life.  She  was  bedridden  for  almost  two  months, 
during  which  time  the  fever — fought  with  the  then- 
new  sulfa  drugs — gradually  waned.  But,  when  the 
fever  left  her,  it  took  the  best  part  of  her  voice  along 
with  it.  During  the  weeks  Betty  was  recouping  her 
strength,  she  was  able  only  to  smile  and  croak,  "Hello." 

Yes,  she  was  a  discouraged  little  girl.  But  I  think 
it  was  right  then  that  she  decided  not  to  be  beaten. 
True,  she  had  lost  everything  she  had  dreamed  about, 
worked  toward  for  years,  but  she  didn't  give  up.  In 
fact,  she  told  me  one  day:  "Mother,"  she  said,  "you 
know,  things  aren't  so  black  after  all." 

"What  do  you  mean?"  I  asked. 

"Well,"  she  said,  "it  seems  obvious  to  me.  I've  lost 
my  voice.  Everything  I've  planned  on  is  down  the 
drain.  Now  there's  only  one  way  for  my  luck  to  go. 
It  can't  get  any  worse — that  means  it  has  to  get  better!" 

And .  Betty  really  felt  fortunate.  She  thought  her 
situation  quite  encouraging.  She  reasoned  that  there 
was  only  one  way  she  could  go  now — and  that  was  up. 

She  decided  that,  if  she  couldn't  do  the  "big"  things, 
she  would  do  the  best  with  the  tools  she  had.  Though 
her  father  and  I  thought  she  was  still  spending  her 
afternoons    rebuilding    her   voice    with    Mr.    Hughes, 


Betty's  idea  of  play  is  usually  something  constructive — whether  she's  at  the  piano  or  out  in  the  workshop. 


30 


Life  With  Elizabeth  is  Betty's  own  brain-child.  Del  Moore  is  the  young  man  who  plays  "Elizabeth's"  husband,  "Alvin. 


when  she  was  well  enough  to  be  up  and  about,  we 
eventually  found  to  our  surprise  that  she  was  out 
pounding  the  pavements.  She  was  going  from  agent 
to  agent,  trying  to  find  a  job  suited  to  her  talents. 

Her  perseverance  payed  off.  She  finally  got  a  one- 
line  bit  in  a  radio  commercial,  through  a  Mr.  Van 
Heidensfelt.  He  was  with  an  agency,  and  Betty,  I 
think,  looked  a  little  pathetic  and  desperate.  She 
certainly  didn't  need  the  job,  for  she  always  had  a 
home — but  she  did  want  the  break  she  thought  the 
commercial  job  would  give  her. 


I  forget  what  the  exact  payment  was.  Something 
like  twenty-five  dollars — and  it  cost  her  father  thirty- 
nine-fifty  to  have  her  join  the  federation  of  radio 
and  TV  artists! 

So  Betty  was  never  an  opera  singer.  After  the  first 
disappointment  of  her  illness,  she  marshaled  her 
courage  and  reorganized  her  plan  of  life.  If  she 
couldn't  sing,  she'd  talk.  And  that's  how  she  launched 
her  career — with  that  first  radio  commercial  and  with 
many  others  that  followed.  It  wasn't  long  before  Betty 
was  doing  a  regular  part  on  [Continued  on  page  77) 


The  Betty  White  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Mondays  through  Fridays,  at  12  noon  EST.  Life  With  Elizabeth,  distributed  by  Guild  Films  Co., 
Inc.,    is    seen    on    TV    stations    throughout    the    U.    S.    and    Canada;    consult   local    papers  for   time   and   station. 


She  enjoys  working  with  Del  Sharbutt  and  Frank  DeVol  on  The  Betty  White  Show — then  snatches  a  snack  from  my  kitchen! 


r. 


My  Daughter,  Betty  White 


(Continued) 


Success  isn't  easy.  As  Betty  tells  me,  "The  secret 
hang  on  when  everything  seems  to  be  going  against 


is  to 
you." 


High  School— and  in  all  these  years  she  hoped  some- 
day to  grow  up  to  be  an  operatic  singer. 

Betty  worked  hard  for  what  she  called  the  "big 
voice."  Rather  than  go  on  to  college  when  she  finished 
high  school,  she  decided  to  continue  her  study  of 
music,  concentrating  on  her  singing  career.  She  had 
every  reason  to  do  so.  She  did  have  the  raw  material 
of  a  good  voice;  it  was  developing  well;  and  she  had 
the  encouragement  of  her  teacher,  Felix  Hughes,  the 
brother  of  the  writer,  Rupert  Hughes,  and  himself 
once  a  well-known  opera  singer.  So,  with  all  this  be- 
hind her,  Betty  looked  forward  to  a  lifetime  dream 
come  true:  a  successful  career  on  the  opera  stage. 

Then  fate  stepped  in.  Betty  was  stricken  with  a 
strep  throat.  It  was  no  ordinary  infection;  rather,  it 
was  very  much  like  a  seige,  a  six-weeks'  battle  for 
Betty's  life.  She  was  bedridden  for  almost  two  months 
during  which  time  the  fever — fought  with  the  then- 
new  sulfa  drugs — gradually  waned.  But,  when  the 
fever  left  her,  it  took  the  best  part  of  her  voice  along 
with  it  During  the  weeks  Betty  was  recouping  her 
strength,  she  was  able  only  to  smile  and  croak,  "Hello." 

Yes,  she  was  a  discouraged  little  girl.  But  I  think 
it  was  right  then  that  she  decided  not  to  be  beaten. 
True,  she  had  lost  everything  she  had  dreamed  about, 
worked  toward  for  years,  but  she  didn't  give  up.  In 
fact,  she  told  me  one  day:  "Mother,"  she  said,  "you 
know,  things  aren't  so  black  after  all." 

"What  do  you  mean?"  I  asked. 

"Well,"  she  said,  "it  seems  obvious  to  me.  I've  lost 
my  voice.  Everything  I've  planned  on  is  down  the 
drain.  Now  there's  only  one  way  for  my  luck  to  go. 
It  can't  get  any  worse— that  means  it  has  to  get  better!" 

And.  Betty  really  felt  fortunate.  She  thought  her 
situation  quite  encouraging.  She  reasoned  that  there 
was  only  one  way  she  could  go  now — and  that  was  up. 

She  decided  that,  if  she  couldn't  do  the  "big"  things, 
she  would  do  the  best  with  the  tools  she  had.  Though 
her  father  and  I  thought  she  was  still  spending  her 
afternoons   rebuilding   her   voice   with   Mr.    Hughes, 


Betty',  idea  of  play  is  usually  something  constructive-whether  she's  at  the  piano  or  out  in  the  workshop 


Life  With  Elirabeth  is  Betty's  own  brain-child.  Del  Moore  is  the  young  man  who  plays  "Elizabeth's"  husband,  "Alvin 


when  she  was  well  enough  to  be  up  and  about,  we 
eventually  found  to  our  surprise  that  she  was  out 
pounding  the  pavements.  She  was  going  from  agent 
to  agent,  trying  to  find  a  job  suited  to  her  talents. 

Her  perseverance  payed  off.  She  finally  got  a  one- 
line  bit  in  a  radio  commercial,  through  a  Mr.  Van 
Heidensfelt.  He  was  with  an  agency,  and  Betty,  I 
think,  looked  a  little  pathetic  and  desperate.  She 
certainly  didn't  need  the  job,  for  she  always  had  a 
home— but  she  did  want  the  break  she  thought  the 
commercial  job  would  give  her. 


I  forget  what  the  exact  payment  was.  Something 
like  twenty-five  dollars— and  It  cost  her  father  thirty- 
nine-flfty  to  have  her  join  the  federation  of  radio 
and  TV  artists! 

So  Betty  was  never  an  opera  singer.  After  the  first 
disappointment  of  her  illness,  she  marshaled  her 
courage  and  reorganized  her  plan  of  life.  If  she 
couldn't  sing,  she'd  talk.  And  that's  how  she  launched 
her  career — with  that  first  radio  commercial  and  with 
many  others  that  followed.  It  wasn't  long  before  Betty 
was  doing  a  regular  part  on  (Continued  on  page  77) 


The  Betty  White  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Mondays  through  Fridays,  at  12  noon  EST.  Life  With  Elizabeth,  distributed  by  Guild  Films  Co., 
Inc.,    is   seen    on    TV    stations    throughout    the    U.    S.    and    Canada;    consult  local   papers  for  time  and  station. 


She  enjoys  working  with  Del  Sharbuft  and  Frank  DeVol  on  The  Betty  White  Show — then  snatches  a  snack  from  my  kitchen! 


±h 


HOST  with 


Relaxing  in  a  big  way  on  their  farm:  Sylvia  and  Ed  Sullivan,  with  "Bojangles 


32 


th 


Like  his  show,  Toast  Of  The  Town, 
Ed  Sullivan's  the  biggest  and  best — 
in  ideas,  achievement,  and  heart 

By  LIZ  NICHOLS 

Tomorrow,"  said  Ed  Sullivan  grinning  like  a  kid 
with  a  candy  apple,  "tomorrow  they'll  be  putting 
up  the  fence  I  ordered  to  keep  the  cows  off  the 
lawn." 

"Yes,"  said  Sylvia,  his  spouse  for  twenty-four  years, 
"but  tomorrow  is  the  day  you're  supposed  to  qualify  for 
the  Championship  Tournament  in  Westchester." 

Ed  shrugged  unconcernedly,  "Oh,  I  don't  think  I 
can  do  that,"  he  said.  "They  may  need  a  hand  to  help 
with  the  fence."    And,  as  Sylvia  looked  dubious, 
he  added,  "Anyway,  the  fence  is  more  fun!" 

Carmine  Santullo,  Ed's  office  major-domo  and  good 
right  arm,  joined  Sylvia  in  a  gasp  of  astonishment. 
Up  to  the  advent  of  the  farm  in  his  life,  golf  was 


Always  on  hand  at  the  Sullivan  office:  Carmine 
Santullo  (left),  Jean  Bombard  (right),  and  "Bojangles" — 
who  may  act  up,  but  not  so  his  master  notices  it! 


Toast  Of  The  Town  has  presented  many  famous 
TV  debuts — including  those  of  Margaret  Truman  (above,  with 
Ed,  just  before  that  first  performance)  and  Jackie 
Gleason  (below,  with  Ed  and  his  co-producer,  Mario  Lewis). 


Daughter  Betty  was  the  center  of  Ed's  and  Sylvia's  household,  right  up  until  her  marriage  to  Ensign  Robert  H. 
Pr.echt.   Now  there's  a  completely  furnished  apartmeht  awaiting  the  young  couple's  visits  at  the  Sullivans'  new  farm. 


the  HOST"  with  the  MOST 

{Continued) 


The   farm   has   become  the   big   thing   in    Ed   Sullivan's   life, 
and  he  drives  up  from  New  York  City  every  chance  he  gets. 


Ed  Sullivan's  reigning  passion.  Whenever  he  could  beg, 
borrow  or  steal  a  second  from  his  busy  schedule,  he 
rushed  to  the  nearest  fairway. 

Surprising  as  it  is,  Ed's  indifference  about  a  game  of 
golf  is  nowhere  near  as  amazing  as  is  the  fact  that  he 
has  become  a  landowner  at  all.  Ed  and  Sylvia  Sullivan 
were  considered,  by  everyone  who  knew  them,  as  the 
world's  most  confirmed  "cliff-dwellers."  For  all  their 
married  life,  they  have  lived  in  two  heart-of-the-city 
hotels  in  New  York.  And,  aside  from  a  few  personal 
knickknacks,  they  seemed  to  regard  possessions  of  any 
kind  simply  as  things  to  be  given  away  or  otherwise 
disposed  of  as  quickly  as  possible.  Now,  suddenly,  Sylvia 
Sullivan  finds  herself  shopping  for  linens  and  stowing 
away  canned  goods,  while  her  ever-lovin'  mulls  the 
merits  of  assorted  tractors,  harvesting  machines  and  all 
manner  of  dairy  implements. 

Sullivan-like,  Ed's  playing  the  squire  to  the  hilt. 

Of  course,  he  has  never  done  anything  by  halves.  It 
wasn't  in  him— when  he  decided  to  acquire  roots,  one 
day  last  spring — simply  to  purchase  a  house  and  lot.  He 
had  to  wind  up  with  The  Farm — five  fully  furnished 
structures,  including  a  nine-room  house,  surrounded  by 
150  acres  of  grazing  lands,  and  landscaped  terraces.  Plus 
a  tenant  farmer  and  his  family  and  thirty  head  of  fine 
dairy  cows! 

It's  the  same  with  Toast  Of  The  Town — everything 
about  it  has  to  be  the  biggest  and  best  of  its  kind,  and  it 
garners  the  highest  ratings  .  .  .  the  same  with  his  five- 
times-a-week  column — that's  In  the  nation's  largest  cir- 
culation papers.  And  Ed's  the  same  way  about  people. 
He  goes  all  out.  His  friends'  triumphs  are  his,  their  sor- 
rows make  him  unhappy.  He's  a  guy  on  whom  other 
people  have  learned  they  can  lean. 


Ed  Sullivan  and  hi9  Toast  Of  The  Town  are  seen  over  CBS-TV,  Sun., 
from  8  to  9  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  the  Lincoln-Mercury  Dealers. 


34 


nt 


■•■ 


|     T4 


s 


I 

/ 


New  center  of  interest  in  the  Sullivan  family  today  is  baby   Robert  Edward   Precht.  Left  to  right,   Sylvia  and 
Ed,  Betty,  her  son  "Robbie"  and  husband  Bob.  (Of  course,  "Bojangles"  had  to  get  into  the  picture  with  Ed,  too.) 


Britisher  Bea  Lillie  was  in  the  U.  S.  when  George  VI 
passed  away.  This  was  an  event  of  personal  tragedy  to 
the  gentle  monarch's  subjects — of  whom  Miss  Lillie  ranks 
with  the  most  loyal.  So  she  turned  for  consolation  to 
Irishman  Ed  Sullivan  and  saw  nothing  incongruous  in 
the  choice  .  .  .  because,  as  we've  said,  that's  the  kind  of  a 
•guy  he  is.  Ed  helped  her  dry  her  tears,  and  treated  her 
to  a  night  on  the  town  as  an  added  measure  of  forget- 
fulness. 

When  Julius  La  Rosa  Was  fired  by  Godfrey  and  the 
papers  were  making  headlines  of  his  romance  with  Dottie 
McGuire,  it  was  Ed  Sullivan — then   only   a  very  new 


acquaintance — to  whom  Julie  turned  .  .  .  and  Ed  had  the 
right  answer  for  him.  He  took  Julius  to  see  and  talk 
with  a  friend  who  is  a  Catholic  priest,  and  he  stayed 
with  the  troubled  lad  until,  two  hours  later,  Julie  emerged 
from  the  interview  calm  and  confident  again. 

The  point  has  not  been  generally  made,  but — if  Ed 
Sullivan  weren't  a  truly  "good  guy" — he  might  not  be  a 
famous  star  in  show  business  at  all.  It  was  through  his 
work  in  staging  benefit  shows  and  emceeing  them — for 
free — that  he  was  first  invited  to  appear  as  master  of 
ceremonies  with  a  professional  revue  at  the  New  York 
Paramount  Theater.  He  went    {Continued  on  page  94) 


Solf  has  been  Ed's  great  hobby — with  such  noted  players 
as  Jimmy  Fidler  (left),  Bing  Crosby,  and  Bob  Hope  (right). 


Always  sports-minded:  That's  young    Ed,   first  in 
middle  row,  with  the  Port  Chester  H.  S.  ball  team. 


4 


Eve's  and  Brooks'  new  ranch  in  Hidden  Valley  means  even 
more  than  "home."    1+  helped  explain  the  blessed  event! 


Liza  and  Connie  are  old  enough  to  know  the  truth.  (Brother 
Duncan's  just  old   enough   to   marvel   over  a   new  baby.) 


Our  Miss  Brooks  is  Been  on  CBS-TV,  Fri.,  9:30  P.M.,  sponsored  by 
General  Foods.  Our  Miss  Brooks  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Sun.,  8 
P.M.,  for  Hi--  Toni  Co.  and  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  (All  EST) 


IN  HER  HANDS 


By  JERRY  ASHER 


The  year  1954  was  quite  an  eventful  one  in 
the  entertainment  world.  Frank  Sinatra  gained 
five  pounds,  Liberace  bought  a  $25,000  Cadillac 
upholstered  with  black  and  white  leather 
piano  keys,  Mr.  Peepers  got  married — and  Own 
Miss  Brooks  had  a  baby! 

Of  course,  Mr.  Peepers  had  nothing  to  do  with 
glorious  motherhood  descending  upon  Our  Miss 
Brooks.    But,  on  the  other  hand,  Sergeant 
Friday  did.    Sergeant  Friday!    Now  how  did  he 
get  in  the  act?  Well,  as  everyone  from  San 
Diego  to  Saskatchewan  knows,  our  lovable  Miss 
Brooks  is  the  most  famous  schoolteacher  on 
television,  she's  also  our  lovable  Eve  Arden  in 
professional  life,  and  in  private  life  she's  the 
lovable  Mrs.  Brooks  West.  All  of  which  brings  us 
up  to  Sergeant  Friday — in  a  round-about  sort  of 
way.  Because  a  happy  little  "ham-ster"  by  the 
name  of  Douglas  Brooks  West  was  so  eager  to 
take  his  first  bow,  he  kicked  up  quite  a  scene 
twenty-four  hours  (Continued  on  page  84) 


36 


Introducing   Douglas   Brooks  West — whose  mother  Eve  was  the  only  person  who  took  his  arrival  calmly. 

With  a  baby  of  her  own,  Eve  Arden— our  Mrs.  Brooks  West- 
says:  "I  have  everything  a  woman  could  want!" 


37 


*♦ 


'"'  "^ 


E3£ 


•*»** 


Rosemary  and  Bill  Roberts  know  that 


love  is  eternal— for  all  the  world  to  share 


C 


Iountless  poets  throughout  the  ages  have  penned  endless 
verses  about  love  .  .  .  for  every  heart  in  love  there  is  a  song  of  joy  to 
be  sung  .  .  .  for  every  romancing  couple,  love  opens  the  door 
to  emotions  beyond  compare,  to  happiness  that  knows  no  bounds. 
Love  is  timeless,  universal,  indestructible;  it  can  conquer  fear, 
adversity,  despair.  The  love  of  a  man  and  woman,  nurtured  through 
the  years,  deepens  and  mellows — becomes  richer  and  more  satisfying 
with  each  passing  day.  .  .  .  Such  is  the  love  of  Rosemary  and  Bill 
Roberts.    Through  each  crisis  that  has  entered  their  lives — and  there 
have  been  many — Rosemary  and  Bill  have  found  the  source  of  their 
strength  and  courage  to  conquer  come-what-may  in  their  mutual 
love.  Bill,  as  editor  of  the  Banner,  has  dedicated  himself  and  his 
newspaper  to  fighting  and  overcoming  the  forces  of  crime  and 
corruption  which  try  to  take  root  in  Springdale.    At  the  same  time, 
Rosemary — with  her  instinctive  faith  in  the  goodness  of  mankind, 
her  compassion  for  her  fellow  man — has  worked  tirelessly  with  the 
Boys  Club  in  trying  to  combat  delinquency  among  teenagers. 
Oftentimes,  Rosemary  and  Bill  have  differed  in  their  opinions  about 
a  particular  person  or  project.     Often,  too,  their  happiness  has 
been  threatened,  their  lives  fraught  with  tragedy.    But,  always, 
Rosemary  has  remained  steadfast  and  unwavering  in  her  love  for 
Bill.  .  .  .  "Rosemary"  is  the  traditional  symbol  of  remembrance,  and 
Valentine's  Day  is  dedicated  to  lovers.    It's  the  perfect  time  for 
Bill  Roberts  to  show  with  all  his  heart  his  true  love  and  devotion 
to  one  who  shall  never  forget  it — Rosemary,  herself. 

Rosemary,  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  11:45  A.M.  EST,  is  sponsored  by  Procter  & 
Gamble  for  Ivory  Snow.  Virginia  Kaye  and  Casey  Allen  are  pictured,  at  left,  in 
their  regular  roles  as  Rosemary  and  her  husband,  Bill  Roberts. 


39 


Mmiafa/ 


Rosemary  and  Bill  Roberts  know  that 
love  is  eternal— for  all  the  world  to  share 


\ 


\^>4ountless  poets  throughout  the  ages  have  penned  endless 
verses  about  love  ...  for  every  heart  in  love  there  is  a  song  of  joy  to 
be  sung  ...  for  every  romancing  couple,  love  opens  the  door 
to  emotions  beyond  compare,  to  happiness  that  knows  no  bounds. 
Love  is  timeless,  universal,  indestructible;  it  can  conquer  fear, 
adversity,  despair.  The  love  of  a  man  and  woman,  nurtured  through 
the  years,  deepens  and  mellows — becomes  richer  and  more  satisfying 
with  each  passing  day.  .  .  .  Such  is  the  love  of  Rosemary  and  Bill 
Roberts.    Through  each  crisis  that  has  entered  their  lives — and  there 
have  been  many — Rosemary  and- Bill  have  found  the  source  of  their 
strength  and  courage  to  conquer  come-what-may  in  their  mutual 
love.  Bill,  as  editor  of  the  Banner,  has  dedicated  himself  and  his 
newspaper  to  fighting  and  overcoming  the  forces  of  crime  and 
corruption  which  try  to  take  root  in  Springdale.    At  the  same  time, 
Rosemary — with  her  instinctive  faith  in  the  goodness  of  mankind, 
her  compassion  for  her  fellow  man — has  worked  tirelessly  with  the 
Boys  Club  in  trying  to  combat  delinquency  among  teenagers. 
Oftentimes,  Rosemary  and  Bill  have  differed  in  their  opinions  about 
a  particular  person  or  project.     Often,  too,  their  happiness  has 
been  threatened,  their  lives  fraught  with  tragedy.    But,  always, 
Rosemary  has  remained  steadfast  and  unwavering  in  her  love  for 
Bill.  .  .  .  "Rosemary"  is  the  traditional  symbol  of  remembrance,  and 
Valentine's  Day  is  dedicated  to  lovers.    It's  the  perfect  time  for 
Bill  Roberts  to  show  with  all  his  heart  his  true  love  and  devotion 
to  one  who  shall  never  forget  it — Rosemary,  herself. 

Rosemary,  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  11:45  A.M.  EST,  is  sponsored  by  Procter  & 
Gamble  for  Ivory  Snow.  Virginia  Kaye  and  Casey  Allen  are  pictured,  at  left,  in 
their  regular  roles  as  Rosemary  and  her  husband,  Bill  Roberts. 


LITTLE  BLACK  LAMB 


! 


arm 


Singing  and  early  rising  were  part  of  my  life  on  the  farm. 
Now  they're  mighty  important  in  my  wonderful  job  with 
Don  McNeill  (center)  and  Sam  Cowling  on  Breakfast  Club. 


Always  a  tomboy — and  I  play  a  pretty  good  game  of  golf 
today.  I  chose  my  Chicago  apartment  because  it's  near  a 
nitve-hole  public  course,  and  practice  shots  indoors,  too. 


A  few  days  ago,  I  happened  to  be  walking  up  North 
Michigan  Avenue  near  my  apartment  in  Chicago. 
The  wind  was  blowing  wisps  of  smoke  like  chilly 
rags,  and  I  saw  a  little  boy  standing  at  the  curbside, 
looking  forlornly  across  the  traffic.  For  some  reason,  he 
reminded  me  of  something  out  of  my  childhood  as 
a  girl  on  a  farm  in  Pennsylvania. 

The  "something"  that  he  recalled  was  a  fact  about 
little  black  sheep,  the  four-legged  kind,  and  only  a 
one-time  farm  child  would  be  likely  to  know  it.  We 
lived  on  a  600-acre  farm  near  Fredonia  on  Route  19  on 
the  way  to  Erie.  Among  other  animals  on  the  home 
place,  we  raised  a  few  sheep  and  one  of  the  facts  I 
learned  about  them,  as  a  child,  was  that  a  mother  sheep 
doesn't  take  very  good  care  of  any  little  black  lambs 
that  she  bears.  Perhaps  they  look  strange  to  her.  What- 
ever the  reason,  it  is  often  the  case  that  farm  folks 
have  to  take  over  the  care  of  feeding  and  tending  a 
little  black  lamb. 

Although  we   lived  on   a    (Continued   on   page   93) 

Eileen  Parker  sings  on  Don  McNeill's  Breakfast  Club,  ABC-TV  and 
ABC  Radio,  M-F,  9  A.M.  EST— sponsored  on  radio  by  Swift  &  Co., 
Philco  Corp.,  Quaker  Oats  Co.,  Rockwood  &  Co.,  ReaLemon-Puritan 
Co.,  Olson  Rug  Co. — sponsored  on  TV  by  Philco  and  Quaker  Oats. 


\Jne  of  eleven  children,  I  was  always  "different" — maybe  that's  why  I  belong  on 


40 


By 
EILEEN 
PARKER 


Breakfast  Club 


BELIEVING 


Helen  had  faith  in  Florian  ZaBach 
and  his  violin— and  helped  them 
prove  that  nothing  is  impossible 
By  BUD  GOODE 


At 'home  with  his  wife  Helen  and  pets  "Prince" 
and  "Mac,"  ZaBach  remembers  some  desperate 
days — when  Helen  never  once  complained.  Now 
Florian  can  afford  to  indulge  in  his  hobbies,  but 
still  spends  long  hours  of  practice  with  his  violin. 


The  phone  rang  in  the  hall  of  the  modest  New  York 
apartment.   Its  ring  set  up  a  sympathetic  vibration 
on  the  strings  of  a  rare  Guarnerius  violin, 
interrupting  the  practice  of  the  blond,  blue-eyed  young 
giant  standing  beside  his  music  rack  in  the  adjoining 
room.   Gently  placing  the  fiddle  in  its  protective 
case,  he  strode  to  the  phone. 
"Florian  ZaBach?"  an  unknown  voice  queried. 
"Speaking." 

"This  is  Mr.  Reuben  Kaufman  of  Guild  Films." 
"Yes,  sir." 

"Would  you  lunch  with  me  tomorrow,  Mr.  ZaBach? 
I'd  like  to  discuss  (Continued  on  page  73) 


The  Florian  ZaBach  Show,  a  Guild  Films  production,  can  be  seen  on 
most  major  TV  stations;  consult  local  newspapers  for  time  and  day. 


Talent  Scouts  gave  ZaBach  his  first  big  break  on  TV  and 
Florian  has  never  ceased  being  grateful  to  Arthur  Godfrey. 


Their  duck  pond   in   Princeton   reminds   Fred  and   Florence  of  their  Indiana  childhood. 


The  GREATEST  Question 


That's  what  Fred  Van  Deventer 
asked  Florence  Rinard.    The  answer 
grew  up  to  be  Nancy  and  Bobby 
and  the  quiz  game,  Twenty  Questions ! 
By  FRANCES  KISH 


Twenty    Questions    foursome:    Florence    Rinard,    husband 
Fred  Van  Deventer,  daughter  Nancy,  son  Bobby  McSuire. 


The  question  was,  \hat  summer  back  in  1945: 
What  could  the  Van  Deventers    (Fred,  Flor- 
ence and  the  kids,  Nancy  and  Bobby)   think 
up  in  the  way  of  a  quiz  show  which  could  be  put 
on  the  air  and  be  fun  for  everyone? 

Fifteen-year-old  Nancy  came  up  with  an  idea: 
Why  not  do  their  own  favorite  family  quiz, 
"Twenty  Questions" — sometimes  called  "Animal, 
Vegetable  or  Mineral"?  Why  not  play  it  on  radio 
the  same  way  they  always  played  it  at  home? 

So  they  did,  and  have  been  living  happily  ever 
after,  having  more  fun  than  they  had  dreamed 
could    be    possible    in    the    days    when    "Twenty 


Questions"  was  merely  something  to  amuse  the 
children — especially  during  the  Depression  years, 
when  there  was  little  money  for  movies  or  other 
outside  entertainment. 

This  February,  Twenty  Questions  is  celebrating 
its  ninth  anniversary  on  the  air — on  television  now, 
"still  with  the  original  cast."  The  "cast,"  of  course, 
is  that  same  family  group  which  turned  a  so-called 
parlor  game  into  a  successful  broadcast.  And  the 
cast  still  includes  Herb  Polesie,  who  was  on  that 
first  program  in  February,  1946.  (Someone  had 
heard  him  on  another  program  and  decided  he  had 
just  the  right  voice  and  the  (Continued  on  page  75) 


Twenty  Questions,  ABC-TV,  Tues.,  8:30  P.M.  EST,  is  sponsored  by  the  Florida  Citrus  Commission. 


44 


The  Van   Deventers  (that's    Bobby's   legal   name,   too)   like   to   spend   their  time   at  their   New  Jersey   home- 
Twintegspel  (Dutch   for  "a   game  of  twenty") — where    Florence  and    Fred   often   prove  they  can   still    "farm. 


the  FIRST  little  GODFREY 


"Warmth"  is  the  word  for  Janette 
Davis — her  songs,  her  heart  and  home 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


up 


Brother,  you  never  know.  The  gal  comes  out  to  the 
microphone  and  warms  up  a  torch  song  so  that, 
North,  icicles  melt  off  antennae  and,  down  in 
Miami,  radio  tubes  disintegrate.  Or  the  same  gal  does 
an  "up"  number  that  has  the  coaxial  cable  swinging  like 
a  jump  rope.  So  what  do  you  expect — that  Janette 
Davis  will  be  a  little  shy,  serious,  soft-spoken?  Never! 

But  she  is.  Sure,  she's  got  a  quick  laugh,  and  she 
can  be  pert  and  fun.   But,  basically,  she's  rather 
unfrivolous.  As  an  example,  take  Janette's  ambition  to 
own  a  house. 

Continued  k 


Janette  has  been  a  star  since  she  was  very  young,  but  being  discovered  by  Arthur  Godfrey  was  "the  greatest  thing  that  ever 
happened!"   Her  success  on  his  shows  led  to  the  house  of  her  own  she  had  always  wanted,  cars — and  a  dog  named  "Honey." 


JV 


J04 


^ 


1 


4 


-■..■.,<! 


,v  *.* 


V 


v 


IK 


I 


the  FIRST  little  GODFREY 


(Continued) 


"It  didn't  matter  whether  they  were  two-room 
bungalows — or  lovely  old  mansions — I'd  get  that  pos- 
sessive feeling  every  time  I'd  see  a  nice  house.  I 
couldn't  look  without  studying  every  detail." 

It  started  when  Janette  was  nineteen  and  already 
getting  along  quite  well,  career-wise. 

"People  would  ask  why  a  song  girl  wanted  a  house. 
Maybe  it's  a  good  question,  but  it  was  always  obvious 
to  me."  The  way  Jan  reasons,  she  could  have  spent 
her  money  on  minks,  frequent  changes  of  Paris  orig- 
inals, diamonds  and  other  knickknacks  that  feed  a 
woman's  vanity.  "But  I  like  space  and  quiet.  I  love 
flowers.  I  enjoy  privacy.  And  that's  why  I  wanted  a 
house." 

She  was  raised  in  a  house.  She  was  one  of  eight 
children — and  where  else  can  you  raise  a  family  that 
size?  Her  career  began  early.  She  was  fourteen  when 
she  won  an  amateur  contest  and  a  radio"  contract  in 
Memphis,  two  hundred  miles  from  her  home  in  Pine 


Bluff,  Arkansas.  At  the  age  of  sixteen,  she  studied 
voice  in  Quincy,  Illinois,  and  paid  her  tuition  by  sing- 
ing at  a  local  station.  At  eighteen,  she  returned  South 
to  start  her  own  show  at  a  Shreveport,  Louisiana, 
station.  She  became  a  star  there,  then  quit  .and  went 
to  powerful  WLW  in  Cincy.  She  became  a  star  there, 
and  quit  to  go  to  WBBM  in  Chicago.  She  became  a 
star  there,  and  quit  to  go  to  New  York.  Arthur  God- 
frey heard  her  on  a  sustaining  CBS  show  and  asked 
to  have  her  on  his  show.  Nine  years  ago  that  was.  .  .  . 

"I  don't  know  exactly  how  many  times  I  saved  up 
to  buy  a  house,"  Janette  says,  "and  then  something 
would  come  along  and  I'd  start  all  over  again." 

The  >gal  is  a  loyal  one  who  has  never  side-stepped 
the  problems — financial  or  otherwise — of  friends  and 
family.  She  has  helped  when  there  was  illness,  and 
she  has  helped  with. tuition  for  her  brothers  and  sis- 
ters. But,  a  little  over  three  years  ago,  her  piggy 
bank  was  loaded  again  ...  so  she  got  in  her  car,  drove 


Janette  loves  to  entertain,  and  Thomas  Judon  never  seems  to  mind  that  the  guest  list  keeps  growing  at  the  last  minute! 


-/ 


k 


Sister  Carol  is  always  close  to  Janette,  at  work  and  at  play,  preparing  for  dates — and  discussing  them  afterward. 


out  to  Long  Island,  and  decided  on  the  first  house 
she  saw. 

"My  business  manager  insisted  that  I  had  to  look 
around.  He  said  that  I  couldn't  buy  the  first  house 
I  saw,"  Janette  grins.  "I  explained  to  him  that  I'd 
been  window-shopping  for  years.  I  knew  what  I 
wanted." 

What  she  bought  was  a  rambling,  white-brick  ranch 
house.  It  was  on  a  lovely  landscaped  acre  of  land 
with  a  wooded  tract  to  one  side. 

"I  bought  the  house  in  August  of  1951,  and  I  set 
December  as  the  deadline  for  it  to  be  furnished." 

That  was  a  big  order  for  a  nine-room  house.  Jan, 
who  can  be  as  realistic  as  Mrs.  Murphy's  chowder, 
decided  someone  else  would  have  to  do  the  shopping 
— for  Jan  worked  a  five-day  week. 

"I  asked  a  friend  of  mine,  Dottie  Kendrick,  who 
had  been  an  interior  decorator  before  she  married. 
I  asked  her  to  furnish  the  house  and  she  said,  'I'm  sur- 
jrised,  Jan.  Why  would  you  ask  me?'  And  I  said, 
*I  like  your  taste.  I  like  the  way  you  furnished  your 
own  home.' " 

''Jan's  Acre"  has  been  furnished  irt  massive  but 
simple  modern,  with  emphasis  on  space  and  free 
movement.  And  Jan  insisted  that  everything  not  only 
look  functional  but  be  useful.  Jan  approved  every 
item,  down  to  ashtrays,  before  it  entered  the  house. 

"But  Dottie  gets  all  the   (Continued  on  page  82) 


Janette  Davis  sings  on  the  following  programs:  Arthur  Godfrey 
Time,  as  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  10  A.M.,  and  seen  over 
CBS-TV,  M-Th,  at  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship—  The 
Arthur  Godfrey  Digest,heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Fri.,  8:30  P.M., 
under  multiple  sponsorship — Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends, 
seen  over  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  at  8  P.M.,  as  sponsored  by  Pillsbury 
Mills,  Frigidaire.  and  The  Toni  Company.  (All  times  given  EST) 


Music   is  the   center   of   her   existence.     She   lives 
for  it,  and  it  has  made  a  living  dream  come  true. 


1 


49 


the  FIRST  little  GODFREY 


(Continued) 


"It  didn't  matter  whether  they  were  two-room 
bungalows — or  lovely  old  mansions — I'd  get  that  pos- 
sessive feeling  every  time  I'd  see  a  nice  house.  I 
couldn't  look  without  studying  every  detail." 

It  started  when  Janette  was  nineteen  and  already 
getting  along  quite  well,  career-wise. 

"People  would  ask  why  a  song  girl  wanted  a  house. 
Maybe  it's  a  good  question,  but  it  was  always  obvious 
to  me."  The  way  Jan  reasons,  she  could  have  spent 
her  money  on  minks,  frequent  changes  of  Paris  orig- 
inals, diamonds  and  other  knickknacks  that  feed  a 
woman's  vanity.  "But  I  like  space  and  quiet.  I  love 
flowers.  I  enjoy  privacy.  And  that's  why  I  wanted  a 
house." 

She  was  raised  in  a  house.  She  was  one  of  eight 
children — and  where  else  can  you  raise  a  family  that 
size?  Her  career  began  early.  She  was  fourteen  when 
she  won  an  amateur  contest  and  a  radio*  contract  in 
Memphis,  two  hundred  miles  from  her  home  in  Pine 


Bluff,  Arkansas.  At  the  age  of  sixteen,  she  studied 
voice  in  Quincy,  Illinois,  and  paid  her  tuition  by  sing- 
ing at  a  local  station.  At  eighteen,  she  returned  South 
to  start  her  own  show  at  a  Shreveport,  Louisiana, 
station.  She  became  a  star  there,  then  quit  .and  went 
to  powerful  WLW  in  Cincy.  She  became  a  star  there, 
and  quit  to  go  to  WBBM  in  Chicago.  She  became  a 
star  there,  and  quit  to  go  to  New  York.  Arthur  God- 
frey heard  her  on  a  sustaining  CBS  show  and  asked 
to  have  her  on  his  show.  Nine  years  ago  that  was 

"I  don't  know  exactly  how  many  times  I  saved  up 
to  buy  a  house,"  Janette  says,  "and  then  something 
would  come  along  and  I'd  start  all  over  again." 

The-gal  is  a  loyal  one  who  has  never  side-stepped 
the  problems— financial  or  otherwise — of  friends  and 
family.  She  has  helped  when  there  was  illness,  and 
she  has  helped  with  tuition  for  her  brothers  and  sis- 
ters. But,  a  little  over  three  years  ago,  her  piggy 
bank  was  loaded  again  ...  so  she  got  in  her  car,  drove 


Janette  loves  to  entertain,  and  Thomas  Judon  never  seems  to  mind  that  the  guest  list  keeps  growing  at  the  last  minute 


Sister  Carol  is  always  close  to  Janette,  at  work  and  at  play,  preparing  for  dates — and  discussing  them  afterward 


out  to  Long  Island,  and  decided  on  the  first  house 
she  saw. 

"My  business  manager  insisted  that  I  had  to  look 
around.  He  said  that  I  couldn't  buy  the  first  house 
I  saw,"  Janette  grins.  "I  explained  to  him  that  I'd 
been  window-shopping  for  years.  I  knew  what  I 
wanted." 

What  she  bought  was  a  rambling,  white-brick  ranch 
house.  It  was  on  a  lovely  landscaped  acre  of  land 
with  a  wooded  tract  to  one  side. 

"I  bought  the  house  in  August  of  1951,  and  I  set 
December  as  the  deadline  for  it  to  be  furnished." 

That  was  a  big  order  for  a  nine-room  house.  Jan, 
who  can  be  as  realistic  as  Mrs.  Murphy's  chowder, 
decided  someone  else  would  have  to.  do  the  shopping 
— for  Jan  worked  a  five-day  week. 

"I  asked  a  friend  of  mine,  Dottie  Kendrick,  who 
had  been  an  interior  decorator  before  she  married. 
I  asked  her  to  furnish  the  house  and  she  said,  'I'm  sur- 
trised,  Jan.  Why  would  you  ask  me?'  And  I  said, 
'I  like  your  taste.  I  like  the  way  you  furnished  your 
own  home.' " 

"Jan's  Acre"  has  been  furnished  in  massive  but 
simple  modern,  with  emphasis  on  space  and  free 
movement.  And  Jan  insisted  that  everything  not  only 
look  functional  but  be  useful.  Jan  approved  every 
item,  down  to  ashtrays,  before  it  entered  the  house. 

"But  Dottie  gets  all  the  (Continued  on  page  82) 


Janette  Davis  sings  on  the  following  programs:  Arthur  Godfrey 
Time,  as  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  at  10  A.M.,  and  seen  over 
CBS-TV,  M-Th,  at  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship— Me 
Arthur  Godfrey  Digest,  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Fri.,  8:30  P.M., 
under  multiple  sponsorship — Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends, 
seen  over  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  at  8  P.M.,  as  sponsored  by  PiHsbury 
Mills,  Frigidaire.  and  The  Toni  Company.  (All  times  given  EST  I 


Music  is  the  center  of  her  existence.    She  lives 
for  it,  and  it  has  made  a  living  dream  come  true. 


FUN 


Bill  Cullen  is 
a  star  with  many, 
many  points — 
most  of  them  the 
rib-tickling  kind 

By 

GREGORY 

MERWIN 


One  hobby  just  naturally 
grows  out  of  another  for 
Bill — fish,   for   example. 


.    ftjUi 


TO  BE  WITH 


Stop  The  Music:  Bill   really  likes  to  hear  Jill  Corey  and  Jack   Haskell 
sing — but  if  he  didn't  stop  'em,  how  could  anyone  win  those  big  prizes? 


The  neighbors  gathered,  and  one  said,  "That  Cullen  boy,  he'll 
never  grow  up  to  be  President." 
"Not  even  a  senator?" 
"No,  he  gets  to  the  point  too  fast." 

"Well,  he's  clever  and  good  with  his  hands.   He  might  be  a  surgeon." 
"Young  Bill?    For  every  appendix  he  took  out,  he'd  sew  in  a 
kitchen  sink,  a  small  convertible  and  a  portable  radio." 

"How  about  a  lawyer?"  (Continued  on  page  98) 


Name  That  Tune:  Vicki  Mills  warbles, 
Bill  is  host.  He's  a  panelist  on  I've  Got 
A   Secret,   emceed    by   Garry    Moore. 


Name  That  Tune,  CBS-TV,  Thurs.,  10:30  P.M.,  for  Carter  Products  and  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  Stop  The  Music,  CBS  Radio,  Tues.,  8 
P.M.,  for  Exquisite  Form  Bra,  Anson  Men's  Jewelry,  JB  Watch  Bands,  Whitehall.  Walk  A  Mile,  NBC  Radio,  Wed.,  8  P.M.,  for  Camel 
Cigarettes.  Place  The  Face,  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  8:30  P.M.,  for  The  Toni  Co.  I've  Got  A  Secret,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  9:30  P.M.,  for  Cavalier 
Cigarettes.  It  Happens  Every  Day,  Mutual,  8:55  A.M.,  for  the  Block  Drug  Co.  Roadshow,  NBC  Radio,  Sat.,  2  P.M.   (All  times  EST) 


Arlene  Francis  is  his   beauteous   partner  in   radio's 
slaphappiest  "news  column,"  It  Happens  Every  Day. 


Place  The  Face:  Bandleader  Xavier  Cugat  tries  to  iden- 
tify the  man  who  wouldn't  let  him  keep  a  dog  in  his  room! 


^■■J 


J 


J 


*S. 


I 


J 


H 


Hidden  resentments — and  a  hidden  past — threaten  the 

happiness  Vanessa  and  Paul  Raven  have  found  together 


R 


.appiness  for  Vanessa  Dale  is  spelled 
by  the  name  she  now  signs  to  her 
letters — Mrs.  Paul  Raven.   The  joy  of 
loving  and  being  loved,  the  day-by-day 
satisfactions  of  a  truly  sound  marriage — 
these  have  been  hers  since  the  day  of 
her  wedding,  and  Van  need  look  no 
farther  than  her  own  sister  Meg  to  realize 
what  a  rare  and  wonderful  thing  it  is  she 
shares  with  Paul.  .  .  .  But  a  shadow 
flickers  across  the  glow  of  this  almost- 
perfect  bliss.  The  mysterious  secret  of 
Paul's  past  remains  just  that,  and  Van  is 
puzzled  by  Paul's  strange  behavior 
whenever  a  question  arises  which  touches 
on  his  life  before  he  came  to  Barrowsville. 
Her  own  basic  honesty  tells  Van  that 
it  is  unnatural  for  Paul  to  feel  such  a 
strong  desire  to  blot  out  entirely — not  only 
his  first  marriage  to  Judith  Lodge — but 
his  entire  life  in  Marlton,  the  city  in 
which  he  and  Judith  had  lived.  No  matter 
how  painful  that  past  was  and  is,  Van 
feels,  Paul  and  I  could  face  it  together  if 
it  were  brought  out  into  the  open.  .  .  . 
However,  when  Paul  asked  Van  to  believe 
in  him  and  in  their  life  together,  she 
agreed  to  let  the  past  lie  buried.  She  does 
not  question  him  or  try  to  learn  any 
more  than  he  has  willingly  told  her:  That 
he  has  been  married  before;  that  the 
marriage  was  bitterly  unhappy;  and  that 
it  ended  in  divorce.  .  .  .  Van  believes 
she  has  decided  wisely  and  that  her 
marriage  will  continue  to  be  a  truly  happy 
one.  Paul  has  settled  down  to  being  a 
promising  young  lawyer  in  Barrowsville, 
and  Vanessa  helps  out  financially  with 
her  work  as  reporter  on  the  Barrowsville 
Times  while  he  is  establishing  himself 
in  his  new  profession.  .  .  .  But  Vanessa  has 
been  puzzled  by  a  recent  meeting  with 
her  friend  Ellie  Crown  and  Meg.  Both  of 
them  have  warned  Van  that  there  is 
much  she  doesn't  know  about  Paul.   Van 
believes  that  love  and  trust  are 
inseparable,  and  cannot  understand  why 


I.  As  Dr.  Brett  pronounces  them  man  and 
wife,  Vanessa  is  sure  the  love  she  shares 
with    Paul    can    overcome   his    bitter   past. 


2.  Paul  only  tells  Van  his  first  marriage  was  unhappy 
and  ended  in  divorce.  Van  doesn't  question  him 
further — but  her  sister   Meg   wants  all   the   answers. 


See  Next  Page 


5? 


\X2 


A 


If 


■« 


f 


H&M 


3.  Although  Van  feels  that  Paul's  strange  reactions  toward   his  former  life  are  unnatural,  she  is  puzzled  when 
Meg — resentful  of  her  sister's  happiness — insists  there  are  facts  about  Paul  which  must  be  brought  into  the  open. 

her  sister  Meg  insists  that  Van  must  try  to  learn  all 
the  facts  surrounding  Paul's  marriage  to  Judith.  In 
the  past,  when  Vanessa  has  tried  to  help  her  sister, 

.  Meg  has  accused  her  of  interfering.    Vanessa's  ears 

still  ring  with  Meg's  bitter  cry:  "You  live  your  life, 
Van,  and  I'll  live  mine!"  Why  is  it,  then,  she  wonders, 
that  Meg  now  wants  to  interfere  in  Van's  life?  Re- 
sentment and  jealousy — which  even  Meg  can  only 
half-admit  to  herself — drive  Meg  to  want  to  know  all 
that  lies  hidden  in  Paul's  past.  Actually,  Meg  is  right 
to  suspect  that  there  are  forces  unknown  to  Van  which 
can  cause  her  deep  hurt.  .  .  .  Van  is  unaware,  of  the 
vindictive  nature  of  Paul's  first  wife,  and  of  Judith's 
determination  that  Paul  shall  never  again  experience 
happiness — especially  that  happiness  he  might  find  in 
his  second  marriage.  Whatever  it  was  that  was  £o 
scarring  an  experience  for  Paul  has  similarly  seared 
the  character  and  memory  of  Judith.  Unable  to  accept 
failure  in  marriage — or  in  any  aspect  of  life — as  her 
own  responsibility,  Judith  blames  Paul  for  the  events 
which  led  to  their  divorce,  as  well  as  for  her  deep 
unhappiness  since  their  marriage  ended.  She  cannot 
bear  to  see  Paul  succeed  in  marriage  with  Vanessa, 
and  she  vows  she  will  destroy  their  love.  .  .  .  Warped 
by  her  bitterness,  Judith  has  come  to  Barrowsville  to 


Pictured  here,  as  seen  on  TV,  are: 

Vanessa  Raven Peggy  McCay 

Meg  Harper Jean  Mc Bride 

Paul  Raven Richard  Coogan 

Hal  Craig Steve  Gethers 

Judith  Raven Virginia  Robinson 

Mrs.  Althea  Raven Joanna  Roos 

Beanie  Harper Dennis  Parnell 

Mrs.  Sarah  Dale Jane  Rose 

Dr.  Brett Jack  Davis 

Gloria Gloria  Hamilton 

Love  Of  Life  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.  EST,  for  the 
Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.,  Boyle-Midway,  Inc.,  Chef  Boyardee. 


54 


LOVE  OF  LIFE 


4.  Vowing  to  destroy  Paul's  new  life,  his  first  wife 
Judith  demands  information  about  the  present 
whereabouts  of  her  child,  born  after  the  divorce. 


pursue  her  shameful  aim.  Although  Paul  tells  her 
she  cannot  hope  to  accomplish  anything  by  remaining 
here,  Judith  turns  a  deaf  ear  to  his  pleas  that  she 
return  to  Marlton.  Paul  has  told  her  that  Vanessa  is 
aware  of  all. the  facts  of  his  first  marriage  and  its  tragic 
ending — but  Judith  suspects  that  this  is  not  so.  .  .  .  How 
right  Judith  is!  Vanessa  knows  nothing  of  the  child 
that  was  born  to  Judith  shortly  after  her  divorce  from 
Paul.  At  that  time,  Judith  had  willingly  allowed  the 
child  to  be  taken  from  her.  Now,  however,  she  pro- 
fesses that  she  wants  the  child  returned  to  her  and 
presses  Paul  for  information  as  to  the  baby's  where- 
abouts. But  Paul  grimly  keeps  his  secret.  ...  So  far, 
Paul  has  been  successful  in  preventing  a  meeting 
between  Judith  and  Vanessa.  But  Judith,  determined 
to  learn  exactly  how  much  Van  really  knows  about 
the  past,  finds  herself  an  unwilling  ally:  Judith's  father 
is  influential  in  Marlton  and,  through  him,  Judith  con- 
trols the  successful  business  career  of  Paul's  brother 
Ben.  Ben  has  reluctantly  consented  to  help  Judith  in 
her  schemes.  The  half-hidden  resentment  Meg  holds 
against  Van  exists  between  Ben  and  Paul,  too.  There 
has  long  been  friction  between  them,  and  Ben  feels 
that  Paul's  sensational  divorce  has  scandalized  Marlton 
and  jeopardized  Ben's  own  standing  in  the  community. 
.  .  .  Meg  has  always  felt  that  Van  has  kept  her  from 
being  successful  in  her  own  life.  Meg  had  married 
money,  and  won  a  large  divorce  settlement — then  lost 
it,  when  a  company  she  owned  was  mismanaged.  After 
she  had  returned  to  Barrowsville — which  never  really 
accepted  this  proud,  unconventional  daughter  of  the 
Dale  family — the  townspeople  had  enjoyed  the  sight 
of  the  once- Wealthy  Meg  now  looking  for  a  job.  When 
no  one  else  would  hire  her,  Meg  had  gone  to  work  for 
gambler,  Hal  Craig.   For  a  time,  fortune  appeared  to 


(Continued) 


5.  Paul's  mother  Althea  hears  Judith  threaten  to  use 
her  influence  to  ruin  her  son  Ben  unless  they  agree  to 
help  her  learn  how  much  Paul  has  told  Van  of  his  past. 


See   Next   Page 


55 


3.  Although  Von  feels  that  Paul's  strange  reactions  toward   his  former  life  are  unnatural,  she  is  puzzled  when 
Meg— resentful  of  her  sister's  happiness— insists  there  are  facts  about  Paul  which  must  be  brought  into  the  open. 

her  sister  Meg  insists  that  Van  must  try  to  learn  all 
the  facts  surrounding  Paul's  marriage  to  Judith.  In 
the  past,  when  Vanessa  has  tried  to  help  her  sister, 

1 Meg  has  accused  her  of  interfering.    Vanessa's  ears 

still  ring  with  Meg's  bitter  cry:  "You  live  your  life, 
Van,  and  I'll  live  mine!"  Why  is  it,  then,  she  wonders, 
that  Meg  now  wants  to  interfere  in  Van's  life?  Re- 
sentment and  jealousy — which  even  Meg  can  only 
half-admit  to  herself — drive  Meg  to  want  to  know  all 
that  lies  hidden  in  Paul's  past.  Actually,  Meg  Is  right 
to  suspect  that  there  are  forces  unknown  to  Van  which 
can  cause  her  deep  hurt.  .  .  .  Van  is  unaware  of  the 
vindictive  nature  of  Paul's  first  wife,  and  of  Judith's 
determination  that  Paul  shall  never  again  experience 
happiness— especially  that  happiness  he  might  find  in 
his  second  marriage.  Whatever  it  was  that  was  so 
scarring  an  experience  for  Paul  has  similarly  seared 
the  character  and  memory  of  Judith.  Unable  to  accept 
failure  in  marriage — or  in  any  aspect  of  life — as  her 
own  responsibility,  Judith  blames  Paul  for  the  events 
which  led  to  their  divorce,  as  well  as  for  her  deep 
unhappiness  since  their  marriage  ended.  She  cannot 
bear  to  see  Paul  succeed  in  marriage  with  Vaness^j 
and  she  vows  she  will  destroy  their  love.  .  .  .  Warped 
by  her  bitterness,  Judith  has  come  to  Barrowsville  to 


Pictured  here,  us  seen  on  TV,  are: 

Vanessa  Raven Peggy  McCay 

Meg  Harper Jean  McBride 

Paul  Raven Richard  Coogan 

Hal  Craig Steve  Gethers 

Judith  Raven Virginia  Robinson 

Mrs.  Altbep  Raven Joanna  Roos 

Beanie  Harpct Dennis  Parnell 

Mrs.  Sarah  Dole Jane  Rose 

Dr.  Brett jock  Davig 

Gloria Gloria  Hamilton 

Love  01  Life  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.  EST,  for  the 
Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.,  Boyle-Midway,  Inc.,  Chef  Boyardee. 


4.  Vowing  to  destroy  Paul's  new  life,  his  first  wife 
Judith  demands  information  about  the  present 
whereabouts  of  her  child,  born  after  the  divorce. 


pursue  her  shameful  aim.  Although  Paul  tells  her 
she  cannot  hope  to  accomplish  anything  by  remaining 
here,  Judith  turns  a  deaf  ear  to  his  pleas  that  she 
return  to  Marlton.  Paul  has  told  her  that  Vanessa  is 
aware  of  all.the  facts  of  his  first  marriage  and  its  tragic 

ending— but  Judith  suspects  that  this  is  not  so How 

right  Judith  isl  Vanessa  knows  nothing  of  the  child 
that  was  born  to  Judith  shortly  after  her  divorce  from 
Paul.  At  that  time,  Judith  had  willingly  allowed  the 
child  to  be  taken  from  her.  Now,  however,  she  pro- 
fesses that  she  wants  the  child  returned  to  her  and 
presses  Paul  for  information  as  to  the  baby's  where- 
abouts. But  Paul  grimly  keeps  his  secret.  ...  So  far, 
Paul  has  been  successful  in  preventing  a  meeting 
between  Judith  and  Vanessa.  But  Judith,  determined 
to  learn  exactly  how  much  Van  really  knows  about 
the  past,  finds  herself  an  unwilling  ally:  Judith's  father 
is  influential  in  Marlton  and,  through  him,  Judith  con- 
trols the  successful  business  career  of  Paul's  brother 
Ben.  Ben  has  reluctantly  consented  to  help  Judith  In 
her  schemes.  The  half-hidden  resentment  Meg  holds 
against  Van  exists  between  Ben  and  Paul,  too.  There 
has  long  been  friction  between  them,  and  Ben  feels 
that  Paul's  sensational  divorce  has  scandalized  Marlton 
and  jeopardized  Ben's  own  standing  in  the  community. 
•  •  .  Meg  has  always  felt  that  Van  has  kept  her  from 
being  successful  in  her  own  life.  Meg  had  married 
money,  and  won  a  large  divorce  settlement — then  lost 
it,  when  a  company  she  owned  was  mismanaged.  After 
she  had  returned  to  Barrowsville — which  never  really 
accepted  this  proud,  unconventional  daughter  of  the 
Dale  family — the  townspeople  had  enjoyed  the  sight 
of  the  once-wealthy  Meg  now  looking  for  a  job.  When 
no  one  else  would  hire  her,  Meg  had  gone  to  work  for 
gambler,  Hal  Craig.   For  a  time,  fortune  appeared  to 


LOVE  OF  LIFE 

(Continued) 


5.  Paul's  mother  Althea  hears  Judith  threaten  to  use 
her  influence  to  ruin  her  son  Ben  unless  they  agree  to 
help  her  learn  how  much  Paul  has  told  Van  of  his  past. 


See    Next    Page   W 


6.  As  Gloria  entertains  their 
supper-club  patrons,  Hal  Craig 
tells  Meg  of  the  law  suit  Paul's 
client  has  brought  against  them. 


7.    Paul  has  told  Vanessa  little 
of  his  past,  but  he  assures  hi 
mother    and    Judith    that    Van 
knows  all — even  about  the  child. 


: 


56 


be  on  her  side  again,  and  she  seemed  to  have  found 
romance  as  well  with  the  attractive,  exciting  Craig. 
She  had  been  furious  when  it  turned  out  to  be  Vanessa 
and  her  newspaper  that  revealed  the  illegal  nature  of 
Hal's  business  operation  and  brought  about  its  ruin.  .  .  . 
Now  Hal  has  bought  a  club  in  Barrowsville  and  given 
it  to  Meg.  But  the  club  was  acquired  in  an  illegal  way 
and  the  original  owner  has  gone  to  Paul  Raven's  law 
firm  for  help.  Paul — over  his  protests  to  the  head  of 
the  firm — was  assigned  to  the  case,  and  the  legal  pro- 
ceedings are  sure  to  create  further  antagonisms  be- 
tween Van  and  Meg.  .  .  .  Meg's  jealousy  goes  back  as 
far  as  childhood  days,  and  it  is  deepened  as  Vanessa 
protects  Meg's  son  Beanie  and  offers  him  the  love 
which  Meg  seems  incapable  of  expressing  for  him. 
Young  Beanie  responds  to  this  love,  and  his  fondness 
for  Van,  in  preference  to  his  own  mother,  is  another 
cause  of  Meg's  resentment.  Impulsive,  angered  by  the 
turns  her  own  life  has  taken,  Meg  feels  that  Paul 
Raven's  secret  will  give  her  something  to  hold  Ove? 
Van  and  to  protect  herself  from  what  she  considers 
her  sister's  interference  in  her  life.  ...  If  Meg  succeeds 
in  ferreting  out  Paul's  secret,  how  might  she  use  this 
information  to  hurt  Vanessa?  Can  Van — now  so  happily 
unaware  of  Ben's  resentment  and  Judith's  revengeful- 
ness — find  the  added  courage  and  understanding  she 
may  need  when  she  learns  the  truth?  How  will 
Vanessa  react  when  she  is  at  last  confronted  with  all 
the  secrets  in  her  husband's  past?  When  that  momen- 
tous time  arrives,  will  she  and  Paul  weather  the  storm 
together  and  be  able  to  fulfill  their  true  love  of  life? 


8.  Mother  Sarah  Dale  well  understands  the  resentment  Meg  feels  toward  the  happy  marriage  of  Van  and  Paul 
and  her  jealousy  of  the  preference  Meg's  son  Beanie  seems  to  show  for  Van.  But,  as  Meg  looks  bitterly  on 
at  the  happy  group,  Mrs.  Dale  hopes  her  daughter  will  not  pry  too  deeply  for  secrets  to  use  against  Van. 


57 


His  Humor  Just  Happens 


George  Gobel  can't  help  being  fiinny,  not  with  his 
beloved  Alice  and  their  friends  so  ready  to  cheer  him  on! 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


THE   COLD-EYED   CHARACTERS   in   the 
fifty-dollar  sports  shirts,  those  self- 
appointed  connoisseurs  of  the  fast 
horse  and  the  fast  gag,  sat  stony-faced 
as  the  spotlight's  single  shaft  stabbed 
through  the  smoke-hazed  darkness  of  the 
raucous  Broadway  night  club  and 
pinned  to  the  stage  the  suffering  young 
entertainer.  In  its  relentless  glare,  George 
Gobel  squirmed  helplessly.    His  first 
joke  had  flopped. 

He  tried  again.   He  had  to  try  again. 
This  was  "the  big  time,"  in  a  place  which 
had  a  reputation  for  "discovering" 
young  comedians.  This  was  the  booking 
he  had  aimed  for  while  playing  hundreds 
of  club  dates,  conventions  and  sales 
meetings  across  the  Midwest.  With  his 
timing    all    off    and    his    voice    breaking 
badly,  he   croaked,   "Now  as   I  was 
saying  to  my  wife,  Alice  .  .  ." 
Blood-chilling  (Continued  on  page  90) 

The  George  Gobel  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sat., 
10  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  (on  alternate  weeks) 
by  Armour  and  Company  and  the  Pet  Milk  Co. 


He'd  "do  anything"  for 
his   children — and    does. 


Guess  who's  happiest — Leslie  or  George'- 


"The  common  mdn"  (as  this  most  uncommon  comic  calls  himself)  has  a  rare  family,  far  more  precious  to  him  than 
uranium:  George  Gobel  with  his  schoolday  sweetheart,  Alice,  and  their  children — Georgia,  Gregg,  and  baby  Leslie. 


As  he  says  to  his  wife  Alice — when  not  reading  the  papers 


Home's   a    happy    place,    with    children    in    it! 


59 


TIME  TO   LIVE 

I'm  Kathy  Byron  on  a 
jet-propelled  pinwheel— and  I'm 
loving  every  minute  of  it 


There  aren't  too  many  hours  for 

light    reading,    phoning    friends — or    meeting 

them! — but    I    love    getting    immersed 

in  my  scripts  and   keeping   up  with   Kathy. 


By  PAT  SULLY 


Iife  on  the  outer  rim  of  a  pin- 
wheel  has  no  more  spin  to  it 
B  than  the  career  of  an  actress  in 
a  television  serial  drama.  Believe 
me,  I  know  what  I'm  talking  about. 
I  can  prove  it  to  myself  in  every 
twinge  of  my  young  and  aching 
bones.  I  can  tell  it  by  the  joy  with 
which  I  collapse  into  bed,  and  by 
the  maniacal  urge  to  hurl  the  alarm 
clock  out  of  my  apartment  window 
at  five  o'clock  every  weekday  morn. 

This  may  seem  like  paradoxical 
language  from  a  girl  who  appears 
on  your  television  screen — as  Kathy 
Byron  in  A  Time  To  Live — for  some- 
thing less  than  75  minutes  a  week. 
But,  by  the  strange  alchemy  of  tele- 
vision, that  75  minutes  (or  less) 
represents  a  kind  of  condensation 
from  something  like  75  hours  of 
hard,  driving  preparation. 

From  Sunday  evening  through 
Friday,  I  embrace  a  kind  of  monas- 
tic existence  which  is  comprised  of 
nervous  energy,  mental  gymnastics 
and  muscular  effort.  On  Saturday,  I 
emerge  as  some  kind  of  butterfly 
into  a  strange  world — consisting  of 
normal  human  beings  and  their 
pursuits — and,  for  twenty -four  hours 
or  so,  I  mingle  with  them  like 
a  visitor  from  Mars  before  getting 
back  on  that  jet-propelled  pinwheel 
again.  (Continued  on  page  88) 

Pat  Sully's  Kathy  Byron  in  A  Time  To  Live, 
as  seen  over  NBC-TV,  M-F,  10:30  A.M.  EST. 


60 


fN^-v 


^"iL»^* 


Mflj 


tm&c 


m 


(  i 


Romantic 
adventure 


Young  Widder  Brown  cast  members  enjoy  visiting  in 
Ronald's  skytop  apartment.  Here's  Ellen  Brown  herself 
(Wendy  Drew,  center) — and  Mrs.  Summers  (Ethel  Wilson). 


Ronald  Long  enjoys  having  guests,  too,  and  loves  to  cook 
for  them.  He  may  not  be  as  wealthy  as  Michael  Forsyth,  in 
the  script,  but  he  has  many  treasures  of  which  he's  proud. 


By  GLADYS  HALL 


ON  THE  SIXTEENTH  FLOOR  of  a  Horatio 
Street  apartment  building,  in  down- 
town New  York,  lives  dark,  attractive, 
English-born  Ronald  Long,  the  Michael 
Forsyth  of  Young  Widder  Brown,  as  heard 
over  NBC  Radio. 

Mr.  Long,  like  Mr.  Forsyth,  is  a 
bachelor,  lives  alone  and  loves 
it.  Loves  New  York.  Loves  America — 
and  deeply,  as  you  shall  hear.  Loves  . 
height.    Loves  the  view,  from  his  west 
windows,  of  the  Hudson  River  ("I 
can  see  clear  across  to  the  Jersey  shore"). 
Loves  the  view,  from  his  south  windows, 
of  Wall  Street — and,  from  all  windows, 
the  sky,  the  migratory  birds,  the 
panoramic  clouds. 

Once  upon  a  time,  although  briefly, 
Mr.  Long  was  a  decorator  and  in  his  aerie, 
so  high  above  the  earth,  there  is  the 
taste  and  discrimination  of  the  decorator, 
the  collector,  the  man  who  appreciates 
luxury.    The  living-room  walls  (Mr.  Long 
painted  them  himself)  are  elephant  gray. 
The  wall-to-wall  carpeting  is  cream- 
colored  and  thick-piled.   The  chairs  and 
couches  are  done  in  cream  damask.    The 
draperies,  watermelon-red,  are  brilliant 
yet  subtle.    (Continued  on  page  79) 


Ronald  is  Michael  Forsyth  in  Young  JTidder  Brown,  on 
NBC  Radio,  M-F,  4:30  P.M.  EST,  for  Phillips'  Milk 
of  Magnesia,  Prom  Home  Permanent  and  White  Rain. 


dream  comes  true 


Bachelor  Ronald's  Siamese  cats,  Alcibiades  and  Teufelchen,  do  their  purry  best  to  keep  him  from  feeling  lonely. 


for  Ronald  Long,  as  Young  Widder  Brown's  devoted  Michael 


63 


» 


Romantic 
adventure 


Ronald  Long  enjoys  having  guests,  too,  and  loves  to  cook 
for  them.  He  may  not  be  as  wealthy  as  Michael  Forsyth,  in 
the  script,  but  he  has  many  treasures  of  which  he's  proud 


Young  Widder  Brown  cast  members  enjoy  visiting  in 
Ronald's  skytop  apartment.  Here's  Ellen  Brown  herself 
(Wendy  Drew,  center)— and  Mrs.  Summers  (Ethel  Wilson] 


By  GLADYS  HALL 


ON  the  sixteenth  ploor  of  a  Horatio 
Street  apartment  building,  in  down- 
town New  York,  lives  dark,  attractive, 
English-born  Ronald  Long,  the  Michael 
Forsyth  of  Young  Widder  Brown,  as  heard 
over  NBC  Radio. 

Mr.  Long,  like  Mr.  Forsyth,  is  a 
bachelor,  lives  alone  and  loves 
it.  Loves  New  York.  Loves  America— 
and  deeply,  as  you  shall  hear.  Loves  . 
height.    Loves  the  view,  from  his  west 
windows,  of  the  Hudson  River  ("I 
can  see  clear  across  to  the  Jersey  shore"). 
Loves  the  view,  from  his  south  windows, 
of  Wall  Street— and,  from  all  windows, 
the  sky,  the  migratory  birds,  the 
panoramic  clouds. 

Once  upon  a  time,  although  briefly, 
Mr.  Long  was  a  decorator  and  in  his  aerie, 
so  high  above  the  earth,  there  is  the 
taste  and  discrimination  of  the  decorator, 
the  collector,  the  man  who  appreciates 
luxury.   The  living-room  walls  (Mr.  Long 
painted  them  himself)  are  elephant  gray. 
The  wall-to-wall  carpeting  is  cream- 
colored  and  thick-piled.   The  chairs  and 
couches  are  done  in  cream  damask.   The 
draperies,  watermelon-red,  are  brilliant 
yet  subtle.    (Continued  on  page  79) 

Ronald  is  Michael  Forsyth  in  Young  Widder  Brown,  on 
NBC  Radio,  M-F,  4:30  P.M.  EST,  for  Phillips'  Milk 
of  Magnesia.  Prom  Home  Permanent  and  White  Rain. 


dream  comes  true 


Bachelor  Ronald's  Siamese  cats,  Alcibiades  and  Teufelchen,  do  their  purry  best  to  keep  him  from  feeling  lonely. 


for  Ronald  Long,  as  Young  Widder  Brown's  devoted  Michael 


who's  who  on 


GUNSMOKE 


r- 


Introducing  the  stars  and  show 
which  have  added  new  meaning 
and  excitement  to  Western  drama 


Each  Saturday,  the  familiar  strains  of  "Old  Trail" 
herald  another  chapter  of  Gunsmoke,  the  award- 
winning  program  which  deals  with  Western  life  in  the 
1880's  and  U.  S.  Marshal  Matt  Dillon's  struggle  to 
maintain  law  and  order  in  Dodge  City,  Kansas.  Gun- 
smoke  is  not  a  typical  Western,  full  of  shooting,  shout- 
ing and  fighting.  Instead,  it  combines  suspense  and 
excitement  with  realism  and  humanness  to  provide 
listeners  with  first-rate  radio  dramatic  entertainment. 


WILLIAM  CONRAD,  who  has  starred  as  Matt 
Dillon  since  Gunsmoke  was  first  aired,  was  born  in 
Louisville,  Kentucky.  When  he  was  7,  his  family 
moved  to  Los  Angeles,  where  Bill  received  his  sec- 
ondary education  before  going  on  to  Fullerton  Junior 
College  to  major  in  literature  and  dramatics.  Follow- 
ing his  graduation,  Bill  became  an  announcer-direc- 
tor-writer at  Station  KMPC,  Los  Angeles,  and  re- 
mained there  until  1942,  when  he  joined  the  Air  Force. 
Commissioned  an  officer  on  April  12,  1943,  Bill  made 
a  double-day  of  it  by  taking  lovely  June  Nelson  as 
his  bride.  Soon  after  his  discharge,  in  1945,  Bill  began 
concentrating  on  acting  in  movies  and  radio — always 
playing  the  villain,  in  such  film  classics  as  "The  Kill- 
ers," "Body  and  Soul,"  and  "Sorry,  Wrong  Number," 
and  in  radio,  on  every  top  network  series  originating 
in  Hollywood.  Consequently,  his  role  as  a  hero  in 
Gunsmoke  has  been  a  new  experience  for  Bill.  The 
show  has  also  helped  to  further  one  of  his  hobbies — 
cooking,  for  Gunsmoke's  researchers,  in  delving  into 
the  past,  have  unearthed  old  recipes  which  Bill  has  en- 
joyed testing.  Concerning  his  other  non-acting  inter- 
ests, Bill  says,  "Hobbies  are  my  hobby."  This  he  has 
proved  by  trying  them  all — from  stamp  collecting  to 
taxidermy.  But,  once  he  "masters"  a  hobby,  he  loses 
interest  in  it,  as  has  happened  with  photography:  Bill 
has  $3000  worth  of  camera  equipment  and  never  even 
takes  a  picture!  Befitting  his  role  in  Gunsmoke,  Bill 
has  an  extensive  collection  of  early  Western  firearms. 
His  most  prized  gun  is  one  which  supposedly  belonged 
to  one  of  the  West's  most  notorious  figures,  Wyatt 
Earp.  Another  of  Bill's  outstanding  traits  is  his  love 
for  informal  clothes  (he  insists  they  help  him  to  relax 
while  working).  His  favorite  outfit  combines  dun- 
garees, T-shirt,  sneakers  and  an  old  leather  jacket. 
"My  wife  used  to  call  me  a  poor  man's  clothes  horse," 
says  Bill.  "But  one  day,  I  took  her  out  to  Santa  Anita 
and  she  apologized — to  the  horses."  And,  when  he  and 
June  invite  friends  for  dinner,  Bill  always  adds — 
quite  unnecessarily,  it  seems — "We're  not  dressing." 


'y&*m. 


-'  A  "J sTv      i  ^ 


^e^ 


ft 

m 

X 


'*** 


t 


Gunsmoke  is  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Saturday  at  12:30  P.M.  and  8  P.M.  (both  EST)  as  sponsored  by  L  &  M  Filter  Cigarettes. 


PARLEY  BAER  (Chester  Proud- 
foot)  launched  his  show-business 
career  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  when 
he  was  11  years  old  and  got  a  sum- 
mer job  at  the  amusement  pier  as 
"key  boy" — opening  lockers  for  peo- 
ple spending  the  day  swimming.  Four 
years  later  he  became  chief  cashier 
of  the  pier  and  made  his  acting  debut 
at  the  city's  Playhouse.  Parley  also 
made  a  point  of  working  with  the 
circus  whenever  it  came  to  town — 
and,  after  leaving  the  University  of 
Utah,  he  traveled  with  a  circus  until 
World  War  II,  when  he  enlisted  and 
served  for  four  years.  Upon  his  dis- 
charge in  1946,  Parley  married  Ern- 
estine Clarke,  a  circus  performer  and 
aerialist.  They  now  have  a  daughter, 
Kathleen,  2.  .  .  .  Parley  got  his  radio 
start  at  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  before 
becoming     tops     in     Los     Angeles. 


GEORGIA  ELLIS,  in  her  role  as 
Kitty,  is  right  at  home,  for  she  has 
played  in  Westerns — in  movies  and 
radio — for  more  than  a  decade.  Al- 
though she  had  always  wanted  to  be 
.  an  actress,  Georgia  used  music  as  the 
stepping  stone  to  her  goal.  Her  fath- 
er, a  cellist  and  music  professor,  and 
her  mother,  an  opera  singer,  wanted 
her  to  become  a  music  teacher,  but 
Georgia  couldn't  be  swayed.  After 
attending  UCLA — during  which  time 
she  won  her  first  paying  job  as  vo- 
calist with  Walter  Schuman's  college 
band — Georgia  forsook  her  studies 
to  work  at  the  Pasadena  Playhouse. 
Her  first  acting  role  came  in  1942, 
when  she  appeared  in  a  "Hopalong^ 
Cassidy"  movie.  Georgia  is  married' 
to  radio  script-writer  Antony  Ellis. 
She  has  a  son,  Jonathan,  6,  enjoys 
painting,   sketching   and   decorating. 


HOWARD  McNEAR  has  been 
in  love  with  radio  since  1933,  when 
he  first  "aired"  himself  as  an  actor. 
Prior  to  his  radio  debut,  Howard  had 
specialized  in  stage  roles.  At  15,  he 
enrolled  at  the  Marta  Oatman  School 
of  Theater,  then  he  joined  a  San 
Diego  stock  company.  For  the  next 
12  years,  he  toured  up  and  down  the 
Pacific  Coast.  As  a  fitting  tribute 
to  his  20th  year  in  radio  Howard,  in 
1953,  won  an  award  as  "best  sup- 
porting actor."  Married  to  the  former 
Helen  Spatz,  Howard  has  one  son, 
Christopher.  In  his  role  as  Doc  in 
Gunsmoke,  Howard  says,  "We  don't 
have  the  facilities  of  modern  medi- 
cine and  science  .  .  .  and  sometimes, 
I  guess,  we  make  mistakes.  But  I 
think  we've  got  a  pretty  good  bat- 
ting average."  As  for  Howard,  he  al- 
ways bats  one  thousand  as  an  actor. 


65 


Farewell  to  BACHELORHOOD 


Wally  Cox  finds  that  marriage  is  the 
best  cure  for  what's  wrong  with  any 
man's  world,  even  that  of  Mr.  Peepers 

By  ED  MEYERSON 

To  the  devoted  millions  who  watch  Mr.  Peepers 
every  Sunday  night,  Jefferson  City  is  as  real 
as  their  own  home  town,  and  the  gentle  little 
science  teacher  of  Jefferson  Junior  High  is  prac- 
tically a  member  of  the  family.   Last  May  twenty- 
third,  when  he  married  Nancy  Remington,  the 
school  nurse,  some  thirty  million  "close  friends  and 
relatives"  attended  the  formal  church  wedding 
over  sixty-three  stations  of  NBC-TV.    The  cere- 
mony was  so  true-to-life  that  many  in  the  audi- 
ence cried.   And  many  sent  letters,  telegrams,  and 
presents — all  addressed  to  "Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robin- 
son J.  Peepers." 

But,  two  weeks  later,  announcement  of  another 
wedding  appeared  in  the  newspapers.    It  came 
as  a  shock,  reminding  the  nation  that  Mr.  Peepers 
exists  only  on  TV.  Jefferson  City  can't  be  found 
on  any  map;   the  gentle  little  science  teacher  is 
actually  a  TV  star  named  Wally  Cox,  and  Mr. 
Cox  obviously  has  a  life  very  much  his  own.   On 
June  7,  1954,  he  married  Marilyn  Gennaro,  Broad- 
way musical-comedy  dancer,  in  a  ceremony  as 


Mr.  and   Mrs.   Peepers  on  TV:   Patricia    Benoit  as   Nancy 
(right),  Seorgiann  Johnson  and  Tony  Randall  as  the  Weskits. 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cox  at  home:  Wally  and  the  former  Marilyn  Gennaro  (opposite  page).  They  were  wed  on 
the  Maryland  estate  of  Donald  Seawell  (right,  below) — and  Wally  wasn't  a  bit  shy  kissing  his  bride! 


See   \vxt   Page 


Farewell  to  BACHELORHOOD 


( Continued ) 


He's  still  Mr.  Peepers  to  Mrs.  Surney  (Marion  Lome) 
and  Nancy  (Patricia  Benoit)  but  Wally  feels  like  quite  a 
different  man  as  he  keeps  his  very  own  home  fires  burning! 


private  as  his  make-believe  wedding  had  been  public. 

Curiosity  about  the  bride  was  matched  by  a  sudden 
concern  for  the  groom.    For  years,  fans  had  accepted 
the  legend  that  Mr.  Peepers  is  just  Mr.  Cox  playing 
himself  on  a  TV  soundstage.  On  camera  and  off,  the  two 
are  supposed  to  be  exactly  alike — using  the  same 
inhibited  mannerisms,  speaking  the  same  pedantic  prose, 
sharing  the  same  other-worldly  enthusiasm  for  nat- 
ural science.    And  if  people  feel  as  protective  toward 
the  one  as  the  other,  it's  because — at  first  blush, 
anyway — -"Wally  seems  just  as  mild,  helpless,  and  book- 
ishly  innocent  as  his  TV  characterization. 

At  least,  when  Mr.  Peepers  himself  got  married,  he 
chose  a  sympathetic  school  nurse,  as  kind  and  guileless 
as  he.  And,  despite  the  fact  that  the  groom  looked 
heartbreakingly  young — as  though  attending  his  con- 
firmation instead  of  his  wedding — the  bride  appeared 
wise  in  the  eternal  way  of  woman,  and  understanding 
enough  for  both  of  them. 

But  when  Mr.  Cox  married!  Well,  either  the  legend 
is  wrong — and  Peepers  and  Cox  are  as  different  as 
Jekyll  and  Hyde — or  Wally  is  in  for  some  surprises. 
A  thorough  knowledge  of  botany  is  not  necessarily  the 
best  training  for  marriage,  and  the  middle  of  Man- 
hattan is  not  the  best  spot  for  setting  up  housekeeping. 
Wally  might  be  an  authority  on  "the  psychology 
of  the  .water  shrew,"  but  what  did  he  know  about 
women?  .  .  . 

Anyone,  watching  Mr.  Peepers  teach  his  class  at 
Jefferson  Junior  High,  can  imagine  what  he  was  like 
when  he  himself  was  one  of  the  students.    There's 
one  in  every  school.    He's  the  little  fellow  with  the 
stringy  sideburns  and  the  owl-like  spectacles,  who 
was  never  built  for  outdoor  sports.   Invariably,  he  car- 
ries a  book  under  his  arm  and,  when  he  sees  the 
other  kids  at  play,  he  smiles.   A  friendly  smile,  but  it 
comes  out  wistful — kind  of  a  hopeful  grin  that  passes 
unnoticed.  And  so  he  goes  loping  off,  perhaps  for  a  long 
walk  in  the  woods  where  he  can  study  rocks,  watch 
the  birds,  hunt  wild  flowers. 

Wallace  Maynard  Cox's  boyhood  could  not  have  been 
much  different.    He  was  born  in  Detroit,  Michigan, 
on  December  6,  1924,  but  his  parents  divorced  when 
he  was  still  quite  young.   Brought  up  by  his  mother, 
a  free-lance  writer  whose  assignments  kept  her  on  the 
move,  Wally  and  his  sister  traveled  with  her  about 
the  country,  tn  the  course  of  twelve  years,  he  attended 
nine  different  schools  before  they  finally  settled  in 
New  York  City.    And,  like  Peepers,  he  also  escaped 
from  the  rough-and-tumble  world  of  the  school  yard 
into  a  calmer  world  of  books  and  nature  study.    Un- 
like Peepers,  however,  Wally  never  kept  mice  or 
butterflies. 

"Pinning  wings  is  a  pastime  I  would  not  indulge  in," 
he  insists. 

Unlike  Peepers,  who  always  intended  to  be  a  teacher 
when  he  grew  up,  Wally  was  going  to  be  a  writer. 
It  was  in  his  blood.   His  grandfather,  Francis  B.  Atkin- 
son, had  contributed  articles  to  Compton's  Encyclo- 
pedia under  the  awe-inspiring  pen  name  of  A.  Hallam 
Hawksworth — which  perhaps   accounts  for  Wally's  * 
current  hobby  of  collecting  odd  names.   (Latest  gems: 
Desire  Van  Huydunk,  Arthur  Imbembo,  Marko  Toich, 
Tui  St.  George  Tucker.)    His  grandmother,  Elinor  At- 
kinson, had  written  Greyfriars  (Continued  on  page  85) 

Wally   Cox   is  Mr.  Peepers,  on  NBC-TV,  three  Sundays  out  of 
four,  7:30  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  the  Reynolds  Metals  Company. 


Presented  by  the 
National  Biscuit  Company 

EVERY  SUNDAY 
over  the 
MUTUAL  NETWORK 


The  most  exciting  new  action  show  in  radio. 
Adventures  in  the  old  West  with  Rin  Tin  Tin— 
the  most  famous  canine  hero  of  them  all— 
and  his  pal,  Rusty.  Wards  of  a  western  cavalry 
company,  Rin  Tin  Tin  and  Rusty  fight 
Indians,  cattle  rustlers,  and  bank  robbers,  run 
the  gamut  of  action  and  adventure. 


Tune  in  Sundays  at  5:00  PM  EST  on  your 
Mutual  station. 


OTHER  THRILLING  MUTUAL  SHOWS  on  Sunday 

4:30*  PM    The  Shadow 

5:30*  PM    True  Detective  Mysteries 

6:00*  PM    Nick  Carter 

*All  times  given  are  Eastern  Standard.  For  exact  time 
in  your  locality,  check  your  newspaper  listings. 


2s/L\xt\jL3il  Broadcasting  System 


The  Network  for  All  America 


' 


69 


I 


nside 
Radio 


All  Times  Listed  Are 
Eastern  Standard  Time. 


70 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


10:45 


11:00 
11:15 
11:30 
11:45 


World  News 
Roundup 


Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Bob  Smith 

Show 


Break  The  Bank 


Strike  It  Rich 

Phrase  That  Pays 
Second  Chance 


Local  Program 
Gabriel  Heatterz 
8:55  It  Happens 
Every  Day1 


Robert  Hurleigh 

Wifesaver 

Johnny  Olsen  Show 


Cecil  Brown 


Kenny  Baker  Show 
News 

10:35  Madeleine  Car- 
roll's Storytime 


Florida  Calling  With 

Tom  Moore 
11:25  News,  Holland 

Engle 
Queen  For  A  Day 


John  MacVane 
8:55  Betty  Crocker' 


Breakfast  Club 


My  True  Story 


10:25  Whispering 

Streets 
When  A  Girl  Marries 


Modern  Romances 

Ever  Since  Eve 

Your  Neighbor's 

Voice 
Three-City  Byline 


News  Of  America 


Arthur  Godfrey  Show 


- 


Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 


Make  Up  Your  Mind 
Rosemary 


Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 
12:15 

12:30 
12:45 

Break  The  Bank 

Capitol  Commentary 
with  Les  Higgie 

12:20  Down  At 
Holmsey's 

Valentino 
Frank  Farrell 

Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Aunt  Jenny 

Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

Pauline  Frederick 
Reporting 

Cedric  Foster,  News 
Luncheon  At  Sardi's 
Ted  Steele  Show 

Paul  Harvey,  News 
Ted  Malone 

Road  Of  Life 
Ma  Perkins 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 
2:15 

2:30 
2:45 

Luncheon  With  Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 

Hayes 
Wonderful  City 

Betty  Crocker* 
2:35  Martin  Block 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 
Perry  Mason 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 
The  Brighter  Day 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

News,  Ben  Grauer 
3:05  Women  InLove 
Pepper  Young 
Right  To  Happiness 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 
Modern  Brides3 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Hilltop  House 
House  Party 

Mike  &  Buff's 

Mailbag 
3:55  It  Happens 

Every  Day 

4:00 

4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Backstage  Wife 

Stella  Dallas 
Young  Widder  Brown 
Woman  In  My  House 

Tony  Martin's  Quiz 
Treasure  Island 

i  M-W-F 
2T-Th 
3Mon.  only 

Latin  Quarter 

Matinee 
4:25  Betty  Crocker* 
Treasury  Bandstand 

*T,  Th-Sheila  Graham 

News 

Treasury  Bandstand 
4:55  News 

Monday 


Evening  Programs 


5:00 
5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

Just  Plain  Bill 
Lorenzo  Jones 
Mr.  Jolly's 
Hotel  For  Pets 
It  Pays  To  Be 
Married 

Bobby  Benson 

Wild  Bill  Hickok 

5:55  News,  Cecil 
Brown 

Musical  Express 
Fred  Beck 
Gloria  Parker 

Vincent  Lopez 

News 

Curt  Massey  Time 
5:55  This  I  Believe 

6:00 
6:15 

6:30 
6:45 

Sports  Daily  with 
Mel  Allen,  Russ 
Hodges 

Three  Star  Extra 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 

Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 

Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
The  Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 

Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

Best  Of  All 

Top  Secret  Files 
Broadway  Cop 

Henry  J.  Taylor 
American  Music  Hall 
Voice  Of  Firestone 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 

Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Telephone  Hour 
Band  Of  America 

News,  Bill  Henry 
9:05  Edward  Arnold 
Mutual  Newsreel 
Reporters'    Roundup 

Sammy  Kaye 

9:25  News 

Music  By  Camarata 

Perry  Como 

Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy 

Music  Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 

Fibber  McGee  And 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 

Two  In  The  Balcony 

News 

Manhattan 
Crossroads 

Distinguished 
Artists 

Headline  Edition 

Richard  Rendell, 

News 
Martha  Lou  Harp 

Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 

Tuesday 

1    Evening  Pi 

rograms 

ABC 

Charles  Antell  Show 
Fred  Beck 
Gloria  Parker 

Vincent  Lopez 

CBS 

News 

Curt  Massey  Time 
5:55  This  1  Believe 

5:1 

5:1 

5:3 

5:4 

0 
5 

0 

5 

NBC 

Just  Plain  Bill 
Lorenzo  Jones 
Mr.  Jolly's 

Hotel  For  Pets 
It  Pays  To  Be 

Married 

MBS 

Sgt.  Preston 

Of  Yukon 

Bobby  Benson 

5:55  News,  Cecil 
Brown 

6:00 
6:15 

6:30 
8:45 

Sports  Daily  with 
Mel  Allen,  Russ 
Hodges 

Three  Star  Extra 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 

Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton   Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 

Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Silver  Eagle 
7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 

Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 

Treasury  Agent 

John  Steele, 
Adventurer 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

Stop  The  Music 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Lux  Radio  Theater 
Lux  Theater  (con.) 

News,  Bill  Henry 
9:05  Edward  Arnold 
Mutual  Newsreel 
Search  That  Never 
Ends 

Sammy  Kaye 

9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 

News 
9:55  News 

Stop  The  Music 

(con.) 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy 

Music  Hall 
9:55  News 

10:1 

10:1 
10:: 

)0 
5 
10 

Fibber  McGee  And 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 

Listen  To 
Washington 

News 

Manhattan 
Crossroads 

Headline  Edition 

Richard  Rendell, 

News 
Take  Thirty 

Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 

Thursday 


NBC 


Evening  Programs 

MBS  ABC 


CBS 


5:00 

Just  Plain  Bill 

Sgt.  Preston  Of 

Charles  Antell  Show 

News 

5:15 

Lorenzo  Jones 

Yukon 

Fred  Beck 

5:30 

Mr.  Jolly's 
Hotel  For  Pets 

Bobby  Benson 

Gloria  Parker 

5:45 

It  Pays  To  Be 

5:55  News,  Cecil 

Vincent  Lopez 

Curt  Massey  Time 

Married 

Brown 

5:55  This  1  Believe 

6:00 

* 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Jackson  &  The  News 

6:15 

Sports  Daily  with 
Mel  Allen,  Russ 

East  Of  Athens 

6:30 

Hodges 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

George  Hicks,  News 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex  Dreier, 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Vandercook,  News 

Tennessee  Ernie 

7:15 

Man  On  The  Go 

Dinner  Date 

Quincy  Howe 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel  Heatter 

Silver  Eagle 

Choraliers 

7:45 

One  Man's  Family 

Eddie  Fisher 

7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 

Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 

Roy  Rogers 

Official  Detective 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

Suspense 

8:15 

8:25  Doug  Edwards, 
News 

8:30 

Bob  Hope  Show 

Crime  Fighters 

Nightwatch 

8:45 

9:00 

News 

9:05  Spend  A  Million 

News,  Bill  Henry 
9:05  Edward  Arnold 

Serenade  Room 

Rosemary  Clooney 

9:15 

Mutual  Newsreel 

Bing  Crosby 

9:30 

State  Of  The  Nation 

Ralph  Flanagan 

Amos  'n*  Andy 

9:45 

Show 

Music  Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00 

Fibber  McGee  And 
Molly 

News 

Headline  Edition 

Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 

10:15 

Great  Gildersleeve 

Manhattan 
Crossroads 

Richard  Rendell, 
News 

10:30 

Jane  Pickens  Show 

Musical  Caravan 

Front  And  Center 

ig  Programs 

Musical  Express 
Fred  Beck 
Gloria  Parker 

Vincent  Lopez 

News 

Curt  Massey  Time 
5:55  This  I  Believe 

Wednesday 

Evenin 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

Just  Plain  Bill 
Lorenzo  Jones 
Mr.  Jolly's 

Hotel  For  Pets 
It  Pays  To  Be 

Married 

Bobby  I 

Wild  Bi 

5:55  N( 
Brow 

Senson 

II  Hickok 

;ws,  Cecil 
n 

6:00 
6:15 

6:30 
6:45 

Sports  Daily  with 
Mel  Allen,  Russ 
Hodges 

Three  Star  Extra 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 

Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 

Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 

Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 

8:30 
8:45 

Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 

Walk  A  Mile 

Squad  Room 
Sentenced 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

F.B.I.  In  Peace  And 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards, 

News 
21st  Precinct 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

You  Bet  Your  Life 
Big  Story 

News,  Bill  Henry 
9:05  Edward  Arnold 
Mutual  Newsreel 
Family  Theater 

Sammy  Kaye 

Brown  Derby 
Record  Room 

Perry  Como 

Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy 

Music  Hall 
9:55  News 

10:0 
10:1 
10:3 

0 
5 
0 

Fibber  McGee  And 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 

Keys  To  The  Capital 

News 

Manhat 

Cros 

Soundi 

tan 

sroads 
ig  Board 

Headline  Edition 

Richard  Rendell, 

News 
Dunnigans  & 

Friends 

Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 

Friday 


Evening  Programs 


5:00 

Just  Plain  Bill 

Bobby  Benson 

Musical  Express 

News 

5:15 

Lorenzo  Jones 

Fred  Beck 

5:30 

Mr.  Jolly's 
Hotel  For  Pets 

Wild  Bill  Hickok 

Gloria  Parker 

5:45 

It  Pays  To  Be 

5:55  News,  Cecil 

Vincent  Lopez 

Curt  Massey  Time 

Married 

Brown 

5:55  This  1  Believe 

6:00 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Jackson  &  The  News 

6:15 

Sports  Daily  with 
Mel  Allen,  Russ 

East  Of  Athens 

6:30 

Hodges 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

George  Hicks,  News 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex  Dreier, 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Vandercook,  News 

Tennessee  Ernie 

7:15 

Man  On  The  Go 

Dinner  Date 

Quincy  Howe 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel  Heatter 

Lone  Ranger 

Choraliers 

7:45 

One  Man's  Family 

In  The  Mood 

7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 

Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 

Dinah  Shore 

Counter-Spy 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

Crime  Photographer 

8:15 

Frank  Sinatra 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 

8:30 

Friday  With 

Take  A  Number 

Godfrey  Digest 

8:45 

Garroway 

9:00 

Garroway  (con.) 

News,  Bill  Henry 
9:05  Edward  Arnold 

Sammy  Kaye 

Perry  Como 

9:15 

Mutual  Newsreel 

Bing  Crosby 

9:30 

Have  A  Heart 

The  World  We 

Amos  'n'  Andy 

9:45 

Live  In 
9:55  Sport  Report 

Music   Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00 

Fights,  Cavalcade 

News 

Mr.  Keen.  Tracer  Of 

10:15 

Of  Sports 

Richard  Rendell, 
News 

Lost  Persons 

10:30 

Sports  Highlights 

Fall  Out 

Indoors  Unlimited. 

See    Next   Page- 


71 


72 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30  Egbert  &  Ummly 

8:45 

Local  Programs 

Doug  Browning 
Show 

News 

9:00  Egbert  &  Ummly 
9:15       (con.) 
9:30  Serenade  To 
9:45  j     Romance 

News 

No  School  Today 

i 

News  Of  America 
Garden  Gate 

10:00  Serenade  (con.) 

10:15 

10:30  Roadshow 

10:45 

Travel  Guide 
Kite  Flight 

No  School  Today 

(con.) 
Space  Patrol 

10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

11:00  Roadshow  (con.) 

11:15 

11:30  Roadshow  (con.) 

11:45 

Kite  Flight  (con.) 

News 

11:05  Platterbrains 
All  League  Club 
House 

Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show 

Afternoon   Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

National  Farm  And 
Home  Hour 

Roadshow 

Farm  Quiz 

New  England  Barn 
Dance 

News 

12:05  101  Ranch 

Boys 
American  Farmer 

Noon  News 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Fifth  Army  Band 
Ruby  Mercer  Show 

News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

Vincent  Lopez 

1:55  News 

City  Hospital 

News 

1:35  Peter  Lind 

Hayes  Show 
1:55  Galen  Drake 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Metropolitan  Opera 

3:00  [Roadshow  (con.) 

3:15 
3:30 

3:45  j 

Metropolitan  Opera 
(con.) 

News 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Metropolitan  Opera 
(con.) 

News 
4:55  News 

5:00 

5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Teenagers  Unlimited 

Brickhouse,  Sports 
5:55  News 

News 

5:05  Paulena  Carter 
Pop  Concert 
This  Week  In 
Washington 
As  We  See  It 

Saturday  At  The 
Chase 

Evening  Programs 

6:00  News  Musical  Almanac 


6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 


7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


H.  V.  Kaltenborn 
Thy  Kingdom  Come 


NBC  Travel  Bureau 
7:05  Heart  Of  The 
News 


College  Quiz  Bowl 


Conversation 
Boston  Symphony 


9:00  Boston  Symphony 

9:15       (con.) 

9:30  Grand  Ole  Opry 

9:45 


Men's  Corner 
6:55  Cecil  Brown 


Sam  Levine,  Kegler 


Report   From 

Washington 

Keep  Healthy 

Globe  Trotter 


True  Or  False 

Magic  Valley 
Jamboree 


Hawaii  Calls 
Lombardo  Land 


10:00  Dude  Ranch 
10:15       Jamboree 

10:30  Pee  Wee  King  Show 


Chicago  Theater  Of 
The  Air 


News 

6:05   Pan-American 

Union 
Sports,  Bob  Finnegan 
Bob  Edge,  Sports 

Afield 


News 

7:05  Showtime 

Review 
At  Ease 

Dinner  At  The  Green 
Room 


Dance  Party 


Dance  Party  (con.) 


News 

10:05  Ozark  Jubilee 


Ambassador  Hotel 


News 

Sports  Roundup 
Capitol  Cloakroom 


News 

7:05  Make  Way  For 
Youth 


Gangbusters 


Gunsmoke 
Juke  Box  Jury 


Two  For  The  Money 
Country  Style 


News,   Schorr 

10:05  Country  Style 
(con.) 

Louisville  Philhar- 
monic Orchestra 


Sunday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning  Programs 


8:30 

Light  And  Life  Hour 

Renfro  Valley 

8:45 

8:55  Galen  Drake 

9:00 

World  News  Roundup 

Wings  Of  Healing 

Milton  Cross  Album 

The  Music  Room 

9:15 

Carnival  Of  Books 

World  News  Roundup 

9:30 

Faith  In  Action 

Back  To  God 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 

Organ  Music 

9:45 

Art  Of  Living 

10:00 

National  Radio 
Pulpit 

Radio  Bible  Class 

News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Church  Of  The  Air 

10:15 

Israel 

10:30 

Headlines  In 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 

News 

Church  Of  The  Air 

10:45 

Perspective 

10:35  College  Choirs 

(con.) 

11:00 

News 

Frank  And  Ernest 

Sunday  Melodies 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 

11:05  Stars  From 

11:05  Marines  On 

Choir 

11:15 

Paris 

John  T.  Flynn 

Review 

11:30 

Pauline  Frederick 

Northwestern 

News 

At  UN 

Reviewing  Stand 

11:35  Christian  In 

11:35  Invitation  To 

11:45 

UN  Assignment 

Action 

Learning 

I 


Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 
12:15 
12:30 

12:45 


1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 


2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 


3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 


4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 


5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 


Music  For 

Relaxation 
The  Eternal  Light 


Youth  Wants  To 

Know 
Univ.  Of  Chicago 

Round  Table 


The  Catholic  Hour 
Anthology 


Weekend 
Weekend  (con.) 


Weekend  (con.) 
Weekend  (con.) 


Inheritance 
Dennis  Day  Show 


Studio  Concerts 

News,  Bill 

Cunningham 
Tune  Time 


Global  Frontiers 
Lutheran  Hour 


Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Tune  Time 
Merry  Mailman 


Wonderful  City 

Tune  Time 
CBC  Symphony 


CBC  Symphony  (con. 
The  Shadow 


Adventures  Of  Rin 

Tin  Tin 
True  Detective 

Mysteries 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 


Pan-American   Union 
The  World  Tomorrow 


Herald  Of  Truth 

News 

1:35    Pilgrimage 


Or.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 


Sammy  Kaye 
Hour  Of  Decision 


Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 


News,  LeSueur 

Howard  K.  Smith, 

World  Affairs 
News  Report 


Man's  Right  To 
Knowledge 

News 

1:35  Syncopation 
Piece 


Symphonette 

New  York  Philhar- 
monic-Symphony 


New  York  Philhar- 
monic-Symphony 
(con.) 


News,  LeSueur 
4:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 


Youth  On  The  March  News 

(5:05  On  A  Sunday 
Greatest  Story  Afternoon  (con.) 

Ever  Told 

[5:55  News,  LeSueur 


Evening  Programs 


6:00 

6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

American  Forum 
Travels  In  Tempo 

Nick  Carter 

Bob  Considine 
Wismer,  Sports 

Monday  Morning 

Headlines 
Paul  Harvey,  News 
World  Church 

Gene  Autry 
Hall  Of  Fame 

7:00 

7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

A  Radio  Tribute 

Rod  And  Gun  Club 
Enchanted  Hour 

News 

7:05  Quincy  Howe 

George  Sokolsky 

News 

Jack  Benny 
Amos  V  Andy 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

Dr.  Six  Gun 
Barrie  Craig 

Heartbeat  Of  Indus- 
try 

Oklahoma  City 
Symphony 

American  Town 
Meeting 

Our  Miss  Brooks 
My  Little  Margie 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Adventure  Of  The 

Abbots 
Easy  Money 

Oklahoma  City 

Symphony  (con.) 
Manion  Forum 
News,  Hazel  Markel 

Walter  Winched 
News,  Taylor  Grant 

Edgar  Bergen  Show 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

Fibber  McGee  And 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
NBC  Travel  Bureau 
10:35  Meet  The 

Press 

Billy  Graham 
Little  Symphonies 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

Elmer  Davis 
Revival  Time 

News,  Schorr 
10:05  Mahalia  Jack- 
son, Gospel  Singer 
Face  The  Nation 

Florian  ZaBach 

(Continued  from  page  43) 
syndicating  a  television  show  starring  you!" 

Florian  almost  dropped  the  phone.  For 
years,  a  network  television  show  of  his  own 
had  been  a  distant  dream.  After  setting  the 
lunch  date,  Florian  called  out  the  good 
news  to  his  wife. 

"Helen!  We're  going  to  have  our  own 
national  television  show!"  Hearing  the 
magic  words,  Helen  ran  in  from  the 
kitchen,  fell  into  his  arms,  crying  "I  knew 
you  would  do  it.    I  knew  it!     I  knew  it!" 

Actually,  Florian  shared  Helen's  faith. 
Ever  since  he  left  the  Army  Medical  Corps 
in  1944,  he'd  worked  toward  the  day  when 
he'd  become  a  nationally  recognized  violin 
soloist. 

But  what  must  a  man  do  to  become  a  solo 
performer?  As  a  musician,  he  must  first 
play  in  an  orchestra;  then  a  good  per- 
former floats  to  the  top  as  a  leader;  and, 
finally,  if  he's  one  of  the  best,  he  becomes 
a  soloist. 

Faith.  It's  the  most  important  single  ele- 
ment in  any  man's  success.  Besides  his  abil- 
ity— no  matter  what  his  field — he  must 
have  faith,  faith  in  himself,  and  faith  in 
his  dream.  But  when  is  a  man's  faith  test- 
ed? When  he's  climbed  the  peak  of  suc- 
cess and  all  those  about  him  acclaim  his 
brilliance  as  a  star?  Or  is  it  tested  in  the 
valley  of  trial  where  an  unpredictable  fate 
keeps  smashing  him  down? 

If  Florian  ZaBach's  story  is  any  meas- 
ure, a  man's  faith  is  tested  in  his  darkest 
hour:  When  you're  ready  to  give  up,  when 
life  looks  black  as  a  coal  pit,  that's  the  time 
to  double  your  efforts,  that's  the  time  to 
work  your  hardest — and  that's  when  your 
faith  pays  off. 

Florian's  story  begins  when  he  was  nine 
years  old,  the  day  his  father  bought  Flor- 
ian his  first  violin.  Musical  dreams  are 
contagious:  Florian  caught  his  dream  from 
his  father,  a  clarinet  virtuoso.  He  remem- 
bers his  father's  words,  when  he  handed 
him  the  fiddle:  "God  created  music  as  a 
balm  for  troubled  souls.  Florian,  melodies 
are  like  heavenly  streams,  cool  and  pure, 
bathing  dust  from  wounded  hearts." 

The  picture  his  father's  words  created  for 
him  excited  the  dream  in  Florian's  heart: 
Someday,  he  would  stand  on  a  concert 
stage,  would  thrill  hundreds,  even  thous- 
ands, with  the  music  of  his  magic  fiddle. 
But,  at  that  tender  age,  he  never  dreamed 
that  a  new  magic — the  marvel  of  the  elect- 
ronic age,  television — would  make  his 
music  touch  the  hearts  of  millions! 

In  spite  of  his  musical  heart,  Florian's 
father  was  a  hard  taskmaster.  Perhaps  it 
was  because  his  own  musical  ambitions  had 
been  frustrated.  On  the  verge  of  great 
recognition,  he  had  suddenly  met  with  an 
accident:  He  cut  the  tendons  in  one  hand 
on  a  jagged  piece  of  broken  crockery. 

As  a  result  of  his  own  disappointment, 
he  drove  Florian  in  his  practice  to  limits 
beyond  perfection.  Perhaps  he  wanted  to 
make  sure  that  some  part  of  his  own  musi- 
cal dream  lived  in  his  son.  Florian  says, 
"We  practiced  from  six  to  eight  every 
night.  Dad  sat  next  to  me,  pounding  out 
the  tempo — one,  two,  three;  one,  two,  three. 
But  there  were  times  in  the  beginning 
when  I  would  lag. 


Mefy  VotuyVatietiti! 


Join  tk& 

MARCH  OF  DIMES 

Jo/uia/ty  3-31 


PfiV! 


WHETHER  YOU  RRUSH  YOUR  TEETH 
JUST  OHCE,  TWICE,  OR  3  TIMES  A  DAY... 

Colgate  Denial  Cream 

Gives  The  Surest  Protection 

ALL  DAY  LONG ! 


JS&&CUcdJ2s   Only  New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 

—Of  All  Leading  Toothpastes— Contains  GARDOL* 

To  Stop  Bad  Breath  Instantly . .  Guard  Against  Tooth  Decay  Longer! 


Gardol,  Colgate's  patented  new 
decay-fighter,  forms  an  invisible 
shield  around  your  teeth.  You 
can't  feel  it,  taste  it,  or  see  it— 
but  Gardol's  protection  won't 
rinse  off  or  wear  off  all  day. 
That's  why  Colgate's— the  only 
leading  toothpaste  to  contain 
Gardol— gives  the  surest  pro- 
tection ever  offered  by  any 
toothpaste! 


Your  dentist  will  tell  you  how  often  you 
should  brush  your  teeth.  But  whether 
that's  once,  twice,  or  three  times  a  day,  be 
sure  you  use  New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 
with  Gardol!  Colgate's  stops  bad  breath 
instantly  in  7  out  of  10  cases  that  originate 
in  the  mouth!  Fights  tooth  decay  12  hours 
or  more!  In  fact,  clinical  tests  showed  the 
greatest  reduction  in  tooth  decay  in  tooth- 
paste history! 


"Colgate's  Trade-Mark  For  Sodium 
N-Lauroyl  Sarcosinate.  Patent  No.  2,689,170 


Every  Time  You  Use  It. ..New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 
CLEANS  YOUR  BREATH  <tf GUARDS  YOUR  TEETH! 


73 


"I  could  always  tell  from  the  hurt  look 
in  his  eyes  when  Dad  was  unhappy.  Then 
I  would  get  a  big  lump  in  my  throat  be- 
cause I  felt  I  was  letting  him  down.  After 
two  hours  of  that,  I  went  up  to  bed  barely 
able  to  hold  back  the  tears.  But  Mother  was 
always  there  with  love  and  affection.  'To- 
morrow is  another  day,'  she  said.  'Tomor- 
row is  another  day,  and  I  know  you  are 
going  to  do  real  well.' 

"And  I  always  went  back  to  try  again.  I 
know  this:  My  dad  had  the  patience  of 
Job.  And,  if  it  weren't  for  him,  I  wouldn't 
be  able  to  play  at  all." 

Florian's  mother  and  father  believed  in 
him.  They  saw,  early  in  his  training,  that 
he  had  great  talent. 

When  he  was  only  twelve  years  old,  it 
seemed  that  Florian's  destiny  was  soon  to 
be  realized:  He  played  his  first  solo  with 
the  Chicago  Symphony  Orchestra.  Two 
years  later,  he  was  starring  at  the  famous 
Chicago  World's  Fair. 

Florian  was  not  a  "mother's  boy."  De- 
voted to  his  daily  violin  practice  as  he  was, 
he  still  found  time  for  outside  activities. 
At  sixteen,  he  was  a  blond  giant,  spending 
happy  summer  afternoons  swimming  in  the 
lake  near  his  home.  In  the  winter,  he  swam 
indoors  for  Chicago's  Senn  High  School. 
Result:  In  1936,  he  won  the  Chicago  back- 
stroke championship — a  blue  ribbon  he 
prizes  as  much  as  his  first  concert  audi- 
ence's demand  for  a  violin  encore. 

During  this  time,  Florian  studied  with 
Samatini  at  the  Chicago  Conservatory  of 
Music.  But  with  his  success  in  the  Chicago 
Symphony — and  later  at  the  World's  Fair — 
his  parents  decided  to  broaden  his  training 
in  Europe.  At  sixteen,  he  made  a  solo 
tour  of  the  European  capitals,  later  study- 
ing at  the  Prague  Conservatory. 

"I  came  back  to  the  United  States,"  says 
Florian,  "thinking  I  would  be  a  great  suc- 
cess. After  all,  I  had  toured  Europe,  had 
been  accepted  on  the  Continent.  What  a 
surprise  when  I  found  no  one  in  America 
had  ever  heard  of  Florian  ZaBach!" 

The  surprise  made  Florian  aware  of  his 
position  in  America.  His  advantages:  He 
was  handsome,  young,  a  more  than  com- 
petent violinist.  His  disadvantages:  He 
was  unknown  here,  and  there  were  hun- 
dreds in  the  country  in  the  same  situation. 

But  music  was  his  life.  He  was  not 
going  to  give  up  a  career  which  had  taken 
fifteen  years  to  develop.  What  could  be 
done?  he  asked  himself.  His  answer:  What 
everyone  else  had  done — he'd  start  from 
the  bottom  as  a  sideman  in  an  orchestra, 
and  work  his  way  up.  He  still  had  his 
faith;  he  did  not  give  up  his  destiny  so 
easily. 

He  had  no  sooner  begun  his  apprentice- 
ship, on  the  staff  of  NBC  Radio,  than  World 
War  II  broke  out.  He  spent  two  and  a  half 
years  in  the  Army  Medical  Corps,  then  re- 
turned to  NBC. 

"The  musicians'  union  had  a  funny  rul- 
ing," says  Florian.  "You  have  to  wait 
eight  or  ten  weeks  before  you  can  get 
your  old  job  back.    It  was  a  break  for  me. 

"Roy  Shields,  then  musical  director  for 
NBC,  told  me:  'Florian,  you  should  be  in 
front  of  the  public,  not  hidden  behind  a 
microphone.  You  could  start  with  a  little 
dance  orchestra — I  have  a  friend  who  is 
looking  for  a  leader.    How  about  it?' 

"I  was  scared.  Really.  I  had  never 
played  in  a  dance  band  before.  I  didn't 
know  a  thing  about  the  rhythms,  as  much 
as  my  Dad  had  drummed  rhythm  into  me. 
It  was  an  entirely  new  field. 

"But  Roy  introduced  me  to  the  manager 
of   Chicago's   new   LaSalle   Hotel,   got   to- 
gether   the    musicians,    and    gave    me    a 
T     library   of  music.     I   thought  I  was  again 
V    on  my  way. 

R  "On  the  strength  of  the  job,  I  put  down 
$3,000  on  a  new  $10,000  violin.  One  which 
makes  a  lovely  sound — it  sings  when  you 
play.     So  I  learned  the  rhythms,  I  played 


a  few  solos,  and  I  emceed  the  show.  This 
scared  me,  too.  I  had  confidence  that  I 
could  play,  you  know,  but  I  had  never 
talked  to  audiences! 

"All  in  all,  it  must  have  been  all  right, 
because  our  engagement  was  extended  for 
a  year  and  a  half.  I  would  probably  be 
there  today  if  it  hadn't  been  for  the  fire." 

The  LaSalle  Hotel  fire  of  1946  was  a 
never-to-be-forgotten  catastrophe —  sixty- 
seven  people  were  killed.  Prior  to  this 
tragic  conflagration,  Florian's  schedule  had 
followed  a  set  pattern:  A  few  minutes  be- 
fore midnight,  he  would  finish  his  solo,  take 
his  violin  upstairs  to  its  case  for  safe- 
keeping, change  into  a  business  suit,  then 
return  to  the  band  for  the  last  number. 

The  night  of  the  fire,  he  had  just  put 
his  fiddle  away  (it  was  still  uninsured)  and 
was  returning  to  the  ballroom,  when  he 
saw  the  bright  light  coming  from  the 
lobby.  He  looked  down  the  stairwell: 
There  were  flames  shooting  thirty-feet  in 
the  air.  He  immediately  ran  to  the  ball- 
room to  notify  everyone  on  the  downstairs 
level.  (The  fire  had  started  in  the  ele- 
vator shaft.) 

Then  he  thought  of  his  fiddle!  If  the  fire 
gets  up  there,  he  thought,  it  would  be  just 
too  bad.  He  raced  up  the  stairs  to  his  room. 
Once  there,  he  grabbed  the  violin  case, 
running  for  the  door — but,  by  this  time, 
the  corridor  was  too  filled  with  smoke  for 
escape  in  that  direction. 

Then  he  thought  of  jumping  from  the 
window.  It  was  only  the  second  floor,  and 
the  leap  wouldn't  be  too  much.  But,  when 
he  looked  out,  his  heart  sank:  There  was 
a  mezzanine  in  between,  the  alley  behind 
the  hotel  slipped  off  another  level,  and  it 
was  paved  with  rough  cobblestones,  against 
which  he  wouldn't  stand  a  chance.  The 
fiddle  would  surely  be  smashed — the  whole 
cause  lost. 

So,  for  forty-five  minutes,  he  stayed  in 
the  room  while  firemen  rained  water  on 
the  building  and  the  hotel  crackled  around 
him.  Finally,  he  felt  it  was  safe  to  brave 
the  flames.  Tucking  the  violin  case  under 
his  coat,  he  raced  through  the  smoke -filled 
corridor,  down  the  stairs  to  the  fire  escape, 
and  through  the  flames  to  the  street.  Most 
of  Florian's  hair  was  burned  off,  his  eye- 
brows were  gone,  his  coat  was  so  burned 
through  that  the  case  was  aflame!  But  the 
fiddle  was  unharmed. 

When  is  a  man's  faith  tested?  In  his 
darkest  hour.  Florian  spent  two  months 
recuperating — and  thinking  that,  when  he 
recovered,  he  could  go  back  to  his  old  job. 
It  had  been  promised  to  him.  But  the 
rebuilding  of  the  hotel,  supposed  to  be 
finished  in  four  weeks,  took  fourteen 
months. 

Florian  never  gave,  up  hope  for  his  ca- 
reer. He  still  had  his  fiddle  and,  after  he 
himself  had  recovered,  he  was  offered  a 
spot  as  a  leader  in  the  Hilton  Hotel  chain. 
Slowly,  he  again  built  up  a  following,  first 


Picture-Packed  .  .  . 
Feature-Filled  .  .  . 

Holiday-Headlined    .   .   . 

the  MARCH  ISSUE  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  February  8 


in  Chicago's  Palmer  House,  then  in  the 
Plaza's  Persian  Room  in  New  York,  and 
finally   at   the   Mayflower   in   Washington. 

It  was  at  the  Mayflower  that  Florian 
met  Helen,  his  wife-to-be,  whose  offices 
were  in  the  building.  The  first  time  she 
heard  him  play,  she  was  swept  away  by 
the  magic  of  his  music.  This  man,  she 
thought,  should  be  playing  to  millions,  not 
to  a  dining  room  full  of  enraptured  hotel 
guests.  Florian's  and  Helen's  courtship 
lasted  one  year,  during  which  time  she 
urged  him  to  again  try  the  solo  circuit. 

Florian  was  overjoyed  that  Helen  had 
faith  in  him,  too.  Now  they  would  be  two 
together,  their  combined  strength  would  be 
unbeatable.  So,  shortly  after  their  mar- 
riage, they  left  Washington  for  New  York: 
Florian  would  be  a  soloist,  he  would  play 
before  his  dream  of  thousands,  or  they 
would   both   die   in   the    attempt. 

But,  before  a  man  can  scale  the  peaks  of 
success,  he  must  first  tread  the  valley  of 
trial.  "I  had  an  agent  in  New  York,"  says 
Florian,  "who  said  that  trying  to  sell  me  to 
producers  was  like  trying  to  sell  snow  to 
Eskimos.  He'd  say  to  them:  'I'm  handling 
Florian  ZaBach.'  The  producers  asked: 
'What's  that?  A  new  kind  of  cheese?' 
When  he  told  them  I  was  a  violinist,  they 
pointed  to  their  orchestras,  saying,  'I've  got 
ten  violins.  I  need  another  one  like  I  need 
a  hole  in  the  head!'  " 

This  period  of  trial  lasted  two  years. 
During  this  time,  Florian  worked  occasion- 
ally, but  there  were  times  when  the  rent 
was  long  overdue  and  the  refrigerator 
empty.  It  was  finally  necessary  for  them 
to  sell  their  furniture;  then  Florian 
pawned  the  jewelry — and,  finally,  a  ring 
Helen  had  given  him  as  a  gift. 

"I  walked  into  the  pawn  shop,"  says 
Florian,  "offering  some  of  my  clothes  and 
the  ring.  The  broker  looked  at  me  as 
though  I  were  a  thief.  He  didn't  offer  me 
nearly  the  ring's  value,  so  I  took  it  down 
the  street.  I'm  sure  he  followed  me  be- 
cause he  thought  I  was  a  crook.  In  the 
end,  I  had  to  accept  his  price. 

"During  these  two  years,  there  were 
opportunities  offered  me  to  go  back  into  a 
band  as  a  sideman.  Much  as  our  hungry 
stomachs  wanted  those  jobs,  I  couldn't 
accept  them.  And  Helen  wouldn't  have 
let  me  do  it  if  I  wanted  to.  If  I  had  taken 
even  one  of  those  jobs,  it  would  have 
meant   the   two   years   had   been   wasted." 

With  everything  they  owned  pawned — 
everything  except  the  violin — behind  in 
the  rent,  without  furniture  (not  even  a 
radio),  they  still  never  gave  up  their  be- 
lief that  Florian  would  be  accepted. 

"Then  it  happened,"  says  Florian,  "and 
I  can  thank  Arthur  Godfrey.  I  had  been 
on  one  of  his  radio  shows  in  Washington. 
So,  thinking  I  should  try  television,  I 
visited  his  Talent  Scouts  show.  I  played 
'The  Hot  Canary' — and  I  won!" 

That  was  the  beginning  of  Florian's 
rapid  rise  to  fame  as  a  soloist.  After  win- 
ning on  Talent  Scouts,  he  went  into  Broad- 
way's Strand  Theater  for  three  weeks — 
and  was  held  over  for  thirty-three,  setting 
a  record.  Then  Decca  Records  asked  for 
him:  His  first  recording,  "The  Hot  Canary," 
sold  over  a  million  copies!  Then  Florian 
began  making  guest  appearances:  Again  on 
Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts,  Arthur  Godfrey 
And  His  Friends,  the  Milton  Berle  show 
and  others.  Finally,  he  had  his  own  TV 
show  in  New  York — the  show  on  which 
Mr.  Reuben  Kaufman  saw  him. 

Today,  Florian's  long-cherished  dream 
has  come  true.  As  a  soloist,  he  plays — 
not  to  thousands — but  to  millions  of  fans. 
His  Guild  Films  show  is  already  being 
seen  on  sixty-seven  stations  throughout 
the  country,  will  play  to  one  hundred 
stations  by  February  and  two  hundred  by 
next  spring — proving,  beyond  the  most 
skeptical  doubts,  that  a  man  should  have 
faith  in  his  dreams. 


(Continued  from  page  44) 
kind    of    quick,     dry     humor    the     show 
needed.) 

Quizzes  had  never  been  strictly  parlor 
or  party  games  for  the  Van  Deventers. 
The  children  had  learned  their  alphabet 
earlier  than  most  kids  do,  because  Flor- 
ence and  Van  had  turned  it  all  into  an 
exciting  quiz.  "Then  we  learned  the  states," 
Nancy  recalls,  "and  their  capitals,  and 
things  like  that,  by  making  a  game  of 
them.  When  Mother  bathed  us,  when 
Daddy  washed  my  hair,  or  at  meals,  or 
when  we  were  in  the  car,  we  would  start 
doing  quizzes.  We  thought  it  was  won- 
derful fun." 

Nancy,  who  started  it  all  on  the  air,  has 
been  the  "substitute"  on  the  show,  rather 
than  a  regular  member  .  .  .  fitting  in  her 
appearances  between  her  high  schooling, 
her  college  work — she  majored  in  Early 
Childhood  Education — and,  more  recently, 
a  job.  Bobby  (who  took  his  grandmother's 
name  of  McGuire  for  the  program)  was 
off  the  air  for  four  years  while  he  went  to 
Duke  University  in  North  Carolina  .  .  . 
so  a  friend  of  his,  Johnny  McPhee,  com- 
muted from  his  classes  at  Princeton  to  the 
studio  in  New  York  to  take  Bobby's  place. 
When  Johnny  went  on  to  Cambridge  for 
further  study,  Bobby  was  ready  to  fit  back 
into  the  show. 

The  usual  panel  still  consists  of  Van, 
Florence  (who  uses  her  maiden  name  of 
Rinard  on  the  show),  Bobby  and  Herb — 
with  Jay  Jackson  as  quizmaster,  and  Jack 
Irish  as  the  "Mystery  Voice"  who  lets  the 
home  audience  in  on  the  secret  subject 
chosen.  A  guest  quizmaster  is  invited  each 
week  from  show  business  or  from  any  one 
of  dozens  of  other  fields. 

In    the    beginning,    Florence    and    Van 


The  Greatest  Question 

thought  the  program  might  last  six  months, 
maybe  a  year,  if  they  were  lucky.  Van  was 
a  successful  newscaster  at  this  point — a 
logical  step  as  a  result  of  his  solid  experi- 
ence as  a  newspaperman  and  reporter — 
and  the  hard  years  of  the  Depression  were 
forgotten.  To  a  large  extent,  Twenty  Ques- 
tions was  started  as  a  family  show,  simply 
for  the  fun  of  it.  Just  the  same,  they  all 
had  first-night  fright,  and  Nancy — who 
felt  responsible  for  it — was  practically 
petrified.  (The  show  went  on  television 
in  the  fall  of  1949,  practically  a  pioneer  in 
the  new  medium,  first  as  a  simulcast  and 
now  exclusively  TV.) 

The  Van  Deventers  use  the  word  "de- 
duce" instead  of  the  word  "guess,"  be- 
cause— as  Van  says — "We  don't  guess. 
Even  when  the  answer  may  seem  to  come 
to  one  of  us  in  a  flash,  it  is  a  logical  de- 
duction from  what  has  been  established 
by   the   previous   questions." 

When  they  are  not  in  the  New  York 
studio  for  the  show — it  takes  only  a  half- 
hour  a  week  and,  of  course,  no  rehearsal 
time,  since  the  whole  thing  starts  spon- 
taneously as  the  cameras  begin  to  grind — 
they  are  apt  to  be  somewhere  close  to 
home,  which  is  an  eight-room  ranch-style 
house  in  Princeton,  New  Jersey.  They  call 
the  place  Twintegspel,  which  is  Dutch  for 
"a  game  of  twenty."  (At  least,  that's  what 
Van  found  out  in  the  Princeton  University 
Library.) 

"It's  the  home  we  dreamed  about," 
Florence  says.  "The  one  we  talked  about 
during  all  those  years  when  we  barely 
had  money  enough  to  get  by,  when  every- 
body was  feeling  the  pinch  and  Fred  was 
doing  any  kind  of  work  he  could  get — 
newspaper  or  otherwise — to  keep  the 
family  going.  We  used  to  sit  around  and 


plan  this  house  we  were  going  to  build 
someday." 

"We  designed  it,  and  re-designed  it," 
Van  adds,  "And,  over  the  years,  we  had 
plenty  of  time  to  change  our  ideas  before 
the  dream  came  true.  But  when  it  did — as 
we  knew  it  would  someday — we  had  de- 
cided just  about  what  we  wanted,  and 
could  go  right  ahead." 

The  house  is  set  on  five  acres,  land- 
scaped to  look  as  much  as  possible  like  the 
Indiana  farms  where  Van  and  Florence 
spent  their  childhood.  (Van  grew  up  in 
Tipton  and  Florence  in  Farmland.  They 
didn't  meet  until  they  were  both  in  Chi- 
cago— which  is  a  later  part  of  this  story.) 
Reminiscent  of  their  farm  background  is 
the  old  dinner  bell,  and  the  pond  which, 
in  season,  is  occupied  by  four  ducks  and 
hundreds  of  frogs.  There  are  flowers 
everywhere — from  early  spring  until  late 
fall — vegetable  gardens,  spreading  lawns 
and  fine  old  trees. 

Missing  is  an  outdoor  fireplace,  al- 
though there  is  a  grill  where  the  young- 
sters can  cook  hamburgers  for  their  own 
friends.  Florence,  who  is  the  chef  most  of 
the  time,  prefers  cooking  in  her  own 
compact,  completely  modern  kitchen,  and 
Van  doesn't  care  much  for  steak,  that 
staple  of  the  outdoor  cook's  menu.  He 
much  prefers  his  wife's  cream-baked 
chicken,  a  recipe  he  says  only  she  under- 
stands. And  he's  willing  to  put  up  her 
pies  against  any  pies  baked  anywhere, 
against  all  the  State  Fair  champions  and 
all  the  professional  cooks  in  the  country. 

Van  proposed  to  Florence  in  front  of  an 
oven  ("to  be  assured  of  good  meals  for 
the  rest  of  his  life,"  she  says).  They  had 
met  when  he  was  working  as  a  reporter 
on  the   Chicago  Hearst  newspaper.  Van's 


16a//  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  problem 


Tested  by  doctors...  proved  in  hospital  clinics 


NORFORMS 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by  doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


i.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 


Ma/7  this  coupon  today 


A  NORWICH  PRODUCT 


FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 

Just  mail  this  coupon  to:  Dept 
Norwich  Pharmacal  Company, 

RT-52 
Norwich,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me 
plain  envelope. 

the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 

Name,, 

Street ., 

(PUASE  pr.nt) 

Ci«y 

Zone 

Stale 

I 

76 


redoing  a  room 

can  be  easy 
as  pie... 


just  use  your 

washer 


ft 


oo 


and 


Using  your  washer  as  a  "dyeing 
machine,"  you  can  Rit-dye  draperies, 

bedspreads,  slip  covers  .  . . 
even  scatter  rugs  ...  as  easily  as  you 
suds  them.   Furthermore,  you  get 
even  deep-toned  hues  .  . . 
vivid  greens,  brilliant  blues, 
warm  browns  ...  in  just  hot  tap 
water.  The  extra  fine  dyes  in  Rit, 
plus  the  constant  action  of  your 
washer,  see  to  that.    Start  now — and 
you'll  refresh  the  whole  house 

with  color  .  .  .  Rit  color! 


All 
Purpose 


The  finest  dye 

the  high  concentrate  dye 

and  only 


Also  available  in  Canada 
RIT  PRODUCTS  CORPORATION 

1437  W.  Morris  St.,  Indianapolis  6 


kid  sister  had  come  to  Chicago  with  a  na- 
tional musical  chorus  group  which  in- 
cluded high  school  supervisors — among 
whom  was  a  married  girl  they  both  knew 
from  his  home  town.  "This  girl  telephoned 
me  and  said  I  had  been  elected  to  show 
them  the  big  city.  I  said  that  was  fine — 
mentally  counting  the  change  in  my  pock- 
ets— and  immediately  touched  a  few  of 
my  newspaper  pals  for  some  loans  to 
finance  the  expeditions. 

"This  girl  had  asked  if  I  wanted  her  to 
bring  along  a  date  chosen  from  among  her 
sorority  sisters.  I  said  fine  to  that,  too — 
but  when  she  asked  if  I  preferred  blondes 
or  brunettes,  I  said  I  was  neutral.  So  she 
brought  along  two  dates — an  attractive 
brunette,  and  a  little  five-foot,  blue-eyed 
blonde  named  Florence  Mae  Rinard." 

Van  pauses  when  he  tells  this,  and  looks 
at  his  wife.  "I  guess  I  never  did  have  a 
chance.  By  the  second  date,  I  had  forgot- 
ten all  about  the  brunette." 

That  first  date  was  during  the  latter 
part  of  April,  1928.  A  little  later,  Flor- 
ence's mother  and  aunt  came  to  Chicago 
to  visit  ("to  look  me  over,"  Van  says). 
Florence  cooked  dinner  for  them,  fried 
chicken  country-style,  with  home-made 
biscuits.  "I  think  those  biscuits  did  the 
trick.  She  was  taking  them  out  of  the 
oven  when  I  proposed  to  her." 

They  were  married  the  following  June 
21,  in  Muncie,  Indiana.  Van  was  so  ex- 
cited he  forgot  the  flowers  and  the  bride 
had  to  provide  her  own  bouquet.  The 
minister  was  up  on  the  scaffolding  in- 
specting his  new  church  when  they 
grabbed  him  off  to  perform  the  ceremony. 
(Florence's  brother  had  driven  them  over 
to  Muncie  because  their  own  minister  was 
away  at  a  conference.  Florence  had  prac- 
ticed organ  in  the  Muncie  church,  how- 
ever, and  the  minister  there  had  often 
stopped  to  listen  to  her  playing — and,  by 
the  merest  chance,  her  organ  teacher  hap- 
pened to  come  by  just  in  time  to  play  for 
the  wedding!)  Van  had  to  get  back  to  his 
job  as  a  reporter,  so  there  had  been  little 
chance  to  make  formal  plans. 

"Our  honeymoon  trip  was  a  slow  train 
to  Chicago,"  he  recalls.  "We  stopped  ex- 
actly twenty  minutes  at  Peru,  Indiana, 
where  we  had  our  'wedding  lunch'  of 
hamburgers  and  coffee.  When  we  got  off 
the  train  in  Chicago,  I  kissed  my  bride 
and  gave  her  the  key  to  my  apartment, 
where  we  were  going  to  live.  I  had  to 
hurry  to  cover  a  fight  that  night.  You 
might  say  I  have  been  covering  one  ever 
since." 

"You  might,"  the  whole  family  shouts  at 
this,  "except  that  it  wouldn't  be  true." 

It  definitely  wouldn't  be.  They're  an 
arguing  family,  but  without  any  rancor. 
They  all  have  definite  convictions  and  are 
sticklers  for  facts.  Nancy,  for  instance,  is 
a  demon  defender  of  exact  dates.  If  her 
father  says  that  a  certain  program  was  in 
November  and  she  thinks  it  was  the  last 
week  in  October,  that  can  be  good  for  five 
minutes  of  debate — until  someone  gets 
the  facts  and  decides  the  argument. 

It's  this  pertinacity  for  finding  the  right 
answers  to  everything  which  makes  them 
such  a  dynamic  quiz  team.  It  makes  them 
dynamic  in  everything  they  do.  Florence 
is  a  serious  pianist — she  once  taught  both 
music  and  art  in  the  Indiana  schools.  She 
still  does  watercolors  and  pastels,  is  a  vol- 
unteer worker  in  the  hospital  at  Prince- 
ton, and  does  church  work.  Nancy  has 
been  taken  up  with  tackling  her  first  inde- 
pendent job  outside  the  family  circle  and 
outside  the  family  show.  Bobby  has  writ- 
ten a  book — a  novel — but  he  doesn't  like 
to  talk  of  it  and,  when  anybody  asks  what 
the  book  is  about,  he  says  casually,  "Oh, 
about  250  pages."  (At  Duke,  he  was  active 
in  theatricals,  and  wrote  a  play,  produced 
there,  called  "All's  Fair  in  Love.  ) 


There's  a  rumor  that  Van  is  writing  a 
book,  too — and  he  almost  owns  up  to  it. 
When  weather  permits  and  he  isn't 
pounding  the  typewriter,  he's  out  riding 
the  tractor  around  the  place,  although 
only  half-heartedly  doing  the  kind  of 
chores  that  keep  him  away  from  his  fish- 
ing and  from  the  20-foot  express  cruiser 
which  he  bought  last  summer  to  fulfill 
another  long-time  dream. 

Their  social  life  has  centered  mostly 
around  Princeton,  ever  since  they  made 
their  home  there.  Florence  and  Van  play 
bridge  a  lot,  and  the  whole  family  goes  in 
for  square  dancing,  belonging  to  a  club 
which  now  meets  in  an  old  barn  but  will 
someday  get  together  in  the  basement  of 
the  Van  Deventer  manse,  when  Van  gets 
it  all  ready  for  them.  Besides  the  ducks 
who  live  on  their  pond,  they  have  Lug- 
head  the  cat  ("Part  Persian,"  Nancy  says. 
"Mostly  alley,"  Van  adds).  Jughead,  their 
collie,  went  to  dog  heaven  a  while  back 
and  they  haven't  yet  found  the  dog  to  re- 
place him. 

.People  often  ask  how  a  family  has  been 
able  to  make  a  successful  program  out  of 
such  a  simple  game,  known  to  millions 
before  it  was  put  on  the  air.  The  children 
remind  questioners  that  Van  has  been 
a  working  newspaperman  and  a  news- 
caster of  long  experience,  that  he  has  a 
fine  background  of  historical  study  and 
reading  and  a  passion  for  keeping  up  with 
current  events,  and  that  Florence  has  a 
fund  of  information  about  both  music  and 
art,  and  a  lifelong  acquaintance  with  the 
Bible.  The  kids,  too,  have  become  au- 
thorities on  certain  subjects.  Bobby  is 
well  versed  in  information  about  most 
sports,  particularly  baseball.  Nancy  has  a 
wide  knowledge  of  classical  music  and 
musicians  (a  subject  Herb  Polesie  knows 
well,  also,  along  with  modern  music  and 
an  almost  encyclopedic  knowledge  of 
show  business  and  all  that  pertains  to  it). 

They  are  often  asked:  What  are  the 
easiest  subjects  to  guess?  "The  ones  we 
get,"  they  chorus.  (Actually,  any  subject 
which  they  can  identify  after  fifteen  ques- 
tions, they  count  as  reasonably  easy.)  One 
of  the  toughest  ones  they  ever  had  to  fig- 
ure out  was. "the  flag  on  a  country  mail- 
box." They  don't  know  why,  but  it  was. 

The  very  toughest  subject  they  have 
ever  encountered  is  "the  weakest  link  in 
a  chain."  It  pops  up  every  once  in  a  while, 
and  they  never  get  it.  Van  says,  "It's  not 
readily  identifiable,  as  other  subjects  are. 
For  instance,  it  could  be  either  animal,  or 
vegetable,  or  mineral — leather,  rope,  or 
metal — so  you  can't  start  to  pin  it  down." 
Florence  adds,  "And  it's  only  part  of  a 
saying,  which  helps  to  make  it  hard." 

When  the  Van  Deventers  are  invited  to 
parties,  no  one  ever  asks  them  any  more 
to  play  "Twenty  Questions."  In  the  first 
place,  they're  too  good  at  it.  In  the  second, 
everyone  would  suppose  that,  after  nine 
years  on  the  air,  playing  any  parlor  game 
would  seem  too  much  like  their  regular 
job. 

The  situation  is  quite  the  contrary, 
however.  It's  true  they  no  longer  have  to 
depend  on  quiz  games  alone  for  amuse- 
ment. But,  if  you  ride  in  the  family  car 
with  two  or  more  Van  Deventers,  or  wait 
with  them  for  a  meal  to  be  served  in  a 
restaurant — or  are  anywhere  with  time  to 
be  filled  and  nothing  special  to  do — it 
starts.  Someone  will  suddenly  get  that 
quiz-zical  look.  "It's  vegetable,  and  min- 
eral," says  someone  (probably  Nancy), 
and  they're  off. 

"Does  this  thing  exist?"  Van  may  ask. 

"Can  it  be  located  geographically?" 
Bobby  will  follow  up. 

"If  it  doesn't  exist,  is  it  in  a  saying,  or 
in  poetic  fiction?"  Florence  questions. 

And  so  it  goes,  on  and  on.  For  the  whole 
twenty  questions,  if  need  be. 


Betty  White 

(Continued  from  page  31) 
The  Great  Gilder  sleeve,  then  regular  parts 
on  several  radio  shows  and,  finally,  tele- 
vision came  into  the  picture. 

Betty  has  won  some  personal  bonuses 
from  her  philosophy  of  life.  "I  don't  be- 
lieve in  defeat"  has  taught  her  something 
of  both  courage  and  faith.  There  was  the 
time,  for  example,  even  after  she  had 
started  in  radio,  when  her  progress  seemed 
stymied.  She  just  wasn't  getting  ahead. 

But  she  felt,  inside  of  herself — or,  rather, 
she  knew  deep  inside  of  her — that  making 
people  happy  with  entertainment  was  for 
her,  and  in  this  she  had  faith.  This  faith 
carried  her  through  a  bleak  period  which 
followed  her  original  radio  success.  But, 
during  this  time,  she  didn't  complain.  In- 
stead, she  told  me  one  day  how  she  felt: 

"Mom,"  she  said,  "anybody  can  keep 
going  when  the  going  is  good,  but  the 
secret  is  to  hang  on  when  everything  seems 
to  be  going  against  you." 

I  think  Betty's  first  job  in  television  il- 
lustrates how  faith  pays  off.  Because  she 
knew  in  her  heart  that  entertaining  was 
for  her,  she  was  willing  to  do  anything  to 
keep  herself  going — even  working  for 
nothing.  This  she  did,  one  day  on  Joe 
Landis'  early  variety  show.  Where  fate  had 
previously  stolen  her  voice,  it  stepped  in 
again  with  this  first  job.  Mr.  Landis  had 
a  long  list  of  singers  and  possibilities  to 
call  on  for  his  show.  But,  by  pure  chance, 
not  one  of  them  was  able  to  show  up! 
Betty's  name  was  the  last  on  the  list — and, 
just  one  hour  before  showtime,  she  got 
the  call.  She  went  on,  did  the  song  and,  on 
the  strength  of  it,  was  signed  to  do  a  song 
spot  on  another  show,  Wes  Battersea's 
Grab  Your  Phone. 

Hut  this  didn't  last  long,  either.  I  think 
that,  psychologically,  this  was  Betty's  low 
point.  She  had  been  trying  desperately  to 
break  into  TV — those  two  nibbles  had  en- 
couraged and  then  disappointed  her — and 
pounding  the  pavement  from  one  agent's 
door  to  another  had  resulted  in  only  "no 
work"  news.  She  came  in,  on  the  day  we 
call  "the  very  discouraged  Thursday," 
nearly  defeated,  saying:  "Oh,  Mom.  I  just 
don't  know,  any  more  .  .  .  am  I  beat  or 
am  I  beat?" 

"What  do  you  think?"  I  said.  "Have  you 
forgotten  so  soon  what  you  told  me  about 
hanging  on?" 

"No,"  she  said,  "I  haven't  forgotten!" 
She  sat  up  and,  proceeding  to  pull  herself 
out  of  it,  said:  "Yup!  I  will  just  go  out 
again  tomorrow.  I  still  feel  it:  I  just  know 
there   must  be  something!" 

At  that  very  instant,  the  phone  rang.  It 
was  Al  Jarvis.  She  had  known  him  briefly 
on  the  KLAC  lot — they  had  been  intro- 
duced, but  that's  all. 

"I've  seen  you  on  the  Grab  Your  Phone 
show,"  he  said.  "How  would  you  like  to 
try  out  for  a  television  show  I'm  starting?" 

"Fine,"  said  Betty,  thinking  it  was  for 
one   time    only. 

"Tell  me,"  asked  Mr.  Jarvis,  "can  you 
sing?  Dance?  Are  you  willing  to  do  the 
commercials?" 

Betty,  stretching  it  a  bit,  bravely  said 
"Yes"  to  everything.  Then,  hanging  up  the 
phone,  she  reported:  "Mother,  I  think  I've 
got  a   job   for   Monday!" 

Monday  she  went  in  to  discover  that  her 
job  was  to  run  five  hours  a  day,  six  days 
a  week! 

That  was  Betty's  real  beginning.  At  first, 
she  was  only  to  answer  the  phone  on  Mr. 
Jarvis'  show,  as  she  had  on  Grab  Your 
Phone.  But  the  job  grew  to  helping  with 
the  commercials,  then  "setting  up"  the 
commercials — then  interviewing  the  guests. 

I  remember  an  incident  that  happened 
last    year,    which    illustrates    Betty's    en- 


HANDS* TIED?   |"SW^ 


—because  you  lack  a 
HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA 

•  You  can  qualify  for  an  American  School 
Diploma  in  spare  time  at  home!  If  you  have 
left  school,  write  or  mail  coupon  for  FREE 
booklet  that  tells  how.  No  obligation  of  any 
kind. 
OUR  58TH  YEAR 


AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  V253 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois 

Please  send  FREE  High  School  booklet. 


Name 

Address 

City  &  State . 


Permanent  Coloring3 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 

SWIMPRQOF!  One  application  lasts 
4  to  5  weeks'  Our  ?lsl  year. 
*for  the  hairs  to  which  opplied 

51.00  (plus  lax)  al  leading 
drug  and  dep't.  stores 

Send  TODAY     Q  Q 
for  TRIAL  SIZE  ^0C 


"DARK-EYES"  Dept.  P-25 

3319  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 


Check  Shade:  D  Black       D  Browo 


Address  - 
La  Town 


.J 


77 


Rate  Yourself 

on  this  true  or  false 

quiz  about  internal  sanitary 

protection 

True   False 

1.  Tampax  is  based   on  the  r] 
well-known    principle    of 
internal  absorption. 

2.  Tampax  was  invented  by  a  O    LJ 
doctor. 

3.  Tampax  can  be  worn  by  LJ    Lj 
any  normal  woman. 

4.  Though  only  1/9  the  size  □    □ 
of  an  external  pad,  Tampax 

is  as  absorbent. 

5.  User's   hands   need   never  Q    Q 
touch  the  Tampax. 

6.  When  properly  worn,  Tam-  [  '    j    | 
pax  cannot  be  felt. 

7.  Tampax   prevents   odor  Q    Q 
from  forming  by  prevent- 
ing exposure  to  the  air. 

8.  Tampax   can   be   worn   in  []    [ 
shower  or  tub. 

9.  Both    the   applicator   and  Q    Q 
the  Tampax  itself  are  easily 
disposed. 

10.  Regular,  Super  and  Junior  Q    Q 
Tampax  refer  to  differences 

in  absorbency  rather  than 
in  size. 

11.  Millions  of  women  have  O    Q 
used  billions  of  Tampax. 

12.  Tampax  is  over  20  years  old.  [ 

13.  Tampax  is  sold  in  over  70  [ 
countries  outside  America. 

14.  Tampax  is  sold  at  both  drug  [ 
and  notion  counters. 

15.  A  month's  supply  of  Tam-  [ 
pax  can  be  carried  in  the 
purse. 

Answer:  All  oj  the  above  statements  are 
true.  Tampax  Incorporated,  Palmer,  Mass. 


thusiasm,  her  optimism,  her  "don't  be- 
lieve in  defeat"  attitude.  Betty  and  her 
orchestra  leader,  Frank  DeVol,  were  both 
candidates  in  the  race  for  Honorary  May- 
or of  Hollywood.  Selection  of  the  Mayor 
was  part  of  an  annual  Kiwanis  campaign 
to  raise  money  for  underprivileged  and 
needy  children.  All  of  Hollywood — in  fact, 
everyone — can  vote,  the  votes  costing  ten 
cents  each,  the  money  going  into  the  Ki- 
wanis   Children's    Fund. 

I  remember  that,  at  a  luncheon  honor- 
ing the  "mayoral  candidates"  (Betty,  Frank 
DeVol,  Lawrence  Welk,  Tennessee  Ernie, 
Jack  Bailey,  and  others),  there  were  a 
number  of  long  Kiwanian  faces.  Though 
it  was  early  in  the  race,  there  had  been 
such  a  scant  number  of  ten-cent  votes 
counted  that  their  $3,000  goal  looked 
mighty    distant. 

But  Betty  didn't  lose  her  enthusiasm.  In 
fact,  knowing  that  things  looked  rough, 
she  was  more  determined  than  ever  to 
make  the  campaign  a  success.  Then,  at  the 
luncheon,  she  ^and  Frank  DeVol  were 
thrown  into  an  ad-lib  skit  together — as 
one  mind,  it  seemed,  they  began  making 
jokes  of  the  financial  situation.  Before  the 
luncheon  was  over,  their  enthusiasm  had 
spread  to  all  the  club  members. 

No,  neither  Betty  nor  Frank  DeVol  won 
the  title — at  that  time  (though  Betty  did 
win  this  year's  campaign) .  Jack  Bailey,  of 
Queen  For  A  Day,  was  elected.  But  the 
enthusiasm  with  which  all  the  "mayors" 
campaigned  did  make  the  original  $3,000 
figure  look  pale  and  wan — all  together, 
they  raised  $10,000! 

And,  the  day  after  the  luncheon,  Betty 
went  up  to  her  producers,  Don  Fedderson 
and  George  Tibbies,  saying:  "That  Frank 
DeVol  is  a  funny  man — if  he  can  make 
the  Kiwanians  laugh  in  such  a  situation, 
he  should  be  able  to  make  other  folks 
laugh,  too.  And  we  work  like  a  charm  to- 
gether. We  really  ought  to  find  a  situa- 
tion for  him  on  Life  With  Elizabeth."  And 
that's  how  Frank   came  to  that  show. 

But  I'm  getting  a  little  bit  ahead  of 
myself.  We  were  still  talking  about  Al 
Jarvis  and  Betty's  first  success.  You  know, 
Betty  has  always  been  first  to  give  credit 
for  this  success  to  Mr.  Jarvis.  Al  gave  her 
a  schooling  she  will  never  forget.  And  it's 
fared  her  well,  believe  me. 

Jt>y  now,  it  seems  that  everything  in 
Betty's  career  since  her  first  introduction 
to  TV  on  the  Jarvis  show  is  almost  anti- 
climactic.  From  that  beginning,  she  just 
seemed  to  grow.  The  next  big  break  came 
when  Betty  was  offered  her  own  program 
on  KLAC,  here  in  Los  Angeles.  Mr.  Don 
Fedderson,  then  station  manager,  had 
watched  Betty  take  hold  of  the  show,  after 
Mr.  Jarvis  had  gone  to  another  station. 
When  he  saw  that  she  was  so  at  home,  so 
successful,  he  just  upped  and  told  her  one 
day:  "Betty,  from  now  on  we're  going  to 
call  this  The  Betty  White  Showl" 

Then  Betty  started  doing  a  little  three- 
minute  spot  at  night.  It  was  Betty's  brain- 
child, called  Alvin  And  Elizabeth,  and  it, 
too,  soon  grew  to  five  minutes— then  more. 
There  were  no  written  sketches,  just  some 
things  that  Betty  dreamed  up.  She  finally 
ran  out  of  ideas  and  hired  George  Tibbies 
to  write  material  for  it — but,  by  then,  it 
was  a  weekly  one-hour  show.  It  was  later 
chopped  down  to  a  half-hour  of  just  plain 
Life  With  Elizabeth.  This  was  the  show 
which  won  her  the  1952  "Emmy"  as  the 
most  outstanding  personality  in  TV. 

And  this  year,  of  course,  Life  With  Eliz- 
abeth won  her  her  Billboard  magazine 
awards.  She  was  so  surprised!  Last  year, 
Lucy  and  Jack  Webb  were  the  two  big 
winners,  with  Imogene  Coca  running  a 
close  second.  It  was  something  Betty  al- 
ways liked  to  read  about  as  happening  to 
others,  but  she  never  dreamed  she  was 
under    consideration.    So    it    came    like    a 


bolt  from  the  blue,  when  she  read  that 
she  had  been  voted  two  top  awards:  "the 
best  actress  in  any  syndicated  program" 
and  "best  comedy  actress"!  Jack  Webb 
won  again  this  year,  too,  and  Loretta 
Young  won  as  the  best  network  actress. 

But  not  all  of  Betty's  life  since  television 
has  been  smooth  as  cream.  She  has  had 
to  work  hard  for  her  success.  Her  schedule 
is  demanding.  She  has  been  so  physically 
tired  at  times  that  she  was  ready  to  drop. 
And  we've  had  some  emotional  problems 
here  in  the  house,  in  her  private  life,  that 
have  knocked  the  props  out  from  under 
her,   too. 

You  know,  Betty's  pets  play  such  an 
important  part  in  her  life,  and  one  night 
we  had  a  tragedy — Betty's  Pekingese  was 
taken  sick  and,  in  the  middle  of  the  night, 
she  took  him  to  the  vet's.  We  had  had  him 
for  many  years,  but  his  time  had  come, 
and  we  lost  him.  Of  course,  Betty  cried 
the  rest  of  the  night. 

Well,  some  people  may  scoff.  They  may 
think  you  do  not  get  attached  to  dogs. 
But  I  know  better.  They  are  just  like 
children  to  us.  They  always  become  such 
an  important  part  of  our  house.  Betty,  you 
know,  is  an  only  child.  And,  ever  since 
she  was  a  baby,  we've  had  puppies  for  her 
to  play  with.  We  hoped  they  would  help 
take  the  place  of  the  brothers  and  sisters 
she  couldn't  have — because  an  auto  acci- 
dent took  that  possibility  away  from  me 
shortly  after  her  birth.  It's  for  this  reason 
we've  always  had  dogs  to  help  fill  the 
house.  And  that's  why,  when  we  lose  one, 
it's  such  a  great  tragedy. 

Betty  says  that  it's  "a  vacant  place  to 
fill."  She  has  made  it  a  policy  always  to 
fill  that  emptiness  with  a  new  puppy. 
She  says  it  doesn't  take  the  same  place  in 
your  heart  the  other  dog  had,  but  it  helps 
fill  up  the  hurt — and  then  you  get  so  pre- 
occupied watching  the  new  little  puppy  in 
its  antics,  you  fall  in  love  all  over  again. 

The  point  is  that,  the  night  our  little 
Peke  died,  Betty  was  prostrated.  She  cried 
all  night — the  very  night  before  she  was 
to  make  her  first  and  most  important  film 
for  Life  With  Elizabeth.  Up  until  then, 
she  had  been  a  West  Coast  personality — 
but,  the  next  morning,  she  was  to  make 
the  appearance  which  would  introduce 
her  across  the  nation. 

Believe  me,  that  day  she  had  to  reach 
down  into  her  faith  to  put  on  a  smile,  to 
be  cheery  in  front  of  the  camera.  But  she 
never  said,  "Why  did  this  have  to  happen 
to  me?"  She  didn't  complain.  Rather,  as 
she  wiped  the  tears  and  went  out  the  door, 
she  said: 

"It  hurts,  Mother.  But  I  guess  I'm  not 
the  only  one  in  the  world  with  a  pain. 
There  must  be  millions  who  are  far  worse 
off  today  than  we  are.  .  .  ." 

And  that  statement  illustrates  the  last 
point  in  Betty's  philosophy  of  life:  Cour- 
age— courage  in  the  face  of  obstacles.  She 
did  not  cover  herself  with  self-pity;  she 
did  not  take  the  attitude  that  she  was  in 
a  situation  in  which  nobody  had  ever  been 
before.  She  smiled,  went  to  work,  hoping 
she  could  bring  happiness  into  someone 
else's  life. 

The  way  I  have  been  telling  this  makes 
it  sound  like  I'm  bragging  about  Betty. 
Of  course,  a  mother  would  sound  that 
way,  but  I  don't  mean  to  make  Betty  sound 
noble — she's  nothing  of  the  sort.  She's 
just  a  regular  gal  who's  learned,  the  hard 
way,  that — when  the  going  gets  rough — 
faith  supplies  "staying  power."  She's 
learned  from  experience  that  she's  never 
alone  with  her  problems — other  people 
have  suffered  before  and  won  out,  prob- 
ably in  the  exact  situations  she  found 
herself  in.  And  these  experiences  have 
given  her  the  courage  never  to  believe  in 
defeat. 


Romantic  Adventure 

(Continued  from  page  62) 
There  are  book-lined  shelves.  Other 
shelves  and  occasional  tables  are  decked 
with  old  and  beautiful  silver,  including  a 
pair  of  covered  entree  dishes  which  once 
belonged  to  the  late,  great  George  Bernard 
Shaw  and  bear  his  monogram.  Against 
one  wall  is  an  old  Florentine  desk  at  which 
Mr.  Long  answers  his  fan  mail.  Here  and 
there,  too,  is  the  gleam  of  copper,  of  which 
the  most  beautiful  piece  is  an  old  Italian 
kettle. 

Also  ornamenting  the  apartment  are 
Teufelchen  (a  German  name  meaning  "lit- 
tle devil")  and  Alcibiades— Mr.  Long's 
two  Siamese  cats,  who  make  "living  alone" 
a  misstatement,  according  to  their  master. 
"They  are  very  intelligent,"  he  says.  "You 
can  talk  to  them  and  they  answer  back. 
Make  little  noises — which,  since  I  under- 
stand them,  is  conversation." 

In  Mr.  Long's  airborne  apartment,  we 
sat  and  talked  (with  Teufelchen  and  Alci- 
biades making  occasional  contributions) 
about,  first  of  all,  Young  Widder  Brown 
and  Mr.  Long's  fondness  for  Michael  For- 
syth, a  part  which  he  has  been  playing 
for  more  than  a  year  now. 

"If,  one  of  these  days,  Michael  Forsyth 
should  marry  Ellen  Brown,"  I  asked  the 
man  who  knows  him  best,  "what  kind  of 
a  husband  do  you  think  he'd  make?" 

"As  a  husband,  Forsyth — described  in 
the  script  as  'A  young  businessman  from 
Chicago,  about  35,  wealthy,  handsome, 
executive -type' — would  doubtless  be  first- 
rate,"  Mr.  Long  laughed.  "He's  a  nice 
chap,  Forsyth,  with  many  assets  more  im- 
portant than  looks  and  wealth  to  offer  a 
woman — courtesy,  for  instance,  considera- 
tion and  a  nature  sensitive  to  the  prob- 
lems and  pains  of  others. 

1  don't  know,  however,  whether  or  not 
Michael  Forsyth  will  marry  the  Widder 
Brown.  Nevertheless,  at  present,  there  is 
a  nice,  romantic,  very  charming  thing  be- 
tween him  and  Ellen. 

"To  have  a  nice,  romantic,  very  charm- 
ing feeling  about  Widder  Brown  is  not,  by 
the  way,  too  difficult  a  job  of  acting,"  Mr. 
Long  smiled  his  very  nice  smile,  "for  Wen- 
dy Drew,  who  plays  Ellen,  is  a  very 
charming  girl.  Blonde  and  small  and 
dainty.  Friendly,  and  fun.  Very  much 
the  outdoor  type,  too,  in  spite  of  her 
seeming  fragility.  Lives  here  in  New  York, 
as  I  do — loves  it,  as  I  do — and,  also  as  I 
do,  loves  to  swim,  to  drive,  to  be  in  the 
sun,  in  the  country  ....  We  are,  in  fact, 
very  'simpatico'  off-mike,  as  well  as  on. 
So  is  everyone  in  the  cast.  Even  Ethel 
Wilson — who  plays  Mrs.  Summers,  our 
bitter  enemy  on  the  show — is  our  good 
friend  in  real  life,  often  comes  here  to  din- 
ner with  Wendy  and  others  of  our  group. 

"I  would  not  like  to  be  typed,"  said 
Ronald  Long,  who  is  known  as  one  of  the 
most  versatile  actors  on  radio  and  TV. 
"I  enjoy  too  much  the  variety  of  roles  I've 
been  fortunate  enough  to  play.  It's  stim- 
ulating to  go  from  one  extreme  to  an- 
other, as  I  often  do.  On  a  TV  series  titled 
The  Hunter,  for  instance,  I  recently  played 
a  Communist  commissar,  a  particularly 
decadent  sadist  who — while  making  peo- 
ple wait,  making  them  suffer — sits  behind 
his  desk,  eating  chocolates!  The  difference 
between  this  unpleasant  fellow  and  the 
servile  but  hearty  Mr.  Pumblecook  I 
played  in  "Great  Expectations,"  on  Robert 
Montgomery  Presents,  is  what  I  mean  by 
'variety.'  I  enjoyed  the  role  of  Evans 
Baker,  the  sophisticated,  brilliant  lawyer 
I  played  on  Love  Of  Life  for  some  fifteen 
months,  over  CBS-TV.  And  the  many 
others — romantic  leads  and  ruffians,  young- 
sters   and    oldsters — I've    done    on    Studio 


IF  you're 
STOUT 


FASHION-RIGHT 
FROCK 

This  gay  dress  of 
80-square  Percale 
ij  with  bright  border 
I  printed  accents  is 
|  only  $3.98.  Others 
t     from  $2.98  to  $19.! 

Coats  lor  as  little 
as  $10.98.  Also  suits, 
sportswear,  corsets, 
underwear,  hats,  hose 
— all  at  LOW  prices. 


$398  I 


Free 


style  book 

SAVE  MONEY  on  latest 
style  dresses  and  coats, 
in  Sizes  38  to  60,  all 
proportioned   to 
make  you  look 
more  slim.  All  at 
low  prices.  Mail 
Coupon  for  the 
new   108-page 
Style  Book, 
it's  FREE! 

PAS1E  COUPON 

ON  POSTCARD 

AND  MAIL 


ASTH  MA 

wFRo'SE  NO-COST  TRIAL  OFFER! 

IF  YOU  SUFFER  FROM  BRONCHIAL  ASTHMA 
PAROXYSMS,  from  coughs,  gasping  wheezing  .  . . 
write  quick  for  daring  No-Risk,  No-Cost  Trial  Offer.  No 
matter  if  you  consider  your  case  "hopeless" — Write  Todayl 
NACOR,  107-S  State  Life  Bldg.,  Indianapolis  4,  Ind. 


LADIES:  SHEETS. 
'  TOWELS.  MIXERS. 
"  STEAM  IRONS,  etc. 
GIVEN  TO  YOU! 


Ladies,  bring  new  luxury  and  con- 
venience fo  your  home  WITHOUT 
SPENDING  A  PENNY.  Just  form  a 
Charm    House    Club    among    your  I 
friends    and    be    club    secretary. 
Your    friends    will    be    delighted 
because   they    SAVE   MONEY   and 
receive   valuable  FREE   PREMIUMS. 
It's    easy    and    lots    of    fun.    As:  £°S 
secretary    you    get    $50  — $150 
and  MORE  in  nationally  adver- 
tised appliances,  furniture,  rugs,      CT_ 
linens,    draperies,    fashions,  ■.     ,  ,,,<     1} 

gift  wore,  etc.  ABSOLUTELY  fttftl  *si6«i 


^e-HUGE  COLOR  CATALOG 

Don't  Delay  —  Act  Today 


CHARM   HOUSE  ClUB  PLAN     N«w  Hyde  Park  23,  N.  Y. 
Pitas*    >.nd    ma    ABSOLUTELY    FREE    and    without    any 
•(•ligation  your  LARGE  NEW  1955  catalog. 

Addrcsi I 

City ..Zona Slot* _ J 


handling   (2   phoioj  for   25<).   Roih  to: 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STAR  CENTER 

Box  2309,  Dept.    L-2.      Hollywood  28,  California 


Why  be  blue 
when  you 


If  monthly  distress— pain,  cramps,  nervous  tension 
and  headache— get  you  down,  be  smart  and  try 

CHI-CHES-TERS 

If  you  don't  get  safe,  quick,  long-lasting  relief  we 
will  refund  your  money.  Fair  enough?  Get  Chi- 
Ches-Ters  and  compare  this  medically  proven,  pre- 
scription-like "wonder"  formula  with  any  other 
product  you  have  used.  In  doctors'  tests  9  out  of 
10  women  got  relief— often  with  the  first  dose.  Why 
not  you?  Feel  gay  everv  day  with  Chi-Ches-Ters. 
Purse  Pak  50^;  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and  $2.25. 
If  your  druggist  hasn't  any,  ask  him  to  get  some 
for  you— or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 
Free  Illustrated  Booklet  of  Intimate  Facts.  Write 
Chichester  Chemical  Co.,  Dept.  14S  Phila.  46,  Pa. 


79 


DO  YOU  NEED 

EXTRA  MONEY? 

40.00 

IS     YOURS 

for  selling  only  50  boxes  of 

our  300  greeting  card  line. 

And  this  can  be  done  in  a 

single  day.  Mail  coupon  below 

for  your  free  box  and  other  leading 

box  assortments  on  approval. 

|  It  costs  you  nothing  to  try 


Last  year  soma  folks  mads 
S250-S500-S  1,000  and  mora 
this  very  way.  Church  groups 
and  organizations  can  do  this, 
too.  No  experience  necessary. 


COLONIAL  STUDIOS,  INC.,  Dtpl.  m.  white  Plains.  Now  York 

rm  Mail  This  Coupon  Today  .  _ 
(Only  One  Free  Box  Offer  To  A  Family) 


BO 


My) 

COLONIAL    STUDIOS,    INC. 

Dept.  20-C,    White  Plains,  New  York 

Please  rush  FREE  Box,  together  with  other  boxes 
On  Approval  for  FREE  TRIAL  and  details  of  your 
money-making  plan.  I  really  want  to  make  extra 
money  In  my  spare  time  this  easy  way. 


Name. 


City 

If  writing  lor  organ- 
ization, give  Its  name. 


_State. 


One,  Lux  Video  Theater,  Schlitz  Playhouse 
and  so  on.  .  .  . 

"But,  if  I  had  to  be  typed,  I  prefer  it  to 
be  in  the  person  and  character  of  Michael 
Forsyth — who  has  become,  in  effect,  my 
'alter  ego,'  my  other  self.  Besides,  I  like 
the  fellow!  Like  him,  and  understand  him, 
despite  the  fact  that  we  have  many  dis- 
similarities in  both  character  and  experi- 
ence. He  was  born  in  Chicago,  about 
thirty-five  years  ago,  and  I — born  in  Lon- 
don, England,  January  30,  1911 — am  eight 
years  his  senior. 

"He  is  in  love  and  I,  as  of  this  instant, 
am  not.  He  wants  to  marry  Ellen  Brown, 
and  his  wish  to  be  married  I  do  share  and 
understand,  in  spite  of  being  something  of 
the  'confirmed  bachelor'.  If  or  when  I 
marry,  I  would  prefer  the  girl  I  marry  to 
be  a  career  woman. 

"Forsyth  is  a  businessman,  the  'executive 
type';  and  here  we  are  radically  unalike,  for 
I  am  not  remotely  the  businessman  type. 
I  try  to  be,  but  I  don't  succeed  very  well. 
Investments,  'deals,'  contracts,  income  tax 
returns,  stocks,  bonds,  'interest  on  your 
money,'  and  such  are  so  much  meaning- 
less jargon  to  me.  As  for  my  being  the 
'executive  type,'  that  is  clearly — and  in 
one   word — laughable! 

"The  bookish  type  is  a  more  apt  descrip- 
tion of  me,  I'm  afraid.  The  browser  fits 
me,  too.  Always  browsing  about,  as  I  am, 
in  bookstores  and  antique  shops.  And  I 
certainly  am  a  fellow  with  hobbies.  Cook- 
ing is  one  of  them,  and  always  has  been. 
I  love  to  have  people  in,  cook  for  my 
friends  very  often.  I  bone  up  by  reading 
'gourmet'  cookbooks.  Chicken  Paprika 
is  one  of  my  specialties.  Roast  beef  with 
Yorkshire  pudding,   another.   .   .   . 

"Painting  is  another  of  my  hobbies — 
watercolors  as  well  as  walls!  And  deep- 
sea  fishing,  too,  by  way  of  contrast  (I  enjoy 
rather  violent  contrasts!) — off  the  coast 
of  New  Jersey,  where  I  often  fish — off  Mon- 
tauk  at  the  tip  of  Long  Island,  for  flounder 
and  bass.  However,  driving  my  car — a 
sports  model,  one  of  those  high-powered 
Studebaker  things — is  the  sport  or  hobby 
I  most  enjoy.  I  get  in  my  car  and  go 
for  miles  and  miles  and  miles!  I  like  driving 
out  to  funny  old  country  inns  .  .  .  like 
poking  around  in  little  old  restaurants  in 
the  city,  too,  sampling,  tasting.  .  .  .  None 
of  these  activities,  of  course,  are  guaran- 
teed to  give  me  'interest  on  my  money!' " 
Mr.  Long  laughed. 

X1  orsyth  is  described  in  the  script  as: 
'Handsome,  romantic  leading-man  type.' 
I  don't  know  whether  I'm  handsome  or  not, 
have  never  given  the  matter  much  thought. 
.  .  ."  (Editor's  Note:  Not  "handsome," 
perhaps,  but  he  has  an  interesting  face — 
a  clever  face,  mobile  and  expressive;  dark 
hair,  gray  eyes;  very  much  the  type  one 
reads  about  in  the  better  English  novels.) 
"However,"  Mr.  Long  was  saying,  "I  am 
'romantic'  indeed!  Too  romantic,  at  times, 
for  my  own  good.  Like  Forsyth,  a  little 
of  the  flower-sending  type,  the  rememberer 
of  'the  day  and  the  place  we  first  met,'  'the 
time  and  the  tune  to  which  we  first  danced.' 
Also  like  Forsyth,  the  type  who  truly 
considers  a  woman — especially  a  loved 
woman — and  from  every  angle  .  .  .  her 
comfort,  her  wishes,  her  whims,  her  good. 

"Forsyth  is  wealthy  and  here  is  another 
very  definite  dissimilarity,  for  I  am  not,  and 
never  have  been. 

"I  was  a  poor  little  boy,  very,  very  poor. 
My  parents  (I  was  the  only  child)  were 
extremely  poor.  I  wouldn't  say  I  was  born 
in  a  London  slum,  but  very  near  it.  How- 
ever, my  parents'  circumstances  improved 
after  the  war  and  we  were  able  to  get 
away  from  this  environment.  And,  after 
I  became  an  actor,  I  lived  in  a  flat  over- 
looking the  Thames. 

"Also   unlike  Forsyth — who,   I  am  sure, 


never  entertained  a  notion  of  being  an 
actor — I  have  always  acted,  always.  From 
infancy,  I  dressed  up  in  my  father's  clothes, 
my  mother's  clothes.  So  do  most  kids — but, 
with  me,  it  was  insatiable!  From  my  first 
conscious  memory,  it  was  obvious  to  me 
that  I  would  be  an  actor.  There  was  acting. 
There  was  I.  It  fitted. 

"No  one  in  my  family  history  was  ever 
connected  with  the  theater.  No  one  ever 
took  me  to  the  theater,  or  talked  to  me 
about  it.  Of  course,  since  there  was  no 
money  for  it,  I  could  not  go  to  any  of 
the  good  public  schools  where  I  might 
have  met  others  of  my  age  interested  in 
the  arts,  in  the  theater.  Nor  make  trips 
to  the  Continent.  Nor  even  take  vacations 
to  the  sea. 

"This  very  poverty  of  experience  may 
well  account  for  the  fact  that  I — a  lonely 
child  in  need  of  companionship,  an  imagi- 
native child  in  need  of  food  for  the  im- 
agination— read  a  great  deal  (especially 
Shakespeare),  observed  a  great  deal,  and 
acted  out  all  that  I  read  and  saw  and 
heard.  In  the  varied  and  colorful  roles  I 
played — solo  performances  to  an  'empty 
house' — I  lived  in  dreams  the  rich,  exciting 
and  satisfying  life  I  did  not  live  in  fact.  .  .  . 

Until  one  day,  when  I  was  fourteen,  I 
gave  a  recitation  in  school  (as  Bottom,  I 
remember,  in  'Midsummer  Night's  Dream') 
and  Lady  Benson,  wife  of  Sir  Frank  Ben- 
son, the  great  Shakespearean  actor  and 
head  of  the  Benson  Dramatic  Academy, 
was  there. 

"When  anyone  asks  me,  'Who  was  the 
greatest  influence  in  your  life?'— the  an- 
swer is  'Lady  Benson.'  She  was  a  very 
dear  friend  to  me,  and  gave  me  my  start  by 
arranging  free  tuition  for  me  at  the  Ben- 
son Academy.  Actually,  my  career  started 
with  the  Benson  Academy  and  was  sparked 
by  the  stimulation  and  inspiration  of  work- 
ing under  the  late  Sir  Frank.  It  was  also 
Lady  Benson  who  launched  me  on  my  first 
job — a  whole  season  of  Shakespeare  at 
London's  Savoy  Theater. 

"After  my  season  at  the  Savoy,  I  toured 
with  the  Benson  Shakespearean  Company 
for  several  seasons,  then  played  for  sev- 
eral more  at  the  Old  Vic.  All  my  early 
work  was  done  in  Shakespeare — I  gave 
every  evidence  of  becoming  a  'long-hair' 
actor — usually  in  the  roles  of  his  young 
comedy  characters,  such  as  Launcelot  Gob- 
bo  in  'Merchant  of  Venice,'  Brondello  in 
'Taming  of  the  Shrew,'  and  so  on.  ...  As 
time  passed,  I  passed  into  slightly  more 
mature  roles,  but  still  comedy — and  still 
Shakespeare.  To  this  day,  I  might  be  still 
in  London,  still  in  Shakespeare,  if  it  were 
not  that  my  dream  of  coming  to  America — 
it  was  more  than  a  dream,  it  was  a  com- 
pulsive  urge — took   over.   .   .   . 

"So  when,  a  little  more  than  seven  years 
ago,  I  no  longer  had  any  family  ties  in 
England  (my  parents  having  died),  I  seized 
the  opportunity  to  come  to  America.  .  .  . 

"I  didn't  know  one  single  soul.  I  didn't 
have  one  single  letter  of  introduction.  I 
arrived  here  November  15,  1947.  The  first 
thing  I  did,  immediately  I  landed,  was  go 
to  the  top  of  the  Empire  State.  Building. 
Every  year  since,  on  the  fifteenth  of  No- 
vember, I  go  to  the  top  of  the  Empire 
State,  look  down  and  about  to  see  what 
has  happened  to  the  city — and  to  me — in 
the  past  twelve  months. 

"But  that  first  afternoon — late  afternoon, 
dusk  coming  on — I  was  terrified.  The  size 
of  the  buildings.  These  huge  buildings.  The 
speed.  The  traffic.  The  roar.  The  people. 
The  millions  of  people.  What  will  I  do 
here?  I  thought.  What  can  I  do?  Where 
will  I  find  my  place? 

"It  looked  to  me,  the  stranger,  so  for- 
midable, so  overwhelming.  It  seemed  to  me 
so  callous.  But  only,  as  I  soon  found  out, 
on   the   surface.   For,   after   I   was   settled, 


in  a  little  back  room — very  small,  very 
cold  in  winter,  very  hot  in  summer — I 
walked  up  out  of  the  streets  into  the  offices 
of  agents  and  managers  whose  names 
and  addresses  I  found  in  the  classified 
directory.  And,  within  two  months,  I  had 
my  first  job— with  Deborah  Kerr  and  Mar- 
tita  Hunt  on  the  Theater  Guild  On  The 
Air  production  of  'Mary  of  Scotland.'  Then 
I  did  Cavalcade  Of  America,  on  which  I 
played  Benjamin  Franklin.  And  there- 
after played  Benjamin  Franklin  several 
times.  Whenever  a  producer  needed  Ben- 
jamin Franklin,  he  sent  for  me!  To  be 
wanted  for  the  role*  of  Benjamin  Franklin, 
so  deep  in  the  history  and  in  the  heart 
of  America,  made  me  feel  at  home.     __. 

"There  were  moments  of  very  great 
stress,  however,  in  that  first  year.  Apart 
from  the  shows  I've  mentioned,  I  didn't 
work  very  much.  I'd  put  aside  enough 
from  my  modest  capital  to  get  back  to 
London,  if  need  be.  But,  before  the  year 
was  up,  I'd  got  down  to — and  gone  through 
— the  reserve.  I'd  burned  my  bridges.  I 
really  didn't  mind.  After  the  moment  of 
terror  I  experienced  on  the  day  of  my 
arrival,  I  was  not  afraid.  At  the  age  of 
seventeen,  I  had  become  a  convert  to 
Catholicism  and  I  have  found  my  religion 
fills— and  will  always  and  unfailingly  fill 
— all  my  needs.  Besides,  the  excitement  of 
America,  the  sense  of  adventure  in  the 
very  air  I  breathed,  suited  my  personality. 

"What  didn't  suit  my  personality  or  na- 
ture was  the  waiting,  the  delay.  .  .  .  Unlike 
our  friend  Michael  Forsyth — who  appears 
to  be  a  man  of  admirable  control  and  pa- 
tience— my  worst  fault  is,  without  a  doubt, 
impatience.  I  can't  bear  people  who  are 
not  on  time,  people  who  don't  do  things 
they  say  they're  going  to  do  when  they 
say  they're  going  to  do  them.  The  type 
of  individual  who  says,  'Be  with  you  at 
12  noon' — and  arrives  at  1  P.M.!  I  want, 
above  all,  to  get  things  done,  want  people 
and  events  to  move  quickly.  Want — espe- 
cially career-wise — to  get  there! 

1  am  also  (another  fault)  very  extrava- 
gant. I  like  my  surroundings  to  be  com- 
fortable, charming  and,  yes,  luxurious.  If 
I  had  the  money,  I'd  buy  a  still  more  ex- 
pensive car  than  the  one  I  have.  I'd  buy 
still  more  expensive  furniture.  More  rare 
books.  More  old  rare  silver  and  copper. 

"The  odd,  and  seemingly  contradictory, 
thing  is  that  I  am  not  burningly  ambitious. 
I'm  not  one  of  those  who  torture  them- 
selves because  they  are  not  among  The 
Great.  To  give  pleasure  to  other  people  is, 
I  think,  the  great  thing  and,  after  that, 
the  chips  can  fall  as  and  where  they  will. 
But  what  I  do,  however  modest  it  may  be, 
I  want  to  do  well — and  I  want  to  do  it 
now. 

"Now  I  feel  that  I  am  doing  it,  that  I 
am  moving,  that  things  are  moving  for 
me,  that  there  is  momentum.  For,  after 
that  first  year,  one  contact  led  to  another, 
one  job  to  another.  Things  fell  into  place, 
day  by  day,  as  things  have  a  way  of  doing. 
For  the  part  of  Evans  Baker  on  Love  Of 
Life,  I  didn't  raise  my  little  finger.  Nor 
for  many  of  the  roles  I  played  on  Mystery 
Theater,  Stella  Dallas,  Mr.  Keen,  and  the 
others  I  mentioned. 

"At  the  end  of  that  first  year,  in  fact, 
I  moved  from  my  small  little  room  to  an 
apartment  which  was  larger,  pleasanter, 
higher  up,  then  to  another  still  larger, 
pleasanter  and  higher  up,  and  now,"  said 
Mr.  Long  with  his  eyes  on  the  sky  that 
looks  in  his  windows,  "now  here! 

"I  had  a  hunch — America!"  he  said.  "I 
played  the  hunch,  and  won.  I  had  a  dream 
— America.  The  dream  has  come  true.  I 
believed  that  my  future  was  in  America, 
and  that  a  man  must  follow  his  future. 
I  followed  mine — and,  as  I  believed,  it  is 
here." 


- 


/ 


Send  NOW  .  . . 
Supply  limited/ 


ALDENS  612-PAGE  SPRING  CATALOG 

Lowest  prices/  Easiest  terms/  Best  way  to  shop  there  is! 


It's  FREE  .  .  .  and  only  at  Aldens!  Not  a  loaner, 
no  deposit — this  handsome  big  catalog  is  your 
personal  fashion  guide  to  use  and  enjoy!  Shop 
for  a  lovelier  you  from  over  300  pages  of  fashion 
news  from  Paris,  New  York  and  California! 
Newest  fabrics,  colors,  styles  and  sizes  that  you 
want  .  .  .  exclusively  at  Aldens  .  .  .  priced  so 
low  you'll  be  amazed!  More  than  300  pages  for 
your  family  and  home,  too  .  .  .  quality  wearables 
for  every  age,  from  diapers  to  denim  workwear; 
newest  decorator  fashions  to  sparkle  your  rooms. 
Send  now  for  your  FREE  Spring  Catalog.  Quantity 
limited,  so  hurry!  See  how  you  can  dress  better, 
live  better  for  less  .  .  .  how  you  save  more,  pay 
as  you  use  on  easiest  terms  ...  get  money-back 
satisfaction  when  you  shop  by  catalog  at  Aldens! 


CHICAGO  80, 

ILLINOIS 


•  Over  T60  pages  in  glorious  color/ 

•  No  deposit — your  copy  is  FREE.'* 

•  America's  leading  style  guide/ 

•  Lowest  prices  guaranteed  always/ 


PASTE  TO  POST  CARD. ..MAIL  NOW 


ALDENS,  Dept.4  OC.  Box  8340A,  Chicago  80,  III.      « 
Please  rush  my  FREE  Aldens  big  Spring  Catalog. 


Print  NAME 


I 


Print  ADDRESS  or  R.F.D.  NO. 


Print  POST  OFFICE  (town) 


STATE 


fJIlllHltHHiHH 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
r\  ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
,  \  instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for^ 
I  \  previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 
I   1  Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL   Catalog  HH-21 
2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois y 


fwidttx, 


LIPS  SORE? 


BEST  FOR 

COLD 
MOfiES 


POCKET  SIZE 

39c 


EfiSSj, 


New  Soft  Plastic 
Holds  Plates  Tighter 

Eases  Sore  Gums! 


Complete  set  of  two  cushions  for  both 
uppers  and  lowers  $1.50. 


Accept  no  substitutes  for  new  Snug  — 
the  only  lasting  soft  plastic  denture 
cushion. 


Cushions  the  mouth  yet  grips 
plates  like  "Living  Tissue" 

Now,  quickly  stop  pain  and  trouble  due  to  loose 
fitting  plates  with  new  SNUG  Denture  Cushions. 
Amazing  soft  plastic  grips  plate  firm  and  tight  yet 
feels  soft  and  comfortable,  like  "Living  Tissue". 
Gums  feel  wonderful.  You  eat,  talk,  laugh  in  com- 
fort. SNUG  stays  cushion-soft.  Can't  harden  and 
ruin  plate.  Peels  right  out  when  ready  to  replace. 
Tasteless,  odorless,  cleaned  in  a  jiffy.  No  more  daily 
bother  with  "stickums."  Get  Denture  Cushions 
called  SNUG  and  do  away  with  your  plate  troubles. 
Money-back  if  not  satisfied.  At  all  druggists.  If 
your  druggist  cannot  supply  you,  send  $1.50  check 
or  money  order  to  Midland  Pharmacal  Corp.,  Dept. 
23,  76  Ninth  Ave.,  New  York  11,  N.  Y. 


81 


^Mtwdheds  off 

CUTICURA  CLEARS 
BAD  COMPLEXION 

m 


YOU  CAN  have 
smoother,  lovelier 
skin  whether  you 
are  13  or  way  past 
30  —  by  scientific 
care  with  Cuticura 
Soap  and  Ointment. 

SKIN  CLEARED-IN  7  DAYS!  Unsightly 
blackheads,  externally  caused 
pimples,  flaky  dryness,  oily  shine 
are  relieved  in  record  time. 

SEE  NEW  LOVELINESS!  Cuticura 
Soap— alone  of  all  leading  soaps 
—is  superfatted  to  maintain  the 
natural  moisture  and  normal, 
healthy  acidity  of  the  skin.  And 
Cuticura  Ointment  softens  as  it 
helps  heal.  Buy  Cuticura  today. 

SEND  FOR  FREE  SOAP  sample  and 
leaflet  on  correct  way  to  wash 
your  face.  Write  Cuticura,  Dept. 
TS-25,  Maiden  48,  Mass. 

(jiticura 


SELL  DRESSES 


NEW  YORK 


/a  dreHH  shop  In  your  home!  Fstablinhed  New 
York  firm  desires  ambitious  women  to  sell 
dresses,  suits,  featuring  the  newest  New  York  look  Kx- 
perlence  unnecessary.  Good  commissions.  Free  dresses  to 
wear  as  bonus.  No  Investment  Write  for  sample  book 
BELLECRAFT  FASHIONS,  111  Eighth  Ave.,  Dept.  TS-2,  N  Y. 

Housework 
Easy  Without 
Nagging  Backache 

Nagging  backache,  loss  of  pep  and  energy,  head- 
aches and  dizziness  may  be  due  to  slowdown  of  kidney 
function.  Doctors  say  Kood  kidney  function  is  very 
important  to  (food  health.  When  some  everyday  con- 
dition,  such  as  stress  and  strain,  causes  this  im- 
portanl  function  to  stow  down,  many  folks  suffer 
nagging   backache— feel  miserable.   Minor  bladder 

■j        Irritati  to  cold  or  wrong  diet  may  cause 

Betting  up  nights  or  frequent  passages. 

Don!    neglect  your  kidneys  if  these  conditions 

I  bother  you.  Try  Doan's  Pills— a  mild  diuretic.  Used 

successfully  by  millions  for  over  60  years.  It'samaz- 

inK  how  many  times  Doan's  (five  happy  relief  from 

the'  rts— help  the  IB  miles  of  kidney  tubes 

,  and  filters  flush  out  waste.  Get  Doan's  Pills  todayl 


The  First  Little  Godfrey 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
credit,"  Jan  repeats.    "That's  an  awful  lot 
of  work,  getting  a  house  completely  fur- 
nished  in   only   three   months." 

What  was  the  rush?  Well,  Jan  had  in- 
vited her  parents  and  four  of  her  brothers 
and  sisters  to  New  York  for  Christmas 
and  she  wanted  to  be  ready  for  them. 

"You  know  my  apartment  is  small,"  she 
says,  "and  it  used  to  break  my  heart  to 
have  them  come  all  the  way  in  from 
Arkansas  and  then  be  put  up  at  a  hotel." 

Although  she  has  been  working  away 
from  home  since  her  teens,  Jan  has  always 
been  close  to  her  family.  The  year  before 
she  bought  the  house,  her  sister  Carolyn 
came  to  New  York  City  for  a  visit.  Carol 
liked  New  York  and  wanted  to  stay,  so 
Jan  sent  her  back  to  Pine  Bluff  just  long 
enough  to  take  a  business  course.  Then 
Carol  came  back  and  has  since  acted  as 
Jan's  personal  secretary. 

"People  ask  me  how  it  feels  to  be  the 
sister  of  a  celebrity,"  Carol  says.  "I  tell 
them  Jan  has  always  been  the  star  of  our 
family,  even  though  we  all  respect  each 
other  equally." 

The  two  sisters  have  been  living  together 
for  years  now.  They  get  along  famously. 
They  have  learned  to  compensate  for  each 
other's  moods,  get  problems  talked  out, 
and  laugh  at  the  right  time.  They  still 
have  long  gab  sessions  profitably  spent  an- 
alyzing their  dates.  "For  example,"  Jan 
says,  grinning,  "the  subject  might  be, 
'How  independent  can  a  woman  afford  to 
be?' " 

From  Sunday  evening  to  Friday  after- 
noon, they  live  in  Manhattan.  In  the  early 
morning,  Carol  gets  breakfast  going  while 
Jan  dresses.  Jan  allows  herself  a  couple 
of  hours  to  make  ready  for  the  cameras, 
for  she  has  always  done  her  own  grooming, 
hair-dressing  and  manicuring.  About  nine, 
she  leaves  the  apartment  and  Carol  takes 
over  Jan's  mail,  does  the  shopping  and  re- 
lieves Jan  of  many  housekeeping  tasks. 
And,  of  course,  Carol  takes  Honey  out 
for  her  morning  constitutional.  (Honey  is 
a  handsome  toy  French  poodle  that  Jan 
is  extremely  fond  of.  "I  just  looked 
and  said,  'honey,'  and  the  name  stuck." 
Carol  is  equally  fond  of  the  pup  and  is  in 
charge  most  of  the  time,  because  Jan  is 
so  often  and  so  long  at  the  studios.) 

"Carol  is  too  considerate,"  Jan  says.  "She 


may  have  a  Saturday-night  date  that  will 
keep  her  in  Manhattan  but,  if  she  discov- 
ers that  I'm  going  to  be  alone  in  the  house, 
something  always  happens  to  cancel  her 
date." 

From  Monday  morning  till  Friday  after- 
noon, Jan  leads  a  disciplined  life.  She  is 
up  every  morning  at  seven  and  at  work  in 
the  studio  by  nine-thirty.  Except  for 
Wednesday  night,  she  is  usually  home 
about  six  in  the  evening.  She  and  Carol 
have  a  meat-and-salad  dinner,  play  some 
gin  rummy,  Scrabble  or  watch  television, 
and  by  eleven  Jan  is  in  bed. 

"There's  no  letting  down  for  Jan  until 
the  weekend,"  Carol  says,  "and  then  it's 
like  an   altogether  new  life." 

Friday  afternoon,  with  Carol  and  Honey, 
Jan  drives  out  to  the  house.  Everything  is 
ready  for  Jan  when  she  gets  there.  She  em- 
ploys a  couple,  Thomas  and  Iza,  to  run  the 
house.  Their  loyalty  and  interest,  Jan  feels, 
have  helped  to  make  her  house  a  home. 

"I  don't  do  a  lick  of  work,"  Jan  says. 
"I  get  there  and  I  just  enjoy  the  house." 

Jan's  house  contributes  to  a  relaxed 
weekend.  The  living-dining  room  sets  the 
mood  for  the  house.  The  room  is  about 
fifty  feet  long  and  twenty  feet  wide.  One 
wall  is  practically  all  glass,  and  there  hangs 
a  dramatic  floor-to-ceiling  drape  consisting 
of  some  eighty-eight  feet  of  material.  It  is 
a  rich,  heavy  fabric  with  deep-red  and 
black  geometrical  figures  on  green  pastel. 

"The  squiggly  lines  kind  of  remind  me 
of  a  television  set  out  of  focus,"  Jan  laughs. 

The  two  great  chairs  by  the  fireplace 
are  white  with  deep  coral  stitching.  The 
carpeting  is  deep-green.  The  fireplace,  pan- 
eled by  mirrors,  is  black  tile.  And  then, 
although  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  the 
color  scheme,  there  is  a  fine  Steinway.  It's 
a  fifty-year-old,  imported  concert  grand. 

Jan  has  studied  piano  since  she  was  a 
child.  Once  in  a  while,  she  plays  on  the 
show  with  Arthur.  At  home,  she  plays  for 
herself. 

"I'm  seasonal,"  she  explains.  "For  the 
summer,  it's  light  music.  In  the  winter,  I 
like  my  chords  lush." 

Her  bedroom  is  not  exceptionally  femi- 
nine. She  always  wanted  a  large  bed  and 
so  got  herself  one  six  by  seven  feet.  Since 
Jan  is  exactly  five  feet,  three  and  three- 
quarters  inches  tall,  she  gets  a  real  spa- 
cious feeling.  She  has  used  woven -textured 


Dream  of  Love  Came  True! 

Dreams— real-life  hopes  for  love  and  happiness— do 
come  frue  on  radio's  "My  True  Story."  For  this 
stirring  dramatic  program  presents  real  people  .  ..  ,. 
people  like  you,  your  family,  your  friends.  And  the 
heart-rending  emotional  difficulties  they  have  to 
overcome  to  find  contentment  are  those  that  so  many 
of  us  are  facing  today.  So  listen  to  these  intense 
human  dramas  of  hope  and  fear,  jealousy  and  love 
—each  one  a  thrilling  real-life  story  from  the 
files  of  "True  Story  Magazine." 
TUNE  IN 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

AMERICAN  BROADCASTING  STATIONS 

Read  "COME-ON  GIRL" — the  emotion-charged  story  of  a  teenager  who  nearly  destroyed  herself 
attempting  to  hurt  her  mother— in  February  TRUE  STORY  MAGAZINE  at  newsstands  now. 


wallpaper,  and  there  are  three  big  chests 
of  drawers  with  a  mirrored  wall  above. 
Her  windows  face  out  on  the  woods. 

Next  to  Jan's  room  is  the  guest  room 
with  twin  beds,  papered  in  pale  yellow, 
with  drapes  and  bedspreads  of  orchid. 
There  was  once  a  third  bedroom,  but  Jan 
converted  it  into  a  den.  Here  in  a  hand- 
some, cozy  paneled  room,  she  has  a  TV 
receiver,  floor-to-ceiling  bookcases,  her 
phonograph  and  desk. 

"And,  naturally,  the  smallest  room  in  the 
house  is  the  favorite  of  my  friends." 

Her  house  guests  have  included  her  old 
Chicago  friend,  Fran  Allison,  and  Haleloke 
and  Dottie  Kendrick  and  her  husband 
Maxie.  Jan's  parents  and  her  brothers  and 
sisters  and  her  nephews  and  niece  have 
visited  during  vacations  and  holidays. 

Jan  is  a  favorite  with  her  four  nephews 
and  one  niece.  She  always  remembers  them 
with  gifts  when  she  is  traveling.  She  is  the 
number-one  volunteer  baby-sitter  when 
they  are  visiting  her.  And  she's  fun,  be- 
cause she  likes  games — and  that  goes  for 
the  adult  kind,  too.  Saturday  evening, 
when  she  has  guests,  there  is  always  some- 
thing going,  bridge  or  gin  rummy  or 
charades. 

"Trouble  with  Jan's  parties  is  that  they 
are  always  twice  as  big  as  planned,"  Carol 
says.  "Jan  will  prepare  for  sixteen  and 
then  invite  thirty." 

Jan  is  big-hearted  and  warm-hearted, 
and  this  often  causes  her  inconveniences. 
For  example,  Jan  gives  her  clothes  a  hard 
run,  with  so  many  television  appearances, 
so  she  must  shop  frequently.  And  the  only 
day  she  has  free  is  Saturday. 

"If  she  goes  out  on  a  Saturday  after- 
noon, she's  got  to  accomplish  something," 
Carol  explains,  "for  she  can't  get  the  time 
to  do  it  again  for  another  week." 

But  a  stranger  can  stop  Jan  for  ten 
minutes  to  an  hour.  A  woman  will  come 
up  to  her  and  express  admiration  for  the 
Godfrey  show.  Jan,  instead  of  merely  say- 
ing thank  you  and  giving  her  a  polite 
brush-off,  will  stand  or  sit  for  a  visit. 

"This  happens  so  much,"  Carol  says, 
"and  then  Jan  complains  that  she  doesn't 
know  where  the  time  goes." 

There  are  little  stories  to  be  picked  up 
around  the  Godfrey  office  of  Jan's  unpub- 
licized  generosity.  Jan  cannot  accept  wor- 
ship from  fans  and  kindness  from  col- 
leagues as  her  due.  She  must  show  her 
appreciation  in  word  and,  often,  deeds. 

"Well,  I  stick  my  chin  out,"  she  says. 
"I  believe  in  people,  and  I'll  take  a  chance. 
Suppose  they  prove  you're  wrong?  Sup- 
pose they  prove  to  be  phonies?  You  haven't 
lost  anything,  except  for  a  little  hurt." 

Jan  has  learned,  in  her  association  with 
Arthur  Godfrey,  the  worth  of  trust.  When 
Arthur  first  heard  Jan,  she  was  a  CBS 
staff  singer.  She  wasn't  a  "nobody"  by  any 
means.  She  was  recording,  and  she  had 
previously  been  earning  as  much  as  $650  a 
week  in  Chicago.  But  Arthur  was  to  take 
her  up  the  few  remaining  and  high  steps 
to  national  stardom. 

"It  was  the  greatest  thing  that  ever 
happened  to  me,"  she  says.  "Arthur  be- 
lieved in  me." 

No  one  can  doubt  that  Jan's  a  trouper. 
She's  constantly  proving  it. 

Recently,  a  woman  met  Jan  for  the  first 
time  and  was  moved  to  say,  "You're  even 
prettier  in  person  than  on  television." 

Jan,  who  should  have  been  flattered,  said, 
"If  I  had  my  way,  it  would  be  reversed." 

But  the  woman  was  right.  Black-and- 
white  television  can't  do  justice  to  the 
deep  brown  of  her  eyes  and  the  coloring  of 
her  hair.  Jan  has  warmth  and  radiance 
that  is  just  too  subtle  for  an  electronic  eye. 
But  not  for  the  understanding  hearts  of 
those  who  hear  and  see  her — and  who  will 
always  love  the  first  Little  Godfrey. 


<E& 


ALL  YOUR  HEART  DESIRES 


Over  300,000  women  have  received  luxuries,  conveniences 
and  necessities  for  their  homes  this  easy  way — without 
money!  You  select  what  you  want  from  our  catalog 
showing  hundreds  of  well-known  "name-brand" 
products  as  a  reward  for  introducing  a  few  friends 
or  relatives  to  the  famous  SIGNET  CLUB  PLAN. 
You  help  them,   because  they  get  EXTRA 
VALUE  without  extra   cost  with   FREE 
Premiums.   It's  really  easy,   no  ex- 
perience necessary.  Send  Coupon 
today  for  new  1955  Catalog. 
No  obligation.  ACT  NOW! 


tm 


PASTE  THIS 
COUPON  ON  BACK 
OF  POSTCARD 
AND  MAIL. 


Mail  Coupon  below 
today. 


SIGNET  CLUB  PLAN  C-ll 

265  Third  St.,  Cambridge  42,  Mass. 

Please  send  me  your  beautiful  1955  catalog  FREE,  together  with  full 
information  on  how  I  can  easily  get  $72  (or  more)  worth  of  nationally- 
famous  merchandise,  without  cost. 

NAME 

STREET  AND  NO 

TOWN ZONE STATE 

We  serve  East  of  Mississippi  River  only. 


Prepare  now  for  a  well-paid  career. 
Learn  chairside  and  reception  tech- 
nique. X-ray,  lab,  personality  develop- 
ment. Simplified,  personal  instruction.  If 
you  are  between  17  and  50,  you  can  begin 
in  spare  time  at  home  and  shorten  class- 
work.  Write  now  for  FREE  booklet. 

WAYNE   SCHOOL       Lab.  1-9 

2521  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  III. 


Nasal     Congestion     Associated     With     Head 
Colds  May  Cause  Symptoms  Of 

SINUS 

ASTHMA,  HAY  FEVER. 
Amazing     New     Treatment  —  FREE     TRIAL 

Thousands  have  received  amazing,  fast  relief  with  this 
sensational,  new  treatment,  from  symptoms  of  hay 
fever,  asthma,  sinus  headaches,  pressure  in  forehead, 
soreness  in  eyes,  cheek  bones,  top  of  head,  back  of 
head  and  down  neck,  when  caused  by  nasal  congestion. 
Write  for  7  DAY  FREE  TRIAL,  POSTPAID,  no  cost  or 
obligation  to  try  it  except;  it  is  agreed  you  will  mail  it 
back,  postpaid  at  end  of  trial  period  if  not  amazed 
with  results. 

National  Laboratories,  Dept.  S52,  Gait,  Calif. 

Offer  not  good  in  California. 


Dept.  592 


Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 


NEW   EYE   GLAMOUR 


ARTIFICIAL  EYELASHES— Absolutely  natural-looking 
lashes  that  give  you  GORGEOUS  EYES  instantly. 
Exotic!  Glamorous!  Simple,  easy  ...  put  on  in  S  sec 
onds  ...  can  be  used  over  and  over  again.  In  compact- 
like purse-size  case. 
Black  or  Brown 

10  DAY  TRIAL  FREE!  Order  today  at  our  risk.  If  not  com- 
pletely satisfied  return  the  eyelashes  after  10  days' 
trial  for  full  refund. 

HONOR   HOUSE    PRODUCTS   CORP. 

Dept.    E-781,     LYN  BROOK.     N.     Y. 


only  $1 


BE  YOURSELF  AGAIN! 

RELAX! 

When  you  feel  nervous  and  "on-edge"  during 
the  day,  MILES  NERVINE  calms  you  .  .  . 
helps  you  feel  relaxed.  Taken  at  night,  MILES 
NERVINE  LETS  you  sleep;  doesn't  MAKE 
you  sleep!  That's  why  you  feel  fresher,  more 
rested  next  day.  Follow  the  label,  avoid  excessive 
use.  MILES  NERVINE  is  sold  at  all  drug- 
stores, effervescent  tablets  and  liquid. 


83 


Replies  From  Survey  Reveal: 

9  DOT  OF  1© 

NURSES 

suwrDOUCHINfiMN 

ZONITE 

FDR  FEMININE  HYGIENE 


84 


What  Greater  Assurance  Can  a 
Bride-to-be  or  Married  Woman  Have 

Women  who  value  true  married  happi- 
ness and  physical  charm  know  how 
essential  a  cleansing,  antiseptic  and  de- 
odorizing douche  is  for  intimate  femi- 
nine cleanliness  and  after  monthly 
periods. 

Douching  has  become  such  a  part  of 
the  modern  way  of  life  an  additional 
survey  showed  that  of  the  married 
women  who  replied: 

83.3%  douche  after  monthly  periods. 
86.5%  at  other  times. 
So  many  women  are  benefiting  by  this 
sanitary  practice — why  deny  yourself? 
What  greater  "peace  of  mind"  can  a 
woman  have  than  to  know  zonite  is  so 
highly  regarded  among  nurses  for  the 
douche? 

ZONITE's  Many  Advantages 

Scientific  tests  proved  no  other  type 
liquid  antiseptic-germicide  for  the 
douche  of  all  those  tested  is  so  power- 
fully effective  yet  safe  to  body 
tissues  as  zonite.  It's  positively  non- 
poisonous,  non-irritating.  You  can  use 
zonite  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A 
zonite  douche  immediately 
washes  away  odor-causing 
deposits.  It  completely  de- 
odorizes. Leaves  you  with  a 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence.  Inexpensive.  Costs 
only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 

ZONITE— The  Ideal  "ALL-PURPOSE" 
Antiseptic-Germicide 


Heaven  in  Her  Hands 


{Continued  from  page  36) 
ahead  of  his  scheduled  personal  appear- 
ance. So,  on  the  morning  of  September 
16th,  Eve's  obstetrician  said  she  might 
as  well  ease  over  to  the  hospital — if  Eve 
didn't  mind  a  long  wait. 

"I  minded  very  much,"  muses  Eve  in 
inimitable  fashion.  "You  see,  besides  the 
dog,  cat,  ducks,  chickens,  horses  and 
sheep  on  our  ranch  in  Hidden  Valley, 
we  also  have  a  pair  of  rabbits.  Now  this 
congenial  twosome,  not  to  be  outdone  by 
mere  man,  were  the  proud  parents  of 
nineteen  little  bundles  of  fur-bearing  joy. 
And  I  was  determined  to  find  happy 
homes  for  them  before  settling  down  to 
increasing    the    population    myself." 

So  Eve,  the  super-saleswoman,  devoted 
the  entire  day  to  delivering  bunny  bun- 
dles to  their  new  lords  and  masters.  Tired 
but  triumphant,  she  returned  to  their 
home  in  the  Hollywood  Outposts  Estates. 

"Now,  dear,  don't  you  think  we'd  bet- 
ter leave  for  the  hospital?"  Only  an  ex- 
pectant father  like  Brooks  West  could 
have  projected  such  anxiety  into  a  hu- 
man  voice. 

"Really,  honey,  there's  plenty  of  time," 
answered  Eve,  with  the  quiet  aplomb  of 
a  veteran.  But  she  tucked  her  three 
adopted  adorables  in  bed,  gave  a  few  last- 
minute  instructions  to  their  nurse  and 
cook.  With  a  huge  sigh  of  relief,  Brooks 
started  their  car  down  the  hill.  Why  he 
chose  that  particular  street  this  particular 
night,  he  will  never  know! 

Suddenly  they  were  passing  a  drive-in 
theater  and,  just  as  suddenly,  Eve  was 
tugging   on   her   husband's   coat   sleeve. 

"Oh,  Brooks!"  she  exclaimed.  "They're 
running  'Dragnet'  and  I've  been  dying  to 
see  it.  Let's  go  in — there  really  is  plenty 
of  time!" 

So  now  you  know  how  Sergeant  Joe 
(Jack  Webb)  Friday  played  such  an  im- 
portant part  in  the  most  important  event 
of  Eve  Arden's  exemplary  life.  Never  in 
the  history  of  maternity  wards  was  any 
father-to-be  so  happy  and  relieved  as 
Brooks  West  when  you-know-who 
checked  in!  He  stayed  with  Eve  until 
eleven.  Then,  having  been  assured  that 
the  main  event  was  still  in  the  prelim- 
inary stage,  Brooks  went  home  for  some 
sleep. 

x  romptly  at  five,  the  following  morn- 
ing, Douglas  Brooks  West  weighed  in 
at  9  pounds,  4  ounces.  A  few  minutes 
later,  Brooks — with  that  this-is-it  look 
in  his  anxious  eyes — settled  himself  un- 
comfortably in  the  father's  waiting  room. 
Before  he  could  even  mouth  an  inquiry, 
a  male  attendant  came  beaming  by. 

"Mr.  West,"  he  announced,  "Mrs.  West 
has  a  beautiful  baby!"  Brooks  felt  his 
knees  turning  to  jelly. 

"How's  my  wife?"  he   quickly   asked. 

"I'm  sorry,  you'll  have  to  ask  the  doctor." 

"But  is  it  a  boy  or  a  girl?" 

"I'm  sorry,  you'll  have  to  ask  the  doctor." 

There  followed  thirty  of  the  longest 
minutes  in  any  man's  life — and  then  a 
nurse  came  out  carrying  his  son.  Brooks 
took  the  usual  inventory,  but  he  still 
can't  quite  remember  how  he  got  to  Eve's 
bedside.  But  there  he  was  and,  still  in  the 
vapors,  Eve  squinted  up  at  him  as  she  an- 
nounced   majestically:     "I    had    a    baby!" 

The  birth  of  her  first-born  is  the 
crowning  event  in  Eve's  personal  life,  a 
life  that  once  lacked  purpose  and  a  cen- 
tral point  of  interest.  For  years  before  and 
after  an  unsuccessful  first  marriage,  Eve 
wondered  what  she  really  wanted.  Until 
Brooks  West  came  along,  she  continued 
to   search   for  it. 

"I've  always  loved  children,"  says  Eve. 
"While  the  other  little  girls  in  Mill  Val- 


ley, where  I  lived,  used  to  play  with 
dolls,  I  rounded  up  the  neighborhood 
kids,  combed  their  hair,  scrubbed  them 
until  they  sparkled  and  found  it  much 
more  fascinating.  My  adopted  children 
are  a  blessed  comfort,  but  I've  always 
hoped  I  would  have  a  child  of  my  own 
someday.  When  it  looked  like  it  would 
never  happen,  I  must  confess  at  moments 
my  heart  sank. 

"Today  I  am  completely  convinced  there 
is  a  right  time  for  everything.  Psycho- 
logically it  was  the  right  time  for  me  to 
have  a  baby,  because  at  long  last  I  felt 
secure.  Mentally,  emotionally  and  finan- 
cially secure.  With  gratitude  I  could 
reach  out  and  feel  I  belonged  to  some- 
thing— to  someone.  It  used  to  amuse  me 
that,  because  of  parts  I  played,  people 
associated  me  with  serenity  and  complete 
self-assurance.  I  wish  it  had  been  true." 

©peaking  of  truth,  it's  ironic  that  Eve 
was  voted  the  best  comedienne  on  tele- 
vision last  year,  then  criticized  for  not 
being  on  hand  to  accept  her  Emmy.  She 
had  been  feeling  rather  ill  for  weeks. 
Finally,  the  day  before  the  banquet,  the 
doctor  sent  Eve  to  bed — after  confirming 
that  her  own  little  award-winner  was  on 
the  way!  Such  sacred  news  was  much  too 
precious  to  announce  immediately.  As 
a  matter  of  fact,  she  and  Brooks  were 
still  stunned,  sitting  there  at  home  in  front 
of  their  television  set  watching  the  Emmy 
awards    being    distributed. 

When  her  name  was  announced,  Eve 
started  to  blubber  while  Brooks  dashed 
to  the  bar  and  opened  some  champagne. 

"To  heck  with  keeping  our  secret," 
they  toasted  each  other.  "It's  such  a  won- 
derful night  for  good  news,  let's  call  up 
a  few  friends  and  tell  them  about  the 
baby!" 

The  "few"  friends  turned  out  to  be  a 
few  dozen!  Then,  when  the  story  broke 
in  every  paper,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Future 
Parents  held  a  small  family  conference 
at  the  breakfast  table.  While  little  Dun- 
can was  still  too  young  to  understand, 
Connie  was  seven,  Liza  was  nine — all 
three  are  now  legally  adopted  by  Brooks 
— and  there  was  always  a  possibility  of 
kids  at  school  finding  out  and  saying 
something.  Fortunately,  the  Wests  had 
just  bought  the  farm  where  they  spend 
every  weekend.  It  seemed  like  an  ideal 
time  to  tell  the  children  a  new  baby  was 
on  the  way.  Eyes  wide  with  wonder, 
they  all  but  suffocated  their  mother. 

."A  baby  goat — or  a  baby  horse?"  they 
exclaimed    breathlessly. 

Facing  the  truth  has  always  been  one 
of  Eve  Arden's  major  accomplishments. 
Her  children  knew  they  were  adored  and 
adopted  as  soon  as  they  were  old  enough 
to  understand.  Her  friends  and  co- 
workers give  loving  loyalty  to  Eve  be- 
cause they  always  know  how  they  stand 
with  her.  So  now  Eve  knew  the  time  was 
at  hand  for  the  truth  about  babies.  Con- 
nie and  Liza  listened  intently,  but  seemed 
singularly  unimpressed — until  they  learned 
their  mother  was  actually  carrying  the 
new  baby  herself. 

Finally,  Connie  could  no  longer  retain 
her  curiosity.  "Tell  me  Mommy,"  she 
lisped,   "ith   it  dwethed?" 

"From  that  moment  on,"  says  Eve,  "no 
adjustment  was  needed.  We  stayed  close 
to  nature  on  the  ranch  all  summer.  The 
children  saw  animals  being  born  and,  by 
the  time  Douglas  arrived,  the  idea  of  a 
new  baby  was  old-hat  to  them.  They  just 
joyfully  accepted  him  and  Duncan  poked 
a  loving  finger  in  Douglas'  eye!  I  think 
children  respond  beautifully  if  you  ex- 
plain things,  remain  tolerant  and  patient 
and    give   them   love.   I   love   all   of   mine 


with  equal  intensity.  Sometimes,  when 
I  look  at  my  brood,  I  feel  like  I'm  living 
in  sort  of  a  domestic  paradise.  I  now  have 
everything  a  woman  could  want — every- 
thing!" 

Four  hours  following  their  blessed 
event,  Brooks  defied  hospital  procedure 
and  flashed  a  stereo  third-dimension  shot 
of  his  son  through  the  nursery  window. 
Eve  just  happens  to  have  it  in  her  hand- 
bag wherever  she  goes.  Ask  her  how 
the  baby  is — she  hands  you  a  box  slide- 
viewer  and  you  see  for  yourself.  You 
also  see  a  few  dozen  "extras"  she  hap- 
pens to   have   along,   too. 

Fans,  friends,  nurses,  doctors,  interns 
— all  poured  in  and  out  of  Eve's  hospital 
room.  Flowers,  telegrams  and  endless  gifts 
practically  engulfed  the  year's  most  popu- 
lar mother.  Even  a  group  of  school  teach- 
ers from  the  Middle  West  sent  a  year's 
subscription  to  a  diaper  service! 

And,  of  course — quicker  than  you  can 
say  "it's  a  boy" — newspapers  all  over 
the  country  were  clamoring  for  pictures 
of  Our  Miss  Brooks'  newest  "pupil." 

"I'm  sorry,"  explained  the  new  mother. 
"You  see,  the  baby's  formula  isn't  agree- 
ing with  him,  he  has  a  slight  rash  on  his 
face,  and  I'm  afraid  you'll  have  to  wait 
a  few  days." 

So  what's  with  a  little  rash?  eager- 
beaver  editors  rejoined.  All  they  had  to 
do  was  take  the  pictures  and  retouch  the 
negatives. 

"Retouch  my  baby?  Never!"  exclaimed 
Eve  with  righteous  indignation.  And  then 
she  started  to  smile,  that  glowing,  friendly 
smile  which  has  become  a  visible  symbol 
of  her  new-found  happiness. 

"Okay,"  she  acquiesced  humorously, 
"come  on  out  and  take  my  baby's  picture 
— but  be  sure  and  bring  a  make-up  man 
with  you!" 


Wally  Cox 


(Continued  from  page  68) 
Bobby  and  Johnny  Appleseed,  two  chil- 
dren's classics  that  still  bring  in  royalties 
after  forty  years.  George  Cox,  his  father, 
was  a  copywriter.  Elinor  Blake,  his 
mother,  wrote  five  novels  and  three  mys- 
tery stories,  in  addition  to  her  professional 
assignments.  And  Dorothy  Blake,  his 
aunt,  was  editor  of  Woman's  Day. 

But  in  1942,  it  might  have  been  Peepers 
himself  who  enrolled  in  a  botany  course  at 
the  City  College  of  New  York.  The  draft 
intervened,  however,  and  Wally  was  sent 
to  Camp  Wolters,  Texas.  His  career  in  the 
Army  lasted  exactly  three  months  and 
twenty-one  days.  On  a  march,  he  suffered 
a  heat  stroke  and  was  given  a  discharge. 

And,  just  as  the  Army  separates  the  men 
from  the  boys,  so  it  separated  Cox  from 
Peepers.  A  physical  defeat  wouldn't  mat- 
ter to  a  future  schoolteacher.  As  a  scholar, 
Peepers  would  be  more  concerned  about 
brain  capacity  than  the  size  of  muscles. 
But,  to  Wally,  it  was  a  challenge.  He  be- 
gan to  "indulge  in  vigorous  exercise — row- 
ing a  boat  or  chopping  wood."  It  was  the 
triumph  of  will-power  over  an  inherent 
lack  of  energy. 

But  what  happened  at  Camp  Wolters 
went  deeper  than  muscles.  As  a  boy, 
Wally  had  stood  on  the  sidelines,  watching 
the  bigger  boys  at  their  games.  In  the 
Army,  however,  there  had  been  no  side- 
lines. For  the  first  time,  he  had  partici- 
pated— and  the  taste  of  life  was  roughly 
sweet.  Sharing  the  simple  gripes  and  joys 
of  other  men,  he  had  found  reality  more 
exciting  than  any  books.  Natural  science 
had  been  a  lonely  business  of  watching 
other  things  grow.  Now  he  himself  wanted 
io  grow.  He  might  not  be  as  physical  as 
other  men,  but  he  had  a  mind.  He  could 
study  the  science  of  human  relations. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR 

EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


for  advertiiing  rales,  write  to  William  ft.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Feb.-Wom.)  5 


FEMAIE  HELP  WANTED 


BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS-  UP  to  $5  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood. 
Free  Samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  Oept. 

P-25,  Glendale,  Calif. 

MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 
display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept.  N-2359,  Cincinnati 

25,  Ohio. 

HOUSEWIVES— $80-$125  Weekly.  Our  style  shows  adult 
and  children's  apparel  are  sensational  for  party  plan.  Isdbel 
Sharrow  made  $258-11  days  spare  time!  Free  Outfit.  Samples 

Furnished.  Birginal  Fashions,  Bensonville  286,  III. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY— Work  3-5  hrs.  at  home  daily. 
Up  to  $40  weekly  possible.  Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B. 
Dunbar  Co.,  Dept.  G2, 41 30  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
HOME  SEWERS  WANTED— Part  or  full  time.  Sew  readi- 
cut  ties,  aprons.  You  make  them,  we  sell  them.  Jud  San, 

518  E.  105,  Suite  B61,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

HOME  WORKERS  WANTEDI  Self  employment  home  jobs 
listed.  $20-$50  per  week  possible.  No  experience  necessary. 
Rush  Reply  for  details.  Maxwell,  Dept.  B2.  Cleveland  1 4,  Ohio. 
AMAZING  EXTRA-MONEY  plan  gives  you  gorgeous  dress 
without   penny   cost.    Rush   name   today   with   dress   size. 

C.  E.  Israel,  Dept.  N-2165,  Cincinnati  25,  Ohio. 

SEND    POSTCARD   FOR   Free    Money-Making    Kit  guar- 
anteed direct-from-Mill  nylons,  lingerie,  blouses,  men's  and 
children's  wear.  American  Mills,  Sept.  439,  Indianapolis. 
$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.  Experience  unnecessary.  Crown  Mfg.,  7150-B  Beverly 

Blvd.,  Los  Angeies  36,  California. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
pay.  Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Dept. 

81,  Hollywood  46,  California. 

WOMEN.  SEW  READY-Cut  Wrap-A-Round,  spare  time— 
profitable.  Dept.  D,  Hollywood  Mfg.  Co.,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 
ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOME  sewing  Baby  Shoes,  Dresses  for 

established  markets.  Thompson's,  Loganville  2,  Wis. 

NURSING  SCHOOIS 

EASILY  MAKE  $65  wk.  as  Practical  Nurse.  Learn  quickly  at 
home.  No  high  school  necessary,  no  age  limit.  Write  today 
for  free  booklet,  lessons.  Post  Graduate  School  of  Nursing, 

21E25  Auditorium  Bldg.,  Chicago. 

PRACTICAL  NURSING— LEARN  Easily  at  Home,  Spare 
Time.  Big  demand,  good  earnings.  High  School  not  necessary. 
Write  for  free  booklet.  Wayne  School,  Dept.  AW-18,  2525 

Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 
WANTED— 1894-S  DIME  Pay  $1000.00.  Certain  1913 
Nickel  $1500.00.  1901-S  Quarter  $30.00  to  $250.00.  Hundreds 
of  others.  Know  their  true  value.  Complete  illustrated  cat- 
alogue 50c.  Three  $1.00 — Catalogue  Money  Refundable. 
Worthycoin  Corporation  (D-550),  Boston  8,  Massachusetts. 
$10.00  FOR  CERTAIN  Lincoln  pennies,  Indianheads  $50.00. 
Booklet   showing   prices   paid,   10c.   Lincoln   Coins,   D-476, 

Glendale.  Arizona. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  20c.  Magnacoins.  Box  61-CD,  Whitestone  57,  N.  Y. 

STAMPS 

FREE  SCOTT'S  INTERNATIONAL  Album.  Other  pre- 
miums.  Particulars  with  Approvals.  Raymax,  35-BX  Maiden 

Lane,  New  York  City  38. 

FIRST    U.    N.   SET.   Among   World's   Prettiest.   Only   10c. 

Approvals.  Welles,  Box  1246-PX,  New  York  City  8. 

77    DIFFERENT    U.    S—  25c    Approvals.    Leonard,    1143X 

North  Keeler,  Chicago  51. 

ADDITIONAL  INCOME 

EARN  READY  CASH  doing  mailing  work.  No  experience 
needed.     F.     Wilson     Business    Service,    7372     Melrose, 

Los  Angeles  46,  California. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet   free.    American    School,    Dept.    X274, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

DENTAL  NURSING.  PREPARE  at  home  for  big  pay  career. 
Chairside  duties,  reception,  laboratory.  Personality  Develop- 
ment.  Free    Book.    Wayne   School,    Lab:    BA-13,   2521    N. 

Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144-W, 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes,  study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  Catalog  HCH-23,  Wayne 

School,  2527  N.  Sheffield.  Chicago  14,  Illinois. 

MAKE  HATS  FOR  fun  and  profit.  I  start  you  free.  Lottie 

Johnson  Hats.  7050  North  Glenwood,  Chicago  26. 

DANCING 
"DANCING  SELFTAUGHT"— Complete  book  $1.00.  Green- 
view.  Box  61 -ET,  Whitestone  57,  New  York. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

RUN  A  SPARE-Time  Greeting  Card  and  Gift  Shop  at  home. 
Show  friends  samples  of  our  new  1955  All-Occasion  Greeting 
Cards  and  Gifts.  Take  their  orders  and  earn  up  to  100% 
profit.  No  experience  necessary.  Costs  nothing  to  try.  Write 
today  for  samples  on  approval.  Regal  Greetings,  Dept.  118, 

Ferndale,  Michigan. 

NEED  EXTRA  CASH?  Get  it  selling  Blair's  unusual  line 
of  household  and  food  products.  Every  housewife  a  prospect. 
Products  sent  on  Free  Trial.  Write  Blair,  Dept.  185NB, 
Lynchburg,  Va. 

WHOLESALE!  8,000  NATIONALLY  Famous  Products. 
30-80%  Discounts!  Large  Catalog.  Sensational  Business 
Plans  Included.  Consolidated  Distributors,  21-28  Lafayette, 

Paterson  15.  New  Jersey. 

ADD  TO  FAMILY  income.  Unlimited  earnings.  Work  in 
spare  time  demonstrating  household  plastics  and  toys. 
No   canvassing   or   experience    necessary.    Halliday,    17-B 

Pennington  Ave.,  Passaic,  N.  J. 

SHINE  CARS  WITHOUT  "Polish."  New  invention. 
Lightning  seller.  Cars  gleam  like  mirror.  Samples  sent  on 

trial.  Kristee  145,  Akron,  Ohio. 

COLOGNE  SPRAY,  SELL  friends,  cost  $1.  Sells  $2.  Send 
$1  for  sample.  Guarantee  money-back.  Taylor  Cosmetics  Co., 

Box  4,  Triborough  Station,  New  York  City  35. 

HEALTH  &  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  &  Minor 

Hospital,  Suite  C-213,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

AVIATION         

AIRLINES  HOSTESS- 18-30  Wanted.  Send  $1.00  full 
information.  McConnell  Hostess  School,  1030  Nicollet. 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

FASCINATING  SPARE  TIME  pieTe  workl  No  sellingl  We 

pay  you  I  Truart,  Box  438,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

$200.00  OR  MORE  paid  by  Advertisers  for  Children's  Pic- 
tures for  Calendars,  Magazines  (all  ages).  Wonderful  oppor- 
tunity for  Your  Child.  Rush  one  small  picture  for  approval. 
Returned  30  days.  Print  child's,  parent's  name  and  address 
on  back.  Spotlite,  5880-P3  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood,  Calif. 
FREE  $72  WORTH  of  famous  name  electrical  appliances, 
home  furnishings,  apparel.  Form  a  small  friendly  Signet  Club. 
Big  catalog  and  details  free.  No  obligation.  Signet  Club  Plan, 

Dept.  4,  265  Third  Street,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

NEW  "LIFE  CYCLE"  analysis  may  alter  entire  course  of 
your  life.  Free  chart.  Life  Cycle  Institute,  12039  Atlantic, 

Compton,  Calif. 

DRESSES  24c;  SHOES  39c;  men's  suits  $455;  trousers 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  Catalog.  Transworld,  164-A, 

Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.  Y. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  folders  to  New 
Mothers.    Enclose    stamped    addressed    envelope.    Write 

Allen  Co.,  Warsaw,  Indiana. 

HOMEWORKI  MAILING  FOR  National  Firm.  Everything 
Supplied.  Good   Earnings.  Genmerco,   Box  142-W,   Boston 

22,  Mass. 

HIGHEST  PRICES  TYPEWRITING,  Sewing,  Writing  or 
clipping    wanted    items    from    your    newspaper.    Economy, 

Rowley,  Mass. 

MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog  (Plain  Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers;  §2.95  to  $22.50.  Crawford's, 

Dept.  28,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri.       

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark.    

EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash   mailing  advertising  literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

HOME   SEWERS    NEEDEDI    Instructions,   Cash    Markets 
Furnished.  National,  Box  88,  Dorchester  22W,  Mass. 
SEND  OUT  POSTCARDS.  Cash  daily.  Bicorp,  143  Belmont, 
Belmont,  Mass. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling 
chenille  monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.  Y. 

WORK  AT  HOME 

$30.00   WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.   Easy.   Write   Studio 

Company,  Greenville  7,  Penna. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics — nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality. 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free.  Hoover, 

Dept.  K-119,  New  York  11,  N.  Y. 

GET  OWN  DRESSES  as  Bonus  and  make  extra  money 
weekly  part  time  showing  friends  nationally  known  Maison- 
ette dresses,  lingerie,  children's  wear,  etc.,  and  taking  fast 
orders.  Write  Maisonette,  4452  Sycamore  St.,  Anderson,  Ind. 

MAIL  ORDER  CATALOG 

FREE  SPRING  CATALOG— Aldens  612  page  1955  Fashion 
Guidel  All  family,  home  needs.  Lowest  prices,  money-back 
satisfaction    guaranteed  I    Send    for    Free    Catalog    today. 

Aldens,  Dept.  415,  Box  8340A,  Chicago  80. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40  weekly 

possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot.  Gallipolis  18,  Ohio. 

MONEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

MAKE  EXTRA  DOLLARS  working  on  advertising  mail- 
ings Spare  Time — at  home.  Send   name,  address:  Global 

Mailers,  Dept.  768-B,  1813  South  Clinton,  Chicago  16. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  day  up.  Hire  others. 
Samples,   details.   Studio  Girl-Hollywood,   Glendale,   Calif. 

Dept.  P-25b. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  circulars  for  adver- 
tisers.    Complete     instructions— 25c.     Siwaslian,     4317-F 

Gleane,  Elmhurst  73,  N.  Y.     

EARN  MONEY  AT  Home  mailing  advertising  for  business- 
men. Instructions  $1  Refundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  9, 
New  York. 
EARN  MONEY  AT  Homel  Must  Have  good  Handwriting. 

Write  for  Details.  Atlas,  Box  188-A,  Melrose,  Mass. 

FREE  BOOK— "505  Odd,  Successful  Businesses."  Work 
Homel  Expect  something  Odd  I  Pacific  T-3,  Oceanside,  Calif. 
EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  at  home,  preparing  mailings  for 

advertisers.  Tern-Let,  Box  946,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

EARN   SPARE  TIME  Cash   mailing  advertising   literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

$60   THOUSAND    POSSIBLE    mailing   envelopes.    Instruc- 

tions  $1.  Drawer  188P,  Ft.  Gibson,  Okla. 

SEND  OUT  POSTCARDS.  Cash  daily.  Bicorp,  143  Belmont, 

Belmont,  Mass. 

MAKE   YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn    Money.  Send    $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

INSTRUCTION  

WANT  U.  S.  GOV'T  Job?  Men-Women,  18-55.  Start  high 
as  $350.00  month.  Qualify  Now  I  23,000  jobs  open.  Experience 
often  unnecessary.  Get  Fr«e  36-page  book  showing  jobs, 
salaries,  requirements,  sample  tests.  Write:  Franklin  Insti- 
tute,  Dept.  Y-37,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

CARTOONING  &  COMMERCIAL  ART 

"HOW  TO  MAKE  Money  with  Simple  Cartoons'— A  book 
everyone  who  likes  to  draw  should  have.  It  is  free;  no  obliga- 
tion.   Simply    address   Cartoonists'    Exchange,    Dept.   682, 

Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio. _____ 

PERSONAL 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men 
and  women.  Easy,  Quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  en- 
dorsers. Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details 
free  in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co., 

323  Securities  Bldg.,  Dept  B-69,  Omaha.  2,  Nebraska. 

32  FULL  COLOR  gorgeous  8'<"  by  11'  portraits,  Marilyn 
Monroe,  Jane  Russell— 30  other  stars.  Suitable  for  framing — 

$1.00.  Jalart,  270-M  Park,  New  York  17. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Discovery!  Free 
Trial  Offer.  Write  Pixacol,  Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

MISCELLANEOUS      

FREE  CATALOG— SAVE  on  cottons,  rayons,  nylons— newest 
fashions,  lowest  prices  anywhere.  Beautiful  exciting  styles  t 

in  dresses,  coats,  sportswear,  quality  household  items. 
Money  back  guarantee.  South  Carolina   Mills,  Dept.  230,  V 

Spartanburg,  South  Carolina.  

FREE  BOOK  ON  Arthritis,  Rheumatism    explains  special-  " 

ized  system  on  non-surgical,  non-medical  treatment.  Write 
Ball  Clinic,  Dept.  750,  Excelsior  Sorings,  Missouri. 

MORE  CLASSIFIED  ON   PAGE  86 

85 


86 


MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-10,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

MALE  HELP  WANTED 

FOREIGN  U.  S.  JOBS  to  $18,000.  Many  overseas  countries. 
Fare  Paid.  Skilled-Unskilled  Trades,  Office.  Stamped  self- 
addressed  envelope  brings  reply.  Job  Opportunities,  Waseca 

11F,   Minn. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

3  FOODBAGS  FREE  just  for  examining  America's  finest 
Plastics.  Over  200  Household  items — unbreakable  dishware, 
drapes,  Giftware,  etc.  Take  orders,  earn  big  money.  Catalog 

Free.  Loraine,  844H  Adams,  Chicago  7,  III. 

WOMEN  SEW  READY-Cut  Tiesl  No  selling.  Free  Details. 

Fashion  Ties,  P.  O.  Box  2066,  Dept.  AC,  West  Inglewood  4, 

California. 

$70  WEEKLY— HOME,  spare  time.  Simplified  mail  Book- 

keeping.     Immediate     income — easyl     Auditax,     34651PB, 

Los  Angeles  34. 

EARN  BIG  MONEY — Invisibly  Reweave  damaged  garments 
at  homel  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  8340  Prairie,  Chicago  19. 
BUY  WHOLESALE— 25,000  items— Catalog  25c.  Matihews, 
1472-K5  Broadway,  New  York  City  36. 
MONEY,  TYPING-SEWING!  Details  Freel  Edwards, 
3912-WG  12th,  Des  Moines  13,  Iowa. 

MORE  CLASSIFIED   ON    PAGE   85 

$$$$$$$$$$$  $  5>  $$  3> 

can  be  yours  for  help- 
ing us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions. 
Write  for  FREE  information:  Macfadden 
Publications.   205   East  42  St.,   N.    Y.    17,    N.   Y. 


money 


/fdtvudU  Swinging  Imp  Planter 


FLOWER  GARDEN 


Bargain!  To  Get  New  Cust- 
omers! This  devilishly  cute 
and  colorfully  decorated 
enchanting-  Imp  sits  on  a 
swing  and  ACTUALLY 
ROCKS  back  and  forth  on 
the  rustic  tree  trunk.  Rich- 
ly hand-decorated  ceramic, 
in  the  legendary  colors  of 
field  and  forest.  Twin  love- 
birds attractively  adorn  top 
of  swing.  Adds  a  gay  note 
to  your  end  table,  mantel, 
knick-knack  shelf,  etc. 
You'll  cherish  it  for  years. 

Miracle  Plants  Included 

Produces  a  lovely  indoor 
flower  garden,  quickly  and 
easily.  Simply  add  water. 
You'll  enjoy  a  gorgeous 
display  of  Asters,  Petunias, 
Marigolds,  Zinnias,  etc. 
Satisfaction  guaranteed  or 
money  back.  Not  more  than 
2  to  each  customer.  Add 
15c  to  each  Imp  Planter 
ordered  for  postage  and 
handling.       No  C.  O.  D.'a. 

Oobbs  Products  Co.,  900  W.  Lake,  Dept.  36 1 ,  Chicago  7,  III. 


200  Z  Child's  Photo 


ALL   AGES— ALL   TYPES 

Your  child's   photo   may   bring  you 
as     much     as     $200     from    one    na- 
tional   advertiser!    Big   demand    for 
pictures  of  boys  and  girls  6  months 
to    18   years,    to   be  used   for  Calen- 
dars,   Billboards    and    Magazines.    A 
wonderful  opportunity  for  your  child! 
Send  only  ONK  small   photo  for  our 
approval.    Print  child's  name,    age, 
and   parent's   name   and   address  on 
back.    Picture   returned    in    30  days. 
ACT    NOW!     NO    OBLIGATION! 
(Not   a  contest) 
SPOTLITE   PHOTOS 
5880-BMW   Hollywood   Blvd.,  Hollywood   28,  Calif. 


SUKEBS  PSORIASIS 

(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 

i   DGRmOIL 


MAKE  THE  ONE 

SPOT 


Prov»  It  you  me  If  no  in.it.  Lei 

how  long  you  have  Buffered 

or    what   you    have    tried. 

Beautiful   txiok   on    pnorl- 

ai*ln    and     Dcrmoil     with 

true       photo- 

)'i  Bph  IG   proof  of  rvsullH 

KtntFRKE.  Writ©  for  It. 


Don't 


SEND   FOR 

, GENEROUS 
y  TRIAL 
SIZE    >' 


nlttako     oczemat 
fttubborn,     ugly 

•  mbarraaaing  acaly  akin 
dieeaao  Paoriaala.  Ap- 
ply non-atatnlng  Dor- 
moil,     Thouaanda    do    fot 

n'iily     mutt*     01 

m  ;ilji.  Grateful  UHITM  ofte 
Bftffl       ycare      of      auif'rli, 

the       aealea       have 

I   !■'><  hoi  gradually  din-  ^^^^^ 

appeared   and   Un-y   <  >njuyed   the  thrill  of  clear  akin 
attain.   IJennoll   la  uhc]   by  many  doctor*  and   la  backed  by  a 
jK,».ni  I    '■   :■'-'    deflnlU     benefit    In   1   wceka  or 

I Itqutatlon.    Sand  10c(Htarnp»or<-'. Inj 

trial    l*,ltl<     I  S|>"t 

Tout."  Teat  It  for  your«eJf.    Itehnlti  may  -.urprhie  you     Writeto- 

da/  for  your  tut  bottli       Caution:  Uaa  only  u  directed.     Print 

plainly.     Don'tdeley.     Sold  by  Liggett  and  Walgreen  Drug 

•  tore,    and    other    loading    Druggiatt.    LAKl    LABORATORIES, 
■  ox  3025.  Strathmoor  Station,  Dept.  0404,  Detroit  27,  Mich. 


The  first  thing  to  do,  he  decided,  was  to 
get  a  job,  so  he  could  be  self-supporting 
like  other  men.  Nineteen  and  eager,  the 
amateur  botanist  and  would-be  writer 
worked  wherever  he  could — in  factories, 
farms,  a  grocery  store.  He  "cut  brush 
for   a   nice   man,"  tried  weaving. 

No,  the  first  thing  to  do,  he  decided,  was 
to  get  the  right  job — one  that  made  some 
constructive  use  of  his  own  natural  talents. 
He  wasn't  certain  just  what  these  talents 
were,  but  he  had  heard  about  those  apti- 
tude tests  that  tell  a  person's  abilities 
quite  scientifically.  So  Wally  plunked  down 
twenty   hard-earned   bucks   for   the   tests. 

"For  two  days,"  he  recalls,  "there  was 
great  stroking  of  beards  and  much  self- 
conscious  erudition,  before  they  announced 
their  decision.  I  was  told  not  to  attempt 
anything  creative.  I  was  fit  for  just  two 
types  of  activity.  One,  I  should  make  my 
living  by  working  with  my  hands.  And 
two,  I  could  play  a  musical  instrument, 
providing  it  did  not  require  the  reading 
of  more  than  one  line  of  notes." 

He  was  also  advised  to  stop  changing 
jobs.  A  man  cannot  be  qualified  as 
belonging  to  a  profession  unless  he  has 
"five  consecutive  years  of  employment  in 
that  one  field." 

As  literal-minded  as  Mr.  Peepers,  Wally 
learned  to  play  a  "recorder" — a  woodwind 
which  requires  the  reading  of  only  one  line 
of  notes.  (By  coincidence,  this  is  the 
musical  instrument  which  now  plays  the 
theme  music  on  his  TV  show.)  And  he 
enrolled  in  the  School  of  Industrial  Arts 
at  New  York  University,  where  he  studied 
handicrafts  for  two  years — until  his  G.I. 
Bill  credit  ran  out.  Then  he  got  a  job  in 
one  of  those  little  shops  in  Greenwich  Vil- 
lage which  sell  hand -made  silver  objects. 

Wally  describes  his  boss  as  "a  fairy-tale 
villain,"  but  a  more  experienced  wage- 
earner  would  have  recognized  him  for 
what  he  was — a  little  businessman,  making 
as  much  as  he  could,  paying  only  what  he 
had  to,  and  trying  to  take  advantage  of 
a  young  man  he  had  sized  up  as  a  defense- 
less Peepers.  By  calling  his  young  as- 
sistant "an  apprentice,"  he  tried  to  start 
him  off  at  fifty  cents  an  '  hour.  Wally 
pointed  out — quietly  but  firmly — that  his 
mother  was  ill,  he  needed  enough  money 
to  help  support  his  family,  and  he  had  made 
eighty-five  cents  an  hour  as  an  appren- 
tice in  a  lamp  factory.  The  owner  of  the 
shop  finally  agreed  to  start  him  off  at  sixty 
cents  an  hour,  and  Wally  had  learned  his 
first  lesson  of  business  life:  You  get  what 
you  ask  for — only  never  that  much. 

Hie  kept  asking,  however,  and  was  raised 
to  seventy  cents  an  hour,  then  eighty.  Soon, 
he  was  not  only  making  all  the  silver  but 
running  the  shop  as  well.  That  was  how 
he  found  out  about  percentages — per- 
centage of  goods  sold,  percentage  of  over- 
head, percentage  of  profit.  And  that  was 
how  he  found  out  that,  while  he  made 
thirty-five  dollars  a  week,  the  boss  made 
twenty-five  thousand  a  year.  This  time, 
Wally  didn't  ask  for  a  raise — he  argued 
for  it.  And  so  he  learned  his  second  lesson 
of  business  life:  Pure  logic,  spoken  in  the 
soft  accents  of  reason,  will  get  you  no  place. 
A  business  argument  is  sheer  emotion  and 
if  you  can't  out-yell  your  opponent,  you've 
got  to  act.  Wally  quit,  got  a  job  in  an- 
other shop,  and  two  months  later  was  hired 
back  by  his  first  boss  at  a  dollar  an  hour. 
But  the  "fairy-tale  villain"  had  taught 
Wally  the  facts  of  life  in  a  competitive 
world,  and  aggravated  him  into  a  practical- 
ity which  was  to  come  in  handy  in  a  world 
that  Peepers  could  never  even  dream  of. 
In  1946,  Wally  went  into  business  for  him- 
self. His  shop  was  a  workbench  in  the 
cold-water  flat  where  he  lived.  Here,  he 
made  cufflinks  and  tie  pins  of  his  own 
design,  selling  them  to  the  exclusive  haber- 
dasheries  on   Madison  Aveiiue.     And,   he 


was  making  more  money  on  his  own  than 
he  had  as  someone  else's  assistant. 

Going  into  business  for  himself,  however, 
was  more  than  just  economics.  Uncon- 
sciously, he  was  striking  out  for  freedom 
— freedom  to  be  completely  himself.  Partly, 
it  was  self-confidence.  He  had  proven  he 
was  not  inadequate  to  life  but  could  meet 
it — on  his  own  terms.  And  partly,  it  was 
the  reinforcement  of  his  friends.  Most  of 
them  were  actors — including  another  young 
individualist  named  Marlon  Brando,  who 
had  been  a  former  schoolmate  of  Wally's  at 
Evanston,  Illinois.  The  two  were  even- 
tually to  room  together  in  New  York. 

Although  the  aptitude-testers  had  failed 
to  find  any  trace  of  creative  ability  in 
Wally,  his  friends  didn't  fail.  At  a  party 
one  night,  he  got  up  and  did  a  side-split- 
ting imitation  of  a  non-com  in  charge  of 
Army  recruits.  Wally  wasn't  any  wall- 
flower suddenly  becoming  the  life  of  the 
party.  He  was  simply  being  himself — a 
man  with  a  natural  talent  for  acting  that 
just  couldn't  be  held  back  any  longer. 

His  friends  made  him  join  the  American 
Creative  Theater  Group.  They  also  made 
him  entertain  at  other  gatherings.  At  one 
of  them,  an  NBC  executive  heard  him  and 
arranged  an  audition  at  the  Vanguard,  a 
Greenwich  Village  night  club.  Wally  made 
his  debut  there   in  December,  1948. 

Appearing  in  a  night  club  is  the  tough- 
est test  for  a  performer.  It  requires  fight- 
ing for  an  audience's  attention,  competing 
against  customers  bellowing  the  latest 
gossip,  waiters  rattling  dishes,  and  an 
occasional  drunk  fancying  himself  as  a 
comedian.  It  takes  a  commanding  pres- 
ence for  a  straight  actor  to  hold  such  an 
audience. 

Wally's  act  didn't  rely  on  slapstick,  noise 
or  gags.  His  satiric  monologues  were  in 
a  quiet  vein,  requiring  close  attention  to 
catch  the  subtleties  of  character.  But  the 
patrons  of  the  overcrowded  Vanguard  paid 
close  attention  for  eight  consecutive  weeks, 
leading  to  engagements  for  Wally  at  such 
swank  night  spots  as  the  Persian  Room  in 
New  York  and  the  Mocambo  in  Hollywood. 
But  the  engagement  he  remembers  best 
was  the  one  at  a  certain  club  in  Detroit, 
reputedly  the  hangout  of  gangsters  and 
racketeers.  A  sympathetic  waitress  tried 
to  assure  him  that  it  wasn't  really  a  hang- 
out of  gangsters  and  racketeers — she  had 
only  seen  three  in  the  place  all  night. 

There  wasn't  any  stage,  either.  "I  had 
to  work  standing  on  the  bar,"  Wally  re- 
calls, "with  people  drinking  on  both  sides 
of  me.  The  pianist,  who  also  served  as 
emcee,  gave  me  a  big  build-up,  making 
much  of  the  fact  that  I  was  direct  from 
nine  weeks  at  The  Blue  Angel  in  New 
York  City." 

Wally  did  his  act,  interrupted  by  an  oc- 
casional "Hey,  why  don't  you  get  your  hair 
cut?"  from  the  audience.  Afterwards,  the 
sympathetic  waitress  called  him  aside.  "I 
guess  this  just  isn't  your  room,"  she  said. 

The  second  night,  the  pianist  merely  in- 
troduced him  as  "Wally  Cox."  Period!  The 
third  night,  the  management  asked  him 
to  leave.  Wally  pointed  out  that  he  had 
been  engaged  for  a  week.  What's  more,  he 
stayed  the  full  week,  playing  nightly — 
standing  on  the  bar  before  an  audience 
which  wasn't  any  happier  about  it  than 
he  was. 

In  1950,  he  was  signed  for  the  Broadway 
revue,  "Dance  Me  a  Song."  Once  he  was 
hailed  as  a  great  comic  discovery,  the  door 
was  opened  to  radio  and  TV.  Wally  ap- 
peared as  a  guest  star  on  thirty-five  differ- 
ent programs  before  starring  in  a  Philco 
Television  Playhouse  production,  "The 
Copper."  It  was  a  whimsical  little  comedy, 
but  it  went  over  so  well  that  Fred  Coe, 
the  producer,  and  David  Swift,  the  author, 
got  in  a  huddle  with  the  star  to  figure  out 
a  TV  comedy  series  for  him.    They  almost 


*B3KHfeBfflSf '^ '    #:' 


made  Wally  a  policeman,  but  finally  de- 
cided on  a  schoolteacher.  On  July  3,  1952, 
Mr.  Peepers  debuted  as  a  summer  show. 

When  the  series  ended,  ten  thousand 
fans  wrote  to  NBC  urging  them  to  bring 
back  Peepers.  The  letters  were  gratify- 
ing but  unnecessary.  NBC  had  already 
signed  Wally  to  a  five-year  contract  and, 
three  weeks  later,  on  October  twenty-sixth, 
Mr.  Peepers  returned  to  TV  as  a  regular 
series  of  the  winter  season. 

To  his  fans  of  all  ages,  Peepers  is  the 
eternal  boy — as  serious-minded  as  only 
the  very  young  can  be.  Everything  he 
does  is  new  and  fresh,  because  everything 
seems  to  be  happening  to  him  for  the  first 
time — as  though  it  had  never  happened  to 
anyone  else  before.  To  teenagers,  he  is 
a  contemporary,  taking  his  first  hesitant 
steps  in  a  grown-up  world.  To  oldsters, 
he  is  a  blessed  reminder  of  those  awful, 
wonderful  days  when  they  were  young. 

As  an  actor,  it  is  gratifying  to  Wally  to 
have  his  work  so  appreciated.  As  a  human 
being,  however,  it's  a  bit  disconcerting 
to  learn  that  no  one  thinks  he's  acting. 
Even  a  boy  hates  to  be  told  that  he's  boyish 
— let  alone  a  man  of  thirty!  "If  there 
weren't  something  of  Peepers  in  me,"  he 
admits,  "I  couldn't  play  him."  But  Peepers 
is  the  character  Wally  might  have  become. 
Why  couldn't  anyone  see  him  as  he  really 
was? 

Last  September  twenty-eighth,  when 
The  Martha  Raye  Show  returned  to  the 
air,  Wally  appeared  as  a  guest  star, 
taking  the  role  of  a  psychopathic  killer. 
For  comic  effect,  the  script  writers  relied 
upon  the  incongruity  of  anyone  as  gentle 
as  he  trying  to  murder  anyone  as  blithely 
roughhouse  as  Martha.  But  Wally  played 
the  part  with  such  sadistic  relish  that  he 
seemed  quite  capable  of  mayhem,  and  the 
merry  twinkle  in  his  eyes  seemed  to  indi- 
cate that  what  he  really  wanted  was  to  kill 
forever  the  legend  that  he  is  Peepers. 

It  was  useless.  Even  the  press  still  in- 
sists that  Cox  is  "a  mild  and  shy  little 
fellow  who  makes  his  own  shoes  and 
patches  his  pants  with  rubber  cement." 

Shy?  "To  say  that  an  actor  is  shy  is 
a  contradiction  in  terms,"  Wally  says, 
mildly  surprised  that  the  record  doesn't 
speak  for  itself.  How  could  anyone  who 
is  genuinely  shy  become  a  star  in  the 
competitive,  extroverted  world  of  show 
business?  As  for  "the  little  fellow"  people 
feel  so  sorry  and  protective  about,  he's  now 
making  more  than  $125,000  a  year. 

But  money  was  never  Wally's  yardstick. 
He  is  a  searching  being,  more  concerned 
about  inner  realities  than  externals.  What 
can  money  buy  that  he  really  needs?  A 
few  more  clothes?  He  was  just  as  happy 
with  one  suit — "an  elegant  sufficiency  of 
all-purpose  brown."  Confessing  to  an  "in- 
terest in  velocity,"  he  can  now  afford  two 
motorcycles.  But  he  rents  his  green 
convertible,  and  he  doesn't  own  the  plane 
he  is  learning  to  fly.  He  bought  a  two- 
acre  lot  in  the  country  and  started  to  build 
a  house  all  by  himself — a  project  he  has 
long  since  abandoned. 

To  the  world,  he  was  a  success.  In  his 
own  terms,  however,  success  was  some- 
thing that  happened  last  September  when 
Mr.  Peepers  returned  to  the  air  for  its 
third  season.  It  meant  that  Wally  had  been 
an  actor  for  five  years. 

"Five  years'  consecutive  employment  in 
one  field,"  he  mused,  thinking  of  the  apti- 
tude-testers. "The  time  has  now  come  for 
me  to  write  them  a  caustic  letter." 

He  was  partially  serious.  It  meant  he 
had  proven  himself,  found  his  rightful 
place  in  a  man's  world — on  his  own  terms, 
as  an  individual.  But  he  still  didn't  have 
the  things  other  men  have.  .  .  . 

He  met  Marilyn — his  bride-to-be — four 
years  ago,  when  she  was  sixteen.  The 
daughter  of  Edward  Gennaro,  a  pattern- 


maker in  New  York's  garment  industry, 
she  studied  dancing  at  the  Performing  Arts 
High  School.  A  month  before  her  gradu- 
ation, she  entered  the  cast  of  "Dance  Me  a 
Song,"  in  which  Wally  also  made  his  stage 
debut. 

Marilyn  is  five  feet,  five  inches,  weighs 
a  hundred  and  fifteen  pounds  (Wally  is 
five  feet,  six  inches,  weighs  one  hundred 
and  thirty),  with  poodle-cut  reddish- 
brown  hair  and  brown  eyes.  Backstage 
acquaintances  describe  her  as  "a  quiet 
girl  who  can  be  vivacious  on  occasion." 

About  a  year  ago,  when  Marilyn  was 
dancing  in  "The  King  and  I,"  she  and  Wally 
started  going  steady.  Since  both  have 
quiet  tastes,  they  steered  clear  of  night 
clubs,  and  few  knew  of  their  romance. 
Except  for  a  few  friends,  the  wedding  was 
also  kept  secret. 

1*  was  performed  by  a  Methodist  minis- 
ter in  a  ceremony  similar  to  Wally's  TV 
wedding.  A  writer  who  was  present  re- 
ports: "Donald  Seawell,  a  New  York 
lawyer,  gave  the  bride  away.  Peter  Tur- 
geon,  an  actor  friend,  was  best  man,  but 
Wally  carried  the  wedding  ring  which 
he  had  hammered  out  of  gold  and  beveled 
in  an  Egyptian  design.  The  ceremony  was 
on  the  lawn  of  Seawell's  farm,  overlooking 
Chesapeake  Bay  near  Bozman,  Maryland. 
Warm  sunshine  glinted  on  the  star  ruby 
of  the  bride's  yellow-gold  engagement  ring. 
Wally  had  proposed  more  than  a  month 
before,  but  she  got  the  engagement  ring 
only  three  days  before  the  wedding — took 
him  that  long  to  make  it.  The  minister's 
wife,  with  babe  in  arms,  came  along  for 
the  ceremony.  Wally  bussed  the  bride 
solidly  on  the  mouth  at  cermony's  end — 
rather  different  from  his  TV  kisses,  which 
are  best  described  as  pecks." 

The  Coxes  honeymooned  "somewhere 
in  the  Rockies,"  then  toured  the  straw-hat 
circuit,  for  Wally  was  starring  in  a  sum- 
mer-theater production  of  "The  Vegetable," 
F.  Scott  Fitzgerald's  comedy  of  the  Twen- 
ties. Marilyn,  who  last  danced  in  the  new 
Broadway  hit,  "The  Pajama  Game,"  has 
given  up  her  career  to  concentrate  on 
marriage.  They  now  live  in  Wally's  three- 
room  bachelor  apartment,  in  a  high-ceil- 
inged  reconverted  old  brownstone  in  mid- 
Manhattan.  He  still  has  his  workbench, 
and  he's  busy  making  a  set  of  silverware 
and  some  extra  chairs. 

As  for  married  life,  Wally  thinks  "it's  the 
cure  for  what's  wrong  with  being  a  bache- 
lor." And  what's  wrong  with  being  a 
bachelor?  "Well,  you  waste  a  lot  of  time 
looking  for  a  wife.  It  isn't  wasted  when 
you  get  married.  And  then,  you're  always 
wondering  who  it's  going  to  be.  When 
you're  married,  you  don't  wonder  any 
more." 

He  was  half -facetious,  but  then  he  turned 
serious. 

"I  haven't  any  parents  or  close  relatives 
within  eight  hundred  miles.  Now,  when 
I  come  home  at  night,  someone  loves  me. 
It's  quite  a  new  thing  to  me."  He  paused. 
"It  makes  a  difference  in  your  work  and 
everything.  You  don't  realize  how  much 
is  preying  on  your  mind  until  you're 
married.  It's  a  burden  off  your  shoulders, 
and  you  can  devote  your  mind  to  other 
things.  It  takes  a  long  time  to  realize 
you're  not  a  boy — a  longer  time  for  some- 
one like  me,  with  my  boyish  face  and 
gestures.  But  now  I'm  in  the  category  of 
a  married  man — the  head  of  a  family,  so 
to  speak.  It's  a  little  extra  adulthood — a 
psychological  graduation." 

A  psychological  graduation  to  maturity! 
At  last,  Wally  has  taken  his  rightful  place 
in  the  world — and  in  the  whole  scheme  of 
things.  But,  even  now  that  he  has  grown 
into  full  manhood,  he  still  reminds  one  of 
Peepers — for  he  has  done  so  without 
losing  any  of  the  sweetness,  the  integrity, 
or  the  natural  innocence  of  youth. 


Noreen  keeps  your  hair 
looking  nice,  naturally 


COLOR 
HAIR 
RINSE 

Your  friends  will  admire  your  hair — 
never  realizing  that  a  simple, 
easy-to-apply  Noreen  Color  Hair  Rinse 
brought  out  its  natural  beauty  and 
gave  it  a  dramatic  true-to-life  color 
with  a  beautiful,  lustrous  sheen. 

From  Noreen's  esteemed  tine  of 
1 4  colors  you'll  find  just  the  one  to 
play  up  your  natural  hair  beauty  or 
blend  in  unwanted  gray. 
Noreen  takes  only  3  minutes  to  apply 
with  the  applicator;  no  special  skill 
needed.  See  for  yourself  how  Noreen 
will  keep  your  hair  the  way  you 
want  it  from  shampoo  to  shampoo- 
bright  and  shining  instead 
of  dull  and  drab. 
At  cosmetic  counters  everywhere. 
Also  professionally 
applied  in 
beauty  salons. 
Available  in 
Car 


87 


88 


5 DRESSES 


For 


NOW  READY!  GORGEOUS,  SMART, 
MODERN  STYLE  DRESSES  FOR  ALL 
m  OCCASIONS! 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as- 
sortment of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety  of 
luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons,  cot- 
tons, gabardines,  woolens,  silks, 
etc.  Expensive  dresses — original 
value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cards!  5  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON! 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.  770  I 

On*-  of  the  oldest  and  largest  mail  order  houses  of  its  kind! 
I     103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y. 

Rush  my  S  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below     ! 
with    Free   Button   Cards.    Enclosed    find    $1    de-    1 
posit,    balance    C.O.D.    plus    postage.    Money    re- 
turned if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and 
foreign  orders  accepted. 
Circle  Size: 

Girl's  Sizes  7,  8.  10.  12.  14  are  5  for  $2.75 
Junior  Min  Sizes  9,  1 1 .  1 3.  1  5  are  5  for  $3.75 
"Sizes  12,  14,  16.  18,20,38,40,42,44,5  for  $3.75 
I  Sizes  1 4  '/, .  1 6  '/, ,  1 8  V, ,  20  '/, ,  22  '/, ,  24  Vj  ,  5  for  $3.7S 
I      Extra  Large  Sizes  46,  48,  50,  52  are  5  for  $4.75 
I      □  Check    here   to   save   C.O.D.    fee.    Send    full 

amount  with  2  5<*  postage. 
,  Q  Please    send  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY 

I 
I 
|      Address 

I      City  Zone        State 


Name 


Time  to  Live 

{Continued  from  page  60) 

Would  I  trade  it  for  something  else? 

No,  nix,  nenny,  nyet — not  yes! 

From  childhood,  I  have  had  no  other  de- 
sire than  to  be  an  actress  and,  by  the  grace 
of  God,  I  am  doing  my  best  to  be  one.  I 
am  eternally  grateful  to  the  good  people 
who  have  watched  and  enjoyed  our  show. 
I  am  selfishly  grateful,  because  those  peo- 
ple have  presented  me  with  a  gift  that  is 
priceless  to  any  actress — the  opportunity 
to  act. 

Now,  an  actress  can  act  without  an  au- 
dience. There's  always  your  bedroom 
mirror — or  your  audience  in  dreams.  But, 
actually,  there's  no  real  substitute  for  a 
living  audience,  even  if  it's  sitting  out 
there  at  the  end  of  what  they  call  a  micro- 
wave. 

My  first  "important"  audience  consisted 
of  just  one  person!  This  goes  back  to  child- 
hood times  and  the  day  I  came  out  of  my 
very  own  land  of  make-believe.  The 
family  had  been  indulgent  about  my  child- 
hood stage  ambitions  and  never  did  any- 
thing to  really  discourage  me.  In  time, 
there  were  to  be  a  few  barriers.  But,  at 
the  outset,  there  was  gentle  toleration  of 
the  idea  that  I  wanted  to  go  on  stage — just 
so  long  as  nothing  serious  came  of  the 
idea.  But  there  came  a  day.  One  particu- 
lar day.  The  day  I  had  an  audience  of 
one. 

1  was  just  a  very  little  girl,  playing  at 
dreams  in  a  back  yard  in  Beverly  Hills, 
California,  and  I  had  scissor-hacked  one 
of  the  family  pillowslips  to  serve  as  the 
fancy  gown  my  heroine  wore  in  her  great 
love  scene.  Alas  for  a  real  hero — the  ob- 
ject of  my  affection  was  a  tree  trunk.  I  had 
embraced  it  fondly  and  was  pouring  love's 
young  ardor  into  a  knot  hole  which  served 
for  the  hero's  ear,  when  I  heard  a  chuckle 
from  the  back  porch.  There  on  the 
porch  was  my  audience  of  one.  He  was 
a  cousin,  really — but  something  more  than 
just  a  cousin.  He  was  Douglas  Fairbanks, 
Jr.,  the  son  of  my  Aunt  Beth. 

As  any  actor  will  tell  you,  a  chuckle  in 
the  middle  of  a  highly  dramatic  scene  is 
almost  a  fatal  kind  of  criticism.  So  far  as 
the  actor  is  concerned,  it  does  one  or  the 
other  of  two  things:  It  makes  him  decide 
to  embrace  chicken  farming  as  a  profes- 
sion, or  it  makes  him  mad.  In  my  case,  it 
made  me  mad.  I  didn't  speak  to  Douglas 
for  something  more  than  a  week,  and 
it  was  during  that  time  that  I  decided  that 
someday,  somehow,  I  was  going  to  play 
that  kind  of  scene  so  well  that  the  au- 
dience wouldn't  laugh. 

Of  course,  I  know  now  that  that  cousinly 
chuckle  wasn't  really  criticism.  I  know 
that  it  was  just  a  case  of  joy  over  watching 
a  youngster  trying  to  spread  a  set  of  adult 
wings,  and  not  having  too  much  success. 

Once  having  made  my  mind  up,  I  got 
downright  stubborn  about  it.  There  are 
a  lot  of  performers  in  my  family — actors, 
dancers  and  the  like.  Almost  without  ex- 
ception, they  tried  at  one  time  or  another 
to  dissuade  me  from  my  chosen  career.  For 
sensible  people,  they  rilled  me  full  of  an 
uncommon  batch  of  nonsense  about  the 
theatrical  profession  being  no  business  for 
a  nice  girl.  .  .  .  Hmph! 

But,  for  a  girl  who  was  dedicated  to  the 
proposition  of  performing  for  the  public, 
I  went  about  it  in  a  very  strange  way  in- 
deed. I  don't  think  anybody  would  have 
classed  me  as  a  scholar  during  primary 
and  secondary  schooling.  I  moved  around 
a  lot,  and  there  were  frequent  changes  in 
school.  Then,  on  top  of  that,  some  mem- 
ber of  the  family  was  always  heading  out 
on  a  trip  and  I  was  frequently  carted  along. 

By  the  time  I  was  twelve,  I  probably 
knew  more  about  traveling  to  Europe  than 


AUTHENTIC  -  AUTOGRAPHED 

MINIATURE 


a*.  PIANO 


Liberace,  famous  television 
pianist,  autographs  a 
beautiful  and  useful 
miniature  piano  for  you  . . . 
gorgeous  as  a  candy,  jewel, 
thread  or  cigarette  box— 
or  beautifully  decorative 
as  a  planter .  . .  91/2  inches 
tall  opened,  7  inches  long 
and  5  inches  wide  ...  in 
ivory,  or  mahogany 
plastic.  What  a 
conversational  piece  it  is! 
And  what  a  wonderful, 
useful  and  thoughtful  gift! 
Order  yours  NOW! 


World  Wide     63  Central  Ave.,  Ossining,  N.Y. 

I    enclose    $ fnr 

Liberace  miniature  pianos. 

My  first  color  choice  is 

Second   color   choice   is 

Name 

Street 

City 


-Zone State- 


Send  cash  or  money  order.  We  pay  postage. 


NEW  KINO  OF  SEWING  SHEARS.  Revolutionary  invention  replaces 
old-fashioned  shears.  Magnetic  Points  pick  op  pins,  needles.  Ruler 
Blade  measures  as  yon  cat.  Stay-sharp,  keen-catting  edges.  Full  7' 
length.  Beautifully  plated.  Sells  like  wild.  Take  orders!  Earnmoneyl 

SAMPLES  FOR  TRIAL  M.tfWw'K 

send  name  at  once.  Hurry.  Postcard  will  do.  SEND  NO  MONEY— 
just  your  name.   KRISTEE  CO.,   Dept.   453,  AKRON  8,  OHIO 


EASY  TO  LEARN  AT  HOME 

Help  fill  the  need  for  Trained  Practical  Nurses 
in  your  community  or  travel.  Wayne  Train- 
ing Plan,  welcomed  by  doctors,  preparesyou 
for  experience — at  home  in  spare  time.  Many 
earn  while  learning.  NO  HIGH  SCHOOL 
NEEDED.  Ages  18  to  65  accepted.  Nurses 
Outfit  included.  Easy  payments.  Informa- 
tion &  sample  of  lessons  Free.  Write  today. 


Wayne  School  of  Practical  Nursing,  Inc., 

2525ShcffieldAve.,DeskE-82,Chicagol4,lll.  J 


Excellent 

Earning 

Opportunity 

for  Full  or 
Spare  Time 


BLONDE  HAIR 

is  worth  $l,OOQ,000 


Will  You  Pay  104  a  Week 
I  \   to  Bring  Out  Its  True 
SHINING,  RADIANT 
COLOR 

with  this  New  Shampoo 
Made  Specially  tor  Blondes  I 

Now,  without  tints,  rinses  or  ugly 
bleached  look,  you  can  safely  give 
your  hair  the  radiant  blonde  color  men  love.  BLONDEX 
the  new  I  I  minute  "creamy"  home  shampoo  contains 
ANDIUM  tor  extra-lightness  and  shine.  Instantly  removes  dingy 
film  that  makes  hair  dark.  Washes  blonde  hair  shades  lighter.  Gives 
it  lovely  lustre.  Safe  for  children's  delicate  hair.  Get  BLONDEX 
today  at  any  10c,  drug  or  department  store, 


I  knew  about  sixth-grade  mathematics. 
I  was  in  London  for  the  coronation  of 
George  VI  in  1937— but  I  don't  think  this 
had  any  particular  effect  on  my  standing  in 
the  English  courses  in  Oakland  grade 
schools! 

There  came  a  time  when  I  had  man- 
aged to  struggle  through  high  school, 
and  the  family  proposed  that  I  should  go 
on  to  college.  But  I  had  something  that 
can  be  described  as  the  Bernhardt  com- 
plex. So  far  as  I  was  concerned,  I  knew 
what  my  career  was  going  to  be  and  there 
was  no  reason  for  not  starting  it  right  then. 

Of  course,  I  considered  myself  to  be 
a  well-seasoned  actress  already.  So  far 
as  my  "seasoning"  was  concerned,  what 
I  probably  needed  was  salt — the  kind  that 
you  take  a  grain  of.  I  had  appeared  in 
various  children's  dramas  at  the  San  Fran- 
cisco Exposition,  and  I  had  always  been  in 
some  kind  of  theatrical  effort,  and  I  thought 
I  knew  enough  to  get  by.  There  was  a  heavy 
family  conference  on  the  subject  of  school- 
versus-career,  with  the  latter  winning  out. 

But  there  was  one  drawback  to  it.  I 
was  informed  very  firmly  that,  if  I  wanted 
to  get  into  stage  work  in  New  York,  I 
would  first  have  to  earn  enough  money  to 
float  me  through  the  try-out  period.  Re- 
volting thought!  I,  a  budding  actress,  con- 
demned to  slavish  toil.     Ugh! 

I  got  a  job  selling  classified  advertising 
on  the  Oakland  Tribune,  and  actually 
liked  it.  Strangely  enough,  that  experi- 
ence of  working  on  a  newspaper  has  stood 
me  in  good  stead  on  A  Time  To  Live. 
On  TV  these  days,  I'm  Kathy  Byron,  a  girl 
reporter — and  while  I  was  in  a  different 
branch  of  the  paper  in  Oakland,  at  least  I 
did  get  a  good  working  knowledge  about 
how  newspaper  people  think,  feel,  and  act. 

Meanwhile,  I  had  been  playing  various 
roles  with  one  of  the  little-theater  com- 
panies in  San  Francisco,  and  getting  ex- 
perience which  was  sorely  needed.  It 
doesn't  seem  so  long  now,  looking  back, 
but  there  was  a  time  when  I  thought  it 
would  never  end.  The  day  did  come, 
though,  when  I  got  out  of  "durance  vile" 
and  headed  for  New  York.  The  family 
still  was  of  one  mind  and  didn't  take  the 
venture  too  seriously.  I  think  they  fully 
expected  to  have  Patty  back  in  their  laps 
after  a  couple  of  weeks  or  so.  Or  maybe 
they  were  just  giving  me  a  sort  of  indi- 
rect encouragement — prodding  me  on  to 
greater  effort  by  getting  my  gander  up. 

If  I  thought  I  was  going  to  land  smack- 
dab  in  the  middle  of  a  Broadway  stage, 
I  was  due  for  a  comeuppance.  Rather  an 
unflattering  comeuppance,  now  that  I 
think  of  it. 

It  seemed  that,  as  of  that  moment,  Broad- 
way producers  weren't  having  any  young 
California  sprouts  with  dramatic  ambi- 
tions. I  wore  out  a  good  deal  of  shoe 
leather  before  I  convinced  myself  that  the 
task  was  hopeless,  for  the  time  being,  so 
I  started  looking  elsewhere. 

Well,  if  you've  got  to  have  a  job,  and 
if  you're  willing  to  temporize  with  ambi- 
tion, you  can  usually  find  something  profit- 
able. I  did.  I  got  a  job  modeling  clothes 
at  Saks  Fifth  Avenue.  But  hold  on  a 
moment — because  here  goes  glamour:  I 
was  a  model  for  "chubby  teens"! 

Alas  for  lithesome  lines,  for  sylphlike 
shapes,  for  the  lean,  clean  profile  of  wil- 
low! Patty  was  a  fatty — or  a  little  bit,  at 
any  rate.  I  earned  a  living  at  it  for  a 
while,  and  then  embraced  a  rigid  diet. 

The  diet  had  two  results — I  lost  my 
job  at  Saks,  but  almost  at  once  I  got  a  job 
in  a  theatrical  stock  company  at  Erie, 
Pennsylvania.  The  job  lasted  six  months, 
and  was  very  good  for  me.  It  gave  me  an 
opportunity  to  do  all  of  the  hundred  and 
one  acting  chores  you're  likely  to  en- 
counter with  a  stock  company,  and  the 
kind  of  apprenticeship  you  need  to  become 


GENTLE  EX-LAX  HELPS 


YOU  TOWARD 


YOUR  NORMAL  REGULARITY 


TONIGHT— If  you  need  a  laxative, 
take  chocolated  Ex-Lax,  America's 
best-tasting  laxative.  Take  it  at  bed- 
time—it won't  disturb  your  sleep. 


IN  THE  MORNING  You  11  enjoy 
the  closest  thing  to  natural  action. 
No  discomfort  or  upset.  You'll  soon 
feel  like  yourself  again! 


NEXT  DAY— Ex-Lax  continues  to  help  you  toward  your  normal 
regularity.  You  hardly  ever  have  to  take  Ex-Lax  again  the  next  night! 


Buy  The  New  65 £  Size  — 
Save  As  Much  As  370 

Also  available  in 


EX- LAX 


304  and  1 

24  sizes 

THE    CHOCOLATED    LAXATIVE 

MORE 

PEOPLE 

USE     EX-LAX 

THAN     ANY     OTHER     LAXATIVE 

©1954  Ex. Lax  Inc. 

a  useful  "journeyman"  actor.  Subsequent- 
ly, I  returned  to  Erie  for  two  additional 
seasons  of  summer  stock  and  found  in  it 
the  kind  of  reward  and  spur  that  I  had 
always  hoped  for. 

I  have  never  found  the  stage  to  be  work 
in  the  toilsome  sense,  even  though  there 
have  been  times  when  I  was  ready  to 
drop  with  exhaustion.  I  don't  know  about 
other  professions,  but  it  has  always  seemed 
to  me  that  a  lively  interest  in  what  you're 
doing  is  necessary  for  any  job. 

There  are  a  lot  of  different  ways  of 
measuring  success  in  the  theater.  Some- 
times it  depends  on  your  point  of  view. 
What  I  think  of  as  my  first  big  success 
might  not  appear  to  the  average  person 
as  being  anything  to  brag  about.  The 
short  of  it  is  that  I  managed  to  get  a  "super" 
part  in  the  Broadway  presentation  of 
"Diamond  Lil."  Now,  a  "super"  is  any- 
thing but  a  lead.  The  word  is  literally 
short  for  "supernumerary,"  and  it  means 
just  that — one  of  the  rank-and-file;  some 
faceless,  nameless  nobody  in  a  mob  scene. 

But  any  professional  actor  knows  that 
very  few  people  ever  blaze  up  in  a  star 
part,  the  first  time  they  hit  Broadway — 
and  that,  even  if  a  novice  does  blaze  that 
way,  the  sudden  glow  is  often  followed  by 
sudden  extinction.  A  super's  role  is  a 
learner's  role;  a  part  which  can  be  played 
without  having  the  weight  of  the  whole 
show  on  one's  shoulders  and,  at  the  same 
time,  being  in  an  ideal  position  to  observe 
experienced    actors    work    at    close    range. 

It  wasn't  too  long  after  that  I  got  my 
first  chance  in  television.  Again,  it  was 
not  a  big  role — they  turned  me  into  a 
telephone  operator  on  The  Aldrich  Family. 
But,  like  getting  a  start  on-stage,  you've 
got  to  be  willing  to  make  a  start  in  any 
kind  of  role  if  you  intend  to  make  a  career 
out  of  appearing  before  the  TV  cameras. 
One    hard    fact   some    people    never   seem 


to  learn  is  that  an  actor  usually  starts 
getting  the  important  roles  when  he's 
ready  for  them,  and  not  before.  I  had 
some  inkling  of  this  before  I  started, 
which  was  part  of  the  good  fortune  of 
having  been  born  into  a  family  with  a 
number  of  show  people  in  it. 

There's  something  else  about  a  family 
like  that.  They  have  a  sympathetic  un- 
derstanding of  the  troubles  you're  going 
through — but,  when  they  criticize,  it's  not 
only  a  help,  it's  got  spurs  on  it. 

For  all  the  headaches  and  heartaches, 
and  the  climbing  of  ladders  with  sometimes 
broken  rungs,  there  are  moments  of  glory 
which  make  it  all  worth  while.  My  special 
moment  of  glory  came  on  the  day  they 
cast  me  in  a  role  opposite  the  idol  of  my 
young  stagestruck  life — my  first  audience! 
As  long  as  I  live,  I  will  thank  the  memory 
of  Ken  Murray  and  his  production  staff  for 
casting  me  in  a  scene  opposite  Douglas 
Fairbanks,  Jr. 

I  suppose  if  I  live  long  enough,  and 
learn  enough,  there  may  be  other  more 
important  and  critically  acceptable  roles 
for  me.  But,  so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  it 
is  unlikely  that  any  other  role  will  give 
me  exactly  the  same  kind  of  satisfaction. 
It  was  an  important  part,  and  I  liked 
that.  It  was  on  a  big  network  show,  and 
that  was  great  for  me,  too.  It  was  opposite 
one  of  the  best-known  personalities  in 
show  business,  and  that  was  purely  won- 
derful. But,  perhaps  most  important  of 
all,  it  was  a  chance  to  show  a  member  of 
the  family  that  Patty  had  come  up  a  notch 
in  the  profession  and  might  someday 
amount  to  something. 

It   seems   to   me   that    a    lot   of   my   life    T 

has  been  spent  in  going  contrary  to  family    V 

wishes.    I  suppose  I  ought  to  be  more  duti-     R 

ful,  but   I   have   admired   them   for   things 

they  have  done  on  their  own  and  I  have 

wanted   to  do   some  of  the  same  kind   of  or. 

o9 


90 


What 
a 

fgJjgf  I       ^   ^P 


Take 


Alka- 

Seltzer 

BRAND  fgf 

ACID  INDIGESTION 

Enjoy  triple -comfort  relief! 
ALKA-SELTZER  reduces  excess 
stomach  acidity  with  Instant  Alka- 
lizing Action . . .  soothes  your  stomach 
. . .  quickly  relieves  that 
"stuffy"  feeling! 


AT  AL1 

DRUG  COUNTERS 


MILES  LABORATORIES,  INC.,  ELKHART,  IND. 


00  IS  YOURS  EASILY 


For  Selling  Only  lOO  Boxes 
of  Our  Lovely  FLORAL 

EVERYDAY  GREETING  CARDS 

Their  beauty  and  value  sell  on  sight. 

You  make  75c  on  each  box.  New  21- 

Card  $1  Assortments,  unusual  Koda- 

chrome,  Lace  Tall  Cards.  New  Gift  Items,  100 

other  fast-sellers.  Cash  profits  to  150%  pins 

$10-$25-$50  in  Bonus  Gifts.  Get  FREE  Stationery  | 

Samples,  4  best  Assortments  on  approval.  $1 

Gift  Set  FREE  if  you  act  fast.  WRITE  NOWI 

CREATIVE  CARD  CO..  4401  Cermak  Rd. ,  Oept.  123-A,  Chicago  23,  III. 

FALSE  TEETH 

KLUTCH  holds  them  tighter 

KLUTCH  forms  a  comfort  cushion;  holds  dental  plates 
so  much  firmer  and  snugger  that  one  can  eat  and  talk 
with  greater  comfort  and  security;  in  many  cases  al- 
most as  well  as  with  natural  teeth.  Klutch  lessens  the 
constant  fear  of  a  dropping,  rocking,  chafing  plate.  35c 
and  60c  at  druggists.  If  your  druggist  hasn't  It, 
don't  waste  money  on  substitutes,  but  send  us  10c 
and  we  will  mail  you  a  generous  trial  box. 

KLUTCH  CO.,  Box  5586-B.  ELMIRA,  N.  Y. 


CANNON 
SHEETS     | 

GIVEN  TO  YOU  a 


HoImM 


': 


Vt'A  J 


ALSO — Batot     Bodspreads.      Drapes     .     Hoover     Vacuum 
Cleaner*    .    Dormcyer    Mixers    •    Presto    Steam     Irons    . 
Edwards    Silverware     .     China     •     Furniture 
Hundreds      of     famous      nationally 
ed      products      to      choc  < 
from       You     get     $25.00— $.10.00— 
Jiiio.iio    and    more    without   a 
PENNY   OF   cost   jual    by   being 
Secretary  of  a   Popular   Club  you 
holp    your    TrlcnclK    rurm.     N'ulhlng 
t'j    ill.  nothing  to  buy.   Prei 
for   all.    Write    today    for    FREE 
228  page   color  catalog. 

[Popular  Club  Plan,  DeptTi 'Hiot,  LynbrookTrTyTl 
Send   Big   FREE   FULL-COLOR   Catalog. 

I  j 

I   A'i'lrcBn I 

|    '  Slnlc ! 

Popular  Club  Secretarh       rou  will  automatically 
receive  tnli  new  catalog    Don 


things  on  my  own.  For  instance,  I  decided 
about  three  years  ago  that  I  wanted  to 
go  to  Europe.  By  that  time,  I  was  quite 
busy  and  reasonably  successful.  The 
family,  plus  everyone  else,  seemed  to 
join  in  one  loud  yell:  "Don't  go  to  Europe!" 

So  I  went,  anyway. 

Together  with  the  girl  I  was  rooming 
with  at  the  time — and  $500 — I  went  to 
Europe.  We  saw  Paris  and  Munich,  and 
had  a  wild  and  funny  time  doing  it.  And 
we  saw  England — particularly  England — 
and  all  the  stage  shows  we  could  walk  to, 
or  drive  to,  or  get  to  even  if  it  took  a  pogo 
stick. 

As  matters  turned  out,  I  was  right  and 
the  family  was  wrong — about  that  trip, 
anyhow — because  when  I  got  back  to  New 
York  I  found  more  and  more  work  to  do 
and,  apparently,  no  damage  done  for  hav- 
ing played  truant.  At  least  I  like  to  tell 
myself  that  there  wasn't  and  that,  after  all, 
it  was  in  the  interest  of  my  "art" — I  can 
now  muster  up  a  pretty  fair  British  accent 
if  I'm  ever  called  on  for  it. 

But — to  bring  this  thing  down  to  present 
considerations  and  my  life  in  a  bucket  seat 
aboard  the  outer  rim  of  a  pinwheel — my 
work  week  starts  on  Sunday  evening,  and 
it  doesn't  let  up  until  the  following  Friday 
afternoon.  Here's  about  how  the  schedule 
works  out:  On  Sunday,  I  have  to  get  my 
clrthes  pretty  much  in  shape  for  the  fol- 
lowing week,  because  there  won't  be  much 
time  to  do  it  in  the  daily  schedule.  Then 
I  have  to  study  my  role  for  Monday's 
show. 

Eventually,  I  stagger  off  to  sleep  with  an 
ear  cocked  for  that  (nine  bad  words)  alarm 
clock.  Like  an  electric  shock  all  along  the 
spinal  column,  it  routs  me  out  to  stagger 
through  what  are  described  as  "morning 
ablutions"  and  a  fast  pass  at  the  make-up. 
Somewhere  between  speeches  read  aloud, 
through  mouthfuls   of  toast  and   coffee,   I 


get  in  another  private  rehearsal.  If  I  get 
caught  up  on  the  world's  events  at  all,  it's 
because  the  cabby  was  thoughtful  enough 
to  lend  me  his  newspaper  on  the  brief  run 
to  the  studio. 

Once  arrived,  all  seems  to  be  confusion. 
Everyone  associated  with  the  show  is 
trying  frantically  to  remember  where 
things  were  when  we  left  off  Friday. 
Final  rehearsal  is  strictly  a  dark  horse  out 
of  Madness  by  Iconoscope.  Then,  for  about 
fifteen  minutes,  we  turn  into  a  bunch  of 
expert  workmen,  beginning  to  live  the 
lives  of  other  people,  who  must  be  believ- 
able and  honest  for  the  television  audience. 

Almost  before  we  have  had  time  to  get 
off  the  air,  we  have  been  plunged  into 
another  rehearsal  in  preparation  for  the 
next  day.  Finally,  I  get  a  chance  to  eat 
a  hurried  lunch  before  other  possible  re- 
hearsals or  more  study  for  the  following 
day.  Up  until  my  bedtime,  I  am  still  im- 
mersed in  the  next  day's  events,  and  then 
— it  seems  like  five  minutes — there's  that 
(14  bad  words)   alarm  clock  again. 

If  I  were  bored  with  my  job,  the  life  I 
lead  would  probably  be  pretty  frustrating. 
But  it  is  anything  but  boredom.  The  people 
who  are  around  me,  in  this  daily  frenzy, 
are  all  as  dedicated  as  I  am,  as  willing  to 
overlook  faults,  as  willing  to  make  the 
final  effort  to  produce  something  living 
for  the  television  audience.  It  would  be 
a  very  dull  world  indeed  without  that  kind 
of  spirit. 

I  suppose  there  may  come  a  time  when 
all  of  this  may  seem  like  "just  another 
job."  If  it  does,  then  I  propose  to  be 
something  else.  I  think  that  a  home  and 
a  family  of  my  own  could  be  pretty  ex- 
citing, too.  And  I  would  like  to  think  that 
there  will  come  a  day  when  another  little 
Patty  will  be  around  to  play  a  dream 
scene  with  a  hero  who — to  grown-up  eyes 
— is   only   a  big  tree  in  some   back  yard. 


His  Humor  Just  Happens 


(Continued  from  page  58) 
silence  greeted  him.  Then  even  the  casual 
chatter  at  the  back  of  the  room  stopped. 
Then,  at  a  ringside  table,  a  thick-tongued 
customer  remarked  heavily,  "This  is  a 
comedian?" 

Recalling  it,  David  Baumgarten — now  a 
vice-president  of  the  important  Music 
Corporation  of  America — still  groans.  He 
says,  "George  should  never  have  been 
booked  into  that  club.  It  was  a  place  for 
a  loud,  knockdown  comic  who  could  out- 
shout  the  mob.  That  was  George  Gobel's 
absolute  low  point.  He  opened  and  closed 
the  same  night." 

Yet,  six  years  later — when  most  of  the 
"knockdown"  comics  were  having  trouble 
with  their  TV  ratings — George  Gobel, 
with  his  mild-mannered  humor  (which  so 
often  sparks  from  comments  to  his  wife, 
Alice),  had  won  a  warm  welcome  in  the 
living  rooms  of  the  nation. 

The  words  "surprise  discovery"  which 
appeared  in  so  many  TV  reviews,  brought 
hoots  of  protest  from  the  friends  which 
thirty-four-year-old  George  Gobel  has 
made  during  his  twenty-two  years  as  a 
professional  entertainer. 

One  of  the  loudest  came  from  Garry 
Moore,  who  gave  the  straight-faced  hu- 
morist his  first  multiple  bookings  on  a 
TV  network.  Said  Garry,  "For  years, 
some  of  us  have  been  talking  about 
George  and  trying  to  point  out  to  certain 
New  Yorkers  that  there's  a  whole  differ- 
ent world  on  the  other  side  of  the  Hudson 
River — a  world  which  doesn't  care  what 
is  the  week's  top  two-line  gag  at  Lindy's. 
In  George,  you  have  another  example  of 
that  Chicago  school  of  broadcasting  which 
includes  Dave  Garroway  and  Fran  Alli- 
son's Aunt  Fanny  and  reaches  clear  back 


to  Fibber  McGee  and  Molly."  (It  also  in- 
cludes Garry  Moore,  even  though  he  was 
too  modest  to  add  his  own  name.) 

Garry  went  on  to  analyze  their  appeal 
and  charm:  "They  have  a  humor  which  is 
based  on  respect  for  the  individual,  how- 
ever tormented  he  may  be  by  circum- 
stances. They  never  get  their  laughs  at  the 
expense  of  ridiculing  someone.  Because 
their  humor  has  its  roots  in  everyday 
living,  they  stay  fresh  and  never  'use  up' 
their  material.  By  his  way  of  drawing 
from  experiences  everyone  shares,  Gobel 
has  become  a  sort  of  spokesman  for  the 
average    guy." 

George  himself,  during  a  broadcast,  ex- 
pressed the  same  idea  this  way:  "I  am 
one  common  man  and  you  can't  hardly  get 
them  no  more." 

Gobel's  own  background  and  experiences 
bear  out  this  claim.  He  shares  the  same 
values,  the  same  aims,  as  the  people  who 
have  found  new  delight  in  his  shows.  The 
major  influences  during  his  youth  were 
his  parents,  his  church  and  his  best  girl. 
Today,  his  personal  life  centers  around  his 
family  and  his  friends,  and  his  aim  is  to 
provide  a  secure  future  for  Alice  and  their 
children:  Gregg,  9;  Georgia,  4;  and  Leslie,  1. 

It  was  his  parents,  Lillian  and  Herman 
Gobel,  who — in  addition  to  giving  their 
only  child  love  and  security — also  provided 
him  with  his  first  "listening  post."  The 
neighborhood  grocery  store  which  they 
owned  on  Chicago's  West  Side  was  a 
friendly  place  where  customers  talked 
about  the  happenings  in  their  own  lives. 
There,  George's  ear  was  first  attuned  to 
the  way  the  working  people  of  the  world 
expressed  their  hopes  and  fears — and,  with 
the  saving  grace  of  humor,  laughed  at 
their    own    frustrations.    George    listened, 


learned  and  then  imitated  them  at  home. 

The  church  which  played  a  key  role  in 
his  career  is,  suitably  enough,  St.  Steph- 
en's, the  smallest  in  the  Episcopal  Diocese 
of  Chicago.  There,  the  Rev.  Irwin  St.  John 
Tucker — "Friar  Tuck,"  in  newspapermen's 
parlance,  for  he  also  works  on  the  copy 
desk  at  the  Chicago  American — adminis- 
ters his  church  with  the  belief  that  every- 
one should  use  all  of  his  God-given  tal- 
ents. Although  most  of  his  parishioners 
work  in  near-by  factories,  he  encourages 
them  to  explore  the  arts.  When  little 
George  Gobel  turned  up,  possessed  of  a 
remarkable  soprano  voice,  Friar  Tuck  got 
him  his  first  big  audience  by  arranging  to 
have  the  choir  sing  at  Station  WLS. 

At  WLS,  George  Biggar,  program  direc- 
tor, became  the  first  of  the  long  line  of 
George's  professional  "discoverers."  He 
put  George,  at  twelve,  into  a  Barn  Dance 
unit,   singing   and  playing   his  guitar. 

When  George  added  acting  roles  in  day- 
time serials  and  children's  programs  to  his 
schedule,  his  best  girl  became  the  one 
who  kept  him  out  of  scholastic  trouble  at 
Roosevelt  High  School.  She  was  dark, 
dimpled  Alice  Humecki — petite,  smart,  and 
almost  as  quick  with  a  quip  as  George  is. 
He  describes  their  romance  and  enduring 
partnership  in  Gobel  fashion:  "She  did  my 
homework,  so  I  figured  I  might  as  well 
marry  her.  That  was  the  least  I  could  do." 

A  more  revealing  evidence  of  their  deep 
attachment  is  found  in  George's  determi- 
nation to  be  home  when  their  first  child 
was  to  be  born.  By  that  time,  war  had  been 
declared  and  George,  who  had  earned  his 
pilot's  license  before  his  enlistment,  was 
an  instructor  of  B-26  pilots  at  a  base  near 
Frederick,  Oklahoma.  When  Alice  phoned 
she  was  ready  to  go  to  the  hospital,  he 
induced  his  commanding  officer  to  lend 
him  a  plane.  The  official  reason  for  the 
mission  was  so  flimsy  that  the  officer  speci- 
fied there  was  to  be  no  publicity. 

But,  just  as  they  do  in  his  TV  sketches, 
things  always  happen  to  George  Gobel. 
Piloting  one  of  the  fastest  ships  then  in 
existence,  his  flight  to  Chicago  was  swift. 
His  taxi  ride  in  from  the  airport,  how- 
ever, was  impeded  and  circuitous  and 
actually  took  longer  than  the  flight  from 
Oklahoma.  Thinking  it  a  good  story,  a 
friend  at  WLS  tipped  off  Larry  Wolters, 
radio  editor  of  the  Chicago  Tribune.  The 
Tribune  clocked  and  mapped  both  routes. 
George,  when  he  returned  to  base,  had  his 
new-parent  pride  swiftly  deflated  by  an 
irate  officer  who  waved  the  Tribune  clip- 
ping and  demanded,  "You  call  this  'no 
publicity'?" 

That  and  other  stories  made  good  telling 
while  the  guys  stood  around  shooting  the 
breeze.  And  George  was  a  natural  choice 
whenever  there  was  a  call  for  entertain- 
ers at  a  camp  program.  He  started  out 
with  his  songs  and  his  guitar,  but  the  other 
guys  yelled  for  his  stories,  too.  Thus,  he 
added    comedy    to    his  professional    act. 

At  war's  end,  George's  story-telling  and 
his  flying  combined  to  bring  into  his  life 
three  new  friends  who  were  to  play  de- 
finitive roles  in  his  career.  The  first  was 
David  P.  O'Malley— "Mr.  O,"  George  calls 
him— a  white-haired,  red-faced,  hearty 
Irishman  who  specialized  in  booking  "club 
dates,"  supplying  entertainment  for  lodges, 
conventions  and  sales  meetings. 

As  his  manager,  O'Malley  became  the 
trusted  adviser  who  has  handled  George's 
business  affairs  shrewdly  and  planned  his 
career  wisely.  They  are  now  partners  in 
Gomalco  Enterprises,  producers  of  George's 
TV  show. 

The  two  other  friends  who  strongly  in- 
fluenced Gobel's  post-war  progress  were 
the  brothers  Bill  and  Frank  Helsing.  Bill 
managed  Sky  Harbor  airport,  while  Frank 
ran  Helsing's  Vodeville  Lounge,  a  north- 
side  night  club.   George,  having  the   idea 


that  a  nice,  steady  income  as  a  commer- 
cial pilot  would  be  a  good  thing  for  a  man 
with  a  wife  and  child  to  support,  turned 
up  at  Sky  Harbor,  asking  for  a  job.  Un- 
fortunately, a  notably  large  number  of  his 
fellow  explorers  of  the  wild  blue  yonder 
had  the  same  notion.  When  Bill  Helsing 
was  unable,  to  work  George  in  as  a  pilot, 
he  sent  him  to  see  Frank  at  the  night  club. 

In  a  recent  TV  sketch,  viewers  had  an 
intimation  of  what  this  man  meant  to  the 
aspiring  performer.  The  televised  situation 
called  for  George  to  cope  with  the  com- 
plications of  an  unemployment-insurance 
office.  Intimates  garnered  an  extra  chuckle 
from  the  identification  sign  on  the  coun- 
selor's desk — "Frank  Helsing."  For  a  num- 
ber of  years,  the  night-club  proprietor 
proved  to  be  exactly  that  for  George — his 
counselor.  When  other  bookings  failed  to 
materialize,  he  could  always  go  back  to 
Helsing's. 

The  Helsing's  engagements  also  led  to 
George's  introduction  to  TV.  Ted  Mills — 
now  an  NBC  producer  in  New  York — was 
then  at  the  Chicago  Tribune's  newly- 
opened  station,  WGN-TV.  He  recalls,  "I 
caught  George's  act  and  thought  he  was 
the  only  night-club  entertainer  who  could 
take  his  act,  intact,  into  a  family's  home." 

Gobel  did  indeed  fit  into  what  Mills  was 
the  first  to  describe  as  "the  relaxed,  Chi- 
cago school  of  television."  But  Mr.  O's 
ability  as  a  booker  had  already  diverted 
George  to  more  profitable  fields. 

Mills  ruefully  recalls,  "I  got  him  for  a 
couple  of  appearances  on  Club  TV,  which 
pretty  much  centered  around  the  Honey 
Dreamers.  And,  after  I  moved  to  NBC,  I 
planned  a  projected  show  around  him.  But, 
already,  he  was  making  so  much  money  on 
club   dates  that  we  couldn't   afford  him." 

It  was  backstage  during  one  of  those 
Club  TV  telecasts  that  George  first  met  the 
Honey  Dreamers,  their  manager,  Art 
Ward,  and  their  arranger,  Bob  Davis,  who 
is  married  to  one  of  the  singers,  Marion 
Bye.  The  Davises  and  the  Wards  (Art  and 
Sylvia)  were  destined  to  become  the 
cross-country  equivalents  of  next-door 
neighbors  to  the  Gobels.  When  show-busi- 
ness bookings  have  separated  them,  they've 
been  known  to  drive  hundreds  of  miles 
just  to  spend  an  evening  together. 

Marion  Bye  Davis  recalls  how  their 
friendship  began.  "Standing  in  the  wings, 
waiting  to  go  on,  Bob  and  I  started  to 
talk  to  George.  When  we  came  off,  after 
doing  our  number,  he  was  wringing  his 
hands.  He  positively  moaned,  'How  can  I 
follow  anyone  as  good  as  you?  I'll  die  out 
there.'  Then  he  went  on  with  that  line  of 
his,  different  from  anything  else  we  had 
ever  heard.  Right  there,  Bob  and  I  decided 
this  guy  was  for  us.  We  asked  him  out  to 
dinner,  then  of  course  we  had  to  meet 
Alice  and  we  were  crazy  about  her,  too." 

Marion  adds,  "She  always  seems  to  be 
a  half-step  ahead  of  George.  While  he's 
working,  she's  thinking  about  what  ought 
to  happen  next.  She  knows  what  he's 
capable  of  doing  before  he  himself  knows. 
Her  ways  of  letting  him  know  about  it  are 
a  bit  unusual.  Take  Jaybell.  .  ." 

Jaybell,  it  appears,  was  an  Afghan 
hound,  presented  to  George  by  a  night 
club  owner  who  had  four.  George,  who 
hadn't  been  home  in  six  weeks,  loaded 
the  beast  into  the  car  and  arrived  in  his 
own  back  yard  at  6:00  A.M.  With  Jaybell 
at  his  heels,  he  sneaked  upstairs.  Opening 
one  eye,  Alice  gave  him  a  big  welcome: 
"Hi,  honey."  Then  she  opened  the  other 
eye  and  saw  the  hound.  She  dove  under 
the  covers  and  lay  still  for  several  min- 
utes. Cautiously  she  peeked  out,  then 
glared  at  George.  "That's  all  I  needed — 
a  mountain  goat!" 

But  Jaybell  proved  useful  in  Alice's 
scheme  of  things.  The  next  time  George 
came    home    from    an    engagement,    Alice, 


PROPORTION-IZED 

Half-Size 

FASHION    CATALOG 

FREE 


Everything  for  YOU 
who  wear  Half-Sizes! 
Enjoy  better  fit  and  save 
money.  Shop  by  mail 
from  big  Hayes  Catalog 
of  Fashions  in  sizes  12  V2 
to  26 1/2  —  all  correctly 
Proportion-ized  for  you. 

Note  the  smart   piping 

and  attractively  placed 

buttons  of  this  printed 

80-square  Percale  Frock. 

It's  Proportion-ized  to 

fit  your  half-size  figure 

perfectly,  and  only  $2.98. 

Others  to  $16.98.  Coats 

$10.98    up.   Also   suits, 

sportswear,  underwear. 

Mail  coupon  for  FREE 
Hayes  Style  Catalog. 


HARD  OF  HEARING 

TV-Radio  programs  enjoyed  without  annoying  others. 
Easily  attached  to  set  speaker.  Complete  attachment  with 
instructions,  S14.95.  Details  free.  T  &  S  Enterprises,  Inc., 
Box  271,  Spartanburg,  S.  C. 


Shipped 
Direct 

from  Our 
Mill 


Jape30%toAQ% 
on  your  flew  -Home 


You  can  save  several  thousand  dollars  when  you  build 
a  Liberty  Home!  Buy  direct  from  our  mill  at  our  low, 
factory,  freight-paid  price.  We  ship  you  the  lumber  cut- 
to-fit,  ready  to  erect.  Doors,  windows,  roofing,  paint, 
glass,  hardware,  nails,  etc.,  all  included  in  the  price, 
Plans  furnished — also  complete  building  instructions.  No 
wonder  our  customers  write  that  we  saved  them  30% 
to  40%.  Easy  terms — monthly  payments.  Architecturally 
approved   construction.  (Not  prefabricated.) 

Handsome  Big  CATALOGUE 
Pictures    wonderful     homes    in    colors    at 
money-saving     prices.     Write     for     FREE 
catalogue    today.    (West    of    Mississippi, 
35c) 


BIG  BGDK 
House  Plans! 

<«  Color  i    | 

FREE 


LEWIS    MANUFACTURING    CO. 

4152   Lafayette  Ave.  Bay  City,   Mich. 


91 


free  I 

LARGER  I 
WOMEN 

CATALOG   " 

of  Hard-To-Find 

YOUTHFULLY 

STYLED  FASHIONS 


Mail  Coupon  Below 
FREE  fashion  book 
of  this  Spring's 
youthfully  styled  dresses,  coats,  sportswear,  corsets, 
underwear  and  shoes.  All  guaranteed  to  f it . .  .  to 
make  you  look  sizes  slimmer,  smarter,  younger. 

If  you  are  a  shorter 
woman,   you'll   see 
a  complete  selection  of  the  new,  young,  figure  slim- 
ming  styles  proportioned-to-fit  you  perfectly. 
Send  (or  this  FREE  Fashion  Book  TODAY. 

\T%    _-_-a_A?     FIFTH  AVENUE  al  39th  Street  . 
KOOHlttlV'    »ep».  T-M   New  York  18,  N.  Y.  I 


STOUT  SIZES  38  to  52 


HALF  SIZES   16,/2to26'/i 


name 

ADDRESS. 


TOWN- 


RUSH  me  new  FREE  Catalog  | 
—  I 


.STATE- 


IN    HOME    TRAINING 
For  Nursing  the  Sick 

Earn  high  pay  caring  for  the  sic1*— 
widespread  need.  Men  and  women  17 
to  60  can  learn  in  spare  time  to  be 
practical  nurse,  infant  nurse,  nurse's  aid.  Fully  illus- 
trated course,  written  in  simple  language  by  doctors, 
tested  in  clinic.  High  School  not  needed.  Easy  pay- 
ments—earn as  you  learn.  Free  booklet  tells  about 
immediate    job   opportunities.    Write    to 

GLENWOOD  CAREER  SCHOOLS 

7050    Glenwood    Ave,    Dept.     N15-2,    Chicago    26,     III. 


Cash  In  On  EVERY  Occasion 

with  MIDWEST  Greeting  Cards 

Make  bigger  profits  all  year.  Show 

friendsfast-selling  Valentines, Easter. 

Mother's,  Father's  Day  Cards,  plus 

-  best  Bi  rthday ,  Get- Well  assortments. 

etc  6  new  Valentine  packs.  SecretPal 

*  Cards,  unusual  new  ideas,  exceptional 

P  bargains  in  Cards,  Notes,  Gifts,  Gadgets, 

rr  Personalized  Stationery.  Profits  to  100% 

r  on  big  line.  Samples  on  approval.  Write. 

M  lowest  Card  Co..  1 11 3  Washington  Ave. ,  Dept  R-35,  St.  Louis  1 ,  Mo. 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  3  x  10  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bast 
form,  tcroups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  group  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 


67 


SendNoMoney  3  for?]50 

"  «t  mall  photo,  negative  or  snap-  .j\ 

ot  (any   nize)  and  receive  your  enlargement.  E.-1 
arnn  t  fed  fuddle  v  ,  ;n  !..-:■  titif  ul  double-  woieht 

irtralt  quality  paper.  Pay  pontmnn  67c  plus  IX,  ..a 


Jo 

■hot  ( 

gunra 

portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postr 

I--,     t:u-> -in I  ','.).-    '.'.  itli  order  nnd  <.:■•■    [>:i  y  [jO',1  ■ 

age.  Take  advantage  of  thfa  amazing  offer.  Sendyour  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dept.  35-B,  Princeton,  Illinois 


Corns 


. . .  Sore  Toes, 
Tender  Spots? 


92 


Super-Soft  Dr.  Scholl's 

Zino-pads  not  only  give  you 

fast,  nerve-deep  relief . . .  stop 

corns  before  they  can  start  .  .  . 

remove  corns  one  of  the  quii 

est  ways  known  to  medical  science-^™ 

but  also  ease  new  or  tight  shoesl  No  other  method 

docs  all  these  things.  So,  insist  on  Dr.  Scholl's! 


**W  D-rScholls  lino-pad, 


meeting  him  at  the  airport,  was  driving  a 
new  Studebaker.  "We  needed  it  to  show 
off  the  dog,"  she  explained  blandly. 

The  truth  was  that  George  could  well 
afford  a  new  car  at  that  time,  for  his  star 
was  rising,  thanks  both  to  Mr.  O's  guid- 
ance and  the  enthusiasm  of  the  friends  he 
made  wherever  he  worked. 

Art  Ward  remarks,  "Everyone  did  the 
same  thing  we  did.  Wherever  we  worked, 
we'd  tell  our  bosses  about  this  new 
comedian,  George  Gobel." 

Says  Dave  Baumgarten,  "That's  the  way 
MCA  got  interested  in  him,  too.  Jim  Bray- 
ley — who  then  managed  our  Chicago  office 
— and  I  were  sort  of  bringing  up  a  young 
singer,  Jeanne  Shirley,  whom  we  had  dis- 
covered at  Northwestern,  and  who  was 
headed  for  stardom  until  she  quit  and  got 
married.  Appearing  on  the  same  bill  with 
George,  she  told  us  about  him." 

Having  powerful  MCA  searching  out 
bookings  for  him  should  have  marked  the 
end  of  his  club-date  apprenticeship  and 
his  advent  into  the  top  spots  of  the  nation. 
Instead,  his  bookings  see-sawed,  and  the 
fiasco  in  the  raucous  New  York  club  was 
a  body  blow. 

Y  et,  in  the  depths  of  his  discouragement, 
someone  always  turned  up  to  appreciate 
his  style.  When,  in  Detroit,  he  played  his 
first  engagement  for  the  Statler  hotel 
chain,  there  were  just  sixteen  people  in 
the  room.  However,  one  of  those  people 
was  William  O.  Douglas,  Associate  Justice 
of  the  Supreme  Court  and  brother  of 
Arthur  Douglas,  president  of  the  Statler 
Hotels.  Justice  Douglas  found  the  Gobel 
humor  much  to  his  liking  and  said  so. 

George  made  his  second  approach  to 
New  York  warily.  Baumgarten  and  O'Mal- 
ley  chose  the  spot  with  care  and  put  him 
into  the  Hotel  Pierre.  With  Alice  stand- 
ing nervous  and  wet-palmed  in  the  wings, 
George  worried  himself  onto  the  stage. 
He  was  met  with  laughter  and  understand- 
ing. Here,  at  last,  was  a  New  York  book- 
ing to  his  liking. 

The  remaining  high  points  of  his  see- 
saw career  history  are  quickly  outlined: 
In  the  summer  of  1952,  he  made  his  first 
New  York  TV  appearance  (for  one  hun- 
dred dollars)  on  Bill  Stern's  show  at  the 
Astor  Roof.  The  Toast  Of  The  Town  ap- 
pearance came  next,  and  led  to  bookings 
on  Garry  Moore's  program.  These  brought 
him  a  "summer  replacement"  stint — seven 
shows — on  Saturday  Night  Revue.  Because 
of  this  success,  NBC  placed  him  under 
contract  and  moved  his  family  from  Chi- 
cago to  the  West  Coast.  They  did  not,  how- 
ever, find  air  time  for  him. 

With  a  regular  NBC  salary  being  paid 
him  for  doing  nothing,  George  went  back 
to  the  night  clubs,  worrying  whether  he 
ever  would  get  a  chance  to  show  his  face 
to  a  TV  camera.  Then,  finally,  NBC  agreed 
to  put  him  into  the  Saturday-night  time 
being  vacated  by  Your  Show  Of  Shows. 
Since  then,  he  has  become  NBC's  biggest 
bargain. 

While  such  incidents  tell  the  Gobel  suc- 
cess story,  his  friends  will  talk  happily 
for  hours,  analyzing  the  human  story  of 
the  Gobels'  attitudes  and  actions. 

The  first  division  of  their  anecdotes 
contradicts  George's  on-the-air  wail, 
"Alice,  I  can't  be  funny  all  the  time." 
Both  Alice  and  George  are  just  as  witty 
off  stage  as  he  is  on,  say  their  friends,  and 
cite  instances  to  prove  it. 

Says  Marion,  "You'd  think  no  one 
could  make  a  joke  of  having  a  flat  tire  on 
the  Jersey  Turnpike  at  two  o'clock  in  the 
morning.  But,  the  morning  that  happened 
to  us,  as  we  were  all  driving  back  from  a 
Philadelphia  show,  George — trying  to  be 
helpful  and  standing  around  talking — put 
Bob  into  such  stitches  he  couldn't  change 
the  tire!" 


His  absolute  honesty,  his  lack  of  pre- 
tense or  egotism,  and  his  naive  attitude 
toward  money  ("That's  Mr.  O.'s  depart- 
ment")  produce  another  set  of  anecdotes. 

Says  Dave  Baumgarten,  "In  contracts, 
George  is  the  performer  who  never  plays 
an  angle.  You  can  depend  upon  him  to  do 
exactly  what  he  promises  to  do,  and  he 
expects  the  same  kind  of  treatment  from 
others.  If  he  suspects  someone  of  olfering 
a  sharp  contract,  he  always  questions  it 
by  saying,  'Dave,  there  isn't  anything 
kinky  about  this,  is  there?'" 

George's  acute  distress  when  once  he 
himself  got  into  a  momentarily  question- 
able financial  predicament  gives  Art  Ward 
one  of  his  best  Gobel  stories. 

It  happened  during  that  first  important 
engagement  at  the  Pierre.  Although  he 
was  being  paid  a  sizable  fee,  the  checks 
were  sent  direct  to  Dave  O'Malley's  office 
in  Chicago  and  George,  following  his  usual 
policy  of  living  on  much  less  than  his  in- 
come, was  drawing  only  $150  a  week — 
which  vanished  fast  in  Manhattan. 

He  and  Alice  were  staying  at  a  far- 
from-swanky  Broadway  hotel,  where  the 
management  had  no  idea  who  they  were 
and  consequently  required  that  they  pay 
their  hotel  bill  in  cash  every  three  days. 

Says  Art,  "The  first  time  George  ran 
short,  he  yelled  to  me  and  I  rescued  him. 
Then  came  the  day  when  somebody 
goofed  and  his  allowance  check,  which 
should  have  been  in  on  Friday,  was  still 
missing  on  Monday.  George  and  Alice 
were  down  to  their  last  dime  when  some- 
one, dignified  as  all  get-out,  called  to  an- 
nounce he  was  the  assistant  manager  and 
how's  about  getting  up  a  little  scratch  to 
pay  the  bill. 

"George,  thinking  it  was  me — ribbing 
him — really  put  on  an  act.  They  were 
about  to  go  out,  he  informed  the  caller. 
What's  more,  they  had  just  opened  up  a 
bottle  of  pop  and,  if  the  guy  wanted  a 
drink,  he'd  better  get  up  there  pronto.  A 
few  minutes  later,  there  was  a  knock  at 
the  door  and  they  discovered  it  actually 
was  the  assistant  manager,  toting  the  bill. 
Poor  George  darned  near  died.  He  gave 
the  man  a  check.  But,  since  Alice  had  been 
doing  a  little  Fifth  Avenue  shopping,  their 
personal  account  was  pretty  anaemic,  too." 

{■'obel's  reaction  was  intense.  Says  Art, 
"He  got  on  the  horn — that's  his  word  for 
telephone — and  called  Chicago.  He  also 
called  me,  and  no  monologue  he's  ever 
done  on  the  air  could  compare  with  it. 
You'd  have  thought  he  was  headed  straight 
for  Leavenworth.  It  didn't  matter  to  him 
that  he  actually  had  a  good,  substantial 
sum  in  the  company  account  and  that  it 
would  take  only  minutes  to  transfer  the 
funds  in  the  Chicago  bank.  The  way  he 
saw  it,  he  had  done  something  which 
violated  his  own  sense  of  honesty  and  he 
was  having  fits." 

Marion  takes  up  the  story.  "That's  all 
George  wanted  of  that  hotel.  When  Alice 
had  to  go  home  to  the  kids,  he  phoned 
us  and  announced  he  couldn't  stand  that 
mousetrap  another  day.  He  came  out  to 
our  house  and — for  the  rest  of  the  engage- 
ment— slept  on  a  cot  back  of  the  piano, 
happy   as  a  country   cousin." 

Home  parties,  either  at  their  own  home 
or  at  friends  like  the  Davises  and  the 
Wards,  are  still  George  and  Alice  Gobel's 
favorite  entertainment.  Says  Art,  "There's 
where  he  works  up  his  new  stories.  He 
buys  some  material,  of  course,  but  whether 
he  buys  it  or  dreams  it  up  himself,  he 
works  it  over  until  it  is  thoroughly  his. 
I've  seen  him  take  as  long  as  six  months, 
telling  a  story  over  and  over  again  to  his 
friends,  before  he  was  satisfied  to  use  it." 

But,  that's  what  makes  George  Gobel 
that  common  man — "and  you  can't  hardly 
get   them  no  more." 


Little  Black  Lamb 


(Continued  from  page  40) 
farm,  my  father  was  not  a  farmer — he  was 
a  plumber.  He  and  Mother  had  moved  there 
from  DuBois,  Pennsylvania,  and  Dad  con- 
ducted his  plumbing  business  right  from 
the  farm.  The  actual  work  of  farming  the 
place  was  handled  by  a  tenant  farmer  who 
also  had  his  house  there.  We  were  a  big 
family — there  were  eleven  of  us  children — 
but,  for  all  that,  I  had  a  somewhat  lonely 
childhood.  You  see,  I  came  along  as  the  last 
of  the  line,  and  my  brothers  and  sisters 
were  all  older.  While  they  played  with  me 
and  loved  me  nearly  to  death,  it  wasn't 
quite  the  same  thing  as  having  someone 
near  my  own  age  to  play  with.  Of  course, 
I  had  friends  my  own  age,  but  it  is  not  as 
handy  for  youngsters  to  get  together  in 
farm  country  as  it  is  in  town. 

But  there  are  other  compensations  in  farm 
life,  and  there  was  certainly  no  lack  of  hap- 
piness in  my  family.  One  of  my  greatest 
friends  was  a  Shetland  pony  named  Jack. 
He  had  been  around  so  long,  he  was  almost 
a  part  of  the  family,  and  he  was  more  faith- 
ful than  any  dog  I've  ever  known. 

i  he  family  itself  was  a  happy  one  to  be 
around.  We  were  a  singing  family — not  in 
a  professional  sense,  but  simply  because  we 
liked  to  sing.  That's  usually  a  good  sign  of 
people  who  are  at  peace  with  one  another 
and  enjoy  being  together.  In  my  case,  the 
singing  seems  to  have  rubbed  off  in  a  per- 
manent way.  I  don't  remember  this,  be- 
cause I  was  too  young  to  recall  it,  but  it 
seems  that  I  learned  some  of  the  popular 
songs  my  sisters  were  singing  while  I  was 
still  in  a  high-chair.  They  took  me  to  make 
my  "singing  debut"  at  the  First  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church  in  Fredonia  when  I  was 
21  months  old.  After  that,  I  had  a  lot  of 
encouragement  from  my  sister  Edna,  who 
was  a  music  teacher,  and  by  the  time  I  was 
four  years  old  she  had  me  singing  not  only 
in  English  but  in  French. 

Now  that  I  look  back  on  it,  it  seems  to 
me  that  I  am  almost  entirely  a  product  of 
my  childhood  years.  There's  the  singing,  for 
one  thing.  There's  also  the  reverence  for 
God  that  comes  from  long  years  of  choir 
singing.  And — I  suppose  this  is  kind  of 
an  amusing  offshoot — there's  some  profi- 
ciency in  golf,  traceable  to  the  fact  that  I 
was  a  tomboy. 

I  must  have  been  a  burden  to  other  girls 
in  my  grades  at  Orr  School  in  Fredonia,  be- 
cause I  couldn't  be  bothered  with  the  sissy 
kind  of  baseball  they  played  on  the  girls' 
side  of  the  school  yard!  I  was  always  over 
fielding  or  batting  on  the  boys'  side  of  the 
grounds!  And,  instead  of  always  playing 
with  dolls,  I  found  a  friend  who  would  go 
hiking  with  me,  JoAnn  Marstellar.  We 
would  hike  and  go  sledding  and  come  back 
all  frost-nipped  and  ready  for  hot  cocoa. 

I  didn't  know  it  at  the  time,  but  I  made 
my  start  along  the  road  to  professional 
singing  when  I  entered  Fredonia  High 
School.  Aside  from  the  scholastic  pursuits, 
my  life  there  seems  to  have  been  one  long 
series  of  high  school  plays,  operettas  and 
concerts.  Together  with  Sevilla  Kraemer 
and  Doris  Reichert,  I  helped  form  a  trio 
and  we  became  the  belles  of  the  banquets 
around  that  section  of  Pennsylvania.  We 
even  made  it  all  the  way  to  one  of  the  state 
singing  contests,  but  our  singing  was  a 
little  sharp  and  we  finished  in  second  place. 

My  sister  Edna  had  taught  me  all  she 
could  about  singing  and  music  generally, 
and  during  my  senior  year  in  high  school 
I  was  taken  under  the  particular  wing  of 
Carolin  Snider  (now  Berkley),  who  was  a 
singing  teacher  and  who  eventually  became 
a  very  close  friend  of  mine.  She  taught  me 
about  breathing,  phrasing,  and  all  the  other 
elements  that  a  singer  must  know. 

At   the    time    of    graduation    from    high 


school,  some  youngsters  are  undecided 
about  a  career.  As  for  me,  I  had  never 
wanted  to  do  anything  but  sing,  from  my 
earliest  days  in  grade  school.  It  was  almost 
automatic  that,  in  a  very  short  time,  I 
should  find  myself  singing  professionally 
with  Bob  Collar's  orchestra.  This  was  a 
five-piece  "combo"  that  played  the  country 
clubs  and  high  school  proms  around  that 
part  of  the  state.  During  the  next  four 
years,  I  was  always  busy,  but  never  very 
far  away  from  home.  We  were  out  on  a 
date  somewhere  almost  every  night  in  the 
week.  While  it  involved  a  very  great  deal 
of  hard  work  and  a  lot  of  driving,  I  often 
think  of  it  as  being  the  most  essential  time 
of  my  life,  from  a  professional  standpoint. 

Somewhere  along  about  the  middle  of 
that  early  band  experience,  I  got  my  own 
show  on  Station  WPIC  in  Sharon.  It  was  a 
15 -minute  evening  program  and  I  sang  all 
kinds  of  things.  Meanwhile,  I  also  sang  at 
the  dance  dates  with  Bob  and  the  band. 

I  guess  I  have  been  particularly  lucky. 
Some  performers  always  seem  to  go 
through  long  periods  of  unemployment,  but 
it  was  my  good  fortune  to  go  out  of  one 
job  right  into  another.  In  radio,  I  went  to 
WKST  in  Newcastle  to  become  one-half  of 
a  boy-girl  combination,  and  from  there  I 
went  to  WFMJ  in  Youngstown.  It  was 
while  singing  on  WFMJ  that  I  got  my  first 
network  break.  ABC  originated  a  Coast- 
to-Coast  sustaining  program  from  there, 
and  I  was  on  the  air  regularly  with  Jack 
Merrill  and  the  Woodside  Sisters. 

Meanwhile,  the  band  dates  continued.  I 
graduated  from  Bob  Collar's  combination 
to  working  with  Jerry  Edwards'  band,  and 
then  to  the  Benny  Jones  Orchestra.  This 
was  an  eighteen-piece  dance  band  and 
was  very  popular  around  Youngstown. 

The  biggest  break  of  my  life  is  another 
illustration  of  just  how  lucky  I  have  been. 
I  went  to  New  York  for  a  CBS  audition  in 
the  late  spring  of  1952.  I  suppose  I  could 
have  gone  on  working  as  I  had  been  for 
the  rest  of  my  life.  But,  for  any  performer, 
there's  always  a  challenge  in  the  talent 
competition  of  a  big  production  center. 
Along  the  way  in  the  days  of  my  band  ex- 
perience, I  had  met  Clark  Dennis,  and  this 
meeting  was  to  have  an  important  effect  on 
my  big  chance. 

Clark  knew  that  I  had  been  scheduled 
by  CBS  for  an  appearance  on  June  12,  1952. 
He  also  knew  that  his  old  boss,  Don  Mc- 
Neill, was  looking  for  a  girl  singer.  He  got 
in  touch  with  Don  and  told  him  to  listen  in 
on  the  CBS  show — and,  the  first  thing  I 
knew,  there  was  a  wire  waiting  for  me  at 
the  hotel,  asking  me  to  come  along  to  Chi- 
cago for  an  audition  with  the  Breakfast 
Clubl  On  July  27,  1952,  a  little  over  a 
month  after  my  appearance  on  CBS  in 
New  York,  I  went  on  the  Breakfast  Club 
— and  that's  where  I've  been  ever  since. 

From  my  individual  standpoint,  this  has 
been  probably  the  happiest  period  of  my 
professional  life,  because  it  gives  me  a 
chance  to  sing  hymns  as  well  as  popular 
music.  I  did  choir  work  for  many  years 
at  home  and  I  really  love  the  sacred  songs. 
But,  for  many  years,  I  hadn't  had  much 
chance  to  sing  that  kind  of  music  in  public. 

But  as  for  the  Breakfast  Club,  this  show 
really  points  up  the  fact  that  any  profes- 
sional performer  has  need  for  an  extensive 
"internship."  If  it  hadn't  been  for  my  choir 
work,  and  if  it  hadn't  been  for  my  work 
with  the  bands  over  all  those  years,  I  don't 
believe  that  I  would  be  able  to  satisfy 
Don  McNeill  or  his  audience. 

Traditionally,  farm  folk  are  supposed 
to  be  early  risers,  and  in  my  case  the 
farm  provided  good  training  for  my  pres- 
ent work.  Anybody  who  is  associated 
with  the  Breakfast  Club  has  to  go  to  bed 


you  need  this  [$[[ 
STYLE 


It's  an  EXCITING  way  for  you  to  shop!  Like  a 
fashion  magazine  ...  it  shows  all  the  new  Spring 
and  Summer  Fashions  for  TAIL  GIRLS.  You 
can  choose  an  entire  Spring  and  Summer  wardrobe 
of  dresses,  coats,  suits,  jackets,  blouses,  skirts, 
slacks,  sweaters,  robes,  slips,  gowns,  girdles, 
bras  and  stockings ...  all  designed  to  fit  your 
TALL  figure  like  a  dream.  TALL-sizes  10  to  20 
.  .  .  (priced  like  fashions  in  regular  sizes). 

Mail  Coupon  for  your  Free  Style  Book  Today 


If  you  are  not  on        •l^— 

\m 

•19 
N.Y. 

0  and  Summe 

|JU 

Over  Five-Seven  Shops,  Dept.  T 
465  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York  17, 

Please  send  me  your 

"Over  Five-Seven  Shop"  Sprin 

Book. 

Stylt 

.State.. 

The  Southern  Way  Is  The  EASY  Way 

MAKE  MONEY 


Show  enchanting  new  All-Occasion  Greeting 

Cards,  styled  with  Sooth's  flair  for  beaaty. 

EVERYBODY  BUYS !  Southern Belle.Tall  Beauties, 

Tiny  Tots,  other  SI  Assortments  pay  yon  op  to  50c 

i  profit.  Easy  to  make  £50  on  100  boxes!  Extra!  Up  to 

^6%  CASH  BONUS!  No  experience  needed.  24-Hour 

ervice  on  all  orders.  Write  for  samples  on  approval. 

SOUTHERN  GREETINGS,  Dept.   31-W 

478  NORTH  HOLLYWOOD  STREET,   MEMPHIS  12,  TENNESSEE 


YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAP 

IJH.MMHH 

(S.  D.)* 

As  hundreds  of  thousands  of  users 
have  learned,   Siroil   tends  to  re- 
move psoriasis  crusts  and  scales  on 
outer  layer  of  skin.  Light  applica- 
tions help  control  recurring  le- 
sions. Siroil  doesn't  stain  cloth- 
ing or  bed  linens.  Offered  on 
two -weeks-  satisfaction- or  - 
raoney-  refunded   basis.  22 
years  of  successful  results. 
Write    for    free    booklet. 
\    *S.  D.  means  Skin  Disorder. 


SIROIL 


AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES 

Siroil  Laboratories  Inc..  Dept. M-75,  Santa  Monica,  Calif. 


93 


94 


MATERNITY 

StjleBookFREE 

LANE  BRYANT  Maternity  clothes  are  new  Fifth 

Avenue  styles;  keep  you  smart  during  pregnancy. 

Easy    to   adjust.    Wonderful   money-saving   values. 

•  Misses'  Sizes  10  to  20        •  Junior  Sizes  9  to  17 

•  Women's  Sizes  36  to  44 

Our  FREE  Style  Book  offers  dresses,  supporters, 
undies.  Dresses  $2.98  up.  Everything  for  Baby,  too. 
Mail  couponfor  FREE  Book ;  sent  you  in  plain  wrapper. 


jone^y™1 


DEPT.  801 

INDIANAPOLIS  17, 

INDIANA 


Mall  FREE  Maternity  Style  Book  In  plain  wrapper. 

(801) 


Post  Office 


Destroy/^V^/Forever 


'  Only  by  KIIUNG  THE  HAIR  ROOT  con  you  be  sura  i 
'  UNWANTED  HAIR  Is  GONE  FOREVER.  Brings  relief  / 
r  and  social  happiness.  Da  not  use  our  method  until  f 
1  you  have  read  our  instruction  book  carefully  and  J 
J  learned  to  use  the  MAHLER  METHOD  safely  and  I 
f  efficiently.  Used  successfully  over  fifty  years. 


Send  5cT0DAv  for  booklet 


MAHLER'S.  INC       Dtpt59-B 


PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I. 


1120 


M0VIUTVSTAR 

PICTURES 


EXCITING!  All  your  favor- 
ires.  Newest  intimate  off  guard 
photos.  Professional  waller  size 
—  suitable  for  framing.  Holly- 
wood's Biggest  Offer!  Hurry! 
ORDER  SEVERAL  FOR 
GIFTS  WHILE  THEY  LAST! 

rnrn  wllh  y°ur  "",''''  BIG  surprise 

rllhrl  G1FT  lv'"r'''  "*>  -private  HOME 
■  ■•fcfc.  ADDRESSES,  plus  other  REVEAL- 
ING INFORMATION  of  100s  OTHER  TOP 
STARS.  Also  GIANT  NEW  CATALOG  contain- 
ing ADDITIONAL  HUNDREDS  OF  PHOTOS 
AND  NAMES  of  Newest  Stars-all  is  SENT  FREE 
WITH  YOUR  ORDER  if  you  act  now! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STAR  CENTER 

SIUOIO    L-2.  BOX  23OT.  HOlirWOOD  2B,  CAUF. 


NEEDLEWORK  LOVERS  vV  .7  -it  Mrs.  F.  II.,  Idaho, 
says,  "Thank  you  for  the  wonderful  patterns  each 
month.  Everyone  raves  over  them."  Aunt  Ellen's 
WORKBASKET,  a  monthly  needlework  magazine 
and  pattern  service,  brings  exciting  new  ideas  in 
crochet,  knitting,  tatting,  embroidery,  etc.,  with  in- 
structions &  charts.  48  to  80  pages  each  month! 
Regularly  11.60  yr.  NOW.  Introductory  Offer— 
\2  month  Huhricription  PLUS  over  I (10  Transfer  De- 
signs PLUS  illustrated  HOW-TO  N10I0I  H.KWOKK 
HOOK  send  ONLY  $1.00— you'll  be  delighted! 
Order  from:  Aunt  Ellen  e/O  The  WORK- 
BASKET,  5085  Handcraft  Bldg..  K.  C.  11.  Mo. 


with  the  chickens  and  get  up  at  5: 00  A.M.! 
That's  literally  true,  as  any  Breakfast 
Clubber  will  tell  you.  While  we  do  some 
rehearsal  following  the  program  each  day, 
the  main  rehearsal  job  comes  in  the  early 
morning,  before  the  show  gets  on  the  air. 

The  show  takes  up  quite  a  little  of  my 
time  at  home,  too,  because  there  are  songs 
to  learn,  records  to  listen  to,  and  some- 
times dialogue  lines  to  learn.  But,  aside 
from  that,  I  still  have  plenty  of  time  for 
my  own  interests.  This  happens  to  include 
golf — and  golf  is  the  reason  why  I  picked 
the  particular  apartment  I  live  in.  One  of 
its  advantages  is  that  it  is  convenient  for 
me  to  reach  a  nine-hole  public  course  in 
Lincoln  Park,  and  that's  where  I  can  usu- 
ally be  found  on  a  Saturday,  during  the 
season. 

I'm  not  a  great  golfer,  really,  but  I  am 
good  enough  to  regularly  shoot  in  the  low 
90's  for  18  holes.  Of  course,  this  interest 
traces  right  back  to  that  tomboy  stage, 
because  I  now  put  as  much  swat  into  hit- 
ting a  golf  ball  as  I  used  to  do  in  hitting 
a  baseball!  I  can  usually  hit  a  good,  long 
tee  shot — sometimes  to  the  evident  unhap- 
piness  of  men  I  play  with — but  my  short 
game  could  probably  stand  some  improve- 
ment. (I  also  used  to  love  bowling,  and 
did  rather  well  at  it,  but  there  doesn't 
seem  to  be  much  time  for  it  these  days.) 

I  suppose  some  girls  in  my  position  would 
be  shopping  continuously,  but  clothes  have 
never  been  a  mental  problem  for  me. 
Basically,  I'm  a  very  plain  Pennsylvania 
farm  girl  in  my  tastes,  and  about  the  only 
extravagance  I  have  is  shoes.  I  can't  stand 
them  when  they're  "run-over,"  and  for 
that  reason  I  always  seem  to  have  a  rack 
full  of  new  ones. 

When  I  stop  to  think  about  how  life  has 
treated  me — and  I  often  do  think  about  it — 
I  realize  that  I  have  been  a  very  fortunate 


girl.  I  enjoy  singing,  and  it  has  been  my 
good  fortune  to  be  able  to  make  a  living 
from  it.  It  seems  that  I  have  never  had 
to  push,  and  the  right  thing  has  always 
seemed  to  happen  to  me  at  the  right  time 

I  often  think  of  those  little  black  lambs 
that  I  helped  nurse  in  childhood,  and  it 
has  occurred  to  me  often  that  maybe  that's 
how  human  "black  sheep"  get  their  starts 
in  life — by  being  neglected  when  they 
were  little  ones.  I  often  wonder  whether 
the  human  kind  would  be  that  way  when 
they  grow  up,  if  they  had  been  sur- 
rounded by  loving  care  and  devotion  when 
they  were  first  here  on  earth.  Having  been 
given  that  kind  of  care  during  childhood, 
of  course,  I  can't  understand  any  other 
kind — and  I  would  want  the  same  kind  of 
care  for  any  child.  It  doesn't  seem  to  me 
that  delinquency  would  be  such  a  prob- 
lem, if  all  the  potential  little  black  sheep 
in  the  world  could  have  the  right  kind  of 
start  and  protection  at  the  outset. 

This  feeling  of  mine  will  materialize 
someday,  I  hope,  in  a  sort  of  personal  proj  - 
ect  I  have  been  planning  for  a  long  time. 
I  would  like  to  establish  a  home  some- 
where, a  real  home,  for  orphans  and  crip- 
pled youngsters.  I  don't  mean  a  very  big 
place — certainly  not  anything  like  an  in- 
stitution. What  I  have  in  mind  is  some- 
thing just  large  enough  to  encompass  what 
might  be  called  a  big  family.  Someday,  I 
hope  to  be  able  to  make  enough  out  of  my 
singing  to  really  make  that  project  work. 

As  for  my  own  family,  when  we  get  to- 
gether at  Christmastime  or  on  other  holi- 
days, we  strain  the  walls  of  whatever  place 
we're  in.  With  brothers  and  sisters,  their 
wives,  husbands  and  youngsters,  we  make 
i*p  a  family  party  of  fifty-two  people! 

And  there's  a  certainty  that  we  do  at 
least  one  thing  for  our  entertainment — we 
get  together  and  sing. 


The  Host  with  the  Most 


(Continued  from  page  35) 
from  there  into  radio  in  1932,  and  it  was  in 
radio  that  he  actually  created  the  "scoop" 
format  with  which  he  has  been  so  success- 
ful in  TV.  Ed  introduced  Jack  Benny  to  the 
airlanes,  as  well  as  the  late  George  M. 
Cohan  and  scores  of  others.  Among  his 
"firsts"  on  TV  have  been  the  video  debuts 
of  Martin  and  Lewis,  Bob  Hope,  Rita  Hay- 
worth,  Audrey  Hepburn,  Moira  Shearer, 
James  Mason,  Vic  Damone,  Rosemary 
Clooney,  Alfred  Lunt,  and  Jackie  Gleason. 

Perhaps  his  most  publicized  "first"  was 
Margaret  Truman.  The  way  this  came  about 
illustrates  some  of  the  reasons  why  Ed 
has  been  so  successful  with  his  formula. 

Ed  had  been  trying  without  much  luck 
to  induce  the  then-President's  daughter  to 
appear  on  Toast.  One  Sunday  he  had  Mimi 
Benzell  as  a  guest.  He  didn't  know  it  then, 
but  Mimi  is  one  of  Margaret's  close  friends. 
After  her  appearance,  she  raved  to  Mar- 
garet about  Ed's  helpfulness  and  the  pleas- 
ant manner  with  which  he'd  handled  the 
show  and  the  talent  appearing  on  it.  Not 
long  after  that,  Margaret  called  Ed.  If  he 
could  do  so  well  for  Mimi — well,  she'd  like 
to  give  it  a  whirl  .  .  .  and  she  did. 

In  addition  to  his  all-around  duties  on 
Toast,  Ed  writes  his  Coast-to-Coast  syndi- 
cated column  five  days  a  week.  He  also 
does  an  extensive  promotion  job  for  his 
sponsors,  traveling  all  over  the  country  to 
make  appearances  for  various  Lincoln- 
Mercury  dealers.  He  also  does  more  bene- 
fits, both  as  organizer  and  performer,  than 
any  other  star.  Despite  all  these  activities, 
he  operates  with  a  very  small  staff:  Jean 
Bombard,  who  handles  secretarial  chores, 
and  Carmine  Santullo.  These  two  young- 
sters, who  are  with  him  constantly,  know 
the  man  behind  the  intent,  serious,  busi- 
nesslike   host    of    The    Toast.    Along    with 


millions  of  TV  viewers,  they  like  the  guy 
.  .  .  but — to  his  eternal  credit — they're  not 
afraid  to  talk  about  his  foibles,  either. 

In  show  business's  inner  cricles,  Carmine 
is  almost  as  well-known  as  his  boss.  To 
illustrate  the  quality  of  their  relationship: 
Some  years  ago,  Ed  somehow  got  involved 
with  backing  a  Broadway  show  called 
"Crazy  with  the  Heat."  It  was  a  dismal  flop 
and  Ed  lost  all  the  money  he'd  invested. 
Shortly  after  its  demise,  there  arrived  at 
Ed's  office  a  belated  bill,  for  some  adver- 
tising material,  amounting  to  $16.50.  Car- 
mine paid  it  out  of  his  own  pocket. 

"I  figured  Mr.  Sullivan  had  enough  wor- 
ries about  then,"  Carmine  now  reluctantly 
admits.  "It  was  the  least  I  could  do,  con- 
sidering all  he's  done  for  me. 

"Let  me  tell  you  how  I  happen  to  be 
working  for  him,"  Carmine  goes  on.  "I  was 
one  of  those  New  York  kids  who  just  can't 
seem  to  stay  away  from  the  bright  lights. 
I  began  to  haunt  Broadway  and  its  stage 
doors  almost  as  soon  as  I  could  get  around 
by  myself.  Why  not?  My  own  street  on  the 
East   Side    wasn't   particularly   glamorous. 

"I  staked  out  a  berth  for  myself  at  Loew's 
State.  I  had  a  shoeshine  stand  by  the  stage 
door  and  I  used  to  run  errands  and  try  to 
make  myself  generally  helpful,  for  a  few 
pennies,  to  the  people  around  the  theater. 
Mr.  Sullivan  came  in  there  with  his  'Dawn 
Patrol  Revue' — he  played  there  sixteen 
consecutive  weeks  for  the  all-time  record, 
you  know — and  I  saw  him  a  lot.  I  used  to 
get  his  lunch  and  run  his  column  over  to 
the  paper  for  him.  Things  like  that.  He 
never  made  me  feel  small  or  insignificant 
even  though  I  was  just  a  bootblack.  Quite 
the  opposite,  he  seemed  to  have  a  faculty 
for  making  me  feel  that  the  little  things 
I  did  for  him  were  important  and  that  he 
appreciated  them.  And  it  wasn't  only  the 


size  of  the  tips,  it  was  his  whole  attitude. 
He  was  always  courteous,  always  took  time 
to  say  thank  you. 

"Well,  when  he  offered  me  a  steady  job — 
that  was  eighteen  years  ago — I  could  hardly 
believe  it  was  happening  to  me,  but  you 
can  bet  I  didn't  hesitate!  I've  been  with  him 
ever  since,  except  for  a  few  months  when 
the  syndicate  assigned  him  to  the  West 
Coast  and  he  originated  the  column  from 
there.  I  don't  know  what  would  have  be- 
come of  me  if  he  hadn't  given  me  a  break. 
As  it  is — well,  I  love  my  work,  through  it, 
I've  been  able  to  help  my  parents  and  live 
happily  and  comfortably  myself." 

By  now,  of  course,  Carmine  is  ac- 
customed to  contact  with  the  famous,  but 
he's  still  far  from  blase.  He  tells  with  deep 
awe  about  the  show  he  did  with  Ed  at  the 
White  House  some  time  ago — "I  actually  sat 
in  the  chair  of  the  President  of  the  United 
States!"  But  few  things  disturb  Carmine's 
steady,  stony  calm.  He  does  recall  one  par- 
ticular moment  of  great  embarrassment, 
though.  That  was  when  he  opened  the 
office  door  one  day  to  find  four  hulking  Ma- 
rines, grinning  broadly. 

"Say,"  said  the  spokesman,  "is  Amelia 
around?     We'd  like  to  take  her  to  lunch." 

"Amelia,"  it  should  be  hastily  explained, 
is  an  imaginary  secretary  whose  name  has 
been  used  by  Ed  in  his  column — and  by 
Carmine,  in  answering  "Amelia's"  mail. 
Amelia's  columns  attracted  an  extra-large 
number  of  G.I.  letters  and  they  never  ques- 
tioned but  that  she  was  a  real  person.  Car- 
mine couldn't  bear  to  let  his  visitors  know 
she  didn't  exist. 

He  tried  to  think  fast,  and  then  he  told 
them  he  was  sorry  but  Amelia  was  on  va- 
cation right  then.  The  boys  were  crestfal- 
len. But  Ed  got  Carmine  off  the  spot,  by  ap- 
pearing in  the  office  at  that  precise  mo- 
ment. He  invited  the  Marines  in,  and  then 
spent  the  afternoon  entertaining  them. 

Neither  Carmine  nor  Jean  Bombard  ever 
knows  who  it  will  be  when  they  open  Ed's 
door  or  answer  his  phone., His  circle  of  ac- 
quaintances is  one  of  the  world's  largest 
and  most  varied.  On  the  walls  of  his  pine- 
panelled  office  are  autographed  photos  of 
movie  stars,  golfers,  statesmen,  fighters,  so- 
cial figures,  politicians,  baseball  players, 
generals — even  financiers. 

"I  had  a  rough  time  getting  used  to 
being  surrounded  by  all  these  impressive 
people,"  says  wide-eyed  Jean,  indicating 
the  walls  around  her  desk.  "But,  if  anyone 
could  make  you  feel  at  ease  anywhere,  it's 
Mr.  Sullivan.  Besides,  we're  so  busy  we 
don't  have  time  to  be  impressed. 

1  came  here  to  work  three  years  ago. 
Mr.  Sullivan  was  going  to  write  a  book  and 
I  was  to  transcribe  it.  But  we've  been  so 
rushed  we've  yet  to  even  get  a  start  on  that 
project,  although  Mr.  Sullivan  did  write 
one  book,  before  my  time  here — Mr.  Lee, 
about  Lee  Shubert,  the  theatrical  producer 
— and  he's  also  the  author  of  a  number  of 
original  movie  scripts." 

An  average  day  in  the  Sullivan  office  be- 
gins at  ten  o'clock.  That's  when  Jean  and 
Carmine  arrive  for  work  at  the  office,  which 
is  one  large  room  adjoining  Ed's  apartment 
at  the  Hotel  Delmonico,  on  Park  Avenue 
in  New  York  City.  First  thing  Jean  does  is 
to  walk  "Bojangles,"  the  Sullivans'  gray 
French  poodle — named  for  the  late  Bill 
Robinson.  Then  Jean  gets  to  the  mail,  while 
Carmine  is  already  busy  on  the  phones, 
which  ring  constantly.  Ed's  fan  mail  aver- 
ages a  thousand  letters  a  week.  There  are 
a  great  many  requests  for  photographs. 
"Just  filling  those  takes  scores  of  hours  and 
costs  several  thousands  of  dollars  every 
year,"  says  Jean. 

Ed's  own  day  begins  around  one  o'clock 
when,  having  breakfasted  lightly  on  boiled 
egg,  toast  and  coffee,  he  comes  into  the  den 
which  serves  as  office,  gives  his  mail  a 
quick  check,  takes  "Bojangles"  for  another 


run,  and  then  sits  down  to  his  solid-gold 
typewriter  to  pound  out  his  colmun.  The 
gold  typewriter  is  no  affectation.  It  is  an 
honest-to-goodness  working  model — and  a 
most  handsome  one — which  Ed  received 
from  the  Jewish  War  Veterans  of  Spring- 
field, Massachusetts,  as  a  token  of  their 
gratitude  for  a  mammoth  benefit  he  staged 
to  raise  funds  for  them. 

The  typewriter  is  only  one  of  scores  of 
trophies  which  make  the  office  an  interest- 
ing spot  to  visit — or  work  in.  Interspersed 
with  the  autographed  pictures  on  the  office 
walls  are  about  a  dozen  plaques  which 
have  been  presented  to  Ed  by  all  types  of 
religious,  veterans'  and  other  charitable 
groups  as  tokens  of  appreciation  and  es- 
teem. These  souvenirs  tell  their  own  story 
of  Ed's  universal  good  will,  because — al- 
though he  is  a  strong  professor  of  his  own 
faith — his  charitable  efforts  have  included 
causes  espoused  by  every  conceivable  reli- 
gion and  all  racial  groups. 

One  of  the  most  striking  mementos  in 
Ed's  extensive  collection  is  a  pair  of  brown 
"tap"  shoes,  neatly  encased  in  their  own 
glass  box.  These  belonged  to  the  famed 
Bill  "Bojangles"  Robinson.  When  Bill — 
who  had  been  a  fine  gentleman  and  one  of 
the  greatest  performers  of  our  day — died 
broke,  Ed  Sullivan  arranged  the  mammoth 
funeral  which  was  attended  by  every  great 
star  in  New  York  and  a  good  many  people 
equally  famous  in  other  professions.  It  was 
the  most  impressive  funeral  the  Big  Town 
had  ever  seen.  Mrs.  Robinson  carried  out 
Bill's  last  wish  and  gave  Ed  the  dancer's 
most  prized  possession,  his  "lucky"  tap 
shoes. 

While  Ed  is  writing  his  column,  Carmine 
is  busy  answering  the  phones  and  trying 
to  keep  Bojangles  quiet.  The  little  pup, 
knowing  his  master  is  around,  usually  picks 
this  particular  time  to  make  a  major  bid 
for  attention.  Ed  works  with  such  con- 
centration— and  Carmine  usually  does  so 
well  with  Bojangles — that  the  boss  was 
completely  unaware  of  the  dog's  deviltry 
until  one  day,  when  Carmine  was  out  and 
Jean  had  her  hands  full  with  the  phones,  he 
began  to  pester  Ed. 

"What  in  the  world  ails  Boje?"  Ed  asked 
irritably.  Jean  told  him — but  the  dog's  con- 
duct hasn't  improved.  Ed's  so  fond  of  the 
little  animal  he  can  scarcely  bear  to  repri- 
mand him. 

Sullivan  began  his  journalistic  career  as 
a  reporter  of  high  school  sports  events  for 
his  hometown  newspaper,  the  Port  Chester 
(N.  Y.)  Item.  His  great  interest  in  all  sorts 
of  athletic  events — he  earned  twelve  letters 
during  high  school — made  him  a  natural  for 
this  assignment  and  led  him  to  set  a  goal 
as  a  sports  columnist  or  editor.  He  realized 
this  ambition  on  the  N.  Y.  Evening  Mail  in 
1920,  and  as  sports  editor  of  the  now-de- 
funct Graphic.  Came  then  the  "blow"  which 
was  to  change  his  life.  He  was  switched 
from  the  sports  desk  to  the  Broadway  beat 
and  asked  to  turn  out  a  column  of  Broad- 
way gossip.  Ed  didn't  think  much  of  this 
assignment  and  teed-off  his  new  career 
with  a  blast  at  gossip-writing  in  general. 
This  first  column — plus  other  disagree- 
ments when  Walter  Winchell  was  also  a 
Graphic  staffer — led  to  their  long-smolder- 
ing feud.  At  the  height  of  the  Barry  Gray- 
Winchell  vendetta,  this  feud  flared  anew 
when  Ed  "tore  Winchell's  ear  off"  on  two 
separate  occasions  on  the  Barry  Gray  radio 
show. 

After  Ed  finishes  his  column,  Carmine 
takes  it  down  to  the  Daily  News  for  setting 
and  follows  through  with  it,  adding  or  de- 
leting designated  items  until  it  has  been 
sent  out  to  other  newspapers.  Ed,  mean- 
while, turns  to  whatever  other  chores  the 
day  has  brought.  He  writes  the  scripts  used 
on  Toast.  Sometimes  these  take  consider- 
able time  and  research,  as  in  the  case  of 
one    of    his    biographical    shows.    He    also 


get 


IF  YOU  SUFFER 

t%/tiJki    of  HEADACHE 

nMWmW  NEURALGIA 

NEURITIS 


With 


the  way  thousands  of 

physicians  and  dentists  recommend. 

HERE'S  WHY  .  .  .  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's 
prescription.  That  is,  Anacin  contains  not 
fust  one  but  a  combination  of  medically 
proved  active  ingredients.  No  other  product 
gives  faster,  longer-lasting  relief  from  pain 
of  headache,  neuralgia,  neuritis  than  Anacin 
tablets.  Buy  Anacin®  today) 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 


A  few  drops  of  OUTGEO®  bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  ingrown  nail.  OUTGRO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.   OUTGEO  is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

Now  this  new  healing  substance  is  offered 
in  ointment  form  under  the  name  of 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  stores 
—money  back  guarantee.         *BeB.  v.  s.  Pat.  off. 


Hair 

OFFFace 

Lips. ..Arms. ..Legs 


Now  Happy!  After  trying  many  things,  I  de- 
veloped a  simple,  inexpensive  method  to  remove 
unsightly  hair.  Its  regular  use  helps  thousands 
retain  admiration,  love,  happiness.  My  FREE  book  ex- 
plains method,  proves  success.  Mailed  in  plain  enve- 
lope. Also  TRIAL  OFFER.  Write  ANNETTE  LaNZETTE. 
P.O.  Box 4040.  Mdse.  Mart,  Dept.2l5. Chicago 54,  111. 


SheGoHW 

for  a  Half  Dollar 


CASH/ 

Viand  STAMPS! 


i  POST  YOURSELF!  It  pays!, 

1 1  paid  $-100.00  to  Mrs.  Dowty  fc 
I  ofTexas,  f  orone  Half  Dollar; ' 
pJj.D.Martinof  Virginia  $200.00 
for  a  single  Copper  Cent.  Mr. 
Manning  of  New  York,  $2,500.00  for  ; 
oneSilverDollar.  Mra.G.F.Adams.Ohio,' 
received  $740.00  for  a  few  old  coins.  I  will  pay  big  prices 
for  all  kinds  of  old  coins,  medals,  bills  and  stamps. 
I  WILL  PAY  $100.00  FOR  A  DIME! 

1894  S  Mint :  $60.00  for  1913  Libert)  Head  Nickel  (not  liutTalo)  i,  , 
in'd  hundreds  of  other  ama.-inu  nrii-es  tor  coln»  bend  4c  lor  \Jt 
Larire llhn.trut.-d  Coin  Folder  ani  further  particaUra.   ItmW 

B^AXMEHtH7M^^F0liTW0liTH,tafi 

(Largest  Rare  Coin  Establishment  in  U.  S.) 


95 


96 


SAVE  ON 

COTTONS 

Rayons*  Nylons 

new,  finest  guaranteed 
values  in  fashions  at  lowest 
prices. ..anywherel  Beauti- 
ful, exciting  styles  in  dresses, 
coats,  sportswear. .  .and  page 
after  page  of  quality  house- 
hold items  for  entire  family 
and  home.  Over  %  million 
thrifty  women  acclaim  South 
Carolina  Mills  for  best  sav- 
ings! Our  great  new  catalog 
FREE  for  asking!  Just 
paste  coupon  below  on  a  post- 
card and  mail  today  to: 
South  Carolina  Mills,  Dept.  243,  Spartanburg,S.C. 


/$V'  =  ,    =55= 


SOUTH  CAROLINA  MILLS,  Dept.  243 
Spartanburg,  South  Carolina 

Please  rush,  FREE  and  postpaid,  new  Spring   I 
1966  Catalog . 


NAME. 


.    CITY STATE. 


ONLY* 


If  you  need  more  money... 

Up  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous   Hollywood   Cos- 
metics, your  neighborhood. 
Free    Samples    and    details 
;Ij"i«?5-\Supplied.  Write  to: 
Guaranteed  by*"^     mn  TAYLOR,  Pres. 
Good  Housekeeping  )    „  ,?"««•  Girl— 
"'or  ,««v'     Hollywood  Cosmelics 

-  iLLon>iist£ji>xG!endale,  Calif.,  DepLTS-25 


NEW  TYPE  GREETING  CARDS 

FOLKS   ARE  WILD   ABOUT 
Bring  You  $50,  $75,  $100  Extra  Money! 

Show  amazing  value  All  Occasion, 
Birthday,  Get  Well  ass'ts.,  wrappings, 
home  &  gift  novelties.  Exclusive  Bar- 
gain Surprise  Package.  Profits  to  lOO^/o 
plus  cash  bonus.  Write  today  for  Free 
Trial  outfit  of  Feature  assortments  on 
approval,  14  FREE  samples  Imprint- 
ed Stationery,  Napkins,  Pencils,  FREE 
Surprise  Gift. 
Cards  NEW  ENGLAND  ART  PUBLISHERS 
North  Abington  221,  Mass. 


New  "Action 


FREE     Catalog 


RUPTURE-EASER 

FOR  MEN,  WOMEN  AND  CHILDREN  Reg.  in  U.  S.  Pat  Off. 
A  strong,  form  fitting,  washable 
support  Back  lacing  adjustable. 
Snaps  up  in  front  Adjustable  leg 
strap.  Soft,  flat  groin  pad.  No 
steel  or  leather  bands.  Unex- 
celled for  comfort  Also  used  as 
after  -  operation  support  Give  „<, 
measure  around  the  lowest  part 
of  the  abdomen.  Specify  right  or  left  side  or  double.  W. 
pay  postage  except  on  COD'a, 

PIPER   BRACE  CO. 
811   Wyandotte       Dept.   MWG-25       Kansas  City  S,   Mo. 

LEARN  AT  HOME 

•  to  be  a  Nurse's  Aide 

•  Practical   Nurse 

•  or  Infant  Nurse 

Prepare  In  spare  time  for  a  fascinating,  high-pay  career. 
Thousands  or  men  and  women,  18-60,  are  graduates  of 
thiB  physician-endorsed  course.  High  school  not  required. 
Easy  payment* ;  earn  as  you  learn.  Trial  plan.  56th  year. 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 
Dept.  22,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,  III. 
Please  Bend  me  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Name 

Citu State —Aae 


DIRECT  TO  YOU... EASY  TERMS 

Genuine   Rockdale   Monuments 
and  Markers.  Full  Price  $14.95 
and  up.  Satisfaction  or  MON- 
EY  BACK.  Wo  pay  freight. 
Compare  our  low  prices. 
WRITE  FOR  FR.II  CATALOG. 
ROCKDALE  MONUMENT  CO.  •  DEPT.  898  •  JOLIET,  ILL. 


spends  many  hours  looking  at  films  and 
interviewing  talent. 

Usually  he  works  right  up  to  dinner- 
time. Then  he  and  Mrs.  Sullivan  dine  out, 
take  in  a  new  show,  review  a  new  night- 
club act  or  go  to  Madison  Square  Garden 
for  some  sports  event.  In  other  words,  they 
cover  his  "beat." 

When  they  were  first  married,  Ed  and 
the  former  Sylvia  Weinstein  lived  at  the 
Astor  Hotel  in  Times  Square.  Later,  when 
their  daughter  Betty  came  along,  they 
moved  to  the  East  Side  to  their  present 
abode  at  the  Delmonico,  because  that  part 
of  town  is  quieter  and  less  congested. 

This  three-room-plus-kitchenette  apart- 
ment adjacent  to  the  office  in  the  Delmonico 
is  a  handsome  one.  Up  to  a  few  months  ago, 
it  was  comfortable  but  less  distinguished, 
done  simply  in  what  Ed  describes  as  "Early 
Delmonico"  (meaning  furniture  and  decor 
supplied  by  the  hotel) . 

Just  before  Betty  was  graduated  from 
UCLA — as  a  graduation  present,  in  fact — 
Sylvia  re-did  Betty's  room  in  blond  wood 
and  a  dainty  pink  and  pale  gray  color 
scheme.  Ed  liked  it  so  much  they  decided 
to  re-decorate  the  rest  of  the  place.  In 
contrast  to  the  farm,  which  is  done  in  chintz 
and  Early  American,  the  apartment  is  slick 
modern.  Three  of  the  walls  in  their  bed- 
room are  painted  a  pale  blue,  and  on  the 
fourth  there's  a  textured  metallic  paper. 
Against  this  wall  stands  their  huge  "Holly- 
wood" bed  with  brass  frame  headboard  up- 
holstered in  the  same  pale  blue  antique 
satin.  The  spread  and  draperies  are  identi- 
cal fabric.  The  carpet  is  pale  gray  and 
there  are  two  textured  overstuffed  chairs 
in  apricot.  Their  huge  light  modern  dresser 
has  a  white  marble  top  and  brass  legs,  as 
have  the  small  matching  bedside  chests. 

In  their  large  living  room  the  walls  are 
pure  white  and  the  carpet  is  deep  green. 
Along  two  of  the  walls  are  long  brown- 
and-white  tweed  sofas,  arranged  at  right 
angles  and  with  a  marble-top  corner  table 
between.  A  huge  circular  coffeetable  with 
white  marble  top  stands  in  front  of  them. 
A  blond  desk  with  brass  legs,  a  pair  of  in- 
teresting TV  stools  upholstered  in  blue- 
green  shantung,  a  soft  red  overstuffed  chair 
and  a  couple  of  occasional  tables  complete 
the  furnishings.  Personal  mementos — some 
nice  china  figurines  collected  by  Mrs.  Sul- 
livan and  placed  in  the  antique  mirror- 
framed  bookcase,  a  large  portrait  of  her 
hanging  on  one  wall,  photograph  albums, 
framed  pictures  and  lots  of  books — give  the 
place  a  lived-in  look. 

"The  TV  set  is  usually  there,"  Jean  ex- 
plained, pointing  to  a  blank  wall  space,  "but 
one  of  the  veterans'  hospitals,  where  Mrs. 
Sullivan  does  charity  work,  needed  a  set 
for  a  ward,  so  she  bundled  it  off  to  them 
last  week.  The  sixth  one  to  go  to  a  hospital 
this  year,"  Jean  sighed. 

Betty,  now  23,  and  her  husband  Bob 
Precht  and  nine-month-old  baby  (Robert 
Edward)  have  spent  most  of  their  life  to- 
gether traveling,  since  Bob  was  a  Navy  offi- 
cer up  to  last  September,  when  he  com- 
pleted his  hitch.  Consequently,  they  have 
had  little  time  for  overnight  visits  with  the 
Sullivans  at  either  the  apartment  or  the 
farm — where  there's  a  completely  fur- 
nished apartment  waiting  for  them  when- 
ever they  can  come  "home"  to  it.  But  these 
extra  facilities  don't  go  to  waste,  even 
when  Betty  and  Bob  can't  use  them.  The 
Sullivans'  latchstring  is  always  out  for 
Betty's  young  friends. 

Ed  rarely  gets  to  bed  before  three  or  four 
in  the  morning,  and  he  always  spends  some 
time  reading  before  he  goes  to  sleep.  His 
preferences  run  to  biographies,  and  al- 
though he  gives  away  more  than  a  thousand 
books  a  year— largely  to  hospitals — his 
shelves  are  always  overflowing.  During 
the   hours   of  the   early   morning,   he  gets 


many  of  his  ideas  for  his  column  and  the 
shows.  Invariably,  when  Jean  and  Carmine 
arrive  in  the  morning,  they  find  notes  on 
their  desks  "dated"  with  the  hour  and 
containing  scrawled  reminders,  from  the 
boss. 

Ed  has  an  ulcer  which  kicks  up  when  he 
gets  overtired,  overtense,  or  when  he  over- 
eats. He  doesn't  drink  at  all — his  ulcer 
wouldn't  permit  it  even  if  he  liked  it,  which 
he  doesn't.  He's  not  sunny  when  he's  dis- 
turbed in  the  early  morning,  and  Jean  and 
Carmine  will  go  to  almost  any,  length  to 
keep  from  arousing  him  then. 

He  usually  works  in  sports  clothes — 
slacks  and  a  wool  polo  shirt — but,  when  he. 
ventures  out  of  the  hotel,  he's  always  the 
height  of  fashion  in  a  nattily  tailored  suit 
of  rich  material,  with  blending  shirt  and  tie 
and  a  pair  of  his  favorite  suede  oxfords.  He 
seldom  wears  a  hat.  He's  passionately  neat 
and  he  likes  the  office  to  be  kept  unclut- 
tered. It's  on  this  point  that  he  and  Car- 
mine have  their  only  differences.  Ed 
throws  things  away.  Carmine  salvages  them 
and  carefully  stores  them.  Ed  complains 
chronically  that  Carmine's  collecting  will 
run  them  out  of  home  and  office,  but  Car- 
mine just  can't  seem  to  help  himself — and 
with  some  justification.  One  day  recently, 
for  some  point  of  reference,  Ed  needed  an 
old  group  photograph  which  had  been 
taken  at  a  large  sports  banquet  almost 
twenty  years  ago.  He  asked  Carmine  where 
it  was,  and  in  seconds  Carmine  had  it. 
Ed  had  forgotten  completely  that  the 
week  before  he'd  insisted  that  Carmine 
throw  away  the  picture.  Carmine,  a  model 
of  self-restraint,  didn't  remind  him. 

Because  he  truly  likes  people — individ- 
ually, or  en  masse — Ed  thoroughly  enjoys 
personal  contact  with  his  legions  of  fans 
in  the  cities  across  the  country.  However, 
he  admits  that  occasionally  these  contacts 
can  be  disconcerting. 

A  couple  of  months  ago,  he  was  making 
a  personal  appearance  in  a  Midwestern  city 
when  he  was  approached  for  an  autograph 
by  a  pair  of  teenagers.  While  he  was  sign- 
ing heir  book,  he  noticed  that  one-  of  the 
girls  was  looking  at  him  in  some  surprise. 
"My  gosh,  Mr.  Sullivan,"  she  exclaimed,  as 
he  handed  back  her  book,  "I  didn't  know 
you  had  gray  hair!" 

Ed — who  does  have  a  sprinkling  at  his 
temples — tells  that  one  on  himself,  with  the 
broadest  of  grins.  Sure,  he's  fifty-two  and 
he's  a  grandpa.  And  now  he's  a  real  coun- 
try squire. 

Ihe  other  day,  surveying  his  new  acres 
in  the  waning  light  of  the  afternoon,  it 
suddenly  occurred  to  him  that  the  beauty 
of  his  trees  was  entirely  lost  when  darkness 
fell.  Loving  every  needle  and  leaf,  Ed 
opined  that  this  was  a  terrible  waste.  He 
wanted  to  share  them  with  his  frequent 
evening  visitors  or  even  just  casual  pass- 
ers-by. What,  he  asked  Nelson  Baume — 
who  does  the  lighting  effects  on  Toast — 
could   be   done   to   remedy   the   situation? 

In  record  time,  Nelson  created  a  system 
of  lamps,  buttons  and  wires  which  could  be 
worked  from  the  house  to  light  up  the  trees 
and  terraces  to  their  most  dramatic  advan- 
tage. When  he  had  finished,  Ed  surveyed 
the  scene. 

"Why — why,  it's  a  fairyland,"  he  ex- 
claimed. "Beautiful  as  a  Toast  set  .  .  ." 

"Which,"  said  Nelson  promptly,  "gives 
me  an  idea  .  .  ." 

"Yes,"  said  Ed  shaking  his  head.  "Me, 
too.  But  no — I  don't  think  I  should  do  a 
show  from  here.  Heck,  who'd  be  interested? 
No,  to  the  viewers,  this  is  just  a  place  I  live. 
The  show's  the  thing  on  Toast. " 

But  what'll  you  bet?  Say,  along  about 
next  midsummer  Ed  will  do  one  of  his 
grand  "on  location"  shows  from  his  home 
in  Southbury,  Connecticut.  The  Farm  is  too 
much  fun.  Ed's  going  to  have  to  share  it. 


New  Designs  for  Living 


503 — Knit  a  shrug  to  toss  over  everything, 
keep  you  warm  all  winter.  Fast  'n'  easy 
pattern  stitch  trimmed  with  ribbing.  Easy- 
to-follow  directions.  Misses'  Sizes  32-34;  36-38 
included.  250 

7173 — Use  remnants  of  checks  or  plaid  'n' 
plain  for  this  crisp  school  dress.  Easy  to  sew, 
jiffy  to  embroider.  Children's  Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8, 
10.  Pattern  parts,  embroidery  transfer.  State 
size.  250 

7211 — Rickrack  combined  with  crochet — 
prettiest  new  chair-set.  Make  buffet  set,  too. 
Combine  2  colors.  Chair  back,  11"  x  17";  arm 
rest  6"  x  12".  Use  No.  30  cotton,  gay  rick- 
rack. 250 


7173 

SIZES 
2—10 


M® 

832 — Pleasure  to  crochet — treasure  to  own. 
Set  an  elegant  table  with  this  60-inch  square, 
crocheted  in  pineapple  design  and  plain 
mesh.  Tablecloth,  60"  in  string ;  centerpiece, 
40"  in  No.  30  cotton.  250 

740 — Glamorize  your  kitchen,  keep  your 
toaster  shiny  and  dust-free.  The  dainty  skirt 
of  this  old-fashioned  girl  gives  protection. 
Use  scraps  for  clothes.  Pattern  pieces,  in- 
structions, transfers.  250 


Send  25 1  (in  coin)  for  each  pattern  to: 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  Needlecraft  Service, 
P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York 
11,  New  York.     Add    5£  for   each   pattern   for 
first-class  mailing. 


NAME. 


ADDRESS. 
CITY 


STATE 

Send  an  additional  20  c  for  Needlecraft  Catalog, 


Do  You  Need 
EXTRA  MONEY? 


HERE'S  AN  EASY 
QUICK  WAY  TO 

Make  $50  to  $300 

IN  SPARE  TIME 

with  Nationally  -  Famous 

WALLACE  BROWN 
GREETING  CARDS 

Lots  of  folks  do  it  so  easily. . .  it's 
fun  too!  Join  the  thousands  of 
Wallace  Brown  folks  making 
good  money  in  spare  time  show- 
ing friends,  neighbors,  others 
the  most  thrilling  line  of  greeting 
cards  in  America . . .  high  quality 
cards  that  cost  so  little  in  complete 
assortments.  Exquisite  As- 
sortments for  Birthdays, 
t  Anniversaries,  Get-Well, 
sjx.   Baby-Births,  other  occa- 
sions . .  .  sell  on  sight  at 
$1 .00  a  box .  ..you  make 
,    up  to  50c  on  every 
one!  Add  to  earn- 
ings with  40  items, 
imported  napkins, 
gift  wrappings, 
stationery,  chil- 
dren's books,  nov- 
elty gifts.    Added 
profits  with  Easter  Cards. 
Mail  coupon  today  for  ac- 
tual sample  boxes  of  two 
%      popular  sellers — "Fea- 
ture" All -Occasion 
Assortment  and  Hu- 
morous "All-In- 
Fun' '  Assortment 
sent  prepaid  and 
on  approval — plus 
FREE  Catalog  of 
of  the  entire  line. 

WALLACE  BROWN,  INC. 

225  Fifth  Avenue,      Dept.  A-186,     New  York  10,  N.Y. 

FwAiLACE  BROWN,  Dept.  A-186, 
I    225  Fifth  Ave.,  Ksw  York  10,  H.  Y. 

Rush  on  approval  the  2  Everyday  Greet!ng 
[  Card  Assortments  shown,  and  Free  Catalog   . 
I  of  Money  Makers. 


j   NAME 

I 

|  ADDRESS.. 


fCJTY  &.  STATE — Z^__:~_J 


FADED 
GREY 


HAIR 


New  fragrant  hair  pomade  with  lanolin  will  make  gray 
hair  DISAPPEAR  GRADUALLY  (no  sudden  change). 
Because  change  is  gradual  your  friends  in  a  few  weeks 
will  never  remember  that  you  ever  had  gray  hair.  Used 
like  a  hairdressing.  Lasting;  NATURAL  LOOK  .  .  .  will 
not  streak  or  rub  off.  Good  for  men  &  women.  Just 
$2.   mailed  at  our  expense. 

LECHLER— 560   Broadway,   New  York 


Thrilling  New  Massage  Cream 
Contains  PC-11.  Acts  Instantly  to 

DRY  UP  SKIN 
BLEMISHES 

From  Both  Oily  Skin  and 
External  Causes! 

Have  you  tried  in  vain  to  get  rid 
of  oily  pimples,  "hickies,"  other 
■  externally  caused  skin  blemishes  ? 
■^V  Bf  I  Well,  you  never  had  PC-1 1  be- 
Rn  i^^Xl  fore!  That's  POMPEIAN'S  name 
U  IBHT  ^  for  Hexachlorophene.  Wonder- 
ful discovery  of  science  helps  dry  up  such  skin 
blemishes!  Acts  instantly  to  clean  out  dirt,  helps 
remove  blackheads  like  magic!  Goes  on  face  pink- 
rolls  off  muddy  gray ! 

GENEROUS  TRIAL  TUBE— 10  CENTS! 
Send   name,  address   and    10  cents  to   POMPEIAN 
CORP.,  Dept.  P-2,  Baltimore  24,  Md.  (Offer  good 
only  in  U.S.)  Or  get  Pompeian  Mas- 
sage Cream  at  any  drug  store. 


97 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
VB/G  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

i  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.  No  age  limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


Post  Graduate  Hospital 
School   of   Nursing 
9D25B  Auditorium  Bldg. 
Chicago   5,    Illinois 


Name. 


Address 

City State. 


0LEG  SUFFERERS 
Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
ing to  do  something?  Write  today  lor  New 
Booklet — "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
success.  Praised  and  en-| 
dorsed  by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., I 
Dept.  B-47,    Milwaukee  12,  Wisconsin! 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


ENLARGEMENT  GIVEN! 

Plus  12  Photo  Keepsakes 

Just  send  photoorneg.  Glamorous  black  and 

white  enlargement  &  frame  8x10  size  67c  ea. 

Given  extra:  if  you  order  three  we  include 

one  extra  enlargement  plus  12  photokeep- 

sakes.  Be  sure  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes, 

etc.  for  oil  coloring.  Send  no  money.  Pay 

postman. State  choice  of  frames, brown  or 

maroon.  Originals  returned. 

Dtpt.  688,  Mam!  Art,  3140  Roostvtlt  Road,  Chicago  12.  Illinois 

WIN  CONTEST  CASH 

You  can  win  BIG  CASH,  cars,  homes,  oil  wells, 
S100  a  week  for  life.  You  can  be  free  of  money 
worries.  "Contest  Helps"  explains  everything. 
Contains  winning  entries,  valuable  advice,  sam- 
ples, almost  writes  your  entry  for  you!  Answering 
this  ad  can  make  you  the  next  BIG  WINNER!  This 
ad  and  10c  brings  you  Contest  Helps  and  helpful 
bulletin  of   NEW  CASH   CONTESTS.   ACT  NOW. 

EDITOR,  WIN  PUBLISHING  CO.,  Dept.  A 
212  fifth  Ave.  New  York  10.  N.  Y. 


WHIRLING    SPRAY 

Syringe  for    gSO 
Women 


AT  DRUG  COUNTERS 
EVERYWHERE 


MARVEL  CO.  132TW  Call  SI.  Mew  H.vcn.  Conn. 


COLON  TROUBLES 

FREE  BOOK  Tells  Facts 


Fun  to  Be  With 


tf®. 


C0UO** 


«*$&*# 


nd 


Jfftftn?** 


Avoid 
[Dangers 
;of  Delay 


Learn  about  Colon  troubles,  Stomach 
conditions,  Piles  and  other  Rectal  ail- 
ments. Causes,  effects  and  treatment  are 
explained  in  a  140-page  book,  sent 
FREE.  McCleary  Clinic  and  Hospital. 
223  Elms  Blvd.,  Excelsior  Springs,  Mo. 


(Continued  from  page  51) 

"He's  got  too  impish  a  sense  of  humor."  . 

"A  garbage  collector?" 

"Too    much    responsibility." 

"How  about  a  radio  star?" 

"Hmm  .  .  .  why  not.  We  can  always  turn 
him  off."  And  so  the  neighbors,  bless  them 
— having  decided  Bill's  fate — went  back  to 
their  living  rooms  and  tuned  in  Myrt  and 
Marge  while  they  waited  for  young  Bill 
Cullen  to  grow  up  and  become  a  star. 

"They're  still  waiting,"  says  Bill.  "Every 
time  someone  calls  me  a  star,  I  feel  like 
asking  for  a  show  of  hands." 

The  neighbors,  however,  had  a  couple 
of  good  points.  Bill's  smart  enough  to  be 
a  lawyer,  studious  enough  to  be  a  doctor, 
friendly  enough  to  be  a  politician,  but  he 
couldn't  have  been  any  of  those  things. 
He  just  naturally  fits  in  where  he  is,  for 
Bill  is  innately  cheerful  and  happy-go- 
lucky.  He's  fun  whether  you're  with  him 
in  a  studio  or  his  own  living  room.  He's 
good  for  the  unexpected  and  a  lot  of 
laughs.  But,  although  he  "horses"  around 
a  good  bit,  he  also  works  like  one. 

For  eight  months,  he  commuted  six 
thousand  miles  each  week.  From  CBS- 
TV's  New  York  studios,  where  he  par- 
ticipated in  I've  Got  A  Secret,  he  would 
hustle  out  to  the  airport  and  fly  to 
CBS-TV's  Hollywood  studios,  where  he 
emceed  Place  The  Face.  He  then  about- 
faced  and  flew  back  to  New  York  to  do 
four  hours  on  NBC's  Roadshow.  Of  course, 
Bill  was  still  doing  his  other  shows: 
NBC's  Walk  A  Mile,  CBS  Radio's  Stop 
The  Music,  Mutual's  It  Happens  Every 
Day,  and  CBS-TV's  Name  That  Tune. 

"Bill  has  a  problem,"  says  his  agent 
Marty  Goodman.  "Bill  is  not  only  popular 
with  the  audience,  but  sponsors  like  him, 
too.  It's  a  very  pleasant  kind  of  problem." 

Toni,  for  example — which  sponsored 
Place  The  Face — decided  to  hold  onto 
their  time,  but  replace  The  Face  with 
Name  That  Tune.  Bill,  figuratively,  just 
stayed  at  the  microphone  while  one  crew 
went  out  and  another  came  in.  One  week, 
he  was  daring  someone  to  remember  a 
face — the  next  week,  to  remember  a  song. 
And  it  might  as  well  be  noted  that,  when 
Place  The  Face  returned  temporarily  to  a 
Saturday-night  slot,  Bill  was  called  in 
again! 

Ten  or  so  shows  a  week  can  keep  a 
man  mighty  busy,  but  Bill  doesn't  take  a 
chance  on  having  any  spare  time.  He  has 
hobbies.  He  has  been — and,  in  some  cases, 
still  is — a  musician,  mechanic,  aviator, 
artist,  poet,  photographer,  fish  fancier, 
playwright,  comedian,  magician,  airline 
owner,  and  maybe  a  few  other  things.  And 
he  doesn't  dabble.  He  jumps  in  head  first 
where  it's  deep.  He  buys  books  and  stud- 
ies. He  buys  equipment  and  works. 

"This  accounts  for  Bill  being  right  at 
home  with  everyone  he  interviews,"  says 
Mert  Koplin,  producer  of  Walk  A  Mile. 
"Bill  is  never  stumped  by  a  man's  or 
woman's  occupation.  He  talks  almost  any- 
one's  language." 

He  never  took  up  doctoring  as  a  hobby 
(there's  a  law  against  it),  but  he  has  read 
enough  medical  books  to  know  a  knee  cap 
as  a  patella.  So  nurses  and  medics  like  to 
talk  to  Bill  .  .  .  and  so  do  engineers  and 
housewives  (Bill  can  cook  up  a  fine 
meal),  plus  pilots  and  mechanics. 

One  day  they  thought  they'd  stump  Bill 
with  a  contestant  who  worked  on  the  Uni- 
vac,  the  electronic  brain,  but  Bill  had  read 
quite  a  bit  about  it. 

"Matter  of  fact,  I  had  been  thinking  of 
buying  one,"  Bill  said.  The  man  noted  that 
a  Univac  costs  more  than  a  million  dollars. 
"I  offered  him  ten  per  cent — and  the  rest 
of  my  life  in  easy  payments." 

The  man  explained  that  the  Univac  was 


large  and  required  a  room  twenty  by 
thirty  feet.  Frankly,  there  are  already  so 
many  hobbies  and  gadgets  in  Bill's  apart- 
ment that  it's  unlikely  he  could  squeeze 
in  another  measuring  only  twenty  by 
thirty  inches.  Last  summer,  Bill  had  to 
chop  a  hole  in  a  bookcase  to  make  space 
for  a  fish  tank  in  the  den.  He  had  already 
sealed  off  access  to  the  fireplace  with  an- 
other fish  tank. 

"I've  grown  to  hate  fish,"  he  now  ad- 
mits, ruefully.  "They're  incredibly  canni- 
balistic. They  attack  the  young  and  weak 
and  sick." 

Bill  boned  up  on  fish,  but  he  admits  he 
had  picked  up  the  hobby  inadvertently. 
He  had  originally  bought  them  to  use  as 
subjects  for  color  movies.  Matter  of  fact, 
he  had  no  intention  of  making  movies, 
either,  when  he  first  walked  into  the  cam- 
era store.  He  had  seen  a  couple  of  flood- 
lights he  liked  in  the  window.  The  clerk 
asked  Bill  what  kind  of  photography  he 
did.  Bill  told  him  mostly  "still."  The  man 
said  the  lights  were  for  movies. 

"So,  in  order  to  buy  the  lights,  I  first 
had  to  get  a  movie  camera  and  a  projector 
and  a  splicer  and  tripods  and  a  mess  of 
other  things,"  Bill  says.  "The  fish  came 
afterwards." 

But  fish,  of  course,  aren't  gadgets. 
Gadget-wise,  Bill  owns  magic  para- 
phernalia, a  flock  of  cameras,  recording 
equipment  and  a  lot  of  other  hard  stuff — 
including  musical  instruments  and  art 
materials — all  jammed  into  shelves  and 
closets.  In  one  closet,  there  is  a  fine,  sensi- 
tive altimeter  which  he  once  used  in  his 
private  airplane. 

"It's  a  good  thing  to  have  around  the 
apartment,"  Bill  says.  "Every  once  in  a 
while,  I  plug  in  the  altimeter  and  check 
our  altitude.  It  gives  me  confidence  in  the 
building." 

Although  Bill  at  the  moment  owns  no 
plane,  he  hasn't  by  any  means  given  up 
flying.  He's  an  excellent  pilot  and,  for  a 
year  or  more,  owned  several  planes  and 
ran  a  small  airline  of  his  own.  However, 
it  got  too  expensive  for  even  a  high-rated 
radio  star,  and  Bill  sold  all  the  planes. 
Now,  when  he  gets  a  free  day,  he  goes  out 
to  the  airport  and  rents  one. 

"I  just  get  up  and  roam,"  he  says.  "It's 
just  a  question  of  getting  away  from 
everything  in  that  big  quiet." 

While  Bill  goes  up  mostly  for  relaxation 
and  rest,  he  occasionally  has  gone  sight- 
seeing or  visiting  friends  in  New  England 
by  plane.  And  there  was  that  Friday  he 
told  his  pretty  brunette  wife  Carol  to 
dress  for  dinner  and  then  proceeded  to 
drive  her  to  the  airport.  Carol,  conscious 
of  their  both  having  dressed  nicely  and 
properly  for  dinner  out,  turned  two  eyes 
curled  with  question  marks  at  Bill,  as  he 
led  her  to  the  plane. 

"We're  flying  to  Boston  for  dinner, 
naturally,"  he  said. 

And  they  did.  And,  after  dinner  in  Bos- 
ton, they  came  back  to  Manhattan  to  see 
a  movie.  Naturally. 

"It  sounded  like  fun,  going  to  Boston 
just  for  dinner,"  Bill  recalls,  "and  it  was." 

This  is  the  one  thing  Bill's  friends  find 
most  consistent  in  him:  He  is  fun.  Bill's 
verve  is  as  constant  off  the  air  as  on.  But 
he's  no  freak.  Bill  can  be  upset. 

"He  can  be  disturbed  about  something, 
but  he  swallows  it  up  in  front  of  you  and 
smiles,"  says  Millicent  Holloway.  "He  just 
doesn't  like  to  give  others  a  hard  time." 

Millicent  and  her  husband  have  been 
friends  of  the  Cullens  for  years.  She  also 
assists  Bill  with  a  lot  of  his  work  and  so 
knows  him  well.  She  recalls  riding  across 
town  with  him.  Their  cab  stopped  at  a 
traffic  light  and  Bill's  eyes  suddenly 
welled  up  with  tears.  He  was  staring  at  an 


old  man  on  the  sidewalk.  The  old  man  was 
tired  and  poor  and  wearing  hand-me- 
downs  which  drooped  to  his  feet.  And 
there  was  so  obviously  nothing  anyone 
could  do  for  him  any  more. 

"I  got  it,  too,"  Millicent  says,  "and  my 
eyes  got  real  heavy  and  wet.  Then  Bill 
took  it  upon  himself  to  pull  us  out  of  it 
and  he  swallowed  it  right  down,  and  in 
the  next  block  he  had  me  distracted  and 
chuckling  about  something." 

His  sensitivity  to  others  is  just  one  of 
many  nice  traits.  He's  also  generous  to  an 
extreme.  He  has  turned  to  Millicent  in  the 
office  and  said,  "Please  call  the  florist  and 
have  him  send  poinsettias  to  my  mother. 
And,  while  you're  at  it,  have  them  sent  to 
Carol's  mother  and  yours,  too." 

When  a  friend  is  hard  up,  Bill  comes 
galloping  up  on  a  white  steed.  He's  cre- 
ated jobs  for  friends  who  needed  immedi- 
ate help.  He'll  go  to  bat  for  someone  in 
the  business  who  needs  a  door  opened. 
And  then,  too,  Bill  is  brave. 

Bravery  is  a  word  seldom  required  in 
talking  about  radio  people.  You  meet  few 
ravenous  lions  in  studios,  and  not  many 
dressing  rooms  are  heavily  mined,  but 
everyone  in  the  business  says  Bill  is  brave. 
He  talks  up  and  talks  back,  when  he 
thinks  he's  right.  And  he  talks  up  and 
back  to  producers,  sponsors  and  other 
powerful  men. 

"Mostly  it  boils  down  to  one  thing  that 
he  is  defending,"  a  friend  says,  "and  that 
is  the  right  of  the  individual  to  act  as  an 
individual.  You  can  make  him  angry  by 
saying,  'Bill,  you've  got  to  do  this  my 
way.'  He  believes  people  need  lots  of  el- 
bow room  for  thinking  and  doing.  And, 
incidentally,  he'll  fight  just  as  hard  for 
another  person's  right  to  the  same  privi- 
leges." 

These  somewhat  serious  dissections  of 
Bill  may  come  as  a  shock  to  many  of  his 
friends  and  fans — and  to  Bill,  too.  Bill, 
especially,  for  he  refuses  to  be  visibly  im- 
pressed by  Cullen. 

Some  of  Bill's  friends  have,  from  time 
to  time  over  the  years,  tried  to  take  a 
good  photograph  of  him.  They'll  find  a  fat 
cloud  in  the  sky  and  tilt  his  chin  up 
against  that,  and  take  special  light  read- 
ings, and  figure  this  is  going  to  be  a  pic- 
ture worthy  of  Bill  Cullen.  But,  just  as 
the  shutter  clicks,  Bill  sticks  out  his 
tongue  or  crosses  his  eyes  or  wiggles  his 
ears.  Bill  just  can't  take  himself  seriously 
in  that  sense.  He  will  take  your  problems 
seriously,  but  not  his  and  not  himself. 

Consider  that  apartment  of  his.  You 
wouldn't  dare  walk  in  and  ask  him, 
"What's  new?"  You'd  be  liable  to  get  an 
answer. 

"The  mynah  is  new." 

Now  a  mynah — which  everyone  needs 
in  his  home  like  a  hole  in  the  roof — is  a 
kind  of  starling  that  looks  like  a  black 
crow.  It  is  a  rare  bird  and  costs  about  $500 
without  cage,  automatic  drive  and  other 
accessories.  What  makes  the  mynah  worth 
$500  is  that  it  can  be  taught  to  repeat 
words  better  than  a  parrot.  Now,  this 
mynah  that  Bill  took  unto  himself  goes  by 
the  name  of  Henry — and  calls  everyone 
else  "Charlie." 


"Henry's  simple  to  take  care  of,"  Bill 
says,  with  a  wry  smile.  "You  have  to  keep 
him  out  of  drafts  but,  again,  the  room 
can't  be  too  warm  for  him.  And,  if  he  isn't 
asleep  on  schedule,  he's  in  a  bad  humor. 
His  meals  are  more  complicated  than  a 
French  chef's.  Henry's  bananas  have  to  be 
mashed.  I  must  peel  his  orange,  then 
break  it  into  small  segments,  then  peel  the 
skin  off  the  segments  and  then  pick  out  all 
the  seeds.  And  he  doesn't  eat  domestic 
bird  seeds.  Only  the  expensive,  imported 
kind." 

Bill  got  Henry  mostly  for  professional 
reasons.  He  hoped  to  teach  Henry  some 
phrases  and  then  use  him  on  radio  and 
TV. 

"As  you  know,"  Bill  explains,  "someone 
always  has  to  say  with  enthusiasm,  'And 
here's  Bill  Cullen.'  Well,  I  feel  sorry  for 
the  guy  who  has  to  say  that,  especially 
with  enthusiasm." 

So  Bill  decided  to  train  Henry  the 
mynah  to  say,  "And  here's  Bill  Cullen." 
He  made  a  recording  of  it  and  instructed 
his  maid  to  keep  the  record  going  all  day. 
Henry  was  kept  in  the  same  room  with 
the  phonograph,  and  the  maid  would 
bring  in  her  ironing  or  whatever  it  was, 
and  she  played  the  record  over  and  over. 
This  went  on  for  a  week. 

"With  no  results,"  Bill  says.  "I  was 
ready  to  give  up,  but  I  figured  I'd  give  the 
bird  one  more  week." 

The  middle  of  the  second  week,  Bill 
came  in  the  front  door,  stopped  suddenly 
and  cocked  his  ear. 

"I  heard  it  over  and  over  again,  'And 
here's  Bill  Cullen.  And  here's  Bill  Cullen. 
And  here's  Bill  Cullen.'" 

Bill  grins  as  he  explains,  "It  was  the 
maid.  She'd  learned  the  line  perfectly." 

Now,  in  the  interest  of  domestic  science, 
Bill  is  trying  to  help  the  maid  unlearn  the 
line  and  give  it  to  the  mynah.  And,  when 
she  does  and  he  does,  you'll  meet  Henry 
on  the  air. 

"Bill's  imaginative,"  says  Mert  Koplin, 
"and  he's  very  much  alive.  From  Bill,  you 
expect  the  unexpected." 

And  Bill's  friends  generally  expect  to  be 
surprised.  He  is  seldom  routine.  For 
birthdays  and  holidays,  he  makes  plans. 
But,  any  other  time,  he  is  likely  to  phone 
after  six  in  the  evening  and  say,  "Let's 
get  together  tonight." 

And,  no  matter  where  they  go  or  what 
they  do,  an  evening  with  Bill  is  guaran- 
teed to  be  fun.  At  home,  he  likes  to  get 
the  fireplace  in  business  and  roast  weiners 
and  toast  marshmallows.  He  may  call  on 
his  friends  to  act  out  in  slow-motion  a 
couple  of  scenes  for  a  home  movie.  He 
tells  a  good  story  and  he  sings  pretty  well, 
with  a  warm,  resonant  voice. 

"I've  got  five  good  notes,"  he  says,  "but 
I  can't  get  above  middle  C." 

If  you  want  to  talk  seriously  about  poli- 
tics or  wars  or  people,  you'll  find  Bill 
well-read  and  interested.  If  you  want  a 
sympathetic  ear  for  your  troubles,  you 
couldn't  ask  for  anyone  more  sensitive. 
But  one  thing's  sure:  When  it's  all  over, 
and  you  leave  Bill — you'll  be  smiling.  For 
Bill  Cullen's  fun.  He  just  will  not  leave 
you  with  a  frown. 


from  OZZ1E  and  HARRIET  NELSON 

An  enchanting  full-color  portrait  of  this  devoted  couple  on  the  cover  .  .  . 
an  inside-the-family  story  of  their  life  with  sons  David  and  Ricky  ...  plus 
pictures  and  features  of  many  other  favorite  stars  and  programs  ...  all  in 

March  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  at  your  newsstand  February  8 


Ifoy  Can  Play 


.  .  .  even  if  you  don't  know 
o  single  note  of  music  now! 

IMAGINE!  Even  if  you  never  dreamed  you  could  play  .  .  . 
you  can  soon  surprise  your  friends  with  your  musical 
ability.  No  special  "talent"  or  previous  training  needed. 
Spend  just  a  few  minutes  a  day — and  only  a  few  cents  per 
lesson.  Teach  yourself  to  play  piano,  guitar,  accordion, 
whatever  instrument  you  choose.  Make  amazingly  rapid 
progress  because  you  start  right  out  playing  reaf  pieces 
by    note.    No    boring    exercises   to   do.    Over   900,000    people 

have  chosen  this  easy  home  study  method. 

(Out  57th  successful  year.) 

FREE  BOOK  shows  how  easily  you  can  learn 
music  this  modern  way.  Mail  coupon  for 
FREE  BOOK  to:  U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC, 
Studio   A202,    Port  Washington,    N.   Y. 

U.   S.   SCHOOL  OF   MUSIC, 

Studio  A202,    Port  Washington,   N.  Y. 

Please    send    me    your     36-page    illustrated    Free    Book. 
I'm  interested  in  playing  (name  instrument) 


□  I  do 


D   I  do  NOT — have  instrument  now. 


Name 

Address.. 


(please   print) 


NEW,  NATURAL  LIGHTWEIGHT 

DENTAL  PLATE 


WW  MS 

*159-5 


MADE  FROM  YOUR  OLD  ONE— New,  Professional 

Method  gives  you  natural-look intr.perfect-ntt inn  plastic 

plate— upper,  lower  or  partial— from  your  old  cracked  or 

loose  plate  without  an  impression.  CLINICAL  method 

means  fast  service,  huge  savings.  Try  new  plate  full  30 

days  at  our  risk.  New  plates  sent  you  Air  Mail  so.  me  daij, 

CCMn  lin   lLiinMrV~Justyournameapd address  for  full  particu- 

DLMlU  I1U   IflUltLI  Jars  FREE.  Nocost.  Noobligation.  Actnow. 

CLINICAL  DENTAL  LAB.  ,335  W.  Madison  St., Dept.99-B,  Chicago  6,  111, 

CORNS 

Removed  by  Mosco.also  Calluses. 
Quick,  easy,  economical.  Just  rub 
on.  Jars,  35 1, 60  ^.  At  your  druggist.  Money  refund- 
ed if  not  satisfied.  Moss  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

•CORN* 
REMOVER 


MOSCO 


ENLARGEMENT 

or* yew  Wauof/fe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
.  ity  5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
l^  shot,  photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
\\  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
——flff^vS  Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
«^/!W77iuUilVV  ment  beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10#  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW1 

HOLLYWOOD   FILM   STUDIOS.   Dept.   F-2 

7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd.,    Hollywood   38,    Calif. 


RELIEF 


in  ALL 

miseries 


these  C01D 


^Tabcin 


SNEEZES  •  WATERY  EYES 

•  FEVERISH  FEELING* 
HEADACHE  •   RUNNING 
NOSE  •  GENERAL  ACHES 


•   THROAT    IRRITATIONS  BFTTca  THAN   EVfff 
•    COUGHING    •  "»tK  In" 


MILES  LABORATORIES,  INC.,  Elkhart,  Indiana 


99 


100 


Test  Tummy-Slim's  Interlocking  Hands 
This  Way.  Interlock  hands  across 
abdomen  as  pictured,  then  j 
gently  press  up  and  in.  Feel  1 
and  look  better?  Of  course!  i 


One  ZIP  To 
Beauty!  Weighs  Practi- 
cally Zero  —  You  Never 
Know  It's  On!  For  today's 
elegant  long-line  torso 
SLIM -QUICK'S  feather- 
light  honing  and  hug- 
light  waist  give  perfect 
form-fit.  And  You  Move 
and  Breathe  In  Comfort 
I  hanks  to  the  Low-Cut 
s  t  r  e  t  c  li  clastic  hack. 
Wears  Beautifully.  Stays 
Shapely  After  Sudsing. 
ALL  NYLON.    QNLY  $R95 


>5S 


MAIL  COUPON  TODAY 


WARD   GREEN   CO.  DEPT.  J-802 

43  W.  61st  St.#  N.  Y.  23,  N.  Y. 

I've  indicated  my  selection.  Send  for  10  Day  Free  Trial. 

ITEM  SIZE  PRICE 


,— i  Tummy 
u  Slim 


■    '■ 


□ 


Waist  Cinch 
Bra 


i-i  Slim  Quick 
^  All-In-One 


Waist- 
Hip 


Bra Cup. 

Waist 


Bra Cup 

Waist 


$3.98  (Sizes  22-48) 

Extra  Crotch  501,  5  for  $2 


$2.98  (Sizes  32-48) 
A,  B  and  C  Cup 


$5.95 


n  Payment  enclosed.  Ward  Green  Co.  pays  postage. 
["J  Send  CO. D.  I'll  pay  postman  plus  charges. 
Refund  of  Purchase  Price  guaranteed. 


Name. 


Address. 
City 


_Zone_ 


.State. 


M»\NAMONfy 


WEARING 


Gently  flared 
skirt,  new 
sleek  torso 
line  .  .  . 
flatters  you  ! 


/M 


AND   SHOWING 

LOVELY  DRESSES! 

Ladies— here's  the  best  news  you  ever  heard!  Your  chance  to  get  a 

whole  new  beautiful  wardrobe  of  your  own ...  a  stunning  collection 

of  the  most  colorful  new  styles  .  .  .  WITHOUT  PAYING  A 

SINGLE  PENNY!  And  — unbelievable  though  it  sounds— you 

can  make  up  to  $100  in  a  month  wearing  these  glorious  dresses 

—  and  showing  them  to  your  friends ! 

HERE'S  ALL  YOU  DO! 

Wear  these  lovely  Fashion  Frocks  which  are  furnished 

according  to  our  unusual  plan.  What  could  be  more  pleas- 

i     ant?  You  have  your  choice  of  over  150  striking  new 

styles— designed  by  one  of  America's  best  known  dress 

companies.  When  friends  ask  about  them— (as  they're 

bound  to! )— simply  explain  how  you  can  get  them  the 

same  exquisite  styles.  Your  friends,  relatives,  neighbors— 

almost  any  woman  you  know— will  jump  at  the  chance  to 

get  these  dresses. 

NO  CANVASSING  ...  NO  EXPERIENCE! 

No  woman  can  resist  such  smart,  original  styles  .  .  .  such 
magnificent  colors  and  fabrics.  And  there's  a  complete 
range  of  sizes  for  every  type  of  figure  .  .  .  Misses,  Half- 
Sizes,  Juniors  and  Stouts.  Until  you  actually  see  the 
breath-taking  portfolio  of  new  Fashion  Frocks,  you 
•^      simply  can't  imagine  the 
amazing  variety  of 


styles,  colors,  weaves 
and    patterns. 
What's  more,  each  dress  carries 
our  own  unconditional  guaran- 
tee of  satisfaction.   So   it's   no 
wonder  you'll  be  making  BIG 
MONEY  wearing  and  show- 
ing them  to  your  friends.  Best 
of  all,  there's  no  door-to-door 
canvassing.  You  need  no  expe- 
rience either.  And  to  top  off  the 
whole  wonderful  plan,  you  can 
get  new  dresses  for  yourself.  For 
every  $30  earned  in  a  month, 
you  get  a  $10.98  dress  besides. 


Jr* 


RUSH 

rlf  E  E 

COUPON 


NO   OBLIGATION   OF   ANY   KIND! 

The  coupon  brings  you  a  striking  Style  Portfolio, 
showing  the  whole  thrilling  array  of  Fashion  Frocks 
designs  in  glorious  colors.  And  you'll  receive  actual 
fabric  samples  of  each  exclusive  new  style.  And  don't 
forget!  Everything  you  get  is  absolutely  without 
obligation  of  any  kind  ! 


Fill  out  the  coupon  and  send  in  before  the  quota  is 
filled.  Don't  miss  this  chance  of  a  lifetime!  Paste 
coupon  on  postcard  —  Rush  .' 


*4    INC. 
Cincinnati  25,  Ohio 


FASHION  FROCKS,  INC. 

Dept.  S-2053,  Cincinnati  25,  Ohio 

Yes.  I'd  like  to  be  one  of  the  women  who  get  the  chance  to  make  up 
to  SI 00  a  month  while  wearing,  showing  your  dresses.  Without 
obligating  me  in  any  way.  please  send  everything  1  need  to  get  started. 

Name 

Address 

City  &  Zone State 

Age Dress  Size 


In  Canada,  North  American   Fashion   Frocks,  Ltd. 
2163  Parthenais,  Dept.S-2053,Montreal,  P.Q. 


If  you  live  in  Canada,  mail  this  coupon  to  North  American  Fashion 
■    Frocks,  Ltd.,  2163  Parthenais,  Montreal,  P.Q. 


Chesterfield  Regular  &  King  Size... 
America's  Most  Popular  2-way  Cigarette 

Like  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Rory  Calhoun,  you  smoke 
with  the  greatest  possible  pleasure  when  your 
cigarette  is  Chesterfield. 

You  will  like  Chesterfield  best  because  only 
Chesterfield  has  the  right  combination  of  the 
world's  best  tobaccos  -  highest  in  quality,  low  in 
nicotine  -  best  for  you. 


IN   THE   WHOLE   WIDE   WORLD 
NO   CIGARETTE   Sd&fTfced,    LIKE   A 


CHESTERFIELD 


Liggett  &  Myers  Tobacco  Co 


— 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


NEW! 

HERB  SHRINER 

Happy  Hoosier 

BURR  TILLSTROM 
MEET  LORD  HENRY 


MAR. 

N.Y.  radio, 
TV  listings 


ARRY  MOORE 

riously  Speaking 


IELE  MacKENZIE 

iging  Cinderella 


OB  ROCKWELL 

Brooks'  Dreamboat 


NEW    MILLIONS    HAVE    TRIED    IT!     NEW    MILLIONS    LOVE    IT1 


' 

mmm 

***«*■ 

■ 

mm 

■ 

mm* 

.:     r 

"New  cold  cream  Camay  is  my  idea  of  the 

perfect  beauty  soap,"  says  Mrs.  Jess  Altman, 

an  enchanting  Camay  Bride.  "It's  so  mild  and  gentle, 

I  just  love  the  feel  of  it  on  my  skin.  And  I  love  the  way 

it  keeps  my  complexion  looking  its  best,  too." 


Yes,  gentle,  luxurious  Camay  with  its  caressing  care  can  be  the  best 
friend  your  complexion  ever  had!  With  its  skin-pampering  mildness, 
velvety  lather,  and  exclusive  fragrance,  it's  the  beauty  secret  of 
SO  many  exquisite  brides.  Let  it  caress  your  skin  to  new  loveliness,  too. 
Just  change  to  regular  care  .  .  .  use  Camay  and  Camay  alone. 
You'll  sec  your  skin  become  fresher,  more  radiant,  softer  with  your 
first  satin-smooth  cake.  And  remember,  there's  precious  cold 
(ream  in  Camay— added  luxury  at  no  extra  cost.  For  your  beauty 


NOW   IN 

AMAY 


Let  it  help  you 

to  a  fresher,  clearer. 

more  radiant  complexion ! 


and  your  bath,  there's  no  finer  soap  in  all  the  world. 


THE    SOAP 


EAUTIFUL   WOMEN 


'WhatOou  haven't  Med  NEW  IMNA?" 


Tune  in  Garry  on  CBS  Television 
Network,  Mod.  through  Fri.  See 
local  paper  for  time  and  channel. 


Your  teeth  never  had  it  so  good,  says  Garry  Moore. 
"  Its  the  BEST-TASTING  way  to  HOHT  DECAY' 


"Cavities  are  no  fun,"  says  fun-loving 
Garry,  "so  we  Moores  use  the  paste 
with  the  taste  that  makes  it  fun  to 
fight  decay.  I  mean  new  Ipana." 

And  most  people  are  just  as  enthusi- 
astic as  Garry  about  Ipana's  new  fla- 
vor. It  beat  every  other  leading  tooth 


paste  hands  down — after  nationwide 
home  taste  tests. 

Destroys  decay  and  bad-breath 
bacteria  with  WD-9 
More  good  news  is  the  way  wonder- 
ingredient  WD-9  in  new-formula 
Ipana  fights  tooth  decay,  stops  bad 


New-Formula  IPANA 

WITH  BACTERIA-DESTROYER  WD-9 


breath  all  day.  It  destroys  most  mouth 
bacteria  with  every  single  brushing. 

"The  only  thing  about  Ipana  they 
haven't  improved  is  the  stripes  on  the 
carton,"  Garry  adds.  So  try  new  Ipana 
yourself  .  .  .  enjoy  it  .  .  .  and  trust 
your  family's  precious  teeth  to  it. 


Let  me  send  you  a  generous  trial  tube— mail  coupon  today. 

Garry  Moore,  Bristoi.-Myers  Co., 
Dept.  T-35,  Hillside,  N.  J. 

Please  send  me  a  trial  tube  of  new-formula 
Ipana.  Enclosed  is  30  stamp  to  cover  part  cost 
of  handling. 

Name . 


Street- 
/City_ 


-Zone_ 


_State_ 


Ipana  A/C  Tooth  Paste  (Ammoniated  Chlorophyll)  also  contains  bacteria -destroyer  WD-9  (Sodium  Lauryl  Sulfate) 


(Offer  good  only  in  continental  U.S.A. 
Expires  June  1, 1955.) 


WF 


DOCTOR'S 
DEODORANT 
DISCOVERY 

SAFELY  STOPS  ODOR 
24  HOURS  A  DAY! 


i  \ 

/    '^^        m 

PROVED  IN  UNDERARM  COMPARISON  I 

TESTS  MADE  BY  A  DOCTOR  I 

•  Deodorant  without  M-3,  tested  under  | 

one  arm,  stopped  perspiration  odor  only  l 


a  few  hours. 


•  New  Mum  with  M-3,  tested  under    . 
other  arm,  stopped  odor  a  full  24  hours.    ] 


New  MUM  with  M-3 

won't  irritate  normal  skin 

or  damage  fabrics 

1.  *  Exclusive  deodorant  based  originally  on 
doc-tor's  discovery,  now  contains  long-lasting 
M-3  (Hexachlorophene). 

2.  Slops  odor  all  day  long  because  invisible 
M-3  clings  to  your  skin—  keeps  on  destroying 
odor  bacteria  a  full  24  hours. 

3.  Non-irritating  to  normal  skin.  Use  it  daily. 
Only  leading  deodorant  containing  no  strong 
chemical  astringents  — will  not  block  pores. 

4.  Won't  rot  or  discolor  fabrics  — certified  by 
American  Institute  of  Laundering. 

5.  Delicate  new  fragrance.  Creamier  texture  — 
New  Mum  won't  dry  out  in  the  jar. 


MUM 


cream  deodorant 
I       with  long-lasting 

R  AA-3  (hexaciilorophene) 


yv\D 


ANOTHER    FINE    PRODUCT   OF   BltltTOL'MYCRI 


MARCH,  1955 


W  RADIO 
MIRROR 


VOL.  43,  NO.  4 


Keystone  Edition 


Ann    Higginbotham,    Editor 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Editorial  Assistant 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


people  on  the  air 


What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren       6 

December  Winners  of  Beat  The  Clock's  Exciting  Big  Contest 21 

"The  Best   Reason  for  Living"    (Ozzie,  Harriet,   David   and 

Ricky  Nelson) by  Bud  Goode 

Garry  Moore — Seriously  Speaking by  Martin  Cohen 

Greater  Than  Glamour    (Ethel  Wilson) by  Mary  Temple 

Magic  Gift  of  Life  (Burr  Tillstrom) by  Helen  Bolstad 

Patricia  Barry's  First  Love by  Frances  Kish 

Just  Plain  Bill  (illustrated  episode  from  the  beloved  radio  serial).... 
The  Guiding  Light  (picture  story  from  the  popular  TV  daytime  drama) 

Luck's  Really  a  Lady  (Peg  Lynch) by  Ed  Meyerson 

Lord  Henry  Discovers  America  .(Alastair  Duncan)  ....by  Alice  Francis 
Who's  Who  in  TV  Dramas  (Harry  Townes,  Olive  Deering,  Eric 

Dressier,  E.  G.  Marshall,  June  Lockhart,  Paul  Newman) 64 

Thanks  for  the  Lift!    (Jan  Murray) by  Harold  Keene     68 

Play  Editor  (tell  us  your  favorite  stars  and  shows) 102 


features  in  full  color 


Miss  Brooks'  Dreamboat  (Robert  Rockwell)..". by  Gordon  Budge  46 

Every  Home  Should  Have  One  (Herb  Shriner)....by  Philip  Chapman  48 

Sing  and  Be  Happy  (Gisele  MacKenzie) by  Ernst  Jacobi  52 

Being  a  Father  Ts  Fun  (Tony  Martin) by  Bob  Welles  54 


your  local  station 

Celebrities  a  la  Carte   (WABC) 

Presenting  Martha  Manners   (WKTV). 

The  Mann  in  Your  Life  (WABD) 

"Don't  Call  Me  Deejay"   (WHDH) 


18 

28 


your  special  services 


Information    Booth 10 

Steve  Allen's  Turntable 14 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 16 

Daytime  Diary •. 22 

Inside   Radio    (program  listings) 72 

TV   Program   Highlights 74 

New  Patterns  for  You   (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 94 


buy    your    April    copy    early     •     on    sale    March    8 


PUBLISHED    MONTHLY   by   Macfadden   Publications,    Inc..    New 

York,  n.  y. 

EXECUTIVE,  ADVERTISING  AND  EDITORIAL  OFFICES  at 
20fl  Bast  42nd  Street,  Now  York,  N.  Y.  Editorial  Branch 
Offices:  :i21  South  Beverly  Drive,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.,  and 
221  North  La  Salle  Street,  Chicano.  111.  Harold  A.  Wise, 
Chairman  of  the  Board;  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President: 
i  .■••  Andrew!.  Vice  President;  Meyer  Dworkin,  Secretary 
Treasurer,    Advertising  officcH   also   in   Chicago   and   San 


Fn 


■  ■!:. 


SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and  Posses- 
wlons  and  Canada,  $5.00  por  year  for  all  other  countries, 
CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When  pos- 
uibie,  please  furnish  stencil-  Impression  address  from  a  re- 
cent Ifimie.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only  if  you  send  us 
your  old.  as  well  as  your  new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror,  205  Bast  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:    All  manuscripts  will  bo  carefully  considered. 

Member  o/  The  TRUE 


but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or  damage.  It 
is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self-addressed 
return  envelopes  or  with  sufficient  return  postage  will  be 
returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17, 
N.  Y.  Irving  S,  Manheimer,  President;  Douglas  Lockhart, 
Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954,  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3. 
1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O.  Dept..  Ottawa, 
Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1955  bv  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc. 
All  rights  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention. 
All  rights  reserved  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion. Todos  derechos  reservados  segun  La  Convencion  Pan- 
Americana  de  Propledad  Literarla  y  Artisticn.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Co. 
STORY    Women's    Group 


Given  was  still  laughing  when  she 
hung  up  the  receiver.  Jane  looked  on 
incredulously.  "But  he  has  a  car,  good 
looks,  a  good  job,"  she  protested.  "So 
what?"  Gwen  sneered.  " He' s  got  some- 
thing else,  too  .  .  .  something  that  nulli- 
fies every  charm." 

Jane  still  looked  blank. 

"I  mean,    honeybun,"    Gwen   said 
seriously,  "that  his  breath  is  that  way*." 


You  si?nply  don't  get  by  when  you're 
guilty  of  *halitosis  (bad  breath). 
Remember,  too,  that  men  are  often 
the  worst  offenders.  Isn't  it  just  com- 
mon sense  to  use  the  surest  thing 
you  know  to  overcome  this  condi- 
tion? Listerine  Antiseptic,  of  course 
. . .  night  and  morning  . . .  and  before 


any  date.  Listerine  stops 
bad  breath  and  keeps  it 
stopped  usually  for  hours 
on  end  .  .  .  four  times  better 
than  any  tooth  paste. 

No  Tooth  Paste  Kills  Odor 
Germs  Like  This  . . .  Instantly 

Listerine  Antiseptic  does  for  you 
what  no  tooth  paste  does.  Listerine 
instantly  kills  germs  ...  by  millions 
— stops  bad  breath  instantly,  and 
usually  for  hours  on  end. 

You  see,  far  and  away  the  most 
common  cause  of  offensive  breath 
is  the  fermentation,  produced  by 
germs,  of  proteins  which  are  always 
present  in  the  mouth.  And  research 
shows  that  your  breath  stays  sweeter 
longer,  the  more  you  reduce  germs  in  the 
mouth. 


Listerine  Clinically  Proved 

Four  Times  Better  Than 

Tooth  Paste 

No  tooth  paste,  of  course, 
is  antiseptic.  Chlorophyll 
does  not  kill  germs — but 
Listerine  kills  them  by  mil- 
lions, gives  you  lasting  antiseptic 
protection  against  bad  breath. 

Is  it  any  wonder  Listerine  Anti- 
septic in  recent  clinical  tests  averaged 
at  least  four  times  more  effective  in 
stopping  bad  breath  odors  than  the 
chlorophyll  products  or  tooth  pastes 
it  was  tested  against?  With  proof 
like  this,  it's  easy  to  see  why  Listerine 
belongs  in  your  home.  Every  morn- 
ing .  .  .  every  night .  .  .  before  every 
date,  make  it  a  habit  to  always  gargle 
Listerine,  the  most  widely  used  anti- 
septic in  the  world. 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC  STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  times  better  than  any  tooth  paste 


Every  week  on  Television 
"THE  ADVENTURES  OF  OZZIE  &  HARRIET' 


A  nose-for-news  man,  Frank's 
interviews   are   always   spicy. 


Actress  Eva  Marie  Saint  tells  listeners  and 
Frank  about  her  TV  and  movie  experiences. 


Frank's  warm   charm   put   Hildegarde 
and  Gloria  Swanson  into  a  gay  mood. 


Broadway     stars     Janis     Paige     and     Carol 
Haney  tell  Frank  about  "The  Pajama  Game." 


Frank  met  his  wife  Nina  at  a  party  in  Florida. 
Now  they  share  their  delight  over  little  Nina. 


Celebrities 

a  la  carte 

W ABC  listeners  are  daily  guests  of  a  sparkling 
luncheon  show,  courtesy  of  genial  Frank  Farrell 


Name  a  "name" — a  movie  star,  prince,  national  hero  or  ace 
sports  figure — and  you've  named  a  personal  friend  of 
Frank  Farrell's.    And,  just  by  tuning  your  radio  dial  to  Station 
WABC  daily  at  12: 35  P.M.,  you  can  be  Frank's  guest  as  he 
plays  host  to  such  fascinating  celebrities  during  Luncheon  At 
The  Sheraton  With  Frank  Farrell.  .  .  .  Frank  is  well  qualified  for 
this  role,  for  he  has  been  keeping  tabs  on  celebrities  for  years 
in  his  popular  "New  York — Day  by  Day"  column  in  the  New 
York  World-Telegram  &  Sun  and  other  papers  throughout  the 
country.    Being  a  "nose-for-news  man"  explains  why  Frank's 
interviews  on  WABC  are  more  than  just  informal  chatter.  With 
his  reporter's  instinct,  his  relaxed,  cordial  manner,  he  eases 
his  guests  into  telling  the  behind-the-scenes  stories  which  have 
made  them  the  notables  they  are.  .  .  .  Frank,  a  fabulous 
figure  in  himself,  has  led  an  adventurous  life  since  he  was 
sixteen  and  won  his  first  newspaper  job — at  $3.50  a  week. 
One  of  his  most  famous  stories  was  "A  Night  Out  with  John 
Barrymore,"  which  led  to  his  winning  the  Editor  and  Publisher 
Award.   Another  highlight  of  his  career  occurred  when  Edgar 
Bergen's  beloved  Charlie  McCarthy  was  kidnaped  and  held  for 
ransom.    The  culprit?    Frank — who  still  claims,  "I  only  did  it  for 
a  gag."  .  .  .  After  working  his  way  through  college,  Frank 
went  on  to  receive  his  law  degree  from  New  York  University. 
He  spent  five  years  in  the  Marines  during  World  War  II  as 
a  reconnaissance  patrol  chief,  and  rescued  Allied  prisoners  of  war 
in  south  China.  Although  he  never  practiced  law,  Frank  made 
a  name  for  himself  when  he  uncovered  a  Nazi  spy  ring  operating 
in  the  Far  East  and  served  as  a  special  prosecutor  and 
principal  witness  at  the  trial  which  sentenced  21  spies.  .  .  . 
Frank  is  married  to  the  former  Nina  Rownd,  who  was  once 
voted  "the  most  beautiful  girl  in  Washington,  D.  C,"  and 
they  live  in  the  heart  of  Manhattan.  Since  the  arrival  of  his 
daughter  Nina  a  few  months  ago,  Frank  says,  "Being  a  brand-new 
daddy  will  probably  keep  me  at  home  more  hours,  and  that's 
okay  by  me."    WABC   listeners  willingly   second  that 
motion — as  long  as  Frank  continues  to  be  mikeside  at  least  once 
a  day  for  his  delightful  and  entertaining  luncheon  session. 


A  WONDERFUL  INTRODUCTORY  OFFER  TO  READERS  WHO  JOIN  THE  DOLLAR  BOOK  CLUB 
AND  AGREE  TO  PURCHASE  AS  FEW  AS  6  SELECTIONS  OUT  OF  THE  24  TO  BE  OFFERED  WITHIN  A  YEAR 


Forbidden 
loves— and  the 
tense    drama 
of  the  oper- 
ating room! 


The  Big  Dector-ISurie  Novel  of  Today! 
NOT  AS  A  STRANGER-Morton  Thompson 
The  nation's  No.  1  best-seller  for  many, 
many  months.  The  long,  powerful  story  of 
Lucas  ilarsh,  who  gave  everything  to  be- 
come a  doctor;  Kristina,  the  girl  he  so 
strangely  married,  and  the  beautiful  woman 
whose  temptations  shook  his  innermost  soul ! 
700-pages  of  exciting  "behind-the-scenes" 
reading!  Pub.  edition  $4.75 


The  Scandal  of  18th  Century  Venice! 

LORD  VANITY-Samuel  Shellabarger 
Even  pleasure-loving  Venice  in  1757  was 
shocked  by  the  affairs  of  ravishing  Countess 
Amalie.  Then  fate  threw  her  together  with 
an  ardent  young  musician, -an  aspiring  bal- 
lerina, and  a  dealer  in  black  magic  —  in  a 
web  of  fantastic  romance  and 
adventure !  By  the  author  of 
Captain  from  Castile.  Pub.  $3.95  , 


•'How  dare 
you  In- 
trude !  " 
Then  Ama- 
lie saw 
Richard 
and  her 
eyes  soft- 
ened. 


DESIREE 
Annemarie  Selinke 

At  19  this  lovely  vil- 
lage beauty  was  the 
much  admired  wife  of 
Napoleon's  greatest 
general  —  until  her 
strange  meetings  with 
Napoleon  himself 
rocked  Paris  with 
scandal!  512  pages. 
Pub.  ed.  $4.50 


SOLDIER  OF 

FORTUNE 

Ernest  K.  Gonn 

New  hit  by  the  au- 
thor of  The  High 
and  the  Mighty. 
The  story  of  lovely 
Jane  Hoyt  who 
went  to  Hong 
Kong  in  search  of 
her  missing  hus- 
band— then  fell  in 
love  with  another 
man  !  Romantic 
thriller  —  "holds 
reader  spell- 
bound!" Chicago 
Trib.   Pub.   $3.50 


THE  SILVER  CHALICE 

Thomas  B.  Costain 
The  story  of  the  young 
sculptor  assigned  to  make 
a  decorative  case  for  the 
cup  Christ  used  at  the 
Last  Supper,  and  the  two 
women,  one  good,  one 
evil,  who  diverted  him. 
Long-run  best-sejler,  now 
a  great  movie !  Pub.  $3.85 


THORNDIKE-BARNHART  DICTIONARY 

New,  up-to-date!  80,000  entries,  700  illus- 
trations, 10,000  explanatory  phrases,  5000 
synonyms  and  antonyms,  900  pages.  Hundreds 
of  notes  on  correct  usage,  word  origins,  many 
other  useful  features.  Pub.  ed.  $2.95 


HIGH  WATER 
Richard  Bissell 

Pulse-pounding  tale  of 
adventure  on  the  Miss- 
issippi —  of  the  fatefu! 
trip  of  the  Royal  Prince 
caught  in  a  raging  flood 
—  of  first-mate  Duke 
Snyder  and  Marie  Chou- 
teau, the  lovely  wildcat 
he  rescued  from  a  ma- 
rooned island.  Racy,  ex- 
citing !  Pub.  ed.  $3.75 

GONE  WITH 

THE  WIND 

Margaret 

Mitchell 

Greatest  best- 
seller of  the  cen- 
tury in  a  new 
edition !  The  un- 
forgettable love 
story  of  Scarlett 
O  '  H  ara  and 
Rhett  Butler  — 
a  book  to  read, 
and  read  again. 
689  pages. 
Pub.    ed.   $2.95 

AMERICAN  CAPTAIN 
Edison  Marshall 

New  hit  by  the  author  of 
Yankee  Pasha.  The  wind- 
swept coast  of  Malta  in  the 
1800's  provides  the  setting 
for  this  stormy  romance  of 
a  rugged  Yankee  sailor  and 
the  exquisite  daughter  of  an 
English  nobleman.  "Sultry 
love  and  high  adventure ! — 
N.  Y.  Times.  Pub.  ed.  $3.95 


MODERN  FAMILY  COOK  BOOK-Meta  Given 

New  edition,  1,137  recipes!  Plans  your  meals, 
guides  your  shopping,  makes  meal  preparation  a 
pleasure.  640  pages,  16  full  color  plates,  many 
other  pictures,   helpful  features.   Pub.  ed.  $4.95 


AN  OPPORTUNITY  YOU  MUSTN'T  MISS!    I  mail  this  coupon 


CHOOSE  any  3  books  on  this  page  for 
only  $1  when  you  join  the  Dollar 
Book  Club.  This  big  introductory  offer 
is  made  to  demonstrate  the  wonderful 
values  you  enjoy  as  a  member. 

Save  Up  to  75%  on  New  Books 

(compared  with  prices  of  pub.  editions) 
Imagine— the  same  new  books  costing 
up  to  $3.95  in  publishers'  editions  come 
to  Club  members  for  only  $1  each!  The 
biggest  hits  by  top  authors  like  Frank 
Yerby,  Daphne  du  Maurier,  Thomas  B. 
Costain,  Frances  Parkinson  Keyes  and 
many  others,  have  come  to  members  at 
this  low  $1  price.  Occasionally,  extra- 
value  selections  at  $1.49  are  offered.  All 
are  full-size,  hard-bound  books  in  hand- 
some Club  editions. 

In  addition,  the  Club  frequently  of- 
fers other  very  desirable  books  .  .  .  use- 
ful homemaker  volumes... beautiful  de- 

DOUBLEDAY  ONE  DOLLAR  BOOK 


luxe  books  .  .  .  books  of  cultural  value 
...  at  special  Club  prices  which  save 
you  up  to  75%!  But  you  take  only  the 
books  you  want— and  you  do  not  have 
to  take  one  every  month.  You  may  take 
as  few  as  six  selections  out  of  the  24  to 
be  offered  within  a  year. 

Mail  Coupon— Send  No  Money 

Receive  any  3  books  you  choose  from 
this  page  for  only  $1,  plus  a  small  ship- 
ping charge.  Two  books  are  your  gift 
for  joining,  and  one  is  your  first  selec- 
tion. Thereafter,  you  will  receive  regu- 
larly the  Club's  Bulletin,  which  de- 
scribes the  forthcoming  selections  and 
other  book  bargains  for  members  only. 
If  not  delighted  with  your  introduc- 
tory Three-Book  bargain  package— re- 
turn all  books  and  your  membership 
will  be  cancelled  without  further  obli- 
gation. Mail  the  coupon  at  once. 

CLUB,  GARDEN  CITY,  NEW  YORK 


Doubleday  Dollar  Book  Club,  Dept.  3TV-R,  Garden  City,  New  York 

Please  enroll  me  as  a  Dollar  Book  Club  member.  Send  me  at 
once  as  my  gift  books  and  fitst  selection  the  3  books  checked 
below— and  bill  me  ONLY  $1  FOR  ALL  3.  plus  a  small  ship- 
ping charge. 

D  American  Captain      □  High  Water  D  Not  As  a  Stranger 

DDesiree  D  Lord  Vanity  DThe  Silver  Chalice 

DGone  With  the  Wind  □  Modern  Family  Cook  Book  □  Soldier  of  Fortune 

DThorndike-Barnhart  Dictionary 
Also  send  my  first  issue  of  The  Bulletin,  telling  me  about  the 
new  forthcoming  one-dollar  book  selections  and  other  bargains 
for  members.  I  may  notify  you  in  advance  if  I  do  not  wish  the 
following  month's  selections.  I  do  not  have  to  accept  3  book 
every  month — only  six  a  year.  I  pay  nothing  except  $1  for  each 
selection  I  accept,  plus  a  small  snipping  charge  (unless  I  choose 
an  extra -value  selection). 

NO-RISK  GUARANTEE:  If  not  delighted  return  all 
books  In  7  days  and  membership  will  be  cancelled. 

Mr. 

Mrs _ 

Miss 

Address „. 

City- 

&  Zone Stat* 

In  Canada,  selection  price  $1.10  plus  shipping;  address  Doubled!? 
Book  Club.  105  Bond  St,  Toronto  2   Offer  good  in  U.  S.  &  Canada  only. 


Please 
•   Print 


•  By  Jill  Warren 


:■■: 


Our  Miss  Brooks'  Bob  Rockwell,  Gale  Gordon  and 
Dick  Crenna  are  more  in  harmony,  when  off  camera! 


gtffcpgr' 


! 


-• 


Julius  La  Rosa  takes  part  in  the  gala  opening  cere- 
monies for  the  Fifth  Avenue  Necchi-Elna  sewing 
center  in  New  York — and  has  his  autograph  stitched 
up  in   new  style   by  one   of  the   pretty   instructors. 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM 


Ted  Mack's  Original  Amateur  Hour 
is  all  set  to  come  back  to  televi- 
sion, on  the  old  home  network,  NBC. 
There  was  such  a  holler  from  view- 
ers, when  the  very  popular  show 
went  off  the  air  several  months  ago, 
that  NBC  has  been  trying  to  find  a 
good  time  period  for  its  return  ever 
since.  And  now  it  looks  as  though 
Ted  will  be  a  regular  Sunday -after- 
noon feature — might  even  be  set  to 
start  by  the  time  you  read  this. 
Looking  to  the  future,  Mack  has  also 
arranged  with  NBC-TV  to  take  over 
Berle's  Tuesday -night  time  this 
summer,  when  Uncle  Miltie  goes  on 
vacation. 

CBS-TV  has  welcomed  a  new 
situation  comedy  to  their  schedule, 
a  very  amusing  one  at  that — Profes- 
sional Father,  seen  on  Saturday 
nights.  It's  a  half-hour  of  hilarious 


misadventures  about  a  child  psy- 
chologist, Dr.  Thomas  Wilson,  who 
just  can't  do  a  thing  with  his  own 
children.  Steve  Dunne  (whom  you'll 
remember  from  the  Bob  Crosby 
show  )  plays  Dr.  Wilson,  Barbara 
Billingsley  (no  relation  to  Sher- 
man) plays  his  wife,  and  their 
"problem"  children  are  portrayed  by 
Ted  Mark  and  Beverly  Washburn. 
The  Millionaire  is  another  recent 
addition  to  the  CBS  television  fam- 
ily, and  it  will  be  around  every 
Wednesday  night  for  a  while,  in  the 
half-hour  formerly  occupied  by 
Strike  It  Rich.  The  Millionaire  is  a 
comedy  about  an  eccentric  and  ex- 
ceedingly wealthy  man  who  decides 
to  give  away  his  money,  a  million 
dollars  at  a  time,  to  people  who  most 
need  it  and  least  expect  it,  and  the 
resulting  situations  are  most  amus- 


ing. No  stars  on  this  one,  just  a  nar- 
rator and  a  rotating  cast  of  actors. 
Two  new  situation  comedies,  tele- 
vision style,  have  been  worked  into 
NBC's  winter  schedule.  The  first  is 
The  Bob  Cummings  Show,  done  on 
film  in  Hollywood,  and  seen  Sunday 
nights.  Handsome  Robert  plays  a 
commercial  photographer  who  has  a 
keen  roving  eye  for  beauty,  which 
gets  him  involved  in  all  kinds  of 
things.  The  supporting  cast  includes 
Rosemary  De  Camp,  of  Dr.  Christian 
fame,  and  Leigh  Snowden.  Inciden- 
tally, the  sponsor  has  agreed  to  let 
Cummings  write  his  own  commer- 
cials for  the  show,  he  will  have  a 
free  hand  in  determining  the  adver- 
tising matter  on  the  program,  and 
he  will  appear  in  some  of  the  com- 
mercial segment.  Quite  a  contrast 
to  those  stars  who   refuse  to  have 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR  gets  the  royal  treatment  at  un- 
precedented series  of  Hollywood  parties  given  by 
CBS  and  NBC:  Below,  Mrs.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  wife 
of  one  of  our  publishers,  with  Charles  Farrell  .  .  . 
at  right,  with  Spring  Byington  and  publisher  Ernest 
O.  Machlin  ...  at  lower  right,  with  Joan  Caulfield. 


COAST  TO  COAST 


any  personal  contact  with  a  product 
in  front  of  a  camera. 

NBC -TV's  second  new  situation 
comedy,  also  filmed  in  movie  town, 
is  So  This  Is  Hollywood,  a  humor- 
ous show  about  the  adventures  and 
experiences  of  two  girls  trying  to 
make  good  in  the  glamour  village. 
This  is  a  Saturday-night  half-hour, 
starring  night-club  comedienne  Mitzi 
Green  and  songstress  Virginia  Gib- 
son. Male  comedy  will  be  provided 
by  Gordon  Jones,  the  old  football 
hero,  as  well  as  movie  actor  Jimmy 
Lydon. 

Passport  To  Danger,  a  half-hour 
filmed  dramatic  series,  is  now  being 
seen  around  the  country  on  local 
stations  of  the  ABC -TV  network. 
To  date,  the  show  is  seen  on  some 
thirty  stations,  with  more  being 
added    each    week      Passport    stars 


Cesar  Romero  in  the  role  of  a  diplo- 
matic courier,  and  is  produced  by 
Hal  Roach,  Jr.,  in  Hollywood.  The 
program  uses  mostly  foreign  locales 
and  backgrounds,  which  look  most 
authentic,  thanks  to  movieland's 
technical  know-how. 

NBC  has  added  The  Sheila  Gra- 
ham Show  to  its  morning  Monday- 
through-Friday  television  schedule. 
The  well-known  syndicated  news- 
paper movie  columnist  presents  clips 
from  feature  films,  news  and  chit- 
chat, plus  in-person  interviews  with 
name  stars  in  her  fifteen-minute 
segment. 

Another  addition  to  the  NBC  day- 
time TV  schedule  is  a  new  show 
called  Way  Of  The  World.  This  is  a 
series  of  dramatic  stories,  each  of 
which  will  be  completed  in  from  six 
to  fifteen  episodes,  with  emphasis  on 


emotional  situations  and  distinct 
characterizations.  Gloria  Louis  plays 
the  role  of  Linda  Porter,  as  hostess 
and  narrator,  and  the  cast  will  be 
a  changing  one  composed  of  top 
dramatic  radio  and  television  actors. 
Good  news  for  the  junior  division 
is  that  Tom  Corbett,  Space  Cadet  is 
now  a  permanent  part  of  NBC-TV"s 
two-hour  line-up  of  Saturday  morn- 
ing programs  especially  designed  for 
children.  The  show  was  on  a  few 
weeks  ago  on  a  sustaining  basis  but, 
now  that  Kraft  Foods  has  assumed 
sponsorship,  the  small  fry  can  be 
assured  of  following  their  space 
heroes  for  quite  a  while.  Frankie 
Thomas  plays  Tom  Corbett,  and  Al 
Markim  is  Astro. 

This  'n'  That: 

Lots  of    (Continued  on  page  26) 


Presenting 
Martha  Manners 

WKTVs  charming  hostess  finds  endless  enjoyment  in  everything  she  does 


Utica's  delightful  Martha  Manners  has  a  knack  for 
taking  inauspicious  beginnings  and  turning  them 
into  wonderfully  successful  aftermaths.  Some  two  years 
and  600  programs  ago,  Martha  debuted  as  producer  and 
hostess  of  May  I  Present,  seen  on  Station  WKTV,  week- 
days at  2:30  P.M.  At  that  time,  she  was  director  of 
drama  and  radio  at  Utica  College  of  Syracuse  Univer- 
sity, and  she  recalls  her  first  TV  show  with  horror. 
Demonstrating  the  right  way  to  wind  a  skein  of  yarn, 
Martha  moved  the  yarn  right  up  to  the  camera  lens 
with  a  bright  "See!"  What  viewers  at  home  "saw"  was 
a  big  blob  of  nothing.  .  .  .  But,  with  the  help  of  camera- 
man John  Dawson,  Martha  learned  quickly  and  viewers 
have  been  seeing  plenty  ever  since.  Volunteers  have 
donated  blood  on  the  program  to  show  how  easy  and 
painless  the  process  is;  the  same  thing  has  been  done 
with  chest  X-rays.  Her  WKTV  viewers  have  also  met 
more  than  1000  guests,  including  foreign  exchange  stu- 
dents, visiting  professors,  and  experts  on  playing  the 
banjo,  hooking  rugs,  and  "decking  the  halls"  at  holly 
time.  Twice  a  month,  a  panel  of  medical  specialists  dis- 
cusses various  illnesses  and,  once  a  month,  Mrs.  John 
Bilobrowka,  the  noted  librarian,  tells  tales  of  historic 


Mohawk  Valley  .  .  .  Last  year,  Martha  inaugurated 
the  first  and,  thus  far,  only  formal  non-credit  college 
course  in  Central  New  York  TV,  "Shakespeare  on  Tele- 
vision." The  15-week  course,  taught  by  Dr.  Norman 
Nathan  of  Utica  College,  was  taken  by  about  45,000 
viewers  and  is  being  repeated  this  year.  But  the  program 
Martha  herself  likes  best  of  all  is  her  Friday  show, 
devoted  to  readings  for  youngsters.  .  .  .  Vivacious,  dark- 
haired  Martha  made  a  conspicuous  stage  debut  when 
she  was  seven  and  played  a  dancing  butterfly.  As  she 
"fluttered"  in  from  the  wings,  Martha  fell  flat  on  her 
face.  Nothing  daunted,  she  continued  to  appear  in  school 
plays  and  then  spent  ten  years  on  the  professional  stage. 
.  .  .  Martha  lives  in  a  historic  old  mansion  that  was  used 
during  the  Civil  War  by  the  "underground  railroad." 
She  loves  to  knit,  garden  and  cook  and,  one  Christmas, 
baked  50  one-pound  fruit  cakes  as  gifts  for  WKTV 
staffers.  She  gets  a  "kick"  out  of  visiting  antique  shops 
and  collecting  china  plates,  and  she  cherishes  the  fact 
that  she  is  the  only  woman  member  of  the  New  York 
State  Fire  Fighters  Association.  But  this  unique  honor 
doesn't  surprise  her  devoted  fans.  They  know  Martha 
Manners  is  one  in  a  million. 


Only  female  member  of  the  N.  Y.  State  Fire  Fighters,  Martha  rides  with  Ray- 
mond Jecko,  Gerald  Darby,  Paul  Daniels,  Elmer  Walters  and  Alfred  Jastzab. 


Martha    and    director    Jack    Fredericks 
usually  have  the  unusual  on  their  minds. 


q^w  *Bi^  s^^-^fesjb  o^/ 


WONDERFUL  NEW  EAST-TO-DO  PIN-CURL  PERMANENT 


p  efcfct  -lot  ueaJ,  iMei  Ufo  s4|ta 
|pLSbAa^-jDn£ttt|  ?ddJc  I 


In  hairdos,  today's  look  is  the  sop  look,  and  Procter  &  Gamble's  wonderful 
new  pin-curl  home  permanent  is  especially  designed  to  give  it  to  you. 
A  PIN-IT  wave  is  soft  and  lovely  as  a  pin-curl  set,  never  tight  and  kinky. 
PIN-IT  is  so  wonderfully  different.  You  can  tell  the  minute  you  open  the 
bottle  . . .  there's  no  strong  ammonia  odor.  And  a  PIN-IT  wave  is  easier  to 
give.  You  can  do  it  all  by  yourself.  Just  put  your  hair  up  in  pin  curls  and 
apply  PIN-IT'S  Waving  Lotion.  Later,  rinse  and  let  dry.  With  self-neutral- 
izing PIN-IT,  you  get  waves  and  curls  where  you  want  them ...  no  resetting 
needed  ...  a  permanent  and  a  set  in  one  step.  For  a  wave  that  looks  soft 
and  lovely  from  the  very  first  day  and  lasts  weeks  and  weeks— try  PIN-IT! 


o 


fook  Soh.  tir  In  -fU  owuurfv  (i(Mr  IniP  hcirhano. 


e  i<m  P  *  a 


information  booth 


Contest  Winner 

Dear  Editor: 

Would  you  tell  us  something  about  Jan 
Clayton,  who  plays  Jeff's  mother  on  CBS- 
TV's  Lassie?  H.S.,  Intercourse,  Pa. 

When  Jan  Clayton  graduated  from  col- 
lege, she  won  a  contest  as  "Miss  South- 
west." The  prize  was  a  trip  to  New  York 
where  Jan  was  auditioned  for  the  stage. 
She  was  told  she  was  fine — for  the  movies. 
So  Jan  returned  to  New  Mexico  and  pro- 
ceeded to  win  a  contest  sponsored  by 
M-G-M.  The  prize  was  a  trip  to  Holly- 
wood and  a  screen  test.  This  time  Jan  was 
told  she  was  terrific — for  Broadway.  She 
stayed  in  Hollywood  anyway,  got  a  one- 
week,  night-club  singing  job  with  Maxie 
Rosenbloom,  was  spotted  and  promptly 
signed  for  the  famous  "Hopalong  Cassidy" 
movies.  During  the  war,  Jan  joined  a 
U.S.O.  unit,  then  returned  to  appear  at  the 
Hollywood  Canteen  and  to  play  opposite 
Wallace  Beery  in  "This  Man's  Navy." 
Then  she  took  off  again  for  a  one-woman 
touring  show  of  our  island  bases.  Next 
Jan  took  her  talents  to  Broadway  where 
she  starred  as  Julie  in  Rodgers  and  Ham- 
merstein's  "Carousel."  She  closed  in  that 
show  after  nine  months  and,  the  very  next 
day,  opened  as  the  lead  in  a  revival  of 
"Show  Boat." 

Jan  lives  in  Encino,  California,  with 
her  husband,  attorney  Robert  Lerner,  and 
their  four  children:  Sandra,  14;  Robbin, 
6;  Karen,  5;  and  Joe,  4. 

In  addition  to  Lassie,  Jan  has  appeared 
on  TV  as  a  Pantomime  Quiz  panel  mem- 
ber, as  a  guest  on  the  Danny  Thomas  and 
Ray  Bolger  shows,  as  Jenny  Lind  on  Hall- 
mark Theater,  and  re-created  her  original 
role  in  "Carousel"  in  last  year's  Rodgers 
and    Hammerstein   anniversary   show.    Re- 


cently* she  added  a  new  title  to  her  col- 
lection: Celebrity  Mother  of  the  Year 
for  1954. 

Versatility  Plus 

Dear  Editor: 

Please  use  your  Information  Booth  col- 
umn to  tell  us  something  about  Efrem 
Zimbalist,  Jr.,  who  has  the  male  lead  in 
NBC-TV's  serial,  Concerning  Miss  Mar- 
lowe. C.W .,  Reading,  Pa. 

Son  of  the  famed  violinist  Efrem  Zim- 
balist, and  the  equally  famous  opera 
singer,  Alma  Gluck — Efrem  Zimbalist,  Jr. 
has  followed  a  dramatic  and  musical 
career  that  adds  new  lustre  to  his  family's 
tradition.  Efrem,  who  studied  at  Yale  and 


10 


Jan  Clayton 


Efrem  Zimbalist,  Jr. 

at  New  York's  Neighborhood  Playhouse 
Dramatic  School,  got  his  first  job  as  a 
page  at  NBC.  Since  then,  he  has  played 
with  the  American  Repertory  Theater,  in 
summer  stock,  and  on  Broadway  opposite 
Spencer  Tracy  in  "Rugged  Path"  and 
opposite  Eva  LeGallienne  in  "Hedda  Gab- 
ler."  When  not  acting  on  stage,  in  movies 
and  TV,  Efrem  is  a  producer  and  director. 
He  made  Broadway  history  as  the  pro- 
ducer of  Gian-Carlo  Menotti's  operas, 
"The  Medium,"  "The  Telephone,"  and 
"The  Consul."  From  1952  to  1954,  he  was 
assistant  to  the  director  of  Philadelphia's 
Curtis  Institute  of  Music,  and  he  also 
studied  composition  and  wrote  music  dur- 
ing this  period. 

Efrem  married  during  the  war.  when  he 
was  an  infantry  lieutenant  for  five  years. 
Efrem's  wife  died  recently,  and  he  lives 
with  his  two  children:  Efrem  Zimbalist, 
III,  who  is  seven,  and  Nancy  Alma  Mun- 
roe,  who  is  ten.  Efrem  lists  tennis,  paint- 


Jean  Gillespie 


ing,  and  especially  writing  music,  as  his 
hobbies. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested  in  joining,  write 
to  the  address  given — not  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror. 

The  Jolly  Bennetts  (Tony  Bennett),  c/o 
Grace  Dingman,  R.D.  2,  Newark  Valley, 
N.Y. 

The  Charlie  Applewhite  Club,  c/o  Ir- 
win M.  Doutt,  II,  2893  West  Liberty  Ave., 
Pittsburgh  16,  Pa. 

Speaking  Of  Ancestors 

Dear  Editor: 

Please  tell  us  about  Jean  Gillespie,  who 
plays  the  young  divorcee,  Dorie  Blake,  on 
CBS-TV's  Portia  Faces  Life. 

J.Z.,  Chicago,  III. 

Boston-born  Jean  Gillespie  has  an  inter- 
esting geneology — including  a  Puritan  an- 
cestor who  was  tried  for  witchcraft  in 
Salem.  But  the  blonde,  petite  star  of  radio 
and  TV  is  proudest  of  her  ancestor,  Eva 
MacPherson,  who,  as  heiress  of  the  Mac- 
Pherson  clan,  married  the  chief  of  the 
Macintosh  clan.  The  love  match  united 
the  two  clans,  and  when  Jean  married 
actor  Bill  Thunhurst,  Jr.,  who  descends 
from  the  Macintosh  clan,  she  was  de- 
lighted to  think  that  they  had  been  des- 
tined for  each  other  since  'way  back  in 
the  Middle  Ages.  Today,  the  Thunhursts 
and  their  one-year-old  daughter,  Deborah, 
live  in  a  New  York  apartment  decorated 
with  tartans  and  Highland  figures,  their 
18-foot  sailboat  is  called  the  "Bonnie 
Jean,"  their  beagle  puppy  is  dubbed  "Bas- 
kerville" — but  Jean's  culinary  master- 
piece is  still  Boston  baked  beans! 

Jean's  stage  career  got  underway  when 
she  was  six  and   (Continued  on  page  13) 


THESE  ARE  JUST  A 
FEW  OF  THE  MORE 
THAN   100  LUXURY 
PREMIUMS— FREE 
FOR  RALEIGH  COUPONS! 


<J,NG-SIZE 


PLAIN  OR  TIPPED 


Hamilton  Beach 
Food  Mixer 


These  Premiums  are  NOT  for  sale. 
They  are  FREE  for  Raleigh  Coupons! 


GET  THIS  BEAUTIFUL  DESSERT  SERVER  FOR  ONLY  501 

ONEIDA  COMMUNITY   PAR-PLATE   SILVERWARE 

We  want  you  to  see  for  yourself  the  truly  high  quality  and  variety 
of  Raleigh  Premiums.  That's  why  we  are  offering  this  beautiful  Des- 
sert Server  .  .  .  regular  $1.50  value  .  .  .  for  only  50£.  See  its  beauty! 
Feel  its  quality!  Exclusive  "Linda" design  heavily  plated  with  pure  silver! 


SEND    TODAY  !   Offer  Expires  March  31,  1955 


BROWN  4  WILLIAMSON,  BOX   1739T 
Louisville,  Kentucky 

I  enclose  50C  .  .  .  for  which  please  send  my  Oneida 
Community  Par-Plate  Silverware  Dessert  Server  and 
FREE  Raleigh  Premium  Catalog. 


Address- 


City, 


.State- 


Copyright  1955 — The  Brown  &  Williamson  Tobacco  Corp.,  Louisville,  Ky 


■ 


,  •  ;f- 


<; 


v  T»    '  > 


JjHfT 


fotex    koT€* 


Kotex  now  comes  in  this  soft  grey  package 


Selected  by  thousands  of  women  as  first  choice  of 
many  designs  —  this  new  Kotex*  package  reflects 
the  quality  you've  learned  to  trust.  For  Kotex 
gives  you  the  complete  ahsorhency  you  need  .  .  . 
the  softness  you're  sure  of. 

Kotex  holds  its  shape,  keeps  its  comfortable  fit. 
Moreover,  this  is  the  only  leading  napkin  with 
flal  pressed  ends  to  prevent  revealing  outlines. 
So  look  for  the  new  Kotex  package  —  soft  grey, 
with  a  graceful  K,  symbol  of  highest  quality. 


teg^jSl 


Your  choice  of  three  sizes. 
Regular— blue  panel ;  Junior 
—  green  panel ;  Super  — 
rose  panel.  And  with  Kotex 
you'll  want  a  new  Kotex 
belt.  They  go  together  for 
perfect  comfort. 


MORE      WOMEN       CHOOSE       KOTEX      THAN       ALL       OTHER      SANITARY      NAPKINS 


T.  M.   REG.  U.  S.  PAT.  OFF. 


information  booth 


(Continued  from  page  10) 


began  dancing  in  children's  revues.  At  15, 
she  did  summer  stock,  then  studied  in 
New  York  for  two  years.  Jean  has  ap- 
peared in  two  Broadway  plays  and  is  due 
for  her  third  very  shortly.  Her  radio  cred- 
its include  21st  Precinct,  City  Hospital, 
My  True  Story,  Aunt  Jenny,  Gangbusters 
and  Cavalcade  Of  America.  On  TV,  she's 
been  seen  on  Kraft  Theater,  Studio  One, 
Robert  Montgomery  Presents,  and  now, 
Portia  Faces  Life. 

TV  Twins 

Dear  Editor: 

Could  you  tell  me  if  the  baby  on  CBS- 
TV's  I  Love  Lucy  is  really  Lucy  and  Desi's 
baby?  S.H.,   Lincoln,  III. 

No,  Desiderio  Alberto  Arnaz  IV  does 
not  play  Ricky  Ricardo,  Jr.  The  baby  on 
/  Love  Lucy  is  actually  twins — played  al- 
ternately by  Joseph  David  Mayer  and 
Michael  Leo  Mayer.  The  twins,  who  are 
only  a  few  months  older  than  Lucy's  and 
Desi's  own  son,  are  the  children  of  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Max  Mayer  of  Montrose,  Calif- 
ornia. Mr.  Mayer  is  a  clerk  in  a  chain 
grocery  store  in  Montrose  and  Mrs.  Mayer 
is  a  member  of  the  Mothers  of  Twins  Club 
in  Sherman  Oaks.  It  was  a  magazine  ar- 
ticle about  this  club  that  led  Desi  Arnaz 
and  his  staff  to  the  Mayer  twins. 

Triple  Play 

Dear  Editor: 

Could  you  please  give  me  some  informa- 
tion on  Steve  Dunne,  who  appears  on 
CBS-TV's   Bob   Crosby   Show? 

L.G.,  Omaha,  Neb. 

Born  Francis  Michael  Dunne  in  North- 
ampton, Massachusetts,  Steve  was  cast 
as  an  accountant  by  his  father,  though 
Steve  himself  sighed  for  a  role  in  journal- 
ism. Eventually,  however,  he  wound  up  in 
acting — because  a  radio  manager  thought 
his  voice  was  a  "natural."  Today  Steve  is 
well  known  to  TV  viewers  for  his  roles  on 
CBS-TV's  My  Favorite  Husband  and  the 
Bob  Crosby  Show,  and  this  season  has 
added  the  role  of  Dr.  Wilson  on  Profes- 
sional Father.  His  acting  career  began 
when  Steve  won  a  scholarship  to  study 
journalism  at  the  University  of  Alabama, 
earned  his  expenses  by  working  for  a 
noted  psychologist  at  Tuscaloosa  Institute 
and  then  met  up  with  that  radio  manager 
in  Tuscaloosa.  He  began  with  a  part-time 
radio  job,  then  did  a  New  York  stint  as 
an  extra  staff  announcer  and  went  on  to 
a  staff  job  at  Worcester's  WTAG,  in  Mass- 
achusetts. It  was  then  Steve  decided  to 
marry  his  childhood  sweetheart.  There 
was  money  for  a  wedding  but  not  a  honey- 
moon until,  the  day  before  the  marriage, 
Mrs.  Dunne-to-be  won  a  $1,000  door  prize 
at  a  charity  bazaar.  Steve  has  appeared 
in  fourteen  films,  among  them  "Lady 
Possessed"  and  "Above  and  Beyond."  The 
Dunnes  live  in  Brentwood,  California,  with 


Murial  Williams 

their  two  children,  Steve,  10,  and  Chris- 
tina, 7.  For  hobbies,  Daddy  Steve  picks 
tennis  and  swimming. 

Admiral's  Lady 

Dear  Editor: 

Can  you  tell  us  something  about  the  girl 
who  appears  as  announcer  on  Bishop 
Sheen's  Life  Is  Worth  Living  program? 

A.L.,  Butte,  Mont. 

Murial  Hart  Williams  is  the  stunning 
blonde  who  appears  as  "leading  lady"  in 
all  of  the  Admiral  commercials,  notably 
on  Bishop  Sheen's  program.  She  has  also 
been  seen  on  Studio  One,  Robert  Mont- 
gomery Presents  and  Philco  Theater. 
Murial  also  worked  in  radio  at  one  time, 
broadcasting  from  Boston  on  the  Ted 
Steele  program.  .  .  .  While  she  is  rapidly 
winning  popularity  on  TV,  the  bulk  of 
Murial's  career,  up  to  now,  has  been  on 
the  stage.  She's  appeared  in  thirty-five 
Broadway  and  touring  productions  and 
holds  the  all-time  record  for  the  greatest 
number  of  summer  stock  roles  ever  played 
by  a  woman  at  the  noted  Cape  Playhouse 
in  Dennis,  Massachusetts.  It  was  at  Den- 
nis that  Murial  met  her  husband,  the  late 
Francis  Hart,  then  president  of  the  Play- 
house. Friends  made  at  the  Playhouse  in- 
cluded such  world-renowned  stars  as  the 
late,  beloved  Gertrude  Lawrence,  who 
was  married  in  the  Hart  home  to  Richard 
Aldrich,  producer.  Murial  will  star  in  a 
Richard  Aldrich  Broadway  production  this 
spring.  .  .  .  Murial  lives  in  a  Greenwich 
Village  apartment  with  her  dog  John,  "a 
personality  himself,"  she  says. 

Nicknames 

Dear  Editor: 

Can  you  tell  us  something  about  Buff 
Cobb,  who  appears  as  a  panelist  on  ABC- 
TV's  Masquerade  Party? 

J.J.,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa 


\ 


Buff  Cobb 


Pert  Buff  Cobb — alias  Patrizia  Cobb 
Chapman  Wallace — seems  to  inspire  nick- 
names. Her  writer-mother,  Elizabeth  Cobb, 
dubbed  her  "Rabbit  Head"  and  "Miss 
Mouse."  Her  father,  singer  Frank  Chap- 
man, calls  her  both  "Shrimp"  and 
"Shrimpo."  Husband  Mike  Wallace  came 
up  with  "Duck  Face"  and  "Pussycat." 
But  the  name  that  stuck  was  given  her  by 
her  writer-grandfather,  the  late  Irvin  S. 
Cobb.  Buff's  mother  had  been  raised  by  a 
maid  who,  unable  to  pronounce  the  name 
Elizabeth,  called  her  "Lizzybuff."  Irvin 
Cobb  decided  to  call  his  daughter  "Big 
Buff"  and  his  granddaughter  "Little  Buff." 

Buff  was  born  in  Florence,  Italy,  where 
her  father  was  studying  voice.  She  was 
three  when  the  family  returned  to  the 
United  States.  Buff  grew  up  in  New  York 
and  California.  After  studying  drama, 
speech  and  ballet,  she  played  a  season 
with  the  Laguna  Beach  Playhouse  and 
then  won  a  role  as  one  of  Rex  Harrison's 
wives  in  the  movie  version  of  "Anna  and 
the  King  of  Siam."  Several  stage  roles 
followed,  then  Buff  joined  the  company  of 
"Private  Lives"  with  Tallulah  Bankhead. 
When  the  show  played  Chicago,  she  met 
Mike  Wallace  on  the  radio  program  Mel- 
ody Lane.  Buff  remained  in  the  Windy 
City  to  do  a  number  of  radio  and  TV 
shows  and,  two  years  later,  in  1949,  she 
and  Mike  were  married.  They're  heard 
today  on  CBS  Radio's  Mike  And  Buff's 
Mailbag. 


FOR    YOUR    INFORMATION— If 

there's  something  you  want  to  know  about 
radio  and  television,  write  to  Information 
Booth,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd 
St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if 
we  can,  provided  your  question  is  of  gen- 
eral interest.  Anstvers  ivill  appear  in  this    j 
column — but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to    v 
your  letter,  and  specify  whether  your  ques-    r 
tion  concerns  radio  or  TV. 


13 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


Greetings,  nice  people.  It's  me  again, 
as  usual,  with  lots  of  tunes  on  my 
typewriter,  so  if  the  assemblage  is 
ready,  let  us  take  "note"  of  what's  what  in 
the  wax  department. 

And  as  a  starter,  here's  a  real  special  for 
you:  A  great  album  of  "There's  No  Busi- 
ness Like  Show  Business."  It's  from  the 
smash  musical  movie  of  the  same  name, 
of  course,  with  all  the  Irving  Berlin  songs 
from  the  picture,  done  up  vocally  by  the 
all-star  cast — Ethel  Merman,  Dan  Dailey, 
Donald  O'Connor,  Mitzi  Gaynor  and  John- 
nie Ray.  The  only  one  missing  is  Marilyn 
Monroe,  which  I  admit  is  quite  a  loss,  but 
Dolores  Gray  sings  MM's  numbers  in  ex- 
cellent voice.  Included  in  the  album  are 
Berlin's  new  songs,  written  especially  for 
the  picture,  "Lazy,"  "If  You  Believe,"  plus 
several  of  his  former  hits,  "Heat  Wave," 
"Simple  Melody,"  "Alexander's  Ragtime 
Band,"  and  others.  It's  been  pressed  in 
three  speeds,  by  the  way.  (Decca) 

Columbia's  young  vocal  hopeful,  Jill 
Corey,  has  come  up  with  her  best  record 
so  far — at  least  in  my  opinion — "Edward," 
and  "I'm  Not  At  All  in  Love,"  with  Jimmy 
Carroll's  orchestra.  "Edward"  is  a  cute 
novelty,  written  by  Bob  Merrill,  of  "Doggie 
in  the  Window"  fame,  and  will  probably 
be  the  big  side.  The  coupling  is  a  pretty 
ballad  from  "Pajama  Game." 

Lots  of  good  piano  albums  this  month, 
by  a  variety  of  keyboard  artists.  M-G-M 
offers  "Dorothy  Donegan  at  the  Piano," 
"Van  Smith  at  the  Piano,"  "The  Jose  Melis 
Trio,"  with  Jose  on  the  keys,  and  a  Jack 
Fina  set  called  "Love  in  Bloom."  Not  a 
new  tune  in  the  bunch,  incidentally,  but 
all  wonderful  old  standards. 

"Tonal  Expressions"  is  the  name  of  a  fine 
piano    set    by    Don    Shirley,    on    the    Ca- 


14 


Rosemary  Clooney  and  husband  Jose 
Ferrer  have  waxed  another  up-and- 
coming    hit   on   the   Columbia    label. 


dence  label,  and  he,  too,  has  chosen  old 
tunes.  This  boy  is  one  of  the  most  talented 
members  of  the  eighty-eight  fraternity 
around  these  days.  He's  also  an  artist  of 
note,  and  did  his  own  cover  design  on  this 
album. 

The  Riverside  label,  known  for  its  re- 
cording of  old-time  jazz,  is  featuring  a 
young  pianist,  Randy  Weston,  who  gives 
some  oldies  a  new-as-tomorrow  treat- 
ment. His  long-playing  platter,  "Randy 
Weston  Plays  Cole  Porter  in  a  Modern 
Mood,"  features  Sam  Gill  on  bass  and  in- 
cludes favorites  like  "I've  Got  You  under 
My  Skin,"  "In  the  Still  of  the  Night," 
"What  Is  This  Thing  Called  Love,"  and 
"Night  and  Day." 

Before  closing  the  piano  corner,  we  have, 
last  but  not  least,  Miss  Barbara  Carroll,  a 
pretty  lass  who  has  a  pretty  way  with  the 
keys.  Her  album  is  called  "Lullabies  in 
Rhythm,"  and  it,  too,  includes  old  stand- 
ards, plus  a  couple  of  her  own  composi- 
tions. One  is  called  "Garrow's  Way,"  which 
she  wrote  for  Dave  Garroway.   (Victor) 

Les  Paul  and  Mary  Ford  have  done  an 
interesting  new  record  called  "Song  in 
Blue,"  with  Les  playing  some  rapid-tempo 
guitar  to  Mary's  slow  vocal.  The  backing  is 
"Someday  Sweetheart,"  done  up  as  an  in- 
strumental in  the  Pauls'  individual  guitar 
style.  (Capitol) 

Another  man  -  and  -  wife  -  in  -  real  -  life, 
Rosemary  Clooney  and  Jose  Ferrer,  are 
turning  into  a  regular  record  team.  This 
time  they've  done  "Mr.  and  Mrs.,"  the  Sig- 
mund  Romberg  selection  from  the  movie, 
"Deep  in  My  Heart,"  which  they  also  did 
in  the  film.  And  they've  backed  it  up  with 
a  cute  waltz,  "Marry  the  Man."  The  Fer- 
rers get  good  musical  assistance  from  Paul 
Weston's  orchestra  and  the  Norman  Luboff 
Choir.   (Columbia) 

Victor  has  tied  up  the  voices  of  Dinah 
Shore  and  Tony  Martin  into  a  pretty  pack- 
age called  "The  Melody  of  Love."  You'll 
recognize  this  ballad  as  an  old  familiar 
piano  piece,  which  has  been  adapted  into 
a  modern  ballad.  On  the  reverse,  Dinah 
and  Tony  duet  on  the  old  cutie,  "You're 
Getting  to  Be  a  Habit  with  Me." 

Frank  Sinatra  has  also  recorded  "Mel- 
ody of  Love,"  which  he  sings  in  excellent 
voice.  (Hasn't  he  been  sounding  great 
lately?)  On  the  other  side,  Frank  does  a 
swing  vocal  on  the  oldie,  "I'm  Gonna  Live 
Till  I  Die."  Accompaniment  by  Ray  An- 
thony and  his  orchestra.    (Capitol) 

Steve  Lawrence,  who  has  been  bariton- 
ing  on  our  Tonight  show  for  quite  a  spell 
now,  has  done  his  second  solo  record  for 
Coral,  and  he  comes  through  fine  with  two 
pretty  new  ballads,  "Kiss  Me  Now,"  and 
"How  Do  I  Break  away  from  You?"  with 
Dick  Jacobs'  orchestra. 

And  another  lad  from  our  midnight  TV 
clambake,  Andy  Williams,  also  of  the  bari- 
tone department,  has  waxed  himself  a 
couple  of  new  ballads,  too — "Now  I  Know," 
and  "Here  Comes  that  Dream  Again,"  with 


Van    Alexander's    orchestra.    ("X"    label) 

The  Top  Hatters,  up-and-coming  vocal- 
instrumental  group,  have  a  new  novelty 
disc  that  could  very  well  be  a  juke-box 
smash.  It's  a  little  thing  called  "Leva 
My  Gal  Alone,"  with  an  odd  musical  ac- 
companiment gimmick,  a  bombardino 
(that's  an  Italian  street  horn,  son)  played 
by  Signor  Archie  Bleyer.  The  back  side  is 
a  jumpy  ditty,  "Go,  Baby,  Go."   (Cadence) 

If  jazz  be  your  choice,  give  a  listen  to 
an  album  called  "East  Coast— West  Coast," 
featuring  jazz  stars  from  both  sides  of  the 
country.  Al  Cohn  did  the  arranging  and 
conducting  for  the  East  contingent,  and 
Shorty  Rogers  dittoed  for  the  West.  The 
tunes,  each  a  jazz  classic,  run  seven  min- 
utes, allowing  for  extended  arrangements 
and  lengthy  solos.   (Victor) 

Jack  Teagarden,  one  of  the  all-time  tal- 
ents in  the  popular  music  world,  has  a  new 
album  on  the  Period  label  called  "Meet  Me 
Where  They  Play  the  Blues."  All  the  tunes 
are  blues,  of  course,  such  as  "Davenport 
Blues,"  "Music  to  Love  By,"  "Misery  and 
the  Blues,"  and  others.  Jack  sings  a  couple 
of  them,  including  the  title  side,  "Meet 
Me,"  etc.  I  must  confess  I  wrote  the  mel- 
ody for  this  one,  to  Sammy  Gallup's  lyrics, 
and  if  it's  a  hit  we  won't  be  at  all  "blue." 

Sammy  Davis,  Jr.,  has  a  new  release, 
his  first  since  his  recent  tragic  automobile 
accident,  in  which  he  lost  an  eye.  Sammy 
courageously  told  his  doctors,  "I  still  have 
my  voice  and  my  legs,  so  I'll  get  along." 
And  we're  all  pulling  for  him  to  do  that, 
and  more.  Sammy's  new  record  should 
buoy  up  his  spirits  considerably,  for  it's  a 
good  one — he  sings  two  favorites,  "Love, 
Your  Magic  Spell  Is  Everywhere,"  and 
"The  Birth  of  the  Blues,"  with  Morty  Ste- 
vens'  orchestra.    (Decca) 

All  you  Chordette  fans,  gather  'round. 
This  one  is  for  you — an  album  called  "Close 
Harmony,"  ten  songs  done  strictly  barber- 
shop style,  highlighted  by  such  well-known 
standards  as  "A  Good  Man  Is  Hard  to 
Find,"  "Sweet  and  Low"  and  "Oh,  How  I 
Miss  You  Tonight."  And  the  Edwin  H. 
Morris  Company  has  published  a  sheet 
music  folio,  sold  separately  from  the  al- 
bum, with  all  the  Chordettes'  vocal  ar- 
rangements. So,  if  you've  been  a-hankerin' 
to  sing  barber-shop  stuff  with  your  pals, 
here's  your  chance.  (Cadence) 

One  of  the  great  voices  of  our  time  be- 
longs to  Mahalia  Jackson,  the  gospel  singer, 
and  Columbia  Records  has  signed  her  to  a 
contract.  Miss  Jackson  has  recorded  four 
spirituals  with  the  Falls-Jones  Ensemble, 
who  appear  with  her  on  her  CBS  Radio 
program.  On  one  record  she  sings  "A  Rusty 
Old  Halo"  and  "The  Treasures  of  Love," 
and  on  the  other  she  offers  "Walk  All 
Over  God's  Heaven"  and  "Jesus  Met  the 
Woman  at  the  Well." 

Well,  just  like  they  say  on  quiz  shows, 
"Time  is  up,"  so  I'll  pack  my  platters  and 
be  on  my  way.  But  hope  you'll  be  back 
for  the  meeting  next  month. 


9500  Skin  Tests  Prove 


Palmolive  Soap  Is  Mildest! 
Better  for  Complexion  Care ! 

BETTER  THAN  ANY  LEADING  TOILET  SOAP... 
FLOATING  SOAP...  EVEN  COLD  CREAM 


Palmolive's  gentle  complexion  care 
cleans  thoroughly  without  irritation  ! 


There's  nothing  women  envy  more  ...  or  men  admire  so  much 
...  as  that  lovely  "schoolgirl  complexion  look."  And  you  too,  can 
have  a  younger  looking,  far  lovelier  complexion  just  by  changing  to 
proper  care  with  gentle  Palmolive.  It  does  so  much  to  help  you 
have  a  cleaner,  fresher  skin  —  leaves  it  so  wonderfully  soft ! 


Skin  specialists  agree  that  a  really  mild  soap  means  less  irrita- 
tion, more  gentle  cleansing.  Milder  Palmolive  brings  you  these 
benefits — so  important  for  a  softer,  smoother,  brighter  skin.  You'll 
find  no  other  leading  soap  gets  skin  thoroughly  clean  as  gently  as 
Palmolive  Soap.  Yes,  Palmolive  is  mildest  of  them  all! 


Skin  Specialists  Say:  "MILDER  CLEANSING  IS  BETTER  FOR  YOUR  COMPLEXION!" 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 
Milder  than  Any  Other  Leading 
Beauty  Soap  or  Castile  Soap! 


\z 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 

Milder  than  Leading  White 

Floating  Soaps  or  Deodorant  Soaps! 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 

Even  Milder  than  America's  Leading 

Cold  Creams! 


PALMOLIVE  SOAP  HELPS  YOU  GUARD  THAT  SCHOOLGIRL  COMPLEXION  LOOK! 


15 


New  Designs  for  Living 


16 


654 — Baby  will  make  fast  friends  with 
these  farm  and  circus  pets.  Use  scraps  for 
this  zoo  parade  quilt!  Embroidery  trans- 
fers, applique  pieces  for  quilt,  32"x44".  25^. 

7301 — Just  two  main  pattern  parts  to  this 
gay,  cool  maternity  top.  Make  two — trim 
one  with  embroidery,  one  with  squaw- 
style  rickrack.  Maternity  Misses'  Sizes  12- 
20.  Tissue  pattern;  transfer.  State  size.  25tf. 

7191 — Colorful  rickrack  and  a  few  simple 
crochet  stitches  make  the  dress,  earrings 
of  this  saucy  toaster-cover  doll.  Pattern 
pieces,  transfers,  directions.  Use  No.  30 
cotton,   rickrack.   25^. 


571 — Just  a  stroke  of  your  iron — and 
fruits  in  red  and  green  combination  are 
transferred  to  linens.  No  embroidery. 
Transfer  of  8  washable  designs,  3%" 
x  4»/2  to  4"  x  4»/2".    25tf. 

7213 — Match  a  new  handbag  to  a 
dress.  This  tote-bag  is  a  jiffy  style. 
Pop  everything  into  it.  Directions  for 
two  sizes,  larger  10"  x  12".    25tf. 

7220 — Easy  pinafore  or  sundress  she'll 
wear  for  play  or  parties.  Frost  it  with 
embroidery,  eyelet.  Bow  cinches  waist. 
Child's  Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8,  10.  Pattern 
pieces,  transfer.  State  size.  25tf. 

708  -It's  a  19-inch  square — perfect  for 
doily  or  mat.  Star-shaped  design  set 
ofT  liy  h|iid<T  webs.  Square,  19  inches 
in  No.  30  cotton.  Join  4  for  bridge 
cloth;   9   for   lunch   cloth.    25tf. 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)   for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service, 
P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Sta.,  N.  Y.  11,  N.  Y.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing. 


NAME  .. 


AODHI  SS. 


CITY STATE._ 

Send  an  additional  twenty  cents  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


You  feel  so  very  sure  of  yourself . . .  after  a  p(//Jtfef^4fN  Shampoo! 


You're  confident  you  look  your  loveli- 
est ..  .  your  hair  soft  as  a  cloud  .  .  . 
sunshine  bright  .  .  .  every  shimmering 
strand  in  place.  That's  the  glorious  feel- 


ing you  have  after  using  White  Rain, 
the  lotion  shampoo  that  gives  you  re- 
sults like  softest  rainwater.  Try  it  and 
see  how  wonderful  you  feel. 


Use  New  /(/^^f/f/  Shu 


mpoo  tonight  and  tomorrow  your  hair  will  be  sunshine  bright! 


FABULOUS  LOTION  SHAMPOO   BY  TON1 


17 


THE    MANN     IN 


After  a   busy  day,  Claire  relaxes — the  correct  way:  Legs  higher  than  the  rest  of  the  body,  to  relieve  tension. 


BY   ELLEN   TAUSSIG 


18 


Although  there  are  some  30,000,000  overweight  people 
in  this  country,  it's  quite  certain  that  hardly  one  of 
them  likes  the  thought— let  alone  the  process — of  dieting. 
Nor  do  non-dieters  enjoy  hearing  the  problems  of  those 
struggling  to  lose  weight.  However,  this  unhappy  state 
of  affairs  need  not — and  does  not — exist,  if  one  follows  the 
advice  of  beauty  and  health  expert  Claire  Mann.  Star  and 
producer  of  The  Claire  Mann  Show,  seen  daily  at  1  P.M. 
over  Station  WABD,  New  York — and  originator  of  Over- 
weight Anonymous,  Claire  sponsors  a  common-sense  ap- 
proach to  dieting  which  has  known  untold  success. 

The  unusual  and  welcome  aspects  of  The  Claire  Mann 
Show  are  its  straightforwardness,  its  respect  for  and 
understanding  of  the  basic  problems — great  or  small — of 
people  striving  for  self-improvement,  and  its  emphasis  on 
complete,  but  unpretentious,  glamour.  Claire  is  always 
frank  and  honest  with  her  viewers,  for  she  knows,  and  is 
pleased,  that  women  can't  be  fooled  about  themselves — 
"at  least  not  for  very  long."  And,  because  of  her  extensive 
background  in  group  therapy,  she  knows  the  necessary 
ingredients  for  encouraging  and  maintaining  a  person's 
desire  for  self-improvement.   As  for  glamour,  Claire  con- 


tends, "You  don't  have  to  look  like  a  Hollywood  starlet  to 
have  glamour.  Glamour  owes  as  much  to  an  inner  glow  of 
health  as  to  cosmetics."  That's  why  everyone  who  appears 
on  her  show — celebrity  or  housewife — must  have  some- 
thing besides  beauty  to  offer. 

Another  of  Claire's  helpful  and  highly  successful  ven- 
tures is  Overweight  Anonymous.  This  club  had  its  begin- 
nings three  years  ago  when  Claire  decided  to  experiment 
with  three  overweight  women.  Giving  each  a  not-too-rigid 
diet,  she  added  three  vital  elements — pride,  understanding 
and  comfort.  And  she  encouraged  them  to  get  together  to 
discuss  and  follow  each  other's  progress.  The  experiment 
was  so  successful,  and  the  requests  from  others  interested 
in  doing  the  same  was  so  great,  a  regular  club  was  formed 
which  today  numbers  over  50,000  members  throughout 
the  country.  The  club  is  divided  into  groups  of  five  to  ten 
members,  each  with  a  supervisor  who  encourages  members 
and  keeps  a  close  check  on  their  progress.  Members  dis- 
cuss their  common  problems,  their  "delinquencies,"  and 
their  improvements.  Of  prime  consideration  always  is 
each  member's  mental  outlook  .  .  .  their  spirits  must  be 
kept  up,  so  their  weight  will  be  kept  down. 


VOUR   LIFE 

Through  the  magic  of  television  and 

the  success  of  "Overweight  Anonymous," 

Claire  Mann  shows  thousands  the  way 

to  a  healthier,  happier  life 


Slimnastics — Claire's  own  brand  of  exercises  which 
she  practices  herself — are  easy  and  effective.  Also, 
they  need  to  be  done  only  about  one  minute  a  day. 


In  her  home-office,  Claire  and  her  assistant,  Eve  Mayer, 
answer  the  thousands  of  letters  Claire  receives  weekly. 
On    her   show,   she   interviews   actor   Jacques    Bergerac. 


Claire  Mann's  tremendous  success  in  guiding  others  is 
only  part  of  her  story — for  there  is  Claire's  own  personal 
achievement,  her  own  triumph  in  overcoming  tragedy. 
Previously,  Claire  had  been  a  successful  concert  pianist 
and  a  ballet  dancer  with  the  Metropolitan  Opera  Ballet. 
One  night,  while  on  tour  in  Europe  with  the  ballet,  she  was 
in  an  automobile  crash.  The  result:  A  broken  back,  com- 
plete paralysis,  and  the  opinion  of  doctors  that  she  would 
never  dance,  perhaps  never  walk,  again.  But  the  doctors 
had  not  taken  into  account  Claire's  great  determination. 
Bit  by  bit,  she  began  to  restimulate  her  muscles  and  regain 
control  of  them.  Within  six  months,  she  was  well  on  her 
way  to  complete  recovery.  Eventually,  she  was  able  to 
walk,  run — even  dance — again,  but  by  then  her  experience 
had  directed  her  interests  to  a  new  field.  After  studying 
psychology  and  anatomy  in  Vienna,  she  returned  to  New 
York  to  open  her  own  studio  for  the  purpose  of  helping 
women  rehabilitate  themselves — physically,  mentally  and 
emotionally.  Since  that  time,  and  the  start  of  her  tele- 
vision show,  she  has  advised  millions  of  women,  from 
stage,  screen  and  TV  stars  to  housewives  and  teenagers. 

So  it  is  today  that  Claire's  life  is  devoted  to  inspiring  and 


guiding  people  to  a  healthier,  happier  way  of  life.  She 
finds  much  gratification  in  seeing  others  so  helped — which, 
in  itself,  is  a  wonderful  stimulation  for  her  to  be  busy  all 
the  time.  Claire  maintains  her  office  in  her  Park  Avenue 
apartment.  There  she  interviews  prospective  guests  for 
her  show,  keeps  a  file  on  every  member  of  Overweight 
Anonymous,  and  reads  and  answers  the  thousands  of 
letters  she  receives  each  week.  There,  too,  she  practices 
her  own  brand  of  exercises — Slimnastics.  The  wife  of  Dr. 
Stephen  Nordlict,  a  noted  psychiatrist,  Claire  feels  herself 
fortunate  to  have  an  authority  on  psychology  right  on  hand. 
Claire  has  also  devoted  considerable  time  to  writing. 
She  publishes  frequent  articles  and  is  the  author  of  five 
books.  But  it  is  The  Claire  Mann  Show  and  Overweight 
Anonymous  which  receive  most  of  her  expert  attention. 
And  it  is  because  of  these  tremendous  undertakings  that 
millions  owe  their  admiration  and  gratitude  to  her.  With- 
out a  doubt,  Claire  Mann  deserves  every  accolade  be- 
stowed upon  her  for,  in  giving  so  willingly  of  her  extensive 
experience  and  knowledge,  her  personal  magnetism  and 
sincere  dedication  to  her  principles,  she  is  achieving  un- 
paralleled success  in  helping  others  to  help  themselves. 


19 


20 


Only  Bobbi  is  specially  designed  to  give  the  softly  feminine  wave 
needed  for  this  new  "Soft  Talk"  hairdo.  No  nightly  settings  necessary. 


NO    TIGHT,  FUSSY  CURLS   HERE! 

These  hairdos  were  made  with  Bobbi— 

the  special  pin-curl  permanent  for 

softly  feminine  hairstyles 

Now  your  hair  can  be  as  soft  and  natural-looking  as  the  hairdos 
shown  here.  Just  give  yourself  a  Bobbi — the  easy  pin-curl  permanent 
specially  designed  for  today's  newest  softly  feminine  hairstyles. 

A  Bobbi  looks  soft  and  natural  from  the  very  first  day.  Curls  and 
waves  are  exactly  where  you  want  them — wonderfully  carefree 
for  weeks.  Pin-curl  your  hair  just  once.  Apply  Bobbi's  special 
lotion.  A  little  later  rinse  with  water.  Let  dry,  brush  out.  Right 
away  your  hair  has  the  beauty,  the  body  of  naturally  wavy  hair. 

More  women  have  had  a  Bobbi  than  any  other  pin-curl  perma- 
nent. If  you  can  make  a  simple  pin -curl,  you'll  love  a  Bobbi. 


Soft,  natural  right  from  the  start. .  .that's  the  "Miss 
Manhattan"  hairstyle  after  an  easy  Bobbi.  A  Bobbi 
Pin -Curl   Permanent  is  so  easy,  no  help  is  needed. 


With  Bobbi  you  get  waves  exactly  where  you  want 
them,  the  way  you  want  them.  Notice  the  easy,  gen- 
tle look  of  this  bewitching  new  "La  Femme"  hairdo. 


Bobbi's  soft  curl's  make  a  natural,  informal  wave  like 
this  possible.  A  Bobbi  gives  you  the  kind  of  carefree 
curls  needed  for  this  gay  "Satin  Sweep"  hairdo. 


Just  pin-curls  and  Bobbi.  No  separate  ncutrali/er,  no  curlers,  no  resetting.  Every- 
thing you  need  —  New  Creme  Oil  Lotion,  special  bobby  pins.  $1.50  plus  tax. 


Bobbi  is  made  especially  to  give  young,  free  and  easy 
hairstyles  like  this  "Honeycomb"  hairdo.  And  the 
curl  is  there  to  stay  —  m  all  kinds  of  weather. 


BEAT  THE  CLOCK'S 

Five-Star  Final 

CONTEST  WINNERS 


Announcing  the  lucky  winners  of  Beat 
The  Clock's  exciting  big  contest  for 
December.   .   .   . 

FIRST  PRIZE 
Sylvania  Chairside  Theater 

Mrs.  William  F.  Krupp 
4049  West  50th  Street 
Cleveland  9,  Ohio 

FOUR  RUNNERS-UP 
Sylvania  radio  clock 

Grace  M.  Fischer,   M.D. 
Chestnut  Hill  Hospital 
Philadelphia   18,  Pennsylvania 

Mrs.  Margaret  Lawton 
1 14  Western  Parkway 
Schenectady  4,  New  York 

Thora  Eigenmann 

Box  2545 

San  Diego  12,  California 

C.  S.  Gilbert 

3  Wellsboro  Street 

Mansfield,  Pennsylvania 

These  are  the  final  winners  of  the  Beat 
The  Clock  Contest. 


Beat  The  Clock,  emceed  by  Bud  Collyer,  is 
seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  7:30  P.M.  EST,  as 
sponsored  by  Sylvania  Electric  Products  Inc. 


Winners  were  chosen  on  the  basis  of 
accuracy  in  rearranging  the  pictures  of 
three  radio  and  TV  stars,  and  originality 
of  last  line  for  a  limerick.  Stars  in 
December's  picture  puzzle  were:  Ralph 
Edwards,  Arthur  Godfrey,   Perry  Como. 


RALPH 
EDWARDS 


ARTHUR 
GODFREY 


PERRY 
COMO 


Miracle  latex  slims  and  trims 
without  a  seam,  stitch  or  bone/ 
Hidden  "finger"  panels  firm 
and  support  like  magic/ 
Washes,  dries  in  a  hurry,  too. 


Kitten-soft  fabric 
inside— and  a  new 
non-roll  top— for 
extra  comfort/ 


21 


PERIODIC  PAIN 

Don't  let  the  calendar  make  a 
slave  of  you,  Betty!  Just  take 
a  Midol  tablet  with  a  glass  of 
water . . .  that's  all.  Midol  brings 
faster  relief  from  menstrual  pain 
-it  relieves  cramps,  eases  head- 
ache and  chases  the  "blues." 


"WHAT  WOMEN  WANT  TO  KNOW" 

a  24 -page  book  explaining  menstruation 
is  yours,  FREE.  Write  Dep't  B-35,  Box  280, 
New  York  18,  N.  Y.  (Sent  in  plain  wrapper). 


T 
¥ 

R 

22 


Daytime 
Diary 


All  programs  are  heard  Monday  through  Friday;  consult  local 
papers  for  time  and  station 


AUNT  JENNY  No  small  town  is  com- 
plete without  its  quota  of  unpretentious, 
all-around  doctors,  and  Littleton's  Dr.  Joe 
is  a  sterling  example  of  the  breed.  His  en- 
counter with  a  cynical  younger  doctor, 
and  what  each  of  them  learned  from  it, 
was  the  basis  for  one  of  Aunt  Jenny's 
recent  dramatizations  of  the  sometimes 
exciting,  sometimes  surprising,  always  true- 
to-life  stories  about  her  Littleton  neigh- 
bors. CBS  Radio. 

BACKSTAGE  WIFE  Goaded  beyond 
endurance  by  Larry's  attentions  to  Elise 
Shephard,  his  wife  Mary  finally  accepts 
Malcolm  Devereux's  offer  to  make  her  a 
Hollywood  star,  hoping  to  find  self-respect 
and  happiness  in  her  own  work  now  that 
Larry  appears  to  have  rejected  her.  Will 
Larry's  immediate  conclusion  that  she  is 
in  love  with  Malcolm  lead  to  the  end  of 
what  was  once  a  happy  marriage?  Has 
Mary  made  the  most  serious  mistake  of 
her  life  in  responding  to  Malcolm's  in- 
terest? NBC  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  DAY  Reverend  Rich- 
ard Dennis's  conviction  that  Bert  Ralston 
meant  trouble  to  New  Hope  is  confirmed 
when  Ralston's  murder  sets  off  a  grim 
revelation  of  his  real  reasons  for  having 
been  in  town.  But  for  Sandra  Talbot  and 
young  Grayling  Dennis,  there  can  be  no 
shadows  and  no  doubts  at  the  moment,  for 
the  climax  of  their  troubled,  stormy  ro- 
mance now  seems  to  lead  to  a  secure, 
magically  happy  future  together.  CBS-TV 
and  CBS  Radio. 

CONCERNING      MISS      MARLOWE 

Not  since  her  brief,  youthful  marriage  has 
Maggie  Marlowe  been  so  close  to  serious 
involvement  with  a  man,  as  Jim  Gavin's 
ardent,  confident  courtship  sweeps  aside 
her  doubts.  But  other,  more  fundamental 
difficulties  may  arise  out  of  the  past  that 
Jim  would  like  to  think  dead — difficulties 
that  could  unite  with  Maggie's  uncertainty 
about  her  troubled  and  troublesome  daugh- 
ter to  darken  the  days  aliead.  NBC-TV. 

I '■lit ST  LOVE  In  a  way,  Laurie  under- 
stands why  Zach  has  allowed  the  daring, 
unusual  Petey  to  get  so  mixed  up  in  his 
life,  for  they  share  a  compelling  love  for 
flying  and  they  are  both  bound,  in  different 
ways,   to   the    ruthless    Wally    Grant.   But 


Petey  is  a  fascinating  woman,  and  Laurie 
is  a  very  young  wife.  How  far  can  under- 
standing go,  when  Zach  seems  bent  on 
hurting  her  because  others  have  hurt 
him?  NBC-TV. 

THE   GOLDEN    WINDOWS  Love  and 

unhappiness  make  Julie  feel  she  is  growing 
up  fast,  as  she  plans  for  a  future  that  can- 
not include  Tom  for  some  time.  Working 
hard  for  a  musical  scholarship,  grateful 
for  the  friendship  of  Tom's  brother  Paul, 
Julie  does  not  suspect  that,  out  of  the  past 
which  conceals  the  fate  of  her  parents,  a 
strange  threat  is  taking  shape — a  threat  to 
more    than    her    own    security.    NBC-TV. 

THE  GREATEST  GIFT  When  Dr.  Eve 
Allen  decided  to  testify  against  the  son  of 
the  town's  most  powerful  citizen,  she  knew 
she  was  piling  up  trouble  for  herself.  But 
she  did  not  expect  the  vicious  personal  at- 
tack made  on  her  in  court.  Faced  with  the 
destruction  of  her  character  as  a  woman 
and  a  doctor,  Eve  really  begins  to  fight. 
Does  romance  come  to  her,  together  with 
the  assistance  she  so  desperately  needs? 
NBC-TV. 

THE  GUIDING  LIGHT  Dr.  Dick  Grant's 
breakdown  stuns  his  family  and  shatters 
quite  a  few  plans  for  the  future,  even  to 
some  extent  those  of  Dr.  Bart  Thompson, 
who  was  hoping  for  just  such  an  outcome 
in  his  planned  campaign  to  undermine  his 
young  associate.  Will  it  force  Dick's  ex- 
wife  Kathy  to  reconsider  her  feelings  about 
him?  Will  it  serve  to  clarify  Dick's  own 
thoughts  about  the  problems  he  faces? 
CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

HAWKINS  FALLS  The  peculiar  cir- 
cumstances of  Mitch  Frederick's  engage- 
ment make  him  the  subject  of  much 
curious  gossip,  and  gossip  in  a  town  like 
Hawkins  Falls  has  few  rivals  as  the  fa- 
vorite indoor  and  outdoor  sport.  Can  Lona 
and  Floyd  Corey  help  Mitch  straighten 
out  his  personal  life  and  get  himself  on 
the  road  toward  the  kind  of  happiness 
they  have  found  together?  Or  will  he  re- 
sent their  efforts  in  some  serious  way? 
NBC-TV. 

HILLTOP  HOUSE  Almost  from  her 
first  meeting  with  Carl  Burnett,  Julie 
Nixon  found  him  a  troubling  person,  and 


her  uneasiness  was  justified  when  her 
sincere  attempt  to  help  him  and  his  wife 
straighten  out  their  lives,  for  the  sake  of 
their  little  boy,  met  with  such  curious  re- 
sults. Dedicated  to  helping  children,  Julie 
will  never  regret  her  efforts  on  Tony's 
behalf,  despite  the  strange,  far-reaching 
effect  on  herself.  CBS  Radio. 

JUST  PLAIN  BILL  Nancy  Donovan's 
trial  for  the  murder  of  Thelma  Nelson 
marks  a  deep  crisis  in  her  life  as  the  clever 
Peter  Dyke  Hampton  makes  a  brilliant 
legal  fight  to  save  her  against  the  ma- 
neuvers of  the  man  known  as  The  Big 
Boss  and  his  tricky,  lying  secretary.  But 
Nancy's  father,  Bill  Davidson,  wonders 
how  Nancy's  marriage  will  withstand 
Peter's  new  importance  in  Nancy's  life.  Will 
her  gratitude  be  mixed  with  something 
else?   NBC  Radio. 

LORENZO  JONES  Belle's  long,  an- 
guished fight  to  prove  her  marriage  to 
Lorenzo  against  Phoebe  Larkins'  false 
claim  of  being  his  wife  gets  new  as- 
sistance from  the  fascinating  novelist, 
Denis  Scott.  But  Denis  has  his  own  reason 
for  helping  Belle,  and  as  his  interest  in 
her  grows  he  realizes  that  if  he  helps  her 
establish  herself  as  Lorenzo's  wife  he  will 
be  ruining  his  own  happiness.  What  will 
be  Denis'  place  in  Belle's  future?  NBC 
Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Paul  Raven's  former 
wife,  neurotic  to  the  point  of  being  de- 
ranged, plans  to  ruin  Paul's  new  marriage 
and  all  his  hard-won  happiness  and  is 
completely  careless  of  anything  that  might 
happen  to  his  wife,  Vanessa,  in  the  process. 
What  will  happen  when  Judith  is  forced  to 
realize  that  Van  is  far  from  being  the 
negligible,  colorless  creature  she  has  im- 
agined— and  has  some  plans  and  ideas  of 
her  own?  CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  Even  with  the  proof  of 
Laura's  perfidy  staring  her  in  the  face,  Ma 
might  have  tried  to  find  some  explana- 
tion for  her  behavior  if  the  girl's  greed  had 
not  threatened  the  Pierce  milk  company 
and  the  jobs  of  all  the  folks  who  work 
there.  For  them,  Ma  fights  Laura,  and 
fights  hard.  What  will  happen  to  Billy 
Pierce,  who  so  misguidedly  married  Laura 
and  was  a  long  time  discovering  why  she 
married  him?   CBS  Radio. 

ONE  MAN'S  FAMILY  Father  Barbour's 
concern  over  his  family,  particularly  over 
his  daughters,  seemed  unjust  and  excessive 
when  it  restricted  their  liberty,  but  rebel- 
lious Hazel  has  come  to  understand  that  in 
many  ways  her  father  might  have  been 
more  right  than  she  could  admit.  Her  new 
happiness  makes  Claudia's  trouble  all  the 
darker,  as  she  uncertainly  faces  a  future 
in  which  she  is  neither  wife  nor  widow. 
NBC-TV. 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  A  new  threat  to 
the  happiness  of  Sunday  and  her  husband, 
Lord  Henry  Brinthrope,  comes  from  an  un- 
expected quarter  as  Leslie  Northurst  at- 
tacks Henry's  right  to  the  Brinthrope  title 
and  wealth.  How  will  Sunday  protect  her- 
self against  this  unscrupulous  pretender, 
who  has  tried  to  persuade  her  that  she 
should  remain  Lady  Brinthrope  as  his  wife 
after  he  succeeds  in  taking  the  title  from 
Lord  Henry?  How  far  will  Leslie  go  to  win 
both  his  goals?  CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  YOUNG'S  FAMILY  Sid  Gray- 
son's evil  plot  begins  to  come  apart  as  his 
(Continued  on  page  24) 


Can  your  hair  live  uP  to  the 
flattery  of  a  giddy  little  hat? 


Why  be  heartsick  about  dull,  dry  hair? 

It  can  glow  with  youth  because  Helene  Curtis 

brings  you  up  to  10  times  more  absorbable  lanolin! 

Ever  say  to  yourself:  "I  can't  wear  that  hat  today. 
My  hair  looks  horrible!"  Of  course,  you  know  just  wishing 
won't  bring  a  sprightly  look  back  to  dull,  dry  hair. 

But  Helene  Curtis  lanolin  discovery*  makes  it 
almost  that  simple.   It  brings  you  100%  absorbable  lanolin 
which  returns  to  your  hair  the  same  kind  of  natural 
oil  that  was  lost  by  heat,  wind  or  water. 

Actually,  it's  up  to  10  times  more  effective  than  any 
hair  and  scalp  conditioner  you've  ever  used  before  because 
it  contains  up  to  10  times  more  absorbable  lanolin. 

There  are  no  "filler"  oils  to  grease  your  hair 
or  make  you  lose  your  wave. 
Just  spray.  Brush.  Then  watch. 
You'll  see  results  in  a  twinkling! 

Isn't  it  about  time  you  let  a 
little  flattery  go  to  your  head? 

Regular  size  $1.25     New  large  economy  size  $1.89 


lanolin  discovery 


Plus  tax. 


lanolin 

discovery 


&$ 


the  breath  of  life  for  lifeless  looking  Hair  l 


•TRADEMARK 


i$&~j 


23 


AND  INTRODUCING 

NEW 


BOTH  FOR  THE  PRICE  OF  ONE... 
IN  THIS  GAY  GIFT  PACKAGE 

FOR  A  LIMITED  TIME  ONLY! 


BOURJOIS 


*Cr«or«d  In  Franc* . 
Mod*  In  U.S.  A. 


DAYTIME  DIARY 


(Continued  from  page  23) 


accomplice's  confession  makes  it  difficult 
for  him  to  keep  up  his  deception.  But  the 
Youngs  are  less  interested  in  justice  against 
him  at  the  moment  than  they  are  in  the 
frightening  breakdown  of  Peggy  Young's 
husband,  Carter  Trent,  who,  believing  him- 
self guilty  of  a  homicide,  runs  away.  Will 
they  find  him  before  he  does  himself,  or 
someone  else,  great  damage?   NBC  Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  So  often  has  Perry 
Mason  been  more  successful  than  the  police 
in  solving  crime  that  many  of  his  friends, 
and  sometimes  his  clients,  forget  that  actu- 
ally he  is  not  a  detective  but  a  lawyer,  with 
all  a  lawyer's  responsibility  for  managing 
a  case  with  strict  attention  to  all  the  legal 
rules.  Can  he  find  a  way  of  suspending 
those  rules  in  time  to  save  his  present 
client?  CBS  Radio. 

PORTIA  FACES  LIFE  Walter  Man- 
ning bitterly  and  unjustly  decides  that  it 
is  partly  his  wife  Portia's  fault  that  he  has 
had  to  lock  horns  with  the  town's  most 
influential  villain.  All  Portia's  efforts  seem 
only  to  intensify  the  gulf  between  them. 
Under  the  circumstances,  young  Dorrie 
Blake  may  find  it  easy  to  convince  Walter 
that  she  is  as  attractive  to  him  as  he  has 
always  been  to  her.    CBS-TV. 

THE    RIGHT    TO    HAPPINESS       A 

friendly  gesture  has  involved  Carolyn  in 
one  of  the  most  complicated  problems  she 
has  ever  faced,  as  the  development  of  the 
Wayne  case  makes  it  easier  than  ever  for 
her  enemies  to  attack  her  and  to  pile  up 
more  ammunition  against  her  husband, 
Miles  Nelson.  Will  the  trial  have  a  far- 
reaching  effect  on  Miles'  future — not  only 
on  his  political  future  but  even  perhaps 
on  his  personal  one?     NBC  Radio. 

THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  Sybil  Overton's 
unremitting  efforts  to  destroy  Dr.  Jim 
Brent  and  his  wife  Jocelyn  have  never 
quite  hit  their  mark,  but  have  brought 
a  great  deal  of  heartache  and  misery  to 
others  who  were  not  even  her  prime  tar- 
gets. Torn  between  family  loyalty  and  a 
grim  realization  of  what  is  happening  to 
his  sister's  mind,  Hugh  Overton  faces  a 
most  difficult  problem.  And  Jocelyn  faces 
another,  one  she  did  not  anticipate.  CBS- 
TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

The  shock  of  her  broken  romance  with 
Brett  Chapman  has  forced  Helen  Trent 
to  admit  what  she  was  trying  to  forget — 
that  she  has  never  stopped  loving  Gil 
Whitney.  But  just  as  it  seems  dimly  pos- 
sible that  Gil  might  free  himself  from  his 
empty  marriage  to  Cynthia,  a  new  compli- 
cation enters  with  Gwen  Sewell,  who  is 
determined  to  annex  Gil  the  moment  Cyn- 
thia divorces  him.  Can  Gwen  ruin  Helen's 
only  hope  for  true  happiness?     CBS  Radio. 

ROSEMARY  Lonnie's  shocking  elope- 
ment and  its  tragic  aftermath  bring  Rose- 
mary and  Bill  to  the  edge  of  serious  dis- 
agreement over  the  boy  who  had  been 
their  protege,  for  Bill's  bitter  disillusion- 
ment prevents  him  from  feeling,  as  Rose- 
mary does,  that  they  do  not  yet  know  the 
whole  story.  Gradually,  however,  Lon- 
nies  last-minute  change  of  heart  comes 
to   light.     Will   Springdale   permit   him   to 


live  down  his  tragic  mistake?  CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH     FOR     TOMORROW     The 

dreadful  ordeal  faced  by  Joanne  Barron 
as  she  goes  on  trial  for  murder  is  made 
somewhat  easier  by  the  good  friends  work- 
ing so  unremittingly  for  her  release.  It 
is  Arthur  Tate  who  first  grasps  at  the 
vague  mention  of  "the  little  man" — the 
tiny  crack  that  might  widen  into  Joanne's 
escape  from  the  trap  that  has  been  so  care- 
fully set  for  her.  Has  little  Mr.  Higbee 
finally    exhausted    his    aces?     CBS-TV. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Pauline  Tyr- 
rell never  forgave  Peter  Ames  for  marry- 
ing her  sister,  and  with  Ellen's  death  found 
new  fuel  for  hatred  when  Peter  showed  no 
sign  of  turning  to  her  for  comfort.  In- 
fluenced by  her,  her  wealthy  father  blocks 
Peter's  every  effort  to  build  a  new  life  for 
himself  and  his  children.  But  are  the 
Tyrrells  really  so  powerful  that  they  can 
use  Jane  Edwards  as  a  threat  to  Peter's 
custody  of  his  family?    CBS-TV. 

THE  SECOND  MRS.  RVRTON  Mo- 
ney always  confers  power,  and  the  dow- 
ager Mrs.  Burton  has  used  her  power  in 
the  past  to  try  to  control  the  lives  of  her 
son  Stan  and  her  daughter  Marcia.  It  is 
hard  for  her  to  realize  that  they  are  now 
adults,  married  and  with  families  of  their 
own,  and  no  longer  so  willing  to  humor 
her.  Is  Stan  really  mature  enough  not 
only  to  stand  up  against  her  but  to  protect 
his  wife  as  well?     CBS  Radio. 

STELLA  DALLAS  Courage  and  persist- 
ence have  always  been  Stella's  strength, 
but  for  once  she  stands  ready  to  acknowl- 
edge defeat  as  her  daughter  Laurel's  mar- 
riage weakens  under  the  assault  of  Ada 
Dexter,  who  is  madly  determined  to  make 
Laurel  the  wife  of  her  own  son,  Stanley 
Warrick.  Will  Laurel's  husband  Dick 
step  aside,  or  will  Ada  pursue  her  inten- 
tion to  the  point  of  murdering  him  in  order 
to  free  Laurel?     NBC  Radio. 

THIS  IS  NORA  DRAKE  Wyn  Robin- 
son's hidden,  sinister  role  in  the  fate  that 
seems  to  be  tracking  Nora  and  her  hus- 
band, Fred  Molina,  is  finally  revealed  by 
Dorothy  Gebert,  who  shocks  Fred  by  tell- 
ing him  that  Wyn  is  in  league  with  Dan 
Welch,  head  of  the  Syndicate,  in  his  efforts 
to  ruin  and  murder  Fred.  Will  Wyn's 
double  game  be  stopped,  or  will  she  find 
some  way  to  discredit  Dorothy's  story, 
even  though  Nora  believes  it  to  be  true? 
CBS  Radio. 

YALiANT  LADY  Helen  Emerson  has 
admitted  to  herself  how  seriously  she 
takes  flyer  Chris  Kendall,  and  no  longer 
hides  the  truth  from  her  family.  But  the 
complications  of  Chris's  past  multiply  as 
he  begins  to  realize  what  is  being  done  to 
his  young  son  by  the  in-laws  who  take 
care  of  him.  Will  his  lack  of  frankness 
with  Helen  make  her  doubtful  of  the 
future?  Will  Bill  Fraser  turn  that  to  his 
own    advantage?     CBS-TV. 

WENDY  WARREN  AND  THE  NEWS 

Stunned  by  grief  over  Mark,  but  not  shat- 
tered, Wendy  knows  she  must  and  will 
make  something  of  the  new  life  that  now 
opens  before  her.  Her  sympathetic  man- 
aging  editor  offers   excitement   and   chal- 


24 


lenge  in  the  way  of  a  new  assignment.  If 
she  agrees  to  try  it,  will  it  lead  to  a  quick- 
er recovery  of  her  real  zest  for  living — or 
to  something  neither  she  nor  Don  Smith 
remotely  expected?  What  lies  ahead  for 
Wendy?     CBS  Radio. 

WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES  The  mar- 
riage of  Joan  and  Harry  Davis  has  endured 
so  many  trials  and  come  triumphantly 
through  so  many  crises  that  neither  Joan 
nor  Harry  can  really  doubt  the  strength 
of  their  relationship.  But  nevertheless 
Harry  reacts  sensitively,  as  any  man  might, 
when  his  position  as  head  of  the  house  is 
threatened  through  no  fault  of  his  own. 
Will  his  pride  lead  him  to  some  rash  ef- 
fort which  may  permanently  injure  his 
health?     ABC    Radio. 

THE  WOMAN  IN  MY  HOUSE  Ab- 
sorbed in  his  work,  shielded  from  the  rest 
of  the  family,  Jeff  Carter  is  nevertheless 
wryly  aware  that  his  continued  bachelor- 
hood is  a  source  of  considerable  specula- 
tion for  the  rest  of  the  Carters— and  of 
concern  for  his  mother.  Jessie  Carter  does 
not  believe  her  eldest  son  is  a  born  bache- 
lor, but  his  resistance  to  marriage  is  cer- 
tainly stronger  than  average.  Is  there  any 
woman  in  his  life?     NBC  Radio. 

YOUNG  BR.  MALONE  The  close  at- 
tachment between  a  widower  and  his  child 
can  be  a  wonderful  thing,  but  for  some 
time  Dr.  Jerry  Malone's  mother  has  sus- 
pected that  his  daughter  Jill  was  becoming 
too  possessive  of  her  father.  Jerry's  plans 
for  marriage  bring  Jill's  hostility  into  the 
open,  and  Mother  Malone  wonders  about 
the  future.  Meanwhile,  Dr.  Mason  and 
Marcia  Sutton  are  also  making  plans.  CBS 
Radio. 

YOUNG  WiDDER  BROWN  In  his  ef- 
fort to  ruin  the  plans  of  Michael  Forsyth 
and  Ellen  Brown,  Michael's  brother  has 
stumbled  on  a  secret  so  dangerous  that  it 
may  shake  the  whole  town  of  Simpson- 
ville.  But,  despite  heavy  pressures,  El- 
len's faith  in  Michael  remains  steadfast, 
even  enabling  her  to  turn  a  deaf  ear  to  the 
advice  and  attentions  of  Dr.  Anthony  Lor- 
ing,  to  whom  she  was  once  engaged.  Will 
her  faith  be  enough  of  a  weapon  against 
her  enemies?     NBC  Radio. 


g£!»* 


Overnight — this  bra  has  become  a 

startling  success  with  America's 

best  dressed  women  . . .  and  here's  why/ 


The  Playtex  Living  Bra  uses  elastic 
and  nylon  in  a  new  way,  to  g-i-v-e  with 
your  every  motion ...  to  1-i-v-e  with 
you/  An  exclusive  design,  rounds 
and  raises  as  no  bra  ever  before  . . . 
no  matter  what  size  or  in-between  size 
you  are/  Now  you  can  enjoy  upmost 
uplift  in  utmost  comfort.  See  the  dif- 
ference .  ..feel  the  difference ...  on  you  / 


So  flattering,  so  comfortable 
that  once  women  try  it,  they  refu 
to  slip  back  into  their  old  b 


New 


Playtex 


Bra 


Custom-contoured" to  natter,  feel  and  fit 
as  if  fashioned  for  you  alone/ 


SZmUc,  CA.Ui-vuHi 


P^e 


LOOK   FOR   PLAYTEX     M*      V  BRA* 

in  the  heavenly  blue  package  at  department 
stores  and  specialty  shops  everywhere. 
In  gleaming  white.  Wonderfully  washable— 
without  ironing/  Sizes  32A— 40C— $3.95 

•U.S.A.  and  foreign  patents  pending 


©1955    International  Latex  Corporation  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Dover  De 
In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont. 


25 


26 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST 


(Continued  from  page  7) 


folks  may  think  radio  is  on  its  way  out, 
but  certainly  not  CBS!  They've  just 
handed  Patsy  Campbell  a  three-year 
contract  to  continue  in  her  role  as  Terry 
on  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton,  the  part  she 
has  been  playing  in  the  popular  daytime 
serial  since  1947.  Under  her  new  deal 
with  CBS  Radio,  Patsy  is  also  allowed 
to  do   an   occasional  television  program. 

Jack  Barry,  of  the  kiddie  program, 
Winky  Dink  And  You,  and  his  actress- 
wife,  Marcia  Van  Dyke,  have  welcomed 
their  second  visit  from  the  stork — a  boy, 
whom  they've  named  Jonathan.  The 
Barrys  have  another  son,  Jeffrey,  who 
is  a  year  and  a  half  old,  and  Jack  now 
says  the  third  tot — when  and  if — will  just 
have  to  be  a  girl. 

Bob  Hope  is  all  excited  about  his  latest 
talent  find,  Mile.  Line  Renaud,  a  French 
gal  who  made  her  American  TV  debut 
on  the  show  Bob  filmed  in  Paris.  Line, 
one  of  the  top  recording  artists  in  France 
today  because  of  her  French  version  of 
"Doggie  in  the  Window,"  is  due  in  the. 
States  any  minute  for  another  appearance 
with  Hope,  and  he  is  convinced  she 
should  stay  over  here  and  pursue  a 
night-club,  movie  and  TV  career." 

It  looks  as  though  little  Gail  Clooney, 
nine-year-old  younger  sister  of  the  sing- 
ing Clooney  girls,  Rosemary  and  Betty, 
is  also  headed  for  a  future  in  show  busi- 
ness. She  has  that  vocal  spark,  too,  and 
is  being  coached  by  the  elder  members, 
of  the  Clooney  clan. 

Well-known  actor  Charles  Dingle  has 
taken  over  the  role  of  Hugh  Overton  in 
the  daytime  serial,  The  Road  Of  Life,  and 
will  remain  in  the  part  permanently. 

Complaining  commuters  have  nothing 
on  actress  Anne  Burr,  star  of  NBC-TV's 
day  drama,  The  Greatest  Gift.  Anne  lives 
in  New  York,  but  her  daily  program  is 
telecast  from  Philadelphia,  so  she  gets  up 
at  six-thirty  every  morning  in  time  to 
catch  an  eight  o'clock  train  to  the  Quaker 
City.  She  has  her  breakfast  and  studies 
her  lines  on  the  train,  and  at  ten  o'clock 
her  rehearsals  begin.  The  show  goes  on 
the  air  at  three  in  the  afternoon,  then 
Anne  catches  the  four  o'clock  choo-choo 
back  to  Manhattan,  has  an  early  dinner 
with  her  husband,  watches  a  couple  of 
television  shows  and  hits  the  pillow  early 
in  order  to  make  that  six-thirty  alarm 
call  the  next  morning. 

Ann  Baker,  who  is  television's  Corliss 


Dave  Garroway  now  has  two  of  'em  on 
Today — J.  Fred  Muggs  and  the  latter's 
wee  protegee  (a  baby-girl  chimpanzee)! 


Patsy  Campbell's  new  contract  makes 
sure  she'll  continue  in  title  role  of 
CBS  Radio's  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton. 


Archer,  recently  revealed  that  she  has 
been  the  bride  of  Los  Angeles  construc- 
tion man  Earl  Long  for  more  than  a  year. 
Ann,  who  is  twenty-two,  confessed  she 
had  kept  her  marriage  a  secret  because 
she  feared  her  career  might  suffer.  Ann 
was  worried  that  the  public  wouldn't 
accept  her  as  a  teenager  on  the  show  if 
they  knew  she  was  a  married  woman  in 
real  life. 

Singer  Marion  Hutton  and  musical 
director  Victor  Schoen  became  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  in  Santa  Monica,  California,  a  few 
weeks  ago,  with  sister  Betty  as  matron  of 
honor.  It  was  the  third  marriage  for  each. 
Betty,  by  the  way,  is  still  turning  down 
television  offers,  insisting  she  has  really 
given  up  her  career  for  good.  But  those 
who  know  her  best  don't  believe  it,  and 
vow  she'll  change  her  mind  any  day  now. 

On  a  sad  note,  Polly  Bergen,  the  Pepsi- 
Cola  girl,  and  her  actor  husband,  Jerome 
Courtland,  have  agreed  to  disagree  and, 
at  the  moment,  are  officially  separated. 
Career  trouble,  it  seems,  and  close  friends 
are  trying  to  dissuade  the  couple  from,  a 
quick  divorce  in  the  hope  they  may  be 
able  to  solve  their  problems. 

Mulling  the  Mail: 

Mr.  B.  B.,  Chevy  Chase,  Md.:  Lucille 
Wall  is  not  on  any  regular  television  show 
at  the  moment.  .  .  .  Miss  H.  B.,  Hollister, 
Calif.:  Sorry,  I  cannot  send  out  pictures 
of  stars,  but  suggest  you  write  directly  to 
the  people  in  whom  you  are  interested, 
in  care  of  their  programs.  .  .  .  Mr.  G.  W., 
Athens,  Ohio:  Lee  Ann  Meriwether,  the 
current  Miss  America,  has  made  a  couple 
of  television  appearances  and  aspires  to  a 
serious  acting  career  after  she  finishes  her 
national  tour,  which  is  part  of  her  duties. 
As  to  your  other  question,  I  suggest  you 
write  Miss  Meriwether,  or  her  mother, 
c/o  The  Miss  America  Contest  Commit- 
tee, Atlantic  City,  N.  J.  .  .  .  Mrs.  L.  P., 
Burbank,  Calif.:  Yes,  I  would  say  you 
are  right  in  assuming  Pinky  Lee  is  just 
about  the  most  popular  television  per- 
sonality with  the  youngsters  right  now, 
and  his  rating  keeps  going  up  and  up. 
The  book  you  asked  about  is  Otto,  the 
Bashful  Pup,  a  book  of  verses  Pinky 
wrote  for  children,  and  it  will  be  pub- 


TO  COAST 


lished  this  month  by  Dial  press.  .  .  .  Mrs. 
W.D.R.,  Detroit,  Mich.:  Sorry,  I  cannot 
give  out  home  addresses,  but  the  best 
place  to  write  Eddie  Fisher  would  be 
c/o  Coke  Time,  NBC -TV,  New  York  20, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  Mrs.  J.  B.,  Chicago,  111,  and 
others  who  wrote  about  Mary  Stuart: 
Mary  has  recorded  an  album  of  the  lul- 
labies and  folk  songs  she  has  been  sing- 
ing as  Joanne,  to  her  "daughter"  Patti,  on 
the  show,  Search  For  Tomorrow.  It's  on 
the  Columbia  label,  and  is  called  "Joanne 
Sings  to  Patti."  .  .  .  Miss  H.  C,  Brook- 
haven,  Miss.:  Alice  Faye  and  Phil  Harris 
haven't  done  a  television  show,  mainly 
because  of  her  refusal  to  do  so.  Most 
sponsors  wanted  them  as  a  team.  Phil 
has  made  many  guest  appearances  from 
time  to  time,  however.  .  .  .  Miss  J.  J., 
Philadelphia,  Pa,  and  others  who  asked 
about  Julius  La  Rosa  on  Jack  Paar's 
Morning  Show:  Julius  is  not  signed  to 
appear  on  the  program  regularly,  but 
has  a  sort  of  on-and-off  arrangement 
with  Paar,  and  will  be  on  from  time  to 
time.  During  February,  Julius  will  make 
one  or  two  definite  appearances  of  three 
or  four  days  each. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  .  .  .  ? 

Joan  Edwards,  the  singing  pianist,  who 
had  her  own  program  on  WCBS  every 
morning?  Joan  suffered  a  nervous  break- 
down not  too  long  ago  and  her  doctor 
ordered  her  to  bed  for  a  complete  rest  for 
several  months.  While  she  is  recovering, 
Martha  Wright  has  taken  over  her  show. 

Barry  Wood,  who  was  one  of  the  top 
singers  during  the  so-called  "crooner 
era"  in  the  thirties,  and  once  starred  on 
£he  Hit  Parade  radio  show?  Barry  has 
long  since  given  up  active  performing, 
and  instead  is  very  active  behind  the 
scenes  of  television.  He  had  been  in 
charge  of  the  color  division  of  NBC-TV 
and  recently  was  made  Director  of  Spe- 
cial Events  for  the  network. 

Julie  Oshins,  nightclub  and  stage 
comedian,  who  was  on  many  of  the  early 
variety  TV  shows?  Julie  is  another  who 
has  forsaken  the  footlights  in  favor  of  a 
control  booth.  He  is  now  director-ad- 
visor for  his  old  friend,  Red  Buttons,  on 
the  Red  Buttons  TV  show. 

Ralph  J.  Locke,  veteran  actor,  who  was 
best  known  for  his  heartwarming  role  as 
Papa  David  on  the  Life  Can  Be  Beautiful 
daytime  serial?  I'm  sorry  to  report  that 
Locke  passed  away  in  December  at  the 
Parkchester  Hospital,  in  New  York,  at 
the  age  of  sixty-seven.  He  played  Papa 
David  the  full  fifteen  years  the  program 
v/as  broadcast  until  it  left  the  air  last 
June.  His  widow  is  Mrs.  Nan  Smith 
Locke,  who  formerly  appeared  on  the 
legitimate  stage  with  her  husband. 


Zf  you  have  a  question  about  one  of 
your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or 
wonder  what  has  happened  to  someone 
on  radio  or  television,  drop  me  a  line — 
Miss  Jill  Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205 
East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y,  and 
I'll  try  my  best  to  find  out  for  you  and 
put  the  information  in  the  column.  Un- 
fortunately, we  don't  have  space  to  an- 
swer all  questions,  so  I  try  to  cover  those 
personalities  and  shows  about  whom  we 
receive  the  most  inquiries.  Sorry,  no 
personal  answers. 


Ray  Dorey,  WHDH's  man  about 
music,  has  good  reason  for  saying: 


fit 


Don't  Call  Me 
Deejay" 


B 


i  oston,  once  characterized  in  a  "New  Faces"  revue 
sketch  as  "the  home  of  the  free,  home  of  the  Braves 
home  of  the  Red  Sox,"  has  a  new  claim  to  fame.  It's 
Ray  Dorey,  to  whom  the  Mayor  gave  the  key  to  the  city 
— for  his  "Freedom  Train"  recording — and  to  whom  the 
rest  of  the  city  have  given  their  hearts.  Six  days  a  week 
at  6  A.M.,  there's  music,  news,  weather  reports  and  just 
plain  good  talk  on  The  Ray  Dorey  Show  over  Station 
WHDH.  Much  of  the  music  is  served  up  "live"  by  Ray 
and  his  partner,  pert  Pat  Dale,  and  for  this  and  other 
reasons,  Ray  says,  with  all  the  Yankee  emphasis  of  a 
Vermont-born,  Maine-bred  denizen  of  Massachusetts: 
"Don't  call  me  deejay."  .  .  .  Ray's  informal,  relaxed  song 
and  speech  are  also  aired  daily  at  1:35  P.M.  when  he 
joins  organist -Ken  Wilson  and  pianist  Bill  Green  for 
Stumpus,  a  musical  quiz  on  which  listeners  send  in  song 
titles  to  try  to  "stump  us."  If  the  trio  can't  play  or  sing 
the  song,  the  listener  wins  a  prize.  .  .  .  Ray  himself  never 
collected  the  amateur  contest  prize  he  won  when  he  was 
12 — a  world  tour  with  Henry  Santry  and  his  Soldiers 
of  Fortune.  Child  labor  laws  kept  Ray  at  home,  but  the 
contest  launched  his  career  that  same  year  as  he  sang 
in  knickers  and  long  black  stockings  as  the  "Boy  Blues 


Singer"  with  Leo  Doucette's  band.  When  he  was  a  high 
school  senior,  an  injury  ended  Ray's  football  playing 
days  and  turned  him  into  a  football  "spotter"  for 
Augusta's  Station  WRDO.  He  next  talked  the  station 
into  giving  him  a  15-minute  singing  program  and  from 
there  he  went  to  other  New  England  stations  as  a  disc 
jockey  (oops!)  and  singer.  Then  Willard  Alexander — 
who  discovered  Benny  Goodman — discovered  Ray,  in- 
troduced him  to  Benny,  and  Ray  became  a  singer  with 
the  famous  Goodman  band.  Ray  was  about  to  make  a 
movie  when  the  draft  board  called  him.  After  traveling 
across  the  continent  to  report,  Ray  was  declared  4-F. 
But  the  Goodman  band  disbanded  soon  after  that,  so 
Ray  came  to  Bean  Town  and,  in  1949,  to  WHDH.  .  .  . 
Ray  lives  in  Watertown,  is  married  to  a  fellow  Ver- 
monter  named  Lorraine,  and  has  four  children:  Carol, 
14,  Freddy,  12;  Linda,  7;  and  Gail,  5.  For  a  while,  Carol 
appeared  on  Ray's  Saturday  show  to  talk  about  chil- 
dren's records  but,  when  she  decided  the  job  took  up 
too  much  of  her  playing  time,  she  resigned.  Today,  she's 
"just  a  listener,"  one  of  the  thousands  of  Bostonians  who 
with  all  due  respect  don't  call  Ray  Dorey  "deejay."' 
They  call  him  "just  wonderful." 


28 


Once  a  singer  with  Benny  Goodman,  Ray  now  leads  his  own  band.  At  home^he 
leads   Freddy,  Carol,   Lorraine,   camera-shy  Linda  and  Gail   in   a   barbecue. 


Ray  rises  at  five,   skips  afternoon   naps 
in  favor  of  swims  with   Linda  and  Gail. 


For  the  Easiest  Permanent 
of  Your  Life 


V/ET  IT  / 


Apply  CASUAL  lotion  just  once. 
15  minutes  later,  rinse  with  clear  water. 


FORGET  IT.' 


That's  all  there  is  to  it!  CASUAL  is 

self-neutralizing.  There's  no  resetting. 

Your  work  is  finished ! 


Naturally  lovely,  carefree  curls 
that  last  for  weeks  . . . 

Casual  is  the  word  for  it . . .  soft,  carefree  waves 

and  curls  — never  tight  or  kinky  — beautifully  manageable, 

perfect  for  the  new  flattering  hair  styles  that  highlight  the  softer, 

natural  look.  Tonight  — give  yourself  the  loveliest  wave 

of  your  life  — a  Casual  pin-curl  permanent! 


CASUAL 


takes  just  15  minutes  more  than  setting  your  hair! 

$1.50    PLUS   TAX 


/***/ 


A  LIQUID  SHAMPOO 

THATS 
EXTRA  RICH  7 


m 


ITS   LIQUID 

PRELL 


FOR 


Thrillingly  new  and  different— 
Procter  &  Gamble's  emerald-clear 
Liquid  Prell!  No  other  shampoo  has  this 
unique,  extra-rich  new  formula. 
It  bursts  instantly  into  mounds  of  lather 
—rinses  in  a  twinkling— is  so  mild 
you  could  shampoo  every  day.  And 
Liquid  Prell  leaves  hair  so  caressably  soft 
and  easy  to  manage  — glowing  with  that 
'Radiantly  Alive'  look!  Try  it  today! 

JUST  POUR  IT  ■  .  . 

and  you'll  see  the  glorious  difference  I 


Some  liquid  shampoos  are  too 
thin  and  watery  .  .  .  some  too 
heavy,  and  contain  an  ingre- 
dient that  leaves  a  dulling  film. 
But  Prell  has  a  "just-right" 
consistency  — it  won't  run  and 
never  leaves  a  dulling  film. 


PR  ELL- for  'Radiantly  Alive'  Hair 


CREATED  BY  FHOCTCH  &  GAMBLE 


now  available  2  ways: 


The  exciting,  new  extra-rich  liquid 
in  the  handsome,  easy-grip  bottle! 

And  the  famous,  handy  tube  that's 
ideal  for  the  whole  family  .  .  .  won't 
spill,  drip,  or  break.  It's  concentrated 
—  ounce  for  ounce  it  goes  further! 


"The  Best  Reason  for  Living" 


Grownups  Ozzie  and  Harriet  and  teenagers  Ricky  and  David  have  happily  learned  to  share  their  interests. 

To  Ozzie  and  Harriet  Nelson,  it's  the 

great  adventure  of  being  parents— especially  now 

that  David  and  Ricky  are  in  their  teens 

By   BUD   GOODE 


HPreat   us    like,   grownups!    "When   your 

A  children  become  teenagers,"  says  Harriet 

Nelson,  "that's  what  they'll  say.  And  you'll 

have  to  have  an  answer  ready  for  them." 

Harriet,  who's  seen  with  the  Nelson  fam- 
ily on  ABC -TV's  Adventures  Of  Ozzie 
And  Harriet,  continues:  "One  problem  is 
that  some  parents'  only  answer  is,  'When 
you  act  like  grownups,  we'll  treat  you  like 
grownups!'  But  they  seldom  try  to  help  their 
youngsters  find  the  common  ground  which 
teenagers  and  adults  can  share." 

Ozzie  and  Harriet's  boys,  Ricky,  fourteen, 
and  David  Nelson,  eighteen,  have  been  teen- 
agers now  for  a  combined  total  of  seven 


years.  In  that  time,  the  Nelsons  have  dis- 
covered a  number  of  common  areas  that 
they,  as  adults,  can  share  with  their  teen- 
age boys. 

*  The  first  has  to  do  with  entertaining: 
When  teenagers  entertain  at  home,  the  Nel- 
sons and  their  boys  agree,  the  party  should 
have  a  chaperon.  "The  idea,"  says  Harriet, 
"is  for  an  adult  to  be  available. 

"When  the  boys  were  younger,  for  ex- 
ample," she  continues,  "we  had  parties  more 
frequently  than  we  do  now.  With  these 
parties,  I  was  always  available,  though  not 
necessarily  included  in  the  gang. 

"At  these  affairs,  you  can't  put  on  a  robe 


See  Next  Page 


31 


"The  Best  Reason  for  Living" 


(Continued) 


and  get  comfortable,  because  somebody  may  fall  in  the 
punch  bowl  downstairs  and  need  artificial  respiration. 
So  you  get  all  dressed  up  (in  your  own  house)  as  if  you 
were  preparing  for  a  ball — in  your  room.  Then  you  sit 
out  the  evening  reading,  trying  to  be  comfortable  in  your 
best  party  clothes. 

"But  we  haven't  had  parties  like  that  at  our  house  for 
the  last  three  or  four  years.  One  reason  is  we  work  so 
'round-the-clock  that  there's  no  time  for  the  elegant 
preparations.  The  girls  are  another  reason:  The  parties 
seem  to  have  fallen  into  their  -domain. 

"Now,"  says  Harriet,  "in  the  place  of  parties,  we  have 


a  constant  round  of  gatherings:  On  a  weekend,  for  ex- 
ample, our  house  will  be  filled  with  teenagers;  they 
come  and  go  as  they  please,  so  you  can't  very  well 
describe  it  as  a  party — rather,  they  just  gather. 

"We  seldom  enter  into  their  activities.  We  let  them 
strictly  alone,  except  to  be  pleasant,  say  hello,  and  let 
them  know  they  are  welcome.  But  even  now,  with  the 
boys  in  their  late  teens  (or  so  they  think) ,  we  feel  it  is 
important  that  some  adult  be  available." 

The  Nelsons'  second  rule:  Teenagers  should  tell  their 
parents  where  they  are  going,  whom  they  are  going  to  be 
with,  and  when  they  expect  to  return. 


Ozzie  can't  resist  some  sharp  teasing  on  David's  snappy  new  tie.  But  it's  all  a  good-natured  part  of  the  Nelsons  at  home. 


■**" 


"*,r» 


H ' 


j  J^t 


** 


n. 


.■^ 


^ 


"This,"  says  Harriet,  "is  a  family  rule.  When  the  boys 
were  smaller,  we  did  this  automatically.  We  told  them 
and  the  baby-sitter  where  we'd  be  and  all  essential 
information,  and  left  the  phone  number.  We  felt  much 
better,  that  way,  because  we  knew  they  could  get  in 
touch  with  us,  should  anything  go  wrong. 

"I  didn't  realize  how  much  this  had  soaked  in  until 
one  night  recently,  when  David,  having  been  out  rather 
late,  called  to  say:  'I'm  down  at  so-and-so's  house — 
we're  having  a  bull  session.  Is  it  all  right  if  I  stay  out 
till  later?' 

"I  said,  'Yes,  of  course,  it  is  .  .  .  what  time  do  you 
expect  to  be  home?' 

"  'Oh,  about  two-thirtyish,'  he  said. 

"Though  that  sounded  rather  late,"  smiles  Harriet, 
"I  said,  'Yes,  it's  perfectly  all  right.'  Under  the  circum- 
stances, it  was  better  than  saying,  'No,  you  had  better 
come  home  right  now.'  That  would  have  undone  every- 
thing we'd  built  up  over  the  years. 

"Later  we  discussed  the  problem  of  the  early  morning 
hours  and  agreed  that  one  or  one-thirty  was  a  more 
reasonable  hour  than  two-thirty  or  three. 

"But,  generally  speaking,  we  think  it's  simple  adult 
behavior  for  us  to  tell  the  children  where  we  are,  when 
we'll  be  back,  and  so  forth,  and  they  do  likewise.  That 
way  we  can  relax,  have  a  good  time — and,  if  something 
comes  up  to  change  our  plans,  we  simply  call  in  and 
advise.  That  way,  nobody  worries  unnecessarily." 

Some  teenagers  think  that  smoking  and  drinking  is 
grown-up  behavior.  Not  so,  in  the  Nelson  household. 
"The  boys  don't  drink  and  they  don't  smoke,"  says 
Harriet  seriously.  "And  I  think  Ozzie  is  one  good  reason 
that  they  don't.  Ozzie  doesn't  smoke;  when  he  was  in 
college  he  was  an  all-around  athlete.  The  boys  want  to 
be  like  their  father.  They  play  football,  basketball,  and 
ice  skate,  and  they  know  that  smoking  cuts  their  wind. 

"When  David  was  at  Hollywood  High  School,  he  was 
on  the  varsity  football  team.  He's  now  in  his  first  year  at 
USC,  and  Ricky,  emulating  his  (Continued  on  page  95) 

The  Adventures  Of  Ozzie  And  Harriet,  seen  on  ABC-TV,  Fri.,  8  P.M. 
EST,  is  sponsored  alternately  by  the  Hotpoint  Co.  and  Listerine. 


David  and  Ricky  read  up  on  autos.  This  year, 
Ricky's  following  in   David's  football  footsteps. 


Teen-talk  on  the  phonevcan  be  a  problem,  but 
David  agrees  to  hang  up  for  Dad's  expected  call. 


At  play  or  work,  they're  always  a  team.  Here — after  a  swim  at  Juan  Les  Pins,  France — Ricky,  Ozzie  and  David  rejoin  Harriet. 


ML *^      ~ M^4 


He  wishes  the  days  were 
longer,  so  he  could  be  as  kind 
as  he'd  like  to  fee,  to  all 
the  people  he'd  like  to  know 


Offstage,  Garry's  an  average  commuter 
.  .  .  doing  his  daily  work  with  assistant 
Shirley   Reeser  .  .  .  boating  weekends. 


lim 


SERIOUSLY  SPEAKING 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 

This  year  Garry  Moore  celebrates  his 
fortieth  birthday,  his  twentieth  year 
as  "a  can  of  beans,"  his  fifteenth 
wedding  anniversary,  his  fifth  year  in 
television  and  his  first  year  in  Bermuda 
shorts.  Prior  to  last  summer,  he  was 
merely  reputed  to  be  the  nicest  guy  in 
the  business.  Since  wearing  the  short 
pants  he  has  earned  title  to  "the  most 
beautiful  legs" — male,  of  course — in 
television. 

Frivolous,  it  wasn't.  There  is  much 
about  Garry  that  he  intends  to  be  hu- 
morous, but  nothing  that  is  silly.  The 
shorts  represented  something  he  was 
ready  to  take  a  stand  on  (or  in)  after 
many  summers  of  panting  in  trousered 
discomfort.  Garry  is  tough.  Not  "Dead 
End"  tough.  It's  just  that  he's  so  nice, 
people  tend  to  forget  that,  in  order  to 
be  so  nice,  you  have  to  be  a  person  of 
conviction  and  strength.  Garry  is,  also, 
a  man  of  intelligence  with  a  superior  and 
well -functioning  code  of  ethics.  True, 
he  is  very  funny  but — like  most  men 
who  perform  funny — he  is  actually  very 
serious.    It's  no  (Continued  on  page  78) 

The  Garry  Moore  Show  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F, 
10  A.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  He 
also  emcees  Tve  Got  A  Secret,  over  CBS-TV, 
Wed..  9:30  P.M.  EST,  for  Cavalier  Cigarettes. 


His  sense  of  fun  is  instinctive,  rather  than  professional.  Garry's  just 
like  a  kid,  when  it  comes  to  a  turtle  race  .  .  .  but  then,  so  are  his 
musical  director,  Howard  Smith,  and  singers  Ken  Carson  and  Denise  Lor! 


In  public  life,  Garry's  still  a  quiet  man,  with  serious  ideas  about  those  Bermuda  shorts  he  wears  (below,  with  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Daniel  Reiss,  on  I've  Got  A  Secret).  He  loves  his  audiences  and  will  go  far  to  meet  them  .  .  .  even  in  busy  stores  .  .  . 
where  he  often  envies  those  who  sell  staple  products.  "I'm  my  own  product,"  he  says,  rather  wistfully,  "a  can  of  beans." 


35 


"Together"  is  the  word  that  spells  "success"  for  Ethel  Wilson  and  King  Colder,  in  both  marriage  and  acting  careers. 

Greater  than  Glamour 


36 


Scrapbooks  record  the  plays  they've  done  together. 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 

One  of  the  stories  Ethel  Wilson  enjoys  telling  on 
herself  is  about  the  time,  some  years  ago,  when 
she  got  into  conversation  with  a  nice  looking 
man  who  sat  next  to  her  on  a  train  in  New  York.  After 
they  had  talked  a  while,  he  said,  suddenly: 
"You  know,  I  would  be  willing  to  bet  you  are 
a  schoolteacher.  And  you  are  just  the  kind 
of  teacher  I  wish  I  might  have  had." 

As  a  highly  successful  professional  actress,  then 
well  known  on  the  stage  (and  now  equally 
well  known  on  radio  in  many  roles, 
particularly  as  Mrs.  Summers  in  Young  Widder 
Brown)  Ethel  Wilson  (Continued  on  page  98) 

Ethel  Wilson  is  Harriet  Summers  in  Young  Widder  Brown,  heard 
over  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  at  4:30  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Prom 
Home  Permanent,  White  Rain,  Haley's  M-0  and  Bayer  Aspirin. 


Ethel  Wilson — the  Harriet  Summers 
of  Young  Widder  Brown — knows  the 
real  things  that  make  for  happiness 


Years  of  touring  have  made  home  doubly  precious  to 
the  Calders,  and  Ethel  loves  to  handle  the  heirlooms 
which  have  come  to  them  from  both  sides  of  the  family. 


Seth  Thomas  clock  was  King's  first  engagement  gift 
to  Ethel,  a  promise  of  the  home  to  come.  Silver  service 
at  left  was  his  mother's  most  treasured  wedding  gift. 


37 


Magic  Gift  of  Life 


Burr  Tillstrom  gave  Kukla  and  Ollie  humor  and 
tenderness,  and  they  have  repaid  him  with  eternal  youth 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


Once  upon  a  time,  in  the  city  of  Chicago,  on  a 
spring  evening  in  1936,  a  high  school  boy  came 
to  a  dancing  star's  dressing  room  bearing  a 
parting  gift  for  the  ballerina  who  had  become,  to 
him,  the  personification  of  all  loveliness. 

Night  after  night,  during  that  Ballet  Russe  engage- 
ment, Burr  Tillstrom  had  watched  Tamara  Touma- 
nova  float  through  the  enchanted  "Swan  Lake"  or 
"Les  Sylphides."  Going  backstage  to  meet  her,  he 
had  found  her  more  than  gracious.  As  their  acquain- 
tance grew  into  friendship,  he  had  told  her  of  his 
dreams  and  ambitions. 

"Certainly,  I'd  like  a  stage  career,"  he  had  confided, 
"but,  gosh — I  want  to  eat  regularly,  too.  Now  that 
I've  won  a  scholarship  to  the  University  of  Chicago, 


I  had  better  become  a  teacher,"  he  said  earnestly. 

Yes,  he  had  acted  in  school  plays,  he  added,  but 
somehow  he  always  seemed  to  get  the  role  of  an  old 
man,  balding  and  querulous.  He  found  marionettes 
and  puppets  more  to  his  liking. 

Intrigued  by  his  description  of  the  lively  characters 
in  his  troupe,  Toumanova  had  visited  the  Tillstrom 
home  and  tried  her  hand  at  making  them  perform. 
Because  she  enjoyed  it,  Burr  decided  to  give  her  a 
puppet  as  a  remembrance.  It  must,  however,  be  a 
special  kind  of  puppet — a  companion  to  share  her 
laughter,  ease  her  sadness,  and  to  talk  to  when  she 
was  lonely. 

Burr  had  made  one  creature  he  thought  would 
suit.  It  was  a  hand  puppet  with  balding  head,  bulbous 

Continued  k. 


Burr    and    his    two    families:    Below,    his    parents — Dr.    and     Mrs.    Burr  Tillstrom — and   their   pet,    "Phoebe." 
Right,  his  trio  of  stars — the  aptly  named  Kukla,  the  understanding  Fran  Allison,  and  baritone  Oliver  J.  Dragon. 


.<■--;* 


%=- 


*v 


J 


38 


Workshop:  Joe  Lockwood,  Burr  and  Fran  give  the  TV 
family  loving  care.  At  home:  Burr  and  his  mother  still 
share  the  mirth  and  music  he's  enjoyed  since  childhood. 


nose  and  a  quizzical  look — almost  a  self-portrait  of  Burr 
himself  in  one  of  his  old-man  roles.  He  had  intended  it 
for  another  puppeteer.  But,  when  he  had  it  packed,  ready 
to  ship,  he  had  so  hated  to  part  with  it  that  he  sent  an- 
other figure  instead.  Now,  because  it  was  his  favorite,  he 
would  give  it  to  his  adored  Toumanova. 

From  the  first  moment  that  she  saw  it,  he  wanted  it  to 
have  animation — so,  on  meeting  her,  he  directed,  "Close 
your  eyes.  I've  got  a  surprise."  In  a  moment,  he  was 
ready.    "Now  open  them." 

As  the  ballerina  turned  and  looked,  the  figure  tilted  its 
head  flirtatiously.  She  laughed  with  delight.  "Kukla!" 
she  cried. 

Burr  liked  the  sound  of  the  word.  "What  does  it  mean?" 

"It's  Russian  for  doll,"  Toumanova  explained.  "It's  the 
Greek  word,  too.  But  there's  more  meaning  I  just  can't 
express.   It's  any  precious  little  "thing." 

The  puppet  had  found  a  name — and,  instantly,  he 
seemed  to  come  alive.  With  an  independence  of  his  own, 
he  danced  and  strutted.  To  Burr,  it  was  strange,  exciting 
and  a  little  terrifying.  He  realized  he  could  no  more  give 
Kukla  away  than  he  could  give  away  the  right  hand  on 
which  Kukla  rested.  The  creature  had  ceased  to  be  a 
puppet  and  had  become  part  of  him. 

Burr  Tillstrom's  Kukla;  Fran  And  dllie.  ABC-TV,  M-F,  7  P.M.  EST. 


r 


Magic  Gift  of  Life 


(Continued) 


Trains  and  travel  are  no  novelty  today  to  Burr  and  his 
inseparable  companion,  Kukla,  who  have  gone  so  far  to- 
gether— and  now  have  wardrobes  to  suit  every  occasion. 


That  was  the  turning  point  in  the  life  of  Burr  Tillstrom. 
Because  of  Kukla,  the  puppet  who  twice  refused  to  leave, 
Burr's  term  at  the  University  of  Chicago  was  brief.  Kukla 
so  demanded  to  be  seen  that  Burr  gave  up  his  plan  to 
teach.  The  next  time  Toumanova  met  them — during  their 
vacation  in  1951 — she  was  starred  in  the  Paris  opera,  but 
Kukla  had  a  whole  company  of  his  own  and  Burr  Till- 
strom, that  erstwhile  schoolboy,  had  become,  thanks  to 
television,  the  most  famed  puppeteer  of  our  day. 

He  had  changed  .little  in  the  passing  years.  Time 
touches  him. lightly.  Blond,  gray-eyed,  wiry  in  build, 
and  now  in  his  mid-thirties,  Burr  Tillstrom  could  still 
tuck  a  notebook  under  his  arm  and  blend  into  a  bunch 
of  sophomores  on  any  campus.  More  important  to  Kukla, 
Fran  And  Ollie  is  the  fact  that  he  also  retains  intact  that 
youthful  ability  to  wonder  and  to  see  everyday  things  as 
though  he  were  discovering  them  for  the  first  time. 

Burr's  imagination  flows  freely,  his  interests  are  wide, 
and  he  seeks  new  information  wherever  he  goes.  While 
spending  summers  at  Nantucket,  he  gathered  a  fund  of 
whaling  lore  to  rival  that  of  the  oldest  inhabitant.  Going 
to  Ohio  State  University  to  receive  an  award  from  its 
Institute  for  Education  by  Radio-TV,  he  surprised  the 
educators  by  also  attending  their  lectures.  When  accept- 
ing their  trophy,  he  advised  (via  Oliver  J.  Dragon) :  "My 
suggestion  to  you  kids  is  to  dip  (Continued  on  page  91) 


Magic  Gift  of  Life 


Workshop:  Joe  Lockwood,  Burr  and  Fron  give  the  TV 
family  loving  care.  At  home:  Burr  and  his  mother  still 
share  the  mirth  and  music  he's  enjoyed  since  childhood. 


nose  and  a  quizzical  look— almost  a  self-portrait  of  Bun 
himself  in  one  of  his  old-man  roles.  He  had  intended  it 
for  another  puppeteer.  But,  when  he  had  it  packed,  ready 
to  ship,  he  had  so  hated  to  part  with  it  that  he  sent  an- 
other figure  instead.  Now,  because  it  was  his  favorite,  he 
would  give  it  to  his  adored  Toumanova. 

From  the  first  moment  that  she  saw  it,  he  wanted  it  to 
have  animation— so,  on  meeting  her,  he  directed  uose 
your  eyes.  I've  got  a  surprise."  In  a  moment,  he  wa 
ready.  "Now  open  them."  ,  ., 

As  the  ballerina  turned  and  looked,  the  figure  ™te°  "„ 
head  flirtatiously.  She  laughed  with  delight.  ««»• 
she  cried.  ?» 

Burr  liked  the  sound  of  the  word.  "What  does  "  "f'V, 
"It's  Russian  for  doll,"  Toumanova  explained.     "  = 
Greek  word,  too.   But  there's  more  meaning  I  just  c 
express.  It's  any  precious  little  "thing.  ,      jje 

The   puppet  had   found   a   name— and,    instantly, 
seemed  to  come  alive.  With  an  independence  ot  nis        > 
he  danced  and  strutted.  To  Burr,  it  was  strange,  ex 
and  a  little  terrifying.  He  realized  he  could  n°  f1"  J  on 
Kukla  away  than  he  could  give  away  the  right  na        ^ 
which  Kukla  rested.    The  creature  had  ceased  to 
puppet  and  had  become  part  of  him. 


{Continued) 


*M 


Trains  and  travel  are  no  novelty  today  to  Burr  and  his 
inseparable  companion,  Kukla,  who  have  gone  so  far  to- 
gether— and  now  have  wardrobes  to  suit  every  occasion. 


r  Tillslrom's  Kukla.  Fran  A 


„rfO/&.  ABC-TV,  M-F.  7  P.M.  EST- 


That  was  the  turning  point  in  the  life  of  Burr  Tillstrom. 
Because  of  Kukla,  the  puppet  who  twice  refused  to  leave, 
Burr's  term  at  the  University  of  Chicago  was  brief.  Kukla 
so  demanded  to  be  seen  that  Burr  gave  up  his  plan  to 
teach.  The  next  time  Toumanova  met  them— during  their 
vacation  in  1951— she  was  starred  in  the  Paris  opera,  but 
Kukla  had  a  whole  company  of  his  own  and  Burr  Till- 
strom, that  erstwhile  schoolboy,  had  become,  thanks  to 
television,  the  most  famed  puppeteer  of  our  day. 

He  had  changed  .little  in  the  passing  years.  Time 
touches  him. lightly.  Blond,  gray-eyed,  wiry  in  build, 
and  now  in  his  mid-thirties,  Burr  Tillstrom  could  still 
tuck  a  notebook  under  his  arm  and  blend  into  a  bunch 
of  sophomores  on  any  campus.  More  important  to  Kukla, 
Fran  And  Ollie  is  the  fact  that  he  also  retains  intact  that 
youthful  ability  to  wonder  and  to  see  everyday  things  as 
though  he  were  discovering  them  for  the  first  time. 

Burr's  imagination  flows  freely,  his  interests  are  wide, 
and  he  seeks  new' information  wherever  he  goes.  While 
spending  summers  at  Nantucket,  he  gathered  a  fund  ot 
whaling  lore  to  rival  that  of  the  oldest  inhabitant.  Going 
to  Ohio  State  University  to  receive  an  award  from  its 
Institute  for  Education  by  Radio-TV,  he  surprised  the 
educators  by  also  attending  their  lectures.  When  acc«Pt- 
ing  their  trophy,  he  advised  (via  Oliver  J.  Dragon) :  My 
suggestion  to  you  kids  is  to  dip  (Continued  on  page  »1J 


PATRICIA  BARRY'S 


As  with  Laurie,  it's  her  home  and  husband — plus  a  curly-headed  little  bit  of  dynamite 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


Patricia  Barry  was  twenty-five  on  the  day  of  this 
interview.  As  a  birthday  present  from  the  folks  who 
produce  First  Love,  the  TV  daytime  drama  in 
which  she  stars  as  Laurie  James,  she  had  been 
written  out  of  the  script.   This  gave  her  time  for  a 
perfectly  luxurious  morning  at  the  beauty  parlor,  having 
her  burnished  auburn  hair  shampooed  and  set,  and 
her  nails  done,  in  preparation  for  the  evening's 
celebration  with  Phil.    Phil  being  husband  Philip 
Barry,  Jr.,  TV  writer  and  producer. 

It  also  gave  Pat  some  extra  hours  at  home  with 
Miranda  Robin,  a  curly-haired  strawberry  blonde, 
three  years  old,  going  on  four,  who  was  wearing  bright 
blue  pajamas  which  matched  her  eyes  and,  despite 
an  overwhelming  desire  to  get  up  and  perform 
skips  and  hops,  was  (Continued  on  page    89) 


Patricia  Barry  is  Laurie  James  in  First  Love,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  4:15 
P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  (Mon.-Wed.-Fri.)  by  the  Andrew  Jergens  Co. 


Phil   Barry  has   not  only  an   armful   but  a   homeful   of 
dolls,  led  off  by  daughter  Miranda  Robin  and  wife  Pat. 


A  houseful  of  activities,  as  well.  Robin  begged,   "I   want  to  be  busy,  too!"  So  now  she  has  small  projects  of  her 
own.  But  Pat  still  cherishes  every  moment  and  interest  they  can  share — and  treasures  their  invaluable  maid,  Alleen. 


Bill's    faith    in    Nancy's    innocence    never    wavers,    even 
when  her  accusers  discover  her  fingerprints  on  the  gun. 


Himself  an  honest  and  simple  man,  Bill  Davidson 
has  always  felt  he  could  trust  his  fellow  man — 
or  woman — and  he  has  raised  his  daughter  Nancy 
to  believe  that  people  are  basically  good.  But  now, 
Bill  and  Nancy  find  the  calm  of  their  lives  in  Hartville 
shattered  because  they  have  placed  their  faith  in  the 
wrong  people.  Nancy's  very  life  is  threatened  as  trust 
has  been  repaid  by  vicious  trickery.  .  .  .  Bill  had  be- 
lieved in  Thelma  Nelson  and  in  the  happiness  which 
he — long  a  widower — might  find  in  marriage  with  her. 
It  was  beyond  his  wildest  imaginings  that  Thelma  was 
actually  under  orders  from  Mr.  Sinclair — the  "Big 
Boss"  of  the  Syndicate — to  marry  Bill  in  order  to 
obtain  the  uranium  which  he  does  not  even  know  lies 
beneath  his  land.  Nancy,  sensing  some  unknown  evil 
in  Thelma,  had  gone  to  confront  her.  In  the  tussle  that 
followed,  Thelma  was  shot — by  a  gunman  whom  the 
Syndicate  had  assigned  to  follow  Nancy!  ...  To  her 
horror,  Nancy  is  accused  of  the  murder.  Bewildered, 
she  accepts  the  friendship  offered  her  by  Rose  Delmar, 
who  has  actually  been  sent  by  Mr.  Sinclair  to  help 
convict  her.  Nancy  even  goes  so  far  as  to  write  a  letter 
recommending  Rose  for  a  job,  completely  unaware  of 
the  Syndicate's  schemes  to  use  this  sample  of  her 
handwriting  against  her.  .  .  .  Meanwhile,  seemingly 
from  out  of  nowhere,  Peter  Dyke  Hampton  arrives  to 
defend  Nancy.  Once  a  brilliant  trial  lawyer,  Peter 
retired  several  years  ago  and  only  Mrs.  McTavish,  his 
housekeeper,  knows  and  understands  the  reason. 
Nancy's  husband,  lawyer  Kerry  Donovan,  is  hurt  and 
angry  at  not  being  allowed  to  defend  his  own  wife. 
With  bitter  jealousy,  he  imagines  more  than  an  attor- 
ney-client relationship  between  Nancy  and  the  sophis- 
ticated Peter  Hampton.  .  .  .  Bill  Davidson  has  been 


JUST 

PLAIN 

BILL 


Pretending  to  be  her  friend,   Rose  tricks  Nancy  into  writing  a 
letter  which  she  plans  +o  use  later  to  help  prove  Nancy's  guilt. 


duped  by  the  Syndicate,  yet  he  has  an  innate  wisdom. 
Will  he  be  able  to  draw  from  this  wisdom  to  sort  out 
the  confused  emotions  of  Nancy,  Kerry  and  Peter? 
And  will  he  find  a  way  to  break  through  the  mesh  of 
plots  woven  against  them,  to  clear  Nancy's  name,  and 
re-create  for  all  of  them  the  simple,  calm  life  that  has 
always  been  the  dream  of  Just  Plain  Bill? 


Inst  Plain  BUI,  M-F,  NBC  Radio,  5  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Miles  Laboratories,  Inc.,  for  Alka-Seltzer.  Pictured  on  opposite  page:  Arthur 
Hughet  u  Bill  Davidson,  James  Meighan  as  Kerry  Donovan,    \bove:  Toni  Darnay  as  Nancy  Donovan,  Charita  Bauer  as  Rose  Delmar. 


44 


Jealous  and  angry,  Kerry  argues  that  he,  and  not  Peter  Hampton,  should  defend  his  wife  Nancy  in  her  trial  for  murder. 
Bill  believes  that  only  Peter  Hampton  can  save  Nancy,    but  he  now  sees  a  threat  to  her  marriage,  as  well  as  her  life. 


45 


Hard  to  catch  the  Rockwells  in  a  quiet,  "formal" 
pose,  but  there  they  are — on  the  opposite  page — with 
Mama  Betts  in  the  center,  flanked  by  Bobby,  Jr.  and 
Jeff,  Greg  on  her  lap,  Susie  and  Papa  Bob  behind  her. 


Miss  Brooks'  Dreamboat 


Bob  kisses  daughter  Susie  goodbye,  waves  to   his  wife 
and  sons,  then  it's  off  to  work — as  "Bachelor"  Boynton. 


Teacher  may  think  he's  a  bachelor, 
but  he's  happily  wed — to  Mrs.  Bob 
Rockwell- — and  very  much  a  father 

By  GORDON  BUDGE 


How  many  bachelors  have  four  children? 
Here's  one  who  does:   He's  brown-haired, 
blue-eyed,  six-foot,  two-inch  Bob 
Rockwell,  Eve  Arden's  bachelor  boy  friend  on 
Our  Miss  Brooks.  In  real  life,  "Bachelor  Bob" — 
as  he's  known  on  the  set — is  married  to  the 
lovely  Betts  Weiss,  and  their  family  of  four 
(Susie,  10;  Bob,  Jr.,  8;  Jeff,  4;  Gregory,  8 
months)  is  a  brood  of  happy,  healthy  children 
that  would  make  any  bachelor  proud! 

Bob's  family  life  began  with  his  meeting, 
courtship,  and  marriage  to  Betts  in  1942.    Bob 
was  in  his  third  year  at  the  Pasadena  Playhouse, 
Betts  a  freshman.   (Continued  on  page    85) 

Robert  Rockell  is  Phillip  Boynton  on  Our  Miss  Brooks — 
seen  over  CBS-TV,  Fri.,  9:30  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by 
General  Foods  Corp. — and  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Sun.,  8 
P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Anacin  and  The  Toni  Company. 


- — 


*% 


s? 


*  'ffv 


v^m 


*-*-*> 


V 


*m0" 


i! 


I 


9*v 


SCOUTS  RiA. 


.     4 


\ 


X 

I. 


Every  home  should  have  one 


A  Herb  Shriner  we  mean.  But  it 
takes  a  lot  of  house  to  hold  Herb,  his 
family — and  all  his  collections! 

By  PHILIP  CHAPMAN 


Movies  are  only  one  of  Herb's  many  hobbies,  for  which  his  wife 
Pixie  couldn't  find  storage  room — until  they  moved  to  the  country. 


I  hen  you  ask  Herb  Shriner  how  things 
fare  going,  now  that  his  twin  baby 
boys  are  up  and  around — not  to 
mention  in  full  cry — he's  apt  to  say,  in 
that  dubious,  dry  voice,  "Well,  no  two 
ways  about  it,  I'm  a  lot  relieved  now  that 
I  can  tell  'em  apart.    I  marked  one  of 
the  cribs  the  other  day,  and  it  makes 
all  the  difference. 

"They're  a  lot  more  fun,  now  that 
we've  got  the  diaper  service.   Before,  we 
just  took  care  of  that  the  way  we  did 
all  our  laundry — made  up  a  parcel,  you 
know,  and  mailed  it  home  to  the  folks 
in  Indiana.  .  .  .  Got  so  we  had  quite 
a  bundle,  with  all  those  diapers  in. 

"Funny  thing,  it  was  the  postman  put 
us  onto  this  diaper  service.  .  .  ." 

That's  the  professional  Mr.  Shriner, 
humorist  from  Hoosierland,   making   the 
most  of  his  opportunity.   The  at-home 
Mr.  Shriner,  father  and  husband,  is 
the  one  we're  going  to  tell  about  now. 

The  last  time  TV  Radio  Mirror  printed 
a  story  about  Herb,  the  twins  had  just 
happened  to  him  and  Pixie — and  their 
little  girl,  "Indy"   (short  for  "Indiana")— 
and  he  was  still  goggle-eyed.  He  said 
at  the  time  that,  when  the  doctor  brought 
them  out,  he  thought  he  was  being 
offered  his  choice.  That  was  the  humorist 
talking.  He  also  said,  "Thank  heaven, 
I  was  on  Tioo  For  The  Money  and  not 
We  The  People." 

Since  that  story  was  published,  the 
twins,  Kin   (named  after  the  Indiana 
humorist,  Kin  Hubbard)  and  Will  (named 
after  Will  Rogers),  have  changed  not 
only  the  entire  present  life  of  the 
Shriners — professionally  and  privately — 
but  their  future  as  well. 

It  all  began  a  few  weeks  after  Pixie 
and  the  twins  came  home  from  the 
hospital,  to  the  apartment  off  Central 
Park  in  New  York  which  Herb  and  Pixie 
had  decided  would  be  just  large  enough 
(with  some  squeezing)  for  a  second 
child.    Although  it  was  by  any  standards 
a  large  apartment,  it  must  be  remem- 
bered that  Herb  has  many  "babies"  of 
his  own  besides  the  ones  that  bear 
his  name — record  collections,  collections 
of  miniature  antique  automobiles, 
collections  of  electronic  gadgets.  .  .  . 


Continued 


► 


H 


^   <** 


/. 


* 


£3^ 


Growing  family:  Herb  Shriner  with  twin  sons  Kin  (named  for  Hoosier  humorist  Kin  Hubbard)  and  Will  (for  Will 
Rogers),  daughter  "Indy"  (for  guess-what-state),  and  pretty  Pixie  (whose  name  fits  like  the  charm  she  has). 


49 


Every  home  should  have  one 


(Continued) 


Only  Herb  knows  the  meaning  of  many  items  in  his  collections 
(and  sometimes  Pixie  wonders  if  he  does,  himself).  But  they  can 
all  enjoy  the  sunshine  and  fresh  air  surrounding  their  "new" 
home — twins  Kin  and  Will,  Pixie,  Indy,  and  picture-taking  papa. 


Herb  came  home  one  afternoon,  bringing 
with  him  four  gentlemen  and  one  young  lady 
— all  lugging  briefcases  and  serious  do-it-now 
expressions — with  the  purpose  in  mind  of  get- 
ting a  little  business  done.  The  studio  had  been 
noisy  and  crowded,  and  Herb  had  suggested, 
"Let's  go  to  my  place.  It's  close  to  here  and 
quiet,  and  we  can  clean  all  this  up  in  an  hour 
or  two." 

During  this  time  he  proposed  to  clear  a  new 
script,  work  out  some  sponsor  problems,  con- 
sider a  press  campaign,  and  outline  a  prospect- 
ive tour.  He  used  his  key  to  his  front  door — 
and  opened  it  to  bedlam. 

For  various  reasons,  every  room  in  the 
apartment  except  the  back  bathroom  was  occu- 
pied. His  daughter  Indy,  blessed  (or  cursed, 
as  the  case  may  be)  with  her  father's  own 
general  inquisitiveness,  had  tampered  with 
some  of  the  electronic  gadgets,  including — and 
not  for  the  first  time — the  inter-room  phone 
system.  Thus,  electricians  were  swarming 
everywhere,  trying  to  stop  bells  from  ringing 
and  sparks  from  flying. 

The  kitchen  was  busy  with  preparations  for 
a  dinner  party  scheduled  by  an  optimistic  Pixie 
for  eight  that  night.  One  of  the  twins  had 
chosen  this  time  to  burst  into  a  rash  and  a 
fever,  which  meant  the  doctor  was  examining 
him  in  one  room  while  the  other  baby  boy  and 
nurse  were  segregated  in  the  living  room. 

Herb  lined  up  his  business  guests  on  the  edge 
of  the  bathtub,  he  himself  took  the  only  other 
seat  available,  and  they  had  talked  just  five  min- 
utes— when  a  plumber  arrived.  He'd  been  called 
the  day  before,  and  wouldn't  be  available  for 
another  three  days. 

Herb  Shriner  stars  in  Two  For  The  Money,  as  simulcast 
over  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Sat.,  9  P.M.  EST.  Program 
is  sponsored  by  P.  Lorillard  Co.  for  Old  Gold  Cigarettes. 


50 


Herb  and  Indy  head  for  market  in  a  King  Midget — the  kind  of  runabout  that  comes  in  a  kit,  assemble-it-yourself. 


Mr.  Shriner  arose,  and  departed  with  his  associates  for 
the  nearest  cafe,  where  they  ordered  Cokes  and  tried  to 
work  in  the  din  of  the  cocktail  hour.  When  he  got  home 
— just  in  time  to  change  for  dinner — the  apartment  was 
quiet  and  in  seeming  order.  But  now  he  knew.  The 
Shriners  had  outgrown  this  house,  in  more  ways  than  one. 

Much  later,  in  the  early  hours  after  all  the  guests  had 
gone  home,  and  Herb  and  Pixie  were  wandering  around 
collecting  ashtrays,  he  said,  "Better  have  a  talk. 
Scrambled  eggs?" 


"If  you'll  make  them,"  Pixie  responded.  "Frankly,  I've 
had  it." 

A  few  minutes  later,  they  sat  wearily  opposite  each 
other  at  the  kitchen  table.  "It  isn't  just  doing  something 
about  the  situation  for  now,"  Herb  said.  "That's  what 
we've  always  done — and,  a  year  later,  it  had  to  be  done 
all  over  again.  It  might  be  different  if  there  had  been 
just  one  baby,  maybe  another  little  girl.  But  with  two 
boys — both  of  them  probably  grown  up  before  we  know 
it — and  everything  else  expanding  (Continued  on  page  87) 


Remodeling,  of  course,  found  our  Mr.  Fixit  in  seventh  heaven — a  constructive  activity  of  which  Pixie  very  much 
approved.  She  also  gets  a  kick  out  of  Herb's  enthusiasm  for  skin-diving,  mainly  because  of  the  "simple"  equipment. 


Every  home  should  have  one 


(Continued) 


Only  Herb  knows  the  meaning  of  many  items  in  his  collections 
(and  sometimes  Pixie  wonders  if  he  does,  himself).  But  they  can 
all  enjoy  the  sunshine  and  fresh  air  surrounding  their  "new" 
home—twins  Kin  and  Will,  Pixie,  Indy,  and  picture-taking  papa. 


Herb  came  home  one  afternoon,  bringing 
with  him  four  gentlemen  and  one  young  lady 
—all  lugging  briefcases  and  serious  do-it-now 
expressions— with  the  purpose  in  mind  of  get- 
ting a  little  business  done.  The  studio  had  been 
noisy  and  crowded,  and  Herb  had  suggested, 
"Let's  go  to  my  place.  It's  close  to  here  and 
quiet,  and  we  can  clean  all  this  up  in  an  hour 

During  this  time  he  proposed  to  clear  a  new 
script,  work  out  some  sponsor  problems,  con- 
sider a  press  campaign,  and  outline  a  prospect- 
ive tour.  He  used  his  key  to  his  front  door— 
and  opened  it  to  bedlam. 

For  various  reasons,  every  room  in  the 
apartment  except  the  back  bathroom  was  occu- 
pied. His  daughter  Indy,  blessed  (or  cursed, 
as  the  case  may  be)  with  her  father's  own 
general  inquisitiveness,  had  tampered  with 
some  of  the  electronic  gadgets,  including— and 
not  for  the  first  time— the  inter-room  phone 
system.  Thus,  electricians  were  swarming 
everywhere,  trying  to  stop  bells  from  ringing 
and  sparks  from  flying. 

The  kitchen  was  busy  with  preparations  for 
a  dinner  party  scheduled  by  an  optimistic  Pixie 
for  eight  that  night.  One  of  the  twins  had 
chosen  this  time  to  burst  into  a  rash  and  a 
fever,  which  meant  the  doctor  was  examining 
him  in  one  room  while  the  other  baby  boy  and 
nurse  were  segregated  in  the  living  room. 

Herb  lined  up  his  business  guests  on  the  edge 
of  the  bathtub,  he  himself  took  the  only  other 
seat  available,  and  they  had  talked  just  five  min- 
utes—when a  plumber  arrived.  He'd  been  called 
the  day  before,  and  wouldn't  be  available  for 
another  three  days. 

Herb  Shriner  stars  in  Two  For  The  Money,  as  simulcast 
over  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Sat.,  9  P.M.  EST.  Program 
is  sponsored  by  P.  LorUlard  Co.  for  Old  Gold  Cigarettes. 


Herb  and  Indy  head  for  market  in  a  King  Midget — the  kind  of  runabout  that  comes  in  a  kit,  assemble-it-yourself. 


Mr.  Shriner  arose,  and  departed  with  his  associates  for 
the  nearest  cafe,  where  they  ordered  Cokes  and  tried  to 
work  in  the  din  of  the  cocktail  hour.  When  he  got  home 
—just  in  time  to  change  for  dinner — the  apartment  was 
quiet  and  in  seeming  order.  But  now  he  knew.  The 
Shriners  had  outgrown  this  house,  in  more  ways  than  one. 

Much  later,  in  the  early  hours  after  all  the  guests  had 
gone  home,  and  Herb  and  Pixie  were  wandering  around 
collecting  ashtrays,  he  said,  "Better  have  a  talk. 
Scrambled  eggs?" 


"If  you'll  make  them,"  Pixie  responded.  "Frankly,  I've 
had  it." 

A  few  minutes  later,  they  sat  wearily  opposite  each 
other  at  the  kitchen  table.  "It  isn't  just  doing  something 
about  the  situation  for  now,"  Herb  said.  "That's  what 
we've  always  done — and,  a  year  later,  it  had  to  be  done 
all  over  again.  It  might  be  different  if  there  had  been 
just  one  baby,  maybe  another  little  girl.  But  with  two 
boys — both  of  them  probably  grown  up  before  we  know 
it — and  everything  else  expanding  (Continued  on  page  87) 


Remodeling,  of  course,  found  our  Mr.  Fixit  in  seventh  heaven — a  constructive  activity  of  which  Pixie  very  much 
approved.  She  also  gets  a  kick  out  of  Herb's  enthusiasm  for  skin-diving,  mainly  because  of  the  "simple"  equipment. 


!S^ 


sr?< 


v^ 


^ 


SING  AND   BE    HAPPY 


Success  on  Your  Hit  Parade  can't 
change  Gisele  MacKenzie,  who 
is  always  a  sweetheart — naturally 

By  ERNST  JACOBI 


The  week  "Vaya  con  Dios"  jumped  into  the  number- 
one  spot  on  Your  Hit  Parade,  about  a  year  ago, 
the  production  called  for  Gisele  MacKenzie  to 
sing  the  ballad  while  holding  a  horse  by  its  reins. 
Everything  had  gone  fine  during  rehearsals,  but  at 
performance  time  the  animal  was  experiencing  a  case 
of  acute  stagefright  and  proceeded  to  clobber  Gisele 
with  its  muzzle  against  the  side  of  her  face.    As 
viewed  by  the  audience,  it  looked  like  a  harmless 
display  of  equine  affection  and  high  spirits — especially 
since  Miss  MacKenzie  didn't  move  a  muscle  or  miss 
a  beat — but  it  would  be  gross  exaggeration  to  say 
that  she  enjoyed  it. 

"I  was  scared  to  death,"  she  recalls.    "The  actor 
to  whom  I  was  singing  was  holding  his  sides, 
trying  to  keep  from  bursting  out  laughing,  but  that 
clobbering  really  hurt." 

The  incident,  aside  from  serving  to  illustrate  her 
poise  and  innate  good  nature,  is  notable  for 
representing  what  is  probably  the  only  occasion  in 
recent  years  when  Miss  MacKenzie  was  somewhat 
less  than  perfectly  happy  about  any  phase  or 
circumstance  of  her  career. 

Endowed  with  a  sparkling,  sunny  temperament  on 
camera  or  off,  she  loves  to   (Continued  on  page  96) 


The    popular    singer's    best    pals    are    long-haired — 
dachshunds:  Wolfie  at  left;  Bruna  and  Wolfie,  below. 


Canadian-born    Gisele    loves   to    cook,    finds 
that  preparing  dinner's  the  best  way  to  relax. 


Bob  Shurrleworth — now  her  manager — was  the 
first   to    recognize    Gisele's    gift   for   singing. 


Gisele  MacKenzie  sings  on  Your  Hit  Parade.  NBC-TV. 
Sat.,  10:30  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Lucky  Strike 
Cigarettes,  Richard  Hudnut  Quick  Home  Permanent. 


53 


^^mmm 


'%**W" 


Tony  Martin  and  sons  are  having  a 
wonderful  boyhood  together,  with 
Cyd  Charisse  as  loving  cheerleader 


Tony,  Jr.  has  vast  admiration 
for  Nicky's  school  uniform  and 
athletic  skill.  The  Martin  men- 
folk "play  ball,"  every  chance 
they  get — and  it's  hard  to  tell 
which    Tony    enjoys    it   the    most! 


Cyd    and    Tony    delight    millions    with   their   talents,    but   their 
own  favorite  roles  are  as  parents  of  young  Tony,  Jr.  and  Nicky. 


ing  a  Father  is  Fun 


By  BOB  WELLES 


Tony  Martin  and  his  boy,  Nicky,  were  standing 
on  the  front  porch  preparing  for  a  game  of 
catch.  Tony  was  teaching  Nicky  how  to  pitch 
a  baseball. 

"By  the  way,"  said  Tony,  "you're  going  to  have 
a  baby  brother." 

Nicky,  Cyd  Charisse's  eight-year-old  son  by  a 
former  marriage,  looked  up  at  Tony  with  a  that's  - 


interesting-tell-me-more  look  in  his  eyes.  "No 
kiddin',"  he  said.   "When?" 

"Oh,  in  a  few  months,"  said  Tony. 

"Well,  gee!"  said  Nick.  "You  scared  me.  For  a 
second  there  I  thought  we  weren't  going  to  have 
time  for  our  game!" 

The  star  of  NBC-TV's  Tony  Martin  Show  is  also 
the  Ail-American  Father.  (Continued  on  page    83) 


The  Tony  Martin  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Mon.,  7:30  P.M.  EST,  for  Bobbi  Home  Permanent,  White  Rain,  Tame  Creme  Rinse. 


55 


I.  At  first,  Kothy  was  flattered  when  Dr.  Jim  Kelly  showed  his  interest  in  her.  After  all,  he  was  the  roommate  of  her 
former  husband,  Dr.  Dick  Grant — and  that  should  show  Dick  something!  But,  when  Jim  proposes  and  offers  her  a  ring, 
Kathy  refuses  as  gently  as  possible.  How  long  can  she  go  on  playing  with  men's  hearts,  like  an  irresponsible  child? 


56 


To  meta  and  joe  Roberts,  love  and  trust 
have  been  a  beacon  leading  to  a  haven  all 
their  own  ...  a  guiding  light  as  sure  and 
steady  as  the  "beam"  which  brings  an  aviator 
safely  through  the  stormiest  weather,  to  a 
happy  landing  at  home  field.  But  Meta  was 
saddened  as  she  thought  of  those  nearest  and 
dearest  to  them,  for  whom  there  seemed  to  be 
no  inner  guiding  light  .  .  .  two  charming  young 
people  who  had  lost  their  way,  knowing  so 
little  of  their  own  hearts,  uncertain  whom 
to  trust  and  where  to  turn  for  the  abiding 
love  which  every  man  and  woman  needs.  Kathy, 
Joe's  lovely,  impetuous  daughter.  Dick  Grant, 
the  youthful  but  brilliant  doctor.  ...  At 
that  moment,  Meta  thought  despairingly,  Dick 
Grant  seemed  lost  indeed — Dick,  who  had 
always  been  so  competent,  so  dependable,  but 
who  had  now  disappeared  from  Los  Angeles 
without  a  trace!  .  .  .  Kathy  herself  was  at  home 
now  with  Meta  and  Joe,  home  with  her  little 
girl,  Robin  Lang.  But  still — Meta  sighed — not 
at  home  with  her  own  spirit.  Young  as  Kathy 
was,  there  had  been  few  credit  entries 
in  her  ledger  of  life  .  .  .and  the  sum  of  debits 
had  been  large.  Two  broken  marriages.  Two 
young  men  whose  lives  had  been  twisted 
and  torn  to  make  Kathy  happy — without 
bringing  any  lasting  happiness  to  Kathy.  First, 
there  had  been  Bob  Lang,  whom  she  had 
secretly  wed  on  the  rebound  from  her  childhood 
infatuation  for  the  boy  next  door  .  .  .  Bob 
Lang,  who  had  died  before  their  marriage  was 
made  public — and  before  anyone  knew 
a  child  was  on  the  way.  Then  there  had  been 
Dr.  Dick  Grant — the  "boy  next  door,"  now 
grown  up  and  on  the  threshold  of  a  promising 
career  in  medicine.  Kathy  had  married  Dick 
without  telling  him  of  her  previous  elopement 
— or  the  baby  to  come — and,  after  a  brief, 
stormy  life  together,  Dick  had  had  their 
marriage  annulled.  .  .  .  Now,  Meta  sighed 


See   Next   Page- 


2.  Jim's  attentions  to.  Kathy,  combined  with  intrigues 
at  the  hospital,  bring  on  a  crisis  for  Dr.  Dick  Grant. 
He  flees  to  New  York,  where  he  lives  in  lonely  despair. 


To  meta  and  joe  Roberts,  love  and  trust 
have  been  a  beacon  leading  to  a  haven  all 
their  own  ...  a  guiding  light  as  sure  and 
steady  as  the  "beam"  which  brings  an  aviator 
safely  through  the  stormiest  weather,  to  a 
happy  landing  at  home  field.  But  Meta  was 
saddened  as  she  thought  of  those  nearest  and 
dearest  to  them,  for  whom  there  seemed  to  be 
no  inner  guiding  light  .  .  .  two  charming  young 
people  who  had  lost  their  way,  knowing  so 
little  of  their  own  hearts,  uncertain  whom 
to  trust  and  where  to  turn  for  the  abiding 
love  which  every  man  and  woman  needs.  Kathy, 
Joe's  lovely,  impetuous  daughter.  Dick  Grant, 
the  youthful  but  brilliant  doctor.  ...  At 
that  moment,  Meta  thought  despairingly,  Dick 
Grant  seemed  lost  indeed — Dick,  who  had 
always  been  so  competent,  so  dependable,  but 
who  had  now  disappeared  from  Los  Angeles 
without  a  trace!  .  .  .  Kathy  herself  was  at  home 
now  with  Meta  and  Joe,  home  with  her  little 
girl,  Robin  Lang.  But  still — Meta  sighed— not 
at  home  with  her  own  spirit.  Young  as  Kathy 
was,  there  had  been  few  credit  entries 
in  her  ledger  of  life  .  .  .  and  the  sum  of  debits 
had  been  large.  Two  broken  marriages.  Two 
young  men  whose  lives  had  been  twisted 
and  torn  to  make  Kathy  happy — without 
bringing  any  lasting  happiness  to  Kathy.  First, 
there  had  been  Bob  Lang,  whom  she  had 
secretly  wed  on  the  rebound  from  her  childhood 
infatuation  for  the  boy  next  door  .  .  .  Bob 
Lang,  who  had  died  before  their  marriage  was 
made  public — and  before  anyone  knew 
a  child  was  on  the  way.  Then  there  had  been 
Dr.  Dick  Grant— the  "boy  next  door,"  now 
grown  up  and  on  the  threshold  of  a  promising 
career  in  medicine.  Kathy  had  married  Dick 
without  telling  him  of  her  previous  elopement 
— or  the  baby  to  come — and,  after  a  brief, 
stormy  life  together,  Dick  had  had  their 
marriage  annulled.  .  .  .  Now,  Meta  sighed 


I.  At  first,  Kothy  was  flattered  when  Dr.  Jim  Kelly  showed  his  interest  in  her.  After  all,  he  was  the  roommate  of  her 
former  husband,  Dr.  Dick  Grant— and  that  should  show  Dick  something!  But,  when  Jim  proposes  and  offers  her  a  ring, 
Kathy  refuses  as  gently  as  possible.  How  long  can  she  go  on  playing  with  men's  hearts,  like  an  irresponsible  child? 


See  Xext.  Page > 

2.  Jim's  attentions  to  Kathy,  combined  with  intrigues 
at  the  hospital,  bring  on  a  crisis  for  Dr.  Dick  Grant. 
He  flees  to  New  York,  where  he  lives  in  lonely  despair. 


3.  Dick's  disappearance  fits  into  the  plans  of  Dr.  Bart 
Thompson,  who  calls  a  young  doctor  in  whom  he  takes 
special  interest — offering  him  Dick's  place  at  the  hospital. 

to  herself,  there  was  a  third  man.  But,  this  time,  Meta 
suspected  that  Kathy  had  begun  to  learn  her  lesson,  per- 
haps even  to  grow  up  a  little.  At  first,  out  of  pride  and 
pique,  Kathy  had  encouraged  the  attentions  of  Dick's 
roommate,  Dr.  Jim  Kelly.  Then  Jim  had  proved  how 
serious  his  intentions  were,  had  even  offered  Kathy  a 
ring  and  begged  her  to  set  the  date  for  their  wedding. 
Frightened —  perhaps  realizing  how  similar  this  situation 
was  to  the  time  when  she  had  married  Bob  Lang  with- 
out really  loving  him — Kathy  had  refused.  .  .  .  But  how 
much,  Meta  wondered,  did  Jim's  proposal,  his  obvious 
love  for  Kathy,  have  to  do  with  Dick's  subsequent  dis- 
appearance? And  how  much  had  that  disappearance 
been  influenced  by  situations  at  the  hospital?  .  .  .  Joe 
Roberts  was  even  now  trying  to  solve  these  problems,  as 
he  wrote  the  story  for  his  paper,  the  City  Times — 
working  always  to  influence  public  opinion  in  Dick's 
favor,  to  show  the  world  how  much  it  needed  doctors  of 
this  caliber,  and  to  forestall  the  unfavorable  publicity 
Dick's  disappearance  was  bound  to  create.  .  .  .  But  there 


Pictured  here,  as  seen  and  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Kathy  Lang Susan  Douglas 

Dr.  Dick  Grant James  Lipton 

Dr.  Jim  Kelly Paul  Potter 

Dr.  Bart  Thompson Barry  Thomson 

Meta  Roberts Ellen  Demming 

Joe  Roberts Herb  Nelson 

The    Guiding    Light,    M-F,    CBS-TV,    12:45    P.M.    EST— CBS 
Radio,    1 :45    P.M. — for    Duz,    Ivory    Soap,    and    Ivory    Flakes. 


(Continued) 


4.  Joe  Roberts — Kathy's  father  and  an  ace  newspaper- 
man— calls  on  Dr.  Thompson,  vainly  seeking  information 
which   could   explain   why   Dick  fled   or  where   he  went. 

was  so  much  that  neither  Joe  nor  Meta  could  guess, 
with  the  little  knowledge  they  already  had.  Few  people 
knew — not  even  John  himself — that  Dr.  John  Brooks  was 
the  son  of  Dr.  Bart  Thompson  of  the  Cedars  Hospital 
.  .  .  and  that  Dr.  Thompson  would  stop  at  nothing  to 
get  John  comfortably  installed  in  Dick's  place  at  the 
hospital!  He  had  done  his  best  to  make  Dick's  situation 
intolerable  .  .  .  and  Dick — torn  between  these  pressures 
within  the  profession  he  loved  and  the  knowledge  that 
his  best  friend,  Jim,  hoped  to  marry  the  woman  he 
himself  had  loved — had  "frozen"  at  the  operating  table 
one  fateful  day.  Sick  with  shame,  depressed  almost 
beyond  endurance,  he  had  fled.  .  .  .  Now  Dick  sits  alone 
and  despairing  in  a  dingy  hotel  room  in  New  York,  a 
continent  away  from  those  who  want  so  much  to  help 
him.  Will  they  find  Dick — before  it  is  too  late?  Can  his 
powers  of  healing  be  saved  for  the  good  of  the  world — 
and  himself?  And  what  of  Kathy  and  Jim  and  their 
individual  search  for  love  and  trust  and  happiness?  How 
can  these  three  young  people  find  the  guiding  light 
which  Joe  and  Meta  Roberts  know  so  well? 


58 


<i 


^f 


f 


■# 


^SSBI* 


-W      ^ 


> 


5.  Joe  and  his  wife  Meta  watch  sympathetically  as  Kathy  struggles  with  the  problems  she  has  never  before  been  willing 
to  face.  Is  there  something  she  could  do  to  help  Dick?  And  what  about  Jim?  If  only  she  could  find  the  "guiding  light" 
which  has  always  led  Joe  and  Meta  so  unerringly  to  the  happiness  which  comes  when  two  people  love  and  trust  each  other! 


59 


Peg's  husband  and  daughter  Astrid  Elise  make  friends  with  "the  other  man"  in  Mother's  TV  life — Alan  (Albert)  Bunce. 


LUCK'S  REALLY  A  LADY 


60 


As  Ethel,    Peg   knows   her  scripts   by  heart.   She  writes  them! 


By  ED  MEYERSON 

Once  a  week,  in  many  an  American  living  room, 
Mom  and  Pop  try  to  beat  the  kids  to  the  TV  set  so 
they  can  watch  Ethel  And  Albert — a  situation-comedy 
series  about  the  typical  married  couple.  This  is  often 
the  signal  for  the  children  to  leave  the  room.  It  isn't  that 
they  don't  enjoy  the  program,  too.   It's  just  the  aggravating 
way  their  own  parents  sit  there,  laughing  their  heads 
off — as  though  it  were  all  some  private  joke  which 
no  one  else  could  possibly  understand. 

Actually,  Mom  and  Pop  are  laughing  at  themselves,  for  the 
very  same  situation  that  Ethel  and  Albert  are  tangled 
up  in — well,  it  happened  to  them  once,  too.  Only,  judging 
by  the  show's  popularity  rating,  the  joke  isn't  so  private.  It's 
shared  by  millions  of  other  "typical  married  couples,"  all 
along  the  NBC-TV  network.  Which  only  goes  to  prove 
that,  when  it  comes  to  comedy,  the  thing  people  most  enjoy 
seeing  on  TV  is — themselves.  {Continued  on  page  75) 


Ethel  And  Albert's  Peg  Lynch 

knows  you  don't  have  to  live  "just 

two  feet  away  from  happiness" 


Of   her  three    names,    Peg's    favorite    is    Mrs. 
Odd   Knut  Ronning,   real-life  wife  and  mother. 

The  Ronning  home  in  Connecticut  is  the  heaven-on-earth  which  Peg  always  believed  she'd  find  someday — if  she  tried. 


Jk  3 


:*f 


TM 


*» 


61 


ord  Henry 
discovers  America 


Wajhington  Square  Arch   is  the   hub  of  the   colorful 
port   of   New   York   that   claims   Alastair's   affections. 


Alastair  Duncan  is  Lord  Henry  Brinthrope  in  Our  Gal  Sunday, 
CBS  Radio,  M-F,  12:45  P.M.  EST,  for  Anacin  and  Chef  Boyar- 
dee.  He  is  Stanley  Warrick  on  Stella  Dallas,  NBC  Radio,  M-F, 
4:15  P.M.  EST,  for  Phillips'  Milk  of  Magnesia,  VIV  Lipstick. 


Alastair  Duncan  traveled  far  before 

he  fell  in  love  with  a  girl  named 

Sunday- — and  a  city  called  New  York 

By  ALICE  FRANCIS 

When  a  man  falls  in  love,  he  begins  to 
think  about  settling  down,"  Alastair 
Duncan  was  saying.    "At  last,  this 
has  happened  to  me.    I — who,  until  now,  have 
been  content  to  roam  the  world  with  a 
suitcase  and  a  stick  of  greasepaint — am  now 
in  love.  But  with  a  city,  not  a  girl — at  least 
not  yet!    Wanting  to  settle  down  for  a  long 
time,  with  New  York." 

This  is  quite  the  way  you  would  expect  Lord 
Henry  Brinthrope  to  feel  about  America. 
And  Alastair  is  one-and-the-same  with  Lord 
Henry  of  the  radio  drama,  Our  Gal  Sunday. 
A  difference  between  the  two  men  is  that 
Lord  Henry  came  to  our  shores  and  settled  in  a 
small  Virginia  community,  while  Alastair  is 
enchanted  with  the  excitements  of  the  hig 
city,  the  theaters  and  {Continued  on  page  80) 


When    English    friends    come    to   visit,    Alastair 
guides  them  to  unusual  out-of-the-way  art  shops. 


62 


New  Yprk  spells  glamour  for  Alastair,  who  reads  up  on   opera   before  an  evening  at  the   "Met." 


Antique  guns  in  a  Greenwich  Village  curiosity  shop 
remind  him  of  his  own  hunting  collection  in  England. 


Alastair's    a    foreign    food    fancier,    and    often 
returns  to  sample  the  Italian  menu  at  Monte's. 


ord  Henry 
discovers  America 


Waihington  Square  Areh  is  the  hub  of  the  colorful 
part  of  New  York  that  claims  Alastair's  affections. 


Alastair  Duncan  is  Lord  Henry  Brinlhrope  in  Our  Gal  Sunday 
CBS  Radio.  M-F,  IZ:«  P.M.  EST,  (or  Anocin  and  Chef  Boyat- 
dee.  He  is  Stanley  Warrick  on  Stella  Dallas,  NBC  Radio  M-F 
4:15  P.M.  EST,  (or  Phillips'  Milk  of  Magnesia,  VIV  Lipstirk.' 


Alastair  Duncan  traveled  far  before 

he  fell  in  love  with  a  girl  named 

Sunday — and  a  city  called  New  York 

By  ALICE  FRANCIS 

When  a  man  falls  in  love,  he  begins  to 
think  about  settling  down,"  Alastair 
Duncan  was  saying,    "At  last,  this 
has  happened  to  me.   I — who,  until  now,  have 
been  content  to  roam  the  world  with  a 
suitcase  and  a  stick  of  greasepaint — am  now 
in  love.  But  with  a  city,  not  a  girl — at  least 
not  yet!   Wanting  to  settle  down  for  a  long 
time,  with  New  York." 

This  is  quite  the  way  you  would  expect  Lord 
Henry  Brinthrope  to  feel  about  America. 
And  Alastair  is  one-and-the-same  with  Lord 
Henry  of  the  radio  drama,  Out  Gal  Sunday. 
A  difference  between  the  two  men  is  that 
Lord  Henry  came  to  our  shores  and  settled  in  a 
small  Virginia  community,  while  Alastair  is 
enchanted  with  the  excitements  of  the  big 
city,  the  theaters  and  (Continued  on  page  80) 


When    English   friends   come   to   visit,    Alastair 
guides  them  to  unusual  out-of-the-way  art  shops. 


New  York  spells  glamour  for  Alastair,  who  reads  u 


p  on  opera   before  an  evening  at  the  "Met." 


Antique  guns  in  a  Greenwich  Village  curiosity  shop 
remind  him  of  his  own  hunting  collection  in  England. 


Alastair's   a 'foreign   food   fancier,   and    often 
returns  to  sample  the  Italian  menu  at  Monte's. 


who's  who  in 


Harry  Townes 


Harry  has  had  frequent  leading  roles 

on  Studio  One.    Here  he  portrays 

Secretary  Hock  in  "Abraham  Lincoln." 


Listening  to  Harry  Townes  as  he  appears 
■  on  any  of  the  top  TV  dramatic  shows, 
it's  hard  to  believe  he  was  raised  in 
Alabama  and  once  had  a  thick-as-cotton 
Southern  accent.  "I  had  to  work  awfully 
hard  at  getting  rid  of  it,"  says  Harry. 
In  fact,  he  had  to  forsake  his  role 
in  the  record-breaking  Broadway  hit, 
"Tobacco  Road,"  and  move  to  Maine — 
where  he  spent  four  years  at  the  famous 
Kennebunk  Playhouse — before  achieving 
the  smooth,  well-modulated  accent  he  has 
today.  Prior  to  launching  his  successful 
career  as  an  actor,  Harry  had  studied 
liberal  arts  at  the  University  of  Alabama, 
had  taken  five  years  out  to  serve  with  the 
Army  Air  Corps  in  the  China-Burma-India 
Theater,  then  returned  to  studying  and 
earned  his  B.A.  at  Columbia  University. 
Having  established  himself  firmly  on  the 
Broadway  stage,  in  movies  and  TV,  Harry 
points  with  pride  and  gratitude  to  his 
first  big  roles  in  each  medium:  He  played 
the  lovable  leprechaun  in  "Finian's 
Rainbow";  his  first  major  TV  assignment 
was  on  Studio  On6;  and  in  movies  he  is 
now  starring  in  his  first  role  in  "Operation 
Manhunt."    Because  TV  keeps  him 
constantly  in  demand,  Harry  maintains  a 
bachelor  apartment  in  New  York  City, 
but  adds,  "I  have  to  have  a  home  in  the 
country."  This  is  a  modern  house  on  Long 
Island.  There,  also,  lives  his  dearly  loved 
cocker  spaniel,  Patrick.  For  relaxation, 
Harry  enjoys  a  busman's  holiday  at  the 
theater  or  puttering  around  his  garden. 
Above  all,  says  he,  "My  home  is  my  hobby." 


64 


TV  dramas 


New  York  born  and  bred,  Olive  Deering 
has  been  in  love  with  the  theater 
and  acting  since  she  was  eight  years  old. 
After  attending  the  Professional  Children's 
School  in  New  York,  she  set  out  to  make  her 
mark  on  Broadway.   Her  first  appearance 
was  only  as  a  walk-on,  but  three  plays 
later  she  was  starring  in  "Searching  for  the 
Sun."  Then  followed  others  such  as  "King 
Richard  II,"  opposite  Maurice  Evans, 
"Winged  Victory,"  and  "Counselor- at- 
Law,"  opposite  Paul  Muni.  In  movies,  Olive 
has  had  featured  roles  in  "Samson  and 
Delilah,"  "Caged,"  and  in  the  forthcoming 
Cecil  B.  DeMille  production,  "The  Ten 
Commandments."    Television  has   claimed 
her  for  leading  roles  in  every  dramatic 
show  from  Robert  Montgomery  Presents 
and  the  Philco  and  Kraft  theaters  to 
Danger,  Suspense  and  Tales  Of  Tomorrow. 
Although  the  majority  of  her  roles  have 
been  serious  ones,  Olive  enjoys  doing 
comedy — in  fact,  says  she,  "You  always 
enjoy  any  kind  of  part  if  you  like  it." 
Whether  it's  a  role  on  the  stage,  in  movies 
or  TV,  Olive  says,  "I  enjoy  them  all  in 
different  ways;  all  of  it  is  fun  to  me."  Olive 
is  married  to  actor  Leo.Penn,  and  they 
have  an  apartment  in  New  York  City.    She, 
too,  enjoys  time  off  at  the  theater,  letting 
other  actors  entertain  her,  and,  when 
she  can  find  the  time,  likes  to  paint 
landscapes.   Music  is  another  of  Olive's 
pastime  preferences,  and  she  enjoys  all 
forms,  from  the  symphonies  of  Beethoven 
and  Brahms  to  jazz  and  blues  recordings, 
of  which  she  has  an  extensive  collection. 


Olive  Deering 


Dramatizing  history  on  You  Are  There, 

Olive  gives  her  interpretation  of 
the  notorious  character,   Belle  Starr. 


See   JXext   Page  m 

65 


who's  who  in  TV  dramas 


Eric  Dressler,  whose  voice — before  the  advent  of 
television — was  familiar  to  millions  of  radio  listeners, 
became  an  actor  as  a  result  of  a  "reversal  of  family 
fortunes."   Eric's  family  was  in  the  process  of  providing 
him  with  a  good  school  and  social  background  when  a 
sudden  loss  of  finances  cut  short  their  plans.  Since  Eric, 
who  was  18  at  the  time,  had  no  business  training,  his  father 
sought  the  help  of  a  friend  in  show  business  who  gave 
Eric  his  first  part  as  juvenile  lead  in  a  vaudeville  sketch. 
From  there,  Eric  progressed  to  touring  with  stock  com- 
panies and,  finally,  in  1924,  to  his  first  Broadway  play, 
"The  Goose  Hangs  High,"  followed  by  "Young  Blood," 
with  Helen  Hayes,  and  a  host  of  others,  including  "Excess 
Baggage,"  with  Miriam  Hopkins,  and  "Three  Sisters," 
with  Katharine  Cornell.  After  working  in  radio  for  a 
number  of  years,  Eric  turned  his  charms  to  television.  He 
has  been  featured,  among  others,  on  The  Web,  Robert 
Montgomery  Presents,  and  currently  plays  the  role  of 
Charles  Goodwin  on  NBC-TV's  Golden  Windows.  Married 
to  a  former  actress,  Patricia  Calvert,  Eric  lives  on  a  farm 
in  Pennsylvania.  There  the  Dresslers  busy  themselves 
with  their  common  hobby,  raising  goats — which,  besides 
making  wonderful  pets,  provide  the  Dresslers  with  a 
goodly  supply  of  milk  and  additional  income. 


Eric  Dressier 


When  asked  what  TV  shows  he  has  appeared  on, 
E.  G.  Marshall  modestly  replies,  "Well,  Kraft 
Television  Theater  in  'Macbeth'  and  'Rip  Van  Winkle'  .  .  . 
and  about  348  others  that  were  also  enjoyable."  Which 
is  about  as  little  as  could  possibly  be  said  in  favor 
of  Mr.  Marshall's  expert  and  versatile  performances. 
Born  in  Owatonna,  Minnesota,  Mr.  Marshall  gained  his 
training  in  the  theater  through  hard  work  and  experience. 
In  1933,  he  joined  a  repertory  company  and  for  two 
years  toured  throughout  the  South  and  Southwest, 
playing  Shakespearean  and  other  classical  roles.    Mr. 
Marshall  points  to  his  starring  role  in  Eugene  O'Neill's 
"The  Iceman  Cometh"  as  his  greatest  acting  experience, 
and  credits  Mr.  O'Neill's  careful  guidance  as 
contributing  most  to  the  formulation  of  his  career.   He 
can  also  look  back  on  successful  Broadway  roles  in  such 
plays  as  "The  Skin  of  Our  Teeth,"  "Jacobowsky  and  the 
Colonel,"  and  "The  Crucible"  .  .  .  outstanding  movie 
roles  in  "The  House  on  92nd  Street,"  "The  Caine  Mutiny," 
and  most  recently  "The  Silver  Chalice"  and  "I  Was  a 
Prisoner  in  Korea" — not  to  mention  being  one  of  the 
busiest  performers  in  TV.    When  making  movies  in 
California,  Mr.  Marshall  enjoys  horseback  riding  in  his 
free  time.   In  New  York,  he  and  his  wife  Emy 
share  an  apartment  with  their  beagle,  Dusty.    Mr. 
Marshall  also  has  a  lodge  in  Vermont,  where  he 
and  Dusty  go  rabbit  hunting,  fishing  or  skiing.  This  year, 
Mr.  Marshall  is  taking  archery  lessons  and  hopes, 
next  year,  "to  bag  me  a  buck  with  a  bow." 


E.  G.  Marshall 


66 


who's  who  in  TV  dramas 


Although  she  is  the  daughter  of  the  famous  Gene 
i  and  Kathleen  Lockhart  and  made  her  stage  debut 
when  she  was  8,  June  Lockhart  is  the  first  to  banish  any 
notions  that  she  has  led  a  "born  backstage"  kind  of  life. 
"I  wasn't  born  in  a  theater  trunk,"  says  June,  "and  I've 
never  lived  out  of  a  suitcase!"   When  she  was  13,  June 
played  Belinda  Cratchitt  in  the  movie  version  of  "A 
Christmas  Carol" — with,  logically  enough,  her  father  and 
mother  cast  as  the  parents,  Bob  and  Mrs.  Cratchitt.  In 
1943,  after  graduation  from  the  Westlake  School  for 
Girls  in  Hollywood,  June  assumed  an  active  movie  career, 
appearing  in  such  films  as  "Meet  Me  in  St.  Louis," 
"Son  of  Lassie,"  and  "The  Yearling."    In  1948,  she 
achieved  overnight  stardom  with  her  Broadway  debut  in 
"For  Love  or  Money."    After  three  more  years  of 
movie-making,  June  returned  to  New  York  to  launch 
her  career  in  television  and  has  since  appeared  in  most 
of  the  leading  dramatic  programs  such  as  Studio  One, 
Lux  Video  Theater,  V.  S.  Steel  Hour  and  Robert 
Montgomery  Presents.   She  has  also  proved  herself  an 
expert  panelist  on,  among  others,  Celebrity  Time  and 
Quick  As  A  Flash.  June  has  been  married  to  Dr.  John 
F.  Maloney  since  1951  and  they  now  share  their  New  York 
home  with  one-year-old  Anne  Kathleen. 


June  Lockhart 


Paul  Newman  was  destined  to  be  an  actor  from  the 
time  he  appeared  as  court  jester  in  "The  Travails  of 
Robin  Hood,"  a  sixth-grade  production  at  Malvern 
Grammar  School  in  Shaker  Heights,  Ohio.   Throughout 
high  school  and  at  Kenyon  College,  Paul  attracted 
attention  with  his  acting  abilities,  as  well  as  his  athletic 
prowess,  excelling  in  football,  basketball,  boxing  and 
swimming.  After  four  years  of  war  service  with  the  Navy, 
Paul  returned  to  get  his  degree  in  drama  and  economics 
at  Kenyon  College,  in  1949,  commenting,  "I  graduated 
magna  cum  kindness  of  their  heart."   Immediately  after 
graduation,  Paul  plunged  into  summer  stock,  appearing  in 
such  plays  as  "The  Glass  Menagerie"  and  "Cyrano  de 
Bergerac."  After  further  study  at  the  Yale  School  of 
Drama,  he  ventured  to  New  York  in  1951  and  was  soon 
appearing  on  TV  in  productions  of  The  Web,  You 
Are  There  and  The  Mask.  Stage-wise,  Paul  was  tapped 
for  a  feature  role  in  the  Broadway  hit,  "Picnic."  His 
success  in  this  brought  offers  from  Hollywood  and  Paul 
was  signed  to  play  the  romantic  lead  in  "The  Silver 
Chalice."  Today,  Paul  takes  double  pleasure  in  his  rising 
success  in  TV,  movies  and  on  the  stage,  and  in  his 
family — wife  Jackie,  whom  he  met  and  married  in  1949, 
son  Scott,  4,  and  daughter  Susan,  2.  At  home,  Paul 
relaxes  in  jeans,  a  T-shirt  and  loafers,  and  often  enjoys 
taking  over  the  cooking  duties,  considering  himself  an 
expert  on  salads.   He  also  takes  pleasure  in  long 
hikes  and  horseback  riding  and,  in  addition  to  his  creative 
acting  abilities,  is  a  skillful  sketch  artst. 


Paul  Newman 


67 


THANKS  FOR  THE  LIFT! 


Four  of  Jan's  reasons  why  it's  so  nice  to  come  home:   His  wife    Toni,  baby  Diane,  daughter  Celia,  son  Howard. 


Jan  Murray  owes  a  debt  of  gratitude  and  wishes  he  could  repay  it- 


88 


a* 


Goodbye  kiss,  then  off  to  work— perhaps  to  encourage 
some  young  comedian  as  Jan  himself  was  encouraged. 


By  HAROLD  KEENE 


Time  at  home  means  domestic  moments  with  Toni,  a 
quick  catch-up  on  the  mail,  but  never  "just  sitting 
around"   (one  of  the   earliest   lessons   Jan    learned). 


Jan  Murray,  the  handsome  young  emcee  of  Dollar 
A  Second  with  the  trip-hammer  tongue,  turned  from 
his  home  phone  the  other  day  to  find  his  wife 
looking  at  him   questioningly  from  the   doorway. 
After  a  moment,  he  shrugged. 

"Oh,  no!"  she  wailed. 

"Oh,  yes.    Miami,  this  time.    Another  convention 
one-shot." 

"But  I  never  see  you  any  more,"  she  said.    "Do  you 
realize  that's  nine  one -evening  shows  in  as  many 
different  cities  just  this  one  month?"   She  started 
counting  them  off  on  her  fingers.   "Pittsburgh, 
Philadelphia,  Boston — " 

"I  know  them  by  heart,"  he  said,  taking  her  in  his 
arms.   While  she  put  her  nose  against  his  shoulder  and 
allowed  herself  a  momentary  burst  of  self-pity,  he 
explained  again  for  the  umpteenth  time  why,  for  this 
year  at  least,  they  must  sacrifice  their  family  life 
while  he  spends  his  time  in  TV  studios  or  in  airplanes, 
traipsing  about  the  country. 

Of  course,  she  could  never  go  with  him.   In  five 
years  of  marriage,  they  had  had  three  children  in  rapid 
succession,  the  baby  now  only  a  few  months  old. 
They  had  a  well-staffed  house  and  a  nurse,  but  the 
Murrays. believe  in  the  old-fashioned  way  of  raising 
kids.   If  Pop  had  to  be  away  most  of  the  time,  at  least 
Mom  should  stay  home  and  represent  security  to  them. 

The  basic  reason  Pop  had  to  be  "that  stranger," 
who  turned  up  once  in  a  while  for  dinner  and  a  clean 


Continued 


at  even  more  than  a  Dollar  A  Second 


69 


THANKS  FOR  THE  LIFT ! 

(Continued) 


shirt,  was  his  new  TV  show,  which  nobody  had  dreamed 
would  be  so  successful.  Naturally,  it  had  seemed  like 
a  good  idea,  at  the  time — a  quiz  show  unlike  any  other, 
in  which  the  contestant  would  be  gambling  against 
himself  and  Fate.  As  you  know,  Mr.  Contestant  has  a 
choice:  He  can  elect  to  quit  at  any  time,  taking  with 
him  whatever  amount  of  money  he's  earned,  or  (if  he's 
not  retired  with  his  earnings  by  making  a  "boo-boo") 
he  may  be  struck  off  by  some  happening  outside  the 
studio — in  which  case  he  departs  without  a  penny.  The 
outside  happening  may  be  the  birth  of  the  first  baby  in 
a  certain  hospital,  with  time  being  called  on  the  con- 
testant the  moment  that  blessed  event  takes  place. 

Jan  works  very  fast,  ad-libbing  thousands  of  words  a 
minute,  keeping  the  excitement  at  a  fever  pitch,  ever- 
growing until  the  suspense  becomes  unbearable.  "You've 
got  six  hundred  and  twenty  dollars  now!"  he  says. 
"Wanna  quit?  You  can  quit,  you  know,  and  take  the 
money.   How  about  it?" 

The  guy  elects  to  stay,  and  three  seconds  later  the 
phone  rings.   He's  finished,  he's  lost  it  all. 

You'd  think  the  watchers  would  hate  the  program  for 
letting  that  happen,  wouldn't  you?  Well,  they  don't. 
They  sit  around  the  TV  set  and  scream,  "Quit  while  the 
quitting's  good!  Waddaya  want,  uranium?  Quit!"  Quit 
or  stay,  the  excitement  keeps  growing  in  intensity. 

Up,  up,  up  went  the  show's  rating.  Up,  and  higher 
than  up,  went  Jan  Murray's  stock  in  trade.  He'd  been 
a  cafe  headliner  in  show  business  around  the  country 
before.  Now  the  offers  came  pouring  in,  prices  doubled 
and  tripled  on  his  services.  The  demand  was  incredible. 

Las  Vegas  wanted  him.  Seventy-five  hundred  dollars 
a  week.  The  one-shot  offers  began  turning  up  and,  at 
first,  he  didn't  like  the  idea.  It  meant  flying  to  another 
city  for  two  nights,  interrupting  his  routine,  and  neither 
he  nor  Mary  nor  his  business  manager  thought  it  was 
sound  for  him  to  fly  so  much  alone  when  he  had  a  wife 
and  four  children  (one  an  older  boy  by  a  previous 
marriage). 

But  then  it  turned  out  that  most,  of  the  conventions 
that  were  bidding  for  these  one-night  stands  were  con- 


nected with  his  Sponsors.  I  capitalize  the  word  ad- 
visedly. No  one  in  Jan  Murray's  position  turns  down  a 
bid  from  a  Sponsor.  .  .  . 

Late  that  night,  Mrs.  Jan  Murray  reached  over  and 
touched  her  husband's  shoulder.  "Be  home  tomorrow 
evening  for  supper?"  she  asked  sleepily. 

"Philadelphia  tomorrow,  honey,"  he  said.  "Don't 
wait  up." 

People  who  have  sat  in  nightclubs  from  Hollywood 
to  Las  Vegas  to  Miami  to  New  York,  off  and  on  during 
the  past  four  or  five  years — and  laughed  their  heads  off 
at  Jan  Murray's  act — now  find  him  a  completely  dif- 
ferent personality,  on  television.  Here  is  a  comedian 
doing  an  emcee  job  on  a  quiz  show.  He  is  not  being  a 
comedian.  Yet  he  is  a  fantastic  success. 

How  does  one  do  this  thing?  How  is  this  accomplished, 
and  with  what  magic?  How  does  one  start  out  as  just  a 
kid  in  the  Catskills  resort-hotel  circuit — and  end  up  at 
the  very  top,  at  $7500  a  week? 

Perhaps  the  answer  can  be  found  in  Jan's  dressing 
room.  It's  a  dreary,  bare,  gray-painted  cubicle  (up- 
stairs from  the  stage)  which  would  be  enough  to  kill 
any  inspiration  that  ever  got  started,  but  Jan  sparkles 
in  it.  It's  his  business,  sparkling  like  that,  and  he  does 
it  easily  and  magnificently. 

"Everybody  always  talks  about  the  rivalry  among 
comedians,"  he  says.  "How  much  we  hate  each  other. 
How  we  feud  all  the  time,  and  accuse  one  another  of 
stealing  gags  and  routines  and  girlfriends." 

He  warms  up.  "Actually,  most  of  the  time,  there  is 
no  tighter  fraternity  in  the  world.  Furthermore,  no 
comedian  ever  got  on  top  without  the  help  of  other 
comedians,  even  when  they  knew  they  were  cutting 
their  own  throats.    Listen.  .  .  ." 

And  this  is  how  he  tells  the  tale: 

I  couldn't  have  been  older  than  twenty  (says  Jan) 
when  I  played  one  of  my  first  big  dates  at  Kitty  Davis' 
Airliner   in   Miami   Beach.      (Continued   on   page   81) 

Jan  Murray  stars  as  emcee  of  Dollar  A  Second,  seen  over  ABC-TV, 
Fridays,  9  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Mogen  David  Wine  Corporation. 


Baby-sitting  is  no  chore  to  Jan,  who  counts  his  youngsters  among  the  greatest  blessings  which  have  come  his  way. 


...KRAFT  5-STAR  NEWSCASTS... KRAFT  5-STAR  NEWSCASTS 


,10:30AM  NYT*-FRANKSINGISER...II:25AM  NYT-HOLLAND  ENGLE...  12:15 PM  NYT-LES  HIGBIE 


.2:25PM  NYr-SAM  HAYES... 5:55PM  NYT-CECIL  BROWN...OVER  MUTUAL...THE  RADIO  NET 


5  times  a  day. . .  from  New  York . .  .Washington . . .  Chicago . . .  Los  Angeles, 

the  Kraft  Foods  Company  presents  headline  news,  as  it's  reported  from  Mutual  and 

international  wire  service  correspondents  all  over  the  world. 

5  distinguished  news  commentators  every  day  will  broadcast  national  and  world  events 
to  keep  you  up  to  the  minute  in  these  fast-moving  times. 

.  Frank  Singiser  reports  from  New  York 

.  Holland  Engle  reports  world  news  from  Chicago 

m  Les  Higbie  with  Capital  Commentary  from  Washington 

.  Sam  Hayes,  the  West  Coast's  best  known  newsman,  reports  from  Los  Angeles 

m  Cecil  Brown  presents  the  early  evening  round-up  from  Mutual' s  New  York  newsroom 

Keep  on  top  of  the  news  with  Kraft  Headline  News  every  day. 


...MUTUAL  BROADCASTING  SYSTEM... the  radio  network  for  all  America 

*  Check  your  newspaper  listing  for  exact  time  and  station  in  your  locality. 


mmmmmMmmmMMmmm 


71 


72 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Standard  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Local  Program 

Gabriel  Heatter1 

8:55  It  Happens 

Every  Day- 

John  MacVane 
8:55  Betty  Crockert 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Dick  Willard  Show 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

10:45 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peale 
Joyce  Jordan 
Doctor's  Wife 

Break  The  Bank 

Cecil  Brown 

News 

10:35  Johnny 
Olsen  Show 

My  True  Story 

10:25  Whispering 
Streets 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:00 
11:15 

11:30 

11:45 

Strike  It  Rich 

Phrase  That  Pays 
Second  Chance 

Florida  Calling  With 

Tom  Moore 
11:25  Holland  Engle 
Queen  For  A  Day 

Modern  Romances 
Companion 

Your  Neighbor's 

Voice 
Three-City  Byline 

Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 

Rosemary 

Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

Pauline  Frederick 
Reporting 

Break  The  Bank 

Valentino 

Wendy  Warren  & 
The  News 

12:15 

Capitol  Commentary 

Frank  Farrell 

Aunt  Jenny 

12:30 

with  Les  Higgie 

Helen  Trent 

12:45 

12:20  Guest  Time 

Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 

News,  Cedric  Foster 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

Road  Of  Life 

1:15 

Luncheon  At  Sardi's 

Ted  Malone 

Ma  Perkins 

1:30 

Ted  Steele  Show 

Young  Dr.  Malone 

1:45 

The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 

Luncheon  With 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 

2:15 

Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 

Hayes 
Wonderful  City 

Perry  Mason 

2:30 

Betty  Crockert 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 

2:45  | 

2:35  Martin  Block 

Brighter   Day 

3:00  News 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Hilltop  House 

3:15  3:05  Women  In  Love 

Art  Linkletter's 

3:30  Pepper  Young 

House  Party 

3:45  Right  To  Happiness 

Mike  &  Buff's 
Mailbag 

4:00  Backstage  Wife 

Latin  Quarter 

4:15  Stella  Dallas 

Matinee 
4:25  Betty  Crockert 

4:30  |  Young  Widder  Brown 

Treasury  Bandstand 

Treasury   Bandstand 

4:45  Woman  In  My  House 

4:55  News 

5:00 

Just  Plain  Bill 

Bobby  Benson2 

(Sgt.  Preston)' 
Bobby  Benson 

Musical  Express 

News 

5:05  John  Faulk 

5:15 

Lorenzo  Jones 

Fred  Beck 

5:30 

Hotel  For  Pets 

Gloria  Parker 

Curt  Massey  Time 

5:45 

It  Pays  To  Be 
Married 

5:55  Cecil  Brown 
'T-TH  2M-W-F 

Vincent  Lopez 

tT,  Th-Sheilah 
Graham 

5:55  This  I  Believe 

Monday 


Evening  Programs 


6:00 

6:15  i Sports  Daily  with 
;     Mel  Allen,  Russ 

6:30       Hodges 

6:45  Three  Star  Extra 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 

Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00  Alex  Dreier,  Man 
7:15       On  The  Go 
7:30  News  Of  The  World 
7:45  One   Man's   Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel   Heatter 
In  The  Mood 

Vandercook,    News 
Quincy  Howe 
The  Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 

Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00  Best   Of  All 
8:15 

8:30 
8:45 

Top  Secret  Files 
Broadway  Cop 

Jack  Gregson  Show 
American  Music  Hall 
Voice  Of  Firestone 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 

Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 

9:00  Telephone  Hour 

9:15 

930  Band  Of  America 

9A5 

News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Sports  Tonight, 
with  Al  Heifer 

Metropolitan  Opera 

Auditions 
9:25  News 
Freedom  Sings 

Perry  Como 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00   Fibber  McGce   & 

Molly 
10:15  Great  Gildersleeve 

10:30  Two  In  The  Balcony 

Sports  Tonight  (con.) 

Distinguished 
Artists 

News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 

Martha  Lou  Harp 

Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 

6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 


9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Tuesday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Lux  Radio  Theater 


Lux  Theater  (con.) 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Listen  To 

Washington 


Evening 

Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 

John  Steele, 
Adventurer 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Sports  Tonight, 
with  Al  Heifer 


Sports  Tonight  (con.) 


Programs 

ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Silver  Eagle 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Stop  The  Music 


Sammy  Kaye 

9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 

News 
Platterbrains 

9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 
Take  Thirty 


Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Emit 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Stop  The  Music 

(con.) 
Bing  Crosby 

Amos  V  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 


Wednesday 


Evening   Programs 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 

Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 

Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 

Tennessee  Emio 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 

8:30 

Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 

News 

8:35  Barrie  Craig 

Squad  Room 
Sentenced 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

FBI  In  Peace  And 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
21st  Precinct 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

You  Bet  Your  Life 
Big  Story 

News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Sports  Tonight, 
with  Al  Heifer 

Sammy  Kaye 

Brown  Derby 
Record  Room 

Perry  Como 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 

Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 

Keys  To  The  Capital 

Sports  Tonight  (con.) 
Sounding  Board 

News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 

Dunnigans  &  Friends 

Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost    Persons 

Thursday 


Evening    Programs 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 

Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 

Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Silver  Eagle 
7:55  Les  Griffith 

Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 

Roy  Rogers 
Bob  Hope  Show 

Official  Detective 
Crime  Fighters 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

Suspense 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 

Nightwatch 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

News 

9:05  Spend  A  Million 

Where  Have  You 
Been? 

News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Sports  Tonight, 
with  Al  Heifer 

Serenade  Room 

Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 

Rosemary  Clooney 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  V  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 

Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Great   Gildersleeve 

Jane  Pickens  Show 

Sports  Tonight  (con.) 
Musical  Caravan 

News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 

Front  &  Center 

Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 

6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


Friday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 


Alex    Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 
Friday  With 
Garroway 


Garroway  (con.) 


Boxing-Cavalcade 
Of  Sports 


Sports  Highlights 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Counter-Spy 
Take  A  Number 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Sports  Tonight, 
with  Al  Heifer 


Sports  Tonight  (con.) 


Fall  Out 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 


The  world  We 

Live  In 
9:55  Sport  Report 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 

Indoors  Unlimited 


Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 

Lowell   Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Crime  Photographer 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Godfrey  Digest 


Perry  Como 

Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 

9:55  News 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  Of 
Lost  Persons 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Egbert  &  Ummly 

Local  Program 

Doug  Browning 
Show 

News 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Egbert  &  Ummly 

(con.) 
Serenade  To 

Romance 

News 

No  School 
Today 

News  Of  America 
Garden  Gate 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 
10:45 

Mary  Margaret 
McBride 

Travel  Guide 

No  School 

Today  (con.) 
Space  Patrol 

News 

10:05  Galen  Drake 

Show 
10:55  News 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 
11:45 

11 :05  Half-Pint 
Panel 

All  League  Club- 
house 

Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show 

Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 
12:15 

12:30 
12:45 

National  Farm  And 
Home  Hour 

Western  Show 

1  Asked  You 

New  England 
Barn  Dance 

News 

12:05  101  Ranch 

Boys 
American  Farmer 

Noon  News 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

Dude  Ranch 
Jamboree 
Roadshow 

Fifth  Army  Band 
Ruby  Mercer  Show 

News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

Vincent  Lope2 

1:55  News 

City  Hospital 

News 

1:35  Stan  Daugherty 
Presents 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Richard  Hayes 

Metropolitan  Opera 

Jimmie  Feather- 
stone  Orch. 
Teddy  Wilson  Orch. 
Richard  Hayes 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Roadshow   (con.) 

Metropolitan  Opera 
(con.) 

String  Serenade 
Xavier  Cugat 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Metropolitan  Opera 
(con.) 

Paul  Neighbor's 

Orch. 
Ralph  Marterie  Orch. 

5:00 

5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Teenagers  Unlimited 
5:55  News 

News 

5:05  Festival 

Adventures  In 

Science 
Farm  News 
News 
5:35  Saturday  At 

The  Chase 

Evening   Programs 


6:00 

6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

7:00 

7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


News 

H.  V.  Kaltenborn 
Thy  Kingdom  Come 


NBC  Travel  Bureau 
7:05  Heart  Of  The 

College  Quiz  Bowl 


John  T.  Flynn 


Men's  Corner 
6:55  Cecil  Brown 


6:05  Pan-American     News 

Union 
Sports,  Bob  Finnegan  Sports  Roundup 


Pop  The  Question 


Keep  Healthy 
7:55  Globe  Trotter 


Conversation 
Boston  Symphony 


True  Or  False 

Magic  Valley 
Jamboree 


Boston  Symphony 

(con.) 
Grand  Ole  Opry 


10:00 


10:15 

•it;  3d 


Tex  Williams  Show 


Town  Hall  Party 


Bob  Edge,  Sports 
Afield 


Capitol  Cloakroom 


News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Labor-Manage- 
ment Series 


Dance  Party 


Hawaii  Calls 
Lombardo  Land 


Chicago  Theater  Of 
The  Air 


Dance  Party  (con.) 


News 
10:05  Ozark 

Jubilee 
Ambassador  Hotel 


News 

7:05  Make  Way  For 

Youth 
Gangbusters 


Gunsmoke 
Juke  Box  Jury 


Two  For  The  Money 

Country  Style 
9:55  News 


Country  Style  (con.) 


Louisville  Philhar- 
monic Orchestra 


L. 


Sunday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


8:30 
8:45 


MBS 


9:00 
9:15 


9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 


10:30 
10:45 


11:00 


11:15 
11:30 


World  News  Roundup 
Carnival  Of  Books 

Faith  In  Action 
Art  Of  Living 


National  Radio 
Pulpit 

Headlines  In 
Perspective 


News 

1 1 :05  Stars  From 

Paris 
Pauline  Frederick 

At  UN 
UN  Assignment 


Wings  Of  Healing 


Back  To  God 


News 

9:05  Milton  Cross 

Album 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


11:45 

Afternoon  Programs 


Frank  And  Ernest 


Northwestern 
Reviewing  Stand 


ABC 


Light  And  Life  Hour 


CBS 


Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 


World  News  Roundup 
The  Music  Room 

Organ  Music 
9:55  News 


News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 


12:00 


12:15 
12:30 


12:45 


1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 


2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 


3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 


4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 


5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 


Music  For 
Relaxation 

The  Eternal  Light 


Studio  Concerts 


News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 
Tune  Time 


Youth  Wants  To 

Know 
Univ.  Of  Chicago 

Round  Table 


The  Catholic  Hour 
Anthology 


Weekend 


Weekend  (con.) 


Inheritance 
Dennis  Day  Show 


Sunday  Melodies 
11:05  Marines  On 

Review 
News 
11:35  Christian   In 

Action 


Pan-American 
Union 

The  World  Tomorrow 


Church  Of  The  Air 

Church  Of  The  Air 
(con.) 


Global  Frontiers 
Lutheran  Hour 


Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Tune  Time 
Merry  Mailman 


Wonderful  City 

Tune  Time 
CBC  Symphony 


CBC    Symphony 

(con.) 
Nick  Carter 
4:55  Lome  Greene 


Adventures  Of  Rin 

Tin  Tin 
True  Detective 

Mysteries 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 


Herald  Of  Truth 

News 

1:35  Pilgrimage 


Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 


News 

3:05  Air  Force   Show 

Hour  Of  Decision 


Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 

Invitation  To 
Learning 


News.  LeSueur 
12:05  The  Leading 

Qu:stion 
Howarl  K.  Smith, 

World  Affairs 
News  Report 


Man's  Right  To 
Knowledge 

News 

1:35  Syncopation 
Piece 


Symphonette 

New  York  Philhar- 
monic-Symphony 


Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 


Evening   Programs 


6:00 

6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


American  Forum 


Travels  In  Tempo 


7:00 


7:15 
7:30 


7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


Public  Prosecutor- 
Jay  Jostyn 

On  The  Line,  Bob 
Considine 

Wismer,  Sports 


A  Radio  Tribute 


7:55  NBC  Travel 
Bureau 


Six  Shooter 


Adventures  Of  The 
Abbots 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Sherlock  Holmes 
Easy  Money 


Fibber  McGee  And 

Molly 
Great    Gildersleeve 
Meet  The  Press 


Evening  Comes 

Greatest  Story 
Ever  Told 


Monday  Morning 

Headlines 
Paul  Harvey,  News 
World  Church 


New  York  Philhar- 
monic-Symphony 
(con.) 


News,  LeSueur 
4:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 


Rod  And  Gun  Club 


Enchanted  Hour 


News 

7:05  Showtime 

Revue 
George  Sokolsky 
News 

7:35  Valentino 
Travel  Talk 


Oklahoma  City 
Symphony 


Oklahoma  City 

Symphony  (con.) 
Manion  Forum 
Hazel  Markel,  News 


Billy  Graham 


ILittle  Symphonies 


News 

5:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon  (con.) 
5:55  News,  Trout 


Gene  Autry 


Hall  Of  Fame 


Jack  Benny 
Amos  V  Andy 


American  Town 
Meeting 


Walter  Winchell 
News,  Quincy  Howe 
Sammy  Kaye 
9:55  News 


Paul  Harvey,  News 

timer  Davis 
Revival  Time 


Our  Miss  Brooks 
My  Little  Margie 


Edgar  Bergen   Show 


News,  Schorr 
10:05  Mahalia  Jack- 
son, Gosoel  Singer        " 
Face  The  Nation  „ 


See   Next   Paqe- 


73 


TV  program   highlights 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW   HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  FEBRUARY  8- MARCH  7 


Monday  through  Friday 


DAYTIME 
:00  0  Morning  Show— Get  up  to  Paar 

O  4@  Today— Garroway's    great 
:00  0  George   Skinner  Show— AM  variety 

O    Breakfast  Club— Don  McNeill's  gang 
:00  0  Garry  Moore  Show— Fun  for  all 

©  &  GO  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nursery 
:30  0  Arthur  Godfrey   Time— Simulcast 

O  Way  Of  The  World— Drama 
:C0  ©  Home— Big    hour   with   Arlene    Francis 
:30  0  &  GO  Strike   It  Rich— Quiz  for  needy 

0  Susan  Adams— Way  to  a  man's  heart 
:00  0  Valiant   Lady— Flora    Campbell   stars 

Q  Tennessee    Ernie   Show 
:15   0  &  GO  Love  Of  Life— Daytime  Drama 
:30  0  fit  [H  Search  For  Tomorrow— Story 

©  Feather  Your  Nest— Bud  Collyer,quiz 
:4S  0  (&        at  2:30)  The  Guiding  Light 
:00  0    Portia  Faces  Life— With  Fran  Carlon 

0  Claire  Mann— Glamour  tips 
:15  0   Road  Of  Life— Don  MacLaughlin  stars 
:30  0  &  GO  Welcome  Travelers— From  Chi 

0  Em  Westmore— Look  lovelier 
:00  0  &  GO  Robert  Q.   Lewis  Show— Go! 

0  Journey  Through  Life— Tommy  Red- 
ely   interviews,    Mon.,    Tue.,    Wed.;    at    2:15, 
Thurs.   &   Fri.   All   About  Baby— Child   care 
with  Ruth  Crowley,  Thurs.  &  Fri. 
:30  0  Linkletter's  House  Party— A  ball! 

©  Jinx  Falkenberg — Intimate  Interviews 

(J)   Liberace— Valentino  of  the   piano 
:00  0  &  GO  The  Big  Payoff— Mink-lined  quiz 

©  The  Greatest  Gift— Serial— Ann  Burr 

©  Paul    Dixon  Show— Musicmimics 

0  Ted  Steele  Show— Words  and   music 
:15  ©  The    Golden    Windows— Serial 
:30  0  Bob  Crosby  Show— Musical  variety 

©   &  GO  One   Man's    Family— Serial 
:45  O  &    '  :  Concerning    Miss  Marlowe 
:00   ©   &        The    Brighter   Day— Serial 

©  Hawkins   Falls— Rural   story 
:15  0  &  GO  Secret   Storm— Daily   story 

©  First   Love— Stars   Pat   Barry 
:30  0  On  Your  Account— DennisJames,qui7 

©  World  Of  Mr.  Sweeney— Chuckles 

EARLY  EVENING 
6:30  (D  Liberace— Repeat   of   afternoon   show 
7:00  0  Kukla,  Fran  &  Ollie— Fun  &  Fantasy 
7:15  O  John   Daly,  News 
7:30  0  Douglas  Edwards,  News 

©  Songs  —  Tony     Martin,     Mon.;     Dinah 

Shore,  Tues.,  Thurs.;  Eddie  Fisher,  Wed.,  Fri. 

0  Million    Dollar    Movies-Feb.    8-14, 

"Four    Faces    West,"    Joel    McCrea,    Frances 

Dee,    Charles     Bickford;     Feb.     15-21,     "The 

Fabulous    Dorseys,"    Tommy    &    Jimmy    with 

Janet  Blair,  Pops  Whiteman;  Feb.  22-28,  "So 

This    Is    New    York,"    Henry    Morgan,    Hugh 

Herbert;  Mar.   1-7,  "Caught,"  James  Mason, 

Barbara   Bel   Geddes 

7:45  0   Songs— Perry  Como,  Mon.,  Wed.,  Fri.; 

Jo   Stafford,    Tues.;    Jane    Froman,   Thurs. 

©  &  [k]  News  Caravan— Suave  Swayze 

LATE  NIGHT 

10:00  O  Million    Dollar    Movies— Repeat    of 

show  at  7:30.  See  listi  -gs  above 
11:00  0  News,  Don  Russell 

0  TV   Playhouse— Half-hour   films 
11:15   ©  Tonight-Steve  Allen 
0  Ernie    Kovacs   Show 
11:30  0  News,  Don  Goddard 
12:45   0  The   Late,  Late   Show— Feature  films 


74 


Monday  P.M 


7:00 
7:30 


8:00 


Sherlock     Holmes— Ronald     Howard 
Life   With   Elizabeth— Betty  White 
Name's   The    Same— Dennis   James 
Burns   &    Allen  — Coupled    comedy 


8:00 

o 

Prod 

u 

ar, 

0 

8:30 

0 

o 

9:00 

0 

© 

9:30 

0 

© 

o 

10:00 

0 

o 

10:30 

© 

&  GO  Caesar's      Hour  —  Sid     sizzles. 

ucer's  Showcase— 90-minute  spectac- 

Mar.  7 

TV  Readers'  Digest— Filmed  dramas 
Talent   Scouts— Godfrey's   showcase 
&  GO  Voice  Of  Firestone— Concert 
fit  GO  I  Love  Lucy— Great  guffaws 
The  Medic — Documentaries  of  docs 
&  GO  December  Bride— Charming 
Robert   Montgomery   Presents 
The  Unexpected— Killer-chillers 
Studio   One— Live,   hour   dramas 
Boxing— From    Eastern    Parkway 
Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  stars 


Tuesday 


7:30  ©  Waterfront— Preston    Foster  stars 
O  Cavalcade  Of  America— Dramas 

8:00  0  Life  With  Father— Comedy  Series 
©  &  00  Milton     Berle-Feb.    8    &    22; 
Martha  Raye,  Feb.  15;  Bob  Hope,  Mar.  1 
©  Life  Is  Worth  Living— Bishop  Sheen 

8:30  0  Halls  Of  Ivy— The  Ronald  Colmans 

©  Studio  57— Varieties  of  drama,  filmed 
0  20   Questions— Animal,  vegetable, etc. 

9:00  0  &  GO  Meet  Millie— Gay,  giddy  gal 
©  Fireside  Theater— Filmed  dramas 
0   Make  Room  For  Daddy— Comedy 

9:30  0  &  GO  Red  Skelton— Laff-time 
©  Circle  Theater— Dramas 
©  It's  A  Mystery— Terror  tales 
O  U.S.  Steel   Theater— Elgin   Theater 
Fine,  hour  dramas,  alternating  weekly 
10:00  0  Danger— Hair-raising    stories 

©  fit  GO  Truth    Or    Consequences— Fun 
10:30  0   See  It  Now— Ed  Murrow's  video  mag 
©  It's  A  Great  Life— Very  funny 
0  Stop   The   Music— Bert   Parks'   quiz 


V eclnesda 


7:00  ©  Norby— Comedy,   David   Wayne   stars 
7:30  ©  Life  With  Elizabeth— Betty  White 

O  Disneyland— A  great  video   hour 
8:00  0  &  GO  Godfrey    Show— Artful    variety 

©  I  Married  Joan— Joan  Davis  comedy 
8:30  ©  (&  GO  at  9:30)  My  Little  Margie 

O  Stu  Erwin  Show— Stu's  in  one 
9:00  0  fit  GO  The  Millionaire— $tories 

©  Kraft  Theater— Live,   hour   dramas 

0  Masquerade    Party— Peter    Donald 
9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret— Garry  Moore 

0    Who  Said  That?— John  Daly,  emcee 
10:00  0  &  GO  Blue    Ribbon   Boxing 

©  This  Is  Your  Life— Ralph  Edwards 

©  Down  You   Go— Lively   panel   show 
10:30  ©  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 

0  Files  Of  Jeffrey  Jones— Whodunits 


Thursday 


7:30  ©  Finders  Keepers— Quiz,  Fred  Robbins 

©  Lone  Ranger— Shoot-em-up 
8:00  0  Meet  Mr.  McNulty-Ray  Milland 
©  &  GO  You   Bet  Your   Life— Groucho 
©  They   Stand    Accused— Court    drama 
O  The  Mail  Story— Post  office  drama 
8:30  0  Climax — Hours     of    suspense,    except 
Feb.  17,  Shower  Of  Stars,  colorful  musical 
©  &  GO  Justice— Police    Stories 
O  T-Men  in  Action— Melodramas 
9:00  ©  &  GO  Dragnet-Dum-da-da-dum 

©What's  The  Story?— Pert  panel  quiz 
©  Star  Tonight— Drama  series 
9:30  0  FourStarPlayhouse— Weeklydramas 
©  &  GO  Ford  Theater— Filmed  stories 
0  Pond's  Television  Theater— Dramas 
10:00  0  Public  Defender— Reed  Hadley  stars 
fit  GO  Lux  Video  Theater— Full  hour 
Name   That   Tune— Quiz,   Bill   Cullen 


10:30 


10:30  ©  Between  The  Lines— Topical  panel 
©  Racket  Squad— Hadley  scores  again 


Friday 


7:30  ©  China   Smith— Adventures 

0  Rin   Tin   Tin — Canine   melodrama 

8:00  0  fit  GO  Mama— Beguiling  comedy 
©  Red  Buttons— Funny?  You  bet! 
O  Ozzie    &    Harriet— The    most! 

8:30  0  Topper— Hocus-pocus    comedy 

©  fit  GO  Life  Of  Riley-Hearty  fun 
O  Ray  Bolger  Show— Splendid 

9:00  0  Playhouse  Of  Stars— Filmed  dramas 
©  fit  GO  Big  Story— Gripping,  true  stories 
©  The  Stranger— Sockeroo  drama 
0  Dollar  A  Second— Quiz,  Jan  Murray 

9:30  0  Our  Miss  Brooks— Eve  Arden  clowns 
©  &  GO  Dear    Phoebe— Poter    Lawford 
©  One  Minute,  Please— Allyn  Edwards 
0  The    Vise— Thrillers   from    Britain 
10:00  0  The   Line-Up— City   police   at   work 

©  fit  GO  Cavalcade    Of    Sports— Boxing 
©  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
10:30  0  Person   To   Person— Murrow's  visits 
©  Boss    Lady— Comedy   with    Lynn    Bari 
O  Mr.  District  Attorney— David  Brian 
0  Florian   ZaBach— Fiddle   faddle 


Saturday 


5:30  0  Annie   Oakley— Bang!    Bang! 
6:30  0  Man  Behind  The  Badge— Whodunits 
7:00  ©  The    Star    And    The    Story  —  Henry 
Fonda,   host   to   new  TV  theater 
O  The  Gloria  Swanson  Show 
7:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Stunts  for  prizes 

©   Horace    Heidt— Talent-hunt    show 
8:00  0  Jackie    Gleason    Show— Sensational 
©  fit  GO  Mickey  Rooney— Comedy  series 
8:30  ©  So    This    Is    Hollywood— Comedy 
9:00  0  Two   For  The  Money— Quiz,  Shriner 
©  Imogene     Coca     Show  —  Wonderful 
skits;  Max  Liebman  Presents,  Feb.  12. 
9:30  0  My  Favorite  Husband— Just  great 
©  &  GO  Durante-O'Connor    Show 
Jimmy,  Feb.  19  &  Mar.  5;  Donald  alternates 
10:00  0  Professional   Father— Steve   Dunne 

©  &  GO  George  Gobel— Real  gone  guy! 
10:30  ©  Willy— June   Havoc  in  title  role 

©  &  GO  Your  Hit  Parade— Just  fine 


Sunday 


4:30  0  The   Search— Excellent   documentaries 
5:00  0  Omnibus— Always    recommended 

©  Hall   Of   Fame— Stirring   dramas 
5:30  ©  We  Love  Dogs— A  good  pet  show 
6:00  ©  Meet  The  Press— Newsmaking   panel 

0  Corliss  Archer— Ann  Baker  as  teener 
6:30  0  You    Are    There— History    alive 
7:00  0  Lassie— Filmed  adventures 

©  fit  GO  People    Are    Funny— Linkletter 

0  You  Asked  For  It— Art  Baker,  emcee 

7:30  0  &  GO  Jock     Benny— Alternating    with 

Private    Secretary,    Ann    Sothern    comedy 

©  Mr.     Peepers— Wally     Cox's     tickler; 
Feb.   27,  90-minute  Spectacular 

0  Pepsi-Cola  Playhouse— Dramas 
8:00  0  &  GO  Toast   Of   The   Town— Variety 

©  Colgate  Comedy  Hour— Top  jesters 
9:00  0  G-E    Theater— Ronald     Reagan,    host 

©&  00  TV    Playhouse 
9:15  O  Lifeline— Medical    drama 
9:30  0  Your  Favorite   Playhouse 

©  Life  Begins  At  80— Jack  Barry,  emcee 
10:00  0  Father    Knows    Best— Robert    Young 

©  &  GO  Loretta   Young   Show— Dramas 

0  Break  The  Bank— $$$  jackpot 
10:30  0  &  GO  What's   My  Line?— Job   game 

©  Bob  Cummings— New  comedy 

0  Victory  At  Sea— Superb  documentary 


Luck's  Really  a  Lady 

(Continued  from,  page  61) 
Women,  in  particular,  find  the  show  a 
handy,  compact  mirror  for  viewing  their 
own  marriages,  and  invariably  see  them- 
selves in  Ethel — that  wifely  miracle  of 
good-natured  endurance.  There's  an  ex- 
ception, of  course,  but  then — that  one 
woman  is  frankly  prejudiced.  She  not 
only  plays  the  part  on  TV,  she  writes  the 
script.  And  when  Peg  Lynch  looks  at 
Ethel,  well — somehow,  she  doesn't  see 
either  of  her  selves. 

If  this  seems  a  bit  complicated,  it  isn't 
that  she  leads  a  double  life.  Actually,  it's 
a  triple  one.  Five  days  every  week,  she's 
Peg  Lynch  of  New  York  City.  Once  a 
week,  for  one-half  hour,  she's  Mrs. 
Ethel  Arbuckle  of  Sandy  Harbor.  On  her 
day  off,  the  whole  glorious  day  at  home, 
she's  Mrs.  O.  D.  Ronning  of  Stamford, 
Connecticut.  And  the  only  thing  these 
three  have  in  common  is — they  look  alike. 
Otherwise,  their  personalities  are  as  dif- 
ferent as  their  names,  their  ways  of  life 
as  separate  as  their  addresses. 

How  it  all  came  about  is  something  that 
Peg  can  tell,  but  certainly  never  write. 
As  a  professional,  she  knows  that  fate  has 
a  way  of  breaking  all  the  rules  of  good 
writing,  and  her  own  life  story  is  too  un- 
likely even  for  fiction.  Too  many  happy 
coincidences,  one  piled  on  top  of  the  other! 
Who'd  believe  it?  Who'd  ever  believe  one 
girl  could  have  so  much  luck? 

ohe  was  born  in  Lincoln,  Nebraska — the 
only  child  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hugh  Lynch. 
"But  I  have  thirty  cousins,"  Peg  reminds 
you.  She  attended  high  school  in 
Rochester,  Minnesota — which  she  considers 
her  home  town — and  went  to  college  at  the 
University  of  Minnesota.  There  she  had 
a  decision  to  make — an  important  one  for 
her.  What  should  she  be:  An  actress  or  an 
author?  Her  solution  was  characteristic: 
She'd  be  both.  So  she  majored  in  writing 
and  dramatics  and,  just  as  characteristi- 
cally, has  stuck  to  her  decision  ever  since. 

Except  in  1937,  when  she  graduated. 
Then  she  went  to  work  as  a  receptionist 
at  the  Mayo  Clinic  in  Rochester,  where  her 
mother  was  a  nurse.  It  was  only  intended 
as  a  summer  job,  but  she  stayed  eight 
months — until  she  heard  of  an  opening  at 
KATE,  the  radio  station  in  Albert  Lea, 
Minnesota. 

Peg  got  the  job,  which  involved  mostly 
writing.  She  wrote  all  the  commercials, 
some  two-hundred-and-fifty  a  week;  a 
half -hour  woman's  show,  six  days  a  week; 
and  a  half -hour  dramatic  show  for  Sun- 
days, triumphantly  billed  as  The  KATE 
Little  Theater  Of  The  Air.  In  addition, 
she  did  news,  an  occasional  sportscast, 
emceed  contests,  told  fairy  tales  in  a  studio 
crammed  with  three  hundred  children  at 
a  time,  and  got  out  the  records  for  the 
early-morning  show. 

Describing  her  fife  at  the  time,  Peg  says: 
"I  got  three  hours'  sleep  a  night.  In  bed 
by  one,  I  had  to  be  up  at  four  every 
morning.  Curiously  enough,  I  gained  ten 
pounds.  But  then,  I  ate  four  dinners  a 
day — steak  dinners!  Except  at  night  after 
work,  when  I'd  end  up  at  a  Chinese  res- 
taurant for  chow  mein." 

Asked  why  she  worked  so  hard,  Peg 
looks  surprised  at  the  question.  "I  had  a 
job,"  she  says,  indicating  all  too  clearly 
that,  in  those  days,  this  was  reason  enough 
for  anything.  "Besides,  I  was  writing.  My 
name  was  attached  to  it.  I  wanted  to  do 
the  best  I  could." 

Which  reminds  her  of  so  many  would-be 
writers  who  now  keep  asking  her  the 
secret  of  her  success.  "They  come  to  me, 
these  young  people — fresh  out  of  college. 
And  many  of  them,  I'm  ashamed  to  admit, 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR 

EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


for  classified  advertising  rates,  write  to  William  K.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Mar. -Worn.)  5 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

$200  OR  MORE  for  your  child's  photo  (all  ages-types)— if 
used  for  magazine.  Calendar,  billboard  advertising.  Send 
one  small  photo  for  approval.  Print  child's-parents  name- 
!„&e£Sr,P.n  back-  Returned  30  days.  No  obligation.  Spotlite, 
5880-CPW  Hollywood,  Hollywood  28,  California. 
FREE  CATALOG— FINEST  fashion  apparel,  lowest  prices 
anywhere!  Page  after  page  of  exciting  new  style  ideas  for 
m°ther,  children,  dad.  Money-Back  Guarantee.  Write! 
South  Carolina  Mills.  Dept.  21 9- X,  Spartanburg,  So.  Carolina. 
FREE  $72  WORTH  of  famous  name  electrical  appliances. 
home  furnishings,  apparel.  Form  a  small  friendly  Signet  Club- 
Big  catalog  and  details  free.  No  obligation.  Signet  Club  Plan. 

Dept.  5,  265  Third  St..  Cambridge,  Mass. 

WOMEN— EARN  UP  to  $40  afternoons  or  evenings  showing 
adult  and  children's  apparel  in  Homes.  New  style  Group 
Party  Plan.  Free  Outfit.  Beeline  Fashions,  Bensenville312,  III. 
$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience   unnecessary.   Crown    Industries,   7159-B 

Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog  (Plain  Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers:  $2.95  to  $22.50.  Crawford's, 

Dept.  28,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly,  mailing  folders  to  New 
Mothers.    Enclose    Stamped    addressed    envelope.    Write 

Allen  Co.,  Dept.  P103.  Warsaw,  Indiana. 

HOMEWORK!  MAILING  FOR  National  Firm.  Everything 
Supplied.   Good   Earnings.   Genmerco,   Box   142-W,   Boston 

22,  Mass. ' 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  Aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy. 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark.  

EARN   SPARE  TIME  cash   mailing  advertising   literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

SEND    OUT    POSTCARDS.    Cash    daily.    Write    Box    14, 

Belmont,  Mass. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling 
chenille  monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia32,  N.  Y. 
WE  NEED  HELP!  Send  Out  Our  Advertising  Cards.  Good 

Handwriting.  Atlas,  Box  188-G,  Melrose,  Mass. 

HOME  SEWERS  NEEDED!  Instructions,  Cash  Markets 
Furnished.  National,  Box  88,  Dorchester  22W,  Mass. 

FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

HOUSEWIVES— $80-$125  Weekly.  Our  style  shows  adult 
and  children's  apparel  are  sensational  for  party  plan.  Isabel 
Sharrow  made  $258—1 1  days  spare  time !  Free  Outfit.  Samples 
Furnished.  Birginal  Fashions,  Bensenville  299,  Illinois. 
BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  UP  to  $5  hour  demonstrat- 
ing Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  Free 
Samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  Dept.  P-35, 

Glendale,  California. 

MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 
display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept.  N-3359,  Cincinnati 

25,  Ohio. 

A  DRESS-LINGERIE  shop  in  your  home.  Sell  Fifth  Avenue, 
New  York  fashions  from  gorgeous  style  cards.  No  investment. 
Good  commission.  Write  Modern  Manner,  Dept.  8032, 
Hanover,  Pa.  In  Canada,  2081  Visitation  St.,  Montreal,  P.  Q. 
EARN  EXTRA  MONEY— Work  3-5  hrs.  at  home  daily.  Up 
to  $40  weekly  possible.  Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B.  Dunbar 
Co.,  Dept.  G3,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
AMAZING  EXTRA-MONEY  plan  gives  you  gorgeous  dress 
without  penny  cost.  Rush  name  today  with  dress  size.  C.  E. 

Israel,  Dept.  N-3165,  Cincinnati  25,  Ohio. 

HOME  WORKERS  WANTEDI  Self  employment  home  jobs 
listed.  $20-$50  weekly  possible.   No  experience  necessary. 

Maxwell,  Dept.  B3,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

SEND   POSTCARD   FOR   Free    Money-Making    Kit  guar- 
anteed direct-from-Mill  nylons,  lingerie,  blouses,  men's  and 
children's  wear.  American  Mills,  Dept.  446,  Indianapolis. 
A  DRESS  SHOP  in  your  home.  No  investment.  Liberal  sales 
commissions.   Write   Bellecraft   Fashions,   111    YZ   Eighth 

Ave.,  New  York. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
Pay.  Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Dept. 

86,  Hollywood  46,  California. 

ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOME  sewing  Baby  Shoes,  Dresses  for 
established  markets.  Thompson's,  Loganville  2,  Wisconsin. 
WOMEN.  SEW  READY-Cut  Wrap-A-Round,  spare  time — 
profitable.  Dept.  D,  Hollywood  Mfg.  Co.,  Hollywood  46,  Cal. 

PERSONAL 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men 
and  women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  en- 
dorsers. Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co.,  323 

Securities  Bldg..  Dept.  C-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Discovery!  Free 
Trial  Offer.  Write  Pixacol,  Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 
FABULOUS   COLLECTION— LARGE   U.   S.   Commemora- 
tives.  Only   10c.  Approvals.  Raymax,  39-BX   Maiden   Lane, 

New  York  City  38.    

FIRST   U.    N.   SET.   Among    World's    Prettiest.   Only  10c. 

Approvals.  Welles,  Box  1246-PX,  New  York  City  8. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 
EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-11,  Chicago 

32.  Illinois. 

MUSIC  &  MUSICAL  INSTRUMENTS 
ELECTRIC  GUITARS,  AMPLIFIERS,  etc.  Wholesale.  Free 
catalog.  Carvins,  Baldwin  Park,  Calif. 


AVIATION 

Wanted. 


AIRLINES    HOSTESS— 18-30    Wanted.    Send    $1.00    full 
information.    McConnell    Hostess    School,    1030    Nicollet, 

Minneapolis,  Minn. 

-  BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

EARN  BIG  MONEY— Invisibly  Reweave  damaged  garments 
at  home!  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  8340  Prairie.  Chicago  19. 
WOMEN  SEW  RLADY-Cut  Ties!  No  selling.  Free  Details. 
Fashion  Ties,  P.  O.  Box  2066,  Dept.  AC,  W.  Inglewood  4,  Cal. 
MONEY,    TYPING— SEWING!     Details    Free!     Edwards, 

3912-WG  12th,  DesMoines  13,  Iowa. 

HEALTH   &  MEDICAL  SERVICE 
FREE  BOOK  ON  Arthritis,  Rheumatism  explains  specialized 
system    on     non-surqical,     non-medical    treatment.    Write 

Ball  Clinic,  Dept.  750,  Excelsior  Springs,  Missouri. 

FREE  BOOK — PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  &  Minor 

Hospital,  Suite  C-313,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

ADDITIONAL  INCOME 
EARN  READY  CASH  doing  mailing  work.  No  experience 
needed.  F.  Wilson  Business  Service,  2875  Glendale  Blvd., 
tos  Angeles  39,  California. 


. MONEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid  Babbitt  $4165.00  in 
few  weeks.  Free  Book.  Washington  Mushroom  Ind.,  Dept. 

164,  2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle,  Wash. 

EXTRA  MONEY,  STUFFING-Mailing  envelopes,  3-5  hours 
at  home  daily.  $40  weekly  possible.  Our  instructions  tell  how. 
Dept.  G-3,  Education  Publishers,  4043  St.  Clair,  Cleveland 

3,  Ohio. ' ' 

WHOLESALE!  8,000  NATIONALLY  Famous  Products. 
30-80%  Discountsl  Large  Catalog.  Sensational  Business 
Plans  Included.  Consolidated  Distributors,  21-28,  Lafayette, 

Paterson  15,  New  Jersey. 

MAKE  EXTRA  DOLLARS  working  on  advertising  mailings 
Spare  Time — at  home.  Send  name,  address:  Global  Mailers, 

Dept.  768  C,  1813  South  Clinton,  Chicago  16. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORK!  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sions!    Everything     Furnished!     Hirsch's,     1301-C     Hoe, 

New  York  City  59. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  circulars  for  adver- 
tisers.  Complete  instructions — 25c.  Siwaslian,  4317-F  Gleane, 

Elmhurst  73,  N.  Y. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  day  up.  Hire  others.  Sam- 
ples,    details.    Studio    Girl-Hollywood,    Glendale,    Calif., 

Dept.  P-35b. ^_^_ 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  cash  at  home,  preparing  mailings  for 
advertisers.  Tern-Let,  Box  946,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 
EARN   SPARE  TIME  cash   mailing  advertising   literature. 
Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 


SEND    OUT    POSTCARDS.    Cash    daily. 
Belmont,  Mass. 


Write    Box    14, 


$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses. 
Company,  Greenville  7,  Penna. 


Easy.    Write    Studio 


MAKE   YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn    Money.  Send  $1.00- 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

. WORK   AT  HOME 

MONEY  PREPARING  ENVELOPES:   Instructions.  Write: 

Acme,  1324  Wilshire,  Los  Angeles  17,  Calif. 

$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.   Easy.   Write,   Studio 

Company,  Greenville  5,  Penna. 

AGENTS  WANTED  

MAKE  MONEY  GIVING  away  free  hosiery!  Introduce 
amazing  nylon  stockings  (guaranteed  against  runs  and  snags) 
and  men's-children's  hosiery  (guaranteed  one  year)  by 
giving  away  free  trial  pairs  regardless  whether  or  not  final 
purchase  is  madel  Earn  up  to  $3  hour  spare  time.  Mail  post- 
card today  for  free  samples  men's  and  women's  hosiery  with 
complete  money-making  outfits.  Nothing  to  pay  now  or  later. 
Absolutely  no  obligation.  Kendex,  Babylon  571,  N.  Y. 
ADD  TO  FAMILY  income.  Unlimited  earnings.  Work  in 
spare  time  demonstrating  household  plastics  and  toys.  No 
canvassing  or  experience  necessary.  Halliday,  17-B  Penning- 

ton  Ave.,  Passaic,  N.  J. 

SHINE  CARS  WITHOUT  "Polish."  New  Invention.  Light- 
ning  seller.  Cars  gleam  like  mirror.  Samples  sent  on  trial. 

Kristee,  245,  Akron,  Ohio. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics — nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality. 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free.  Hoover, 

Dept.  L-119,  New  York  11,  N.  Y. 

GET  OWN  DRESSES  as  Bonus  and  make  extra  money 
weekly  part  time  showing  friends  nationally  known  Maison- 
ette dresses,  lingerie,  children's  wear,  etc..  and  taking  fast 
orders.  Write  Maisonette,  4453  Sycamore  St.,  Anderson,  Ind. 

NURSING  SCHOOLS 

GIRLS-WOMEN.  PRACTICAL  Nurses  needed.  Learn 
profitable  career  at  home  easily.  Many  earn  while  learning. 
High    school    not   required.    Free    booklet.   Wayne   School, 

2525  Sheffield,  Dept.  AW-19,  Chicago  14. 

EASILY  MAKE  $65  wk.  as  Practical  Nurse.  Learn  quickly 
at  home.  No  high  school  necessary,  no  age  limit.  Write  today 
for  free  booklet,  lessons.  Post  Graduate  School  of  Nursing, 

21E35  Auditorium  Bldg.,  Chicago. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

BE  A  HOTEL  Hostess.  Enjoy  your  work!  Fascinating  posi- 
tions in  hotels,  motels,  clubs  as  Hostess,  Executive  House- 
keeper, Manager,  Social  or  Food  Director.  Lewis  Training 
quickly  qualifies  you  at  home  or  through  resident  classes  in 
Washington.  Lewis  National  Placement  Service  Free.  Write 
for  Free  Book.  39th  Year.  Course  Approved  for  All  Veteran 
Training.    Lewis    Hotel    Training    School,    Sta.    AC-2901, 

Washington  7,  D.  C. 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information   booklet-  free.   American   School,   Dept.    X374, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. ^_ 

"HOW  TO  MAKE  Money  With  Simple  Cartoons"— A  book 
everyone  who  likes  to  draw  should  have.  It  is  free;  no  obliga- 
tion.   Simply    address    Cartoonists'    Exchange,    Dept.    683, 

Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio. 

HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes,  Study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  Catalog  HCH-24,  Wayne 

School,  2527  N.  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved   materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

OLD  COINS  &   MONEY  WANTED 

$40.00  for  CERTAIN  Lincoln  cents.  Indian  heads  $50.00. 
Hundreds  of  others  $5.00-$3,000.00.  Complete  Illustrated 
Catalogue  25c.  Worthycoin  Corporation  (D-359),  Boston  8, 
Massachusetts. 


Indianheads  $50.00. 
Booklet   showing    prices   paid,   10c.    Lincoln   Coins,    D-576, 


$10.00  FOR  CERTAIN  Lincoln  pennies, 
Booklet   showing    f'~ 
Glendale,  Arizona. 


WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61 -CK,  Whitestone  57,  N.  Y. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40  weekly 
possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19.  Ohio. 
SEW  READI-CUT   Kits.  $3  to  $10  Daily  possible.   Liebig 
Industries.  Beaver  Dam  4.  Wisconsin. 

HELP  WANTED 

FOREIGN  U.  S.  JOBS  to  $18,000.  Many  overseas  countries. 
Fare  Paid.  Skilled-Unskilled  Trades,  Office.  Stamped  self- 
addressed  envelope  brings  reply.  Job  Opportunities,  Waseca, 

11M.  Minn. 

BOOKS  &   PERIODICALS 

WORRIED?  READ  "RELAX  First,  Riches  Follow."  $1.25 
Press,  Box  1022-W,  Oak  Park,  Illinois. 


75 


Use  III  I  for 

fashions  latest  -whim 
Dye  slacks  for  you 
and 
also  him ! 


The  *■)!■>  Hit  people,  famous 
for  their  Peg  Slacks,  are  now 
making  them  in  white  twill  so  you 
can  dye  them  yourself  in  exactly 

the  colors  you  want.  And  the  dye 
they  recommend  is  All  Purpose  Rit! 

We're  tickled  a  rosy  Rit  Pink 
with  the  idea,  and  think  you  will  be, 
too.  M'lfJ.'HM  Peg  Slacks  are 

trim  as  can  be  (wide  at  the  knee 
and  tapered  to  a  neat  n'  narrow  cuff), 
and  when  you  dye  them  with  Rit 
the  color  is  exclusively  yours. 


All 
Purpose 


The  finest  dye 

the  high  concentrate  dye 

and  only 


76 


also  available  in  Canada 

RIT   PRODUCTS   CORPORATION 

1437  W.  Morris  St.,  Indianapolis  6 


have  no  desire  to  do  any  work.  They 
want  to  start  right  at  the  top,  being  editor 
of  Mademoiselle  or  writing  for  one  of  the 
better  television  shows." 

Peg  tries  to  be  understanding.  She  re- 
alizes that  when  she  got  out  of  school,  the 
philosophy  of  the  times  was  different.  And 
yet,  for  herself,  she  wouldn't  have  had  it 
any  other  way.  It  was  hard  work,  but  it 
was  fun,  too.  And  she  learned  her  craft 
through  actual  experience.  It  is  signifi- 
cant, perhaps,  that — of  the  thousands  of 
commercials  she  wrote  at  Station  KATE — 
she  only  remembers  one.  It  was  for  a 
local  shoe  store,  and  it  went:  Don't  spend 
your  life  two  feet  away  from  happiness! 

After  four  months,  however,  it  occurred 
to  Peg  that  her  salary  of  seventy  dollars 
a  month  barely  managed  to  cover  all  the 
steaks  her  work  required.  "It  took  me  a 
week,"  she  recalls,  "to  get  up  the  nerve  to 
ask  the  station  manager  for  a  five-dollar 
raise.  He  refused.  'Well,  in  that  case,'  I 
said  grandly,  T  must  give  you  one  month's 
notice.'    He  accepted." 

Peg  laughs  about  it  now  but,  at  the 
time,  she  "went  home  sick."  She  had 
talked  herself  out  of  her  first  big  break. 
But  another  one — or  so  she  thought — soon 
turned  up.  A  friend  assured  her  he  could 
get  her  a  job  in  Chicago,  writing  for  a 
new  radio  show. 

"So  I  was  off  to  Chicago  to  seek  my  for- 
tune! They  gave  me  a  big  send-off  in 
Rochester,  complete  with  banners  and 
friends  seeing  me  off  at  the  station." 

But  the  promised  job  never  materialized, 
and  she  couldn't  find  any  other  work. 

"At  one  point,"  Peg  says,  "I  had  only 
twenty-five  cents  to  my  name,  and  I  was 
too  proud  to  write  home  to  mother.  I 
bought  two  peanut  butter  sandwiches  (at 
ten  cents  each)  and  Collier's  (it  was  a 
nickel  then) .  The  sandwiches  and  the 
magazine  lasted  me  three  days." 

And  then,  in  the  nick  of  time,  she  got 
a  job  in  Gary,  Indiana,  directing  a  local 
group  in  some  half-hour  radio  plays  she 
had  written.  She  was  supposed  to  get 
one  hundred  dollars  for  the  job.  They 
paid  her  fifteen.  But,  at  least  she  was  off 
her  peanut  butter  diet.  Soon  she  was  back 
to  steaks  again,  at  Station  WCHV  in  Char- 
lottesville, Virginia,  doing  the  same  kind 
of  work  she  had  done  in  Albert  Lea.  A 
year  later,  she  went  to  Station  WTBO  in 
Cumberland,  Maryland,  where  she  worked 
from  1940  to  1944,  when  a  new  management 
took  over.     Then  she  quit. 

Kut  she  had  saved  five  hundred  dollars. 
"That  ought  to  be  enough  to  last  me  two 
years  in  New  York,"  she  figured.  So  in 
March,  1944,  she  went  there  and,  right 
off,  she  found  a  three-room  apartment  in 
Manhattan's  exclusive  Gramercy  Park. 

"It  was  the  only  gamble  I  ever  took," 
Peg  says.  "The  rent  was  a  hundred  and 
ten  a  month,  and  I  was  used  to  paying 
forty  in  Cumberland.  But,  when  I  saw 
that  apartment,  I  had  to  have  it." 

The  landlady  had  already  promised  it 
to  a  married  couple,  but  she  finally  gave  it 
to  Peg.  "Because  you  love  it  so,"  she  said. 
"And  you're  from  Minnesota.  You'll  keep 
it  clean." 

So  Peg  parted  with  over  a  fifth  of  her 
five-hundred-dollar  stake  and  moved  in. 
The  utilities  had  not  yet  been  turned  on. 
There  was  no  phone,  no  light,  no  heat. 
"But  I'm  here!"  she  said  in  the  darkness. 
"I  don't  have  a  job,  but  I'm  here. 

"Oh,  I  was  so  thrilled!"  she  recalls. 

The  very  next  day,  there  was  still  no 
phone.  But,  if  opportunity  really  wants 
to  knock,  it  can  usually  find  a  messenger 
boy.  This  particular  boy  brought  a  tele- 
gram from  ABC,  asking  if  they  could  see 
Peg  about  that  show  of  hers — Ethel  And 
Albert.  One  month  later,  a  fifteen-minute 
version  became  a  regular  daily  feature  of 


the  network,  with  Peg  writing  the  scripts 
and  co-starring  as  Ethel. 

Here  the  life-story  does  a  flashback — 
back  to  1938,  when  Ethel  And  Albert  was 
born.  It  happened  on  the  second  day  of 
Peg's   first   job— at   Station   KATE. 

"I  was  bored  writing  commercials,"  she 
explains.  "When  I  was  on  the  air,  I 
worked  with  a  male  announcer.  Somehow, 
he  became  Albert — and  soon  we  were  do- 
ing a  daily  three-minute  skit.  Then  it 
was  six  minutes.  I  couldn't  seem  to  shut 
up — by  the  time  I  got  to  Cumberland,  it 
was  one-half  hour." 

Ethel  And  Albert  proved  so  popular 
there,  as  a  daytime  show,  that  the  station 
manager  scheduled  it  for  an  evening  spot 
— at  the  same  time  Lowell  Thomas  broad- 
cast on  a  competing  station.  The  women 
of  Cumberland  insisted  upon  hearing 
Ethel  And  Albert.  Their  husbands  insisted 
upon  hearing  Lowell  Thomas  and  the 
news.  The  ensuing  controversy  reached 
such  proportions  that  the  daily  paper 
started  carrying  the  latest  battle  reports. 

In  1944,  when  the  show  became  a  net- 
work radio  serial,  a  young  actor  named 
Richard  Widmark  won  the  auditions  for 
the  role  of  Albert.  Six  months  later,  how- 
ever, he  appeared  in  a  Broadway  play 
and  soon  deserted  Ethel  for  Hollywood. 
More  auditions  were  held,  and  another 
Albert  was  chosen.  It  was  Alan  Bunce, 
a  Broadway  actor  who  had  appeared  in 
over  thirty  plays  and  innumerable  radio 
shows — including  six  years  as  Young  Doc- 
tor Malone.  He  has  been  faithful  to 
Ethel,  in  his  TV  fashion,  ever  since.  (In 
private  life,  he  is  married  and  has  three 
children.) 

In  the  fall  of  1949,  Ethel  and  Albert  be- 
came a  half-hour  nighttime  show — but 
then  it  was  canceled  for  lack  of  a  sponsor. 
The  same  day  that  Peg  learned  the  news — 
before  the  story  had  had  time  to  make 
the  rounds — an  NBC  executive  called  on 
her.  He  wanted  to  know  how  tied  up  she 
was  with  ABC.  Not  too  tied  up,  she  as- 
sured him.  And  that's  how  she  got  her 
first  break  in  TV. 

Today,  when  the  would-be  writers  come 
to  her,  asking  how  she  became  a  success, 
Peg  tells  them:  "It's  a  matter  of  split-sec- 
ond timing.  It  depends  on  luck  and  things 
you've  no  control  over.  Naturally,  you've 
got  to  be  ready  for  your  break.  If  you 
haven't  prepared  for  it,  you  won't  stay  on 
top.     But  getting  to  the  top — that's  luck!" 

In  her  own  case,  she  had  come  to  New 
York  with  only  a  vague  hope  of  selling 
some  audition  scripts  she  had  written  for 
Claudia.  Instead,  a  day  after  she  rented 
the  apartment  she  couldn't  afford,  ABC 
contacted  her.  Because  they  "happened" 
to  hear  of  Ethel  And  Albert.  Because  they 
"happened"  to  need  a  new  daytime  show 
at  the  moment.  In  the  same  way,  out  of 
nowhere,  she  received  an  offer  to  ap- 
pear on  NBC-TV  the  very  day  she  was 
canceled  by  ABC  Radio. 

In  September,  1950,  Ethel  And  Albert 
first  appeared  on  TV  as  a  ten-minute  epi- 
sode on  The  Kate  Smith  Hour.  The  fol- 
lowing year,  it  was  a  regular  feature  of 
Kate's  nighttime  as  well  as  her  daytime 
show.  And  in  April,  1953,  it  became  the 
half-hour  show  which  is  seen  on  NBC-TV. 

As  further  proof  that  it  all  "depends  on 
luck  and  things  you've  no  control  over," 
Peg  cites  the  accidental  story  of  her  mar- 
riage. Odd  (that's  his  name!)  Knut  Ron- 
ning  is  her  third  cousin.  In  1946,  he  left 
his  home  in  Norway  to  take  some  addi- 
tional engineering  courses  at  Syracuse 
University.  Peg  didn't  meet  him  until  a 
year  later,  at  a  family  dinner.  And,  even 
then,  she  didn't  pay  much  attention.  He 
was  a  distant  relative,  and  she  was  going 
with   someone   else   at  the  time. 

But  one   day,   at  a  party,   a  girl  friend 


gasped  and  said:    "Peg,  who's  that  man?" 

Peg     looked.     "Oh,     he's     my     cousin." 

"What  do  you  mean — he's  your  cousin? 
He's  the  handsomest  man  I've  ever  seen!" 

Peg  looked  again.  She  saw  that  it  was 
so.  She  married  him  on  August  12,  1948, 
at  New  York's  Little  Church  Around  the 
Corner. 

But  it  wasn't  just  looks.  "He's  one  of  the 
nicest  people  I've  ever  known,"  Peg  says, 
"with  the  most  remarkable  disposition.  In 
our  six  years  of  marriage,  we've  never  had 
one  disagreement."  She  smiles.  "He's  not 
at  all  like  Albert.    That  probably  helps." 

She  still  remembers,  almost  with  awe, 
the  one  time  Odd  claims  he  lost  his  tem- 
per. "He  had  come  down  from  Syracuse 
to  finish  his  thesis.  I  could  hear  him  in 
the  next  room,  swearing  in  Norwegian. 
Then  he  came  into  my  room  and  an- 
nounced: 'I'm  going  to  take  a  walk.'  When 
he  returned,  I  said:  'Is  anything  wrong, 
dear?'    He  said  no,  and  that  was  that." 

Six  months  later,  however,  the  Ronnings 
had  the  following  conversation: 

"I  want  to  apologize  to  you,"  he  said. 
"I'm  sorry  I  lost  my  temper." 

"When  was  that,  dear?"  she  asked. 

"Why,  that  night  I  got  so  mad  I  went 
for  a  walk." 

Silence — as  Peg  tries  to  remember  when 
in  creation  that  was. 

"If  I'm  ever  mad,"  he  continues,  "I  want 
you  to  know:  I'm  mad  at  myself — for 
something  I've  done.  I'm  never  mad  at 
you." 

Peg  still  can't  believe  her  luck.  Who's 
two  feet  away  from  happiness  now?  And 
on  June  18,  1951,  Astrid  Elise  was  born.  .  .  . 

Today,  the  Ronnings  live  in  Stamford, 
one  of  those  lovely  Connecticut  towns 
where  successful  New  Yorkers  go  to  plant 
their  roots — once  the  first  child  comes. 
Their  eight-room  home  was  built  in  1728, 
when  people  knew  how  to  make  the  kitchen 
big  enough  to  live  in — and  the  fireplace 
big  enough  for  a  whole  family  to  dream  in 
front  of.  And  the  family  now  includes 
Peg's  mother  and  aunt,  who  care  for  Astrid 
Elise  when  Peg  is  in  New  York  working 
on  the  show. 

She  wishes  she  had  more  time  to  spend 
at  home.  It  works  no  hardship  on  Odd, 
whose  job  as  a  consultant  engineer  for  a 
machine-manufacturing  firm  keeps  him 
traveling  all  week.  But  what  about  her 
daughter?  Didn't  she  envy  the  girl  next 
door  whose  mother  was  with  her  all  the 
time? 

The  other  day,  Peg  asked  her  outright. 
Astrid  Elise,  who  speaks  like  an  adult,  for 
all  her  three-and-a-half  years,  considered 
the  question  carefully. 

"Well,  yes,"  she  admitted.  "I'm  sorry 
you  have  to  work.  But  as  for  the  girl  next 
door — "  She  hugged  Peg  impulsively. 
"Her  mother  isn't  on  television!" 


,.**** 


■:■■■•■  " 


JUST  OUT!  THE  MOST  EXCITING 
EVENT  OF  THE  YEAR! 


The  gorgeous  new  TV-Radio  Annual  is  now 
available  to  you.  This  exciting  1955  yearbook 
is  better  than  ever !  It  covers  all  the  Television 
and  Radio  events  of  the  year.  You'll  enjoy  the 
hundreds  of  new  illustrations  and  you'll  be 
simply  thrilled  to  read  the  behind-the-scenes 
stories  of  all  your  favorite  stars.  Below  is  a 
brief  description  of  this  really  important  An- 
nual: 

NEWS  EVENTS  OF  THE  YEAR— The  behind-the- 
scenes  stories  of  Eve  Arden  and  Brooks  West 

•  Anne  Jeffreys  and  Robert  Sterling  •  Flor- 
ence Halop  •  Bob  Smith  •  Paul  Dixon  •  Steve 
Allen  and  Jayne  Meadows  •  Wally  Cox  •  Jack 
Webb  •  Milton  Berle. 

NEW  SHOWS  OF  THE  YEAR— Stars  new  and  old, 
who  helped  make  recent  history.  Robert  Q. 
Lewis  •  Sid  Caesar  •  Imogene  Coca  •  Florian 
ZaBach  •  Edgar  Bergen  •  George  Gobel  • 
Jack  Paar  •  Betty  White  •  Michael  O'Shea 

•  James  Dunn  •  William  Bishop  •  Eddie 
Mayehoff  •  Gil  Stratton,  Jr. 

WHO'S  WHO  ON — Breakfast  Club  •  Father 
Knows  Best  •  Beat  The  Clock  •  Two  For  The 
Money  •  The  Garry  Moore  Show  •  Your  Hit 
Parade  •  The  Halls  Of  Ivy  •  Our  Miss  Brooks 

•  Masquerade  Party  •  My  Favorite  Husband  • 
Fibber  McGee  And  Molly  •  Lassie  •  The  Big 
Payoff  •  The  Jackie  Gleason  Show. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES — Arthur  Godfrey  •  Ozzie 
and  Harriet  Nelson  •  Ralph  Edwards  •  Bert 
Parks  e  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  •  Warren  Hull 


•  Bill  Cullen  •  Roy  Rogers  •  Gene  Autry  • 
Red  Buttons  •  Jack  Bailey  •  Jack  Barry  •  Ed 
Sullivan  •  Art  Linkletter  •  Donald  O'Connor 

•  Jimmy  Durante  •  Tom  Moore. 

GORGEOUS  NEW  COLOR  PORTRAITS  OF  THE  STARS— 

Thrilling  4-color  photographs  of  Liberace  • 
Lucille  Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz  •  Eddie  Fisher 

•  Gale  Storm.  These  full  page  true-to-life  por- 
traits are  so  unusual  that  you  will  want  to 
frame  each  one  of  them! 

PLUS — Pictures  and  biographies  from  the  most 
beloved   daytime   dramas   on   radio   and  TV. 

ONLY   50c— WHILE  THEY   LAST 

This  terrific  Annual  is  a  sell-out  each  year.  No 
wonder — everybody  wants  a  copy  and  only  a 
limited  number  are  printed.  Send  50c  with 
coupon  for  your  copy  TODAY 

....  MAIL  COUPON  TODAY  — 

TV-RADIO  MIRROR  RM-355 

205  E.  42nd  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  TV-RADIO 
ANNUAL  1955.  I  enclose  50c. 


Name. 


Please  Print 


Address 

City State . 


77 


78 


DON'T 

PAY  MORE 

for  these 
high-quality  features! 


Garry  Moore — Seriously  Speaking 


"SHAPE-INSURED". . .  miracle  fabric  interlining 
guarantees  its  shape— and  yours— for  the  life  of 
the  bra.  Retains  permanent  uplift  thru 
countless  washings !  Elastic 
gore  for  midriff  ease! 

No.  4077,  Broadcloth; 

Pink,  White. 

No.  5077,  Acetate  Satin; 

Pink,  White,  Black. 

AA  Cup  30-36;  A  32-38;  B  32-40;  C  34-44. 


$100 


1 


"CRADLE-CUP"  ..Divided  Strap-Action  relieves 
shoulder  strain,  supports  and  "cradles"  gently 
but  firmly!  Elasticized  straps  and  diaphragm  . . . 
circle  stitching  tor  allure! 

Style  4135.  White  Broad- 
cloth. Style  5135.  White 
Acetate  Satin.  A  Cup  32- 
36,  B  Cup  32-40;  C  Cup 
34-42 


$100 


1 


BRAS  AND  GIRDLES 
FOR  FIGURE-WISE  WOMEN! 

At  your  nearest  Variety  Store  — 
the  smart  woman's  shopping  center! 


(Continued  from  page  35) 
accident  that  he  frequently  philosophizes, 
for  he   gives   much  thought  to   the   rela- 
tionships between  people. 

"But  it's  my  great  frustration  that  I  can't 
fully  practice  what  I  preach,"  Garry  says. 
"You  know  every  program  is  closed  with 
'Goodbye — and  be  kind  to  each  other.'  I 
can't  be.  I'd  need  twenty -eight  nights  a 
week  and  sixty  hours  in  every  day  to  be 
properly  thoughtful  of  others." 

He  is  referring  to  the  many  organiza- 
tions which  ask  him  to  lend  his  services 
in  fund  drives.  He  is  thinking  of  the  many 
young  entertainers  and  parents  of  talented 
youngsters  who  ask  for  auditions.  He  is 
remembering  all  of  the  benefits  in  which 
he  is  constantly  being  asked  to  work.  He 
recalls  specifically  the  woman  who  wanted 
him  to  adopt  her  child. 

"It  was  heartbreaking."  A  woman  had 
written  in  detail  about  her  children — three 
of  them.  She  couldn't  support  them. 
Would  Garry  adopt  one?  "What  could  I 
do  about  it?  How  could  I  accept  the  re- 
sponsibility?" He  shakes  his  head  and 
goes  on,  "I  don't  know  what  I  am.  People 
have  asked  me  what  I  do  on  television. 
I'm  not  a  comedian.  I'm  not  an  emcee. 
I'm  no  singer.    What  kind  of  beans  am  I?" 

In  the  first  fifteen  of  his  twenty  years  in 
show  business,  Garry  was  a  writer,  a 
comedian,  a  straight  man,  a  quizmaster. 

"Now  I'm  a  I-don't-know-what'  in  tele- 
vision. It's  very  comfortable.  It  fits — but 
what  is  it?  It  took  me  a  long  time  to  get 
here,  but  it  seems  like  I've  been  here  only 
a  few  days  instead  of  five  years." 

Garry  has  a  reputation  for  talking  very 
little  about  Garry.  It's  not  that  he's  se- 
cretive, bashful,  or  hiding  a  terrible  past. 
It's  just  beans  again. 

"I'm  the  can  of  beans,"  he  points  out, 
"and  that's  the  trouble.  The  average  man 
makes  and  sells  a  can  of  beans.  He  thinks 
about  how  he  can  improve  the  taste,  make 
a  more  attractive  package.  But  me — I've 
got  only  myself.  I  got  beans  in  my  head. 
I'm  my  own  product.  That's  why  actors 
are  hams.  So  what  I  do  is  try  not  to 
think  about  myself.  I  just  try  to  put  on 
a  show  by  nice  people  and  for  nice  people." 

Cxarry  is  phenomenal.  He  never  loses 
his  temper.  He  runs  his  rehearsals  quietly 
and  courteously.  He  is  simply  a  practi- 
tioner of  the  Golden  Rule.  He  trusts  peo- 
ple, and  they  don't  let  him  down.  He 
gives  his  audience  credit  for  being  smart 
and  understanding,  and  they  react  like 
adults.  It's  as  though  they  figured  that 
Garry  leads  a  normal  kind  of  life  rather 
than  that  of  a  hectic  Broadway  character. 
And  they  figure  right. 

Garry  may  be  just  a  can  of  beans.  But, 
like  the  average  man,  at  eight  every 
morning  he  is  headed  for  work.  And 
every  evening  at  five,  except  those  days 
he  works  late,  he  leaves  his  office  to  go 
home.  Home  is  in  Rye,  New  York,  and 
home  is  populated  with  a  wife,  two  sons, 
and  Sam,  his  springer  spaniel.  And  Garry 
in  Rye  is  just  another  man  in  Rye. 

"The  people  of  Rye  have  been  good  to 
us,"  Garry  says.  "They  have  accepted  us 
as  neighbors  and  people — not  show  people. 
No  one  expects  me  to  break  into  a  comedy 
bit.  To  the  grocer,  I'm  just  a  guy  who 
buys  beans." 

Garry  is  home  for  dinner  four  or  five 
nights  a  week.  He  and  his  wife  Nell  have 
been  married  fifteen  years.  They  have  two 
sons:  Mason,  fourteen,  who  is  in  prep 
school,  and  Garry,  Jr.,  eleven.  Father  and 
Mother  act  very  ordinary  at  home — they 
think  and  talk  about  their  children,  the 
weather,  politics,  work. 

If  there's   a   little  sun   left   in   the   yard 


when  Garry  gets  home,  he  may  go  out  and 
play  ball  with  the  boys.  He  stays  away 
from  their  craft  hobbies — claims  he's  too 
clumsy  with  his  hands.  Come  evening,  he 
likes  to  pile  on  a  stack  of  jazz  records — 
Erroll  Garner  or  the  old  Goodman  band 
or  Mildred  Bailey — and  then  pick  up  a 
book.  Parties  are  usually  small,  and  it  is 
seldom  that  anyone  is  there  from  the  "busi- 
ness." And  parties  are  usually  the  quiet, 
talking  kind. 

The  only  work  he  consciously  carries 
home  will  be  in  a  couple  of  big  manila  en- 
velopes on  the  beginning  of  a  weekend. 
That  would  be  several  hundred  letters 
from  his  audience.  Winter  weekends  are 
spent  reading  letters  and  books,  playing  a 
little  ball  with  the  boys  and,  perhaps,  go- 
ing for  a  long  walk. 

In  the  summer,  the  whole  country 
knows  how  Garry  spends  his  weekends. 
He's  out  on  his  sailboat,  usually  with  his 
family.  Aboard  the  boat,  he's  just  what 
he  wants  to  be — merely  a  guy  on  a  boat. 

"You  get  caught  out  in  a  storm,  no  one 
cares  what  your  rating  is,"  he  says.  "You 
can't  show  your  clippings  to  a  storm." 

On  his  fifteenth  wedding  anniversary, 
his  office  staff  gave  him  a  bottle  of  cham- 
pagne. Garry  didn't  throw  a  party  and 
he  didn't  take  his  wife  night-clubbing. 
Garry  took  Nell  out  on  the  boat,  he  took 
the  boat  to  a  quiet  cove,  and  dropped 
anchor.  In  the  moonlight,  in  the  company 
of  some  clams,  they  toasted  each  other 
with  paper  cups. 

And  then  there  was  the  wedding  he  and 
Nell  attended  in  a  neighboring  town.  They 
didn't  drive  over,  they  sailed  over.  Garry 
changed  into  a  dinner  jacket,  aboard  the 
boat,  went  to  the  wedding,  passed  through 
the  reception  line,  returned  to  his  boat 
and  instantly  got  back  into  his  rags. 

"You  hate  dressing  up,"  a  friend  noted. 

"No,  I  hate  having  people  get  married  or 
buried  on  Saturday  and  Sunday,"  he  ex- 
plained— adding,  "in  the  summer  only,  of 
course." 

But  last  summer  the  Moores  didn't 
spend  their  entire  vacation  on  the  boat. 
They  went  to  Europe.  They  did  all  the 
tourist  sights.  They  did  only  one  unusual 
thing — they  took  no  pictures.  In  Paris, 
son  Mason  proudly  translated  for  them. 
In  Rome,  Garry  tried  to  call  his  office  and 
they  didn't  believe  him — why  would  Garry 
Moore  be  calling  Garry  Moore  and  ask  to 
have  the  charges  reversed?  In  London, 
an  American  tourist  walked  up  to  Garry 
and  said,  "You  wouldn't  believe  it,  but  at 
home  we  have  a  man  on  television  who 
looks  just  like  you."  Garry  remained 
silent  and  very  British. 

"When  we  got  back  to  New  York,"  he 
recalled,  "I  found  they  had  saved  three 
fifteen-minute  periods  in  the  first  week 
for  me  to  talk  about  the  trip.  I  had 
nothing  to  talk  about.  Nothing  exciting 
had  happened  to  me." 

For  Garry  it  reads  this  way:  What's  the 
fun  of  being  a  celebrity  if  they  treat  you 
like  one?  It  makes  him  uncomfortable. 
He  got  it,  coming  and  going,  when  he 
and  Mason  went  school-hunting.  Garry 
used  his  legal  name  of  Garrison  Morfit, 
but  inevitably  there  was  the  recogni- 
tion. One  headmaster  inferred  young 
Mason  would  have  special  privileges — so 
his  school  received  no  more  consideration 
than  a  girl's  seminary.  And  then  there 
was  the  evening  they  wanted  to  relax  at 
a  movie,  but  the  manager  of  the  theater 
recognized  Garry  waiting  in  line.  He  in- 
sisted Garry  come  in  as  his  guest  and  then 
seated  him  in  the  loge.  But  just  as  Garry 
got  into  the  picture,  the  manager  pro- 
duced the  mayor  to  phake  hands  and  then, 


a  few  minutes  later,  the  chief  of  police  and 
then  the  mascot  of  the  police.  Garry 
would  have  been  just  as  well  off  signing 
autographs  on  42nd  and  Broadway. 

The  upsetting  incident,  however,  re- 
volved around  a  simple  hamburger.  Gar- 
ry likes  his  "wimpies" — all  of  his  life,  he's 
lied  them.  There  was  the  day  he  walked 
into  a  hamburger  joint  as  usual  and,  logi- 
cally enough,  ordered  a  hamburger.  A 
girl  nudged  her  boyfriend  and  said, 
"There's  Garry  Moore." 

The  boyfriend  sneered  and  said,  "What's 
he  trying  to  prove — that  he's  not  afraid 
to  eat  with  us  poor  people?" 

That  hamburger  didn't  taste  very  good. 

"That  kind  of  people  are  the  five  per 
cent,"  Garry  says.  "I've  always  called 
them  'the  lunatic  fringe.'  I  don't  worry 
about  them — but  they  make  me  unhappy. 
People  as  a  whole,  I  trust.  They  do  the 
right  thing.  You  get  the  proof  of  it  in 
our  democracy." 

There's  proof  in  Garry's  mail,  too.  Dian 
Jennings,  who  is  one  of  Garry's  secretaries 
and  assists  with  production,  works  with 
Garry  on  his  mail. 

"People  adore  him.  They  feel  close  to 
him,"  she  says. 

They  knock  themselves  out  with  home- 
made gifts.  Some  know  he's  fond  of  pea- 
nut butter  and  send  in  peanut  butter 
cookies  and  candy.  He's  received  china 
with  paintings  of  sailboats.  He's  had  mink 
bow  ties  and  a  rayon  bow  tie  embroidered 
with  seed  pearls. 

Garry  doesn't  take  his  responsibilities 
lightly.  He  reads  criticisms  from  his  audi- 
ence. He  is  interested  in  their  problems. 
He  likes  to  talk  about  such  things  as 
loneliness  and  explain  that  it's  a  universal 
condition.  He  talks  of  the  value  of  a 
smile.  He  is  intolerant  of  intolerance. 

"We're  most  of  us  too  hard  on  each 
other — strangers,  friends,  wives  and  chil- 
dren," he  says.  "You  know  how  I  feel 
about  defects.  Everyone  has  them.  We 
don't  persecute  a  cripple  for  a  lame  leg, 
so  why  should  we  harp  on  each  other  for 
our  faults?     It  doesn't  make  sense. 

"It's  so  much  easier  to  be  nice  to  people," 
says  Garry.  "And  it's  so  much  easier  for 
them  to  get  along  with  you.  It  makes 
sense." 

(jrenerally  speaking,  he  is  courteous  and 
polite — the  atmosphere  at  his  rehearsal  is 
as  refined  as  a  tea  party.  He  is  fair  and 
honest.  He  gives  of  himself  generously. 
But  he  prefers  not  to  be  thought  of  as 
sanctimonious — so  he  tells  stories  on  him- 
self. 

"There  was  my  Boy  Scout  day,"  he  re- 
calls, "and  I  was  on  the  elevator.  A  very 
young  girl  came  on,  and  she  was  all  dressed 
up  and  very  pretty.  I  thought  to  myself: 
Now  practice  what  you  preach  and  make 
the  little  girl  feel  good — so  I  said,  'You  do 
look  beautiful.'  Well,  the  girl  thought  I 
was  the  boogie-man  and  turned  red.  The 
elevator  boy  knew  me  and  knew  better, 
and  he  gagged  holding  in  his  laughter  all 
the  way  down.  I  felt  like  two  cents." 

There  was  the  day  Garry  was  walking 
across  town.  _He  was  following  a  well- 
dressed  man  who  looked  very  neat  except 
that  his  shirt  tail  was  hanging  out.  Garry 
argued  with  himself  as  to  whether  he 
should  catch  up  with  the  man  and  tell 
him.  Finally,  he  and  the  man  stopped 
next  to  each  other  at  a  corner  waiting  for 
a  traffic  light  to  change. 

Garry  whispered  quickly,  "Your  shirt's 
hanging  out." 

The  man,  embarrassed,  just  mumbled, 
tucked  his  shirt  in — then  turned  to  Garry 
and  said,  'Why  don't  you  mind  your  own 
business?" 

Garry  grins. 

"What  could  I  have  said  to  him?  I'm 
just  a  can  of  beans." 


''Who'd  bQ//Q\/e  /was  eiser 
embarrassed  6y  P/MPLE&/" 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 


SKIN-COLORED 

HIDES  PIMPLES  WHILE  IT  WORKS 

Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely 
improved  while  using  CLEARASIL. 

Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil  actually 
starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the  oils 
that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  CLEARASlL's  anti- 
septic action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria  that 
can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored  to 
hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless —  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 

America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication. ..because  CLEARASIL  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED  to 
work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or  money 
back.59(fand98(f.Atalldruggists.GetCLEARASIL 
today.  (Available  in  Canada,  slightly  more.) 


TIPS  for  EXPECTAHT  MOTHERS 


FREE  booklet  of  valuable  informa- 
tion, "Tips  for  Expectant  Mothers", 
is  offered  with  this  soothing,  re- 
freshing skin  conditioner  thai 
softens  tight,  dry  skin,  eases  muscu- 
lar tingling  and  burning  in^ 
back  and  legs.  Enjoy  the  /^T^X 
Comfort  and  Relief  of  This  ( ° " 
Skin  Lubricant. 
$1.25  AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES 

Mother's  Friend 


a  BLONDES 

ROMANCE 

TURNS  TO 

WEDDING 

BELLS! 


In  just  6  short  weeks— and  with  the  help  of  my  GOLDEN 
BLONDE  HAIR  — I  captured  my  guy  ...  for  good!  I 
wouldn't  say  it  was  ENTIRELY  the  result  of  my  ll-minute 
BLONDEX  Beauty  Bath,  but  that  shining,  radiant  color 
surely  attracted  him  and  held  him,  too.  BLONDEX,  the 
new  "creamy"  shampoo,  specially  for  blondes,  is  made 
at  home  FRESH  as  you  need  it.  Quickly  whipping  into  a 
creamy,  billowy  lather,  Blondex  instantly  removes  the 
dull,  dingy  film  that  makes  hair  dark,  old-looking,  brings 
out  light,  lustrous  shine  and  sparkling  highlights  men 
love.  Get  BLONDEX  today  at  IOC,  drug  or  dept.  stores. 


Why  suffer  needlessly  from 

bronchial  asthma? 

Light  an  ASTHMADOR  cigarette 
...or  use  the  powder  or  pipe 
mixture,  and  get  welcome  re- 
lief from  the  agonizing  symp- 

i  toms  of  bronchial  asthma.  Dr. 

|  R.Schiffmann's  ASTHMADOR 

'  is  known  everywhere . . .  sold 
in  drugstores  everywhere  in 
the  U.S.  and  Canada. 

ASTHMADOR 


I  DON'T  SPEND  A  CENT 
FOR  SHUTS  OR  TOMLS! 


Why  should  I.  when  I  can  get  all  the 
Cannon  sheets,  towels  and  pillowcases 
I  want  WITHOUT  A  PENNY  OF 
COST.  And  that's  not  all!  I've  discov- 
ered a  wonderful  way  to  get  Bates 
Bedspreads  and  Draperies.  Dormeyer 
Mixers,  Hoover  Vacuum  Cleaners. 
Proctor  Toasters,  Presto  Steam  Irons, 
hundreds  of  things  without  cost  I" 
You  can  too,  just  by  being  Secretary 

of    a    Popular    Club    you    help    your 

friends  form.  It's  easy,  it's  fun. 

Write  for  Big  fRIB  Catalog 

Hundreds    of   items'  to   choose    from. 

Nothing  to  sell,  nothing  to  buy. 

I  Popular    Club    Plan,    Dept.    E-907,    Lynbrook.    N.    Y. 
!  Send  Big   FREE   228   Page   FULL   COLOR    Catalog. 

■  Name 

|   Address 

|  City     s'ate 

■  Popular   Club   Secretaries:    You   will    nutomitically    re- 

ceive  this  new   catalog   soou! 


79 


Lord  Henry  Discovers  America 


"AUTOMATIC" 
EYEBROW  AND  EYE  Ul 
PENCIL 

Velvet  Black,  Dark  Brown, 
Light  Brown  or  Auburn . 
Elegant  turquoise  and  gold  case! 

"tWIN^FILLS,  39^ 


^     v 

V 


■79* 


(Continued  from  page  62) 
opera  and  ballet,  the  fabulous  restaurants 
and  the  foods  from  all  over  the  world,  the 
museums  and  art  galleries,  the  famous 
stores  and  shops  along  the  equally  famous 
avenues,  and  the  chic,  pretty  girls. 

There  are  many  interests  he  shares  with 
Lord  Henry — outdoor  interests,  such  as 
hunting  and  riding  and  fishing.  Alastair, 
too,  has  followed  the  hidden  trails  and  the 
splashing  streams,  not  only  in  this  country, 
but  in  places  as  widely  separated  as  the 
Austrian  Tyrol  and  the  bush  country  of 
Australia.  As  you  might  guess  from  his 
name,  he  is  of  Scottish  ancestry.  The  mark 
of  the  Celts  is  upon  his  jet-black  hair  and 
eyes  and  his  ready  wit.  His  accent  is  a 
toned-down  mixture  of  all  the  Britons  you 
have  ever  heard — and  just  different  enough 
from  them  all  to  be  intriguing.  Something 
under  thirty  years  ago  he  was  born  in 
London,  of  seafaring  forebears  who  had 
known  all  the  seven  seas  and  all  the  lands 
they  touch,  and  who  would  have  thought 
of  no  other  way  of  life.  Alastair's  father, 
following  the  pattern,  is  now  master  of 
a  British  liner. 

Small  wonder,  then,  that  this  young 
Briton  wanted  some  sort  of  adventurous 
life  of  his  own,  even  if  not  that  of  the  sea, 
and  was  filled  with  the  urge  to  go  off  to 
new  places.  Which  is  why,  up  to  now — 
up  to  the  time  of  this  "love  affair"  with 
New  York — home  has  seemed  a  place  to 
alight  for  a  time,  unencumbered  by  many 
possessions. 

Somehow,  one  can't  imagine  this  young 
Mr.  Duncan  ever  having  been  the  sort 
who  wondered  what  his  next  move  should 
be.  In  spite  of  a  boyish  manner  which  is 
completely  lacking  in  any  brashness,  he 
seems  so  certain,  so  poised.  This  certainty 
began  in  school,  in  England,  when  he  had 
already  decided  what  he  wanted  to  do  with 
his  life:  To  be  an  actor,  and  to  see  the 
whole  world.  His  father  had  been  impatient 
with  the  former  and  entirely  in  accord 
with  the  latter— he  wanted  his  only  child 
to  become  a  civil  servant  and  do  his  travel- 
ing on  holidays  or  in  the  service  of  his 
country. 

Alastair,  however,  had  been  in  school 
plays  and  had  received  good  notices;  his 
mind  was  made  up.  It  was  only  after  he 
took  a  competitive  examination  for  a 
Royal  Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts  scholar- 
ship— and  won  it — that  his  father  decided 
the  boy  might  have  talent  enough  to  be- 
come a  professional.  So,  at  sixteen,  Ala- 
stair's  formal  training  as  an  actor  began, 
followed  by  considerable  stage  experience 
and  three  and  a  half  years  of  broadcasting 
over  the  BBC  radio — chiefly  in  dramatic 
roles. 

"My  father  was  now  quite  satisfied,"  he 
says.  "There  was  something  very  profes- 
sional and  proper  about  being  on  the  BBC. 
For  one  thing,  I  had  routine  hours,  very 
like  those  of  the  ordinary  businessman — 
or  civil  servant — and  not  like  an  actor's. 
My  broadcasting  career  was  interrupted, 
of  course,  by  four  years  of  army  service, 
in  the  Near  East,  France  and  Germany, 
and  when  the  day  came  at  last,  back  on 
the  BBC,  that  the  life  seemed  altogether 
too  routine  for  someone  with  itchy  feet,  I 
received  an  offer  to  go  to  Sydney,  Aus- 
tralia, to  work  on  radio.  The  years  in  the 
army,  coupled  with  that  old  inherited  urge 
to  see  the  world,  made  the  decision  easy." 
He  went  for  one  year,  and  stayed  two. 
"But,"  he  says,  "it  took  a  bit  of  doing  to 
make  that  first  plunge  from  a  safe  job 
into  the  unknown.  It  was  the  Australians 
themselves  who  later  taught  me  not  to 
fear  distance,  no  matter  how  great.  They 
think  nothing  of  journeying  five  hundred 
miles  to  spend  a  weekend  at  some  favorite 


spot  or  with  someone  they  like.  Occasion- 
ally, another  actor  will  say  to  you  that  he 
is  going  back  to  England  for  a  quick  visit, 
and  you  are  not  at  all  surprised  at  the 
miles  he  will  cover  to  spend  a  brief  time 
at  'home.'  The  whole  idea  of  vast  spaces 
stretches  your  own  vision  and,  after  a 
while,  you  lose  any  awe  of  distance." 

Whenever  he  could,  Alastair  got  into 
his  jeep  and  went  off  on  trips  deep  into 
the  bush  country.  Because  the  people  in  the 
"outback"  lead  rather  lonely  lives,  he  was 
made  welcome  wherever  he  went,  asked 
to  join  families  at  dinner,  persuaded  to 
stay  for  the  night. 

"Their  hospitality  is  a  real  experience," 
he  says  of  the  people  who  live  Down 
Under.  "All  the  things  which  happened  to 
me  in  Australia,  and  which  have  happened 
to  me  since,  have  strengthened  my  belief 
that — while  one  has  the  will  to  learn  and 
to  work — one  can  go  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth  and  back  again,  and  always  rebound." 
The  work  in  Sydney  proved  diversified 
and  exciting,  from  playing  classical  and 
modern  drama  on  radio  to  doing  a  sprightly 
stage  revue  in  which  Alastair  was  both 
leading  man  and  a  co-author.  He  lectured 
on  dramatic  verse  and  did  poetry  readings, 
jobs  he  loved.  He  even  wrote  scripts  for 
some  half -hour  radio  thrillers,  which  he 
found  instructive.  But  always  there  was 
time  for  hunting  and  fishing,  for  continu- 
ing to  explore  the  country,  for  getting  to 
know  the  people,  for  enjoying  the  beaches 
and  the  swimming.  "Not  enough  has  ever 
been  told  about  those  beaches,"  he  says. 
"When  I  stopped  off  at  Waikiki,  on  my  way 
to  California,  I  could  not  help  but  contrast 
it,  famous  as  it  is,  with  the  crescents  of 
golden  sand,  miles  and  miles  of  it,  I  had 
so  recently  left  in  Australia." 

After  six  months  in  California,  Alastair 
started  eastward  to  New  York,  expecting  to 
stop  over  only  a  short  time  on  his  way 
home  to  London.  As  the  days  became 
weeks,  and  he  grew  more  and  more  loath 
to  leave  a  city  he  had  loved  at  first  sight, 
some  wonderful  things  began  to  happen. 
"The  people  I  met  here,"  he  says,  "were 
immediately  friendly,  interesting  and  in- 
terested, immediately  responsive.  It's  an 
American  trait.  When  I  first  started  in 
radio  here,  I  had  not  realized  that  my  own 
manner  was  somewhat  reserved,  as  the 
English  are  said  to  be.  I  had  never  thought 
of  myself  in  the  least  as  a  'withdrawn 
character.'  But  suddenly  I  understood  what 
Americans  mean  when  they  call  us  a  're- 
served' people.  Gradually  that  is  wearing 
off  for  me,  I  hope. 

"I  had  been  in  New  York  about  four 
months  when  I  was  lucky  enough  to  get 
the   role   of  Lord   Henry." 

In  addition  to  playing  this  part,  Ala- 
stair is  Stanley  Warrick  in  the  radio 
drama,  Stella  Dallas,  and  he  has  done  a 
number  of  television  roles,  notably  on 
You  Are  There  and  the  Robert  Mont- 
gomery and  U.  S.  Steel  dramatic  programs. 
While  all  this  was  happening,  Alastair 
found  the  apartment  he  needed,  even 
though  they  are  still  hard  to  come  by  in 
New  York.  Another  stroke  of  luck.  There 
are  four  rooms.  A  turquoise  living  room, 
a  bedroom  in  robin's-egg  blue,  a  light- 
green  guest  room,  and  an  efficient  white 
kitchen.  A  few  treasured  possessions  make 
the  place  seem  homelike,  but  most  of  the 
things  were  bought  recently,  since— being 
so  much  of  a  traveler— he  has  not  wished, 
until  now,  to  be  encumbered. 

Recently,  an  English  couple,  old  friends 
of  his,  came  over  for  a  visit.  His  mother 
will  arrive  a  little  later. 

"I  shall  build  a  great  log  fire  in  the  old 
brick  fireplace,  and  we  will  do  what  I  call 
'our  English  bit'  during  the  evenings,  sip- 


ping  mulled  claret  made  from  a  17th  cen- 
tury English  recipe,  roasting  potatoes  and 
chestnuts  in  the  fire.  Then  there  will  be 
the  opera,  and  the  theater.  I  shall  intro- 
duce my  mother  and  friends  to  the  won- 
derful places  I  have  discovered  in  Green- 
wich Village,  the  interesting  small  shops, 
the  little  restaurants,  and  the  winding 
delightful  streets.  I  shall  show  them  Radio 
City  and  Fifth  Avenue,  and  ride  them 
around    Central   Park   in   a  hansom   cab." 

Alastair's  mother  has  never  heard  her 
son's  voice  on  radio.  She  was  a  musician, 
a  pianist  and  singer,  until  an  accident  de- 
stroyed her  hearing.  "I  used  to  get  scripts 
of  my  shows  sometimes  from  the  BBC, 
so  she  could  read  them  while  I  was  broad- 
casting. My  father  constructed  a  headpiece 
that  attached  to  our  radio,  and  she  would 
get  the  vibrations  of  my  voice,  as  I  spoke, 
and  follow  it  with  the  script.  I  only  hope 
that  I  shall  be  able  to  rig  up  the  same  kind 
of  gadget  here. 

"But,  even  without  that,  I  know  there 
will  be  plenty  of  distractions  for  her  here 
— just  as  there  are  for  me.  For  instance, 
do  you  know  the  little  place  .  .  ."  At  this 
point,  Alastair  is  off  again,  on  a  eulogistic 
description  of  a  spot  in  New  York  which 
helps  form  a  part  of  the  pattern  of  his 
great  romance  with  the  city.  It  seems 
fairly  obvious  that  he  expects  to  be  around 
the  metropolis  for  a  long,  long  time. 

And  if  the  urge  to  travel  strikes  again — 
as  indeed  it  must?  Well,  perhaps  a  good 
vacation,  by  ship  if  possible.  "On  boats 
there  seems  to  be  no  beginning,  and  no 
end,  only  a  serene  sense  of  timeiessness," 
he  explains. 

This  is  all  his  seafaring  ancestors  talk- 
ing, through  their  descendant  who  turned 
actor.  As  for  Alastair  himself,  he  is  now 
in  love  with  a  lady  named  New  York — and 
with  the  work  he  chose  while  still  a 
schoolboy — and  there  is  doubt  that  he 
could  ever  leave  either  for  long. 


Thanks  for  the  Lift 

(Continued  from  page  70) 
I  was  knocking  myself  out  one  night,  get- 
ting a  few  laughs  here  and  there,  dying  on 
my  feet  but  giving  everything  I  had.  A 
party  of  people  came  in  and  I  didn't  recog- 
nize them,  with  the  lights  straight  in  my 
eyes. 

When  I  was  cleaning  up  that  night  after 
the  last  show,  a  note  was  delivered  to  me. 
It  said,  "Please  come  to  see  me  tomorrow 
afternoon  at  my  hotel."  It  was  signed  Al 
Jolson.  At  that  time,  he  was  the  greatest 
star  in  the  world,  making  the  most  money 
and  getting  the  biggest  billing. 

The  next  day,  sick  with  hope  and  fear,  I 
went  to  his  suite.  When  I  went  in,  he 
nodded,  and  suddenly  all  the  other  people 
faded  away  and  we  were  alone. 

He  said,  "Look,  Sonny,  I  asked  you  to 
come  over  here  because  I  think  you've  got 
it." 

I  had  nothing  to  say,  which  was  probably 
just  as  well. 

He  said,  "You've  got  a  big  talent,  Sonny. 
I  wanna  give  you  some  advice.  You  wanna 
take  it?" 

"Are  you  kidding,  sir?"  I  said. 

"It's  easy.  First:  Struggle.  Work  yourself 
to  death,  but,  keep  at  it." 

"Yessir." 

"If  you  call  me  'sir'  again,  I'll  clam  up." 

I  shut  up. 

"The  only  other  thing,"  Jolson  said, 
settling  comfortably  back  in  his  chair,  "is 
that  no  comedian  ever  improved  himself 
by  just  sitting  around  in  his  hotel  room. 
What  if  you  have  to  take  a  cut  of  a  few 
bucks?  You're  not  working,  you're  not 
teaching  yourself  anything,  and  you're  not 
making  any  gelt.  Don't  worry  about  your 
pride,  or  figure   you're   ruinin?   your   'po- 


STOP PAIN INSTANTLY 

COMBAT  INFECTION 
PROMOTE  HEALING 


WITH  ANTISEPTIQ 


Campho-Phenique 

USE  IT  FOR 

MINOR  BURNS.CUTS 

SGRATCHES,ABRASIONS 

Quick!  Apply  Campho-Phenique  at  once  to  minor 
'  burns  from  hot  cooking  utensils,  hot  water  or  steam 
.  .  .  stops  pain  instantly,  promotes  rapid  healing.  The 
same  thing  happens  when  you  use  it  on  minor  cuts, 
scratches  and  abrasions.  Campho-Phenique  is  highly 
antiseptic.  Wonderful  for  fever  blisters,  cold  sores, 
gum  boils;  to  relieve  itching  and  to  guard  against 
infecting  insect  bites.  Used  on  pimples,  Campho- 
Phenique  helps  prevent  their  spread  and  re-infection. 


Destroy/^^ 


-OREVER 


'■  Only  by  K1LUNG  THE  HAIR  ROOT  can  you  be  s 

f  UNWANTED  HAIR  ii  GONE  FOREVER.  Brings  n 

r  and  social  happiness.  Do  not  use  our  method  until  J 

J  you  hay«  read  our  instruction  book  carefully  and  j 

J  learned  to  use  the  MAHLER  METHOD  safely  ai 

J  efficiently.  Used  successfully  over  fifty  years,    f   mfw  "" 

BEAUTY  ' 

LFOR  YOU". 


Send  ScT0DAY  for  booklet  * 


MAHLER'S.  INC      Dept5?-C 


PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I. 


FALSE  TEETH 

KLUTCH  holds  them  tighter 

KLTJTCH  forms  a  comfort  cushion;  holds  dental  plates 
so  much  firmer  and  snugger  that  one  can  eat  and  talk 
with  greater  comfort  and  security;  in  many  cases  al- 
most as  well  as  with  natural  teeth.  Klutch  lessens  the 
constant  fear  of  a  dropping,  rocking,  chafing  plate.  35c 
and  60c  at  druggists.  If  your  druggist  hasn't  it, 
don't  waste  money  on  substitutes,  but  send  us  10c 
and  we  will  mail  you  a  generous  trial  box. 

KLUTCH  CO.,  Box  5586-C,  ELMIRA.  N.  Y. 


13    FRE 

mprince 
Napkin 


M       100    DIFFERENT    WAYS    TO    MAKE 

EXTRA  MONEY 

Sell  Lifelike  "Action"  Greeting  Cards 

Make  £50,  S75.  SlOO,  more!  Show 
new  type  Birthday.  Get  Well  ass'ts. 
home  &  gift  items.  Exclusive  Bar- 
k  gain  Surprise  Packages.  Profits  to 
f  lOOCV  plus  cash  bonus.  Write  today 
for  Free  Trial  outfit  of  Feature  All 
Occasion  ass'ts  on  approval,  FREE 
illustrated  Catalog.  Selling  Guide. 
FREE  Surprise  Gift.    Special  Offers. 

NEW    ENGLAND    ART    PUBLISHERS 
North  Abington   321,  Moss. 


mples 

:io.-.ery. 

encils 


EA/ffefcf0 

MAKE    S50-S60    A    WEEK 
You  can  learn  practical  nursing  at  home 
in  spare  time.  Course  endorsed  by  phy- 
sicians.  Thousands  of  graduates.   56th 
yr.  One  graduate  has  charge  of  10-bed 
hospital.    Another    saved    ?400    while 
learning.    Equipment    included.-  Men- 
women    18    to    60.    High    school    not 
Easy  tuition  payments.  Trial  plan.  Write  today. 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF    NURSING 
Dept.  463,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,   III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Same . 

City 


.Stale  . 


.  Age- 


When  you  feel  keyed-up  and  on  edge,  try  MILES 
NERVINE.    It  soothes  nervous  tension,  and  lets 
you  relax  and  rest. .  It  doesn't  PUT  you  to  sleep, 
it  LETS  you  sleep!  That's  why  you  feel  fresher, 
more  rested  next  day.    Follow  the 
label,  avoid  excessive  use.  MILES 
NERVINE,  effervescent  tab- 
lets and  liquid,  is  sold  at  all 
drugstores.  V"t— r- 


miles  •  N  E  R  VI N  E  ***- 


Is  a  friend  of  yours 


looking 
for 

help? 


-the  kind  of  help  she  can  get 
only  from  women  like  you 

Briefly,  she  wants  to  know  what  you 
think  about  internal  sanitary  protection. 
She  knows  you  use  it. 

Is  Tampax  really  as  comfortable  as 
they  say?  Is  it  true  it's  unfelt  as  well  as 
invisible,  once  it's  in  place? 

Does  Tampax  actually  prevent  odor 
from  forming?  Is  it  easy  to  insert?  Does 
changing  it  take  only  seconds?  And 
are  both  parts  of  Tampax — the  appli- 
cator and  the  Tampax  itself — easily  dis- 
posed of? 

Do  you  wear  Tampax  when  you  take  a 
tub  or  shower?  Does  it  help  make  you  (as 
many  woman  have  said)  feel  so  free  you 
almost  forget  about  "time-of-month"? 

Those  are  the  kinds  of  questions  the 
Tampax  user  gets  asked.  And  to  each  she 
replies  with  an  enthusiastic  "yes"  (just 
as  you  would).  A  big  reason  for  the 
popularity  of  Tampax  is  that  one  woman 
tells  another.  Your  friends  can  find  Tampax 
on  sale  at  drug  or  notion  counters  in 
choice  of  3  absorbencies:  Regular,  Super, 
Junior.  Month's  supply  goes  into  purse. 
Tampax  Incorporated,  Palmer,  Mass. 


Accepted  for  Advertising 
by  the  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Atsocialion 


tential.'  If  you've  really  got  it,  you'll  get 
there,  and  then  they'll  have  to  pay  you.  I 
thought  I  could  save  you  having  to  learn 
that  the  hard  way,  like  I  did." 

That's  all  Jolson  said  to  me  that  night. 
Eventually,  I  learned  what  he  meant.  I 
couldn't  imagine  why  the  biggest  of  all 
stars  should  bother  to  give  advice  to  a  kid 
comedian,  who  didn't  even  understand  him. 

Times  came  along  after  that,  when  I 
didn't  have  a  date  and  few  prospects. 

I  had  my  price  fixed,  maybe,  at  seventy- 
five  bucks  a  week.  I  was  offered  sixty.  I'd 
haggle  and  play  hard  to  get  until  the  last 
minute.  Then  I'd  remember  Jolson's  advice 
and  sign  the  contract.  I  kept  working,  and 
I  kept  learning.  I  worked  in  burlesque 
shows  that  were  a  big  comedown  for  me, 
but  I  worked  out  my  new  routines  there, 
polished  them  on  the  toughest  audiences  in 
the  world.  The  routines  were  ready  when  a 
good  spot  came  along. 

Just  this  last  year,  Las  Vegas  offered  me 
$7500  a  week,  but  I'd  have  to  share  my  bill- 
ing with  another  act.  I'd  been  billed  on 
top  for  a  long  time  everywhere  else,  and 
I  balked.  For  ten  days  I  argued  with  them. 
Then,  suddenly,  I  could  hear  Jolie  saying, 
"Don't  just  sit  around."  I  signed,  and  as  a 
result  I  have  a  contract  with  them,  six 
weeks  a  year  for  three  years,  whenever  I 
can  get  free. 

The  next  time  was  in  Boston.  I'd  been 
signed  to  play  on  the  same  bill  as  Ella 
Logan  and  Jack  Haley  at  the  Shangri  La, 
and  I  was  still  too  young,  too  unsure  of 
myself,  for  such  company.  The  opening 
night  audience  was  the  toughest  I've  ever 
seen,  noisy  and  raucous.  I  didn't  do  well 
at  all.  After  the  last  show,  the  owner  of 
the  place  called  me  over  and  told  me  he 
wanted  to  buy  me  out  of  my  engagement. 
I  was  losing  my  argument  with  him  when, 
out  of  the  corner  of  my  eye,  I  saw  George 
Jessel  hanging  around,  watching  us.  He 
tipped  me  a  wink  and  came  strolling  over. 
The  boss  knew  him  and  suddenly  was 
very  polite.  Jessel  put  his  arm  around  my 
shoulder  and  said,  talking  the  way  he  does 
out  of  the  corner  of  his  mouth,  "You've 
got  one  of  the  finest  acts  in  the  country 
here  in  this  boy.  Never  saw  a  smarter 
lad.  When  the  word  gets  around  about 
what  he  did  tonight,  he'll  pack  your  place. 
I  know  you've  got  him  for  a  week.  Tell 
you  what — keep  him  for  two  weeks  and,  if 
he  isn't  a  sensation,  I'll  pay  his  second 
week's  salary." 

He  said  a  lot  more,  and  so  did  the  boss, 
but  nobody  could  afford  to  get  in  Jessel's 
bad  graces  in  the  night-club  circuit,  so  I 
was  kept  on.  The  grapevine,  helped  by 
Jessel,  started  humming  and  I  stayed  thirty 
weeks  at  the  Shangri  La. 

Seven  years  after  Jolson  called  me  in  to 
see  him,  I  returned  to  Miami  Beach  in  the 
first  top-class  job  of  my  career.  I  was 
headlined  at- the  big,  luxurious  Copa — and 
guess  what  my  opposition  was  at  the 
Beachcomber  across  the  street?  The  Ritz 
Brothers,  always  big  favorites  in  Miami! 

My  act  was  dying  in  an  empty  house, 
while  at  the  Beachcomber  people  were 
lined  up  waiting  for  tables.  A  couple  of 
days  later,  I  was  introduced  to  the  Ritz 
Brothers  at  Mammy's,  and  they  asked  me 
to  lunch.  When  I  got  up  to  go,  I  said, 
"You're  swell  fellows,  but  I  wish  I'd  never 
heard  of  you."  When  they  wanted  to 
know  why,  I  told  them  the  truth. 

That  night — or,  rather,  the  following 
morning — I  was  just  signing  off  my  two- 
thirty  show  to  a  few  diehards,  when  the 
door  crashed  open  and  the  Ritz  Brothers 
(who'd  finished  fifteen  minutes  before) 
came  tumbling  into  the  place.  For  the  next 
hour  they  put  on  an  ad-lib  act  with  me 
that  fractured  everything  and  everybody 
in  sight.  It  was  the  biggest  ruckus  in 
Miami  Beach,  and  the  handful  of  customers 
went  out  to  spread  the  word. 


For  four  straight  nights  the  Ritz  Broth- 
ers, already  beat  from  doing  their  own 
zany  act,  came  over  and  killed  themselves 
on  my  late  show — until  everyone  knew 
about  it,  the  Copa  was  packed,  and  people 
had  had  a  chance  to  start  liking  me  for 
myself.  Then  they  said,  "You're  on  your 
own,  kid,"  and  relaxed.  Thank  God,  the 
people  kept  coming  and  my  career  was 
saved. 

Just  one  more,  and  then  I  think  you'll 
see  what  I  mean. 

This  is  about  Uncle  Miltie.  I  was  booked 
at  the  Martinique  in  New  York  this  time, 
following  Danny  Kaye  and  Danny  Thomas, 
the  roughest  climate  I've  ever  had  to 
weather.  Business  was  great  at  dinner 
and  supper,  but  my  2:30  show  was  going 
in  front  of  yawning  acres  of  empty  tables. 
Then,  one  night,  Berle  dropped  by  to  catch 
the  late  show.  He  was  starring  at  the  time 
in  "The  Ziegfeld  Follies,"  so  it  was  the  only 
chance  he  had  to  see  what  was  cooking. 

As  you  may  know,  Berle  never  drinks 
and  is  strictly  an  early-evening  man  when 
he  goes  out.  But  he  looked  around,  saw 
that  there  were  only  eight  or  ten  people 
in  the  place,  and  left.  The  next  night  he 
was  back.  He  started  heckling  me,  and  I 
returned  the  "compliments."  It  broke  up 
the  act  and  turned  it  into  a  free-for-all. 

The  next  night  he  was  back  again.  And 
the  next  night,  and  the  next. 

Imagine  this  guy,  after  a  full  night's 
work  of  his  own,  giving  up  his  rest  to 
work  out  in  a  smoky  night  club  so  he  could 
help  a  young  comedian  he'd  never  even 
met  before!  When  I  tried  to  thank  him 
— because  this  kick  brought  the  crowds  to 
the  late  show  and  kept  them  there — he 
brushed  it  off. 

"We're  all  in  the  business,"  he  said.  "Who 
can  help  a  comedian  except  another 
comedian?" 

This  was  "Mr.  Television"  speaking,  the 
guy  who  is  popularly  supposed  to  have 
stolen  more  gags,  cut  more  throats  and  beat 
more  rival  comedians  out  of  jobs  than 
anybody  in  show  business. 

When  this  new  TV  show  of  mine  was 
suggested  to  ABC  for  its  present  time,  the 
management  was  a  little  dubious  about 
placing  it  there.  After  all,  they  wanted 
to  create  their  strongest  lineup  for  Friday 
evening;  they  had  Ray  Bolger  and  Ozzie 
and  Harriet  as  starters,  and  a  quiz  show — 
"another"  quiz  show,  as  they  called  it — 
didn't  sound  very  interesting. 

It  was  Berle  who  went  to  the  President 
of  ABC,  Bob  Kentner,  and  spent  an  hour 
describing  the  show  and  its  possibilities, 
and  finally  sold  him  on  it.  Our  toughest 
problem  each  week  is  to  figure  out  a  new, 
interesting,  workable  "penalty  gimmick" — 
the  act  of  fate  which  fights  the  contestant 
and  creates  all  the  suspense.  Berle  sits 
up  nights  figuring  these  things  out  and 
phoning  them  to  us  when  he  gets  a  good 
one.  What  does  he  get  out  of  it? 

That's  right.  Nothing  but  a  good  feel- 
ing of  being  helpful.  Oh,  yes,  the  Ritz 
Brothers  are  sending  them  in,  too,  and 
we  get  some  from  George  Jessel.  I  have 
a  hunch  Jolie  would  be  in  the  act,  too,  if 
he  were  still  here. 

That's  how  it  works — and  that's  why, 
when  I  have  a  few  minutes  free  between 
shows  when  I  can't  be  at  home,  I  spend 
my  time  haunting  the  clubs  catching  new 
acts  with  new,  young,  inexperienced 
comedians.  Sometimes  there's  one  who's 
"got  it" — and  that's  when  I  go  backstage 
and  tell  him  what  Jolie  told  me,  about 
never  improving  by  just  sitting  around. 
And  sometimes,  when  I  see  the  act  is  dying, 
I  lean  back  in  my  chair  and  yell  a  nice 
crisp  insult  at  the  guy,  one  I  know  he  can 
answer  at  his  best.  It  always  starts  some- 
thing— 

Sometimes,  I  hope,  .it,  even  starts  a  new 
comedian  on  his  way. 


Being  a  Father  Is  Fun 

(Continued  from  page  55) 
Forget,  for  a  moment,  about  the  good- 
looking  guy  with  sculptured  features,  the 
dental-ad  smile,  and  melody-making  voice. 
Try  to  think  of  Tony  as  his  family  and 
neighbors  see  him — Mr.  Martin,  the  All- 
American  Father. 

After  their  game  of  catch,  Tony  and 
Nicky  sat  on  the  lawn  for  half  an  hour 
while  Tony  told  his  foster-son  about  ba- 
bies, in  terms  Nicky  could  understand:  A 
new  roommate,  another  player  on  the 
team,  and  someone  he  could  someday 
teach  how  to  pitch. 

Tony's  and  Nick's  "you  pitch,  I'll  catch" 
lessons  continued  as  usual  for  the  next 
four  months — with  sideline  comments 
about  babies  and  new  team  members  in- 
troduced whenever  feasible.  When  the  big 
day  arrived,  Nicky  was  well  prepared  to 
accept  the  new  player  into  the  household: 
Tony  and  his  wife,  Cyd  Charisse,  in  fact, 
had  sent  a  new  bat  and  ball  to  Nicky  as  a 
gift  from  Tony,  Jr.  They  didn't  want  any 
jealousy  to  arise  during  the  first  few 
weeks  when  the  new  baby  would  demand 
more  than  a  fifty-percent  share  of  their 
time.  The  card  on  the  gift  read:  "To 
Nicky:  It'll  be  nice  meeting  you.  With  love, 
from  your  new  brother,  Tony,  Jr." 

Though  Nick  was  well  prepared,  Tony, 
Sr.  admits  he  was  in  quite  a  stew:  "I'm 
not  a  cigar-chewer  and  I'm  not  a  floor- 
pacer,"  he  says.  "But,  believe  me,  when 
the  nurse  brought  in  the  baby,  it  was  the 
biggest  thrill  of  my  life! 

"Last  week,  I  was  reminded  what  a  thrill 
it  was,"  says  Tony.  "I  was  a  contestant  on 
Place  The  Face  and  the  nurse  who  had 
brought  our  baby  in  was  the  face  I  had  to 
place!  The  night  the  baby  was  born,  I 
must  have  been  in  shock — because  I  didn't 
recognize  her  at  all]" 

In  the  four  years-plus  since  Tony,  Jr.'s 
arrival,  Tony  and  Cyd  have  shown  no  fa- 
voritism to  either  boy.  They  try  to  devote 
an  equal  amount  of  time  to  each.  It's  tough 
on  Tony — because  the  two  boys  are  so  far 
apart  in  years  (Nick  is  now  12,  Tony,  Jr., 
4)— but  he  thinks  the  double  effort  is 
worth  the  trouble.  "We  spend  a  lot  of  time 
on  the  merry-go-round  with  Tony,  Jr.," 
he  says.  "And,  when  Tony  is  in  bed,  we  go 
to  ball  games  with  Nicky.  And,  since 
Nicky's  twelve,  this  gives  us  a  chance  to 
talk  about  the  facts  of  life." 

The  kids  are  crazy  about  their  dad.  They 
think  he's  the  greatest.  Says  Tony,  "But 
next  to  their  mother  and  me,  they  love 
Walt  Disney  the  most.  Mr.  Disney  and  his 
animals  have  captured  all  our  hearts." 

The  children's  love  for  Tony  is  well  il- 
lustrated every  Christmas  morn.  The  chil- 
dren know  Christmas  is  Tony's  birthday. 
Christmas  morning,  before  they  go  down- 
stairs to  the  tree  and  their  presents,  the 
children  tiptoe  into  Tony's  and  Cyd's  bed- 
room to  wake  him  up  with  kisses,  presents, 
and  happy-birthday  songs. 

The  children  feel  that  the  most  impor- 
tant thing  on  Christmas  morning  is  Tony's 
happiness.  They  make  a  big  thing  out  of 
trying  to  find  a  special  gift  for  him.  Tony 
is  sure  to  let  them  know  that  whatever 
they  get  is  "just  the  greatest!" 

With  the  time  and  attention  that  Tony 
and  Cyd  devote  to  the  boys,  no  jealousy 
has  arisen  between  them.  In  fact,  the 
youngsters  are  a  modern-day  version  of 
Damon  and  Pythias.  Nicky,  now  in  a  mili- 
tary school  uniform,  is  Tony,  Jr.'s  idol. 
"When  can  I  have  a  suit  like  Nicky's?"  he 
asks. 

(  And  Tony,  Jr.  takes  orders  from  his 
"military  idol."  Last  week  they  were  at  a 
restaurant  for  dinner.  Tony  was  about 
ready   to   have   at   his    grapefruit   cocktail 


Only  genuine  KURLASH  refills  this  new  automatic  way 


Rubber  bow  pops  out — 
Open  KURLASH  w-i-d-e    no  pins  or  screws 


Refill  slips  in— locks 
automatically  when  you 
close  KURLASH 


Here's  why  it's  easier  than  ever  to  be 
the  girl  with  the  wide-awake  look 


Now — a  new  Kurlash*  to  give  you 
sparkling  eyes,  the  wide-awake  look. 

It's  so  easy!  You  just  touch  your 
lashes  with  Kuelene  cream  . .  .  then, 
curl  them  with  new  Kurlash. 

Shaped  to  your  eye,  Kurlash  cush- 
ions lashes  gently  up  in  a  laughing 
curve  .  .  .  your  eyes  look  bright  .  .  . 


your  whole  face — wide-awake! 

And,  after  months,  when  Kurlash 
rubber  wears  down — exclusive  new 
automatic  refill  snaps  instantly  in 
place. 

Try  new  Kurlash  eyelash  curler 
tomorrow.  $1  at  drug,  department, 
variety  stores.  Kurlene,  50c  plus  tax. 


For  personal  advice — write  Jane  Heath,  Eye-beauty  Consultant,  Dept.  J. 


*Patenled 


Mufash 


KURLASH  available  In  Canada 


COMPANY,  INC.  •   Rochester  4,  N.  Y. 


HERE  IT  IS the 

jCitotoce 

MINIATURE    PIANO 


LIBERACE  says:  "I  love  this  piano  — it  looks  so  real!" 
You'll  love  it,  too,  it's  so  charming  and  so  practical. 
Available  in  amber,  ivory  and  mahogany. 
Approximate  Dimensions:  4"x5"x7",  l3/i"deep. 

Satisfaction  guaranteed  or  your  money  back.  Send 
check  or  money  order  — sorry,  no  C.O.D.'s.  Specify 
color  desired.  Please  print  name  and  address. 


FREE  of  extra  charge! 
A  5"  x  7"  picture  of  Liberace  suit- 
able for  framing  in  every  package! 


$9.00 

POSTPAID 


Every  piano  with  the 
Llb&Um  signature 


I 


PLANTER 
JEWELRY  BOX 
THREAD  BOX 
CANDY  DISH 


HOLLYWOOD  PRODUCTS  CO.-BOX  1343-DEPT.  A-3,  CLEVELAND,  OHIO 


83 


GENUINE  LUCKY  GEMS 


Genuine  Cultured  Pearls! 

A  real  conversation 
piece!  The  lovely  lustre  }" 
of  this  genuine  cultured  » 
pearl  is  breathtakingly 
b-autiful  set  into  its 
pink-lustre  sea  shell. 
Displayed  in  a  one-inch 
diameter  showcase, 
framed  in  engraved  24- 
K.  gold  plate. 

MASSIVE  BRACELET 

$1.98 
NECKLACE  TO  MATCH 

1.98 
EARRINGS  TO  MATCH 

1  98 
ENSEMBLE  OF  ALL 
3   PIECES 5.00 


Genuine  LUCKY  STARFISH 


Surrounded  by  exquisite 
real  seashells  and  set  into 
our  own  lovely  reproduc- 
tion of  an  antique  watch- 
case.  See-thru  unbreakable 
crystal  front  and  back! 
You'll  marvel  at  the  origi- 
nality of  this  genuine  star- 
fish-watchcase  and  chain 
finished  in  durable  24-K. 
gold.  Unbelievably  low- 
priced. 

MASSIVE   BRACELET. $1.98 
NECKLACE  TO  MATCH  1.98 
EARRINGS  TO  MATCH  1.98 
ENSEMBLE  OF  ALL 
3  PIECES   5.00 


Sm  FLOATING  OPALS 


Great  big  nuggets  of  fiery 
genuine  opals  floating  in  a 
miniature,  clear  crystal, 
unbreakable  soothsayer's 
GLOBE.  Yes!  The  gem  an- 
cients claimed  had  magi- 
cal properties— the  power 
to  make  your  hopes  come 
true!  GENUINE  OPALS  at 
an  unbelievable  low  price. 

MASSIVE   BRACELET. $1.98 

NECKLACE  TO  MATCH  1.98 

EARRINGS  TO  MATCH  1.98 

ENSEMBLE  OF  ALL 

3  PIECES   5.00 


bracelet  A  COLLECTOR'S  ITEM 


7  Genuine  Foreign  Coins 

Seven  24-K.  gold  plated  foreign  coins,  mounted  on  a 
massive  24-K.  gold  plated  link  bracelet.  A  King's 
ransom  that  you'll  see  in  the  most  exclusive  shops 
at  fancy  prices.  Order  now  at  our  special  low  price. 

MASSIVE    BRACELET    $1.98 

NECKLACE  TO  MATCH   1.98 

EARRINGS   TO    MATCH    1.98 

ENSEMBLE  OF  ALL  3  PIECES 5.00 


RUSH  ORDER  TODAY 


Mercury  Jewelry  Co.  Dept. 

112  Main  St.,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send    me    the    Items,    checked    below. 

$ (No  c.o. D.) 

GENUINE  CULTURED  PEARLS 

i  I  Bracelet  {  I  Necklace        D  Karrlngi 

GENUINE   LUCKY  STARFISH 

□  Bracelet  Q  Necklace         D  Earrings 

GENUINE   FLOATING    OPALS 

•let  D  Necklace        D  Earring) 

GENUINE   FOREIGN   COINS 
G  Bracelet  Q  Necklace        D  Karrlngs 


WG-355 

I    enclose 

□  Set 

D  Bet 

D  Sot 

D  Sot 

I  Name. 

I 

■  Street. 


Plea«e  Print 


City  Stato 

Price*    include    Federal    Tax— PoatAga    Prepaid 


when  Nicky  said,  "Wait  a  second  .  .  . 
you're  not  supposed  to  eat  until  everybody 
is  served!" 

Recently,  the  two  Tonys  were  at  a 
Rams-Redskins  professional  football  game. 
Between  halves,  California  Military  Acad- 
emy's team  played  against  another  local 
team.  When  the  public  address  system  an- 
nounced a  player  change,  "Nick  Charisse 
in  for  Bob  Brown  .  .  ."  Tony,  Jr.  shouted, 
"That's  my  brother'." 

Because  of  the  close  relationship  be- 
tween the  boys,  discipline  is  not  too  much 
of  a  problem  in  the  Martin  household. 
Tony  says,  "Since  Nicky  thinks  of  himself 
as  an  example  to  Tony,  Jr.,  he  keeps  a 
steady  head.  And,  when  Tony  acts  up, 
Nicky  is  there  to  sit  on  him  with,  'Tony, 
be  quiet' — and  Tony  is." 

Tony's  producer,  Bud  Yorkin,  says,  "The 
boys  are  more  like  three  brothers  than 
father  and  sons.  We  go  out  to  the  house  to 
rehearse,  and  find  Tony  in  the  front  yard 
flying  balsa-wood  gliders  with  Tony,  Jr. — 
or  bent  over  a  football  in  the  back  yard 
'centering'  to  Nicky  .  .  . 

"Recently,  we  were  rehearsing  in  the 
living  room  while  Tony,  Sr.  and  Nicky  re- 
played the  USC-UCLA  game.  The  divan 
was  the  goal  line  and  Nicky  was  catching 
flat  passes  thrown  by  Tony. 

"It  may  seem  somewhat  out  of  place  to 
replay  a  ball  game  in  the  elegance  of  the 
Martin  living  room — with  a  grandstand  of 
Rouault  paintings  looking  on — but  it's  the 
accepted  thing  with  Tony,  Sr.  When  the 
ball  bounces  off  the  wall  too  much,  Cyd 
comes  in  to  calm  down  Saturday's  heroes. 

"The  truth  is,  Cyd  is  as  much  for  the 
companionship  as  Tony — she's  more  wor- 
ried about  flying  glass  getting  into  some- 
body's eyes,  than  she  is  about  the  football 
hitting  one  of  their  rare  paintings." 

Cyd  and  Tony  never  let  their  careers  in- 
terfere with  their  time  with  the  children. 
In  fact,  they  are  genuine  homebodies.  They 
enjoy  entertaining  in  an  informal  manner, 
and  the  house  is  always  filled  with  friends. 
As  their  friends  come  through  the  doors, 
Tony's  major  greeting  is:  "Hi,  glad  you 
could  come  .  .  .  we're  all  in  the  den  and 
you  know  where  the  ice  box  is.  .  .  ." 

Sunday  mornings  will  find  Tony  and  the 
boys  in  the  kitchen,  surrounded  by  the 
funny  papers  and  the  sports  section.  While 
whipping  up  the  bacon  and  eggs,  Tony  will 
read  the  funnies  to  Tony,  Jr.,  then  Nick 
reads  the  sports  to  Tony,  Sr.  Tony  doesn't 
mind  telling  you  he's  a  fair  hand  with  the 
breakfast  bacon  and  eggs.  "And  I  cook  a 
pretty  good  steak,  too,"  he  says.  When 
asked  if  Cyd  is  at  home  in  the  kitchen,  he 
grins,  "Yes — as  long  as  I'm  doing  the  cook- 
ing." 

What  makes  Tony  Martin,  Sr.  the  All- 
American  Father  that  he  is?  What  is  there 
in  his  background  that  makes  him  so  eager 
to  share  the  time  and  interests  of  his  sons? 

There  are  two  major  reasons.  One  is  that 
Tony  Martin  is  a  frustrated  athlete.  The 
second  reason  is  that  Tony  never  had  a 
full  boyhood.  He's  just  now  finding  the 
time  to  swing  a  bat,  throw  a  ball,  and 
watch  a  game — for,  when  Tony  was  twelve, 
he  had  already  taken  on  a  man's  responsi- 
bilities, had  begun  helping  support  his 
family. 

Tony  will  be  the  first  to  admit  he's  a 
frustrated  athlete:  "When  I  was  a  kid  in 
Oakland,  California,  I  wanted  to  be  a  base- 
ball player,"  he  says.  "I  wanted  to  be  a 
baseball  player  so  bad  I  could  taste  it. 
Cookie  Lavagetto  was  in  the  same  class  in 
school  with  me.  When  I  was  a  kid,  I  al- 
ways had  a  baseball  mitt  in  my  hands. 
Every  chance  I  had,  I  high-tailed  over  to 
the  ball  park  to  watch  practice.  I  used  to 
chase  their  fly  balls.  If  I  was  lucky,  the 
manager  let  me  keep  one  for  my  trouble. 
Then  during  the  season  I  sold  peanuts,  and 


later  I  ushered  at  home  games  of  our  team, 
the  Oakland  Acorns.  Baseball — that  was 
my  life." 

But,  before  Tony  had  lived  through  his 
boyhood,  he'd  been  forced  into  the  role  of 
breadwinner.  While  still  in  Oakland  Tech 
High  School,  he  formed  a  small  band — the 
Clarion  Four.  He  played  benefits  and 
dances  in  and  around  Oakland  until  he 
was  sixteen,  when  he  was  signed  into  San 
Francisco's  Palace  Hotel.  He  did  a  little 
singing  at  the  same  time,  not  because  he 
wanted  to  be  a  vocalist,  but  because  the 
Clarion  Four  needed  a  voice,  and  Tony's 
was  the  best. 

Tony's  parents  had  always  dreamed  of 
Tony's  going  to  college.  "My  father  was  a 
humble  man  who  worked  with  his  hands," 
he  says,  "and  my  mother  was  a  housewife 
and  a  wonderful  woman.  They  wanted  me 
to  have  a  college  education.  I  got  lucky 
with  the  saxophone  and,  after  high  school, 
I  enrolled  at  Saint  Mary's  College.  .  ." 

out  Tony  was  still  not  convinced  that 
music  was  his  career.  It  wasn't  until  his 
sophomore  year  that  the  final  choice  was 
made,  and  then,  only  by  accident.  One  of 
the  priests  heard  him  playing  jazz  on  the 
chapel  organ,  convinced  Tony  he  had  great 
musical  talent  and  urged  him  to  follow  it 
up  career-wise. 

Walter  Winchell  heard  him  sing  while 
Tony  was  still  a  sophomore  at  St.  Mary's, 
and  asked  him  to  do  a  solo  on  his  program. 
From  that,  Tony  went  to  the  World's  Fair 
in  Chicago,  and  then  to  the  Chicago  night 
club,  Chez  Paree,  where  he  proceeded  to 
crack  all  records.  His  hit  at  the  Chez  was 
Tony's  big  step  up.  From  that  he  went  to 
the  Trocadero  in  Hollywood,  where  Darryl 
F.  Zanuck  saw  him  and  signed  him  for 
20th  Century-Fox.  During  the  time  Tony 
made  films  at  20th — "Sing  Baby  Sing," 
"Pigskin  Parade"  and  others — he  also  sang 
on  the  Burns  and  Allen  radio  show,  and 
finally  had  a  show  of  his  own,  Tune-Up 
Time.  Tony  Martin  had  arrived. 

Television  was  the  next  natural  step  for 
Tony.  The  reason  he  took  his  time  mak- 
ing it  is  that  Tony  is  a  perfectionist. 
Since  he  was  to  do  a  live  show,  he  wanted 
to  make  sure  of  having  a  quality  produc- 
tion, he  wanted  to  make  sure  that  Ameri- 
can audiences  got  the  entertainment  value 
they  deserved. 

"I  had  always  been  reluctant  to  go  on 
television,"  says  Tony.  "But  the  agency 
kept  asking  me.  Finally,  I  told  them,  'Okay, 
providing  I  get  the  best  producer.'  They 
arranged  for  Bud  Yorkin  to  produce  the 
show  and  here  we  are.  .  .  ." 

Just  as  he  loves  sports,  Tony  loves  the 
challenge  of  live  TV.  Bud  Yorkin  says, 
"Tony  doesn't  sing  the  'easy'  end  of  a  song 
— he  doesn't  go  down  an  octave  for  the  last 
note,  nor  does  he  sing  sharps  or  flats  for 
effect.  If  the  note  goes  up,  he  goes  up  after 
it.  It's  a  challenge  to  him.  And  he  never 
pre-records.  He  says,  'It's  a  live  show — if  I 
fluff,  the  audience  is  entitled  to  my  mis- 
takes. 

At  present,  Tony's  goal  is  to  continue  his 
fifteen-minute-a-week  show  and  then, 
once  a  month,  do  an  hour  musical  with 
people  like  Dinah  Shore,  Gordon  MacRae, 
and  Danny  Thomas.  He  says,  "People  in 
pictures  do  what  they  call  'little  theater,' 
summer  stock,  and  such,  where  they  have 
fun  playing  at  their  work.  Well,  I'd  like  to 
do  the  same  thing  on  TV,  but  cut  the  pub- 
lic in  on  it,  too.  .  .  ." 

No  matter  where  his  career  takes  him, 
Tony  always  will  be  sure  there's  time  for 
the  family.  When  asked  if  the  boys  inher- 
ited any  of  their  parents'  talents,  Tony 
says,  "Sure,  they  sing  like  their  mother 
and  dance  like  their  father." 

Nobody  has  to  ask  the  children  about 
Tony  Martin.  It's  obvious— he's  an  AD- 
American  Father. 


Bob  Rockwell 

(Continued  from  page  46) 
"I  was  living  in  an  apartment  with  a  cou- 
ple of  other  fellows,"  says  Bob,  "and  we 
double-dated.  At  the  time,  Betts  lived  in  a 
girls'  dormitory — but  we  were  so  disin- 
terested in  each  other,  I  didn't  even  know 
which  one! 

"In  our  second  semester,  we  moved  into 
the  same  boarding-house.  As  neighbors, 
we  couldn't  help  getting  to  know  one  an- 
other." 

However,  Betts  herself  reports  that  they 
almost  didn't  get  together:  "On  a  double- 
date,  I  saw  a  picture  of  another  girl  in  his 
wallet,"  she  says.  "I  asked  him  who  it  was. 
'The  apple  of  my  eye,'  he  reported. 

"Well,  all  the  girls  were  crazy  about 
Bob,  anyway,  so  I  gave  him  up,  and  start- 
ed going  with  his  best  friend.  Then,  during 
the  six  months  in  the  boarding-house,  I 
learned  that  the  girl  in  the  wallet  was  his 
sister.  After  that,  he  didn't  have  a  chance!" 

Bob  says:  "Our  romance  was  a  growing 
thing.  No  lightning  or  earthquakes.  During 
those  six  months,  I  didn't  stop  to  analyze 
what  was  happening.  I  didn't  say,  for  ex- 
ample, 'This  is  the  gal  for  me'  ...  or  'This 
gal  has  talent'  ...  or  'She  has  all  the  rare 
qualities.  .  .  .'  No  sir,  nothing  like  that. 
But  suddenly,  one  day,  it  popped  into  my 
head:  'Boy,  you're  crazy  if  you  let  this  gal 
get  off  the  hook!' 

"That  night  we  took  a  walk  up  the  tree- 
lined  hill  in  back  of  the  campus.  We  both 
loved  the  outdoors  and  walking,  and  we 
had  been  up  there  a  few  times  before.  I 
don't  remember  exactly  what  I  said.  But  I 
remember  the  picture  in  my  mind:  The 
stars  were  shining  down,  and  the  lights  of 
Passdena  were  bouncing  off  the  hills  in 
back  of  us  ...  I  stuttered  and  stammered 
a  bit,  in  time  with  the  blinking  neon  signs 
...  I  said,  'I-would-very-much-like-to- 
be  -  married  -  to  -  you,  and  -  what  -  do  -  you  - 
thi^k-of-that!" 

"Her  answer  was  yes. 

"I  wasn't  prepared  for  marriage— but  are 
bachelors  ever  prepared  for  marriage?  At 
any  rate,  Betts  seemed  very  happy  with 
the  situation.  We  intended  to  elope,  but 
decided  it  wouldn't  be  fair  to  our  families. 

"Betts  is  an  only  child.  Her  parents  were 
in  Denver,  and  she  had  always  wanted  a 
big  wedding  .  .  .  my  mother — who  was 
widowed  when  I  was  five — and  my  two 
sisters  would  all  have  been  distraught  if 
we  hadn't  had  them  at  the  ceremony  .  .  . 
so  we  decided  against  the  elopement. 

"We  decided  to  wait  for  the  first  oppor- 
tunity. Since  I  had  to  go  into  the  Navy 
then,  the  'first  opportunity'  had  to  wait  six 
months!  We  are  glad  we  waited,  for  we 
were  able  to  arrange  the  ceremony  just  as 
Betts  had  dreamed  it." 

Bob  had  been  in  the  Navy  as  a  yeoman 
— stationed  in  Washington,  D.C. — for  six 
months,  before  he  got  up  enough  nerve  to 
ask  his  commanding  officer  for  five  days 
off  to  be  married.   (Continued  on  page  86) 


One  Nation  Under  God 

"Today  you  are  betting  your  life  on 
this  country  you  live  in.  If  we  want  to 
win  the  prize  of  national  strength  and 
security  we've  got  to  work  together. 
Let's  respect  each  other's  race  and  color 
and  creed.  Let's  make  Brotherhood 
Week  last  all  year." 

— Groueho  Marx 

BROTHERHOOD  WEEK 

February  20-27 


Are  you  THE  WOMAN  THAT  NOBODY  SEES? 


Look 

YOUNGER, 

LOVELIER 


Have  a  new  personality.  ..new  attention. ..  new  thrills... 

xestue  color 

in  your  HAIR  will  put  COLOR  in  your  LIFE! 

NESTLE  COLORINSE  brings  OUT  all  the  hidden  beauty  of  your  hair 
instantly  . . .  intensifies  its  natural  color !  Wonderful,  easy- 
to-use  Nestle  Colorinse  adds  glamorous  color-highlights 
. . .  gives  your  hair  a  glorious  sheen  . . .  makes  it  softer, 
silkier,  easier  to  comb.  Rinses  in  . . .  shampoos  out!  12  lovely 
colors.  6  rinses  25^,  14  rinses  50^. 

NESTLE  COE.ORTINT  COLORS  DEEPLY— it's  more  than  a  rinse  but  not  a  per- 
manent dye!  So  easy-to-use  . . .  Nestle  Colortint  gives  you  the 
glamorous  new  shade  you  yearn  for  . . .  hides  gray  hairs,  blends- 
in  all  streaked,  bleached  or  previously  dyed  hair.  No  ammonia, 
no  peroxide  but  esters  of  Lanolin  to  condition  your  hair  as  it 
colors.  10  beautiful  shades.  6  capsules  29^,  14  capsules  50#. 

Ask  for  professional  applications  at  your  beauty  shop 


handling    (2   photos  for   25<).   Rush  to: 

HOLLYWOOD   FILM  STAR  CENTER 

Box  2309,  Depl.   l_-3,      Hollywood  28,  California 


1    '   !''     ' 

WOMSH 
0HI< 


If  you  need  more  money... 

Up  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous   Hollywood  Cos- 
metics, your  neighborhood. 
Free    Samples    and    details 
«i  otTjifMrj*-    supplied.  Write  to: 
Guaranteed  by*^\     HARRY  TAYLOR,  Pres. 
Good  Housekeeping  )    .,  ,?&&«>  Gir|- 
"*„  »ss*/     Hollywood  Cosmetic 

'  ^Glendale,  Calif.,  DepLTS-35 


IF  YOU  LIKE  TO  DRAW 
SKETCH  OR  PAINT... 

You  may  have  talent  that  could  earn  you  $75  to  $500 

weekly!  Trained  artists  are  needed.  See  if  your  talent 

is  worth  training.  Take  the  famous  Art  Talent  Test,  at 

home,  alone,  in  spare  time.    Developed  by  world's 

greatest  home  study  art  school, 

it's  helped  thousands  toward  art 

careers.  No  fee  or  obligation.This 

coupon  brings  it.  Write  today! 


ART  INSTRUCTION.  INC.,  studio  2395 

500  S.  4th  St.,  Minneapolis  15,  Minn. 
Please  send  me  your  Free  Talent  Test.    (PLEASE  PRINT) 


OCCUPATION. 


85 


SURVEY  SHOWS  ANSWERS  FROM 


86 


iNUKoLO  suggest 

DOUCHING 
ZONITE  /„,- 

feminine  hygiene 

Brides-to-Be  and  Married  Women 
Should  Know  These  Intimate  Facts 

Every  well-informed  woman  who 
values  her  health,  physical  charm 
and  married  happiness,  knows  how 
necessary  a  cleansing,  deodorizing 
douche  is  for  intimate  feminine  clean- 
liness and  after  monthly  periods. 
Douching  has  become  such  an  es- 
sential practice  in  the  modern  way  of 
life,  another  survey  showed  that  of 
the  married  women  asked — 83.3% 
douche  after  monthly  periods  and 
86.5%  at  other  times. 

It's  a  great  assurance  for  women  to 
know  that  ZONITE  is  so  highly  thought 
of  among  these  nurses.  Scientific  tests 
proved  no  other  type  liquid  anti- 
septic-germicide for  the  douche  of  all 
those  tested  is  so  powerfully  ef- 
fective yet  so  safe  to  body  tissues. 

ZONITE's  Many  Advantages 
zonite  is  a  powerful  antiseptic- 
germicide  yet  is  positively  non-poi- 
sonous, non-irritating.  You  can  use 
it  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A  ZONITE 
douche  immediately  washes  away 
jjerms  and  waste  deposits. 
It  effectively  deodorizes  and 
leaves  you  with  a  wonderful 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence— so  refreshed  and 
dainty.  Inexpensive — zonite 
costs  only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 


ZONITE— the  Ideal  'ALL-PURPOSE' 
Antiseptic-Germicide 


"I  don't  think  we  can  do  it,"  the  com- 
mander said.  "We're  going  to  ship  you  out 
to  Hawaii  within  the  next  few  days.  .  .  ." 

Bob's  heart  sank  as  he  realized  that  the 
trip  to  Hawaii  would  take  him  out  of  the 
States  for  a  good  many  years.  It  looked  as 
though  their  waiting  hadn't  been  such  a 
good  idea,  after  all. 

Then  the  commander  came  to  him  with 
the  news  that  they  had  saved  him  for  a 
second  draft  of  men:  He  could  have  his 
five  days'  leave! 

"I  told  Betts  to  get  the  wheels  moving," 
says  Bob,  "and  I  flew  to  Denver.  After  we 
were  married,  we  went  back  to  Washing- 
ton, where  I  remained  for  the  rest  of  the 
war.  I  never  was  sent  to  Hawaii. 

"We  started  our  married  life  completely 
alone,"  says  Bob.  "We  were  thousands  of 
miles  from  our  nearest  relative — complete- 
ly on  our  own — which  we  think  is  good. 
Not  that  we  had  any  problems  in  our  mar- 
riage. But,  left  to  our  own  devices,  we  got 
to  know  each  other  so  much  better. 

"Our  feeling  is  that  the  best  advice  can 
be  the  worst  advice.  Young-marrieds 
should  have  a  chance  to  work  out  their 
first  problems  alone.  There  will  always  be 
someone  in  the  family  who  will  say,  'We 
had  the  same  problem  that  you  have.  Now 
whst  you  ought  to  do  is.  .  .  .' 

"The  best  advice  we  think  we  can  give 
is:  Don't  give  advice!  Sure,  there  will  be 
problems.  But  let  the  young-marrieds  talk 
it  out  themselves.  After  all,  their  problems 
rightfully  belong  to  them.  They're  the  ones 
who  will  have  to  find  the  solutions." 

Susie — "Bachelor"  Bob's  and  Betts'  first 
child — was  born  in  Bethesda,  Maryland, 
while  Bob  was  still  in  the  Navy.  "I  had  left 
Betts  at  the  hospital  about  eleven  P.M.," 
Bob  says,  "and  gone  to  work. 

"I  had  the  midnight  to  eight  A.M.  watch 
on  shipboard,  which  always  threw  me:  I 
could  never  accustom  myself  to  those 
hours;  you  never  knew  whether  to  eat 
lunch  or  breakfast  or  dinner — or  whether 
to  go  to  sleep.  Consequently,  I  was  in  a 
continuous  state  of  shock. 

"But  I  wasn't  too  far  gone  to  leave  a 
message  at  the  hospital  that  I  wanted  to  be 
called  when  Betts  went  into  the  delivery 
room.  The  doctors  guaranteed  nothing 
would  happen  until  morning,  so  I  went  off 
to  work  the  night  through.  I  called  the 
next  morning,  'How  does  it  look?'  I  asked. 
They  said,  'Nothing,  until  late  afternoon. 
We'll  give  you  a  call.'  So  I  went  to  bed. 

"I  slept  like  somebody's  dead  uncle.  At 
four  o'clock,  our  neighbor  came  across  the 
hall,  rapped  on  the  door  and  called  out: 
'Get  right  over  to  the  hospital,  you've  got 
a  baby  girl!'  'For  crying  out  loud,'  I  said, 
'why  didn't  they  call  me!'  It  turned  out 
that  they  had,  but  I  had  been  too  sound 
asleep  to  hear  the  hall  phone  ring.  .  .  ." 

1  elevision  and  movies  frequently  make 
comic  characters  out  of  new  fathers. 
Though  Bob  had  been  a  bachelor  for 
twenty-odd  years  before  this  first  child 
was  born,  he  insists  that  he  kept  his  wits 
about  him  through  the  entire  experience. 
"But  I  can;t  deny,"  he  says,  "that  it  was 
the  most  completely  unique  experience  in 
my  life.  I  had  all  the  normal  reactions:  I 
was  most  concerned  with  the  welfare  of 
my  wife  ...  I  was,  naturally,  terribly 
disappointed  that  I  wasn't  available  when 
the  baby  was  born.  .  .  .  But  Betts  and  1 
were  both  happy  with  the  result,  and  we 
had  great  fun  reading  the  books,  analyzing 
all  the  sounds  and  the  first  wigglings. 

"I  hope  we  are  what  could  be  called  'in- 
terested' parents.  I  know  we  want  to  know 
what  makes  things  tick.  Betts,  as  a  result, 
is  a  great  believer  in  natural  childbirth. 

"This  interest  stems,  I  think,  from  the 
fact  that  she  hates  not  knowing  what  is 
going  on!  Bob,  Jr.,  Jeff,  and  our  baby, 
Gregory,  were  all  born  by  that  method. 


"For  example,  Bob,  Jr.,  our  second  child, 
illustrates  how  relaxed  Betts  is  about  the 
whole  thing:  We  almost  didn't  get  to  the 
hospital — but  that  didn't  upset  her.  We 
had  been  up  most  of  the  night,  then  every- 
thing seemed  to  have  quieted  down,  so  I 
went  off  to  work.  This  was  after  the  Navy, 
and  I  was  in  between  acting  jobs,  working 
as  a  hod  carrier  in  Denver. 

"I  had  primed  the  boys  at  work:  I  told 
them  when  the  phone  call  came,  I  would 
be  offl  I  was  going  to  drop  whatever  I  was 
doing,  and  start  running.  Well,  when  the 
call  came  at  four  o'clock,  you  never  saw 
anybody  run  so  fast  in  your  life.  I  had  to 
get  down  two  or  three  blocks  to  where 
Betts'  mother,  driving  the  car,  could  pick 
me  up  on  the  way  to  the  hospital. 

"And  we  just  made  it:  Thirty  minutes 
after  we  arrived,  Bobby  was  in  the  nurs- 
eryl  Betts?  They  wheeled  her  back  into 
her  room,  we  sat  and  chatted,  then  she 
picked  up  the  phone  to  inform  all  her 
friends  that  the  Rockwell  family  was  now 
four  .  .  .  just  like  nothing  had  happened! 

"The  last  two  boys,  Jeff  and  Greg,  were 
born  in  St.  John's  Hospital  in  Santa  Mon- 
ica. They  were  delivered  by  Dr.  Herman 
Zampetti,  a  firm  believer  in  natural  child- 
birth, following  that  method  only  at  his 
patients'  request.  Fortunately,  I  am  al- 
lowed to  remain  with  Betts  in  the  labor 
room.  As  a  result,  I  feel  as  if  I'm  helping 
along  a  bit. 

"When  Betts'  children  are  delivered,  she 
gives  them  a  minute  inspection — she  wants 
to  make  sure  there  are  five  fingers  and 
toes.  Believe  me,  nobody  puts  a  diaper  on 
one  of  her  children  until  they've  been 
looked  over!  But  as  a  result,  her  mind  is  at 
ease  right  away." 

Dob's  own  life  began  thirty-odd  years 
ago  in  Lake  Bluff,  Illinois.  "My  mother 
was  a  schoolteacher,"  he  says,  "and  my 
father  a  patent  attorney.  We  lived  in  a 
small  town,  and  I'm  glad — it  gives  you  a 
down-to-earth  philosophy. 

"As  children  we  had  great  freedom — 
didn't  have  to  worry  about  riding  our  bi- 
cycles through  traffic.  We  tramped  in  the 
woods,  swam  in  the  lake  in  the  summer.  I 
remember  we  had  an  old  iron  stove  in  the 
woods  we  cooked  fish  on  and  baked  pota- 
toes in.  You've  never  tasted  food  like  that 
— even  the  dirt  was  good. 

"I  still  love  the  outdoors.  When  the  boys 
get  old  enough,  I  want  them  to  spend  their 
summers  on  a  ranch  in  Colorado — that's 
what  I  did.  It'll  be  good  for  them.  And,  by 
working  for  part  of  their  schooling,  they'll 
learn  the  value  of  a  dollar." 

Bob  wanted  to  be  in  the  theater  since 
high  school:  "I  had  been  in  all  the  plays 
and,  later,  wanted  to  go  to  the  Goodman 
School  of  Acting  in  Chicago,  but  Mother 
wanted  me  to  spend  at  least  two  years  at 
the  University  of  Illinois.  There  I  studied 
business  administration.  But  the  theater 
was  still  my  first  love. 

"From  the  University  I  came  out  to  the 
Pasadena  Playhouse.  There  I  was  living, 
eating,  breathing  theater — that's  what  I 
wanted.  I  have  always  thought  of  the 
theater  as  a  business;  I  feel  that  you  can 
work  gradually  and  slowly  up  in  this  area, 
as  in  any  enterprise — and  you  can  stay  in 
it  for  many  years." 

Bob's  career  has  taken  him  from  the 
stage  ("Cyrano,"  with  Jose  Ferrer  in  New 
York)  to  movies  to  radio's  and  television's 
bashful  bachelor,  Mr.  Boynton,  in  Ov-r 
Miss  Brooks.  Today,  it  seems  as  though  his 
wish  to  stay  in  the  theater  for  years  will 
be  fulfilled,  since  it  isn't  likely  that  Bache- 
lor Boynton  will  be  maneuvered  into  mar- 
riage in  the  very  near  future. 

But  that's  quite  all  right  with  "Bachelor" 
Bob  Rockwell — who's  perfectly  happy  with 
his  wife  Betts  and  their  four  lively  chil- 
dren! 


Herb  Shriner 

(Continued  from  page  51) 
so  fast  .   .  ."  His  voice  trailed  off. 

"I  know,"  Pixie  said.  "You  don't  have  to 
spell  it  out.  It  means  the  country,  and  a 
house." 

"A  house  on  the  water,"  Herb  said,  "be- 
cause of  the  boat.  A  house  once-and-for- 
all  big  enough  so  we  won't  ever  have  to 
worry  about  moving  again.  It's  the  works 
this  time,  honey." 

Her  eyes  began  to  sparkle,  the  fatigue  of 
the  day  and  long  evening  forgotten.  "I  may 
have  dreaded  a  responsibility  like  that  be- 
fore," she  said,  "but  d'you  know,  all  of  a 
sudden  it  sounds  exciting,  like  the  biggest 
challenge  in  the  world.  Okay,  let's  do  it! 
Start  hunting  tomorrow!" 

"You  mean  it?" 

"Since  when  have  I  said  anything  to  you 
I  didn't  mean?" 

"Let's  leave  the  dishes,"  Herb  said  hap- 
pily. "Everything  can  wait  until  tomor- 
row." 

It  had  to  be  done  fast.  Herb  had  commit- 
ments, a  trip  to  California,  shows  in  Las 
Vegas,  a  hundred  other  jobs  all  overlap- 
ping. But  he  had  a  week  free.  He  called  a 
friend  who  was  also  a  business  associate — 
Howard  Weissman — and,  next  morning, 
the  two  of  them  started  out,  Herb  driving, 
Howard  trying  to  turn  the  "house  for  sale" 
pages  of  the  newspapers  against  the  wind 
and  also  find  the  addresses  of  real  estate 
agents  in  little  books. 

They  did  this  day  after  day,  driving  past 
addresses  they'd  read  about,  noting  things 
that  were  impossibly  wrong  about  house 
and/or  grounds,  and  riding  on. 

Then,  one  late  afternoon  toward  sunset, 
they  came  upon  a  hill  in  Sands  Point,  on 
Long  Island  where,  stately  in  its  own  pri- 
vate park,  a  magnificent  house  stood — 
empty,  and  for  sale.  Howard  heard  with 
trepidation  the  sigh  of  longing  from  behind 
the  wheel  as  Herb  drove  up  the  long, 
winding  drive  and  finally  stopped  his  big 
car,  like  a  jeep  before  the  Taj  Mahal. 

The  front  doors  seemed  as  tall  as  the 
gates  of  ancient  Babylon  as  they  entered 
the  high,  whispering  main  hall.  "You  could 
test  a  helicopter  in  here,"  Howard  mut- 
tered to  himself.  Oddly  enough,  Herb  was 
thinking  the  same  thing.  Only  seriously. 
Or,  at  least,  you  could  try  miniature  planes 
with  real  motors,  or  .  .  . 

Howard  said,  "I  see  it  coming  over  you. 
Don't  man,  don't!  Think!" 

"I  am  thinking,"  Herb  said. 

"It's  a   white   elephant,"   Howard   cried. 

"Wonderful  name.  On  a  small  sign  out 
front.  .  .  .  Address:  Shriner,  White  Ele- 
phant, Sands  Point." 

Howard  used  his  final  weapon.  "She'd 
never  stand  still  for  it,"  said  Howard,  sol- 
emnly. 

He  meant  Pixie,  of  course,  and  at  this 
point  we  must  pause  to  explain  that  Pixie 
is  the  businesswoman  in  the  family,  that 
she  handles  all  the  accounts,  and  that 
there  is  a  limit  beyond  which  she  will  not 
allow  Herb  to  go,  where  money  is  con- 
cerned. This  is  the  way  he  wants  it;  he  or- 

••••••••••••••^•••••••••••* 


INVEST   IN 

U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 

NOW  EVEN  BETTER 

•••••••••••an**************** 


IF  YOU  GET  THIS  STUNNING 
10*  DRESS  WITHOUT  PAYING  l< 


••.will  you  WEAR  and  SHOW  it  in  your  community? 


Wear  and  show  these 
dresses  to  your  friends! 


Get    cash    rewards    for 
Your  friends'  selections! 


Give    information    on 
colors,  sizes,  fabrics. 

Would  you  like  to  wear  and  show  our  pretty  frocks  to  friends  and  neigh- 
bors? Through  our  exciting  Introductory  Plan  you  can  earn  your  own 
\    dresses  WITHOUT  PAYING  lc.  Not  only  do  you  get  dresses  for 
|     yourself  and  your  children  but  you  make  up  to  $100  in  a  month 
(or  even  more)  for  any  selections  your  friends  make  from  our  pres- 
entation of  over  150  glorious  styles. 

Everyone  who  sees  our  dresses  falls  in  love  with  their  ex- 
quisite styling,  lovely  fabrics,  and  rich  all-'round  quality  at 
such  moderate  prices.  So  we  want  women  all  over  America  to 
see  our  dresses— not  on  models,  but  on  average  women  of  all 
ages,  shapes  and  sizes. 


PASTE   COUPON  ON  POSTCARD  -  MAIL  TODAY! 


No  Obligation-No  Experience! 
It  costs  nothing  to  investi- 
gate this  unusual  offer,  and 

you  will  not  be  obligated  I 

in  any  way.  Just  put  your  J 

name,  address,  age  and  I 

dress   size  on   the   handy  I 

coupon.  You  will  receive  , 

everything  you  need  to  •  Name 

get   started.    First   come,  |  Address 

first  served. 

FASHION  FROCKS,  INC.      City&Zon*  s-" 

„„,    .   .»•»  I  Aee Dress  Size 

uept.  4-3U3J  -    In  Canada,  mail  coupon  to  2163  Parthenais,  Montreal,  P.O. 

Cincinnati  25,  Ohio  '. . 


FASHION  FROCKS,  INC.,  Dept.  S-3053,  Cincinnati  25,  Ohio 

Yes,  I'd  liVe  to  be  one  of  the  women  who  get  the  chance 
to  wear  and  show  your  lovely  dresses  in  my  community. 
Please  send  me  everything:  I  need  to  get  started  without 
obligation. 


KIDNEYS 
MUST  REMOVE 
EXCESS  WASTE 

Nagging  backache,  loss  of  pep  and  energy,  head- 
aches and  dizziness  may  be  due  to  slowdown  of  kidney 
function.  Doctors  say  good  kidney  function  is  very 
important  to  good  health.  When  some  everyday  con- 
dition, such  as  stress  and  strain,  causes  this  im- 
portant function  to  slow  down,  many  folks  suffer 
nagging  backache— feel  miserable.  Minor  bladder 
irritations  due  to  cold  or  wrong  diet  may  cause 
getting  up  nights  or  frequent  passages. 

Don't  neglect  your  kidneys  if  these  conditions 
bother  you.  Try  Doan's  Pills— a  mild  diuretic.  Used 
successfully  by  millions  for  over  50  years.  It's  amaz- 
ing how  many  times  Doan's  give  happy  relief  from 
these  discomforts— help  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes 
and  filters  flush  out  waste.  Get  Doan's  Pills  todayl 


BIGGEST  MONEY  MAKER  EVER! 
$25»°$50       INJUST 

**  *"A  FEW  HOURS! 


NEW  STYLE  CRAZE  BRINGS 
YOU   QUICK  CASH! 

On-the-spot  sales  give  up  to  $10  profit 
.  first   time   you   show   FLEXICL0GS! 
\   Over  a   million  sold.  Selling  like 
wild-fire!  Exciting  hinged  wood- 
i   footwear   flexes   on  foot,, 
sells  entire  family.  Cushion- 
crepe  soles,  interchange- 
able straps,  in  11  fashion 
colors,  foam  rubber  insoles, 
flat  or  high  heels.  Close  orders  instantly. 
Matched  accessories  multiply  profits. 


FREE!  $5.50  Sample  Kit  For  You! 


FtEXICLOGS,  Box  735.    New  Holstein,  Wis. 

Hurry !     Rush   my   sample   kit  so   I   can   start   making    I 

money  now ! 

Name i 

i 


Address. 


[City ,  .State ■ 


EAT  ANYTHING 
WITH  FALSE  TEETH 

If  you  have  trouble  with  plates  that 
slip,  rock  and  cause  sore  gums — try 
Brimms  Plasti-Liner.  One  applica- 
tion makes  plates  fit  snugly  without 
powder  or  paste,  because  Brimms  ' 
Plasti-Liner  hardens  permanently  to 
your  plate.  It  relines  and  refits  loose 
plates  in  a  way  no  powder  or  paste  can  do.  Even  on 
old  rubber  plates  you  get  good  results  six  months 
to  a  year  or  longer,  you  can  eat  anything!  Sim- 
ply lay  soft  strip  of  Plasti-Liner  on  troublesome 
upper  or  lower.  Bite  and  it  molds  perfectly.  Easy 
to  use,  tasteless,  odorless,  harmless  to  you  and  your 
plates.  Removable  as  directed.  Money  back  if  not 
completely  satisfied.  Ask  your  druggist ! 


BRIMMS   PLASTI-LINER 

THE  PERMANENT  DENTURE  RELINER 


—because  you  lack  a 
HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA 

•  You  can  qualify  for  an  American  School 
Diploma  in  spare  time  at  home!  If  you  have 
left  school,  write  or  mail  coupon  for  FREE 
booklet  that  tells  how.  No  obligation  of  any 
kind. 

OUR  58TH  YEAR 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  V353 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois 

Please  send  FREE  High  School  booklet. 


Name 

Address 

City  &  State 

Canadian  Residents:  Complete  Canadian  Course  Available. 
Write  American  School,  1610  Sherbrooke  St.  Weat.  Montreal. 


87 


YOUR 
COOK  BOOK 

The  Most  Unusual 

Cook  Book  Published! 


Here — at  last — is  your  dream  cook  book  .  .  . 
the  cook  book  that  has  everything  .  .  .  the 
cook  book  that  tops  them  all!! 

In  the  Magic  Cook  Book  you'll  discover  Mrs. 
Bailey's  Soda  Biscuits  that  are  the  fluffiest 
and  flakiest  biscuits  you  ever  tasted  and  they 
just  melt  in  your  mouth.  And  for  the  dream- 
iest main  dish,  you  have  just  got  to  try  Mrs. 
LazarofFs  Veal  Parmigiana — your  men  folk 
will  just  rave  over  it.  Then,  there  is  Mrs. 
Hooker's  Macaroni  Loaf  with  Cheese  Sauce 
— this  succulent  dish  just  oozes  with  zest — 
the  only  trouble  with  it  is  that  you  will 
never  make  enough  to  satisfy  your  family  or 
your  guests!!  For  a  dessert  that  will  make 
them  stand  up  and  cheer — try  Mrs.  Lock- 
hart's  special  recipe  for  Pecan  Pie.  It's  the 
most  heavenly  dish  to  top  off  a  meal — and 
you  will  be  rated  the  Queen  of  Hearts  for 
serving  it — time  after  time  after  time. 


5£ 


88 


With  this  book  at 
hand  meal  planning 
is  an  exciting  adven- 
ture— not  a  chore. 
Your  neighbors  and 
friends  will  want 
copies  of  all  the  yum- 
my dishes  you  serve. 
Your  cooking  will  be 
the  talk  of  the  town!! 
These  recipes  are  the 
prize  recipes  from 
magazine  readers 
from   coast  -  to  -  coast. 

The  price  of  the 
Magic  Cook  Book  is 
only    $1.98,    postpaid. 

f— -  MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY----', 

Readers'  Service  Bureau 

TRUE  STORY.  Dept.  WG-355 

205  E.  42nd  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  the  MAGIC  . 
COOK  BOOK.  I  enclose  $1.98. 

■ 

Name J 

Please   Print 

I 

Address I 

I 

City State j 

Thrilling  New  Massage  Cream 
Contains  PC-11.  Acts  Instantly  to 

DRY  UP  SKIN 
BLEMISHES 

From  Both  Oily  Skin  and 
External  Causes! 

Have  you  tried  in  vain  to  get  rid 
of  oily  pimples,  "hickies,"  other 
externally  caused  skin  blemishes  ? 
■I  W  c?  \  weH.  you  never  had  PC-11  be- 
l  m^^  \  fore!  That's  POMPEIAN'S  name 
**^*  1  H^«^  ^  for  Hexachlorophcne.  Wonder- 
ful discovery  of  science  helps  dry  up  such  skin 
blemishes!  Acts  instantly  to  clean  out  dirt,  helps 
remove  blackheads  like  magic!  Goes  on  face  pink — 
rolls  off  muddy  gray! 

GENEROUS  TRIAL  TUBE— 10  CENTS! 
Send   name,  address    and    10  cents  to   POMPEIAN 
CORP.,  Dept.  P-3,    Baltimore  24,  Md.  (Offer  good 
only  in  U.S.)  Or  get  Pompcian  Mas- 
sage Cream  at  any  drug  store. 


dained  it;  he  knows  he  is  incurably  ex- 
travagant— and  he  also  realizes  that  she 
will  give  him  greater  leeway  than  any 
cold-blooded  business  agent  ever  would. 

But  there  must  be  a  time  when  even 
Pixie  must  be  adamant,  not  to  be  coaxed 
with  wheedling  or  kisses.  Herb  is  always 
grateful,  a  week  later.  But  it  must  be  ad- 
mitted that  this  particular  wifely  duty  is 
the  one  Pixie  detests  most. 

"I  suppose  you're  right,"  Herb  said  to 
Howard.  "She'd  let  out  one  scream  of 
anguish,  and  that  would  be  it.  No  use 
wasting  any  more  time  here." 

Finally,  however,  Herb  and  Howard 
were  driving  about  one  afternoon  in  West- 
chester County,  came  to  Larchmont,  and 
passed  a  place — on  the  gate  of  which  was 
affixed  a  small  "See  Realtor"  sign.  The 
realtor's  agent  was  already  waiting  for 
them. 

"Look,"  Herb  said,  as  they  drove  up  to 
the  front  porch.    "A  flag-polel" 

"So  a  flagpole,"  Howard  said,  anxiously. 
"Anywhere  you  buy,  you  can  put  in  a  flag- 
pole, very  cheap — " 

I  he  realtor's  agent  ushered  them  into 
the  front  hall,  and  once  again  there  was 
the  airy,  whispering  mood  of  a  grand  old 
house,  again  peopled  with  gracious  people 
and  echoing  with  the  patter  of  little  feet — 
or  was  it  "little  people"  dancing  in  the 
empty  stretches  of  hall?  Wasn't  there  a 
reed  sound  here,  a  bass  tone  there? 

"An  organ!"  Herb  beamed.  And  indeed 
there  was.  A  complete  pipe  organ,  console 
and  all,  ready  to  go  at  the  touch  of  a 
switch. 

"He's  lost,"  Howard  muttered  to  himself. 
"He  always  wanted  a  flagpole — and  now 
this!"  He  remembered  times  past  when  he 
and  Herb  had  gone  to  Radio  City  Music 
Hall  for  some  reason  or  other,  and  had 
been  invited  backstage  to  watch  the  great 
organ  at  work.  That  is  one  of  the  biggest 
in  the  world — and,  as  if  to  outdo  everyone, 
the  practice  organ  upstairs  is  also  one  of 
the  finest  of  its  kind  in  the  world. 

There,  Howard,  who  had  always  thought 
of  Herb  as  a  harmonica  virtuoso  and  no 
mean  slouch  on  the  accordion,  saw  Herb 
sit  down  and  bat  out  a  Bach  fugue  with 
both  hands  and  both  feet,  afterwards  re- 
ceiving a  quiet  word  of  praise  from  the  lo- 
cal master  of  the  organ  downstairs. 

"You  never  told  me  about  that,  Herb," 
Howard  said  plaintively.  "I  never  knew 
you  dig  this  real  classic  stuff." 

"You  didn't  ask,"  said  Herb. 

Now,  they  were  talking  about  the  house 
as  they  drove  away  from  it,  out  along  the 
parkway  toward  New  York.  "It  won't 
work,"  Howard  said.  "You  can't  buy  a 
house  just  because  it's  got  a  flagpole." 

"But  it's  got  an  organ,"  Herb  said. 

"You  didn't  even  check  how  many  rooms 
it's  got!" 

"It's  on  the  water.  .  .  .  And  look  at  it — 
there  are  rooms  enough  for  a  hundred 
people." 

"You  need  a  hundred  people?" 

"Who  knows?  We've  got  the  twins." 

Later  that  night,  he  talked  to  Pixie.  "It 
could  be  for  the  future,"  he  said.  "There's 
room  there  for  everything.  All  my  collec- 
tions, mooring  for  the  boat,  endless  expan- 
sion." 

"But  how  would  we  furnish  it?" 

His  eyes  twinkled,  the  way  they  do 
when  he  is  especially  amused  on  a  TV 
program.  "I've  got  a  few  things  in  storage 
in  California.  Some  of  my  folks'  furniture, 
an  antique  or  two.  .  .  .  And  some  collec- 
tions." 

"Collections!"   she  cried.     "Oh,   no\" 

The  Shriners  beat  the  delivery  of  Herb's 
"few  things  from  storage"  into  the  new 
house  by  just  two  days.  They  had  barely 
settled  themselves,  Indy,  the  twins  and  a 
nurse  into  part  of  one  wing — and  Herb  had 


hardly  touched  the  organ — when  the  fur- 
niture and  "collections"  began  to  arrive 
from  California. 

He  came  home  one  day  from  the  studio 
to  find  her  frantic.  Pixie  was,  for  the  first 
time  in  their  married  life,  near  tears. 

"Everything's  wrong,"  she  wailed.  "The 
house  is  full  of  furniture,  it's  full  of  crates 
of  stuff—" 

"Stuff?"  said  Mr.  Shriner.  "What  do  you 
mean,  'stuff'?" 

"Crates  of  harmonicas,"  Pixie  almost 
yelled.  "Crates  of  thingsl  Spears!  Things  I 
can't  understand  at  all — hideous,  horrible 
things!" 

"Why,  honey,"  he  said  soothingly,  "that's 
just  some  primitive  stuff  I  picked  up  in' 
Australia.  Now  don't  you  worry  about  it." 

"Oh?"  Pixie  said.  Suddenly  she  collapsed 
with  laughter.  "All  right,  Herb.  You  find  a 
place  for  it." 

"Glad  to,"  he  said,  very  dry,  very  Indi- 
ana .  .  .  "only  we're  leaving  tomorrow  for 
Las  Vegas." 

"Well,  what  do  you  know?"  said  Pixie. 
"Saved  by  the  bell." 

Actually,  it  was  no  more  than  a  post- 
ponement, but  it  gave  them  each  a  respite 
in  which  to  make  a  few  plans.  It  was  obvi- 
ous that  you  cannot  just  pile  a  collection 
of  parts  for  1910  cars  in  a  corner  on  the 
floor  and  get  any  real  good  out  of  it. 

Pixie,  who,  as  part  of  their  deep  love  and 
trust,  does  not  hesitate  to  be  tough  with 
Herb  when  he  forgets  appointments,  and 
who  bawls  him  out  for  a  sloppy  show  just 
as  she  praises  him  for  a  good  one,  had 
made  up  her  mind  that  Herb  was  going 
to  have  to  control  those  collections  at  last. 
It  was  just  too  much.  Why,  the  man 
couldn't  even  get  past  a  war-surplus  store 
without  trying  to  have  half  the  inventory 
shipped  home. 

Thank  goodness,  his  current  interests 
were  skin-diving  and  helicopters,  with  the 
boat  as  an  absorbing  side  interest.  The 
boat  was  anchored  near  the  house,  a  skin- 
diver  can  wear  just  so  much  equipment — 
and,  with  her  hand  on  the  budget,  she 
knew  exactly  how  much  would  come  from 
any  talk  about  helicopters. 

Herb  was  docile  about  his  collections. 
Why  not?  At  last  he  had  a  place  where  he 
could  take  them  out  of  storage  and  spread 
them  around  in  all  their  fascinating  eye- 
appeal.  "Why,  honey,"  he  told  Pixie,  "with 
this  house  to  put  them  in,  there's  no  limit 
to  what  I  can  pick  up  from  now  on  .  .  ." 

"Well,  that's  that,"  Pixie  said  philosophi- 
cally. "Just  no  spears  in  our  bedroom, 
please?" 

"Okay,  okay,"  he  said.  "We  can  keep  the 
harmonicas  there,  and  maybe  Kin  and  Will 
would  like  to  have  the  spears  in  the 
nursery.  Incidentally,  Tex  McCrary  is  ar- 
ranging to  pick  me  up  here  tomorrow  in 
a  helicopter  and  drop  me  at  a  benefit 
across  the  bay  .  .  .  and  we're  leaving  for 
California  Friday.   .    .   ." 

And  there  we  leave  them,  in  their  big 
"new"  house  amid  a  welter  of  partially 
placed  furniture  and  rooms  full  of  collec- 
tions .  .  .  with  little  Indy  industriously 
tampering  with  the  wiring  system  .  .  .  and 
little  Kin  and  Will,  still  unaware  of  what 
lies  ahead,  blissfully  twiddling  their  toes. 

What  lies  ahead  is  Herb's  plan,  which 
he  told  me  about  recently.  "I'm  looking  at 
everything  I  do  now,  in  the  light  of  their 
future,"  he  explained.  "Indy  will  get  mar- 
ried, but  the  boys  might  carry  on  for  me. 
The  new  harmonica  that's  coming  out  un- 
der my  name  .  .  .  the  boat,  the  collections 
.  .  .  I've  got  a  million  plans.  Of  course," 
he  added  ruefully,  "they  may  not  like  a 
single  thing  that  I  do  .  .  .  may  turn  out  to 
be  lion-tamers  .  .  .  but,  anyway,  it  will 
all  be  here  for  them."  Then  with  a  specu- 
lative gleam:  "And  I  could  probably  col- 
lect a  few  lions,  at  that." 


Patricia  Barry's  First  Love 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
struggling   mightily   to   be    quiet   and    get 
over  a  case  of  sniffles. 

Even  on  her  birthday,  and  with  all  the 
usual  demands  upon  a  mother-house- 
keeper-wife, Pat  had  to  allot  time  for  the 
interview,  because  being  an  actress,  like 
being  a  wife  and  mother,  knows  no  real 
"days  off."  Which  is  what  the  interview 
turned  out  to  be  about — about  family  life, 
and  work,  and  some  play,  too,  and  how 
busy  people  must  organize  their  time  to 
fit  everything  in. 

"You  can  see  I  have  had  to  put  myself 
on  a  strict  schedule,"  Pat  began.  "We  all 
do,  we  mothers,  if  we  want  to  get  anything 
done.  And  I  have  my  career,  besides.  So 
I  have  learned  to  use  every  odd  moment 
for  the  things  Phil  and  I  want  to  accom- 
plish." She  laughed.  "And  it  isn't  nearly 
so  grim  as  it  sounds.  In  fact,  it's  quite 
wonderful." 

liight  now,  along  with  everything  else 
that  interests  them,  they  are  re-doing  their 
apartment  on  New  York's  upper  East  Side 
— re-papering  some  of  the  rooms  (hanging 
the  paper  themselves) ;  painting  and  re- 
finishing  some  of  the  furniture  and  wood- 
work; laying  wall-to-wall  carpeting. 

Robin  must  have  been  impressed  with 
Pat's  and  Phil's  talk  of  things  to  be  done 
and  the  constant  bustling  about,  because 
she  announced  one  day  that  she  would 
like  to  add  dancing  classes  to  her  morning 
sessions  at  nursery  school.  "Everybody 
around  this  house  is  so  busy,"  she  said 
earnestly,  "and  I  want  to  be  busy,  too." 

"We  quite  understood  her  point  of  view," 
Pat  commented,  "and  promptly  enrolled 
her.  She  now  adores  telling  us  all  about 
the  exciting  things  she  does  all  day.  It 
has  helped  her  to  understand  why  we,  too, 
must  go  out  and  do  things  away  from  the 
house,  knowing  that  we  will  get  together 
at  home  again  and  have  wonderful  dis- 
cussions of  the  things  that  have  happened. 
Robin  seems  to  understand  about  my  pro- 
gram and  watches  it  every  day.  One  after- 
noon, when  she  had  to  make  up  a  dancing 
class  she  had  missed,  she  was  quite  apolo- 
getic about  not  being  in  front  of  the  tele- 
vision set  as  usual. 

"Actually,  I  never  thought  I  would  be 
keeping  an  engagement  pad  with  something 
crowded  into  almost  every  hour.  But,  no 
matter  how  busy  the  day,  Phil  and  I  break- 
fast with  Robin  before  she  goes  off  to 
school.  My  show  is  in  the  afternoon,  so 
I  have  some  morning  hours  at  home  to 
take  care  of  household  matters  and  to  do 
my  telephoning.  I  go  over  my  script 
from  11  to  12.  Sometimes  I  bound  around 
town  looking  for  bargains  in  materials  I 
can  use  to  make  drapes  and  slipcovers  and 
curtains  and  things  for  the  apartment. 
Twice  a  week  I  work  with  an  actors'  group 
to  keep  up  in  my  work,  and  I,  too,  take 
dancing  lessons,  and  singing.  But  I  am 
home  for  dinner  with  Robin,  and  usually 
Phil  is,  too,  and  we  read  to  her  and  always 
hear  her  prayers  before  she  goes  to  sleep. 

"If  it  weren't  for  my  excellent  maid, 
Alleen,  I  would  have  much  less  freedom. 
She  not  only  helps  me  to  organize  and 
run  the  house,  but  I  can  leave  Robin  with 
her  and  never  worry.  I  don't  suppose  any 
mother  could  be  away  from  home  with 
a  free  mind  if  she  hadn't  just  the  right 
person  with  whom  to  leave  a  child,  and  I 
am  fortunate." 

Fortunate  also  is  Pat  in  her  marriage. 
She  identifies  herself  closely  with  this  girl, 
Laurie  James,  whom  she  plays  in  First 
Love,  which  is  written  by  Manya  Starr. 
But,  unlike  Laurie  and  Zach  James,  Pat 
and  Phil  have  an  understanding  and  happy 
relationship.  Like  Laurie,  Pat  is  a  domestic 


woman  who,  if  there  had  to  be  a  choice, 
would  always  put  home  and  family  first, 
but  Laurie's  love  story  has  run  turbulently 
of  late. 

Pat's  own  love  story  began  in  a  way 
that  would  make  a  lovely  sentimental  se- 
quence in  any  TV  dramatic  serial — or  in 
any  life,  for  that  matter!  Her  home  is 
Davenport,  Iowa,  but  she  had  been  in 
Hollywood  a  couple  of  years,  making  pic- 
tures for  Warners  and  Columbia,  when  she 
was  sent  East  to  do  a  movie  with  a  New 
York  background.  After  the  picture  was 
finished,  one  of  her  friends  said  to  her: 
"Now  Pat,  it's  time  you  got  married  (She 
was  all  of  about  nineteen  then!),  and  I'm 
going  to  introduce  you  to  the  man  for  you." 

Meanwhile,  the  friend  had  said  about  the 
same  thing  to  Phil,  who  was  then  stage- 
managing  for  the  Theater  Guild  and  not 
particularly  interested  in  being  married 
to  anyone  but  his  job.  The  busy  friend 
made  several  dates  for  them  to  meet.  Once 
Phil  couldn't  make  it.  Several  times  Pat 
couldn't.  Then  one  day  they  did  meet,  at 
a  cocktail  party. 

"I  was  still  doing  publicity  for  the  pic- 
ture I  had  just  finished,"  Pat  said.  "I  was 
on  my  way  to  another  party,  where  I  had 
to  make  an  appearance  for  the  sake  of  the 
movie,  and  I  was  dressed  in  an  outfit  the 
studio  had  asked  me  to  wear — Hollywood's 
idea  of  what  I  should  look  like.  A  pale 
yellow  suit  just  dripping  with  fur,  when  I 
longed  to  wear  something  simple. 

"When  I  was  introduced  to  the  nice- 
looking,  crew-cut  young  man  who  looked 
as  if  he  had  stepped  out  of  a  Brooks  Broth- 
ers advertisement,  I  thought  he  was  pretty 
stuffy.  He  thought  (and  told  me  so  later), 
'Oh,  the  Hollywood  starlet  type.  Pretty, 
with  that  auburn-red  hair  and  the  big 
brown  eyes,  but  probably  no  talent.' 

"He  didn't  get  in  touch  with  me.  I  didn't 
expect  him  to,  nor  did  I  care.  Then,  three 
days  later,  I  went  to  another  party,  feeling 
quite  miserable.  A  wisdom  tooth  had  been 
pulled  that  morning,  and  how  that  gaping 
hole  did  ache!  I  had  been  rushing  around 
all  day,  and  now  I  was  tired  and  didn't  care 
how  I  looked.  I  sat  'way  back  in  a  corner 
and  am  sure  my  make-up  was  a  mess,  and 
my  mood  to  match. 

Phil  came  over  to  me.  This  time  I  was 
just  myself,  my  least  attractive  self,  I  sup- 
pose, but  without  any  pose,  and  I  was 
dressed  in  something  of  my  own  choosing. 
Phil  was  sweet  and  kind  and  seemed  to 
understand  that  I  didn't  feel  like  putting 
myself  out  even  to  be  very  friendly.  We 
made  a  date  for  a  few  evenings  later. 

"On  the  dance  floor,  that  night,  he  asked 
when  he  might  see  me  again  and  I  found 
myself  answering,  to  my  surprise,  'Oh, 
soon.'  On  the  way  home,  he  was  just  as 
surprised  to  hear  himself  asking  me  to 
marry  him!  That  was  the  beginning,  al- 
though at  the  time  I  thought  it  ridiculous 
for  him  to  ask  a  girl  he  hardly  knew. 

"I  had  to  go  back  to  California,  where  I 
sold  the  house  in  which  I  had  lived  with 
my  aunt  (who  chaperoned  me  during  the 
Hollywood  part  of  my  career,  because  I 
was  only  seventeen  when  I  went  into  pic- 
tures). Then  I  came  back  to  New  York, 
and  a  little  more  than  a  year  after  our  first 
meeting,  Phil  and  I  were  married,  on  June 
11,  1950." 

Phil,  who  adapts  many  of  his  late  father's 
plays  for  television  ("The  Philadelphia 
Story,"  "The  Joyous  Season,"  "The  Animal 
Kingdom,"  to  name  just  a  few)  is  also  a 
story  editor,  writer  and  assistant  producer 
for  ABC -TV.  For  a  couple  of  seasons  after 
marrying  Pat,  however,  he  ran  the  Palm 
Beach  Theater  in  Florida  during  the  winter 
and  the  one  in  East  Hampton,  Long  Island, 


For 


NOW  READY!   GORGEOUS,  SMART, 
MODERN   STYLE  DRESSES  FOR   ALL 
OCCASIONS! 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as- 
sortment of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety  of 
luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons,  cot- 
tons, gabardines,  woolens,  silks, 
etc.  Expensive  dresses — original 
value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cards!  5  to  8  matched  but- 
tons  on  each  card.  Worth  a  few ' 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.  782 

lOne  of  the  oldest  and  largest  mail  order  houses  of  its  Icindl 
•     103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y. 

Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below 
with  Free  Button  Cards.  Enclosed  find  $1  de- 
posit, balance  C.O.D.  plus  postage.  Money  re- 
turned if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and 
foreign  orders  accepted. 
Circle  Size: 

Girl's  Sizes  7,  8.  10.  12,  14  are  5  for  $2.75 
Junior  Miss  Sizes  9,  11,  13,  15  are  5  for  $3.75 
•Sizes  12,  14,  16.  18,20,38,40,42.44,5  for  S3.7S 
I  Sizes  14 !4.  16?/,,  18 y3,  20'/,.  22  Vi.  24  y,,  5  for  $3.75 
I      Extra  Large  Sizes  46.  48,  50.  52  are  5  for  $4.75 
I      □  Check    here   to   save   C.O.D.    fee.   Send   full 

amount  with  2  5<*  postage. 
,  □  Please   send  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY 

I 

I 

|      Address 

|      City Zone 


Name 


State 


89 


This  is  PHOTOPLAY'S 

coveted  GOLD  MEDAL  AWARD— 
presented  each  year  to  Hollywood's 
most  popular  actor  and  actress. 

Who  will  win  it  this  year? 
The  winners  are  announced  in 
MARCH 

PHOTOPLAY 

AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


PHOTOMAY 


90 


Also  in  PHOTOPLAY- 
MARLON   BRANDO'S 

pursuit  of  happiness 

AUDREY  HEPBURN'S 

life  and  marriage 

VAN  JOHNSON'S 

new  outlook  on  life 

DEBBIE  REYNOLDS' 

engagement  story   told  by  her 
best  friend 

LISTEN  TO  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

GOLD  MEDAL  AWARDS  PRESENTATIONS 

Thursday,  February  10 — 9:30  p.m.  EST 

AMERICAN  BROADCASTING  COMPANY 

(for  further  information  consult  your  local 

newspapers) 


during  the  summer,  acting  as  producer. 
Pat  worked  under  his  direction.  (She  has 
worked  with  stars  such  as  Ruth  Chatterton, 
who  was  very  helpful  to  this  talented  young 
actress.  In  fact,  they  worked  together  at 
an  Ann  Arbor,  Michigan,  Festival,  where 
Pat  received  the  award  as  the  most  prom- 
ising young  performer  to  appear  at  the 
Festival.  Last  summer,  Pat  went  back  to 
appear  in  "The  Crucible,"  with  the  original 
New  York  cast  of  the  play.) 

But  it  was  before  that,  when  they  were 
first  married  and  she  was  doing  summer 
theater  around  Boston,  that  Pat  discovered 
she  was  going  to  have  a  baby.  "I  was  play- 
ing in  'Our  Town'  and  I  can't  imagine  a 
better  play  to  be  in  at  such  a  time,"  she 
says.  "It's  all  about  life  and  about  death, 
but  mostly  about  life  and  its  wonderful 
moments,  and  about  children  and  their 
parents  and  the  happy  relationships  that 
exist  in  families." 

Robin  was  born  in  1951.  It  was  only 
about  a  year  after  that  Philip  Barry,  Sr. 
passed  away,  and  they  both  felt  they 
wanted  something  tangible  to  link  their 
daughter  with  her  grandfather.  The  senior 
Barrys  had  lost  a  daughter  in  infancy  and 
many  of  his  plays  had  revolved  around  a 
lovely  young  girl.  So  Robin  was  named 
Miranda  Robin,  the  "Miranda"  being  for 
the  heroine  of  one  of  Philip,  Sr.'s  last  plays, 
"Second  Threshold." 

It  wasn't  until  the  young  Barrys  settled 
back  in  New  York  with  Robin  that  Pat 
began  to  work  out  a  more  rigid  schedule  so 
she  could  somehow  fit  her  many  jobs  into 
a  twenty-four  hour  day.  "Phil  and  I  had 
promised  ourselves  that  we  would  stay 
home  most  evenings  and,  after  Robin  was 
in  bed,  we  would  have  a  quiet  dinner  and 
catch  up  on  our  reading  and  watch  some 
television.  It  hasn't  always  worked  out 
that  way,  of  course.  We  hear  a  play  is 
going  to  close  and  it's  something  we  feel 
we  must  see,  so  we  rush  to  get  tickets,  or 
there's  a  movie  in  the  neighborhood  we 
have  been  waiting  for.  Or  Phil  has  to 
stay  at  his  desk  and  finish  a  script  he's 
working  on,  and  I've  promised  myself  to 
run  up  some  new  slipcovers,  and  I  stay  at 
my  sewing  machine  long  after  I  should  be 
in  bed.  Sometimes  Phil  decides  to  begin 
some  home  project,  like  cutting  a  rug  into 
strips  so  we  can  re-lay  it  wall  to  wall 
(we're  getting  to  be  whizzes  at  this!),  or 
we  start  measuring  to  see  how  much  wall- 
paper a  hallway  will  need  so  we  can  spend 
the  next  weekend  being  do-it-yourself-ers. 
(Phil  does  the  high  work  and  I  do  the  low, 
and  we  plan  our  days  and  our  weeks  and 
our  lives  while  we're  at  it.)  Weekends 
when  we're  not  committed  to  some  job,  we 
take  Robin  off  on  all  sorts  of  expeditions 
around  New  York,  things  we  like  to  do, 
too— like  going  to  the  Museum  of  Natural 
History,  some  of  the  art  museums,  the 
carrousel  in  Central  Park." 

Once  a  week  the  Barrys  have  a  night  for 
entertaining,  informally,  because  that's  a 
part  of  the  plan  for  a  happy  home  life. 
Maybe  there  will  be  six  or  eight  guests, 
sometimes  ten  or  twelve,  but  they  won't 
all  be  people  in  the  Barrys'  own  profes- 
sions. There  will  be  businessmen  and 
home  women,  architects  and  lawyers,  the 
people  they  really  like  and  want  to  see. 

"We  try  to  make  it  fun  for  everyone,  in- 
cluding ourselves,"  Pat  explains.  "I'm  the 
casual  kind  of  hostess  who  thinks  the  suc- 
cess of  a  party  depends  upon  how  easy  you 
make  it  seem.  When  I  go  out,  I  dislike  to 
feel  that  my  hostess  has  worn  herself  out 
preparing  for  my  entertainment,  and  I 
assume  others  feel  the  same  way.  So  I 
plan  food  that  is  not  too  difficult  to  cook 
or  to  serve.  In  fact,  I  try  to  arrange  things 
so  that  if  someone  calls  up  unexpectedly 
either  Phil  or  I  can  say,  'Why  not  come 
and  have  dinner  with  us?'  and  have  things 
on  hand  that  will  lend  little  festive  touches 


to  an  otherwise  simple  family  meal." 

Pat  has  been  jotting  down  ideas  for  mak- 
ing entertaining  easier  and  for  simplifying 
the  day-by-day  round  of  cooking  and 
serving  meals,  and  she  hopes  to  turn  these 
notes  into  a  sort  of  guide  book  for  young 
homemakers.  Not  to  compete  with  the 
many  books  of  recipes  already  on  the  mar- 
ket, but  as  something  rather  special  for 
girls  who,  like  herself,  had  practically  no 
experience  in  these  things  before  mar- 
riage. "When  I  was  growing  up,  we  had  a 
housekeeper  who  never  let  me  come  near 
her  stove,"  she  says.  "She  ruled  the  kitchen 
and  I  learned  very  little,  as  a  consequence." 

When  she  was  growing  up,  in  Daven- 
port, Iowa,  she  was  Patricia  White,  whose 
father  is  a  well-known  doctor  and  heads  a 
clinic  there.  Both  of  her  parents  were  in- 
terested in  the  things  that  affected  their 
city  and  state,  and  Pat  became  an  inde- 
pendent, mature  little  girl  earlier  than  her 
friends  did.  (The  fact  that  her  brother 
was  fifteen  years  older  than  she  was  and 
her  sister  was  five  years  older  also  threw 
her  more  upon  her  own  resources.)  When 
she  was  quite  small,  Pat's  father  used  to 
take  her  along  on  some  of  his  calls  and 
hospital  rounds,  and  at  one  point  she  was 
quite  sure  she  wanted  to  be  a  doctor,  too. 

"I  learned  an  important  thing  from  my 
father  very  early.  I  learned  that  a  good 
doctor  has  to  love  people  and  must  give 
his  career  real  devotion.  Oddly  enough, 
I  now  feel  that  way  about  acting.  I  think 
this,  too,  requires  great  devotion  and  there 
is  very  little  place  in  my  profession  for 
the  person  who  doesn't  take  it  seriously." 

Pat  was  a  student  at  Stephens  College, 
at  Columbia,  Missouri,  during  her  high 
school  and  first  college  years,  and  studied 
drama  there  under  the  famous  Maude 
Adams,  not  because  she  thought  seriously 
of  the  stage  but  because  she  loved  the 
course.  As  she  listened  to  Miss  Adams  talk 
about  the  theater  in  New  York,  the  pro- 
ducers and  the  ways  and  means  of  getting 
into  show  business,  the  idea  of  acting  pro- 
fessionally began  to  grow  and  grow.  Her 
parents  were  not  pleased  with  this  turn  of 
events  and  insisted  that  first  she  finish  her 
college  education.  So  Pat  enrolled  at 
Barnard  College  in  New  York,  knowing 
that  at  least  half  her  interest  would  stray 
regularly  from  the  campus  to  the  Broad- 
way area  in  which  the  legitimate  theaters 
were  located.  And  especially  to  those 
streets  where  the  great  producers  sat  in 
what  she  supposed  must  be  glamorous  and 
sumptuous  suites  of  offices. 

One  day,  after  a  class,  she  decided  to 
brave  an  appearance  at  the  office  of  pro- 
ducer John  Golden.  With  her  schoolbooks 
under  her  arm  and  wearing  her  school- 
girl clothes  and  saddle  shoes,  she  sallied 
forth  and,  emerging  from  the  subway, 
found  the  address  she  was  looking  for.  Her 
heart  doing  the  usual  rat-a-tat  that  hearts 
reserve  for  such  momentous  occasions,  she 
approached  a  girl  at  the  desk  and  asked  to 
see  Mr.  Golden. 

At  that  particular  time,  Henry  and 
Phoebe  Ephron  had  a  play  in  rehearsal 
and  were  replacing  an  ingenue  who  had 
already  been  rehearsing  with  the  cast  for 
five  days.  Mr.  Ephron  happened  to  put 
his  head  out  of  an  office  door  at  the  mo- 
ment Pat  was  presenting  herself  at  the 
outer  desk.  "Are  you  an  actress?"  he 
called  out.    She  nodded. 

The  place  was  jammed  with  young 
aspirants  for  the  job,  and  for  jobs  in  gen- 
eral, and  the  only  clear  spot  was  a  little 
closet  used  for  the  cleaning  woman's  para- 
phernalia. "In  here,"  he  motioned,  and 
dutifully  Pat  entered  and  did  her  audition 
reading  from  a  script  he  thrust  into  her 
hand.  She  was  hired,  for  $75  a  week,  and 
she  felt  so  rich  that  she  would  no  longer 
need  the  family's  allowance.  Until  three 
weeks  later,  when  the  play  closed  abruptly. 


Although  the  play  didn't  get  good  notices, 
Pat  did.  Someone  from  Warners  had  seen 
her  and,  before  she  knew  it,  she  had  a 
motion  picture  contract,  this  time  for  $400 
a  week.  Before  leaving  for  the  West  Coast, 
Pat  did  one  more  play,  with  the  studio's 
blessing.  Now,  she  thought,  the  family  will 
surely  sit  up  and  take  notice.  But  the 
studio  began  to  take  cheesecake  pictures  of 
their  new  starlet  and  her  father  would  see 
them  printed  in  newspapers  and  would 
write  letters  of  protest — to  her,  to  the 
studio,  to  anyone  concerned.  It  took  the 
family  quite  a  long  time  to  get  used  to  the 
idea  of  their  little  girl  becoming  a  Holly- 
wood personality. 

Pat  sums  up  her  movie  experience  with 
a  count  of  eighteen  pictures — leads  in  B's, 
smaller  roles  in  A's  .  .  .  and  not  much  fun. 
"Because  I  was  still  a  teenager,  I  had  to 
be  careful  about  dates.  Actually,  I  knew 
very  few  young  people.  I  bought  a  little 
house  where  I  lived  with  my  aunt  and  be- 
gan to  raise  dogs,  and  I  liked  that.  Eve- 
nings, I  used  to  sit  and  do  petit  point  for  the 
little  chair  and  stool  Robin  uses  now.  It 
was  hardly  the  glamorous  life  usually  asso- 
ciated with  a  movie  career." 

A  professor  whom  Pat  had  known  at 
Stephens  was  starting  a  professional  sum- 
mer theater  at  Wellesley,  and  Columbia 
gave  her  permission  to  go  East  for  six 
weeks  to  work  with  him.  The  experience 
was  extremely  valuable.  She  played  all 
types  of  parts — in  "Accent  on  Youth"  with 
Paul  Lukas,  "Holiday"  with  Bob  Sterling, 
"First  Lady"  with  Peggy  Wood.  She  now 
plays  a  running  part  with  Peggy  in  the 
television  drama,  Mama,  whenever  the  role 
of  Nancy,  Nels'  girl  friend,  is  in  the  script. 

Then  came  the  picture  on  location  in 
New  York,  "The  Tattooed  Stranger,"  a 
"sleeper"  in  which  she  played  the  lead.  She 
wanted  to  stay  in  the  East  and  was  won- 
dering what  her  next  move  would  be, 
when  she  met  Philip.    After  that,  she  knew 


she  wanted  to  cut  her  ties  with  the  West 
Coast  and  come  back  to  New  York. 

Last  year,  Pat  realized  one  of  the  dreams 
she  had  nurtured  back  at  Stephens,  when 
she  was  still  a  student  actress.  She  was  in 
a  Broadway  play,  "The  Pink  Elephant," 
starring  Steve  Allen.  It  has  been  described 
as  "a  sort  of  popular  flop" — which  means 
that  Steve  and  Pat  and  some  others  got 
good  notices  although  the  play's  were  only 
so-so.  Another  play,  "The  Paradise  Ques- 
tion," folded  in  Philadelphia,  but  Pat  got 
good  notices  in  that  one,  too. 

First  Love  began  last  July  5,  and  she 
found  that  being  on  television  fitted  her  to 
a  T — or  maybe  we  should  say  to  a  TV! 
Actually,  Pat  had  done  many  TV  shows — 
among  them  Studio  One,  Suspense  and 
Robert  Montgomery  Presents — but  this  was 
her  first  regular  TV  show.  Anyhow,  it  is 
perfect  for  a  girl  with  a  great  big  schedule 
of  career  and  home.  It  gives  her  time  to 
keep  the  house  shipshape — to  run  up  new 
slipcovers  or  tidy  up  a  battered  piece  of 
furniture.  ("Phil  and  I  feel  that  when  you 
love  children  and  animals — we  have  a 
cocker  now  named  J.J.  and  we  used  to 
have  a  huge  cat — you  can't  be  saying 
'don't'  all  the  time,  so  there's  no  point  in 
having  fine  damasks  and  expensive  rugs, 
and  I  keep  making  things  that  can  be  easily 
replaced.")  Television  gives  Pat  time  to 
spend  with  Robin.  It  gives  her  a  show  in 
which  she  plays  the  kind  of  woman  she 
admires,  although  she  is  saddened  by  the 
fact  that  Laurie's  life  hasn't  run  smoothly. 

Maybe  Pat's  secret  of  having  a  busy  life 
and  a  happy  life  is  in  the  way  she  has 
learned  to  organize  her  time.  Maybe  it's 
in  the  way  she  knows  just  when  to  toss  a 
work  schedule  right  out  of  the  window 
and  go  off  with  Phil  and  Robin  on  some 
utterly  unexpected  and  delightful  expedi- 
tion. But  part  of  her  secret  must  surely 
be  her  enthusiasm  for  life,  and  her  love  of 
people.    Two  of  them,  in  particular! 


Magic  Gift  of  Life 


(Continued  jrom  page  41) 
into  show  business.    Get  a  little  bit  of  both 
humor  and  education  into  your  shows  and 
you'll  attract  a  bigger  audience." 

Having  qualified  for  membership  in 
Mystery  Writers  of  America — thanks  to 
Ollie's  fondness  for  playing  "detec-a-tive" 
— he  once  went  to  a  party  in  honor  of 
Anthony  Boucher,  who  reviews  mystery 
books  for  the  New  York  Times  and  also 
edits  a  science-fiction  magazine.  Shortly, 
the  two  retired  to  a  quiet  corner,  first,  to 
swap  Sherlock  Holmes  opinions,  and  second, 
to  discuss  learnedly  plans  for  a  space  ship. 
Accounting  for  his  technical  knowledge  of 
rocket  propulsion,  Burr  explained,  "Buelah 
Witch  has  been  studying  up  on  outer  space 
travel." 

He  has  many  skills.  He  can  work  a 
piece  of  wood  as  deftly  as  a  carpenter.  As  a 
sculptor  shapes  clay,  Burr  can  combine 
cloth,  padding,  buttons,  a  bit  of  hair  and 
some  paint  to  construct  a  puppet.  He  also 
can  cook,  sail  a  boat,  and  swim  like  a 
fish.  He  once  rode  a  bicycle  across 
Canada's  rugged  Gaspe  Peninsula.  Dur- 
ing recent  vacations  he  has  divided  his 
time  between  Nantucket  and  Europe.  He's 
a  fan  of  music,  ballet,  archeology  and 
model  railroads. 

Because  equipment  and  trophies  relating 
to  these  varied  pursuits  long  ago  over- 
flowed the  apartment  which  he  shares  with 
his  parents,  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Bert  Tillstrom, 
Burr  lives  in  two  places.  The  family  oc- 
cupies a  large  apartment  in  a  new  coop- 
erative building  on  Chicago's  Near  North- 
side.  Also,  as  Burr  says,  "Kuke  and  Ollie 
have  the  coach  house." 

The  coach  house  stands  at  the  rear  of 


what  was  once  one  of  the  city's  great  man- 
sions. Aided  by  his  backstage  assistant, 
Joe  Lockwood,  who  is  an  interior  decorator 
and  designer,  Burr  planned  the  remodelling 
and  did  some  of  the  work  himself.  The 
ground  floor,  which  faces  a  small  garden, 
is  his  workshop.  A  well-equipped  bench 
stretches  across  one  wall.  Miniature  stages 
cover  another,  and  a  large  area  is  kept 
open  for  whatever  project  is  under  way. 

The  second  floor  was  once  the  mansion's 
ballroom.  Burr  built  a  compact  kitchen, 
complete  with  dishwasher,  into  one  corner. 
Opposite  it  are  two  studio  couches,  set  at 
right  angles.  A  grand  piano  stands  in  the 
nook  made  by  the  staircase.  Two  sofas 
are  placed  in  front  of  a  huge  fireplace  and 
there  is  a  wide,  low  table  between  them. 
Walls  are  white,  rugs  are  off-white,  and 
upholstery  and  woodwork  are  brown.  It's 
a  pleasant  place  for  a  large  party,  and  it's 
a  second  home  for  most  of  the  Kuklapoli- 
tan  staff.  There  they  often  gather  to  work 
out  songs,  study  the  kinescopes  of  the 
show,  or  just  settle  down  to  have  a  quiet 
dinner  together. 

Bachelor  though  he  is,  Burr  has  become, 
in  effect,  the  head  of  a  large  family — for  the 
association  of  the  staff,  off-stage,  is  as  close- 
knit  as  that  of  the  Kuklapolitans  on-stage. 
Four  of  its  key  members — co-star  Fran 
Allison,  producer  Beulah  Zachary,  director 
Lewis  Gomavitz  and  special  assistant 
Joseph  Lockwood — have  worked  with  Burr 
ever  since  the  show  first  went  on  the  air  at 
Station  WBKB  on  Burr's  birthday,  Octo- 
ber 13,  1947. 

This  close  association  permits  Kukla, 
Fran  And  Ollie  to  remain  a  spontaneous 
program.    Each  person  knows  exactly  what 


Corns 

Callouses,  Bunions,  Sore  Toes 

^ggfER-¥AsTS 


Super-Soft  Dr.  Scholl's  Zino- 
pads  are  5  ways  better.  No  other 
method  does  as  much  for  you ! 

1 .  Relieve  pain  in  a  jiffy . . . 

2.  Remove  Corns,  Callouses  one 
of  the  fastest  ways  known . . . 

3.  Stop  Corns,  Callouses 
BEFORE  they  can  develop . . . 

4.  Prevent  Sore  Toes,  Blisters . . . 

5.  Ease  New  or  Tight  Shoes. 

Get  a  box  today!  Sold  everywhere. 


D-Scholls  lino-pads 


SOFT  CORNS 


91 


OX  SALE  NOW! 


The  brand-new 


EDDIE  FISHER 


MAGAZINE 


Have  you  bought  your  copy  of  this  exciting 
new  magazine?  You  won't  want  to  miss  a 
single  page  of  Eddie's  life  story — brought  to 
you  for  the  first  time  in  one  magazine. 

STORIES  .  .  .  PICTURES 

His  early  life  .  .  .  baby  pictures,  family,  his 
climb  to  the  top. 

How  he  lives  today  ...  at  home,  friends, 
career. 

His  romance:  "Eddie  And  I";  Debbie  Rey- 
nolds' own  frank  story. 


GOING   FAST! 

The  Eddie  Fisher  Magazine  is  on  newsstands 
across  the  country  now,  but  available  copies 
are  going  fast.  In  case  your  dealer  has  already 
sold  his  entire  supply,  just  fill  out  the  coupon 
below  and  enclose  25^  for  each  copy  you  wish 
to  order  for  yourself  or  your  friends. 


92 


Ideal    Publishing    Corp.,    Dept.    F 
295   Madison   Avenue 
New   York    17,    New   York 

Please  send   me copies  of  the 

EDDIE  FISHER  Magazine.  I  enclose  25« 
for  each  copy.  (Please  do  not  send 
stamps.    Send  cash  or  money  orders  only.) 


Name 
Street 
City    . 


.Zone.    .  State . 


to  expect  from  another.  They  also  know 
how  each  of  the  Kuklapolitans  can  be  ex- 
pected to  react  under  any  given  set  of  cir- 
cumstances. Program  planning  starts  with 
a  huddle.  Burr,  Fran  and  Beulah  will  get 
an  idea.  Gommy  and  Joe  will  suggest 
props.  Carolyn  Gilbert  will  think  of 
music  which  fits  in.  Only  the  music  is  re- 
hearsed. As  informally  as  this,  they  go  on 
the  air. 

Those  unfamiliar  with  the  show  always 
ask,  "How  many  people  do  the  voices?" 
The  direct  answer  is,  "One — Burr  Till- 
strom."  Those  who  work  on  the  program 
do  not  think  in  those  terms,  however.  They 
speak  of  "what  Kukla  does,"  "what  Ollie 
will  do" — though  never  forgetting  for  a 
moment  that  it  is  Burr  who  is  solely  re- 
sponsible for  getting  them  to  do  it  at  the 
right  time. 

There  is  no  need  for  a  script  writer, 
for  Fran  ad-libs  better  conversation  than 
anyone  could  write,  and  Burr  has  been 
putting  words  and  voices  into  his  charac- 
ters' mouths — and  distinct  personality  into 
their  being — all  his  life. 

Dramatizing  a  story  was  a  thing  Burr 
learned  from  his  parents.  As  young  people 
in  Benton  Harbor,  Michigan,  Bert  and  Alice 
Tillstrom  enjoyed  appearing  in  home  talent 
shows.  When  they  moved  to  Chicago,  they 
continued  their  association  with  amateur 
theater  groups. 

While  still  a  toddler,  Burr  made  his  teddy 
bear  and  toy  elephant  act  out  songs  his 
mother  sang.  At  an  age  when  other  kids 
constructed  scooters,  he  turned  an  orange 
crate  into  a  miniature  stage. 

His  father  helped  Burr  endow  speechless 
creatures  with  personality.  The  family 
spent  summers  at  Benton  Harbor  and,  as 
soon  as  Dr.  Tillstrom  arrived  for  weekends, 
Burr  and  his  older  brother,  Dick,  demanded 
stories.  Some  the  father  read  from  Alice 
in  Wonderland  and  The  Wizard  of  Oz. 
Others  he  made  up  as  he  led  the  boys  on 
long  rambling  walks  through  the  open 
country.  Creatures  took  on  character.  A 
scurrying  rabbit  was  a  messenger  car- 
rying important  news.  A  bird's  song  had 
words.  The  seldom-used  track,  meander- 
ing along  the  creek  bed,  became  "the 
pumpkin  vine  railroad."  Burr  recalls, 
"Everything  had  personality — and  two  per- 
sonalities made  a  plot." 

.Returning  to  the  city,  Burr  imparted  to 
his  toys  the  characteristics  of  his  country 
friends.  An  understanding  teacher,  noting 
his  talent,  showed  him  how  to  construct 
puppets  and  marionettes. 

Then  came  a  chain  of  circumstances 
which  inevitably  turned  Burr  Tillstrom 
into  a  puppeteer.  The  first  was  pure  luck. 
The  Tillstroms  moved  into  an  apartment 
across  the  street  from  Mrs.  Charlotte  Polak, 
sister  of  the  great  puppet  master,  Tony 
Sarg.  Lugging  one  of  his  own  marionettes, 
Burr  went  calling.  "Soon  we  kids  were 
staging  shows  in  Mrs.  Polak's  garden,  un- 
der her  direction,"  says  Burr.  "What's 
more,  we  charged  admission.  It  was  only 
a  few  cents,  but  I  felt  real  professional." 

Further  opportunity  to  study  new  tech- 
niques came  through  seeing  the  puppet 
shows  at  the  Century  of  Progress  world's 
fair  in  1933  and  attending  the  American 
Puppetry  Festival  in  Detroit  in  1936. 

The  final  swing  away  from  his  plan  to 
become  a  teacher  was  brought  about  by 
the  offer  of  a  WPA  job.  He  was  already  a 
freshman  at  the  University  of  Chicago, 
trying  to  forget  about  his  puppets,  when  the 
offer  came.  The  Chicago  Park  District, 
acting  jointly  with  the  WPA,  had  de- 
termined that  they  could  best  provide  work 
for  unemployed  theater  people  by  setting 
up  a  marionette  project.  Few,  however, 
knew  anything  about  the  techniques.  Be- 
cause Burr  already  had  done  volunteer 
shows  for  the  Park  District,  they  sought 
him  out  as  an  experienced  puppeteer. 


The  offered  salary,  while  small,  seemed 
to  Burr  much  more  attractive  than  con- 
tinuing to  take  a  schoolboy's  allowance,  for 
the  Tillstroms — while  far  from  being  on 
relief — were,  like  everyone  else,  feeling  the 
pinch  of  the  Depression.  "Temporarily" 
(he  thought)  Burr  quit  the  University  and 
joined  the  company. 

During  this  period,  Burr  began  his  first 
serious  experimenting  with  hand  puppets 
and  liked  them.  While  marionettes — 
maneuvered  by  strings  according  to  set 
plots — must  follow  a  narrator's  script,  the 
hand  puppets  allowed  him  spontaneous 
expression.  The  best  of  them,  of  course, 
was  Kukla,  the  fellow  who  twice  refused 
to  be  given  away.  Burr  took  to  carrying 
him  around  in  his  pocket. 

Difficult  as  it  is  for  any  televiewer  to 
imagine  it  today,  during  all  this  period 
Kukla  had  no  voice.  The  marionettes  were 
the  stars,  and  Kuke,  at  best,  was  only  a 
between-acts  pantomimist.  Then  an  ex- 
tremely arty  production  of  "Romeo  and 
Juliet"  was  scheduled.  Burr,  who  knew 
the  role  letter-perfect,  wanted  to  play 
Romeo.  He  ended  up,  however,  the  most 
frustrated  Shakespearean  in  Chicago,  for 
his  sole  assignment  was  to  turn  pages  of  the 
narrator's  script. 

Burr  took  the  disappointment  politely, 
but  it  was  too  much  for  Kukla.  Out  he 
popped,  during  rehearsal,  and  in  a  sweetly 
innocent  voice — reminiscent  of  one  of  the 
little  animal  characters  in  Dr.  Tillstrom's 
long-ago  stories — Kukla  took  up  Romeo's 
romantic  lines.  He  sighed  for  love,  and 
mourned  his  cruel  fate.  Then,  departing 
Shakespeare's  lines,  he  went  on  to  speak 
of  what  he  thought  the  arty  producer  was 
doing  to  Shakespeare.  Things  well-man- 
nered Burr  would  never  say  rattled  in 
sharp-barbed  comment  from  Kukla.  Says 
Burr,  "I  guess  some  of  the  rest  of  the  cast 
must  have  thought  the  same  way,  for  they 
all  started  to  laugh  and  Kukla  was  a  riot." 

From  that  time  on,  Kukla  became  an 
impromptu  entertainer  at  parties.  People 
would  ask  him  questions,  and,  as  Burr  says, 
"Kukla  was  real  smart  with  people.  When 
I  was  too  young  or  too  ignorant  to  have 
an  answer,  Kukla  took  over.  What  would 
have  been  naive,  coming  from  me,  sounded 
funny  coming  from  Kukla." 

While  Kukla  sprang  to  life  instantane- 
ously and  has  changed  little,  Ollie  origi- 
nated most  modestly — but  has  grown  like 
Jack's  beanstalk.  Traditionally,  all  puppet 
shows  had  a  dragon,  usually  a  terrifying 
creature  with  a  picket-fence  of  gnashing 
teeth.  Burr  had  a  different  idea.  He  says, 
"I  wanted  one  which  would  not  scare  even 
the  most  timid  child.  So  Ollie  got  what 
he  now  calls  his  'prehensile'  tooth." 

Ollie's  opportunity  to  display  that  tooth — 
soundlessly — came  primarily  during  ap- 
pearances in  the  children's  theater  at  Mar- 
shall Field's  department  store.  During 
those  lean  years,  Burr  worked  Mondays 
through  Fridays  as  a  sales  clerk.  Saturdays, 
with  his  mother  playing  the  piano,  they 
put  on  a  show  to  baby-sit  with  children 
while  parents  shopped. 

It  was  at  Field's  too,  that  Burr  discovered 
television.  An  RCA  demonstration  unit 
arrived  there  in  1939.  Burr  took  one  look 
at  what  happened  with  screens  and  cam- 
eras and  knew  this  was  what  was  needed 
to  present  Kukla,  Ollie  and  his  other 
little  people  as  life-size.  With  a  card  table 
as  a  stage,  he  did  his  first  show.  Neither 
Field's  nor  RCA  executives  were  impressed. 
Says  Burr,  "The  engineers  saved  us.  They 
fell  in  love  with  Kukla.  The  guys  who 
keep  things  running  always  like  Kukla." 

With  that  introduction,  Burr  became  one 
of  television's  pioneers.  In  1940,  RCA  had 
him  do  the  first  ship-to-shore  telecast,  then 
made  his  show  a  feature  of  their  exhibit 
at  the  New  York  World's  Fair.  Two  im- 
portant     developments      then      occurred: 


Kukla  set  the  pattern  of  working  with 
people,  and  OUie  found  his  voice  and 
character. 

Kukla,  it  should  be  recalled,  learned  to 
talk  to  human  beings  as  early  as  1936.  Says 
Burr,  "It's  taken  for  granted  now,  for  every 
puppet  show  has  copied  us,  but  it  was  then 
unorthodox  to  combine  puppets  and  people. 
Playing  those  ten  shows  a  day  at  the 
World's  Fair,  we  were  always  introduced 
by  a  pretty  girl.  Naturally,  Kukla  couldn't 
be  suppressed  and  so  the  girl-and -puppet 
combination  became  a  definite  routine  in 
1940.  Later,  during  my  short  stints  in  vau- 
deville and  a  few  night  clubs,  I  continued 
to  use  a  live  person  out  in  front.  Now  it 
seems  natural — but,  as  an  actual  fact,  we 
were  the  first  to  bring  it  into  the  world." 

It  was  the  VIP  visitors  to  that  RCA  ex- 
hibit who  endowed  OUie  with  personality. 
Says  Burr,  "We  did  take-offs,  kidding  the 
press,  visiting  dignitaries  and  friends, 
through  Ollie.  One  performance,  he'd  be 
a  newspaper  man,  another  an  engineer,  a 
famous  singer  or  a  big  shot  from  the  in- 
dustry. That's  where  he  found  out  he 
could  do  anything  and  be  anybody." 

Ollie's  first  major  triumph  came  at  the 
end  of  that  season.  Burr  recalls:  "Two 
close  friends,  who  also  worked  at  the 
Fair,  wrote  'St.  George  and  the  Dragon'  as 
a  satire  of  the  legend,  with  Ollie  the  hero. 
After  that,  there  was  no  holding  him.  He 
has  grown  to  be  Oliver  J.  Dragon,  bari- 
tone, son  of  Mrs.  Olivia  Dragon  of  Dragon 
Retreat,  Vermont,  first  cousin  and  guar- 
dian of  Doloras  Dragon,  and  a  great  author- 
ity on  all  dragon  lore." 

Fran  joined  up  at  WBKB.  When,  at  the 
end  of  the  war,  commercial  television  came 
in,  Burr  was  ready  for  it.  Captain  William 
Crawford  Eddy,  then  head  of  the  Balaban 
&  Katz-Paramount  station  in  Chicago, 
offered  Burr  the  first  sponsored,  hour-long, 
five-day-a-rweek  program. 

For  years,  Burr  had  dreamed  of  this. 
This  was  his  chance.  But  it  also  was  his 
chance  to  fall  flat  on  his  face,  for  Eddy — 
entranced  with  the  Kuklapolitans  and  im- 
pressed by  Burr's  own  great  charm — 
suggested  that  Burr  do  everything,  in- 
cluding coming  out  in  front  to  interview 
child   guests   and   to    do   the   commercials. 

Burr,  recalling  that  conference,  grins.  "I 
suppose  it  was  our  best  compliment,  for 
it  indicated  that  the  Kuklapolitans  were  so 
real  to  him  he  actually  thought  of  them  as 
being  self-animated.  I  almost  hated  to 
explain  that  they,  too,  kind  of  needed  me, 
backstage.  Our  producer,  Beulah  Zachary, 
and  our  director,  Lewis  Gomavitz,  were  sit- 
ting in  on  that  huddle  and,  for  a  while,  we 
hassled  the  problem  back  and  forth.  Then, 
rather  than  bring  in  an  additional  puppe- 


teer or  a  fancy  production  staff,  I  suggested 
we  revert  to  what  I  had  already  proven 
would  work — we  decided  to  have  a  five 
person  out  in  front.  Gommy  suggested 
Fran  Allison,  and  that  suited  me." 

Fran,  who  already  was  well  known  on 
the  ABC  Breakfast  Club,  proved  to  be 
gentle  with  Kukla  and  understanding  with 
Ollie,  but  it  was  a  tangle  with  Mme.  Oogle- 
pus — that  character  who  deems  herself  an 
unfading  beauty — which  made  the  situation 
jell.  The  Madame,  during  one  of  the  first 
telecasts,  made  some  acid  remark  about 
Fran's  hair.  Fran's  retort  was  quick. 
"Well,  at  least  mine's  real." 

Burr  defines  her  importance.  "It's  Fran 
who  gives  the  Kuklapolitans  reality.  Be- 
cause she  talks  to  Kukla,  Ollie  and  the 
others  exactly  as  she  would  to  humans,  the 
viewers,  too,  regard  them  as  real." 

The  Kuklapolitans  have  lived  with  zest 
on  television.  The  troupe  now  includes 
Mme.  Ooglepus,  Buelah  Witch  (who  bor- 
rowed her  name  from  Producer  Beulah 
Zachary  and  changed  the  spelling  just  to 
be  different) ;  Fletcher  Rabbit,  the  mail- 
man; Cecil  Bill,  the  stagehand;  Mercedes,' 
the  teenager;  Col.  Cracky,  Southern  gen- 
tleman; Doloras,  Ollie's  niece;  and,  oc- 
casionally, Olivia  Dragon,  Ollie's  mother. 
Once  in  a  blue  moon,  that  trouble-maker, 
Clara  Coo  Coo,  flies  in  from  North  Pole. 

It's  a  tribute  to  Burr's  mastery  of  make- 
believe  that  everyone  connected  with  the 
show  regards  it  as  a  distinct  breach  of 
etiquette  ever  to  refer  to  these  well-de- 
veloped characters  as  "puppets."  Collec- 
tively, they're  "the  kids,"  and,  individually, 
you  address  them  by  name. 

The  Kuklapolitans  could  fill  a  book 
with  the  fabulous  adventures  they  have 
had  since  that  winter  of  1947  when  there 
were  only  three  hundred  fifty-three  tele- 
vision sets  in  Chicago,  five  stations  on  the 
air  in  the  entire  United  States,  and  no  co- 
axial cable  or  networks  at  all.  They  have 
made  friends  with  millions  of  viewers,  ac- 
quired celebrities  as  their  fans,  vacationed 
in  Europe,  appeared  with  the  Boston  Pops 
Orchestra  to  do  their  now-enhanced  "St. 
George  and  the  Dragon,"  and  staged  a  con- 
cert of  their  own  in  New  York's  Town  Hall. 

The  only  experience  they  did  not  enjoy 
came  when,  after  several  seasons  at  NBC 
as  a  daily  show,  they  ran  into  scheduling 
trouble  and  emerged  with  only  a  Sunday- 
afternoon  program.  Eventually,  it  led  to 
their  moving  to  the  American  Broadcasting 
Company,  which  now  includes  WBKB  and 
is  headed  by  some  of  their  first  TV  friends. 
Fran  expressed  it  best  when  she  told  Burr, 
"It's  good  to  be  home.  I  had  been  won- 
dering what  Kukla  and  Ollie  had  been 
doing  all  week." 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward   on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every  Sunday  Afternoon,  on  MUTUAL 
Stations 


Meet  "Oklahoma's  Jolly  Widow"  who  cheerfully  admitted 
having  poisoned  four  husbands — in  March  TRUE  DETECTIVE 
Magazine  at  newsstands  now. 


you  re 
STOUT 


ree  style  book 


FREE  108-page  Style  Book  offers  you  many 

values  in  dresses  and  coats,  in  Sizes  38  to  60, 

with  slenderizing  lines,  cleverly  proportioned. 

Gay  applique  trim  and  a  convenient  zipper 

front  opening  make  this  dotted  80-square 

Percale  Dress  a  wonderful  value  at  only 

$2.98.  Others  to  $19.98.  Coats  $10.98  up.  Also 

suits,  sportswear,  undies  —  all  at  low  prices. 

Mail  coupon  now  for  your  FREE  Style  Catalog. 


Please  mall  me  FREE  Style  Book  for  Stout  Women.  (13) 


Post  Office 


00  IS  YOURS  EASILY 


For  Selling  Only  lOO  Boxes 
of  Our  Lovely  FLORAL 

EVERYDAY  GREETING  CARDS 

Their  beauty  and  value  sell  on  sight. 
You  make  75c  on  each  box.  New  21- 

Card  $1  Assortments,  unusual  Koda- 

chrome.  Lace,  Tall  Cards,  New  Gift  Items, 100      . 

other  fast -sellers.  Cash  profits  to  150%  plus 

$10-$26-$50in  Bonus  Gifts.  Get  FREE  Stationery 

Samples,  4  best  Assortments  on  approval.  $1 

Gift  Set  FREE  if  you  act  fast.  WRITE  NOWI  I 

CREATIVE  CARD  CO..  4401  Cermak  Rd. .  Dapt.  124-A,  Chicago  23,  III. 


Is  Needless  Fear  Driving 
You  Into  Dangerous 


Neglect  of 


PILES? 


■eS— neglect  that  arises  from  fear  of  learn- 
ing the   truth   is,   usually,   the   one  reason 
why   piles   and   other   rectal   disorders   can 
become  really  dangerous!  So  give  yourself 
new  peace  of  mind  and  safety  from  these 
rectal  ailments.  Get  your  FREE  copy  of  the 
important  new  bulletin  on  rectal  troubles        _ 
and  the  latest  treatment  methods.  It  is  pre- 
pared  under   the   auspices   of   the  medical        ' 
staff  of  famous  McCleary  Clinic  and  Hos-         * 
pital,  323  Elms  Blvd.,  Excelsior  Springs,  Mo. 
Write  for   your   copy   today;    this   book   is 
valuable  to  you! 

93 


HALF-SIZE 

FASHION  CATALOG 


m 


:J'ii*J 

Everything  for  YOU 

who  wear  Half-Sizes! 

Shop  by  mail  from  the 

big  Hayes  Style  Catalog 

specializing  in  sizes  12  Vfc 

to  26  '/2 — all  correctly 

Proportion-ized  for  you. 

Thefigure-molding  midriff  of 

this  printed  80-square  Percale 

Frock  is  perfect  for  half-size 

fieures— a  buy  at  only  $2.98 


/fiiA        INDIANAPOLIS  47 
INDIANA 


t098l  Please  rush  FREE  Hayes  Catalog.  (417) 

■   Name 
SIZES    !    

122y°  ,   Address 


I   Post  Office 


State 


LEARN  AT  HOME 

•  to  be  a  Nurse's  Aide 

•  Practical   Nurse 

•  or  Infant  Nurse 

prepare  in  spare  time  for  a  fascinating,  high-pay  career. 
Thousands  of  men  and  women,  18-60.  are  graduates  of 
this  physician-endorsed  course.  High  school  not  required. 
Easy  payments;  earn  as  you  learn.  Trial  plan.  56th  year. 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 
Dept  23,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,  III. 
Please  send  me  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Name 

City. St 


SWINGING 

"Hot  Canary" 

EARRINGS 

ONLY  $1.00 

(We   Pay  Tax) 

A  gorgeous  life-like  ca- 
narv,  that  actually  swingsl 
back  and  forth,  is  perched  inside  each  of  these  excit- 
ingly charming  earrings.  Hoops  are  generous  sized 
and  beautifutlv  finished  in  a  brilliant  gold  color,  with 
screw-back  clasps.  Colorful  canaries  made  of  feather- 
like material  in  bright  red,  yellow  and  blue.  They 
almost  look  real  and  their  eye-catching  motion  will 
bring  raves  whenever  you  wear  them.  Lends  that  fin- 
ishing touch  to  any  ensemble.  SATISFACTION  GUAR- 
ANTEED OR  MONEY  BACK.  Add  15rf  to  each  pair  or- 
dered   for    postage    and    handling.    No    C.O.D.'s    please. 

DOBBS  PRODUCTS  CO.,  SOD  W.  Lake  St..  Dept.  362,  Chicago  7,  III. 


SKINNY? 


AMAZING  NEW  EASY  WAY 
PUTS  ON   POUNDS   AND   INCHES 
OF  FIRM,  SOLID  FLESH 


SKINNY? 


Men,  women  and  children  who  are  thin  because  of 
poor  appetite  or  poor  eating  habits  may  quickly  put 
on  pounds  and  inches  of  firm,  solid  flesh,  thanks  to 
WATE-ON.  New  kind  of  concentrated  body  building 
all-in-one  concentrated  meal  of  easily  digested  calories 
here  at  last.  Easy  weight  gains  of  5  pounds  ...  10,  20 
even  30  pounds  reported.  No  sugary  mixture,  no  fishy 
oils,  no  drugs,  no  overeating. 


SKINNY? 


94 


WATE-ON  guards  against  fatigue,  poor  endurance, 
low  resistance.  When  underweight  is  caused  by  disease 
take  WATE-ON  under  direction  of  your  doctor. 
WATE-ON  is  fortified  with  Vitamin  D,  blood  build- 
ing red  vitamin  B12  and  other  energy  factors.  Money 
back  guarantee.  Starts  putting  on  weight  first  day. 

NOW  AVAILABLE  AT  BETTER  DRUC  AND  DEPT.  STORES. 


WATE-ON 


Homogenized  Liquid  Emulsion 

(A/»o  Concentrated  Powder  Form) 


New  Patterns  for  You 


SIZES 
12—20 


14i/2_24y2 


4839 — Look  fresh,  keep  cool,  all  summer  long  in 
this  jiffy-sew  cover-all.  No  fitting  problems — it 
wraps.  Opens  flat  for  ironing.  Misses'  Sizes  12-20. 
Size  16  takes  4%  yards  35-inch  fabric.  35$. 

4657 — Two  dresses  for  the  sewing  of  one!  With 
the  jacket  on,  this  looks  like  a  suit-dress.  Propor- 
tioned to  fit  Half  Sizes  14y2-24y2.  Size  16%  takes 
4%  yards  39-inch  fabric;  y2  yard  contrast.  350 

9326 — Sew  the  princess  ensemble  in  a  jiffy.  Bodice 
is  curved  low  above  a  billowy  skirt.  Jacket  ties  high 
for  Empire  effect.  Misses'  Sizes  10-20.  Size  16  dress, 
4%   yards   35-inch   fabric;    bolero,   V/s   yards.   350. 


SIZES 
10  —  20 


Send  35c  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to : 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  Pattern  Department, 
P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York. 


NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY 

STATE 

Add  5e  for  each  pattern  for  Ist-class  mailin 


The  Best  Reason  for  Living 


(Continued  from  page  33) 
older  brother,  was  on  the  'B'  team  at 
Hollywood  High.  This  was  Ricky's  first 
year  on  the  team.  One  night  recently,  we 
had  an  old  family  friend  in  for  dinner  and 
he  lit  up  an  after-dinner  smoke.  Ricky 
was  then  just  back  from  his  football  prac- 
tice and  taking  his  training  seriously.  He 
said  indignantly,  'Gee,  John,  what  are  ya 
trying  to  do — fumigate  us  all?'  " 

The  fourth  rule  of  adult  behavior  which 
the  Nelson  boys  are  learning  is  to  talk 
over  family  problems  objectively.  "If  a 
problem .  comes  up,"  says  Harriet,  "we 
have  a  war  council.  After  the  discussion, 
if  we  are  not  all  in  agreement,  we  take  a 
vote.  Last  week,  I  told  one  of  the  girls 
at  the  studio  about  this  bit  of  family 
business.  She  asked  me:  'What  happens 
when  there  are  two  votes  on  your's  and 
Ozzie's  side  and  two  votes  on  the  kids' 
side?'  I  told  her:  'We  talk  it  over  some 
more.' 

"But  actually,  there's  a  meeting  of  the 
minds.  In  our  family  relations,  we  don't 
bump  into  many  brick  walls.   .   .   ." 

A  fifth  step  the  Nelson's  have  taken, 
which  helps  them  understand  one  another 
better,  has  to  do  with  the  boys'  friends: 
Ricky  and  David  make  sure  Ozzie  and 
Harriet  are  introduced  to  their  pals,  and 
the  Nelsons  make  sure  the  boys'  friends 
are  welcome  in  the  home  whenever  pos- 
sible. 

"Not  only  do  we  know  all  of  the  gang," 
says  Harriet,  "but  they  feel  very  com- 
fortable with  Ozzie  and  me — which  we 
consider  a  great  compliment. 

"As  for  welcoming  them  into  the  house, 
it  seems  there  is  always  one  home  in  the 
group  they  pick  out  to  land  in.  Since  ours 
has  the  pool,  we're  it.  But  we're  glad 
they  come  to  us. 

"Last  week,  for  example,  David  came  in 
late  with  Mike,  one  of  his  friends.  They 
went  upstairs  to  sleep,  but  Ricky  already 
had  two  of  his  friends  in  David's  bunks. 
So  David  and  Mike  went  downstairs  to  the 
study. 

"When  I  came  in  for  breakfast,  Mike 
and  David  made  their  way  sleepily  in  from 
the  den,  three  kids  came  down  from  the 
upstairs  bedrooms,  and  then  five  more 
walked  in — four  of  them  girls  who  had 
spent  the  night  at  one  of  the  girl's  houses 
down  the  street.  They  had  all  been  to- 
gether the  night  before  and  had  been  in- 
vited for  breakfast! 

"Well,  everybody  pitched  in  on  the  pan- 
cakes, and  we  all  sat  round  the  kitchen 
table  gabbing.  As  far  as  they  were  con- 
cerned, I  didn't  exist,  or  was  considered 
part  of  the  gang — they  were  completely 
uninhibited.  It  is  a  very  comfortable  re- 
lationship. 


"And,  you  know,  I  have  great  admira- 
tion for  the  kids  today.  They  have  so  much 
more  sense,  it  seems,  than  I  had  when  I 
was  their  age.  They  talk  more  sensibly; 
their  attitudes  toward  one  another  are 
straight-forward;  they  have  a  keen  sense 
of  humor.  It  all  adds  up  to  the  fact  that 
they  have  loads  of  common  sense — and, 
because  of  it,  we  must  learn  to  respect 
them   as   individuals." 

Teenagers  should  have  a  healthy  respect 
for  money.  This  is  the  final  subject  on 
which  Ozzie  and  Harriet,  as  parents,  and 
David  and  Ricky,  as  teenagers,  agree.  "We 
have  always  felt,"  says  Harriet,  "that  prob- 
lems concerning  money  and  allowances 
should  be  talked  over,  an  agreement 
reached.  And  we  have  always  felt  that, 
where  possible,  teenagers  should  try  to 
find  some  way  to  earn  money.  If  they 
don't,  how  could  you  expect  them  to  learn 
the  value  of  the  dollar? 

"The  strange  thing  about  our  boys," 
says  Harriet,  "is  that  they  consider  the 
television  show  as  pleasure,  not  work! 

"David  came  to  me  one  day,  saying:  'I 
think  I'll  get  a  job  on  Saturdays.  They 
need  an  extra  man  down  at  the  gas  station.' 

"And  I  said,  'You  can't  do  that.  You 
have  too  much  other  work  to  do  .  .  .  be- 
sides, aren't  you  making  enough  money?' 

"  'Well,  I  know,'  he  said,  'but  this  is  the 
kind  of  work  where  I  can  keep  the  money 
I  make — it  won't  have  to  go  into  the  trust 
fund.  All  the  other  guys  have  jobs,  and 
the  money  they  earn  they  keep!' 

"Ozzie  and  I  immediately  talked  it  over. 
We  agreed  that,  whatever  the  other  boys 
earned,  that's  the  kind  of  money  David 
should  have. 

"And  that's  the  way  we  settled  it.  To- 
day, as  a  matter  of  fact,  I  can  ask  Dave  if 
he  needs  any  money,  and  he  says:  'No, 
thanks,  we're  going  to  the  park  for  a 
weinie  roast  and  I  won't  need  any.'  So 
we  feel  he  knows  what  a  dollar  means. 

"It's  wonderful,"  says  Harriet  in  con- 
clusion, "how  able  the  teenagers  of  today 
are.  I  know  I  hear  some  of  the  most  in- 
telligent conversations  when  I  listen  in 
on  this  gang  of  ours. 

"After  all,  is  there  anything  more  im- 
portant than  your  children?  Ozzie  and  I 
think  it's  our  reason  for  being  here.  So, 
we  should  do  our  best  to  help  them  along. 

"In  many  respects  they  are  really  very 
grown-up.  Rather  than  pointing  up  teen- 
adult  differences — by  saying,  'When  you 
act  like  adults,  we'll  treat  you  like  adults' 
— it  would  be  good  if  more  parents  tried 
to  bridge  the  gaps  between  themselves  and 
their  children,  to  find  the  common  ground 
they    could    share. 

"Then  we  really  will  be  treating  them 
like  grownups." 


Our  "COLOR  SPECTACULARS"  for  April 

Tops  on  the  Raymond  Scotts'  own  "Hit  Parade"  is  baby  Deborah,  of 
whose  blessed  arrival  young  mama  Dorothy  Collins  can  only  say: 
"You  can't  put  it  into  words!"  But  their  touching  story  speaks  for  itself 
— and  so  do  the  colorful  pictures  of  the  happiest  threesome  in  broad- 
casting. .  .  .  Happiest  foursome,  these  days,  is  The  Chordettes,  who 
hit  the  heights  with  "Mr.  Sandman" — and  have  been  living  on  Cloud  7 
ever  since.  .  .  .  Also  in  color — and  the  intimate  kind  of  story  we  always 
bring  you — the  personal  revelations  of  Mrs.  Durward  Kirby  and  her 
life  with  the  popular  comedian-announcer  of  the  Garry  Moore  shows. 
.  .  .  Just  three  of  the  picture-packed,  near-as-next-door  features  in  our 

April  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  •  On  sale  March  8 


IF  YOU  SUFFER 


PAIN 


get 


of  HEADACHE 
NEURALGIA 
NEURITIS 


i®mm 


the  way  thousands  of 

physicians  and  dentists  recommend. 
HERE'S  WHY  .  .  .  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's 
prescription.  That  is,  Anacin  contains  not 
fust  one  but  a  combination  of  medically 
proved  active  ingredients.  No  other  product 
gives  faster,  longer-lasting  relief  from  pain 
of  headache,  neuralgia,  neuritis  than  Anacin 
tablet;.  Buy  Anacin®  today! 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 


Immediate 
Relief! 

A  few  drops  of  OTJTGEO®  bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  Ingrown  nail.  OUTGBO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OTJTGEO  Is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so> 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

Now  this  new  healing  substance  is  offered 
in  ointment  form  under  the  name  of 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  stores 
—money  back  guarantee.  *Beg.  tj.  s.  Pat.  on. 


MOVIE  &  TV  STAR 

PICTURES 


1120 


EXCITING!  All  your  favor, 
lies.  Newest  intimate  off  guard  ^ 
photos.  Professional  wallet  size 
—  suitable  for  framing.  Holly, 
wood's  Biggest  Offer!  Hurry!  ' 
ORDER  SEVERAL  FOR 
GIFTS  WHILE  THEY  LAST! 
PHPPI  with  your  order! 
rlfFrl  GIFT  (<vonh  75*)  -private  HOME 
I  (lljba  ADDRESSES,  plus  other  REVEAL- 
ING INFORMATION  of  100's  OTHER  TOP 
STARS.  Also  GIANT  NEW  CATALOG  contain- 
ing ADDITIONAL  HUNDREDS  OF  PHOTOS 
AND  NAMES  of  Newest  Stars-all  is  SENT  FREE 
WITH  YOUR  ORDER  if  you  act  now! 
HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STAR  CENTER 

STUDIO  L-3.  BOX  2309,  HOLLYWOOD  28,  CALIF. 


FREE  CATALOG-MONUMENTS  FROM  $14.95 

Monuments  of  rare  beauty  and  artistic  perfection 
are  now  sold  by  mail  at  astounding  savings.  All 
carving,  polishing  and  finishing  operations  are  done  j 

in  the  modern  Rockdale  plant.  Exclusive  sale  by 
mail  direct  to  the  consumer  guarantee  lowest  prices. 
Prices  include  inscription  and  Rockdale  pays  the  R 

freight.  Write  today  for  FREE  illustrated  catalog  of 
over  50  monuments.  No  obligation. 
RockdaleMonurnentConipany,Dept.899>Joliet,lll. 

95 


Sing  and  Be  Happy 


Be  Your  Own 
MUSIC  Teacher 

LEARN  AT  HOME  THIS   QUICK    MONEY-SAVING  WAY 

Simple  as  A-B-C.  Your  lessons  consist  of  real  selections, 
instead  of  tiresome  exercises.  You  read  real  notes  —  no 
"numbers"  or  trick  music.  Some  of  our  900,000  students 
are  band  LEADERS.  Everything  is  in  print  and  pictures. 
First  you  are  told  what  to  do.  Then  a  picture  shows  you 
how.  Then  you  play  it  yourself  and  hear  how  it  sounds. 
Soon  you  are  playing  your  favorite 
music.  Mail  coupon  for  Free  36-page 
illustrated  book.  Mention  your  favorite 
instrument  U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC. 
Studio  A-203.  Port  Washington,  New  York. 

lu       S.    SCHOOL  OF    MUSIC,    Studio   A203. 

I    Port  Washington,    N.    Y. 
Please   send  me  your   FREE    36-page  Illustrated  book.    ■ 
I   would  like  to  play    (Name  Instrument). 

Have  you 
J  instrument Instrument? | 

„  Name    •  • I 

(Please  Print)  I 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


'For  Quick  Relief 
Ask  your  Druggist  lot 


DENT'S 


TOOTH  GUM 
1001H  DROPS 
POUUICt 


WANT  70  BE 
A  PRACTICAL 


ACT  NOW-HELP  FILL  THE  NEED 

L  Now  you  can  prepare  for  practical  experience 
*  as  a  Trained  Practical  Nurse  in  spare  time 
[  Many  earn  while  learning.  Ages  18  to  65.  High 
chool  not  necessary.  Easy  payments.  Write 
-  .or  free  information  and  sample  lesson  pages. 
WAYNE  SCHOOL  OF  PRACTICAL  NURSING,  INC. 

i  Sheffield  Ave.,   Desk  E-83,   Chicago  14.   III. 


'Tim^t 


ENLARGEMENT 

o/you/1  Fai/OfMe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 
Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
ity 5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
shot, photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
;  clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
uwJfffT^,  Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
<^>7>//iiuH««  ment  beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10#  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

HOLLYWOOD   FILM   STUDIOS,    Dept.    F-8 

7021    Santa    Monica    Blvd.,    Hollywood    38.    Calif. 


Permanent  Coloring* 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 


SWIMPROOr    One  application  lasls 
4  to  5  weeks'  Out  ?lsl  year. 
•for  lh»*  hairs  to  which  applied 

$1.00  (plus  fox)  al  leading 
drug  and  dep'l.  slores 

Send  TODAY     f 
to, TRIAL  SIZE  ," 


*£? 


96 


"DARK-EYES"  Depl.  P-35 
3319  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24. 


Check  Shade:  O  Black        I"  I   Brown 


Address  - 
Town 


.J 


(Continued  from  page  53) 
sing  and  loves  to  perform,  isn't  bothered 
by  nerves,  temper  or  frustrations,  consid- 
ers her  work  fun,  and  her  job  as  one  of 
the  four  singing  stars  on  Your  Hit  Parade 
just  about  the  most  desirable  occupation 
she  could  wish  to  have. 

This  is  her  second  year  on  the  show 
and  her  popularity  is  climbing  steadily. 
But  Gisele's  had  no  cause  for  complaints 
ever  since  she  made  her  debut  as  a  singer 
on  the  Canadian  radio  network  eight  years 
ago,  starring  in  her  own  weekly  quarter- 
hour  show,  Meet  Gisele.  Still  only  a  teen- 
ager, the  impact  of  her  personality  and 
song  styling  on  Canadian  audiences  was 
so  immediate  that  she  was  singing  on  three 
other,  separate  shows  within  a  month  after 
she'd  made  her  bow  on  October  8,  1946. 
Meet  Gisele  became  enormously  popular. 
The  show  stayed  on  the  air  for  four  years, 
earning  Miss  MacKenzie  the  title  of  "Can- 
ada's First  Lady  of  Song"  and  winning  her 
many  friends  within  range  of  the  Canadian 
Broadcasting  Corporation  in  this  country 
as  well. 

It  was  inevitable  that  Gisele  would 
eventually  transfer  her  talents  to  the 
larger  field  of  the  U.S.  The  call  came 
four  years  ago,  when  she  became  the  fea- 
tured singer  on  Bob  Crosby's  Club  Fif- 
teen. Subsequently,  she  took  the  female 
lead  on  The  Mario  Lanza  Show,  accepted 
many  bookings  into  swank  supper  clubs 
such  as  New  York's  Cotillion  Room,  made 
numerous  guest  appearances — and  even- 
tually landed  on  Your  Hit  Parade. 

Success  has  come  easily  to  Gisele.  She's 
got  talent  to  burn,  looks,  charm,  person- 
ality and  a  lovely  voice  ...  it  seems  she 
couldn't  have  missed  had  she  tried.  But  it 
actually  took  twelve  years  of  relative  frus- 
tration as  a  violinist,  a  severe  attack  of 
boils — and  a  slight  case  of  burglary — be- 
fore Gisele  quit  struggling  and  accepted 
her  fate  as  a  singer. 

Gisele  MacKenzie — who  was  born  in 
Winnipeg,  Canada,  and  whose  native 
tongue  is  French — has  never  in  her  life 
had  a  lesson  in  singing  or  voice  training. 
She  nevertheless  comes  by  her  superb 
musicianship  honestly.  Her  mother  was  a 
noted  concert  singer  and  pianist  by  the 
name  of  Marietta  Manseau  who,  before 
her  marriage  to  Gisele's  father,  toured 
Canada  successfully  for  a  number  of  years. 
Her  father,  Dr.  Georges  MacKenzie  La- 
Fleche,  is  a  medical  doctor  with  a  passion 
for  music.  Gisele  herself  started  picking 
out  tunes  on  the  piano  at  the  advanced 
age  of  three.  When  her  mother  began  to 
coach  the  little  girl,  she  discovered  that 
Gisele  had  absolute  pitch — the  ability  to 
identify  any  given  note  out  of  context — a 
rare  and  envied  gift  even  among  practiced 
musicians. 

It  was,  therefore,  pretty  much  of  a  fore- 
gone conclusion  that  Gisele  was  going  to 
make  her  mark  in  music.  It  was  decided 
that  she  was  to  learn  to  play  an  instru- 
ment. "Dad  always  had  a  special  love  for 
the  violin,"  says  Gisele.  "I  guess  it  was 
kind  of  taken  for  granted  that  I  had  in- 
herited it  and  would  achieve  the  fulfill- 
ment as  a  fiddler  he  didn't  have." 

At  seven,  Gisele  was  given  a  violin  and 
started  to  take  lessons.  Talented,  ambi- 
tious and  hard-working,  she  made  rapid 
progress,  giving  her  first  solo  recital  at  the 
Royal  Alexandra  Hotel  in  Winnipeg  when 
she  was  only  twelve.  When  she  was  four- 
teen, her  parents  sent  her  to  Toronto  to 
study  at  the  Royal  Conservatory  of  Music 
there.  She  was  good  enough  to  win  a  schol- 
arship at  the  graduate  school  and  might 
conceivably  have  gone  on  to  win  fame  as 
a  serious  violin  virtuoso — if  it  hadn't  been 


for  a  number  of  incidents  which  changed 
the  course  of  her  life  and  her  career. 

During  her  last  years  at  the  Conserva- 
tory, toward  the  end  of  the  war,  Gisele 
frequently  entertained  at  service  clubs 
and  shows  for  the  troops.  In  a  relaxed 
mood,  she  more  often  sang — accompanying 
herself  on  the  piano — than  she  played  the 
fiddle.  The  enjoyment  she  herself  got  from 
her  singing  was  infectious,  transmitting 
itself  to  her  audiences.  Gisele  had  fun; 
she  was  popular;  but  it  didn't  seriously 
occur  to  her  that  this  kind  of  entertain- 
ment could  ever  compete  with  her  career 
as  a  violinist. 

At  least  one  man  who'd  heard  her  at 
these  shows  thought  differently,  though. 
Bob  Shuttleworth,  a  young  bandleader 
with  the  Royal  Canadian  Navy,  was  im- 
pressed with  the  warmth  of  her  personal- 
ity and  the  versatility  of  her  talent.  Back 
in  civvies  and  leading  his  own  band  again 
the  following  summer,  he  remembered 
Gisele  when  she  applied  for  a  summer 
job  as  a  violinist  at  the  Glenmount  Hotel 
on  the  Lake  of  Bays  in  Ontario.  Shuttle- 
worth  hired  her,  though  he  didn't  have  a 
vacancy  for  a  violinist,  figuring  he  could 
always  use  a  girl  like  Gisele  as  a  triple- 
threat  performer. 

ohuttleworth  soon  became  convinced, 
however,  that  Gisele's  future  lay  in  her 
rich  and  beautiful  contralto  voice,  rather 
than  in  playing  an  instrument,  and  he 
encouraged  her  to  concentrate  on  her  sing- 
ing exclusively. 

The  suggestion  didn't  sit  too  well  with 
Gisele  at  first.  To  think  that  she  had  slaved 
over  the  violin  for  years  and  years  only  to 
be  told  to  drop  it  and  do  something  instead 
that  she'd  been  able  to  do  right  along  any- 
way! It  didn't  make  sense.  "Singing  was 
one  of  the  things  I'd  never  taken  very 
seriously,"  she  says.  "I'd  done  it  all  my 
life.  It  was  as  easy  and  natural  to  me  as 
drawing  a  breath  of  air." 

The  winter  following  her  engagement 
with  Shuttleworth's  band  was  Gisele's  last 
at  the  Conservatory,  and  she  worked  ter- 
ribly hard  for  her  graduation.  She  con- 
tinued helping  out  Shuttleworth  occasion- 
ally, in  order  to  earn  a  little  extra  money. 
"I  could  see  the  kid  was  wearing  herself 
out,"  he  says  of  that  period.  "Among  other 
things — like  losing  weight  and  having  a 
lot  of  colds — she  developed  a  series  of  bad 
boils  that  often  made  it  impossible  for 
her  to  hold  the  violin.  I'm.  convinced  that 
the  cause  of  most  of  it  was  psychological, 
that  she  was  in  conflict,  fighting  the  fiddle. 
I  kept  telling  her  to  relax,  not  to  take  her 
music  so  seriously,  and  to  sing  instead, 
since  that  was  what  came  to  her  so  natu- 
rally. But  she  couldn't  let  go. 

"One  Saturday  night,  she  was  helping 
me  out  on  short  notice  and  left  her  violin 
in  my  locked  car.  It  was  a  beautiful 
Ceruti,  worth  several  thousand  dollars. 
Her  folks  had  given  it  to  her  at  great 
sacrifice.  You  can  imagine  her  shock 
when  she  came  back  to  the  car  and  found 
somebody    had    broken    in    and    stolen    it. 

"Gisele  was  heartbroken  at  first,  but 
that's  what  actually  tipped  the  scales  and 
made  her  decide  to  become  a  singer.  She 
graduated  on  a  borrowed  violin  and, 
though  her  folks  got  the  money  from  the 
insurance  company,  she  didn't  buy  an- 
other one  of  her  own  until  several  years 
later.  I  think  Gisele  took  the  theft  as  a 
hint  from  Providence.  I  suspect  she  was 
actually  relieved  that  the  struggle  was 
over  at  last." 

Gisele  herself  readily  admits  today  that 
the  violin  never  was  easy  for  her.  "I 
formed  a  queer  emotional  relationship  to 
it  quite  early,"  she  relates,  "and  I  never 


got  over  it  or  got  it  straightened  out. 
Sure — I  loved  the  instrument,  and  I  still 
do;  and  I  did  achieve  a  certain  mastery  of 
it,  but  it's  never  been  an  easy,  relaxed 
kind  of  a  love  affair.  It's  always  been  a 
struggle  of  sorts.  I  remember  how  I  used 
to  come  home  from  school,  have  a  glass 
of  milk  and  my  'tartine'  and  then  have 
exactly  fifteen  minutes  for  playing  out- 
doors before  I  had  to  get  back  inside  and 
start  practicing.  How  I  used  to  envy  some 
of  the  other  kids  who  didn't  have  a  special 
talent  and  could  romp  all  afternoon.  And 
I  didn't  really  start  enjoying  the  instru- 
ment until  quite  a  few  years  later,  when 
I  was  fourteen  or  fifteen  and  became  rea- 
sonably good  at  it.  Of  course,  by  that 
time  the  demands  made  of  me  by  my 
teacher  were  correspondingly  greater." 

Gisele  has  no  regrets,  though,  over  the 
sacrifices  she  made  and  the  years  she  spent 
in  preparation  for  something  she  isn't  using 
now.  "It  certainly  was  not  a  waste  of  time 
as  far  as  I'm  concerned,"  she  says.  "It's 
given  me  confidence,  discipline,  and  back- 
ground. In  addition  to  studying  the  violin, 
I  learned  the  piano,  counterpoint,  compo- 
sition, and  harmony  at  the  Conservatory. 
I'm  sure  all  of  it  helps  in  some  way." 

And  unlike  her  great  friend,  that  noted 
American  violinist,  Jack  Benny,  Gisele 
feels  not  in  the  least  frustrated  over  not 
being  an  acclaimed  virtuoso.  "Jack  is 
really  interested  in  the  violin,"  she  relates. 
"He  practices  from  one  to  four  hours  each 
day  and  is  much  better  than  he  makes 
people  think  he  is.  Jack  has  told  me  he'd 
rather  be  a  really  fine  fiddler  than  a 
comedian.  Me — I  can  take  it  or  leave  it.  I'm 
perfectly  happy  being  what  I  am." 

Her  associates  usually  refer  to  Gisele  as 
a  "natural."  "I've  never  known  anyone 
with  quite  so  much  facility,"  says  Bill 
Colloran,  director  of  Your  Hit  Parade.  Bob 
Shuttleworth,  who  is  now  her  manager, 
says:  "Everything  she  does  is  effortless. 
She'll  sight-read  a  new  song  and  learn  it 
in  half  the  time  it  takes  anybody  else  I 
know." 

As  she  looks  back  over  the  years  of  her 
teens  and  childhood,  there's  now  very 
little  doubt  in  Gisele's  mind  that — with- 
out acknowledging  it — she  really  always 
wanted  to  be  a  singer.  "The  itch  must  have 
been  pretty  deep,"  she  recalls.  "I  used  to 
sing  all  the  time.  Even  at  the  Conserva- 
tory, when  Kathleen  Parlow,  my  teacher, 
asked  me  to  repeat  a  certain  phrase  I'd 
played,  I  had  a  habit  of  singing  it.  'Don't 
sing  it — play  it,'  she  used  to  scold  me." 

Another  instance  she  remembers  is  the 
disappointment  she  felt  over  not  being 
given  any  of  the  solos  in  church.  "Nowa- 
days, when  I  go  home  for  a  visit,  I'm  al- 
ways asked  to  sing  in  church.  Ten  or 
twelve  years  ago  that  would  really  have 
been  a  thrill!" 

Gisele  is  very  fond  of  her  family,  but 
she  is  too  busy  to  get  home  to  Winnipeg 
more  than  once  or  twice  a  year.  She  is  the 
second  oldest  and,  besides  her  mother  and 
father,  has  two  brothers  and  two  sisters. 
Though  Gisele  is  now  the  only  professional 
musician  among  them,  everybody  in  her 
family  is  musical  and  plays  an  instrument. 
"We  form  a  small  band  of  our  own  and 
always  have  a  lot  of  music  when  I  get 
home,"  she  says. 

She  thinks  her  parents  are  a  little  dis- 
appointed, though,  that  she  didn't  stick 
to  the  violin.  "They're  very  proud,  of 
course,  that  I've  had  success  in  popular 
music.  But  I'm  afraid  that  Dad,  especially, 
would  have  preferred  seeing  me  become 
a  really  fine,  serious  musician." 

As  for  herself,  Gisele  definitely  no  longer 
has  any  aspirations  in  "long  hair"  music. 
"I  have  just  two  ambitions,"  she  says. 
"I'd  like  to  do  a  musical  on  Broadway — 
or   in   Hollywood — someday.    And   I   want 


to  make  a  really  successful  record.  I've 
never  had  one  yet." 

Although  none  of  her  records  have  as 
yet  sold  in  the  legendary  million-plus  class, 
Gisele  isn't  doing  badly  as  a  busy  and 
popular  recording  artist  for  Capitol  rec- 
ords. Besides  popular  hits,  she  also  records 
folk  songs  in  English  and  French,  and  re- 
cently made  an  album  of  French  songs 
for  children.  She  is  completely  bilingual 
and  has  no  trace  of  an  accent. 

When  Gisele  first  came  to  this  country, 
she  lived  on  the  West  Coast,  but  she  has 
made  her  home  in  New  York  City  for  the 
past  two  years — since  she  started  appear- 
ing on  Your  Hit  Parade.  She's  undecided 
as  to  which  part  of  the  country  she  prefers. 
"New  York  is  more  exciting  and  stimulat- 
ing. Out  West,  on  the  other  hand,  I  liked 
the  chance  of  being  outdoors  so  much." 

Ohe  doesn't  go  in  for  strenuous  exercise 
but  likes  being  outdoors  and  frequently 
can  be  seen  walking  through  Central  Park 
with  her  two  long-haired  dachshunds— 
Brunhilde  ("Bruna"  for  short)  and  Wolf- 
gang von  Bagel  (or  "Wolfie").  Gisele  is 
devoted  to  them,  taking  them  wherever 
she  goes.  They're  exceptionally  well-be- 
haved, quiet  and  obedient  and,  over  the 
course  of  the  years,  have  become  excellent 
travelers.  A  minor  point  of  disagreement 
between  Gisele  and  her  dogs  is  that  Bruna 
and  Wolfie  aren't  very  fond  of  music. 
They'll  usually  put  up  with  it,  but  Wolfie, 
the  younger  and  more  aggressive  of  the 
two,  nearly  ruined  the  show,  not  long  ago 
when  his  mistress  decided  he  should  get 
into  the  act  and  start  earning  his  keep. 
She  was  singing  her  song  to  him  and,  as 
the  camera  turned  toward  him,  Wolfie  be- 
gan to  growl.  "It  was  the  low,  angry  growl 
that  usually  precedes  his  bark,"  she  re- 
calls. "I  was  sure  he'd  start  barking — and 
sure  he'd  come  in  off-beat.  I  still  don't 
know  what  made  him  finally  decide  not  to!" 

Altogether,  much  as  Gisele  loves  animals, 
they  have  a  habit  of  not  treating  her  well 
professionally.  There  was  the  horse  men- 
tioned before,  there  was  Wolfie,  and  there 
was  another  dog,  a  bloodhound,  who — tied 
to  a  papier-mache  tree  stumn  while  she 
was  singing  "Wanted" — decided  he  had 
had  enough  and  started  to  walk  away, 
dragging  the  stump  with  him.  An  alert 
camera  man  saved  the  situation  that  time 
by  quickly  swinging  the  camera  away 
from  him. 

Gisele  had  Brunhilde  given  to  her  as  a 
pup  when  she  was  still  living  in  Toronto. 
(Wolfie  was  a  later — and  American— ac- 
quisition to  keep  Bruna  company.)  The 
apartment  house  where  she  lived  at  the 
time  didn't  permit  dogs,  and  Gisele  secretly 
harbored  Bruna  for  four  months,  sneaking 
the  puppy  in  and  out  of  the  house  under 
her  coat.  When  Bruna  got  too  big  and 
wiggly,  Gisele  started  to  attract  unwel- 
come attention  by  the  gyrations  she  per- 
formed to  keep  the  puppy  out  of  sight,  and 
decided  to  move  to  a  new  apartment. 

This  apartment,  rented  in  order  to  ac- 
comodate her  little  dachshund,  turned  out 
to  be  an  expensive  proposition.  It  was  the 
first  she'd  rented  herself,  not  as  a  "sub- 
let." Well-paid  and  feeling  secure  in  her 
radio  job  on  the  CBC,  Gisele  rented  an 
elegant  duplex  and  proceeded  to  decorate 
it  with  abandon.  Shortly  after  she  moved 
in,  the  job  in  California  with  Bob  Crosby 
came  through  and  she  had  to  give  up  the 
apartment.  The  transaction  cost  her  a  good 
bit  of  money — she  had  to  sell  her  furniture 
at  a  loss — and  she  hasn't  dared  to  furnish 
another  apartment  since.  At  present  she 
lives  in  a  pleasant  "sub-let"  off  Central 
Park  South. 

Gisele  has  the  wholesome  prettiness  of 
the  girl  next  door.  And  this  appearance 
certainly  isn't  deceiving!  Despite  her  suc- 
cess in  show  business  and  the  glamour  of 


HEADACHE 


Get  to  feeling 
GOOD  AGAIN! 

Alka- 


Get  fast  relief  for  a  headache  . .  with 
ALKA-SELTZER!  You  get  the  fast- 
acting  effectiveness  of 
sodium  acetyl  salicylate 

absorbed  by  the  system 

faster  for  faster  pain-relief. 
Try  ALKA-SELTZER. 

AT  All  DRUG  COUNTERS 


MILES  LABORATORIES.  INC..  ELKHART,  IND 


M  A  DRESS  SHOPS 


IJtljKstabllshecl  New  York  firm  desires  ambitious 
^■^women  to  sell  dresses,  suits,  featuring  the 
newest  New  York  look.  EXPERIENCE  UNNECES- 
SARY. Oood  oommlssloas.  FREE  DRESSES  to  wear  as 
bonus.  No  Investment.  Write  for  sample  book. 
BELLECRAFT   FASHIONS,  111  Eighth  Ave.,  Dept.  TS-3,  N.  Y. 


200  Z  Child's  Photo 


ALL   AGES— ALL  TYPES 

Your  child's  photo  may  bring  you 
as  much  as  $200  from  one  na- 
tional advertiser!  Big  demand  for 
pictures  of  boys  and  girls  6  months 
to  18  years,  to  be  used  for  Calen- 
dars, Billboards  and  Magazines.  A 
wonderful  opportunity  foryour child! 
Send  only  ONE  small  photo  for  our 
approval.  Print  child's  name,  age, 
and  parent's  name  and  address  on 
back.  Picture  returned  in  30  days. 
ACT  NOW!  NO  OBLIGATION! 
(Not  a  contest) 
SPOTLITE   PHOTOS 


Becky  Hanf's  photo 
earned  $200  from 
■tiser" 


5880-CMW  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


MATERNITY 

"1.  STYLE  BOOK 

FREE 


LANE  BRYANT 
Maternity  clothes  are  new 
Fifth  Avenue  styles  that 
keep  you  smart  throughout 
pregnancy.  Adjust  easily  to 
your  changing  figure. 

•  Misses'  Sizes  10  to  20 

•  Junior  Sizes  9  to  17 

•  Women's  Sizes  36  to  44 
Dresses  from  $2.98  up;  also 

supporters,  undies.  Everything 
for  Baby,  too.  LOW  prices. 
Mall  coupon  for  your  FREE 
Style  Book  In  plain  wrapper. 


■  Mail  FREE  Maternity  Style  Book  In  plain  wrapper. 

(809) 


Name. 


'  Post  Office. 


97 


98 


SAVE  ON 

STYLE 

APPAREL 

In  all  the  world  no  catalog-  so 
glamorous  and  exciting!  See 
page  after  page  of  Fashion 
Awarel  for  mother,  children, 
and  dad  .  .  .  new,  dramatic 
style  ideas  in  high  quality 
apparel  at  astonishing  low 
prices.  Money-  Back  Guar- 
antee. Over  Vz  million  thrifty 
women  acclaim  South  Caro- 
lina Mills  for  newest  styles, 
biggest  savings.  Cat  alogr  free 
for  asking!  Just  send  name, 
address  on  coupon  below  to: 
SOUTH  CAROLINA  MILLS,  Dept.  281,  Spartanburg,  S.C. 

|    PASTE  ON    POSTCARD  &.  MAIL~1 

SOUTH  CAROLINA  MILLS,  Dept. 281         j 

I    SPARTANBURG,  S.  C. 

|    Please  rush  FREE  and  postpaid,  new  Spring  1955  Catalog,    j 

•     NAME I 


CITY- STATE.. 


ASTH  MA 

NO-COST  TRIAL  OFFER! 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


WRITE 
FOR 

IP  YOU  SUFFER  FROM  BRONCHIAL  ASTHMA 
PAROXYSMS,  from  coughs,  gasping  wheezing  . . . 
write  quick  for  daring  No-Risk,  No-Coat  Trial  Offer.  No 
matter  if  you  consider  your  case  "hopeless" — Write  Todayl 
NACOR.  107-T  State  Life  Bldg.,  Indianapolis  4,  Ind. 

■H 

IV  .  /  ■      Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
I     lng  to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New 

■  ,  I     Booklet — "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 

■  J  ■  HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
J^  M  H  Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
*J  ^^^H  used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
BBaHaaaaBfl  success.  Praised  and  en-| 

dorsed  by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave. 
Dept.  C-47.    Milwaukee  12,  Wisconsin! 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


"KISSING  LIKE  CRAZY" 

Waather  Predicting  agg  \ 

ASH 
TRAY 

Footsies  Actually 
Change  Color  and 
Forecast  Weather 
24  Hours  in  Advance 

ONLY  50C 

Heavy  kissing  Is 

going  on  under  the  big  sombrero,  but  all  YOU  see  Is  a 
pair  of  bare  footsies,  pink  panties,  and  shiny  trousers. 
BUT — Just  turn  It  upside  down  and  discover  what's 
going  on  underneath.  When  the  scientifically  treated 
footsies  turn  blue,  the  weather  will  be  bright;  If  pink, 
rain  or  snow  Is  ahead;  If  purple,  weather  will  change. 
Helps  plan  picnics,  parties,  tells  how  to  dress  and  plan 
ahead.  Gleaming,  colorful  Imported  ceramic. 

Satisfaction  Guaranteed  or  Money  Back — Available 
plain  (without  names  and  date)  for  only  50c.  However, 
for  only  10c  extra,  we'll  artistically  hand-letter  any  first 
names  of  couple  and  anniversary  date.  Each  Ashtray 
can  be  personalized  differently,  so  that  you  can  give  one 
away  as  a  gift.  Not  more  than  2  to  a  customer.  Add  15c 
to  each  Ashtray  for  postage  and  handling.  No  C.O.D.'s. 
Dobbs  Products  Co.,  900  W.  Lake  St.,  Dept  363,  Chicago  7,  HI. 


suffi"s  PSORIASIS 


MAKE  THE  ONE 

SPOT 

TEST 


I  SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 

D6RmOIL 


Prove  it  yourself  no  matter 
how  lone  you  have  suffered 
or  what  you  have  tried. 
Beautiful  book  on  paorl- 
asls    and     Oermoil    with 
amazing       true       photo- 
graphic proof  of  results 
sent  FREE,  Writefor.t. 


SEND    FOR 

GENEROUS 
TRIAL 
SIZE   ^ 


Don't     mistake     eczema 
for    the    stubborn,    ugly 
embarrassing     scaly     skil 
disease      Psoriasis.      Ap- 
ply   non-staining    Der- 
moil.     Thousands    do    foi 
acaly     spot*     on     body     < 
acalp.   Grateful   user*  oftei 
after     yearH     of     suffering 

report      the      scale*      have  ... 

gone,   the  red  patches  gradually  dl«-  ^^""SS"""^        w 

appeared  and   they  enjoyed  the  thrill  or  clear  akin 
SKotn.   Demioll   In  u«ed  by  many  doctors  and   ih  backed  by  a 

poHiuvi'  sgreement  to  y.iv<-  <i<-iinil-   benefit  in   2   weeks  or 

money  Ik  refunded  without  question.  Send  10c  stamps  or  coin) 
(or  i:'i,erouh  trial  I*. ill.  (o  make  our  ramOUl  "One  .S|»ot 
Test."  Testltforynuraelf.  ItenultH  may  mirprl»c  you.  Writeto- 
day  for  your  tent  twjttle.  Caution:  Uhc  only  aw  directed.  Print 
nameplalnly.    Oon'tdelay.    Sold  by  Liggett  and  Walgreen  Drug 

SJATOnlCS. 


stores   and    other    I 


ao>    392S.   Strathr 


•  uini'ii.  io  Mio -.  rn.iv  nrjirihe  V"U.  wri' 
ttle.  Caution:  Use  only  undirected.  ] 
'tdelay.    Sold  by  Liggett  and  Walgreen 

•  •ding  Druggists.  LAKE  LABORATOI 
oor  Station,   Dept.   9504,   Detroit  27,  I 


sSich. 


her  position,  Gisele  has  genuinely  domestic 
tastes.  She  loves  to  spend  her  evenings  at 
home  and  prefers  her  own  cooking  to  that 
of  almost  any  restaurant — a  preference, 
incidentally,  which  is  shared  by  all  who 
have  been  lucky  enough  to  have  eaten 
dinner  at  her  home.  Gisele  loves  to  cook. 
"I  can  relax  completely  when  I  cook  din- 
ner," she  explains.  "Sometimes  when  I'm 
all  wound  up  and  tense,  I  go  into  the 
kitchen  and  start  preparing  dinner.  Half 
an  hour  later,  I'm  usually  calm  and  relaxed 
again." 

She  has  a  whole  shelf  of  cookbooks 
which  she  reads  before  going  to  sleep,  the 
way   other   people   read   detective   stories. 

One  of  Gisele's  specialties  is  what  she 
calls  a  "compote,"  though  it  contains  little 
fruit.  It  takes  hours  to  prepare  and  days 
to  cook,  but  the  results — Gisele  declares 
with  unblushing  confidence — are  "sensa- 
tional." Some  of  the  ingredients  are  fresh 
mushrooms,  lots  of  bacon,  tomatoes,  green 
onions,  dates,  nuts,  assorted  green  vege- 
tables, herbs  and  a  touch  of  magic — though 
she  denies  that  it  can  only  be  made  at 
midnight  when  there's  a  full  moon!  She 
makes  it  in  huge  quantities,  but  not  too 
often,  since  it's  an  expensive  dish.  Bottled, 
the  "compote"  is  a  gift  which  is  treasured 
by  Gisele's  friends. 

Gisele  likes  to  spend  at  least  a  few 
evenings  each  week  at  home,  looking  at 
television  and  answering  her  fan  mail.  She 
gets  a  good  deal  of  the  latter  and  makes 
a  point  of  answering  it  promptly  and  in 
longhand.  She  also  likes  television — all  the 
popular  favorites,  as  well  as  crime  shows. 
In  order  to  be  able  to  look  at  television 
without  neglecting  her  mail,  she  has  moved 
her  desk  to  face  the  television  set  and  has 
developed  a  technique  whereby  she  can 
look  and  write  at  the  same  time.  "Occa- 
sionally,  when  I  become  too   absorbed,  I 


find  myself  writing  a  line  from  the  show 
I'm  listening  to,"  she  comments,  "but,  on 
the  whole,  it  works  well." 

Her  work  on  Your  Hit  Parade  keeps 
Gisele  pretty  well  occupied  during  most 
of  the  week.  There  are  conferences,  sev- 
eral days  of  rehearsals,  new  routines  and 
new  songs  to  learn.  In  addition,  she  does 
recordings,  gives  interviews  and  makes  ap- 
pearances on  lots  of  disc-jockey  shows. 
Last  summer  and  the  summer  before, 
when  the  show  was  off  the  air,  she  was  on 
tour  with  Jack  Benny  for  several  weeks, 
following  that  up  with  engagements  at 
hotels  and  supper  clubs.  She's  crazy  about 
Jack  and  his  wife,  Mary  Livingston,  and 
they  always  see  each  other  when  the 
Bennys  are  in  New  York  or  Gisele  is  in 
California. 

Gisele  has  many  good  friends  all  over 
the  country,  and  enough  close  ones  in 
New  York  to  keep  her  from  getting  lone- 
some. There  is  no  serious  romance  in  her 
life  at  this  time.  "I  suppose  I'll  want  to  get 
married  someday,"  she  says  frankly,  "but 
I  most  certainly  won't  do  it  just  for  the 
sake  of  getting  married.  I  like  my  way  of 
life.  I  like  what  I'm  doing.  I  could  be 
persuaded  to  give  it  up.  But  it  would 
take  a  lot  of  persuading." 

There's  a  quality  about  Gisele  which 
makes  one  feel  she'll  always  do  the  right 
thing  for  herself  as  well  as  for  others.  Per- 
haps the  nicest  thing  was  said  about  her 
by  her  old  friend  Bob  Shuttleworth:  "Gi- 
sele was  a  sweetheart  when  I  knew  her  nine 
or  ten  years  ago,  back  in  Toronto.  She 
was  struggling  then,  living  in  a  boarding- 
house  on  about  ten  bucks  a  week.  She's 
come  a  long  way  since  then.  She's  become 
popular,  successful,  is  making  a  lot  of 
money.  But  I'll  be  darned  if  I  can  see 
where  it  has  changed  her  in  any  way. 
She's  still  a  sweetheart.  She  always  will  be." 


Greater  Than  Glamour 


{Continued  from  page  37) 
couldn't  have  been  more  pleased  with  his 
guess.  She  has  never  minded  that  she  looks 
neither  theatrical  nor  especially  glamorous. 
She's  content  to  be  herself,  an  attractive 
woman  who  can  readily  create  the  illusion 
of  being  someone  quite  different  when  she 
steps  on  stage  or  before  a  microphone. 

"It  was  as  flattering  a  thing  as  he  could 
have  said  to  me,"  she  smiles,  "and  I  would 
not  for  the  world  have  spoiled  it  by  admit- 
ting I  was  an  actress — had  been  one  since 
I  was  sixteen — and  was  then  playing  on 
Broadway  with  Jane  Cowl  in  'First  Lady,' 
doing  that  wonderful  part  of  a  clubwoman. 
Later,  when  I  mentioned  the  encounter  to 
some  friends,  they  said  I  should  have  con- 
fessed who  I  was,  but  I  felt  he  would  have 
been  terribly  disappointed  to  discover  I 
was  in  the  theater.  I  am  sure  he  thought 
all  actresses  were  glamour  girls." 

It  wasn't  the  first  time  a  stranger  had 
guessed  Miss  Wilson  to  be  something  other 
than  what  she  is — a  housewife  perhaps 
(and  she  finds  that  guess  quite  a  compli- 
ment, too) .  There  was  the  time,  for  in- 
stance, when  she  was  doing  the  lead,  on 
tour,  in  "You  Can't  Take  It  with  You," 
and  she  went  to  a  beauty  parlor  in  the  city 
where  they  were  currently  playing. 

"I  had  to  explain  who  I  was  to  restrain 
the  operator  from  wanting  to  set  my  hair 
in  some  fancy  way  unsuited  to  my  role. 
'Oh,  are  you  an  actress?'  the  girl  said,  her 
disillusionment  coming  right  at  me  in  her 
voice  and  startled  expression.  I  hope 
someone  in  my  profession  came  along  la- 
ter, who  looked  more  like  what  she  pic- 
tured an  actress  should  be,  to  restore  her 
faith!" 

It's  true  that,  if  you  are  expecting  to 
meet  a  performer  who  is  "on"  all  the  time 


— even  when  she  is  "off  stage" — Ethel  Wil- 
son won't  impress  you,  although  she  is 
pretty  and  rather  strikingly  tall  (5'8"),  has 
lovely  brown  eyes  and  soft  brown  hair 
(graying  a  little  now  as  it  falls  away  from 
a  youthful  face).  She  dresses  simply  but 
with  chic,  mostly  in  suits  and  casual 
clothes,  and  wears  small  hats  without 
much  adornment.  Only  when  you  listen  to 
her  fine  voice  would  you  get  a  hint  of  her 
profession,  perhaps,  and  only  then  if  your 
ear  is  attuned  to  a  certain  quality  in  a 
voice  which  stamps  its  possessor  either  as 
a  trained  singer  or  actress — or  both,  as  in 
Ethel  Wilson's  own  case. 

That  voice  usually  fools  people  until 
they  meet  her  in  person.  Because  of  its 
fullness  and  resonance,  they  expect  to  find 
a  large  woman  instead  of  a  rather  slender 
one.  The  man  who  mistook  her  for  a 
schoolteacher,  when  she  was  playing  in 
"First  Lady,"  would  probably  never  have 
recognized  her  on  the  stage,  anyhow,  be- 
cause she  had  to  wear  terrific  pads  across 
her  bosom  to  look  like  the  dowager-type 
female  she  played. 

She  is  apt  sometimes  to  wonder  whether 
her  life  might  have  been  quite  different  if 
she  had  looked  more  like  an  actress — al- 
though she  can't  imagine  that  it  could  have 
been  any  happier  or  more  satisfying!  Quite 
a  time  after  she  was  married,  she  asked 
King  Calder — the  fine  actor  who  has  been 
her  husband  for  more  than  twenty  years — 
how  he  happened  to  fall  in  love  with  a  girl 
who  was  so  "average,"  when  in  the  course 
of  his  own  career  he  had  met  a  long  pro- 
cession of  glamour  ladies  of  the  theater. 

"Just  when  did  you  first  decide  you 
were  in  love  with  me?"  she  prodded. 

King  then  reminded  her  of  a  night  when 
they  were  in  the  same  stock  company  in 


• 

•  PHOTOPLAY  Dept.  WG-355 

•  205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

m  Send  me   postpaid  a  copy  of  PHOTO- 

J  PLAY  ANNUAL  1955.  I  enclose  50c. 
• 

•  Name 

—  Please  Print 

•  Address 

• 

•  City State 


New!  ExcitinglGlamorous! 

This  Gorgeous  Yearbook  Is  Really 
Hollywood  In  Review 

It's  better  than  ever  I  It  contains  more  news  and  pictures 
about  all  the  stars  of  Hollywood  than  ever  before.  Yes,  the 
exciting,  new  1955  edition  of  Photoplay  Annual  is 
sensational.  It's  a  treasure-mine  of  information  about  the 
stars  ...  a  real  Who's  Who  in  Hollywood.  This  colorful 
and  glamorous  yearbook  is  THE  book-of-the-year — as  far 
as  Hollywood  is  concerned.  Get  your  copy  of  this  prize 
book  before  they  are  all  snatched  up.  Here  is  what  you  get 
in  this  great  yearbook: 

NEWS  EVENTS  OF  THE  YEAR— 20  exciting  pages  In 
pictures  and  text  covering  the  month-by-month  weddings — 
separations — divorces — births— awards — scoops. 

PERSONALITIES  OF  THE  YEAR— Stories  and  pictures 
of  Bobert  Wagner  •  Janet  Leigh,  Tony  Curtis  •  Debbie 
Reynolds  •  Hock  Hudson  •  Marilyn  Monroe  •  Guy  Madi- 
son  •   Audrey  Hepburn  •   Audie  Murphy. 

LOVE  SCENES — Beautiful  full-page  scenes  of  the  stars 
from  ten  top  shows  of  the  year. 

DANCERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Action  pictures  and  bio- 
graphical sketches  of  Cyd  Charisse  •  Vera-BUen  •  The 
Champions  •  Taina  Elg  •  Leslie  Caron  •  Mitzi  Gaynor. 

PERFORMERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Here  you  get  portraits 
as  well  as  action  shots  from  their  big  pictures,  plus  the 
autographs  of  Marlon  Brando  •  June  Allyson  •  Van  Johnson 

•  Judy  Garland  •  Bobert  Mitchum  •  Gary  Cooper  • 
Burt  Lancaster  •  Ava  Gardner. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES— Beautiful  pictures,  plus  thumb- 
nail sketches  of  Alan  Ladd  •  Susan  Hayward  •  Dean 
Martin  •  Jerry  Lewis  •  Jeanne  Crain  •  William  Holden 

•  Eleanor  Parker  •  Clark  Gable  •  Betty  Grable  •  Victor 
Mature  •  Virginia  Mayo  •  Bobert  Taylor  •  Barbara 
Stanwyck  •  Richard  Wldmark  •  John  Wayne. 

SONGSTERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Doris  Day  •  Howard  Keel 

•  Jane  Powell  •  Bing  Crosby  •  Danny  Kaye  •  Rosemary 
Clooney  •   Frank  Sinatra. 

PORTRAIT  GALLERY— Full-page  pictures  of  Esther 
Williams  •  Elizabeth  Taylor  •  Montgomery  Clift  •  Jeff 
Chandler  •  Stewart  Granger  and  Jean  Simmons  •  Ann 
Blyih  •  Charlton  Heston  •  Piper  Laurie  •  Scott  Brady  • 
Jane  Bussell  •  John  Derek. 

ASCENDING  STARS — These  are  the  names  that  are 
making  news.  Some  have  just  flashed  into  sight — some  now 
shine  with  an  extra  radiance — Terry  Moore  •  George 
Nader  •  Edmund  Purdom  •  Jack  Lemmon  •  Richard  Bur- 
ton •  Barbara  Rush  •  Susan  Cabot  •  Jeff  Richards  • 
Steve  Forrest  •  Doe  Avedon  •  Audrey  Dalton  •  Race 
Gentry  •  Buss  Tamblyn  •  Sarita  Montiel  •  Elaine  Stew- 
art •  Jeffrey  Hunter  •  EIroy  Hirsch  •  Rhonda  Fleming  • 
Pat  Crowley  •  Ben  Cooper  •  Lori  Nelson  •  Robert  Stack  • 
Julia  Adams  •   Suzan  Ball  •  Maria  English. 

ONLY  50*— WHILE  THEY  LAST 

This  sensational  Yearbook  sells  out  practically  as  soon  as 
it  is  put  on  sale.  Don't  be  disappointed  this  year — mail 
coupon  above  with   50^ — today! 


Cleveland,  and  the  cast  had  gathered  in 
one  of  the  hotel  rooms  after  a  rehearsal. 
"You  had  your  ukulele  with  you,  and  were 
strumming  it,"  he  said.  "You  were  dressed 
in  something  simple  you  had  worn  to  re- 
hearsal, and  you  probably  didn't  have  any 
make-up  on,  and  were  a  little  tired  and 
not  trying  to  create  an  impression  on  any- 
one. Yet,  when  you  began  to  sing  quietly 
to  your  own  accompaniment,  I  thought: 
There  is  the  girl  I  want  to  marry.  And  I 
never  changed  my  mind  about  that." 

Florence  Ethel  Wilson — as  she  was 
christened,  although  always  called  Ethel — 
had  never  dreamed  of  being  an  actress,  as 
so  many  girls  do.  She  had  shown  great 
promise  as  a  singer,  and  her  mother  had 
been  able  to  enter  her  in  the  Peabody 
Conservatory  in  Baltimore,  at  fourteen — 
two  years  before  the  age  at  which  most 
pupils  are  accepted.  Baltimore  was  not  far 
from  the  Wilson  farm  in  Howard  County, 
Maryland,  where  Ethel's  father  was  a 
country  judge.  Life  was  lovely  for  "Judge 
Wilson's  daughters,"  as  Ethel  and  her  sis- 
ters were  known.  "We  were  only  in  fairly 
comfortable  circumstances,  but  we  all  rode 
horses  and  were  invited  to  all  the  parties 
and  had  everything  we  needed,  including  a 
good  home,  and  I  suppose  I  thought  we 
were  rich.  We  looked  forward  to  our  lives 
going  on  in  the  same  way  until  we  married 
and  had  homes  of  our  own.  My  grand- 
mother was  making  each  of  us  a  patch- 
work quilt  for  our  'hope  chests' — all  the 
girls  in  our  community  had  these  collec- 
tions of  nice  things  started  for  future 
homes.  In  my  mind's  eye,  I  can  see  my 
grandmother  sewing  out  on  our  big  porch, 
during  the  lazy  summer  afternoons.  In  the 
winter,  we  girls  used  to  help  make  the  lit- 
tle patches  that  Grandmother  later  put  to- 
gether into  such  beautiful  designs. 

"Then,  when  I  was  sixteen,  my  mother 
passed  on — and  overnight  my  whole  world 
changed.  Nothing  had  prepared  me  for 
this.  When  my  father  later  re-married,  I 
went  to  live  with  an  aunt.  It  was  the  end 
of  the  first  chapter  of  my  life,  and  the  be- 
ginning of  my  growing  up  to  some  of  the 
harsh  realities  of  living." 

Jithel  was  not  prepared  to  earn  a  liveli- 
hood, but  felt  she  should  become  self- 
supporting  as  quickly  as  possible  and  not 
be  a  burden  to  anyone.  She  was  the  Wil- 
son daughter  who  had  always  recited  and 
had  often  been  told  she  should  become  an 
actress,  and  at  this  point  someone  sug- 
gested to  her  that  this  was  the  time  to 
start.  There  was  no  great  urge  in  her  .for 
the  theater,  but  it  did  seem  like  something 
she  might  do.  So,  with  courage  born  of 
complete  ignorance  of  all  the  obstacles 
which  might  stand  in  her  way,  she  asked 
the  manager  of  a  stock  company  playing 
Baltimore  if  he  would  hire  her.  He  did,  at 
fifteen  dollars  a  week,  because  he  hap- 
pened at  that  moment  to  need  someone 
just  like  her. 

Her  trained  voice  and  stage  presence 
were  a  great  help,  and  the  variety  of  roles 
she  played  turned  her  into  an  actress  of 
some  experience  in  a  rather  short  time. 
Fired  by  the  desire  to  conquer  Broadway, 
she  decided  she  was  ready  to  go  to  New 
York.  Shortly  after  she  arrived,  she  met  a 
Baltimore  friend,  Minna  Gombell,  already 
well  known  to  theater-goers  and  later  to 
movie-goers.  She  confessed  to  Minna  that 
her  funds  were  extremely  limited,  and  was 
advised  to  see  a  producer  who  was  casting 
for  a  road  company.  She  had  only  one 
good  outfit,  a  tailored  navy  blue  suit  which 
she  wore  only  for  such  occasions,  and  so 
she  dressed  herself  up  in  this  staple  of  her 
wardrobe  and  went  to  see  the  great  man. 
She  couldn't  have  been  more  surprised 
when  he  hired  her  at  the  (to  her)  unheard- 
of  sum  of  $65  a  week,  and  she  could  hardly 
get  to  a  telegraph  office  fast  enough  to  re- 


Gentle 

Ex-Lax  Helps 

YOU  TOWARD 

Your  Normal 
Regularity 


TONIGHT-Whenyou    IN  THE  MORNING- 

need  a  laxative  — take  You'll  enjoy  the  closest 
chocolated  Ex-Lax,  thing  to  natural  action. 
America's  best -tasting  No  discomfort  or  upset, 
laxative.  It  won't  You'll  soon  feel  like 
disturb  your  sleep.  '  yourself  again! 

NEXT  DAY— EX-LAX  continues  to  help  you  toward 
your  normal  regularity.  You  hardly  ever  have  to 
take  Ex-Lax  again  the  next  night! 

Buy  The  New  65*  Size  — Save  As  Much  As  37e 

Also  available  in  304  and  124  sizes 

EX-LAX 

THE  CHOCOLATED  LAXATIVE 


MORE  PEOPLE  USE  EX-LAX  THAN  ANY  OTHER  LAXAT 


MlGH  SCH00l> 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
ing covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
instructors ;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  fori 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-22 
2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois. 


MY  FREE  KIT 

puts  you  in  a  fine  business  selling  maga- 
zine subscriptions  in  your  neighborhood. 
It's  easy  to  do.  No  experience  necessary. 
You  don't  spend  a  penny  of  your  money 
now  or  ever.  We  supply  everything  you 
need  FREE.  Act  now  and  you'll  be  earn- 
ing extra  dollars  regularly.  Rush  name 
and  address  for  FREE  money-making  in- 
formation: Sales  Agents,  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
205   E.   42   Street,    New  York   17,    N.   Y. 


WRITE:  BREVITYPE  INSTITUTE,  SAN  DIEGO,  CALIF.,  DEPT.1715 

LIARN  THE  WORLD'S  SIMPLEST, 
SPEEDIEST  SHORTHAND   NOW 

FREE— please  send  me  typical  lessons,  details  on  Brevitype—  world's 
Simplest,  speediest  shorthand— first  machine  shorthand  to  eliminate  coding. 
Tell  me  how  I  learn  Brevitype  in  '/,  the  time  through  your  personally  guided 
home-study  course.  Show  me  how  switching  to  Brevitype.  as  hundreds  have, 
prepares  me  for  security  as  a  stenographer,  secretary,  court  or  hearing 
reporter  here,  and  abroad,  in  business  or  Civil  Service  — helps  me  increase 
my  salary  50%  to  100?;   Include  costs  and  budget  plans. 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
KBfG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

i  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.  No  age  limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


Post  Graduate  Hospital 
School   of   Nursing 
9D35B  Auditorium   Bldg. 
Chicago   5,   Illinois 


Name. 


Address 

City State. 


HARD  OF  HEARING 

TV -Radio  programs  enjoyed  without  annoying  others. 
Easily  attached  to  set  speaker.  Complete  attachment  with 
instructions.  $14.95.  Details  free.  T  &  S  Enterprises.  Inc.. 
Box  271,   Spartanburg,  S.  C. 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


i 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREK 
BOOK  and  No-Cost -For-Trial-plan. 
B.   G.   VISCOSE   COMPANY 

140   N.   Dearborn  Street,   Chicago  2.   Illinois 


MAKE  MONEY  with5 
Simple  CARTOONS; 


A  book  everyone  who  likes  to  draw 
should  have.  It  is  free;  no 

obligation.  Simply  address 


FREE 
BOOK 


•  ARTOONISTS'   EXCHANGE 
Dept.   593  Pleasant  Hill. 


Ohio 


WANTED 

Men  &  Women  Everywhere  who  have  a  story 
to  tell.  No  writing  experience  necessary — just 
use  your  own  words.  Vast  TV  market  crying 
lor  new  story  situations.  Yours  can  net  you 
$500  or  more.  Get  the  Facts. 

TV  WRITERS  GUILD 

2875C  Glendale  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  39,  Calif. 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 


Size  8  x  lO  Inches 


67 


on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  fall  length  or  bust 
form,  gToapi  ,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  jrroup  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  yoor  enlargement. 

SendNoMoney  3tor$l5° 

Jnst  mail  photo,  nejrati 
ehot  (any  size)  and  r< 

guaranteed  fadeless, on 

portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main,  Dept.  35-C,  Princeton,  Illinois 


'  snap' 

a  yonr  enlargement, 
utiful  double-weight 


Relief  in  ALL 


miseries 


"""COLD 


^Tabcin 


B£TM  THAN  EV[R 


100 


SNEEZES*  WATERY  EYES 

•  FEVERISH  FEELING* 

HEADACHE  •   RUNNING 

NOSE  •  GENERAL  ACHES 

•   THROAT   IRRITATIONS 

•    COUGHING    • 


MILES  LABORATORIES.  INC  ,  Elkhart.  Indian. 


lay  the  news  home.  "I  thought  I  must  be 
really  good  to  command  a  salary  like  that," 
she  says. 

Things  were  rosy  enough  for  a  while, 
the  whole  experience  being  a  pretty  ex- 
citing thing  for  a  little  girl  from  the  farm 
country  of  Maryland.  Even  long  after, 
when  there  were  the  dozens  of  up  seasons 
and  down  seasons,  she  still  felt  a  little  like 
a  princess  in  a  fairy  tale.  She  played  with 
road  companies  and  stock  companies,  and 
she  had  important  roles  with  important 
stars  in  important  Broadway  productions, 
always  learning,  always  loving  her  life,  al- 
though she  had  never  intended  it  to  turn 
in  this  direction. 

Oddly  enough,  although  King  Calder 
had  been  born  in  Baltimore,  very  close  to 
Ethel's  birthplace — and  they  had  gone  to 
the  same  school — they  had  hardly  known 
each  other.  He  had  been  stagestruck  for  a 
long  time,  however,  when  Ethel  went  back 
to  Baltimore  in  a  play  called  "Fair  and 
Warmer,"  and  he  came  backstage  after  a 
performance  to  see  her.  Then  she  didn't 
see  him  again  for  a  number  of  years. 

One  season,  when  she  was  doing  leads 
in  Cleveland  with  one  of  the  best  stock 
companies  in  the  country,  the  manager 
came  to  her  and  said  he  was  delighted  they 
were  going  to  have  one  of  the  most  sought- 
after  leading  men,  King  Calder.  "I  had  not 
seen  him  for  a  long  time  and  wasn't  aware 
of  his  success  as  an  actor,  and  I  wondered 
why  in  the  world  he  had  been  picked,"  she 
says.  "I  was  glad  to  see  him  again,  of 
course,  and  when  he  asked  me  to  have 
dinner  and  go  dancing  after  the  theater 
one  night,  I  went.  We  both  have  always 
liked  to  dance,  and  we  found  we  liked  be- 
ing together,  and  after  a  while  he  asked 
me  to  marry  him.  Then  the  season  ended 
and  he  went  into  another  play,  in  New 
York,  and  then  on  tour,  and  I  went  my 
separate  way  on  tour,  so  there  was  a  long 
engagement  before  we  could  be  married." 

That  first  Christmas  of  their  engagement, 
King  told  Ethel  he  was  bringing  her  a 
present  he  hoped  she  would  like  very 
much,  and  she  naturally  supposed  it  was 
her  ring.  It  took  her  a  while  to  get  over 
the  first  let-down  of  seeing  a  big  package 
and  then  slowly  unwrapping  the  fine  Seth 
Thomas  clock  which  now  stands  on  a  shelf 
in  the  corner  of  their  living  room.  King 
was  already  thinking  in  terms  of  the  home 
they  both  wanted  so  much,  the  home  they 
would  have  together,  and. the  lovely  things 
he  would  buy  for  it. 

"Now,  all  that  seems  so  much  more  im-. 
portant  to  me  than  any  ring  could  have 


been,"  Ethel  admits,  "but  I  doubt  that, 
until  he  reads  what  is  being  written  now, 
King  has  ever  known  how  disappointed  I 
was  at  the  time!" 

Almost  two  years  later  they  were  mar- 
ried, in  New  York,  in  the  Little  Church 
around  the  Corner.  There  were  still  many 
separations,  though  Ethel  gave  up  good 
parts  to  go  touring  with  King  and  he  took 
minor  roles,  when  he  might  have  had 
stellar  ones,  to  be  with  her.  Finally,  after 
a  long  and  exhausting  tour  in  "My  Sister 
Eileen,"  Ethel  decided  she  had  had  enough 
of  separation — and  she  turned  to  radio, 
which  would  anchor  her  in  New  York  even 
if  King  sometimes  had  to  go  on  the  road. 
It  would  give  them  a  permanent  home. 

That  was  fourteen  years  ago,  and  she 
has  been  a  sought-after  radio  actress  ever 
since.  King  has  played  many  stage  roles 
and  has  made  a  place  for  himself,  too,  in 
radio  and  on  television,  notably  in  his  two 
years  on  the  Martin  Kane  program.  For 
Ethel,  radio  was  very  difficult  at  first,  be- 
cause she  had  terrific  mike-fright  and  often 
wondered  if  the  words  would  come  out. 
She  used  to  hope,  even  after  she  made  her 
decision  about  no  more  travel,  that  some- 
one would  tempt  her  with  a  part  in  the 
theater  that  she  simply  couldn't  refuse,  in- 
stead of  the  repeated  calls  she  got  for  ra- 
dio. Gradually,  she  gained  confidence  and, 
before  long,  was  doing  as  many  as  sixteen 
or  seventeen  radio  programs  a  week — and 
loving  it. 

You  may  remember  her  as  Aunt  Harriet, 
in  The  Aldrich  Family,  a  role  she  did  for 
eleven  years  on  radio  and  then  carried 
over  into  television  for  two  years,  until  a 
time  conflict  developed  with  some  of  her 
other  work.  She  has  worked  for  a  long 
time  on  Backstage  Wife,  and  her  voice  is 
familiar  to  listeners  of  When  A  Girl  Mar- 
ries, Holiday  Hotel,  My  True  Story,  Whis- 
pering Streets,  Mr.  Keen — and  more — a  list 
too  long  for  her  to  remember  all  of  it.  She 
considers  the  role  of  Mrs.  Summers,  on 
Young  Widder  Brown,  one  of  her  most 
challenging. 

"This  woman's  whole  character  runs 
counter  to  mine  and  to  all  my  own  feelings 
toward  other  people,"  she  says.  "I,  who 
love  people  in  general,  am  now  this  de- 
luded and  selfish  woman  who  doesn't  even 
have  any  real  love  for  her  own  daughter.  I 
know  there  are  such  women,  and  I  know 
the  havoc  they  can  cause,  and  because  she 
is  such  a  believable  person  I  find  her  ex- 
tremely interesting  to  portray." 

So  unlike  are  these  two  that  one  of  the 
sponsors  was  heard  to  remark  that  "Any- 


Fear  made  my  life 
a  nightmare! 

Agonizing  human  problems!  Terrifying  emotional  conflicts! 
Raging  passions!  These  are  the  soul-stirring  subjects  you 
hear  on  radio's  "My  True  Story."  Each  episode  pulses  with 
life  itself — because  each  one  is  a  real-life  drama  taken 
right  from  the  files  of  "True  Story  Magazine".  The  people 
involved  could  easily  be  your  friends  .  .  .  your  neighbors 
.  .  .  your  own  family.  And  the  gripping  problems  they 
have  to  solve  might  well  be  the  ones  you're  facing.  So 
be   sure   to   listen. 


TUNE  IN 


kk 


MY  TRUE  STORY" 

AMERICAN  BROADCASTING  STATIONS 


When   their   parents   parted   from    each   other   in    hatred.   It   was    up   to   the   children    to    choose    be- 
tween   them.    Read    "ORPHANS    OF    DIVORCE"    in    March    TRUE    STORY    MAGAZINE    at   newsstands    now. 


He  worshipped  her  and 
did  everything  possible  to 
make  her  forget  the  ugly 
beginning  of  their  mar- 
riage. But  every  time  he 
touched  her,  she  remem- 
bered  she   had   become   a 

bride 

by 

force 

Read  this  powerful  and 
touching  story  in  MARCH 

TRUE  STORY 

The  Largest-Selling  Magazine 
of  its  Kind 


At  Newsstands  Now 


I  !♦'■ 

JUL  JR    «- 


e«HO£  TO  1MAL 
MM8IEP  ICVE 


And  you'll  never  forget — 

ORPHANS  OF  DIVORCE— the 

true  story  of  a  child  who  loves 
both  parents  and  must  choose 
between  them. 

HE  HAD  TO  BE  BOSS— one 
wife's  rebellion  against  a  hus- 
band who  played  tyrant. 

Also — Full  Details  on  the 
$40,000.00  (Cash)  Prize- Win- 
ning Story  Contest. 

All  this  and  more  in  MARCH 

TRUE  STORY 


one  with  as  sweet  a  nature  as  Ethel  Wil- 
son has,  shouldn't  be  asked  to  play  a 
woman  like  Mrs.  Summers."  This  tickled 
her  very.  much.  "Maybe  some  day  I  can 
'reform'  her  and  make  her  a  little  kinder," 
she  says. 

The  Calders  live  in  an  apartment  build- 
ing overlooking  the  Hudson  River  and  the 
New  Jersey  Palisades  on  the  far  shore.  It 
has  been  their  home  now  for  some  years, 
and  a  visitor's  first  impression  is  of  a 
place  that  is  well  loved  and  well  lived  in. 
Ethel's  grand  piano  stands  in  a  corner  of 
the  living  room — a  room  in  soft  greens, 
around  which  are  distributed  many  of  the 
things  King  bought  for  their  future  home, 
when  they  were  still  engaged,  and  many 
treasures  from  his  own  childhood  home. 

The  handsome  hand-made  red  leather 
chairs  are  from  the  library  of  King's 
grandfather.  The  silver  service  in  the 
little  dining  room  came  from  his  home 
also.  Ethel  has  a  cherished  plate  hanging 
on  the  wall,  picturing  the  church  in  Mary- 
land where  she  was  christened.  There  is 
a  china  dog  who  has  sat  patient  and 
immobile  for  more  than  seventy-five  years, 
a  burnished  old  brass  teapot  that  came 
from  Scotland,  dishes  which  were  wedding 
presents  to  King's  parents,  a  turkey  plat- 
ter he  had  seen  on  every  holiday  table 
during  his  years  of  growing  up. 

come  of  the  more  modern  touches  in 
the  apartment  are  strictly  King  Calder, 
circa  1954-1955.  They  consist  of  such 
things  as  a  gay  red-and-white  paint  job  in 
the  kitchen  and  dining  room.  Ethel  has 
provided  some  touches,  too — in  the  stun- 
ning deep  fuchsia  drapes  and  spreads  in 
their  bedroom,  in  slipcovers  and  curtains. 
King  built  the  big  fieldstone  fireplace  in 
what  they  call  their  "shack"  facing  the 
ocean  on  Long  Island,  a  summer  retreat 
from  New  York  where  they  putter  around 
the  house  and  yard  in  old  clothes  and 
for<?et  they  are  actors. 

Ethel  seizes  every  chance  to  putter 
around  the  apartment,  too,  especially  the 
kitchen.  King  thinks  nothing  he  eats 
away  from  home  ever  tastes  as  good  as 
her  cooking,  and  when  she  has  time  she 
loves  to  plan  some  special  dish  and  serve 
it  to   a   King's   taste! 

"At  heart,  I  suppose  I  am  a  home  woman 
who  got  side-tracked  into  a  career,"  she 
says.  "Just  a  girl  from  a  farm  home.  I 
still  laugh  about  something  that  happened 
to  me  quite  a  long  time  ago,  when  I  was 
still  on  the  stage.  We  were  finishing  a 
tour  in  San  Francisco  and  I  had  been 
asked  to  address  a  women's  club,  so  I 
bought  what  I  hoped  was  a  terrifically 
smart  hat  and  dress  for  that  occasion. 
Back  m  New  York,  I  wore  the  same 
outfit  to  an  audition  for  a  role  in  a  com- 
mercial film,  adding  a  little  fur  piece  which 
I  believed  would  complete  the  impression 
of  being  a  chic  woman  of  the  world. 

"The  room  was  filled  with  actresses  when 
I  arrived.  A  man  emerged  from  an  inside 
office,  looked  around  a  moment  and, 
without  hesitation,  said,  'Ladies,  I  am  not 
going  to  make  you  wait  to  be  interviewed, 
because  I  know  now  which  of  you  I  want 
for  the  part.'  He  motioned  to  me.  Well,  I 
thought,  here  is  what  an  outfit  like  this 
can  do  to  open  doors.  When  I  found  that 
the  part  was  that  of  a  farmer's  wife,  I  was 
so  amused  that  I  decided,  once  and  for 
all  time,  that  I  must  be  stamped  with  my 
simple  background  and  I  might  just  as  well 
give  up  any  glamour  aspirations,  if  I  ever 
had   any!" 

Give  up  glamour?  She  has  it,  and  she 
can't.  In  a  long  and  happy  marriage.  In 
a  career  that  is  still  going  strong.  In  at- 
tractive appearance  and  gracious  manner, 
in  kindness  and  sincerity.  Are  not  these 
things  glamorous,  in  the  very  best  sense 
of  that  over-used  word? 


J5*2Lli 


BELLAS  HESS 
<  Spring  &  Summer  Catalog 
,  offers  the  newest  styles 
'  for  You  and  Your  Family 
1  — at  the  lowest  prices 
]  anywhere! 

Join  the  millions  of  families  who 
shop  and  save  by  mail  from 
this  color-filled  catalog.  Select 
from  thousands  of  new  styles 
and  finest  home  items  ...  all 
priced  at  America's  greatest 
savings    and    all    absolutely 

guaranteed  .  .  .  your  money  back  if  you  are  not  pleased. 

SAVE  MONEY-TIME  1  ACT  NOW  I  You've  nothing  to  pay 

— no  obligation  to  buy.  To  get  your  catalog  just  send  your 

name  and  address  to: 

NATIONAL    BELLAS    HESS 

247-33 Bellas  Hett  Bldg.,  Karnot  City, Mo. 

WATCHES  WANTED! 

ANY  CONDITION.  Highest  cash 
prices  paid  promptly.  Also  broken 
jewelry,  spectacles,  dental  gold, 
diamonds,  silver.  Send  articles 
today.    Satisfaction    guaranteed. 


TPKEN    PHOTOS 


Luxurious,  satin  finish  Wallet 
Size . . . 2%  x3'/< . . .  STUDIO  Quality 
$(fl    MONEY  BACK 
for     |      GUARANTEE 

GIVE  TO  FRIENDS,  CLASSMATES,  RELATIVES.    IKE 
FOR  COLLEGE,  EMPLOYMENT,  PASSPORT  APPLI- 
CATIONS.  SEND  MONEY  AND  PHOTO  TO 
WALLET  PHOTOS,  BOX    D17-35        HILLSIDE,  N.  1> 

FREE-TO  MEN  WHO 
WEIGH  200  LBS.  OR  MORE 

New  Burns  Martin  Spring  Catalog  shows  Ameri- 
ca's biggest  stock  of  large-size  clothing — sizes  44 
to  72.  First  quality  apparel,  designed  to  make  you 
look  slimmer  and  trimmer.  Money-back  guarantee 
with  every  item.  Send  tor  FREE  Catalog,  NOW! 

BURNS  MARTIN  °*i£Z,\"*Zr"' 


LOWE'S 


CORNS 

REMOVED  BY 

Your  money  refunded 
if  not  satisfied.  The  Moss 
Company,  Rochester,  N.Y. 


also  Calluses.  Quick, 
easy,  and  economical . 
Just  rub  on.  Jars,  35  ± 
and  60  f.  Buy  Mosco 
at  your  druggist. 

MOSCO 


SCALY 


SAam) 

BLEMISHES 


temally  caused  skin  blemishes.  Try  amazing  TROP1CANA 
OINTMENT  for  your  stubborn  skin  condition.  Provent 
soothing  results. 

TDIAI  ACCEDi  Send  25c  for  generous  size  postpaid. 
I  hi  ML.  UrrCll.  Large  jar  at  druggists  only  $1-00  or 
satisfaction  guaranteed.  TROPICANA,  P.O.  Box  32,  Kokomo, 
Indiana. 


HAIR  ON  FACE? 


Suick  as  a  wink,  superfluous  hair  eliminated.  Com- 
.  etely  removes  all  hair  from  FACE,  arms  and  legs. 
Checks  future  growth.  Leaves  the  skin  petal-smooth. 


Was  $5.00E — "now  only  $1.10 

Like  magic,  Milady's  skin  becomes  adorable.  For  the 
finest  down  or  the  heaviest  growth.  Seems  miraculous, 
but  our  39  years  experience  proves  it  is  the  scientifically         T 
correct  way.  Odorless.  Safe.  Harmless.  Simple  to  apply.  v 

Superior  to  ordinary  hair  removers.  For  15  years  Z/P 
Epilatorwas  J5.00.  NOW  ONLYil.10.  Same  superior         R 
formula,  same  size.  Good  stores  or  by  mail  $1.10  or 

LC.O.D.  No  Fed.  tax.  Above  guaranteed,  money-back.  I 
JQRDEAU  INC.  Box  C-19  SOUTH  ORANGE.  N.  i.A 

101 


PLAY  EDITOR 

Check  your  favorites  and  mail  us  your  answers  today 

TV  Radio  Mirror  is  your  magazine.  Here's  your  chance  to  play  editor  by  answering  the  following  ques- 
tionnaire which  will  tell  us  what  you  want  published.  Mail  your  answers  to  TV  Radio  Mirror  READER 
SURVEY,  Box  1686,  Grand  Central  Station,  New  York  17,  New  York.  You  don't  have  to  give  us  your  name. 


FIRST  ABOUT  YOU: 

Age Male Female    Married 

Own  a  radio:  Yes No Own  a  TV  set:  Yes No. 

Which  would  you  prefer   (check  one  only):  Continuation  of  program  listings. 

OR :  One  more  story,  in  place  of  program  listings . 


Number  of  children 


Check     which      of     the  followi 
dramas  you   listen  to: 

Always 

Rosemary □ 

Wendy    Warren □ 

The   Romance  Of 

Helen  Trent □ 

Our  Gal  Sunday □ 

Whispering  Streets □ 

Modern    Romances □ 

Ever   Since    Eve  ........  □ 

My  True  Story □ 

When  A  Girl   Marries.  .  □ 

The   Road  Of  Life □ 

Ma  Perkins □ 

Young   Dr.   Malone 

The  Guiding   Light □ 

The  Second   Mrs.   Burton  □ 

Perry    Mason □ 

This  Is   Nora   Drake.  ...  □ 

The   Brighter  Day □ 

Hilltop  House □ 

Aunt   Jenny [J 

Pepper  Young's   Family.  □ 

The   Right  To  Happiness  □ 

Backstage    Wife □ 

Stella    Dallas fj 

Young   Widder    Brown    .  fj 

The  Woman    In    My 

House [J 

Just    Plain    Bill □ 

Lorenzo  Jones Q] 

The   Doctor's  Wife □ 


ng      daytime 
Occasionally 

a 
p 

a 

D 

a 
d 
a 

D 

a 
□ 
a 
□ 
□ 
b 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
□ 
□ 
a 

a 
a 
a 
a 


Other  favorite   daytime   dramas: 


Check  the   daytime    programs  you   listen  to 
or  watch: 

Always    Occasionally 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time.     .  D  □ 

Break  The  Bank □  □ 

Breakfast   Club □  □ 

The  Morning  Show □  □ 

Oueen  For  A  Day □  □ 

Welcome  Travelers □  □ 

Valiant  Lady □  □ 

Strike    It    Rich □  □ 

Bob  Crosby  Show □  □ 

Man  On  The  Farm □  □ 

Galen  Drake □  □ 

Linkletter's   House    Party  □  □ 

Hawkins    Falls □  fj 

Robert  0-  Lewis  Show.  .  □  □ 

Portia    Faces    Life □  □ 

Betty  White   Show □  □ 

The  Phrase  That  Pays.  .  .  □  [J 

The    Big    Payoff D  □ 

Garry    Moore   Show.  .  .  .  □  fj 

Love  Of  Life □  [J 

Search    For  Tomorrow..  □ 

Today \J  D 

Ding   Dong    School □  [J 

First  Love □  □ 

Pinky    Lee    Show □  □ 

Concerning   Miss 

Marlowe fj  |"l 

The  Secret  Storm Q  D 

On  Your  Account fj 

Make  Up  Your  Mind.  .  .  □  D 

Tom    Moore fj  |"J 

The    Golden   Windows..  [J  [-] 

Other  favorite   daytime  shows: 


Which  of  the  following  night-time  programs 
do  you  listen  to  or  watch: 

Always 

Jackie    Gleason    Show.  .  □ 

Our  Miss  Brooks □ 

Jack    Benny □ 

Toast  Of  The  Town ....  □ 

Milton   Berle □ 

My    Little    Margie □ 

Ray  Bolger □ 

Talent    Scouts fj 

I    Love   Lucy fj] 

This  Is  Your  Life □ 

Red  Skelton □ 


a 


a 
a 
□ 

a 
a 


People   Are    Funny.  . 

Ray    Milland □ 

Fibber  McGee  And 

Molly 

George    Gobel 

My  Favorite  Husband 
Two  For  The  Money.  . 

Bob    Hope 

What's  My  Line □ 

December    Bride □ 

Sid    Caesar □ 

Dragnet □ 

Meet    Millie □ 

Father  Knows  Best □ 

Loretta  Young □ 

Ozzie  And  Harriet □ 

Topper    □ 

Mr.    Peepers □ 

Imogene    Coca □ 

Danny  Thomas □ 

Martha     Raye □ 

Halls  Of  Ivy D 

Willy   D 

Private   Secretary □ 

Mr.  And   Mrs.  North...  □ 

Mickey   Rooney □ 

I    Married    Joan □ 

Burns  And  Allen □ 

Red  Buttons □ 

Other  favorite  night-time  shows: 


Occasionally 

a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 


□ 
a 

□ 
a 
□ 
a 
□ 
□ 

D 

a 
a 
□ 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
a 
a 
□ 
□ 
a 


What  story  did  you  like  best  in  this  issue: 

What  story  did  you  like  least  in  this  issue: 

What  stars  did  you  miss  reading  about  in  this  issue: 


102 


B 


cJ<j  e  aulijul    tJlair 


R 


E 


C 


K 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR   THREE    DIFFERENT    HAIR    CONDITIONS 

It  is  important  that  you  use  a  shampoo  made  for  your  individual 
hair  condition.  There  are  Three  Breck  Shampoos.  One  Breck 
Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair.  Another  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  oily  hair. 
A  third  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  normal  hair.  The  next  time  you 
buy  a  shampoo,  select  the  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual 
hair  condition.  A  Breck  Shampoo  is  not  drying  to  the  hair,  yet 
its  gentle  lather  cleans  the  hair  thoroughly.  A  Breck  Shampoo 
will  help  bring  out   the  soft,   natural   beauty  of  your  hair. 

The  Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 


JOHN 

NEW 


H        BRECK 
YORK 


MANUFACTURING       CHEMISTS 
CHICAGO  •  SAN  FRA 


SPRINGFIELD  }  MASSACHUSETTS 

NC1SCO  •  OTTAWA  CANADA 


Mow!  A  tiS&tn  ciqfl/iGtfe  tta£s  km  fo  tmkt ! 

WINSTON 

tastes  good  — like  a  cigarette  should! 


■  Smokers  who  go  for  flavor 
are  sure  going  for  Winston! 
This  filter  cigarette  really 
tastes  like  a  cigarette.  It's  the 
filter  cigarette  that's  fun 
to  smoke! 

New,  king-size  Winstons  are 
easy-drawing,  too!  Winston's 
finer  filter  works  so  effectively, 
yet  doesn't  flatten  the  flavor. 
The  full,  rich,  tobacco  flavor 
comes  through  to  you  easily 
and  smoothly. 

Try  Winstons !  They  taste  good 
—  like  a  cigarette  should ! 


F'NEr 

UvoR 


2^cfe  WINSTON  iki  WA(j-ckoAA)iMq  ^jM&i  QlqaJidttl 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


\DIO  MIRROR'S  N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 
APRIL 


Dorothy  Collins' 
Bundle  of  Joy 

NEW!  BIG! 

Feather  Your  Nest 
Contest 


AT  LAST ! 


A  LIQUID  SHAMPOO 
ha  s  EXTRA  RICH  ! 


FOR 


Something  new  has  happened  to  liquid  shampoos  — it's  exciting, 
extra-rich  Liquid  Prell!  No  other  shampoo  has  this  unique, 
extra-rich  new  formula.  It  bursts  instantly  into  luxurious, 
angel-mild  lather  .  .  .  rinses  in  a  flash.  And  the  way  your  hair  looks 
and  feels  after  a  luxurious  Liquid  Prell  shampoo  — so  satin-soft  — 
so  brilliantly  'Radiantly  Alive'— such  a  dream  to  manage! 
Try  it  todaij— you'll  be  enchanted! 


JUST  POUR  IT  . . .  and  you'll  see  the  glorious  difference! 

Some  liquid  shampoos  are  too  thin  and  watery  .  .  .  some 
too  heavy,  and  contain  an  ingredient  that  leaves  a  dulling 
film.  But  Prell  has  a  "just-right"  consistency  — it  won't 
run,  never  leaves  a  dulling  film  to  hide  radiance. 


PRELL— 

nowavailable  2  ways: 

The  exciting,  new  extra-rich 
liquid  in  the  handsome, 
easy-grip  bottle! 

And  the  famous,  handy^tube 
that's  ideal  for  the  whole 
family.  Won't  spill,  drip,  or 
break.  Concentrated— ounce 
for  ounce  it  goes  further! 


CREATED    BY   PROCTER   4    O.AME 


"—HI IIWIIIIIII 


What?...You  haven!  lasted  NEW  IRANA? 

(ff's  the  best-fasting  wayio  fight  decay) 


Chances  are  you'll  be  even  more  sur- 
prised than  the  wide-eyed  girl  above 
.  .  .  once  you  do  try  new  Ipana.  Espe- 
cially if  you  think  all  tooth  pastes  are 
more  or  less  alike. 

Because  the  wonderful  minty  flavor  of 
new  Ipana  is  so  good  it  beat  all  three 
other  leading  tooth  pastes  hands  down 


—  after  nationwide  "hidden-name" 
home  taste  tests. 

Destroys  decay  and  bad-breath 
bacteria  with  WD-9 

More  good  news  is  the  way  wonder- 
ingredient  WD-9  in  new-formula  Ipana 
fights  tooth  decay — stops  bad  breath  all 
day.  It  destroys  most  mouth  bacteria 


New-Formula  IPANA  l0*«f 

WITH  BACHERIA-DESreOYER  WD-9      £&   *ILif/f' 


with  every  single  brushing,  even  bac- 
teria your  tooth  brush  can't  reach. 
So  enjoy  new  Ipana  .  .  .  and  trust  your 
family's  precious  teeth  to  it. 


Ipana  A/C  Tooth  Paste  (Ammoniated  Chlorophyll)  also  contains  bacteria-destroyer  WD-9  (Sodium  Lauryl  Sulfate). 


MAKE  YOUR  OWN  TASTE-TE2T 

Send  for  generous  sample  tube.  Mail  cou- 
pon today  for  trial  tube  (enough  for  about  25 
brushings) . 

Bristol-Myers  Co.,Dept.T-45.  Hillside, N.J. 
Please  send  me  trial  tube  of  new-formula 
Ipana.  Enclosed  is  3(  stamp  to  cover  part  cost 
of  handling. 

Name. 


Street- 
City. 


_Zone_ 


3tate_ 


(Offer  good  only  in  continental  U.S.A. 
Expires  August  1,  1955.) 


ASK  YOUR 

DOCTOR  or  DRUGGIST 


END  THAT 

"Certain  Time" 
Odor  Problem 


w  __ .        with 


^•ciontaining 

deodorants  jmj„  "mes-and  the 
ligation  haVe  souPZreS  °f  civi' 

Now.however-af,  C°Ver  £t 
turies  -  a  su  h«r=  ter  ?any  cen" 
found  that  »hJ ,  la?,ce  has  been 
odorsd^fh0er^d«rtain  time- 
stance -Daroto?  ;.  ;  h\s  sub- 
in  "ENNBs-uWet";18  f°Und  onl* 

removes   £  ^fc^6?  * 

arfeTe^KiH^ 
as  perspiration  or  af  nth-  P°reS 
material.  other  waste 

noIhoenirye&eUndrs  ?£  °f  "E™™"> 
"certain  S "  Wofry  over 
Purifies  a„d™wee?e„0srthb.U^  ^ 

ShouTdfe^S'^at  You 
Problem  of  Odor  Off™*  fr'^ 
in  Plain  en  velope ;? fe"E(N^1.d 
Dept  TS-C,  P.O.  Box  2?  t" 
Island  City  1,  New  York    '        "g 


'"On 


•••  .    >~       ""  < 


f^trr 


APRIL,  1955 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


VOL.  43,  NO.  5 


N.Y.,  N.J.,  Conn.  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Editorial  Assistant 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate.  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


people  on  the  air 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  4 

Every  Day  is  Father's  Day by  Art  Linkletter  29 

To  the  Heart's  Desire  (Elizabeth  Lawrence) by  Elizabeth  Ball  32 

Mickey  Emerson  Looks  at  Marriage  (James  Kirkwood,  Jr.) 

by  May  Schupack  34 

Faith  in  Each  Other   (Gloria  McMillan) by  Bud  Goode  36 

The  Road  Of  Life  (short-short  story  from  the  popular  daytime  drama)  38 

To  Helen  Trent  with  Love  (Julie  Stevens) by  Frances  Kish  40 

How  to  be  Happy  (Red  Buttons) by  Ed  Meyerson  42 

Professional  Father  (Steve  Dunne) by  Gordon  Budge  56 

Ma  Perkins  (picture  story  from  the  beloved  dramatic  serial) 58 

Make  Up  Your  Mind  (Art  Henley) by  Martin  Cohen  62 

Who's  Who  in  TV  Dramas  (Inger  Stevens,  William  Redfield,  Henry 

Jones,  Eileen  Heckart) 64 

Six  Fellows  and  a  Dog  (Jimmy  Nelson) by  Gwen  Aulis  66 

features  in  full  color 

"You  Can't  Put  it  into  Words"  (Dorothy  Collins  and  Raymond  Scott) 

by  Gladys  Hall  44 

Four  Girls  and  a  Dream  (The  Chordettes) by  Jack  Mahon  46 

Home  with  a  Capital  H by  Mrs.  Durward  Kirby  50 

Feather  Your  Nest  (win  wonderful  prizes  in  the  exciting  TV  Radio 

Mirror  Home  Edition  of  the  new  TV  quiz  program) 52 

your  locafstation 

Salute  to  John  B.  Gambling   (WOR) 6 

The  Early  Bird  Wins  (WIP) .' 8 

A  Time  to  Smile  (WCBS) 12 

Living  Down  East  (WCSH-TV) 26 

your  special  services 

Steve  Allen's  Turntable 11 

Daytime  Diary 14 

Information    Booth 16 

Inside  Radio   (program  listings) 72 

TV  Program  Highlights 74 

New  Patterns  for  You   (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 94 

Cover  portrait  of  Art  Linkletter  and  his  family  by  Sid  Avery 


buy  your  May  copy  early    •    on  sale  April  7 


PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc.,   New 

York,   N.   Y. 

EXECUTIVE,     ADVERTISING     AND     EDITORIAL     OFFICES     at 

205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y.  Editorial  Branch 
Offices:  321  South  Beverly  Drive,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.,  and 
221  North  La  Salle  Street,  Chicago,  111.  Irvine:  S.  Manheimer, 
President;  T,ee  Andrews,  Vice  President;  Meyer  Dworkln, 
Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Advertising  offices  also  in  Chicago 
and   San   Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and  Posses- 
sions and  Canada,  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other  countries. 
change  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When  pos- 
sible, Please  furnish  stencil-impression  address  from  a  re- 
cent issue.  Addrcsct  changes  can  be  made  only  if  you  send  us 
your  old.  as  well  as  your  new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
(MANUSCRIPTS:   AH  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  considered. 

Member  of  The  TRUE 


but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or  damage.  It 
is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self-addressed 
return  envelopes  or  with  sufficient  return  postage  will  be 
returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp..  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17, 
N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Douglas  Lockhart, 
Vice  President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954,  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3, 
1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.O.  Dept.,  Ottawa, 
Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1955  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc. 
AH  rights  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention. 
All  rights  reserved  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion .  Todos  derechos  reservados  segun  La  Convencion  Pan- 
Americana  de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Co. 
STORY  Women's  Grnuc 


fUVeAS*  brid 


desmoid... 


Most  of  the  girls  of  her  set  were  married 
.  .  .  but  not  Eleanor.  It  was  beginning  to 
look,  too,  as  if  she  never  would  be.  True, 
men  were  attracted  to  her,  but  their  interest 
quickly  turned  to  indifference.  Poor  girl! 
She  hadn't  the  remotest  idea  why  they 
dropped  her  so  quickly  .  .  .  and  even  her 
best  friend  wouldn't  tell  her. 

Why  risk  the  stigma  of  halitosis 
(bad  breath)  when  Listerine  Antiseptic 
stops  it  so  easily  ...  so  quickly. 

No  Tooth  Paste  Kills  Odor  Germs 
Like  This . . .  Instantly 

Listerine  does  what  no  tooth  paste 
does — instantly  kills  bacteria,  by  millions 
— stops  bad  breath  instantly,  and  usually 
for  hours  on  end.  Bacterial  fermentation 
of  proteins  which  are  always  present  in 
the  mouth  is  by  far  the  most  common 
cause  of  bad  breath.  Research  shows  that 
breath  stays  sweeter  longer  depending  on  the 
degree  to  which  you  reduce  germs  in  the  mouth. 

No  tooth  paste,  of  course,  is  antiseptic. 
Chlorophyll  does  not  kill  germs — but 


Listerine  kills  bacteria  by  millions, 
gives  you  lasting  antiseptic  protection 
against  bad  breath. 

Listerine  Clinically  Proved 
Four  Times  Better  Than  Tooth  Paste 

Is  it  any  wonder  Listerine  Antiseptic  in 
recent  clinical  tests  averaged  at  least  four 
times  more  effective  in  stopping  bad  breath 
odors  than  the  chlorophyll  products  or 
tooth  pastes  it  was  tested  against?  With 
proof  like  this,  it's  easy  to  see  why 
Listerine  "belongs"  in  your  home.  Gargle 
Listerine  Antiseptic  every  morning  .  .  . 
every  night  .  .  .  before  every  date. 


A  Product  of  The  Lambert  Company 

LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC 
STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  times  better 
than  any  tooth  paste 


Night  and  day  team:  Peter  Lind  Hayes  and  Mary  Healy  have 
added  a  Saturday-night  show  to  their  CBS  Radio  schedule. 


Minetta  Ellen — Mother  Barbour  on  One  Man's  Family 

for  23  years — celebrates  her  80th  birthday  in  style. 


What's  New 


¥       Sergeant  Friday  takes  over:  Jack  Webb  and  his  brand-new  Mrs. — the 
■       former  Dorothy  Towne — honeymoon-lunch  in  Chicago's  Pump  Room. 


•By  Jill  Warren 


After  every  network,  sponsor  and 
agency  had  tried  unsuccessfully 
to  sign  Bing  Crosby  for  television, 
CBS  finally  won  out  and  now  happily 
has  the  Crosby  signature  safely  on  a 
contract.  Bing,  in  an  exclusive 
agreement,  has  agreed  to  do  two  one- 
hour  programs  a  year,  both  on  film. 
The  first  show  is  being  produced  this 
month  in  Hollywood,  and  the  second 
probably  will  be  made  during  June  or 
July,  with  no  definite  showing  date  as 
yet.  CBS  would  have  liked  Bing  to 
do  more  than  two  shows  a  year  but 
cautious  Crosby  said  no,  although  he 
did  agree  to  let  the  network  do  one 
re-broadcast  of  each  program. 

Jackie  Gleason  also  made  news  with 
the  fabulous  contract  he  signed  with 
CBS-TV— to  the  tune  of  some  $11,- 
000,000.  The  contract  covers  a  two- 
year  period  and  will  begin  this  fall, 
with  Buick  as  the  sponsor.  Gleason 
will  abandon  his  hour-long  live  show 
format  in  favor  of  a  half-hour 
filmed  series  of  his  popular  "Honey- 
mooners."  Jackie  was  supposed  to 
star  in  a  movie  this  summer  in  Holly- 


In  his  new  hit  NBC-TV  show,  Bob  Cummings  plays  a  photogra- 
pher, Rosemary  DeCamp  his  sister,  Leigh  Snowden,  a  model. 


Happy  vacationers:    Milton   Berle  and  his  lovely 
wife  Ruth  get  a  much-needed  rest  in  Palm  Beach. 


From  Coast  to  Coast 


wood,  but  has  canceled  out  on  it  in 
order  to  spend  the  time  shooting  his 
new  fall  TV  show. 

CBS  Radio  has  assigned  Peter  Lind 
Hayes  and  Mary  Healy  a  new  show 
of  their  own  on  Saturday  nights.  It's 
a  half-hour  semi-variety  format,  with 
songs  by  Mary  and  comedy  in  Peter's 
sly  style.  This  show  will  in  no  way 
affect  Hayes'  pact  with  CBS  to  serve 
as  Arthur  Godfrey's  Number  One 
stand-in,  whenever  Arthur  takes  time 
off. 

Also  on  CBS  Radio  we  find  The 
Whistler  back  on  a  regular  Thursday 
night  schedule.  This  suspense  mys- 
tery show  was  very  popular  until  it 
went  off  the  air  several  seasons  ago. 
After  that,  it  became  the  subject  of  a 
successful  movie  series.  In  its  latest 
version,  The  Whistler  will  feature  a 
rotating  cast  each  week,  instead  of  a 
regular  star  and  cast. 

Father  Knows  Best,  the  CBS-TV 
show  which  co-stars  Robert  Young 
and  Jane  Wyatt,  is  slated  to  go  off  the 
air  around  the  end  of  this  month,  un- 
less the  sponsor  should  have  a  last- 


minute  change  of  heart.  For  some 
reason,  in  spite  of  the  popularity  of 
the  show,  it  has  failed  to  rack  up  a 
high  enough  rating — which  is  too  bad, 
because  it  was  one  of  the  most  enter- 
taining of  all  the  family  programs. 

Rosemary  Clooney's  fifteen-minute 
song  show,  previously  heard  only  on 
Thursdays  over  CBS  Radio,  is  now 
also  aired  on  Tuesdays,  which  should 
be  good  news  to  Clooney  fans. 

Johnny  Desmond  and  Eileen  Parker 
have  said  their  adieus  to  Don  Mc- 
Neill's Breakfast  Club  show  after 
many  seasons,  and  McNeill  plans  to 
feature  different  guest  singers  for  a 
while,  changing  each  week.  Johnny 
is  all  set  with  a  radio  program  of  his 
own  called  Phonorama  Time,  heard  on 
the  Mutual  network  every  Saturday 
morning,  and  he'll  continue  to  do 
guest  appearances  on  television  shows 
as  well.  Eileen  Parker  is  busy  whip- 
ping up  a  night-club  act. 

The  Chicago  Theater  Of  The  Air 
has  lined  up  an  interesting  schedule 
of  productions  for  their  spring  series, 
on    Mutual    every     Saturday    night. 


They'll  do  "Finian's  Rainbow"  on 
March  12,  "Bittersweet"  on  March  19, 
"The  Great  Waltz"  on  March  26,  and 
"Gypsy  Baron"  on  April  2. 

This  'n'  That: 

There  is  a  chance  that  Grace  Kelly 
may  star  in  "The  Rich  Boy"  for  the 
Producers'  Showcase,  Monday  night 
dramatic  show  on  NBC -TV,  in  the 
near  future.  Grace  is  said  to  be 
anxious  to  do  the  F.  Scott  Fitzgerald 
play — which,  incidentally,  she  did  on 
television  for  the  Philco  Playhouse 
some  three  years  ago,  before  she 
achieved  movie  stardom. 

And  there's  more  than  a  chance  that 
Walter  Winchell  may  head  up  a  full- 
hour  variety  show  on  Sunday  nights 
over  ABC -TV,  in  addition  to  his  fif- 
teen-minute newscast.  Meetings  have 
been  held  on  the  proposed  show,  and 
from  the  little  information  that  has 
leaked  out,  it  looks  like  the  program 
would  start  early  next  fall.  ABC-TV  J 
is  also  after  Frank  Sinatra  to  sign 
with  them  for  his  own  half-hour 
(Continued  on  page  20) 


Salute  to  John  B.  Gambling 


Now  celebrating  his  30th  year 
of  continuous  broadcasting 


Three  generations  of  Gamblings:  Little  John   R.  has 
already  broken  into  radio  with  his  dad  and  granddad. 


The  entire  Gambling  clan  takes  time  out  for  a  formal  pose: 
Ann,  on  John  B.'s  lap;  Rita;  Sally;  John  A.  holding  John  R. 


John  B.  is  grooming  John  A.  to  take  his  place  someday. 


On  February  25,  1925,  John  B.  Gambling  took  the 
two  biggest  steps  of  his  life — he  joined  the 
staff  of  Station  WOR  in  New  York,  and  he  married 
lovely  Rita  Graubart.    Today,  after  thirty  years 
of  the  happiest  of  marriages  to  Rita  and  his  work  at 
WOR,  John  B.  remains  one  of  the  most  pleasant 
and  endearing  personalities  in  the  history  of  radio. 

In  recalling  his  25,000-plus  hours  of  broadcasting, 
John  can  weave  a  scrapbook  of  varied  memories. 
How  well  he  remembers  his  early  days  at  WOR, 
when  he  had  the  most  hated  broadcasting  stint — 
the  8:30  A.M.   gym  classes — and   daily   intoned: 
"Hands  on  hips,  sides,  straddle,  hop,  1-2-3-4."  .  .  . 
Nor  will  he  ever  forget  the  time  his  assignment  was 
the  dedication  of  a  new  carillon  in  one  of  New 
York's  churches.    With  a  half-hour  allotted  for  the 
ceremonies,  John  was  horrified  to  learn  they  would 
last  only  five  minutes.    What  to  do?    John  says, 
"I  spent  twenty-five  minutes  describing  other 
churches   in  my  native   England."    .    .   .   Then   came 
the  morning  when  a  Western  Union  messenger 
delivered  a  telegram.    John  asked  the  messenger 
if  he'd  like  to  say  hello  to  the  radio  audience. 
Wordlessly,  the  messenger  approached  the  mike 
and  said:    "Get  up,  you  lazy  bums!" 

These  are  but  a  smattering  of  the  warm,  delightful 
experiences  millions  of  Gambling  listeners  have 
shared  with  John  through  the  years.     And  they 
continue  to  welcome  him  into  their  homes  each  day, 
starting  at  6  A.M.  with  Rambling  With  Gambling, 
at  7:15  on  Gambling's  Musical  Clock,  at  9:15  on 
Gambling's  Second  Breakfast,  and  finishing  up  at 
11:15  P.M.  with  the  John  Gambling  Program. 

Although  often  called  radio's  human  alarm  clock, 
John  shows  no  signs  of  running  down.    In  addition 
to   his  perpetual-motion   radio   schedule,   he   is 
devoted  to  his  wonderful  family:    Rita,  son  John  A. 
— who  appears  with  John  B.  on  his  shows  and 
will  someday  take  Dad's  place — John  A.'s  wife 
Sally,  and  their  offspring,  John  R.   (another  one!) 
and  Ann.     John  and  Rita  spend  the  winter  months 
in  their  New  York  apartment.  But,  with  the  first 
breath  of  spring,  they  move  out  to  their  nine-room 
home  on  Long  Island  where  John  loves  to  garden, 
fish  or  sail  his  23-foot  cruiser. 

When  John  is  asked  if  radio  has  grown  much  in 
three  decades,  his  good-natured  reply  is:    "Yes, 
but  not  as  much  as  my  family."     Whether  he  means 
his  home  or  radio  family  makes  no  difference — 
for  his  words  apply,  fortunately,  to  both. 


Puts  Dancing  Highlights  In  Your  Hair! 


NEW  FORMULA  OUT-LATHERS, 
OUT-SHINES  OTHER  SHAMPOOS 


MAKES  YOUR  HAIR  EXCITING  TO  TOUCH! 


Hair's  so  satiny  after  a  Helene  Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion  Sham- 
poo it  irresistibly  calls  for  a  love-pat !  You  can't  always  wear 
a  satin  dancing  dress  for  the  man  in  your  life— but  now,  with 
Helene  Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo  he'll  see  the  satiny 
beauty  of  your  hair  every  day!  You'll  find  that  never  before 
in  your  shampoo  experience  has  your  hair  had  so  much  shim- 
mer, so  much  softness. 


Double  Lanolin  Is  The  Reason 

Enriches  Your  Hair  With  Beauty 
Instead  of  Drying  It! 


Lanolin  Lotion  was  pur- 
posely formulated  with 
twice  as  much  lanolin  as 
ordinary  shampoos.  That 
means  double  the  lanolin 
protection  against  dryness 
...double  the  lanolin  polish 
and  beauty  for  your  hair. 
For  even  problem  hair  — 
hair  that's  had  its  beauty 
oils  dried  away... washed 
away. ..bleached  away... 
benefits  astonishingly  from 
this  double-lanolin  lather. 
It  not  only  feels  twice  as 
rich— it  actually  is  twice  as 
rich.  Don't  confuse  this 
utterly  new  Helene  Curtis 
Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo 
with  any  so-called  "lotion" 
or  "lanolin"  shampoo  you've 
ever  tried  before. 


PROOF  THAT  NEW  SHAMPOO 
OUT-LATHERS  OTHER  BRANDS 


200    Lanolin  Lotion 

150 


r) 


OS 


Helene  Curtis  Lanolin 
Lotion  Shampoo  out-lathers 
four  other  brands  given  the 
Cylinder-Foam  Test. 


Billows  of  Fleecy  Foam 
Leave  Hair  Shimmering, 
Obedient,  "Lanolin-Lovely" 


You'll  discover  an  amazing  difference  the  moment  this 
revolutionary  shampoo  touches  your  hair.  For  never 
before  has  any  shampoo  burst  into  such  mountains  of 
snowy  lanolin  lather— lather  that  actually  POLISHES 
hair    clean.    Because    only 


Helene  Curtis  Lanolin 
Lotion  Shampoo  brings  you 
this  foaming  magic.  No 
old-fashioned  "lazy-lather" 
shampoo  can  shine  your 
hair  like  this— 'til  it  shim- 
mers like  satin  in  the  moon- 
light! 

The  radiance  of  your  hair 
shampooed  this  new  way 
will  be  instantly  visible  to 
everyone  —  but  you,  your- 
self, are  the  best  judge  of 
results.  So  after  you've 
brushed  your  Lanolin  Lo- 
tion shampooed  hair,  take 
your  hand  mirror  and  stand 
in  a  strong  light.  You'll  see 
how  much  more  brilliance 
dances  in  your  hair! 

And  this  shampoo  is  so 
good  for  hair... for  there's 
twice  the  lanolin  in  it!  It 
can't  dry  your  hair  or  leave 
it  harsh,  brittle  and  hard  to 
handle.  Instead,  it  leaves 
your  hair  in  superb  condi- 
tion—supple, temptingly 
soft,  far  easier  to  manage. 
Tangles  slip  away  at  the 
touch  of  your  comb!  Your 
waves  come  rippling  back 


OCEANS  OF  LATHER 

EVEN  IN 

HARD  WATER! 

An  amazing  built-in 
water  softener  in  this 
Lanolin  Lotion  Sham- 
poo gives  you  piles  of 
lather  that  rinses  quick, 
leaves  hair  bright— even 
in  the  hardest  water! 


deeper,  firmer,  and  more 
pliantly  lovely  than  ever 
before. 

So  let  this  sensational 
shampoo  discovery  bring 
out  the  thrilling  beauty  hid- 
den in  your  hair!  All  the 
vibrant,  glowing  tone... 
the  natural  softness.  Treat 
your  hair  to  Helene  Curtis 
Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo— 
290,  590  or  $1.  On  sale 
everywhere! 


The 

Early  Bird 

Wins 


ri  J 

i  ^m 

■■■■■""        H 

fe2S2 

DAIRY  PROP 

an                      4Q 

Joe,  who  used  to  come  home  with  the  milkman,  deliv- 
ered the  morning  milk  to  practice  for  his  new  show. 


A  kiss  from  wife  Roz,  a  wave  from  Joey  and  Lyn,  and 
Joe's   off  to   work — like   everyone   else,    only   earlier. 


Switching  to  the  daytime  track,  Joe  "trained"  for  two  weeks  at 
such  morning  jobs  as  collecting  fares  on  the  Route  23  trolley. 

Joe  McCauley  has  moved  from  the  witching 
hours  to  the  waking  hours,  but  WIP 
listeners  still  welcome  him  at  any  time 


Joe  McCauley  has  switched  from  being  a 
Scotiaptex  Nebulosa  (night  owl)  to  being  a  Gallus 
Gallus  (rooster) — which,  in  short,  has  meant  good 
news  to  Quaker  City  listeners.     And  which,  more 
exactly,  means  that,  after  12  years  as  the  night  owl 
pilot  of  Dawn  Patrol  on  Station  WIP,  the  whimsical, 
warm-hearted  Mr.  McCauley  is  now  crowing 
as  the  wake-up  man  on  WIP's  early -morning 
program,  Start  The  Day  Right,  heard  at  6  A.M.  This 
is  good  news  for  Joe,  too,  for  instead  of  snoozing 
while  the  sun  shines,  he  now  rises  in  the  morning 
like  everyone  else,  only  earlier.     He's  up  at  4  A.M., 
with  the  help  of  two  alarm  clocks.  It's  also  good  news 
for  his  wife  Roz,  who  sighed,  one  morning  as  her 
husband  was  about  to  go  to  bed,  "I  wish  you 
worked  in  the  daytime,"  and  started  the  chain  reaction 
that  led  to  putting  the  day  right-side-up  for  the 
McCauley  household.     "Now,  if  the  neighbors  hear 
the  radio  blaring,"  she  grins,  "it  will  only  be  Roz 
McCauley  getting  twelve  years  of  silence  out  of  her 
system."  .  .  .  To  familiarize  himself  with  how  the 
daytime  half  of  the  city  lives,  Joe  went  "in  training" 
for  two  weeks.    He  delivered  milk,  went  out  on  a 
farm,  collected  trolley  fares,  and  visited  the  Dock 
Street  produce  market.  .  .  .  WIP's  new  man  of  the 
morning  is  thirty-five  years  old  and  has  been  in  radio 
since  1937.    His  three  children — Joey,  10;  Lyn,  8; 
and  a  yearling  daughter — are  happy  to  have  him 
on  the  air  at  hours  they  can  tune  in.  They're  especially 
delighted  now  that  there's  more  time  for  the 
McCauley  hobby  of  taping  comic  records  by 
combining  snatches  of  sound  from  different  records.  .  .  . 
The  biggest  difference  Joe  notes  is  the  formality 
of  the  day:  He  now  shaves  daily  and  wears  a  coat 
and  tie.    On  his  all-night  show,  Joe  had  developed  a 
flair  for  the  "casual" — unpressed  slacks,  vivid  plaid 
sport  shirts,  a  three-day  beard.    Since  his  radio 
time  switch,  Joe's  met  a  lot  of  his  old  friends 
again — folks  who  listened  to  his  Dawn  Patrol  when 
they  were  younger  and  dating  and  who  are  now 
married  and  part  of  the  morning  audience.   And,  rather 
than  miss  Joe's  platter-spinning  and  breezy  chatter, 
a  great  many  WIP  night-owl  fans  have  switched 
to  earlier  to  bed  and  earlier  to  rise  to  Start  The 
Day  Right  with  Joe  McCauley. 


Cfj^- 


.  W  0-  B^  &^  ^^J^b  Q^n 


I 


WONDERFUL  NEW  EASY-TO-DO  PIN-CURL  PERMANENT 


"fce/ifct  -jot  uex(J,  ^l^HJeA.  kak,  ^-tqte 


In  hairdos,  today's  look  is  the  soft  look,  and  Procter  &  Gamble's  wonderful 
new  pin-curl  home  permanent  is  especially  designed  to  give  it  to  you.  A 
PIN-IT  wave  is  soft  and  lovely  as  a  pin-curl  set,  never  tight  and  kinky.  PIN-IT 
is  so  wonderfully  different.  There's  no  strong  ammonia  odor  while  you 
use  it  or  left  in  your  hair  afterwards.  It's  easy  on  your  hair,  too,  so  you 
can  use  it  more  often.  And  PIN-IT  is  far  easier  to  give.  You  can  do  it  all 
by  yourself.  Just  put  your  hair  up  in  pin  curls  and  apply  PIN-IT's  Waving 
Lotion.  Later,  rinse  and  let  dry.  With  self-neutralizing  PIN-IT,  you  get 
waves  and  curls  where  you  want  them  ...  no  resetting  needed  ...  a 
permanent  and  a  set  in  one  step.  For  a  wave  that  looks  soft  and  lovely 
from  the  very  first  day  and  lasts  weeks  and  weeks— try  PIN-IT! 


ij^-rn 


BY  PROCTER  fc  GAMBLE  .  .  .  -fo^i!^  CLUaL  Op  t|Ou/U  cOuflOW^- 


A  playful  pink  .  .  .  but  it's  strictly  for  grown-ups! 
There's  nothing  little-girl  about  the 
kiss-me-quick  look  it  gives  your  lips.  This 
bright  new  shade  of  Cashmere  Bouquet  Lipstick 
does  its  good  work  discreetly,  too — Pink-A-Boo 
stays  on  you,  stays  off  everyone  else ! 


7  Cover- Girl  Colors 


49* 


plus  tax 


cashmere 


Conover  girls  pick 
Cashmere  Bouquet 


"Have  a  lipstick  wardrobe:  a  blue-red, 
an  orange-red  and  a  definite  pink.  All 
three  cost  less  than  $2  when,  like  our 
Conover  girls,  you  choose  Cashmere 
Bouquet." 


LotMckl^Ja 


<MA 


,jKB* 


bouquet 


Indelible -Type  Lipstick 

Super-Creamed  to  Keep  Your  Lips  Like  Velvet 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


Hello,  folks,  that  Allen  man  is  here 
again,  ready  to  chat  about  the  same 
things — records.  And,  my  good  peo- 
ple, you  can't  go  wrong  with  good  music. 
Say,  incidentally,  most  of  the  record  com- 
panies have  just  recently  reduced  their 
prices,  on  both  albums  and  singles,  so  it 
looks  like  we  can  all  up  our  platter  budget 
a  bit.  And,  speaking  of  platters,  let  us  ad- 
journ to  the  next  paragraph  and  see  what's 
to  be  had. 

First  on  our  list  is  Perry  Como,  who  is 
first  on  lots  of  lists.  Old  Per  has  done  a 
real  rock  and  roll  rendition  of  the  ditty 
called  "Ko  Ko  Mo,"  and  it  should  cer- 
tainly be  another  Como  hit.  It's  strictly 
rhythm  and  blues  and  Perry  jumps  right 
along  with  the  tempo,  ably  assisted  by 
Mitchell  Ayres'  orchestra  and  the  Ray 
Charles  Singers.  On  the  reverse,  Perry 
sings  a  new  ballad,  "You'll  Always  Be  My 
Lifetime  Sweetheart,"  in  his  more  familiar, 
easy-does-it  style.     (Victor) 

Joni  James,  that  pretty  miss  with  the 
pretty  voice,  has  wrapped  up  a  new  album 
and  tied  it  with  the  title,  "Little  Girl 
Blue."  Joni  sings  eight  songs,  all  old, 
pretty  ones,  and  all  ballads.  Besides  the 
title  song,  she  has  included  such  lyrical 
torchers  as  "I'm  Through  with  Love," 
"These  Foolish  Things,"  "Talk  of  the 
Town,"  "In  Love  in  Vain,"  and  others. 
Joni  has  given  the  tunes  the  wistful  touch, 
the  sort  of  thing  she  does  so  well,  and  she 
has  excellent  musical  accompaniment  from 
David  Terry  and  the  orchestra.     (M-G-M) 

From  the  soft  to  the  solid,  we  go  to 
Stan  Kenton  and  his  orchestra — and  a  heap 
big  album  production  called  "The  Kenton 
Era."  Capitol  has  taken  a  tip  from  Decca, 
who  did  Bing  Crosby's  musical  career  with 
their  fabulous  "Bing"  album,  and  they  have 
put  Kenton  on  wax,  starting  'way  back 
when,  following  through  the  various  pe- 
riods of  his  orchestral  style.  The  album  is 
done  in  eight  parts:  1.  "Prologue,"  in  which 
Stan  does  a  narration  on  the  develop- 
ment of  his  music;  2.  "Balboa  Band- 
wagon;" 3.  "Growing  Pains;"  4.   "Artistry 


Steve  gets  the  word  from  Sarah  Vaughn 
on    her    latest    recording    for    Mercury. 


in  Rhythm;"  5.  "Progressive  Jazz;"  6. 
"Innovations;"  7.  "Contemporary;"  and  8. 
"Epilogue."  There  are  thirty-two  tunes 
in  all,  and  any  Kenton  fan  will  recognize 
just  about  all  of  them.  The  album  is  done 
on  EP  and  LP. 

Sarah  Vaughn's  latest  is  a  good  ballad, 
"How  Important  Can  It  Be?"  And  this 
could  be  an  important  record  for  Sarah. 
The  song  has  a  meaningful  lyric  which 
lends  itself  well  to  her  full,  rich  voice, 
and  she  also  does  a  little  harmonizing  with 
herself.  The  backing  is  "Waltzing  Down 
the  Aisle."  Hugo  Peretti's  orchestra  sup- 
plies the  music  for  both.     (Mercury) 

New  vocal  groups  are  still  coming  at  us 
this  year,  all  of  them  hoping  to  make  it 
with  that  one  hit  record.  Now  we  have 
some  lads  who  call  themselves  The  Four 
Coins,  and  they're  hoping  with  a  new  Epic 
release,  "My  Anxious  Heart"  and  "Oh, 
Mother  Dear."  Then  there  are  The  Tattle 
Tales,  three  boys  and  a  girl,  who  have 
their  fingers  crossed  with  "Vieni  Qui"  and 
a  new  novelty,  "Who  Put  the  Ugh  in 
the  Mambo?" — a  good  question,  don't  you 
think?      (Columbia) 

In  spite  of  Jackie  Gleason's  fabulous  new 
television  deal  (How  many  million  is  it, 
Jack?),  he  still  finds  the  time  to  pursue 
his  favorite  hobby,  that  of  being  a  maes- 
tro. His  "Music,  Martinis  and  Memories" 
album  sold  very  well,  and  now  he  has  a 
new  offering.  It's  called  "Music  to  Re- 
member Her,"  and  there  are  sixteen  "hers," 
including  "Ruby,"  "Dinah,"  "Lorraine," 
"Marilyn,"  "Sweet  Sue,"  "Marie,"  and 
"Tangerine."  The  musical  tributes  to  the 
girls  are  all  instrumentals,  of  course,  mag- 
nificently arranged  by  Sidney  Feller  and 
Pete  King  and  given  the  lush  treatment  by 
the  big  Gleason  orchestra.  And  there  are 
some  wonderful  trumpet  solos  by  Bobby 
Hackett.     (Capitol) 

Sammy  Davis,  Jr.,  who  sings  rhythm 
things  and  ballads  equally  well,  has  waxed 
a  ballad  this  time,  "Six  Bridges  to  Cross," 
from  the  Universal-International  picture 
of  the  same  name.  Sammy  sings  it  in  the 
movie,  too.  Jeff  Chandler,  by  the  way, 
helped  write  this  one.  On  the  backing, 
Sammy  gives  out  with  the  Cole  Porter 
tune,  "All  of  You."  Joseph  Gershenson 
conducts  the  orchestra  on  both.     (Decca) 

Here's  "Ko  Ko  Mo"  again,  given  the 
feminine  treatment  by  the  Misses  Betty 
and  Marion  Hutton,  and  belted  out  in 
beat  style — natch.  On  the  flip-over,  the 
gals  harmonize  with  "Heart  Throb."  Vic 
Schoen's  arrangements  and  orchestra.  This 
is  the  first  time  Marion  and  Betty  have 
ever  made  a  record  together  and,  if  it 
goes,  the  sisters  may  continue  as  a  platter 
team.     (Capitol) 

If  you've  watched  any  of  the  Disney- 
land TV  shows,  you  may  have  been  aware 
of  some  fine  incidental  music.  And  in 
"Davy  Crockett,"  one  of  the  Frontierland 
series,  there  were  two  songs,  "The  Ballad 
of  Davy  Crockett"  and  "Farewell,"  which 


have  been  put  on  record  by  baritone  Bill 
Hayes.  Bill  (Remember  him  from  Your 
Show  Of  Shows?)  has  done  a  fine  job  on 
both,  with  vocal  and  instrumental  back- 
grounds conducted  by  Archie  Bleyer. 
(Cadence) 

Coral  has  a  little  gal  whose  career  is 
zooming  along  nicely,  thank  you — Eydie 
Gorme,  whom  you  should  know  from  my 
Tonight  television  show,  if  you  watch  it. 
And  if  you  don't,  why  don't  you?  Any- 
way, Eydie  has  a  new  record  for  our  ap- 
proval, "A  Girl  Can't  Say,"  and  "Give  a 
Fool  a  Chance,"  with  musical  support  by 
Dick  Jacobs'  chorus   and  orchestra. 

"B.G.  in  Hi-Fi"  is  the  name  of  a  new 
Capitol  album.  Translated,  it  means  Benny 
Goodman,  of  course,  with  his  orchestra 
and  his  combos.  Using  his  big  band,  his 
trio,  sextet  and  quintet,  Benny  and  his 
fine  musicians  have  etched  sixteen  tunes 
in  all,  including  such  Goodman  classics  as 
"Stompin'  at  the  Savoy,"  "Big  John  Spe- 
cial," "Jersey  Bounce,"  "Get  Happy," 
"Jumpin'  at  the  Woodside"  and,  of  course, 
his  famous  theme,  "Let's  Dance."  If  you're 
a  Goodman  fan  like  I  am,  this  is  for  you. 

Eddy  Howard  has  a  new  record  of  a 
tune  which  has  been  around  for  a  while, 
"The  Finger  of  Suspicion."  The  song  has 
previously  been  recorded  by  many  sing- 
ers, with  no  world-shaking  results,  but 
the  Howard  treatment  may  just  ring  the 
bell.  Eddy  uses  an  echo-chamber,  sound- 
effect  gimmick,  which  makes  for  an  in- 
teresting rendition.  On  the  reverse  he  has 
done  "Old  Memories,"  with  a  little  "reci- 
tation" along  with  the  vocal.      (Mercury) 

If  you  saw  Bing  Crosby's  fine  movie, 
"Country  Girl,"  you'll  certainly  want  his 
newest  two  records,  on  which  he  has  done 
four  songs  from  the  picture.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  you'll  like  the  discs  even  if  you 
haven't  caught  the  movie  yet.  On  the 
first,  Bing  sings  "It's  Mine,  It's  Yours," 
coupled  with  "Dissertation  on  the  State  of 
Bliss,"  which  he  duets  with  Patty  An- 
drews, formerly  of  the  Andrews  Sisters. 
The  second  combines  "The  Search  Is 
Through"  and  "The  Land  Around  Us." 
(Decca) 

Kay  Starr  is  one  vocal  lady  who  is 
equally  at  home  crooning  a  tear-jerker  or 
belting  out  a  rhythm  tune,  and  for  her 
first  release  under  her  new  Victor  con- 
tract she  has  chosen  a  sobber  and  a 
jumper.  "Turn  Right"  is  a  rhythm  ditty, 
fast  and  furious,  with  Kay  singing  like 
mad  from  start  to  finish.  On  the  backing, 
Kay  slows  down  to  a  walk  with  a  slight 
weeper  called,  "If  Anyone  Finds  This,  I 
Love  You."  It's  the  sad  tale  about  a  note 
written  by  an  orphan  and,  incidentally, 
the  little  girl's  voice  on  the  record  really 
is  that  of  an  orphan,  to  whom  Kay  is  T 
turning  over  part  of  the  royalties.  (Victor)     v 

Well,  it's  time  for  you  to  turn  the  page,    R 
I  guess,  on  account  of  my  space  is  up.   I'll 
go  quietly,  but  I'll   be  back   at   you   next 
month   with   another    record    roundup. 


By 
ELLEN  TAUSSIG 


With  records,  reveries  and  his 

magic-wand  voice,  Lanny  Ross  casts 

a  delightful  spell  for  WCBS  listeners 

by  making  his  daily  shows: 


The  guitar  has  long  been  one  of  Lanny's  best  companions, 
especially  during   long  trips  when   he  travels  by  himself. 


A  TIME  TO 


As  his  wife  Olive  accompanies  him  on  the  piano,  Lanny  plays 
and  sings  one  of  the  many  enjoyable  ballads  he  has  composed. 

12 


While  he  was  a  student  at  Yale  University, 
Lanny  Ross  had  the  opportunity  to  tour  Eu- 
rope as  leader  of  the  famous  Yale  Glee  Club.  When 
the  group  sang  for  London  audiences,  Lanny's  voice 
was  heralded  by  the  music  editor  of  the  London 
Observer  as  "the  loveliest  singing  we've  heard  in  a 
long  while."  Today — after  more  than  a  score  of 
years  of  Lanny's  serenading  millions  the  world  over 
via  the  stage,  movies,  radio  and  television — WCBS 
listeners  are  finding  those  words  still  hold  true  as 
they  lend  an  ear  each  day  to  Lanny  Ross  Showtime 
at  4:30  P.M.  and  Lanny  Ross  Presents  at  6:30  P.M. 
And  yet,  believe  it  or  not,  at  one  time  there  were 
grave  doubts  in  Lanny's  mind  that  he  would  ever 
become  a  top-ranking  singer.  So  uncertain  was  he 
that  he  prepared  himself  to  be  a  lawyer.  After 
graduation  from  Yale — where  he  had  studied  drama- 
tics, sung  with  the  Whiffenpoofs  as  well  as  the  Glee 
Club,  and  held  the  school  record  for  the  300-yard 
dash — Lanny  went  to  Columbia  University  and 
earned  his  law  degree.  Then  he  took  and  passed  the 
New  York  State  Bar  examination  .  .  .  but  he  never 
once  practiced  law.  Instead,  he  saw  his  most  ardent 
dream  become  a  reality  when,  on  Christmas  morn- 
ing, 1928,  he  made  his  radio  debut  over  NBC.  What 
followed  is  part  of  show  business'  most  pleasant  his- 
tory: On  radio,  he  was  star  of  Show  Boat,  Mardi 
Gras,  Your  Lucky  Strike  Hit  Parade  ...  in  movies, 
he  starred  in  "Melody  in  Spring,"  "College  Rhythm," 
"The  Lady  Objects"  .  .  .  and  throughout  the  country 
he  was  acclaimed  in  night  clubs  and  concert  halls. 
Then  came  the  war  and  Lanny  found  himself  in 
an  entirely  different  theater — the  South  Pacific — 
where  he  served  on  General  MacArthur's  staff  as 
liaison  officer  between  the  Army  and  USO  camp 
tours.  There,  too — for  27  months — Lanny  made 
history:  He  was  responsible  for  organizing  enter- 
tainment and  sports  programs  in  the  Pacific  Theater; 
he  inaugurated  the  first  soldier  show  in  Japan;  he 
won  four  battle  stars,  the  Legion  of  Merit  medal 
and  the  Philippines  Liberation  Ribbon. 


On  the  air:  Lanny  and  his  accompanist  Milton  Kaye — 
who's  never  without  a  cigar — render  a  duet  with  gusto. 


He  collects  stamps — and  hats,  some  of  which  belonged 
to  his  actor-dad,  others  used  by  Lanny  in  night-club  acts. 


SMILE 


When  he  returned  to  this  country  after  the  war, 
Lanny  went  right  back  to  his  singing  and  has  con- 
tinued to  enchant  audiences  with  his  magic -wand 
voice  that  is  at  once  gentle,  pleasing  and  spirited — 
just  as  Lanny  himself  is.  Currently,  on  his  daily 
WCBS  shows,  Lanny  provides  a  relaxing  fare  of 
songs  old  and  new — sung  by  him,  or  recorded — 
sprinkled  with  pleasant,  informative  chatter.  Those 
who  have  developed  the  enjoyable  habit  of  listening 
to  Lanny  have  found  his  shows  welcome  and  refresh- 
ing interludes. 

Although  music  has  played  the  major  role  in 
Lanny's  life,  it  has  by  no  means  been  the  only 
object  of  his  interest.  Until  recently,  he  was  an 
expert  gentleman  farmer  of  long  standing.  His 
"Melody  Farm,"  as  he  called  it,  once  boasted  a  herd 
of  prize  dairy  cows,  each  of  which  Lanny  named 
after  a  favorite  song — such  as  "Moonlight  and  Roses," 
or  "Dolores."  This,  laughs  Lanny  now,  "probably  set 
the  cattle  industry  back  a  thousand  years."  He  also 
enjoys  fishing  and  hunting.  However,  since  he 
doesn't  believe  in  killing  just  for  sport,  Lanny  says, 
"I  only  shoot  what  I  will  eat."  His  wife  Olive  con- 
firms this,  adding:  "He's  a  good  shot."  So  good,  in 
fact,  that  Lanny  formerly  was  a  regular  guest  at 
the  Annual  One-Shot  Antelope  Contest  held  by  the 
governors  of  Wyoming  and  Montana. 

Nowadays,  although  he  still  has  little  time  for 
pipe  and  slippers,  Lanny  no  longer  pursues  farming, 
having  found  it  too  time-consuming.  But  he  has 
other  irons  in  the  fire.  There  is  his  fine  stamp  col- 
lection which  he  keeps  meaning  to  get  at  .  .  .  there's 
the  house  in  the  city  which  he  and  Olive  bought 
recently  and  are  busy  remodelling  .  .  .  and,  he  muses, 
he'd  love  to  take  another  trip  to  Europe.  But,  above 
all,  there  is — and  always  will  be — his  music.  And, 
as  he  sings  each  night  on  his  shows:  "Just  give  me 
music,  in  the  evening,  romance  and  moonlight  .  ..  ." 
everyone  who  hears  him  should  know  Lanny  means 
that  sincerely  and  is  most  content  to  make  his  shows 
a  time  to  smile. 


Lanny's  apartment  houses  an  extensive  music  file.  On  the  walls  of    R 
his  den  hang  the  many  track  medals  he  won  while  in  college. 

13 


Replies  From  Survey  Reveal: 

NURSES 

sumstDOUCUING™™ 

ZONITE 

FDR  FEMININE  HVGIENE 


T 
¥ 
R 

14 


What  Greater  Assurance  Can  a 
Bride-to-be  or  Married  Woman  Have 

Women  who  value  .true  married  happi- 
ness and  physical  charm  know  how 
essential  a  cleansing,  antiseptic  and  de- 
odorizing douche  is  for  intimate  femi- 
nine cleanliness  and  after  monthly 
periods. 

Douching  has  become  such  a  part  of 
the  modern  way  of  life  an  additional 
survey  showed  that  of  the  married 
women  who  replied: 

83.3%  douche  after  monthly  periods. 
86.5%  at  other  times. 
So  many  women  are  benefiting  by  this 
sanitary  practice — why  deny  yourself? 
What  greater  "peace  of  mind"  can  a 
woman  have  than  to  know  zonite  is  so 
highly  regarded  among  nurses  for  the 
douche? 

ZONITE's  Many  Advantages 

Scientific  tests  proved  no  other  type 
liquid  antiseptic-germicide  for  the 
douche  of  all  those  tested  is  so  power- 
fully effective  yet  safe  to  body 
tissues  as  zonite.  It's  positively  non- 
poisonous,  non-irritating.  You  can  use 
zonite  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A 
zonite  douche  immediately 
washes  away  odor-causing 
deposits.  It  completely  de- 
odorizes. Leaves  you  with  a 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence. Inexpensive.  Costs 
only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 

ZONITE— The  Ideal  "ALL-PURPOSE" 
Antiseptic-Germicide 


Daytime 
Diary 


All  programs  are  heard  Monday   through  Friday;   consult  local 
papers  for  time  and  station 


AUNT  JENNY  It  is  no  secret  to  Aunt 
Jenny  that  just  as  many  strange  things 
happen  in  small  towns  as  in  big  ones.  But 
many  of  her  Littleton  neighbors  would 
have  been  astounded  at  the  predicament  of 
young  Ruth  Garrison,  whose  patriotism  in- 
volved her  in  a  double  play  between  a 
Communist  group  and  the  FBI.  Ruth's  en- 
gagement and  her  very  life  were  threat- 
ened in  her  story,  recently  told  by  Aunt 
Jenny.   CBS  Radio. 

BACKSTAGE  WIFE  No  matter  how 
often  Mary  Noble  exposes  the  lies  and 
subterfuges  of  Elise  Shephard,  the  young 
actress  who  is  determined  to  break  up 
Mary's  home  always  manages  to  convince 
Larry  Noble  that  she  is  the  soul  of  honor. 
With  Larry  increasingly  attached  to  Elise, 
Mary  faces  the  grim  possibility  that  Elise 
may  win.  Will  Mary  lose  her  handsome 
actor-husband  to  Elise?    NBC  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  DAY  Too  many 
people  in  New  Hope  are  anxious  to  see 
the  last  of  Bert  Ralston,  and  finally  some- 
one arranges  it  by  murder.  His  death  ap- 
pears to  clear  the  way  for  Sandra  and 
Grayling  Dennis.  But  marriage  doesn't 
solve  all  problems,  as  Grayling's  father, 
the  Reverend  Richard  Dennis,  knows  too 
well.  Has  Reverend  Dennis  the  experience 
he  will  need  to  combat  the  problems  Rals- 
ton raised  in  life  and  in  death?  CBS-TV 
and  CBS  Radio. 

CONCERNING      MISS      MARLOWE 

Wealthy  Jim  Gavin  never  doubts  that 
money,  charm  or  power — all  of  which  he 
has  in  good  supply — will  get  him  any- 
thing he  happens  to  want.  But  Maggie 
Marlowe  may  become  one  of  the  few  ex- 
ceptions. The  meaningless  marriage  of 
which  Jim  expected  to  dispose  so  easily, 
and  the  scrutiny  of  his  snobbish  mother, 
combine  to  raise  many  questions  in  Mag- 
gie's mind.  And  her  strange  young 
daughter  is  a  further  complication.  NBC- 
TV. 

THE  DOCTOR'S  WIFE  As  a  rising 
young  doctor,  Dan  Palmer  knows  his  wife 
can  be  a  big  help,  or  the  opposite,  and  he 
has  always  been  completely  happy  with 
his  own  choice.   Julie  is  not  only  the  girl 


he  loves,  but  someone  more  than  capable 
of  helping  him  build  a  solid  life  in  Stan- 
ton. Lately,  however,  Julie's  zeal  on  be- 
half of  the  town's  children  is  making  Dan 
nervous.  Is  she  trying  to  maneuver  some- 
thing a  bit  too  big  for  her?    NBC  Radio. 

FIRST  LOVE  More  deeply  hurt  than  she 
will  admit  even  to  herself,  Laurie  makes  a 
strong  effort  to  turn  away  from  Zach  to  a 
steady,  untemperamental,  feet -on -the - 
ground  man  cleverly  promoted  by  her 
father.  Can  another  kind  of  love  replace 
the  wild,  sweeping  emotion  she  shared 
with  Zach?  Even  if  it  can,  is  it  possible 
that  neither  she  nor  Zach  can  be  happy 
unless  they  are  together?  NBC-TV. 

THE  GOLDEN  WINDOWS  Almost 
all  of  Julie's  young  life  she  has  been  satis- 
fied to  call  Charles  Goodwin  her  father, 
never  expecting  to  be  reminded  that  long 
ago  there  were  a  real  father  and  mother 
who  died  somewhere  in  Europe.  The  sud- 
den revelation  that  perhaps  they  did  not 
die  turns  Julie's  life  upside  down.  How  is 
the  man  calling  himself  Fritz  Lang  con- 
cerned in  Julie's  story?  Why  is  Julie,  an 
unknown  young  singer,  important  to  him? 
NBC-TV. 

THE  GREATEST  GIFT  The  problem 
of  the  compulsive  drinker  is  difficult 
enough  for  any  doctor  to  handle,  but  Dr. 
Eve  Allen  faces  more  than  she  knows  how 
to  cope  with,  when  the  drinker  is  her  own 
sister.  Eve  knows  there  will  soon  be 
further  tragedies  to  add  to  the  wrecked 
marriage  unless  she  can  get  her  sister  to 
at  least  admit  the  extent  of  her  danger. 
How  will  this  affect  Eve's  promising  new 
status  at  the  hospital?    NBC-TV. 

THE  GUIDING  LIGHT  Though  Dr. 
Dick  Grant's  friends  at  Cedars  Hospital 
were  all  aware  that  Dr.  Thompson  was 
systematically  persecuting  him,  not  even 
Dr.  Kelly  was  alert  enough  to  prevent  the 
shocking  climax  of  Dick's  breakdown.  Will 
Dick's  disturbed  mind  give  way  completely 
before  he  is  found?  Will  his  ex-wife 
Kathy  at  last  face  the  truth  about  her 
feelings  during  the  tense  days  of  his  dis- 
appearance? CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 
(Continued  on  page  22) 


Only  Bobbi  is  especially  designed  to  give  the  softly  feminine  wave 
necessary  for  this  new  "Laura"  hairstyle.  No  nightly  settings. 


Soft,  natural  right  from  the  start . . .  that's  the  "Bobbi  Swirl"  hair- 
style after  a  Bobbi.  Bobbi  is  so  easy. .  .no  help  is  needed. 


? 


Bobbi's  soft  curls  make  a  natural,  informal  wave  like 
this  possible.  A  Bobbi  Pin -Curl  Permanent  always 
gives  you  carefree  curls  as  in  this  "Secret  Date"  hairdo. 


Want  a  softly  feminine  hairdo? 

That  is  the  only  kind  a  Bobbi  knows  how  to  give. 

It's  the  special  pin-curl  permanent— 

never  tight,  never  fussy. 


All  Bobbi  girls  have  soft,  carefree  curls,  because  a  Bobbi  can't  — 
simply  can't — £<ve  you  tight,  fussy  curls.  From  the  very  first  day 
your  Bobbi  will  have  the  beauty,  the  body,  the  soft,  lovely  look  of 
naturally  wavy  hair.  And  your  waves  last  week  after  week.  Curls 
and  waves  are  where  you  want  them.  Bobbi  is  the  easy  pin-curl  perma- 
nent specially  designed  for  today's  newest  softly  feminine  hair  styles. 

Just  pin-curl  your  hair  in  your  favorite  style.  Apply  Bobbi's  special 
Creme  Oil  Lotion.  A  little  later  rinse  hair  with  water.  Let  dry, 
brush  out.  Right  away  you  have  soft,  natural,  flattering  curls. 

More  women  have  had  a  Bobbi  than  any  other  pin-curl  perma- 
nent. Why  don't  you  try  Bobbi,  too? 


■■■■■ 
Bobbi  is  made  especially  to  give  young,  romantic 
hairstyles  like  this  "Sapphire"  hairdo.  And  the  curl 
stays  in  —  in  any  weather.  Always  soft  and  natural. 


Just  pin -curls  and   Bobbi.    No   separate  neutralizer,  no    curlers,  no  resetting. 
Everything — New  Creme  Oil  Lotion,  special  bobby  pins.  Si. 50  plus  tax. 


15 


above  all 
under  all- 
better  buy 


a  style  for  every  figure 

Easter  wouldn't  be  Easter  without  them ! 

Dove  Skin  rayon  knit  undies 

feel  simply  marvelous  on  — 

softer  to  the  touch,  more  absorbent, 

never  clammy.  They're  styled  and 

sized  to  fit  every  figure  —  tall,  short,  thin 

or  extra-sized  .  .  .  have  plenty  of  "give" 

in  action.  And  they  wash  'n'  wear  without 

pampering.  Each  in  its  own  fresh 

cellophane  package. 

At  MACY'S  in  New  York 

and  leading  stores  coast  to  coast ...  or  write 

Luxuray,  Empire  State  Building,  N.  Y.  1. 


16 


information  booth 


Person  To  Person 

Dear  Editor: 

Can  the  people  interviewed  see  Edward 
R.  Murrow  as  they  talk  to  him  on  CBS- 
TV's  Person  To  Person? 

V.L.T.,   Trumansburg,  N.   Y. 

No,  the  people  Ed  Murrow  visits  with 
on  TV  cannot  see  him.  The  program  is 
taking  place  as  you  see  it,  and  the  celebri- 
ties interviewed  can  hear  Ed's  questions 
and  comments  over  a  special  telephone 
arrangement. 

First  Love 

Dear  Editor: 

Can  you  give  me  some  information  on 
Val  Dufour,  who  plays  Zachary  James  on 
NBC-TV's  First  Love?  Where  can  I  write 
to  him?  C.B.,  Port  Clinton,  0. 

Acting  is  Val  Dufour's  "first  love."  He's 
been  in  show  business  since  he  was  seven 
and  debuted  in  a  minstrel  show  in  his 
native  New  Orleans.  It  was  a  Knights  of 
Columbus  production  and  Val  sang  "Ain't 
Gonna  Give  Nobody  None  of  My  Jelly 
Roll."  .  .  .  Born  Albert  Valery  Dufour  II 
on  February  5,  1928,  Val  attended  Louisi- 
ana State  University  and  then,  over  his 
physician-father's  objections,  struck  out 
for  Broadway  in  1949.  Behind  him  were  a 
series  of  song-and-dance  night  club  ap- 
pearances, minstrel  shows,  and  straight 
leads  in  the  New  Orleans  Civic  Theater 
Company  and  the  Petite  Theatre  Vieux 
Carre.  Ahead  of  him  was  a  job  as  an  ele- 
vator operator  at  New  York's  Hotel  Astor. 
The  job  lasted  three  months  and  was  his 
last  outside  the  theater.  Val  has  appeared 
on  Broadway  in  "High  Button  Shoes"  and 
"The  Grass  Harp"  and  in  the  Chicago 
company  of  "Mr.  Roberts."  He  turned 
down  a  supporting  lead  in  the  Chicago 
version  of  "Wonderful  Town"  to  play  the 
male  lead  in  First  Love  ...  As  to  hobbies, 
Val  says,  "My  life  is  acting,  acting,  act- 
ing." He  teaches  acting  three  nights  a 
week  at  a  Manhattan  YMCA,  goes  fre- 
quently to  movies  and  plays,  and  takes  an 
occasional  weekend  jaunt  to  Jones  Beach. 
He  doesn't  mind  commuting  from  his 
Greenwich  Village  apartment  to  Phila- 
delphia, where  the  show  is  telecast.  "I 
learn  my  lines  on  the  train,"  he  says. 
Write  to  him  c/o  NBC-TV,  30  Rockefeller 
Plaza,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Famous  Footsteps 

Dear  Editor: 

Would  you  tell  me  something  about 
Vivian  Smolen,  who  plays  Our  Gal  Sunday 
on  CBS?  Where  can  I  write  to  her? 

J. A.M.,   Stonington,   III. 

Five-feet-two  with  eyes  of  blue,  Vivian 


Vivian  Smolen 


Smolen  was  following  in  the  footsteps  of 
no  less  an  actress  than  Ethel  Barrymore 
when  she  began  her  role  as  Our  Gal  Sun- 
day, a  part  first  created  by  Miss  Barry- 
more  on  Broadway.  Vivian  was  also  keep- 
ing up  a  family  tradition  set  by  her 
father,  a  violinist  and  conductor,  who  had 
his  own  program  on  radio  while  she  was 
still  a  baby.  Vivian  made  her  own  micro- 
phone debut  when  she  was  14.  .  .  .  Active 
in  school  dramatics  at  Brooklyn's  James 
Madison  High,  Vivian  then  enrolled  at 
Brooklyn  College,  only  to  leave  after  a 
few  weeks  to  devote  all  her  time  to  acting. 
Today,  in  addition  to  her  role  as  Lord 
Henry  Brinthrope's  American  wife,  she 
is  heard  on  NBC  as  Laurel,  the  daughter 
of  Stella  Dallas.  .  .  .  Vivian's  New  York 
apartment  houses  her  ever-growing  collec- 
tion of  music  from  Beethoven  to  Berlin, 
plus  samples  of  her  painting  and  needle- 
point hobbies.  She  also  likes  to  knit, 
window-shop  and  go  to  the  theater  and 
ballet.  She  mixes  her  reading  of  serious 
novels  and  biographies  with  murder  mys- 
teries. Write  to  her  c/o  Our  Gal  Sunday, 
CBS,  485  Madison  Ave.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Can-Can 

Dear  Editor: 

What  is  the  title  of  the  music  that  is 
played  as  Playhouse  Of  Stars  goes  on  the 
air?  V.H.,  Gastonia,  N.  C. 

The  music  is  "Can-Can,"  from  "La 
Boutique  Fantastique,"  by  Respighi,  based 
on  a  theme  by  Rossini. 

Road  Show 

Dear  Editor: 

I  would  like  to  know  more  about  Hal 
Holbrook,  who  plays  Grayling  Dennis 
on  The  Brighter  Day  over  CBS-TV  and 
CBS  Radio.  L.N.,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 

(Continued  on  page  18) 


r- 


HimtaJ>dftmdIiriig 

the  first  girdle  to  give  you 

Ttad  WmmA  L@@k 
amid  iblfo®  Firraedbrnm  ^aa  hm 


EM^s 


NEW 
PLAYTEX 


The  chic  lines  of  Paris— in  carefree  American  comfort— are 
yours  with  this  newest  Playtex  Girdle/  We  call  it  High  Style 
.  .  .  you'll  call  it  wonderful/  World's  only  girdle  to  give 
all  three:  miracle-slimming  latex  outside,  cloud-soft  fabric 
inside— and  a  new  non-roll  top.  Trims  you  sleekly,  leaves 
you  free  .  .  .  no  matter  what  your  size!  Playtex  High  Style 
washes  in  seconds— and  you  can  practically  watch  it  dry. 


Look  for  the  Playtex  High  Style  Girdle  in  the  SLIM  tube  . 
Other  Playtex  Girdles  from  13.50.  At  department  stores 
and  better  specialty  shops  everywhere. 

♦U.S.A.  and  foreign  patents  pending      tTrademark 


•$q:95 


New  Playtex, 

Living     Bra 

The  model  in  the  photo- 
graph has  on  this  excit- 
ing bra  for  the  high, 
round  look  Paris  loves 
—you  will,  too.'  And  it's 
"custom-contoured"  for 
perfect  fit.'  Only  S3.95 


©1955    International  Latex  Corp'n!  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Dover  Del  if  In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont.  17 


18 


Want  a  good  group  project  this  spring? 

f~l  An  off-beat  treat        Q  Bird  watching        Q  A  Maypole  party 


Posies  *n'  candy  are  dandy  — but  ask  the 
crowd:  how  about  planning  something  extra, 
this  Mother's  Day?  A  really  off-beat  treat 
for  their  moms?  Then  pool  your  wits  and 
wallets;  throw  a  theatre  party  with  the 
mothers  as  honored  guests.  They'll  love  it 


—  this  fun  way  of  thanking  them  for  being 
"the  most,"  pal-wise!  And  wasn't  it  your 
mom,  too,  who  taught  you  how  to  smile 
through  certain  days  ?  Yes.  She  helped  you 
choose  Kotex*  for  softness,  safety  you  can 
trust . . .  the  complete  absorbency  you  need. 


At  first  glance,  would  you  say  she's  a  — 

l~l  Gold  digger  £2  Mixed  up  kid 

I  I  Shrinking  violet 
She  may  be  a  razor  at  repartee,  but  in  clothes 
savvy  she's  got  her  lines  mixed.  Example : 
that  short  flared  coat  calls  for  a  stem-slim 
skirt,  not  the  full-skirted  style.  Bone  up  on 
what  fashion  lines  combine  best.  Just  as 
you've  learned  that  (at  calendar  time)  Kotex 
and  those  flat  pressed  ends  are  your  best  in- 
surance against  revealing  lines.  And  with 
Kotex,  no  "wrong  side"  mix-up!  You  can 
wear  this  napkin  on  either  side,  safely. 


Can  you  shorten  a  lofty  neck  with  — 

|~~]  Drop  earrings  Q  A  poodle  haircut 

|~1  V  necklines 
Does  your  neck  make  you  feel  "tree  top 
tall?"  Dodge  the  earrings,  hairdo,  V  necks 
mentioned  above  (all  are  wrong  — to  keep 
you  guessing ) !  Wear  button  earbobs ;  tresse9 
medium  long.  And  chokers,  turtle  necklines 
—  they're  for  you!  Different  girls  have  dif- 
ferent needs — in  grooming  aids,  and  in  sani- 
tary protection.  That's  why  Kotex  provides 
3  sizes.  Try  Regular,  Junior,  Super;  each  has 
chafe-free  softness;  holds  its  shape. 


More  women,  choose  KOTEX  than  all  other  sanitary  napkins 


^O.  When  "that"  day  arrives  for  the  first  time, 
will  you  be  prepared?  Send  today  for  the  new  free 
booklet  "You're  a  Young  Lady  Now"!  Written  for 
girls  9  to  12,  it  tells  all  you  need  to  know,  before- 
hand. Easy-reading.  Button-bright!  Write  P.O. 
Box  3434,  Dept.  1245,  Chicago  54,  Illinois. 


T.  H.  FEB. 
U.  (■  PAI.  OFF. 


information  booth 

(Continued  from  page  16) 


Before  his  "big  break"  in  landing  the 
permanent  role  of  Grayling  Dennis  on 
The  Brighter  Day,  Hal  Holbrook  spent 
five  years  trouping  through  45  of  the 
United  States  and  throughout  Canada  in 
the  husband-and-wife  acting  team  of  Hal 
and  Ruby  Holbrook.  The  Holbrooks' 
meanderings — via  station  wagon — began 
shortly  after  Hal's  graduation  from  Deni- 
son  University,  Ohio,  in  1948.  While  both 
were  students  there,  they  had  worked  up, 
under  the  tutelage  of  Prof.  Edward  A. 
Wright,  head  of  the  drama  department,  a 
repertoire  of  scenes  from  historical  plays 
and  original  sketches.  Thus  armed,  they 
took  to  the  road  until  daughter  Victoria 
was  born  in  1952  and  they  decided  to 
terminate  their  joint  acting-travelling  ca- 
reers. They  came  to  New  York  and  Hal 
has  since  been  seen  on  Rod  Brown  Of 
The  Rocket  Rangers  and  heard  in  The 
Second  Mrs.  Burton,  as  well  as  in  his  role 
as  the  son  of  Reverend  Dennis. 

Six-footer  Hal  met  his  wife  while  he 
was  serving  with  the  Army  Engineers.  He 
was  born  in  Cleveland  on  February  17, 
1925,  and  during  his  prep  school  years  at 
Indiana's  Culver  Military  Academy  and 
later  at  college,  he  was  a  track  star  and 
excelled  in  boxing  and  skiing. 

On  The  Trail 

Dear  Editor: 

What  is  the  theme  song  played  on  Pub- 
lic Defender?  H.W.,  Erie,  Pa. 

The  theme  for  Public  Defender  and  for 
the  other  programs  sponsored  by  Philip 
Morris — My  Little  Margie  on  radio  and 
The  Telltale  Clue  on  TV— is  "On  the 
Trail."  This  same  background  music  has 
been  used  by  Philip  Morris  for  all  the 
radio  and  TV  programs  it  has  sponsored 
during  the  past  fifteen  years.  It  is  part  of 
a  record  album  of  the  fourteen  most  pop- 
ular theme  songs,  recorded  under  the 
baton  of  Hugo  Winterhalter. 

(Continued  on  page  25) 


Hal  Holbrook 


A  dynamic  new  kind  of  television  news ...  a  pulsating  action 
film  story  of  the  "hot  spots"  of  world  affairs. 

Every  week  "EXCLUSIVE ...  by  Fulton  Lewis,  Jr."  presents: 
Exclusive  interviews  with  world  leaders! 
Exclusive  motion  pictures  taken  on-the-spot 

wherever  the  news  breaks! 
Exclusive  information  ...the  inside  story  as  only 

America's  most-heard  reporter  can  get  it. 

Check  your  newspaper  listing  for  time  and  channel  in  your 
area...  and  watch  "EXCLUSIVE ...  by  Fulton  Lewis,  Jr." 
every  week. 


Fulton  Lewis  interviews  Generalissimo 

\ 
Chiang  Kai-shek  and  Mrs.  Chiang 


A  General  Teleradlo  Presentation 


19 


/dreamed 
/was  queen  of  the  Westerns  in  my 

maidenfbrm  dm 

<s/" 


From  High  Noon  to  Midnight,  all  the  shootin's 
over  me . . .  the  most-wanted  figure 

in  the  wild  'n  woolly  West!  From  Abilene 
to  Santa  Fe,  the  most  fabulous  curves 

in  every  round-up  are  mine, 
because  I've  got  the  best-known 

brand  of  them  all . .  .Maidenform. 


The  dream  of  a  bra:  Maidenform's  Chansonette* 
in  nylon  taffeta,  acetate  satin, 
cotton  broadcloth  or  dacron 

and  cotton  batiste . . .  from  2.00. 


20 


What's  New 


"REO.  U.S.  PAT.  OFF.      OlSBB  MAIDEN   FORM   BRASSIERE  CO..  INC.  N.  V.  18      JEWELRY     KRAMER 


{Continued  from  page  5) 
musical  show,  and  if  Frank  does  sign  with 
any  network,  it  will  undoubtedly  be  ABC. 
He  is  very  loyal  to  the  head  man  there, 
Bob  Weitman,  who  gave  Frank  his  first 
big  solo  break  at  the  Paramount  Theater 
in  New  York. 

Joining  the  ranks  of  brand-new  parents 
last  January  were  Dickie  Van  Patten  and 
his  wife,  dancer  Patricia  Poole.  The  new- 
est Van  Patten  is  a  boy,  named  Richard 
Nels — the  Nels  in  honor  of  the  role  Dickie 
plays  on  Mama. 

The  Dick  Stabiles  are  expecting  their 
third  visit  from  the  stork.  Dick  is  Dean 
Martin's  and  Jerry  Lewis'  orchestra  con- 
ductor. And  the  Vic  Damone-Pier  Angeli 
stork  visit. is  scheduled  for  August. 

Congratulations  to  Pinky  Lee  and  the 
new  high  rating  of  his  popular  late-after- 
noon kiddie  show.  Though  his  show  has 
been  on  the  air  only  a  year,  Pinky  has 
become  just  about  the  hottest  personality 
with  the  small  fry. 

Hearty  congratulations  are  also  in  order 
for  Minetta  Ellen,  radio's  most  popular 
mother,  who  celebrated  her  80th  birthday 
on  January  17.  Minetta  has  played  Mother 
Barbour  in  One  Man's  Family  for  23  years 
and,  says  she,  "I  hope  to  stay  on  the  show 
that  many  more."  When  asked  what  she 
attributes  her  hale  and  hearty  80  years  to, 
the  alert  Miss  Ellen  replied:  "Keeping 
busy,  and  doing  things  for  my  friends. 
I've  written  one  cookbook,  and  I'm  about 
to  start  another." 

Dale  Evans'  second  book,  My  Spiritual 
Diary,  has  just  been  published  and  she 
and  her  husband,  Roy  Rogers,  are  doing 
everything  they  can  on  their  current  tour 
to  publicize  it.  The  proceeds  from  the 
book's  sale  will  go  toward  starting  a  new 
clinic  for  retarded  children  at  the  Chil- 
dren's Hospital  in  Los  Angeles. 

Pat  Carroll,  the  cute  comedienne  who 
has  appeared  on  some  of  the  NBC  televi- 
sion spectaculars  and  also  played  Red  But- 
tons' wife  in  his  early  shows,  has  wed  Lee 
Karsian,  of  the  William  Morris  Agency  in 
New  York. 

Also  doing  the  Mr.-and-Mrs.  bit  were 
Jack  Webb  and  his  long-time  heart-throb, 
Dorothy  Towne.  Though  they  had  said 
they  wanted  a  quiet  wedding,  their  mar- 
riage shindig  in  Chicago  was  anything  but. 
Jack  and  Dorothy  spent  most  of  their 
honeymoon  time  in  the  Windy  City  shop- 
ping at  the  huge  Merchandise  Mart  for 
furniture  for  their  new  California  home. 

Edward  G.  Robinson,  Jr.,  son  of  the  fa- 
mous actor,  is  trying  for  a  broadcasting 
career,  with  a  local  show  on  Station  KFVD 
in  Los  Angeles,  from  one  to  one-thirty  in 
the  morning.  He  has  a  variety  format,  and 
one  of  his  first  guests  was  his  father. 

Since  Joan  Weber's  recording  of  "Let  Me 
Go,  Lover"  became  an  overnight  smash 
after  being  heard  on  Studio  One,  and  sold 
over  a  million  copies,  all  the  record  com- 
panies and  song  publishers  have  been  try- 
ing to  figure  ways  and  means  of  getting 
their  tunes  played  on  the  big  dramatic 
shows.  Joan,  who  was  practically  an  un- 
known, has  been  swamped  with  offers 
from  night  clubs  all  over  the  country.  But 
so  far  she  is  working  close  to  New  York 
so  she  can  be  at  home  in  Paulsboro,  New 
Jersey,  with  her  husband,  George  Ver- 
faille,  and  her  infant  daughter,  Terry-Lyn. 
After  guesting  with  Perry  Como,  Joan  had 
many  television  offers,  and  may  even 
get  her  own  fifteen-minute  musical  show. 

Mulling  the  Mail: 

Mrs.  J.H.T.,  Kansas  City,  Mo.:  Former 
President  Harry  S.  Truman  was  never 
"canceled    out"    of    Edward    R.    Murrow's 


from  Coast  to  Coast 


Person  To  Person  TV  show.  His  originally 
scheduled  appearances  were  only  post- 
poned, the  first  time  because  Mrs.  Truman 
wanted  to  do  a  bit  of  redecorating  on  their 
home,  and  the  second  time  because  of  the 
former  Chief  Executive's  illness  and  sur- 
gery. .  .  .  Mrs.  D.R.,  Chicago,  111.:  No, 
Mario  Lanza  is  not  scheduled  to  appear  on 
any  regular  television  show  in  the  near 
future,  so  far  as  I  know.  However,  he  is 
set  to  do  a  movie  for  Warner  Bros. — his 
first  since  his  break-up  with  M-G-M.  .  .  . 
Miss  J.R.,  Sterling,  ill.,  and  others  who 
asked  about  Julius  La  Rosa:  Julie  is  defi- 
nitely not  going  back  to  the  Arthur  God- 
frey show.  He  is  doing  fine  with  his  theater 
appearances  and  his  records.  .  .  .  And  to  all 
of  you  who  wrote  from  just  about  every- 
where asking  about  Christine  McGuire,  of 
the  McGuire  Sisters,  and  her  children:  She 
does  have  two  boys,  seven  and  twelve,  and 
they  are  her  sons  by  her  first  marriage. 
She  and  her  second  husband  do  not  have 
any  children.  And,  as  to  her  age,  accord- 
ing to  the  official  CBS  biography,  Chris- 
tine was  born  July  30,  1928.  .  .  .  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  L.R.,  Dallas,  Texas:  The  ages  of  the 
octogenarian  panel  on  Life  Begins  At 
Eighty  are:  Georgiana  Carhart,  89;  Fred 
Stein,  86;  Thomas  Clark,  83;  and  Mrs. 
Helen  Wagner,  82.  .  .  .  Miss  S.  F.,  Nor- 
folk, Va.:  Robin  Morgan,  who  plays  Dag- 
mar  on  the  Mama  TV  show  was  thirteen 
years  old  on  January  29.  .  .  .  Such  a  flood 
of  letters  about  Virginia  Dwyer,  formerly 
of  the  cast  of  The  Secret  Storm:  Virginia 
left  the  show  in  order  to  take  a  role  in 
The  Road  Of  Life,  and  it  was  impossible 
for  her  to  do  both.  .  .  .  Many  readers  also 
wrote  about  Nancy  Coleman,  asking  why 
she  was  no  longer  in  Valiant  Lady.  Nancy 
had  to  give  up  the  television  show  be- 
cause of  her  appearance  in  the  new  Broad- 
way show  "The  Desperate  Hours,"  which 
required  her  to  leave  New  York  for  the 
out-of-town  tryouts  of  the  new  play.  Flora 
Campbell  took  over  Nancy's  part  in  VaZi- 
ant  Lady. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  .  .  .  ? 

Hal  LeRoy,  the  well-known  dancer,  who 
has  appeared  on  television  from  time  to 
time?  Hal  is  all  set  to  play  Dagwood  in 
the  proposed  Blondie  TV  series,  opposite 
Pamela  Britton  in  the  title  role,  but  so  far 
the  show  hasn't  been  scheduled.  There 
are  several  interested  sponsors  but  no  good 
network  time  available.  Meanwhile,  Hal 
has  been  making  a  few  night  club  appear- 
ances and  limiting  his  other  activities 
pending  the  start  of  Blondie. 

Bert  Lytell,  at  one  time  emcee  of  the 
Philco  TV  Playhouse  and  Father  Barbour 
on  One  Man's  Family?  Bert  passed  away, 
at  the  age  of  sixty-nine,  last  fall  in  New 
York  City,  following  an  operation.  He 
was  one  of  the  pioneer  performers  on  tele- 
vision, following  a  distinguished  career  in 
films  and  the  theater.  His  widow  is  Grace 
Menken,  the  actress. 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of 
your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or 
wonder  what  has  happened  to  someone 
on  radio  or  television,  drop  me  a  line — 
Miss  Jill  Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205 
East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.,  and 
I'll  try  my  best  to  find  out  for  you  and 
put  the  information  in  the  column.  Un- 
fortunately, we  don't  have  space  to  an- 
swer all  questions,  so  I  try  to  cover  those 
personalities  and  shows  about  whom  we 
receive  the  most  inquiries.  Sorry,  no 
personal  answers. 


-L     PATTERNS     MAOe     I.N     U      S. 


MAY    QUEE 


DANISH    PRINCESS 


^  \ 


A  longer  lasting 
bloom  is  on 


SPRING    GARDEN 


BRIGHT    FUTURE 


the  world's  most  precious  silverplate 

Only  beautiful  Holmes  &  Edwards  gives  you  an  extra  helping  of  sterling  inlaid 
at  backs  of  bowls  and  handles  of  most-used  pieces* It  costs  a  little  more  .  .  .  but 
think  of  the  extra  years  of  silver-glow.  52-piece  s%  for  8,  and  chest.  $84.50. 


I  \v   Tivo  blocks  of  sterling  inlaid  at  backs  oj  bowls 

and  handles  promise  longer,  lovelier  sih-er  life. 

HOLMES  &  EDA\MIDS 

STERLING     INLAID    SILVERPLATE 

MADE    ONLY    BY    T  II  K    I  NTER  N  AT  1  ()  N  A  1.   SILVER    COMPAN1 


21 


N  O  W,  there  is  : 
hair  spray  that  holds  your 
softly  .  .  .  naturally! 


never  a  stiff, 

artificial  look 


4fi^Cwft-  spray  net* 

You  may  turn  up  your  pretty  nose  at  ordinary  hair  sprays 
but  not  at  Helene  Curtis  SPRAY  NET! 

If  you've  often  wished  for  a  hair  fixative  that  really  kept  your  hair 
in  place  all  day  ...  if  you've  often  wished  for  a  hair  spray  that  held 
your  wave  softly,  naturally  without  ever  drying  it .  .  . 

Stop  wishing — here  is  the  hair  spray  made  to  order  for  you! 
From  morning  to  night, 
Helene  Curtis  spray  net  holds 

your  hair  in  place,  regardless  of  "- 

wind  or  humidity  .  .  .  sets  your 
pin  curls  for  hurry-up  hair-do's 
.  .  .  keeps  wisps  and  stragglers 
right  in  line.  And  it  does  it  more 
softly  than  you  ever  dreamed 
possible,  thanks  to  exclusive 
Spray-On  Lanolin  Lotion. 

Do  try  it — you'll  wonder 
how  a  spray  so  "like  nothing  on 
your  hair"  can  do  so  much! 


No  drooping  waves  on 

rainy  days,  no  flyaway  curls 
in  the  wind  with  spray  net  ! 


SUPER    SOFT    OR    REGULAR 

Giant  Economy  Size  $1.89  Plus  tax 


22 


When  you're  late  for  a 
date,  set  your  pin  curls  in 
minutes  with  spray  net  ! 


•T.M.REO.  U.S.PAT  .OFF. 


pegs*, 

4) 


Now  there  are  two  types  of  SPRAY  NET: 
Regular  and  the  new  Super  Soft  SPRAY  NET1 

If  your  hair  is  "baby-fine"  or  you 
like  the  casual  look,  new  super  soft 
spray  net,  without  lacquer,  will  be  beau- 
tifully right.  For  hair  that's  thick  and 
harder- to-manage,  for  elaborate  hair-do's, 
choose  regular  spray  net,  the  favorite 
of  millions! 


Only  Helene  Curtis  SPRAY  NET  contains  Spray-On  Lanolin  Lotion 


DAYTIME 


(Continued  from  page  14) 


HAW  KENS  FALLS  Politics  at  the  hos- 
pital threatens  the  security  of  Dr.  Floyd 
Corey  and  his  wife,  as  Fioyd,  no  longer 
chief  of  the  Board,  considers  an  offer  from 
a  hospital  in  another  town.  It's  a  fine 
town  and  a  fine  offer — but  neither  of  the 
Coreys  wants  to  admit  how  hard  it  is  to 
think  of  going  even  seventy-five  miles 
away  from  Hawkins  Falls.  Is  it  a  mistake 
to  allow  one's  roots  to  go  so  deep?  Or  is 
it  the  best  way  to  live?    NBC-TV. 

HILLTOP  HOUSE  Long  before  she  ever 
met  Reed,  Julie  had  dedicated  her  life  to 
helping  children,  and,  as  supervisor  of  the 
Glendale  orphanage,  Hilltop  House,  had 
made  a  real  home  for  children  who  were 
temporarily  or  permanently  without  one. 
Her  happy  marriage  to  Reed  never  inter- 
fered with  her  work,  and  she  never  an- 
ticipated that  one  day  she  might  have  to 
take  a  long  look  at  the  two  most  important 
things  in  her  life.  CBS  Radio. 

JOYCE  JORDAN,  M.D.  In  her  anxiety 
to  get  the  best  possible  health  program  for 
the  town's  children,  Joyce  Jordan  takes  on 
some  powerful  opponents,  knowing  her 
very  career  may  be  attacked.  Will  lawyer 
Mike  Hill  be  an  enemy  or  an  ally  ...  or 
something  neither  he  nor  Joyce  at  first 
imagines?  Not  even  Mike's  engagement 
can  keep  him  from  responding  to  the  fact 
that  Joyce  is  not  only  a  dynamic  crusader 
but  a  fascinating  woman.    NBC  Radio. 

JUST  PLAIN  BILL  The  dreadful  threat 
of  the  murder  charge  that  hung  over 
Nancy's  head  has  been  cleared  away,  but 
Bill  Davidson  sees  a  different  sort  of  threat 
taking  shape  as  his  daughter's  gratitude 
toward  the  clever  young  lawyer  who  saved 
her  deepens  into  a  more  intense  interest. 
Is  it  the  mystery  surrounding  Peter  Dyke 
Hampton  that  intrigues  Nancy?  Or  is  it 
the  man  himself?  How  can  Bill  help? 
NBC  Radio. 

LORENZO  JONES  Several  times  since 
Belle  found  Lorenzo  again,  he  has  seemed 
on  the  very  verge  of  regaining  his  lost 
memory,  and  she  lives  for  the  day  when 
he  will  at  last  recall  their  marriage  and 
recognize  her  as  the  wife  with  whom  he 
was  once  so  happy.  But,  as  she  concen- 
trates on  helping  Lorenzo,  Belle  leaves 
herself  an  easy  victim  to  the  plans  of 
Phoebe  Larkins  and  Roger  Caxton — plans 
that  might  include  murder.   NBC  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Paul  Raven's  first  wife 
was  determined  to  ruin  any  chance  for 
happiness  he  might  find  in  his  marriage  to 
Vanessa,  but  the  trouble  between  Paul  and 
Van  is  not  entirely  Judith  Raven's  fault. 
Van  is  deeply  upset  when  Paul,  instead  of 
turning  to  her  for  help  and  comfort,  mis- 
takenly tries  to  protect  her  by  putting 
barriers  between  them.  Will  Van's  sister 
Meg  become  Judith's  unknowing  tool? 
CBS-TV. 

Mil  PERKINS  Loyalty  to  her  old  friend 
Alf  Pierce  let  Ma  in  for  one  of  the  most 
distressing  experiences  of  her  life  as 
trustee  for  Alf's  money.  Young  Billy 
Pierce's  scheming  wife,  Laura,  finally  had 
forced  Ma  to  resign  the  trust,  but  Ma 
could  not  stand  by  and  see  the  Pierce  Milk 
Company  ruined  for  Laura's  benefit.    But 


DIARY 


when  Ma  buys  the  milk  company  she  has 
no  thought  of  the  difficulties  that  lie  ahead. 
CBS  Radio. 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  Leslie  Northurst's 
audacious  plot  is  so  well  prepared  that 
even  Sunday  can  see  why  he  hoped  to  be 
able  to  defraud  her  husband,  Lord  Henry 
Brinthrope,  out  of  the  title  and  estate  she 
knows  to  be  rightfully  his.  But  before 
Leslie  can  be  exposed  he  is  killed,  and  by 
his  very  death  becomes  a  far  greater  dan- 
ger than  the  Brinthropes  have  ever  faced, 
for  it  is  Lord  Henry  himself  who  is  sus- 
pected of  the  murder.    CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  YOUNG'S  FAMILY  The  oil 

well  on  which  Father  Young  counted  so 
much  has  brought  plenty  of  trouble  to  the 
family,  but  little  else  so  far.  The  immi- 
nent destruction  of  Grayson's  structure  of 
lies — the  lies  with  which  he  thought  he 
had  trapped  Mr.  Young — seems  less  im- 
portant now  than  the  family's  desperate 
efforts  to  save  Carter  from  destroying  him- 
self under  the  mistaken  belief  that  he  has 
killed  a  man.  Will  they  be  too  late? 
NBC  Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  From  the  beginning  of 
his  acquaintance  with  the  distracted  young 
mother  Lois,  it  is  apparent  to  Perry  Mason 
that  blackmail  is  behind  her  anguish.  But 
Lois,  a  secretary,  hasn't  the  kind  of  money 
to  interest  a  blackmailer.  Is  it  her  job 
with  an  important  firm  that  holds  the  key 
to  her  value?  The  further  Perry  goes  with 
Lois's  case,  the  more  he  suspects  about  the 
kind  of  game  in  which  she  has  become  a 
pawn.    CBS   Radio. 

PORTIA  FACES  LIFE  With  the  help 
of  his  wife  Portia,  Walter  Manning  tries  to 
use  intelligence  and  common  sense  to  turn 
his  romantic  interest  in  young  Dorrie 
Blake  into  the  casual  friendship  it  must 
be  if  many  fives  are  not  to  be  wrecked. 
But  a  chance  to  blacken  Walter's  name  is 
not  likely  to  be  overlooked  by  Ralph 
Staley.  Will  he  do  the  job  so  well  that 
even  Portia  is  confused?  What  role  will 
Dorrie's  ex-husband  play?    CBS-TV. 

THE  RIGHT  TO  HAPPINESS  When 
Carolyn  Nelson  befriended  Sherry  Wayne, 
she  was  aware  that  she  was  getting  in- 
volved, as  her  husband  Miles  warned  her, 
in  a  dangerous  situation.  Sherry's  death, 
and  the  will  in  which  she  made  Carolyn 
her  beneficiary,  prove  Miles  was  more 
right  than  he  knew,  for  Sherry's  husband 
has  his  own  plans  for  the  money.  But 
Carolyn  is  more  worried  over  a  possible 
rift  with  Miles.   NBC  Radio. 

THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  At  last  Jim  sees 
the  pattern  behind  Sybil  Overton's  actions 
as  his  wif e  Jocelyn's  citizenship  comes  un- 
der question.  Under  suspended  sentence 
for  the  so-called  kidnapping  into  which 
she  was  trapped  by  Sybil,  Jocelyn  could 
be  refused  re-entry  into  the  country.  But 
Jim  has  decided  that  it  is  time  for  some- 
thing else  to  come  under  serious  investi- 
gation— and  that  something  is  Sybil's  san- 
ity.   CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

Brett   Chapman's   desertion   of  Helen   has 

plunged   her   into   dejection   she   will   not 

{Continued  on  page  24) 


brfeot  Fit 


any  way  you  loot  at  it ! 


JYewPkytex 


Bra 


OF  ELASTIC  AND  NYLON 


"Custom-contoured"  for  perfect  fit  .  .  . 
no  matter  what  size  or  in-between  size 
you  are/  The  secret  is  in  the  exclusive 
elasti-side  panel  that  gently  self-adjusts 
to  your  measurements.  The  drama  is  in 
the  nylon  cups  that  lift  and  lure  into  the 
high,  round  look  of  Paris.  The  magic  is 
the  Playtex  Living  Bra  .  .  .  the  most 
fitting,  most  beautifying,  fastest  selling 
bra  in  America/  Try  it . . .  you'll  love  it/ 


Look  for  the  PLAYTEX1  LIVING*  BRA*  in  the 

heavenly  blue  package  at  department  stores  and  spe- 
cialty shops  everywhere.  In  gleaming  WHITE,  wonder- 
fully washable— without  ironing/  Sizes  32A-40C  $3.95 

tTrademark  »U.  S.  A.  and  foreign  patents  pending 

HQ55  International  Latex  Corporation  . .  PLAYTEX  PARK . .  Dover  Del 
In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd.  . .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont. 


23 


"I  may  not  ever  tell  you  this  in  so  many 
words  (we  parents  are  die-hards,  you 
know),  but  in  my  heart  I'm  asking  you 
to  forgive  me  for  doubting  your  ma- 
turity, your  wisdom,  your  discrimination. 

"Too  often  when  you've  brought  me 
some  new  discovery  of  yours  with  en- 
thusiasm and  eagerness,  I'm  afraid  I've 
treated  you  like  a  child.  By  leaning  so 
heavily  on  'mother  knows- best,'  I've 
failed  to  realize  there  may  be  times  when 
daughter  knows  best. 

"I  haven't  been  sympathetic  about 
your  interest  in  Tampax.  As  a  matter  of 
fact,  I  wouldn't  even  listen  to  you.  And 
of  course,  it  would  take  an  outsider  to  set 
me  straight .  .  .  our  next-door  neighbor. 

"I  happened  to  be  over  there  when 
Mary's  daughter  came  in  and  asked  if 
she  could  borrow  some  of  'mother's 
Tampax.'  That  was  a  surprise — both  of 
them  using  it!  Well,  I  started  talking  to 
Mary  about  sanitary  protection  and 
found  out  lots  of  things  I'd  refused  to 
listen  to  before. 

"First  of  all,  Tampax  was  invented  by 
a  doctor.  That  was  assurance  enough  for 
me!  And  then  I  just  had  to  concede  that 
internal  sanitary  protection  does  have  a 
lot  of  advantages  over  the  other  kind. 
Being  so  easy  to  dispose  of,  for  example. 
And  preventing  odor  from  forming.  No 
chafing,  no  irritation — that  must  be  won- 
derful! Then,  too,  I  hadn't  realized  that 
you  can  wear  it  in  the  bath. 

"What   I'm   conceding  most  of  all, 

however,  is  this:  there  are  lots  of  decisions 

a  girl  or  a  woman  must  make  for  herself. 

v       The  Tampax  decision  is  one  of  them." 

R        Tampax  is  on  sale  at  drug  or  notion  counters. 

Choice  of   3   absorbencies:   Regular,   Super, 

Junior.  Tampax  Incorporated,  Palmer,  Mass. 

24 


DAYTIME  DIARY 


{Continued  from  page  23) 


admit  even  to  her  dearest  friend.  For  the 
first  time  she  even  doubts  that  Gil  Whit- 
ney will  win  his  freedom  from  the  mar- 
riage into  which  Cynthia  trapped  him, 
though  Helen  still  believes  in  the  love  she 
and  Gil  have  never  forgotten.  How  will 
Cynthia's  cousin,  Gwen  Sewell,  affect  the 
future  Gil  hopes  to  share  with  Helen? 
CBS  Radio. 

ROSEMARY  The  Springdale  Boys  Club, 
sponsored  by  Bill  and  Rosemary  Roberts, 
has  done  a  lot  of  good  work,  and  the  mis- 
guided behavior  of  young  Lonnie  at  first 
appears  to  be  something  they  can  all  take 
in  stride.  But  proving  Lonnie  innocent  of 
the  serious  accusation  is  neither  easily 
done  nor  easily  forgotten.  Can  Bill's  en- 
emies in  town  take  advantage  of  Lonnie's 
tragic  mistake?  How  can  Rosemary  help? 
CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH      FOR      TOMORROW      As 

Joanne  Barron's  friends  fight  desperately 
for  her  acquittal,  little  Mr.  Higbee  con- 
gratulates himself  on  having  framed  her 
so  successfully  that  the  truth  about  "Hazel 
Tate's"  murder  will  never  be  known.  But 
his  arrogance  blinds  him  to  the  fact  that 
inch  by  inch  his  camouflage  is  being  torn 
away.  Even  the  prosecution  is  aware  of 
his  existence.  Will  the  final  blow  come 
from  one  of  his  own  henchmen?  CBS-TV. 

THE  SECOND  MRS.  RURTON  Does 
Mother  Burton  really  want  to  break  up 
her  daughter  Marcia's  marriage  to  Lew 
Archer?  She  would  deny  the  accusation 
indignantly,  but  unless  something  stops 
her  she  may  be  going  to  do  just  that  with 
her  persistent  refusal  to  let  either  of  her 
children  live  an  independent  life.  With 
the  sagacious  help  of  his  wife  Terry,  Stan 
Burton  has  almost  cut  the  silver  cord. 
Will  they  be  called  on  to  help  Marcia? 
CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  When  Peter 
Ames  chose  Ellen  Tyrell  instead  of  her 
sister  Pauline,  their  marriage  seemed  only 
a  temporary  obstacle  to  Pauline's  twisted 
mind.  But  when,  on  Ellen's  death,  Peter 
still  refused  to  turn  to  her,  Pauline's  bit- 
terness turned  savagely  against  Jane 
Edwards,  the  housekeeper  who  rapidly  be- 
came so  important  to  Peter  and  his  be- 
reaved children.  Can  Pauline  enlist  the 
town's  aid  to  break  up  Peter's  family? 
CBS-TV. 

STELLA  DALLAS  The  happiness  of  her 
daughter  Laurel  is  the  most  important 
thing  in  Stella's  life,  and  she  refuses  to 
believe  that  Laurel  can  find  it  by  ending 
her  marriage  to  Dick  Grosvenor.  Despite 
the  insane  scheme  concocted  by  wealthy 
Ada  Dexter  to  get  Laurel  married  to  her 
son,  Stanley  Warrick,  Stella  is  certain 
that  not  even  Ada's  money  can  come  be- 
tween two  who  love  each  other.  Has 
Laurel  begun  to  doubt  that  love?  NBC 
Radio. 

THIS  MS  NORA  DRAKE  Wyn  Robin- 
son's cagey  effort  to  stay  one  step  ahead 
of  discovery  finally  climaxes  with  a  visit 
from  Fred  Molina,  who  at  last  knows  that 
she  has  been  behind  the  attempts  to  kill 
him  and  Nora.  Fred  finds  himself  con- 
fronting not  Wyn   alone   but  Dan   Welch, 


Ricki  Camras  and  Lee  King,  and  in  the 
ensuing  brawl  is  so  severely  wounded  that 
he  barely  gets  back  to  his  office  before 
collapsing.  Does  Nora  face  stark  heart- 
break?    CBS  Radio. 

VALIANT  LADY  After  the  lonely 
months  of  widowhood,  Helen  Emerson 
knows  she  is  on  the  edge  of  new  happi- 
ness when  pilot  Chris  Kendall  admits  he 
loves  her.  But  Chris'  past  suddenly 
comes  between  them — not  so  much  the 
fact  that  he  has  a  wife  in  a  mental  home 
and  an  unhappy  young  son,  but  the  fact 
that  he  kept  them  secret  from  Helen.  Can 
she  put  her  trust  in  a  man  who  was  not 
completely  open  from  the  beginning?  CBS- 
TV. 

WENDY  WARREN  AND  THE  NEWS 

A  new  life,  complete  with  new  problems, 
opens  for  Wendy  as  she  fulfills  an  old 
dream  and  becomes  editor  of  a  small 
town  paper.  The  keen  young  assistant 
who  has  small  regard  for  women  in  au- 
thority— the  interesting  doctor  who,  like 
Wendy,  remembers  a  marriage  ended  by 
death  .  .  .  how  will  they  figure  in  the  fu- 
ture to  which  Wendy  looks  forward  reso- 
lutely, hoping  for  contentment  but  not 
expecting  joy?     CBS  Radio. 

WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES  Joan  Davis' 
deep  affection  for  people  and  her  under- 
standing of  human  nature  have  always 
endowed  her  with  keen  insight  into  their 
actions.  But  her  association  with  Dr. 
Davon  has  introduced  her  to  the  kind  of 
mental  and  emotional  problems  that  or- 
dinary people  either  do  not  experience  or 
fail  to  recognize.  Will  this  help  her  if  she 
or  someone  she  loves  should  become  en- 
tangled in  just  such  a  problem?  ABC 
Radio. 

THE  WOMAN  IN  MY  HOUSE  When 
Carolyn  Wilson  got  married,  Jeff  Carter's 
mother  watched  him  closely  for  some  sign 
that  he  regretted  losing  her.  She  had  to 
content  herself  with  very  little,  for,  if  Jeff 
had  really  been  considering  giving  up  his 
bachelor  status  for  Carolyn,  he  concealed 
his  chagrin  completely.  But  now  it  ap- 
pears that  Carolyn's  marriage  has  not 
worked  out.  Will  Jeff  accept  this  as  a 
second  chance?     NBC  Radio. 

YOUNG  DR.  MALONE  It  is  plain 
enough  to  Jerry  that  Tracy's  past  holds  a 
secret  she  cannot  bring  herself  to  share. 
Will  this,  plus  the  resentment  of  Jerry's 
young  daughter  Jill,  be  more  than  enough 
to  cloud  this  marriage  from  which  Jerry 
and  Tracy  hope  so  much?  Meanwhile, 
Marcia  Sutton's  careful  scheme  to  make 
her  husband,  Dr.  Ted  Mason,  top  man  at 
Dineen  Clinic  reaches  explosion  point  as 
Ted  shows  his  own  hand.     CBS  Radio. 

YOUNG    W I  ODER    DROWN    In    her 

desperate  search  for  happiness,  Ellen 
Brown  finds  herself  suddenly  caught  be- 
tween two  threatening  forces.  For  reasons 
that  emerge  from  a  mysterious  past,  Ger- 
ald Forsyth  is  determined  to  prevent  her 
marriage  to  his  brother  Michael.  And 
Millicent  Loring  fears  that  the  revelation 
of  her  incomplete  divorce  will  nullify  her 
marriage  to  Anthony,  freeing  him  to  re- 
turn to  Ellen.  NBC  Radio. 


information   booth 

(Continued  from  page   18) 


Billy  Gray 


Teen  On  TV 

Dear  Editor: 

I  would  like  some  information  on  Billy 

Gray,    who    plays    Bud    in    the    situation 

comedy,  Father  Knows  Best,  on  CBS-TV. 

Where  can  I  write  for  a  picture  of  him? 

S.S.,  Chicago,  III. 

A  movie  and  TV  veteran  at  17,  Billy 
Gray  had  no  "early"  acting  ambitions — 
although  his  mother  and  younger  brother 
were  both  on  the  stage.  But  one  day,  Billy 
went  to  see  his  brother  Freddy  in  a  play 
and  an  agent  asked  if  he'd  like  to  work 
in  pictures.  Billy  was  agreeable,  if  not  en- 
thusiastic and,  from  his  first  bit  part  in 
"Our  Odd  Car,"  he  went  on  to  important 
roles  in  such  films  as  "On  Moonlight 
Bay,"  "The  Man  Who  Came  Back,"  "The 
Girl  Next  Door,"  "By  the  Light  of  the 
Silvery  Moon,"  and  his  latest,  "All  I  De- 
sire." 

Born  in  Los  Angeles  on  January  13, 
1938,  Billy  is  now  a  student  at  Universal 
High  School.  After  school  and  TV  hours, 
Billy  likes  to  overhaul  motors,  is  an  en- 
thusiastic deep-sea  and  spear  fisherman, 
an  expert  swimmer  and  water-skier,  and 
an  occasional  baby  sitter  for  his  younger 
brother  Freddy.  For  a  picture,  write  to 
him  c/o  Father  Knows  Best,  CBS-TV, 
6121  Sunset  Blvd.,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested  in  joining,  write 
to  the  address  given — not  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror. 

Bets  Pets  (Betty  White),  c/o  Jeanie 
Calvin,  761  Illinois,  Pomona,  Calif. 

The  Simminettes  (Lu  Ann  Simms),  c/o 
Jane  Leone,  121  Fage  Ave.,  Syracuse,  5, 
N.  Y. 

Liberace  Fan  Club,  c/o  Linda  Maitzen, 
6606  W.  Foster  Ave.,  Chicago  31,  111. 

Donald  O'Connor  Fan  Club,  c/o  Susan 
Webster,  105  Tenth  Ave.,  Charles  City, 
Iowa. 

(Continued  on  page  27) 


is  there  an  air  ot  ireshness 
about  you . . .  always  v 


...are  you  really  lovely  to  love? 


A  sweet,  appealing  air  of  freshness 
...  is  yours,  always  .  .  .  when  you  use 
Fresh  Cream  Deodorant. 

Fresh  keeps  you  free  from  embarrassing 
underarm  odor  and  stains.  Underarms  are 
dry!  For  Fresh  contains  the  most  highly 
effective  perspiration-checking  ingredient 
now  known  to  science. 

When  you  open  the  Fresh  jar  you'll 


discover  ...  its  delicate  fragrance  ...  its 
whiteness,  its  whipped  cream  smoothness. 
Not  a  trace  of  stickiness.  Not  a  trace  of 
greasiness.  Gentle  to  skin,  too. 

For  an  air  of  freshness  use  Fresh  Cream 
Deodorant  every  day — be  sure  you  are 
lovely  to  love,  always. 

FRESH    is  a  registered  trademark  of  Pharma-Craft  Cor- 
poration. Also  manufactured  and  distributed  in  Canada 


a  "Fresh"  girl  is 
always  lovely  to  love 


25 


Jean  Vann  and  Bruce  McGorrill 
are  having  a  wonderful  time  sharing 
with  Portland  viewers  the  pleasures  of 


Living  Down  East 


Since  last  December,  Station 
WCSH-TV's  viewers  in  and 
around  Portland,  Maine,  have  been 
treated  to  a  unique  program — dedi- 
cated just  to  them — hiving  Down 
East.  Each  Monday,  Wednesday  and 
Friday  at  noon,  hostess  Jean  Vann 
and  host  Bruce  McGorrill  are  brim- 
ming over  with  entertaining  and  ex- 
citing items  ...  a  new  shopping  idea, 
the  latest  news,  a  chat  with  an 
interesting  personality — everything 
and  anything  pertaining  to  life  down 
East. 

One  of  the  nicest  aspects  about 
Living  Down  East  is  that  Hostess 
Jean  and  Host  Bruce  are  so  genuine- 
ly pleased  to  be  down-Easters  them- 
selves. Originally,  Jean  came  from 
Newburgh,  New  York,  and  was  a 
much-travelled  young  lady  before 
settling  in  Portland.  She  was  edu- 
cated at  Rollins  College,  Florida, 
Middlebury  College,  Vermont,  and 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Dur- 


ing World  War  II,  Jean  served  as  an 
assistant  publications  chief  for  the 
Arctic,  Desert  and  Tropics  branch  of 
the  Air  Force.  And,  for  five  years, 
she  lived  in  South  America.  Since 
her  switch  to  Portland  and  TV,  Jean 
has  been  sitting  on  a  cloud  of  happi- 
ness over  her  new  home  and  new 
work.  Jean  lives  in  an  apartment 
with  her  cocker  spaniel,  Lindy  Lou. 
"Someday,"  says  Jean,  "if  a  guest 
doesn't  appear  for  the  show,  I'm 
going  to  have  Lindy  Lou  as  guest!" 

As  for  Bruce  McGorrill,  he's  been 
a  down-Easter  all  his  life.  Born  in 
Portland,  educated  at  Bowdoin  Col- 
lege, Bruce  lives  with  his  parents  in 
an  old  Colonial  home  on  the  ocean 
shore.  Off-camera  he  busies  himself 
with  civic  work,  acting,  skiing, 
golfing,  sailing  and  tennis.  And,  says 
he,  "I'm  content  to  enjoy  life  as  it 
goes  by,  living  down  East." 

Both  Jean  and  Bruce  are  having  a 
wonderful  time  sharing  with  WCSH- 


TV  audiences  the  pleasurable  aspects 
of  Living  Down  East.  One  feature  of 
the  show  they  particularly  enjoy 
came  about  after  author  John  Gould 
was  their  guest.  Mr.  Gould  had  ap- 
peared with  a  box  containing  what 
he  called  "conversation  pieces" — in- 
teresting items  to  talk  about  when 
there  was  a  lull  in  the  conversation. 
Later,  when  Jean  and  Bruce  invited 
viewers  to  send  in  their  own  conver- 
sation pieces,  the  response  was  so 
great,  the  idea  became  a  regular  fea- 
ture on  the  show.  Some  items  dis- 
cussed have  been  an  old  metal  pick 
used  in  the  late  1800's  for  opening 
milk  cans,  and  a  mechanism  from  an 
old-fashioned  haying  machine.  All 
in  all,  Living  Down  East  has  proved 
to  be  a  delightful  combination  of  en- 
tertainment and  instruction.  Those 
who  haven't  should  tune  in  and  see 
for  themselves  why  so  many  people 
are  happy  and  proud  to  be  called 
down-East  Yankees. 


26 


Settled   comfortably  in   WSCH-TV's  pine-paneled  room,  Bruce  and  Jean  had  the   honor  of   presenting  that 
noted   down-Easter,   the   late    Robert   P.   Tristram  Coffin,   Pulitzer   Prize-winning  poet  and   Bowdoin   professor. 


Information   Booth 

[Continued) 

Road  Of  Life 

Dear  Editor: 

I  gretc  up  listening  to  The  Road  Of  Life 
on  radio  and  now  we  are  getting  it  on 
TV!  The  voices  sound  so  like  those  on  the 
radio  version.  Could  you  tell  me  whether 
the  players  are  the  sa?ne  and  who  the 
players  are? 

G.C.,  Austin,  Texas 

Both  the  cast  and  the  story-line  on  the 
CBS  Radio  and  CBS-TV  versions  of  The 
Road  Of  Life  are  the  same.  The  players 
are:  Don  MacLaughlin  as  Dr.  Jim  Brent; 
Virginia  Dwyer  as  Jocelyn  Brent;  Bar- 
bara Becker  as  Sybil  Overton  Fuller: 
Harry  Holcombe  as  Malcolm  Overton: 
Bill  Lipton  as  John  Brent;  Elizabeth  Law- 
rence as  Francie  Brent;  Michael  Kane  as 
Armand  Monet;  Elspeth  Eric  as  Lil 
Monet;   and  Hollis  Irving  as  Pearl  Snow. 

Video  Ranger 

Dear  Editor: 

Could  you  tell  me  about  Don  Hastings, 
who  plays  the  Video  Ranger  on  Captain 
Video?  Where  can  I  send  for  a  picture  of 
him? 

E.C.,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

Handsome  Don  Hastings,  who  has  been 
playing  the  Video  Ranger  on  Captain  Video 
for  five  years,  launched  his  career  at  the 
age  of  six  when  he  wandered  into  a 
broadcasting  studio  to  listen  to  his  brother 
Bob  sing.  The  director  asked  Don  if  he'd 
like  to  try  to  sing  also.  The  result  was  a 
debut  on  a  children's  radio  show.  Coast 
To  Coast  On  A  Bus.  At  seven,  Don  toured 
with  "Life  With  Father."  later  appeared 
in  "I  Remember  Mama,"  and  a  number  of 
other  plays,  "not  all  of  them  hits."  For  a 
year  he  had  a  lead  role  in  "A  Young 
Man's  Fancy,"  then  appeared  in  Tennessee 
Williams'  "Summer  and  Smoke"  (Don's 
fondest  stage  memory).  On  radio,  he  has 
been  heard  on  many  top  programs,  includ- 
ing Cavalcade  Of  America,  Theater  Guild 
On  The  Air,  Studio  One,  Hilltop  House, 
My  True  Story.  He  debuted  on  video  in 
1946  in  The  Magic  Cottage. 

Today,  at  21,  Don  lives  with  his  parents 
in  St.  Albans,  Long  Island,  New  York.  Don 
enjoys  deep-sea  fishing  with  his  father, 
builds  ship  models,  has  a  dog  named 
Geronimo,  and  plays  league  baseball  for 
the  Cambria  Heights  Mohawks  on  summer 
weekends.  You  can  write  to  him  c/o  Cap- 
tain Video,  Du  Mont,  515  Madison  Ave.. 
New  York  22,  N.  Y. 


FOR    YOUR    INFORMATION— If 

there's  something  you  want  to  know  about 
radio  and  television,  write  to  Information 
Booth,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd 
St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if 
we  can,  provided  your  question  is  of  gen- 
eral interest.  Answers  will  appear  in  this 
column — but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to 
your  letter,  and  specify  whether  your  ques- 
tion concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Concealing  drops 
glorify  your  ( 
complexion 
instantly! 


Weetmores  of 
Hollywood  prove 

the  original  liquid  make-up 

best  for  YOU! 


HOLLYWOOD^  most  famous  make-up  artists 

with  years  of  experience  in  beautifying  stars  .  .  . 
have  created  the  most  nattering  make-up  for  your 
personal  close-ups  all  day.  all  evening  .  .  .  proved 
best  in  giant-screen  close-ups  of  stars!  For  all  types 

of  skin,  get  magical  concealing  TRU-GLO 
in  your  perfect  shade,  at  all  variety  and  drug 
stores.  Guaranteed  no  finer  quality  at  any  price. 


Super-Size 
Swivel  Case 


Standard 
Case 


nothing  can  be  redder  than  this  NEW  COLOR 

REDDEST  RED 

NEW  WESTMORE  HOLLYWOOD 

O  Kiss-Tested  Lipstick 
Proved  BEST  in  movie  close-ups. 
Smear-Resistant.  Non-Drying. 

*Prices  plus  tax.  Slightly  higher  in  Canada. 
HOUSE  OF  WESTMORE,  INC.,  NEW  YORK    •    HOLLYWOOD 


27 


turta 


Lustre -Creme 
Shampoo... 


"Yes,  I  use  Lustre-Creme 
Shampoo,"  says  Jane  Wyman. 
It's  the  favorite  of  4  out  of  5 
top  Hollywood  movie  stars! 

It  never  dries  your  hair!  Lustre- 
Creme  Shampoo  is  blessed  with 
lanolin  .  .  .  foams  into  rich  lather, 
even  in  hardest  water  .  .  .  leaves 
hair  so  easy  to  manage. 

It  beautifies!  For  soft,  bright,  fra- 
grantly clean  hair — without  special 
after-rinses — choose  the  shampoo  of 
America's  most  glamorous  women. 
Use  the  favorite  of  Hollywood  movie 
stars — Lustre-Creme  Shampoo. 


Never  Dries 


utifles ! 


co-starring 

A  Paramount  Picture 
in  VifltaVision. 
Color  l>y  Technicolor. 


tarringin"LUCY    GALLANT" 


Every  Day  is  FATHER'S  DAY 


You'd  think  that,  on  Father's  Day,  a  man  with 
five  children  would  be  overwhelmed  by  kids  bearing 
gifts — and  you'd  be  so  right!   The  kids  love  to 
make  things,  and  last  year  the  five  junior  Linkletters 
brought  joy  to  my  day  with  the  following: 

Robert  (ten)  gave  me  a  space  ship  made  out  of  orange 
crates.    (He  later  lugged  it  out  to  the  back  yard  where 
he  and  the  neighbor's  boy  proceeded  to  make  daily 
visits  to  the  moon.) 

Dawn  (fourteen)  knitted  me  a  picture  of  a  horse. 
(She's  learning  to  knit.) 

Sharon  (eight)  made  an  ash  tray  of  colored  clay, 
roasting  it  in  the  oven.    (I  don't  smoke.) 


And  Mother's  Day,  too— as  Lois 
and  I  have  discovered,  in  bringing 
up  our  five  little  Linkletters 


Sfie   Xext    Page 


29 


Every  Day  is  FATHER'S  DAY 


(Continued) 


Jack  may  give  me  a  tie  I'd  once  given  him,  as  Dawn 
and  Robert  cheer.  But  never  mind — I  still  have  Lois, 
thai  very  indispensable  woman,  wife  and  mother  (below)! 


We're  both  working  broadcasters  these  days,  now  that 
Jack  has  a  radio  show  of  his  own.  And  what  father  isn't 
proud  to  have  his  eldest  son  following  the  same  career? 


Diane  (five  and  a  half)  mounted,  on  beaver  board, 
pictures  of  ships  cut  out  of  my  favorite  magazines.  (This 
was  in  anticipation  of  Lois'  and  my  trip  around  the 
world.) 

And  Jack  (seventeen,  and  with  a  KNX  radio  show  of 
his  own,  Jack  Lirtkletter's  Teen  Club)  pounded  out  a 
horse's  head  on  a  sheet  of  copper.  The  sulphur  he  dark- 
ened it  with  smelled  up  the  house  for  two  days.  (He  also 
gave  me  a  red  tie  I  had  given  him  the  Christmas  before.) 

Of  course,  I  like  the  thought  that  the  kids  want  to  go 
to  the  trouble  of  making  something  for  their  Dad.  But, 
each  year,  as  I  stow  the  gifts  in  the  upstairs  box  devoted 
to  this  very  purpose,  I  can't  help  thinking  that:  Father's 
Day  could  be  skipped  and  never  missed;  in  its  place,  we 
could  have  two  Mother's  Days  each  year — after  all, 
Mother  does  most  of  the  work.  .  .  . 

The  story  of  the  Five  Little  Linkletters  and  How  They 
Grew  begins  in  San  Francisco.  That's  where  our  number 
one  boy,  Jack,  was  born.  The  doctor  charged  us  $250  for 
Jack.  For  every  baby  he  delivered  after  our  first,  he  said 
he'd  knock  off  $50;  if  we  had  twins,  he'd  deliver  them  for 
nothing;  triplets,  he'd  deliver  for  free  and  take  us  to 
dinner  besides. 

We  had  two  more  children  in  San  Francisco:  Dawn 
was  delivered  for  $200,  Robert  for  $150.  I  began  thinking 
I  couldn't  afford  not  having  them.  Then,  as  I  became 
more  successful  in  radio,  we  moved  to  Hollywood.  Imme- 
diately, the  price  of  children  went  up. 

Sharon  cost  us  $1500! 

I  almost  gave  up  the  idea  of  a  big  family  when  I  saw 
that  bill!  After  all,  I  knew  Lois'  history  in  the  delivery 
room.  She  has  our  children  without  any  trouble.  So 
what  could  cost  $1500?  Why,  when  Dawn  was  born,  we 
were  up  the  coast  at  the  Bohemian  Club.  Lois  said,  "I 
think  it's  time.  .  .  ."  We  drove  (Continued  on  page  78) 


Art  Linkletter's  House  Party— CBS-TV,  2:30  P.M.;  CBS  Radio,  3:15 
—both  M-F,  for  Pillsbury  Mills,  Lever  Brothers,  Kellogg  Co.,  and 
Dole  Pineapple.  People  Are  Funny,  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  7  P.M.,  for  Prom 
Home  Permanent  and  Paper-Mate  Pens.  People  Are  Funny,  NBC 
Radio.  Tues.,  8  P.M.,  for  Mars  Candy  Co.  and  Toni.   (All  EST) 


Sharon's  gifts  are  handmade,  like  this  ashtray  she 
baked  in  our  oven.  Personally,  I  don't  smoke.  But  it's 
the  thought  that  counts — and  the  precious  fingerprints. 


Robert  (above)  and  Jack  make  gifts  for  me,  too. 
Dawn  and  Sharon  agree  this  one  is  more  appro- 
priate for  my  den  than  for  that  bulging  box  upstairs. 


Just  what  I  wanted:  Five  little  Linkletters  (Diane,  Jack,   Dawn,  Sharon,   Robert) — and  a  jeweled  fly  swatter!!! 


js 


/ 


Always  fond  of  animals,  Liz  Lawrence  makes  friends  with  a  real  French  "doll" — a  poodle  named  Poupee. 
She  studies  her  script  by  her  own  fireside  .  .  .  dresses  for  her  favorite  role — with  her  cherished  mustard-seed  earrings 


32 


TO  THE  HEART'S  DESIRE 


By  ELIZABETH  BALL 

Nora  Drake  s  friend,  Marguerite, 

has  met  with  many  an  adventure  in  her 

real  life  as  Elizabeth  Lawrence 


She's  played  many  characterizations  on  stage, 
TV  and  radio — including  the  loyal  Marguerite 
in  This  Is  Nora  Drake — but  Elizabeth  Law- 
rence is  a  character  in  her  own  right,  straight  from 
the  pages  of  romance.  She  goes  about  New  York 
bareheaded,  her  ash-blonde  hair  in  a  pony-tail,  no 
make-up.    She's  tall,  slim,  blue-eyed,  and  of 
Dutch  extraction.    She  isn't  beautiful  .  .  .  she's 
something  better — eager,  alert,  and  electric.    Alive. 
More  alive  than  almost  any  girl  you  ever  met! 

Liz  lives  on  the  top  floor  of  a  cold-water  flat  (a 
walk-up)  in  downtown  Manhattan.    She  tells 
you,  with  genuine  glee,  "Right  now,  the  $21.50  I  pay 
for  rent  looks  right  good  to  me." 

The  things  she's  done  would  fill  a  big,  fat  book: 
Before  her  heart  found  the  place  where  it  belongs, 
Liz  was  a  pre-medical  student .  .  .  had  three  years 
of  pre-med  at  the  University  of  Michigan.   During 
World  War  II,  she  joined  (Continued  on  page  96) 

Elizabeth  Lawrence  is  Marguerite  in  This  Is  Nora  Drake,  CBS 
Radio,  M-F,  2:30  P.M.,  as  sponsored  by  The  Toni  Company  and 
Bristol-Myers  Co.  She's  Francie  Brent  in  The  Road  Of  Life — 
CBS  Radio,  1  P.M.:  CBS-TV,  1:15  P.M.— M-F,  for  Procter  & 
Gamble  Co.  Also.  Elsa  Lockwood  in  The  Right  To  Happiness, 
M-F,  NBC  Radio.  3:45  P.M..  for  Procter  &  Gamble.  (All  EST) 


and  sets  off  to  work,  as  Marguerite,  in  the  studios  'way  uptown. 


Liz  does  her  own  home  repairs  and  chores,  loves 
to  cook  for  friends  (below,  actress  Ruth  Newton  of 
the  Nora  Drake  cast  and  publicist  Patti  Goldstein). 


MICKEY  EMERSON 


Looks  at  Marriage 


Proudly,  Jim  shows  a  recent  portrait  of  his  actress-mother,  Lila  Lee,  to  three  co-workers  from  Valiant  Lady — Jay  Ails, 
production  assistant;  John  Desmond,  assistant  director;  and   Dolores  Sutton,  who  plays  Ivfickey  Emerson's  sister,   Diahe. 


34 


New  and  old:  Jim  keeps  an  eye  on  today's  TV — and 
also   collects   rare   stills  from   early   motion   pictures. 


Valiant  Lady's  Jim  Kirkwood,  Jr. 
has  rather  different  plans  for  his 
real  and  TV  mothers — and  himself 


By  MAY  SCHUPACK 


Mickey  Emerson  of  Valiant  Lady  goes  into  a  tail- 
spin  whenever  it  looks  as  though  his  widowed 
mother  may  be  planning  to  remarry:  He  broods 
and  sulks  and,  on  occasion,  fights  with  Helen  Emer- 
son's beau.  .  .  .  James  Kirkwood,  Jr. — who  plays 
Mickey — has  quite  a  different  attitude  toward  his  own 
mother,  actress  Lila  Lee  of  silent-picture  fame:  He 
wants  his  mother  to  get  married  again. 

"I'm  always  on  the  lookout  for  nice  guys  for  Mother 


to  meet,"  Jim  confides.  "I'd  love  for  her  to  be  mar- 
ried. ...  I  can  understand  how  Mickey  feels.  He 
doesn't  want  his  home  disrupted  and,  once  a  step- 
father comes  into  the  picture,  that's  apt  to  happen. 
But,  with  me,  there's  no  home  to  disrupt.  That  hap- 
pened a  long  time  ago,  when  I  was  three  or  four — so 
long  ago,  I  can't  remember  what  it  was  like  to  have 
a  home  with  two  parents. 

"I  can't  say  it  made  me    (Continued  on  page  83) 


James  Kirkwood,  Jr.  is  Mickey  Emerson  in  Valiant  Lady,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12  noon  EST, sponsored  by  General  Mills,  Inc., and  The  Toni  Co. 


Pictures  on  the  walls,  above  Jim's  head,  tell  a  life  story,  as  Jim  does  his  homework,  dreams  of  outdoor  sports, 
shaves  for  a  date.  At  left,  portraits  of  his  parents,  Lila  Lee  and  James  Kirkwood,  in  their  heydey  as  silent-screen 
stars.  At  right,  a  night-club  view  of  the  very  successful,  youthful  comedy  team  of  (Jim)  Kirkwood  and  (Lee)  Goodman. 


31 


Gloria  McMillan  of  Our  Miss  Brooks 
is  one  young  bride  who  knows  the  secret 
which  can  make  romance  last  forever 
By  BUD  GOODE 

Marriage:  That's  the  magic  word.  A  happy 
marriage  to  the  right  boy  is  every  young 
girl's  most  cherished  dream.  There  is  no 
kiss  with  more  sweetness  than  the  one  which 
follows  the  marriage  vows;  there  is  no  more 
beautiful  symbol  of  completeness  than  the  perfect 
circle  of  a  gold  wedding  band.  Yes, 
marriage  is  a  many-splendored  thing:    No 
one  knows  this  more  surely  than  our 
newest  TV  bride,   Gloria   McMillan   Allen. 

Gloria  McMillan — better  known  to  her  fans  as 
teen-aged  Harriet  Conklin  on  Our  Miss  Brooks, 
over  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio— has  this 
to  say  about  her  four-month- old  marriage: 
"It's  exciting.  Very  exciting.  Very,  very  exciting!" 

Marriage  was  the  furthest  thought  from 
Gloria's  mind  that  Sunday  morning,  twelve 
months  ago,  when  she  stepped  into  the  Crib 
Room  of  the  Beverly  (Continued  on  page  81) 


Our  Miss  Brooks  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Fri.,  9:30  P.M.  EST. 
sponsored  by  General  Foods  Corp. — heard  on  CBS  Radio, 
Sun.,  8  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Anacin  and  The  Toni  Co. 


Gloria — our  "Harriet  Conklin" — weds  Gil  Allen. 


Shower:  Gloria's  mother  serves  the  bride-to-be,  at  the  party 
given  by  Mrs.  Thomas  Atchison  and  Miss  Nadine  Camden. 


Wedding:  Above — Gloria,  with  Mrs.  Thomas  Breslin, 
Harvey  Grant,  Connie  West  and  her  mother  Eve,  Mimi 
Gibson.  Below — Gloria's  TV  dad,  Principal  Conklin  (Gale 
Gordon),  gave  the  bride  away,  and  Miss  Brooks  (Eve  Arden 
West)  congratulated  her  pet  "pupil"  and  bridegroom  Gil. 


1 


Gloria  McMillan  of  Our  Miss  Brooks 
is  one  young  bride  who  knows  the  secret 
which  can  make  romance  last  forever 
By  BUD  GOODE 

Marriage:  That's  the  magic  word.  A  happy 
marriage  to  the  right  boy  is  every  young 
girl's  most  cherished  dream.  There  is  no 
kiss  with  more  sweetness  than  the  one  which 
follows  the  marriage  vows;  there  is  no  more 
beautiful  symbol  of  completeness  than  the  perfect 
circle  of  a  gold  wedding  band.  Yes, 
marriage  is  a  many-splendored  thing:   No 
one  knows  this  more  surely  than  our 
newest  TV  bride,   Gloria   McMillan   Allen. 

Gloria  McMillan— better  known  to  her  fans  as 
teen-aged  Harriet  Conklin  on  Our  Miss  Brooks, 
over  CBS -TV  and  CBS  Radio— has  this 
to  say  about  her  four-month-old  marriage: 
"It's  exciting.  Very  exciting.  Very,  very  exciting!" 

Marriage  was  the  furthest  thought  from 
Gloria's  mind  that  Sunday  morning,  twelve 
months  ago,  when  she  stepped  into  the  Crib 
Room  of  the  Beverly  (Continued  on  page  81) 

Our  Miss  Brooks  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Fri.,  9:30  P.M.  EST, 
sponsored  by  General  Foods  Corp. — heard  on  CBS  Radio, 
Sun.,  8  P.M.  EST.  sponsored  by  Anacin  and  The  Toni  Co. 


Gloria — our  "Harriet  Conklin" — weds  Sil  Allen. 


Shower:  Gloria's  mother  serves  the  bride-to-be,  at  the  party 
given  by  Mrs.  Thomas  Atchison  and  Miss  Nadine  Camden. 


Wedding:  Above — Gloria,  with  Mrs.  Thomas  Breslin, 
Harvey  Grant,  Connie  West  and  her  mother  Eve,  Mimi 
Gibson.  Below — Gloria's  TV  dad,  Principal  Conklin  (Gale 
Gordon),  gave  the  bride  away,  and  Miss  Brooks  (Eve  Arden 
West)  congratulated  her  pet  "pupil"  and  bridegroom  Gil. 


>*> 


i 


■  - 


J 


THE 

ROAD 

OF 

LIFE 


ealousy — the  green-eyed  monster  with  the  acrid 
taste  of  gall  on  its  tongue — seemed  to  Jocelyn  Brent,  at 
the  moment,  to  be  the  invisible  force.  Otherwise,  what 
was  visible  was  a  triangle:  Herself,  her  husband — Dr. 
Jim  Brent — and  Sybil  Overton  Fuller.  The  monster  had 
distorted  and  warped  Sybil's  entire  life,  Jocelyn  thought, 
and  now,  here  it  is,  cruelly  whispering  in  my  ear.  .  .  . 
Jocelyn  reflected  that  she  herself  had  agreed  to  this  situ- 
ation. Jim  was  deep  in  conversation  with  Sybil.  But, 
if  he  was  being  charming  and  was  flattering  Sybil  with 
his  undivided  attention,  Jocelyn  reminded  herself  that 
she  and  Jim  had  agreed  this  was  the  only  course  open  to 
them.  .  .  .  When  Jim  had  not  returned  Sybil's  love  and 
had  married  Jocelyn  instead,  Sybil  had  begun  a  cam- 
paign of  unremitting  attacks  aimed  at  breaking  up  the 
Brents'  marriage.  Now  it  looked  as  though  Sybil  had 
finally  found  a  way  to  bring  the  walls  of  the  Brent 
household  tumbling  down.  .  .  .  Jocelyn  thought  back  to 
the  flurry  of  her  arrival  in  the  United  States,  from 
Samoa,  for  medical  treatment.  At  that  time,  they  had 
neglected  to  fill  out  the  necessary  registration  papers  for 
aliens.  Then,  Jocelyn  had  been  technically  convicted  of 
kidnaping  because  of  an  innocent  afternoon's  outing  with 
Sybil's  child.  Sentence  had  been  suspended — but,  with 
the  conviction  on  her  record,  Jocelyn  has  suddenly  been 
classed  as  an  undesirable  alien!  With  Sybil  bringing  all 
her  power  and  influence  to  bear,  Jocelyn  is  threatened 
with  what  looks  like  certain  deportation.  .  .  .  Perhaps, 
if  they  can  expose  Sybil's  motives,  they  can  avert  this 
tragedy.  Only  Jim — by  "being  nice"  to  her,  as  they  had 
agreed — can  get  Sybil  to  give  herself  away.  But  Sybil  is 
a  strong-willed  woman,  not  easily  led  or  persuaded. 
She  is  an  attractive  woman  who  usually  gets  what  she 
goes  after — as  Jocelyn  knows — and  Sybil  has  wanted 
Jim  Brent  for  a  long  time.  .  .  .  Jim  looks  on  Sybil  as  a 
sick  woman  and  feels  pity  for  her.  But,  if  they  continue 
to  be  "friendly,"  Jocelyn  reflects,  might  not  Jim  come  to 
feel  an  entirely  different  emotion  toward  Sybil?  Could 
anything  less  convince  Sybil  to  help  fight  a  "technicality" 
that  could  separate  Jocelyn  from  Jim  forever?  Life 
takes  us  down  many  strange  paths  and  around  many 
unexpected  corners.  Which  is  the  turning  that  will  lead 
Jim  and  Jocelyn  Brent  down  the  road  of  life  together? 


The  Road  Of  Life  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  1  P.M.  EST — and  seen  on 
CBS-TV,  1:15  P.M.  EST— both  M-F,  for  Ivory  Soap,  Spie  'n  Span. 
Crisco,  Drene  and  Ivory  Flakes.  Don  MacLaughlin,  Virginia  Dwyer 
and  Barbara  Becker  are  pictured  here  (left  to  right),  in  their 
roles  as  Dr.  Jim  Brent,  Jocelyn   Brent,  and  Sybil  Overton  'Fuller. 


Jim  and  Jocelyn  Brent  come  to  a  difficult  crossroads  as  a  woman 

scorned  seeks  bitter  revenge  in  the  destruction  of  their  marriage 


39 


Melody   "sees"   a   dream   come  true,   as   her  protegee, 
Beth    (left),    meets    her    heroine,    Julie    Stevens    (right). 


Voices    are    Melody's    vision — she    always    knew    Julie 
would  be  as  lovely  as  Helen  Trent  sounded  on  the  air. 


TO 


WITH    LOVE 


Although  this  is  a  story  about  Julie  Stevens  and  the  cast 
and  staff  of  The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  it  is  also  the 
story  of  hope  ana  cheer  that  came  to  a  lovely  young  womar 
during  one  long  night  of  darkness. 

Mrs.  Melody  Miller  is  not  apt  to  forget  the  first  time  she 
heard  Julie  Stevens'  voice.     She  was  lying  flat  on  her  back  in  a 
hushed  hospital  room,  her  head  held  closely  by  heavy  sand- 
bags so  she  could  not  move  it,  even  inadvertently,  the  tiniest 
bit.     There  had  been  an  accident,  and  now  skilled  medical  men 
were  working  desperately  to  save  her  sight.     "We  must 
wait  a  week  before  we  can  operate,"  they  said.     "Meanwhile, 
you  must  be  absolutely  quiet." 

The  accident  happened  late  in  November,  1941 — nine  days 
before  Pearl  Harbor — and,  though  she  did  not  know  it  then, 
her  country  would  soon  be  at  war.     Already,  however,  Melody 
Miller  was  beginning  her  own    (Continued  on  page  75) 

Julie  Stevens  stars  in  the  title  role  of  The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  heard  on 
CBS  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday,  12:30  P.M.  EST,  us  sponsored  hy  Prom 
Home  Permanenta,  the  Whitehall   Pharmacal  Co.,  and  Boyle-Midway,  Inc. 


Julie  Stevens'  warm,  friendly 
voice  came  out  of  the 
darkness  to  Melody  Miller — and 
led  to  a  dream  of  light 

By  FRANCES  KISH 


40 


But  Julie   couldn't  guess — by   mail — that  her  devoted 
listener  is  also  an  accomplished  musician  and  composer! 


The   hostess   meets   Ernie    Ricca   (second   from    right),   director   of 
The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  and  announcer  Fielden  Farrington. 


Julie,  Melody  and  Florence  Robinson  (who  plays  Ginger  LeRoy)  are  seated  at  organ.  Standing  at  left — Ernie  Ricca,  David 
Gothard  (Gil  Whitney),  Beth;  seated — Harald  Bromley  (Senor  Alicante)  and  Teri  Keane  (Loretta  Cole).  Standing  at  right — 
Bess-  McCamman  (Agatha  Anthony),  Helene  Dumas  (Lydia  Brady),  John  Stanley  (Jeff  Brady),  Andree  Wallace  (Cynthia 
Whitney),   Fielden  Farrinqton,  Cathleen  Cordell   (Gwen  Sewell);  seated — writer  Ruth  Borden,   Hal  Studer  (Richie  Chapman). 


■;■'■■- 


HOW  TO    BE    HAPPY 


-  *: 


\ 


1  V  can  get  a  good  comedian  down,  but  it  can't 

knock  him  out — not  if  he  has  Red  Buttons'  philosophy! 


42 


By  ED  MEYERSON 


OF  late,"  The  New  York  Times  reported 
last  December,  "television  comedians 
have  been  collapsing  from  fatigue  like 
flies  in  a  Flit  storm."  There  was  Martha  Raye, 
for  one.  Then  Jan  Murray  collapsed  doing  a 
benefit.  But  the  biggest  blow  of  all  had  been 
reported  Thanksgiving  morning:  "The  strain 
in  the  life  of  television  comedians  is  in  evidence 
at  NBC.  Red  Buttons  was  in  Le  Roy  Hospital 
yesterday  suffering  from  a  virus  infection,  and 
will  not  appear  on  his  program  tomorrow  night. 
He  is  the  third  NBC  performer  to  become  ill 
within  a  week  .  .  .  Milton  Berle  collapsed  from 
exhaustion  after  doing  his  regular  show  and 
could  not  appear  as  a  guest  on  the  Martha  Raye 
program.  Joan  Blondell  also  became  ill  last 
week  during  a  rehearsal  for  the  Comedy  Hour 
and  had  to  be  replaced." 

The  millions  who  watched  The  Red  Buttons 
Show  that  Friday  night  were  surprised  to  learn 
that  the   irrepressible  little   comedian   was   ill. 


They  knew,  however,  that  nothing  can  get  Red 
down.  He'd  probably  be  back  in  a  week,  sing- 
ing "The  Ho  Ho  Song"  as  though  he  hadn't  a 
care  in  the  world — the  great,  wide,  wonderful 
world ! 

But  the  crowd  that  gathers  at  Lindy's,  Broad- 
way's famous  restaurant  rendezvous  for  show 
people,  was  frankly  worried.  They  all  knew 
Red — knew  the  story  behind  his  success.  Back 
in  1952,  when  CBS  had  starred  him  in  his  own 
program,  he  was  virtually  unknown  to  the 
public  at  large.  It  took  just  thirty  seconds, 
however,  to  correct  that.  Thirty  seconds  after 
Red  stepped  before  the  cameras,  he  was  a  hit — 
the  most  famous  new  comic  in  TV.  But  behind 
those  thirty  seconds  there  were  twenty-one 
years  of  hard  work  on  Broadway,  in  Holly- 
wood and  in  the  Catskills,  playing  everything 
from  bar  mitzvahs  to  wedding  receptions, 
vaudeville  to  burlesque,  night  clubs  to  movies. 

That  proved  to  be   (Continued  on  page  80) 


The  Red  Buttons  Show,  NBC-TV,  three  Fridays  out  of  four,  8  P.M.  EST,  for  the  Pontiac  Motor  Division  of  General  Motors. 


Opposite  page — Red  and  Helayne  Buttons  beam,  despite  the  hectic  pace  of  Red's  career:  Rushing  to  appointments  .  .  . 
giving  his  all,  even  in  rehearsal  .  .  .  taking  no-time-out  for  a  sip  from  Helayne's  cup  .  .  .  waxing  discs  with  Mitch  Miller 
of  Columbia  Records  .  .  .  being  fitted  for  a  suit  by  Irving  Heller,  right  on  the  set  .  .  .  resting  at  last,  home  with  Helayne. 


Paren+ol  duties  have  become  the  Scotts'  idea  of 
the  most  satisfying  occupation  in  the  busy  world. 


So  many  gifts,  so  much  love  surrounding  her,  they 
wonder  how  they  can  keep  from  spoiling  Debbie! 


"You  can't  put 
it  into  words" 


Deborah  brings  a  glimpse  of  heaven  to 
Dorothy  Collins  and  Raymond  Scott, 
who  wanted  a  baby  so  very,very  much 

By  GLADYS  HALL 

One  morning  late  last  fall,  a  telegram  was 
delivered  to  me: 

"DOROTHY  HAD  AN  EIGHT  POUND  BABY  GIRL.     BOTH 
DOING   FINE.     WE'RE   SO  THRILLED  BECAUSE   WE   SO  MUCH 
WANTED   A   BABY   GIRL." 

The  telegram  was  signed  "raymond  scott." 

Two  weeks  later,  to  the  day,  Dorothy  Collins  Scott  was 
at  home,  sitting  in  a  low- cushioned  chair  and  holding 
her  baby.   "A  doll  holding  a  doll"  was  the  picture  they 
made  .  .  .  and,  as  I  watched  her  looking  down  at  the 
little  girl's  black  hair   (Raymond's  hair),  at  the  blue, 
blue  eyes  (Raymond's  eyes),  the  wonder  in  her 
face  was  wonderful  to  see. 

"There  is  nothing  like  it,"  she  said,  in  a  voice 
as  soft  as  the  singing  voice  with  which  she  lullabies  tiny 
Deborah.  "You  can't  put  it  into  words.  .  .  . 

"This  is  the  first  time  I've  {Continued  on  page  69) 

Dorothy  and  Raymond  are  stars  on  Your  Hit  Parade,  NBC-TV,  Sat., 
10:30  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  American  Tobacco  Co.  (Lucky 
Strike  Cigarettes)   and  Richard  Hudnut  (Quick  Home  Permanent). 


Dorothy  still  takes   loving   inventory  with   her  eyes,   as 
nurse   Catherine   Carruthers   gives    Debbie   her   bottle. 


*.> 


V 


a. 


With  Deborah  in  their  arms  or  on  the  scales,  Raymond  and  Dorothy  know  the  exact  weight  of  happiness. 
HI      P-1  — ■— " 


"Mr.  Sandman"  has  been  so  good  to  the  Chordettes,  they  don't 
want  to  wake  up  for  anything— except  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  shows 


Janet  Ertel  and  husband  Archie  Bleyer — -who 
had  even  more  to  do  with  "Mr.  Sandman"  than 
you  might  suspect — have  their  own  music  shop. 


AND  A  DREAM 


Archie  is  the  founder  of  Cadence  Records. 
Janet  first  sang  "barber-shop  bass"  with  the 
original  Chordettes  in  Sheboygan,  Wisconsin. 


By  JACK  MAHON 


As  far -back  as  Dad  can  remember,  the  mention  of  a 
barber-shop  quartet  brings  back  memories  of  four 
mustached  dandies  in  checkered  suits  gathered 
around  the  village  bar  or  barber  shop.   There'd  be  saw- 
dust on  the  floor,  gaslights  on  the  wall  and  songs 
like  "Moonlight  Bay,"  "Wait  Till  the  Sun  Shines  Nelly," 
"My  Gal  Sal,"  and  other  bits  of  nostalgia  to  fill  the  air. 

Well,  that  was  long  ago.   This  is  the  story  of  another 
barber-shop  quartet  Daddy  would  certainly  never 
recognize.     It's   the   tale   of   four   highly    intelligent   and 
provocative  young  ladies  from   out  of  the  Midwest 
who'd  look  ridiculous  indeed  with  mustaches.    Their 
search  for  a  dream  came  true  and,  in  the  short 
space  of  six  months,  the  girls  have  shot  into  the 
spotlight  of  national  TV  and  recording  fame. 


46 


Continued 


• 


Close  harmony,  from  left  to  right:  Marjorie  Needham,  Lynn  Evans,  Carol  Bushman  and  Janet  Ertel. 


— 


AND  A  DREAM 

(Continued) 


Carol  Bushman — the  "baritone" — is  one  of  the  original 
Chordettes  from  Sheboygan.  Formerly  Carol  Hagedorn, 
she's  married  to  photographer  Robert  Bushman.  Their 
chief  hobby  is  raising  parakeets  (one  on  record,  below). 


Lynn  Evans  came  from  Youngstown,  Ohio,  with  husband  Bob, 


They  are  the  Chordettes,  an  all-girl  barber-shop 
quartet  formed  a  few  years  ago  in  Sheboygan,  Wis- 
consin— cradle  of  many  barber-shop  combinations— 
and  today  are  the  stars  of  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  TV  and 
radio  shows.  They  recorded  a  song  written  by  Pat 
Ballard,  "Mr.  Sandman,  Send  Me  a  Dream,"  last  Aug- 
ust, and  this  one  number — given  a  tricky  arrangement 
by  Archie  Bleyer,  former  musical  director  of  the 
Arthur  Godfrey  shows — has  made  them  the  talk  of  the 
TV  and  recording  industry.  In  less  than  two  months, 
the  record  sold  more  than  half  a  million  copies,  and 
Bing  Crosby  and  Guy  Lombardo  have  complimented 
them  on  it. 

The  story  of  the  Chordettes  is  something  of  a 
Cinderella  story,  too,  for  it  was  the  tricky  arrange- 
ment of  the  melody  by  Bleyer,  combining  some  of  the 
"dum-da-da-dum"  tones  of  the  Dragnet  theme  with 
timely  references  to  Pagliacci  and  Liberace,  that  had 
much  to  do  with  the  success  of  the  danceable  ditty. 

Then,  too,  the  Chordettes,  like  Bleyer  and  singer 
Julius  La  Rosa,  are  ex-  "Little  Godfreys."  They  got 
their  first  break  in  September,  1949,  when  they  won 
on  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  program,  and  re- 
mained with  him  threer  and  a  half  years~before  branch- 
ing  out  on  their  own. 

When  Bleyer  and  La  Rosa  (Continued  on  page  84) 

The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  2  P.M.  EST,  spon- 
sored by  Miles  Laboratories  (makers  of  Alka-Seltzer),  Helene 
Curtis  Industries  (Spray  Net  and  Lanolin  Discovery),  O-Cel-0 
Sponges,  Betty  Crocker  Cake  Mixes,  Johnson's  Wax,  Swanson 
Frozen  Poultry,  Doeskin  Tissues,  Mazola.  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show  on  CBS  Radio,  Sat,  11  A.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Helene 
Curtis    (Suave,    Shampoo    Plus    Egg),    Pine-Sol,   Perma-Starch. 


3  loan  company  official,  and  little  Bobby.    She  takes  pictures  and  romps  with  her  son  when  not  singing  "lead"  in  the  quartet. 


Marjorie  Needham — "tenor"  of  the  female  barber-shop  foursome — hails  from  Berwyn,  Illinois,  and  is  now  married  to  Walter 
LatzKo,  musical  arranger  for  the  Chordettes.  Music  pours  forth  from  their  piano — the  words  are  added  when  they  play  Scrabble! 


49 


_ 


AND  A  DREAM 

(Continued) 


Carol  Bushman — the  "baritone" — is  one  of  the  original 
Chordettes  from  Sheboygan.  Formerly  Carol  Hagedorn, 
she's  married  to  photographer  Robert  Bushman.  Their 
chief  hobby  is  raising  parakeets  (one  on  record,  below]. 


Lynn  Evans  came  from  Youngstown,  Ohio,  with  husband  Bob, 


They  are  the  Chordettes,  an  all-girl  barber-shop 
quartet  formed  a  few  years  ago  in  Sheboygan,  Wis- 
consin—cradle of  many  barber-shop  combinations-^ 
and  today  are  the  stars  of  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  TV  and 
radio  shows.  They  recorded  a  song  written  by  Pat 
Ballard,  "Mr.  Sandman,  Send  Me  a  Dream,"  last  Aug- 
ust, and  tins  one  number— given  a  tricky  arrangement 
by  Archie  Bleyer,  former  musical  director  of  the 
Arthur  Godfrey  shows— has  made  them  the  trik  of  the 
TV  and  recording  industry.  In  less  than  two  months, 
the  record  sold  more  than  half  a  million  copies,  and 
Bing  Crosby  and  Guy  Lombardo  have  complimented 
them  on  it. 

The  story  of  the  Chordettes  is  something  of  a 
Cinderella  story,  too,  for  it  was  the  tricky  arrange- 
ment of  the  melody  by  Bleyer,  combining  some  of  to 
"dum-da-da-dum"  tones  of  the  Dragnet  theme  w 
timely  references  to  Fagliacci  and  Liberace,  that .had 
much  to  do  with  the  success  of  the  danceable  ditty. 

Then,  too,  the  Chordettes,  like  Bleyer  and  singer 
Julius  La  Rosa,  are  ex-  "Little  Godfreys."  They  got 
their  first  break  in  September,  1949,  when  they  won 


loan  company  official,  and  little  Bobby.    She  takes  pictures  and  romps  with  her  son  when  not  singing  "lead"  in  the  quartet. 


on  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  program, 


and  re- 


mainetr wrtbrhmr  threerandra  haJfyears-before  branar 

ing  out  on  their  own.  M> 

When  Bleyer  and  La  Rosa  (Continued  on  jwfl«  »' 

The  Robert  Q.  lewis  Show  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  2  P.M.  EST  »P™- 
sored  by  Miles  Laboratories   (makers  of  Alka-Seltzer ),         ^ 
Curtis  Industries  (Spray  Net  and  Lanolin  Discovery),  " ■«■ 
Sponges,  Betty  Crocker  Cake  Mixes,  Johnson's  Wax,  =*V« 
Frozen  Poultry,  Doeskin  Tissues,  Mazola.   The  ^owM/- "J 
Show  on  CBS  Radio,  Sat,  11  A.M.  EST,  sponsored  W  " 
Curtis    (Suave,    Shampoo   Plus   Egg),   Pine-Sol,   Perm" 


ii    .  .    .  l       r         _=     k„;k  (mm  Berwvn  Illinois,  and  is  now  married  to  Walter 

Majorf.  Needham-"tenor"  of  the  female  barber-shop  ^l^Z^J^^Zd are  added  when  they  play  Scrabble! 
Lohko,  musical  arranger  for  the  Qhordettes.  Music  pours  forth  from  their  piano— tne  woras 


K 


> 


N 


>-^a 


V 


\l 


N^ 


•A* 


Dressed  in  our  Sunday  best:  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
on  sofa;  Dennis  at  left;  Randy  at  right. 


H 


ome  with  a  capital 


H 


No  "Blandings"  problems  for  Durward — our  contractor-builders, 
Bob  and  Herb  Kennedy,  put  up  our  dream  house  right  on  schedule. 

By  MARY  PAXTON  KIRBY 

Old  friends  sometimes  ask  how  I  like  being  a  housewife, 
after  having  been  in  radio  myself  for  so  long. 
What  do  you  do  with  yourself  all  day?  they  want  to 
know,  as  if  I  had  nothing  to  do  but  sit  on  a  tuff  et  and  eat 
curds  and  whey. 

"What"  indeed!   Merely  run  a  good-sized  house  for 
twelve-year-old  Randy  and  five-year-old  Dennis,  two  active, 
growing  youngsters — and  for  a  hard-working  husband 
named  Durward  Kirby;  who  is  on  television  at  least  seven 
times  a  week,  who  is  a  perfectionist  (Continued  on  page  92) 


Announcer-comedian   Durward   Kirby   is   featured   on   The  Garry  Moore 
Show,  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  at  10  A.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Two  homes,  in  fact — two  wonderful 
sons — and  Durward  Kirby,  too ! 
What  more  could  any  woman  ask  ? 


My   menfolk   enjoy  casual   outdoor  life,    but  are 
well-groomed,  too — particularly  for  church-going. 


We  like,  to  take  care  of  the  furnishings — and 
most  of  the  inside  Finishing — ourselves.  I  make 
my  own  rugs,  and  plan  to  make  some  pottery,  too! 


51 


A  beautiful  set  of  furniture  ...  a  handsome  bedspread  .  .  .  fine  dishware  .  .  .  an 
attractive  lamp  .  .  .  one  of  these  wonderful  prizes  may  be  yours!  Here's  how  you  can 

FEATHER  YOUR  NEST 


What  happiness,  what  delightful 
change,  could  it  bring  into  your  life 
if,  suddenly,  a  whole  room  full  of 
handsome  new  furniture  were  yours  for 
the  wishing — and  a  little  wit? 

Having  everything  new,  having  every- 
thing match,  having  everything  in  a  room 
combine  to  form  a  perfect  setting  for  the 
pleasant  drama  of  family  living  is  a 
dream  which  most  men  and  women  share. 

Now,  without  even  the  need  to  think  of 
your  budget,  you  have  a  chance  to  turn 
that  dream  into  a  reality.  This  month,  the 
editors  of  TV  Radio  Mirror  have  joined 
with  the  producers  of  NBC -TV's  Feather 
Your  Nest  and  its  star,  Bud  Collyer,  and 
hostess,  Janis  Carter,  to  present  a 
challenging  contest — Feather  Your  Nest, 
Home  Edition.   The  fabulous  grand  prize  is 
an  entire  room  full  of  fine  furniture 
by  Drexel  Furniture  Company. 

Best  of  all,  you  have  exactly  the  same 
shopping  privilege  you  would  have  if 
you  actually  appeared  in  person  on  the 
program  in  New  York.  You  may  choose 
whichever  room  you  want — the  Touraine 
Bedroom,  the  American  Traditional  Dining 
Room  or  the  Circle  "D"  Living  Room 
pictured  here.    (Continued  on  page  95) 

Feather  Your  Nest,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  12:30  P.M.  EST, 
for  Colgate-Palmolive,   Winston    Cigarettes,   others. 


First  prize  in  this  contest  will  be  one  of  the 
three  furniture  sets  shown  on  opposite  page. 

Top:  American  Traditional  Dining  Room  by 
Drexel  Furniture  Co.,  styled  in  cheerful, 
mellow  knotty  pine.  Prize  includes:  dining 
table,  nest  of  tables,  2  side  chairs,  2  arm- 
chairs, 2  tavern  chairs,  cupboard  base  and 
deck,  and  water  bench. 

Middle:  Circle  "D"  Living  Room  by  Drexel 
Furniture  Co.,  in  sturdy  Western  ranch-style 
weathered  chestnut  oak.  Prize  includes:  a 
sofa,  ottoman,  2  step  tables,  2  men's  loafer 
chairs,  cocktail  table,  bookcase,  and  cupboard. 

Bottom:  Touraine  Bedroom  by  Drexel  Fur- 
niture Co.,  styled  with  easy  grace  inspired  by 
history's  most  romantic  period.  Prize  in- 
cludes: table,  bench,  bed,  night  table,  chair, 
dresser,  mirror. 


Bud  Collyer  and  Janis  Carter  wait  hopefully  as  contestant  James 
Mackie  thinks  hard  for  the  right  answer  which  will  "feather  his  nest." 
Below,  William  Canfield,  having  answered  the  jackpot  question  cor- 
rectly, joyfully  embraces  Janis,  while  Bud  rejoices  from  the  sidelines. 


See  Next  Page 


FEATHER  YOUR  NEST 


(Continued) 


RUNNER-UP  PRIZES  (your  choice  of  one):  Left,  fine  Stancjl  Ware,  16-piece  starter 
set  in  Amber-Slo  pattern;  center,  a  beautiful  Morgan  Jones  bedspread  in  Minuet  pat- 
tern; right,  handsome  Sight  Light  Floor  Lamp — the  lamp  that  gives  "Seeing  Comfort." 


Feather  Your  Nest    (Home  Edition)    Contest 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  P.O.  Box  1849 
Grand  Central  Station 
New  York  17,  N.Y. 

1.  Fill  out  and  include  crossword  puzzle  on  the  opposite  page  with  this  coupon. 

2.  Complete  the  following  sentence  in  fifty  words  or  less:  I  would  like  the  (check  one  only) 

Touraine  Bedroom     Q  American  Traditional  Dining  Room     G  Circle  "D"  Living  Room      Q 

because 


3.  If  I  am  chosen  as  one  of  the  twenty-four  runners-up  I  would  like: 

a 
a 


Morgan  Jones  bedspread 

OR 
Sight  Light  Floor  Lamp 

OR 
Stangl  Ware,  16-piece 
Starter  Set 


□ 


YOUR   NAME 

STREET  OR  BOX  NO. 


CITY  OR  TOWN STATE 


Bo  sure  l<>  include  the  crossword  puzzle  with  this  coupon.  Mail  your  entry  before  midnight,  Tuesday,  April  5,  1955. 


54 


Fill  out  the  puzzle  below  and  include  with  coupon  on  opposite  page. 


CONTEST  RULES 

1.  Each  entry  must  include  both  coupon 
and  crossword  puzzle,  as  printed  on 
these  pages,  with  your  complete  an- 
swers. 

2.  Address  entries  to :  Feather  Your 
Nest  (Home  Edition)  Contest,  TV 
Radio  Mirror,  P.  O.  Box  1849,  Grand 
Central  Station,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

3.  Contest  ends  midnight,  Tuesday, 
April  5,  1955.  Entries  postmarked  after 
that  date  will  not  be  considered. 

4.  The  first-prize  winner  will  receive  the 
set  of  Drexel  furniture  described  on 
page  53  and  designated  as  "preferred"  on 
the  contestant's  coupon.  The  next  twen- 
ty-four runners-up  will  receive  a  Mor- 
gan Jones  bedspread  in  Minuet  pattern 
— or  a  Sight  Light  Floor  Lamp — or  a 
16-piece  set  of  Stangl  Ware  in  Amber- 
Glo  pattern — according  to  preference 
designated  on  coupon. 

5.  Entries  will  be  judged  on  the  basis 
of  accuracy  in  completing  the  crossword 
puzzle  and  originality  in  stating  reasons 
for  choice  of  furniture,  in  fifty  words 
or  less,  on  the  coupon. 

6.  You  may  submit  more  than  one  en- 
try. In  case  of  a  tie,  duplicate  prizes 
will  be  awarded.  The  decision  of  the 
judges  will  be  final. 

7.  This  contest  is  open  to  everyone  in 
the  United  States  and  Canada,  except 
employees  (and  their  relatives)  of  Mac- 
fadden  Publications,  Inc.,  the  Colgate- 
Palmolive  Co.,  and  their  agencies. 

8.  All  entries  become  the  property  of 
Macfadden  Publications,  Inc.  No  cor- 
respondence can  be  entered  into  in  re- 
gard to  the  entries.  Names  of  all  win- 
ners will  be  announced  in  the  July  1955 
issue  of  TV  Radio  Mirror. 


ACROSS 
1  The  comedienne  pictured  here   (full 

name) . 
6  On  radio  and  TV  he's  a  police  ser- 
geant who  seldom  gets  "tangled  up" 
(last  name) . 
9  His  trademarks:   A  smile  and  can- 
delabra. 
10  Initials  of  Welcome  Travelers'  host. 
12  Since  TV,  more   people  spend  this 

night  at  home   (abbreviated). 
14  His  middle  initial  is  the  17th  letter 

of  the  alphabet  (first  name). 
16  The  man  with  the  Heartline    (last 
name) . 

18  Opposite  of  his. 

19  Down Go. 

20  The  Right Happiness. 

22  Lucille  Ball  is  Desi  Arnaz. 

24  John  Cameron  Swayze's  subject. 

25  Emcee  of  You  Asked  For  It    (last 
name) . 

27  There    are    more    sets   in    the  

than   in   any  other   country. 

28  Initials  of  Leo  Durocher's  wife. 

30  She  plays  radio  and  TV's  favorite 
teacher   (first  name). 

31  Harriet  Nelson's  husband. 

34  Luncheon  Sardi's. 

35  If  you  have  TV,  you're  sure  to 

quite  a  few  shows. 

36  Roy   Rogers   would    more   likely   be 
found  on  a than  in  a  night  club. 

41  This  actor's  last  name  is  the  same  as 

Cain's  brother. 
43  Young   stars   in   her'  own   TV 

show. 
45  Title    of    TV    situation    comedy    in 

which  David  Wayne  stars. 

48  Female  singing  voice. 

49  Do  you  have  a  radio  in  your ? 

50  Synonym  for  anger. 

51  China ,  TV  adventure  series. 


53  Jackie  Gleason  stands  at  the 


of      46 


DOWN 

1  The  Woman My  House. 

2  He  says  he's  a  common  man,  "and 
you  can't  hardly  get  them  no  more" 
(last  name). 

3  Mr.  And  Mrs. ,  mystery  show. 

4  Orchestra  leader  Harry special- 
izes in  Hawaiian  music. 

5  Last  name  of  TV  cowboy  whose 
horse's  name  is  Champion. 

7  TV  viewers  can  be  more  at than 

theatergoers. 

8  This  redhead  says  "strange  things 
are  happening"  on  TV  (last  name). 

11  A  TV  mike  is  often  attached  to  a . 

13  "Second  banana"  on  Jackie  Gleason's 
show  (first  name). 

15  Gracie    Allen's   "better    half"    (last 
name). 

16  He's  funny,  he's  a  Hoosier  and  he 
plays  the  harmonica  (first  name). 

17  He  thinks  People  Are  Funny    (last 
name) . 

21  Make  Room Daddy. 

23  Victory  At . 

26  TV  host  called  "Smiley"  (first  name) . 

27  Once a  time. 

29  Who'd  tell  his  sponsor  to  fly  a ? 

30  Last  name  of  June  Collyer's  husband. 

32  This  husky  fellow  plays  a  mighty 
hot  violin  on  TV  (last  name) . 

33  Often  called  "Ski  Nose"   (initials). 

37  His  wife   is   Jayne   Meadows    (last 
name). 

38  Ray  Milland  and  Phyllis  Avery  are 
husband  and  wife  in  real  life. 

39  Milton  has  long  been  commen- 
tator for  broadcasts  from  the  "Met." 

40  Opposite  of  she. 

41  Life  Begins  80. 

42  His     radio    show    was    Nightmare 
(last  name) . 

44  First  word  of  Ralph  Edwards'  show. 


the  long  list  of  TV  comedians. 

54  Circus  stars  perform  in  these. 

55  "You'd  be nice  to  come  home  to." 

56  The  People,  once-popular  radio 

show. 


Man's  Family. 


47  Seconds  are  most  important  on  his 
show   (first  name). 

48  You  There. 

50  See  Now. 

52  Person  Person. 


55 


Professional  Father 


Steve  Dunne  knows  it  doesn't  take  psychology  to  realize 

that  a  family  is  really  a  home — and  kids — and  loving  parents 


56 


By  GORDON  BUDGE 

What  is  a  family?     According  to  Steve  Dunne, 
who  plays  the  title  role  in  CBS -TV's  new 
comedy,  Professional  Father,  a  family  is 
"one-thousand-and-one  different  things." 

One  Sunday  a  few  weeks  ago,  for  example,  Steve 
— just  returned  from  a  special  appearance — was 
watching  TV  in  the  upstairs  den  when  his 
family  came  in  from  church.     The  slam  of  the 
front  door,  and  the  music  of  happy  children's  voices 
drifting  up  the  stairs,  announced  the  return  of 
the  Dunne  family — Nin  (Vivian,  Steve's  wife), 
12-year-old  Steve,  Jr.,  and  8-year-old  Chris 
(Christina).      Big    Steve,    his    dark   hair    Sunday- 
combed  in  preparation  for  their  afternoon  dinner 
together,  allowed  himself  a  moment  of  prideful 
thought — how  fortunate  he  was  to  have  such  a 
happy  and  healthy,  such  a  pleasant  and  easygoing 
family. 

Then  the  door  slammed  three  times  in  quick 
succession.     The  arrival  of  the  Dunne  children  at 
the  house  had  been  a  signal  for  all  the  kids  on 
the  block  to  gather.    The  chorus  of  new  voices 
added  to  the  eruption  of  sound  below;  the  door 
slams  were  punctuated  by  the  clacking  of  bicycle 
stands  on  the  porch  steps;  and,  finally,  the  entire 
symphony  of  noise  grew  in  crescendo  as  the 
hi-fi  system  warmed  to  its  (Continued  on  page  87) 

Steve  Dunne  is  Dr.  Thomas  Wilson  in  Professional  Father,  on 
CBS-TV,  Sat.,  10  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  Helene  Curtis 
Industries.  Inc.,  for  Suave,  Shampoo  Plus  Egg,  and  Spray  Net. 


Steve  and  his  wife  Vivian  ("Nin")  believe  in  projects  they 
can  do  together  with  Steve,  Jr.,  12,  and  Christina,  8, 
such  as  playing  games  and  making  music  (opposite  page). 


He  gives  equal  time  to  his  daughter  and  son,  sharing  both 
homework  and  fashion  shows  with  Chris,  playing  baseball 
with    Stevie    and    collecting    sports    autographs    for    him. 


57 


In  a  moment  of  happiness,  Ma  rejoices  with  Joe 
and  Gladys  over  their  new  baby.  For  Gladys,  once  a 
wild  little  rich  qirl,  this  is  the  greatest  wealth  of  all. 


2.  When  the  milk  company  burns  down,  Ma  and  her 
friends  decide  to  rebuild  it.  Shuffle,  Joe,  lawyer  Blair 
Buchanan  and  Willy  meet  to  draw  up  the  papers. 


Ma  Perkins  sat  quietly,  a  happy  smile  on  her 
face.  A  child  is  born,  she  thought,  a  familiar 
miracle  that  never  ceases  to  be  new  and  full 
of  wonder.  The  baby  born  to  Gladys  and  Joe,  Ma's 
adopted  son,  is  a  new  life,  a  small  new  spirit  to  be 
led  along  the  paths  of  life,  needing  guidance  and 
wisdom  and,  above  all,  love. 

As  Ma  thinks  of  the  cherished  new  member  of 
the  family,  her  mind  slips  back  to  the  sorrows  and 
worries  through  which  the  Perkinses  have  just 
passed.  Most  of  these  sorrows  had  centered  around 
young  Billy  Pierce  and  his  ruthless,  ambitious 
wife  Laura — and  the  fact  that,  on  his  deathbed, 
Alf  Pierce  had  named   Ma   trustee   of   his   large 


estate  and  had  asked  his  good  friend,  Ma,  to  keep 
watch  over  his  son. 

Ma  could  never  have  expected  the  difficulties 
and  tragedies  that  resulted — the  fire  at  the  Pierce 
milk  company  .  .  .  the  false  accusations  that 
claimed  Joe's  negligence  was  the  cause  of  the  fire 
in  which  Laura's  brother  Max  had  lost  his  life  .  .  . 
the  ugly  lawsuits  which  Laura,  scheming  for  con- 
trol of  the  quarter-million-dollar  estate,  had  urged 
Billy  to  bring  against  the  Perkins  family.  Only  the 
lucky  accident  of  a  young  boy's  having  seen  Max 
come  home  with  Joe,  then  return  by  himself  to  the 
milk  company,  had  cleared  Joe's  name. 

The  milk  company  is  Rushville  Center's  largest 


See   Xext   Page- 


m 


1.  In  a  moment  of  happiness,  Ma  rejoices  with  Joe 
and  Gladys  over  their  new  baby.  For  Gladys,  once  a 
wild  little  rich  qirl,  this  is  the  greatest  wealth  of  all. 


Ma  Pebkins  sat  quietly,  a  happy  smile  on  her 
face.  A  child  is  born,  she  thought,  a  familiar 
miracle  that  never  ceases  to  be  new  and  full 
of  wonder.  The  baby  born  to  Gladys  and  Joe,  Mas 
adopted  son,  is  a  new  life,  a  small  new  spirit  to  be 
led  along  the  paths  of  life,  needing  guidance  and 
wisdom  and,  above  all,  love. 

As  Ma  thinks  of  the  cherished  new  member  or 
the  family,  her  mind  sUpsback  to  the  sorrows  and 
worries  through  which  the  Perkinses  have  just 
passed.  Most  of  these  sorrows  had  centered  around 
young  Billy  Pierce  and  his  ruthless,  ambitious 
wife  Laura-and  the  fact  that,  on  his  deathbed, 
Alf  Pierce  had  named  Ma  trustee  of  his  large 


2.  When  the  milk  company  burns  down,  Ma  and  her 
friends  decide  to  rebuild  it.  Shuffle,  Joe,  lawyer  Blair 
Buchanan  and  Willy  meet  to  draw  up  the  papers. 


estate  and  had  asked  his  good  friend,  Ma,  to  keep 
watch  over  his  son. 

Ma  could  never  have  expected  the  difficulties 
and  tragedies  that  resulted— the  fire  at  the  Pierce 
milk  company  .  .  .  the  false  accusations  that 
claimed  Joe's  negligence  was  the  cause  of  the  fire 
in  which  Laura's  brother  Max  had  lost  his  life  .  .  . 
the  ugly  lawsuits  which  Laura,  scheming  for  con- 
trol of  the  quarter-million-dollar  estate,  had  urged 
Billy  to  bring  against  the  Perkins  family.  Only  the 
lucky  accident  of  a  young  boy's  having  seen  Max 
come  home  with  Joe,  then  return  by  himself  to  the 
milk  company,  had  cleared  Joe's  name. 

The  milk  company  is  Rushville  Center's  largest 

See   Xext  Page 


3.  With  a  new  baby  to  plan  for,  Joe  throws  all  his  energies  into  the  plans  for  the  new  milk  company.  Sometimes,  he's  over- 
enthusiastic  and  Shuffle  and  Willy  Fitz  urge  him  to  be  more  practical  as  Evey,  Ma  and  Fay  watch  with  amusement — 
and  pride.  But  much  is  at  stake,  for  all  the  money  they  could  raise — plus  a  bank  loan — has  gone  to  rebuild  the  plant. 


industry,  and  for  a  while  it  had  looked  as  though  it 
must  be  closed  down — with  twenty-six  men  thrown 
out  of  work.  To  avoid  this  catastrophe,  Ma  and  her 
family  had  gathered  together  all  the  money  they  could 
raise.  Then,  with  faithful  Shuffle  Shober  as  partner, 
the  Perkins  family  had  borrowed  the  rest  of  the  money 
from  Banker  Pendleton  and  had  bought  the  milk  com- 


Pictured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Ma  Perking Virginia  Payne 

Willy  Fitz Murray  Forbes 

Shuffle  Shober Charles  Egelston 

Fay Joan  Tompkins 

Evey Kay  Campbell 

Joe Ivor  Francis 

Gladys Helen  Lewis 

Billy  Pierce Kort  Falkenberg 

Mathilda  Pendleton Gladys  Thornton 

Blair  Buchanan Casey  Allen 

Ma  Perkins  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Mon.  through  Fri.,  at  1:15 
P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble,  makers  of  Oxydol. 


pany  from  Billy  Pierce.  But,  as  part  of  the  conditions 
of  sale,  Ma  had  had  to  give  up  her  trusteeship  of  the 
Pierce  estate.  In  return,  Billy  had  agreed  to  drop  the 
lawsuit  against  the  Perkins  family. 

Troubled  by  the  feeling  that  she  was  failing  to  live 
up  to  her  promise  to  Billy's  father,  Ma  had  continued 
to  guard  Billy's  interests  with  warmth  and  sympathy. 
But  there  was  little  that  she  could  do,  once  Laura  had 
control  of  the  Pierce  money.  The  little  girl  who  had 
grown  up  in  back  of  a  fish  store  and  had  wilfully  rushed 
through  life,  armed  with  nothing  but  her  own  ruthless- 
ness,  was  a  wealthy  woman  now.  Laura  knew  exactly 
what  she  wanted  to  do  with  the  money — and  her  plans 
didn't  include  Billy.  She  planned  to  take  the  money 
and  go  off,  with  Duncan  Morris,  to  Europe.  Duncan, 
who  had  plans  of  his  own,  had  beguiled  Billy  into 
turning  the  money  over  to  him  so  that  he  could  go  to 
New  York  and  help  Billy  buy  a  seat  on  the  Stock  Ex- 
change. 

Remembering,  Ma  shuddered  at  the  tragic  events 
which  had  followed.  Laura  had  learned  that  Duncan 
was  planning  to  take  the  money  and  leave  the  country 
without  her  and  she  had  boarded  the  first  plane  to  New 
York.  Ma  and  Billy  had  followed,  only  to  discov  that 
greed  had  brought  death  to  both  Laura  and  Duncan. 


60 


JMLA   PERKIIVS 

(Continued) 


4.  Ma  offers  warmth  and  understanding  as  Billy  Pierce 
tries  to  adjust  to  the  fact  that  the  girl  he  loved  had 
lived  a  ruthless,  selfish  life — and  died  a  tragic  death. 


Now,  the  money  has  been  restored  to  Billy.  With 
gentle  tact  and  kindness,  Ma  is  helping  the  saddened 
young  man  to  recover  from  the  shock  of  the  betrayal 
and  violent  death  of  the  girl  he  had  believed  in  and 
loved.  In  doing  so,  Ma  has  managed  to  live  up  to  the 
trust  vested  in  her  by  her  old  friend,  Alf  Pierce,  and 
is  thereby  helping  his  son  to  build  a  more  solid  future. 

In  the  aftermath  of  these  trials,  Ma  looks  about  her. 
Her  staunch  friend,  Willy  Fitz,  is  doing  well  in  his  in- 
surance business,  and  his  wife  Evey,  Ma's  daughter, 
now  president  of  the  women's  club,  is  gay  and  happy. 
Ma's  other  daughter,  Fay,  and  her  husband  Tom  have 
a  good  marriage — one  which  is  becoming  another  bas- 
tion of  happiness  for  Ma  and  for  all  their  family  and 
friends.  Shuffle,  as  part-owner  of  the  milk  company,  is 
probably  the  happiest  he  has  ever  been.  Joe,  one  of 
the  proudest  fathers  Rushville  Center  has  ever  seen,  is 
busy  rebuilding  the  milk  company.  His  wife  Gladys, 
the  wild  little  rich  girl  who,  under  Ma's  quiet  influence, 
settled  down  and  became  a  fine  wife,  wants  desperate- 
ly only  one  thing — to  become  the  best  mother  in  the 
world. 

It  is  a  period  of  happiness  and  serenity  in  Rushville 
Center.  But — is  this  the  calm  before  the  storm?  Will 
the  future  beckon  brightly  to  Ma  Perkins,  her  family 
and  many  friends?  Or  will  there  be  new  difficulties — 
which,  perhaps,  are  forming,  even  now — to  challenge 
the  wisdom  and  experience  of  the  beloved  Ma  Perkins? 


5.  Ma  readies  a  crib  for  the  new  baby,  as  Mathilda 
Pendleton,  Gladys'  mother,  watches.  Busily  planning  the 
future,  Ma  and  her  friends  fail  to  see  any  danger  ahead. 


61 


"MAKE  UP  YOUR  MIND" 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 


The  woman  was  about  eight  months'  pregnant,  and  her 
husband  was  taking  her  out  to  dinner.    He  drove  to  the 
restaurant  with  care,  braking  lightly  at  traffic  lights,  taking 
turns  slowly.  At  the  restaurant,  he  circled  the  block  looking 
for  a  parking  place.  He  circled  it  again,  and  the  third  time 
around — wonder  of  wonders — he  saw  a  gap.    Just  as  he  got  into 
position  to  back  in,  a  would-be  cowboy  galloped  up  in  a  yellow 
convertible — nearly  causing  an  accident — and  nosed  his  own 
car  into  the  space. 

The  husband  snarled  and  champed,  ready  for  battle.    Then  his 
wife  spoke  up.   Said  Janet  to  Arthur  Henley — who  is  the 
originator  and  producer  of  Make  Up  Your  Mind — "Now,  take  it 
easy.  Remember,  you  just  discussed  this  (Continued  on  page  99) 

Arthur  Henley  produces  and  directs  Make  Up  Your  Mind,  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F, 
11:30  A.M.   EST,   as   sponsored  by   Wonder   Bread   and   Hostess   Cup    Cakes. 


Show  keeps  Art  busy — 10,000  letters  a  week! 


i  Her 


62 


Art  Henley  proves  it  can  be  fun  to 
think,  particularly  about  problems  like 
those  in  your  own  family — and  his ! 


Son  Eric  finds  a  congenial  playmate  in  Art.  Wife  Janet  sus- 
pects they  are  two  of  a  kind — both  "mechanically  inclined." 


1 1 1  H  '*g*r*i*u*&' 

R    Br 

HP 

V^ 

II 

J 

:|k       M 

/  >  v^^B 

X 

^ 

[<  A 

( 

! 

Art's  mind  was  made  up,  so  he  was 

surprised  wh 

en  the 

second  baby  was  a  boy — but  Kenneth  won  his 

heart. 

He  calls  to  tell  Janet  he's  working  late.  But  home's  a  happy  haven,  with  a  familiar  motto  on  the  mat — and  time  to  play  with  Eric. 


63 


Inger  Stevens 


Last  November,  with  a  TV  experience  of  only  two 
minor  roles,  Inger  Stevens  stepped  into  her  first 
major  acting  assignment  on  the  Goodyear  Playhouse. 
Overnight,  she  was  hailed  as  "an  exciting  new  actress" 
and  was  deluged  with  handsome  TV  offers.    Since 
then,  she  has  starred  successfully  in  such  leading 
dramatic  shows  as  Armstrong  Circle  Theater,  Danger, 
Kraft  TV  Theater  and  Robert  Montgomery  Presents. 
Only  20  years  old,  Inger  was  born  in  Stockholm, 
Sweden,  and  came  to  this  country  when  she  was  9. 
During  her  childhood,  she  traveled  all  over  the  world 
with  her  father,  who  is  head  of  Adult  Education  at 
Texas  Technological  College.  While  studying  at  Kansas 
State  University,  Inger  tested  her  acting  wings  in 
little-theater  work.  Then  last  July,  right  after  gradua- 
tion, she  came  to  New  York  to  launch  her  career. 
During  the  summer  she  toured  New  England  in  stock 
roles,  with  Signe  Hasso  and  Gypsy  Rose  Lee.  In  August, 
she  returned  to  New  York  to  make  her  TV  debut — a 
bit  part  in  a  Studio  One  production.  Next  came  a 
small  role  on  the  Jamie  series,  then  her  star -making 
part  on  Goodyear  Playhouse.    A  warm,  sincere  and 
lovable  person,  Inger  is  completely  wrapped  up  in  her 
work.  She  has  an  apartment  in  New  York,  and  some- 
day, she  says,  she  would  like  to  get  married  and  raise 
a  family,  but,  at  the  present,  her  whole  life  is 
acting — the  more  she  can  do,  the  happier  she  is. 


who's  who  in 


*^W 


/ 


William  Redfield 


Tall,  blond  and  blue-eyed  William  Redfield  sports  a 
perennially  youthful  air  that  belies  his  varied  and 
extensive  experience.     Born  into  an  old  theatrical 
family — his  father  was  a  well-known  orchestra  leader 
and  his  mother  was  one  of  Florenz  Ziegfeld's  glorified 
beauties — young  Bill  was  thoroughly  and  expertly 
groomed  for  his  career.    In  1936,  at  the  age  of  nine,  he 
began  his  apprenticeship  on  the  Broadway  stage  in 
"Swing  Your  Lady."  The  following  year,  he  appeared  in 
"Excursion,"  "Virginia"  and  "Stop-Over."    Then  came 
his  first  big  role,  the  lead  in  "Snafu."    World  War  II 
interrupted  Bill's  promising  career  for  18  months,  but 
immediately  after  his  discharge  from  the  Infantry 
he  was  back  on  Broadway,  appearing  in  the  title  role 
of  "Barefoot  Boy  with  Cheek."     Since  then,  he  has 
played  outstanding  roles  in  many  Broadway  hits, 
including  "Junior  Miss,"  "Miss  Liberty,"  "Out  of  This 
World,"  and  "Misalliance."     In  television,  he  has 
starred  on  almost  every  major  dramatic  program,  from 
U.S.  Steel  Hour  and  Producer's  Showcase  to  Suspense 
and  Justice.  A  quiet,  studious  actor,  Bill  most  enjoys 
listening  to  good  music  when  he  isn't  memorizing 
scripts.     He  expresses  a  preference  for  TV  acting 
because  "you  can  work  for  more  intimate  effects.    The 
camera  can  do  a  lot  for  you  and  you  for  it."    And,  he 
adds  with  a  grin,  "In  TV,  you  get  more  nights  off." 


Henry  Jones 


Whenever  a  program  such  as  Suspense,  Kraft  TV 
Theater,  Robert  Montgomery  Presents  or  Danger 
has  need  of  a  villain,  it's  a  safe  bet  that  Henry  Jones 
will  be  called  upon  to  fill  the  bill.    Although  he  states 
a  preference  for  comedy  roles,  Henry's  many  fine, 
sinister  roles  force  him  to  add  wistfully,  "I  guess  I  am 
a  villain."   Behind  the  scenes,  however,  the  genial 
Mr.  Jones  leads  a  normal,  pleasant  life.     He  and  his 
wife  Judy  and  their  children — David,  9,  and  Jocelyn, 
5 — live  in  New  Hope,  Pennsylvania,  in  what  Henry 
describes  as  "just  an  old  house  on  the  Delaware 
River."     There,  too,  reside  an  Afghan  hound  named 
Asia  and  a  gray  cat  called  Mouse.  For  a  hobby,  Henry 
says  laughingly,  "I  mess  around  with  oil  paints — 
portraits    mostly."     Born    in    Philadelphia,    Henry 
received  his  B.A.  at  St.  Joseph's  College  and  acquired 
early   dramatic  training   at   Philadelphia's   famous 
Hedgerow  Theater.    His  Broadway  debut  in  1938  was 
something  he'll  always  remember:  He  played  the 
Second  Gravedigger  in  Maurice  Evans'  uncut  version 
of  "Hamlet,"  which  took  five  hours  to  perform.  Since 
then,  Henry  has  delighted  theater  audiences  in  such 
hits  as  "My  Sister  Eileen,"  "This  Is  the  Army,"  "The 
Solid  Gold  Cadillac,"  and,  most  recently,  "The  Bad 
Seed."  Because  of  his  many  stage  and  TV  commitments. 
Henry  keeps  an  apartment  in  New  York — but  he 
prefers  New  Hope,  where  he  can  be  a  family  man. 


TV  dramas 


Eileen  Heckart 


Although  today  Eileen  Heckart  is  highly  touted  for 
her  fine  acting,  she  well  remembers  her  dis- 
appointing high-school  days  in  Columbus,  Ohio,  when 
she  wasn't  even  cast  in  the  senior  class  play.     But 
later,  at  Ohio  State  University,  her  ambition  and  talent 
were  justly  rewarded  with  a  series  of  major  roles 
in  college  productions.     In  1942,  after  receiving  her 
B.A. — and  marrying  her  college  beau,  Jack  Yankee — 
Eileen  ventured  to  New  York,  where  she  made  her 
radio  debut:  Giving  the  commercial  on  The  Goldbergs. 
On  Broadway,  her  first  theater  engagement  was  as  an 
understudy  in  "The  Voice  of  the  Turtle."    Then  came 
roles  in  "In  Any  Language,"  "Hilda  Crane,"  and  "The 
Traitor."     For  her  schoolteacher  role  in  "Picnic," 
Eileen  received  the  Outer  Circle  Award  and  a  Theater 
World   citation.     Most  recently,   she  received   rave 
notices  for  her  role  as  the  drunken  mother  in  "The 
Bad  Seed."    A  nine-year  veteran  of  television,  Eileen 
has  consistently  delighted  audiences  with  roles  on 
most  of  the  dramatic  shows.  One  performance  she  gave, 
in  1953,  on  the  Philco  Playhouse,  was  so  moving  that 
Marlene  Dietrich  sent  her  orchids.     In  1954,  she  won 
the  Sylvania  TV  Award  as  the  "most  outstanding 
character  actress."  Off-stage  and  camera,  Eileen  keeps 
house  in  Connecticut  and  plays  wife  to  her  husband 
Jack,   a   real-estate   broker,   and   mother   to   sons 
Marc,  3,  and  7-month-old  Philip. 


SIX  FELLOWS  AND  A  DOG 

On  couch:  Danny  O'Day,  Jimmy  Nelson,  Humphrey  Higsbye.  Down  in  front:  Farfel  the  pooch,  Lee,  Larry  and  Jerry  Nelson. 


It's  a  great  life  for  Jimmy  Nelson,  his  three  sons — 

and  the  three  members  of  Jimmy's  "mahogany  family" 


66 


Personal   pleasure:  The   only  time  Jimmy   "talks  for"   his  real-life  youngsters  is  when  he  reads  them  to  sleep. 

By  GWEN  AULIS 


In  a  bingo  game  at  an  outdoor  carnival  in  Chicago, 
one  night  about  sixteen  years  ago,  a  shy,  blond, 
ten-year-old  boy  named  Jimmy  Nelson  won  a 
dummy  ...  a  "department  store"  dummy,  a  kid's 
toy  costing  but  a  fraction  of  the  astronomical  figure 
professionals  pay  for  their  like-as-life  little  wooden- 
headed  partners.  But  Jimmy  happily  named  his 
small  dummy  "Danny  O'Day,"  and  started  working 
with  him. 

How  great  the  grown-up  Jimmy  is,  these  days, 
everyone  knows  who  has  ever  watched  television. 
Last  summer,  he  was  the  ventriloquiz-master  on 
NBC -TV's  Bank  On  The  Stars  and,  more  recently, 


headliner  of  his  own  series,  Come  Closer,  over 
ABC -TV.  And  he's  certainly  no  stranger  to  radio, 
with  his  highly  popular  program,  this  past  season, 
over  the  ABC  Radio  network. 

Seated  within  arm's  reach  of  Jimmy  and  his 
"mahogany  family"  (which  is  the  way  Jimmy  refers 
to  the  Messrs.  O'Day,  Higsbye  and  Farfel),  I  real- 
ized how  uncanny  young  Nelson  is,  in  face-to-face 
close-up.  There,  in  the  broad  daylight,  debonair 
Danny  O'Day,  Humphrey  Higsbye  at  his  most  Ches- 
terfieldian,  and  Farfel,  the  sad-eyed  pooch,  sat  talk- 
ing to  me.  They  spoke  to  me  separately,  one  at  a 
time.    They  talked  in  unison,  one  interrupting  the 


See   Next  Page 


Professional  problems:  Dapper  Danny's  wardrobe  comes   high — and  ventriloquist  Jimmy  practices   constantly. 


SIX  FELLOWS  AND  A  DOG 


(Continued) 


other.  They  sang.  They  sang  solo.  They  sang  as  a 
trio.  Dummies?  Perhaps.  But  there  wasn't  a  quiver, 
nor  the  ghost  of  a  quiver,  of  Jimmy's  smooth,  mo- 
tionless lips. 

But  there  was  a  quiver,  an  eerie  chill,  up  and  down 
my  spine.  Chafing  my  hands  for  warmth,  I  asked 
the  slim,  relaxed  young  man:  "Do  you  think  of  Danny 
and  the  others  as  real?    As — well,  as  alive?" 

There  was  a  pause.  A  silence.  There  was  what 
appeared  to  be  a  question  in  Jimmy's  blue  eyes. 
For  Pete's  sake,  I  found  myself  thinking  uneasily, 
doesn't  he  know,  either?    Isn't  he  quite  sure? 

"When  I'm  working  with  them,"  Jimmy  said,  finally 
breaking  the  silence,  "I  think  of  them  as  people.  On 
stage — with  Danny  on  one  side  of  me,  Humphrey  on 
the  other,  and,  of  course,  Farfel — we're  three  fellows 
and  a  dog. 

"For  instance,  take  one  time  when  I  was  working 
at  the  Hotel  Flamingo  in  Las  Vegas.  Betty  Norman, 
the  young  singer,  was  working  with  me  at  the  time. 
One  of  our  numbers  was  a  song  routine  which  the 
whole  unit  sang,  a  line  at  a  time.  That  is,  Betty  took 
the  first  line,  I  sang  the  second,  then  Danny  and  so 
on,  until  it  came  Humphrey's  turn.  But  Humphrey 
didn't  take  his  turn.  We  waited  for  him.  We  all 
waited  for  Humphrey  to  sing,  including  me.  I  waited," 
said  Jimmy,  matter-of-factly,  "just  like  everyone 
else!  Offstage,  though,  I  don't  carry  it  that  far — not 
yet,  at  any  rate.    Nope,  they  go  back  into  a  suitcase. 

"When  I  was  a  kid  working  in  theaters  and  clubs 
around  Chicago,  I  picked  up  (Continued  on  page  90) 


Even  with  candelabra,   Danny  O'Day  and  Jimmy 
don't  think  too  much  of  Humphrey's  piano  playing. 


Mealtime  for  the  young  Nelsons:  Danny  supervises  Jimmy's  service,  Humphrey  presides — and  Farfel  broods. 

_ 


68 


Dorothy  Collins 

(Continued  jrom  page  44) 
tried;  the  first  time  I've  talked  about  the 
baby — for  publication,  that  is.  Remember 
when  you  wanted  to  do  a  story  with  me 
for  TV  Radio  Mirror,  soon  after  we  knew 
we  were  going  to  have  a  baby,  and  I  said 
that  I  couldn't,  I  didn't  dare?  I  didn't  dare. 
We  wanted  a  baby  so  much,  I  was  super- 
stitious. I  just  felt  that,  if  I  talked  about 
it  .  .  .  made  too  many  plans  for  it  .  .  . 
something,   God  forbid,  might  happen! 

"Ever  since  I  was  a  little  girl,"  said  the 
still  little  (102-pounds-little)  girl,  "I've  al- 
ways loved  babies.  At  home  in  Windsor, 
Ontario,  my  favorite  occupation  was  to 
help  care  for  the  neighborhood  babies  .  .  . 
help  bathe  them,  you  know,  play  with 
them,  feed  them  and,  best  of  all,  sing  them 
to  sleep.  I  guess  lullabies  were  probably 
the  first  songs  I  ever  sang,"  said  the  small 
singing  star  with  orchestra-leader  Scott 
on  Your  Hit  Parade  over  NBC-TV.  "And 
to  sing  them  now — "  Dorothy  touched  the 
silky  black  head — "is  .  .  .  well,  is  about 
the  only  way,  I  guess,  I  can  put  what  I 
feel  into  words! 

"  'Because  I  love  babies  so  much,'  I  used 
to  say  to  my  mother,  'I  just  bet  that  I 
won't   ever  have   one!' 

"Patting  my  young  head,  Mama  would 
answer  comfortably,  'I  wouldn't  worry — 
not  yet  a  while  anyway!' 

"But  I  did  worry.  After  Raymond  and  I 
were  married,  and  so  happy,  I  worried  all 
the  more.  I  began  to  think:  Well,  you  can't 
have  everything,  can  you?  Having  Ray- 
mond, our  work  together  ...  so  happy  in 
love,  happy  at  work  .  .  .  all  this  and  a 
baby,  too?  Oh,  golly,  I  thought,  not  likely! 
But  this  didn't  stop  me  from  hoping  and 
praying  all  the  more  fervently.  For  now  it 
wasn't  just  me — now  there  were  two  of  us 
wanting  a  baby.  .  .  ." 

At  this  moment,  the  nurse  came  in  to 
take  the  baby.  Dorothy's  hazel  eyes  fol- 
lowed the  small  hobbling  head  out  of 
sight,  as  she  added,  "It  was  pretty  silly 
of  me  to  worry,  come  to  think  of  it,  wasn't 
it?  It's  just  that  when  you  want  some- 
thing so  much,  I  guess  you  just  can't  be- 
lieve that  it  can  happen  to  you.  .  .  . 

"So  when,  after  my  visit  to  Dr.  Colman, 
my  obstetrician,  who  lives  in  Forest  Hills, 
Long  Island — and  I  wish  every  girl  in  the 
world  could  have  him — I  knew  we  were 
going  to  have  our  baby,"  Dorothy  laughed, 
"I  was  positively  delirious!  About  an  hour 
later,  I  met  Raymond  in  New  York  and, 
when  I  told  him  what  Dr.  Colman  had  told 
me,  two  people  more  out  of  this  world  .  .  . 
and  up  there  on  a  big,  bright,  shining  pink 
cloud  .   .  .  you  have  never  seen! 

"Even  then — after  the  doctor  had  told 
me,  almost  to  the  day,  when  my  baby 
would  be  born — I  couldn't  believe  this  was 
happening  to  me!  Dr.  Colman  said  he'd 
never  in  his  life  known  anyone  so  ex- 
cited over  having  a  baby  as  I  was.  And  I 
never  knew  anyone  so  happy  or  so  utterly 
content  as  I  was  when  .  .  .  after  feeling 
life  ...  I  didn't  doubt  any  more.  For  then, 
you  know.  .  .  . 

"Even  morning  sickness  .  .  .  and  mine 
lasted  from  morning  to  night  and,  my 
goodness,  for  the  better  part  of  five  months 
.  .  .  was  merely  a  minor  discomfort  com- 
pared with  the  reason  for  it — especially  as 
Raymond  shared  it  with  me.  I  mean  it," 
Dorothy  laughed,  "he  really  did!  When  I 
felt  sick,  Raymond  felt  sick.  When  I 
couldn't  eat,  he  couldn't  eat.  There  just 
isn't  anyone  nicer  than  Raymond,"  Doro- 
thy said,  and  the  words  came  from  her 
heart,   "not  anywhere. 

"But  I  believe  it  was  after  I  was  told 
by  my  mother  and  some  of  my  girl  friends 
that  persistent  nausea  often  means  a  girl 


WHETHER  YOU  BRUSH  YOUR  TEETH 
0N1Y  ONCE,TWICE,OR  3  TIMES  A  DAY 

Colgate  Dental  Cieam 
Gives  The  Surest  Protection 


All  Day  Long! 


jS&&CluAJ&  0n,y  New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 
-Of  All  Leading  Toothpastes- Contains  GARDOL* 
To  Stop  Bad  Breath  Instantly . .  Guard  Against  Tooth  Decay  Longer! 


Gardol,  Colgate's  wonderful  new 
decay-fighter,  forms  an  invisible 
shield  around  your  teeth.  You 
can't  feel  it,  taste  it,  or  see  it— 
but  Gardol's  protection  won't 
rinse  off  or  wear  off  all  day. 
That's  why  Colgate's— the  only 
leading  toothpaste  to  contain 
Gardol— gives  the  surest  pro- 
tection ever  offered  by  any 
toothpaste! 


Your  dentist  will  tell  you  how  often  you 
should  brush  your  teeth.  But  whether 
that's  once,  twice,  or  three  times  a  day,  be 
sure  you  use  New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 
with  Gardol!  Colgate's  stops  bad  breath 
instantly  in  7  out  of  10  cases  that  originate 
in  the  mouth!  Fights  tooth  decay  12  hours 
or  more!  In  fact,  clinical  tests  showed  the 
greatest  reduction  in  tooth  decay  in  tooth- 
paste history! 


Every  Time  You  Use  ft.. 

CLEANS  YOUR  BREATH 


♦Colgate's  Trade-Mark  For  Sodium 
N-lauToyl  Sarcosinate. 


New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 
^GUARDS  YOUR  TEETH! 


69 


70 


that  I  began  to  get  over  mine,"  Dorothy 
laughed,  "for,  when  Raymond  wanted  a 
girl  so  much — and  he  wanted  a  girl  very 
much— I  wanted  one  for  him.  And  I  was 
so  afraid  he'd  be  disappointed  that,  all 
during  my  pregnancy,  I  kept  talking  about 
'our  son,'  who  was  to  be  named  Mark 
Edward  Scott— Mark  for  Raymond's  broth- 
er, Edward  for  my  father  and  brother. 
When  we  got  around  to  discussing  a  name 
for  a  girl — in  the  event  (the  unlikely 
event)  we  should  have  a  girl — we  con- 
sulted one  of  the  name  books  that  go  from 
Abigail  to  Zenobia.  Starting  with  the  A's, 
we  kept  going  until  we  got  to  the  D's  .  .  . 
and  when  we  came  to  Deborah,  we  said 
in  unison,  'This  is  it!'  But  it  was  as  'our 
son'  that  I  referred  to  the  baby  .  .  .  until, 
at  12:22  P.M.,  October  24,  1954,  our  baby 
was  born! 

"Those  four  words,  'our  baby  was  born,' 
taste  like  sugar  candy!"  Dorothy  laughed. 
"And,  when  she  was  born — the  first  time 
I  saw  her  after  she  was  born — will  I  ever 
forget  it!  At  the  North  Shore  Hospital  in 
Manhasset,  Long  Island,  where  I  had 
Deborah,  they  don't  show  you  your  baby 
until  the  day  after  the  birth.  But  I  woke 
up  at  4  A.M.,  the  morning  after,  thinking: 
If  I  don't  see  my  baby,  I'm  going  to  die! 
When  I  told  my  nurse,  'I  must  see  her, 
really  I  must,  I  can't  wait,'  she  said  that 
the  nursing  mothers  are  given  their  babies 
at  6  A.M.,  and  that  she  would  see  what 
she  could  do.  Two  hours  to  wait  ...  I 
folded  my  hands  and  bided  my  soul  in  im- 
patience," Dorothy  laughed,  "for  that  was 
a  lo-o-o-ng  two  hours!  But  at  last  it  was 
six  o'clock.  And  at  six,  on  the  tick,  I  saw 
her  for  the  first  time  .  .  .  held  her  for  the 
first  time  .  .  .  and  did,  I  suppose,  what  all 
new  mothers  do — examined  her  from  head 
to  toes.  She  was  perfect,  absolutely  per- 
fect .  .  .  although,  just  for  a  second,  her 
little  crumply  feet  looked  so — so  crowded, 
I  thought  she  had  six  toes  on  each!  She 
didn't,"  Dorothy  laughed.  "She  has  just 
the  normal  set  of  ten,  and  hair  so  long  I 
could  have  curled  it,  and  hands  just  like 
Raymond's — and  he  has  such  beautiful 
hands,  fine,  yet  strong — oh,  what  a  feeling 
it  is,  what  an  impossible-to-describe  feel- 
ing it  is  .  .  .  your  first  baby,  safely  here, 
in  your  arms,  and  perfect! 

"No,  I  didn't  have  any  fear  while  I  was 
carrying  her  .  .  .  except,  as  I've  said,  that 
something  might  happen  to  this  somefhing- 
too-good-to-be-true  ...  no  fear  at  all.  I 
wasn't  weepy.  During  the  whole  nine 
months,  I  cried  only  once — I'll  tell  you 
why  in  a  minute.  I  wasn't  afraid  of  labor, 
not  in  the  least.  My  doctor  wouldn't  let  me 
suffer,  I  knew  that,  and  he  didn't.  He  also 
gave  me  a  book  titled  Expectant  Mother- 
hood, which  I  heartily  recommend  to  all 
E.M.'s — for,  any  time  you  have  a  little 
backache  or  a  twinge,  all  you  need  do  is 
turn  to  the  book  to  find  out  you're  having 
exactly  what  you're  supposed  to  be  having 
at  that  time.  On  the  very  few  occasions 
I  referred  to  it,"  Dorothy  smiled,  "I  was 
always  having  exactly  what  I  was  sup- 
posed to  be  having,  and  when! 

"I  loved  being  an  expectant  mother,"  the 
practically  brand-new  young  mother  said 
(and  didn't  need  to  say).  "I  enjoyed  it.  I 
enjoyed  going  to  the  doctor  every  month. 
I  enjoyed  buying  the  maternity  clothes  I 
didn't  need — which  surprised  me — until  my 
seventh  month.  I  enjoyed  working  on  the 
show,  queasy  as  I  often  felt,  until  the  end 
of  my  sixth  month.  The  time  I  cried,  the 
one  and  only  time,  was  when,  my  last  night 
on  the  show,  Snooky  Lanson,  Gisele  Mac- 
Kenzie  ...  all  the  kids,  all  the  stage- 
hands .  .  .  everyone  came  up  to  me,  telling 
me,  'Good  luck!  God  bless  you!  God  take 
care  of  you!'  But  it  was  a  happy  crying. 

"At  the  beginning  of  my  seventh  month, 
I  played  a  three-week  engagement  at  The 
Thunderbird  in  Las  Vegas  as  I'd  contracted 
to  do,  when  I  sang  there  the  summer  be- 


fore, the  summer  of  '53.  When  I  found  out 
I  was  going  to  have  a  baby,  I  hadn't  sup- 
posed they'd  want  me.  But  when  I  called 
Mr.  Hal  Brandes,  the  owner  of  The  Thun- 
derbird, to  say  I  wouldn't  be  able  to  make 
it  this  summer — and  why — Mr.  Brandes 
said  he  wanted  to  take  the  chance.  If,  when 
I  arrived — or  at  any  time  thereafter — I  felt 
unable  to  go  on,  I  could  cancel  out,  he  said. 
He  was  so  nice  and  kind  and  understand- 
ing that  Raymond  and  I  flew  out  and  I 
opened  at  The  Thunderbird.  Sang  almost 
every  song  I  knew,"  Dorothy  said,  "but  no 
song  had  anything  to  do  with  a  baby.  It 
was  suggested  that  I  include  one  'baby' 
song  ...  a  lullaby,  perhaps  .  .  .  but  I 
didn't.  I  couldn't.  It  would  have  seemed — 
well,   sort   of  commercial. 

"It  was  while  I  was  in  Las  Vegas — al- 
though, fortunately,  not  until  my  last  week 
there — that  I  began  to  show,  to  get  pretty 
large.  So  large  that,  when  I  got  back  and 
went  to  the  doctor  for  the  first  time 
in  over  a  month,  he  said,  'My  goodness, 
the  baby  is  so  big,  I'm  going  to  look  for 
twins.' 

"Twins!  I  felt  a  thrill,  I  felt  two  thrills 
go  up  and  down  my  spine! 

"But  I  didn't  say  anything.  Not  a  word. 
I  couldn't.  After  the  doctor  had  X-rayed 
.  .  .  and  while  he  was  developing  the  nega- 
tives ...  I  just  sat  there  waiting,  tense, 


•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

BUY  U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 
AND  INVEST  IN  YOUR  FUTURE 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


trembling,  and  hoping.  For,  if  anything  in 
this  world  could  be  more  wonderful  than 
a  baby  it  would  be,  I  was  thinking,  two 
babies!  And  it  could  be,  I  suddenly  re- 
alized, they  could  be.  I  myself  was  a  twin. 
My  twin,  also  a  girl,  died  at  birth.  My 
mother's  sister  had  twins.  Twins  'run  in 
families.'  They  run,  I  thought,  my  heart 
beating  a  fast  tattoo,  in  mine. 

"Then  the  doctor  told  me:  T  can  find  only 
one.  But,'  he  added,  as  my  face  fell,  'a  very 
nice  one  and,  guessing  by  the  size,  a  boy!' 

"After  I  got  back  from  Las  Vegas,  I 
didn't  work  any  more.  Stayed  home.  Loved 
that,  too.  Loved  that  best  of  all.  If  Ray- 
mond and  I  didn't  work  together,  I 
wouldn't  want  to  work  at  all.  I'm  afraid," 
Dorothy  smiled  her  bright,  endearing 
smile,  "I'm  not  exactly  a  dedicated  career 
girl.  Not  rabidly  ambitious — for  anything, 
that  is,  except  home  and  happiness.  I  love 
staying  home.  So  I  had  a  really  blissful 
two  months.  I  read.  Took  naps.  And  walks. 
Friends  came  out  to  see  us.  And  we  moved 
.  .  .  had  to  move  from  the  old  house  in 
Babylon,  with  its  feet  in  the  Great  South 
Bay.  It  had  been  built  by  a  sea  captain 
and  we— being  nautical-minded — loved  it 
so  much.  But  it  was  a  fun  house.  For  Ray- 
mond and  me,  it  was  a  perfect  house. 
Under  its  roof,  Raymond  had  his  model 
shop  for  the  development  work  he  does  in 
electronics,  his  dark  room  for  the  work  he 
does  in  photography,  his  woodworking 
shop.  Upstairs,  he  had  his  ham  radio  set 
(which  took  up  half  of  the  huge  room) 
and  the  musical  'Memory  Machine'  he  has 
invented.  But  with  its  three  ship's  cabins 
for  bedrooms — and  they  were  indeed  ship's 
cabins,  measuring  some  12  x  14  each — and 
all  the  baths  downstairs — it  was  not  a 
house  for  a   baby. 

"We  were  lucky,  though,  to  be  able  to 
rent  this  very  pretty  house  in  Bright- 
waters,  all  sunny  and  chintzy  and  new- 
baby  looking  as  it  is  .  .  .  especially  lucky, 
since  we  can  look  out  the  windows  and 
see  the  masts  and  spars  of  ships  riding  at 


anchor  on  the  inlet  of  the  Bay.  In  the 
meantime,  we're  looking  for  a  house  to  buy 
and  think  we've  found  one.  A  big  white 
house — also  on  the  water — big  enough  for 
Raymond  to  have  his  model  shop  and  all 
his  equipment,  big  enough  for  the  baby 
.  .  .  and  for,  we  hope,  more  babies.  .  .  . 

"During  the  two  months  I  spent  at  home, 
I  missed  being  with  Raymond  on  the  show, 
I  missed  the  kids  on  the  show.  But  I  got  a 
kick  out  of  watching  the  show,  I  really 
did!  Only  I'd  like  to  see  more  of  Raymond 
on  the  screen,  I  really  would! 

"No,  I  didn't  sew.  Or,  since  you  ask," 
Dorothy  made  a  cute  and  funny  face, 
"knit  'tiny  garments.'  I  wouldn't  even  at- 
tempt to  take  needle,  of  any  kind,  in 
hand!  I  knitted  a  scarf  once — most  horrible 
thing  you  ever  saw!  I  didn't  shop  for  a 
layette,  either.  Partly  because  of  my  super- 
stitious fear  about  making  plans  .  .  .  part- 
ly because  I  wanted  my  mom  to  buy  the 
basic  things — shirts,  nighties  and  so  on — 
for  her  first  grandchild  (I  knew  she'd  get 
a  kick  out  of  that!)  .  .  .  but  also — a  very 
big  also — because  the  kids  on  the  show 
gave  me  a  surprise  shower,  which  show- 
ered Debbie  with  a  layette  such  as  only 
a  little  princess  could  hope  to  have! 

"They  were  really  clever  about  it,  too. 
They  fooled  me  by  telling  me  a  disc  jockey 
wanted  to  interview  me.  How  about  doing 
the  interview  at  Ruth  Lawrence's  apart- 
ment in  town — Ruth  is  one  of  the  dancers 
on  the  show — which  would  make  it  easy 
and  convenient  for  me?  When  I  arrived  at 
Ruth's  apartment,  all  unsuspecting,  there 
they  all  were,  yelling  'Surprise!'  And  such 
surprises,  plural!  Beautiful  baby  blankets 
from  the  Snooky  Lansons.  A  wonderful 
little  lamp,  blankets  and  a  great  big  floppy 
rag  doll,  with  the  silliest  face  in  the  world, 
from  Gisele.  Lovely  little  dresses,  whole 
complete  outfits,  too,  pillows,  toys,  silver 
.  .  .  including  the  most  beautiful  silver 
'starter  set'  from  Sweden — knife,  fork  and 
spoon — which  the  stagehands  on  the  show 
got  together  and  sent  me.  That  touched 
me  more  than  anything.  So  many  things, 
and  still  they're  coming,  and  from  all  over 
the  country,  many  of  them  from  fans  who 
must  feel,  as  I  do,  that  we're  friends. 

"One  of  Debbie's  latest  gifts,"  said  Deb- 
bie's mom,  looking  awed,  "is  a  sterling 
silver  toothbrush.  'This,'  I  said,  when  I 
unwrapped  it,  'is  The  End!' 

"Viewing  the  silver  toothbrush,  Ray- 
mond said,  'She's  got  so  much,  and  is  go- 
ing to  get  so  much,  that  what  we  must 
learn  to  do  is — give  her  love  freely,  with- 
out stint  or  question,  but  none  of  the  ma- 
terial things,  later  on,  without  her  earning 
them.' 

"Raymond  is  very  wise,"  said  Raymond 
Scott's  double-threat  singing  star  and 
wife,  "in  everything  he  does,  everything 
he  says.  Talking  one  night,  before  the  baby 
was  born,  about  what  he  (or,  just  pos- 
sibly, she!)  would  be  when  grown  up, 
Raymond  said,  'We're  not  even  going  to 
look  for  talent,  because — if  talent  is 
around — you  can't  help  but  see  it.' 

"So  you  can't,"  Dorothy  said,  "and  we're 
not  going  to  look  for  it,  or  for  anything 
except  her  health  and  happiness  and  the 
normal,  little-girl  life  we  want  her  to 
lead.  We're  not  going  to  spoil  her,  either. 
It  is  going  to  be  terribly  hard,"  said  Doro- 
thy, fetching  a  deep-down  sigh,  "not  to 
.  .  .  but,  although  I'm  not  as  wise  as  Ray- 
mond, I'm  wise  enough  to  know  that  a 
spoiled  child  is  not  an  attractive  child. 

"To  repeat  myself,  so  wise  is  Raymond, 
so  controlled  and  such  a  precisionist  .  .  . 
but  what  became  of  Raymond's  wisdom, 
control  and  precision,  where  did  it  go," 
Dorothy  laughed  aloud,  "in  the  early  hours 
of  the  morning  of  October  24?  Out  the 
window,  or  wherever!  I  can  only  tell  you 
that,  in  those  hours,  Raymond — who  isn't 
like  any  other  man — became  every  hus- 
band   whose    wife    is    about   to   have    her 


first  baby.  But  let  me  tell  you:  It  was  a 
Saturday  night.  Raymond  had  done  the 
show.  He  got  home,  and  to  bed  about  1 
A.M.  At  ten  minutes  to  three,  I  wakened 
him,  saying:  'Let's  go,  dear,  this  is  it!' 
It  must  have  been  close  to  five  when — 
dressed,  and  with  last-minute  things  at- 
tended to — we  sneaked  out  of  the  house, 
not  wanting  to  awaken  my  mom  and  dad, 
who  were  with  us  for  the  weekend.  And 
none  too  soon,  either.  For  although  Ray- 
mond had  made  the  drive  from  our  house 
in  Brightwaters  to  the  hospital  in  Man- 
hassett  three  times — the  last  time  a  sort 
of  'refresher'  course  just  to  make  sure 
he'd  know  the  way  in  the  dark — he  lost 
his  way  that  night!"  Dorothy  said,  sound- 
ing no  end  amused.  "Not  for  long.  But  any 
length  of  time  was,  under  the  circum- 
stances, long  enough!  And  in  the  car,  all 
the  way — both  right  and  wrong  way — he 
held  my  hand  so  tightly,  he  paralyzed  it. 
'Please,  dear!'  I  had  to   say. 

"Then  we  were  at  the  hospital.  And  I, 
in  a  wheelchair  (I  was  so  embarrassed) 
was  going  up  in  the  elevator.  Then  I  was 
in  the  delivery  room,  with  Dr.  Colman 
smiling  down  at  me.  Then  I  remember 
two  pains,  only  two — and  that,  for  me,  was 
it!  When  I  came  to,  still  in  the  delivery 
room,  three  men — Dr.  Colman,  the  an- 
esthetist and  the  pediatrician — were  smil- 
ing down  at  me.  Before  I  had  time  to  ask 
the  fateful  question,  Dr.  Colman  was  say- 
ing, 'Do  you  know  that  you  have  a  beau- 
tiful little  girl?' 

"A  girl! 

"Then  I  must  have  drifted  off  again,  for 
all  I  can  remember  is  thinking  drowsily, 
How  happy  Raymond  will  be.  .  .  . 

"When,  an  hour  or  so  later,  I  saw  Ray- 
mond, he  stood  by  my  bed  beaming.  He 
just  beamed.  It  does  seem,"  Dorothy  said, 
with  a  twinkle,  "that  brand-new  parents 
should  utter  famous  first  words — for  the 


record,  you  know.  But  my  famous  first 
words  were:  'It's  a  girl.'  To  which  Ray- 
mond's epic  answer  was:    'I  know.'" 

As  if  on  cue,  it  was  at  this  moment  that 
Raymond  came  in  and,  smiling  his  singu- 
larly attractive  smile,  which  is  as  kind  as 
it  is  charming,  said,  "I  did  know.  But  I 
think  I  must  have  said  'I  know'  with 
something  like  awe,  for — since  I'd  been 
anticipating  a  boy — I  was  finding  it  hard 
to  believe.  All  the  experts  had  said  a  boy. 
And,  during  the  year  before  Debbie's  birth, 
eight  or  nine  babies  of  people  we  know 
had  been  girls.  The  law  of  averages  oper- 
ating as  it  does,  I'd  made  up  my  mind  to 
a  boy." 

As  an  expectant  father,  Father  Scott  said 
he'd  had  rather  a  grim  time  of  it:  "All  the 
time  Dorothy  was  in  labor — the  six  hours 
that  seemed  like  six  years — I  kept  my  eye 
on  the  door  of  the  delivery  room.  Kept  my 
eye  glued  to  that  door,"  Raymond  said,  as 
if  amused,  but  still  only  half-amused,  at 
himself,  "until  I  heard  someone  suggest 
that,  if  I  would  take  my  eyes  off  the  door, 
just  for  a  minute,  it  might  open!  I  have 
no  idea  who  the  someone  was,  unless  it 
was  the  other  expectant  father  who  was 
keeping  the  vigil  with  me.  This  makes 
sense,  I  thought,  remembering  that  'a 
watched  pot  never  boils.'  So,  for  one  mo- 
ment, I  looked  away.  In  that  moment,  I 
heard  a  woman's  voice  asking,  'Don't  you 
want  to  see  your  baby?'  And  then,  into 
the  unbroken  silence,  'Aren't  you  going 
to  ask  what  it  is?' 

"  'Why,  yes,'  I  recall  saying,  rather  dis- 
interestedly— it  still  not  having  penetrated 
that  she  was  talking  to  me — 'what  is  it?' 

"Let's  just  say,"  Raymond  smiled,  "that 
I  wasn't  functioning  too  well,  if  at  all  .  .  . 
hadn't  been  for  some  hours  .  .  .  didn't  for 
some  hours  to  come.  When  I  left  the  hos- 
pital, I  found  that  I'd  left  the  lights  on  in 
the    car,    which    meant — considering    the 


number  of  hours  they'd  been  left  on — 
that  I  had  to  have  the  batteries  recharged. 
When  I  made  a  phone  call,  put  the  dime 
in  and  got  the  dial  tone,"  Raymond 
laughed,  "I  asked  dial  tone  for  the  num- 
ber! When  I  got  home,  I  'boiled'  eggs  in  a 
pot  with  no  water! 

"Happiness,"  Raymond  observed,  "goes 
to  the  head.  It  went  to  mine." 

Then,  in  answer  to  the  question  I'd  been 
waiting  to  ask — "But  why  did  you  want 
a  little  girl  so  much?" — Raymond  gave  an 
answer  every  wife  would  hope  to  hear 
from  every  husband: 

"Very  frequently,"  Raymond  said,  "a  girl 
is  very  much  like  the  mother,  and  this 
was  my  reason  for  wanting  a  little  girl . . . 
for  nothing  I  could  anticipate  would  be 
more  thrilling  than  to  have  another  little 
Dorothy  around — and  if,  as  we  hope,  we 
have  other  children,  as  many  little  Doro- 
thys as  possible! 

"Meanwhile,  our  hope  for  little  Debbie 
is  that  we  will  make  her  as  happy  as  she 
has  made  us." 

"There  just  isn't  anyone  nicer  than  Ray- 
mond," Dorothy  had  said,  "not  any- 
where. .  .  ." 

When,  on  Saturday,  November  20  .  .  . 
less  than  a  month  after  her  baby  was 
born  .  .  .  Dorothy  returned  to  the  show 
and  to  the  ovation  given  her  by  the  cast, 
by  the  stagehands  ...  by  all  the  kids  .  .  . 
the  first  song  she  sang  was  "Count  Your 
Blessings." 

"When  we  were  rehearsing,"  Dorothy 
told  me  the  next  day,  "I  couldn't  get 
through  the  song  without  crying.  I  didn't 
dare  think  of  Deborah,  or  I'd  be  off  again! 
I  always  feel  what  I  sing,  I  always  mean 
every  word  of  the  songs  I  sing  .  .  .  but 
never  more  so  than  when  I  was  singing 
'Count  Your  Blessings,'  meaning  every 
syllable  of  every  word  of  it  .  .  .  for  oh,  I 
do — thanking  God  as  I  do — count  mine!" 


WHITE  NYLON  GLOVES 

for  only    1  and  a  Suave  box  top! 


Double-Woven  Nylon — Looks  Like  Cotton  .  .  .  you  can'f  see  through  them !  Loofc 
at  these  features:  Wash  easily,  dry  fast,  never  shrink,  stay  snowy  white !  Smart 
medium  length,  paneled  fingers  for  finer  fit.  Whip  stitched  all  around,  nylon 
thread,  fully  hemmed.  Look  and  feel  like  nice  soft  cotton!  Dye  perfectly  to 
match  any  outfit.  Think  of  it!  These  are  a  famous  maker's  $2  top  quality 
nylon  gloves,  yours  today  for  only  $1*.  .  .  just  for  trying  new  Improved  Suave 
Hairdressing  and  Conditioner.  Order  several  pairs  for  wonderful  gifts  or  prizes. 
Enclose  Suave  box  top  and  dollar  for  each  pair. 

HURRY!   Get  several   pairs  while  limited  offer  lasts! 


MAIL     THIS     ORDER     BLANK     TODAY! 
Suave,   P.  O.  Box  785,   Chicago  90,   III. 

Send  me pair(s)  of  white  Nylon  Gloves.  I  enclose  a 

$1.00  bill  (no  checks,  stamps,  money  orders,  please)   and  a 
Suave  box  fop  for  each  pair  ordered.  Allow  3  weeks  delivery. 


Now!  Soft,  glowing  hair  in  20  seconds 

If  your  hair  is  dull,  dry  or  difficult  to 
manage,  'New  Improved  Suave  Hair- 
dressing  and  Conditioner  with  greaseless 
lanolin  will  beautify  and  condition  it  in 
20  seconds!  Try  it! 


ADDRESS 

(PRINT  PLAINLY) 

CITY 

6 

70NF               STATF 

T 

CIRCLE  SIZE 

6V2          7          7Vi          8 

V 
1 

V/B  PAY  POSTAGE!  Offer  good  only  in  U.S.A.,  is  subject  to  state  and 
Federal  regulations,  and  expires  November  1,  1955. 


71 


72 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Standard  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Local  Program 

8:55  It  Happens 
Every  Day2 

John  MacVane 
8:55  Betty  Crockert 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

10:45 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peale 
Joyce  Jordan 
Doctor's  Wife 

Break  The  Bank 

Cecil  Brown 

Guest  Time 
News 

10:35  Johnny 
Olsen  Show 

My  True  Story 

10:25  Whispering 
Streets 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:00 
11:15 

11:30 

11:45 

Strike  It  Rich 

Phrase  That  Pays 
Second  Chance 

Florida  Calling  With 

Tom  Moore 
11:25  Holland  Engle 
Oueen  For  A  Day 

Modern  Romances 
Companion 

Your  Neighbor's 

Voice 
Three-City  Byline 

Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 

Rosemary 

Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

Pauline  Frederick 
Reporting 

Break  The  Bank 

Capitol  Commentary 
with   Les   Higbie 

12:20  Down  At 
Holmesy's 

Valentino 
Frank  Farrell 

Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Aunt  Jenny 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

News,  Cedric  Foster 
Luncheon  At  Sardi's 
Ted  Steele  Show 

Paul  Harvey,  News 
Ted  Malone 

Road  Of  Life 
Ma  Perkins 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 
2:15 

2:30 
2:45 

Luncheon  With 

Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 

Hayes 
Wonderful  City 

Betty  Crockert 
2:35  Martin  Block 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 
Perry  Mason 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 
The  Brighter  Day 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

News 

3:05  Woman  In  Love 
Pepper  Young 
Right  To  Happiness 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Hilltop  House 
Art  Linkletter's 

House  Party 
Mike  &  Buff's 

Mailbag 

4:00 
4:15 

4:30 
4:45 

Backstage  Wife 
Stella  Dallas 

Young  Widder  Brown 
Woman  In  My  House 

Bruce  &  Dan 

Latin  Quarter 

Matinee 
4:25  Betty  Crockert 
Treasury  Bandstand 

Treasury   Bandstand 
4:55  News 

5:00 

5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Just  Plain  Bill 

Lorenzo  Jones 
Hotel  For  Pets 
It  Pays  To  Be 
Married 

Bobby  Benson2 

(Sgt.  Preston)i 
Bobby  Benson 

5:55  Cecil  Brown 

"T-TH  2M-W-F 

Musical  Express 

Fred  Beck 
Gloria  Parker 
Vincent  Lopez 

tT,  Th-Sheilah 
Graham 

5:05  John  Faulk 
5:55  This  1  Believe 

Monday 


Evening  Programs 


6:00 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Jackson  &  The  News 

6:15 

Sports  Daily  with 
Mel   Allen,  Russ 

East  Of  Athens 

6:30 

Hodges 

Bill  Stern.  Sports 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

George  Hicks,  News 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex  Dreier,  Man 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Vandercook,    News 

Tennessee  Ernie 

7:15 

On  The  Go 

Dinner  Date 

Quincy  Howe 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel   Heatter 

The  Lone  Ranger 

Choraliers 

7:45 

One   Man's   Family 

In  The  Mood 

7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 

Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 

Henry  J.  Taylor 

Top  Secret  Files 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 

8:15 

Best  Of  Ail 

American  Music  Hall 

8:30 

Broadway  Cop 

Voice  Of  Firestone 

Arthur  Godfrey's 

8:45 

Talent  Scouts 

9:00 

Telephone  Hour 

News,  Lyle  Van 

Metropolitan  Opera 
Auditions 

Perry  Como 

9:15 

Gil  Houston  Show 

9:25  News 

Bing  Crosby 

9:30 

Band  Of  America 

Reporters'  Roundup 

Freedom  Sings 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

9:45 

Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00 

Fibber  McGee  & 

Musical  Almanac 

News,  Edward  P. 

Orchestra 

Molly 

Morgan 

10:15  Great    Gildersleeve 

Richard  Rendell 

10:30 

Two  In  The  Balcony 

Martha  Lou  Harp 

Tuesday 


Evening   Programs 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 


9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


NBC 


Sports  Dally 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Lux  Radio  Theater 
Lux  Theater  (con.) 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Listen  To 

Washington 


MBS 
Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 

John  Steele, 
Adventurer 


News,  Lyle  Van 
Gil  Houston  Show 

Parade  Of  Sports 


Sports  (con.) 


ABC 
ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Silver  Eagle 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 
9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 

News 
Platterbrains 

9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 
Take  Thirty 


CBS 
Jackson  &  The  News 

Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 


Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Suspense 
8:25  News 
Mr.  Keen,  Tracer 
Of  Lost  Persons 


Rosemary  Clooney 
Bing  Crosby 

Amos  V  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Orchestra 


Wednesday 


Evening   Programs 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 


8:30 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 

News 

8:35  Barrie  Craig 


You  Bet  Your  Life 
Big  Story 


10:00 

10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Local  Program 


Fulton   Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Squad  Room 
Sentenced 


News,  Lyle  Van 
Gil  Houston  Show 
Parade  Of  Sports 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Keys  To  The  Capital 


Thursday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Sports  (con.) 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 

Brown  Oerby 
Record  Room 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 
Dunigans  &  Friends 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


FBI  In  Peace  And 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
21st  Precinct 


Perry  Como 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Evening   Programs 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Roy  Rogers 
Bob  Hope  Show 


News 

9:05  Spend  A  Million 
Where  Have  You 
Been? 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Great    Gildersleeve 
Jane  Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official   Detective 
Crime  Fighters 


News,  Lyle  Van 
Gil  Houston  Show 
Parade  Of  Sports 


Sports  (con.) 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Silver  Eagle 
7:55    Les    Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Serenade  Room 


Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 
Front  &  Center 


Orchestra 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


The  Whistler 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Night  Watch 


Rosemary  Clooney 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  V  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Evening   Programs 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 
Friday  With 
Garroway 


Garroway  (con.) 


Boxing-Cavalcade 
Of  Sports 

Sports  Highlights 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Counter-Spy 
Take  A  Number 


News,  Lyle  Van 
Gil  Houston  Show 
Search  That  Never 
Ends 


Family  Theater 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 

The  World  We 

Live  In 
9:55  Sport  Report 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 
Indoors  Unlimited 


Dance  Orchestra 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell   Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 

Edward  R.  Murrow 


Crime  Photographer 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Godfrey  Digest 


Perry  Como 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Dance  Orchestra 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


MBS 


Morning  Programs 


8:30  'Egbert  &  Ummly 
8:45 


9:00  Egbert  &  Ummly 

9:15  (con.) 

9:30  Serenade  To 

9:45  Romance 


10:00  Mary  Margaret 


10:15 
10:30 
10:45 


McBride 
Roadshow, 
with  Bill 


11:00 

11:15 
11:30 
11:45 


Cullen 


Roadshow  (con.) 


Local  Program 


News 


Amazing  Mr.  Whiz 


American  Travel 
Guide 

Johnny  Desmond 

Show 
11:55  Kiddie  News 


ABC 


Doug  Browning 
Show 


CBS 


No  School 
Today 


No  School 

Today  (con.) 
Space  Patrol 


11:05  Half-Pint 
Panel 

All  League  Club- 
house 


News 


News  Of  America 


Garden  Gate 


News 

10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

10:55  News 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show 


Aftc 

12:00 
12:15 

12:30 
12:45 

rnoon  Progr 

National  Farm  And 
Home  Hour 

Western  Show 

a  ins 

1  Asked  You 

Country  Jamboree 

News 

12:05  101  Ranch 

Boys 
American  Farmer 

Noon  News 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

Dude  Ranch 
Jamboree 
Roadshow  (con.) 

Fifth  Army  Band 

Symphonies  For 
Youth 

News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

Vincent  Lopez 

1:55  News 

City  Hospital 
1 :25  Galen  Drake 
News 

1 :35  Stan  Daugherty 
Presents 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Symphonies  (con.) 
2:25  News 
Richard  Hayes 

Metropolitan  Opera 

Don  Reid  Orch. 

Teddy  Wilson  Orch. 
Richard  Hayes 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Metropolitan  Opera 
(con.) 

String  Serenade 
Skinnay  Ennis  Orch. 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Salute  The  Nation 

Metropolitan  Opera 
(con.) 

Ralph  Flanagan 

Orch. 
Ralph  Marterie  Orch. 

5:00 

5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Teenagers  Unlimited 
5:55  News 

News 

5:05  Festival 

Adventures  In 

Science 
Farm  News 
News 
5:35  Saturday  At 

The  Chase 

Evening    Programs 


6:00 

6:15 
6:30 

6:45 

News 

H.  V.  Kaltenborn 
Thy  Kingdom  Come 

John  T.  Flynn 

World  Traveler 
Report  From 

Washington 
Basil  Heatter 

6:05  Pan-American 

Union 
Sports,  Bob  Finnegan 
Bob  Edge,  Sports 

Afield 

News 

Sports  Roundup 
Capitol  Cloakroom 

7:00 

7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

NBC  Travel  Bureau 
7:05  Heart  Of  The 

College  Quiz  Bowl 

True  Or  False 
Parade  Of  Sports 

News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Labor-Manage- 
ment Series 

News 

7:05  Make  Way  For 

Youth 
Gangbusters 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

Conversation 
Symphony 

Sports  (con.) 

News 

8:05  Dance  Party 

Gunsmoke 
Juke  Box  Jury 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Symphony  (con.) 
Grand  Ole  Opry 

Sports  (con.) 
Lombardo  Land 

News 

9:05  Dance  Party 
(con.) 

Two  For  The  Money 

Country  Style 
9:55  News 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

Tex  Williams  Show 
Town  Hall  Party 

Chicago  Theater  Of 
The  Air 

News 
10:05  Ozark 

Jubilee 
Ambassador  Hotel 

Country  Style  (con.) 
Dorsey  Orch. 

Sunday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Light  And  Life  Hour 

Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 

9:00 
9:15 

9:30 

9:45 

World  News  Roundup 
Carnival  Of  Books 

Faith  In  Action 

Art  Of  Living 

Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 

News 

9:05  Milton  Cross 

Album 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 

World  News  Roundup 
The  Music  Room 

Organ  Music, 

E.  Power  Biggs 
9:55  News 

10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 

National  Radio 
Pulpit 

Headlines  In 
Perspective 

Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 

News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 

Church  Of  The  Air 

Church  Of  The  Air 
(con.) 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 

11:45 

News 

1 1 :05  Stars  From 

Paris 
Pauline  Frederick 

At  UN 
UN  Assignment 

Frank  And  Ernest 

Northwestern 
Reviewing  Stand 

Sunday  Melodies 
11:05  Marines  On 

Review 
News 
11:35  Christian  In 

Action 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 

Invitation  To 
Learning 

Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 

Music  For 

Marine  Band 

Pan-American 

News,  LeSueur 

Relaxation 

Union 

12:05  The  Leading 

12:15 

Question 

12:30 

The  Eternal  Light 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 

The  World  Tomorrow 

Howard  K.  Smith, 
World  Affairs 

12:45 

Merry  Mailman 

News  Report 

1:00 

Anthology 

Global  Frontiers 

Herald  Of  Truth 

Man's  Right  To 

1:15 

Christian  Science 

Knowledge 

1:30 

Univ.  Of  Chicago 

Lutheran  Hour 

News 

News 

1:45 

Round  Table 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

1:35  Syncopation 
Piece 

2:00 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Basil  Heatter 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 

Symphonette 

2:15 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

2:30 

Youth  Wants  To 

Wings  Of  Healing 

New  York  Philhar- 

2:45 

Know 

monic-Symphony 

3:00 

Weekend 

Wonderful  City 

News 

New  York  Philhar- 

3:15 

3:05  Air  Force  Show 

monic-Symphony 

3:30 

Have  A  Heart 

Hour  Of  Decision 

(con.) 

3:45 

4:00 

Weekend  (con.) 

Pop  The  Question 

Old-Fashioned 

News,  LeSueur 

4:15 

Revival  Hour 

4:05  On  A  Sunday 

4:30 

Nick  Carter 

Afternoon 

4:45 

4:55  Lome  Greene 

5:00 

Inheritance 

Adventures  Of  Rin 

News 

News 

5:15 

Tin  Tin 

5:05  Evening  Comes 

5:05  On  A  Sunday 

5:30 

Dennis  Day  Show 

True  Detective 

Greatest  Story 

Afternoon  (con.) 

5:45 

Mysteries 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Ever  Told 

5:55  News,  Trout 

Evening   Programs 


6:00 

American  Forum 

Public  Prosecutor- 
Jay  Jostyn 

Monday  Morning 
Headlines 

Gene  Autry 

6:15 

On  The  Line,  Bob 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

6:30 

Travels  In  Tempo 

Considine 

Hall  Of  Fame 

6:45 

Wismer,  Sports 

7:00 

A  Radio  Tribute 

Rod  And  Gun  Club 

News 

7:05  Showtime 
Revue 

Jack  Benny 

7:15 

George  Sokolsky 

7:30 

Enchanted  Hour 

News 

7:35  Valentino 

Amos  'n'  Andy 

7:45 

7:55  NBC  Travel 
Bureau 

Travel  Talk 

8:00 

Dr.  Six  Gun 

Hawaii  Calls 

American  Town 

Our  Miss  Brooks 

8:15 

Meeting 

8:30 

Adventures  Of  The 

Oklahoma  City 

My  Little  Margie 

8:45 

Abbots 

Symphony 

9:00 

Sherlock  Holmes 

Oklahoma  City 

Walter  Winchell 

Edgar  Bergen  Show 

9:15 

Symphony  (con.) 

News,  Quincy  Howe 

9:30 

Easy  Money 

Manion  Forum 

Sammy  Kaye 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 

9:55  News 

10:00 

Fibber  McGee  And 
Molly 

Billy  Graham 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

News,  Schorr 
10:05  Mahalia  Jack- 
son, Gospel  Singer 

10:15 

Great    Gildersleeve 

Elmer  Davis 

John  Derr,  Sports 
Face  The  Nation 

10:30 

Meet  The  Press 

Little  Symphonies 

Revival  Time 

See   Next   Page- 


73 


TV  program  highlights 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  MARCH  8— APRIL  7 


74 


Monday  through  Friday 


DAYTIME 

7:00  0  Morning  Show— Paar,  Clooney  &  Co. 

©  &  00  Today — Getaway  with  Garroway 

8:55  O  Herb  Sheldon— Keeps  kids  occupied 

9:00  0  Skinner  Show— Real  George  variety 

©  Don  McNeill's  Breakfast  Club 

10:00  0  Garry  Moore— Always  cheerful  &  fun 

©  &  00  Ding  Dong  School— TV  Nursery 

10:30  0  Arthur  Godfrey  Time— Time  to  relax 

©  &  00  Way  Of  The  World-Drama 
11:00  ©  Home— Arlene  Francis  with  giant  show 
11:15  0  Morning  Chapel— Prayer 
11:30  0  &  X|  Strike  It  Rich— Quiz  for   needy 
12:00  0  Valiant  Lady— Flora   Campbell   stars 
©  &  [§]  Tennessee    Ernie    Show— Laffs 
12:15  0  &  GO  Love    Of   Life— Daytime    Drama 
12:30  0  &  00  Search    For    Tomorrow— Story 
©  Feather  Your  Nest — Bud  Collyer, quiz 
0  Morey  Amsterdam— A  punny  man 
12:45  0  (&  [J]  at  2:30)  The  Guiding  Light 
1:00  0  Portia  Faces  Life— Stars  Fran  Carton 
1:15  0  Road  Of  Life— With  Don  MacLaughlin 
1:30  0  &   00  Welcome   Travelers— Bartlett 
0  Claire    Mann— For    health    &    beauty 
2:00  0    &  00  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show— Fun! 
0  Maggi  MeNellis— PM  hen  party 
Mon.,    Tues.,    Wed.;    at    2:15    Thurs.    &    Fri. 
All  About  Baby— Child  care,  Thurs.  &  Fri. 
2:30  0  Linkletter's  House   Party— Flippant 
©  Jinx  Falkenburg — Intimate  interviews 
(I)  Liberace— Valentino  of  the  piano 
3:00  0  The  Big  Payoff— Mink-lined  quiz 

©  The  Greatest  Gift— Serial— Ann  Burr 
0  Paul  Dixon  Show— Musicmimics 
O  Ted  Steele  Show— Tempo  8.  talk 
3:15  ©  The  Golden  Windows— Daily  story 
3:30  0  Bob  Crosby  Show— Gay  &  lively 
©  &  00  One  Man's  Family— Serial 
0  Memory  Lane— Like  it  was  yesterday 
3:45  ©  &  00  Concerning  Miss  Marlowe 
4:00  0  &  00  Tne  Brighter  Day— Serial 

©Hawkins  Falls— Rural  story 
4:15  0  &  00  Secret  Storm— Daily  story 
©  First  Love— Starring  Pat  Barry 
4:30  0  &  00  On  Your  Account— Quiz  for  $$$ 
©  World    Of   Mr.   Sweeney— Chuckles 

EARLY   EVENING 
6:30  Q)  Liberace — The  gorgeous  piano  virtuoso 
7:00  O  Kukla,  Fran  &  Ollie— Puppetry  fun 
7:15  O  John  Daly  Comments— News  reports 
7:30  ©  Songs— Tony     Martin,     Mon.;      Dinah 
Shore,  Tues.,  Thurs.;  Eddie  Fisher,  Wed.,  Fri. 
0  Million    Dollar   Movies— Mar.    8-14, 
"No  Minor  Vices,"  Dana  Andrews,  Lilli  Palm- 
er;  Mar.    15-21,   "The    Scar,"   Joan    Bennett, 
Paul  Henreid;  Mar.  22-28,  "Northwest  Stam- 
pede,"   Joan    Leslie,    Jack    Oakie;    Mar.    29- 
Apr.    4,    "The    Other    Love,"    Barbara    Stan- 
wyck, David  Niven. 
7:45   0  Songs— Perry    Como,    Mon.,    Wed.    & 
Fri.;  Jo  Stafford,  Tues.;  Jane  Froman,  Thurs. 
©    &  00  News  Caravan— Suave  Swayze 
9:00  0  Fortune  Theater — Foreign  films  with 
English  dialogue.  Also  at  11:30. 

LATE    NIGHT 
10:00  0  Million    Dollar    Movies— Repeat    of 

show  at  7:30.  See  listings  above. 
11:00  0  News  &  Sports 

0  TV  Playhouse— Half-hour  film  stories 
11:15   ©  Tonight— Steve   Allen's   big    show 
11:30  0   News  Reports— Goddard 
12:45  0  The  Late,  Late  Show— Feature  films 


7:00 
7:30 


Monday  P.M. 


©  Sherlock  Holmes— Ronald  Howard 

§Life  With  Elizabeth-  Betty  White 
Name's  The  Same— Dennis  James 


8:00  0  Burns  &  Allen— Coupled  comedy 

0  &  00  Caesar's  Hour— Sid  stars;  Pro- 
ducers' Showcase— April  4  only. 

0  TV  Reader's  Digest— Filmed  dramas 
8:30  0  Talent  Scouts— Godfrey's  showcase 

0  &  00  Voice  of  Firestone— Concerts 
9:00  0  &  00   I  Love  Lucy— Desi  has  a   Ball 

©  The  Medic — Documentaries  of  docs 
9:30  0  &  00  December  Bride— Comedy 
©  Robert  Montgomery  Presents 
10:00  0  &  00  Studio  One— Hour  dramas 
0  Boxing— From  Eastern  Parkway 
10:30  ©  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  as  Steve 


Tuesday 


7:30  0  (&  00  at  10:30)  Waterfront— Drama 

0  Cavalcade  Of  America — Dramas 
8:00  0  Life  With  Father— Comedy  Series 

©  &  .00  Milton  Berle-Mar.  8  &  22; 
Martha  Raye — Mar.  15;  Barnum  &  Bail- 
ey Circus,  Mar.  29. 

0  Life  Is  Worth  Living— Bishop  Sheen 
8:30  0  Halls  Of  Ivy— The  Ronald  Colmans 

©  Studio  57 — Varieties  of  drama,  filmed 
0  20  Questions— Jay  Jackson,  emcee 
9:00  0  &  00  Meet  Milly— Gay,  giddy  gal 
©  Fireside  Theater — Filmed  dramas 
0  Make  Room  For  Daddy— Comedy 
9:30  ©  &  00  Red   Skelton— Clowning 
©  Circle  Theater — Dramas 
0  One  Minute,  Please— Talkathons 
O  U.  S.  Steel  Theater— Elgin  Theater 
—Superb,  full-hour  dramas  alternate  weekly 
10:00  0  Danger— Searing,  suspense  stories 

©  &  00  Truth  Or  Consequences 
10:30  0  See  It  Now— Ed  Murrow's  essay 
©  It's  A  Great  Life— Dunne's  fun 
0  Ernie  Kovacs  Show— Mad! 
0  Stop  The  Music— Bert  Parks'  quiz 


Wednesday 


7:00  ©  Norby— Comedy    with    David    Wayne 
7:30  0  Disneyland— Fabulous  fantasy 
8:00  0  &  00  Godfrey  Show— Hour  variety 

©  I  Married  Joan— Riot  with  Joan  Davis 
©  Boss  Lady— Lynn  Bari  series 
8:30  ©  (&  00  at  9:30)  My  Little  Margie 
0  llona  Massey  Show— Glamour! 
0  Stu  Erwin  Show— Hilarious  mix-ups 
9:00  0  &  00  The  Millionaire— $tories 

©  Kraft  Theater— Fine,  hour  dramas 
0  Masquerade  Party— Peter  Donald 
0  Badge  714— Jack  Webb  in  re-runs 
9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret— Garry  Moore 
10:00  0  &  00  Blue  Ribbon  Boxing 

©  This  Is  Your  Life— Ralph  Edwards 
10:30  ©  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 
0  Eddie  Cantor  Show— Comedy  &  music 


Thursday 


7:30  0  Finders  Keepers— Quiz,  Fred  Robbins 
0  Lone  Ranger— Horse  operas 

8:00  0  Meet  Mr.  McNulty-Ray  Milland 
©  &  00  You  Bet  Your  Life— Groucho 
0   International  Playhouse-  -Horn  films 

8:30  0  Climax!— Full  hour  plays  of  suspense; 
except  March   17,  Shower  Of  Stars 
©  &  00  Justice— Police  stories 
0  Treasury  Men  In  Action— Adventure 

9:00  ©&G0   Dragnet— Jack   Webb   stars 

©  What's  The  Story?— Pert  panel  quiz 
0  Star  Tonight— Drama  series 

9:30  0  Four  Star  Playhouse— Dramas 

©  &  00  Ford  Theater— Filmed  stories 
0  Pond's  Theater— Hour-long  dramas 
10:00  0  Public  Defender— Reed   Hadley 

©  &  00  L"x  Video  Theater— Full  hour 
0  Conrad  Nagel  Theater— Dramas 


10:30  0  Name  That  Tune— Quiz,  Bill  Cullen 
0  Ernie  Kovacs  Show— Zany 
0  Racket  Squad— Reed  Hadley  stars 


Friday 


7:30  ©  Life  With  Elizabeth-Betty  White 
O  Adventures  Of  Rin  Tin  Tin 

8:00  0  &  00  Mama— Warm-hearted  comedy 
©  Red    Buttons    —    Belly-laughs.    Every 
fourth  week,  Mar.  11,  Jack  Carson  Show 
0  Ozzie  &  Harriet— Family  comedy 

8:30  0  Topper — Hocus-pocus  comedy 

©  &  00  Life  Of  Riley— Bill  Bendix 
O  Ray  Bolger  Show— Whimsical 

9:00  0  Playhouse  Of  Stars— Filmed  dramas 
©  &  00  B'9  Story— Tense  news  stories 
©  The    Stranger— Suspense-type    stories 
0  Dollar  A  Second— Quiz,  Jan  Murray 

9:30  0  Our  Miss  Brooks— Eve  Arden  series 
©  &  00  Dear  Phoebe— Peter  Lawford 
O  The   Vise— Killer-dillers  from   England 
10:00  0  The  Line-Up— Tense  police  stories 

©  &  00  Cavalcade  Of  Sports— Boxing 
0  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
10:30  0  Person  To  Person— Murrow's  visits 
©  Down  You  Go— Panel  game 
0  Mr.  District  Attorney— David  Brian 


Saturday 


§ 


6:30  0  Man  Behind  The  Badge— Whodunits 
7:00  ©  Star  And  Story— Henry  Fonda,  host 

0  Gloria  Swanson  Show 
7:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Stunts  for  prizes 
Show  Wagon— Heidt's  talent  hunt 
Dangerous  Assignment— Suspense 
8:00  0  Jackie  Gleason— Gags  &  gals  galore 
©  &  00  Mickey  Rooney— Comedy  series 
8:30  ©  So  This  Is  Hollywood— Mitzi  Green 
9:00  0   Two  For  The  Money— Quiz,  Shriner 
©  Imogene    Coca— Skits   skittish;    every 
fourth  week,  Mar.  12,  Max  Liebman  Pre- 
sents 
9:30  0  My  Favorite  Husband— Hilarious 
©  &  00  Durante— O'Connor  Show 
Jimmy  and  Donald  take  turns  weekly. 
10:00  ©  &  00  George  Gobel— Gobs  of  laughs 

0  Stork   Club— Billingsley's   bistro 
10:30  0  Willy— June  Havoc  in  title  role 

©  &  00  Your  Hit  Parade— High-rated 
0  Foreign  Intrigue — Spy  stories 


Sunday 


4:30  0  The  Search— Brilliant  documentaries 

©  Zoo  Parade— Four-legged  variety 
5:00  0  Omnibus— Exciting,  entertaining 

©  Hall  Of  Fame— Stirring  dramas 
6:00  ©  Meet  The  Press—  Newsmaking  panel 

0  Corliss  Archer— Ann  Baker  stars 
6:30  0  &  00  You  Are  There— Re-living  history 
7:00  ©  &  QO  People  Are  Funny— Linkletter 

O  You  Asked  For  It— Art  Baker,  emcee 
7:30  0  &   00   Jock    Benny— Weekly  comedy 
show  alternating  with  Ann  Sothern's  tickler. 
Private  Secretary 

©  Mr.  Peepers— Wally  Cox  comedy;  ex- 
cept Mar.  27,  Max  Liebman  Presents 
8:00  0  &  00  Toast  Of  The  Town— Sullivan 

©  Colgate  Comedy  Hour— Fun  filled 
9:00  0  G-E  Theater— Ronald  Reagan,  host 

©  &  00  TV  Playhouse— Full  hour  plays 
9:30  0  Stage  7— Hollywood  stars  emote 

©  Life  Begins  At  80— Jack  Barry,  emcee 

0  Pantomime  Quiz— Lotsa  laffs 
10:00  0  Father  Knows  Best— Robert  Young 

©  &  00  Loretta  Young  Show— Stories 

O  Break  The  Bank— $$$  Quiz,  Parks 
10:30  0  &  00  What's  My  Line?— Job  game 

©  Bob  Cummings— Comedy  series 


Helen  Trent 

(Continued  from  page  40) 
personal  battle  against  this  seeming  trag- 
edy which  threatened  to  despoil  her  life 
and  to  restrict  all  her  activities.  Now  that 
she  must  he  completely  idle  and  motion- 
less, she  began  to  fight  off  all  temptation 
toward  self-pity  by  having  her  radio 
brought  to  her  bedside,  where  she  could 
reach  out  a  hand  and  turn  the  dials  and 
dispel  her   own   thoughts. 

She  happened  to  turn  to  a  program 
called  Kitty  Foyle,  and  she  heard  Julie 
Stevens'  voice.  Julie  was  then  playing  the 
lead  in  that  radio  drama.  Already  sensi- 
tive to  what  she  now  calls  "voice  person- 
alities," Melody  made  an  amazingly  ac- 
curate mental  picture  of  Julie: 

"I  pictured  her  as  a  girl  of  medium 
height,  with  very  friendly  eyes  and  a 
sweet  mouth  that  turned  up  at  the  cor- 
ners. I  knew  her  face  lighted  up  when  she 
spoke.  I  could  'see'  her  hair,  a  little  on 
the  perky  side,  but  soft  and  natural  in 
contour,  and  blondish  with  auburn  lights. 
I  knew  she  had  hands  that  reached  out  in 
understanding   and  friendship." 

JVlore  and  more,  these  "voice  personali- 
ties" became  important  to  Melody,  as — for 
four  months  longer — she  lay  almost  mo- 
tionless. These  people  became  her 
"friends,"  almost  as  near  and  dear  as  any 
who  came  to  visit  or  who  called  on  the 
telephone  which  stood  close  to  her  other 
hand.  When  she  left  the  hospital  to  go 
home  and  face  the  long  ordeal  of  accus- 
toming mind  and  body  to  the  experience 
of  being  sightless — because  that  at  last 
was  the  verdict  of  the  doctors — these 
"friends"  became  even  more  a  part  of  her 
life.  And  chief  among  them  was  Julie 
Stevens,    Melody's    first   radio   friend. 

Kitty  Foyle  went  off  the  air  a  couple  of 
years  later.  At  that  time,  Melody  wanted 
to  write  Julie,  to  tell  her  how  much  she 
was  missed,  and  ask  on  what  program  she 
might  still  be  heard.  She  didn't,  because 
she  felt  such  a  letter  might  be  an  intrusion 
upon  Julie's  privacy.  Then,  one  day  in 
1944,  to  her  great  joy,  Melody  happened 
to  tune  in  for  the  first  time  to  The  Ro- 
mance Of  Helen  Trent,  and  there  once 
more  she  found  Julie,  recognizing  her 
voice  immediately.  After  that,  Melody 
became    a   regular   listener. 

Although,  at  first,  her  greatest  interest 
in  the  program  was  in  hearing  Julie  again, 
gradually  she  came  to  know  and  love  the 
entire  cast  and  the  story.  Voices,  she  had 
found,  are  revealing — often  more  so  than 
faces — and  the  medley  of  voices  on  Helen 
Trent  became  loved  and  familiar  to  her  as 
the  years  went  on. 

In  her  lovely  home  on  an  island  in 
Florida's  Biscayne  Bay,  Melody  began  to 
talk  to  friends  about  these  people  she  felt 
so  close  to,  who  broadcast  from  the  CBS 
studios  in  New  York,  and  she  would  often 
say  that  she  longed  to  let  them  know 
what  they  had  meant  to  her  over  the 
years.  Especially  she  wanted  Julie  to 
know.  Julie,  who  had  helped  her  through 
those  hardest  months  of  all,  in  the  hospi- 
tal. She  wanted  to  do  something,  how- 
ever small,  to  express  her  appreciation. 
"Perhaps,"  she  would  say,  "I  could  go  up 
to  New  York  and  give  a  little  party  for 
them,  an  intimate  little  party  where  we 
could  get  together  and  talk  and  laugh 
and  have  music  and  talk  some  more." 

"Why  don't  you?"  her  friends  began  to 
ask.  "Why  not  at  least  tell  them  how 
much  joy  they  have  given  you,  and  how 
much  comfort?" 

Melody  thought  about  it  for  a  long  time, 
praying  over  it,  believing  it  could  come  to 
pass  someday.  And  there  the  matter  stood. 

Now  it  is  time  for  Julie  to  pick  up  the 


you 

picked  them! 

now  read 
about  them! 


your  choice  of  television  and  radio's 

AWARDS  WINNERS 
for  1954-55 

announced  in  the  big,  outstanding 
May  AWARDS  ISSUE  of 

J.  \  MIRROR 

on  sale  at  newsstands  April  7th 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR  is  proud  to  announce 
its  Eighth  Annual  Awards.  The  solid-gold- 
medal  awards  are  presented  to  the  favorite 
stars  and  shows  of  1954-55  as  selected  in  TV 
RADIO  MIRROR's  annual  nationwide  poll 
of  readers. 


YOU   PICKED   THEM! 

NOW   READ   ABOUT   THEM! 


in 


MAY 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  at  newsstands  April  7th 


75 


threads  of  this  story  for  a  few  minutes: 
"Our  office  had  a  phone  call  from  Flori- 
da, from  a  Mrs.  Miller,  late  last  fall.  She 
said  she  wanted  to  write  a  letter  to  me. 
Of  course,  none  of  us  knew  her  then,  but 
the  folks  at  the  office  said  they  would  be 
glad  to  see  that  I  got  her  letter  when  it 
came.  It  was  forwarded  to  my  home,  and 
in  it  she  told  me  she  had  been  wanting  to 
visit  New  York  and  that  it  seemed  the 
right  time  to  come,  as  her  visit  would  give 
her  a  chance  to  bring  along  a  brilliant 
young  coloratura  to  whom  a  trip  to  New 
York  at  that  time  would  open  many  doors 
professionally.  And  she  hoped  that  we 
would  allow  her  to  have  a  party  for  us 
during  the  visit,  if  we  could  spare  the 
time,  so  she  might  tell  us  something  of 
what  we,  and  The  Romance  Of  Helen 
Trent,  had  meant  to  her  for  many  years. 
"Her  letter  was  so  obviously  sincere 
and  unusual  that  I  showed  it  to  everyone 
on  the  program.  When  she  telephoned,  I 
was  genuinely  glad  to  hear  from  her.  At 
once  I  fell  in  love  with  her  voice,  so 
youthful,  so  gay,  and  so  loving.  When  she 
came  to  the  studio  to  have  lunch  with  me, 
I  was  struck  by  her  loveliness.  The  eyes 
that  appeared  to  look  straight  into  mine, 
under  the  wavy  blonde  hair.  A  skin  like 
milk  and  roses,  a  graceful  figure,  dainty 
hands  and  feet,  a  completely  charming 
manner.  But,  beyond  all  these  things,  I 
saw  a  woman  who  had  never  been  de- 
feated by  what  others  might  call  a  handi- 
cap, and  who  had  no  bitterness  in  her 
soul.  By  this  time,  I  was  as  thrilled  at 
meeting  her  as  she  said  she  was  at  meet- 
ing me.  I  was  the  one  who  thought  it  a 
privilege,  and  I  could  hardly  wait  until 
I  could  introduce  the  rest  of  the  cast." 

lhen,  one  afternoon,  shortly  after,  the 
long  dreamed  about  party  became  an  ac- 
tuality. In  Melody's  suite  at  the  Del- 
monico  Hotel  on  Park  Avenue,  a  Ham- 
mond organ  had  been  installed.  Peter,  the 
room  service  captain,  had  a  buffet  lunch- 
eon set  up  on  a  long  table  at  one  side  of 
the  big  living  room,  and  the  guests  began 
to  arrive,  some  of  them  directly  from  that 
day's  broadcast,  others — who  were  not  on 
the  program  that  particular  day — leaving 
other  duties  in  order  to  be  present.  Only 
Bob  Hague,  who  is  Brett  Chapman  on  the 
show,  and  Sarah  Burton,  who  is  columnist 
Daisy  Parker,  had  to  send  regrets.  They 
both  had  rehearsals  which  involved  other 
people,  and  therefore  could  not  possibly 
be  postponed,  but  Melody  had  already  met 
them  and  had  had  the  fun  of  "recognizing" 
them  from  their  voices. 

Julie  was  first  to  arrive  at  the  party. 
She  threw  her  arms  around  Melody,  a 
gesture  which  both  women  and  men  al- 
most unconsciously  make  toward  Melody, 
knowing  she  cannot  see  the  friendship  ex- 
pressed in  their  eyes.  David  Gothard  fol- 
lowed Julie  in.  David,  who  is  the  hand- 
some Gil  Whitney,  in  love  with  Helen 
Trent  for  so  long. 

"Gil,  you  wonderful  person,"  Melody 
greeted  him  the  moment  she  heard  his 
voice,  grabbing  his  hands  in  hers.  "I 
have  pictured  you  as  tall,  dark  and  hand- 
some,  and   oh-so-romantic." 

"That's  exactly  right,"  Julie  broke  in. 
"Except  that  Gil  is  tall,  blond  and  hand- 
some. 

"Blond  or  dark,  Gil,  I  know  you  as  a 
man  of  fine  sensitivity,"  Melody  laughed. 
"The  kind  of  man  all  girls  dream  of  meet- 
ing one  day.  Big  and  strong,  but  with  a 
tenderness  women  love."  She  turned  to 
them  both.  "If  I  could  only  tell  you  how 
T  I  have  shared  in  your  problems  and  re- 
y  joiced  when  some  of  them  were  solved. 
How  I  have  felt  that  you  were  my  friends, 
all  of  you,  who  let  me  share  your  experi- 
ences and  who  took  me  into  your  con- 
fidence.     I  can  never  thank  you  enough." 


Now  Richie,  Brett  Chapman's  son,  came 
in — in  the  person  of  young  Hal  Studer. 
"Richie,  you  sweet  kid,"  Melody  cried  out. 
"I  would  know  that  voice  anywhere. 
Sometimes  I  hear  you  do  a  part  on  some 
other  radio  program  and  I  always  know 
it's  my  Richie  and  am  so  pleased  and  proud 
of  your  work. 

"And  Buggsy!  Buggsy  O'Toole.  You're 
exactly  as  I  pictured  Gil's  helper  and 
friend.  You,  with  the  rough  exterior  and, 
under  it,  the  sweetness  of  a  child  and  the 
devotion  of  a  man  who  would  lay  down 
his  life  for  his  friend."  And  she  put  an 
arm  fondly  around  Ed  Latimer,  who  is 
Buggsy  in  the  dramatic  serial. 

"Agatha!  Why,  Bess  McCannon,  you're 
Agatha,  the  woman  I  always  wanted  to 
meet  because  I  have  thought  how  lucky 
Helen  Trent  was  to  have  a  homemaker 
and  a  confidante  like  you." 

When  Fielden  Farrington — the  good- 
looking  announcer  who  for  ten  years  has 
been  part  of  the  Helen  Trent  staff — came 
up  to  talk  to  her,  Melody  knew  him  at 
once  as  one  of  her  favorite  "voice  person- 
alities." She  recognized  Ginger  LeRoy's 
voice  just  as  soon  as  Florence  Robinson — 
the  actress  who  is  Ginger — opened  her 
mouth  to  say  one  word.  "You  cute  thing," 
she  said  to  Ginger.     "I  just  love  you." 

"Who  am  I?"  Helene  Dumas  asked. 
"Why,  you're  Lydia,  of  course,"  Melody 
answered.  "You  didn't  think  you  could 
fool  me,  did  you?  And  this  is  Lydia's 
husband,  Jeff  Brady,  who  is  Helen's  boss 
at  the  movie  studio!"  She  put  her  hands 
up  to  the  face  of  John  Stanley,  who  is 
Jeff.     "My,  you're  a  tall  fellow,"  she  said. 

"Yes,  and  most  people  picture  me  as 
being  a  little  portly,  but  you  can  see  I  am 
not." 

"I  have  to  confess  I  thought  so,  too." 
She  laughed.  "You  do  sound  a  little  that 
way,  you  know."  And  they  laughed  over 
the  trick  his  voice  had  been  able  to  play 
on  her,  as  it  does  on  so  many  others. 

Then  Cynthia  (Andree  Wallace)  came 
in,  amusingly  enough,  with  Senor  Alicante 
(Harald  Bromley)'.  They  had  met  in  the 
elevator  on  the  way  up  to  Melody's  apart- 
ment— although,  at  this  point  in  the  script, 
these  two  would  hardly  have  been  arriv- 
ing at  a  party  together!  And  Gwen  Sew- 
ell,  the  girl  who  is  in  love  with  Gil,  and 
who  in  real  life  is  Cathleen  Cordell.  And 
Loretta  Cole  (who,  of  course,  is  Teri 
Keane),  for  so  long  a  secret  rival  of 
Helen's  for  Brett's  love  and  now  first  in 
his  heart.  Melody  recognized  each  one 
and  made  them  welcome  as  the  dear  and 
close   friends   they  had   become   to  her. 

When  Harry  Worth,  engineer  on  the 
show,  arrived,  she  thanked  him  for  his 
part  in  making  her  life  happier  by  bring- 
ing these  people  and  their  story  into  her 
home  year  after  year.  To  Ruth  Borden, 
the  writer  of  The  Romance  Of  Helen 
Trent,  she  could  only  say,  with  her  heart 
m  her  voice:  "I  feel  you  must  have  lived 
a  rich  and  full  life,  and  evolved  a  fine 
personal  philosophy,  to  be  able  to  create 
such  people  and  such  a  deeply  human 
story.  I  cannot  thank  you  enough  for  the 
pleasure   you   have   given   me." 

The  director  of  the  program,  Ernie  Ric- 


THE  NATL.  SOCIETY  FOR  CRIPPLED 
CHILDREN  AND  ADULTS.  INC.  11  S. 
LASALLE  STREET,  CHICAGO  3,  ILL. 


ca,  came  in  a  little  late,  when  the  party 
was  in  full  swing.  He  stood  in  the  door- 
way a  moment,  listening  to  Melody  play- 
ing the  organ,  her  face  alight  with  hap- 
piness, her  hands  dancing  over  the  keys, 
her  feet  fairly  prancing  the  pedals.  Beth 
Hanger,  the  talented  and  lovely  young 
singer  who  had  come  to  New  York  with 
her,  was  beginning  to  sing  to  Melody's  ac- 
companiment. The  song  was  "Young  at 
Heart,"  and  the  words  rang  out  in  Beth's 
glorious,  pure  coloratura: 

Fairy  tales  can  come  true — it  can  hap- 
pen to  you.  .  .  . 

Ernie  looked  unbelievingly  at  the  scene 
in  front  of  him,  and  he  shook  his  head. 
"If  we  did  a  script  like  this  on  radio,"  he 
said,  "listeners  would  think  it  could  not 
be  true-to-life.  They  would  think  we  had 
made  it  up.  All  this  talent.  This  radiance 
of  personality  that  gives  the  lie  to  any  so- 
called  handicap.  This  story  of  devotion  to 
those  who  have  helped  over  rough  places, 
even  though  they  didn't  realize  what  their 
help  meant  at  the  time.  Everyone  would 
think  this  too  good  to  be  true  if  we  put 
it  in  a  show."  ■ 

Fairy  tales  can  come  true.  .  .  . 

JVLelody  began  to  play  a  composition  of 
her  own,  one  she  calls  "The  Trouble 
Tree,"  speaking  the  words  to  the  music. 
She  had  been  improvising  one  day  and 
the  tune  had  seemed  to  fall  right  out  of 
her  fingers,  and  soon  words  came  to  fit  it. 
It's  a  little  song  about  tying  your  troubles 
to  a  big  tree  near  the  ocean  and  letting 
the  wind  blow  them  out  to  sea,  far  away 
forever.  She  has  played  it  hundreds  and 
hundreds  of  times,  to  audiences  in  Florida, 
and  strangers  have  come  up  to  her  after- 
wards and  said  what  a  lift  the  words  and 
the  lilting  music  gave  them.  "It  makes 
people  laugh  and  feel  happier,"  she  says 
of  it.  "Old  folks,  and  even  the  children. 
That's  all  I  want  my  music  to  do.  I 
never  play  sad  songs  or  somber  melodies." 

Her  own  composition,  "In  the  Spring," 
followed,  another  gay  tune  which  had 
come  to  her  suddenly  one  day.  Then  she 
began  to  tell  how  her  first  real  composition 
was  born,  when  she  was  fifteen  years  old, 
the  sheltered  only  child  of  a  prominent 
family  living  in  Cleveland,  Ohio.  How 
something  had  happened  to  her,  one  day, 
which  gave  her  what  seemed  a  big  heart- 
ache for  a  little  girl,  and  she  felt  she  was 
up  against  circumstances  too  big  for  her 
to  handle. 

"I  flung  myself  across  my  bed,  and  sud- 
denly a  tune  began  to  dance  in  my  head, 
and  then  the  words  came,  and  suddenly 
they  seemed  to  take  all  the  pressure  and 
the  pain  away.  Although  the  song  is 
called  'Fate' — and  we  don't  always  think 
of  that  as  happy — it's  a  happy  song.  Per- 
haps it  was  the  beginning  of  my  deep  be- 
lief that  whatever  life  brings  us  is  for 
our  ultimate  good,  if  only  we  will  try 
to  understand. 

"There  seem  to  be  cycles  of  trouble  in 
our  lives,  but  I  believe  that  these  are 
only  experiences  to  make  us  learn  some 
needed  lesson.  In  reality,  there  is  never 
any   darkness   anywhere." 

Melody  cannot  remember  a  time  when 
music  was  not  a  part  of  her  life,  although 
she  did  not  come  from  a  musical  back- 
ground. She  remembers  that,  at  three, 
she  was  already  singing  little  times  which 
just  came  into  her  head,  and  that  she  was 
always  fitting  her  small  vocabulary  of 
words  to  these  tunes.  By  the  time  she 
was  a  young  adult,  she  wanted  to  do 
many  things  with  her  music,  which  was 
becoming  so  important  to  her  life,  but  her 
parents  had  always  been  fearful  of  let- 
ting their  young  daughter  go  out  into  the 
world  on  her  own. 

This  was  one  of  the  reasons  why  she 
has  such  a  warm  interest  in  Beth  Hanger. 


Beth  was  soloist  at  the  White  Temple,  a 
Methodist  church  in  Miami,  when  they 
met  through  friends  who  brought  her  to 
Melody's  home  in  Miami  Beach. 

"I  was  entranced  with  Beth  the  mo- 
ment I  met  her  and  heard  her  sing," 
Melody  says.  "Her  vocal  coach  played 
the  accompaniments  that  night  at  my 
house,  but  I  knew  Beth  and  I  would  work 
well  together.  Beth  had  been  to  New 
York  last  summer,  but  it  was  only  a  four- 
day  stay  and  she  felt  she  had  not  ac- 
complished the  things  professionally 
which  she  wanted  to  do.  She  had  prayed 
she  could  have  another  chance. 

"I,  too,  had  been  praying  over  my  dream 
of  coming  to  New  York  and  meeting  Julie 
and  all  the  dear  people  in  Helen  Trent. 
I  felt  it  must  happen  someday,  when  or 
how  I  did  not  know.  When  Beth  came 
along,  it  was  the  answer  to  prayer  for 
both  of  us." 

The  answer  to  prayer.  And,  eventually, 
dramatic  proof  that  dreams  can  come  true. 
For,  just  a  few  days  after  Melody's 
"thank  you"  party  for  Helen  Trent,  little 
Beth  sang  on  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent 
Scouts — and  won.  Now  using  the  pro- 
fessional name  of  Beth  Bonae,  she  has 
made  a  number  of  network  appearances 
and  already  seems  destined  for  stardom. 
But,  at  the  time  Beth  and  Melody  met, 
this  was  all  in  the  future.  Melody  had 
not  yet  completed  plans  for  coming  to 
New  York  to  give  her  Helen  Trent  party. 

"I  felt  close  to  Julie  and  all  the  others," 
Melody  recalls,  "yet — of  course — they 
didn't  know  I  existed,  and  it  took  courage 
to  do  something  about  it.  I  did  not  want 
to  intrude  on  their  privacy,  and  I  real- 
ized that,  if  they  took  time  to  see  many 
people  like  me,  it  would  seriously  inter- 
fere with  their  work.  I  had  some  idea  of 
what  busy  lives  they  led,  so  I  hesitated  a 
long,  long  time.  They  had  given  me  so 
much,  I  did  feel  that,  somehow,  I  must 
find  a  way  to  tell  them  so.  During  those 
years  of  waiting,  I  felt  like  a  painter  who 
puts  a  dab  of  paint  on  his  canvas,  a  little 
at  a  time,  until  the  entire  picture  is  com- 
pleted. I  knew  that,  every  time  I  put  the 
smallest  drab  blob  of  doubt  on  my  pic- 
ture, it  had  to  be  taken  off  and  replaced 
with  the  right  color,  so  I  kept  on  paint- 
ing. And  now,  look  at  this  picture!" 

JMelody  looked  out  across  her  living 
room,  into  the  faces  of  her  friends,  all  of 
them  smiling  back  at  her.  "For  five  years, 
I  have  dared  to  dream  of  this  very  day. 
Now  I  feel  as  if  I  had  been  given  a  little 
glimpse    of   Heaven." 

Melody  couldn't  see  the  tears  that  sprang 
to  their  eyes,  but  she  sensed  their  tender- 
ness toward  her  and  their  rejoicing  with 
her.  Jay  Seymour,  the  photographer  who 
had  come  to  make  a  permanent  record 
in  pictures  of  this  very  special  day,  put 
into  quiet  words  what  everyone  must 
have  been  thinking.  "She  has  more  sight 
in  her  smile  than  most  people  have  in  a 
whole  lifetime,"  Jay  said. 

It  was  Lydia,  however,  who  kept  the 
moment  from  becoming  almost  unbearably 
touching.  Lydia,  who,  with  her  brisk 
tongue,  has  often  performed  the  same 
service  for  Helen  Trent  when  sentiment 
has  threatened  to  overcome  Helen. 

"Melody,"  said  Lydia  (Helene  Dumas), 
"I  know  all  these  people  are  here  to  tell 
you  how  much  they  love  you,  and  they 
are  very  wonderful,  but  I  assure  you 
there  are  no  angels  among  them.  So  it 
can't  be  Heaven." 

That  broke  the  tension,  and  every- 
body's wet  eyes  sparkled  with  laughter. 

It  was  Julie  herself  who  looked  up  at 
David  Gothard,  the  Gil  Whitney  of  Helen 
Trent,  and  whispered  softly:  "It  may  not 
be  Heaven,  David,  but  I  know  we  have  all 
been  lifted  a  little  higher  up  today." 


and  suddenly. ..your  hair  looks  young  again! 

Ever  notice  the  radiance  of  young  hair?  Its  sheen  says,  "young."  This  safe,  simple-to-use 

color  rinse  gleams  hair  in  about  3  minutes.  And  you  needn't  worry  about  changing  your 

hair  so  much  it  causes  talk.  Noreen  just  brings  out  the  best  in  your  own  hair  color#so  right 

for  your  skin  and  eyes.  It  blends  streaks,  tones  in  grays,  evens  up  color ! 

Among  the  1 4  lively  but  subtle  colors  is  one  to  coax  gold 

lights  into  tan  hair,  put  a  glow  in  brown,  make  black 

blacker,  brighten  silver,  and  whiten 

white.  There's  one  for  you  too. 

So  nice . . .  because  it's  so  natural ! 

Now. . .  even  easier  to  use  with 

new  applicator. 


^ 


For 


NOW  READY!   GORGEOUS,  SMART, 
MODERN   STYLE  DRESSES  FOR   ALL 
,;~^  OCCASIONS! 


78 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as- 
sortment of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety  of 
luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons,  cot- 
tons, gabardines,  woolens,  silks, 
etc.  Expensive  dresses — original 
value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cards!  5  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 

MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON! 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.  791  I 

One  of  the  oldeit  and  largest  mail  order  houses  of  its  kind) 

•  103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y. 

!     Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below 

•  with    Free    Button   Cards.    Enclosed    find    $1    de- 
posit,   balance   COD.    plus    postage.    Money    re- 
turned if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and 
foreign  orders  accepted. 
Circle  Site: 

Girl's  Sizes  7,  8.  10.  12,  14  are  5  for  $2.75 
Junior  Miss  Sizes  9,  11,  13,  IS  are  5  for  $3.75 

'Sizes  12,  14,  16,  18.20,38,40,42.44,5  for  $3.75 
ISizesl4!/J,16'/a,i8'/a.20>/z.22'/a.24'/J.Sfor$3.75 
I     Extra  Large  Sizes  46,  48,  50.  52  are  5  for  $4.75 
I      D  Check    here   to   save   C.O.D.    fee.    Send    full 

amount  with  2  5(*  postage. 
,  □  Please    tend  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY 

J     Name 
|      Address 
L    Ci,y  Zone        State 


Every  Day  Is  Father's  Day 


i 
i 
i 


(Continued  from  page   30) 
over   to   the   hospital   and   that   was   that. 

I  still  haven't  gotten  over  that  $1500  bill. 
Counting  all  five  children,  Lois  averaged 
about  two  hours  in  labor,  give  or  take 
fifteen  minutes.  So  what  could  cost?  I 
remember  when  Lois  had  Sharon  (num- 
ber four) ,  we  were  so  sure  of  ourselves 
we  stopped  at  Dave  Chasen's  for  a  sand- 
wich— Lois  said  she  was  hungry. 

I  had  my  stopwatch  with  me,  timing  the 
pains.  The  waitress,  paying  little  attention 
to  Lois,  asked  me  what  I  was  doing  with 
the  watch:    "Timing  a  show?"  she  asked. 

"No,"  I  said,  "I  want  to  make  sure  that 
sandwich  doesn't  take  too  long — I'm  timing 
my  wife's  birth  pains." 

I  might  just  as  well  have  said,  "There's 
a  bomb  hidden  under  the  table!"  She  ran 
into  the  kitchen  to  alert  the  entire  crew. 
They  stuck  their  heads  out — I  suppose  they 
didn't  want  to  miss  a  thing.  The  sandwich? 
Combination  bacon  and  avocado.  Very 
good,  too. 

To  get  back  to  that  $1500:  When  Lois  and 
I  arrived  at  the  hospital,  my  stopwatch 
told  me  the  baby  would  be  here  in  an- 
other hour  and  a  half,  two  hours  at  the 
most.  "Oh,  no,"  the  doctor  said,  "it'll  be  at 
least  six  or  seven  hours.  You  just  relax," 
and  disappeared  into  the  corridors  of  the 
ambulatory  ward. 

An  hour  and  forty-five  minutes  later, 
they  wheeled  Lois  into  the  delivery  room. 
The  baby  was  born  a  few  minutes  after. 
The  doctor?  He  never  did  get  there — but 
his  bill  for  $1500  did! 

Lois  and  I  think  the  more  children  you 
have  the  easier  it  is  to  bring  them  up.  But 
I  never  believed  you  could  bring  up  five 
and  have  each  one  be  so  different  from 
the  others.  After  all,  they  have  the  same 
mother  and  father — you'd  expect  them  to 
have    something    in    common. 

But  they  don't. 

Their  personalities  are  different,  you 
have  to  give  them  different  rewards,  you 
have  to  punish  them  differently,  and  they 
grow  and  advance  differently  at  different 
ages. 

They  don't,  for  example,  all  walk  at  one 
year.  Nor  do  they  all  say  their  first  word 
at  thirteen  months — and  they  certainly 
never  say  the  same  word.  Jack's,  for  ex- 
ample, was  "Mommy";  that's  natural.  But 
Robert's  was  "Duck!"  (We'd  taken  him  to 
see  a  Walt  Disney  short.)  and  Sharon's 
was  "Pillsbury!"  (Don't  ask  me  why— I 
don't  know.) 

And,  as  their  personalities  develop,  they 


go  through  different  stages  at  different  age 
levels.  Jack,  for  example,  was  an  explorer 
from  the  time  he  could  crawl.  Today,  he's 
made  himself  a  rubber  swimsuit  and,  with 
a  crazy,  out-of-this-world  glass  face  mask, 
is  exploring  the  bottom  of  the  Catalina 
Channel. 

But  Robert  didn't  get  to  this  stage  until 
he  was  ten.  He  was  shy,  reclusive  as  a 
child.  At  parties,  he  stood  in  the  corner 
watching.  He  wasn't  a  sissy,  no,  not  at  all. 
But  we  worried  about  his  not  mixing,  not 
venturing  out. 

I  don't  know  what  happened:  But  as 
soon  as  he  turned  his  tenth  year  he  was 
offl  We  can't  keep  him  in  the  house:  Not 
even  at  night.  Recently,  he  joined  the 
Scouts;  they  have  a  teepee  built  in  the 
neighbor's  yard — and  that's  where  he  wants 
to  sleepl 

The  point  is,  children  go  through  differ- 
ent stages  at  different  times.  Some  may 
start  their  dashing-out  period  at  ten,  Others 
may  choose  to  dash  out  at  six  or  sixteen. 

Generally  speaking,  I  think,  children  go 
through  two  different  periods:  I  call  them 
the  physical  and  the  psychological.  The 
physical  comes  first.  That's  where  they  all 
tend  to  fall  on  the  same  corner  of  the 
sidewalk,  step  on  the  same  nails  in  the 
summer. 

Since  Jack  was  our  first  child,  Lois  and 
I  believe  he  had  it  the  hardest.  With  him, 
it  was  like  breaking  through  the  sound 
barrier — we  did  all  our  learning  on  Jack. 
During  his  physical  period,  for  example, 
Lois  and  I  were  all  over  him  with  the 
bandages  and  administering  first-aid.  In 
fact,  Jack  used  to  bump  his  head  just  to 
get  attention.  That,  by  the  way,  may  ac- 
count for  him. 

But,  when  you  have  more  than  one  child, 
you  become  less  concerned  about  these 
physical  mishaps — the  important  thing  is 
to  keep  the  house  neat  and  orderly.  Last 
week,  for  instance,  Robert  came  in  with  a 
yowl.  He'd  cut  his  finger.  I  sent  him  to  the 
back  porch  to  wash  it,  bringing  the  anti- 
septic out  to  him.  When  you've  got  five, 
you  learn  not  to  get  exercised  over  these 
mishaps — the  main  idea  being  to  keep  them 
from  messing  up  the  rug. 

But  the  psychological  problems  are  not 
so  easily  handled:  You  no  sooner  stop 
worrying  about  your  children  falling  down 
and  breaking  their  necks  than  they  start 
going  out  and  losing  their  hearts.  You've 
got  to  be  quick  on  your  feet  to  sense  the 
subtleties  of  these  changes.  For  example, 
one   comes   home — who,   in   the   past,   has 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward   on   .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every  Sunday  Afternoon  on  MUTUAL 
Stations 


"THE  RIDDLE  OF  DR.  SAM"— the  complete  story  of  Marilyn  Sheppard 
and  her  cryptic  husband— in  April  TRUE  DETECTIVE  MAGAZINE 
at  newsstands  now. 


been  a  great  athlete,  the  outdoor  type — 
complaining  that  he's  not  hungry,  can't 
eat.  You  think  it  has  something  to  do  with 
the  stomach?  Not  at  all.  That's  what  used 
to  be  wrong.  Now  it's  the  heart — and  a 
wise  parent  administers  to  these  "bruises" 
as  well  as  to  the  others. 

When  dealing  with  children's  problems, 
whether  physical  or  psychological,  I  have 
one  suggestion:  Don't  get  tense.  The  child 
will  sense  it,  sooner  or  later,  and  tie  up. 
If  he  doesn't  talk  soon  enough,  for  exam- 
ple, don't  insist  that  he  talk.  Rather,  give 
him  plenty  of  warm,  comfortable  affec- 
tion, and  be  sure  you're  not  bossing  him 
too  much.  Give  him  chances  to  be  with 
other  children — he'll  soon  find  some  way 
to  communicate.  He  may  be  bashful,  or 
not  ready,  or  any  number  of  things.  Push- 
ing will  only  make  him  more  silent. 

As  the  children  grow  up,  discipline  be- 
comes more  important — but  less  of  a  prob- 
lem. Let  me  explain:  As  the  kids  grow 
older,  they  have  more  things  they  want 
which  you  can  withhold  from  them  if 
they  misbehave.  If  Dawn  doesn't  study,  for 
example,  her  phone  gets  shut  off  during 
week  nights.  If  Robert  is  bad,  he  doesn't 
get  to  go  next  door  to  sleep  overnight  in 
the  teepee.  When  Sharon  doesn't  clean  up 
her  room,  she  doesn't  watch  TV. 

And  we've  got  some  young  ones  around 
the  house  on  whom  we  still  use  America's 
secret  weapon:  Spanking.  I  think  I  was 
spanked  more  than  any  of  our  kids.  One 
thing  I  learned — you've  got  to  let  them 
know  what  it's  all  about. 

Father,  of  course,  is  the  administrator 
of  corporal  punishment.  I  always  introduce 
the  spanking  as  close  to  the  crime  as  pos- 
sible— and  I  always  give  them  a  chance 
to  explain  themselves.  The  whole  operation 
goes  like  this:  "All  right,  Robert  or  Jack 
or  Dawn  or  Sharon  or  Diane — what's  the 
story?"  In  a  house  of  five,  it's  always  good 


to  get  the  facts,  ma'am,  'cause  you  may 
not  have  caught  the  real  culprit. 

That  three-minute  discussion  is  their 
court  of  appeal.  When  I  say,  "Now,  Rob- 
ert, you  tell  me  why  I  shouldn't  spank 
you,"  Robert  gives  me  his  best  reason.  If  it 
doesn't  hold  water,  he  crawls  across  my 
lap  and  we  turn  to  the  business  at  hand. 
I've  found  the  three-minute  waiting  period 
serves  two  purposes:  It's  not  good  to  spank 
a  child  when  you  are  angry;  and  the  anti- 
cipation heightens  the  psychological  effect 
— the  wait  is  more  painful  than  the  spank- 
ing itself. 

Eating  habits  and  table  manners  seem 
to  be  big  problems  in  many  homes,  but  I 
think  we've  got  this  matter  whipped.  As 
soon  as  the  children  are  able  to  sit  in  high 
chairs,  we  put  them  at  the  table.  Here 
they  learn  by  watching  their  elders. 

The  most  important  thing  about  our  all 
eating  together  is  just  this:  Our  dinner 
time  is  our  fun-time.  The  table  is  a  happy 
place,  the  atmosphere  is  gay.  That  way, 
children  associate  food  with  fun,  they  en- 
joy their  eating — hence,  no  problems. 

How  did  we  create  a  "dinner-time-is- 
fun-time"  environment?  We  drew  on  a 
backlog  of  gags.  For  example,  the  "magic 
nose"  trick. 

Every  kid  in  the  family  has  gone  through 
the  magic  nose  routine.  The  nose  belongs 
to  the  youngest  member  of  the  family — 
until  he  catches  on.  The  nose  is  for  push- 
ing, like  a  doorbell;  the  magic  comes  in 
when  with  each  push  the  maid  appears! 
You'll  have  to  admit  that's  big  magic,  and 
it  never  fails  to  work. 

This  gag  runs  for  a  year  or  so,  as  each 
new  member  joins  us  at  the  table.  Of 
course,  we  all  know  what  brings  the  maid 
running.  Naturally,  it's  not  the  nose — it's 
the  buzzer  under  my  chair.  But  the  magic 
never  fails  to  get  a  happy  laugh  from  five 
youngsters — and  that's  what's  important. 


We  even  have  a  gag  to  solve  table- 
manner  problems.  If  the  children  misbe- 
have, we  send  them  off  to  Siberia — Siberia 
is  the  table  in  the  kitchen.  Because  the 
kids  enjoy  their  meals  so,  we  can  use 
their  desire  to  be  part  of  the  gang,  in 
teaching  good  manners.  Robert,  for  exam- 
ple, couldn't  learn  to  use  a  napkin — he 
wanted  the  expanse  of  white  tablecloth  to 
wipe  his  hands  on.  So  he  was  sent  to 
Siberia.  Because  the  kids  can't  stand  miss- 
ing the  fun  at  the  table,  it  didn't  take  long 
for  greasy  fingers  to  find  their  way  to  the 
napkins. 

And  Jack  was  a  leg-kicker — soon  as  he 
came  to  the  table,  he  kicked  off  his  shoes 
and  started  drumming  against  the  table 
leg  with  his  bare  feet.  Why?  I  don't  know, 
but  it's  not  done  in  polite  society.  I  warned 
him,  but  he  didn't  stop.  Finally  I  had  to 
say:  "Okay,  Jack,  that's  it.  Goodbye,  now, 
you're  off  to  Siberia  .  .  ."  and  off  he  went 
to  eat  by  himself. 

The  treatment  has  never  lasted  more 
than  three  meals. 

So  with  some  gaps,  this  is  the  story  of 
the  Five  Little  Linkletters  and  How  They 
Grew.  Of  course,  Jack  with  his  own  KNX 
radio  show,  is  the  only  one  with  enough 
independence  to  be  considered  "grown" — 
and  he's  still  in  school,  so  I  still  can't 
consider  it  "one  down  and  four  to  go." 

But  when  I  think  of  the  wonderful  warm 
love  and  affection  we  all  trade  back  and 
forth  in  the  family,  I'm  not  sure  I  want 
to  hurry  up  the  growing  process.  It's  really 
great  having  them  all  around. 

And,  when  I  think  of  all  the  Father's 
Days  we've  seen  together,  it  doesn't  seem 
like  such  a  bad  idea  after  all!  Now  that 
I've  reconsidered,  I  take  back  that  motion 
to  replace  Father's  Day  with  two  Mother's 
Days. 

In  fact,  I'm  going  out  right  now  to  get 
a  new  box  to  store  my  loot  in. 


cMw/  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  problem 


Tested  by  doctors...  p wed  in  hospital  clinics 


1.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant''  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 

A4oi7  this  coupon  today  FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 


NORFORItlS 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by  doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


.> 


Just  mail  this  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-54 
Norwich  Pharmacal  Company,  Norwich,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 
plain  envelope. 


y 


Jr 

Name 

T 
¥ 
1 

%.  w 

Street 
City 

(PLE.SE    P*I-.t) 

Zone 

Strife 

A  NORWICH   PRODUCT 

(Continued  from  page  43) 
only  the  beginning.  Once  you  reach  the 
top,  you've  got  to  work  even  harder — if 
you  want  to  stay  there.  In  almost  any 
other  medium,  you  create  an  act  that 
carries  you  for  a  season  or  two.  In  TV, 
as  Red  discovered,  you  create  a  whole 
new  show  each  week — with  no  out-of- 
town  tryouts  to  make  sure  it's  right.  For 
a  top  comedian,  making  people  laugh  is  no 
longer  "show  business" — it's  Big  Business. 
You're  no  longer  just  a  performer,  you're 
an  investment.  A  network  might  estimate 
your  worth  at  two  million  dollars  a  year, 
as  they  had  for  Red.  They  can  even 
measure  how  funny  you  are — by  the 
show's  ratings — and  these  ratings  are  fol- 
lowed as  closely  as  the  latest  stock  market 
report.  A  TV  comedian  can't  help  feeling 
he  has  to  be  even  funnier  next  week. 
Only,  Red  Buttons  suddenly  didn't  feel 
very  funny.    In  fact,  he  felt  sick. 

No  wonder  exhaustion  was  becoming  the 
sign  of  a  top  TV  comic,  just  as  ulcers  are 
said  to  be  the  mark  of  a  successful  busi- 
nessman. And  when  Red  Buttons  was  re- 
ported in  the  hospital — when  he  stayed 
there  one  week,  two  weeks,  then  three — 
the  crowd  at  Lindy's  feared  that  maybe 
the  strain  had  got  him,  too. 

But  the  millions  who  watch  The  Red  But- 
tons Show  were  right.  Nothing  can  really 
get  Red  down.  He  came  out  of  the  hospi- 
tal looking  as  young  and  eager  and  happy- 
go-lucky  as  the  characters  he  plays. 

"It  was  just  a  strep  throat,"  he  said, 
surprised  at  all  the  fuss.  "Well,  look,"  he 
persisted,  "we're  entitled  to  get  sick  once 
in  a  while,  too."  And  then  he  plunged 
back  into  work,  even  harder  than  before. 

out,  if  it's  any  strain,  it  certainly  doesn't 
show.  Red's  back  on  the  air,  and  "The  Ho 
Ho  Song"  sounds  as  gay  and  light-hearted 
as  ever.  It  should,  for  Red's  a  very 
healthy  guy,  with  a  very  healthy  point  of 
view.  After  twenty-four  years  of  ups- 
and-downs  in  show  business,  he  can  take 
success  in  his  stride,  knowing  that  nothing 
lasts — and  what  of  it? 

"You  live  from  week  to  week  on  TV," 
he  says.  But  you've  only  to  talk  to  him  a 
few  minutes  to  see  that  he  likes  it  that 
way.  Living  from  week  to  week  means 
living  in  the  present,  making  the  most  of 
the  given  moment,  doing  the  best  you  can 
with  the  job  at  hand.  So,  if  Red  is-  one  of 
the  hardest  workers  in  the  business,'  it 
isn't  because  he's  worried  about  keeping 
on  top.  He's  more  concerned  about  keep- 
ing happy.  And  TV  has  taught  him  how. 
It's  simple. 

"Stay  busy,"  he  says,  "you  stay  happy." 

In  his  own  case,  however,  it's  more  than 
just  staying  busy — it's  staying  busy  at  the 
thing  he  enjoys  most.  For,  as  far  back  as 
Red  can  remember,  he  was  always  the 
little  guy  who  "just  wanted  to  make  peo- 
ple laugh."  Certainly,  that  was  the  only 
reason  that  young  Aaron  Chwatt  (as  he 
was  born)  placed  that  thumbtack  on  the 
teacher's  chair  at  Hebrew  school  on  the 
Lower  East  Side  of  Manhattan.  But,  even 
as  a  child,  Red  was  to  learn  that  you  can 
pay  a  price  for  being  funny.  In  this  case, 
he  was  expelled. 

It  didn't  stop  Red  from  making  people 
laugh,  however.  At  his  high  school  grad- 
uation, he  was  warned  not  to  do  anything 
to  spoil  the  ceremony.  Red  tried  to  be- 
have. But,  after  he  was  handed  his  diplo- 
ma, he  couldn't  help  himself.  He  trucked 
across  the  stage  with  it — and  brought 
down  the  house! 

Professionally,  however,  he  didn't  start 

out  to  be  a  comedian.    He  had  a  fine  voice 

and,    though    he    never    took    lessons,    he 

started  singing  in  public  while  still  quite 

80 


How  to  Be  Happy 

young — mostly  in  choirs  and  amateur 
shows.  Then,  while  attending  the  Evander 
Childs  High  School  in  the  Bronx,  he  spent 
his  summers  singing  for  room  and  board 
at  various  mountain  resorts. 

"In  the  spring  of  1935,"  Red  recalls,  "I 
got  a  job  as  a  singing  bellhop  in  a  place 
called  Ryan's,  in  City  Island  (on  the  out- 
skirts of  New  York).  That's  where  I  got 
my  stage  name — from  red  hair,  and  the 
buttons  on  my  bellhop  uniform. 

"That  same  summer — I  was  sixteen  and 
a  half  then — I  became  a  staff  singer  in  the 
Catskills.  I  was  getting  one  and  a  half 
bucks,  plus  room  and  board."  Red  pauses 
to-  laugh — not  at  his  salary,  but  at  what 
happened  to  his  singing  career.  "I  re- 
member, I  was  singing  a  song,  'My  Mom, 
I  Love  Her' — only,  suddenly,  it  was  'Old 
Man  River'  that  was  coming  out!  In  the 
middle  of  the  song,  my  voice  changed." 

It  was  hilarious,  it  was  tragic — his  first 
bad  break  in  show  business.  Red  passes 
it  off  as  "bad  timing,"  but  it  set  a  pattern 
for  a  series  of  misfortunes  that  was  to 
plague  him  for  the  next  seventeen  years. 
Crazy  breaks — enough  to  ruin  a  lesser 
man's  career — and  yet  so  wildy  implausi- 
ble that  you  had  to  laugh  at  them. 

Even  with  the  first  setback,  Red  was  to 
learn  that  a  bad  break  can  turn  into  a 
good  one,  after  all.  When  his  singing  ca- 
reer died  with  a  croak,  he  turned  happily 
to  comedy.  "They  kept  me  on  as  a 
stooge — a  'third  banana.'  You  know,  the 
guy  who  gets  hit  with  the  seltzer  bottle." 

After  the  hotel  in  the  mountains,  Red 
worked  club  dates  at  night,  and  appeared 
at  bar  mitzvahs,  weddings,  stag  dinners, 
and  meetings  of  the  Knights  of  Pythias. 
By  1937,  he  was  in  burlesque.  Harold 
Minsky  hired  him  for  forty  dollars  a  week 
because  he  had  a  "cute,  fast  routine  and 
a  face  that  kinda  reminded  me  of  Mickey 
Rooney."  He  was  eighteen  then — "the 
youngest  comedian  in  burlesque." 

Looking  back  on  it,  Red  feels  that  his 
success  in  TV  was  made  possible  by  his 
training  in  burlesque.  "There  is  no  sub- 
stitute for  experience,"  he  says.  "You 
have  to  know  how  to  do  everything  better 
than  anyone  else,  but  there's  no  place  to 
learn  any  more." 

And  then  the  crazy  breaks  started  up 
again.  Four  years  after  Minsky  had 
signed  Red  for  the  old  Gaiety  Theater  in 
New  York,  Mayor  La  Guardia  closed  up 
all  the  burlesque  houses.  And  then  Jose 
Ferrer,  who  had  caught  Red's  act  in  Phila- 
delphia, signed  him  for  the  juvenile  lead 
in  his  new  stage  farce,  "The  Admiral  Had 
a  Wife."  Only — who  but  Red  Buttons 
would  get  his  first  big  chance  in  a  Broad- 
way play  ...  a  play  with  a  Pearl  Harbor 
setting  ...  a  play  that  was  slated  to  open 
(although  it  never  did)  the  day  after  De- 
cember 7,  1941? 

He  got  parts  in  two  other  legitimate 
plays,  but  nothing  came  of  them,  either. 
Then  he  traveled  to  Quebec  for  a  bit  part 
in  a  movie — and  the  director  decided  that 
he  would  economize  by  hiring  strictly  lo- 
cal talent.  In  1943,  however,  Red  got  his 
big  chance:  A  major  part  in  a  Hollywood 
film.  He  was  all  set  to  take  a  train  to  Cali- 
fornia— when  his  draft  notice  arrived. 

But  Red  thinks  of  this  as  one  of  the 
good  breaks.  He  was  assigned  to  a  leading 
role  in  the  Army  Air  Force  production  of 
"Winged  Victory,"  and  got  to  Hollywood, 
after  all,  playing  the  same  role  in  the  film 
version.  The  Army  performance  which  Red 
enjoyed  even  more,  however,  took  place 
in  Potsdam  at  the  time  of  the  historic  con- 
ference in  1945.  He  emceed  a  show  which 
included  in  its  audience  Harry  Truman, 
Winston   Churchill   and   Joseph   Stalin. 


The  following  year,  Corporal  Red  But- 
tons was  discharged  from  the  service  and 
returned  to  his  career  as  an  entertainer, 
playing  vaudeville  and  the  Catskill  circuit. 
In  Hollywood,  he  got  a  part  in  a  picture. 
It  was  only  one  word.  ("Go!"  he  said — 
but  he  said  it  to  James  Cagney.)  Four 
years  later,  RKO  paid  him  $1500  for  two 
comedy  routines,  but  cut  one  out  before 
releasing  the  film.  On  Broadway,  he  played 
in  two  productions:  "Barefoot  Boy  with 
Cheek"  and  "Hold  It."  He  also  did  eight 
or  nine  guest  shots  on  TV,  but  nothing 
happened  to  herald  him  as  a  genius  in  the 
entertainment  field. 

In  his  private  life,  however,  something 
wonderful  had  happened.  He  had  met 
Helayne  McNorton  in  Lindy's.  A  mutual 
friend  introduced  them.  Helayne  recalled 
that  she  had  caught  his  show  at  the  Copa 
City  in  Florida  a  few  months  before.  He 
asked  if  he  could  see  her  home.  Several 
dates  later,  he  found  that  she  could  make 
blintzes  even  better  than  his  mother.  They 
were  married  one  night  in  1949,  after  the 
last  show  at  the  Paramount  Theater,  where 
Red  was  playing.  Then  they  took  off  for 
Miami  Beach,  where  Red  had  a  night- 
club engagement. 

Three  years  later,  Mario  Lewis,  CBS 
Executive  Producer,  discovered  Red  in  a 
night  club  and  brought  him  to  TV.  His 
first  season  on  the  air,  Red  ranked  in  the 
first  five  of  TV's  most  popular  shows. 
When  he  returned  to  the  air  the  following 
year,  he  had  a  ready-made  audience  of 
thirty  million  fans — one  of  the  most  loyal 
audiences  in  TV.  Last  October,  Red 
switched  to  NBC,  where  his  show  is  now 
seen  three  out  of  every  four  Friday  nights. 

Red  and  Helayne  now  live  in  a  five- 
room  terrace  apartment  on  New  York's 
swank  Sutton  Place.  But  Red  also  main- 
tains a  suite  of  offices  at  the  Great  North- 
ern Hotel.  "I  try  to  keep  my  business  life 
and  my  personal  life  intact,"  he  says. 
Helayne  may  scarcely  see  him  all  week, 
but,  as  Red  says:  "I'm  awful  busy  Monday 
through  Friday,  but  I  don't  work  one  inch 
past  eight-thirty  on  Friday."  Then  he 
heads  for  home.  "Our  weekends  are  very 
quiet — nothing  spectacular."  But  they 
mean  a  lot  to  him.  They're  the  breathing 
space  that  enables  him  to  keep  up  his 
hard-working  pace.  And  the  time  he 
spends  with  Helayne — that's  what  life's 
really   all  about. 

He  spends  all  his  non-working  hours 
with  her,  taking  her  out  to  dinner  or  the 
theater  or  the  fights.  Mostly,  they  just 
sit  around  the  apartment.  Occasionally, 
now  that  Red's  on  TV  only  three  Friday's 
out  of  four,  they  fly  down  to  Miami  for 
"a  little  sun."  Last  summer,  when  Red  had 
a  twelve-week  vacation,  they  traveled 
about  the  country  together,  visiting  friends. 

As  for  that  Monday-through-Friday  pe- 
riod when  Red's  tied  up  in  writers'  con- 
ferences and  rehearsals — well,  Helayne 
understands  the  hours  of  painstaking  labor 
it  takes  to  create  one  carefree  moment  on 
TV,  the  planning  and  practice  that  lie 
behind  each  impromptu  laugh.  Far  from 
resenting  her  husband's  preoccupation, 
she's  fairly  preoccupied  herself.  At  the 
City  College  of  New  York,  Helayne  is  tak- 
ing seven  Adult  Education  courses — every- 
thing from  Vocabulary  to  Social  Work.  In 
addition,  she  spends  three  days  a  week 
doing  volunteer  work  at  Bellevue  Hospital. 

When  Red  comes  home  at  night,  she's 
liable  to  be  busy  at  her  ceramics  and  hold 
up   her   latest   masterpiece   for   inspection. 

"What   do   you   think   of  my  monkey?" 

As  far  as  Red's  concerned,  "I'm  for  it 
a  million  per  cent.  Stay  busy — you  stay 
happy.  That's  true  of  everybody." 


Faith  in  Each  Other 

{Continued  from  page  37) 
Vista  Community  Church.  She  had  vol- 
unteered to  take  care  of  the  two-to-four- 
year-old  children  during  Sunday  school. 
Five  minutes  after  9:30  A.M.,  a  tall,  dark 
and  handsome  young  man  came  in  to  say: 
"You're  wanted  downstairs  in  the  nursery 
department,  Miss  McMillan.  They're  short 
of  girls  this  morning.  .  .  ." 

Gloria  followed  the  young  man  down- 
stairs. "I  took  over  an  older  group  of 
children,"  says  Gloria.  "When  I  came  in, 
they  were  all  fighting!  I  didn't  know  what 
to  do.  I  felt  so  useless.  I  didn't  know  a 
thing  about  handling  the  older  kids.  When 
I  saw  this  mob  of  shouting  junior  athletes, 
I  was  panicked! 

"Then  the  young  man  in  the  doorway 
suggested  that  we  play  a  game.  I  thought, 
"That's  a  life  saver'  .  .  .  and  started  the 
children  playing  'Squirrel  in  a  Tree.'  But, 
when  I  turned  around  to  thank  him,  he 
was  gone." 

After  Sunday  school,  Gloria  crossed  the 
patio  for  church,  but  stopped  as  a  voice 
said:  "Hi!"  It  was  the  same  young  man, 
and  it  was  obvious  that  he  had  been  sitting 
on  the  brick  wall  around  the  patio  tree, 
waiting.  "Going  to  church?"  he  asked. 

"Yes.  .  .  ." 

"That's  fine.  So  am  I."  And  Gloria 
found  herself  with  an  escort.  Was  she 
upset?    Not  a  bit. 

After  church,  they  sat  in  the  patio  and 
talked  about  the  different  church  ac- 
tivities they  were  in.  The  young  man  told 
Gloria  about  his  Christian  Endeavor  group, 
Gloria  told  him  about  the  girls'  club  she 
led.  He  then  said,  "The  C.E.  meets  Sunday 
night.  Why  don't  you  come  over  some 
time?" 

"Fine,"  said  Gloria,  "I'll  come  some 
Sunday  real  soon." 

"How  about  tonight?"  said  the  young 
man. 

They  both  had  stood  up  then.  Gloria 
noticed  the  young  man  was  even  taller 
than   she'd   thought. 

"All  right,"  she  said,  in  a  matter-of-fact 
tone.    But  she  really  meant,  "Oh,  yes!" 

"Fine,"  he  said.  "My  brother  and  his 
fiance  lead  the  group.  We'll  pick  you  up  at 
eight." 

"I'll  be  waiting,"  said  Gloria.  "By  the 
way  .  .  .  what's  your  name?" 

Gil  Allen  was  his  name.  He  was  a 
student  of  Airlines  Administration  at  the 
University  of  Southern  California.  And 
that's    how    they    met. 

"That  night,"  says  Gloria,  "Gil  picked  me 
up  at  home,  with  his  brother  and  future 
sister-in-law.  The  four  of  us  went  to  the 
youth  group  and  had  a  tremendous  time. 
After  the  meeting,  we  went  out  for  coffee 
and  doughnuts.  We  talked  mostly  about 
what  a  wonderful  inspiration  it  was  to 
work  with  the  youngsters  at  C.E. 

"Then  we  went  home.  I  didn't  see  Gil 
again  until  Tuesday  night  .  .  .  but  I 
thought  about  him  all  day.  That  night  was 
our  first  real  date.  He  called  me  and  said 
he  would  be  free  after  his  night  class  at 
U.S.C.,  if  I  would  be  free  after  work.  He 
asked,  'Would  you  like  to  go  out  for  more 
coffee  and  doughtnuts  .  .  .  ?'  I  said 
'Yes.  .  .  .'  He  came  over  at  10  P.M.  and 
we  went  out  to  Coffee  Dan's. 

"We  talked  for  three  straight  hours.   We 


Don't  miss  the 

BIG  MAY  AWARDS  ISSUE 
of  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  April  7 


read: 


TRUE  ROMANCE 


don't  miss: 

HIGH 

SCHOOL 

CHEAT 

I   had  an  urge  to  do 

something  great  and 

important  for  the  guy 

I  loved — an  urge  I 

couldn't   control. 


don't  miss: 

I  DREADED  HIS  KIND  OF  LOVE 

Life  was  more  than  working  and  bearing  children, 
life  was  more  than  living  just  for  your  husband's 
pleasure,  life  was  more  than  being  a  barnyard  wife. 

PLUS:   Great   Prize   Stories: 

I  Followed  My  Love  to  a  Strange  Land 

Guttersnipe 

Captive  Wife 


PLUS:     Many     other     powerful, 
absorbing    stories     and    features 

PLUS:  MORE  COLOR! 
BEAUTIFUL  4-COLOR  IL- 
LUSTRATIONS! 


JNiEmim 


WttSW 


ALL  NEW!  In  the 
issue  of 

TRUE 

April 

WIFE      \j; 

MGHSCB801     1:- 
CHUT          \ 

ROMANCE 

■V  A  S71UNCE  UJVD 

On  Sale  Now  At  Newsstands 
Everywhere 


1 


*— .'w^. 


81 


82 


THIS  GORGEOUS  BOOK  IS  REALLY  .  .  . 

HOLLYWOOD 
IN  REVIEW 


It's  better  than  ever!  It  contains  more  news  and  pictures 
about  all  the  stars  of  Hollywood  than  ever  before.  Yes,  the 
exciting,  new  1955  edition  of  PHOTOPLAY  ANNUAL  is 
sensational.  It's  a  treasure-mine  of  information  about  the 
stars  ...  a  real  Who's  Who  in  Hollywood.  This  colorful 
and  glamorous  year  book  is  THE  book-of-the-year — as  far 
as  Hollywood  is  concerned.  Get  your  copy  of  this  prize 
book  before  they  are  all  snatched  up.  Here  is  what  you  get 
in  this  great  yearbook: 

NEWS  EVENTS  OF  THE  YEAR— 20  exciting  pages  In 
pictures  and  text  covering  the  nionth-by-month  weddings — 
separations — divorces — births — awards — scoops. 

PERSONALITIES  OF  THE  YEAR— Stories  and  pictures 
of  Robert  Wagner  •  Janet  Leigh,  Tony  Curtis  •  Debbie 
Reynolds  •  Rock  Hudson  •  Marilyn  Monroe  •  Guy  Madi- 
son •  Audrey  Hepburn  •  Audie  Murphy. 

LOVE  SCENES — Beautiful  full-page  scenes  of  the  stars 
from  ten  top  shows  of  the  year. 

DANCERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Action  pictures  and  bio- 
graphical sketches  of  Cyd  Charisse  •  Vera-Ellen  •  The 
Champions   •    Taina  Elg   •    Leslie  Caron   •   Mitzi  Gaynor. 

PERFORMERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Here  you  get  portraits 
as  well  as  action  shots  from  their  big  pictures,  plus  the 
autographs  of  Marlon  Brando  •  June  Allyson  •  Van  Johnson 

•  Judy  Garland  •  Robert  Mitchum  •  Gary  Cooper  • 
Burt  Lancaster  •   Ava  Gardner. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES— Beautiful  pictures,  plus  thumb- 
nail sketches  of  Alan  Ladd  •  Susan  Hayward  •  Dean 
Martin   •   Jerry  Lewis   •   Jeanne  Crain   •    William  Holden 

•  Eleanor  Parker  •  Clark  Gable  •  Betty  Grable  •  Victor 
Mature  •  Virginia  Mayo  •  Robert  Taylor  •  Barbara 
Stanwyck  •   Richard  Widmark  •  John  Wayne. 

SONGSTERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Doris  Day  •  Howard  Keel 

•  Jane  Powell  •  Bins  Crosby  •  Danny  Kaye  •  Rosemary 
Clooney  •    Frank  Sinatra. 

PORTRAIT  GALLERY— Full-page  pictures  of  Esther 
Williams  •  Elizabeth  Taylor  •  Montgomery  Clift  •  Jeff 
Chandler  •  Stewart  Granger  and  Jean  Simmons  •  Ann 
Blyth  •  Charlton  Heston  •  Piper  Laurie  •  Scott  Brady  • 
Jane  Russell   •   John  Derek. 

ASCENDING  STARS-  These  are  the  names  that  are 
making  news.  Some  have  just  flashed  into  sight — some  now 
hlne  with  an  extra  radiance— Terry  Moore  •  George 
Nader  •  Edmund  i'linlnin  •  .lack  la-inirmn  •  Richard  Bur- 
ton •  Barbara  Rush  •  Susan  Cabot  •  Jeff  Richards  • 
Sieve  Forrest  •  Doe  Avedon  •  Audrey  Dalton  •  Race 
Gentry  •  Russ  Tamblyn  •  Sarita  Monllcl  •  Elaine  Stew- 
;iri  •  Jeffrej  Hunter  •  Elroy  Hired)  •  Rhonda  Fleming  • 
Pal  Crowley  •  Ben  Cooper  •  Lorl  Nelson  •  Robert  Stack  • 
.lull. i   Adams  •   Su/.an   Ball   •    Maria   English. 

ONLY  50?— WHILE  THEY   LAST 

This  sensational  Yearbook  hcIIh  out  practically  aB  Boon  aa 
It  Ib  put  on  sale.  Don't  bo  disappointed  this  year — only 
50c  at  notVHfltands  or  mall  coupon  with  60c — TODAY. 

I 1 

|    PHOTOPLAY  Dept.    WG-455   j 

|    205  E.  42  St..  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 

j   Send    me    postpaid    a    copy    of    PHOTOPLAY 
ANNUAL  1955.  I  enclose  50c. 

Name 

|     PK-nt-    Print 

I    Address I 

I  I 

I   City State | 

I J 


found  we  had  so  many  things  in  common, 
we  didn't  notice  how  the  time  flew  by. 
We  never  realized  that  Coffee  Dan's 
wanted  to  close!  They  put  the  chairs  up 
on  the  tables,  everything — finally  had  to 
turn  off  the  lights,  before  we  got  the  hint! 
Yes,  we  were  interested   in  one   another. 

"After  that  first  Tuesday  night,  we  saw 
one  another  every  day  until  we  were 
married.  From  the  very  first  moment,  we 
knew  we  had  a  lot  in  common.  Though 
Gil  is  a  business -administration  student,  he 
is  interested  in  the  theater.  We  both  share 
an  enthusiasm  for  sports.  And,  most  im- 
portant, we  both  feel  close  to  the  church. 

"It  made  me  feel  kind  of  strange,  you 
know,  when  I  introduced  Gil  to  people 
in  show  business.  Some  of  them  asked,  'Is 
he  in  the  business?'  I  said,  'No.'  Then 
they  asked,  'Well,  where  did  you  meet?' 
They  gave  me  a  strange  look  when  I 
answered,    'In    church.' 

"It's  because  of  that  very  fact  that  I'm 
most  optimistic.  Sure,  the  first  years  are 
said  to  be  the  hardest — that's  when  you 
knock  off  all  the  rough  edges.  But,  with 
our  religion  in  common,  with  it  as  a  basis 
to  work  from,  we  know  we  can  work  out 
any  problem.  Not  that  any  have  come 
up,  as  yet. 

I  don't  see  how  they  ever  can.  Gil  is 
almost  the  perfect  man.  He's  kind,  gentle, 
understanding.  We've  never  had  an  argu- 
ment. My  mother,  you  know,  has  always 
expected  me  to  have  a  career,  ever  since 
my  father  died.  She  didn't  want  anything 
to  upset  the  plans  we  both  had  shared 
ever  since  I  was  four  years  old.  It  was  up 
to  Gil  to  win  her  over.  Needless  to  say, 
Mother  loves  him  now,  as  I  do. 

"During  our  courtship,  we  discovered 
how  many  interests  we  did  share.  For 
example,  Gil's  interest  in  our  new  pro- 
vincial apartment  is  phenomenal — he  was 
willing  to  hook  rugs  to  prove  it!  Eve  Arden 
started  me  hooking  on  the  set  of  Our  Miss 
Brooks.  I  brought  the  beginning  home  to 
show  Gil — next  day,  he  came  in  with  a 
special  design.  He  had  some  friends  of  his, 
who  are  animators  at  Metro,  draw  the  pat- 
tern. There  are  sixteen  patterned  squares 
and  sixteen  plain  squares.  When  we  hook 
them  together,  we'll  have  a  rug  nine  feet 
by  twelve. 

"The  square  we  are  just  completing  now 
shows  a  boy  and  girl  on  a  tandem  bicycle 
— an  old-fashioned  couple — the  boy  has  a 
handle-bar  mustache  and  wears  white 
duck  pants,  and  the  girl  has  a  bright 
umbrella.     It's    cute. 

"When  we  were  still  courting,  we  hooked 
on  the  rug  instead  of  going  out.  One  night 
we  sat  up  watching  one  of  the  telethons — 
hooked  all  night!  Went  out,  when  it  was 
light,  for  breakfast;  came  back,  finished  the 
square,  then  went  off  to  church! 

"But  I'm  getting  ahead  of  my  story.  I've 
skipped  the  most  important  part — our  en- 
gagement. Our  romance  has  been  sym- 
bolically tied  together  with  a  red  hair 
ribbon.  We  went  out  to  a  picnic  one  after- 
noon, a  blue  denim  affair,  and  I  put  my 
hair  up  in  a  red  ribbon.  But  on  the  way 
home  the  curl  was  out  and  my  hair 
straight,  so  I  decided  to  take  the  ribbon 
off  and  comb  my  hair.  I  left  the  ribbon 
in  the  car. 

"The  next  day,  I  saw  that  Gil  had  the 
ribbon  securely  tied  in  a  bow  around  his 
automobile  gear  shift.  That  was  Easter 
week — and  that  day  we  were  going  up  to 
Big  Bear,  for  a  short  vacation,  where  we 
were  to  meet  Gil's  family  at  their  cabin. 

"I  just  knew  that  this  was  the  day  he 
was  going  to  ask  me.  Don't  ask  me  how  I 
knew,  I  just  knew.  All  the  way  up  he 
started  to  speak  and  then  didn't.  Well,  I 
encouraged  him  with,  'Yes,  Gil,  what  is 
it?'  and  'Were  you  going  to  say  some- 
thing?'  But  he  never  quite  got  it  out. 


"Finally,  when  we  left  San  Bernardino 
and  started  up  the  mountain,  he  began  his 
proposal.  I  knew,  of  course,  that  it  was  a 
proposal,  though  the  words  never  exactly 
made  sense.  Finally,  after  thirty-five  miles 
on  the  mountain  road — and  verbal  twisting 
and  turning,  too — he  stopped  at  Inspiration 
Point  and  parked  the  car.  He  stammered 
for  just  a  moment,  then  took  a  deep  breath 
and  very  sentimentally  said,  'It  would  be 
nice  if  this  little  red  hair  ribbon  could  tie 
us  together  forever.' 

"Well,  I  felt  a  girl  never  had  a  more 
picturesque  spot,  nor  sweeter  words  in  a 
proposal.  I  shall  treasure  them  forever. 
I  remember  thinking,  as  I  looked  off  In- 
spiration Point  into  the  long  miles  of 
valley:  That  is  a  view  of  the  years  together 
ahead  of  us,  and  the  serenity  of  the 
mountain  scene  is  the  peace,  we  are  to 
share  in  our  future. 

"We  announced  our  engagement  to  Gil's 
parents  at  the  cabin,  and  to  my  mother 
when  we  got  home.  I  well  remember  the 
engagement  party:  It  was  to  be  in  the 
form  of  an  open  house  on  Sunday  after- 
noon for  one  hundred  people.  Gil  and  I 
worked  together  from  start  to  finish  on 
the  whole  thing.  We  took  little  paper  nut 
cups  and  made  bells  out  of  them.  We 
turned  them  upside  down  and  threaded 
pink  and  white  peppermint  Lifesavers 
through  to  make  the  bell  part  and  then 
wrapped  them  in  Cellophane  and  tied  them 
with  ribbons.  On  the  ribbons  we  had  two 
red  hearts  with  our  names  in  white.  We 
made  two  hundred  of  these. 

"We  took  all  day  Saturday  decorating 
the  house.  Relaxing  about  11  P.M.  and 
thinking  our  work  done,  we  discovered 
that  the  cake  dishes  my  sister  was  to  bring 
in  from  Ontario — California,  that  is — 
weren't  here!  We  thought  she  had  brought 
them  in,  but  she  hadn't.  So  we  drove  clear 
out  to  Ontario  and  back;  came  home  at 
4  A.M.  Got  up  for  church  early  next 
morn,  of  course.  At  the  party,  I  was  so 
weary  that,  when  they  announced  the 
engagement,  I  found  myself  thinking: 
Gloria   .   .   .  who's  Gloria   .   .  .   ? 

After  the  party,  Gil  and  I  discussed  our 
future;  our  honeymoon  would  take  us  to 
San  Francisco.  The  show  gave  me  Friday 
off,  so  we  had  Thursday  through  Sunday! 
Then  we  were  to  come  home  to  our  apart- 
ment. It  is  just  darling:  The  living  room  is 
an  L-shape  and  the  whole  front  wall  is 
just  one  big  window.  It  is  small,  but  it 
gives  a  feeling  of  spaciousness.  One  wall  of 
the  dining  area  is  all  brick — we  intend  to 
cover  it  with  brass  and  copper  pieces  to 
go  along  with  our  provincial  furniture. 

"As  for  children,  we  think  we  should 
wait  a  bit.  Gil  is  still  in  school,  you  know; 
then  there  is  the  show.  And  after  Gil  gets 
his  Master's  Degree,  there's  the  possi- 
bility of  two  years  of  service.  Besides  all 
this,  we  want,  if  we  can,  to  go  to  Europe 
together  before  we  have  a  family." 

Gloria's  wedding  took  place  in  the  little 
Beverly  Vista  Community  Church  in  Bev- 
erly Hills.  "The  church  is  just  perfect  for 
a  wedding — not  too  large  and  not  too 
small,"  she  says.  "It  is  plain,  but  cozy. 
The  panels  are  all  dark  oak,  and  there  is 
a  dark  maroon  carpet  down  the  aisle.  We 
had  an  all  pink  wedding:  Pink  ribbons 
outlining  the  pews,  and  pink  flowers  on 
the  altar.  Only  the  candles  were  white,  to 
set  off  the  flowers.  Gale  Gordon— who 
plays  my  father,  Mr.  Conklin,  on  Our  Miss 
Brooks — gave  me  away  and  Eve  Arden's 
daughter,  Connie,  was  one  of  our  flower 
girls.  The  wedding  was  a  wonderful 
dream,  a  dream  that  had  begun  nine 
months  before.  I  remember  thinking  as  I 
looked  up  into  Gil's  eyes,  when  I  said  my 
'I  do's,'  how  right  it  was  for  the  dream 
to  reach  fulfillment  in  the  little  church 
where  it  all  began." 


Mickey  Emerson  Looks  at  Marriage 


(Continued  from  page  35) 
unhappy.  I  don't  know  a  time  when  I 
wasn't  happy.  And  I  kind  of  liked  moving 
around.  Good  training  for  show  business, 
anyhow.  Sometimes  I  lived  with  Mother, 
sometimes  with  Dad  (James  Kirkwood, 
star  of  stage  and  screen).  Then  I  lived 
with  my  mother's  sister  for  a  while.  For 
a  time,  I  also  stayed  at  a  ranch  in  the  San 
Joaquin  Valley,  and  later  went  to  boarding 
and  prep  school. 

"In  Mickey's  case,  it's  different.  Hes 
always  had  a  settled  home,  and  the  thought 
of  anything  happening  to  it  disturbs  him. 
A  lot  of  things  disturb  him.  He  has  prob- 
lems. He  gets  all  tied  up  in  knots.  .  .  . 
Personally,  I'm  not  like  that.  I  kind  of  take 
things  in  stride.  I'm  pretty  lucky,  I  guess. 
Money  problems,  career  problems,  sure — 
everybody  has  those.  But  I  don't  get  in- 
volved in  a  lot  of  personal  problems.  Even 
my  parents'  divorce  didn't  present  the 
usual  problem.  I'm  fond  of  them  both  and 
never  had  occasion  to  take  sides,  because 
they  remained  good  friends. 

"I  like  playing  Mickey,"  Jim  says  earn- 
estly. "Just  because  I'm  not  too  much 
like  him  doesn't  mean  I  don't  sympathize 
with  his  difficulties.  I  get  real  involved  in 
them  and  kind  of  enjoy  working  them 
out.  It's  funny,  too,  how  sometimes  what 
happens  on  the  show  affects  my  real  life. 

"For  instance,  there's  Mickey's  relation- 
ship with  Bonnie.  When  she  first  appeared 
as  a  roomer,  Mickey  resented  her  as  an 
intruder.  He  didn't  think  his  mother 
needed  to  rent  rooms,  so  he  took  out  his 
peeve  on  poor  Bonnie.  But  then,  as  he 
got  to  know  her  better,  he  began  to  like 
her.  Then  he  fell  in  love  with  her.  Now 
that  she's  disappeared,  he's  determined  to 
find  her  again. 


"Joan  Lorring  was  playing  Bonnie  then," 
says  Jim.  "Mickey's  attitude  certainly 
must  have  affected  me.  Though  I  had 
known  Joan  before,  I  grew  to  like  her  more 
and  more.  We  became  the  best  of  friends 
and  even  started  dating. 

"Then  there's  the  business  with  smoking. 
When  I  started  with  the  show,  Mickey  was 
nineteen,  a  clean-cut  American  boy.  He 
didn't  smoke.  So,  pretty  soon,  I  got  out 
of  the  habit  of  smoking.  I  quit  for  ten 
months.  Then,  one  day,  there  was  the 
line  in  the  script:  'Mickey  lights  a  cig- 
arette.' My  mother — I  mean  Mickey's 
mother — was  surprised.  How  was  it  that  I 
was  smoking,  she  wanted  to  know.  I  an- 
swered off-handedly  that  I  just  thought  I'd 
try  it.  Since  then,  I've  been  smoking 
again — the  real  me,  that  is — even  though 
the  script  hasn't  called  for  Mickey  to 
smoke  again.    I  get  mixed  up,  sometimes." 

Jim  grins  at  the  memory,  then  continues 
more  seriously.  "Even  though  I've  never 
had  a  real  home,  I  can  understand  how 
Mickey  feels  about  his.  Lately,  I've  had 
an  awful  yen  to  have  a  home  of  my  own. 
I  don't  mean  an  apartment  like  this,  but 
a  house  in  the  country — a  nice  old- 
fashioned  house  that  looks  as  though  peo- 
ple had  a  good  time  living  in  it.  I  want 
a  place  where  I  can  entertain  my  friends, 
have  them  in  for  dinner  or  for  a  weekend. 
That's  my  idea  of  fun.  Guess  I'll  have  to 
hire  a  cook,  'cause  I'm  no  darn  good  at  it, 
myself." 

At  the  suggestion  that  he  might  marry 
a  good  cook,  Jim  smiles.  "I'm  not  ready 
for  that  yet,"  he  insists.  "I've  got  to  be 
a  lot  more  secure  than  I  am  now.  I'm  doing 
all  right.  I've  been  pretty  lucky,  working 
regularly  ever  since  I  got  out  of  the  Coast 
Guard.    But  I  want  lots  of  money.    I  don't 


mind  admitting  it.  It  may  not  be  every- 
thing, but  it  sure  helps  a  lot." 

A^  suspiciously  dreamy  look  comes  into 
Jim's  candid  blue  eyes  as  he  muses:  "You 
never  can  tell,  though.  Maybe,  when  I 
have  my  nest,  I'll  want  someone  there  to 
share  it  with  me.  In  the  meantime,  I'm 
hoping  Mother  will  want  to  live  with 
me.  She'd  make  a  wonderful  hostess — 
she's  such  a  grand  person.  Only  I'd  better 
hurry  up  and  get  that  house,  or  she  might 
get  married  again  before  I  find  it." 

Jim  still  doesn't  admit  that  perhaps  he 
might  be  the  one  to  get  married  first.  What 
with  his  six  feet  of  mighty  handsome  male- 
ness,  his  amiable  disposition  and  clean, 
choir-boy  look — that  just  begs  to  be 
mothered — it  would  be  a  rare  female  who 
could  resist  him.  That  he's  reached  twen- 
ty-six still  unshackled  by  bonds  of  matri- 
mony is  something  of  a  miracle.  (And  he 
comes  of  a  family  that  goes  in  for  many 
marriages — his  mother  three  times,  his 
father,  four  .  .  .  which  may  account  for 
Jim's  shyness  about  taking  the  plunge  him- 
self.) 

Another  thing  is  that  Jim  is  really 
wrapped  up  in  his  career.  That  is  the  most 
important  thing  in  his  life.  Romance  is 
secondary.  It's  another  way  in  which  Jim 
differs  from  Mickey. 

"Mickey's  the  kind  of  guy  who — if  he's 
in  love  with  a  girl — forgets  about  every- 
thing else.  He  lets  his  work  slip,  he  thinks 
about  nothing  but  finding  Bonnie.  I've 
never  been  like  that.  Maybe  I've  never 
been  enough  in  love.  Anyhow,  I'd  never 
let  anything  interefere  with  my  work. 

"I  know  how  it  is  with  Mickey.  He's  got 
a  single-track  mind,  like  mine,  but  his  con- 
centrates on  love,  mine  on  work.  When 
I  get  an  idea,  I've  got  to  carry  it  through. 


Wonderful  things  happen  to 

you  when  you  use 

FLAME-GLO  lipstick!  You  look 

prettier . . .  you  are  prettier. 

Flame-Glo  boasts  clear, 

deep-vibrant  colors  that  stay 

lastingly,  flatter  endlessly 

with  a  water-repellent  film  that 

sneers  at  smears.  Only 

velvet-smooth,  dewy-moist 

Flame-Glo  is  blessed 

with  Fastenol,  the  exclusive 

ingredient  that  seals  the 

vivid,  electric  color  to  your 

lips  nntil  you  remove  it! 

So  much  beauty  for 

so  little  cost! 


choose  from  these  flaming  colors: 

bright  pink,  a  glad  pink 
fashion  pink,  a  light  orchid 
raspberry,  a  deep  red 
glamour,  a  light  red 
celebrity,  a  true  red 
medium,  a  b  rilliant  coral 
sun  GOLD,  an  orange  red 
roval  wine,  a  deep  blue-red 


M 


TRIPLE-STAY"  0  LIPSTICK 
15<r,29f  and  39<  plus  t0, 

(slightly  more  in  Canada) 
FLAME-GLO    IS    SOLD    EXCLUSIVELY    AT    CONVENIENT    CHAIN    VARIETY    S    &    10<    STORES    EVERYWHERE 


83 


I  can't  think  about  anything  else,  and 
it  affects  everything  I  do.  Just  as  it  does 
with  Mickey,  when  he's  trying  to  locate 
Bonnie." 

It  took  that  kind  of  determination  for 
Jim  to  get  where  he  is.  It  wasn't  easy, 
what  with  being  separated  from  his 
mother  by  illness  and  the  financial  ups  and 
downs  that  occur  in  most  theatrical 
families.  There  were  times  when  Jim  had 
to  dig  in  and  help,  like  the  time  on  the 
ranch  when  he  did  chores  to  pay  for  his 
keep.  Not  that  he  complains  about  it.  It's 
just  part  of  life,  and  an  experience  he 
enjoyed.  He  liked  the  rugged  outdoor 
life,  riding  six  miles  on  horseback  to  and 
from  school,  milking  four  cows  every 
morning  before  breakfast. 

While  he  was  going  to  high  and  prep 
school  he  worked  in  summer  stock,  get- 
ting the  training  for  the  only  career  in 
which  he  was  interested.  Aside  from  that, 
he  had  no  formal  dramatic  instruction.  But 
the  gift  he  inherited  from  his  parents  was 
sufficient  to  get  the  parts  he  went  after. 
And  his  father's  name  and  renown  as  an 
actor  was  certainly  no  drawback. 

Moving  around  so  much  made  Jim  grow 
up  fast.  Although  he  looks  no  older  than 
the  twenty-year-old  Mickey,  he  is  far  more 
mature  than  even  his  own  twenty-six  years 
would  imply.  He  has  a  keen  sense  of  re- 
sponsibility which  shows  up  in  his  protec- 
tive, big-brother  attitude  toward  his 
mother,  and  in  his  ability  to  manage  his 
affairs  in  an  adult  manner. 

"It's  a  nuisance  to  look  so  young,"  he 
confesses.  "I  don't  want  to  get  typed  as 
a  juvenile.  But,  when  I  go  after  an  older 
part,  I'm  told  I'm  too  young.  I'd  sure  like 
to  grow  up.  I'd  like  to  play  light  comedy 
parts,  such  as  'The  Seven  Year  Itch,'  but, 
as  long  as  I  have  this  baby  face,  I  haven't 
a  chance. 

"Not  that  I  don't  like  working  on  tele- 
vision! It's  swell.  I  enjoy  it  a  lot,  and 
getting  paid  regularly  takes  a  load  off  your 
mind.  When  you're  playing  in  night  clubs, 
you're  forever  having  to  audition  for  a 
new  engagement,  preparing  new  material, 
spending   endless  hours   with   your   agent. 


That's  why  I  gave  up  night  clubs,  at  least 
for  this  year.  Lee  and  I  were  going  great 
with  our  comedy  act  (Kirkwood  and 
Goodman).  We  played  some  good  spots 
— the  Ruban  Bleu  in  New  York,  the  Mo- 
cambo  in  Hollywood,  the  Embassy  in  Lon- 
don, and  others — but  you  get  kind  of  tired 
of  hopping  around,  and  you  don't  know 
how  long  your  popularity  will  last. 

"I  wanted  to  branch  out  into  something 
more  solid  in  the  dramatic  line.  Besides, 
I  want  some  time  to  work  on  a  play  I'm 
writing.  It's  based  on  my  mother's  life, 
sort  of,  and  I'm  having  a  heck  of  a  lot  of 
fun  writing  it.  I  like  to  write  short 
stories,  too.  I  took  a  course  at  New  York 
University  last  year." 

Jim  says  he  really  has  no  time  for  hob- 
bies, what  with  his  acting  and  his  writing 
— they're  actually  more  like  hobbies  than 
work  to  him.  He  does  enjoy  golf  and 
tennis,  however,  but  finds  it  a  little  diffi- 
cult to  work  in  any  games  in  the  city. 
That's  something  he  hopes  to  have  when 
he  gets  that  house  in  the  country — or  pref- 
erably at  the  seashore,  where  he  can  then 
look  forward  to  the  time  when  he  will  be 
able  to  afford  a  boat. 

All  this  sounds  very  serious.  Actually, 
Jim  is  fun-loving,  with  a  pixieish  sense  of 
humor  and  a  sure  comedy  gift  which  made 
critics  hail  the  Kirkwood-Goodman  team 
as  the  most  promising  pair  of  funmakers 
since  Martin  and  Lewis. 

"I  certainly  get  more  fun  out  of  life 
than  poor  Mickey  does,"  he  smiles.  "Will 
I  ever  forget  my  first  and  last  meeting  with 
Anthony  Eden?  It  seems  funny  now,  but, 
boy,  was  I  embarrassed  when  it  happened! 
I  was  staying  overnight  on  a  friend's 
estate  in  Newport.  I  was  playing  in  stock 
there,  and  my  friend  insisted  I  be  his  guest. 
I'd  come  in  late  and  parked  my  car  out- 
side the  guest  cottage  where  I  was  to  sleep. 
I  was  suddenly  awakened  by  the  sound 
of  a  very  familiar  horn.  I  jumped  out  of 
bed  and,  being  in  a  strange  place,  couldn't 
find  my  way  out.  When  I  finally  groped 
my  way  out  the  door,  I  found  my  car,  its 
horn  going  like  a  banshee,  surrounded  by 
a  half-dozen  armed  guards  who  were  try- 


ing desperately  to  shut  the  darn  thing  up. 

"By  that  time,  every  light  in  the  main 
house  was  ablaze.  I  knew  Mr.  Eden  was  a 
guest  there,  recuperating  from  an  opera- 
tion, and  what  he  needed  most  was  rest. 
I'd  tried  to  be  so  quiet  getting  into  the 
place,  and  here  was  that  horn  making 
like  an  air  raid  siren.  I  don't  know  if  Mr. 
Eden  was  disturbed  by  it — you  couldn't 
tell  from  his  manner  the  next  day,  when  I 
was  introduced  to  him  .  .  .  but  then,  he's 
a  diplomat,  so  I'll  probably  never  know. 

"I've  had  a  pack  of  fun  in  my  life,  and 
mean  to  go  on  having  it.  For  one  thing, 
I've  a  lot  of  friends.  And  that's  most 
important  to  me." 

There's  evidence  of  many  friendships  in 
the  apartment  Jim  occupies  while  waiting 
to  find  that  dream  house.  It  is  filled  with 
photographs  of  faces  made  familiar  by 
theatrical  publicity.  In  the  bathroom  of 
this  third-floor  Greenwich  Village  walk- 
up,  there's  a  huge  framed  montage  of 
dozens  on  dozens  of  heads  of  people  Jim 
counts  among  his  friends. 

But  most  prominently  displayed  are  pic- 
tures of  his  parents  in  various  movie  and 
stage  roles  and  mementos  of  their  theatri- 
cal pasts.  In  a  place  of  honor  on  the  man- 
tel above  the  fireplace  is  a  pair  of  boots 
Jim's  mother  wore  in  one  of  her  pic- 
tures. They  are  now  serving  as  bookends. 

This  comfortable  and  amazingly  neat 
(for  bachelor  quarters)  apartment  speaks 
eloquently  of  someone  who  has  a  rich  and 
varied  life,  who  has  a  feeling  for  a  "home." 
There's  nothing  of  that  slap-dash,  transient 
look  which  marks  the  place  where  a  man 
lives  alone. 

It's  clear  that  Jim  is  one  person  who 
should  have  a  real  home.  And  also  obvious 
why  he  understands  and  can  project 
Mickey's  own  fear  of  losing  the  home  he 
loves,  his  fight  to  protect  it  from  "invasion" 
by  anyone  who  hopes  to  marry  Helen  Em- 
erson. 

That  Jim  has  other  plans  for  his  real- 
life  mother  simply  proves  how  much  he 
sympathizes  with  Mickey's  dilemma — and 
how  deeply  he  himself  believes  in  home 
and  marriage. 


Four  Girls  and  a  Dream 


(Continued  from  page  48) 
left  Arthur,  after  that  much-publicized 
"humility"  tiff,  Bleyer,  who  had  laid  the 
ground-work  for  his  current  Cadence 
Records  Corporation  while  with  the  red- 
head,  immediately  signed   La  Rosa. 

Archie  says:  "I  was  always  stuck  on 
these  kids,  the  Chordettes,  too,  and  was 
convinced  they  could  sing  pop  songs  if 
they'd  only  try.  They  insisted  they  wanted 
to  stick  with  barber-shop  harmony  be- 
cause the  popular  field  was  too  jammed 
with  all-girl  combinations.  I  went  after 
them  as  soon  as  they  left  Godfrey.  You 
can  see  now  just  where  they're  going. 
They're  being  swamped  with  offers  from 
every  big  night  club  and  theatrical  office 
in  the  country.  It's  surely  great  how  just 
one  song  can  do  all  that  for  you." 

The  "Sandman"  was  only  the  second 
popular  record  cut  by  the  Chordettes. 
Their  first,  "It's  You,  It's  You  I  Love"  and 
"True  Love  Goes  On,"  attracted  but  scant 
attention.  "Mr.  Sandman,"  in  addition, 
to  hitting  the  million  mark  in  sales,  held 
its  own  for  a  good  while  as  the  nation's 
number  one  song. 

The  Cinderella  story  of  the  Chordettes 
began  quite  by  accident.  They  were 
formed  as  a  "Sunday  afternoon  hobby," 
out  in  Sheboygan.  The  current  quartet 
contains  only  two  of  the  original  foursome, 
Janet  Ertel  Bleyer — she  married  Archie 
last  November — and  Carol  Bushman.  The 
founder  of  the   group   was   Virginia   Cole, 


and  the  other  Chordette  was  Dorothy 
Schwartz.  The  visits  of  Sir  Stork  put  Vir- 
ginia and  Dottie  out  of  the  act  and 
brought  in  Lynn  Evans  and  Margie  Need- 
ham  as  substitutes. 

At  this  point,  let's  turn  the  mike  over 
to  Janet,  the  oldest  of  the  four — only 
Margie,  the  "baby"  of  the  group  would  ad- 
mit her  age  (21) — for  the  background  of 
the   happy   little   harmonizers. 

"Virginia  Cole's  dad,  O.  H.  'King'  Cole, 
was  the  president  of  the  National  Organi- 
zation for  the  Encouragement  and  Preser- 
vation of  Barber  Shop  Singing  of  America," 
Janet  explains,  "and  Ginny  naturally 
heard  plenty  of  same,  and  joined  in  with 
her  dad  and  his  friends  at  home  and  at 
parties  at  which  the  local  Sheboygan  Bar- 
ber Shoppers  appeared.  She  was  actually 
raised    on    barber-shop   harmony. 

"Things  were  usually  dull  around  town 
on  Sunday  afternoons,  so  Virginia  decided 
to  call  a  couple  of  us  kids  together  and 
form  our  own  quartet.  That's  all  there 
was  to  it.  Carol,  Dottie  Schwartz  and  I 
would  drop  over  to  the  Cole  household 
every  Sunday  and  bone  up  on  new  ar- 
rangements of  all  the  old-timers. 

"There  were  all-girl  groups  in  the  pro- 
cess of  organizing  all  over  the  country 
and,  when  'King'  Cole  decided  we  were 
ready,  he  spotted  us  on  a  Saturday-night 
'Parade  of  Barber  Shop  Quartets'  show  in 
which  many  groups  from  neighboring  cities 
and  villages  took  part. 


"That  was  our  start.  We  went  over  big 
and,  from  then  on,  we  were  in  constant 
demand  for  private  parties,  club  affairs, 
benefits  and  what  not.  We  did  it  just  for 
'kicks,'  but  the  word  spread  and  soon  we 
were  accepting  invitations  to  guest  on 
other  'barber  shop'  shows  in  other  cities. 

"In  January  of  1947,  we  came  East  to 
do  a  show  in  Jersey  City  and,  when  it  was 
over,  we  came  to  New  York  and  visited 
the  Fred  Waring  show.  He  had  heard  of 
us  and  asked  us  to  do  a  number  for  him 
on  his  morning  radio  show.  It  was  the 
biggest  thrill  of  our  lives.  We  did  'I'd 
Love  to  Live  in  Loveland  with  a  Girl 
Like  You.'  Fred  was  very  pleased  and 
told  us  to  keep  at  it,  for  he  thought  we 
had  what  it  took  to  make  good  profes- 
sionally. He  promised  to  look  us  up  when 
he  came  to  Sheboygan  later  in  the  year. 
He  did,  and  we  appeared  with  him  before 
our  home  folks.  If  that  didn't  cause  quite 
a  ruffle  of  excitement  in  dear  old  She- 
boygan!" 

The  girls  did  considerable  banquet  work 
for  General  Motors  Corporation,  and  it 
was  an  executive  of  that  organization, 
Wendell  Anderson,  who  inadvertently 
started  them  on  the  way  to  their  big 
break.  Mr.  Anderson  retained  the  girls  to 
entertain  at  his  niece's  wedding  party  at 
Watch  Hill,  Rhode  Island.  While  there, 
an  advertising  executive  from  the  Ruth- 
rauf  and  Ryan  Agency  of  New  York  heard 
them    and    urged    them    to    try    for    the 


Arthur    Godfrey    Talent   Scouts   program. 

"We  didn't  feel  good  enough,"  Janet  con- 
tinues, "and  it  took  a  lot  of  persuading, 
particularly  by  Ted  Rau,  a  member  of  the 
Hasbrouck  Heights,  New  Jersey,  Barber 
Shop  Quartet — which  won  the  Interna- 
tional Championship  in  '46 — to  make  us 
apply. 

"We  appeared  on  the  Godfrey  show, 
September  26,  1949,  did  'Balling  the  Jack' 
and  won.  Arthur  signed  us  for  his  regular 
show  the  very  next  day  and  we  were  with 
him — and  very  successful,  too — until  we 
decided  to  go  out  on  our  own  in  March 
of  '53." 

That  winter  of  1952-53  proved  to  be 
quite  a  hectic  season.  For  one  thing,  a 
change  in  personnel  had  become  vital  when 
Dorothy  Schwartz  announced  she  was  go- 
ing to  have  a  baby.  The  hunt  began  for 
a  replacement. 

After  listening  carefully  to  all  the  var- 
ious quartets  they  met  on  their  inter-city 
visits,  the  group  wound  up  one  night  on 
a  courtesy  call  in  Youngstown,  Ohio. 
"Lynn  Evans  was  on  the  local  reception 
committee,"  Janet  recalls,  "and  at  each 
town  you  visit  there  is  what  is  known  as 
a  hospitality  room  in  the  hotel. 

"Lynn  asked  if  she  could  do  a  number 
with  us  and,  as  Dottie  was  pretty  tired, 
Lynn  filled  in  her  place.  The  girls  sang 
a  couple  of  numbers  and  we  knew  we  had 
found  our  replacement  for  Dottie. 

"Lynn  had  a  little  boy — now  five  years 
old — and  it  took  some  tall  talking  to  con- 
vince her  we  really  wanted  her  to  join 
us.  Her  husband,  Bob,  told  her  to  go 
right  ahead,  that  it  might  be  her  big 
chance.  She  came  back  to  New  York  with 
us  and  has  been  our  'lead'  ever  since.  This 
was  in  November  of  1952. 

"In  July  of  the  following  year,  it  was 
Virginia's  time  to  call  off  barber-shop  sing- 
ing in  favor  of  lullabies,  and  we  picked  up 
Margie  in  Berwyn,  Illinois,  a  suburb  of 
Chicago." 

Incidentally,  it  should  be  pointed  out  at 
this  time  that,  while  all  the  girls  are  pep- 
py and  individually  attractive,  Margie  is 
the  beauty  of  the  foursome.  She  won  the 
"Miss  Community  Chest"  title  of  Ber- 
wyn in  1947  and  was  Miss  Berwyn-Cicero 
of  1951. 

Margie  had  done  considerable  barber- 
shop singing  as  a  hobby.  She  was  flying 
as  a  stewardess  with  United  Air  Lines  at 
the  time  the  Chordettes  found  her,  and 
her  brunette  beauty  and  pleasing  "tenor" 
voice  proved  just  what  the  girls  were  look- 
ing for  in  a  substitute  Chordette.  So 
Margie  quit  the  airlines  for  the  airwaves 
and  has  never  regretted  the  choice.  Be- 
sides, she  met  Walter  Latzko,  the  Chord- 
ettes' musical  arranger,  and  married  him 
last  year. 

Though  they  seldom  give  it  a  thought, 
Janet  says  she  guesses  you'd  call  Lynn  the 
"lead,"  Margie  the  "tenor,"  Carol  the  "bari- 
tone," and  herself  the  "bass"  in  the  harmony 
team.  In  line  with  these  masculine-sound- 
ing titles,  the  girls  are  all  tall,  somewhat 
above  average  feminine  height. 

Carol,  five-feet,  nine  and  a  half  inches, 
and  with  dark  hair  and  big  brown  eyes,  is 
the  comedienne  of  the  group.  She  plays 
a  "Dumb  Dora"  type  on  the  Robert  Q. 
Lewis  show,  reading  letters  from  an 
equally  nit-witted  sister  back  in  "Snal- 
flax,"  Ohio. 

"I'll  give  you  a  sample,"  she  says.  "For 
example,  sister  might  write:  'Uncle  Homer 
ran  for  mayor  here  and  he  won.  He  got 
34  votes.  This  surprised  a  lot  of  people 
because  Snalflax  only  has  27  people.'  You 
know,   real  yak-yak  stuff,"   Carol   laughs. 

Lynn,  at  five-feet,  eight  inches,  is  fair. 
Margie,  the  "baby,"  is  five  feet,  seven,  with 
jet-black  hair,  bright  blue  eyes  and  a 
very    fetching   figure.     Janet,    who    looks 


JUST  OUT!  THE  MOST  EXCITING 
EVENT  OF  THE  YEAR! 


The  gorgeous  new  TV-Radio  Annual  is  now 
available  to  you.  This  exciting  1955  yearbook 
is  better  than  ever!  It  covers  all  the  Television 
and  Radio  events  of  the  year.  You'll  enjoy  the 
hundreds  of  new  illustrations  and  you'll  be 
simply  thrilled  to  read  the  behind-the-scenes 
stories  of  all  your  favorite  stars.  Below  is  a 
brief  description  of  this  really  important  An- 
nual: 

NEWS  EVENTS  OF  THE  YEAR— The  behind-the- 
scenes  stories  of  Eve  Arden  and  Brooks  West 

•  Anne  Jeffreys  and  Robert  Sterling  •  Flor- 
ence Halop  •  Bob  Smith  •  Paul  Dixon  •  Steve 
Allen  and  Jayne  Meadows  •  Wally  Cox  •  Jack 
Webb  •  Milton  Berle. 

NEW  SHOWS  OF  THE  YEAR— Stars  new  and  old, 
who  helped  make  recent  history.  Robert  Q. 
Lewis  •  Sid  Caesar  •  Imogene  Coca  •  Florian 
ZaBach  •  Edgar  Bergen  •  George  Gobel  • 
Jack  Paar  •   Betty  White  •  Michael  O'Shea 

•  James  Dunn  •  William  Bishop  •  Eddie 
Mayehoff  •  Gil  Stratton,  Jr. 

WHO?S  WHO  ON— Breakfast  Club  •  Father 
Knows  Best  •  Beat  The  Clock  •  Two  For  The 
Money  •  The  Garry  Moore  Show  •  Your  Hit 
Parade  •  The  Halls  Of  Ivy  •  Our  Miss  Brooks 

•  Masquerade  Party  •  My  Favorite  Husband  • 
Fibber  McGee  And  Molly  •  Lassie  •  The  Big 
Payoff  •  The  Jackie  Gleason  Show. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES— Arthur  Godfrey  •  Ozzie 
and  Harriet  Nelson  •  Ralph  Edwards  •  Bert 
Parks  •  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  •  Warren  Hull 


•  Bill  Cullen  •  Roy  Rogers  •  Gene  Autry  • 
Red  Buttons  •  Jack  Bailey  •  Jack  Barry  •  Ed 
Sullivan  •  Art  Linkletter  •  Donald  O'Connor 

•  Jimmy  Durante  •  Tom  Moore. 

GORGEOUS  NEW  COLOR  PORTRAITS  OF  THE  STARS— 

Thrilling  4-color  photographs  of  Liberace  • 
Lucille  Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz  •  Eddie  Fisher 

•  Gale  Storm.  These  full  page  true-to-life  por- 
traits are  so  unusual  that  you  will  want  to 
frame  each  one  of  them! 

PLUS — Pictures  and  biographies  from  the  most 
beloved   daytime   dramas   on    radio   and   TV. 

ONLY   50c— WHILE  THEY   LAST 

This  terrific  Annual  is  a  sell-out  each  year.  No 
wonder — everybody  wants  a  copy  and  only  a 
limited  number  are  printed.  Only  50c  at  your 
favorite  magazine  counter.  Or,  if  more  con- 
venient, mail  coupon   with  50<£  TODAY. 

,.--  MAIL  COUPON  TODAY  ---, 

TV-RADIO   MIRROR  WG-455 

205  E.  42nd  St.,   New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  TV-RADIO 
ANNUAL  1955.  I  enclose  50c. 


Please  Print 


Name 

Address 

City State. 


85 


What  P"01  ^ 
relief!  fe  W  j 


Take 


Alka- 

Seltzer 

BRAND  f0f 

ACID  INDIGESTION 

Enjoy  triple-comfort  relief! 
ALKA-SELTZER  reduces  excess 
stomach  acidity  with  Instant  Alka- 
lizing Action . .  .soothes  your  stomach 
. . .  quickly  relieves  that 
"stuffy"  feeling! 


AT  ALL 
DRUG  COUNTERS 


MILES  LABORATORIES,  INC.,  ELKHART,  IND. 


If  you  need  more  money... 

Up  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous   Hollywood   Cos- 
metics, your  neighborhood. 
Samples    and    details 
supplied.  Write  to: 
Guaranteed  by  *<\     HARRY  TAYLOR,  Pros. 

Housekeeping  I         s,udl°  Glrl— 

r    y     Hollywood  Cosmetics 

Glendale,  Calif.,  DepLTS-45 


W0«5S 


ANY  PHOTO  ENGRAVED 


16    guage,    rustproof,    lifetime    metal, 
etching,    suitable    to    place    on    desk, 
mantle,  etc.     No  frame  or  cover 
glass     necessary.       State     size — 
2x3— $3.00         5x  7— $5.00 
4x5 —  4.00  8x10—  7.00 

Hardwood  base  included.  Photo 
outlined  to  achieve  stereo  affect 
$1.50  extra.  Cash  or  M.  O. — we 
pay  postage — sorry  no  C.  O.  D. 
ARDEN    ENGRAVINGS 

Erie,  Pa. 


Box   1925 


(Send  IMioto  Only,  No  Negatives. 


86 


WASH 

HAIR  SHADES 

LIGHTER-SAFELY 

Bring  Out  Shining  Radiant  Color! 

Mode  specially  for  blondes,  this  new  ll-minute  home  shampoo 
helps  keep  light  hair  from  darkening  — brightens  faded  hair. 
Called  Blondex,  it  quickly  makes  a  rich  cleansing  lather. 
Instantly  removes  the  dingy  dust  laden  film  that  mokes  blonde 
hair  dark,  old-looking.  Blondex  alone  contains  miracle 
ANDIUM,  to  shine  and  lighten  as  it  shampoos.  Gives  hair 
attractive  lustre  and  highlights.  Gentle  and  safe  for  children's 
hair.  Get  BIONDEX  todayl  At  \W,  drug  and  dept.  stores. 


taller,  is  five-feet  six,  and  acts  more  or  less 
as  the  business  manager  and  spokeswoman 
for  the  group. 

The  girls  really  started  on  their  way, 
however,  when  Archie  Bleyer — his  record 
company  now  on  solid  footing — signed  them 
in  January  of  1954.  "Archie  always  in- 
sisted that  we  do  popular  numbers,"  says 
Janet,  "but  the  girls,  myself  included,  were 
agreed  that  'barber  shop'  was  more  to  our 
liking — and  there  were  too  many  girl 
combinations. 

"He  kept  pestering  us  to  try  a  couple 
of  new  songs,  and  pointed  out  that  even 
the  fans  had  agreed  it  was  impossible  to 
reach  a  mass  audience  with  barber-shop 
a  capella  harmony  (without  musical  ac- 
companiment) . 

"We  had  been  signed  to  do  the  Robert 
Q.  Lewis  radio  show  late  in  '52,  after  a 
sponsor  had  heard  us  down  in  Jackson, 
Mississippi,  but  had  been  featuring  ninety 
percent  old-time  numbers,  with  only  an 
occasional  popular  song  thrown  in  for 
variety. 

"We  decided  to  take  a  chance.  After 
all,  what  did  we  have  to  lose?  Thank 
heavens,  we  took  the  gamble!  As  I  said, 
our  first  two  sides  didn't  attract  very  much 
attention.  Then  Archie  heard  'Mr.  Sand- 
man' and  decided  to  dress  it  up  a  bit — 
and,  well,  the  rest  you  know. 

"Vaughn  Monroe  had  also  made  a  re- 
cording of  the  number,  and  we  were  quite 
understandably  swept  off  our  feet  when 
word  reached  us  in  Las  Vegas,  last  Sep- 
tember, that  our  record  had  virtually  ex- 
ploded on  the  industry  and  that  disc  jock- 
eys all  over  the  country  were  wiring  for 
our  pictures  and  background  material. 

"It  was  like  a  dream  come  true.  Not 
quite  the  dream  we  had  asked  'Mr.  Sand- 
man' to  bring  us — but  a  mighty  happy  sub- 
stitute just  the  same." 

The  "Sandman"  also  proved  a  godfather 
of  sorts  for  Pat  Ballard,  who  wrote  it. 
Ballard,  a  veteran  songwriter,  had  not 
had  a  solid  "hit,"  except  for  "I  Get  So 
Lonely,"  in  almost  twenty  years — since 
his  "So  Beats  My  Heart  for  You"  clicked 
almost  two  decades  ago.  All  in  all,  the 
months  of  August  and  September,  1954, 
won't  be  soon  forgotten  by  Messrs.  Bleyer 
and  Ballard  and  the  four  young  ladies 
from  Sheboygan,  Wisconsin,  and  points 
west. 

The  Chordettes  are  managed  by  Jack 
Bertell.  They  decided  to  have  Bertell 
handle  them,  rather  than  a  larger  outfit 
where  they  might  have  gotten  lost  in  the 
shuffle.  It  proved  a  happy  choice.  They 
like  to  work  with  Bertell,  who  has  been 
around  a  long  time  and  who  knows  he's 
working  with  a  friendly  and  grateful  group 
of  girls  who  won't  let  success  turn  their 
pretty  little  heads. 

The  Chordettes'  fan  mail  has  tripled  in 
the  past  few  months  and  fan  clubs  have 
sprung  up  in  New  York,  Chicago,  Mil- 
waukee, Dallas,  Los  Angeles,  San  Fran- 
cisco and  virtually  every  other  major  city 


in  the  country.  Their  favorite  fan  letter, 
however,    is   the    one   from   Bing    Crosby! 

"Bing  heard  us  do  'Alice  Blue  Gown'  on 
a  Godfrey  show,"  Janet  recalls.  "He 
heard  it  while  vacationing  at  his  ranch  in 
Elko,  Nevada,  and  wrote  how  much  he  en- 
joyed it.  He  said  he  knew  the  value  and 
importance  of  a  'boost'  on  a  job  well  done 
and  wanted  us  to  know  how  much  he  en- 
joyed us.  He  urged  us  to  keep  up  the  good 
work  and  said  we  couldn't  miss. 

"We  were  never  so  thrilled  at  anything 
in  our  lives!  It  just  shows  you  what  nice 
people  there  are  in  this  business,  and  you 
can  bet  we  wrote  him  right  back,  thank- 
ing him  and  telling  him  how  happy  he 
had  made   us." 

"That's  true  of  most  big  people,"  Carol 
chimes  in.  "Why,  the  other  night  I  had 
dinner  at  Guy  Lombardo's  beautiful  res- 
taurant in  Freeport,  Long  Island.  Guy 
came  over  and  paid  us  all  a  wonderful 
compliment.  He  said  he  thought  'Mr. 
Sandman'  was  the  greatest  recording  he'd 
heard  in  the  last  ten  years!" 

"Speaking  of  mail,"  puts  in  Margie, 
"why  don't  you  tell  about  all  the  mail 
we've  received  about  the  'mystery  voice' 
and  the  'knee  business'  on  'Mr.  Sand- 
man'?" 

Janet  hastens  to  explain:  "You  hear  the 
patter  of  tapping  on  the  knees  with  open 
palms  at  the  opening  of  the  record,"  she 
explains,  "and  then,  later  on,  in  the  sec- 
ond chorus,  there  is  a  male  voice  who 
answers  'Yes'  when  we  croon  'Mr.  Sand- 
man.' These  two  bits  had  listeners  mysti- 
fied, and  I'll  bet  we've  received  almost  a 
thousand  inquiries  asking  who  the  'mys- 
tery voice'  is. 

"I  won't  keep  you  in  suspense.  It's 
Archie  Bleyer." 

The  future?  The  girls  are  a  little  too 
breathless,  after  all  that's  happened  so 
quickly,  to  know  for  sure  just  what  they'll 
do  this  year.  One  thing  they  will  do — 
definitely — is  to  continue  to  search  for 
"pop"  songs  which  fit  their  style.  They 
will  not  desert  "barber  shop"  by  any  means 
and  have  recently  completed  another  al- 
bum of  old-timers,  along  with  a  music 
book  of  their  individual  arrangements  for 
study  and  use  by  embryo  all-girl  quar- 
tets— in  high  schools  and  colleges — who 
might  like  to  follow  in  their  footsteps. 

Their  income  has  doubled,  of  course,  in 
the  past  six  months  and  their  night-club 
and  theatrical  dates  are  being  carefully 
spotted  by  manager  Jack  Bertell.  It  looks 
like  a  golden  year  for  the  Cadence  Record 
Corporation  and  all  concerned. 

A  happy  year  because  of  one  happy  lit- 
tle song.  The  "Sandman"  acted  in  reverse 
when  he  awakened  the  entire  entertain- 
ment world  to  the  real  talents  of  these 
four  fine  girls. 

And  if  all  this  is  the  "dream"  they  asked 
him  to  send  them — the  Chordettes  hope  the 
"Sandman"  never  wakes  them  up. 

They  like  it  very  much  indeed  in  dream- 
land. 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR  Awards  for  1954-1955 

The  results  of  our  eighth  annual   poll   of  the   nation's   listeners  and  viewers. 

Read  all  about  your  favorite  radio  and  television  stars  and  shows 

in  the  spectacular  May  issue  of 

TV   RADIO  MIRROR 
at  your  newsstand  April  7 


Professional  Father 

(Continued  from  page  57) 
task — joining  the  loud  cry  of  anguish  from 
the  downstairs  television  set  which,  backed 
in  a  corner,  sang  its  loud  lament  to  the 
mob  of  children  now  in  the  room  trying 
to  stare  it  down. 

To  protect  his  ears,  Steve  shut  the  door 
to  the  upstairs  den.  But  he  didn't  com- 
plain about  the  noise — that  was  the  way 
he  and  his  wife,  Nin,  wanted  and  planned 
it.  They  wanted  their  children  to  en- 
tertain their  friends  at  home.  It  was  one 
of  the  most  important  things,  they  thought, 
that  made  them  a  family. 

Steve  says,  "I  come  from  a  large  family. 
But,  much  to  my  father's  chagrin,  none  of 
us  kids  stayed  in  the  house.  Now  that 
I  recall  it,  it  was  a  strange  situation — 
though  there  were  enough  for  a  football 
team  in  our  family,  none  of  us  was  ever 
at  home. 

"I  remember  promising  myself  then  that, 
if  I  possibly  could  avoid  it,  I  would  never 
let  that  happen  in  my  house.  So  I  made 
a  county  club  out  of  this  place:  My  broth- 
er and  I  put  in  a  pool.  We  have  TV  sets 
upstairs  and  down — one  for  the  kids. 
And,  if  you  don't  hear  that  front  door  slam 
50,000  times  a  day,  you  know  someone  is 
sick. 

"In  fact,  the  parking  problem  has  be- 
come acute.  Last  week,  there  were  twen- 
ty-five bicycles  in  the  front  yard.  My 
agent,  Bob  Longenecker,  came  to  call— 
couldn't  reach  the  bell.  Had  to  walk 
around  back;  came  in  through  the  kitchen. 
He  rang  the  back  doorbell,  too,  but  there 
was  so  much  noise  no  one  heard  it." 

Steve  is  well  qualified  to  play  the  role 
of  Dr.  Thomas  Wilson,  M.D.,  child  psychol- 
ogist, on  his  new  show,  Professional 
Father.  In  addition  to  his  own  family  at 
home — which  so  much  mirrors  his  two 
show  children,  Twig  and  Kit— he  also 
spent  his  first  college  years  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Alabama's  Psychology  Depart- 
ment. 

"It  happened  this  way,"  says  Steve.  "A 
kindly  Bostonian,  Dr.  Ronald  Ramsdell, 
took  pity  on  me  because  I  didn't  have  any 
money — though  I  did  know  how  to  type. 
It  just  so  happened  that  he  was  head  of 
the  Psychology  Department  and,  needing 
a  secretary-assistant,  he  gave  me  a 
scholarship  to  the  university  with  a  minor 
in  his  department. 

"At  that  time,"  says  Steve,"  I  needed  the 
Psychology  Department — because,  until 
then,  I  didn't  know  what  I  wanted  in  life. 
Believe  me,  the  psychologists  are  the  ones 
who  can  put  you  on  the  right  path.  Be- 
fore I  went  to  the  university,  I  had  been 
in  secretarial  work,  but  got  fired.  Then  I 
did  more  secretarial  work  in  the  Depart- 
ment of  Entomology — with  the  U.S.  Gov- 
ernment, but  I  didn't  know  beans  about 
bugs.  No,  they  didn't  fire  me — I  quit. 
That's  when  I  decided  to  go  to  school. 

"At  this  point,"  says  Steve,  "I  took  a 
radio  course — and  it  changed  my  whole 
life.  One  day,  the  owner  of  the  local 
radio  station,  WJID,  in  Tuscaloosa,  came 
up  to  me  and  said,  'You  have  a  nice  voice. 
How  would  you  like  to  come  to  work  for 
me  for  five  dollars  a  week?'  I  took  the 
job.  It  turned  into  a  gold  mine:  I  later 
got  five  dollars  plus  meals — and,  some 
time  after  that,  all  the  clothes  I  could  wear 
at  one  time. 

"Having  been  exposed  to  radio,  I  was 
fascinated  with  it.  As  a  result,  psychology 
fell  further  into  the  background.  But  I 
never  regret  the  training  I  received  in  Dr. 
Ramsdell's  classes.  Psychology  is  basic 
logic  and  common  sense — and  that's  the 
sort  of  thing  a  family  runs  on." 

Where  and  when  did  Steve's  family  life 
begin?  In  reality,  in  his  own  back  yard — 


WW  ITS  Ff/JV 
TO  REDUCE 


This  Common  Sense  Waj 


Partial  Contents— New  Edition 

Too  Much  Hips  •  Reducing  Abdomen  • 
Reducing  the  Breasts  •  Firming  the 
Breasts  •  Fat  Pudgy  Arms  •  Slenderizing 
the  Legs  and  Ankles  •  Correcting  Bow- 
legs •  Slimming  the  Thighs  •  Reducing 
Fat  on  the  Back  •  Develop  Your  Legs  • 
Drooping  Shoulders  •  Keep  That  Perfect 
Figure  •  Off  with  that  Double  Chin!  • 
Enlarging  a  Receding  Chin  •  Slenderizing 
the  Face  and  Jowls  •  Refining  Your  Nose 
•  Skin  Beauty  Diet  and  Energy  Diet  • 
Advice  for  the  Adolescent  •  The  Woman 
Past  Forty  •  The  Personality  Figure  • 
Glamour  is  Glandular  •  This  Thing 
Called  Love. 


There  is  no  magic  about  The  Com- 
mon Sense  Way  to  a  beautiful  figure. 
But  if  you  follow  the  suggestions 
Sylvia  of  Hollywood  has  for  you  in 
her  book  No  More  Alibis  you  may, 
perhaps,  challenge  the  beauty  of  the 
loveliest  movie  star! 

Sylvia  of  Hollywood 
Names    Names 

In  No  More  Alibis  the  author  tells 
you  how  she  helped  many  of  Holly- 
wood's brightest  stars  with  their  fig- 
ure problems.  She  names  names — 
tells  you  how  she  developed  this 
star's  legs — how  she  reduced  that 
star's  waistline — how  she  helped 
another  star  to  achieve  a  beautiful 
youthful   figure. 

Glance  at  the  table  of  contents 
listed  on  this  page.  Notice  how  Syl- 
via covers  the  problems  that  are  of 
utmost   importance   to  your  beauty. 


Only  $1.00 

This  beautiful  edition  of  Sylvia's 
famous  book,  No  More  Alibis  is  now 
ready  for  you.  This  edition  contains 
all  the  text  matter  of  the  original 
book,  plus  the  greatest  part  of  her 
splendid  book  on  personality  devel- 
opment entitled  Pull  Yourself  To- 
gether, Baby.  Now  get  Sylvia's  se- 
crets of  charm  as  well  as  beauty! 
The  price  of  this  big  beautiful  il- 
lustrated edition  is  only  $1  postpaid. 
Get  your  copy — at  once. 


MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY! 

Bartholomew  House,  Inc.,  Dept.  RM-455 

205  E.  42nd  Street,  New  York   17,   N.   Y. 

Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  Sylvia  of  Hollywood's  NO 
MORE  ALIBIS!  COMBINED  WITH  PULL  YOURSELF 
TOGETHER.  BABY!  I  enclose  SI. 00. 


Name.  . . 
Address. 
City 


Please  Print 


State. 


87 


88 


Gehtle 

Ex-Lax  Helps 

YOU  TOWARD 

Ybur  Normal 
Regularity 


TONIGHT -When  you 
need  a  laxative— take 
chocolated  Ex-Lax, 
America's  best -tasting 
laxative.  It  won't 
disturb  your  sleep. 

IN  THE  MORNING- 

You'll  enjoy  the  closest 
thing  to  natural  action. 
No  discomfort  or  upset. 
You'll  soon  feel  like 
yourself  again! 


NEXT  DAY  — EX-LAX  continues  to  help  you  to- 
ward your  normal  regularity.  You  hardly  ever 
have  to  take  £x-LAX  again  the  next  night ! 

Buy  The  New  65  s  Size  — Save  As  Much  As  37# 
Also  available  in  304  and  124  sizes 

EX- LAX 

THE  CHOCOLATED  LAXATIVE 


MORE  PEOPLE  USE  EX-LAX  THAN  ANY  OTHER  LAXATIVE 


TOKEN   PHOTOS 


Luxurious,  saf/n  finish  Wallet 
Size . . .  2'/4  x3'/4 . . .  STUDIO  Quality 
$«■    MONEY  BACK 
for      |      GUARANTEE 

GIVE  TO  FRIENDS,  CLASSMATES,  RELATIVES.    USE 
FOR  COLLEGE,   EMPLOYMENT,  PASSPORT  APPLI- 
CATIONS. SEND  MONEY  AND  PHOTO  TO 
WALLET  PHOTOS,  BOX   Dl  7-45         HILLSIDE,  N.  JN 


STOP  Radio  and  TV  Noises 

.mpVXd  filter  plug 

BALANCED     CIRCUIT     eliminates    power 

line  interference  from  household  appliances, 

fluorescent  lights,  motors,  oil  burners,  autos, 

etc.   Simple  to  use.  Don't  despair  if  you've       ONLY 

tried    other    filters    without    success.    THIS 

ONE   WOKKS.    5   day   trial   period.    Money 

hack  guarantee. 

No  C.O.D,  please. 

SCOPE   MFG.  CO..   Dept.  TV-1 

Box  23.   128  E.   Broadway.   N.  Y.  C.   2.   N.   Y. 


$|5 


"I    Got   Rid   of   Those   Horrid 

Pimples  Easily — yes.  Easily" 

and  So  Can  YOU 

Don't  let  disfiguring  pimples  or  Acne  pustules 
embarrass  you.  IT'S  SO  KASY,  ordinarily,  to  get 
rid    of    tliis    disgusting    facial    trouble,    QUICKLY  I 

A  disfigured  face  is  INEXCUSABLE  when,  BY. 
USING  ACNA-TONE,  the  wonder  working  medi- 
cated cream,  A  FKW  TIMES  you  get  the  thrill  of 
having  a  CLEAB,  HA  1)1  ANT  COMPLEXION,  The 
need  with  which  it  works  will  "take  your  breath 
away." 

Ami. i  Tone  dries  up  the  oil  that  Acne  pimples 
thrive  on.  One  application  DAILY  for  a  SHOUT 
TIME  i  usually  sufficient.  It  Is  QBEA8ELE88 
md  i  LESH-TINTED  to  hide  pimples  and  bleml  he 
WHILE  IT  WORKS. 

We    01  ARANTEE    Acna-Tone.    If,    after    using 

Acna   i a     dlrocted,  a  reasonable  time  you  are 

nol  atl  Bed  with  result!,  you  can  have  your  MONEY 
BACK  nod  KEEP  the  rest  of  the  Acne  Tone,  Isn't 
thai  b  fail  deal  I 

Von  |i  size  jar  for  $2,110.    Don't  wait. 

Bend  righl  now,  (ash,  check  or  money  order 

Nelson   Laboratories,   Inc. 

233  Joseph  Ave.,  Box  B-46,  Rochester  5,  N.  Y. 


or  nearly  so — in  North  Hampton,  Massa- 
chusetts. Steve  married  his  childhood 
sweetheart,  Vivian  Belliveau.  Steve  and 
Vivian  met  at  a  dance.  "A  friend  of  mine," 
he  recalls,  "loved  to  dance,  and  hauled  me 
off  to  the  Mount  Park  dance  hall  in  Hol- 
yoke.  Vivian  felt  sorry  for  me — I  was  the 
smart  guy  who  never  learned  to  dance 
as  a  kid — sissy  stuff,  you  know.  So  'Nin' 
came  over  and  we  talked  through  every- 
thing from  'Begin  the  Beguine'  to  'Smoke 
Gets  in  Your  Eyes.' 

"We  saw  one  another  again  when  I  came 
home  from  college  during  the  Christmas 
holidays,  and  two  years  later  we  were 
married.  It  happened  this  way:  In  my 
third  year  in  school,  the  radio  job  had 
grown  to  a  staff  announcer's  job  in  Wor- 
cester, Mass.  That  was  near  home;  I 
had  a  chance  to  budget  my  money — and 
we  were  married. 

"I  like  to  say  I  married  'the  girl  with 
the  money'!  "We'd  saved  for  a  nice  wed- 
ding, but  there  was  nothing  left  over  for 
a  honeymoon.  That's  when  I  learned 
never  to  underestimate  the  powers  of  a 
woman:  Two  days  before  our  wedding, 
Nin  and  I  went  to  a  church  bazaar.  The 
major  prize  was  one  thousand  dollars — and 
Nin  held  the  lucky  number." 

After  the  wedding,  Steve  and  Vivian 
moved  to  New  York,  where  he  worked  as 
a  staff  announcer  on  Station  WOR.  "I 
was  an  expectant  father,"  he  says,  "work- 
ing half-day — you  know,  twelve  hours — 
and  sometimes  more. 

"Steve,  Jr.,  arrived  in  the  Jamaica  Hos- 
pital in  Long  Island.  I  was  a  natural-born 
floor  pacer.  Nin  had  brought  along  two 
of  her  close  friends — not  so  much  to  re- 
assure herself,  I  think,  as  to  keep  me 
calmed  down.  The  two  girls  made  tea  and 
poured  it  down  me  like  I  was  a  professional 
taster.  I  was  never  so  glad  to  see  a  baby 
born  in  all  my  life:  One  more  cup  of  tea, 
and  Manhattan  tea  drinkers  would  have 
had  to  be  rationed." 

As  Steve  says,  after  the  baby  was 
born,  he  began  working  full  time — "that  is, 
twenty-four  hours  a  day."  At  least,  it 
seemed  that  way  to  him.  He  still  held  the 
staff  announcer's  job  and,  in  addition,  he 
was  working  on  a  number  of  dramatic 
radio  shows.  As  a  result  of  all  his  work, 
Steve  began  receiving  bids  from  major  mo- 
tion picture  studios.  When  Steve,  Jr.,  was 
two  years  old,  the  Dunnes  moved  to  Hol- 
lywood, where  Steve  began  work  on  the 
first  of  his  fourteen  films  for  Twentieth 
Century-Fox  and  other  major  studios. 

When  the  Dunnes  moved  to  California, 
they  needed  a  "family"  house:  A  new  baby 


was  soon  to  join  them.  "The  house  we 
have,"  says  Steve,  "is  what  I  call  'assembled 
American.'  It  has  everything  in  it  to  make 
a  home  livable,  but  is  extremely  unpre- 
tentious. It  is  just  a  plain-looking  house, 
nothing  fancy. 

"Nin  and  I  have  devoted  a  lot  of  loving 
hours  to  it.  My  brother  helped,  too.  He 
and  I  built  a  brick  barbecue,  a  brick 
walk,  a  brick  patio.  We  bricked  up  the 
kitchen  wall,  and  whatever  bricks  were 
left  over  went  into  the  den.  In  case  you 
haven't  guessed  it,  we  like  brick. 

"One  of  the  things  a  family  has  is  a 
home — in  fact,  one  of  the  things  a  family 
is  is  a  home.  Whenever  we  added  to  the 
house,  that  was  the  thought  uppermost  in 
our  minds — would  the  addition  help  us  as 
a  family?  I  think  it  has.  We  share  the 
pool;  we  share  the  barbecue;  and  we  live 
in  the  house — we  literally  knock  around 
in  it.  After  all,  there's  not  much  you 
can  do  that'll  hurt  the  bricks." 

Holidays  are  another  of  the  thousand- 
and-one  things  that  make  a  family.  Steve 
well  remembers  the  first  big  holiday — their 
first  Christmas  together  after  Christina 
was  born.  "Christmas  isn't  just  for  kids," 
he  says,  "it  is  kids.  I  remember  the  day 
before  the  holiday,  one  of  the  studios  called 
to  ask,  'What  are  you  doing  Christmas?' 

"I  said,  'What  do  you  mean?  I'm  stay- 
ing home  with  my  family  .  .  .  what  else?' 
They  said,  'Oh  .  .  .  ?'  like  maybe  it  was 
a  crime.  'We  just  thought,'  they  said,  'that 
you  would  be  going  away  some  place  and 
we  wanted  to  know  where  you  would  be 
because  of  the  picture  .  .  .' 

"I  said,  'Well,  we  think  Christmas  is  a 
time  for  children;  we're  staying  home. 
Maybe  that  is  pretty  old-fashioned,  but 
that's  the  way  it  is.' " 

What  are  some  of  the  other  things  that 
make  a  family?  For  one,  Steve  thinks 
it's  the  relationship  between  parents  and 
children.  "The  children  in  any  family," 
he  says,  "are  reflections  of  their  mother 
and  father.  That's  all.  And  you  don't 
need  to  be  a  psychologist  to  know  that. 

"If  there  is  love  at  home  and  there  is  a 
good  example  set  by  the  parents,  the  chil- 
dren are  going  to  turn  out  fine.  If  there 
is  no  love,  if  bad  examples  are  set,  and 
the  children  turn  out  to  be  delinquents, 
then  I  think  the  parents  should  take  the 
blame.  .  .  .  You  can't  blame  the  kids  if 
their  parents  fail  to  give  them  love,  under- 
standing, time,  attention,  and  recognition." 

At  Steve's  house,  for  example,  he  and 
Steve,  Jr.  share  a  great  enthusiasm  for 
sports.  "Stevie,"  he  says,  "can  tell  you 
the  batting  average  of  every  player  in  the 


JEALOUSY  NEARLY  RUINED 
OUR  MARRIAGE! 

How  real-life  people  have  triumphed  over  the  most 
agonizing  emotional  problems  is  dramatized  for 
you  on  radio's  "My  True  Story."  Each  stirring  epi- 
sode is  as  moving  and  human  as  life  itself — because 
it's  taken  right  from  the  files  of  "True   Story 
Magazine."  And   by  showing   how  other   people 
cope  with  the  heart-rending  problems  of  love  and 
jealousy,   hope  and   fear,  this  vivid   radio   pro- 
gram has  helped  countless  listeners  avoid  tragedy 
in   their  own   lives.   So   be   sure  to   listen. 

TUNE  IN 


"MY  TRUE  STORY" 


AMERICAN  BROADCASTING  STATIONS 

Don't  miss  "SHE  STOLE  MY  CHILD" — the  true  crime   of  an   evil    mother-in-law   dramatically 
told  in  April  TRUE  STORY  MAGAZINE  at  newsstands  now. 


major  leagues — for  five  years  back.  I  re- 
member once,  while  on  a  picture  location 
in  Tucson,  I  met  a  ballplayer  from  the 
Cleveland  Indians,  who  were  in  spring 
training  there.  I  asked  him  to  get  the  boys 
on  the  team  to  autograph  one  of  their  bats 
for  me,  and  brought  the  bat  home  to  Stevie. 
He  waxed  it,  varnished  it,  then  took  it 
upstairs  and  hung  it  on  the  wall.  He 
later  charged  everyone  in  his  gang  a  nickel 
apiece  for  a  peek  at  it. 

"The  same  thing  happened  with  the 
football  I  brought  him  from  our  local 
Rams  pro  football  team.  I  asked  their 
coach,  Hamp  Poole,  to  get  me  an  auto- 
graphed ball.  He  did,  and  I  gave  it  to 
Stevie  for  a  present.  But,  much  as  he  loves 
to  play  football  and  baseball,  and  much  as 
kids  love  to  use  professional  equipment, 
he  never,  but  never  would  think  of  using 
either  the  bat  or  the  ball  in  one  of  his 
games!  No,  sir;  they  are  hanging  in  my 
son's  Hall  of  Fame — on  the  wall  of  his  up- 
stairs bedroom." 

Steve,  the  man,  and  Steve,  the  boy,  share 
many  happy  hours  at  the  ball  games — 
that's  one  of  the  things  that  make  a  family. 
But  Steve  the  father  doesn't  devote  all 
his  free  time  to  his  son.  No,  indeed.  He 
and  daughter  Chris  go  window  shopping. 
In  fact,  they  even  go  down  to  Bullock's 
Westwood  together  to  watch  the  models 
parade.  After  all,  those  are  women's  in- 
terests, you  know,  and  sharing  those  ex- 
periences is  what  makes  a  family,  too.  "And 
after  watching  the  models,"  says  Steve, 
"we  sneak  downstairs  to  buy  a  little  some- 
thing. I'm  getting  very  good  at  picking 
out  young  'high-fashion'  clothes.  I've 
enough  experience  to  be  a  professional 
buyer. 

"Then  we  lunch  together,  just  my  daugh- 
ter and  I.  After  lunch  we  do  more  shop- 
ping, and  then  we  go  upstairs  for  a  malt  or 
soda.  The  girl's  growing,  you  know.  I 
would  be,  too,  if  it  weren't  for  Stevie's 
Little  League  baseball  games.  There,  I 
get  my  chance  to  work  off  the  malts  and 
lunches  my  daughter  lives  on." 

Another  of  the  one-thousand-and-one 
things  that  make  the  Dunne  family  is  the 
singing  they  do  together.  In  fact,  they 
are  a  great  "together"  family.  Chris  plays 
the  piano,  Steve,  Jr.  plays  the  guitar  his 
mother  and  father  gave  him.  for  Christmas, 
and  the  four  of  them  sing  and  play  quar- 
tets. 

"Music,"  says  Steve,  "is  the  background 
noise  in  this  family.  If  it  isn't  the  hi-fi 
set,  it's  the  radio  or  the  TV,  or  Chris  on 
the  piano  and  Stevie  on  the  guitar.  But,  as 
I  said,  Nin  and  I  want  it  that  way. 

"I'm  going  to  have  to  be  careful,  though," 
he  says.  "Last  month  I  took  them  on  the 
Bob  Crosby  show  with  me.  Chris  turned 
out  to  be  a  ham.  If  I'm  not  careful,  she'll 
replace  me  on  my  own  show!" 

One  of  the  most  important  facets  of 
every  family's  personality  is  the  mother 
that  watches  over  all.  The  Dunne  family 
is  no  exception.  "Sure,  a  family  is  a 
thousand-and-one  things,"  says  Steve. 
"But  without  mother  we  wouldn't  be 
anything.  I  love  my  Nin.  She  is  what 
people  commonly  refer  to  as  'a  house- 
wife.' I  am  tickled  to  death  that  she  is. 
Nin  is  the  girl  that  I  depend  on  for  every- 
thing. She  is  what  we  call  a  business 
manager,  mother,  cuer  of  lines,  and  all- 
around  general  handyman.  Without  her, 
I  don't  know  what  would  happen." 

So  here,  in  summary,  is  the  picture  of 
Steve  Dunne's  own  family:  A  family  that 
began  when  Mother  and  Dad  were  child- 
hood sweethearts;  a  family  with  a  church- 
prize  honeymoon;  a  family  to  whom  "tea" 
is  an  imporant  word — also  "football," 
"baseball,"  "malts"  and  "high-fashion 
clothes."  "Music"  is  their  byword.  They 
sing,  swim,  barbecue,  and  build  brick  walls. 
They  are  a  family  that  does  one-thousand- 
and-one  things — together. 


OPPORTUNITIES 


for  EVERYBODY 


Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  classified  advertising  rales,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  IApril-Wom.1  5 


FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 


DEMONSTRATORS — $25 -$40  Daily.  Our  lingerie,  apparel 
style  showings  are  sensation  of  party  plan  selling.  Isabel 
Sharrow  made  $258 — 11  days,  sparetime.  Free  Outfit.  Beeline 

Fashions,  Bensenville  314,  III. 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  Up  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  Free 
Samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  Dept.  P-45, 

Glendale,  Calif. 

A  DRESS-LINGERIE  Shop  in  your  home.  Sell  Fifth  Avenue, 
New  York  fashions  from  gorgeous  style  cards.  No  investment. 
Good  commission.  Write  Modern  Manner,  Dept.  8033,  Han- 
over,  Penna.  In  Canada,  366  Mayor  St.,  Montreal,  P.Q. 


MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  Cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 
display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept.  N4359,  Cincinnati, 

25,  O. 

SEND  POSTCARD  FOR  Free  Money-Making  Kit  guaran- 
teed direct-from-Mill  nylons,  lingerie,  blouses,  men's  and 
children's  wear.  American  Mills,  uept.  453,  Indianapolis. 
EARN  EXTRA  MONEY— Work  3-5  hrs.  at  home  daily.  Up 
to  $40  weekly  possible.  Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B.  Dunbar 
Co.,  Dept.  G4,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
HOME  SEWERS  WANTED— Part  or  full  time.  Sew  readi- 
cut  ties,  aprons.  You  make  them,  we  sell  them.  Jud  San,  518 

E.  105,  Suite  D61,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

HOME  WORKERS  WANTED!  Self  employment  home  jobs 
listed.  $20-$5O  weekly  possible.  No  experience  necessary. 
Maxwell,  2108  Payne,  Dept.  B  4,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 


A  DRESS  SHOP  in  your  home.  No  investment.  Liberal  sales 
commissions.  Write  Bellecraft  Fashions,  111  YZ  Eighth  Ave., 

New  York. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good  pay- 
Experience  unnecessary.    California  Handicrafts,  Dept.  91, 

Hollywood  46,  California. 

ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOME  sewing  Baby  Shoes.  Dresses  for 

established  markets.  Thompson's,  Loganville  2,  Wis. 

WOMEN.  SEW  READY-Cut  Wrap-A-Round,  spare  time— 
profitable.  Dept.  P.  Hollywood  Mfg.  Co.,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 


EARN  $10,000.00  TYPI NG  at  home.  Instructions  $2.  Sterling, 

Great  Neck  57,  New  York. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 


EARN  BIG  MONEY — Invisibly  Reweave  damaged  garments 
at  home  I  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  8340  Prairie,  Chicago  19. 
WOMEN  SEW  READY-CUT  Tiesl  No  selling.  Free  details. 
Fashion  Ties  of  California,  P.O.  Box  2063,  Van  Nuys,  Calif. 
MONEY,    TYPING— SEWING  I    Details    Freel    Edwards, 

3912-WG  12th,  Pes  Moines  13,  Iowa. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

PROFITS  TO  150%  selling  finest  Everyday  Greeting  Cards. 
New  21-card  $1.00  Assortments,  unusual  Gifts,  100  fast- 
sellers.  Valuable  Gift  Bonuses.  Assortments  on  approval. 
Stationery  samples  Free.  $1.00  Gift  Free  for  prompt  action) 
Creative  Cards,  4401  Cermak,  Dept.  528-A,  Chicago  23. 
EXTRA  MONEY  EVERY  Week.  I'll  send  you  full-size  Blair 
household  products.  Show  them  to  friends  and  neighbors.  You 
can  make  Big  Extra  Profits.  Write  Blair,  Pept.  185NP,  Lynch- 

burg,  Va. 

ADD  TO  FAMILY  income.  Unlimited  earnings.  Work  in  spare 
time  demonstrating  household  plastics  and  toys.  No  canvas- 
sing or  experience  necessary.  Halliday,   17-B,   Pennington 
Ave     Pssssic    N  J 
BUY    WHOLESALE    450,000    Products.    Literature    Free. 

Carter,  Box  6011-WG,  Chicago  80. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information  booklet  free.  American  School,  Dept.  X474, 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 


HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes,  Study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Piploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog  HCH-25,  Wayne 

School,  2527  N.  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  PIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

X-RAY  OR  PHYSICAL  Therapy  pays  big.  Learn  at  home. 
Free  catalog.  National  Institute,  Desk  18,  4868H  Sheridan, 

Chicago  40. 

MUSIC  &  MUSICAL  INSTRUMENTS 

ELECTRIC  GUITARS,  AMPLIFIERS,  Kits.  Wholesale.  Free 

catalog.  Carvins,  Baldwin  Park,  Calif. 

MALE  &   FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP  12  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

HEALTH  &  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  <£,  Minor 

Hospital,  Suite  C-413,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics — nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free.  Hoover 

Dept.  M-119,  New  York  11.  N.Y. ' 

GET  OWN  DRESSES  as  Bonus  and  make  extra  money 
weekly  part  time  showing  friends  nationally  known  Maisonette 
dresses,  lingerie,  children's  wear,  etc.,  and  taking  fast  orders 
Write  Maisonette,  4454  Sycamore  St.,  Anderson,  Ind. 

ADDITIONAL  INCOME 
EARN   READY  CASH  doing  mailing  work.   No  experience 
needed — F.  Wilson  Business  Service,  2875  Glendale  Blvd 
Los  Angeles  39,  California. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 


SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home  for  stores.  We  contact  stores 
Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

SE4WLF?EASl_CUTr.Kits    *3  t0  $10  DailY  Possible.   Liebig 
Industries,  Beaver  Dam  4,  Wisconsin. 


MONEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid  Babbitt  $4165.00  in 
few  weeks.  Free  Book.,Washington   Mushroom    Ind.,  Dept, 

164,  2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle,  Wash. 

EXTRA  MONEY,  STUFFING— Mailing  Envelopes  3-5  hours 
at  home  daily.  $40  weekly  possible.  Our  instructions  tell  how. 
Dept.  G4  Education  Publishers,  4043  St  Clair,  Cleveland  3, 

Ohio. 

WHOLESALEI  HUGE  SELECTION,  famous  brand  products. 
Sensational  discounts!  Large  catalog.  Unusual  business  plans 
included.  Consolidated  Distributors,  21-28  Lafayette,  Paterson 

15,  New  Jersey. 

GOOD  SPARETIME,  FULLTIME  earnings  possible,  at 
home,  preparing  mailings  for  advertisers.  Temco,  Box  946, 

Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  circulars  for  adver- 
tisers. Complete  instructions — 25c.  Siwaslian,  431 7-F  Gleane, 

Elmhurst  73,  N.Y. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  day  up.  Hire  others 
Samples,  details.  Studio  Girl — Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif. 

Dept.  P-45b. 

MAKE   YOUR   TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.   Send   $1.00. 

Hughes,  7004  Piversey,  Chicago  35. 

$60  THOUSAND  POSSIBLE  mailing  envelopes.  Instructions 

$1.  Prawer  188P,  Ft.  Gibson,  Okla. 

EARN  MONEY  AT  Homel  Must  Have  good  Handwriting. 

Write  for  Petails.  Atlas,  Box  188-A,  Melrose,  Mass. 

EARN   SPARE  TIME  cash  mailing  advertising   literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

SENO  OUT  POSTCAROS.  Cash  daily.  Write  Box  14,  Bel- 
mont, Mass. 

GUARANTEEP  HOMEWORKI  IMMEOIATE  Commis- 
sions!  Everything  Furnishedl  Hirsch,  1301-C  Hoe,  New  York 

City  59. z «* 

58  WAYS  To  Make  Money  At  Home!  Booklet  $1.00.  Home 

Workshop,  1590  Pover,  Penver  15,  Colorado. 

OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

$200  OR  MORE  for  your  child's  photo  (all  ages— types) — if 
used  for  magazine,  calendar,  billboard  advertising.  Send  one 
small  photo  for  approval.  Print  child's  -  parent's  name  -  ad- 
dress on  back.  Returned  30  days.  No  obligation.  Established 
1946.  Spotlite,  5880-DPW  Hollywood,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 
CHILD  PHOTOS  NEEDEP.  (all  ages— types).  High  fees 
paid  by  advertisers  for  use  in  magazines,  calendars,  billboards. 
Send  (one  only)  black  and  white  photo  for  approval.  Print 
child's  name  and  parent's  name  on  back.  National  Photo 
Exhibitors,  Pept.  P,  406  N.  Beverly  Dr.,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif. 
MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog  (Plain  Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers;  $2.98  to  $22.98;  Crawford's, 

Dept.  28,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.    Experience   unnecessary.   Crown    Industries,   7150-B 

Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  Folders  to  New 
Mothers!  Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Allen  Company, 

Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 


Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 
TYPEWRITE    LOCAL    NAMES,    ADDRESSES,    Excitingly 
different  I  Particulars  free.  Economy,  Rowley,  Mass. 
SEND    OUT    POSTCARDS.    Cash  daily.    Write  Box    14, 

Belmont,  Mass. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS  Make  Fast-Selling  che- 
nille monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32.N.Y. 
HOMEWORK!  MAILING  FOR  National  Firm.  Everything 
Supplied.   Good    Earnings.  Genmerco,   Box   142-W,    Boston 

22,  Mass. 

OLD   COINS   &  MONEY  WANTED   ~ 
$1,000.00  FOR  1894-S  Dime.  Certain  1913  Nickel  $2,000  00 
1901-S  Quarter  $30.00-$250.00.  Hundreds  of  others  worth 
$5.00-$500.00.  Our  Complete  Illustrated  Guarantee  Buying 
Catalogue  25c.  Worthycoin  Corporation  (P-356),  Boston  8 

Massachusetts.  

WE  PURCHASE  INPIANHEAP  pennies.  Comnlete  allcoin 
catalogue   25c.    Magnacoins,    Box   61-DB,    Whitestone    57, 

New  York. 

COMMERCIAL  ART  &  CARTOONING 
"HOW  TO  MAKE  Money  With  Simple  Cartoons"— A  book 
everyone  who  likes  to  draw  should  have.  It  is  free;  no  obli- 
gation.  Simply  address  Cartoonists'   Exchange,   Dept.  684. 

Pleasant  Hill.  Ohio. ' 

HELP  WANTED 

FOREIGN  U  S  JOBS  to  $18,000.  Many  overseas  countries. 
Fare  Paid.  Skilled-Unskilled  Trades,  Office.  Stamped  self- 
addressed  env.  brings  reply.  Job  Opportunities,  Waseca, 
11A  Minn. 

PERSONAL 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men  and 
women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  endorsers. 
Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details  free  in  plain 
envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co.,  323  Securities 

Bldg.,  Pept.  P-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Oiscovery!  Free 
Trial  Offer.  Write  Pixacol,  Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

BOOKS  &  PERIODICALS 
184    TELEVISION    STAR    biographies    and    pictures.    160 
pages  $1.00.  TV  Personalities,  2611  Shenandoah,  St.  Louis  4, 
Mo. 

STAMPS 

FIRST  U.N.  Set.  Among  World's  Prettiest.  Only  10c.   Ap- 

provals.  Welles,  Box  1246-PX,  NYC  8. 

100  OIFFERENT  U.S.— 50c.  Approval.  Leonard,  1143X 
North  Keeler.  Chicago  51. 


WORK  AT  HOME 

$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.    Easy.    Write,    Studio 
Company,  Greenville  7,  Penna. 


SELL  DRESSES 


NEW  YORK 


/A  dress  shop  Id  your  home!  Established  New 
York  firm  desires  ambitious  women  to  sell 
dresses,  suits,  featuring  the  newest  New  York  look.  Ex- 
perience unnecessary.  Good  commissions.  Free  dresses  to 
wear  as  bonus.  No  Investment.  Write  for  sample  book 
BELLECRAFT  FASHIONS,  111   Eighth  Ave.,  Dept.  M-4,  N.  Y. 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Finish  in  2  Years 


nt    school    work — prepares    for    college    entrance    exam  a.    StanJ.irJ 
S.    teita   supplied.    Diploma   award.-.-'.    Credit   for    H.    S.   subjects 
n>pleted.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Ask  for  Free  Bulletin. 

t  American  School,  Dept  H453,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37 


89 


PATirRN 


Make  This 

Anne  Fogarty 

Original 

and    be   the 

Best  Dressed  Girl 

In    Town 


Let  these  famous 
American  Designers 
help  you  be  the  best 
dressed  girl  in  town 
-if  you  can  sew:-       ^^  FOCARTy 

Ceil  Chapman — Claire  McCardell — Tina 
Leser — Jo  Copeland — Philip  Mangone — 
Monte  Sano — Herbert  Sondheim — Anne 
Fogarty — Brigance — David  Goodstei n — 
Joset  Walker — Joseph  Halpert — Vera 
Maxwell — Toni  Owen — Fira  Benenson — 
Harvey  Berin — Frank  Gallant — Mollie 
Parnis — Clare  Potter. 

Patterns  of  136  original  designs  by 
these  famous   names   are   now   available. 

To  see  this  entire  collection  send  50c 
for  our  100-page  pattern  booklet  XL 


World  Wide,  Dept.  WG-4-55 
63  Central  Avenue 
Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send    me    100-page    pattern    booklet    XI.    I 
enclose  50c. 


NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE. 


FREE!     FREE! 


Photo  of  Your  Favorite 

MOVIE  STAR 

moll  pocket  s'utt,  bur  LARGER, 
FREE!  Beautiful  Catalog.  FREE! 
Many  additional  pictures  of  popular  ttori  on.  cover. 
FREEI  Tellt  how  to  gel  HOME  ADDRESSES,  BIRTHDAYS, 
ond  PHOTOS  of  STARS  HOMES.  Send  only  15(  for 
handling    (3   photos   for  25c.)    Rush  to: 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STAR  CENTER 

Box  2309,  Dept.     l-4,    Hollywood  28,  California 


Ball-o-foot 

Cushion 


90 


v0o**  oVER  T°* 

QUICK  RELIEF 

for  Callouses, 

Tenderness, 

Burning  at 

Ball  off  Foot 

Made  of  toft 
LATEX  FOAM 

You  Actually  WALK 
ON  CUSHIONS! 

It's  entirely  NEW!  Without  adhesive,  scientifically 
designed  Dr.  Scholl's  BALL-O-FOOT  Cushion  loops 
over  toe  and  nestles  under  ball  of  foot.  Relieves  pain- 
ful callouses,  burning,  tenderness  at  once.  Gives 
priceless  walking  ease.  The  cushion— notyou— absorbs 
the  shock  of  each  step.  Flesh  color.  Worn  invisibly. 
Washable.  Only  $1.00  pair  at  Drug,  Shoe,  Depart- 
ment and5-10^Storesand  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort® 
Shops  everywhere.  If  not  obtainable  locally,  order 
direct,  enclosing  price.  State  if  for  woman  or  man. 
I)K.  8CHOI.I.S,  IN<„  Dept.  57  B,  Chicago  10,111. 


Six  Fellows  and  a  Dog 


(Continued  from  page  68) 
a  few  pointers  from  a  couple  of  old- 
timers  in  the  ventriloquial  field,  who  have 
since  passed  away.  Such  pointers,  for  in- 
stance, as  that  the  letters  B,  M,  P  and  V 
are  the  hardest  ones  for  a  ventriloquist 
to  use.  Any  sounds  you  have  to  close  your 
lips  to  form.  When  Danny  O'Day  .  .  .  the 
real  one,  the — er — live  one  .  .  .  came  into 
my  life,  I  named  him  Danny  O'Day,  not 
only  out  of  sentiment  for  his  little  prede- 
cessor, but  because  the  name  is  an  easy  one 
for  a  ventriloquist  to  say. 

"The  piece  of  advice  I  remember  most 
vividly,  however,  was  given  me  by  one  of 
the  old  boys  known  as  'Uncle  Herman.' 
'When  you're  working,'  said  Uncle  Her- 
man, 'think  of  the  dummy  as  a  human 
being,  whatever  you  do.  When  you're  not 
working,  think  of  him  as  a  dummy,  what- 
ever you  do!'  And  then,  not  looking  at  me, 
looking  at  something  I  couldn't  see,  Uncle 
Herman  added:    'It's  safer  so.' 

"Perhaps  Uncle  Herman  had  read  the 
story  about  the  dummy  who  overcame  the 
ventriloquist's  own  personality  and  drove 
him  insane.  I  read  it,  and  remember  that  I 
got  a  little  scared,"  Jimmy  smiled,  "won- 
dering if  such  things  may  be  possible. 
Ridiculous,  of  course.  .  .  . 

Nevertheless,  I've  followed  Uncle  Her- 
man's advice.  Offstage,  Danny,  Humphrey 
and  Farfel  are  dummies  to  me.  They  go 
back  into  a  suitcase,  as  I've  said.  And  stay 
there.  No  romping  around.  No  run-of-the- 
house  for  them,"  said  Jimmy  (and  did  I 
see  him  wink,  or  didn't  I?). 

"Danny  and  Humphrey  share  a  suitcase, 
custom-made  just  for  them,  with  a  built- 
in  space  for  their  heads  to  rest  comfort- 
ably and  room  for  their  clothes  to  hang 
properly.  Farfel,  the  isolationist,  has  his 
own  case.  At  home — which  is  an  apartment 
in  Forest  Hills,  Long  Island — the  cases  are 
kept  in  my  bedroom,  where  I  can  keep 
an  eye  on  them  ...  on  the  cases,  of  course. 

"No  spooky  feeling  about  the  dummies," 
Jimmy  said  stoutly,  "up  to  this  point.  Ex- 
cept that,  seriously,  I  do  think  of  them  as 
people  when  I'm  working.  Also" — this 
with  a  sigh — "when  I  pay  their  bills! 
Heavily  insured  as  they  are — almost  as 
heavily  as  I  am — they're  people  to  me,  all 
right   .    .   .   pretty   costly   characters,   too." 

"They  were  costly,  to  begin  with,"  Jimmy 
recalled.  "There  are  only  a  very  few  men 
in  the  world  who  make  professional 
dummies.  Mine  were  made  by  one  of  the 
greatest  of  these — Frank  Marshall  of  Chi- 
cago, who  also  made  the  original  Charlie 
McCarthy  and  Mortimer  Snerd — at  a  cost 
of  approximately  $1500  each.  Dummies  are 
made  to  last  a  lifetime,  with  proper  care. 
The  only  things  that  can  wear  out  are  the 
mazes  of  strings  and  levers  in  a  dummy's 
innards.  This  can  happen  without  warn- 
ing," Jimmy  sighed  again,  "so  you  must 
play  safe  by  having  two  of  each! 

"Their  wardrobes  run  high,  too.  Farfel, 
of  course,  comes  equipped.  Humphrey,  the 
old  conservative,  doesn't  demand  too  many 
clothes  and  takes  care  of  the  ones  he  has. 
Still,  the  English  tweed  sportswear  he  goes 
in  for  doesn't  come  cheap.  .  .  .  Danny  is  the 
boy  who  breaks  the  bank.  He  wears,  in 
miniature,  exactly  the  same  clothes  I  do, 
and  has  twenty  suits  in  his  theatrical 
wardrobe — at  $115  the  suit.  He  also  has 
the  same  number  of  ties,  hats,  shirts, 
sweaters,  shoes — suede,  patent  leather, 
riding  boots,  ski  boots — as  I  have.  Usually, 
Danny  won't  wear  a  blue  shirt  if  I'm 
wearing  a  white  one,  and  if  I  wear  a  bow 
tie,  Danny  must  wear  a  bow  tie,  too — or 
else.  Sartorially  speaking,  I'm  afraid  he's 
spoiled.  I  like  to  dress  as  well  as  possible, 
but   I  wouldn't  say  I  am  overly   clothes- 


conscious,  though  I'm  afraid,"  Jimmy  said, 
dead-pan,  "that  Danny  is!" 

Actually,  Jimmy  takes  an  almost  disap- 
pointingly realistic  view  of  ventriloquism 
and  of  those,  including  himself,  who  prac- 
tice the  ancient  art.  For  instance,  Jimmy 
says,  there's  no  such  thing  as  a  "born" 
ventriloquist.  Nor  is  there  anything  in  the 
throat  of  a  ventriloquist,  so  far  as  Jimmy 
knows,  which  is  not  to  be  found  in  any 
normal  throat.  He's  heard  of  a  doctor  in 
Kansas  who  is  interested  in  making  a  sur- 
vey of  ventriloquists'  throats  for  the  pur- 
pose of  determining  whether  or  not  there 
is  anything  unusual  in  them.  "But  I'm 
positive,"  Jimmy  laughed,  "that  my  throat 
contains  only  standard  equipment.  Of 
course,  no  one  really  knows.  .  .  . 

"What  you  do  have  to  have  for  ven- 
triloquism," Jimmy  pointed  out,  "as  for 
anything  else,  is  an  aptitude.  Given  an  apti- 
tude, then  ...  as  with  anything  else,  such 
as  the  piano  or  violin  .  .  .  practice,  as 
much  practice  as  possible,  makes  perfect. 

"I  suppose  it  can  be  said,"  Jimmy  com- 
mented, "that  I  have  an  aptitude.  As  a 
small  child,  I  always  fooled  around  with 
puppets  and  marionettes.  Tying  strings  on 
them,  manipulating  them,  making  them 
dance  and  do  acrobatics  and  sing  and  talk. 
Then,  at  the  age  of  ten,  I  won  the  little 
dummy  in  a  bingo  game,  so  I  transferred," 
Jimmy  shrugged,  "to  the  dummy.  Just  as 
any  child  turns  from  an  old  toy  to  a  new 
one.  It  was  as  simple  as  that. 

"I  named  the  little  fellow  Danny  O'Day 
because,  in  those  days,  unless  a  dummy 
was  an  Irish  dummy,  nothing  doing! 
Charlie  McCarthy  fixed  that.  Edgar  Bergen 
and  I  went  to  the  same  high  school,  by 
the  way — Lake  View  High,  in  Chicago — 
although  not  at  the  same  time.  I  never  met 
Mr.  Bergen  in  Chicago,  but  he  was  an 
inspiration  in  my  career.  When  I  began 
to  listen  to  him  on  the  radio,  I  used  to 
think:  If  a  man  like  this  can  be  a  great 
star,  I  hope  that  I  can,  too.  .  .  .  But  all  this 
came  later.  .  .  . 

"Actually,"  Jimmy  said,  "I  kind  of  drifted 
into  professional  ventriloquism,  for  various 
reasons — none  of  them,  in  the  beginning, 
because  I  thought  of  it  as  a  career.  When  I 
first  got  Danny,  I  used  him  mostly  to  ex- 
press the  thoughts  that  I  myself  was  too 
shy  to  make  vocal.  To  this  day,  my  folks 
credit  Danny  with  helping,  me  overcome 
the  extreme  shyness  that  plagued  me  as  a 
child.  And,  to  this  day,  shyness  still  plagues 
me  and  Danny  still  helps  me.  One  thing 
is  for  sure:  When  I  first  began  to  throw 
my  voice  effectively,  it  was  in  order  to  pass 
the  buck  to  Danny!" 

Within  a  year  after  acquisition  of  the 
first  Danny,  pint-sized  ventriloquist  Nel- 
son was  throwing  his  voice  effectively 
enough  to  become  a  professonal  trouper. 
He  was  still  in  grade  school — in  the 
seventh  grade,  to  be  exact — when,  after 
playing  a  number  of  amateur  shows 
around  Chicago,  he  made  his  first  "pro" 
appearance  at  the  old  Englewood  Theater. 

"For  this  bow  before  the  footlights," 
Jimmy  recalled,  "my  dad  painted  the  little 
dummy,  put  a  wig  on  him,  smartened  him 
up  .  .  .  and  I  was  paid  $25  for  the  week. 
Since  I'd  been  winning  two  to  five  dollars 
in  amateur  shows,  this  whetted  my  ap- 
petite for  the  theater,  sharpened  my  nos- 
trils for  the  smell  of  greasepaint.  One  show 
led  to  another,  which  also  led  to  fre- 
quent absences  from  school.  So  many  ab- 
sences— and  all  of  them  'due  to  illness' — 
my  classmates  and  teachers  must  have 
thought  of  me,"  Jimmy  laughed,  "as  the 
sickest  kid  in  that  or  any  neighborhood!" 

After  being  graduated  from  Lake  View 
High,    Jimmy    played    Midwestern    towns 


and  cities,  practiced  constantly,  picked  up 
those  pointers  he  mentioned.  It  was  during 
this  period  that,  by  the  simple  means  of 
emptying  his  pockets  and  piggy  bank,  he 
acquired  the  real,  the  live  (?),  the  certainly 
lively  Danny  O'Day. 

"But,  for  all  the  shows  I  was  doing  and 
the  kick  I  got  out  of  having  another  fel- 
low with  me — Danny,  that  is — ventrilo- 
quism was  still,"  Jimmy  said,  "a  great  big 
hobby  with  me.  My  dad,  an  accountant, 
was  a  businessman.  My  younger  brother, 
Don,  had  a  business  career  in  mind.  Why 
not  me?  I  had  a  couple  of  office  jobs  and, 
although  they  didn't  fascinate  me  as  show 
business  did,  I  thought  facts  and  figures, 
not  fascination,  were  the  way  Mr.  Average 
Citizen  earns  his  living." 

Jimmy  was  still  alternating  between 
theater  dates  and  office  jobs,  somewhat 
confused  in  his  mind,  when  he  met  theatri- 
cal manager  Louis  W.  Cohan,  six  years 
ago  in  Chicago.  Practically  on  sight,  Mr. 
Cohan  saw  the  glitter  of  a  star  in  the 
making.  "But  I  put  him  on  a  date  at  the 
Little  Club  in  Omaha,"  Mr.  Cohan  points 
out,  "where  I  could  watch  him  work.  I 
saw  that  his  technique  was  good,  very 
good,  but  that  he  needed  wardrobe,  ma- 
terial, the  proper  showcase." 

Under  Mr.  Cohan's  management,  neo- 
phyte Nelson  made  his  television  debut  on 
Chicago's  first  experimental  TV  station, 
W9XBK  (now  WBKB),  and  continued  to 
play  Midwestern  night  clubs  and  theaters, 
gradually  polishing  and  perfecting  his  tech- 
nique to  the  point  where  Mr.  Cohan 
thought  Jimmy  was  ready  for  New  York. 

In  New  York,  Mr.  Cohan  got  Jimmy  on 
the  Ed  Sullivan  show,  Toast  Of  The  Town. 
As  for  so  many  other  starborne  youngsters, 
Toast  was,  for  Jimmy,  the  "proper  show- 
case," from  which  he  stepped  onto  just 
about  every  top  TV  network  show  and 
into  just  about  every  plush  night  club, 
coast  to  coast,  that  you  can  name.  A 
month  after  his  conquest  of  New  York's 
Copacabana,  for  instance,  Jimmy  dupli- 
cated his  success  in  the  same  city's  Roxy 
Theater — at  the  stage  door  of  which  the 
fans,  now  hep  to  charm  boys  Nelson  and 
Higsbye  and  O'Day,  swarmed  and  swooned. 

After  more  appearances  on  network  TV, 
in  night  clubs,  and  a  stint  at  the  Radio 
City  Music  Hall,  Jimmy  was  signed  to  do 
the  commercials  on  Milton  Berle's  show, 
Texaco  Star  Theater.  So  popular  did  Jim- 
my become  on  this,  his  first  "steady"  job, 
that  the  NBC  mail  department  was  obliged 
to  increase  its  personnel  in  order  to  handle 
Jimmy's  pyramiding  fan  mail. 

Now  a  top  TV  and  radio  star,  Jimmy  no 
longer  thinks  of  ventriloquism  as  "a  great 
big  hobby,"  but  as  his  life  work,  to  which 
he  gives  everything  he  has.  Always  on  the 
lookout  for  innovations  in  the  ventriloquial 
field  and  for  additions  to  his  "mahogany 
family,"  Jimmy  introduced  Humphrey 
Higsbye  four  and  a  half  years  ago. 

"I  wanted  him  to  be  as  different  as  pos- 
sible," Jimmy  said,  "from  snippy,  pre- 
cocious but — I  hope — likable  Danny  O'Day. 
So  I  gave  him  an  English  name,  a  slight 
English  accent,  slanted  him  a  bit  on  the 
stuffy  side."  ("Humphrey  Higsbye  is  the 
old  Jimmy,"  a  friend  of  the  "old  Jimmy" 
told  me,  "conservative,  that  is,  timid,  and 
overly  polite.") 

Farfel,  the  latest  addition  to  ventrilo- 
quist Nelson's  mahogany  menage,  is  the 
only  talking  dog  in  the  world,  but  doesn't 
look  too  happy  about  it.  Lop-eared,  dole- 
ful-faced, he  speaks  in  a  plaintive, 
apologetic,  slightly  nasal  voice,  and  his  re- 
current phrase,  "I  wouldn't  say  that,"  has 
caught  on  with  youngsters  all  over  the 
country.  "It  is  a  real  departure  for  a 
ventriloquist — or  anyone  else,  for  that 
matter,"  Jimmy  laughed,  "to  have  a  talk- 
ing dog.  Farfel,  by  the  way,  is  the  Jewish 


''Who'd  be//Q\/e  /was  &ver 
embartassed  by  P/MPLE&/'' 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED 

HIDES  PIMPLES  WHILE  IT  WORKS 

Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely 
improved  while  using  clearasil. 

Amazing  starving  action. clearasil  actually 
starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the  oils 
that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  clearasil's  anti- 
septic action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria  that 
can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored  to 
hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless ...  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 

America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication ...  because  clearasil  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED  to 
work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctor's  tests  or  money 
back.  594  and  98<*.  At  all  druggists.  Get  clearasil 
today.  (Available  in  Canada,  slightly  more.) 


DISCOVERED!  NEW!  Makes 

You  Look  10  Years  Younger 
BY  TONIGHT! 

Say  "good  bye"  to  gray, 
streaked,  dull,  drab  hair  that 
looks  old.   New  TINTZ 
CREME  COLOR  SHAM- 
POO tint  makes  hair  shine 
with  lasting,  deep  color  tone 
so  natural-looking  no  one 
ever  suspects  the  beautiful 
color  isn't  your  own.  Easy  . . . 
best  for  home  use.  Lanolin  con- 
ditioner base  makes  hair  softer, 
lustrous,  easy-to-dress,  wave  beau- 
tifully. 14  nature's  shades  on  color  chart  with  every  pack- 
age. Ask  at  drug  stores.  Money  back  guarantee. 

TINTZ  CREME  COLOR  SHAMPOO 


With  this  simple  demonstration 


MAKE  UP  TO  '65 

OR  MORE  IN  1  DAY 

I  Over  a  million  Flexiclogs  sold.  FREE  demonstra- 
tion kit  contains  sample  Flexiclogs . . .  10-second  demon- 
stration clinches  order.  New  Style  sensation  in  footwear. 
The  whole  family  wants  them.  Patented  Hinged  Sole 
flexes  on  foot.  Flat  or  high  heels.  Interchangeable  straps 
in  11  colors,  and  matching  accessories  to  multiply  sales. 
No  experience,  no  investment.  


FREE    $5.50    SAMPLE   KIT    FOR    YOU! 


FLEXICLOGS,   Box    745,   New   Holstein,   Wis. 

HURRY  !     RUSH  my  Somple  Kit  so  I  con  start  making 

money  now  ! 

Name 

Address 

City State 


What's  Causing  Your 

CONSTIPATION? 

.  .  .  And  What  /^Snsr 
Can  It  Lead  To?  l 


If  your  constipation  is  more  than  temporary 
you  should  read  the  authoritative  FREE  book 
on  this  subject,  prepared  under  the  supervi- 
sion of  one  of  America's  leading  hospitals. 
The  part  constipation  plays  in  ulcers,  colitis, 
liver,  nervousness,  etc.;  its  "warnings"  and  its 
after  effects  are  explained.  Write  for  your 
copy  today.  Address  McCleary  Hospital,  423 
Elms  Blvd.,  Excelsior  Springs,  Mo. 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWEI^MIXERS/etc. 
GIVENJfO  YOU  FREE! 

Hundreds  of  famous,  na- 
tionally advertised  products 
to  choose  from — furniture, 
rugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 
verware, china,  draperies. 
You  get  $50.00  —  $100.00 
and  more  in  merchandise 
just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
Popular  Club  you  help  your 
friends  form.  It's  easy !  It's 
fun!  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 
ing to  buy.  write  today. 

!"popular"ciub  PlanTDept.  E-940,  Lynbrook,  N.Y.   ■ 
Send  Big  FREE  FULL-COLOR  Catalog 


I 

I   City State I 
Popular  Club  Secretaries:  You  will  automatically 
receive  this  new  cataloc  soon! 


Name. . . 
Address. 
City. 


91 


92 


MILES  NERVINE 

helps  you 

RELAX 


These  days,  nearly  all  of  us  feel  tense 
and  nervous  once  in  a  while.  So,  try 
MILES  NERVINE,  to  help  you  feel 
relaxed.  When  you  are  calm,  you  feel 
better;  you  do  better!  Follow  the  label, 
avoid  excessive  use.  Get  MILES 
NERVINE  at  your  drugstore,  effer- 
vescent tablets  or  liquid. 


MILES 


NERVINE 


'  Foi  Quick  Relief 
Ask  youi  Diuggisl  foi 


DENT'S 


LEARN  AT  HOME 

TO  BE  A  PRACTICAL  NURSE 

r|^    jrM  if  You  can  learn  practical  nursing  at  home 
W^W  ^*MS    i  in  spare  time.  Course  endorsed  by  phy- 
«»  sicians.  Thousands  of  graduates. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  NOT  REQUIRED 
56th  year.    One  graduate  has  charge  of 
10 -bed  hospital.     Another  saved  $400 
while    learning.     Equipment   included. 
Men.  women,  18  to  60.    Easy  tuition  payments.  Trial  plan. 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF    NURSING 
Oept.  24,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd..  Chicago  4,  III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 
Name m 


City 


State- 


-Age- 


ENLARGEMENT 

of  you/*  Favorffe  Photo 


I  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
l~  make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
""  ity  5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
shot, photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
. ..,  Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
w9J«/inil«l\  ment  beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10c1  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-17 
7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd..   Hollywood   38.    Calif. 


vuvS 


MS*-  ■'. 


*& 


NU-NAILS 

ARTIFICIAL  FINGERNAILS 

]  Cover  short,  broken,  thin  nails 

J  with  nu-nails.  Applied  in  a  jiffy 

<  with  our  amazing  new  quick-dry- 

I  ing  glue.  Can  be  worn  any  length 

. . .  polished  any  shade.  Helpover- 

come  nail-biting  habit.  Setof  ten 

29c.  At  dime,  drug  &  dept.  stores. 

NU-NAILS  CO.,  Dept.  1 6-D 

S2S1  W.Harrison,  Chicago  44 
AIho  Hollywood  Fingornailm.m* 

Permanent  Dubonett  Rose  Color. 
No  poliah  roquirod  ...  39c  set. 


name  for  a  spaghetti  type  of  thing — short 
noodle,  that's  what  it  is.  I  named  him 
Farfel  because  I  thought  it  had  a  kind  of 
a  funny  sound." 

With  the  addition  of  Farfel,  Nelson's 
mahogany  family  equals  in  number  his 
flesh-and-blood  family.  For  Jimmy — who 
married  fresh  out  of  high  school — is  the 
father  of  three  husky  boys:  Lee  and  Larry, 
the  twins,  who  are  seven  years  old,  and 
Jerry,  the  baby,  who  is  almost  six.  Being 
"Daddy"  is  quite  a  job — when  you  count  in 
Danny,  Humphrey  and  Farfel — for  a  young 
fellow  just  turned  twenty-six. 

But  Jimmy  loves  it.  "Gives  me  something 
to  work  for,"  he  said,  with  that  ingratiating 
smile  of  his.  "They're  my  biggest  hobby. 
The  other  is  motion  picture  photography. 
But,  since  most  of  that  consists  of  pho- 
tographing the  kids,  you  might  say  the 
two  hobbies  are  one." 

Jimmy  and  his  wife  are  now  divorced, 
and  the  young  ventriloquist  has  custody  of 
the  three  boys.  "The  children  have  a  nurse, 
of  course,"  Jimmy  explained,  "but  I  go 
home  and  spend  a  lot  of  time  with  them.  I 
do  some  of  my  rehearsing  for  them — 
voices  and  things — and  they  get  into  the 
act,  too.  They  try  to  do  the  voices,  imitate 
Humphrey's  laugh.    Little  Jerry  scares  me, 


sometimes,  the  way  he  talks  without  mov- 
ing his  lips.  Larry,  one  of  the  twins,  goes 
for  the  manipulations  more  than  the  others 
do.  I  neither  discourage  them  nor  particu- 
larly encourage  them.  So  far,"  the  young 
father  laughed,  "I'm  just  letting  it  take  its 
natural  course. 

"The  boys  know  my  little  characters  are 
dummies  and  go  back  into  a  suitcase," 
Jimmy  added.  "But  they  talk  to  them  as 
if  they  were  real  people,  shake  hands  with 
them,  give  them  an  occasional  kiss,  and 
never  call  them  'dummies.'  The  children 
always  use  their  names. 

"A  while  back,"  Jimmy  grinned,  "one 
of  Farfel's  levers  wasn't  working  properly. 
In  trying  to  fix  it,  I  cut  my  hand.  Then, 
unable  to  finish  the  job,  I  put  in  a  call 
for  a  mechanic  skilled  in  repairing  dum- 
mies. When  I  got  home  the  next  afternoon, 
I  was  met  at  the  door  by  three  little  men 
almost  in  tears.  'A  man  came  and  took 
Farfel,'  they  said,  'because  he  bit  you!' 

"As  I've  said,  though,  there's  no  spooky 
feeling  about  the  dummies,"  Jimmy 
laughed.  "Except  that,  seriously,  I  do  think 
of  them  as  two  fellows  and  a  dog,  when 
I'm  working  with  them.  And  when  I  pay 
their  bills.  And  when — but,  gosh,  it's  only 
happened  once — Farfel  bites  me!" 


Home  with  a  Capital  H 


(Continued  from  page  51) 
in  his  work  and  at  home,  and  practically 
the  neatest  (and,  I  might  add,  the  sweetest) 
man  in  the  world.  And,  as  if  keeping  up 
with  Durward  and  the  boys  were  not 
enough,  I  am  now  responsible  for  two 
homes  instead  of  one — our  all-year-round 
house  in  a  suburban  community  close  to 
New  York  and  a  brand-new  summer  place 
we  built  this  past  year  on  a  lake  fifty- 
five  miles  up  in  the  country. 

If  ever  before  I  had  missed  my  show- 
business  way  of  life  (which  included  sing- 
ing on  radio,  writing  and  appearing  on 
T7ie  Wishing  Well,  a  program  from  Chi- 
cago, and  later  working  as  radio  director 
of  a  New  York  advertising  agency),  I  cer- 
tainly couldn't  miss  it  now.  There  isn't 
time  to  think  about  it.  Not  since  Durward 
and  I  began  to  build  our  vacation  house — 
or,  rather,  since  we  started  to  build  a  little 
fishing  shack  that  somehow  or  other  grew 
into  a  house. 

Unlike  that  "dream  house"  made  fam- 
ous by  Mr.  Blandings,  however,  everything 
has  gone  right  with  ours.  Watching  it 
grow,  from  the  rough  plans  we  drew  on 
paper  to  an  attractive  five-room  cypress 
home,  built  in  an  "L"  shape  around  an 
outdoor  terrace,  was  the  big  thrill  of  last 
summer.  The  workmen  were  wonderful, 
the  materials  all  that  we  had  expected 
them  to  be.  The  walls  went  up  on  schedule, 
the  roof  went  on,  and  a  fir  tree  was  hung 
from  the  ridge  pole  early  last  September 
— a  traditional  rite  to  mark  the  comple- 
tion of  the  outside  of  the  house,  with  the 
usual  celebration  for  the  men  who  had 
done  the  job  and  for  our  friends. 

But  surely,  we  thought,  there  must  be 
delays  now — for  instance,  in  locating  and 
digging  a  well.  There  weren't  any.  We  not 
only  found  water  easily,  but  nice,  soft 
water,  while  most  of  our  neighbors  must 
be  content  with  hard.  The  brush  near  the 
house  has  been  cleared,  the  ground  has 
been  bulldozed,  and  at  the  first  scent  of 
spring  the  Kirbys  will  be  out  planting  and. 
readying  for  a  new  season  of  weekends 
and  one  long,  delightful  vacation,  when 
Daddy  will  be  home  day  after  day  and  we 
can  be  out  on  our  beautiful  lake  from 
morning  until  night. 

To  understand  why  Durward  wanted 
this  house  in  the  woods,  you  have  to  know 
something  about  the  kind  of  man   he  is. 


In  the  first  place,  he  is  a  family  man. 
In  spite  of  the  pressures  of  his  work  and 
the  need  for  rest  and  tranquility  when  he 
is  away  from  it,  he  prefers  vacations  that 
include  the  children.  Randy  (whose  full 
name  is  Durward  Randall,  for  his  Daddy) 
is  a  Boy  Scout  and  sometimes  goes  off  on 
little  trips  with  the  other  boys,  but  so  far 
we  have  never  sent  him  to  camp  for  the 
summer.  We're  a  family  that  enjoys  being 
together.  Dennis  has  gone  fishing  with 
us  practically  since  he  was  a  baby,  and 
we  wouldn't  think  of  going  off  without 
him  now. 

Secondly,  my  husband  and  I  are  not 
night- clubbers,  nor  do  we  do  much  party- 
going.  Durward's  idea  of  the  perfect  wind- 
up  for  any  week  is  to  herd  Cappy,  the 
cocker,  and  the  kids  and  me  into  the  station 
wagon,  pile  in  the  fishing  gear  and  some 
supplies,  and  head  for  the  woods  and 
water. 

Thirdly,  like  most  husbands,  Durward 
likes  to  have  a  "project"  going,  something 
he  can  work  at.  And  what's  more  exciting 
to  work  at  than  a  new  vacation  house? 

And  fourthly,  I  have  a  husband  who 
happens  to  love  Home — spelled  just  that 
way,  with  a  capital  H — and  as  far  as  he's 
concerned,  two  homes  are  better  than  one! 

Added  to  all  these,  Durward  is  a  born 
fisherman,  although  he  got  part  of  his 
know-how  from  our  friend  Jack  Almy, 
who  with  his  wife  Ethel  Owen  (she  plays 
in  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton  on  radio)  have 
been  our  long-time  fishing  companions. 
We  can  sit  for  hours  and  hardly  say  a 
word,  pursuing  the  wily  bass  or  whatever 
comes  close  enough  to  our  lines.  Even 
Dennis  has  learned  to  stay  quiet  and  in- 
terested for  quite  long  periods  for  such  a 
little  boy. 

Our  kind  of  vacation,  then,  seemed  to 
be  rather  a  problem.  The  right  places  were 
hard  to  find,  and  expensive  when  we  did 
find  them.  Finally  we  decided  that  rather 
than  go  through  the  Where  shall  we  go  this 
year?  routine  for  even  one  more  season, 
we  would  find  our  own  lake  and  build 
a  shack.  A  shack,  did  I  say?  From  a 
plain  roof  and  walls  to  shelter  and  protect 
us  from  the  weather,  the  plans  gradually 
turned  into  a  house  with  pine -paneled  liv- 
ing room  and  hall,  a  combination  kitchen 
and  dining  room,  three  bedrooms  and 
baths — and   our  special  pride,   a  big   cut- 


stone  fireplace,  raised  sixteen  inches  from 
the  floor. 

We  had  frequently  passed  what  proved 
to  be  "our"  land  on  our  drives  up  into 
the  country,  and  we  began  to  wonder  if 
there  might  be  property  for  sale  there.  It 
was  900  feet  above  sea  level,  in  a  region 
of  Connecticut  lakes  and  woods,  pro- 
tected from  storms  by  the  surrounding 
mountains,  and  utterly  beautiful.  Durward 
began  to  make  inquiries  and  we  were  lucky 
to  get  four  acres,  plus  "riparian  rights" — 
to  the  thirty-acre  lake.     And  so  it  began. 

Until  late  summer  of  last  year,  while 
the  house  was  going  up,  we  spent  our 
weekends  living  in  two  small  guest 
houses  which  we  bought  and  trucked  up 
to  the  property.  We  toted  up  an  old 
boat,  and  began  to  enjoy  the  thrill  of  being 
campers  on  our  own  land.  Some  friends, 
the  Robert  Hannahs,  went  with  us  on  many 
weekends  with  their  lit'tle  boy  and  girl 
and  each  family  bunked  in  a  guest  house, 
our  Boy  Scouts  being  willing  to  settle  for 
a  tent,  with  their  sleeping  bags.  Durward's 
Navy  hammock  was  slung  between  our 
beds  for  Dennis,  and  he  loved  it. 

We  cooked  our  meals  over  a  campfire 
and  bathed  in  the  lake,  but  my  super-neat 
husband  always  got  us  back  home  early 
enough  on  Sundays  so  he  could  clean  up 
in  our  own  bathroom  and  go  to  church 
properly  groomed,  until  the  time  came 
at  last  when  we  got  some  plumbing  into 
the  lake  house. 

We  are  finishing  up  the  bathrooms  early 
this  spring  so  my  fastidious  menfolk  can 
take  their  time  about  showering  and 
grooming.  I  must  say  I  got  a  little  tired 
of  performing  my  morning  ablutions  in 
the  lake  and  wasn't  sorry,  either,  when 
that  necessity  was  over.  Our  guest  houses 
will  now  serve  as  a  place  where  visitors 
can  have  a  little  privacy — at  least  one 
house  will,  and  the  other  is  fated  to  be 
a  workshop  for  the  man  of  the  house, 
and  a  place  where  he  can  keep  his  tools. 

Durward  just  loves  tools.  He  has  great 
respect  for  the  jobs  they  can  do,  and  he 
handles  them  accordingly.  My  mother 
and  father  gave  him  a  chain  saw  for  his 
birthday  last  August,  and  each  time  he 
uses  it  he  returns  it  carefully  to  its  box. 
He's  a  great  box-saver,  anyhow.  Most  lit- 
tle boys  save  string,  I've  found  out,  but  I'm 
sure  that  my  husband  was  always  a  box- 
saver,  as  well.  "Let's  throw  out  that  car- 
ton," I'll  suggest,  when  something  is  de- 
livered and  removed  from  it.  Later,  I'll 
find  it  safely  stowed  away.  "We  might 
move  someday,"  is  his  explanation,  al- 
though we  have  no  intention  of  doing  it, 
at  least  not  for  a  long  time.  (I  must  admit 
that  some  of  those  saved  boxes  came  in 
very  handy  when  we  began  taking  things 
up  to  the  new  place.) 

Because  he  likes  to  work  with  his 
hands,  as  well  as  to  work  on  television  and 
radio — perhaps  because  one  is  a  complete 
change  from  the  other — my  husband  is  al- 
ways restless  when  he  has  to  stand  by  and 
watch  others  doing  the  things  he  would 
like  to  do.  When  the  masons  were  putting 
the  concrete  foundation  blocks  together, 
as  beautifully  as  if  it  were  a  work  of  art, 
Durward  was  champing  at  the  bit,  wanting 
to  pitch  in  and  help.  He  watched  the  car- 
penters and  the  plumber,  wanting  so  much 
to  have  all  their  know-how,  and  learning 
every  detail  for  future  projects  of  his 
own,  I'm  sure. 

Our  twelve-year-old  likes  projects,  too, 
and  has  a  simply  wonderful  one  of  his  own, 
a  tree  house  which  he  reaches  by  a  rope 
ladder,  a  la  Tarzan.  He  wants  a  canoe 
this  year,  a  bright  red  one,  and  hopes  to 
save  enough  money  for  it  by  the  time  sum- 
mer rolls  around  again.  At  first,  Durward 
and  I  felt  this  would  be  too  dangerous,  but 
Randy  is  a  responsible  boy  for  his  years 


and  he  handles  boats  extremely  well,  be- 
sides being  a  good  swimmer.  No  motor  or 
speedboats  are  allowed  on  our  lake,  so 
there  isn't  any  danger  of  that  kind.  When 
Durward  gets  the  speedboat  which  he 
looks  forward  to  owning  someday,  we  will 
have  to  dock  it  at  a  near-by  lake  where 
they're  allowed. 

Little  Dennis  is  a  born  sailor  and  could 
handle  a  rowboat  when  he  was  three.  Like 
his  daddy,  he  does  everything  neatly  and 
with  precision.  Durward  likes  the  boat  to 
be  docked  a  certain  way,  and  the  rope 
coiled  just  so,  but  Randy  and  I  can  never 
seem  to  remember  this.  Dennis,  who  had 
never  heard  Durward  giving  us  instruc- 
tions, simply  floored  us  one  day  by 
solemnly  unwinding  the  rope  from  a  tree 
and  carefully  coiling  it  exactly  as  he  had 
seen  his  daddy  do  it,  without  even  being 
asked.  To  Randy  and  me,  this  was  just 
a  piece  of  rope  to  tie  up  a  boat,  but  to 
Dennis  and  Durward  it  was  a  very  special 
rope  to  be  tied  in  a  very  special  way. 

In  most  things,  however,  Randy  longs 
to  be  like  Durward.  He  wants  to  be  on 
television,  and  he  dreams  of  being  a 
comedian.  He  would  quit  school  tomorrow 
if  we  would  let  him!  Durward  impresses 
him  with  the  importance  of  an  educa- 
tion and  the  difficulties  of  being  in  show 
business.  I  do  my  bit,  when  Randy  starts 
acting  a  little  "hammy,"  by  pointing  out 
that  his  father  is  a  quiet  and  somewhat 
retiring  man  who  never  does  any  acting 
except  when  he's  "on,"  and  that  no  one 
is  successful  who  looks  upon  show  busi- 
ness as  anything  but  a  regular  job  which 
has  to  be  worked  at  like  any  other  job. 
We  want  our  boys  to  remain  natural,  lead- 
ing normal  lives  without  too  many  respon- 
sibilities during  these  years  of  their  child- 
hood. When  they  are  old  enough,  they 
can  choose  whatever  they  want  to  do. 
Meanwhile,  we  like  having  them  close  to  us. 

We  take  them  to  the  country  auctions 
that  we  haunt  for  things  for  the  new 
house,  and  they  love  it.  Durward  picked 
up  a  Vermont  wagon  wheel,  wired  it  and 
put  on  electric  candles,  and  hung  it  from 
our  high  living-room  ceiling.  I  refinished 
and  finger-painted  an  old  rocker  so  that 
it  looks  as  fresh  as  the  day  it  was  made, 
yet  beautifully  old-fashioned.  We  found 
a  hutch  table  that  seats  eight,  and  our 
chairs  (which  I  re-upholstered)  were  a 
great  bargain.  Durward  wired  old  Kitchen 
Meissen  jars  for  lamp  bases,  and  refinished 
and  cut  down  an  old  dining  table  to  make 
a  lovely  coffee  table  for  the  living  room. 
An  old  buggy  seat  has  turned  into  a  set- 
tee. We  are  doing  our  own  wall-papering 
and  most  of  the  inside  finishing. 

Perhaps  you  can  understand  now  why 
I  don't  miss  my  old  life  in  radio.  When 
I  began,  as  Mary  Paxton  Young — and  when 
I  continued  after  my  marriage,  while  Dur- 
ward was  in  the  Navy — my  work  seemed 
important  to  me.  But  now  the  most  im- 
portant thing  in  my  fife  is  my  husband's 
happiness  and  his  continued  success,  and 
the  best  possible  childhood  for  our  boys. 
We  want  them  to  grow  up  to  be  good  men 
and  good  citizens,  and  to  have  the  kind  of 
happiness  that  we  have.  I  manage  to  keep 
working  at  a  few  projects  of  my  own.  I'm 
learning  ceramics,  and  hope  to  have  my 
own  kiln.     I  am  doing  some  writing. 

Durward  is  as  interested  in  what  I  do 
as  I  am  in  his  work,  and  we  have  many 
more  things  to  plan  together  and  to  work 
on  together  at  the  lake  this  year.  And 
a  lot  of  wonderful  days  to  look  forward 
to.  So,  come  spring,  if  you  watch  Durward 
on  TV  any  Friday  and  he  seems  to  get 
a  far-away  look  in  his  eyes  now  and  then, 
you  will  know  the  reason.  You  will 
know  it's  because  he  can  hardly  wait  to 
get  home  and  load  us  all  into  the  car 
and  head  for  our  lakeside  "shack." 


If  monthly  distress— pain,  cramps,  nervous  tension 
and  headache— get  you  down,  be  smart  and  try 

CHI-CHES-TERS 

If  you  don't  get  safe,  quick,  long-lasting  relief  we 
will  refund  your  money.  Fair  enough?  Get  Chi- 
Ches-Ters  and  compare  this  medically  proven,  pre- 
scription-like "wonder"  formula  with  any  other 
product  vou  have  used.  In  doctors'  tests  9  out  of 
10  women  got  relief— often  with  the  first  dose.  Why 
not  you?  Feel  gay  everv  day  with  Chi-Ches-Ters. 
Purse  Pak  50<*;  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and  $2.25. 
If  your  druggist  hasn't  any,  ask  him  to  get  some 
for  you— or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 
Free  Illustrated  Booklet  of  Intimate  Facts.  Write 
Chichester  Chemical  Co.,  Dept  16S  Phila.  46,  Pa. 


93 


94 


YoyCanPlay 


•  .  .  even  if  you  don't  know 
a  single  note  of  music  now/ 

IMAGINE!  Even  If  you  never  dreamed  you  could  play  .  .  . 
you  can  soon  surprise  your  friends  with  your  musical 
ability.  No  special  "talent"  or  previous  training  needed. 
Spend  Just  a  few  minutes  a  day — and  only  a  few  cents  per 
lesson.  Teach  yourself  to  play  piano,  guitar,  accordion, 
whatever  instrument  you  choose.  Make  amazingly  rapid 
progress  because  you  start  right  out  playinq  real  pieces 
by  note.  No  boring  exercises  to  do.  Over  900,000  people 
have  chosen  this  easy  home  study  method. 
(Our  57th   successful   year.) 

FREE  BOOK  shows  how  easily  you  can  learn 
music  this  modern  way.  Mail  coupon  for 
FREE  BOOK  to:  U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC, 
Studio  A-204,  port  Washington,  N.  Y. 

U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF   MUSIC, 

Studio  A-204,   Port  Washington,   N.  Y. 

Please    send    me    your    36-page    illustrated    Free    Book. 
I'm  interested  in  playing  (name  instrument) 


D  I  do 


D  I  do  NOT— have  instrument  now. 


Name 

Address.. 


(please  print) 


WANTED 

Men  &  Women  Everywhere  who  have  a  story 
to  tell.  No  writing  experience  necessary — just 
use  your  own  words.  Vast  TV  market  crying 
for  new  story  situations.  Yours  can  net  you 
$500  or  more.  Get  the  Facts. 

TV  WRITERS  GUILD 
2875C  Glendale  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  39,  Calif. 


4  How  to  Make  Money  with 
s?^  Simple  Cartoons'' 


,i     A  book  everyone  who  likes  to  draw 
jhould  have.  It  Is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 


[I 


REE 
BOOK 


l) 


ARTOONISTS1  EXCHANGE 
Dept.  594  Pleasant  Hill.  Ohio 


Earn  as  you  learn 


NURSING 


Train  quickly  at  home    f 

A  good  job  as  a  Practical  Nurse  is  waiting  for 
you  in  an  MD  office,  hospital  or  private  duty. 
Many  students  earn  up  to  $200  and  more  while 
in  training.  Course  written  by  doctors,  tested 
in  clinic.  Valuable  outfit  sent.  High  school  not 
needed.  Terms.  Matt  coupon.' 

GLENWOOD  CAREER  SCHOOLS 
7050  Glenwood  Ave.,  Chicago  26  Depl.    N15-4 


Name 

Addrest_ 


Age 


WWTE,  BREVITYPE  INSTITUTE,  SAN  DIEGO,  CALIF.,  DEPT.171 6 

LEARN  THE  WORLD'S  SIMPLEST, 
SPEEDIEST  SHORTHAND   NOW 

FREE— plcaso  send  me  typical  lessons,  details  on  Brevltypo— world's 
simplest,  speediest  shorthand — first  machine  shorthand  to  eliminate  coding. 
Tell  me  how  I  learn  Brevltypo  In  V,  tho  time  through  your  personally  guided 
home-study  course.  Show  me  how  switching  to  Brovltypo,  as  hundrods  have, 
prepares  me  tor  security  at  a  stenographer,  secretary,  court  or  hearing 
reporter  here,  and  abroad,  in  buslnoss  or  Civil  Service  — helps  me  Increase 
my  salary  50/.  to  100%.  Include  costs  and  budget  plans 


New  Patterns  for  You 


4769 — Juniors,  sew  this  for  flattery. 
The  halter  neckline  is  high  in  front — bare 
in  back.  Jr.  Miss  Sizes  11-17.  Size   13 
takes  4  yards  35-inch  fabric.  35<f 

9227 — Bared,  billowing,  beautiful.  See 
how   that  whirling   skirt   accentuates   your 
narrow   waist.   Misses'   Sizes    10-20.   Size    16 
takes  5  yards  35-inch;  *4  yard  contrast.  35$ 

9019 — Snappy-wrap — just   wrap   around, 
tie  waist.  Make  several  in  cool  cottons. 
Misses'  Sizes  12-20;   3042.  Size  16  takes 
4l/2  yards  35-inch  fabric.  35$ 


11  —  17 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to: 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR,  Pattern  Department, 
P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York. 


NAME 


ADDRESS 
CITY 


STATE 

Add  5c  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing. 


_J 


Feather  Your  Nest 


(Continued  from  page  53) 
You'll  find  additional  prizes  for  the  twenty- 
four  runners-up,  together  with  the  rules 
for  this  exciting  contest  game  on  pages  54 
and  55. 

Bud  Collyer  and  his  pretty  decorator 
assistant,  Janis  Carter,  anticipate  you'll 
enjoy  studying  the  pictures  to  select  the 
furniture  you  would  like  to  win.  Says  Bud, 
"I  can  just  see  some  hardworking  guy  de- 
ciding he  wants  that  big,  rugged  loafer 
chair  waiting  for  him  when  he  comes  home 
at  night.  He  can  take  it  from  me — I've  tried 
it — he's  got  man-sized  comfort  ahead." 

Janis  takes  a  strictly  feminine  view- 
point. "Won't  that  bedroom  be  exquisite 
for  a  pretty  young  wife?  And  the  dining 
room  would  be  the  perfect  setting  for  the 
hostess  who  takes  pride  in  being  a  good 
cook." 

Thinking  of  furnishings  in  relation  to 
the  people  who  will  use  them  is  the  key- 
note of  Feather  Your  Nest.  It  began,  in 
fact,  even  before  the  program  went  on 
the  air.  Red-haired,  dynamic  Jeff  Selden, 
the  producer  for  the  advertising  agency, 
William  Esty  Company,  and  The  Colgate- 
Palmolive  Company,  its  sponsors,  told  why. 

"Today's  living  dictated  the  form  our 
program  would  take.  Considering  the  num- 
ber who  have  built  new  houses  or  re- 
modelled old  ones,  we  couldn't  help  re- 
alizing that  peoole  are  centering  more  at- 
tention on  their  homes  than  they  ever 
have  before.  They  have  better  taste  and 
they  know  more  about  furniture,  acces- 
sories and  appliances.  Now  every  woman 
tries  her  hand  at  interior  decorating.  Men, 
too,  take  a  strong  interest  in  their  home 
furnishings." 

With  home  viewers  as  well  as  con- 
testants in  mind,  they  decided  they  would, 
each  day  before  the  cameras,  show  a  dif- 
ferent room,  comoletely  and  harmonious- 
ly furnished.  "Besides  having  the  fun  and 
excitement  of  a  quiz,"  said  Jeff  Selden, 
"we  wanted  to  provide  useful  decorating 
suggestions.  To  keep  them  completely 
practical,  we  use  no  experimental  nor 
custom-made  thines.  We  draw  our  fur- 
nishings and  arroliances  from  thirty  of 
America's  leading  manufacturers.  Any 
item  you  see  on  our  stage  can  be  bought  in 
local  department  stores  or  in  quality  shops, 
right  down  the  street." 

Contestants,  when  they  appear  on  the 
show,  "shop"  for  their  prizes,  choosing 
those  things  which  will  fit  into  their  own 
scheme  of  living.  An  engaged  couple,  a 
husband  and  wife,  a  mother  and  child,  or 
a  sister  and  brother  appear  together.  One 
member  of  the  team  answers  the  ques- 
tions. Each  correct  answer  wins  him  a 
feather  from  a  prop  bird  which  takes  ten 
seconds  to  "fly"  to  its  painted  nest.  The 
bird  makes  three  flights,  presenting  first 
red,  then  yellow,  then  green  feathers. 
These  feathers  become  the  legal  tender 
with  which  the  contestant's  partner  "buys" 
items  priced  with  feathers  of  the  same 
color.  Feathers  also  carry  a  point  value, 
and  piling  up  a  total  of  six  thousand  points 
entitles  the  team  to  try  for  the  jackpot — 
all  the  furniture,  accessories  and  appli- 
ances in  the  room. 

All  preparations  are  designed  to  help 
contestants  get  exactly  what  they  want. 
Members  of  the  studio  audience  fill  out 
cards  on  which  they  state  what  kind  of 
prizes  they  would  like,  what  category  of 
questions — sports,  books,  current  events, 
famous  people,  to  name  just  a  few — they 
know  most  about.  Finally,  they  tell  why 
they  would  like  the  prizes. 

These  cards  receive  careful  considera- 
tion from  Louise  Hammett,  assistant  to 
the    producer.    "Sometimes,"    Louise    ex- 


plains, "we  select  people  we  think  will  be 
good  contestants  and  then,  reading  further, 
we  see  that  they  would,  for  instance,  like 
traditional  bedroom  furnishings.  Perhaps 
on  that  day  we're  using  the  kitchen  set. 
We  then  ask  them  to  return  on  the  day 
we  do  display  the  things  they  want." 

For  such  a  program,  blonde,  charming 
Janis  Carter  has  proved  an  ideal  hostess. 
Interior  decorating  has,  for  her,  been  a 
strong  second  career  throughout  the  time 
she  has  worked  in  motion  pictures,  on  the 
stage,  or  in  television.  Says  Janis,  "I  can't 
recall  a  time  when  I  haven't  been  in- 
terested in  home  furnishings.  It  began 
during  my  childhood  in  Cleveland,  and  at 
Western  Reserve  University,  I  took  every 
art  course  I  could  get.  I've  always  kept  up 
my  study." 

Janis  entered  the  professional  decorator 
class  when  she  returned  to  New  York  from 
Hollywood  while  holding  a  motion  picture 
contract  which  still  had  eight  months  to 
run.  "Since  I  was  being  paid  by  the 
studio,"  she  explained,  "I  couldn't  accept 
any  other  show-business  job.  I  was  very 
pleased  when  a  friend  asked  me  to  plan  a 
new  apartment.  This  led  to  other  deco- 
rating commissions." 

Her  decorating  knowledge  serves  her 
well  on  Feather  Your  Nest.  Selden  com- 
mented, "Janis  is  never  content  to  rattle 
off  a  ready-made  description  of  an  article. 
Instead,  she  studies  every  bit  of  informa- 
tion a  manufacturer  supplies.  She  tests  ap- 
pliances and  carefully  examines  furniture 
and  accessories.  She's  particularly  well  in- 
formed about  wood  finishes.  When  she's 
ready  to  describe  a  piece,  she's  actually 
passing  on  to  the  viewer  her  own  well- 
considered  opinion  of  it." 

Such  sincerity  and  knowledge  have 
caught  the  attention  of  the  air  audiences. 
Frequently,  Janis  receives  letters  request- 
ing information  or  asking  advice  on  a 
decorating  problem.  She  strongly  believes 
rooms  should  suit  the  people  who  occupy 
them.  Since,  on  the  show,  furnishings 
vary,  Janis  reverses  the  rule  and  adapts 
herself  to  her  setting.  She  wears  clothes 
which  will  harmonize  with  the  type  of 
room  on  display. 

otar  Bud  Collyer  concentrates  on  the 
contestants,  their  experience  and  their 
needs.  "Talking  to  our  guests,"  says  Bud, 
"I  sometimes  feel  I'm  living  over  again 
each  step  of  my  own  romance  and  mar- 
riage. When  a  couple  of  youngsters  turn 
up  with  stars  in  their  eyes  and  wedding 
bells  in  their  future,  I  think  of  the  way 
Marian  and  I,  furnishing  our  first  apart- 
ment, assembled  the  usual  collection  of 
hand-me-downs  from  our  parents.  We 
also  turned  into  avid  window-shoppers. 
Applying  the  ideas  we  got  from  the  dis- 
plays, we  were  forever  making  over  things, 
painting   or   rearranging   our   rooms." 

The  next  stage,  Bud  defined  as,  "The 
one  where  fate  seems  against  your  getting 
that  particular  thing  you  vitally  need. 
Something  always  happens."  He  illus- 
trated: "With  us  it  was  new  beds.  We 
junked  the  hand-me-downs  just  before 
moving  to  a  new  apartment.  At  a  depart- 
ment-store sale,  we  bought  brand-new 
maple  ones  and  felt  real  proud  of  our- 
selves. Delivery  to  our  new  place  was 
timed  perfectly.  There  was  just  one  trouble 
— they  brought  only  the  headboards,  and 
footboards.  We  had  to  sleep  at  a  friend's 
house.  Several  days  and  frantic  phone 
calls  later,  the  springs  and  mattresses 
were  delivered.  But  for  some  strange 
reason,  the  delivery  men  also  had  an 
order,  'Pick  up  bedsteads.'  For  a  couple 
of  weeks,  we  wondered  if  we  ever  were 
going  to  sleep  comfortably  again." 


CUTICURA  helps 
clear  them  faster 


Makes  skin  softer, 
lovelier  in 


7 

DAYS 


See  baby-softness,  fresh- 
ness, natural  radiance 
return  as  hateful  black- 
heads, externally  caused 
pimples,  flaky  dryness, 
oily  shine  are  overcome- 
in  as  little  as  7  days. 

Only  Cuticura  does  so  much  for  your 

skin  because:   Cuticura  Soap— one  of 

the  mildest  of  all  soaps  by  laboratory 

test— alone  of  all  leading  soaps  is 

superfatted  and  mildly  medicated  to 

help  maintain  the  natural  moisture 

and  normal  acidity  of  the  skin.  And 

Cuticura  Ointment  softens  as  it  helps 

heal.  Get  Cuticura  today! 

FREE  Soap  sample  and  leaflet  on  right 

way  to  wash  your  face.         t^^~~^ 

Write  today  to  /®*^\ 

Cuticura,  Dept.  TS-45,        /6>«3&»\ 

Maiden  48,  Mass.  ' PARENTS/ 


CI  ^ 

uticura 


Earn  Extra  Money 

Work  3-5  hrs.  at  home  daily.  Up  to  $40  weekly 
possible.  Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B. 
Dunbar  Co.,  Dept.  TS-4,  4130  Mark  Terrace, 
Cleveland  28,   Ohio. 


Sore  Toes,  Tender  Spots 


Pain  Stops  in  SECONDS 

Dr.  Scholl's  Zino-pads  not  only 
stop  pain  at  its  source  .  .  .  remove  coma  one  of  the 
fastest  ways  known  to  medical  science  —  but  also 
stop  corns  before  they  develop.  No  other  method 
does  all  this.  Get  a  box  today!  Sold  everywhere. 


$<#%&& Scholfc  lino-pads 


95 


ENJOY  A   PERMANENT, 
\BIG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

a  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.  No  age  limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


Post  Graduate  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing 
9D4SB  Auditorium  Bldg. 
Chicago  5,  Illinois 


OUPqZ 


Name. . . 
Address. 
City 


I 

I 

.State | 


96 


NEW,  NATURAL  LIGHTWEIGHT 

DENTAL  PLATE 


MADE  FROM  YOUR  OLD  ON E-New. Professional 

Method  g;ives  yon  natural-looking;,  perf ect-fittingj  plastic 

Rlate — upper,  lower  or  partial— from  yoor  old  cracked  or 
>ose  plate  without  an  impression.  CLINICAL  method 
means  fast  service,  huge  savings.  Try  new  plate  fnll  80 
days  at  our  risk.  New  plates  sent  you  Air  Mail  same  day. 


uww 

*159-5 


CLINICAL  DENTAL  LAB.,335  W.  Madison  St.,0epl.  99-D.  Chicago 2,  III. 


MATERNITY 

Style  Book  fgEB 


NEW  Filth  Avenue  styles  keep 
you  smart  throughout  pregnancy. 
Adjust  easily.  Dresses  $2.98  up; 
also  supporters,  undies.  Every- 
thing for  Baby,  too.  Low  prices. 
FREE  Book  in  plain  wrapper. 
LANE  BRYANT,  Dept.  822 
.Indianapolis  17,  Indiana 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


■m 

^m  .  i  ■  Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 

I  tag  to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New 

I  Booklet— "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR. 

I  HOME   USE."   It  tells   about  Varicose 

W  M   H  Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 

^K  ^^^B  used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 

BBaUBsaaaani  success.  Praised  and  en-| 
dorsed  by  multitudes. 

LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., I 
Dept.  D-47,    Milwaukee   12,   Wisconsin, 


SUK"S  PSORIASIS 


(SCALY     SKIN     TROUBLE! 


MAKE  THE  ONE    ^PCRITtOIL 

spot^T 

TEST      /P™6 


u w  lonK  you  have  suffered 
rr  What  you  have  tried. 
Beautiful  book  on  psorl- 
;■■■:.  and  D«rmoil  with 
amazing  true  photo- 
Kr.iphic  proof  of  results 
sent  FREE.  Write  for  It 


SEND   FOR 

i GENEROUS 
J  TRIAL 
.SIZE    - 


Don't     mistake     eczema 
for    the    stubborn,    ugly 
embarrassing    scaly    skir 
disease     Psoriasis.      Ap- 
ply    non-staining 
moil.     Thousands     do     for 
acaly      ■pot!      "ii      Is.dy      0 
scalp.    Grateful    users  ofte 

alter     years     of     nuTerln 

report       the       scales       have 

four,    the    red    patches    gradually   dls-  ~~^^^"~ 

appeared  and  iiu-y  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  clear  skin 

f>emioii  is  used  hv  many  doctors  and  is  backed  by  a 

positive    agreement    to   tflve    dellnlte    benellt    In    •!    weeks    or 

i li  refunded  without  question,  send  lOc  (stamps  or  coin) 

roi  zeneroui  trial  bottle  to  make  our  famous  "One  Spot  Test." 

,|    for  yours. -If.   Krsults   may   surprise   you.   Write   today 

for    voor    test    bottle.    Caution:     Use    only    us    directed,     Print 

plainly.  Don't  delay.  Sold  by  Liggett  and  Walgreen  Drug 

stores  and   other   leading   Druggists.    LAKE    LABORATORIES, 

Box  3925,  Strathmoor  Station,  Dept.  9604.  Dotroit  27,  Mich. 


Families  who  are  eager  to  win  labor- 
saving  kitchen  appliances  also  provoke  a 
sympathetic  recollection  from  Bud.  "We 
were  in  that  stage  when  our  youngsters 
were  small,"  he  remembered.  "During 
that  period  the  rest  of  the  house  just  sort 
of  happened." 

The  need  for  a  better  integrated  plan 
came  when  they  bought  their  present 
Greenwich,  Connecticut,  place.  Said  Bud, 
"The  children  were  beginning  to  outgrow 
the  rough-house  age  and  take  notice  of 
their  surroundings.  We  have  had  a  lot  of 
fun  working  out  our  decorating  together. 
Marian  did  the  planning,  of  course,  but 
she  has  always  made  it  a  practice  to  take 
me  to  see  a  piece  of  furniture  before  buy- 
ing it.  We  all  talk  things  over  and  the  re- 
sult is  that  both  of  us,  and  the  children, 
too,  like  our  home  and  feel  it  belongs 
equally  to  all  of  us." 

Since  Feather  Your  Nest  has  the  same 
objective,  it  is  not  surprising  that  the 
winners  have  often  reported  their  prizes 
have  meant  more  to  them  than  merely 
filling  a  room  with  furniture. 

William  Canfield,  the  excited  young 
bachelor  (pictured  at  the  beginning  of  this 
story)  who  answered  the  jackpot  question 
and  won  a  complete  living  room  in  modern 
design,  insisted,  "It  makes  me  feel  like 
a  millionaire — on  a  schoolteacher's  salary." 
Mr.  Canfield's  partner  was  his  aunt,  Mrs. 
Grace  Hargreaves,  at  whose  home  he  had 
lived  since  coming  from  Oklahoma  six 
years  ago  to  take  his  master's  degree  at 
Columbia  University.  Last  summer,  when 
her  apartment  house  was  turned  into  a 
commercial  building,  they  were  evicted. 
The  new  apartment  Mrs.  Hargreaves  found 
was  too  small  to  provide  room  for  Mr. 
Canfield. 

He  reported,  "While  I  was  lucky  enough 
to  find  what  amounts  to  a  super-deluxe 
cold-water  flat — four  and  a  half  rooms 
and  two  fireplaces — I  didn't  own  a  stick 
of  furniture.  I  would  have  been  years 
getting  together  the  kind  of  living  room 
I  wanted.  Now  I'm  having  so  much  fun 
fixing  up  my  first  apartment  I've  turned 
practically  domestic.  I've  even  built  a 
room  divider.  I  never  felt  so  eligible  in 
my  life." 

Another  remodelling  job  which  was 
sparked  to  completion  occurred  when  Mrs. 
Lester  Olmsted  of  Newport,  New  York, 
won  the  show's  very  first  jackpot.  Spar- 
kling with  happiness,  she  told  about  it. 
"My  father  bought  this  big  old  house  sev- 
eral years  ago.  The  folks  took  the  first 
floor,  we  took  the  second.  Then  Les  and 
Dad  started  fixing  it  up.  They're  both 
pretty  good  at  the  do-it-yourself.  But  we 
never  did  finish  off  the  attic  to  make  an- 
other bedroom.  Our  little  girl  needed  some 
plastic   surgery   and   the   money   wouldn't 


stretch  to  cover  everything,"  she  said. 
But  the  project  got  a  new  start  when 
Mrs.  Olmsted's  answer  won  her  a  jackpot 
of  American  Traditional  furniture — a  bed, 
dresser,  vanity,  two  Windsor  chairs,  a 
ladder  back  chair,  seven  lamps  and  four 
blankets.  Work  started  immediately,  she 
said.  "We  knocked  down  a  wall  to  make 
a  nice  large  room  big  enough  to  accom- 
modate all  that  furniture.  We  painted  the 
walls  a  warm  gray  and  have  the  ceiling 
pale  pink  to  match  the  shades  of  my 
pretty  new  lamps.  We're  so  pleased  and 
all  our  friends  have  come  over  to  admire 
it.  Feather  Your  Nest  certainly  made  my 
trip  to  New  York  memorable." 

A  pretty  little  blue-eyed  eleven-year-old 
blonde  who  wants  to  be  a  doctor  when 
she  grows  up  is  another  of  those  made 
happy  by  a  Feather  Your  Nest  jackpot  of 
bedroom  furnishings  by  Drexel. 

Her  proud  mother,  Mrs.  E.  J.  Richard- 
son of  West  Englewood,  New  Jersey,  said, 
"Kathryn  Ann  had  a  special  reason  for 
wanting  it.  We  have  four  children  and 
Kathryn  Ann  has  been  begging  me  to  re- 
arrange sleeping  quarters  so  that  she  can 
share  a  room  with  Denise,  who  is  eight. 
Denise  suffers  from  a  mild  form  of  cerebral 
palsy  and  Kathryn  Ann  is  really  wonderful 
about  helping  with  the  corrective  therapy. 
She's  sure  that  if  they  have  a  room  of 
their  own,  she'll  be  able  to  teach  Denise 
more." 

It  was  on  a  holy  day,  when  classes  at 
St.  Anastasia's  school  were  in  recess  that 
Mrs.  Richardson  and  her  daughter  came 
to  New  York  on  a  shopping  trip  and  "just 
stopped  in  to  see  a  television  show."  The 
little  girl,  filling  out  her  card,  confided  in 
appealing  terms,  her  wish  for  a  lovely 
room.  Said  Mrs.  Richardson,  "Since  she 
wanted  it,  I  let  her  answer  the  questions. 
I  thought  it  was  so  nice  when  Bud  Coll- 
yer  stuck  to  topics  she  could  be  expected 
to  know — story-book  characters  and  his- 
toric events.  But  I  never  dreamed  she 
would  win  all  those  things.  It  was  really 
just  wonderful." 

For  all  the  contestants,  winning  prizes 
has  brought  a  thrill.  Now  a  similar  ex- 
perience awaits  the  TV  Radio  Mirror 
reader  who  wins  this  Feather  Your  Nest, 
Home  Edition,  contest.  It's  set  up  along 
the  same  lines  as  the  show.  First  you  an- 
swer questions  by  filling  out  the  crossword 
puzzle.  Next,  you  "shop"  by  studying  the 
color  photos  on  page  52  to  decide  which 
room  of  furniture  you'd  like  if  you  win. 
Finally,  in  fifty  words  or  less,  you  write 
why  you  want  it. 

Good  luck,  and  have  fun.  Someone  is 
going  to  win  the  fabulous  grand  prize — a 
full  room  of  fine  furniture  by  Drexel. 
Twenty-four  runners-up  will  win  the  ad- 
ditional prizes.  It  could  be  you! 


To  the  Heart's  Desire 


(Continued  from  page  33) 
the  Navy.  Later  on,  when  she  was  very 
broke  (and  she  was  often  very  broke),  she 
worked  on  a  swing  shift  that  made  pat- 
terns. She  also  served  time  as  a  hostess 
at  a  restaurant  in  New  York  .  .  .  sold  paint, 
wallpaper  and  bicycles  at  Montgomery- 
Ward's  in  Detroit  .  .  .  was  a  soda  jerk,  a 
bar  hostess  at  another  Manhattan  cafe 
("where  I  served  drinks,  and  walked  fifty 
miles  per  day,"  she  groans) .  Once,  when 
she  was  down  to  her  last  fifty-cent  piece, 
she  went  into  a  florist  shop  and  spent  the 
fifty  cents  on  a  Parrot  tulip. 

During  another  "broke"  period  in  New 
York,  she  went  down  to  Fourteenth  Street 
one  day,  to  buy  an  inexpensive  winter 
coat.  Emerging  from  the  subway,  she 
passed  an  art  gallery,  looked  in,  went  in — 
and  bought  a  painting  instead  of  a  coat! 


When  she  is  acting,  you're  liable  not  to 
recognize  her  from  one  day  to  the  next, 
for  Liz  dresses  to  suit  the  part  she's  play- 
ing on  the  air.  For  example,  when  she 
faces  the  mike  as  the  youthful  Marguerite 
on  This  Is  Nora  Drake,  over  CBS  Radio, 
she  wears  a  ballerina  skirt,  no  heels,  hair 
down.  As  Francie  Brent — a  young  woman 
about  Liz's  own  age  on  The  Road  Of  Life, 
over  CBS  Radio  and  CBS-TV— she  wears 
a  simple  suit  or  dress,  pencil-slim  skirt, 
high  heels,  hair  up.  As  Elsa  Lockwood — 
"who  has  some  youngness,"  Liz  says,  "and 
some  maturity" — in  The  Right  To  Happi- 
ness, over  NBC  Radio,  she  wears  what- 
ever comes  to  hand. 

"The  reason  I  dress  to  suit  the  parts  I 
play  on  radio,"  she  explains,  "is  because 
radio  takes  more  imagination  than  either 
the  theater  or  television.     In  the  theater 


and  on  TV,  you  use  your  whole  self.  On 
radio,  you  use  only  your  voice  and  you 
have  to  visualize  yourself — who  you  are, 
what  you're  all  about." 

Liz,  admittedly,  is  superstitious.  "Espe- 
cially about  these  earrings,"  she  says,  fin- 
gering the  crystal  drops  at  her  ears.  "My 
mother  gave  them  to  me.  They're  mus- 
tard seeds,  for  faith.  If  you  look  closely, 
there's  a  tiny  yellow  mustard  seed  em- 
bedded in  each  one.  The  Bible  tells  us 
that,  if  we  have  faith  even  as  small  as  a 
mustard  seed,  nothing  is  impossible  to  us — 
and  we  shall  grow  like  the  mustard  seed. 
I  wear  these  earrings  always,  practically 
never  take  them  off,  even  when  I  go  to 
bed,"  Liz  says,  "because  I  want  to  grow. 

"I've  other  superstitions,  too.  I  believe 
things  go  in  threes.  They  do,  for  me.  For 
instance,  my  three  running  parts  in  Nora 
Drake,  Road  Of  Life,  and  Right  To  Happi- 
ness. Also,  I'd  read  for  parts  in  two 
Broadway  plays  before — on  the  third  try — 
I  read  for  and  got  the  part  as  Geraldine 
Page's  understudy  in  'The  Rainmaker.' 

"I  always  kiss  a  flat — you  know,  part  of 
the  scenery,"  Liz  laughs  at  herself,  "just 
before  I  go  on  stage  or  before  the  mike. 
But  I  didn't,  the  afternoon  I  went  on  and 
played  the  matinee  for  Geraldine,  when 
she  was  ill — because  I  was  so  wnnervous. 
And  I  was  unnervous  because  Lizzie,  in 
'The  Rainmaker,'  is  the  kind  of  part  I  like 
to  do,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  do,  next." 

When  it  comes  to  acting,  which  is  her 
whole  life — and  her  only  love — there  is 
only  one  word  for  Elizabeth:  Dedicated. 
The  amount  of  leg-work  she  has  done  in 
furtherance  of  her  career  would  dismay 
a  centipede.  The  amount  of  studying  she 
has  done,  and  is  still  doing,  is  fantastic — 
and  formidable.  As  dedicated  as  she  is, 
it's  amazing  that  she  made  so  many  de- 
tours before  blazing  the  trail  to  her 
heart's  desire. 

"As  a  very  tiny  child,"  Liz  says,  "I  knew 
what  I  wanted  to  do  and  be.  A  child's 
instincts  are  uncomplicated,  and  true. 
Mine  were.  It  was  later  on  that,  for  a 
time,  I  went  astray.  .  .  ." 

Born  September  6,  1922,  in  Huntington, 
West  Virginia,  Elizabeth  made  her  first 
stage  appearance  at  the  age  of  three — as 
an  angel  in  a  Christmas  pageant.  With 
cheesecloth  wings  pinned  to  her  shoulders 
and  attached  to  her  fingertips,  she  flapped 
and  floated  and  sang  "Away  in  a  Manger." 
It  was  a  school  play  and,  before  appearing 
in  it,  Elizabeth  remembers  taking  lessons 
from  a  local  singing  teacher. 

When  Elizabeth  was  four,  the  family 
moved  from  West  Virginia  to  Detroit. 

"The  move  took  place,"  Liz  says,  amused, 
"right  after  my  Great  Success.  I  some- 
times suspect  they  ran  me  out  of  town! 

"In  Detroit,  they  had  a  contest  in  school 
for  the  fifth-graders  to  write  a  play,  with 
the  winner's  play  to  be  presented.  I  won 
almost  by  default — since,  as  I  recall  it, 
only  two  plays  were  submitted. 

"If  you  can  blame  anything,  or  anyone 
but  yourself,  for  losing  sight  of  your  goal," 
Liz  grins,  "I  can  blame  animals  for  losing 
sight  of  mine.  I  was  always  crazy  about 
animals.  Every  time  my  mother  wanted 
to  do  the  laundry,  she  had  to  empty  the 
tub  of  snails,  snakes,  turtles,  frogs  and 
other  livestock  I'd  brought  home.  In- 
stead of  reading  about  Little  Women,  as  a 
kid,  I  read  Black  Beauty,  Smoky,  The 
Biscuit  Eaters,  The  Yearling  (nearly  died 
over  that  one!)  and  every  book  I  could 
find  about  dogs — especially  dogs  in  the 
Arctic  .  .  .  one  of  my  dreams  was  that, 
someday,  I  would  go  to  the  Arctic  and 
have  a  team  of  sled  dogs.  ...  In  addition 
to  the  tenants  of  the  tub,  I  also  brought 
home  every  stray  cat  or  dog  that  crossed 
my  path.  When  I  was  eight  or  so,  I  an- 
nounced to  my  family  that  I  was  going  to 
be  a  'cat  nurse!' 


"By  the  time  I  was  ready  for  the  uni- 
versity— for  which  I  had  a  scholarship — 
I'd  discarded  the  idea  of  being  a  'cat  nurse,' 
in  favor  of  becoming  a  Healer  of  Mankind. 
I  understood  there  was  a  scarcity  of  lab- 
oratory technicians  and  wanted  to  take  a 
lab  technician  course,  but  they  didn't  have 
one  at  Michigan,  so  I  took  pre-med  .  .  . 
its  chief  value  to  me  now  is  the  psychology 
courses  we  had.  I  find  that  working  with 
the  human  brain,  as  we  did,"  Liz  grins, 
"helps  on  radio  and  TV! 

"Meanwhile,  I'd  seen  my  first  legitimate 
show — 'Hamlet,'  with  Maurice  Evans — and 
was  so  spellbound  that,  after  the  matinee, 
I  went  into  the  ladies'  room  and  waited 
until  the  evening  performance,  which  I 
watched  from  the  stairway.  That  same 
week,  I  saw  the  play  again  five  times.  It 
was  as  though  I  couldn't  get  enough  of  it. 
I  should  have  known  then.  I  don't  know 
why  I  didn't  .  .  .  but  I  didn't.  Not  until  my 
junior  year  did  I  change  from  pre-med. 
Then  I  took  some  speech  courses,  includ- 
ing one  in  radio,  at  the  end  of  which  I 
was  told  that  maybe  I  could  be  an  actress, 
but  not  on  radiol 

"At  the  end  of  my  junior  year,  I  was  so 
confused  about  what  I  wanted  to  do — hang 
out  my  shingle  as  an  M.D.  or  hitch  my 
wagon  to  a  star — that  I  decided  the  only 
thing  to  do  was  nothing.  Nothing,  that  is, 
in  either  field  .  .  .  just  get  away,  get  some 
perspective.  So,  at  the  end  of  the  semester, 
I  joined  the  Navy!  That  was  May,  1943. 

"First  stationed  in  Atlanta,  Georgia,  I 
taught  navigation.  They  gave  us  aptitude 
tests,"  Liz  explains,  "and,  though  I  never 
suspected  it,  I  had  a  high  mechanical  apti- 
tude. I  taught  radio  navigation  first.  Then 
I  was  assigned  to  Link-trainer  mainte- 
nance. For  a  time,  I  also  worked  as  an 
aviation  mechanic  on  real  planes.  We  had 
to  service  the  instruments,  install  them, 
then  sign  out  the  plane — after  which  the 
responsibility  for  what  happened  to  it  was 
ours.  Never  in  the  theater  has  anything 
come  near  to  being  so  nervous-making  for 
me  as  when  I  waited,  nearly  dying,  until 
the  plane  got  back! 

"From  Atlanta,  I  went  to  Quonset  Point, 
Rhode  Island,  assigned  to  'celestial  naviga- 
tion.' Here,  too,  I  did  Link-trainer — this 
time,  celestial  Link-trainer — maintenance. 
Over  the  plane — which  was  housed  in  a 
silo  sixty  feet  high — there  was  a  big  dome, 
free  to  move,  patterned  with  the  constel- 
lations. It  gave  you  an  other-world  feel- 
ing, as  of  being  part  of  the  planetary  sys- 
tem, the  heavens,  close  to  the  stars.  .  .  . 
Yet,  in  charting  celestial  courses,  I  some- 
how— and  truly — began  to  chart  my  own. 

Often,  at  Quonset,  we'd  hitch  plane 
rides  to  New  York.  Usually,  we  flew  in  a 
TBF,  a  Torpedo  (and  I  usually  sat  in  the 
bombardier's  'bubble'!).  And  always,  while 
in  New  York,  I'd  cram  in  two  shows  a 
day,  matinee  and  evening  performances — 
feeling,  as  I  did  when  I  saw  'Hamlet'  five 
times  in  one  week,  that  I  couldn't  get 
enough  of  it  .  .  .  which  reminds  me  that  I 
also  saw  Laurence  Olivier  (my  first  real 
idol,  as  such)  in  'Oedipus'  and  'The  Critic' 
seven  times. 

"From  Quonset  I  was  sent  to  Pensacola, 
Florida,  where  I  was  to  see  the  end  of  the 
war — and  the  end,"  Liz  smiles,  "of  my 
search  for  myself.  For,  in  a  local  paper,  I 
spotted  an  inch-high  item  stating  that  au- 
ditions were  being  held  at  the  Pensacola 
Little  Theater.  On  my  first  day  off,  I  sped 
into  town,  found  the  theater,  went  in  .  .  . 
and,  the  moment  I  saw  the  stage,  it  was 
like  coming  home.    Then  I  knew. 

"At  the  Little  Theater,  the  first  part  I 
read  for  was  that  of  Essie  in  'You  Can't 
Take  It  with  You.'  I  got  it — whereupon  a 
stupid  but  painful  casualty  befell  me.  For 
the  ballet  number  I  was  called  upon  to  do, 
as  Essie,  Mother  sent  me  a  pair  of  hard- 
toe    ballet   slippers,    the    toes    of   which    I 


IF  YOU  SUFFER 


PAIN 


get 


of  HEADACHE 
NEURALGIA 
NEURITIS 


with 


the  way  thousands  of 

physicians  and  dentists  recommend. 

HERE'S  WHY  .  .  .  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's 
prescription.  That  is,  Anacin  contains  not 
just  one  but  a  combination  of  medically 
proved  active  ingredients.  No  other  product 
gives  faster,  longer-lasting  relief  from  pain 
of  headache,  neuralgia,  neuritis  than  Anacin 
tablets.  Buy  Anacin®  today  I 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 


A  few  drops  of  OTJTGHO®  bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  Ingrown  nail.  OUTGRO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OUTGRO  is  available  at  all  drug  countera. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Findt  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrink*  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

Now  this  new  healing  substance  is  offered 
in  ointment  form  under  the  name  of 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  stores 
-money  back  guarantee.  *»eB- u- s  Pat- off- 


1120 


MOVIE  &  TV  STAR 

PICTURES 


EXCITING!  All  your  favor- 
ices.  Newest  intimate  oflguard  t 
photos.  Professional  wallet  size  I 
—  suitable  for  framing.  Holly- " 
wood's  Biggest  Offer!  Hurry! 
ORDER  SEVERAL  FOR 
GIFTS  WHILE  THEY  LAST! 
■  ■■■■  with   your  order! 

tUhH  GIFT  <»o«h  ?'<>  - 
I  flLL!  ADDRESSES,  plus  other  REVEAL- 
ING INFORMATION  of  100s  OTHER  TOP 
STARS.  Also  GIANT  NEW  CATALOG  contain- 
ing  ADDITIONAL  HUNDREDS  OF  PHOTOS 
AND  NAMES  of  Newest  Stars-all  U  SENT  FREE 
WITH  YOUR  ORDER  if  you  act  now! 
HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STAR  CENTER 

STUDIO  L-4.  BOX  2309,  HOUVWOOD  M.  CAIIF. 


MONUMENTS 


FREE  CATALOG-MONUMENTS  FROM  $14.95 

Monuments  of  rare  beauty  and  artistic  perfection 
are  now  sold  by  mail  at  astounding  savings.  All 
carving,  polishing  and  finishing  operations  are  done 
in  the  modern  Rockdale  plant.  Exclusive  sale  by 
mail  direct  to  the  consumer  guarantee  lowest  prices. 
Prices  include  inscription  and  Rockdale  pays  the 
freight.  Write  today  for  FREE  illustrated  catalog  of 
over  50  monuments.  No  obligation. 
Ko<-kdalcMoiiumeiitCompiuiyJ>ept.900,Joliet,Ill. 


Thrilling  New  Massage  Cream 
Contains  PC-11.  Acts  Instantly  to 

DRY  UP  SKIN 
BLEMISHES 

From  Both  Oily  Skin  and 
External  Causes! 

Have  you  tried  in  vain  to  get  rid 
of  oily  pimples,  "hickies,"  other 
|  externally  caused  skin  blemishes  ? 
■k  \  bk  >r  r  Well,  you  never  had  PC-11  be- 
n  '%,W^/\  fore!  That's  POMPEIAN'S  name 
Wok.  IHK  ^  for  Hexachlorophene.  Wonder- 
ful discovery  of  science  helps  dry  up  such  skin 
blemishes!  Acts  instantly  to  clean  out  dirt,  helps 
remove  blackheads  like  magic!  Goes  on  face  pink — 
rolls  off  muddy  gray! 

GENEROUS  TRIAL  TUBE— 10  CENTS! 
Send  name,  address   and   10  cents  to  POMPEIAN 
CORP.,  Dept.  R-4,   Baltimore  24,  Md.  (Offer  good 
only  in  U.S.)  Or  get  Pompeian  Mas- 
sage Cream  at  any  drug  store. 


12  NEW  TOWELS  °-T° 

LARGE  SIZE!  Assorted  colors.  New!  Not  seconds.  Non- 
woven  COTTON  and  BATON.  Money- back  guarantee.  Sup- 
ply limited.  Order  Nowl  HOMEMAKERS,  Dept.  505, 
304  E.  32nd  St.,  N.  Y.  C.  16. 


SHORTHAND® 


Famous  SPEEDWRITEMG  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols;  no  machines. 
Uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn,  write,  tran- 
scribe. Lowest  cost,  250,000  taught  by 
mail.  Typing  available.  32nd  Year.  Write 
for  FREE  booklet  to: 


DESTROY/^Zff 


'  Only  by  KILLING  THE  HAIR  ROOT  can  you  be  l 
'  UNWANTED  HAIR  Is  GONE  FOREVER.  Brings  relief  J 
r  and  social  happiness.  Do  not  use  our  method  until  J 
'  you  have  read  our  instruction  book  carefully  and  J 
J  learned  to  use  the  MAHLER  METHOD  safely  and  J 
f  efficiently.  Used  successfully  over  fifty  years. 


Send  ScT0DAY  for  bookiet  O 


MAHLER'S.  INC      Dept.  59-0         PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I. 


MAGNETIC  POT  HOLDERS 

Place  these  quilted  magnetic  pot  holders  flat  against 
any  metal  surface  (stove,  refrigerator,  metal  cabi- 
nets, etc.).  Presto!  They  "stay  put" — ready  and 
handy  to  use  .  .  .  flip  them  back  against  the  metal 
— and  they  stay  in  place  ...  as  decorative  as 
they  are  usefui  .  .  .  tiny  magnets  are  invisible  and 
will  last  forever  .  .  .  washable  and  rust  proof  .  ■  . 
no  modern  kitchen  should  be  without  them  .  .  • 
makes  a  stunning  gift  .  .  .  Order  yours  NOW!  We 
pay  postage! 

Send  cash   or  money  order. 

"TWIN   KITTENS"   only  $1.25  a  pair 

WORLD    WIDE,    63    Central    Ave..    Ossining,    N.    Y. 

I  enclose  $....  for  ....   "Twin   Kittens"  Pot  Holders. 


YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAP 

.-■H.ltlMHH 

(S.  D.)*  As  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  users  have  learned, 
Siroil  tends  to  remove  psoriasis 
crusts  and  scales  on  outer 
layer  of  skin.  Light  applica- 
tions help  control  recurring 
lesions.  Siroil  doesn't  stain 
clothing  or  bed  linens. 
Offered  on  two-wceks-satis- 
faction-or-moncy-refunded 
basis.  22  years  of  successful 
results. 

Write    for    free    booklet. 
*S.  D.  means  Skin  Disorder. 


98 


SIROIL 


AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES 

Siroil  laboratories  Inc..  Dept.  M-76,  Santa  Monica.  Calif. 


should  have  stuffed  with  cotton — but 
didn't.  Result:  When  I  took  them  off,  I 
also  took  off  part  of  my  toes!  Add  idiocy: 
I  then  poured  iodine  on  the  wounded 
members  and  burned  them  to  the  bone!" 

Following  Essie,  Elizabeth  played  the 
part  of  Birdie  in  "The  Little  Foxes,"  sup- 
porting roles  in  "George  Washington  Slept 
Here"  and  "Snafu,"  the  lead  in  "Claudia." 

"Since  every  role  I  played — except 
Birdie — was  that  of  a  girl  who  got  preg- 
nant," Liz  laughs,  "at  the  end  of  my  last 
performance,  the  company  presented  me 
with  a  bouquet  of  Gerber's  baby  foods — 
and  a  bunch  of  carrots  'for  my  health.' 

"Less  humorously — but  more  valuably — 
out  of  the  twelve  'Oscars'  the  Little 
Theater  awards  each  year,  I  got  five! 

"It  was  a  fruitful  experience,  and  it  was 
also  a  flogging.  We  were  based  forty  miles 
out  of  town  .  .  .  which  meant  that,  when 
doing  a  play,  I  traveled  eighty  miles  a  day 
by  bus.  The  busses,  pretty  rickety,  were 
also  prone  to  breaking  down  and,  when  I 
got  back  to  the  base  after  an  evening  per- 
formance, I  often  had  to  stand  watch.  A 
local  reporter  wrote  an  article  about  me 
in  which  he  figured  that  I'd  traveled,  be- 
tween the  theater  and  the  base,  literally 
thousands  of  miles.    I  had,  indeed! 

"But — 'worth  it?'  Oh,"  says  Liz,  lights  in 
her  eyes,  "it  wasl  I  can't  tell  you  how 
grateful  I  am  to  the  Pensacola  Players.  If 
it  weren't  for  those  wonderful  people,  I 
might  be  dissecting  rabbits  still." 

On  December  24,  1945,  Liz  got  out  of 
uniform,  made  it  home  in  time  for  Christ- 
mas, then — after  a  brief  rest — "I  was  in 
the  city,"  she  says,  "and  began  to  make 
the  rounds,  'round  and  'round  and  'round, 
and  got  nowhere.  Yes,  it's  as  grim  as  you 
hear  it  is.  Day  after  day  after  day,  you 
check  in  at  casting  offices,  agents'  offices. 
And,  day  after  day,  you  hear:  'Nothing, 
nothing,  nothing' — until  you'd  take  an 
oath  that  the  word  nothing  is  the  only 
word  in  the  English  language!  Still,  you 
keep  going  back,  hoping  to  get  your  face 
remembered.     It  doesn't   work   that  way. 

"One  night,  I  went  to  see  'Dark  of  the 
Moon,'  in  which  the  late  Richard  Hart  was 
playing  the  lead.  Reading  his  biography 
in  the  theater  program,  I  learned  that  he'd 
got  this  part — his  first — as  soon  as  he'd 
graduated  from  dramatic  school.  After  the 
show,  I  went  backstage,  met  Richard,  asked 
him  where  he'd  gone  to  school,  and  he  told 
me  Tamara  Daykarhanova's  School  for 
the  Stage. 

"Then  I  saw  Marlon  Brando  in  'I  Re- 
member Mama,'  went  backstage,  met  Mar- 
lon, and  he  suggested  the  Neighborhood 
Playhouse  or  Stella  Adler  at  the  New 
School." 

lilizabeth  decided  on  the  School  for  the 
Stage,  enrolled  in  early  1946 — and  then 
began  a  most  arduous  apprenticeship.  She 
studied  with  Daykarhanova  for  two  years. 
In  the  summer  of  1946,  she  went  back  to 
the  University  of  Michigan  to  get  her 
Bachelor  of  Arts  degree  in  speech.  In  the 
summer  of  '47,  she  did  summer  stock  at 
the  Putnam  County  Playhouse,  joined 
Actor's  Equity,  and  stayed  on  as  resident 
leading  lady  up  to  and  including  the  sum- 
mer of  '53.  "Although,  the  last  two  years, 
I  was  only  'jobbing,' "  Liz  points  out, 
"meaning  that  I  was  brought  in  for  one 
show  a  season." 

In  the  fall  of  '47,  she  went  to  work  at 
the  Riverside  Community  House  in  New 
York,  where  she  taught  dramatics  to 
youngsters  between  the  ages  of  seven  and 
fourteen.  "I  taught  at  the  House,"  says 
Liz,  "for  about  five  years.  Lived  there. 
Room  was  part  of  my  pay,  which  assured 
a  roof  overhead.    Not  a  bad  feeling!" 

She  studied  at  the  American  Theater 
Wing,  where  all  the  pupils  have  to  be  pro- 
fessionals. Always  going  to  school — "on  my 
GI   Bill   of   Rights!"   Liz   explains,   with   a 


twinkle — she  studied  voice,  the  dance 
(both  modern  and  ballet),  period  acting, 
Ibsen  with  Eva  Le  Gallienne,  Shakespeare 
with  Margaret  Webster  and  Dorothy  Sands, 
modern  acting  with  Joseph  Kramm,  who 
wrote  "The  Shrike."  She  also,  and  contin- 
uously, studied  radio  and  television  .  .  . 
and  is  still  studying.  "I  believe  in  study- 
ing," Liz  says  soberly.  "I've  got  a  lot  to 
learn.  I'll  always  have  a  lot  to  learn.  And, 
the  more  I  learn,  the  higher  and  wider — 
and  deeper — I  can  go!" 

When  she  wasn't  in  school,  she  was 
working — on  TV,  on  the  road. 

On  the  Nancy  Craig  show  over  ABC -TV, 
she  played  Juliet  to  Kort  Falkenburg's 
Romeo.  "At  the  Wing,  we'd  put  on  a  pro- 
duction of  'Romeo  and  Juliet,' "  Liz  recalls, 
"and,  on  the  Nancy  Craig  show,  we  were 
supposed  to  be  shining  examples  of  what 
the  Wing  was  doing.  Judging  from  the  re- 
action we  got,  we  rather  thought  we  did 
shine!    Nothing  came  of  it." 

She  played  Laura  in  a  summer  stock 
production  of  "The  Glass  Menagerie."  She 
read  for  parts  in  Broadway  shows  and  for 
road  companies,  and  got  the  title  role  in 
a  road  company  of  "The  Heiress." 

In  the  winter  of  1950,  things  began  to 
be  bad  for  Liz.  "Real  bad,"  she  says.  "I 
had  a  very  bleak  year,  during  which  I 
'played  my  engagements' — or  most  of  them 
— as  soda  jerk,  bar  hostess,  and  so  on. 
Then,  at  the  beginning  of  1951,  fortune  at 
last  took  a  turn,  took  the  turn  in  my  favor. 
Another  of  my  superstitions,  by  the  way, 
concerns  time  .  .  .  that  either  it  is  your 
time — 'The  moment  is  now' — or  it  isn't. 

"That  winter  of  '51  was  my  time.  I'd 
been  thinking  seriously  of  going  back  to 
Michigan  to  get  a  teacher's  certificate.  In- 
stead, I  took  a  course  at  the  Theater  Wing 
— under  Arthur  Hanna,  bless  him — in  Be- 
ginning Radio.  Took  that  particular  course 
absolutely  on  a  fluke,  it  being  the  only  one 
open  at  the  time  .  .  .  also,  .more  men  than 
women  were  enrolled,  so  Mr.  Hanna  let 
me  in.  A  fluke,  but  a  blessed  one,  for  the 
very  good  reason  that  Arthur  Hanna  is  the 
director  of  Nora  Drakel 

"While  I  was  still  in  beginners'  class, 
Mr.  Hanna  had  me  read  for  Marguerite 
and,  almost  at  once,  he  gave  me  the  part. 
My  first  running  part,  which — also  almost 
at  once,"  Liz  groans,  "I  almost  lost!  It 
wasn't  quite  as  stupid  of  me  as  it  sounds 
.  .  .  for,  at  that  time,  the  part  of  Marguerite 
was  supposed  to  be  a  very  short  one,  soon 
to  be  written  out  of  the  script.  I  did  it  a 
few  times,  then  it  didn't  come  in  again  and, 
I  assumed,  wouldn't.  So  thinking,  I  signed 
to  go  on  the  road  as  Luba,  the  Kim  Hunter 
part,  in  'Darkness  at  Noon.'  But  when,  in 
passing,  I  mentioned  to  Mr.  Hanna  that  I 
was  going  on  the  road,  he  said:  'What  are 
you  going  to  do  about  your  part  on  Nora 
Drake   when   it   comes  in   again?' 

"  'Comes  in  again?'  I  echoed,  in  hollow 
tones,  'Why  didn't  you  tell  me?' 

"There  are  really  no  people  like  show 
people,"  Liz  says  gratefully.  "When  Mr. 
Hanna  said  he  would  wire  me  as  soon  as 
the  part  came  in  again,  Stanley  Woolf — the 
producer  of  'Darkness  at  Noon' — assured 
me  that,  if  or  when  it  did,  he  would  release 
me  from  my  contract  without  the  custom- 
ary two  weeks'  notice.  It  came  in  again," 
Liz  laughs,  "while  we  were  in  Coffeeville, 
Kansas!  But  the  wire  from  Mr.  Hanna 
missed  me  there,  didn't  catch  up  with  me 
until  we  were  playing  Providence,  Rhode 
Island.  I  then  wired  him — with  all  ten 
fingers  crossed — 'Shall  I  come  back?'  The 
answer  was  a  brief  'Yes.'  But  when,  hav- 
ing played  our  last  date  in  Providence,  I 
returned  to  New  York,  the  part  had  come 
and  gone! 

"It  was  then  that  I  wailed  my  first  wail. 
'Five  more  months  on  the  road  I've  given 
up,'  I  said,  fighting  tears,  'and  here  I  am!' 
To    which     Arthur    Hanna     replied— and 


again,  bless  him — 'Don't  worry.  Now  that 
you're  back,  you'll  work.'  And  so  I  soon 
did.  In  about  three  weeks,  Marguerite 
came  in  again,  got  involved  in  the  murder 
of  Peg  Martinson,  went  to  live  with  Nora 
Drake.  And,"  Liz  laughs,  "although  Nora 
has  since  married  and  I  don't  live  with 
her  any  more,  I  go  back,  I  go  back!  Mean- 
while, I'm  still  'in,'  and  happy  to  be. 

"After  I  started  doing  the  Nora  Drake 
show  again,  I  also  started  making  the 
rounds  again — principally  radio  rounds, 
since  this  was  the  only  medium  of  which 
I  could  say:  'You  can  hear  me  on — '  And 
this  way,"  Liz  laughs,  "it  does  work!  Also, 
so  many  young  voices  had  deserted  radio 
for  TV  that  I  came  along  at  just  the  right 
time.  I  did  one-shots,  a  lot  of  them.  .  .  . 
True  Detective,  Mystery  Hall,  True  Story, 
Whispering  Streets.  ...  I  did  a  three- 
week  sequence,  playing  a  trained  nurse,  on 
Aunt  Jenny.  I  also  did  quite  a  bit  of  TV, 
on  Studio  One,  The  Aldrich  Family,  the 
Philco  Playhouse.  .  .  . 

"Then  I  did  a  competitive  audition  for 
The  Right  To  Happiness  and,  happily,  got 
the  part  of  Elsa  Lockwood.  I  also  did  a 
competitive  for  the  part  of  Francie  in  The 
Road  Of  Life,  which  I  didn't  think  I'd  get. 
I'd  never  played  a  part — not  a  running 
part,  that  is — of  my  own  age.  I'd  always 
played  rather  unhappy  parts,  too.  This  is 
a  girl,  a  sort  of  young  Shirley  Booth,  who 
knows  what  she  wants  and  how  to  get  it. 
I  like  to  think,"  Liz  laughs,  "that  I'm  learn- 
ing, from  Francie,  to  do  the  same! 

"Since  I'd  say  the  thing  I  can  sell  best 
on  radio  is  sincerity,  it  follows  that  I  have 
to  really  understand  the  motivation  of 
each  character  I  play.  I  believe  I  do  un- 
derstand all  three  of  these  .  .  .  the  young 
Marguerite,  who  was  a  poor,  defenseless 
little  thing  but  is  now  showing  a  little 
spunk  .  .  .  Elsa,  a  nice,  young  wife,  eager 
and  loyal  and  unfailingly  helpful  to  her 
husband  .  .  .  and  Francie,  who  is  more 
complex  and  deeper — and,  therefore,  very 
much  a  challenge. 

"Since  I  understand  all  three  of  my 
running  parts,  I  love  'em,"  Liz  says.  "I  love 
radio,  and  am  most  grateful  both  for  it 
and  to  it.  Not  only  for  the  challenge  it 
offers — now  that  it  is  turning  more  and 
more  to  genuine  acting,  instead  of  the 
tricks  to  which  it  used  to  resort — but  also 
because  of  the  help  it  has  been  to  me  with 
'cold'  readings  (when  you  don't  see  the 
script  before  you  read)    for  the  stage.    It 


has  also  relieved  me,  at  least  in  great 
measure,  of  the  one  and  only  fear  I've  ever 
had — the  fear  of  not  working. 

"Now  that  I'm  so  busy,  with  radio  and 
TV  and  the  theater,  I  don't  seem  to  have 
much  of  a  personal  life,"  Liz  says,  unre- 
sentfully.  "I  do  have  some  personal  hob- 
bies. I  collect  records,  have  about  one 
hundred  albums — chamber  music,  mostly, 
and  Bach.  I  work  with  the  Veterans  Hos- 
pital Radio  Guild.  I  love  to  garden,  and 
spend  a  weekend  with  my  parents,  when- 
ever I  can,  at  their  home  in  near-by  West- 
chester, weeding  and  raking. 

"And  oh,  I  love  my  apartment!  When  I 
moved  in,  it  was  just  a  shambles.  Now, 
with  my  own  hands,  I've  knocked  out  a 
fireplace  that  had  been  bricked  up,  and 
have  put  in  a  Franklin  stove  which  is  both 
quaint  and  cozy.  I've  pulled  out  the  in- 
door shutters  which  were  jammed  into 
the  wall  and  have  painted  them  black.  I've 
built  window  seats  for  my  records — 
'mechanical  aptitude,'  remember? — and  the 
bathtub,  which  is  in  the  kitchen,  is  now 
all  boxed  up  so  you  don't  know  it's  a  tub! 

"I've  painted  the  living-room  floor  black, 
on  which  the  Bokhara  rug  my  family  gave 
me  spills  all  its  lovely  colors.  The  walls 
are  red — Monterrey  red,  or  so  it  says  on 
the  can  of  paint  I  used.  The  draperies  are 
gray.  The  slipcover  for  the  studio  couch 
is  red  and  black,  and  I've  a  very  old  hutch 
table  and  a  love  of  a  Windsor  rocker, 
equally  old.  My  bedroom  is  all  green  and 
yellow,  like  a  summer  field.  Cold-water 
flat  though  it  is,  and  a  walk-up — all  the 
way  up — I  love  the  place. 

"All  of  us  on  the  top  floor  are  actors  or 
in  some  way  connected  with  show  busi- 
ness. Charles  Carruth,  for  one,  who  was 
an  actor  but  is  now  assistant  director  to 
Wynn  Wright  on  radio.  Lilija  Austrin,  an 
actress  on  TV.  Jeff  Manning- is  on  TV.  We 
spill  over  into  each  other's  apartments, 
can  go  in  and  out,  any  day,  and  borrow 
each  other's  ice  cubes,  sugar,  et  cetera. 

"I'm  not  in  love — no,  not  even  dating 
heavily.  I  want  to  be  married  and  have 
children,  of  course  I  do.  But,  at  the  mo- 
ment, my  goal  is  just  to  keep  working  in 
the  theater — any  part  of  it.  And  my  most 
soaring  ambition  is  to  be  so  much  in  the 
theater  that  they  can't  cut  me  out! 

"At  the  moment,  in  other  words,  my 
heart  belongs  to  the  theater.  And  the 
theater,"  Liz  says,  with  that  light  in  her 
eyes,  "is  where  my  heart  belongs." 


"Make  Up  Your  Mind" 


(Continued  from  page  62) 
on  the  show.    Remember  what  was  said." 

It  was  just  that  week  that  the  experts 
on  Make  Up  Your  Mind  .had  said  it  isn't 
enough  to  drive  safely  .  .  .  you  must  also 
protect  yourself  from  the  dangerous 
driver  .  .  .  the  one  who,  by  his  own  dis- 
courtesy and  carelessness,  provokes  you 
into  anger. 

Recalling  the  incident — and  the  coinci- 
dence—Art says:  "It's  so.  Jan  and  I  are 
two  of  the  best' customers  of  my  show.  It 
doesn't  surprise  me  at  all,  when  I  find  Jan 
quoting  the  show  back  at  me." 

Arthur  Henley  is  one  of  the  most  un- 
surprised and  unusual  young  men  in  New 
York.  He  says  that  he  has  been  at  cross- 
purposes  with  himself  most  of  his  life. 
For  example,  Janet  isn't  the  type  of  gal 
he  "goes  for"  or  had  intended  to  marry 
.  .  .  but  he  loves  her  as  every  wife  would 
be  proud  to  be  cherished.  He  wasn't  mad 
for  kids  .  .  .  but  he's  crazy  about  the  two 
he  has.  He  doesn't  care  much  for  his 
furniture  .  .  .  but  finds  it  so  comfortable 
that  he  has  to  be  blasted  out  of  his  home. 
He  has  been  a  comedy  writer  for  Kate 
Smith,  Jackie  Gleason,  Eddie  Cantor,  Paul 


Winchell,  Duffy's  Tavern  and  others  .  .  . 
so  now  he's  producing  a  panel  show  which 
handles  rather  serious  subjects. 

"I  had  a  point  to  prove,"  he  says.  "I 
said  you  could  do  a  show  that  talked 
about  important  things — and  still  be  en- 
tertaining and  hold  a  big  audience." 

When  he  tried  to  sell  the  idea,  most  of 
the  VIP's  looked  around  to  see  if  there 
was  a  man  in  a  white  jacket  carrying  Art's 
antenna.  But  Art  succeeded  in  selling  the 
show  to  Continental  Baking  Company,  and 
he  is  doing  the  show  just  as  he  outlined 
it.  His  panelists  are  noted  for  brains,  wit 
and  experience,  and  the  program's  psy- 
chologists are  tops  in  their  field.  His  pro- 
gram is  as  educational  as  any  Peabody 
Award  winner,  yet  it  is  entertaining  and 
has  a  happy  sponsor.  As  extra-special 
proof  of  its  popularity,  Make  Up  Your 
Mind  gets  ten  thousand  letters  a  week. 
In  other  words,  Art  gave  show  business  the 
business — but  what  the  business  has  done 
to  him  is  something  else  again. 

"It's  a  matter  of  time,"  says  Janet  Hen- 
ley. "He  doesn't  have  enough  of  it  for  his 
home." 

Art  starts  off  the  day  at  a  normal  hour, 


your  hair  needs  LOVALON 


For  gayer,  brighter,  more  colorful 
looking  hair,  be  sure  to  use  LOVALON 
after  each  shampoo.  Lovalon  removes 
dull  film,  blends  in  off  color  or  gray- 
ing streaks  and  softens  the  appear- 
ance of  dyed  hair.  Not  a  permanent 
dye,  not  a  bleach  —  Lovalon  is  a  rinse 
made  in  12  hair 
shades.  Select] 
the  shade  fori 
your  coloring. 

10?:  for  2  rinses 
250  for  6  rinses 


FREE    KIT 

Out  FREE  subscription  sales  kit  helps  you  earn 
money.  Write  for  it  today:  TV  RADIO  MIRROR, 
205  E.  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y. 


pUS'to  enlarged 


Same  price  for  full  length  pictures,  busts  and 
groups.  Your  original  photo  returned  with 
enlargements.  Give  color  of  eyes,  hair  and 
clothes.  Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snapshot 
regardless  of  size.  Send  cash  or  money  order. 
We  pay  postage. 

FRAMED    PHOTO    SERVICE,    Dept.  56 
135  W.  41st  Street,  N.  Y.  C.  36.   N.  Y. 


Permanent  Coloring1 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 


SWIMPROOF'  One  application  lasts 
i  to  5  weeks'  Qui  ?  1  si  year. 


$1.00  (plus   lax)  of  /coding 
drug  and  dep't.  stores 

Send  TODAY     Q  Q 
for  TRIAL  SIZE  ZjOC 


"DARK-EYES"  Depl.   P-45 
3319  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24. 


Check  Shade:  D  Black       D  Browo 


Address  - 
,  Town 


.J 


99 


waking  about  seven-thirty  and  leaving 
home  slightly  before  nine.  But  he  never 
gets  back  before  seven  and,  most  evenings, 
he  is  later.  And  there  are  some  weekends 
he  doesn't  work. 

"I  go  directly  to  the  studio  in  the  morn- 
ing. From  there,  I  go  to  a  luncheon — and 
that's  always  business,  so  I'm  lucky  to  get 
into  my  office  for  the  first  time  by  two- 
thirty  or  three.  Well,  I  can't  get  all  my 
work  done  by  five." 

The  Henleys  have  a  four-room  apart- 
ment in  Forest  Hills,  on  Long  Island. 

"It's  furnished  in  French  Provincial  with 
— like  'hamburgers  with,' "  says  Janet. 
"Besides  the  Provincial,  there  is  some 
Chinese  Modern — our  coffee  table — and  a 
walnut   piano   in    so-called    'Traditional.' " 

Art  plays  the  piano.  Black  keys  only, 
but  he  plays  everything  from  Beethoven 
to  "singing  jingles"  (some  of  which  he 
wrote) . 

Janet  picked  most  of  the  furnishings 
for  the  apartment,  except  for  the  bedroom, 
where  Art  insisted  on  dark  woods.  Janet 
thinks  it  is  too  dark,  too  masculine. 

Eric's  room  has  drapes  and  a  spread  in 
an  Indian  motif,  two-toned  walls  and  a 
floor  covered  with  linoleum,  plus  blocks, 
balls,  toy  trucks  and  cars,  and  trains. 

"Art  is  mechanically  inclined,"  Janet 
says.  "He's  quite  eager  about  chores 
around  the  house — cements  tiles  back  into 
place,  keeps  cans  of  paint  around  for  re- 
touching the  kitchen  and  bathroom  walls, 
and  fixes  up  lamps  and  sockets." 

She  thinks  that  Art  is  serious,  strong 
and  quite  decisive.  "There's  nothing  slow 
about  Art  making  up  his  mind,"  she  says. 
"We've  been  lucky  that  way  about  kids, 
too.  When  we  made  up  our  minds  to 
have  them,  we  did — except  that  the  stork 
didn't  seem  to  give  a  hang  what  Art  de- 
cided about  the  sex!" 

A  few  weeks  before  this  past  Christmas, 
the  stork  (or  Santa  Claus)  brought  the 
Henleys  another  baby  boy,  whom  they 
have  named  Kenneth.  They  had  been 
hoping  for  a  girl,  just  for  variety. 

"Of  course,  what  this  means,"  says 
Janet,  "what  another  boy  means,  is  that 
maybe  we  will  have  a  girl  the  next  time." 

1  hey  are  not,  at  the  moment,  planning 
for  another  baby.  The  Henleys  make  very 
few  plans,  for  they  have  little  time  to 
themselves.  They  have  been  married  al- 
most five  years  but  have  had  no  honey- 
moon. There  was  one  vacation  (four  days 
in  Florida  last  winter)  and  that  was  on 
a  doctor's  orders.  Each  summer,  however, 
Janet  and  Eric  go  to  Rockaway  Beach  and 
Art  commutes  to  the  studio. 

Rockaway  is  more  than  a  beach  town. 
It's  a  regular  community,  a  suburb  of 
New  York  City,  and  it  was  there  that  Art 
was  born  and  raised.  His  father  was  a 
salesman  in  New  York.  Art  was  an  only 
child,  and  his  mother  thought  he  was 
quite  a  talented  performer.  "I  hated  it," 
Art  recalls.  "I'm  an  introvert.  I  used  to 
get  sick  every  time  I  had  to  recite  a 
poem.  There  was  that — and  the  vinegar." 
Art  blisters  easily  in  the  sun  and  that's 
not  so  good,  when  you  live  in  a  beach 
town.  Throughout  his  childhood,  he 
went  about  in  a  vinegar-soaked  shirt. 

In    high     school,     he    majored     in     the 
sciences.     He  wanted  to  be  a  chemist — to 
find  out  what  makes  things  happen.     His 
mother,    on    the    other    hand,    thought    he 
looked  enough  like  Eddie  Cantor  to  play 
Eddie  as  a  child,  for  the  movies.    She  took 
Arthur  into  New  York  to  audition.    Hap- 
pily, he  flunked  it. 
T         Art  began  to  write  in  high  school.     He 
„      tried   a  lot  of  things — novels,   epic  poems 
n      and  plays,  the  way  a  kid  will — but  he  also 
made  pocket  money  selling  fillers   to  the 
city    papers.      Then,    just    before    gradua- 
tion, he  won  a  Scholastic  Magazine  award 


for  a  radio  script.  With  this  incentive,  he 
continued  to  write  in  college  and  sold  a 
few  things  free-lance.  When  he  left  school, 
he  was  signed  up  to  write  Garry  Moore's 
early  program,  Everything  Goes. 

Radio,  Art  discovered,  was  an  eighteen- 
hour-day  job.  Sometimes  he  was  doing 
two  or  more  shows  at  a  time.  For  thirty- 
nine  weeks,  he  wrote  and  produced  five 
fifteen-minute  TV  shows  for  Frances 
Langford  and  Don  Ameche — plus  writing 
45  pages  of  "ad  libs"  for  another  show. 

He  met  a  girl,  got  engaged  and,  after 
five  years,  discovered  that  only  one  of 
them  was  going  steady.  He  broke  the  en- 
gagement, got  his  ring  back — and  devel- 
oped an  ulcer.  Art  was  an  unhappy  young 
man  until  he  met  Jan. 

A  friend  had  told  him  about  her:  "Good 
looker,  lots  of  personality,  the  kind  you 
get  serious  about."  Matter  of  fact,  the 
friend  was  feeling  halfway  serious  and 
asked  Art  if  he  wouldn't  give  him  an  ap- 
praisal. Art  agreed  but  warned  that,  if 
he  liked  Jan,  he  might  ask  her  for  a  date. 

"The  first  day  we  met,  I  told  her  that 
I  loved  her.  The  second  day,  she  met  my 
family.    A  week  later,  we  were  engaged." 

That  was  in  September  of  1949.  A  few 
months  later,  his  ulcer  was  gone.  The 
following  June,  they  were  married.  Art 
was  then  doing  an  evening  radio  show 
that  originated  in  the  Press  Box  restau- 
rant. It  was  an  interview  program  and 
Art,  himself,  grilled  various  celebrities. 
During  the  same  period,  he  was  also  head 
waiter  for  Broadway  Open  House. 

"Jan  and  I  were  married  between  shows. 
We  spent  our  honeymoon  twenty  blocks 
away  in  a  Manhattan  hotel." 

It  was  a  peculiar  kind  of  honeymoon. 
Art  worked  until  midnight,  so  Janet  had 
dinner  at  home,  as  usual,  with  her  mother. 

"The  neighbors  didn't  get  it,"  Janet  re- 
calls. "They  felt  sorry  for  me.  So  did  I — 
until  I  got  used  to  being  a  wife  and  ac- 
cepted the  fact  that  I  had  a  husband  who 
worked  late." 

Janet  is  an  attractive  brunette  who 
stands  an  easy  five  foot,  eight  in  heels. 

"I'm  a  hard  five-eight,"  says  Art.  "Un- 
less she's  barefoot,  I  have  to  stretch  to 
kiss  her.    It's  good  exercise." 

They  are  opposites  in  many  ways  and 
find  it  interesting  always,  fun  sometimes 
— and,  once  in  a  while,  very  aggravating. 
When  they  were  first  married,  Art  got  up 
feeling  cheerful;  Jan  awoke  feeling  lousy. 

"My  family  was  like  that,"  she  says. 
"In  my  home,  no  one  speaks  for  the  first 
hour  in  the  morning.  No  one  says  any- 
thing. If  you  want  the  toast  passed,  you 
grunt  once."  She  goes  on,  "I  stayed  at 
Art's  home  several  different  nights  before 
we  were  married.  His  family  was  the  ex- 
act opposite.  Art  and  his  parents  woke  up 
whistling,  played  the  phonograph  and  made 
jokes.     I  thought  they  were   crazy." 

Now,  after  years  of  a  good  marriage,  Jan 
has  made  the  adjustment.  She  wakes  up 
cheerfully.  That's  the  truth,  and  so  is 
this:  Art,  once  an  A.M.  joy  boy,  now 
wakes  up  feeling  miserable.  Part  of  the 
cause  may  be  that  little  Eric,  as  an  in- 
fant,  suffered   with   colic   for   six   months. 

"The  doctor  would  prescribe  pheno- 
barbital,"  Art  says,  "for  us." 

Eric  has  grown  into  quite  a  buster.  At 
three,  he  can  (if  not  restrained)  down  a 
frankfurter  with  a  side  order  of  French 
fries,  a  Coke,  and  half  a  hamburger — 
all  without  a  burp.  He  has  inherited  his 
appetite,  for  Art  loves  food  and  will  spend 
a  weekend  driving  a  few  hundred  miles  to 
sample  food  at  a  good  restaurant.  For 
Jan,  however,  this  has  created  no  great 
problem  in  the  kitchen. 

"Luckily,  Art  likes  quantity,  too,"  she 
says,  "so  what  I  can't  give  him  in  quality 
I  make  up  for  in  size." 


Art  says  Jan  is  a  fine  cook,  but  he  pre- 
fers to  go  out  for  their  fancy  meals.  It 
means  less  work  for  Jan.  That's  one 
reason.  The  other  reason  is  that  eating  is 
more  fun  than  dancing. 

"My  feet  stick  to  the  floor,"  he  says.  "It 
makes  me  feel  guilty,  since  Jan  is  really  a 
wonderful  dancer." 

It's  just  a  continuation  of  their  con- 
trasting personalities:  She  would  like  to 
get  dressed  up  and  go  dancing,  he  prefers 
to  drive  down  to  Gastric  Gulch  for  a 
twelve-course  dinner;  he  likes  to  read,  she 
likes  to  visit;  he  likes  things  to  be  neat 
and  orderly — but  she  doesn't  get  much 
kick  out  of  picking  his  things  off  the  floor. 

They  have  found  that  some  of  the  ques- 
tions asked  on  Make  Up  Your  Mind  ap- 
ply to  their  home.  For  example,  Jan 
doesn't  think  much  of  Art's  taste  in 
clothes  and  gifts.  Many  women  have 
written  about  similar  problems.  The 
question  boiled  down  to  this:  "If  your  hus- 
band gives  you  a  gift  you  don't  like,  do 
you  keep  it,  anyway — or  tell  him  and  ask 
if  you  can  exchange  it — or  exchange  it 
without  his  knowledge?" 

"The  last  time  it  happened  to  me,"  Jan- 
et says,  "I  was  lucky.  The  present  was  a 
pair  of  earrings,  and  I  didn't  like  them. 
But  Art's  mother  was  in  the  room  and,  be- 
fore I  had  time  to  open  my  mouth,  she  said, 
'They  are  too  small  for  Jan.  They'll  have 
to  be  exchanged.' " 

TLhe  Henleys  have  never  had  serious  "in- 
law trouble,"  but  there  have  been  discus- 
sions, on  Make  Up  Your  Mind,  of  minor 
in-law  situations  which  have  also  occurred 
in  the  Henley  household. 

"Now,  you  take  Eric  and  his  grand- 
mothers," Art  points  out.  "Suppose  they 
are  all  together  in  the  same  room,  and  he 
kicks  one — just  one — grandmother.  Well, 
someone  asked  about  that  in  the  mail. 
What  do  you  do  to  the  child — or  the  grand- 
mother?" Arthur  grins  and  goes  on,  "Well, 
in  my  case,  I  might  secretly  wish  that  he'd 
kicked  the  other  grandmother,  too,  so 
that  it  would  come  out  even.  But  if  he 
doesn't  and  if  you  stop  to  talk  about  it, 
the  kick  may  be  considered  flattering.  He 
may  be  miffed  with  one  grandmother  sim- 
ply because  she  isn't  giving  him  enough 
attention." 

Art  owns  up  that,  since  the  show  has 
been  on  the  air,  he  does  a  lot  more  think- 
ing and  analyzing  of  his  own  problems. 
"You  learn,  too,  that  there  are  three 
answers  to  every  problem:  Yes,  no  and 
maybe.  It  makes  you  a  lot  more  tolerant 
of  people  and  their  ideas." 

This  holds  true  in  his  own  home,  where 
he  and  Jan  often  differ.  Yet  they  confer 
almost  daily  on  his  work.  He  discusses 
new  ideas  with  her.  Often,  he  will  give 
her  a  script  to  read  and  criticize. 

"I'm  flattered  about  the  talks,"  Jan  says, 
"but,  even  though  Art  respects  what  I 
have  to  say,  he  is  still  impatient.  I'm  the 
one  who  is  always  hearing,  'Now,  make 
up  your  mind.'  But  I  can't  decide  as 
quickly  as  Art." 

"There's  a  biological  difference,"  Art 
says.  "A  man  gives  a  woman  a  chance 
to  make  up  her  mind." 

There  was  the  question  of  shower  cur- 
tains— a  slight  difference  of  opinion  about 
the  color,  pattern  and  material.  So  Janet 
went  shopping  and  bought  what  she 
wanted — but  with  brains.  At  home,  she 
told  about  the  shopping,  discussed  the 
exorbitant  price  for  the  shower  curtains 
that  Arthur  wanted,  and  then  told  of  the 
wonderful  buy  she  had  found. 

"By  that  time,"  she  says,  "there  was  no 
argument  left.  He  was  in  a  kind  of  happy 
daze  about  not  getting  what  he  wanted." 

"That's  the  difference,"  Art  grins.  "A 
woman  doesn't  say,  'Make  up  your  mind, 
honey.'     She  makes  it  up  for  you."  j 


•    Now,  a  new  gentleness  .  .  .  undreamed-of  comfort  .  . 
the  luxury  of  a  fabric  covering  that's 
soft  as  a  whisper.  Yours  with  New  Design  Modess. 


That  frory  Look 

Young  America  has  it...  You  can  have  it  in  7 days i 


Babies  have  That  Ivory  Look  .  .  .  you  can,  too! 
The  milder  the  beauty  soap,  the  prettier  your 
complexion.  And  Ivory  is  mild  enough  for  a 
baby's  skin.  Why,  more  doctors  advise  Ivory  for 
baby's  skin — and  yours — than  any  other  soap. 


That  Ivory  Look  for  you  just  7  days  from  now! 
Picture  your  complexion  looking  fresher, clearer, 
younger.  Picture  you  with  That  Ivory  Look!  It 
happens  in  only  7  days,  when  you  start  cleansing 
yourskin  regularly  and  use  pure,  mild  Ivory  Soap. 


99&t%pure 

...it  floats 


More  doctors  advise  Ivory  than  any  other  soap 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


IDIO  MIRROR'S  N.Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 
AY 


GEORGE  GOBEL 


PECIAL  AWARDS  ISSUE 

YOUR  FAVORITE  STARS  and  SHOWS  by  NATIONWIDE  VOTE 


- 


(Y^- 


V,  ou  lfV-4?  ^^  «^~Ae,J3 


y  i  L 


WONDERFUL  NEW  EASY- TO-DO  PIN- CURL  PERMANENT 


.  .  .  aM  qCKA/'tkat  d&)dn 


"l^ 


In  hairdos,  today's  look  is  the  soft  look,  and  Procter  &  Gamble's  wonderful 
new  pin-curl  home  permanent  is  especially  designed  to  give  it  to  you.  A 
PIN-IT  wave  is  soft  and  lovely  as  a  pin-curl  set,  never  tight  and  kinky.  PIN-IT 
is  so  wonderfully  different.  There's  no  strong  ammonia  odor  while  you 
use  it  or  left  in  your  hair  afterwards.  It's  easy  on  your  hair,  too,  so  you 
can  use  it  more  often.  And  PIN-IT  is  far  easier  to  give.  You  can  do  it  all 
by  yourself.  Just  put  your  hair  up  in  pin  curls  and  apply  PIN-IT's  Waving 
Lotion.  Later,  rinse  and  let  dry.  With  self-neutralizing  PIN-IT,  you  get 
waves  and  curls  where  you  want  them  ...  no  resetting  needed  ...  a 
permanent  and  a  set  in  one  step.  For  a  wave  that  looks  soft  and  lovely 
from  the  very  first  day  and  lasts  weeks  and  weeks— tiy  PIN-IT! 


plua  taa 


tU-il 


&  GAMBLE 


.  .  .-{oA-~tk^  CU*ALs?ptJOWud«MiMA- 


Ot*oa  r  ft  u 


Hook  -ft*  ikiM.  -ike,  mwh ^oWr-fbit 


Here's  Why  Listerine  Stops 
Bad  Breath  4  Times  Better  Than 

Tooth  Paste ! 


LISTERINE  ACTS  ON  3  AREAS  WHERE  BREATH  ODORS  CAN  START 


Look 

at  these 

actual  test 

results 


LISTERINE    TOOTH  PASTE 


LISTERINE     TOOTH  PASTE 


Germs— The  Major  Cause  of  Mouth  Odor 

Far   and  away 
the  most  com- 
mon cause  of 
bad  breath  is 
fermentation, 
caused     by 
germs,  of  proteins  which  are  always  present 
in  the  mouth.  Research  shows  that  your 
breath  stays  sweeter  longer,  the  more  you 
reduce  germs  in  the  mouth. 


Listerine  Antiseptic  Kills  Germs  by  Millions 

Listerine  Antiseptic  kills  germs  by  millions 
on  contact.  Test  after  test  has  shown  that 
even  fifteen  minutes  after  gargling  with 
Listerine  Antiseptic,  germs  on  tooth,  mouth, 
and  throat  surfaces  were  reduced  up  to 
96.7%;  one  hour  afterward,  as  much  as  80%. 


No  Tooth  Paste  Kills  Germs  Like  This 
. . .  Instantly 

Tooth  paste  with  the  aid  of  a  tooth  brush  is 
an  effective  method  of  oral  hygiene.  But  no 
tooth  paste  gives  you  the  proven  Listerine 
Antiseptic  method — banishing  bad  breath 
with  super-efficient  germ -killing  action.  As  a 
result,  Listerine  stops  bad  breath  instantly, 
usually  for  hours  on  end.  No  tooth  paste- 
offers  proof  like  this  of  killing  germs  that 
cause  bad  breath. 


LISTERINE 
ANTISEPTIC 

, . .  the  most  widely 

used  antiseptic 

in  the  world 


MEW! 

DOCTOR'S 
DEODORANT 
DISCOVERY 

Safely  stops  odor 
24  hours  a  day! 


PROVED  IN  UNDERARM  COMPARISON 
TESTS  MADE  BY  A  DOCTOR 

•  Deodorant  without  M-3,  tested  under 
one  arm,  stopped  perspiration  odor  only 
a  few  hours. 

•  New  Mum  with  M-3,  tested  under 
other  arm,  stopped  odor  a  full  24  hours. 


New  Mum  with  M-3 

won't  irritate  normal  skin 

or  damage  fabrics 

1.  *  Exclusive  deodorant  based  originally  on 
doctor's  discovery,  now  contains  long-lasting 
M-S  ( Ilexachlorophene). 

2.  Stops  odor  all  day  long  because  invisible 
M-3  dings  to  your  skin— keeps  on  destroying 
odor  bacteria  a  full  24  hours. 

3.  Non-irritating  to  normal  skin.  Use  it  daily. 
Onlfi  leading  deodorant  containing  no  strong 
chemical  astringents  — will  not  block  pores. 

4.  Won't  rot  or  discolor  fabrics— certified  by 
American  Institute  of  Laundering. 

5.  Delicate  new  fragrance.  Creamier  texture- 
New  Mum  won't  dry  out  in  the  jar. 

NEW  MUM 

cream  deodorant 
with  long- 
lasting  M-3 

(lltXACIILOHOl'MKNE) 
ANOTHER   FINE   PRODUCT  OF   DRISTOL-M VERS 


MAY,  1955 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


VOL.  43,  NO.  6 


N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


people  on  the  air 


Lux  Radio  Theater  Wins  Again! 4 

This  .  .  .  [s  Edward  R.  Murrow 6 

True  to  Himself  (Mel  Allen) 8 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  13 

Out  of  the  Shadow    (Bob  Crosby) 14 

Sincerely  Yours  (Douglas  Edwards) 18 

Behind  the  Story  (Bill  Stern) 30 

The  Greatest  Talent  Scout  of  All  (Arthur  Godfrey )  ....by  Martin  Cohen  38 

Jack  Benny— Man  or  Myth? by  Fredda  Dudley  Balling  46 

The  Ed  Sullivan  Story by  Gregory  Merwin  48 

Blessing  in   Disguise    (Liberace) 50 

Why  They  Remember  Mama  (Peggy  Wood) by  Lilla  Anderson  51 

Fine  and  Dan-Dan-Dandy  (Jackie  Gleason) by  Frances  Kish  52 

Here's  George  Gobel 54 

"Equal  Rights" by  Harriet  Hilliard  Nelson  55 

Garry  Moore's  Got  It! by  Helen  Bolstad  56 

Sergeant  Friday  Speaks  (Jack  Webb) by  Bud  Goode 

Wanted :  Mr.  And  Mrs.  North  (Barbara  Britton  and  Richard  Denning) 

by  Gordon  Budge 

A  Song  from  His  Heart  (Eddie  Fisher) by  Mary  Temple 

The  Folks  at  Home  (who's  who  on  your  favorite  TV  women's  program) 

All  Play,  No  Work  (Bill  Cullen) by  Roberta  Owen 

A  Laugh  in  Time   (Art  Linkletter) 67 

Eternal  Miracle  (Eve  Arden) .' by  Gladys  Hall  68 

Answer  to  Prayer  (Roy  Rogers) 70 

Thanks,  Pardner!    (Gene  Autry) 71 

"Q."  is  for  Quality  (Robert  Q.  Lewis) by  Ed  Meyerson  72 

Long  Live  the  Queen!    (Jack  Bailey) 74 

Fibber  and  Molly — and  Family  (Jim  and  Marian  Jordan) 75 


features  in  full  color 


TV  Radio  Mirror  Award  Winners  for  1954-55 33 

Loretta  Young — at  Heart by  Dee  Phillips  40 

Party  Girl,  Home  Girl  (Martha  Raye) by  Philip  Chapman  42 

Search  For  Tomorrow  (short-short  story  from  your  favorite  TV 

daytime  drama) 44 


your  special  services 


Information    Booth • j* 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 16 

Steve    Allen's   Turntable 22 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 28 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings) ^ 

TV    Program   Highlights 82 

Cover  portrait  of  Marion  Marlowe  by  Ozzie  Sweet 


m 


PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  by  Macfadden  Publications.    Inc.,  New 
York,    N.    Y. 

EXECUTIVE.      ADVERTISING     AND     EDITORIAL     OFFICES     at 
5o'7   r::.^t     12nd    Street,    New    York,    N.    Y.    Editorial    Branch 

Ollici  ".21     .South     Hi-     ''       •■••.     "eveily    Mills.     Calif.,     and 

221    North   I -I  Sail.-  SI  reel.  Chicago,   111.    Irvine  S.    Maiiholnier, 
ht;      Lee     Andrews,     Vice     President;     Meyer     Dworkln, 

g, .,.,.,. i;, rji    i Treasurer.   Advertising   otucos   also   in   Chicago 

San  FrancHco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  S3. 00  one  year,  U.  S.  and  Posses- 
sions and  Canada.  $.1.00  per  year  for  nil  other  countries. 
change  OF  ADDRESS:  (i  weeks'  notice  essential.  When  pos- 
sible please  furnish  stencil-impression  address  from  a  re- 
cent 'issue.  Address  Changes  can  he  made  only  If  you  send  us 
vour  old.  as  well  as  your  new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror.  200  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  bo  carefully  considered. 
Member  of  The  TRUE 


but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or  damage.  It 
Is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  tor  your  records  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self-addressed 
return    envelopes   or    with    sufficient    return    postage    will    bo 

FOREION  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17, 
N.    Y.     Irving    S.    Manhelmer.    President;    Douglas    Lockhart. 

RE-0ENTERED'as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954,  at  the 
Post  Ollfee  at  New  York.  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3. 
1879  Authorised  as  Second  Class  mall,  P.O.  Dept  Ottawa. 
Ont  Can  .  Copvrieht  1955  hv  Macfadden  Publications.  Inc. 
A  Vi'l  s  reserved  u'ndor  Internal  innnl  I  '..,.>;  right  Convent  -. 
All  rll'hls  reserved  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion Tie-  dereebos  resorvados  segun  La  Convention  Pan- 
Ame'rlca.  a '  dc  Pioplcdad  Llterarla  y  Artlstlca.  Title  trademark 
registered  In  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  In  U.  S.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Co. 


STORY    Women's    Group 


the  first  girdle  to  give  you 

Ttat  IFirdmidhi  Lodk, 

and 

ftlfo®  Fff@@dtoim.  y©tm  Ito 


The  chic  lines  of  Paris— in  carefree  American  comfort— are 
yours  with  this  newest  Playtex  Girdle/  We  call  it  High  Style 
.  .  .  you'll  call  it  wonderful/  World's  only  girdle  to  give 
all  three:  miracle-slimming  latex  outside,  cloud-soft  fabric 
inside— and  a  new  non-roll  top.  Trims  you  sleekly,  leaves 
you  free  .  .  .  no  matter  what  your  size!  Playtex  High  Style 
washes  in  seconds— and  you  can  practically  watch  it  dry. 


Look  for  the  Playtex  High  Style  Girdle  in  the  SUM  tube  . 
Other  Playtex  Girdles  from  $3.50.  At  department  stores 
and  better  specialty  shops  everywhere. 

OU.S.A.  and  foreign  patents  pending      tTrademnrk 


;595 


©1955    International  Latex  Corp'n.  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Dover  Del  *k  In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd. 


New  Playtex*  Living*  Bra 

The  model  in  the  photograph  is 
wearing  this  exciting  bra  forthe 
high,  round  look  Paris  loves  — 
you  will,  too/  And  it's  "custom- 
contoured"  for  perfect  fit.'  $3.95 

PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont. 


Twenty  years  of  the  best  in 
drama,  ten  Awards  from 
TV  Radio  Mirror  readers — 
an  all-time  record  for 
consistently  being  the  "tops" 


It's  been   twenty   star-studded   years 
since  Lux  Radio   Theater  began 
"broadcasting  movies"  on  the  air- 
waves.  The  date  was  October  14,  1934, 
and  the  play  was  "Seventh  Heaven." 
.  .  .  The  series  was  a  lusty  youngster, 
a   full-grown  favorite  from  the   start. 
Now  turning  the  corner  to  voting 
age,    Lux    has    won    your    votes    for 
eight    consecutive    years    as    your    fa- 
vorite radio  evening  drama — the  only 
program  to  make  a  clean  sweep  of 
the  Awards  every  year  since  the  bal- 
loting began.     And,   for   the   second 
consecutive  year,  you  have  named  it 
the  best  radio  program  on  the  air.  .  .  . 
For   this   anniversary    year,    Irving 
Cummings,  the  show's  producer-host, 
has  selected  "20  Greats"  from  the 
screen  classics  of  the  past.    They 
alternate  with  the  best  in  modern  film 
fare — introduced   by    the   magic 
words:    "Lux  Presents  Hollywood." 


Lux  Radio  Theater  is  heard  over  NBC  Radio, 
Tues.,  from  9  to  10  P.M.  EST— and  Lux  Video 
Theater  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  Thurs.,  10  P.M. 
EST — as  sponsored  by  Lever  Brothers  Company. 


How  Green  Was  My  Valley  reunited  old  friends  Donald 
Crisp  and  producer-host  Irving  Cummings — whose  career  as 
a  silent  screen  star  and  film  director  parallels  movie  history. 


FAVORITE   RADIO   EVENING   DRAMA    •    FAVORITE   RADIO   PROGRAM   ON   THE  AIR 


Wuthering  Heights  premiered  the 
"20  Greats"  series  with  star  Merle 
Oberon  recreating  her  original  role 
and  Sam  Goldwyn  as  guest  of  honor. 


Mother  Wore  Tights  was  one  of  the 

gala  musicals  presented  during  this 
season.  Dan  Dailey,  in  his  original 
role,  co-starred  with   Mitzi  Gaynor. 


Song  of  Bernadette,  another  "Great," 
teamed  lovely  Ann  Blyth  and  Charles 
Bickford,  who  enjoy  coffee  in  Lux's 
haven  for  the  stars,  the  Green   Room. 


The  Awful  Truth  was  played  on  Cary  Grant's  birth- 
day. Co-star  Irene  Dunne  counted  twenty-two 
candles — for  Cary's  Lux  appearances  to  that  date. 


Secret  of  the  Incas  had  Charlton  Heston  and 
Nicole  Maurey  sharing  top  billing.  The  personalized 
coffee  mugs  are  displayed  in  Lux's  "Cups  of  Fame." 


This ...  is  Edward  R.  Murrow 


He  looks  like  a  movie  version  of 
a  foreign  correspondent — but 
Ed  Murrow  is  a  farmer  s  son  who 
loves  life  in  a  "log  cabin' 


FAVORITE  RADIO  NEWS  COMMENTATOR 

A  three-time  winner,  Ed  prefers  globe-trotting  to  desk  duty: 
"I'm  like  o  peasant.    I   can't  describe  what  I   haven't  seen." 


The  "glamour  boy"  of  the  newscasting  world, 
Edward  R.  Murrow  is  handsome  enough 
to  be  type-cast  as  a  movie  foreign  correspondent 
and  to  provoke  women  to  sighs.    He's  also 
a  "man's  man"  who  once  worked  as  a  logger, 
a  lover  of  tall  tales  and  poker,  and  he  believes 
that   "the  only  things  a  father  can  teach  a 
son  are  to  ride,  shoot  and  tell  the  truth."    He's 
a  CBS  vice  president,  a  member  of  the  Board 
of  Directors,  newscaster,  interviewer,  editor- 
producer — and  a  three-time  winner  of 
your  Award  as  radio's  top  news  commentator. 

Ed,  who  is  on  a  first-name  basis  with  princes, 
potentates  and  presidents,  gets  his  headline 
stories  directly  from  the  men  who  make  the 
news.    But  he  has  a  shirt-sleeve  attitude  toward 
his  work.   He  puts  his  feet  up  on  a  desk  in 
one  of  CBS'  most  unpretentious  executive 
offices.    He's  what  newsmen  call  a   "bleeder," 
agonizing  over  his  copy  and  never  completely 
satisfied  with  it.    At  the  end  of  fifteen  minutes 
on  the  air.  he  is  soaked  with  perspiration. 
In  a  business  where  everybody  works  hard 
and  worries  hard,  Ed  Murrow  works  and 
worries   harder   than    anyone. 

Ed's    down-to-earth    attitude    toward    himself 
and  his  work  comes  from  his  parents.    His 
father,  who  did  farm  work  before  becoming 
a  locomotive  engineer,   (Continued  on  -page  27) 


In  spite  of  his  travels,  Ed's  farm  is  his  best- 
loved  destination.  Here,  he  relaxes  by  golfiing 
with   Janet,   or   catches    up   on   current   books. 


Edward  H.  Murrow  With  The  News  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  7:45  P.M.    This  I  Believe  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio  and  other  stations;  check 
local  papers  for  time.  Edward  R.  Murrow  is  seen  on  CBS-TV  in  Person  To  Person,  Fri.,  10:30  P.M.,  and  See  It  Now,  Tues.,  10:30  P.M.  (All  EST) 


Only  Bobbi  is  specially  designed  to  give  the  softly  feminine  wave  necessary 
for  this  new  "Blithe  Spirit"  hairstyle.  No  nightly  settings  are  needed. 


Soft,  natural  from  the  start  .  .  .  that's  the  "Soft  Talk" 
hairstyle  after  a  Bobbi.  And  Bobbi  is  so  simple  to  give! 


Bobbi's  soft  curls  make  a  natural,  informal  wave 
like  this  possible.  A  Bobbi  always  gives  you  care- 
free curls  as  in  this  winsome  "Capulet"   hairdo. 


NEVER    TIGHT,   NEVER    FUSSY 


Softly  feminine  hairstyles  like  these  are 

yours  with  a  Bobbi-the  special  pin-curl 

permanent  for  soft,  natural  curls 

If  you  dread  most  permanents  because  you  definitely  don't  want  tight, 
fussy  curls,  Bobbi  is  just  right  for  you.  This  easy  pin-curl  permanent  is 
specially  designed  for  today's  newest  softly  feminine  hairstyles. 

Bobbi  gives  a  curl  where  you  want  it,  the  way  you  want  it  —  alwavs 
soft,  natural,  and  vastly  becoming!  It  has  the  beauty,  the  body,  the  soft, 
lovely  look  of  naturally  wavy  hair. 

You  pin-curl  your  hair  just  once.  Apply  Bobbi's  special  Creme  Oil 
Lotion.  A  little  later  rinse  hair  with  water.  Let  dry,  brush  out... imme- 
diately you'll  be  happy  with  your  hair.  And  the  soft,  natural  look  lasts  week 
after  week.   If  you  like   softly   feminine   hairstyles,   you'll   love  a   Bobbi. 

New  20-Page  Hairstyle  Booklet!  Colorful  collection  of  new  softly  feminine  hairstyles. 
Easy-to-follow  setting  instructions.  Hints!  Tips!  Send  now  for  "Sef-/r-Yourse/f  Hairstyles." 
Your  name,  address,  10c  in  coin  to:  Bobbi,  Box  3600,  Merchandise  Mart,  Chicago,   III. 


r 


Bobbi  is  made  especially  to  give  young,  free  and 

easy  hairstyles  like  this  "Confection"  hairdo.  And       Just  simple  pin-curls  and  Bobbi.  No  separate  neutralizer,  no  curlers,  no  resetting. 

the  curl  stays  in — no  matter  what  the  weather.  Everything  you  need  —  New  Creme  Oil  Lotion,  special  bobbv  pins.  <i.jO  plus  tax. 


Mel  Allen's  unparalleled 
success  throughout  the  years 
has  been  based  on  honesty— 
with  himself  and  everyone 


TRUE  to  HIMSELF 


WHAT  manner  of  man  is  Mel  Allen?    Is  his  work  schedule 
easygoing,  requiring  only  that  he  attend  a  sports  event  and 
just  describe  what  happens?    This  notion,  if  attached  to  the 
dynamic,  on-the-go  Mr.  Allen,  would  be  as  worthless  as  a  three- 
dollar  bill.   For  Mel,  with  his  radio  and  TV  broadcasts  of  all  the 
Yankee  baseball  games,  college  football  games  and  numerous 
other  sports  events  throughout  the  year,  plus  speaking  engagements 
across  the  country,  is  as  busy  as  the  proverbial  bee.   Then,  too, 
in  addition  to  the  business  matters  involved  with  all  these  activities, 
Mel  receives  and  answers  a  tremendous  amount  of  mail — in 
fact,  he  is  one  of  the  top  mail  recipients  in  his  field.  Nevertheless, 
says  Mel,  "I'm  on  a  vacation  twelve  months  of  the  year."   And, 
because  his  work  never  loses  its  fascination  or  excitement,  Mel  says, 
"I  just  hope  I  can  continue  doing  this  for  the  rest  of  my  life." 

Everyone  who  follows  sports  is  quite  familiar  with  Mel's  on-the- 
air,  around-the-year  schedule  but  few,  by  comparison,  hear  of 
his  many  appearances  at  sports  and  charitable  events.    On  such 
occasions,  Mel — besides  telling  colorful  stories  of  the  sports 
world — likes  to  stress  one  of  his  favorite  themes:    The  spirit  of 
teamwork  and  brotherhood  in  sports  that  is  the  underlying  basis  of 
democracy.    "America's  common  meeting  ground,"  says  Mel, 
"is  the  playground."  That  is  why  he  tries,  (Continued  on  page  26) 

v    Mi  I  i-  -(in  on  Call  The  Play,  for  White  Owl  Cigars;  check  newspapers  for  time 

r     and  station    lie  i-  the     \  oil  ■    ol  tin-  Yankees,"  on  WI'IX  anil  WINS,  in  New  York. 


FAVORITE  TV  SPORTSCASTER 

Mel's  popularity  won  him  his  fourth  consecutive 
Award;  it  also  means  a  tremendous  influx  of  fan 
mail  to  be  read  and  answered  by  Mel  personally. 


/tttor/ 


A  LIQUID  SHAMPOO 
ha  s  EXTRA  RICH  I 


JUST  POUR  IT  .  .  . 

and  you'll  see  the 
glorious  difference! 


Some  liquid  shampoos  are 
too  thin  and  watery  .  .  . 
some  too  heavy,  and  contain 
an  ingredient  that  can  leave 
a  dulling  film.  But  Prell  has 
a  "just-right"  consistency- 
it  won't  run  and  never  leaves 
a  dulling  film.  j 


TS   LIQUID 
\ 


PRELL 


FOR 


^im&/t&/a//ai^ 


Something  to  sing  about  — wonderful,  emerald-clear  Liquid  Prell! 

No  other  shampoo  has  this  unique,  extra-rich  new  formula— and  how  you'll 
love  it!  Bursts  instantly  into  luxurious,  extra-rich  lather  .  .  .  rinses 

in  a  twinkle  ...  is  so  mild  you  could  shampoo  every  day.  And  Liquid  Prell 
leaves  your  hair  caressablv  soft,  a  dream  to  manage  — looking  excitingly 

'Radiantly  Alive.'  Try  new  Liquid  Prell  today,  won't  you?  It's  fabulous! 


PRELL — for  'Radiantly  Alive'  Hair — now  available  2  ways! 


The  exciting,  new  extra-rich  liquid  in 
the  handsome,  easy-grip  bottle! 

And  the  famous,  handy  tube  that's 
ideal  for  the  whole  family.  Won't 
spill,  drip,  or  break.  It's  concentrated 
—  ounce  for  ounce  it  goes  further! 


CREATED  BY  PROCTER  £  GAMBLE 


Babies  have  That  Ivory  Look  .  .  . 
why  shouldn't  you?  Do  you  know  the 
milder  your  beauty  soap,  the  prettier  your 
skin?  More  doctors  advise  mild,  pure 
Ivory  for  baby's  skin  and  yours  than  any 
other  soap.  Better  trust  Ivory! 


You  can  have  That  Ivory  Look  .  . 

under  your  Spring  bonnet,  too! 

Simply  start  now  cleansing  your  skin 

regularly  with  mild,  pure  Ivory  Soap. 

And  in  only  7  days — my,  you're  pretty! 

You've  got  That  Ivory  Look ! 


99,11%  pure   it  floats 


It's  like  getting  one  FREE!  4  cakes 
of  Personal  Size  Ivory  cost  about 
the  same  as  3  cakes  of  other  leading 
toilet  soaps.  It  all  adds  up  .  .  . 


a  I 121 I 

l*oiy 
Look 

Young  America  has  it... 
You  can  have  it  in  7 days! 


■  vim 


Personal  Size  Ivory  is  your  best  beauty  buy  f 


information  booth 


Patricia  Benoit  and  Wally  Cox 

Mrs.  Peepers 

Dear  Editor: 

I  would  like  to  know  something  about 
Patricia  Benoit,  ivho  plays  the  school  nurse 
and  newlywed,  Nancy  Remington  Peepers, 
on  NBC-TV's  Mr.  Peepers.  Where  can  I 
write  to  her?  C.  K.,  Scottsville,  Va. 

Patricia  Benoit,  a  pert  brownette  from 
Fort  Worth,  Texas,  was  six  years  old 
when  she  started  taking  elocution  lessons. 
From  that  time  on,  she  knew  her  career 
was  to  be  acting.  After  a  year  at  Texas 
State  College  for  Women,  Pat  headed  for 
New  York  and  the  American  Academy  of 
Dramatic  Arts.  Next  came  summer  stock 
in  Maine,  off-Broadway  productions,  and 
finally  Broadway  itself,  in  "Glad  Tidings" 
and  "The  Brass  Ring."  She  won  rave 
notices  for  her  performances — and  a  flock 
of  television  offers.  She  has  appeared  on 
Television  Playhouse  and  Robert  Mont- 
gomery Presents,  among  others.  After 
two  appearances  on  the  Mr.  Peepers  sum- 
mer series,  she  was  signed  as  a  program 
regular.  .  .  .  Pat's  a  newlywed  off-camera 
as  well  as  on.  She  married  Parton  Swift, 
Jr.  in  October,  1953.  She  likes  both  stage 
and  TV,  loves  playing  comedy  but  hopes 
someday  to  become  an  outstanding  dra- 
matic actress.  She  enjoys  the  theater  and 
concerts,  is  partial  to  the  singing  of  Ethel 
Waters  and  Ella  Fitzgerald.  At  home.  Pat 
relaxes  in  blue  jeans  and,  for  street  wear, 
favors  skirts  and  blouses  or  classically 
simple  dresses.  You  can  write  to  her 
c/o  Mr.  Peepers.  NBC-TV.  30  Rockefeller 
Plaza.  New  York,  N.  Y. 


Stormy  Weather 

Dear  Editor: 

Would  you  tell  us  something  about  Ger- 
ald Mohr,  who  portrays  Christopher  Storm 
on  the  TV  series,  Foreign  Intrigue? 

F.  J.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  "storms"  have  figured  in  the  suc- 
cess of  handsome,  dark-haired  Gerald 
Mohr.  The  first  was  the  storm  that 
brought  about  the  Morro  Castle  ship  dis- 
aster off  the  New  Jersey  coast  in  1934. 
"Gerry"  was  a  medical  science  student  at 
Columbia  University  at  the  time — and 
also  CBS'  youngest  coast-to-coast  an- 
nouncer. His  broadcast  of  the  tragedy  so 
impressed  drama  critic  John  Anderson 
that  he  paved  the  way  for  Gerry's  Broad- 
way debut  in  "The  Petrified  Forest."  The 
second  is  "Chris  Storm."  the  Vienna  hotel 
owner  that  Gerry  plays  in  Foreign  In- 
trigue, the  TV  adventure  series  filmed  in 
Europe.  .  .  .  Now  in  his  middle  thirties. 
Gerry  is  a  native  New  Yorker,  reared  by 
his  grandfather — a  doctor  of  psychology 
and  associate  of  Sigmund  Freud — and  his 
widowed  mother,  who  was  a  celebrated 
Viennese  singer.  A  scholar  as  well  as  an 
actor.  Gerry  is  fascinated  by  sociology 
and  anthropology  and  is  particularly 
proud  of  his  rare  first  editions  of  Anatole 
France  and  his  extensive  collection  of 
crime  literature.  He  likes  horseback  rid- 
ing, drinks  20-odd  cups  of  coffee  a  day. 
and  has  trouble  balancing  his  checkbook. 

Gerry's  part  as  Chris  Storm  has  meant 
moving  to  Stockholm.  Sweden,  with  his 
wife  Rita — who  was  his  childhood  sweet- 
heart— and  their  five-year-old  son.  An- 
thony.   Between  "storms."  Gerry  appeared 


Gerald  Mohr 


The  Lone  Ranger 

with  the  Mercury  Theater  in  "Jean  Chris- 
tophe."  starred  and  directed  the  Philip 
Marlowe  radio  series,  narrated  for  the 
Voice  of  America,  and  appeared  on  such 
programs  as  Suspense,  Ford  Theater,  My 
Frvorite  Husband  and  Four  Star  Play- 
house. 

Hi-yo  Silver 

Dear  Editor: 

Is  Jay  Silverheels,  who  plays  Ton  to  on 
The  Lone  Ranger,  a  real  Indian? 

L.  M.  D.,  Green  Park.  Pa. 

Yes,  Jay  Silverheels  belongs  to  the 
Mohawk  Indian  tribe  of  upper  New  \  ork 
State  and  Canada.  He  himself  was  born 
in  Canada.  .  .  .  Incidentally.  The  Lone 
Ranger,  now  on  both  radio  and  T\ .  is 
celebrating  its  twenty-second  year  on  the 
air.  The  story  of  the  masked  hero  stems 
from  the  lone  survivor  of  a  group  of 
Texas  Rangers  ambushed  by  bandits. 
The  wounded  Ranger  was  rescued  and 
nursed  back  to  health  by  Tonto.  who  had 
known  him  as  a  child  and  called  him 
"Kemo  Sabay" — or  trusted  scout.  The 
Ranger,  thought  dead  by  everyone, 
donned  a  mask  and  joined  with  Tonto  to 
avenge  the  massacre  of  his  friends  and 
then  devoted  his  life  to  fighting  for  jus- 
tice. Silver  was  a  wild  stallion  whom  the 
Lone  Ranger  rescued  from  a  fight  with 
a  wild  bison.  The  Ranger  tried  to  >et 
him  free,  but  Silver  returned  and  quickly 
learned  to  obey  the  command:  "Hi-yo 
Silver,  away ! " 

(Continued   on    page    12) 


A  playful  pink  .  .  .  but  it's 
strictly  for  grown-ups! 
There's  nothing  little-girl 
about  the  kiss-me-quick  look 
it  gives  your  lips.  This  bright 
new  shade  of  Cashmere 
Bouquet  Lipstick  does  its 
good  work  discreetly,  too — 
Pink-A-Boo  stays  on  you, 
slays  off  everyone  else! 


Conover 
girls  pick 
Cashmere 
Bouquet 


"Have  a  lipstick  wardrobe:  a  blue- 
red,  an  orange-red  and  a  definite 
pink.  All  three  cost  less  than  $2 
when,  like  our  Conover  girls,  you 
choose  Cashmere  Bouquet". 


7  Cover-Girl  Colors 


49$ 


plus  tax 


LoMcLflo 


cm 


cashmere  bouquet 

Indelible-Type  Lipstick 

Super-Creamed  to  Keep  Your  Lips  Like  Velvet 


Information  Booth 

(Continued  from  page   11) 


..£^:'-::: 


Maurice  Copeland 

Groceries  to  Greasepaint 

Dear  Editor: 

Would  you  print  some  information  on 
Maurice  Copeland,  who  plays  Dr.  Floyd 
Corey  on  Hawkins  Falls.  Where  can  I 
write  to  him?       V.  S.,  Lyons  Falls,  N.  Y. 

Maurice  Copeland  was  bitten  by  the 
acting  bug  while  in  high  school  in  his 
native  Rector,  Arkansas.  When  he  gradu- 
ated, he  moved  to  Memphis,  Tennessee,  to 
ring  up — not  curtains — but  cash-register 
sales  as  manager  of  a  grocery  chain  store. 
But,  when  he'd  saved  a  "grubstake," 
Maurice  hied  himself  to  California  and 
the  Pasadena  Community  Playhouse 
and  graduated  with  highest  honors.  Next 
he  appeared  on  Broadway,  then  went  to 
Chicago  to  work  in  radio.  In  1941,  he 
returned  to  the  Pasadena  Playhouse  as 
a  director,  then  settled  permanently  in 
Chicago,  where  he  has  appeared  on  First 
Nighter,  Ma  Perkins,  Backstage  Wife, 
and.  of  course,  Hawkins  Falls.  .  .  .  The 
Copelands,  with  their  son  and  two  daugh- 
ters, live  in  Wilmette,  Illinois.  Write  to 
Maurice  c/o  Haivkins  Falls,  NBC-TV, 
Merchandise  Mart.  Chicago,  111. 

Calling  All   Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested,  write  to  the 
address  given — not  to  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

McGuire  Sisters  Club,  Mertie  Cooper, 
East  Ave.,  Barker,  N.  Y. 

Dinah  Shore  Fan  Club,  Kay  Daly,  3528 
Greenfield  Ave.,   Los  Angeles,   Calif. 

Jan  Arden  Club,  Susan  MacFeiggan,  233 
Ridgewood  Rd.,  West  Hartford,  Conn. 


FOR    YOUR    INFORMATION— If 

there's  something  you  want  to  know  about 
radio  and  television,  write  to  Information 
Booth,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nl 
St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if 
we  can,  provided  your  question  is  of  gen- 
eral in  I  crest.  Answers  will  appear  in  this 
column  -  but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to 
your  letter,  and  specify  whether  your 
question  concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Debut:  A  last  glance  in 
the  mirror,  a  pause  at  Hotel 
Pierre's  curtain,  and  Marion 
Marlowe  "wows"  New  York  night- 
clubbers  with  song  and  glamour. 


WHAT'S  NEW 

FROM  COAST  TO  COAST 


One  of  the  most  interesting  shows  ever  to  be  pre- 
sented on  television  has  been  filmed  for  The 
Search,  the  CBS-TV  Sunday  afternoon  feature. 
The  subject  is  mental  health,  and  the  producers  have 
done  it  in  two  parts,  for  the  April  10  and  April  17  pro- 
grams. The  films  were  taken  at  Tulane  University  in 
Louisiana,  and  are  a  factual  report  on  the  fascinating 
research  being  done  in  the  field  of  mental  illness.  Actual 
patients  were  photographed,  and  their  activities  are 
completely  unrehearsed. 

CBS-TV  has  also  lined  up  three  interesting  presenta- 
tions for  their  popular  You  Are  There  series.  On  April 
10,  they'll  do  "P.  T.  Barnum  Presents  Jenny  Lind;"  on 
April  17,  "The  Emancipation  Proclamation;"  and  on 
April  24,  "The  Rise  of  Adolf  Hitler."  The  "Hitler" 
show  is  a  repeat  of  one  done  about  a  year  ago,  for  which 
there  have  been  many  requests.  Walter  Cronkite  will 
be  the  narrator-reporter  on  all  three  programs. 

Joan  Davis  has  done  her  last  J  Married  Joan  televi- 
sion film,  and  her  laugh  series  has  gone  off  the  air. 
Though  Joan  has  stated  she  is  "retiring  from  show  busi- 
ness," it  is  no  secret  that  she  and  her  sponsor  were 
most  unhappy  over  the  rating  drop  on 
her  program,  most  of  which  was  attrib- 
uted to  the  popularity  of  Disneyland,  her 


By  JILL  WARREN 


TV-time  competitor.  The  Arthur  Godfrey  Wednesday 
night  program  also  suffered  a  drop  in  ratings,  and  that 
has  also  been  blamed  on  Mr.  Disney  and  his  little 
friends.  At  any  rate,  Joan  Davis'  show  business  pals 
don't  take  her  retirement  statement  too  seriously,  and 
most  of  them  think  she's  giving  up  her  career  the  way 
Betty  Hutton  did — not  really,   and  not  for  very   long. 

Rudy  Vallee  is  back  and  CBS  Radio  has  got  him,  star- 
ring Sunday  nights  on  the  Krajt  Music  Hall.  (Remem- 
ber when  that  was  the  name  of  Bing  Crosby's  air 
show?)  Rudy  heads  up  an  hour  program,  originating 
from  New  York,  replacing  Edgar  Bergen,  Charlie  Mc- 
Carthy and  Company.  It's  Vallee's  frrst  regular  network 
show  since  1947. 

The  Phil  Silvers  show,  which  was  supposed  to  have 
gone  on  CBS-TV  this  season,  will  be  held  over  until 
fall.  The  network  was  simply  unable  to  come  up  with 
a  good  time  period  for  it  and  they  are  so  sure  they  have 
a  winner,  they're  willing  to  wait  with  it  until  next 
season.  Meanwhile,  Phil  and  his  supporting  cast  have 
been  shooting  his  situation  comedy,  temporarily  titled 
You'll  Never  Get  Rich,  and  now  have  almost  a  dozen 
shows  ready. 

There    is    no    definite    news    on    Ar- 
thur Godfrey's   (Continued  on  page  24) 


13 


Out  of  the 
Shadow 


The  show  goes  on!  Wife  June  and  eldest 
daughter  Cathy  are  happy  to  see  Bob  back  in 
action,  chipper  as  ever.  Below:  Cathy,  June 
and  Bob  with  the  other  young  Crosbys — Steve, 
Bob  Jr.,   Chris  and  their   baby  sister,    Malia. 


14 


FAVORITE  TV  DAYTIME  VARIETY  PROGRAM 

The  Bob  Crosby  Show  scores  with  top  entertainment  by  such  stellar 
attractions  as  Bob  himself  (center),  Joan  O'Brien  (left),  and  Paula 
Kelly  and  the  Modernaires  (leader  Hal  Dickinson  just  behind  Joanie). 

Bob  Crosby  only  sees  the  sunshine, 
but  his  wife  June  will  never 
forget  ten  days  so  near  to  tragedy 


Now  that  Bob  Crosby  is  well  and  back 
on  his  feet  again,  the  inside  story  of  his 
bout  with  pneumonia  can  be  told. 
According  to  his  wife,  June,  the  events  leading 
up  to  his  brush  with  death — and  the 
unconcerned  manner  with  which  he  regarded 
the  entire  affair — give  a  new  insight  into 
the  personality  of  the  man  who,  hereafter,  will 
be  known  as  "Old  Ironsides"  Crosby. 

Bob  knew  he  was  coming  down  with 
something.   But  "Old  Ironsides"  Crosby  didn't 
want  to  complain:   First,  because  he  didn't 
want  to  frighten  his  wife  and  children 
(especially  Cathy,  who  was  planning  a  trip 
to  Switzerland).    Second,  because  he 
didn't  want  to  inconvenience  the  crew  of 
his  TV  show.  And  third,  he  just  didn't 
like  the  idea  of  being  sick. 

June  recalls  the  following  order  of  events  on 
the  Friday  he  was  taken  ill.   "When  he  left 
that  morning,  we  had  a  regular  husband-and- 
wife  talk  about  Cathy's  coming  departure, 
and  the  grades  Bob,  Jr.  was  getting  at  school 
in  Anaheim.   Then  Bob  left  for  the  studio. 
He  didn't  say  a  word  about  feeling  ill. 

"I  remember,"  says  June,  "that  he  had  been 
complaining  about  sinus  headaches.   In  fact, 
he'd  had  a  siege  some  weeks  before  with  a 
sinus  infection.    And,  for  a  time,  he  said  he 
noticed  his  voice  sounded  different  when  he 
sang." 

When  he  came  home  (Continued  on  page  26) 

The  Bob  Crosby  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  M-F, 
3:30  P.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  Bob  is 
heard  on  The  Jack  Benny  Program,  CBS  Radio, 
Sun.,    7    P.M.    EST,    for    Lucky    Strike    Cigarettes. 


For  the  Easiest  Permanent 
of  Your  Life  . . . 


£%. 


SET  IT  / 


Set  your  pin-curls  just  as  you  always  do. 
No  need  for  anyone  to  help. 


r 


wn  it  / 


Apply  CASUAL  lotion  just  once. 
15  minutes  later,  rinse  with  clear  water. 


Casual 


FORGET  IT/ 


That's  all  there  is  to  it!  CASUAL  is 

self-neutralizing.  There's  no  resetting. 

Your  work  is  finished  t 


Naturally  lovely,  carefree  curls 

that  last  for  weeks  . . . 

Casual  is  the  word  for  it . . .  soft,  carefree  waves 

and  curls  — never  tight  or  kinky  — beautifully  manageable, 

perfect  for  the  new  flattering  hair  styles  that  highlight  the  softer, 

natural  look.  Tonight  — give  yourself  the  loveliest  wave 

of  your  life  — a  Casual  pin-curl  permanent! 

takes  just  15  minutes  more  than  setting  your  hair! 

$1.50   PLUS   TAX 


15 


DEODORANT  STICKS 


af 


WF 


"& 


16 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


9078 — You'll  live  in  and  love  this  wrap- 
tie  runabout.  Opens  flat  to  iron.  Misses' 
Sizes  12-20.  Size  16  takes  4%  yards  35- 
inch  fabric.  35(S 

9248 — The  fashion-right  casual  you  have 
named  your  favorite.  Novel  scalloped 
buttoning,  bloused  bodice,  easy  skirt. 
Misses'  Sizes  12-20;  3042.  Size  16  takes 
4%  yards  39-inch  fabric.  350 


Delight  in  this 
fragrant  protection 
that  keeps  you  lovely 
to  be  near 


Stop  perspiration  odor! 
Keep  underarms  dry! 
Delightfully  fragrant! 

SPECIAL 
INTRODUCTORY  OFFER 

Good  for  Limited  Time  Only! 

(reg.  $1.50  value)       MW 


BOURJOIS  -  Created  in  France  .  .  .  Made  in  U.S.A. 


4773 — You'll  love  this  sheath  dress  with 
the  box  jacket.  It's  proportioned  to  fit 
the  half-size  figure.  Half-Sizes  141/^.-241/4. 
Size  16%  dress  takes  3*4  yards  35-inch 
fabric;  jacket,  2%  yards.  35<^ 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to: 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Department,  P.  O.  Box 
137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  N.  Y.  Add 
five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing. 


4773 

SIZES 
14'/2-24'/2 


I 


9500  Skin  Tests  Prove 


Palm  olive  Soap  Is  Mildest! 
Better  for  Complexion  Care ! 

BETTER  THAN  ANY  LEADING  TOILET  SOAP... 
FLOATING  SOAP...  EVEN  COLD  CREAM 


Palmolive's  gentle  complexion  care 
cleans  thoroughly  without  irritation  ! 


There's  nothing  women  envy  more  ...  or  men  admire  so  much 
...  as  that  lovely  "schoolgirl  complexion  look."  And  you  too,  can 
have  a  younger  looking,  far  lovelier  complexion  just  by  changing  to 
proper  care  with  gentle  Palmolive.  It  does  so  much  to  help  you 
have  a  cleaner,  fresher  skin  —  leaves  it  so  wonderfully  soft! 


Skin  specialists  agree  that  a  really  mild  soap  means  less  irrita- 
tion, more  gentle  cleansing.  Milder  Palmolive  brings  you  these 
benefits — so  important  for  a  softer,  smoother,  brighter  skin.  You'll 
find  no  other  leading  soap  gets  skin  thoroughly  clean  as  gently  as 
Palmolive  Soap.  Yes,  Palmolive  is  mildest  of  them  all! 


Skin  Specialists  Say:  "MILDER  CLEANSING  IS  BETTER  FOR  YOUR  COMPLEXION!" 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 
Milder  than  Any  Other  Leading 
Beauty  Soap  or  Castile  Soap! 


n 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 

Milder  than  Leading  White 

Floating  Soaps  or  Deodorant  Soaps! 


Palmolive  Is  Proved 

Even  Milder  than  America's  leading 

Cold  Creams! 


PALMOIIVE 


pAlMOUVE 


PALMOLIVE  SOAP  HELPS  YOU  GUARD  THAT  SCHOOLGIRL  COMPLEXION  LOOK! 


m 


Sincerely  Yours 

Douglas  Edwards  presents  the  news 

with  an  ease  and  warmth  that  have  made  him 

tops,  in  talent  and  personality 


His  hours  at  home  are  precious  to  Doug — as  they  are  to 
Sara,  who  is  always   understanding   about   Doug's  work. 


FAVORITE  TV  NEWS  COMMENTATOR 

Doug,  a  three-time  Award  winner,  has  the  oldest 
TV  news  show,  is  called  "dean"  of  TV  newscasters. 


A  newscaster's  lot  is  not  always  a  happy 
one.  On  some  days,  there's  too  much  news 
to  report;  on  others,  there  is  too  little — 
which  usually  comes  too  late.  But,  in  spite  of 
the  ups  and  downs,  Douglas  Edwards — whom 
you  voted  as  your  favorite  TV  news  commen- 
tator— loves  his  work  and  always  has.  In  fact, 
though  he  is  still  a  young  man — in  years 
and  at  heart — Doug  is  celebrating  his  22nd  year 
as  a  newscaster.  Starting  when  he  was  a 
fifteen-year-old  schoolboy  in  Troy,  Alabama, 
and  was  appointed  unpaid  news  broadcaster 
on  his  friends'  100- watt  station,  Doug  has  served 
at  radio  stations  in  Atlanta,  Detroit,  and,  since 
1942,  he  has  been  a  member  of  the  CBS  Radio 
news  staff,  branching  out,  in  1947,  to  include 
television.  His  assignments  have  taken  him  to 
Europe,  Africa,  the  Middle  East,  and  he  has 
played  a  key  part  in  CBS-TV's  coverage  of  the 
Presidential  and  Congressional  campaigns 
and  elections.  (Continued  on  page  20) 

Douglas  Edwards  And  The  News  is  seen  on  CBS-TV, 
M-F,  7:30  P.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  Doug 
broadcasts  the  news  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  8:25  P.M.  EST. 


As   proud  as  any  father  could   be,    Doug   enjoys   hearing   Lynn    play  and   sing   ...   is  a   model   patient  for   Donna, 
"my    little    nurse"    .    .    .    and    follows    with    keen    interest     Robert's    hobbies    and    activities    in    the    Cub    Scouts. 


SPRING    GARDEN 


Something  special  in  everyone's  reach 


ALL    PATTERNS     MADE     IN     USA 


The  worlds  most  precious  silverplate 

You  know  your  future  will  be  shiny  bright  the  minute  you're  all  set  with  Holmes  &  Edwards.  It's  not  only  the  loveliest 
.  .  .  it's  the  only  silverplate  with  an  extra  helping  of  precious  sterling  inlaid  at  backs  of  bowls  and  handles  of  most- 
used  pieces.  It  costs  a  little  more  .  .  .  but  think  of  the  extra  yea/5  of  silver  beauty.  52-piece  set  for  8.  and  chest.  $84.50. 


Two  blocks  of  sterling  inlaid  at  backs  of 
bowls  and  handles   promise  longer,  lovelier   silver   life. 


HOLMES  &  EDWARDS 


STERLING  IN  LAID  SILVERPLATE 
MADE  ONLY  BY  THE  INTERNATIONAL  SILVER  COMPANY 


v  rnaidenfprrn  bra 


znn 


Shades  of  Scheherazade!    I'm  soaring  over  the  shifting  sands 
...higher  than  the  minaret  spires 
...and  the  only  magic  word  I  need  is  Maidenform! 

I'm  shaped  so  beautifully. ..  molded  so  divinely...) 
I'm  the  loveliest  figure  in  1001  Nights  of  dreaming  ! 

The  dream  of  a  bra:  Maidenform's  Etude*  in  white 
nylon  taffeta  or  broadcloth;  A,  B,  and  C  cups...  from  2.00; 
AA  cups  for  teen  figures,  1.75.  Send  for  free  style  booklet. 


tDl't'ji    MAIDEN  POflM   fKMV.IU'C  CO.,  INC 


20 


Sincerely  Yours 

(Continued  from  page  18) 
Although  he  delivers  a  total  of  20  radio 
and  TV  newscasts  a  week  and  often  works 
eighteen  to  twenty  hours  a  day,  Doug's 
pleasant,  relaxed  nature  never  leaves  him. 
Friends  and  co-workers  alike  agree  unani- 
mously that  he  is  one  of  the  most  genial, 
easy-to-work-and-be-with  people  to  be 
found  anywhere.  Doug,  however,  is  the 
first  to  admit  he  has  had  his  share  of 
qualms.  This  is  particularly  true  when 
films  to  be  shown  on  his  7:30  P.M.  tele- 
cast are  late  in  arriving.  "They  should 
come  in  at  intervals  throughout  the  after- 
noon," he  explains,  "but  usually  they  all 
come  in  a  rush  around  six  o'clock — un- 
seen, uncut  and  unknown. 

"News  work  is  a  job  you  live  with  24 
hours  a  day,  seven  days  a  week,  365  days 
a  year,"  Doug  says.  Never  content  to 
merely  deliver  the  news,  Doug  has  always 
helped  write  and  edit  it.  "And,"  he  adds, 
"preparation  for  a  newscast  doesn't  stop 
until  the  light  flashes  'off  the  air.'  All 
through  the  program,  writers  and  editors 
keep  close  watch  on  the  news  sources, 
ready  to  hand  me  late  bulletins  while  I'm 
on  the  air.  This"  sometimes  calls  for  hectic 
pulling  and  hauling,  adding  15  seconds 
here,  dropping  15  there,  so  that  when  time 
runs  out,  I'm  ready,  willing  and  able  to 
say,  'Douglas  Edwards  saying,  "Good  night, 
everybody  .  .  ."  '  " 

Although  there  is  this  constant,  behind- 
the-scene  bustling,  Doug's  viewers  are  the 
least  aware  of  it  for,  no  matter  what  goes 
wrong,  he  always  remains  unruffled.  Also, 
Doug  believes  in  the  understated  ap- 
proach to  television  news.  He  tries  to  let 
the  pictures  tell  the  story  and  be  as  un- 
obtrusive as  possible,  while  at  the  same 
time  providing  an  intimate,  personal  link 
with  his  audience. 

Because  his  work  is  of  such  an  around- 
the-clock  nature,  Doug  stays  in  the  city 
Wednesday  and  Thursday  nights.  On  Fri- 
day, his  work  is  usually  finished  by  11  P.M. 
and  then  he  is  off  to  Weston,  Connecticut, 
and  his  family — wife  Sara;  Lynn  Alice, 
who  is  14  and  "speaks  with  a  clipped  Con- 
necticut accent";  Robert  9,  the  most  ram- 
bunctious member  of  the  clan;  and  Donna, 
7,  who,  says  Doug,  "is  my  little  nurse;  she 
tucks  me  into  bed  every  Sunday  night — 
then  pops  in  with  me!"  Doug  spends  most 
of  his  weekends  with  the  family — although, 
he  claims,  as  soon  as  he  gets  home,  they 
usually  rush  off  somewhere. 

The  Edwards'  home  was  built  for  them 
about  three  years  ago,  and  Doug  describes 
it  as  "modified  Colonial."  Situated  on  two 
acres  of  land,  it  has  proved  to  be  "one  of 
our  real  great  experiences,"  Doug  says.  It's 
strictly  a  family-type  house  and  though  he 
has  never  counted  the  number  of  rooms, 
he  "figures"  there  are  about  twelve. 

If  he  gets  the  time,  Doug  likes  to  play 
tennis — "I  sometimes  play  a  good  game" — 
and,  of  course,  his  yearly  vacation  is  a 
much  welcomed  event.  Otherwise,  he  en- 
joys going  to  the  theater,  reading,  and 
collecting  books  and  records.  He  is  also  a 
member  of  the  Overseas  Press  Club,  Sigma 
Delta  Chi,  the  national  journalism  fra- 
ternity, and  a  member  of  the  board  of  the 
National  Fund  for  Muscular  Dystrophy.  In 
addition,  he  frequently  writes  news  articles 
and   addresses   civic   organizations. 

Although,  as  a  newsman,  Doug  has  to 
concentrate  pretty  much  on  events  and 
facts,  he  says,  "I  love  to  get  out  and  talk 
to  people,"  and  he  would  therefore  like 
to  do  another  kind  of  show  someday,  in 
addition  to  his  newscasts.  Meanwhile,  he 
continues  to  enjoy  his  work  thoroughly 
and,  as  always,  matches  his  zeal  with  a 
fine,  sincere  performance — all  of  which 
provided  the  perfect  reason  for  his  being 
voted  your  favorite  TV  news  commentator. 


Sir 


V 


HHH| 


You  feel  so  very  sure  of  yourself . . .  after  a  p(/wtE  f<4l/tf  Shampoo! 


You're  confident  you  look  your  loveli- 
est ..  .  your  hair  soft  as  a  cloud  .  .  . 
sunshine  bright  .  .  .  every  shimmering 
strand  in  place.  That's  the  glorious  feel- 


ing you  have  after  using  White  Rain, 
the  lotion  shampoo  that  gives  you  re- 
sults like  softest  rainwater.  Try  it  and 
see  how  wonderful  you  feel. 


Use  New 


/bM*&& 


Shampoo  tonight  and  tomorrow  your  hair  ivill  be  sunshine  bright! 


FABULOUS   LOTION   SHAMPOO  BY  TON1 


21 


22 


5te^-AtteitM 


TURNTABLE 


Well,  well,  did  I  catch  you  just  after 
you  paid  your  income  tax?  Or  are  you 
just  about  to?  In  either  case,  a  little  music 
might  cheer  you  up  about  now.  So  let's 
call  the  meeting  to  order. 

And  we'll  start  off  with  a  bright,  new 
album  of  "Hit  the  Deck,"  from  the  old 
musical  comedy  and  the  current  Metro 
movie  of  the  same  name.  This  album  is 
taken  right  off  the  movie  soundtrack,  with 
such  lyrical  luminaries  as  Jane  Powell,  Vic 
Damone,  Tony  Martin,  Debbie  Reynolds, 
Kay  Armen  and  Ann  Miller  doing  the 
songs.  You'll  recognize  such  familiar 
tunes  as  "I  Know  that  You  Know,"  "Halle- 
lujah," "Sometimes  I'm  Happy,"  and  "More 
Than  You  Know,"  among  others.  George 
Stoll  conducts  the  M-G-M  Studio  orches- 
tra and  chorus.  (M-G-M) 

The  Four  Aces  just  keep  making  one 
hit  after  another,  and  their  latest  release 
should  be  one  of  their  biggest.  The  boys 
do  "You'll  Always  Be  the  One  (for  Me)" 
and  a  terrific  arrangement  of  the  oldie, 
"There  Goes  My  Heart,"  with  good  musical 
support  from  Jack  Pleis  and  his  orchestra. 
(Decca) 

Now,  if  it's  the  Irish  songs  you're  likin', 
Miss  Carmel  Quinn,  from  Kilarney  land, 
and  from  the  Arthur  Godfrey  shows,  has 
done  her  first  recordings  in  America,  a 
whole  album-full  of  Ireland  called  "Arthur 
Godfrey  Presents  Carmel  Quinn."  Carmel 
croons  such  well-known  tunes  from  Eire  as 
"Galway  Bay,"  "Isle  of  Innisfree,"  "Bally- 
maquilty  Band"  and,  with  the  boss-man 
Godfrey,  she  duets  "Mick  McGilligan's 
Ball"  and  "The  Humour  Is  on  Me  Now." 
(Columbia) 

Also  from  the  Godfrey  clan,  The  Mari- 
ners have  come  out  with  "I  Didn't  Come  to 
Say  Hello,"  an  up-tempo  ballad — which  is 
rather  a  departure  for  them — backed  by 
one  of  their  well-done  spirituals,  "Do  As 
You  Would  Be  Did  By."  Spencer  Odom's 
orchestra  provides  the  background.  (Co- 
lumbia) 

Micki  Mario,  one  of  Capitol's  vocal  hope- 
fuls, has  come  up  with  "Prize  of  Gold," 
which  may  be  just  the  prize  she's  been 
waiting  for.  It's  a  ballad  with  a  beat,  and 
Micki  belts  it  out  in  solid  style.  On  the 
reverse  she  sings  a  blues  kind  of  thing 
called  "Foolish  Notion."  Dick  Reynolds, 
Ray  Anthony's  chief  arranger,  did  the 
orchestrations  and  conducts  the  band. 

Eddie  Fisher  has  a  new  album  appropri- 
ately called  "I  Love  You,"  and  the  selec- 
tions are  all  love  songs,  natch.  Twelve  in 
all,  the  titles  more  or  less  suggest  a  June 
wedding,  and  the  renditions  are  obviously 


dedicated  to  you-know-who.  Included  are 
such  ballads  as  "The  Girl  that  I  Marry,"  "I 
Surrender,  Dear,"  "My  Romance,"  "My 
One  and  Only  Love."  Eddie  gets  his  usual 
good  musical  assistance  from  Hugo  Win- 
terhalter's  orchestra  and  chorus.    (Victor) 

If  you've  been  following  the  Disneyland 
TV  show,  you've  probably  heard-  "The 
Ballad  of  Davy  Crockett,"  and  if  you'd 
like  a  record  of  it,  you  can  choose  from 
several  versions.  Tennessee  Ernie,  with 
Cliffie  Stone's  orchestra,  does  it  for  Capitol; 
James  Brown  and  the  Trail  Winders  have 
the  M-G-M  waxing;  Bill  Hayes'  version  is 
on  Cadence,  released  a  couple  of  months 
ago;  and  even  I  did  one  up  for  Coral.  In- 
cidentally, mine  is  coupled  with  something 
that  has  nothing  to  do  with  Walt  Disney, 
called  "Very  Square  Dance,"  a  comedy 
song  that  I  have  to  take  the  blame  for 
writing,  too. 

Oops!  I  knew  it.  There's  another  vocal 
group  on  the  scene.  It's  a  male  quartet, 
with  the  name  "The  Gallahads,"  four  lads 
from  New  Jersey,  and  they've  made  a 
darned  good  first  record.  The  boys  bounce 
forth  with  "Ooh  Ah!",  a  novelty  which  will 
probably  be  the  big  side,  backed  with  the 
oldie  made  famous  by  Eddie  Howard, 
"Careless."    Good  luck,  fellas!    (Capitol) 

If  you  like  comedians  on  wax,  here  are 
a  couple  of  discs  to  liven  up  the  party 
some  night.  First,  Buddy  Hackett,  the 
roly-poly  funny  man  now  starring  in 
"Lunatics  and  Lovers"  on  Broadway,  does 
"The  Chinese  Laundry"  (a  sequel  to  his 
humorous  "Chinese  Waiter")  and  an 
amusing  version  of  the  famous  Glenn 
Miller  instrumental,  "Pennsylvania  6-5000." 
(Coral)  Then  Andy  Griffith,  the  young 
monologist  from  North  Carolina,  who  is 
sort  of  a  cross  between  Will  Rogers  and 
Bob  Burns,  gives  out  with  his  version  of 
"Make  Yourself  Comfortable"  and  "Ko- 
KoMo."    (Capitol) 

Fran  Warren,  who  can  always  be 
counted  on  when  it  comes  to  ballads,  has 
two  pretty  new  ones  in  "I  Need  Your 
Love"  and  "If  You  Love  Me."  Joe  Lip- 
man's  orchestra  on  both.  (M-G-M) 

"Marlene  Dietrich  at  the  Cafe  de  Paris" 
is  the  name  of  an  interesting  new  album 
by  the  queen  of  the  glamour  gals.  It  was 
recorded  right  at  the  famous  club  in  Lon- 
don when  Marlene  appeared  there  several 
months  ago  and  you'll  hear  the  audience 
and  crowd  noises  in  the  background.  Noel 
Coward  does  the  introduction,  in  verse, 
and  there  are  twelve  sides  in  all,  including 
such  familiar  Dietrich  numbers  as  "The 
Boys  in  the  Back  Room,"  "Falling  in  Love 


Again,"  "No  Love,  No  Nothin' "  and  "Look 
Me  Over  Closely."  There's  a  sensational 
picture  of  "Grandma"  on  the  album  cover, 
and  the  first  printing  of  this  set  is  being 
doused  in  Arpege  perfume!    (Columbia) 

Jumping  from  glamour  to  rhythm  and 
blues,  here's  Bill  Haley  and  The  Comets 
with  "Birth  of  the  Boogie"  and  "Mambo 
Rock,"  both  of  which  are  bound  to  coax 
many  nickels  into  the  country's  jukeboxes. 
By  the  way,  Haley's  "Shake,  Rattle  and 
Roll"  has  sold  over  a  million  copies,  which 
is  a  mighty  fine  shake,  what?    (Decca) 

Denise  Lor's  "The  Man  I've  Been  Look- 
ing For"  may  be  just  the  hit  she's  been 
looking  for.  It's  a  pretty  new  ballad  and 
Denise  sings  it  for  all  she's  worth.  The 
backing  is  a  cute  novelty,  "Butter  Fingers." 
Hugo  Peretti's  orchestra  plays  on  both 
sides.     (Mercury) 

Looks  like  George  Gobel  really  started 
something  with  his  expression,  "I'll  be  a 
dirty  bird,"  which  he  says  so  humorously 
on  his  TV  show.  Now  it's  become  a  song, 
not  a  funny  one,  but  a  lovely  torch  ballad, 
believe  it  or  not,  and  wrapped  up  in  fine 
style  by  The  Modernaires,  with  George 
Cates'   orchestra.     (Coral) 

Coral  is  all  steamed  up  about  a  new 
album  they're  releasing  any  minute,  and  I 
confess  I'm  steamed  up  right  along  with 
them,  on  account  of  it's  called  Steve  Allen 
and  his  orchestra  with  "Music  for  Tonight." 
We  recorded  nine  old  standard  tunes: 
"Long  Ago  and  Far  Away,"  "Imagination," 
"I'm  Glad  There  Is  You,"  and  things  like 
that.  Neil  Hefti  did  a  whale  of  a  job  on 
the  arrangements,  using  seventeen  strings 
and  a  rhythm  section.  In  the  solo  depart- 
ment, it's  Urbie  Green  on  trombone,  Sam 
Taylor  on  tenor  saxophone,  and  yours 
truly  on  piano.  I'm  really  pleased  with  the 
way  the  album  turned  out,  and  I  hope 
folks  like  it.  If  they  don't,  I  guess  I'll  just 
have  to  give  it  away  along  with  the  salami 
on  my  TV  show. 

And  the  magazine  will  be  giving  me 
away  if  I  don't  get  off  this  page.  So  bye, 
for  now.     I'll  be  seeing  you  next  month. 


Fontane  Sisters — Geri,  Margi 
(center)  and  Bea — win  a  gold  disc 
for  "Hearts  of  Stone,"  may  also  hit 
a    million   with    "Rock    Love."    (Dot) 


When  inviting  a  house  guest,  should  you  — 

l~l  limit  her  stay  Q  leave  the  departure  date  open  £]  Soy  when 


Let  this  visiting  teen  be  a  lesson— she  who's 
taken  over  the  family  easy  chair  and  favor- 
ite "funnies"  !  Can't  blame  her  for  staying 
on  and  on,  though.  After  all,  her  hostess 
didn't  specify  how  long.  Be  definite,  time- 
wise,  in  inviting  house  guests;  both  as  to 


their  arrival  and  exit  —  say  when!  Saves  un- 
certainty, embarrassment  all  around.  And 
when  "that"  time  arrives,  don't  be  vague 
about  sanitary  protection.  Say  Kotex*,  and 
get  absorbency  that  doesn't  fail . . .  the  trust- 
worthy kind  of  protection  you  need! 


If  you  play  the  coquette,  can  you— 

Q  lose  lover  Boy  Q  Join  the  school  band 

I    I  Triple  your  bookings 

Ever  think  you  could  soup  up  his  interest 
by  being  unpredictable?  Playing  games  — 
like  breaking  dates  at  the  11th  hour?  Make 
no  mistake  — such  tricks  will  zoom  you  into 
social  oblivion  !  Just  be  yourself.  And  never 
let  your  calendar  trick  you  into  date  break- 
ing; not  when  there's  Kotex  to  give  you 
chafe-free  softness  that  holds  its  shape.  And 
you  just  cant  make  a  mistake  —  because 
Kotex  can  be  worn  on  either  side,  safely! 


To  lose  that  winter  white  look,  fast,  try — 

[~1  Flying  to  Florida  fj  A  tint  stint 

l~l  Par  boiling 

You  know  that  just-crept-from-under-a-stone 
feeling  — when  everyone  else  is  a  glamorous 
bronze?  Outwit  those  stares  before  they 
start!  Before  you  trek  beachward,  tan  your 
snowy  hide  with  a  clear  skin  tint.  No  need 
to  cringe  on  certain  days,  either,  even  in 
your  siren -est  date  dress.  For  those  flat 
pressed  ends  of  Kotex  veto  revealing  outlines. 
Why  not  try  Kotex  in  all  3  sizes,  to  find 
the  one  for  you  —  Regular,  Junior  or  Super? 


Move  women  choose  KOTEX  than  all  other  sanitary  napkins 


It's  the  wise  lassie  who  doesn't  take  chances  with 
personal  daintiness  on  certain  days,  but  trusts  to 
Quest*  deodorant  powder.  Specially  designed  for 
sanitary  napkins  ...  no  moisture  resistant  base 
to  slow  up  absorption.  Unscented  Quest  powder 
positively  destroys  odors.  Use  Quest  to  be  sure! 


T.  M.  RES.  U.  I.  PAT.  Oft. 


EVEN  IF  YOU 

BRUSH  YOUR  TEETH 

ONLY  ONCE  A  DAY 

Colgate 

Dental  Cream 
Gives  The  Surest 

Protection 
All  Daylong! 


Brushing  For  Brushing,  It's  The 
Surest  Protection  Ever  Offered  By  Any 
Toothpaste!  Because  Only  Colgate's— 
Of  All  Leading  Toothpastes  —  Contains 
Gardol*  To  Stop  Bad  Breath  Instantly 
—Guard  Against  Tooth  Decay  Longer! 

BRUSH  AS  OFTEN  AS  YOUR  DENTIST 
TELLS  YOU!  But  remember!  Even  if 
that's  only  once  a  day,  Colgate  Dental 
Cream  gives  the  surest  protection  all 
day  long!  Gardol,  Colgate's  wonderful 
new  decay-fighter,  forms  an  invisible 
shield  around  your  teeth  that  won't 
rinse  off  or  wear  off  all  day!  And 
Colgate's  stops  bad  breath  instantly 
in  7  out  of  10  cases  that  originate  in 
the  mouth!  Fights  tooth  decay  12 
hours  or  more!  Clinical  tests  showed 
the  greatest  reduction  in  decay  in 
toothpaste  history! 


Colgate's  Trade-Mark  For  Sodium 
N-Lauroyl  Sarcosinate. 


T       Every  Time  You  Use  It . . .  New  Colgate's 
»     CLEANS  YOUR  BREATH  While  it 
GUARDS  YOUR  TEETH! 


■ 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST 


{Continued  from  page  13) 
proposed  second  orthopedic  operation  as 
of  this  writing.  The  fact  is  that,  if  he 
wants  to  walk  again,  without  aid  of 
crutches  and  cane,  Arthur  will  definitely 
have  to  undergo  surgery. 

This   'n'  That: 

Marion  Marlowe  was  a  huge  success  in 
her  night-club  debut  at  the  Hotel  Pierre 
in  New  York.  Marion  took  a  month  off, 
with  the  Godfrey  blessing,  to  fulfill  this 
engagement  and  she  more  than  fulfilled 
expectations.  She  received  excellent  no- 
tices from  the  Manhattan  reviewers,  and 
though  she  is  still  very  much  a  part  of  the 
Godfrey  family  now,  there  has  been  some 
speculation  as  to  whether  she  still  will  be 
next  year.  The  demand  for  Marion  has 
increased  considerably,  and  there  are 
many  clubs  and  cafes  about  the  country 
who  would  like  to  present  her  "in  person." 
Marion,  by  the  way,  is  still  happily  en- 
gaged to  Larry  Puck,  co-producer  of 
Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts,  who 
helped   produce  her  act. 

Mahalia  Jackson  and  CBS  Radio  parted 
company  after  her  show  failed  to  attract 
any  sponsor  interest.  It  was  really  too 
bad,  as  the  gospel  singer  is  considered  by 
many  to  be  one  of  the  great  vocal  talents 
of  our  generation.  Meanwhile,  Mahalia  is 
set  to  appear  on  a  local  television  program 
on  Sunday  nights  in  Chicago. 

Ruth  Gilbert — better  known  as  Milton 
Berle's  lovesick  secretary,  Max — and  her 
husband  Emanuel  Feinberg  are  beaming 
over  the  recent  arrival  of  their  first  baby, 
a  girl  they've  named  Jamie.  Ruth  is  also 
happy  that  she  and  "Miltie"  straightened 
out  their  differences  and  that  she's  back 
on  the  show. 

Also  singing  lullabies  are  songstress 
Rosemary  Clooney  and  Jose  Ferrer.  Their 
stork  package  was  a  boy,  Miguel. 

Jane  Wyman  hasn't  definitely  signed 
anything  yet,  but  there's  a  big  television 
deal  cooking  for  her.  CBS-TV  originally 
wanted  her  for  a  series  of  thirty-nine  half- 
hour  shows  a  season,  but  she  turned  it 
down  because  of  her  heavy  movie  sched- 
ule. Now  it  appears  she  may  agree  to  do 
twelve  programs   a  year  instead. 


It's   a    boy,    Miguel    by    name,    for 
Rosemary  Clooney  and  Jose  Ferrer. 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Buzzell — she's  Lu  Ann 
Simms — will  become  parents  in  July. 


Congratulations  to  two  of  radio's  most 
popular  ladies — Rosemary,  who  just  start- 
ed her  eleventh  year  on  the  air,  and  Our 
Gal  Sunday,  eighteen  years  old  on  March 
29. 

Mulling  the  Mail: 

Mrs.  K.  L.,  Lemon  Grove,  Calif.:  The 
Seeking  Heart  has  been  off  television  for 
some  time,  and  there  are  no  present  plans 
for  its  return.  It  was  replaced  by  The 
Road  Of  Life,  which  has  become  quite 
popular.  .  .  .  Miss  M.  G.,  Peterborough, 
Ont,  Canada:  The  best  place  to  write  for 
a  picture  of  Perry  Como  is  c/o  CBS-TV, 
485  Madison  Avenue,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
Miss  E.  R.,  Vall'ejo,  Calif.:  Many  of  the 
questions  you  asked  are  answered  in  de- 
tail in  the  1955  TV  Radio  Annual,  which  is 
now  on  your  newsstand.  .  .  .  Mrs.  W.I.T., 
Marion,  O.:  Baritone  Bill  Lawrence  and 
baritone  Steve  Lawrence,  of  Steve  Allen's 
Tonight  show,  are  no  relation  whatsoever. 
.  .  .  Miss  J.  Y.,  Chicago,  111.:  Yes,  Mike 
Wallace  and  Buff  Cobb  have  separated, 
though  they  haven't  gone  through  with 
divorce  plans  as  yet.  ...  To  all  of  you  who 
wrote  about  the  Betty  White  Show  going 
off  NBC-TV:  Though  Betty's  program  was 
extremely  popular,  for  some  reason  the 
rating  didn't  please  the  sponsor  enough  to 
renew,  and  the  show  was  dropped.  Mean- 
while, Betty  is  continuing  with  her  filmed 
situation-comedy  show,  Life  With  Eliza- 
beth. .  .  .  Mrs.  M.K.,  Edmond,  Okla.: 
Gloria  Blondell  and  Joan  Blondell  are  real 
sisters,  and  the  two  shows  you  asked  about 
are  both  off  the  air  now.  .  .  .  Mrs.  F.  L., 
Detroit,  Mich.:  You  are  right,  and  will 
win  the  argument  with  your  friend.  Lib- 
erace's  mother's  legal  name  was  Mrs. 
Frances  Casadonte,  but  she  petitioned  in 
a  Los  Angeles  court  to  change  her  name 
back  to  Liberace,  the  name  of  her  first 
husband,  because  Mr.  Casadonte,  her  sec- 
ond husband,  is  deceased.  .  .  .  Mrs.  B.  B., 
Oakdale,  Pa.:  The  De  Marco  Sisters  only  I 
appear  on  television  occasionally  in  guest 
spots,  as  they  are  currently  touring  the 
night-club  circuit.  .  .  .  Mrs.  M.  S.,  Minne- 
apolis, Minn.:  There  are  plans  for  a  Fibber 
McGee  And  Molly  TV  show,  but  not  with 
Marian  and  Jim  Jordan.  Another  couple, 


TO  COAST 


June   Havoc,   star  of  Willy,  greets 
Sergeant  at  Los  Angeles  Dog  Show. 


still  unchosen,  will  portray  the  McGees. 
.  .  .  Mrs.  J.F.K.,  Crown  Point,  Ind.:  June 
Crosby  is  Bob  Crosby's  only  wife,  to  the 
best  of  my  knowledge,  and  all  of  their 
children  are  from  this  marriage.  ...  To 
all  who  wrote  asking  about  Dr.  Jim  Kelly 
on  The  Guiding  Light  TV  show:  Paul  Pot- 
ter, the  actor  who  portrays  the  role,  was 
off  the  program  for  three  weeks,  during 
which  time  he  was  replaced  by  another 
actor,  but  the  producers  of  the  show  tell 
me  the  character  of  Dr.  Kelly  is  a  perma- 
nent one  in  the  script  and  that  Paul  Potter 
will  appear  from  now  on. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  .  .  .? 

Sandra  Deel,  the  blonde  songstress  who 
originally  debuted  in  television  as  Johnny 
Desmond's  vocal  partner  on  the  old  Face 
The  Music  show  over  CBS-TV?  Sandra 
went  into  temporary  retirement  a  couple 
of  seasons  back  to  await  the  birth  of  her 
son,  Michael.  In  the  past  few  months  she 
has  been  back  at  work,  mainly  doing 
dramatic  roles  on  Kraft  TV  Theater, 
Danger,  and  similar  shows. 

Kenny  Delmar,  who  was  so  popular  sev- 
eral years  ago  on  the  old  Fred  Allen  show, 
when  he  was  the  humorous  Senator  Clag- 
horn?  Kenny  did  a  couple  of  Broadway 
shows,  and  then  did  many  TV  commer- 
cials, both  live  and  on  film.  Now  he  is 
back  on  radio,  playing  a  running  part  on 
The  Second  Mrs.  Burton.  Kenny  is  Buck 
Halliday,  a  middle-aged  romantic  charac- 
ter, a  part  written  especially  for  him. 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of  your 
favorite  people  or  programs,  or  wonder 
what  has  happened  to  someone  on  radio 
or  television,  drop  me  a  line — Miss  Jill 
Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd 
Street,  New  York  City  17,  N.  Y.,  and  I'll 
try  my  best  to  find  out  for  you  and  put 
the  information  in  the  column.  Unfor- 
tunately, we  don't  have  space  to  answer 
all  questions,  so  I  try  to  cover  those 
personalities  and  shows  about  whom  we 
receive  the  most  inquiries.  Sorry,  no 
personal  answers. 


m 


hat  good  is  a  pretty  hat. 


if  you  dorit  have  pretty  hair? 


Helene  Curtis  makes  even  the  dullest,  driest  hair 
sparkle  .  .  .  with  a  conditioner  for  hair  and  scalp  that 
brings  you  up  to  10  times  more  absorbable  lanolin! 

Those  new  Spring  hats  are  showing  a  lot  of  hair. 

So  maybe  it's  time  Helene  Curtis  lanolin  discovery* 
showed  up  on  your  dressing  table.   It  brings  you  100% 
absorbable  lanolin  which  returns  to  your  hair  the  same  kind 
of  natural  oil  that  was  lost  by  heat,  wind  or  water. 

Actually,  it's  up  to  10  times  more  effective  than  any  other 
hair  conditioner  and  beautifier  because  it  contains  up  to 
10  times  more  lanolin.  And  there  are  no  "filler"  oils  to  grease 
your  hair  or  make  you  lose  your  wave. 
Just  spray.  Brush.  Then  watch.  A  before- 
and-after  picture  happens  in  your  mirror ! 

And  we'll  bet  you  get  more  compliments 
on  your  hair  than  you  do  on  your  hats. 


i 

3- . 


N 


Regular  size  $1.25    New  large  economy  size  $1.89 

plus  tax 


t*  -^ 


j)i<6^ 


Unolin 
discovery 


'""n  Kta  wu.o"*-*" 


•  ^"^  Plus  'ax 

TiJlisM  (jrifa-  lanolin  discovery^ 

took  in  a  Hair!  •<$•  V '  t?*  ^S 


the  breath  of  life  for  li/e/ess  i 


# 


.7* 


•TRADEMARK 


V. 


PERIODIC  PAIN 

Menstruation  is  natural  and 
necessary  but  menstrual  suffer- 
ing is  not.  Just  take  a  Midol 
tablet,  Mary,  and  go  your  way 
in  comfort.  Midol  brings  faster 
relief  from  menstrual  pain— it 
relieves  cramps,  eases  head- 
ache and  chases  the  "blues."       7 


"WHAT  WOMEN  WANT  TO   KNOW" 

^^     a    24    page    book   explaining    menstruation 
f  is  yours,  FREE.  Write  Dep't  B-55,    Box  280, 

New  York  18,  N.  Y.  (Sent  in  plain  wrapper). 


>V 


26 


Out  of  the  Shadow 


(Continued  from  page  14) 
that  night,  and  sat  in  front  of  the  TV  set, 
Bob  said  to  June,  "Will  you  fix  me  an  ice 
bag,  honey?  I  think  my  sinus  is  back." 

June  now  says,  "I  thought  to  myself, 
'What  have  we  got  now?  He's  never,  in 
all  of  our  married  life,  complained  before.' 
I  was  always  the  one  who  was  sick.  So  I 
gave  him  the  ice  bag,  and  put  the  kids  to 
bed.  When  I  came  back  downstairs,  he 
was  in  bed  making  odd  chattering  noises. 

"  'I'm  so  cold,'  he  said,  'will  you  rub 
my  feet!' 

"  'I  don't  know  why  you  should  be 
cold,'  I  said.  'The  electric  blanket's  on,  the 
heat's  on.  The  only  thing  off  is  the  ice  bag!' 

"  'I  know,  but  I'm  so  cold,  I  can't  stand 
it.  I  can't  get  my  breath.' " 

June  said,  "Enough  of  this  feet-rubbing. 
I'm  going  to  take  your  temperature."  She 
did.  It  was  104.  She  called  the  doctor. 

When  the  doctor  arrived,  he  said, 
"You've  got  to  go  to  the  hospital.  I  can 
hear  fluid  in  your  lungs.  It  might  be 
lobar  pneumonia.  We'll  call  the  ambulance 
immediately." 

Bob  said,  "You'll  do  nothing  of  the  kind. 
I've  never  been  in  an  ambulance  in  my 
life.  I'll  fight  them." 

"All  right,"  said  the  doctor,  "I'll  give  you 
enough  medicine  to  carry  you  through  the 
night.  But  you'll  have  to  go  in  the  morning 
for  the  lab  work,  X-rays,  and  an  electro- 
cardiogram. You  need  hospital  attention." 

Bob  said,  "I  won't  need  anything  more 
than  this  medicine  you've  given  me.  You'll 
see.  I  won't  have  to  go  to  the  hospital." 

"In  the  morning,"  June  recalls,  "I  took 
his  temperature.  It  was  over  102.  I  called 
the  doctor  again." 

When  the  doctor  arrived,  Bob's  blood 
pressure  had  dropped,  his  temperature 
had  gone  up,  and  the  doctor  was  afraid 
he  was  going  into  shock.  So,  instead  of 
riding  in  a  quiet  ambulance,  Bob  went 
with  sirens  on.  "And  there  wasn't  much 
fight,  either,"  says  June,  "for  they  were 
giving  him  oxygen  all  the  way  in." 

When  he  arrived  at  the  hospital,  Bob 
earned  the  title  of  "Old  Ironsides."  They 
immediately  wanted  to  feed  him  intra- 
venously. But  he  had  such  thick  skin, 
they  couldn't  find  a  vein — and  had  to  put 
it  into  his  hand.  It  took  the  nurse,  lab 
technician,  intern,  doctor's  assistant,  and 
finally  the  doctor  to  get  the  needle  in  him. 


The  intravenous  feeding  lasted  two  days 
and  two  nights.  The  oxygen  treatment, 
four  days. 

The  children's  reactions  to  their  father's 
condition  were  mixed.  Cathy  was  most 
concerned,  because  on  Sunday  she  was  to 
leave  for  school  in  Switzerland.  When  the 
doctor  told  her  her  father  was  in  critical 
condition,  that  he  might  die,  she  cancelled 
her  reservation. 

"Chris  took  it  with  great  seriousness," 
says  June.  "He  was  my  constant  helper, 
and  Bob,  Jr.,  in  school  in  Anaheim,  took 
it  like  the  soldier  he  is.  'Yes,  Mom,'  he 
said.  'Yes,  Mom.  Okay,  I'll  say  some  pray- 
ers.' The  way  he  said  it  pulled  at  my  heart. 

"Young  Stevie  was  excited  because 
Daddy  got  to  ride  in  an  ambulance  like  I 
had  two  years  before.  But  he  said  he  liked 
the  color  of  my  ambulance  best.  And  little 
Malia  went  to  stay  with  my  mother. 

"I  don't  know  what  my  own  reaction 
was,"  June  sighs.  "It  was  like  being  run 
over  by  a  tractor.  I  was  always  the  weak 
one  in  the  family.  Bob,  on  the  other  hand, 
was  strong,  a  good  athlete.  He  never 
thought  anything  could  happen  to  him." 

When  the  hospital  identified  the  germ, 
the  doctor  came  in  to  tell  Bob  what  he 
had.  They  called  it  a  hemolytic  strepto- 
coccus— a  blood-eating  strep  germ.  In  the 
1920's  it  had  been  responsible  for  many 
deaths. 

Under  the  oxygen  mask,  not  even  able 
to  move  his  hand,  still  trying  to  make  him- 
self look  brave,  Bob  said:  "Wouldn't  you 
know  I'd  have  to  get  an  old-fashioned  kind 
of  pneumonia?" 

Bob's  own  reaction:  He  was  over- 
whelmed that  so  many  people  cared.  When 
the  mail  started  piling  in,  he  sat  back  with 
his  mouth  open.  When  he  was  finally  able 
to  sit  up  and  read,  he  said,  "My  goodness, 
they're  from  little  towns  all  over  the  coun- 
try! Can  you  imagine  people  thinking 
enough  of  me  to  send  all  these?  I  can't 
believe  it!" 

Now  that  Bob's  back  on  his  feet  again, 
June  reports  that  he's  telling  people:  "It 
was  nothing.  Really,  nothing  at  all."  It 
seems  as  if  he  couldn't  care  less. 

But  he  did  care  desperately  about  the 
letters  he  received  from  his  thousands 
of  well-wishing  friends  .  .  .  cared  more 
than  he  did  about  the  fact  itself — his  own 
near-brush  with  death. 


True  to  Himself 


(Continued  from  page  8) 
wherever  he  goes,  in  everything  he  does, 
to  further  sports  and  sportsmanship. 

Judging  from  the  amount  of  mail  he  re- 
ceives and  the  way  he  handles  it,  Mel  is 
fulfilling  that  aim  admirably.  No  matter 
what  kind  of  letter  he  receives — compli- 
menting or  criticizing  his  work,  request- 
ing an  autographed  baseball  or  advice  on 
how  to  become  a  sports  announcer — Mel 
always  tries  to  be  as  honest  and  as  helpful 
as  possible.  Naturally,  he  enjoys  getting 
letters  of  praise  and,  similarly,  he  wel- 
comes letters  of  criticism.  "I  try  to  prove 
to  people  that  I'm  not  always  right,"  he 
says,  and  he  encourages  them  to  tell  him 
when  he's  wrong.  Very  often  when  some- 
one writes  him  that  he's  gotten  into  a  rut, 
Mel  realizes  they  are  right  and  it  usually 
helps  him  to  snap  out  of  it.  When  it  comes 
to  requests  for  autographed  baseballs  and 
the  like,  Mel  explains  frankly  that  he  re- 
ceives too  many  to  fill — and  besides, 
there's  an  American  League  rule  against  it. 
But  he  is  always  willing  to  give  advice  to 


would-be  sports  announcers,  though  most 
of  the  time  he  feels  a  letter  is  inadequate 
for  telling  them  all  he  would  like  to.  Nev- 
ertheless, he  always  tries  to  do  his  best. 

Just  as  important  to  Mel  as  answering 
his  mail  is  being  honest  and  sincere  in 
what  he  says.  And  he  explains  why:  "The 
basic  thing  in  announcing  is  being  accu- 
rate, and  accuracy  means  honesty.  You 
should  apply  this  principle  to  everything 
you  do."  Similarly,  Mel  is  always  striving 
to  be  honest  with  himself.  He  has  never 
had  any  feeling  of  self-importance — "at 
least  I  don't  think  I  do,"  he  says.  He  en- 
joys getting  together  with  people  and  be- 
ing considered  just  one  of  the  crowd.  And, 
as  he  always  tries  to  "level"  with  them,  so 
he  wants  them  to  do  the  same  with  him. 

The  result  of  his  fine  beliefs  and  prac- 
tices has  been  a  wonderful  life  for  Mel, 
one  he  has  always,  and  continues  to,  enjoy 
to  the  fullest.  In  all  this,  plus  his  genius 
for  adding  color,  excitement  and  meaning 
to  sports,  Mel  continues  to  be  a  living 
symbol  of  sportmanship  at  its  best. 


Edward  R.  Murrow 


(Continued  from  page  6) 
read  of  Ed's  CBS  salary  and  remarked  dry- 
ly: "I  don't  reckon  there's  anything  dis- 
honest about  making  money  that  way,  but 
I  must  say  Ed  doesn't  talk  any  more  sense 
than  I  hear  all  the  time  at  the  corner 
store."  His  mother,  a  tiny,  blue-eyed  ex- 
schoolteacher,  once  noted  that  Ed  looked 
tired,  told  him  to  take  better  care  of  his 
health,  and  then  added,  "But  after  all,  son, 
maybe  it's  better  to  wear  out  than  to  rust 
out." 

Some  time  ago,  a  group  of  CBS  newsmen 
organized  a  "We  Don't  Think  Murrow  Is 
God"  club.  All  members  were  elected 
vice  presidents.  The  presidency  was  left 
open  for  Janet  Murrow — who,  though  still 
starry-eyed  about  her  urbane,  six-foot- 
one  husband,  doesn't  believe  blind  adora- 
tion is  the  way  to  help  any  man.  It  is 
typical  that  most  of  the  newsmen  are  now 
staunch  Murrow  admirers.  It  is  typical 
also  that,  as  soon  as  he  heard  of  the  club, 
Ed  asked  if  he  could  join. 

Transportation  has  been  important  in  Ed 
Murrow's  life.  Born  in  North  Carolina,  Ed 
grew  up  in  Washington  where  he  worked 
after  school  and  during  vacations  on  a  tim- 
ber cruiser  and  driving  the  school  bus.  He 
went  on  the  air  for  the  first  time  when  he 
chartered  a  plane,  then  hopped  a  streetcar 
in  Vienna,  and  got  there  in  time  to  de- 
scribe the  arrival  of  Nazi  troops  in  1938. 
It  was  on  a  train  that  he  met  his  wife  Janet, 
whom  he  calls  "Kuchen"  (German  for 
cook)  and  whose  criticism  is  the  only  one 
he  fears.  Once,  on  a  train  to  Washington, 
Ed  happened  to  meet  the  owner  of  the 
"log  cabin"  on  Quaker  Hill  in  Pawling, 
New  York.  Right  then  Ed  decided  that  was 
the  only  house  in  the  East  he  wanted  to 
own.  Ed  bought  the  house  without  ever 
having  been  inside  it  and,  while  it  is  not 
exactly  a  cabin — it  has  three  bedrooms  and 
an  electric  dishwasher — it  is  made  of  logs. 
He  bought  it  because  of  his  "best  friend," 
nine-year-old  son  Charles  Casey,  and  be- 
cause "I  swore  that  I  wouldn't  raise  a  boy 
in  New  York  City." 

Ed  cares  about  trees  the  way  many  men 
do  about  dogs.  His  house  is  surrounded  by 
evergreens,  including  one  he  planted  for 
Casey  with  the  half -smiling  admonition  to 
grow  "straight  and  strong"  like  the  tree. 
Fishing  and  hunting  with  Casey,  or  work- 
ing together  with  him  on  the  farm,  Ed  is 
completely  relaxed.  The  boy  is  a  true  Mur- 
row, with  a  mind  of  his  own  and  a  zest  for 
arguing  about  politics  and  baseball.  "He's 
a  logical  little  fellow,"  Ed  smiles.  "About 
the  only  thing  I've  ever  known  him  to  do 
without  thinking  is  to  become  a  Yankee 
fan."    Ed's  choice:   The  Brooklyn  Dodgers. 

One  of  Ed's  hobbies  is  golf,  and  though 
he  is  normally  right-handed,  he  holds  the 
clubs  left-handed.  He  has  a  photographic 
memory  but  he  generally  forgets  anniver- 
saries. He's  the  rare  man  who  enjoys  wear- 
ing dinner  jackets  although,  he  explains 
apologetically,  "It's  a  dying  custom."  His 
ideal  meal,  a  friend  once  remarked,  would 
be  a  candlelight  and  silver  setting — and  a 
cheeseburger.  He  helps  himself  off  to  sleep 
with  detective  stories  but,  he  adds,  "You 
learn  things  from  them,  too.  I  remember 
one  in  which  the  hero  always  made  a  point 
each  day  to  do  two  things  which  he  did  not 
want  to  do.  .  .  .  One  was  to  get  up,  and 
the  other  was  to  go  to  bed.  I'm  like  that 
guy." 

Material  possessions  are  unimportant  to 
Ed.  He  has  no  scrapbook  and  has  never 
kept  clippings.  The  only  photographs  in  his 
office  are  one  of  Casey  and  one  of  Carl 
Sandburg,  whom  Ed  admires  greatly.  The 
poet  inscribed  the  picture:  "To  Ed  Mur- 
row, reporter,  historian,  inquirer,  actor, 
ponderer,  seeker." 


New  Play  tex 


Bra 


OF  ELASTIC  AND  NYLON 

"Custom-contoured"  to  flatter,  feel  and 
fit  as  if  fashioned  for  you  alone  ...  no 
matter  what  size  or  in-between  size  you 
are/  The  secret  is  in  the  bias  cut  elastic- 
side  panel  that  self-adjusts  to  your  meas- 
urements. The  drama  is  in  the  nylon  cups 
that  lift  and  lure  into  the  high,  round  look 
of  Paris.  The  magic  is  the  Playtex  Living 
Bra  . . .  the  most  fitting,  most  beautifying, 
fastest  selling  bra  in  America/  See  it — 
you'll  want  it/  Wear  it— you'll  love  it/ 


Ab, 


Look  for  the  PLAYTEXt  LIVINGt  BRA*  in  the  heavenly 
blue  package  at  department  stores  and  specialty  shops  everywhere. 
In  gleaming  WHITE,  wonderfully  washable— without  ironing.' 

Sizes  32A-40C  $3.95  tTrademark      »U.S.A.  and  foreign  patents  pending 

©  1955  International  Latex  Corporation  . .  PLAYTEX  PARK . .  Dover  Del 
In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd.  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont. 


$ft 


27 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


7199— The  long,  full  skirt  of  this  doll 
will  keep  your  electric  mixer  spotless.   Use 
colorful   remnants.    Pattern   pieces, 
transfers,    directions   for    mixer-cover.    250 

710 — She'll  be  party-pretty  in  her  whirl- 
skirted    dress.    Use    remnants.    Add    perky 
bows,   embroidery.     Pattern    pieces, 
embroidery   motifs,   directions.    Children's 
Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8,  10.    State  size.    250 

859 — Protect  and  beautify  your  chairs 
with  this  set  in  pineapple  design  and  spider 
web.   Make  a  matching  buffet  set.   Chair 
back,  12"  x  18";  arm  rest,  8"  x  10",  in 
No.  30  cotton.  Easy  to  crochet.  250 


7067 — Crochet  this  heirloom  beauty  in 
pineapple  design  and  plain  mesh.  Easy-to- 
memorize  pattern;  easy  to  crochet.  Cloth, 
64-inches  square  in  heavy  4-ply  cotton.  250 

700 — Apron  jumper,  or  sundress.   Wrap 
'n'  tie  to  cinch  waist.  Note  luscious  lily — 
a  pocket.  Sizes  Small   (10,  12)  ;  Medium 
(14,  16)  ;  Large  (18,  20).  Pattern  pieces, 
embroidery  motif.    State  size.    250 

533 — Adorable   picture-sampler   to    help 
your  little  angel  remember  his  prayers. 
Letters  are  large,  easy  to  read.   "Now  I 
Lay  Me"  prayer  transfer,  I6V2"  x  18".  250 


Send  twenty-five  cents    <in  coins)    for  each  pattern  to:  TV   Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,   P.  O. 
New  York  11,  New  York.    Add  jive  cents  for  each  pattern  for   first-class  mailing.    Send  an  additional 


Box 

250 


Chelsea   Station, 
lecraft  Catalog. 


she's  got 


(you  can  have  it,  too!) 


It's  not  so  much  beauty  as  it  is  personal  vibrancy  and  sparkle,  and  all 
those  indefinable  qualities  that  make  everyone  instantly  aware  of  her. 

For  now  there's  a  new  lipstick  that  brings  out  all  the  vividness  and  sparkle  of 
the  real  you  with  exciting  colors  that  make  you  look  and  feel  vividly  alive.    It"s  the 
new  VIV  lipstick  bv  Toni.  VIV's  new  High-Chroma  Formula  gives  vou  the  most 
vivid  colors  any  woman  has  ever  worn.  Choose  from  six  bright  shades,  each  as 
sparkling  as  the  Vivid  Rose  you  see  here.  Try  VIV,  that  \i\id  new  lipstick  by    Toni. 

Comfortable,  long-lasting  and  very,  very  vivid. 


new  viv  lipstick 

"TBI" 


plus 
lax 


Tlrc  GilMtv  <'... 


Behind 
the  Story 


FAVORITE   RADIO  SPORTSCASTER 

Bill,    your  first   sportscasting   choice   when   the   TVRM 
poll  began  eight  years  ago,  now  wins  his  sixth  Award. 


Bill  Stern  finds  drama  and  humor 

behind  sports  events — but 

his  best  stories  are  about  himself 


i^^^HM 


Once    a    three-letter    athlete,    Bill    enjoys    golf    with    such 
celebrity-friends    as    Bob    Hope;    also    likes    motorcycling. 


It's  hard  to  imagine  Bill  Stern  at  a 
loss  for  words.  For  twenty  years, 
the  colorful,  trigger-quick  sports- 
caster  has  been  calling  the  plays  as 
fast  as  they  happen  in  every  major 
sports  event  across  the  country.  Bill's 
also  been  calling  the  drama  behind 
those  events,  the  strange  quirks  of 
fate — sometimes  funny,  often  tragic — 
that  have  been  played  on  the  men 
who  make  the  sports  headlines.  His 
trademark  has  become  the  surprise- 
ending  true  story  that  is  stranger 
than  any  fiction.  His  memory  is 
ciammed  with  recollections  of  the 
greats  and  near-greats  of  sports.  But 
if  he  tells  stories  on  these  figures, 
Bill  is  not  above  telling  one  on  him- 
self. One  of  his  favorites  is  of  the 
time  he  found  himself  speechless. 


It  was  back  in  1939,  during  a  thrill- 
ing race  at  the  Indianapolis  Speed- 
way. Floyd  Roberts  had  won  the  race 
the  year  before  and  he  was  the  fa- 
vorite to  win  again.  Broadcasting 
from  near  the  finish  line,  Bill's  voice 
transmitted  the  excitement  and  ten- 
sion felt  by  everyone  at  the  Speed- 
way. He  talked  of  Floyd  Roberts  and 
his  bright-red  car.  He's  the  easiest 
driver  in  the  world  to  follow,  Bill  was 
saying.  "He  has  a  heavy  foot  on  the 
gas  pedal  that  you  can't  miss.  Floyd 
Roberts  is  unmistakable."  The  red 
car  was  out  in  front  and  Bill  went  on 
talking  of  the  distinct  driving  style 
that  made  Roberts  so  easy  to  spot 
until,  suddenly,  he  felt  someone  tap 
his  shoulder.  He  turned  around  to 
see  the  grinning  face  of- — Floyd  Rob- 


erts. During  one  of  the  refueling 
stops,  Floyd's  mechanic  had  taken  his 
place  at  the  wheel.  "It  was  one  time 
in  my  career,"  Bill  laughs  now, 
"when  I  had  a  mouthful  of  nothing." 
But  Bill  had  plenty  to  say — mostly 
in  embarrassed  explanations — when 
he  found  himself  at  the  laughing  end 
of  a  joke  played  during  a  Vanderbilt- 
Alabama  football  game.  Both  teams 
were  undefeated,  the  winner  would 
go  to  the  Rose  Bowl,  and  both  bands 
were  blaring  "California,  Here  I 
Come!"  The  game  was  to  be  broad- 
cast from  two  small  booths  and,  the 
night  before  the  game,  an  unknown 
— hitherto  unsung — comic  painted 
both  booths  as  crimson  as  the  Ala- 
bama uniforms.  On  the  front  of  Ted 
Husing's   CBS   booth,   the    wag   had 


Sports  Today  II  ith  Bill  Stern,  ABC  Hadio,  M-F,  6:30  P.M.  EST  (WABC,  6:45  P.M.),  is  sponsored  by  Budweiser  Beer  and  Allstate  Insurance. 


lettered  "Men."  On  the  door  of  Bill's 
NBC  booth  was  the  legend  "Women." 
The  paint  was  still  wet  as  Bill  went  on 
the  air,  alternately  calling  the  football 
plays  and  trying  to  explain  to  coeds  that 
the  powder  room  was  to  be  found  else- 
where. 

These  are  the  stories  Bill  will  tell  on 
himself.  However,  he  rarely  talks  about 
the  most  dramatic  story  of  all.  Bill,  then 
a  fledgling  announcer,  had  been  fired 
from  NBC  in  New  York  for  trying  too 
hard  to  impress  his  bosses.  He  was  an- 
nouncing in  Texas  when,  one  day  driv- 
ing home  from  a  football  game,  he  was 
in  an  auto  accident.  Bill's  leg  had  to  be 
amputated  and,  for  him — once  a  three- 
letter  man — the  loss  of  his  leg  meant 
the  loss  of  the  will  to  live.  Then  came  a 
visit — and  an  offer  of  a  job — from  the 
NBC  vice-president  who  had  fired  him. 
Bill  will  never  forget  the  man  who  had 
renewed  his  will  to  live.  Today,  he  fore- 
goes Saturdays  with  his  family  to  visit 
hospitalized  veterans.  He  seeks  out 
those  who  have  given  up  hope,  as  he 
himself  once  had,  devotes  his  time  to 
renewing  their  courage  and  faith. 

Bill  talks  with  pride  of  his  family  and 
their  lovely  home  in  Purchase,  New 
York.  He  met  his  wife  Harriet  at  a 
resort  in  Charlevoix,  Michigan.  She 
was  a  distant  relative  and  Bill's  mother 
had  asked  him  to  "Please  be  nice  to 
her."  Bill  was  leery  until  he  met  Har- 
riet and  found  the  request  the  easiest 
one  in  the  world  to  fill.  They  have 
three  children:  Peter,  a  fourteen-year- 
old  sportsman;  Mary,  an  eleven-year- 
old  pianist-in-the-bud;  and  four-year- 
old  Patty,  who  "would  rather  listen 
to  The  Lone  Ranger."  Completing  the 
household  are  Trixie,  a  wire-haired  ter- 
rier, and  her  children:  Michael  and 
Carla.  It's  a  quiet,  happy  home,  a  far 
cry  from  Bill's  jet-paced  career.  But 
for  Bill  Stern,  this  home  is  the  most 
wonderful  story  of  all. 


Bill    warms    up    for    his    broadcasts 
by    checking    over    spork    records 


Yes,  Cyd  Charisse  uses  Lustre- 
Creme  Shampoo.  It's  the  favorite  of 
4  out  of  5  top  Hollywood  movie  stars! 

It  never  dries  your  hair!  Lustre- 
Creme  Shampoo  is  blessed  with  lanolin 
.  .  .  foams  into  rich  lather,  even  in 
hardest  water  .  .  .  leaves  hair 
so  easy  to  manage. 

It  beautifies!  For  soft,  bright,  fra- 
grantly clean  hair — without  special 
after-rinses — choose  the  shampoo  of 
America's  most  glamorous  women. 
Use  the  favorite  of  Hollywood  movie 
stars — Lustre-Creme  Shampoo. 


44)?&iurM(sjM/&ifc  Lustre  Creme  Shampoo 

Never  Dries- 
it  Beautifies ! 


/^co-starring  in  IT'S  ALWAYS  FAIR  WEATHER 


An  M-G-M  Production.  In  CinemaScope  and  Color. 


■ 


YOUR   SKIN    WILL    LOV 


"There's  nothing  like  it," 

says  Mrs.  Charles  J.  Gossner, 

a  radiant  Camay  Bride. 

"Cold  cream  Camay  is  the  perfect 

beauty  soap  as  far  as 

I'm  concerned.  It's  so  mild  and 

gentle  on  my  skin.  And  so 

delightfully  fragrant!" 


like, 


I 


Let  It  help  vou 

to  »  softer,  fresher, 

more  radiant  complexion ! 


New  millions  have  tried  it!  New  millions  love  it!  Your  precious 

complexion,  loo,  deserves  Camay's  Caressing  Care.  With  that  famous 

skin-pampering  mildness,  luxurious  lather,  and  exclusive  fragrance, 

it's  no  wonder  cold  cream  Camay  is  the  beauty  secret 

of  SO  many  exquisite  brides.  Let  its  gentle  touch  caress  your  skin 

to  new  loveliness.  Change  to  regular  care . . .  use  Camay  alone.  Your  skin 

u  ill  become  sober,  smoother  with  your  first  cake.  And  remember, 

you  get  the  added  luxury  of  hue  cold  cream  in  Camay  at  no  extra  cost. 

For  your  beauty  and  your  bath,  there's  no  finer  soap  in  all  the  world! 


THE  SOAP 


F  BEAUTIFUL  WOMEN 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

Award  Winners,  1954-55 


FAVORITE  RADIO  DAYTIME  VARIETY  PROGRAM 

Repeater:  Winning   your  Award   is.  a  seven-year  habit  with 
Don  McNeill's  Breakfast  Club,  each  .morning  on  ABC  Radio. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  MUSICAL  PROGRAM 

Newcomer:  It's  a  first  gold  medal  for  CBS  Radio's  Tennessee 
Ernie  Show,  with  songs  by  Tennessee  Ernie  and  Joan  O'Brien. 


You,  the  readers,  elected 

this  issue's  stars  and  programs 

in  our  eighth  annual  poll ! 


For  the  eighth  time,  audiences  of 
America  have  voiced  their  opinions  of 
the  past  season's  TV  and  radio 
fare — in  the  only  nationwide  poll  decided 
by  the  listeners  and  viewers  them- 
selves!   TV  Radio  Mirror  is  proud  to 
have  given  you  this  opportunity,  proud  to 
present  its  coveted  gold  medals  to  the 
stars  and  programs  you  have  chosen. 
Once  again,  your  selections  of  TV  Radio 
Mirror  Award  Winners  prove  that — 
though  formats   and   styles   and   tastes 
may  vary — audiences  still  have  an  eye  for 
talent,  an  ear  for  sincerity,  and  a  heart 
that  remembers  cherished  friends. 

There  are  both  newcomers  and  old 
favorites  among  those  being  honored  here 
for  the  first  time.   You — who  voted  for 
him   in   such  overwhelming   numbers — ■ 
will  hardly  be  surprised  that  the 
smiling  Pied  Piper  of  the  Piano  has 
won  his  first  TVRM  gold  medal  for  The 
Liberace  Show,  as  the  best  musical 
program  on  TV.   Or  that  Tennessee  Ernie 
Ford — whose  records  and  guest 
appearances  have  long  made  him  welcome 
with  listeners  everywhere — has  now 
won  the  corresponding  radio  Award  for 

Continued  >■ 


33 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR 


FAVORITE  RADIO  PANEL  PROGRAM 

Make  Up  Your  Mind:  John  S.  Young,  Edith  Walton,  panelists; 
Gen.  Mark  Clark,  celebrity-guest;  and  emcee  Jack  Sterling. 


his  Tennessee  Ernie  Show  on  CBS.    George  Gobel, 
NBC's  rapid-rising  young  humorist,  triumphed  as 
your  favorite  TV  comedian  for  1954-55.  His  strongest 
personal  competition  came  from  previous  Award 
winner  Jackie  Gleason — who  still  added  to  his 
medals,  when  The  Jackie  Gleason  Show  was  named 
your  favorite  TV  comedy.   Martha  Raye,  your 
choice  as  top  TV  comedienne,  repeats  her 
performance  of  last  year,  surpassing  Lucille  Ball 
by  only  the  width  of  a  smile.   Amos  V  Andy,  which 
has  always  ranked  high  in  the  polls,  finally  crossed 
the  tape  ahead  of  all  competitors  to  win  its  first 
Award  as  the  best  comedy  on  radio.  While  creators 
Gosden  and  Correll  have  been  proving  their  own 
unfaltering  ingenuity  and  showmanship  with  their 
brand-new  Amos  V  Andy  Music  Hall,  the 
continued  success  of  their  situation  comedy — which 
has  passed  the   quarter-century   mark — proves 
that  the  listener-voters  are  still  faithful  to  many 
"twenty-year  veterans"  of  broadcasting. 

Jack  Benny,  for  instance,  who's  been  on  the  air 
for  a  good  proportion  of  his  admitted  39  years, 
is  your  favorite  radio  comedian.  This  is  Jack's  fourth 
Award,  tying  the  quadruple  honors  already  won 
by  Bob  Hope,  who  was  his  closest  rival  this  year, 
too.   An  obviously  prettier  and  more  youthful 

Continued  >■ 


FAVORITE  RADIO  EVENING  COMEDY  PROGRAM 

Amos  'n'  Andy:   Freeman  Gosden  and  Charles  Correll  have 
long  delighted  listeners — and  recently  added  a  Music  Hall! 


FAVORITE  RADIO  QUIZ  PROGRAM 

Strike  It  Rich:   No  stranger  to  our  winners'   circle,  the 
Warren  Hull  heartwarmer  earns  still  another  gold  medal. 


34 


Award  Winners,  1954-55 


FAVORITE  TV  CHILDREN'S  PROGRAM* 

Kukla,  Fran  And  Ollie  wins  for  the  fifth  consecutive  year!  Center,  Fran  Allison  and  her  more-than-puppet  playmates.  Behind 
them,  creator  Burr  Tillstrom.  Right,  producer  Beulah  Zachary.  Left,  assistant  Joseph  Loclcwood  and  pianist  Carolyn  Gilbert. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  MYSTERY-ADVENTURE  PROGRAM 

Gunsmoke,  a  real  Saturday  double-feature  (noon  and  night),  merits  its  first  TVRM  medal  for  its  documentary-style  dramas  of 
the  Old  West,  with  virile  acting  by  Bill  Conrad  as  Marshal  Matt  Dillon,  Parley  Baer  as  Chester,  Howard  McNear  as  "Doc." 


35 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR 


FAVORITE  RADIO  DAYTIME  DRAMA  ACTOR 

James  Lipton — alias  Dr.  Dick  Grant  of  radio's  and  TV's 
The  Guiding  Light — leads  the  field  for  his  first  medal. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  DAYTIME  DRAMA  ACTRESS 

Jan  Miner — the  beloved  Julie  of  Hilltop  House — tops 
all  other  daytime  heroines  for  the  fifth  consecutive  year! 


FAVORITE  TV  QUIZ  PROGRAM 

Herb  Shriner's  Hoosier  wit  and  fast-talking  contestants 
help  Two  For  The  Money  add  to  its  radio-TV  Awards. 


"veteran"  is  Eve  Arden,  whose  present  Award  marks 
the  seventh  straight  year  she's  won  as  your  favorite 
radio  comedienne — practically  from  the  first  season 
Our  Miss  Brooks  took  to  the  air! 

The  Lone  Ranger  rode  to  victory  as  favorite 
children's  program  on  radio,  after  22  years.    It  has 
been  close  on  the  heels  of  earlier  winners,  but 
has  captured  only  one  previous  TVRM  Award  (for 
TV).   The  Lone  Ranger  is  aired  on  no  less  than 
four  networks — ABC  and  Canadian  radio,  ABC-TV 
and  CBS-TV — so  the  daring  masked  rider  is  sure 
to  give  all  contenders  a  real  run  for  their  medals 
from  now  on.     Both  the  TVRM  poll  and 
professional  surveys  reveal  that  The  Lone  Ranger 
has  at  least  as  many  grown-up  fans  as  youthful 
followers — if  not  more! — which  is  also  true  of  Kukla, 
Fran  And  Ollie,  your  choice  as  the  best  children's 
program  on  TV.    This  is  the  fifth  consecutive 
Award  to  Kukla,  Fran  And  Ollie,  which  has  been 
having  a  banner  year,  now  that  creator  Burr 
Tillstrom  has  the  kind  of  fifteen-minutes-a-day 
schedule  on  which  his  pixie  characters  thrive. 

Breakjast  Club,  which  was  already  on  the  air  for 
two  decades  before  it  (Continued  on  page  108) 


36 


Award  Winners,  1954-55 


FAVORITE  RADIO  DAYTIME  DRAMA 

The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent  makes  it  two-in-a-row,  thanks  to  the  listeners'  votes,  an  absorbing  plot,  and  believable  per- 
formances by  David  Gothard  as  Gil  Whitney,  Cathleen  Cordell   as  Gwen  Sewell — and  star  Julie  Stevens  as  Helen  Trent. 


37 


the  greatest  TALENT  SCOUT 


By 

MARTIN 

COHEN 


Some  say  he's  Mr.  CBS  in  person — but, 
anyway,  he  was  on  CBS,  as  usual,  broad- 
casting and  telecasting  his  morning  show, 
when  a  fly  came  out  of  nowhere,  circled  his 
head,  buzzed  his  nose,  and  led  Arthur  Godfrey 
to  say:  "There's  that  spy  from  NBC.  Will 
someone  please  hand  me  a  fly  swatter?   What 


happened  to  my  fly  swatter?  Lost?   It  is. 
bad." 

In  the  next  few  days,  fly  swatters  came  in 
from  every  part  of  the  country.  They  were 
made  of  everything  but  mink  and  platinum. 
Some  were  crocheted,  some  were  engraved 
with  Arthur's  name,  (Continued  on  page  106) 


Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts,  CBS  Radio  and  CBS-TV,  Mon.,  8:30  P.M.,  for  Lipton  Tea  and  Lipton  Soups.  Marion 
Marlowe  and  Frank  Parker  sing  on:  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  A.M.,  and  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30 
A.M.  (multiple  sponsorship)—  Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M.,  for  Pillsbury  Mills,  Frigid- 
aire,  and  The  Toni  Co. — Arthur  Godfrey's  Digest,  CBS  Radio,  Fri.,  8:30  P.M.  (multiple  sponsorship) .  All  times  EST. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  EVENING  VARIETY  PROGRAM 


of  all 


FAVORITE   RADIO   FEMALE   SINGER 
and  FAVORITE  TV  FEMALE  SINGER 


FAVORITE  TV  MALE  SINGER 

Arthur  Godfrey's  weekday  and  Wednesday- 
night  shows  feature  Marion  Marlowe  and 
Frank  Parker,  who  this  year  continued  to 
add  to  their  collection  of  TVRM   medals! 


7* 


Living  and  giving,  she  breathes 
a  prayer  of  thanks  for  being  a 
star,  a  woman,  wife  and  mother 

By  DEE  PHILLIPS 


I   think  that  our  every  act,  and  every 
word  we  speak,  may  in  some  way 
influence  someone  else.    I  believe  we 
should  be  true  to  ourselves,  true  to  the 
best  we  have  in  us.  I  believe  in  society's 
moral  conventions,  because  they  cannot 
be  violated  without  hurting  someone. 
I  believe  that  the  finest  friendships, 
happiest  marriages,  and  the  happiest  lives 
stem  from  being  eager  to  give,  rather 
than  from  being  eager  to  take." 

This  personal  philosophy  of  Loretta 
Young's  has,  in  every  way,  permeated 
the  television  show  to  which  millions  turn, 
each  week  on  NBC.    They  turn  for 
enjoyment,  perhaps  not  consciously 
feeling  they  expect  good  drama,  good 
acting  . .  .  and  good  taste.  But,  at  the  end 
of  the  show,  when  Loretta  ties  the  story 
into  a  neat  package  with  a  bit  of 
philosophy  from  the  Bible,  Shakespeare 
or  the  great  philosophers,  the  world 
seems  a  little  more  believable,  human 
nature  more  understandable,  and  the 
miracles  which  surround  us  more 
probable. 

"I  am  in  the  extraordinary  position  of 
being  able  to  project  principles  which 
I  hold  dear,"  explains  the  vivacious  Miss 
Young.    Fortunately,  Tom  Lewis,  her 
husband  and  (Continued  on  page  103) 

Loretta  stars  in  her  own  Loretta  Young  Show  over 
NBC-TV,  Sundays,  at  10  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by 
The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Tide  and  Gleem. 


FAVORITE  TV  EVENING  DRAMA  ACTRESS 


-AT  HEART 


Every  Sunday,  Loretta  and  her  husband,  Tom  Lewis, 
set  out  for  church  together.  They  carry  their  high 
moral  principles  into  the  drama  series,  too — as  in  the 
Girl   Scout  story  which   their  sponsor  distributed   free. 


' 


7 


F*18** 


^^■wfll*^.; 


r-jj^- 


A 


/ 


y^ 


FAVORITE  TV  COMEDIENNE 

The  most  important  girl  .in  Martha's  own  life  is,  of  course,  her  daughter  Melodye. 


Today,  when  Martha  sends  invitations,  everyone  accepts.  (That  one  tragic  night  is  gone — but  not  forgotten.) 
And,  when  well-wishers  throw  a  party  for  Martha,  everybody  gathers  to  watch  her  cut  the  congratulatory  cake. 


' 

A     Jkt. 

■£*-H 

% 

■,    V> 

1 

f  * 

r  * 

£&£. 

s   ■  ^c 

J^r7 

*£l 

.-_> 

~*w;^  -       V^Si 

Martha  Raye's  the  gay  clown  we.  all  love — the  warmhearted  woman  two  men  will  never  forget 


By  PHILIP  CHAPMAN 


IT  doesn't  pay  to  take  your  eyes  off  Martha  Raye 
for  very  long,  because — when  you  do  look  again 
— so  much  has  happened,  you  have  to  crowd 
three  or  four  stories  into  one.    Just  look  at  what 
the  lady  has  accomplished  in  the  short  while  since 
I  last  wrote  about  her: 

She  got  herself  on  the  front  pages  by  chartering 
two  planes  and  flying  off  to  marry  her  fifth  husband 
in  the  dead  of  night. 


She  managed  to  keep  topping  herself  so  con- 
sistently that  her  TV  show  is  one  of  the  best-rated 
hours  on  any  network,  a  tremendous  achievement 
for  any  sensitive  star. 

She  bought  and  redecorated — with  her  new  hus- 
band, Ed  Begley — the  dream  house  she  has  always 
wanted  in  Connecticut. 

And,  as  if  this  weren't  enough,  she  and  Ed  went 
to  Bimini  on  a  friend's    {Continued  on  page  86) 


The  Martha  Raye  Show,  NBC-TV,  various  Tuesdays,  8  PM,  EST,  for  Hazel  Bishop  Lasting  Lipstick,  Nail  Polish,  Complexion  Glow. 


Home's  a  quiet,  happy  place  for  Martha  and  her  new  husband,  dancer-choreographer  Ed  Begley  (left).  And  there's 
still  a  steady,  enduring  friendship  between  Martha  and  Nick  Condos  (right),  her  business  manager — and  ex-husband. 


**&*<* 


<ixm*t«mmmt: 


m 


"*^~*~"*rtfmnimp 


. r"  mmmm*m*mmimiim 


K 


■»"'»"wiiWlW#i)w»<«ii^ 


"IIWIMM 


Mary  Stuart  as  Joanne  Barron, 
Terry   O'Sullivan   as  Arthur  Tate, 
and  Search  For  Tomorrow,  the 
beloved  serial  in  which  they  star, 
make  it  a  clean  sweep  of  all 
three  TV  daytime  drama  gold  medals. 


'QmwA /w '&mu 


Tomorrow  will  be  better,  Joanne  Barron  had  told 
herself  through  the  grim  yesterdays  just  passed. 
Then,  it  had  been  a  prayer.  But  today,  as  she  looks 
about  her  at  the  Motor  Haven,  Arthur  Tate  is  at  her 
side,  her  little  daughter  Patti  plays  happily,  and  Joanne 
can  look  to  a  tomorrow  that  will  dawn  bright  and  shin- 
ing with  hope.  .  .  .  Yet  it  had  taken  all  of  Joanne's  faith 
not  to  lose  courage  in  the  dark  days  of  her  trial  for  the 
murder  of  the  woman  who  had  posed  as  Arthur's  wife. 
Joanne  and  her  lawyer,  Nathan  Walsh,  had  been  able 
to  see  little  possibility  of  her  acquittal — until  Arthur 
uncovered  the  trail  of  the  real  criminal.  .  .  .  But,  in  try- 
ing to  capture  the  murderer,  Arthur  had  been  almost 
fatally  shot  and,  finally,  on  the  brink  of  death,  he  had 
identified  Mortimer  Higbee — the  "little  man"  who  hadn't 
stopped  even  at  murder  in  his  scheme  to  take  over  the 
Motor  Haven.  Thus  Joanne  had  been  cleared.  .  .  .  Ar- 
thur's heart  had  actually  stopped  beating  from  the  bullet 
wound  he  received,  but  the  physician — by  massaging 
Arthur's  heart — had  managed  to  bring  him  back  to  life. 
.  .  .  Arthur  and  the  widowed  Joanne  had  been  about  to 
marry  when  the  woman  falsely  claiming  to  be  his  wife 
Hazel  had  appeared.  Then,  as  Arthur  slowly  began  to 
recover,  Joanne  again  looked  forward  to  their  long- 
awaited  wedding.  But  Arthur  began  to  doubt  whether 
he  would  ever  be  a  strong,  healthy  man  again.   He  be- 


came hesitant  about  marrying  Joanne,  fearing  he  might 
become  a  burden  to  her.  .  .  .  While  his  fears  of  becoming 
a  permanent  invalid  were  mounting,  Arthur  happened 
to  see  Joanne — in  a  moment  of  gratitude — kiss  Nathan 
Walsh,  who  had  defended  her  so  vigorously  during  the 
trial.  Added  to  his  depression,  this  affected  Arthur  so 
deeply  that  he  began  to  lose  his  will  to  five.  .  .  .  As 
Arthur's  strength  ebbed,  the  doctor  grew  alarmed  but 
Joanne  refused  to  give  up.  Finally,  she  herself  proposed 
to  Arthur — and  he  accepted.  .  .  .  With  the  wedding  to 
take  place  in  a  matter  of  days,  Joanne  can  look  back 
and  smile  at  the  proposal  she  had  had  to  make  to  prove 
her  love.  Arthur's  spirits  had  risen,  his  recovery  had 
quickened  and,  in  a  short  time,  he  was  able  to  leave  the 
hospital.  .  .  .  Now,  Joanne  and  Arthur  face  the  future, 
confident  and  smiling.  But  have  the  series  of  tragedies 
that  have  kept  them  apart  really  come  to  an  end?  What 
lies  behind  the  sudden  apologies  and  friendship  offered 
by  Joanne's  mother-in-law,  Irene  Barron,  who  had  done 
so  much  to  hurt  Joanne  during  the  trial?  Will  her  selfish 
intentions  continue  to  mar  Joanne's  happiness?  Or  will 
other  difficulties  arise  that  will  challenge  Joanne  and 
Arthur  as  together  they  search  for  a  happier  tomorrow? 

Search  For  Tomorrow  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:30  P.M.  EST, 
as  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  .Toy,  Spic  and  Span,  Gleem. 


FAVORITE   TV   DAYTIME    DRAMA   PROGRAM 
FAVORITE    TV    DAYTIME    DRAMA    ACTRESS     •      FAVORITE    TV    DAYTIME    DRAMA    ACTOR 


45 


w 


He's  thrifty,  39,  and  frustrated  .   .  . 
generous,  ageless,  successful  .  .  . 
whatever  he  is,  he's  your  favorite! 

By  FREDDA  DUDLEY  BALLING 


Daughter  Joan  and  wife  Mary  Livingstone  would 
be  the  first  to  swear  that  Jack's  no  tightwad. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  COMEDIAN 


£QBJ 


lyiv-th*? 


The  morning  after  Jack  Benny's  daughter, 
Joan,  was  married  to   Seth  Baker,  the  Los 
Angeles  Examiner  headlined  the  event,  "Benny 
Daughter  Wed  in  $50,000  Ceremony."    The  Los 
Angeles  Times  duplicated  that  headline  with  one 
exception — the  price  was  quoted  at  $60,000. 
(Incidentally,  both  figures  were  incorrect.) 

Eddie  Cantor  rushed  to  the  telephone  and  asked 
his  long-time  friend,  "Jack,  d'ya  want  to  save 
ten  thousand  dollars  this  morning?"  In  his  usual 
velvety  voice,  Jack  confessed  that  he  had  never 
been  hostile  to  thrift.    "Read  the  Examiner 
instead  of  the  Times  then,"  was  the  Cantor  advice. 

Jack  has  told  the  story  repeatedly,  obviously 
gets  a  kick  out  of  it  because  it  indicates  how 
completely  the  Benny  legend  has  permeated  the 
American  scene.   He  is  a  man  who  attracts  labels, 
as  if  to  define  him  could  explain  him  as  a  living 
phenomenon.  Jack  Benny  has  been  dubbed  "The 
Waukegan  Wonder,"  "The  World's  Least 
Appreciated  Violinist,"  "The  Most  Versatile  Worrier 
the  Race  of  Man  Has  Yet  Produced,"  "The 
Funniest  Un-funny  Man  in  Show  Business,"  "The 
Spirit  of  Mankind's   Daily   Frustration,"   and 
(by  George  Burns)  "The  Quiet  Riot." 

In  some  respect,  each  of  the  designations  is  true, 
but — even  taken  all  together — they  don't  encompass 
the  actor,  his  act,  or  the  man  responsible  for 
both.    Actually,  Jack  Benny  is  one  of  the  great 
short-story  writers  and  one  (Continued  on  page  101) 

The  Jack  Benny  Program  is  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Sun.,  7 
P.M.— Jack  Benny  TV  Show,  CBS-TV,  alternate  Sundays, 
7:30  P.M.  (check  local  papers  for  variations) — both  EST, 
sponsored  by  American  Tobacco  for  Lucky  Strike  Cigarettes. 


Show  folk  all  recognize  Jack's  professional  talents — 
and  his  personal  charm.  Such  notables  as  Bing  Crosby 
and  George  Burns  enjoy  "getting  into  the  act"  with  him. 


He  gives  freely  of  both  time  and  money  to  worthy 
causes.  During  wartime  and  after,  Jack  made  many  tours 
to  battle  areas  and   hospitals   (above,   with    Rochester). 


[■ 


3fc 


4 


Poised  and  well-dressed,  Jack  and  his  family  chat 
with  the  Netherlands'   Prince  Bernhard,   in   London. 


$     Hi 


z* 


the  ED  SULLIVAN  story 


Toast  Of  The  Town 
is  vivid  proof  that 
Ed's  only  been  wrong 
about  one  thing— 
when  he  thought 
he  wasn't  a  showman 


By 

GREGORY 

MERWIN 


Obviously,  Ed  Sullivan  is  a  genius.  He  has  filled  the  country's  choice  and  most 
demanding  hour  for  nearly  seven  years,  fifty-two  Sundays  a  year.   His  Toast 
Of  The  Town  rates  as  the  nation's  top  TV  variety  program,  but  Ed  is  not 
a  singer,  not  a  comedian,  not  a  dancer,  not  an  actor,  not  a  musician — in  fact,  not 
even  a  bona-fide  emcee  (he  barely  shows  his  teeth).   Obviously,  he  must  be  a 
genius.   And  this  is  a  sober  observation,  not  mere  flippancy. 

Ed  Sullivan  is  an  exceptional  man  who  is  painfully  modest,  quiet  and  unassuming. 
Toast  Oj  The  Town  is  an  exceptional  show  which  is  none  of  these  things.    It  is 
famed  for  variety  that  is  exciting,  sometimes  wondrous  and  {Continued  on  page  89) 

Ed  Sullivan  is  the  creator,  producer  and  master  of  ceremonies  of  Toast  Of  The  Town,  as  seen  over 
CBS-TV,  Sundays,  from  8  to  9  P.M.  EST.  The  program  is  sponsored  by  the  Lincoln-Mercury  Dealers. 


FAVORITE    TV    EVENING    MASTER    OF    CEREMONIES 


V.I.P.s  trust  Ed's  showmanship 


BEST    TV    PROGRAM 


Variety  is  just  the  word  for  Toast  Of  The  Town.  Always  something  new,  something  different,  such  as  the  cavalcade  of 
radio  history  Ed  presented  this  year.  Based  on  veteran  critic  Ben  Gross'  book,  /  Looked  and  I  Listened,  it  featured 
heroines  of  long-popular  serial  dramas — including  this  year's  Award-winning  daytime  actress,  Jan  Miner  (seated,  left). 


Walt  Disney  . . .  Oscar  Hammerstein  II,  whose  "story"  started  a  new  trend  . . .  Liberace  (at  right — Mario  Lewis,  co-producer  of  Toast). 


FAVORITE    TV    EVENING    VARIETY    PROGRAM 


49 


I 


the  ED  SULUVAN  story 


Obviously,  Ed  Sullivan  is  a  genius.  He  has  filled  the  country's  choice  and  most 
demanding  hour  for  nearly  seven  years,  fifty-two  Sundays  a  year.  His  Toast 
Of  The  Toion  rates  as  the  nation's  top  TV  variety  program,  but  Ed  is  not 
a  singer,  not  a  comedian,  not  a  dancer,  not  an  actor,  not  a  musician — in  fact,  not 
even  a  bona-fide  emcee  (he  barely  shows  his  teeth).  Obviously,  he  must  be  a 
genius.  And  this  is  a  sober  observation,  not  mere  flippancy. 

Ed  Sullivan  is  an  exceptional  man  who  is  painfully  modest,  quiet  and  unassuming. 
Toast  Of  The  Town  is  an  exceptional  show  which  is  none  of  these  things.   It  is 
famed  for  variety  that  is  exciting,  sometimes  wondrous  and  (Continued  on  page  89) 

Ed  Sullivan  is  the  creator,  producer  and  master  of  ceremonies  of  Toast  Of  The  Town,  as  seen  over 
CRS-TV,  Sundays,  from  8  to  9  P.M.  EST.  The  program  is  sponsored  by  the  Lincoln-Mercury  Dealers. 


FAVORITE    TV    EVENING    MASTER    OF   CEREMONIES 


Toast  Of  The  Town 
is  vivid  proof  that 
Ed's  only  been  wrong  I 
about  one  thing— 
when  he  thought 
he  wasn't  a  showman 


Blessing  in  Disguise 


U 


Liberace  triumphed  with  talent,  faith  and  hard  work 
and  found  the  greatest  of  these  was  faith 


HHK& 


J^^:  W: 


Liberace  says:  "My  recent  siege  taught  me  that 
an  illness  can  be  a  blessing  in  disguise.  It  gave 
me  time  to  think,  time  to  look  back  on  my  life 
to  see  where  I'd  been.   And,  in  a  way,  it  gave  me 
an  opportunity  to  see  where  I  was  going.  As 
a  result,  I  was  surprised  to  find  how  much  living  I 
could  get  into  a  24-hour  day — >by  slowing  down!" 

Lee  says  that  the  first  few  years  of  his 
professional  life  found  him  on  a  performing 
merry-go-round;  he  no  sooner  got  off  one 
engagement  than  he  got  on  another.  But  he  admits 
that  it  was  his  own  fault  that  put  him  there. 

"There  was  too  much  time  wasted  sleeping,"  he 
says,  "that  was  my  philosophy.   I  figured  if  I 
stayed  awake  twenty  hours  instead  of  sixteen,  I 
could  get  twice  as  much  work  done  in  half 
the  additional  time.    The  fact  that  it  caught  up 
with  me  shows  that  I  was  wrong. 

"For  years,"  Lee  says,  "I  had  been  succumbing 
to  the  lure  of  the  moment.  (Continued  on  page  88) 

FAVORITE  TV  MUSICAL  PROGRAM 

The  Liberace  Show,  produced  by  Guild  Films,  is  seen  in  most 
areas  of  the  U.S.  and  Canada.  See  local  papers  for  time  and 
station  of  both  the  TV  version  and  The  Liberace  Radio  Show. 


^> 


s 


> 


\ 


X 


**, 


4 


} 


They  love  Mama  (Peggy  Wood),  on  or  off  the  Award-winning  drama:  Dagmar  (Robin 
Morgan),  Nels  (Dick  Van  Patten),  Katrin  (Rosemary  Rice),  and   Papa  (Judson  Laire). 

why  they  remember  MAMA 


Peggy  Wood's  TV  children  have 
personal  reasons  for  being  grateful 
to  TV's  most  beloved  mother 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


In  just  three  emotion-packed  words,  the  young  people 
of  CBS-TV's  Award-winning  Mama  tell  why  they  love 
the  show:  "We're  a  family."  Unrelated  by  blood,  they  have 
been  welded  into  an  association  as  close  as  that  of  the 
Hansens  they  portray — because,  off-camera  as  well  as  on, 
they  share  the  love  and  wisdom  of  that  remarkable  woman. 
Peggy  Wood,  who  portrays  Mama  so  magnificently.  Her 
influence  reaches  deep  into  their  personal  lives. 

"She  showed  me  how  wonderful  a  family  could  be,  so  I 
decided  to  get  married,"  says  Dick  Van  Patten,  who  plays 
Nels,  Mama's  eldest  child. 

"Except  for  Peggy,  I  would  have  (Continued  on  page  96) 

FAVORITE  TV  EVENING  DRAMA 

Mama,  whicn  stars  Peppy  Wood  in  the  title  role,  i>  seen  over  CBS-TV. 
Fridays,  from  8  to  8:30  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  General  Foods  Cor- 
poration for  Maxwell  House  Coffee.  Grape-Nuts,  and  Grape.-Nuts-Flakes. 


51 


fine  and  dan -dan -Dandy 


7 


#1  ^ 


«ta 


Ring  around  Jackie — and  Audrey  Meadows,  June  Taylor, 

and  Art  Carney — as  the  June  Taylor  dancers  create  one  of  those 

camera  patterns  for  which  the  Gleason  show  is  famous. 


On  or  off  TV,  it's  a  picnic  when 
Jackie  Gleason  gets  together 
with  his  gang,  and  away  they  go! 

By  FRANCES  KISH 


It's  Saturday  afternoon,  at  a  Jackie  Gleason  Show 
rehearsal.  The  place  is  CBS-TV's  Studio  50,  on 
Broadway,  in  New  York.  Gleason  is  due  to  arrive 
any  moment  and  already  there's  excitement  in  the  air. 

"Whichever  way  Jackie  does  the  show — live,  as 
it  is  now,  or  on  film,  as  it  will  be  next  fall — there  will 
always  be  excitement,  and  this  will  always  be  a 
ball  for  us,"  Audrey  Meadows  is  saying,  seated  out 
in  the  darkened  auditorium  while  the  commercials 
are  being  set  up  on  stage.  "You  can  bet  on  it  that 
Jackie  will  always  break  out  with  ways  to  keep 
things  from  quieting  down   (Continued  on  page  78) 


The  Jackie  Gleason  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  each  Saturday, 
from  8  to  9  P.M.  EST.  The  program  is  sponsored  by  Schick 
Electric    Shavers,    Nescafe    Instant    Coffee,    Gleem    and    Prell. 


FAVORITE  TV   EVENING   COMEDY   PROGRAM 


Perfectionist   Sleason    watches   every   detail    as   seen    by 

the  public,  keeps  an  eye  on  the  TV  screen  as  Audrey,  Art,  and 

Joyce  Randolph  rehearse  for  "The  Honeymooners"  on  stage. 


53 


Here's 

GEORGE  GOBEL 

Friends  and  fellow  workers  agree 
on  just  one  thing:  You  can't 
hardly  find  a  better  man,  any  day ! 


1 

i 


A  kiss  for  "the  real  Alice,"  before  George  sets  off  to 
perform  with  "the  TV  Alice"  ...  a  bedtime  story  for  two  of 
his  youngsters,  Georgia  and  Gregg  . .  .  that's  George,  too. 


FAVORITE  TV  COMEDIAN 

Viewers  vote  that  the  star  of  The  George  Gobel  Show  is 
the  very  best  kind,  even  if  he  doesn't  act  like  a  star. 


Ouery:   What  is  George  Gobel  really  like?    To 
find  out,  TV  Radio  Mirror  asked  this 
question  of  eight  of  his   closest  working 
friends.    In  all  fairness,  we  had  to  let  George 
speak,  too— so  we  quote  him  first. 

George  Gobel:  "Don't  believe  anything  you  read 
beyond  this  paragraph.    These  people  are  all 
such  big  bars,  they  should've  been  lieutenants  in 
the  Air  Corps." 

Bud  Yorkin  (George's  director) :  "George  is  co- 
operative; the  most  cooperative  person  I've 
every  worked  with.  He's  always  on  time,  punctual 
as  the  studio  clock,  considerate  of  others,  in 
that  he  never  makes  anyone  wait. 

"He's  completely  unimpressed  with  his  own 
success.   Recently,  we  were  doing  a  show,  using  a 
table  and  rug  for  props.   When  the  rug  got  in 
the  way,  I  said,  'Let's  move  it.'   A  grip  took 
the  table,  then  George  bent  over,  rolled  up  the 
rug,  carrying  it  to  the  side  of  the  set.     It  never 
dawned  on  George  that  the  show's  star  doesn't 
have  to  roll  up  the  rugs." 

Ed  Sobol    (George's  executive  producer): 
"Honesty  and  integrity — everything  George  does 
relates   back   to  these   things.    He's   a   success 
because  he  believes  in  the  things  he  does." 

Jackie  Cooper  (guest  star) :  "George  is  the  only 
comic  I  know  who  thinks  and  works  like  an 
actor.    In  rehearsals,  you  can  see  him  stopping — 
and  saying  to  himself,  'What  am  I  thinking 
now?' — then  doing  the   (Continued  on  page  92) 

The  George  Gobel  Show  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  three  Saturdays 
out  of  four,  10  P.M.  EST,  for  Armour  &  Co.  and  Pet  Milk  Co. 


u 


EQUAL  RIGHTS 


We've  found  it  works  both  ways    .    .    . 
for  Ozzie  and  me,  as  parents   .    .   . 
for  David  and  Ricky,  as  teenagers 
By  HARRIET  NELSON 


One  of  the  most  pleasant  aspects  of  doing  our 
weekly  television  show  is  that  it  affords 
Ozzie  and  me  the  opportunity  to  get  really 
close  to  our  children  and  to  get  to  know  them  well. 
We  both  feel  that  too  much  is  often  made 
of  the  differences  between  teenagers  and  adults, 
and  not  enough  emphasis  is  placed  on  the 
similarities.   After  all,  they  eat  the  same  food  as  we 
do,  see  the  same  motion  pictures  and  television 
shows,  read  the  same  newspapers — and,  in  the 
case  of  our  particular  family,  do  the  same  work. 

Self-assertion  is  one  of  the  basic  human 
emotions,  and  we  all  like  to  have  as  much 
freedom  of  expression  as  possible.    Ozzie  and  I 
feel  that  teenagers  should  be  given  every 
opportunity  to  do  the  things  they  want  to  do,  as 
long  as  what  they  are  doing  is  consistent  with 
good  taste  and  reasonably  acceptable  standards. 

Ricky,  for  instance,  is  an  avid  record  collector, 
and,  about  a  year  ago,  his  taste  ran  toward 
the  bizarre  and  blatant.  Without  any  interference 
from  us,  however,  he  has  recently  become  more 
and  more  discriminating — until,  by  now,  Ozzie 
and  I  both  look  forward  to  his  newest  platters. 

Dave,  who  is  a  freshman  at  the  University 
of  Southern  California,  came  to  us  at  the  beginning 
of  school  last  September  and  told  us  he  had 
received  a  bid  to  a  national  fraternity.    "I  think 
it's  the  best  house  on  the  campus,"  he  said, 
"and  I  would  like  to  accept.    What  do  you  think 
of  the  idea?"    Ozzie   and  I  both  told  him  it  was 
entirely  up  to  him,  but  we  thought  it  might  be 
wiser  to  wait  until  he  passed  his  first-term 
exams.    We  emphasized  the  fact  that,  if  he  felt 
he  could  keep  up  his  studies  and  the  fraternity 
work,  then  he  could  go  ahead.    Dave  thought  it 
over  for  about  a  week  and  decided  to  put  it  off. 
Just  two  weeks  after  he  was  notified  that  he  had 
passed  his  first-term  examinations,  he  walked 
into  the  house  proudly  wearing  his   fraternity 
pledge  pin.    By  putting  our  ideas  in  the  form 
of  advice,  I  feel  that  we  accomplished  much  more 
than  we  could  have  by  parental  edicts. 

We  gave  up  long  ago  the  idea  of  setting  a  curfew 
on  the  boys.   They  come  in  at  a  reasonable  hour, 
not  because  we  demand  it,  but  because  they 
have  discovered  for  themselves  that  it  is  the 
sensible  thing  to  do.   By  treating  them  as  equals 
and  respecting  their  rights  as  individuals,  we  are 
enjoying  not  only  the  affection  of  two  fine  sons 
but  also  the  companionship  of  two  valued  friends. 

The  Adventures  Oj  Ozzie  And  Harriet  is  seen  on  ABC-TV,  Fri.. 
8  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  alternately  by  the  Hotpoint  Company 
and  Listerine.  See  local  papers  for  other  times  and  stations. 


FAVORITE  TV  HUSBAND-WIFE  TEAM 

Ozzie  and  Harriet  Nelson  first  won  your  team  Award 
in   1947 — when  their  sons  were  played  by  child  actors. 


Today,  David  and  Ricky  work  with  them  on  TV — and 
take  vacations  with  them,  too,  as  far  away  as  France. 


55 


The  Garry  Moore  Show  gets  Garry  a  gold  medal — with  sterling 
assistance  from  Durward  Kirby  (left),  Denise  Lor,  and  Ken  Carson. 

By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 

Garry  Moore's  desk  calendar  read:  "Thursday — Noon — 
See  the  man  about  the  kangaroo."  Pointing  to  that 
entry,  he  answered  the  question,  "What  do  you  like 
best  about  television?"  The  man  who  won  this  year's  TV 
daytime    emcee    award    with   his    Monday-through-Friday 
Garry  Moore  Show — and  whose  Wednesday-night 
program,  I've  Got  A  Secret,  won  the  TV  panel  prize — said 
with  enthusiasm:  "This  is  it  .  .  .  I'll  bet  half  the  desk  pads 
in  New  York  today  just  say,  'Meet  Jones  for  lunch.'  Now, 
in  this  business,  every  day  is  different.  You  don't  have  to 
solve   the   same   problem   twice.    (Continued   on   page  84) 


What's  your  secret?  Want  more  fun  out 
of  life — more  happiness  at  home — more 
pets  to  play  with  ?    Whatever  it  is  .   .   . 


All  in  the  day's  work:  Garry  learns  from  expert 
handler  Ross  Allen  how  to  "flip  over"  an  alligator — 
eight  feet  long  and  weighing  three  hundred  pounds! 


Bk.  ■       '""    *3 

pjflp252p?^§Q                   "  ■  M 

gajasp^  \-v_jB 

n*ml 

n 

Gerry's  fond  of  animals  but  finds  that  even  small 
ones  have  to  be  handled  with  gloves  on.  Above,  with 
zoologist  Ivan  Sanderson  and  South  American  grison. 


Above,  Capt.  Frank  Knight  demonstrates  the  art  of 
falconry  with  Ramshaw,  the  eagle.  Bird,  beast,  or 
fish,  Garry  loves  'em  all — even  the  so-called  "slow 
loris"  (right  page)  who  proved  unexpectedly  frisky. 


I've  Got  A  Secret  wins  Award  with  Bill  Cullen,  Jayne  Meadows, 
Henry  Morgan,  Faye  Emerson  as  panelists — Garry  as  moderator. 

FAVORITE  TV  PANEL  PROGRAM    •    FAVORITE  TV  DAYTIME  MASTER  OF  CEREMONIES 

Carry  Moore  is  moderator  of  Tve  Got  A  Secret,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  9:30  P.M.  EST,  as  sponsored  by  R.  J.  Reynolds  Tobacco 
Co.  for  Winston  Cigarettes.  His  Garry  Moore  Show  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  10  A.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


Sergeant  Friday  Speaks 


Jack  Webb  —  whose  own  success  created 

Dragnet  — has  a  stirring  message 

for  teenagers  about  their  own  futures 


FAVORITE   TV   EVENING   DRAMA  ACTOR 

FAVORITE   TV   MYSTERY-ADVENTURE  PROGRAM 


By  BUD  GOODE 


Editor's  note:      Jack  Webb  was  a  child  of  the 
Depression;  he  was  raised  without  benefit 
of  a  father's  guidance;  he  lived  on  the  wrong 
side  of  the  tracks.    He  had  more  than  three  strikes 
against  him  before  he  became  a  -man — but  he's 
never  been  called  out!    "Will  power"  is  Jack's  plea 
to  today's  teenagers:    Will  power,  strength  of 
character,  determination — call  it  what  you  will — it 
is  this  mental  iron  of  which  our  solid  citizenry  is 
made.    Jack  Webb  is  his  own  best  example.    It 
is  not  appropriate  that  he  say  this,  or  point  to 
■himself,  and  he  is  far  too  humble  to  do  so.   However, 
we  can  and  do  point  to  Jack  Webb  as  the  brightest 
example  of  his  own  philosophy.    Now  listen  to 
what  he  has  to  say  to  today's  troubled  teenagers. 

•  Jack  Webb,  Dragnet's  well-known  Detective 
Sergeant  Joe  Friday,  says:  "High-school  teenagers, 
between  their  fifteenth  and  eighteenth  years,  are 
really  young  adults.     They  are  old  enough  to  know 
the  difference  between  right  and  wrong.   They  are 
old  enough  to  be  considered  responsible  for  their 
own  actions. 

"Don't  misunderstand  me,"  Jack  continues,  "I  still 
think  that  parents,  no  matter  what  age  their  children, 
are  responsible  for  their  children's  actions,  too.  The 
schools  have  a  similar  responsibility.   Likewise,  the 
community  churches.  But  in  the  last  analysis,"  he 
emphasizes,  "the  decision  to  do  right  or  wrong  is  up 
to  the  individual  teenager." 

Jack  does  not  consider  himself  an  authority  on 
teen-age  problems,  and  he  wants  to  stress  that  point. 
But  he  does  have  two  children  of  his  own — he,  too, 
was  a  teenager — and,  to  the  extent  that  Dragnet  has 
covered  teen-age  problems,  he  is  familiar  with  them. 
"I  do  know  this,"  says  Jack,  (Continued  on  page  93) 


Jack  Webb  is  Detective  Sergeant  Joe  Friday  in  Dragnet. 
seen  over  NBC-TV,  Thursdays,  at  9  P.M. — and  heard  over 
NBC  Radio,  Tuesdays,  8:30  P.M.— both  EST,  sponsored  by 
Liggett   &   Myers  Tobacco   Co.   for  Chesterfield   Cigarettes. 


Producer-director-star  Jack  Webb  is  concerned  with  every  major  aspect  of  Dragnet.  At  right    with  script  supervisor 
Frank  Kowalski  and  Ben  Alexander,  who  is  Friday's  partner,    Frank  Smith,   in  the  Award-winning   documentary   drama. 


WANTED:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  North 


Alias  Pam  and  Jerry  North:  Dick  and   Barbara 
are  a  convincing  pair  of  sleuths — in  the  script. 


"Pam,"  at  home,  is  really  Mrs.  Eugene  Czukor, 
has  a  son  named  Teddy,  a  daughter  named  Chris. 


Barbara  Britton  and  Richard  Denning 

find  they  could  use  some  help, 

in  "The  Case  of  the  Missing  Keys" 

By  GORDON  BUDGE 

Barbara  Britton  and  Richard  Denning — Pam  and 
Jerry  North,  the  amateur  sleuths  of  CBS 
Radio's  Mr.  And  Mrs.  North — desperately  try  to 
lead  quiet  lives  away  from  the  microphone.   But, 
somehow,  Richard  Denning  and  his  wife,  Evelyn 
Ankers,   and  Barbara  Britton  and  her  husband,  Dr. 
Gene  Czukor,  can't  seem  to  keep  Pam-and-Jerryisms 
out  of  their  lives.  You  would  think,  however,  that 
the  most  completely  amateur  sleuths  could  find  their* 
own  missing  car  keys.  But  not  Barbara  and  Dick! 
One  recent  weekend,  for  (Continued  on  page  76) 

Mr.  And  Mrs.  North,. a  John  W.  Loveton  Production,  is  heard  over 
CBS  Radio,  Mon.,  8  P.M.  EST.  The  TV  version  can  be  seen  in 
major  areas  of  the  U.S.;  see  local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


.   I 


"Jerry's"   off-TV   wife   is   pretty   Evelyn    Ankers — 
and  they  have  a  daughter  whom  they  call  DeeDee. 

FAVORITE  RADIO  EVENING  DRAMA  ACTOR 

FAVORITE  RADIO  EVENING  DRAMA  ACTRESS 


I    60 


\ 


As  his  wedding  date  approaches,  Eddie  Fisher  finds 
life  becoming  more  and  more  "something  to  sing  about" 
By  MARY  TEMPLE 


Really  there  are  two  Eddie  Fishers.  .  .  .  One  is  the  boy  who  sings 
out  of  a  happy  heart  and  can  hardly  keep  the  fun  he  finds  in  life 
from  bubbling  up  and  spilling  over  into  everything  he  does. 
The  boy  who  can't  quite  believe  that  all  the  wonderful  things  which 
have  happened  to  him  are  true.  .  .  .  The  other  Eddie  is  the  serious 
artist  who  has  grown  in  stature  month  by  month,  who  is  aware 
of  his  success  .  .  .  and,  even  more,  of  the  responsibilities  that  success 
brings.  The  serious  young  man  who  is  also  aware  of  his  good  fortune 
in  meeting  a  girl  named  Debbie  Reynolds  ("She's  perfect  for  me, 
perfect  for  any  man,  but  I'm  the  lucky  one  she's  going  to  marry")  .  .  . 
and  who  realizes  that  marriage  will  bring  its  own  special  responsibilities. 
This  is  the  Eddie  Fisher  who  welcomes  the  challenges  of  his  work 
and  of  his  life  and  runs  forward  with  a  full  heart  to  meet  them. 

Eddie  sat  in  his  dressing  room  after  rehearsal  of  one  of  his  shows, 
having  a  quick  lunch  served  on  a  paper  plate  from  the  drugstore  in 
Radio  City.   It  was  one  of  the  rare  times  when  he  might  be  found 
alone  at  the  studio,  without  many  people  crowding  into  the  narrow 
room,  and  it  didn't  last  very  long.   Soon  the  room  was  filled  with 
people  coming  and  going  who  needed  to  consult  with  him — his  barber, 
the  manicurist,  his  friends. 

"I  am  just  beginning  to  grasp  all  the  things  that  have  happened  to  me 
during  the  past  few  years,"  Eddie  said.    "A  couple  of  years  ago,  I 
told  you  that  the  responsibility  of  all  this  scared  me  a  little  at  first. 
I  would  get  to  thinking  about  how  many  (Continued  on  page  100) 


Coke  Time  Starring  Eddie  Fisher  is  heard  over  Mutual,  Tues.  and  Thurs.,  7:45  P.M. — 
seen  on  NBC-TV,  Wed.,  Fri.,  7:30  P.M.— both  EST,  sponsored  by  The  Coca-Cola  Co. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  MALE  SINGER 


Left,  Eddie  Cantor  and  his  Ida  attend 
the  party  to  celebrate  Eddie  Fisher's 
engagement  to  filmstar  Debbie  Reynolds. 


Above,  Debbie  receives  congratulations 
from  composer  Irving  Berlin  by  phone  as 
Eddie  beams  proudly  at  his  bride-to-be. 


Together,  Eddie  and  Debbie  are  already 
sharing  careers — from  cheer-up  visits'  in 
hospitals  to  appearances  at  "premieres." 


__ 


HOME 


They  create  a  TV  ivomen's 


Each  of  us  has  our  own  individual 
ideas  as  to  what  makes  a  home 
something  unique  and  special. 
Collectively,  you  readers  decided  that 
NBC -TV's  Home  was  special  enough 
to  be  chosen  as  favorite  TV  women's 
program.  The  choice  was  a  wise  one, 
for — in  little  over  a  year — Home  has 
provided  its  millions  of  viewers  with 
a  fascinating  and  fantastic  wealth  of 
information. 

In  every  home,  it's  the  people  who 
make  it  the  special  place  it  is.  So  it  is 
with  Home.  First  and  foremost,  there 
is  Editor-in-Chief  Arlene  Francis 
who,  with  her  infectious  laugh  and 
sunny  personality,  creates  an  atmos- 
phere of  whole-hearted  enjoyment 
that  is  shared  by  the  other  Home  edi- 
tors, as  well  as  viewers.  One  of  the 
most  beloved — and  active — women  in 
television,  Arlene  brings  to  the  show 


ARLENE   FRANCIS 

Editor-in-Chief  of  Home 


Home  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  M-F,  from  11 
A.M.  to  12  noon  EST  (in  most  other  areas — 
10-11    CST;    9-10    MST;    11- noon    PST). 


FAVORITE    TV    WOMEN'S    PROGRAM 


NATALIE  CORE 

Fashion  and  Beauty  Editor 


NANCYANN   GRAHAM 
Home  Decoration  Editor 


wonderland — exciting,  different  and  so  worthwhile 


an  extensive  background  in  the  thea- 
ter, TV  and  the  fashion  field,  plus  a 
love  of  cooking,  decorating  and  other 
household  activities.  Arlene  has  found 
that  each  day  on  the  program  is  a 
new  experience  for  her.  "I  watch  and 
enjoy  the  things  shown  as  much  as 
any  housewife  listening,"  she  says, 
"and  many  of  the  ideas  I  have  incor- 
porated in  my  own  home."  This  is  a 
nine -room  house  in  Manhattan  which 
Arlene  and  her  husband,  actor-direc- 
tor-producer Martin  Gabel,  redecor- 
ated themselves.  In  addition  to  the 
excitement  of  fixing  up  her  own  home, 
Arlene  has  had  a  fair  share  of  thrills 
on  Home.  She  has  descended  to  the 
bottom  of  the  Pacific  Ocean  in  a  div- 
ing bell,  allowed  snakes  to  coil  about 
her  arms,  and  taken  a  jogging  ride  on 
a  camel — after  which  she  said  dryly, 
"That's  the  last  date  I'll  have  with  that 


dromedary!"  It  seems  now  that  life 
couldn't  be  busier  or  more  exciting 
for  Arlene,  and  it  is  this  desire  to  be 
constantly  doing,  added  to  her  many- 
faceted  talents,  that  makes  her  the 
perfect  mistress  of  Home. 

No  home  is  really  complete  without 
a  man  about  it  and,  on  Home,  this 
role  is  ably  filled  by  Hugh  Downs, 
who  serves  as  host  and  Shopping 
Editor.  That  he  is  the  only  male  seen 
regularly  each  day  seems  to  agree 
with  Hugh.  "I  love  women,"  he  says, 
adding:  "Any  man  that  says  he  dis- 
likes having  a  lot  of  women  around 
him  is  insecure.  .  .  .  Besides,  the  gals 
on  Home  are  all  a  wonderful  bunch 
to  work  with."  An  Ohioan  by  birth, 
Hugh  came  to  New  York  by  way  of 
Chicago  where  he  was  an  announcer 
for  NBC  shows  and  star  of  his  own 
shows.    His   (Continued  on  page  84) 


HUGH  DOWNS 

Host  of  Home;  Shopping  Editor 


DORSEY  CONNORS 

Midwest  Editor 


WILL  PEIGELBECK 

Gardening,  How-to-do-it  Editor 


KIT  KINNE 

Cooking  Editor 


65 


all  Play,  no  work 


By  ROBERTA  OWEN 

Whenever  Bill  Cullen  hears  a 
woman  complain,  "My  husband 
built  a  sink  in  his  darkroom,  but  do 
you  suppose  I  can  get  him  to  put  up 
so  much  as  a  shelf  in  the  kitchen?" 
he  has  an  urge  to  offer  the  lady 
some  advice. 

Bill,  who  breaks  up  a  formidable 
broadcasting  schedule  with  many 
a  spare-time  pursuit,  wants  to  say, 
"Relax,  ma'am.  One  is  work,  the  other 
play.  The  guy  will  do  his  regular 
job  better  if  he  gets  away  from  it 
once  in  a  while.    Besides,  you  can't 
tell  where  that  hobby  may  lead." 

Likewise,  when  he  encounters  the 
man  who  expects  his  wife  to  break 
into  an  ecstasy  of  admiration  each 
time  he  waves  a  photograph  at  her 
and  announces,  "I  shot  this  at  f8 
and  l/50th,"  Bill  wishes  he  could 
impart  a  few  facts  of  life. 

To  the  offending  male,  he  would 
like  to  confide,  "You're  boring  your 
wife.   You're  imposing  on  the  fact 
women  are  trained  to  be  good 
listeners.   Did  you  enthuse  when  she 
worked  out  that  difficult  knitting 
stitch?" 

For  Bill  truly  believes  that  a  hobby, 
to  be  any  good,  must  be  completely 
personal,  a  contrast  to  one's  regular 
job  and  a  joy  in  itself.   "It  should 
never  reflect  your  all-the-time 
thinking,"  he  remarks.    "A  hobby's 
major  importance  is  that  it  takes  off 
the  competitive  pressure.    You 
proceed  at  your  own  pace.  You  are 
the  only  one  you  have  to  please.  But 
when  you  have  pleased  yourself, 
you'll   (Continued  on  page  83) 


That's  how  a  bus/  schedule  looks 
to  Bill  Cullen,  who  discovered  a 
great  career  through  his  hobbies 


Bill  is  heard  on  It  Happens  Every  Day,  M-F, 
Mutual,  8:55  A.M.,  for  the  Block  Drug  Co., 
and  Roadshow,  on  NBC  Radio,  Sat.  (see  local 
papers  for  time).  He  is  seen  on  Name  That 
Tune,  over  CBS-TV,  Thurs.,  10:30  P.M.,  for 
Carter  Products  and  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.. 
and  Pve  Got  A  Secret,  on  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  9:30 
P.M.,  for  Winston  Cigarettes.  All  times  EST. 


FAVORITE  RADIO  EVENING  MASTER  OF  CEREMONIES 


66 


IF  you  can  laugh  at  yourself  in  the 
small  unexpected  adventures  of 
life,  you  will  better  be  able  to  laugh 
at  your  big  problems,  too.   Art 
Linkletter  can  tell  you  that  the 
unexpected  always  happens;  it's  the 
way  you  react  to  it  that's  important. 

Recently,  Art  was  asked  to  guest 
on  Toast  Of  The  Town,  when  Ed 
Sullivan  devoted  the  entire  hour  to 
saluting  the  pioneers  of  the  radio 
industry.    As  Art  sat  with  the  other 
"greats"  of  radio,  they  reminisced 
about  the  many  funny  mishaps  that 
occurred  during  the  earlier  helter- 
skelter  days  of  the  business. 

Art  says:    "Suddenly  a  mental 
picture  of  a  hilarious  night  came  back 
to  me.  It  was  twenty-two  years  ago, 
when  I  was  staff  announcer  and 
general  handyman  at  KGB,   San 
Diego — just  starting  my  career.    My 
nighttime  disc-jockey  and  chatter 
show  was  sponsored  by  a  local 
mortuary.  It  was  my  first  sponsor — so 
I  was  putting  every  effort  into 
impressing  them  and  the  station 
management. 

"Alone,  with  just  the  sound 
engineer  in  the  studio,  I  was  beginning 
my  evening  pitch  for  the  mortuary, 
when  one  of  life's  unexpected  adven- 
tures began  to  take  place.  In  those 
old  days,  microphones  looked  like  a 
sort  of  pot,  suspended  from  a  long 
arm  called  a  'boom.'    As  I.  got  into 
the  meat  of  the  message,  the  boom 
slowly  started  to  drop.    Thinking  of 
the  old  show-business  maxim,  'The 
show  must  go  on,'  I  soon  found  myself 
crouching,  then  kneeling  on  the  floor! 

"The  payoff  came  as  the  micro- 
phone settled  (Continued  on  page  79) 


Art  Linkletter's  House  Party  is  heard  over 
CBS  Radio,  3:15  P.M.— seen  on  CBS-TV,  2:30 
P.M.— both  M-F,  for  Pillsbury  Mills,  Lever 
Brothers,  Kellogg  Co.,  and  Dole  Pineapple. 
People  Are  Funny,  heard  on  NBC  Radio, 
Tues.,  8  P.M.  for  Mars  Candy  and  The  Toni 
Co.— seen  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  7  P.M.,  for  Prom 
Home  Permanent,  Paper-Mate  Pens.  All  EST. 


Well,  it  wasn't  so  timely  then— 
but  it  started  Art  Linkletter  on 
his  way  toward  fabulous  success 


FAVORITE  RADIO  DAYTIME  MASTER  OF  CEREMONIES 


67 


E-fcozrm.a.1   Miiracle 


Our   Miss   Brooks  cradles   her  first-born.     (But,   to   mother   Eve,    wee   Douglas   Brooks   West   is  truly   her  fourth   child!) 


Daughters  Connie  and   Liza  are  the  eldest  of 
Brooks  and  Eve  Arden  West's  beloved  children. 


To  Eve  Arden,  children  are  always 
the  most  blessed  event,  no  matter 
how  they  come  into  her  happy  home 

By  GLADYS  HALL 


Just  suppose  that  you,  like  Eve  Arden, 
had  been  married  for  years  .  .  .  and  had 
adopted  three  children  .  .  .  and  then 
had  a  baby  of  your  own  .  .  .  what  would  you 
think,  how  would  you  feel,  what  would 
your  reaction  be?   Surely,  the  miracle  of 
birth  would  seem  even  more  of  a  miracle,  at 
that  blessed  moment! 

Eve  Arden — the  bachelor-girl  school- 
teacher  of   Our   Miss   Brooks   fame — had 
actually  been  married  eleven  years  in  all 
...  a  first  marriage  that  lasted  seven  years, 
and  four  years  of  happy,  completely  happy, 
marriage  to  actor  Brooks  West .  . .  before 
her  first  baby  was  (Continued  on  page  97) 

Eve  Arden  is  Our  Miss  Brooks,  as  heard  on  CBS  Radio, 
Sun.,  8  P.M.  EST,  for  Anacin  and  other  products — seen 
on  CBS-TV,  Fri.,  9:30  P.M.  EST,  for  General  Foods. 


FAVORITE   RADIO   COMEDIENNE 


The  farm  is  their  haven.  But  Eve  and  Brooks  have  enjoyed 
most  of  their  tours  in  the  U.S.  and  Europe.  They  make  their 
own  "title  cards"  (below)  for  travel  movies  they've  taken. 


69 


Every  prayer  is  answered.   A  fourteen- 
year-old   Scottish  lass   named   Marion 
knows  this  to  be  true.    Her  life  has 
shown  her  that  a  day  will  always  come 
in  the  patient  future — a  day  when  the  faith 
implied  in  even  the  smallest  prayer 
will  be  rewarded.   Roy  Rogers  and  Dale 
Evans  have  also  led  prayerful  lives  and 
know  that  faith  is  rewarded.  Here  is  a  story 
that  ties  together  these  three  people— - 
Roy  Rogers,  Dale  Evans,  fourteen-year- 
old  Marion— and  One  prayer:   Marion's 
dream  of  living  in  a  home. 

In   1954,   Marion,   then  thirteen  years 
old,  lived  in  Scotland's  Dunforth 
Orphanage.   Her  parents  had  had  a  hard 
time  making  a  home  for  her  brother,  two 
sisters  and  Marion.  Dunforth  was  the 
third  orphanage  she  had  been  in.    Her 
brother  and  two  sisters  had  grown  up  and 
"graduated."  Fate  had  been  against 
Marion.  There  had  been  times  when  she 
had   almost  been   adopted,   but   something 
always  happened.   Either  she  was  too 
young    (or  too  old)    or  some  aspect  of 
the  law  could  not  be  met.   But  Marion 
never  gave  up  her  prayerful  dream — 
to  have  a  home. 

Then  in  the  winter  of  1954,  Roy 
and  Dale,  on  tour  in  the  British  Isles, 
visited  Scotland.  (Continued  on  page    76) 

The  Roy  Rogers  Show,  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  6:30  P.M. 
EST,  sponsored  by  General  Foods  for  Jell-0  and 
Post  Cereals.  The  Roy  Rogers  Show,  NBC  Radio, 
Thurs.,  8  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Dodge  Dealers. 


Everyone  in  the  family — except  mama  Dale  Evans  and  baby  Dodie — wears  an  American  cowboy  hat  like 
papa  Roy's:  Dusty,  Scotch  lassie  Marion,  Sandy,  and  Linda  Lou.  Marion  feels  more  at  home  than  ever 
before  in  her  life,  among  the  wild   heather  of  California — or  listening  to  Roy's  soft  Western  voice. 


Marion's  sad  song  went  straight  to 
the  hearts  of  Roy  Rogers  and 
Dale  Evans— and  found  her  a  home 


FAVORITE  TV  WESTERN   STAR 
FAVORITE   TV   WESTERN    PROGRAM 


70 


Thanks,  Pardner ! 


Gene  Autry  is  celebrating  his  25th  anni- 
versary in  radio.  "Faith  is  what 
kept  me  here,"  he  says.    "Faith  I  had  in 
myself,  but — more  important — the  faith 
other  people  had  in  me.    In  fact,  I  might 
never  have  been  here  if  it  hadn't  been 
for  the  faith  of  others.    Here  and  now,  I 
want  to  thank  them,  one  and  all." 

Gene  first  left  his   Oklahoma   ranch 
home,  at  sixteen,  to  join  the  railroad  as  a 
telegrapher  in  the  whistle-stop  town  of 
Chelsea,  Oklahoma.   During  the  long 
nights,  he  whiled  away  the  hours  singing 
and  strumming  his  guitar. 

One  night  Gene  was  sitting  dreaming 
out  the  window,  guitar  in  his  lap,  when 
a  stranger  came  up  with  a  message 
for  him  to  send.    Handing  it  in,  he  spied 
the  guitar.   "You  play  that  thing,  son?" 

"Yes,  sir,"  said  Gene. 

"You  sing?" 

"Yes,   sir." 

"Well,  then,  would  you  knock  off  a  ditty 
for  us?" 

Gene  did.    When  he  finished,  the 
stranger  smiled.    "Young  fella,"  he  said, 
"you  ought  to  be  in  radio." 

Gene    thought    the    stranger    was    just 
making  him   feel   good.   But — when  he 
looked  at  the  message — he  saw  it  was 
signed:    "Will  Rogers."    Since   the   im- 
mortal Will  Rogers  (Continued  on  page  95) 

The  Gene  Autry  Show  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Sun., 
6  P.M.  EST,  for  Wrigley's  Doublemint  Chewing 
Gum.  See  local  papers  for  time  and  station  on  TV. 


When  Gene  first  saw  the  skyscrapers  of  New  York,  he  said  to  himself:  "Boy,  you'll  be  lucky  if  you 
can  ever  find  your  way  out!"  But  his  path  led  on  to  fame  and  fortune,  in  the  familiar  West — riding 
the  range  with  his  fine  horse,  Champion — and  cooking  on  an  outdoor  "range"  for  his  beloved  wife,  Ina. 


Gene  Autry  will  never  forget  those 
who  believed  in  him,  during  his 
twenty-five  years  in  show  business 


FAVORITE  RADIO  WESTERN   STAR 
FAVORITE   RADIO  WESTERN   PROGRAM 


71 


IS  FOR  QUALITY 


Versatility  is  the  keynote  of  the  Lewis  shows.   Left  to  right,   in  this   music-hall 
skit:  Earl  Wriqhtson,  Lois  Hunt,  Jan  Arden,  Bob,  Lee  Vines,  and  Jaye  P.  Morgan. 


FAVORITE    TV    DAYTIME    COMEDY      •       FAVORITE    RADIO    DAYTIME    COMEDY 


Robert  Q.  Lewis  found  himself 
through  helping  others, 
became  a  star  by  creating  stars 

By  ED  MEYERSON 


It  was  only  a  year  and  a  half  ago  that  Jaye  P. 
Morgan  came  East — a  virtual  unknown  from  the 
West  Coast.   As  she  says,  "I  was  torturing 
myself  as  a  band  vocalist,  wondering  whether  I 
was  getting  anywhere."  But,  her  first  week  in  New 
York,  she  auditioned  for  the  new  show  Robert 
Q.  Lewis  was  readying  for  TV.  "I've  Got  the  Sun 
in  the  Morning,"  she  sang — and  that  very 
same  morning,  she  also  got  the  job. 

As  a  singer  on  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Shows,  and 
a  charter  member  of  Bob's  "family,"  Jaye  P. 
Morgan  soon  became  a  name  that  meant  more 
than  just  high  finance.   She  was  invited  to 
Washington,  along  with  Milton  Berle  and  Irving 
Berlin,  to  entertain  at  an  affair  honoring  the 
President.    She  appeared  on  The  Jackie  Gleason 
Show  when  Robert  Q.  took  over  for  his  friend. 
And  then  she  signed  a  recording  contract  with 
RCA  Victor. 

"I  take  absolutely  no  credit  for  Jaye  P.  Morgan," 
Bob  says.   "She  was  that  way  to  begin  with." 

It  was  Bob,  however,  (Continued  on  page    105) 


Anything  for  a   laugh — Bob  even  tackles  a  xylophone 
with  typical  skill,  to  the  amazement  of  Earl  and   Lois. 


Harmony  isn't  just  a  word,  in  his  "family."  Above,  Bob 
with  the  Chordettes — Marjorie  Needham,  Lynn  Evans, 
Carol  Bushman,  Janet  Ertel.  Left,  he  loves  everything 
about  show  business,   has  a  fabulous  record  collection. 


The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  2  P.M.  EST,  spon- 
sored by  Miles  Laboratories  (for  Alka-Seltzer),  Helene  Curtis 
Industries  (Spray  Net  and  Lanolin  Discovery).  General  Mills 
(O-Cel-0  Sponges  and  other  products),  Johnson's  Wax,  Swanson 
Frozen  Poultry,  Doeskin  Tissues,  Mazola.  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show  on  CBS  Radio,  Sat.,  11  A.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Helene 
Curtis    (Suave,    Shampoo    Plus    Egg),    Pine-Sol.    Perma-Starch. 


73 


^ 


0 


t 


FAVORITE  RADIO  WOMEN'S  PROGRAM 

Audiences — and  Sara  Ann  Starry,  collegiate  Queen 
For  A  Day — insist  on  crowning  Jack  Bailey  himself. 
At  right,  Jack  at  home  with  his  own  queen,  Carol. 


Jack  Bailey  and  Queen  For  A  Day  are  celebrating  their 
tenth  anniversary  on  the  Mutual  radio  network — and 
all  of  Jack's  millions  of  loyal  listeners  agree  they  couldn't 
have  spent  those  ten  years  with  a  nicer  guy. 

But  Jack  claims  he  is  not  responsible  for  the  Queen's 
ten  years  of  success.  "The  Queen  is  so  alive  today,"  says 
Jack,  "for  just  one  reason:  The  loyalty  of  its  listeners. 
I  can  remember  times,  during  this  period,  when  we  were 
kept  on  the  air  only  because  of  the  graciousness  and 
loyalty  of  our  fans. 

"I'm  not  generally  considered  a  tear-shedding  man," 
Jack  says,  "but,  in  saying  'Thanks  to  you  all,'  I  could  very 
easily  shed  one  now.  As  an  audience,  you've  stood  by 
me  from  the  very  first  day — and,  long  as  I  live,  I'll  never 
forget  that  day!     Boy,  did  I  fluff!" 

It  was  in  June,  1945,  that  Jack  (Continued  on  page  92) 

Queen.  For  A  Day  ia  heard  over  Mutual,  M-F,  11:30  A.M.  EST,  for 
Old  Gold  Cigarettes  (P.  Lorillard  Company)  and  other  sponsors. 
Check  loral  papers  for  time,  day  and  stations  of  the  TV  version. 


Long  Live 
the 

QUEEN! 


Jack  Bailey  has  a 
heartful  of  thanks, 
not  for  just  a  day— 
but  always 


U    v 


74 


1 .    <             fet. 

1 

li 

i 

Fibber  and  Molly-and  Family 

Radio  has  made  Jim  and  Marian  Jordan' 's  fondest  dreams  come  true 


FAVORITE  RADIO  HUSBAND-WIFE  TEAM 

Jim  and  Marian  Jordan  have  won  a  permanent  place  in   listeners'  hearts — along  with  three  Awards  to  date  in 
TVRM  polls — but  are  proudest  about  their  six  grandchildren  (above,  Peggy  and  Janice  Jordan,  Diane  Goodman). 


Their  home  and  family  are  the  two  most  important  things 
to  Jim  and  Marian  Jordan — your  beloved  Fibber  McGee 
And  Molly — more  important  to  them  than  top  ratings  or 
star  billings.  This  is  as  true  today,  with  their  five-times- 
a-week  radio  show,  as  it  was  back  in  their  beginning  days 


in  vaudeville — when  they  had  only  a  dream  to  share. 
Vaudeville,  to  Jim  and  Marian,  was  a  struggle:  For 
years,  they  traveled  the  old  Gus  Sun  Time  circuit  with  a 
group  of  players  known  as  the  Metropolitan  Entertainers 
(the  group  played  a  dulcimer,    (Continued  on  page  88) 


Fibber  McGee   And   Molly,   starring   Jim    and    Marian    Jordan,    is    heard    on    NBC    Radio,   Sunday   through   Thursday,    at    10   P.M.    EST 


75 


Wanted:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  North 


(Continued  from  page  60) 
example,  Barbara  and  Dick  did  a  late  show. 
Barbara's  husband,  Dr.  Czukor,  had  to  be 
at  work  early  the  following  morning.  Since 
the  Dennings  and  the  Czukors  live  but  a 
few  blocks  apart,  Gene  asked  Dick  if  he 
would  mind  bringing  Barbara  home.  "Sure, 
I'll  bring  Barbara  home,  Gene,"  said  Dick. 

It  was  midnight  when  Barbara  and  Dick 
finished  taping  their  show.  When  they 
emerged  into  the  dark  of  the  CBS  parking 
lot,  it  appeared  to  them  like  a  scene  from 
their  script.  The  street  light  poked  un- 
easy fingers  through  the  fog  as  if  search- 
ing for  something  solid.  They  could  barely 
make  out  the  shadowy  bulk  of  Dick's  car 
huddled   in   the  far   corner   of  the   lot. 

A  small  mist  of  light  seeped  through 
the  closed  CBS  doors.  Beyond  this  brief 
island  of  illumination,  it  was  dark  as  a  pit. 
Barbara  and  Dick,  in  real  life,  are  just  as 
brave  as  Pam  and  Jerry.  They  struck  up'  a 
chatter  of  valiant  conversation  as  they 
gingerly  picked  their  way  to  the  car. 

The  door  of  Dick's  car  was  cold  and  fog- 
damp  to  his  touch.  He  turned  the  handle. 
"It's  locked,"  he  said,  "and  the  attendant 
had  the  keys!" 

"Don't  worry,"  said  Barbara  brightly, 
"Pam  and  Jerry  could  find  a  set  of  car 
keys.  And  so  can  we.  The  first  thing  we 
have  to  do  is  reconstruct  the  crime!  Now, 
if  you  were  the  parking  lot  attendant, 
where  would  you  have  left  them?" 

"Inside,"  said  Dick,  brightening,  "at  the 
reception  desk!" 

"Sure,"  said  Barbara,  "that's  where  they 
are!"  And  they  ran  back  to  the  lighted 
doorway.  But  the  lone  watchman  at  the 
night  desk   said,  "No,   there   are  no   keys 


here.  But,"  he  said,  "sometimes  they  leave 
them  across  the  street  at  the  Naples  Res- 
taurant." 

Barbara  and  Dick  left  the  warmth  of 
the  reception  room,  picking  their  way 
across  the  street  toward  the  Naples. 

"Keys?"  said  the  cashier.  "No  keys  here. 
You  might  try  the  Knickerbocker  Hotel." 

Thinking  of  the  dark  blocks  beyond  the 
safety  and  warmth  of  the  Naples,  Bar- 
bara and  Dick  said  in  their  quaveriest 
Pam-and-Jerry  voice,  "Knickerbocker?" 

Then  they  were  out  in  the  dark  again. 
As  they  started  to  walk  up  to  the  "Knick," 
their  footsteps  unconsciously  quickened, 
the  better  to  speed  them  through  the 
murky  night.  By  the  time  they  arrived, 
they  were  almost  too  out  of  breath  to  ask 
for  the  keys. 

Looking  at  the  panting  pair  in  front  of 
him,  with  ..raised  eyebrows,  the  night  clerk 
said,  "No,  there  are  no  keys  here." 

Barbara  and  Dick  stared  at  one  another 
in  desperation.  "Look,"  said  Dick  quietly, 
"this  isn't  too  big  for  us.  But  what  would 
Pam  and  Jerry  do  now?" 

"Well,"  said  Barbara,  "they'd  go  back 
to  the  scene  of  the  crime." 

.Back  in  the  fog-blanketed  parking  lot, 
Barbara  and  Dick  peered  off  into  the  dark- 
ness looking  for  a  clue.  Their  eyes,  now 
accustomed  to  the  dark,  immediately 
picked  out  the  empty  attendant's  shack. 

"The  shack!"  exclaimed  Barbara. 

"Of  course!"  said  Dick.  They  looked  at 
one  another  sheepishly  as  if  to  say,  "Why 
didn't  we  think  of  this  before!" 

But  the  shack  was  locked. 

"Oh,  no!"  groaned  Dick. 

"Now  what  will  we  do?"  asked  Barbara. 


Very  Jerry-like,  Dick  said,  "Just  keep 
calm;  we're  too  close  to  the  solution  to  get 
excited.  I'll  think  of  something." 

"We  could  burn  it,"  suggested  Barbara, 
"and  rake  the  ashes." 

"Don't  be  funny,"  replied  Dick.  "This 
door  has  a  simple  latch.  I  could  force  it." 

"All  right,"  said  Barbara,  "well  do  it 
together  .  .  ."  and  they  leaned  against  the 
splintery  door.  With  a  brief  sigh  of  protest, 
it  gave  way.  Dick  turned  on  the  light.  To- 
gether their  eyes  quickly  searched  the 
shack's  interior-^-but  no  keys. 

"It  beats  me.  Now  what?"  said  Dick. 

Barbara  thought  for  a  moment.  She  said: 
"We  could  call  the  owner  of  the  lot." 

Dick  brightened.  "That's  an  idea... we 
should  have  thought  of  that  in  the  first 
place."  And  back  they  went  to  the  Naples. 

"The  phone  book,"  said  Dick,  "is  the 
most  remarkable  invention  since  the  wheel 
— you  can  find  the  solution  to  almost  any 
problem  in  it."  Two  minutes  later,  after 
arousing  the  sleepy  owner  of  Walt's  Sys- 
tem Auto  Parks,  Dick  wasn't  so  positive. 
The  owner  didn't  have  the  address  or 
phone  number  of  the  lot's  attendant.  There 
was  nothing  he  could  do  until  morning. 

But  it  already  was  morning.  At  1:30 
A.M.,  Dick  and  Barbara  gave  up  playing 
Pam  and  Jerry  North.  They  called  Bar- 
bara's husband  and  told  him  their  story. 

Twenty  minutes  later,  he  arrived  in 
overcoat  and  pajamas.  Barbara  and  Dick 
didn't  say  anything  as  they  sheepishly 
slid  into  the  front  seat  beside  him.  The 
doctor  didn't  say  anything,  either,  only 
looked  at  them  through  sleepy  eyes. 

But,  as  he  pulled  away  from  the  curb, 
they  heard  him  mutter:  "Some  detectives! 


76 


(Continued  from  page  70) 
As  usual,  they  entertained  in  as  many 
hospitals  and  orphanages  as  possible.  It 
was  at  Dunforth  that  Roy  and  Dale  first 
met  Marion.  Here,  for  a  change,  after  the 
stars  had  entertained,  the  children  sang  for 
Roy  and  Dale.    Marion  appeared  last. 

"She  came  out,"  says  Dale,  "in  a  little 
plaid  kilt  that  tried  desperately  to  hide  her 
bony  knees.  Standing  in  the  middle  of  the 
floor,  a  tiny  pillar  of  bravery,  she  said,  'I'd 
like  to  sing  a  song — "Won't  You  Buy  My 
Pretty  Flowers  .  .  ."  '  Her  words  hit  us 
right  between  the  eyes: 

'Underneath  the  gaslight  glitter 
Stands  a  little  fragile  girl, 
Hiding  from  the  night  winds  bitter 
As  they  round  about  her  whirl. 
While  the  hundreds  pass  unheeding 
In  the  evening's  waning  hours, 
Still   she   cries   with   tearful   pleading, 
Won't  you  buy  my  pretty  flowers? 
There  are  many  sad  and  weary 
In  this  pleasant  world  of  ours, 
Crying  every  night  so  dreary, 
Won't  you  buy  my  pretty  flowers.' " 

While  Marion  sang,  Roy  and  Dale  saw  the 
words  reflected  in  her  eyes.  She  wasn't  so 
much  singing  the  song  as  living  it.  And 
Marion  seemed  to  sense  their  feeling. 
During  the  rest  of  the  afternoon,  as  Roy 
and  Dale  sat  and  talked  with  the  children, 
Marion  followed  them  with  her  blue  eyes. 

When  Roy  and  Dale  left  the  orphanage, 
Marion's  face  was  forlorn — she  looked  as 
though  her  last  dream  had  turned  its  back 
and  walked  away.  Driving  back  to  their 
hotel,  Dale  couldn't  erase  the  mental  pic- 
ture of  the  little  girl  singing  her  sad  song. 
When  they  were  in  their  room,  she  said  to 
Roy:  "Of  all  those  children,  Roy,  that 
girl  needs  a  home  more  than  the  rest  .  .  . 


Answer  to  Prayer 

how  about  it?"  She  turned  to  her  husband. 

Roy  said,  "I  was  just  thinkin'  the  same 
thing." 

The  next  day,  they  asked  the  prioress  for 
lunch  and  talked  to  her  about  Marion. 
Marion's  yearning  for  a  home  was  plain, 
they  told  her,  and  they  had  fallen  in  love 
with  the  child.  Would  it  be  possible  for 
them  to  take  her  home  to  California  for 
a  visit  in  their  home?  They  were  surprised 
to  learn,  during  this  conversation,  that 
Marion  was  thirteen  years  old.  To  them, 
her  tiny  frame  belied  her  age,  especially 
when  they  mentally  compared  her  with 
their  own  children  at  home.  They  also 
learned  that  Marion  was  a  religious  girl. 
Besides  desperately  wanting  a  home,  she 
wanted    to    become    a    missionary. 

The  information  the  prioress  gave  them 
convinced  them  that  Marion  was  the  need- 
iest child  in  the  orphanage.  This  new  in- 
formation only  intensified  Dale's  and  Roy's 
desire  to  have  Marion  with  them. 

Word  travels  fast  in  an  orphanage:  It 
wasn't  long  before  Marion  heard  she  was 
to  go  with  Roy  and  Dale  to  that  wonderful 
dreamland,  America! 

Then  the  bad  news  came,  again — as  it 
always  had:  English  law  prohibits  adop- 
tion of  a  British  subject  by  an  alien  living 
in  a  foreign  country.  Marion  could  not 
go  with  Roy  and  Dale. 

But  Roy  and  Dale  didn't  give  up — they 
went  to  Chief  Constable  Merriles  in  Edin- 
burgh. They  discussed  the  situation  back 
and  forth  for  hours.  Finally,  Mr.  Mer- 
riles suggested  that,  though  Marion  could 
not  be  adopted,  there  was  no  law  against 
her  coming  to  America  for  a  visit. 

"That's  good  enough  for  us,"  said  Dale. 
"At  least  we  can  fill  her  with  sunshine  and 
good  food." 

The  question  now  was:  Would  the  spe- 
cial dispensation  for  the  "visit"  be  granted? 


It  was  highly  unorthodox.  Roy,  Dale  and 
Marion  waited  patiently  for  word  from 
Chief  Constable  Merriles.  Waiting  had 
always  been  part  of  Marion's  life;  she 
wasn't  as  fretful  during  this  time  as 
were  Roy  and  Dale.  To  Marion,  this  was 
just  another  time  for  patience  and  prayer. 

Then  in  July,  1954,  permission  was 
granted  for  Marion's  "visit"  to  the  United 
States!  She  would  be  allowed  to  stay 
until  January,  1955. 

It  is  now  the  spring  of  1955:  Marion  is 
still  at  home  with  Roy,  Dale  and  their 
five  other  children.  After  she  started 
school  in  the  fall  of  '54,  Roy  and  Dale 
asked  that  her  "visit"  be  extended  so  she 
could  finish.  Permission  was  granted.  In 
Scotland,  youngsters  come  of  age  when 
they  are  fifteen — if  Marion  were  in  an 
orphanage  at  that  age,  she  would  have 
been  sent  out  into  the  world  to  work. 
Marion  will  turn  fifteen  while  still  in 
school  here  in  America.  Legally,  she  can 
then  make  her  own  decisions:  She  can 
either  go  back  to  Scotland,  or  stay  on  with 
Roy  and  Dale.  .  .  . 

Yes,  it  is  now  springtime,  1955.  The  wild- 
flowers  are  pushing  up  on  the  hills  around 
Roy's  and  Dale's  San  Fernando  Valley 
home.  It  hasn't  even  been  a  year  since 
Marion  came  to  America.  But,  in  that 
time,  the  sunshine  and  food  Dale  promised 
her,  the  love  and  the  home  Marion  longed 
for,  have  added  five  inches  and  twenty 
pounds  to  her  slim  frame — the  kilt  no 
longer  reaches  her  no-longer-bony  knees! 

The  spring  blossoms  remind  Marion  of 
her  own  sweet  song,  "Won't  You  Buy  My 
Pretty  Flowers?"  Who  knows  better  than 
this  little  Scottish  lass,  standing  up  to  her 
waist  in  the  wild  American  heather,  that 
there  will  always  come  a  day  in  the  pa- 
tient future?  A  day  when  every  prayer  is 
answered! 


WHAT  A  WONDERFUL  BIRTHDAY  PRESENT! 

Just  what  we  wanted!  On  Queen  for  a  Day's  tenth  anniversary, 

you  lovely  readers  of  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  have  named  Queen  your  favorite 

women's  radio  program.  This  is  the  third  successive  year  that  the 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR  Gold  Medal  Award  Poll  has  given  Queen  for  a  Day 

this  award.  And  believe  Jack  Bailey,  he's  mighty  grateful. 

In  the  ten  years  of  broadcast,  Jack  has  given  the  crown  to  more  than 
2600  lucky  ladies,  and  has  rewarded  them  with  presents  worth  about  $7  million. 

Listen  every  weekday  for  Queen  for  a  Day  starring  Jack  Bailey  11:30  AM  EST*  on  MBS 


MUTUAL  BROADCASTING  SYSTEM 


The  Radio  Network  for  all  America 


'For  exact  time  and  station  in  your  area,  check  your  local  radio  listings 


77 


Fine  and  Dan-Dan-Dandy 


(Continued  from  page  53) 
too  much.     He  never   lets  down,   and   he 
never    lets    us    let    down.      It's    always    a 
ball." 

Right  now  the  place  looks  more  like  a 
mob  scene  than  a  ball,  however.  People 
mill  up  and  down  the  aisles.  You  wonder 
how  so  many  of  them  ever  got  past  the 
challenging  stage  doorman  who  guards 
the  entrance  as  if  it  were  a  combination 
of  Fort  Knox  and  the  Nevada  Proving 
Grounds.  (Actually,  the  Gleason  fans 
don't  even  try  to  crash.  They  stand  pa- 
tiently out  on  the  sidewalk,  waiting  to 
yell:  "Hi,  Jackie" — or  such  characteristic 
expressions  as  "M-m-m,  boy!" — as  he 
dashes  past  them  to  the  stage  entrance, 
yelling  back:  "You're  a  dan-dan-dandy 
bunch,"   or,   "One   of  these  day-a-a-ys!") 

To  one  side  of  the  theater's  auditorium 
is  the  orchestra,  with  shining-pated  Ray 
Bloch  putting  the  boys  (and  the  one  lone 
girl,  the  harpist)  through  their  paces. 
They're  going  over  and  over  a  phrase 
which  is  giving  them  trouble,  smoothing 
it  out  for  the  evening  performance.  Jack 
Lescoulie,  the  smiling  announcer  who  is 
now  a  definite  part  of  this  program,  and 
Jimmy  Blaine  and  Bill  Nimo,  the  other 
announcers  who  have  rapidly  become 
closely  identified  with  it,  are  mumbling 
over  their  lines  in  separate  corners  as  the 
sets  for  the  commercials  are  being  checked 
and  lights  and  cameras  placed.  A  little 
girl  actress,  who  will  be  in  one  of  the 
commercials,  sits  quietly  by  herself  study- 
ing a  schoolbook. 

The  shapely  girls  who  will  announce 
the  imminent  arrival  on  home  screens  of 
Mr.  Gleason  and  his  show,  and  who  will 
parade  again  before  the  cameras  as  the 
show  leaves  the  air,  are  moving  into  their 
places  for  a  camera  run-through.  The 
June  Taylor  dancers  are  still  scattered 
around  the  theater,  knitting,  reading,  chat- 
tering, as  they  wait  for  their  call.  You 
feel  like  a  child  at  a  three-ring  circus, 
trying  to  watch  everything  at  once. 

"Places,  everybody,"  an  assistant  calls, 
and  the  dancers  now  swarm  out  of  the 
half-dark  and  onto  the  brightly  lit  stage. 
Ray  Bloch  signals  with  his  baton  and  they 
start  their  routines,  making  a  stunning 
pattern  of  outstretched  legs  and  arms  as 
seen  from  an  overhead  camera  and  re- 
corded on  the  monitor  sets  scattered 
around  the  theater. 

Suddenly  you  are  aware  that  Gleason 
has  come  in,  quietly  and  without  the 
welcoming  fanfare  you  might  expect  for 
a  guy  with  a  new  contract  that  goes  'way, 
'way  up  in  the  millions.  Already  his  eyes 
are  focused  on  the  monitor  nearest  the 
stage,  so  close  to  the  front  row  of  girls 
that  he  could  reach  out  and  grab  a  kick- 
ing foot.  But  Jackie  pays  attention  only 
to  what  he  sees  on  the  screen,  as  the  home 
viewers  will  see  it  later.  That's  what 
counts.  He  is  wearing  one  of  his  favorite 
plaid  shirts,  a  bright  pink  and  black,  with 
a  gray  and  black  t  eed  suit  loosely  fitted 
to  his  bulk  but  somehow  giving  the  im- 
pression of  a  stud  ed  neatness.  (He  has 
that  knack  of  looking  neat,  not  common 
to  most  men  of  his  size — and  this  is  at 
the  beginning  of  his  now-famous  public 
reducing  regime,  while  he's  still  up  there 
around  the  260-pound  mark.) 

He   nods  his  head  to  the   music   of  the 
dance,    nods    it    more    emphatically    when 
the  pattern  of  legs  and  arms  in  the  over- 
head camera  hits  the  screen  again.     He's 
T    pleased,  and  June  Taylor,  who   has   been 
'    standing    next    to    him,    now    sways    con- 
*    ten  ted  ly  to  the  music  as  she  indicates  to 
the  girls  that  the  kicks  must  be  kept  high, 
high,  higher. 
78 


Certainly  there  was  no  fanfare  when 
Jackie  arrived  indoors,  but  something 
electric  ran  through  the  theater,  the  per- 
formers, the  orchestra,  the  technicians,  the 
control  room — as  if  everything  were  keyed 
to  a  higher  pitch  than  it  had  been  before. 
Details  have  sjiddenly  become  more  im- 
portant. When  one  of  the  announcers  runs 
through  a  commercial,  it  is  Jackie,  stand- 
ing by  and  seemingly  paying  no  attention, 
who  notices  that  one  phrase  sounds  like 
the  brand  name  of  a  competitive  product 
when  it's  said  fast  and  slurred  a  little. 
"Just  switch  the  words  around  so  no  one 
will  get  confused,"  he  suggests.  No  one 
else  had  noticed.  Only  Gleason,  the  per- 
fectionist. 

"Jackie  doesn't  miss  a  thing,"  Art  Car- 
ney says.  "Even  when  you  think  he's  not 
watching  or  hearing,  he  knows  exactly 
what's  going  on.  And  it  isn't  always  an 
error,  or  a  fault,  that  he  notices.  He's  a 
guy  who's  quick  to  tell  you  when  he's 
pleased." 

Art,  who  plays  Ed  Norton,  Ralph  Kram- 
den's  neighbor — Jackie,  as  everybody 
knows,  plays  Ralph — is  far  better-looking 
than  he  appears  in  the  get-up  of  Norton 
on  the  show.  Like  Jackie,  he  likes  bright- 
colored  or  plaid  shirts  for  rehearsals,  and 
today  his  is  blue  and  black,  set  off  by  a 
gray  suit.  The  girls,  Audrey  Meadows 
and  Joyce  Randolph — the  ever-lovin'  but 
barbed-tongued  Alice  Kramden  and  Trixie 
Norton  of  "The  Honeymooners" — are  cas- 
ual but  chic  in  their  street  clothes.  Audrey 
is  wearing  a  gray  cashmere  sweater  over 
a  white  silk  sports  shirt  and  an  embroi- 
dered gray  skirt.  Joyce  is  in  black  shirt 
and  skirt,  topped  by  a  bright  orange  vest. 

Suddenly  you  notice  that  Audrey  and 
Jackie  are  on  stage,  quietly  rehearsing. 
This  is  it,  you  realize.  This  is  what  passes 
for  "dress  rehearsal"  on  this  show,  al- 
though the  lines  are  still  not  completely 
committed  to  memory — certainly  not 
Jackie's.  He  holds  a  script  in  his  hand 
while  he  goes  through  Ralph  Kramden's 
gestures,  with  producer  Jack  Hurdle  act- 
ing as  prompter  from  the  sidelines.  (Later, 
there  will  be  a  complete  reading  in  Jackie's 
dressing  room  and  the  script  will  be  timed 
and  cut,  and  Jackie  will  do  some  "cram- 
ming" and  know  exactly  what  he's  about, 
when  he  steps  out  before  the  cameras  at 
eight  o'clock.)  But  now  he  is  still  feeling 
his  way,  throwing  in  some  ad  libs,  and  still 
worrying  over  technical  details — if  a  win- 
dow is  supposed  to  stick  when  he  tries  to 
open  it,  he  wants  to  be  sure  he  can  count 
on  that  when  he's  doing  the  show.  If  a 
faucet  is  supposed  to  come  off  in  Audrey's 
hand,  Jackie  worries  about  whether  it 
will  break  off  when  the  right  moment 
comes.  He  is  always  the  combination  pro- 
ducer-director-actor-boss man,  no  matter 
how  many  people  surround  him — and 
plenty  always  do,  for  this  is  a  big  show. 

When  "The  Honeymooners"  was  just  a 
short  skit,  instead  of  the  practically  full- 
length  program  it  is  now,  Jackie  used  to 
rehearse  it  even  more  casually.  Some- 
times he  would  stand  on  the  stage  and 
call  out  to  Audrey,  resting  out  in  the 
theater,  "Aud,  what's  your  opening  line?" 
Audrey  would  throw  it  back  at  him  and 
they  would  be  off,  Jackie  mumbling  part 
of  his  lines,  substituting  "la-la-la-la-la" 
for  words  he  couldn't  remember,  and 
Audrey  calling  hers  out.  They  still  laugh 
about  the  day  when  sister  Jayne  Meadows 
(now  Mrs.  Steve  Allen)  came  visiting  for 
the  first  time. 

"Is  this  what  you  call  'rehearsal'  on  this 
show?"  Jayne  asked  Audrey.  "This  is  it," 
Audrey  answered.  "What  do  you  think 
of  it?" 


For  once,  Jayne — who  is  one  of  televi- 
sion's most  articulate  panel  members — was 
speechless.  She  never  went  to  a  rehearsal 
again.  "The  mere  thought  of  our  going 
on,  with  only  that  kind  of  preparation, 
scared  her,"  Audrey  says.  "She  preferred 
not  to  know  anything  about  it.  Now  we 
rehearse  some  on  Thursdays  and  Fridays, 
because  to  sustain  characters  all  through 
a  show  does  require  more  preparation, 
but  Jackie  is  not  one  to  over-rehearse  at 
any  time.  It  keeps  the  show  more  spon- 
taneous, his  way." 

The  fact  that  Jackie  not  only  has  a 
wonderful  memory,  but  has  a  marvelous 
gift  for  ad-lib,  makes  this  arrangement 
possible.  The  fact  that  Art  Carney  is 
Jackie's  match,  and  that  Audrey  has  had 
to  learn  fast,  contributes  to  it.  When 
Jackie  and  Art  get  to  throwing  in  lines 
at  rehearsals,  some  things  are  so  good 
they  stay  in.  When  they  ad-lib  on  the 
air,  only  those  close  to  the  show  know 
what  a  battle  of  wits  goes  on,  how  fast 
Art  has  to  pick  up  the  ball  when  Jackie 
throws  it  to  him,  and  the  other  way 
around.  "There's  a  charge  in  the  man 
when  he  gets  started,"  Art  explains.  '"You 
feel  it  the  moment  he  pushes  the  curtains 
aside  and  comes  out  every  Saturday 
night."  This  element  of  the  unexpected 
adds  a  lot  to  the  program  and  some  people 
wonder  if  the  filmed  "Honeymooners"  will 
be  as  much  fun  for  everybody,  including 
the  viewers. 

Jackie  is  sure  it  will  be,  if  only  because 
the  people  involved  in  it  will  be  more 
relaxed.  "Saturday  rears  its  ugly  head 
as  soon  as  Saturday  is  over,"  he  says, 
meaning  that  as  soon  as  one  live  show  is 
finished,  the  next  week's  show  begins  to 
pressure  him.  Perhaps  as  many  as  two 
programs  can  be  filmed  in  a  week,'  be- 
ginning sometime  in  midsummer,  and  that 
will  leave  the  rest  of  the  time  more  free 
for  some  of  Jackie's  other  activities.  He 
can  concentrate  more  on  each  show,  too, 
as  it's  filmed,  knowing  there  is  always 
something  ready  to  go  on  and  that  this 
one  need  not  be  hurried.  He  has  ideas  for 
personal  appearances  later  on — like  the 
show  he  put  on  at  the  Paramount  Theater 
in  New  York  last  year,  and  his  successful 
engagement  at  the  famous  night  club,  La 
Vie  en  Rose.  He  wants  to  do  more  com- 
posing and  recording,  like  his  Capitol  al- 
bum, "Music  for  Lovers,"  and  a  new  one, 
"Music  to  Remember  Her."  He  wants  to 
play  an  occasional  straight  role  in  a  dra- 
matic play  on  television. 

There  is  a  plan  revolving  in  his  mind 
for  a  TV  program  based  on  the  investiga- 
tion of  psychic  phenomena,  a  subject  that 
interests  him  deeply.  He  has  bought  the 
movie  rights  to  a  book  satirizing  television, 
and  there  is  a  possibility  he  will  star  in 
a  feature-length  film  for  theater  showing, 
a  project  still  in  the  discussion  stage. 

Added  to  all  this,  he  will  personally 
supervise  the  half-hour  live  variety  show, 
featuring  the  Dorsey  Brothers  and  their 
musicians,  and  the  June  Taylor  dancers, 
the  group  he  inspired  June  to  create. 
("When  he  told  me,  for  the  first  show, 
that  he  wanted  sixteen  dancers — an  un- 
heard of  number  at  that  time — to  appear 
at  one  time  on  television,"  June  says,  "I 
thought  he  must  be  mad.  But,  as  usual, 
he  knew  exactly  what  he  was  doing.") 

The  variety  half-hour  will  precede  the 
"Honeymooners"  half-hour  on  all  next 
season's  schedules.  There  will  be  guest 
stars,  approved  by  Jackie,  and  he  will 
appear  occasionally  on  the  show  himself, 
perhaps  re-creating  some  of  his  famous 
characters — such  as  Reggie  Van  Gleason, 
the  Loudmouth,  the  Poor  Soul,  with  Art 


Carney  as  his  foil — perhaps  coming  up 
with  some  brand-new  characterizations. 
Sometimes  he  may  take  over  a  Dorsey 
baton  to  lead  the  boys  in  something  of  his 
own. 

"Whatever  he  does,  it  will  be  in  good 
taste,"  everyone  tells  you.  "He  always  re- 
members that  his  are  'family  shows,'  from 
the  standpoint  of  the  time  when  they  go 
on  the  air,  and  also  because  they  appeal 
to  youngsters  as  well  as  grownups." 

The  Gleason  gang  wouldn't  mind  a  bit 
if  he  went  back  next  year  to  a  theater 
like  the  Paramount,  even  with  its  six-a- 
day,  sixteen-hours-in-the-theater  grind 
of  performances.  The  continuous  audi- 
ences, but  always  different,  stimulated 
Jackie.  "We  put  five  additional  minutes 
into  our  sketch  before  the  two  weeks  were 
finished,"  Audrey  says.  "Jackie  came  up 
with  some  marvelous  ad-fibbing.  There 
was  one  real  cute  segment  we  later  added 
to  the  TV  show.  Jackie  really  had  him- 
self a  ball  for  the  whole  two  weeks,  and 
he  loved  it." 

It  was  Audrey's  sister  Jayne  who  again 
made  one  of  her  classic  remarks  when  she 
went  backstage  at  the  Paramount  to  visit. 
The  corridors  and  dressing  rooms  back 
there  are  rather  stark  and  bare,  somewhat 
"institutional"  looking,  in  contrast  to  the 
opulence  of  the  lobbies  and  the  theater 
auditorium.  Jayne  took  one  look  around, 
at  the  clowning  Gleason  and  the  rest  of  the 
cast  and  the  other  people  involved  in  the 
stage  show,  all  laughing  and  shouting  and 
carrying  on  over  something  Jackie  had 
just  been  saying  and  doing.  "This  looks 
like  a  psycho  ward  at  Bellevue,"  she  said, 
"and  you  look  exactly  like  a  bunch  of 
ambulatory  patients!" 

"She  was  right,"  Jackie  admits.  "We 
saw  ourselves  later  in  a  kinescope  taken 
during  a  rehearsal  and  that  was  a  psycho 
ward,  all  right.    M-m-m,  boy!" 

Now  Jackie  is  thinking  about  building  a 
Television  City  in  the  New  York  area,  for 
filming  "The  Honeymooners"  and  other 
shows.  Maybe  right  in  the  middle  of  New 
York  City. 

"If  he  wants  to,  he  will,"  the  cast  says, 
when  you  mention  it.  "Right  in  the  heart 
of  Times  Square,  if  that's  where  he  wants 
it.  If  Jackie  sets  his  heart  on  doing  any- 
thing, he  gets  it  done." 

As  Jackie  himself  would  say,  "M-m-m, 
boy!  That  would  be  a  dan-dan-dandy 
set-up!" 


A  Laugh  in  Time 

(Continued  from  page  67) 
toward  the  floor.  There  I  was — young,  bud- 
ding, ambitious  Art  Linkletter — on  my 
hands  and  knees  on  the  floor  reading  mor- 
tuary advertising  copy!  The  humor  of  the 
situation  just  about  killed  me.  No  longer 
able  to  restain  myself,  I  started  laughing — 
that's  right,  smack  in  the  middle  of  my 
commercial. 

"Anybody  can  tell  you,  the  middle  of  a 
mortuary  commercial  is  no  place  to  laugh. 
And  my  friend,  the  sound  engineer,  was  no 
help  at  all!  I  looked  up  to  find  him  laugh- 
ing so  hard  he  couldn't  sit  in  his  chair. 

"The  commercial  ended  with  me  flat  on 
my  back,  the  microphone  resting  on  my 
chest." 

Yes,  it  was  a  wild  night  for  Art,  the  end 
of  his  first  sponsor.  But  not  the  end  of  his 
career — not  at  all.  It  was  only  the  begin- 
ning, for  it  was  this  ability  of  Art's — being 
able  to  laugh  at  life's  unexpected  adven- 
tures— that  proved  so  successful  for  him  in 
later  years  with  his  audience  participation 
shows.  With  these  shows,  the  unexpected 
always  happens,  too.  Art  has  proven,  it's 
the  way  you  react  to  these  situations  that 
is  important. 


...are  you  really  lovely  to  love? 


llow  confident  you  feel!  There's  an 
air  of  freshness  about  you  always  when 
you  use  Fresh  Cream  Deodorant. 

Underarms  are  dry . . .  and  they  stay  dry. 
No  worry  about  stains  that  spoil  clothes. 
No  offensive  odor.  Fresh  contains  the  most 
effective  perspiration-checking  ingredient 
now  known  to  science. 

You'll  love  using  Fresh,  too.  It's  a  pure 


white  cream,  with  a  soft,  subtle  scent.  And 
Fresh  has  a  fluffy,  whipped-cream  texture 
.  .  .  never  sticky  or  greasy.  So  kind  to 
your  skin,  too. 

For  an  air  of  freshness,  use  Fresh  Cream 
Deodorant  every  day — be  sure  you  are 
lovely  to  love,  always. 

pRESH  iS  a  registered  trademark  of  Pharma-Craft  Cor- 
poration.   Also    manufactured    and    distributed    in    Canada 


a"  F^ESr-fgirl 

is  always 
lovely  to  love 


■p 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Standard  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


>Ior 

8:30 
8:45 

ninii   Prograi 

ms 

Local  Program 

8:55  It  Happens 
Every  Day- 

John  MacVane 
8:55  Betty  Crockerj 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 

Breakfast  Club 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

10:45 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peale 
Joyce  Jordan 
Doctor's  Wife 

Break  The  Bank 

Cecil  Brown 

Guest  Time 
News 

10:35  Johnny 
Olsen  Show 

My  True  Story 

10:25  Whispering 
Streets 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:00 
11:15 
11:30 
11:45 

Strike  It  Rich 

Phrase  That  Pays 
Second  Chance 

Florida  Calling  With 
Tom  Moore 

11:25  Holland  Engle 
Queen  For  A  Day 

Companion— Dr.  Mace 

Paging  The  New 

Your  Neighbor's 

Voice 
Three-City  Byline 

Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 
Rosemary 

Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

Pauline  Frederick 

Break  The  Bank 

Valentino 

Wendy  Warren  & 

Reporting 

The  News 

12:15 

Capitol  Commentary  Frank  Farrell 

12:30 

with  Les  Higgie 

Helen  Trent 

12:45 

12:20  Down  At 
Hoimesy's 

Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 

News,  Cedric  Foster 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

Road  Of  Life 

1:15 

Luncheon  At  Sardi's 

Ted  Malone 

Ma  Perkins 

1:30 

Ted  Steele  Show 

Young  Dr.  Malone 

1:45 

The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 

Luncheon  With 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 

2:15 

Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 
Hayes 

Perry  Mason 

2:30 

' 

Wonderful  City 

Betty  Crocker  i 

This  Is  Nora  Orake 

2:45 
3:00 

2:35  Martin  Block 

The  Brighter  Day 

News 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Hilltop  House 

3:15  3:05  woman  In  Love 

Art  Linkletter's 

3:30  Pepper  Young 

House  Party 

3:45 
4:00 

Right  To  Happiness 

Backstage  Wife 

Bruce  &  Dan 

Latin  Quarter 

4:15 

Stella  Dallas 

Matinee 
4:25  Betty  Crocker  i 

4:30 

Young  Widder  Brown 

Treasury  Bandstand 

Treasury   Bandstand 

4:45 

Woman  In  My  House 

4:55  News 

5  oo  Just  Plain  Bill 

Bobby  Benson 

Musical  Express 

News 

(Sgt.  Preston)' 
Bobby  Benson 

5:05  John  Faulk 

5-.15  Lorenzo  Jones 

Fred  Beck 

5:30  Hotel  For  Pets 

Gloria  Parker 

5:45 

It  Pays  To  Be 
Married 

5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
'T-TH  2M-W-F 

Vincent  Lopez 

fT,  Th-Sheilah 
Graham 

5:55  This  1  Believe 

Monday 


Evening  Programs 


8:00 

6M5  Sports  Daily  with 

Mel    Allen,   Russ 
6:30      Hodges 
6:45  Three  Star  Extra 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 


Alex  Dreier,  Man       Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

On  The  Go  Dinner  Date 

News  Of  The  World  Gabriel   Heatter 


Local  Program 


7:45.  One    Man's    Family    In  The  Mood 


8:00  Henry  J.  Tayloi 


8:15 
8.30 
8:45 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 


Best  Of  All 


Telephone  Hour 
Band  Of  America 


Fibber  McGee  t 

Molly 
Great    Gildersleeve 
Wings  For  Tomorrow 


Top  Secret  Files 
Broadway  Cop 


News,  Lyle  Van 


ABC  Reporter 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,    News 
Quincy  Howe 
The  Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 


Jack  Gregson  Show 
American  Music  Hall 
Voice  Of  Firestone 


Camarata  Concert 


Gil  Houston  Show        9:25  News 
Reporters' Roundup    Freedom  Sings 


Musical  Almanac 
Albert  Warner 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 
Martha  Lou  Harp 


Jackson  6  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 


Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 


Perry  Como 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 

Orchestra 


Tuesday 


Evening    Programs 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 


9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


NBC 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Lux  Radio  Theater 
Lux  Theater  (con.) 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Listen  To 

Washington 


MBS 
Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 

John  Steele, 
Adventurer 


News,  Lyle  Van 
Gil  Houston  Show 


Gil  Houston  Show 

(con.) 
Albert  Warner 


ABC 
ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Silver  Eagle 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 
9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 

News 
Platterbrains 

9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 
Take  Thirty 


CBS 
Jackson  &  The  News 

Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Suspense 
8:25  News 
Mr.  Keen,  Tracer 
Of  Lost  Persons 


Rosemary  Clooney 
Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Orchestra 


Wednesday 

Evening   Programs 

6:00 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Jackson  &  The  News 

6:15 

Sports  Daily 

6:30 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

George  Hicks,  News 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex  Dreier, 

Fulton   Lewis,  Jr. 

Vandercook,  News 

Tennessee  Ernie 

7:15 

Man  On  The  Go 

Dinner  Date 

Quincy  Howe 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel  Heatter 

Lone  Ranger 

Choraliers 

7:45 

One  Man's  Family 

Les  Paul  &  Mary 
Ford 

7:55  Les  Griffith 

Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 

Dinah  Shore 

Squad  Room 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

FBI  In  Peace  And 

8:15 

Frank  Sinatra 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 

8:30 

News 

8:35  Barrie  Craig 

Sentenced 

21st  Precinct 

9:00 

You  Bet  Your  Life 

News,  Lyle  Van 

Sammy  Kaye 

Perry  Como 

9:15 

Gil  Houston  Show 

Bing  Crosby 

9:30 

Penitentiary 

Brown  Derby 

Amos  V  Andy  Music 

9:45 

Record  Room 

Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00 

Fibber  McGee  & 

Gil  Houston  Show 

News,  Edward  P. 

Orchestra 

Molly 

(con.) 

Morgan 

10:15 

Great  Gildersleeve 

Albert  Warner 

Richard  Rendell 

10:30 

Keys  To  The  Capital! 

Dunigans  &  Friends 

6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Thursday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Roy  Rogers 
Bob  Hope  Show 


News 

9:05  Spend  A  Million 
Where  Have  You 
Been? 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly  • 
Great    Gildersleeve 
Jane  Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Jr. 


Official  Detective 
Crime  Fighters 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Silver  Eagle 
7:55  Les   Griffith 


Jack   Gregson   Show 


Serenade  Room 


News,  Lyle  Van 

Parade  Of  Sports 

State  Of  The  Nation  Music  Tent 


9:55  News 


Gil  Houston  Show 
Albert  Warner 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 
Front  &  Center 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


The  Whistler 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Night  watch 


Rosemary  Clooney 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Evening    Programs 


Alex    Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 
Friday  With 
Garroway 


Garroway  (con.) 


Boxing- Cavalcade 
Of  Sports 

Sports  Highlights 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Les  Paul  &  Mary 
Ford 


Counter-Spy 
Take  A  Number 


News,  Lyle  Van 
Gil  Houston  Show 
Search  That  Never 
Ends 


Family  Theater 
Albert  Warner 


A8C  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 
Documentary 
9:55  Sport  Report 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Richard  Rendell 
Indoors  Unlimited 


Dance  Orchestra 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell   Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Crime  Photographer 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Godfrey  Digest 


Perry  Como 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 

9:55  News 


Dance  Orchestra 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Mot 

8:30 
8:45 

■ning  Progra 

ms 

Local  Program 

Doug  Browning 
Show 

News 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Serenade  To 
Romance 

News 

No  School 
Today 

News  Of  America 
Garden  Gate 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 
10:45 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Serenade  To 

Romance 
Roadshow, 

with  Bill  Cullen 

Amazing  Mr.  Whiz 

No  School 
Today  (con.) 

News 

10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

10:55  News 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 
11:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Lucky  Pierre 

Johnny  Desmond 

Show 
11:55  Young  Living 

11:05  Half-Pint 
Panel 

All  League  Club- 
house 

Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show 

Aftc 

12:00 
12:15 

12:30 
12:45 

moon  Progr 

National  Farm  And 
Home  Hour 

Pee  Wee  King  Show 

ams 

1  Asked  You 

Country  Jamboree 

News 

12:05  101  Ranch 

Boys 
American  Farmer 

Noon  News 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

Dude  Ranch 
Jamboree 
Roadshow  (con.) 

Fifth  Army  Band 

Symphonies  For 
Youth 

News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

Vincent  Lopez 

1 :55  News 

City  Hospital 
1:25  Galen  Drake 
News 

1:35  Stan  Daugherty 
Presents 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Symphonies  (con.) 
2:25  News 
Richard  Hayes 

Festival,  with 
Milton  Cross 

Dance  Orchestra 

Teddy  Wilson  Orch. 
Richard  Hayes 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Roadshow   (con.) 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

Festival  (con.) 

String  Serenade 
Skinnay  Ennis  Orch. 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Salute  The  Nation 

Festival  (con.) 

Dance  Orchestra 

5:00 

5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Teenagers  Unlimited 
5:55  News 

News 

Adventures  In 

Science 
Farm  News 
News 
5:35  Saturday  At 

The  Chase 

Evening    Programs 


6:00 

6:15 
6:30 

6:45 

News 

H.  V.  Kaltenborn 
Thy  Kingdom  Come 

John  T.  Flynn 

World  Traveler 
Report  From 

Washington 
Basil  Heatter 

6:05  Pan-American 

Union 
Sports,  Bob  Finnegan 
Bob  Edge,  Sports 

Afield 

News 

Sports  Review 
Capitol  Cloakroom 

7:00 

7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

NBC  Travel  Bureau 
7:05  Heart  Of  The 

News 
College  Quiz  Bowl 

True  Or  False 

News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Labor-Manage- 
ment Series 

News 

7:05  Make  Way  For 

Youth 
Gangbusters 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

Conversation 
Boston  Symphony 

Parade  Of  Sports 

News 

8:05  Dance  Party 

Gunsmoke 
Juke  Box  Jury 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Symphony  (con.) 
Grand  Ole  Opry 

Sports  (con.) 
Lombardo  Land 

News 

9:05  Dance  Party 
(con.) 

Two  For  The  Money 

Country  Style 
9:55  News 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

Tex  Williams  Show 
Town  Hall  Party 

Chicago  Theater  Of 
The  Air 

News 
10:05  Ozark 

Jubilee 
Ambassador  Hotel 

Country  Style  (con.) 
Dance  Orchestra 

Sunday 


NBC 


MBS 


Morning  Programs 

8:30 

8:45 


9:00 
9:15 


9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 


10:30 
10:45 


11:00 


11:15 
11:30 


11:45 


World  News  Roundup 
Carnival  Of  Books 

Faith  In  Action 

Art  Of  Living 


National  Radio 
Pulpit 

Headlines  In 
Perspective 


News 

1 1 :05  Stars  From 

Paris 
Pauline  Frederick 

At  UN 
UN  Assignment 


Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 


Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Frank  And  Ernest 

Northwestern 
Reviewing  Stand 


ABC 


Light  And  Life  Hour 


News 

9:05  Milton  Cross 

Album 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 


Sunday  Melodies 
11:05  Marines  On 
Review 

11:35  Christian  In 
Action 


CBS 


Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 


World  News  Roundup 
The  Music  Room 

Organ  Music, 

E.  Power  Biggs 
9:55  News 


Church  Of  The  Air 


Church  Of  The  Air 
(con.) 


Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 

Invitation  To 
Learning 


Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 

Music  For 

Marine  Band 

Pan-American 

News,  LeSueur 

Relaxation 

Union 

12:05  The  Leading 

12:15 

Question 

12:30 

The  Eternal  Light 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 

The  World  Tomorrow 

Philadelphia 
Symphony  Orch. 

12:45 

Merry  Mailman 

1:00 

Anthology 

Global  Frontiers 

Herald  Of  Truth 

Philadelphia 

1:15 

Christian  Science 

Symphony  (con.) 
News 

1:30 

Univ.  Of  Chicago 

Lutheran  Hour 

News 

1:45 

Round  Table 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

1:35  Syncopation 
Piece 

2:00 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Basil  Heatter 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 

Symphonette 

2:15 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

2:30 

Youth  Wants  To 

Wings  Of  Healing 

New  York  Philhar- 

2:45 

Know 

monic-Symphony 

3:00 

Weekend 

Wonderful  City 

News 

New  York  Philhar- 

3:15 

3:05  Air  Force   Show 

monic-Symphony 

3:30 

Have  A  Heart 

Hour  Of  Decision 

(con.) 

3:45 

4:00 

Weekend  (con.) 

Pop  The  Question 

Old-Fashioned 

News,  LeSueur 

4:15 

Revival  Hour 

4:05  On  A  Sunday 

4:30 

Nick  Carter 

Afternoon 

4:45 

4:55  Lome  Greene 

5:00 

Inheritance 

Adventures  Of  Rin 

News 

News 

5:15 

Tin  Tin 

5:05  Evening  Comes 

5:05  On  A  Sunday 

5:30 

Dennis  Day  Show 

True  Detective 

Greatest  Story 

Afternoon  (con.) 

5:45 

Mysteries 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Ever  Told 

5:55  News,  Trout 

Evening    Programs 

6:00 

American  Forum 

Public  Prosecutor- 
Jay  Jostyn 

Monday  Morning 
Headlines 

Gene  Autry 

6:15 

On  The  Line,  Bob 

PauJ  Harvey,  News 

6:30 

Nothing  But  Music 

Considine 

Hall  Of  Fame 

6:45 

Wismer,  Sports 

7:00 

Biographies  In 
Sound 

Rod  And  Gun  Club 

News 

7:05  Showtime 
Revue 

Jack  Benny 

7:15 

George  Sokolsky 

7:30 

Enchanted  Hour 

News 

7:35  Valentino 

Amos  V  Andy 

7:45 

7:55  NBC  Travel 
Bureau 

Travel  Talk 

8:00 

Dr.  Six  Gun 

Hawaii  Calls 

American  Town 

Our  Miss  Brooks 

8:15 

Meeting 

8:30 

Adventures  Of  The 

My  Little  Margie 

8:45 

Abbots 

9:00 

Sherlock  Holmes 

Walter  Winchell 

Rudy  Vallee  Show 

9:15 

News,  Quincy  Howe 

9:30 

Easy  Money 

Manion  Forum 

Sammy  Kaye 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 

9:55  News 

10:00 

Fibber  McGee  And 
Molly 

Billy  Graham 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

News,  Schorr 
10:05  Face  The  Na- 

10:15 

Great    Gildersleeve 

Elmer  Davis 

tion 

10:30 

Meet  The  Press 

Little  Symphonies 

Revival  Time 

John  Derr,  Sports 

Sec   Next   Page- 


81 


TV  program   highlights 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  APRIL  8— MAY  7 


Baseball  on  TV 

DATE          TIME  CH.                       GAME 
APRIL 

9,  Sat.       2:00  9  Yanks  vs.  Dodgers— Ex 

10,  Sun.      1:55  11  Dodgers  vs.  Yanks — Ex 

12,  Tu.        1:30  9  Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 

1:55  11  Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

13,  W.         1:55  11  Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

14,  Th.        1:25  11  Dodgers  vs.  Giants 

15,  Fri.        1:25  11  Dodgers  vs.  Giants 

16,  Sat.       1:55  11  Phila.  vs.  Giants 

17,  Sun.       1:55  11  Phila.  vs.  Giants— D 

18,  M.         1:25  11  Pgh.  vs.  Giants 

19,  Tu.        1 :25  11  Pgh.  vs.  Giants 

20,  W.         1:55  11  Bait.  vs.  Yanks 

8:00  9  Phila.  vs.  Dodgers 

21,  Th.        1 :55  11  Bait.  vs.  Yanks 

22,  F.           1 :55  11  Boston  vs.  Yanks 

8:00  9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

23,  Sat.        1:55  11  Boston  vs.  Yanks 

2:00  9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 

24,  Sun.      1:55  11  Boston  vs.  Yanks 

2:00  9  Giants  vs.  Dodgers 


DATE  TIME 

26,  Tu.  8:00 
8:00 
1:25 
1:25 
1:30 
8:00 
8:00 
1:55 
2:00 


27,  W. 

28,  Th. 

29,  F. 

30,  Sat. 


MAY 
1,  Sun. 

2,M. 
3,Tu. 
4,  W. 

5,Th. 

6,F. 

7,  Sat. 

8,  Sun. 


1:55 
2:00 
1:30 
8:00 
1:25 
8:00 
1:25 
1:30 
8:00 
1:55 
1:55 


Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 
Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 

Cine.  vs.  Giants — D 
Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 
Chi.  vs.  Giants 
Chi.  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 
Chi.  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 
Pgh.  vs.  Giants 
Pgh.  vs.  Giants 
Pgh.  vs.  Giants 


Ex — Exhibition    game 


D — Doubleheader 


7:00 

o 

o 

9:00 

0 

10:00 

0 

O 

10:30 

0 

O 

11:00 

o 

11:30 

0 

12:00 

0 

O 

12:15 

0 

12:30 

0 

O 

o 

12:45 

0 

1:00 

0 

0 

1:15 

0 

1:30 

0 

2:00  0 

2:30 

0 

<D 

3:00 

0 

O 

© 

3:15 

O 

3:30 

8 

3:45 

O 

4:00 

0 

O 

4:15 

0 

4:30 

§ 

o 

6:30 

<D 

7:00 
7:15 

8 

7:30 

O 

D 

nah 

Wed., 

o 

7:45 

0 

Fi 

i.;  J 

o 

T 

v     10:00 

o 

*      1 1  -.00 

0 

11:15 

o 

12:45 

0 

82 


Monday  through  Friday 


DAYTIME 
Morning  Show— Wake  up  to  Paar 
&  00  Today — With  gracious  Garroway 
George  Skinner  Show— Variety 
Garry  Moore  Show — He  sends  you 
&  Q0  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nursery 
Arthur  Godfrey  Time— Time  for  fun 
&  [¥]  Way  Of  The  World-Drama 
Home — Arlene  Francis,  femcee 
&  00  Strike   It  Rich— Quiz  for  needy 
Valiant   Lady— Stars   Flora   Campbell 
&  00  Tennessee  Ernie  Show— Socko 
&  00  Love  Of  Life— Daytime  drama 
&  00  Search  For  Tomorrow— Serial 
Feather    Your    Nest— Collyer's    quiz 
Entertainment— 2V2  hours  of  variety 
(&  S  at  2:30)  The  Guiding   Light 
Portia  Faces  Life— Fran  Carlon  stars 
Claire  Mann— For  health  &  beauty 
Road  Of  Life— Don  MacLaughlin  stars 
&  00  Welcome  Travelers— From  Chi. 
&  00  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show— A  joy 
Art  Linkletter's  House  Party 
Liberace— Valentino  of  the   piano 
&  00  The  Big  Payoff— Mink-lined  quiz 
The  Greatest  Gift— Ann  Burr  stars 
Paul  Dixon  Show— Musicmimics 
The  Golden  Windows— Daily  story 
Bob  Crosby  Show— Gay  &  tuneful 
&  00  One    Man's    Family— Serial 
&  00  Concerning  Miss  Marlowe 
fit  00  Brighter  Day— Daily  story 
Hawkins  Falls— Small  town  serial 
&  00  Secret   Storm— Daytime   drama 
First  Love— Pat  Barry  in  lead 
&         On  Your  Account— Quiz  for  $$$ 
World  Of  Mr.  Sweeney— Chuckles 

EARLY   EVENING 
Liberace— Songs  and  talk 
Kukla,  Fran  &  Ollie— Cute  stuff 
John  Daly  Comments— News 
&  00  Singers— Tony      Martin,      Mon.; 
Shore,    Tues.,    Thurs.;    Eddie     Fisher, 
Fri. 

Million  Dollar  Movies 
Singers— Perry  Como,  Mon.,  Wed.   & 
o  Stafford,  Tues.;  Jane  Froman,  Thurs. 
News  Caravan— Suave  Swayze 

LATE   NIGHT 
Million   Dollar  Movies 
News  &  Sports 

Tonight— Steve  Allen's   big   show 
The  Late,  Late  Show— Feature  films 


Monday  P.Mi 


7:30  0  Life  With  Elizabeth-Neve,    dull 

©  Name's  The  Same— Panel  quiz 
8:00  0  Burns  &  Allen— Dizzy  duo 

©&  QO  Caesar's    Hour  — Sid's    solid. 
Fourth  week,  May  2,  Producer's  Showcase 
8:30  0  Talent  Scouts— Godfrey's  showcase 

©  Voice  Of  Firestone— Longhair 
9:00  0  &  00  I  Love  Lucy— Desi  has  a   Ball 

©  The  Medic— Absorbing,  realistic  tales 
9:30  0  &  p.]  December    Bride— Lafftime 
©  Robert   Montgomery   Presents 
10:00  ©  &  00  Studio  One— Exciting  dramas 
10:30  ©  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  as  Steve 


Tuesday 


8:00  ©  Life  With   Father— Family   comedy 
©  &  {U  Milton  Berle-Apr.  12,  Apr.  26; 
Martha  Raye,  Apr.  19;  Bob  Hope,  May  3 
©  Life  Is  Worth  Living— Bishop  Sheen 

8:30  ©  Halls  Of  Ivy— The  Colmans  in  college 
©  Studio  57— Filmed  stories 
©  20  Questions— Vegetable,  animal,  etc. 

9:00  ©  Meet  Millie— Dazzling,  dizzy   blonde 
©  Fireside  Theater— Filmed  dramas 
©  Make  Room  For  Daddy— Fun! 

9:30  ©  &  00  Red  Skelton  Show— Comedy 
©  CircleTheater— Dramas  notforsquares 
©  U.S.  Steel  Theater— Elgin  Theater 
10:00  ©  Danger— Heart-thumpers 

O  &  0  Truth  Or  Consequences 
©  Ernie  Kovacs  Show— Zany!   Crazy! 
10:30  0  See  It  Now— Murrow's  prize-winner 
©  It's  A  Great  Life— And  a  wild  one! 
©  Stop  The  Music— Lovely  tinkle  of  $$$ 


Thursday 


Wednesday 


7:00  ©  &  00  Norby— David  Wayne  stars 
7:30  ©  Disneyland— Nature,  fantasy,  history 
8:00  ©  &00  Godfrey  &  Friends— Top  variety 
8:30  ©  (&  |  :■:  |  at  9:30)  My  Little  Margie 

©  Stu   Erwin— Comedy  for   Stu's   in   one 
9:00  0  &  i  >.   The  Millionaire— $tories 

©  Kraft  Theater— Live,  hour  teleplays 

0  Masquerade    Party— Quiz 
9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret— More  of  Moore 

0  Who  Said  That?— John  Daly,  of  course 
10:00  ©  &  00  Blue  Ribbon  Boxing 

O  This  Is  Your  Life— Ralph  Edwards 
10:30  ©  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Tall  tales 

©  Eddie   Cantor  Show— Ida's  old   man 


8:00  ©  Meet  Mr.  McNulty-Mirthful  Milland 
©  &  00  You   Bet  Your  Life— Groucho 

8:30  0  Climax! — Hour  suspense  stories,  except 
April  14,  Shower  Of  Stars— musical 
©  Justice— In  the  end,  you  get  it 
©  T-Men  In  Action— Police  adventure 

9:00  ©  fit  [I]  Dragnet— Webb  weaves  one 
©  Star  Tonight— Half-hour  teleplays 

9:30  ©  Four  Star  Playhouse— Filmed  dramas 
©  &  QO  Ford  Theater— Filmed  stories 
©  Pond's  Theater— Hour-long  teleplays 
10:00  ©  Public  Defender— Reed  Hadley  stars 
©  &  00  Lux  Video  Theater— Drama 
0  Ernie  Kovacs  Show— More  madness 
10:30  ©  Willy— Comedy  Havoc  with  June 

©  Racket  Squad— Reed  Hadley  still  stars 


Friday 


8:00  ©  &  00  Mama— Warm  &  friendly 

©  Red    Buttons— Comedy    revue.    Every 
fourth  week,  Apr.  8  &  May  6,  Jack  Carson 
©  Ozzie  &  Harriet— The  greatest 

8:30  ©  Topper — Hocus-pocus   comedy 

©  &  [JO  Life  Of  Riley— Comedy,  Bendix 
©  Ray  Bolger  Show— Witty,  sparkling 

9:00  ©  Playhouse  Of  Stars— Filmed  dramas 
©  &  00  Big  Story— Hard-hitting  stories 
©  Mr.  &  Mrs.  North-Whodunits 

9:30  ©  Our  Miss  Brooks— Eve  Arden  funfest 
©  &  00  Dear    Phoebe— Peter    Lawford 
©  The  Vise-Bill  of  thrills 
10:00  ©  The  Line-Up— Taut  police  work 

©  &  HO  Cavalcade   Of  Sports— Boxing 
©  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
10:30  ©  Person  To  Person— Murrow's  visits 
©  Down  You  Go— Panel  panic 


Saturday 


7:30  ©  Beat  The  Clock— Stunts  for  prizes 

©  Show  Wagon— Heidt's  talent  salute 
8:00  0  Jackie  Gleason— The   Honeymooners 
0  &  00  Mickey  Rooney— Comedy  series 
8:30  ©  &  Oil  So  This  Is  Hollywood— Comedy 
9:00  ©  Two  For  The  Money— Quiz,  Shriner 
©  &  00  Imogene  Coca— Big  laughs;  ev- 
ery fourth  week,  Apr.  9  &  May  7,  Max  Lieb- 
man   Presents 

©  Ozark  Jubilee— Variety,  country-style 
9:30  ©  My  Favorite  Husband— Gleeful 
©  &  FI  Durante-O'Connor  Show 
Jimmy,  Apr.  9,  23,  May  7;  Donald,  Apr.  16, 30 
10:00  ©  &  00  George  Gobel— Gobs  of  laughs 
10:30  ©  Damon   Runyon  Theater— Stories 
©  &  00  Your  Hit  Parade— Picturesque 


Sunday 


6:30  ©  &  00  You  Are  There— Re-live  history 
7:30  ©  &  00  People  Are  Funny— Linkletter 
©  You  Asked  For  It— Art  Baker,  emcee 
7:30  ©  &  Oil  J«ck  Benny  Show— Apr.  17  & 
May  1;  alternating  with  Ann  Sothern's  come- 
dy, Private  Secretary 

©  Mr.  Peepers— Wally  Cox  comedy  ex- 
cept Apr.  24,  Max  Liebman  Presents 
8:00  ©  &  00  Toast  Of  The  Town— Variety 

©  Comedy  Hour— Big  deal 
9:00  ©  G-E  Theater— Ronald  Reagan,  host 

©  &  00  TV  Playhouse— Full-hour  plays 
9:30  ©  Stage  7— Hollywood  stars  emote 

0  Life  Begins  At  80— Jack  Barry,  emcee 
10:00  ©  Adventure  Theater— Live  thrillers 
©  &  00  Loretta  Young  Show— Stories 
©  Break  The  Bank— $$$  Quiz,  Parks 
10:30  0  &  |0  What's  My  Line?— Job  game 

©  Bob  Cummings  Show— Zoomerooney 


All  Play,  No  Work 

(Continued  from  page  66) 
sometimes  be  surprised  at  the  number  of 
doors  it  has  opened  up." 

The  most  notable  door  a  hobby  has 
opened  for  Bill  is  that  of  broadcasting  itelf. 
"Belonging  to  a  camera  club  in  school 
started  it,"  he  recalls.  "My  father,  who  was 
an  automobile  dealer  in  Pittsburgh,  built 
a  darkroom  for  me  on  the  second  floor  of 
the  garage.  Some  of  my  pictures  were  pub- 
lished in  the  Pittsburgh  Post  Gazette.  Then 
they  hired  me,  but  I  never  worked  as  a 
photographer.  I  took  the  job  only  because 
they  also  had  a  radio  station,  WWSW,  and 
I  was  immediately  transferred  to  it.  I  had 
an  all-night  disc- jockey  show." 

The  show,  too,  went  into  the  hobby  clas- 
sification, for  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cullen  wanted 
their  only  son  to  be  a  doctor.  "As  I  saw  it 
at  that  time,"  Bill  says,  "my  major  job  was 
to  get  my  M.D.  I  was  in  pre-med  school 
and  doing  well  when  I  realized  I  didn't 
want  to  heal,  I  wanted  to  entertain." 

Immediately,  he  changed  his  direction. 
"For  four  years  I  applied  myself  to  radio. 
I  learned  all  I  could  in  Pittsburgh,  then 
came  to  New  York  and  started  making  that 
learning  pay  off." 

Here,  again,  a  hobby  diverted  him.  Says 
Bill,  "I  had  learned  to  fly  before  I  was  even 
of  legal  age.  A  pilot,  who  was  a  friend  of 
my  father,  took  me  up.  I  soloed  at  sixteen. 
Since  I  stayed  crazy  about  airplanes,  I  put 
some  of  my  radio  dough  into  a  charter  ser- 
vice." 

The  charter  service  brought  problems 
and  Bill  concentrated  on  licking  them  until 
the  day  he  asked  himself  what  would  hap- 
pen when  the  business  turned  profitable. 
"That  was  the  second  time  a  hobby  showed 
me  what  I  did  not  want  to  do,"  he  re- 
marks. "It  cost  me  a  sum  of  money,  but  it 
was  worth  it,  for  I  stayed  where  I  belonged 
and  now  fly  only  for  fun.  Nothing  has  ever 
really  tempted  me  away  from  radio  and 
TV." 

Radio  and  TV  sponsors,  listeners  and 
viewers  reciprocate.  By  rewarding  him 
with  many  shows,  they  have  indicated  they 
are  not  likely  to  be  tempted  away  from 
Bill.  Bill  relishes  every  one  and  whenever 
the  pace  gets  hectic,  he  applies  his  magic 
antidote  for  tension — hobbies. 

Bill  defines  a  hobby  as  "anything  you 
don't  have  to  do."  In  addition  to  flying  and 
photography,  his  include  oil  painting,  carv- 
ing boats,  reading,  skeet  shooting  and 
raising  tropical  fish.  His  interest  in  any 
one  is  intense,  but  intermittent.  When 
reading  takes  his  fancy,  he  will,  for  a 
period,  devour  every  book  in  sight,  then 
stop  reading  for  a  month  or  two  and  scarce- 
ly glance  at  a  newspaper.  "I'm  a  diversi- 
fier,"  he  says.  "I'll  give  myself  to  anything 
only  until  it  starts  to  hurt.  Then  I  change. 
It's  a  recipe  for  total  enjoyment." 

He  suspects,  too,  that  such  enthusiasm, 
which  usually  is  the  luxury  of  the  amateur 
only,  also  accounts  for  his  zest  for  radio  and 
television.  "I  like  things  to  come  easily. 
When  I  start  to  hurt  my  head  thinking,  I'm 
through.  And  broadcasting  is  always  fun. 
There  isn't  anyone  I  know  who  doesn't 
work  harder  than  I  do.  I'm  having  a  ball." 


•••••••••••••••••••••••••it** 

INVEST  IN 

U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 

NOW  EVEN  BETTER 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••a 


THE  MOST  EXCITING 
EVENT  OF  THE  YEAH 


The  gorgeous  new  TV-Radio  Annual  is  now 
available  to  you.  This  exciting  1955  yearbook 
is  better  than  ever!  It  covers  all  the  Television 
and  Radio  events  of  the  year.  You'll  enjoy  the 
hundreds  of  new  illustrations  and  you'll  be 
simply  thrilled  to  read  the  behind-the-scenes 
stories  of  all  your  favorite  stars.  Below  is  a 
brief  description  of  this  important  Annual: 

NEWS  EVENTS  OF  THE  YEAR— The  behind-the- 
scenes  stories  of  Eve  Arden  and  Brooks  West 

•  Anne  Jeffreys  and  Robert  Sterling  •  Flor- 
ence Halop  •  Bob  Smith  •  Paul  Dixon  •  Steve 
Allen  and  Jayne  Meadows  •  Wally  Cox  •  Jack 
Webb  •  Milton  Berle. 

NEW  SHOWS  OF  THE  YEAR— Stars  new  and  old, 
who  helped  make  recent  history.  Robert  Q- 
Lewis  •  Sid  Caesar  •  Imogene  Coca  •  Florian 
ZaBach  •  Edgar  Bergen  •  George  Gobel  • 
Jack  Paar  •   Betty  White  •   Michael  O'Shea 

•  James  Dunn  •  William  Bishop  •  Eddie 
Mayehoff  •  Gil  Stratton,  Jr. 

WHO'S  WHO  ON— Breakfast  Club  •  Father 
Knows  Best  •  Beat  The  Clock  •  Two  For  The 
Money  •  The  Garry  Moore  Show  •  Your  Hit 
Parade  •  The  Halls  Of  Ivy  •  Our  Miss  Brooks 

•  Masquerade  Party  •  My  Favorite  Husband  • 
Fibber  McGee  And  Molly  •  Lassie  •  The  Big 
Payoff  •  The  Jackie  Gleason  Show. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES— Arthur  Godfrey  •  Ozzie 
and  Harriet  Nelson  •  Ralph  Edwards  •  Bert 
Parks  •  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  •  Warren  Hull 


•  Bill  Cullen  •  Roy  Rogers  •  Gene  Autry  • 
Red  Buttons  •  Jack  Bailey  •  Jack  Barry  •  Ed 
Sullivan  •  Art  Linkletter  •  Donald  O'Connor 

•  Jimmy  Durante  •  Tom  Moore. 
GORGEOUS  NEW  COLOR  PORTRAITS  OF  THE  STARS— 
Thrilling  4-color   photographs  of   Liberace  • 
Lucille  Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz  •  Eddie  Fisher 

•  Gale  Storm.  These  full  page  true-to-life  por- 
traits are  so  unusual  that  you  will  want  to 
frame  each  one  of  them! 

PLUS — Pictures  and  biographies  from  the  most 

beloved   daytime   dramas   on    radio   and   TV. 

ONLY   50c— WHILE  THEY    LAST 

This  terrific  Annual  is  a  sell-out  each  year. 
No  wonder — everybody  wants  a  copy  and 
only  a  limited  number  are  printed.  Send  50c 
with  coupon  for  your  copy  TODAY. 

r«  MAIL  COUPON  TODAY  — ., 

TV-RADIO   MIRROR  RM-555 

205  E.  42nd  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  TV-RADIO 
ANNUAL  1955.  1  enclose  50c. 


Name. 


Please  Print 


Address 

City State. 


83 


The  Folks  at  Home 


(Continued  from  page  65) 
assignment  on  Home  also  meant  moving 
his  family  East — with  Ruth,  and  children 
Hugh  Raymond,  9,  and  Deirdre,  6.  Now 
they  all  live  in  Westport,  Connecticut, 
where  Hugh  continues  to  pursue  a  variety 
of  hobbies  from  astronomy  to  composing 
classical  music.  Hugh  likes  Early  American 
furniture,  as  does  Ruth,  and  they  both  en- 
joy refinishing  their  own  antiques.  Hugh 
also  likes  to  read — history  and  philosophy 
particularly — enjoys  sailing,  and  belongs  to 
a  gourmet  club. 

Fashion  and  Beauty  Editor  Natalie  Core 
adds  her  share  of  freshness  and  charm  to 
Home.  A  radio,  TV,  and  stage  actress,  as 
well  as  a  fashion  commentator,  Natalie  was 
a  Washington,  D.  C,  personality,  specializ- 
ing in  women's  dramatic  shows,  before 
coming  to  New  York.  Married  to  actor- 
playwright  John  H.  O'Hare,  Natalie  lives 
in  mid-Manhattan.  Her  off-camera  pas- 
times include  painting  in  watercolor,  col- 
lecting sea  shells  and  beads  and  decorating 
boxes  with  them,  and  engaging  in  sports, 
from  skiing  to  horseback  riding.  Concern- 
ing fashions,  Natalie  believes  that  "women 
should  try  to  look  the  best  they  can  by 
choosing  a  style  that  looks  attractive  on 
them  and  sticking  with  it — no  matter  what 
the  current  fashion  is."  With  this  in  mind, 
Natalie  concentrates  on  making  her  pre- 
sentations practical  as  well  as  interesting 
for  Home  viewers. 

In  charge  of  Home's  culinary  department 
is  Kit  Kinne,  an  experienced  home  econ- 
omist professionally  and  privately.  In  addi- 
tion to  having  her  own  cooking  show  on 
TV,  Kit  has  served  as  TV  commercial  de- 
signer for  various  large  food  concerns, 
taught  merchandise  comparison  and  sales 
technique,  and  was  an  overseas  recreation 


worker  for  the  American  Red  Cross.  In 
private  life,  Kit  is  the  wife  of  Charles 
Sigety,  a  young  lawyer  and  a  good  cook 
himself,  and  mother  of  a  two-year-old  boy. 
Kit  and  Charles  are  partners  in  a  business 
called  Video  Vittles,  and  they  also  serve 
as  consultants  and  designers  of  TV  food 
commercials.  As  Home's  Cooking  Editor, 
Kit  tries  to  "not  only  make  cooking 
easier  and  more  interesting,  but  more 
economical,  too,  by  presenting  good,  taste- 
ful budget  menus  in  addition  to  the  fan- 
cier, 'special  occasion  recipes.'  "  Judging 
from  the  way  the  Home  staff  dives  into  her 
food  after  a  show,  Kit's  ideas  and  results 
have  found  their  way  to  everyone's  hearts. 

Originally  a  member  of  the  Home  staff 
as  off-camera  food  editor,  Nancyann  Gra- 
ham finds  her  present  role  as  Home  Dec- 
oration Editor  doubly  exciting.  For,  in  ad- 
dition to  guiding  viewers  on  decorating 
matters,  she  and  her  husband  Richard  are 
busy  doing  the  same  with  their  own  apart- 
ment in  New  York.  They  decorated  it 
themselves  and  made  most  of  their  own 
furniture,  trying  to  buy  only  those  items 
which  can  someday  be  transplanted  to  their 
dream  house.  A  graduate  of  Cornell  Uni- 
versity, Nancyann  appeared  on  a  num- 
ber of  women's  programs  on  New  York 
stations  and  in  Boston.  It  was  while  in  Bos- 
ton that  she  met  her  husband,  then  a  Navy 
man  and  now  a  businessman. 

Possessor  of  Home's  greenest  thumb,  Will 
Peigelbeck  brings  to  the  show  a  wealth  of 
helpful  and  interesting  material  in  his  role 
as  Gardening  and  How-to-fix-it  Editor. 
Before  joining  Home,  Will  had  taught  agri- 
culture and  had  had  several  gardening 
shows  of  his  own  on  radio.  Just  as  busy 
with  growing  things  off-camera  as  on,  Will, 
with  the  aid  of  his  wife  Erma  and  their 


children,  Gary,  11,  and  Karla,  8,  maintains 
a  la/2-acre  flower,  vegetable  and  plant  farm 
in  Metuchen,  New  Jersey.  "You  have  to 
plan  way  ahead  when  dealing  with  grow- 
ing things,"  Will  explains.  "I'm  planting 
now  the  things  I'll  need  next  year."  And 
Home  viewers  are  looking  forward  to  the 
results,  knowing  that  Will  will  do  all  he  can 
to  make  their  thumbs  a  little  greener,  too. 

Just  as  there  are  so  many  facets  to  home 
life  and  lore,  so  Home  tries  to  be  as  versa- 
tile and  far-reaching  as  possible.  Cover- 
ing the  field  of  physical  health  is  the  noted 
Dr.  Leona  Baumgartner,  Commissioner  of 
Health  for  New  York  City.  Whenever  a 
portion  of  Home  is  devoted  to  family  af- 
fairs, Dr.  Ashley  Montagu,  well-known  an- 
thropologist and  social  biologist,  is  on 
hand  to  discuss  subjects  from  difficult  chil- 
dren to  the  meaning  of  love.  And,  because 
ways  of  life  are  so  different  in  all  parts  of 
this  vast  land  of  ours,  Home  has  its  region- 
al editors:  Lovely  Dorsey  Connors,  who  al- 
so conducts  her  own  how-to-do-it  show 
on  Chicago  TV,  serves  as  Midwest  Editor; 
Esther  Van  Wagoner  Tufty,  who  heads  her 
own  news  bureau,  is  Washington  Edi- 
tor; and,  since  last  January,  Marjorie 
Trumbull,  popular  San  Francisco  TV  per- 
sonality, has  served  in  the  newly  created 
role  of  West  Coast  Editor.  Then,  too,  from 
time  to  time,  there  are  guest  experts  from 
all  fields  of  interest. 

Although  Home  is  still  a  comparatively 
new  program,  it  has  made  tremendous 
strides  in  fulfilling  its  aim  to  be  "a  woman's 
magazine  that  comes  alive  ...  a  television 
wonderland."  And,  with  an  eye  ta  the  fu- 
ture and  the  endless,  exciting  people, 
places,  events  and  subjects  Home  is  plan- 
ning to  cover,  viewers  can  rest  assured 
that  "the  best  is  yet  to  be." 


f;i 


(Continued  from  page  56) 
Television    gets    you    into    all    kinds    of 
things." 

Getting  into  all  kinds  of  things  is,  in 
Garry's  opinion,  a  condition  much  to  be 
desired.  "It  keeps  you  alert.  It  keeps  you 
young."  He  paused  for  a  moment  to  reflect. 
"Now  I'm  a  fairly  unspectacular  kind  of 
guy — I  love  my  wife,  enjoy  my  kids,  go 
home  at  five  o'clock  like  any  other  com- 
muter. But  when  I  think  of  the  things  that 
have  happened  to  me  in  the  past  five 
years.  .  .  ." 

Any  enumeration  of  the  things  which 
have  happened  to  Garry  Moore  might  well 
have  included  such  items  as  presenting 
comedian  George  Gobel  in  his  first  net- 
work television  series  .  .  .  running  "Op- 
eration Penny,"  which  brought  in  enough 
one-cent  pieces  to  build  a  much-needed 
little  schoolhouse  in  Indiana  .  .  .  "giving 
away"  Durward  Kirby  for  a  weekend  .  .  . 
and  showering  a  young  Michigan  couple 
with  an  unexpected  eight  thousand  dollars 
when  he  suggested  that  viewers  each  send 
them  a  nickel,  "just  for  nothing." 

Garry,  however,  focused  on  a  more  ad- 
venturous phase.  "Do  you  realize  I've  met 
more  than  two  hundred  wild  animals  face 
to  face?  I've  ridden  an  elephant,  wrestled 
an  alligator,  matched  muscles  with  a  py- 
thon and  outwitted  an  angry  ant-eater." 

Personal  encounters  with  such  creatures 
would  have  provided  a  professional  ex- 
plorer with  material  for  a  dozen  lecture 
lours,  but  Garry  has  no  such  tall  tales  of 
travel.  He  does  his  big-game  hunting  with- 
out ever  leaving  his  mid-Manhattan  studio 
— and  got  into  it  just  by  chance:  "It  all 
started  the  day  we  invited  Ivan  Sanderson 


Garry  Moore's  Got  It! 

to  make  just  one  appearance,  bringing  in 
one  of  his  wild  animals.  Now  Ivan,  in  addi- 
tion to  being  a  fine  performer,  also  is  an 
interesting  and  learned  natural  scientist. 
It  turned  out  to  be  so  much  fun  we've  had 
an  animal  on  once  a  week  ever  since." 

"Fun,"  one  of  Garry's  favorite  words, 
may  serve  him  as  a  description  of  the  hap- 
penings which  ensued,  but  some  of  the 
members  of  Garry's  production  staff  have 
watched  a  few  of  his  encounters  with  their 
blood  close  to  curdling.  In  Garry's  efforts 
to  learn  an  animal  trainer's  technique  in 
front  of  four  unwinking  television  cam- 
eras and  in  full  view  of  a  goodly  portion 
of  the  populace,  he  has  had  a  number  of 
close  calls. 

His  wrestling  the  alligator  gave  his  back- 
stage assistants,  Shirley  Reeser  McNally 
and  Marcia  Durant,  a  fine  case  of  shudders. 
"Ross  Allen,  the  handler,  brought  it  from 
the  Reptile  Institute  of  Florida,"  says  Mar- 
cia. "The  beast  was  eight  feet  long,  weighed 
three  hundred  pounds  and  was  kept  in  a 
huge  box  of  sand.  Allen  told  Garry  to  be 
sure  to  stay  out  of  reach  of  the  'gator's  'fifth 
leg.'  Things  went  all  right  at  rehearsal,  but 
by  the  next  day,  the  sand  had  warmed  up 
and  the  alligator  had  warmed  up.  Instead 
of  being  sluggish,  it  was  wild  and  vicious. 
We  all  held  our  breaths,  but  Garry  flipped 
it  over,  easy  as  you  please.  Our  only  real 
problem  turned  out  to  be  how  to  get  rid 
of  the  sand  after  the  show  was  over.  You 
can't  just  dump  a  quarter  of  a  ton  of  sand 
out  on  a  New  York  pavement." 

The  wrestling  bear  is  Shirley's  candidate 
for  no-return-engagement.  "Its  trainer 
said  that  the  trick  was  to  keep  back  and 
never  let  the  bear's  paws  hang  down.  If 


the  bear  once  got  his  paws  pushing  down, 
he  would  be  able  to  throw  his  whole 
weight  on  Garry.  It  sounded  simple.  But, 
on  the  show,  the  bear  moved  in  and  Garry 
had  to  push  him  pretty  hard  to  keep  from 
getting  crushed.  After  the  show  was  over, 
we  got  even  more  scared,  just  thinking 
about  what  could  have  happened,  for  then 
the  trainer  blithely  told  us  that  only  two 
other  men  had  ever  met  up  with  the  bear 
without  getting  hurt.  Those  men,  he  also 
informed  us,  were  both  heavyweight  box- 
ing champions.  Garry,  who  certainly  is  no 
heavyweight,  felt  pretty  pleased  with  him- 
self." 

His  self-satisfaction  lasted  only  until  the 
mail  came  in.  "Some  of  the  letters  were 
very  irate,"  says  Shirley.  "People  wanted 
to  know  what  Garry  meant,  hitting  that 
poor  bear." 

In  contrast,  not  a  single  squawk  resulted 
from  the  bloodiest  injury  to  occur  on  the 
show.  Two  supposedly  tame  beavers  went 
berserk.  Just  before  the  cameras  turned  on 
them,  one  gashed  the  owner's  hand,  then 
scurried  down  to  hide  in  Howard  Smith's 
piano.  There  was  no  time  to  do  anything 
about  it,  so,  with  Ivan  Sanderson  helping 
him,  the  owner  went  on  with  the  act.  To 
cover  his  injury,  he  put  his  hand  in  his 
pocket.  However,  the  wound  bled,  the 
blood  dripped  on  the  stage  and  the  cam- 
eramen were  unable  to  keep  it  out  of  view. 
Says  Shirley,  "That's  when  Ivan  Sander- 
son used  his  head.  As  soon  as  the  act  was 
over,  he  came  out  and  said  he  wanted  to 
tell  everybody  that  the  beavers  were  all 
right.  It  was  just  the  owner  who  got  hurt." 

Having  a  rock  python  get  a  strangle  hold 
around  his  neck  didn't  even  make  Garry's 


short-cropped  hair  stand  up  in  an  extra 
bristle.  "That  python  was  a  delightful  ani- 
mal," he  recalls.  "It  was  eleven  feet  long, 
weighed  one  hundred  and  twenty-five 
pounds,  and  was  a  real  beauty.  Ivan,  who 
always  briefs  me  on  things  to  watch  out 
for,  had  told  me  that  it  wouldn't  conscious- 
ly do  me  any  harm,  but  that  I  should  be 
careful  not  to  let  it  constrict.  Well,  there  it 
was,  around  my  neck,  when  I  got  interest- 
ed in  something  else  and  forgot  his  warn- 
ing. It  was  my  fault,  entirely.  I  was  wool- 
gathering until  I  felt  the  snake  start  to 
tighten  up.  But  I  just  motioned  to  Ivan.  He 
lifted  it  up  and  I  pulled  my  head  out." 

What  even  Garry  admits  was  a  "near 
one"  occurred  when  the  six-foot  South 
African  ant-eater  came  to  visit.  "She  had 
no  teeth  whatsoever,  but  she  did  have  a 
pair  of  claws  which  could  absolutely  evis- 
cerate you.  She  also  had  her  baby  on  her 
back,  and  when  they  let  her  out  of  the 
cage,  she  must  have  decided  she  wasn't  go- 
ing to  let  anyone  near  that  baby  ant-eater. 
She  took  after  me,  and  Ivan  grabbed  her 
by  the  tail  and  pulled  her  back.  Then  she 
made  for  Ivan  and  so  I  grabbed  her  tail 
and  pulled  her  back.  We  had  a  right  lively 
little  game  of  tag  going  on  for  a  few  min- 
utes." 

Zip,  the  chimp,  is  Garry's  favorite  among 
the  animals.  "He's  a  mischief.  He  clowns 
and  steals  things  and  you  never  can  tell 
what  he's  going  to  do.  I  always  feel  I've  got 
to  go  some  to  prove  that  I'm  as  smart  as 
he  is." 

Although  he  now  is  an  enthusiastic  and 
studious  member  of  the  New  York  Zoologi- 
cal Society,  Garry  prepared  for  his  animal 
training  with  what  he  calls:  "Just  the  usual 
run  of  household  pets — snakes,  mice,  para- 
keets, a  European  hedgehog.  A  skunk,  too, 
but  of  course  he'd  had  his  opinion  re- 
moved." 

At  present,  Garry  considers  his  Rye,  New 
York,  home  virtually  de-populated.  "Nell 
and  our  boys  are  just  as  fond  of  animals  as 
I  am,"  he  says.  "But  all  we've  got  now  is 
one  springer  spaniel  named  Sam,  and  Sam 
is  by  all  means  the  world's  most  jealous 
dog.  The  only  thing  he'll  let  us  have 
around  the  house  is  the  tank  of  tropical 
fish  which  the  kids  on  the  show  gave  me  a 
year  ago  Christmas.  It's  a  shame,  too,  for 
a  friend  of  ours  has  a  llama  she  is  willing 
to  lend  us  and  that  llama  is  the  sweetest 
animal  .  .  ."  With  obvious  self-discipline 
he  pulled  his  mind  back  from  yearning  for 
that  llama.  "You  might  say  that  it  all  adds 
up  to  the  fact  that  the  thing  I  like  best 
about  television  is  that  here  I  can  make  a 
living  just  playing  games. 

"It's  a  funny  thing,  but  do  you  know  this 
is  the  same  as  my  first  show — as  all  my 
shows,  really.  In  Baltimore,  the  program 
was  called  High  Noon  High  Jinks.  In  St. 
Louis,  it  was  Midafternoon  Madness.  In 
Chicago,  the  title  was  Club  Matinee.  In 
New  York,  Anything  Goes.  It's  just  a 
family  of  good  friends,  getting  together. 
The  only  difference  is  twenty  years  of  ex- 
perience— and  pictures.  That  even  applies 
to  I've  Got  A  Secret.  Although  that's  a 
panel  show,  it  has  the  overtones  of  people 
having  fun." 

Just  once — when  he  worked  with  Jimmy 
Durante — has  he  departed  from  this  com- 
fortable format.  "It  sounds  funny  to  say  it," 
Garry  says,  "but  do  you  know  those  were 
the  most  frustrating  five  years  of  my  life? 
I  learned  a  great  deal,  and  I  was  fairly  suc- 
cessful, it's  true,  but  the  whole  pattern  of 
the  show  was  foreign  to  me.  There  I  was, 
being  a  stand-up  comedian,  reading  lines 
someone  else  had  written,  where  every 
word  was  polished  hard  as  a  diamond.  It 
just  wasn't  my  style.  I  finally  quit  and 
went  back  to  what  I  liked  best — the  day- 
time show  that  rolls  along  easy,  a  place 
where  I  can  make  a  living  playing  games." 


OPPORTUNITIES 


for  EVERYBODY 


Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  classified  advertising  rales,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (May-Worn.)  5 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


$200  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo  (all  ages)— if  used  by  adver- 
tisers. Send  one  small  photo  for  approval.  Print  child's-parent's 
name-address  on  back.  Returned  30  days.  No  obligation. 
Spotlite,  5880-EPW  Hollywood,  Hollywood  28,  California. 
NEED  EXTRA  CASH?  Get  it  selling  Blair's  unusual  line  of 
household  and  food  products.  Every  housewife  a  prospect. 
Products  sent  on   Free  Trial.   Write   Blair,   Dept.   185NE, 

Lynchburg,  Va. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Wanted  Items  from  your  News- 
paper for  Publishers.  Some  worth  up  to  $10.00  Each!  Write 
for  information.  Newscraft  Publishers,  4-PW,  Columbus  5 

Ohio.  [____[ 

MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog  (Plain  Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers;  $2.98  to  $22.98.  Crawford's. 

Dept.  28,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.  Experience  unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,  7150-B 

Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  Folders  to  New 
Mothersl  Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Allen  Com- 

pany,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

CONDUCT  SAMPLING  CAMPAIGN  famous  French  per- 
fumes. Half  price.  Free  samples,  details.  Lifset,  Schenectady 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3.  Ark. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling  chen- 
ille monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.Y. 
EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

TYPEWRITE  LOCAL  NAMES,  Addresses.  Excitingly  dlf- 
ferentl  Particulars  free.  Economy,  Rowley,  Mass. 
HOMEWORKERS   NEEDEDI   EVERYTHING   Furnished. 
Guaranteed  Pay.  Genmerco,   Box  142N,  Boston  24,  Mass. 
SEND    OUT    POSTCARDS.    Cash    daily.    Write    Box    14, 

Belmont,  Mass. 

FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

MONEY-MAKING  SENSATION1  100%  duPont  nylon 
stockings  wear  like  original  pre-war  nylons.  We  guarantee 
3  pairs  to  wear  3  months  or  replaced  Free.  Every  woman 
wants  them.  Write  for  Free  Kit.  American  Mills,  Dept.  461, 

Indianapolis. 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  UP  to  $5  hour  demon- 
strating  Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood. 
Free  Samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  Dept. 

P-55,  Glendale,  Calif. 

MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 
display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept.  N-5359,  Cincinnati 

25,  Ohio. 

HOME  WORKERS  WANTEDI  Self  employment  home  jobs 
listed.  $20-$50  weekly  possible.  No  experience  necessary. 
Maxwell,  2108  Payne,  Dept.  B5,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 
A  DRESS  SHOP  in  your  home.  No  investment.  Liberal  sales 
commissions.  Write  Bellecraft  Fashions,  111-YZ  Eighth  Ave., 

New  York. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
pay.  Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Dept. 

97,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY.  Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B. 
Dunbar,  Dept.  G5,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
WOMEN.  SEW  READY-Cut  Wrap-A-Round,  spare  time- 
profitable.  Dept.  P.  Hollywood  Mfg.  Co.,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 
WRITE  ENVELOPES  FOR  Advertisers!  Instruction  Manual 

$1.  Sterling,  Great  Neck  11,  New  York. 

FASCINATING  PILCL  WORK  at  Homel  No  Selling!  We 
pay  you  I  Truart,  Box  438,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

WOMEN!  SEW  READY-Cut  Neckties  At  Home.  No  Ex- 
perience  Necessary.  No  Selling.  No  Machine  Needed.  Details 
Free.  Neckwear  Supply,  P.O.  Box  2066-P,  Inglewood  4,  Calif. 
EARN  BIG  MONEY— Invisibly  Reweave  damaged  gar- 
ments  at  home!  Details  Free.  FaVicon,  8340  Prairie,  Chicago 
19,  Illinois. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet  free.   American   School,   Dept.   X574, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

PHYSICAL  THERAPY  OR  X-Ray  pays  big.  Learn  at  home. 
Free  Catalog.  National  Institute,  Desk  18,  159  East  Ontario, 

Chicago  11.  

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W, 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 
BORROW  UP  TO  $600  By  Mail.  Employed  men  and  women 
can  borrow  $50  to  $600  from  privacy  of  home.  Speedy,  easy 
and  entirely  confidential.  No  signers.  No  fees.  No  deductions. 
Money  Request  form  send  Free  in  plain  envelope.  State  age, 
occupation  and  amount  wanted.  Postal  Finance  Co.,  200 
Keeline  Bldg.,  Dept.  91J,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 


MONEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

WHOLESALEI  HUGE  SELECTION,  famous  brand  products. 
Sensational  discounts  I  Large  catalog.  Unusual  business  plans 
included.  Consolidated  Distributors, 21  -28  Lafayette,  Paterson 

15,  New  Jersey. 

GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid  Babbitt  $4165.00  in 
few  weeks.  Free  Book.  Washington  Mushroom  Ind.,  Dept. 

164,  2954  Admiral  Way.  Seattle,  Wash. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  day  up.  Hire  others- 
Samples,   details.   Studio  Girl-Hollywood,   Glendale,   Calif. 

Dept.  P-55b.  

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  circulars  for  adver- 
tisers.  Complete  instructions — 25c.  Siwaslian,  431 7-F  Gleane, 

Elmhurst  73,  N.Y.  

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORkI  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sionsl  Everything  Furnished!  Hirsch's,  1301-C  Hoe,  New 

York  City  59. 

STUFFING-MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how.    Dept.    G-5,    Education    Publishers,    4043    St.    Clair, 

Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  at  home,  preparing  mailings  for 

advertisers.  Tern-Let,  Box  946,  Muncie  2.  Indiana. 

$60  THOUSAND  POSSIBLE  mailing  envelopes.  Instructions 

$1.  Drawer  188P,  Ft.  Gibson,  Okla. 

EARN  MONEY  AT  Homel  Must  Have  good  Handwriting. 

Write  for  Details.  Atlas.  Box  188-A,  Melrose,  Mass. 

$35    WEEKLY    PREPARING    envelopes.    Instructions    $1. 

Refundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

START  OWN  BUSINESS.  Wholesale  catalog  50c.  Springers, 

1141-G  Broadway,  New  York  City. 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  cash  mailing  advertising  literature. 
Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 


SEND    OUT    POSTCARDS. 
Belmont    Mass. 


Cash    daily.    Write    Box    14, 


WORK  AT  HOME 


$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.    Easy.    Write    Studio 

Company.  Greenville  7,  Penna. 

OLD   COINS   &  MONEY   WANTED 

$40  00  FOR  CERTAIN  Lincoln  Cents.  Indianheads  $60.00. 
1901-S  Quarter  $30.00-$250.00.  Hundreds  of  others  $5.00- 
$3,000.00.  Complete  Illustrated  Catalogue  25c.  Worthycoin 

Corporation  (D-348),  Boston  8,  Mass.  

WE  PURCHASE  INUIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin. 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-EN,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 

ADDITIONAL  INCOME 
EARN  READY  CASH  doing  mailing  work.  No  experience 
needed.  F.  Wilson  Business  Service,  2875  Glendale  Blvd., 

Los  Angeles  39,  California. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-13,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

HELP  WANTED 

FOREIGN  U.S.  JOBS  to  $18,000.  Many  overseas  countries. 
Fare  Paid.  Skilled-Unskilled  Trades,  Office.  Stamped  self- 
addressed  envelope  brings  reply.  Job  Opportunities,  Waseca, 

11C.  Minn. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home  for  stores.  We  contact  stores. 

Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

SEW  READl-CUT  Kits.  $3  to  $10  Daily   possible.  Liebig 

Industries.  Beaver  Dam  4,  Wisconsin. 

MAIL  ORDER  CATALOG 

GENERAL  MERCHANDISE  CATALOG.  Buy  Wholesale  for 
self,  friends,  or  re-sell  at  profit;  make  extra  money  spare 
time!  No  Experience  Needed;  Large  Discounts  on  Famous 
Brand  Jewelry,  Appliances,  Silver,  Toys,  Giftware,  etc.  Send 
50c  for  catalog  deductible  from  first  order.  Shandling  Dis- 

tributors,  1300  Milwaukee,  Dept.  2,  Chicago  22. 

CARTOONING  &  COMMERCIAL  ART 
"HOW  TO  MAKE  Money  With  Simple  Cartoons"— A  book 
everyone  who  likes  to  draw  should  have.  It  is  free:  no  obliga- 
tion.   Simply    address    Cartoonists'    Exchange,    Dept.    685, 

Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

ADD  TO  FAMILY  income.  Unlimited  earnings.  Work  in  spare 
time  demonstrating  household  plastics  and  toys.  No  canvas- 
sing or   experience    necessary.  Halliday,   17-B    Pennington 

Ave.,  Passaic,  N.J. 

HEALTH  &   MEDICAL  SERVICES 

FREE  BOOK— PILLS,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  d  Minor 

Hospital,  Suite  C-513,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

BOOKS  &  PERIODICALS 

BIZARRE  BOOK  SERVICE  secures  rare  books.  Indicate 
titles,  subjects  desired.  Send  Stamped  envelope.  40-B  East 

23rd,  New  York  City  10. 

PERSONAL 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Discovery!  Free 
Trial  Offer   Write  Pixacol,  Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,  Ohio 


HA  R  ON  FACE? 


Suick  as  a  wink,  superfluous  hair  eliminated.  Com- 
etely  removes  all  hair  from  FACE,  arms  and  legs. 
Checks  future  growth.  Leaves  the  skin  petal-smooth. 


e  P>  i   i_  AT©  R 


Was  $5.00  —  Now  only  $1.10 

Like  magic,  Milady's  skin  becomes  adorable.  For  the 
finest  down  or  the  heaviest  growth.  Seems  miraculous, 
but  our  39  years  experience  proves  it  is  the  scientifically 
correct  way.  Odorless.  Safe.  Harmless.  Simple  to  apply. 
Superior  to  ordinary  hair  removers.  For  15  years  ZiP 
Epilatorwas  $5.00.  NOW  ONLYJl.10.  Same  superior 
formula,  same  size.  Good  stores  or  by  mail  $1.10  or 

LC.O.D.No  Fed.  tax.  Above  guaranteed,  money-back.  J 
kJORDEAU  INC.  Box  E-19  SOUTH  ORANGE,  N.  J. A 


P/ay  Right  Away! 

Now  it's  EASY  to  Ieartl  ANY  INSTRUMENT— won  if 
vou  don't  know  a  single  note  now.  No  boring  exercises.  You 
plas  delightful  pieces  RIGHT  AWAY— from  very  first  les- 
son! m-operlv— bv  note.  Simple  as  A-B-C.  You  make  nmaz- 
imr  progress— at  home,  in  spore  time,  without 
teacher.   Only  few  cents  per  lesson.  900,000 

STUDENTS! 

tprc  ROOK  Shows  how  easy  it  is1 
rntt  DWr\  to  learn  music  this  mod- 
ern way.  Write  for  it.  No  obligation :  no 
salesman     will     call     upon     vou.      U.S.     School  ] 


of      Music,      Studio     A205,      P 
N.   Y.   (57th   successful   year). 


85 


for  goodness  sake 


You  know  someone  who  uses  Tampax 
internal  sanitary  protection  —  of  course 
you  do! 

Ask  her  about  it.  Ask  her  all  the 
questions  in  the  whole,  wide  world.  Ask 
her  everything  that's  been  puzzling  you, 
keeping  you  back  from  using  the  really 
modern  form  of  protection. 

Ask  her  if  it  isn't  as  comfortable  as 
everyone  says.  Ask  her  if  she  doesn't 
find  Tampax  easy  to  insert,  change  and 
dispose  of.  Ask  her  about  absorbency. 
Ask  her  if  she  doesn't  honestly  feel 
freer  now  that  she's  using  Tampax.  Listen 
when  she  tells  you  what  it's  like  to  get 
rid  of  the  belt-pin-pad  harness,  never, 
ever  to  worry  again  about  chafing  or 
irritation. 

Tampax  is  willing  to  rest  its  entire 
case  on  what  other  women  tell  you.  If  you 
want  to  ask  your  doctor  —  fine!  Just 
remember:  Tampax  was  invented^  a  doc- 
tor. Millions  of  women  have  used  bil- 
lions of  Tampax!  Why  should  you  have 
any  doubts  about  it? ...  At  drug  or  no- 
tion counters  in  choice  of  3  absorbencies: 
Regular,  Super,  Junior.  Month's  supply 
goes  into  purse.  Tampax  Incorporated, 
Palmer,  Mass.  ^-^"\ 


86 


Accepted   for   Advertising 
by  the  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Association 


Party  Girl,  Home  Girl 


(Continued  from  page  43) 
yacht,  and  Martha  made  more  headlines. 

Well,  I  went  trotting  over  to  NBC's 
Center  Theater  one  afternoon  when 
Martha  was  in  rehearsal  for  her  show, 
and  sat  down  with  Ed  Begley  for  a  while. 
I'd  never  met  Ed  before,  and  my  first  im- 
pression was  that — if  this  was  the  man 
the  Ultra-Violent  Raye  had  chosen  to 
marry  after  thirteen  years  with  Nick 
Condos — she  had  certainly  changed  in 
more  ways  than  one. 

Martha  and  Nick  were  the  epitome  of  a 
show-business  couple — flamboyant,  nerv- 
ous, cynical  and  sentimental,  always  ready 
with  a  gag  and  a  buck,  fighting  and 
loving  and  working  their  hearts  out  in  the 
profession  they  couldn't  do  without. 

The  young  man  to  whom  I  had  just  been 
introduced  was  good-looking,  soft-voiced, 
with  the  rather  shy  manners  of  an  Ivy 
League  college  senior.  When  he  looked  at 
Martha,  who  was  up  front  haggling  with 
the  orchestra  director  over  an  arrange- 
ment, his  eyes  brightened  and  it  was  obvi- 
ous he  thought  she  was  wonderful. 

"We've  known  each  other  a  long  time, 
you  know,"  he  told  me,  "two  or  three 
years,  at  least.  And  then,  one  evening 
when  we  were  out  with  the  Eastmans — 
they're  Connecticut  real  estate  people 
and  old  friends — we  decided  we  had  to  be 
married  right  away.  You  know,  not  in 
three  days  or  even  the  next  afternoon,  but 
right  now,  before  we  could  change  our 
minds  or  get  bogged  down  in  red  tape  or 
new  shows." 

He  laughed,  remembering.  "The  East- 
mans were  all  for  it,  of  course,  so  the  next 
thing  we  knew,  we  were  at  the  airport 
chartering  a  couple  of  little  planes  to  fly 
us  to  Washington.  The  Eastmans  were 
under  the  impression  you  could  get  mar- 
ried in  Maryland  at  the  drop  of  a  hat,  like 
in  Las  Vegas,  without  bothering  with 
tests  and  days  of  waiting.  Well,  when  we 
got  to  Washington  and  drove  out  to  this 
place,  we  found  the  law  had  been 
changed. 

"But  there  was  no  stopping  us  now. 
Back  we  went  and  chartered  two  more 
planes,  flew  to  Arlington,  in  Virginia,  and 
this  time,  just  as  the  sun  came  up,  we 
finally  were  married.  .  .  ." 

Martha  joined  us,  and  the  three  of  us 
talked  of  the  new  house  they  had  bought 
since  their  marriage.  The  Eastmans  found 
that  for  them,  too,  an  English-style  place 
in  Connecticut,  near  Westport,  with  a  two- 
story  living  room  and  the  works.  One  of 
the  features  was  that  one  wall  was  all 
bookcases,  from  floor  to  ceiling.  So  tre- 
mendous, indeed,  that  you  had  to  have  a 
ladder  on  a  track  to  climb  to  the  top. 

Now  this  is  an  example  of  Martha's  es- 
sential honesty  in  her  approach  to  living. 
"When  you  have  books  in  your  house," 
she  said,  "they  ought  to  be  books  you've 
read  and  enjoyed,  not  sets  of  encyclopedias 
with  uncut  pages.  Ed  and  I  had  a  lot  of 
books  between  us,  but  not  nearly  enough 
to  fill  all  those  shelves.  I  guess  we  could 
have  gone  to  a  second-hand  bookshop 
and  ordered  a  truckload,  but  that  would 
have  been  cheating.  So  we  broke  the 
shelves  up  into  sections  and,  where  we 
didn't  have  enough  books,  we  put  other 
things — little  personal  things  we've  col- 
lected and  like." 

When  Martha  had  changed  her  costume 
for  the  dress  rehearsal — black  leotard 
(now  traditional  on  her  shows)  and  a 
white  mink  stole  with  tiny  shells  to  set 
it  off— we  went  across  the  alley  to  a  cafe 
for  coffee.  Ed  and  I  told  her  that  we'd 
been  talking  about  the  fantastic  press 
reaction  to  their  marriage. 


Martha  sipped  her  coffee  for  a  moment 
and  then  said,  "You  know,  I've  been 
wanting  to  talk  about  that.  Those  front 
pages  were  the  most  exciting  things  that 
ever  happened  to  me.  I'll  have  to  go  back 
a  little,  to  Hollywood  when  I  was  making 
my  last  picture  for  Paramount."  She  gave 
a  little,  bitter  laugh.  "My  last — you  can 
say  that  again!  Right  in  the  middle  of  the 
picture,  I  was  making  up  in  my  dressing 
room  one  day  when  I  heard  a  noise  at  the 
door,  turned,  and  watched  a  pink  envelope 
slide  onto  the  carpet. 

"I  opened  it  and  read  a  flat  statement 
from  the  front  office  that,  after  this  pic- 
ture, my  option  wouldn't  be  lifted.  I  was 
fired  without  even  an  interview  or  a 
personal  word." 

Martha  stared  hard  at  her  cup.  "And  I 
had  to  go  out  and  be  funny  for  the  rest  of 
the  picture.  I  thought  I  could  do  it,  until  I 
finally  realized  that  everyone  on  the  set 
knew  I'd  been  fired.  They  were  so  polite 
to  me,  so  formal — 

"Well,  when  the  picture  ended,  I  figured 
I'd  give  a  party  and  laugh  it  off.  I  could 
always  get  another  job,  and  I  wanted  my 
friends  to  know  I  didn't  care  so  much 
about  the  way  I'd  been  written  off." 

She  paused,  shrugged.  "I  gave  the  party, 
invited  everybody  I  knew.  Everybody.  I 
had  it  catered,  I  had  bars  and  bartenders 
and  waiters  all  over  the  place,  food  and 
liquor  enough  for  an  army.  And  nobody 
came.  Oh,  a  few  of  my  closest  friends 
were  there,  but  that  was  all.  That's  when 
I  promised  myself  that,  someday — if  it 
took  me  till  I  was  eighty — I'd  be  on  top 
again.  I'd  be  in  a  spot  where  if  I  gave  a 
party,  people  would  turn  up,  by  heaven!" 

I  said,  "So  you've  made  it." 

"But  I  didn't  realize  it,"  she  said,  "until 
Ed  and  I  got  off  the  plane  at  LaGuardia 
Field  and  there  were  all  those  reporters, 
and  I  saw  the  front  pages  of  the  Mirror 
and  News.  The  whole  page  of  each  paper 
devoted  to  Ed  and  me  and  our  marriage! 
Then  it  hit  me.  I've  had  a  few  real  thrills 
in  my  life.  Having  my  baby  was  one  of 
them.  This  was  another,  one  of  the  great- 
est. You  don't  know." 

"I  think  I  do,"  I  told  her. 

"No,  not  unless  you  ever  flopped  com- 
pletely, and  then  got  it  back  again.  You 
can't  realize  how  grateful  you  can  be  to 
the  public  for  taking  you  home  to  their 
hearts  even  though  you  failed  them  once." 

"Now  you  can  give  the  party,  and 
everybody  will  come." 

She  laughed,  a  genuine,  cheerful  laugh 
that  reflected  not  triumph  but  restored 
self-esteem.  "Now  I  don't  need  the  party. 
I'd  rather  go  over  to  Ed's  folks'  house  for 
Sunday  dinner.  .  .  ." 

There  was  more  to  Martha's  immediate 
story  that  I  had  wanted  to  ask  her  about, 
and  I  knew  exactly  where  to  go  to  get  it. 

I  found  Nick  Condos  in  his  suite  at  the 
Park  Sheraton,  surrounded  by  the  kind 
of  people  who  are  always  in  his  immediate 
background  and  who  used  to  be  in 
Martha's,  too — actors,  musicians,  agents, 
each  trying  to  top  the  other's  gags  or 
stories.  The  air  was  tense  with  energy  and 
loud  with  laughter. 

When  we  were  finally  alone,  however, 
Nick  suddenly  looked  tired  and  bit  the  tip 
off  a  new  cigar.  He  knew  what  I  wanted 
to  ask  him.  The  last  time  I'd  been  in  that 
suite  was  before  Martha's  marriage,  and 
Nick  had  said  quite  candidly  that  he  still 
loved  her,  that  thirteen  years  of  marriage 
— plus  having  a  child  together — could  not 
be  so  easily  forgotten,  and  that  he  hoped 
to  get  her  back. 

"I  know  Ed  and  like  him,"  he  said.  "He's 
a  fine  boy.  If  he  can  make  Martha  happy, 


that's  all  that  matters."  And,  for  the  rec- 
ord, that's  all  of  his  official  attitude  to- 
ward the  marriage.  He  gave  them  their 
first  supper  after  the  wedding,  and  is  still 
her  manager.  On  the  afternoon  that 
Martha  called  Nick  in  and  asked  him  to 
arrange  her  divorce  papers,  she  also  in- 
sisted that  he  draw  up  a  legal  contract  of 
management. 

"I  don't  need  papers  with  you,  baby," 
Nick  said,  but  she  was  adamant. 

"I  don't  get  it,"  he  said.  "With  these 
papers  you  get  rid  of  me,  and  with  these 
you  get  me  to  stick  around." 

"It's  the  way  I  want  it,"  she  said.  So 
that's  the  way  it  was. 

The  story  of  the  Bimini  episode,  so 
garbled  by  many  newspapers,  is  simply 
just  the  kind  of  thing  that  happens  oc- 
casionally to  great  stars  (as  Nick  explains 
it)  because  part  of  the  public  considers  a 
famous  public  personality  fair  game. 

Martha  and  Ed,  on  vacation  in  Miami, 
had  accepted  the  invitation  of  some  old 
friends  to  board  their  yacht  and  go  fishing 
off  Bimini,  in  the  Bahamas.  After  a  radiant 
day  at  sea,  they  put  into  Bimini  for  dinner 
and  afterwards  went  to  one  of  the  local 
night  clubs  where  a  famous  Calypso  band 
was  holding  forth. 

"If  you  know  Bimini,"  Nick  said,  "you 
remember  it's  just  a  street  that  peters  out 
at  either  end  and  has  a  small  town 
clustered  around  the  center.  Well,  this 
place  was  the  best  and  biggest  place  in 
town.  And  you  know  Martha,  too.  She 
went  for  the  Calypso  singing  in  a  big  way. 
Decided  to  buy  the  singers  each  a  beer 
and  take  it  over  to  them  herself.  Got  this 
big  tray  loaded  with  beers  at  the  bar,  and 
started  back  for  the  other  room. 

"And  there  in  the  doorway,  leaning  on 
the  bar  and  blocking  the  entrance  with 
his  back,  was  a  big  guy.  Martha  said,  'Say 
hey,  could  I  get  by,  please?'  The  guy 
ignored  her." 

I  said,  "Ignored  Martha?  Hoo  boy!" 

"So  help  me,  all  she  did  was  nudge  him 
with  the  tray,  easy  so  as  not  to  spill  the 
beer,  and  say,  'Look,  can  I  please  get  by?' 

"At  this,  the  man  straightened  up,  made 
a  short  speech  about  American  stars  who 
thought  they  could  push  people  around, 
and  then  he  hit  her  over  the  head  with  the 
bottle.  Fortunately,  it  broke,  because 
otherwise — 

"The  guy  was  standing  there  with  half 
the  broken  bottle  in  his  hand,"  Nick  said. 
"Her  friends  rushed  up  and  grabbed  him. 
That's  the  story.  And  of  course  we're 
suing — I've  got  affidavits  from  a  whole  lot 
of  people  that  that's  how  it  was.  The 
publicity  was  bad  and  Martha's  public 
has  a  right  to  know  the  truth." 

I  know  that  this  story  adds  up  to  a 
pretty  mixed  portrait  of  Martha  Raye  as 
she  is  today  (oops!  I  mean  as  at  the  time 
of  this  -writing).  It's  mixed  because  I  got 
it  directly  from  the  girl  herself  and  the 
two  men  closest  to  her.  And  all  three 
have  a  slightly  different  point  of  view 
about  the  girl. 

That's  not  hard  to  understand.  Martha 
is  many  girls  wrapped  up  in  one  small 
dynamo  of  a  body.  She  is  an  explosion  of 
talent  and  courage  and  heart,  and  some- 
times that  gets  her  into  trouble.  And  she 
is  a  sentimental  woman  (and  mother) 
who  truly  wants,  most  of  the  time,  a  quiet 
home  life  in  a  quiet  house  in  Connecticut, 
with  an  understanding  husband  and  a 
loving  daughter  to  come  visiting  from 
school  on  weekends. 

No  one  would  ever  try  to  predict 
Martha's  future — except  that,  from  every 
indication,  she's  headed  for  continued 
stardom.  But  everyone  surely  wishes  her 
a  great  big  share  of  the  best  in  the  world 
— because  she  has  earned  it  with  might 
and  main. 


ASK  YOUR 

DOCTOR 

OR 

DRUGGIST 


If  you  want  to 

BANISH  BAD  BREATH  AND 
BODY  ODOR  PROBLEMS  FOREVER 

-Try^ENNDS"9  Tablets  containing 
Darotol®-the  only  deodorant  that  gets  to  the 
source  of  both  problems  internally 


Neither  a  shower  nor  a  "**%fX£  ^S^SS^t 

or  mask  external  symptoms. 

<«»  contain  Darotol-ne  «  £»£  *£*££& 

of  Chlorophyll  ever  extracted  »°m J?1* ™  and  where  deodorant 
^^s"lcts  internal^  ^o^rss^n^   ^ 

sprays,  creams,  mouthwashes,  etc.,  c  fa  general  ^ 

from  foods,  liquors,  ^mokuag  ^  *oj     c  out  on  your 

checked  before  they  can  embarrass  you 
breath  or  through  your  pores. 

Safe,  pleasant -tasting  ;™»£ 
do  not  upset  the  stomach  Trial 
size  at  all  Drug  counters  only  49*. 
The  larger  sizes  are  even  more 
economical.  "Ennds"  are  also 
available  in  Canada. 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


■1 

WW     /■     Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
■    /  ■     inS  t0  do  something?  Write  today  lor  New 
I     /   ■      Booklet— "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
111      HOME    USE."    It    tells    about    Varicose 
W  M^  H      Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
■fe  ^fejH      used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  o( 
HuBK2     success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., 
Dept.  E-47,    Milwaukee  12,  Wisconsin) 


Why  be  blue 
when  you 


If  monthly  distress— pain,  cramps,  nervous  tension 
and  headache— get  you  down,  be  smart  and  try 

CHI-CHES-TERS 

If  you  don't  get  safe,  quick,  long-lasting  relief  we 
will  refund  your  money.  Fair  enough?  Get  Chi- 
Ches-Ters  and  compare  this  medically  proven,  pre- 
scription-like "wonder"  formula  with  any  other 
product  you  have  used.  In  doctors'  tests  9  out  of 
10  women  got  relief— often  with  the  first  dose.  Why 
not  you?  Feel  gay  every  day  with  Chi-Ches-Ters. 
Purse  Pak  50«(;  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and  $2.25. 
If  your  druggist  hasn't  any,  ask  him  to  get  some 
for  you— or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 
Free  Illustrated  Booklet  of  Intimate  Facts.  Write 
Chichester  Chemical  Co.,  Dept.  ITS  Phila.  46,  Pa. 


WANTED 

Men  &  Women  Everywhere  who  have  a  story 
to  tell.  No  writing  experience  necessary — just 
use  your  own  words.  Vast  TV  market  crying 
ior  new  story  situations.  Yours  can  net  you 
$500  or  more.  Get  the  Facts. 

TV  WRITERS  GUILD 

2875C  Glendale  Blvd.,   Los  Angeles  39,  Calif. 


Thrilling  New  Massage  Cream 
Contains  PC-11.  Acts  Instantly  to 

PRY  UP  SKIN 
BLEMISHES 

From  Both  Oily  Skin  and 
External  Causes! 

Have  you  tried  in  vain  to  get  rid 
of  oily  pimples,  "hickies,"  other 
S  externally  caused  skin  blemishes  ? 
■i\V  ^  >;  1  Well,  you  never  had  PC- 11  be- 
■&  k  mm*Ls'  \  fore!  That's  POMPEIAN'S  name 
assa  1  assssm  %  for  Hexachlorophene.  Wonder- 
ful discovery  of  science  helps  dry  up  such  skin 
blemishes!  Acts  instantly  to  clean  out  dirt,  helps 
remove  blackheads  like  magic!  Goes  on  face  pink — 
rolls  off  muddy  gray ! 

GENEROUS  TRIAL  TUBE— 10  CENTS! 
Send  name,  address   and    10  cents  to  POMPEIAN 
CORP.,  Dept.   P-5,  Baltimore  24,  Md.  (Offer  good 
only  in  U.S.)  Or  get  Pompeian  Mas- 
Sage  Cream  at  any  drug  store. 


POMPEIAN 

MASSAGE    CREAM 


at  your  fingertips . . . 


when  you  have  an 


o#>; 


MASSAGETT 


Treat  yourself  to  an  Oster  massage.  Keep 
y  our  complexion  glowing.  Look  vibrant  and 
lovely.  Just  slip  an  Oster  MASSAGETT 
over  your  hand  and  you're  ready  for  a 
soothing  facial,  scalp,  and  body  massage. 
It's  styled  in  a  beautiful  ivory-colored 
housing.  Packed  in  simulated  red  alligator 
leather  case  with  fully  illustrated  instruc- 
tion booklet. 


MANUFACTURING  CO. 
Milwaukee  17,  Wit. 


SEND    FOR  VALUABLE    BOOKLET 


John  Oster  Manufacturing  Co. 
Dept.  495,  Milwaukee  17,  Wisconsin 

Please  send  me,  without  obligation,  your  com- 
pletely illustrated  instruction  booklet  on  the 
Oster  MASSAGETT,  for  which  I   enclose  10c\ 


Nome_ 


Addrett- 
City 


_Zone_ 


Slate. 


Fibber  and  Molly — and  Family 


(Continued  from  page  75) 
musical  bells,  a  piano,  and  a  musical  saw, 
and  all  sang  harmony) .  Though  they  were 
constantly  on  the  road,  playing  split  weeks 
of  two-  and  three-day  stands,  they  never 
made  enough  money  to  have  any  in  their 
pockets — ten  dollars  earned  was  a  big 
night. 

But,  during  these  times,  Jim  and  Marian 
never  lost  their  sense  of  humor.  They've 
always  bragged  that — of  all  the  world's 
vaudeville  acts — theirs  was  the  only  one 
that  never  played  the  Palace.  Says  Jim:  "If 
all  the  vaudevillians  who  claimed  to  have 
played  there  really  did,  the  Palace  would 
have  been  full  of  performers  every  night!" 

Because  vaudeville  life  to  them  had  al- 
ways been  a  struggle,  they  felt  there  was 
no  security  traveling  on  the  road.  That 
is  why  security  for  their  family  and  its 
attendant  happiness  has  always  been  more 
important  to  them  than  star  billing.  It 
was  their  dream  to  have  a  home. 

Marian  well  remembers  one  Christmas 
early  in  the  vaudeville  career  which  gave 
them  a  taste  of  this  family  closeness  they 
so  desired.  She  says,  "It  was  the  first  time 
in  our  marriage  that,  as  a  family,  we  were 
all  together  with  our  children.  We  remem- 
ber it  as  our  1922  Christmas  in  Peoria. 
There  wasn't  much  money.  I  think  we  only 
bought  baby  clothes  for  Katherine — young 
Jim  wasn't  born  yet — but  what  we  lacked 
in  money,  we  made  up  in  love." 

Thirteen  years  of  vaudeville  separated 
Jim  and  Marian  from  their  ever-present 
dream  of  family  security.  Then  in  April, 
1935,  they  were  invited  to  New  York  for 
their  first  radio  broadcast  of  Fibber  McGee 
And  Molly.  Jim  played  his  Fibber  char- 
acter more  broadly  than  now — he  was 
then    a    bucolic   hayseed    who    more   than 


lived  up  to  the  name,  "Fibber."  Marian 
played  Molly  more  Irish — especially  when 
angry  with  Fibber. 

At  the  rehearsal,  they  overheard  some 
radio  people  discussing  their  first  show: 
"Who'd  want  to  listen  to  those  corny 
characters,"  they  were  saying.  "It  will 
never  go."  Jim's  and  Marian's  hearts 
sank.  They  were  fearful  that  this  first  great 
chance  at  security — the  opportunity  that 
radio  could  give  them  to  be  able  to  stay 
home  with  their  family — would  be  lost. 

But  they  needn't  have  worried,  for  Fib- 
ber McGee  And  Molly  was  a  success.  As 
time  went  on,  their  show  gradually  grew 
into  the  highest-rated  property  on  radio. 
But  the  highest  rating  was  secondary  to 
the  fact  that  Jim  and  Marian  were  now 
together  with  their  children,  Katherine 
and  Jim,  Jr.,  in  a  home. 

Christmas,  1935,  their  first  in  radio,  was 
another  which  they  will  never  forget. 
"That,"  says  Marian,  "was  the  Christmas 
we  not  only  'were  together  with  our  two 
families,  but  we  were  also  able  to  afford 
presents  for  everybody!" 

Today,  Jim  and  Marian  Jordan  are  do- 
ing a  fifteen-minute,  five-times-a-week 
radio  show.  Their  new  schedule  actually 
takes  less  time  than  their  previous  one-a- 
week,  half-hour  live  show:  They  work 
Mondays,  Tuesdays,  and  an  occasional 
Wednesday  afternoon,  taping  the  whole 
week's  work.  The  remainder  of  their  time 
belongs  to  their  family — now  numbering 
six  grandchildren! 

When  one  knows  about  their  early 
struggles  on  the  vaudeville  road,  it  is  easy 
to  understand  Jim's  and  Marian's  gratitude 
to  radio — for,  today,  it  is  still  giving  them 
the  security  and  family  happiness  that,  to 
them,  has  always  come  first. 


Blessing  in  Disguise 


(Continued  from  page  50) 
Since  I  loved  to  play  the  piano  I  jumped 
at  every  invitation.  If  I  had  an  un- 
filled evening  and  a  concert  was  offered,  I 
couldn't  say  no.  Once,  I  played  nineteen 
concerts   in  twenty-three   days! 

"The  second  mistake  I  made,"  says  Lee, 
"was  thinking  that:  Since  I  did  it  before,  I 
could  do  it  again.  It  seemed  so  easy — even 
to  me — to  supply  the  demands  I  put  on 
myself,  that  I  didn't  realize  what  it  was 
doing  to  me  inside." 

Then,  suddenly,  the  pressure  caught  up 
with  Lee:  "I  found  I  was  too  nervous  be- 
fore a  concert  to  eat,"  he  says.  "I  went 
without  food  all  day  long.  Then,  after  the 
concert,  when  I  was  calmed,  I  grew  rav- 
enous! Naturally,  I  ate  twice  my  normal 
meal — and  then  went  straight  to  bed.  And 
I  wondered  why,  during  each  tour,  I  put 
on  twenty  pounds!" 

It  was  because  of  the  added  weight  that 
Lee  first  went  to  the  doctor.  -"The  weight 
took  too  much  of  my  energy,"  he  says, 
"and  I  went  for  a  diet.  But  the  doctor 
wouldn't  let  me  go  without  a  full  test.  It 
was  after  the  electrocardiogram  that  he 
gave  me  the  news. 

"But  I  wouldn't  believe  it.  I  figured  the 
abnormal  EKG  was  just  the  result  of  the 
tour — that  it  would  go  away  in  a  few 
days.  But,  when  I  came  back  for  a  second 
EKG,  it  had  gotten  worse.  I  still  didn't 
want  to  believe  it.  Then  the  doctor  asked 
me,  'Do  you  want  to  quit  now  for  a  short 
while  and  take  care  of  yourself,  or  do  you 
want  to  quit  for  the  rest  of  your  life?' 
That's  when  I  got  scared." 

So  Lee  went  to  bed,  staying  there  for 
nearly  four  weeks:  "The  doctor  let  me  get 
up  for  Christmas,"  says  Lee,  with  a  smile. 


But  Lee's  heart  strain  proved  itself  a 
blessing:  For  one  thing,  Lee  learned  again 
how  many  thousands  of  loyal  fans  and 
friends  he  has.  The  mail  came  to  him  from 
every  "corner  of  the  country.  One  letter 
came  from  a  San  Francisco  priest,  a  young 
man  who  had  come  by  Lee's  house  when 
newly  ordained.  "We  had  a  picture  taken 
together,"  says  Lee,  "and  when  he  read 
in  the  paper  that  I  was  ill  he  took  it  on 
himself  to  get  an  Apostolic  Blessing  for 
me  from  the  Pope.  This  came  during  the 
first  part  of  my  illness,  when  I  was  very 
depressed.  When  it  arrived  I  felt  a  lift," 
says  Lee,  "and  my  depression  left  me." 

Here  is  the  copy  of  the  blessing:  "Most 
Holy  Father,  Liberace,  humbly  prostrate 
at  the  feet  of  Your  Holiness,  begs  the 
Apostolic  Blessing,  and  a  plenary  indul- 
gence to  be  gained  at  the  hour  of  death 
on  condition  that  being  truly  sorry  for  his 
sins,  but  unable  to  confess  them  and  to 
receive  the  Holy  Viaticum,  he  shall  at  least 
invoke  with  his  lips  or  heart  the  Holy 
Name  of  Jesus." 

With  the  Vatican  seal,  it  was  signed  by 
the  Pope  and  dated  November  27,  1954. 

"As  soon  as  I  saw  it,"  says  Lee,  "I  felt 
a  lift.  My  depression  left  me.  It  showed 
again  that  there  were  people  pulling  for 
me. 

"So  my  recent  siege,"  says  Lee,  "taught 
me  that  an  illness  can  be  a  blessing  in  dis- 
guise. It  gave  me  time  to  think,  to  look 
back  on  my  life,  and  also,  to  look  ahead 
to  see  where  I  was  going.  As  a  result,  I 
have  been  surprised  to  find  how  much 
living  I  can  get  into  a  24-hour  day — by 
slowing  down.  I'm  glad  it  happened — to 
me,  this  period  of  illness  was  my  bless- 
ing in  disguise." 


The  Ed  Sullivan  Story 


(Continued  from  ■page  48) 
always  entertaining,  though  forever 
touched  with  dignity.  When  it  celebrates 
its  seventh  anniversary  this  June,  Toast 
will  have  presented  more  than  nine  thou- 
sand performers  comprising  some  three 
thousand  acts — quite  a  record  for  the  show 
and  for  Ed,  the  man  who  selects  the  acts, 
edits  the  material,  travels  endlessly  on 
talent  hunts,  writes  the  scripts  and  creates 
the  new  ideas.  It  all  takes  more  than 
a  touch  of  genius — the  kind  worthy  of  such 
other  great  showmen  as  Ziegfeld  and  Bar- 
num.  Ed's  got  it.  But  he  went  through 
more  than  half  of  his  life  not  knowing  it. 
Until  he  was  thirty,  if  anyone  had  sug- 
gested that  he  entertain,  Ed  would  have 
laughed  them  off — which  is  exactly  what 
he  did,  in  the  spring  of  1933,  when  he  was 
asked  to  head  a  show  at  Broadway's  Para- 
mount Theater.  That  particular  event  was 
to  be  the  turning  point  in  his  life,  though, 
at  that  particular  moment,  all  of  Ed's  ex- 
perience had  been  as  a  newspaperman. 

Ed  was  born  in  Manhattan  in  1903,  and 
raised  in  Port  Chester,  a  suburb  of  the  big 
city.  As  a  youngster,  Ed  won  twelve  let- 
ters in  school  sports — plus  good  grades — 
then  graduated  to  the  Port  Chester  Daily 
Item  as  sports,  police  and  obituary  editor 
at  ten  dollars  a  week.  At  eighteen,  he 
moved  into  the  big  city  as  a  sports  writer. 
Twelve  years  later,  he  seemed  a  more 
likely  candidate  for  Big  Story  than  Toast 
Of  The  Town,  when  the  managing  editor 
of  the  old  Graphic  assigned  Ed  to  write 
a   Broadway   column. 

"It  was  the  first  year  I  was  doing  the 
Broadway  column  that  I  got  a  call  from 
Boris  Morris,  who  was  manager  and  direc- 
tor of  the  Paramount  Theater.  He  offered 
me  $1500  to  come  into  the  theater  for  a 
week  and  head  a  vaudeville  show.  I  gave 
him  a  flat  no  and  hung  up. 

"I  had  organized  some  benefits  around 
town,  but  had  no  crazy  idea  about  being 
an  emcee,"  Ed  recalls.  "I  tried  to  explain 
to  Boris  it  had  nothing  to  do  with  money. ' 
But  Boris  kept  calling  back  every  half- 
hour  and  raising  the  ante.  He  also  ex- 
plained to  Ed  that  the  movie  coming  in 
was  a  weak  one,  and  he  thought  Ed  would 
draw  crowds  to  make  up  for  it.  Ed  just 
couldn't  see  it.  "By  noon,  his  offer  for  one 
week's  work  was  $3,250.  And,  by  that  time, 
I  figured  maybe  I  could  do  it  for  the 
money,  after  all.    So  I  said  maybe." 

Before  Ed  accepted,  he  went  into  con- 
ference with  Gary  Cooper,  who  was  mak- 
ing a  personal  appearance  at  the  Para- 
mount. "Coop  told  me  to  go  ahead.  He 
said  there  was  nothing  to  it.  All  you  had 
to  do  was  walk  onto  the  stage  and  mumble 
a  little.  It  didn't  occur  to  me  at  the 
moment  that  all  Gary  Cooper  had  to  do 
was  put  on  a  cowboy  outfit — and  smile — to 
make  the  audience  swoon." 

So  Ed  agreed  to  go  on,  and  immediately 
broke  into  a  sweat.  What  was  he  going  to 
do  and  how  was  he  going  to  do  it?  As  his 
own  specialty,  he  decided  to  show  some 
old  movies  which  he  had  already  begun 
to  collect.  He  prepared  a  kind  of  comedy 
travelogue  of  New  York.  He  invited 
friends  to  drop  around — which  meant  there 
would  be  surprise  guest  stars  at  most  of 
the  shows.  He  was  organized,  but  so 
scared  that  he  stayed  up  all  of  the  night 
before  he  was  to  open,  with  comedians 
Block  and  Sully  rehearsing  him. 

"I  thought  I'd  get  at  least  one  break. 
The  first  stage  show  went  on  before  noon, 
when  you'd  figure  they  would  have  to  pay 
people  to  come  in,  so  I  hoped  the  theater 
would  be  practically  empty  and  give  me  a 
chance  to  try  the  act  out." 

But     the     Paramount     Theater     which 


STOP  PAIN  INSTANTLY 

COMBAT  INFECTION 
PROMOTE  HEALING 

^  WITH  STAINLESS 

Campho-Phen/oue 


WHEN  USED  ON 


PIMPLES-ACNE 

CAMPHO-PHENIQUE  HELPS  PREVENT 
THEIR  SPREAD  AND  RE-INFECTION. 

It's  wonderful,  too,  for  fever  blisters,  cold  sores, 
gum  boils,  cuts  and  scratches,  minor  burns  caused 
by  book  matches,  hot  cooking  utensils,  hot  water 
or  steam.  Campho-Phenique  relieves  itching  of 
insect  bites,  poison  ivy,  etc.  Just  apply  Campho- 
Phenique  next  time  and  see  how  fast  this  pain- 
relieving  antiseptic  goes  to  work.  And  it  doesn't 
stain  the  skin!  Get  a  bottle  today. 


'How 


MAKE  MONEY  with1 
Simple  CARTOONS: 


A  book  everyone  who  Ukea  to  draw 
should  have.  It  is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 


Cartoonists1 

Dept.  595 


FREE 
BOOK 


EXCHANGE 
Pleasant  Hill.  Ohio 


Thousands 

of  Pregnant 

Women  .  .  . 


Thousands  find  relief  and 
comfort  with  MOTHER'S 
FRIEND  .  .  .  The  famous, 
mild,  skin  lubricant  that 
soothes  tight,  dry  skin  and 
eases  numbing,  tingling 
muscles  in  back  and  legs. 
Enjoy  this  refreshing  skin 
conditioner.  i^yifes. 

$1.25  at  all 

Drug  Stores 


FREE!  TIPS  TO  EXPECTANT  MOTHERS 
Valuable  Booklet  with  Every   Bottle  of 

Mothers  Friend 


TOKEN   PHOTOS 


Luxurious,  satin  finish  Wallet 
Size...  VU  x3'/>...  STUDIO  Quality 
$*f    MONEY  BACK 
for      |      GUARANTEE 

GIVE  TO  FRIENDS,  CLASSMATES,  RELATIVES.   USE 
FOX  COLLEGE,  EMPLOYMENT,  PASSPORT  APPLI- 
CATIONS.  SEND  MONET  AND  PHOTO  TO 

WALLET  PHOTOS,  BOX    017-55         HILLSIDE, 


24-1 


LAST  CHANCE 
to  save  cash  on 
TV  Radio  Mirror! 

READ  THIS  AND  MAIL  ORDER 
WITHOUT  DELAY ! 


Imagine!  You'll  receive  16  ex- 
citing months  of  TV  Radio  Mir- 
ror for  only  $3.  if  you  act  now. 
That  means  you  save  $1  under 
the  regular  newsstand  price.  We 
offer  you  this  extraordinary  value 
because  we  want  you  as  a  steady 
subscriber.  We  know  you'll  enjoy 
all  the  thrills  and  excitement 
coming  your  way  in  future  issues. 
So  don't  delay!  We  may  nevtr 
again  be  able  to  offer  you  such 
a  tremendous  bargain  due  to  the 
rising  costs  of  printing,  paper 
and  postage.  Simply  send  your 
name  and  address  along  with  $3 
to  TV  Radio  Mirror  and  your 
bargain  subscription  will  be  en- 
tered immediately.  Now  is  the 
best  time  to  subscribe.  (Offer 
good  in  U.S.A.  only.)  TV  Radio 
Mirror.  205  East  42nd  Street, 
New   York   17,    New   York. 


89 


5 DRESSES 

For 

4 

NOW  READY!   GORGEOUS,  SMART, 
MODERN   STYLE  DRESSES  FOR  ALL 

g  mm       occasions! 


90 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as- 
sortment of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety  of 
luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons,  cot- 
tons, gabardines,  woolens,  silks, 
etc.  Expensive  dresses — original 
value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cards!  S  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON! 

■     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.  802  I 

lOne  of  the  oldest  and  largest  mail  order  houses  of  ill  kind) 
I     103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y. 

[     Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below 

•  with    Free   Button   Cards.    Enclosed    find    $1    de- 
posit,   balance   C.O.D.    plus    postage.    Money    re- 
turned if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and 
foreign  orders  accepted. 
Circle  Size: 

Girl's  Sizes  7.  8,  10.  12,  14  are  S  for  $2.75 
Junior  Miss  Sizes  9.  11,  13,  IS  are  S  for  $3.75 

'Sizes  12,  14,  16,  18,20,38,40.42,44,  5  for  $3.75 
I  Sizes  14!/,.  1 6 'A.  18  '/, ,  20'/,.  22'/,,  24  %.S  for  $3. 75  I 
I     Extra  Large  Sizes  46,  48,  50,  52  are  5  for  $4.75 
I      D  Check    here   to   save   C.O.D.    fee.   Send    full 

amount  with  2  50  postage. 
,  D  Please   send  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY 

J     Nome 

•  Address 

I 


|__City 


City  Zone        State 


normally  seats  up  to  3,650  people,  looked 
as  if  it  were  holding  3,651.  "It  looked  like 
an  indoor  colosseum.  So  big,  and  so  many 
people!  I  nearly  dropped  dead — I  tried 
hard  enough,  but  couldn't.  I  was  so  ner- 
vous that  I  didn't  eat  that  week." 

At  the  end  of  the  week,  Ed  collected  his 
$3,500,  gave  more  than  half  of  it  to  a  ca- 
terer (who  had  been  running  a  continuous 
buffet  backstage  for  Ed's  friends),  went 
back  to  his  apartment,  and  collapsed  in 
relief.  Unknowingly,  however,  he  had 
been  inoculated.  For,  when  he  was  asked 
to  do  a  stage  show  at  another  theater  a 
couple  of  months  later,  he  accepted.  Short- 
ly afterwards,  he  organized  his  "Dawn 
Patrol"  stage  troupe  which  toured  the 
nation  for  years.  He  even  had  his  own 
radio  show  on  CBS. 

On  that  CBS  show,  Jack  Benny  made  his 
broadcasting  debut,  more  than  twenty 
years  ago.  Others  who  rode  the  kilocycles 
for  the  first  time,  with  Ed,  were  Jack  Pearl, 
Jimmy  Durante,  Gertrude  Niesen,  Jack 
Haley,  Frances  Langford.  It  was  no  acci- 
dent then.  It  is  no  accident  now  that 
Vallee,  Hope,  Bogart  and  Laughton,  Rita, 
Lana  and  Hedy  have  made  their  TV  debuts 
on  Ed's  present  show. 

The  reason  Ed  has  more  "firsts"  than 
anyone  else  on  TV  is  quite  simple.  The 
stars  trust  his  great  talent  as  a  showman. 
And  his  judgment  of  material  is  always 
excellent.  Ed  will,  for  example,  watch 
an  act  that  runs  thirty  or  forty  minutes — 
then  pick  three  minutes  for  the  TV  show. 
He  has  an  unerring  instinct  for  the  best. 
It's  an  instinct  which  his  daughter  Betty 
either  inherited  or  acquired.  In  her  pre- 
marital days,  she  served  as  an  unofficial 
scout  for  Ed. 

Now  Betty  lives  in  Washington,  D.C., 
with  her  husband  and  infant  son.  "She'll 
write  about  shows  that  open  in  Washington 
before  moving  into  Broadway.  Her  predic- 
tions of  success  or  failure,  and  her  analyses, 
always  prove  to  be  right." 

Sylvia,  Ed's  wife,  doesn't  have  that  same 
instinct,  but  she  doesn't  need  it.  She's  got 
Ed  and,  with  Ed,  the  fun  and  work  of  the 
business.  Some  of  their  nights  each 
week  are  spent  at  first-night  openings. 
But,  generally  speaking,  Ed  has  cut  out 
the  late  night-club  routine.  Occasionally, 
he  will  dash  over  to  a  club,  catch  a  floor 
show — or  usually  just  one  act  in  the  show 
— and  be  home  by  midnight.  Ed  is  neither 
a  drinking  nor  a  party  man,  contrary  to 
what  people  may  expect  of  a  Broadway 
columnist.  The  Sullivans  like  to  visit  with 
friends,  read  and  watch  TV. 

He,  Sylvia  and  "Boje,"  his  gray  minia- 
ture French  poodle,  have  had  a  suite  of 
rooms  in  a  Park  Avenue  hotel  for  the  past 
ten  years.  Ed  breakfasts  in  a  tiny  kitchen, 
where  they  prepare  coffee  and  oatmeal. 
Then  Ed  walks  into  the  living  room  about 
ten  and  gets  to  work  on  the  phone  and 
the  typewriter.  He  edits,  interviews,  au- 
ditions. A  connecting  door  leads  to  the 
working  office  and  several  desks  and 
file  cabinets,  and  hundreds  of  autographed 
pictures  of  celebrities,  and  Ed's  office  as- 
sistants, Carmine  Santullo  and  Jean  Bom- 
bard. Ed's  normal  working  day  is  ab- 
normal— from  ten  A.M.  until  two  P.M.  Add 
to  this  Manhattan  schedule  his  talent  hunts 
abroad — he's  made  about  forty  trips  in  the 
past  six  years. 

Last  year,  he  bought  himself  a  farm, 
after  twenty-four  years  of  living  in  a  hotel 
apartment.  He  bought  one  hundred  and 
thirty  acres  of  land,  with  a  handsome  home, 
fifty  head  of  cattle,  and  a  tenant  farmer. 
As  Ed  says,  "It's  quite  a  sight  to  see  Boje, 
with  his  French  crewcut,  investigating 
cows  after  being  limited  to  fire  hydrants 
on  Park  Avenue." 

Unfortunately,  even  in  a  Lincoln  Capri, 
it  takes  an  hour  and  forty-five  minutes  to 
get  to  the  farm,  and  it's  difficult  to  see  just 
where    Ed    will    get    much    time    for    the 


farm,  considering  how  much  of  the  re- 
sponsibility he  takes  on  at  the  show.  A 
long  time  ago,  he  was  asked  why  he  did 
everything  himself.  "The  way  I  see  it  is 
that  I'm  the  fall  guy  if  the  show  doesn't 
click,"  he  explained,  "so  I  may  as  well 
have  the  pleasure  of  digging  my  own 
grave." 

Ed  isn't  afraid  of  traditions,  critics,  tem- 
perament. He  began  changing  the  order 
of  things  long  before  television.  When  he 
plunged  into  vaudeville  with  his  "Dawn 
Patrol,"  he  decided  to  revolutionize  the 
business  a  bit.  One  of  vaudeville's  ruts, 
he  decided,  was  the  format.  Whether  you 
were  watching  a  stage  show  in  Peoria  or 
Kalamazoo,  it  would  have  the  same  pro- 
gram. Open  slow  with  a  dog  act,  wheeze 
a  second  breath  with  an  indifferent  boy- 
girl-number — with  everything  good  saved 
for  last.  Ed  had  a  different  theory.  Start 
off  with  something  exciting,  and  it  would 
brighten  up  the  whole  show. 

Ed  prevailed,  and  broke  a  tradition  that 
had  been  born  with  vaudeville.  Today, 
he's  still  doing  things  they  tell  him  he 
can't  or  shouldn't  do.  This  winter  he 
scheduled  an  excerpt  from  the  Menotti 
opera,  "The  Saint  of  Bleecker  Street."  Ed 
was  warned  that  it  was  longhair,  high- 
brow. Ed  went  ahead,  put  on  the  opera, 
and  was  stormed  afterwards  with  enthus- 
iastic calls  and  letters  and  wires. 

"That's  one  of  the  thrills,  to  discover 
over  and  over  that  your  faith  in  the  public's 
good  taste  is  justified,"  he  says. 

Ed  is  very  proud  of  the  artists  who  have 
performed  on  Toast  Of  The  Town.  They 
are,  literally,  the  very  toast  of  the  world: 
Alfred  Lunt,  Marian  Anderson,  Gloria 
Swanson,  Charles  Laughton,  Lauritz  Mel- 
chior,  the  late  Bill  Robinson,  Yehudi  Men- 
uhin,  Jose  Greco,  Moira  Shearer,  Cornelia 
Otis  Skinner,  Raymond  Massey,  Ethel 
Waters,  Helen  Hayes,  and  Beatrice  Lillie. 
There  are  dozens  more.  But,  for  Ed,  the 
Charles  Laughton  appearance  rates  as 
one  of  the  most  memorable  and  thrilling. 
This  has  been  reported  before — but  never 
before  with  the  verbatim  dialogue  which 
led  to  the  wonderful  performance. 

Laughton  phoned  to  ask  about  his 
scheduled  appearance  on  Toast.  Mr. 
Laughton's  voice  was  laced  with  sarcasm 
suggesting  that,  perhaps,  he  would  be 
asked  to  do  an  imitation  of  Frankie  Laine 
or  Howdy  Doody. 

"Now,  Ed,  you  wouldn't  let  me  get  up 
there  and  just  read  from  a  book — now 
would  you?" 

"Why  not?" 

"But  certainly  not  the  Bible.  You 
wouldn't  approve  of  Bible  readings  on  a 
variety  show?" 

"Why  not?"  Ed  asked.  "After  all,  it  is 
a  Sunday  show." 

Mr.  Laughton,  more  stunned  than 
startled,  nevertheless  had  the  stamina  to 
continue,  with  still  a  trace  of  sarcasm: 
"And  could  I  write  in  my  own  camera  di- 
rections?" 

"Of  course,"  Ed  said.  "You  know  more 
about  camera  work  than  we  do." 

Charles  Laughton  appeared  on  the  show, 
on  his  own  terms,  and  he  was  superb.  A 
producer,  Paul  Gregory,  saw  the  show  and 
it  started  a  chain  of  events  in  Mr.  Laugh- 
ton's  career  which  included  a  new  TV 
series,  a  tour  of  the  country  with  "Don 
Juan  in  Hell,"  "John  Brown's  Body,"  cul- 
minating in  the  smash  production  of  "The 
Caine  Mutiny   Court  Martial." 

Ed  is  a  man  of  daring  and  imagination. 
As  quiet  and  good-natured  as  he  appears, 
he  can  take  a  stand — and  it  can  be  a  stand 
of  importance. 

January  of  this  year,  The  Chicago  De- 
fender, a  Negro-edited  newspaper,  chose 
Ed  as  one  of  eleven  citizens,  including 
President  Eisenhower,  to  be  nationally 
honored.  The  award  Ed  received  is  one 
of  the  most  highly  prized  in  the  field  of 


race  relations  because  of  the  prestige  of 
the  Chicago  newspaper  among  Negroes. 
The  newspaper  did  not  mention  any  spe- 
cific reason  for  the  award,  and  it  is  doubt- 
ful that  the  editors  know  of  a  story  which 
goes  back  to  1948  when  Toast  first  went  on 
the  air. 

Radio  had  earned  for  itself,  at  best,  a 
timid  reputation  for  being  non-discrimina- 
tory. You  could  strain  yourself  deaf  try- 
ing to  find  such  great  Negro  entertainers 
as  Billy  Eckstine,  Duke  Ellington,  Ella 
Fitzgerald,  Fats  Waller  and  Marian  Ander- 
son on  a  live  network  program.  Some 
producers  entering  TV  tended  to  follow 
the  same  policy.    But  not  Ed. 

His  sponsor  of  that  period  manufac- 
tured items  which  were  popular-priced  in 
tens  of  thousands  of  stores.  The  sponsor 
had  called  a  meeting  of  his  distributors,  in 
New  York,  and  Ed  addressed  these  people. 

In  the  course  of  giving  the  distributors 
an  idea  of  the  kind  of  shows  he  planned 
to  do,  Ed  mentioned  that  he  would  be  fea- 
turing great  Negro  entertainers  as  well  as 
white.  Several  distributors  were  afraid  it 
would  antagonize  customers. 

Ed  disagreed  with  them.  They  argued, 
but  Ed  had  his  way,  as  usual.  Since  then, 
for  the  past  seven  years,  he  has  been  abid- 
ing by  the  spirit  and  letter  of  the  Con- 
stitution, disregarding  race,  creed  and  color 
when  it  comes  to  selecting  acts. 

"I  respect  people,"  Ed  says.  "I  have  faith 
in  their  intelligence  and  decency  and  sense 
of  fair  play." 

XI  e  doesn't  claim  originality  on  this 
thought.  "I  like  to  quote  George  Arliss 
on  this  subject,"  he  says.  "In  his  biography 
he  wrote  in  asides  to  young  actors,  and 
one  of  them  went  like  this:  'Sometimes,  if 
you  tour  the  country  as  Mrs.  Arliss  and  I 
have,  you'll  find  yourself  in  a  small  town, 
perhaps  in  the  lobby  of  a  hotel  or  the  local 
drugstore.  The  townspeople  will  intro- 
duce themselves  to  you  and,  judging  from 
their  embarrassed  attempts  at  conversation, 
you  may  get  the  impression  the  town  is 
inhabited  by  morons.  I  urge  you  not  to  be 
deceived,  because,  when  assembled  under 
the  roof  of  one  theater,  you'll  find  their 
mass  instinct  is  perilously  close  to  intel- 
ligence.' " 

Ed  recalls  playing  golf  with  Tex  Rickard, 
the  greatest  showman  and  promoter  in 
sports.  Sometimes  Tex  would  be  upset  by 
criticism  of  his  judgment  as  a  match- 
maker and  he  would  say,  "Look,  Ed,  I  don't 
make  matches  for  myself.  I  make  them  for 
the  people."  Another  thing  that  both- 
ered Tex  Rickard  was  one  of  the  Barnum 
legends.  Tex  insisted  that  Barnum  was 
too  great  a  showman  to  have  said  that 
there  is  a  sucker  born  every  minute. 

"Years  after  Rickard  died,  I  came  across 
an  autobiography  of  Barnum  in  a  second- 
hand store  and  you  can  bet  I  took  the  book 
home,"  Ed  says.  "And  there  was  the 
proof  that  Rickard  knew  what  he  was  talk- 
ing about.  On  one  page,  Barnum  had  writ- 
ten, 'I'd  like  to  find  the  Broadway  wise- 
acre who  quoted  me  as  saying  that  there 
is  a  sucker  born  every  minute.  Nothing 
could   be   further   from   the    truth.' " 

It  is  to  the  sentiments  of  George  Arliss 
and  Rickard  and  Barnum  that  Ed  sub- 
scribes. Yet,  on  one  Sunday  evening,  Ed 
entertains  between  forty  and  sixty  million 
people — a  larger  audience  than  the  greats 
of  former  years  had  to  reckon  with  in  a 
lifetime.  It  is  a  gigantic  audience.  And  it 
is  a  fabulous  job  which  Ed  performs,  for 
each  program  is  a  fresh  challenge — each 
week  there  are  different  acts,  frequent  for- 
mat changes,  bold  experimentation.  There 
are  no  tryouts  before  an  audience,  no 
chance  to  "doctor"  the  performance.  It 
takes  a  remarkable  talent — genius — to  do 
this  job. 

Ed  Sullivan,  great  showman  that  he  is, 
does  it  every  week  on  Toast  Of  The  Town. 


''Who'd '6e//ei/e  /was  eve/- 
embarrassed 6/  PiMPLESf* 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED 

hides  pimples  while  it  works 

Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely 
improved  while  using  clearasil. 

Amazing  starving  action. clearasil  actually 
starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the  oils 
that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  clearasil's  anti- 
septic action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria  that 
can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored  to 
hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless... pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 

America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication ...  because  clearasil  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED  to 
work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or  money 
back.  59tf  and  98<*.  At  all  druggists.  Get  clearasil 
today.  •  (Available  in  Canada,  slightly  more.) 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


« 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
,+hJ  congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing orinjuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 

R.  G.  VISCOSE  COMPANY 
140  N.  Dearborn  Street,  Chicago  2,  Illinois 


FREE  SALES  KIT  HELPS 
YOU  MAKE  BIG  MONEY  FAST! 

Rush  your  name  and  address  today  lor 
amazing  new  sales  kit.  It's  absolutely  FREE. 
Gives  you  startling  information.  Tells  you 
how  to  make  big  money  fast  and  often  by 
helping  us  take  orders  for  magazine  subscrip- 
tions in  your  neighborhood.  It's  easy!  No  ex- 
perience needed!  FREE  kit  works  like  magic 
to  put  dollars  in  your  pocket!  You  don't 
invest  a  penny  of  your  money  now  ox  any 
time.  We  supply  everything  you  need  free. 
Act  now.  Paste  this  ad  on  a  post  card.  Rush 
name   and   address   for   FREE   sales   kit   to: 

Subscription  Agents  Division. 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

205  East  42  Street,  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


_  Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

....  „ ■  time  and  abilities  permit.  Equivalent  to  resi- 
dent Bchool  work- — prepares  for  college  entrance  exame.  Standard 
H.  S.  texts  supplied.  Diploma  awarded.  Credit  for  H.  S.  subjects 
completed.     Single  subjects  if  desired.     Ask  for  Free  Bulletin. 

>  American  School,  Dept.  H553,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37 


ENLARGEMENT 

of  your  f-ai/orrte  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUIIOS 
*£i  Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
i  make  you  a  beautiful  studio  quai- 
l's ity  5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
L^  shot,  photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
£}|J  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
5,l!s?*'uiu7v^  offcr  f°r  having  your  enlarge- 
«&ijvy//iilivnvv  ment  beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  lOtf  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-50 
7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd.,   Hollywood   38,    Calif. 


BE  YOURSELF  AGAIN! 

When  you  feel  nervous  and  "on-edge"  during 
the  day,  MILES  NERVINE  calms  you  .  .  . 
helps  you  feel  relaxed.  Taken  at  night,  MILES 
NERVINE  LETS  you  sleep;  doesn't  MAKE 
you  sleep!  That's  why  you  feel  fresher,  more 
rested  next  day.  Follow  the  label,  avoid  excessive 
use.  MILES  NERVINE  is  sold  at  all  drug- 
stores, effervescent  tablets  and  liquid. 


91 


look  slimmer.. .Fee/  better 

♦W/JH  AMAZING  NEW 


The  ONLY 

abdominal 

foundation 

garment afo 

can  wear  under 

slacks,  shorts, 

swimsuits  and 

dresses  too! 


!98 


Ig.  U.  S.  PATENT 

fee  No.  566432 

No.  506797 


Featuring 

UNURIOCKING  HANDS 
\0F  FIRM  SUPPORT* 

WAISTLINE   TAKEN    IN. ..STOMACH   FLATTENED. 

Tummy-Slim  takes  in  the  waist  to  the  right  pro- 
portions-makes you  ready  for  the  latest  fashion 
creations.  Only  Tummy-Slim  does  this  properly,  yet 
correctly  taking  in  the  stomach. 
BACK  HELD  TOGETHER.  Tummy-Slim  is  wonderful 
for  your  back— holds  it  together  firmly— keeps  you 
from  getting  that  "falling  apart"  feeling. 
DETACHABLE  GARTERS  AND  CROTCH  PIECE.  Detach- 

i  able  garters  and  crotch  piece  make  it  possible  to 

[wear  Tummy-Slim  under  slacks, 

I  play  shorts,  as  well  as  evening 

[wear. 

NO  LACES-NO    STEEL   RIBS. 

Tummy-Slim  Supplies  "hold-in" 
power  comfortably,  correctly  and 
differently. 

LTetr  the  INTERLOCKING  HANDS 
LOF    FIRM    SUPPORT*   this   way: 
Interlock    hands    across    abdo- 
men    as    in    the    picture,    then 
Lgently  press  up  and   in.   Feel 
.and   look   better?  Of  cou 


/ 


FOR  10  OAT  , 

FACE  TRIAL  / 

MAIL     , 

COUPON 

TODAY 


jdol  That's  whatTumn 
Slim   will   do   for   yc 


9    m^ 

IBM  ■  ■!!■ 


"  WARD  GREEN  CO.,   Dept.  T-156 

■  43  West  61  Street,  New  York  23,  N.  Y. 
'  Gentlemen: 

|   Send   Tummy-Slim   on   approval   for  10   DAYS   FREE    _ 
_   TRIAL.    I   will   poy   postman   $3.98   plus   postage.    If    ™ 

■  not   satisfied   with   results    I    may   return    belt    in.  10    I 
I   DAYS  ond  purchase  price  will  be  promptly  refunded.    | 


I 


Waist  Measure  Hip  Measure 


|  Name 


Address 


i 

I 

J  City  Zone  State    I 

■   D  Check  here  If  $3.98  is  enclosed  ond  we  pay  post-    | 
oge.  Same  refund  offer  applies.  tj 


92 


Long  Live  the  Queen 


{Continued  from  page  74) 
first  joined  Queen  For  A  Day  (then  two 
weeks  old) .  He  had  originally  come  from 
station  KGB  in  San  Diego  to  KHJ  Mutual 
in  Los  Angeles,  as  a  staff  announcer  on  the 
early  morning  Rise  And  Shine  show.  The 
audition  on  Queen  was  Jack's  first  crack 
at  the  big  time.  "I  was  to  take  over  on  a 
trial  basis  for  two  weeks,"  he  recalls.  "But, 
after  the  first  minute  of  the  first  show,  I 
didn't  think  I  would  last  even  that  long! 
We  were  doing  the  show  live,  and  the 
script  and  I  got  confused." 

Jack  was  supposed  to  say:  "Now  go  out 
and  buy  the  sponsor's  product.  .  .  ."  But 
the  second  and  third  pages  of  his  script 
were  interchanged.  Jack  cut  from  the  mid- 
dle of  the  commercial  message — "go  out 
and  buy" — to  a  gag  on  the  top  of  page 
three,  reading,  "all  the  old  railroad  ties 
you  can  find!" 

"Confused!"  says  Jack.  "Why,  I  bumped 
into  myself  three  times  trying  to  escape 
the  howl  from  the  audience.  I  remember 
asking  the  folks  if  I  couldn't  start  all  over 
again.  They  were  kind  enough  to  let 
me.  .  .  ." 

It  was  Jack's  humility  in  the  first  mo- 
ment of  his  first  Queen  show  that  forever 
won  the  hearts  of  his  studio  and  radio  au- 
diences. As  the  show  went  off  the  air,  the 
producer,  the  late  Bud  Ernst — impressed 
with  Jack's  humility,  his  ability  to  ad  lib 
and  quickly  recover — said  to  Raymond  R. 
Morgan,  owner  of  Queen:  "If  you  don't 
sign  this  boy  Bailey  right  now,  I'll  quit!" 

"That  day  was  my  first  experience  with 
the  graciousness  of  the  Queen's  audience," 
says  Jack.  "And,  for  your  graciousness,  I 
thank  you." 

Jack's  second  "thank  you"  came  five 
years  later.  Some  prospective  agencies  felt 
the  show  was  "slipping."  Because  Mutual's 


500  stations  reach  many  small  towns  not 
covered  by  rating  services,  no  one  knew 
for  sure  whether  or  not  Queen  had  any 
listeners. 

"One  day,"  Jack  recalls,  "Mr.  Morgan 
visited  Carol  and  me  at  home.  While  ad- 
miring our  tulips,  he  said,  'I've  got  an  idea 
that  I  believe  will  tell  us  how  many  listen- 
ers we  have.  For  twenty-five  cents,  we'll 
offer  an  assortment  of  tulips  to  your  audi- 
ence, and  they'll  be  "just  like  Jack's  and 
Carol's."  The  returns  should  give  us  a 
rough  idea  of  the  size  of  the  listening 
audience.' 

"Rough  idea!"  says  Jack.  "There  couldn't 
have  been  that  many  people  in  the  United 
States — they  must  have  heard  our  show 
in  Holland!  The  first  day  after  our  offer, 
the  Hollywood  post  office  was  swamped. 
Before  the  week  was  out — thanks  to  our 
loyal  friends — we  had  fifteen  girls  sorting 
returns.  We  had  quarters  by  the  shovelful. 
For  a  while,  it  looked  as  though  Carol  and 
I  would  have  to  dig  up  our  own  bulbs  to 
meet  the  demand!" 

Did  the  returns  prove  Queen  had  many 
loyal  listeners?  Before  the  counting  was 
over,  Old  Gold  joined  Queen  as  a  new 
sponsor — they've  been  there  ever  since. 

Finally,  Jack  wants  to  thank  all  his  lis- 
teners for  the  ten  years  of  letters  they 
have  sent  in.  He  reads  them  all,  and  some 
of  them  touch  him  deeply — especially 
those  that  tell  how  the  Queen  has  helped 
them  in  some  way.  "Some  people,"  says 
Jack,  "feel  they  are  left  alone  with  their 
problems.  But,  when  they  see  and  hear  the 
Queen,  they  realize  they  are  not  alone — 
and  they  are  encouraged. 

"When  these  nice  folks  write  to  us  with 
their  thanks,  saying,  Queen  For  A  Day  has 
helped  them,  I  can  only  reply,  once  again. 
'Thank  you  for  helping  us.' " 


Here's  George  Gobel 


(Continued  from  page  54) 
routine.    George    is    a    'thinking   comic'." 

Pat  Kelly  (George's  MCA  agent) : 
"George  is  the  same  sweet  little  guy  he 
was  when  he  first  walked  into  our  offices. 
He  hasn't  changed  a  bit.  But  he  has 
charmed  the  entire  organization!  Believe 
me,  that's  not  easy — when  I  say  'organi- 
zation,' that  includes  the  people  in  New 
York,  Chicago,  and  Hollywood  offices.  They 
are  all  show  folks,  experienced,  worldly — 
if  you  want  to  call  them  that.  But  they 
have  been  charmed  by  George,  each  and 
every   one." 

Joe  Strauss  (George's  technical  direc- 
tor) :  "George  has  a  sense  of  humor.  You 
may  think  that's  a  funny  statement,  but 
I've  known  comics  who  don't  have  a  sense 
of  humor.  And  he's  fast  with  an  ad  lib. 
Last  week,  the  director  called  out,  Are 
you  ready,  sir?'  George  said,  'Wait  one 
moment.  I  must  consult  my  book  on 
Stanislavsky!'  His  humor  is  infectious.  It 
keeps  the  set  laughing  and  relaxed.  As  a 
result,  the  work  gets  done  faster,  easier, 
and  without  pressure.  George  is  a  natural- 
ly funny  man." 

Hal  Kanter  (George's  head  writer) : 
"George  is  objective;  he  thinks  about 
every  line  in  the  script.  And  he's  critical. 
If  he  doesn't  like  a  line,  we  discuss  it.  But 
he's  agreeable,  too — he'll  always  listen  to 
our  suggestions.  He  regards  entertain- 
ment with  integrity.  He  respects  people. 
He  wouldn't  think  of  bringing  'sex'  into 
viewers'  living  rooms.  Integrity,  that's  the 
word  for  George." 

Jeff  Donnell  ("Alice"  on  the  George 
Gobel    Show) :     "George    is    a    gentleman. 


The  first  time  I  came  on  stage,  he  offered 
me  a  chair,  introduced  me  to  everyone 
on  the  set.  Everybody  knows  everybody, 
and  it  shows  in  the  work;  everyone  works 
for  the  good  of  the  show.  And  there's 
never  any  tension — no  shouting,  even  on 
Saturday,  the  day  of  the  show!  I've  been 
on  sets  that  fell  apart  on  show  day.  Not 
the  George  Gobel  Show — you'd  think  we 
were  all  there  for  tea! 

"My  husband,  Aldo,  comes  to  all  the 
shows,  too.  He's  as  crazy  about  George  as 
I  am.  We  know  Alice — the  real  Alice,  that 
is — very  well,  and  we  all  visit  and  have 
great  times   together. 

"Performers  have  security  on  George's 
show.  He  never  ad-libs  within  the  script. 
Therefore,  you  feel  safe,  because  you  al- 
ways know  where  you  are.  Some  stars  will 
throw  in  a  line — and  you're  left  in  the 
lurch.  You  can't  imagine  the  sinking  feel- 
ing that  gives  you.  But  George  is  too 
much  of  a  gentleman  to  do  anything  like 
that." 

Harry  Winkler  (one  of  George's  writ- 
ers) :  "George  is  a  humble  liar.  For  ex- 
ample, he  made  a  trip  to  Cincinnati  not 
long  ago.  Twenty  thousand  people  turned 
out  to  greet  him!  When  he  came  back,  I 
asked  him,  'How  was  Cincinnati,  George?' 
'Oh,'  he  said,  'pretty  good — wish  you  had 
been  there.'  More  than  twenty  thousand 
people,  and  he  says,  'pretty  good'!  But 
that's  George." 

George  Gobel  (star  of  the  George  Gobel 
Show):  "What'd  I  tell  you?  They're  all  a 
bunch  of  liars.  .  .  ." 

Editor's  Note:  But  they're  the  best  kind, 
aren't  they,  George? 


Sergeant  Friday  Speaks 

(Continued  from  page  59) 
"There  is  more  teen-age  trouble  today  than 
ever  before.    More  important,  the  propor- 
tion of  teen-age  crime  is  increasing." 

Why  is  this  problem  growing?  Though, 
as  Jack  repeats,  he  is  no  authority,  he 
does  have  the  unique  position — as  pro- 
ducer and  star  of  Dragnet,  with  its  docu- 
mentary treatment  of  police  problems — to 
help  him  formulate  an  opinion.  Some  of 
the   reasons   he   lists   as   follows: 

"That  major  pitfall,"  says  Jack,  "is  that 
the  kids  are  not  far-sighted.  They  can't 
see  the  consequences  of  a  spur-of-the- 
moment  action.  Thoy  don't  understand, 
for  example,  that  the  very  friends  they 
choose  to  run  with  are  setting  the  pat- 
terns  of  their   own  futures. 

"I  remember,  for  example,  a  young  man 
in  high  school  who  was  a  fine  athlete.  But 
he  made  the  wrong  kind  of  friends.  Dur- 
ing the  first  year  of  the  war,  he  wanted 
to  join  the  Air  Force.  He  qualified  phys- 
ically and  mentally,  but  they  kept  him  out, 
I  later  learned,  because  of  his  character 
references — a  result  of  his  failure  to  look 
to  the  future." 

The  decision  between  right  and  wrong 
is  always  up  to  the  individual:  When  teen- 
agers select  their  friends  they  make  just 
such  a  decision.  When  Jack  Webb  was  a 
high-school  student,  the  local  malt  shop 
was  a  breeding  ground  for  teen-age 
trouble.  In  his  three  years  in  school,  Jack 
never  set  foot  in  this  corner  store.  Not 
that  he  was  prissy — but  he  knew  that  the 
malt  shop's  hangers-on  could  only  reflect 
ill  on  him.  In  short,  he  was  looking  ahead. 

"Experimentation  on  the  part  of  the 
teenagers,"  says  Jack,  "is  another  reason 
for  the  increased  crime  rate.  They  want  to 
know  what  it's  like  to  drink,  to  smoke,  to 
carouse.  Why  do  they  experiment?  For 
many  reasons:  Because  they  want  to  know 
what  it's  like;  because  they  don't  want  to 
be  left  out — they  want  to  feel  they  belong 
to  the  crowd;  because  their  emotions  are 
on  their  sleeves — they  change  with  the 
wind;  because,  since  they  are  youngsters, 
they  think  they  are  not  being  watched;  or 
because  they  think  they  can  get  away 
with  a  'first  time.' 

"What  they  have  to  learn,"  says  Jack, 
"is  that  experimentation,  presumed  pleas- 
ure for  a  fleeting  moment,  can  rob  them 
of  the  permanent  things  in  life.  One  drink 
in  a  speeding  car  can  kill.  One  affair  can 
destroy  an  entire  family  forever.  Our  so- 
ciety allows  no  quarter  for  the  first  large 
mistake — the  first  mistake  is  often  the 
last.  And  the  growing  crime  rate  shows 
these  mistakes  to  be  increasing. 

"Learn  without  experimentation,"  says 
Jack,  "is  the  thing  we  have  to  get  across 
to  the  kids.  There  are  many  ways  for  them 
to  learn.  Books,  magazines,  newspapers,  all 
tell  them  in  plain  terms  the  drastic  results 
of  alcoholism  and  narcotics.  Their  teachers 
can  show  them  what  alcohol  does  to  their 
insides.  The  schools,  with  their  auditorium 
calls,  the  churches  with  their  educational 
films,  and  the  parents,  too,  can  explain 
and,  in  many  cases,  show  the  results  of 
dope  addiction  or  sexual  delinquency. 

"We  are  obliged  to  show  them  the  con- 
sequences of  this  behavior.  Then  they 
have  to  use  their  own  judgment.  The  de- 
cision is  theirs — and  the  future  is  their 
future." 

Why  doesn't  Jack  show  the  conse- 
quences of  teen-age  alcoholism  or  dope  ad- 
diction on  Dragnet?  "Because,"  he  says, 
"it  is  not  entertainment."  His  descriptions 
are  a  convincing  argument.  There's  no  en- 
joyment watching  a  youngster  in  the  proc- 
ess of  wrecking  his  life;  there's  no  fun 
watching  a  future   flame   up   in  the   fiery 


ARE  YOU  "ALL  MOUTH" 
-AND   NO   EYES? 

If  you  use  lipstick,  you  r\eed  MAYBELLINE  eye  make-up  to  accent 
your  eyes — for  real  beauty  is  balanced  beauty. 

Your  eyes  are  your  most  important  feature!  Don't  leave  them 
"washed-out  looking"  in  contrast  to  a  vividly  made-up  mouth. 

Make   your   eyes   truly    lovely   today  —  quickly    and    easily  —  with 


PREFERRED       BY       SMART 
WO/WEN     THE     WORLD    OVER 


EYE       SHADOW     •    EYEBROW      PENCIL 


AT  LEADING  VARIETY  STORES 

Tie  Bows  Likelfe! 


> 

-4 


Z: 

a 

< 


THE  GIFT  TIE  THAT  "CURLS 

Get  these  two  "HOW- 
TO-DO-IT"  Booklets 

Buy  the  King-Size  Spool  and 
make  Bows  for  every  occasion 
Tells  you  how  to  tie  dozens  of 
bows  and  special  effects 
Tells  how  to  make  a  variety  of 
expensive-looking  gifts  with 
Crinkle-Tie 

,.,  ^ 

jjfe^V^l^«G  VAR|t,H  * , 

^CRINKLE-TIE***** 

2300  Logan  Blvd.,  Chicago  47,  III. 
(    )  Send  me  booklet  on  tying  beautiful  bows. 
(    )  Send  me  Crinkle-Tie  Cralt  Booklet. 
I  enclose  10c  in  coin  lor  each  booklet. 


your  hair  needs  LOVALON 


For  gayer,  brighter,  more  colorful 
looking  hair,  be  sure  to  use  LOVALON 
after  each  shampoo.  Lovalon  removes 
dull  film,  blends  in  off  color  or  gray- 
ing streaks  and  softens  the  appear- 
ance of  dyed  hair.  Not  a  permanent 
dye,  not  a  bleach  —  Lovalon  is  a  rinse 
made  in  12  hair  i 
shades.  Select 
the  shade  for | 
your  coloring. 

10c  for  2  rinses 
25c  for  6  rinses 


A 


THIS  GORGEOUS  BOOK  IS  REALLY  .  .  . 

HOLLYWOOD 
IN  REVIEW 


It's  better  than  everl  It  contains  more  news  and  pictures 
about  all  the  stars  of  Hollywood  than  ever  before.  Yes,  the 
exciting,  new  1955  edition  of  PHOTOPLAY  ANNUAL  is 
sensational.  It's  a  treasure-mine  of  information  about  the 
stars  ...  a  real  Who's  Who  in  Hollywood.  This  colorful 
and  glamorous  year  book  is  THE  book-of-the-year — as  far 
as  Hollywood  is  concerned.  Get  your  copy  of  this  prize 
book  before  they  are  all  snatched  up.  Here  is  what  you  get 
in  this  great  yearbook: 

NEWS  EVENTS  OF  THE  YEAR— 20  exciting  pages  in 
pictures  and  text  covering  the  month-by-month  weddingB — 
separations — divorces — births — awards — scoops. 

PERSONALITIES  OF  THE  YEAR— Stories  and  pictures 
of  Robert  Wagner  •  Janet  Leigh.  Tony  Curtis  •  Debbie 
Reynolds  •  Rock  Hudsun  •  Marilyn  Monroe  •  Guy  Madi- 
son •  Audrey  Hepburn  •   Audie  Murphy. 

LOVE  SCENES — Beautiful  full-page  scenes  of  the  stars 
from  ten  top  shows  of  the  year. 

DANCERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Action  pictures  and  bio- 
graphical sketches  of  Cyd  Charisse  •  Vera-Ellen  •  The 
Champions  •   Taina  Elg  •   Leslie  Caron  •  Mitzi  Gaynor. 

PERFORMERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Here  you  get  portraits 
as  well  as  action  shots  from  their  big  pictures,  plus  the 
autographs  of  Marlon  Brando  •  June  Allyson  •  Van  Johnson 

•  Judy  Garland  •  Robert  Mitchum  •  Gary  Cooper  • 
Burt  Lancaster  •  Ava  Gardner. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES— Beautiful  pictures,  plus  thumb- 
nail sketches  of  Alan  Ladd  o  Susan  Hayward  •  Dean 
Martin  •   Jerry  Lewis  •     eanne  Crain   •   William  Holden 

•  Eleanor  Parker  •  Chirk  Gable  •  Betty  Grable  •  Victor 
Mature  •  Virginia  Mayo  •  Robert  Taylor  •  Barbara 
Stanwyck  •  Richard  Widinark  •  John  Wayne. 

SONGSTERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Doris  Day  •  Howard  Keel 

•  Jane  Powell  •  Bin«  Crosby  •  Danny  Kaye  •  Rosemary 
Clooney  •  Frank  Sinatra. 

PORTRAIT  GALLEKr—  Full-page  pictures  of  Esther 
Williams  •  Elizabeth  Taylor  •  Montgomery  Clift  •  Jeff 
('handler  •  Stewart  Qranger  and  Jean  Simmons  •  Ann 
Blyth  •  Charlton  Heston  •  Piper  Laurie  •  Scott  Brady  • 
Jane  Russell  •  John  Derek. 

ASCENDING  STARS — These  are  the  names  that  are 
making  news.  Some  have  just  flashed  into  sight — some  now 
Bhlne  with  an  extra  radiance — Terry  Moore  •  George 
Nader  •  Edmund  Purdom  •  lack  Lemmon  •  Richard  Bur- 
ton •  Barbara  Rush  •  Susan  Cabot  •  Jeff  Richards  • 
Steve  Forrest  •  Doe  Avedon  •  Audrey  Dalton  •  Race 
Sentry  •  Rubs  Tamblyn  •  Sarlta  Montlel  •  Elaine  Stew- 
art •  Jeffrey  Hunter  •  Elroy  Illrsch  •  Rhonda  Fleming  • 
Pat  Crowley  •  Ben  Cooper  •  Lorl  Nelson  •  Robert  Stack  • 
Julia  Adams  •   Suzan  Ball  •  Maria  English. 

ONLY  50C— WHILE  THEY   LAST 

This  sensational  Yearbook  sells  out  practically  as  soon  as 
it  is  put  on  sale.  Don't  be  disappointed  this  year — only 
50c  at  newsstands  or  mall  coupon  with   50c — TODAY. 

TpHOTOPLAY  Dept.  WG-555  | 

I  205  E.  42  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

'  Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  PHOTOPLAY  | 
I  ANNUAL  1955.  I  enclose  50c 

|   Name ■ 

t  *     Picas*    Print 

V  I 

I   Address 

i   City State I 

! ' I 

!i! 


pain  of  dope  addiction,  nor  in  looking  at 
death  and  destruction  pouring  from  a 
bottle. 

Our  expanding  economy,  says  Jack,  is 
another  reason  for  the  increase  in  teen- 
age trouble.  He  feels  that  it  is  new  wealth 
which,  at  this  time,  youngsters  have  not 
yet  learned  to  handle.  "In  my  high  school 
days,"  Jack  says,  "the  entire  student  body 
boasted  of  only  a  handful  of  automobiles. 
Today,  almost  every  student  has  a  car,  or 
can  get  one. 

"In  addition,  teenagers  have  incomes 
which  far  surpass  anything  we  had  during 
the  thirties.  Today  the  average  teenager 
earns  $30  a  month  during  a  school  semes- 
ter. During  the  summer,  that  figure  goes 
to  $36.  I  think  the  earning  part  is  great. 
What  alarms  me  is  what  they  buy  with  it." 

This  new  wealth  brings  problems.  In 
time,  Jack  feels  the  youngsters  will  learn 
to  handle  it.  But,  in  the  meantime,  they 
tend  to  splurge.  Their  problems  often 
begin  when  their  ready  money  is  spent  on 
liquor:  "The  combination  of  alcohol  and 
automobiles  can't  help  but  lead  to  trouble." 

Automobiles  are  another  part  of  the 
problem  that  go  hand  in  hand  with  the 
wealth.  "When  I  was  in  high  school," 
Jack  recalls,  "we  seldom  roamed  away 
from  our  own  back  yard.  But  an  auto- 
mobile goes  everywhere.  It's  difficult  to 
keep  a  parental  eye  on  the  kids  when  the 
entire  city  becomes  a  back  yard  to  roam 
in." 

"Wine  Gulch,"  a  hill  in  the  Los  Angeles 
area,  is  an  illustration  of  what  the  auto- 
liquor  combination  can  create.  "Wine 
Gulch,"  as  it  is  called,  is  a  remote  area  in 
the  Los  Angeles  hills.  It  has  become  a 
nighttime  rendezvous  for  youngsters,  their 
automobiles,  and  their  bottles. 

Recently,  patrolling  officers  found  two 
seventeen-year-old  boys  lying  stupefied  in 
the  middle  of  the  road.  The  bottles  piled 
around  them  told  their  story.  It  was  a 
wonder  they  had  not  been  run  over  by 
some  of  their  confederates.  It  was  sheer 
luck  that  they  had  fallen  off  to  sleep — for, 
if  they  had  tried  driving  down  the  tortu- 
ous road,  they  surely  would  have  skidded 
off  the  mountainside. 

"Their  experimentation,"  says  Jack, 
"could  have  led  them  to  serious  trouble — 
by  that,  I  mean  criminal  behavior,  the 
kind  that  wrecks  futures.  Separate  records 
are  not  kept  on  the  physical  condition  of 
delinquents  in  custody.  If  they  are  brought 
in  drunk  for  burglary,  or  if  they  are 
doped  up  when  arrested  for  armed  rob- 
bery, the  books  show  it  as  burglary  and 
robbery.  The  statistics  never  show  what 
their  condition  was  when  they  were 
brought  in.  But  any  police  officer  will  tell 
you  there  is  a  high  correlation  between  the 
use  of  stimulants  and  the  crime  rate." 

What  can  we  do  about  delinquency,  a 
growing  blot  in  our  society?  One  idea  is 
to  replace  lower-principled  behavior  with 
something  higher.  This  takes  work  and 
imagination  on  the  part  of  teachers  and 
parents.  "I  once  knew  a  mother,"  says 
Jack,  "whose  two  youngsters  loved  to  play 


with  matches.  She  substituted  a  twenty- 
five-cent  box  of  jack-straws.  The  idea 
worked." 

The  same  principle  applies  to  teenagers. 
If  they  want  to  get  out  from  under  the 
observation  of  their  parents,  then  send 
them  out— but  guide  them.  This  plan  has 
worked  very  well  in  Los  Angeles,  where 
the  DAPS  (Deputy  Auxiliary  Police) 
teen-age  clubs  are  sent  with  counselors, 
each  summer  and  winter,  to  city  camps 
high  in  the  San  Bernardino  Mountains. 
They  swim,  hike,  ski,  and  skate,  are  kept 
busy  in  healthy  recreation. 

The  entire  problem  of  juvenile  delin- 
quency is  a  complex  one.  The  lack  of  fore- 
sight on  the  part  of  the  youngsters  is  not 
the  only  cause.  Broken,  poor,  or  unhappy 
homes  contribute  to  delinquency — but  they 
don't  have  to.  Jack  Webb's  own  success 
is  proof  of  that. 

And  the  additional  causes  overlap. 
There  is  no  telling  which  is  most  impor- 
tant, or  where  one  begins  and  another 
ends.  The  expanding  economy,  for  ex- 
ample, provides  money  for  spending;  auto- 
mobiles are  commonplace  and  carry  young- 
sters out  of  range  of  their  parents'  obser- 
vation; liquor  is  bought;  they  feel  they 
want  to  "belong";  they  think  they  will  be 
excused  for  their  first  mistakes;  they  think 
they  are  not  being  observed;  they  "ex- 
periment"— and    Wine    Gulches    are    born. 

Who  is  responsible?  The  parents,  the 
teachers,  the  teenagers  themselves.  Par- 
ents can  make  more  time  for  their  children, 
help  them  to  substitute  something  worth- 
while for  their  wild  behavior.  It  takes 
thought  and  imagination,  but  it  pays  off. 

"I  remember  an  acquaintance  of  mine," 
says  Jack,  "who  had  a  thirteen-year-old 
son  and  a  fourteen-year-old  nephew.  They 
were  fine  kids  alone.  But,  when  they  were 
together,  the  world  had  to  beware.  One 
summer,  when  the  nephew  visited  for  a 
week,  the  parent  hit  on  this  idea:  He  filled 
two  jars  full  of  nickels.  Every  time  the 
kids  got  in  trouble,  he  took  out  a  nickel. 
At  the  end  of  the  week,  they  were  to  get 
whatever  was  left  over.  They  behaved 
like   angels. 

"The  most  important  thing  that  came  of 
this  was  a  new  hobby.  The  kids  had  to 
keep  occupied,  so  they  started  to  build  a 
boat.  They  kept  out  of  trouble  the  rest  of 
the  summer  by  finishing  the  boat." 

The  parents  should  make  more  time  for 
their  family  and  home.  Jack,  for  example, 
insists  his  wife  will  be  a  homemaker,  not 
a  performer  in  his  new  "Pete  Kelly's 
Blues,"  as  has  been  rumored.  "One  show- 
business  career  in  any  family  is  enough," 
he  says. 

And  both  teachers  and  parents  should 
encourage  constructive  behavior  in  teen- 
agers; make  an  attempt  to  replace  the  bad 
with  something  good,  as  illustrated  by  the 
"nickel"  and  "jackstraw"  examples. 

"But  in  the  last  analysis,"  says  Jack, 
"the  decision  to  'experiment,'  to  do  right 
or  wrong,  is  up  to  the  individual  teen- 
ager." And  his  plea  to  today's  young 
generation  is:    "Look  to  the  future." 


JUNE  .  .  .  MOOTS  .  .  .  TUNE 

What  could  be  a  more  timely  "rhyme"  than  next  month's  full-color  portrait  of 
Jackie  Gleason  and  Audrey  Meadows 

plus  a  life-size  story  about  your  favorite  "Honeymooners"?  .  .  .  Then — for  the 
first  nautical  note  of  the  season — a  shipload  of  pictures  and  prose  about 

Arthur  Godfrey's  Mariners 
June  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  at  your  newsstand  May  5 


Thanks,  Pardner! 

(Continued  from  page  71) 
wasn't  a  screen  star  at  that  time,  Gene 
hadn't  recognized  him  by  sight.  But  every- 
one knew  who  Will  Rogers  was,  by  repu- 
tation. Gene  figured  that,  if  Will  Rogers 
believed  he  should  be  in  radio,  there  must 
be  something  to  it! 

It  was  this  belief  expressed  by  Will 
Rogers  which  started  Gene  on  his  way. 
Shortly  after  the  meeting,  the  Depression 
hit  the  railroad.  Gene  was  laid  off.  "I  got 
a  pass,  then,"  he  says,  "and  headed  for  New 
York.  Mr.  Rogers'  words  encouraged  me 
to  believe  that  I  could  sing  for  my  supper. 

"I  left  the  old  B  &  O  railroad  in  New 
Jersey  and  crossed  the  Hudson  River  by 
ferry.  It  was  early  in  the  morning  and,  as 
I  stood  looking  at  the  New  York  skyline,  I 
remember  thinking,  'Boy,  if  you  get  in 
amongst  those  tall  skyscrapers,  you'll  be 
lucky  if  you  can  ever  find  your  way  out!'  " 

Gene  eagerly  made  the  rounds  of  the 
record  and  radio  companies.  But  nothing 
came  of  it  until  he  met  Art  Satherly,  then 
in  charge  of  country  music  for  American 
Records  (now  Columbia  Records).  "I  had 
been  doing  a  poor  imitation  of  Rudy  Val- 
lee,"  says  Gene.  "No  wonder  nobody  lis- 
tened to  me.  But  Mr.  Satherly  said,  Young 
man,  you  can  do  it  if  you'll  just  be  your- 
self. Now  go  back  to  Oklahoma  and  get 
some  experience.' " 

Art  Satherly  had  shown  faith  in  Gene 
Autry.  Gene  took  his  advice;  he  went  back 
to  Oklahoma  for  "experience."  "I  worked 
at  KVOO,  the  Voice  of  Oklahoma,"  recalls 
Gene.  "During  this  time,  I  also  wrote  some 
songs  with  my  wife's  uncle,  Jim  Long.  He 
had  been  a  dispatcher  on  the  railroad  and 
we  used  to  sing  and  play  the  guitar  to- 
gether." 

Jim  Long  encouraged  Gene,  too.  He  saw 
the  young  man  had  talent  and  urged  him 
to  keep  at  his  singing,  playing  and  song- 
writing. 

One  of  the  songs  that  Gene  and  Jim  Long 
worked  on  together  was  "Silver-Haired 
Daddy  of  Mine."  "Then,"  remembers  Gene, 
"Art  Satherly  saw  a  copy  and  asked  me  to 
come  back  to  New  York  to  record  it."  Gene 
figures  he  must  have  had  his  "experience" 
— for  "Silver -Haired  Daddy"  grew  into  his 
first  million-selling  record. 

Will  Rogers,  Jim  Long  and  Art  Satherly 
all  had  faith  in  Gene's  ability.  He  feels  it 
was  their  encouragement  that  helped  him 
along  the  road  to  his  first  big  success. 

Then  came  motion  pictures.  Gene  was 
introduced  to  his  producer,  Armand 
Schaeffer,  as  "that  young  singing  fellow." 
Mr.  Schaeffer  was  unimpressed — until  he 
and  Gene  went  to  Sacramento  on  a  per- 
sonal appearance.  There  Gene  performed 
for  a  group  picnic  in  an  Old  West  setting. 
Mr.  Schaeffer  immediately  saw  that,  though 
not  completely  polished,  Gene  had  a  qual- 
ity the  people  loved.  He  couldn't  wait  to 
get  back  to  start  their  first  picture. 

Armand  Schaeffer  had  faith  in  Gene. 
But,  after  they  saw  the  first  rushes,  Gene 
wasn't  sure  he  had  faith  in  himself.  "Good- 
ness," he  said,  "I  better  go  back  to  radio!" 

"Just  a  minute,"  said  Mr.  Schaeffer.  "It's 
a  better  picture  than  you  think.  Just  be 
patient." 

The  picture,  when  released,  was  a  suc- 
cess. "Tumbling  Tumbleweeds,"  Gene's 
second,  was  an  immediate  smash,  too.  Then 
"Mexicali  Rose,"  "Red  River  Valley"  and 
"South  of  the  Border"  followed  in  quick 
succession.  Mr.  Schaeffer's  faith  in  Gene 
was  paying  off.  Today,  twenty-odd  years 
later,  he  is  still  the  producer  of  Gene's 
Flying  A  Productions. 

"Yes,"  says  Gene,  "faith  is  what  got  me 
here — whatever  faith  I  had  in  myself,  but, 
more  important,  the  faith  other  people  had 
in  me.  If  it  weren't  for  them,  there'd  be 
no  twenty-five  years  of  thanks!" 


Don*t  Veil  Yoimi*  Trime  Beauty  I 


STESTUE  COLOR 

in  your  hair  makes  your  whole  appearance  come  "alive" 

NESTLE  COLORINSE  glorifies  the  natural  color  of  your 
hair  instantly!  Adds  sparkling  color-highlights,  silken 
lustre  and  sheen.  Wonderfully  easy  to  use  . . .  rinses  in  — 
shampoos  out!  12  lovely  colors.  6  rinses  25<t,  14  rinses  50£. 

NESTLE  COLORTINT  gives  your  hair  exciting  new  color! 
Hides  gray  hairs . . .  blends-in  streaked,  bleached  or  dyed 
hair.  This  quickly-applied  temporary  tint  is  more  than  a 
rinse  ...  it  lasts  through  3  shampoos.  Colortint  is  enriched 
with  esters  of  Lanolin  to  condition  your  hair  as  it  colors! 
10  beautiful  shades.  6  capsules  29(5,  14  capsules  50#. 


NESTLE  SPRAZE 

in  handy  spray  container... keeps 
your  hair  softly  in  place  all  day! 
Lanolin-enriched.  Only  89tf. 


1905/ 1955 
GOLDEN     ANNIVERSARY 

Invention  of  Permanent  Waving  by  NESTLE 


BALLET 

Brand  Stockings 


NEW! 

•  Sheer  stretch  nylon 
never  wrinkles 

•  Stretches  to  fit  per- 
fectly top-to-toe 

•  Heavenly  comfort 
•3  sizes— 1  perfect 

for  you! 

•  Only  $1.95  a  pair 

v       Brand 

stretch  stockings 
a  burlington'Squauty  product 


amcliUiK  dciuncl'J 

Make  This  p  A  *  T  E  R  N 

Anne  Fogarty  ;s  -* 

• 
Original  j>  ~ 

and  be  the  ?*  H 

Best  Dressed  Girl    ffl/ \    , 

In   Town  l; 

1 1  i  i\ 

Let  these  famous  /   /                  i  v-""""' 

American  Designers  j    I  < 

help  you  be  the  best  I  I           r-Ji 

dressed  girl  in  town  un      \YT* 

— if  you  can  sew:—  ^^  FOGARTy 

Ceil  Chapman — Claire  McCardell — Tina 
Leser — Jo  Copeland — Philip  Man  gone — 
Monte  Sano — Herbert  Sondheim — Anne 
Fogarty — Brigance — David  Goodstein — 
Joset  Walker — Joseph  Halpert  —  Vera 
Maxwell — Toni  Owen — Fira  Benenson— 
Harvey  Berin — F rank  Gallon  t — Mollic 
Parnis — Clare  Potter. 

Patterns  of  136  original  designs  by 
these   famous   names   are   now    available. 

To  see  this  entire  collection  send  50c 
for  our  100-page  pattern  booklet  XL 

World  Wide,  Dept.  WG-555 
63  Central  Avenue 
Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send    me    100-page    pattern    booklet    XI.      I 
enclose  50c. 

N  WIE 

STREET 

CITY 

/ONE STATE 


95 


SURVEY  SHOWS  ANSWERS  FROM 


96 


Nil  Koto  suggest 

DOUCHING 
ZONITE  for 

feminine  hygiene 

Brides-to-Be  and  Married  Women 
Should  Know  These  Intimate  Facts 

Every  well-informed  woman  who 
values  her  health,  physical  charm 
and  married  happiness,  knows  how 
necessary  a  cleansing,  deodorizing 
douche  is  for  intimate  feminine  clean- 
liness and  after  monthly  periods. 
Douching  has  become  such  an  es- 
sential practice  in  the  modern  way  of 
life,  another  survey  showed  that  of 
the  married  women  asked — 83.3% 
douche  after  monthly  periods  and 
86.5%  at  other  times. 

It's  a  great  assurance  for  women  to 
know  that  ZONITE  is  so  highly  thought 
of  among  these  nurses.  Scientific  tests 
proved  no  other  type  liquid  anti- 
septic-germicide for  the  douche  of  all 
those  tested  is  so  powerfully  ef- 
fective yet  so  safe  to  body  tissues. 

ZONlTE's  Many  Advantages 
zonite  is  a  powerful  antiseptic- 
germicide  yet  is  positively  non-poi- 
sonous, non-irritating.  You  can  use 
it  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A  zonite 
douche  immediately  washes  away 
germs  and  waste  deposits. 
It  effectively  deodorizes  and 
leaves  you  with  a  wonderful 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence— so  refreshed  and 
dainty.  Inexpensive — zonite 
costs  only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 


Why  They  Remember  Mama 


ZONITE— the  Ideal  'AIL-PURPOSE' 
Antiseptic-Germicide 


{Continued  from  page  51) 
stumbled  into  a  bad  marriage,"  says  Rose- 
mary Rice,  who  plays  Katrin  on  the  pro- 
gram. 

"I  call  my  own  mother  'Mum,'  but  to 
me,  Miss  Wood  will  always  be  Mama," 
says  Robin  Morgan,  who  has  grown  up 
on  the  show  from  a  wide-eyed  seven- 
year-old  to  a  bright,  keen-witted  thir- 
teen. 

As  if  preparing  a  sequel  to  Mama,  en- 
titled "I  Remember  Peggy  Wood,"  they 
tell  what  she  means  to  them.  The  fun 
stories  come  first — picnics  at  Peggy's  home 
in  Connecticut,  post-vacation  parties  at 
her  Manhattan  apartment,  laughs  during 
moments  of  relaxation  over  coffee  at  re- 
hearsals. 

Next  they  tell  of  her  professional  help. 
"She  advises  me  which  Broadway  roles 
to  accept,"  say  Dick.  "Then  she's  right 
there,  suggesting,  criticizing,  making  sure 
I  give  a  good  performance." 

Her  help  for  Robin  began  with  the  child's 
first  appearance  on  Mama,  when,  carrying 
a  white  rabbit,  she  was  required  to  fall. 
"The  rabbit  squirmed  and  I  was  scared  I'd 
hurt  it,"  Robin  recalls.  "Mama  asked,  'Are 
you  having  trouble?'  Then  she  showed 
me  what  to  do." 

"Showing  Robin  what  to  do"  has  gone 
on  ever  since.  Peggy  has  taught  her  to 
embroider  and  knit:  "When  I  finally 
learned  to  purl,  she  showed  it  to  everyone, 
saying,  'I  told  you  Robin  could  do  it.' " 
They  exchange  recipes  and  Robin  brings 
samples  of  her  cooking  for  Peggy  to  taste. 
Both  are  proud  of  their  Norwegian  pan- 
cakes. Robin  shows  her  report  card.  "She's 
quick  to  discipline  me,  but  quicker  to 
praise." 

Always,  Mama  is  concerned  about  her 
stage  children's  happiness.  Says  Rosemary, 
"It  upset  everyone  when  I  became  en- 
gaged to  a  man  who  was  so  jealous  he 
insisted  I  quit  the  show.  Peggy  made  me 
see  I  was  an  individual,  not  a  doormat. 
She  said,  'Are  you  sure  he's  right  for  you, 
and  you  for  him?  Take  your  time.  Don't  let 
pride  stand  in  your  way.  Better  to  break 
up  now  than  divorce  later.'  I  was  touched 
that  she  cared  so  much  what  happened 
to  me." 

Breaking  that  engagement  cleared  the 
way  for  Rosemary's  happy  marriage  last 
year  to  Jack  Merrell,  a  young  insurance 
man.  "Jack  is  proud  of  me  and  proud  of 
the    show,"   Rosemary    confides.    "He   told 


me  he  knew  I'd  always  need  to  create 
something.  You  don't  know  what  that 
meant  to  me.  This  isn't  just  a  TV  job. 
We're  a  real  family,  and  if  I  had  to  quit, 
I'd  feel  just  awful." 

Dick,  when  he  came  under  Mama's  kind- 
ly influence,  was  twenty,  and  finding  out 
just  how  much  footloose  fun  a  young  actor 
can  have.  "I  never  intended  to  get  tied 
down,"  he  says,  "but  I  wasn't  here  long 
before  I  wanted  a  family  of  my  own."  He 
found  the  girl  when  dancer  Pat  Poole  wan- 
dered in  from  the  Jackie  Gleason  rehearsal 
next  door.  "Our  wedding  was  a  real  thrill. 
Mama  cried  just  as  many  happy  tears  as 
my  own  mother.  Judson  Laire — he's  Papa — 
was  an  usher,  and  all  the  family  was 
there." 

All  the  family  gathered  again  when  Pat's 
and  Dick's  son  was  baptized.  "Peggy  and 
Jud  are  his  honorary  godparents,"  says 
Dick  proudly.  "His  name  is  Richard  Nels 
Van  Patten,  and  of  course  we  call  him 
Nels." 

A  more  formal  accounting  of  Peggy 
Wood's  life  also  is  impressive.  Her  starring 
and  leading-role  credits  cover  two  full 
columns  in  Who's  Who  in  the  Theater  and 
range  from  singing  the  lead  in  "Naughty 
Marietta,"  when  she  was  eighteen,  to  dra- 
matic roles  in  Shakespeare,  Shaw  and  Noel 
Coward  plays.  She  has  also  published  a 
novel,  an  autobiography  and  many  maga- 
zine articles.  She  first  wed  the  poet,  John 
V.  A.  Weaver.  Eight  years  after  his  death, 
she  married  William  A.  Walling,  head  of 
a  large  printing  company.  She  has  a  son, 
David,  and  two  grandchildren  who  are  a 
great  source  of  happiness. 

For  her  inspired  portrayal  in  Mama,  as 
Marta  Hansen,  the  Norwegian  immigrant 
who  gave  her  family,  through  love,  the 
security  it  lacked  financially,  Peggy  Wood 
was  decorated  by  King  Haakon  of  Norway 
with  the  Royal  St.  Olav  Medal.  Lake  Erie 
College  conferred  on  her  the  degree  of 
Doctor  of  Fine  Arts,  and  many  civic 
groups  have  also  made  citation  in  her 
honor. 

With  a  mature  actor's  viewpoint,  Judson 
Laire,  who  plays  Papa  Hansen,  comes  as 
close  as  anyone  can  to  defining  the  magic 
of  Mama:  "Peggy  set  the  pace  and,  long 
ago,  we  all  stopped  regarding  this  as  'just 
another  show.'  Instead,  each  episode  is 
truly  a  family  problem.  We  work  it  out 
together." 

And  each  will  always  remember  Mama. 


It  might  have  been 
my  daughter! 


When  you  listen  to  radio's  "My  True  Story",  you  hear  an  emotion-packed 
episode  that  might  easily  have  happened  in  your  town,  your  own  street — your 
own  home.  For  here  ore  true-to-life  stories,  taken  right  from  the  files  of 
"True  Story  Magazine".  They  deal  with  the  loves  and  hates,  jealousies  and 
fears  of  real-life  people.  And  understanding  their  agonizing  emotional  con- 
flicts may  help  you  to  avoid  heartache  for  yourself  or  your  loved  ones. 
So  be  sure  to  listen. 


TUNE  IN 


// 


MY  TRUE  STORY 


// 


AMERICAN   BROADCASTING  STATIONS 

No  one  understood  why  the  Reverend  had  married  her— the  town's  spinster.  Only  she  knew  his  shameful 
reason.  Read  "MURDERESS!"  in  MAY  TRUE  STORY  MAGAZINE  at  newsstands  now. 


Eternal  Miracle 

(Continued  from  page  69) 
born.  But  Eve  herself  doesn't  think  of  her 
first-born  as  her  first  baby.  During  her 
earlier  marriage,  Eve  adopted  her  Liza, 
now  nine,  and  Connie,  who  is  seven.  After 
her  marriage  to  Brooks,  the  Wests  also 
adopted  Duncan,  now  two.  Then  ...  on 
September  17,  1954,  in  Hollywood's  Cedars 
of  Lebanon  Hospital  .  .  .  Douglas  Brooks 
West  was  born — weighing  in  at  a  husky 
9  pounds,   4  ounces. 

To  our  Mrs.  Brooks  West,  wee  Douglas 
is  her  fourth  child.  "The  physical  act  of 
birth  does  not  make  a  mother,"  Eve  ex- 
plains. "The  child  himself — by  whatever 
means  he  comes  to  you — is  the  miracle.  .  .  . 
I  adore  the  baby,  of  course,"  she  smiles. 
"He  is  utterly  enchanting.  However,  in 
spite  of  having  had  him,  I  cannot  believe 
— I  do  not  feel — that  he  is  any  more  a 
part  of  me  than  my  three  other  babies. 

"I  bristle,"  Eve  adds,  bristling,  "when 
people  say  to  me:  'Now  that  you  have 
your  own  child — '  I  dislike  the  phrase, 
'my  own  child.'  I  get  so  very  annoyed 
when  people  speak  of  the  'natural  mother.' 
The  physical  act  of  birth  does  not,  I  re- 
peat, make  a  mother.  Giving  birth  to  a 
child  deepens  your  feeling  for  all  children, 
yes.  .  .  .  But,  when  people  say  to  me, 
starry-eyed,  'Now  that  you  have  a  child 
of  your  own,'  my  answer  is:  'This  is  just 
a  baby  that  came  a  different  way.' 

"Strangely  enough,  I  always  felt  that  I 
was  going  to  adopt  children.  And,  by  'al- 
ways,' I  mean  just  that — for,  ever  since  I 
could  toddle,  I  was  taking  care  of  every 
infant  in  the  Mill  Valley,  California, 
neighborhood  where  I  was  born  and  raised. 
'Pleeth  let  me  take  your  baby,  Mith' 
Joneth,'  were,  my  family  used  to  tease  me, 
almost  my  first  words.  They  were  cer- 
tainly the  words  I  used  most  frequently. 
For  some  reason  or  other — which  is  not 
quite  clear,  even  to  me — I  always  thought 
in  terms  of  'taking'  a  baby  rather  than  of 
'having'  one. 

"And  in  fulfilling  this  ambition,  I  was — 
at  the  age  of  three  and  a  half — a  kidnap- 
per! This  I  have,  straight  from  the  lips  of 
an  eyewitness  in  the  person  of  my  maternal 
aunt  .  .  .  who  came  out  of  the  Mill  Valley 
post  office  to  find  a  distraught  mother 
wailing,  'Someone  has  stolen  my  baby!' 
Casting  an  experienced  eye  around  her — 
and  finding  me  gone — Auntie  patted  the 
frantic  female  on  the  shoulder  and  said: 
'Calm  yourself,  Madam.  I  think  I  know 
what  has  happened.'  Whereupon  Auntie 
took  off  just  in  time  to  see  me  rounding 
the  corner  with  the  baby  buggy! 

"  'But  no  one  wanted  it,  Auntie,'  I  ex- 
plained, 'so  I  took  it.' 

"Instinctively  I  must  have  felt  what  I 
have  continued  to  feel  ever  since  .  .  .  that 
there  are  so  many  children  'no  one  wants,' 
so  many  children  who  need  homes,  that  it 
behooves  someone  who  feels  as  I  do  to 
adopt  them.  And  the  way  I  feel,  I  can  best 
explain  by  quoting  the  late  Judge  Ben 
Lindsey,  who  said:  'I  love  the  child,  not 
because  he  is  my  child,  but  because  he  is 
a  child.' 

"This  doesn't  mean  that  I  didn't  want 
to  have  a  child  by  birth,  for  not  to  want 
this  would  be  to  ignore  a  basic  need  in  the 
nature  of  every  normal  woman.  It  does 
mean  that,  had  I  been  unable  to  give  birth, 
I  would  not  have  been  neurotic  about  it. 
I  was  never  told,  by  doctors  I  consulted 
after  I'd  been  married  a  couple  of  years, 
that  I  couldn't  have  one.  I  just  didn't.  And 
so,  without  the  slightest  feeling  of  frus- 
tration, I  made  up  my  mind  to  adopt  some. 
And  this,  I  suppose,  had  been  tucked  away 
in  my  mind,"  Eve  laughed,  "ever  since 
my  'taking  ways'  first  alarmed  the  neigh- 
borhood! 

"As  soon  as  it  became  known  that  I  was 


AMAZING 
INVENTION 
flAUEHS 
ABDOMN  UP  TO 

4'NCHfS.' 

Just  Step  In.  Adjust  right  panel, 
then  left.  Your  tummy  appearance 
will  shrink  up  to  4  inches  Instantly! 
No  attachments.  No  binding  rein- 
forcements. A  new  Amazing  inven- 
tion. Really  gives  a  youthful  figure' 

The  Principle  of  the  Compreso- 
Belt*.  The  double  extra  front  flat- 
tening and  supporting  panels  per- 
mit sliding  adjustment  comfortable 
to  you.  Utmost  snugness  when  re- 
quired and  relaxed  support  at  other  V 
times.  Waist  sizes  22-42  inclusive.  • 


figure  slimmed 
tummy  supported 
bulges  gone 
ped 


GREEN  CO.,  43  W.  61  St.,  N.Y.  23  Dept.K-326B 
ve  indicoted  my   selection.   Send   for   10-Day   Free^ 
Trial: 

□  Compreso-Belt   (Reg.)     Waist Hip $3.98| 

□  Compreso-Belt    (Panty)    Woist Hip S4.98B 

□  Payment  Enclosed.  Word  Green  pays  postage.      | 
Extra  crotch  .  .  .  50c;  5  for  $2  | 

□  Send  C.O.D.   I'll  poy  postmon  plus  charges.   Re-B 
fund  of  purchase  price  guaranteed.  $ 


Reg.  T.M.  U.S. 
PATENT  Off.    JCITY 


ZONE 


..STATE .■ 


LUCKY     GEMS 


Genuine  Cultured  Pearls! 

A  real  conversation  piece!  The  lovely  lustre  of  this 
genuine  cultured  pearl  is  breathtakingly  beautiful 
set  into  its  pink-lustre  sea  shell.  Displayed  in  a  one- 
inch  diameter  showcase,  framed  in  engraved  24-K. 
gold  plate. 
MASSIVE  BRACELET  $1.98    ENSEMBLE   OF  ALL 

NECKLACE  TO  MATCH  1.98   3   PIECES $5.00 

EARRINGS  TO  MATCH  1.98 

Genuine  Lucky  Starfish 

Surrounded  by  exquisite  real  sea  shells  and  set  into 
our  own  lovely  reproduction  of  an  antique  watch- 
case.  See-thru  unbreakable  crystal  front  and  back! 
You'll  marvel  at  the  originality  of  this  genuine  star- 
fish—watchcase  and  chain  finished  in  durable  24-K. 
gold.  Unbelievably  low-priced. 
MASSIVE  BRACELET  $1.98    ENSEMBLE  OF  ALL 

NECKLACET0  MATCH  1.98   3   PIECES $5.00 

EARRINGS  TO  MATCH  1.98 

Genuine  Foreign  Coin  Bracelet 

Seven  24-K.  gold  plated  foreign  coins,  mounted  on  a  massive  24-K.  gold  plated  link 
bracelet.  A  King's  ransom  that  you'll  see  in  the  most  exclusive  shops  at  fancy 
prices.  These  bracelets  are  the  rage  in  New  York  and  Hollywood.  Order  at  our  low, 
low  price-TODAY. 

MASSIVE    BRACELET $1.98        EARRINGS  TO  MATCH $1.98 

NECKLACE   TO   MATCH 1.98       ENSEMBLE  OF  ALL  3  PIECES 5.00 


SiS!  "FLOATING  OPALS 


Great  big  nuggets  of  fiery 
genuine  opals  floating  in  a 
miniature,  clear  crystal, 
unbreakable  soothsayer's 
GLOBE.  Yes!  The  gem  an- 
cients claimed  had  magi- 
cal properties— the  power 
to  make  your  hopes  come 
true!  GENUINE  OPALS  at 
an  unbelievable  low  price. 

MASSIVE  BRACELET. $1.98 

NECKLACE  TO  MATCH  1.98 

EARRINGS  TO  MATCH  1.98 

ENSEMBLE  OF  ALL 

3  PIECES  5.00 


RUSH  ORDER  TODAY 


Dept.  WG-555 


J  Mercury  Jewelry  Co. 

■  112  Main  St.,  Ossinlng,  N. 

Send    me    the    items    checked    below.    I    enclose 

,  > (No  C.O.D.) 

|  GENUINE  CULTURED  PEARLS 

I  D  Bracelet  D  Necklace        O  Earrings        D  Set 

I  GENUINE   LUCKY  STARFISH 

■  D  Bracelet  Q  Necklace        Q  Earrings        D  Set 
I  GENUINE   FLOATING    OPALS 

I  D  Bracelet  □  Necklace        Q  Earrings        D  Set 

I  GENUINE  FOREIGN   COINS 

I  D  Bracelet  Q  Necklace        0  Earrings        D  Set 

I 

I  Name 

Please  Print 

1  Street 


City. 


Prices    include    Federal    Tax- 


State  

-Postage    Prepaid 


ifa 


i 


"RIOCIN 

BLOTS   OUT 

HICKIES 

INSTANTLY! 


Blots  out  embarrassing 
blemishes  instantly!  Blends 
with  your  skin  best  of  all! 


Dries  up  hickies  quicker!  Keeps 
'em  out  of  sight,  concealing 
better  while  healing  faster! 


Clears  up  acne  faster!  Often 
in  24  hours,  your  skin  can 
meet  your  date-line! 

On  the  job  — or  on  a  date  — don't  let 
unsightly  acne  rob  your  confidence, 
now  that  TRIOCIN  can  rescue  you! 
Hateful  eruptions  can  be  concealed 
instantly  —  can  be  improved,  often  in 
24  hours'.  TRIOCIN  relieves  over- 
active oil  glands  and  thickening  pores. 
It  discourages  bacteria  growth,  thus 
preventing  further  infection.  Get 
TRIOCIN  right  away!  It's  3  ways 
better!  A  $1.29  tube  can  save  a  lot 
of  heartbreak! 

Also  use  TRIOCIN  Blue  Foam 
first,  the  mildest  bubble-foam  designed 
for  cleansing  sensitive  skins.  89<\  Both 
products  available  at  druggists. 

improves  acne... 

OFTEN  IN 

hoursl 


pI^TR.loc,N  \4% 

I  'i  £_       I L^i 


Dfl 


©  1955,  Zotox  I'harmacal  Co.,  Inc. 


going  to  adopt,  however,  the  sisterhood 
gathered,  flapping  their  sable  wings.  'How 
do  you  know  what  you  are  going  to  get?' 
I  was  asked  in  voices  dark  with  dire  fore- 
boding. 'How  would  I  know,'  I  parried, 
'that  if  I  gave  birth  to  a  child,  I  might 
get  one  like  my  great-aunt  Hepzibah? 
You  get  no  guarantees  with  any  of  them!' 

"When  Liza  turned  out  to  be  as  lovable 
as  she  is  lovely  and  Connie's  arrival  was 
being  planned  for,  the  croakers  chorused, 
'How  do  you  know  that  your  luck  will 
hold?'  'I  don't  know,'  I  nipped.  'Who  does?' 

"When  Connie  arrived  and  was  a  per- 
sonality  right  from  the  start  .  .  .  and  then 
— quite  a  few  years  later — Duncan,  who  is 
just  plain  gorgeous  .  .  .  the  croakers 
croaked  no  more. 

"Our  three  adopted  children  were  and 
are  heaven-sent.  If  I  had  drawn  specifica- 
tions, they  could  not  come  nearer  to  my 
heart's  desire.  Mentally,  they  are  bright  as 
buttons.  Temperamentally,  they  are  de- 
lightful, well-adusted  little  people,  fun  to 
live  with.  Physically,  they  are  beautiful 
...  so  beautiful  that,  after  I  knew  Douglas 
was  on  his  way  to  us,  I  said  to  Brooks, 
only  half  in  fun,  'Won't  it  be  awful  if  this 
one  is  the  dud  in  the  bunch?' 

"He  isn't!"  Eve  laughs — and  proves  it  by 
showing  a  picture  of  the  brand-new, 
beautiful  Douglas,  taken  at  three  and  a 
half  months  but  looking  almost  twice  that 
age  and  size.  And  then,  with  the  picture 
of  Douglas  in  one  hand  and  a  picture  of 
Duncan  in  the  other,  Eve  adds — surveying 
both  pictures  with  obviously  impartial 
love  and  pride — "What  is  more,  they  could 
be  blood  brothers,  they  look  so  alike,  ex- 
cept that  our  red-headed  D'uican  is  the 
fair  type,  and  Douglas  is  dark." 

When  Eve  knew  that  she  was  pregnant 
with  Douglas,  she  was  not  as  surprised 
as  one  might  suppose  she  would  be  after 
eleven    years. 

"I  was  prepared  for  this,"  Eve  points 
out.  "Here's  how  and  why:  When  we 
adopted  Duncan,  we  were  all  set  to  go  to 
Europe  for  two  months.  After  we'd  had 
Duncan  for  a  month,  long  enough  to  es- 
tablish him  as  a  member  of  the  family,  we 
took  off,  leaving  him  and  his  nurse  and 
the  two  girls  with  good  friends  in  Con- 
necticut. A  first  trip  to  Europe  is  a  mile- 
stone, an  Adventure  with  a  capital  A — a 
romantic  adventure,  exciting  and  wonder- 
ful— and  I'd  been  looking  forward  to  it. 
So  had   Brooks. 

"So — what  happens?  I  felt  miserable. 
All  over  Europe,  I  just  felt  so  miserable. 
Three  weeks  in  Paris,  which  was  our 
first  stop — Paris! — and  even  in  Paris,  I  was 
miserable.  I  was  extraordinarily  tired. 
Limp.  Loppy.  I'd  just  done  a  season  on 
TV,  as  well  as  radio,  and  that,  I  told  my- 
self, accounted  for  the  fatigue.  I  didn't 
quite  believe  myself,  though — for,  after 
all,  I'd  done  many  a  previous  season  on 
TV  and  never  felt  like  this  before!  I  couldn't 
understand — nor  could  Brooks  understand 
— what  ailed  me.  But,  when  we  got  back  to 
Connecticut,  I  lost  a  baby. 

"The  way  I  was  told  I  was  pregnant  for 
the  second  time  is  really  a  rather  amusing 
story.  It  begins  the  evening  before,  when 
I  was  sitting  on  the  couch  in  our  living 
room,  hooking  a  rug  and  watching  a  tele- 
cast of  the  Emmy  Awards,  which  were 
being  made  that  night.  For  some  reason 
or  other,  my  face  was  slightly  dirty  (we 
were  in  process  of  moving  to  the  farm  at 
the  time,  and  I'd  been  out  feeding  the 
chickens,  no  doubt)  and  my  hair  not 
'done,'  which  was  obviously  causing  some 
concern  to  my  publicity  agent,  Glenn  Rose, 
who  was  watching  the  telecast  with 
Brooks  and  me. 

"  'Suppose,'  said  Glenn,  eyeing  my 
smudged  facade,  'that  you  should  win  .  .  .' 
'Mmmfff,'  said  I,  or  sounds  to  that  effect. 
'There's  a  chance,  you  know,'  Glenn  said, 


'and  if  you  should,  the  photographers  will 
be  here  before  you  have  time  to — ' 

"  'Relax,  honey,'  I  said  soothingly,  calm- 
ly hooking  away.  'Not  a  chance.'  No  soon- 
er were  the  words  out  of  my  mouth  than 
an  Emmy  Award  winner  was  announced — 
and  loudly — as:  'Eve  Ardeni'  So  then  the 
phones  started  ringing,  and  all  I  could 
think  of  to  do  was  to  wash  my  face,  which 
I  did  vigorously,  and  then  photographers 
showed  up — to  be  met  by  a  properly 
scrubbed  and  shining,  if  somewhat  flab- 
bergasted, Miss  Brooks! 

"The  next  morning  my  doctor  called 
when  I  was  busy  on  another  phone.  Dr. 
Auerbach  talked  to  Brooks  and  said,  'Con- 
gratulations!' And  Brooks  said  'Thanks, 
yes,  isn't  it  fine  she  won?'  And  Dr.  Auer- 
bach said,  'No — that  is,  yes — I  mean  an- 
other little  "Emmy"  is  on  the  way — or 
perhaps  a  little  "Oscar." ' 

"We  did  hope,  though,  to  keep  the  secret 
our  secret  for  as  long  as  ever  possible  .  .  . 
and,  for  a  little  time,  thought  we  had  a 
chance,  when  it  became  evident  that  my 
cast — of  all  people — didn't  realize  I  was 
pregnant.  This  was  all  the  more  remark- 
able because,  every  morning  at  10  o'clock, 
I  had  to  have  watermelon!  Had  to.  Water- 
melon wasn't  in  season,  either. 

"Then,  one  morning,  columnist  Mike 
Connolly  called,  briskly  asking:  'When?' 
.  .  .  and  we  knew  our  secret  wasn't  our 
secret  any  more.  Don't  ask  me  how  Mike 
knew.  Don't  ask  me  how  any  columnist 
knows  things  about  you  which,  very  often, 
you  don't  know  about  yourself.  By  osmo- 
sis, I  guess.  Or  maybe  far-off  drums  beat, 
as  in  the  African  jungle.  Who  knows? 

"We  weren't  going  to  tell  the  children 
so  early — waiting  is  hard  for  children.  But, 
once  it  was  in  the  columns,  they  would  al- 
most certainly  be  told  by  their  playmates 
.  .  .  'I  know  something  you  don't  know!' 
.  .  .  'Your  Mama  is  going  to  have  a  baby!' 
And  this,  of  course,  wouldn't  do.  So  we  sat 
them  down  and  we  said:  'Remember,  we 
were  talking  about  something  we  really 
want  for  the  family,  now  that  we're  mov- 
ing to  the  farm?  Well,'  we  said,  'we're  go- 
ing to  get  that  something  we  really  want.' 

"Liza  spoke  up  first:   'Is  it  a  goat?' 

"  'No,'  I  said,  with  really  commendable 
gravity,  'not  a  goat.' 

"Connie:    'A  dog?' 

"  'Not  a  dog.' 

"When  we  finally  managed  to  get  over 
to  them  that  it  was  a  baby  we  were  get- 
ting, we  were  then  careful  to  explain  that 
this  baby  was  not  coming  to  us  the  way 
they  had  come — or  Duncan — but  was,  in 
fact,  with  us  right  now.  'Right  here,'  I  said, 
patting  my  midriff,  'in  Mommie's  tummy.' 

1  his,  I  could  see,  was  going  to  take 
quite  a  time  to  comprehend.  Before  they 
were  old  enough  to  understand  or  analyze 
the  word  'adopt,'  we  had  made  it  a  famil- 
iar word  to  them.  We  made  it  clear  to 
them  that  'to  adopt'  means  'to  choose' — 
and  to  choose  something,  whether  toy  or 
kitten,  or  baby  boy  or  girl,  you  want  very 
much  and  love  very  much.  When  we 
adopted  Duncan,  both  Liza  and  Connie 
went  with  us.  And,  when  Duncan  was 
brought  home,  they  received  him  with  us. 
Liza  had  often  asked  us,  before  we  took 
Duncan,  to  please  'adopt'  another  baby — 
never  to  'have'  one.  And  so  Liza  and  Con- 
nie were  fascinated,  of  course,  because 
this  baby  was  the  first  one  to  come  to  us 
this  way. 

"Every  now  and  then,"  Eve  smiles, 
"Brooks  and  I  bring  up  the  fact  of  how 
lucky  we  are — pretty  smart,  too — to  have 
picked  out  such  wonderful  children.  Some, 
of  this  how-blessed-we-are-with-you 
feeling  must  have  rubbed  off  on  them  .  .  . 
for,  inspecting  young  Douglas  the  day  we 
brought  him  home  from  the  hospital,  Liza 
said,  'You  didn't  pick  out  Douglas.'  To 
which    Connie    added,    sounding    just    the 


least  bit  patronizing,  'No,  you  didn't  .  .  . 
and  he's  a  pretty  little  fellow,  too!' 

"No,"  Eve  says  (in  answer  to  the  ques- 
tion 'What  did  you  want,  a  boy?').  "No,  I 
wanted  a  girl.  I'm  a  little  partial  to  girls. 
Also,  we  had  just  adopted  a  boy.  Now,  of 
course,  I  can't  imagine  anything  but  a  boy. 
Yet,  although  I  wanted  a  girl — or  believed 
I  did — we  were  so  sure  it  was  going  to  be  a 
boy  that  we  decided,  right  off,  on  a  boy's 
name — which  right  from  the  beginning, 
was  Douglas.  When  it  came  to  choosing  a 
girl's  name,  I  said,  'Let's  take  a  look  at  it 
first,  and  then  decide.'  I  am  a  great  believ- 
er, anyway,  in  fitting  the  name  to  the  child. 
To  my  mind,  'Liza'  and  'Connie'  fit  Liza 
and  Connie  as  smoothly  as  made-to-order 
gloves.  Duncan,  our  red-headed  Scotsman, 
couldn't  be  anything  but  Duncan.  And 
Douglas  is  right  for  young  Doug,  or  he 
would  have  been  re-titled,"  Eve  laughs, 
"after  the  first  'sneak  preview'! 

"When,  at  last,"  Eve  resumes,  "  'my 
time'  came — don't  tell  me  it  was  only  nine 
months! — and  I  was  on  my  way  to  the 
hospital,  with  Brooks  at  the  wheel,  I  was 
determined  to  keep  it  all  light  and  gay  for 
Brooks.  I'd  take  off,  I'd  promised  myself, 
laughing!  I  did,  too.  And  although  there 
were  a  few  hours — from  11  P.M.  or  so  to 
5:41  A.M.,  when  Doug  was  born— that  I'd 
just  as  soon  forget,  I  got  a  few  laughs,  too! 
In  the  Prep  Room,  for  instance — which 
was  my  first  port  of  call — I  went  all  to 
pieces  when  a  very  pedantic  little  woman 
came  in,  saying  cozily,  'Isn't  it  nice  to  have 
Miss  Brooks  with  us?'  'Miss  Brooks'  yet! 

.Later,  in  the  pre-labor  room,  when  the 
smile  was  getting  a  little  set,  little  pixies 
kept  coming  out  of  the  wall,  pencils  and 
paper  in  hand,  asking  for  my  autograph! 
'Don't  bother,'  they'd  say,  sympathetically, 
'with  any  message.  Just  sign  your  name — 
Eve  Arden,  you  know,  then  Our  Miss 
Brooks.'  'Our  Miss  Brooks' — while  I  was 
having  a  baby! 

"I  wanted  to  be  conscious — I  wanted 
very  much  to  be  conscious  when  my  baby 
was  born — but  I  wasn't.  There  was  a  pe- 
riod of  oblivion  .  .  .  and  then  I  remember 
rolling  over  and  seeing  a  little  baby,  my 
little  baby,  having  his  hair  washed!  The 
next  thing  I  remember  is  complaining  to 
the  anesthetist  that  they  hadn't  laid  him 
on  my  chest  for  my  personal  inspection.  I 
remember  seeing  Brooks  in  the  hall,  as 
they  wheeled  me  out,  and  watching  him 
as  he  inspected  the  baby.  And  I  remember 
hearing  Dr.  Krahulik,  who  was  my  obste- 
trician, saying  to  Brooks:  'Very  fine  deliv- 
ery, Mr.  West.  No  problem  at  all.' 

"An  hour  later  I  was  up,  walking 
around,  talking  to  people  on  the  phone, 
making  plans  with  Brooks  for  moving  to 
the  farm  which  is  now  our  year-round 
home.  Our  suburban  house  just  seemed 
wrong  with  four  children.  They  need  the 
freedom  the  farm  provides,  the  activities, 
the  animals  ....  we  realize  this  when  we 
watch  Liza,  who  has  her  own  horse,  sad- 
dling him  and  going  off  for  long  rides. 

"And  so,"  Eve  glows,  "when  the  time 
was  right  and  the  marriage  was  right,  that 
'basic  need'  in  my  nature,  of  which  I 
spoke,  was  fulfilled.  And  the  marriage, 
Brooks'  and  mine,  is  so  very  right.  He  is 
incredibly  patient  with  the  children,  and 
understanding  beyond  anything  I  have 
ever  known. 

"I  wouldn't  have  missed  this  experience, 
for  anything  in  the  world,"  Eve  says  fer- 
vently. "At  the  same  time,  I  say  again  that 
I  would  not  have  been  neurotic  about  it  if 
I  had  been  unable  to  have  this  experience. 
I  may  have  another  baby — I  don't  know. 
And  I  may  adopt  another.  I'd  like  to  have 
another  little  girl.  Either  way,  it  will  be 
richly  rewarding.  And  either  way,"  says 
Our  Miss  Brooks — who  was  a  born  mother 
before  ever  she  took  or  bore  a  child — "it 
will  be  equally  rewarding." 


' ZIP... IT'S  ON 
ZIP... ITS  Off 

Never-neverbeforesuch 
a  sensational  all-around 
foundation  controller  as 
new  FIGURE  TRIMMER 
with  the  amazing  remov- 
able-adjustable waist 
and  tummy-nipping  band 
which  INSTANTLY  tucks 
away  tummy  and  waist 
and  makes  you  look  and 
^feel  younger,  many 
inches  slimmer. 


^CORRECTS  FAULTS  OF  OTHER  GARMENTS 

Where  other  foundations  fail  — New  Figure 
trimmer  succeeds.  Most  girdles  either  hold 
in  the  abdomen  but  push  up  the  waist- 
others  nip  the  waist  but  do  nothing  for  the 
abdomen.  Only  New  Figure  Trimmer  both 
nips  the  waist  and  flattens  the  stomach 
and  firmly  supports  the  back  too.  It's 
the  amazing  Zip-On-Zip-Off  Band  with 
extra  adjustment  that  does  this. 

"  WARD  GREEN  CO.,  Dept   F-246 

■  43  West  61  Street,  New  York  23,  N.  Y. 
I  Send   the   Figure  Trimmer  for    10   Days  Trial.    Full   | 

■  refund  of  my  purchase  price  guaranteed. 

I  □  I  enclose  $ Ward  Green  pays  postage. 

■  □  Send  COD.  I'll  pay  purchase  price  plus  postage.  I 

■ 

My  waist  size  is  .  ■ 

□  Regular  (waist  22-32)  $3.95       (33  &  up)  $4.95  I 

□  Panty  (waist  22-32)   $4.95         (33  &  up)  $5.95  ■ 

□  Detachable  crotch  piece  50c  extra;  5  for  $2 

I 
I 

J 


Elsa  Maxwell's 

Etiquette  Book 

This   Famous  Hostess   Writes   About    Good   Manners 


Flsa  Maxwell 


Good  manners  are  one  of 
the  greatest  personal  as- 
sets you  can  possess. 
Good  jobs,  new  friends, 
romance,  and  the  chance 
to  influence  people  can  be 
won  with  good  manners. 
Ladies  and  gentlemen  are 
always  welcome  .  .  .  any- 
where. And  the  most 
encouraging    thing    about 

good  manners  is  that  anyone  can  possess 

them. 

Go   Places — With   Good   Manners 

Elsa  Maxwell's  new  book  is  different 
from  the  usual  dry-as-dust  etiquette 
volume.  It's  gay!  It's  up-to-date!  It's  just 
chock-full  of  the  type  of  information  you 
can  put  to  immediate  use.  It  brings  you 
a  thorough  social  education,  that  will 
enable  you  to  live  a  richer,  happier  life. 
Here  in  clear,  straightforward  language 
are  the  answers  to  all  your  everyday  eti- 
quette problems.  Here  you  find  important 
suggestions  on  good  manners  in  restau- 
rants— in  church — in  the  theatre — on  the 
street— and  when  you  travel. 
In  this  book  Elsa  Maxwell  covers  every 
phase  of  engagements  and  weddings.  Here 
is  everything  you  need  to  know  about  in- 


vitations, gifts,  the  wedding  dress,  the 
attendants,  the  reception,  etc.  The  bride 
who  follows  the  suggestions  contained  in 
this  up-to-date  book  need  have  no  wed- 
ding fears.  She  will  be  radiant  in  the 
knowledge  that  her  wedding  is  correct  in 
every   detail. 


ONLY   $1.00 

You  owe  it  to  yourself 
to  have  the  information 
contained  in  Elsa  Max- 
well's Etiquette  Book. 
The  price  of  this  splen- 
did book  is  only  $1.00 
postpaid.  Order  TODAY. 


j.  = „ ._„-.- -^ 

1  BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE,  INC..  Dept.  WG-555 
J  205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

'  Send  me  postpaid  a  copv  of  ELSA  MAX- 
!  WELLS  ETIQUETTE  BOOK.  I  enclose 
!  $1.00. 


NAME. 


STREET. 


■  CITY.  . 

I 

■  STATE. 


99 


we're  off  on  a 


with 


PHOTOPLAY'S 


big  MAY 
Travel  Issue! 


on  newsstands  now 

featuring  a 

NEW  TRAVEL  CONTEST! 
It  can  be  yours 

Be  sure  to  read  the  special  travel 
article — how  you  can  win  a  thrilling 
vacation  to  glamorous  Hollywood! 

See  Photoplay's  exciting  Travel  clothes 
at  your  favorite  theatre  too. 

featuring  exciting  new 
Travel  Fashions  by: 

Ballet  Hosiery  Maidenform  Bras 

Catalina  Meeker  Bags 

Clifton  Bags  Rose  Marie  Rejd 

Grace  Walker  Shoes        c 

.  Samsonite 

n.  &  5.  Jewelry 

Hussco  Shoes  Sea  faM°™ 

llene  Ricky  Sea  Nymph 

Justin  McCarty  Playtex  Bras 

Lewella  Bras  Playtex  Swim  Caps 

Playtex   Girdles 

Cosmetics    by  —  Max    Factor    and    Helene    Curtis 

Travel  information  by  courtesy  of  Santa  Fe,  Grey- 
j  hound,  Trailways,  TWA 

"       See  It!     Read  It! 

100     GET  YOUR  COPY  EARLY! 


A  Song  from  His  Heart 


(Continued  from  page  63) 
people  were  involved  in  all  my  shows,  and 
my  recordings,  and  in  every  bit  of  the  work 
I  was  doing,  and  what  it  would  mean  if  I 
failed  them.  (I  didn't  want  to  sound  im- 
portant, but  you  know  what  I  meant.  These 
people  would  be  doing  other  things,  if  they 
weren't  working  with  me,  but  at  the  mo- 
ment their  work  was  bound  up  with  mine 
and  all  of  them  were  putting  their  best 
into  it.)  I  sometimes  wondered  if  I  was 
big  enough  to  handle  everything  I  had 
started  out  to  do — television,  radio,  rec- 
ords, guest  appearances,  benefits. 

"Now  I  know  that  I  am  ready  for  this  re- 
sponsibility. I  have  had  experience.  Fine, 
solid  experience.  Older  and  wiser  people 
have  helped  me  to  pace  myself,  to  work 
without  tension  and  strain.  Everything  has 
become  less  difficult.  And  I  have  learned  a 
wonderful  lesson — that  when  you  take 
things  as  they  come,  and  really  enjoy  what 
you  are  doing,  nothing  is  too  hard." 

Milton  Blackstone,  Eddie's  personal 
manager,  came  in  just  then.  Milton  is  the 
man  who  has  guided  his  career  from  the 
beginning. 

"Eddie  is  right,"  Milton  said.  "He's  re- 
laxed now.  He  has  a  more  understanding 
approach  to  his  work  and  to  life.  Things 
which  would  have  bothered  him  a  year 
ago,  he  now  takes  in  stride." 

xlis  work  week  right  now  is  a  full  one. 
He  has  his  network  radio  shows  for  Mu- 
tual and  two  network  television  shows,  on 
Wednesday  and  Friday  evenings,  for  NBC. 
He  has  had  twenty  hit  records  in  a  row,  the 
newest  being  "A  Man  Chases  a  Girl"  and, 
on  the  other  side,  "I'm  Always  Hearing 
Wedding  Bells."  Four  of  the  recordings 
have  been  immortalized  on  golden  discs — 
symbol  of  having  sold  more  than  a  million. 
It  looks  as  though  this  newest  one  will  be 
the  fifth  golden  record. 

He  makes  many  guest  appearances.  When 
he  did  the  Berle  TV  show  early  this  year, 
he  rehearsed  six  solid  days,  and  was  on 
stage  with  Berle  most  of  the  hour-long 
program.  "I  learn  a  lot  every  time  I  work 
with  him,"  Eddie  said.  "He  knows  so  much 
about  this  business."  Eddie  is  frequently 
a  guest  on  Ed  Sullivan's  Toast  Of  The 
Town.  And  he  does  more  benefits  than 
anyone  can  keep  track  of. 

He  is  working  with  Irving  Berlin  on 
plans  for  a  motion  picture,  with  a  Berlin 
story  and  score.  "Just  think  what  that 
would  mean!"  Eddie  said.  "It's  the  first  pic- 
ture I  want  to  make."  There  was  once  some 
talk  of  his  doing  a  musical  on  the  New 
York  stage,  but  now  he  isn't  sure  he  would 
like  that.  Certainly  not  after  he's  married, 
with  Debbie  making  pictures  three  thou- 
sand miles  away,  in  Hollywood. 

"It  sounds  a  little  corny,  but  I  began  to 
think  I  would  never  meet  a  girl  I  wanted 
to  marry.  Until  I  met  Debbie.  The  very  first 
time  I  saw  her  on  the  screen,  I  became  a 
big,  big  fan.  It  was  in  Korea,  and  the  pic- 
ture was  called  'Singing  in  the  Rain.' " 

Dick  Parks,  Eddie's  stand-in,  had  said 
to  me  earlier:  "They're  terribly  in  love, 
these  two.  Eddie  is  a  sensitive  boy  and  it 
would  be  hard  on  him  to  get  a  rough  deal 
in  marriage,  so  everybody  is  glad  it's  Deb- 
bie. She  has  a  wonderfully  nice  personality, 
just  like  Eddie's.  And  she's  cute  as  a  but- 
ton. They  make  a  perfect  couple." 

Eddie  met  Debbie  three  years  ago,  doing 
a  show  at  Walter  Reed  Hospital  in  Wash- 
ington, but  it  took  a  long  time  for  them  to 
get-together  again.  It  happened  when  he 
was  being  taken  around  the  M-G-M  studio 
in  Hollywood,  where  she  works.  He  asked 
for  her  telephone  number  then  and  she 
gave  it  to  him,  but  they  just  chatted  over 
the  phone  a  few  times  before  he  went  back 
to  New  York.  Then  one  night  he  called  her 


long-distance  and  asked  for  a  date  on  June 
17.  She  didn't  realize  when  she  said  yes  that 
it  was  the  night  of  his  opening  at  the 
Cocoanut  Grove  in  Hollywood.  Now  their 
wedding  is  planned  for  the  latter  part  of 
this  June. 

Eddie  is  happy  that  Debbie  isn't  just  a 
career  girl,  even  though  her  career  is 
zooming  right  up.  "She's  a  very  unusual 
girl,  in  a  very  normal  way,"  he  said,  grin- 
ning at  his  paradox.  "She's  a  career  girl 
with  all  the  qualities  of  a  home  girl.  She 
lives  at  home  with  her  family,  she's  popu- 
lar with  everyone — tremendously  popular. 
She  loves  a  good  time,  and  she  loves  to 
dance.  She  acts  because  she  loves  that,  too, 
and  has  fun  doing  it,  but  I  am  sure  her 
personal  life  comes  first.  That's  difficult  to 
do  when  you  have  a  career,  but  Debbie 
can  do  it — because,  as  I  said,  she's  a  very 
unusual  girl!" 

Jliddie  has  great  respect  for  Debbie's 
work,  as  she  has  for  his.  (When  she 
watches  him  rehearse  for  television  she  al- 
ways says  she  could  never  go  on  as  in- 
formally as  he  does,  accustomed  as  she  is 
to  the  long  rehearsals  and  the  better- 
ordered  life  of  a  motion  picture  studio.) 
They  had  fun  having  her  do  a  "walk-on" 
for  one  of  his  TV  shows — she  came  out  and 
threw  a  big  ball  at  him  in  a  beach  scene, 
but  it  was  done  so  quickly  that  hardly  any- 
one recognized  her.  And  she  has  added 
her  voice  (without  billing)  to  his  singing 
of  "A  Man  Chases  a  Girl,"  on  a  show  or 
two,  as  well  as  on  his  recording. 

"But  I  wouldn't  want  her  to  appear  for- 
mally on  my  shows,"  he  said.  "Debbie  is 
a  personality  in  her  own  right,  a  fine  ac- 
tress and  singer,  and  she  should  do  a  tele- 
vision or  radio  show  of  her  own,  if  ever 
she  wants  to."  (Her  newest  M-G-M  rec- 
ord is  "Never  Mind  the  Noise  in  the  Mar- 
ket," the  flipover  being  "Carolina  in  the 
Morning.") 

Even  though  they  will  live  in  California 
after  their  marriage,  Eddie  still  wants  to 
do  some  of  his  shows  from  New  York.  "I 
would  like  to  be  in  New  York  a  couple  of 
months  every  year,  if  Debbie  can  get  away, 
too.  I  wish  we  could  travel  across  the 
United  States  and  play  to  different  studio 
audiences  in  every  city  (I  miss  a  live  au- 
dience when  I'm  singing).  It  would  be 
wonderful  if  Debbie  and  I  could  go  all  over 
the  country,  doing  my  shows  from 
wherever  we  were.  Perhaps  that  will  hap- 
pen later.  In  the  meantime,  I  suppose  most 
of  the  broadcasts  will  come  from  Holly- 
wood, because  that  is  where  Debbie  must 
be — and  I  must  be  with  her. 

"Do  you  remember  something  I  told  you 
a  year  or  so  ago?"  he  asked  then.  "Do  you 
remember  I  said  that  if  I  ever  got  married, 
I  hoped  the  girl  would  not  have  gone 
everywhere  and  seen  everything  before  I 
met  her?  That  I  wanted,  above  everything 
else,  to  show  Europe  to  her?  Well,  that  is 
going  to  happen  this  summer.  I  am  going 
to  show  Europe  to  Debbie,  her  first  time. 
We  will  be  away  two  months.  Two  long, 
wonderful  months!" 

It  was  the  serious  Eddie  Fisher,  and  the 
gay  Eddie  Fisher,  both  talking  at  once.  The 
serious  young  man  preparing  for  a  honey- 
moon trip  with  the  girl  he  hardly  dared 
dream  he  would  ever  meet,  and  the  gay 
Eddie  Fisher  who  finds  life  such  fun  that 
he  can  hardly  wait  for  the  next  day,  the 
next  month,  the  next  year,  to  unfold. 


JUNE  issue  of 
TV  RADIO   MIRROR 

on  sale  MAY  5 


Jack  Benny — Man  or  Myth? 


(Continued  from  page  47) 
of  the  great  editors  of  our  time;  his  yarns 
have  gone  over  the  air,  instead  of  down  on 
paper,  which  makes  him  a  throwback  (with 
microphone)  to  the  days  of  the  traveling 
minstrels  who  brought  gossip  and  song  to 
the  scattered  populace. 

The  radio  and  TV  Jack  Benny  is  a  char- 
acter created  over  the  years,  his  idiosyn- 
cracies  deepened,  his  foibles  and  traits 
sharpened  until  he  steps  out  of  speakers 
and  tubes  as  real  as  those  risen-from-ink 
myths  of  Sherlock  Holmes,  Paul  Bunyan, 
Pollyanna,  Elsie  Dinsmore,  Philo  Vance, 
and  Scrooge.    Especially  Scrooge. 

Not  long  ago  the  following  classified  ad- 
vertisement was  run  in  the  Sacramento 
(California)  Union:  "Two  women  about 
Jack  Benny's  age  would  like  small  unfur- 
nished house.  Would  like  to  pay  what  Jack 
Benny  would  like  to  pay."  To  at  least  one 
hundred  million  Americans,  this  descrip- 
tion of  prospective  renters  and  their  finan- 
cial status  was  perfectly  clear. 

Children  by  the  dozen  have  written  Jack 
to  ask  for  options  on  any  cubs  produced 
by  Carmichael,  the  bear  that  roams  the 
Benny  premises — in  radio  scripts  only. 
During  the  war,  the  conservation  board  hit 
upon  an  ideal  way  to  call  public  attention 
to  the  need  for  scrap  iron:  They  asked  Jack 
to  donate  his  completely  fictitious  1924 
Maxwell  to  the  scrap  drive. 

It  is  clear  that,  in  times  to  come,  "Jack 
Benny"  will  become  part  of  our  language, 
along  with  such  meaningful  names  as  Steve 
Brodie  and  Annie  Oakley.  A  "Jack  Benny" 
will  be  a  gently  swaggering,  mildly  four- 
flushing  show-off  who  always  gets  his 
comeuppance;  a  tight-fisted,  harmlessly 
vain,  perpetually  frustrated  and  somehow 
likable  "fall  guy." 

Long  ago,  when  Jack  was  still  in  vaude- 
ville, slowly  bringing  the  Benny  character 
to  fully  realized  form,  the  drama  critic  for 
New  York's  erudite  Times  commented, 
"Jack  Benny's  is  the  most  civilized  act  in 
vaudeville." 

A  celebrated  actress,  after  having  lost 
a  movie  plum  she  had  believed  certain, 
after  having  banged  up  her  five-thousand 
dollar  automobile,  and  after  having  staged 
a  battle  with  her  husband  that  sent  him  to 
a  hotel  to  recoup,  announced  to  a  friend, 
"I  feel  exactly  like  that  newspaper  etching 
of  Jack  Benny — you  know,  the  one  adver- 
tising his  TV  show." 

This  economical  sketch,  reproduced 
throughout  America,  depicts  a  pair  of  tragic 
eyes,  a  pair  of  crossed  Mona  Lisa-like 
hands,  and  an  expression  of  profound  frus- 
tration. Essentially  sad,  it  is  also  essentially 
funny  because  nearly  everyone  recognizes 
one  of  his  own  moods  in  that  projection  of 
bewildered  dejection.  We  all  get  "sassed 
back"  by  salespeople,  taxi  drivers,  and  po- 
lice officers.  We  all  overstep  our  knowledge 
of  our  abilities  and  fall  flat  on  our  faces. 
The  "Jack  Benny"  character,  suffering  such 
disaster  with  us,  reduces  our  fate  to  a  sub- 
ject for  laughter. 

So  much  for  the  myth  that  makes  us 
smile.  What  of  the  living,  breathing  man 
who  has  created  the  legend? 

First  of  all,  he  wasn't  born  in  Waukegan, 
Illinois.  He  debuted  into  this  world  in  Chi- 
cago, on  Valentine's  Day,  just  39  years  ago 
(or  in  the  year  1894).  Much  of  the  time  he 
looks  somewhat  younger  than  39,  having — 
as  General  MacArthur  phrased  it — "a  tem- 
per of  the  will,  a  quality  of  the  imagina- 
tion, a  vigor  of  the  emotions,"  that  keep 
him  timeless. 

His  proud  boast  that  he  is  the  world's 
worst  violinist  is  open  to  challenge.  His 
show-business  start  came  as  a  direct  re- 
sult of  his  proficiency  with  the  fiddle.  At 
16,  he  toured  for  two  vaudeville  seasons 


with  a  pianist,  a  woman  old  enough  to  be 
his  mother  and  having  a  mother's  convic- 
tion that  the  Benny  lad  had  talent — even 
if  he  had  been  kicked  out  of  school  for  ex- 
asperating his  teachers.  In  1916,  with  a 
male  partner  (Lyman  Wood),  Jack  Benny 
and  violin  played  the  Palace,  that  famous 
goal  of  all  vaudeville  artists.  Benny  wasn't 
asked  back  until  1924 — and,  by  that  time, 
he  was  carrying  his  fiddle  onstage  merely 
as  a  prop — but  his  musical  abilities  can- 
not be  denied. 

During  the  war,  Jack  was  invited  to  do  a 
benefit  for  Greek  War  Relief.  In  white  tie 
and  tails  he  strode  onto  the  stage,  tucked 
his  violin  into  place,  and  played  a  highly 
involved  concerto  arrangement  of  "Love  in 
Bloom."  Finishing  his  performance,  he 
bowed  solemnly  and  strolled  backstage, 
where  a  friend  congratulated  Jack  ef- 
fusively, saying  that  he'd  never  realized 
that  Jack  had  not  been  kidding  about  his 
violin  lessons  all  those  years.  Jack's  dead- 
pan response:  "Listen — when  I  was 
younger,  they  used  to  call  me  another  Hei- 
fetz .  .  .  not  this  Heifetz — another  Heifetz." 

oecond  most  persistent  of  the  legends 
with  which  Jack  libels  himself  is  that  he's 
a  slow  man  with  a  nickel.  This  gag  started 
during  Jack's  1924  Palace  engagement.  It 
seems  that  the  country  was  suffering  from 
a  mild  post-war  slump,  prices  were  high 
and  money  scarce.  Looking  over  his  audi- 
ence, Jack  realized  that  there  were  many 
couples  in  attendance  only  because  the  es- 
cort had  been  living  on  peanut-butter 
sandwiches  for  a  week.  Wistfully,  he  said 
that  he  had  been  thinking  of  taking  his 
girl  to  a  movie — because,  down  the  street 
there  was  theater  where,  in  blazing  lights 
on  the  marquee,  it  said:  "The  Woman 
Pays."  This  produced  such  understanding 
howls  that  the  character  of  the  man  cling- 
ing devoutly  to  his  dough  was  born. 

In  actuality,  Jack  is  not  profligate 
(never  gambles,  cares  nothing  for  betting 
on  the  horses) ,  but  his  checkbook  is  always 
open  to  worthy  causes.  During  the  war,  he 
spent  well  over  a  hundred  thousand  dollars 
for  telephone  line  charges  to  bring  his 
shows  to  servicemen. 

He  pays  the  highest  salaries  of  any  com- 
edian in  the  broadcasting  business,  and  re- 
cently sent  a  generous  check  to  Walter 
Winchell  for  the  Damon  Runyon  Cancer 
Fund — with  the  understanding  that  the  fact 
would  not  be  publicized. 

Many  a  man,  professionally  generous,  is 
personally  parsimonious,  but  Jack  could 
never  be  accused  of  domestic  penny  -pinch - 
ings.  The  Bennys  live  in  unostentatious  but 
unmistakable  elegance.  Their  Beverly  Hills 
home  cost  $250,000  when  built  in  1939,  and 
it  is  furnished  in  a  deceptively  simple  style 
best  described  as  "comfortable  contem- 
porary." Their  Palm  Springs  home  was 
purchased  in  1951,  at  a  cost  of  $75,000.  The 
main  house  consists  of  living  room,  dining 
room,  kitchen,  servants'  quarters,  and  three 
family  bedroom  suites.  There  is  also  a 
pool,  a  palm-shaded  patio  and  a  guest 
house  which  always  seems  to  be  occupied. 

In  small  things,  as  in  great,  Jack  is  not 
inclined  to  scrimp.  When  his  daughter, 
Joan,  reached  the  age  of  telephonitis,  he 
had  a  private  line  installed  for  her  (use 
unlimited — as  long  as  she  did  her  home 
work) .  Both  Jack  and  Mary  have  always 
had  their  own  private  lines  so  that  Jack's 
often-lengthy  business  calls  would  not  in- 
terfere with  Mary's  active  social  life. 

The  women  in  the  Benny  family  have 
always  been  considered  among  the  best- 
dressed  in  Beverly  Hills,  and  Jack  himself 
is  considered  by  his  tailor,  Eddie  Schmidt, 
to  be  one  of  the  10  best  dressed  men  in  the 
world  today.  At  latest  inventory,  Jack 
owned  around  80  cashmere  sweaters,  about 


K  HIGH  school;* 


No  classes  to  attend  Easy  spare-time  train- 
ing covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly^ 
instructors ;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for  1 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  I 

WAYNE    SCHOOL   CotologHH-23 
2527  Sheffield  Ave./  Chicago  14,  Illinois, 


Callouses 


Pain,  Tenderness,  Burn- 
ing Are  Quickly  Relieved 

You'll  quickly  forget  you  have 
painful  callouses,  burning  or 
tenderness  on  the  bottom  of 
your  feet,  when  you  apply  Dr. 
Sertoli's  Zino-pads.  Thin,  soft, 
wonderfully  soothing,  cushion- 
ing, protective.  Separate  Medi* 
cations  included  for  quickly  re- 
moving callouses.  Try  them! 


D-Scholls  Zino-pads 


101 


Get  to  feeling 

GOODAGAM 


JrmJLKci 

Seltzer 

BRAND  for 

ACID  INDIGESTION 

ALKA-SELTZER  relieves  over-acid  stomach 
with  instant  alkalizing  action,  soothes  and 
settles  an  upset  stomach.  Feel  better  FAST 
with  refreshing  ALKA-SELTZER! 


AT  ALL 
DRUG  COUNTERS 


MILES  LABORATORIES,  INC.,  ELKHART,  IND. 


00  IS  YOURS  EASILY 


For  Selling  Only  lOO  Boxes 
of  Our  Lovely  FLORAL 

EVERYDAY  GREETING  CARDS 

Their  beauty  and  value  sell  on  sight  the  year  'round. 
Yon  make  75c  on  each  box.  New  21-Card  $1  Assortments, 
unusual  Kodachrome,  Lace,  Tall  Cards.  New  Gift  Items,  100 
fast-sellers.  Cash  profits  to  150%  plus  S10-S25-S50  in  Gift 
Bonuses.  No  experience  needed.  Get  free  Stationery  Samples 
and  4  best-seller  Assortments  on  approval.  WRITE  TODAY! 
CREATIVE  CARD  CO..  4401  Cermak  Rd. ,  Dept.  125  A.  Chicago  23,111. 

LOOSE  DENTAL  PLATES 

RELINED   AND   TIGHTENED   AT   HOME   $1.00 

NEWLY  IMPROVED  DENDEX  RELINER,  a 
plastic,  builds  up  (refits)  loose  upper  and 
lower  dentures.  Really  makes  them  fit  as 
"they  should  without  using  powder.  Easily 
-applied.  No  heating  required.  Brush  it  on 
and  wear  your  plates  while  it  sets.  It  ad- 
theres  to  the  plates  only  and  makes  a 
f  comfortable,  smooth  and  durable  surface 
that  can  be  washed  and  scrubbed.  Each 
application  lasts  for  months.  Not  a  powder 
or  wax.  Contains  no  rubber  or  gum.  Neu- 
tral pink  color.  Sold  on  MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE.  Not 
told  In  stores.  Proved  by  15  years  of  Consumer  Use.  Send 
SI  plus  10c  handling  charge  (stamps  or  coin).  Charges 
extra  on  C.O.D.   orders. 

DENDEX  COMPANY   o°#."-z 

2024  West  Sixth  Street   •    Los  Angeles  5,  Calif. 


BIGGEST  MONEY  MAKER  EVER! 

$25»°$SO      ,NJU5T 

**  "*WA  FEW  HOURS! 


NEW  STYLE  CRAZE  BRINGS 
YOU   QUICK  CASH! 

■   On-the-spot  sales  give  up  to  $10  profit 

first   time  you  show   FLEXICL0GS! 

\   Over  a   million  sold.  Selling  like 

^^    wild-lire!  Exciting  hinged  wood- 

ll^^,  en    footweai    Ilexes  on   loot, 

JBT\    sells  entire  family.  Cushion- 

^T^  crepe  soles,  interchange- 

^^^^^      able  straps,  in  11  fashion 

colors,  foam  rubber  insoles, 

or  high  heels.  Close  orders  instantly. 

Matched  accessories  multiply  profits. 


. .  FREE!  $5.50  Sample  Kit  For  You! 


FIEXICLOGS,  Box  755,    New  Holstein,  Wis. 

Hurry  I      Ruih    my    samplo    kit   so   I    can    start    making    I 

money  now  I 

Name.  , ■ 

Address ■ 


102 


I     City Slate. 


40  cashmere  jackets,  some  100  sport  shirts, 
20-odd  pairs  of  gray  flannel  slacks,  a  blue 
capeskin  sports  jacket  (greeted  by  whistles 
from  the  entire  personnel  at  CBS),  and 
around  20  business  suits,  along  with  an  ar- 
ray of  tuxedos  and  full-dress  suits  for  both 
professional  and  personal  use. 

Another  charge  leveled  at  Jack  Benny, 
the  character,  by  Jack  Benny,  the  man,  is 
that  he  can't  act.  "The  Horn  Blows  at  Mid- 
night," a  Benny  motion  picture,  has  come  in 
for  much  caustic  comment  from  Jack. 
Truth  is  that  "Horn"  made  Warner  Broth- 
ers a  nice  piece  of  change. 

Jack's  ability  as  an  actor  is  so  subtle  that 
it  often  escapes  notice,  but — like  air — if  it 
were  missing  there  would  be  obvious  dis- 
comfort. All  comedians  suffer  from  a  quaint 
human  practice:  The  layman  tells  the  doc- 
tor how  to  cure  the  common  cold;  he  tells 
a  professional  musician  about  his  uncle 
who  played  piccolo  for  Sousa;  he  explains 
his  hatred  of  modern  art  to  painters — and 
he  tells  jokes  to  comics.  It  is  likely  that 
Jack  has  now  heard,  in  multiple  versions, 
every  joke  perpetrated.  But  his  laughter 
rings  out  in  hearty  enjoyment  of  any  and 
every  story,  quip,  pun  or  gag  inflicted  upon 
him.  He.  looks  as  if  he  enjoyed  it,  he 
laughs  as  if  hearing  it  for  the  first  time, 
he  thanks  the  teller  as  though  this  gambit 
might  save  the  Sunday  show. 

Statistics  about  the  number  of  Maxwells 
manufactured  are  clouded  by  time  and  un- 
steady reporting,  but  they  must  have 
rolled  off  the  assembly  line  like  dough- 
nuts at  Hallowe'en.  Wherever  Jack  goes  to 
make  a  personal  appearance,  someone  has 
thought  up  the  great  gag  of  meeting  him 
at  airport  or  station  with  a  vintage  Max- 
well. Without  fail,  this  breaks  Jack  up.  He 
examines  the  relic  with  tenderness  and 
gives  every  indication  of  being  grateful  for 
the  implied  familiarity  with  his  program. 

When  he  was  on  USO  tour,  wherever  he 
went — no  matter  how  mud-choked  or  ar- 
tillery-raked the  camp — Jack  was  greeted 
by  a  convulsing  sign:  "Welcome,  Fred 
Allen."  He  never  failed  to  make  a  big  thing 
of  this  acknowledgment  of  his  long-fa- 
mous feud.  He  never  failed  to  get  in  some 
mention  of  the  sign  in  the  show. 

Jack  still  owns  and  operates  a  pretty 
good  head  of  hair,  but  no  Christmas  passes 
for  which  he  doesn't  receive  a  toupee  from 
some  local  prankster.  Such  a  gift  is 
acknowledged  with  a  correspondential 
merry-ha  ha. 

I  he  "Jack  Benny"  of  radio  and  TV 
characterization  would  seem  to  have  no 
emotional  nature  beyond  a  tender  regard 
for  his  own  ego  and  the  welfare  of  his 
wallet,  but  the  man  behind  the  mountebank 
is — in  every  sense — a  gentle-man.  In  speak- 
ing of  the  people  connected  with  his  show, 
Jack  always  refers  to  them  as  "those  who 
work  with  me" — not  "for  me."  When  meet- 
ing times  are  being  set  for  discussion  of  the 
next  show,  Jack  never  mentions  an  hour 
and  adheres  to  it  arbitrarily.  He  says, 
"What  time  would  be  good  for  you?" 

He  and  Mary  Livingstone  were  married 
in  Waukegan,  at  the  Hotel  Clayton,  on  Jan- 
nary  14,  1927.  (She  fainted  at  the  end  of  the 
ceremony,  a  fact  that  has  troubled  Jack 
ever  since.)  When  Jack  is  away  from  Mary, 
he  writes  every  day,  telephones  whenever 
possible.  In  Korea,  he  lined  up  with  the 
GIs  in  order  to  send  flowers  to  Mary,  just 
as  the  other  men  were  doing  for  their 
wives.  Sometimes  he  tells  Mary,  "For  your 
birthday,  go  buy  something  you  really 
want,"  but  usually  he  plots  her  gift  for 
weeks  in  advance,  presents  it  with  a  small 
boy's  heart-filled  grin. 

Perhaps  the  unkindest  dig  of  all  is  the 
charge  sometimes  made  that  Jack  Benny, 
outside  his  radio  personality,  is  not  an 
amusing  man.  There  has  been  an  assump- 
tion that  his  admittedly  tremendous  abili- 
ties reside  in  situations  built  up  to  a  pay- 


off. Such  phrases  as  "flawless  timing," 
"masterful  inflection,"  "an  uncanny  ear  for 
the  inner  rhythm  of  laughter,"  have  been 
tossed  off  to  explain  audience  guffaws  at 
Benny.  One  colleague  once  observed:  "The 
only  operator  to  get  more  out  of  a  'Well  . .  .' 
than  Benny  is  the  state  of  Texas." 

Now  would  seem  to  be  the  time  to  give 
you  a  happy  few  minutes  with  Jack  Benny, 
the  man  who  doesn't  need  his  writers  to 
tickle  your  ribs.  Having  been  interviewed 
by  Cleveland  Amory,  author  of  The  Proper 
Bostonian,  Mr.  Benny  made  good  use  of  the 
time  from  the  standpoint  of  both  publicity 
and  putting  a  show  together.  The  follow- 
ing Sunday,  a  comic  situation  found  Jack 
annoyed  with  Rochester  and  seeking  rea- 
sons to  rebuke  him.  "What  is  this  copy  of 
The  Proper  Bostonian  doing  next  to  the 
Kinsey  Report?"  he  wanted  to  know. 

Eddie  Cantor,  in  an  affectionate  moment, 
allowed  as  how  he'd  give  Jack  the  shirt  off 
his  back  any  old  time.  Benny's  instant  re- 
sponse, delivered  in  a  tone  of  solemn  dedi- 
cation, was:  "And  do  you  know  what  I'd 
do  for  you,  Eddie?  I'd  wash  it,  iron  it,  and 
charge  you  only  thirty-five  cents." 

Jack  still  likes  to  report  the  advice  he 
received  from  Jimmy  Durante  when  Jimmy 
heard  that  Jack  was  going  into  TV.  "Jimmy 
sounded  a  real  warning:  He  said,  'When 
youse  is  in  television,  youse  is  gotta  speak 
distinkly.'  " 

Benny  said  of  his  great  and  good  friend 
George  Burns,  "He's  the  world's  loosest 
man  with  an  insult." 

Returning  from  an  appearance  in  Van- 
couver, one  raw  spring  day,  Jack  was  hap- 
pily playing  gin  rummy  with  Don  Wilson 
when  the  plane  began  to  struggle  like  a 
Mexican  jumping  bean.  The  pilot  came 
back  to  ask  for  instructions,  saying  that 
dead  ahead  loomed  Mount  Rainier:  The 
plane  was  icing  up  and  they  were  losing 
altitude  and  something  had  gone  wrong 
with  the  radio — he  thought  they  were  off 
the  beam.  Would  it  be  all  right  if  he  set 
down  at  Corvallis? 

Many  spine-chilling  moments  later,  the 
pilot  made  a  perfect  landing  at  Corvallis, 
once  again  came  back  into  the  cabin  to 
ask  if  there  was  anything  more  he  could 
do  for  Mr.  Benny.  Very  softly,  Jack  said, 
"Yes.  Please  get  me  a  room  in  a  nice  one- 
story  hotel." 

During  one  of  Jack's  USO  tours,  he  and 
two  other  members  of  the  troupe  were 
being  jeeped  back  to  their  lodgings.  An  MP 
ordered  the  jeep  to  stop  unexpectedly — 
calling  from  a  dark  corner — and  when  the 
driver  didn't  comply  as  fast  as  the  MP 
thought  he  should,  a  fusillade  of  bullets 
whizzed  over  the  heads  of  the  jeepsters. 
Once  all  were  identified  and  the  difficulty 
straightened  out,  the  shaken  quartet 
climbed  back  into  the  jeep  just  as  a  black 
cat  strolled  across  the  street  in  front  of  the 
whitened  travelers.  "Now  he  tells  us," 
snorted  Jack. 

When  he  was  asked  by  an  interviewer  if 
he  were  a  handy  man  about  the  house,  Jack 
admitted  sorrowfully  that  he  "couldn't  push 
a  thumb  tack  into  a  bulletin  board  without 
consulting  a  carpenter." 

Well  aware  of  the  fact  that  he  isn't  sup- 
posed to  be  a  quipster,  Benny  sometimes 
uses  this  misapprehension  to  his  own  ad- 
vantage. He  said  wistfully,  one  day,  "I 
really  envy  ad-libbers  like  Bob  Hope  and 
Bing  Crosby.  They're  so  well  coordinated. 
I've  been  playing  golf  as  long  as  they  have, 
but  I  still  haven't  been  able  to  break  80." 

The  tag  line  must  be  awarded  to  Fred 
Allen,  erstwhile  airwaves  enemy  of  the 
Waukegan  Wonder.  Fred  doesn't  often 
speak  the  straight  lines,  so  he  is  doubly  im- 
pressive when  he  does  so.  Said  Mr.  Allen, 
in  his  book,  Treadmill  to  Oblivion,  "Jack 
Benny  is  the  best-liked  man  in  show  busi- 
ness." 

And  funny,  too. 


Loretta  Young — At  Heart 


(Continued  from  page  41) 
producer,  has  exactly  the  same  set  of  prin- 
ciples. In  accord,  they  have  established 
a  pattern  of  simple  constructive  scripts 
which  reach  as  many  human  situations  as 
possible.  Whether  leaving  you  with  a 
chuckle  or  a  lump  in  your  throat,  each 
story  delves  deep  into  the  heart  of  a  dilem- 
ma and,  solving  it,  the  ending  invariably 
conforms  to  the  high  standards  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Tom  Lewis. 

It  was  more  than  two  years  ago  that 
Tom  Lewis  sniffed  the  adventure-laden  air 
of  television,  looked  at  his  Academy 
Award-winning  wife  and  said,  "Let's  go, 
Ma'am!"  "Not,"  responded  his  ever-lov- 
ing wife,  "without  Norbert  Brodine,  ASC, 
man-genius  behind  the  camera."  So  the 
duet  became  a  trio,  and  Loretta  was  off 
to  absorb  the  new  medium.  Avidly  curious, 
she  threw  herself  into  learning  any  and 
everything   about  television. 

A  lesser  woman  might  have  collapsed 
under  the  demands  made  upon  her.  Be- 
cause the  story  is  different  every  week, 
Loretta  spends  much  time  with  wardrobe 
and  wig  fittings,  learning  a  new  character 
and  new  script.  Then,  too,  her  love  for 
gracious  living  was  disrupted  by  the  shoot- 
ing schedule.  Because  they  shoot  on  Wed- 
nesday, Thursday  and  Friday,  Loretta 
sleeps  at  the  studio  Tuesday,  Wednesday 
and  Thursday  nights  so  she'll  be  ready  for 
the  early  start.  Extremely  fashion-con- 
scious, she  has  long  and  careful  sessions 
with  Werle,  who  designs  her  personal 
gowns  for  television.  To  date,  Loretta  has 
portrayed  more  than  seventy  women  in 
different  walks  of  life.  Each  one  of  those 
characterizations  was  outwardly  clothed 
properly  and  in  excellent  taste.  She  leans 
heavily  on  Werle's  artistry,  personally,  but 
— since  Loretta  believes,  "You  get  out  of 
fashion  what  you  put  into  it,  just  as  you 
do  out  of  life" — the  Young  principles  of 
dress  are  as  evident  in  her  portrayals  as 
the  philosophical  ones. 

With  this  hectic  work-load,  it  would  be 
easy  to  sink  into  the  insidious  quicksand 
of  complete  concentration  on  self.  But  Lo- 
retta learned  her  lesson  about  that  very 
early,  and  has  never  forgotten  it.  She 
was  sixteen,  a  motion  picture  phenome- 
non— a  star.  She  was  quite  humanly  wal- 
lowing in  the  wages  of  success  when  she 
met  a  Jesuit  priest,  who  changed  the  whole 
course  of  her  life.  "Don't  you  know,"  said 
the  priest,  "that  God  didn't  give  you  your 
talent  just  so  you  could  glory  in  it  for  the 
gratification  of  your  ego?  It  was  given  to 
you  to  develop  for  His  glory.  You  are  in  a 
position  to  be  an  example  to  others.  You 
have  no  right  to  lead  a  selfish  personal 
life.  For — whether  you  want  it  or  not, 
Loretta — as  a  star,  you  will  be  an  example. 
You  dare  not  be  a  bad  example." 

It  was  from  this  meeting  that  Loretta's 
introspection  took  only  enough  time  to 
delve  for  truth  and  then  turn  to  an  out- 
ward interest  in  those  around  her.  Quiet- 
ly she  made  a  working  arrangement  with 
faith,  prayer,  tolerance,  graciousness,  and 
a  real  interest  in  others. 

In  her  ascendancy,  attainment  and  per- 
manent stature  as  a  shining  star  in  the 
Hollywood  heavens,  whenever  she  felt  the 
pulsing  of  personal  self  and  ego,  Loretta 
returned  to  the  knowledge  that,  before 
anything  else,  she  was  a  source  for  God's 
goodness.  "The  actor  shares  the  same 
moral  responsibility  as  his  fellow  men  and 
seeks  spiritual  guidance  with  the  same 
humility  and  the  same  faith,"  she  explains 
earnestly.  "No  person  is  truly  successful 
who  has,  in  his  material  progression,  lost 
himself  spiritually.  No  man  is  a  failure 
who  has  kept  his  sense  of  humor,  his  en- 
thusiasm,  his    devotion    to    doing    his    job 


well,  no  matter  how  humble  that  job  may 
be.  There  are  some  musts,  I  believe,  for 
those  of  us  in  this  absorbing,  fascinating 
entertainment  business.  Never  take  your- 
self too  seriously  is  one  of  my  constant 
self- admonitions.  Take  your  work  serious- 
ly— every  phase  of  it — but  never  your  all- 
too-vulnerable  self.  Study,  study,  study 
human  beings.  As  an  actress,  you  can 
never  know  too  much  about  people." 

Intertwined  with  Loretta's  personal 
philosophy  is  a  moral  conscience  which 
pervades  every  field  of  her  world:  "Just 
as  I  believe  you  should  nurture  your  love 
for  your  husband,  so  I  believe  you  should 
nurture  your  conscience.  A  conscience  is 
not  very  strong,  to  begin  with.  Its  strength 
must  be  developed,  never  neglected.  If 
you  don't  listen  to  your  conscience,  you 
can  commit  the  same  wrong  a  second  time 
and  then  the  shock  is  less,  by  far.  The 
third  time,  you  can  see  no  reason  why  the 
act  is  wrong!  Watch  your  conscience,  and 
it  will  police  your  life  magnificently. 

"I  do  not  hold  with  those  who  think  it  is 
all  right  to  do  whatever  you  want,  as  long 
as  it  doesn't  hurt  anyone.  I  think  that's 
nonsense.  There  are  very,  very  few  things 
one  can  say  or  do  that  are  without  influ- 
ence or  possible  hurt  to  someone." 

As  happily  stimulating  as  her  theory 
of  nurturing— rather  than  ignoring— con- 
science are  Loretta's  clear-headed  attitudes 
toward  anticipation  and  worry:  "I  do  not 
believe  that  anticipation  is  greater  than 
realization.  I  think  it  is  possible  to  destroy 
enjoyment  by  exaggerated  anticipation. 
You  are  living  in  the  future  when  you  an- 
ticipate greatly.  In  saying  that  one  should 
live  for  today,  I  don't  mean  that  I  believe 
in  spending  every  nickel  one  earns  as  soon 
as  it  is  earned.  There  is  a  lack  of  perspec- 
tive— and  responsibility — in  a  lack  of  thrift. 

"But,"  she  continues,  "I  do  believe  it  is 
possible  to  worry  our  lives  away  over 
trivialities.  And  one  has  to  watch  oneself 
on  that!  I  say  to  myself:  Think  of  what 
you  worried  about  last  week.  Did  you  ac- 
complish anything  by  your  worries?  And 
haven't  most  of  them  melted  away  into 
thin  air?  I  like  the  motto,  'Today  is  the 
tomorrow  you  worried  about  yesterday 
and  it  never  happened.'  I  can't  think  of  a 
single  problem  I  ever  solved  by  worrying." 

An  honored  guest  once  wrote  in  the 
Lewis  guest  book  a  summation  of  Loretta's 
thoughts  which  she  cherishes:  "Give  us 
the  strength  to  accept  with  serenity  the 
things  that  cannot  be  changed.  Give  us  the 
courage  to  change  the  things  that  can  and 
should  be  changed.  Give  us  the  wisdom 
to  distinguish  the  one  from  the  other." 

Perhaps  the  pattern  of  Loretta's  life  was 
to  learn  all  these  things  early  and  so  sure- 
ly that  they  could  not  be  lost  after  she 
entered  the  fast  frenetic  pace  of  television. 
Diving  into  a  new  medium,  uprooting  one's 
way  of  life  and  filling  one's  mind  with  a 
myriad  of  new  experiences  is  usually  the 
time  when  human  nature  overcomes  the 
divine  principles  we  live  by  when  life  is 
calm  and  balanced.  But  Loretta's  served 
her  well,  during  the  first  intricate  months 
of  mastering  television.  Then,  too — with 
Tom  part-and-parcel  of  the  ideals  and 
philosophies — there  was  little  left  to  be 
discussed  in  the  nature  of  underlying  mo- 
tivations and  good  taste  for  the  show.  Tom 
produces,  supervises  scripts,  and  carries 
the  business  end  of  the  show,  leaving  Lo- 
retta free  to  concentrate  on  her  needs  as 
an  actress.  But  her  restless  and  attentive 
mind  always  seems  to  be  exploring  all  the 
fields — cutting,  music,  sets,  and  scripts. 

Actually,  Tom  and  Loretta  do  not  sit 
around  ten  hours  a  day  discussing  their 
personal  philosophy  and  how  to  integrate 
it  into  the  show.  In  fact,  they  don't  delib- 


Why  hundreds  of 
doctors  prefer 
CUTICURA  for 


Fast  Relief  —  often 
in  7  days!  When 
you  use  Cuticura 
Soap  and  Oint- 
ment unsightly 
blackheads,  *ex- 
ternally  caused 
pimples,  flaky 
dryness,  oily 
shine  are  usually 
relieved  in  rec- 
ord time. 

See  New  Softness,  new 
freshness,   radiant  new 
complexion   tone!    Cuticura   I 
does  more  for  you  because: 
Cuticura   Soap— one   of   the    K|| 
mildest  of  all  leading  soaps     ^«^»e 
by  laboratory  test— is  super- 
fatted and  mildly  medicated  to  help  main- 
tain the  natural  moisture  and  normal  acidity 
of  the  skin.  And  emollient  Cuticura  Ointment 
softens  as  it  helps  heal.  Try  Cuticura  today! 
SEND  FOR  FREE  SOAP  sample  and      t^-^ 
leaflet  on  correct  way  to  wash     /a$|ro\ 
your  face.  Write  Cuticura,  Dept.    /ctesJSl 
TS-55,  Maiden  48,  Mass.  \PARENTSV 


(juticura 


Be  a  Hotel  Hostess 


Enjoy  Your  Work!  Fascinating  positions 
in  hotels,  motels,  clubs,  apartment  house 
projects  as  Hostess.  Executive  House- 
keeper, Manager,  etc.  Celestia  Foster 
writes:  "Am  Hostess-Housekeeper  in  a 
hotel  and  happy  in  my  work."  Write  for 
FREE  book.  "Tour  Big  Opportunity. 
Approved  for  ATX  Veteran  Training. 

LEWIS    HOTEL   TRAINING   SCHOOL 

Sta.   AE-1 18-01.   Washington   7,    D.   C.   39th   Year 


Aft* 


Every 


IAeo\... 


Brush  teeth  3  times  a  day 
—home  or  away!  Help 
prevent  tooth  decay  .  .  . 
refreshes  breath.  Carry 
toothbrush  kit  in  pocket, 
purse,  keep  in  desk. 
Ideal  for  travel.  Full-size 
folding  toothbrush, tube 
of  Pepsodent,  in  plastic 
case  ("cigarette-pack" 
size) .  At  Dept., 
Drug  stores. 
Beauty  shops. 

Tote-Brush  Inc..  Chicago  14  ^ 


SUBSCRIBE 
NOW  &  SAVE! 

GET  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 
16  MONTHS  ONLY  $3 


You  need  look.no  further 
for  the  biggest  TV  Radio 
Mirror  bargain  of  the  year. 
Here's  good  news  for  TV 
Radio  Mirror  readers.  You 
can  save  cash  on  TV  Radio 
Mirror  if  you  act  at  once. 
Although  the  regular  price 
is  25c  a  copy,  and  $3  a 
year,  you  get  a  full  year  of 
TV  Radio  Mirror  plus  4 
months  more  for  only  $3. 
Simply  send  your  name  and 
address  along  with  $3  to 
TV  Radio  Mirror  today. 
You'll  receive  16  thrilling 
months  for  $1  under  regu- 
lar prices.  We  may  never 
again  be  able  to  offer  you  such  a  tremendous  bar- 
gain due  to  the  rising  costs  of  printing,  paper  and 
postage.  So  enter  your  subscription  today.  (Offer 
good  in  U.S.A.  only.)  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42nd   Street,   New  York   17,  New  York. 

WATCHES  WANTED! 

ANY      CONDITION.       Highest      cash  J     ^^  TTT  n  /  C* 

prices    paid    promptly.    Also    broken  III   \A#    r       ^\ 

jewelry,      spectacles,      dental      gold,  •■-■  ^^     »  »    «      *** 

diamonds,       silver.       Send       articles  Dept.  T,  Holland  Bldg. 
today.    Satisfaction    guaranteed. 


kAfatse 


MAKE    S50-S60   A   WEEK 
Tou  can  learn  at  home  in  spare  time. 
Choice    of    careers :    practical    nurse, 
nursing  aide,  hospital  attendant,  infant 
nurse,  nurse-companion,  doctor's  office, 
etc.    Course   endorsed   by   physicians. 
56th  year.  Equipment  included.  Men, 
women,  18  to  60.  High  school  not  re- 
nuired.    Easy   tuition  payments.    Trial  plan.    Write   today. 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF    NURSING 
Dept.  25,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,  HI. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

A'o  m  e __ 

Vitu State Age 


MARVEL  CO.,  135TW  East  St,  New  Haven,  Conn. 


suffiBS  PSORIASIS 

(SCALY     SKIN    TROUBLE! 

MAKE  THE  ONE    4  ^    D  €  R  ITI  O  I  L 

SPOT 


ovc  it  yourself  no  matter 

,w]om;you have  suffered 
r  what  you  hftVS  tried, 
leautlful  book  on  pKorl- 
ihIh  and  Dermoil  with 
amazing  true  photo- 
graphic proof  of  re«ultn 
HHit  FKKK,  Write  for  It. 


ply 
moll. 
Hcaly 
scalp. 

report 


n't     mistake     «cz< 
the    stubborn,    U| 
barrassing     scaly 
«u*       Psoriasis.       A| 
ion-staining        Dei 
Thousand*     do     I 
ftpotn     on      body 
Grateful    UMTI    Oft*n 
yearn      of      sufTerln 
the       scale 


SEND   FOR 

GENEROUS 
TRIAL 
SIZE    > 


mil     I) 


■jy  many  doctora  and  1h  hacked  by  a 
i  .  i.iiiilU'  boncnt  In  2  wiokn  or 
n.  9«nd  10c  {hU 


>.ll    I 

pOHlllVf 

money  I"  nfundid 

Xat    nrwroua   tru.l    l*»ul 

.     t  It  f'.r  yourwalf.  KfNultH  may  hurpriitc  you 
day  f'-r  your  I«>B|    bottl*.    r.-.utlon:    Ua.  only   ;.     -Ilr.< 
nam.  plainly.  Don'tdalay.  Sold  by  Liggett  and  Walu 
■  tore*   and  othar   leading   Druggist 
>r  Static 


IK-       Spot 

Writf-to- 
•d.    IT 


•ox  392S,  Strathmoor  I 


_.    LAKE    LABORATORIES. 

Oept.   '1704,   Detroit   27.  Mich. 


erately  instill  any  of  it.  It  is  a  natural  out- 
come of  Tom's  holding  the  production  reins 
and  Loretta's  acting.  The  richness,  warmth, 
and  positive,  uplifting  belief  in  life  felt 
in  their  films  comes  from  the  Lewises'  com- 
bined searching  for  the  right  scripts  and 
the  right  presentation. 

This  part  of  Loretta,  her  beliefs  and 
philosophy,  is  not  necessarily  seen  on  the 
show  ...  it  is  only  felt.  She  is  the  ideal- 
ized picture  of  womanhood  to  millions 
across  the  nation.  Her  charm,  vivacity,  and 
graciousness  create  excitement.  Her  deli- 
cate, "fragile  as  a  flower"  appearance  is  ex- 
ceedingly deceptive.  She  is,  indeed,  a 
strong  orchid  .  .  .  abounding  in  strength 
and  vitality. 

Tom  was  once  asked  by  Greta  Garbo: 
"Where  does  Loretta  exercise  when  she's 
in  New  York?"  Tom  stared  for  a  moment 
in  amazement,  "Exercise?  My  beloved  wife 
wouldn't  walk  across  a  room  if  she  could 
get  a  ride!"  Loretta  insists  she  doesn't  need 
formal  exercise.  She  uses  up  her  bound- 
less energies  daily,  as  she  pokes,  peeks, 
and  absorbs  the  life  around  her. 

She  is  a  wonderful  human  contradiction 
.  .  .  the  epitome  of  virtues,  faults  and 
vagaries  of  womanhood.  She  loathes  prej- 
udice, gossip,  criticism,  and  inflexible 
opinions.  She  is  a  perfectionist.  Full  of  an 
insatiable  curiosity  about  people — and 
things — she  adores  dinner  by  candlelight, 
fragile  china,  heavy  crystal,  cob-webby 
linens,  old  silver,  gracious  conversation. 

Wow  in  the  throes  of  television,  she  has 
put  aside  gracious  entertaining,  except  for 
occasional  weekends  in  the  Lewis  home 
in  her  beloved  Ojai  Valley.  In  the  lovely 
wooded  valley,  with  family  and  friends, 
Loretta  savors  the  enjoyment  of  leisure 
without  a  time  clock  ticking  off  the  sec- 
onds. She  has  accepted  the  pseudo-sacred 
importance  of  time  in  her  work.  One  of 
the  world's  ten  best-dressed  women,  she 
personally  loves  hats,  her  wedding  gown, 
and  crisp  white  neckwear.  She  loves  the 
poems  of  Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning  .  .  . 
comfort,  jungle  rhythm,  and  antiques.  She 
wears  filmy  nightgowns,  ear  plugs — and 
a  sleep  mask — to  bed.  She  also  leaves  the 
earplugs  in  during  the  day  .  .  .  while  the 
household  buzzes  around  her — she  blithely 
ignores  it.  She  is  glad  she  is  a  star,  a 
woman  and  a  mother — and,  most  of  all, 
Mrs.   Tom   Lewis. 

Loretta  uses  everything  she  knows  in 
her  show.  She  will  remember  a  speech  she 
made  for  the  Variety  Club  in  Minneapolis 
five  years  ago.  Once  she  forgot  whom  to 
call  to  look  it  up,  but  she  was  right  about 
the  speech.  Her  memory  is  two-edged. 
Some  things  she  can  never  remember, 
others  she  will  never  forget. 

With  all  the  press  interviews  she  has 
given,  she  never  yet  has  learned  the  mean- 
ing of  that  precious  word  (to  the  writer) 
"anecdote" — a  little  story  from  the  past 
that  takes  on  the  color  of  the  speaker.  One 
day,  her  friend  and  public  relations  coun- 
selor, Helen  Ferguson,  set  up  a  mass  in- 
terview with  high  school  reporters.  Loretta 
was  surrounded  by  eager  novices,  ques- 
tioning, probing  and  touching.  Finally  she 
broke  away  from  the  group,  sailed  across 
the  room  with  a  studious  little  boy  clutch- 
ing her  hand.  In  complete  innocence,  Lo- 
retta sped  up  to  Helen  and  said,  "Helen, 
you'll  have  to  go  to  work.  This  reporter 
wants  an  antidote."  Helen  looked  at  her 
with  a  knowing  smile  and,  turning  to  the 
boy,  she  said:  "You  have  your  anecdote. 
The  brilliant  star  of  stage,  screen  and 
television,  Miss  Loretta  Young,  does  not 
know  the  difference  between  an  anecdote 
and  an  antidote.  And  you  may  quote  me." 

Both  Tom  and  Loretta  are  constantly  on 
the  lookout  for  simple  human  dramas  to 
be  translated  into  scripts.  One  day,  Tom 
overheard  their  children  talking  about  a 
Cub  Scout  who  had  lost  a  precious  rating 


because  his  parents  hadn't  attended  a  fam- 
ily night  meeting.  The  simple  drama  of 
careless  parents  and  a  heartbroken  boy 
became  the  basis  for  one  of  their  most 
successful  scripts.  Entertainment-wise,  it 
met  with  a  sensational  reaction.  In  a  good- 
will move  that  will  do  a  lot  of  good,  the 
Procter  and  Gamble  Company  (the  spon- 
sors) removed  their  commercial  and  fur- 
nished sixty -eight  prints  of  the  film  to  Cub 
Scout  headquarters  for  distribution 
throughout  the  country.  It  touched  per- 
haps untold  numbers  of  parents  and  chil- 
dren with  a  bit  more  tolerance  and  under- 
standing  of   one    another's    problems. 

The  thrill  of  personal  reaction  to  the 
story  lines  has  come  to  Tom  and  Loretta 
many  times.  The  Christmas  Eve  story  of 
the  poorhouse,  where  the  children  were 
taken  care  of  but  the  aged  forgotten, 
brought  a  spontaneous  response.  People  in 
three  different  communities  worked  to  put 
television  sets  in  the  recreation  rooms  of 
the  county  homes  for  old  people.  The  story 
and  the  entertainment  values  were  brilliant 
.  .  .  not  one  of  the  viewers  need  have  gone 
past  the  satisfaction  of  enjoying  good 
drama.  But  the  underlying  theme,  "Lest 
we  forget,"  captures  the  best  in  every 
audience. 

"The  greatest  way  to  use  my  personal 
philosophy,"  says  Loretta,  "is  in  playing 
women  from  all  walks  of  life  and  adapting 
it  within  the  character  I'm  playing." 
Among  others,  Loretta  has  played  a  woman 
doctor  solving  a  murder  mystery,  a  pub- 
licity girl  for  a  resort  (the  script  did  not 
call  for  her  to  ask  anyone  for  an  "anti- 
dote"), a  woman  having  a  nervous  break- 
down, a  woman  who  believed  in  Aladdin's 
Lamp,  a  girl  on  a  jury,  a  G'rl  Scout  lead- 
er, a  school  teacher,  a  dancer,  pianist 
Clara  Schumann,  a  dying  wife,  an  old 
maid,  and  a  pickpocket. 

Loretta  has  managed  to  submerge  her- 
self, through  serious  study  of  each  wom- 
an's outlook  on  life.  Embracing  the 
characterization  completely,  she  becomes 
the  woman  she  portrays.  Consistently, 
however,  each  role  conveys  an  intangible 
aura  of  Loretta's  personal  philosophy.  For 
she  believes  that,  in  every  walk  of  life, 
the  basic  tenets  are  the  same:  "Maybe  you 
are  richer  or  poorer,  younger  or  older  than 
I  am.  But  one  thing  we  share:  No  one  is 
ever  too  rich  or  too  poor,  too  old  or  too 
young,  to  pray." 

Prayer  and  faith  are  the  nuclei  of  the 
inner-  and  outer-personality  known  as  Lo- 
retta Young,  which  is  spelled  out  in  every 
gesture,  expression  or  utterance  you  see 
weekly  on  your  television  set.  That  inner 
radiance  is  as  much  a  part  of  the  actress 
as  the  woman.  "I  believe  in  living  the 
eternal  now,  doing  now — not  the  things  we 
want  to  do — but  the  things  that  we  know 
are  the  right  things  to  do.  I  believe  that, 
to  succeed  in  business,  and  as  human  be- 
ings, we  must  do  the  best  we  can  each  day. 
Be  as  kind  as  we  possibly  can  to  each 
other." 

Loretta  lives  each  day  as  fully  as  time 
allows.  Kipling,  not  knowing  that  the 
world  would  take  on  the  harried,  hurried 
time  clock  as  a  boss — nor  that  television 
would  stretch  the  twenty-four-hour  day  to 
bursting — showed  remarkable  foresight  in 
his  poem,  "If."  He  could  have  written  it 
for  Loretta: 

"If  you  can  fill  the  unforgiving  minute 

With  sixty  seconds'  worth  of  distance 
run, 

Yours    is    the    Earth    and    everything 
that's  in  it  .  .  ." 

And  Loretta,  capturing  those  sixty  sec- 
onds with  complete  awareness  of  their 
meaning,  living  richly  from  her  full  ex- 
perience, looking  outward  for  fulfillment 
of  her  personal  philosophy,  will  always  be 
Young — by  name  and  by  nature — heart 
and  soul. 


"Q"  Is  For  Quality 


(Continued  from  page  73) 
who  had  picked  her  at  that  audition  and 
exposed  her  to  a  nation-wide  audience  on 
the  CBS  Radio  and  TV  Network.  And  it 
was  Bob  who  gave  Jaye  her  chance  to  do 
more  than  just  vocalize.  He  encouraged 
her  to  be  herself,  so  that  Jaye's  person- 
ality belted  out  as  happily  as  her  songs — 
and  everyone  loved  her.  A  year  ago,  when 
she  flew  to  Hollywood  to  marry  Michael 
Baiano,  Bob  had  talked  about  it  so  much 
on  the  air  that  the  private  little  cere- 
mony was  practically  a  national  event. 

As  Jaye's  popularity  grew,  however,  she 
began  receiving  offers  for  outside  engage- 
ments. Bob  gave  her  time  off  from  the 
show.  He  was  trying  to  further  her  career, 
not  monopolize  it.  But  this  year,  when 
too  many  offers  came  pouring  in — and  all 
too  attractive  to  resist — Lewis  encouraged 
Jaye  to  further  her  career  to  the  fullest, 
even  though  it  meant  losing  her  services. 
Her  appearances  on  his  radio  and  TV  pro- 
grams, all  emanating  from  New  York, 
prevented  her  from  accepting  vaudeville 
and  supper-club  engagements  in  Holly- 
wood, Las  Vegas,  and  Chicago. 

And  she  goes  with  Bob's  blessings.  He 
may  have  built  up  a  star  attraction,  only 
to  lose  her.  But  any  regrets  on  his  part 
are  personal,  Bob's  family  is  very  real  to 
him,  and  he  will  miss  Jaye  very  much. 
Professionally,  however,  he  is  delighted. 

"It  proves  I've  got  good  talent,"  he  says. 
His  early  faith  in  Jaye  is  more  than  justi- 
fied, and  the  kick  he  gets  out  of  seeing 
one  of  his  "family"  get  ahead  is  very 
genuine.  But  there's  more  to  it  than  that. 
You  can  tell  by  the  look  of  happy  excite- 
ment, like  a  kid  let  loose  in  a  toy  shop. 
Now  Bob  could  go  out  and  discover  a 
brand-new  singer,  and  maybe  make  a  star 
out  of  her  .... 

In  spite  of  the  many  stars  Bob  has  dis- 
covered, he  doesn't  think  of  himself  as  a 
scout  for  talent.  Actually,  he  is  a  de- 
veloper of  talent.     He  helps  bring  it  out. 

"I  guess  I've  got  a  Pygmalion  complex," 
he  admits. 

According  to  legend,  however,  Pyg- 
malion was  a  king  of  Old  Cyprus  who  cre- 
ated a  statue,  fell  in  love  with  it  and  made 
it  come  to  life.  Or,  in  the  popular  play — 
later  a  movie — by  George  Bernard  Shaw, 
"Pygmalion"  is  the  man  who  takes  a 
Cockney  flower  girl  and  makes  her  into  a 
lady  of  high  fashion — and  also  falls  in 
love  with  her. 

Bob,  too,  has  brought  performers  to 
life,  and  sometimes  he  has  made  them  over. 
The  one  difference  is — Bob  doesn't  fall  in 
love  with  his  discoveries  after  they'-re 
transformed.  He's  in  love  with  them  to 
begin  with — with  a  deep  respect  for  their 
talent,  and  a  feeling  for  their  real  person- 
alities as  opposed  to  the  "stage  manner" 
they  may  have  picked  up  along  the  way. 
That's  why,  on  Bob's  show,  everyone  is 
"allowed  to  express  himself."  He  tells  the 
cast:  "If  you  feel  like  saying  something  on 
the  show,  say  it." 

And  so  Lois  Hunt  and  Earl  Wrightson 
have  had  a  chance  to  exhibit  their  warm, 
friendly  personalities  as  well  as  their  ap- 
pealing voices.  Lee  Vines  has  been  trans- 
formed   from   a    straight    announcer    to    a 


singer,  dancer,  comedian,  and  impersona- 
tor of  Liberace.  As  for  Ray  Bloch — "Well, 
it's  an  old  tradition  in  show  business,"  Bob 
says,  "to  poke  fun  at  the  orchestra  leader. 
We  do  that,  too,  but  I  think  we've  shown 
people  more  of  Ray  than  they've  ever  seen 
before — not  only  his  singing,  dancing  and 
clowning,  but  his  serious  side,  too." 

In  the  case  of  Don  Liberto,  who  had  pre- 
viously been  known  only  as  a  dancer,  Bob 
was  equally  impressed  by  his  singing.  "He 
has  some  of  the  same  quality  Eddie  Fisher 
has."  So  Don  sings  as  well  as  dances  on 
the  TV  show.  Bob  even  used  him  as  a 
singer  on  the  Saturday  morning  radio  show 
to  replace  Jaye  P.  during  some  of  her 
absences. 

Since  appearing  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show,  the  Chordettes  have  come  up  with 
their  fabulously  successful  recording  of 
"Mr.  Sandman,"  and  Lois  Hunt  has  re- 
alized her  ambition  to  be  an  opera  star. 
When  she  was  invited  to  sing  "La  Travi- 
ata"  in  Philadelphia,  Bob  plugged  her  ap- 
pearance so  faithfully  on  his  programs  that 
the  Philadelphia  Opera  House  found  itself 
sold  out  for  the  first  time  in  years.  And, 
when  this  engagement  led  to  her  appear- 
ance at  the  City  Center  Opera  Company  in 
New  York,  Bob  started  in  plugging  as  soon 
as  he  heard  the  news. 

If  Bob  has  a  special  talent  for  developing 
other  people's  talent,  it  lies  in  his  un- 
canny ability  to  make  the  public  see  what 
he  sees  and  share  his  enthusiasm.  He  can 
not  only  stir  up  excitement  about  a  promis- 
ing newcomer  but  revive  interest  in  an  old- 
timer  he  feels  shouldn't  be  neglected.  Even 
in  his  early  days  on  radio,  back  on  Station 
WHN,  Bob  was  able  to  keep  plugging  an 
old  record — Ted  Weem's  "Heartaches" 
— until  it  became  a  national  best-seller. 
And  several  years  ago,  CBS  built  a  special 
program — The  Show  Goes  On — around 
Bob's  special  abilities  to  develop  other 
people's  abilities. 

Tony  Bennett,  the  singer,  got  his  start 
on  this  show.  Other  performers  who  have 
been  boosted  on  the  way  to  stardom  by 
"exposure"  on  Bob's  radio  and  TV  shows 
include  Rosemary  Clooney,  the  Ames 
Brothers  and,  just  recently,  Norman 
Brooks  ("he  sings  similar  to  Jolson")  who 
is  now  under  contract  to  Twentieth  Cen- 
tury-Fox. 

According  to  Bob:  "The  public  is  always 
ready  to  accept  something  new — something 
fresh  and  different.  There  aren't  enough 
people  in  show  business  ready  to  give  this 
young  talent  a  break." 

If  Bob  is  so  particularly  ready,  it's  be- 
cause he  genuinely  enjoys  it.  This  is  his 
idea  of  fun — helping  others  to  succeed  in 
the  business  he  likes  best — show  business! 
And,  though  Bob  would  be  the  last  one 
to  point  out  a  moral  in  all  this,  it's  there 
nonetheless.  Something  about  the  man 
who  cast  his  bread  upon  the  waters  and 
had  it  returned  to  him.  .  .  . 

By  helping  others,  Bob  has  found  him- 
self with  a  steadily  mounting  popularity, 
the  most  loyal  fans  in  the  business,  a  full 
schedule  of  sponsors,  and  your  votes  for 
the  best  daytime  comedy  shows  on  both 
radio  and  TV! 


ROBERT'S   SO    RIGHT! 

about  Wrightson,  that  is  .  .  .  read  all  about  the  elegant  Earl  of  the  Robert 
Q.  Lewis  shows  in  the  next  month's  big  issue  .  .  .  the  same  issue  with  all  those 
colorful  pictures  and  anecdotes  about  Sid  Caesar  and  his  comedy  crew  .  .  . 

June  TV  RADIO  MIRROR    •    on  sale  May  5 


get 


/F  YOU  SUFFER 

OJtIAf    of  HEADACHE 
mnmmw  NEURALGIA 

NEURITIS 


with 


the  way  thousands  of 

physicians  and  dentists  recommend. 
HERB'S  WHY  .  .  .  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's 
prescription.  That  is,  Anacin  contains  not 
just  one  but  a  combination  of  medically 
proved  active  ingredients.  No  other  product 
gives  faster,  longer-lasting  relief  from  pain 
of  headache,  neuralgia,  neuritis  than  Anacin 
tablet;.  Buy  Anacin®  today  I 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 


A  few  drops  of  OUTGEO  ©bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  ingrown  nail.  OUTGRO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OUTGRO  is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain —Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

Now  this  new  healing  substance  is  offered 
in  ointment  form  under  the  name  of 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  stores 
—money  back  guarantee,  *Beg.  u.  s.  Pat.  Off. 


PESTROY/^rT^/FOREVER 


'  Only  by  KILLING  THE  HAIR  ROOT  con  you  be  % 

f  UNWANTED  HAIR  is  GONE  FOREVER.  Brings  relief  i 

f  and  social  happiness.  Do  not  use  our  method  until  g 

f  you  have  reod  our  instruction  book  carefully  and  i 

■ned  to  use  the  MAHLER  METHOD  safety  and  i 

f  efficiently.  Used  successfully  over  fifty  years.     ^ — JjL..*^ 

,    BEAUTY  \ 
LFOR  YOU 'J 


Send  Sc TODAY  for  booklet 


MAHLER'S.  INC      Dept  59-F         PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I. 


Wash  New  LIFE  into 
Your  Hair  SAFELY! 

Special  Shampoo  for 

Blondes  Brings  Out 

Shining,  Radiant  Color! 

Mothers  and  daughters  stay  young  together  when  sunny, 
golden  curls  are  gloriously  lovely!  Now,  without  tints,  rinses 
or  ugly  bleached  look,  give  your  hair  that  radiant  blonde 
color.  BLONDEX,  the  new  ll-minute'creamy'rioine  shampoo, 
instantly  removes  dingy  film  that  makes  hair  dark.  Washes 
blonde  hair  shades  lighter.  Gives  it  lovely  lustre,  lightness 
and  shine.  Safe  for  children's  delicate  hair.  Get  BLONDEX 
today  at  any  I0<,  drug  or  department  store. 


105 


Callouses,  Tenderness,  Pain, 
Burning  at  Ball  of  Foot? 


Ball-ofoot 

Cushion 


LOOPS  OVER  TOE  ^ 

QUICK  RELIEF 
BEYOND  BELIEF! 

Mode  of  soft  LATEX 
FOAM  and  NYLON 

You  Actually  WALK 
ON  CUSHIONS! 

It's  entirely  NEW!  Never  before  anything  like  it 
for  relieving  painful  callouses,  tenderness,  burning 
at  ball  of  foot!  The  cushion — not  you — absorbs 
shock  of  each  step.  Dr.  Scholl's  BALL-O-FOOT 
Cushion  loops  over  toe.  No  adhesive.  Flesh  color. 
Washable.  Worn  invisibly.  $1.00  pair  at  Drug,  Shoe, 
Dept.,  5-10)!  Stores  and  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort* 
Shops.  If  not  obtainable  locally,  order  direct,  enclos- 
ing $1.00  and  state  if  for  woman  or  man. 
DB.  SCHOLL'S,  INC.,  Dept.  57B,   Chicago   10,  III. 

MAKE  BIG  MONEY! 

Write  today  for  FREE  plan  which  shows  you 
how  to  make  big  money  in  your  spare  time. 
All  you  do  is  help  us  take  orders  for  maga- 
zine subscriptions.  No  experience  needed. 
Send  name  and  address  today.  There  is  no 
obligation. 

MACFADDEN   PUBLICATIONS 
205  East  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17.  N.  Y. 


Cash  In  On  EVERY  Occasion  With  Exclusive 

GREETING  CARD  GALLERY 


Make  big  profits  all  year  from  complete  selec- 
tion of  individual  Deluxe  cards.  For  Sister  s 
Brother's.  Son's.  Daughter's  Birthdays,  etc..  Mother 
Day  Father'BDay;  cards  tor  every  occasion.  ^e"° 
phine  wrapped  cards  in  Handy  Trial  GALLERY  sell 
on  sinht.  Nothing  like  il  ever  offered  before!  Also  nest- 
Bcllintr  SI  Assortments.  Stationery.  Gifts.  Bargain  Spe- 
cials. Profits  to  100%.  Get  free  details  on  Gallery. 
Assortments  on  approval.  Act  now.  "      " 

MIDWEST  CARD  CO.,1113WashlngtonAve.,Dpt.W35,  St.Loulsl.Mo. 


if? 


The  Greatest  Talent  Scout  of  All 


"B0TT0MS-UP"     PSeapPe&r    SET    ONLY 

Pert  and  saucv.  and  Just  cute  cnougTi  to  shock      %  ffl  Q 
your  malfU-n  aunt.  Shapely  figure  leans  over  a     <«JVa 
barrel  with  her  head  rc-stlriK  <>n  top.    Use  her 
as  a  handle  while  one  barrr-I  pours  salt;  the  other  pepper. 
Klrhly  hand-painted  ceramic  in  nature's  colors  and  attire. 
Each  barrel  holds  a   liberal  quantity  of  salt  and  pepper, 

SATISFACTION    GUARANTEED    OR    MONEY    BACK 
Add    1  5c  to  each  sot  ordered,  for  postage  and  handling. 
No  C.O.D.'     please. 
Dobbs    Products    Co.,  900  W.  Lake  St.,  Dept.  364,  Chicago  7,  HI. 


I 


106 


Want  to  Get  Rid  of 

Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 

Freckles,  Skin  Spots' 


Famous  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

Jolt  follow  the  amazing  Mercolized  Wax 

-  NIGHT  PL  AN  toil  whiter,  Bolter, 

lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurioun  Mer- 

coli/.eil   Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arm* 

jUHt  before  retiring  each  nijfht  for  one  week. 

You'll  begin  to  lee  reHultH  almoBt 

nt  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  nkin, 

blotches,    pots,  frecklea  as  if  by 

magic!  Thw  is  not  a  cover  up  cob- 

I II      'I  Wax  Cream 

workH  UNDKK  the  Hkin  Burfaco. 

Beautiful  women  have  uied  thin 

ted  plan  for  over  40  yearn  —  you'll 

love  it'll  fast.  Bare,  longer  lasting  results! 

'.!■  r.  '.li/.-d  Wax  Cream  m  nohlon  lull' ; guar- 

I]    money  hack.     Html  u ling  It    now! 

MERCOLIZED   WAX   CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Uetitentdark 
thin  and  urjy 
tpoli  almotl 
nretnlcht. 


(Continued  from  page  38) 
some  had  carved  handles,  some  had  sequin 
borders.  For  fly-killing,  the  Godfrey  office 
was  equipped  like  an  armory — but  fly 
swatters  are  the  merest  fraction  of  God- 
frey's fan  mail. 

Every  day,  more  than  a  thousand  letters 
(two  thousand  on  some  days)  come  into 
his  office.  In  the  return  mail,  Arthur  re- 
plies with  autographed  pictures,  get-well 
cards,  congratulatory  messages  to  newly- 
weds,  greetings  to  people  celebrating 
birthdays  and  anniversaries,  gifts  to  hospi- 
talized veterans  and  children,  and  flowers 
to  someone's  sick  grandmother.  Every 
piece  of  mail  gets  an  appropriate  answer — 
even  harsh  criticism  gets  a  polite  thank- 
you  card.  It's  a  tremendous  task.  Fabu- 
lous.  But  it  happens  every  day. 

Since  Arthur  Godfrey  refuses  to  brag  or 
discuss  figures,  you  go  to  his  accountant — 
who  has  to  record  expenses  for  legal  rea- 
sons— and  you  learn  that,  each  year,  Ar- 
thur Godfrey  spends  fifty  thousand  dollars, 
just  answering  mail.  (This  covers  stamps 
and  pictures  and  greeting  cards.)  But  get 
this  straight:  No  one  tells  Arthur  he  has 
to  spend  it.  And,  after  all,  with  fifty  thou- 
sand, you  could  buy  enough  fertilizer  to 
cover  his  Virginia  farm  and  the  west  side 
of  the  Blue  Ridge  mountains. 

"When  you  see  the  mail,  you  begin  to 
understand  why  Arthur  values  it,"  says 
Doreen  Partin.  Doreen  has  worked  for 
Arthur  seven  years  and  is  his  office  man- 
ager. "It's  not  quantity,"  she  explains,  "but 
the  kind  of  mail.  Whether  a  letter  is  chatty 
or  critical  or  flattering,  there  is  the  feeling 
of  intimacy  and  trust.  Arthur  is  'one  of 
the  family,'  and  that's  the  way  the  letters 
sound.  They're  often  addressed:  'Dear  sir' 
or  'Dear  Mr.  Godfrey.'  Usually,  however, 
it's:    'Dear  Arthur.' " 

They  are  not  simply  I-like-you  or  I- 
hate-you  letters.  A  parent  writes  a  friendly 
note  about  the  family  and  encloses  a  pic- 
ture of  her  children.  A  man  in  mourning 
writes  that  it  was  Arthur  who  brought 
his  mother  joy  and  relief  from  pain  in  her 
last  few  weeks  of  suffering.  A  little  boy 
(Robert  Hughes  of  Bangor,  Maine,  in  this 
case)  sends  Arthur  a  joke  for  his  show, 
"If  you  had  two  ducks  and  one  cow,  what 
could  you  have  to  eat?"  Answer:  "Quack  - 
ers  and  milk." 

And  gifts  come  in — 57,000  varieties  of 
them:  Rattlesnakes  and  tea-bag  tweezers, 
bird  whistles  and  tie  pins  and  animal  cakes 
(a  life-size  animal  cracker).  Several  truck- 
ing companies  sent  Arthur  a  cute  trinket — 
a  life-size  Cadillac.  But  this  gift  was  no 
more  thoughtful  than  that  of  a  child  who 
had  seen  Arthur  snap  a  ukelele  string  and 
immediately  mailed  him  a  new  one. 

One  of  Doreen  Partin's  assistants,  Eleanor 
Ungar,  has  the  job  of  opening  packages  all 
to  herself.  She  does  this  with  care — so  that 
Arthur  will  know  exactly  who  sent  what — 
and  also  with  caution,  for  she  does  not  like 
snakes.  Eleanor  is  a  young  lady  who  is 
not  easily  surprised,  for  she  has  "had  it." 
Here  is  a  sampling  of  what  she  has  found 
inside  packages:  Ducks,  a  crate  of  worms, 
back-scratchers,  ties,  cufflinks,  a  50-pound 
package  of  licorice,  doilies,  powdered  milk, 
Bibles,  wallets,  toads,  deer  antlers,  mocca- 
sins, orchids,  sink  traps,  a  dead  mouse, 
ashtrays,  and  hominy  from  Alabama. 

Because  Arthur  talks  a  lot  about  Lipton 
Tea,  he  gets  quantities  of  items  and  inven- 
tions connected  with  tea:  Cups,  spoons, 
tea-bag  resters  to  relax  a  used  or  retired 
tea  bag — even  tweezers,  in  case  your  string 
slips  into  the  hot  water  and  you  have  to  go 
fishing.  And  because  of  one  of  his  other 
sponsors,  Arthur  receives  many  a  lock  of 
hair  with  the  request  that  he  advise  which 


Toni  product  he  would  recommend.  Of 
course,  a  lot  of  boxes — such  as  games  and 
books — come  from  manufacturers  who 
hope  to  intrigue  Arthur  into  a  free  "plug." 
All  of  these  are  sorted  out  and  re-shipped 
to  charitable  institutions  and  similar  or- 
ganizations. 

"Then  there  was  the  day  the  quail  ar- 
rived," Doreen  says,  "and  I  didn't  know 
what  to  do  with  them,  and  Arthur  wasn't 
here.  All  I  knew  about  quail  was  that 
they  taste  like  chicken,  so  I  went  to  see 
one  of  our  writers  who  is  from  Ohio — I  fig- 
gured  he  should  know  about  quail.  'Do 
they  fly?'  I  asked  him.  And  he  said,  'I 
don't  think  so.'  Then  I  opened  the  box — 
and  they  flew.  They  were  all  over  the 
office  for  an  hour." 

Arthur  has  to  be  extra  careful  of  what 
he  says  at  any  time.  There  was  the  day 
he  mentioned  piccalilli,  said  he  hadn't 
tasted  the  old-fashioned  kind  in  years.  He 
got  piccalilli — pails  of  it.  He  didn't  men- 
tion corset-type  binders  for  Tony  Marvin 
but  they  came,  anyway — as  a  gag.  One 
morning,  Arthur  complained  mildly  about 
the  way  the  curtain  stuck  to  him  under 
a  shower.  So  five  manufacturers  offered 
to  build  him  a  glass-enclosed  shower — 
and  women  sent  in  weights  by  the  pound. 

While  there  is  much  fun  in  the  letters 
and  packages,  there  is  heartbreak  in  some 
of  the  mail.  Just  as  parents  write  with 
pride  about  Junior,  they  also  unload  fam- 
ily worries.  Because  Arthur  does  not  ex- 
ploit charity,  few  people  are  aware  of  how 
thoughtful  and  helpful  he  is. 

You  will  find  in  the  files  kept  by  Doreen 
and  her  assistants  many  letters  of  grati- 
tude from  institutions  and  individuals  he 
has  helped.  You  won't  find  many  hun- 
dreds of  such  letters,  for  they  keep  only 
the  recent  ones.  No  effort  has  ever  been 
made  to  record  or  publicize  the  good  work 
that  is  done.  In  the  Godfrey  office,  it  is 
a  matter  of  routine — it  is  done  because  it 
is  the  right  thing.  And  so  the  letters  in 
the  file  are  a  haphazard  collection.  A 
director  of  an  orphanage  wrote,  for  ex- 
ample, "I  think  you  might  be  interested 
in  an  incident  here.  The  Queen  of  Greece 
expressed  to  Mrs.  Eleanor  Roosevelt  the 
desire  to  visit  us,  since  one  of  her  friends 
had  visited  us  a  year  ago.  We  told  our 
children  that  Mrs.  Roosevelt  was  coming 
with  a  very  important  visitor — who  was 
to  be  a  surprise — and  we  wanted  them  to 
be  very  quiet  and  well-behaved.  When 
the  Queen  had  left,  we  learned  they  had 
been  disappointed,  and  why:  When  told 
someone  very  important  was  coming  they 
all  expected  to  see  Arthur  Godfrey."  Ar- 
thur has  become  very  important  to  these 
children  through  the  many  packages  he 
has  sent  them. 

Arthur's  interest — active  interest — in 
children  is  perhaps  unparalleled  in  show 
business.  Various  communities  through- 
out the  country  know  from  local  papers 
about  a  hospitalized  child  receiving  an 
unexpected  phone  call  or  flowers  or  a  toy 
from  Arthur.  No  one  keeps  record  of 
these  acts,  and  no  one  sends  out  publicity 
stories.  Frequently  Arthur's  personal 
secretary  is  the  only  one  who  has  knowl- 
edge of  them. 

This  past  fall,  Mrs.  Lilli  Lewis,  of  New- 
port News,  Virginia,  had  a  phone  call  from 
a  man  she  had  never  met  before.  It  was 
Arthur.  He  had  heard  that  her  son  was 
very  ill  with  leukemia.  At  the  end  of  the 
call,  he  asked  if  he  could  send  the  boy  a 
gift.  His  mother  said  he  had  been  ask- 
ing for  a  paint  set.  It  took  a  couple  of 
days  for  the  paint  set  to  arrive,  but  the 
lad  had  flowers  from  Arthur  that  same 
afternoon. 


Another  woman,  in  the  Midwest,  had 
written  Arthur  about  her  twelve-year-old 
son,  who  had  given  up  and  would 
not  walk  after  an  operation  on  his  legs. 
For  six  years  prior  to  the  operation,  he 
had  worn  heavy  braces.  His  mother 
wrote  Arthur,  and  Arthur  wrote  the  boy. 
And  this  was  the  result,  in  her  own  words: 
"Even  though  you're  busy,  Arthur,  you 
took  time  to  write  this  little  boy  who 
loves  you  so  dearly.  Everyone  who  came 
to  the  house  had  to  see  this  cherished 
letter.  In  fact,  he  had  to  show  it  so  many 
times  that  one  of  the  men  who  work  in 
the  office  for  his  daddy  had  the  letter 
framed  in  order  to  hold  the  pieces  to- 
gether. But  that  isn't  all.  Just  because 
you  took  a  few  minutes  of  your  precious 
time,  Bob  decided  he  was  going  to  walk. 
And  that  is  just  what  he  did.  He  does  a 
beautiful  job  of  walking  now,  without 
braces.  There  just  aren't  words  enough 
to  say  how  I  feel  about  you,  Arthur,  and 
this  miracle.  .  .  ." 

It's  not  exactly  a  secret.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  isn't  advertised  that  Arthur  sends 
out  two  different  pictures.  One  is  a  por- 
trait, and  the  other  is  a  picture  of  Arthur 
on  horseback.  Of  course,  you  can  have 
your  choice  and  it's  all  for  free.  But  Mr. 
Godfrey,  with  a  few  kids  of  his  own,  has 
an  understanding  of  the  way  little  boys' 
minds  work,  so  it's  not  surprising  that 
youngsters  get  a  picture  of  Arthur  on  a 
horse.  The  effect  is  devastating.  Here's  a 
letter  to  Arthur,  headed  "Private — Keep 
Out": 

"Dear  Mr.  Godfrey,  This  medal  isn't 
new.  I  got  it  the  day  I  served  my  first 
Mass  and  I  have  worn  it  ever  since.  I 
shined  it  up  for  you.  It  is  a  blessed  medal 
and  it  will  help  to  protect  you.  It  is  the 
best  thing  I've  pot  and  I  love  it,  so  it's  the 
only  thing  that  I've  got  that's  good  enough 
to  give  to  my  friend.  And  you  are  my 
friend,  cos  I  got  a  picture  that  you  wrote 
my  own  name  on,  to  prove  it.  Boy,  was 
I  happy  today  when  I  got  that  picture. 
But  you  should  have  kept  the  one  dollar 
and  eleven  cents,  cos  I  know  pictures  and 
stamps  cost  lots  of  money.  .  .  ."  Later,  in 
closing,  Georgie  Kelsch  of  Norfolk,  Vir- 
ginia, notes  that  he  will  send  the  returned 
dollar  and  eleven  cents  to  Walter  Win- 
chell,  to  help  fight  cancer.  Then,  "Thanks 
forty-eleven  times  for  being  such  a  good 
man.  I  will  always  remember  you  when 
I  say  my  prayers." 

Wot  all  letters  of  gratitude  come  from 
children  or  their  parents.  An  American 
officer  in  Korea,  for  one,  sent  Arthur 
twenty-five  dollars  and  asked  him  to  buy 
a  Christmas  gift  for  his  stateside  wife.  This 
was  done  and  the  officer  reported,  with  a 
thank-you  letter,  that  his  wife  was  quite 
pleased.  And — if  you  happen  to  drive  by 
a  veterans'  hospital  and  hear  some  ukes 
being  strummed  on  a  balcony — chances 
are  that  they  got  there  via  Arthur.  Regu- 
larly, he  sends  ukes  and  books  and  games 
to  servicemen  and  veterans. 

Some  mail  is  tough  to  answer.  Occa- 
sionally a  woman  sends  in  her  picture,  an- 
nounces she  is  looking  for  a  husband— 
and  so  will  someone  please  "take  a  good 
look  at  the  snapshot  and  tell  me  what's 
wrong  with  me."  It  ain't  easy.  And  there 
are  people  who  have  asked  to  honeymoon 
on  Arthur's  farm  and  others  who  have 
asked  if  they  can't  bold  their  annual  con- 
ventions there.  (Arthur's  farm  just  doesn't 
have  the  special  facilities  for  such  gath- 
erings.) 

Arthur  is  particularly  attentive  to  criti- 
cism from  his  audience,  and  some  of  the 
criticisms  are  unusual.  There  was  one 
woman  who  passionately  bawled  out  Ar- 
thur for  making  fun  of  the  handicapped. 
Arthur,  who  is  also  handicapped,  was 
shocked    and    puzzled    by    the    letter,    and 


read  through  the  lengthy  pages  trying  to 
find  out  what  she  was  driving  at.  Finally, 
he  learned  that  the  woman's  brother  was 
cross-eyed  and  she  had  been  upset  when 
Marion  Marlowe  sang  a  number  titled, 
"I'm   a  Cockeyed   Optimist." 

There  was  the  day  Arthur  saw  some 
advertising  copy  about  a  bra — featuring 
"four  freedoms."  Arthur,  who  collects 
scalps  of  advertising  men,  went  after  some 
laughs.  A  couple  of  listeners  thought  he 
was  desecrating  the  memory  of  Franklin 
D.  Roosevelt.  (Anyone  who  knows  Ar- 
thur knows  that  he  worshipped  FDR.  Ed 
Murrow's  album,  Hear  It  Now,  records 
Arthur  weeping  at  the  funeral  procession.) 

Arthur  has  a  lovely,  personable  crew 
working  on  his  mail  and,  when  you  meet 
the  six  girls,  you  begin  to  realize  the 
"Godfrey  family"  is  larger  than  those  you 
see  on  television.  You  find  the  same  feel- 
ing of  good  will  and  enthusiasm  back  in 
the  office  that  you  find  among  those  in  the 
studio. 

Alison  Bartlett  is  a  tall,  attractive 
blonde  who  worked  with  cancer  research 
before  joining  the  Godfrey  office:  "That 
was  like  coming  from  a  world  of  pessimism 
to  a  world  of  optimism.  We  get  a  lot  of 
fun  out  of  this  work  and  I  don't  mean  just 
laughs.  It's  fun  to  be  doing  something 
constructive — doing  good  for  lonely  people 
and  convalescents." 

And  there  is  Ann  Kirkland,  another 
blonde  and  a  cute  one,  who  picks  up  the 
telephone  while  Arthur  is  on  the  air.  Dur- 
ing broadcast  time,  a  hundred  calls  will 
come  in  on  "quiet"  days — and  half  of 
them  will   be  long-distance. 

"Some  people  want  to  ask  Arthur  to  a 
christening,"  Ann  explains,  "and  others 
have  a  new  joke  for  Arthur  and  they  get 
hysterical  trying   to   tell  me   the   ending." 

And  there  is  Jean  Eger,  also  blonde  and 
similarly  cute,  who  also  answers  outside 
calls.  "There's  one  man  who  likes  to 
phone  in  'knock-knock'  jokes  and,  when 
I  take  his  calls  in  the  reception  room, 
everyone  looks  at  me  as  if  I'm  crazy." 

Brunette  Barbara  Scott  sometimes  feels 
as  if  she  were  in  charge  of  a  travel  bureau. 
"They  write  in  to  say  they  are  coming  to 
New  York  on  a  vacation  and  want  to  know 
where  they  should  stay.  Some  of  them 
ask  Arthur  to  meet  them  at  the  railroad 
station.  They  feel  close  to  Arthur.  They 
turn  to  him  for  advice." 

Joan  Zacher,  another  in  the  brunette 
minority,  expands  that  one:  "Arthur  has 
been  asked  for  advice  on  medical  prob- 
lems, contractual  arrangements,  dieting — 
everything.  One  mother,  concerned  about 
her  daughter,  asked  Arthur  if  nice  girls 
join  the  WACs.  He  answered  that  one  on 
the  air!" 

These  young  ladies  highly  respect  Ar- 
thur, and  it's  not  because  he  is  a  national 
idol.  To  them,  he  is  a  kind  and  considerate 
man.  During  the  summer,  when  he  is  on 
the  Virginia  farm,  it  is  not  unusual  for 
him  to  phone  Manhattan  and  tell  the  girls 
to  knock  off  early  on  a  hot  day.  He  was 
aboard  his  airplane  when  news  came  in  of 
the  possibility  of  a  hurricane  sweeping 
into  New  York.  Arthur  radioed  his  staff 
to  go  home. 

"Arthur  is  deeply  concerned  with  the 
welfare  of  others,"  says  Doreen  Partin. 
"He  is  quickly  touched  by  misfortune 
and,  frankly,  we  try  to  spare  him  many 
of  the  heartbreaking  letters,  for  no  man 
could  survive  it  all.  No  one  is  a  stranger 
to  him  and  I  think  from  the  mail  that 
most  people  realize  this.  They  write  the 
way  they  would  to  a  father  or  a  brother. 
They  want  to  share  with  him.  They  want 
to  tell  him  how  much  they  love  him.  They 
feel  just  the  way  we  do,  who  know  him 
well.  I  think  the  'Godfrey  family'  runs 
into  the  millions." 


Gentle 

Ex-Lax  Helps 

YOUR  CHILD  TOWARD 

Her  Normal 
Regularity 


AT  BEDTIME  give  your 
child  America's  best- 
tasting  laxative— choco- 
lated Ex-Lax.  There 
will  be  no  fuss  because 
it's  so  pleasant  to  take. 


IN    THE    MORNING 

she'll  get  gentle  relief— 
the  closest  thing  to 
natural  action.  No  up- 
set, no  griping,  no  em- 
barrassing urgency. 


NEXT  DAY— Ex-Lax  will  continue  to  help  your 
child  toward  her  normal  regularity.  She'll  hardly 
ever  have  to  take  Ex-Lax  again  the  next  night! 

Buy  The  New  65<  Size— Save  As  Much  As  37( 

Also  available  in  30t  and  12<?  sizes 

EX-LAX 

THE    CHOCOLATED    LAXATIVE 


MORE  PEOPLE  USE  EX-LAX  THAN  ANY  OTHER  LAXATIVE 


«*!! 


ONLY* 


If  you  need  more  money.. 


Up  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous   Hollywood   Cos- 
metics,  your  neighborhood. 
Free    Samples    and    details 
,0U!""?S-^  supplied.  Write  to: 
HARRY  TAYLOR,  Pres. 
Studio  Girl— 
"or.  liv*y     Hollywood  Cosmetics 

■■  j^wimsto  w^cin nrf. ip  calif.,  DepLTS-S5 


II  A  II 

t  Guaranteed  by  *<; 
Good  Housekeeping 


ENLARGEMENT 

Plus  12  Keepsakes 


5## 


Glamorous  black  and  white  enlarge- 
ments 8x10  inch  on  double  weight 
portrait  paper  and  gold  tooled  leath- 
erette frames  only  67c  ea.  FREE!  If 
you  order  3  enlargements  you  get 
one  extra  8x10  free  plus  12  small 
size  keepsakes  free.  But  you  must 
hurry.  To  get  the  free  gifts,  rush 
favorite  photos  or  films  at  once.  Be 
sure  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes, 

etc.  for  oil  coloring  information.  W  t  W  7"»V» 
Your  originals  safely  returned.  'tff'^  r  1  MV>V 

Send  no  money.  Pay  postman  plus  C.O.D.  State  choice 
of  frames,  brown  or  maroon.  Mail  photos  today.  Act  now. 
DepL  701,  Marvel  Art,  1140  Roosevelt  Road,  Coicato    It,  Illinois 


Permanent  Coloring' 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 

SWIMPR001  ■  One  application  lasts 
4  to  5  weeks'  Oui  ?lsl  yen. 
•for  the  hoiis  to  which  opplied 

SI. 00  (plus  toxl  ol  leading 
drug  and  dep'f.  stores 

Send  TODAY     Q  £7 
for  TRIAL  SIZE  *oOC 


"DARK-EYES"  Dept.    P-55 

3319  Corroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 


Check  Shade:  O  Black        Q   Brown 


Address  - 
La  Town 


TV  Radio  Mirror  Award  Winners  for  1954-55 


(Continued  from  page  36) 
even  experimented  with  TV,  has  won  its  sev- 
enth straight  Award  for  jovial  Don  McNeill 
— this  year,  as  your  favorite  radio  daytime 
variety  program.  The  corresponding  tele- 
vision Award  goes  to  a  comparative  new- 
comer, The  Bob  Crosby  Show,  after  only  a 
couple  of  seasons  on  the  CBS-TV  network. 
Two  frequent  winners  walked  off  with 
husband-and-wife  team  honors:  ABC-TV's 
Ozzie  And  Harriet  (of  the  famed  Nelson 
family)  and  NBC  Radio's  Fibber  McGee 
And    Molly     (Jim    and    Marian    Jordan). 

As  your  favorite  radio  quiz  program, 
Strike  It  Rich  garnered  still  another  gold 
medal  for  emcee  •Warren  Hull  and  pro- 
ducer Walt  Framer,  to  add  to  the  fistful 
already  won  in  previous  classifications  (in- 
cluding TV  and  "Best  Program  on  the 
Air") .  Two  For  The  Money,  a  radio  Award 
winner  last  year,  took  the  TV  quiz  prize 
this  year,  despite  a  strong  bid  by  previous 
title-holder  Whafs  My  Line?  The  panel 
prizes  went  to  two  first-timers:  CBS-TV's 
I've  Got  A  Secret  and  CBS  Radio's  Make 
Up  Your  Mind,  both  novelties  in  their 
field — the  latter  a  unique  daytime  program 
indeed,  as  a  panel  show  which  is  both  en- 
tertaining and  instructive. 

If  there  is  a  "serial  queen"  in  broadcast- 
ing, it  must  surely  be  Jan  Miner — the 
lovable  Julie  Nixon  of  Hilltop  House — 
whom  you  have  voted  your  favorite  radio 
daytime  drama  actress  for  five  years  in  a 
row.  Perhaps  Jan's  winning  ways  are 
catching,  for  her  husband,  Terry  O'Sulli- 
van,  has  also  been  voted  your  favorite  TV 
daytime  actor,  as  Arthur  Tate  in  Search. 
For  Tomorrow;  for  the  second  consecutive 
year.  Or  perhaps  talented  Terry  is  catch- 
ing the  habit  from  sweet  Mary  Stuart,  who 
plays  Joanne  Barron  in  Search  For  Tomor- 
row— and  who  has  just  won  her  third 
straight  Award  as  TV  daytime  actress! 
Mary's  closest  rivals  were  the  popular 
actresses  in  two  serials  produced  by  Rich- 
ard Dunn:  Peggy  McCay,  charming  star 
of  Love  Of  Life,  and  Virginia  Dwyer,  who 
was  then  appearing  in  The  Secret  Storm. 

Search  For  Tomorrow,  a  strong  contend- 
er last  year,  gets  your  nod  as  the  best  TV 
daytime  drama,  with  a  well-deserved  bow 
toward  producer  Myron  Golden  and  di- 
rector Charles  Irving.  Since  the  hottest 
competition  for  your  votes  is  in  this  entire 
field  of  dramatic  serials,  The  Romance  Of 
Helen  Trent — directed  by  Ernie  Ricca  and 
starring  Julie  Stevens — can  be  especially 
proud  of  its  second  straight  victory  as  your 
favorite  radio  daytime  drama.  James  Lip- 


ton,  portraying  Dr.  Dick  Grant  in  The 
Guiding  Light,  also  deserves  great  credit 
for  his  first  triumph  as  your  favorite  radio 
daytime  actor.  Incidentally,  The  Guiding 
Light — last  year's  prize  daytime  drama  on 
TV — was  a  close  runner-up  in  both  radio 
and  TV  this  year,  as  produced  by  Lucy 
Ferri  and  directed  by  Ted  Corday. 

In  the  field  of  evening  drama,  Lux  Radio 
Theater  has  chalked  up  its  eighth  succes- 
sive prize  as  your  favorite  radio  dramatic 
series — and  its  second  consecutive  medal 
as  the  best  program  on  radio!  Barbara 
Britton  and  Richard  Denning,  the  sleuth- 
ing Mr.  And  Mrs.  North,  repeated  their 
last  year's  success  as  your  favorite  radio 
evening  actors.  Mama  again  won  as  the 
top  TV  evening  drama,  with  Kraft  Tele- 
vision Theater — also  a  previous  winner — 
not  far  behind.  It  was  the  second  consec- 
utive year  for  lovely  Loretta  Young  as 
your  favorite  TV  evening  drama  actress, 
and  the  third  for  Jack  Webb  as  TV  actor. 

With  Dragnet  also  winning  its  third  TV 
Award — as  mystery-adventure  program — 
star-producer-creator  Jack  Webb  can  now 
count  up  at  least  ten  TVRM  prizes  for 
both  the  show  and  himself,  in  both  radio 
and  TV.  The  big  surprise  in  this  field  was 
scored  by  Gunsmoke,  in  capturing  the 
radio  mystery-adventure  Award.  Though 
Western  in  theme  and  set  in  an  earlier  day, 
Gunsmoke  is  almost  documentary  in  its 
treatment,  with  psychological  undertones 
and  skillful  characterizations. 

In  the  straight  Western  category,  two 
hard-riding,  sweet-singing  cowboys  con- 
tinued their  photo-finish  race,  and  the  re- 
sult was  simply  a  switch  in  the  Awards 
they  won  last  year.  This  time,  the  star 
and  program  honors  went  to  Roy  Rogers 
and  his  NBC-TV  show,  to  Gene  Autry 
and  his  CBS  Radio  show.  In  sports  and 
news,  your  votes  also  went  to  previous 
Award  winners.  Bill  Stern  was  your  fa- 
vorite radio  sportscaster,  with  five  earlier 
Awards  already  to  his  credit — including 
top  honors  in  our  very  first  poll.  Mel 
Allen,  who  won  twice  in  radio,  now  re- 
ceives his  second  citation  as  your  favorite 
TV  sportscaster.  Edward  R.  Murrow 
earned  his  third  Award  as  top  radio  news 
commentator,  and  Douglas  Edwards  be- 
came a  three-time  medalist  as  your  TV 
choice  in  the  same  classification. 

Queen  For  A  Day,  the  Mutual  "Cinde- 
rella show"  emceed  by.  Jack  Bailey,  also 
made  it  three-in-a-row,  as  your  favorite 
women's  program  on  radio.  But  your 
television  votes  went  to  that  kaleidoscopic 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward   on   .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every  Sunday  Afternoon  on  MUTUAL 
Stations 


The  SERGE  RUBINSTEIN  STORY— "Too  Many  Women,  Too 
Many  Motives" — the  payoff  of  a  playboy  whose  hobbies  were 
women  and  money— in  May  TRUE  DETECTIVE  MAGAZINE  at 
newsstands  now. 


newcomer,  NBC-TV's  Home.  And  it  was 
the  spectacular  man  with  the  spectacles 
who  scored  a  unique  triumph  by  winning 
both  medals  in  the  daytime  comedy  field, 
for  his  Monday-through-Friday  Robert  Q. 
Lewis  Show  on  CBS-TV  and  his  Saturday 
Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show  on  CBS  Radio! 

Competition  was  keen  for  the  emcee 
prizes,  with  most  of  them  going  to  those 
dynamic  personalities  who  handle  more 
than  one  show.  Art  Linkletter — whose 
rollicking  House  Party  is  seen  and  heard 
weekdays  on  CBS  Radio  and  CBS-TV,  and 
whose  People  Are  Funny  is  a  nighttime 
feature  on  both  NBC-TV  and  NBC  Radio 
— achieved  his  seventh  consecutive  per- 
sonal Award,  as  your  favorite  daytime 
master  of  ceremonies,  radio  division.  Bill 
Cullen — busy  as  anybody  on  radio  and 
TV,  and  now  running  a  real  Saturday- 
long  marathon  on  NBC's  Roadshow — gets 
the  evening  radio  Award,  for  his  achieve- 
ments on  CBS's  Stop  The  Music  and  NBC's 
Walk  A  Mile  during  the  past  year. 

Day  and  night,  in  both  TV  and  radio, 
the  winning  masters  of  ceremonies  were 
hard-pressed  by  such  previous  medalists 
as  Bert  Parks,  Bud  Collyer,  Groucho 
Marx.  It  took  a  careful  recount  to  prove 
that  Garry  Moore — whose  big  TV  daytime 
show  got  many  votes  in  several  categories, 
and  whose  evening  panel  program,  I've 
Got  A  Secret,  did  walk  off  with  a  prize — 
had  snatched  the  TV  daytime  emcee  Award 
from  that  irrepressible  man,  Godfrey.  And 
the  race  was  almost  as  close  for  the  TV 
evening  honors,  which  were  ultimately 
won  by  Ed  Sullivan. 

Sullivan  and  his  mammoth  entertain- 
ment, Toast  Of  The  Town,  got  three  gold 
medals  this  year.  It  was  the  fourth  per- 
sonal Award  for  Laughing  Ed,  the  third 
consecutive  year  for  Toast  Of  The  Town 
as  your  favorite  TV  evening  variety  show, 
and  Toast's  first  victory  as  the  best  pro- 
gram on  television!  A  proud  achievement 
indeed,  and  one  that  gathers  greater  glory 
by  virtue  of  the  strong  competition  from 
Arthur  Godfrey  and  his  programs. 

No  one  has  yet  topped  Arthur  and 
his  "Little  Godfreys"  in  the  number 
of  TVRM  Awards  your  votes  have  given 
them — a  total  which  has  now  reached 
some  two-score  citations  for  programs  and 
personalities,  on  both  radio  and  TV.  Four 
of  these  were  voted  this  year,  with  Arthur 
Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  winning  its  latest 
of  many  Awards,  as  your  favorite  radio 
evening  variety  program,  and  two  of  his 
fine  singers  virtually  sweeping  their  en- 
tire category. 

This  has  been  Eddie  Fisher's  great  year, 
and  only  Eddie  was  able  to  break  the 
charm  which  almost  gave  all  four  singer 
Awards  to  the  Godfrey  soloists.  Actually, 
the  fight  in  the  male  division  was  a  three- 
cornered  battle,  in  both  radio  and  TV, 
with  Frank  Parker,  Eddie  Fisher  and 
Perry  Como  all  in  there  swinging,  right 
up  to  the  final  count.  Result:  Eddie  gets 
his  first  gold  medal,  as  your  radio  favorite 
— and  Frank  gets  his  fourth,  as  your  TV 
choice  this  year.  Marion  Marlowe,  your 
favorite  female  singer,  won  TV  honors  for 
the  third  consecutive  season  and  radio 
honors  for  the  second  time. 

All  of  which  proves,  as  usual,  that  the 
TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards  are  "anybody's 
race" — just  as  the  poll  itself  is  "every- 
body's show."  We  know  the  winners  of 
our  gold  medals  will  be  grateful  for  your 
votes  of  confidence  in  a  highly  competi- 
tive field  .  .  .  and  TV  Radio  Mirror  is 
grateful  for  the  discrimination  and  enthu- 
siasm you  have  shown  for  your  favorites — 
both  winners  and  near-winners — which 
will  help  guide  our  selection  of  stories  and 
pictures  throughout  the  coming  year. 


cJ*j  e  auiiful    cflatr 


E 


C 


K 


JOHN 
NEW 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR    THREE    DIFFERENT    HAIR    CONDITIONS 

When  you  buy  a  shampoo,  keep  in  mind  one  thought  -  the 
condition  of  your  hair.  It  is  either  dry,  oily  or  normal.  There 
is  a  Breck  Shampoo  for  each  of  these  hair  conditions.  One 
Breck  Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair.  Another  Breck  Shampoo  is 
for  oily  hair.  A  third  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  normal  hair. 
A  Breck  Shampoo  is  not  drying  to  the  hair,  yet  it  cleans 
thoroughly.  The  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual 
hair  condition  leaves  your  hair  soft,  fragrant  and  lustrous. 

The  Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 

Copyright  1955  by  John  H.  Breck  Inc. 
H      BRECK      INC  •  MANUFACTURING      CHEMISTS  •  SPRINGFIELD      }  •  MASSACHUSETTS 


•  wV  ( 


YORK 


CHICAGO 


SAN 


FRANCISCO 


3 
O  T   T  A    \V   A 


CANADA 


Grhwt  da^iAtk,  wmimjC[  !  FiWi  k  a  kkw  dqa/udttl 

WINSTON  tastes  good- 

like  a  cigarette  should  ! 


ITS  GOT 
REAL  FLAVOR! 


AND 
DRAWS-  SO 

easy! 


Winston  brings  flavor  back  to  filter  smoking! 


■  No  wonder  Winston  has  changed 
America's  mind  about  filter  cigarettes! 
Winston  tastes  good  —  like  a  cigarette 
should !  It's  got  real  flavor  —  the  full, 
rich  flavor  real  smokers  want.  You're 
sure  to  enjoy  Winston's  finer  flavor! 

■  Winston  also  introduced  a  finer  filter 
that  works  so  effectively,  yet  doesn't 
"thin"  the  taste.  The  fine  tobacco  flavor 
comes  clean  thru  to  you  because 
Winstons  are  easy-drawing.  You'll 
really  appreciate  Winston's  finer  filter! 


II.  J.  H.'.n.M      r.,l,i Co.,  Win   Ifiii-Kuli'tn,  N.  C. 


S>fatki  'WINSTON  tk  eaMj-dnmiMCi  jjSken.  ckfojisttd 


THE  MARINERS 
SID  CAESAR 

JIM  BANNON 
of  Hawkins  Falls 


ALE  STORM 


L  WRIGHTSO 


Why  everyone  loves  Jackie  Gleason 

BY  AUDREY  MEADOWS 


:•  ■■ 


T 

NEW    MILLIONS    HAVE    TRIED    IT!     NEW    MILLIONS    LOVE    ITI 


4*»,    <*, 


"New  cold  cream  Camay  is  my  idea  of  the 

perfect  beauty  soap,"  says  Mrs.  Jess  Altman, 

an  enchanting  Camay  Bride.  "It's  so  mild  and  gentle, 

I  just  love  the  feel  of  it  on  my  skin.  And  I  love  the  way 

it  keeps  my  complexion  looking  its  best,  too." 


NOW    IN 

AMA1 


ifhCB^^  ^Mfe  jx 


Let  it  help  you 

to  a  fresher,  clearer. 

more  radiant  complexion ! 


Yes,  gentle,  luxurious  Camay  with  its  caressing  care  can  be  the  best 

friend  your  complexion  ever  had!  With  its  skin-pampering  mildness, 

velvety  lather,  and  exclusive  fragrance,  it's  the  beauty  secret  of 

so  many  exquisite  brides.  Let  it  caress  your  skin  to  new  loveliness,  too. 

Just  change  to  regular  care  ...  use  Camay  and  Camay  alone. 

You'll  see  your  skin  become  fresher,  more  radiant,  softer  with  your 

first  satin-smooth  cake.  And  remember,  there's  precious  cold 

i  ream  in  Camay— added  luxury  at  no  extra  cost.  For  your  beauty 

andyoux  bath,  there's  no  finer  soap  in  all  the  world. 


THE    SOAP 


F    BEAUTIFUL   WOMEN 


£&riM 


■ 


No  wonder  families  see  eye-toeye  on  NEW  IPANA! 

{it's  the  best-lasting  way  -to  fight  decay) 


Once  your  family  tries  new-formula 
Ipana,  we're  sure  you'll  all  agree  with 
the  enthusiastic  users  above.  Because 
Ipana's  wonderful  new  minty  flavor 
makes  brushing  teeth  a  pleasure. 

In  fact,  new  Ipana  tastes  so  good  it  beat 
all  three   other   leading   tooth   pastes 


hands  down — after  nearly  four  thou- 
sand "hidden-name"  home  taste  tests. 

Destroys  decay  and  bad-breath 
bacteria  with  WD-9 

Even  more  important  is  the  way  won- 
der-ingredient WD-9  in  new-formula 
Ipana  fights   tooth   decay — stops   bad 


New-Formula  IPANA 

WITH  BACTERIA-DESTROYER  WD-9 


breath  all  day.  It  destroys  most  mouth 
bacteria  with  every  brushing,  even  bac- 
teria your  tooth  brush  can't  reach. 

So  enjoy  new  Ipana  .  .  .  and  trust  your 
family's  precious  teeth  to  it.  At  all  toi- 
letry counters  in  the  familiar  yellow 
and  red-striped  carton. 


Special  introductory 
combination 

Here's  how  to  make  your  own  tasic  test 
of  new  Ipana — and  save  2.V  in  the  bargain. 
Look  for  this  special  combination  package 
.    .    .    two   Riant -sue    tubes    for    only   69#. 

Products  ol  Bristol-Myers 


Ipana  A/C  Tooth  Paste  (Ammonlated  Chlorophyll)  also  contains  bacteria-destroyer  WO -9  (Sodium  Lauryl  Sulphate). 


* 


plus  tax/-Af  ai,5&]0  cent  stores 


•STOPS  PERSPIRATION  ODOR ....  instantly 
HANDY  STICK  FORM ....  no  mess,  no  waste 
SURE  PROTECTION,  all  day  long 
•THRIFTY. . . .  big  stick  lasts  for  months 
•GENTLE,  HARMLESS  to  skin  or  clothes 

•DAINTY greaseless,  never  sticky 

ii  FRAGRANT  and  luxurious  as  a  lipstick 


•••for 
so  little! 


JUNE,  1955 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


VOL.  44,  NO.  1 


N.Y.,  N.J.,  Conn.  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Bud   Goode,    West   Coast   Editor 


people  on  the  air 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  11 

Why  Everyone  Likes  Jackie  Gleason by  Audrey  Meadows  29 

Happily  Ever  After  (Earl  Wrightson) by  Gregory  Merwin  32 

Man  of  Today  (Dave  Garroway) by  Ed  Meyerson  34 

All  the  Brothers  Are  Valiant  (The  Mariners) by  Martin  Cohen  36 

Our  Gal  Sunday   (short-short  story  from  the  popular 

daytime    drama) 40 

Age  of  Discovery  (Warren  Bellinger) by  Frances  Kish  42 

Head  in  the  Stars  (Katherine  Anderson) by  Peter  Charade  54 

Young  Doctor  Malone  (pictu?-e  story  from  the  beloved 

dramatic    serial) 56 

Romantic  Adventurer    (Jim  Bannon) by  Helen   Bolstad  60 

Stars  and  Stories  of  the  Day   (Dorese  Bell,  Art  Waner,  Whispering 

Streets,  My  True  Story) 62 

Answer  to  Her  Prayers;  (Gale  Storm) by  Bud  Goode  66 

features  in  full  color 

Forever  Near  Her  Heart  (Lucille  Ball,  Desi  Arnaz)  by  Aljean  Meltsir  44 

Sid  Caesar's  Finest  Hour by  Gladys  Hall  46 

Born  To  Be  a  Husband  (Richard  Coogan) by  Ernst  Jacobi  50 

The  Magic  of  Marriage  (Peter  Lawford) by  Maxine  Arnold  52 


your  local  station 


A  Letter  to  Lee  Graham  (WABD) by  Ellen  Taussig  4 

Anything  Can  Happen    (WMUR-TV) 8 

Culinary    Queen    ( WRCA-TV) 15 

Lilting,  Lean  and  Likable  (WCOP) 26 


your  special  services 


Steve    Allen's   Turntable 6 

You  Hold  the  Key 16 

Information    Booth 18 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 22 

Daytime  Diary 24 

Inside   Radio    (program   listings) 74 

TV  Program   Highlights 76 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 100 

Cover  portrait  of  Audrey  Meadows  and  Jackie  Gleason  by  Dave  Preston 


buy  your  July  copy  early  •  on  sale  June  7 


I 


PUBLISHED    MONTHLY    by    Marfadden    I'ubl  ieallo 


rk, 


Y. 


Inc.,   New 


EXECUTIVE      ADVERTISING      AND      EDITORIAL      OFFICES     at 

20  5    i  qi  i     i  2nd    Street ,    New    York,    N.    Y.    Editorial    Branch 

321    South    Beverly  Drive.    Beverly   Hills.   Calif.,   and 

z -j.  i   North  Lo  Salle  Street)  Chicago,  111.   Irving  s.  Manhelmer, 
President;     Lee    Andrews,     Vice    President;    Meyer    Dworkin. 
itnry   and   Treasurer,    Advertising   offices   also    in  Chicago 


is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self -addressed 
return    envelopes    or    with    sufficient    return    postage    will    be 

returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Mncfadden  Publications 
International  Corp..  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17. 
Manhelmer,    President;     Douglas    Lockhart. 


id    8a 


i  i 


.  i 


nt. 


subscription    RATES:    $3.00  one  year,    u.    S.    and   Posses- 
and  '  mail. i.  B5.00  per  year  for  all  other  countries. 

CHANGE   OF    ADDRESS:    <i   weeks'    notice   essential.    When   pos- 

..,hi...    1,1..!'.     iiitni'ii    stencil- Impression    address   from    a    re- 
cenl   Issue.   Addn    ■    chani ion   i ade  only  if  you  wend  us 

v. l.l.    hn    well    an    your    new    address.     Write    lo    TV    Radio 

l, ,    205    East    12nd    Street.    New    York    17.    N.    Y. 

MANUSCRIPTS:    All    Mianiisei  Ipls   Will    be   carefully   considered. 

hut   jaii.ij  hei   cannot   bo  responsible  for  loss  or  damage.    It 

Member   of  (he    TRUE 


RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28.  1054,  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y. .  under  the  Act  of  March  3, 
1879.    Authorized    as    Second   Class   mail,    P.    O.    Oept..    Ottawa, 

Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1955  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc. 

AH  rights  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention. 
All  rights  reserved  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion. Todos  dcrechos  reservados  scgun  La  Convenelon  Pan- 
Americana  (lc  I'ropiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  Ln  V.  S.  Patent  Office,  printed  In  U.  S'.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Company. 
STORY.     Women's    GfOUp 


Most  of  the  girls  of  her  set  were  married 
.  .  .  but  not  Eleanor.  It  was  beginning  to 
look,  too,  as  if  she  never  would  be.  True, 
men  were  attracted  to  her,  but  their  interest 
quickly  turned  to  indifference.  Poor  girl! 
She  hadn't  the  remotest  idea  why  they 
dropped  her  so  quickly  .  .  .  and  even  her 
best  friend  wouldn't  tell  her. 

Why  risk  the  stigma  of  halitosis 
(bad  breath)  when  Listerine  Antiseptic 
stops  it  so  easily  ...  so  quickly. 

No  Tooth  Paste  Kills  Odor  Germs 
Like  This . . .  Instantly 

Listerine  does  what  no  tooth  paste 
does — instantly  kills  bacteria,  by  millions 
— stops  bad  breath  instantly,  and  usually 
for  hours  on  end.  Bacterial  fermentation 
of  proteins  which  are  always  present  in 
the  mouth  is  by  far  the  most  common 
cause  of  bad  breath.  Research  shows  that 
breath  stays  sweeter  longer  depending  on  the 
degree  to  which  you  reduce  germs  in  the  mouth. 

No  tooth  paste,  of  course,  is  antiseptic. 
Chlorophyll  does  not  kill  germs — but 


Listerine  kills  bacteria  by  millions, 
gives  you  lasting  antiseptic  protection 
against  bad  breath. 

Listerine  Clinically  Proved 
Four  Times  Better  Than  Tooth  Paste 

Is  it  any  wonder  Listerine  Antiseptic  in 
recent  clinical  tests  averaged  at  least  four 
times  more  effective  in  stopping  bad  breath 
odors  than  the  chlorophyll  products  or 
tooth  pastes  it  was  tested  against?  With 
proof  like  this,  it's  easy  to  see  why 
Listerine  "belongs"  in  your  home.  Gargle 
Listerine  Antiseptic  every  morning  .  a  ■ 
every  night  .  .  .  before  every  date; 


A  Product  of  The  Lambert  Company 

LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC 
STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  times  better 
than  any  tooth  paste 


■ilH 


Countless  WABD  viewers  have  found  help,  happiness 
and  inspiration  as  the  result  of  watching  or  writing 


By  ELLEN  TAUSSIG 


Because  of  the  personal  nature  of  each  guest's  problem, 
Lee  has  them  face  her,  not  the  camera,  on  her  program. 


Most  of  her  off-camera  hours  are  spent  working,  but  Lee 
saves  evenings  to  be  with  husband  Lawrence  and  friends. 


Each  of  us,  at  some  time  in  our  lives,  has  been  faced 
with  a  problem  we  could  not  solve  alone.    And. 
whether  the  problem  is  great  or  small,  the  important 
thing  is  that  there  is  someone  to  advise  or  help  us. 
For  thousands  of  Station  WABD  viewers,  that  "some- 
one" is  Lee  Graham.  Each  day  on  her  program.  Letter 
To  Lee  Graham,  seen  at  2:30  P.M.,  she  interviews 
and  advises  a  guest  who  has  written  to  her  for  help. 
The  problems  dealt  with  are  varied  and  always  univer- 
sal ...  a  woman  who  wants  to  put  the  spark  back  in 
her  marriage  ...  a  man  "over  35"  who  can't  find  work 
...  a  young  girl  whose  parents  disapprove  of  her 
boy  friend.  And  one  thing  is  always  certain:    Lee  will 
do  everything  she  can  to  help  solve  the  problem,  even 
if  it  means  being  "brutally"  frank.  "I  put  frankness 
above  trying  to  get  people  to  like  me,"  says  Lee. 
This,  however,  has  endeared  her  all  the  more  to  her 
viewers  who  consider  her  "a  friend  who  comes  in  every 
day.'    The  purpose  of  her  show,  says  Lee,  "is  not  to 
be  sensational,  but  to  teach." 

In  addition  to  benefiting  from  her  programs,  an 
average  of  1000  people  a  week  receive  from  Lee  either  a 
personal  reply  to  their  questions  or  one  of  her  15  self- 
help   charts,   ranging  from   "Ten  Ways  to   Make   Your 
Marriage  Happier"  to  "How  to  Stay  on  a  Diet."   ("I 
don't  let  anything  go  unanswered,"  says  Lee.) 
Then,  too,  Lee  is  an  instructor  in  human  relations 
and  family  problems  at  the  College  of  the  City  of  New 
York  and  author  of  two  books  and  numerous  articles 
on  the  subject. 

A  born  and  bred  New  Yorker,  Lee  was  17  and  a 
sophomore  at  Hunter  College  when  she  left  to  marry 
Lawrence  Graham,  a  successful  New  York  business- 
man. She  resumed  her  studies  at  Columbia  University, 
majoring  in  psychology.  To  round  out  her  background, 
she  studied  fashion  and  journalism  at  the  Traphagen 
School,  followed  by  courses  in  advertising,  promo- 
tion and  interior  decorating.  During  World  War  II 
Lee  was  a  member  of  the  Red  Cross,  serving  at  the 
Blood  Bank  Center  and  as  a  case  worker  in  the 
Home  Service  Department.  Following  the  war  she 
began  to  write  professionally,  lecture,  give  vocational 
guidance,  and  appear  as  guest  on  radio  and  TV  shows. 

Happily  married  for  twenty  years,  Lee  has  com- 
bined marriage  and  a  career  with  a  perfection  that 
characterizes  all  her  actions.  She  and  Lawrence 
live  in  a  hotel-apartment  in  Manhattan,  opposite 
Central   Park.  Their  home   is   attractively   adorned 
with  mementos  from  their  wide  travels.  They  buy 
something  in  every  country  they  visit,  but  never  take 
any  pictures — "mostly  because  we're  not  good  at  it," 
Lee  explains.  Lee  also  collects  statues  of  angels  and 
has  them  beautifully  arranged  in  her  living  room, 
along  with  several  handsome  paintings.  Because  their 
kitchen  is  closet-size,  Lee  only  cooks  in  about  twice  a 
week,  but  the  Grahams  entertain  often — after  dinner. 
As  proud  as  any  husband  could  be,  Lawrence  has  a  TV 
set  in  his  office  and  watches  Lee's  program  every  day. 

There  is  a  great  deal  more  that  could  be  said  of  Lee 
Graham — her  personal  charm  and  sincerity;  her  tire- 
less efforts  in  serving  as  "a  guide  to  happier  living." 
But  all  that  could  be  said  would  only  be  adding  a  P.S. 
to  the  already  perfectly  "written"  Letter  To  Lee  Graham. 


Lee  receives  an  average  of   1000  letters  a  week  and   personally  answers  all  those  of  a  specific  nature. 


Lee  has  a  varied  and  attractive  as- 
sortment   of    hats    she    trims    herself. 


Vacations  mean  travel  for  the  Grahams. 
Below:  Dining  at  sea,  bound  for  Europe. 


In    her    cozy    kitchen,    Lee    pre- 
pares  a   frosted   for   Lowrence. 


ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


H 


1 1,  there!  It's  me  again,  back  at  you 
for  our  monthly  record  roundup.  I  guess 
it's  Maytime,  or  spring  cleaning  time,  or 
something,  but  there's  always  time  for 
music,  so  let's  see  what's  doing  in  the 
disc   department. 

Joni  James,  that  pretty  lass  with  the 
plaintive  voice,  has  a  new  release  of  an 
oldie — which  is  just  right  for  her  style — 
"When  You  Wish  Upon  a  Star."  This 
could  be  the  new  hit  Joni  has  been  wish- 
ing for.  On  the  backing  she  asks  the 
musical  question,  "Is  This  the  End  of  the 
Line?"    (M-G-M) 

If  mambo  is  your  meat,  you'll  like  Perez 
Prado's  latest  album,  "Mambo  Mambo," 
which  will  be  released  in  a  couple  of 
weeks.  Some  of  the  tunes  include  "April 
in  Portugal,"  "Mambo  a  la  Kenton," 
"Mambo  a  la  Billy  May,"  and  "Mambo  de 
Chattanooga."    (Victor) 

Jumping  from  mambo  to  mish-mash,  if 
you  will,  here's  a  confusing  album  title 
for  you:  "Hipsters,  Flipsters  and  Finger 
Poppin'  Daddies,  Knock  Me  Your  Lobes." 
That's  the  name  of  it — for  real — and  it's 
done  by  Lord  Buckley,  the  West  Coast 
musical  maniac,  who  does  parodies  on 
Shakespeare,  with  "hip"  language,  jazz 
phraseology,  and  so  on.  This  particular 
set  was  originally  recited  to  a  background 
of  jazz  standards,  but  the  music  was  de- 
leted because  it  drowned  out  the  "recita- 
tions."  (Victor) 

Columbia  Records  have  signed  two  tal- 
ented newcomers,  with  big  hopes  for  both 
of  them.  One  is  a  baritone,  Steve  Clay- 
ton, who  debuts  with  two  ballads,  "Where 
You  Go,  Go  I,"  and  "Aladdin's  Lamp." 
The  other  is  Cathy  Johnson — discovered 
by  The  Four  Lads  Quartet,  by  the  way, 
in  Buffalo,  New  York — and  her  first  two 
sides  are  "Rockin'  and  Yodelin' "  and 
"Guilty  Shadows."    Good  beginning,  kids. 

"Les  and  Mary"  is  the  simple  title  of  a 
fine  album — by  Les  Paul  and  Mary  Ford, 
of  course.  They  have  taken  some  standard 
favorites  and  given  them  the  usual  Ford- 
Paul  touch.  Included  are  such  familiar 
chestnuts  as  "Tico-Tico,"  "Falling  in  Love 
with  Love,"  "Sunny  Side  of  the  Street," 
"Just  One  of  Those  Things,"  and  "Swing 
Low,  Sweet  Chariot."    (Capitol) 

Dolores  Hawkins,  the  "George"  girl,  has 
a  new  blues  recording  of  "Smoky  Morn- 
ing," which  I  kinda  like.    The  backing  is 
a  rhythm  and  blues  tune,  "No  Such  Luck." 
Don  Costa's  orchestra  on  both.   Dolores  did 
a  wonderful  job  on  my  Tonight  TV  show 
a  few  weeks  ago  when  she  previewed  both 
of  these  sides.    (Epic) 
T        M-G-M    has    taken    some    of    their    big 
v    single  sellers  of  the  past  few  months  and 
*    put  them  together  in  an  album  called  "Pop 
Parade,"  and  it  makes  for  a  good  variety 
set.    Included  are:    Joni  James'  "How  Im- 


portant Can  It  Be?";  "All  of  You,"  by 
Rush  Adams;  "The  Finger  of  Suspicion," 
by  The  Naturals;  Pat  O'Day's  "Earth 
Angel";  Tommy  Mara's  "Pledging  My 
Love";  Billy  Fields'  "Sincerely";  Franklyn 
MacCormack's  "Melody  of  Love";  and 
"Ballad  of  Davy  Crockett,"  by  James 
Brown. 

The  Chordettes  have  come  up  with  their 
first  single  record  since  their  big  hit,  "Mr. 
Sandman,"  and  you  should  be  hearing  it 
for  quite  a  while.  The  gals  have  chosen  a 
tune  in  the  novelty  groove,  called  "The 
Dudelsack  Song."  This  side  has  German 
lyrics  and  some  unusual  Scotch  bagpipe 
playing.  The  backing  is  a  rhythm  song, 
"Lonely  Lips,"  with  some  "bum-de-bum" 
beat  sounds  in  the  background  "rendered" 
by  conductor  Archie  Bleyer.   (Cadence) 

Molly  Goldberg  and  comedian  Red  But- 
tons are  just  about  the  last  two  people 
you'd  ever  think  of  for  a  platter  duet,  but 
Columbia  thought  of  it — and  very  happily 
— and  the  results  are:  "Practice,  Darling, 
Practice"  and  "My  Mother's  Lullaby,"  with 
orchestral  accompaniment  by  Jimmy  Car- 
roll. On  the  "Practice"  side  Molly  urges 
Red  to  please  practice  his  fiddle  because, 
as  she  tells  him,  "You'll  be  a  Heifetz  yet." 

Al  Martino  is  one  crooner  who  has 
really  improved  tremendously,  following 
his  European  sojourn.  Al  studied  voice 
seriously  while  on  the  Continent,  and 
you'll  notice  the  difference  in  his  quality 
on  his  first  record  since  returning  to 
America.  He  sings  an  inspirational  ballad, 
"Love  Is  Eternal,"  and  a  jump  ditty, 
"Snowy,  Snowy  Mountains,"  with  Monty 
Kelly's  orchestra.  An  interesting  sidelight 
to  "Love  Is  Eternal"  is  that  the  lyrics  were 
written  by  Jean  Stone,  the  wife  of  Irving 
Stone,  who  authored  the  best-selling  book 
of  the  same  title.    (Capitol) 

After  all  the  hullabaloo  with  the  male 
quartets,  it  now  seems  to  be  the  singing 
sister  groups  who  are  riding  high — The 
DeJohns,  The  De  Castros,  The  McGuires, 
and  so  forth.  And  here  come  The  De- 
Marco  Sisters,  five  of  the  nicest  kids  in 
show  business,  with  what  looks  like  just 
the  hit  they've  been  waiting  for — "Two 
Hearts"  and  "Dreamboat."    (Decca) 

Lawrence  Welk  and  his  orchestra  have 
recorded  two  instrumentals  which  should 
appeal  to  Welk  fans,  "The  Elephants' 
Tango"  and  "Lazy  Gondolier."  The  Welk 
accordion  is  very  much  present,  but  Law- 
rence seems  to  have  left  out  some  of  the 
extra  sound  effects  he  usually  employs 
for  his  "Champagne  Music"  bubbles. 
(Coral) 

If  you  like  jazz,  give  a  listen  to  an  album 
titled  "King  Richard  The  Swing-Hearted." 
This  one  is  by  Dick  Collins,  the  new 
trumpet  discovery,  who  sounds  so  much 
like   the   late,   great   Bix   Beiderbecke.    In 


fact  he  has  been  tagged  "Bix"  Collins  by 
many  musicians  and  record  people,  and 
big  predictions  have  been  made  for  the 
Collins  musical  future.    (Victor) 

Ginny  Gibson  has  waxed  the  cute  new 
novelty,  "Whatever  Lola  Wants,"  backed 
with  a  lyrical  warning,  "If  Anything 
Should  Happen  to  You."  Well,  something 
just  might  happen  with  this  record,  espe- 
cially the  "Lola"  tune,  which  could  turn 
out  to  be  another  "Hernando's  Hideaway" 
kind  of  thing.   (M-G-M) 

Two  new  sides  by  Eddie  Fisher — "Take 
My  Love"  and  "Just  One  More  Time"— 
and  I  think  they're  just  about  the  best 
recordings  he  has  ever  done.  "Take  My 
Love"  is  a  rich  ballad,  with  a  tender  lyric, 
from  the  M-G-M  musical,  "The  Glass 
Slipper."  It  was  written  by  the  composers 
of  "Hi  Lili,  Hi  Lo"  and  has  much  of  the 
same  charm.  "Just  One  More  Time"  is  a 
bouncey    rhythm    ballad.    (Victor) 

If  you  follow  the  Arthur  Godfrey  shows 
and  would  like  to  take  a  trip  to  New  York, 
but  can't  get  there,  maybe  you'll  settle 
for  a  new  album  called,  "A  Visit  to  New 
York  with  Arthur  Godfrey  and  All  the 
Little  Godfreys."  It's  just  what  it  sounds 
like — a  musical  tribute  to  the  big  town 
by  Mr.  G.  and  his  entire  cast:  Frank 
Parker,  Janette  Davis,  The  Mariners,  Mar- 
ion Marlowe,  The  McGuire  Sisters,  Hale- 
loke,  and  the  newest  Little  Godfrey, 
Carmel    Quinn.    (Columbia) 

And  I  should  be  going,  as  my  space  is 
gone.  So  long  for  now — be  seeing  you  next 
month  with  the  June  tunes. 


The  Four  Coins — George  Mantal- 
is,  Michael  James  (top),  George 
James,  Jim  Gregorakis  (bottom) — 
have  a  hit  in  "My  Anxious  Heart." 


Change  your  hair  style  without  a 
bit  of  trouble,  for  spray  net  brushes  out 
instantly.  It  doesn't  flake  or  ever  get  the 
tiniest  bit  sticky. 


sponsors  the 


Helene  Curtis  SPRAY  NET*  keeps  your  hair  prettily  in  place 
all  day,  but  with  a  bewitching  softness. 

How  should  your  topknot  look  this  season?  Grimly  lacquered 
into  place?  Wildly  waving  in  the  breeze? 

Never !  This  season  the  look  is  soft  and  shining  hair  that 
stays  put  in  the  prettiest  ivay. 

For  Helene  Curtis  dipped  deep  into  a  chemist's  tube  and 
came  up  with  a  delightfully  different  hair  spray.  A  hair  spray  so 
silky  ...  so  soft  it  couldn't  possibly  make  hair  dry  or  stiff  or 
brittle.  Yet  it  held  each  curly  straggler  in  place.  Waves  behaved 
despite  humidity.   Flyaway  hair  tamed  down  nicely.    In  a  word — 
it  worked!  And  softly,  prettily! 

So  here,  from  Helene  Curtis  to  you,  with  flattery  in  every 
swoosh,  is  spray  net.  The  ladylike-way,  the  pretty  soft-way  to 
curb  your  curls  and  hold  your  wayward  waves ! 

*t.  M.  REG.  U.  S.  PAT.  OFF. 


No  drooping  curls  on  rainy  days. 
With  spray  net  your  hair  pays  no  mind 
to  dampness  or  humidity.  Curls  and 
waves  stay  in,  weather  or  no. 


— 


Set  your  pin  curls  in  a  hurry.  Just  roll  them 
up,  make  large  loose  curls  on  top,  smaller  ones  at 
your  neckline,  then  spray  with  spray  net.  They'll 
dry  in  minutes,  they'll  look  soft  and  pretty. 


Use  spray  net  every  day,  as 

often  as  you  like,  for  it  contains  ex- 
clusive Spray-On  Lanolin  Lotion. 
Keeps  your  topknot  soft  and  silky. 


Nov)   there  are   two  types  of 

Helene  Curtis  SPRAY  NET 
Let  your  hair  be  the  judge.  If  it's  "baby- 
Or  'ton  like  the  casual  look,  the 
new  Super  Soft  spray  net,  without  In  - 
quer,  will  be  beautifully  right.  For  hair 
that's  thick,  harder-to-manage.  for  elab- 
orate hair-dos.  use  Regular  spray  RSI 
. .  .  already  the  favorite  of  millions.' 


Pantomimics   Bert  Houle,   Donn  Tibbetts,   Miss  Jay  Stewart,   and  artist  Jeff 
Cuddy — backed  by  cameramen  and  crew — fill  the  TV  screen  with  merriment. 


What  goes  on  while  the  record's  spinning  on  a  TV  show  ? 
If  it's  a  Donn  Tibbetts  program  on  WMUR : 


ANYTHING  CAN  HAPPEN 


The  records  spin  and  the  fun  goes 
around  right  along  with  them  on 
The  Donn  Tibbetts  Show  ...  a  disc- 
jockey show  which  is  seen  as  well  as 
heard  on  Station  WMUR-TV,  week- 
days at  4:05  P.M.  and  Monday  at 
7:30  P.M.  ...  a  variety  show  spiced 
with  hilarity.  .  .  .  Donn  himself  might 
pantomime,  introduce  a  litter  of  pup- 
pies, fly  in  an  Air  Force  jet,  or  spar 
with  a  live  bear  as  one  of  today's  hit 
records  is  played.  Or  Jeff  Cuddy  may 
step  up  to  the  easel  to  do  an  on- 
camera  sketch  illustrating  the  tune. 
Pert  Jay  Stewart  and  the  Company — 
sometimes  joined  by  Donn— might 
pantomime  a  number  with  a  com- 
plete "prop"  set.  Or  a  top  recording 
star  might  turn  up  to  pantomime  his 
own  latest  hit  and  dance  with  Donn's 
teen-age  guests.  .  .  .  Young  Bert 
Houle  makes  a  twice-weekly  appear- 
ance to  gales  of  laughter  and  applause 
for  his  pantomimes  and,  twice  a  week 
also,  Donn  calls  a  recess  from  records 
to  give  parents  an  off-the-campus 
look  at  teachers  from  the  Tri-State 
area  of  New  Hampshire,  Vermont  and 
northern  Massachusetts.  .  .  .  The  man 
behind  the  merriment,  Donn  Tibbetts, 
is  a  Manchester,  New  Hampshire,  na- 
tive. He  was  born  November  29,  1930, 
and  began  broadcasting  ten  years 
later — through  a  tea-strainer  over  a 
make-believe  network.  He's  loved 
radio  ever  since.  And,  though  greater 
metropolitan  centers  may  dangle  more 
glittering  radio  bait  before  him,  Donn 
refuses  to  bite  because  he  also  loves 
the  Granite  State  "where  mountains, 
beautiful  scenery,  lakes  and  fresh  air 


are  everyday  things  and  not  just  va- 
cation memories."  .  .  .  Donn  met  his 
wife  Jane  when  they  were  both  in 
high  school  and  he  followed  her  home 
to  find  out  where  she  lived.  The  ad- 
dress today  is  a  Manchester  apart- 
ment, just  a  few  minutes  from  the 
WMUR  studios.  Jane  and  Donn  share 
it  with  their  sons  Don,  3,  and  Gary, 
who  will  soon  blow  out  his  first  birth- 
day candle.  ...  A  home  movie  en- 
thusiast, Donn  has  taken  some  8200 
feet  of  film  of  his  family,  doing  his 
own  splicing,  editing  and  titling.    He 


enjoys  water-skiing  at  his  folks'  camp 
at  Lake  Massasecum  and,  as  of  last 
winter,  he  is  also  "an  amateur  snow 
skier."  For  the  future,  Donn  hopes 
"to  build  a  big  ranch  house  on  an  acre 
or  two  of  land,  with  plenty  of  room 
for  the  kids  to  play  and  ride  horses  if 
they  like."  The  land,  of  course,  will 
be  located  in  New  Hampshire,  where 
WMUR-TV  viewers  have  a  new  bit 
of  mountain  lore:  Anything  can  hap- 
pen on  Donn  Tibbetts'  shows,  but 
whatever  happens,  it's  sure  to  be  fun 
for  everyone. 


Favorite  movie  stars  for  shutterbug  Donn  are  Jane,  Don  and  baby  Gary. 


f 


WONDERFUL  NEW  EASY- TO -DO  PIN-CURL  PERMANENT 


NEW!   rc^te^t^iM,tu^itL(|^! 
GuJe4  imt  pwtuA£,-|aa£tfc|.  £<x>fcj 

NEW!  jJ(>ai«£wiAj  \jwM  wd  octet! 

NEW!  E/c&^u^liaiA.itqk  \al 


In  hairdos,  today's  look  is  the  soft  look,  and  Procter  &  Gamble's 
wonderful  new  pin-curl  home  permanent  is  especially  designed  to 
give  it  to  you.  A  PIN-IT  wave  is  soft  and  lovely  as  a  pin-curl  set, 
never  tight  and  kinky.  PIN-IT  is  so  wonderfully  different.  There's 
no  strong  ammonia  odor  while  you  use  it  or  left  in  your  hair  after- 
wards. It's  easy  on  your  hair,  too,  so  you  can  use  it  more  often.  And 
PIN-IT  is  far  easier  to  give.  You  can  do  it  all  by  yourself.  Just  put 
your  hair  up  in  pin  curls  and  apply  PIN-IT's  Waving  Lotion.  Later, 
rinse  and  let  dry.  With  self-neutralizing  PIN-IT,  you  get  waves  and 
curls  where  you  want  them  ...  no  resetting  needed  ...  a  perma- 
nent and  a  set  in  one  step.  For  a  wave  that  looks  soft  and  lovely 
from  the  very  first  day  and  lasts  weeks  and  weeks  — try  PIN-IT' 


"'    ,:■-,■■■■:.  ■  ■  ■  ■     J      '  '    ' 


si!*a-i 


BY  PROCTER  f>  GAMB1E 


-4^L"tkjt,  OuaJL  Gp  IjOWU  Cl/UdQWA- 


©1955    P   »   G 


. .  foot  -fo*.  it-  Im-  -tk&  c^axb  opM^fat  ^xckaqe. 


"•^ 


cJu  e  auiiful    zTiai 

E 


r 


c 


K 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR   THREE    DIFFERENT    HAIR   CONDITIONS 

A  Breck  Shampoo  helps  bring  out  the  soft,  natural  beauty 
of  your  hair.  There  are  three  Breck  Shampoos.  One  Breck 
Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair.  Another  Breck  Shampoo  is  for 
oily  hair.  A  third  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  normal  hair. 
A  Breck  Shampoo  is  mild  and  gentle  in  action  and  not 
drying  to  the  hair.  The  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  hair 
condition    leaves   your   hair   soft,    lustrous   and    fragrant. 

The  Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 


J  o 


_ 


H  N 
W 


H         BRECK 
YORK 


MANUFACTURING        CHEMISTS  •  SPRINGFIELD      J       MASSACHUSETTS 

CHICAGO  •  SAN  FRANCISCO  •  OTTAWA  CANADA 

Copyright  1955  by  John  II.  Brcclc  Inc. 


•  By  Jill  Warren 


Musicman  Johnny  Mercer  plans  some  clever  doings 
for  his  forthcoming  NBC-TV  show,  Musical  Chairs. 


"Living  dolls":  Audrey  Meadows  admires  the  newly  created 
replicas  of  herself  (as  Alice  Kramden)  and  her  sister  Jayne. 
The  dolls  come  with  changes  of  clothing  and  are  unbreakable. 


WHAT'S  NEW 


FROM 

TO  COAST 


Ted  Mack  is  back  on  television — finally,  after  a  couple 
of  false  starts  this  past  season — with  a  half-hour 
afternoon  show,  Monday  through  Friday,  on  NBC-TV 
called  Ted  Mack's  Matinee.  In  contrast  with  his  former 
Amateur  Hour  show,  which  featured  unknowns,  Ted's 
new  show  introduces  "undiscovered"  professionals,  with 
the  top  performers  awarded  a  five-day  engagement  on 
the  show. 

Truth  Or  Consequences,  one  of  the  top  radio  shows 
for  many  years  before  it  switched  to  video,  is  back  on  the 
air  again,  after  having  been  off  for  some  time.  It  has 
a  Wednesday-night  time  slot,  half-hour,  on  NBC,  with 
Jack  Bailey  handling  the  emcee  chores.  The  TV  version 
continues  in  the  Tuesday-night  schedule. 

The  Inner  Flame  is  the  new  name  for  Portia  Faces 
Life.  Cast  and  story  line  remain  unchanged  on  the  pop- 
ular CBS-TV  daytime  serial. 

Because  of  the  tremendous  number  of  requests  for 
repeat  telecasts  of  ABC-TV's  Disneyland  programs,  the 
network  has  been  running  return  performances  of  the 
very  popular  Walt  Disney  shows.    The  schedule  through 


June  22  will  include:  ''Davy  Crockett  at  the  Alamo," 
May  11;  "Wind  in  the  Willows,"  May  18;  "A  Story  of 
Dogs,"  May  25;  "Cameras  in  Africa"  and  "Beaver  Valley," 
June  1;  "From  Aesop  to  Hans  Christian  Andersen,"  June 
8;  "Man  in  Space,"  June  15;  and  "Cavalcade  of  Songs." 
June  22.  On  June  22  also,  Disney  will  introduce  an  en- 
tirely new  program  from  the  "Fantasyland"  realm  of 
Disneyland.  And,  early  next  fall.  Disney  will  launch  his 
new  Mickey  Mouse  Club,  an  hour-length  television  show 
for  children,  which  is  now  being  produced  in  Hollywood. 

Gary  Crosby  has  signed  an  exclusive  contract  with 
CBS  Radio,  so  it  looks  like  Papa  Bing  lost  out  in  his  plans 
for  Gary  to  finish  college.  The  Groaner  had  wanted  Gary, 
who  is  twenty-one,  to  get  his  diploma  before  embarking 
on  a  full-time  career  in  show  business.  Meanwhile. 
Gary  has  been  singing  on  the  Tennessee  Ernie  Show  on 
Mondays,  Wednesdays  and  Fridays,  and  CBS  is  planning 
to  star  the  lad  on  his  own  series  later.  Gary's  contract  with 
the  network  also  allows  for  some  guest  appearances  on 
CBS-TV,  such  as  the  one  he  did  recently  with  Jack  Bonny. 

Don  McNeill  and  his  Breakfast  {Continued  on  page  12) 


11 


Genial  Ted  Mack  is  back  on  TV 
presenting  undiscovered  talent. 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST  TO  COAST 

(Continued  from  page  11) 

Club  gang  are  now  being  heard  by  Ameri- 
can servicemen  stationed  overseas  in  a 
special  half-hour  version  of  the  morning 
variety  show,  beamed  through  the  Armed 
Forces  Radio  Service.  The  Monday  through 
Friday  radio  broadcasts  of  Breakfast  Club 
are  condensed  into  a  thirty-minute  tran- 
scription for  daily  transmission  to  the 
troops  abroad.  Servicemen  have,  in  addi- 
tion, been  receiving  the  programs  of  Mar- 
tin Block,  Fibber  McGee,  Tennessee  Ernie 
and  Bob  Hope. 

NBC -TV  has  a  new  summer  variety 
show,  which  may  be  scheduled  even  be- 
fore the  hot  weather  arrives.  It's  called 
Musical  Chairs,  and  will  star  that  talented 
singer-composer,  Johnny  Mercer.  Bill 
Leyden,  the  popular  Hollywood  disc 
jockey,  will  be  the  emcee,  and  Mel  Blanc, 
he  of  the  "Woody  Woodpecker"  voice,  will 
handle  the  comedy  corner.  Guest  stars 
will  be  top  recording  personalities. 

This  'n'  That: 

Funnyman  George  Gobel  will  probably 
make  his  first  movie  for  Paramount,  with 
the  title  still  to  be  chosen.  There  are  sev- 
eral tentative  ones — "Fast  Shuffle,"  "Don't 
Fall  in  Love  with  Strangers,"  "Don't  Play 
Cards  with  Strangers,"  "Take  It  Big,"  and 
"There  You  Are" — in  addition  to  twenty- 
three  other  suggestions,  believe  it  or  not. 

Ann  Sothern,  the  country's  most  popu- 
lar Private  Secretary,  is  trying  to  buy  the 
television  rights  to  her  old  movie  series, 
"Maizie."  Ann  doesn't  want  to  play  in  the 
series  herself,  but  wants  to  produce  it, 
using  another  actress,  for  her  newly 
formed  Vincent  Productions. 

Betty  Hutton  finally  wed  Alan  Liv- 
ingston, Capitol  Records  executive,  in  Las 
Vegas,  Nevada,  a  third  marriage  for  each. 
And,  about  the  same  time,  Martha  Raye 
began  to  have  marital  discords  with  her 
fifth  husband,  in  her  new  home  in  West- 
port,  Connecticut. 

Hoping  for  the  same  success  that  Lib- 
erace,  Frankie  Laine  and  Florian  ZaBach 
have  had  with  their  filmed  TV  shows, 
bandleader  Ina  Rae  Hutton  has  just  signed 
with  Guild  Films  to  shoot  thirty-nine 
half-hour    programs.      They'll    be    called 


12 


Private  Secretary  Ann  Sothern  wants 
to  create   a   "Maizie"   series  for  TV. 


Ina  Rae  Hutton  And  Her  All-Girl  Show, 
featuring  the  Hutton  gal  tooters,  and  all 
feminine  guest  artists. 

Donald  O'Connor  and  the  Texaco  Star 
Theater  will  not  be  partners  in  television 
as  of  the  end  of  the  current  cycle.  The 
Texaco  people  have  already  signed  Jimmy 
Durante  to  dp  all  thirty  shows  for  the 
1955-56  season,  with  fifteen  to  be  done  live 
and  fifteen  on  film. 

Joanie  O'Brien,  the  pretty  lass  who  sang 
on  the  Bob  Crosby  TV  show  and  with  Ten- 
nessee Ernie  on  radio,  has  temporarily 
retired  to  await  the  birth  of  her  first  baby. 
Joanie  is  Mrs.  Billy  Strange. 

CBS  Television  has  signed  exclusive 
contracts  with  four  performers  whom  they 
expect  to  build  into  big  TV  personalities: 
Barbara  Ruick,  the  blonde  songstress  and 
former  M-G-M  starlet;  actor  Gale  Gor- 
don; writer-comedian  Bob  Sweeney;  and 
Johnny  Carson,  a  comedian  who  will 
probably  have  his  own  laugh  show  this 
summer. 

NBC  has  been  doing  some  signing,  too. 
They  handed  producer-director  Max 
"Spectacular"  Liebman  a  new  five-year 
contract  providing  for  his  services  on  both 
the  network's  spectaculars  and  other  re- 
lated functions.  NBC  also  made  a  deal 
with  Jack  Webb.  The  contract  provides 
that  they  shall  have  first  call  on  his  ser- 
vices for  a  ten-year  period.  It  also  gives 
NBC  the  right  to  future  properties  Webb 
is  developing — among  them,  "Pete  Kelly's 
Blues,"  which  is  now  in  production  as  a 
movie  for  Warner  Brothers.  But  Webb 
also  has  plans  for  "Pete"  as  a  video-film 
series,    possibly    to   be    shown   next   year. 

Comedians  Bob  (Elliott)  and  Ray 
(Goulding)  are  now  back  on  the  network 
scene,  replacing  Dennis  James  as  emcees 
of  The  Name's  The  Same.  Dennis  reached 
an  amicable  parting  of  the  ways  with  the 
show's  producers  because  of  an  increasing 
stress  on  humorous  and  off-beat  commer- 
cials, which  he  just  didn't  feel  were  up 
his  alley. 

Mulling  The  Mail: 

Mrs.  M.  O.,  Bellefontaine,  O.:  Most  radio 
arid  television  performers  are  not  per- 
mitted to  accept  any  unsolicited  material 
for  their  shows,  and  this  also  applies  to 
songs.  .  .  ..  Mrs.  K.  R.,  Kansas  City,  Mo.: 
There  was  some  talk  a  while  back  that 
Irene  Beasley  would  have  her  own  TV 
show,  possibly  on  the  lines  of  her  very 
popular  Grand  Slam  radio  program,  but 
nothing  ever  came  of  it.  Miss  Beasley  still 
lives     at     Ardsley-on-the-Hudson,     New 


CBS-TV  is  making  big  plans  for 
pert  songstress   Barbara    Ruick. 


York,  and  is  not  active  at  all  professionally 
at  the  present  time.' .  .  .  Mrs.  H.  B.,  Topton, 
Pa.:  Spike  Jones  doesn't  do  a  regular  tele- 
vision series  at  the  present  time,  but  he 
may  have  a  scheduled  program  in  the 
fall.  He  just  recently  returned  from  a 
personal-appearance  tour  to  Australia.  .  .  . 
Miss  L.  H.,  Chicago,  111.:  Liberace  was 
named  Honorary  Mayor  of  Sherman  Oaks, 
California,  a  section  of  the  San  Fernando 
Valley,  where  he  has  his  home,  and  he  was 
"installed"   in   office   at  a   civic   gathering. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  .  .  .   ? 

Martha  Tilton,  who  sang  with  Curt 
Massey  on  radio  for  so  long?  Martha 
hasn't  worked  in  radio,  or  in  television, 
since  the  program  went  off  the  air,  but  has 
done  some  personal  appearances  at  the 
Orange  Show  and  at  benefits  in  California. 
She  is  presently  living  in  West  Los  An- 
geles with  her  husband,  Jim  Brooks,  and 
their  children. 

Curt  Massey,  who  sang  with  Martha 
on  the  same  show?  Since  the  program 
went  off,  Curt  has  been  spending  most 
of  his  time  with  his  family  at  their  ranch 
in  San  Diego  County,  and  hasn't  worked 
at  all.  However,  there  is  talk  at  NBC 
in  Hollywood  of  a  TV  show  for  him  this 
fall.  If  it  goes  through,  the  Massey-Tilton 
singing    combination    would    be    reunited. 

Hal  Peary,  The  Great  Gildersleeve,  whose 
air  show  was  so  popular  several  years 
ago?  Hal  has  been  doing  well  for  him- 
self with  a  local  early-morning  radio 
show  over  Station  KABC  in  Los  Angeles. 

Shep  Fields,  whose  "Rippling  Rhythm" 
dance  orchestra  has  been  heard  for  years 
on  remote  broadcasts  from  dance  spots 
all  over  the  country?  After  twenty-three 
years  of  touring  with  his  band,  Shep  re- 
cently settled  down  in  Houston,  Texas, 
and  has  taken  to  being  a  disc  jockey  over 
Station  KLBS  there. 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of  your 
favorite  people  or  programs,  or  wonder 
what  has  happened  to  someone  on  radio 
or  television,  drop  me  a  line — Miss  Jill 
Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd 
Street,  New  York  City  17,  N.  Y .,  and  I'll 
try  my  best  to  find  out  for  you  and  put 
the  information  in  the  column.  Unfor- 
tunately, we  don't  have  space  to  answer 
all  questions,  so  I  try  to  cover  those 
personalities  and  shows  about  whom  we 
receive  the  most  inquiries.  Sorry,  no 
personal  answers. 


How  to  make  your  life  a  bed  of  roses... 


i^y; 


{hu^i^n^L- 


'~7k£,  h&ijU/  4CMZ7 '^--^Cam^U  yU^7K^  &A. 


!%& 


fiAfW^L 


U^C^L  ^  C4 '<rus  /tfOv, 


(Z^> 


a^ 


cashmere  bouquet 


Cashmere 
Bouquet 

TfttCUM      PS  W6£  * 


59/ 

Plus  Tax 


13 


T 
V 
1 

14 


Only  Bobbi  is  specially  designed  to  give  the  softly  feminine  wave 
needed  for  this  new  "Bewitching"  hairdo.  No  nightly  settings  necessary. 


Only  softly  feminine  hairstyles  here 

because  these  hairdos  were  made  with  Bobbi,  the 
special  pin-curl  permanent— never  tight,  never  fussy 

These  pictures  show — better  than  we  can  tell — the  softly  feminine 
curls  and  waves  you  get  with  a  Bobbi  Pin-Curl  Permanent.  A  Bobbi 
is  specially  designed  to  look  soft  and  natural  from  the  very  first  day. 

A  Bobbi  gives  your*  hair  the  beauty,  the  body,  the  soft,  lovely  look; 
of  naturally  wavy  hair.  Your  curls  and  waves  are  exactly  where  you 
want  them.  And  they  stay  there  week  after  week  after  week.  Just 
put  your  hair  in  pin-curls.  Apply  Bobbi's  Special  Creme  Oil  Lotion. 
A  little  later,  rinse  with  water.  Let  dry,  brush  out. ..that's  all. 

If  you  love  softly  feminine  hairdos,  then  Bobbi  is  the  pin-curl 
permanent  for  you. 

New  20-Page  Hairstyle  Booklet.  Easy-to-follow  setting  instructions  for 
new  softly  feminine  hairstyles.  Hints!  Tips!  Send  your  name,  address 
with  10c  in  coin  to:  Bobbi,  Box  3600,  Merchandise  Mart,  Chicago,  Illinois. 


Just  pin-curls  and  Bobbi.  No  separate  neutralizes  no  curlers,  no  resetting.  Every- 
thing you  need  — New  Cremc  Oil  Lotion,  special  bobbi  pins.  #1.50  plus  tax. 


With  Bobbi  you  get  waves  exacdy  where  you 
want  them,  the  way  you  want  them.  Notice  the 
easy,  gentle  look  of  this  new  ""Sunrise"  hairdo. 


T 


Bobbi  is  made  especially  to  give  young,  free  and 
easy  hairstyles  like  this  ""Rosebud"  hairdo.  And  the 
curl  is  there  to  stay  —  in  all  kinds  of  weather. 


Soft,  Natural  right  from  the  start. .  .that's  the  ""Sea 
Breeze"  hairstyle  after  an  easy  Bobbi.  A  Bobbi 
Pin-Curl  Permanent  is  so  easy,  no  help  is  needed. 


Josephine  McCarthy  is  celebrating 

her  fifth  successful  year  as  WRCA-TV's 


Host  Herb  Sheldon  and  hostess  Josie  exchange  "good  mornings." 


The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating,  as  the  saying 
goes.  Likewise,  the  proof  of  Josephine  McCarthy's 
cooking  skill  is  in  the  hundreds  of  grateful  letters  she 
receives  each  day  from  WRCA-TV  viewers  who  look 
forward  to  her  sessions  on  The  Herb  Sheldon  Show  With 
Josephine  McCarthy,  weekdays  from  8:55  to  10  A.M. 
Now  in  her  fifth  year  at  WRCA-TV,  Josie  is  admired  and 
loved  as  a  person  and  as  one  of  the  finest  and  most  indus- 
trious culinary  experts.  .  .  .  Born  in  the  foothills  of  the 
Sierra  Nevada  mountains,  Josie  specialized  in  home  eco- 
nomics at  San  Francisco  Teachers'  College  and  the  Uni- 
versity of  California.  However,  she  did  not  use  her  skills 
professionally  until  she  was  left  a  widow  with  a  three- 
year-old  daughter  to  support.  Then  she  became  a  dieti- 
tian for  Schrafft's  chain  stores  and  later  was  a  food 
director  for  several  concerns.  She  made  her  radio  debut 
over  Station  WNBF  in  Binghamton,  New  York,  with  her 
own  program,  Mrs.  McCarthy  Goes  To  Market.  Then,  in 
1948 — after  broadcasting  on  the  Yankee  Network  for  12 
years — she  made  her  TV  debut  at  Station  WTVJ,  Miami, 
Florida.  She  joined  WRCA-TV  on  May  2,  1950.  .  .  .  Off- 
camera,  Josie  can  point  to  her  three-room  apartment, 
near  by  the  WRCA-TV  studios,  which  she  decorated 
herself.  She  had  originally  planned  to  have  it  done  by  a 
professional  but,  after  receiving  estimates  up  to  $3000, 
did  the  job  herself  for  about  $800.  .  .  .  Every  weekend, 
weather  permitting,  Josie  boards  a  plane  for  Cocoanut 
Grove,  Florida,  and  her  ranch-style  house  which  she 
shares  with  her  daughter  Millicent  and  ten-year-old 
granddaughter  Joan,  who  is  Josie's  pride  and  joy.  Joan 
is  an  active  Girl  Scout  and  Millicent  is  a  troop  leader. 


Culinary  Queen 


On  a  busman's  holiday,  Josie  prepares  to  entertain  dinner 
guests  by  setting  her  table  with  extra-large  chop  plates. 
At  the  office  (below),  she  and  her  secretary,  Mary  Ann 
Bernath,  answer  the  many  letters  received  from  her  viewers. 


"The  house  is  always  filled  with  Scouts  working  at  one 
project  or  another,"  laughs  Josie.  "Keeps  you  young,  al- 
ways having  young  people  around."  .  .  .  Josie's  main 
hobby  is  collecting  herbs  and  cookbooks — of  which  she 
has  more  than  200 — from  all  parts  of  the  world.  When 
her  viewers  write  in  asking  how  to  cook  such  dishes  as 
an  Italian  Easter  Wheat  Pie,  Josie  always  begins  her 
research  with  her  own  books.  .  .  .  Preparing  her  twenty  - 
minute  cooking  show  keeps  Josie  busy  ten  to  twelve 
hours  a  day,  but  she  still  finds  time  to  appear  at  store 
openings  and  speak  at  club  meetings.  She  is  always  eager 
to  help  others  and  is  often  heard  offering  advice  on  what 
to  feed  a  best  beau  or  how  to  plan  a  party  menu.  And, 
if  the  pressure  of  her  busy  schedule  ever  begins  to  get 
Josie  down,  she  always  uses  the  same  remedy:  "I  just 
stop  for  a  minute,"  she  says,  "and  give  thanks  for  my 
many  bountiful  blessings."  During  the  past  five  years, 
more  and  more  WRCA-TV  viewers  have  come  to  count 
Josie  as  one  of  their  blessings. 


15 


egg-sfra 

good  for 
your  hair/ 


slit 

j.      Ijlj 


^TH  HAJR-CONWHONING  ACTlOH 
2%  fresh  whole  egg 


See  how  exciting  this  new  luxury 
lather  makes  your  hair!  Glowing 
clean,  silky.  .  .  so  manageable! 
Conditions  any  hair.  That's  the 
magic  touch  of  SHAMPOO  PLUS  EGG! 
Try  it!  29«,  59«,  *1. 


YOU  hold  the  Key 


Frankie   Thomas,    Skippy    Blythe    and    Jack    Grimes    dispense    cheer    and    gifts. 


Those  who  bring  happi- 
ness into  the  lives  of  chil- 
dren with  muscular  dys- 
trophy find  their  greatest 
reward  in  just  a  humble 
thank-you,  or  a  grateful 
smile.  And,  as  can  be  seen 
here,  the  delight  of  those 
who  help — in  this  case, 
top  performers  in  broad- 
casting— almost  matches 
that  of  the  ones  they  help. 


Skippy  Blythe's  presents  and  Corny 
Clown's   jokes   produce   big   smiles. 


Marrowbone  the  dog  with  two  devoted  friends. 


Muscular  dystrophy  is  a  pro- 
gressive disease  which  attacks 
the    muscular    system,    robbing    a 
person  of  the  use  of  his  muscles. 
Although  it  attacks  thousands  of 
people  from  one  to  80  years  old,  the 
majority  of  cases  are  children  .  .  . 
and  they  rarely  live  beyond 
adolescence. 

Says  the  National  Foundation  for 
Muscular  Dystrophy:   "The  key  to 
the  muscular  dystrophy  problem  is 
help  ...  it  is  in  your  heart  and  hands. 
With  your  help  the  door  to  life  will 
be  unlocked  .  .  .  the  priceless  treasure 
of  a  muscular  dystrophy  cure  will 
be  in  reach  of  thousands  of  children, 
women,  and  men  .  .  .  who  offer  in 
return  a  grateful  prayer  of  thanks 
...  to  YOU."  And,  the  Foundation 
adds:    "Don't  give  till  it  hurts — 
just  give  till  it  helps!" 


DOCTORS    PROVE    a  one-minute    massage  with 

Palmolive  Soap  Can  Give  \bu  A 
Cleaner,  Fresher  Complexion  ...Today! 

GETS  HIDDEN  DIRT  THAT  ORDINARY  CLEANSING  METHODS  MISS! 


See  the  difference  with  your  own  eyes  I 


1.  Dirt  left  on  face  after  ordinary  cleansing ! 

Rub  your  face  hard  with  a  cotton  pad  after  ordinary  casual  cleansing 
with  any  soap  or  cold  cream.  You'll  see  that  you  didn't  remove  deep- 
down  dirt  and  make-up.  "Ordinary-clean"  is  just  superficially  clean! 


2.  Beautifully  clean  after  60-second  Palmolive  facial ! 

Rub  your  face  the  same  way  after  60-second  massage  with  Palmolive. 
Pad  is  still  snowy-white!  "Palmolive-clean"  is  deep-down  clean.  Your 
skin  is  free  of  clinging  dirt  that  casual  cleansing  misses. 


V  VET     Cr\     ACMTIVI     DA 


DOCTORS  PROVE 
PALMOLIVE'S 
BEAUTY  RESULTS! 


CAN  WORK  SO  THOROUGHLY 
YET  SO  GENTLY!  PALMOLIVE  BEAUTY  CARE  CLEANS 
CLEANER,  CLEANS   DEEPER,  WITHOUT  IRRITATION! 

No  matter  what  your  age  or  type  of  skin,  doctors  have 
proved  that  Palmolive  beauty  care  can  give  you  a  cleaner, 
fresher  complexion  the  very  first  time  you  use  it!  That's 
because  Palmolive  care  gets  your  skin  deep-down  clean  by 
removing  the  hidden,  clinging  dirt  that  casual  methods  miss. 

Just  massage  your  face  with  Palmolive's  rich,  gentle  lather 
for  60  seconds,  morning  and  night.  Rinse  and  pat  dry.  It's 
that  simple!  But  remember  .  .  .  only  a  soap  that  is  truly  mild 
can  cleanse  thoroughly  without  leaving  your  face  feeling 
drawn  and  uncomfortable.  That's  why  Palmolive's  mildness 
is  so  important  to  you.  It  lets  you  massage  a  full  minute 
without  irritation. 

Try  mild  Palmolive  Soap  today.  In  just  60  seconds,  you'll 
be  on  your  way  toward  new  complexion  beauty! 


^I&LomL 


17 


Why  are  more  and  more 

business  girls 

using  Tampax? 


■ 


Ask  the  company  doctor  or  the  staff 
nurse.  They're  very  apt  to  tell  you  that 
the  Tampax  user  is  much  more  likely  to 
take  "those  days"  in  her  stride.  But  the 
girls  themselves  are  still  most  impressed 
by  the  freedom  and  assurance  that 
doctor-invented  Tampax  gives.  Here  are 
some  of  the  things  they  say: 

"I  can't  be  bothered  with  all  that  other 
rigmarole;  Tampax  is  quick  and  easy  to 
change."  ...  "I  must  have  pro- 
tection that  prevents  odor."  .  .  . 
"No  telltale  bulges  for  me;  not, 
of  all  places,  in  the  office!"  .  .  . 
"Tampax  is  so  comfortable,  I 
almost  forget  it's  'time-of-the-month.'" 
Girls  starting  work  often  decide  on 
Tampax  because  of  admiration  for  some 
older,  perfectly  poised  woman  in  the 
organization  who  uses  it.  From  its  dainti- 
ness of  handling  to  its  ease  of  disposa- 
bility,  Tampax  seems  made  for  the 
woman  who  has  to  be  on  the  go  all  the 
time,  who  has  to  meet  people  with  charm 
and  assurance  under  any  circumstances. 
The  druggist  or  notion  counter  in 
your  neighborhood  carries  Tampax  in 
all  three  absorbencies:  Regular,  Super, 
Junior.  Month's  supply  goes  into  purse 
or  tucks  in  the  back  of  a  drawer.  Tampax 
Incorporated,  Palmer,  Mass. 


18 


Accepted  for  Advertising 
by  the  Journal  ol  the  American  Medical  Association 


Information  Booth 


Young  Baritone 

/  would  like  to  know  about  Steve  Law- 
rence, the  singer  on  Steve  Allen's  NBC-TV 
show,  Tonight.  Y.  TV.,  Duquesne,  Pa. 

A  network  vocalist  at  nineteen,  Steve 
Lawrence  began  his  singing  career  as  an 
assistant  to  his  father,  a  cantor.  He  is  one 
of  three  brothers,  all  of  whom  had  out- 
standing voices,  and  Steve  was  taught  to 
sing  in  the  synagogue  when  he  was  eight 
years  old.  .  .  .  Since  then,  his  entire  life 
has  been  centered  on  music — except  for 
a  three-year  "layoff,"  between  the  ages  of 
11  and  14,  when  his  voice  was  changing. 
Even  then,  Steve  studied  arranging  and 
composing.  .  .  .  When  he  entered  Thomas 
Jefferson  High  School  in  New  York  City, 
Steve  was  a  natural  for  the  glee  club.  A 
Jefferson  alumnus  heard  him  at  one  of 
the  club's  concerts  and  arranged  for  him 
to  sing  for  disc  jockey  Ted  Brown.  Ted 
sent  him  to  vocal  coach  Fred  Steele,  who 
has  trained  such  singers  as  Kitty  Kallen 
and  Eddie  Fisher.  After  months  of 
concentrated  study,  Steve  appeared  on  a 
local  New  York  show.  Ted  Brown  heard 
a  record  of  the  show  and  suggested  that 
Steve  audition  for  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent 
Scouts.  On  Steve's  first  try,  Arthur's  pro- 
duction staff  thought  the  youngster  wasn't 
quite  ready.  But  Steve  tried  again  after 
several  months.  This  time  he  went  on  the 
program  and  won.  ...  A  recording  con- 
tract was  the  next  step,  followed  by  a 
singing  spot  on  WRCA-TV's  Steve  Allen 
Show.  When  Steve  Allen  became  a  net- 
work star  on  Tonight,  so  did  Steve 
Lawrence. 

Newlywed 

Would  you  tell  me  a  little  about  Ann 

Hillary,  who  plays  Sandra  Talbot  on  The 

Brighter  Day,  on  CBS  Radio  and  CBS-TV? 

V.  H.,  Clearwater,  Fla. 

Titian-haired  Ann  Hillary  stepped  into 
the  role  of  Sandra  Talbot  on  The  Brighter 
Day,  her  first  radio  role,  immediately  after 
returning  from  a  long  honeymoon  in  Eng- 
land. Before  going  abroad  to  marry  play- 
wright  Frederick   Knott,    author   of   "Dial 


Ann  Hillary 

M  for  Murder,"  Ann  had  confined  her 
activities  to  stage  work,  including  a  season 
as  resident  ingenue  at  the  famous  Elitch's 
Gardens  in  Denver  and  a  Broadway  ap- 
pearance in  "Be  Your  Age."  .  .  .  Brown- 
eyed  and  five  feet,  six  inches  tall,  Ann 
claims  Jellico,  Tennessee,  as  her  birth- 
place. "It's  famed,"  she  says,  "as  the  home 
town  of  Grace  Moore,"  with  whom  Ann's 
father  sang  in  the  church  choir.  Ann  her- 
self sings  and  plays  the  piano.  ...  A  grad- 
uate of  the  University  of  Kentucky  and 
the  American  Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts 
in  New  York,  Ann  is  now  firmly  en- 
trenched as  a  radio  and  TV  actress.  She 
spends  her  spare  minutes  collecting 
French  Provincial  furniture  for  her  apart- 
ment, her  husband's  first  American  home. 
Ann  regards  cooking  as  one  of  the  finest 
creative  arts  but  claims  she  is  much  too 
impulsive  to  be  a  success  at  it. 

Jack-Of-AII-Trades 

Please  tell  me  about  Jack  Mahoney, 
who  plays  the  title  role  in  the  TV  series, 
The  Range  Rider.   Where  can  I  write  to 


hir, 


Steve  Lawrence 


Tall,  muscular,  and  of  French-Irish- 
Cherokee  Indian  ancestry,  Jack  Mahoney 
was  born  in  Chicago  and  made  his  stage 
debut  at  five  when  he  "toe-danced"  in  a 
school  playlet.  But  he  had  no  serious 
thoughts  of  a  show-business  career  and 
went  on  to  become  a  football,  basketball, 
trapeze  and  swimming  star  in  high  school. 
He  earned  good  grades  as  well,  sang  in 
several  operettas,  and  won  an  athletic 
scholarship  to  the  University  of  Iowa. 
There  he  set  a  national  swimming  record 
for  the  40-yard  free  style.  .  .  .  After  two 
years  of  pre-med  courses,  Jack  grew  rest- 
less and  took  off  for  California  where  he 
became  a  swimming  instructor.  Next  he 
became  a  mechanic  at  an  airfield  and 
learned  to  fly,  as  well.  He  spent  the  war 
years  as  a  fighter  pilot  with  the  Marine 
Corps,  then  returned  to  California  to  take 
a  short-lived  venture  in  raising  Arabian 
horses  and  enroll  at  the  Del  Powers  Theat- 
rical School.  When  no  acting  jobs  were 
forthcoming,  Jack  went  to  work  falling 
off  horses  and  tall  (Continued  on  page  20) 


K.  H.,  Stockton  Springs,  Me. 


"REGULAR"   HEIGHT  ^QC  "EXTRA   PLUMP"  ZL95 

usually  5.95  ■  usually  7.95       ^ 


"KING   SIZE"     O95 

usually  9.95     ^ 


PLUMP 

SAVINGS  ON  PLUMP 

PLAVTEX9(^)  PILLOWS 


Every  pillow  first-quality. 

Every  pillow  made  the  Playtex  way, 

of  whipped  foam  latex. 

Always  plump,  always  cool, 

permanently  non-aller genie. 


Save  now  — while  savings  are  plump  — while  you  can  afford 
to  modernize  every  bed  in  your  house  with  PLA'J  1  'EX 
"HEART  REST"  PILLOWS.  They're  the  best  buy  in  the  world 
even  at  regular  prices  — a  must  buy  at  our  Ma>  \\  bite  Sale 
reductions/  Remember,  you're  not  buying  just  pillows— 
you're  buying  sleep  —  deep,  cool,  restful,  healthful  sleep  .  .  . 
the  kind  only  Playtex  know-  how  to  build  into  a  pillow. 
Every  pillow  is  zipper-covered  in  extra-lino  sanforized  cotton 
with  corded  edges.  E\ery  one  is  period— first  quality. 


©19=5   International  Latex  Corp'n.  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Dover  Del 


19 


New  Play  tex 


Bra 


OF  ELASTIC  AND  NYLON 

"Custom-contoured"  to  flatter,  feel  and 
fit  as  if  fashioned  for  you  alone  ...  no 
matter  what  size  or  in-between  size  you 
are/  The  secret  is  in  the  bias  cut  elastic- 
side  panel  that  self-adjusts  to  your  meas- 
urements. The  drama  is  in  the  nylon  cups 
that  lift  and  lure  into  the  high,  round  look 
of  Paris.  The  magic  is  the  Playtex  Living 
Bra  . . .  the  most  fitting,  most  beautifying, 
fastest  selling  bra  in  America/  See  it— 
you'll  want  it/  Wear  it— you'll  love  it/ 


'"fetoa 


?«Hi 


«**>i,l 


20 


Look  for  the  PLAYTEXt  LIVING!  BRA*  in  the  heavenly 
blue  package  at  department  stores  and  specialty  shops  everywhere. 
In  gleaming  WHITE,  wonderfully  washable— without  ironing/ 

Sizes   32A-40C   $3.95  tTrodemark      'U.S.A.  ana  foreign  patents  pending 

©  1056  International  Latex  Corporation  . .  PLAYTEX  PARK . .  Dover  Del 
In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd.  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont. 


Information  Booth 

(Continued  from  page   18) 


Jack  Mahoney 

buildings  and  fighting  duels  as  a  stunt 
man.  He  was  spotted  by  Armand  Schaefer, 
president  of  Gene  Autry  Enterprises,  who 
signed  him  for  some  Autry  films  and  then 
to  play  the  lead  in  The  Range  Rider  TV 
series.  .  .  .  Off  camera,  Jack  is  married 
to  Margaret  Field,  a  former  actress. 
They  have  a  daughter,  Princess  Melissa. 
Margaret's  two  children  from  a  previous 
marriage  also  live  with  them.  An  all- 
around  athlete,  Jack  is  also  a  student  of 
Oriental  philosophies,  mystic  religions  and 
Indian  lore.  He's  a  "great  cook,"  loves 
tangy  foreign  dishes,  black  roses,  emer- 
alds, pastels,  shopping  for  his  wife  and 
sailing.  Moccasins  are  his  usual  footwear 
and  he's  most  comfortable  in  shorts,  bell- 
bottom  sailor  pants  or  levis.  He  treasures 
a  ring  made  of  a  4500-year-old  scarab  and 
always  wears  a  small  crystal  ball  contain- 
ing a  mustard  seed.  You  can  write  to  him 
c/o  The  Range  Rider,  Flying  A  Pictures, 
6920  Sunset  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  members. 
If  you  are  interested  in  joining,  write  to 
the  address  given — not  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Gisele  MacKenzie  Fan  Club,  c/o  Holly 
Fleischman,  1616  E.  50th  PL,  Chicago,  111. 

Eddie  Fisher  Fan  Club,  c/o  Martha 
Jane  Gates,  Box  458,  Stinnett,  Texas. 

Dotty  Mack  Fan  Club,  c/o  Andy  Hal- 
lum,  202  Beverly  PI.,  Cayton  9,  Ohio. 

The  Club  Crosby  (Bing),  c/o  Margaret 
Plaga,   806   Adrian  Ave.,   Jackson,   Mich. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 

something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


Puts  Dancing  Highlights  In  Your  Hair! 


NEW  FORMULA  OUT-LATHERS, 
OUT-SHINES  OTHER  SHAMPOOS 


MAKES  YOUR  HAIR  EXCITING  TO  TOUCH! 


Hair's  so  satiny  after  a  Helene  Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion  Sham- 
poo it  irresistibly  calls  for  a  love-pat!  You  can't  always  wear 
a  satin  dancing  dress  for  the  man  in  your  life— but  now,  with 
Helene  Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo  he'll  see  the  satiny 
beauty  of  your  hair  every  day!  You'll  find  that  never  before 
in  your  shampoo  experience  has  your  hair  had  so  much  shim- 
mer, so  much  softness. 


Double  Lanolin  Is  The  Reason 

Enriches  Your  Hair  With  Beauty 
Instead  of  Drying  It! 


Lanolin  Lotion  was  pur- 
posely formulated  with 
twice  as  much  lanolin  as 
ordinary  shampoos.  That 
means  double  the-  lanolin 
protection  against  dryness 
...double  the  lanolin  polish 
and  beauty  for  your  hair. 
For  even  problem  hair  — 
hair  that's  had  its  beauty 
oils  dried  away... washed 
away... bleached  away... 
benefits  astonishingly  from 
this  double-lanolin  lather. 
It  not  only  feels  twice  as 
rich— it  actually  is  twice  as 
rich.  Don't  confuse  this 
utterly  new  Helene  Curtis 
Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo 
with  any  so-called  "lotion" 
or  "lanolin"  shampoo  you've 
ever  tried  before. 


PROOF  THAT  NEW  SHAMPOO 
OUT-LATHERS  OTHER  BRANDS 


Lanolin  Lotion 


Helene  Curtis  Lanolin 
Lotion  Shampoo  out-lathers 
four  other  brands  given  the 
Cylinder-Foam  Test. 


Billows  of  Fleecy  Foam 
Leave  Hair  Shimmering, 
Obedient,  "Lanolin-Lovely* 


You'll  discover  an  amazing  difference  the  moment  this 
revolutionary  shampoo  touches  your  hair.  For  never 
before  has  any  shampoo  burst  into  such  mountains  of 
snowy  lanolin  lather— lather  that  actually  POLISHES 
hair    clean.    Because    only 


Helene  Curtis  Lanolin 
Lotion  Shampoo  brings  you 
this  foaming  magic.  No 
old-fashioned  "lazy-lather" 
shampoo  can  shine  your 
hair  like  this— 'til  it  shim- 
mers like  satin  in  the  moon- 
light! 

The  radiance  of  your  hair 
shampooed  this  new  way 
will  be  instantly  visible  to 
everyone  —  but  you,  your- 
self, are  the  best  judge  of 
results.  So  after  you've 
brushed  your  Lanolin  Lo- 
tion shampooed  hair,  take 
your  hand  mirror  and  stand 
in  a  strong  light.  You'll  see 
how  much  more  brilliance 
dances  in  your  hair! 

And  this  shampoo  is  so 
good  for  hair... for  there's 
twice  the  lanolin  in  it!  It 
can't  dry  your  hair  or  leave 
it  harsh,  brittle  and  hard  to 
handle.  Instead,  it  leaves 
your  hair  in  superb  condi- 
tion—supple, temptingly 
soft,  far  easier  to  manage. 
Tangles  slip  away  at  the 
touch  of  your  comb!  Your 
waves  come  rippling  back 


OCEANS  OF  LATHER 

EVEN  IN 

HARD  WATER! 

An  amazing  built-in 
water  softener  in  this 
Lanolin  Lotion  Sham- 
poo gives  you  piles  of 
lather  that  rinses  quick, 
leaves  hair  bright— even 
in  the  hardest  water! 


deeper,  firmer,  and  more 
pliantly  lovely  than  ever 
before. 

So  let  this  sensational 
shampoo  discovery  bring 
out  the  thrilling  beauty  hid- 
den in  your  hair!  All  the 
vibrant,  glowing  tone... 
the  natural  softness.  Treat 
your  hair  to  Helene  Curtis 
Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo— 
29c,  590  or  $1.  On  sale 
everywhere! 


21 


Replies  From  Survey  Reveal: 

9  Ml  01 1© 

NURSES 

swisiDOUCHINfi"™ 

ZONITE 

FDR  FEMININE  HYGIENE 


22 


What  Greater  Assurance  Can  a 
Bride-to-be  or  Married  Woman  Have 

Women  who  value  true  married  happi- 
ness and  physical  charm  know  how 
essential  a  cleansing,  antiseptic  and  de- 
odorizing douche  is  for  intimate  femi- 
nine cleanliness  and  after  monthly 
periods. 

Douching  has  become  such  a  part  of 
the  modern  way  of  life  an  additional 
survey  showed  that  of  the  married 
women  who  replied: 
83.3%  douche  after  monthly  periods. 
86.5%  at  other  times. 
So  many  women  are  benefiting  by  this 
sanitary  practice — why  deny  yourself? 
What  greater  "peace  of  mind"  can  a 
woman  have  than  to  know  zonite  is  so 
highly  regarded  among  nurses  for  the 
douche? 

ZONITE's  Many  Advantages 

Scientific  tests  proved  no  other  type 
liquid  antiseptic-germicide  for  the 
douche  of  all  those  tested  is  so  power- 
fully effective  yet  safe  to  body 
tissues  as  zonite.  It's  positively  non- 
poisonous,  non-irritating.  You  can  use 
zonite  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A 
zonite  douche  immediately 
washes  away  odor-causing 
deposits.  It  completely  de- 
odorizes. Leaves  you  with  a 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence. Inexpensive.  Costs 
only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 

ZONITE— The  Ideal  "ALL-PURPOSE" 
Antiseptic-Germicide 


New  Patterns 
for  You 


4714 

SIZES 
34-48 


9048— This  gay  casual  wraps  and  ties. 
Slip  into  it  in  a  jiffy.  Opens  flat  for  iron- 
ing. Use  colorful  rickrack  trimming. 
Misses'  Sizes  12-20.  Size  16  takes  4% 
yards  35-inch  fabric.   350 

9068 — Cool,  scooped-neck  dress  plus 
cover-up  bolero  makes  an  outfit  you'll 
wear  everywhere.  Misses'  Sizes  12-20;  40. 
Size  16  dress,  41/4  yards  35-inch  fabric; 
bolero  requires  1%  yards.   350 

4714 — Full-cut  to  flatter  the  larger  fig- 
ure. Note  extra-wide  bodice  straps,  built- 
up  backs  to  conceal  bra.  Women's  Sizes  34- 
48.  Size  36  blouse  and  skirt,  4V4  yards  35- 
inch  fabric;  bra  and  shorts,  2%  yards.  350 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for 
each  pattern  to:  TV  RADIO  MlRROR, 
Pattern  Department,  P.  O.  Box  137, 
Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11, 
New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each 
pattern  for  first-class  mailing. 


You  are  young  at  heart  listening  to  MUTUAL — 
the  radio  network  for  all  America . . . 

...there's  your  "COKE  TIME"  favorite, 

EDDIE  FISHER,  TUES.,  THURS.,  7:45  pm  EOT 

...On  MUTUAL  RADIO  there's 

YOUNG  LIVING  with  CLAUDIA  HATCH- 

starring  the  talented  Young  Living  Editor  of  Seventeen 
—  for  youthful  listeners  (of  all  ages)  on 
SATURDAY,  11:55  to  12  noon  EOT- then... 

There's  young  romance  with  young  singer 
JOHNNY  DESMOND  whose  heart-throb  notes 
thrill  millions  at  PHONORAMA  TIME  on 
SATURDAY  mornings,  11:30  to  11:55  EOT,  and . . . 


...You  will  all  be  young  at  heart  and  very  much  alive— listening  to 

EDDIE  FISHER,  CLAUDIA  HATCH, 

JOHNNY  DESMOND,  LES  PAUL  and  MARY  FORD 

and  you'll  know,  too,  that  "Radio's  Alive  in  '55" 
on  the  565-plus  stations  of  the 

MUTUAL  BROADCASTING  SYSTEM 


See  local  listings  tor  program  time  in  your  area. 


23 


L 


mother 
and  daughter  make 
a  hit... 
in  dresses 
dyed- alike  with 


No  need  to  spend  big  money  to 

have  those  appealing 
mother-and-daughter  outfits  you 
see  in  the  stores.  Any  simple 
dress  of  yours  can  be  a  twin  to 

"Susie's"  when  they're  dyed 
to  match  .  .  .  with  Rit.  It's  so 
easy,  such  fun,  lots  of  mothers  are 
even  tinting  little  slips  and 
panties  to  match  their  own 
Rit-colored  nylon  underthings! 


All 
Purpose 


The  finest  dye . 

the  high  concentrate  dye  . 

and  only 


W 


24 


Also  available  in  Canada 

RIT  PRODUCTS  CORPORATION 

1437  W.  Morris  St.,  Indianapolis  6 


ime  Diary 


All  programs  are  heard  Monday  through  Friday;  consult 
local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


BACKSTAGE  WIFE  Actor  Larry  Noble 
now  knows  something  of  the  despair  to 
which  his  wife  Mary  had  been  driven 
through  his  association  with  Elise  Shep- 
herd, for  in  her  efforts  to  develop  interests 
of  her  own  Mary  has  become  strangely 
entangled  with  film  producer  Malcolm 
Devereaux.  At  first  drawn  to  Mary  by  her 
possibilities  as  a  film  star,  Devereaux  now 
knows  he  is  in  love  with  her.  And  Larry 
believes  the  worst.    NBC  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  BAY  Even  if  his  son 
had  not  fallen  in  love  with  Sandra,  Rev- 
erend Richard  Dennis  would  have  taken 
a  great  interest  in  the  man  who  followed 
Sandra  to  New  Hope,  for  he  sensed  from 
the  first  that  Robert  Ralston  was  a  thor- 
oughly evil  man.  Ralston's  murder  in- 
creases Dr.  Dennis'  concern,  for  he  cannot 
stand  by  and  see  innocent  people  suf- 
fering from  the  aftermath  of  such  a  wicked 
life.  Will  he  endanger  himself  for  justice? 
CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

CONCERNING      MISS      MARLOWE 

The  breakdown  of  Kit  Christy  throws 
Maggie  Marlowe's  life  into  an  emotional 
turmoil.  If  the  girl  is  her  daughter,  can 
she  ever  love  her  again — and  if  she  is  not, 
can  she  ever  be  free  of  responsibility 
for  her?  Struggling  to  find  the  truth, 
Maggie  counts  heavily  on  Jim  Gavin's 
help,  not  suspecting  how  badly  Jim  is 
crippled  by  the  emotional  demands  left 
over  from  his  past  and  his  family  ties. 
NBC-TV. 

THE  BOCTOR'S  WIFE  A  rising 
young  doctor  like  Dan  Palmer  needs  an 
attractive,  intelligent  wife — but  does  he 
need  one  who  has  been  called  "remarka- 
ble" by  some  of  the  town's  most  important 
men?  If  Julie  gets  a  reputation  for  being 
too  clever,  will  Dan's  career  suffer?  Or 
will  she  be  able,  as  she  was  in  the  case 
of  the  children's  hospital,  to  maneuver  so 
tactfully  behind  the  scenes  that  she  wins 
her  goal  without  stepping  on  toes?  NBC 
Radio. 

FIRST  LOVE  Having  weathered  the 
first,  almost  fatal,  storm  of  her  married 
life,  Laurie  has  made  certain  plans  and 
promises  to  herself  about  the  future.    She 


knows  that  Zach  will  always  be  difficult  to 
live  with,  and  she  feels  strong  enough  now 
to  make  all  the  adjustments  she  once  dis- 
dained. But  is  there  a  trial  waiting  for 
Laurie  which  she  could  not  possibly  have 
anticipated?     NBC-TV. 

THE  GREATEST  GIFT  Dr.  Eve  Allen 
finds  it  hard  to  know  how  best  to  help  her 
troubled  younger  sister,  whose  broken 
marriage  and  serious  drinking  problem 
leave  small  hope  for  her  future.  And 
through  Fran  a  new  complication  may  af- 
fect Eve's  professional  life,  for  Ned  Black- 
man  appears  to  be  something  besides  an 
attractive,  understanding,  tolerant  man. 
What  is  his  connection  with  the  eager 
young  couple  who  want  a  baby?    NBC-TV. 

THE  GUIBING  LIGHT  Despite  the 
tragic  mistakes  she  has  already  made, 
Kathy  is  young  enough  to  profit  by  the 
important  truth  she  realized  when  her  ex- 
husband,  Dr.  Dick  Grant,  disappeared. 
Recognizing  she  still  loves  him  has  kept 
Kathy  from  deceiving  herself  into  a  false 
romance  with  Dr.  Kelly.  But,  far  away, 
Dick  tries  to  launch  a  new  life  and  in- 
evitably makes  new  contacts  that  may  be- 
come very  important  to  him.  CBS-TV 
and  CBS  Radio. 

HAWKINS  FALLS  The  only  important 
thing  wrong  with  life  in  a  small  town  is 
that  one  knows  too  much  about  one's 
neighbors,  and  vice  versa.  Lona  and  her 
husband  Dr.  Floyd  Corey  haven't  had  too 
many  secrets  to  keep  from  their  friends, 
but  sometimes  they  would  be  glad  if  a 
doctor's  work  didn't  almost  force  him  to 
carry  around  the  secrets  of  others.  Is  one 
of  these  secrets  working  up  to  a  problem 
for  them?     NBC-TV. 

HILLTOP  HOUSE  Julie's  husband, 
Reed  Nixon,  is  a  successful  business  man, 
and  he  sees  nothing  wrong  in  agreeing 
with  Julie's  cousin  Nina  that  her  husband 
Dr.  Jeff  Browning  will  have  to  put  up  a 
bigger  front  if  he  expects  to  become  a  suc- 
cessful specialist.  Julie  is  concerned  over 
Reed's  inadvertent  interference  in  the 
Brownings'  affairs,  but  she  may  have  to 
interfere  herself  to  keep  Nina  from  a  dras- 
tic mistake.     CBS  Radio. 


THE  iWEtt  FLAME  Pretty,  restless 
Dorie  Blake  turned  up  just  at  the  worst 
moment  in  Portia  Manning's  marriage, 
when  Walter's  resentment  over  his  wife's 
ability  made  him  increasingly  bitter  about 
what  he  felt  to  be  his  own  inadequacy. 
Now  the  situation  is  complicated  by  the 
serious  trouble  in  which  Walter  finds 
himself.  Despite  his  promises  to  himself 
and  Portia,  will  his  affection  for  Dorie  de- 
velop into  something  else?  CBS-TV. 

JOYCE  JORDAN,  M.D.  Joyce's  efforts 
to  help  the  Bellmans  rebuild  their  fam- 
ily life  go  far  beyond  her  duties  as  a  doc- 
tor, but  she  knows  that  because  they  all 
respect  her  she  may  be  able  to  give  them 
their  only  chance.  How  will  she  protect 
herself  if  her  advice — which  has  been 
called  meddling — should  lead  to  some  un- 
expected and  unhappy  results?  Will  law- 
yer Mike  Hill,  rushing  to  her  defense,  re- 
veal the  truth  about  his  feelings?  NBC 
Radio. 

JUST  PLAIN  BILL  After  the  difficul- 
ties which  beset  his  own  family  had  been 
straightened  out,  Bill  Davidson  was  once 
more  free  to  turn  to  helping  with  the 
troubles  of  his  friends.  But,  even  though 
Bill  feels  that  it  is  his  mission  in  life  to 
help  when  he  can,  he  sometimes  wonders 
if  he  is  right  in  exposing  his  loved  ones 
to  the  dangerous  consequences  that  often 
result  from  other  people's  battles.  NBC 
Radio. 

LORENZO  JONES  Belle,  believing  she 
has  Roger  Caxton's  help,  fights  desperately 
to  help  Lorenzo  regain  his  memory  of  their 
marriage.  But  Roger  now  has  other  mo- 
tives, and  by  careful  scheming  has  suc- 
ceeded in  making  Belle  and  Lorenzo  sus- 
picious of  each  other.  As  Lorenzo  is 
wracked  by  doubts  and  self-distrust,  is  it 
possible  that  he  will  draw  farther  away 
from  Belle,  and  make  their  separation  ir- 
revocable?    NBC  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Nobody  knows  more 
surely  than  Paul  Raven  what  an  implaca- 
ble enemy  he  has  in  his  ex-wife  Judith — 
or  how  desperately  she  will  fight  to  ruin 
his  marriage  to  Vanessa.  Frantically  try- 
ing to  protect  Van,  Paul  does  not  realize 
he  is  driving  her  away.  And  Van's  sis- 
ter Meg,  entangled  with  Hal  Craig,  creates 
an  even  greater  danger  as  she  finds  herself 
unable  to  draw  back  from  an  attack  she 
regrets.    CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  Ever  since  their  first 
meeting,  Gladys  and  Joe  have  been  happy 
together  despite  the  difficulties  that  kept 
coming,  one  after  the  other,  to  compli- 
cate their  romance.  But  the  birth  of  their 
child  is  the  biggest  trial  yet,  for  not  even 
Ma  is  sure  that  Gladys  could  weather  the 
tragedy  fate  may  have  in  store.  If  ever 
Ma's  wisdom  and  strength  have  been  need- 
ed by  her  loved  ones,  Gladys  and  Joe  need 
them  now.    CBS  Radio. 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  As  Leslie  North- 
urst  continues  his  attempts  to  wrest  the 
title  and  estates  away  from  Sunday's  hus- 
band, Lord  Henry  Brinthrope,  Sunday 
searches  desperately  for  a  way  to  foil  the 
schemes  of  this  suave  but  vicious  man. 
What  will  happen  when  Sunday  is  forced 
to  conclude  that  Lord  Henry  would  be  bet- 
ter off  without  her?  Will  Lord  Henry 
realize  in  time  what  lies  behind  her 
strange  behavior?     CBS  Radio. 

(Continued  on  page  80) 


ALL    PATTERNS    MADE    IN    U.S.A. 


NEW 
BRIGHT    FUTURE 


SPRING    GARDEN 


MAY    QUEEN 


You  can  see 

your  shining  future  in 


the  world's  most  precious  silverplate 

Like  love,  Holmes  &  Edwards  has  a  glow  that  lasts!  It's  the  only  silverplate 
with  extra  sterling  inlaid  at  backs  of  bowls  and  handles  of  most-used  pieces 
.  .  .  for  extra  years  of  silver  beauty.  52-piece  set  for  8  in  chest,  S84.50. 


-'s^-'Two  blocks  of  sterling  inlaid  at  backs  of  bowls   *^~~ 

and  handles  promise  longer,  lovelier  silver  life. 

HOLMES  &  ED\mHDS 

STERLING    INLAID    SILVERPLATE 

MADE   ONLY   BY   THE   INTERNATIONAL   SILVER   COMPANY 


25 


LILTING,  LEAN  and  LIKABLE 


That's  Carl  Stuart, 
who  has  captivated 
New  Englanders  with  his 
wonderful  country  music 


Carl,  who  taught  himself  to  play  the 
guitar,  gets  a  request  from  a  young  fan. 


26 


Singing  deejay  Carl  Stuart  presents  live  and  recorded  country  music. 


Home  is  a  five-room  ranch-style  house 
in  the  region  Carl  and  his  mother  love. 


A  young  man  from  Kansas,  Carl  Stuart — wearing  a 
broad-brimmed  hat  under  which  the  eyes  twinkle 
and  the  grin  is  wide  and  handsome — brings  a  breath  of 
fresh  mountain  air  to  the  very  pleased  residents  of 
Boston  and  all  points  within  hearing  range  of  Station 
WCOP.  Twenty-six-year-old  Carl  plays  recorded  country 
music  and  sings,  to  his  own  guitar  accompaniment,  as 
he  stars  on  Hayloft  Jamboree,  heard  weekdays  from 
9  P.M.  to  midnight,  and  Saturdays  from  8  P.M.  to  midnight. 
Carl  also  devotes  some  time  on  each  program  to 
inspirational  music.  He  feels — and  his  listeners'  reactions 
bear  him  out — that  America  is  returning  to  its  deep- 
seated  belief  in  God.  .  .  .  Carl's  career  started  with 
long-hair  music  but,  in  between  lessons  in  classical  piano 
playing,  he  would  listen  to  country  music  on  the  radio. 
One  day  he  borrowed  his  brother's  guitar  and,  after  that, 
the  piano  ran  a  poor  second.  Today,  Carl  owns  four 
guitars,  including  the  one  he  borrowed  from  his  brother 
Alfred.   The  family  still  argues  about  whether  Carl  ought 
to  return  this  one.  .  .  .  Carl's  professional  radio  debut 
came  in  1939  and,  between  then  and  1948,  his  role  as  a 
country  and  folk  singer  took  him  all  over  the  eastern 
part  of  the  United  States.   The  Stuarts  fell  in  love  with 
New  England  and,  in  1948,  they  settled  there  and  Carl 
began  broadcasting  on  Massachusetts  stations  and  leading 
an  eleven-piece  band  at  personal  appearances.  .  .  . 
During  the  Korean  war,  Carl  served  with  the  Armed 
Forces  Special  Services,  entertaining  troops  throughout 
the  country.   Then,  in  1953,  he  became  singing  deejay 
on  Hayloft  Jamboree.  .  .  .  Last  February,  Carl  realized 
a  long-held  ambition  when  he  guested  on  Grand  Ole  Opry. 
Featured  at  the  recent  World's  Championship  Rodeo  in 
the  Boston  Garden,  Carl  played  a  big  part  in  drawing 
the  capacity  crowd  of  more  than  13,000.  .  .  .  One  of 
Boston's  most  eligible  bachelors,  Carl  lives  with  his  mother 
and  brother  in,  naturally,  a  ranch  house  in  near-by 
Randolph.  There  are  no  horses  or  cattle  within  twenty 
miles  but  the  neighbors  enjoy  Carl's  exuberant  bursts 
of  "Home  on  the  Range"  and  watching  him  leave  for  work 
in  his  "country"  clothes.    And,  judging  by  the  mail  that 
pours  into  WCOP's  studios,  most  everybody  in  Boston 
feels  mighty  neighborly  toward  this  easygoing  guy 
with  a  guitar,  Carl  Stuart. 


I  dreamed  I  was  a  deswntnq  woman 

0/  q/ 


3f& 


mm\ 


Ns* 


m  of  a  bra:  Maidenform's  Chansonette    m 
|e  satin,  cotton  broadcloth,  dacron  cotton  ba 

|*  PAT.  OFF,        <t:t95S   MAIDEN    FORM    BRASSIER!  to       INC  CO: 


EXTRA      REASON 
AMERICA'S      NO.   I 


LOVE 
EAUXV 


SOAR  ! 


like  getting 

this  extra 
one  free ! 


4 


FOR    THE    PRICE    OF 


3 


i 


THANK 

t  you 


Because  you  love  value  ...  A 

You've  wade 

Personal  Size  Ivory 
Americans  No.  1 

Beauty  Soap  !  ,„  I 


4  cakes  of  pure,  mild  Personal  Size  Ivory  cost 

about  the  same  as  3  cakes  of  other  leading  toilet  soaps  ! 

Extra  savings — and  in  the  bargain — the  wonderful  purity  and 
famous  mildness  of  Ivory!  And  remember,  the  milder  your  beauty 

soap,  the  prettier  your  skin.  More  doctors  recommend  pure, 
mild  Ivory  for  baby's  skin — and  yours — than  any  other  soap.  So, 

add  it  up:  extra  soap  for  your  money  .  .  .  extra  beauty  for  you 
— a  radiant  freshness  America  calls  "That  Ivory  Look!" 


PERSONAL     SIZE      IVORY      IS     YOUR      BEST      BEAUTY      BUYI 


ie  Gleoson 


<p  0 


J. 


Working  with  Jackie,  Art  Carney  and 
I  learned  to  respect  him — not  only  as 
a  master  showman  and  comedian — 
but  as  a  sensitive,  considerate  person. 


«* 


I 


I 

m 
in 


By  AUDREY  MEADOWS 

All  clowning  aside,  if  s  a  privilege 
to  tell  the  world  about  my  boss— 
and  fellow  "Honeymooner"! 


Just  m  case  I  might  be  accused  of  "apple  polishing"  because 
Jackie  Gleason  is  my  boss,  I  had  better  start  with  a  few  of  his 
faults  before  I  tell  why  everybody  loves  the  man!  They  do 
love  him,  you  know.  The  people  who  work  with  him  now, 
and  the  ones  who  knew  him  when  he  was  a  struggling  comic 
in  down-at-the-heel  amusement  spots  (they  will  tell  you  he 
has  never  forgotten  any  kindness  done  for  him  in  those 
rough,  uphill  days).  The  people  who  watch  him  on  television. 

See  \ext   Page 


29 


There's  an  electricity  about  Jackie,  on  stage  or  out  of 
doors.  He's  always  doing  something  to  cheer  others,  and 
appreciates  it  so  much  when  others  do  something  for  him — ■ 
like  that  birthday  party  while  he  was  still  on  crutches. 


Why  everyone  loves  Jackie  Gleason 

(Continued) 

and  who  have  put  and  kept  him  at  the  top.  And  all 
the  little  people  he  has  helped,  because  he  is  too 
l-ind  ever  to  turn  his  back  on  anyone  in  trouble. 

I  have  a  theory  that  Jackie's  greatest  fault  is 
the  result  of  one  of  his  nicest  and  most  lovable 
qualities — the  quality  of  being  unusually  sensitive 
to  other  people  and  their  moods.  It  makes  him 
want  to  please  everyone,  and  to  be  liked  by  every- 
one. And  it  leaves  him  wide  open  for  people  to 
take  advantage  of  him.  Some  of  them  do.  I  suspect 
he  often  knows  this  and  lets  it  go  on,  rather  than 
admit  to  himself  that  he  has  been  imposed  on. 
Or  face  up  to  doing  something  drastic  about  it. 

Jackie's  quick,  keen  mind  is  hardly  a  fault,  but  it 
does  make  him  get  out  of  patience  with  those  who 
think  more  slowly — or,  worse  still,  execute  ideas 
slowly.  People  who  aren't  used  to  the  way  he 
follows  through  on  an  idea,  in  a  flash,  don't  always 
realize  that  he  hasn't  the  time  to  spend  on  the 
slowpokes.   They  don't  understand  that  this  is  a 
man  who  wants  to  accomplish  so  much  that  he 
has  no  time  to  tarry  along  the  way.  This  is  a  man 
who,  in  only  about  five  years  of  television,  has 
proved  himself  a  master  performer  and  showman, 
and  an  instinctive  musician  with  some  gorgeous 
recordings  to  prove  it.  A  man  so  full  of  energy  and 
know-how  that  he  didn't  hesitate  last  winter  to 
take  on  a  two-week  engagement  at  New  York's 
huge  Paramount  Theater  (doing  as  many  as  six 
performances  a  day) ,  along  (Continued  on  page  86) 

The  Jackie  Gleason  Show  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  each  Saturday, 
from  8  to  9  P.M.  EDT.  The  program  is  sponsored  by  Schick 
Electric  Shavers,  Nescafe  Instant  Coffee,  Gleem  and  Prell. 


Ray  Turk,  of  the  Cleveland  Transit  System,  presents 
"bus  driver"  Jackie  with  a  special  cap  and  gold  badge. 


*i&^ 


B 


V    4 


MP 


"The  Honeymooners":  Jackie  and  I  as  Ralph  and  Alice  Kramden,  Art  Carney  and  Joyce  Randolph  as  Ed  and  Trixie  Norton 


flH 


Hard  work  ahead  for  both  the  star  and  producer  Jack 
Hurdle — but,  wherever  Jackie  is,  there'll  be  fun,  too. 


June  Taylor  expects  perfection  from  her  dancers  and 
so  does  Jackie — but  oh,  how  the  girls  enjoy  his  gags! 


31 


STAR  OR  NO  STAR,  EARL  WRIGHTSON  LED  A  WANDERING  MINSTREL'S  LIFE  UNT 


32 


Meet  the  family — and   the   boss:   Earl   brings   daughter   Wendy   Ann 
and  wife  Markey  backstage  to  visit  Bob  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show. 


Robert  Q.  beams  as  Earl  sings  with  Lois 
Hunt.  Bob  doesn't  need  any  explanations  of 
such  "love  scenes" — though  Wendy  Ann  did! 


By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


It's  a  genuine  Hollywood-type  dream  come  true,  every 
time  Earl  Wrightson  sings  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show.  It's 
also  the  happy  climax  of  that  Hollywood-type  story  about 
the  rise  and  fall — rise  and  fall — rise  and  fall  of  a  musical 
matinee  idol.    'Tve  been  up  and  down  so  much  in  my  career," 
says  Earl,  "I  feel  like  a  second-hand  ocean  wave.    I've  been 
discovered  by  Walter  Damrosch,  Max  Gordon,  Al  Goodman 
and  Paul  Whiteman — to  mention  a  few,  besides  Robert  Q.  himself!" 

Earl  Wrightson,  star  baritone  of  the  Lewis  shows 
on  both  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  is  amusing,  cheerful, 
and  unpredictable. 

He  notes  that  he  is  not  tall,  dark  and  handsome.  He  could  pass 
for  a  six-footer — since  he's  already  (Continued  on  page  98) 

Earl  Wrightson  sings  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  2  P.M.  EDT, 
as  sponsored  by  Miles  Laboratories  (Alka-Seltzer),  Helene  Curtis  Industries 
(Spray  Net  and  Lanolin  Discovery),  General  Mills  (O-Cel-0  Sponges  and  other 
products),  Johnson's  Wax,  Swanson  Frozen  Poultry,  Mazola,  other  products— 
and  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  CBS  Radio,  Sat.  11  A.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by 
Helene  Curtis  (Suave  and  Shampoo  Plus  Egg),  Pine-Sol,  Perma-Bleach,  others. 


IE  WAS  RE-DISCOVERED  BY  ROBERT  Q.  LEWIS 


Music  is  something  Earl  knows  all  about, 
but  he  sometimes  finds  it  a  bit  harder  to 
help  his  teen-age  daughter  with  homework. 


J 


Meet  the  family— and  the   boss:   Earl   brings   daughter  Wendy   Ann 
"nd  wife  Mar-key  backstage  to  visit  Bob  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show 


em* 

STAR  OR  NO  STAR,  EARL  WRIGHTSON  LED  A  WANDERING  MINSTREL'S  LIFE  U1NTI1 


By  GREGORY  MERWIN 

It's  a  genuine  Hollywood-type  dream  come  true,  every 
time  Earl  Wrightson  sings  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show.  Its 
also  the  happy  climax  of  that  Hollywood-type  story  about 
the  rise  and  fall— rise  and  fall— rise  and  fall  of  a  musical 
matinee  idol.    "I've  been  up  and  down  so  much  in  my  career, 
says  Earl,  "I  feel  like  a  second-hand  ocean  wave.    Ive  been 
discovered  by  Walter  Damrosch,  Max  Gordon,  Al  Goodman 
and  Paul  Whiteman— to  mention  a  few,  besides  Robert  Q.  himselt. 

Earl  Wrightson,  star  baritone  of  the  Lewis  shows 
on  both  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  is  amusing,  cheerful, 
and  unpredictable.  , , 

He  notes  that  he  is  not  tall,  dark  and  handsome.  He  could  pass 
for  a  six-footer— since  he's  already  (Continued  on  pogeaoj 

E«l  Wrightson  sings  on  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  CBS-TV,  M-F  ,2  ™.EDT. 
as  sponsored  by  Miles  Laboratories  (Alka-Seltzer).  He  ene Curt,.  ™«s™ 
(Spray  Net  and  Lanolin  Discovery),  General  Mills  (O-Cel-O  Sponges  and  other 
Products),  Johnson's  Wax,  Swanson  Frozen  Poultry,  Mazola  othe P™™° 
and  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  CBS  Radio,  Sat.  11  A.M-  EDT,  «  »P»r™£y 
Helene  Curtis  (Suave  and  Shampoo  Plus  Egg),  Pine-Sol,  Perma-Bleach,  others. 


!  WAS  RE-DISCOVERED  BY  ROBERT  Q.  LEWIS 


There  are  very  human  reasons  why 
Dave  Garro way  lives  so  completely 
for  this  moment,  for  this  minute 


By  ED  MEYERSON 


A 


young  housewife  once  wrote  to  Dave  Garroway 
with  a  complaint  about  Today,  his  early-morning  show 
on  NBC-TV.  It  seemed  that  her  husband  shaved  while 
watching  the  program,  and  there  was  a  daily  "trail  of 
lather  and  drippings"  between  her  living  room  and  bath. 
"It's  a  wonder  he  doesn't  slash  his  throat,"  she  con- 
cluded. It's  a  wonder  in  many  another  home  as  well, 
for  Today  is  on  the  air  between  those  breakneck  morn- 
ing hours  just  before  work  or  school,  when  family  activ- 


For  Dave,  it's  often  up  with  the  sun  and  to  bed  with 
the  sun,  so  he  catches  other  TV  shows  whenever  he  can. 


ities  revolve  about  the  bedroom,  kitchen  and  bath.  But 
the  TV  set's  usually  in  the  living  room.  So,  in  order  to 
watch  Today,  people  not  only  have  to  do  two  things  at 
once — they  frequently  have  to  do  them  in  two  different 
places  at  the  same  time. 

How  do  they  manage?  Dave  Garroway  himself  has 
wondered,  and  once  asked  his  TV  audience:  Doesn't 
viewing  Today  interfere  with  your  normal  daily  life? 
He  received  thousands  of  letters  (Continued  on  page  88) 


Dave  is  seen  on  Today,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  7  to  9  A.M.  (all  time  zones) .  Friday  With  Garroway  is  heard  over  NBC  Radio,  Fri.,  8:30  to  10  P.M.  EDT. 


There's  one  young  lady  Garroway  always  finds  time  to  entertain,  when  she  flies  in  to  visit  him — his  daughter  Paris,  10. 


All  the  Brothers  are  Valiant 

All  hands  on  deck:  Mariners  Tom  Lockard  and  Nathaniel  Dickerson,  "Cap'n"  Godfrey,  Mariners  Martin  Karl  and  Jim  Lewis. 


It  hasn't  always  been  smooth  sailing,  but  the  Mariners 

found  a  wonderful  home  port  on  Arthur  Godfrey's  show 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


When  Arthur  Godfrey's  Mariners  first  met,  they 
were — collectively — one  hundred  and  two  years 
old,  measured  close  to  twenty-four  feet  in  height, 
and  weighed  six  hundred  and  eighty-five  pounds.  Today, 
the  four  show  a  gain  of  ninety-eight  pounds  in  weight — 
purely  aside  from  having  increased  their  numbers  to  a 
count  of  twenty-one.  They  have  gained  in  other  ways, 
too — materially  and  spiritually. 

For  the  past  twelve  years,  they  have  been  together 
five  to  seven  days  out  of  each  week.    Long  days.    Hot 


36 


and  cold  days,  too.  Being  in  a  quartet  is  a  bit  like  being 
stranded  on  a  desert  island.  It  can  be  a  little  nerve- 
wracking.  It  can  be.  It  doesn't  have  to  be.  The  Mariners 
don't  have  scars. 

"We  respect  each  other's  viewpoint,"  Nat  Dickerson 
says,  "and  that's  lucky,  because  each  of  us  has  a  differ- 
ent viewpoint."  No  one's  the  boss.  No  one's  the  leader. 
And,  professionally  speaking,  you  will  not  find  another 
such  quartet  with  so  much  musical  education,  training 
and  artistic  experience.   Any  one  of  the  boys  is  a  self- 

Continued       ^ 


Tom  Lockard,  baritone — and  former  Coast  Guard  cook — still  fancies  himself  as  the  family  chef.  But  it  takes  his  music  to 
get  all  of  Tom's  and  Sinny's  children  together,  sitting  quietly  for  the  cameraman!  Seated  around  Tom,  left  to  right,  are 
daughters  Paula  and  Marlayna,  son  Keith,  wife  Sinny  (Virginia,  a  former  member  of  the  Chordettes)  and  baby  Kathleen. 


Nat  Dickerson,  tenor,  had  to  keep  marriage  to  his  beloved  Ellen  a  secret  for  a  year,  while  pursuing  his  vocal  studies 
and  a  distinguished  concert  career.  But  there's  no  secret  about  Nat's  and  Ellen's  happiness  today,  in  their  ranch-style 
home,  with  daughter  Natalie  and  son  Nathaniel,  Jr.  Even  the  Dickersons'  prize  brindle  boxer  is  accepting  congratulations! 


All  the  Brothers  are  Valiant 

(Continued) 

contained  concert.  "It's  not  safe  to  step  out  of  the  room 
if  you  have  the  lead,"  says  Tom  Lockard.  "You  come 
back  and  someone  else  has  stolen  the  solo." 

They  are  rugged  individualists  and  free-wheeling 
thinkers,  but  their  private  lives  are  as  pure  and  whole- 
some as  a  chord  in  C.  "Maybe  the  most  dreary  thing 
about  us  is  that  we're  so  serious,"  says  Jim  Lewis.  "You 
know,  we  don't  lead  glamorous  lives."- 

Certainly  Martin  Karl  doesn't.  He's  got  five  kids.  Al- 
though Martin  is  the  youngest  of  the  Mariners,  he  has 
the  largest  appetite,  the  biggest  family,  and  an  eleven- 
room  house  on  Long  Island.  "We  have  one  bedroom 
empty,"  Martin  says,  "and  we  consider  it  a  challenge." 

The  better  half  of  this  production  team  is  named  Alma. 
She  is  a  lovely  blonde  and  a  fine  singer  in  her  own  right. 
She  and  Karl  met  while  working  for  the  Chicago  Opera 
Company.  Karl  once  played  Escamillo  to  her  Carmen. 
"This  was  before  World  War  II,"  Martin  says.  "We  were 
seventeen  when  we  fell  in  love." 

They  both,  luckily,  have  the  same  philosophy  about 


Martin  Karl,  tenor,  is  married  to  a  singer,  too — although  Alma  has  given  up  professional  music-making 
in  favor  of  raising  a  music-loving  family.  Little  Mark,  above,  was  born  just  last  December.  Others  in  the 
group  picture  below  are  young   Karl  and  April   (at   left),  Robin  (kneeling),  and  Aiming  (in  foreground). 


38 


. 


Jim  Lewis,  bass-baritone,  likes  to  collect  pipes,  rare  wooden  objects — and,  apparently,  the  letter  "J"! 
Jim's  wife,  a  public  health  expert,  is  the  former  Janice  Brooks,  but  they  invented  their  own  J-initial  names 
for  their  two  girls:  Janeen  (seated  on  Daddy's  lap)  and  baby  Jacyn  (who  was  also  born  just  last  December). 


large  families.  They  like  the  sharing,  the  give  and  take. 
They  have  three  boys  and  two  girls.  The  oldest  is  Karl, 
ten.  The  youngest  is  Mark,  born  this  past  December.  In 
between,  there  are  Robin,  almost  nine,  Aiming,  going  on 
six,  and  April,  four  this  spring.  "When  they  walk  around 
together,"  Martin  says,  "they  look  like  an  escalator." 

The  three  oldest  take  piano  lessons,  and  all  but  the 
baby  study  dance.  Young  Karl,  the  leader,  is  a  talented 
artist.  He  astounds  his  parents  with  his  studies  in  natural 
history.  On  birthdays,  the  kids  can  make  up  the  menu 
for  their  parties — and  Karl  requested  lungfish  for  his 
tenth.  He  seriously  explained  that  it  was  a  native  deli- 
cacy in  Africa. 

"But  he's  still  a  ten-year-old,"  Martin  says.  The  other 
day,  Martin  was  shaving  when  a  ruckus  developed  in 
the  hall.  Seemed  that  Robin  had  hit  Karl  with  a  belt. 
Martin  told  number  two  son  to  apologize  to  number  one. 
"I  don't  want  an  apology,"  said  number  one.  "I  just  want 
to  hit  him  back." 

Martin  has  a  theory  about  discipline.  You  don't  say 
no  to  a  child  unless  it's  a  matter  concerning  his  safety 
or  welfare.  -As  a  result,  there  are  quite  a  few  pieces  of 
broken  furniture  and  several  unsolicited  wall  murals 
in  the  house.  Martin  grins:  "As  long  as  they  don't  break 
up  the  stairway,  so  we  can  still  get  to  the  second  floor,  I 


don't  care."  The  stairway  holds  together,  as  do  the 
Karls. 

Most  of  the  time,  the  kids,  two  dogs,  a  cat  and  eleven 
rooms  are  in  the  sole  care  of  Alma.  The  Karls  have  no 
help — except  for  her  parents — but  the  only  thing  that 
bothers  Alma  occasionally  is  her  voice.  She'd  like  to 
use  it,  and  gets  little  chance.  She  enjoys  singing,  but 
only  infrequently  sings  at  church  affairs. 

All  of  the  Mariners  serve  the  community  or  humanity 
in  one  way  or  another.  In  the  case  of  Martin  Karl,  it  is 
the  PTA  of  the  community  school.  Martin  is  president. 
One  month  he  put  in  four  nights  and  three  days  for  the 
PTA.    This  is  more  time  than  he  has  free  some  months. 

Weekends  he  makes  himself  very  useful — he'll  cook 
or  wash  windows  or  paint  or  make  repairs.  Martin  is  one 
of  those  rare  men  who  doesn't  gripe  about  chores  around 
the  house.  His  only  regret  is  that  he  gets  so  little  time 
with  the  family — "You'll  hear  everyone  kick  about  that." 
It  seems  that  the  boys  have  been  filling  so  many  of  their 
weekends  with  out-of-town  concerts. 

"You  get  so  lonely  at  times.  You  get  as  lonely  for  your 
wife  as  if  you  were  overseas,"  Martin  says.  "But  I  never 
have  to  worry  about  the  kids.  Alma's  a  wonderful 
mother.  She  understands  that  this  'basic  security'  everv- 
one   talks   about  for  kids  is    (Continued   on  page  69) 


The  Mariners  sing  on:  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  CBS  Radio,  Monday  through  Friday,  at  10  A.M.,  and  CBS-TV,  Monday  through  Thursday  at 
10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship — Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M.,  under  sponsorship  of  The  Toni  Company, 
Pillsbury  Mills,  and  Frigidaire — and  Arthur  Godfrey's  Digest,  CBS  Radio,  Fri.,  8:30  P.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  (All  times  EDT) 


39 


A  clause  in  a  will,  and  a 

suave  stranger,  threaten  Sunday's 

and  Henry's  birthright  to  love 


L 


1  ove  always  has  something  of  the  magical  about  it,  but  for 
Our  Gal  Sunday,  love  has  been  a  Cinderella  dream-come-true.    A 
poor  orphan  raised  by  two  old  miners  in  Colorado,  Sunday  became 
the  wife  of  Lord  Henry  Brinthrope,  England's  richest,  most 
handsome  nobleman.  .  .  .  Their  great  love  laughed  at  those  who 
warned- that  two  people  so  opposite  in  birth  could  never  overcome 
these  differences.  Now,  however,  Sunday  finds  herself  confronted 
by  a  threat  that  makes  a  "happily  ever  after"  ending  seem  like  a 
fairy  tale  indeed.  . .  .  Leslie  Northurst  has  appeared  out  of  the  past, 
claiming  to  be  Lord  Henry's  cousin  and  the  true  heir  to  the  Brinthrope 
title  and  fortune.  The  sophisticated,  elderly  Englishman  dismisses 
the  story  of  his  supposed  death  in  World  War  I  with  an  easy 
explanation.  He  announces  that  the  will  by  which  Henry  inherited 
his  title  and  fortune  had  a  provision  stating  that,  if  Henry  did  not 
marry  a  titled  Englishwoman,  he  renounced  all  rights  of  inheritance. 
.  . .  Leslie's  schemes  do  not  stop  with  demands  for  Henry's  title 
and  fortune.   Boldly,  he  tells  Sunday  that  she  can  remain  Lady 
Brinthrope  by  divorcing  Henry  and  marrying  him.  .  .  .  Heretofore, 
Sunday's  dislike  of  Leslie  Northurst  was  instinctive  but  it  changes 
to  horror  when  she  meets  Cecily — Leslie's  wife,  who  has  been  ill 
for  several  years  and  is  terrified  by  the  fear  that  Leslie  plans  to  kill 
her.  .  .  .  Unaware  of  what  Sunday  has  learned  about  the  will, 
Lord  Henry  is  baffled  by  her  strange  actions.  For  Sunday  is 
convinced  that  Henry  would  be  better  off  without  her,  and  has 
deliberately  set  out  to  lose  his  affections.  .  .  .   Will  the  unselfish, 
unsuspecting  Sunday  play  right  into  Leslie's  hands  before  Lord 
Henry  has  time  to  realize  what  is  behind  her  puzzling  behavior? 
What  action  can  Henry  take  to  defend  his  title,  his  fortune — and  his 
wife?  . . .  Sunday,  too,  has  a  birthright — to  love  and  happiness.  Yet, 
where  is  the  answer  to  this  vicious  threat  which  seems  destined 
to  destroy  the  happiness  of  Our  Gal  Sunday? 

Our  Gal  Sunday,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  12:45  P.M.  EDT,  for  Anacin,  Chef  Boyardee. 
Vivian  Smolen  and  Alastair  Duncan  are  Sunday  and  Lord  Henry,  pictured  at  right. 


Henry  is  unaware  that  Sunday — 
to   protect   his   family   inheritance- 
has  decided  to  step  out  of  his  life. 


40 


Teen  times:  Warren  attends  Professional  Children's  School  on  Broadway,  with  such  other  youthful  TV  performers  as  Patti 
O'Neill  (his  girl  friend,  Debbie,  in  The  Secret  Storm),  Sari  Clymas  and  Joey  Walsh.  He  lives  with  his  parents  in  Brooklyn, 
where — like  any  young  student — he  consults  his  dad,  Elias  Berlinger,  about  his  homework,  and  plays  with  his  tiny  niece,  Gail. 


\  \ 


AGE  of  DISCOVERY 


At  17 — like  Jerry  in 
The  Secret  Storm — young 
Warren  Berlinger  faces  a  man's  world 
with  clear  eyes  and  hopeful  heart 

By  FRANCES  KISH 


Everyone's  heard  stories  about  stars  who 
were  discovered  aS  fast  as  you  could  say 
"television  audition"  or  "screen  test." 
The  beautiful  girl  found  sitting  at  the  corner 
soda  fountain  .  .  .  the  handsome  young  man 
tending  a  tank  in  a  gas  station.  .  .  .  Warren 
Berlinger   (pronounced  with  a  soft  "g," 
please)  went  them  all  one  better.  Warren — 
who  is  now  young  Jerry  Ames  in  the  daytime 
drama,  The  Secret  Storm,  and  also  has  been 
acclaimed,  this  season,  on  Broadway,  as 
the  juvenile  comedy  lead  in  "Anniversary 
Waltz" — was  first  discovered  at  the  age  of  eight 
and  a  half,  while  playing  cops-and-robbers 
with  the  neighborhood  gang,  on  his  own 
street  in  Flatbush,    (Continued  on  page  94) 

-   ■  — 
The  Secret  Storm,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:15  P.M.  EDT,  is  spon- 
sored by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  and  Boyle-Midway,  Inc. 


The  Secret  Storm  stars  Peter  Hobbs  (above,  right)  as  Warren's  TV  father,  Peter  Ames.  Below,  left — Mrs.  Frederick  S. 
Hoppin,  director  of  Professional  Children's  School,  chats  with  Warren  and  Joey  Walsh  as  they  eat  in  the  school's  lunchroom. 
Right — Warren  hastens  to  the  theater  with  Macdonald  Carey,  his  stage  father  in  the  Broadway  comedy,  "Anniversary  Waltz." 

■nv 


T 


AGE  of  DISCOVERY 


At  17 — like  Jerry  in 
The  Secret  Storm — young 
Warren  Berlinger  faces  a  man's  world 
with  clear  eyes  and  hopeful  heart 

By  FRANCES  KISH 

Everyone's  heard  stories  about  stars  who 
were  discovered  aS  fast  as  you  could  say 
"television  audition"  or  "screen  test." 
The  beautiful  girl  found  sitting  at  the  corner 
soda  fountain  .  .  .  the  handsome  young  man 
tending  a  tank  in  a  gas  station.  .  .  .  Warren 
Berlinger   (pronounced  with  a  soft  "g," 
please)  went  them  all  One  better.  Warren— 
who  is  now  young  Jerry  Ames  in  the  daytime 
drama,  The  Secret  Storm,  and  also  has  been 
acclaimed,  this  season,  on  Broadway,  as 
the  juvenile  comedy  lead  in  "Anniversary 
Waltz"— was  first  discovered  at  the  age  of  eight 
and  a  half,  while  playing  cops-and-robbers 
with  the  neighborhood  gang,  on  his  own 
street  in  Flatbush,    (Continued  on  page  94) 


Teen  times:  Warren  attends  Professional  Children's  School  on  Broadway,  with  such  other  youthful  TV  performers  as  Parti 
O'Neill  (his  girl  friend,  Debbie,  in  The  Secret  Storm),  Sari  Clymas  and  Joey  Walsh.  He  lives  with  his  parents  in  Brooklyn, 
where — like  any  young  student — he  consults  his  dad,  Elias  Berlinger,  about  his  homework,  and  plays  with  his  tiny  niece,  Gail. 


The  Secret  Storm,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:15  P.M.  EOT,  is  spon- 
sored by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  and  Boyle-Midway,  Inc. 

0  .  Below    left Mrs    Frederick  S. 

Th.  Secret  Storm  stars   Peter  Hobbs  (above    right)  as  Warren's  TV  father,   Peter  ^^        t 'in  the  scn00|'s  lunchroom. 
Hoppin,  director  of  Professional  Children  s  School,  eUswrth  W    rer °»d  ^V  ycomedy,  "Ann.versory  Wafe 

Right-Warren  hastens  to  the  theater  with  Macdonald  Corey,  h.s  stage 


Below,  Lucy  tries  the  traditional  way  to  a  man's 
heart — right,  a  modern  way  of  never  being  separated 
from  Desi  by  even  "the  length  of  a  golf  course!" 


HnHuBnHHnu&> 


Forever  near  her  Heart 


No  more  hotel  rooms,  no  more  lonely  Christmases — particularly  now  that 
Lucy  and  Desi  have  son  Desiderio  Alberto  IV  and  daughter  Lucie  Desiree. 


Fate  almost  parted  Lucille  Ball 
and  Desi  Arnaz — but  fate  forgot 
the  strength  of  a  woman's  love 

By  ALJEAN  MELTSIR 

I  think  that  every  marriage  has  a 
point  of  no  return,  a  turning  point, 
a  place  where  you  have  to 
make  the  right  decision — or  else," 
Lucille  Ball  said  slowly.  "For  me,  that 
time  came  at  Christmas,  almost  nine 
years  ago." 

On  Christmas  Day,  1946,  most  of  the 
9,710,325  residents  of  the  state  of 
California  were  comfortably  stuffing 
themselves  with  turkey  and  enjoying  the 
warmth  of  home.  Among  the  few  who 
weren't,  the  two  most  miserable 
were  Desi  Arnaz  and  Lucille  Ball. 
At  their  sprawling  ranch  in  the  San 
Fernando  Valley,  there  was  not  even 
a  Christmas   (Continued  on  page  89} 

Lucille  and  Desi  Arnaz  star  in  /  Love  Lucy,  on 
CBS-TV,  Mon.,  9  P.M.  EDT,  under  alternate 
sponsorship  of  Philip  Morris  Cigarettes  and  Cheer. 
The  Lucy  Show  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Sun.,  6  P.M. 
EDT,  for  Dorothy  Gray,  Lehn  &  Fink  Products. 


ri 


44 


^J 


FINEST  HOUR 

The  smile  on  Sid  Caesar's  face  today 
has  many  meanings — but  the  greatest 
is  the  new  happiness  he  has  found 

By  GLADYS  HALL 

Across  the  desk  in  his  private  office — a  massive, 
richly  carved  desk  at  which  Rome's  Imperial 
'  Caesar  might  have  sat — TV's  inimitable 
Caesar  sat  considering,  with  somewhat  wry  amuse- 
ment, the  answer  to  the  improbable  question  of 
what  he  would  do  if  he  had  one  day  off. 
"Improbable"  because  young  Sid  Caesar — who  looks 
ten  years  younger  in  person  than  on  a  TV  screen, 
and  twice  as  handsome — works  seven  days  a  week, 

Continued         k. 


Headman  Sid  has  a  million  and  one  details  to  supervise.  Then  there  are  the  necessary  and  usually  harried  confer- 
ences with  cast — Howard  Morris  (left)  and  Nanette  Fabray — and  writers — Charles  Andrews  (rear)  and  Aaron  Rubin. 


The  result  of  hard  worlc:  Sid  stays  in  the  TV  spotlight,  as  do  Nanette  Fabray,  Carl  Reiner  and  Howard  Morris. 


Com'i 


FINEST  HOUR 

(Continued) 


Material  possessions  are  important  to  Sid,  but  above  all  he  values  his  wife  Florence  ("She  is  my  career")  and  his  two  children, 


■  • 


18 


Sid's  major  regret  is  that  he  hasn't  more  time  to  be 
with  Ricky  and  Shelley.  But,  maybe  someday,  he  muses. 


or  84  working  hours,  in  order  to  bring  you  one  hour, 
Caesar's  Hour,  on  NBC-TV  from  8  to  9  P.M.,  three 
Mondays  each  month! 


But,  since  playing  with 
part  of  the  antic  Caesar's 
with  this   one,   saying,   "If 


ideas,  however  fanciful,  is 
stock  in  trade,  Sid  played 
I   had  a   day   off — which  I 


haven't  had,  and  won't  have  unless  an  eighth  day  is 
added  to  the  calendar — but  if  I  had,  if,  if,"  Sid  punched 
the  word  home,  "first  thing  I'd  do,  I'd  sleep  late  .  .  . 
oh,  until  about  nine-thirty,  as  against  the  seven  or,  at 
latest,  seven-thirty  I  get  up  every  morning.  Then  I'd 
like  to  have  the  kids  in  bed  with  me,  just  loaf  in  bed 
with  the  kids,  tell  jokes,  play,  no  eye  on  the  clock — 
what  is  the  clock?  Then  I'd  get  up  and  have  corned 
beef  hash  and  poached  eggs  (my  favorite  breakfast). 
How  many  eggs?  Only  two,  but  under  those  two,"  Sid's 
strong  fine  hands  described  a  generous  arc,  "a  lotta 
hash.  Then  I'd  take  a  real  hot,  leisurely  bath,  instead 
of  the  customary  quick,  cold  shower.  Just  lie  there  .  .  . 
not  thinking  .  .  .  floating — mentally  as  well  as  physically. 
Then  I'd  get  dressed  up,  but  real  lackadaisical:  Sport 
shirt,  slacks,  moccasins.  Then  I'd  put  everybody  in 
the  car — everybody  meaning  Florence  and  the  kids — and 
we'd  drive  up  to  some  country  club.  At  the  club  I'd 
take  a  dip  in  the  pool  with  the  kids,  after  which  Florence 
would  stay  with  the  kids  and  I'd  shoot  a  round  of  golf — 


W 


: 


Ricky  and  Shelley,  to  whom  he  is  just  Daddy.  And   almost  as  important    are  the  few  days  each  month  when  he  can  be  by  himself. 


nine  holes,  not  eighteen!  Then  I'd  go  back  to  the  club- 
house, where  I'd  meet  some  friends,  I  hope  .  .  .  funny 
thing,  I'm  afraid  of  being  alone.  It's  the  only  fear  I 
have  that  I  know  of,  but  it's  real.  I  don't  like  to  be  alone. 
"So  then  we'd  sit  on  the  clubhouse  porch,  my  friends 
and  I,  and  talk.  I  love  to  talk.  Must  be  that  I'd  rather 
talk  than  eat — for,  whereas  I  sometimes  forget  to  eat, 
I  never  pass  up  a  chance  to  talk.  We  wouldn't  talk 
about  show  business,  though.  Carl  Reiner  is  a  good 
friend  of  mine.  So  is  Howard  Morris.  So  are  all  the 
kids  on  the  show.  After  the  show  on  Monday  nights, 
Carl  and  his  wife,  Howie  and  his  wife,  Florence  and  I 
usually  go  out  to  dinner  somewhere — to  Danny's  Hide- 
a-way  most  often.  But  other  than  the  gang  I  work  with, 
I  have  very  few  friends  in  my  own  profession.  Two  of 
my  good  friends  are  doctors — one,  a  psychiatrist;  the 
other,  a  medical  doctor.  Let's  suppose  I  meet  up  with 
the  doctors,  who  probably  don't  want  to  talk  shop, 
either.  So  maybe  we  talk  about  science.  I  love  to  talk 
about  science.  Like  about  this  new  spark — this  man- 
made   spark   which    travels    (Continued   on   page 72) 

Caesar's  Hour  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  three  Mondays  out  of  four,  from 
8  to  9  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  the  American  Chicle  Company 
(for  Clorets  and  Dentyne  Chewing  Gum),  the  Speidel  Corporation 
(Watch  Bands),  and  Radio  Corporation  of  America  (RCA  Victor). 


■^MBHHMHaHBaM 





QwflW 


FINEST  HOUR 

(Continued) 


Material  possessions  are  important  to  Sid,  but  above  all  he  values  his  wife  Florence  ("She  is  my  career")  and  his  two  children, 


or  84  working  hours,  in  order  to  bring  you  one  hour, 
Caesar's  Hour,  on  NBC-TV  from  8  to  9  P.M.,  three 
Mondays  each  month! 

But,  since  playing  with  ideas,  however  fanciful,  is 
part  of  the  antic  Caesar's  stock  in  trade,  Sid  played 
with  this  one,  saying,  "If  I  had  a  day  off— which  I 
haven't  had,  and  won't  have  unless  an  eighth  day  is 
added  to  the  calendar— but  if  I  had,  if,  if,"  Sid  punched 
the  word  home,  "first  thing  I'd  do,  I'd  sleep  late  .  •  ■ 
oh,  until  about  nine-thirty,  as  against  the  seven  or,  at 
latest,  seven-thirty  I  get  up  every  morning.  Then  I'd 
like  to  have  the  kids  in  bed  with  me,  just  loaf  in  bed 
with  the  kids,  tell  jokes,  play,  no  eye  on  the  clock— 
what  is  the  clock?  Then  I'd  get  up  and  have  corned 
beef  hash  and  poached  eggs  (my  favorite  breakfast). 
How  many  eggs?  Only  two,  but  under  those  two,"  Sid's 
strong  fine  hands  described  a  generous  arc,  "a  lotta 
hash.  Then  I'd  take  a  real  hot,  leisurely  bath,  instead 
of  the  customary  quick,  cold  shower.  Just  lie  there  . .  ■ 
not  thinking  . .  .  floating— mentally  as  well  as  physically. 
Then  I'd  get  dressed  up,  but  real  lackadaisical:  Sport 
shirt,  slacks,  moccasins.  Then  I'd  put  everybody  in 
the  car— everybody  meaning  Florence  and  the  kids—and 
we'd  drive  up  to  some  country  club.  At  the  club  Id 
take  a  dip  in  the  pool  with  the  kids,  after  which  Florence 
would  stay  with  the  kids  and  I'd  shoot  a  round  of  golf- 


Ricky  ond  Shelley,  to  whom  he  is  just  Daddy.  And  almost  as  important   are  the  few  days  each  month  when  he  can  be  by  himself. 


Sid's  major  regret  is  that  he  hasn't  more  time  to  be 
with  Ricky  and  Shelley.  But,  maybe  someday,  he  muses. 


nine  holes,  not  eighteen!  Then  I'd  go  back  to  the  club- 
house, where  I'd  meet  some  friends,  I  hope  .  .  .  funny 
thing,  I'm  afraid  of  being  alone.  It's  the  only  fear  I 
have  that  I  know  of,  but  it's  real.  X  don't  like  to  be  alone. 
"So  then  we'd  sit  on  the  clubhouse  porch,  my  friends 
and  I,  and  talk.  I  love  to  talk.  Must  be  that  I'd  rather 
talk  than  eat — for,  whereas  I  sometimes  forget  to  eat, 
I  never  pass  up  a  chance  to  talk.  We  wouldn't  talk 
about  show  business,  though.  Carl  Reiner  is  a  good 
friend  of  mine.  So  is  Howard  Morris.  So  are  all  the 
kids  on  the  show.  After  the  show  on  Monday  nights, 
Carl  and  his  wife,  Howie  and  his  wife,  Florence  and  I 
usually  go  out  to  dinner  somewhere — to  Danny's  Hide- 
a-way  most  often.  But  other  than  the  gang  I  work  with, 
I  have  very  few  friends  in  my  own  profession.  Two  of 
my  good  friends  are  doctors— one,  a  psychiatrist;  the 
other,  a  medical  doctor.  Let's  suppose  I  meet  up  with 
the  doctors,  who  probably  don't  want  to  talk  shop, 
either.  So  maybe  we  talk  about  science.  I  love  to  talk 
about  science.  Like  about  this  new  spark— this  man- 
made  spark   which   travels    (Continued  on  page72) 

C««or'>  Hour  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  three  Mondays  out  ol  four,  from 
8  to  9  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  the  American  Ch.cle  Company 
'f«  florets  and  Dentyne  Chewing  Gum),  the  Speidel  Corporation 
Watch  Bands),  and  Radio  Corporation  of  Amer.oa  (RCA  V.etor). 


BORN  TO  BE  A  HUSBAND 


___-MBJ^I^    > 

-w  T 

1 

— 

W£*-  »•'. 

K  L- 

■!•'!»•    ' 

---: 

T^j 

Kjk/"< 

1^; 

s 

Say  and  Ricky  enjoy  the  TV  adventures 
of  Paul  Raven,  but  their  choice  of 
roles  for  husband  and  father  Richard 
is  as  leader  of  family  vacation  jaunts. 


As  Vanessa's  mate  in  Love  Of  Life, 
Richard  Coogan  can  be  a  romantic 
problem  .  .  .  but,  at  home  ivith  Gay 

By  ERNST  JACOBI 


Richard  treasures  moments  at  home  with 

Ricky  and  the  Coogan  menagerie — 

two  parakeets,  a  canary,  and  Shadow,  a 

cocker  spaniel — or  time  out  to  admire 

cowboy  Ricky's  midget  stagecoach. 


Richard  Coogan  is  Paul  Raven  in  Love  Of  Life,  seen  on 
CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:15  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Whitehall 
Pharmacal  Co.,  Boyle-Midway,  Inc.,  and  Chef  Boyardee. 


at  twelve-fifteen  on  the  dot,  the  maid  knocked 
/\    at  the  door,  entered  the  bedroom  where  her 

employer  was  still  asleep,  deposited  a  cup  of 
coffee  on  the  night  table  and  turned  on  the  television. 
"I'm  sorry  to  disturb  you,  Mrs.  Coogan,"  she  said. 
"But  you  sure  don't  want  to  miss  Love  Of  Life, 
do  you?" 

Gay  Coogan — whose  husband,  Richard,  was  then 
rehearsing  for  a  Broadway  play,  besides  appearing 
four  to  five  times  a  week  as  Paul  Raven  in  Love 
Of  Life  on  CBS-TV — had  been  up  working  with 
him  till  three  A.M.  She  had  risen  at  seven  to  get  their 
son,  Ricky,  dressed,  fed  and  off  to  school .  . .  had 
given  her  husband  his  breakfast  at  nine  .  .  .  and 
finally  tumbled  back  into  bed  (Continued  on  page  11) 


MARRIAGE 

For  Peter  Lawford,  TV's  "Dear  Phoebe," 

private  life  is  really  a  paean  of  praise  to  "Dear  Pat" 

By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 


Pat  gets   a   chuckle   out  of   Pete's   scripts — 
he  plays  an  "advice  to  the  lovelorn"  editor! 


Eventually,"  said  Peter  Lawford,  casual- 
like, to  the  striking  brunette  across 
the  dinner  table  from  him,  "I'd  like  to 
be  married  to  you.  Would  you?" 

"Why  don't  you  ask  me?"  Pat  Kennedy 
breezed  back. 
"Will  you?"  he  said. 
She  would. 

And  so  they  were  married.    And, 
simultaneously,  Peter  Lawford — once.  Holly- 
wood's most  eligible  and  elusive  bachelor — 
has  soared  to  new  career-heights  advising 
the  lovelorn.  .  .  .  (Continued  on  page  81) 


Peter  Lawford  stars  in  Dear  Phoebe,  NBGTV,  Fri., 
9:30  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  the  Campbell  Soup  Co. 


Two  in  love  lead  a  deeply  rewarding  life,  though  Pete  and  Pat  Lawford  seem  so  casual — particularly  at  their  beach 
home,  which  has  a  view  of  the  ocean,  a  tiny  patio,  a  sea  wall  facing  the  sunlit  surf,  and  a  friendly  dog  named  Nicky. 


53 


M5 


HP 


/ 


X 


Head  in  tli€ 
STARS 


m* 


WW 


=35.--=3»s«f5f; 


'***„ 


(J 


LJnlike  Mar  got  of  Valiant  Lady,  Katherine  Anderson 

has  fought  for  peace  of  mind — and  won  her  fight 


54 


Valiant  Lady  is  a  title  which  might  not  fit  Margot  her- 
self, but  it  well  describes  Katherine,  who  plays  the  role. 


By  PETER  CHARADE 

Iast  December,  when  CBS  tried  a  color 
.  telecast  of  Valiant  Lady,  Margot  Finchley 
did  the  expected.  She  wore  the  reddest 
dress  in  town — just  as  any  dyed-in-the- 
wool  temptress  should.  But  she  only  proved 
what  everyone  already  knew  in  black-and- 
white.  No  matter  what  she  wears,  no  matter 
what  she  does,  Margot  Finchley  is  still  the  most 
sympathetic  villainess  in  daytime  drama. 
She  can  be  working  her  wiles  on  another 
woman's  man.  She  can  be  as  menacing  as 
the  TV  Code  allows.   But  she's  so  believably 
real,  her  motives  so  disarmingly  human — you 
don't  hate  Margot,  you  feel  sorry  for  her. 
You  can  see  she  isn't  really  bad,  she's  just 
plain,  everyday  unhappy. 

To  make  an  audience  see  all  this  takes  more 
than  acting  technique,  it  takes  an  under- 
standing heart.    And  Katherine  Anderson,  who 
plays  the  part,  is  brimming  over  with  both. 
"Margot  is  very  real  to  me,"  she  says,  instantly 
rushing  to  her  defense  before  anyone  can 
say  a  word  against  her.  "It's  her  background. 
She  was  born  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  tracks. 
That's  what  mixed  her  up." 

But  Katherine's  sympathy  goes  deeper 
than  psychological  insight.   It's  practically  self- 
identification.   "I  can't  bear  to  see  the  hurt 
in  Margot,"  she  says.    She  knows  what  they 
are — those  deep-seated  hurts  that  start  in 
childhood  and  last  us  a  lifetime,  those  painful 
insecurities  that  twist  our  desires  to  sense- 
less drives:   "Actually,  you  see,  we're 
very  much  alike." 

But  Katherine  has  long  since  outgrown 
her  own  private  hurt.    So  what  she  really 
means — and  it's  almost  a  prayer  of  thanks 
— is  that  there  .  .  .     (Continued  on  page  96) 

Katherine  Anderson  is  Margot  Finchley  in  Valiant  Lady, 
over  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12  noon  EDT,  as  sponsored  (on  alter- 
nate days)  by  General  Mills,  Inc.,  and  The  Toni  Company. 


Reading  enriches  her  knowledge  of  life. 


She  began  as  a  writer,  is  an  accomplished  musician,  has 
designed  the  sets  for  many  of  the  shows  she's  staged. 


YOUNG  DOCTOR  MALONE 


I.  Jill  Malone  shows  an  old  photograph  of  her  dead 
mother  to  remind  Jerry  and  his  new  wife  Tracey  of 
the    first    Mrs.    Malone,    whose    memory    lingers    on. 


2.  Jerry  also  finds  himself  in  the  midst  of  a  con- 
flict at  the  Clinic,  as  Dr.  Ted  Mason  and  Marsha 
determine   to    have   their   own    way   with    their   plans. 


Each  of  us  treasures  souvenirs  from  the  past — or 
remembers  with  a  nicker  of  pain  or  regret  an 
episode  we'd  prefer  to  forget.  An  occasional  glance 
over  the  shoulder  can  reveal  the  lessons  to  be  learned 
from  yesterday — but  it  is  on  today  and  on  tomorrow 
that  our  eyes  should  really  be  focused.  Dr.  Jerry  Ma- 
lone's  daughter,  Jill,  and  his  new  wife,  Tracey,  have 
still  to  learn  this. 

Jill,  a  confused,  groping  adolescent,  clings  to  the 
memory  of  her  dead  mother,  Anne — Jerry's  first  wife. 
Angered  and  hurt  by  Jerry's  decision  to  marry  again, 
Jill  withdraws  into  herself  and,  when  Jerry  and  Tracey 
return  from  their  honeymoon,  they  find  her  unrespon- 
sive and  hostile.  During  their  absence,  young  Jill  had 
taken  a  photograph  of  Anne  Malone  and  placed  it  on 
the  ebony  grand  piano  which  was  one  of  Jerry's  and 


Tracey 's  wedding  gifts.  The  picture  declares  for  Jill 
all  the  antagonism  she  never  openly  states.  It  is  her 
reminder  that  there  was — and  still  is — the  first  Mrs. 
Malone.  However,  Jerry's  mother  had  insisted  that  Jill 
remove  the  picture  from  the  piano. 

Cold  and  impassive,  concealing  every  emotion  natural 
to  a  sixteen-year-old,  Jill  begins  to  make  little  com- 
ments in  Tracey's  presence — comments  which  might 
mean  nothing  in  themselves  but  in  which,  taken  all 
together,  Tracey  is  forced  to  read  deep  meaning. 

In  her  opposition  to  Tracey,  Jill  plays  a  waiting  game. 
She  takes  refuge  with  her  grandmother,  but  Mother 
Malone  sees  that  Jill  is  trying  to  draw  her  into  taking 
sides  in  a  conflict  that  must  someday  come  out  into  the 
open.  Wisely,  Mother  Malone  refuses  to  let  her  grand- 
daughter use  her. 


See  Next  Page- 


57 


YOUNG  DOCTOR  MALONE 


(Continued) 


However,  David,  the  young  boy  whom  Jerry  has 
taken  into  his  home,  does  take  sides.  He  understands 
Jill's  desire  to  force  Tracey  to  leave  Three  Oaks  so  that 
she  will  no  longer  have  to  share  her  father  with  anyone. 
On  the  other  hand,  David — who  will  enter  college  next 
fall  and  who  hopes  to  become  a  doctor — sees  in  Tracey 
an  ideal  of  the  mother  he  has  never  known. 

Jerry  and  Tracey  find  that  Jill's  attitude  makes  a 
closer  relationship  between  them  practically  impossible. 
This — plus  her  discovery  of  Anne's  letters  to  Jerry — 
makes  Anne  a  very  real  person  to  Tracey,  who  finds  the 
ghost  OI  his  first  wife  has  become  a  living  part  of 
their  household.  The  ebony  piano,  which  has  come  to 
symbolize  a  coffin  to  Jill,  takes  on  the  same  dark  mean- 


ing for  Tracey — who  had  been  a  concert  performer,  but 
now  refuses  to  play.  To  Tracey,  the  piano  seems  to 
play  without  anyone  being  there  to  touch  its  keys.  She 
hears  herself  playing — and  sees  Craig  Brando  reflected 
in  its  polished  black  surface. 

Tracey  is  haunted,  not  only  by  Jill's  reminders  of 
Anne  Malone,  but  by  her  own  past,  which  she  has  tried 
to  conceal.  Nothing  can  make  her  forget  the  tragic 
events  that  led  to  her  flight  from  Craig  Brando,  who 
had  once  guided  her  career — and  her  life.  The  memory 
of  that  night  clouds  Tracey's  happiness  with  Jerry,  and 
he  knows  there  is  something  in  the  past  which  sets  up 
a  barrier  to  the  happy  marriage  he  had  hoped  to  build. 

Then  Craig  Brando  appears.    Tracey,  after  her  long 


3.  Jerry  has  taken  young  David  into  his  home  and  now  he  helps  him  in  his  plans  to  become  a  doctor.  Jill  watches  fondly, 
having  fully  accepted  David  as  her  brother.  But  she  feels  keen  resentment  of  David's  open  admiration  for  Tracey. 


^ 


4.  Tracey  has  never  been  able  to  escape  the  memory  of 
that  tragic  night  with  Craig  Brando.  Now  Craig  appears 
once  again  and  Tracey's  fears  grow  with  each  meeting. 


flight,  once  again  comes  face  to  face  with  this  strangely 
important  man  from  her  past  life  and  begins  to  experi- 
ence real  fear.  There  would  be  nothing  to  fear  if  she 
would  confide  in  Jerry,  but  Tracey  cannot  bring  her- 
self to  speak  of  the  happenings  of  that  horrible  night. 

Even  as  Jerry  seeks  a  way  to  break  the  conflict  be- 
tween Jill  and  Tracey — and  the  conflict  of  each  with 
the  past — the  trouble  which  has  long  been  brewing  for 
him  at  the  Dineen  Clinic  bursts  into  the  open.  Dr.  Ted 
Mason  has  married  Marsha  Sutton  and  the  Sutton 
money  and  influence  seems  likely  to  tip  the  scales  in 
Ted's  favor.  One  thing  becomes  clear  to  Jerry:  Marsha 
and  Ted  are  trying  to  gain  control  of  the  Clinic! 

Jerry's  work  at  the  Clinic  and  with  his  own  patients 
— and  the  experiences  of  his  own  life — have  given  him 
a  deep  understanding  of  human  problems.  Can  he  find 
from  this  wisdom  a  guide  to  winning  Jill's  acceptance 
of  Tracey  and  building  a  happy  future  around  these 
two  people  whom  he  loves  so  much?  And  will  Jerry  be 
able  to  help  his  wife  overcome  the  tragedy  of  her  past 
before  this  strange  menace  drives  Tracey  to  a  desperate 
action?   What  lies  ahead  for  Dr.  Jerry  Malone? 


5.  As  Mother  Malone  urges  Jill  to  accept  her  father's 
new  wife,  Jerry  hopes  Tracey  and  Jill  can  be  friends.  If 
Jill  refuses,  must  Jerry  Malone  choose  between  them? 


Pictured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Dr.  Jerry  Malone Sandy  Becker 

Tracey  Malone Jone  Allison 

Jill  Malone Rosemary  Rice 

Dr.  Ted  Mason Bob  Readick 

Marsha  Mason Elspeth  Eric 

Mother  Malone Vera  Allen 

Craig  Brando Bret  Morrison 

David Bill  Ma6on 

Young  Dr.  Malone  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  1 :30  P.M.  EDT, 
as  sponsored  by  the  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Crisco  and  Joy. 


59 


Jim  Bannon  may  not  get  the  girl 
in  Hawkins  Falls,  but  he's  a  real 
he-man  hero  to  all  who  know  him 


Script  girl    Marilyn    Lassen    is   one   of   many 
in  TV  who  find  Jim  a  grand  guy  to  work  with. 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


Had  he  been  born  a  hundred  years  ago,  Jim 
Bannon  says,  he  would  have  painted 
"California  or  Bust"  on  a  Forty-Niner's 
covered  wagon  and  trekked  out  in  search 
of  gold.  It  would  also  have  been  fun,  he  thinks, 
to  have  been  the  swashbuckling  sidekick  of 
Sir  Francis  Drake.  High  adventure  appeals  to 
him.    His  taste  for  it  might  even  explain 
why  he  became  an  actor:   "I've  had  a  chance 
to  play  those  guys  and  a  few  more  besides. 
I  like  action  stuff." 

Rangy,  lithe,  easygoing — and  possessed  of  a 
slow  drawl  and  a  dry  humor — Jim  suits  the  type. 
He  is  six-feet-three,  weighs  a  lean  one- 
hundred-eighty  pounds  (Continued  on  page  92). 


Jim  Bannon  is  Mitchell  Fredericks  in  Hawkins  Falls,  as 
seen  on  NBC-TV,  Monday  through  Friday,  at  4  P.M.  EDT. 


Always  "best  man":  Mitchell  Fredericks  (Jim  himself)  and 
Millie  Flagle  (Ros  Twohey)  at  wedding  of  Lona  (Bernardine 
Flynn)  and  Dr.  Corey  (Maurice  Copeland)  in  Hawkins  Falls. 

TV  friends  kid  Jim  about  his  Western  film   roles — 
ranging  from  heroic  "Red  Ryder"  to  blackest  villains! 


61 


DORESE  BELL 


tF  ever  a  perpetual-motion  award  were  created,  one  of 
its  leading  contenders  would  certainly  be  Dorese 
Bell.  One  of  the  busiest,  brightest  and  most  beautiful 
young  ladies  in  radio,  she  airs  her  stimulating  Dorese 
Bell  Show  twice  a  day  on  Tuesdays  and  Thursdays  over 
ABC.  The  rest  of  her  time  is  spent  gathering  the  wealth 
of  news  and  information  she  presents,  interviewing 
celebrities,  and  covering  any  and  all  the  events  of  in- 
terest to  women.  "My  work  keeps  me  busy  almost  24 
hours  a  day,  seven  days  a  week,"  says  Dorese,  adding 
enthusiastically,  "but  I  love  it.  It  is  my  life,  my  love — 
everything."  .  .  .  Dorese  was  born  in  Birmingham,  Ala- 
bama, and  was  graduated  with  honors  from  Arlington 
Hall  College  in  Virginia.  Then  she  studied  for  two 
years  at  the  American  Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts.  The 
day  after  she  left  the  Academy  she  won  a  leading  role 
in  the  Broadway  production  of  "Junior  Miss."  This  was 
followed  by  a  season  of  summer  stock  in  Milwaukee 
and  a  part  in  "Many  Happy  Returns,"  with  Mary  Astor. 
During  the  war,  Dorese  toured  the  East  aS  the  United 
Nations  Victory  Queen,  selling  War  Bonds.  Then,  after 
spending  a  year  in  Hollywood,  she  settled  down  in 
Rochester,  New  York.  Since  there  were  ho  dramatic 
openings  there,  Dorese  decided  to  try  something  differ- 
ent. "One  night,"  she  explains,  "I  shot  up  in  bed  and  said 
to  myself,  'That's  it — radio!' "  The  next  day  she  visited 
one  of  Rochester's  stations,  and  talked  officials  into  hir- 
ing her.  The  result — she  became  Women's  Editor  and 
Radio  Commentator  at  Station  WRNY,  and  later  was 
femcee,  writer  and  producer  of  the  WHAM-TV  show, 
Hi  Neighbor.  When  the  yen  to  travel  came  again, 
Dorese  moved  to  Washington,  D.  C,  and  appeared  as 
hostess  on  shows  such  as  G-E  Theater  and  TV  Card 


STARS  and 

ABC  Radio  serves  its  listeners 
across  the  land  with  a  tasty  daytime 
fare  of  music,  Hews  and  drama 


Girl-on-the-go  at  the  Capitol:  Dorese  gets  the  lat- 
est news  and  views  from  Sen.  and  Mrs.  Douglas. 


Party.  However,  she  discovered  her  true  niche  when 
she  was  given  her  present-type  show.  .  .  .  Since 
January,  Dorese  has  been  broadcasting  from  New  York, 
but  weekends  she  commutes  to  Washington  to  visit  her 
folks.  Because  she  has  been  such  a  girl-on-the-go, 
Dorese  hasn't  had  time  to  "collect"  hobbies — except  for 
her  beloved  little  Cairn  terrier,  "Tiger."  And,  in  spite 
of  her  hectic  pace,  Dorese  says,  "I've  never  been  sick  a 
day  in  my  life.  I  get  my  sleep  on  trains,  planes  and 
buses.  I  even  take  a  three-minute  nap  in  the  studio, 
just  before  air  time."  As  to  the  future,  Dorese  looks 
forward  to  even  more  work,  and  hopes  to  have  her  show 
on  TV  as  well  as  radio.  When  this  occurs,  folks  across 
the  land  will  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  as  well  as 
hearing  this  delightful,  talented  young  lady. 


62 


Dorese  Bell  comments  on  news  and  people  over  ABC  Radio  (except  WABC,  New  York),  Tues.  and  Thurs.,  at  8:55  A.M.  and  4:25  P.M.  EDT. 


STORIES  of  the  day 


ART  WANER 

Art  Waner  was  destined  to  be  a  musician — even 
though  he  enrolled  at  New  York  University  intent 
on  becoming  a  schoolteacher.  Soon,  however,  he  real- 
ized that  teaching  was  no  easy  chore,  so  he  switched 
to  music.  Why?  "Because  I  just  happened  to  like  it." 
Many  other  important  things  "just  happened"  to  Art. 
After  he  had  graduated  from  college,  he  happened  to 
be  walking  by  the  once-popular  Leon  and  Eddy's  night 
club  and  decided  to  stop  in  and  see  the  manager.  It 
just  so  happened  that  the  club's  pianist  was  sick  and, 
when  Art  said  he  was  a  pianist,  the  manager  hired 
him  for  the  night.  That  one  night  turned  into  an  eight- 
year  stint  and  the  makings  of  Art's  career.  Upon  leav- 
ing Leon  and  Eddy's,  Art  formed  a  larger  orchestra  than 
the  one  he'd  had  and  moved  on  to  the  famous  Latin 
Quarter.  He's  been  there  ever  since,  playing  music 
that's  "sweet  with  a  beat."  ABC  listeners  have  also  been 
enjoying  "the  piano  of  Art  Waner  and  his  orchestra" 
each  afternoon  on  Latin.  Quarter  Matinee.  As  added 
spice,  Art  provides  record  collectors  with  some  of  his 
own  songs  on  the  M-G-M  label.  All  of  which  makes  his 
life  a  continuous  but  happy  one  of  music,  music,  music. 

Latin  Quarter  Matinee,  ABC  Radio  (not  WABC) ,  M-F,  4  P.M.  EDT. 

Jfitffiw£flfl^ 


Latin  Quarter  Matinee:  Star  Art  Waner  provides 
lively  musical  accompaniment  for  guest  star  Jerry 
Colonna  as  he  bellows  a  serenade  to  Latin  Quarter 
chorines  Kay  Kier,  Sue  Mengers,  Beverly  Richards. 


1 


63 


DORESE  BELL 

|  r  ever  a  perpetual-motion  award  were  created,  one  of 
I  its  leading  contenders  would  certainly  be  Dorese 
Bell.  One  of  the  busiest,  brightest  and  most  beautiful 
young  ladies  in  radio,  she  airs  her  stimulating  Dorese 
Bell  Show  twice  a  day  on  Tuesdays  and  Thursdays  over 
ABC.  The  rest  of  her  time  is  spent  gathering  the  wealth 
of  news  and  information  she  presents,  interviewing 
celebrities,  and  covering  any  and  all  the  events  of  in- 
terest to  women.  "My  work  keeps  me  busy  almost  24 
hours  a  day,  seven  days  a  week,"  says  Dorese,  adding 
enthusiastically,  "but  I  love  it.  It  is  my  life,  my  love— 
everything."  .  .  .  Dorese  was  born  in  Birmingham,  Ala- 
bama, and  was  graduated  with  honors  from  Arlington 
Hall  College  in  Virginia.  Then  she  studied  for  two 
years  at  the  American  Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts.  The 
day  after  she  left  the  Academy  she  won  a  leading  role 
In  the  Broadway  production  of  "Junior  Miss."  This  was 
followed  by  a  season  of  summer  stock  in  Milwaukee 
and  a  part  in  "Many  Happy  Returns,"  with  Mary  Astor. 
During  the  war,  Dorese  toured  the  East  as  the  United 
Nations  Victory  Queen,  selling  War  Bonds.  Then,  after 
spending  a  year  in  Hollywood,  she  settled  down  in 
Rochester,  New  York.  Since  there  were  ho  dramatic 
openings  there,  Dorese  decided  to  try  something  differ- 
ent. "One  night,"  she  explains,  "I  shot  up  in  bed  and  said 
to  myself,  "That's  it — radio!' "  The  next  day  she  visited 
one  of  Rochester's  stations,  and  talked  officials  into  hir- 
ing her.  The  result — she  became  Women's  Editor  and 
Radio  Commentator  at  Station  WRNY,  and  later  was 
femcee,  writer  and  producer  of  the  WHAM-TV  show, 
Hi  Neighbor.  When  the  yen  to  travel  came  again, 
Dorese  moved  to  Washington,  D.  O,  and  appeared  as 
hostess  on  shows  such  as  G-E  Theater  and  TV  Card 


STARS  and 

ABC  Radio  serves  its  listeners 
across  the  land  with  a  tasty  daytime 
fare  of  music,  news  and  drama 


STORIES  of  the  day 


A 


IHvv, 


4 


Girl-on-the-go  at  the  Capitol:  Dorese  gets  the  lat- 
est news  and  views  from  Sen.  and  Mrs.  Douglas. 

Party.  However,  she  discovered  her  true  niche  when 
she  was  given  her  present-type  show.  .  .  .  Since 
January,  Dorese  has  been  broadcasting  from  New  York, 
but  weekends  she  commutes  to  Washington  to  visit  her 
folks.  Because  she  has  been  such  a  girl-on-the-go, 
Dorese  hasn't  had  time  to  "collect"  hobbies — except  for 
her  beloved  little  Cairn  terrier,  "Tiger."  And,  in  spite 
of  her  hectic  pace,  Dorese  says,  "I've  never  been  sick  a 
day  in  my  life.  I  get  my  sleep  on  trains,  planes  and 
buses.  I  even  take  a  three-minute  nap  in  the  studio, 
just  before  air  time."  As  to  the  future,  Dorese  looks 
forward  to  even  more  work,  and  hopes  to  have  her  show 
on  TV  as  well  as  radio.  When  this  occurs,  folks  across 
the  land  will  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  as  well  as 
hearing  this  delightful,  talented  young  lady. 


Dorese  Bell  comment*  on  news  and  people  over  ABC  Radio  (except  WABC,  New  York),  Tues.  and  Thurs.,  at  8:55  A.M.  and  4:25  P.M.  EDT. 


ART  WANER 

Art  Waner  was  destined  to  be  a  musician— -even 
though  he  enrolled  at  New  York  University  intent 
on  becoming  a  schoolteacher.  Soon,  however,  he  real- 
ized that  teaching  was  no  easy  chore,  so  he  switched 
to  music.  Why?  "Because  I  just  happened  to  like  it." 
Many  other  important  things  "just  happened"  to  Art. 
After  he  had  graduated  from  college,  he  happened  to 
be  walking  by  the  once-popular  Leon  and  Eddy's  night 
club  and  decided  to  stop  in  and  see  the  manager.  It 
just  so  happened  that  the  club's  pianist  was  sick  and, 
when  Art  said  he  was  a  pianist,  the  manager  hired 
him  for  the  night.  That  one  night  turned  into  an  eight- 
year  stint  and  the  makings  of  Art's  career.  Upon  leav- 
ing Leon  and  Eddy's,  Art  formed  a  larger  orchestra  than 
the  one  he'd  had  and  moved  on  to  the  famous  Latin 
Quarter.  He's  been  there  ever  since,  playing  music 
thaf  s  "sweet  with  a  beat."  ABC  listeners  have  also  been 
enjoying  "the  piano  of  Art  Waner  and  his  orchestra 
each  afternoon  on  Latin  Quarter  Matinee.  As  added 
spice,  Art  provides  record  collectors  with  some  of  his 
own  songs  on  the  M-G-M  label.  All  of  which  makes  his 
life  a  continuous  but  happy  one  of  music,  music,  music. 

latin  Quarter  Matinee,  ABC  Radio  (not  WABC) ,  M-F,  4  P.M.  EDT. 


Latin  Quarter  Matinee:  Star  Art  Waner  provides 
lively  musical  accompaniment  for  guest  star  Jerry 
Colonna  as  he  bellows  a  serenade  to  Latin  Quarter 
chorines  Kay  Kier,  Sue  Mongers,  Beverly  Richards. 


STARS  and 


(Continued) 


WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES 

A  marriage,  to  be  truly  successful,  must  be 
based  on  mutual  understanding.  Without 
this,  a  man  and  wife  would  find  it  impossible 
to  weather  the  storms  that  can  besiege  even 
the  happiest  partnership.  Throughout  their 
married  years,  Joan  and  Harry  Davis  have 
known  great  happiness  together  and,  though 
their  love  has  often  been  tested  to  the  fullest, 
it  has  never  been  found  wanting.  There  is 
much  to  be  learned  from  Joan  and  Harry; 
they  are  to  be  admired  and  respected  for 
showing  others — through  the  unfolding  of  their 
own  lives — that  there  is,  come  what  may, 
everything  to  gain  When  A  Girl  Marries. 


When  A  Girl  Marries,  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  10:45  A.M. 
EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Air- Wick,  Nylast,  other  products. 


Harry  and  Joan  Davis  (portrayed  by  John  Raby  and 
Mary  Jane  Higby)  find  their  marriage  once  again  put 
to  the  test  as  they  try  to  overcome  financial  adversity. 


64 


Gertrude  Warner  as  Hope  Winslow. 


WHISPERING  STREETS 

Along  all  the  infinite  highways  and  byways 
of  the  world  there  are  many  whispering 
voices  to  be  heard — of  people  past  and  present. 
A  baby's  cry  ...  a  telephone  conversation  .  .  . 
a  shout  of  anger  ...  a  song  of  love  .  .  .  each 
is  a  clue  to  some  personal  drama  that  can 
prove  to  be  filled  with  excitement,  happiness, 
tragedy.  Hope  Winslow  has  always  been  par- 
ticularly sensitive  to  such  sounds,  and,  as 
narrator  of  Whispering  Streets,  she  introduces 
her  listeners  each  week  to  a  new,  dramatic 
story  that  takes  us  one  step  farther  down 
life's  path  and  helps  us  to  understand  more 
fully  the  whisperings  we  ourselves  hear. 

Whispering  Streets,  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  10:25  A.M.  EDT, 
for  Carnation  Evaporated  Milk  and  Friskies  Dog  Food. 


Tom  Collins,  Edith  Ivy  and  Evelyn  Patrick  find  themselves  in  a 
tense  situation  during  an  episode  of  Whispering  Streets,' which 
dramatizes  the  many  varied  phases  of  present  American  life. 


STORIES  off  the  day 


The  eternal  triangle  has  a  happy  ending,  as  acted  by  William  Windom,  Lorna  Lynn  and  Lon  Clark,  on  My  True  Story. 

MY  TRUE  STORY 


Iife  has  many  lessons  to  teach  all  of  us.  Sometimes, 
■  we  must  learn  these  lessons  through  suffering  and 
seeing  others  suffer.  But  we  should  never  forget,  when 
we  find  ourselves  in  troubled  times,  that  there  are  others 
who  have  been  through  a  similar  experience  .  .  .  and 
are  all  the  wiser  for  it.  And,  when  these  people  tell 
their  story — their  own  true  story — they  open  the  door 
to  happiness  for  countless  others.  This  is  what  happens 
on  My  True  Story,  which,  each  day,  dramatizes  a 
chapter  from  the  book  of  life.    Each  episode,  taken  from 


the  files  of  True  Story  Magazine,  is  a  real-life  drama 
which  shows  how  people  have  met  and  triumphed  over 
the  universal  problems  of  love,  jealousy  and  hate,  hope, 
fear  and  despair.  The  people  involved  could  easily  be 
your  friends  .  .  .  your  neighbors  .  .  .  your  own  family. 
The  problems  they  have  to  solve  might  well  be  the 
ones  you  are  facing.  My  True  Story  brings  to  life — 
and  right  into  your  fife — the  stirring,  heart-rending 
experiences  which  have  helped  untold  listeners  avoid 
tragedy  and  find  living  ever  more  worthwhile. 


My  True  Story,  ABC  Radio,  M-F,  10  A.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Sterling  Drug  Inc.  for  Bayer  Aspirin,  Haley's  M-O,  and  other  products. 


65 


Like  Margie  herself,  Gale  Storm  takes  life  joyously — 

but  with  an  abiding  faith  which  gives  her  the 


Answer  to  Her  Prayers 


?      *, 


:.v  *T« 


-  v*      ,  *  +  %         •  ■  .  \    ,  »- 

Home  from  work,  husband  Lee  is  welcomed  by  Sale  and  "Jolie." 


By  BUD  GOODE 

One  day  at  Sunday  school,  when  Gale 
Storm  was  just  six  years  old,  the 
teacher  was  talking  about  faith,  hope 
and  charity.   "I  knew  what  hope  and 
charity  were,"  says  Gale,  "but,  to  a  six- 
year-old,  faith  was  like  the  mysteries 
of  long  division  in  kindergarten.   When  I 
came  into  my  mother's  sewing  room 
that  afternoon,  I  asked  her. 

"  'Honey,'  she  said,  'faith  is  like  a  bank 
account  of  prayers.  In  order  to  increase 
your  belief  you  have  to  deposit  your 
prayers  every  day.' " 

Gale's  mother,  Mrs.  Minnie  Cottle, 
painted  a  word  picture  she  could  under- 
stand. The  example  Mrs.  Cottle  set  for 
Gale,  her  brothers  and  sisters,  made 
religion  a  way  of  living.    When  Gale  was  a 
child,  every  Sunday,  with  their  mother 
in  the  lead,  the  Cottle  family  trotted  off 
to  the  local  Methodist  church,  following 
one  another  in  stair-step  order,  right 
down  to  little  Gale.  At  two  and  a  half,  fair 
hair  bobbing,  she  toddled  along  six  heads 
below  her  older  brother's  shoulder,  very 
much  like  the  family's  pet  duck. 

Continued         k. 


The  Bonnells  have  a  very  private  garden  just  outside  their  "his"  and  "her"  bathrooms. 


Time    out   froni  boi 


66 


** 


My  Little  Margie  sets  off  for  radio — while  Lee  and  sons    Phillip,  Peter  and  Paul  are  still  watching  for  Sale  on  TV. 
I  . 
♦>oth  Lee's  insurance  business  and  Sale's  broadcasting,  as  the   Bonnells  relax  with  Phillip  (below,  left),   Paul,   Peter,  and  Jolie. 


v  « 


fggr     $g*  r** 


■m* 


h-'jJM 


Like  Margie  herself,  Gale  Storm  takes  life  joyously — 

but  with  an  abiding  faith  which  gives  her  the 


Answer  to  Her  Prayers 


By  BUD  GOODE 

One  day  at  Sunday  school,  when  Gale 
Storm  was  just  six  years  old,  the 
teacher  was  talking  about  faith,  hope 
and  charity.   "I  knew  what  hope  and 
charity  were,"  says  Gale,  "but,  to  a  six- 
year-old,  faith  was  like  the  mysteries 
of  long  division  in  kindergarten.   When  I 
came  into  my  mother's  sewing  room 
that  afternoon,  I  asked  her. 

"  'Honey,'  she  said,  'faith  is  like  a  bank 
account  of  prayers.  In  order  to  increase 
your  belief  you  have  to  deposit  your 
prayers  every  day.' " 

Gale's  mother,  Mrs.  Minnie  Cottle, 
painted  a  word  picture  she  could  under- 
stand. The  example  Mrs.  Cottle  set  for 
Gale,  her  brothers  and  sisters,  made 
religion  a  way  of  living.    When  Gale  was  a 
child,  every  Sunday,  with  their  mother 
in  the  lead,  the  Cottle  family  trotted  off 
to  the  local  Methodist  church,  following 
one  another  in  stair-step  order,  right 
down  to  little  Gale.  At  two  and  a  half,  fair 
hair  bobbing,  she  toddled  along  six  heads 
below  her  older  brother's  shoulder,  very 
much  like  the  family's  pet  duck. 


Continued 


Home  from  work,  husband  Lee  is  welcomed  by  Sale  and  "Jol 

The  Bonnells  have  a  very  private  garden  just  outside  their  "his"  and  "her"  bathrooms. 


My  Little  Margie  sets  off  for  radio — while  Lee  and  sons   Phillip,  Peter  and  Paul  are  still  watching  for  Gale  on  TV. 
Time    out   from   I  both  Lee's  insurance  business  and  Gale's  broadcasting,  as  the  Bonnells  relax  with  Phillip  (below,  left),  Paul,  Peter,  and  Jolie. 


Answer  to  Her  Prayers 


(Continued) 


The   many  unusual  features  of  their  home — such  as 
fish  tanks  in  the  walls! — get  loving  care  from  Sale. 


Gale's  very  industrious  mother,  supporting  her 
brood  of  five  with  her  sewing,  had  one  foible:  Nearly 
every  Saturday  night — late — she  insisted  on  starting 
a  needle-and-thread  project.  Sunday,  after  church, 
of  course,  she  simply  had  to  finish  it.  When  Gale 
pointed  out  that  Sunday  was  a  day  of  rest,  her  mother 
said,  "When  the  ox  is  in  the  ditch,  you  have  to  pull 
him  out.  That's  straight  from  the  Bible.  Now  you 
children  go  out  and  play."   The  fact  was  that  Mrs. 
Cottle  had  to  sew  on  Sundays  to  keep  her  family  going. 

Today,  Gale  still  likes  to  do  some  of  her  own 
sewing.   (She  picked  out  the  material  for  the  curtains 
in  her  new  home;  in  their  former  house,  she  made 
the  curtains,  drapes,  and  denim  bedspreads  in  the 
boys'  room).   Sunday  is  Gale's  only  day  free  from  TV 
and  radio.  When  her  husband,  Lee  Bonnell,  says: 
"Today  is  supposed  to  be  a  day  of  rest,"  Gale  replies, 
"When  the  ox  is  in  the  ditch.  .  .  ."   It's  one  of 
her  favorite  expressions. 

Gale  and  Lee  had  the  same  religious  background 
and  training.    This  was  very  important  to  them 
when  she  and  Lee  decided  to  get  married.  Marriage 
is  the  most  reverent  act  in  all  our  lives,  and,  in  taking 
the  step,  it's  good  to  have  many  things  in  common — 
a  spiritual  bond  is  one  of  the  most  important.  When 
Gale  and  Lee  decided  to  marry,  the  first  thing 
they  wanted  to  do  was  join  a  church. 

"My  Little  Margie,"  says  Gale,  "had  nothing  on  me. 
I  was  just  as  zany  as  she  is.    When,  at  seventeen,  I 
told  my  mother,  'I've  just  met  the  man  I'm  going  to 
marry,'  she  said,  'Yes,  dear,'  in  a  maddeningly 
patronizing  way.  When  I  said,  'It's  really  him — I  know 
it  is!'  she  looked  at  me  as  if  there  were  no  hope. 

"But  a  year  later,  when  I  told  her,  'We're  seriously 
looking  for  a  church  to  join  together,'  she  changed 
her  mind.  Mother  thought  this  was  the  most  sensible 
thing  two  young  people  could  do,  who  had  marriage 
in  mind.  'There  might,'  she  (Continued  on  page  84) 

Gale  Storm  is  My  Little  Margie— as  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Wed.,  8:30 
P.M.  EDT,  for  Scott  Paper  Co.— heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Sun.,  8:30 
P.M.  EDT,  for  Philip  Morris  Cigarettes  and  Campana  Sales  Co. 


Counter  service 


Sale  as  short-order  chef.  "Bricks"  in  fireplace  are  really  petrified  wood. 


The  Mariners 

(Continued  from  page  39) 
nothing    but    love,    and    she    gives    them 
plenty."    He    grins,    "Anyway,    there's    no 
chance  of  her  ever  being  lonely." 

The  man  who  doesn't  see  quite  eye-to- 
eye  with  Karl  on  a  "family  unlimited"  is 
Nat  Dickerson.  Nat  has  two  children  and 
— considering  today's  cost  of  living — thinks 
two  is  just  about  right.  And  he  has  an- 
other thought:  He  and  his  wife  Ellen  are 
looking  forward  to  the  day  when  they 
will  get  a   little  time  for  each  other. 

Ellen,  although  she  stands  only  five-two, 
is  so  feminine  and  charming  that  it's  al- 
most impossible  to  imagine  keeping  her  a 
secret  for  a  whole  year — but  that's  what 
Nat  did.  Ellen  was  a  secret  bride,  and  it 
was  wholly  a  result  of  career  problems. 

Nat  was  born  in  Waycross,  Georgia,  but 
he  was  still  a  child  when  the  family  moved 
to  Philadelphia.  That's  where  his  musical 
education  began.  Later,  he  went  to  Fisk 
University  and  was  a  featured  singer  with 
the  renowned  Jubilee  Singers.  He  then 
studied  voice  at  Juilliard  School  of  Music. 
He  appeared  in  the  Broadway  production 
of  "Porgy  and  Bess,"  and  gave  a  concert 
at  Carnegie  Recital  Hall.  He  won  the 
coveted  Marian  Anderson  scholarship 
which  enabled  him  to  study  voice  private- 
ly for  one  year.  Nat  had  a  great  voice. 
But  he  wasn't  rich,  because  concert  sing- 
ers don't  get  rich  very  quickly  or  very 
often.  And  when,  in  1945,  he  fell  in  love, 
his  troubles  began. 

Nat  had  sponsors,  several  wealthy 
people  who  were  contributing  to  his  ad- 
vanced study.  They  believed  in  Nat,  but 
they  paid  his  expenses  for  art's  sake,  and 
they  thought  marriage  would  interfere 
with  his  progress.  "A  lot  of  people  feel 
that  way,"  Nat  says  charitably.  "People 
have  the  idea  that  an  artist  can't  have  time 
for   a   family.     It's   not   necessarily   true." 

After  quite  a  bit  of  debate,  inner  and 
outer,  Nat  and  Ellen  were  married.  They 
told  only  his  parents  and  her  parents. 
Beyond  that,  not  even  brothers  and  sis- 
ters knew.  "And  I  made  wonderful  prog- 
ress with  my  voice,"  Nat  says. 

In  his  honeymoon  year,  he  won  a  place 
in  another  Broadway  hit,  "Finian's  Rain- 
bow." That  same  year,  the  Mariners  be- 
came a  permanent  fixture  on  the  Godfrey 
show.  However,  not  even  the  boys  in  the 
quartet  knew  he  was  married. 

Finally,  in  1947,  Nat  and  Ellen  sent  out 
formal  wedding  invitations — but  the  an- 
nouncement was  dated  for  June  22,  1946. 
"We're  already  married,"  Nat  explained. 
"We're  just  a  little  late  with  the  invi- 
tations." 

Nat  has  two  children,  a  little  girl  six 
years  old  and  a  boy  who  will  be  four  this 
July.  Ellen  has  insisted  that  they  both 
be  named  after  their  father  so  they  are, 
respectively,  Natalie  and  Nathaniel. 

The  Dickersons  recently  moved  from 
Jersey  into  a  new  ranch-style  home  in 
Stamford,  Connecticut.  Ellen  has  furnished 
the  house  in  modern  with  a  trace  of  Chi- 
nese. She  enjoys  working  with  colors, 
whether  it's  in  the  garden  and  the  house 
or  in  choosing  clothes  for  Nat.  She  always 
selects  Nat's  suit  and  tie  and  shirt  for 
the  next  day.  "She  has  to,"  Nat  says.  "I 
pick  terrible   color   combinations." 

For  the  quartet's  top  tenor,  the  day 
starts  at  five-thirty.  The  kids  are  up,  too, 
and  Nat's  good  for  a  short  game  of  hide- 
and-seek  while  he's  shaving.  They  all 
breakfast  together.  Nat  has  learned  to  eat 
soft-boiled  eggs  for  the  sake  of  the  chil- 
dren. Now  he  can  do  it  with  hardly  a 
grimace.  Between  seven  and  seven-thirty, 
he  catches  a  train  into  Manhattan.  Usually, 
when  he  gets  home,  everyone  is  asleep. 

The   children   are   devoted   to   Nat   and, 


3i'#£ 


EVEN  IF  YOU  BRUSH  YOUR  TEETH 
ONLY  ONCE  A  DAY 

Colgate  Dental  Cream 
Gives  The  Surest  Protection 


All  Day  Long ! 


Brushing  For  Brushing,  It's  The  Surest  Protection 

Ever  Offered  By  Any  Toothpaste!  Because  Only  Colgate  Dental  Cream 

—Of  All  Leading  Toothpastes— Contains  Gardol* 

To  Guard  Against  Tooth  Decay  Longer- Stop  Bad  Breath  Instantly! 


gA*d< 


Gardol,  Colgate's  wonderful 
new  decay-fighter,  forms  an  in- 
visible shield  around  your  teeth. 
You  can't  feel  it,  taste  it,  or  see 
it— but  Gardol's  protection 
won't  rinse  off  or  wear  off  all 
day.  That's  why  Colgate  Dental 
Cream  with  Gardol  fights  tooth 
decay  12  hours  or  more! 


ASK  YOUR  DENTIST  HOW  OFTEN 
YOU  SHOULD  BRUSH  YOUR  TEETH! 

But  remember!  Even  if  you  brush  only  once 
a  day,  Colgate  Dental  Cream  gives  the  surest 
protection  all  day  long!  Stops  bad  breath  in- 
stantly in  7  out  of  10  cases  that  originate  in  the 
mouth!  Fights  tooth  decay  12  hours  or  more! 
In  fact,  clinical  tests  showed  the  greatest  reduc- 
tion in  tooth  decay  in  toothpaste  history! 


♦Colgate's  Trade- Mark  For  Sodium' 
N-lauioyl  Sarcosinate. 


Every  Time  You  Use  It. 

CLEANS  YOUR  BREATH 


..New  Colgate  Dental  Cream 

'^"GUARDS  YOUR  TEETH! 


69 


The  kids  once  woke  Tom  Lockard  glee- 
fully to  tell  him  the  yard  was  flooded! 


when  he  is  home  weekends,  dog  him 
around  the  house  and  through  the  dog- 
wood in  the  yard.  But  from  Natalie — for 
whom  he  lear-ed  to  eat  soft-boiled  eggs — 
Nat  got  a  knuckle-rapping.  She  and  her 
brother  were  arguing  over  a  book — a  book 
that  didn't  belong  to  either.  Father,  angry, 
snatched  it  out  of  her  hand.  "She  didn't 
say  a  word,"  Nat  recalls.  "At  least  a  half- 
hour  went  by,  and  then  she  came  up  to 
me  and  noted.  'Daddy,  you  shouldn't 
grab  things  from  people.  It's  ill-man- 
nered.' "  Nat  adds:  "That's  the  first  time 
I  had  the  feeling  she  was  really  growing 
up.  I  think  very  soon  now  Ellen  and  I 
will  have  our  independence." 

Ten  minutes  away,  in  New  Canaan,  with 
Norwegian  spruce  instead  of  dogwood, 
lives  big  Jim  Lewis.  Jim  is  the  man  who 
submerges  for  those  low  bass  notes.  Jim 
is  tall  and  handsome.  His  appearance  gen- 
erally belies  his  intensity. 

Jim  was  born  and  raised  in  Birmingham. 
As  a  child  he  studied  music  and,  by  the 
time  he  got  to  high  school,  was  singing 
solo  and  leading  the  school  orchestra.  He 
graduated  from  Talladega  College  with  a 
major  in  sociology. .  But,  when  he  got  to 
New  York,  he  auditioned  for  Bill  Robin- 
son's Broadway  production  of  "The  Hot 
Mikado"  and  was  hired.  Afterwards,  Jim 
played  the  Ruban  Bleu  and  Cafe  Society 
night  clubs. 

Jim  was  working  in  the  recreation  of- 
fice of  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  station  at 
Manhattan  Beach,  New  York,  in  1942,  when 
the  Mariners  first  organized.  Each  of  the 
boys  was  performing  individually  at  camp 
functions  until  an  officer  asked  them  to 
sing  as  a  group.  "Even  though  each  of  us 
was  kind  of  a  prima  donna,"  Jim  recalls, 
"we  tried  it  and  liked  it.  We  thought  we'd 
like  to  stick  together."  An  admiral  heard 
them  and  decided  that  they  would.  So  for 


70 


Martin    Karl    works   on    his    music    when 
not  performing — or  attending  the  PTA. 


the  duration  of  the  war,  as  the  Coast 
Guard  Quartet,  they  performed  at  hos- 
pitals, canteens,  theaters,  bond  rallies  and 
on  radio  programs. 

Even  then,  Jim  Lewis  began  to  handle 
the  business  end  of  the  quartet.  Maybe 
that's  why  he  was  the  last  to  marry.  Jim 
didn't  marry  until  well  after  the  war. 
When  he  met  Janice  Brooks,  she  was  at 
Columbia  University  working  on  her  mas- 
ter's degree.  Her  major  was  public  health 
and  she  held  a  B.S.  degree  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  California,  besides  being  a 
Registered  Nurse.  Jim  found  her  charm- 
ing, intelligent  and  nice  to  look  at. 

"We  kind  of  stalled  about  getting  mar- 
ried," Jim  says.  "We  were  in  love,  but  I 
wasn't  ready.  Then  Janice  went  back  to 
her  home  in  California,  for  she  had  real- 
ly come  East  only  to  study.  She  was  back 
there  a  year  when  I  proposed  by  phone." 

They  married  in  1948  and,  until  a  year 
ago,  lived  in  New  York.  Now,  in  Con- 
necticut, they  have  a  handsome,  white, 
split-level  house  that  is  loaded  with  J's. 
"We're  not  superstitious  or  anything,"  Jim 
says,  "but  it  just  kind  of  happened.  We 
named  our  first  baby  Janeen,  after  her 
mother  and  her  grandmother  Jane.  That 
was  four  years  ago.  Last  Christmas  day, 
we  had  our  second  little  girl,  and  she  is 
named  Jacyn." 

The  names,  Janeen  and  Jacyn,  are  in- 
ventions of  Jim  and  Janice.  So  is  the  name 
of  their  Airedale,  Juba.  Jim  is  keen  about 
dogs  and,  until  recently,  raised  shep- 
herds. He's  taken  courses  in  training  and 
breeding  but,  for  lack  of  time,  has  given 
it  up  as  an  avocation. 

Their  home  is  furnished  in  what  Jim 
calls  "conservative  modern."  They  have 
designated  one  little  room  as  the  television 
room  so  that  it  won't  monopolize  every- 
thing else.  In  the  dining  room  there  is  a 
piece  described  as  a  "long,  low  highboy," 
which  Jim  himself  designed  to  hold  dish- 
es and  which  he  calls  a  "China  boy."  He 
also  designed  another  unit  which  is  the 
storage  spot  for  his  bar  paraphernalia 
and  record  collection.  Jim  collects  mostly 
old  recordings  of  great  singers — discs  like 
those  of  Battistini,  Caruso,  Chaliapin,  and 
others  from  the  golden   age   of  singing. 

He  is  kept  fully  occupied  on  weekends 
by  such  elemental  plantings  as  shrubbery 
and  rhododendrons.  This  past  spring,  he 
started  a  rock  garden.  "Collecting  rocks  in 
Connecticut  is  like  carrying  coals  to  New- 
castle," he  notes. 

Jim's  main  outside  interest  is  the  union. 
He  is  national  vice  president  of  AFTRA, 
the  American  Federation  of  Television  and 
Radio  Artists,  which  includes  almost  all 
regularly  employed  entertainers  in  the 
TV  and  radio  business. 

"I  have  been  doing  my  best  to  get 
Negroes  a  better  break  in  radio  and  TV," 
he  says.  "The  resistance  is  all  concen- 
trated in  the  industry,  from  the  top  to  the 
bottom.  It's  not  the  public  at  all,  so  far 
as  I  can  see."  He  adds,  "My  success  has 
been  small,  but  I  keep  trying." 

Jim's  efforts  in  this  direction  are,  he 
considers,  strictly  personal.  His  work  for 
improvement  of  race  relations  is  never 
done  in  the  name  of  the  quartet.  While  he 
feels  strongly  and  talks  persuasively  about 
a  world  where  people  can  work  together, 
he  is  not  emotional — just  intelligent  and 
fair.  He  is  by  nature  a  soft-spoken,  pleas- 
ant person  and  he  is  well  liked. 

Last  but  not  least  of  the  Mariners  is 
Tom  Lockard,  who  was  a  cook  in  the 
Coast  Guard  before  the  quartet  was 
formed.  Tom's  prior  experience  as  a  cook 
was  just  about  as  extensive  as  that  of 
most  "chefs"  in  the  services.  He  began 
to  study  piano  seriously  as  a  youngster — 
and,  after  each  day's  practice,  his  mother 
gave  him  cookies  and  milk.  In  his  teens, 
he  turned  to  voice — and  his  teacher  lived 


Photography  is  Nat  Dickerson's  hobby 
and    his   favorite   subject   is   his   family. 


in  a  house  that  was  only  five  blocks  from 
a  restaurant.  He  attended  El  Monte  High 
School  and  Pasadena  Junior  College — both 
schools  had  cafeterias.  Later,  he  majored 
in  music  at  U.C.L.A. — and  walked  by  a 
diner  almost  every  day.  He  sang  on  con- 
cert tours  and  radio;  he  had  an  engage- 
ment with  the  Los  Angeles  Opera  Com- 
pany— and  at  this  time  met  a  baritone 
who  cooked  spaghetti.  So,  naturally,  the 
Coast  Guard  made  Tom  Lockard  a  cook. 

Tom  is  one  Mariner  who  never  stopped 
"marinating."  He  has  always  lived  near 
or  on  the  ocean.  He  has  had  boats  when- 
ever he  could  afford  one.  Today,  he  has 
a  twenty-five-foot  Owens  cabin  express 
cruiser.  His  home  is  so  close  to  the  sea 
that  occasionally  the  tide  comes  halfway 
up  his  terrace. 

Tom's  wife,  Ginny,  is  a  petite  blonde, 
one  of  the  founders  of  the  Chordettes. 
Tom  and  Ginny  met  when  the  Chordettes 
were  members  of  the  Godfrey  family. 
They  were  married  in  1952.  Ginny  con- 
tinued singing  until  the  Chordettes  went 
on  the  road.  Then  she  quit  and  became  a 
housewife. 

They  live  in  a  single-level,  white  brick 
house.  It  originally  had  seven  rooms  but 
they  have  added  two.  "Had  to  do  it  for 
the  kids,"  Tom  explains.  Every  weekend 
and  during  vacations,  they  have  four 
children  in  their  home.  Ginny  and  Tom 
have  both  been  married  previously.  Tom 
has  two  daughters  from  his  first  marriage, 
Paula,  almost  seven,  and  Marlayna,  ten. 
Keith,  nine,  is  Ginny's  first  child.  Tom's 
and  Ginny's  baby  is  Kathleen,  who  is 
one-year-plus. 

During  the  past  winter,  Ginny  taught 
the  children  a  little  barber-shop  harmony. 
Tom  gave  lessons  in  ice  skating.  With 
warm  weather,  they  will  have  the  boat  out 
and  begin  their  excursions  to  the  cottage 


Jim    Lewis    baby-sits    when    his    wife    is 
busy  helping  Girl  Scouts  and  Red  Cross. 


on    Fire    Island,    just    off    Long    Island. 

Tom's  home  is  in  Freeport,  Long  Island, 
and  he  has  a  street  address,  but  the  house 
is  situated  between  two  canals,  the  nearest 
being   within   a   hundred   yards. 

One  night,  Tom  thought  he  heard  water 
lapping  on  the  lawn.  He  went  back  to 
sleep  figuring  it  was  his  imagination.  At 
six,  the  kids  woke  him  and  they  were 
delighted  with  the  sight  from  the  win- 
dows. The  tide  had  moved  in  a  hundred 
yards  and  was  halfway  up  their  lawn.  "I 
figured  that  another  three  feet  and  it 
would  be  in  the  living  room." 

Tom  phoned  the  fire  department — why 
he  chose  them  he  still  doesn't  know — and 
he  asked  what  was  the  time  for  high  tide. 
They  told  him  six  and,  since  it  was  just 
passing  six,  he  stopped  worrying.  The  kids 
were  still  having  a  ball  and,  with  glee, 
pointed  out  that  the  station  wagon,  parked 
at  the  curb,  was  half-submerged  in  water. 

"I  was  supposed  to  get  out  to  the  air- 
port," Tom  recalls.  "The  quartet  had  a 
date  out  of  town."  The  firemen  came  to 
his  rescue  and  toted  him  out  of  the  house. 

Otherwise,  Ginny  and  Tom  live  quietly. 
"We  go  to  a  night  club  about  once  a 
month  or  even  less  often,"  he  says,  "and 
that's  just  for  the  fun  of  getting  dressed 
up  and  getting  out.  We  always  get  bored 
quickly  and  go  home  early." 

Tom  and  Ginny  may  sing  together  for 
friends  or  just  for  the  fun  of  it.  Tom 
bought  Ginny  one  of  those  instruments 
called  a  "recorder,"  and  he  takes  to  the 
piano  for  instrumental  duets.  She  has  re- 
cently begun  to  study  voice  again. 

Ginny  has  staged  benefits  in  the  com- 
munity, for  she  has  had  enough  experi- 
ence in  the  business  to  coach  both  the 
dancing  and  singing.  Tom  always  helps 
out  on  the  program  by  donating  a  couple 
of  solos.  Ginny  is  also  a  "den  mother" 
for  the  Cub  Scouts.  "She  wears  a  Boy 
Scout  shirt  and  overseas  cap  to  the  meet- 
ings," Tom  observes.  "No  den  mother 
should  look  as  cute  as  she  does." 

1  om  is  by  far  a  better  cook,  but  Ginny 
does  most  of  the  cooking  and  finds  it  quite 
frustrating — for  Tom,  with  no  warning, 
goes  off  and  on  diets.  A  diet,  however, 
doesn't  stop  Tom  from  making  his  spe- 
cialty, Hungarian  goulash.  "You'd  think 
I  was  crazy  if  I  told  you  how  I  make  it," 
he  says.  "The  only  thing  that  doesn't  go 
in  it  is  Hungary.  That  stays  in  Europe." 

Tom,  like  his  children,  is  happy-go- 
lucky  to  a  degree.  He  is  also  very  serious. 
He  takes  both  his  work  and  people  seri- 
ously. He  likes  and  trusts  people— never 
locks  his  garage  or  home  or  his  locker  at 
the  Y  gym.    He's  a  thorough  optimist. 

But  it  all  began  for  Tom  and  the  others 
in  the  hold  of  a  troop  carrier  en  route  to 
the  South  Pacific.  A  tornado  was  raging 
and  the  war  was  still  on  with  the  Japa- 
nese. At  that  moment,  they  decided  to  go 
professional,  and  chose  the  name  of  The 
Mariners. 

The  pact  was  made  in  face  of  tremen- 
dous odds,  but  they've  kept  it!  With  Ar- 
thur's blessings,  they  have  established 
precedents  in  the  field  of  entertainment. 
They  have  overcome  individual  ambitions 
to  function  smoothly  as  a  team.  They've 
"grown  up"  together. 

"We're  closer  than  friends.  We're  more 
like  a  family,"  says  Martin  Karl.  "And  you 
know  the  way  a  family  gets.  In  spite  of 
divergent  views,  you  get  to  be  a  little 
alike.  It's   an   abstract  kind  of  thing." 

They  have  proven  their  faith  in  the 
idea  that  men  can  work  together.  Not 
least,  they  have  proven  their  faith  in  those 
millions  who  have  become  their  audience. 
The  Mariners  have  had  a  wonderful  suc- 
cess, and  it  couldn't  have  happened  to 
four   nicer   guys. 


s  there  an  air  ot  Ireshness 
about  you... always? 


...are  you  really  lovely  to  love? 


A  sweet,  appealing  air  of  freshness 
...  is  yours,  always  .  .  .  when  you  use 
Fresh  Cream  Deodorant. 

Fresh  keeps  you  free  from  embarrassing 
underarm  odor  and  stains.  Underarms  are 
dry!  For  Fresh  contains  the  most  highly 
effective  perspiration-checking  ingredient 
now  known  to  science. 

When  you  open  the  Fresh  jar  you'll 


a  Fresh  girl  is 
always  lovely  to  love 


discover  ...  its  delicate  fragrance  ...  its 
whiteness,  its  whipped  cream  smoothness. 
Not  a  trace  of  stickiness.  Not  a  trace  of 
greasiness.  Gentle  to  skin,  too. 

For  an  air  of  freshness  use  Fresh  Cream 
Deodorant  every  day— be  sure  you  are 
lovely  to  love,  always. 

FRESH    js  a  registered  trademark  of  Pharma-Craft  Cor- 
poration. Also  manufactured  and  distributed  in  Canada 


71 


Caesar's  Finest  Hour 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
faster  than  the  speed  of  light  .  .  .  travels 
212,000  miles  per  second,  whereas  the 
speed  of  light  is  only  186,000  miles  per 
second.  They're  getting  more  out  of  the 
spark  than  they're  putting  into  it — which 
may  revolutionize  the  whole  theory  of 
thermo-physics.  It  may  also  revolutionize 
the  theory  that  you  get  out  of  life  only 
what  you  put  into  it.  A  theory  I,  per- 
sonally, have  never  believed.  If  you  put 
something  good  into  life,  you  not  only  get 
it  back,  but  more  besides. 

"Or  maybe  we'd  talk  about  some  book 
we  were  reading — The  Day  Lincoln  Was 
Shot,  let's  say,  and  this  leads  to  a  discus- 
sion of  ballistics.  As  a  lover  of  guns,  and  a 
collector,  I  know  ballistics.  Because  I  do,  I 
know  Lincoln  could  have  been  saved.  I 
say  so.  This  leads  to  more  talk,  discussion, 
argument. 

"Talk  like  this,  of  other  jobs,  other 
professions,  other  problems,  and  other 
worlds  is  more  relaxing,  more  refreshing 
than  a  cruise,  a  vacation.  Cheaper,  too. 
You're  'getting  away  from  it  all'  while 
your  body,  which  is  expensive  to  move 
around,  stays  put. 

"A  couple  of  hours  of  talk,  then  Flor- 
ence and  the  kids  come  along  and  join  us. 
Before  dinner,  Florence  and  I  would  have 
a  couple  of  cocktails.  Then  dinner,  and  I'd 
go  off  my  diet,  have  lobster  with  drawn 
butter  sauce,  julienne  potatoes,  apple  pie 
with  a  big  hunk  of  yellow  cheese  on  the 
top  of  it.  After  dinner  I'd  like  to  just  sit 
a  while,  then  take  a  walk  with  Florence, 

•  get  a  little  romantic  with  Florence,  think- 
ing, when  you  live  a  lot,  and  at  such  a  fast 
pace,  you  don't  have  enough  time  to  walk, 
and  talk,  and  be  romantic.  .  .  . 

"Then  we'd  drive  home  and,  after  hear- 
ing the  kids  say  their  prayers  and  tucking 
them  in,  we'd  make  for  the  kitchen  where 
I'd  have  my  midnight  snack  of  stale  rye 
bread,  or  cornbread  (the  staler  the  bread, 
the  better  I  like  it),  bananas,  American 
cheese  and  milk.  This  is  my  midnight 
snack,"  said  the  six-foot  tall,  206-pound 
Caesar  (who  is  really  built!),  "every  night. 

"And  so  to  bed.  And  so  ends,"  Sid 
shrugged  and  smiled,  "the  day  off  I  haven't 
had!" 

And  isn't  likely  to  have  until  that  eighth 
day  is  added  to  his  crowded  calendar.  And 
should  have,  because  this  year  just  past 
has  been  not  only  a  crowded  year,  but  also 
a  crucial  year  in  Caesar's  life.  A  brand- 
new  leaf  of  a  year,  too,  for  when,  in  the 
spring  of  '54,  Sid  and  Imogene  Coca  split 
up  and  their  co-starring  career  on  Max 
Liebman's  Your  Show  Of  Shows,  which 
made  television  history,  then  belonged  to 
history,  Sid  formed  his  own  company, 
Shellric  Corporation — named  for  his  seven- 
year-old  daughter  Michele  (called  Shelley) 
and  his  three-year-old-son,  Richard 
(called  Rick). 

"I  went  through  a  very  difficult  period 
for  many  months,"  Sid  says.  "Getting  a 
new  organization  together  is  a  terrible 
job.  Not  only  in  the  matter  of  getting  the 
right  people  for  the  jobs  but,  and  this  is 
even  more  important,  of  getting  the  right 
people  for  you.  For,  if  someone  you  work 
with  is  not  chemically  right  for  you,  you 
rub  each  other  the  wrong  way  and  you 
don't  get  anywhereT 

"But  even  during  the  difficult  period," 
Sid  said  in  answer  to  my  question,  "I  did 

*  not  regret — I  do  not  ever  regret — that 
Coca   and   I   split   up.   I   enjoyed   working 

.  with  Imogene,  I  had  fun,  and  we  worked 
v  very  well  together.  But  she  is  a  star  in 
r     her  own  right  and  there  just  wasn't  enough 

time  for  both  of  us — someone  had  to  suffer. 

With  Nanette  Fabray,  who  is  also  a  star  in 


her  own  right,  and  very  much  so,  it  is 
easier  to  blend — perhaps  because,  as  per- 
formers, we're  less  alike  than  Coca  and 
I  .  .  .  don't  have  to  do  the  same  kind 
of  things  and  also  because,  on  Caesar's 
Hour,  'The  play's  the  thing!'  If  a  sketch 
calls  for  a  woman  to  have  the  spotlight, 
Fabray  has  the  spotlight.  If  the  sketch 
features  a  man,  I  am  featured.  We  don't 
have  to  write  for  two  stars.  It's  as  simple 
as  that. 

"That  Coca  and  I  should  part  company 
was  NBC's  idea,  however — not  hers,  or 
mine.  A  sound  idea  for  the  network  since 
they  now  have  three  shows — Max's  Spec- 
taculars, Coca's  show,  and  mine — in  place 
of  one.  For  Coca  and  me,  it's  a  matter  of 
going  up,  too.  Speaking  for  myself,  I'd 
been  with  Max  for  seven  years,  and  he 
taught  me  a  tremendous  amount.  But — 
it's  like  a  child  living  at  home  for  too 
long  ...  all  right  up  to  20  or  21,  then 
a  kid  has  to  get  out  on  his  own,  move  on, 
otherwise  he  becomes  stagnant." 

That  the  star,  likewise  the  owner  and 
proprietor,  of  Caesar's  Hour  should  ever 
become  stagnant  is  one  of  The  Things 
Least  Likely  To  Happen — that's  for  sure! 

oid  not  only  owns  the  show,  he  directs  it. 
He  not  only  directs  it,  he  sits  in  on  all 
the  meetings — with  his  producer,  Leo  Mor- 
gan, with  his  musical  director,  his  dance 
director,  the  technicians  and  with  his 
writers,  all  five  of  them.  It  is  with  his 
writers  that  Sid  spends  the  most  time — 
anywhere  from  one  to  three  hours  a  day 
(or  night)  planning  and  writing  the  show. 
Many  of  the  ideas  used  are  Caesar's  ideas. 
In  a  recent  show,  for  instance,  the  camera 
moved  from  one  couple  to  another — three 
in  all — as  they  were  arguing  about  whether 
they'd  go  to  the  fights  or,  as  the  wives 
wished,  to  a  concert.  Because  the  camera 
had  to  move  from  one  couple  to  the  other, 
and  show  each  under  a  different  roof,  at 
the  same  time,  a  difficult  technical  prob- 
lem arose — but  to  TV's  Caesar,  as  to 
Rome's,  problems  are  puzzles  to  be  solved 
and  difficulties  merely  objects  to  be  re- 
moved. His,  too,  the  idea  for  a  dance 
production,  a  bullfight  number  in  which 
the  charging  bull  was  played,  with  stun- 
ning effect,  by — the  camera! 

Even  when  Sid  is  not  at  a  meeting,  or 
rehearsing  the  customary  six  to  seven 
hours  a  day,  he's  Still  man-at-work  cata- 
loguing and  eventually  utilizing  people  he 
meets — the  things  he  sees  and  hears,  and 
also  everything  he  personally  experiences 
— as  raw  material  for  his  skits,  monologues 
and  pantomimes. 

There  was  the  time  visiting  relatives 
spent  an  afternoon  at  the  Caesar  apart- 
ment fussing  over  and  cuddling  the  small 
Shelley.  "She  spent  four  hours  on  peo- 
ple's laps  without  once  putting  foot  to 
floor,"  said  Sid  .  .  .  and  next  thing  you 
know,  there  was  a  skit  portraying  a  baby's 
indignation  over  adult  stupidity. 

After  a  harried  couple  of  hours  trying 
to  teach  Florence  to  change  gears,  Sid 
worked  up  a  car  driving  routine  that  was 
riotous. 

He's  also  been  a  husband  who  has  just 
had  a  fight  with  his  wife  and  suddenly 
thinks  of  things  he  should  have  said;  an 
awkward  boy  attending  his  first  dance  and 
then — seen  several  years  later — in  all  his 
revolting  self-confidence  as  a  jitterbug. 
He's  been  a  waiter  soothing  the  customers, 
as  only  Caesar  can  soothe,  while  the  res- 
taurant kitchen  burns.  A  Great  Lover  of 
the  Broadway  stage,  who  loses  his  voice, 
his  glamour  and  his  girl  only  to  retrieve 
all  three  as  "the  curtain  falls."  He  is, 
perennially,  "The  Professor,"  with  his  dou- 
ble-talking   "foreign"    languages. 


As  boys  in  Yonkers,  New  York,  Sid  and 
his  two  older  brothers  worked  as  bouncers 
in  their  father's  restaurant,  the  St.  Clair 
Lunch.  It  was  while  listening  to  the  thun- 
derous renunciations  of  the  patrons  who 
were  no  longer  welcome  that  Caesar  began 
to  amass  his  extraordinary  repertoire  of 
dialects,  accents  and  "foreign  languages." 

With  "human  comedy"  as  his  source  of 
material  Caesar  is  still — at  all  hours  of  the 
day  and  night,  and  everywhere — adding 
to  his  amazing  virtuosity. 

All  this — and  the  business  administra- 
tion of  Shellric,  too!  For,  although  the 
sponsors  of  Caesar's  Hour  pay  NBC-TV 
for  the  air  time,  they  render  unto  Caesar 
the  monies  for  the  show,  and  it  is  Caesar 
who  pays  his  own  salary  and  the  salaries 
of  the  talent  and  the  office  personnel  he 
himself  hires.  He  also  takes  the  tab  for 
the  rental  of  Shellric's  offices,  which  are 
sumptuously  housed  on  two  floors  of  the 
Milgrim  Building  on  New  York's  West 
57th  Street.  On  the  lower  floor  the  pro- 
ducer, dance  and  musical  directors,  writ- 
ers and  secretaries  have  their  well- 
equipped  offices.  On  the  lower  floor  also 
is  the  rehearsal  hall,  vast  and  airy  and 
hung  with  silken  draperies  the  color  of 
the  sun.  On  the  upper  floor  is  Sid's  private 
office  and  this  is  quite  a  deal!  The  colors 
of  walls  and  furnishings — well-upholstered, 
man-size  chairs,  a  wide,  deep,  extra-long 
davenport,  wall-to-wall  carpeting — are 
mostly  strong  greens  and  reds.  The  ceiling- 
to-floor  draperies  are  putty-colored.  There 
is  a  21-inch  screen  color  television  set. 
Among  the  many  paintings  on  the  walls 
(browsing  about  art  galleries  and  collect- 
ing guns  are  Sid's  two  rather  incongruous 
hobbies)  I  spotted  a  Picasso  and  a  Rouault. 
Over  the  massive  desk,  a  skylight  opens 
to  the  heavens.  Sid's  lunch  is  served  him 
at  his  desk.  It  is  prepared,  in  a  small 
kitchenette  at  the  end  of  the  corridor 
leading  to  the  office,  by  Homer,  the  pleas- 
ant-faced man  who  caters  to  the  inner 
man  of  Shellric  Corp.'s  headman. 

"In  this  office,  and/or  the  rehearsal  hall, 
1  spend  more  time,"  Sid  told  me,  "than 
I  do  at  home." 

With  Caesar,  as  with  Steve  Allen,  Jackie 
Gleason,  Garry  Moore  and  the  other  head- 
liners  on  TV,  time — or  the  lack  of  it — 
is  the  chronic  and  common  complaint,  as 
common  as  the  common  cold.  Lack  of  time 
for  rest  and  recreation  .  .  .  for  friends. 
Lack  of  time  for  family  life,  which  Sid 
holds  to  be  the  gravest  lack  of  all — for, 
as  he  so  wisely  says:  "If  you  have  a  high 
TV  rating,  that's  good,  that's  fine,  that's 
what  you're  working  for,  what  you  want, 
but — the  rating  that  really  counts  is  the 
one  you  have  with  your  family." 

Caesar's  rating,  both  on  TV  and  at  home, 
which  is  a  comfortable,  large  apartment  on 
New  York's  upper  Park  Avenue,  is,  as  of 
now,  slightly  astronomical. 

That  his  TV  rating  should  be  Up  There 
is  to  be  expected,  if  the  rewards  of  honest 
and  unremitting  labor  are  all  they're 
cracked  up  to  be.  But  for  the  satisfactory 
state  of  affairs  at  work  and  at  home,  Sid 
thanks  the  cure  he  has  found  for  the 
"common  complaint"  (said  to  be  incurable) 
afflicting  the  TV  greats. 

"What  I  do,"  says  Sid,  "I  take  three  days 
out  of  each  month  (three  days  out  of  the 
one  week  we're  not  on  the  air)  and  go 
up  to  this  place  called  Avon  Lodge  in 
Woodridge,  New  York — where  Florence 
and  I  first  met  when  I  was  entertaining 
the  summer  guests  at  the  Lodge  and  she 
was  a  counselor  at  a  near-by  girls'  camp. 
These  days  out  are  not  to  be  confused, 
by  the  way,  with  that  'one  day  off'  I 
dream  about.  These  days  have  a  purpose, 


they  are  therapeutic.  For  what  do  I  do 
up  there?  I  just  walk  about  by  myself. 
Quiet  down.  Figure  out  what  has  happened 
in  the  whirlwind  I  just  left.  Maybe  set  up 
some  empty  bottles  for  target  practice. 

"In  the  evening,  I  like  to  play  pinochle. 
I  go  into  the  town,  into  the  back  room 
of  a  little  luncheonette,  and  play  with 
three  pals  of  mine — Steve  Slater,  who  is  a 
garage  mechanic;  Ray  Rethel,  a  farmer; 
and  Bernie  Chonin,  a  gunsmith.  Our 
stakes:  We  play  25  cents  for  1200  points. 
Firehouse  pinochle — if  very  unlucky,  you 
can  lose  about  two  dollars!  After  the  game 
we  may  sit  around  a  while  and  chew  the 
fat.  Their  fat,  not  mine.  We  talk  about 
guns  and  carburetors  and  crops.  Cabbages. 
Those  tons  of  cabbages  Ray  bought,  think- 
ing there  was  going  to  be  a  shortage  and 
there  wasn't  and  Ray  was  stuck  with  tons 
a'wasting.  We'll  tell  our  wives  to  put  up 
sauerkraut,  we  told  him;  we'll  eat  cole 
slaw  three  times  a  day.  It's  good  talk, 
good  for  me.  I'm  in  three  other  worlds! 

"But  during  the  days — all  three  of  them 
— I  sit  by  myself,  or  I  walk  around  by 
myself  and  figure  what  is  happening  to  me, 
and  in  me.  I  sit  back  and  take  stock  and 
I  say,  as  Fred  Allen  put  it,  'It's  a  tread- 
mill, through  with  one  show,  start  an- 
other— '  But  for  every  working  man,  I  think 
then,  every  working  day  is  a  treadmill,  and 
some  more  uphill  than  others.  So  don't 
try  to  frustrate  yourself,  I  advise  myself, 
by  thinking,  I  could  be  doing  this,  or  that, 
and  that  the  grass  is  greener  on  the  other 
side.  It  isn't.  And  when  you  rationalize, 
you  know  that  you  must  adapt  to  what 
you  can  do  and  be,  to  what  you  are.  Like 
I  might  want  to  be  a  Shah,  but  I  can't  be 
a  Shah.  You  can  take  it  from  there.  .  .  . 

"I  think  about  the  things  I've  got  to  be 
thankful  for  and  I  know  the  most  thank- 
ful thing  I've  got  is  that  I've  got  healthy 
children.    If    there's    a    fever    of    105°,    as 


Richard  had  when  he  was  coming  down 
with  chicken  pox,  (only  we  didn't  know 
it  was  chicken  pox)  then  you  really  go 
crazy!  I  think  about  Richard  and  how 
big  he  is,  62  pounds  at  three  years  of  age, 
4  feet,  3  inches  tall,  big  and  fine.  And 
about  how  we're  bringing  up  Shelley  to 
be  an  individual.  It's  hard,  they  tell  you, 
for  the  children  of  movie,  stage  or  TV 
stars  to  be  individuals  because,  they  say, 
'They're  in  the  shadow.'  Shelley  is  not  in 
the  shadow  of  anyone,  nor  Richard.  Not 
in  mine,  they're  not.  I  cast  no  shadow. 
I'm  not  'The  Star'  at  home.  I'm  just  Daddy. 

"I  think  about  money — who  doesn't — 
and  I  think  that  money  is  as  important  as 
you  make  it.  It's  nice  stuff  to  have  around. 
I  like  to  buy  paintings  with  it,  and  guns. 
We  want  a  house  in  the  country — Florence 
is  looking  for  one  this  very  day,  in  River- 
dale,  New  York.  I  like  a  good  car,  good 
food,  good  clothes.  But  the  person  who 
wants  only  material  things  is  a  very  poor 
person,  indeed,  no  matter  how  much  money 
he's  got  in  the  bank. 

"I  think  about  Florence.  I  think  about 
her  in  relation  to  my  career  and  about 
how  she  is  my  career.  For  she  is.  She  is 
all  of  it.  Because,  if  we  have  an  argument 
and  if  I  don't  have  time  to  talk  it  out 
with  her,  it  reflects  in  my  work,  it  affects 
me  in  my  work.  It  affects  me. 

"In  a  man's  career,  as  in  a  game  of 
chess,  I  often  think,  the  queen  is  the 
most  powerful  piece  on  the  board.  In  the 
game  of  chess  the  main  job  of  the  queen 
is  to  protect  the  king.  In  life  (also  a  game) 
there  is  this  difference — the  queen  can 
either  protect  you  or  attack  you!  A  smart 
and  intelligent  queen  makes  your  life  so 
much  easier.  And  you  should  treat  her 
like  a  queen.  Main  thing  is  not  just  com- 
ing home  with  flowers  and  candy — some 
of  that,  too,  of  course — but  more  important 
to  kiss  her  when  you  say  goodbye  in  the 


morning,  but  a  real  kiss  .  .  .  only  takes 
two  seconds!  And  if  there  is  something 
unresolved  between  you,  talk  it  out — it 
can  only  help! 

"I  understand  Florence  more  than  I  used 
to.  Until  recently  I  didn't  understand 
women  (plural) — what  made  them  do 
certain  things,  say  certain  things,  what 
did  they  want,  where  were  they  going. 
It's  only  when  you  come  to  know  that  a 
woman  has  the  same  need  for  warmth  and 
affection  you  have,  that  you  can't  just 
take  the  warmth  and  love,  you  have  to 
give  it,  and  in  the  same  measure — only 
then  do  you  find  a  state  of  happiness. 

"I  have  found  a  true  state  of  happiness. 
My  three  days  of  quiet  each  month 
have  helped  me  find  it. 

"I  help  myself  in  other  ways,  too — I 
take  twenty  pills  a  day,"  (whereupon,  be- 
fore my  amazed  eyes,  Caesar  swallowed 
ten  of  the  twenty;  monsters  they  were, 
too).  "Twenty  pills  a  day,"  he  repeated. 
"Vitamin  pills — Vitamin  C,  B,  B-Complex, 
A,  Brewer's  Yeast,  and  so  on.  Why  not? 
Want  a  car  to  get  you  some  place,  got 
to  take  care  of  it.  If  a  man  has  a  store,  he 
sees  to  it  that  the  stock  is  in  good  repair, 
the  books  in  order.  He  minds  the  store. 
I  am  my  own  business  and  I've  got  to 
look  after  it.  I  mind  the  store,  too! 

"I'm  also  trying  to  disprove  the  theory 
that  youth  is  wasted  on  the  young  by 
taking  care  of  myself  now.  And  it's  pay- 
ing dividends — for,  since  the  mental  at- 
titude stems  from  the  physical  condition, 
I  not  only  feel  better,  I  think  better,  am 
more  alert,  more  alive  than  I  have  ever 
been  in  my  lifetime  (33  years  of  it) ! 

"And  happier.  I'm  happy  because  I 
have  a  wonderful  state  of  mind  now.  I'm 
happy  at  home.  That  says  it  all.  Because 
when  you're  happy  at  home,  you're  happy 
everywhere." 

Hail,   Caesar! 


NOW!  SOFT, GLOWING 
HAIR  IN  20  SECONDS! 

Condition  your  hair  this  new  non-oily  way!  New  Improved 
SUAVE — with  Helene  Curtis  greaseless  lanolin — relieves  dry- 
ness and  brittleness  instantly!  Gives  dull  hair  satiny  glow — 
makes  it  obey  the  new  soft  way ! 


Gives  hair 

healthy-looking  glow! 

suave  sparkles  hair  to  a 
healthy -looking  glow!  Adds 
highlights,  never  oily  look 
— thanks  to  greaseless  lanolin. 


Controls  hair — makes 

arranging  so  easy! 

suave  tames  wispy  ends  and 
stubborn  strands.  Perfect 
hair-dos  in  a  jiffy!  And  it 
keeps  hair  in  place  so  softly. 


Hair  dry,  dull, 

brittle,  abused? 

Helene  Curtis  suave  brings 
back  softness  and  luster  in- 
stantly, invites  hair  to  wave 
— and  protects  your  hair,  too ! 


Makes  hair  exciting  to  touch! 

suave  hairdressing  gives  you  soft,  shim- 
mering, perfectly  groomed  hair.  Don't 
wait — get  New  Improved  Helene  Curtis 
suave  today! 


HELENE  CURTIS 


uave 

HAIRDRESSING 
&    CONDITIONER 


NEW!  with  amazing  greaseless  lanolin 


59<Ud$l 


(plus  taxi 


73 


74 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Daylight  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning   Programs 


8:30 
8:45 

Local  Program 

8:55  It  Happens 
Every  Day2 

John  MacVane 
8:55  Betty  Crocker! 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 

Ftreakfast  Club 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

10:45 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peale 
Joyce  Jordan,  M.D. 
Doctor's  Wife 

Break  The  Bank 

Cecil  Brown 

Guest  Time 
News 

10:35  Johnny 
Olsen  Show 

My  True  Story 

10:25  Whispering 
Streets 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:00 

11:15 

11:30 
11:45 

Strike  It  Rich 

Phrase  That  Pays 
Second  Chance 

Florida  Calling  With 
Tom  Moore 

11:25  Holland  Engle 
Queen  For  A  Day 

Companion— 
Dr.  Mace 
Paging  The  New 

Albert  Warner,  News 
Your  Neighbor's 
Voice 

Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 
Second  Husband 

Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

Pauline  Frederick 
Reporting 

Break  The  Bank 

Valentino 

Wendy  Warren  & 
The  News 

12:15 

Capitol  Commentary  Frank  Farrell 

Rosemary 

12:30 

with  Les  Higgie 

Helen  Trent 

12:45 

12:20  Down  At 

Our  Gal  Sunday 

Holmesy's 

1:00 

News,  Cedric  Foster 

Paul  Harvey,   News 

Road  Of  Life 

1:15 

Luncheon  At  Sardi's 

Ted  Malone 

Ma  Perkins 

1:30 

Ted  Steele  Show 

Young  Dr.  Malone 

1:45 

The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 

Luncheon   With 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 

2:15 

Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 

Hayes 
Wonderful   City 

Perry  Mason 

2:30 

Betty  Crockert 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 

2:45 

2:35   Martin   Block 

The  Brighter  Day 

3:00  News 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Martin   Block   (con.) 

Hilltop  House 

3:15  3:05  Woman  In  Love 

Art  Linkletter's 

3:30  Pepper  Young 

House  Party 

3:45   Right  To  Happiness 

4:00  Backstage  Wife 

Bruce  &  Dan 

Latin  Quarter 

4:15  Stella  Dallas 

Matinee 
4:25  Betty  Crockert 

4:30  Young  Widder  Brown 

Tex  Fletcher's 

Treasury  Bandstand 

Treasury    Bandstand 

4:45 

Woman  In  My  House 

Wagon  Show 

4:55  News 

5:00 

Just  Plain  Bill 

Bobby  Benson? 
(Sgt.  Preston)1 

Musical  Express 

5:05  John  Faulk 

5:15 

Lorenzo  Jones 

Bobby  Benson 

Fred  Beck 

5:30 

Hotel  For  Pets 

Gloria  Parker 

5:45 

It  Pays  To  Be 
Married 

5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 
>T-Th  -M-F 
W— Adventures   Of 
Long  John  Silver 

Vincent  Lope2 

tT,  Th-Sheilah 
Graham 

5:55  This  1  Believe 

Monday 


Evening  Programs 


6:00 

Local  Program 

ABC  Reporter 

Jackson  &  The  News 

6:15 

Sports  Daily  with 
Mel   Allen,   Russ 

East  Of  Athens 

6:30 

Hodges 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 

6:45 

Three  Star  Extra 

George  Hicks,  News 

Lowell  Thomas 

7:00 

Alex  Dreier,  Man 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

Vandercook,    News 

Tennessee  Ernie 

7:15 

On  The  Go 

Dinner  Date 

Quincy  Howe 

7:30 

News  Of  The  World 

Gabriel  Heatter 

The  Lone  Ranger 

Choraliers 

7:45 

One    Man's    Family 

In  The  Mood 

7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 

Edward  R.  Murrow 

8:00 

Henry  J.  Taylor 

Top  Secret  Files 

Jack  Gregson  Show 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 

8:15 

Best  Of  All 

American  Music  Hall 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 

8:30 

Broadway  Cop 

Voice  Of  Firestone 

Arthur  Godfrey's 

8:45 

Talent  Scouts 

9:00 

Telephone  Hour 

News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

Music  Tent 

Perry  Como 

9:15 

History 

9:25  News 

Bing  Crosby 

9:30 

Band  Of  America 

Reporters'  Roundup 

Freedom  Sings 

Amos  V  Andy  Music 

9:45 

Hall 
9:55  News 

10:00 

Fibber  McGee  & 

Maxie  Whitney  Orch. 

News,  Edward  P. 

Music  Room 

Mnllv 

Morgan 

10:15  Great  Gildersleeve 

How  To  Fix  It 

10-.3U 

Wings  For  Tomorrow 

Distinguished  Artists 

Martha  Lou  Harp 

6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 


9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Tuesday 


NBC 

Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 

MBS  ABC 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Lux  Radio  Theater 


Lux  Theater  (con.) 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Listen  To 

Washington 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 

John  Steele, 
Adventurer 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Army  Hour 


Musical  Almanac 


Dance  Music 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Saga 

7:55  Les  Griffith 


Tennessee  Ernie 


Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 
9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 

News 
Platterbrains 

9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Take  Thirty 


CBS 
Jackson  &  The  News 

Lowell  Thomas 


Suspense 
8:25   News 
Mr.  Keen,  Tracer 
Of  Lost  Persons 


Rosemary  Clooney 
Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Orchestra 


Wednesday 


Evening    Programs 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 


6:30 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 

News 

8:35  Barrie  Craig 


You  Bet  Your  Life 

News 

9:35  Truth  Or 
Consequences 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 
9:15 


9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Keys  To  The  Capital 


Thursday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner   Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Les  Paul  &  Mary 

Ford 
7:55  Here's  Hayes 


Crime  Show 


Sentenced 


News,  Lyle  Van 
CBC  Symphony 


CBC  Symphony  (con.) 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 

7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 

President's  News 
Conference 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Dunigans  &  Friends 


Dance  Band 

Evening    Programs 


Jackson  &  The  News  |« 


Lowell  Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Hoi 

B 


FBI  In  Peace  And 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
21st  Precinct 


Perry  Como 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Roy  Rogers 
Bob  Hope  Show 


9:05  Spend  A  Million 

Where  Have  You 
Been? 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Great    Gildersleeve 
Jane  Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official  Detective 
Crime  Fighters 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Musical  Caravan 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Saga 

7:55   Les   Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Serenade  Room 

New  Music 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Front  &  Center 


Henry  Jerome  Orch 

Evening    Programs 


Orchestra 

Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


IMS 

M 

IHX 


11:15 
1:30 
IMS 


AIk 

W 
M 

Ml 
I!* 

1:0!  I 

Ms: 

1:36 : 


Tennessee  Ernie 


Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


The  Whistler 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Night  Watch 


Rosemary  Clooney 
Bing  Crosby 

Amos  V  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 
Friday  With 
Garroway 


Garroway  (con.) 


Boxing-Cavalcade 
Of  Sports 

Sports  Highlights 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Men's  Corner 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Les  Paul  &  Mary 

Ford 
7:55  Here's  Hayes 


Counter-Spy 
Take  A  Number 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 
History 


Family  Theater 

London  Studios 
Melodies 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 
Young  Composers 
9:55  Sport  Report 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Indoors  Unlimited 


Dance  Orchestra 

Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell    Thomas 


Tennessee  Ernie 

Choraliers 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Crime  Photographer 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Godfrey  Digest 


Perry  Como 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Musii 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Dance  Orchestra 


i:Ei.  •■ 


Men 

III 

MS 
1:3!  I 

M 

M  I 
i 
I:IS 

):! 
M! 

Ill 

1:1 

a ; 

Is 

M  :. 
'lIS 
III! 
Hi1 

li 

1:1! 

1* 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


MBS 


lorniug   Programs 

8:30  Local  Program 

8:45 


9:00 

9:15 

9:30  Serenade  To 

9:45      Romance 


0:00 


0:15 
-0:30 
0:45 


1:00 

1:15 
1:30 
1:45 


Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Serenade  To 

Romance 
Roadshow, 

with  Bill  Cullen 


Roadshow  (con.) 


News 


American  Travel 
Guide 


Lucky  Pierre 


Johnny  Desmond 

Show 
11:55  Young  Living 


ABC 


Doug  Browning 
Show 


CBS 


No  School 
Today 


No  School 
Today  (con.) 


11:05  Half-Pint 
Panel 

All  League  Club- 
house 


News 


News  Of  America 


Garden  Gate 


News 


10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 


10:55  News 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show 


Afternoon  Programs 


2:00 

2:15 

2:30 
-2:45 

National  Farm  And 
Home  Hour 

Pee  Wee  King  Show 

I  Asked  You 

Tex  Fletcher 
Wagon  Show 

News 

12:05  101  Ranch 

Boys 
American  Farmer 

Noon  News 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

Dude  Ranch 
Jamboree 
Roadshow  (con.) 

Fifth  Army  Band 

Symphonies  For 
Youth 

News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

Vincent  Lopez 

1:55  News 

City  Hospital 
1:25  News,  Jackson 
Stan  Daugherty 
Presents 

(2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Symphonies  (con.) 
2:25  News 
Sports  Parade 

News 

2:05  Festival,  with 
Milton  Cross 

Dance  Orchestra 

Teddy  Wilson  Orch. 
Richard  Hayes 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Roadshow   (con.) 

Country  Jamboree 

News 

3:05  Festival  (con.) 

String  Serenade 
Skinnay  Ennis  Orch. 

4:00 

4:15 
4:30 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

News 

4:05  Horse  Races 

Dance  Orchestra 

5:00 

5:15 

5:30 

5:45 

Roadshow  (con.) 

Teenagers  Unlimited 
5:55  News 

News 

Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 

Adventures  In 

Science 
Farm  News 
News,  Jackson 
5:35  Saturday  At 

The  Chase 

Evening    Programs 


6:00 

6:15 

6:30 

6:45 

News 

H.  V.  Kaltenborn 
Thy  Kingdom  Come 

John  T.  Flynn 

World  Traveler 
Report  From 

Washington 
Basil  Heatter 

6:05  Pan-American 

Union 
Sports,  Bob  Finnegan 
Bob  Edge,  Sports 

Afield 

News 

Sports  Review 
Capitol  Cloakroom 

7:00 

,7:15 

7:30 
7:45 

NBC  Travel  Bureau 
7:05  Heart  Of  The 

Stars  From  Paris 

Pop  The  Question 
Have  A  Heart 

News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Labor-Manage- 
ment Series 

News,  Jackson 
7:05  Make  Way  For 

Youth 
Gangbusters 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 

8:45 

Conversation 
Boston  Symphony 

True  Or  False 
Quaker  City  Capers 

News 

8:05  Dance  Party 

Gunsmoke 
Juke  Box  Jury 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Symphony  (con.) 
Grand  Ole  Opry 

Hawaii  Calls 
Lombardo  Land 

News 

9:05  Dance  Party 
(con.) 

Two  For  The  Money 

Country  Style 
9:55  News,  Jackson 

0:00 

0:15 
0:30 

Tex  Williams  Show 
Town  Hall  Party 

Chicago  Theater  Of 
The  Air 

News 
10:05  Ozark 

Jubilee 
Ambassador  Hotel 

Country  Style  (con.) 
Dance  Orchestra 

Sunday 


NBC 


MBS 


Morning  Programs 

8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 


9:45 


10:00 
10:15 


10:30 
10:45 


11:00 
11:15 
11:30 
11:45 


World  News  Roundup 
Carnival  Of  Books 

Faith  In  Action 

Art  Of  Living 


National  Radio 
Pulpit 

Headlines  In 
Perspective 


News 

1 1 :05  Stars  From 
Paris 

Pauline  Frederick 

At  UN 
UN  Assignment 


Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 


Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Frank  And  Ernest 

Christian  Science 

Monitor 
Northwestern 

Reviewing  Stand 


ABC 


Light  And  Life  Hour 


CBS 


Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 


News 

9:05  Milton  Cross 

Album 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


World  News  Roundup 
Sidney  Walton  Show 

Organ  Music, 

E.  Power  Biggs 
9:55  News,  Trout 


News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 


Sunday  Melodies 
11:05  Marines  On 
Review 

11:35  Christian   In 

Action 


Church  Of  The  Air 


Church  Of  The  Air 
(con.) 


Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 


Invitation  To 
Learning 


Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 

12:45 

Music  For 
Relaxation 

The  Eternal  Light 

Marine  Band 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 
Merry  Mailman 

Pan-American 
Union 

The  World  Tomorrow 

News,  LeSueur 
12:05  The  Leading 

Question 
Philadelphia 

Symphony  Orch. 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

Anthology 

Univ.  Of  Chicago 
Round  Table 

Global  Frontiers 
Christian  Science 
Lutheran  Hour 

Herald  Of  Truth 

News 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

Philadelphia 

Symphony  (con.) 
News 
1:35  Washington 

Week 
World  Affairs 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Youth  Wants  To 
Know 

Music  From  Britain 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 

Symphonette 

New  York  Philhar- 
monic-Symphony 

3:00 

3:15 
3:30 

3:45 

Weekend 

Music  From  Britain 

(con.) 
Bandstand,  U.S.A 

Basil  Heatter 

News 

3:05  Air  Force  Show 

Hour  Of  Decision 

New  York  Philhar- 
monic-Symphony 
(con.) 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Weekend  (con.) 

Salute  To  The  Nation 

Nick  Carter 

4:55  Lome  Greene 

Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 

News,  LeSueur 
4:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Conversation 

Adventures  Of  Rin 

Tin  Tin 
True  Detective 

Mysteries 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

News 

5:05  World  Church 
Greatest  Story 
Ever  Told 

News 

5:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon  (con.) 
5:55  News,  Trout 

Evening   Programs 

6:00 

6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

7:00 


7:15 
7:30 


7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 


American  Forum 
Nothing  But  Music 


Biographies  In 
Sound 


7:55  NBC  Travel 
Bureau 


Dr.  Six  Gun 


Adventures  Of  The 
Abbots 


Sherlock  Holmes 
Easy  Money 


Fibber  McGee  And 

Molly 
Great    Gildersleeve 
Meet  The  Press 


Public  Prosecutor- 
Jay  Jostyn 

On  The  Line,  Bob 
Considine 

All  Star  Sport  Time 


Richard  Hayes  Show 


Studio  Concert 


News 

7:05  Showtime 

Revue 
George  Sokolsky 
News 

7:35  Valentino 
Travel  Talk 


West  Point  Band 
Enchanted  Hour 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr 
Success  Story 
Manion  Forum 
Keep  Healthy 


Billy  Graham 
Little  Symphonies 


Monday  Morning 

Headlines 
Paul  Harvey,  News 
Evening  Comes 


American  Town 
Meeting 


Walter  Winchell 
News,  Quincy  Howe 
Sammy  Kaye 
9:55  News 


Paul  Harvey,  News 

Elmer  Davis 
Revival  Time 


Gene  Autry 
Sunday  Playhouse 


Jack  Benny 
Amos  'n'  Andy 


Our  Miss  Brooks 
My  Little  Margie 

Rudy  Vallee  Show 


News,  Schorr 
10:05  Face  The  Na- 
tion 
John  Derr,  Sports 


See   Next  Page- 


75 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Daylight  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


Morning   Programs 


8:30 
6:45 

Local  Program 

8:55  It  Happens 
Every  Day-' 

John  MacVane 
8:55  Betty  Crockeri 

9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Robert  Hurlelgh 
Easy  Does  It 

nreakfasl  Club 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

10:4S 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peale 
Joyce  Jordan,  M.D. 
Doctor's  Wife 

Break  The  Bank 

Cecil  Brown 

Guest  Time 
News 

10:35  Johnny 
Olsen  Show 

My  True  Story 

10:25  Whispering 
Streets 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:0[> 
11:15 
11:30 

11:45 

Strike  It  Rich 

Phrase  That  Pays 
Second  Chance 

Florida  Calling  With 
Tom  Moore 

11:25  Holland  Engle 
Queen  For  A  Day 

Companion— 
Dr.  Mace 
Paging  The  New 

Albert  Warner,  News 
your  Neighbor's 
Voice 

Arthur  Godfrey 
{con.} 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 
Second  Husband 

Aflornoon     Programs 


12:15 
12:30 
12:45 


|Break  The  Bank         Valentino 

Capitol  Commentary  Frank  Farrell 

with  Les  Higgle 
12:20  Oown  At 

Holmesy's 


News,  Cedric  Foster  Paul  Harvey,  News 
Luncheon  At  Sardi's  Ted  Malone 
ITed  Steele  Show      ' 


Road  Of  Life 
Ma  Perkins 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 


News 

3:05  Woman  In  Love 
Pepper  Young 
Right  To  Happin 


Just  Plain  Bill 

Lorenzo  tones 

Hotel  For  Pets 

It  Pays  To  Be 

Married 


Luncheon  With 

Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam       J 

Hayes 
Wonderful   City  Betty  Crocker] 

2:35   Martin  Slock 


Ruby  Mercer  Show     Martin   Block   (con.) 


latin  Quarter 

Matinee 
4:25  Betty  Crockert 
Treasury  Bandstand 


Sports   Daily   with 

Mel  Allen,  Russ 
Hodges 
Three  Star  Extra 


Bobby  Benson-'  Musical  Express 

(Sgt.  Preston)' 
Bobby  Benson  Fred  Beck 

Gloria  Parker 
5:50  Wlsmer,  Sports  Vincent  Lopez 

v.  Cecil  Brown 
'T-Th  vm-F  TT,  Th-Sheilab 

W-Adventures    Of        Graham 

Long  John  Silver  i 


Evening   Programs 

Local  Program  |  ABC  Reporter 


Wendy  Warren  ft 

The  News 
Rosemary 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 


Hilltop  House 
Art  Linkletter's 
House  Party 


5:55  This  I  Believe 


Alex  Dreler,  Man 

On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One   Man's   Family 


Telephone  Hour 
Band  Of  America 


Fibber  McGea  i 

Mnllv 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Wings  For  Tomorrov 


BIN  stern.  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatte> 

In  The  Mood 


Vandercook,    News 
Quincy  Howe 
The  Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith. 
News 


Top  Secret  Files        Jack  Gregson  Show 

-American  Music  Hall 
Broadway  Cop  Voice  Of  Firestom 


News.  Lyle  Van  Music  Tent 

9:05  Footnotes  to      i 

History  9:25  News 

Reporters' Roundup    Freedom  Sings 


Maxie  Whitney  Orch.  News,  Edward  P. 
Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Distinguished  Artists  Martha  lou  Harp 


Mr.  &  Mrs.  North 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 

Arthur  Godfrey's 

Talent  Scouts 


Evening    Programs 

MBS  ABC 


Sports  Dally 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreler, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Lux  Radio  Theater 


Lux  Theater  (con.) 


Fibber  McGes  ft 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Listen  To 

Washington 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9.05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Army  Hour 


Musical  Almanac 


Vandercook,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Saga 

7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 
9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 

News 
Platterbrains 


News,  Edward  p. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Take  Thirty 


CBS 
,art"»  *  Tbu 


Niojiijj 


m>Jii\.\v.-\\m 


Sports  Dally 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


You  Bet  Your  Life 

News 

9:35  Truth  Or 
Consequences 


Fibber  McGee  ft 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Keys  To  The  Capital 


Evening    Programs 

ABC  Reporter 


Fulton   Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner   Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Les  Paul  &  Mary 

Ford 
7:55  Here's  Hayes 


Crime  Show 
Sentenced 


CBC  Symphony  (con.) 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 

7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
__jw  To  Fix  It 
Dunigans  &  Friends 


Evening    Programs 


FBI  In  Peace  hi 
War 


Perry  Como 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Hoik 


Sports  Dally 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Roy  Rogers 
Bob  Hope  Show 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Great    Gildersleeve 
lane  Pickens  Show 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Vandercook,  News 

Quincy   Howe 

Saga 

7:55   Les    Griffith 


Official  Detective 
Crime  Fighters 


News,  lyle  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Musical  Caravan 


Jack   Gregson   Show 


Serenade  Room 

New  Music 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 

How  To  Fix  It 

Front  &  Center 


Henry  Jerome  Orch. 

Evening    Programs 


The  Whistler 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Night  Watch 


I 


nside  Radio 


Morning  Programs 


Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Serenade  To 

Romance 
Roadshow, 

with  Bill  Cullen 


Roadshow  (con.) 


Johnny  Desmond 

Show 
11:55  Young  Living 


News  Of  America 
Garden  Gate 


Afternoon  Programs 


12-30  Pee  Wee  King  Show 


2:00  Roadshow  (con,) 


Amos  'n'  Andy  Miifc 

(fall 
9:55  News 

Dance  Orchestra 


Sports  Dally 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreler, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 

Frank  Sinatra 

Friday  With 

Garroway 


Fulton   Lewis,  Jr. 
Men's  Corner 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Les  Paul  &  Mary 

Ford 
7:55  Here's  Hayes 


Counter-Spy 
Take  A  Number 


News,  Lyle  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  t> 
History 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7;55  Les  Griffith 


lack  Gregson  Show 


Sammy  Kaye 
Young  Composers 
9:55  Sport  Report 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Indoors  Unlimited 


!ackson  t  The  Hm 
Lowell    Thomas 


Perry  Como 
Bing  Crosby 

Amos 'n' Andy  Ml«| 


Dance  Orchestra 


Dude  Ranch 
Jamboree 
Roadshow  (con.) 


3:00  Roadshow   (con.) 


5:00  Roadshow  (can.) 


Symphonies  (can.) 
2:25  News 
Sports  Parade 


Country  Jamboree 


Bandstand,  U.S.A. 


Teenagers  Unlimited 


11:05  Half-Pint 
Panel 

All  League  Club- 
house 


News 

12:05  101  Ranch 

Boys 
American  Farmer 


News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

Vincent  Lopez 


City  Hospital 
1:25  News,  Jackson 
Stan  Oaugherty 
Presents 


News 
05  Festival,  with 
Milton  cross 


String  Serenade 
Sklnnay  Ennls  Orch. 


Dance  Orchestra 


Adventures  In 

Science 
Farm  News 
News,  Jackson 
5:35  Saturday  At 

The  Chase 


Evening   Programs 


NBC  Travel  Bureau 
7:05  Heart  Of  The 

Hews 
Stars  From  Paris 


Conversation 
Boston  Symphony 


Symphony  (con.) 
Grand  Ole  Opry 


i°0  Tex  Williams  Shaw 
[IIS 
,0-30  Town  Hall  Party 


Pop  The  Question 
Have  A  Heart 


True  Or  False 
Quaker  City  Capers 


Hawaii  Calls 
Lombardo  Land 


6:05  Pan-American 

Union 
Sports,  Bob  Finnegan 
Bob  Edge,  Sports 

Afield 


News 

9:05  Dance  Party 
(con.) 


News 
10:05  Ozark 

Jubilee 
Ambassador  Hotel 


News,  Jackson 
7:05  Make  Way  For 

Youth 
Gangbusters 


Gunsmoke 
Juke  BOX  Jury 


Two  For  The  Money 


Country  Style  (con.) 
Dance  Orchestra 


MBS 


Morning  Programs 


9:00  World  News  Roundup 
9:15  Carnival  Of  Books 

9:30!faith  In  Action 

9:45  Art  Of  Living 


Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  Gad 


Pauline  Frederick 

At  UN 
UN  Assignment 


News 

9:05  Milton  Cross 

Album 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Frank  And  Ernest 

Christian  Science 

Monitor 
Northwestern 

Reviewing  Stand 


Light  And  Life  Hour  F 


News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 


Church  or  The  Air 


Afternoon  Programs 


Tha  Catholic  Hour    Music  From  Britain 


News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 
Merry  Mailman 


Global  Frontiers 
Christian  Science 
Lutheran  Hour 


Herald  Of  Truth 


Music  From  Britain 

(con.) 
Bandstand,  U.S.A 


Sunday  Melodies 
":05  Marines  On 
Review 

News 

11:35  Christian  In 
Action 


The  World  Tomorrow 


Organ  Music, 

E.  Power  Biggs 
9:55  News,  Trout 


Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 


Salute  To  The  Nation 


Adventures  Of  Rin 

Tin  Tin 
True  Detective 

Mysteries 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 


Hour  Of  Decision 


Evening   Programs 


American  Forum 


Nothing  But  Music 


Sherlock  Holmes 
Easy  Money 


Fibber  McGee  And 

Molly 
Great    Gildersleeve 
Meet  The  Press 


Public  Prosecutor- 
Jay  Jo sty n 

On  The  Line,  Bob 
Consldine 

All  Star  Sport  Time 


Richard  Hayes  Show 
Studio  Concert 


News 

7:05  Showtimo 

Revue 
George  Sokolsky 
News 

7:35  Valentino 
Travel  Talk 


West  Point  Band 
Enchanted  Hour 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr 
Success  Story 
Manion  Forum 
Keep  Healthy 


Billy  Graham 
Little  Symphonies 


News 

5:05  World  Church 
Greatest  Story 
Ever  Told 


Monday  Morning 

Headlines 
Paul  Harvey.  News 
Evening  Comes 


Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 


News,  leSueur 
12:05  The  Leading 

Question 
Philadelphia 

Symphony  Orch. 


Philadelphia 

„  Symphony  (con.) 

News 

1:35  Washington 

Week 
World  Affairs 


Symphonetto 


New  York  Philhar- 
monic-Symphony 
(con.) 


News,  LeSueur 
4:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 


Walter  Winchell 
News,  Quincy  Howe 
Sammy  Kaye 
9:55  News 


Paul  Harvey,  News 


News 

5:05  on  A  Sunday 

Afternoon  (con.) 

5:55  News,  Trout 


Gene  Autry 
Sunday   Playhouse 


lack  Benny 
Amos  'n'  Andy 


Our  Miss  Brooks 
My  Little  Margls 


Rudy  Vallee  Show 


See    next 


John  Derr,  Sports 

Page — *- 


TV  program  highlights 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  MAY  8— JUNE  7 


Baseball  on  TV 


D — Doubleheader 


TIME        CH. 


MAY 

8,  Sun. 

10,  Tu. 

11,  W. 

13,  F. 

14,  Sat. 

15,  Sun. 

17,  Tu. 

18,  W. 

20,  F. 

21,  Sat. 

22,  Sun. 

24,  Tu. 

25,  W. 

26,  Th. 

27,  F. 

28,  Sat. 


2:00 
8:15 
2:00 
2:00 
2:00 
2:55 
2:00 
8:15 
2:00 
8:00 
8:15 
1:55 
2:00 
2:00 
2:00 
8:15 
2:00 
2:00 
8:00 
2:00 


11 
11 
11 
11 
11  &  8 

2 

11&8 
11 
11 

9 
11 

2,9,8 
11  &  8 

9 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 

2&11 


Pgh.  vs.  Giants 
Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 
Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 
Det.  vs.  Yanks 
Det.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Cine. 
Kan.  C.  vs.  Yanks — D 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
Phila.  vs.  Dodgers 
Bait.  vs.  Yanks 
Phila.  vs.  Dodgers 
Bait.  vs.  Yanks— D 
Phila.  vs.  Dodgers 
Bait.   vs.  Yanks — D 
Wash.  vs.  Yanks 
Wash.  vs.  Yanks 
Wash.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Giants 
Bait.  vs.  Yanks 


DATE 

29,  Sun. 

30,  M. 

31,  Tu. 


JUNE 

1,W. 
2,Th. 
3,F. 

4,  Sat. 

5,  Sun. 

6,M. 

7,Tu. 


TIME 

2:00 
1:30 
1:30 
8:00 
8:00 


1:30 
8:00 
1:30 
1:30 
8:00 
8:00 
2:00 
2:00 
2:25 
2:00 
2:00 
8:00 
1:30 
8:00 


CH. 
11 

9 

11 

9 
11 


11 

9 

9 
11 

9 
11 

9&! 
11 

2 

9&! 
11 

9 

9 
11 


CAME 

Dodgers  vs.  Giants 
Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers — D 
Phila.  vs.  Giants — D 
Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 
Phila.  vs.  Giants 


Cine.  vs.  Giants 
Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 
Cine.  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 
Chi.  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 
Chi.  vs.  Giants 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers — D 
Chi.  vs.  Giants — D 
St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 
Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 


Monday  through  Friday 


7:00  0  Morning   Show— Everything's   Jack 

O  &  00  Today — Getaway  with  Garroway 

8:55  O  Herb   Sheldon— Talk    and   cooking 

10:00  0  Garry  Moore  Show— Moore  fun  for  all 

O  &  3  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nursery 

10:30  ©  Arthur  Godfrey  Time— Time  to  relax 

O  &  [§]  Way  Of  The  World-Drama 
11:00  O  Home — Arlene   Francis,   homemaker 
0  Romper   Room— More  TV   nursery 
1 1:30  0  &  fH  Strike  It  Rich— Hull-hearted  quiz 
12:00  ©  Valiant   Lady— Flora   Campbell    stars 

0  &  00  Tennessee   Ernie— Folk  fun 
12:15  0  &  00  Love  Of  Life— Daytime  drama 
12:30  0  &  00  Search   For  Tomorrow— Serial 
O  Feather  Your  Nest— Bud  Collyer 
©   Entertainment— 2'/2   hours  of  variety 
12:45  0  (&  00  at  2:30)  The  Guiding  Light 
1:00  0  Inner  Flame— Portia  faces  life 

0  Claire  Mann— For  health  &  beauty 

1:15   0  Road  Of  Life— Don  MacLaughlin  stars 

1:30  0  &  [j]  Welcome  Travelers— From  Chi. 

©  Food  For  Thought— Virginia  Graham 

2:00  0  &  fU  Robert   Q.   Lewis   Show— Qute 

2:30  0  Linkletter's  House  Party— Welcome! 

O  Jinx  Falkenburg— Mrs.  McCrary  calls 

3:00  0  &  00  The  Big  Payoff— Fanciful  prizes 

©  Ted  Mack's  Matinee— A  real  nice  guy 

3:30  0  Bob  Crosby  Show— Variety  with  verve 

©   &    H  The   Greatest   Gift— Anne   Burr 

4:00  0  The  Brighter  Day— Drama 

©  &  [si  Hawkins     Falls— Serial 
4:15   0  &  00  Secret  Storm— Serial 

©  First  Love— Pat  Barry  in  lead 
4:30  0   &  00  On  Your  Account— Cash  quiz 
©  World    Of    Mr.   Sweeney— Chuckles 
EARLY  EVENING 
7:00  0  Kukla,  Fran  &  Ollie— Puppetry 
7:15  0  John  Daly  Comments— News 
7:30  ©  &  00  Songs— Tony  Martin, Mon.;  Dinah 
Shore,  Tues.,  Thurs.;  Eddie  Fisher,  Wed.,  Fri. 
O  Million  Dollar  Movies— May  8  &  9, 
"Johnny    Come    Lately";    May    10-16,    "Con- 
fidence Girl";  May   17-23,  "The  Scarf";  May 
24-30,   "Park   Row";   May  31 -June   6,   "Cap- 
tive  City";   June  7-13,  "So  Young,   So   Bad." 
7:45   0  Songs— Como,    Mon.,    Wed.,    Fri.;    Jo 
Stafford,  Tues.;  Jane   Froman,  Thurs. 
T  LATE   NIGHT 

'      10:00  O  Million  Dollar  Movies— Same  sched- 
"  ule  as  above 

11:00  0  News  &  Sports 

(D  Liberace— Concerts    by    candleliqht 

76 


11:15  ©  Tonight— Steve  Allen's  allotment 
12:45  0  The  Late,  Late  Show— A.M.  cinema 


Monday  P.M. 


7:30  0  Life  With  Elizabeth-Betty  White 

0  Name's  The  Same— Bob  &  Ray  riot 
8:00  0  Burns  &  Allen— Coupled  comedy 

©  &  [U  Caesar's  Hour— Sid  with  Nanette 
Fabray;  May  30,  Producer's  Showcase 
0  TV   Digest— Articles  dramatized 
8:30  0  Talent  Scouts— Godfrey's  spotlight 

0  Voice  Of  Firestone— Long-hair  recital 
9:00  0  &  [Zl  I    Love   Lucy— Desi's   dizzy   Ball 

©  The  Medic — Taut  tales  about  docs 
9:30  0  &  QD  December  Bride— Springy  stuff 
©  Robert  Montgomery  Presents 
10:00  0  &  [U  Studio   One— Fine   hour  dramas 
10:30  ©  Big   Town— Mark  Stevens  as  Steve 


Tuesday 


8:00  0  Life  With  Father— Family  comedy 

©&  00  Milton    Berle— May    10    &    24; 
Martha  Raye,  May  17;  Bob  Hope,  May  31. 
0  Life  Is  Worth  Living— Bishop  Sheen 
8:30  0  Halls  Of  Ivy— The  Ronald  Colmans 
0  20  Questions — Vegetable, animal, etc. 
9:00  0  MeetMillie— Dazzling, dizzlingblonde 
©  Fireside  Theater — Filmed  stories 
0  Make  Room  For  Daddy— Pop  Thomas 
9:30  0  &00  Red  Skelton  Show— Howlarious 
©  Circle  Theater— Live  dramas 
0  U.S.  Steel  Theater— Elgin  Theater 
Two  excellent  full-hour,  live  theaters. 
10:00  0  Danger— Spine-chilling  tales.  On  June 
7,    premiere:    $64,000    Question— Colossal 
cash  quiz  show. 

©  &  [n]  Truth  Or  Consequences 
10:30  0  See  It  Now— Murrow's  video  news  mag 
©  It's  A  Great  Life— It's  lively  comedy 
0  Stop  The  Music— Harmonious  $ound$ 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  Disneyland— Fascinating  always 
8:00  0  &  |  « |  Godfrey  &   Friends— Variety 
8:30  ©  (&  |  * !  at  9:30)  My   Little  Margie 

0  Mr.  Citizen— Stories  of  heroism 
9:00  0  &  !  :■;    The  Millionaire— Stories 

©  Kraft  Theater— Fine,   live  teleplays 

0  Masquerade  Party— Costume  quiz 
9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret— Moore's  panel  quiz 

O  Who   Said    That?— John    Daly   knows 
10:00  0  &        Blue   Ribbon  Boxing— May  25 


this  program  switches  to  ABC-TV,  Ch.  7 
©  This  Is  Your  Life— Edwards'  essay 
10:30  ©  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 

O  Eddie  Cantor  Show— Filmed  variety 


Thursday 


7:00  ©  Guy  Lombardo-High  calorie  music 
7:30  ©  Finders  Keepers-Robbins'  nest  egg 
8:00  0  Meet   Mr.    McNulty-Merry   Milland 

©  &  00  You  Bet  Your  Life-Groucho 
8:30  0  Climax!— Hour    suspense    drama    ex- 
cept  May    12,   Shower   Of  Stars-musical 

0  Justice— Tales  of  those  falsely  accused 
9:00  ©  &  00  Dragnet-Jack    Webb    at   work 

O  Star  Tonight— Original  plays 
9:30  0  Four  Star  Playhouse-TV  tales  filmed 

©  &  00  Ford  Theater-Filmed  stories 

0  Pond's  Theater— Hour-long  teleplays 
10:00  0  Public  Defender-Reed  Hadley  stars 

©  &  [J]  Lux  Video  Theater— Dramas 
10:30  0  Willy-Comedy  Havoc  with  June 

©  Racket   Squad— Reed    Hadley   again 


Friday 


7:30  ©  Life  With  Elizabeth-So  cute 

8:00  0  &  rj]  Mama-Ingratiating 

©  Secret  Files,   U.S.A.— Adventures 
O  Ozzie  &  Harriet— Always  fun 

8:30  0  Topper— Hocus-pocus  comedy 

©  &  (U  Life  Of  Riley— Bill  Bendix 
0  Ray  Bolger  Show— Gay  &  giddy 

9:00  0  Playhouse  Of  Stars— Filmed  dramas 
©  &  00  Big  Story— Newsmen  in  action 
©  Mr.  &  Mrs.  North-Whodunits 

9:30  0  Our  Miss  Brooks— Eve  Ardently  yours 
©  &  00  Dear  Phoebe— Peter  Lawford 
O  The    Vise— Hair-raisers   from    England 
10:00  0  The  Line-Up— City  detectives  at  work 

©  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
10:30  0  Person  To  Person— At-home  interviews 
©  Mr.  District  Attorney— Drama 


Saturday 


7:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Bud  Collyer,  prizes 
©  Show   Wagon— Heidt's   talent  salute 
8:00  0  Jackie  Gleason— Gleeful  comedy 

©  &  00  Mickey  Rooney— Comedy  series 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— Quiz,  Shriner 
©  &  00  Imogene  Coca— Guaranteed  de- 
lightful. June  4,  Max  Liebman   Presents 
0  Ozark  Jubilee— Variety,  country-style 
9:30  0  My  Favorite  Husband— Lotsa  laughs 
©  &  00  Durante— O'Connor    Shows 
Donald, May  14&28;  Jimmy,May21  &  Junel  1 
10:00  ©  &  1*1  George  Gobel— Prince  of  clowns 
10:30  0  Damon   Runyon  Theater— Stories 

©  &  00  Your  Hit  Parade— Musical  skits 


Sunday 


6:00  0  I  Love  Lucy— Repeat  of   1951    Shows 
7:00  ©  &  00  People  Are  Funny— Funny! 

O  You  Asked  For  It— You  get  it 
7:30  0  &  00  Jack  Benny,  May  8  &  22.  Other 
Sundays,  Ann  Sothern's  Private  Secretary. 
©  Mr.  Peepers— Wally  Cox  comedy  ex- 
cept May  22,  Max  Liebman  Presents 
8:00  0  &  00  Toast  Of  The  Town— Variety 

©  Comedy  Hour— GordonMacRae,emcee 
9:00  0  G-E    Theater— Ronald    Reagan,    host 
©  &  00  TV    Playhouse— Full-hour    plays 
9:30  0  Stage    7— Hollywood    stars    in    drama 
©  Life  Begins  At  Eighty— Panel  show 
10:00  0  Appointment     With     Adventure- 
Drama 

©  &  00  Loretta    Young    Show— Stories 
0  Break  The  Bank— Bert  Parks,  quiz 
10:30  0  &  00  What's    My    Line?— Job    game 
©  Bob  Cummings  Show— Comedy 


(Continued  from  page  51) 
around  ten,  when  the  maid  arrived  for 
the  day.  .  .  .  She  was  still  half  asleep  when 
the  sound  came  in  on  the  set,  the  com- 
mercials were  over  and  her  husband  ap- 
peared on  the  screen — her  husband,  Rich- 
ard Coogan — smooching  with  his  beauti- 
ful young  screen  bride,  Vanessa. 

"Oh,  no,"  Gay  murmured,  jumping  out 
of  bed.  "Not  that!"  And,  with  a  sharp 
twist  of  her  hand,  off  went  the  set. 

Gay  Coogan  insists  her  reaction  had 
nothing  whatever  to  do  with  jealousy.  Six 
years  before,  when  she  was  expecting  her 
first  child,  Ricky,  she'd  looked  on  without 
flinching  while  Dick  nightly  held  an  em- 
brace with  Mae  West  through  six  suc- 
cessive curtain  calls,  during  the  run  of 
"Diamond  Lil."  She'd  seen  him  make  love 
to  a  number  of  glamorous  actresses  on 
screen  or  stage  without  paying  the  slightest 
attention  to  it.  But,  as  she  explains  it,  she, 
too,  had  finally  reached  a  point  where  she 
was  temporarily  getting  mixed  up  among 
the  multiple  lives  of  her  husband. 

She'd  long  observed  the  public's  tend- 
ency to  confuse  reality  with  make-be- 
lieve, where  her  husband  was  concerned, 
though  she'd  always  considered  herself 
immune  from  it.  She'd  been  vastly  amused 
at  the  uproar  Rick,  Jr.,  had  caused  in  a 
movie  theater  where  they'd  taken  him  to 
see  his  father  in  "Three  Hours  to  Kill," 
with  Dana  Andrews.  Rick  didn't  like  it.  at 
all,  when  he  saw  his  father  get  a  beating 
in  a  highly  realistic  fight  scene  toward 
the  end  of  the  picture.  "That  man  is  going 
to  kill  you,  Daddy,"  he  protested  loudly. 
Dick  tried  to  reassure  him,  pointing  out 
that  he  was,  after  all,  sitting  right  next  to 
him,  but  it  didn't  help.  "Watch  out!  He's 


Born  To  Be  a  Husband 

going  to  kill  you,  Daddy — he'll  kill  you," 
Rick  wailed,  sending  the  audience  into 
hysterics  during  the  film's  most  exciting 
moment. 

At  another  time,  Dick's  eight-year-old 
niece,  Sandy — who,  along  with  his  twenty- 
two  other  nieces  and  nephews,  is  a  loyal 
and  devoted  follower  of  Love  Of  Life — 
was  quite  shocked  upon  learning  that  Van 
was  expecting  a  baby.  "Oh,  dear,"  she 
piped  up,  "does  Aunt  Gay  know  about 
this?" 

Even  on  the  radio,  when  Dick  played 
Abie  Levy  in  Abie's  Irish  Rose,  neighbors 
used  to  stop  him  all  the  time,  advising  him 
in  all  seriousness  whether  or  not  to  move 
to  the  country  and  buy  Rosie  her  house 
with    the    "pickle"    fence. 

Later,  when  he  was  television's  Cap- 
tain Video,  small  fry  and  grownups  alike 
used  to  greet  Dick  as  "Captain."  "I  gave 
up  the  part  in  the  nick  of  time,"  he  says. 
"Imagine  any  kid  having  Captain  Video 
for  a  father!  It  would  have  been  kind  of 
tough,  being  a  hero  twenty-four  hours  a 
day.  And  I  would  have  hated  having  to 
disillusion  Rick." 

But,  when  it  comes  to  being  identified 
by  the  public  with  a  specific  role,  Dick 
has  reached  his  peak  as  Paul  Raven  in 
Love  Of  Life.  It  is  hard  to  believe  that 
this  should  happen  in  a  presumably  hard- 
boiled  and  sophisticated  city  like  New 
York,  but  rarely  a  day  goes  by  that  Dick 
isn't  given  advice  of  some  sort  by  some 
well-meaning  stranger.  Not  long  ago,  as 
he  was  leaving  a  Fifth  Avenue  bus,  he  was 
confronted  by  a  middle-aged,  well-dressed 
lady.  "Now  look  here,  Paul  Raven,"  the 
lady  said  kindly.  "You  listen  to  me  and 
come  clean  with  Van.  It's  never  any  good 


trying  to  hide  secrets  from  your  wife.  Es- 
pecially not  with  that  sister-in-law  of 
yours." 

As  is  well  known  to  several  million  fol- 
lowers of  Love  Of  Life,  Paul  Raven  is 
burdened  by  the  memory  of  an  unhappy 
marriage  in  his  past.  To  add  to  the  con- 
fusion, Deputy  Sheriff  File— whom  Dick 
Coogan  portrayed  recently  on  Broadway 
in  "The  Rainmaker" — had  a  similarly  un- 
pleasant secret  in  his  past:  A  wife  who 
ran  away  with  a  traveling  salesman.  How- 
ever, unlike  either  of  these  harassed  men, 
Dick  in  real  life  is  happily  married  to  his 
first  and  only  wife — the  girl  he  met,  as  a 
very  young  man,  among  the  cast  of  the 
production  that  gave  him  his  first  walk-on 
part  as   a  professional  actor. 

Dick  Coogan  and  Gay  Adams  both  made 
their  stage  debuts  as  members  of  the  cast 
of  the  late  Leslie  Howard's  notable  1936 
production  of  "Hamlet,"  Dick  carrying  a 
spear  and  understudying  the  role  of  For- 
tinbras,  and  Gay  as  a  lady-in-waiting. 
They  did  not,  it  may  be  noted,  fall  in  love 
at  first  sight. 

"Gay  had  a  couple  of  very  cute  wire- 
haired  fox  terriers  that  followed  her 
around  at  rehearsals,"  Dick  recalls.  "Each 
time  I  came  around  trying  to  pat  one  of 
them,  wanting  to  be  friendly,  she'd  take 
off,  taking  them  for  a  walk  or  something. 
I  love  dogs,  but  I  began  to  despise  those 
two  interfering  mutts." 

Gay  claims  today  that  this  was  strictly 
accidental,  but  admits  she  thought  Dick 
was  too  good-looking  for  comfort.  Tall, 
slender,  long-limbed  and  striking-looking, 
Gay  Adams  had  already  made  something 
of  a  reputation  for  herself  as  one  of  the 
first  of  a  crop  of  talented  society  singers 


%€#/  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  problem 


Tested  by  doctors...  proved  in  hospital  clinics 


NORFORRIS 


VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested   by   doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


7.  AntlSeptlC   (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves; 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 


Mail  this  coupon  today 


CH    PROOUCT 


FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 

lust  mail  this  coupon  in    Dept.    R  ["-56 
Norwich  Pharmacal  Company,  Norwich,  N.  Y: 

Please  send   me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 
plain  envelope. 


Name. 
Street. 
City_ 


_Zone_ 


_St.Ur_ 


77 


who  were  quite  the  rage  at  the  time.  But 
she  was  still  quite  young — as  was  Dick — 
and  not  entirely  sure  of  herself.  The  dead- 
lock between  them  was  finally  broken  by 
what  could  have  been  a  serious  accident. 

Leslie  Howard  was  notoriously  near- 
sighted and  was  almost  struck  by  a  cab, 
one  evening,  in  front  of  the  theater.  Dick 
pushed  him  out  of  the  way  but  was 
knocked  down  himself.  As  a  result,  Gay 
started  coming  around  to  inquire  how  Dick 
was  coming  along.  Dick  recovered,  mar- 
ried Gay,  and  the  two  have  been  devoted 
to  each  other  ever  since.  Needless  to  say, 
they  don't  regret  the  accident  that  brought 
them  together!  They  have  one  son,  Rich- 
ard, Jr.,  now  five  and  a  half,  a  mighty 
handsome  lad  who  is  the  light  of  their 
lives. 

Gay  has  since  given  up  her  own  career 
but  shares  her  husband's  intense  interest 
in  his  work.  She  cues  him,  helps  him  re- 
hearse his  scripts,  and  never  tires  of  dis- 
cussing his  professional  problems  with 
him.  Dick  has  implicit  confidence  in  her 
judgment.  "Gay  is  probably  my  severest 
critic,"  he  says.  "She'll  never  hesitate  to 
tell  me  I'm  miserable.  She  does,  frequently. 
But  when  she  tells  me  I'm  good — then  I 
relax." 

Aside  from  the  interest  they  share  in 
Dick's  work  and  in  their  child,  they  think 
alike  in  other  respects  as  well.  Like  his 
wife,  Dick  Coogan  comes  from  an  old  and 
honorable  family.  One  of  his  forebears 
owned  and  gave  his  name  to  the  piece  of 
land  still  known  as  Coogan's  Bluff,  up 
where  the  Giants  play  their  home  games. 
Dick,  however,  was  born  and  grew  up  in 
Madison,  New  Jersey,  being  one  of  ten 
children,  six  boys  and  four  girls.  All  of 
them  were  highly  energetic  and  sports - 
minded,  and  Dick  claims  that,  until  a  few 
years  ago,  his  mother  could  beat  any  of 
them  at  tennis. 

Dick  also  was — and  is — a  crack  athlete 
who  spent  most  of  his  younger  years  in 
the  pursuit  of  sports.  Possessing  strength, 
stamina,  and  a  high  degree  of  natural  co- 
ordination, Dick  tried  everything  in  sports 
and  was  good  at  everything  he  tried.  His 
passion  for  sports  very  nearly  cost  him  his 
life,  however,  and  indirectly  led  him  to 
seek  a  career  as  an  actor. 

As  a  child,  he  once  suffered  a  mild  at- 
tack of  rheumatic  fever.  Thinking  he'd 
outgrown  it,  he  didn't  pay  much  further 
attention  to  it,  for  knowledge  of  the  dis- 
ease wasn't  as  far  advanced  then  as  it  is 
today.   Whenever  there  was  snow  on  the 


ground,  he'd  spend  all  afternoon  out-of- 
doors,  doing  his  own  special,  daredevil 
brand  of  skiing  and  ski  jumping.  With  his 
pals  and  his  brothers,  he  had  staked  out 
a  ski  run  which  led  from  the  top  of  a  near- 
by hill  through  the  town,  winding  up  at 
a  roof  top  from  which  they  then  jumped, 
skipping  across  a  couple  of  driveways. 
Frequent  spills  were,  of  course,  inevitable. 
After  one  such  afternoon,  while  sitting 
around  in  wet  clothes  at  the  house  of  a 
friend,  Dick  caught  a  severe  throat  in- 
fection which,  in  turn,  led  to  a  renewed 
attack  of  rheumatic  fever.  The  second  at- 
tack, doctors  now  know,  is  the  one  that's 
dangerous.  Dick  was  ill  for  a  long  time, 
and,  when  he  recovered  at  last,  his  heart 
had  suffered  serious  damage.  He  was  told 
he'd  have  to  give  up  all  further  athletics, 
perhaps  forever. 

Dick  was  in  high  school  at  the  time  and 
had  been  one  of  Madison  High's  star  ath- 
letes. Giving  that  up  was  a  terrible  blow 
to  him.  His  parents  and  his  teachers  knew 
that  the  only  way  they  could  keep  Dick 
away  from  the  gym,  track  and  tennis 
court  was  to  give  him  another  interest. 
Miss  Hutchins,  the  school's  drama  coach, 
had  a  hunch  that  dramatics  might  be  the 
answer.  She  thought  the  tall,  good-looking 
lad  would  like  it  and  would  be  good  at  it. 
Given  the  lead  in  a  one-act  play,  Dick 
caught  fire.  Following  that,  he  worked  out 
a  kind  of  Martin-and-Lewis  routine  with 
his  chum  Bud  Turner.  The  act  went  over 
big  with  their  own  high  school  crowd,  and 
when  they  were  invited  to  repeat  it  for 
the  local  Rotary,  Kiwanis,  Lions  and  Elks 
— and  were  paid  to  do  it,  too — Dick  defi- 
nitely  caught  the  bug. 

After  graduation,  Dick's  friend  Turner 
dropped  out  and  has  since  become  an  ex- 
ecutive at  Pathe-News.  But  Dick  himself — 
whose  graduation  was  somewhat  delayed 
because  of  his  previous  illness — decided  to 
make  acting  his  life's  work.  On  the  advice 
of  his  teacher,  he  enrolled  at  Emerson  Col- 
lege,   near   Boston,    to   study    dramatics. 

He  stayed  only  a  year.  "I  noticed  most  of 
the  graduates  seemed  to  wind  up  teaching 
elocution  at  some  college  or  another,"  Dick 
relates.  "That  wasn't  what  I  wanted  to  do. 
I  wanted  action." 

Action — in  New  York — was  slow  in  com- 
ing, however.  After  breaking  the  ice  with 
his  walk-on  part  in  "Hamlet,"  he  wangled 
a  few  more  bit  parts,  occasionally  had  a 
chance  to  speak  a  few  lines  and,  once  in  a 
while,  found  work  in  radio.  Like  most 
young   actors,  he   had   to   depend   on   odd 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


78 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward  on  ... 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every  Sunday  Afternoon  on  MUTUAL 
Stations 


Read  "The  Tangled  Case  of  the  Frightened  Coed" — how 
Greenwich  Village  police  solved  the  sensational  Ann  Yarrow 
murder— in  June  TRUE  DETECTIVE  MAGAZINE  at  news- 
stands now. 


jobs  in. order  to  keep  body  and  soul  to- 
gether. He  packed  glass  crates  in  the  base- 
ment of  the  Steuben  Glass  Company;  sold 
men's  furnishing  at  Saks;  ran  a  freight 
elevator  in  an  office  building;  did  car- 
pentry work;  worked  in  a  light  manufac- 
turing plant.  Then  came  the  war  and— 
like  his  brothers,  who  all  went  on  to  dis- 
tinguish themselves  in  the  Army,  the  Navy 
and  the  Air  Force— Dick  tried  to  enlist, 
too,  but  was  turned  down  because  of  his 
heart  condition.  He  then  took  a  defense 
job  in  a  Long  Island  plant  manufacturing 
ordnance  supplies  and — wanting  to  do  his 
share — kept  at  it,  even  after  he  got  steady 
radio  work  in  Abie's  Irish  Rose,  making 
arrangements  with  his  foreman  to  have 
Wednesday  afternoons  off  for  rehearsals. 

Dick  is  proud  of  his  ability  to  work — 
and  work  well — with  his  hands.  "I  made 
pretty  good  money  at  that  war  plant,"  he 
recalls.  "We  were  paid  on  a  piece-work 
basis,  and  that  suited  me  fine.  I  learned  to 
develop  speed  and  rhythm,  and  turned  the 
stuff  out  fast.  It  was  fun."  He  claims  that, 
by  proving  himself  competent  with  his 
hands,  he  has  somehow  acquired  greater 
confidence  as  an  actor,  too. 

Since  the  end  of  the  war,  however,  it 
hasn't  in  any  way  been  necessary  for  Dick 
to  do  manual  labor  to  support  himself.  In 
radio — aside  from  fairly  steady  work  in 
such  shows  as  Abie's  Irish  Rose,  The 
Fighting  Senator,  Ellery  Queen,  Gang- 
busters,  The  Shadow,  Mr.  District  Attor- 
ney, Famous  Jury  Trials,  Radio  Reader's 
Digest,  and  Silver  Theater — he  appeared  in 
many  dramatic  programs  with  such  stars 
as  Helen  Hayes,  Laurence  Olivier,  Nazim- 
ova,  Jane  Cowl  and  Raymond  Massey.  In 
television,  he  made  his  debut  back  in  1945, 
with  an  appearance  in  "The  Front  Page," 
continuing  to  work  in  the  medium  occa- 
sionally until  1949,  when  his  association 
became  semi-permanent.  Cast  as  Captain 
Video,  he  became  an  idol  of  the  younger 
generation. 

But  playing  to  a  live  audience  is  very 
important  to  Dick,  as  it  is  to  all  real  actors, 
and  he  was  gratified  that — along  with  suc- 
cess in  radio  and  television — came  a  series 
of  equally  successful  parts  in  Broadway 
productions.  Since  1945,  he's  been  seen  on 
Broadway  in  "Alice  in  Arms,"  with  Kirk 
Douglas;  John  Patrick's  "The  Hasty  Heart," 
with  Richard  Basehart;  "Skipper  Next  to 
God,"  with  John  Garfield;  and  "Strange 
Bedfellows,"  with  Joan  Tetzel.  In  1947,  he 
was  in  a  brilliant  staging  by  Jose  Ferrer  of 
four  short  O'Neill  plays  about  the  sea. 
And,  in  1949,  he  played  opposite  Mae 
West  in  a  hit  revival  of  "Diamond  Lil." 

Dick  enjoyed  being  in  that  play  (which 
had  originated  Mae's  famous  line,  "Come 
up  and  see  me  some  time"),  and  came 
away  with  great  affection  and  admiration 
for  Miss  West,  but  he  almost  clashed  with 
her   before   the   play   opened. 

Mae  had  done  the  play  so  many  times 
she  could  practically  run  through  it  in  her 
sleep.  She'd  played  it  for  years  on  Broad- 
way and  finished  a  long-run  revival  in 
England  before  bringing  it  back  to  New 
York.  By  then,  she'd  had  a  number  of 
leading  men,  for  whose  exact  position  on 
stage  in  each  scene  she'd  developed  a 
diagram  that  made  tedious  rehearsals  un- 
necessary for  her.  Dick,  confronted  with 
chalk  lines  and  numbered  positions— in- 
stead of  the  voluptuous  Miss  West — felt 
very  much  like  a  robot.  He  pleaded  with 
Mae  to  let  him  try  to  develop  his  own 
character,  becoming  quite  bullheaded  about 
the  whole  thing.  Mae  finally  agreed,  and, 
from  that  time  on,  always  referred  af- 
fectionately to  Dick  as  "the  actor." 

Dick  could  afford  a  measure  of  inde- 
pendence, because  he  was  already  doing 
well  as  Captain  Video.  He  says  that  hav- 
ing two  good  things  at  the  same  time  seems 
to  be  some  kind  of  a  pattern  in  his  career: 


"It  looks  as  though  most  of  the  breaks  I 
get  come  in  pairs.  Usually,  whenever  I've 
latched  onto  something  pretty  good  in 
radio  or  television,  sooner  or  later  I  get  a 
chance  to  do  a  play,  as  well." 

Dick,  who's  been  with  Love  Of  Life  since 
its  beginning  three  and  a  half  years  ago, 
made  his  first  movie,  "Three  Hours  to 
Kill,"  last  summer,  and  was  recently  fea- 
tured as  the  second  lead  in  "The  Rain- 
maker," a  solid  Broadway  hit  which  was 
recently  sold  to  the  movies. 

Dick's  biggest  problem  in  holding  two 
time-demanding  roles  was  trying  to  get 
enough  sleep  and  keeping  fit.  In  addition 
to  his  six  evening  and  two  matinee 
performances  a  week  in  the  play,  he  por- 
trayed Paul  Raven  on  television  a  minimum 
of  three  times  and  frequently  as  often  as 
five  times  a  week.  Each  minute  on  the 
screen  requires  approximately  an  hour  of 
preparation,  and — on  matinee  days,  espe- 
cially— Dick's  schedule  was  sheer  bedlam. 
Fortunately,  Dick  has  an  almost  photo- 
graphic memory,  enabling  him  to  remem- 
ber his  lines  after  only  a  couple  of  read- 
ings. He  keeps  from  going  stale  by  trying 
never  to  let  his  acting  become  stereotyped. 
As  Paul  Raven,  whose  character  appeals 
to  him,  anyway,  he  finds  the  challenge  of 
portraying  continuous  growth,  change  and 
development  very  much  to  his  liking. 

Dick  nowadays  rarely  is  sick  nor  even 
catches  cold,  and  he  gives  a  major  share 
of  credit  for  his  fitness  to  his  long-time 
physician,  Dr.  Weinberg,  who  keeps  a 
watchful  eye  on  him.  Despite  his  old  heart 
condition,  Dick  is  permitted  to  do  enough 
exercise  to  keep  himself  in  good  physical 
condition.  His  weight  of  196  hardly  ever 
varies  by  more  than  a  pound  or  two,  and 
there  isn't  an  ounce  of  fat  on  his  hard- 
packed,  6'3"  frame. 

Since  he's  no  longer  allowed  to  play 
tennis,  Dick's  great  passion  today  is  golf, 


which  he  plays  consistently  in  the  low 
eighties,  with  his  score  frequently  going 
down  into  the  seventies.  He  plays  it  sum- 
mer or  winter,  whenever  he  has  the  time 
— and  practices  putting  in  his  living  room, 
when  he  hasn't.  Although  his  son  Ricky 
is  strictly  a  cowboy  at  this  point,  Dick 
gave  him  a  set  of  quarter-size  golf  clubs 
last  Christmas  and  expects  to  get  him 
started  soon.  He's  already  taught  him  to 
ski  and  roller  skate,  and  beams  with  pride 
when  telling  of  his  boy's  pluck  and  co- 
ordination. During  the  summer,  Dick  also 
does  a  lot  of  water  skiing  on  Long  Island 
Sound,  where  the  Coogans  have  a  summer 
cottage.  He  is  considered  an  expert  at  it 
and  has  a  couple  of  reels  of  film  to  prove 
it.  Taking  8  mm.  movies  is  another  of  his 
hobbies,    as    are    carpentry    and    painting. 

Dick  paints  in  oil  and  has  done  mostly 
landscapes  so  far.  His  work  is  surprising- 
ly good  for  an  amateur  who's  never  had 
any  formal  instruction.  He's  particularly 
proud  of  a  small  landscape  for  which  a 
stranger,  who  watched  him  paint  it,  of- 
fered him  fifty  dollars.  (He  didn't  accept.) 

In  New  York,  the  Coogans  live  on  the 
East  side  of  Manhattan,  in  a  neighborhood 
that's  just  on  the  outer  fringe  of  being 
ritzy.  Their  apartment  is  very  pleasant 
and  comfortable,  consisting  of  a  large 
living  room,  hall,  two  bedrooms  (a  large 
one  for  Gay  and  Dick,  and  a  smaller  one 
for  Ricky),  a  small  television  den  whose 
walls  are  covered  with  souvenirs  and 
photographs,  a  large  kitchen,  and — since 
they're  located  on  the  ground  floor — a 
combination  back  porch  and  hobby  room, 
and  a  garden.  Their  furniture  is  good, 
large  and  comfortable,  their  color  schemes 
warm,  and  the  over-all  effect  inviting  and 
relaxing.  They  love  to  entertain  friends, 
though  at  present  Dick  prefers  quietly 
spending  what  little  free  time  he  has  with 
just  his  wife  and   son. 


Aside  from  the  Coogans,  the  apartment 
is  shared  by  Shadow,  their  old  black 
cocker  spaniel,  a  couple  of  parakeets  and 
a  canary.  All  three  Coogans  love  animals 
and  would  probably  have  half  a  dozen 
dogs  if  they  had  enough  room.  Usually 
mild-mannered  and  gentle,  Dick  is  liable 
to  lose  his  temper  when  he  sees  an  ani- 
mal being  mistreated. 

Not  long  ago  he  was  taking  Shadow  for 
a  walk  when  he  heard  a  dog  squealing  in 
the  dark  ahead  of  him.  Catching  up,  he 
saw  the  dog's  owner  trying  to  "train"  the 
pup  to  heel  by  kicking  him  each  time  he 
strayed  to  the  wrong  side.  "I  had  to  make 
an  effort  to  keep  from  hitting  that  man," 
Dick  recalls.  "Even  so,  I  must  have  scared 
him  out  of  a  year's  growth,  the  way  I 
yelled  at  him.  I  just  hope  he'll  never  kick 
a  dog  again." 

Dick  admits  to  being  conservative  in 
money  matters.  He  feels  that  an  actor  with 
a  family  to  support  should  try  to  save 
what  he  can,  during  good  years,  so  he'll  be 
able  to  weather  the  lean  ones  which  al- 
ways may  be  just  around  the  corner.  But 
— conservative  or  not — he's  never  yet  been 
known  to  let  down  a  friend  who's  really 
been  in  need. 

Despite  the  heavy  work  load  he  car- 
ries, Dick  Coogan  gives  every  indication 
of  being  a  happy  and  contented  man  who 
is  grateful  for  the  chance  to  be  as  busy 
as  he  is,  and  for  doing  as  well  as  he  does. 
He  would  like  to  be  able  to  spend  more 
time  with  his  family  and  see  more  of 
his  friends,  but  he  finds  his  work  tre- 
mendously gratifying  and  rewarding.  Each 
year  of  his  life  has,  so  far,  brought  him  a 
little  further  along  in  his  career.  And 
he's  doing  what  he  set  out  to  do  when 
he  was  a  kid  in  high  school. 

He  likes  his  life  just  as  it  is,  being  a 
busy  actor,  proud  father — and  a  very 
lucky  husband  in  real  life. 


L 


HOLLYWOOD 


^^Kiss- 


Many  other  exciting  colors.  Westmore  Kiss-Tested  Lipsticks  proved  BEST  in 

movie  close-ups.  Smear-resistant  •  non-drying.  Guaranteed  no  finer  quality  at 

any  price.  At  all  variety  and  drug  stores.  HOUSE  of  westmore,  inc.,  new  york  •  Hollywood 


Daytime  Diary 


(Continued    from    page    25) 


PEPPER  YOUNG'S  FAMILY  Carter 
Trent  has  what  he  believes  to  be  the  best 
reason  in  the  world  for  disappearing — a  de- 
sire to  keep  trouble  from  his  family.  But 
if  he  could  see  Peggy's  anguish  as  each 
ray  of  hope  turns  into  a  will  o'  the  wisp,  he 
might  reconsider  his  decision.  Even  if  he 
is  found  and  the  truth  exposed  about  the 
crime  he  did  not  commit,  can  Peggy's  faith 
and  trust  ever  be  fully  restored?  NBC 
Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  Because  there  is  an 
unhappy  secret  in  Lois  Monahan's  past — 
and  because  she  works  for  a  wealthy,  in- 
fluential man — a  combination  of  curious 
circumstances  collects  around  her  and 
eventually  explodes  in  a  crisis  of  far- 
reaching  consequences.  Will  Perry  Mason's 
understanding  and  previous  knowledge  of 
Lois  make  it  easier  for  him  to  get  to  the 
bottom  of  this  important  case  and  discover 
his  hidden   adversary?      CBS   Radio. 

THE  RIGHT  TO  HAPPINESS  With 
Carolyn  in  serious  peril,  Miles  refuses  to 
believe  he  must  choose  between  his  poli- 
tical career  and  his  defense  of  her.  An- 
nette Thorpe  has  tried  hard  to  persuade 
him  to  leave  Carolyn's  defense  alone,  but 
Miles  has  learned  that  as  far  as  his  private 
life  is  concerned  Annette  can  be  ruthless 
and  untrustworthy.  Will  he  discover  that 
this  is  just  as  true  of  his  political  life?  NBC 
Radio. 

THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  The  double 
game  that  Dr.  Jim  Brent  and  his  wife 
Jocelyn  are  playing  goes  bitterly  against 
the  grain,  but  the  hope  of  reversing  Joce- 
lyn's  deportation  sentence  is  enough  to 
.  keep  them  at  it — Jocelyn  pretending  to  en- 
joy Armand  Monet's  attentions  and  Jim 
allowing  Sybil  Conrad  to  believe  that  he 
cares  for  her.  Will  he  win  proof  of  Sybil's 
guilt  before  this  dangerous  girl  guesses  she 
is  being  hoodwinked?  CBS-TV  and  CBS 
Radio. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

Jilted  by  Brett  Chapman,  Helen  Trent  has 
once  more  realized  that  the  real  love  of 
her  life  is  lawyer  Gil  Whitney,  and  for 
the  first  time  in  years  she  and  Gil  dare  to 
hope  for  a  future  together  as  he  seems  on 
the  verge  of  persuading  his  wife  Cynthia  to 
give  him  a  divorce.  But  Brett,  free  once 
more  to  pursue  Helen,  is  not  likely  to  ac- 
cept this  blow  to  his  renewed  feeling  for 
her.  Will  Helen  and  Gil  find  an  unex- 
pected enemy?     CBS  Radio. 

ROSEMARY  Springdale  is  a  small  town, 
and  Rosemary  is  accustomed  to  the  kind 
of  neighborliness  that  is  more  than  a  word. 
But  Diane  Thompson  seems  disinclined  to 
fit  herself  into  the  neighborly  pattern, 
though  she  appears  interested  and  friendly 
enough  on  the  surface.  Bill,  absorbed  in 
his  anti-narcotics  campaign,  does  not  share 
Rosemary's  disturbance,  but  she  cannot 
help  wondering  about  Mrs.  Thompson.  CBS 
Radio. 

SEARCH  FOR  TOMORROW  Miracu- 
lously exonerated  from  the  murder  charge 
T     that  might  have  cost  her  her  life,  Joanne 
v     Barron    has    every    right    to    anticipate    a 
B     brighter  future.     But  much  suffering  has 
made  her  cautious  of  anticipating  happi- 
ness, and  she  faces  almost  without  surprise 
the  possibility  that  her  vengeful  mother- 


in-law  may  still  be  able  to  prevent  her 
from  settling  down  to  a  contented  life  in 
Henderson.     CBS-TV. 

THE  SECOND  MRS.  RVRTON  Stan 
Burton,  his  wife  Terry,  and  Stan's  brother- 
in-law  Lew  Archer  are  the  first  to  admit 
that  the  desperate  scheme  of  Stan's  sis- 
ter Marcia  to  marry  off  their  wealthy 
mother  would  be  a  great  relief  to  all  of 
them.  Marcia  hopes  that  a  new  life  of  her 
own  will  keep  Mother  Burton  from  run- 
ning her  children's  lives.  But  the  half- 
humorous  efforts  of  the  four  conspirators 
may  have  some  highly  dangerous  results. 
CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Pauline  Ty- 
rell's  enmity  for  her  brother-in-law,  Peter 
Ames,  increased  rather  than  diminished 
when  her  sister's  death  left  him  a  widower, 
and  when  Jane  Edwards  came  into  his 
life  it  assumed  pathological  intensity.  For 
the  first  time,  as  Pauline  makes  her  most 
serious  effort  to  wreck  him,  Peter  wonders 
if  he  will  ever  escape  from  the  hatred  of 
this  woman  who  once  wanted  to  marry 
him.  Can  she  take  his  children  now? 
CBS-TV. 

STELLA  DALLAS  Wealthy  Ada  Dexter 
relentlessly  pursues  her  insane  plan  to 
force  a  divorce  between  Laurel  and  Dick 
Grosvenor,  so  that  Laurel  will  be  free  to 
marry  Stanley  Warrick,  Ada's  son.  Mean- 
while Stella,  who  has  dedicated  her  life  to 
promoting  Laurel's  happiness,  tries  des- 
perately to  restrain  the  daughter  she  loves 
so  much  from  making  an  irreparable  mis- 
take. But  there  are  some  decisions  not 
even  a  mother  can  make  for  her  child. 
NBC  Radio. 

THiS  IS  NORA  DRAKE  The  brief 
months  of  Nora's  marriage  were  the  hap- 
piest she  had  known,  and  since  Fred's 
death  only  her  desire  for  justice  for  his 
murderers  has  kept  her  from  breaking 
down.  Wyn  Robinson's  revelations  bring 
her  closer  to  her  goal,  and  with  the  help  of 
the  District  Attorney,  her  roommate  Mar- 
guerite, and  a  persistent,  quick-witted  re- 
porter, Nora  comes  closer  to  the  truth.  Will 
she  reach  it  in  time?     CBS  Radio. 

VALIANT  LADY  There  was  a  time 
when  Helen  Emerson  would  willingly  have 
turned  to  Bill  Fraser  for  comfort  after  the 
death  of  her  husband.  But  Bill's  realiza- 
tion that  he  loved  her  came  far  too  late, 
and  now  he  watches  resentfully  her  ill- 
starred  romance  with  Chris  Kendall.  Will 
Helen's  concern  over  her  son  Mickey's 
troubles  defer  her  own  decision  about 
Chris?  Or  will  it  be  his  insane  wife  who 
controls  the  end?     CBS-TV. 

WENDY  WARREN  AND  THE  NEWS 

Life  as  a  small -town  editor  has  not  been 
as  dull  as  Wendy  sometimes  feared  it 
might  be.  Almost  the  first  day  she  stepped 
into  the  middle  of  a  tense  situation  with 
repercussions  sufficiently  important  to  in- 
volve the  FBI.  But  more  significantly,  to 
the  recently-widowed  Wendy,  she  has  al- 
so befriended  an  attractive,  lonely  man  and 
his  delightful  little  daughter.  Are  Aunt 
Dorrie's  prophecies  justified?     CBS  Radio. 

WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES  Even  after 
years  of  a  successful  marriage,  a  man  be- 
gins to  question  himself  if  he  is  suddenly 


unable  to  provide  for  his  family.  Though 
Harry's  financial  difficulties  rose  out  of  no 
fault  of  his  own,  his  impatience  and  re- 
sentment complicate  the  problem  Joan  al- 
ready has  with  her  old  friend  Phil  Stan- 
ley, for  she  knows  Harry  would  be  furi- 
ous if  she  accepted  the  help  Phil  can 
easily  give.     ABC  Radio. 

THE    WOMAN    IN    MY    HOUSE    No 

family  is  without  its  problems,  and,  as 
James  and  Jessie  Carter  learned  years  ago, 
the  more  children,  the  more  problems.  At 
the  moment  they  are  contending  with  the 
doings  of  every  age  group,  from  infant 
grandchildren  up  to  their  eldest  son  Jeff,  a 
fully  adult  young  man.  Half  amused,  half 
concerned,  Jessie  wonders  if  there  is  ever 
an  end  to  a  parent's  trials.    NBC  Radio. 

YOUNG  DR.  MALONE  Although  Dr. 
Jerry  Malone  is  aware  that  his  aspirations 
for  the  Dineen  Clinic  fall  short  of  what  a 
more  ambitious  man  might  wish,  he  does 
not  realize  that  steps  are  being  taken  to 
take  control  of  the  Clinic  away  from  him. 
Has  Dr.  Ted  Mason  made  the  worst  bar- 
gain of  his  life  in  marrying  wealthy,  pow- 
er-hungry Marcia  Sutton?  And  will  Jer- 
ry's troubles  be  tragically  complicated  by 
the  jealousy  of  his  young  daughter  Jill? 
CBS  Radio. 

YOUNG  WIDDER  BROWN  When  Dr. 
Anthony  Loring  jilted  Ellen  Brown,  she 
determined  to  put  him  out  of  her  mind  and 
to  ignore  as  far  as  possible  the  vindictive - 
ness  of  his  scheming  wife,  Millicent.  But 
Millicent's  fear  that  Anthony  still  loves 
Ellen  keeps  her  hatred  alive,  and  leads  her 
to  attempt  to  crush  Ellen  completely  to 
preserve  her  own  security.  How  will  the 
reappearance  of  her  former  husband  af- 
fect Millicent's  plans?     NBC  Radio. 


"just  neighbors" 

that's  the  perfect  description  of  the 
fascinating  characters  you  meet 
on  NBC-TV's  exciting  "Daydramas" 

THE  GREATEST  GIFT 


CONCERNING  MISS  MARLOWE 

HAWKINS  FALLS 

FIRST  LOVE 

THE  WORLD  OF  MR.  SWEENEY 

• 

see  them   in  action,   in   exclusive 
personal-album    pictures,    in    the 

July   TV   RADIO   MIRROR 
on  sale  June  7 


(Continued  from  page  53) 

But  Pete  would  be  the  first  to  acknowl- 
edge that  portraying  Bill  Hastings— alias 
"Phoebe  Goodheart,"  the  lonely-hearts  ed- 
itor on  NBC-TV's  successful  comedy  show, 
Dear  Phoebe — is  anything  but  "type  cast- 
ing." Answering  all  those  who  write 
him  for  advice  on  domestic  matters  re- 
quires some  thought — and  even  more 
imagination.  Until  he  fell  in  love  with 
lovely,  poised  Patricia  Kennedy,  Peter 
Lawford  was  among  the  country's  least-in- 
formed living  authorities  on  that  subject 
— and  had  little  inclination  to  be  well-in- 
formed. 

With  his  warmth  and  whimsicality,  the 
handsome  British-born  actor  early  cap- 
tured hearts  on  and  off  the  screen.  For 
all  his  background,  he  preferred  to  swim 
at  the  public  beach  in  Santa  Monica.  His 
impeccable  jitter-bugging  tweeds  were 
more  familiar  to  the  Palladium  on  Sunset 
Boulevard  than  to  Piccadilly  Circus  in 
London  or  Park  Avenue,  New  York.  But 
Pete's  pursuit  of  Hollywood  glamour  girls 
was  always  a  polite  and  well-mannered 
(though  agile)  retreat. 

Cornered  now,  Pete  readily  admits: 
"Pat's  the  only  girl  I've  ever  met  that  I 
could  be  married  to.  Actually,  I  never 
could  stand  domesticity.  And  neither  could 
she,  as  a  matter  of  fact.  Pat  hadn't  wanted 
to  get  married,  either.  .  .  ." 

But  they  fell  in  love  during  a  Christmas 
holiday.  They  were  engaged  in  February. 
They  were  married  in  April.  And  now,  a 
year  later,  they're  the  parents  of  a  son 
whom  the  proud  father-to-be  early  decided 
— after  thumbing  through  thousands  of 
names — should  be  christened  Christopher, 
whether  boy  or  girl.  For  two  people  so 
avowedly    heart-free    and    so    determined 


The  Magic  of  Marriage 

to  continue  in  that  happy  state,  as  Pete 
grins  now,  "We've  made  rather  a  thorough 
go  of  it."  And  the  tone  indicates  he 
wouldn't  trade  half  of  today's  fate  for  all 
life  might  have  offered  otherwise. 

But  their  romance  is  too  deceptively 
casual  ever  to  be  found  in  any  successful 
lonely-hearts  column.  And  let's  face  it — 
while  not  even  "Phoebe"  himself  would 
advise  proposing  matrimony  on  bended 
knee,  these  days,  neither  would  he  sug- 
gest proposing  almost  as  an  ad  lib.  Nor 
would  Phoebe  Goodheart  advise  conduct- 
ing a  campaign  of  the  heart  amidst  the 
apoplectic  atmosphere  of  a  national  politi- 
cal convention.  Particularly,  between  two 
people  of  different  political  beliefs. 

Although  they  first  met  "at  some  party" 
in  1949,  when  Patricia  Kennedy  was  in 
Hollywood  working  as  production  assistant 
with  the  Family  Theater  radio  series,  their 
friendship  didn't  really  ripen  until  they 
attended  the  Republican  National  Con- 
vention together  in  1952.  Pete  was  the 
house  guest  of  Henry  Ford — "He  was  go- 
ing to  the  convention,  and  I  went  along." 
Pat  was  in  Chicago  visiting  her  sister, 
Jean.  They  were  all  staying  at  the  Ambas- 
sador-East and  they  attended  the  con- 
vention together  daily.  Seated  beside  him, 
Pat  would  simmer  audibly  and  vehement- 
ly: "Oh — those  Republicans!  Who  are  they 
kidding?  How  can  they  say  such  things!" 
And  Pete  would  volunteer  several-score 
reasons  how,  in  his  opinion,  they  could 

"We  don't  discuss  politics  any  more  now 
— period,"  Pete  grins,  with  the  wisdom  of 
one  who  not  only  married  a  girl  with  op- 
posing political  beliefs — but  married  into 
a  whole  family  who  really  work  at  it. 
Pete's  brother-in-law  is  Senator  John  F. 
Kennedy,    Democrat   from    Massachusetts. 


His  father-in-law,  Joseph  P.  Kennedy, 
Boston  financier,  was  Ambassador  to  Eng- 
land during  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt's  ad- 
ministration. And  another  brother-in-law, 
Bob  Kennedy  (Democrat),  is  now  chief 
counsel  for  the  Senate  Investigating  Com- 
mittee. "Pat  and  I  used  to  get  into  some 
terrible  arguments,"  Pete  recalls.  "We  were 
always  friendly — never  to  the  point  of 
choosing  seconds.  But  we  just  stay  away 
from  the  subject  now." 

Pat  remained  in  Chicago  for  the  Demo- 
cratic Convention  and  Pete  returned  to 
Hollywood — impressed,  but  little  realizing 
that  his  own  campaign  was  about  to  get 
under  way.  As  he  says,  "Nothing  really 
happened  with  us  until  a  year  ago  last 
December" — when  Pete  was  in  New  York 
to  guest  on  Milton  Berle's  show.  "One 
day,  I  ran  into  Miss  Kennedy  walking 
down  Madison  Avenue  in  her  mink  coat — 
shopping  for  groceries.  I  had  always  felt 
drawn  to  her.  I  admired  her  complete 
honesty.  She's  one  of  the  purest  individuals 
I've  ever  met." 

At  this  time,  Pat  Kennedy  was  producing 
a  Catholic  family  show  on  NBC-TV  in  New 
York.  She  and  Pete  had  dinner,  together 
several  times.  They  discovered  they  were 
both  spending  the  holidays  in  Palm  Beach, 
Pete  with  a  friend  and  Pat  at  the  Ken- 
nedys' palatial  family  home.  "Neither  of 
us  likes  to  fly  alone,  so  we  decided  to  fly 
to  Florida  together.  It  turned  out  to  be 
a  real  hand-holding  flight.  Actually,  we 
were  clutching  each  other.  Over  Tampa, 
we  got  into  an  electrical  storm — the  rough- 
est I've  ever  been  through."  Even  the 
weather,  at  this  point,  was  on  Fate's 
team.  .  .  . 

They  dated  often,  during  the  ten  days 
they  were  in  Florida.  Nostalgically,  Pete 


*fe 


^""^ 


oiMLY^fardust 

GIVES  YOU 

A 
"FREE  ACTION"  BRA  LIKE  T 


It's  true . . .  here's 
self-adjusting  "Free  Action"  not  even  achieved 
<fc  a      by  more  expensive  bras. 

Stardust's  slotted  cross-over 
FOR  JUST   I       elastic  construction*  means  each 
direction  pulls  for  itself,  both  work  together,  to  give  you  a 
fabulous  figure.  This  bra  really  lives,  moves,  breathes  with  you. 
Soft  lining  for  double  uplift,  gentle  chafe 
protection.  Pre-shrunk  cotton  in  A  or  B  cups, 
style  333  at  just  $1.00 


Stardust 

NTEEO 

m 


**  GUARANTEED  FOR  1  YEAR^  *  * 


*     _/ 
*  »  »  *  *  t~  / 


"EXCLUSIVE  DESIGN 

. . .  cross-over  elastic 

is  slotted  to 
"give"  in  2  directions, 
give  perfect  fit 
. . .  perfect  comfort 

'Patents  Pending  •  Design  Patent  Pending 


NO  IRONING  for  this  bra  in  dacron 
and  cotton.  Clever  swing  straps,  cir- 
cular stitching,  soft  inside  lining. 
Non-roll  foam  insets  under  cups! 
A,  B  or  C  cups,  style  328,  $1.00 


ALLURING  UPLIFT,  no  irritation  in 
this  fully  lined,  4-section  beauty. 
Non-roll  foam  insets  under  cups!  Fine 
pre-shrunk  cotton  with  swing  straps. 
A,  B  or  C  cups,  style  326,  $1.00 


STARDUST,  INC.,  Empire  State  Building,  New  York  1,  N.  Y. 


81 


even  drove  Pat  past  the  place  where  he 
once  was  employed  for  thirty  dollars  a 
week,  including  tips.  "I  took  her  to  the 
parking  lot  where  I  used  to  work  when  I 
was  sixteen.  That  was  a  nice  Demo- 
cratic touch — and  nice  Republican,  too." 
During  the  holidays,  they  decided  they 
were  in  love.  Pat  was  about  to  embark  on 
a  tour  around  the  world,  and  one  night 
Pete  remarked  at  dinner  that  eventually 
he  would  like  to  be  married  to  her — and 
Pat  agreed  eventually  she  would.  .  .  . 

"Eventually,"  as  it  happened,  was  prac- 
tically "now."  .  .  . 

Since  Pat  was  taking  off  for  Tokyo  on 
the  first  lap  of  her  tour,  they  flew  back 
to  the  Coast  together.  After  she'd  gone,  a 
lonely  Pete  went  to  San  Francisco  for  the 
weekend.  By  nature,  he's  a  man  of  few 
words,  and  the  first  knowledge  his  mother, 
Lady  May  Lawford,  had  that  theirs  was 
a  serious  romance  was  the  following  Mon- 
day, when  Pete  breezed  in  home  to  pack 
a  bag. 

"Who  is  that  girl  out  in  the  car  with 
you?"  his  mother  asked.  "It  looks  like 
Pat." 

"It  is  Pat,"  Pete  grinned. 

"I  thought  she  was  on  the  other  side  of 
the  world." 

"She  was.  But  I  called  and  asked  her  to 
come  back — and  marry  me."  He  was  flying 
with  Pat  and  her  sister  to  New  York  that 
night  to  ask  her  father's  consent. 

Hollywood  bachelors  were  finally  con- 
vinced that  the  prince  of  their  brotherhood 
was  about  to  bite  the  dust  when  Pete  pur- 
chased an  eight- carat  diamond  ring  and 
startled  his  pal,  Bob  Neal,  young  Texas 
oil  man,  by  inquiring  casually,  "Would  you 
like  to  do  me  a  large  favor?  Would  you 
come  to  my  wedding  and  be  best  man?" 

With  the  Reverend  John  J.  Cavanaugh 
(formerly  president  of  Notre  Dame)  of- 
ficiating, Pat,  26,  and  Pete,  30,  were  mar- 
ried a  year  ago  April  24  in  St.  Thomas 
More's  Catholic  Church,  New  York  City. 
In  the  past,  when  pressed  on  the  subject, 
Pete  had  hazarded  a  guess  that  he  would 
be  married  when  he  reached  the  mellow 
maturity  of  thirty  years.  "It  looks  as 
though  I  really  planned  it  that  way,  doesn't 
it?"  he  says  laughingly  now. 

Nobody  who  knows  him  is  surprised  that 
Pete  didn't  marry  an  actress.  He's  always 
had  some  doubt  about  how  that  might 
work  out — two  egos  battling  for  a  place  in 
the  Hollywood  sun.  One  thing  sure,  he 
used  to  say,  "She  won't  be  one  of  those 
ultra-career-conscious  girls  .  .  .  always 
looking  around  as  if  they've  lost  something. 
Peeling  a  room  to  see  whom  they  can  see. 
You   know — girls   who    can't    eat    without 


first  looking  to  see  if  a  director  is  watch- 
ing  them." 

That  description  certainly  wouldn't  fit 
Patricia  Kennedy.  On  the  other  hand,  Pat 
wouldn't  be  thrown  by  the  challenge  of 
acclimating  herself  to  show  business  and 
its  demands  on  her  husband-to-be.  Not 
even  four  thousand  of  Pete's  clamoring 
fans  screaming  outside  the  church — and 
knocking  the  bride's  princess  cap  and 
wedding  veil  askew  to  get  nearer  him — 
seriously  disturbed  her.  As  Pete  would 
say:  "She's  much  too  intelligent  for  that." 
The  spotlight's  no  stranger  to  her,  com- 
ing from  a  family  so  active  politically. 
But,  with  her  natural  reserve,  Pat's  happier 
out  of  it  and  she's  convinced  she  has  no 
place  whatsoever  in  Pete's  career. 

Nor  would  religious  differences  be  a 
barrier.  Pat  comes  from  a  staunch  Catholic 
family  and  Pete  was  brought  up  in  the 
Church  of  England,  but  from  childhood  he 
was  taught  by  his  mother  to  be  tolerant 
of  all  religions.  "I  don't  care  if  you  wor- 
ship a  totem -pole  on  Thursday  Island — as 
long  as  you're  religious,"  Lady  Lawford 
would  say.  "All  religions  lead  to  God, 
anyway."  Pete  didn't  give  up  his  own 
church,  but  he  took  instructions  in  Pat's 
faith  for  the  wedding  ceremony,  and 
agreed  their  children  would  follow  her 
faith. 

Theirs  was  a  wedding  day  to  remember. 
The  bride  traditionally  beautiful  in  her 
Hattie  Carnegie  imported-satin  gown. 
Excitement,  what  with  fans  and  church- 
crashers,  so  feverish  that  all  the  barricades 
and  twenty-three  policemen  couldn't  con- 
trol it.  The  reception  at  the  Plaza  Hotel 
rosily  aglow  with  pink  candles,  pink  table 
arrangements,  champagne,  a  profusion  of 
dogwood.  Their  first  dance  together  as  man 
and  wife,  to  the  strains  of  their  favorite, 
"Stranger  in  Paradise."  And  taking  off 
into  the  blue  yonder,  bound  for  their 
Hawaiian  honeymoon. 

But  Pete's  pals  will  never  let  him  forget 
that  .  .  .  for  all  the  love  scenes  he'd  played 
so  smoothly  before  the  cameras  with  Janet 
Leigh,  June  Allyson,  Kathryn  Grayson  and 
other  movie  queens  ...  in  his  nervousness 
to  get  back  down  that  aisle — he  forgot  to 
kiss  the  bride.  "That  was  a  real  mob.  All 
I  remember  was  saying,  'Let's  get  out  of 
here!'  "  Pete  says  now.  He  was  playing  this 
one  for  the  most  illustrious  audience  ever. 
Royalty,  diplomats,  senators,  socialites, 
statesmen-philosophers  such  as  Bernard 
Baruch,  and  motion-picture  stars  such  as 
Greer  Garson,  who  was  starring  in  "Mrs. 
Miniver"  when  Pete  was  working  as  an 
usher  in  a  theater  and  got  one  proud  line 
in  the  film.  Thronging  that  small  church 


82 


SUDDENLY  I  SAW  WHAT 
A  FOOL  I'D  BEEN! 

Thousands  of  people — bewildered  by  overwhelming  emotional 
problems — have  found  the  very  help  they  needed  on  radio's 
"My  True  Story".  For  this  moving  dramatic  program  deals  with 
the  emotional  difficulties  of  real  people  .  .  .  the  kind  of  people 
you  see  and  talk  to  every  day.  And  when  you  tune  in,  you'll 
hear  how  they  surmount  real-life  problems  of  love,  hope,  fear 
and  jealousy.  Each  emotion-packed  episode  is  taken  from  life 
jttelf — right  from  the  flies  of  "True  Story  Magazine". 

Tune  In 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

Would  she  find  out  In  time  that  life  with  her  dream-lover  would  be 
a  nightmare?  Read  "NE'ER-DO-WELL  LOVER"  in  June  TRUE  STORY 
MAGAZINE  at  newsstands  now. 


were  names  that  are  legends  in  their  own 
fields — and  who'd  touched  the  lives  of 
Pete  and  Pat  at  one  time  or  another.  .  .  . 

Logically,  their  own  paths  could  have 
crossed  years  before  Fate  finally  intro- 
duced them  in  Hollywood.  They  might 
have  met  in  Pete's  own  native  England 
in  1937,  when  Pat's  father  was  named  Am- 
bassador to  Great  Britain  and  sailed  there 
with  his  pretty  Irish  wife  and  family  of 
nine.  But,  in  1937,  Master  Peter  Lawford 
suffered  a  serious  arm  injury.  Reaching 
for  the  handle  of  a  French  window,  he 
missed  the  handle  and  ran  his  arm  through 
the  window,  cutting  the  main  artery  and 
endangering  the  use  of  that  arm  forever. 
A  specialist  prescribed  a  warmer  climate 
and,  together  with  his  parents,  Sir  Sidney 
and  Lady  Lawford,  Pete  sailed  for  Santa 
Barbara,  California,  where  the  muscles 
soon  began  to  heal  again.  However,  the 
injury  ruled  out  the  military  career  for 
which  Pete  had  been  unenthusiastically 
headed — and  he  headed  for  near-by  Holly- 
wood, instead. 

"We  were  all  reaching  for  some  reason 
for  the  accident  at  the  time  it  happened. 
I'd  always  been  so  athletic.  I  kept  wonder- 
ing what  I'd  ever  done  that  God  would  do 
this  to  me.  But  apparently  it  was  for  this," 
Pete  has  said,  of  his  Hollywood  career. 

From  childhood  Pete  had  always  been 
crazy  to  act,  but  tradition  and  ancestry 
decreed  a  military  career.  When  he  had 
an  opportunity  to  audition  for  a  London 
movie  studio,  Pete  and  his  mother  made  a 
bargain.  "If  they  say  I  have  no  talent — 
then  I'll  be  a  general,"  he  promised  her 
then.  Lady  Lawford  was  so  sure  they 
would  be  of  that  opinion,  she  consented. 
They  shook  hands  in  front  of  his  tutor 
to  seal  the  bargain.  However,  the  studio 
signed  him — and  she  couldn't  go  back  on 
her  word.  English  papers  front-paged 
"British  General's  Son  Goes  Into  Films," 
and  the  whole  thing  so  unnerved  relatives 
that  his  grandfather  immediately  cut  Pete 
out  of  his  will.  (Time,  however,  spared 
that  dignified  gentleman  from  seeing  his 
grandson  portraying  a  lonely-hearts  editor 
named  Phoebe   Goodheart  on  television.) 

Meanwhile,  labor  laws  prohibiting  any 
child  from  working  in  films  soon  nipped 
Pete's  career  in  England.  Then,  in  Holly- 
wood, his  voice  was  changing,  and  there 
was  nothing  to  do  until  the  process  was 
complete.  About  this  time,  war  broke  out 
in  Europe.  The  Lawfords'  income  was 
frozen  to  $200  a  month.  .  .  .  They  went  to 
Palm  Beach,  Florida — where  the  paths  of 
Peter  Lawford  and  Patricia  Kennedy  might 
have  crossed  again.  Pete  got  a  job  park- 
ing cars  at  "Mr.  Brookenfeld's  lot"  near 
the  Everglades  Club — and  about  a  mile 
from  the  Kennedys'  estate.  But  Pat  Ken- 
nedy wasn't  home.  .  .  . 

By  the  time  she  was  back  in  America 
and  attending  Rosemont  College  in  Rose- 
mont,  Pennsylvania,  Pete  was  getting  into 
the  groove  in  Hollywood — and  cutting 
quite  an  American  rug  at  the  Palladium. 
He  worked  as  an  usher  at  the  Village  The- 
ater in  Westwood,  and  he  got  his  foot  in- 
side the  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  studios 
one  day  when  an  agent  passed  the  word 
they  needed  an  English  boy  for  "Mrs.  Mi- 
niver." Pete  got  somebody  to  take  the 
theater  door,  rushed  to  the  studio,  read 
for  Director  William  Wyler,  did  his  part- 
one  line — and  was  back  at  the  door  before 
the  theater  manager  missed  him. 

Metro  had  a  flock  of  English-back- 
ground pictures  on  schedule  and  they  kept 
Pete  busy  in  "Yank  at  Eton,"  "White  Cliffs 
of  Dover,"  and  "Mrs.  Parkington."  They 
signed  him  and  he  was  soon  on  his  way  up. 

The  Lawfords  lived  then  in  a  little  white 
bungalow,  in  which  autographed  photo- 
graphs of  kings  and  queens  and  the  Prince 
of  Wales  divided  their  billing  with  a  large 
colored  poster  for  "Son  of  Lassie"  Pete 
had    begged    from    some    theater.    Lady 


Lawford  busied  herself  learning  to  cook 
on  a  little  white  stove  "which  looks  so 
cold— but  is  so  hot!"  Sir  Sidney  culti- 
vated his  roses  and  mignonette  beds.  Pete's 
pride  and  joy  was  a  little  putt-putt.  His 
fame  was  growing  fast  and  he  was  already 
a  favorite  with  the  bobby-soxers  around 
Greater  Los  Angeles.  They  overran  the 
house  and  kept  the  springs  broken  down 
in  the  living  room  divan,  sitting  on  it  six 
at  a  time.  They  thumbed  slowly  through 
his  scrapbooks,  hoping  desperately  that 
Pete  would  drive  up  before  they  were 
through.  "There's  no  need  to  fix  it,"  Lady 
Lawford  would  say  of  the  sagging  sofa. 
"It  will  just  be  broken  down  again." 

Soon  Pete  was  leading  all  the  magazine 
polls.  And,  on  the  screen,  no  M-G-M 
drawing  room  was  complete  without  him, 
no  matter  what  the  period  of  the  furnish- 
ings. But  Pete  was  personally  convinced 
then  that  his  forte  was  comedy.  So  was 
Don  Weiss,  M-G-M  director  of  "Just  This 
Once" — Pete's  comedy  hit — who  was  later 
to  direct  his  television  debut  in  the  Dear 
Phoebe  comedy  series.  By  now  Pat  Ken- 
nedy, out  of  school  and  ( vacationing  in 
California,  had  taken  a  job  with  the  Fam- 
ily Theater  radio  show,  and  they  had 
met.  The  six-foot  charmer  with  the  ex- 
pressive gray  eyes  and  flashing  smile  was 
turning  hearts,  on  screen  and  off.  Con- 
cerning those  ojff-screen,  he  was  still  of  the 
unflinching  opinion  that,  with  thirty  sum- 
mers, a  man  would  know  his  own  mind. 
And  Pete  did.  .  .  . 

"I  used  to  pray — as  mothers  do  pray — 
that  Pete  would  find  the  right  girl,"  Lady 
Lawford  says  now,  quietly.  "I  didn't  care 
whether  she  had  money,  or  worked 
in  a  bank,  or  whether  she  was  a  gardener's 
daughter.  Just  so  she  was  a  decent,  God- 
fearing girl.  But,  if  I  could  have  made 
her  with  my  own  hands,  I  couldn't  have 
made    anybody   who'd   suit  Peter   better." 

Pat  Lawford  radiates  quality  and  self- 
containment.  She's  extremely  intelligent, 
reserved  and,  for  all  her  wealthy  and  so- 
cial Bostonian  background,  a  little  shy. 
She  has  a  quiet  and  soothing  personality 
which  complements  Pete's  career  and  the 
feverish  pace  of  his  weekly  television 
show.  She  is,  as  a  friend  of  Pete's  puts 
it,  "the  kind  of  a  girl  who  let's  you  finish 
the   sentence." 

A  tall,  athletic  girl,  she  shares  Pete's 
love  for  outdoor  sports,  particularly  skiing, 
surf-riding,  swimming — and  sunning.  When 
Pat  decided  to  go  skiing  in  Canada  about 
two  and  a  half  months  before  the  baby  was 
expected,  a  friend  of  Pete's  asked  if  he 
worried  about  it.  "Certainly  not,"  he  said. 
"She's  very  good  on  skis."  What  if  she 
should  fall?  "You  can  fall  down  any- 
where," he  pointed  out  reasonably.  They 
share  similar  tastes  in  steaks,  clothes,  and 
music.  Both  are  enthusiasts  for  early 
American  jazz.  The  tailored  type,  Pat 
dresses  with  simple  elegance.  But,  as 
her  husband  points  out,  "She's  a  girl  who 
looks  just  as  great  in  blue  jeans  and 
sweater  as  she  does  in  an  evening  gown." 

More  importantly,  "Pat's  a  tremendous 
person,"  Pete  says  admiringly.  "She  has 
a  terrific  mind.  A  great  sense  of  loyalty. 
She's  so  honest — there's  no  pretense  about 
Pat  at  all.  And  she  has  such  a  wonderful 
outlook  about  everything."  Equally  im- 
portantly— for  two  early  dedicated  to  the 
preservation  of  freedom:  "Pat's  the  most 
understanding  girl  in  the  world.  I  trust 
her  completely  and  she  trusts  me.  There's 
no  possessiveness  or  jealousy.  That's  for 
the  immature,  anyway.  We  have  a  won- 
derful, easy  relationship.  This  thing  about 
hen-pecked  people — of  having  to  account 
for  every  hour — I  believe  this  has  been 
fostered  a  lot  by  gag  men.  You  know, 
that  where-were-you-last-night  routine.  I 
call  Pat  when  I'm  working,  as  a  matter  of 
courtesy,  but  she  wouldn't  say  anything  if 


r 


v. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR 

EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


-\ 


for  classified  advertising  rates,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (June-Worn.)  S 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

CHILDREN'S  PHOTOS  WANTED.  (All  ages-types)  High 
fees  paid  by  advertisers  for  use  in  magazines,  calendars,  bill- 
boards. Send  one  small  black  and  white  photo  for  approval. 
Photo  returned  two  weeks.  Print  child's  and  parent's  name 
on  back.  National  Photo  Exhibitors,  406  N.  Beverly  Drive, 

Dept.  P-2,  Beverly  Hills.  California. 

$200  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo  (all  ages)— if  used  by  adver- 
tisers. Send  one  small  photo  for  approval.  Print  child's- 
parent's  name-address  on  back.  Returned  30  days.  No 
obligation.   Spotlite,   5880-FPW   Hollywood,   Hollywood   28, 

California. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Wanted  Items  from  your  News- 
paper for  Publishers.  Some  worth  up  to  $10.00  Eachll  Write 
for  information.  Newscraft  Publishers,  5-PW,  Columbus  5, 

Ohio. _^ ! 

HOME  SEWERSI  PRE-CUT  Materials  furnished.  You  sew 
and  return.  No  selling.  Part,  full  time.  Ron-Son,  DepL  PW6, 

16351  Euclid,  Cleveland  12,  Ohio. ' 

MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog  (Plain  Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers;  $2.98  to  $22.98.  Crawford's, 

Dept.  28,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  ligm  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.   Crown    Industries,   7159-B 

Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  mailing  Folders  to  New 
Mothers  I  Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Allen  Company, 

Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Fort  Smith  3,  Ark. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-selling  che- 
nille monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.Y. 
EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  mailing  Advertising  Literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  O. 

HOMEWORKERS  NEEDED!  EVERYTHING  furnished. 
Guaranteed  Pay.  Genmerco,  Box  142N,  Boston  24,  Mass. 
SEND    OUT    POSTCARDS.    Cash    Daily.    Write    Box    14, 

Belmont,  Mass. 

FEMALE   HELP  WANTED 

SEW  FOR  BIG  Moneyl  Women  18-60  wanted.  Earn  to  $100 
weekly.  Experience  unnecessary.  Free  placement  service. 
Factory  secrets,  methods.  Complete  information,  Write 
Garment  Trades,  641 1-B   Hollywood   Blvd.,   Hollywood  28, 

California. 

EXTRA  MONEY  EVERY  Week.  I'll  send  you  full-size  Blair 
household  products  on  Free  Trial.  Show  them  to  friends  and 
neighbors.  You  can  make  Big  Extra  Profits.  Write  Blair,  Dept. 

185NH,  Lynchburg,  Va. 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  UP  to  $5  hour  demon- 
strating Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood. 
Free  Samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  Dept. 

P-65,  Glendale,  Calif. 

MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 
display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept.  N-6359,  Cincinnati 

25,  Ohio. 

HOME  WORKERS  WANTED  I  Self  employment  home  jobs 
listed.  $20 — $50  weekly  possible.  No  experience  necessary. 

Maxwell,  Dept.  B-6.  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
pay.  Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Holly- 

wood  46,  California 

A  DRESS  SHOP  in  your  home.  No  investment.  Liberal 
Sales    commissions.    Write    Bellecraft    Fashions,    111    YZ 

Eighth  Ave..  New  York. 

WOMEN.  SEW  READY-Cut  Wrap-A-Round,  spare  time- 
profitable.  Dept.  D.  Hollywood  Mfg.  Co.,  Hollywood  46, 
California. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY— Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B. 
Dunbar,  Dept.  G6,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
FASCINATING  PIECE  WORK  at  Homel  No  selling!  We 

pay  you  I  Truart,  Box  438,  Pasadena,  Calif. 

ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOME  sewing  Baby  Shoes,  Dresses  for 
established    markets.   Thompson's,    Loganville  2,   Wis. 
$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.    Easy.    Write    Studio 

Company,  Greenville  7.  Penna. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

WOMEN!  SEW  READY-Cut  Neckties  At  Home.  No  experi- 
ence  necessary.  No  Selling.  No  Machine  Needed.  Details  Free. 
Neckwear  Supply,  P.  O.  Box  2066-P,  Inglewood  4,  California. 
EARN  $25 — $40  Weekly  Mailing  circulars  for  advertisers. 
Complete     instructions — 25c.     Siwaslian,     431 7-F     Gleane, 

Elmhurst  73,  N.Y. 

$200  WEEKLY  CLEANING  Venetian   Blinds.  Free   Book. 

Burtt,  2434BI,  Wichita  13,  Kansas. 

HOME  STUDY  TRAINING 

PHYSICAL  THERAPY  PAYS  big  profits.  Learn  at  home. 
Free  catalog.  National  Institute,  Desk  6,  159  East  Ontario, 
Chicago  11. 


MONEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  sned.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid  Babbitt  $4165.00  in  few 
weeks.  Free  Book.  Washington  Mushroom  Ind.,  Dept.  164, 

2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle,  Wash. 

WHOLESALE!  12,000  NATIONALLY  Famous  Products. 
30-80%  Discounts  I  "Wholesale  Trade  Secrets"  Catalog. 
Sensational  Business  Plans  Free.  Derrom  Company,  21-28 

White,  Paterson  23,  New  Jersey. 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  day  up.  Hire  others. 
Samples,   details.   Studio   Girl-Hollywood,    Glendale,    Calif. 

Dept.  P-65b. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORK!  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sions! Everything  Furnished!  Hirsch's,   1301-C  Hoe,   New 

York  City  59. 

EARN    SPARETIME   CASH    at   home,    preparing    mailings 

for  advertisers.  Tern-Let,  Box  946,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

EARN  MONEY  AT  Homel  Must  Have  good  Handwriting. 
Write  for  Details.  Atlas,  Box  188-A,  Melrose,  Mass. 
SIZEABLE  COMMISSION.  SEND  postcards  out.  Inquire: 
Pioneer,  Box  13,  Wakefield,  Mass. 

STUFFING-MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how.    Dept.    G-6,    Education    Publishers,    4043    St.    Clair, 

Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

EARN   SPARE  TIME  cash   mailing  advertising  literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

SEND    OUT    POSTCARDS.    Cash    daily.    Write    Box    14, 

Belmont,  Mass. 

TYPISTS!  MAKE  MONEY  at  homel  Mailers,  2  Madison, 

Greencastle,  Indiana. 

PERSONAL 

BORROW  BY  MAIL  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men  and 
women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  endorsers. 
Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details  free  in  plain 
envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co.,  323  Securities 

Bldg.,  Dept.  F-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Discovery!  Free 
Trial   Offer.   Write   Pixacol,    Box  3583-C,   Cleveland,   Ohio. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

MAKE  MONEY  AT  home  as  renewal  headquarters  for  all 
magazines.  Liberal  commissions.  No  experience — no  capital 
needed.  Supplies  furnished.  Write  for  Free  catalog.  McGregor 
Magazine  Agency,  Dept.  150,  Mount  Morris,  Illinois. 
ADD  TO  FAMILY  Income.  Unlimited  earnings.  Work  in 
spare  time  demonstrating  household  plastics  and  toys.  No 
canvassing  or  experience  necessary.  Halliday,  17-B  Pen- 
nington  Ave.,  Passaic,  N.J. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  58-year-old  school.Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet   free.   American   School,    Dept.   XA74, 

Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W 

Station   E,   Atlanta,   Georgia. 

OLD   COINS   &  MONEY  WANTED 

$40.00  CERTAIN  LINCOLN  Pennies.  Indianheads  $60.00. 
Others  J5.00-$3,000.00  Complete  Catalogue  25c.  Illustrated 
Catalogue  50c.  Three  Illustrated  Complete  Guarantee 
Buying-Selling  Catalogues  $1 .00.  Worthycoin,  Boston  8,  Mass. 
WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue    25c.    Magnacoins,    Box   61-DD,    Whitestone   57, 

New  York. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular 
miracle  fabrics — nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top 
quality.  Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free. 

Hoover,  Dept.  P-119,  New  York  11,  N.Y. 

HEALTH  &  MEDICAL  SERVICES 
FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,   Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  &  Minor 

Hospital,  Suite  C-613,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

MALE  &   FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-14,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  Home  for  Stores.  Tiny-Tot.  Gallipolis 

19,  Ohio. 

ADDITIONAL  INCOME 

EARN  READY  CASH  doing  mailing  work.  No  experience 
needed — F.  Wilson  Business  Service,  2875  Glendale  Blvd., 

Los  Angeles  39,  California. 

STAMPS 

77  DIFFERENT  U.S.— 25c  Approvals.  Leonard,  1143X 
North  Keeler,  Chicago  51. 


Imagine  Making  Big 
Money  in  Your  Spare  Time! 

This  advertisement  brings  you  an  op- 
portunity to  make  big  money  in  your 
spare  time.  Rush  your  name  and  ad- 
dress to  us  today  and  we  will  send  your 
FREE  information  telling  you  how  you 
can  earn  $50,  $60,  $70  regularly, 
merely  by  helping  us  take  orders  tor 
magazine  subscriptions.  No  experience 
needed.  There  is  no  obligation.  Write 
today! 

MACFADDEN    PUBLICATIONS 

205  E.  42  St.  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


I 


r    ^     w    w 
Want  to  Get  Rid  of 
Dark  or  Discolored  Skin. 
Freckles,  Skin  Spots?] 


Famous  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  amazing  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream?  NIGHT  PLAN  to  a  whiter,  softer, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin. 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time- tested  plan  for  over  40  years  —  you'll 
|  love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
\.  i.  ,  J  i  Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  lOO^- guar- 
l\  •WrrollZ'sl  antee  or  money  back.  Start  using  it  now! 
3?  MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


83 


I  didn't  call  her.    And,  if  I  should  call  now 
and  say,  'I'm  not  coming  home  for  dinner,' 

Se  wouldn't  say  a  word.  I  wouldn't  have 
say  why — or  where  I  was  going.  You 
call  that  'understanding,'   I  suppose." 

The  same  delightful  understanding 
works  both  ways.  Pete  doesn't  suddenly 
make  noises  like  a  disgruntled  husband, 
either,  when  his  wife  wants  to  travel — or 
go  skiing.  It's  all  part  of  the  Lawfords' 
casual,   harmonious   pattern  for  living. 

However,  for  all  her  admiration  and  af- 
fection for  both  of  them,  Pete's  mother 
felt  that  they  were  being  just  a  little 
too  casual  when  she  had  to  learn  from 
Walter  Winchell  that  she  was  going  to  be 
a  grandmother.  Half  an  hour  after  the 
newscast,  Pete  happened  to  drop  by. 
"What  is  this  I  hear  about  you?"  his  moth- 
er said,  still  visibly  excited.  "I  don't 
know.  What?"  he  said.  "I  was  just  lis- 
tening to  Walter  Winchell.  He  says  you're 
going  to  have  a  baby!"  she  said.  "Oh, 
that,"  said  her  son.     "Oh,  yes." 

Admittedly,  Pete's  own  reaction  when 
he  learned  he  would  be  a  father  was  far 
less  underplayed— though,  by  way  of  prep- 
aration for  parenthood,  he  insists:  "I 
looked  at  Life  With  Father  on  TV."  But 
like  many  other  fathers-to-be,  he  thumbed 
and  thumbed  through  the  usual  names. 
"This  thing  of  searching  so  desperately 
through  books — thousands  of  them — it's 
like  a  comedy  show,"  he  grins.  However, 
he  soon  found  his  name:  "I  got  a  peculiar 
idea  nobody  else  seemed  to  agree  with.  I 
liked  'Christopher' — whether  we  had  a  girl 
or  a  boy.  It's  being  done  in  England," 
Pete  says,  a  little  defensively.  "They  call 
girls  'Christopher'  there."  Thinking  of 
himself  as  a  father,  he  admitted  from  the 
first,  was  "a  very  strange  feeling — and  I 
must  confess  the  feeling  is  even  stranger 
now    that    the    event    has    occurred." 

Pete's  flair  for  the  lighter  touch  and  his 
genuine  feeling  for  comedy  were  revealed 
long  ago — long  before  he  clicked  in  farce 
in  films  or  television — in  a  little  clipping 
he  pasted  carefully  in  his  scrapbook:  "The 
only  thing  worth  having  is  a  smile.  The 
only  thing  worth  doing  is  making  others 
laugh."    To  this,  Peter  "Phoebe"  Lawford 


is  now  dedicating  his  days  and  nights — 
frequently  including  Sundays.  It's  a 
frenzied  thing,  turning  out  a  weekly  com- 
edy television  show,  and  very  consuming. 

At  American  National  Studio  in  Holly- 
wood, where  Alex  Gottlieb's  Dear  Phoebe 
is  filmed,  they  shoot  one  picture  in  three 
days — and  shoot  five  of  them  consecutive- 
ly. He  leaves  the  house  every  morning 
around  seven  and  may  get  back  by  eight 
that  night — or  eleven.  His  lunch  hour 
(using  the  words  very  loosely)  is  broken 
up  viewing  rushes  in  the  projection  room, 
dictating  correspondence  to  his  secretary, 
Pam,  studying  future  scripts,  and  snatch- 
ing a  fast  sandwich  and  glass  of  milk  in 
his  dressing  room. 

But,  after  years  of  adorning  drawing 
rooms  on  the  screen,  Pete  has  no  com- 
plaints. Far  from  expecting  any  plush 
"star  treatment,"  Pete  clowns  it  up  with 
the  crew  and  takes  a  lot  of  affectionate 
kidding  from  them.  They  call  him  their 
Piccadilly  Ray  Milland.  "May  we  borrow 
your  face  for  a  rehearsal,  please,"  the  as- 
sistant director  will  say.  Then,  with  exag- 
gerated politeness:  "This  is  TV,  you  know 
— this  isn't  Metro."  Busy  studying  a 
script  with  one  hand  and  drinking  a  fast 
cup  of  coffee  with  the  other,  Pete  will  ask 
"What  scene  is  this,  my  good  man?"  "The 
scene  where  you  go  down  on  your  head," 
says  the  good  man.  "Thank  you  so  very 
much,"  says  Pete.  And  literally  he  does 
just  that,  falling  over  and  over  until  they 
bring  out  the  first-aid  kit  for  bleeding 
knuckles  and  knees.  "Already  a  casual- 
ty, and  the  day  yet  so  young.  Yes,  I 
know.    This  is  TV— it  isn't  Metro.   .  .  ." 

Folding  himself  into  his  beloved  Austin- 
Healey  and  limping  homeward  to  the  beach 
after  a  day  like  this,  small  wonder  that  it's 
a  relief  to  be  going  home  to  an  under- 
standing bride  who  doesn't  make  a  Secur- 
ity Council  issue  over  the  cold  chowder! 

The  Lawfords  lease  a  small  two-bed- 
room redwood  "over-the-water"  house  at 
Malibu.  It  has-  an  informal  farmhouse 
feeling,  with  a  large  functional  living  room 
and  a  charming  dining  alcove  facing  the 
sea.  Through  the  24-foot  glass  window, 
their  front  yard  is  a  restless  ocean  with 


changing  horizons  that  beckon — and  send 
them  surfing  in  Waikiki,  whenever  Pete 
can  get  away.  They  chose  the  beach 
house  because:  "It's  cozy  and  warm,  Early 
American,  and  has  such  a  wonderful  fire- 
place. And  we  both  love  the  water,  any- 
way." With  the  so-eagerly-awaited  Chris- 
topher, they  need  more  room  and  more 
yard  space.  Quarters  were  already  a  lit- 
tle cramped  as  it  was,  what  with  Pat's 
white  Mercury,  Pete's  Cadillac,  jeep  and 
Austin-Healey. 

Take  his  own  word  for  it,  Pete's  hardly 
qualified  to  advise  the  lonely-hearted  or 
anybody  else.  Husbands,  particularly.  He 
has  no  advice  to  give.  He  barely  has 
enough  for  his  own  personal  use. 

"For  one  thing,"  he  confesses,  with  a 
disarming  grin,  "I  procrastinate.  We  both 
do.  But  I  procrastinate  more.  Such  as 
when  we've  made  our  mind  up  to  go  to 
Honolulu  and,  at  the  last  moment,  when 
we're  catching  the  plane — I  still  haven't 
called  for  the  tickets.  But  Pat  has — for- 
tunately. 

"And  I  forgot  our  anniversary  com- 
pletely," Pete  continues.  "Our  first-six- 
months  anniversary.  Pat  had  said,  that 
morning  when  I  was  leaving  for  the  studio, 
'Let's  have  a  few  people  over  this  evening,' 
and  I  said,  'Fine.'  That  evening,  they 
brought  in  a  cake  and  began  singing 
'Happy  anniversary  to  you'  .  .  .  and  I'd 
forgotten  all  about  it.  I  just  stood  there 
with  cake  on  my  face.  I  said  some- 
thing like  'Oh,  no,'  and  Pat  said,  'Oh,  yes." 

Whereupon,  according  to  her  husband, 
"I  really  put  a  biscuit  on  it.  Thinking 
how  happy  we'd  been  together,  I  said 
something  like,  'It  seems  like  thirty  years.' 

"But  we  have  so  much  understanding," 
Pete  adds.  "We've  had  none  of  that  dif- 
ficult time  couples  are  supposed  to  have 
adjusting  at  first.  In  some  strange  way, 
we  have  more  understanding  than  many 
couples  who've  been  married  for  years. 
Don't  ask  me  how  it's  happened — or  how 
it  could  happen  ...  so  soon.  .  .  ." 

Pete  suspects,  however,  that  it  could  be 
because  "I  found  the  only  girl  I  could  be 
married  to — and  she  married  me.  .  .  .  For- 
tunately." 


(Continued  from  page  68) 
told  me,  'still  be  some  hope  for  you!' " 
Before  their  marriage,  Gale  and  Lee 
looked  earnestly  for  a  church  they  felt 
would  fill  their  needs.  And  they  found  the 
one  to  which  they  still  belong — the  Holly- 
wood Beverly  Christian  Church.  Gale 
says,  "It  wasn't  too  big  (we  like  a  certain 
intimacy),  it  wasn't  too  small,  and  there 
was  a  good  church  school  for  the  many 
children  we  planned  to  have." 

When  Gale's  oldest  child,  Phillip,  was 
two  and  a  half,  she  entered  him  in  the 
Sunday  school  class.  But  Phillip  cried 
when  he  was  left  alone  in  the  strange 
new  environment.  So  Gale  stayed  with 
him  until  class  was  over.  At  the  end  of  the 
hour,  she  learned  that  the  church  needed 
Sunday  school  teachers.  Gale  volunteered. 
She  taught  every  class  from  kindergarten 
to  high  school  for  the  next  six  years — 
1946  to  1952.  Dr.  Kleihauer,  minister  of  the 
church,  says,  "Gale's  little-boy  pupils 
waited  Sunday  mornings  on  the  steps  in 
front  of  church;  they  didn't  want  to  miss 
a  chance  to  walk  upstairs  with  their 
pretty  teacher." 

Gale  and  Lee  also  decided  to  take  part 

in   the   church's    "Operation    Youth"    pro- 

T    gram.  The  first  six  weeks,  they  put  on  a 

V    play,  with  the  high  school   drama  group, 

R     which  was  a  great  success.  The  second  six 

weeks,  they  conducted  a  forum  on  "Charm, 

„.  Good  Manners,  and  a  Christian  Personal- 
84 


Answer  to  Her  Prayers 

ity."  They  readied  themselves  by  reading 
church  literature  on  teen-age  problems, 
and  had  the  principal  of  church  educa- 
tion to  help  them. 

"But,"  says  Gale,  "the  kids  asked  Lee 
and  me  questions  on  subjects  we  hadn't 
prepared,  such  as  'Do  you  kiss  a  girl  on 
the  first  date?'  We  did  our  best,  though 
we  tried  to  turn  the  discussion  in  the 
direction  we  thought  it  should  take.  We 
don't  know  whether  it  was  our  ability  in 
leading  the  forum — just  our  awful  selves — 
or  the  question  on  dating  which  made  it 
such  a  success — but,  for  six  weeks,  we  had 
a  full  classroom!" 

Shortly  after  this  "Operation  Youth" 
program,  My  Little  Margie  came  along. 
Hal  Roach,  Jr.,  was  blessed  with  the 
idea  for  Margie,  having  been  exposed  to 
the  problems  of  his  own  teen-age  daugh- 
ter. He  wanted  Gale  Storm  for  the  title 
role,  and  they  began  to  film  the  series  in 
May,  1952.  Margie  was  good,  clean  enter- 
tainment. Gale  had  faith  in  it. 

But  Margie  did  cut  into  Gale's  time 
schedule.  She  has  had  to  give  up  the 
Sunday  school  teaching.  "It  takes  two 
hours  to  prepare  a  lesson  properly,"  she 
says.  "When  Margie  started,  I  was  up  at 
5:30  A.M.,  and  didn't  have  two  free  hours. 
Unprepared  at  Sunday  school,  I  had  that 
terrible  'lost'  feeling — -believe  me,  those 
teenagers    are    sharp!" 

But    Gale    did    not    give    up    all    church 


activities.  She  is  still  available  when  the 
church  calls  upon  her,  and,  every  Yule- 
tide,  she  narrates  the  midnight  Christmas 
story.  As  due  reward — indicating  that 
Gale  is  still  a  shining  symbol  of  worth- 
while religious  endeavor — she  was  ap- 
pointed the  National  Chairman  of  Sun- 
day School  Week,  during  the  week  of 
April  11,  1955.  And  Lee,  still  active  in  the 
church,  too,  is  now  a  junior  elder. 

Gale  and  Lee  try  to  teach  things  like  re- 
ligion, love  and  respect  by  example. 
Around  the  house,  it's  always  "May  I, 
honey?"  and  "Please,  will  you,  hon.  .  .  ." 
The  children  came  to  believe  that  all  mar- 
ried people  called  each  other  only  "Honey." 
One  day,  Peter's  piano  teacher  and  her 
husband  were  at  the  Bonnells'.  During  a 
lesson,  they  continually  referred  to  one 
another  by  their  Christian  names. 

"This,"  says  Gale,  "completely  threw 
Peter.  He  didn't  see  how  married  folks 
could  be  so  formal.  At  the  end  of  the  les- 
son, he  said,  'You're  not  really  married, 
are   you?' " 

At  their  church,  Dr.  Kleihauer,  the 
Bonnells'  minister,  impressed  Gale,  in  a 
sermon,  with  the  fact  that  the  dinner 
hour  is  the  children's  hour.  At  the  Bon- 
nells', this  period  reflects  their  basically 
religious  attitude  toward  life.  When  the 
family  sits  down  to  eat,  they  all  hold  hands 
around  the  table,  taking  turns  saying 
grace. 


"Lee  and  I  don't  discuss  our  own  prob- 
lems then,"  says  Gale.  "We  save  this  time 
for.  the  children.  They  discuss  their  day. 
If  there  is  a  problem,  and  there  generally 
is — somebody's  club  has  picked  on  Phil's 
club,  or  Peter  fell  into  the  ash  can  head 
first — we  discuss  these  problems  at  the 
dinner  table." 

Gale  is  pleased  when  the  boys'  thoughts 
and  actions  reflect  this  basically  religious 
attitude  they  have  learned  by  example 
from  their  parents.  "Sure,"  she  says,  "my 
three  boys  are  just  like  other  youngsters. 
They  argue  and  fight  like  all  brothers, 
and  there  are  'gold  star'  times  when  they 
are  especially  thoughtful  of  one  another. 
One  summer,  for  example,  Paul  had  a 
chance  to  spend  a  weekend  at  a  friend's 
ranch.  I  remember  how  nice  I  felt  inside 
when  he  turned  to  his  brothers  and  said, 
'Gee,  I'm  sorry  you  guys  can't  go,  too.' " 

Gale's  religious  routine  today,  she  says, 
"is  one  I  pretty  much  stick  to.  When  I 
wake  up — and  I  have  a  hard  time  waking 
up! — I  splash  water  on  my  face.  I  do  my 
spiritual  reading,  then  I  say  a  short  prayer 
by  way  of  thanks,  reaffirming  my  source 
of  strength  and  my  need  for  guidance 
throughout  the  day. 

"Then,"  she  says  with  humor,  "I  do  my 
exercises.  Lee  says  I  should  do  my  exer- 
cises first.  He  says  the  exercises  wake  up 
your  mind,  clear  your  head.  But,"  she 
laughs,  "I  couldn't  do  my  exercises  if  I 
hadn't  prayed  first  to  give  me  the 
strength!" 

Gale  doesn't  talk  prayer;  she  lives  it. 
After  eating  a  hearty  breakfast,  she  takes 
off  for  work.  It's  easy  to  see  that  Gale's  a 
tower  of  spiritual  strength,  for  it  seems  as 
though  everyone  on  the  set  drifts  toward 
her.  One  of  the  girls  at  the  studio  says, 
"Gale  is  bright  and  gay,  a  lady  but  not  a 
prude,  and  she  never  preaches — but  you 
can  see,  from  the  way  she  lives,  she's  a 
basically  religious  person.  If  everybody 
could  see  what  religion  has  done  for  Gale 
Storm,  there  wouldn't  be  an  atheist  in  the 
world." 

At  lunch,  Gale,  again,  leaves  time  for 
prayer.  She  always  takes  something  to 
read — the  Bible  or  some  spiritual  book — 
though  she  admits  that,  because  of  the 
press  of  work,  she  doesn't  always  get  time 
to  read. 

"Finally,  when  I  come  home  at  the  end 
of  the  day,"  she  says,  "I  plop  down  on  the 
bed,  sit  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  I  pray.  I 
find  it  relaxes  me.  I  don't  think  it's  fair  to 
the  kids  for  me  to  come  in  tired,  taking 
the  nervous  edge  off  on  them.  The  fifteen 
minutes  alone  and  the  prayer  do  the 
work." 

Today,  Gale  remembers  her  mother's 
words,  "Faith  is  like  a  bank  account  of 
prayers."  Her  religion,  having  been  a  daily 
way  of  life,  has  filled  this  bank  to  over- 
flowing. As  she  looks  around  to  count  her 
blessings,  she  sees  this:  Her  handsome 
husband;  three  healthy,  happy  sons,  all  set 
against  the  backdrop  of  their  lovely  new 
Royal  Oaks  home. 

If  anyone  were  to  ask  Gale  Storm  for 
her  formula  for  success,  she  would  simply 
say,  "I  pray." 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••A-*** 


INVEST  IN 


U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 

NOW  EVEN  BETTER 


*••••••••••••••••••••*•••*** 


AT  LAST! 


REGULAR  VALUE 


NOW  ONLr 

$4.98 


.*•■*  A  NEW  GIRDLE  DISCOVERY. 
GLAMOROUS  CURVE  CONTROL 
WITH  FULL  OPENING  ZIPPER 
FOR  "NO  STRUGGLE"  DRESSING. 

No  Pull- No  Tug!  Zip! 
It  Wraps  Around 
Like  Magic! 

6  Amazing  New  Features 
Combine  For  Zipper  Ease 
and  Wrap-Around  Comfort 

A  new  fashion  design  is  yours.  For  body  molding  into 
graceful  flowing  lines  nothing  compares  with  Flatteree. 
New,  adjustable  features  allow  you  to  get  the  custom 
fit  perfection,  comfort  and  attractiveness  of  a  tailor 
made  garment.  Full  opening  zipper  construction  assures 
a  wrap-on  fit  and  freedom  never  before  possible  with 
"step  in"  girdles.  It  gives  you  the  utmost  curve  control 
and  comfort  of  bias  tension  and  concentrated  elastic 
slimming    action. 

UNHEARD  OF  FREEDOM  AND  COMFORT 
Never  before  have  so  many  thrillingly  new  features  been 
combined   in   one   girdle. 

Flatteree     has     the     remarkable     "free-stride"     front 
that    walks    with    you. 

Flatteree  has  the   new  exclusive  "contour"  waistband 
that   adjusts   to    your    every    movement   and    provides 
undreamed-of    comfort    when    sitting    or    bending. 
Flatteree    has    a    two-inch    elastic    top    with   the    pat- 
ented   no-roll    construction. 

Flatteree  has  a  sculpted  Lastex  back  that  molds  you 
s-m-o-o-t-h-l-y,    gracefully,    naturally. 
Flatteree    has    overlapping    front    panels    of    strong, 
super-test     Nylon     enhanced     by     contrasting     sun-ray 
stitching. 

Flatteree  has  the   marvelous  new  full  zipper  opening 
that  makes  it  the  easiest  girdle  in  the  world  to  put 
on  and   take  off. 
•  Flatteree    above    all    molds    your    waist,    hips,    and 
thighs  to  an  alluring,  youthful,  slim-waisted  silhouette. 


Try  it  for  10  Days  FREE 

Flatteree  will  enhance  your  beauty  in  all 
your  clothes  because  it  molds  so  effec- 
tively while  adding  to  your  charm  with 
the  poise  and  grace  that  comes  only  with 
complete  comfort  and  freedom  from  re- 
straint. So  order  today.  Send  the  coupon. 
Wear  Flatteree.  Test  it.  Your  money  back 
without  question  if  you  are  not  100% 
delighted. 

Sizes  24-31 $4.98 

Sizes  32-44 5.98 


MONEY   BACK  GUARANTEE^ 

The  S.  J.  Wegman  Co.,   Dept  F-636 
Lynbrook,   N.   Y. 

RUSH    my    wrap    around    "Flatteree"    at    once.    If 
I  am  not  thrillingly  satisfied   I  may  return  it  after 
10  Days   FREE  trial  for   prompt  refund  of  the  full 
purchase   price. 
Waist  she    (inches)  Hip  size    (inches) 

O  Send  C.O.D.  I  will  pay  postman  on  delivery, 
cost  of  the  garment  plus  few  cents  postage. 
O   I  enclose  payment.  The  S.  J.  Wegman  Com- 
pany   will    pay    postage.    Same    money-back 
guarantee. 


Name- 


Address - 


Make  Big  Money 


selling  magazine  subscrip- 
tions. Write  today  for  FREE 
information:  Macfadden 
Publications,  205  E.  42 
St.,  N.  Y.  17.  N.  Y. 


Corns,  Sore  Toes  ? 


PAIN  STOPS  IN  SECONDS! 

No  waiting!  Super-Soft  Dr.  Scholl's  Zino- 
pads  stop  pain  at  its  source  .  .  .  remove 
corns  one  of  the  fastest  ways  known  to 
medical  science  .  .  .  stop  corns  before 
they  can  develop  .  .  .  ease  new  or  tight 
shoes  .  .  .  prevent  sore  toes,  blisters.  No 
other  method  does  all  these  things  for 
you.  Sold  everywhere.  For  FREE  sample, 
write  Dr.  Scholl's,  Chicago  10,  IlL 


Never  Before 
Anything  Like  It! 


4J 


D-Scholls  lino  pads 


85 


Why  Everyone  Loves  Jackie  Gleason 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
with  the  big  Saturday-night  TV  show.  And 
who  plans  for  next  season  a  complete 
filmed  series  of  "The  Honeymooners,"  plus 
a  live  half-hour  musical  and  variety  show 
— a  show  which  he  will  produce  (with  the 
expert  help  he  always  gathers  around  him) 
and  on  which  he  will  frequently  perform. 
Plus  a  half  dozen  other  projects — another 
TV  program,  a  plan  for  a  Television  City 
in  New  York,  more  personal  appearances, 
and  who  knows  what  else! 

Jackie's  sensitivity  to  other  people  and 
his  quick  reaction  to  their  moods  is  almost 
uncanny.  If  he  knows  you  at  all  well,  he 
knows  without  your  telling  him  whether 
you  are  happy  or  whether  you  are  brood- 
ing over  something.  I  found  that  out  a  long 
time  ago. 

1  went  to  rehearsal  one  day  with  a  prob- 
lem on  my  mind  that  I  couldn't  seem  to 
solve.  Automatically,  I  pushed  it  back,  be- 
cause I  have  always  believed  that,  when 
I'm  hired  to  do  a  job,  my  personal  life 
should  never  get  in  the  way.  To  everyone 
else  that  afternoon,  I'm  sure  I  was  the 
same  carefree,  gay  Audrey,  always  ready 
to  go  along  with  a  gag  and  to  join  in  the 
laughs.  But  during  rehearsal,  when  there 
was  a  short  wait,  Jackie  stood  next  to  me 
and  asked  quietly,  "What's  the  matter, 
Aud?  What's  bothering  you?"  I  was  too 
surprised  to  do  anything  but  shake  my 
head  and  say  "Nothing  at  all — "  quite  con- 
vincingly, I  thought.  But  Jackie  went  on, 
"Let  me  know  if  there's  anything  I  can 
do  to  help."  Just  that,  but  it  was  enough 
to  tell  me  he  knew  and  sympathized,  what- 
ever it  was.  Only  he  had  sensed  some 
subtle  difference  in  my  mood. 

Being  a  sensitive  person  himself,  he 
gives  other  people  credit  for  being  sensi- 
tive human  beings,  with  feelings  that  can 
be  wounded.  He  never  gets  off  in  a  corner 
and  whispers  to  someone  on  the  set,  a  thing 
some  directors  do  that  ends  up  by  making 
the  whole  cast  jumpy,  wondering  whose 
work  is  being  given  a  going  over.  Jackie 
is  fair,  and  kind,  to  everyone.  Almost  from 
the  first,  he  has  done  little  more  than  di- 
rect the  action  for  Art  Carney  and  Joyce 
Randolph  and  me — like  suggesting  that,  on 
a  certain  line  of  dialogue,  we  move  in 
closer,  or,  on  another,  we  walk  to  the  door 
— and  this  mainly  for  camera  angles.  As 
soon  as  he  found  out  we  knew  what  we 
were  doing,  he  respected  that  knowledge. 
But  more  than  that,  he  never  directs  the 
actors  who  play  incidental  roles  on  the 
show  as  if  he  were  telling  them  what  to 
do,  although  he  knows  how  every  least 
little  thing  should  be  done  to  keep  the 
whole  sketch  right. 

Jackie  will  say  to  a  newcomer  something 
like  this:  "What  you  are  doing  is  fine,  but 
on  television  that  won't  get  across.  This 
way,  it  will."  Actors  understand  that  he 
knows  this  medium  inside  out,  and  they 
respect   that   kind    of   direction. 

Jackie  never  takes  things  so  big  that  he 
forgets  to  be  considerate.    Many  others  in 
our    business — people    who    are    generally 
nice,      well-meaning      citizens — feel      that 
lapses  from  their  usual  code  are  justified 
when  they  work  under  pressure.    But  not 
Jackie.    It   can  be   close  to   air  time,   but 
he  will  stop  everything  and  carefully  ex- 
plain  his   reasons   for   wanting   something 
done   in    a    particular    way.     Next    to    his 
terrific  sense  of  humor,  I  think  most  peo- 
ple  would   agree  that   kindness   is  one   of 
his  most  outstanding  qualities. 
T        This  shows  in  so  many  ways.  Art  Carney 
V    tells  how  he  got  a  call  to  be  on  Jackie's 
r    show   when   Jackie    was   doing    Cavalcade 
Of  Stars,  for  Du  Mont.     Art  met  him  for 
the    first    time    at    the    studio.    "Gleason 
86 


looked  me  over — none  too  hopefully,  I 
thought,"  Art  says.  "I  could  tell  he  was 
wondering  if  I  would  do,  but  he  didn't 
say  anything.  When  I  came  down  in 
make-up,  with  the  little  goatee  I  wear 
as  Reggie  Van  Gleason's  father,  the  role 
I  was  to  play  that  night,  he  said  okay. 
The  next  week,  I  had  a  call  to  come  back, 
but  I  still  wasn't  sure  Jackie  was  satisfied. 
Then,  one  day,  I  got  home  to  find  he  had 
telephoned.  When  I  called  back  he  said, 
'Oh,  it  was  nothing  special.  I  just  wanted 
to  say  how  much  I  like  working  with  you.'  " 

It  was  Jackie's  way  of  letting  Art  know 
that  he  was  in  the  show  and  doing  fine. 
But  not  many  stars  would  have  bothered 
personally  to  call  up  a  supporting  player 
to  say   something  nice  like  that. 

Before  I  got  the  job  of  playing  Jackie's 
patient  but  loving  wife  Alice,  my  manager, 
Val  Irving,  took  me  to  see  Jackie.  Jackie 
tried  hard  to  be  kind,  all  the  time  he  was 
saying  that  I  was  too  ladylike -looking  for 
the  part,  too  pretty,  too  sweet,  to  play 
the  slatternly  and  acid-tongued  Alice.  It 
was  the  nicest  turn-down  any  actress  ever 
had  and  I  wouldn't  have  minded,  except 
that  I  wanted  the  part  very  much.  I  felt 
I  was  right  for  it. 

Val  felt  I  was  right,  too,  and  laid  plans 
to  prove  it.  He  told  me  not  to  get  up 
until  he  arrived  with  a  photographer  at 
my  apartment  the  next  morning.  "I  don't 
want  you  to  do  a  thing  to  your  face  be- 
fore we  get  there,"  he  said.  "I  want 
your  hair  to  look  exactly  as  it  does  when 
you  first  get  out  of  bed,  tousled  and  a 
little  limp.  I  want  you  to  look  a  little 
sleepy.  And  to  wear  an  old  kimono  or 
a  housedress  you  have  been  meaning  to 
throw  away  but  haven't  got  around  to  it 
yet." 

That's  the  way  they  took  the  pictures. 
When  Jackie  saw  them,  they  tell  me  he 
gave  out  a  whoop  and  said,  "That's  Alice!" 
He  couldn't  have  been  kinder  about  ad- 
mitting he  had  been  wrong  about  me. 
And  he  has  been  wonderful  ever  since. 
I  can't  begin  to  say  how  much  I  have 
learned  from  working  with  him. 

1  here's  a  standing  joke  on  the  show 
that,  whenever  I  make  a  fuss  about  any- 
thing, or  want  to  take  a  vacation,  Jackie 
will  say,  "That's  all  right,  Audrey.  We 
have  this  girl  who  is  dying  to  come  on 
the  show  and  she's  really  perfect  for  the 
part.  I  think  her  name  is — what's  that 
name,  fellows?  Oh,  yes — Jayne.  Meadows, 
I  think  the  last  name  is."  My  sister  Jayne 
gets  a  kick  out  of  this,  too,  I  might  add! 

It  took  Jackie  two  years  to  learn  how 
he  could  break  me  up  on  the  show.  He 
does  something  funny  with  his  face — he 
crosses  his  eyes  or  makes  them  stare,  he 
twists  up  his  mouth  and  tucks  in  his 
chin — I  don't  know  exactly  what  it  is, 
because  I  have  learned  I  can't  look  at  him 
and  keep  a  straight  face.  I  discovered 
this  "face"  of  his  when  we  were  playing 
the  Paramount.  One  night,  in  the  middle 
of  our  "Honeymooners"  sketch,  he  started 
it.  I  leaned  back  in  my  chair,  trying  to 
suppress  my  laughter,  when  a  leg  of  the 
chair  cracked  and  I  yelled  as  I  regained 
my  balance.  Fortunately,  the  leg  held. 
But,  by  this  time,  Jackie  was  in  top  form 
and  not  to  be  restrained.  He  kept  putting 
on  that  look  again,  and  asking,  "Alice, 
what  are  you  laughing  at?"  And  the  more 
he  asked,  the  more  I  broke  up.  Then  he 
ad-libbed:  "I  think  you're  drunk,  Alice. 
I  think  you  had  a  little  drink  when  you 
were  up  on  the  roof  getting  the  wash." 

By  this  time,  the  audience  was  in  on 
the  joke,  too.  I  was  almost  choking  to 
keep  from  getting  completely  hysterical. 
It  was  one  of  the  funniest  things  that  ever 


happened  to  me,  but  nobody  enjoyed  it 
as  much  as  Jackie. 

On  one  of  our  television  shows,  Jackie 
slammed  the  door  as  he  was  leaving,  and 
it  stuck  tight.  Art,  as  Ed  Norton,  was  sup- 
posed to  come  in,  and  Jackie  suggested— 
after  a  few  hopeless  tries  at  opening  the 
door — that  he  climb  in  the  window.  "I 
hope  this  breaks  Audrey  up,"  he  was  tell- 
ing everyone  backstage.  It  did,  because  as 
Art  hopped  over  the  sill  he  gave  me  that 
wry  look  and  said,  "There's  more  than 
one  way  to  skin  a  cat,"  and  I  just  about 
flipped.  Then  a  messenger  was  supposed 
to  deliver  a  telegram  and  Art  wished  me 
luck  as  I  tried  again  to  open  the  stuck 
door,  while  Jackie,  backstage,  was  roaring 
with  laughter  at  my  predicament.  When 
we  finally  got  the  door  open,  you  should 
have  seen  the  look  he  gave  me. 

Naturally,  none  of  this  would  be  as 
funny  if  ours  were  not  a  comedy  show 
where  anything  can  happen  and  be  woven 
into  the  script  or  laughed  off.  Neither 
would  Jackie  try  any  of  his  tricks  if  he 
weren't  sure  we  could  catch  the  ball  and 
run  with  it.  As  it  is,  when  he's  feeling 
particularly  gay  and  ad-libbing  so  bril- 
liantly, I  almost  think  sometimes  that  I 
can  see  sparks  of  electricity  playing  around 
him.  There's  a  real  charge  in  the  man  at 
such  times,  an  excitement  that  everyone 
in  the  theater  feels  and  that  gets  across 
to  the  home  audiences. 

.Making  your  work  fun,  having  fun  in 
your  life,  is  Jackie's  remedy  for  prac- 
tically every  ill.  For  him,  a  party  is  a 
panacea  for  everything  from  physical  pain 
to  heartbreak.  If  anyone  feels  sick,  or  dis- 
pirited, Jackie  says,  "You're  not  having 
enough  fun.  You  need  to  laugh  more." 
Once,  when  I  had  a  bad  cold  and  the 
doctor  had  warned  me  to  get  home  early 
and  go  to  bed,  Jackie  insisted  that  a  party 
would  do  me  more  good.  He  rounded  up 
the  gang  and  we  had  a  wonderful  time. 
I  never  felt  better  than  I  did  that  next  day. 

Jackie  likes  to  turn  everything  into  a 
laugh,  especially  the  difficult  things.  When 
one  of  the  June  Taylor  girls  was  having 
eye  trouble  and  came  in  wearing  dark 
glasses,  he  turned  up  with  pairs  of  dark 
glasses  for  all  the  other  girls,  just  to  make 
her  laugh  and  feel  better  about  it.  If  you 
tell  him  anyone  is  ill,  his  hand  is  on  the 
telephone  to  order  flowers  before  you  have 
finished  talking.  He  hunts  for  amusing 
cards,  selected  just  to  cheer  the  person  up, 
or  funny  little  presents  to  make  each  one 
forget  his  aches  and  pains.  If  you  tell  him 
someone  is  in  trouble,  he's  trying  to  figure 
out  a  way  to  help  while  you're  still  in  the 
middle  of  the  story. 

He's  wonderfully  loyal  to  old  friends, 
and  wonderfully  appreciative  of  the  small- 
est kindness.  I  sometimes  think  that,  when 
a  performer  becomes  as  big  a  star  as  Jackie 
is  now,  other  people  forget  he,  too,  might 
sometimes  need  a  little  sympathy  and  help 
now  and  then.  I  have  a  theory  that  people 
forget  celebrities  are  human  beings,  even 
as  you  and  I.  When  we  were  playing  the 
Paramount,  for  instance,  Jackie  came  down 
with  a  bad  case  of  laryngitis  and,  even 
with  all  the  doctoring  and  dosing,  it  hung 
on.  I  finally  decided  a  hot  cup  of  tea,  just 
•  before  he  went  on,  would  soothe  his 
throat,  so  I  brewed  it  backstage  and 
brought  it  to  him.  Next  day  he  sent  his 
dresser  up  for  his  tea,  and  after  that  I 
made  tea  for  him  every  day  until  he  got 
well.  You  never  saw  such  pleasure  for 
such  a  small  attention.  Maybe  he  didn't 
always  have  time  to  drink  the  tea,  but  he 
liked  being  the  one  who  was  indulged,  for 
a  change.  Most  of  the  time,  the  Gleasons 
of  this  world  are  on  the  giving— and  not 


the    receiving — end    of    small    kindnesses. 

Jackie  does  many  kind  things  which  no 
one  hears  about.  He  saw  a  little  item, 
buried  in  a  New  York  newspaper,  but  for 
some  reason  or  other  it  touched  him.  A 
man  had  died,  in  Brooklyn,  and  there  was 
no  money  to  bury  him.  The  family  had 
been  evicted  from  their  apartment.  Per- 
haps it  was  somewhere  near  Jackie's  old 
home  neighborhood.  Perhaps  there  was  a 
nostalgic  something  that  caught  his  atten- 
tion. At  any  rate,  he  got  in  touch  with 
the  family,  paid  for  the  funeral,  and  saw 
that  they  were  installed  in  an  apartment, 
before  he  was  satisfied  that  enough  had 
been   done. 

This  is  the  serious  Gleason.  Yet  this 
same  Gleason  giggled  like  a  schoolboy 
when,  after  the  new  contract  for  "The 
Honeymooners"  was  signed,  I  talked  to 
him  on  the  telephone.  He  was  out  when 
I  put  in  a  call  for  him,  so  he  called  me 
back.  As  soon  as  I  picked  up  the  phone 
and  said  hello,  this  voice  said,  "This  is  the 
Aga  Khan."  And  then,  with  much  hau- 
teur, "Is  there  anything  I  can  do  for  you?" 
Which  broke  me  up  completely,  and  set 
me  giggling  and  he  broke  up,  too.  It  was 
his  way  of  acknowledging  the  wonderful 
success  that  had  come  to  him,  with  a  little 
play-acting  and  laughs — and  a  lot  of  hu- 
mility. 

Interviewers  have  asked  me  at  times  if 
there  isn't  something  I  can  say  about 
Jackie  that  is  just  a  little  bit  on  the  mean 
side,  to  make  the  story  more  interesting. 
I  can't.  The  only  mean  things  I  know 
about  him  are  the  ones  that  have  been 
done  to  him,  not  by  him.  He  had  plenty 
of  tough  breaks  as  a  boy.  His  father  walked 
away  from  the  family,  his  brother  died  as 
a  young  child,  his  hard-working  mother 
died,  too,  before  he  could  do  a  hundredth 
part  of  the  things  he  wanted  to  do  for 
her.  I  think  all  this  has  made  Jackie 
more  understanding,  more  kind,  more 
thoughtful,  more  sensitive.  And  more 
eager  to  get  all  the  laughs  he  can  out 
of  life,  and  to  give  them  to  others. 

Recently,  people  have  begun  to  ask  me 
if  I  think  filming  "The  Honeymooners" 
will  be  as  much  fun  as  doing  it  live.  All 
I  can  say  is  that,  wherever  Jackie  Gleason 
is,  there  will  always  be  excitement.  I  once 
told  a  newspaperman  that  working  with 
Jackie  was  a  lot  like  sitting  on  the  edge 
of  a  volcano,  with  my  feet  dangling  over 
a  crater  that  could  erupt  any  moment. 
But  there  the  analogy  ends,  because — un- 
like what  happens  when  a  volcano  erupts — 
with  Jackie,  everything  turns  out  to  be 
fun.    Magnificent,   glorious  fun. 

That's  certainly  the  secret  why  every- 
body  who   works   with   him   loves   him! 


MORE   MEADOWS! 

This    month,    you've    heard    from 
Audrey,  of  "The  Honeymooners"  . . . 

next  month,   read  about  sister 

Jayne  and  her  handsome  husband, 

Sfeve  Allen,  and  their 

HONEYMOON  IN  THE  SUN 

.  .  .  complete  with  color  pictures! 
Also  in  full  color,  Herb  Nelson  of 

THE  GUIDING  LIGHT 

and  Arthur  Godfrey's  Irish  thrush, 

CARMEL  QUINN 

in     TV    RADIO    MIRROR    for  July 
at  your   newsstand   June   7 


ASK  YOUR 

DOCTOR 

OR 

DRUGGIST 


If  you  want  to 

BANISH  BAD  BREATH  AND 
BODY  ODOR  PROBLEMS  FOREVER 

-Try  "ENNDS"8  Tab,ets  containing 
Darotol®-the  only  deodorant  that  gets  to  the 
source  of  both  problems  internally 


Neither  a  shower  nor  a ^dab-  «***£  J^SPfflJ 

or  mask  external  symptoms. 

«EtW  contain  Darotol- one  of  th^ost  j^-JS* 

ofSrophyU  ever  extracted  foW^  ^  where  deodorant 
^NNDS-actsi^maHy,  where  odorsstarta  ^^  ^ 

sprays,  creams,  mouthwashes,  etc-^m  fa  ^^  m 

k^fo^ycTSJ^  youly  connng  out  on  you, 

breath  or  through  your  pores. 

Safe,  pleasant-tasting  "£»**£ 
do  not  upset  the  stomach  Trial 
size  at  all  Drug  counters  only  4SW. 
SL  larger  sizes  are  even  more 
Iconomical.  "Ennds"  are  also 
available  in  Canada. 


THIS  AD  IS 
WORTH  MONEY! 

Let  us  show  you  how  to  make  big  money  in  your 
spare  time  by  helping  us  take  orders  for  maga- 
zine subscriptions.  Write  today  for  FREE  money- 
making  information.  There  is  no  obligaton. 

MACFADDEN    PUBLICATIONS 

205  E.  42  St..  N.  Y.  17.  N.  Y. 


Blonde  Hair 

is  worth 

'1,000,000 

when  you  wash  in 

NEW  LIFE  and 
bring  out  SHINING, 

RADIANT  COLOR 

with  this 

Special  Shampoo! 


Want  to  keep  your  hair  from  getting  dark  and  faded? 
Want  to  restore  its  life  and  lustre— see  it  shades  lighter, 
brighter,  shinier— at  once?  Then  use  BLONDEX,  the  new 
"creamy"  shampoo  made  specially  for  blondes.  Contains 
ANDIUM— shines  and  lightens  as  it  shampoos.  In  just 
II- minutes,  its  rich,  billowy  lather  rinses  away  dingy  film  that 
makes  hair  dark  and  dull,  uncovers  sparkling  highlights  and 
shimmering  lustre.  Safe  for  children's  delicate  hair.  Get 
BLONDEX  today!  At  all  104,  drug  and  department  stores. 


quired. 

De 

Plei 
Name- 
City 


MAKE  S50-S60  A   WEEK 

You  can  learn  at  home  in  spare  time. 
Choice  of  careers:  practical  nurse, 
nursing  aide,  hospital  attendant,  infant 
nurse,  nurse-companion,  doctor's  office, 
etc.  Course  endorsed  by  physicians. 
56th  year.  Equipment  included.  Men, 
women,  18  to  60.  High  school  not  re- 
Easy  tuition  payments.  Trial  plan.  Write  today. 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF    NURSING 

pt.   26.   25   East  Jackson   Blvd.,   Chicago  4,    III. 

tse  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 


State  . 


.Age- 


'* 


PERMANENT  DARKENER 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 

SWIMPROOF!  One  application  lasts 
4  to  5  weeks!  Our  22nd  year. 

"for  the  hairs  lo  which  applied 

$1.00  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores 


25< 


Send  TODAY 
for  TRIAL  SIZE! 


"DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  p. 
3319  w.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  enclose  25<  (coin  or  stamps-lax  included)  for  TRIAL  SIZE 
PACKAGE  of  "Dork-Eyes"  wilh  directions. 

check  shade:  □  Black  Q  Brown 


65 


I 

_  Nor 
|  Add 
■  ■Tow 


■  I 


87 


(Continued  from  page  35) 
in  reply,  all  adding  up  to  the  same  sur- 
prising conclusion.  Given  a  choice 
between  watching  Garroway  and  main- 
taining a  normal  daily  life,  most  fans 
are  determined  to  have  their  cake  and 
eat  it,  too.  Many  viewers,  Dave  found, 
bring  a  bundle  of  clothes  to  the  TV  set 
and  dress  around  it  in  much  the  same 
way  their  grandparents  once  "dressed 
around  the  old  wood  stove."  The  ma- 
jority, however,  eat  breakfast  while 
watching  Today.  This  entails  no  diffi- 
culty on  the  part  of  the  family,  of  course, 
but  what  about  the  woman  of  the  house 
who  must  prepare  that  breakfast  in  the 
kitchen? 

Efficiency  is  the  answer  for  one.  "Turn 
TV  on  at  6:45  A.M.  to  signal,"  she  wrote. 
"Squeeze  orange  juice  before  7,  as  mixer 
throws  picture  off.  Bring  in  milk,  put 
coffee  on,  cook  everything  but  bacon — 
as  I  can  turn  bacon  from  around  corner 
of  door  in  kitchen  while  watching." 

Another  woman  simply  leaves  her 
kitchen  door  open.  "We  have  a  mirror 
over  the  sink,"  she  explained,  "and,  by 
shoving  the  can  opener  under  one  corner 
of  it,  I  can  get  the  proper  angle  and 
watch    everything    that    goes    on." 

One  correspondent  managed  to  have 
"a  full  view  of  the  goings-on"  in  the 
living  room  "whilst  dunking  (his)  morn- 
ing doughnuts"  in  the  kitchen — by  cutting 
a  six-by-six  foot  opening  in  the  wall 
between  the  rooms  and  disguising  it  as 
an    "open"    bookshelf. 

And  then  there's  the  letter  from  a 
young  housewife:  "My  husband  and  I 
turn  the  set  on  when  we  first  get  up  at 
seven  in  the  morning.  And  I  must  say 
that  your  program  gives  us  a  good  rea- 
son for  getting  up.  We  run  from  the 
bedroom  to  the  living  room,  to  the  bath, 
to  the  baby's  room,  to  the  kitchen.  Luck- 
ily, the  floor  plan  gives  us  a  circle — so, 
by  keeping  clockwise  traffic,  we  don't 
run   into    each   other." 

In  contrast  is  the  woman  who  watches 
Today  from  her  bed.  This  required  her 
having  a  cabinet  maker  put  a  .  swivel 
top  on  the  TV  table  so  the  set  could 
be  turned  toward  her.  But  then,  she 
found,  the  foot  of  her  bed  cut  the  TV 
picture  in  half.  Either  she  would  have 
to  raise  her  head  off  the  pillow  or  raise 
her  TV  set.  Naturally,  she  returned  to 
the  cabinet  maker  and  had  him  extend 
the   legs   on   the   TV   table. 

JV1  ost  women,  however,  have  too  much 
to  do  to  allow  for  the  luxury  of  remain- 
ing abed  in  the  morning.  While  Garro- 
way is  on  the  air,  they  iron,  tend  the 
baby,  sew,  knit  or  crochet  by  the  TV 
set.  Those  with  receivers  in  the  kitchen 
cook,  wash  dishes  or  make  sandwiches. 
These  women  not  only  get  their  husbands 
off  to  work  in  time  and  their  children 
off  to  school,  they  manage  to  watch  the 
entire  show  without  postponing  the 
housework.  Their  letters  prove  that  far 
from  interfering  with  normal  daily  life, 
Today  provides  a  much-needed  supple- 
ment— as  little  trouble,  and  just  as  wel- 
come,   as    the    morning    newspaper. 

By   now,   some   four-and-a-half   million 
viewers  have  changed  their  habits — some 
have    even    rearranged    their    homes — in 
order  to  accommodate  Dave's  early  morn- 
ing TV   show.    This  is  a  tribute  not  only 
to  the  adaptability   of  Americans  to  new 
ideas,   but   to   the   nation-wide   popularity 
_     of  a  good-natured  guy  with  horn-rimmed 
V    glasses    and    a    happy    bow    tie — the    most 
D     comfortable   personality    in    TV    today. 

Trying  to  explain  the  nature  of  Dave's 
appeal,    critics    invariably    call    him    "re- 
88 


Man  of  Today 

laxed" — as  though  four-and-a-half  mil- 
lion people  would  stagger  out  of  bed  at 
seven  o'clock  on  a  weekday  morning  to 
watch  someone  else  "relax."  More  par- 
ticularly, Dave  is  a  "relaxing"  person. 
And,  in  the  morning,  people  need  a 
little  relaxation.  Today  is  like  that  mo- 
ment of  calm  before  the  storm — the 
breathing  space  that  gets  a  man  set  for 
what's  about  to  come.  Take  it  easy,  Dave 
seems  to  be  saying,  you'll  get  there  just 
as  fast. 

Certainly,  in  his  own  life,  Dave  ex- 
emplifies the  moral  of  that  old  sCory 
about  the  tortoise  and  the  hare.  In  a 
business  as  competitive  as  radio  and  TV, 
the  race  for  success  sometimes  goes  to 
the  fast-talking,  the  overly  ambitious, 
the  self-pushing.  Yet  Dave — slowly  but 
surely,  and  even  quietly — has  outstripped 
many  a  wild  hare  and  won  his  way  to 
the  top.  He  claims  it's  just  luck  and  cites 
instance  after  instance  to  prove  he  got 
the  breaks.  But  is  it  that  simple?  Or  is 
it  that  Dave,  by  taking  it  easy,  has  had 
the  perspective  to  size  up  his  breaks  and 
know  what  to  do  with  them?  At  least, 
his  getting  into  radio  in  the  first  place 
was  a  matter  of  pure  chance.  "That  was 
in  1937,"  Dave  recalls.  "I  was  a  Bachelor 
of  Fine  Arts,  fresh  out  of  Washington 
University,  where  I  had  majored  in  Ab- 
normal Psychology  and  English."  He 
chuckles,  well  aware  that  this  doesn't 
explain  how  he  happened  to  be  selling 
piston  rings  in  Boston.  But  perhaps  it 
explains  why — as  he  says — "I  didn't  sell 
one   single   ring. 

"So  then  I  found  myself  in  New  York," 
he  continues,  "trying  to  sell  a  book  to 
schoolteachers.  One  day,  I  happened  to 
be  in  a  hotel  lobby  when  I  ran  into  a 
young  man  who  had  once  courted  the 
same  girl  I  had.  At  the  time,  we  were 
arch  rivals,  but  now — years  later — the 
passion  had  all  cooled  off.  He  said  he 
needed  a  fourth  for  bridge,  and  that's 
how  I  ended  up  in  a  game  with  the 
Assistant  Manager  of  Guest  Relations 
for  NBC.  She  happened  to  mention  that 
NBC  was  looking  for  page  boys  and, 
several  days  later,  I  was  in  uniform — in 
Rockefeller    Center." 

It  was  there,  in  a  training  class  for 
future  announcers,  that  Dave  wound  up 
twenty-third  in  a  class  of  twenty-four. 
"I  couldn't  believe  I  was  that  bad,"  he 
says.  "I  was  sure  it  must  be  some  mis- 
take." It  probably  was — for,  one  month 
later,  Dave  got  the  best  job  of  anyone 
in  his  class:  Special  Events  Director  at 
Station  KDKA  in  Pittsburgh.  And  the 
mistake,  if  it  was  one,  also  proved  a 
lucky   break. 

"For  the  first  time  in  my  life,"  he  ad- 
mits, "I  was  filled  with  a  burning  ambi- 
tion." Not  that  he  was  out  to  set  the 
world  on  fire.  He  just  wanted  to  prove 
himself — and  he  did.  One  year  after 
going  to  work  in  Pittsburgh,  NBC  gave 
him  a  staff  job  at  Station  WMAQ  in 
Chicago. 

Dave's  now-famous  "relaxed"  style 
also  came  about  as  a  matter  of  chance, 
a  by-product  of  World  War  II.  "I  was 
instructing  in  a  yeoman  school  at  Pearl 
Harbor,"  he  recalls.  "At  night,  during 
my  off-duty  hours,  I  was  given  permis- 
sion to  broadcast  a  disc-jockey  show  at 
a  radio  station  in  near-by  Honolulu. 
After  my  daytime  duties,  however,  I  was 
too  tired  to  plot  a  program  and  write 
continuity,  so  I  just  played  jazz  and 
said  anything  that  came  into  my  head." 
It  turned  out  to  be  perfect  practice  for 
his  next  lucky  break.  When  Dave  re- 
turned to  Chicago  after  his  discharge, 
WMAQ    assigned    him    to    a    disc- jockey 


show  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  because 
he  was  the  only  staff  announcer  who 
didn't  live  out  in  the  suburbs.  Dave 
dug  into  the  music  library  and  played 
all  the  recordings  he  had  missed  during 
those  three  years  in  the  Navy.  And,  be- 
cause it  was  late  at  night,  he  relaxed  as 
he  had  in  Honolulu — talking  at  random 
about  any  subject  under  the  sun.  That 
was  when  the  fan  mail  started  arriving 
in  such  quantities  that  the  station  had 
to   hire    a    special    clerk   to   handle    it. 

In  1949,  when  NBC  opened  its  TV 
lines  to  Chicago,  Garroway  At  Large 
was  one  of  the  first  shows  to  emanate 
from  that  city.  This  was  not  luck,  of 
course,  for  Dave  was  already  a  success 
in  radio.  But  it  was  a  break  being  given 
such  a  low  budget  for  a  variety  show. 
Unable  to  compete  with  the  high-priced 
stars,  the  choruses,  the  lavish  sets  and 
costumes  of  New  York  telecasts,  Dave 
substituted  imagination  and  a  new  kind 
of  TV  comedy.  In  Garroway  At  Large, 
there  was  no  slapstick,  no  insulting 
jokes — just  a  quiet,  off-beat  kind  of 
humor  that  had  the  nation  chuckling  to 
itself.  Sometimes,  there  was  no  set — just 
the  bare  walls  of  the  studio — and  the 
one  prop  might  be  a  ladder  or  a  flight 
of  stairs.  But  thanks  to  brilliant  camera 
work  and  inventive  staging,  the  TV 
screen  came  alive.  The  show  somehow 
translated  Dave's  casual,  relaxed  style 
into  visual  terms.  It  not  only  made  his- 
tory in  the  early  days  of  TV,  but  there 
is  now  talk  of  reviving  it  again  this  fall. 
And  luckily,  at  the  time,  it  paved  the 
way    for   the   biggest   break   of   all. 

It  was  in  1952  that  Dave  took  over 
his  present  assignment  as  host  and  emcee 
of  Today,  the  first  network  TV  show  to 
feature  news  and  special  events  at  an 
early  morning  hour.  In  addition,  Dave 
still  has  his  own  radio  show,  Friday 
With  Garroway.  Between  the  two  pro- 
grams, however,  the  relaxed  style  which 
has  brought  Dave  so  much  success  on 
the  air  allows  him  little  time  to  relax 
in  his  own  private  life.  For  the  truth 
is  that  the  easygoing  manner  is  actually 
the  effortless  performance  which  comes 
from  thorough  preparation  and  hard 
work.  Today  may  sound  informal,  but 
it   is    written    and    rehearsed    in   advance: 

"The  show  takes  all  my  waking  time," 
Dave  admits.  "I've  got  thirty  half-hours 
a  week  in  front  of  the  cameras,  and  then 
there's  the  business  incidental  to  the 
show — all  the  offshoots  and  odds  and 
ends  to  be  taken  care  of,  such  as  lunch- 
ing with  clients   and  that  sort  of  thing." 

As  a  consequence,  he  can't  help  feeling 
that  it's  just  as  well  that  he  leads  a 
bachelor  existence  at  the  moment.  It's 
not  that  Dave  particularly  enjoys  living 
alone.  It's  because  he  hasn't  much  of 
a  life  to  share  with  anyone.  Up  at  five 
in  the  morning,  and  in  bed  by  nine  or 
ten  at  night — the  rest  is  work.  He  is 
free  over  the  weekends,  of  course,  when 
he  sees  a  few  people,  catches  up  on  his 
reading,  or  visits  in  the  country.  But 
he's  just  as  likely  to  spend  the  entire 
time  in  bed  "just  looking  at  the  walls." 
All  of  his  old  hobbies — racing  cars,  fish- 
ing, drumming  and  golf — have  been  tem- 
porarily abandoned.  While  he  often  takes 
a  pretty  girl  to  dinner,  he  can  never  stay 
out  late.  "If  I'm  feeling  really  reckless," 
he  says,  "I  can  tear  around  till  ten." 

The  one  exception  is  a  charming  young 
lady  named  Paris — there's  always  time 
for  her,  whenever  she  can  come  to  New 
York  for  a  visit.  Paris  is  Dave's  ten- 
year-old  daughter,  who  lives  with  her 
mother    in    St.    Louis.     Eight    years    ago, 


his  one  attempt  at  marriage  ended  in 
an  amicable  divorce.  Adele  Dwyer,  his 
former  wife,  recently  re -married,  and 
all  parties  concerned  are  the  best  of 
friends.  Dave  misses  not  having  Paris 
with  him  all  the  time,  but  he  knows  that 
it's  best  for  her  to  have  the  regular 
family  life  which  her  mother  can  give 
her   and   he   cannot. 

Outside  of  this,  however,  Dave  has  no 
dissatisfactions  with  his  present  existence. 
It  is  significant  that  he  is  identified  with 
a  show  called  Today,  for  that  is  the  key- 
note of  his  philosophy  of  life.  As  he 
says,  "I  never  know  what  I'm  going  to 
do  tomorrow.  I  never  constrict  myself 
as  to  where  I  might  go."  By  living  com- 
pletely in  the  present,  Dave  takes  each 
day  in  his  stride,  making  the  most  of 
the  given  moment,  and  not  complaining 
about  what  happened  yesterday  or  might 
happen  tomorrow.  At  ease  with  himself, 
he  is  at  ease  with  the  world  about  him, 
so  that  the  famous  relaxed  manner  is  not 
a  mannerism — it  comes  sincerely  from 
within.  And  perhaps  the  best  expression 
of  it  comes  at  the  end  of  each  program 
when  Dave  raises  his  hand  in  a  kind  of 
blessing  and  says:    "Peace!" 

It's  only  one  word.  But  every  weekday 
morning,  some  four-and-a-half  million 
Americans    get   the    message. 


Forever  Near  Her  Heart 

(Continued  from  page  44) 
tree.     The    fireplace   was   bare,    the   elec- 
tricity turned  off,  the  five  cocker  spaniels 
boarded  with  friends. 

Desi  was  in  San  Francisco  with  his  band, 
playing  dance  music  in  a  hotel  ballroom 
decked  with  holly  and  "Merry  Christmas" 
streamers.  After  the  show  ended,  he  had 
Christmas  dinner  sent  to  his  room.  It  was 
not  a  large  Christmas  dinner — a  cheese 
sandwich  on  toast,  one  pickle,  and  a  cup 
of  coffee — but  he  didn't  have  much  appe- 
tite. He  was  remembering  Christmases  at 
home:  The  smell  of  suckling  pig  roasting 
on  a  spit,  the  way  he  and  Lucy  had  talked 
until  5  A.M.,  last  Christmas  Eve,  and 
opened  their  presents  just  as  it  was  turn- 
ing light. 

They  were  supposed  to  spend  this 
Christmas  together,  too,  this  Christmas  of 
1946,  but  they  didn't.  Lucille  Ball  was 
not  even  in  the  state  of  California.  She 
was  in  the  state  of  Washington.  She  had 
been  touring  in  a  play.  Three  days  before 
Christmas,  right  on  schedule,  the  play 
closed  down  for  the  holidays.  But,  that 
night,  an  unscheduled  thing  happened. 
The  "second  lead"  became  ill.  By  the  next 
day,  half  the  cast  was  stricken  with  the 
same  serious  influenza  virus.  By  Christ- 
mas, almost  everyone  connected  with  the 
play  was  in  a  hospital  somewhere  between 
Walla  Walla,  Washington,  and  Portland, 
Oregon. 

Miss  Ball  was  one  of  the  few  who  wasn't 
sick,  and  she  spent  Christmas  Day  walking 
the  corridors  of  several  hospitals.  When 
she  returned  to  her  hotel  room,  it  was  to 
look  at  the  luggage  she  had  bought  her 
husband  for  Christmas  and  then  to  cry  a 
little  because  she  couldn't  spend  Christmas 
with  him.  And  she,  too,  had  no  appetite 
that  night. 

She  could  have  gone  to  meet  Desi  in  San 
Francisco.  However,  as  she  explained  on 
the  telephone:  "There's  nothing  I  can  do. 
Some  of  them  are  pretty  sick,  and  they're 
away  from  home.     Desi,  I've  got  to  stay." 

"But,  honey,"  Desi's  voice  came  pleading 
over  the  wires,  "honey,  please,  it's  Christ- 
mas." 

"Desi,  I  just  can't  leave." 

"But.  .  .  ." 

In  the  end,  they  hung  up,  almost  angry 


''Who'd be//Q\/e.  /was  ever 
embarrassed  by  P/MPLE&P' 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 


SKIN-COLORED 

HIDES  PIMPLES  WHILE  IT  WORKS 

Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely 
improved  while  using  clearasil. 

Amazing  starving  action,  cleajrasil  actually 
starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the  oils 
that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  CLEARASlL's  anti- 
septic action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria  that 
can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored  to 
hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless  . . .  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 

America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication... because  CLEARASIL  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED  to 
work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or  money 
back.  5  9£  and  98e\  Atall  druggists.  GetCLE  ARASIL 
today.  (Available  in  Canada,  slightly  more.) 


'for  Quick  Relief 
Ask  your  Druggist  for 


DENT'S 


I00TH  GUM 
TOOTH  DROPS 
POULTICE 


Simple  Cartoons'' 


,j     A  book  everyone  who  likes  to  draw 
'-'should  have.  It  Is  free;  no 


obligation.  Simply  address 


rARTOONISTS'   EXCHANGE 
Dept.  596 Pleasant  Hill.  Ohio 

Extra       Here's  an  unusual  opportunity  to 
earn  extra  cash  fast  and  often. 
Cash         ^e  pay  *ke  highest  commissions 
to  thousands  of  part-time  sales- 
FciSt  men  who  help  us  take  orders  for 

magazine  subscriptions.  It's  easy 
to  do.  No  experience!  Rush  name  and  ad- 
dress for  FREE  money-making  information 
to:  Room  203,  e/o  Macfadden  Publications,  205 
East  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


Be  Your  Own  MUSICTeacher 

LEARN  AT  HOME  THIS  MONEY  SAVING  WAY 

Simple  as  A-B-C.  Your  lessons  consist  of  real  selections 
instead  of  tiresome  exercises.  You  read  real  notes — no 
"numbers"  or  trick  music.  Some  of  our  900,000  students 
are  band  LEADERS.  Everything  is  in  print  and  pictures. 
First  you  are  told  what  to  do.  Then  a  picture  shows  you 
how.  Soon  you  are  playing  the  music  you 
like.  Write  for  big  36-papce  illustrated 
Free  Book.  Mention  vour  favorite  instru- 
ment. U.  S.  School  of  Music,  Studio 
A206,    Port  Washington,    N.    Y. 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


12  NEW  TOWELS  only '1.00 

LARGE  SIZE!  Assorted  colors.  New!  Not  seconds.  Non- 
woven  COTTON  and  RAYON.  Monev-back  guarantee.  Sup- 
ply limited.  Order  Now!  R.  J.  HOMAKERS  CO..  Dept.  505, 
Box    264,    Farmingdale,    L.I.,    N.Y. 


Luxurious,  satin  finish  Wallet 
Size... 2'A x3%... STUDIO  Quality 
$«§    MONEY  BACK 
for      |      GUARANTEE 

GIVE  TO  FRIENDS,  CLASSMATES,  RELATIVES.   USE 
FOR  COLLEGE,  EMPLOYMENT,  PASSPORT  APPLI- 
CATIONS.  SEND  MONEY  AND  PHOTO  TO 

WALLET  PHOTOS,  BOX  Dl  7-65  HILLSIDE,  N.  J.N 


CORNS 


also  Calluses.  Quick,  easy,    _. 1  L    . 

and   economical.   Just  rub    rdflOVea  DY 

on.  Jars,  35 1,  60  ri.  At  your 
druggist.  Money  refunded 
if  not  satisfied.  Moss  Co., 
Rochester,  N.  Y. 


M0SC0 


FOR 


^jAtTH 


Brush  teeth  3  times  a  day 
—home  or  away!  Help 
prevent  tooth  decay  .  .  . 
refreshes  breath.  Carry 
toothbrush  kit  in  pocket, 
purse,  keep  in  desk. 
Ideal  for  travel.  Full-size 
folding  toothbrush,  tube 
of  Pepsodent,  in  plastic 
case  ( "cigarette- pack" 
size).  At  Dept., 
Drug  stores, 
Beauty  shops. 

Tote  Brush  Inc.,  Chicago  14  ^ 


Sfesg 


M 


latee"™. 


89 


DON'T 

PAY  MORE 

for  these 
high-quality  features! 


"SHAPE-INSURED". . .  miracle  fabric  interlining 
guarantees  its  shape— and  yours— for  the  life  of 
the  bra.  Retains  permanent  uplift  thru 
countless  washings !  Elastic 
gore  for  midriff  ease! 

No.  4077,  Broadcloth; 

Pink,  White. 

No.  5077,  Acetate  Satin; 

Pink,  White,  Black. 

AA  Cup  30-36;  A  32-38;  B  32-40;  C  34-44. 


$100 


1 


"CRADLE-CUP"  ..Divided  Strap-Action  relieves 
shoulder  strain... supports  and  "cradles"  gently 
but  firmly !  Elasticized  straps  and  diaphragm  . . . 
circle  stitching  tor  allure ! 

Style  4135.  White  Broad- 
cloth. Style  5135,  White 
Acetate  Satin.  A  Cup  32- 
36;  B  Cup  32-40;  C  Cup 
34-42 


$100 


90 


BRAS  AND  GIRDLES 
FOR  FIGURE-WISE  WOMEN! 

At  your  nearest  Variety  Store — 
the  smart  woman's  shopping  center! 


at  each  other.     That  was  Christmas,  1946. 

Lucille  Ball  told  this  story,  looking  at 
it  from  the  vantage  point  of  1955.  She 
stretched  out  in  her  chair  and  looked  at 
the  sun  like  a  woman  contented  with  her 
marriage  and  her  children  and  the  world. 

But  even  now  she  wouldn't  laugh  at  it. 
"It  wasn't  funny,"  she  said.  "That  Christ- 
mas night — that  miserable  Christmas  night 
— was  an  important  night  in  my  life.  In 
a  way,  spending  that  Christmas  away  from 
Desi  is  one  reason  why  we  are  so  happy 
today. 

"I  think  of  that  night,"  she  said,  "as  the 
point  of  no  return.  That's  what  airplane 
pilots  call  the  place  where  they  have  just 
enough  gas  left  to  turn  back  or  to  go  on 
to  their  destination.  And  they  know  that, 
if  they  don't  turn  back  before  they  reach 
the  point  of  no  return,  they'll  never  be  able 
to.  I  think  every  marriage  has  a  point 
of  no  return,  a  turning  point,  a  place  where 
you  have  to  make  the  right  decision — or 
else." 

She  might  have  said,  "A  point  where  the 
people  in  it  have  to  become  mature" — 
but  she  didn't  need  to.  Instead,  she  con- 
tinued: "I  sat  in  my  hotel  room  that  night 
and  thought  about  my  marriage  and  my 
career,  and  I  knew  I  had  to  make  a  deci- 
sion." 

.Lucy's  contract  with  M-G-M,  her  tour- 
ing, kept  her  tied  to  one  side  of  the  con- 
tinent, while  Desi's  work  kept  him  on  the 
other  side.  She  had  worked  hard  for  her 
career  and  she  thought  that,  if  her  contract 
was  broken,  she  would  never  work  again. 
But  the  constant  separations  were  wearing 
their  marriage  thin,  and  she  knew  it. 

"I  sat  in  my  hotel  room  and  thought 
about  those  separations.  For  years,  we 
had  been  passing  each  other  on  the  high- 
way, getting  an  hour  together  in  Chicago 
or  Des  Moines  between  trains,  or  five 
minutes  together  while  I  was  dressing  to 
go  to  the  studio  and  Desi  was  undressing  to 
go  to  bed.  We  had  had  six  years  of  this 
type  of  thing,  and  the  strain  was  beginning 
to  show.  We  weren't  a  marriage  any  more. 
We  were  like  a  rubber  band  that  is 
stretched  until  it  starts  to  break. 

"That  night,  I  thought  about  all  the  bad 
times,  the  mixed -up  plans,  the  way  I  felt 
going  home  after  work  when  Desi  was 
away  on  tour.  It  had  gotten  so  bad  that  I 
would  do  almost  anything — visit  friends, 
eat  a  late  dinner  out,  stay  at  my  mother's 
— to  keep  from  going  home  to  our  empty 
house. 

"And  it  was  worse  on  Desi  than  it  was 
on  me.  At  least  I  had  the  house,  the  dogs, 
and  our  families.  Desi  had  nothing  but  a 
hotel  room.  He  would  get  so  homesick,  he 
would  call  three  or  four  times  in  one  day 
— sometimes  just  to  ask  how  the  garden 
was  doing. 

"I  thought:  You  can't  have  a  happy  mar- 
riage unless  you're  together  some  of  the 
time.  I  ran  my  fingers  across  the  suit- 
case I  had  bought  him  and  remembered 
how  he  was  away  when  all  the  important 
little  things  happened  at  home.  For  ex- 
ample, we  were  so  proud  of  our  first 
watermelon  that  we  named  it:  Minnie  the 
Watermelon.  We  watched  Minnie  for 
months.  Then,  when  Minnie  was  finally 
ripe,  Desi  was  on  tour. 

"I  thought  back  further,  to  the  time  we 
started  to  get  a  divorce,  and  how  that, 
too,  in  a  way  was  caused  by  my  being 
alone  and  having  to  deal  with  things  my- 
self 

The  Arnaz  attempt  at  a  divorce  lasted 
only  a  few  months,  and  it  started  the  last 
year  of  the  war.  In  a  way,  it  was  the 
house  that  caused  it  all.  The  house  had 
just  been  redecorated,  and  it  sparkled  with 
white  drapes,  a  thick  white  rug,  and  new 
furniture. 

It  was  a  windy  spring  day,  and  the  peo- 


ple next  door  were  having  their  roof 
painted.  They  called  Lucy  up  and  told 
her  that  the  painters,  being  in  the  neigh- 
borhood, would  do  her  roof  for  a  low  price. 
It  sounded  all  right,  and  Lucy  called  Desi, 
who  was  away,  to  check. 

If  she  thought  it  was  all  right,  he  said 
hesitantly,  he  would  take  her  word.  Yes, 
she  said,  she  thought  it  was  all  right. 

So  Lucy  okayed  the  job,  set  the  men  to 
work,  and  left  for  a  shopping  tour  in 
town.  Unfortunately,  the  men  knew  little 
about  their  job.  They  slopped  red  paint 
over  the  walls,  the  cats  and  the  dogs,  and 
the  strong  wind  carried  the  paint  over  the 
rest  of  the  yard. 

When  Lucy  returned  at  9:30  that  night, 
the  first  thing  she  noticed  was  that  her 
white  drapes  were  a  pale  red.  The  dogs 
ran  to  greet  her.  The  dogs  were  all  the 
same  pale  red  color.  So  was  the  floor 
where  they  had  rolled,  the  furniture  they 
had  sat  on,  the  rugs  they  had  walked 
across. 

By  morning  light,  the  damage  was  even 
more  catastrophic.  The  trees,  shrubs,  and 
chickens  were  all  pale  red.  The  grass  and 
flowers  were  not  only  red — they  were 
very,  very  dead. 

To  have  such  chaos  repaired  in  the  last 
year  of  the  war  was  a  difficult  thing.  The 
man  who  sanded  the  paint  off  the  floors 
had  never  used  a  sander  before — but  he 
didn't  tell  Lucy  this.  When  he  was 
through,  the  floors  had  to  be  refinished. 

It  took  two  months  to  completely  repair 
the  house.  Tempers  were  short,  nerves 
frayed.  Desi's  visits  home  were  anything 
but  peaceful.  In  the  end,  the  chaos  was 
too  much  for  everybody.     And  Desi  left. 

He  was  not  gone  long.  That  quarrel  was 
patched  up,  and  so  were  the  others,  but 
they  left  scars.  And  they  were  all  caused 
by  strain  and  separation  and  the  fact  that 
the  telephone  is  a  good  medium  for  urgent 
messages  but  not  a  good  way  to  settle 
misunderstandings. 

And  now  Lucille  Ball  sat  in  her  hotel 
room  and  thought  about  all  this  and 
more.  ... 

One  time,  Desi  was  in  New  York  for  a 
band  engagement,  and  he  had  told  her  he 
would  call  her  at  the  studio.  She  waited 
for  his  call,  but  she  was  through  work 
early.  So  she  decided  to  go  home.  She 
told  the  studio  operator  to  have  Desi  call 
her  at  home. 

When  he  called  the  studio,  she  had  left. 
But,  when  he  called  the  house,  she  had  not 
arrived.  Then  he  had  to  go  back  on  stage. 

When  Lucy  got  home,  she  waited  for 
his  call.  She  had  a  bowl  of  soup  and  some 
crackers  and  brushed  her  hair.  Then  she 
waited  some  more.  Finally,  she  called  the 
theater.  He  had  just  left.  She  called  his 
hotel.  He  had  not  arrived,  but  the  hotel 
operator,  whose  name  was  Evelyn,  would 
tell  him  that  his  wife  had  called.  Lucille 
looked  at  her  watch.  It  was  getting  late, 
and  she  had  a  six-o'clock  call  the  next 
morning  at  the  studio. 

"Please  tell  him  I  called,"  she  told 
Evelyn,  "and  that  I'm  going  to  bed  now." 

Desi  arrived  at  the  hotel  and  called  his 
wife  again.  Evelyn  refused  to  put  the  call 
through. 

"She's  gone  to  bed,"  Evelyn  said. 

Desi  got  angry.  "Put  that  call  through," 
he  ordered. 

"Okay,"  Evelyn  said.  "But  you'll  be 
sorry." 

The  call  woke  Lucy  up.  Desi's  first 
words  were:   "Where  in  blazes  were  you?" 

"I  got  off  early,"  Lucy  said. 

"You  say  you're  going  to  be  somewhere, 
you  should  be  somewhere." 

Lucy  hung  up. 

Desi  called  again.    Lucy  hung  up  again. 

The  next  call  was  from  Evelyn.  "Look," 
Evelyn  said.     "Maybe   I   explained  things 


wrong.  Maybe  it's  my  fault.  Now,  why 
don't  you  just  call  him  back?" 

"No,"  Lucy  said. 

Evelyn  got  Desi  on  the  line,  anyway. 

Desi  hung  up. 

They  patched  that  one  up,  too.  It  was 
more  difficult  to  patch  their  newspaper 
troubles.  Desi  went  out  twice  with  Lucy's 
sister  when  she  came  to  New  York.  The 
columnists  neglected  to  find  out  who  the 
girl  was.  They  merely  printed  divorce 
rumors.  At  the  same  time,  in  Hollywood, 
Lucy  dined  once  with  her  sister's  husband. 
The  Hollywood  stories  about  the  divorce 
were  even  more  detailed. 

Another  telephone  mix-up  was  the  prob- 
lem of  the  car.  It  was  right  after  the  war, 
and  Desi  was  on  tour.  He  had  ordered  a 
car  as  a  surprise,  and  Lucy  didn't  know 
about  it.  She  didn't  even  know  how  hard 
it  was  to  get  cars  that  year. 

Desi  had  been  waiting  six  months  for 
the  car,  and  it  arrived  while  he  was  on 
tour.  Lucy  took  one  look  at  the  car  and 
said,  "I'm  sorry.     We   can't  keep  that." 

"Can't  keep  it?"  the  man  said,  looking 
at  the  beautiful  red  car. 

"No,"  she  said.  "It's  the  wrong  color.  It 
clashes  with  my  hair." 

"Well,"  the  man  said,  "you'd  better  dye 
your  hair." 

Miss  Ball  grinned.  "I  made  him  take 
the  car  back,  anyway.  And,  when  Desi 
called  from  Chicago  the  next  night,  I  told 
him  all  about  it.  I  won't  say  that  he  was 
unhappy.  That  would  be  a  mild  word 
for  it.  He  spent  the  next  day  on  the 
phone  apologizing  to  the  man  and  trying 
to  get  the  car  back." 

Miss  Ball  brought  herself  back  to  1955 
and  looked  up  at  the  sun  again.  "Those 
are  the  things  I  spent  that  Christmas  think- 
ing about.  And,  late  that  night,  I  came  to 
a  decision.  You  know  what  that  decision 
was,"  she  said.  "Having  a  career  was 
fun — during  the  day.  But  the  day  ended  at 
six  o'clock,  and  it  wasn't  fun  to  go  home 
to  an  empty  house  and  an  empty  life. 

"Believe  me,"  she  said,  "when  I  asked 
for  a  release  from  my  contract,  I  didn't 
know  that  all  this" — her  arm  drew  a  circle 
taking  in  all  the  buildings  and  the  stages 
and  the  streets  that  belong  to  Desilu  Pro- 
ductions— "that  all  this  was  going  to  hap- 
pen. But  I  didn't  care.  I  had  made  a 
choice.  And,  if  I  were  asked  to  make  the 
same  choice  today,  I  would  make  it  the 
same  way." 

Lucy  smiled  again,  thinking  perhaps  of 
her  two  children  and  her  husband  and 
their  life  together. 

"Luckily,"  she  said,  "I'm  not  asked  to 
choose.  We're  separated  now  only  by  the 
length  of  a  golf  course  and" — this  time 
she  laughed  out  loud,  looking  up  at  the 
office  where  Desi  was  working — "and,  if 
I'm  energetic  enough,  we're  not  even  sep- 
arated by  that!" 


COVER  QUEEN 

for  July   is  the   lovely   songbird   of 
George  Gobel's  great  comedy  show 

PEGGY  KING 

Don't    miss    this    full-color    portrait 

...   or   the   full-length    stories 

about  Peggy  herself  .  .  .  and 

BOB  CUMMINGS    •    JUNE  HAVOC 

and    MITZI    GREEN    in 

July  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  June   7 


STOP  PAIN  INSTANTIY 

COMBAT  INFECTION 
PROMOTE  HEALING 


WITH  SOOTHING 


Campho-Phen/que 

■    (PKONOUNCED  CAM.FO-FIN-E EK)\ 

USE  IT  FOR 

FEVER  BLISTERS 

COLD  SORES,  GUM  BOILS 

Not  only  "do  fever  blisters  heal  faster,  but  the  same 
thing  happens  when  Campho-Phenique  is  used  on 
cold  sores,  gum  boils.  Wonderfully  soothing  too, 
for  minor  burns,  poison  ivy,  itching  of  insect  bites. 
And  Campho-Phenique  is  a  highly  effective,  pain- 
relieving  antiseptic  for  minor  cuts  and  scratches 
from  paring  knives,  can  openers,  tin  cans,  etc. 
Used  on  pimples,  Campho-Phenique  helps  prevent 
their  spread  and  re-infection. 


™'^',ffi^a»wssjss! 


ffv^ywS&W**. 


I  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train-  I 
|  \  ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
1  \  instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for 
I  \  previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded.^ 
I   1  Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  I 

1  WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-24 
'  2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois t 


■     ■     |    V   •      7 

WOMSJ 
ONLY< 


If  you  need  more  money... 

Up  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cos- 
metics, your  neighborhood. 
Samples    and    details 
supplied.  Write  to: 

Guaranteed  by^v'     HAMY  mm>  r,K- 
Housekeeping  )    „  .Studio  Girl- 

»vV'     Hollywood  Cosmetics 
4o™iistowi>Q|en(ja|e>  calif..  DeptTS-65 


FREE  SALES  KIT  HELPS 
YOU  MAKE  BIG  MONEY  FAST! 

Rush  your  name  and  address  today  for 
amazing  new  sales  kit.  It's  absolutely  FREE. 
Gives  you  startling  information.  Tells  you 
how  to  make  big  money  fast  and  often  by 
helping  us  take  orders  for  magazine  subscrip- 
tions in  your  neighborhood.  It's  easy!  No  ex- 
perience needed!  FREE  kit  works  like  magic 
to  put  dollars  in  your  pocket!  You  don't 
invest  a  penny  of  your  money  now  or  any 
time.  We  supply  everything  you  need  free. 
Act  now.  Paste  this  ad  on  a  post  card.  Rush 
name   and   address   for   FREE   sales   kit   to: 

Subscription   Agents   Division, 

TV  RADIO   MIRROR 

205  East  42  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


WANTED 

Men  &  Women  Everywhere  who  have  a  story 
to  tell.  No  writing  experience  necessary — just 
use  your  own  words.  Vast  TV  market  crying 
for  new  story  situations.  Yours  can  net  you 
$500  or  more.  Get  the  Facts. 

TV  WRITERS  GUILD 
2875C  Glendale  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  39,  Calif. 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


JT1 

iW  •  /■      Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
I     ing  to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New 
I     /    I      Booklet — "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
■   A  ■     HOME   USE."    It   tells   about    Varicose 
W  M   ^|      Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
^fi  ^^kjH      used  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
HUttaa      success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave. 
Dept.  F-47.    Milwaukee   12,  Wisconsinl 


Work, 

,Play 
In  Comfort 

Without  Nagging  Backache 

Nagging  backache,  loss  of  pep  and  energy,  head- 
aches and  dizziness  may  be  due  to  slowdown  of  kidney 
function.  Doctors  say  good  kidney  function  is  very 
important  to  good  health.  When  some  everyday  con- 
dition, such  as  stress  and  strain,  causes  this  im- 
portant function  to  slow  down,  many  folks  suffer 
nagging  backache— feel  miserable.  Minor  bladder 
irritations  due  to  cold  or  wrong  diet  may  cause 
getting  up  nights  or  frequent  passages. 

Don't  neglect  your  kidneys  if  these  conditions 
bother  you.  Try  Doan's  Pills— a  mild  diuretic.  Used 
successfully  by  millions  for  over  50  years.  It's  amaz- 
ing how  many  times  Doan's  give  happy  relief  from 
these  discomforts— help  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes 
and  filters  flush  out  waste.  Get  Doan's  Pills  todayl 


91 


5 DRESSES 

For 

A 

NOW  READY!   GORGEOUS,  SMART, 
MODERN   STYLE  DRESSES  FOR  ALL 
;;*  OCCASIONS! 


Romantic  Adventurer 


92 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as- 
sortment of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety  of 
luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons,  cot- 
tons, gabardines,  woolens,  silks, 
etc.  Expensive  dresses — original 
value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cards!  S  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.  809 

(One  of  the  oldest  and  largest  mail  order  houses  of  its  kind 
103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y. 

Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below 
with  Free  Button  Cards.  Enclosed  find  $1  de- 
posit, balance  C.O.D.  plus  postage.  Money  re- 
turned if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and 
foreign  orders  accepted. 
Circle  Size: 

Girl's  Sizes  7,  8.  10,  12,  14  are  5  for  $2.75 
Junior  Miss  Sizes  9,  11,  13,  15  are  5  for  $3.75 
Sizes  12,  14,  16,  18,  20.  38,  40,  42,  44,  5  for  $3.75 
Size.  i4,A.\6'/1.18'/,,20y,,22y„24'/1.S  for  $3.7S 
Extra  Large  Sizes  46,  48,  50,  52  are  S  for  $4.75 
□  Check    here   to   save   C.O.D.    fee.    Send   full 
amount  with  2  5(*  postage. 
□  Please    send  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY 


Name 

Address 

City 


L^City 


Zone        State 


(Continued  from  page  61) 
and  has  gray  eyes  which  can  either  meet 
one's  gaze  steadily  or  twinkle  in  a  mis- 
chievous grin.  His  friend  and  former  col- 
league, Hugh  Downs,  now  on  NBC-TV's 
Home,  gives  this  characterization:  "Jim 
conforms  to  a  man's  idea  of  what  a  man 
ought  to  be.  He  has  steel  nerves  and  you 
can't  fluster  him.  Whatever  the  situation, 
he  reacts  instantly,  instinctively,  and 
smoothly.  You  might  even  say  he  has  the 
male  equivalent  of  feminine  intuition.  And 
he  usually   turns   out  to   be  right." 

Professionally,  Jim  finds  his  adventures 
these  days  on  Hawkins  Falls,  the  Chicago- 
originated  NBC-TV  daytime  drama  of 
small-town  life.  Jim  describes  his  role  as 
Mitchell  Fredericks:  "I  was  on  the  lam 
when  I  blew  into  this  town.  I  was  the 
honest  attorney  who  refused  to  defend 
gangster  clients.  Next,  I  sort  of  drifted 
around,  making  up  my  mind  what  to  do. 
Now  I  run  the  newspaper,  so  again  I'm 
all  mixed  up  in  everything." 

Like  Jim  himself  (who  has  been  mar- 
ried) Mitchell  Fredericks  is,  at  this  writ- 
ing, unattached  and  eligible.  Jim  says,  "In 
Hawkins  Falls,  Dr.  Corey  beat  me  out 
when  we  were  both  courting  Lona,  so  I 
guess  Bill  Barrett,  who  scripts  the  show, 
has  been  trying  to  make  it  up  to  me 
ever  since.  I'm  always  interested  in  some 
pretty  girl." 

Jim  has  seen  that  kind  of  situation  be- 
fore— with  variations.  He  makes  a  com- 
parison. "Of  course,  I've  never  yet  got  the 
girl,  but  I  sure  have  fun  trying.  That's 
more  than  the  movies  do  for  me.  All  I 
ever  got  in  a  Western  was  a  horse — or  a 
sock  in  the  jaw.  I've  lost  more  fights  to 
guys  half  my  size.  .  .  ." 

Losing  such  filmed  fights  occurred  when 
Jim  took  a  leave  of  absence  from  Haw- 
kins Falls  to  go  back  to  Hollywood  to  make 
what  he  calls  "a  flock  of  Westerns."  In 
every  one,  he  was  cast  as  the  villain.  Ap- 
pearance of  the  films  on  television  brings 
him  such  greetings  as,  "Boy,  did  Kit  Car- 
son clean  up  on  you  last  night!" 

Jim  meets  such  sallies  with  an  easy  grin 
and  a  recollection  of  a  stunt  man's  wage 
scale.  "I  hope  they  realize  that  every  time 
I  bite  the  dust,  it  was  a  two-hundred-dol- 
lar fall."  He  also  insists  that  it  was  his 
ability  to  fight  and  ride  which  first  got 
him  into  the  movies.  "It  is  a  lot  easier  for 
a  director  to  teach  an  athlete  a  little 
acting  than  to  teach  an  actor  a  lot  of 
athletics." 

The  explanation  is  over-modest,  for 
Jim — who '  was  born  in  Kansas  City  and 
graduated  from  Rockhurst  College — drew 
his  first  rave  notices  for  work  in  school 
plays.  He  was  a  radio  announcer  in  Kan- 
sas City,  St.  Louis  and  at  several  Califor- 
nia stations.  Columbia  Pictures  signed  him 
and  started  building  him  up  in  minor 
roles.  One,  as  a  priest,  he  recalls  with 
special  pleasure.  He  got  it  when  a  casting 
director  saw  a  picture  of  Jim's  favorite 
brother,  Father  John  Bannon,  who  teaches 
history  at  St.  Louis  University.  They  look 
enough  alike  to  be  twins.  "We've  had  a 
bit  of  a  turn-about,"  says  Jim.  "Now  John 
is  having  his  chance  at  television,  doing 
a  series  of  history   lectures." 

Jim  played  the  lead  in  one  mystery,  but 
it  was  the  Westerns  which  captured  his 
fancy.  "I  had  been  around  livestock  all 
my  life.  I  could  ride  a  horse  and  handle 
a  steer.  In  school,  I  had  been  an  athlete, 
so  the  stunt  stuff  gave  me  no  trouble.  They 
put  me  in  a  few  epics  and  I  decided  the 
Western  was  just  the  thing  for  me." 

Young  America  agreed  with  him  when 
he  won  stardom  as  "Red  Ryder."  Jim  re- 
calls, "As  you  do  in  Westerns,  I  guess  I 
played  Red  Ryder  more   off-camera  than 


I  did  on-set.  Got  a  kick  out  of  it,  too. 
For  one  thing,  there  was  that  car.  .  .  ." 

The  sensible,  grown-up  reason  for  "that 
car"  was  the  promotion  campaign  which 
sent  Jim  to  make  personal  appearances  in 
cities  where  the  film  series  was  playing. 
The  private  reason,  one  suspects,  was  that 
Jim  enjoyed  it  almost  as  much  as  his 
young  fans  did.  The  vehicle  started  out  as 
a  Buick  Roadmaster  convertible,  but 
turned  into  quite  a  wagon  by  the  time 
Jim  installed  tooled-leather  upholstery, 
used  an  antique  long-barrelled  Colt  re- 
volver as  a  shift  lever,  and  replaced  the 
conventional  door  handles  with  chromium- 
plated  horseshoes.  The  crowning  touch  was 
a  pair  of  longhorn-steer  horns  spreading 
out  as  a  hood  ornament. 

Jim  still  chuckles  over  its  effect.  "I'd 
drive  up  in  front  of  a  theater  and,  within 
half  an  hour,  every  kid  in  town  had  come 
a -running.  'Course,  I  dressed  kind  of  quiet, 
too.  Just  a  big  wide  hat,  gambler's-stripe 
pants  and  the  wildest  shirt  I  could  get." 

1  oday,  he  would  just  as  soon  forget  the 
role — living  with  it  off  the  set,  as  well  as 
on,  got  to  be  too  much  of  a  good  thing — 
but  people  at  WNBQ,  where  Hawkins 
Falls  originates,  either  hold  fond  mem- 
ories of  their  own  Saturday -afternoon 
movies  or  recall  somewhat  less  enraptured 
hours  spent  escorting  small  fry  to  the 
flicks.  Jim  takes  as  much  of  a  ribbing  over 
his  hero  role  as  he  does  his  later  villain's 
drubbings  by  Gene  Autry,  Kit  Carson, 
Wild  Bill  Hickok,  et  al.  One  wag  even 
revised  the  usual  studio-door  sign  which 
reads:  "Do  not  enter  when  red  light  is  on." 
Light  was  crossed  out  and  Ryder  sub- 
stituted. 

The  role  can  still  have  advantages,  too. 
Last  Christmas,  Jim  headed  for  California. 
His  car,  loaded  with  luggage  and  gifts,  was 
conventional,  but  his  driving  clothes — 
levis,  boots  and  a  red  Hudson's  Bay  jacket 
— were  unintentionally  "Red  Ryder."  Stop- 
ping for  the  night  in  a  small  Kansas  town, 
he  worried  about  possible  theft  and  de- 
cided to  ask  the  local  police  where  to 
park.  Striding  up  to  the  desk  sergeant,  he 
began,  "I've  got  a  problem — " 

The  officer's  recognition  was  instant. 
"What's  your  trouble,   Mr.   Bannon?" 

They  solved  it  fast.  The  sergeant  not 
only  kept  the  car  safely  in  the  lockup 
overnight  but  he  also  arranged  to  have 
the  town's  Cadillac  agency  open  early  to 
service  it.  The  agency  included  a  wash 
job,  with  their  compliments. 

Jim's  large  collection  of  Western  clothes 
can,  upon  occasion,  turn  into  a  commu- 
nity asset  at  Chicago  NBC.  While  Ben 
Park,  the  producer  for  Hawkins  Falls,  was 
also  working  on  the  Eddy  Arnold  film 
series,  he  insisted  on  historically  authentic 
costumes.  When  Park  specified  shirts  were 
not  to  have  wide-spread  collars,  Joan 
King,  the  wardrobe  girl,  found  the  order 
hard  to  fill  until  Jim  turned  up  with  two. 

His  own  sartorial  trademark  on  Haw- 
kins Falls  is  the  turned-up  collar.  The 
style  has  become  so  exclusively  his  that 
a  visiting  actor  who  inadvertently  dupli- 
cated it  was  told  by  the  director,  "Turn  it 
down.  That's  the  Bannon  treatment." 

Whether  the  scene  calls  for  sport  clothes 
or  the  conservatively  tailored  dark  suit 
Jim  wore  when  he  was  best  man  at  the 
wedding  of  Lona  and  Dr.  Corey,  his  per- 
sonal wardrobe  can  usually  supply  every- 
thing but  a  trench  coat.  "I've  bummed 
trench  coats  from  everybody  on  the  set, 
including  stagehands,"  he  says.  "My  own 
is  too  light-colored  for  the  camera." 

Jim  has  no  trouble  borrowing,  for  he  is 
as  popular  in  person  as  he  is  in  the 
script.  Like  the  show's  heroine,  Bernardine 


Flynn,  and  the  producer,  Ben  Park,  Jim 
is  thoughtful,  considerate  and  friendly.  The 
mood  they  set  helps  make  Hawkins  Falls 
an    easy,   happy   company. 

Evidence  of  this  high  morale  is  the  good- 
natured  kidding  which  goes  on.  Jim  takes 
the  brunt  of  the  cowboy  gags,  but  also 
gives  as  good  as  he  gets.  He  calls  seventy- 
eight-year-old  Butler  Manville  by  the  un- 
venerable  title  of  "Bubbles"  and  claims 
Mr.  Manville  is  his  best  audience  for  a 
rib.  Pretty  Marie  Petrillo  is  "No-Talent" 
and  the  bestowal  of  this  nickname  marked 
her   official   acceptance   into  the   clan. 

It  happened  shortly  after  the  young 
actress  came  to  the  cast.  Daughter  of  the 
music  czar,  James  J.,  Marie  realized,  as 
well  as  anyone  else,  that  the  name  "Petril- 
lo" can  be  formidable  in  any  television 
studio.  To  some  people,  she  seemed  aloof, 
but  Jim  diagnosed  her  trouble  as  shyness. 
Seeing  her  eating  alone,  one  noon,  he 
shouted  half  the  length  of  a  cafeteria, 
"Just  because  we  don't  play  instruments 
doesn't  mean  you  can't  associate  with  us. 
Come  over  here  and  sit  down."  Delighted, 
Marie  joined  the  group  and  the  ice  was 
broken.  She  since  has  become  a  frequent 
date  of  Jim's. 

When  the  Hawkins  Falls  people  come 
to  dinner  at  his  bachelor  apartment,  Jim 
proves  an  excellent  chef.  Characteristic- 
ally, he  says  it  is  all  due  to  his  fine  maid. 
"If  she  didn't  come  in  to  do  the  dishes, 
I'd  turn  into  the  best  restaurant  patron 
in  town.  Since  she  takes  care  of  them,  I'm 
the  great  culinary  experimenter.  I  pick 
up  a  cookbook  and  wonder,  'What  kind  of 
trouble  can  I  get  into  today?'  Mostly,  I 
like  to  try  curries  and  stuff  like  that."  He 
has  a  terse  appraisal  of  his  own  skill: 
"They  haven't  carried  out  any  bodies  yet." 

Jim  has  a  deft  hand,  too,  for  hobbies. 
While  in  California,  he  grew  interested  in 
woodcarving  and  making  miniature  fur- 
niture. Now,  he  prefers  ceramics  and  made 
all  the  cufflinks  and  tie  pins  he  gave  the 
crew  last  Christmas.  "You  can  whittle  all 
day,"  he  says,  "and  maybe  all  you  end 
up  with  is  a  bunch  of  toothpicks.  But  I 
like  working  with  colors  and,  in  this 
enameling,  I  see  immediate  results.  I  also 
have  room  for  it.  I  can  set  up  my  enamels, 
and  the  dentist's  kiln  I  use  to  fire  the  stuff, 
atop  a  card  table,  and  I'm  in  business." 

His  real  enthusiasm  is  hunting.  A  favor- 
ite spot,  within  reach  whenever  he  has  a 
few  days  off,  is  the  Teal  Lake  Lodge,  in 
Wisconsin,  operated  by  Mary  and  Nelson 
Ross,  who  are  Bernardine  Flynn's  sister 
and  brother-in-law.  The  Rosses  regard 
Jim  as  part  of  the  family.  Recently,  when 
Jim  was  the  center  of  much  commotion 
in  the  Hawkins  Falls  plot,  Mary  Ross  wrote 
him,  "You're  getting  into  too  much  trouble 
down  there.  You'd  better  come  back." 

He  hopes  sometime  to  hunt  mountain 
lions  in  Utah  or  Arizona.  "But,"  he  re- 
marks, "I've  been  trying  to  get  away  for 
five,  six  years.  It  begins  to  look  as  though, 
by  the  time  I  do,  the  lions  will  be  extinct." 

His  vigorous  independence  carries  into 
all  situations.  When  a  bout  with  an  ulcer 
put  him  into  the  hospital,  he  proved  to  be 
what  can  mildly  be  described  as  a  "re- 
luctant patient."  Sharing  his  room  was  a 
much  more  acquiescent  man  who  was  ut- 
terly amazed  by  Jim's  cavalier  treatment 
of  rules,  regulations  and  authority.  "Hon- 
estly, Mr.  Bannon,"  he  said  one  day,  "I 
don't   know   how   you   get  away  with  it." 

"Easy,"  said  Jim.  "I  was  born  a  colonel 
and  never  got  to  be  a  private." 

Self-sufficient  though  he  may  seem,  Jim 
holds  no  brief  for  single  blessedness.  He 
defines  his  present  romantic  temperature: 
"I'm  just  setting  back  and  looking  at  the 
moment."  Then  his  eyes  twinkle.  "But  in 
the  spring  a  young  man's  fancy  lightly 
turns.  .  .  .  Well,  who  knows?  Maybe  by 
June  it  will  have  turned  again." 


New!  DOCTOR'S 
EODORANT   DISCOVERY 

Now  safely  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day! 


Proved  in  comparison  tests  made  by  a 
doctor.  A  deodorant  without  M-3,  tested 
under  one  arm,  stopped  odor  only  a  few 
hours.  Yet  New  Mum  with  M-3,  under  other 
arm,  stopped  odor  24  hours!  M-3  clings  to 
skin,  destroys  odor  bacteria  all  day  long. 


New  MUM  with  M-3  won't  irritate  normal 
skin  or  damage  fabrics.  Originally  a  doc- 
tor's formula,  New  Mum  contains  no  harsh 
astringents,  will  not  block  pores  or  rot  fab- 
rics. Creamier,  won't  dry  out  in  jar.  Use 
New  Mum  daily. 


New  MUM 


I® 

cream  deodorant 
with  long-lasting  M-3   "* 

(hexachlorophene) 


Another  fine  Product 
of  Bristol-Myers 


Left:  Padded  Curves.  Low-cut  %  cups  lined  with 
foamette,  with  cushioned  underwiring  and  light 
boning.  NYLON  with  embroidered  cups.  $2. 
ONE    FULL    YEAR  Right:  sP'ral"stitch'  in  the  "?*•  rounder  fashion 


shape.  Cotton  broadcloth.  $1.50. 

W.  T.  GRANT  CO.  •  520  STORES  COAST  TO  COAST 


93 


THIS   GORGEOUS  YEARBOOK 
CONTAINS  YOUR    FAVORITE 

TV-Radio  Stars 


The  gorgeous  new  TV-RADIO  ANNUAL  is 
now  available  to  you.  This  exciting  1955  year 
book  is  better  than  ever!  It  covers  all  the 
Television  and  Radio  events  of  the  year. 
You'll  enjoy  the  hundreds  of  new  illustra- 
tions and  you'll  be  simply  thrilled  to  read 
the  behind-the-scenes  stories  of  all  your 
favorite  stars.  Below  is  a  brief  description 
of  this  really  important  Annual: 

NEWS  EVENTS  OF  THE  YEAR— The  behind-the-scenes 
stories  of  Eve  Arden  and  Brooks  West  •  Anne  Jeffreys  and 
Robert  Sterling  •  Florence  Halop  •  Bob  Smith  •  Paul 
Dixon  •  Steve  Allen  and  Jayne  Meadows  •  Wally  Cox  • 
Jack  Webb  •   Milton  Beiie. 

NEW  SHOWS  OF  THE  YEAR— Stars  new  and  old,  who 
helped  make  recent  history.  Robert  Q.  Lewis  •  Sid 
Caesar  •  Imogene  Coca  •  Florian  ZaBach  •  Edgar  Bergen 

•  George  Gobel  •  Jack  Paar  •  Betty  White  •  Michael 
O'Shea  •  James  Dunn  •  William  Bishop  •  Eddie  Mayehoff 

•  Gil  Stratton  Jr. 

WHO'S  WHO   ON— Breakfast  Club  •  Father  Knows  Best 

•  Beat  The  Clock  •  Two  For  The  Money  •  The  Garry 
Moore  Show  •  Your  Hit  Parade  •  The  Halls  of  Ivy  •  Our 
Miss  Brooks  •  Masquerade  Party  •  My  Favorite  Hus- 
band •  Fibber  McGec  and  Molly  •  Lassie  •  The  Big 
Payoff  •  The  Jackie  Gleason  Show. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES — Arthur  Godfrey  •  Ozzie  and 
Harriet  Nelson  •  Ralph  Edwards  •  Bert  Parks  •  Ten- 
nessee Ernie  Ford  •  Warren  Hull  •  Bill  Cullen  •  Roy 
Rogers  •  Gene  Autry  •  Red  Buttons  •  Jack  Bailey  • 
Jack  Barry  •  Ed  Sullivan  •  Art  Linkletter  •  Donald 
O'Connor  •   Jimmy  Durante   •   Tom  Moore. 

GORGEOUS  NEW  COLOR  PORTRAITS  OF  THE  STARS 

— Thrilling  4-color  photographs  of  Liberace  •  Lucille 
Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz  •  Eddie  Fisher  •  Gale  Storm.  These 
full  page,  true-to-life  portraits  are  so  unusual  that  you 
will  want  to  frame  each  one  of  them! 

PLUS — Pictures  and  biographies  from  the  most  beloved 
daytime  dramas  on  radio  and  TV. 


ONLY   50c— WHILE  THEY   LAST 

This  terrific  Annual  is  a  sell-out  each  year. 
No  wonder — everybody  wants  a  copy  and 
only  a  limited  number  are  printed.  Only  50c 
at  your  favorite  magazine  counter.  Or,  if  more 
convenient,   mail   coupon   with   50c   TODAY. 


94 


TV-RADIO  MIRROR 


Dept.  RM-655 


205  E.  42  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  TV-RADIO 
ANNUAL  1955.  I  enclose  50c. 


Name. 

PI.  .,'..     F 


Address 

City State. 


Age  of  Discovery 


(Continued  from  page  43) 
Brooklyn.  Warren  was  then  just  a  snub- 
nosed,  bright-eyed  kid  who — up  to  that 
moment — would  have  blinked  and  said, 
"An  actor?  Me?  Are  you  trying  to  kid 
someone?" 

That  day,  Mrs.  Tracy,  a  neighbor  whose 
daughter  was  a  dancer,  called  to  Warren 
in  the  street  and  asked  him  to  walk  along 
with  her  to  his  home.  He  was  quite  will- 
ing, thinking  she  might  want  to  get  his 
mother's  permission  to  take  him  to  the 
movies.  Mrs.  Tracy  had  been  watching 
the  little  fellow  with  the  wavy  brown  hair 
and  the  alert  eyes  under  sweeping  dark 
lashes,  the  dark  brows  that  turned  up  at 
the  ends  with  a  quizzical  quirk  to  give  the 
boyish  face  an  unexpected  touch  of  humor. 
(They  still  do,  these  nine  years  later.) 
Now,  instead  of  taking  him  to  a  movie, 
she  thought  he  had  a  chance  to  be  in  one. 

Mrs.  Tracy  knew  that  Warners'  was  cast- 
ing small-boy  roles  for  the  motion  picture 
version  of  "Life  with  Father."  Would 
Mrs.  Berlinger  let  her  little  boy  try  out? 
Mrs.  Berlinger  said,  "Why  not?  Let's  see 
what  he  can  do — if  he  would  like  to." 

"Sure,"  said  Warren,  dreams  beginning 
to  take  shape  quickly.  And  he  thought 
how  he  could  get  to  be  a  big  movie  star, 
like  Roy  Rogers  or  Hopalong  Cassidy,  and 
have  a  gun  and  a  horse  of  his  very  own. 

Warren  had  his  screen  test,  and  his  first 
big  heart-break.  Talent  scouts  in  each 
city  made  their  choice  of  boys,  and  he  won 
easily  in  New  York  in  his  age  group.  But 
in  the  end  they  chose  a  West  Coast  boy. 
Warren  went  back  to  cops-and-robbers 
with  the  other  kids,  his  dreams  of  glory 
in  the  Old  West  temporarily  clouded. 

Only  temporarily,  however.  Through 
the  audition,  Warren  had  aroused  the  in- 
terest of  a  Mrs.  Bedford  at  Warners',  who 
recommended  him  to  Oscar  Hammerstein 
for  "Annie,  Get  Your  Gun,"  the  Broad- 
way-bound stage  play  which  was  getting 
ready  to  open  out-of-town.  Warren  was 
picked  as  one  of  four  boys — which  finally 
narrowed  to  three — two  to  appear  regular- 
ly in  the  show  and  one  as  alternate  and 
understudy.  He  became  a  regular  and 
joined  the  cast  in  Philadelphia. 

It  was  Warren's  first  time  on  any  stage, 
anywhere.  He  had  never  even  been  in  a 
school  play,  and  he  would  have  considered 
dramatic  lessons  as  nothing  short  of  "sis- 
sy," if  anyone  had  so  much  as  mentioned 
the  subject.  Cops-and-robbers,  cowboys- 
and-Indians,  were  the  stuff  his  dreams  had 
been  made  of  up  to  then. 

M  ow,  at  seventeen,  an  experienced  young 
actor  of  television  and  stage,  and  a  high 
school  senior  (his  best  subject,  U.  S.  his- 
tory; his  hardest,  French),  Warren  is  get- 
ting ready  to  enter  Columbia  University 
in  New  York  and  work  toward  a  Bachelor 
of  Fine  Arts  degree,  then,  later,  a  Master's. 
And  he  plans  to  get  in  some  good  solid 
work  in  the  dramatic  arts  course,  because 
he  loves  what  he's  doing,  wants  to  keep 
doing  it  better,  and  looks  forward  to  a  life 
in  show  business,  maybe  later  as  a  direc- 
tor— though  he  wants  to  act  in  The  Secret 
Storm  a  long,  long  time. 

"This  kid  Jerry,  whom  I  play  on  tele- 
vision, is  a  boy  who  got  off  to  a  bad  start," 
Warren  explains.  "He  had  tough  breaks 
with  his  parents.  His  mother  was  killed 
in  an  automobile  accident,  and  Jerry 
wanted  to  punish  the  people  in  the  car 
responsible  for  her  death.  His  mind  got 
so  twisted  that  he  actually  believed  it  was 
his  duty  to  avenge  his  mother.  Jerry's 
father  has  made  some  serious  mistakes, 
too,  and  the  boy  has  had  a  rough  break  all 
around.  I  want  to  see  him  pull  out  of  this 
thing  and  become  a  decent  citizen  and  a 
I  happy  guy. 


"Peter  Hobbs,  who  is  Peter  Ames  in  the 
show,  is  a  great  guy  who  treats  me  as  if  I 
were  really  his  son,"  Warren  continues. 
"Contrary  to  her  role,  Haila  Stoddard— 
who  plays  Pauline  Harris,  my  dead  moth- 
er's sister — is  a  real  wonderful  person. 
And  Barbara  Joyce — who  is  Jane  Ed- 
wards, the  woman  my  father  loves — is  as 
sweet  as  all  get-out. 

"My  sisters  on  the  show  are  Jean  Mow- 
ry,  who  is  Susan,  and  Jada  Rowland,  who 
is  Amy,  and  they're  both  swell.  We  have 
a  lot  of  fun  when  we're  not  rehearsing. 
Amy's  the  youngest,  so  we  all  try  to  make 
her  happy.  But,  no  matter  how  much  we 
joke  and  roughhouse  before  we  go  on, 
when  it  comes  to  work  we're  in  dead  earn- 
est. Even  Jada.  Kids  grow  up  fast  in 
show  business,  because  it  teaches  a  sense 
of  responsibility.  We  can't  let  anyone 
down,  and  each  person's  work  is  important, 
no  matter  how  small  the  part." 

Sometimes  people  ask  Warren  if  it 
wasn't  hard  for  him  to  be  on  the  stage, 
and  now  on  television,  during  the  years 
he  was  growing  up.  "The  only  truthful 
answer  I  can  give  is  that  I  have  enjoyed 
every  minute  of  it.  If  I  were  not  an  actor, 
I  would  like  to  be  just  an  average  kid  go- 
ing to  high  school  and  getting  ready  for 
college,  probably  with  an  engineering 
course  on  my  mind.  I  like  working  with 
my  hands,  and  figuring  things  out.  I  might 
have  been  thinking  about  joining  my 
father's  construction  business  one  day, 
with  my  brother  Larry,  who  is  seven  years 
older  than  I  am.  Larry  thinks  my  being 
on  TV  and  the  stage  is  kind  of  crazy,  I 
suppose,  although  he  seems  to  be  a  little 
proud  that  I  can  do  it.  My  mother  used 
to  introduce  me  as  'My  son  Warren,  the 
actor,'  but  I  persuaded  her  to  leave  out 
'the  actor'  part.  'Let  people  find  that  out 
for  themselves  later,  if  they're  interested,' 
I  told  her.  So  now  she  doesn't  do  that 
any  more." 

With  a  work  schedule  like  Warren's, 
there  isn't  much  time  for  girls  and  formal 
dating,  but  two  Sunday  evenings  a  month 
are  dedicated  to  this  important  subject. 

"I  don't  want  to  get  married  until  I  am 
twenty-five,"  he  hastens  to  say.  "Not  un- 
til I  know  all  about  girls."  Then  he  grins 
at  the  rashness  of  that  remark.  "I  mean, 
until  I  understand  girls  better,  if  I  ever 
do!  Anyhow,  I  know  I  should  be  much 
more  mature  before  I  even  think  of  mar- 
riage." 

The  reason  he  sets  apart  two  Sundays, 
and  only  two,  is  a  double  one:  First,  he 
has  to  catch  up  on  homework  at  least 
every  other  weekend.  Second,  he  likes  to 
give  a  girl  a  really  nice  time,  which  usu- 
ally means  some  cab  fares,  dinner  in  a 
good  restaurant  (he  himself  prefers  Chi- 
nese food  for  such  occasions),  a  downtown 
movie,  or  going  somewhere  to  dance,  or  a 
legitimate  show,  if  there  is  a  Sunday  night 
performance.  All  this  knocks  out  a  fel- 
low's budget.  Theater  friends  often  give 
Saturday-night  parties  after  the  show  and 
he  sometimes  stops  by,  for  an  hour  or  so. 
But  that's  about  all  the  social  life  he  has 
time  for. 

Being  a  product  of  modern  times,  War- 
ren thinks  girls  ought  to  "go  Dutch"  with 
boys  unless  it  is  a  formal  date  pre-ar- 
ranged. "All  of  us  had  a  big  argument 
about  this  on  the  set  one  day — whether  a 
boy  should  pay  for  a  girl's  lunch  or  a 
Coke,  or  something  like  that,  when  they 
just  happen  to  be  together.  We  fellows 
think  the  only  time  there  should  be  no 
question  about  our  footing  the  bill  is  when 
we  actually  take  a  girl  out.  But  the  girls 
don't  seem  to  go  for  that."  He  grins,  and 
shrugs,  as  if  to  imply  that  already  he  finds 
the  ways  of  women  quite  inscrutable. 


Like  most  of  his  friends,  he  believes  it's 
a  lot  more  fun  to  date  in  couples.  "Two 
couples  are  just  right.  A  friend  of  yours, 
and  a  friend  of  hers.  You  have  another 
boy  to  talk  to  part  of  the  time,  and  the 
girl  has  another  girl  along."  Most  of  the 
girls  like  this  arrangement,  too. 

He  likes  girls  to  be  themselves,  natural 
and  feminine.  "A  girl  should  be  a  girl, 
and  a  boy  a  boy,  and  that  way  everything 
works  out  wonderfully,"  is  the  way  he  puts 
it,  with  more  wisdom  than  he  realizes. 

When  you  ask  about  his  favorite  type  of 
girl,  Warren  gives  you  that  grin  again,  as 
if  to  remind  you  that  he  is  really  only  a 
high-school  boy  and,  therefore,  it's  a  little 
silly  to  have  too  many  definite  ideas  yet 
about  women.  Then  he  answers  quite 
seriously. 

"I  like  a  girl  for  her  personality.  That's 
all.  She  doesn't  have  to  be  good-looking. 
She  doesn't  have  to  be  an  actress,  or  any 
kind  of  career  girl.  I  think  I  might  pre- 
fer a  home  girl,  although  I  don't  have 
much  chance  to  meet  girls  outside  the  the- 
atrical profession  any  more." 

One  of  Warren's  regrets  is  that  being 
an  actor  has  taken  him  away  from  the  old 
contacts  with  both  girls  and  boys  in  his 
neighborhood.  He  had  to  leave  Public 
School  208  in  Brooklyn  and  enroll  in  Pro- 
fessional Children's  School,  where  classes 
are  adapted  to  the  working  hours  of  the 
students.  He  works  now  when  his  old 
friends  are  ready  to  go  out  and  have  fun. 
Warren  hopes  that  attending  college  will 
widen  and  broaden  his  list  of  friends,  as 
it  undoubtedly  will,  even  though  he  will 
have  to  stagger  his  classes  in  order  to 
work  in  his  acting  jobs. 

An  ordinary  day  for  him  runs  some- 
thing like  this:  He  is  up  by  8:15  A.M. 
(He  probably  got  home  a  little  after  mid- 
night the  night  before,  after  the  curtain 
came  down  on  "Anniversary  Waltz,"  and  he 
had  a  sandwich  and  Coke  and  watched 
Steve  Allen  on  television  until  Steve  went 
off  the  air.  Then  maybe  he  did  a  littie 
homework  before  turning  in.)  He  is  due 
at  school  in  midtown  Manhattan  at  9:45 
and  stays  there  until  2: 15,  except  on  mati- 
nee days  and  days  he  is  on  the  television 
show,  when  he  gets  a  chance  to  sleep  a 
little  late  and  do  his  school  work  at  home. 
He  always  gets  in  a  short  nap  before  din- 
ner. After  dinner,  he's  due  at  the  the- 
ater. 

Once  a  week  he  crowds  in  a  singing 
lesson.  ("I'm  a  high  baritone,  or  an  alto 
tenor,  I  can't  decide  which.")  The  sing- 
ing is  to  broaden  his  talents  for  possible 
musical  roles  later  on.  He  loves  music, 
listens  a  lot  to  records  by  Eddie  Fisher 
and  Frank  Sinatra,  likes  the  songs  they 
pick.  He  would  like  to  sit  for  hours 
watching  TV.  ("I'm  on  it,  and  I  love  it. 
But,  ironically,  the  only  chance  I  get  to 
do  much  looking  is  after  midnight  or  on 
Sunday.") 

He  used  to  play  Softball,  but  there  isn't 
much  time  for  that  now.  He  swims  when 
he  can,  wants  a  small  car  of  his  own  to  go 
jaunting  in  on  Sundays,  to  beaches  and 
to  the  country.  His  stamp  collection, 
started  by  his  brother,  is  now  neglected. 
"I'll  pick  it  up  again  some  day,"  he  says 
hopefully.  "My  map  collection,  too.  I'm 
fascinated  by  maps." 

Warren's  first  TV  appearance  was  an  in- 
terview on  the  Howdy  Doody  show  when 
he  was  about  eight  or  nine,  before  they 
even  had  the  Peanut  Gallery.  He  has 
been  on  You  Are  There  and  Personal 
Story,  but  considered  himself  a  stage 
actor  (except  for  one  movie,  "The  Win- 
dow," and  some  commercial  shorts)  until 
The  Secret  Storm  happened  in  early  1954. 

Before  Secret  Storm,  he  played  the 
young  lad,  Bibi,  in  "The  Happy  Time," 
starting  in  the  Broadway  cast  and  going 
on    tour    with    the    show    all    across    the 


a  medication 
that  really  works! 

r  photogr 

/       ' 

/   k 


As  indicated  by  actual  tests  and  color  photographs 


FROM  THIS TO  THIS 

in  just  lO  days! 

Exciting  results  of  actual  skin  tests  show  the  new  antibiotic  UTOL  is  the  answer  pimple 

sufferers  have  been  waiting  for.  Wonderful  Utol  comes  in  a  true  skin  color,  just  like  a  powder 

base,  and  helps  to  hide  ugly  pimples  while  allowing  the  miracle  antibiotic  in  Utol  to  help  clear 

up  pimples  faster.  Amazing  Utol  is  bringing  thousands  of  boys  and  girls  and  adults  *assr"  *„, 

the  help  they've  longed  for  —  giving  them  new  ._J^aaaa8rt 

poise  and  confidence.  Sold  at 

all  drug  stores  on  a  money  .       ~ 

back  guarantee... there  is  no  B8«/ 

product  like  Utol  for  fast 

pimple  relief.  ^  ..«**  i'*l'  ~~  A  McKesson  Product 


your  hair  looks 
^B      young  again1 

Ever  notice  the 
radiance  of  young 
hair?  Its  sheen  says 
"young."  Noreen  color 
rinse  gleams  hair  in  about 
three  minutes  and  brings  out 
the  natural  beauty  and  color 
without  changing   your  hair  so 
much  it  causes  talk.  Noreen  is  safe, 
simple-to-use  for  blending  streaks, 
evening  up  color,  toning  grays. 

Among  the   14  lively  but  subtle 
colors  there's  one  for  you,  to  coax 
golden  lights  into  dull 
blonde  hair,  put  a  glow 
in  brown,  make  black 
blacker.  So  nice, 
because  it's  so 
natural. 


COLOR 
HAIR 
RINSE 


T 
V 
R 

95 


96 


/F  YOU  SUFFER 

&A  JAM    of  HEADACHE 

mil*  NEURALGIA 

NEURITIS 


MUEF 


the 


way 


physicians  and  dentists  recommend. 

HERE'S  WHY  .  .  .  Anacin  is  like  a  doctor's 
prescription.  That  is,  Anacin  contains  not 
just  one  but  a  combination  of  medically 
proved  active  ingredients.  No  other  product 
gives  faster,  longer-lasting  relief  from  pain 
of  headache,  neuralgia,  neuritis  than  Anacin 
tablets.  Buy  Anacin®  today  I 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 


A  few  drops  of  OUTGEO®  bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  ingrown  nail.  OUTGRO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OUTGBO  is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

Now  this  new  healing  substance  is  offered 
in  ointment  form  under  the  name  of 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  stores 
—money  back  guarantee,         *Res- u- s  Pat- off- 


ENLARGEMENT 

Plus  12  Keepsakes 


Glamorous  black  and  white  enli_  „ 
ments  8x10  inch  on  double  weight 
portrait  paper  and  gold  tooled  leath- 
erette frames  only  67c  ea.  FREE!  If 
you  order  3  enlargements  you  get 
one  extra  8x10  free  plus  12  small 
size  keepsakes  free.  But  you  must 
hurry.  To  get  the  free  gifts,  rush 
favorite  photos  or  films  at  once.  Be 
sure  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes, 
etc.  for  oil  coloring  information. 
Your  originals  safely  returned. 

Send  no  money.  Pay  postman  plus  C.O.D.  State  choice 
of  frames,  brown  or  maroon.  Mail  photos  today.  Act  now, 
Dept.  718,  Marvel  Art,  1140   Roosevelt  Road.  Chicago    12,  Illinois 


b,h 


frnW 


■UnTFB  0  R I A  5 1 S 

v-^bt^v-^i  (SCALY    SKIN     TROUBLE) 

'MAKE  IHE  ONE  "  »  D€  r  m  Ol  L 

SP0T6 

TEST  .  m 


Prove  it  yourself  no  matter 
how  long  you  have  suffered 
or   what   you   have   tried. 
Beautiful    book  on  psori- 
asis   and    Dermoil    with 
amazing       true       photo- 
graphic proof  of  results 
sent  FREE.  Write  for  It. 


SEND    FOR 

GENEROUS 
TRIAL 
SIZE    * 


Don't     mistake     eczema 

for    the    stubborn,    ugly 

embarrassing    scaly    skir 

disease       Psoriasis.      A| 

ply       non-staining       De 

moil.     Thousands    do    for' 

scaly     spots     on     body     or 

scalp.  Grateful  users  often 

afler     years     of     suffering 

report      the      scales      have 

ynne.   the  red  patcheK  gradually  dls- 

appeared   and   they   enjoyed   the   thrill  of  clear  skin 

again.   Dermoil   Is  used  by  many  doctors  and   Is  backed  by  a 

positive  agreement  to  Hve  definite  benefit  In  2  weeks  or 
money  )>■  refunded  wtttiout  question.  Send  xoc  (stamps orcoin) 
for  generous  trial  bottle  to  make  our  famous  "One  Spot 
Test""  Test  It  for  yourself.  Results  may  surprise  you.  Write  to- 
day  for  vour  test  hold...  Oiutlon:  Use  only  .-is  directed.  Print 
ns'e  plain!"  Don't  de'a".  Sold  by  Li<j<iett  and  Wal()recn  Drug 
store,  and  other  leading  Druogjsts.  LAKE  LABORATORIES 
Box  3025.   StrMhmoor  Station,  Dept.  9804,  Detroit  27,  Mich. 


United  States.  "For  the  first  time  I  saw 
my  own  country,"  he  says,  "and  I  learned 
a  lot.  My  mother  traveled  with  me  and, 
when  we  played  Chicago,  my  father  came 
on  for  a  few  weeks." 

It  was  in  "The  Happy  Time"  that  War- 
ren learned  what  it  is  to  "break  up"  in  the 
middle  of  a  scene.  The  actor  who  played 
his  uncle  mispronounced  Warren's  charac- 
ter name  during  a  tender  scene,  and  called 
him  "Blibli"  instead  of  "Bibi."  Warren  was 
only  thirteen  then,  and  for  a  minute  he 
thought  he  would  disgrace  himself  by  not 
being  able  to  go  on,  but  he  recovered  and 
held  his  laughter  in  check.  "Cats  have 
strolled  in  unexpectedly,  mice  have  darted 
across  the  stage,  bells  have  rung  when 
they  shouldn't  and  failed  to  ring  when 
they  should,  and  I  learned  to  take  these 
in  stride.  Peter  Hobbs,  who  plays  my 
dad  on  the  TV  show,  once  had  to  cope  with 
an  alarm  clock  that  went  off  unexpectedly 
while  we  were  doing  a  scene,  and  I  hope 
I  can  always  be  as  quick-witted  as  he  is. 
He  managed  to  grab  the  clock  and  throw 
it  off  the  set  without  letting  it  seem  like 
an  interruption  of  our  scene.  But  the 
most  dreadful  experience  I  ever  had  was 
the  time  I  'went  up'  in  my  lines — forgot 
them — and  the  other  actors  had  to  cover 
up  for  me  until  I  got  back  on  the  beam. 
They  consoled  me  by  saying  it  happens  to 
every  actor  once — and  once  is  enough!" 

Warren's  biggest  thrill  to  date  was  the 
time  in  Chicago  when  he  had  dinner  with 
another  actor  from  "The  Happy  Time"  and 
a  drama  critic  from  one  of  the  papers. 
At  five  minutes  to  eight,  they  suddenly 
realized  the  hour.  A  police  car  picked 
them  up  at  the  restaurant  and  shot  them 
through  traffic  with  siren  screaming.  But, 
in  spite  of  this,  the  half-hour  signal  had 
been  called  before  they  arrived  at  the 
theater.  Warren  isn't  sure  yet  it  wasn't 
worth  being  scolded  for,  although  he 
doesn't  want  that  to  happen  again,  either. 

From  "The  Happy  Time,"  he  went  into 
"The  Other  Foot,"  an  off-Broadway  play 
with  Thomas  Mitchell.  When  he  walked 
in  to  audition  for  that  role,  Mr.  Mitchell 
was  standing  in  the  middle  of  the  room, 
jiggling  some  change  in  his  pockets.  He 
looked  at  Warren,  said,  "Take  off  your 
coat."  Warren  did.  "Sit  down  in  that 
chair."  Warren  did.  "Get  up."  Warren 
did — feeling  pretty  clumsy  and  embar- 
rassed by  this  time.  And  he  didn't  know 
whether  to  laugh  or  be  angry  when  Mr. 
Mitchell  turned  to  the  author  of  the  play 


and  remarked,   "There's  something  ridic- 
ulous about  this  boy!" 

It  was  an  expression  of  approval.  It 
meant  that  Warren  had  a  quality  they 
were  looking  for,  a  natural  flair  for  com- 
edy they  wanted  in  the  role.  So  he  got 
that  job  easily.  Then  he  went  into  "Ber- 
nadine"  and,  after  that,  into  "Take  a 
Giant  Step."  "Anniversary  Waltz"  fol- 
lowed in  due  course. 

A  flood  of  fan  letters  come  in  from  girls 
all  over  the  country,  mostly  in  response 
to  his  appearances  on  The  Secret  Storm. 
Nice  letters,  mostly.  They  ask  for  his 
photograph.  They  want  to  know  the 
color  of  his  eyes  and  hair  (hazel-gray 
eyes,  dark  brown  hair).  His  height 
(5'6")-  What  kind  of  clothes  he  likes  best 
(casual:  sweaters  and  slacks  around  home; 
gray  suits,  tweeds;  no  loud  shirts  or  ties 
or  socks — he  tries  to  match  them  up  but 
doesn't  think  he  does  a  very  good  job  of 
it;  one  black  suit  for  dress,  although  the 
fellows  rib  him  about  it — he  thinks  black 
is  conservative  and  he  doesn't  go  for  any- 
thing flashy). 

Girls  sometimes  recognize  him  on  the 
street — more  and  more  everyday,  as  a 
matter  of  fact.  They  have  seen  him  on 
television  or  on  the  stage.  "Mostly  they 
recognize  me  from  The  Secret  Storm  and 
they  are  shy,  and  sort  of  hold  back.  I 
think  it's  natural  to  have  a  certain  shy- 
ness at  our  age.  But,  when  they  say  hello 
to  me,  I  like  it." 

One  girl  he  met  at  a  party  didn't  like 
him  at  all  at  first,  because  she  identified 
him  so  closely  with  Jerry  Ames — who,  at 
that  point  in  the  story  of  The  Secret  Storm, 
was  stirring  up  a  lot  of  trouble  for  every- 
one. He  tried  to  convince  her  that  he 
wasn't  really  like  that,  but  it  took  him  a 
long  time.  "It  made  me  feel  bad,  because 
I  liked  her,"  he  says. 

The  attitude  around  his  neighborhood, 
however,  hasn't  changed  since  Warren 
played  cops-and-robbers  with  the  other 
kids  in  the  street.  The  neighbors  seem  to 
like  having  an  actor  in  their  midst,  and  his 
family  is  pleased  with  his  success.  As  for 
Warren  himself,  he  is  quite  content  to  be 
an  average  kid  who  got  a  chance  to  do 
something  different  but  wouldn't  have 
been  unhappy  just  going  to  school  in  Flat- 
bush  and  looking  forward  to  college  and 
being  a  Dodger  fan,  which  of  course  he  is. 

"They're  going  to  win  the  pennant  this 
year,"  he  predicts,  grinning  like  any  good 
Brooklyn  boy  rooting  for  the  home  team. 


Head  in  the  Stars 


(Continued  from  page  55) 
There,  but  for  the  grace  of  God,  go  I.  .  .  . 

She  was  in  her  teens  when  she  stumbled 
upon  the  line  in  Plato:  "Love  is  the  desire 
for  the  everlasting  possession  of  the  Good, 
and  all  men  desire  the  Good." 

"It  set  my  imagination  on  fire,"  Kather- 
ine  recalls.  "From  that  time  on,  love  in 
the  impersonal  sense   became  my   creed." 

It  was  a  line  written  by  an  old  Greek 
philosopher,  dreaming  of  Utopia.  But  a 
young  girl  in  Alhambra,  California,  some 
two  thousand  years  later,  can  also  dream 
of  an  ideal  world.  And  maybe  that  ex- 
plains why  she  was  going  to  be  a  great 
writer.  If  you  don't  find  what  you  want 
in  this  world,  you  create  a  world  of  your 
own,  a  world  where  everlasting  goodness 
can  truly  exist. 

More  than  the  goodness,  however,  what 
she  really  wanted  was  love.  For  Kath- 
erine's  parents  were  divorced,  and  the 
hurt  in  her  childhood  stems  from  this. 
She  not  only  wanted  love,  she  wanted  the 
everlasting  possession  of  it — which  is  se- 
curity. But  she  was  too  young  to  know 
this,  and  too  inexperienced  to  understand 


that  people  sometimes  fear  the  very  thing 
they  want  most.  It  was  a  strange  creed, 
for  a  healthy  young  girl,  but  by  making 
love  impersonal,  she  had  removed  the 
hurt  from  it.  And,  by  desiring  the  ever- 
lasting possession  of  the  Good,  she  was 
completely  safe.  She  had  fallen  head- 
over-heels  in  love  with  the  unattainable. 

Her  creed  of  impersonal  love,  however, 
manifested  itself  in  a  sincere  desire  to 
help  others.  By  the  time  she  was  eighteen, 
Katherine  was  already  Dramatic  Director 
of  the  Alhambra  Playground.  Here  she 
directed  the  children  in  original  plays 
which  she  wrote  herself.  And  her  love 
couldn't  have  been  so  impersonal,  because 
the  kids  were  crazy  about  her.  After  see- 
ing a  pageant  which  she  produced  on  a 
shoestring,  the  playground  supervisor  al- 
lotted five  thousand  dollars  to  stage  a  big 
production  the  following  season. 

"He  believed  in  me,"  Katherine  says — 
still  amazed,  still  grateful. 

For  their  five  thousand  dollars,  the 
people  of  Alhambra  got  a  combination 
play  and  pageant — with  a  cast  of  two 
hundred  children — which  Katherine  wrote, 


produced  and  directed  by  herself.  Because 
of  her  success,  she  was  engaged  as  a 
writer  by  a  major  Hollywood  studio.  But 
she  only  remained  two  months.  Some- 
thing even  more  wonderful  had  happened 
the  year  before,  when  she  had  taken  five 
girls  from  the  playground  to  see  Walter 
Hampden  act  on  the  stage.  .  .  . 

Walter  Hampden  is  still  a  fine  figure  of 
a  man,  playing  kindly  old-gentleman  parts 
in  the  movies  and  TV.  But,  in  those  days, 
he  was  Cyrano  de  Bergerac.  He  was 
Hamlet.  To  the  young  girl  in  the  balcony, 
he  was  a  god!  For  there,  in  a  man,  was 
the    physical    embodiment    of    the    Good. 

"Oh,  my  head  was  so  in  the  stars!" 
Katherine  sighs. 

This  was  a  severe  case  of  hero  worship! 
Though,  at  the  moment,  Walter  Hampden 
was  still  as  unattainable  as  any  of  the 
many  daydreams  Katherine  constantly 
conjured  up,  there  was  always  the  wild 
hope  that  she  could  actually  meet  him. 
Oh,  just  to  go  backstage  .  .  .  talk  to  him 
.  .  .  maybe  even  shake  his  hand.  This  all 
might  be  ...  if  it  weren't  for  the  stage 
manager  who  kept  saying:   "Absolutely  no!" 

o  omehow,  Katherine  managed  to  hide 
backstage.  "I  wouldn't  have  had  the  nerve 
to  do  it  if  I  had  been  alone,"  she  recalls. 
"But  with  five  girls  waiting  outside — well, 
you  can  accomplish  a  lot,  if  you're  put  up 
to  it." 

At  midnight,  her  hero  came  out  from 
his  dressing  room.  All  Katherine  can  re- 
member of  that  fateful  meeting  is  that 
Mr.  Hampden  asked  if  she  were  Irish.  She 
said  yes,  she  was — forgetting  for  the  mo- 
ment the  half  of  her  that's  Scotch.  It  must 
have  been  the  right  answer.  He  agreed 
to  let  her  read  for  him  next  day. 

Next  day  she  read.  It  didn't  stop  Mr. 
Hampden  from  continuing  on  tour  with 
his  company.  But  it  didn't  stop  Katherine, 
either.     Her  letters  followed  him. 

"You  should  have  seen  them,"  Katherine 
blushes.  "All  transport  and  hero-worship!" 
But  they  worked.  After  a  year,  Walter 
Hampden  wrote  to  her,  inviting  her  to 
join  his  company.  It  didn't  matter  that 
she  had  a  career  mapped  out  for  her  in  a 
Hollywood  studio.  At  a  word  from  her 
hero,  she  dropped  everything.  Hamlet 
needed  her.  Cyrano  had  sent  for  her. 

"Actually,"  she  says,  "he  probably  just 
wanted  to  stop  those  letters." 

She  moved  to  New  York,  but  her  first 
season  with  Walter  Hampden  was  mostly 
spent  on  tour.  During  the  summer,  she 
was  engaged  as  leading  lady  for  the  Barter 
Theater  in  Virginia.  Then,  returning  to 
New  York,  she  continued  in  the  theater 
and  broke  into  radio. 

But  she  had  outgrown  hero-worship  as 
naturally  as  she  had  outgrown  her  teens. 
And,  like  all  people  on  the  stage,  she  had 
come  to  prize  reality  as  the  one  luxury. 
She  still  desired  the  Good,  but  she  was 
no  longer  afraid  of  love.  She  was  ready 
to  have  it  attainable.  .  .  . 

Katherine  describes  Paul  Y.  Anderson 
as  "a  great  and  good  man."  When  they 
met,  he  was  Washington  correspondent  for 
The  St.  Louis  Post-Dispatch — a  Pulitzer 
Prize  winner.  They  married,  and  all  at 
once  Katherine  found  the  love  she  had 
been  looking  for.  But,  after  a  year  and  a 
half,  her  husband  met  a  tragic  death. 

"It  took  me  seven  years  to  get  over  it," 
Katherine  says. 

Returning  to  New  York,  desperate  to 
forget  herself  in  work,  she  set  a  gargan- 
tuan task  for  herself.  It  took  her  entire 
capital  of  five  hundred  dollars  to  do  it, 
but  she  dramatized,  illustrated,  and  worked 
out  in  verse-choir  Vachel  Lindsay's  "The 
Congo."  It  was  produced  in  Madison 
Square  Garden  for  The  Greater  New  York 
Fund,  and  then  on  radio's  famed  Columbia 
Workshop.   Then,  faced  with  the  necessity 


of  making  a  living,  she  returned  to  the 
theater,  where  she  played  Queen  Guine- 
vere in  the  revival  of  "A  Connecticut 
Yankee,"  Death  in  Somerset  Maugham's 
"Sheppy,"  Mrs.  Taylor  in  George  Kelly's 
"The  Deep  Mrs.  Sykes,"  the  Mayor's  wife 
in  Ferenc  Molnar's  "A  Miracle  in  the 
Mountains,"  and  the  bigot  in  "The  Grey- 
Eyed  People."  In  addition  to  all  this,  she 
became  well  known  in  radio,  playing  in 
such  shows  as  Against  The  Storm,:,  Right 
To  Happiness,  The  Kate  Smith  Show,  and 
Ellery  Queen.  Then  she  broke  into  TV, 
where  she  has  been  seen  on  Krajt  TV 
Theater,  Armstrong  Circle  Theater, 
Comedy  Hour  and  Studio  One. 

A  high  point  in  Katherine's  professional 
career  came  last  summer,  when  Columbia 
Pictures  needed  an  actress  for  a  part  in 
the  new  movie,  "Tight  Spot."  It  was  the 
role  of  a  policewoman  who  befriends  Gin- 
ger Rogers  and  finally  gives  her  life  for 
her.  It  was  not  unusual  that  they  sent  for 
Katherine.  What  was  unusual  is  that  they 
had  remembered  her  from  a  screen  test 
seen  more  than  three  years  before. 

But,  in  those  years  following  her  hus- 
band's death,  her  career  held  little  mean- 
ing for  her.  Katherine's  drive  had  never 
been  for  success,  it  had  been  for  love.  But 
now,  even  the  impersonal  variety  seemed 
unattainable.  Loving  humanity  meant  help- 
ing humanity.  And,  ever  since  her  days 
at  the  Alhambra  Playground,  she  had 
dreamed  of  being  a  teacher  with  a  school 
of  her  own.  She  would  teach  dramatics, 
because  that  was  what  she  knew  best. 
But,  remembering  some  of  her  own  teach- 
ers, who  had  been  too  "theoretical  and 
silly"  to  really  be  of  help,  she  had  deter- 
mined to  get  actual  experience  first — in 
life,  as  well  as  the  theater.  Well,  she  had 
gotten  the  experience,  but  now.  .  .  . 

"I  don't  think  someone  who  hasn't  satis- 
fied his  own  ambitions  is  ready  to  teach," 
Katherine  says.  She  had  become,  from  her 
own  point  of  view,  the  sort  of  person  for 
whom  it  would  be  impossible  to  run  a 
school  of  her  own.  For  it  is  Katherine's 
philosophy  of  life  that  each  of  us  is  "two 
different  people."  No,  not  good  and  evil 
(since  "all  men  desire  the  Good"),  but 
optimsitic  and  pessimistic.  Our  optimistic 
self,  of  course,  is  our  "better  self."  And, 
when  our  better  self  is  in  control,  the 
Good  is  possible.  We  have  the  strength  to 
put  it  into  practice. 

IVatherine  knows  now  that  "the  whole 
business  of  life  is  to  learn  to  be  happy." 
An  unhappy  person — such  as  Margot 
Finchley,  for  instance — is  no  good  to  her- 
self or  to  anyone.  And  what  is  happiness? 

"Dear  old  Polonius,"  she  says,  remem- 
bering her  "Hamlet,"  "I  think  he  put  it 
best — 'This  above  all:  To  thine  own  self 
be  true.' " 

That  takes  courage.  "But  every  un- 
happy thing  that  you  rise  above,"  she  re- 
minds you,  "makes  you  that  much 
stronger." 

And  then,  we  are  not  alone.    No  one  is. 

"Belief  in  God — that's  the  whole  secret 
of  having  the  will  to  live." 

But  it  had  taken  Katherine  a  long  time 
to  learn  that  secret.  She  had  kept  search- 
ing through  the  years — searching  for  the 
Good.  And  then  one  day,  she  suddenly 
understood.  The  Good  all  men  desire  is 
God.    And  God  is  Love.  .  .  . 

Then  she  remembered  something  her 
husband  had  said,  when  she  had  asked 
him,  once,  if  he  believed  in  God.  "No," 
he  had  replied,  "don't  you  know  that,  if 
I  had  believed  in  God,  I  would  have  spent 
my  whole  life  serving  Him?" 

And  that  is  why,  one  day,  Katherine 
Anderson  will  have  her  own  school.  She 
knows  now  that  "the  thing  you  want  in 
your  heart  to  do  is  the  thing  that  God 
wants  you  to  do." 


4|4a  antizyme 

fS&HT     Tooth  Paste 

FREE! 

when  you  buy  regular 
591  PRO  Tooth  Brush 

Look  for  the  special  combination  package. 


Antizyme  stops  the  major  cause  of  tooth 
decay  continuously,  12  to  24  hours  in  9  out 
of  every  10  cases  tested.  Many  people 
report — "not  a  single  cavity  in  over  two 
years"  after  using  Antizyme. 

This  offer  of  a  free  tube  of  Antizyme 
with  a  59<  PRO  Tooth  Brush— either 
tufted  or  PRO  "59"— may 
mean  new  dental  health 
for  you.  PRO  Tooth  Brushes 
massage  gums  better, 
polish  teeth  brighter. 


The  best  is  always  a  PRO 

PRO-PHY-LAC-TIC    BRUSH    CO. 

Division  of  The  Lambert  Company,  Florence,  Mass. 

Thrilling  New  Massage  Cream 
Contains  PC-11.  Acts  Instantly  to 

DRY  UP  SKIN 
BLEMISHES 

From  Both  Oily  Skin  and 
External  Causes! 

Have  you  tried  in  vain  to  get  rid 
of  oily  pimples,  "hickies,"  other 

t  externally  caused  skin  blemishes  ? 

Bk  c7  T  well.  you  never  had  PC-1 1  be- 
'  tH^b*- "''■•  fore!  That's  POM PEIAN'S  name 
I  1  M»m  W  for  Hexachlorophene.  Wonder- 
ful discovery  of  science  helps  dry  up  such  skin 
blemishes!  Acts  instantly  to  clean  out  dirt,  helps 
remove  blackheads  like  magic!  Goes  on  face  pink — 
rolls  off  muddy  gray! 

GENEROUS  TRIAL  TUBE— 10  CENTS! 
Send  name,  address   and   10  cents  to  POMPEIAN 
CORP.,  Dept.  P-6,  Baltimore  24,  Md.  (Offer  good 
only  in  U.S.)  Or  get  Pompeian  Mas- 
sage Cream  at  any  drug  store. 


Callouses,  Tenderness,  Pain, 
Burning  at  Ball  of  Foot? 


Ball-o-foot 

Cushion 


LOOPS  OVER  TOE 

QUICK  RELIEF 
BEYOND  BELIEF! 

Made  of  soft  LATEX 
FOAMland  NYLON 

You  Actually  WALK 
ON  CUSHIONS! 


It's  entirely  NEW!  Never  before  anything  like  it 
for  relieving  painful  callouses,  tenderness,  burning 
at  ball  of  foot!  The  cushion — not  you — absorbs 
shock  of  each  step.  Dr.  SchoU's  BALL-O-FOOT 
Cushion  loops  over  toe.  No  adhesive.  Flesh  color. 
Washable.  Worn  invisibly.  $1.00  pair  at  Drug,  Shoe, 
Dept.,  5-10f!  Stores  and  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort* 
Shops.  If  not  obtainable  locally,  order  direct,  enclos- 
ing $1.00  and  state  if  for  woman  or  man. 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  INC.,  Dept.  57B,   Chicago   10,  111. 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 


I 


and  abilities  permit.     Equivalent  to  i 
ichool    work — prepares   for   college    entrance    exams.      Standard 
texts  supplied.     Diploma  awarded.     Credit  for   H.  8.   subjects 
completed.     Single  subjects  if  desired.     Ask  for  free  Bulletin. 

American  School,  Dept.  HA53,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37 


HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY! 

Write  today  for  FREE  plan  which  shows 
how  to  make  big  money  in  your  spare 
time.  All  you  do  is  help  us  take  orders 
for  magazine  subscriptions.  No  experi- 
ence needed.  Send  .name  and  address 
on  a  postal.   There  is  no  obligation. 

MACFADDEN  PUBLICATIONS 

205  East  42  St..  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y. 


ENLARGEMENT 

ofyoufi  7-auofMe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
ity 5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
\  shot,  photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
JJ»  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
i  clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
\  Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
'  ment  beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10$  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW1 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-58 
7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd.,    Hollywood   38,    Calif. 

NEW  EYE   GLAMOUR 


ARTIFICIAL  EYELASHES— Absolutely  natural-looking 
lashes  that  give  you  GORGEOUS  EYES  instantly. 
Exotic!  Glamorous!  Simple,  easy  ...  put  on  in  5  sec- 
onds ...  can  be  used  over  and  over  again.  In  compact- 
like purse-size  case. 
Black  or  Brown 

T  10  DAY  TRIAL  FREE!  Order  today  at  our  risk.  If  not  com- 
V  pletely  satisfied  return  the  eyelashes  after  10  days' 
h        trial  for  full  refund. 

HONOR  HOUSE   PRODUCTS   CORP. 

Dept.  E-7T7  LYNBROOK.    N.   Y. 

98 


only  $1 


Happily  Ever  After 


(Continued  from  page  33) 
five-eleven — but,  being  scrupulously  hon- 
est, he  insists  on  waiting  till  he  reaches  his 
full  growth.  Although  he  photographs  on 
your  screen  romantically  dark,  he  actually 
has  light-brown  hair,  blue  eyes  and  fair 
skin.  However,  the  Doug  Fairbanks  mus- 
tache is  not  false,  and  neither  is  the  very 
bright  disposition. 

"When  I  was  young — when  I  had  been 
discovered  only  a  couple  of  times,"  he  re- 
calls, "I  was  just  a  big  yawn  to  most  wom- 
en. Now,  suddenly,  when  I'm  Jack  Ben- 
ny's age,  I  get  a  lot  of  mail  from  women. 
Some  invite  me  to  drop  myself  in  a  mail 
box — and  they  write  as  though  they  mean 
it.  These  letters  I  give  to  my  wife  to 
answer." 

Earl  and  wife  Markey  and  daughter 
Wendy  Ann  live  on  the  fashionable  North 
Shore  of  Long  Island,  in  a  home  with  only 
one  fireplace.  Their  previous  home  had 
seven,  and  Earl  was  thinking  of  installing 
a  couple  more — one  for  each  bathroom. 
This  whole  business  of  renovating  houses 
started  in  1950  when  Earl  went  into  the 
real-estate  business  because  he  was  mak- 
ing more  money  than  he  could  spend.  "I 
bought  up  old  property  and  renovated  it. 
The  first  house  I  did  over  wound  up 
twelve  thousand  dollars  in  the  red.  After 
I  had  more  experience — about  the  fourth 
house — I  got  so  I  lost  only  forty  thousand." 
He  grins  unhappily.  "Anyway,  when  it 
came  to  decorating  our  present  home,  I 
let  Markey  have  the  fun  and  she  did  a 
wonderful  job." 

The  Wrightsons  have  been  married  six- 
teen years.  They  were  born  and  raised  in 
Baltimore.  Earl  joined  the  world  at  just 
about  the  time  most  New  Year's  Eve  par- 
ties were  folding  up  on  January  1,  1916 — 
at  six  A.M.  He  was  the  youngest  in  a 
family  of  eight  children.  His  father  was 
a  Methodist  minister,  who  died  when  Earl 
was  eleven.  His  mother  was  a  musician 
and  former  teacher.  ("Sunday  evenings, 
we  were  all  together  making  beautiful 
music,"  Earl  recalls,  "and  eight  or  nine 
people  can  really  play  loud.") 

As  a  boy  soprano,  Earl  lent  his  voice  to 
the  church  choir.  At  sixteen,  he  decided 
he  wanted  to  be  a  singer.  "I'll  give  you 
lessons,"  the  choirmaster  told  him,  "but 
you  haven't  got  much  of  a  voice,  so  it 
wouldn't  be  honest  to  take  your  money." 

In  his  junior  year,  Earl  quit  high  school. 
"I  quit  because  I  was  bored,"  Earl  tells 
you,  "and  I  have  never  regretted  it." 

Earl  was  not  irresponsible.  He  took  on 
after-school  jobs  when  his  father  died. 
He  had  an  evening  newspaper  route  for 
years.  From  the  time  he  was  thirteen,  he 
paid  for  all  his  own  clothes.  But  he  was 
bored,  so  he  quit  school  and  got  his  first 
job  in  a  bank  which  his  brother  Frank 
managed. 

"I  was  operating  an  adding  machine  next 
to  a  slim,  beautiful  brunette,"  he  grins. 
"She  was  conscientious  and  wanted  to  at- 
tend to  work — and  I  wanted  to  talk." 

The  girl  was  Alta  Markey.  So  Earl  quit 
— to  her  relief  and  also  that  of  his  broth- 
er, who  wanted  to  be  president  (he  has 
since  become  the  president  of  the  biggest 
bank  in  Maryland). 

Earl  found  a  job  as  designer  in  a  jewelry 
firm,  and  the  courtship  of  Alta  Markey 
continued  mostly  in  restaurants,  hot-dog 
stands,  diners,  ice-cream  parlors ,  candy 
stores — anywhere  there  was  food.  Eating 
happened  to  be  the  favorite  sport,  avoca- 
tion and  way  to  spend  a  vacation  for  both 
Alta  and  Earl.  ("There  was  one  restau- 
rant in  Baltimore  which  served  such  quan- 
tities of  food  that  no  one  else  was  ever 
able  to  eat  dessert — but,  for  us,  the  mana- 
ger had  to  send  out  for  ice  cream." 


Earl's  aspiration  to  sing  was  never  for- 
gotten. At  nineteen,  he  sang  for  John 
Charles  Thomas,  who  was  also  the  son  of 
a  Baltimore  minister.  Mr.  Thomas  was 
enthusiastic  and  positively  encouraging. 
Earl  continued  his  lessons. 

"And  I  had  a  deal  with  an  undertaker. 
I  sang  'Going  Home'  in  his  funeral  parlor 
and  he  paid  me  five  dollars  for  each  en- 
gagement. I  tell  you  I  didn't  like  it.  I 
had  to  get  into  a  corner  where  no  one 
could  see  me,  and  my  only  accompani- 
ment was  a  pitch  pipe."  Earl  grimaces. 
"To  this  day,  I  can't  sing  'Going  Home.' " 

In  March  of  1938,  with  $23  in  his  pocket, 
Earl  took  a  train  to  New  York  and  tried 
for  a  page-boy  job  at  NBC.  At  that  time, 
an  NBC  page-boy  job  was  considered  the 
springboard  to  fame  and  fortune.  Earl's 
application  was  accepted  and  he  was  told 
to  wait.  He  got  a  bed  at  the  YMCA, 
looked  for  a  job  until  his  money  ran  out, 
and  then  went  back  to  Baltimore. 

"This  is  the  point  where  the  faith  of  a 
friend  meant  the  difference  between  a 
singing  career  and  who-knows-what.  Our 
neighbor  asked  me  if  a  two-hundred- 
dollar  loan  would  keep  me  in  New  York 
until  I  got  a  start.    I  said  yes." 

The  day  Earl  got  back  to  Manhattan, 
they  were  hiring  page  boys  and,  because 
he  was  there,  he  got  a  job.  He  then  took 
a  letter  of  introduction  to  Robert  Weede, 
the  fine  Metropolitan  Opera  baritone.  Mr. 
Weede  heard  Earl  and  agreed  to  give  him 
lessons.  That  October,  Earl  and  Alta 
Markey  married. 

"I  was  making  fifteen  dollars  a  week, 
and  we  moved  into  a  fifth-floor  walk-up 
on  47th  Street.  We  lived  on  the  cheapest 
food  we  could  find,  which  was  spaghetti — 
with  our  appetites,  it  had  to  be  filling, 
too — and  I  gained  twenty-five  pounds." 

The  young  Mrs.  Wrightson  got  an  ac- 
counting job  in  Wall  Street  to  supplement 
Earl's  pay,  but,  before  the  year  was  out, 
Earl  had  been  "discovered."  Earl,  in  one 
of  those  it-can't-possibly-be-true  Hol- 
lywood scripts,  went  from  page  boy  to 
concert  singer  overnight,  with  star  bill- 
ing in  the  same  studios  where  he  had 
been  ushering  people  to  seats. 

It  came  about  this  way.  Robert  Weede 
asked  Earl  to  return  a  score  to  Walter 
Damrosch.  The  score  was  the  balcony- 
scene  solo  from  the  "Cyrano  de  Bergerac" 
opera.  Mr.  Weede  had  been  asked  to  sing 
it  on  a  special  broadcast  honoring  Dr. 
Damrosch's  birthday,  but  Mr.  Weede  had 
another  commitment. 

"I  got  to  Dr.  Damrosch's  home  and  the 
servant  took  me  up  to  the  study,"  Earl  re- 
calls. "We  got  to  talking  about  my  ambi- 
tions, and  Dr.  Damrosch  asked  me  if  I 
could  sing  the  'Cyrano'  score.  I  could. 
I  had,  in  a  sense,  been  studying  it  over 
Mr.  Weede's  shoulder." 

Earl  sang  and  Dr.  Damrosch  went  to  his 
phone  and  called  up  Dr.  Samuel  Chotzi- 
noff,  who  then,  as  now,  was  in  charge  of 
long-hair  music  at  NBC.  "I've  got  a  dis- 
covery," Dr.  Damrosch  said,  "and  I  want 
him  to  sing  for  my  party  broadcast." 

Dr.  Damrosch  was  so  important,  you 
see,  that  he  picked  the  program  for  his 
own  party.  On  the  day  of  the  broadcast, 
Milton  Cross — who  had  known  Earl  the 
day  before  as  a  page  boy — did  handsome- 
ly by  his  friend  and,  in  reading  off  the  list 
of  "great  artists  who  are  here  to  honor 
Dr.  Walter  Damrosch,"  sandwiched  in  the 
name  of  Earl  Wrightson. 

The  next  day,  Earl  signed  up  with 
NBC's  artists'  bureau.  "And,  with  such 
success,  we  began  to  move  uptown,"  Earl 
remembers.  "We  moved  from  our  fifth- 
floor  walkup  on  47th  Street  to  a  fifth-floor 
walkup  on  49th." 


Earl  was  booked  for  concerts  and 
toured  with  opera  companies.  He  and 
Markey  moved  all  the  way  up  to  74th 
Street.  On  December  23,  1941,  Wendy 
Ann  was  born.  ("We  both  wanted  a  girl," 
Earl  says.  "We  didn't  even  have  a  name 
for  a  boy.") 

War  broke  out  that  same  month  and, 
although  Earl  was  in  prime  condition,  the 
draft  board  put  him  in  a  classification  for 
men  with  dependents — which  made  sense, 
for  he  had  no  private  means  to  support 
his  wife  and  baby.  Earl,  however,  wanted 
to  do  his  part  and  signed  up  with  the  USO 
to  go  overseas.  He  went.  To  the  South 
Pacific.  He  came  back  a  little  beat-up. 
He  got  malaria  in  the  islands,  a  back  in- 
jury when  he  helped  unload  .50  calibre 
ammunition  from  a  ship,  and  a  slight  con- 
cussion from  a  bombing  in  Darwin,  Aus- 
tralia. All  told,  he  was  on  the  receiving 
end  of  27  bombings  and  lost  30  pounds. 

"I  had  to  report  to  my  draft  board,  and 
the  doctor  examined  me  and  said,  'You 
look  as  if  you'd  been  through  the  war.' 
I  told  him,  'That's  a  fact.'  The  medic 
said:    'You're  4-F  now.'  " 

Earl  had  his  clothes  shrunk  and  audi- 
tioned at  the  City  Center  Theater  for  a  re- 
vival of  "New  Moon."  He  was  chosen  to 
co-star  with  Dorothy  Kirsten. 

"And  there  I  was  discovered  again.  This 
time  it  was  by  Max  Gordon,  who  was 
about  to  produce  a  new  musical,  'Fire- 
brand of  Florence,'  by  Kurt  Weill  and  Ira 
Gershwin.  Max  gave  me  the  male  lead 
and  I  was  overjoyed.  With  a  big  Broad- 
way show,  I  figured  I'd  get  fame  and  for- 
tune." 

The  big  Broadway  show  was  a  $300,000 
flop.  But  in  the  audience,  before  it  closed, 
was  Al  Goodman — and  he  discovered  Earl 
for  radio.  "For  the  next  three  years,  I 
was  in  clover,"  Earl  says.  "There  was  the 
Prudential  Hour  and  the  Cities  Service, 
Coca-Cola  and  Celanese  programs." 

Al  Goodman  thought  so  highly  of  Earl's 
voice  that  he  also  featured  Earl  in  seven- 
teen operetta  albums  made  for  Victor. 
But,  in  1946,  Earl  found  himself  facing 
a  dead  mike.  Most  advertisers  had 
stopped  sponsoring  musical  shows. 

J^arl  went  on  tours,  one- night  stands 
and  the  night-club  circuits.  The  roller- 
coaster  career  continued  and,  when  he  did 
a  one-shot  on  Paul  Whiteman's  television 
show  in  1950,  he  was  discovered  again. 
"Pops,"  who  described  Earl's  voice  as  the 
most  versatile  in  the  business,  signed  him 
to  a  contract.  In  addition,  Earl  picked  up 
his  own  radio  and  TV  shows  on  CBS. 

"And  then  the  bottom  fell  out  of  music 
on  TV,"  Earl  says.  "Suddenly,  sponsors 
realized  that,  for  the  money  they  put  into 
one  musical,  they  could  pay  for  a  half- 
dozen  panel  and  dramatic  shows." 

The  bottom  also  fell  out  of  Earl's  real- 
estate  deals.  He  was  renovating  four  dif- 
ferent houses  and  paying  for  it  out  of  his 
TV  income.  Then  there  was  no  TV  in- 
come and  he  lost  the  property.  He  was 
once   again  a  wandering  minstrel. 

It  was  in  December  of  1953  that  Earl 
was  singing  in  an  auditorium  in  Erie, 
Pennsylvania.  Robert  Q.  Lewis  was  the 
emcee.  He  heard  Earl,  and  he  saw  Earl 
literally  stop  the  show.  Robert  Q.  was 
then  organizing  his  current  afternoon 
show,  which  got  its  start  in  January  of 
1954.    Earl  signed  and  the  rest  is  music. 

Among  singers,  Earl  Wrightson  is  recog- 
nized as  having  one  of  the  best  singing 
techniques.  He  merely  opens  his  mouth 
and  a  big,  beautiful  song  pours  out.  It 
looks  so  simple,  but  he  has  worked  like  a 
stevedore  to  achieve  this,  and  he  still 
works.  He  still  spends  a  full  hour,  five 
mornings  a  week,  with  a  voice  coach,  Pol- 
ly Robertson — who,  Earl  says,  is  like  a  sec- 
ond mother  to  him.  She  is  the  only  indi- 
vidual Earl  ever  sings  for.     ("I  can  sing 


for  two  or  three  thousand  people,  but  not 
for  one  or  two,"  Earl  says.)  At  home,  he 
does  no  vocalizing  of  any  kind.  He  doesn't 
even  listen  to  records  or  radio  programs 
that  feature  singers.  He  takes  his  music 
instrumental  and  in  symphonic  form. 

The  Wrightson  home  is  a  converted  red 
barn  painted  barn-red.  Frankly,  any 
other  similarity  between  the  present  barn 
and  the  one  frequented  by  cattle  and 
chickens  is  strictly  illusory.  The  Wright- 
son home  is  made  for  comfort.  There  are 
three  bedrooms  and  two  baths.  The  most 
interesting  room  is  the  Early  American 
"keeping  room."  This  is  a  combination 
living-dining-kitchen-den-ballroom.  It  is 
thirty-five  by  twenty  feet,  with  a  fire- 
place at  one  end.  Here,  anything  goes — 
roasting  and  broiling,  dancing,  taffy  pulls, 
music,  and  Halloween  parties.  The  dec- 
orating of  the  walls  has  been  reversed: 
The  lower  half  is  plaster,  painted  hunter 
green,  the  upper  half  has  been  paneled, 
and  the  oak-beamed  ceiling  is  white. 
There  is  a  phonograph  for  Earl's  concert 
records — and  Wendy's  collection  of  Eddie 
Fisher.  There  is  the  Wrightson  collection 
of  pewter.  There  is  a  spinet  piano  and  an 
antique  organ,  both  played  by  Markey. 
(Earl  still  calls  her  Markey:  "We  began 
calling  each  other  by  our  last  names  when 
we  met  at  the  bank,  and  we  still  do.") 

And  their  appetites  have  never  dimin- 
ished: "A  big  night  out  finds  us  in  an 
expensive  restaurant  reading  a  menu  like 
it  was  a  best-seller." 

While  Markey  does  most  of  the  cooking, 
Earl  considers  cookery  his  hobby.  Most 
of  his  recipes  feature  garlic.  He  likes 
garlic  in  everything  but  vanilla  ice  cream. 
There  is  only  one  dish  he  recommends 
which  lacks  garlic. 

"It's  our  favorite  sandwich.  You  toast 
some  white  bread,"  Earl  directs,  "spread  it 
with  peanut  butter  and  fill  with  thin  slices 
of  onions.  It's  really  delicious.  Honest. 
You  hardly  miss  the  garlic." 

The  garlic  is  sometimes  a  little  rough  on 
Lois  Hunt,  who  duets  with  Earl  on  the 
show.  But  Lois  is  used  to  it.  She  teamed 
up  with  Earl  on  his  own  television  show 
a  few  years  back.  She  and  her  husband 
are  old  friends  of  the  Wrightsons. 

Daughter  Wendy  Ann,  naturally  conser- 
vative at  thirteen,  favors  ordinary  ham- 
burgers. She  is  a  bright,  pretty  child,  a 
combination  of  both  parents  in  looks.  She 
has  her  mother's  brown  eyes  and  Earl's 
brown  hair.  A  few  years  ago,  when  she 
was  about  nine,  she  was  upset  by  Earl's 
TV  romancing.  "She  caught  me  coming 
into  the  house  and  took  my  hand  and  led 
me  up  to  her  room,"  he  recalls.  "She  gave 
me  a  talking  to  about  making  love  to  all 
those  women.  She  was  so  serious  about 
it.  I  explained  to  her  that  it  was  make- 
believe.  Making  love  to  someone  on  tele- 
vision was  no  more  real  than  her  playing 
an  angel  in  the  Christmas  play." 

Earl,  without  making  a  thing  of  it,  has 
more  or  less  kept  his  two  women  apart 
from  show  business.  "Now  Markey  can 
be  very  accurate  in  her  criticism  of  music 
and  singing,"  Earl  says,  "but  that's  as  far 
as  she  goes.  Personally,  she  is  cheerful, 
modest  and  a  very  good  listener.  Anyway, 
I  talk  too  fast  for  her  to  interrupt  my  in- 
terruptions." 

At  home  they  lead  ordinary,  orthodox 
lives.  Between  Earl's  property  and  that  of 
the  nearest  neighbor  there  is  a  pond.  In 
the  winter,  the  whole  family  skates  there. 
In  the  spring,  it's  walks  and,  in  the  sum- 
mer, it's  the  beach.  Markey  is  a  Girl 
Scout  counselor  and  Wendy  is  a  Girl 
Scout. 

Earl's  a  happy  man.  "I  just  hope  the 
bottom  doesn't  fall  out,  this  time,"  he  says. 
"What  I  mean  is — I  hope  that  I  don't  have 
to  be  discovered  again.  I  hope  this  one 
takes." 


"Nil 

YUTH" 

CHIN  AND 

THROAT 

STRAP 


Beautiful    Women    Have    Used    This 
Method  only    15  Minutes  a  Day 

A  firm,  smooth  chin  and  a  slim,  wrinkle-free  throat  are 
two  of  the  obviously  most  important  elements  in  look- 
ing beautiful.  Smart  and  glamorous  women  have  recog- 
nized the  beauty  importance  of  the  throat  and  chin 
line  for  hundreds  of  years— and  many  have  used  just 
this  way  of  rejuvenating  their  appearance. 
It  works  in  a  simple  way.  Just  follow  the  easy  direc- 
tions, wear  Smooth-e-e  15  minutes  a  day,  and  massage 
with  a  mildly  astringent  throat  cream.  This  helps  to 
stimulate  the  circulation,  passively  exercise  tbe  mus- 
cles and  improve  the  skin  tone.  Young  loveliness  may 
be  yours  again. 

You  should  see  a  great  improvement  in  a  few  weeks. 
We  guarantee  that  you  will  be  thrillingly  delighted 
with  the  results  or  we  will  refund  your  $1. 

30  DAY  TRIAL-FREE 
Send  the  coupon  below.  We  will  send  you  Smooth-e-e 
Chin  and  Throat  Strap  at  once.  If  for  any  reason  you 
are  not  satisfied  after  30  day  FREE  trial  simply  send 
back  the  strap  and  your  $1  will  be  promptly  refunded. 

I— MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 1 

I    Smoother  Company,    Dept.  C-883 

■  35  Wilbur  St.,   Lynbrook.   N.  Y. 

j  Please  rush  my  Smooth-e-e  Chin  and  Throat  Strap  J 
I    by  return  mail  on  money  back  guarantee. 

ID  Send     COD.     I'll     pay    D  I   enclose  SI.   Smoothee  j 

postman    SI    plus   COD  Co.    will    pay    postage.  • 

I        and   postage  charges.  Same  money  back  Guar-  I 

an tee. 

■  NAME ■ 

I    ADDRESS j 

>^»^-»  ^»^»^»  — —  —  ^— ^—  — »  —  —  —  r 

ACT  NOW— HELP  FILL  THE  NEED 
►w  yon  can  prepare  for  practical  experience 
.  a  Trained  Practical  Nurse  in  spare  time. 
!any  earn  while  learning:.  Ages  18  to  55.  High 
;chool  not  necessary.  Easy  payments.  Write 
for  free  information  and  sample  lesson  pages. 
WAYNE  SCHOOL  OF  PRACTICAL  NURSING,  INC. 

2525  Sheffield  Ave.,  Desk  E-84,  Chicago  14,   III. 


WANT  TO  BE 
A  PRACTICAL 


UNWANTED  I 


Pestroy/j^ 


■OREVER 


'  Only  by  KILUNG  THE  HAIR  ROOT  can  you  be  s 
P  UNWANTED  HAJR  is  GONE  FOREVER.  Brings  relief  J 
I  happiness.  Do  not  use  our  method  i 
1  you  have  read  our  instruction  book  carefully  and  i 
1  learned  to  use  the  MAHLER  METHOD  safely  and  j 
J  efficiently.  Used  successfully  over  fifty  yean.     /^**^JEW-^ 
BEAUTY  ] 
LFORYOU' 


Send  S^TODAY  for  booklet  » 


MAHLER'S.  INC.      Dept  59-G         PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I 

YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAP 

.JH.1:1MHH 

(S.  D.)* 

As  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
users  have  learned,  Siroil  tends 
to  remove  psoriasis  crusts  and 
scales  on  outer  layer  of  skin. 
Light  applications  help  con- 
trol recurring  lesions.  Siroil 
doesn't  stain  clothing  or  bed  ! 
linens.  Offered  on  two-weeks- 
satisfaction-or-money-refunded 
basis.  22  years  of  successful 
results.  Write  for  free  booklet,  jt 
*S.D.  means  Skin  Disorder.  [M 

•7K?  t&*H6*  to- 


SIROIL 


AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES 

Siroil  Laboratories  Inc.,  Dept.  M-  77,  Santa  Monica,  Calif. 


99 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


687 — Pineapples  and  rows  of  shell  stitches 
brighten  and  beautify  chairs  or  sofa.  Make  a 
matching  buffet  set,  too.  Directions  for  chair 
back,  12"xl7";  arm  rest  6"xl2".  25$ 

681 — Takes  only  one  yard  of  35-inch  fabric 
to  whip  up  this  pretty  apron.  No  embroid- 
ery— iron-on  pink  wild-roses  with  green 
leaves.  Tissue  pattern,  washable  color  trans- 
fers. Medium  Size.    25$ 

7209 — Baby  will  go  to  sleep  in  a  jiffy  when 
he  has  all  his  animal  friends  to  keep  him 
warm.  Animal  quilt;  embroidery  motifs; 
applique  patches,   diagrams,  32"x44".  25$ 


Send   twenty- five   cents    (in   coins) 
New   York   11,  New  York.    Add 


7013— The  full  skirt  of  this  old-fashioned 
girl  protects  your  toaster.  Fun  to  make, 
charming  to  see.  Use  scraps.  Embroidery 
transfer,  pattern  pieces  included.    25c1 

658— Easy  to  sew— easier  to  embroider. 
Frosting  of  flowers  is  a  feminine  touch  on 
this  jiffy-wrap  halter.  Use  remnants.  Sizes 
Small  (10,  12),  Medium  (14,  16),  Large  (18, 
20).   Pattern  pieces,  transfer.   State  size.  25$ 

638 — Crochet  the  new  round  tablecloth. 
Fascinating  pineapple  design  in  this  52-inch 
circle.  Use  mercerized  crochet  and  knitting 
cotton  for  cloth,  fine  cotton  for  centerpiece. 
Complete  crochet  directions.   25$ 

for   each  pattern   to:   TV   Radio    Mirror,    Needlecraft    Service,   P.O.   Box   137,   Old I   Chelsea    Station, 
five  cents  for  each  pattern  for   first-class  mailing.    Send  an  additional  25<S  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


100 


odess . 


Only  New  Design  Modess  gives  you  the  luxury  of  a  new 
whisper-soft  fabric  covering  ...  no  gauze  ...  no  chafe, 


STANDS  OUT  from  all  the  rest 


stands  out  for  flavor  and  is  Light  and  Mild 


stands  out  for  effective  filtration -draws  e-a-s-y 


PURE    WHITE 

Mfaack7ip 


stands  out  for  highest  quality  tobaccos -low  nicotine 


MM  has  everything! 


y 


¥ 


"For  me  -  ^&M  has  every- 
thing! The  taste  I  want  and 
the  very  best  filter  made." 
TV's  LEILA  HOLLWAY 


L&M  is  America's  Best  Filter  Cigarette/ 


©  Liggett  &  Myers  Tobacco  Co. 


■  ■   in     i 


. 


