Scanned  from  the  collections  of 
The  Library  of  Congress 


AUDIOVISUAL  CONSERVATION 
at  The  UBRARY  of  CONGRESS 


imM^^  :  rfHL^f  ^  ^    J 


Packard  Campus 

for  Audio  Visual  Conservation 

www.loc.gov/avconservation 

Motion  Picture  and  Television  Reading  Room 
www.loc.gov/rr/mopic 

Recorded  Sound  Reference  Center 
www.loc.gov/rr/record 


i 


hi 


' 


,„.u».«*  "-"* 


:,^^^ 


M 


MIRRO 


EXCLUSIVE 
STORIES: 


ADIO  MIRROR 


Wm  DESMOND 
lot  teenagers  really 
want  to  know! 


Q^,w  <v  Bid^  "^^  "'^^^a-ab  Q^^ 


MIONDERFUL  NEW  EASIT-TO-DO  PIN-CURL  PERMANENT 


In  hairdos,  today's  look  is  the  soft  look,  and  Procter  &  Gamble's  wonderful 
new  pin-curl  home  permanent  is  especially  designed  to  give  it  to  you.  A 
PIN-IT  wave  is  soft  and  lovely  as  a  pin-curl  set,  never  tight  and  kinky.  PIN-IT 
is  so  wonderfuUtj  different.  There's  no  strong  ammonia  odor  while  you 
use  it  or  left  in  your  hair  afterwards.  It's  eastj  on  your  hair,  too,  so  you 
can  use  it  more  often.  And  PIN-IT  is  far  easier  to  give.  You  can  do  it  all 
by  yourself.  Just  put  your  hair  up  in  pin  curls  and  apply  PIN-IT's  Waving 
Lotion.  Later,  rinse  and  let  dry.  With  self-neutralizing  PIN-IT,  you  get 
waves  and  curls  where  you  want  them  ...  no  resetting  needed  ...  a 
permanent  and  a  set  in  one  step.  For  a  wave  that  looks  soft  and  lovely 
from  the  very  first  day  and  lasts  weeks  and  weeks  —  try  PIN-IT ! 


$|SO 


^L-i'il 


J 


i  K 


BY  PROCTER  &  GAMBiC 


\>\\ 


Small-fry  experts  at  work...testing  NEW  IPANA 
-the  best-tasting  way  to  fight  decay 


Here's  a  break  for  the  sub-sub  deb 
set:  the  tooth  paste  that's  so  wonderful 
for  their  teeth  now  has  a  brand-new 
flavor!  It's  minty  and  marvelous — in- 
vites pint-size  experts  to  brush  often  (the 
best  way  to  save  pretty  teeth). 

And  new  Ipana  with  bacteria -fighter 
WD-9  gives  extra  protection  to  precious 
teeth.  This  new  formula  destroys  decay 


bacteria  measurably  better  than  any 
other  leading  tooth  paste  . . .  even  better 
than  fluoride! 

So  with  every  happy  brushing,  your 
family's  teeth  get  Ipana's  extra  protec- 
tion .  .  .  the  pleasantest  way — good  rea- 
son to  change  to  Ipana  today!  It's  at  all 
toiletry  counters  in  the  yellow  and  red- 
striped  carton. 


New-Formula  IPANA^ 

Wrm  BACTERIA-DESTROYER  WD-9 


■<^ 


PRODUCTS   OF   BRISTOL-MYERS 


Ipana  A/C  Tootti  Paste  (Ammoniated  Chlorophyll)  also  contains  bacteria-destroyer  WD-9  (Sodium  Lauryl  Sulphate). 


See  how  exciting  this  new  luxury 
lather  makes  your  hair!  Glowing 
clean,  silky.  .  .  so  manageable! 
Conditions  any  hair.  That's  the 
magic  touch  ofSHAMPOO  PLUS  EGG! 
Try  it!  294,  59<t,  $1. 


JULY,  1955 


TV 


MIRROR 


VOL.  44,  NO.  2 


N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 

Bud  Goode,  W^est  Coast  Editor 


people  on  the  air 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  16 

Winners  of  Feather  Your  Nest  Contest,  Home  Edition 25 

A  Family  to  Cherish    (Bob  Cummings) by   Bud  Goode  29 

Cinderella  with  a  Song   (Peggy  King) by  Gordon  Budge  32 

Live  Up  to  Your  Dreams   (Johnny  Desmond) by  Helen  Bolstad  34 

The  Name's  The  Same   (Bob  Elliott  and 

Ray   Goulding) by   Peter   Charade  38 

This  Life  I  Love   (June  Havoc) by  Martin  Cohen  40 

Never  a  Dull  Moment  (Lawrence  Weber).. by  Gregory  Merwin  56 

So  This  Is  Hollywood by  Mitzi  Green  58 

Where  the  Heart  Belongs  (Cathleen  Cordell) by  Mary  Temple  60 

This  Is  Nora  Dr.ake  (picture  story  from  the  popular  daytime  serial)..,.  62 

The  Long  Way  Home   (Tom  Moore) by  Harold  Keene  66 


-» 


features  in  full  color 


Album  of  Daydramas  {The  Greatest  Gift,  Concerning  Miss  Marlowe, 

Hawkins  Falls,  First  Love,  The  World  Of  Mr.  Sweeney) 42 

Man  of  the  House  (Herb  Nelson) by  Ed  Meyerson  46 

Honeymoon  in  the  Sun   (Steve  Allen  and 

Jayne  Meadows) ...by  Philip   Chapman  50 

The  Magic  of  Erin  (Carmel  Quinn) by  Frances  Kish  52 


your  local  station 


Everyone  Goes  for  Broke   (WRCA-TV) 4 

Head   in   the   Clouds    (WPTZ) 8 

Meet  Alice  Jackson    (WJAR-TV) 14 

Master  of  Make-Believe    (WVEC-TV) 26 


your  special  services 


Steve   Allen's   Turntable • 

Daytime  Diary ^ 

New  Designs  for  Living   (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 12 

Information  Booth 1° 

New  Patterns  for  You   (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 24 

Inside  Radio    (program  listings) '2 

TV   Program   Highlights '^4 

Cover  portrait  of  Peggy  King  by  Elmer  Holloway  (NBC-TV) 


buy  your  August  copy  early  •  on  sole  July  5 


PUBLISHED  inONTHLV  by  Mactadden  Publications,  Inc.,  New 
exkutive',   advertisino   and   editorial   offices   at 

20?  East  42nd  Street,  New  York.  N.  Y.  Editorial  Branch 
Offices-  321  South  Beverly  Drive.  Beverly  Hills.  Calif.,  and 
221  North  La  salle  Street,  ChicaBO.  111.  Irvinu  S.  Manheimer. 
President"  Lee  Andrews,  Vice  President;  Meyer  Dworkin, 
SecretaPyand   Treasurer.    Advertising  offices   also    in   Chicago 

S'ubscrIPtIon'^RATES:  $3.00  one  year.  U.  S.  and  Posses- 
rinn?nn!l  Canada  S.5  00  per  year  for  all  other  countries. 
CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When  pes- 
Hihleoleas^!  furnish  stencil-impression  address  from  a  re- 
c-ent  'iBsie  AddrSs  J-hanges  can  be  made  only  '', 5-°"  v^-^"^.";? 
your  old,  as  well  as  your  new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror,  ior,  East  42nd  Street.  New  York  17,  N.  Y.  , 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  considered, 
"ut   publisher   cannot   be   responsible   f°;,^°g|,°'i,t'"{Sy"^|-„^ 


is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self-addressed 
return  envelopes  or  with  sufficient  return  postage  will  be 
FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp..  205  East  42nd  street.  New  York  17, 
NY.     Irving    S.    Manheimer.    President;    Douglaa    Lockhart, 

RE-ENTERED^'as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  lO.M,  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York.  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3, 
lR7q  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.  O.  Dept..  Ottawa, 
Ont  Cannd.°  cSpyrlght  1955  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc. 
A  1  r'lEhts  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention. 
A  rilJ^itsTel^d  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tinn  Todo.s  dercchos  reservados  segun  La  Convencion  Pan- 
Ame'ridana  de  Propledad  Llterarla  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
reSutered  in  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Company. 
STOKY    Women's    Group 


DOCTORS    PROVE    a  one-minute    massage  with 

PALMOLIVE  SOAP  CAN  GIVE  YOU  A 

GETS  HIDDEN  DIRT  THAT  ORDINARY  CLEANSING  METHODS  MISS! 


I 


T    Dirt  lefr  on  ftce  sfkr  ordinary  cleansing 


Rub  your  face  hard  with  a 
cotton  pad  after  ordinary 
casual  cleansing  with  any 
soap  or  cold  cream.  You'll 
see  that  you  didn't  remove 
deep-down  dirt  and  make- 
up. "Ordinary-clean"  is  just 
superficially  clean! 


Beautfftlly  clean  afer  60-second  f^lmoliVe  ftda 


Rub  your  face  the  same  way 
after  60-second  massage 
with  Palmolive.  Pad  is  still 
snowy-white!  "Palmolive- 
clean"  is  deep-down  clean. 
Your  skin  is  free  of  clinging 
dirt  that  casual  cleansing 
misses. 


Owl- (L^oiplkjL  JmiL   CAN  WORK  SO  THOROUGHLY 

^YET  SO  GENTLY!  PALMOLIVE  BEAUTY  CARE  CLEANS  CLEANER, 
CLEANS  DEEPER,  WITHOUT  IRRITATION! 


No  matter  what  your  age  or  type  of  skin, 
doctors  have  proved  that  Palmolive  beauty 
care  can  give  you  a  cleaner,  fresher  complex- 
ion the  very  first  time  you  use  it!  That's 
because  Palmolive  care  gets  your  skin  deep- 
down  clean  by  removing  the  hidden,  clinging 
dirt  that  casual  methods  miss. 

Just  massage  your  face  with  Palmolive's 
rich,  gentle  lather  for  60  seconds,  morning 


and  night.  Rinse  and  pat  dry.  It's  that  sim- 
ple! But  remember  .  .  .  only  a  soap  that  is 
truly  mild  can  cleanse  thoroughly  without 
leaving  your  face  feeling  drawn  and  uncom- 
fortable. And  Palmolive's  mildness  lets  you 
massage  a  full  minute  without  irritation. 

Try  mild  Palmolive  Soap  today.  In  just 
60  seconds,  you'll  be  on  your  way  toward 
new  complexion  beauty! 


DOCTORS  PROVE  PALMOLIVE'S  BEAUTY  RESULTS! 


Everyone  Goes  "For 


"Sir  Silken  Speech"  becomes  silent  and  pensive  as  he  relaxes  over  a  game  of  chess,  one  of  his  many  favorite  pastimes. 


After  SI  years  in  broadcasting 
Norman  Brokenshire,  the  man  of  many- 
firsts,  continues  to  delight  audiences 
with  his  wit,  charm  and  versatility 


Harry  Sriow,   Broke,   ond  Jett  MacDonold   join  talents  on 
WRCA-TV  to  present  a  happy  fare  of  comedy  and  music. 


NOWADAYS,  around  the  WRCA-TV  studios  in  New 
York,  everyone  is  talking  about  "The  New 
Norman  Brokenshire."    WRCA-TV  viewers, 
however,  know  it's  the  same  Norman  Brokenshire — 
king  of  the  ad  Hb — of  radio  fame,  and  the  "new" 
applies  to  his  hour-long  funfest.  The  Norman 
Brokenshire  Show,  ^een  daily  at  1  P.M.     Aided 
by  the  talents  of  beautiful  Jett  MacDonald  and  hand- 
some Harry  Snow,  "Broke"  presents  a  round  of 
songs  and  comedy  sketches,  strums  on  his  ukulele, 
and  dances  everything  from  a  schottische  to  a 
Highland  fling — all  of  which  are  spiced  with  his 
incomparable  charm  and  wit.  . .  .  From  the  beginning, 
Broke's  audience  and  fan  mail  have  been  growing 
by  leaps  and  more  leaps,  which  is  only  natural 
for  the  man  who  holds  a  record  of  firsts  in  broad- 
casting.   Some  of  these  include  broadcasting  the  first 
progi'am  from  a  plane  in  flight,  first  to  announce 
a  horse  race,  fii'st  free-lance  announcer,  and 
instigator  of  the  radio  serial.    The  latter  occurred 
back  in  1924  when — owing  to  bad  weather,  a 
scheduled  act  failed  to  appear  at  air  time — announcer 
Brokenshire  in  desperation  grabbed  a  book  of  short 
stories  and  read  to  the  unseen  audience.    When 
the  entertainer  finally  arrived.  Broke  stopped  at 
the  crucial  point  of  a  story  and  spoke  those  now- 
famous  words:  "Tune  in  tomorrow  to  find  out  what 
happens  .  .  ."    Not  only  did  listeners  tune  in  the 
next  day,  but  for  many  days  after,  to  hear  what 
became  a  regular  series  of  short-story  readings 
by  Broke.  ...    In  addition  to  gaining  fame  as  a 
special-events  announcer.  Broke  became  a  com- 
mercial announcer  of  the  highest  order,  appearing 
with  such  radio  immortals  as  Eddie  Cantor,  Bing 
Crosby,  Will  Rogers  and  Major  Bowes.  .  .  .  Born  in 
Murcheson,  Canada,  young  Mr.  Brokenshire  served 
in  the  U.  S.  Infantry  prior  to  crashing  radio,  in 
1924,  via  Station  WJZ.     One  of  his  first  friends  was 
the  station  manager's  secretary.     Broke  well  re- 
members his  fii-st  date  with  Eunice:  lunch  in  Central 
Park.    Romantic,  perhaps — but  also  practical  for 
the  struggling  young  announcer.     Before  long. 
Broke  was  dictating  his  scripts  to  Eunice,  who 
typed  them  up  on  her  boss's  time.  "This  became  such 
a  valuable  service,"  Broke  confesses,  "I  couldn't 
afEord  to  lose  it,  so  I  married  her."    Today,  Broke 
and  Eunice  share  two  homes:   A  comfortable 
penthouse  apartment  in  New  York  and  a  wonderful 
home   on  Long   Island.     Broke's   weekday   hide- 
away is  the  penthouse.     "It's  exactly  what  I've 
always  wanted,"  he  says.    "There's  a  wonderful 
view  of  the  river  and  a  delightful  breeze  in  the 
summer."     Broke  lives  for  the  weekends  when  he 
can  spend  all  his  time  at  his  other  home  on  Lake 
Ronkonkoma.     Twenty-two  years  ago,  Broke  fell 
in  love  with  the  site  and  determined  to  build  a 
house  there — which  he  literally  did,  mostly  by 
himself.     He   still   enjoys   "fiddling   and   facing 
things  at  home,"  and  is  also  handy  in  the  kitchen, 
though  he  defers  to  Eunice,  who  has  written  two 
cookbooks.      Broke's   favorite    "original"    recipe 
is  French  Fried  Liver,  which  is  prepared  by  cutting 
liver  in  strips,  roUing  in  a  mixture  of  curry  powder, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  frying  in  butter.  .  .  .    When 
Broke  began  his  present  TV  show,  he  succumbed 
to  his  cautious  nature  and  decided  to  rely  on  a 
tele-prompter  rather  than  ad-lib  in  his  inimitable 
style..  But,  on  the  very  first  show,  he  discovered  the 
prompter  was  too  far  away — and  he  had  to  ad-lib. 
This  has  proved  to  be  for  the  best,  because  it  has 
always  been  his  warm,  friendly  naturalness,  his  great 
"gift  of  gab,"  that  have  made  millions  "go  for  Broke." 


Broke   plays  the   uke  for  his  own   pleasure,   as   well   as  on 
his  show.    "Sweet  Georgia  Brown"  is  one  of  his  pet  tunes. 


An  expert  at  doing   it  hinnself,   Broke   built  his  3-car  gar- 
age, machine  shop,  s+udio — even  his  65-foo+  TV  antenna. 


Mr.  and   Mrs.   Brokenshire   prepare  a   weekend   snack.  Al- 
though he's  a  capable  chef,  Broke  says  Eunice  is  the  expert. 


Only  Bobbi  is  specially  designed  to  give  the  softly  feminine  wave 
needed  for  this  new  "Soft  Talk"  hairdo.  No  nightly  settings  necessary. 


NO   TIGHT.   FUSSY   CURLS    HERE! 

These  hairdos  were  made  with  Bobbi- 

the  special  pin-curl  permanent  for 

softly  feminine  hairstyles 

Now  your  hair  can  be  as  soft  and  natural-looking  as  the  hairdos 
shown  here.  Just  give  yourself  a  Bobbi — the  easy  pin-curl  permanent 
specially  designed  for  today's  newest  softly  feminine  hairstyles. 

A  Bobbi  looks  soft  and  natural  from  the  very  first  day.  Curls  and 
waves  are  exactly  where  you  want  them — wonderfully  carefree 
for  weeks.  Pin-curl  your  hair  just  once.  Apply  Bobbi's  special 
lotion.  A  little  later  rinse  with  water.  Let  dry,  brush  out.  Right 
away  your  hair  has  the  beauty,  the  body  of  naturally  wavy  hair. 

New  20-Page  Hairstyle  Booklet!  Colorful  collection  of  new  softly  feminine  hairstyles. 
Easy-to-follow  setting  instructions.  Hints!  Tips!  Send  now  for  "Sef-/f-yourse/f  Hairstyles." 
Your  name,  address,  10c  in  coin  to:  Bobbi,  Box  3600,  Merchandise  Mart,  Chicago,  III. 


With  Bobbi  you  get  waves  exactly  where  you  want 
them,  the  way  you  want  them.  Notice  the  easy,  gen- 
tle look  of  this  bewitching  new  "La  Femme"  hairdo. 


Bobbi's  soft  curls  make  a  natural,  informal  wave  like 
this  possible.  A  Bobbi  gives  you  the  kind  of  carefree 
curls  needed  for  this  gay  "Satin  Sweep"  hairdo. 


Just  pin-curls  and  Bobbi.  No  separate  neutralizer,  no  curlers,  no  resetting.  Every- 
thing you  need  —  New  Creme  Oil  Lodon,  special  bobby  pins.  #1.50  plus  tax. 


Bobbi  is  made  especially  to  give  young,  free  and  easy 
hairstyles  like  this  "Honeycomb"  hairdo.  And  the 
curl  is  there  to   stay  —  in   all  kinds  of  weather. 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


WELL,  spring  has  sprung,  so  before  you 
take  off  for  sunimer  romance  and 
fun,  let's  give  a  listen  to  some  new 
records. 

"Play  Me  Hearts  and  Flowers"  was  a  big 
hit  for  Johnny  Desmond,  and  now  Coral 
has  used  it  as  the  title  for  a  new  album  by 
Johnny.  The  Desmond  croon  style  comes 
across  fine  on  such  new  tunes  as  "I'm  So 
Ashamed,"'  "A  Woman's  Loveliest  When 
She  Is  Loved,"  "If  I  Could  Only  Tell  You," 
and  "Wayward  Wife,"  among  others.  For 
good  measure,  Johnny  has  tossed  in  some 
of  his  recent  single  releases— "My  Own 
True  Love,"  "Song  from  Desiree,"  "The 
High  and  the  Mighty,"  and  of  course, 
"Hearts  and  Flowers." 

Eddie  Fisher's  new  twosome  is  most 
timely,  to  say  the  least — "Heart,"  and 
"Near  to  You" — because  this  is  the  month 
he  and  Debbie  Reynolds  plan  to  hear  wed- 
ding beUs.  Both  tunes  are  from  the  new 
Broadway  musical,  "Damn  Yankees,"  and 
either  side  could  be  another  Fisher  click. 
Victor  must  think  so,  too,  as  they  have  al- 
ready shipped  a  half-million  copies  to  rec- 
ord stores. 

Patti  Page  has  waxed  "Near  to  You" 
also,  but  the  backing — "I  Love  to  Dance 
with  You" — sounds  more  like  the  big  side 
for  Patti.  She  uses  her  familiar  multiple- 
voice  gimmick  on  it,  and  to  excellent  effect. 
(Mercury) 

Columbia  is  releasing  a  big  special  al- 
bimi,  "Love  Me  or  Leave  Me,"  starring 
Doris  Day,  who  also  stars  in  the  M-G-M 
musical  movie  of  the  same  name.  It's  the 
life  story  of  Ruth  Etting,  the  famous  popu- 
lar singer  of  early  radio  and  recording 
days,  who  is  now  retired.  In  the  album, 
Doris  sings  all  the  tunes  she  does  in  the 
picture,  including  such  all-time  favorites 
as  "It  All  Depends  on  You,"  "At  Sxm- 
down,"  "Mean  to  Me,"  "You  Made  Me 
Love  You,"  and  the  title  song,  natch.  Percy 
Faith,  who  also  scored  the  movie,  conducts. 

Columbia  is  also  issuing  an  album  of 
original  recordings  done  by  Ruth  Etting, 
with  some  of  the  same  tunes,  made  about 
a  quarter  of  a  century  ago. 

Here's  "Love  Me  or  L^ave  Me"  again, 
this  time  in  the  Billy  Eckstine  style,  as- 
sisted by  Lou  firing's  orchestra  and  the 
Pied  Pipers  vocal  group.  On  the  reverse, 
Billy  sings  "Only  You,"  giving  it  the  sUght 
rhythm-and-blues  treatment,  but  still 
managing  to  retain  the  flavor  of  a  ballad, 
which  is  a  neat  trick  these  days.  (M-G-M) 

Les  Paul  and  Mary  Ford  don't  have  to 
worry  much  about  trends,  as  their  indi- 
vidual style  of  recording  does  right  well 
by  them.  On  their  latest,  the  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Guitar  team  do  a  beat  thing  called  "Gen- 
uine Love"  and  the  plaintive  "No  Letter 
Today,"  which  is  sort  of  a  country-West- 
ern classic.  (Capitol) 

Two  more  original-cast  albums  of 
Broadway    musical    comedies    are    coming 


out  any  minute,  courtesy  of  Victor.  The 
first  is  the  complete  score  of  "Damn 
Yankees,"  which  s+ars  Gwen  Verdon  and 
Stephen  Douglass,  and  the  second  is 
"Three  for  Tonight,"  with  Marge  and 
Gower  Champion  and  Harry  Belafonte. 

Rosemary  Clooney  lends  her  pretty 
voice  to  "Love  Among  the  Young,"  one  of 
the  loveliest  ballads  of  the  year,  and  it 
should  be  a  lovely  hit  for  Rosie.  On  the 
coupling  she  does  "A  Touch  of  the  Blues" 
and,  in  her  own  words,  "I  picked  this  one 
just  to  prove  I  can  still  sing  a  swing  tune." 
And  does  she!    (Columbia) 

"In  the  Wee  Small  Hours"  is  the  title  of 
a  new  album  by  Frank  Sinatra,  and  a 
wonderful  title  it  is  for  the  collection  of 
torch  standards  he  sings — in  excellent 
voice,  too,  by  the  way.  There  are  sixteen 
songs  in  all,  including  such  favorites  as 
"Just  One  of  Those  Things,"  "Mood  In- 
digo," "Glad  to  Be  Unhappy,"  "Deep  in  a 
Dream,"  "I  See  Your  Face  Before  Me," 
"Can't  We  Be  Friends?"  and  "I  Get  along 
Without  You  Very  Well."  Lush  arrange- 
ments and  fine  orchestral  backing  by  Nel- 
son Riddle.  (Capitol) 

Betty  Madigan,  the  little  singer  who 
started  off  in  high  gear  on  records  with 
her  "Joey"  hit,  continues  to  move  right 
along  in  the  vocal  sweepstakes.  She  does  a 
fine  job  on  her  latest  release  of  two  pretty 
ballads,  "I  Had  a  Heart"  and  "Wonderful 
Words,"  accompanied  by  Joe  Lipman's 
orchestra.    (M-G-M) 

Eydie  Gorme  and  Steve  Lawrence,  two 
of  the  singing  youngsters  on  my  Tonight 
show,  who  often  record  together,  have 
come  up  with  what  I  think  is  their  best 
offering  to  date.  Steve  and  Eydie  give  the 
rhythm  treatment  to  the  new  tune  called 
"Close  Your  Eyes"  and  back  it  up  with  an 
old  favorite,  "Besame  Mucho,"  done  in  a 
Latin  tempo.  Dick  Jacobs  conducts  on 
both.    (Coral) 

Speaking  of  Tonight,  I'm  happy  that  so 
many  of  you  folks  liked  my  album,  and 
I'm  also  pleased  that  Coral  is  releasing  a 
single  record  of  the  song  "Tonight,"  done 
by  that  talented  baritone.  Buddy  Greco. 

Capitol  has  signed  the  cute  little  French 
singer,  Line  Renaud,  and  they're  mighty 
excited  about  her  first  record,  "If  I  Love," 
a  ballad,  and  "Pam-Pou-De,"  a  music-hall 
type  of  thing.  Both  tunes,  by  the  way, 
were  written  by  Line's  husband,  Louis 
Gaste,  who  is  one  of  France's  best-known 
composers  and  guitarists.  Line  is  the  gal 
Bob  Hope  discovered  in  Paris;  she  ap- 
peared with  Hope  on  his  TV  show. 

Sammy  Davis,  Jr.  has  only  been  in  the 
record  big-time  for  little  over  a  year,  but 
he  has  become  increasingly  popular  as  a 
wax  personality.  And  now  Decca  has  put 
together  an  album  called  "Starring  Sammy 
Davis,  Jr."  It  includes  some  of  his  previ- 
ously released  singles,  such  as  "Hey  There," 
"Birth  of  the  Blues,"  and  "This  Is  My  Be- 


loved," as  well  as  some  well-known  stand- 
ards, "Easy  to  Love,"  "September  Song," 
"My  Funny  Valentine,"  "Because  of  You," 
"Lonesome  Road,"  and  "Stan'  Up  an' 
Fight"    (from  "Carmen  Jones"). 

James  Brown,  otherwise  known  as  Lieu- 
tenant Rip  Masters  of  the  Rin  Tin  Tin  TV 
show,  has  made  his  second  record  follow- 
ing his  successful  debut  with  "Davy 
Crockett."  James  sings  "The  Berry  Tree," 
the  big  song  from  the  movie,  "Many  Riv- 
ers to  Cross."  Adults  as  well  as  the  kids 
should  like  this  one.  On  the  coupling  he 
does  a  straight  ballad,  "I  Lost  When  I 
Found  You."    (M-G-M) 

Speaking  of  Davy  Crockett,  the  lad  has 
been  such  a  click  that  Columbia  is  issuing 
the  original  Davy  Crockett  stories — as  per- 
formed on  the  Disneyland  TV  series,  with 
Fess  Parker,  Buddy  Ebsen  and  George 
Bruns'  orchestra — "Davy  Crockett  Goes  to 
Congress,"  "Davy  Crockett,  Indian  Fight- 
er,"  and   "Davy   Crockett   at   the  Alamo." 

The  complete  soundtrack  of  the  musical 
score  from  the  M-G-M  musical,  "Inter- 
rupted Melody,"  has  been  put  into  album 
form  by  M-G-M  Records.  The  movie  is 
the  life  story  of  the  famous  operatic  per- 
sonality, Marjorie  Lawrence — whose  active 
career  ended  when  she  became  crippled 
and  was  confined  to  a  wheelchair — with 
Eleanor  Parker  playing  the  Lawrence  role. 
Also  in  the  movie,  and  on  the  album,  are 
Glenn  Ford,  Roger  Moore  and  Cecil  Kella- 
way.  However,  Eleanor  Parker's  "voice" 
is  dubbed,  and  beautifully  so,  by  the  well- 
known  soprano,  Eileen  Farrell.  The  musi- 
cal emphasis  is  on  light-classical  selections, 
but  there  are  some  popular  songs  included 
as  well.  Walter  Ducloux  conducts  the 
M-G-M  Studio  Symphony  and  chorus. 

Well,  it's  time  to  go,  and  speaking  of  life 
stories  in  the  movies,  I'm  about  to  leap  to 
Hollywood  to  try  my  luck  with  "The  Benny 
Goodman  Story"  at  Universal-Internation- 
al. A  musical,  natch.  See  you  next  month. 


Les  Paul  and  Mary  Ford  "do  it  again" 

with    two    fine    numbers   for   Capitol. 


Mary's  famous  recipes  have  been  tried  and  tasted  by 
such  people  as  "Ike"  Eisenhower  and  Charles  Lindbergh. 
Here,  Hollywood  star  Alan  Mowbray  tries  her  'burgers. 


<A'i 


After  her  history-making   jet  flight,    Mary  poses  with   husband 
Gill   Robb  Wilson   (second  from   right)  and  Air  Force  officials. 


Mary  Wilson  keeps  the 
airlines  and  airwaves  buzzing— 

in  a  plane,  or  as  WPTZ's 
gracious,   vivacious   ^'first  lady 


?? 


HEAD  IN  THE  CLOUDS 


THOUSANDS  of  viewers  w^ithin  sight  and  sound  of  Phila- 
delphia's Station  WPTZ  knovi^  Mary  Wilson  as  the 
charming  hostess  of  Pots,  Pans  And  Personalities — the 
show  that  combines  Mary's  famous  recipes  with  zesty 
dashes  of  music  and  personality  interviews.  Seen  Mon- 
day, Tuesday  and  Friday  at  2:30  P.M.,  the  show  also 
features  singing-comedian  Jack  Wilson  (no  relation), 
who  joins  Mary  in  feting  the  entire  membership  of  a 
woman's  club  on  each  program.  .  .  .  Well  over  a  thou- 
sand requests  for  recipes  come  Mary's  way  each  week. 
But,  as  housewives  walk  to  the  corner  to  mail  these 
letters,  many  would  be  surprised  to  know  that  the  jet 
plane  zooming  by  overhead  might  very  well  be  piloted 
by  the  same  Mary  Wilson.  Jets  are  new  to  Mary, 
who  is  the  second  woman  ever  to  pilot  one.  But  flying 
itself  is  a  long-time  hobby  and  the  blonde,  gray-eyed 
TV  hostess  has  more  than  50,000  flying  miles  to  her 
credit.  Her  instructor  is  her  husband,  Gill  Robb  Wil- 
son, editor  and  publisher  of  Flying  Magazine.  Mary 
boasts  that  she  was  able  to  land  a  plane  the  first  time 
she  tried  flying  one,  but  she  adds  that  a  perfect  landing 
is  something  she  hasn't  achieved — "yet."  .  .  .  Mary  has 


cooked  for  some  of  the  world's  most  famous  people, 
including  President  Eisenhower— to  whom  she  served 
"baked  beans  made  from  scratch  and  baked  all  day." 
Last  St.  Patrick's  day,  Mary  wanted  to  talk  with  Premier 
John  A.  Costello  of  Ireland  and  so,  as  casually  as  most 
women  go  to  market,  Mary  flew  to  Dublin,  recorded 
the  interview,  then  flew  back.  .  .  .  After  graduating  from 
Rider  College  in  Trenton,  Mary  spent  six  years  in  the 
business  world,  rising  from  secretary  to  vice-president 
of  a  large  Newark  department  store.  She  met  her  hus- 
band while  he  was  a  Presbyterian  minister  in  Trenton. 
They  were  married  in  1931.  Their  daughter  and  two 
grandchildren  live  in  California,  but  this  distance  means 
little  to  the  flying  Wilsons.  .  .  .  Mary  and  Gill  share  a 
modern  Philadelphia  apartment,  which  boasts  of  950- 
square-foot  oil  painting.  The  color  pink  is  used  through- 
out the  five-room  apartment,  even  to  the  ironing-board 
cover  and  the  bird-cage  cover.  In  her  spare  time,  Mary 
plays  golf,  does  little-theater  acting  and,  of  course, 
cooks.  Mostly  though,  Mary  Wilson  likes  heading  sky- 
ward— in  the  very  same  direction  as  her  popularity 
rating  with  Station  WPTZ  viewers. 


Lustre  -  Creme 
Shampoo... 


Cream  or  Lotion 


Never  Dries 


"Yes,  I  use  Lustre-Creme 
Shampoo,"  says  Joan  Crawford.  It's 
the  favorite  of  4  out  of  5  top 
Hollywood  movie  stars! 

It  never  dries  your  hair!  Lustre- 
Creme  Shampoo  is  blessed  with 
lanoHn  .  .  .  foams  into  rich  lather, 
even  in  hardest  water  .  .  .  leaves 
hair  so  easy  to  manage. 

It  becsutifies!  For  soft,  bright,  fra- 
grantly clean  hair — without  special 
after-rinses — choose  the  shampoo  of 
America's  most  glamorous  women. 
Use  the  favorite  of  Hollywood  movie 
stars — Lustre-Creme  Shampoo. 


starring  m 

"FEMALE  ON  THE  BEACH" 

A  Universal-International  Picture 


The  naked  truth  about 
the  girl  in  the  locker  room/ 

She's  the  belle  of  the  beach  .  .  .'  even  the 
waves  seem  to  snuggle  closer.  She's  the 
girl  with  the  eye-stopping  figure,  slim 
waist,  smooth  hips,  flat  tummy.  She's  the 
girl  you  think  it's  impossible  to  be  .  .  . 
(you're  wrong.')  She's  the  girl  who  never 
slips  into  a  bathing  suit  or  summer  dress, 
pair  of  slacks  or  shorts,  without  first 
slipping  into  a  Playtex  Panty  Brief.' 


Introducing  the  New  Playtex 


Panty  Brief 


And  now,  newer  than  new,  and  waiting  for  you  is  the 
Playtex  High  Style  Panty  Brief.'  Magically  slimming  latex 
outside,  cloud-soft  fabric  inside,  and  a  lovely  non-roll  top. 
Comfortable,  flexible  .  .  .  and  not  a  seam,  stitch  or  bone 
to  show  through— anyivhere !  Washes  in  seconds,  dries 
quickly,  and  works  miracles— no  matter  ivhat  your  size. 

Look  for  Playtex®  High  Style  Panty  Brief  in  the  slim 
tube  in  department  stores  and  specialty  shops  everywhere. 

And  for  extra  control,  the  famous  Playtex  Magic-Controller 
Panty  Brief  with  hidden  "finger"  panels.  Only  16.95.  The  bra  on 
the  wall  is  the  new  Playtext  Livingt  Bra*... "custom-contoured" 
of  elastic  and  nylon.  $3.95       tTr.idcmaiK 


eiwoo  International  latex  Corp'n.  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  . 


Playtex  . 
Dover  Del  -k  In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd. 


.  known  everywhcie  as  tlie  girdle  in  the  ulllVl  tube.  (^ 
.  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont.  *u.s.A.  and  toieign 


fDaytime  Diary 


All  programs  are  heard  Monday  through  Friday;   consult 
local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


I 


BACKSTAGE  WIFE  Mary  Noble's 
efforts  to  forget  her  husband's  involve- 
ment with  actress  Elise  Shephard  have 
plunged  her  into  a  difficult  situation  with 
HoUywood  producer  Malcolm  Devereaux, 
who  has  promised  her  a  starring  career  in 
movies.  BeUeving  Malcolm's  promises  are 
prompted  by  his  love  for  her,  Mary  refuses 
his  offers,  but  she  is  unprepared  for  the 
clever  device  by  which  he  hopes  to  sep- 
arate her  completely  from  Larry.  NBC 
Radio. 

TUE  BRMGHTER  DAY  New  Hope's 
project  for  erecting  a  great  Youth  Center 
has  led  the  Reverend  Richard  Dennis  down 
some  dangerous  byways  and  into  some 
strange  company.  Just  what  is  the  situa- 
tion between  Lydia  Herrick  and  her 
brother-in-law,  Don  Herrick,  the  tempera- 
mental architect  who  may — or  may  not — 
plan  the  Center?  Will  Lucius  Devereux 
regret  sponsoring  him?  Or  will  Dr.  Dennis 
be  able  to  help  still  another  troubled  soul? 
CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

COXCERNIXG      MISS      MARLOWE 

Ever  since  her  meeting  with  djmamic  Jim 
Gavin,  Maggie  Marlowe  has  been  unable 
to  regain  the  tranquillity  she  sought  so 
eagerly.  Now  the  death  of  Jim's  estranged 
wife  has  opened  a  new  chapter  of  heart- 
ache for  Maggie — heartache  and  perhaps 
other  emotions  as  well.  Although  she  can- 
not deny  her  strong  feeling  for  Jim,  will 
this  latest  tragedy  stand  in  the  way  of 
any  future  happiness  they  wish  to  share? 
NBC-TV. 

TBE  DOCTOR'S  WIFE  An  unex- 
pected problem  enters  the  Palmers'  lives 
when  young  Dr.  Fred  Conrad  falls  in  love 
with  Julie.  But  the  difficult,  spoiled  young 
girl  who  loves  Fred  is  hardly  the  kind  to 
discourage  easily.  How  much  of  a  hand 
can  Julie  herself  take  in  turning  Fred 
toward  Eileen?  And  is  Dan  just  a  trifle 
overconfident  about  his  conviction  that  his 
young  assistant's  feeling  for  Julie  is  un- 
fortunate only  for  Fred  himself?  NBC 
Radio. 

FIRST  LOVE  From  the  fu-st  day  of 
Zach's  friendship  with  Petey,  Laurie  knew 
that  she  was  the  kind  of  girl  who  means 


trouble.  But  not  even  Laurie  anticipated 
the  kind  of  trouble  Petey  would  bring  to 
her  marriage — the  trouble  that  exploded 
into  Zach's  trial  for  Petey's  murder. 
Knowing  that  her  husband  must  be  in- 
nocent, Laurie  begins  the  tortuous  un- 
raveling of  Petey's  past.  Where  do  her 
suspicions  lead?    NBC-TV. 

THE  GREATEST  GIFT  In  most  large 
communities  a  woman  doctor  is  no  longer 
an  oddity,  but  in  a  small  town  there  is  still 
a  certain  amount  of  skepticism,  and  Dr. 
Eve  Allen  has  had  an  uphill  fight  for  the 
acceptance  she  has  finally  won.  Will  an 
accident  for  which  she  is  not  responsible 
result  in  the  loss  of  ground  she  cannot 
hope  to  regain?  Can  she  continue  to  ac- 
cept Dr.  Stone's  help  under  the  circum- 
stances?   NBC-TV. 

THE  GUIDING  LIGHT  Some  time  ago 
Bertha  warned  her  friend,  Kathy  Lang, 
that  it  was  a  mistake  to  expect  that  Dr. 
Jim  Kelly  would  continue  trading  his  de- 
votion for  the  careless  friendship  which  is 
all  Kathy  has  offered.  But  Kathy  cannot 
forget  her  former  husband,  Dick  Grant,  or 
her  stubborn  feeling  that  despite  Dick's 
disappearance,  there  is  still  something 
ahead  for  them.  Will  she  throw  happiness 
away?    CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

H.4WKI2VS  FALLS  Ever  since  Lona 
and  Dr.  Floyd  Corey  married,  they  have 
met  and  solved  one  problem  after  another 
in  fairly  perfect  accord.  But  Lona  finds  it 
hard  to  be  patient  when  Floyd  deliberately 
flouts  advice  about  his  own  health  in 
order  to  continue  looking  after  that  of  his 
patients.  Will  he  drive  himself  too  far 
unless  Lona  insists?  And  if  she  does  in- 
sist, what  will  happen  to  their  relationship? 
NBC-TV. 

HILLTOP  HOUSE  Fortunately  for  Julie  • 
Nixon's  peace  of  mind,  orphanage  prob- 
lems for  which  she  is  responsible  keep  her 
from  becoming  too  intimately  involved  in 
the  threatened  breakup  of  her  cousin 
Nina's  marriage.  Though  she  knows  that 
the  unstable  Nina  is  heading  for  trouble, 
Julie  has  never  believed  that  outsiders, 
however  affectionate  and  interested,  should 


interfere  between  man  and  wife.  But  what 
will  stop  Nina?    CBS  Radio. 

THE  IXNER  FLAME  Dorie  Lawlor 
faces  the  most  difficult  decision  of  her  life 
when  she  agrees  to  leave  town  in  return 
for  her  grandmother's  putting  up  the 
money  for  Walter  Manning's  trial.  Will 
three  months  away  from  Walter  cure 
Doric's  love?  Does  Walter's  wife  Portia 
really  believe  that  she  has  lost  him  to 
Dorie?  It's  Portia's  nature  to  fight — but  as 
a  lawyer  she  knows  a  hopeless  fight  when 
she  sees  one.    CBS-TV. 

JOYCE  JORDAN,  M.D.  As  is  always 
the  case  with  older  sisters,  Joyce  feels  a 
big  responsibility  toward  her  star-struck 
young  sister  Kitty,  who  thinks  she  wants 
to  be  a  dancer  instead  of  marrying  the  nice 
young  man  who  has  asked  her.  Will  Mike 
Hill's  sponsorship  of  Kitty  embarrass  him? 
How  much  of  Kitty's  ambition  is  mere 
envy  of  her  big  sister,  whose  success  as  a 
doctor  has  not  prevented  her  from  de- 
veloping as  a  woman?    NBC-TV. 

JUST  PLAIN  BILL  For  a  long  time 
Bill  Davidson  has  dedicated  himself  to 
helping  others,  and  all  of  Hartville  looks 
upon  him  as  a  man  to  whom  friends  can 
bring  their  troubles.  But  as  Bill  finds  that 
more  and  more  of  late  he  must  involve  his 
daughter  Nancy  and  her  husband,  Kerry 
Donovan,  he  begins  to  wonder  iJE  he  is 
justified  in  allowing  danger,  which  he 
himself  does  not  fear,  to  come  so  close  to 
them.    NBC  Radio. 

LORENZO  JONES  Belle's  long  fight  to 
help  Lorenzo  regain  his  memory  and  re- 
instate their  marriage  receives  a  serious 
setback  with  the  murder  of  Roger  Caxton. 
Fearful  that  this  tragedy  will  drive  them 
further  apart.  Belle  accepts  the  help  of 
Denis  Scott,  even  though  she  knows  that 
he  is  in  love  with  her.  Will  the  young 
writer  be  true  to  his  promise  to  help,  or 
has  he  some  other  scheme  of  his  own  to 
win  Belle  himself?    NBC  Radio. 

T 
LOVE  OF  LIFE  In   a  misguided   desire    V 
to  protect  Vanessa,  Paul  Raven  has  fought    r 
desperately  to  prevent  a  meeting  between 
(Continued  on  page  22) 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


7158 


705 


7158-^Easiest   stitches    (mainly   quick 
cross-stitch  and  outline)    make  the  prettiest 
designs  ever.  Transfer  of  embroidery  motifs; 
twelve  ballet  dancers,  5%   to   7%  inches 
tall;  32  flowers,  1  to  3  inches.  25(} 

705 — Mom,  be  thrifty:  Use  remnants  for 
boy-or-girl  play  tops  and  pants.  They're 
cool  and  comfortable!  Pattern  pieces  in 
sizes   for   6-month,    1-year,    18-month   babies. 
Transfer  of  embroidery  included.  250 

637 — Her  full  skirt's  a  protective  cover 
for  your  electric  mixer.  Easy-to-make — 
use    scraps.   Pattern   pieces,   transfer   of 
embroidery  motifs,  complete  directions.  25^ 


T 
V 
A 

12 


7272 — Add  a  touch  of  real  luxury  to  your 
room.   Crisp,  dainty  pineapple-design 
crochet  forms  a  new  and  different  lacy 
chair-set.  Directions  included.  250 

7245 — ^Just   three   main   pattern   parts — easy 
to  make.  And  that  frosty  embroidery  is  a 
fun-to-do   fashion   touch.  Misses'  Sizes 
12-20.  Pattern  pieces,  transfer  of 
embroidery   motifs.   State   size.   250 

874 — One  hexagon    (20  inches  diagonally, 
point  to  point) — pineapple  design — makes 
a  centerpiece;  two  a   scarf;  seven  a   cloth! 
Crochet  a  20-inch  hexagon  in  No.  30  Mercer- 
ized cotton ;   larger  in  knitting  and  crochet 
cotton;   smaller  in   No.  50   cotton.  250 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each 
New  York  11,  N.  Y.    Add  five  cents  for 


pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.    Send  an  additional  250  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


For  the  Easiest  Permanent 
of  Your  Life  . . . 


SET  IT  / 


N 


Set  yoiir  pin-curls  just  as  you  always  do, 
_      No  need  for  anyone  to  help. 


^f        WET  IT  / 


Apply  CASUAL  lotion  just  once. 
15  minutes  later,  rinse  with  clear  water. 


fcASUAL 

PIN-CURL  A 


FORGET  IT/ 


That's  all  there  is  to  it !  CASUAL  is 

self-neutralizing.  There's  no  resetting. 

Your  work  is  finished  I 


Naturally  lovely,  carefree  curls 

that  last  for  weeks . . . 

Casual  is  the  word  for  it . . .  soft,  carefree  waves 

and  curls  — never  tight  or  kinky  —  beautifully  manageable, 

perfect  for  the  new  flattering  hair  styles  that  highlight  the  softer, 

natural  look.  Tonight  — give  yourself  the  loveliest  wave 

of  your  life— a  Casual  pin-curl  permanent! 

takes  just  15  minutes  more  than  setting  your  hair! 

$1.50  PLUS  TAX 


T 
V 
R 

13 


MEET 
ALICE  JACKSON 


Her  pearls  came  unclasped  as  Alice  donated  blood  on 
TV,  but  the  show  helped  the  Red  Cross  meet  its  quota. 


14 


Mennber  of  the  pulpit  committee,  Alice  chats 
with  Rev.  Sherrard  of  the  First  Baptist  Church. 


Friendliness,  sincerity  and 

ingenuity  make  her  W JAR-TV  program 

a  daily  highlight  for  Rhode  Islanders 


EARLIER  this  year,  when  Ahce  Jackson  was  in  a 
hospital   with   virus   pneumonia,   her  WJAR-TV 
viewers  sent  so  many  cards  and  letters  they  had 
to  be  brought  in  to  Alice  by  the  basket-full.  "The 
attendants  and  nurses  were  amazed,"  Alice  recalls, 
"and  I  was,  too.    I  always  knew  I  had  a  wonderful 
audience  for  my  television  program  but  their  personal 
interest  in  my  welfare  certainly  thrilled  me."  .  .  . 
This  month,  Alice  marks  her  fifth  year  as  the  star 
of  Let's  Go  Shopping,  seen  weekdays  at  1  P.M.  During 
this  time,  her  sincere  and  lively  charm  have 
endeared  her  to  Rhode  Island  viewers,  both  young 
and  old,  male  and  female.  A  family  program,  Alice's 
half-hour  features  good  buys  in  clothing  and  house- 
hold products,  fashion  shows,  and  a  guest-room 
portion  where  Alice  interviews  representatives  of 
various  community  organizations  on  their  up -coming 
affairs.  .  .  .  Alice,  who  attended  the  University  of 
Hawaii  and  majored  in  home  economics  at  Cornell 
University,  served  as  a  dietitian  at  the  Rhode 
Island  School  of  Design  before  her  entry  into  radio 
and  then  TV.  On  or  off  camera,  her  life  is  closely 
allied  with  the  life  of  her  community.  Active  in 
church   affairs   since  the   age   of   six,   Alice   closes 
her  Friday  programs  with  an  inspirational  message 
delivered  alternately  by  a  minister,  priest  and 
rabbi.  .  .  .  Whenever  it  is  humanly  possible,  Alice 
attends  the  bazaars,  entertainments  and  numerous 
other  events  she  discusses  on  her  programs.  "I  don't 
like  to  disappoint  anybody,"  she  says  seriously. 
She  is  a  charter  member  of  American  Women  in  Radio 
and  Television  and  is  currently  TV  director  of  the 
New  England  Chapter  of  that  organization.  A  member 
of  the  Providence  Players  for  the  past  several  years, 
Alice  has  served  on  the  "front  of  the  house"  com- 
mittee for  eight  seasons.  "Everything  I  love  is  right 
around  me,"  she  says  of  her  home  on  Providence's 
historic  Benefit  Street,  "my  church,  the  Players, 
the  art  centers."     Alice's  busy   schedule   is   that   of 
a  woman  with  a  zest  for  life.  She  loves  to  travel, 
and  her  favorite  vacation  spot  is  Block  Island.  "If  I 
ever  decide  to  leave  the  States,"  she  says,  "I'll  go  to 
Hawaii.  Why,  I've  even  started  to  brush  up  on  the  uke 
for  my  visit  there  this  summer."  Wherever  she  travels, 
her  many  WJAR-TV  friends  wish  Alice  "Godspeed." 


Yes...  it's 

FLORIDA 

CALLING ! 


Did  you  say 

TOM 
MOORE  ? 


MBS 
VUUM 


LISTEN  to  this . . .  listen  every  weekday  to  the  MUTUAL  program  that  ships 
Florida  sunshine  all  over  the  country— through  the  sparkling  style  of 
its  emcee,  Tom  Moore,  and  his  star  performers  and  musicians.  Be  at  your 
phone  with  the  right  answer  to  an  intriguing  question  he'll  ask  you. 
WIN  a  10-day,  all-expenses-paid,  Florida  vacation  for  two.  You'll  be  glad 
you  listened . . .  glad  to  be  alive . . .  glad  of  FLORIDA  CALLING. 

Mondays  through  Fridays  11 :00  to  11 :25  NYT 

Presented  coast  to  coast  by  The  Florida  Citrus  Commission 

(See  local  listings  for  time  on  your  MUTUAL  station) 

MUTUAL  BROADCASTING  SYSTEM  -a  service  of  General  Teleradio  Inc. 


15 


What's  New  from  Coast 


•  By  JILL  WARREN 


Proud   parents   Dick  Van   Patfen  and   Pat   Poole  have  their  son 
baptized  Richard  Nels  by  Father  Scanlon.    Dick  is  Nels  on  Mama. 


Musicomic  Victor  Borge,  a  Person  To  Person  grad,  punctuates 
a  pet  story  for  Edward  R.  Murrow  at  New  York's  Barberry  Roonn. 


1 

sfcrf...       ..^^^^^^H 

W^~ 

*^'  ^^t^^m 

h- 

im 

Wi:X'-/~.>Z£ 

s 

^^mHHHH^HB 

Summer  brings  Julius  La  Rosa  to 
CBS-TV  with  his  own  daily  show. 


ON  JUNE  12,  NBC  Radio  will 
launch  an  exciting  new  program 
called  Monitor,  which  is  reported  to 
be  the  "last  word"  in  broadcasting. 
Monitor  will  be  heard  continuously 
from  8  A.M.  (Eastern  time)  Saturday 
to  midnight,  Sunday,  and  will  be 
divided  into  ten  four -hour  segments. 
An  elaborate  two-way  communica- 
tion system  has  been  devised  to  pick 
up  interesting  and  up-to-date  reports 
from  roving  correspondents  through- 
out this  country  and  Europe.  In  addi- 
tion to  giving  the  latest  news,  sports, 
weather,  local  and  special  features, 
Monitor  will  present  a  wide  variety 
of  entertainment — from  comedy  and 
drama  to  music  and  celebrity  inter- 
views. There  will  even  be  live  pick- 
ups from  NBC's  weekend  television 
shows — for  example,  on  Saturday 
night.  Monitor  listeners  might  hear, 
via  radio,  part  of  The  George  Gohel 
Show,  or  on  Sunday  night,  a  song  by 
Dean  Martin  on  the  Colgate  show. 

Julius  La  Rosa  is  all  set  to  start  his 
thirteen-week  summer  series  on 
CBS-TV,  the  night  of  June  27.  Julie 
will  replace  Perry  Como,  Jo  Stafford 
and  Jane  Froman — with  a  musical 
show,  of  course,  to  be  seen  Monday 
through  Friday,  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Meanwhile,  Perry  Como  is  deep  in 
plans  for  his  new  hour  show,  to  be 
seen  over  NBC -TV.  The  show  is 
scheduled  for  Saturday  night,  op- 
posite Jackie  Gleason,  and  will  start 
some  time  in  September. 

Good  news  for  Ethel  And  Albert 
fans:  The  popular  domestic  comedy 
will  be  a  part  of  CBS-TV's  summer 
schedule,  replacing  the  vacationing 
December  Bride  series  on  Monday 
nights,  as  of  June  20.  Peg  Lynch,  who 
also  writes  the  show,  is  Ethel  and 
Alan  Bunche  plays  Albert. 


16 


to  Coast 


Pert  Betty  Clooney  now  warbles 
as  a  regular  for  Robert  Q.  Lewis. 


Those  Whiting  Girls  is  the  name  of 
CBS-TV's  brand-new  show  which 
will  replace  I  Love  Lucy  on  Monday 
nights  dui-ing  the  warm  months.  It's 
a  musical-variety  half-hour,  starring 
Margaret  and  Barbara  WTiiting. 
This  is  the  first  time  the  sisters  have 
worked  together  professionally. 

The  energetic  Sid  Caesar  will  be 
his  own  summer  replacement  on 
NBC-TV — but  as  a  producer,  not  as 
a  performer.  Sid's  summer  stint  will 
star  comedian  Phil  Foster  as  a  bus 
driver,  and  will  combine  variety 
along  with  a  story  line.  In  the  vocal 
spotlight  will  be  baritone  Bill  Hayes, 
who  was  formerly  featured  on  Your 
Show  Of  Shows,  and  Bobby  Sher- 
wood will  be  the  orchestra  leader. 
Carl  Reiner,  a  familiar  performer  on 
Caesar's  Hour,  will  direct  the  hour- 
long  proceedings  which  start  Monday 
night.  June  27. 

CBS  Radio  has  come  up  with  an 
ambitious  new  musical  show  called 
The  Woolworth  Hour,  featuring 
Percy  Faith's  orchestra  and  chorus 
and  Macdonald  Carey  as  emcee.  The 
theme  of  this  Sunday-afternoon  offer- 
ing is  "What's  New  in  Music,"  and 
will  cover  everything  from  Bach  to 
ballet,  swing  to  grand  opera.  Weekly 
guests  wiU  include  leading  personali- 
ties from  the  music  world. 

Another  new  tune  show  which 
debuted  on  CBS  Radio  in  April  is 
Disk  Derby,  heard  Tuesday  through 
Friday  nights  and  featuring  strictly 
popular  music.  Fred  Robbins  is  em- 
cee-disc jockey,  and  the  Norman 
Paris  Trio  provides  live  musical  ac- 
companiment for  guest  artists.  On 
each  show,  Fred  also  plays  brand- 
new  recordings  and  the  favorites  are 
chosen  by  studio-audience  applause. 
(Continued  on  page  20) 


How  to  make  your  life 
a  bed  of  roses... 


7^  liilydd^/ee^^ j^ou,M<f 


i^-iLanu-eyU  M^^  7a^  (2<a. y^^MM/i^ 


(TUy 


cashmere  bouquet 


Cashmere 
BouaueT 


59^29^ 


Plus  Tax 


T 
V 
R 

17 


information  bootii 


Success  Story 

Would  you  give  us  some  information 
about  Carl  Reiner,  the  "second  banana"  on 
Caesar's  Hour  ore  NBC-TV? 

S.Q.,  Darien,  Conn. 

"I  started  at  $12  a  week  and,  through 
my  own  ingenuity,  hard  work  and  per- 
serverance,  I  ended  by  making  |8  a  week." 
This  is  Carl  Reiner's  story  of  his  brief 
business-world  career  following  his  gradu- 
ation from  Evander  Childs  High  School  in 
New  York.  His  show-business  career  is  a 
more  orthodox  success  story.  After  eight 
months  of  drama  school,  Carl,  at  17,  was 
acting  opposite  Virginia  Gilmore  in  a 
little-theater  group.  ...  In  1942,  Carl 
went  into  the  Army  and  was  stationed  in 
Hawaii  when  he  auditioned  for  Maurice 
Evans,  who  was  passing  through  with  his 
G.I.  version  of  "Hamlet."  After  the  audi- 
tion, the  company  toured  the  South 
Pacific  with  Reiner-written  revues  and 
skits.  .  .  .  Out  of  the  Army,  Carl  won  a 
road  company  lead  in  "Call  Me  Mister," 
then  appeared  on  Broadway  in  "In- 
side U.S.A."  and  "Alive  and  Kicking" — 
the  latter  being  a  musical  on  which  Max 
Liebman  did  considerable  work.  When 
Liebman  became  producer-director  of 
Your  Show  Of  Shows,  he  remembered  Carl 
and  hired  him.   Then,  when   Caesar  and 


Carl  Reiner 


Coca  got  their  own  shows,  Carl  went 
along  with  Sid  for  Caesar's  Hour.  .  .  . 
Carl  is  married  to  the  former  Estelle  Le- 
bost,  an  artist,  and  they  live — with  their 
two  children,  Robbie,  8,  and  Sylvia  Anne, 
6 — in  an  apartment  in  New  York.  "The 
Bronx!"  Carl  says  proudly. 

What's  Up.  Doc? 

/    would   like   to   know   about   Richard 
Boone,  ivho  is  host  on  NBC-TV's  Medic. 
D.N.,  Moorhead,  Minn. 

Richard  Boone's  first  encounter  with 
show  business  came  after  the  war  when 
he  attended  New  York's  Neighborhood 
Playhouse.  Before  that,  the  native  Cali- 
fornian  had  been  a  boxer  at  Stanford 
University  and  the  San  Diego  Army  and 
Navy  Academy,  spent  eighteen  months  in 
the  oilfields,  and  operated  a  charter  fish- 
ing craft.  During  the  war,  he  served  as  a 
Navy  air  crewman.  ...  At  the  Playhouse, 
Richard  became  interested  in  modern 
dance  and  appeared  in  three  terpsichorean 
productions.  He  performed  in  six  new 
plays  in  New  York  and  about  150  tele- 
vision shows  before  heading  for  Holly- 
wood. His  film  credits  include  "The  Robe," 
"Violent  Men,"  and  "Dragnet."  .  .  .  Coin- 
cidentally,  at  the  time  Richard  was  play- 
ing the  lead  in  Medic's  pilot  film,  about 
a  doctor  performing  a  Caesarean  section, 
his  own  wife  was  in  a  Santa  Monica  hos- 
pital giving  birth  to  their  first  child,  also 
by  Caesarean. 

Sherlock  Holmes 

Would  you  tell  me  about  Ronald  How- 
ard, who  plays  the  title  role  in  NBC-TV's 
Sherlock  Holmes  series?  I  love  his  "so 
very  English"  look.     V.P.,  Kingston,  N.  Y. 

Star  Ronald  Howard  and  the  Baker 
Street  detective  he  portrays  have  several 
things  in  common.  Both  graduated  from 
Cambridge  University,  where  both  began 
to  play  the  violin  for  their  own  amuse- 
ment. Ronald,  like  Sherlock  Holmes,  col- 
lects books  as  a  hobby  and  has  the  same 
charm  and  fine  sense  of  humor  as  the 
famous  detective.  Unlike  Holmes,  Ronald 
Howard  is  married  and  has  three  children. 
.  .  .  Born  thirty-six  years  ago  in  London, 
England,  Ronald  was  two  years  old  when 


he  was  brought  to  the  United  States  by  his 
famed  actor-father,  the  late  Leslie  How- 
ard. At  ten,  Ronald  returned  to  England, 
and  he  has  since  shuttled  between  both 
countries.  Before  war  broke  out  in  1939, 
he  had  worked  as  a  journalist  in  England. 
He  gave  this  up  to  join  the  Royal  Navy 
for  almost  seven  years  and,  after  the  war, 
resumed  his  theatrical  career  with  the 
BBC  television  in  London.  Among  the 
films  he  has  appeared  in  are  "Street  Cor- 
ner," "Queen  of  Spades,"  "Dark  Inter- 
lude" and  "Glad  Tidings."  His  favorite 
acting  role  was  as  Tom  Wrench  in  the 
stage  play,  "Trewlaney  of  the  Wells,"  and 
his  future  acting  plans  include  devoting 
one  full  year  to  acting  in  Shakespearean 
roles  with  England's  Old  Vic  Company. 

Familiar  Voice 

/  seem  to  remember  the  voice  of  Verna 
Felton,  who  now  appears  on  CBS-TV's 
December  Bride,  from  many  former  radio 
programs.  What  roles  did  she  play  on 
radio?  F.H.T.,  Levant,  Me. 

On  radio,  Verna  Felton  was  Dennis 
Day's  mother  and  Red  Skelton's  grand- 
mother. The  veteran  character  actress  has 
also  been  the  voice  behind  many  Walt 
Disney  creations  and  last  season  played 
Dean   Bradley  on  Meet  Mr.  McNulty. 


Ronald  Howard 


Patricia  Wheel 


Doctor's  Treat 

Would  you  give  me  some  information 
on  Patricia  Wheel,  who  plays  Peggy  Regan 
on  The  Guiding  Light,  on  CBS-TV  and 
CBS  Radio,  and  also  stars  on  The  Doctor's 
Wife   over   NBC   Radio? 

W.D.F.,  New  Orleans,  La. 

Slender,  dark-haired  Patricia  Wheel 
loves  commuting  between  the  hospitals 
on  TV  and  radio,  as  a  nurse  in  The  Guid- 
ing Light  and  as  a  medic's  spouse  on  The 
Doctor's  Wife.  In  fact,  Pat  says,  if  she 
weren't  already  an  actress,  she'd  enter 
nursing  school.  ...  In  private  life.  Pat  is 
the  newly-wed  wife  of  Eric  H.  A.  Teran. 
an  industrial  designer.  She  has  been  an 
actress  for  nine  years — or  since  the  age 
of  fourteen,  when  she  finished  school.  .  .  . 
Determined  to  be  an  actress.  Pat  spent 
four  years,  part  of  the  time  overseas,  as 
an  understudy  and  in  summer  stock.  She 
broke  into  radio  on  a  local  station  in  her 
native  New  York.  Her  Broadway  dream 
came  true  when  she  played  opposite  Jose 
Ferrer  in  "Cyrano"  and  with  Maurice 
Evans  in  "The  Browning  Version."  Her 
TV  break  was  a  part  in  an  early  serial. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested  in  joining,  write 
to  the  address  given — not  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror. 

Steve  Allen  Fan  Club,  c/o  Phyllis 
Myers,  21  Maxine  PL,  Akron  5,  Ohio. 

Range  Riders  Fan  Club  (Jack  Ma- 
honev  and  Dick  Jones),  c/o  Joanne  Col- 
lins. 3890  Bradley  Rd..  Westlake,  Ohio. 

Roy  Rogers  Fan  Club,  c/o  Sharon  Fili- 
pa,  Rt.  2,  Boyceville,  Wis. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION—If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


ARE  YOU  REALLY  LOVELY  TO  LOVE? 


Is  there  an  air  of  freshness 
about  you . . .  always? 


A  sweet,  appealing  air  of  freshness 
...  is  yours,  always  .  .  .  when  you  use 
Fresh  Cream  Deodorant. 

Fresh  keeps  you  free  from  embarrassing 
underarm  odor  and  stains.  Underarms  are 
dry!  For  Fresh  contains  the  most  highly 
effective  perspiration-checking  ingredient 
now  known  to  science. 

When  you  open  the  Fresh  jar  you'll 


discover  ...  its  delicate  fragrance  ...  its 
whiteness,  its  whipped  cream  smoothness. 
Not  a  trace  of  stickiness.  Not  a  trace  of 
greasiness.  Gentle  to  skin,  too. 

For  an  air  of  freshness  use  Fresh  Cream 
Deodorant  every  day — be  sure  you  are 
lovely  to  love,  always. 

/^m4 


poiatmn     AK 


is  a  registoiGd  trademaik  of  Pharma-Craft  Cor- 


nel distiihuted   in  Canada 


I  ^^ed/)  girl 

is  always 
lovely  to  love 


19 


EVEN  IF  YOU 

BRUSH  YOUR  TEETH 

ONLY  ONCE  A  DAY 

Colgate 

Dental  Cream 
Gives  The  Surest 

Protection 
All  Daylong! 


Brushing  For  Brushing,  It's  The  Surest 
Protection  Ever  Offered  By  Any  Tooth- 
paste! Because  Only  Colgate's— Of  All 
Leading  Toothpastes— Contains  Gardol* 
To  Guard  Against  Tooth  Decay 
Longer— Stop  Bad  Breath  Instantly! 


ASK  YOUR  DENTIST  HOW 
OFTEN  YOU  SHOULD  BRUSH 

YOUR  TEETH !  But  remember !  Even  if  you 
brush  only  once  a  day,  Colgate  Dental 
Cream  gives  the  surest  protection  all  day 
long !  Gardol,  Colgate's  wonderful  new  de- 
cay-fighter, forms  an  invisible  shield  around 
your  teeth  that  won't  rinse  off  or  wear  off 
all  day!  And  Colgate's  stops  bad  breath 
instantly  in  7  out  of  10  cases  that  originate 
in  the  mouth!  Fights  tooth  decay  12  hours 
or  more!  Clinical  tests  showed  the  greatest 
reduction  in  decay  in  toothpaste  history ! 


T 
V 
R 

20 


Colgate's  TradeMark  For  Sodium 
N-LauroyI  Sarcosinate. 


IT  CLEANS  YOUR  BREATH 
It  GUARDS  YOUR  TEETH! 


What's  New  from  Coast 

(Continued  -from  page  17) 


Warner  Brothers  and  the  American 
Broadcasting  Company  have  signed  a 
long-term  contract  which  calls  for  the 
Warners  studios  to  produce  a  series  of 
thirty-nine  full-hour  features  solely  for 
television.  The  weekly  series  will  pre- 
miere on  ABC-TV  September  13  and  will 
be  based  upon  three  full-length  Warners 
movies — "King's  Row,"  "Casablanca,"  and 
"Cheyenne."  Members  of  the  casts  have 
not  been  announced  as  yet,  but  they  will 
undoubtedly  include  some  up-and-com- 
ing new  personalities. 

The  reactions  to  Arthur  Godfrey's 
"mass  firing,"  as  it  was  called  in  broad- 
casting circles,  have  quieted  down — at 
least  for  the  time  being.  Marion  Mar- 
lowe is  happily  fulfilling  her  contract 
with  Ed  Sullivan  on  Toast  Of  The  Town; 
The  Mariners  are  busy  with  their  many 
concert  dates;  Haleloke  is  back  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands — or  due  to  leave  for 
there  any  minute;  and  Arthur's  three 
dismissed  writers  are  now  working  for 
Garry  Moore.  In  the  middle  of  all  the 
rumpus,  Carmel  Quinn,  the  new  Little 
Godfrey,  announced  that  she  had  been 
married  for  two  years  to  her  manager. 
Bill  Fuller,  and  that  they  have  a  baby 
daughter.  (A  complete  story  on  Carmel 
can  be  found  on  page  52.) 

Meanwhile,  a  few  predictions  on  the 
future  status  of  Mr.  Godfrey  and  his 
friends:  Janette  Davis  will  soon  forsake 
her  singing  chores  and  will  be  assigned  a 
production  job  on  the  Godfrey  shows; 
Lu  Ann  Simms  will  not  return  to  the 
Godfrey  programs  following  the  birth 
of  her  baby  in  September;  and  it's  only 
a  question  of  time  before  the  McGuire 
Sisters  and  Frank  Parker  part  company 
with  Mr.  G.  .  .  .  I  could  be  wrong,  but 
we'll  see. 


Th 


IS    n 


That: 


Songstress  Betty  Clooney  has  joined 
the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  cast  as  a  regular 
member   of  his   Monday-through-Friday 


TV  show  and  will  also  be  heard  on  Bob's 
radio  program.  Betty  took  over  for  Jaye 
P.  Morgan,  who  left  the  Lewis  levities  to 
go  on  a  personal-appearance  tour. 

Dennis  James  and  Old  Gold  Cigarettes 
have  discontinued  their  partnership — at 
least  for  the  time  being — but  it's  strictly 
a  friendly  affair.  Because  he  is  so  busy 
with  his  other  shows  and  was  doing  only 
commercials  for  them,  Dennis  and  Old 
Gold  agreed  to  part  company  until  this 
fall.  Then,  Old  Gold  plans  to  come  up 
with  a  show  of  his  own  for  Dennis,  as 
they  consider  him  one  of  the  best  sales- 
men they  ever  had. 

Eleanor  Powell's  West  Coast  show, 
Faith  Of  Our  Children,  may  go  network 
soon  over  ABC-TV.  This  popular  re- 
ligious program  for  youngsters  won  an 
Elmmy  Award  for  the  former  dancing 
star,  and  it  would  certainly  be  a  welcome 
addition  to  the  coast-to-coast  TV 
schedule. 

Betty  Johnson  and  Dick  Noel  have 
been  signed  as  regular  vocalists  on  Don 
McNeill's  Breakfast  Club.  After  Johnny 
Desmond  and  Eileen  Parker  left,  Don  ex- 
perimented with  different  singers  every 
week,  and  has  now  chosen  Betty  and  Dick 
for  the  permanent  spots. 

Joan  Alexander,  of  The  Name's  The 
Same,  and  her  husband,  Arthur  Stanton, 
are  beaming  over  the  arrival  of  their  first 
visit  from  the  stork,  a  baby  boy  whom 
they  have  iiamed  Adam.  Joan  also  has  an 
eight-year-old  daughter,  Jane,  by  a  pre- 
vious marriage. 

Ralph  Edwards  knows  where  his  pay- 
check is  coming  from,  for  at  least  the  next 
five  years.  He  has  just  signed  an  exclu- 
sive contract  with  NBC  for  his  personal 
services  and  for  the  This  Is  Your  Life 
series  for  that  length  of  time. 

The  sponsors  of  Mr.  Peepers  are  drop- 
ping the  show  sometime  this  month,  after 
three  years  of  telecasting.  Unfortunately, 
the  ratings  have  been  down,  even  though 
the  show   is  still  quite  popular.     Wally 


Liberace's  name  on  the  dotted  line  means  he'll  ploy  the  dramatic  film 
role  of  a  pianist  in  "Sincerely  Yours"  for  Jack  Warner  of  Warner  Bros. 


rr 


to  Coast 


Cox's  futare  plans  are  still  indefinite  at 
this  point,  but  his  producers  plan  to  ex- 
periment with  a  change  of  format  for  him. 
Our  Miss  Brooks  will  be  a  full-length 
movie  soon,  with  Eve  Arden  in  the  star 
role,  of  course.  Production  is  set  to  start 
this  summer,  while  her  popular  TV  show 
is  ofif  the  air. 

Steve  Allen  has  added  another  accom- 
pUshment  to  his  many  talents — a  book, 
called  Steve  Allen's  Bop  Fables,  which  is 
comprised  of  four  bop -talk  fairy  tales: 
"Goldilocks  and  the  Three  Cool  Bears," 
"Three  Mixed-Up  Little  Pigs,"  "Crazy  Red 
Riding  Hood,"  and  "Jack  and  the  Real 
Flip  Beanstalk." 

Mulling  The  Mail: 

B.  B.,  Pomeroy,  O.:  Faye  Emerson  and 
Skiteh  Henderson  have  no  children  of 
their  own,  though  Faye  has  a  son,  Scoop, 
by  her  first  marriage.  .  .  .  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  J.  L.,  Cincinnati,  O.:  Rin  Tin  Tin, 
the  dog  star,  does  his  own  barking  on  the 
television  show,  which  is  filmed,  but  on 
the  radio  program,  actor  Frank  Milano 
"imitates"  Rin.  . .  .  Mrs.  J.  J.  M.,  Cheyenne, 
Wyo.:  Les  Paul's  and  Mary  Ford's  baby 
was  born  prematurely  but,  unfortunately, 
lived  only  a  few  days. . . .  Mrs.  H.  E.,  Baby- 
lon, N.  Y.,  and  others  who  asked  how  to 
get  tickets  to  TV  and  radio  shows:  TV 
Radio  Mirror  has  no  way  of  obtaining 
tickets  for  readers.  The  best  way  is  to 
write  in  advance,  directly  to  the  show  you 
want  to  see,  or  to  the  Ticket  Department 
of  the  network  or  station  broadcasting  the 
program.  .  .  .  Miss  Y.  O'C,  Memphis, 
Term.:  You  are  right,  Mary  Martin's 
"Peter  Pan"  production  will  be  repeated 
by  NBC-TV,  but  not  until  the  coming 
Christmas  season. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  ...  ? 

Pat  Marshall,  who  until  recently  sang 
on  the  Tonight  television  show?  Pat  left 
the  Steve  Allen  program  in  order  to  pre- 
pare a  night-club  act,  which  is  presently 
being  written  for  her,  and  she  hopes  to 
tour  the  country  during  the  summer. 

Ransom  Sherman,  one-time  popular 
emcee  on  the  old  Club  Matinee  radio  sho'w 
and  on  many  other  programs?  Ransom 
has  been  operating  a  magic-gag-gift  shop 
in  Hollywood  and  hasn't  been  active  at 
all  in  radio.  However,  he  is  doing  some 
TV  film  work,  mainly  spieling  commer- 
cials, some  of  which  he  has  already  shot 
and     which    will     be     shown     this     fall. 

Walter  O'Keefe,  the  well-known  quiz- 
master and  emcee,  who  last  appeared  as 
a  simimer  substitute  on  Two  For  The 
Money?  Walter  has  been  working  on  a 
new  night-club  act  while  living  in  Holly- 
wood, and  recently  tried  it  out  in  Cali- 
fornia. He  hopes  to  play  supper  clubs 
soon  and  eventually  wovdd  Uke  to  do  guest 
shots  on  TV. 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of 
your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or  won- 
der what  has  happened  to  someone  on 
radio  or  television,  drop  me  a  line:  Miss 
Jill  Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East 
42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.,  and  I'll  try  my 
best  to  find  out  for  you  and  put  the  in- 
formation in  the  column.  Unfortunately,  I 
don't  have  space  to  answer  all  questions, 
so  I  try  to  cover  those  personalities  and 
shows  about  whom  I  receive  the  most  in- 
quiries. Sorry,  no  personal  answers,  so 
please  do  not  enclose  stamped  envelopes 
or  postage,  as  they  will  not  be  returned. 


When  an  argument  gets  hectic,  should  you— 

n  Tape  record  it  Q  Break  it  up  Q  Take  the  loser's  side 


One  man's  politics  (or  ball  club  or  disc 
collection)  can  often  be  another  man's 
poison  ivy  !  So  before  either  arguer  blows 
his  stack,  take  over.  Shatter  the  chatter  — 
tactfully.  Maybe  with  music;  or  a  funny 
story;  anything  to  change  the  subject  and 


save  the  party  from  bogging  down.  You  can 
save  yourself  many  an  anxious  moment  at 
calendar  time,  as  well.  For  when  you  choose 
Kotex*,  you're  getting  the  softness,  safety, 
complete  absorbency  you  need— to  maintain 
your  poise,  your  peace  of  mind. 


Quick  >vay  out  of  your  hero's  heart? 

I    I  Confess  you  can't  cook  Q  Kiss  and  tell 

Q  8e  o  mombo  maniac 

All  those  sweet  nothings  he  whispered  in 
her  ear,  last  night  ...  all  cancelled,  in 
nothing  flat!  Why?  Because  today  a  com- 
plete playback  reached  his  blushing  ears  ! 
Only  a  chrome  dome  babbles  to  her  cronies. 
It's  a  fatal  mistake.  On  certain  days,  you  need 
make  no  mistakes  about  sanitary  protection 
—  not  with  Kotex.  For  this  napkin  can  be 
worn  on  either  side,  safely;  and  you  get 
special  softness  that  holds  its  shape. 


Is  the  longer  torso  tine  strictly  for— 

I    I  Beanpole  stature  Q  Chubby  contours 

I    I  Little  middles  Q  Laughs 

That  long,  lean  midriff  look  —  got  it?  Better 
get  with  it,  especially  if  your  competition's 
hand-span  waisted!  Do  bending,  stretching 
exercises  that  pull  in  your  tummy.  And  of 
course  avoiding  greasy  or  gooey  goodies  can 
help  whittle  your  middle.  At  "that"  time, 
too  (even  in  a  slim  skirted  dress)  you  can  meet 
all  eyes  serenely  —  what  with  Kotex  and  those 
flat  pressed  ends  preventing  telltale  outlines. 
Try  all  3  sizes  of  Kotex;  learn  which  suits  you. 


More  women,  choose  KOTEX  -than  all  other  sanitary  napkins 


Made  for  each  other— Kotex  and  Kotex  sani- 
tary belts  —  and  made  to  keep  you  comfortable. 
Of  strong,  soft-stretch  elastic,  they're  designed 
to  prevent  curling,  cutting  or  twisting.  So  light- 
weight! And  Kotex  belts  stay  flat  even  after 
many  washings.  Buy  two  . .  .for  a  change! 


"T.  M.  REG.   U.  S.   PAT.  OFF. 


T 
V 
R 

21 


^*^w(«^/x4«^ 


T 
V 
R 

22 


Matching  Talc  and  Toilet  Water! 

. . .  Co-Stars  in  the  fragrance  used 
by  more  women  than  any  other  in 
the  world!  Created  to  keep  you 
delightfully  cool  all  through  the 
summer  months,  these  Evening  in 
Paris  Co-Stars  are  available  at 
cosmetic  counters  everywhere. 

for  limited  time  only! 

BOURJOIS— Created  in  France  .  .  .  Made  in  U.S.A. 


Daytime  Diary 


(Continued  from  page  11) 


her  and  his  first  wife,  Judith.  But  Paul's 
furtiveness  has  worsened  the  entire  situ- 
ation. Can  his  friends,  CoUey  and  Grace 
Jordan,  persuade  him  to  tell  the  truth 
about  the  child  of  his  first  marriage  before 
it  is  too  late?  And  is  Van  far  more  re- 
sourceful than  Paul — or  Judith — realizes? 
CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  All  other  activities  go 
by  the  board  as  Ma  concentrates  on  the 
tragic  problem  of  Gladys  and  Joe — the 
problem  made  more  tragic  by  Gladys'  con- 
viction that  their  sickly  httle  daughter  is 
in  some  way  her  fault,  and  that  she  has 
failed  Joe  as  a  wife.  Can  Ma  solve  the 
problem  of  restoring  Gladys  to  mental  and 
emotional  health?  Ma  knows  Joe's  strength, 
but  is  he  strong  enough  to  face  what  may 
lie  ahead?  CBS  Radio. 

OVR  GAL  SUNDAY  Leslie  Northurst's 
careful  plan  to  win  the  Brinthrope  title 
and  estates  from  Lord  Henry  is  so  well 
organized  that  for  a  time  it  almost  seems 
that  the  fraudulent  claim  may  succeed.  But 
at  last  Lord  Henry  feels  he  can  combat 
Northurst's  attack  on  his  inherited  posi- 
tion. Will  he  be  as  successful  in  mending 
the  damage  Northurst  has  done  to  his 
marriage  with  Sunday?  Is  Sunday  justified 
in  fearing  the  future?    CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  YOUNG'S  FAMMLY  In  spite 
of  the  many  weeks  since  Carter's  disap- 
pearance, Peggy  Young  Trent  cannot  be- 
lieve that  she  will  never  see  him  again. 
Though  the  family  feels  perhaps  a  shade 
less  conviction,  they  have  not  for  a 
moment  relaxed  their  efforts  to  track  Car- 
ter down.  But  as  each  lead  dies  out  in 
failure,  it  almost  seems  that  a  miracle  will 
be  needed  if  they  are  ever  to  trace  him. 
Will  they  be  too  late?    NBC  Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  Though  lawyer  Perry 
Mason  does  not  yet  know  it,  the  apparently 
simple  case  into  which  he  was  led  by 
Lois  Monahan  has  ramifications  of  tre- 
mendous importance.  For  Lois  is  not 
what  she  appears,  nor  is  Eve  Merriweather, 
who  bears  the  name  of  the  famous  in- 
dustrialist Sam  Merriweather  as  the  re- 
sult of  something  that  happened  many 
years  ago.  Who  and  what  is  Eve — and 
what  will  it  mean  to  Perry's  investigation? 
CBS  Radio. 

TUE  RIGHT  TO  HAPPiNESS  Fric- 
tion between  Carolyn  and  her  husband. 
Miles  Nelson,  increases  despite  his  support 
of  her  during  her  trial.  For  Annette 
Thorpe  still  plans  to  mastermind  Miles' 
political  career  and  has  not  given  up  hope 
of  taking  charge  of  his  personal  life,  as 
well.  Her  expert  interference  has  brought 
Carolyn's  marriage  closer  to  the  edge  of 
dissolution  than  it  has  ever  before  been. 
NBC  Radio. 

THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  Sooner  or  later 
Dr.  Jim  Brent  will  find  himself  unable  to 
continue  with  the  pretense  of  affection  he 
must  show  to  Sybil  Overton  in  order  to 
save  his  wife,  Jocelyn,  from  suffering  from 
Sybil's  carefully  contrived  plot.  What  will 
happen  when  Sybil  realizes  that  Jim  has 
been  faking  romantic  interest  in  order  to 
obtain  the  evidence  he  needs?  Is  her 
brother  Hugh  right  in  fearing  that  her 
mind  may  snap?    CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

Looking  forward  at  last  to  the  possibility  of 
a  future  with  Gil  Whitney,  Helen  Trent  is 
disturbed  by  the  obvious  effort  Gil's  secre- 
tary. Fay  Granville,  is  making  to  attract 
him.  And  Brett  Chapman,  watching  for 
every  chance  to  patch  up  his  own  broken 
romance  with  Helen,  may  succeed  in  con- 
vincing her  that  she  cannot  possibly  make 
the  right  decision  concerning  Gil.  Will 
Helen  turn  to  Brett  once  again?  CBS 
Radio. 

ROSEMARY  As  a  result  of  Bill's  fight 
against  the  narcotics  racket  in  Springdale, 
both  he  and  Rosemary  have  received 
threats  that  have  disturbed  Bill  more 
than  he  will  admit.  Rosemary,  meanwhile, 
knows  she  is  complicating  life  by  her  in- 
creasing attachment  for  little  Betsy,  niece 
of  her  neighbor,  Diane  Thompson.  Jxist 
who  and  what  is  Betsy's  father,  Ray 
Calder?     CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH  FOR  TOMORROW  When 
Nathan  Walsh  was  defending  her  on  a 
murder  charge,  nothing  was  further  from 
Joanne's  mind  than  that  she  and  he  would 
form  parts  of  a  triangle  of  which  her 
fiance,  Arthur  Tate,  is  the  third.  Will 
Nathan  be  able  to  keep  Arthur,  his  best 
friend,  from  learning  how  he  feels  about 
Joanne?  Will  Stu  and  Marge  Bergman,  in 
their  affectionate  efforts  to  help,  make 
everything  much  worse  before  it's  better? 
CBS-TV. 

SECOND  HUSBAND  The  many  prob- 
lems that  beset  a  remarried  widow  are 
complicated  for  Diane  Lockwood  by  the 
resentment  her  children  feel  for  her  hus- 
band, Wayne.  Though  Ted  and  Mimi  love 
their  mother  and  wish  for  her  happiness, 
they  cannot  bring  themselves  to  accept 
completely  Wayne's  position  as  their  step- 
father. Will  their  jealousy  and  lack  of 
cooperation  be  a  serious  handicap  to  this 
new  marriage?    CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECOND  MRS.  BURTON  In  or- 
der to  provide  his  autocratic  mother  with 
interests  that  will  take  her  mind  off  the 
Herald,  so  that  he  can  run  it  as  he  sees 
fit,  Stan  Burton  encourages  his  sister  Mar- 
cia's  plan  to  find  a  husband  for  the  wealthy 
dowager.  But  when  Buck  Halliday  turns 
up  Stan  fears  they  have  jumped  from  the 
frying  pan  into  the  fire.  Will  Mother  Bur- 
ton plight  her  troth  with  a  hypocritical 
fortune-hunter?     CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  The  hatred  of 
his  frustrated  sister-in-law  has  finally 
trapped  Peter  Ames  in  a  more  serious 
dilemma  than  he  believed  she  was  capable 
of  creating.  With  Pauline's  social  and 
financial  influence  turning  the  whole  town 
against  him,  Peter's  hopes  for  reinstating 
his  good  name  seem  dim  indeed.  But  Joe 
Sullivan,  the  young  reporter  who  is  so 
much  attracted  to  Peter's  daughter  Susan, 
has  some  ideas  of  his  own.    CBS-TV. 

STELLA  DALLAS  Stella  is  dehghted 
when  her  daughter  Laurel  and  her  son- 
in-law,  Dick  Grosvenor,  patch  up  their 
marriage  and  go  off  on  a  second  honey- 
moon. But  the  disastrous  end  to  that 
honeymoon  convinces  Stella  that  the  only 
way  to  save  Laurel's  happiness  is  to  de- 
stroy the  threat  presented  by  wealthy  Ada 


Dexter  and  her  son,  Stanley  Warrick.  Can 
Stella  prove  that  Ada  Dexter  is  insane? 
NBC  Radio. 

THIS  IS  NORA  BRAKE  With  the  con- 
fession of  Dan  Welch  that  he  murdered 
Fred  Molina,  Nora  feels  that  her  debt  to 
the  past  is  in  some  measure  paid,  and  that 
now  she  must  force  herself  to  accept  her 
doctor's  advice  and  make  new  friends  to 
take  the  place  of  her  dead  husband.  David 
Brown  is  more  than  ready  to  aid  in  this 
project,  but  Nora  soon  realizes  this  young 
man  is  not  quite  what  he  seems.  Will 
David's  sister  let  Nora  in  on  the  mystery? 
CBS  Radio. 

V.4I,f.4.VT  LADY  It  was  shock  enough 
for  Helen  Emerson  to  learn  that  her  love 
for  Chris  Kendall  was  hopeless  because  he 
had  a  wife  in  a  mental  home.  More  up- 
setting to  both  is  the  sudden  news  that 
Linda,  long  considered  beyond  recovery, 
has  made  such  strides  that  she  may  be- 
come an  out-patient.  How  will  Chris 
make  a  home  for  his  young  son  under 
these  circumstances?  How  will  Helen 
weather  the  shocking  news  from  her 
daughter  Diane?  CBS-TV. 

W'JEiV»V'  W  ARHEiV  AND  THE  NEWS 

Wendy's  job  as  editor  of  her  hometown 
paper  is  big  enough  to  take  up  all  her 
energies,  but  she  cannot  help  finding  time 
— more  and  more  of  it — for  the  charming 
Dr.  Dalton  and  his  even  more  beguiling 
little  daughter  Gretel.  WiU  Gretel's  devo- 
tion to  Wendy  lead  to  great  unhappiness 
for  the  child?  Or  does  she  suspect  some- 
thing that  the  grownups  are  a  long  way 
from  realizing?  CBS  Radio. 

WHEN  A  GIRL  MARRIES  The  long, 
hard  fight  to  defend  Harry  on  a  bribery 
charge  gets  off  to  a  brave  start,  for  Joan 
Davis  cannot  believe  that  anyone  who 
knows  her  husband  could  imagine  for  a 
moment  that  he  might  be  guilty.  But 
gradually  she  and  Harry  learn  the  full  ex- 
tent of  the  opposition  and  begin  to  suspect 
how  far-reaching  is  the  plan  of  which 
Harry  has  become  one  of  the  earliest  vic- 
tims. How  will  they  fight  this  unfamiliar 
enemy?    ABC  Radio. 

THE    WOMAN   IN   MY   HOUSE     As 

Jessie  Carter  knows,  bringing  up  a  family 
requires  a  variety  of  talents.  Over  the 
years  she  has  done  a  pretty  good  job  of 
exercising  them  all.  But  perhaps  the  most 
important  one  has  only  been  called  upon 
since  her  children  have  grown  up — the 
ability  to  point  out  to  them  when  the  time 
is  right  for  them  to  stand  on  their  own 
feet.  Will  she  discover  that  some  of  them 
are  not  able  to  do  it?     NBC  Radio. 

YOING  DR.  MALONE  The  one  per- 
son in  whom  Jill  Malone  confides  these 
days  is  David,  and  now  that  he  is  legally 
her  adopted  brother  her  father,  Dr.  Jerry 
Malone,  hopes  he  will  have  even  more  in- 
fluence with  her.  For  if  someone  doesn't 
change  Jill's  resentful  attitude  toward  her 
stepmother,  Tracey,  there  will  be  trouble, 
and  Jerry  feels  helpless  to  avoid  it.  What 
happens  when  Jill  inadvertently  finds  a 
weapon  in  Tracey's  past?  CBS  Radio. 

YOUNG  WIDDER  BROWN  Knowing 
that  her  husband,  Dr.  Anthony  Loring,  is 
still  in  love  with  Ellen  Brown,  whom  she 
tricked  him  into  jilting,  Millicent  Loring 
lays  a  complicated  plan  to  discredit  Ellen. 
But  the  plan  backfires  in  such  a  way  that 
Anthony  himself  is  seriously  involved,  and 
in  order  to  save  her  marriage  Millicent 
finds  herself  working  for  Ellen's  happiness 
by  promoting  her  marriage  to  Michael 
Forsythe.    NBC  Radio. 


Get  ready  for  summer  with  this 


spray  net 

H  if  BRAND 


No  other  hair 

spray  holds  a  wave 

in  place  so  softly  yet 

so  surely  ...  no  other  hair 

spray  manages  your  hair  so 

naturally.  And  now  laboratory 

tests  show  that  Helene  Curtis 

SPRAY  NET  is  om  hair  spray  that's  never,  never  sticky. 

No  wonder  so  many  milUons  of  women  insist  on 

genuine  Helene  Cixrtis  spray  net. 

Now  when  you  need  spray  net  most  (remember  summer's 
wilting  weather  is  aU  but  here)  Helene  Curtis  brings  you 
a  spray  net  Special  that  takes  care  of  all  your  hair  care 
problems.   Both  hair  spray  and  shampoo  for  only  $1.25, 
plus  tax.    Don't  wait  another  minute  for  your  Bonus  Package. 


CHOOSE  THE  ONE  THAT'S 
RIGHT  FOR  YOU  DURING  THIS 


NOW   IN   TWO   FABULOUS   FORMULAS 

NEW  SUPER  SOFT  SPRAY  NET  without  lacquer,  for 
gentle  control.  Created  especially  for  baby-fine 
hair,  casual  hair-dos. 

REGULAR  SPRAY  NET,  for  thick,  harder  to  manage 
hair,  for  more  elaborate  hair  styles.  The  favorite 
of  millions  of  women. 


Specr^l  Offer 

WmO  IT  NOW..'. 

STOCKS  Ak£  immDi 


•T.M.REQ.U.S.PAT.OFP* 


T 

V 
R 

23 


new 

bareness 
in  bathing 

suits 


Tampax  really  is  an  old  friend  to  millions 
of  girls  who  throng  the  pools  and  beaches 
during  the  Summer.  They've  learned 
that  no  matter  how  scanty  the  bathing 
suit  is,  Tampax  can't  possibly  "show." 
In  fact  (because  Tampax  isjnternal  sani- 
tary protection),  it  doesn't  absorb  any 
water  when  you  swim. 

Even  without  the  boon  of  swimming, 
however,  Tampax  would  still  be  the  ideal 
hot  weather  protection.  It  does 
away  with  bulky,  irritating, 
chafing  pads,  and  substitutes 
pure  surgical  cotton  .  .  .  firmly 
stitched  cotton  that's  so  soft 
and  comfortable,  you  can't  even  feel  it 
when  it's  in  place. 

Tampax  has  other  advantages  that 
make  it  appeal  especially  to  fastidious 
women.  There's  no  disposal  problem, 
for  example.  Wearer's  hands  needn't 
even  touch  the  Tampax  during  insertion 
or  removal.  And  there's  no  odor  problem! . . . 
Get  your  choice  of  3  absorbency  sizes  of 
Tampax  (Regular,  Super,  Junior)  at  any 
drug  or  notion  counter.  Month's  supply 
goes  into  purse.  Tampax  Incorporated, 
Palmer,  Mass. 


NO  BELTS 
NO  PINS 
NO  PADS 
NO  ODOR 


T 
V 
R 

24 


Invented  by  a  doctor — 
now  used  by  millions  of  women 


IVeKi^  Patterns 
for  You 


9120 — Juniors:    Note    the    flattering 
neckline,  contrast  inset  in  bodice,  whirl- 
ing  skirt,  open-side  jacket.  Jr.  Miss 
Sizes  11-17.  Size  13  dress,  3%  yards 
35-inch    fabric;    i/^    yard    contrast; 
jacket  1  yard.  35^ 

4523 — Half-sizes:    Keep   cool  in   this 
easy-to-sew,    easy-to-slip-into    style. 
Cut  to  fit  the  shorter,  fuller  figure. 
Half  Sizes   UVi-^Wz-   Size   I6I/2 
takes  4%   yards  35-inch  fabric.  35«? 


9146 — It's  a  beachcoat  for  surf-time,  an 
apron  for  clean-up  time.  See  the  big 
handy   pockets,   tabbed-to-nip   waist- 
line. Misses'  Sizes  12-20.  Size   16  takes 
2%  yards  35-in  fabric.  35^' 


4523 

SIZES 
141/2-241/2 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to: 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Department,  P.  O.  Box 
137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  N.  Y.  Add 
five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing. 


mmtmmmwm 


FEATHER  YOUR  NEST 
Contest  Winners 


HERE  they  are!  The  twenty-five 
lucky- — and  clever — winners  of 
TV  Radio  Mirror's  exciting  Feather 
Your  Nest  Contest,  along  with  the 
prizes  they  won.  Pictured  below  is  the 
handsome  grand  prize — the  Circle  "D" 
living  room.  The  Editors  wish  to 
thank  those  contestants  who  ex- 
pressed their  enjoyment  of  the  con- 
test— and  of  TV  Radio  Mirror. 


FIRST   PRIZE 
Circle  "D"  Living  Room 

Mrs.  Bertha  L.  Bird,  16  Lexington  Ave.. 
J^feedham  Heights,  Mass. 


24  RUNNERS-UP 
Morgan  Jones  Bedspread 

Mrs.  John  Jeskey,  R.D.  1, 
Amsterdam,  O. 

Mrs.  Charles  Lamich,  726  40th  St., 
Kenosha,  Wis. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Sobczak,  715    Wayne  Ave., 
West  Reading,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Gordon  H.  Smith,  32  E.  Austin  St., 
Duluth,  Minn. 

Mrs.  Frances  Burns,  116  Oak  St., 
Bath,  Me. 

Eloise  D.  Greene,  2604  Indiana   St., 
Topeka,  Kans. 

Mrs.  Stewart  P.  Crowell,  11  Mt.  Vernon  St., 
Reading,  Mass. 

Mrs.    Charles    Godshall,    136    Branch    St., 
Sellersville,  Pa. 


Sight   Light  Floor   Lamp 

Mrs.  Virginia  A.  Hahn,  R.D.  1,  Kirk  Rd., 
Canfield,  O. 

Mrs.  Richard  Horr,  Box  291, 
Monticello,  Minn. 

Mrs.  Kathleen  Duncan,  3939  S.  Delaware  St., 
Englewood,   Colo. 

Mrs.  Anna  Kutz,  2548  S.  Bronson  Ave., 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Mrs.  Ruth  E.  Rose,  517  Rollstone  St., 
Fitchburg,  Mass. 

Nona  Weber,  909  W.  Iowa  St., 
Evansville,  Ind. 

Mrs.  William  Mundhenk,  R.F.D.  4,  Box  A34, 
Kingston,  N.  Y. 

Mrs.  R.  Probst,  2228  Kitley  St., 
Indianapolis,  Ind. 


16-Piece   Stangl  Ware   Set 

Arnold  Anderson,  Jr.,  336  N.  16th  Ave., 
Phoenix,  Ariz. 

Mrs.  Fritz  Schoeb,  R.R.  2, 
Douglass,  Kans. 

Marjorie    H.   Guiles,   Mulberry    Pt., 
Guilford,  Conn. 

Mrs.  Myrald  Todd,  311  Christopher  St., 
Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Mrs.   Margaret    Brown,   143    Rutgers   St.. 
Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Mrs.  Orison  M.  Weaver,  640  Ada  Dr., 
Ada,  Mich. 

Mrs.  Andrew  K.  Ramsey,  Rte.  2, 
Lawrenceville  Hwy., 
Tucker,  Ga. 

Mrs.  Donald  Odom,  816  14th  St., 
Onawa,  Iowa. 


No  other 
deodorant 


gives  you 
so  much... 


JUMBO 
SIZE 


^us  tMc^^  a}i5&]0  cenf  stores 

•  STOPS  PERSPIRATION  ODOR.... instantly 

•  HANDY  STICK  FORM ....  no  mess,  no  waste 

•  SURE  PROTECTION,  all  day  long 

•  THRI FTY. . . .  big  stick  lasts  for  months 

•  GENTLE,  HARMLESS  to  skin  or  clothes 

•  DAINTY ....  greaseless,  never  sticky 

•  FRAGRANT  and  luxurious  as  a  lipstick 


Wi 


nners 


ch 


oice: 


Circle   "D"    living    room   in   sturdy   ranch-style   chestnut   oak. 


T 
V 
R 

25 


WVEC-TV's  Bob  McAllister 
finds  his  greatest  happiness 
in  entertaining  the  young 
in  years  and  young  at  heart 


Costumes  of  Faraway  Places  was  just  one  of  Bob's  contests  for  his  studio  oudience. 


MASTER  OF  MAKE-BELIEVE 


26 


AT  TWENTY,  Robert  C.  McAllister  is  the  sort  of  older 
brother  any  youngster  might  wish  for.    His  head  is 
filled  with  games,  funny  stories  and  magic  tricks.   He  has 
a  happy-go-lucky  cowboy  puppet  named  Chauncey 
DePue,  who  has  a  penchant  for  practical  jokes.   Another 
puppet,  Seymore  the  Snake,  lives  in  a  basket,  sings  with 
Bob,  Chauncey  and  their  young  friends,  and  changes 
the  words  of  popular  songs  to  include  his  favorite 
expression:  "Yok,  Yok."  And  Bob  has  just  created  a  new 
puppet,  Prunella  the  Plunger — a  man-chasing  spinster 
who  will  probably  drive  Chauncey  to  fulfill  his  pet  threat: 
"I'll  sock  you  right  in  the  nose."  .  .  .  Happily  for  Virginia 
youngsters.  Bob  plays  older  brother-magician- 
ventriloquist-emcee  on  the  Boh  And  Chauncey  Show, 
seen  weekdays  at  6  P.M.  on  Station  WVEC-TV.  The  show 
has  a  Western  motif  and  more  than  10,000  youngsters 
from  the  ages  of  three  to  fifteen  belong  to  Bob's  Ranch 
House  Club.  .  .  .  Born  June  2,  1935,  in  Philadelphia,  Bob 
went  to  Granby  High  in  Norfolk  and  then  to  the 
Richmond  Professional  School.  His  high  school  assembly 
programs  led  to  appearances  at  charity  affairs  and  then 
to  professional  dates.  Bob's  big  break  came  during  a  visit 
to  New  York  when  he  stood  in  front  of  the  big  window 
of  the  NBC-TV  studio,  where  Today  is  televised,  and 
casually  chatted  with  Chauncey.    Dave  Garroway  noticed 
the  interest  he  was  creating  and  invited  Bob  and 
Chauncey  inside  for  a  TV  interview.    Then,  with  the 
help  of  the  people  involved  in  the  Today  show,  auditions 
were  arranged  for  Ted  Mack's  Original  Amateur  Hour, 
where  Bob  and  Chauncey  became  two-time  winners. 
Next  came  a  radio  program  on  Richmond's  WRVA  and 
then,  a  year  ago,  their  present  show  on  WVEC-TV.  .  .  . 
Bob  lives  quietly  with  his  parents  in  a  ranch-type  home 
on  Shenandoah  Avenue  in  Norfolk.   The  house  is  filled 
with  comic  gadgets  such  as  a  squirting  telephone,  dribble 
glasses  and  ice  cubes  with  bugs  in  them.   Bob  loves  to 
amaze  youngsters  and  oldsters  with  his  magic  tricks, 
double-talk  and  gimmicks,  and  visitors  never  fail  to 
laugh  when,  with  Bob's  assistance,  his  cocker  spaniel  Taffy 
says   "Hello"   to   them   or   suddenly   declares,   "I'm 
hungry!"  .  .  .  Vice-president  of  the  Local  Ring  of  Inter- 
national Brotherhood  of  Magicians  and  the  Children's 
Magic  Organization,  Bob  recently  won  a  trophy  for  the 
"Best  Comedy  Magic  and  Ventriloquist  Act"  at  the 
Convention  of  Magicians  Alliance  of  Eastern  States.    From 
all  indications,   Bob's  thousands  of  young  viewers 
delightedly  second  the  verdict  of  the  professionals. 


Director  Don   Kreger  and   Bob  confer  with  Seymore  the 
Snake  on  the  day's  enchantment  for  their  WVEC  viewers. 


Bob  hardly  can  get  a  word  in  edgewise  as  he  relaxes 
at  honne  with  Chauncey  and  his  cocker  spaniel  Taffy. 


she's  got 


(you  can  have  it,  tool) 


It's  not  so  much  beauty  as  it  is  personal  vibrancy  and  sparkle,  and  all 
those  indefinable  qualities  that  make  everyone  instantly  aware  of  her. 

For  now  there's  a  new  lipstick  that  brings  out  all  the  vividness  and  sparkle  of 
the  real  you  with  exciting  colors  that  make  you  look  and  feel  vividly  alive.    It's  the 
new  VIV  lipstick  by  Toni.  VIV's  new  High-Chroma  Formula  gives  you  the  most 
vivid  colors  any  woman  has  ever  worn.    Choose  from  six  bright  shades,  each  as 
sparkling  as  the  Vivid  Coral  you  see  here.  Try  VIV,  that  vivid  new  lipstick  by  Toni. 
Comfortable,  long-lasting  and  very,  very  vivid. 


new  viv  lipstick 
by 


fe^$] 


plus 

tax        ©  The  Gillette  Co. 


at  last! 


A  LIQUID  SHAMPOO 
thats  EXTRA  RICH  f 


ITS   LIQUID 


^ 


FOR 


Something  wonderful  hos 
happened  — it's  fabulous  new 
Liquid  Prell!  The  only  shampoo 
in  the  world  with  this  exciting, 
extra-rich  formula!  It  bursts 
instantly  into  luxurious  lather  .  .  , 
rinses  like  lightning  ...  is 
so  mild  you  could  shampoo 
every  day.  And,  oh,  the  look 
and  feel  of  your  hair  after 
just  one  shampoo!  So  satin-y 
soft,  so  shiny  bright, 
so  obedient— why,  it  falls  into 
place  with  just  a  flick  of  your 
comb!  Shouldn't  your  hair  have 
that  'Radiantly  Alive'  look? 
Try  Liquid  Prell  this  very  night! 


JUST  POUR  IT... 
and  you'll  see  the  glorious  difference  I 


Some  liquid  shampoos  are 

too  thin  and  watery  .  .  . 

some  too  heavy,  and  contain  an 

ingredient  that  leaves  a  dulling  film. 

But  Prell  has  a  "just-right" 

consistency —  it  won't  run  and 

nexier  leaves  a  dulling  film. 


T-^ 


FREt-L— for  'Radiantly  Alive'  Hair 
now  available  2  ways: 

The  exciting,  new  extra-rich  liquid 
in  the  handsome,  easy-grip  bottle  I 

And  the  famous,  handy  tube 
that's  ideal  for  children  and 
the  whole  family  .  .  .  won't  spill, 
drip,  or  break.  It's 
concentrated  —  o\\x\<x  for 
ounce  it  goes  furtlierl 


A  Family  to  Cherish 


Laurel  Ann  is  the  newesf  lit+le  Cummings — and  were   Bob   and   Mary  glad   she  wasn't  susceptible   to   nneasles! 


Four  children  in  their  home — plus 
one  guiding  rule  of  love — equals 
happiness  for  Bob  and  Mary  Cummings 

By  BUD  GOODE 


BOB  Cummings  is  a  most  unpredictable  man.  He  be- 
gan life  as  a  poor  farm  boy,  son  of  a  small-toWn 
doctor  in  Joplin,  Missouri  .  .  .  and  today  he's  in- 
ternationally famous  as  a  star  of  many  motion  pictures 
and  his  own  Boh  Cummings  Show  over  NBC -TV.  He 
first  wanted  to  become  an  aeronautical  engineer,  study- 
ing at  Carnegie  Tech  .  .  .  then  suddenly  found  that  he 
was  an  aspiring  young  actor,  studying  at  the  American 
Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts.  His  public  knows  him  best 


Sep   Next   Page 


29 


A  Family  to  Cherish 


(Continued) 


Foreground 

"Emm    "  " 


iround:  Sharon  Patricia,  Mary  Melinda,  Mar^ 
ly."  Background:  Bob — who  brought  "Emmy" 


iry — and 
Emmy"  home. 


Bob  Cummings  gets  far  more  attention  from  his  young 
ones  as  a  companionable  father  than  as  a  famous  actor. 


Professionally,  os  well  as  personally,   Bob  always  values 
Mary's   advice — particularly  •  when   it   comes   to   scripts. 


as  a  light-hearted  comedian,  in  his  regular  TV  role  of 
happy-go-lucky  Hollywood  photographer  Bob  CoUins 
.  .  .  but  he  won  this  year's  "Emmy"  Award  from  the 
Academy  of  Television  Arts  and  Sciences  for  his  pow- 
erful performance  in  a  deadly  serious  drama,  "Twelve 
Angry  Men,"  on  Studio  One. 

Unpredictable  as  always,  Bob  appreciates  this  honor 
from  the  bottom  of  his  heart,  but  talks  about  it  in  the 
typically  light-hearted  manner  his  public  knows  so  well. 
"Up  until  now,"  he  grins,  "I've  been  the  most  successful 
failure  in  Hollywood — never  on  anybody's  list  or  rec- 
ommended for  anything.  They  used  to  say  about  me, 
'Oh,  he's  a  nice  fella,  a  pretty  good  actor' — ^Ijut  that  was 
all.  So,  when  I  got  the  telegram  from  the  Academy  an- 
noimcing  my  nomination  for  the  award,  I  was  flabber- 
gasted. And  then  to  sit  there  the  night  oif  the  awards — 
and  win — well,  that  was  inconceivable!" 

Busy  in  Hollywood,  Bob  hadn't  even  been  sure  he 
wanted  to  take  time  off  for  the  Studio  One  performance 
in  New  York.  "It  was  a  tough  part,"  he  recalls,  "and  I 
knew  I'd  really  have  to  put  myself  out  to  do  it.  At  that 
time,  I  looked  on  it  as  a  'one-shot.'  It  would  probably 
cost  me  money  to  take  the  role.  After  all,  I'd  have  to  be 
in  New  York  for  ten  days.  And,  by  the  time  you  travel 
back  and  forth,  and  pay  the  hotel  biUs,  there  isn't  much 
left  from  the  check. 

"Then  my  wife,  Mary,  got  hold  of  the  script.  'It's 
good,'  she  said.  'It  could  be  great.  You've  got  to  do  it.'  " 

Mary's  encouragement  means  a  lot  to  Bob,  and  he 
has  never  really  shirked  any  opportunity  to  keep  even 
busier  than  he  already  is.  From  childhood  days  on  the 
Missouri  farm,  his  philosophy  (Continued  on  page  90) 


The  Bob  Cummings  Show,  over  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  10:30  P.M.  EDT,  is 
sponsored  by  R.  J.  Reynolds  Tobacco  Co.  for  Winston  Cigarettes. 


30 


Family   stroll   outside   the    house   which    Bob   and    Mary    planned    with    such    loving    care   for   their   children's    protection. 
Safety  first:  They  all  leorn  to   swinn — and  to  drive.    That's    young   Robert  Cummings  at  the  wheel  of  the  miniature  car,. 


¥^t'.^^^-;c 


Lovebirds:  Peggy  and  her  husband  Knobby  Lee  with  their  pets,  including  "Mr.  McGoo,"  the  dog.  Peggy  and  Knobby 
practice  music  together,  but  Knobby  does  the  gardening — and  both  love  that  tomato  sauce  which  started  Peggy's  success! 


^ma 


Peggy  King  rose  from  heartbreak  and 
hardship  to  find  her  own  Prince 
Charming — and  The  George  Gobel   Show 
By  GORDON  BUDGE 

HARD-BITTEN  CYNICS  may  Sneer,  "There  aren't 
any  Cinderellas  nowadays,"  but  this  is 
one  subject  of  which  George  Gobel 
himself  would  never  say:    "You  can't  hardly 
get  them  no  more!"     There's  a  real  Cinderella, 
right  on  The  George  Gobel  Show — his  featured 
singer,  Peggy  King,  just  five-feet  tall,  red- 
haired,  green-eyed,  and  prettier  than  even  a 
fairy  princess  has  a  right  to  be. 

The  original  Cinderella  used  a  pumpkin  on  her 
road  to  fame,  and  a  glass  slipper  pointed  her 
way  to  happiness.    Peggy  King  used  a  can 
of  tomato  sauce,  and  it  was  her  magic  voice 
which  opened  the  palace  doors.     But  Cinderella 
and  Peggy  started  out  with  two  things  very 
much  in  common:   They  were  both  poor — 
and  they  both  believed  in  "dreaming  beyond 
your  means."  {^Continued  on  page  80) 

The  George  Gobel  5/iotr.  NBC-TV,  three  Saturdays  out  of  four, 
10  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Armour  &  Co.  and  Pet  Milk  Co. 


George  Gobel  hired  Peggy  for  his  show  before  they'd 
ever  met,  but  it  proved  a  happy  decision  for  them  both. 


Record  fans:  Trumpeter  Knobby,  of  the  Liberace  band,  chooses  Harry  James — but  singer  Peggy  holds  out  for  musical 
comedy.  Below,  right:  Peggy  with  her  parents,  who  had  the  loving  faith  (if  not  the  money)  to  help  her  dreams  come  true. 


Live  up  to  your  Dreams 


Phonorama  Time  gets  a  royal  welcome  from  Johnny's  fans  everywhere — like  these  eager  autograph-seekers  at  Mary  Louis 
Academy,  Jamaica,  N.  Y.  Gathered  around  the  piano  before  that  broadcast,  left  to  right:  Tommy  LeonettI,  singer;  Anita  Stenz 
and  Barbara  Lamberta;  Johnny;  Lois  Thompson,  Irene  Lounzen,  Annamarie  Lamberta,  and  Bill  Silbert,  popular  deejay  of  WABC. 


Above,  some  very  special  entertainment  by  Bill  Silbert,  Johnny, 
songstress  Dolores  Hawkins  and  Tommy  Leonetti.  At  right,  a  personal 
interview  by  Jane  Marik,  student  editor,  at  the  Mary  Louis  Academy. 


Johnny  Desmond  learned — the  hard 
way — how  to  be  a  guiding  star 
to  teenagers,  on  Phonorama  Time 


34 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 

THE  HIGH  SCHOOL  press  Confer- 
ence was  cool,  hot  or  groovy, 
depending  upon  one's  age, 
ear,  or  addiction  to  jive.   By  their 
eager  questions,   Philadelphia's 
teen-age  reporters  were  letting 
Johnny  Desmond  know:    "We  dig 
you  the  most."    And,  by  his 
frank  answers,  Johnny  was 
retxirning  the  compliment. 

Speaking  with  that  technical 
knowledge  which  makes  so  many 
young  people  music  experts  today, 
they  talked  of  pop  tunes  and 
classics,  LP's  and  hi-fi.    They 
analyzed  the  styles  of  singers  and 
sidemen.    They  exchanged 
opinions  about  what  music  busi- 
ness calls  "r  &  b" — rhythm  and 
blues — and  about  "c  &  w,"  which 
means  "country  and  western." 

Things  were  rolling,  man, 
rolling,  for  the  moment  was  just 
right — ^at  this  historic  conference — 
for  these  youthful  reporters  to 
share  the  achievement  of  a 
favorite  star.   On  the  previous 
Sunday,  Johnny,  cast  in  his  first 


See  Next  Page 


Live  up  to  your  Dreams 


Phonoroma  Time  gets  a  royal  welcome  from  Johnny's  fans  everywhere— like  these  eager  autograph-seekers  at  Mary  Louis 
Academy  Jamaica,  N.  Y.  Gathered  around  the  piano  before  that  broadcast,  left  to  right:  Tommy  Leonetti,  smger;  Anita  Menz 
and  Barbara  Lamberto;  Johnny;  Lois  Thompson,  Irene  Lounzen,  Annomarie  Lamberto,  and  Bill  Silbert,  popular  deepy  ot  WABC. 


Johnny  Desmond  learned — the  hard 
way — how  to  be  a  guiding  star 
to  teenagers,  on  Phonorama  Time 


Above,  some  very  special  entertainment  by  Bill  Silbert,  Johnny, 
songstress  Dolores  Hawkins  and  Tommy  Leonetti.  At  right,  a  personal 
interview  by  Jane  Morik,  student  editor,  at  the  Mary  Louis  Academy. 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 

THE  HIGH  SCHOOL  press  Confer- 
ence was  cool,  hot  or  groovy, 
depending  upon  one's  age, 
ear,  or  addiction  to  jive.   By  their 
eager  questions,  Philadelphia's 
teen-age  reporters  were  letting 
Johnny  Desmond  know:    "We  dig 
you  the  most."   And,  by  his 
frank  answers,  Johnny  was 
returning  the  compliment. 

Speaking  with  that  technical 
knowledge  which  makes  so  many 
young  people  music  experts  today, 
they  talked  of  pop  tunes  and 
classics,  LP's  and  hi-fi.    They 
analyzed  the  styles  of  singers  and 
sidemen.    They  exchanged 
opinions  about  what  music  busi- 
ness calls  "r  &  b"— rhythm  and 
blues — and  about  "c  &  w,"  which 
means  "country  and  western." 

Things  were  rolling,  man, 
rolling,  for  the  moment  was  just 
right — at  this  historic  conference — 
for  these  youthful  reporters  to 
share  the  achievement  of  a 
favorite  star.   On  the  previous 
Sunday,  Johnny,  cast  in  his  first 

See  Next  Page  ^ 


At   3,   Johnny   was    just    lis- 
tening  to   music — with    love. 


Live  up  to  your  Dreams 


(Continued) 


straight  dramatic  role  on  Philco  Television 
Playhouse,  had  introduced  a  new  tune, 
"Play  Me  Hearts  and  Flowers."  His  Coral 
recording  of  it  had  been  released  on  Mon- 
day morning  and,  at  the  end  of  the  day, 
100,000  platters  had  been  sold.  By  Friday, 
the  total  reached  250,000.  Then,  on  that 
Saturday  morning,  just  before  their  press 
conference,  Johnny  had  launched  his  new 
disc-jockey  show,  Phonorama  Time,  on 
565  stations  of  the  Mutual  network. 

In  view  of  such  a  week,  one  girl's  ques- 
tion, "How  do  you  get  to  be  a  success  in 
music?"  was  to  be  expected. 

But  the  tone  of  Johnny's  answer  sur- 
prised them.  With  his  feet  planted  firmly, 
his  thumbs  thrust  into  the  pockets  of  his 
scarlet  weskit  and  a  rebellious  lock  of 
black  hair  falling  down  across  his  fore- 
head, he  gave  them  a  reply  some  young 
jazz  fans  would  label  "square." 

Playing  it  straight,  he  told  them,  "You 
get  to  be  a  good  singer  or  a  good  Ameri- 
can or  a  good  truck  driver  or  a  good  any- 
thing else  in  just  one  way.  You  work  at 
it.    With  discipline." 

Later,  he  had  this  comment:  "Sure,  I 
knew  they  hoped  for  a  magic  formula. 
Any  kid  does.  When  you're  in  high  school, 
you  want  all  your  daydreams  to  come 
true  instantly.  The  future  seems  like 
something  which  adults  have  locked  be- 
hind iron  bars.  You  look  for  something 
big  and  quick  to  make  people  notice  you. 
You  want  the  overnight  success." 


He  paced  back  and  forth,  his  intensity 
mounting.  "Well,  I  could  have  told  them 
that,  twice  in  my  life,  I've  had  the  over- 
night success — and,  both  times,  it  cost  me. 
It  cost  me  a  licking  the  first  time,  and  the 
second  time,  I  took  a  real  beating.  It  took 
six  years  of  hard  work,  plus  wise  coach- 
ing, before  I  recovered.  But  I  learned. 
Man,  how  I  learned." 

It  was  a  story  which  Johnny  had  long 
kept  to  himself,  but  now,  headed  again 
toward  important  billing,  he  was  at  last 
ready  to  talk  about  it,  out  loud  and  for 
publication. 

"A  kid,"  said  Johnny,  by  way  of  intro- 
duction, "is  three  people:  The  child  his 
parents  think  he  is,  the  pupil  the  teacher 
sees — and,  in  his  own  mind,  the  person  he 
wants  to  be  with  his  own  friends.  Well, 
once  in  a  while  he  gets  tangled  up.  ..." 

For  Johnny,  such  a  tangle  occurred  back 
in  Detroit.  Eight  years  old  and  as  cute  as 
he  was  bright,  he  had  already  learned 
how  to  get  his  own  way.  He  begged  to 
study  piano  and,  although  the  Depression 
had  made  the  income  from  the  DeSimone 
family  grocery  store  slim,  his  father 
scrimped  off  the  weekly  fee  for  the 
teacher. 

Johnny  made  phenomenal  progress. 
"He's  practically  a  genius,"  his  delighted 
teacher  told  his  doting  parents. 

But  then  came  the  day  when  Johnny 
refused  to  take  his  lesson.  He  also  re- 
fused  to    say    (Continued    on   -page  86) 


But,   by    13,   he  was  singing 
and  acting  "professionally." 


Johnny  Desmond's  Phonorama  Time.  Mutual,  Sat.,  11 :30  A.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  the  Philco  Corporation. 


Big    day:    Graduation    from 
Northeastern  H.S.  In  Detroit. 


Bob-O-Links:    Eddie    Levlne,    Tony    Paris, 
Johnny — and  his  "future,"  Ruth  Keddlngton. 


Songbird   in  the  sky:  Johnny  toured  with 
the   late  Glenn   Miller,   in   World   War   II. 


36 


Today,  Johnny  and    Ruth   have  two   little  skylarks  of  their  own — Patti,   6,   and    Diane,   going   on   9. 


Loyal  honne  folks:  Brother  Horry  (right)  and  Mom —  Johnny's   grandfather   (center)    is    mighty   proud    of    him   these 

who  saw  to  it  that  Johnny  kept  at  his  music  lessons.  days — and    so    is    Johnny's    stepfather,    Tony    Buccalato    (left). 


37 


The  NAME'S  The  SAME 


Roger  Price,  Walter  Slezak  and  Loraine  Day  aren't  too  surprised  at  the  special  ottention  Audrey  Meadows  gets  from 
Messrs.  Elliott  and  Goulding  on  the  TV  panel  program — Audrey's  a  sweet  girl-graduate  of  previous  Bob  and  Ray  shows! 


Bob  Elliott  and  family  live  in  a  city  apartment  and 
"go   shopping"    in    picturesque   Greenwich   Village. 


Bob's   hobby   is   painting — painting    pictures   good 
enough  to  be  exhibited  in  New  York  City  galleries. 


38 


Two  moderators  on  a  show,  two  minds 

on  the  track  of  laughs — they're 

still  the  "one-and-only"  Bob  and  Ray 

By  PETER  CHARADE 

WOULD  YOU  LIKE  to  be  3  big-shot?  .  .  .  Now,  at 
last,  you  can  pull  big  jobs,  be  a  person  of 
means — the  pillar  of  your  community."  ...  If 
you  happened  to  hear  this  come-on  for  a  TV 
give-away,  yoli  know  that  it  went  on  to  describe 
the  "Jim  Dandy  Burglar  Kit,"  which  included  a 
mask,  jimmies,  crepe-soled  shoes,  canvas  gloves, 
the  plans  of  three  banks,  and  "a  list  of  aliases  you 
can  use  over  and  tjver  again"  (including  such 
names  as  Benjamin  Franklin) .  In  fact,  it  was  "the 
only  complete  burglar  outfit  offered  today." 

To  receive  this  and  other  "handy  little  kits,"  you 
were  urged  to  write  to  "Thieves,  NBC."    And, 
each  week,  from  750  to  1000  hsteners  sent  in  for 
the  items.    When  the  address  was  changed  to  "The 
Smithsonian  Institute,"  that  august  establish- 
ment received  some  300  letters  asking  for  the 
"Home  Surgery  Kit — complete  with  instructions 
on  how  to  take  out  your  own  tonsils."     Only  one 
htmdred  himianitarians  were  interested  in  the 
Institute's  "Kind  Hunter's  Kit — ^for  soft-hearted 
people  who  love  to  hunt  but  hate  to  kill."  It 
contained  bullets,  packed  {Continued  on  page  75) 


The  Names  The  Same,  ABC-TV,  Mon.,  7 :30  P.M.  EDT,  is 
sponsored  by  the  Ralslon  Purina  Co.  Bob  and  Ray  are  also 
heard  on  WINS  (New  York),  Mon.  thru  Sat.,  6:30  to  10  A.M. 


Ray  Goulding  and  family  have  a  house  on  Long  Island 
— which  means  rising  at  4:30  A.M.,  a  speedy  breakfast, 
then  off  to  the  city  for  the  Bob  and  Ray  radio  program. 


Ray's  hobby  is  photography,  and  his  favorite — and  most 
willing — models  are  his  wife  and  children.  Left  to  right, 
below:  Thomas,  6;  Liz  Soulding;  Barbara,  3;  Raymond,  9. 


Song  fast:   Bob   and   his   wife   Lee   and   the   girls — 
Colony,  8,  and  Shannon,  5 — raise  a  little  harmony. 


^pc^' 


/ 


It 


OfF  TV,  "Willy  the  lawyer"  is  a  whiz  of  a  homemaker.    June  cooks 
with  skill — either  plain  or  fancy — and  does  all  her  own  decorating. 


This  Life  I  Love 


As  Willy  on  TV,  as  Mrs.  William  Spier  at  home. 


June  Havoc  has  found  her  heaven-on-earth 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 


Husband  Bill,  the  producer,  brings  supplies  to  his  favorite  chef. 


Author's  note:    If  you're  crazy 
about   June   Havoc,   you'll  like 
Willy — and  if  you  aren't  crazy 
about  June,   you're   nuts.    (End   of   a 
very  sincere  commercial — and  start 
of  a  very  honest  story.) 

June  Havoc,  starring  m  the  title  role 
of  CBS-TV's  Willy,  isn't  just  another 
w^oman,  another  actress,  another  show. 
She's  great — and  different.  She  is  at  once 
as  sophisticated  as  a  diamond  bracelet 
and  as  elusive  as  a  butterfly. 
She  can  be  as  frothy  as  an  ice-cream 
soda  and  as  hearty  as  a  good  steak. 
There  are  so  many  sides  to  June.  She 
is  so  many  people.  Actually,  she  is 
basically  shy.  Or  w^as.  Or  will  be.  You 
never  know  exactly.  Once,  she  was 
shy  because  she  was  scared.  Now,  she 
can  be  scared  without  being  shy. 

"I've  never  been  as  afraid  of  anjrthing 
as  I  am  of  this  television  show,"  she 
admits.  In  the  past,  making  a  success 
of  something  has  always  been  a 
personal  matter.  (Continued  on  page  77) 


ITilly,  on  CBS-TV,  Thurs.,  10:30  P.M.  EDT,  is 
sponsored  by  General  Mills  and  CBS-Columbia. 


41 


Album  of  DAVPRAMAS 

These  exciting  neighbors  on  NBC-TV  are  next-door 
to  your  heart,  every  weekday  afternoon 


THE  GREATEST  GIFT 

WHEN  she  moved  to  the  small  town 
of  Ridgton,  Dr.  Eve  Allen  took 
the    biggest    and    most    decisive 
step  toward  her  life-long  dream  of 
becoming  a  general  practitioner.  There- 
tofore, her  medical  activities  had  been 
centered  about  laboratory  work  and, 
although  she  was  acclaimed  for  having 
discovered  the  antidote  to  a  virus 
which  had  killed  her  fiance,  the  glory 
of  her  accomplishment  was  dimmed 
in  the  light  of  her  unrealized  dream. 
Eve's  settling  in  Ridgton,  however, 
rekindled  her  fondest  hopes,  for  at  last 
she  saw  herself  becoming  the  kind  of 
doctor  she  had  always  wanted  to  be. 
But  even  the  happiest  occasions  can 
be  tinged  with  trouble,  and  Eve  has 
found  her  situation  is  no  exception. 
From   the   beginning   she   has   had   to 
fight  the  inherent  prejudice  against 
women  doctors.    And,  since  she  finally 
won  an  appointment  on  the  hospital's 
staff — though  not  without  an  intense 
and  bitter  struggle — her  capabilities  as 
a  doctor,  and  as  a  woman,  have  been 
tested  constantly.    Obstacles,  however, 
are  nothing  new  to  Eve;  she  has  met 
and  overcome  many  along  her  life's 
path.     Although  each  one  has  left 
her  with  an  invisible  scar,  they  have 
also  continued  to  make  her  life — and 
the  lives  of  those  she  deals  with — 
more  meaningful  and  rewarding. 


The  Greatest  Gift,  created  by  Adrian  Samish, 
is  seen  over  NBC-TV.  M-F,  at  3:30  P.M.  EDT. 


In  her  battle  against  prejudice 
and  selfishness,   Eve  Hunter  (Anne 
Burr)  has  received  invaluable 
help,  comfort — and  love — from 
Dr.  Philip  Stone  (Phil  Foster). 


CONCERNING  MISS  MARLOWE 


A  LTHOUGH  fame  and  fortune  have  always  been 
a\  envied  and  sought  after,  they  can  prove  to  be 
poor  substitutes  for  happiness  and  love — as  ac- 
tress Maggie  Marlowe  knows  only  too  well.  Today, 
Maggie  can  look  back  on  many  successful  years  as  a 
leading  lady.  But  all  the  glamour  and  notoriety  with 
which  she  has  been  showered  have  not  been  able  to 
wash  away  the  emptiness  and  unhappiness  she  has 
experienced.  Now,  Maggie  yearns  more  than  ever  for 
love  and  the  security  of  a  happy  home.  .  .  .  Twice  in 
her  life,  Maggie  has  lost  the  one  she  loved:  When 
she  was  a  young  girl,  her  husband  died  suddenly. 
More  recently,  tragedy  struck  when,  on  the  eve  of 
her  marriage  to  Roger  Anderson  he,  too,  passed 
away.  .  .  .  Bitterly  unhappy,  Maggie  decided  to  con- 
tinue on  in  the  theater,  finding  her  life  once  again 
filled  with  surprises  and  complications — especially 
since  she  met  and  fell  in  love  with  Jim  Gavin,  well- 
known  international  lawyer.  Unhappily  married  to 
a  woman  who  would  not  grant  him  a  divorce,  Jim 
became  free  to  marry  Maggie  after  the  recent  death 
of  his  wife.  ...  As  she  contemplates  her  marriage  to 
Jim,  Maggie's  heart  rejoices,  for  now,  at  long  last, 
she  is  finding  her  dream  of  love  and  security  becom- 
ing more  of  a  reality  with  each  passing  day. 


Concerning  Miss  Marlowe  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  M-F,  3 :45  P.M. 
EDT,  sponsored  on  alternate  days  by  Tide  (Procter  &  Gamble). 


Mangle  Marlowe  (Helen  Shields)  sees  her  dream  of  love 
about  to  come  true  with  Jim  Savin  (Efrem  Zimbalist,  Jr.). 


I 


tr 


HAWKINS 
FALLS 


Good  friends  get  together:  Dr.  Corey  (Maurice  Copeland)  and  his  wife  Lona  (Bernardine  Flynn) 
entertain  Mitch  Fredericks  (Jim  Bannon),  Millie  Flagle  (Ros  Twohey)  and  Sue  Rig-ga  (Toni  Silman). 


» 


HAWKINS  FALLS  is  a  Small  Midwestern  town,  located 
160  miles  from  a  large  city.  It  is  a  typical  Ameri- 
can community,  overflowing  with  the  life,  laughter 
and  love  of  its  proud  residents.  Anyone  who  has  lived 
in  a  small  town  finds  a  special  kinship  with  Hawkins 
Falls,  for  its  people  and  activities  mirror  the  life  and 
ways  of  every  Smalltown,  U.S.A.  .  .  .  Particularly  out- 
standing in  Hawkins  Falls  are  Lona  and  Floyd  Corey, 
who  usually  find  themselves  in  the  center  of  the  most 
interesting  and  exciting  local  activities.  In  a  town  as 
small  as  theirs,  it  is  scarcely  possible  to  keep  a  secret — 
at  least,  not  for  long.    But,  because  he  is  a  doctor,  Floyd 


Corey  has  many  times  had  to  be  a  keeper  of  secrets. 
Consequently,  he — and  Lona — have  been  thrown  into 
the  midst  of  conflicts  which  have  had  both  happy  and 
tragic  outcomes.  .  .  .  Although  Lona  and  Floyd  dearly 
love  Hawkins  Falls  and  all  it  stands  for,  the  frequent 
difficulties  they  encovmter  serve,  not  only  as  a  lesson  in 
life,  but  as  a  reminder  that  their  town  is  not  heaven — 
nor  are  its  residents  angels.  But,  after  all,  it  is  their 
town,  their  friends — and  that's  what  makes  it  home  .  .  . 
sweet,  satisfying,  and  enriching. 

Hawkins  Falls,  written  by  Bill  Barrett,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  4  P.M.  EDT. 

See  Next  Page > 


43 


Working  tirelessly  wl+h  Quentin  Andrews  (Frederic  Downs)  on  the  developnnent  of  a  new  jet  engine,  Zoch  Jannes  (Tod 
Andrews)  is  often  ruthless,  and  his  wife  Laurie  (Pat  Barry)  tries  to  tennper  his  over-zealousness  with  patience  and  tact. 


FIRST  LOVE 


A  NY  PHASE  of  living,  when  pursued  to  an  extreme,  is 
J\  bound  to  create  problems,  as  young  Laurie  James 
has  learned  in  her  marriage  to  Zach.  When  she  be- 
came Zach's  Wife,  Lautie  left  behind  the  loving 
warmth  and  comforting  security  she  had  known  with 
her  parents,  and  ventured  into  a  life  of  unpredicta- 
bility and  possible  insecurity.  At  first,  love  triumphed 
over  all,  and  the  waters  of  the  James  marriage  flowed 
clear  and  smoothly.  But  ahead  lay  a  deadly  whirlpool, 
revolving  about  the  Andrews  Aeronautical  Corporation 
and  Zach's  engineering  jbb  there,  developing  a  new 
type  of  jet  engine.  .  .  .  Zach  is  a  man  who  is  completely 
and  wholeheartedly  devotfed  to  his  work  and,  although 
he  loves  Laurie,  it  seems  that  nothing  can  stand  in  the 
way  of  his  profession.  The  results  of  his  uncompro- 
mising attitude  toward  his  work  have  often  made  Zach 


appear  ruthless  and  heartless.  His  behavior  has  pro- 
vided many  lessons  in  patience  and  understanding  for 
Laurie  and,  the  more  insight  she  gains  into  his  nature, 
the  better  she  is  able  to  help  Zach  by  tempering  his 
over-zealousness  with  prudence  and  restraint.  .  .  .  But 
there  came  a  time  when  Zach's  extreme  single-minded- 
ness  proved  to  be  too  much  for  Laurie  and  she  left  him. 
The  separation  was  only  temporary,  however,  and 
Laurie  returned  in  time  to  stand  beside  Zach  while  he 
was  being  tried  for  a  murder  he  did  not  commit.  .  .  . 
Even  though  Zach's  innocence  is  upheld,  the  air  has  not 
been  entirely  cleared  of  trouble.  Many  more  turbulent 
seas  will  have  to  be  crossed,  but  it  seems  now  that  they 
will  be  mastered  with  greater  wisdom.  For,  although 
they  still  have  far  to  go,  Laurie  and  Zach  have  come 
a  long  way  in  learning  to  live  and  grow — together. 


First  Love,  written  by  Mdnya  Starr,  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  M-F,  4:1.S  P.M.,  EDT,  for  J ergens- Woodbury  products  and  others. 


Album  off  DkVDRAMAS 


44 


{Continued) 


THE  WORLD  OF  MR.  SWEENEY 


Humorous  surprises  are  usually  in  store  for  Mr. 
Sweeney  (Charles  Ruggles)  when  he  starts  problem- 
solving — especially  when  grandson  Kippie  (Slenr 
Walken)  and  his  mother  (Helen  Wagner)  ore  involved. 


MAPUiTON  could  be  anyone's  home  town — provided 
it  is  small  and  has  a  general  store  run  by  a  beloved 
"cracker-barrel   psychiatrist"   like   Cicero   P. 
Sweeney.    Although  Mr.  Sweeney  has  never  set  foot 
outside  of  Mapleton,  he  possesses  an  uncanny  worldliness 
and  wisdom  that  make  him  the  townfolks'  most  sought- 
after  adviser  and  dearest  friend.    As  he  lives  each  day, 
getting  himself  humorously  involved  in  others'  affairs, 
Mr.  Sweeney's  gentleness  and  charm  provoke  a  delightful 
nostalgia  which  adds  sunshine  to  the  dullest  day. 

Charlie  Ruggles Tn  T^eJForW  Of  Mr.  Sweeney,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  4:30 
P.M.  EDT.  is  sponsored  by  R.  T.  French  Mustard  and  other  products. 


In  choosing  a  home,  the   Nelsons  followed  their  hearts — and  couldn't  be  happier. 

1'-,' 


I  CAN  REMEMBER  the  dreadful  flu  epidemic  at  the  end  of 
the  first  World  War.  I  was  about  five  then,  and — except 
for  my  father — the  only  member  of  the  family  still  on  his 
feet.  With  hundreds  of  things  to  do,  my  father  sat  down 
for  a  talk  with  me.  He  explained  that  he  had  to  go  out 
for  a  whUe,  and  that  made  me  the  man  of  the  house — in 
charge  while  he  was  gone.  I  have  never  been  so  proud. 
Here  I  was — head  of  the  house  at  five,  and  during  a  time 
of  real  peril.  The  job  was  only  temporary,  but  even  so  it 
just  about  fulfilled  my  dreams  of  glory." 

Continued    ^ 


Since  he  was  five,  Herb  Nelson 

has  always  sought  his  "brighter  day" 

in  the  sunshine  of  his  own  home 

By  ED  MEYERSON 


Fonrjily  life  has  always  meant  more  than  careers  to  Herb  and  his  wife,  Joan  DeWeese.  They  enjoy  remodeling  their 
"new"  house,  and  are  thrilled  with  the  extra  play  space  for  their  children:  Dawn  Ley,  Erika  Joan,  and  baby  DeWitt. 


46 


fl 


v^^ 


r^ 


m 


'^^ 


If: 

hi 

f  '  r.  ^ 

r^ 

M 

tl 

ii 

M 

1 

*->  V' 


■^ 


J 


H' 


A 


^N^;-V 


(Continued) 


It  might  be  Max  Canfield,  that  tower  of  strength  in 
The  Brighter  Day,  describing  his  own  philosophy  of  Ufe. 
For,  as  a  leading  citizen  of  New  Hope  and  editor  of  its 
newspaper,  the  Herald,  in  CBS's  popular  daytime  drama, 
Max  feels  a  strong  sense  of  responsibility  for  the  welfare 
of  the  entire  community. 

Actually,  however,  it  wasn't  Max  doing  the  remi- 
niscing, but  Herb  Nelson — who  is  Max  Canfield  on  radio 
and  TV.  And,  while  there's  nothing  unusual  about  a 
healthy  youngster  in  a  happy  family  dreaming  of  glory 
in  terms  of.  his  own  home,  in  real  life  Herb  was 
to  choose  the  one  profession  that  makes  such  dreams 
the  most  diflficult  to  fulfill.  What  actor  has  ever  been 
guaranteed  a  normal  life,  or  even  the  security  it  takes 
to  establish  a  home  and  family? 

But  another  childhood  memory  indicates  the  kind  of 
actor  Herb  was  to  be:  "So  help  me,  I  recall  distinctly 
that,  somewhere  in  my  third  year,  a  cousin  or  some- 
thing of  my  mother's — an  impressive,  bulbous  gentle- 


Herb  has  more  room  to  play,  too,  in  their  New  Jersey 
home.  A  bit  of  "golf  practice"  can  really  build 
up  an   appetite  for  one  of  Joan's  family-size  steaks. 


man  namied  Sven  Ring — ^paid  us  a  visit.  I  took  the  floor 
and  sang  him  a  beguiling  little  ditty  which  was  very 
well  received.  He  forced  a  nickel  on  me." 

Which  made  Herb  a  professional  actor,  even  at  the 
age  of  three.  He  wasn't  just  posturing  before  a  mirror 
or  dreaming  of  one  day  being  a  star.  He  was  actually 
putting  on  a  performance  good  enough  to  get  paid  for 
it.  And  today,  after  twenty-four  years  in  radio,  TV, 
films  and  the  theater.  Herb  is  a  professional  in  the  finest 
sense  of  the  word.  He  has  all  the  security  he  needs. 
And  as  for  that  home  and  family.  .  .  . 

"Well,  it  happened  in  New  York,"  Herb  recalls.  "It 
was  the  first  day  of  rehearsal  of  a  new  play.  We  were 
waiting  for  the  leading  lady  to  show  up.  Finally,  I  heard 
the  smart  click  of  heels  coming  down  the  long  hall  to 
the  rehearsal  room.  Somiething  about  the  rhythm  told 
me  this  was  the  girl.  It  was." 

And  so.  Herb  Nelson  married  Joan  DeWeese.  But  if 
no  one  actor  has  ever  been  guaranteed  a  normal  life, 
what  about  two  actors?  There  is  not  only  the  problem 
of  conflicting  careers,  but  of  keeping  house  with  crazy 
hours  and  no  possibility  of  a  regular,  scheduled  exist- 
ence. To  make  matters  more  difficult,  Joan  came  from 
a  home  in  Mississippi  where  there  had  always  been 
plenty  of  household  help.  She  was  an  excellent  artist, 
and  she  had  studied  drama  under  Maude  Adams  at 
Stevens  and  at  the  Yale  Drama  School,  but  no  one  had 
ever  taught  her  how  to  boil  an  egg  or  wash  a  dish. 

And  yet,  some  seven  and  a  half  years  and  three  chil- 
dren later,  the  Nelsons  have  more  than  proved  that 
they  can  successfully  combine  two  theatrical  careers 
with  a  normal,  happy  family  life. 

How  do  they  do  it?  Well,  like  all  actors  caught  with- 
out a  script,  they  improvise,  feeling  their  way  through 
a  new  situation  until  they  know  they've  got  it  right. 
And,  like  all  persons  mature  enough  to  know  them- 
selves, they  are  content  to  he  themselves.  Their  yard- 
stick has  never  been  how  other  people  live  but  how 
they  themselves  want  to  live.  And,  somehow,  it's  always 
come  out  right. 


48 


rr  I 


ri  I '  I 


■ 


£  £  £:  £:£:- 


1     I  i  kr 


4^ 


Dawn  Ley  and  Erilca  Joan  will  also  be  enthusiastic  honnemalcers  someday,    and    are    olreody    practicing    on    miniature 
furnishings  of  their  own.    But  even  the  biggest  pieces  of  furniture   can't  dismay   Herb,   who  does   his  own   refinishing. 


Herb  calls  it  "playing  by  ear,"  and  cites  examples  to 
explain  what  he  means:  "When  Joan  and  I  were  mar- 
ried, we  had  no  plans  except  to  set  the  time  and  the 
place.  We  let  the  rest  of  the  arrangements  work  them- 
selves out,  and  as  a  result  had  a  simple  and  beautiful 
ceremony  much  more  memorable  than  anything  we 
could  have  designed." 

He  also  recalls  the  way  they  bought  their  home  last 
August.  There  was  an  ad  in  the  newspaper  describing 
a  house  for  sale  in  Leonia,  New  Jersey.  Shakespeare, 
wherefore  art  thou?  it  was  headlined.  "Oh,  no!"  Joan 
winced,  but  they  went  to  look,  anyway.  Leonia  was 
an  ideal  community  for  their  purposes — ^just  thirty-five 
minutes  from  Manhattan,  with  an  excellent  elementary 
school  for  the  children.  (Continued  on  pageSS) 


[ 


Herb  Nelson  is  Max  Canfield  in  The  Brighter  Day.  M-F,  on  CBS-TV 
at  4  P.M.  EDT— and  M-F,  on  CBS  Radio  at  2:45  P.M.  EDT— spon- 
sored by  the  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Cheer  and  other  products. 


49 


Sunlit  waters  at  Miami  Beach  ore  a  perfect  setting  for  Steve  and  Jayne  to  prove  that  two  can  be  mighty  good  company. 


Steve  Allen's  show,  Tonight, 
delayed  his  wedding  trip 
with  Jayne  Meadows — then 
made  up  for  it  with  a  glorious 


The  crowd  grows:  Above,  J.  Fred  Muggs  shows  them  three  can  be  fun, 
too — just  for  Today.  In  the  big  group  below,  Tonight's  Gene  Rayburn 
is   perched  at  left  and   maestro   Skitch   Henderson   is   behind  Jayne. 


F  4^14^'*  .-y 


SKH  isu; 


Midnight  telecasts  starred  such  varied  funmokers  as  Milton  Berle — a  playful  porpoise — George  DeWItt  and  Steve  himself. 


By  PHILIP  CHAPMAN 

IN    HIS    BIG    MANHATTAN    APARTMENT    On    Park 
Avenue  one  bitterly  cold  evening  this  past 
winter,  Steve  Allen  was  going  over  his  notes  for 
the  upcoming  Tonight  show  and  waiting  for 
Jayne  Meadows,  his  bride  of  a  few  months,  to 
finish  dressing. 

"I'm  just  putting  on  my  face,"  she  called  from 
her  dressing  room.  "I  won't  be  a  minute — " 

The  phone  at  Steve's  elbow  rang.  "Hello?  What? 
You  mean  the  whole  show?  For  a  week?  I  don't 
know.  Who'll  pick  up  the  tab  for  the  exti-a  cable 
expenses?  What  about  the  plane  fares?" 

Jayne  came  running  in  from  her  dressing  room. 
"What— what — what?"  she  cried.  "Take  the 
show  where  for  a  week?" 

Steve  covered  the  mouthpiece  with  his  hand. 
'We're  invited  to  go  to  Miami  for  a  week,  the 
whole  outfit,  and  do  Tonight  from  there." 

"Miami!"  whispered  Jayne,  ecstatically.  "Yes!  The 
answer  is  yes!" 

Into  the  phone  Steve  said,   "The   answer's  yes," 
and  hung  up. 

"Now  tell  me,"  he  said  to  his  bride,  "why 
the  answer's  yes." 

"You   wonderful   dope,   it's   our   honeymoon! 
The  one  we  never  had.   We've  been   trying  for 
three  months  to  get  a  day  or  two  free  for  our 
honeymoon,  and  here  it  is  {Continued  on  page 83) 

Tonight,  starring  Steve  Allen,  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  11:30 
P.M.  EDT,  11  P.M.  CDT,  under  participating  sponsorship.  The 
Steve  Allen  Show  is  seen  over  WRCA-TV  (New  York),  M-F, 
11 :15  P.M.,  for  Knickerbocker  Beer.  Jayne  Meadows  is  seen  on 
Tve  Got  A  Secret,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  9:30  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored 
by  the  R.  J.  Reynolds  Tobacco  Company  for  Winston  Cigarettes. 


A  tale  of  two  redheads:  Carmel  of  Ireland  was   discovered   by  Arthur  of  the   Talent  Scouts. 


Sure,  'tivcis  the  Little  People 

gave  Carmel  Quinn  the  gift  of  song 

and  made  her  a  Little  Godfrey! 

By  FRANCES  KISH 

THE  LEPRECHAtJNS  iTiust  have  been  whisper- 
ing to  her  about  things   to  come, 
because — all   the   time   Carmel   Quinn 
was  growing  up  in  Dublin — she  used  to 
imagine   herself  in   America,   singing   and 
dancing  for  huge  audiences.   When  her  daddy 
and  her  two  brothers   and  sister  weren't 
around  to  hear,  Carmel  would  go  into  the 
pantry  of  the  big  house  where  they  all 
lived   (her  mother  had  passed  away  when 
she  was  only  seven)  and  go  through  her  whole 
repertoire  of  songs.    If  anyone  caught  her, 
singing  and  dancing  alone  in  the  freezing- 
cold  room,  Carmel  was  dreadfully  embar- 
rassed, for  this  longing  to  sing  and  to  entertain 
and  to  make  people's  faces  Hght  up  with 
joy  was  a  secret  which — for  a  long,  long 
time — she  shared  with  no  one. 

Not  that  she  had  to  hide  the  fact  that 
music  was  in  her  very  heart,  because  all  the 
Qiiinns  understood  that.     They  were  all 
music-loving,  and  there  was  hardly  an 


Writing  to  the   homefolks   bock  on   the   Emerald 
Isle,   Carmel   finds   her  heart  too  full   for   words. 


See  Next  Page 


53 


(Continued) 


Between  programs,  Carmel  shows  Frank   Parker  and  Tony  Marvin  How  to  "do  it  in  jig  time." 


3vening  when  the  old  organ  wasn't  giving  off  sonorous 
and  beautiful  hymns  and  delightfully  lilting  Irish 
melodies.  Carmel's  daddy  is  an  excellent  violinist, 
and  some  of  the  children  would  always  be  ready  to 
accompany  him  on  one  of  the  other  musical  instru- 
ments they  had  around — everything  from  an  accordion 
and  mouth  organ  to  quaint  hand-fashioned  instru- 
ments which  had  been  in  the  family  for  years.  And 
they  would  always  sing,  the  men  of  the  family  in 
deep,  rich  voices,  and  Carmel  and  her  sister  Betty 
in  high,  sweet  tones. 

"The  neighbors  used  to  think  we  had  parties  all  the 
time,  but  it  was  only  the  Quinns  enjoying  themselves," 


she  says  of  those  wonderful  family  concerts  of  child- 
hood memory.  "One  of  us  would  pick  up  an  instru- 
ment, perhaps  Daddy's  violin,  and  he  would  say,  'No, 
you  do  it  this  way' — and,  before  you  knew  it,  he 
would  be  playing  and,  suddenly,  we  were  all  crowd- 
ing into  the  little  room." 

No  one  could  have  guessed  then  that  this  younger 
of  the  Quinn  sisters  would  one  day  win  a  Talent 
Scouts  contest  on  the  other  side  of  the  vast  Atlantic, 
with  none  of  her  homefolks  there  to  witness  her  tri- 
umph, or  to  see  her  become  one  of  the  famous  Little 
Godfreys.  No  one  could  have  guessed  that — in  addi- 
tion to  the  television  and  radio  {Continued  on  page  95) 


54 


Carmel  Quinn  sings  on:  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  A.M.,  and  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship— 
Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M.,  under  sponsorship  of  The  Toni  Co.,  Pillsbury  Mills,  Frigidaire— and  Arthur 
Godfrey\s  Digest,  CBS  Radio,  Fri.,  8  P.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  is  simulcast  over  CBS-TV 
and  CBS  Radio,  Mon.,  8:30  P.M.,  under  the  alternate  sponsorship  of  Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.,  and  CBS-Columbia.  (All  times  given  EDT) 


[[^iB 


New  World  magic:  On  the  great  day  honoring  St.  Patrick  himself,  Carmel  gave  a  concert  in  fabled  Carnegie  Hall.  And 
oh,  the  lovely  things  to  be  seen  in  the  shops  of  New  York!  Then,  during  a  Godfrey-show  rehearsal  break,  the  delight  of 
listening  as  the  McGuire  Sisters — Dorothy,  Christine  and  Phyllis — demonstrate  those  quaint  folk  songs  of  modern  America. 


I 


time  maglo  €>r  Ea-ln 


(Continued) 


Between  programs,  Carmei  shows  Frank   Parker  and  Tony  Marvin  how  to  "do  it  in  jig  time." 


jvening  when  the  old  organ  wasn't  giving  off  sonorous 
and  beautiful  hymns  and  delightfully  lilting  Irish 
melodies.  Carmel's  daddy  is  an  excellent  violinist, 
and  some  of  the  children  would  always  be  ready  to 
accompany  him  on  one  of  the  other  musical  instru- 
ments they  had  around — everything  from  an  accordion 
and  mouth  organ  to  quaint  hand -fashioned  instru- 
ments which  had  been  in  the  family  for  years.  And 
they  would  always  sing,  the  men  of  the  family  in 
deep,  rich  voices,  and  Carmei  and  her  sister  Betty 
in  high,  sweet  tones. 

"The  neighbors  used  to  think  we  had  parties  all  the 
time,  but  it  was  only  the  Quinns  enjoying  themselves," 


she  says  of  those  wonderful  family  concerts  of  child- 
hood memory.  "One  of  us  would  pick  up  an  instru- 
ment, perhaps  Daddy's  violin,  and  he  would  say,  'No, 
you  do  it  this  way' — and,  before  you  knew  it,  he 
would  be  playing  and,  suddenly,  we  were  all  crowd- 
ing into  the  little  room." 

No  one  could  have  guessed  then  that  this  younger 
of  the  Quinn  sisters  would  one  day  win  a  Talent 
Scouts  contest  on  the  other  side  of  the  vast  Atlantic, 
with  none  of  her  homefolks  there  to  witness  her  tri- 
umph, or  to  see  her  become  one  of  the  famous  Little 
Godfreys.  No  one  could  have  guessed  that^ — in  addi- 
tion to  the  television  and  radio  (Continued  on  page  95) 


Carmei  Quinn  sings  on:  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  CBS  Radio,  M-F.  10  A.M.,  and  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship— 
Arthur  Godjrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M.,  under  sponsorsiiip  of  The  Toni  Co.,  Pillshury  Mills,  Fiigidaire-and  Arthur 
Godfrey's  Digest,  CBS  Radio,  Fri.,  8  P.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorsiiip.  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  is  simulcast  over  CBS-TV 
and  CBS  Radio,  Mon.,  8:30  P.M.,  under  the  alternate  sponsorship  of  Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.,  and  CBS-Columbia.  (All  times  given  EDT) 


54 


New  World  mogic:  On  the  great  day  hononng  St.  Patrick  himself,  Carmei  gave  a  concert  in  fabled  Carnegie  Hall.  And 
oh,  the  lovely  things  to  be  seen  in  the  shops  of  New  York!  Then,  during  a  Godfrey-show  rehearsal  break,  the  delight  of 
listening  as  the  McGuire  Sisters— Dorothy,  Christine  and  Phyllis— demonstrate  those  quoint  folk  songs  of  modern  America. 


Never  a  dull  moment 


Larry's  wife  Judy  is  a  TV  actress,  son  David  and  daughter  Jay  have  vivid  innaginations — and  even  the  dog  is  full  of  tricks. 


Take  Mrs.  Lawrence  Weber's  word  for  it — Valiant  Lady's 

Chris  Kendall  makes  a  very  exciting  husband! 


56 


By  GREGORY  MERWIN 

SOME  OF  THE  THINGS  to  be  Said  about  Lawrence  Weber 
are  obvious.    He  is  six-feet-one,  dark  and  handsome, 
with  a  scattering  of  prematurely  gi'ay  hair  at  the 
temples.   His  eyes  are  a  dynamic  brown  and,  when  aimed 
at  women,  have  an  effect  comparable  to  a  brace  of 
Buck  Rogers  disintegrator  guns.    Or  so  it  has  been  said. 

"But  not  by  me,"  Larry  grins.    "That's  a  lot  of  hokum." 

"It's  not  hokum,"  insists  wife  Judith.    "I  remember 
when  we  first  met.   It  was  like  shaking  hands  with 
an  earth  tremor." 

They've  been  married  since  January  16,  1941.   They  have 
two  blond  and  blue-eyed  children,  a  home  on  Long  Island 
and  a  tree  which  produced  two  apples  last  summer.   Their 
garden,  however,   is   one   of  the  most  beautiful   in 
Valley  Stream — thanks  to  Laixy's  back. 

"I  spaded  the  front  lawn  in  three  (Continued  on  page  93) 

Lawrence  Weber  is  Chris  Kendall  in  Valiant  Lady,  as  seen  on  CBS-TV. 
M-F,  12  noon  EDT,  sponsored  by  General  Mills,  Inc.,  and  The  Toni  Co. 


There's  nothing  "actorish"  about  the  Webers' 
ranch  house.  And  Larry  plays  ball  with  Jay  like 
any  suburban  father  after  a  doy's  work  in  town. 


Reading  Is  on  old  delight  to  Larry,  a  new  world  of  discovery  lying  ahead  for  Jay  and  David  as  they  set  out  for  school. 


Mitii  Green  is  a  very  proud  mother,  I  can  tell  you!  Here  I  am,    parading    just   outside    our    house,    with    my   four    little 
"J's" — left  to   right,   Jay,   Jeff,   Jon   and   Joel.  There's  also  a    fifth    "J"    bouncing    along    beside    us — Junior,    our   dog. 


Recognize  this  typical  schedule?  Homework  with  Jan — naptime  for  Joy  (then  Jeff) — after-school  snack  for  Jan  and 

7"   ^  .   ■ 


Joel. 


So  This  Is  Hollywood 


I've  been  here  before.    But  now 

I'm  back,  with  Joe  and  our  babies,  and 

know  how  right  my  grandmother  was! 

By  MITZI  GREEN 

Mrrzi,  CHILD,"  my  grandmother  said  to  me  one  day, 
"there  may  be  times  when  we  don't  understand  why 
certain  things  happen.     But  remember:    They 
always  happen  for  the  best!" 

As  a  child,  those  words  didn't  mean  much  to  me.   But 
today  they  have  become  almost  a  philosophy  of  life.    In 
fact,  they  had  a  very  special  meaning  on  three  of  the 
most  important  days  of  my  life:  The  day  I  signed  my  first 
Paramount  Pictures  contract.   The  day  I  signed  my  first 
television  contract  as  the  star  of  So  This  Is  Hollywood. 
And  the  day  I  first  met  Joe  Pevney. 

I  met  Joe  in  the  summer  of  '39.    I  had  gone  to 
Ivoryton,  Connecticut,  for  summer  stock,  and  had  looked 
forward  to  a  pleasant  combination  summer  work- 
vacation.  But,  the  first  day  there,  it  seemed  as  if  everything 
were  going  wrong  and  I  was  in  for  a  summer  of  misery. 

First,  I  met  a  most  irritating  young  man  who  didn't 
think  I  was  right  for  the  part  of  the  (Continued  on  page  88) 


So  This  Is  Hollywood  is  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  8:30  P.M.  EDT,  for 
Viv  Lipstick.  Deep  Magic  Cream,  Bobbi  Home  Permanents,  and  Pamper. 


Before  even  looking  at  a  script  with  Virginia 
Gibson  and  producer  Edmund  Beloin,  I  know  I'll 
see  plenty  of  oc+ion  in  So  This  Is  Hollywood. 


Curls  were  n^.y  childhood  idea  of  movie  glamour 
when  I  played  Becky  Thatcher  and  Jackie  Coogan 
was  Tom  Sawyer  (above).  Today,  I  find  that  just 
being  with  my  husband  Joe — even  when  he's 
fishing  (left) — beats  all  the  glamour  in  the  world. 


59 


For  Cathleen  Cordell,  it  proved  to  be 
her  homeland  of  America  and  the 
very  human  drama  of  Second  Husband 

By  MARY  TEMPLE 


Cathleen's    bachelor-girl    apartment   is    a    single    room,    but 
boasts  a  private  terrace  and  a  compact  refrigerator  (right). 


Cathleen  is  Diane  Lockwood  in  Second  Husband,  CBS  Radio,  M-F, 
11:45  A.M.  EDT.  She  is  Millicent  Loring  in  Young  Widder  Brown, 
NBC  Radio,  M-F,  4:30  P.M.  EDT,  for  ihillips'  Milk  of  Magnesia, 
Bayer  Aspirin,  Prom  Home  Permanent,  White  Rain,  other  products. 


IISTENING  TO  Second  Husband,  on  CBS 
J  Radio,  no  one  can  doubt  that  Cathleen 
Cordell,  who  plays  Diane  Lockwood,  is 
a  girl  of  vivid  personality.  It  spills  over 
into  the  microphone,  although  listeners  cannot 
see  the  vivacity  of  her  face  when  she  speaks, 
the  shimmer  of  gold-red  hair,  the  greenish- 
blue  eyes,  long  slim  legs  and  slender  figure. 
.  .  .  Cathleen's  beauty  is  a  mixture  of 
American-Irish-English  ancestry.   She  was 
born  Kathleen  (spelled  then  with  a  K  but 
now  changed  to  a  C)  Kelly,  in  Brooklyn.  And 
she  is  the  first  of  her  family,  as  far  back 
as  she  knows,  to  become  an  actress. 

Cathleen  is  a  girl  of  contradictions,  of 
unexpected  and  interesting  opposites.  A  glam- 
orous woman  who  loves  all  the  luxuries  of 
life  and  yet  adores  working  and  can't 
imagine  not  being  busy  at  something  all  the 
time  .  .  .  working  hard,  too,  and  putting 
her  whole  heart  into  it.    A  girl  who  wears 
simple  clothes  with  elegance  and  elegant 
clothes  with  simplicity  .  .  .  who  has  lived  in 
many  foreign  countries — India,  France, 
England — and  is  at  home  practically  any- 
where in  the  world,  yet  brings  a  distinction  of 
her  own  to  a  bachelor-girl,  one-room  hotel- 
apartment  in  New  York.  A  girl  who  loves 
parties  and  fun,  dining  (Continued  on  page  69) 


60 


Her  stage  career  has  been  on  exciting  one,  both  here  ond  in  Englond,  but  Cothleen  oppreciotes  the  rare  leisure  which 
acting  in  daytime  dramas  has  given  her.  There's  time  now  to  relax  at  home,  reading  or  listening  to  the  radio — to  play 
with  "Maya,"  pampered  pet  of  the  neighborhood — to  dress  for  a  date,  knowing  the  whole  evening  is  free  just  to  have  fun. 


61 


This  Is  Nora  Drake 


1.  Stunned  and  heartsick  over  the  death  of  her  husband,  Nora  Drake  avoids  a  breakdown  by  working  to  bring  his  murderers 
to  justice.    Then  Nora  begins  to  pick  up  the  threads  of  normal  life  once  again— and,  at  a  party,  meets  publisher  Alan  Miller. 


62 


i 


I     ( 


2.  When  Nora  accepts  an  invitation  to  the  Miller  home,  she  hordly  expects  to  stumble  on  on  argument 
in  which  Alon  angrily  warns  his  wife  Diana:  "Stay  away  from  that  man.    Stay  away  from  David  Brown!" 


IiFE  CATCHES  US  Up  in  its  activities,  Nora  Drake 
■  mused,  calling  us  with  a  strident,  insistent 
voice  to  come  out  of  ourselves  and  meet  its  de- 
mands. This  was  a  blessing,  she  knew,  for  only 
by  catching  up  the  threads  of  her  life  once  again 
had  she  avoided  the  despair  which  had  almost 
consumed  her  when  Fred  Molina  died  so  tragi- 
cally. .  .  .  Nora's  few  months  of  marriage  to  Fred 
had  been  the  happiest  she  had  ever  known.  But, 
even  before  their  marriage,  Fred  had  been  threat- 
ened by  the  underworld  Syndicate  run  by  Lee 
King  and  Dan  Welch.  Together,  Fred  and  Nora 
had  tried  to  destroy  the  Syndicate,  and  had  even- 
tually succeeded — at  the  cost  of  Fred's  own  life. 
.  .  .  Heartsick,  Nora  had  determined  to  bring 
Fred's   murderers   to   justice.     Eventually,   Dan 


Welch  had  confessed,  and  Lee  King — in  trying  to 
escape  from  justice — had  been  killed  in  an  auto- 
mobile accident.  Only  Wynne  Robinson — the 
wealthy,  attractive  socialite  who  had  aided  Welch 
and  King — had  avoided  trial  by  fleeing  to  Europe. 
But  Wynne  doesn't  escape  punishment — for,  when 
she  arrives  in  Marseilles,  she  is  penniless,  and 
her  once-glamorous  life  is  no  more.  .  .  .  With  these 
tragic  events  now  in  the  past,  Nora  sets  about 
starting  a  new  life.  She  throws  herself  into  her 
work  as  a  hospital  nurse,  which  helps  ease  the 
pain  in  her  heai't.  David  Brown,  the  crime  re- 
porter who  has  become  Nora's  friend,  also  helps 
her  find  new  interests.  He  persuades  Nora  to 
attend  a  party  where  she  meets  his  pubUsher, 
Alan  Miller.    Invited  to  Miller's  home,  Nora  meets 


See  Next  Page 


63 


I 


This  Is  Nora  Drake 


1.  Stunned  ond  heartsick  over  the  death  of  her  husbonri    Nr,r^  n     L  -i       ,  .  ,Af 

to  justice.  Then  Nora  beqins  to  pick  up  the  thread    of  norSf  °"°"^'  °  breakdown  by  working  to  bring  h,s  murd 

p  tne  threads  of  normol  l,fe  once  ogoin-ond,  ot  a  porty,  meets  publisher  Alon  M' 


'dere's 

lille'- 


62 


2.  When  Nora  accepts  an  invitation  to  the  Miller  home,  she  hardly  expects  td  stumble  on  on  argument 
in  which  Alan  angrily  warns  his  wife  Diano;  "Stay  away  from  that  man.   Stay  oway  from  David  Brown!" 


La"E  CATCHES  US  Up  in  its  activities,  Nora  Drake 
■  mused,  calling  us  with  a  strident,  insistent 
voice  to  come  out  of  ourselves  and  meet  its  de- 
mands. This  was  a  blessing,  she  knew,  for  only 
by  catching  up  the  threads  of  her  life  once  again 
had  she  avoided  the  despair  which  had  almost 
consumed  her  when  Fred  Molina  died  so  tragi- 
cally. .  .  .  Nora's  few  months  of  marriage  to  Fred 
had  been  the  happiest  she  had  ever  known.  But, 
even  before  their  marriage,  Fred  had  been  threat- 
ened by  the  underworld  Syndicate  run  by  Lee 
King  and  Dan  Welch.  Together,  Fred  and  Nora 
had  tried  to  destroy  the  Syndicate,  and  had  even- 
tually succeeded — at  the  cost  of  Fred's  own  life. 
.  .  .  Heartsick,  Nora  had  determined  to  bring 
Fred's   murderers   to   justice.     Eventually,   Dan 


Welch  had  confessed,  and  Lee  King — in  trying  to 
escape  from  justice — had  been  killed  in  an  auto- 
mobile accident.  Only  Wynne  Robinson — the 
wealthy,  attractive  socialite  who  had  aided  Welch 
and  King — had  avoided  trial  by  fleeing  to  Europe. 
But  Wynne  doesn't  escape  punishment — for,  when 
she  arrives  in  Marseilles,  she  is  penniless,  and 
her  once-glamorous  life  is  no  more. .  . .  With  these 
tragic  events  now  in  the  past,  Nora  sets  about 
starting  a  new  life.  She  throws  herself  into  her 
work  as  a  hospital  nurse,  which  helps  ease  the 
pain  in  her  heart.  David  Brown,  the  crime  re- 
porter who  has  become  Nora's  friend,  also  helps 
her  find  new  interests.  He  persuades  Nora  to 
attend  a  party  where  she  meets  his  publisher, 
Alan  Miller.    Invited  to  Miller's  home,  Nora  meets 


See  Next  Page 


This  Is  Nora  Drake 


{Continued) 


3.  Reporter  David  Brown,  now  Nora's  -friend,  is  assigned 
to  a  big  story  and  works  with  Detective  Ca'udill  (left)  to 
track  down  the  murderer  who  scrawls  this  strange  message. 


4.  Meanwhile,  Wynne  Robinson,  the  socialite  involved  with 
the  Syndicate  that  murdered  Fred,  flees  to  Europe  and 
meets  punishment  as  she  arrives  penniless  in  a  strange  land. 


his  wife,  Diana — and  later  overhears  a  quarrel  between 
Alan  and  Diana.  "Stay  away  from  that  man,"  Alan 
warns.  "Stay  away  from  David!"  Puzzled,  Nora  won- 
ders: What  is  Diana's  interest  in  David?  And  what  is 
it  about  David  that  makes  Alan  warn  his  wife?  .  .  .  Al- 
though both  Alan  and  David's  parents  feel  David  shovdd 
switch  to  writing  editorials,  David  insists  upon  remain- 
ing a  crime  reporter.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Brown  are  frankly 
worried  about  David,  and  Nora  wonders  what  lies  be- 


Piclured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Nora  Drake Joan  Tompkins 

David   Brown Michael   Kane 

Alan    Miller Craig   McDonnell 

Wynne    Rohinson Claudia    Morgan 

Detective  Charles  Caudill Paul  McGrath 

This  /,-  A'ora  Drake  is  heard  over  CBS   Radio,  M-F,  2:30  P.M. 
F,1)T,  sponsored  Ijy  The  Toni  Company  and  Bristol-Myers  Company. 


hind  Mrs.  Brown's  anxious  remark:  "If  David  goes  on 
as  a  crime  reporter,  he  may  find  out  the  truth  about 
himself."  .  .  .  Currently,  David  has  been  working  on  the 
case  of  a  series  of  shocking  murders  which  have  com- 
pletely baffled  the  police — particularly  because,  near  the 
body  of  each  victim,  the  murderer  has  written:  "Please 
stop  me  before  I  kill  again."  ...  In  tracking  down  every 
lead,  David's  trail  of  clues  takes  him  to  the  hospital  and 
one  of  Nora's  new  patients,  John  Dallas,  who  has  shown 
definite  signs  of  being  mentally  disturbed.  David  sus- 
pects Dallas  is  the  psychopathic  murderer,  and  seeks 
information  about  him  from  Nora.  When — true  to  medi- 
cail  ethics — Nora  denies  David's  i-equest,  they  argue 
sharply.  .  .  .  But — if  David  is  right,  is  there  danger  in 
Nora's  workaday  contacts  with  John  Dallas?  And  what 
about  David  himself?  What  is  the  mysterious  "truth" 
Mrs.  Brown  fears  her  son  may  discover?  .  .  .  As  Nora 
Drake  becomes  more  absorbed  in  her  new  life,  is  there 
a  chance  that  in  time  she  will  find  new  happiness,  to 
replace  the  love  she  has  lost?  And,  even  if  the  future 
may  hold  brighter  promises,  will  it  also  reveal  even 
greater  danger  than  Nora  has  ever  known  before? 


64 


5.  David's  hunt  for  the  psychopathic  killer  leads  to  a  patient  under  Nora's  care.  David  demands  that 
Nora  allow  him  to  question  the  mon  and,  when  she  insists  on  guarding  her  patient,  they  quarrel  sharply. 
David's  concern  is  over  more  than  a  newspaper  headline.   If  his  guess  is  right,  Is  Nora  In  serious  danger? 


65 


I 


64 


This  Is  Mom  Drake 

(Continued) 


3.  Reporter  David  Brown,  now  Nora's  friend,  is  assigned 
to  a  big  story  and  works  with  Detective  Coudill  (left)  to 
track  down  the  murderer  who  scrawls  this  strange  message. 


his  wife,  Diana — and  later  overhears  a  quarrel  between 
Alan  and  Diana.  "Stay  away  from  that  man,"  Alan 
warns.  "Stay  away  from  David!"  Puzzled,  Nora  won- 
ders: What  is  Diona's  interest  in  David?  And  what  is 
it  about  David  that  makes  Alan  warn  his  wife?  .  .  .  Al- 
though both  Alan  and  David's  parents  feel  David  should 
switch  to  writing  editorials,  David  insists  upon  remain- 
ing a  crime  reporter.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Brown  are  frankly 
worried  about  David,  and  Nora  wonders  what  lies  be- 


Picluied  here,  a«  heiird  on  the  air.  are: 

'^»"^'"'"= Joan  Tompkins 

David  Brown Michael  Kane 

*'""   *""" Craig   McDonnell 

Wynne    Robinson Claudia   Morgan 

Detective  Charles  CaudiU p„„,  McGrath 

Uhls  Nora  Orate  is  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  MF,  2:30  PM 
E1)T,  sponsored  by  The  Ton.  Company  and  Bristol-Mye^s  Compan'; 


64 


4.  Meanwhile,  Wynne  Robinson,  the  socialite  involved  with 
the  Syndicate  that  murdered  Fred,  flees  to  Europe  and 
meets  punishment  as  she  arrives  penniless  in  a  strange  land. 


hind  Mrs.  Brown's  anxious  remark:  "If  David  goes  on 
as  a  crime  reporter,  he  may  find  out  the  truth  about 
himself."  .  .  .  Currently,  David  has  been  working  on  the 
case  of  a  series  of  shocking  murders  which  have  com- 
pletely baffled  the  police — particularly  because,  near  the 
body  of  each  victim,  the  murderer  has  written:  "Please 
stop  me  before  I  kill  again."  ...  In  tracking  down  every 
lead,  David's  trail  of  clues  takes  him  to  the  hospital  and 
one  of  Nora's  new  patients,  John  Dallas,  who  has  shown 
definite  signs  of  being  mentally  disturbed.  David  sus- 
pects Dallas  is  the  psychopathic  murderer,  and  seeks 
mfoi-mation  about  him  from  Nora.  When— true  to  medi- 
cal ethics— Nora  denies  David's  request,  they  argue 
sharply.  .  .  .  But-if  David  is  right,  is  there  danger  m 
JNora  s  workaday  contacts  with  John  Dallas?  And  what 
about  David  himself?  What  is  the  mysterious  "trutb 
Mrs  Brown  fears  her  son  may  discover?  .  .  .  As- Nora 
i^rake  becomes  more  absorbed  in  her  new  life,  is  there 
a  chance  that  in  time  she  wUl  find  new  happiness,  to 
replace  the  love  she  has  lost?  And,  even  if  the  future 
may  hold  brighter  promises,  will  it  also  reveal  even 
greater  danger  than  Nora  has  ever  known  before? 


I       _^A 

•^ 

^^^^^^ifiifl 

,.-.„^ 

5.  David's  hunt  for  the  psychopathic  killer  leads  to  a  patient  under  Nora's  care.  David  demands  thot 
Nora  allow  him  to  question  the  man  and,  when  she  insists  on  guarding  her  patient,  they  quarrel  sharply. 
David's  concern  is  over  more  than  a  newspaper  headline.  If  his  guess  is  right,  is  Nora  in  serious  danger? 


65 


THE  LONG  lATAY  HOME 


A 


hi- 


Tom  had  known  from  teen-doys  that  marriage  to  "Bo"  would  be  his  dream  of  happiness. 


The  truth  about  Tom  Moore's  marriage 
— and  re-marriage — is  as  old  as  time, 
as  new  as  mans  first  love  for  woman 

By  HAROLD  KEENE 


TOM  MOORE  stood  at  the  water's  edge  in  Cypress 
Gardens,  Florida,  staring  out  across  the 
mirror-like  surface  to  the  far  vista  of  fiower- 
hiing  trees  and  deep  green  hammocks.  A  speed- 
boat towing  a  pair  of  water  skiers,  a  boy  and  a 
lovely  girl,  sped  past,  but  Tom's  eyes  didn't  move 
to  follow  them.  In  fact,  he  wasn't  even  seeing  the 
water  or  the  glamorous  setting. 

Instead,  strangely,  he  was  watching  himself  as 
a  younger  man  back  in  1939,  not  gray-haired 
then,  but  certainly  gray  of  face  as  he  paced  the 
hospital  corridors  waiting  for  Bo  to  have  their 
baby.  They'd  been  married  six  years,  by  then, 
and  this  was  to  be  their  first  and — as  it  turned 
out — only  child.  And  when  at  last  he'd  been 
allowed  to  go  in  to  her,  and  she  had  told  him 
wearily  but  triumphantly  that  she'd  given  him 
a  son,  it  had  seemed  to  him  that  he  had  achieved 
the  greatest  happiness  a  man  could  know. 

Yet,  twelve  years  later,  he  and  Bo  had  been 


His  mother  and   Bo  were  proud  of  his  success  in 
Chicago — but  that  early  fame  brought  heartbreak. 


Florida  Calling  With  Tom  Moore  is  heard  on  Mutual,  M-F, 
11  A.M.  EDT,  for  the  Florida  Citrus  Commission.  Tom  also 
emcees   True   Or  False,   on   Mutual,   Sat.,   8   P.M.    EDT. 


See  Next  Page 


► 


67 


THE  LONG  IVAir  HOM[E 


(Continued) 


divorced.  Now,  tonight,  when  he  returned  to  the  gay 
stucco  bungalow  in  near-by  Winter  Haven,  it  would  be 
to  a  different  girl,  the  pretty  and  charming  Willie  Lou, 
whom  he  had  married  shortly  after  he  and  Bo  had  parted. 
Now  Tom,  Jr.,  sixteen  and  already  six-foot-three,  was  in 
a  miUtary  school  up  North — and  Bo  was  alone,  he  sup- 
posed, in  their  old  house  in  Northfield,  Illinois,  and — well, 
Tom  Moore  was  a  confused  and  unhappy  man. 

He  knew  that,  when  he  walked  into  his  bungalow  in 
another  hour  or  two,  Lou  would  be  waiting  for  him,  as 
she  always  had  during  the  more  than  three  years  of 
their  marriage.  She  would  have  done  everything  possible 
to  arrange  for  his  comfort  and  convenience,  and  she 
would  be  ready  with  laughter,  or  understanding,  or  pa- 
tient silence.    She  was  a  grand  girl,  and  a  good  wife. 

But  there  was  a  loneliness  in  Tom's  heart,  a  need  that 
only  one  woman  could  fill,  and  that  woman  was  Bo. 
Tom  had  known  it  for  a  long  time.  At  first  he  had  tried 
to  deny  the  knowledge,  forget  it,  put  it  out  of  his  mind. 
It  was  a  good  try,  but  it  couldn't  work,  because  Bo  had 
been  a  part  of  him  too  long,  their  love  too  much  a  part 
of  Tom's  entire  adult  life.  .  .  . 

So  it  was  that,  when  I  talked  with  Tom  in  Winter 
Haven,  not  long  ago,  he  dropped  a  bombshell  in  front  of 
me  and  nearly  knocked  my  ears  off.  I  had  known  him 
only  during  recent  years,  since  his  Ladies  Fair  show  had 
moved  to  Florida.  During  that  time  he  had  seemed  to  be 
immensely  happy  with  Lou,  especially  during  the  weeks 
when  young  Tom  could  be  with  them.  Then  they  had 
given  the  outward  appearance  of  a  perfect  family  group 
— smiling  and  busy,  active  in  sports,  completely  devoted. 

I  said  to  Tom,  "I  know  we  ran  a  story  about  you  and 


Lou  only  a  httle  over  six  months  ago,  but  your  fans  are 
screaming  for  more."  And  I  added,  innocently  enough, 
"Anything  important  happen  recently?" 

Tom  is  nothing  if  not  direct.  "Yes.  Lou  and  I  have 
arranged  for  a  divorce,  and  Bo  and  I  are  going  to  be 
re-married.  In  the  same  little  church  where  we  were 
first  married  in  1933,  with  the  same  minister  officiating. 
We're  only  waiting  till  summer  because  then  our  son  will 
be  out  of  military  school  and  can  stand  up  with  us." 

When  I  had  regained  my  voice,  I  said  one  word: 
"Why?" 

He  answered,  simply,  "Because  I  want  to  go  home." 

The  story  of  Tom  and  Bo  and  Lou,  and  of  the  almost 
tragic  mistake  in  which  all  three  were  involved — as  Tom 
told  it  to  me  that  afternoon — has  had  its  counterpart  in 
so  many  American  homes  that  almost  any  person  can 
understand  some  of  the  emotional  turmoil  of  each  of 
these  thoroughly  nice,  very  human  beings.  This  is  no 
casual  Hollywood-type  scenario  of  marriage,  divorce,  and 
reconciliation. 

Tom,  Bo,  and  Lou  are  people  like  you  and  me,  trying 
to  do  their  best,  making  mistakes,  working  hard  at  the 
pursuit  of  elusive  happiness,  and  often,  in  the  words  of 
Thoreau,  leading  "lives  of  quiet  desperation."  We  know 
them.    They  are  our  neighbors,  they  are  ourselves. 

Well,  maybe  Tom  represents  an  exception,  in  that  he 
was  born  in  a  trunk  in  the  dressing  room  of  his  vaude- 
ville parents,  while  they  were  touring  a  circuit.  That 
meant  that  he  grew  up  in  show  business  and  that  his 
conception  of  home  life  was,  even  into  his  adolescence, 
a  hopping  succession  of  moves  from  one  town  to  another. 
Seemed  perfectly  normal  to  a   (Continued  on  page  92) 


Three  make  a  family.    Bo  and  Tom  want  to  be  together,  watching  Tom,  Jr.  grow  up,  whether  in  the  Midwest  or  Florida. 


^;  ,-'^/^r^r  ;;i-^r''>.  '-^  :n''^: 


I 


Where  the  Heart 
Belongs 

{Continued  from  page  60) 
out  in  good  restaurants  in  good  company, 
going  to  the  races,  travel  .  .  .  and  yet  is 
perfectly  content  to  stay  home  alone  many 
evenings  and  to  read,  or  listen  to  the  radio. 

Even  her  tastes  in  food  are  contradic- 
tory. Since  her  parents  took  her  overseas 
when  she  was  only  five  fher  father  was 
an  engineer  whose  work  sent  him  to  many 
parts  of  the  world),  Cathleen  has  been 
exposed  to  all  varieties  of  foreign  cooking, 
and  she  now  lives  in  a  part  of  New  York 
that  is  honeycombed  with  fine  restaurants. 
Yet  the  little  refrigerator  in  her  apartment 
(disguised  to  look  like  a  modem- design 
TV  set  because  it  has  to  be  out  in  plain 
sight)  holds  only  such  things  as  cottage 
cheese  and  salad,  gelatin  and  fruit,  milk 
and  eggs.  And  the  waiters  at  the  Stork, 
"21"  and  similar  spots  will  tell  you  that 
their  orders  for  exotic  dishes  never  come 
from  Miss  Cordell.  ("I  really  like  burnt 
toast,  cake  when  it's  a  little  stale,  and 
overdone  omelets,"  she  says.) 

She's  a  pushover  for  biographical  books 
but  doesn't  care  at  all  for  books  written 
about  the  theater:  "It's  odd,  I  suppose,  but 
I  don't."  She  was  a  "reader"  for  several 
London  publishers  when  she  was  quite 
young,  combining  one  of  her  favorite 
pastimes  with  some  extra  money  to  live 
on  while  she  was  learning  her  way  about 
the  theater. 

Word  games,  like  Scrabble,  fascinate  her, 
but  figures  frighten  her.  "I  really  can't 
add  at  all,  and  if  it  were  not  for  my  won- 
derful mother,  who  helps  me  with  my 
accounts,  I  wouldn't  know  what  was  hap- 
pening to  my  money.  She  sees  that  I  in- 
vest some  of  it,  and  she  keeps  all  the  ac- 
counts straight." 

Travel  still  beckons  to  Cathleen,  but  she 
has  had  to  remain  in  New  York  the 
past  three  summers,  and  this  one  promises 
to  be  no  exception.  Friends  with  winter 
homes  in  sunny  climes  urge  her  to  join 
them  in  winter.  Friends  with  homes  at 
the  shore  ask  her  out  for  summer  week- 
ends. But,  because  of  her  work,  Cathleen 
has  found  it  easier  to  settle  for  some  com- 
fortable lounging  chairs  on  her  outdoor 
terrace  high  above  a  street  in  the  East 
Fifties,  a  terrace  planted  with  greenery 
and  flowers  and  made  gay  with  bright 
cushions. 

She  loves  animals,  especially  dogs,  but 
because  of  her  busy  life  she  has  had  to 
compromise  for  a  place  in  the  affections 
of  a  beautiful  tawny  boxer  named  Maya, 
who  belongs  to  a  restaurateur  friend  in 
the  neighborhood.  Whenever  she  has  time, 
she  borrows  Maya. 

Her  apartment  has  such  limited  closet 
room  that  Cathleen  has  to  park  some  of 
her  wardrobe  at  her  mother's  larger  apart- 
ment, some  with  near-by  friends,  and 
store  some  away,  but  there  are  always 
half  a  dozen  cocktail  and  evening  dresses 
hanging  in  her  own  small  wardrobe  space, 
because  she  is  a  popular  girl  who  is  asked 
out  a  lot.  She  likes  straight-line,  simple, 
I  dark  clothes,  but  looks  devastating  in  full- 

skirted  filmy  frocks  with  tight  bodices. 
Her  favorite  colors  are  gray,  and  blue  and 
green  to  go  with  her  eyes.  She  wears 
either  a  size  9  or  10. 

Englishmen  appeal  to  Cathleen  strongly, 
but  she  doesn't  want  to  marry  an  actor, 
even  an  English  one.    She  admires  Irish- 

Irnen,  too,  thinks  that  Ed  Slattery,  the 
director  of  Second  Husband,  is  "an  utterly 
charming  man  and  a  wonderful  director." 
She  knew  the  late  George  Bernard  Shaw 
and  says  she  will  never  forget  his  special 
charm,  the  interesting  face,  the  bright 
blue,  piercing  eyes. 


if  Stunning  attractive  candid  photos  of  all  your  favor- 
ites !  Suitable  for  framing  in  handsome  4x5  size,  these 
superb  pictures  are  quality  printed  on  glossy  stock. 
Look  over  the  list.  Keep  up  to  date.  Order  novir  for 
yourself  and  friends. 


CANDIDS 


1.  Lana  Turner 

2.  Betty  Grable 
3-  Ava  Gardner 

4.  Clark  Gable 

5.  Alan  Ladd 

6.  Tyrone  Power 

7.  Gregory  Peck 

8.  Rita  Hayworth 

9.  Esther  Williams 
11.  Elizabeth  Taylor 

14.  Cornel  Wilde 

15.  Frank  Sinatra 

18.  Rory  Calhoun 

19.  Peter  Lawford 

2 1 .  Bob  Mitchum 

22.  Burt  Lancaster 

23.  Bing  Crosby 
25.  Dale  Evans 
27.  June  AUyson 

30.  Dana  Andrews 

31.  Glenn  Ford 

33.  Gene  Autry 

34.  Roy  Rogers 

35.  Sunset  Carson 
46.  Kathryn  Grayson 

50.  Diana  Lynn 

5 1 .  Doris  Day 

52.  Montgomery Clift 

53.  Richard Widmark 

54.  Mona  Freeman 

56.  Perry  Como 

57.  BillHolden 

65.  Jane  Powell 

66.  Gordon  MacRae 

67.  Ann  Blyth 

68.  Jeanne  Grain 

69.  Jane  Russell 

74.  John  Wayne 

75.  Yvonne  de  Carlo 
78.  Audie  Murphy 


84.  Janet  Leigh 

86.  Farley  Granger 

88.  Tony  Martin 

91.  John  Derek 

92.  Guy  Madison 

93.  Ricardo  Montalban 

94.  Mario  Lanza 
97.  Kirk  Douglas 

103.  Scott  Brady 

105.  Vic  Damone 

106.  Shelley  Winters 

107.  Richard  Todd 

108.  Vera-EUen 

109.  Dean  Martin 

110.  Jerry  Lewis 

111.  Howard  Keel 

112.  Susan  Hay  ward 

113.  Barbara  Stanwyck 
117.  Terry  Moore 
121.  Tony  Curtis 

124.  Gail  Davis 

127.  Piper  Laurie 

128.  Debbie  Reynolds 

135.  Jeflf  Chandler 

136.  Rock  Hudson 

137.  Stewart  Granger 

139.  Debra  Paget 

140.  Dale  Robertson 

141.  Marilyn  Monroe 

142.  Leslie  Caron 

143.  Pier  Angeli 

144.  Mitzi  Gaynor 

145.  Marlon  Brando 

146.  AldoRay 

147.  Tab  Hunter 

148.  Robert  Wagner 

149.  RussTamblyn 

150.  Jeff  Hunter 
152.  Marge  and  Gow- 

er  Champion 


153.  Fernando  Lamas 

160.  John  Forsythe 

161.  Lori  Nelson 

162.  Ursula  Thiess 

163.  Elaine  Stewart 

174.  Rita  Gam 

175.  Charlton  Heston 

176.  Steve  Cochran 

177.  Richard  Burton 

179.  Julius  La  Rosa 

180.  Lucille  Ball 

181.  Eve  Arden 

182.  Jack  Webb 
185.  Richard  Egan 

187.  Jeff  Richards 

188.  Rosemary  Clooney 

189.  Guy  Mitchell 

190.  Pat  Crowley 

191.  Robert  Taylor 

192.  Jean  Simmons 

193.  Richard  Anderson 

194.  Audrey  Hepburn 
196.  Steve  Forrest 


197. 
198. 
199. 
200. 
201. 
202. 
203. 
204. 
205. 
206. 
207. 
208. 
209. 
210. 
211. 
212. 
213. 
214. 
215. 
216. 
217. 
218. 


Joan  Caulfield 
Gale  Storm 
Dinah  Shore 
Barry  Nelson 
Ray  Milland 
George  Nader 
Reed  Hadley 
Jo  Stafford 
Ann  Sothern 
David  Brian 
Eddie  Fisher 
Jane  Froman 
Liberace 

Dorothy  Dandridi 
Bob  Francis 
Grace  Kelly 
James  Dean 
Sheree  North 
Kim  Novak 
Richard  Davalos 
Julie  Adams 
Eva  Marie  Saint 


FILL   IN   AND    MAIL 
COUPON  TODAY! 


I 
I 
I 
I 
■ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 


WORLD  WIDE,  DEPT.  RM-7 

63  CENTRAL  AVE..  OSSINING,  N.  Y. 

I    enclose    $ for    candid 

pictures  of  my  favorite  stars  and  have  circled 
the  numbers  of  the  ones  you  ore  to  send  me 
by  return  mail. 

NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE y 

g 
Fill  out  and   mail  coupon  today.  Send   cash 
or  money  order.  12  pictures  for  $1 ;  6  for  50c. 


69 


T 
» 

70 


ARE  YOU  "ALL  MOUTH" 
-AND   NO   EYES? 

If  you  use  lipstick,  you  need  MAYBELLINE  eye  make-up  to  accent 
your  eyes — for  real  beauty  is  balanced  beauty. 

Your  eyes  are  your  most  important  feature!  Don't  leave  them 
"washed-out  looking"  in  contrast  to  a  vividly  made-up  mouth. 

Make    your   eyes   truly    lovely  today  —  quickly    and    easily  —  with 


PREFERRED       BY        S  AA  A  R  T 
WO/WEN     THE     WORLD    OVER 


EYE       SHADOW     •    EYEBROW 


OlSBI! 


•     MASCARA 


MACNEflC 
POT  HOLDERS 


Place  these 
quilted 

magnetic  pot 
holders  flat 

against  any  metal  surface 
(stove,    refrigerator,   metal 
cabinets,  etc.).  Presto!  They 
"stay  put"— ready  and   handy 
to  use  .  .  .  flip  them  back 
against  the  metal-and  they 
stay  in  place... as  decorative 
as  they  are  useful  .  .  .  tiny 
magnets  are  invisible  and  will 
last  forever  .  .  .  washable  and 
rust  proof  ...  no  modern 
kitchen  should  be  without 
them... makes  a  stunning  gift 
.  .  .  Order  yours  NOW!  We  pay 
postage!  Use  coupon. 


"TWIN 
KITTENS" 


$ 


only 

25 

a  pair 


1 


World  Wide 

63  Central  Ave.,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

/  enclose  $.  .  .  .for.  .  ."Twin  KHfens" 

Poi  Holders. 


Name 

Streef 

City Zone.  .  .  .State, 

Send  cash  or  money  order. 


your  hair  needs  LOVALON 


For  gayer,  brighter,  more  colorful 
looking  hair,  be  sure  to  use  LOVALON 
after  each  shampoo.  Lovalon  removes 
dull  film,  blends  in  off  color  or  gray- 
ing streaks  and  softens  the  appear- 
ance of  dyed  hair.  Not  a  permanent 
dye,  not  a  bleach  —  Lovalon  is  a  rinse 
made  in  12  hair  i 
shades.  Select 
the  shade  fori 
your  coloring. 

10^  for  2  rinses 
250  for  6  rinses 


It  was  Shaw  himself  who  was  partially 
responsible  for  changing  her  name  to  Cor- 
dell  from  Kelly,  when  she  was  about  six- 
teen and  beginning  her  acting  career  in 
England.   He,  and  a  well-known  producer. 

"I  rebelled  at  first,  and  I  didn't  like  the 
name  Mr.  Shaw  suggested  for  me  in  a 
letter  he  wrote  while  I  was  doing  his 
'Major  Barbara'  in  England,  for  the  films. 
His  choice  of  name  was  Kitty  Kordant. 
I  thought  it  had  a  harsh  sound. 

"At  that  time,  I  had  lived  abroad  so 
long  that  I  didn't  know  there  was  a  won- 
derful and  famous  actress  in  America  by 
the  name  of  Katharine  Cornell,  so  it  was 
quite  by  accident  that  I  chose  a  name  so 
like  hers.  I  should  never  have  done  it  by 
design.  It  happened  that  Cordell  Hull  was 
much  in  the  London  headlines  and  I  liked 
the  name  Cordell.  I  took  it  as  my  last 
name  and  replaced  the  K  in  Kathleen 
with  a  C.  I  am  amused  sometimes  now 
when  I  ring  people  up  and  give  my  name, 
and  get  a  reception  out  of  all  proportion 
to  their  interest  in  me,  until  they  find 
out  I  am  not  Katharine  Cornell!" 

Except  for  a  brief  visit  back  to  her  na- 
tive America  when  she  was  fifteen,  Cath- 
leen  was  largely  influenced  by  the  British 
stage.  She  went  to  the  Royal  Academy  of 
Dramatic  Arts  in  London,  and  it  was 
there  that  Shaw  came  to  direct  them,  in  a 
performance   of   "Heartbreak   House." 

A  long  apprenticeship  followed,  in  a 
repertory  company  in  the  north  of  Eng- 
land— very  much  like  our  summer  stock, 
except  that  this  was  an  all-year-round 
company:  "It  was  cold  and  foggy  and  I 
was  often  miserable,  but  it  was  good 
theater  and  I  was  learning  some  of  the 
things  I  very  much  needed  to  know  about 
my  craft."  It  led  to  the  London  stage,  to 
good  parts  in  fine  plays.  When  World 
War  II  broke  out,  Cathleen  was  in  "De- 
sign for  Living,"  with  Rex  Harrison. 

These  were  times  when  everyone  in 
England  was  called  upon  for  special  effort 
and,  as  a  member  of  the  BBC  (British 
Broadcasting)  repertory  company,  Cath- 
leen was  asked  to  join  a  group  that  was 
being  sent  out  of  London  to  a  secret  des- 
tination in  the  heart  of  the  country,  there 
to  broadcast  to  England  and  the  Empire. 
They  did  everything  from  wartime  docu- 
mentaries to  gay  nausicals  to  help  keep  up 
morale.  They  worked  hard,  lived  simply, 
almost  austerely  at  times.  When  they  were 
shifted  from  country  living  to  the  city  of 
Manchester,  some  of  them  were  housed  in 
a  building  which  had  been  a  shop,  and 
Cathleen  slept  in  a  room  which  was  for- 
merly a  show  window.  She  had  only  to 
pull  the  curtains  apart  to  find  herself  prac- 
tically in  the  street. 

It  was  in  England  that  Cathleen  did  a 
British  version  of  "Gaslight,"  playing  the 
role  which  Angela  Lansbury  did  in  Holly- 
wood. It  was  her  first  movie,  and  she 
thought  it  a  terrific  break  because  the 
film  was  to  be  shown  in  her  native 
America.  But  it  never  got  to  this  country 
until  quite  recently.  She  did  "Major  Bar- 
bara," the  movie  directed  by  Gabriel  Pas- 
cal, but  her  part  was  cut  down  after  film- 
ing was  finished  because  the  picture  ran 
far  too  long.  There  had  been  one  long 
speech  of  which  she  was  very  proud — and 
that  was  completely  cut.  The  scene  had 
been  filmed  near  London  Bridge,  and  when 
she  did  it,  all  the  extras  and  the  crowds 
that  swarmed  around  the  docks  had  burst 
into  spontaneous  applause  as  she  finished 
her  speech,  and  Mr.  Pascal  had  told  her 
she'd  never  get  a  greater  compliment. 

Cathleen's  film  career  was  terribly  dis- 
appointing, but  there  were  many  stage 
successes  and  she  was  doing  marvelously 
well — when  suddenly  she  decided  to  come 
back  to  this  country.  For  one  thing,  her 
father's  health  was  not  good.    (He  died  a 


little  later.  Her  only  brother,  who  was 
in  the  Air  Force,  had  been  killed  during 
the  war  in  the  skies  over  England.)  For 
another,  this  was  her  homeland. 

It  was  fine  to  be  home.  But,  after  a 
while,  Cathleen  began  to  realize  that  if 
she  wanted  to  work — and  she  simply  could 
not  imagine  a  life  without  her  work — she 
would  have  to  get  out  and  do  something 
about  it.  Cathleen  Cordell  had  been  a 
rising  young  actress  in  England,  but  New 
York  was  not  completely  aware  of  her. 
Once  started,  she  was  in  Broadway  show 
after  .show,  but  there  were  drawbacks  to 
this:  "They  were  all  flops,  even  if  ex- 
tremely distinguished  flops.  I  had  a  good 
part  in  Terrence  Rattigan's  'While  the  Sun 
Shines,'  but  the  play  had  no  run.  I  was 
in  'Sheppy,'  with  Edmund  Gwenn  ...  in 
Guy  Bolton's  'Golden  Wings'  .  .  .  'Yes- 
terday's Magic,'  with  Paul  Miuii,  which 
was  written  by  Ejnlyn  Williams  and  ran 
six  weeks — a  record  run  for  me  on  Broad- 
way .  .  .  and  my  last  one,  Priestly's  'Linden 
Tree,'  produced  by  Maurice  Evans." 

Radio  was  rather  like  a  breeze,  a  sweet 
and  lovely  breeze  that  never  stopped 
blowing.  "I  have  never  had  what  you 
would  call  a  'slump'  in  radio.  Not  from 
the  day  I  started.  A  rvmning  part  in  The 
Romance  Of  Helen  Trent  had  to  be  given 
up  only  because  the  time  conflicted  with 
my  work  in  Second  Husband.  For  almost 
two  years,  I  have  been  MiUicent  Loring 
on  Young  Widder  Brown.  Even  on  tele- 
vision I  have  done  many  of  the  dramatic 
shows,  such  as  Studio  One,  Kraft  and 
Philco.  I  played  a  running  part  on  Search 
For  Tomorrow  during  its  first  months  on 
the  air.  And  I  have  done  parts  on  many 
of  radio's  big  dramatic  programs. 

"I  used  to  do  many  German  parts, 
countesses  and  the  like.  And  French  girls. 
And,  of  course,  British.  But,  oddly  enough, 
I  am  not  particularly  good  in  Irish  roles, 
in  spite  of  the  fact  that  I  am  the  daughter 
of  a  Patrick  Kelly!" 

Cathleen  thinks  she  is  very  lucky  to 
have  worked  with  many  different  direc- 
tors, each  of  whom  "saw"  her  in  a  different 
sort  of  part.  A  few  still  think  of  her  only 
as  an  "English  actress."  Actually,  she  can 
talk  as  American  as  anyone  when  she 
tries,  forgetting  the  years  she  spent  in 
England.  "After  all,  I  was  born  in  Brook- 
lyn, and  I  am  an  American." 

Cathleen  sometimes  thinks  she  might 
have  gone  further  in  the  theater  if  she 
had  not  fitted  into  radio  with  such  ease. 
And,  considering  her  English  successes, 
she  probably  would  have.  But  now  she 
loves  her  life  in  radio,  the  regularity  of 
her  day's  schedule,  the  time  it  gives  her 
for  a  full  and  satisfying  social  life,  and 
the  way  she  can  arrange  her  time  for  all 
the  things  she  wants  to  do.  ITiere  was  a 
period,  however,  when  she  grew^  very 
tired  of  being  cast  always  as  the  "other 
woman,"  and  it  has  been  a  real  joy  to  find 
a    sympathetic    role    in    Second    HtLshand. 

"In  England  my  parts  were  usually 
sympathetic,  but  here  I  have  been  rather 
dreadful,"  she  says.  "Now,  at  last,  I  am  a 
loving  wife  and  a  mother  who  is  trying 
very  hard  to  do  her  very  best  for  her 
children.  It's  fxm  to  be  with  the  children 
who  play  my  two  yoiingsters,  and  a  privi- 
lege to  play  opposite  an  actor  of  the 
statirre  of  Richard  Waring,  who  has  the 
role  of  my  husband,  Wajme  Lockwood. 
We  have  a  fine  cast,  and  everyone  con- 
nected with  the  show  is  wonderful." 

For  a  bachelor  glamour  girl,  this  is  a 
challenging  role,  and  Cathleen  CordeU 
pours  into  it  all  the  vividness  of  her  own 
personality  and  her  fine  theatrical  back- 
ground .  .  .  the  vividness  that  makes 
Diane  Lockwood  an  exciting  woman  as 
she  daily  struggles  with  the  problems  of 
being  a  good  mother  and  a  good  wife  to 
a  Second  H-'ifi^and. 


^i■.v-s■u1.n.w^VAv.%sv.■-s%•■v■■.v-■-■-■uv.■■s■.■-v■■-■.■■"J".■.■-"■WA■--.■ 

I  HERE'S  YOUR 
COOK  BOOK 


■i 


!>.%■ 


The  Most  Unusual 
Cook  Book 
Published! 


Here — at  last — is  your  dream  cook  book 
.  .  .  the  cook  book  that  has  everything 
.  .  .  the  cook  book  that  tops  them  all! 

Exciting  Recipes  From 
Revolutionary  Days  to  Today 

There's  a  story  behind  this  cook  book 
— and  a  fascinating  story  it  is,  too.  The 
recipes  in  this  cook  book  are  all  proven 
recipes.  So,  what  is  so  unusual  about  that 
you  ask?  Well,  most  cook  book  recipes 
are  tested  by  college-trained  dietitians  in 
scientific  kitchens.  These  recipes  were, 
too,  but  they  first  were  tested  in  the  din- 
ing rooms  of  actual  homes  throughout 
the  country.  These  recipes  are  the  time- 
tested  favorites  of  True  Siory  readers 
from  coast  to  coast.  These  are  their  fa- 
vorite recipes — the  recipes  handed  down 
from  mother  to  daughter — from  revolu- 
tionary days  right  up  to  the  present  day. 

The  Magic  Cook  Book  is  your  cook 
book.  It  contains  the  very  best — the  most 
unusual — and  the  most  highly  prized 
recipes  ever  put  into  book  form. 

Here  you'll  discover  Mrs.  Bailey's  Soda 
Biscuits  that  are  the  fluffiest  and  flakiest 
biscuits  you  ever  tasted  and  they  just 
melt  in  your  mouth.  And  for  the  dreami- 
est main  dish,  you  have  just  got  to  try 
Mrs.  Lazaroff's  Veal  Parmigiana — your 
men  folk  will  just  rave  over  it.  Then, 
there  is  Mrs.  Hooker's  Macaroni  Loaf 
with  Cheese  Sauce — this  succulent  dish 
just  oozes  with  zest — the  only  trouble 
with  it  is  that  you  wiU  never  make 
enough  to  satisfy  your  family  or  your 
guests!!  For  a  dessert  that  will  make 
them  stand  up  and  cheer — try  Mrs.  Lock- 
hart's  special  recipe  for  Pecan  Pie.  It's 
the  most  heavenly  dish  to  top  off  a  meal 
— and  you  will  be  rated  the  Queen  of 
Hearts  for  serving  it — time  after  time 
after  time. 

Your  Cooking  Will  Be 
The  Talk  of  the  Town 

Space  here  is  too  limited  to  tell  you  of  the 
hundreds  of  special  prize  recipes  this  un- 
usual cook  book  contains.  Each  dish  seems 
more  exciting  than  the  next.  With  this  book 
at  hand  meal  planning  is  an  exciting  ad- 
venture— not  a  chore.  Your  neighbors  and 
friends  will  want  copies  of  all  the  yummy 
dishes  you  serve.  Your  cooking  will  be  the 
talk  of  the  town! 

Here  is  where  your  cook  book  will  pay  for 
itself  over,  and  over  again.  You  may  be 
overpaying  for  your  meat  and  not  know  it. 
For  certain  dishes  you  get  better  tenderness 
and  more  flavor  by  purchasing  the  lower 
grade  of  meat — and   you  save   money  be- 


sides!  Few  people  know  this  and,  of  course, 
your  butcher  won't  tell!! 

It's  Complete 

The  Magic  Cook  Book  is  more  than  a  col- 
lection of  exciting  recipes.  It  is  a  complete 
storehouse  of  cooking  information.  Here 
you  will  find  in  simple,  easy-to-understand 
language,  important  facts  on  nutrition  .  .  . 
special  sickroom  diets  .  .  .  everyday  menus, 
as  well  as  menus  for  holidays  and  important 
occasions  .  .  .  suggestions  on  cooking  for 
two  .  .  .  lunch-box  hints  for  children  and 
workers  .  .  .  new  ways  to  use  package  mixes 
.  .  .  canning  and  preserving  instructions 
.  .  .  rules  for  table  setting  and  service.  Also 
many  useful  charts  and  tables  that  you  will 
find  of  tremendous  value. 

Use  It  at  Our  Risk 

The  price  of  this  giant  book, 
which  is  beautifully  bound 
iri  washable  fabrikoid,  is  only 
$1.98 — and  we  pay  the  post- 
age. Order  your  copy  of  this 
unusual  cook  book  on  oiu- 
money  -  back  -  if  -not  -  satisfied 
plan.  You  cannot  lose — order 
copies  of  this  wonderful  book 
for  yourself — and  as  gifts  for 
your  friends  —  Today.  Our 
supply  is  limited. 

■■■  —  MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAV-I 

Readers'  Service  Bureau  ! 

TRUE   STORY.   Dept.   RM-755  ! 

205  E.  42nd  St..  New  York  17,   N.  Y.  J 

Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  the  MAGIC  ! 
COOK  BOOK.  I  enclose  $1.98.  \ 

I 
Name I 

Please  Print  ■  T 

!     V 

I  R 


Address. 


City State. 


71 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Daylight  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Mor 

8:30 
8:45 

ning  Pro^rai 

MS 

Local  Program 

8:55  It  Happens 
Every  Dayf 

John  MacVane 
8:55  Betty  Crockert 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 
News,  Cecil  Brown 

Breakfast  Club 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

10:4!= 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peale 
Joyce  Jordan,  M.D. 
Doctor's  Wife 

Breali  Tlie  Bank 

Cecil  Brown 

Guest  Time 
News 

10:35  Johnny 
Olsen  Show 

My  True  Story 

10:25  Whispering 
Streets 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:00 

11:15 

11:30 
11:45 

Strike  It  Rich 

Phrase  That  Pays 
Second  Chance 

Florida  Calling  With 
Tom  Moore 

11:25  Holland  Engle 
Queen  For  A  Day 

tM-W-F 

Companion— 
Dr.  Mace 
Paging  The  New 

Albert  Warner,  News 
Your  Neighbor's 
Voice 

Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 
Second  Husband 

Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

Pauline  Frederick 

Noon  News 

Valentino 

Wendy  Warren  & 

Reporting 

12:05  Down  At 

The  News 

12:15 

Holmesy's 

Frank  Farrell 

Rosemary 

12:30 

Helen  Trent 

12:45 

Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 

News,  Cedric  Foster 

Paul  Harvey,   News 

Road  Of  Life 

1:15 

Luncheon  At  Sardi's 

Ted  Malone 

Ma  Perkins 

1:30 

Ted  Steele  Show 

Young  Dr.  Malone 

1:45 

The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 

Luncheon  With 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 

2:15 

Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 

Hayes 
Wonderful  City 

Perry  Mason 

2:30 

Betty  Crockert 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 

2:45 

2:35   Martin   Block 

The  Brighter  Day 

3:00 

News 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Martin   Block   (con.) 

Hilltop  House 

3:15 

3:05  Woman  In  Love 

Art  Linkletter's 

3:30 

Pepper   Young 

House  Party 

3:45 

Right  To  Happiness 

4:00 

Backstage  Wife 

Bruce  &  Dan 

Latin  Quarter 

4:15 

Stella  Dallas 

Matinee 
4:25  Betty  Crockert 

4:30 

Young  Widder  Brown 

Tex  Fletcher's 

Treasury  Bandstand 

Treasury    Bandstand 

4:45 

Woman  In  My  House 

Wagon  Show 

4:55  News 

5:00 

Just  Plain  Bill 

Bobby  Benson- 
(Sgt.  Preston)' 

Musical  Express 

News 

5:05  John  Faulk 

5:15 

Lorenzo  Jones 

Bobby  Benson 

Bobby  Hammack 

5:30 

Hots!  For  Pets 

Gloria  Parker 

5:45 

It  Pays  To  Be 
Married 

America's  Business 
5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 
'T-Th  m-f 
W-Adventures   Of 
Long  John  Silver 

Vincent  Lopez 
tM-W-F 

5:55  This  1  Believe 

6:00 
6:15 

6:30 
6:45 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Monday 


Sports  Daily  with 
Mel   Allen,   Russ 
Hodges 

Three  Star  Extra 


Evening  Programs 


Alex  Dreier,  Man 

On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One   Man's   Family 


Henry  J.  Taylor 
Best  Of  All 


Telephone  Hour 


Band  Of  America 


Fibber  McGee  fc 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Wings  For  Tomorrow 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel   Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Top  Secret  Files 
Broadway  Cop 


News,  Lyie  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Reporters'  Roundup 


Maxie  Whitney  Orch. 


Distinguished  Artists 


ABC  Reporter 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,    News 
Quincy  Howe 
The  Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith, 
News 


Jack  Gregson  Show 

American  Music  Hall 
Voice  Of  Firestone 


Music  Tent 


9:25  News 
Disaster— Red 
Cross  Show 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Martha  Lou  Harp 


Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 


Lowell  Thomas 


Joe  Foss,  Sports 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer 
Of  Lost  Persons 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 


Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hail 
9:55  News 


Music  Room 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Tuesday 


NBC 

Sports  Dally 
Three  Star  Extra 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 

6:45 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Biographies    in 
Sound 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Listen  To 

Washington 


Evening 

MBS 
Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel   Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Army  Hour 


Musical  Almanac 


Dance  Music 


Programs 

ABC 
ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

7:55  Les  Griffith 


Joe  Foss,  Sports 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Jack  Gregson  Show 
8:25  News 

3:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye 
9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 
News 

Platterbrains 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Take  Thirty 


CBS 
Jackson  fc  The  News 

Lowell  Thomas 


Suspense 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Rosemary  Clooney 
Bing  Crosby 


Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


Joe  Foss,  Sports 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Wednesday 


Evening    Programs 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 


8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 

News 

8:35  College  Quiz 
Bowl 


You  Bet  Your  Life 

News 

9:35  Truth  Or 
Consequences 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Keys  To  The  Capital 


Thursday 


Local  Program 


Fulton   Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner   Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Les  Paul,  Mary  Ford 


True  Detective 
Sentenced 


News,  LyIe  Van 
Spotlight  Story 
CBC  Symphony 


CBC  Symphony  (con.) 


Sounding  Board 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 
8:25  News 


8:55  News 


Sammv  Kaye 
9:25  News 
President's  News 
Conference 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Joe  Foss,  Sports 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


FBI  In  Peace  And 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 

Fred  Robbins 


Evening    Programs 


6:001 

6:15  Sports  Daily 

6:30 

6:45  Three  Star  Extra 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Roy  Rogers 
Dr.  Six  Gun 


News 

9:05  Barrie  Craig 


Penitentiary 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Great    Gildersleeve 
Jane  Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Sports  Daily 
Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis, 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Jr. 


Official  Detective 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
State  Or  The  Nation 


Musical  Caravan 


Henry  Jerome  Orch. 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Saga 

7:55   Les   Griffith 


Jack   Gregson  Show 


8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye 


9:25  News 
Rhythm  &  Blues 
On  Parade 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Front  &  Center 


Joe  Foss,  Sports 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


The  Whistler 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Evening    Programs 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dinah  Shore 
Frank  Sinatra 
National   Radio 
Fan  Club 


Radio  Fan  Club 
(con.) 


Boxing— Cavalcade 
Of  Sports 

Sports  Highlights 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Men's  Corner 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Les  Paul,  Mary  Ford 


Counter-Spy 
Take  A  Number 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Heartbeat   Of 

Industry 


Family  Theater 


London  Studios 
Melodies 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Lone  Ranger 
7:55  Les  Griffith 


Jack  Gregson  Show 
8:25  News 

8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye 
Notes  &  Notations 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Indoors  Unlimited 


Joe  Foss,  Sports 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Godfrey  Digest 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Joe  Foss,  Sports 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Joe  Foss,  Sports 
10:05  White  House 
Report 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Rosemary  Clooney 
Bing  Crosby 


Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


Joe  Foss,  Sports 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell   Thomas 


Bing  Crosby 

Afflos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning  Progra 

8:30  Monitor 
S:45 

Local  Program 

Doug  Browning 
Show 

News 

9:00  News 

9:15  9:05  Monitor 

9:30 
9:45 

News 

No  School 
Today 

News  Of  America 
Farm  News 

Garden  Gate 

10:00  News 

10:05  Monitor 
10:15; 
10:30 
10:45 

American  Travel 
Guide 

No  School 
Today  (con.) 

Breakfast  Club 
Review 

News 

10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

10:55  News 

11.00  News 

11:05  Monitor 
11:15 
11:30  ; 
11:45  1 

Lucky  Pierre 

Johnny  Desmond 

Show 
11:55  Young  Living 

11:05  Half-Pint 
Panel 

All  League  Club- 
house 

Robert  0.  Lewis 
Show 

Afternoon  Programjs 


12:00 
12:15 

12:30 
12:45 

News 

12:05  Monitor 

1  Asked  You 

Tex  Fletcher 
Wagon  Show 

News 

12:05  101  Ranch 

Boys 
American  Farmer 

Noon  News 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

News                         Fifth  Army  Band 
1:05  Monitor 

Ruby  Mercer 

News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

Vincent  Lopez 

1 :55  News 

City  Hospital 
1:25  News,  Jackson 
Stan  Daugherty 
Presents 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

News                         Ruby  Mercer  (con.) 
2:05  Monitor              2:25  News 

Sports  Parade 

News 

2:05  Festival,  with 
Milton  Cross 

Dance  Orchestra 
Teddy  Wilson  Orch. 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

News 

3:05  Monitor 

Country  Jamboree 

News 

3:05  Festival  (con.) 

String  Serenade 
Skinnay  Ennis  Orch. 

4:00 

4:15 
4:30 

News 

4:05  Monitor 

Bandstand,  U.S.A. 

News 

4:05  Pop  Concert 
Horse  Racing 
Band  Concert 
Promenade 

Dance  Orchestra 

5:00 

5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

News 

5:05  Monitor 

Teenagers  Unlimited 
5:55  News 

News 

5:05  Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 

Adventures  In 

Science 
Richard  Hayes 
News,  Jackson 
5:35  Saturday  At 

The  Chase 

Evening  Programs 


6:00 

News 

6:05  Monitor 

John  T.  Flynn 

News 

6:05  Pan-American 
Union 

News 

6:15 

World  Traveler 

Sports,  Bob  Finnegan 

Sports  Review 

6:30 

Report  From 
Washington 

Bob  Edge,  Sports 
Afield 

Capitol  Cloakroom 

6:45 

Basil  Heatter 

6:55  Joe  Foss, 
Sports 

7:00 

News 

Pop  The  Question 

News 

News,  Jackson 

7:05  Monitor 

7:05  At  Ease 

7:05  Make  Way  For 

7:15 

Youth 

7:30 

Have  A  Heart 

Labor-Manage- 

Gangbusters 

7:45 

ment  Series 

8:00 

News 

True  Or  False 

News 

Gunsmoke 

8:15 

8:05  Monitor 

8:05  Dance  Party 

8:30 

Quaker  City  Capers 

Disk  Derby, 

8:45 

Fred  Robbins 

9:00 

News 

Hawaii  Calls 

News 

Two  For  The  Money 

9:15 

9:05  Monitor 

9:05  Dance  Party 

9:30 

Lombardo  Land 

(con.) 

Country  Style 

9:45 

9:55  News,  Jackson 

10:00 

News 

Chicago  Theater  Of 

News 

Country  Style  (con.) 

10:05  Monitor 

The  Air 

10:05  Ozark 

10:15 

Jubilee 

10:30 

Ambassador  Hotel 

Dance  Orchestra 

Sunday 


NBC 


MBS 


Morning  Programs 

8:30  Monitor 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 


9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 


10:30 
10:45 


11:00 
11:15 
11:30 
11:45 


News 

9:05  Monitor 


News 

10:05  Monitor 


News 

11:05  Monitor 


Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 


News 

9:05  Milton  Cross 

Album 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Frank  And  Ernest 

Christian  Science 

Monitor 
Northwestern 

Reviewing  Stand 


ABC 


Light  And  Life  Hour 


CBS 


Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 


World  News  Roundup 
Sidney  Walton  Show 

Organ  Music, 

E.  Power  Biggs 
9:55  News,  Trout 


News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 


Sunday  Melodies 
11:05  Marines  On 
Review 

News 

11:35  Christian  In 
Action 


Church  Of  The  Air 


Church  Of  The  Air 
(con.) 


Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 


Invitation  To 
Learning 


Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 

12:45 

News 

12:05  Monitor 

Marine  Band 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 
Merry  Mailman 

The  World  Tomorrow 

News,  LeSueur 
12:05  The  Leading 
Question 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

News 

1:05  Monitor 

Global  Frontiers 
Christian  Science 
Lutheran  Hour 

Herald  Of  Truth 

News 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

Wooiworth  Hour- 
Percy   Faith, 
Macdonald  Carey 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

News 

2:05  Monitor 

Music  From  Britain 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 

Symphonette 

World  Music 
Festival 

3:00 

3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

News 

3:05  Monitor 

Music  From  Britain 

(con.) 
Bandstand,  U.S.A 

Basil  Heatter 

News 

3:05  Air  Force  Show 

Hour  Of  Decision 

World  Music 
Festival  (con.) 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

News 

4:05  Monitor 

Salute  To  The  Nation 

Nick  Carter 

4:55  Lome  Greene 

Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 

News,  Trout 
4:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

News 

5:05  Monitor 

Adventures  Of  Rin 

Tin  Tin 
The  Masqueraders 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

News 

News,  Trout 
5:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon  (con.) 
5:55  News,  Trout 

Eve 

6:00 

6.15 
8:30 
6:45 

ning   Prograi 

News 

6:05  Monitor 

US 

Public  Prosecutor- 
Jay  Jostyn 

On  The  Line,  Bob 
Considine 

All  Star  Sport  Time 

Monday  Morning 

Headlines 
Paul  Harvey.  News 
Evening  Comes 

Gene  Autry 
Sunday  Playhouse 

7:00 

7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

News 

7:05  Monitor 

Richard  Hayes  Show 
Studio  Concert 

News 

7:05  Showtime 

Revue 
George  Sokolsky 
Valentino 
Travel  Talk 

Juke  Box  Jury 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

News 

8:05  Monitor 

West  Point  Band 
Enchanted  Hour 

American  Town 
Meeting 

Gary  Crosby 

My  Little  Margie 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

News 

9:05  Monitor 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr 
Success  Story 
Manion  Forum 
Keep  Healthy 

Walter  Winchell 
News,  Quincy  Howe 
Sammy  Kaye 

9:55  News 

Rudy  Vailee  Show 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

News 

10:05  Monitor 

Billy  Graham 
Little  Symphonies 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

Elmer  Davis 
Revival  Time 

News,  Schorr 
10:05  Face  The  Na- 
tion 
John  Derr,  Sports 

See  Next  Page- 


T 
V 
R 

73 


TV  program  highlights 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  JUNE  8— JULY  7 


Baseball  on  TV 


T 
V 
R 

74 


DATE 

TIME 

CH. 

JUNE 

8,  'W'. 

1:30 

11 

8:00 

9 

9,  Th. 

1:30 

9 

1:30 

11 

10,  F. 

8:00 

9 

8:00 

11 

11,  Sat. 

1:55 

2 

2:00 

9& 

2:00 

11 

12,  Sun. 

2:00 

9& 

2:00 

11 

14,  Tu. 

8:15 

11 

9:00 

9 

15,  W. 

2:00 

11 

9:00 

9 

16,  Th. 

2:00 

11 

9:00 

9 

17,  F. 

8:15 

11 

18,  Sat. 

1:55 

2 

2:00 

11  & 

9:00 

9 

19,  Sun. 

2:00 

11  & 

21,  Tu. 

2:30 

9 

8:15 

11 

-R 


GAME 

Mil.  VS.  Giants 
Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 
Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 
Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
Yanks  vs.  Cleve.- 
Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
Chi.  vs.  Dodgers — D 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
Det.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Cine. — R 
Det.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Cine. — R 
Det.  vs.  Yanks 
Det.  vs.  Cine. — R 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
Cleve.  vs.  Boston 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  St.  L. — R 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks — D 
Dodgers  vs.  Chi. — R 
Kan.  C.  vs.  Yanks 


D — Doubleheader 


TIME        CH. 


22,  W. 

2:00 

11 

23,  Th. 

2:00 

11 

24,  F. 

8:15 

11 

25,  Sat. 

1:55 

2 

2:00 

11  & 

26,  Sun. 

2:00 

11  & 

28,  Tu. 

2:00 

11 

8:00 

9 

29,  W. 

2:00 

11 

8:00 

9 

30,  Th. 

1:30 

9 

JULY 

1,F. 

2:00 

11 

8:00 

9 

2,  Sat. 

1:55 

2 

2:00 

9& 

8:15 

11 

3,  Sun. 

2:00 

9 

2:00 

11  & 

4,M. 

1:30 

11 

5,Tu. 

8:00 

9 

6,W. 

8:00 

11 

7,Th. 

1:30 

11 

8,F. 

8:00 

11 

R — Road  same 


Kan.  C.  vs.  Yanks 
Kan.  C.  vs.  Yanks 
Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 
Chi.  vs.  Boston 
Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 
Cleve.  vs.  Yanks — D 
Bait.  vs.  Yanks 
Giants  vs.  Dodgers 
Bait.  vs.  Yanks 
Giants  vs.  Dodgers 
Giants  vs.  Dodgers 


Wash.  vs.  Yanks 
Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 
Giants  vs.  Phila. — R 
Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 
Wash.  vs.  Yanks 
Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers — D 
Wash.  vs.  Yanks 
Bos.  vs.  Yanks — D 
Dodgers  vs.  Phila. — R 
Phila.  vs.  Giants 
Phila.  vs.  Giants 
Dodgers  vs.  Giants 


Monday  through  Friday 


7:00  0  Morning  Show— Jack's  up  to  Poor 

O  &  [s]  Today— Getaway  with  Garroway 

9:00  0  George  Skinner— AM  Variety 

10:00  0  Garry  Moore  Show— Garry's  great! 

O  &  [s]  Ding  Dong  School- TV  nursery 

10:30  0  Arthur  Godfrey  Time— He  talks  good 

O  &  [s]  Way  Of  The  World-Drama 
11:00  O  Home — Arlene    Francis,   homemaker 

Q  Romper  Room— Keeps  the  kids  quiet 
11:30  0  &\s]  Strike   It   Rich-Warren   Hull 
©  Wendy  Barrie— She'll   delight  you 
12:00  0  Valiant   Lady— Day   drama 

O  &  d]  Tennessee   Ernie— Music  &  fun 
12:15   0  &  [s]  Love  Of  Life-Story  of  a  widow 
12:30  0  &[1]  Search  For  Tomorrow— Serial 
O  Feather   Your   Nest— Bud    Collyer 
0  Entertainment— Midday    open    house 
12:45  0  (&  0  at  2:30)-The  Guiding  Light 
1:00  0  Inner  Flame— Portia  faces  life 

O  Norman    Brokenshire    Show— Fun! 
©  Claire  Mann— For  beauty  &  health 
1:15  0  Road   Of  Life-Serial 
1:30  0  &[§]  Welcome  Travelers— Fr^.i  Chi. 
O  Here's  Looking  At  You— Beauty  tips 
2:00  0  &  m  Robert  Q.  Lewis— Lives  it  up 
2:30  0  Linkletter's  House  Party— Tres  gai! 
3:00  0  &  [s]  The   Big   Payoff- h4ice   prizes 
O  Ted  Mack's  Matinee— Homey 
O  Ted  Steele— Music  and  relaxed  talk 
3:30  0  Bob    Crosby    Show— Joint's    jumpin' 

O  &  [i]  Greatest   Gift— Fern   medic 
3:45  Q  &{&]  Concerning     Miss     Marlowe 
4:00  0  Brighter   Day— Daytime  drama 

O  &  [ll  Hawkins    Falls-Serial 
4:15  0  &  [s]  Secret  Storm— Serial 

O  First  Love— Story   of   newly-weds 
4:30  0  &  d]  On   Your  Account— $$$  quiz 

O  Mr.  Sweeney— Ruggles  with  chuckles 
EARLY   EVENING 
7:00  O  Kukia,  Fran   &   OIlie— Whimsey 
7:30  0  News— The   day   reviewed 

O  Songs— Tony  Martin,  Mon.;  Dinah 
Shore,  Tues.,  Thurs.;  Eddie  Fisher,  Wed.,  Fri. 
O  Million  Dollar  Movies— June  7-13, 
"So  Young,  So  Bad";  June  14-20,  "One  Big 
Affair";  June  21-27,  "Syncopation";  June 
28-July  4,  "Happiest  Days  of  Your  Life"; 
July  5-11,  "Lucky  Nick  Cain." 
7:45  0  Songs— Como,    Stafford,    Froman:    Be- 


ginning June  27,  Julius  LaRosa  every  night 
LATE   NIGHT 

10:00  O  Million  Dollar  Movies— Same  sched- 
ule  as  shown  at  7:30   P.M. 

11:00  (D  Liberace— Concerts   by  candlelight 

11:15  O  Tonight— Steve  Allen 

12:00  O  Moonlight   Movie— Rain   or   shine 


Monday  P.M. 


7:30  ©  Life    With    Elizabeth— Betty   White 

0  Name's  The  Same— Bob  &  Ray 
8:00  0  Burns  &  Allen— Gracie  grills  George 

O  &  S  Caesar's  Hour— Sid  stars 
8:30  0  Talent  Scouts- Godfrey's  showcase 

0  Voice  Of  Firestone— Long-hair  recital 
9:00  0  &  {¥{  I  Love  Lucy— An  absolute  Ball 

O  &  [i]  The    Medic- Documentaries 
9:30  0  &  Ul  Ethel  &  Albert— Comedy  begins 
June  20. 

O  Robert  Montgomery   Presents 
10:00  0  &  [T|  Studio    One— Full-hour    dramas 

0  Eddie  Cantor— Filmed  variety  show 
10:30  O  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  as  Steve 


Tuesday 


7:00  O  Science  Fiction   Theater— Weird 
8:00  0  Life  With  Father— Leon  Ames  stars 
8:30  0  Halls  Of   Ivy— The   Ronald   Colmans 

0  Who  Said   That?— John   Daly,  emcee 
9:00  0  &  [U  Meet  Millie— Sassy,  saucy  Elena 
O  Fireside  Theater— Telefilms 
0  Make    Room    For    Daddy— Comedy 
9:30  0  &  [s]  Red  Skelton  Show— Laughs 

O  Circle  Theater— Drama,  live  &  lively 
10:00  0  $64,000  Question— $$$$$  quiz 

©  &  [s]  Truth  Or  Consequences 
10:30  0  See  it  Now— Ed  Murrow's  video  mag 
It's  A  Great  Life— Eddie  Dunn 
Stop  The  Music— Bert  Porks  with   $$ 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  Disneyland— Fascinating  fun 

8:00  0  &  [s]  Godfrey  &   Friends— Variety 
©  What's  The  Story— News  panel-quiz 
O  Request   Performance— Dramas 

8:30  O  (&  [Kl  ot   9:30)   My   Little   Margie 
O  Mr.   Citizen— Stories   of   heroism 

9:00  0  &  d]  The   Millionaire— $tories 


O  Kraft  Theater— Full-hour  teleplays 
©  Impact— Hour-long  tales  of  tension 
0  Masquerade  Party— Costume  quiz 
9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret— Moore  fun 

O  Penny  To  A  Million— $10,000   quiz 

10:00  O  This  is  Your  Life— Exciting  bios 
0  Blue  Ribbon  Boxing 

10:30  O  Doug    Fairbanks    Presents— Stories 


Thursday 


7:00  O  Guy   Lombardo— Heavenly   music 

7:30  0  Lone  Ranger— Bang,  bong 

8:00  0  Meet  Mr.  McNulty-Merry  Milland 

G  *  S   You    Bet   Your   Life-Groucho 
8:30  0  Climax!— Hard-hitting    drama 

O  Justice— Gary    Merrill    stars 
9:00  O  &  (H  Dragnet— Webb  at  work 

0  Star   Tonight— Original    teleplays 
9:30  0  Four  Star  Playhouse— Telefilms 

O  &  [l]  Ford  Theater— Good  viewing 

0  Pond's  Theater— Live  plays 
10:00  0  Public  Defender— Reed  Hodley  night 

O  &  [U  Lux  Video  Theater-Full  hour 
10:30  0  Willy— Comedy  Havoc  with  June 

0  Racket  Squad— Reed  Hadley's  encore 


Friday 


7:30  ©  Life  With  Elizabeth— A  cute  beaut 

8:00  0  &[|]  Mama— Ingratiating 

©  Secret   Files,  U.S.A.— Adventures 
O  Ozzie  &  Harriet— Zestful 

8:30  0  Topper— Hocus-pocus    comedy 

O  &  [1  Life  Of  Riley-Beguiling  Bill 
O  Ray  Bolger  Show— A  happy  show 

9:00  0  Playhouse  Of  Stars— Filmed  dramas 
O  &  @  Big  Story— Real   reporters 
©  Mr.  &  Mrs.   North-Whodunits 

9:30  0  Our  Miss  Brooks— Eve  Arden  stars 
O  &  [T]    Dear   Phoebe— Peter   Lawford 
0  The    Vise— High-tension    English    films 
10:00  0  The    Line-Up— City    detectives    detect 

©  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
10:30  0  Person    To    Person— Murrow's    visits 
©  Down  You  Go— First-rate  panel  quiz 
0  Mr.  District  Attorney— David   Brian 


Saturday 


7:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Stunts  for  prizes 

©  Show  Wagon— Heidt's  talent  salute 
8:00  0  Jackie  Gleason— Gleeful  comedy 

O  &  m  Mickey  Rooney— Comedy  series 
8:30  0  Dotty  Mack  Show— Musicmimics 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— Quiz,  $hrlner 

Q  &  ![|]  imogene  Coca— Impish 
9:30  0  My  Favorite  Husband— Very  merry 

0  Ozark  Jubilee— Red  Foley's  variety 
10:00  O  &  m  George  Gobel— Clown  Prince 
10:30  0  Damon  Runyon  Theater— Stories 

O  &  [H  Your  Hit  Parade— Hit  skits 


Sunday 


6:00  0  I  Love  Lucy— Repeat  of  1951   shows 
6:30  0  My  Hero— Bob  Cummings  in  comedy 
7:00  O  &  m  People  Are  Funny— Linkletter 
0  You  Asked  For  It— Art  Baker,  emcee 
8:00  0  &  [U  Toast  Of  The  Town— Variety 

O  Colgate's    New   Variety— Full    hour 
9:00  0  G-E  Theater— Ronald  Reagan,  host 
O  &  [T]  TV  Playhouse- Fine  teleplays 
9:30  0  Stage  7— Hollywood  stars  in  drama 
©  Life  Begins  At  Eighty— Panel  panic 
10:00  0  Appointment  With  Adventure 

O  &  H  Loretta  Young  Show— Stories 
O  Break  The  Bank— Bert  Parks,  quiz 
(D  Florian  ZaBach— Fiddle-faddle 
10:30  0  &JT]  What's  My  Line?— Job  game 
O  Bob  Cummings  Show— Farce 
O  Paris    Precinct- Cherchez    le    crime 


The  Name's  The  Same 

(Continued  from  page  39) 
with  the  proper  vitamins  for  animals, 
which  just  dropped  to  the  ground  when 
shot.)  All  of  1000  listeners,  however, 
wrote  in  requesting  the  "Handy  Home- 
Wrecking  Kit." 

Bob  Elliott  and  Ray  Goulding,  who  used 
to  feature  such  give-aways  on  their  net- 
work TV  show,  were  invariably  disap- 
pointed at  the  mail — not  that  it  was  so 
small,  but  that  anyone  wrote  in  at  all.  They 
have  no  objections  to  people  being  Uterate, 
of  course,  but  when  they're  so  literal  that 
they  actually  want  the  kits  as  advertised 
.  .  .  wow!  As  for  the  Smithsonian  Institu- 
tion— that  foiindation  for  the  increase  and 
diffusion  of  knowledge — it  sent  a  dignified 
letter  to  Bob  and  Ray  demanding  that, 
henceforth,  they  stop  giving  the  national 
museum  as  an  address  for  premiums. 

The  boys  stopped,  but  orders  continued 
pouring  in  at  a  new  address — this  time 
for  bargains  "at  laughably  low  prices" 
from  Bob  and  Ray's  "over-stocked  surplus 
warehouse."  The  hottest  item  turned  out 
to  be  the  sweaters  with  "O"  on  them.  "If 
your  name  doesn't  begin  with  'O,' "  the 
sales-pitch  ran,  "we  can  have  it  legally 
changed  for  you.  Sweaters  come  in  two 
styles — turtle-neck  or  V-neck.  State  what 
kind  of  neck  you  have." 

The  point,  of  course,  was  not  what  kind 
of  neck  you  have — but  what  kind  of  sense 
of  humor.  Apparently,  as  Ray  commented 
at  the  time:  "People  are  taking  life  pretty 
seriously  these  days,  I  guess." 

For  a  growing  cult,  however,  life  didn't 
really  get  serious  imtil  Bob  and  Ray  left 
the  air.  To  their  fans — as  well  as  to  most 
critics — this  apathetic,  dead-pan  pair  were 
the  funniest  combination  in  radio  and  TV. 
They  could  not  only  make  you  laugh  at 
them,  they  could  make  you  laugh  at  your- 
self. And  if  people  were  no  longer  able 
to  do  that — if  there  were  suddenly  no  room 
for  these  two  in  network  progrsimming— 
then  we  were  truly  lost,  and  something 
clean  and  sweet  and  refreshingly  tonic 
had  vanished  from  the  national  scene. 

Last  April  11,  however,  the  world  could 
breathe  easier.  CivUization  was  saved!  Bob 
and  Ray  returned  to  network  TV — their 
first  important  show  in  three  years — as 
dual  moderators  of  ABC-TV's  popular 
panel  show.  The  Name's  The  Same. 

While  their  own  nanies  are  not  the  same 
— and  they  certainly  don't  look  alike — 
there  is  confusion,  nonetheless,  about 
which  is  Bob  and  which  is  Ray.  The  rea- 
son may  well  be  that  they  act  alike.  Each 
has  the  same  bland  stage  personality — even 
to  the  straight-faced  style  of  delivery,  and 
the  professional  wit's  horror  of  ever  being 
caught  laughing  at  his  own  jokes.  Although 
they  have  burlesqued  an  amazing  variety 
of  characters  in  their  radio  and  TV  shows, 
either  could  take  over  the  other's  roles  or 
speak  his  lines.  For — vmlike  other  comedy 
teams,  where  one  plays  straight  and  the 
other  gets  the  laughs  by  insulting  him — 
Bob  and  Ray  both  play  the  cutup.  They 
are  as  one,  for  their  battle  is  not  with  each 
other — it's  with  all  the  stuffed  shirts  of  the 
world.  Like  the  Katzenjammer  Kids  .  .  . 
only,  which  is  Hans  and  which  is  Fritz? 

In  the  case  of  Bob  and  Ray,  the  surest 
way  to  tell  them  apart  is  to  look  for  the 
one  with  a  mustache.  That's  Ray.  He  is 
also  the  taller,  darker,  and  older  of  the 
two.  Bom  in  Lowell,  Massachusetts,  on 
March  20,  1922,  he  was  seventeen  when  he 
was  graduated  from  high  school  and  got  a 
job  as  an  announcer  at  a  local  radio  sta- 
tion. (Salary:  $15  a  week.)  A  year  or  so 
later,  he  visited  near-by  Boston  and  au- 
ditioned for  two  stations  there.  When  he 
returned  home,  two  telegrams  were  wait- 
ing. Both  stations  had  hired  him.  Ray  took 
the  job  at  WEEI  because  it  paid  five  dollars 


OPPORTUNITIES 


FOR  EVERYBODY 


Pubrisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


For  classWed  advertising  rales,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Sfreef,  Chicago  6  (Ju/y-Wom.)   5 


FEMALE   HELP  WANTED 

EXTRA  MONEY  EVERY  week.  I'll  send  you  full-size  Blair 
Household  products  on  Free  Trial.  Show  them  to  friends 
and  neighbors.  You  can  make  Big  Extra  Profits.  Write  Blair, 
Dept.  185NL,  Lynchburg,  Va. 

StWFORBIG  MONEYI  Women  18-60  wanted.  Earn  to  $100 
weekly.  Experience  unnecessary.  Free  placement  service. 
Factory  secrets,  methods.  Complete  information,  write  Gar- 
ment  Trades,  641 1-B  Hollywood  Blvd..  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 
BEAUTY  DEM  ONSTRATORS :  UP  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  Free 
samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  Dept.  P-74, 

Glendale.  Calif. 

MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 
display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept.  N-8359,  Cincinnati 

25,  Ohio.         

IMMEDIATE  OPENINGS.  WORK  at  home.  Part-time, 
full-time.  All  ages.  Write  Dept.  81.  Webster-Kerr,  120  Elm 

Street,  Orange,  N.  J. 

HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
pay.  Experience  unnecessary.  California  Handicrafts,  Holly- 

wood  46,  California. 

hOME  WORKERS  WANTED!  Self  employment  home  jobs 
listed.  $20  -  $50  weekly  possible.  No  experience  necessary. 

Maxwell,  Dept.  B-7,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY— Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B. 
Dunbar,  Dept.  G-7,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
WOMEN.  SEW  READY-Cut  Wrap-A-Round,  spare  time- 
profitable.  Dept.  D,  Hollywood  Mfg.  Co.,  Hollywood  46.  Calif. 
FASCINATING  PIECE  WORK  at  Homel  No  sellingl  We 

pay  youl  Truart,  Box  438,  Pasadena,  California. 

ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOME  sewing  Baby  Shoes,  Dresses  for 

established  markets.  Thompson's,  Loganville  2,  Wis. 

$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.    Easy.    Write,    Studio 

Company,  Greenville,  7,  Penna. 

PERSONAL 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men 
and  women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  endors- 
ers. Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details  free  in 
plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co.,  323  Se- 

curities  BIdg.,  Dept.  G-69,   Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Discoveryl  Free 
Trial  Offer.  Write  Pixacol,   Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

BUSINESS   OPPORTUNITIES 

WOMEN  I  SEW  READY-Cut  Neckties  at  Home.  No  experi- 
ence Necessary.  No  Selling.  No  Machine  Needed.  Details 
Free.  Neckwear  Supply,  P.O.  Box  2066-P,  Inglewood  4,  Calif. 
$70  WEEKLY— HOME,  spare  time.  Simplified  mail  Book- 
keeping.  Immediate  mcome — easy!  Auditax,  34757CP, 
Los  Angeles  34.  California. 

EARN  $25 -$75  WEEKLY  Mailing  Circulars.  Complete 
details— 25c.  Siwaslian,  4317-F  Gleane.  Elmhurst  73,  N.Y. 
$200   WEEKLY   CLEANING    Venetian    Blinds.    Free   book. 

Burtt.  2434BR,  Wichita  13,  Kansas. 

EDUCATIONAL   OPPORTUNITIES 

DENTAL  NURSING,  PREPARE  at  home  for  big  pay  career. 
Chairside  duties,  reception,  laboratory.  Personality  Develop- 
ment. Free  Book.  Wayne  School.  Lab:  BA-14,  2521  N.  Shef- 
field.  Chicago  14.  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W 
Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished  No  classes.  Di- 
ploma.   Information    booklet  free.   American   School,    Dept. 

XB74,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

SALESWOMEN   WANTED 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics — nylon,  ciacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality. 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free.  Hoover, 

Dept.  R-119,  New  York  11,  N.Y. 

DENTAL   PLATE   RENEWAL   &   REPAIR 

NEW  FALSE  DENTAL  Plate.  Guaranteed  Dupont  Plastic 
from  old.  $18.95.  Free  details.  All-State  Dental  Laboratories, 

22  West  Madison,  Dept.  650.  Chicago. 

HOME   STUDY   TRAINING 

PHYSICAL  THERAPY  PAYS  Big  Profits.  Learn  at  home. 
Free  Catalog.  National  Institute,  Desk  6,  159  East  Ontario, 
Chicago  11 


MONEY   MAKING   OPPORTUNITIES 

GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid  Babbitt  $4165.00  in  few 
weeks.  Free  Book.  Washington  Mushroom  Ind.,  Dept.  164, 

2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle,  Wash. , 

SELL -BUY  TITANIA  gem;  $9  75  carat  wholesale.  Mora 
brilliant  than  Diamonds.  Free  catalogue.  Diamonite,  1404-H, 

Oakland  1.  California. ^ 

60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  day  up.  Hire  others. 
Samples,  details.  Studio  Girl — Hollywood,  Glendale,  Calif. 

Dept.  P-75b. 

STUFFING  -  MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how.  Dept.  G-7,  Education  Publishers,  4043  St.  Clair,  Cleve- 
land 3,  Ohio. 

MAKE  YOUft  TVPEWRITEH  Earn  Money.  Send  $1.00. 
Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

GUARANTEED  PAY  HOMEWORKI  No  Selling.  Every- 
thing Furnished.  Genmerco,  Box  142P,  Boston  24,  Mass. 
EARN  MONEY  AT  Homel  Must  Have  good  Handwriting. 

Write  for  Details.  Atlas,  Box  188-A,  Melrose.  Mass. 

EARN  SPARETIME  CASH  at  home,  preparing  mailings  for 

advertisers.  Tem-Let,   Box  946.   Muncie  2,   Indiana. 

EARN   SPARE  TIME  cash  mailing  advertising   literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

SEND  OUT  POSTCARDS.  Cash  daily.  Write  Box  14,  Bel- 
mont, Massachusetts. 
OF  INTEREST  TO   WOMEN 

f200  for  your  child's  photo  (all  ages)  If  used  by  advertisers, 
end  one  small  photo  for  approval.  F'rint  child's  and  parent's 
name -address  on  back.  Returned  30  days.  No  obligation. 
Spotlite,  5880-GPW  Hollywood,  Hollywood  28,  California. 
MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog  (Plain  Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers;  $2.98  to  $22.98.  Crawford's, 

Dept.  28,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.  Crown    Industries,   7159-B 

Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  Mailing  Display  Folders. 
Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Allen  Company,  War- 

saw  1,  Indiana. 

FREE,    NEW    DIRECTORYI    314    Companies    looking  for 
people  to  work  at  home.  O.  Economy.  Rowley.  Mass. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons.  Ft.  Smith  3.  Arkansas. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-selling  che- 
nille monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva.  Bohemia  32.  N.Y. 
EARN   SPARE  TIME  cash  mailing  advertising  literature. 

Glenway.  5713  Euclid.  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

SEND  OUT  POSTCARDS.  Cash  daily.  Write  Box  14,  Bel- 
mont. Mass. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 

possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot.  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

OLD   COINS   &   MONEY  WANTED 

$40.00  CERTAIN  LINCOLN  Pennies.  Indianheads  $60.00. 
Others  $5.00  -  $3,000.00.  Complete  Catalogue  Everything  25c. 
Illustrated  Catalogue  50c.  With  Samples  Coin  Conditions 
$1.50.  Worthycoin  Corporation.  Boston  8.  Massachusetts. 
WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61 -DH,  Whitestone  57, 
New  York. 

MALE   &   FEMALE   HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-15,  Chi- 

cago  32,  Illinois. ^^^ 

HELP  WANTED 

FOREIGN  -  U.S.  JOB  Information  Directory.  So.  Pacific, 
Alaska,  Canada,  So.  America,  Europe,  Africa,  Spain.  Un- 
skilled -  Skilled  -  Office.  Contractors  names,  locations, 
addresses,  amounts  listed.  Stamped  self-addressed  envelope 
appreciated.  Job  Information,  (11E).  Waseca.  Minnesota. 

NURSING  SCHOOLS 

PRACTICAL  NURSING— LEARN  Easily  at  Home,  Spare 
Time.  Big  demand,  good  earnings.  High  School  not  necessary. 
Write  for  free  booklet.  Wayne  School,  Dept.  AW-20,  2525 

Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

ADDITIONAL  INCOME        

EARN  READY  CASH  doing  mailing  work.  No  experience 
needed — F.  Wilson  Business  Service,  2875  Glendale  Blvd., 
Los  Angeles  39,  California 


Thrilling  New  Massage  Cream 
Contains  PC-11.  Acts  Instantly  to 

DRY  UP  SKIN 
BLEMISHES 

From  Both  Oily  Skin  and 
External  Causes! 

Have  you  tried  in  vain  to  get  rid 
of  oily  pimples,  "hickies,"  other 
externally  caused  skin  blemishes  ? 
f  Well,  you  never  had  PC-11  be- 
fore! That's  POMPEIAN'S  name 
^  for  Hexachlorophene.  Wonder- 
ful discovery  of  science  helps  dry  up  such  skin 
blemishes!  Acts  instantly  to  clean  out  dirt,  helps 
remove  blackheads  like  magic!  Goes  on  face  pink — 
rolls  off  muddy  gray ! 

GENEROUS  TRIAL  TUBE— 10  CENTS! 
Send   name,  address    and    10  cents  to  POMPEIAN 
CORP.,  Dept.  p. 7,  Baltimore  24,  Md.  (Offer  good 
only  In  U.S.)  Or  get  Pompeian  Mas- 
sage Cream  at  any  drug  store. 


POMPEIAN 

MASSAGE    CREAM 


Why  be  blue 
when  you  can 

/ 


If  monthly  distress— pain, 
cramps,  nervous  tension 
and  lieadache  —  get  you 
down,  be  smart  and  try 


CHI-CHES-TERS 


If  you  don't  get  safe,  quick,  long-lasting  relief  we 
will  refund  your  money.  Fair  enough?  Get  Chi- 
Ches-Ters  and  compare  this  medically  proven,  pre- 
scription-like "wonder"  formula  with  any  other 
product  you  have  used.  In  doctors'  tests  9  out  of 
10  women  got  relief— often  with  the  first  dose.  Why 
not  you?  Feel  gay  every  day  with  Chi-Ches-Ters. 
Purse  Pak  50jS;  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and  $2.25. 
If  your  druggist  hasn't  any,  ask  him  to  get  some 
for  you— or  we  will  fill  direct  orders.  T 


FREE — Illustrated  booklet  of  intimate  facts 
every  woman  should  know.  Mailed  in  plain 
wrapper.  Write  today!  Chichester  Chemical 
Company,  Dept.    19-S,    Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 


V 
R 

75 


more  a  week.  By  1942,  when  he  left  to  en- 
ter the  Army,  he  was  already  a  veteran 
announcer. 

It  was  at  Fort  Knox,  Kentucky,  where 
he  was  instructing  in  the  Officers'  Candi- 
date School,  that  Ray  met  Liz — only  she 
was  Lieutenant  Mary  Elizabeth  Leader 
then,  a  dietitian.  "We  got  married  on  a 
three-day  pass,"  Ray  recalls,  "at  a  little 
spa  in  Indiana.  A  sweet  little  church 
around  the  corner — around  the  corner 
from  an  arsenal." 

A  year  later,  in  1946,  Ray  Goulding 
returned  to  Boston,  joined  Station  WHDH 
— and  met  Bob  Elliott. 

Bob  was  born  on  March  26,  1923,  in 
Winchester,  Massachusetts.  After  gradua- 
tion from  high  school  in  1940,  he  attended 
the  Feagin  School  of  Dramatic  Art  in  New 
York  City.  "I  thought  I  might  become  an 
actor,"  he  explains.  A  year  later,  at  eight- 
een, he  auditioned  at  Boston's  Station 
WHDH  and  got  a  job  as  staff  announcer. 
(Salary:  $18.50  a  week.)  la  1943,  he  joined 
the  Army,  serving  three  years  with  the 
26th  Infantry  Division. 

Ask  him  about  his  Army  career,  and 
Bob  reacts  like  a  war  prisoner  who's  only 
obliged  to  give  his  name,  rank  and  serial 
number.  "I  was  a  T/5  in  Regimental  Spe- 
cial Service,"  he  says. 

"Oh,  you  entertained  troops?"  you  say. 

"I  ran  movies,"  he  says. 

And  then  Ray,  who  understands  Bob's 
reticence  in  speaking  about  himself,  tries 
to  help.   "He  was  a  malingerer,"  he  says. 

You  have  to  consult  the  record  to  find 
out:  Bob  took  part  in  the  Battle  of  the 
Bulge. 

After  his  discharge  in  1946,  he  returned 
to  WHDH,  where  he  w^as  given  two  disc- 
jockey shows — one  in  the  morning,  one  in 
the  afternoon.  Ray  Goulding  was  as- 
signed to  do  the  newscasts  on  the  morning 
show.  After  completing  his  chores,  he  got 
in  the  habit  of  hanging  around  and  kidding 
with  Bob.  That's  how  it  began — casually, 
impromptu,  without  scripts  or  rehearsals, 
but  just  for  fun.  And  that's  how  it's  con- 
tinued ever  since. 

Soon,  their  off-hand  remarks  had  ex- 
panded into  ad-lib  sketches,  then  into  a 
daily  half-hour  show  ("just  before  the  ball 
game")  .  .  .  and,  finally — to  meet  audience 
demand — another  show  had  to  be  added  in 
the  morning.  After  five  years  of  this  in 
Boston,  word  of  the  new  comedy  team 
reached  New  York.  It  was  in  July,  1951, 
that  the  audiences  of  two  network  shows 


started  hearing:  "Bob  Elliott  and  Ray 
Goulding  take  pleasure  in  presenting  the 
National  Broadcasting  Company,  which 
presents  The  Bob  And  Ray  Show." 

Two  months  later,  they  were  given  the 
morning  show  on  NBC's  local  station  in 
New  York.  Then  two  more  network  shows 
were  added  to  an  already  impossible 
schedule.  But  even  Bob  and  Ray  can  no 
longer  remember  all  the  shows  they  ap- 
peared on  for  NBC — both  local  and  net- 
work, radio  and  TV — until  the  spring  of 
1953.  Many  of  these  shows  were  on  daily — 
five  to  six  times  a  week — so  that,  for  sheer 
quantity.  Bob  and  Ray  set  some  sort  of 
record.  But  there  was  quality,  too.  In  1952, 
they  won  a  George  Foster  Peabody  award 
for  "best  in  radio  entertainment."  And 
even  more  gratifying,  according  to  Ray, 
was  "the  testimony  of  returning  GIs  from 
all  over  the  world  who  continue  to  report 
The  Boh  And  Ray  Show  among  the  most 
popular  on  the  Armed  Forces  Network." 

To  explain  their  popularity  (about  f^- 
teen  million  people  every  week) ,  it  is  nec- 
essary to  explain  the  Bob  and  Ray  brand 
of  humor.  They  practice  an  art  that  has 
almost  vanished  from  our  time:  the  art 
of  satire.  It's  the  highest  form  of  comedy 
and  the  healthiest,  for  it  uses  ridicule  to 
expose  the  follies  of  the  times.  For  ex- 
ample, you  have  only  to  listen  to  some 
Bob  and  Ray  commercials  to  know  what's 
wrong  with  so  much  radio  and  TV  adver- 
tising. But  you  don't  get  mad  about  it.  You 
laugh.  It's  criticism,  but  it's  good-natured. 

Since  Bob  and  Ray  work  without  a 
script,  many  of  their  most  inspired  mo- 
ments are  unrecorded.  One  critic,  however 
— Philip  Hamburger,  of  The  New  Yorker 
magazine — happened  to  be  listening  with 
pencil  in  hand  one  night.  "Bob  and  Ray 
generally  finish  up  their  program,"  he 
wrote,  "with  a  plug  for  one  of  their  seem- 
ingly endless  supply  of  (imaginary)  prod- 
ucts. The  other  night  it  was  Woodlo,  a 
product  'all  America  is  talking  about.' 
Speaking  rapidly,  Bob  and  Ray  said  that 
Woodlo  was  the  sort  of  product  'that  ap- 
peals to  people  who.'  Moreover,  it  was 
'immunized.'  'You  can  buy  Woodlo  loose!' 
one  of  them  cried.  'Yes,  mothers  and  dads!' 
cried  the  other.  'Available  at  your  neigh- 
borhood!' cried  Bob.  'Drop  in  on  your 
neighborhood!'  cried  Ray." 

In  a  simpler  vein:  "For  the  fellow  who 
can  brush  his  teeth  only  once  a  year,  we 
recommend  steel  wool." 

But  Bob  and  Ray  not  only  lambaste  ad- 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


...  IS  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every  Wednesday  Evening  on  MUTUAL 
Stations 


The  Oklahoma  killer  asked  for  a  mercy  he  had  not  shown 
his  4  victims.  Read  "I  Want  to  Die  Quickly  and  Privately" 
in  July  TRUE  DETECTIVE  MAGAZINE  at  newsstands  now. 


vertising,  they  lampoon  the  programs 
themselves.  Playing  all  the  roles,  their 
"dramatic  interludes"  have  included  such 
gems  as:  Mr.  Trace,  Keener  Than  Most 
Persons  (with  one  thrilling  episode,  "The 
Leaky  Refrigerator  in  the  Efficiency 
Apartment  Murder  Clue"),  Jack  Head- 
strong, the  All-American  American  (he 
was  making  an  inter-planetary  motor- 
cycle), and  Mary  Backstayge,  Noble  Wife 
(the  daytime  drama  that  has  supplanted 
The  Life  and  Loves  of  Linda  Lovely,  since 
they  killed  off  all  the  people  in  that  one). 

Then  there's  Mary  McGoon,  the  com- 
posite of  all  women  commentators  and 
home  helpers.  Her  cure  for  a  cold?  "Goose- 
fat  in  an  Argyle  sock,  hung  aroimd  the 
neck."  Dining-room  etiquette?  "No, 
friends,  beer  should  not  be  served  in  fin- 
ger bowls.  For  quiet  elegance,  serve  it 
in  demi-tasse  cups." 

Curiously  enough,  no  one  has  ever  ob- 
jected to  their  satire.  In  fact,  the  victims 
are  delighted.  Edward  R.  Murrow,  for  ex- 
ample, vows  that  if  ever  there's  a  me- 
chanical difficulty  or  something  goes 
wrong  on  his  Person  To  Person  show,  he's 
going  to  run  a  kinescope  of  the  take-off 
Bob  and  Ray  did.  Instead  of  going  inside 
the  home,  "Edward  R.  Sturdley"  (there's 
always  a  character  named  Sturdley  in 
their  shows)  went  outside  his  first  celeb- 
rity's home.  It  was  a  "human  fly" — and 
visiting  him,  person  to  person,  the  TV 
camera  looked  'way  up  at  a  tall  building 
and  there,  on  top,  was  the  "speck  of  a 
guy."  The  second  celebrity  visited  was  "a 
guy  in  jail."  Showing  the  TV  audience 
where  he  lived,  "Edward  R.  Sturdley" 
pointed  out  the  writing  room,  the  warden's 
office,  the  place  where  the  celebrity  re- 
ceived visitors,  etc.  .  .  . 

For  TV,  Bob  and  Ray  had  to  augment 
their  cast  of  two  to  include  an  actress  for 
the  women's  parts.  Making  her  TV  debut 
with  them  at  NBC  was  Audrey  Meadows 
(Jackie  Gleason's  wife  in  "The  Honey- 
mooners")  who  is  now  one  of  their  perma- 
nent panelists  on  The  Name's  The  Same. 

In  1953,  Bob  and  Ray  switched  to 
WABC-TV  (New  York)  for  a  five-times- 
a-week  show.  In  the  simimer  of  1954,  they 
took  over  the  early  morning  show  (6:30 
to  10:00)  at  New  York's  Station  WINS, 
which  they  still  continue  in  addition  to 
their  current  TV  show.  While  this  is  still 
a  heavy  schedule,  to  Bob  and  Ray — after 
their  marathon  performances  of  several 
years  ago — it  is  like  a  vacation.  And  now, 
there  is  time  at  last  for  the  one  thing  that 
both  take  seriously.  .  .  . 

Last  June,  Bob  married  the  former  Lee 
Knight — a  beautiful  non-professional.  They 
live  in  a  charming  Greenwich  Village 
apartment  with  three  children:  Two  by  a 
previous  marriage,  and  a  baby  born  this 
May.  Bob's  one  hobby  is  painting — water 
colors  and  oils — and  he  has  had  some  ex- 
hibited at  the  Contemporary  Galleries  in 
Manhattan. 

Ray,  on  the  other  hand,  goes  in  for  pho- 
tography. His  main  subjects  are  Raymond, 
age  nine;  Thomas,  six;  and  Barbara,  three 
— for  Ray  is  trying  to  keep  a  pictorial  rec- 
ord of  his  children's  "growing  up."  Most- 
ly, however,  he  and  Liz  enjoy  puttering 
around  their  new  home  in  Plandome 
Manor,  Long  Island. 

If  Ray  seems  a  more  contented  man  than 
most,  it  is  because  he  has  had  proof — 
while  still  alive — that  he  is  not  only  loved, 
but  that  his  family  actually  follow  him  on 
radio  and  TV.  He  and  Bob  were  doing  a 
burlesque  of  Truth  Or  Consequences.  Ray 
did  not  -know  the  answer.  For  his  conse- 
quence. Bob  nailed  him  up  in  a  box  and 
poised  it  on  a  window  ledge — ready  to 
push  it  into  the  Hudson  River  below.  Ray's 
children  never  waited  to  see  whether  Bob 
pushed  the  box  or  not.  They  were  already 
running  out  of  the  living  room  to  go  save 
their  daddy. 


This  Life  I  Love 

(Continued  from,  page  41) 
But  Willy  must  make  good  for  my  hus- 
band and  for  Lucy  and  Desi.  too." 

Willy  is  a  Desilu  Production — and  not  by 
chance. 

"Lucille  Ball  is  one  of  my  oldest  and 
most  violent  friends,"  June  says.  The  vio- 
lence refers  to  Lucille's  super-abundant 
enthusiasm.  Lucy  has  definite  ideas  about 
what  her  friends  should  be  doing  and 
never  stops  promoting  until  they  get  to 
doing  it.  "She  gives  not  only  advice  but 
opportunity,  too.  While  she's  selling  you  on 
doing  a  show,  she's  selling  a  producer  on 
hiring  you." 

Lucy  gets  credit  for  promoting  quite  a 
few  people  into  stardom.  The  hst  includes 
Van  Johnson,  June  Allyson  and  June 
Havoc.  Back  in  the  Forties,  Lucy  thought 
Miss  Havoc  should  come  to  Hollywood,  and 
so  Miss  Havoc  made  twenty-six  films. 

More  recently,  Lucy  decided  June  should 
have  a  television  program,  so  she  and 
Desi  got  together  with  June's  husband  Bill 
Spier,  who  is  a  famed  producer  in  radio 
and  TV.  Together,  they  tailor-made  Willy 
for  June.  It  is  comedy-with-heart  about  a 
pert,  gentle  woman  lawyer. 

"But  the  decision  to  make  Willy  came 
so  suddenly,"  June  recalls.  "We  were 
about  to  settle  in  a  new  house.''  The  house 
is  a  brownstone  in  "Buskin  Hill"  in  Man- 
hattan. The  street,  off  Park  Avenue,  is  fast 
becoming  an  actors'  colony — Maria  Riva 
and  Alfred  Drake  live  there.  The  idea  is  to 
get  a  theatrical  friend  to  buy  into  the 
block  every  time  a  "civilian"  sells. 

"Bill  had  been  paying  about  $350  a 
month  rent  and  so  I  asked  myself  why 
shouldn't  he  be  paying  me.  instead  of  a 
stranger,  sind  I  bought  the  building."  Her 
building  has  an  apartment  on  every  floor, 
and  the  landlady  has  the  first  floor.  It  has 
not  yet  been  furnished — for,  exactly  one 
week  after  its  purchase,  June  and  Bill 
came  to  Hollywood  to  film  Willy.  Since 
June  has  been  spending  most  of  her  time 
in  either  New  York  or  Hollywood,  she 
bought  a  second  house — this  time,  in  Bev- 
erly Hills.  It's  a  two-story,  gray  stucco 
with  white  trim.  June  is  in  love  with  it  and 
calls  the  architecture  "forever  style."  It 
is  a  large  house  with  so  many  windows 
June  had  to  store  most  of  her  paintings. 

1  here's  a  reason  for  all  the  glass,"  June 
says.  "The  former  owner  spent  twenty- 
thousand  dollars  on  plants,  shrubs  and 
landscaping.  He  wanted  to  enjoy  it  whether 
he  was  in  or  out  of  the  house." 

She  taikes  no  credit  for  the  gardening, 
but  the  interior  is  all  her  doing.  Perhaps 
most  striking  is  the  drawing  room,  fur- 
nished in  black  and  white  contrasts  with 
jvist  a  Uttle  tangerine  for  accent.  June 
does  all  of  her  own  planning  and  deco- 
rating, and  just  about  makes  the  furniture 
herself.  A  lot  of  her  stuff  came  from  Bar- 
ker Brothers'  Basement,  a  kind  of  second- 
hand shop  in  Los  Angeles  where  everyone 
sells  their  own  furniture  and  buys  some- 
one else's. 

"I  got  an  impossible  Jacobean  style 
that  no  one  else  in  the  world  would  want," 
June  notes.  At  home  she  stripped  down  the 
chairs  and  sofa  and  put  on  new  fabric 
cove.-s  so  they  would  mix  with  modern. 
She  figures  the  average  cost  per  chair  was 
about  five  dollars. 

June  will  buy  no  more  houses,  for  she 
has  no  desire  to  be  a  realtor.  To  her,  as 
to  most  actors,  a  house  represents  security, 
and  that  is  about  all.  "As  a  landlady,  I  try 
to  be  fair,"  she  says.  "I  charge  Bill  only  a 
single  rental.  Just  for  the  home  his  wife 
lives  in." 

Bill  Spier,  in  the  Avords  of  his  wife,  is 
"tall,  dark  and  woolly."  He  has  a  crew- 
cut    beard    which    conspicuously     covers 


ASK  YOUR 

DOCTOR 


DRUGGIST 


'X^ 


If  you  want  to 

BANISH  BAD  BREATH  AND 
BODY  ODOR  PROBLEMS  FOREVER 

_Try -ENNDS"^  Tablets  containing 

DarotoP-the  only  deodorant  that  gets  to  the 

source  of  both  problems  •internally 


,,j  , ^iaffiiise"  can  assure  you  of 

Neither  a  eho«er  no,  a  "J,"*;"" ''XS.  •■£•■»»»'■  TaW". 

or  mask  external  symptoms. 

^1  ^  ^f  the  most  potent  essences 

"ENNDS"  contain  D^f  ^V'^'^^^^tnt  Me.  The  Darotol  in 

of  ChlorophyU  ever  ^f^'^^^^Jl^rM  and  where  deodorant 
-Ennds'' acts  mternaHy,  where  odors  St  ^^^^^.  ^^^^ 

sprays,  creams,  niouthwashes,  e*^-'  ^^      ^^„,,  i„  general  are 
from  foods,  liquors,  ^^°^l^^^^^  ^°J\,y  coming  out  on  your 
checked  before  they  can  embarrass  you    y 
breath  or  through  your  pores. 

Safe,  pleasant -tasting  "Ennds-'J 
do  not  upset  the  stomach  TVial 
size  at  all  Drug  counters  only  49 ^ 
The  larger  sizes  are  even  more 
economical.  "Ennds"  are  also 
available  in  Canada. 


HELP 


us  take  orders  for  magazine  sub- 
scriptions and  earn  lots  of  money  doing  it.  Write 
today  for  FREE  money-making  information.  Subscrip- 
tion Sales  Dept.,  205  East  42  Street,  New  York 
17,  N.  Y. 


BIG  MONEY 

FOR  YOUR  TV  IDEAS 

T\"  Producers  are  **crying"  for  your  new  story  ideas, 
'  'CASH  IN"  on  your  hidden  talent  in  your  spare 
time.  Let  the  "know  how"  of  leading  TV  writers  & 
directors  turn  your  untapped  talent  into  dollars. 
Write  for  free  information  &  sample  script  actually 
used  on  recent  TV  Show. 

TelecraKers,  Inc.,  6087  Sunset  Blvd..  Columbia  Square 
Hollywood    28,    California 


DISCOVERED!  NEW!  Makes 

You  Look  10  Years  Younger 

By  TONIGHT! 

Say  "good  bye"  to  gray, 
streaked,  dull,  drab  hair  that 
looks  old.  New  TINTZ 
CREME  COLOR  SHAM- 
POO tint  makes  hair  shine 
with  lasting,  deep  color  tone 
so  natural-looking  no  one 
ever  suspects  the  beautiful 
color  isn't  your  own.  Easy  . . . 
best  for  home  use.  Lanolin  con- 
ditioner base  makes  hair  softer, 
lustrous,  easy-to-dress,  wave  beau- 
tifully. 14  nature's  shades  on  color  chart  with  every  pack- 
age. Ask  at  drug  stores.  Money  back  guarantee. 

TINTZ  CREME  COLOR  SHAMPOO 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  finish  m  2  Yeois 

as  your  time  and  a^ilitiea  permit. TlquivaleDt  to  resi- 
work — prepares    for    college    entrance    esamo.    Standard 
.   :?.    texts   aupplied.    Diploma   awarded.    Credit   for    H.    S.   subjects 
ompleted.  SinKle  eubjectu  if  desired.  Aok  for  Free  Bulletin. 

American  School,  Dept.  H  B53.  Drexel  at  58tti,  Chicago  37 


JKOSO    IS 

Ufc—  YOURS 

On  Just 
SO  Boxes  ol 


I  HLL'bLUW  KODACHROME 

CHRISTMAS  CARDS 

Newradiant  color  creations  sell  on  sight,  pay  you  $1.0S 
perboxlTaUCard3.21&25-Card  51  Assts.,  Name-In- 
Red  Parchment  Cards  at  3c  each,  Relisious  Koda- 
chromes.  176 fast-sellers.    Profits  to  100%,  plus  $10-$50 
in  Bonas  Gifts!     Assortments  on  approval.    Imprints 
Free.  Act  fast- get  $1.00  Gift  FREE.  Write  TODAY     

CREATIVE  CARDS,  4401  Cermak  Rd.,  Dept.  86-B,  Chicago  23.  Illinois 


BE  YOUR  OWN 
MUSIC  TEACHER 

Now  lf»  EASY  to  learn  ANY  INSTRUMENT— even  U  you 
don't  know  a  single  note  now.  No  boring  exercises.  You  play 
delightful  pieces  RIGHT  AWAY-trom  very  flrrt  lesson! 
properly— by  note.  Simple  as  A-B-C.  You  make  amazing  prog- 
ress— at  home,  in  spare  time,  without  teachOT.  — .^^ 
Only  few  cents  per  lesson.  000,000  STUDENTSl  ^ 
EBee  D#%/M#  shows  bow  easy  it  is  to  learn 
rKCC  WWIi  music  this  modem  way. 
Write  for  It.  No  obllsatlon;  no  sBleaman  «rtU 
call  upon  you,  U.S.  Sdtfiol  of  Music*  Studio  A307. 
Port  waihinaton.  N.  V.  (STth  successful  yMr.l 


H 


most  of  his  face.  When  they  first  married, 
June's  friends  spoke  of  him  approvingly, 
with  but  one  qualification.  "What  about 
that  beard?" — as  if  they  expected  her  to 
sfie  that  it  was  shaved  off.  But  it  was  so 
obvious  and  June,  no  trifling  wag  her- 
self, would  stare  at  them  quizzically  and 
ask,  "What  beard?" — and  so  they  only 
sputtered. 

In  1948,  Bill  and  June  were  married  in 
California  or  out  of  California.  No  one 
really  knows.  They  had  a  big  party  before 
the  wedding,  and  then  Bill  and  June  drove 
off  with  the  wedding  cake.  But,  to  this 
day,  nobody  knows  where  they  were 
married. 

"Bill  is  unpredictable  and  charming,"  she 
says,  "with  a  wonderful  gentleness  and 
sense  of  humor." 

William  Spier  is  a  producer  noted  for 
his  brilliance.  He  has  produced  and/or 
directed  many  shows,  including  Sam  Spade, 
Philip  Morris  Playhouse,  Omnihus,  Sus- 
pense. He  has  received  numerous  tributes 
— including  three  Peabody  Awards.  ("He's 
so  smart.  He's  a  one-man  Information 
Please.")  At  nineteen.  Bill  was  a  first- 
string  music  critic.  He  plays  the  piano 
like  a  concert  artist — which  he  once  was. 
But  he's  so  modest  that  June  has  to  coax 
him  to  play  for  guests 

The  Spiers  live  alone.  Alone?  When 
they  owned  a  beach  house  at  Malibu,  they 
had  thirty-six  birds,  three  dogs  and 
eighteen  cats.  The  disproportionate  num- 
ber of  dogs  is  not  favoritism.  June  ex- 
plains, "Cats  sleep  in  heaps,  but  dogs  need 
separate  places  and  make  a  housing  prob- 
lem." 

When  they  gave  up  the  beach  house 
(June  says  there  was  so  much  work  keep- 
ing up  the  polish  and  everything  that  it 
was  like  being  in  the  Navy),  they  gave  up 
most  of  the  animal  people.  "They  kept  only 
one  dog  and  three  cats — "But  I  found  jobs 
for  all  the  others."  June  and  Mrs.  James 
Mason,  Pamela  Kellino,  are  the  self-ap- 
pointed animal-placement  bureaus  in 
Hollywood.  It  is  a  labor  of  love,  for  they 
take  no  fees  from  owners  or  animals. 

June's  only  dog,  at  present,  is  a  York- 
shire terrier.  She  calls  him  Timothy 
Troll.  A  troll  is  a  Scandinavian  gremlin 
with  fire-red  hair,  a  devil's  grin  and  green 
teeth.  Timothy  has  the  gremlin  look 
minus  Technicolor.  And  there  are  three 
pot-bellied  cats,  Cecil,  Sam  and  Kelsey. 
"Cecil  is  a  ham,"  June  tells  you.  "He  is 
always  boring  our  guests  with  old  jokes." 
He  turns  the  radio  off  and  on.  The 
Spiers  have  photographic  proof  of  this 
feat.  Cecil  is  also  a  patriarch.  He  takes 
credit  for  many  of  the  eighteen  cats. 

Anyway,  the  Spiers  aren't  really  alone, 
but  June  keeps  no  servants:  "I  enjoy 
cooking,  and  Bill's  a  cinch  to  cook  for.  He's 
a  meat-and-potato  man — except  he  pre- 
fers rice  to  potatoes."  June  is  an  excep- 
tionally good  cook  and  her  recipes  have 
appeared  in  professional  cookbooks.  She 
comes  up  with  slightly  exotic  dishes,  such 
as  Shoyu  steak — strips  of  beef  marinated 
for  four  hours  in  a  mishmash  of  bourbon, 
soy  sauce,  ground  ginger,  garlic  and  a  lit- 
tle sugar,  then  charcoal-broiled.  "Most- 
ly, though,  I'm  a  practical  cook,"  she  says. 
"I  can  make  three  or  four  dishes  and  get 
them  on  the  table  hot.  And  I  can  do  it 
without  getting  the  kitchen  in  a  mess." 

So  it  doesn't  take  long  to  do  dishes  and 

pots — which  is  lucky,  for  they  need  most 

of  the  evening  to  get  June  asleep:   "I'm  a 

raving  insomniac.     Bill  reads  me  to  sleep 

with    delightful    things.     Lately    it's    been 

Dickens." 

June  is  a  high-tension,  wound-up-like- 

T     an-eight-day-clock    type.    It's     a    family 

V    trait.     Neither   she   nor  her  sister,  Gypsy 

R    Rose  Lee,  respect  normal   spans   of  time. 

They  get  to  talking  some  evenings  and  go 

right  through   the  night  without  blinking 


an  eye  or  fracturing  a  tongue.  And  every- 
thing is  done  with  such  intensity  that  many 
times  June  hasn't  known  that  she  was  ex- 
hausted until  she  blacked  out.  Not  sur- 
prisingly, she  has  many  accomplishments. 
She  paints,  designs,  dances,  sails,  sews, 
decorates,  fences,  plays  top-flight  tennis. 
No  one  knows  all  the  arts,  sports,  hobbies 
and  avocations  she  has  mastered.  It's 
quite  a  thing,  for  June  hasn't  been  to 
school  a  day  in  her  life.  She  went  to 
work  shortly  after  she  was  out  of  the 
cradle. 

June,  a  first-generation  American,  was 
born  in  Seattle,  Washington.  Her  Nor- 
wegian-born father  was  a  newspaperman 
and  the  family  name  was  Hovick.  Her 
mother  was  zealously  ambitious  for  her 
children  and,  at  the  age  of  two,  June  won 
a  five-dollar  gold  piece,  first  prize  for  her 
dancing — so    she    bought    a    guinea    pig. 

She  danced  at  club  dates  and  benefits  in 
Seattle  and  Hollywood.  In  a  film  starring 
Mary  Astor,  June  played  the  part  of  an 
orphan.  She  was  called  on  to  do  a  lot 
of  crying,  and  this  was  accomplished  by 
telling  her  repeatedly  that  her  dog  had 
been  run  over.  By  this  time,  June  was  all 
of  three  years  old. 

She  joined  (or  was  joined  to)  the  Henry 
Duffy  Players,  where  she  had  fifty  "sides" 
of  dialogue  to  learn.  When  she  approached 
the  age  of  five,  she  struck  out  with  an  act 
of  her  own.  She  has  a  memento  of  those 
days:  A  picture  of  herself  sitting  on  her 
trunk,  inscribed,  "Dainty  Baby  June,  the 
Darling  of  Vaudeville.  Reg.  U.S.  Pat.  Off." 
She  was  Dainty  June  until  vaudeville 
dried  up  and  blew  away,  and  then  she  was 
just  plain  June.  At  an  age  when  she 
should  have  been  puzzled  by  plane  geome- 
try, she  was  worried  about  where  her 
next  buck  was  coming  from. 

She  headed  for  New  York  and  Broad- 
way. She  wanted  to  be  an  actress.  She 
wanted  a  leading  or  supporting  role — or 
a  spear  to  carry — or  just  a  job  in  a  chorus 
line.  While  she  auditioned  and  waited, 
she  worked  as  a  model  and  saw  service  in 
seven  dance  marathons.  (She  was  us- 
ually a  prize  winner — once,  she  and  a 
partner  split  $2500.  This  was  hardly  a 
windfall.  The  marathon  ran  three  and  a 
half  months  and  the  dancers  were  on  the 
floor  seven  days  a  week,  twenty-four 
hours  a  day,  with  only  eleven  minutes 
rest  in  each  hour.) 

Those  years  were  not  a  complete  loss. 
She  had  a  bit  part  in  an  operetta,  "For- 
bidden Melody."  She  toured  with  the 
road  company  of  "The  Women."  She  fell 
in  with  a  crowd  of  young  actors  who 
talked  her  into  giving  up  a  stock  experi- 
ence in  Pawling,  New  York,  for  a  workout 
in  the  Eastern  summer-resort  circuit.  The 
argument  was  that  Danny  Kaye  and  about 
fifty  other  big  stars  had  been  discovered 
there. 

"I  can't  think  of  any  time  that  I  worked 
harder,"  she  recalls.  At  the  resort  hotel, 
she  did  a  play  on  Tuesday,  a  cafe  show  on 
Wednesday,  variety  on  Thursday,  a  con- 
cert on  Friday,  a  water  show  on  Satur- 
day, a  revue  on  Sunday — and  quit  on 
Monday.  June  quit  every  Monday  for 
two  months.  "There  wasn't  an  instant  of 
privacy.  You  had  to  tell  jokes  at  break- 
fast or  in  the  pool  or  the  powder  room." 

And,  besides,  she  didn't  get  discovered. 


Red-letter  date: 

JULY  5 

get  your  copy  of 
August  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 


At  the  close  of  summer,  she  went  from 
borscht  to  caviar,  and  took  a  role  at  the 
summer  theater  in  fashionable  South- 
ampton. "I  was  cast  as  a  prostitute." 
she  recalls.  "I  was  supposed  to  be  sick 
and  done-in,  and  that's  exactly  the  way 
I  felt." 

But  her  resort-hotel  buddies  called  from 
New  York.  They  had  hired  a  theater  for 
a  few  hours  and  were  inviting  producers 
and  theater  managers — big,  important  peo- 
ple— to  see  their  acts.  Actually,  June 
says,  "There  was  only  one  important  per- 
son in  the  audience  that  morning,  and  he 
was  Forrest  Haring.  Everyone  else  sent 
office  boys  and  receptionists.  We  didn't 
know  that,  of  course,  and  killed  ourselves 
for  more  than  two  hours   on  the   stage." 

The  curtain  fell  and  they  waited  for  im- 
portant people  to  rush  back  with  contracts. 
It  was  quiet.  Then  one  of  the  boys  came 
back  with  a  message  for  June  that  a  tall, 
thin  man  wanted  to  see  her.  "In  those 
days,  I  didn't  ask  questions,"  June  says. 
"The  thin  man  told  me  to  bring  the  piano 
player  along  to  the  Barrymore  Theater, 
and  I  did." 

Oeveral  men  were  seated  in  the  Barry - 
more  orchestra  seats.  June  went  on  the 
stage  and  sang  for  them.  She  sang  and 
danced  the  same  specialty  numbers  she 
had  done  during  the  summer.  Then  a 
mild,  soft-spoken  man  stood  up  and  asked 
her  to  sing  just  one  un-funny  song. 

"I  don't  know  any,"  she  said. 

"I'll  give  you  the  words,"  the  man  said, 
"and  you  sing  them  back."  (The  man 
was  Richard  Rodgers,  the  composer.) 

So  she  sang  a  ballad  and  they  asked  for 
her  phone  number.  All  told,  she  had 
been  on  the  stage  forty-five  minutes,  and 
that  is  a  long  time. 

"I  was  sick.  Not  a  word  from  them." 
She  remembers,  "I  went  back  to  that  flea- 
bag  of  a  hotel  and  filled  up  the  bathtub. 
I  got  in  and  cried  for  an  hour.  Then  I 
was  called  to  the  phone." 

It  was  the  George  Abbott  office  and  they 
wanted  her  to  come  over  immediately. 
She  was  signed  to  one  of  the  leads  in 
a  new  musical  which  proved  to  be  the 
smash  hit,  "Pal  Joey."  That  was  the  fall 
of  1940,  and  June's  star  zoomed  like  a 
kite  caught  in  a  March  wind.  ("There's 
no  elation — nothing  else  in  the  world — 
to  match  the  feeling  when  you're  in  the 
producer's  office  and  they  hand  you  a 
script  and  say,  'We  want  you.' ") 

In  1941,  June  left  "Pal  Joey"  for  Holly- 
wood and  the  movies.  She  toured  Army 
camps  during  the  war  and  returned  to 
Broadway  to  win  the  Donaldson  Award 
for  her  performance  in  "Mexican  Hay- 
ride."  She  played  Sadie  Thompson  in  the 
musical  version  of  "Rain."  In  those  days, 
June  was  essentially  a  comedienne,  flip 
and  brassy.  She  was  a  blonde  bombshell, 
a  surefire  show-stopper.  "I  used  to  stsind 
in  the  wings  listening  to  the  applause  and 
ask  why?  Friends  who  could  really  sing 
or  dance  used  to  tease  me.  I  knew  I  was 
a  faker  with  dancing  or  singing." 

She  was  sensational  as  a  female  rough- 
neck but,  unfortunately,  found  she  was 
expected  to  play  the  same  part  off-stage. 
"It  got  me  quoted.  I  was  a  star.  I  had 
fame  and  I  was  making  a  living.  It  was 
security  bom  of  desperation." 

And  this  is  the  guts  of  the  story,  for 
June  was  almost  swallowed  up  by  the 
Frankenstein  monster  she  had  created. 
She  began  hating  herself  and  her  flip, 
flashy  role.  She  became  depressed.  She 
withdrew.  She  dragged  herself  to  parties, 
then  hid  in  corners.  One  evening  at  a 
party  she  was  trapped  by  the  late  Ger- 
trude Lawrence — "She  came  up  and  intro- 
duced herself  just  as  if  everyone  didn't 
know  who  she  was." 

Miss  Lawrence  praised  June  for  her 
performance  and  then  said,  "The  way  you 


play  comedy  makes  me  think  you  have  the 
makings  of  a  fine  dramatic  actress." 

June  choked,  shivered  up  a  sob  and  then 
splattered  Miss  Lawrence  with  tears.  The 
great  lady  said,  "I  knew  something  was 
wTong.    Let's  make  a  lunch  date  and  talk." 

When  they  met.  June  opened  up.  She 
told  all  about  herself  and  her  problems, 
personal  and  professional.  Miss  Lawrence 
imderstood.  She  had  suffered  a  similar 
experience.  "Don't  say  things  because 
people  expect  you  to  be  shocking.  Be 
quiet.  Be  yourself,"  she  counseled.  "And, 
for  the  next  eight  or  ten  years,  take  only 
dramatic  parts  and  starve  a  little." 

June  took  the  advice,  but  has  never 
starved.  She  proved  to  be  as  effective  in 
drama  as  in  comedy.  She  has  received 
high  critical  praise  for  her  performance 
in  such  demanding  and  difficult  stage 
roles  as  Amy,  in  "They  Knew  What  They 
Wanted,"  and  for  her  Sadie  Thompson 
in  the  play — without  music.  She  also  took 
an  Oscar  for  her  supporting  film  role  in 
"Gentlemen's  Agreement."  She  put  a 
curl  in  the  coaxial  cable  with  her  TV 
rendition  of  Eugene  O'Neill's  "Anna 
Christie."  Of  course,  she  has  played  many 
other  heay\^  roles  and  has  even  done  some 
directing.  In  the  latter  job,  she  had  her 
sister  Gypsy  as  one  of  her  stars.  (June 
and  Gypsy  are  very  close,  although  both 
are  stamped  "Handle  With  Care."  Either 
can   be   explosive.     Or   conv^ulsive.) 

Off-stage.  June's  taste  in  clothes  is  sim- 
ple. She  favors  plcdn,  tailored  clothes 
with  a  feminine  touch — maybe  a  bit  of 
delicate  white  lace  or  a  slight  flare  to  her 
skirt.  She  hasn't  time  to  sew  these  days, 
but  continues  to  design  her  clothes. 

June  is  as  concerned  about  Wiily's  ap- 
pearance as  she  is  about  her  own.  Because 
Willy  was  a  small-town  lawyer  in  the  be- 
ginning, she  didn't  dress  for  tomorrow. 
Letters  from  the  female  audience — whom 
June  refers  to  as  "my  ladies'' — complained 
about  Willy  looking  a  wee  bit  dowdy. 
They  wanted  smarter  clothes  and  June 
gratified  them.  They  didn't  like  her  pony- 
tail,  complaining  about  the  wiggle.  In  its 
place  June  has  a  chignon. 

1  here  is  nothing  pat  about  June's  reac- 
tion to  the  audience.  Like  all  fine  per- 
formers, she  respects  her  audience  and  is 
dedicated  to  giving  her  best.  She  belongs 
to  that  breed  of  show  people  who  keep 
going  so  long  as  they  can  walk. 

During  a  Broadway  run.  some  years 
ago,  June  was  so  ill  during  a  performance 
that  when  she  left  the  theater  she  col- 
lapsed on  the  sidewalk.  She  was  so  ex- 
hausted that  she  couldn't  even  identify 
herself  at  the  moment.  And  there  was 
the  year  of  1952,  when  she  was  playing 
in  "Affair  of  State"  on  Broadway,  as  well 
as  appearing  frequently  on  the  TV  pro- 
gram This  7s  Show  Business.  She  was 
pregnant  and  terribly  ill.  In  spite  of  a 
fever,  she  played  a  Saturday  matinee  and 
an  evening  show.  She  alerted  only  the 
stage  manager.  After  the  night  perform- 
ance they  carted  her  off  to  the  hospital. 
She  missed  the  Sunday-night  program  of 
Show  Business,  but  that  was  unavoidable, 
for  she  was  under  anesthesia — and  had 
lost  her  baby. 

If  you  read  Broadway  columns,  you 
know  that  June  has  a  teen-age  daughter 
who,  like  mother,  aspires  to  the  theater. 
Her  name  is  April  and  she  is  studying 
dramatics  in  New  York  but  insists  that 
she  doesn't  want  to  trade  on  her  miother's 
prestige.  June  respects  this  and  does  not 
speak  of  her  for  publication. 

'T  don't  give  April  advice.  I  don't  give 
anyone  advice,"  she  says.  "Nothing  is  go- 
ing to  separate  someone  from  this  business 
if  they  love  it.  I  am  personal  proof  of 
that."  She  adds,  "When  I'm  eighty-five,  I 
want  to  be  on  the  stage  and  be  a  first- 
rate   actress." 


STOP  PAIN  mmm 

COMBAT  INFECTION 
PROMOTE  HEALING 


WITH  ANTISEPTIO 


Campho-Phen/que 

I    (PRONOUNCEO  CAM-FO-FIN-EEk)       C 


USE  IT  FOR 

MINOR  BURNS.CUTS 

SGRATGHES.ABRASIONS 

Quick!  Apply  Campho-Phenique  at  once  to  minor 
bums  from  hot  cooking  utensils,  hot  water  or  steam 
.  .  .  stops  pain  instantly,  promotes  rapid  healing.  The 
same  thing  happens  when  you  use  it  on  minor  cuts, 
scratches  and  abrasions.  Campho-Phenique  is  highly 
antiseptic.  Wonderful  for  fever  blisters,  cold  sores, 
gum  boils;  to  reUeve  itching  and  to  guard  against 
infecting  insect  bites.  Used  on  pimples,  Campho- 
Phenique  helps  prevent  their  spread  and  re-infection. 


Nagging  Backache 
Sleepless  Nights 

Often  Due  to  Kidney  Slow-  down 

When  kidneyf  unction  slows  down, manyfolks  com- 
plain of  nagging  backache,  headaches,  dizziness  and 
loss  of  pep  and  energy.  Don't  suffer  restless  nights 
with  these  discomforts  if  reduced  kidney  function 
is  getting  you  down— due  to  such  common  causes  as 
stress  and  strain,  over-exertion  or  exposure  to  cold. 
Minor  bladder  irritations  due  to  cold  or  wrong  diet 
may  cause  getting  up  nights  or  frequent  passages. 

Don't  neglect  your  kidneys  if  these  conditions 
bother  you.  Try  Doan's  Pills— a  mild  diuretic.  Used 
successfully  by  millions  for  over  50  years.  It's  amaz- 
ing how  many  times  Doan's  give  happy  relief  from 
these  discomforts— help  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes 
and  filters  flush  out  waste.  Get  Doan's  Pills  today! 


NEW! 


NAME- 
IN-RED 


63 


FOR  YOU! 


PARCHMENT 

CHRISTMAS , 

CARDS    f 


You  make  more  money,  easily,  the 
Southern  way!  With  no  experi- 
ence you  make  $65  on  just  65  Iwxes 
of  lovely  new  Southern  Hospi- 
tality Christmas  Cards. 

Southern  Gives  You  Fast  Service 

Show  smartest  new  idea  in  Christmas 
Cards— at  magic  25  for  SI  selling  price. 
UptolOO%cash  profit  on  New/ 
Southern  Beauty  21 -Card  Si/ 
Assortment .  Also  new  Slim-  / 
3im  Cards,  Gift3_,  others.  All  , 
orders  shipped  in  24  hours. 
FREE!    Exclusive  sample  j 
I^resentation  Book!    4  assort- 
ments sent  on  approval.  Act  j 
_  fast,  get  exquisite  Travel  Slip-  , 
fpersn'Case  Free.  Send  coupon! 


SOUTHERN  GREETINGS,  Dept.A-31 
478  N.  Hollywood  St.,  Momphls  12,Tonn, 


Address.^ 
City 


HAIR  ON  FACE? 


Quick  as  a  wink,  superfluous  hair  eliminated.  Com- 
pletely removes  all  hair  from  FACE,  arms  and  legs. 
Checks  future  growth.  Leaves  the  skin  petal-smooth. 


P=  I   L.  ATO  R 


Was  $5.00  —  Now  only  $1.10 

Like  magic.  Milady's  skin  becomes  adorable.  For  the 
finest  down  or  the  heaviest  growth.  Seems  miraculous, 
but  our  39  years  experience  proves  it  is  the  scientifically 
correct  way.  Odorless.  Safe.  Harmless.  Simple  to  apply. 
Superior  to  ordinary  hair  removers.  For  15  years  ZiP 
Epilatorwas  J5.00.  NOW  ONLY $1.10.  Same  superior 
formula,  same  size.  Good  stores  or  by  mail  $1.10  or 

kC.O.D.  No  Fed.  tax.  Above  guaranteed,  money-back.  I 
JORDEAU  INC.  Box  G-19  SOUTH  ORANGE,  N.  i.A 


ir-Mlniite  IVIiracle"Gives 


NewLIFE 


BLONDE 
HAIR! 


Special  Shampoo  Washes  Hair  Shades  Lighter, 
Safely... Gives  It  Wonderful,  Radiant  Shine! 

It's  almost  miraculous  how,  without  tints,  rinses  or  ugly 
bleached  look,  you  con  now  safely  give  your  hair  the  spar* 
kling  blonde  color  that  men  love.  You  can  do  it  quickly,  easily, 
at  home  in  just  II  minutes— with  BLONDEX.  This  amazing 
shampoo  contains  ANDIUA^  for  extra  lightness  and  shine. 
Instantly  removes  dingy  film  that  mokes  hair  dark.  Washes 
blonde  hair  shades  lighter.  Gives  it  lovely  lustre.  Safe  for 
children.  Get  BLONDEX  today  at  lOc,  drug  or  dept.  stores. 


T 
V 
R 

79 


n/^  EXOTIC  JEWELRY 


Culture  Pearls  from  Living  Oysters! 

The  loveliness  of  this 
Culture  Pearl  is  breath- 
taking In  its  pink-lustre 
sea  shell.  Displayed  in  a 
one-inch  diameter  show- 
case with  beautifully 
marked  frame!  Extra! 
Reverse  side  of  each  see- 
thru  frame  is  ornamented 
with  a  sprig  of  deep- 
green  fern  — symbol  of 
long  life  and  eternal  hap- 
piness. You'll  get  compli- 
ments wherever  you  go! 

Massive   Bracelet  $1.98 
Necklace  to  Match  1.98 
Earrings   to   Match  1.98 
Ensemble  of  All 
3  Pieces  5.00 


Ge.um.  LUCKY  STARFISH 


Surrounded  by  exquisite 
real  sea  shells  and  set 
into  our  own  lovely  re- 
production of  an  antique 
watchcase.  See-thru  un- 
breakable crystal  front 
and  back!  You'll  marvel 
at  the  originality  of  this 
genuine  starfish!  Watch- 
case  and  chain  exquis- 
itely finished.  A  real 
conversation  piece! 

Massive    Bracelet   $1.98 
Necklace  to  Match  1.98 
Earrings  to  Match  1.98 
Ensemble  of  All 
3  Pieces 5.00 


She  "FLOATING  OPALS 


Great  big  nuggets  of 
fiery  genuine  opals 
floating  in  a  miniature, 
clear  crystal,  unbreak- 
able soothsayer's 
GLOBE.  Yes!  The  gem 
ancients  claimed  had 
magical  properties  — 
the  power  to  make 
your  hopes  come  true! 
GENUINE  OPALS  at  an 
unbelievable  low  price. 

Massive   Bracelet  $1.98  : 
Necklace  to  Match  1.98  t 
Earrings  to   Match  1.98  ;' 
Ensemble  of  All 
3  Pieces 5.00 


'.— V 


COIN  BRACELET 


Massive   Bracelet  $1.98 
Necklace  to  Match  1.98 
Earrings   to   Match  1.98 
Ensemble  of  All 
3  Pieces 5.00 


Genuine 
Foreign  Coins 

Seven  gold-colored  For- 
eign Coins  mounted  on  a 
massive  link  bracelet. 
A  King's  ransom  that 
you'll  see  in  the  most 
exclusive  shops  at  fancy 
prices.  These  Genuine 
Foreign  Coin  Bracelets 
are  the  rage  in  New  York 
and  Hollywood.  Order  at 
our  low,  low  price— today. 


T 
V 
R 


HUSH  ORDER  TODAY 

1  Mercury  Jewelry  Co.                    Dept. 
1  112  Main  St.,  Osslning,  N.  Y. 

RM-755  [ 

1 

■       Send     me     the     items     checked     below.     ] 
1   $ (No  COD) 

enclose   I 

1 

■   CULTURED    PEARLS 

1  n  Bracelet         D  Necklace         D  Earrings 

1 

a   Set   1 

■   LUCKY   STARFISH 

1  D  Bracelet         D  Necklace         Q  Earrings 

D   Set   1 

1    FLOATING    OPALS 

1   D  Bracelet         D  Necklace         D  Earrings 

1 
D   Set   1 

■    FOREIGN   COINS 

1  n  Bracelet         D  Necklace        D  Earrings 

I 
O  Set  I 

■  Name 

1                                            Pleasa  Print 

1   Street 

1 

J  City State 

■              prices    include   Federal    Tax— Postage   Pr 

■paid 

Cinderella  with  a  Song 


(Continued  from  page  33) 
From  the  time  she  was  four,  Peggy 
dreamed  beyond  her  means.  "I  was  born 
in  Greensburg,  Pennsylvania,"  she  says, 
"during  the  Depression.  There  was  only 
one  factory  in  the  town,  and,  when  they 
went  on  strike,  that  was  it.  Half  the  time, 
my  father  was  out  of  work."  But  poverty 
didn't  keep  Peggy  from  dreaming:  "When 
I  was  four  years  old  and  friends  or  rela- 
tives asked  me,  'What  are  you  going  to  be 
when  you  grow  up,  Peggy?' — I  always 
answered,  'A  movie  star.'  I  think  it  was 
my  first  complete  thought." 

Peggy  remembers  the  struggle  that  goes 
hand-in-hand  with  the  Cinderella  tale. 
First,  her  dad  was  on  relief,  and  later  he 
worked  for  the  WPA.  Peggy  particularly 
remembers  two  early  hardships:  The  win- 
ter cold  and  her  lack  of  proper  clothing. 
"Nothing  gets  so  cold  as  morning  snow  on 
the  road  to  school,"  says  Peggy.  "Most  of 
the  kids  had  snow  suits — at  least,  coats 
and  bottoms  that  matched.  I  didn't.  I  had 
a  few  old  leftovers.  One  of  them  had  a 
hole  in  the  seat  of  the  pants.  When  my 
mother  mended  it,  without  realizing,  she 
made  the  patch  in  the  shape  of  a  heart. 
You've  heard  of  people  who  wear  their 
hearts  on  their  sleeves — I  sat  on  mine." 

When  she  was  ten  years  old,  Peggy's 
family  moved  from  Greensburg  to  Raven- 
na, Ohio.  Peggy  remembers  that  trying  to 
make  financial  ends  meet  was  impossible. 
For  every  item  bought,  it  seemed  the  fam- 
ily had  to  give  up  two  of  something  else. 
But  when,  at  five,  Peggy  had  showed  great 
talent,  her  family  and  grandmother  to- 
gether scraped  up  twenty-five  cents  a  week 
for  dancing  lessons.  Before  the  first  re- 
cital, Peggy's  teacher  wanted  to  display 
this  talent  with  a  solo.  "I  was  thrilled," 
says  Peg,  "but  the  twenty-five  cents  a 
week  had  taken  all  the  money.  We 
couldn't  afford  the  costume." 

After  school,  the  other  youngsters  spent 
the  afternoon  seeing  a  ten-cent  movie,  but 
little  Peggy  couldn't  afford  even  this  small 
luxury.  "I  was  always  the  one  left  at  the 
desk,"  she  says.  It  was  here  that  Peggy 
learned  to  create  her  own  amusements. 
Since  she  couldn't  afford  to  be  entertained, 
she  decided  to  become  the  entertainer,  and 
soon  was  cast  in  the  lead  of  the  school  play. 
Even  here,  there  was  early  heartbreak  for 
Peg.  Shortly  before  the  performance,  she 
came  down  with  a  bad  cold.  "My  family 
couldn't  afford  to  send  for  the  doctor,"  says 
Peggy,  "so  I  even  had  to  miss  out  on  this 
show.  But  I  didn't  give  up.  I  had  learned 
every  line  in  that  play — it  wasn't  going  to 
be  wasted.  My  mother  understood.  She 
helped  me  gather  makeshift  props  at  home 
and,  with  her  and  Dad  as  an  audience,  I 
did  the  show — played  all  the  parts,  moved 
every  prop,  everything!" 

Peggy's  parents,  Margaret  and  Floyd 
King,  always  felt  their  daughter  had  great 
talent,  but  they  seldom  encouraged  her 
toward  a  show -business  career.  They 
felt  that,  to  succeed,  "You  had  to  know 
somebody."  As  Peggy  grew  older,  still 
holding  fast  to  her  movie -star  dream,  her 
father  would  gently  discourage  her,  saying, 
"Baby,  don't  dream  beyond  your  means." 

In  spite  of  her  father's  continued  dis- 
couragement, Peggy  went  right  on  dream- 
ing: "I  can't  remember  the  time  when  I 
didn't  want  a  career.  I  have  always  want- 
ed to  sing  and  act.  I  have  to  sing  and  act 
— I  have  to  perform.  I  would  sacrifice  al- 
most anything  to  do  this,  because  it  is  part 
of  me — the  biggest  part  of  me." 

It  wasn't  until  after  her  first  big  break 
with  Charlie  Spivak's  band  that  Peggy  un- 
derstood the  reason  behind  her  family's 
discouragement  of  her  dreams.  Her  father 
told   her   then,   "I   always   knew   you   had 


the  talent.  Peg.  But  I  hated  to  think  that 
if  you  continued  to  try — and  failed — some- 
day you'd  end  up  with  a  broken  heart." 

Peggy's  family  had  always  had  great 
faith  in  her.  It  was  only  out  of  this  sense 
of  protection  that  they  had  tried  to  dis- 
suade her.  Peggy  says,  "In  spite  of  the 
discouragement — which  I  now  understand 
— I  think  my  parents  did  a  great  job  with 
me.  We  may  have  been  poor — that  was  a 
big  enough  obstacle  for  them  to  overcome 
— but  what  we  lacked  in  money  we  made 
up  in  love." 

From  her  experience,  Peggy  learned  that 
it's  not  only  good  to  dream  big  dreams,  but 
even  more  important  to  be  specific  about 
those  dreams,  knowing  what  you  want, 
right  down  to  the  smallest  detail.  This 
helps  you  realize  your  dreams,  because  it 
puts  first  things  first.  For  instance,  Peggy 
saw  that,  if  she  were  to  become  a  profes- 
sional singer,  she  must  first  have  a  ward- 
robe. Wardrobes  cost  money.  Where  was 
the  money  coming  from? 

Following  high  school  graduation,  Peg 
went  to  Bohacker's  Business  College  in 
Ravenna.  She  worked  then  as  a  secre- 
tary, continuing  to  sing  "at  all  the  doings, 
and  with  small  bands."  At  one  of  these 
affairs,  she  was  spotted  and  signed — at 
seventeen — for  her  first  professional  date  at 
the  Bronze  Room  of  the  Cleveland  Hotel  in 
Cleveland.  But  she  still  didn't  have  enough 
money  for  a  wardrobe  .  .  .  and  here's 
where  the  Cinderella  story  began  to  come 
true  for  Peggy.  Every  Cinderella  has  a 
fairy  godmother.  Peggy's  was  Miss  Sorki, 
the  owner  of  a  small  Ravenna  dress  shop. 
Miss  Sorki  had  great  faith  in  Peggy's 
ability,  too,  and  for  Peggy's  first  job  ad- 
vanced her  three  gowns. 

"With  my  first  pair  of  high-heeled 
shoes,"  says  Peggy,  "and  my  three  bor- 
rowed dresses,  I  began  my  professional 
career."  Peggy,  at  this  point,  was  very 
much  like  Cinderella — if  she  had  lost  one 
of  those  slippers,  she'd  have  been  out  of 
a  job!  She  stretched  her  wardrobe  by 
changing  the  three  dresses  around  each 
night,  adding  flowers  and  different  acces- 
sories. Peggy  never  forgot  Miss  Sorki's 
help,  though  it  is  only  recently  that  she 
has  been  able  to  fully  repay  her  first  fairy 
godmother. 

The  low  spot  in  Cinderella's  own  story 
always  comes  when  she's  returned  to  the 
scullery.  In  Peggy's  life,  this  moment  had 
to  come,  too.  Not  long  after  she  started 
singing  in  the  Bronze  Room,  she  also  won 
a  job  on  Cleveland's  radio  station  WGAR, 
as  the  result  of  a  contest.  Peggy  found 
herself  riding  a  wave  of  success— tu>o  jobs 
at  once! — though  she  had  to  work  harder 
than  any  storybook  Cinderella:  After  her 
2  A.M.  singing  chore  at  the  hotel,  Peggy 
arose  at  8  A.M.  daily  for  the  Open  House 
show  on  WGAR. 

Then  the  ax  fell.  Peggy  lost  both  jobs 
at  once.  During  this  despondent  period, 
she  returned  home  to  Ravenna.  But  she 
continued  to  tell  herself,  "I've  dreamed 
along  this  far  .  .  .  and  I'm  not  going  to 
give  up  now."  With  her  last  five  dollars, 
and  some  money  borrowed  from  her  par- 
ents, she  started  off  again  for  Cleveland 
to  make  the  rounds. 

Again,  fate  stepped  in — as  it  must,  in 
every  Cinderella  story.  First,  Peggy  missed 
her  connecting  bus  to  Cleveland  and  had 
to  stay  overnight  in  Akron.  Then  she  re- 
membered that  Akron  was  her  parents' 
honeymoon  town,  and  she  searched  out 
the  little  hotel  she'd  so  often  heard  them 
speak  about.  Next,  while  at  the  hotel, 
she  picked  up  the  evening  paper  and  read 
that  a  previous  Cleveland  friend,  whistler 
Fred  Lowrey,  was  performing  at  the  large 
Akron    hotel    directly    across    the    street. 


Lowrey  had  heard  Peggy  at  the  Bronze 
Room  and  had  written  a  glowing  letter  to 
his  friend,  bandleader  Charlie  Spivak. 

Feeling  lonely,  Peggy  called  Fred  and 
his  wife.  They  immediately  invited  her 
over,  and  Fred  asked  her  to  stay  an  extra 
day  to  see  his  show.  It  was  at  6  P.M.  of 
this  second  day  that  the  phone  rang.  It 
was  Charlie  Spivak.  He  was  in  town  for 
a  one-nighter,  he  had  received  Fred's  let- 
ter— he  wanted  to  see  Peggy  about  a  job! 

When  Peggy  signed  with  Spivak,  she 
thought  her  Cinderella  dream  was  truly 
coming  within  reach — for  his  band  was 
world  renowned — but  there  were  still 
some  four  or  five  years  of  struggle  ahead 
of  her.  After  eight  months  with  Spivak. 
Peggy  was  film-tested  at  Twentieth  Cen- 
tury-Fox. Everyone  encouraged  the  move. 
But  nothing  came  of  the  test,  and  Peggy 
once  again  found  herself  playing  small 
club  dates  in  Cleveland.  It  seemed  to  her 
then  that,  for  every  step  she  took  up  the 
ladder  of  success,  she  slipped  back  two. 

X  rince  Charming  came  into  Cinderella's 
life  at  this  time,  in  the  person  of  Knobby 
Lee,  a  young  trumpet  player  with  Ralph 
Flannagan's  band.  Peggy,  too,  signed  with 
Flannagan.  She  says:  "When  I  was  intro- 
duced to  the  members  of  the  band  that 
first  day,  I  thought  Knobby  was  cute.  The 
second  and  third  day,  I  really  began  to 
look  at  him.  And,  on  the  fourth  day,  I 
decided  he  was  the  man  I  would  marry! 

"This  is  how  it  happened:  The  first  night 
we  travelled  four  hundred  miles  on  the 
bus — you  can't  help  getting  to  know  some- 
one well  when  you  sit  beside  him  from 
StillweU,  Oklahoma,  all  the  way  to  Phoe- 
nix, Arizona!  Knobby  made  his  first  big 
impression  when  everybody  woke  up  the 
next  morning  and  he  was  the  only  one  on 
the  bus  who  wasn't  grouchy.  The  second 
morning  his  rating  went  even  higher  in 
my  book,  when  he  said,  'Are  you  still 
tired?  Can  I  get  something  for  you?'  It 
isn't  hard  to  see  how  I  knew  by  the  fourth 
day  that  Knobby  Lee  was  the  man  for  me!" 

Once  again,  Peggy's  dream  was  coming 
within  reach.  She  and  Knobby  went  to 
New  York  with  Flannagan's  band.  Thsn 
she  sang  with  Mel  Torme,  did  the  first  col- 
or TV  tests  at  NBC,  and  was  again  spotted 
by  the  studios,  this  time  by  M-G-M.     In 

1952,  she  went  to  the  West  Coast  for  tests. 
And,  this  time,  she  was  signed  by  the 
studio,  beginning  immediately  to  study 
dramatics,  dancing  and  singing  in  their 
classes.  "The  Post  Office  Department," 
says  Peggy,  "needed  extra  help  in  Culver 
City  and  New  York  to  handle  the  mail 
Knobby  and  I  sent  back  and  forth." 

Six  months  later,  after  working  toward 
his  tmion  card  in  New  York,  Knobby  came 
to  Hollywood.  They  were  thinking  seri- 
ously of  marriage,  when  Peggy  went  to 
Korea  to  entertain  the  troops  over  Christ- 
mas, 1952 — and,  once  more,  the  ladder 
seemed  to  have  been  pulled  out  from 
under  her.  Korea  was  colder  than  the 
snowdrifts  in  Ravenna,  Ohio,  had  ever 
been.  Entertaining  the  troops  on  open 
stages,  with  the  thermometer  dipping  to 
five  below  zero,  was  too  much  for  Peggy. 
But  she  sang  for  the  boys  in  khaki  up  to 
the  day  she  passed  out. 

Peggy  was  so  sick  she  very  nearly  died. 
Confined  to  her  room  in  Tokyo's  Imperial 
Hotel,  she  desperately  fought  the  virus 
which  nearly  robbed  her  of  her  hearing. 
Debbie  Reynolds,  Peggy's  close  friend, 
stayed  with  her  in  Japan,  nursing  her  back 
to  health. 

Cinderella  and  her  Prince  Charming 
finally  got  together  on  Peggy's  return  in 

1953.  Their  marriage  took  place  February 
2,  in  the  Little  Brown  Church  in  San 
Fernando  Valley,  attended  by  a  small 
gathering  of  friends.  "We  only  knew  about 
thirty  people  at  the  time,'"  says  Peggy. 
■'Since  my  father  wasn't  able  to  be  here, 


New! 
DEODORANT   DISCOVERY 

Now  safely  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day! 


Proved  in  comparison  tests  mode  by  a 
doctor.  A  deodorant  without  M-3,  tested 
under  one  arm,  stopped  odor  only  a  few 
hours.  Yet  New  MuM  with  M-3,  under  other 
arm,  stopped  odor  24  hours  !  M-3  clings  to 
skin,  destroys  odor  bacteria  all  day  long. 

New  MUM 


New  MUM  with  M-3  won't  irritate  normal 
skin  or  damage  fabrics.  Originally  a  doc- 
tor's formula,  New  MuM  contains  no  harsh 
astringents,  will  not  block  pores  or  rot  fab- 
rics. Creamier,  won't  dry  out  in  jar.  Use 
New  Mum  daily. 


cream  deodorant 
with  long-lasting  M-3 

(hexachlorophene) 


';;■ 

Anoihi.T  finf  Product 
of  Bristol-Myers 


Elsa  Maxwell's 
Etiquette  Book 

This  Famous  Hostess  Writes   About    Good   Manners 


Elsa  Maxwell 


Good  manners  are  one  of 
the  greatest  personal  as- 
sets you  can  possess. 
Good  jobs,  new  friends, 
romance,  and  the  chance 
to  influence  people  can  be 
won  with  good  manners. 
Ladies  and  gentlemen  are 
always  welcome  .  .  .  any- 
where. And  the  most 
encouraging    thing    about 

good  manners  is  that  anyone  can  possess 

them. 

Go   Places — With  Good  Manners 

Elsa  Maxwell's  new  book  is  different 
from  the  usual  dry-as-dust  etiquette 
volume.  It's  gay!  It's  up-to-date!  It's  just 
chock-full  of  the  type  of  information  you 
can  put  to  immediate  use.  It  brings  you 
a  thorough  social  education,  that  will 
enable  you  to  live  a  richer,  happier  life. 
Here  in  clear,  straightforward  language 
are  the  answers  to  all  your  everyday  eti- 
quette problems.  Here  you  find  importcint 
suggestions  on  good  manners  in  restau- 
rants— in  church — in  the  theatre — on  the 
street — and  when  you  travel. 
In  this  book  Elsa  Maxwell  covers  every 
phase  of  engagements  and  weddings.  Here 
is  everything  you  need  to  know  about  in- 


vitations, gifts,  the  wedding  dress,  the 
attendants,  the  reception,  etc.  The  bride 
who  follows  the  suggestions  contained  in 
this  up-to-date  book  need  have  no  wed- 
ding fears.  She  will  be  radiant  in  the 
knowledge  that  her  wedding  is  correct  in 
every  detail. 


ONLY  $1.00 


You  owe  it  to  yourself 
to  have  the  information 
contained  in  Elsa  Max- 
well's Etiquette  Book. 
The  price  of  this  splen- 
did book  is  only  $1.00 
postpaid.  Order  TODAY. 


«■ —  " —i 

BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE,    INC..  Dept.  RM-755  ■ 
205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  ELSA  MAX- 
WELL'S ETIQUETTE  BOOK.  I  enclose 
$1.00. 

NAME 

Please   Print 

STREET 

CITY 

STATE 

I.........----.....--...--.. 


SURVEY  SHOWS  ANSWERS  FROM 


82 
mi 


NUKoto  suggest 

DOUCHING  ^,h 
ZONITE/or 

feminine  hygiene 

Brides-to-Be  and  Married  Women 
Should  Know  These  Intimate  Facts 

Every  well-informed  woman  who 
values  her  health,  physical  charm 
and  married  happiness,  knows  how 
necessary  a  cleansing,  deodorizing 
douche  is  for  intimate  feminine  clean- 
liness and  after  monthly  periods. 
Douching  has  become  such  an  es- 
sential practice  in  the  modern  way  of 
life,  another  survey  showed  that  of 
the  married  women  asked — 83.3% 
douche  after  monthly  periods  and 
86.5%  at  other  times. 

It's  a  great  assurance  for  women  to 
know  that  zonite  is  so  highly  thought 
of  among  these  nurses.  Scientific  tests 
PROVED  no  other  type  liquid  anti- 
septic-germicide for  the  douche  of  all 
those  tested  is  so  powerfully  ef- 
fective yet  so  SAFE  to  body  tissues. 

ZONITE's  Many  Advantages 

ZONITE  is  a  powerful  antiseptic- 
germicide  yet  is  positively  non-poi- 
sonous, non-irritating.  You  can  use 
it  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A  zonite 
douche  immediately  washes  away 
germs  and  waste  deposits. 
It  effectively  deodorizes  and 
leaves  you  with  a  wonderful 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence— so  refreshed  and 
dainty.  Inexpensive — zonite 
costs  only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 


es  away 
w/mm- 


ZONITE— the  Ideal  'ALL-PURPOSE' 
Antiseptic-Germicide 


Mr.  Reynolds,  Debbie's  father,  gave  me 
away,  and  Debbie  stood  up  with  me. 

"At  the  church,  poor  Knobby  thought  I'd 
changed  my  mind.  He  was  left  waiting 
at  the  altar  for  eighteen  minutes — we  were 
halfway  there,  with  Mr.  Reynolds  driving, 
when  Debbie  remembered  we'd  left  the 
flowers  at  home!  We  were  all  so  anxious 
to  get  back  to  the  church,  that  Mr.  Rey- 
nolds accidentally  drove  up  on  the  lawn." 

Although  M-G-M  dropped  Peggy  after 
her  return  from  Korea,  she  had  agreed  to 
go  on  one  of  their  tours — so  Jimmy  Stew- 
art, Vera-Ellen,  Bob  Ryan  and  about 
thirty  other  people  were  on  Peggy's  and 
Knobby's  five-day  honeymoon  flight  to 
Denver.  Romance  wasn't  exactly  proceed- 
ing in  traditional  storybook  style.  But,  in 
real  life,  Peggy's  Cinderella  story  was  just 
about  to  come  true. 

And  it  wasn't  a  pumpkin  that  did  it. 
It  was  a  can  of  tomato  sauce!  After  re- 
cording the  now-famous  Hunt's  commer- 
cial jingle,  which  was  immediately  a  great 
hit  with  listeners,  Peggy  was  called  by 
Columbia's  vice-president,  Mitch  Miller. 
But,  when  he  introduced  himself  over  the 
phone,  Peggy  thought  she  was  being  kid- 
ded. "Oh,  yes?"  she  said,  "And  this  is 
Snow  White!" 

What  she  should  have  said  was:  "This 
is  Cinderella."  Peggy's  first  record  with 
Columbia  was  "The  Hottentot  Song,"  an- 
other immediate  success. 

It  was  then  that  Peggy  had  to  make  a 
momentous  decision.  "I  was  offered  a 
huge  sum  of  money  for  a  program  of  cross- 
country exploitation,"  she  says.  "It  was 
a  question  of  that — or  an  offer  to  sing  on 
a  new  television  show."  The  new  program 
was  The  George  Gobel  Show,  which  had 
not  yet  been  seen  by  the  American  public. 

Peggy  naturally  discussed  the  decision 
with  Knobby.  They  had  long  ago  reached 
the  point  in  their  marriage  where  they  did 
not  give  one  another  advice  in  regard  to 
their  careers.  "In  a  marriage  which  in- 
volves two  careers  like  ours,"  says  Peggy, 
"you  cannot  be  running  around  giving  ad- 
vice to  each  other.  I  learned  this  early 
from  Knobby,  when  I  wanted  to  sign  with 
an  agency.  He  felt  that  I  shouldn't,  be- 
cause of  his  own  experience  with  them. 
But  he  told  me  to  go  ahead,  because  if  I 
didn't  sign — and  then  lost  out  on  some  big 
job — I  might  think  it  was  because  I  hadn't 
joined  the  agency.  So  Knobby  said,  'For 
your  peace  of  mind,  sign.'  I  did,  and  it 
turned  out  to  be  very  bad  .  .  .  and  I  had 
nobody  to  blame  but  myself. 

"So  Knobby  and  I  'discussed'  taking  the 
George  Gohel  Show  offer,  but  he  made  me 
make  the  decision  on  my  own.  He  did 
point  out  that  being  seen  once  a  week  on 
network  TV  was  more  important  than 
anything  else — including  the  fantastic  offer 
I  already  had.  Knobby  Uked  the  idea  of 
the  Gobel  show,  but  the  decision  was  still 
mine. 

"And  now,"  says  Peggy,  "suppose  Knob- 
by had  advised  me  not  to  take  the  Gobel 
show,  and  the  girl  who  took  it  had  every- 
thing happen  to  her  that  has  happened  to 
me!  Then  what  would  I  have  done  .  .  .? 
Well,"  she  says  in  mock  seriousness,  "I'd 
probably  have  shot  him!" 

Actually,  there  was  more  than  a  touch 
of  magic  in  the  way  Peggy  was  signed  for 
the  George  Gobel  Show.  George,  who  was 
then  unknown  to  TV,  had  been  looking 
for  a  singer  for  his  upcoming  show,  but 
hadn't  wanted  to  audition  some  300  sing- 
ers, explaining:  "After  the  first  three, 
they  all  begin  to  sound  alike." 

It  was  while  George  was  in  Chicago 
that  Cinderella  Peggy's  second  fairy  god- 
mother, Ethel  Daccardo,  columnist  on  the 
Chicago  Daily  News,  heard  Peggy  sing. 
Knowing  that  George  was  looking  for  a 
songstress,  she  suggested  to  George  they 
get  together.     "Have  you  heard  this  little 


girl  named  Peggy  King?"  she  asked  George 
one  day  over  lunch. 

"No,"  said  George,  "I  haven't." 

"Well,"  said  Columnist  Deccardo,  "you're 
in  luck.  She's  guesting  on  The  Saturday 
Night  Review." 

"All  right,"  said  George,  "I'll  watch  her." 
In  the  meantime,  George  listened  to  Peg- 
gy's recording  of  "Hottentot,"  liked  it,  and 
— fortunately  for  Peggy — her  two  numbers 
on  the  Review  were,  as  she  says,  "good 
for  me."  After  the  show,  George  called 
his  producers,  saying,  "Get  Peggy  King  .  .  . 
I  want  her  for  the  show."  Peggy  was 
signed — although  she'd  never  met  George. 

Their  first  meeting  took  place  later  in 
Hollywood,  at  Mike  Lyman's  restaurant. 
Peggy  says:  "I'd  been  rehearsing  all 
morning — I  was  a  physical  wreck.  But, 
when  I  walked  in  and  saw  this  darling 
little  face,  I  knew  I'd  made  the  right  de- 
cision!" 

Today,  as  a  result  of  the  George  Gobel 
Show,  Peggy  and  Knobby  are  settled  in 
their  own  little  North  Hollywood  home. 
Knobby  is  a  member  of  the  Liberace  band, 
but — since  the  latter  is  on  the  road  only 
two  or  three  times  a  year — he  and  Peg 
are  together  constantly. 

"In  fact,"  says  Peggy,  "we're  the  great- 
est 'together'  family  you've  ever  seen.  We 
paint.  We  practice.  Knobby  plays  his 
trumpet  for  me — it's  the  only  rehearsal 
I  get,  music-wise.  We  shop  for  furniture 
together.  I'm  a  great  one  for  decorating — 
I  even  like  to  decorate  the  closets!  Knob- 
by is  responsible  for  the  outside  of  the 
house — he's  got  a  sea-green  thumb.  If  / 
get  near  the  flowers,  they  die.  As  for 
'family,'  we've  got  Mr.  McGoo,  our  short- 
haired  miniature  dachshund,  and  tem- 
porarily we  also  have  the  long-haired 
Brunhilde.  We  took  Brunhilde  as  a  gift 
for  Arthur  Hamilton  (he  wrote  my  new 
record,  'Any  Questions?')  then  found  that 
Arthur  was  allergic  to  long-hair  dogs! 
Now  that  she's  been  with  us  for  a  few 
weeks,  I'm  trying  to  figure  out  some  way 
for  us  to  keep  her.  Our  business  manager 
says  she's  too  expensive  for  us  to  keep. 
But  Knobby  has  a  birthday  coming  up; 
maybe  I  can  swing  it  that  way. 

"We've  fallen  in  love  with  Brunhilde. 
Knobby  says  now,  that  if  Brunhilde  goes, 
he  goes  with  her.  I'm  sorry  to  say  that 
Mr.  McGoo  is  unimpressed.  He  spent  all 
last  week  sleeping  outside,  under  Knobby's 
rose  bushes.  Brunhilde  has  her  bed  in- 
side." 

As  for  a  family,  Peggy  says,  "Yes,  Knob- 
by and  I  want  children  very  badly." 

Children  are  very  definitely  part  of 
Peggy's  dream.  And  there  is  one  other 
part  of  her  dream  which  hasn't  been 
realized:  Peggy  still  wants  to  be  a  movie 
star.  If  her  recent  test  at  Paramount  is 
any  measure,  Peggy's  dream  will  soon 
come  true.  It's  hard  for  her  to  realize 
that  her  already  hard-earned  success  as 
a  television  singing  star  has  made  her  as 
popular  with  the  fans  as  one  hundred  mo- 
tion pictures  could.  This  was  proved  on 
the  night  of  the  Academy  Awards,  when 
she  was  chosen  to  sing  "Count  Your 
Blessings"  on  NBC's  Oscar  show.  The 
moment  she  stepped  from  the  car  into  the 
mob  of  stars  in  the  foyer  of  Hollywood's 
Pantages  Theater,  the  fans  raised  a  great 
cry  of  "There's  Peggy  King!"  The  pho- 
tographers clamored  for  pictures  and  more 
pictures.  As  Peggy  says:  "I  was  just  there 
to  sing  ...  I  hadn't  even  figured  on  being 
recognized!" 

"Dreaming  beyond  her  means"  has  paid 
fairy-tale  dividends  to  Peggy.  Cinderella- 
like, she  has  had  hard  work  and  disap- 
pointment in  her  struggle  for  success,  but 
she  has  always  kept  the  grand  dreams 
foremost  in  her  mind.  For  Peggy  King, 
the  grandest  dreams  have  developed  a 
happy  habit  of  coming  true. 


Honeymoon  in  the  Sun 

{Continued  from  page  51) 
handed  us   on   a  platter,  for  free.  Miami. 
Nassau,  Havana.  .  .  ." 

"As  a  matter  of  fact,  ifs  Miami  Beach 
and  the  Sea  Isle  Hotel— period— and  five 
shows  to  do.  This  is  a  honeymoon?" 

"Oh,  you  don't  work  ail  the  time.  Just 
being  away  from  New  York  together  is  a 
honeymoon,"  said  Jayne. 

That,  in  essence,  is  why  you  watched 
Steve  Allen's  Tonight  show  telecasting 
from  the  pool  and  private  beach  of  the 
Sea  Isle  in  Miami  Beach  during  the  sec- 
ond week  in  January,  and  incidentally 
caught  some  of  the  most  famous  acts  in 
show  business — acts  which  would  have 
cost  you  a  fortune  in  night-club  tabs  to 
see  and  hear. 

Since  I  was  in  Miami  that  week,  the  edi- 
tor of  TV  Radio  Mirror  wired  me  to  hurry 
over  to  the  Sea  Isle  and  find  out  how 
Steve  and  Jayne  were  faring.  The  story 
published  just  after  their  marriage  had 
deplored  the  fact  that  the  Aliens  had  not 
had  time  for  a  proper  honeymoon.  Now, 
though  belatedly,  a  sequel  to  that  story 
was  obviously  indicated. 

At  the  Sea  Isle,  I  was  whisked  ten 
stories  to  the  desert  of  rooftop  high  above 
the  Miami  Beach  waters.  "Just  follow  the 
path  to  Penthouse  A,"  the  elevator  oper- 
ator instructed,  and  sank  abruptly  out  of 
sight.  Across  acres  of  gravel,  I  followed  a 
boardwalk  to  a  gate  in  a  cypress  fence, 
trucked  on  through,  and  found  Penthouse 
A,  a  fenced  and  patioed  bungalow  straight 
out  of  the  latest  architects'  annual. 

As  befitted  a  suite  which,  during  the 
fifty-five-day  Miami  Beach  season,  would 
rent  for  several  hundred  dollars  a  day, 
this  one  had  an  enormous  living  room 
complete  with  everything — including  an 
indoor  garden — a  kitchen  and  bath,  bed- 
room and  dressing  room,  and  a  solarium - 
patio  the  size  of  most  people's  back  yards, 
all  walled  for  privacy  so  that  the  occu- 
pants could  get  tanned  all  over,  if  they 
chose  to  do  so. 

In  the  bathroom,  Jayne,  clad  in  a  light 
blue  bathing  suit  and  a  smidgen  of  a 
sweater,  was  washing  out  a  pair  of  Steve's 
shorts  in  the  basin.  Another  pair  hung 
from  the  shower  rod.  "Hi,"  she  said.  "I'm 
just  beating  the  laundry  situation — he 
didn't  bring  enough  shorts.  He's  out  there 
in  the  siui.  Holler  if  you  guys  want  tea  or 
anything." 

Steve,  in  swim  trunks,  was  basking  on 
a  lawn  couch.  They  were  having  their 
honeymoon,  all  right. 

Steve  looked  as  if  he  had  nothing  more 
on  his  mind  than  the  magazine  he  was 
holding.  And,  as  I  sat  down,  I  could  hear 
Jayne  singing  merrily  as  she  sudsed  away 
at  his  shorts.  She  had  spent  three  days  in 
Nassau,  preceding  Steve  because  he  was 
tied  up  with  the  show  and  business  mat- 
ters, then  had  flown  to  Miami  to  join  him. 

Steve's  earlier  prediction  that,  with  five 
consecutive  shows  to  do,  he  wouldn't  have 
time  to  play  at  a  honeymoon  turned  out 
to  be  wrong.  The  talent  that  happened  to 
be  in  town  at  the  time — Milton  Berle, 
Gordon  MacRae,  Henny  Youngman,  Debbie 
Reynolds,  Vaughn  Monroe,  Gene  Baylos, 
George  DeWitt,  Patti  Page,  and  dozens  of 
other  top  stars — had  all  been  so  generous 
with  their  time  that  Steve  had  hardly  had 
to  work  at  all.  Evenings,  he'd  kicked  the 
show  around  with  his  writers  and  di- 
rectors until  show  time,  then  just  let  it 
roll.  This  had  left  Steve  and  Jayne  the 
daylight  hours  for  just  txm.  and  relaxation. 

"Of  course,"  Jayne  explained,  "he  got 
off  to  a  typical  Allen  start.  No  sleep  the 
night  before  he  got  here — because  he  can't 
sleep  on  planes.  Then  a  day  of  confer- 
ences. And  then,  when  anybody  else  would 


^^'^:j^^. 


LORI 


It  sparkles  your  natural 
hair  color  with  gleaming  color- 
highlights.  Gives  silken  lustre,  alluring  softness. 
Rinses  in  —  shampoos  out!    12  beautiful 
shades.  6  rinses  25c,  14  rinses  50?!. 


Colortint  adds  rich,  exciting  new  color!  So  much 

more  than  a  rinse  — but  not  a  permanent  dye! 

Hides   gray   hairs  .  .  .  blends-in   bleached, 

streaked  or  dyed  hair.  Lanolin-enriched 

to  condition  as  it  colors.  Choose 

from  10  enchanting  shades. 

6  capsules  29?;,  14  capsules  50tf. 


-^wa?- 


COLORTI 

Gorgeous  Yearbook  Contains  All  Your  Favorite 

TV-Radio  Stars 

The  gorgeous  new  TV-RADIO  ANNUAL  is  ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

now  available  to  you.  This  exciting  1955  year  •  TV-RADIO  MIRROR                        "^P+-  RM-755« 

book  is  better  than  ever!  It  covers  all  the  2205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.                     • 

Television    and   Radio    events    of   the    year.  ,Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  TV-RADIO. 

You'll  enjoy  the  hundreds  of  new  illustra-  .  ANNUAL  1955.  I  enclose  50c.                        « 

tions  and  you'll  be  simply  thrilled  to  read  «                                                                                 * 

the    behind-the-scenes    stories    of    all    your       •p°"fVrint * 

favorite  stars.  Below  is  a  brief  description  *  AJAr  <:«'"                                                                * 

of  this  really  important  Annual:  .Aoaress , 

m  City State 

NEWS   EVENTS  OF   THE  YEAR— The  behind-the-scenes         ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

stories  of  Eve  Arden  and  Brooks  West  •  Anne  Jeffreys  and 
Robert  Sterling  •  Florence  Halop  •  Bob  Smith  •  Paul 
Di-ion  •  Steve  Allen  and  Jayne  Meadows  •  Wally  Co.':  • 
Jack  Webb    •    Hilton   Berle. 


NEW  SHOWS  OF  THE  YEAR— Stars  new  and  old,  who 
helped  make  recent  history.  Robert  Q.  Lewis  •  Sid 
Caesar  •  Imogene  Coca  •  Florian  ZaBach  •  Edgar  Bergen 

•  George  Gobel  •  Jack  Paar  •  Betty  White  •  Michael 
O'Shea  •  James  Dunn  •  William  Bishop  •  Eddie  ilayehoft 

•  Gil  Stratton  Jr. 

WHO'S  WHO  ON— Breakfast  Club  •   Father  Knows  Best 

•  Beat  Tlie  Clock  •  Two  For  The  Money  •  The  Garry 
Moore  Show  •  Your  Hit  Parade  •  The  Halls  Of  Ivy  •  Our 
Miss  Brooks  •  Masquerade  Party  •  My  Favorite  Hus- 
band •  Fibber  McGee  and  Molly  •  Lassie  •  The  Big 
Payoff   •   The  Jackie  Gleason   Show. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES— Arthur  Godfrey  .  Ozzie  and 
Harriet  Nelson  •  Ralph  Edwards  •  Bert  Parks  •  Ten- 
nessee Ernie  Ford  •  Warren  Hull  •  Bill  CuUen  •  Boy 
Rogers  •  Gene  Autry  •  Red  Buttons  •  Jack  Bailey  • 
Jack  Barry  •  Ed  Sullivan  •  Art  Linkletter  •  Donald 
O'Connor  •   Jimmy  Durante   •   Tom  Moore. 

GORGEOUS  NEW  COLOR  PORTRAITS  OF  THE  STARS 

— Thrilling  4-color  photographs  of  Liberace  •  Lucille 
Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz  •  Eddie  Fisher  •  Gale  Storm.  These 
full  page,  true-to-life  portraits  are  so  unusual  that  you 
will  want  to  frame  each  one  of  theml 

PLUS — Pictures  and  biographies  from  the  most  beloved 
daytime  dramas  on  radio  and  TV. 


ONLY  50(t 
WHILE 
THEY  LAST 

This  sensational 
Yearbook  sells  out 
practically  as  soon 
as  it  IS  put  on 
sale.  Don't  be  dis- 
appointed this 
year — mail  coupon 
above  with  50e — 
today  I 


T 
V 
R 

83 


PERIODIC    PAIN 

It's  downright  foolish  to  suffer  in 
silence  every  month.  Let  Midol's 
3-way  action  bring  you  complete 
relief  from  functional  menstrual 
distress.  Just  take  a  Midol  tablet 
with  a  glass  of  water ,  .  .  that's 
all.  Midol  relieves  cramps,  eases 
headache  and  chases  the"blues." 


"WHATWOMEN  WANTTO   KNOW" 

a  24-page  book  explaining  menstruation  is 
yours,  FREE.  Write  Dept.  B-75,  Box  280, 
New  York  18,  N.  Y.  (Sent  in  plain  wrapper). 


84 


fall  into  bed,  he  accepts  an  invitation  to 
the  fights — and,  furthermore,  takes  most 
of  the  staff  with  him,  so  nobody  gets  in 
until  dawn.  But  he's  a  big  boy,  and  I  guess 
he  can  take  it." 

Steve  seemed  to  be  taking  it  very  well 
indeed.  That  very  day,  for  example,  he'd 
gotten  up  at  nine  (after  some  late  night- 
clubbing  earlier  that  morning)  and,  roust- 
ing a  sleepy-eyed  Jayne  out  of  bed,  had 
led  her  down  to  the  surf  in  front  of  the 
hotel.  There  they  found  some  pedal-boats, 
individual  sea -scooters  with  a  paddle  in 
back  which  are  operated  the  same  way  as 
a  bicycle. 

Ordinarily,  these  temperamental  little 
machines  are  used  in  a  pool  or  quiet  la- 
goon, but  Steve  thought  it  would  be  fun 
to  try  them  in  the  surf.  He  and  Jayne 
capsized  two  or  three  times  before  they 
made  it  beyond  the  waves  and  into  the 
quieter,  clear  green  depths  of  the  Atlantic 
offshore.  Let  us  leave  them  there  in  the 
sun,  paddling  about  and  looking  down  at 
the  pretty  little  fishes,  for  a  while.  .  .  . 

And  now,  after  a  suitable  lapse  of  time, 
let  us  journey  once  again  to  the  Sea  Isle 
to  witness,  in  person,  one  of  Steve's  To- 
night shows:  I  walked  through  the  chic 
lobby  and  out  into  the  pool  area — and 
found  bedlam.  What  I  remembered,  from 
a  previous  visit,  as  a  casual  pool  and  ca- 
bana area — with  the  beach  beyond  (and 
beyond  that,  Atlantic  Ocean  stretching 
straight  to  Africa)  — was  now  a  writhing 
welter  of  cables,  seething  with  technicians 
and  audience.  After  a  sunny  day,  the  eve- 
ning had  gone  cool — well,  it  was  down  as 
far  as  fifty-seven,  and  everyone  was  wear- 
ing jackets  and  mink  coats.  People  who 
had  braved  a  27-degree  temperature  in 
New  York,  only  twelve  hours  before,  now 
shivered  and  cursed  the  unseasonable 
weather. 

Milton  Berle  came  out,  frankly  engulfed 
in  a  topcoat,  and  did  a  stint  for  Steve. 
(Said  Steve,  "Milton  may  be  wearing  a 
topcoat,  but  I'm  wearing  sport  clothes — 
lots  of  'em.  But  I'm  darned  if  I'm  going  to 
wear  a  topcoat,  sifter  everything  the  Miami 
Chamber  of  Commerce  has  done  for  us. 
After  all!") 

Ihen  Steve  introduced  George  DeWitt, 
a  veteran  and  famous  comedian  from  a 
near-by  Miami  Beach  night  club.  DeWitt, 
clad  in  a  $350  suit  just  delivered  from  his 
New  York  tailor,  chose  to  do  his  stint  on 
the  low  diving  board.  Perhaps  because  of 
the  chill  weather,  the  laughs  were  slow  in 
coming  and  he  began  working  harder  and 
harder  for  them.  He  worked  himself  right 
off  the  end  of  the  diving  board,  in  fact,  and 
I  can  still  see  the  look  of  utter  astonish- 
ment on  his  face  as  he  disappeared  below 
camera  range.  The  suit  was  a  total  loss, 
but  to  date  Steve  has  received  no  bill  for 
it.  That's  pretty  typical  of  the  entertainers 
who  lent  him  their  services.  If  they  gave 
at  all,  they  gave  their  all. 

The  problems  caused  by  running  two 
major  network  shows  (Garroway's  Today 
as  well  as  Steve  Allen's  Tonight)  simul- 
taneously, from  the  same  hotel,  are  best 
described  by  the  Sea  Isle's  press  agent, 
Sam  Kaplan.  When  I  caught  up  with  him 
he  was  a  spent  and  beaten  man. 

"Crazy,"  he  said,  "just  crazy."  Of  course, 
he  and  the  management  had  spent  weeks 
making  plans  so  nothing  could  possibly  go 
wrong.  "They  had  arranged  with  the  phone 
company  for  thirty  extra  trunk  lines  and 
fifteen  extra  operators  to  handle  additional 
calls.  They  had  worked  out  a  security  pro- 
gram to  screen  visitors  and  keep  crowds 
of  the  curious  from  bothering  the  artists. 
Then  they  sent  a  note  to  the  hotel's  resi- 
dent guests,  telling  them  how  lucky  they 
were  to  be  sitting  in  on  this  great  show- 
business  event,  and  politely  asking  their 
cooperation. 

The  guests  weren't  so  sure  who  was  co- 


operating with  whom,  the  next  morning  at 
4  A.M.,  when  pandemonium  broke  loose  in 
the  skies  above  them.  It  was  merely  a  jet 
pilot  and  a  helicopter  rehearsing  for  one 
of  the  shows,  but  it  was  the  end  of  sleep 
for  that  night,  and  from  then  on  the  guests 
had  the  privilege  of  paying  twenty  to  forty 
dollars  a  day  to  live  in  the  swankiest  tele- 
vision studio  in  the  world. 

Because  that's  what  it  became  for  one 
week.  Kaplan,  for  instance,  was  entertain- 
ing an  important  director  at  dinner  when 
a  harassed  man  in  working  clothes  came 
up  to  the  table  and  asked  plaintively, 
"Who  do  I  see?  Where  do  I  put  it?" 

"Put  what?"  asked  Kaplan. 

"The  alligator,  of  course." 

Kaplan  excused  himself  and  went  out- 
side, to  find  a  van  containing,  sure  enough, 
a  monstrous — and  very  much  alive — alli- 
gator. "Mr.  Allen  ordered  it  this  morning," 
the  man  said.   "Shall  I  put  it  in  the  pool?" 

"You'd  better  tell  those  people  to  get 
out  first,"  Kaplan  said  dazedly.  "They 
might  scare  the  alligator  and  we  wouldn't 
want  to  ruin  one  of  Mr.  Allen's  props." 

Ihat  was  the  night  Allen  had  a  Seminole 
Indian  dive  into  the  pool,  capture  the  alli- 
gator and  wrestle  it  onto  the  poolside 
(while  guests  scattered  hastily).  The  night 
before,  Steve  had  surprised  Mr.  Kaplan 
by  installing  an  enormous  porpoise  in  the 
same  pool,  and  allowing  Milton  Berle  to 
crouch  on  the  diving  board  and  lure  the 
thing  out  of  the  drink  with  fish.  They  ran 
out  of  fish  before  the  porpoise  ran  out  of 
appetite,  and  had  to  send  to  the  dining 
room  for  a  number  of  $4.50  Pompano 
Amandine  entrees,  complete  with  lemon 
butter  and  asparagus  Hollandaise,  to  keep 
the  animal  quiet. 

The  fantastic  things  that  happened  be- 
cause Kaplan  and  the  hotel  management 
couldn't  possibly  foresee  them  were  legion, 
and  there  is  no  room  for  them  here.  These 
things  a  public  relations  man  can  accept 
fatalistically.  But  what  does  he  do  when — 
after  all  those  weeks  of  careful  planning 
against  the  invasion  of  unwelcome,  un- 
authorized people — Jayne's  sister,  Audrey 
Meadows,  arrives  for  a  show,  walks  into 
her  room,  and  finds  two  giggling  teen-age 
girls  waiting  for  her,  holding  out  auto- 
graph books?  At  three  in  the  morning? 
No  one  ever  found  out  how  they  got  there, 
because  they  grabbed  their  autographs  and 
disappeared  in  the  maze  of  corridors. 

But  even  that  incident  didn't  shake 
Kaplan  as  much  as  the  one  which  hap- 
pened next  day,  when  Jayne  arrived  from 
Nassau.  After  the  thirty  trunklines  and 
fifteen  operators  had  been  installed  to  han- 
dle the  television  business,  it  had  been 
decided  that  all  incoming  calls  would  clear 
through  a  chief  operator  who  would  in- 
quire whether  the  calls  were  for  business 
or  personal  purposes.  Business  calls  would 
be  routed  to  the  staff,  personal  calls  to 
Suite  A. 

Very  well.  Strictly  on  schedule,  Jayne 
turned  up  at  the  Miami  International  Air- 
port, from  Nassau,  and  of  course  phoned 
the  hotel  to  tell  Steve  she'd  be  with  him 
in  half  an  hour.  To  the  chief  operator  she 
said,  "Mr.  Steve  Allen,  please." 

"Is  this  a  personal  call?" 

"This  is  Jayne  Allen." 

"Is  this  a  personal  call?" 

"Look,"  said  Jayne,  "I'm  Mrs.  Allen — 
Steve  Allen's  wife!" 

"Yes,  madam.  And  is  this  a  personal 
call?" 

After  all,  how  personal  can  a  phone  call 
get? 

That  long-delayed  honeymoon  must  have 
clicked  about  as  well  as  any  honeymoon 
ever  did,  for  Steve  and  Jayne  immediately 
began  planning  further  junkets— with  the 
show.  After  all,  if  one  honeymoon  can  be 
so  pleasant,  why  not  more  honeymoons, 
every  three  or  four  months? 


Man  of  the  House 


{Continited  jrom  page  49) 

It  turned  out  to  be  a  nine-room  house — 
half  brown  shingles,  half  fieldstone.  There 
was  a  large  yard,  with  a  Lombardy  poplar 
and  peach  and  crab-apple  trees.  There 
were  even  flower  beds  and  the  remains  of 
an  old  greenhouse.  Inside  the  house,  the 
living  room  was  one-and-a-half  stories 
high  with  a  balcony  "that  has  absolutely 
no  purpose."  But  it  also  had  a  large 
cathedral  window,  an  open  fireplace,  a 
beamed  ceiling — and,  underneath,  there 
was  a  large  playroom  for  the  children. 

"Its  rapscallion  personality  appealed  to 
us,"  Herb  admits.  "We  didn't  even  bother 
to  have  any  architects  or  engineers  in- 
spect the  place.  We  just  felt  it  was  right 
for  us,  so  we  bought  it  on  sight."  And 
although,  according  to  the  laws  of  real 
estate  and  human  nature,  the  Nelsons 
should  have  been  stung — they  weren't.  As 
for  Shakespeare — whereverfor  he  art — it 
can't  be  in  heaven  .  .  .  because  that's 
where   the   Nelsons   are. 

When  it  comes  to  raising  their  children, 
Joan  and  Herb  also  "play  it  by  ear." 
"Kids  have  a  peculiar  habit  of  impressing 
you  with  their  needs,"  he  says.  "Joan  and 
I,  for  instance — we  aren't  very  authori- 
tarian by  nature.  It's  the  children  them- 
selves who  demand  authority,  so  we  give 
it  to  them  as  needed.  Otherwise,  we  just 
love  them   and  let   them  live." 

The  result  is  an  obviously  happy  brood: 
Da\^Ti  Ley,  going  on  seven;  Erika  Joan, 
going  on  five;  and  DeWitt,  born  last  No- 
vember. For  "playing  it  by  ear"  means 
trusting  your  instincts,  as  our  parents  did 
before  the  day  of  the  "How  To  — "  books. 
And  if  Herb  places  such  confidence  in  his 
own  instincts,  it's  because  he  knows  they 
are  sound — rooted  in  the  happy,  healthy 
home  life  his  own  parents  gave  him.  That's 
what  he's  trying  to  do  for  his  own  chil- 
dren— "love  them  and  let  them  live" — as 
he  was  allowed  to  live  when  he  was  a 
child  back  in  Stillwater,  Minnesota, 
dreaming  that  first  dream  of  glory.  .  .  . 

"My  mother,  Anna  Magnusson,  of  Udde- 
valla,  Sweden,  and  father,  Frank  Nilsson 
(now  Nelson),  of  Malmo,  Sweden,  mi- 
grated to  America  in  1905."  According  to 
Herb,  "Their  interest  in  learning  a  new 
language  was  a  major  factor  of  life  and 
undoubtedly  inspired  the  same  deep  in- 
terest among  their  four  children.  I  suspect 
they  also  took  an  inordinate  pride  in 
hearing  their  progeny  spout  pieces  in  the 
new  tongue  at  church  and  school  pro- 
grams.  At  least,. 5ye  were  always  doing  it." 

W  hich  may  account  for  one  son  becom- 
ing a  professor  of  English  literature,  and 
the   other  becoming   an   actor. 

"I  was  born  on  December  17,  1913," 
Herb  says  and,  having  dispensed  with  the 
one  important  fact,  gives  way  to  a  rush 
of  memories.  "I  recall  sitting  in  my  high 
chair  at  the  kitchen  table  one  day,  at- 
tempting to  pucker  up  a  whistle  in  imi- 
tation of  my  older  brother.  All  of  a 
sudden,  I  emitted  a  beautifully  clear,  bird- 
like note — my  first  real  triumph.  ...  As  a 
grade-school  thespian,  my  outstanding 
success  was  as  Washington  telling  the 
truth  about  the  cherry  tree  incident.  Or, 
as  Lincoln  scratching  his  lessons  on  a 
wooden  shovel,  I  was  great.  As  any  one  of 
the  three  Kings  of  the  Orient,  unbeliev- 
able! ...  I  sang  in  the  choir  of  the  Trinity 
Lutheran  Church.  I  also  took  ten  lessons 
on  the  piano  before  the  teacher  and  my 
parents  gave  up,  but  I  had  "The  Off-to- 
the-Circus  March"  in  pretty  good  shape. 
...  I  had  a  paper  route  for  the  St.  Paul 
Daily  News  in  Stillwater  when  I  was  ten. 
And  the  snow  was  really  deep,  too.  .  .  . 
Oh,  and  I  think  I  got  as  far  as  first-class 
Scout — I  can't  be  sure." 


At  sixteen,  after  graduating  from  high 
school:  "I  loafed  for  a  month  or  two, 
then  went  to  work  as  an  usher  at  the 
Riviera  Theater  in  St.  Paul.  I  can  re- 
member making  a  bet  with  the  doorman, 
who  wanted  to  be  a  fighter — possibly  be- 
cause his  name  was  John  L.  Sullivan — 
that  I'd  have  my  name  on  a  Broadway 
marquee  before  he  won  a  title." 

In  1930,  Herb  acted  in  a  production  of 
"Michael  and  Mary"  put  on  by  the  Little 
Theater  in  his  home  town.  "The  night  of 
our  only  performance,"  he  recalls,  "a  bat 
got  loose.  The  dead  man  came  to  life  to 
see  what  was  going  on  and  then  expired 
again.  And  a  wonderful  time  was  had  by 
all."  Herb  also  enrolled  in  the  University 
of  Minnesota  so  he  "could  get  into  their 
little-theater  group."  These  were  De- 
pression days,  however,  and  he  only  re- 
mained a  year.  .  .  . 

In  addition  to  those  early  jobs  as  a 
newsboy  and  a  theater  usher.  Herb  has 
also  been  a  caddy,  tobacco-store  clerk, 
house-to-house  salesman,  cab  driver,  bus 
driver,  house  painter,  counter  clerk  at  a 
Glacier  Park  hotel,  lumberjack  in  the 
CCC,  government  livestock  reporter,  odd- 
jobs  man,  sergeant-major  in  the  Army, 
radar  repairman,  rifle  instructor,  and 
manager  of  a  theatrical  company. 

"Once."  he  adds,  "I  was  offered  a  job  as 
a  flagpole-sitter  during  that  craze,  but  I 
turned  it  down,  feeling  that  it  was  work 
suitable  only  for  a  recluse — which  I  am 
not." 

Most  of  his  life,  however.  Herb  has  been 
able  to  make  a  living  at  the  business  he 
likes  best.  It  was  only  those  first  six  years 
that  were  "mighty  lean,  and  mostly  a 
sideline  to  regular  work."  In  1930,  he 
auditioned  for  a  staf?  job  at  Station 
WCCO,  Minneapolis. 

"I  floundered  through  a  tremendously 
erudite  book-review  and  wound  up  last," 
he  recalls.  "A  similar  audition  at  KSTP, 
St.  Paul,  several  years  and  some  experi- 
ence later,  resulted  in  the  suggestion  that 
I  consider  some  other  line  of  work,  be- 
cause there  was  a  quality  in  my  voice  that 
would  cause  cheaper  sets  to  vibrate.  In 
1932,  I  joined  a  tent  repertory  outfit  play- 
ing 'Toby  shows'  out  of  Fort  Dodge,  Iowa. 
I  was  handed  a  bundle  of  'sides'  that 
would  have  choked  a  horse,  and  also  in- 
formed that  I  would  have  to  do  a  specialty 
in  the  between  acts  'oleo.'  I  came  up 
with  an  uncertain  rendition  of  'St.  James 
Infirmary  Blues,'  with  gestures  and  tramp 
costume,  which  stunned  both  audience 
and  producer.  I  stayed  three  weeks,  got 
homesick  and  quit." 

By  1934,  Herb  was  in  St.  Paul  and 
Minneapolis,  broadcasting  livestock  re- 
ports, as  well  as  appesiring  in  local  dra- 
matic shows.  Three  years  later,  he  felt 
he  was  ready  to  try  his  luck  in  Chicago. 
At  Station  WGN,  a  radio  producer  needed 
an  Englishman  for  a  part  in  a  daytime 
serial.  Herb  sat  through  four  showings 
of  a  David  Niven  movie,  then  auditioned 
— literally  "playing  it  by  ear."  He  not 
only  got  the  part  but  played  it  for  two 
years. 

"The  producer  subsequently  used  me  for 
all  of  his  English  parts  on  other  shows, 
and  was  mighty  surprised  some  time  later 
when  he  found  out  I  was  from  the  Mid- 
west, not  Middlesex." 

For  the  next  three  years.  Herb  acted  in 
some  twenty  daytime  serials,  then  shifted 
to  New  York,  where  he  hoped  to  "have  a 
go  at  the  legitimate  theater  on  Broadway." 
One  year  later,  he  was  the  juvenile  lead 
in  S.  J.  Perelman's  "The  Night  Before 
Christmas."  The  following  year,  he  was 
in  Arnold  Sundgaard's  "The  First  Crocus." 
Meanwhile,  he  continued  on  radio,  play- 


FROM    HEAD   TO   TOE... 

Your  skin . .  .satin-smooth,  gloriously 
fragrant  -  soothed,  cooled,  pampered 
by  DJER-KISS  — finest  of 
imported  talcs.  Djer-Kiss  Talcum 

helps  prevent  chafing,  absorbs 
perspiration  .  ..keeps  you  exquisitely 
feminine  all  day  long  I 


29*.  434.  594  (plus  tax) 


lou  re  thrilling  tonile 

...when  you  wear  Blue  Waltz 
This  heart-stirring  perfume 

makes  dreams  come  true! 
Try  it—when  you're 
ready  for  love! 


T 
V 
P 

85 


m 


THIS  GORGEOUS  BOOK  rs  REALLY  .  .  . 

HOLLYWOOD 
IN  REVIEW 


It's  better  than  ever  I  It  contains  more  news  and  pictures 
about  all  the  stars  of  Hollywood  than  ever  before.  Yes,  the 
exciting,  new  1955  edition  of  PHOTOPLAY  ANNUAL  Is 
sensational.  It's  a  treasure-mine  of  information  about  the 
stars  ...  a  real  Who's  Who  in  Hollywood.  This  colorful 
and  glamorous  year  book  is  THE  book-of-the-year — as  far 
as  Hollywood  is  concerned.  Get  your  copy  of  this  prize 
book  before  they  are  all  snatched  up.  Here  is  what  you  get 
in  this  great  yearbook: 

NEWS  EVENTS  OF  THE  YEAR— 20  exciting  pages  Id 
pictures  and  text  covering  the  month-by-month  weddings — 
separations — divorces — births — awards — scoops. 

PERSONALITIES  OF  THE  YEAR— Stories  and  picturei 
of  Kobert  Wagner  •  Janet  Leigh,  Tony  Curtis  •  Debbie 
Reynolds  •  Bock  Hudson  •  Marilyn  Monroe  •  Guy  Madi- 
son •  Audrey  Hepburn  •  Audie  Murphy. 

LOVE  SCENES— Beautiful  full-page  scenes  of  the  start 
from  ten  top  shows  of  the  year. 

DANCERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Action  pictures  and  bio- 
graphical sketches  of  Cyd  Charisse  •  Tera-Ellen  •  The 
Champions  •   Talna  Elg  •   Leslie  Caron  •  Mitzi  Gaynor. 

PERFORMERS  OF  THE  YEAR— Here  you  get  portraits 
as  well  as  action  shots  from  their  big  pictures,  plus  the 
autographs  of  Marlon  Brando  •  June  Allyson  •  Van  Johnson 

•  Judy  Garland  •  Robert  Mitchum  •  Gary  Cooper  • 
Burt  Lancaster  •  Ava  Gardner. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES— Beautiful  pictures,  plus  thumb- 
nail sketches  of  Alan  Ladd  •  Susan  Hayward  •  Dean 
Martin  •  Jerry  Lewis  •  Jeanne  Crain   •  William  Holden 

•  Eleanor  Parker  •  Clark  Gable  •  Betty  Grable  •  Victor 
Mature  •  Virginia  Mayo  •  Kobert  Taylor  •  Barbara 
Stanwyck  •  Richard  Widmark  •  John  Wayne. 


-Doris  Day  •  Howard  Keel 
I  Danny  Kaye  •  Rosemary 


SONGSTERS  OF  THE  YEAR- 

•  Jane  Powell  •  Bing  Crosby  < 
Clooney  •  Frank  Sinatra. 

PORTRAIT  GALLERY— Pull-page  pictures  of  Esther 
Williams  •  Elizabeth  Taylor  •  Montgomery  CUft  •  Jeff 
Chandler  •  Stewart  Granger  and  Jean  Simmons  •  Ann 
Blyth  •  Charlton  Heston  •  Piper  Laurie  •  Scott  Brady  • 
Jane  Russell  •  John  Derek. 

ASCENDING  STARS — These  are  the  names  that  are 
makinji  news.  Some  have  just  flashed  into  siglit — some  now 
shine  with  an  extra  radiance — Terry  Moore  •  George 
Nader  •  Edmund  ruidom  •  Jack  Lemmon  •  Richard  Hur- 
ton  •  Barbara  Rush  •  Susan  Cabot  •  3efl  Richards  • 
Steve  Forrest  •  Dee  Avedon  •  Audrey  Dahnn  •  Race 
Gentry  •  Russ  Taiiiblyn  •  Sarita  RIontiel  •  Elaine  Stew- 
art •  Jeffrey  Hunter  •  Elroy  Ilirsch  •  Rhonda  Fleming  • 
Pat  Crowley  •  Ben  Cooper  •  Lori  Nelson  •  Robert  Stack  • 
Julia  Adams  •  Suzan  Ball  •  Maria  English. 

ONLY  50<— WHILE  THEY  LAST 

This  sensational  Yca-tjook  sells  out  practically  as  soon  as 
it  is  put  on  sale.  Don't  be  disappointed  this  ye-ir — only 
50c  at   newsstands   or   mail   coupon   with   50c — TODAY. 


PHOTOPLAY 
205  E.  42  St.. 


Dept. 
New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


RM-755 
205  E.  42  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

I   Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  PHOTOPLAY 
I  ANNUAL  1955.  I  enclose  50c. 

I 


T 
V 
R 

86 


I 
I 
I 
I 

I   Name 

•     PIcaso    Print  I 

I  Address I 

I 

I    City Staie I 

L 1 


ing  in  everything  from  Stella  Dallas  to 
Just  Plain  Bill,  Portia  Faces  Life  to  John's 
Other  Wife,  The  Prudential  Hour  to  Lin- 
coln Highway.  It  was  during  this  period 
that  he  acted  his  most  difficult  radio  role — 
that  of  a  ghost. 

"At  one  point,"  Herb  remembers,  "the 
director  instructed  me  to  achieve  the  effect 
of  a  green  fog  rising  slowly  up  from  a 
swamp.    So  I  did  it." 

Drafted  into  the  Signal  Corps  in  1942, 
Herb  was  made  a  sergeant-major  in 
charge  of  a  hundred -man  administrative 
staff,  and  was  stationed  in  England,  France 
and  Germany.  At  the  end  of  the  war,  he 
toured  the  ETO  in  a  Soldier  Show  Com- 
pany production  of  "Golden  Boy."  Dis- 
charged in  1946,  he  joined  the  Barter 
Theater  in  Virginia,  touring  for  the  next 
three  years  in  twenty-eight  states  through 
the  South  and  Midwest.  He  played  every- 
thing from  Patsy  in  "Three  Men  on  a 
Horse"  to  Prospero  in  "The  Tempest." 

Returning  to  New  York,  he  continued 
his  career  in  radio  and  broke  into  TV. 
In  addition  to  his  regular  role  as  Max  Can- 
field  in  The  Brighter  Day,  Herb  now  acts 
in  all  the  top  dramatic  shows.  Each  sum- 
mer, in  between  TV  engagements,  he 
manages  to  do  some  summer  stock  as  well 
as  a  smattering  of  film  work.  And  re- 
cently, he  appeared  in  two  Broadway 
plays:  "His  and  Hers,"  with  Celeste  Holm, 
and  "The  Seven  Year  Itch." 

That  Herb  has  done  so  well  in  so  highly 


competitive  a  profession  is  a  tribute  to  his 
acting  ability  rather  than  his  ambition. 
He  has  none,  except  "to  live  to  be  a  hun- 
dred and  to  die  happy. 

"I  am  not  a  subscriber  to  the  success 
theory,"  he  says.  "I  think  it  gets  in  the 
way  of  enjoyment  of  life."  Enjoying  life, 
he  has  never  been  unhappy  enough  to 
want  to  "give  his  all"  for  the  theater.  But, 
although  he  lacked  the  drive,  he  did  have 
the  direction.  For  a  man,  part  of  the 
enjoyment  of  life  is  enjoying  the  work  he 
does,  so  that  Herb's  goal  has  always  been 
in  the  theater.  And,  just  as  he  has  guided 
his  life  by  instinct — "playing  it  by  ear" — 
so  with  his  career. 

"Whenever  I  come  to  some  crossroad," 
Herb  says,  "when  I  have  a  decision  to 
make  about  which  direction  to  take, 
there's  a  monitor  in  me  which  acts  as  a 
direction-finder.  'Hey,  Bub!'  it  warns — 
any  time  I'm  about  to  get  off  the  main 
track  or  lose  sight  of  my  goal." 

And  today,  Herb  has  reached  his  goal. 
-He  has  found  success  .  .  .  not  the  kind 
that  ends  in  a  penthouse  on  Park  Avenue, 
New  York,  but  in  a  nine-room  house  on 
Park  Avenue,  Leonia,  New  Jersey  .  .  . 
with  a  wife  and  three  children,  and  his 
own  workshop  in  the  basement — so  he  can 
do  a  bit  of  carpentry  once  in  a  while,  like 
his  father  before  him.  By  playing  one's 
life  by  ear,  Herb  has  found,  one  often  gets 
a  melody  that's  new  and  fresh  and  all 
one's  own. 


Live  Up  to  Your  Dreams 


(Continued  from  page  36) 
why.  Vainly,  Mama  DeSimone  reminded 
him  that  the  lessons  had  been  his  own 
idea  and  that  the  family  was  making  sac- 
rifices to  pay  for  them.  Johnny  simply 
balked. 

His  vivid  recollection  of  the  stress  of 
that  moment  could  still  put  emotion  into 
his  voice  as  he  explained,  "The  trouble 
was,  I  had  been  faking.  I  had  a  terrific 
ear  and  I  was  quick  to  mimic  what  anyone 
did.  I'd  watch  while  the  teacher  played  a 
piece  through.  Then  I  would  imitate  her. 
But  I  had  not  learned  to  read  a  single  note 
of  music.  She  was  bound  to  discover  it. 
I  knew  I  had  outsmarted  myself." 

Her  patience  exhausted,  Mrs.  DeSimone 
had  issued  a  direct  order:  "Go  take  your 
lesson."  Johnny  gave  a  flat  refusal.  "I 
won't." 

Ruefully,  he  recalls,  "My  mother  locked 
the  door.  She  snatched  off  her  slipper.  And 
she  took  after  me.  For  more  than  a  hour, 
we  went  'round  and  'round.  When  that 
spanking  was  over,  I  don't  know  who  was 
crying  the  worse,  my  mother  or  me.  But  I 
do  know  that  is  when  I  realized  that  every- 
one has  to  answer  for  something  and  I 
had  better  start  doing  it." 

It  was  a  thoughtful  little  boy  who  was 
ready  to  obey  when  his  mother  unlocked 
the  door.  "She  called  my  older  brother, 
Harry,"  said  Johnny,  "and  told  him  to  take 
me  to  the  teacher,  to  see  to  it  I  confessed, 
and  also  to  see  that  I  took  my  lesson." 

In  the  recounting  of  it,  Johnny  paused 
long  enough  to  clear  something  suspicious- 
ly like  a  lump  from  his  throat.  "My  whole 
attitude  changed  after  that.  I  buckled 
down.  My  father  helped  me  get  a  paper 
route  and  I  used  the  money  to  pay  for 
more  music  lessons.  Eventually,  I  went  to 
the  Detroit  Conservatory.  I  also  studied 
dancing  and  acting.  Once  I  had  admitted 
I  had  to  work  for  what  I  wanted,  I  really 
went  after  it." 

The  episode  had  an  unexpectedly  senti- 
mental little  sequel.  Smiling,  Johnny  re- 
called, "My  mother  never  threw  away 
that  slipper.  She  still  keeps  it  wrapped  in 
tissue  paper." 

It  also  had  the  practical  effect  of  start- 


ing Johnny's  professional  career  early.  At 
eleven,  he  began  singing  on  a  children's 
program.  He  had  acting  parts  on  both 
The  Lone  Ranger  and  The  Green  Hornet. 
He  danced  in  night  clubs  and  he  sang  with 
a  vocal  group  called  The  Downbeats. 

Bob  Crosby  renamed  them  The  Bob-0- 
Links  when  he  took  them  out  on  the  road 
with  his  band.  In  Kansas  City,  a  new  girl 
singer,  Ruth  Keddington,  joined  up.  A 
year  later,  Johnny  married  her. 

He  sang  alone,  he  sang  with  Gene 
Krupa's  band  and,  when  war  came,  he  en- 
listed in  the  Air  Force  and  sang  with 
Major  Glenn  Miller's  outfit.  As  a  soldier 
soloist,  Johnny  Desmond  was  a  well- 
heard  hit.  Tagged  "The  GI  Sinatra,"  he 
found  top  bookings  waiting  for  him  when 
he  got  home. 

"I  was  just  about  the  hottest  thing  along 
Broadway,"  Johnny  recalled.  "I  headlined 
in  a  theater,  I  had  two  national  radio 
shows.  And,  the  day  that  Petrillo  lifted  the 
ban  on  live  music  on  TV,  I  started  doing 
CBS's  first  musical  program." 

Here  was  overnight  success  of  propor- 
tions to  satisfy  the  most  flamboyant  day- 
dream. The  Desmond  star  was  shooting 
through  the  show  business  horizon.  Then, 
still  like  a  shooting  star,  it  burned  out 
fast.  The  TV  show  went  first.  "The  trouble 
was,"  says  Johnny,  "we  wanted  to  charge 
for  it.  It  cost  $675  a  day  for  a  five-station 
network.  No  sponsor  had  that  kind  of 
money  for  TV  in  those  days.  A  fellow 
named  Perry  Como  has  my  time  now." 

Everything  seemed  to  cancel  out  at  once. 
"I  just  plain  wasn't  ready,"  Johnny  ex- 
plains. "I  couldn't  handle  it.  My  income 
dropped  from  $3600  a  month  to  zero.  For 
four  months,  we  lived  on  our  savings, 
without  a  dime  coming  in.  Once  you've  had 
star  billing,  you  can't  go  back.  No  one 
wants  you.  You've  had  it." 

In  the  pleasant  house  they  had  bought 
out  on  Long  Island,  things  were  beginning 
to  get  tight.  Ruth,  with  Diane  a  toddler 
and  Patti  on  the  way,  had  a  strained  look 
around  her  eyes  every  time  she  had  to 
make  another  subtraction  from  the  di- 
minishing bank  balance. 

A  solution  for  Johnny's  dilemma  came 


when  Don  McNeill  invited  him  to  fill  in 
for  vacationing  Jack  Owens  on  The  Break- 
iast  Club.  Shortly  thereafter,  when  Owens 
moved  to  California,  Don  offered  Johnny 
the  permanent  spot. 

"I  sure  hated  to  go  to  Chicago,"  Johnny 
now  admits.  ''I  sulked  during  my  w^hole 
first  year.  I'd  stand  back  on  the  edge  of 
the  stage  and  think  to  myself,  'What  corn!' 
I  can  tell  you  fast  what  the  audience 
thought  of  me.  After  he  had  been  gone  a 
year.  Jack  Owens  was  still  getting  more 
mail  than  I  was.  I  could  have  dropped  dead 
and  no  one  would  have  noticed.  I  kept  ex- 
pecting McNeill  to  throw  me  back  to  the 
lions." 

Instead,  Don  led  Johnny  back  to  his  own 
sound  old  system.  "Let's  go  to  work  on 
this,"  he  suggested. 

"Well,"  says  Johnny,  "we'd  try  one  thing 
and  Don  would  decide  it  wasn't  quite 
right  for  me,  so  we'd  try  another.  The 
other  cast  members  helped  me  out.  I 
worked  at  home,  too,  with  Ruth  coaching 
me.  Bit  by  bit,  I  got  interested  myself. 
I  came  off  the  sidelines  and  began  to  par- 
ticipate." 

Johnny  credits  The  Breakfast  Club  au- 
dience with  putting  on  the  final  touches. 
"There's  nothing  like  that  day-to-day 
contact  to  let  you  know  where  you  stand. 
The  audience  is  part  of  the  family  and 
they  expect  you  to  be,  too.  I  quickly  found 
out  what  people  liked  or  didn't  like.  When 
I  began  to  relax  and  have  fun,  it  showed 
in  the  mail." 

With  returning  confidence,  Johnny  again 
reached  out  toward  the  teenagers.  He  sang 
the  "prpm"  circuit,  he  cut  some  records,  he 
ran  a  local  high-school  TV  show.  The 
Johnny  Desmond  fan  clubs  multiplied. 

As  he  looked  forward  to  swinging  out 
as  a  single  again,  the  mature  knowledge 
he  had  gained  shaped  his  plans.  He  paid 
attention  to  the  way  songs  are  plugged 
and  he  took  the  trouble  to  learn  how  rec- 
ords are  distributed.  He  found  a  new 
manager,  Dick  Gabbe,  who  understood  his 
needs. 

But,  most  of  all,  he  began  thinking  about 
the  teenagers  and  the  influence  music  and 
recording  stars  could  have  on  them.  "Ruth 
and  I  would  talk  it  over,"  says  Johnny, 
"and  we  would  both  have  a  feeling  we 
were  sort  of  standing  in  the  middle.  We 
could  well  remember  how  we  used  to  get 
all  gassed  up  about  a  recording  star  and, 
for  a  while,  think  he  was  absolutely  the 
greatest — that  his  music  was  the  only  thing 
to  express  how  we  felt.  And  don't  get  me 
wrong.  That  can  stiU  happen  to  both  of  us. 

"But  now  we  saw  the  other  side,  too. 
We'd  notice  a  headline  which  coupled  jazz 
with  juvenile  delinquency,  and  we'd  think 
about  our  own  little  girls  growing  up. 
We'd  hope  that  they  would  always  get  a 
real  charge  out  of  music,  but  also  that 
they  would  hold  a  sovmd  balance." 


Out  of  such  husband-wife  conversations 
came  a  plan,  based  on  a  do-unto- others 
principle.  To  put  it  into  effect,  Johnny, 
with  the  backing  of  his  sponsor,  the  Philco 
Corporation,  began  organizing  what  they 
call  "Phonorama"  clubs. 

A  fan  club,  Johnny  believes,  should  do 
more  than  feed  a  star's  ego.  The  way  he 
looks  at  it,  a  fan  club  shoiild,  first  of  all, 
give  its  members  an  opportunity  to  have 
fun  listening  to  music  together.  It  should 
also  encourage  them  to  develop  their  own 
abilities  and  talents. 

"What  every  kid  wants  more  than  any- 
thing else,"  Johnny  says,  "is  recognition. 
That's  the  way  it  ought  to  be,  for  the 
most  important  part  of  growing  up  is 
learning  to  use  your  imagination,  talents 
and  abilities.  Yet,  too  often,  it  is  easier 
for  a  kid  to  get  noticed  for  doing  some- 
thing violent  than  it  is  for  him  to  find  an 
opportunity  to  do  something  worthwhile. 
Well,  we're  looking  beyond  those  juvenile 
delinquency  headlines  on  the  front  pages 
to  search  out  the  small  headlines  on  the 
back  pages — the  ones  that  tell  when  a  kid 
has  achieved  something." 

For  such  young  wirjiers,  there's  a  week- 
ly interview  on  Phonorama  Time,  an 
award  of  the  month,  and,  at  the  end  of  the 
year,  a  college  scholarship,  presented  by 
Philco,  for  the  grand  champion.  Says 
Johnny,  with  satisfaction,  "There's  that 
chance  for  a  kid  to  stand  in  the  spot- 
light." 

But,  in  the  planning,  Johnny  has  not 
overlooked  the  advice,  based  on  his  own 
hard-earned  lessons,  which  he  gave  to  the 
Philadelphia  girl  reporter.  "If  you  want 
to  be  a  successful  singer — or  anything 
else — work  at  it." 

He's  suggesting  to  club  members  that 
they  develop  their  civic  muscles  by  par- 
ticipating in  community  drives.  In  his 
opinion,  "Teenagers  constitute  a  tremen- 
dous community  resource.  When  they 
pitch  in,  they  can  put  over  anything, 
whether  it  is  fund-raising  or  a  clean-up 
campaign.  They  have  the  energy,  the  en- 
thusiasm, the  ideas.  You'd  be  surprised 
what  they  can  dream  up  while  sitting 
around  hstening  to  a  stack  of  records." 

He  bets  his  own  stack  of  platters — the 
new  releases  which  the  recording  com- 
panies send  out  to  disc  jockeys — on  a  dif- 
ferent club  each  week.  "I'm  sending  them 
along  for  the  kids  to  enjoy  and  I  expect, 
in  turn,  to  hear  about  their  achievements," 
he  said. 

For  Johnny,  too,  the  achievements  again 
are  impressive.  As  this  is  written,  there's 
talk  of  a  role  in  a  movie.  Then,  on  August 
15,  he  goes  into  rehearsal  for  a  Broad- 
way show  by  George  Axelrod  and  Jule 
Stern,  titled  "Tinsel  Time."  Johnny  Des- 
mond, taking  his  own  advice,  is  finding 
that  his  personal  formula  for  success — 
"Work  at  it" — is  working  just  swell. 


For  COOL  summer  reading,  be  sure  to  get 

August  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

featuring: 

The  red-hot  McGUIRE  SISTERS  .  .  . 
The  delightful  Halls  of  Ivy  College,  RONALD  and  BENITA  COLMAN 
The  sensational  GARY  CROSBY  .  .  . 
Set  your  copy  early  ...  on  sale  everywhere  July  5 


MARY  ELLEN  KAY 

In  The  Long  Wait 

With  ANTHONY  QUINN 

Warner  Bros.  Release 


LIPS 


exciting!  LI  TO  enticing! 

LIQUID  LIPTONE  can't  smear!  can't  melt! 

Instantly  make  your  Eps  more  thrilling; 
see  them  decked  in  romance-hued  vibrant 
color  that  really  can't  smear.  Obviously 
such  a  miracle  could  not  be  done  by  a 
cream  lipstick,  and  it  isn't.  A  liquid 
does  it.  Liptone  contains  no  grease,  no 
cream,  no  paste.  Just  pure  liquid  color. 

Now  you  can  make  up 
your  lips  before  you 
go  out — and  no  matter 
what  you  do — or  whether 
it  be  in  sunlight  or 
moonlight — they'll  stay 
divinely  red  till  long 
after  you're  back  home. 

Makes  the  Sweetest  Kiss 
Because  It  Leaves  no  Mark  on  himi 

Think  of  it!  Not  a  tiny  bit  of  your  glam- 
orous Liptone  leaves  your  lips  for  his — or 
for  a  napkin  or  tea-cup.  It  stays  true  to 
your  lips  alone.  Feels  soft  and  smooth  ... 
and  is  so  easy  to  apply.  All  stores  $1. 

Please  try  SEVERAL  SHADES  at  my  invitation 

You  can't  possibly  know  how  loyely  your  lips  will  be 
till  you  see  them  in  Liquid  Liptone.  Check  coupon. 
Enclose  25c  for  each 
shade.  Mail  it  at  once. 
I'll  send  trial  sizes  of 
all  shades  you  order; 
each  lasts  at  least  2 
weeks.  Expect  to  he 
thrilled.  You  WILL  be! 


fSEND  COUPON  for  generous  Trial  Sizes, 
PRINCESS  PAT,  Dept.  5147 
2709  S.  Weils  St.,  Chicoso  16,  III. 
Send  Triai  Sizes  of  the  shades  I  checked  belowt 
t  enclose  25c  coin  for  each  one. 


D  English  Tint  orangey 

D  Cyclamen  bluish  pink 

Q  Gay  Plom  deep  purple 

D  Gypsy  vibrant  red 

n  Jev^el  bright  ruby 

D  Medium  rich  red 

D  Clear — colorless.  To  sroearproof  cream  lipstick, 

ftrst  blot  lips,  then  hrvsh  on  Clear, 
Miss 
Mrs. -^ ■ 

Address 


n  Orchid  violet  pink 
O  Portsian  sharp  red 
D  Regaf  deep,  soft  red 
D  Scarlet  flame  red 
D  Tropic  sunny  red 
D  Stren  darkest  red 


I   City- 


-Zone 


-State 


T 
V 
R 

87 


T 
V 
R 

88 


No  other  way  i 

cools  tired    • 
burning  feet; 

faster,better  than  Ice-Mint  i 


When  feet  feel  like  a 
furnace,  and  it  hurts  to 
walk,  just  rub  on  cooHng 
medicated  Ice-Mint 
vanishing  cream.  Discover 
how  fast  those  burning, 
fiery  aches  and  pains  can 
be  reUeved.  Greaseless, 
stainless!  Contains 
amazing,  soothing  ^     • 
lanolin.  Also 
marvelous  for 
sunburn  and 
windburn!  Ask 
your  druggist 
for  wonderful 
Ice-Mint 
today! 


^/?££/™«  325  PICTURES 


With  your  order  of  TV  and  Movie 
Stars.  One  beautiful  Scene  from  a 
latest  production  FREE.  It's  NEW 
•and  has  never  been  offered  before! 

12/or  15^  -  28/or  25^  -64/01'  50< 

LUCKY     STARS      D«pf.  T-3 
G.  P.  O.  Box  738,  NEW  YORK  1,  N.  Y. 


i^f 


If  you  need  more  money... 

Up  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cos- 
metics, your  neighborhood. 
Free  Samples  and  details 
Si  o«^iJIS'5\Supplied.  Write  to: 

*^'  Guaranteed  by  ^ 

Good  Housekeeping;     „^„j^^^j  j„^^^„^^ 

hfcJdJ^vmisio^iiJ^lendale,  Calif.,  DepL  TS-75 


So  This  Is  Hollywood 


kAfk^$e 


MAKE  $50-$60  A  WEEK 

Practical  nurses  are  needed  In  every 
community . . .  doctors  rely  on  them . . . 
patients  appreciate  their  cheerful,  ex- 
pert  care.    You    can    learn    practical 
nursing  at  home  in  spare  time.  Course 
endorsed  by  physicians.  56th  yr.  Earn 
while  learning.   High  School  not  re- 
Qulied.    Men,   women,    18   to  60.   Trial   plan.    Write   nowl 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF    NURSING 
Dept.   27,   25   East  Jackson   Blvd.,   Chicago  4,    III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

yiame 

Citv State 4(7e 


'"'"."R'a''M'P50RIASIS 

I  (SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLEI 


spore 

TEST.! 


^DeRmoiL 


SEE  FOR  YOURSELF 
no  matter  how  long  you 
have  suffered.  Write  for 
1  FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 
1  and  DERMOIL  wltli 
1  actual  "before — after" 
\  photo  record  ol  results. 


vgenerous 
Atrial 


Don't  be  embarrassed 
with  Psoriasis,  the  usiy, 
scaly    skin   disease.   Try 
non  -  staining    DERMOIL. 

Amazing  results  reported 

lor  over  22  yearsl  Many 

grateful   users   report   the ' 

scaly  red  patches  on  body  _ 

or  scalp  gradually  disappeared  and  they 

again  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  smooth  clear  etin.  DERMOIL 

formula  Is  u?cd    by   many  doctors.    Must  give  deflnlte 

benefit  or  your  money  back.  Make  our  famous  "One  Spot 

Test"!  SICND   lOP  for  trial   bottle.   DliRMOIL  sold  at 

Liggett  and  Walgreen  and   other   leading    Drug  Stores. 

Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.  9904 

Box    392S    Stralhmoar    Station,    Detroit    27,     Mich. 


{ContvaueA,  from  'page.  59) 
show's  ingenue.  He  remembered  me,  he 
said,  as  "that  fresh  kid  from  the  movies." 
I  went  looking  for  the  director  to  com- 
plain about  this  young  man's  remark — 
only  to  find  that  the  young  man,  Joe  Pev- 
ney,  was  the  director. 

Of  all  the  stock  companies  to  choose 
from,  I  wondered  how  I  managed  to  end 
up  in  Ivoryton!  Then  I  remembered  my 
grandmother's  words:  "Everything  hap- 
pens for  the  best!"  She  was  right.  Two 
weeks  later,  Joe  and  I  were  holding  hands. 
And,  three  years  later,  we  were  married! 

Our  wedding  took  place  in  1942,  on  our 
lunch  hour.  At  the  time,  Joe  and  I  were 
rehearsing  for  a  Broadway  play.  I  came  to 
rehearsal  that  morning  all  dressed  up  in 
white  gloves  and  white  hat.  The  gang  had 
a  "hunch"  that  something  was  going  to 
happen — after  all,  we  usually  all  showed 
up  in  slacks. 

When  we  broke  for  lunch,  Joe  and  I 
raced  to  City  Hall,  to  the  chambers  of  Su- 
preme Court  Judge  Morris  Eder.  He  was 
the  father  of  my  girl  friend  Shirley,  and 
she  guaranteed  he'd  give  us  fast  service. 
But,  when  we  came  panting  into  his 
chambers,  he  said,  "Wait  .  .  .  slow  down  .  .  . 
don't  be  in  such  a  rush.  I  don't  even  know 
this  boy.  At  least,  I  would  like  to  taih  to 
you  before  I  marry  you.  .  .  ." 

"Believe  me,"  I  said,  "it's  all  right. 
Please,  Ao  hurry — we  have  to  be  back  at 
two  o'clock!" 

We  did  get  back  by  two  o'clock.  But 
there  was  no  rehearsal — just  rice  and 
champagne  for  the  newlyweds.  Later,  when 
the  champagne  was  all  gone,  the  director 
said,  "That's  enough  for  today."  He  was 
right. 

Joe  and  I  started  out  by  taxi  for  his 
folks'  home  in  Brooklyn.  On  the  way,  we 
were  stopped  three  times  by  air-raid  black- 
out tests.  It  took  us  over  three  hours  to 
get  there.  Since  Joe  was  about  to  go  into 
the  service,  that  three-hour  taxi  ride  was 
our  honeymoon. 

In  December,  1942,  Joe  went  into  the 
Army.  A  few  months  later,  he  had  his  first 
leave  and  we  went  to  Florida  for  a  reaX 
honeymoon. 

I'd  been  to  Florida  before,  but  Joe  never 
had.  I  so  much  wanted  him  to  have  a  good 
time.  But,  the  day  we  arrived,  I  came  down 
with  what  I  thought  was  ptomaine  poison- 
ing. Poor  Joe  was  trotting  me  back  and 
forth  to  the  doctor's  and  fetching  me  pills. 
I  called  my  mother,  telling  her,  "I've  eaten 
something  bad.  I  feel  sick  and  upset.  I 
think  it's  history's  worst  case  of  ptomaine." 

"I  don't  think  you're  sick,"  she  said.  "I 
think  you're  pregnant!" 

Wouldn't  you  know  everything  would 
happen  for  the  best?  My  mother  was  right 
— it  wasn't  ptomaine! 

Joel  was  born  on  January  8,  1944,  while 
Joe  was  still  in  Camp  Crowder.  After  the 
baby  was  born,  Joe  came  through  New 
York  on  his  way  overseas,  staying  for  three 
weeks.  Then,  for  eighteen  months,  he  sent 
pictures  to  us  by  mail.  Which  meant  that, 
when  Joe  finally  came  home,  Joel  recog- 
nized him  immediately.  For  weeks,  it  was 
"Daddy,  Daddy,  Daddy,"  all  day  long. 

Joe  came  out  to  Hollywood  for  "Noc- 
turne," an  RKO  picture,  in  1946.  I  finished 
"Billion  Dollar  Baby"  on  Broadway  and 
joined  him.  We  liked  it  and  decided  to  stay. 
For  a  while,  we  lived  with  friends.  But, 
when  Jan,  our  second  baby,  was  due,  we 
bought  a  house  in  a  hurry. 

I  suppose  you  can't  help  having  a  cer- 
tain amount  of  jealousy  in  the  family  when 
the  second  child  arrives.  Our  solution  to 
this  problem  was  to  have  two  more  real 
soon.  Jeff  was  born  on  April  3,  1951.  Jay 


was  born  December  12,  1953.  Today  Jan — 
the  only  girl — is  the  queen  bee. 

It  seemed  that  Joe  (now  a  director  at 
Universal-International)  was  always  work- 
ing when  I  had  the  first  three  children.  It 
was  ridiculous,  the  way  we  spent  our 
time  when  the  babies  came.  Joe  took  me  to 
the  hospital  in  the  middle  of  the  night, 
waited  and  waited — and  nothing  ever  hap- 
pened. Then,  finally,  he'd  rush  off  to  work 
—only  to  be  called  back  to  the  hospital! 
By  then,  the  baby  had  been  born. 

What  with  Joe's  being  called  from  the 
set,  missing  his  work  and  his  sleep,  my 
having  the  babies  was  harder  on  him  than 
it  was  on  me.  In  addition,  he  still  was 
never  there  when  the  baby  was  actually 
born!  So,  before  Jay  arrived,  I  told  Joe  I 
was   going   to   do   it  for   him   on   Sunday. 

Saturday  night,  December  12,  1953,  we 
were  at  a  friend's  house  when  I  reminded 
him  that  Sunday  was  "his"  day,  kiddingly 
adding:  "Maybe  if  I  dance  around  a  bit, 
I  could  help  nature  along." 

Sure  enough,  Sunday  morning  about  ten 
A.M.,  I  told  him,  "Joe,  I  think  it's  time 
to  call  the  doctor." 

He  said,   "I  don't  believe  it!" 

But  we  did  go  to  the  hospital,  the  baby 
was  born,  and  Joe — with  an  amazed  look 
on  his  face — stuttered:  "You  said  you 
would  do  it,  and  you  did  it!" 

Joe  understands  my  love  of  show  busi- 
ness. He  even  thinks  I  have  talent,  and 
he  doesn't  want  to  see  me  waste  it.  So, 
whenever  I  get  fidgety  around  the  house, 
from  want  of  work,  he  senses  my  mood. 
"You  ought  to  go  out  and  play  a  club  date 
for  a  few  weeks,"  he  says.  "I'll  check  the 
office  tomorrow  and  see  what  I  can  find." 

But  we're  also  great  homebodies.  We 
decorated  our  Valley  home  together — or 
almost.  First  we  picked  out  the  colors,  and 
some  of  the  furniture,  but  then  it  got  too 
close  to  baby-time  again,  and  we  had  to 
call  in  a  decorator  for  the  finishing  touches. 

And  we  have  a  record  collection  we 
love  to  listen  to,  made  up  of  the  works  of 
Crosby,  Sinatra,  Ella  Fitzgerald,  and  the 
classics,  too.  New  Year's  Eve  at  the  Pev- 
neys'  is  usually  confined  to  a  small  family 
dress-up  dinner.     Then  we  play  records. 

Of  course,  the  show.  So  This  Is  Holly- 
wood, takes  a  good  deal  of  time.  But  it 
isn't  as  demanding  as  some  people  think. 
I've  just  finished  six  days  off  when  I  was 
with  the  children  all  day  long.  On  work 
days,  the  three  older  ones  are  in  school,  so 
I  couldn't  be  with  them,  anyway.  I  see 
them  all  in  the  morning,  in  the  evening, 
and  on  weekends.  They  do  get  plenty  of 
love  and  affection — and  that's  what's  im- 
portant. 

My  brother  and  I  travelled  all  over  the 
country  with  our  parents,  who  had  an  act 
called  Keno  and  Green — everybody  in  the 
business  loved  them.  When  I  was  a  child 
star  at  Paramount,  Will  Rogers  once  told 
me  my  mother  and  father  were  the  most 
loved  people  in  the  business.  My  mother 
danced  in  the  chorus  of  the  Ziegfeld  shows 
with  Mr.  Rogers,  and  later  as  a  solo.  When 
I  think  now  oi  the  wonderful  things  he  said 
about  them,   it  makes   me  mighty   proud. 

I  was  a  regular  mimic  from  the  start — 
as  most  children  are.  I  remember  watch- 
ing George  Whiting's  and  Sadie  Burke's 
act  one  day.  She  told  a  story  about  a  little 
girl  named  Mabel— and  I  ran  to  my  mother 
saying:  "I  can  do  what  Aunt  Sadie  can  do!" 
(The  other  performers  were  all  "aunt"  or 
"uncle"  to  me.) 

"Oh,  really,"  Mother  said,  "show  me."  So 
I  told  her  Aunt  Sadie's  "Mabel"  story.  She 
was  very  surprised.  "That's  wonderful," 
she  said.  "Would  you  like  to  do  it  on  the 
stage?"  I  didn't  need  two  invitations.  My 


dad  went  to  Sadie,  asking  if  I  could  use 
her  material.  She  said,  "Yes."  I  later  told 
my  dad  I  didn't  want  to  do  it  with  them— 
after  all,  it  was  Aunt  Sadie's  act  and  I 
wanted  to  be  out  there  with  her! 

After  my  first  stage  performance  in  Aunt 
Sadie's  routine,  I  didn't  go  on  again  for  a 
while.  My  mother  was  pretty  wise,  and 
very  much  down  to  earth.  She  never  forced 
me  into  anything.  If  I  didn't  feel  like  go- 
ing on,  I  didn't  have  to.  In  fact,  there  were 
times  when  I  got  homesick  for  Long  Island 
and  Mother  said,  "Come  on,  Joe,  let's  take 
a  trip  home  so  Mitzi  can  see  the  kids  .  .  ." 

But  I  was  happy  as  a  child  traveling  with 
my  parents.  Besides,  there  were  other  kids 
on  the  road,  too — I  wasn't  lonesome  for 
playmates.  Today,  people  ask  me  if  my 
children  are  going  to  be  performers.  I  say, 
"That's  up  to  them."  Of  course,  things  are 
different  now  from  when  I  was  growing  up 
— I  seldom  take  my  children  on  the  set 
with  me.  But,  even  so,  I  don't  think  that 
show  children  miss  anything.     I  didn't. 

1  remember,  after  I  learned  Aunt  Sadie's 
routine,  I  also  picked  up  a  skit  from  Moran 
and  Mack,  the  "Two  Black  Crows."  Pretty 
soon  my  reputation  had  reached  the  book- 
ing office — they  wanted  Mother  and  Dad 
and  me  out  as  a  trio.  When  we  auditioned 
for  them,  my  dad  forgot  his  lines  and  I 
cued  him.  It  panicked  the  office.  Needless 
to  say,  we  were  all  on  the  road  together. 

Later,  I  played  the  Orpheum  Theater  in 
Los  Angeles.  One  Sunday,  in  the  hope  of 
spotting  new  talent,  the  "brass"  from  Para- 
mount studio  came  to  watch  the  show. 
Elsie  Janis  saw  me  doing  a  Fannie  Brice 
imitation — a  bit  she  used  to  do — and 
thought  I'd  be  great  for  a  picture  the 
studio  intended  making  called  "Para- 
mount on  Parade." 

But  it  took  them  a  year  and  a  half  to  get 
around  to  making  it — and  I  was  broken- 
hearted. After  all,  I  was  growing!  But  I 
really  should  have  known  better,  for  it 
hadn't  been  too  long  before  that  my  grand- 
mother had  spoken  those  now  famous 
words:   "Everything  happens  for  the  best." 

And  it  did.  Because  I  was  free  at  the 
time — and  lucky — I  signed  my  first  contract 
with  Paramount.  It  happened  this  way: 
"The  Marriage  Playground,"  another  pic- 
ture, was  being  cast.  With  a  change  of 
clothes  over  her  arm,  my  mother  took  me 
into  the  casting  office  to  test.  My  heart 
sank.  There  must  have  been  nine  million 
children  waiting  and  there  I  sat,  a  very 
plain  Jane  with  bangs  and  a  tailored  dress. 
But,  when  the  director  finally  saw  me,  he 
said,  "That's  the  little  girl!"  No  test,  no 
nothing,  just  a  contract. 

I  became  part  of  the  Paramount  studio's 
"stock  company,"  meeting  people  like  Will 
Rogers,  Carole  Lombard,  Jack  Oakie,  Gary 
Cooper,  Eugene  Pallette,  Clara  Bow.  To 
them,  I  was  sort  of  a  mascot.  Wherever  I 
went  on  the  lot,  I  met  people  who  knew 
my  mother  and  father.  Everybody  loved 
them.  Those  days  at  Paramount  are  still 
bright  in  my  memory. 

I  went  to  school  on  the  lot,  too.  Our 
teacher,  Rachel  Smith,  made  schooling  a 
pleasure — everything  I  know,  I  owe  to  her. 
When  there  was  a  big  picture-shooting,  our 
classroom  was  filled.  At  one  time  or  an- 
other, I  went  to  class  with  Ida  Lupino — 
fresh  over  from  England — Jackie  Coogan, 
Jackie  Cooper,  Junior  Durkin  and  Jackie 
Searle.  But,  generally,  there  were  just  two 
in  the  class — Jackie  Searle  and  me. 

"Tom  Sawyer"  was  made  while  I  was  at 
Paramount,  and  playing  Becky  Thatcher 
was  one  of  the  highlights  of  my  career. 
They  gave  me  a  wig  with  long  blonde  curls 
that  made  me  look,  I  thought,  just  the  way 
I  had  always  wanted  to  look!  Oh,  I  was  so 
glamorous — and  all  of  ten  years  old. 

So,  again,  I  can  say  everything  happens 
for  the  best.  If  it  hadn't  been  for  the  delay 


in  starting  "Paramount  on  Parade,"  I 
might  never  have  been  signed  for  my  first 
picture, "The  Marriage  Playground." 

"Everything  happened  for  the  best,"  on 
So  This  Is  Hollywood,  too.  I  was  in  one  of 
my  "go-to-work"  moods  and  had  been  pre- 
paring another  act  for  the  Latin  Quarter  in 
Florida.  It  was  the  Tuesday  before  last 
Thanksgiving,  and  Joe  was  in  San  Diego, 
scouting  locations  for  a  new  picture,  when 
I  got  a  call  from  his  studio  telling  me  that 
agent  Lester  Linsk  wanted  to  know  who 
my  agent  was — he  had  something  he 
wanted  me  to  see. 

I  called  my  agent  to  find  out  what  was 
up.  "A  TV  show  is  cooking,"  he  said. 
"You'll  be  perfect  for  the  part.  Would  you 
like  to  look  at  the  script?" 

"Okay,"  I  said.  A  copy  of  So  This  Is 
Hollywood  came  over  immediately.  Sure, 
it  was  a  cute  idea,  a  cute  script,  I  liked  it 
very  much — and  I  told  the  agent  so. 

"■That's  fine,"  he  said.  "Glad  you'll  do  it. 
It  starts  shooting  Friday!" 

"Wait  a  minute!"  I  said.  "I  haven't  said 
I'd  do  it.  I've  got  to  talk  to  my  husband. 
What  do  I  know  about  television?" 

So  I  made  him  wait  until  I  talked  to  Joe. 
I  finally  reached  him  by  phone  on  a  launch 
sorriewhere  in  the  San  Diego  harbor.  I  was 
worried  about  signing  the  TV  contracts 
and  the  short  time — and  it  was  a  new 
medium  and,  naturally,  I  was  a  little  bit 
afraid.  Joe  said,  real  matter-of-fact,  "Oh, 
if  you  like  the  script,  go  ahead  and  do  it." 

But  every  new  venture  makes  me  nerv- 
ous, and  on  Wednesday  morning  I  still 
hadn't  made  up  my  mind. 

Then  Wednesday  night  the  producer,  Ed 
Beloin,  called.  "Listen,  Mitzi,  we'd  love 
to  have  you  and  I  know  you'll  be  happy 
over  here  .  .  ." 

"Yes,"  I  said,  "but  I  still  don't  know  .  .  ." 

"Look,  don't  worry  about  a  thing.  By  the 
way,  what  size  are  you?" 

"I'm  a  ten:  but  what  has  that  to  do  .  .  ." 

"That's  fine — "  I  still  hadn't  said  "yes," 
but  he  continued — "and  I  would  like  you 
down  here  for  a  fitting.  I'm  so  glad  you're 
going  to  do  it!" 

"But  .  .  ." 

"Tomorrow  morning,  I  want  you  to  see 
our  production  man.  We'll  probably  run 
through  scene  two  and  three  .  .  ." 

"But  .  .  ." 

"And  you'll  want  to  have  your  hair  fixed. 
I'll  set  an  appointment  with  Florence 
Erickson.  You'll  love  Florence,  the  great- 
est hair  stylist  in  the  business  .  .  ." 

I  got  in  one  last  "But  .  .  ."  before  he 
hung  up.  The  next  day,  instead  of  cook- 
ing a  turkey — as  most  Thanksgiving  house- 
wives were  doing — at  9  A.M.,  I  was  sitting 
in  the  studio  chair  having  my  hair  done. 
We  rushed  through  things  so  fast  that, 
Friday  morning,  I  was  being  hit  on  the 
head  with  a  breakaway  bottle — by  a  man 
I'd  never  even  been  introduced  to! 

Since  then,  of  course,  I've  fallen  out  of 
buildings,  into  rivers,  been  hit  on  the  head 
with  every  movable  piece  of  furniture  on 
the  set — and,  at  first,  I  lay  awake  nights 
wondering  if  I'd  come  out  of  the  next  day 
alive  or  not! 

Last  week  I  was  daydreaming  off  into 
space,  thinking,  "What  will  we  have  for 
dinner?  Duck?  Pot  roast?" — just  as  they 
were  about  to  throw  me  into  a  pool. 
Seeing  my  smile,  the  director  said,  "Well, 
Mitzi,  seems  you're  beginning  to  like  it!" 

"I  am  getting  used  to  it,"  I  said. 

Actually,  television  is  a  lot  of  fun.  In 
fact,  it's  proved  to  me  once  again  how 
true  my  grandmother's  words  were: 
Everything  happens  for  the  hest.  It  does. 
Look,  for  example,  how  I  got  into  motion 
pictures;  how,  at  first  meeting,  I  didn't 
like  my  future  husband;  and  how,  in  the 
begiiming,  I  fought  television — now  I 
wouldn't  give  it  up  for  the  world! 


can  be  yours 
for  helping  us 
take  orders  for 


EXTRA  CASH 

magazine  subscriptions.  Write  for  FREE  informa- 
tion. There  is  no  obligation. 

Macfadden  Publications,  205  E.  42  St.,  N.Y.  1 7,  N.Y. 


OO  FOR  A  LITTLE 
SPARE  TIME 

With  NEW  Christmas  Card  Line! 


I 


New  Tall  Cards  I 

(     25jorJ^- 
,30-CirdlBoxj 

5GIFT  WRAPS, 


Make  Toe  profit  on  each  SI  .25  TALL-  Jf  Only  Cardinal 
CARD  "Imperial  Gold"  Christmas  51  Oflers  You 
Assortment  —  $60. OO  cash  on  80 
boxes  easily.  2oO  fastest  selling  card 
assortments,  stationery,  gift  items — 
many  EXCLUSIVES  incladiiig  Per- 
sonalized Christmas  Cards.  Famous 
Doehlaline  color  catalog.  ExtraCash 
Bonus;  Guarantee  assures  up  to  15c 
more  profit  per  box.  l-Free-With-3 
Sample  Offer;  other  surprise  Free  Of- 
fers. Send  coupon  for    ^. ,  , 

sample  kit  NOW.  /^jS"'  "-^""^^^Jsl  BY-THE-YARD 
$1.95  GIFT       /9  Guaianteed  by   ^uiur   iuddiutc 
Prompt  Action.  V^    ^J^^   40  for  f-^  „p 
CARDINAL  CRAFTSMEN 

1400  STATE  AVE.,  DEPT.     29-R,    CINCINNATI  14,  OHIO 

Seod  money-making  kit  of  BaBsortments  on  approval.  FREE 
Personalized  Samples,  other  FREE  Offers. 

Name 

Address 


-  I 


City State-. 


T 
V 
R 

89 


T 
V 
R 

90 


Corns 


Sore  Toes, 
Tender 
Spots 


N£RVE-'i 


Pain  Stops 
FAST! 


No  waiting!  Super- 
Soft  Dr.  Scholl's  Zino-pads  stop  pain  at  its 
source  ever  so  fast  .  .  .  remove  corns  one  of 
the  fastest  ways  known  to  medical  science  . . . 
stop  corns  before  they  can  develop  . . .  ease 
new  or  tight  3hoes  .  .  .  pre- 
vent sore  toes,  blisters.  No 
other  method  does  all  this ! 
For  FREE  sample,  write  Dr. 
Scholl's,  Inc.,  Chicago  10,  111. 


BUNIONS 

DOCTOR'S  FAST  RELIEF! 

To  instantly  lift  painful  shoe 

friction  and  hide  the  unsightly  

bulge,  wear  Dr.  SchoU's  BUNION  REDUCER— a 
cushioning  shield  of  soft  rubber.  Worn  invisibly 
under  stocking.  Helps  preserve  shape  of  shoe.  Only 
75^  each.  At  Drug,  Shoe,  Dept.  Stores  everywhere. 

MAKE  BIG  MONEY  FAST! 

Send  me  your  name  and  address  today  on  a  postcard.  I  will 
send  you  FREE  information  telling  you  how  to  make  BIG 
MONET  in  your  spare  time  by  helping  us  take  orders  (or 
magazine  subscriptions  in  your  neighborhood.  Send  name 
and  address  to:  Macfadden  Publications.  205  East  42  St., 
New  York  17,  N.  Y.  There  is  no  obligation! 


DANCING  SHOES  — SUPPLIES 

Toe  $5.95,  Pads  &  Ribbons  ?1.00;  Ballet 
S3. 29,  Tap  Shoes  With  Toe  Taps.  To  Size  3, 
S4.95.  Larger  $5.45;  Acrobatic  $1.39,  Crepe 
Sole  $1.95.  send  Shoe  Size  and  Foot  Outline. 
Leotards  $3.85.  Sheer  or  Mesh  Opera  Hose 
$4.95,  Mesh  Tights  $7.45.  Hula  Skirts  $3.25. 
Send  Check  or  Money  Order,  No  C.O.D.'s  Please. 

BATON  — DRUM    CORPS    SUPPLIES 

SKATING    SKIRTS—Roller    or    Ice 

Complete    Catalog    15c    (applied    to    purchase; 

QUINCON   DANCE   SUPPLIES 

7    FOSTER    ST..    Dept.    R,    QUINCY    69.     MASS. 


BIZARRE 


BOOK 
SERVICE 

Dept.  120 
40  E.  23rd  St.,  N.  Y.  10,  N.  Y. 
Specialists  in  rare  and  out-of-print 
esoteric  curiosa.  Collectors:  write,  in- 
dicate title,  author  or  subjects  desired. 
Be  sure  to  send  self-addressed 
stamped  envelope  for  reply. 


AMAZE  YOUR  FRIENDS 

tie  BOWS  like  this  EH 

Create  exciting  gift  wrappings. 
Follow  instructions  in  this  book.^ 

Send  onJy^Qj  for  your  copyj 
RIPPL-TIE  Produtts  Company 

2725  WEST  ARMITAGE     •     CHICAGO  47.  ILLINOIS 


NU-NAILS 

ARTIFICIAL  FINGERNAILS 

Cover  short,  broken,  thin  nails 
with  NU-NAILS.  Applied  in  a  jiffy 
with  our  amazing ticm;  quick~dry~ 
ing  glue.  Can  be  worn  any  length 
. . .  polished  any  shade.  Help  over- 
come nail-biting  habit.  Set of  ten 
29c.  At  dime,  drug&  dept.  stores. 
NU-NAILS  CO.,  Dept.  1  6-H 

5251  W.  Harrison,  Chic:aeo44 
Also  Hollywood  Fingernails . . . 
Permanent  Dubonett  l4osc  Color. 
No  polish  required ...  39c  sef. 


A  Family  to  Cherish 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
has  always  been:  "Work — hard  work — 
and  do  the  best  you  can."  So,  with  Mary's 
blessing,  he  accepted  the  role,  went  on  to 
New  York  .  .  .  and  one  of  the  most  coveted 
honors  in  television. 

"If  you  want  to  understand  Bob,"  says 
Mary  Elliot  Cummings,  his  wife  of  ten 
years  and  mother  of  their  four  children, 
"you  have  to  go  back  to  his  early  life  in 
Joplin,  Missouri.  His  father  was  a  small- 
town doctor — a  difficult  life  at  any  time, 
because  of  the  little  money  he  made,  and 
he  was  too  kind-hearted  to  keep  much  of 
even  this  meager  income.  The  first  years 
of  the  Depression  only  magnified  their 
financial  plight." 

Bob,  early  interested  in  aeronautical  en- 
gineering, soloed  when  he  was  still  in  high 
school,  became  a  flight  instructor  at  six- 
teen and,  two  years  after  that,  went  to 
Carnegie  Tech  to  study  engineering.  "The 
Depression  stopped  me  cold  in  the  middle 
of  my  last  year,"  says  Bob.  "Until  then,  I 
had  worked  my  way  through  school  as  a 
Colorado  cowhand,  commercial  flight  in- 
structor, a  Sunday  airplane  bus  pilot  car- 
rying passengers  at  $5  a  ride,  a  soda  jerk — 
and,  in  school,  as  'busboy'  and  carving 
man  behind  the  steam  table.  We  had  beef 
dinners  there  on  Thursdays.  During  the 
Depression,  Thursdays  were  always  my 
fattest  days." 

The  opposite  sides  of  Bob's  character 
were  established  early  in  his  life.  He  left 
school  to  take  a  job  as  a  student  actor  in 
the  American  Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts 
— fully  intending  to  save  his  money  and 
return  to  engineering.  The  acting  job  was 
as  diametrically  opposed  to  his  aptitude 
for  engineering  as  any  job  could  be.  Says 
Bob:  "My  roommate,  a  would-be  actor, 
found  the  job  for  me — it  paid  $14  a  week. 
The  Academy  had  100  girls  for  every  boy. 
In  order  to  put  on  their  plays,  they  had 
to  pay  men  to  come  there  to  study." 

After  the  dramatic  schooling  ended.  Bob 
tried  his  luck  as  a  professional  actor. 
"That  was  during  the  1929-to-1935  ueriod," 
he  says.  "Unless  you  were  British,  you 
couldn't  get  cast  in  any  of  the  Broadway 
shows.  We  had  a  regular  wave  of  British 
plays  on  the  American  stage — 'Journey's 
End,'  'Berkeley  Square' — everything  was 
British.    Except  me.    I  was  too  American. 

"In  utter  desperation,  I  took  $683  from 
a  life-insurance  policy  and  bought  a 
round-trip  steerage  ticket  on  a  slow  boat 
to  England.  I  stayed  there  twenty  days — 
long  enough  to  pick  up  an  authentic  British 
accent.  I  bought  a  British  suit,  had  pic- 
tures taken  in  it,  then  wrote  to  New 
York  producers,  saying  I  was  'Blade 
Stanliope  Conway,  the  youngest  actor- 
author-manager-producer  in  England.'  I 
added  that  I  wasn't  particularly  interested 
in  money,  but  only  wished  the  experience 
of  playing  before  Ajnerican  audiences.  In 
my  letters,  I  gave  the  day  of  my  arrival, 
a  Park  Avenue  address  (that  of  a  friend) 
—and    then   left   for   New   York." 

The  ruse  worked.  Within  a  week, 
"Blade  Stanhope  Conway"  was  in  re- 
hearsal for  Galsworthy's  play,  "The  Roof." 
His  training  in  the  American  Academy  of 
Dramatic  Arts  stood  Bob  in  good  stead — he 
opened  to  good  notices. 

After  five  years  of  being  a  professional 
Englishman  on  Broadway,  plus  playing  on 
radio  as  straight  man  to  Milton  Berle, 
Bob  came  to  Hollywood  on  torn-.  Here  he 
decided  to  make  a  try  at  pictures.  Unfor- 
tiuiately,  he  was  caught  in  a  trap  of  his 
own  making — only  Westerns  and  adven- 
ture yarns  were  being  filmed,  and  Eng- 
lishmen were  no  longer  in  demand. 

So  the  man  of  opposites  changed  char- 


acters again.  "Can  you  imagine?"  says 
Bob.  "When  I  tried  out  for  'Lives  of  a 
Bengal  Lancer,'  the  casting  director  said 
I  was  too  British!  So  I  trooped  off  to  Texas, 
stayed  there  long  enough  to  garner  a 
Southern  accent,  and  then  returned  to 
Hollywood. 

"I  told  everyone  I  was  from  San  Angelo, 
suh,  a  real  rootin',  tootin'  Texan.  In  twen- 
ty-four hours,  I  had  a  role  as  a  Texan  in 
'So  Red  the  Rose.'  After  that,  Hollywood 
began  making  a  series  of  English  pictures. 
'Lloyds  of  London'  was  one.  I  read  for  it 
but  naturally  wasn't  accepted — because  I 
had  just  played  the  role  of  a  Texan.  "Tyrone 
Power  got  the  part.  And  me  with  the 
perfect  English  accent!  It  took  me  two 
years  to  become  my  American  self  again." 

World  War  II  came  along.  Bob  entered 
the  Army  Air  Force  as  a  pilot  instructor 

.  .  and,  shortly  before  his  discharge,  he 
met  Mary  Elliot.  "Photographer  Paul 
Hesse,"  says  Bob,  "was  always  trying  to 
pair  me  off.  He.  called  me  one  day,  say- 
ing, 'I've  just  shot  pictures  of  a  girl 
you  have  to  meet.  I'm  having  a  party 
tonight — how  about  coming  over?'  So  I 
did.  But,  when  I  got  there,  Mary  had 
brought  a  date — about  six-foot-six  tall — 
and  I  think  I  said  hello  to  her  just  once 
in  the  entire  evening.  Hesse  asked  me 
the  next  day  what  I  thought  of  her.  I  said, 
'What  I  saw  of  her  was  fine.' 

"Six  weeks  later,"  Bob  continues,  "I  flew 
a  batch  of  performers  to  Muroc  Air  Base 
for  a  show.  We  were  flying  on  instru- 
ments, trying  to  get  up  out  of  the  moun- 
tains, and  I  couldn't  understand  why  the 
plane  wouldn't  climb!  I  asked  the  co-pilot 
to  look  back  aft.  He  returned,  saying, 
'The  whole  gang  has  formed  a  dance  line 
and  are  practicing  their  routines!' 

"Well,  of  course,  that  couldn't  go  on 
much  longer  or  we  would  all  be  doing 
our  routines — with  wings.  I  had  them 
pile  forward  and  sit  down.  In  the  crush, 
one  of  the  gals  was  shoved  into  our  com- 
partment. I  asked  her  to  come  in — the 
co-pilot  gave  up  his  seat — and  we  talked 
for  a  few  minutes.  But  I  didn't  recognize 
her  as  Mary  Elliot  because  I  was  too  busy 
flying  the  plane,  and  she  didn't  recognize 
me  because  I  had  my  earphones  on. 

"After  the  show,  the  air  base  com- 
mander thanked  the  troop,  then  an- 
nounced, 'I  think  we  ought  to  give  a  round 
of  applause  to  the  pilot  who  flew  you  up 
here  tonight — who  is  also  a  motion  pic- 
ture  actor — Robert   Cummings!' 

"Mary  caught  me  outside  afterwards 
and  said,  'Hi!  How  are  you?  Remember 
me?  I'm  the  girl  at  Paul  Hesse's.'  That's 
how  we  met — again.  I  called  her  when 
I  came  into  Los  Angeles  on  leave  a  week 
later.  A  month  after  that,  I  was  dis- 
charged. And,  a  month  after  that,  we 
were  married!" 

Bob  and  Mary  were  married  by  Bob's 
mother,  a  minister,  on  March  3,  1945,  in 
the  Flyer's  Chapel  at  the  Mission  Inn  in 
Riverside,  California.  "I  was  doing  a 
picture  at  Paramount,"  Bob  adds.  "We  had 
the  whole  afternoon  off  for  the  wedding. 

"In  those  rent-restricted  days,"  he 
says,  "there  wasn't  a  vacant  house,  a  vacant 
apartment,  or  even  a  vacant  room  to  rent. 
Believe  it  or  not,  in  order  to  find  a  place 
to  live,  Mary  and  I  had  to  buy  an  apart- 
ment house." 

Bob's  and  Mary's  first  child,  Robert 
Richard,  was  born  in  1946.  The  small 
family  lived  in  the  apartment  for  two 
years  while  planning  the  home  they  in- 
tended to  build. 

The  home  which  they  built  was  care- 
fully planned  from  the  lowest  cement 
basement  step  to  its  highest  shingle.     The 


thought  which  went  into  this  planning  is 
a  direct  contrast  to  the  scatterbrain  think- 
ing with  which  Bob  has  so  long  been  as- 
sociated on  the  motion  picttire  and  TV 
screens. 

The  house  was  built  with  childhood  ills 
in  mind,  for  the  protection  of  the  young- 
sters— and  their  parents,  too.  As  Bob  says, 
"You  have  to  protect  the  goose  that  lays 
the  golden  egg."  Though  he  doesn't  like 
the  analogy,  he  thinks  it  is  rather  apt: 
"It  was  Mary's  idea  and  she  is  right.  When 
an  actor  is  ill,  he's  out  of  business.  I  just 
can't  afford  to  be  sick.  So  we  had  an 
"isolation  ward'  built — a  special  kitchen 
upstairs,  special  silver,  special  cups  and 
saucers,  everything  for  the  kids'  needs. 
And  I  haven't  had  a  cold  since  we've 
lived  here. 

"Of  course,"  Bob  adds,  "we  still  suffer 
along  with  every  childhood  ailment.  Re- 
cently, they  came  down  with  the  measles. 
First,  it  was  Robert,  now  nine.  Then  it 
was  Mary  Melinda,  7.  And  then,  after  a 
ten-day  incubation  period,  Sharon  Patricia, 
3 — bless  her  little  heart — became  our 
spotted  daughter.  Fortunately,  the  baby. 
Laurel  Ann,  then  only  one  month  old, 
has  a  built-in  anti-measles  machine — 
she  was  not  supposed  to  get  it,  ac- 
cording to  the  doctor,  even  if  exposed. 
But,  believe  me,  we  took  no  chances." 

As  opposed  to  the  comic  character  he 
plays.  Bob  leads  a  quiet,  well-ordered 
life  at  home.  But  there  is  one  aspect  of 
the  Bob  Cummings  Show  which  matches 
his  real-life  personality.  It's  his  sense 
of  responsibiltiy  for  others,  which  is 
touched  on  lightly  in  the  script,  through 
his  relationship  to  his  "sister."  At  home, 
with  his  wife  and  four  children,  Bob's  re- 
sponsibilities are  much  greater.  "When 
you  have  children,"  says  Bob,  "your  at- 
tack on  life  automatically  becomes  more 
intense.  As  a  parent,  you  grow  to  hate 
the  slightest  suggestion  of  immorality.  I 
don't  mean  to  say  that  you  become  a 
prude.  But,  when  you  hear  people  talk 
about  teen-age  delinquency  and  similar 
problems,  you  say  to  yourself  'That  could 
happen  to  my  boy — or  my  daughter!' 

"As  a  consequence,  you  try  to  protect 
them  in  every  way  you  can.  Even  with 
the  more  mechanical  things  in  Ufe,  I  try 
to  teach  them  and  to  protect  them  from 
accidents.  They  all  learned  to  swim — un- 
derwater, too — before  they  could  walk. 
We  have  safety  belts  in  our  plane  and  in 
our  car.  And,  as  soon  as  they  are  old 
enough  to  hold  a  wheel,  I  teach  them  to 
drive." 

The  complete  thoroughness  with  which 
Bob  is  approaching  this  program  of  train- 
ing is  again  in  direct  contrast  to  the  light- 
hearted  comedy  he  plays.  But  thorough 
he  is.  "The  little  car,"  says  Bob,  "is  a 
gasoline-powered  Eshelman  built  in  Balti- 
more by  a  man  who  had  an  ideal:  He 
thought,  'If  every  child  could  learn  to 
drive  before  he  was  ten  years  old,  twenty 
years  from  now  we  would  be  able  to 
eliminate  all  highway  accidents.'  By  in- 
troducing 'children  to  power-driven  autos 
at  an  early  age,  the  edge  is  taken  off  the 
sudden  excitement  of  having  a  car  at 
sixteen — and  the  possibility  of  releasing 
another  untutored,  miiidering,  roaring 
juggernaut  on  the  highway  is  reduced 
to  a  minimxim. 

"All  of  the  children,  except  the  baby, 
can  drive.  They  have  no  fear  of  the  auto. 
In  fact,  they  learn  in  about  five  minutes. 
When  they  can  steer,  I  set  up  an  obstacle 


course  of  aluminum  chairs  and  we  prac- 
tice figure-eights  around  them,  much  as 
the  pilots  did  during  the  war. 

''Speaking  of  airplanes,  everyone  in  the 
family  is  a  'flyer' — including  the  baby.  We 
all  take  weekend  trips  in  our  seven-place 
Beechcraft.  Mary's  had  five  hundred 
hours  in  the  air,  and  she's  a  good  navi- 
gator. As  with  swimming  and  driving,  the 
children  fly  as  soon  as  they  can  get  up  in 
Mary's  arms  and  are  old  enough  to  go  out 
of  the  house  for  a  weekend.  We  don't 
make  a  production  out  of  it — we  just  do 
it,  that's  all.  As  a  result,  the  kids  accept 
air  travel  as  if  it  had  been  going  on  since 
Pharaoh's  time.  As  far  as  they're  con- 
cerned, it's  the  thing  to  do.  Robert,  only 
nine,  can  land  and  take  off  as  well  as  I 
do — if  not  better.  And  because  he's  been 
introduced  to  airplanes  early  in  life,  as 
with  the  car,  he  won't  be  a  daredevil.  He'll 
be  more  cautious  and  probably  a  better 
pilot  than  I  ever  will  be — and  I've  been 
flying  since  1927." 

In  addition  to  his  children.  Bob  is  also 
interested  in  his  fellow  man.  This  is  an- 
other facet  of  his  serious  side  which  the  TV 
audience  does  not  see.  Bob  is  a  crusader 
for  safety  belts  in  every  American  car; 
he  hopes  to  educate  the  public  through 
the  distribution  of  physicist  William 
Harper's  book.  Mangled  Millions;  and  he 
has  a  very  special  little  crusade  to  have 
all  legal  holidays  fall  on  Monday. 

"I  ordered  a  new  safety  belt  for  our 
car,"  says  Bob.  "It's  one  of  the  shoulder- 
harness  type.  Right  now,  there  is  a  bill 
before  Congress  to  make  it  a  federal  law 
that  all  automobiles  engaged  in  interstate 
commerce  must  be  equipped  with  safety 
belts,  and  the  passengers  must  be  wearing 
them.  Life-insurance  companies,  I  think, 
will  soon  offer  lower  premiums  as  an  in- 
ducement to  people  to  wear  the  harness- 
type  belt.  I  know  I  would  gamble  twelve 
to  fifteen  dollars  to  cut  my  chances  of 
being  killed  in  an  accident  by  six  hundred 
per  cent!  I'm  not  interested  in  dying.  I'd 
like   to   be    150   years   old. 

"Physicist  William  Harper  has  written 
this  forty-page  booklet,  Mangled  Millions, 
to  tell  the  public  about  the  dangers  of 
driving.  We  want  to  make  it  available  to 
as  many  people  as  possible.  I  think  that, 
if  enough  people  read  it,  it  will  make  it 
much  more  difficult  for  them  to  forget  that 
100,000  die  each  year — and  literally  m.il- 
lions  are  mangled!" 

Bob's  last  crusade,  putting  all  legal  holi- 
days on  Mondays,  is  a  subject  dear  to  his 
heart.  "Take  July  Fourth  for  example," 
he  says.  "Why  should  we  celebrate  it 
precisely  on  the  fourth?  After  all,  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  was  signed 
on  June  23.  Think  of  what  regular 
scheduled  three-day  holidays  could  do  to 
our  way  of  life:  Our  lives  would  be  more 
orderly,  resort  business  would  be  im- 
proved, the  very  m.ood  of  the  people  would 
be  improved.  It  would  help  business  and 
help  the  country." 

But  it  doesn't  make  any  difference  to 
Bob — the  man  of  opposites,  the  man  of 
many  talents — whether  he's  working  on  his 
crusades  or  on  being  a  family  man,  or 
on  entertaining  his  millions  of  fans.  What- 
ever it  is,  he's  always  working.  "Work, 
hard  work,  that's  the  stuff  for  me,"  he  says, 
with  a  happy  grin.  "I'll  be  satisfied  as 
long  as  I  can  tell  myself  I've  done  the  best 
I  can  with  every  job  I've  had." 

And  the  greatest  job  of  all  is  loving 
and  cherishing  his  family. 


invest  in  your  future — buy 


U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 


join  the  payroll-saving  plan 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-CuLURED. . .  hides  pimples  while  if  works 


DOCTORS'  TESTS  PROVE 
9  out  of  10  cases  cleared  up 
.or  definifely  improved 


Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely  im- 
proved while  using  clearasil. 
Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil  actu- 
ally starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the 
oils  that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  clearasil's 
antiseptic  action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria 
that  can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored 
to  hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless . . .  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 
America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication... because  clearasil  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED 
to  work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or 
money  back.  Only  59*  and  98#.  At  all  druggists- 
Get  clearasil  today. 


J)i!        ru;us.«iAcx£         I  Good  Housekeeping  1 

Now  also  available  in  Canada  (slightly  more) 


"S^ouxkrSilM^ 

PERMANENT  DARKENER* 

TOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 

SWIMPROOF!  One  application  lasts 
4  to  5  weeks!  Our  22ml  year. 


$1.00  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores 


25^ 


SendTOD/»y 
for  tRlAL  size; 


5  "DARK-EVES"  COMPANY,  Depl.  P.75  ' 

I  3319  V/.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III.  | 

I  I  enclose  2S«  (coin  or  slomps-lax  included)  for  TRIAL  SIZE  | 

I  PACKAGE  of 'Dark-Eyes"  with  direclions.  B 


check  shade:  Q  Black  Q  Br 


I  Addrei 

I I  Town-. 


-■■ 


T 
V 
R 

91 


T 
V 
R 

92 


Callouses,  Tenderness,  Pain, 
Burning  at  Ball  of  Foot? 


Ball-o-foot 

Cushion 


LOOPS  OVER  TOE 

QUICK  RELIEF 
BEYOND  BELIEF! 

hAade  of  soft  LATEX 
FOAM  and  NYLON 

You  Actually  WALK 
ON  CUSHIONS! 


It's  entirely  NEW!  Never  before  anything  like  it 
for  relieving  painful  callouses,  tenderness,  burning 
at  ball  of  foot!  The  cushion — not  you — absorbs 
shock  of  each  step.  Dr.  SchoU's  BALL-O-FOOT 
Cushion  loops  over  toe.  No  adhesive.  Flesh  color. 
Washable.  Worn  invisibly.  $1.00  pair  at  Drug, 
Shoe,  Dept.,  5-10(J  Stores  and  Dr.  SchoU's  Foot 
Comfort©  Shops.  If  not  obtainable  locally,  order 
direct,  enclosing  $1.00  and  state  if  for  woman  or  man 
DR.  SCHOOL'S,  INC.,  Dept.  57B,  Chicagro  10,  lU. 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


i 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 
R.  G.  VISCOSE  COMPANY 

140  N.   Dearborn  Street,   Chicago  2,   Illinois 


MAKE  BIG  MONEY! 

Write  today  for  FREE  plan  which  shows  you 
how  to  make  big  money  in  your  spare  time. 
All  you  do  is  help  us  take  orders  for  maga- 
zine subscriptions.  No  experience  needed. 
Send  name  and  address  today.  There  is  no 
obligation. 

MACFADDEN   PUBLICATIONS 
205  East  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y. 


ENLARGEMENT 

Plus  12  Keepsakes 


Glamorous  black  and  white  enlarge- 
ments 8x10  inch  on  double  weight 
portrait  paper  and  gold  tooled  leath- 
erette frames  only  67c  ea.  FREE!  If 
you  order  3  enlargements  you  get 
one  extra  8x10  free  plus  12  small 
size  keepsakes  free.  But  you  must 
hurry.  To  get  the  free  gifts,  rush 
favorite  photos  or  films  at  once.  Be 
sure  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes, 
etc.    for    oil    coloring    information. 

Your  originals  safely  returned.  , ,  , ,    . .   ,  ,  .    ,     , 

Send  no  money.  Pay  postman  plus  C.O.D.  State  choice 
S  .?i^^-  ^™^?  ?L™.Y.'i°"-  *^^'  photos  today.  Act  now. 
DifL  729,   Manil  Art,  lUO  Rooscvdl  R«ad,  Chicaso   11,  Illinois 


/aAi 


^T'«V^^ 


■  ■';■  ,■■> 


^TiiJwi^i*Sii| 


Yes.  it's 
Dr.  R.Schiffmann's 
ASTHMAOOR,  favorite 
inhalant  treatment  for 
bronchial  asthma  victims  everywhere. 
Ignite  the  powder,  or  smoke  it  in  clearette 
or  pipe  mixture  form  and  the  soothing, 
medicated  fumes  bring  blessed  relief.  At 
all  drug  stores  in  U.S.  and  Canada. 


'■n 


ASTHMADOR 


^0 

.■•.A'-.«-"!f<'*'i-  ■'«■* 


The  Long  Way  Home 


(Continued  from  page  68) 
boy  who  had  never  known  anything  else. 

At  three,  he  was  doing  a  song-and- 
dance  routine  with  Field's  Minstrels,  and 
at  fifteen  he  was  a  member  of  a  showboat 
company  on  the  Mississippi.  His  folks, 
however,  did  like  a  little  town  in  Illinois, 
named  Mattoon,  enough  to  settle  there  for 
increasingly    longer   times    between    tours. 

It  was  during  one  of  these  "settled 
down"  periods  in  Mattoon,  when  Tom  was 
fourteen,  that  he  went  to  a  kids'  party  and 
met  Bernice  Wood,  then  an  already  pretty, 
maturing  twelve.  She  was  dressed  in 
something  blue,  her  skirt  a  good  deal 
longer  than  her  mother's  (it  was,  after  all, 
1926),  and  from  the  time  he  got  to  the 
party  he  couldn't  keep  his  eyes  off  her. 
He  was  glad  he'd  worn  his  new  two-toned 
shoes.    He  looked  like  a  real  sheik. 

By  ten-thirty  that  evening,  the  party 
had  progressed  to  the  "post-office"  stage 
and,  when  finally  he  got  her  in  the  closet 
in  the  dark,  he  planted  a  firm  kiss  on  her 
lips  and  said,  "You  may  not  believe  this, 
Bo,  but  I'm  going  to  marry  you  when  you 
get  old  enough!" 

1  here  is  no  record  of  her  reply.  Possibly 
she  giggled  and  said,  "Write  it  on  the  ice," 
or  "So's  your  Aunt  Emma" — very  hep  re- 
plies in  those  days.  Anyway,  his  technique 
worked,  because  he  kissed  her  again  on 
her  front  porch,  and  made  a  date  with  her 
for  the  following  Saturday. 

It  was  almost  seven  years  after  that 
evening  when,  bringing  Bo  home  from  a 
movie  to  that  same  front  porch,  he  sat  on 
the  top  step  beside  her  and  said,  "You're 
old  enough  now,  Bo.  How  about  it?" 

She  knew  what  he  meant,  but  she  had  to 
play  hard  to  get,  just  a  little.  "Old  enough 
for  what?" 

"For  me.  Well,  Bo?" 

"Why  else,"  she  said  then,  abandoning 
all  pretense,  "have  I  been  sitting  here 
waiting,  these  seven  mortal  years?" 

It  wasn't  quite  as  simple  as  that,  of 
course.  Bo  had  always  been  a  homebody, 
a  girl  who  wanted  a  stable  family  life, 
with  a  husband  whose  whereabouts  she 
could  be  sure  of,  and  a  house  she  could 
keep  and  tend  and  make  a  home  in,  and 
children  to  care  for.  She  was  pretty  sure, 
now,  that  Tom  would  stay  put.  He'd  stayed 
in  Mattoon  long  enough  to  finish  high 
school,  Marion  Military  Institute,  De  Pauw 
University,  the  University  of  Illinois,  and 
twenty -two  months  at  Annapolis. 

And,  for  a  long  time,  it  seemed  that  her 
security  was  real.  Tom  got  a  job  in  radio, 
first  in  Tuscola,  Illinois,  and  later  in  Chi- 
cago, on  a  big-time  network.  The  baby 
finally  came  along,  at  long  last,  about  the 
time  Tom  began  making  more  money. 

The  little  family  was  supremely  content. 
As  the  years  passed,  Tom,  Jr.  grew  tall 
and  started  showing  signs  of  being  a  fine 
athlete.  They  bought  and  furnished  a  home 
in  Northfield,  and  Tom  worked  at  his  job, 
and  there  was  laughter  at  midnight  and 
in  the  mornings  when  Tom  and  Bo  were 
together. 

And  then  it  happened.  "I  don't  know 
quite  how  to  explain  it,"  Tom  told  me, 
ruefully.  "It  was  one  of  those  things  that 
happen  when  you're  in  this  business.  Sud- 
denly there  was  all  that  success,  and  I  had 
so  many  things  on  my  mind  and  so  much 
to  do,  that  Bo  and  I  just  never  seemed  to 
be  together  any  more.  We'd  always  been 
so  close,  before.  Now  I  was  away  most  of 
the  time,  traveling  around,  and — even  aft- 
er eighteen  years  of  marriage — Bo  and  I 
began  to  see  each  other  as  strangers." 

That  wasn't  really  true,  of  course.  It  was 
only  that  they  had  been  so  very  close  to 
one   another,   physically   and    emotionally, 


so  sure  of  the  warmth  of  their  companion- 
ship and  love  and  shared  happiness — so 
terribly  dependent  on  one  another — that 
they  saw  their  new  situation  as  out  of 
context  with  ordinary  living.  Most  mar- 
ried couples,  less  interdependent,  less 
deeply  in  love,  could  have  accepted  the 
changed    circumstances    in    stride. 

It  didn't  work  for  Bo  and  Tom.  He  began 
to  put  his  career,  his  incredible  success, 
ahead  of  Bo's  wishes  and  her  requirements 
as  a  wife  and  mother.  .  .  Bo,  bewildered 
by  a  situation  she  had  never  before  en- 
countered, was  alternately  patient  and 
furious,  until  finally  she  didn't  know 
what  to  be.  .  .  .  There  were  a  few  tor- 
mented months  of  wrangling  and  deep 
misery.  Then,  by  mutual  consent,  they 
parted  and  Bo  got  her  divorce.  .  . 

Tom  Moore  is  not  the  kind  of  man  who 
can  live  alone.  Still  bristling  with  pride 
and,  perhaps,  a  sense  of  outrage,  he  be- 
gan to  see  more  and  more  of  Willie  Lou, 
the  girl  from  Georgia  whom  he  had  known 
and  liked  for  some  time.  I  don't  think  it's 
any  discredit  to  Lou  that  Tom  says,  now, 
"She  reminded  me  of  Bo.  She  looked  a  lit- 
tle like  her,  and  she  was  always  laughing, 
just  as  Bo  was — " 

It  seems  evident  enough  now  that  all 
Tom  wanted  was  to  go  home,  even  then, 
but  he  was  too  proud  and  stubborn  to  ad- 
mit it.  Instead,  he  married  Lou,  and  for 
almost  three  years  it  seemed  as  if  he  had 
exchanged  one  degree  of  happiness  for 
another,  just  as  good.  Lou  did  everything 
within  her  power  to  give  him  happiness. 
She  learned  to  water-ski  when  she 
couldn't  even  swim,  because  Tom  was  fas- 
cinated with  the  sport.  She  went  on  camp- 
ing trips,  accompanied  Tom  and  Tom,  Jr. 
on  wild  pig  and  turkey  shoots. 

It  may  seem  strange  that  it  took  them 
both  more  than  three  years  to  find  out  that 
it  wasn't  working  for  them.  And  it  took 
additional  months  of  misery  and  endless 
talk  and  tears  before  they  knew  that  di- 
vorce was  their  only  answer. 

It  was  then,  only  then,  that  Tom  went 
to  Bo  in  Northfield  and  said,  "We  made  a 
mistake.  How  about  it,  darling?" 

When  she  didn't  answer  at  once  he  said, 
"It's  been  over  three  years.  What've  you 
been  doing  all  this  time,  Bo?" 

She  smiled.  "Waiting  here,"  she  said. 
"Waiting  for  you  to  come  home.  .  .  ." 

So,  this  summer,  when  Tom,  Jr.  finishes 
at  Shattuck  Military  Academy  in  Minne- 
apolis, he  will  stand  with  his  father  and 
mother  in  a  little  Illinois  church  while  the 
minister  who  married  his  mother  and 
father  twenty-three  years  ago  again  re- 
unites them  in  a  marriage  that  was  meant 
from  the  beginning  to  last  forever. 

Then  Tom  and  Bo  will  have  to  decide 
about  their  future.  Tom's  contract  with 
Mutual  will  still  be  in  effect;  he  will  still 
be  talking  to  millions  of  women  through 
more  than  500  station  outlets  across  the 
country.  And,  besides,  he's  bought  a  radio 
station  in  Winter  Haven,  and  is  beginning 
to  build  houses  on  a  contracting  deal. 

That  means  they  may  not  be  able  to 
spend  as  much  time  as  they  used  to  in  the 
old  Northfield  house,  but  no  matter.  Bo 
has  had  time  to  do  some  thinking  on  her 
own,  and  she  isn't  so  set  against  move- 
ment and  change  any  more. 

Of  course,  Lou  received  Tom's  Florida 
house  and  other  material  property — there 
is  no  reason  to  print  the  terms  of  Tom's 
settlement  with  her.  But  Tom  has  the  an- 
swer to  that  little  problem,  too.  "I'm  build- 
ing Bo  a  new  house  here  in  Florida,"  he 
said.  "Northfield  or  Florida,  wherever  Bo 
is,  that's  home  to  me.  And,  in  a  few 
months,    that's   where   I'll   be  .  .  .  home." 


Never  a  Dull  Moment 


(Continued  from  page  57) 
days,"  he  says,  "and  then,  ten  days  later, 
I  got  out  of  bed  and  did  the  back  yard." 

Their  ranch-style  home  is  painted  in 
Pennsylvania  Dutch  red  with  white  trim- 
mings. Their  furnishings — like  Judith 
herself — are  noted  for  an  air  of  serenity. 
Put  it  all  in  a  picture -postcard  and  you've 
set  the  scene  for  the  family  of  a  success- 
ful, happy  young  businessman,  rather 
than  an  actor.    But  .  .  . 

It's  a  complex  hut.  Larry  is  a  serious 
but  never  somber,  imaginative  but  not 
whacky,  lively  but  never  frivolous  kind  of 
guy.  "He's  volatile,"  says  Judy.  "There's 
never  a  dull  moment  with  him.  He  makes 
decisions  on  the  spur  of  the  moment.  He 
walks  at  a  run  and  he  does  nothing  half- 
way. If  he's  tired,  he  takes  a  ten-minute 
nap  then  snaps  back  like  a  rubber  band." 

"The  bxit  has  to  do  with  the  actor's  ego,'" 
Larry  says,  "which  keeps  you  living  in  a 
couple  or  more  worlds.  Now,  I  remember 
when  I  was  overseas  in  an  anti-aircraft 
outfit  and,  the  first  night  we  were  in  com- 
bat, I  climbed  out  of  the  control  dugout 
where  I  was  supposed  to  stay.  Like  an 
officer  in  the  movies,  I  figured  my  place 
was  with  my  men.  And  then  one  of  the 
men  came  up  to  me  and  said,  'Lieutenant, 
we  can't  fire.  You're  standing  right  in 
front  of  the  gun.'  So  I  went  back  to  my 
dugout,  but  my  actor's  ego  was  sure  try- 
ing hard  to  be  a  hero." 

In  his  part  of  Chris  Kendall,  on  CBS- 
TV's  Valiant  Lady,  there  is  a  bit  of  the 
swashbuckler,  a  worldly,  sophisticated 
quality,  a  trace  of  glamour.  'This  is  not 
accidental,  either.  It  is  all  part  of  the 
complex  make-up  of  Lawrence  Weber. 

Larry  is  Uterally  a  child  of  the  theater. 
An  uncle  was  one-half  of  the  famous 
Weber  and  Field  comedy  duo.  Larry's 
mother  was  Edith  Hallor,  a  Ziegfeld  star 
and  one  of  the  most  beautiful  singing 
actresses  of  her  day.  She  sang  in  Victor 
Herbert  productions  and  opposite  such 
greats  as  John  Charles  Thomas.  Larry's 
father,  Lawrence  Weber,  Sr.,  was  a  thea- 
trical producer. 

His  parents  were  divorced  when  he  was 
an  infant,  and  Larry  was  raised  by  his 
father.  He  was  soon  as  much  at  home  in 
a  box  office  and  backstage  as  he  was  in  a 
nursery.  He  traveled  widely  and  met 
famous  people  in  business  and  government 
and  the  arts.  Among  his  father's  friends 
and  his  "uncles"  were  such  men  as  Arthur 
Hammerstein  and  the  Shuberts.  He  lived 
in  a  fashionable  Park  Avenue  apartment. 
He  had  a  nurse  and  a  governess  and  tu- 
tors. He  was  a  lonely  boy.  Many  of  his 
best  friends  were  the  service  men  in  his 
apartment  building,  elevator  boys  and  the 
doorman,  and  cab  drivers. 

He  "prepped"  at  Horace  Mann  School, 
where  one  of  his  friends  and  classmates 
was  Keenan  Wynn.  It  was  there  that 
Larry  won  a  silver  cup  in  the  senior  box- 
ing division.  "The  pride  over  the  boxing 
cup  lasted  only  ten  minutes,"  Larry  notes. 
"Right  after  I  got  it  at  a  school  assembly, 
a  guy  who  had  neglected  to  sign  up 
for  boxing  walked  up  to  me  and  said, 
'You're  not  so  tough,'  and  knocked  me 
down." 

In  his  early  teens,  Larry  already  had  his 
heart  set  on  being  an  actor.  His  father 
wasn't  very  encouraging.  "Fathers  are 
funny,"  Larry  observes.  "They'll  back 
you  up  in  everything  except  the  career 
you  choose.  They  never  trust  your  judg- 
ment there." 

But  Lawrence,  Sr.  got  Lawrence,  Jr.  his 
first  job,  which  was  in  summer  stock  at 
Deer  Lake,  Pennsylvania.  In  the  same 
company  was  another  youngster,  beauti- 
ful Celeste  Holm.     Larry  was  fifteen. 


"My  first  part  was  that  of  the  servant, 
Mose,  in  'Pursuit  of  Happiness,'  and  my 
father  came  down  to  see  me."  He  re- 
calls: "I  was  anxious  to  impress  him.  It 
was  one  of  the  important  auditions  in  my 
life."  After  the  show,  Larry  drove  his 
father  to  the  station  to  catch  a  train.  His 
father  said  simply,  "Son,  you've  got  it." 

He  asked  only  that  Larry  finish  his  edu- 
cation, and  Larry  tried.  He  got  as  far  as 
college  at  New  York  University,  and  stuck 
through  his  first  year,  before  he  quit  to 
go  into  stock  again.  A  little  over  a  year 
later,  he  appeared  in  his  first  Broadway 
play,  "The  Man  Who  Killed  Lincoln,"  and 
the  play  opened  in  his  father's  own  thea- 
ter. 

Larry  has  appeared  in  other  Broadway 
productions — "My  Romance,"  "Of  Thee  I 
Sing,"  "Courtin'  Time,"  "Hazel  Flagg."  It 
is  not  sheerly  coincidental  that  these  are 
musicals — and  therein  lies  a  story.  For 
years,  Larry  had  been  kept  doing  things 
about  his  voice.  "You  know,  people 
would  hear  me  sing  and  say,  'You've  got  a 
fine  voice.  You  should  do  something 
about  it.'  " 

His  voice  teachers  were  most  enthusias- 
tic. In  Larry  they  thought  they  had  a 
great  big,  strong  tenor,  and  in  the  operatic 
business  a  great  big,  strong  tenor  is  as 
rare  as  solvency.  A  man  who  can  roast 
peanut  heaven  with  a  high  C  names  his 
own  price.  "So  I  kept  studying  to  be  a 
tenor,"  Larry  says,  "but  some  friends  sug- 
gested I  was  a  baritone." 

One  of  the  teachers  insisted  that  Larry 
beg,  borrow  or  steal  to  get  to  Paris  and 
make  his  start  as  a  tenor  in  French  opera. 
She  was  so  insistent  that  he  felt  he  had 
to  prove  a  point,  so  Larry  sang  for  John 
Fearnley,  who  was  auditioning  singers  for 
the  musical  "South  Pacific."  Mr.  Fearnley 
listened,  and  then  Mr.  Fearnley  said, 
"Thank  you,  Mr.  Weber.  We  will  con- 
sider you  for  the  understudy  of  Ezio 
Pinza."  And,  as  the  world  knows,  Ezio 
Pinza  is  quite  a  baritone. 

At  that  precise  moment,  Larry  gave  up 
thoughts  of  opera,  but  he's  never  stopped 
studying  voice,  for  one  of  his  ambitions 
is  to  succeed  as  an  actor-singer.  He  hopes 
that,  one  of  these  days,  Chris  Kendall  may 
have  a  chance  to  sing.  "Chris  is  one  of 
my  favorite  parts,  anyway,"  he  says.  "A 
story  like  Valiant  Lady  is  concerned  with 
beauty  and  warmth,  and  I  enjoy  doing  it." 

There  is  a  lot  of  excitement  in  playing 
the  role  of  an  airline  pilot,  and  it  isn't  all 
in  the  make-believe.  Things  happen.  For 
instance,  there  was  the  day  that  Flora 
Campbell  made  her  debut  as  Helen  Emer- 
son. "I  remember  telling  her  how  ex- 
tremely well-coordinated  and  smooth  the 
production  was,"  Larry  grins. 

That  day,  the  script  called  for  Flora  to 
be  at  the  airport  anxiously  awaiting  Lar- 
ry's arrival.  Larry  was  piloting  his  plane 
from  Johannesburg  and  was  in  somewhat 
desperate  circumstances.  Larry  and  his 
co-pilot  were  flying  blind,  lost  over  the 
ocean.  They  were  in  one  of  the  worst 
storms  of  the  season.  They  hadn't  much 
fuel — maybe  enough  to  fiU  a  half-dozen 
jelly  glasses.  And  the  radio  wasn't  work- 
ing.   And  one  engine  was  on  fire. 

There  was  a  camera  on  Flora  at  the  air- 
port, and  two  on  the  cockpit  of  the  plane 
itself.  There  were  a  total  of  ninety 
"camera  cues"  in  eleven  minutes  of  script 
— or  an  average  of  about  one  cue  every 
seven  seconds,  which  calls  for  mighty 
quick  thinking  and  the  closest  kind  of 
coordination.  Naturally,  nerves  were  on 
edge  and  the  situation  was  very  tense. 

"There  was  a  humorous  side  to  all  this, 
for  I  had  told  Flora  how  easy  it  always 
was.     But  she  was  amused,  too.     After  it 


Eileen 
Parker 

.  .  .  lovely  singing  star  of 
Don  McNeill's  TV  Breakfast 
Club  for  IV2  years  .  .  .  ac- 
claimed by  thousands  for  her 
singing  of  your  favorite 
hymns. 

Sings  your  favorite  HYMNS 
on  New  Enduring  Records 


SEND  NO  MONEY-Hear  These 
Inspiring  Hymns  in  Your  Own  Home! 

Let  Eileen  Parker  bring  the  light  of  ioy  into  your 
home  with  her  world-renowned  singing  of  these 
lovely  sacred  songs,  just  as  she  sang  them  on  the 
Breakfast  Club.  Don't  send  money — just  circle  your 
favorite  hymns  on  the  coupon  below,  and  mail  now. 
We'll  rush  the  records,  and  when  they  arrive,  just 
pay  postman  $1.50  for  each  record  ordered,  plus 
small  postage  and  C.O.D.  fees,  and  the  records  are 
yours  to  enjoy. 

Unconditional  Money-Back  Guarantee 

Unless  you're  thrilled  and  delighted  by  Eileen's 
hymns,  return  the  records  and  we'll  refund  every 
cent  you  paid,  at  once!  Each  record  will  endure  for 
many  years.  Available  on  standard  78  RPM  or  45 
RPM  records. 

Select  Titles  Below  and  Circle  on  Coupon 


Understands 

n    Evening  Prayer— 

^    Living  for  Jesus 


M    Rugged  Cross  —  No  One 


Ever  Cored  For  Me  Lil<e  Jesus 

5   My  Cathedral— Why  I  Pray 

O   Heartoches  —  Some-     f.    In   The   Garden  —  Go   To 
•»   Hnu   Ho'll   Mnko   It     O   Church  Every  Sunday 


day   He'll   Moke   I 
Plain 


T    Softly  and  Tenderly — 
'     Another  Door  Will  Open 

Mica  Recording  Co.,  108  N.  State  St.,  Dept.  1056,  Chicago  2,  III. 


Send  No  Money— Mai/  Coupon  NOW! 


Mica  Recording  Co.,  108  N.  State  St.,  Dept.  1056,  CliicaEO  2,  III. 
Rush  me  Eileen  Parker  Hymn  Records  I  have  circled 
below.  I'll  Day  postman  SI. 50  for  each  record  plus 
small  postage  and  C.O.D.  charge.  If  not  delighted,  I 
may  return  records  for  full  immediate  refund.  (Enclose 
payment  and  we  pay  postage.  Same  guarantee.) 
Circle  Record  No's,  below:  Check  speed: 

1234567         0  78  RPM     D  45  RPM 

Addres9-._ . 

City , - State 


iiNisHHIGH  SCHOOLniW^ 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train-  1 
ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.   Friendly  \ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for^ 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded. 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-25 
2S27  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  IllinoiSy 


w    ^    w    w     w 

Want  to  Get  Rid  of    ' 
Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
Freckles,  Skin  Spots?] 


Famous  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  amazing  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream?  NIGHT  PLAN  to  a  whiter,  softer, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time -tested  plan  for  over  40  years  —  you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now! 


I 


Lightens  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spats  almost 
overnight. 


IV  ^'f.,*^  MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


T 
V 
R 

93 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain—' Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *Beg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off. 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 


A  few  drops  of  OUTGRO®  bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  Ingrown  nail.  OUTGRO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.   OUTGRO  is  available  at  aU  drug  counters. 


ASTHMA  RELIEF 


Ask  for  free  booklet  "The  Problem  That  Torments 
Thousands" ,  also  Information  about  our  10  day  Free 
Sample  of  Nephron  Inhalant.  Bronchial  Asthma  spasms 
relieved  quickly  (usually  within  one  minute).  Most 
stubborn  cases  respond.   Write  - 

NEPHRON,  305A  Wostena  Terrace,  Ridgewood,  N.  J. 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata- 
log pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma- 
ternity fashions.  World'3  Largest.  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  %22.9S, Catalog  mailed  in  plain  envelope. 

C  RAWFORD'S 

Dept  35,  8015WornallKansasCityl4,Mo. 


'''How  to  Make  Money  with 
^.^^^   Simple  Cartoons'' 


obligation.  Simply  address 


ARTOONISTS'  EXCHANGE 
Dept.  597  Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 

THIS  AD  IS 
WORTH  MONEY! 

Let  us  show  you  how  to  make  big  money  in  your 
spare  time  by  helping  us  take  orders  for  maga- 
zine subscriptions.  Write  today  for  FREE  money- 
making    information: 

MACFADDEN     PUBLICATIONS 
205  E,  42nd  St.,  New  York   17,  N.  Y. 


^ENLARGEMENT 

*  o/youf  Fai/of/fe  Photo 


T 
V 
R 

94 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOUYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

,  Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
ity 5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
shot, photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
ment beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10<f  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  F-81 
7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd.,   Hollywood   38,    Calif. 


was  over,  she  asked,  'Now  what  do  we  do 
for  an  encore?'  "  (Incidentally,  during  the 
whole,  taut  performance,  there  wasn't  a 
cue  missed  or  a  line  of  dialogue  lost.) 

Larry's  previous  television  experience,  to 
mention  a  few  shows,  includes  Kraft  Thea- 
ter, Love  Of  Life,  Studio  One,  and  Rob- 
ert Montgomery  Presents.  But,  to  trace 
the  first  meeting  of  Larry  and  his  wife 
Judy,  you  must  go  back  to  the  very  early 
days  of  his  career — back  in  1939,  when 
both  were  acting  in  stock  companies.  The 
circumstances  were  not  unusual — but  the 
people  were. 

"We  were  rehearsing  for  a  summer  thea- 
ter at  Wilkes-Barre,"  Larry  recalls.  "Most 
of  us  were  together  for  the  first  time."  He 
and  Judith  Cargill  were  complete  stran- 
gers, but  she  didn't  want  to  keep  it  that 
way.  At  rehearsal  she  introduced  herself. 
"I  remember  my  reaction,"  Larry  says.  "I 
remember  turning  to  a  friend,  after  Judy 
went  back  to  her  corner,  and  saying,  'I 
wonder  who  that  old  girl  is?'" 

The  "old  girl"  was  barely  twenty-one 
and  fresh  out  of  the  American  Academy 
of  Dramatic  Arts.  She  had  been  raised  in 
Milwaukee  by  a  non-show-business  fam- 
ily. She  was  a  brilliant  student  who  broke 
scholastic  records  and  won  scholarships 
everywhere.  But,  when  Judy  graduated 
from  the  Academy,  she  had  a  notion  she 
was  destined  to  do  character  parts — and 
she  dressed  like  one.  "At  rehearsals," 
Larry  recalls,  "she  was  usually  over  in  a 
corner  half-hidden  behind  owlish  glasses 
and  a  book." 

Luckily,  they  were  to  play  summer 
stock.  Summer  meant  hot  days,  and  hot 
days  meant  that,  when  they  arrived  at 
Wilkes-Barre,  one  of  the  first  things  the 
company  did  was  to  head  for  a  lake  and 
a  swim.  "And  when  I  saw  Judy  in  a  swim 
suit,"  says  Larry,  "I  knew  positively  that 
she  wasn't  an  'old  girl.'  " 

rJy  fall  they  were  unofficially  engaged. 
The  following  summer,  Larry  had  a 
diamond  stickpin  of  his  father's  converted 
into  an  engagement  ring  for  Judy.  In 
January  of  1941,  they  were  married,  and 
moved  into  a  small  apartment  until  Larry 
was  drafted. 

As  an  enlisted  man,  Larry  was  stationed 
most  of  his  first  two  years  in  Panama.  As 
an  officer,  he  spent  the  next  couple  of 
years  in  Europe.  His  outfit  was  on  the 
beach  at  Normandy  and  then,  for  a  few 
weeks,  he  fought  the  "Battle  of  Cham- 
pagne" in  Paris,  finally  'moving  to  the 
much-bombed  port  at  Antwerp. 

Judy  was  working  in  a  noisy  medium, 
too — though  in  quite  a  different  sense — for 
that  was  when  she  did  radio  work  in  a 
big  way.  Today,  she  is  among  the  top  ten 
or  so  "most  employed"  television  and  radio 
actresses.  In  the  past  few  months,  she  has 
been  seen  on  Justice  and  the  Philco  and 
Ford  dramatic  programs,  to  name  a  few. 
Since  stock  days  at  Wilkes-Barre,  she  has 
appeared  in  two  Broadway  shows,  "Years 
Ago,"  with  Fredric  March,  and  "How  I 
Wonder,"  with  Raymond  Massey. 

Judy  Cargill  Weber  is  a  stunning  young 
woman  who  could  be  a  hving  testimonial 
for  either  of  Larry's  sponsors  on  Valiant 
Lady.  She  has  lustrous  reddish  brown 
hair,  which  should  be  a  smiling  matter  for 
Toni,  and  she  bakes  delicious  chocolate 
cakes — which  certainly  shouldn't  makel 
General  Mills  mad. 

"And  she's  got  it  up  here,"  Larry  says, 
tapping  his  forehead.  "When  we  tuned  in 
to  the  old  Information  Please  program,  she 
not  only  answered  questions  before  the  ex- 
perts, but  most  of  the  time  she  answered 
questions  they  couldn't!" 

There  are  three  other  members  of  the 
Weber  household:  Jay,  seven,  David,  four 
— and  Penny,  a  kind  of  miniature  Dober- 
man  who  barks  every  time  Larry  comes  on 
TV.     Jay  was  legally  named  Judith,  after 


her  mother  and  so,  for  a  while,  they  called 
her  Judith,  Jr.,  then  J.  J.  and  now,  simply. 
Jay.  Larry  still  carries  in  his  wallet  the 
first  note  Jay  wrote  him.  Whenever  Jay  is 
reprimanded  by  her  mother,  she  turns  to 
Judith,  Sr.,  and  says,  "You're  upsetting 
me."  And,  whenever  Jay  thinks  Larry  is 
singing   too   loudly,    she    reprimands   him. 

As  for  living  in  the  suburbs,  Larry  says, 
"My  wife  and  I  prefer  the  city,  but  we 
moved  out  for  the  children's  sake."  David 
has  made  great  strides  in  the  country.  He 
has  discovered  that  all  you  do  to  kiss  a 
girl  is  ask  her  to  say,  "Prunes" — and  he  is 
improving  the  diction  of  most  little  girls 
in  the  neighborhood. 

For  economical  reasons,  the  Webers  en- 
joy do-it-yourself  projects.  They  painted 
their  house,  dug  vegetable  and  flower  gar- 
dens, converted  a  dining  table  into  a  cof- 
fee table,  put  up  shelves,  and  decorated 
the  kids'  rooms.  Perhaps  their  most  in- 
genious do-it-yourself  project  was  making 
do  without  a  television  receiver.  That  was 
during  their  first  summer  in  the  country, 
when  they  sat  on  the  lawn  and  focused 
binoculars  on  a  neighbor's  set. 

"We  found  his  taste  in  shows  agreeable," 
Larry  recalls,  "but  he  hadn't  made  any 
provision  for  keeping  us  warm  when  sum- 
mer passed,  so  we  had  to  move  inside  and 
buy  our  own  set." 

Their  home  is  furnished  in  a  pleasant 
potr-ourri  of  modern  and  Victorian  and 
needlepoint.  The  reason  for  this  is  that 
mucl:  of  their  furniture  has  been  in- 
herited. 

As  you  come  through  the  front  door  into 
the  foyer,  you  walk  into  a  pair  of  Dickens 
silhouettes  and  Judy's  family  crest  from 
Rolleston-On-Downs.  About  this  time,  if 
you  are  partial  to  olives  or  grass,  you  feel 
at  home — for  Judy  is  partial  to  green.  All 
of  the  carpeting  downstairs  and  parts  of 
the  walls  in  the  living  and  dining  rooms 
are  green.  There  are  two  antique  mir- 
rors on  the  parlor  wall  and — symbolic  of 
Judy's  desire  to  visit  England — a  decora- 
tive map  of  London. 

The  bedroom  walls  are  papered  in  cheer- 
ful blues  and  yellows.  David  has  plaid 
and  Jay  has  pussy  willows.  The  master 
bedroom  boasts  a  couple  of  massive,  state- 
ly English  bureaus,  with  marble  tops, 
which  Larry  inherited  from  his  father.  The 
bedroom  also  serves  as  the  music  room: 
"We  have  no  piano,  and  so  I  just  go  into 
the  bedroom,  close  the  door  and  sound  off." 

Larry  enjoys  music  and  will  sing  when 
he's  showering  or  when  he's  weeding  the 
garden.  It  hasn't  damaged  the  plumbing, 
and  his  vegetables  and  flowers  did  well, 
except  for  the  aforementioned  apple  tree. 

"This  is  a  different  kind  of  life,"  Larry 
observes,  "at  odds  with  the  kind  of  show 
business  my  parents  knew."  It's  not  just 
the  fooling  around  with  cucumbers  and 
rutabaga.  There's  the  continual  putter- 
ing and  repairing  of  the  house,  as  well  as 
the  teaching  of  Sunday  school.  There's 
the  business  of  getting  up  between  six  and 
seven-thirty,  a  time  when  self-respecting 
actors  of  other  days  were  just  going  to 
bed.  Larry  and  Judy  take  turns  getting 
the  beef  tea  and  toast  for  their  kids,  so 
that  every  other  day  one  parent  gets  to 
sleep  until  eight — except  on  days  when 
Larry  is  in  Valiant  Lady.  Those  days,  he 
must  be  up  before  six,  in  order  to  make 
the    eight-thirty   rehearsal   in   Manhattan. 

But  Larry's  not  complaining  about  the 
hours  or  the  uncooperative  apple  tree  or 
the  lack  of  seats  on  his  commuter  train. 
He  just  smiles  and  says,  "You  know,  they 
say  artists  are  supposed  to  suffer."  Then, 
more  seriously,  he  adds:  "I've  got  a  lot 
to  be  grateful  and  happy  about  .  .  ." 

As  Judy  has  phrased  it,  "There's  never 
a  dull  moment  with  Larry."  But  it  makes 
for  peace  and  contentment  in  the  Weber 
family,  and  that's  just  the  way  they  love  it. 


The  Magic  of  Erin 


(Continued  from  page  54) 
programs — her  Columbia  album  of  twelve 
recordings  would  carry  her  voice  all  over 
America  and  even  back  to  her  native 
Ireland.  That  she  would  sing  in  American 
night  clubs  where  sons  and  daughters  of 
Elrin,  long  years  away  from  home — but  not 
ordinarily  frequenting  American  night 
clubs — would  come  hesitantly  but  hun- 
grily to  hear  the  old  melodies,  feeling 
almost  as  if  they  were  back  across  the 
sea  once  more,  moved  by  the  memories 
Carmel's  songs  stirred  up  in  them. 

There  had  been  dancing,  too,  in  those 
days  of  Carmel's  growing  up.  Some  of  her 
relatives  disapproved  of  her  wanting  to 
dance,  but  this  was  also  in  her  heart,  and 
she  could  no  more  keep  her  feet  from 
following  the  music  than  she  could  her 
voice.  She  used  to  slip  off  to  dancing 
classes,  worrying  her  sister  Betty — a  year 
and  a  half  her  senior — who,  while  she 
sympathized  with  Carmel's  ambitions,  felt 
an  older  sister's  responsibility  toward  her. 

Carmel  would  love  every  minute  of  the 
classes — until  there  came  the  inevitable 
day  when  the  teacher  would  begin  to 
prepare  the  pupils  for  some  little  charity 
performance  or  a  hospital  benefit.  "Public 
performances  meant  costumes,  and  that 
meant  exit,  for  me.  Because  of  them.  I  left 
more  dance  classes  than  I  can  remember. 
Without  confessing  to  the  family,  there 
was  no  way  of  my  getting  a  costume.  But, 
up  to  that  point,  I  always  had  a  mar- 
velous time." 

Singing,  of  course,  was  something 
different — as  long  as  it  wasn't  professional. 
So  Carmel  went  on  singing,  all  the  years 
she  was  becoming  a  pretty  and  slim  young 
woman  of  five-foot-six,  with  masses  of 
waving  auburn-red  hair,  gentle  blue  eyes, 
and  a  speaking  voice  so  soft  and  melodious 
it  would  charm  a  bird  off  a  branch.  (Even 
now,  when  she  comes  out  on  the  stage  of 
the  television  theater,  audiences  gasp  a 
little  at  how  much  prettier  she  is  in 
person  than  she  actually  photographs.  "It's 
better  that  way,  than  that  they  should  be 
disappointed,"    she    says.) 

Then  Carmel's  sister  Betty  married 
Christy  Keough,  who  knew  people  in  the 
theater,  especially  in  Dublin's  famous 
Theater  Royal.  Christy  heard  that  the 
Royal  was  looking  for  a  girl  singer,  and 
he  told  Carmel  about  it,  made  an  appoint- 
ment for  an  audition,  and  off  they  went. 

Her  voice  still  carries  some  of  the  excite- 
ment  of   that  first   audition,   as   she   talks 


about  it.  "Up  to  this  time,  I  was  just  fool- 
ing around  with  my  singing,  but  this  was 
a  real  job  and  I  got  more  scared  every 
minute,  as  we  waited  my  turn.  There  were 
a  lot  of  girls  ahead  of  me — and,  about 
three  quarters  through,  I  suddenly  ran  out 
of  the  theater,  with  Christy  at  my  heels, 
urging  me  to  come  back.  It  was  dreadful 
of  me,  after  him  getting  the  appointment. 
He  made  another  one  for  the  next  day,  and 
I  promised  to  see  it  through. 

"There  was  another  long  line-up  of  girls, 
all  sopranos,  all  singing  bits  of  operatic 
songs,  the  same  as  the  day  before.  This 
man  who  was  listening,  an  Englishman 
who  is  a  fine  musician  and  showman,  kept 
stopping  them  short  in  the  middle  of  a 
song  and  saying,  'Leave  your  name  and 
address,  please.'  He  seemed  to  be  getting 
more  and  more  bored.  I  could  see  it  was 
the  same  old  story  to  him.  I  wondered 
what  would  happen  when  my  turn  came." 

Memories  of  that  afternoon  surging 
through  her  mind,  Carmel  says:  "The  less 
you  know,  the  simpler  life  is.  Now  I  am 
learning  that  it  isn't  as  simple  as  I  thought 
then.  I  was  so  very  young,  so  green,  so 
inexperienced.  I  had  walked  in,  without 
music — the  other  girls  all  carried  music 
cases.  My  hands  were  thrust  into  my  coat 
pockets.  The  other  girls  were  dressed  up. 
I  wore  my  simple  everyday  clothes.  No  one 
at  home  even  suspected  I  was  auditioning 
for  a  job. 

"I  was  the  last  of  the  girls  that  day,  and 
I  could  see  how  tired  this  man  was  get- 
ting. He  asked  what  I  was  going  to  sing 
for  him,  and  I  answered,  'Anything.'  Can 
you  imagine  anyone  saying  such  a  thing 
at  an  audition?  When  he  wanted  to  know 
what  music  I  had  with  me,  I  had  to  tell 
him  I  had  brought  nothing. 

"  'You  must  be  wonderful,'  he  said,  and 
I  heard  the  sarcasm  in  his  voice.  'You 
can  sing  anything,  and  you  need  no  music! 
Do  you  know  Brahms'  Lullaby?'  I  had 
learned  it  at  school  but,  because  I  had 
never  taken  singing  lessons,  I  had  never 
been  coached  in  any  songs.  I  said  I  could 
sing  it,  and  he  asked  what  key.  'Any  key,' 
I  told  him.  Now  he  was  really  annoyed. 
'You  must  be  marvelous!'  He  looked 
toward  the  organist  who  was  going  to  ac- 
company me.  'Play  it,'  he  said. 

"To  this  day,  I  don't  know  what  in- 
spired me  to  sing  an  octave  lower  than 
the  accompaniment,  which  was  keyed  to 
a  soprano.  Perhaps  it  was  because  my 
voice    is    naturally    lower    than    that,    but 


Carmel  and  her  husband  Bill  first  met  in   Dublin  when  she  sang  in 
one  of  his  ballrooms,  were  married  in  1953,  and  have  a  "wee  baby." 


Gehtle 

Ex-Lax  Helps 

YOUR  CHILD  TOWARD 

His  Normal 
Regularily 


AT  BEDTIME  give  your 
child  America's  best- 
tasting  laxative— choco- 
lated Ex-Lax.  There 
will  be  no  fuss  because 
it's  so  pleasant  to  take. 

IN    THE    MORNING 

he'll  get  gentle  relief  — 
the  closest  thing  to 
natural  action.  No  up- 
set, no  griping,  no  em- 
barrassing urgency. 


NEXT  DAY— Ex-Lax  will  continue  to  help  your 
child  toward  his  normal  regularify.  He'll  hardly 
ever  have  to  take  Ex-Lax  again  the  next  night! 

Buy  The  New  65^  Size  — Save  As  Much  As  37< 

Also  available  in  304  and  124  sizes 

EX-LAX 

THE    CHOCOLATED    LAXATIVE 


MORE  PEOPLE  USE  EX-LAX  THAN  ANY  OTHER  LAXATIVE 


HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY! 

I  am  going  to  show  you  a  simple  plan  by 
which  you  can  pick  up  enough  extra  money 
every  week  to  help  you  pay  for  extra  nylons, 
blouses,  and  all  the  other  accessories  that 
make  a  girl's  life  happier.  Just  send  me  your 
name  and  address  for  FREE  information  on 
how  to  make  money  taking  magazine  sub- 
scription orders.  No  obligation.  Macfadden 
Publications,  205  East  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


SWINGING 

"Hot  Canary" 

EARRINGS 

ONLY  $1.00 

We   Pay  Tax 

The  adorable  lifelike  ca- 
naries ACTUALLY  SWING 
back  and  forth,  perched 
inside  each   of  these   ex-    . 

citing,  attractive  earrings.  The  hoops  are  generous  sized, 
in  a  brilliant  gold  color  finish.  The  colorful  canaries  are 
made  of  feather-like  material  in  bright  red,  yellow  and  blue. 

Satisfaction  Guaranteed  or  Money  Back 
Thev  add  that  finishing  touch  to  any  ensemble,  and  their 
eye-catching  "swing-and-sway"  motion  stirs  up  excite- 
ment and  gay  conversation  whenever  you  wear  them.  Screw- 
back  style.  You'll  be  delighted.  Add  15c  to  each  pair 
ordered    for    postage    and    handling:.    No    C.O.D.'s    please. 

Dobbs  Products  Co. ,900  W.Lake  St.,  Dept.  365,  Chicago?  J II. 


DOUBLE  YOUR  EARNINGS  WITH 

ChristmasCard  Bargain  Specials 


SELL 
50  CARD  ^ 

ASSORTMENT 


SUPPLY 
LIMITED! 
ORDER 
EARLY! 


Get  $1.25  e  A«f 
Boxes  for  3  Vr 


Get  FREE  List  of  Factory  Surplus  Greeting  Card  \ 

Bargains  and  make  the  biggest  profits  ever,  while 
supply  lasts.  Christmas.  Everyday,  Religious, 
Wraps  included.  All  first  quality.  Also  Free  Color 
Catalog,  over  200  newest  Card  Assortments  and 
Imprints,  Gifts  and  Gadgets.  Amazing  Catalog 
Shopping  Plan.  No  experience  needed.  We'll  send 
Bargain  List,  4  new  1955  boxes  on  approval  and 
Personalized  Samples  FREE,  if  you  write  atonce. 

MIDWEST   CARD   COMPANY 

1 1 13  Washington  Ave.  Dept,  419-B,St.  Louis  1,  Mo. 


T 

V 
R 

95 


more  probably  it  was  because  I,  too,  was 
tired  by  then  of  listening  to  all  those  high 
notes.  He  listened  attentively,  and  some 
of  his  boredom  seemed  to  fall  away  and  he 
let  me  finish.    And  he  gave  me  the  job." 

It  was  the  beginning  of  facing  audiences 
and  of  forgetting  herself  in  her  music,  of 
learning  to  remain  completely  natural  on 
any  stage.  After  the  Royal  engagement, 
she  sang  in  other  theaters  and  ballrooms 
in  Dublin  and  in  London.  In  Dublin,  a 
yoimg  man  named  Bill  Fuller  gave  her  a 
job  in  his  Crystal  Ballroom,  and  later 
Carmel  sang  in  his  London  ballrooms.  To- 
day, Bill  says  he  fell  in  love  with  Carmel 
the  first  time  he  saw  her,  but  she  was  too 
career-minded  then  to  think  of  romance. 
Two  years  later,  however,  Carmel  said  yes 
to  Bill's  proposal  and  they  were  quietly 
married  in  London  on  April  20,  1953. 

Of  course,  Carmel  was  still  devoted  to 
her  singing.  She  had  long  engagements 
with  Johnny  Devlin's  orchestra  and  the 
famous  Ambrose  orchestra,  and  she  made 
her  radio  debut  on  the  BBC. 

All  the  while,  however,  the  leprechauns 
went  on  whispering,  telling  her  to  save 
her  money  and  go  to  America.  Bill's  own 
business  interests  kept  him  going  back  and 
forth  across  the  Atlantic  and  he  felt  sure 
that,  if  Carmel  could  get  over  her  fright 
about  American  audiences,  she  would  do 
very  well.  There  were  close  friends  of 
the  Quinns  with  whom  they  could  live  in 
New  York  and — while  Bill  was  over  here 
to  help  her  get  started — she  decided  to 
chance  it  and  fly  over — for  a  visit,  at  least. 
That  was  in  March  of  last  year.  Her  family 
was  almost  too  excited  to  realize  she  was 
really  going,  and  she  wasn't  feeling  any 
too  calm  about  it  herself — especially  since 
she  was  expecting  her  first  child  in  three 
months. 

Not  having  sung  professionally  for  a  few 
months  before  leaving  Ireland,  she  decided 
she  might  need  coaching  before  she  faced 
new  audiences.  Freddie  Romano,  a  voice 
coach,  listened  to  her  one  day  and  liked 
her  voice.  "But  now  we  must  teach  you  a 
nice,  popular  American  number,"  he  said. 

She  went  to  him  several  times.  "He 
was  a  very  good  coach  and  very  kind  and 
helpful  to  me,  and  one  day  he  telephoned 
to  say  my  name  was  down  for  a  Talent 
Scouts  audition,  on  the  following  Wednes- 
day. He  said  that  he  felt  I  was  ready  for  it. 

"I  had  been  listening  to  radio  and  watch- 
ing television  and  wondering  if  I  would 
ever  have  a  chance  to  be  on  them.  I  was 
thrilled — and    scared,    too.    We    rehearsed 


and  rehearsed  the  number  I  was  going  to 
sing — a  popular  melody,  '^Vhat  Is  This 
Thing  Called  Love?'  It  was  the  first  song 
Mr.  Romano  had  taught  me.  But,  when  it 
came  time  for  the  audition,  Esther  StoU 
of  the  Godfrey  staff — a  wonderfully  expert 
and  understanding  person — suggested  that 
a  girl  from  Dublin  ought  to  do  an  Irish 
song. 

Carmel  looked  at  the  pianist,  Graham 
Forbes.  He  had  never  heard  the  melody 
she  named,  but  he  followed  her  flawlessly 
and  everyone  seemed  pleased.  They  asked 
her  to  return  the  next  day  to  sing  for 
some  of  the  others. 

Jack  Carney  (Art  Carney's  brother)  was 
one  of  them,  and  he  suggested  a  little  song 
he  knew.  She  said  she  knew  it,  too,  but 
she  sang  it  in  Gaelic,  the  only  way  she 
had  ever  sung  it  at  home.  They  didn't 
seem  to  mind  that,  at  all,  and  she  was 
asked  to  return  that  night  for  a  third 
audition.  So,  once  more,  she  sang  some  of 
her  Irish  songs,  and  then  they  told  her 
she  would  be  on  the  Talent  Scouts  pro- 
gram the  following  Monday,  October  18. 

"I  was  a  wreck  by  this  time,"  Carmel 
smiles,  "after  three  auditions  in  two  days! 
The  excitement  was  getting  me  down.  I 
had  never  dreamed  they  would  put  me  on 
so  fast.  Others  had  waited  months  before 
the  right  spot  for  them  opened  on  a  show. 
Here  I  was,  going  on  before  I  scarcely 
knew  what  was  happening  to  me!" 

Mary  Corrigan,  Carmel's  cousin,  who 
had  come  to  America  a  year  before  she 
did,  acted  as  her  Scout — and  made  such 
a  personal,  hit  on  the  show  that  Carmel 
thought  she  herself  would  never  get  a 
chance  to  perform.  "I  thought  Mary 
would  be  shy,  but  she  felt  at  home  with 
Mr.  Godfrey  right  away  and  he  liked 
her  and  they  got  along  famously.  She  is 
one  of  fourteen  children,  and  they  talked 
about  life  in  a  big  family  of  kids  in  Ireland. 
I  was  the  last  to  appear — and  there  I  was, 
waiting,  wondering  if  they  would  ever  get 
finished  before  the  time  was  up." 

Carmel  finally  came  out,  and  sang  "How 
Can  You  Buy  KiUarney?"  The  audience 
loved  it  and,  when  it  came  to  the  "curtain 
calls"  of  all  the  talent  —  and  of  course 
Carmel  was  last  again — she  never  even 
got  to  open  her  mouth  because  of  the 
applause.  She  couldn't  believe  it  was  hap- 
pening, and  she  just  stood  there  crying 
with  excitement  and  happiness. 

"Mr.  Godfrey  saw  how  it  was  with  me, 
and  he  came  over  and  patted  me  and  put 
his  arm  around  my  shoulders.  I  can't  find 


96 


I  learned  about 
MY  OWN  DAUGHTER! 

Countless   lisfeners   have   been   amazed  to   learn 
vital  things  about  their  own  families  on  radio's  "My 
True    Story."     The    reason    is    that    this    thrilling 
program    presents  moving  stories  that  are 
as   real   as  life   itself — taken   right  from   the 
files  of  "True  Story  Magazine."    So  be 
sure    to  hear    these    emotion-packed    dramas 
that  may   help  you  to   a    better  understanding 
of  the  ones  you   love! 

TUNE  IN 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

Her  demands  for  luxuries  pushed  him  into  a  life  of  crime.    Read  "THEY  SENT 
HIM   TO   PRISON"   in  July  TRUE   STORY   MAGAZINE  at   newsstands   now. 


words  to  say  how  good  he  was  then,  and 
how  good  he  has  been  ever  since." 

Even  with  all  the  help  and  kindness 
Carmel  has  had  from  everyone  —  from 
Godfrey  and  all  the  others  responsible  for 
the  programs,  from  husband  Bill,  who  hay 
been  managing  her  career— all  this  is  still 
just  a  bit  overwhelming  for  a  girl  in  her 
twenties  who  has  been  in  this  country  only 
a  little  more  than  a  year  and  has  shot  right 
up  to  one  of  the  top  entertainment  spots 
and  become  a  personality  known  to  mil- 
lions. When  the  St.  Patrick's  Day  program 
of  Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends  was 
built  around  her  last  March,  she  wondered 
how  she  could  possibly  be  good  enough  to 
live  up  to  all  the  things  that  were  ex- 
pected of  her. 

The  very  next  evening,  March  17,  she 
gave  a  St.  Patrick's  Day  concert  of  her 
own  in  Carnegie  Hall — a  name  synony- 
mous with  great  musical  talent  for  several 
generations  —  and,  once  more,  she  was 
afraid  she  could  not  live  up  to  it.  But, 
on  both  evenings,  the  thing  happened  that 
always  happens  to  Carmel  Quinn  —  she 
faced  all  those  people  and  forgot  every- 
thing but  the  joy  of  making  music  and 
knowing  that  it  was  bringing  joy  to  others. 

When  Carmel  came  here,  her  brother- 
in-law  Christy  warned  her  that  New 
York  is  a  hard  place  and  she  must  not  let 
anyone  ask  her  to  do  more  than  she 
reasonably  could.  She  hasn't  found  it 
hard,  but  she  sometimes  misses  the  long 
walks  she  took  at  home,  and  the  window- 
shopping,  and  stopping  for  tea  with  the 
girls  while  they  talked  about  the  new 
clothes  they  had  bought.  Now  she  scur- 
ries from  place  to  place  in  taxis,  and  buys 
clothes  wherever  she  can,  on  the  run! 
Weekdays,  her  routine  is  getting  up  at 
6:30  A.M.  for  early  rehearsals  at  the  CBS 
studio,  and  going  to  bed  at  9:00  P.M.  so 
she  can  look  and  do  her  best  the  next 
morning.  Every  spare  moment  and  every 
weekend,  however,  are  devoted  to  her  lit- 
tle daughter,  Jane  Ann,  who  is  just  one 
year  old.  With  true  motherly  pride,  Carmel 
says  Jane  is  a  darling  child  and  very  good. 
"And  I'm  so  pleased  that  Jane  looks  exact- 
ly like  Bill."  Carmel  is  sure  Jane  will  be 
musical,  too.  "Already,"  she  says,  "when 
we  put  Jane  near  the  television  set,  she 
dances  in  time  to  the  music." 

Carmel  and  Bill  now  have  their  own 
apartment  in  uptown  New  York,  within 
easy  driving  distance  of  their  work.  In  ad- 
dition to  being  Carmel's  manager.  Bill 
owns  a  restaurant  called  The  Dublin, 
which  is  located  in  mid-Manhattan. 

Sometime  this  summer,  Carmel  hopes  to 
go  back  to  Dublin  for  a  visit.  To  see  the 
green  of  the  Emerald  Isle — "like  no  other 
green  in  the  world."  To  see  her  daddy, 
who  is  so  excited  about  her  success — 
and  can  hardly  wait  to  see  little  Jane — 
that  he  can  talk  of  little  else.  To  see  Betty 
and  Christy  and  their  little  girl,  and  her 
brother  Naoish  and  his  wife,  and  her 
brother  Kevin  and  his  wife  and  children. 

"At  first,  I  planned  to  surprise  them 
with  a  visit,"  she  says.  "I  thought  it  would 
be  dramatic  to  walk  in  unexpectedly.  Now 
I  know  that  would  not  be  fair  at  all.  But 
when  I  go  back,  if  I  can't  walk  in  and 
sit  down  and  visit  a  while  and  talk,  and 
then  do  the  things  I  alvvays  did  at  home — 
like  sweeping  the  floor  and  helping  with 
the  dishes  and  all  the  things  like  that — 
it  will  not  seem  like  home. 

"I  want  to  remember  just  how  I  felt, 
so  long  ago,  when  I  stole  away  to  sing 
and  dance  in  that  cold  little  pantry — and 
saw  myself  in  America,  up  on  a  stage.  And 
to  think  about  all  the  wonderful  things 
that  have  been  happening  to  me  ever 
since,  and  to  take  time  to  be  grateful  for 
them." 

Sure  the  leprechauns  must  be  waiting 
there  for  Carmel  Quinn! 


e  a  u 


u  I    c/ta t 


C 


K 


THERE     ARE     THREE     BRECK     SHAMPOOS 
FOR    THREE    DIFFERENT    HAIR    CONDITIONS 

You  will  enjoy  using    a    Breck  Shampoo    because    it   cleans 


in  action  to  be  used  on 
Breck    Shampoos.     One 

Another  Breck  Shampoo 
Shampoo    is    for    normal 


thoroughly,    yet   is  gentle  enough 

little   children.     There    are    three 

Breck  Shampoo   is  for  dry   hair. 

is   for   oily   hair.     A    third    Breck 

hair.     The  next  time  you  buy  a  shampoo,  select  the  Breck 

Shampoo  for  your  individual  hair  condition.  A  Breck  Shampoo 

leaves   your   hair   clean,    shining   and    naturally   beautiful. 

The  Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 


JOHN        H        BRECK 
NEW  YORK 


MANUFACTURING        CHEMIST 
CHICAGO  ■  5AN  FRA 

Copyright  1955  by  John  H.  Breck  Inc 


SPRINGFIELD        ; 
CISCO  O    T    T 


MASSACHUSETTS 
W    A  CANADA 


That  ^oi:^  Look 


Young  America  has  it 
ydu  ean  have  it  in  7 days! 


Baby's  in  the  pink  .  .  .  with  That  Ivory  Look! 

Why  not  you?  Pure,  mild  Ivory  cherishes 

her  pink  and  precious  skin  .  .  .  yours,  too! 

For  the  milder  your  beauty  soap,  the  prettier 

your  skin  .  .  .  more  doctors  advise  Ivory 

for  your  complexion  than  any  soap! 


I 
f 


«;M 


**    •• 


You're  in  the  swim  .  .  .  with  That  Ivory  Look! 
Start  cleansing  your  skin  regularly  with  pure, 
mild  Ivory.  In  7  days  see  it  perk  up  .  .  . 
look  younger,  fresher,  finer.  It's  the 
pink  of  perfection — That  Ivory  Look! 


99.tt%  pure.it  floats 


More  doctors  advise  Ivory  than  any  other  soap 


THAT  IVORY  LOOK 


YOUNG   AMERICA    HAS    IT... 

YOU    CAN     HAVE    IT    I N     7    DAYS! 

Polka-dot  tot  .  .  .  she  has  That  Ivory  Look ! 

And  isn't  it  a  pretty  look  for  you  to  have?  Remember, 

the  milder  your  beauty  soap,  the  prettier 

your  skin.  More  doctors  recommend  pure,  mild  Ivory 

for  Baby's  skin — and  yours — than  any  other 

soap !  Ivory  takes  care  ...  so  tenderly ! 


s* 

1 

^^^g-^wl^        .'1^'^ 

^^^nSf          m  •» 

'^^S           J0^^f**'*»m»^ 

fm 

m 

^^^iHHRI 

w- 

I 


l/,J^t1=4 


It's  like  getting  one  FREE!  4  cakes 

of  Personal  Size  Ivory  cost  about 

the  same  as  3  cakes  of  other  leading 

toilet  soaps.  It  all  adds  up  .  .  . 


PERSONAL    SIZE     IVORY    IS    YOUR     BEST     BEAUTY    BUY! 


New!  Doctor's  deodorant  discovery 
now  safely  stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


> 


J.    Imi, 


I 


4 


/^Guaranteed by*^     This  Seol  Certifies  that  New  Mum  with  M-3 

Good  Housekeeping 

^^««Bi.st»:o£22>^     won't  irritate  normal  skin  or  damage  fabrics 


Even  if  you're  as  busy  as  a  nurse  —  de- 
pendable New  Mum  keeps  you  fresh ! 
This  original  doctor's  formula  now  con- 
tains M-3,  an  invisible  ingredient  that 
keeps  on  destroying  odor  bacteria  24 
hours  a  day. 

New  Mum  is  so  dependable— it's  used 
by  more  women  than  any  other  deodor- 
ant or  anti-perspirant !  Gentle,  safe  . . . 
New  Mum  contains  no  harsh  astringents 


.  . .  will  not  block  pores  or  irritate  nor- 
mal skin.  Delicately  fragrant  and 
creamier  — stays  moist  in  the  jar. 

Good  Housekeeping  Magazine  ac- 
cepts New  MUM...  certifies  it  will  not  rot 
fabrics  of  any  kind.  Also  approved  by 
the  American  Institute  of  Laundering. 

So  change  to  dependable  New  MUM 
today!  At  any  toiletry  counter  in  the 
milk-white  jar  with  the  bright  red  cap. 


New  Mum 


® 


cream  deodorant 


with  long-lasting  M-3 


(hexachlorophene) 


Proved  in  comparison  tests  made 
by  a  doctor.  A  deodorant  without 
M-3,  tested  under  one  arm,  stopped 
perspiration  odor  only  a  few  hours. 
Yet,  New  Mum  with  M-3,  tested  un- 
der the  other  arm,  stopped  odor  for 
a  full  24  hours. 


-  «««««■  It 


JH::^ 


Another  fine  Product  of  Bristol-Myers 


lainpdX 
IuIIH 


in  a  ftw  words : 


// 


// 


The  purpose  of  Tampax  is  jo 
give  women  generally  more 
comfort,  convenience  and 
freedom  during  that  period 
each  month  when  sanitary  mm 
protection  is  needed.  ** 

Tampax  was   perfected   by   a 
physician  who  used  the  prin- 
ciple   of    internal    absorption 
long   known    to    the   medical  mm 
profession.  §^ 


II 


Tampax  is  made  of  pure  sur- 
gical cotton  contained  in  pat- 
ented throw-away  applica- 
tors for  easy  insertion.  Your 
hands  need  not  touch  the  ti 
Tampax.  •• 


AA  Tampax  is  many,  many  times 
§W  smaller    than    the    external 
forms  of  protection.   Further- 
more, it  requires  no  belts,  pins   «j 
or    other    supporting    devices.  ^^ 

**  No  odor  with  Tampax.  And  it 
mm  cannot    create    bulges,    ridges 
or  edgelines  which  otherwise 
might  "show"  through  snugly  «« 
fitted  suits  or  dresses.  ^^ 


II 


II 


Tampax  cannot  be  felt  by  the 
woman  or  girl  while  wearing 
it.  And  you  need  not  remove 
it    while    tubbing,    showering    «» 
or  swimming.  MM 

Buy  Tampax  at  drug  and  no- 
tion counters  in  3  absorben- 
cies:  Regular,  Super,  Junior. 
A  month's  supply  will  go 
right  into  your  purse.  Econo- 
my box  will  last  four  months 
(average)  ....  Tampax  lacot-  MB 
porated.  Palmer,  Mass.  •# 


AUGUST,  1955 


TV 


MU>IO 
MIRROR 


VOL.  44,  NO.  3 


7V.F.,  N.].,  Conn.  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan   Clarke,   Art   Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


people  on  the  air 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  6 

Always  in  Harmony  (The  McGuire  Sisters) by  Martin  Cohen  29 

It's  on  the  Record  (Martin  Block) by  Ira  H.  Knaster  32 

Meet  Linda  Porter  (Gloria  Louis) by  Alice  Francis  34 

New  Star  in  the  Sky  (Gary  Crosby) by  Maxine  Arnold  36 

Happy,  Happy  Time  (Patti  O'Neill) by  Lilla  Anderson  38 

With  a  Smile  in  His  Voice  (Jack  Smith) by  Ed  Meyerson  42 

The  Heart  Knows  Best  (Paul  Dixon) by  Helen  Bolstad  48 

No  Time  for  Love   (Eydie  Gorme) by  Philip  Chapman  56 

The  Road  Of  Life  (picture  story  from  the  beloved  dramatic  serial)....  58 
Those  Whiting  Girls! 

(Barbara  and  Margaret) by  Fredda  Dudley  Balling  62 

Spotlight  on  Announcers  (Ralph  Paul,  Jack  Lescoulie, 

Julia   Meade,    Rex   Marshall) 64 

Most  Sincerely  Yours    (Ted  Mack) by  Gladys  Hall  66 


features  in  full  color 


The  Doctor's  Wife  (short-short  story  from  the  popular  daytime  drama)  44 

The  Colmans  of  Ivy  (Ronald  and  Benita) by  Bud   Goode  46 

Her  Life  Is  a  Song  (Betty  Clooney) by  Frances  Kish  50 

A  Very  Lucky  Lady  (Flora  Campbell) by  Mary  Temple  52 


your  local  station 


Laughs  Unlimited  ( WNEW) 4 

Master  Cut-up  (WSYR,  WSYR-TV) 12 

Girl  on  the  Go  (WMOA,  WCEF,  WPAR) 16 

Doubly  Delightful   ( WABC-TV) 26 


your  special  services 


Information    Booth 8 

Steve  Allen's  Turntable H 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 14 

Daytime  Diary 1" 

New  Designs  for  Living   (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 20 

Inside   Radio    (program  listings) 72 

TV  Program  Highlights 74 

Cover  portrait  of  The  McGuire  Sisters  by  Jay  Seymour 


»: 


buy  your  September  copy  early  •  on  sale  August  4 


PUBLISHED  moNTHLY  by  Mactadden  Publications,  Inc.,  New 
fxecJtive,   advertising   and   editorial  offices  at 

??r  Fist  42nd  street,  New  Yorlt,  N.  Y.  Editorial  Branch 
n«i.n?-  -121  South  Beverly  Drive,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.,  and 
§?lNirth  La  Salle  Street,  Chicago,  111.  Irving  S.  Manheirner. 
D5.r=irt2nt-  Lee  Andrews,  Vice  President;  Meyer  Dworkin. 
Sec?etaS^'and   Treasurer.    Advertising  offices   also   in  Chicago 

SM^RS^SlfrmN^RATES:  S3. 00  one  year,  U.  S.  and  Posses- 
^■"?r  ..„,i  r'lnida    S5  00  per  year  for  all  other  countries. 

l''ii-as^t^Jf^as-y%"5r-n^■^"J^Sd?|i?"w!le^rx^^SS<^o= 
&s<?R°rPT^s"-^'A.irant'/<rrfpts^ST.ll°/'*caJI^ffy|.-nsidered^ 
E'urp"u%uXT''iafm„t  be  responsible  ' or^^r  °o(  "thT'^RUE 


is  advisable  to  Iteep  a  duplicate  copy  for  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self-addressed 
return    envelopes    or   with    sufficient    return    postage    will    be 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17, 
N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Douglas  Lockhart, 
Vice    President, 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  June  28,  1954,  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York.  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3, 
1879  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail.  P.  O.  Dept,  Ottawa, 
Ont  .  Canada.  Copyright  1955  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc. 
All  rights  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention. 
All  rights  reserved  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion Todos  derechos  reservados  segun  La  Convencion  Pan- 
Americana  de  Propledad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  ^ademai^ 
registered  In  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Company. 
STORY    Women's    Group 


And  who  would  blame  her?  After  all,  is 
there  anything  worse  than  to  be  stuck 
with  a  man  who  has  halitosis  (unpleas- 
ant breath)?  So,  this  joker  is  already 
on  the  way  out .  .  .  and  he  had  dreamed 
of  this  date  for  weeks. 

How  dumb  can  you  he?  How  dare  any- 
one assume  that  his  breath  is  always 
okay?  Halitosis  comes  and  goes  .  .  . 
absent  one  day,  present  the  next.  You 
may  be  guilty  without  realizing  it.  And 
even  your  best  friend  won't  tell  you. 
Men  are  all-too-common  offenders. 

Why  risk  bad  breath  needlessly  when 
Listerine  Antiseptic  is  such  a  quick, 
delightful,  and  efficient  precaution 
against  it? 

No  tooth  paste  kills  odor  germs 
like  this  . . .  instantly 

Listerine  Antiseptic  does  for  you  what 
no  tooth  paste  can  possibly  do.  Listerine 
instantly  kills  germs  ...  by  millions  .  .  . 
and  germ  reduction  is  the  answer  to 
sweeter  breath. 


The  most  widely  used  antiseptic  in  the  world. 


You  see,  far  and  away  the  most  com- 
mon cause  of  offensive  breath  is  the 
fermentation,  produced  by  germs,  of 
proteins  which  are  always  present  in 
the  mouth.  And  research  shows  that  your 
breath  stays  sweeter  longer,  the  more  you 
reduce  germs  in  the  mouth. 

Listerine  clinically  proved 
four  times  better  than  tooth  paste 

No  tooth  paste,  of  course,  is  antiseptic. 
Chlorophyll  does  not  kill  germs — but 
Listerine  kills  them  by  millions,  gives 


you  lasting  antiseptic  protection  against 
bad  breath. 

Is  it  any  wonder  Listerine  Antiseptic, 
in  recent  clinical  tests,  averaged  at  least 
four  times  more  effective  in  stopping 
bad  breath  odors  than  the  tooth  pastes 
it  was  tested  against? 

With  proof  like  this,  it's  easy  to  see 
why  Listerine  belongs  in  your  home. 
Every  morning  .  .  .  every  night  .  .  . 
before  every  date,  make  it  a  habit  to 
always  gargle  Listerine,  the  most  widely 
used  antiseptic  in  the  world. 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC  STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  limes  belter  Ihan  any  leelh  paste 


laugh  Unlinifed 


Gene  Klavan  and  Dee  Finch:  For  two  years,  these  two  zanies  have  delighted  listeners  with  Anything  Goes. 


THE  WNEW  airwaves  crackle  with  hilarity  as  Gene  Klavan  and  Dee  Finch  conduct 


KCIPE  for  merry  mayhem:  1  radio,  dial  set  at  1150 — 
Station  WNEW — tuned  in,  with  moderate  volume, 
Monday  through  Saturday  from  5:30  to  9  A.M. 
Stir  in  Gene  Klavan  and  Dee  Finch,  then  prepare  for 
a  round  of  music  and  chatter  spiced  with  some  of  the 
tangiest  and  most  explosive  wit  to  hit  any  airwaves. 
Aptly  called  Anything  Goes,  this  recipe-for-fun  show 
has  long  enjoyed  a  top  rating  in  the  New  York  area. 
Perhaps  the  greatest  reason  for  Klavan's  and  Finch's 
success — other  than  their  talents — can  be  found  in  their 
opposing  natures  and  backgrounds.  Easygoing  Dee  Finch 
has  always  approached  life  with  a  devil-may-care  atti- 
tude and,  since  boyhood  days,  has  known,  and  gotten, 
exactly  what  he  wanted.  By  the  time  he  was  ten,  Dee 
was  broadcasting  over  Station  WNBF  in  his  home  town, 
Binghamton,  New  York.  After  graduation  from  high 
school,  he  became  a  staff  member  at  WNBF  for  four 
years,  followed  by  one  year  at  WAGE  in  Syracuse.  Then, 
Dee  felt  he  was  ready  for  the  "big  time."  "Big-time 
deejays  and  New  York's  WNEW,"  he  says,  "meant  the 
same  to  me,  so  I  figured  I'd  get  my  first  refusal  at  the 
top."  True  to  the  Finch  luck,  he  was  hired — almost  on 
the  spot — as  a  staff  announcer  at  WNEW.  Four  years 
later.  Dee  was  summoned  into  the  Army.  Upon  his 
discharge,  he  returned  to  New  York,  wondering  if  he 
still  had  a  job  at  WNEW.  He  did  and,  just  a  few  months 


later,  when  Jack  Lescoulie  left  the  station.  Dee  took  his 
place,  co-starring  with  Gene  Raybum,  next  Gene  Klavan, 
.  .  .  Dee's  good  fortune  spills  over  into  his  personal  life: 
he  married  Bette,  whom  he  met  in  junior  high  school 
and  decided  then  she'd  be  his  wife,  and  has  the  family 
he  hoped  for — Greg,  SVa;  Virginia,  1 — and  a  comfortable 
home  on  Long  Island.  His  main  hobby  is  operating  his 
ham  radio  set.  His  one  big  indulgence,  he  says,  is  a 
31-foot  cabin  cruiser.  Bette  sums  up  Dee's  happy  state 
in  a  nutshell  by  saying,  "Dee  goes  to  work  like  a  lot  of 
people  go  to  golf."  One  of  the  nicest  things  about  Dee's 
good  fortune  is  that  he  has  never  taken  it  for  granted. 
On  the  other  side  of  the  mike  is  Gene  Klavan,  whose 
life  has  been  filled  with  the  unexpected,  and  who — even 
though  he's  "arrived" — can't  stop  worrying  if  he's  going 
to  stay  there.  Born  in  Baltimore,  Gene  decided  to  try 
law  as  a  career  and  was  studying  at  Johns  Hopkins 
when  the  Army  requested  his  services.  He  became  a 
radar  engineer  in  the  South  Pacific.  Once  out  of  the 
service.  Gene  took  a  fling  at  being  an  assistant  editor 
on  Coronet  Magazine,  then  resumed  his  law  studies  at 
the  University  of  Maryland.  Finally,  he  went  to  work 
at  Station  WCBM  in  Baltimore.  "The  reason  was  sim- 
ple," says  the  complicated  Klavan.  "I  had  to  make  a 
living  and  was  able  to  talk  someone  into  paying  me  for 
being  a  disc  jockey."    Next,  Gene  went  to  WITH,  then 


I 


'^'W^^'^WiT4 


Gene's    wife    Phyllis    ond    Dee's    wife    Bette    get    a 
day    off   as    the    two    fothers    become    baby-sitters. 


a  daily  circus  of  music,  chatter  and  comedy 


moved  to  Washington  and  WTOP — to  fill  the  vacancy 
made  by  one  Arthur  Godfrey — and  was  a  tremendous 
success  there.  Then,  one  day,  after  Gene  Rayburn  had 
left  WNEW  and  Dee  Finch  was  looking  for  a  partner, 
Gene  was  asked  to  audition.  After  that,  there  was  no 
doubt  in  anyone's  minds  that  Klavan  and  Finch  were 
"meant  for  each  other" — and  for  WNEW  listeners.  .  .  . 
At  home  in  a  Cape  Cod  cottage  on  Long  Island,  not  far 
from  the  Finch  residence,  Gene  and  his  wife  Phyllis — 
whom  he  met  while  they  both  were  students  at  Johns 
Hopkins — keep  busy  with  their  two  children,  Ross,  4, 
and  Andrew,  1.  An  amateur  shutterbug,  Gene  has  taken 
"thousands"  of  pictures  of  his  children.  When  asked  to 
describe  Gene  "at  home,"  Phyllis'  reply  is,  "It  depends 
on  what  minute  you're  talking  about."  One  minute  he's 
happy,  the  next  he's  worrying. 

While  Finch  tends  to  be  the  calmer,  "straight  man"  of 
the  two,  Klavan  sallies  forth  with  a  madcap  approach, 
using  the  dozens  of  dialects  or  "character  voices"  he  has 
mastered.  The  boys  are  backed  up  by  a  recorded  "gim- 
mick" file  of  750  different  sounds.  And,  believe  it  or  not, 
Anything  Goes  is  completely  unrehearsed. 

Close  friends  at  work  and  in  private  Ufe,  Gene  Klavan 
and  Dee  Finch  provide  happy  proof  that,  although  they 
may  be  opposites,  they  are  two  of  a  delightful  kind  when 
it  comes  to  pleasing  WNEW  listeners. 


Meal-time  problem:  How  to  keep  calm  while  feeding 
Andrew   and    Ross   Klavan,   Greg   and   Virginia   Finch. 


Shades  of  Davy  Crockett!  Ross  "covers"   Doddy  Gene 
while   Greg   has   a   grand   time   lassoing    Daddy    Dee. 


Who's  having   more  fun?   Finch   seems  to   be  holding 
his    own,    but    Klavan    tries    calling    up    for    reserves. 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM 


COAST  TO  COAST 


•  By  Jill  Warren 


He's  a  whirly  bird:  George  Gobel  takes  a  helicopter  ride 
while  in  Fort  Worth  to  entertain  the  Texas  Bankers  Assn. 


Imogene  Coca — with  Apri  the  poodle  and  Gainser  the 
cat — is    scheduled    to   guest   star   on    TV    next   season. 


Our  Miss  Brooks:  On  a  visit  to  New  York,  Eve  Arden  gives 
her  year-old  son  Douglas  his  first  lesson  in  "penmanship." 


SOME  interesting  fare  has  been  lined  up  by  NBC -TV 
for  their  "summer  specials" — or,  as  they're 
being  called,   "spectaculars  in  slipcovers."    On 
July  30,  "Svengali  and  the  Blonde"  will  be  presented  as 
an  hour  and  a  half  musical  adaptation  of  George 
de  Maurier's  classic,  Trilhy.   Carol  Channing  will  be 
Trilby,  Basil  Rathbone  will  be  her  Svengali,  and 
Russell  Arms,  from  Your  Hit  Parade,  will  play  the 
romance.     Ethel  Barrymore  will  narrate  the  show, 
which  will  originate  in  Hollywood,  with  Alan  Handley 
producing  and  directing.   For  August  27,  NBC-TV 
has  planned  another  super-duper,   "One  Touch  of 
Venus,"  which  will  co-star  Virginia  Mayo  and  Russell 
Nype,  with  George  Gaines.    More  details  on  this 
one  next  month. 

The  Lawrence  Welk  Show  is  a  brand-new  musical 
hour  program  seen  on  ABC-TV  Saturday  nights.    The 
show  originates  in  Hollywood,  where  Lawrence  Welk 
and  his  "Champagne  Music"  have  been  a  local 
television  click  for  some  time. 

CBS  Radio  has  signed  another  Godfrey — Katherine, 
by  name — sister  of  the  red-headed  rebel,  Arthur. 
She  has  just  started  her  own  radio  program,  called 
The  Kathy  Godfrey  Show,  heard  Sunday  afternoons  for 
twenty-five  minutes.    Kathy  serves  as  commentator, 
humorous  observer  and  interviewer,  and  hopes  to 
include  among  her  weekly  guests  important  figures  in 
the  world  of  entertainment,  as  well  as  people  who 
make  good  news.    Just  for  laughs  she  might  invite 
some  of  the  ex-Little   (Continued  on  page  22) 


66 


Pre  Waited  a  Long  Time  for  a  Woman  Like  You! 

-and  I  don't  care  if  you  belong  to  another  man!" 


I 


three 

OF  THESE  NEW  BEST-SELLERS 


BE       up  to 

M7.25  VALUE 

in  Pub.  Editions 


for  only 


when  you  join  f/ie  Dollar  Soofc  Club  and  agree  le 
(otie  as  few  as  6  se/eefions  ouf  of  fhe  24  to  be 
offered  within  a  year 


NOT  AS  A  STRANGER 
Morton  Thompson 

Nation's  long-run  hit ! 
Story  of  Lucas  Marsh, 
who  gave  everything  to 
become  a  doctor ;  Kris- 
tina,  the  girl  he  so 
strangely  married ;  and 
the  beautiful  woman 
who  shook  his  innermost 
soul !  700  exciting  pages. 
Pub.  ed.  $4.75 


LOVELY  Jane  Hoyt  had  come 
I  6000  miles  in  search  of  her 
missing  husband.  She  had  search- 
ed eveiywhere  — in  Hong  Kong's 
hotels,  bars,  waterfront  dives.  But 
each  lead  only  pointed  to  Hank 
Lee,  the  notorious  American  ad- 
f  venturer,  who  was  supposed  to 
'    know  everybody. 

So  she  had  gone  to  his  mansion 
in  the  hills,  and  he  had  agreed 
to  help  her.  Many  times  she  was 
to  return  there . . .  too  many  times! 
Why.'  Was  it  because  of  Hank's 
promise  to  find  her  husband,  or 
for  a  new  reason  —  a  reason  filled 
with  confusion  . . .  and  torment.' 

"I  love  you,  Jane,"  Hank  had 
whispered  as  his  strong  arms 
held  her,  "aad  though  I'll  get 
your  husband  back— you'll  have 
to  choose  between  him  and  me!" 

Soldier  of  Fortune  is  the  dar- 
ing new  smash-hit  romance  by 
the  author  of  The  High  and  the 
hiighty.  It  costs  $3.50  in  the  pub- 
lisher's edition,  but  you  may 
choose  it  in  this  amazing  3-books- 
for-$l  offer  to  new  members! 


OUTLINE   OF  HISTORY-H.  G.  Wells 

New  enlarged  2-volume  edition, 
1,312  pages.  The  whole  dramatic 
story  of  mankind  from  the  earliest 
times  to  our  own  years.  200  illus- 
trations. One  of  the  most  acclaimed 
works  of  the  century.  Originally 
published  in  one  volume  at  $5.00 

This  2-voliime  set  counts 

as  one  book 


LOVE  IS  ETERNAL 
Irving  Stone 

No.  1  hit  for  many 
months  I  The  love  story 
of  Mary  Todd,  daughter 
of  society,  who  mar- 
ried the  one  man  con- 
sidered most  unsuitable 
for  her — Abe  Lincoln  I 
448   pages.    Pub.    $}.95 


THORNOIKE-BARNHART 
DICTIONARY 

1955  edition!  80,000 
entries,  700  pictures, 
10,000  explanatory 
phrases,  5,000  synonyms 
and  antonyms,  hundreds 
of  notes  on  correct  us- 
age, word  origins,  etc. 
896   pages.    Pub.   S2.95 


GONE    WITH    THE    WIND 
Margaret  Mitchell 

Greatest  best-seller  of 
the  century  in  a  new 
edition.  The  love  story 
of  Scarlett  O'Hara  and 
Rhett  Butler  against  a 
spectacular  historical 
background.  Pub.  $2.95 

HAMMOND-DOUBLEDAY 
WORLD  ATLAS 

9%"  by  121/4"  volume. 
Covers  U.  S.,  Canada, 
all  foreign  countries. 
90  maps,  }2  full-page, 
full-color!  154  photos 
plus  94  pages  of  faas 
on  the  world's  peoples. 
Book  club  ed.  $3.50 


BENTON'S  ROW 
Frank  Yerby 

From  the  day  outlaw 
Tom  Benton  meets 
honey-blond  Sarah 
Tyler  in  the  doorway 
or  a  lonely  cabin,  this 
roaring  new  tale  of 
love  and  violence  in 
the  Louisiana  bayous 
sweeps  along  in  top 
Yerby  style!  Pub. 
edition  $3.50 


AROUND  THE  WORLD 
IN  1,000  PICTURES 

Visit  strange  ports  and 
enchanting  cities,  Rome, 
Paris,  Bali,  Hong  Kong, 
and  many  more !  See  all 
the  wonders  of  83  fabu- 
lous lands  in  1,000  pho- 
tos with  exciting  text. 
Pub.   orig.  ed.  $7.50 


AN  OPPORTUNITY  YOU  MUSTN'T  MISS!  | 

'—"■^'^'•■^         -,,..■,•_        gu   ^j  special   Club   prices  which   save 

you  up  to  75%!  But  you  take  only  the 
books  you  want  —  and  you  do  not  have 
to  take  one  every  month.  You  may  take 
as  few  as  six  selections  a  year! 


CHOOSE  any  3  books  on  this  page  for 
only  SI  when  you  join  the  Dollar 
Book  Club.  This  big  introductory  offer 
is  made  to  demonstrate  the  wonderful 
values  you  enjoy  as  a  member. 

Save  up  to  75%  on  New  Books 

(compared  wiffi  prices  of  pub.  editions) 
Imagine  — the  same  new^  books  costing 
up  to  S3.95  in  publishers'  editions  come 
to  Club  members  for  only  SI  each!  The 
biggest  hits  by  top  authors  like  Frank 
Yerby,  Daphne  du  Maurier,  Thomas  B. 
Costain,  A.  J.  Cronin  and  many  others, 
have  come  to  members  at  this  low  $1 
price.  Occasionally,  extra-value  selec- 
tions at  $1.49  are  offered.  All  are  new, 
full-size,  hard-bound  books. 

In  addition,  the  Club  frequently  of- 
fers other  very  desirable  books  . . .  use- 
ful homemaker  volumes. .  .beautiful  de- 
luxe books,  books  of  cultural  value  .  .  . 


Mail  Coupon— Send  No  Money 

Receive  any  3  books  you  choose  from 
this  page  for  only  $1,  plus  a  small  ship- 
ping charge.  Two  books  are  your  gift 
for  joining,  and  one  is  your  first  selec- 
tion. Thereafter,  you  will  receive  regu- 
larly the  Club's  Bulletin,  which  de- 
scribes the  forthcoming  selections  and 
other  book  bargains  for  members  only. 
If  not  delighted  with  your  introduc- 
tory Three-Book  bargain  package  —  re- 
turn all  books  and  membership  will  be 
cancelled.  Mail  coupon  now.  Doubleday 
Dollar  Book  Club,  Garden  City,  N.  Y. 


MAIL  THIS  COUPON 

Doubleday  Dollar  Book  Club,  Dept.  18TSG,  Garden  City,  New  York 
Please  enroll  me  as  a  Dollar  Book  Club  member.  Send  me  at 
once  as  my  gift  books  and  first  selection  the  3  books  checked 
below— and  bill  me  ONLY  $1  FOR  ALL  3,  plus  a  small  ship- 
ping charge. 
O  Around  the  World      D  Hammond-DoubledayD  Outline  of  History  (set) 

in  1,000  Pictures  World  Atlas  Q  Soldier  of  Fortune 

D  Benton's  Row  D  Love  Is  Eternal  □  Thorndike-Barnhart 

D  Gone  Witti  the  WindQ  Not  As  A  Stranger  Dictionary 

Also  send  my  first  issue  of  The  Bulletin,  telling  me  about  the 
new  forthcoming  one-dollar  book  selections  and  other  bargains 
for  members.  I  may  notify  you  in  advance  if  I  do  not  wish  the 
following  month's  selections.  I  do  not  have  to  accept  a  book 
every  month — only  six  a  year.  I  pay  nothing  except  $1  for  each 
selection  I  accept,  plus  a  small  shipping  charge  (unless  I  choose 
an  extra-value  selection). 

NO-RISK  GUARANTEE:  If  not  delighted  return  all 
books  in  7  days  and  membership  will  be  cancelled. 

Mr. 

Mrc  Please 

m[S •■""» 

Address 

City 

&  Zone State 

In  Canada,  selection  price  $1.10  plus  shipping;  address  Doubleday 
Book  Club,  105  Bond  St.,  Toronto  2.  Offer  good  in  U.  S.  &  Canada  only. 


information  booth 


Crew-Cut  Comedy 

Would  you  give  me  some  information  on 
Gene  Rayburn,  the  announcer  on  NBC- 
TV's  Tonight? 

B.L.S.,  North  Truro,  Mass. 

Gene  Rayburn,  Tonight's  six-foot-one 
announcer  and  buffoon,  was  bitten  by  the 
theatrical  bug  while  still  in  grammar 
school  in  Chicago.  As  he  recalls,  "I  was 
bitten  so  hard  that  when  I  first  went  on 
stage  I  couldn't  say  my  lines."  When  Gene 
got  his  voice  back,  he  was  cast  as  George 
Washington,  but  in  place  of  the  scheduled 
stirring  speech,  he  began  "Lizzie  Borden 
took  an  ax,  gave  her  mother  forty  whacks." 
.  .  .  After  graduation  from  Knox  College, 
in  Galesburg,  Illinois,  Gene  pounded  the 
New  York  pavements,  finally  landed  a  job 
as  a  page  boy  and  enrolled  in  announcers' 
school.  He  worked  for  Station  WGNY  in 
the  Hudson  Valley,  then  for  stations  in 
Baltimore  and  Philadelphia.  In  1942,  he 
joined  Station  WNEW  in  New  York,  then 
left  for  three  years  in  the  Air  Force  where 
he  claims  he  made  the  world's  distance 
record  for  holding  the  rank  of  second  lieu- 
tenant. Back  at  WNEW,  after  the  war,  he 
did  a  morning  radio  show  with  Jack  Les- 
coulie,  then  formed  the  hilarious  team  of 
Rayburn  and  Finch,  which  entertained 
New  Yorkers  for  six  years  and,  for  a  short 
while,  had  the  whole  country  laughing  with 
their  night-time  network  show.  When  the 
team  disbanded  in  1952,  Gene  went  on  to 
star  on  several  of  his  own  shows  and  to 
appear  also  on  The  Name's  The  Same,  be- 
fore taking  his  stand  on  Tonight.  .  .  .  Gene 
is  married  to  Helen  Tichnor,  a  model  who 
has  been  a  personality  in  her  own  right  on 
a  number  of  Gene's  shows.  They  live  in  a 
Dutch  colonial  home  in  suburban  Mamar- 
oneck,  New  York,  and  have  a  twelve-year- 


Bea  Benaderet 


old  daughter,  Lynn.  Gene  still  likes  to  fly, 
spends  his  vacations  on  Nantucket.  Re- 
membering his  own  early  hard-times,  he 
has  established  a  scholarship  at  Columbia 
University   for   career-minded   page    boys. 

Mystery  Lady 

With  the  closing  of  Jimmy  Durante' s  TV 
program,  he  always  says,  "Good  night, 
Mrs.  Calabash,  wherever  you  are!"  Can 
you  tell  me  who  she  is? 

A.B.,  Coopers  Mills,  Me. 

Sorry,  but  Jimmy  isn't  telling  about  who 
Mrs.  Calabash  is.  His  answer  to  all  ques- 
tions about  her  is  to  grin  and  say :  "Every- 
body  is    entitled    to   his    secrets.    This   is 


maid  of  all  work,"  she  recalls.  She  tried 
Hollywood  and  network  radio  in  1936,  got 
her  first  big  breaks  with  Orson  Welles  and 
Jack  Benny. 

A  Good  Start 

Would  you  tell  us  a  little  about  Kort 
Falkenberg,  who  plays  Ma  Perkins'  son 
Joe  in  the  CBS  Radio  serial? 

H.B.,  Niagara  Falls,  N.  Y. 

Now  that  he's  established  as  Joe  Perk- 
ins, Kort  Falkenberg  claims  that  his  act- 
ing career  was  launched  during  his  first 
year  of  school,  when  his  classmates  ap- 
plauded his  debut  as  a  song-and-dance 
man.  But  he  was  a  senior  in  high  school 
before  he  decided  to  capitalize  on  his  dra- 
matic talent.  Meanwhile,  he  had  learned 
photography  at  his  father's  studio,  won 
awards  for  his  work  in  fabric  design  and 
been  active  in  a  local  church  drama  club. 
A  few  years  were  filled  with  summer  stock, 
and  off-Broadway  experimental  produc- 
tions. To  add  to  his  meager  stage  earnings, 
Kort  worked  as  a  stock-exchange  clerk,  an 
usher,  a  mailman  and  a  museum  lecturer, 
and  continued  to  study  on  a  scholarship  at 
the  New  School  of  Social  Research.  Then 
Uncle  Sam  made  him  an  Entertainment 
Specialist,  giving  him  a  chance  to  do  a 
national  radio  show  every  week  before 
shipping  him  to  the  Pacific  to  organize, 
direct  and  perform  in  GI  productions. 
When  he  was  discharged,  Kort  enrolled  in 
the  American  Theater  Wing  Professional 
Training  Program.  Soon  his  age  and 
dialect  characterizations  began  to  be  heard 
on  such  shows  as  Gangbusters,  Crime 
Photographer  and  City  Hospital.  Kort 
is  married  to  Gerry  Lock,  an  actress.  They 
have  a  two-and-a-half-year-old  son  and 
live  in  Manhattan.  {Continued  on  page  10) 


Gene  Rayburn 


Next-Door  Neighbor 

Would  you  tell  me  something  about  the 
woman  who  plays  Blanche  Morton, 
Grade's  neighbor  on  CBS-TV's  Burns  And 
Allen  Show?  D.F.,  Birmingham,  Ala. 

Grade's  feminine  foil  is  played  by  Bea 
Benaderet,  who  had  her  first  fling  at  tele- 
vision on  the  Burns  And  Allen  Show.  But 
her  long-time  radio  career  on  such  shows 
as  My  Friend  Irma,  Adventures  Of  Ozzie 
And  Harriet,  The  Great  Gildersleeve  and 
Fibber  McGee  And  Molly  has  made  her 
voice  familiar  to  most  Americans.  .  .  .  Born 
in  New  York  of  Spanish-Irish  ancestry, 
Bea  studied  voice  and  piano  from  the  time 
she  was  knee-high  to  a  piano  bench.  She 
participated  in  school  dramatics,  then 
studied  at  the  Reginald  Travis  School  of 
Acting.  Next  came  stock  companies,  little- 
theater  work  and  her  first  radio  job  at  San 
Francisco's  KFRC  as  actress,  singer, 
writer,     producer,     announcer — "really    a 


Kort  Falkenberg 


cyip^" 


W  0^  V^^-^  ^^  u3ctL-f/ie/^ 


WONDERFUL  NEW  EASIT-TO-DO  PIN-CURL  PERMANENT 


NEW !  rc>^ toclcujfe  /o^-tM.  VodK  itlfte-. . . 

NEW !  jJo-  oM-iMmA.  octiyt! 

NEW !  Ej^c^u>^  l^iu^  >4tL(k  u^  ei^ 


^ 


In  hairdos,  today's  look  is  the  soft  look,  and  Procter  &  Gamble's 
wonderful  new  pin-curl  home  permanent  is  especially  designed  to 
give  it  to  you.  A  PIN-IT  wave  is  soft  and  lovely  as  a  pin-curl  set, 
never  tight  and  kinky.  PIN-IT  is  so  wonderfully  different.  You  can 
tell  the  minute  you  open  the  bottle.  It  contains  absolutely  no 
ammonia.  It's  easy  on  your  hair,  too,  so  you  can  use  it  more  often. 
And  PIN-IT  is  far  easier  to  use.  Just  put  your  hair  up  in  pin  curls 
and  apply  PIN-IT'S  Waving  Lotion.  Later,  rinse  and  let  dry.  With 
self-neutralizing  PIN-IT,  no  resetting  is  needed.  You  get  a  perma- 
nent and  a  set  in  one  step.  For  a  wave  that  looks  soft  and  lovely 
from  the  very  first  day  and  lasts  weeks  and  weeks— try  PIN-IT! 


BY  PROCTER  fr  GAMBLE  -(cVL~tkt.  CuaJL  Of  LjOWU  dAeJXWJ^ 


MiMiMMuyfHIIIMiMaMaMHI 


nuny 


Ji955  f  »  e 


Md  -fiVL  iir  IM-  -tke  cjm.OJ^  OfM:r^^O^  ]p(xxkjxq^ 


""""^^■^^■n 


When  invited  to  a  formal  tea,  should  you  — 

n  Be  punctual  Q  Go  formal  Q  Talk  about  people 


Sooner  or  later  comes  the  bid  to  your  first 
formal  tea.  Must  you  dress  formally  ?  Stay 
the  full  two  hours?  What  should  you  say  to 
the  V.I.P.s  you  meet?  Answers:  Wear  your 
best  daytime  outfit.  Arrive  and  leave  when 
you  like.  As  for  the  Very  Important  People: 


a  word  from  you  about  their  interests  and 
your  what-to-say  worries  are  phf-f-ft!  No 
problems  !  That  goes  for  calendar  worries,  as 
well  — with  Kotex*  to  keep  you  comfortable. 
For  Kotex  gives  softness  that  holds  its  shape. 
Doesn't  chafe  !  Made  to  stay  soft! 


Do  you  think  the  lady  in  the 
limelight  is  — 

I    I  Devastating  Q  Obnoxious  Q  Dramatics  coach 

Her  captive  audience  — they'' ve  had  it!  But 
Cora  the  Cube  "must"  act  out  the  merest 
trivia  she  tells.  Overworked  gestures  mar 
your  word  power,  your  poise.  Practice  de- 
scribing a  spiral,  a  dance  step,  a  circle  with- 
out demonstration.  Poise  on  "those"  days, 
too,  is  a  matter  of  being  self-confident.  So, 
you  choose  Kotex  — assured  no  revealing 
outlines  show,  thanks  to  flat  pressed  ends. 


Which  gives  your  sports  outfit  a  new 
"ladylike"  look? 

I    I  Bermuda  shorts    Q  Bermuda  skirt    Q  Ruffles 

If  you  like  shorts,  but  find  they  </e-flatter 
your  figure  — the  Bermuda  walking  skirt  is 
for  you.  It's  the  feminine,  flattering  version 
of  Bermuda  shorts:  but  newer,  smarter  ! 
On  certain  days,  why  not  be  smart  about  get- 
ting the  right-for-you  size  of  Kotex?  Try 
all  3:  Regular,  Junior,  Super;  each  gives  the 
complete  absorbency  you  need.  See  wliich 
suits  you  exactly. 


More  women  choose  KOTEX  than  all  other  sanitary  napkins 


Have  yoo  tried  new  Delsey  ?  It's  the  2 -ply  toilet 
tissue  with  Kleenex*  softness.  Only  Delsey  is  clean-cut 
to  tear  evenly.  It  ends  waste  —  saves  money  —  because 
it  can't  shred  like  ordinary  toilet  tissues.  And  Delsey* 
com<!s  in  your  favorite  towel  colors:  pink,  yellow,  blue 
and  fircen,  as  well  as  white.  Be  thrifty  — buy  quality  — 
buy  Delsey. 


information   booth 

{Continued  from  page   8) 


Steve  Gethers 


'T.  M.  RES.    U.  S.   PAT,  OFF. 


10 


Actor-Author 


/  would  like  to  know  something  about 
Steve  Gethers,  who  is  Hal  Craig  in  Love 
Of  Life  on  CBS-TV.  E.P.,  Monessen,  Pa. 

Handsome  Steve  Gethers  can  work  both 
sides  of  a  script.  As  a  player,  he's  night- 
club operator  Hal  Craig  in  Love  Of  Life. 
As  a  playwright,  he's  been  represented  on 
TV  with  "Baseball  Blues"  on  U.  S.  Steel 
Hour  and  "Departure"  on  Kraft.  .  .  .  The 
versatile  Mr.  Gethers  was  born  June  8, 
1922,  studied  at  the  University  of  Iowa 
and  the  American  Academy  of  Dramatic 
Arts.  He  toured  the  country  in  "Joan  of 
Lorraine,"  with  Sylvia  Sydney,  and  in 
"Open  House."  During  the  war,  he  served 
with  the  field  artillery  in  the  Pacific.  Steve 
has  eight  years  of  radio  work  behind  him 
and  has  been  seen  on  such  dramatic  TV 
programs  as  Lux  TV  Theater,  Robert 
Montgomery  Presents  and  Suspense.  He 
lives  in  Manhattan  with  his  wife  Julia  and 
sons  Eric,  8,  and  Peter,  2. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  members. 
If  you  are  interested  in  joining,  write  to 
the  address  given — not  TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Peggy  King  Fan  Club,  c/o  Pat  Brust, 
319  Good  St.,  Jeannette,  Pa. 

John  Cameron  Swayze  Fan  Club,  c/o 
Pearl  Weber,  P.  0.  Box  85.  Hurley,  N.Y. 

]oan  Alexander  Fan  Club,  c/o  Hal  How- 
ard, 5303  Wriley  Rd.,  Westhaven,  Md. 

Marion  Marlowe  Fan  Club,  c/o  Helen 
D'Avolio,  P.  0.  Box  107,  East  Boston,  Mass. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 

something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


H 


I  ERE  I  am  in  Hollywood,  the  land  of 
sunshine  and  movie  stars,  and  I  must  say 
it's  fun  to  be  "home"  again,  back  where 
I  started.  We're  just  beginning  production 
on  "The  Benny  Goodman  Story,"  but  I 
brought  my  trusty  turntable  along.  We've 
got  everything  from  bounce  to  ballad  this 
month,  so  let's  lend  an  ear. 

Gary  Crosby's  baritone  seems  to  get  bet- 
ter with  each  new  record  he  makes.  He 
sings  right  out  on  his  latest,  "Ayuh,  Ayuh," 
a  jump  novelty  which  he  introduced  on 
Ed  Sullivan's  Toast  Of  The  Town  TV 
show.  Gary  backs  it  up  with  the  swingy 
"Mississippi  Pecan  Pie."  Buddy  Bregman's 
orchestra  and  The  Cheer  Leaders  vocal 
group  supply  the  backgrounds.  (Decca) 

Leave  it  to  Jackie  Gleason  to  do  the  un- 
usual, espyeciaUy  with  his  recordings.  Now 
he  has  come  up  with  an  album  called 
"Lonesome  Echo,"  an  instrumental  set  of 
sixteen  great  old  tunes,  such  things  as 
"There  Must  Be  a  Way,"  "Deep  Purple," 
"Come  Rain  or  Come  Shine,"  "Speak 
Low,"  and  "Dancing  on  the  Ceiling."  The 
orchestrations  are  the  most  unusual,  and 
feature  cellos,  guitars,  marimbas,  and 
twenty — count  'em — twenty  mandolins!  It 
all  adds  up  to  a  terrific  sound  and  a  ter- 
rific album.  Salvador  Dali,  the  famous  sur- 
realist artist,  did  the  colorful  cover,  and 
you'll  have  to  admit  that  Dali  and  Glea- 
son are  some  combination!   (Capitol) 

Decca  has  waxed  the  whole  score  of  the 
new  Broadway  musical,  "Seventh  Heaven," 
with  the  original  cast,  which  co-stars 
Gloria  DeHaven  and  Ricardo  Montal- 
ban,  and  they've  also  etched  several  single 
records  of  the  top  tunes  from  the  show. 
Gloria  has  a  platter  of  "If  It's  a  Dream," 
and  "Where  Is  That  Someone  for  Me?," 
both  pretty  ballads.  Kitty  Kallen  has  also 
done  "If  It's  a  Dream,"  coupled  with  an- 
other ballad,  not  from  the  show,  "Forgive 
Me."  "Blessings"  is  done  by  Marian  Ca- 
ruso, Decca's  young  Philadelphia  discov- 
ery, and  Sanrniy  Davis,  Jr.  croons  "  A  Man 
with  a  Dream." 

Eydie  Gorme  and  Steve  Lawrence,  the 
vocal  kids  on  my  Tonight  TV  show,  have 
done  up  a  cute  duet  called  "Knickerbocker 
Mambo,"  inspired  by  our  lager  sponsor, 
"Old  Father  Knickerbocker."  It's  a  cute 
time,  with  kind  of  a  crazy,  mixed -up  lyric. 
On  the  backing,  Eydie  solos  on  a  lovely 
ballad,  "Give  a  Fool  a  Chance."  Dick 
Jacobs'  orchestra  on  both.  (Coral) 

Davy  Crockett  is  still  with  us,  and  a  fine 
lad  he  is.  "Be  Sure  You're  Right"  (Davy's 
motto)  has  been  recorded  by  Burl  Ives, 
and  the  song  lends  itself  well  to  Burl's  fa- 
miliar folk  style.  On  the  reverse  Burl  sings 
all  about  "Old  Betsy"  (Davy  Crockett's 
gun).  The  Ray  Charles  male  chorus  helps 
out  with  the  lyrics.  (Decca) 

"Old  Betsy"  gets  the  Steve  Allen  treat- 
ment, too.  But  we  lost  our  mind  on  the 
other  side  with  something  called  "The  Goo 


Goo  Song,"  and  the  idea  for  this  one  came 
from  those  little  Goo  Goo  dolls  you  may 
have  seen  on  my  TV  show.  We  had  a  lot 
of  fun  recording  the  thing,  especially  with 
the  sound  effects  of  the  Goo  Goo  squeak, 
etc.  Dick  Jacobs  conducted  the  orchestra 
and  chorus.  (Coral) 

Billy  Eckstine  comes  forward  with  two 
new  ballads,  and  does  a  terrific  job  on 
both.  On  the  first,  "Careless  Lips,"  he  gives 
out  with  the  sultry  treatment  in  tango 
tempo,  with  vocal  assistance  by  The  Pied 
Pipers.  The  second  is  "A  Man  Doesn't 
Know,"  one  of  the  loveliest  songs  from  the 
Broadway  musical,  "Damn  Yankees."  Lou 
Bring's  orchestra.    (M-G-M) 

"The  Best  of  Fred  Astaire"  is  the  title 
of  a  new  album  by  the  famous  song-and- 
dance  man.  The  album  has  twelve  sides,  all 
re-issues  of  the  tunes  and  numbers  asso- 
ciated with  Astaire  during  his  long  movie 
career.  Included  are  such  remembered 
songs  as  "Cheek  to  Cheek,"  "A  Fine  Ro- 
mance," and  "Dig  It,"  and  Fred  tap-dances 
on  some  of  the  sides.  This  album  will  be  a 
must  for  Astaire  fans.  (Epic) 

Movie  star  Jeff  Chandler  made  his  debut 
on  records  a  few  months  ago,  and  now  he 
has  added  songwriting  to  his  accomplish- 
ments. Jeff  wrote  a  ballad,  "Fox  Fire"— 
which,  incidentally,  is  the  title  of  his  new 
Universal- International  picture — and  he 
has  chosen  the  tune,  natch,  for  his  latest 
release.  "Shanermaidel" — which  means 
"beautiful  girl"  in  Yiddish — also  receives 
the  Chandler  ballad  delivery,  with  the  help 
of  The  Rhythmaires  vocal  group.  Sonny 
Burke  conducts  both  sides.  Nice  goin',  Jeff. 
(Coral) 

Ray  Anthony  has  a  fine  new  instru- 
mental record,  "Mmmm  Mamie"  and 
"Learnin'  the  Blues."  "Mamie"  is  an  An- 
thony composition,  in  honor  of  Ray's 
movie  starlet  pal,  Mamie  Van  Doren.  There 
are  tip-top  Anthony  trumpet  solos  on  both, 
especially  on  the  "Blues"  side.  This  record 
is  good  for  dancing — or  just  plain  listening, 
as  you  wish.  (Capitol) 

"Pete  Kelly's  Blues" — with  a  narrative 
by  Jack  Webb — is  the  name  of  a  new  al- 
bum put  together  by  the  Dragnet  boy.  It's  a 
collection  of  standards  played  by  a  small 
jazz  band,  done  up  in  the  style  of  the 
Roaring  Twenties.  You'll  hear  such  oldies 
as  "Breezing  Along  with  the  Breeze," 
"Somebody  Loves  Me,"  "Bye,  Bye  Black- 
bird," "Sugar,"  and  "What  Can  I  say.  Dear, 
After  I  Say  I'm  Sorry?"  and  others.  Webb 
introduces  the  tunes,  with  some  short  pat- 
ter about  each.  "Pete  Kelly's  Blues,"  in- 
cidentally, is  also  the  title  of  Jack's  forth- 
coming movie  for  Warner  Brothers,  and 
many  of  the  album  tunes  are  also  in  the 
picture.  (Victor) 

Julius  La  Rosa  has  recorded  a  new  Ital- 
ian rhythm  novelty,  "Mama  Rosa,"  which 
could  ring  the  bell  for  him  the  way  "Eh 
Cimipari"  did.  Julie  sings  part  of  the  side 


in  Italian,  and  there's  also  a  friscalettu  solo 
for  good  measure.  That's  Italian  for  piccolo, 
they  tell  me.  On  the  backing  the  La  Rosa 
baritone  is  heard  on  a  pretty  ballad, 
"Domani" — which  means  tomorrow — and 
it's  all  in  English.  Accompaniment  is  by 
Archie  Bleyer's  orchestra.     (Cadence) 

Sister  teams  have  really  come  into  their 
own  this  past  year,  and  now  look — my  wife 
and  my  sister-in-law  have  joined  the  pa- 
rade. Jayne  and  Audrey  Meadows  have 
cut  their  first  record  together,  hooray, 
hooray.  The  gals  sing  out  in  gay  style  on 
a  couple  of  new  novelties,  "Hot  Potato 
Mambo"  and  "Japanese  Rhumba,"  with 
Hugo  Winterhalter's  orchestra  on  the  Vic- 
tor label.  Now  I  won't  be  in  trouble  with 
the  family  for  not  mentioning  their  wax 
debut!  (All  kidding  aside,  it's  a  cute  rec- 
ord.) 

The  Cowboy  Church  Sunday  School 
has  recorded  two  semi- religious  songs, 
"Go  On  By"  and  "The  Little  Black  Sheep," 
both  written  by  Stuart  Hamblen.  The  chil- 
dren's chorus,  well-known  in  California, 
uses  only  an  organ  accompaniment.  Their 
first  record  of  "Open  up  Your  Heart"  sold 
almost  a  million  copies,  and  this,  their  sec- 
ond release,  may  do  just  as  well.  (Coral) 

The  "X"  Label  has  signed  a  new  instru- 
mental group.  The  Back  Bay  Boys,  and  an 
amusing  group  they  are.  For  their  first 
two  sides  the  lads  play — and  look  out  for 
these  titles — "Rondo  Chi  Wutsi"  and  "Yogi 
Amo."  The  end  result  is  sort  of  a  cross 
between  barrelhouse  and   razz-a-ma-tazz. 

Well,  that  about  wraps  it  up  for  now,  but 
I'll  be  coming  at  you  from  Hollywood 
again  next  month.  See  you  then. 


The  Benny  Goodman  Story:  The  master 
and  myself  "on  a  toot"  for  my  film  role. 


11 


Dynamic  Jim  DeLine  daily  leads  his  "Gang" 
through  three  merry  shows  which  keep  WSYR 
listeners  and  viewers  asking  for  "More!'* 


Master 
Cut-up 


Comedian  Nancy  Walker,  guest  "fiddler,"  amuses  some  of  the  DeLine 
Sang:  Ken  Drumm,  Norman  Coleman,  Carl  Mono,  Jim  and  Myron  Levee. 


WITH  a  twinkle  in  his  eye  and  an  ear-to-ear  grin, 
Jim  DeLine  provides  Syracuse's  Station  WSYR 
audiences  with  some  of  the  best  fun  and  music  to  be 
found  anywhere  in  the  Lake  Ontario  region.  Starting 
at  9: 15  A.M.  daily,  the  Jim  DeLine  Gang  breezes 
through  a  fun-filled  hour  on  WSYR  Radio.  Next,  the 
Gang  hops  over  to  WSYR-TV  studios  to  present  their 
noontime  show.  At  12:45,  they  all  race  back  to  the 
radio  studio  for  their  third  merry  show  of  the  day  at 
1  P.M.  .  .  A  typical  DeLine  show — if  any  can  be  called 
typical — finds  Jim  kidding  with  members  of  the  band 


12 


The  DeLine  family  (minus  Jim,  Jr.  and  Linda):  Jim  and 
Geri  with  Dickie  and  Charles,  who  is  called  "Chipper." 


or  with  vocalists  Patti  Hammond,  Dick  Workman  and 
Fran  Walsh.  Interspersed  with  the  songs  and  witty 
bantering,  are  interviews  with  guest  stars.  Jim's  favor- 
ite guest  is  Pat  O'Brien,  "the  only  man  the  Gang  hasn't 
been  able  to  talk  down!"  Himself  a  master  ad-libber, 
Jim  has  coached  the  other  show  members  in  delivering 
fast  comebacks.  The  results  have  always  met  with 
unanimous  audience  approval.  .  .  .  No  "Jimmy-come- 
lately"  to  the  entertainment  field,  the  dynamic  DeLine 
gained  his  initial  radio  experience  as  a  student  at  Syra- 
cuse University.  After  graduation,  Jim  says  his  first 
attempts  to  break  into  radio  were  "completely  unsuc- 
cessful. I  made  many  auditions — but  never  made  the 
grade."  Finally,  however,  he  did  get  a  job  at  WMBO  in 
Auburn.  Four  months  later,  he  had  moved  to  WFBL 
in  Syracuse,  where  the  original  DeLine  Gang  was  born. 
Then,  in  1951,  the  whole  Gang  moved  to  WSYR  where 
they  have  been  making  merry  ever  since.  ...  "I  love 
the  show  and  my  work,"  says  Jim,  recalling  that, 
through  his  work,  he  met  his  wife  Geri.  This  occurred 
when  Jim  was  conducting  an  interview  show  at  a 
Syracuse  restaurant  where  Geri  was  a  hostess.  A  very 
successful  marriage  resulted,  and  today  the  DeLines' 
new  split-level  home  in  Bellewood  houses  four  vigor- 
ous offspring:  Jim,  Jr.,  13;  Linda,  8;  Charles,  5;  and 
Dickie,  1.  An  avid,  in-the-90's  golfer,  Jim  also  likes 
to  fish,  but  never  does  too  well.  His  children,  Jim  says, 
"have  mixed  emotions  about  my  work.  However,  I 
have  overheard  them  brag  that  their  dad  has  the  best 
show  on  the  air.  I  try  never  to  correct  them  on  this 
point!"  .  .  .  Jim  receives  much  mail  from  his  audience — 
which  extends  into  Canada — praising  him  for  his  "clean, 
wholesome  program,  ideal  for  children  and  adults." 
And  they  all  agree  that  the  humor  and  good  fellow- 
ship which  typifies  the  Jim  DeLine  Gang  is  the  per- 
fect daily  dose  to  happily  "cur©  whatever  ails  you." 


-I 


NOW!  SOFT, GLOWING 
HAIR  IN  20  SECONDS! 


''Liven-up"  your  hair  with  this 
Amazing  Non-oily  Hairdressing! 

Now  it's  so  easy  to  have  soft,  perfectly -groomed,  glow- 
ing hair  .  .  .  instantly  .  .  .  always!  Just  a  few  drops  of 
miraculous  new  suave  daily  makes  hair  obey,  tames 
wispy  ends,  stubborn  strands.  Yet  leaves  it  soft,  natural 
looking  .  .  .  adds  satiny  glow,  not  oily  shine  .  .  .  reheves 
and  prevents  dryness  and  brittleness.  Get  New  Improved 
SUAVE,  with  Helena  Curtis'  amazing  new  "beauty  find" 
—greaseless  lanolin ! 


GIVES  HAIR 

HEALTHY-LOOKING 

GLOW-NOT  OILY  SHINE! 

SUAVE  makes  hair  sparkly  as 
it  should  be— twinkling  with 
new  highhghts!  No  oily  look  — 
ever!  And  never  any  oily  feel. 


HAIR  DRY,  BRITTLE, 

ABUSED?  NOTHING 

WORKS  LIKE  SUAVE! 

SUAVE  solves  hair  woes  — 
brings  back  softness,  luster 
to  dry,  parched,  frizzy  hair 
instantly.  Protects  your  hair! 


MAKES  ANY  HAIR  STYLE  EASY  TO  ARRANGE! 
PROTECTS  ITS  CHARM! 

No  matter  which  of  the  new  summer  hair  styles  you  choose 
—  artfully  casual  yet  neat  .  .  .  formal  "sculptured"  hairdo 
...  or  the  new  "loose  classic"  styles— suave  makes  your 
hair  eager  to  form  into  the  hairdo  you  want  .  :  .  happy  to 
shape  into  deep  rippling  waves. 


EVEN  AFTER  HOURS  IN  THE  SUN- 
KEEP  YOUR  HAIR  SILKEN,  SUN-SAFE! 

You  don't  have  to  let  the  sun  dry  or  parch  the 
natural  beauty  of  your  hair.  Just  a  few  magic 
drops  of  suave  daily  not  only  protects  your  hair 
—  it  actually  recaptures  lost  sun-damaged  beauty! 
Relieves  frizz  and  dryness.  Keeps  hair  soft,  silken 
—radiant  as  the  sun  itself!  Get  suave  today! 


HELENE  CURTIS 

uave 


HAIRDRESSING 


&  CONDITIONER 


59<?  <=-^l 


(plus  taxi 


*trodemark 


NEW!  With  amazing  greaseless  lanolin 


T 
V 
R 

13 


m^S"^^^^ 


Only  Mavis  keeps 
you  flower-fragrant, 
flower-fresh,  alluringly 
feminine  oil  over.  This 
velvety  imported  talc, 
exquisitely  perfumed, 
insures  your  daintiness 
. . ,  absorbs  moisture, 
helps  prevent  chafing. 
With  Mavis  you  ore 
always  your  loveliest 
self  ...  In  29i-4M 
and  59*  sizes  at  all 
toiletry  counters. 


mm 


TALCUM 


14 


PERFUME  •  LIPSTICK        at  all  10^2  stores 


Neiv  Patterns 
for  You 


9249  SIZES  ^AV2-2AV2 


9238 — Easy    to    sew — jiffy    to    iron. 
This  is  the  dress  you'll  reach  for  most 
often.    Misses'  Sizes  12-20;   30-42.    Size  16 
takes  4   yards   35-inch   fabric.   SS^- 

9066 — Half-sizers:    Three    ways    you    can 
wear   this   style — as   apron,   sport 
jerkin,  or   terrycloth  beachcoat.    Cut  to 
fit   the   shorter,   fuller   figure.   Half   Sizes 
141/2-241/2.      Size    I6I/2    takes    21/b    yards 
35-inch   fabric.    35c 

9249 — Designed    to    slenderize — 
the  paneled  hipline   makes   you   look 
inches  slimmer.    Half  Sizes  14V^-24i/4. 
Size   161/2   takes  4%   yards  39-inch 
fabric.  35<;- 


Send  ihirly-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to: 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Department,  P.  O.  Box 
137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  N.  Y.  Add 
five  cents  for  each  pattern   for   first-class  mailing. 


NOW 


iHme^l^^/ 


ALL  DAY  L0N6...F0R  EVERY  SUMMER  ACTIVITY 


NEW  PLAYTEX 


BRA 


At  last,  a  bra  so  beautifully  designed  that  it  gives 
heavenly  comfort  and  a  gloriously  youthful  look  to  all  sizes ...  A  to  D  cups/ 


1953  International  Latex  Corp'n.  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Dover  Del  *  In  Canada:  Playtex  Ltd.  .  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  .  Arnprior,  Ont.  su.s.A.  and  foreign  patents  pending 


T 
V 
R 

15 


Girl  on  the  Go 


Each  day  is  a  challenge  and 

an  inspiration  for  Paula  Carr  and 

her  Ohio- West  Virginia  friends 


Paula  interviews  radio  veteran  Sandy  Suyer  of  WMOA 


NEW  York  doesn't  have  all  the  commuters,"  grins 
Paula  Marie  Carr,  who  conducts  five  programs 
on  three  different  stations.  She's  thinking  of  the 
time  the  tape  recordings  for  her  Marietta,  Ohio, 
programs  were  accidentally  thrown  away  and  she 
had  to  rise  at  dawn,  race  to  Marietta  to  remake 
them,  then  speed  back  to  Parkersburg,  West  Vir- 
ginia, in  time  for  a  nine  o'clock  broadcast.  "My 
schedule,"  she  says,  "is  every  bit  as  hectic  as  the 
one  I  used  to  have  in  Manhattan,  where  the  cabs 
used  to  wait  at  the  studio  door  to  get  me  across  town 
to  another  one — except  that  I'm  now  my  own  cab 
driver!"  .  .  .  Paula's  current  weekday  schedule  in- 


T 
V 
R 

16 


Coffee  with  her  dad,  a  teacher,  and  nnom,  a  dramatic  read- 
er, is  o  welconne  break.  Both  always  backed   Paula's  career. 


eludes  Meet  Me  At  Millie's,  on  Station  WCEF  at 
9  A.M.;  Just  Between  Us,  on  Station  WMOA  at 
9:30  A.M.;  Over  The  Back  Fence,  Station  WCEF  at 
10:30  A.M.;  Five  Till  Noon,  Station  WPAR  at  11:55 
A.M.;  and  From  The  Scraphook,  Station  WCEF  at 
3: 45  P.M.  .  .  .  Always  poised  and  good-humored, 
Paula  can  laugh  even  about  the  time,  last  March, 
when  the  Ohio  River  went  on  the  rampage,  flooding 
her  hotel-basement  studio  in  Marietta.  The  flood 
chased  the  station  up  to  the  second  floor,  but  by 
the  time  all  the  equipment  had  been  installed  in 
the  temporary  broadcasting  quarters,  there  was  no 
room  for  Paula.  Her  program  came  from  out  in  the 
hallway.  "I  thought  I'd  have  to  do  that  one  by 
boat,"  she  recalls.  .  .  .  Born  in  McConnelsville,  Ohio, 
Paula  has  lived  with  her  family  in  the  same  little 
white  house  in  Parkersburg  since  she  was  six  years 
old.  As  a  child,  she  produced  plays  in  the  family 
garage,  but,  at  Parkersburg  High  School  and  Ma- 
rietta College,  she  intended  acting  as  a  hobby,  teach- 
ing as  a  career.  Then  two  school  vacations  in 
summer  stock  changed  her  mind  and,  after  gradua- 
tion, Paula  went  to  work  for  Station  WPAR.  .  .  . 
Although  all  her  present  programs — except  Just 
Between  Us — are  done  "live,"  Paula  still  finds  time 
to  act  as  president  and  executive  director  of  the 
Wood  County  United  Cerebral  Palsy  Fund.  She 
relaxes  by  collecting  poems  and  inspirational  bits 
for  her  fourteen  scrapbooks.  "If  there  were  ever  a 
fire,"  Paula  laughs,  "I'd  save  the  scrapbooks  first." 
When  there's  time,  she  also  enjoys  riding  and  golf. 
.  .  .  Every  day,  to  PaUla,  is  a  happy  one,  "just  living 
and  having  my  friends,  my  listeners  and  my  family. 
I'm  a  very  lucky  person."  And,  she  adds,  "Each  day 
is  a  challenge  and  an  inspiration.  That's  not  very 
dramatic,  I  know,  but  it's  the  way  I  feel."  Letters 
and  phone  calls  from  her  many  listeners  in  Ohio 
and  West  Virginia — and  four  little  Parkersburg  girls 
named  after  her — clearly  show  how  everyone  feels 
about  talented  and  personable  Paula  Carr. 


Wonderful  New  Super-Lather*  Shampoo! 


OUT-SHINES  OTHER  SHAMPOOS, 
SHOWS  HAIR'S  HIDDEN  BEAUTY 


Highlights  Are  "Love-Lights"!  Poise,  charm— and 
romance — belong  to  the  woman  whose  hair  shimmers  with 
dancing  highlights.  And  how  can  you  have  this  sparkle  on 
every  date?  By  using  amazing  new  double-rich  Helene  Curtis 
Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo!  Try  it  and  see! 


"Lanolin-Lively"  Foam  . .  • 

Oceans  Of  It Leaves  Hair 

Gleaming,  Obedient,  Lovely! 


Only  the  genius  of  Helene  Curtis  covild  produce  such  an 
amazing  shampoo  as  Lanolin  Lotion  ...  a  shampoo  that 
brings  such  glimmering,  shimmering  radiance  to  your  hair! 
The  secret  lies  in  the  lanolin-rich  lather  of  Lanolin 
Lotion  Shampoo.  You've  never  seen  such  oceans  of  rich, 
velvety  suds  .  .  .  suds  which  are  actually  twice  as  rich 

in  lanolin! 

this   does 


PROOF  IT  OUT-LATHERS 
OTHER  BRANDS 


Helene  Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion 

Shampoo  out-lathers  four  other  brands 

given  the  Cylinder-Foam  test. 


Leave  It  To  The  Ladies  ...  At  parties,  club  meetings,  over  the  fence  .  .  .  the  word 
gets  around:  "Something  new  and  wonderful  is  here!"  Especially  when  it  "does  things"  for 
your  hair,  the  news  spreads  fast.  So  it's  no  wonder  thousands  are  switching  to  "out-shining" 
Helene  Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo! 


And  what  this  does  to 
your  hair  is  amazing  to  see! 
Suddenly  any  hair— even 
problem  hair  that's  had  its 
beauty  oils  dried  or  bleached 
away —captures  new  beauty, 
new  polish,  and  a  new  man- 
ageability that  makes  your 
waves  ripple  into  place. 

Try  Helene  Curtis  Lanolin 
Lotion  Shampoo  for  a  revela- 
tion in  hair  beauty! 


Get  Helene  Curtis 
Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo 
Today!  You'll  fin.d  that 
never  before  has  your  hair  had 
so  much  softness,  so  much 
beauty!  29ff,  59jii  or  $1. 


17 


ASK  YOUR 

DOCTOR  or  DRUGGIST 


END  THAT 

"Certain  Time" 
Odor  Problem 


\> 


rr 


ENIVDS 

Tablets  containing  Darotol® 

that  absorbs  odors  witiiin 

the  body-before  they  start  I 

lization  have  sought  to  cover  it 
turipT'  ^"^e^er-after  many  cen- 

sttc^e^Ltot^oY  i°f  ?-  sTb- 
ess°ences'^r,%°f  ^'^^  T^*  P^^ent 

through  theli*estivi°ys'tem'!t^ 
-wherelfr^  ""  P-^-^  ofTh^body 

pS-a„rst;et°et^',,^,"Letf 

Trial  size  only  49?'?ir^°"»t«'-«- 
even^ore  eclot'icai.'':?|;^-|.? 
are  also  available  in  Canada 

Problem  of  Odor  OfflnL'w '"^,"  ^ 
in  plain  envelope)   write  ''E^MTrli^J^ 

City  i,  New  York!     °"^  ^'^^"^ 


Daytime  Diary 


^Z/  programs  are  heard  Monday  through  Friday;  consult 
local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


^•-o. 


'•■t 


BACKSTAGE  WIPE  Mary  Noble,  wife 
of  actor  Larry  Noble,  is  almost  happy  over 
the  trouble  actress  Elise  Shephard  is  caus- 
ing for  Larry.  In  an  effort  to  make  Larry 
increasingly  dependent  on  her,  Elise  is 
undermining  his  self-confidence  to  the 
point  where  his  career  is  in  danger — and 
this  means  that  he  must  turn  to  Mary  for 
help  and  strength  as  he  used  to  do  before 
Elise  came  into  their  lives.  Will  this  re- 
new their  love?  NBC  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  BAV  On  the  surface, 
Don  Harrick  is  a  talented  architect  hired 
to  plan  the  new  Youth  Center,  and  Lydia 
is  his  charming,  devoted  sister-in-law.  But 
Reverend  Dennis  suspects  the  emotional 
strain  underlying  this  relationship.  Will  he 
be  able  to  help  Lydia  free  herself  from  the 
bondage  into  which  Don's  selfishness  has 
tied  her  ever  since  her  husband's  death? 
What  happens  when  editor  Max  Canfield 
becomes  important  to  her?  CBS-TV  and 
CBS  Radio. 

CONCERNING      MISS      MARLOWE 

When  actress  Maggie  Marlowe  first  met 
Jim  Gavin,  she  knew  he  was  the  kind  of 
man  who  left  his  mark  on  the  lives  of 
those  in  whom  he  was  interested.  Money, 
position,  and  personal  force  made  it  im- 
possible to  consider  him  lightly,  and  Mag- 
gie was  a  little  amused  at  herself  but  not 
too  surprised  when  she  fell  in  love.  But 
the  death  of  Jim's  estranged  wife — and  its 
aftermath — causes  Maggie  to  review  her 
feelings.  NBC-TV. 

THE  OOCTOR'S  WIFE  Dr.  Fred  Con- 
rad is  a  fine  assistant,  and  Dan  has  no 
intention  of  losing  him.  Even  the  difficulty 
that  might  have  arisen  from  Fred's  feeling 
for  Dan's  wife  Julie  seems  to  have  been 
smoothed  away.  But  as  time  goes  on  a 
curious  situation  develops — a  situation 
which  cannot  go  unnoticed  in  a  town  as 
small  as  Stanton.  Will  Julie  be  making  a 
mistake  if  she  tries,  with  her  usual  effi- 
ciency, to  handle  it  herself?    NBC  Radio. 

FIRST  LOVE  Zach  James  is  a  hard 
man  to  live  with  and  to  work  with  because 
it  is  hard  for  him  to  live  with  himself. 
Only  his  wife  Laurie  knows  the  exacting 
standards  toward  which  he  constantly 
pushes  himself,  and  the  bitter  criticism  he 
turns  on  his  own  shortcomings.  Even  when 
the  truth  about  Petey's  death  emerges, 
will  Zach  forgive  himself  for  the  stubborn 
bad  judgment  that  helped  to  place  him  in 
a  false  position?    NBC-TV. 

THE  GREATEST  GIFT  As  a  doctor, 
Eve  knows  all  too  well  the  difficulties  faced 
by  an  alcoholic's  family — and  often  the 
hopelessness  of  attempting  a  cure.  But 
when  the  problem  is  in  her  own  family  it 
becomes  something  entirely  different.  Will 
Eve  be  able  to  evaluate  it  honestly  as  she 
watches  her  sister  Fran  struggling  and 
succumbing?  If  happiness  is  the  only  real 
cure,  must  she  watch  Fran  give  up  all 
hope?    NBC-TV. 


THE  GVIBING  LIGHT  The  knowl- 
edge that  her  former  husband,  Dr.  Dick 
Grant,  is  alive  and  apparently  well  raises 
an  irresistible  hope  in  Kathy's  heart — a 
hope  that  Dick's  friend.  Dr.  Jim  Kelly, 
tries  instinctively  to  discourage  even  be- 
fore he  knows  about  the  new  friendships 
and  loyalties  Dick  formed  in  New  York.  Is 
Kathy  to  know  heartbreak  again  after 
realizing  the  depth  of  her  love  for  Dick? 
And  what  about  the  Bauers'  new  domestic 
problem?    CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

HAWKINS  FALLS  In  the  case  of  Lona 
and  Floyd  Corey,  familiarity  does  not 
breed  contempt,  for  even  though  every  bit 
of  Hawkins  Falls  is  as  familiar  as  the 
backs  of  their  hands — including  its  less 
attractive  aspects — neither  of  them  would 
wish  to  live  anywhere  else  or  find  life  any- 
where else  quite  so  rewarding.  Is  it  pos- 
sible that  not  everyone  in  town  feels 
quite  so  warmly  toward  them?     NBC-TV. 

HILLTOP  HOUSE  A  pathetic  problem 
in  loyalty  occupies  Julie  as  Alvin  Butler, 
released  from  prison,  finds  he  can  only 
clear  his  name  at  the  expense  of  his  wife's 
health.  Knowing  that  she  cannot  stand 
the  shock  of  learning  that  her  father  was 
the  real  criminal,  Alvin  must  content  him- 
self with  regaining  the  love  and  faith  of 
his  children,  who  have  been  Julie's 
charges  at  HiUtop.  Meanwhile,  will  Julie's 
cousin  Nina  really  wreck  her  marriage? 
CBS  Radio 

THE  INNER  FLAME  A  wife  facing 
the  possible  break-up  of  her  marriage  has 
a  bitter  enough  problem,  and  Portia  Man- 
ning has  no  illusions  about  the  future  even 
as  she  stands  by  Walter  during  his  time 
of  need.  But  Dorie  Lawlor's  problem  is 
bad  enough,  not  because  she  will  stand 
accused  as  the  woman  who  broke  up  the 
Manning  home  but  because — though  she 
will  not  admit  it — her  frenzied  attraction 
to  Walter  has  run  its  course.    CBS-TV. 

JOYCE  JOROAN,  M.B.  Joyce  Jordan 
is  a  self-reliant  career  woman — even 
more,  a  scientist.  Accustomed  to  clear, 
logical  thinking  even  about  her  own  emo- 
tional problems,  she  is  ready  to  take  in 
stride  all  the  objections  she  knows  will  be 
raised  to  her  romance  with  Mike  Hill.  But 
has  she  underestimated  her  own  conniv- 
ing little  sister,  Kitty?  With  Mike's  mother 
as  an  ally,  will  Kitty  cause  far  more  harm 
than  Joyce  ever  dreamed?     NBC-TV. 

JUST  PLAIN  BILL  Bill  Davidson  and 
his  daughter  Nancy  stand  at  opposite  sides 
of  an  important  question.  Nancy  believes 
everyone  should  mind  his  own  business, 
and  has  pleaded  with  her  father  to  keep 
out  of  trouble  by  letting  his  friends  solve 
their  own  problems.  But  Bill's  deepest 
belief  is  that  all  men  must  help  one  an- 
other. Despite  his  love  for  Nancy  and  her 
family,  he  refuses  to  turn  a  deaf  ear  to 
any  friend  in  trouble.  Will  he  regret  it  one 
day?  NBC  Radio    {Continued  on  page  24) 


Yes,  here  is  a  man  and  probably  one  of  the  greatest  in  modern 
American  radio -GABRIEL  HEATTER.  Monday  through 
Friday  his  deep,  understanding  and  accurate  appraisal  of  events 
of  the  world  in  which  we  live  and  the  people  with  whom  we  live, 
is  brought  into  millions  of  homes  throughout  the  United  States. 

Hear  Gabriel  Heatter  on  any  of  hundreds  of  easy-to-dial 
stations  of  the  MUTUAL  Network,  the  world's  largest  radio 
network ...  the  ONE  network  that  reaches  ALL  America. 


Tune  in 


on  the  MUTUAL  Network 

Mon.  thru  Fri.—  at : 

7:30-7:45  PM  EASTERN  TIME 
6:30-6:45  PM  CENTRAL  TIME 
6:00-6:15  PM  MOUNTAIN  TIME 
6:00-6:15  PM  PACIFIC  TIME 


T 
V 
R 

19 


rVE W  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


20 


7025 — Combine  dainty  filet  with  regular 
crochet  to  make  this  doily  or  centerpiece. 
Use  No.  30  mercerized  cotton  for  22-inch 
doily;  No.  50  for  smaller;  bedspread  cotton 
for  larger.  Crochet  directions  included.  250 

882 — Just  two  main  pattern  parts  to  this 
gay,   cool  maternity  top.    Trim   with   color- 
ful embroidery.    Maternity  Misses'  Sizes 
12-20.  Tissue  pattern,  transfer.  State  size.  250 

7360 — Rows  of  pineapples,  baby-size  at 
the  waist,  grow  bigger  toward  the  hem. 
Crochet  blouse  and  skirt  of  straw  or  wool 
yarn.    Skirt,  Waist  Sizes  20-22;  24-26;  28-30. 
Blouse  32-34;  36-38.  All  sizes  included.  25^ 

7318 — You'll  have   baby's   new   booties, 
cap  and  jacket  finished  in  a  jiffy.    Made 
in   open   and   closed   shell-stitches   in   3-ply 
baby  yarn.    Use  white  with  pastel. 
Crochet  directions  included.  250 

679 — Jiffy-crochet   this   lovely   set  for 
your  home.    Use  inexpensive  rug   cotton  to 
make  both  bathroom  rug   and   seat  cover. 
Make  one  for  your  bedroom,  too.  250 

7037 — Embroider  the  Bluebirds  of  Happi- 
ness on  kitchen  towels,  pillowcases,  and 
other  linens.    So  pretty — and  easy.   Transfer 
of  six  embroidery  motifs,  4^/4"  x  4^/4"  to 
5"  X  8%";  sixteen,  2"  x  3".  250 

.536 — Daughter  will  be  so  proud  of  her  new 
middy  dress.    Anchor  motif  is  easy  to  em- 
broider— sew    another   version   without 
embroidery.  Child's  Sizes  2,4,6,8,10.  Tissue 
pattern;  transfer.  State  size.  250 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  N.  Y.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  25^  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


Feel  what's  happened!    More  lather.  ..  gentler 
lather.  .  .  kinder  to  your  hair  and  scalp! 


HE.\N 


/()/ik-j^M>/ 


And  New  White  Rain  improves  on 
eueryf/z/ngthis  famous  shampoo  u;a.s' 
famous  for  .  .  .  Hke  leaving  your  hair 
sunshine  bright,  soft  and  managea- 
ble, fresh  as  a  spring  breeze 
Because  this  is  an  exciting  new  for- 
mula developed  especially  for  you . . . 


BY    /WkC       THE     PEOPLE    WHO     KNOW    YOUR     HAIR     BEST! 


First  thing  you'll  notice  about  new, 
improved  White  Rain  is  more  lather. 
Not  just  some  more  lather,  but  loads 
more  of  the  richest,  gentlest  lather 
that  ever  caressed  your  scalp.  Makes 
you  sure  wonderful  things  will  hap- 
pen to  your  hair  .  .  .  and  they  do. 


T 
V 
R 

21 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST  TO  COAST 

«  {^Continued  from  page  6) 


Godfreys  over  for  a  coast-to-coast  chat. 

Also  on  the  CBS  Radio  schedule  is  the 
new  Gary  Crosby  Show,  starring  Bing's 
boy  in  his  own  half-hour  every  Sunday 
night.  Gary  will  also  continue  his  vocal 
spot  on  Tennessee  Ernie's  Monday - 
Wednesday -Friday  broadcasts,  and  in 
the  fall  is  set  for  several  TV  guest  spots. 
There's  the  possibility  of  his  own  tele- 
vision show  looming  in  the  future,  too. 

ABC-TV  has  set  a  couple  of  hillbiUy 
hoedowns  on  their  summer  schedule, 
both  telecast  live  from  Springfield,  Mis- 
souri. The  Slim  Wilson  musical  show 
will  be  seen  every  Tuesday  night  for 
an  hour,  and  on  Saturday  nights  Ozark 
Jubilee  will  go  network,  also  for  an  hour. 

A  few  changes  on  the  CBS-TV  log: 
Music  '55,  starring  Stan  Kenton  and  his 
orchestra,  replaces  the  Ray  Milland  show 
on  Thursday  nights.  Life  With  Father  is 
moving  to  Sundays,  replacing  Lassie, 
until  September  4.  On  that  date  CBS-TV 
hopes  to  find  a  permanent  time  spot  for 
Father  for  the  faU  season.  Halls  Of  Ivy 
is  switching  from  Tuesday  night  to 
Thursday  night  for  the  summer,  with  its 
fall  berth  still  to  be  set.  Comedian  Sam 
Levenson  will  pinch-hit  for  Herb 
Shriner  on  Two  For  The  Money  Satur- 
day nights,  while  the  Hoosier  humorist 
takes  a  summer  vacation.  Shriner  will 
return  on  September  10.  The  U.  S.  Steel 
Hour  will  be  seen  every  other  week, 
alternating  with  a  new  dramatic  show, 
Front  Row  Center.  Songstress  Lois  Hunt, 
of  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  show,  and  her 
husband,  writer  Morton  Hunt,  are  await- 
ing a  visit  from  the  stork,  so  Lois  has 
given  up  television  temporarily.  Jane 
Wilson  has  taken  her  place  on  the 
Robert  Q.  programs.  You'll  remember 
Jane  as  the  beauteous  brunette  soprano 
on  the  old  Fred  Waring  programs. 

The  Arthur  Murray  Party  is  back  on 
NBC-TV,  on  Tuesday  nights,  at  least 
until  September.  As  usual,  the  program 
will  star  Katherine  Murray,  the  vigorous 
forty-eight-year-old  grandmother,  who 
does  cartwheels  for  the  cameras. 

Bishop  Fulton  J.  Sheen  will  switch 
from  the  Du  Mont  network  to  ABC-TV 
this  fall  and  he  will  present  his  Life  Is 
Worth  Living  series  on  radio  as  well. 
The  actual  figures  of  Bishop  Sheen's 
"salary"  have  never  been  officially  re- 
leased, but  he  is  said  to  have  received 
$16,000  a  week  from  Du  Mont,  with  a 
promise  of  an  increase  from  ABC — all  of 
which,  of  course,  goes  directly  to  charity. 


T 
V 
R 

22 


Butter — 400  pounds  of  It — went  Into  nnaking  this  cow  which  was  the  highlight  of 
Garry  Moore's  I've  Got  A  Secret  show  when  It  featured  a  "country  fair"  thenne. 


Hit  Parader  Russell  Arms  is  soon 
to  be  a  "spectacular"  performer. 


This   'n'   That: 

NBC-TV  has  signed  Maurice  Evans 
to  produce  and  direct  the  Hallmark 
Hall  Of  Fame  series  this  fall,  with  the 
first  hour-and-a-half  production  sched- 
uled to  be  a  musical  adaptation  of  "AUce 
in  Wonderland." 

MarUn  Perkins,  of  the  popular  Zoo 
Parade  TV  show,  is  taking  off  for  Africa 
in  search  of  rare  creatures  for  the  fall 
series  of  the  program.  When  he  comes 
back  through  customs,  Marlin  hopes  to 
have  such  cozy  little  specimens  in  his 
luggage    as    pangolins    and    rare    snakes. 

Congratulations  to  Lawrence  Spivak 
and  Meet  The  Press  on  the  tenth  an- 
niversary   of   their    news-making    panel. 

Actor  Gig  Young  has  been  set  as  the 
host  for  the  forthcoming  Warner  Broth- 
ers Presents  television  series,  which 
debuts  this  fall.  Young  will  serve  as 
emcee,  and  will  also  be  featured  in  the 
"Behind  the  Cameras  at  Warner  Broth- 
ers" segment  of  each  show. 

Looks  like  Imogene  Coca  won't  have 
her  own  half-hour  show  next  season, 
after  her  unfortunate  experience  this 
year.  However,  she  still  has  a  contract 
with  NBC-TV  and  the  network  plans  to 
spot  her  in  selected  guest  appearances 
on  some  of  their  big  shows. 

Susan  Strasberg,  the  teen-age  dra- 
matic television  actress,  has  been  signed 
by  Columbia  Pictures  to  play  the  role 
of  the  younger  sister,  Millie,  in  "Picnic," 
which  will  star  William  Holden  and 
Rosalind  Russell. 

Ex-Godfrey  singer  Marion  Marlowe 
has  been  signed  to  a  record  contract 
by  the  Cadence  label.  Marion  was  for- 
merly under  contract  to  Columbia  Rec- 
ords, but  asked  for  and  received  her 
release.  Cadence  also  has  Julius  La  Rosa 
and  The  Chordettes  on  their  roster,  all 
former  Little  Godfreys. 

Songstress  Connie  Haines  has  taken 
leave  of  the  Frankie  Laine  filmed  tele- 
vision show  to  become  a  mama,  but 
plans  to  return  to  work  later  on. 

Ceorgiana  Carhart,  the  "Grand  Dame" 
of  Du  Mont's  Life  Begins  At  Eighty  show, 
recently   celebrated  her  ninetieth  birth- 


day, and  quite  a  celebration  she  had. 
Georgiana  received  congratulatory  wires 
from  Bishop  Fulton  J.  Sheen,  New  York's 
Governor  Averell  Harriman.  Even  Presi- 
dent Eisenhower  telegraphed  her:  "Please 
accept  my  sincere  congratulations  upon 
your  birthday.  May  good  health  be  yours 
through  many  more  happy  years." 
"Young"  Miss  Carhart  is  starting  her 
seventh  year  on  television,  having  joined 
Life  Begins  At  Eighty  when  she  was  a 
"kid"  of  eighty-four. 

Mulling   The  Mail: 

Miss  H.M.V.,  Cleveland,  O.:  You  might 
write  Bill  Lawrence  at  Station  WPIX, 
New  York  City.  .  .  .  Mrs.  C.R.,  EUinwood, 
Kans.:  Yes,  Charlie  Applewhite  is  mar- 
ried. And  Jan  Arden  has  been  doing  club 
work  since  she  left  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis 
shows.  Robert  Q.  departed  The  Name's 
The  Same  because  of  the  pressure  of  his 
other  television  and  radio  work. . . .  View 
Street  Neighbors,  Oakland,  Calif.:  Mary 
Livingstone  has  not  retired  from  show 
business,  but  she  rarely  appears  on  Jack 
Benny's  television  shows,  unless  they're 
filmed,  as  live  TV  makes  her  too  nervous. 
.  .  .  Miss  W.W.,  Parrish,  Ala.:  For  a  pic- 
ture of  Julius  La  Rosa,  I  suggest  you 
write  him  c/o  CBS,  485  Madison  Avenue, 
New  York  City.  .  .  .  Mrs.  B.L.,  Ann 
Arbor,  Mich.:  Ding  Dong  School  now 
originates  in  New  York  instead  of  Chicago 
because  Dr.  Frances  Horwich,  Miss 
Frances,  has  been  given  an  executive 
position  with  NBC,  as  Supervisor  of 
Children's  Programs  for  the  network, 
and  this  necessitated  her  presence  in 
Manhattan.  .  .  .  Miss  J.L.,  Troy,  N.Y., 
and  others  who  asked  about  Gene  Ray- 
burn:  Gene  has  been  off  the  Tonight  TV 
show  because  of  a  bad  bout  with  hepati- 
tis. He  is  in  the  hospital  at  this  writing, 
but  hopes  to  leave  the  hospital  soon, 
recuperate  at  home,  and  return  to  work 
sometime  this  summer.  .  .  .  Mr.  M.R., 
Chicago,  111.:  The  catchy  theme  song  on 
The  George  Gobel  Show,  is  an  original 
melody  composed  by  conductor  John 
Scott  Trotter,  and  it  is  titled  "Gobelues." 
.  .  .  Mrs.  L.N.McM.,  St.  Louis,  Mo.:   The 


Four  generations  of  One  Man's  Family: 
Nancy  Lou  Harrington;  Borbra  Fuller; 
baby  Kimberly  Smith;ancl  Minetto  Ellen. 


Chicago  Theater  Of  The  Air  was  broad- 
cast steadily  for  almost  fifteen  years,  and 
only  went  off  a  few  weeks  ago,  following 
the  death  of  Col.  Robert  R.  McCormick, 
publisher  of  the  Chicago  Tribune,  who 
started  the  program  on  WGN  in  Chicago, 
the  station  owned  by  the  Tribune. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  ...  ? 

Jane  Harvey,  who  sang  on  many  tele- 
vision shows  a  few  seasons  back,  and  was 
also  quite  active  in  night-club  work?  Jane 
has  more  or  less  given  up  her  career  since 
she  married  Bob  Thiele,  director  of 
artists  and  repertoire  for  Coral  Records. 

Teddy  Wilson,  the  jazz  pianist,  who 
starred  on  his  own  radio  show  over  CBS 
on  Saturdays?  Teddy's  program  went  off 
a  few  weeks  ago  and  he  journeyed  to 
Hollywood,  where  he  has  just  started 
work  at  Universal-International,  playing 
himself  in  "The  Benny  Goodman  Story." 
He  is  not  set  for  any  radio  or  television 
work  until  the  picture  is  finished. 

Harry  Prime,  former  vocalist  with 
Ralph  Flannagan's  orchestra,  who  also 
sang  on  several  network  radio  shows  out 
of  New  York  City?  Harry  has  recently 
joined  the  staff  of  Station  WCAU  in 
Philadelphia  and  has  been  singing  on 
local  radio  shows  there. 

Bob  Hawk,  one  of  radio's  most  popu- 
lar emcees  and  quizmasters?  Bob  seems 
to  have  given  up  all  plans  for  returning 
to  radio  or  television.  At  the  moment  he 
is  Uving  quietly  in  Santa  Barbara,  Calif- 
ornia, where  he  is  a  partner  in  a  build- 
ing and  construction  company. 


Ij  you  have  a  question  about  one  of  your 
favorite  people  or  programs,  or  wonder 
what  has  happened  to  someone  on  radio 
or  television,  drop  me  a  line.  Miss  Jill 
Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd 
St.  New  York  17,  N.  Y.,  and  I'll  try  my 
best  to  find  out  for  you  and  put  the  in- 
formation in  the  column.  Unfortunately, 
we  don't  have  space  to  answer  all  ques- 
tions, so  I  try  to  cover  those  personalities 
and  shows  about  whom  I  receive  the 
most  inquiries.  Sorry,  no  personal  an- 
swers, so  kindly  do  not  enclose  stamped 
envelopes  or  postage,  as  they  cannot  be 
returned. 


How  to  make  your  life 
abed  of  roses... 


A^u^ 


7a^  {2(yi —  7fe.^^^^ii^i-^.^<^^4^>w 


'(n^y 


cashmere  bouquet 


Cashmere 
BouftueT 


59^29^ 


Plus  Tax 


T 
V 
R 

23 


Replies  From  Survey  Reveal: 

NURSES 

9iwD0IICIIINGm»> 

ZONITE 

IDR  FEMININE  HVGIENt 


Daytime  Diary 


(Continued  from  page  18) 


24 


What  Greater  Assurance  Can  a 
Bride-to-be  or  Married  Woman  Have 

Women  who  value  true  married  happi- 
ness and  physical  charm  know  how 
essential  a  cleansing,  antiseptic  and  de- 
odorizing douche  is  for  intimate  femi- 
nine cleanliness  and  after  monthly 
periods. 

Douching  has  become  such  a  part  of 
the  modern  way  of  life  an  additional 
survey  showed  that  of  the  married 
women  who  replied: 
83.3%  douche  after  monthly  periods. 
86.5%  at  other  times. 
So  many  women  are  benefiting  by  this 
sanitary  practice — why  deny  yourself? 
What  greater  "peace  of  mind"  can  a 
woman  have  than  to  know  zonite  is  so 
highly  regarded  among  nurses  for  the 
douche  ? 

ZONITE's  Many  Advantages 

Scientific  tests  proved  no  other  type 
liquid  antiseptic-germicide  for  the 
douche  of  all  those  tested  is  so  power- 
fully EFFECTIVE  yet  SAFE  to  body 
tissues  as  zonite.  It's  positively  non- 
poisonous,  non-irritating.  You  can  use 
ZONITE  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A 
ZONITE  douche  immediately 
washes  away  odor-causing 
deposits.  It  completely  de- 
odorizes. Leaves  you  with  a 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence. Inexpensive.  Costs 
only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 

If  any  abnormal  condition  exists, 
see  your  doctor. 


LOREXZO  JONES  Still  suffering  from 
a  complete  lapse  of  memory,  Lorenzo  feels 
that  Belle  is  a  threat  to  his  happiness 
rather  than  the  wife  he  once  loved  so 
deeply  and — Belle  believes — would  still 
love  if  he  could  regain  his  memory.  Only 
when  Belle  is  on  the  verge  of  giving  up 
and  leaving  does  Lorenzo  show  any  sign  of 
recalling  the  past,  but  the  vague  flicker 
has  never  lasted.  Is  there  any  hope  for 
Belle?     NBC  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Vanessa's  miscarriage 
takes  second  place  in  her  thoughts  as  the 
full  truth  about  Paul's  first  marriage  is 
finally  revealed — the  truth  Paul  hoped  she 
would  never  have  to  know.  But  the 
knowledge  of  the  miserable  fate  of  the 
child  born  to  Judith  Raven  has  a  strange 
and  unexpected  effect  on  Van — an  effect 
which  may  change  her  whole  life  and  keep 
her   marriage  .from   foundering.    CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  A  problem  unhappily 
reminiscent  of  one  that  King  Solomon 
solved  faces  Ma  as  Gladys  and  Joe  dis- 
cover their  missing  baby — in  the  home  of 
a  young  couple  who  innocently  hoped  to 
adopt  her  and  have  grown  to  love  her. 
There  seems  no  way  of  avoiding  heart- 
break, but  fate  takes  a  hand.  What  about 
the  future  of  the  young  family  so  dear  to 
Ma's  heart?  And  what  about  the  new — 
and    unexpected — ^problem?     CBS    Radio. 

OI7K  GAL  SVNBAY  The  death  of  Les- 
lie Northurst  removes  the  most  serious 
threat  that  has  ever  menaced  the  happi- 
ness of  Sunday  and  Lord  Henry,  for  now 
Lord  Henry's  title  and  estates  can  no 
longer  be  endangered  by  Leslie's  false 
claim.  But  Sunday  quickly  realizes  that 
it  has  given  way  to  another  danger — for 
Lord  Henry  had  an  excellent  motive  for 
wanting  Leslie  out  of  the  way.  What  hap- 
pens as  suspicion  gathers  around  Henry? 
CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  VOVNG'S  FAMILY  While 
the  Youngs  search  desperately  for  Peggy's 
husband  Carter,  Carter  himself  is  cltunsily 
trying  to  establish  a  new  life  for  himseLf 
in  New  York,  convinced  that  if  he  returns 
to  Elmdale  criminal  charges  against  him 
will  disgrace  the  family.  What  part  will 
pretty,  helpful  Noel  play  in  this  life?  And 
what  of  Peggy,  who  finds  Biff  Bradley  and 
Dave  Wallace  taking  up  more  and  more 
of  her  time?     NBC  Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  Sam  Merriweather  is 
a  very  wealthy,  powerful  man — and  this, 
Perry  knows,  explains  the  strange  events 
that  have  suddenly  begun  to  upset  the 
smooth  efficiency  of  his  organization.  Is 
Sam's  secretary  Lois  really  losing  her 
grip?  Or  is  Sam's  daughter  Eve  respon- 
sible for  the  odd  things  Lois  appears  to 
have  done?  Whatever  the  plot  is,  will  it 
succeed  before  Sam  learns  that  Lois  is 
his  real  daughter,  Eve  an  impostor?  CBS 
Radio. 

THE  RIGHT  TO  HAPPINESS  Ever 
since  Miles  Nelson  first  embarked  on  a 
political  career,  Annette  Thorpe  has  made 
herself  a  powerful  force  in  both  his  public 
and  private  life.  Not  even  Miles  himself 
can  remain  blind  to  Annette's  uncon- 
cealed hatred  of  Carolyn,  but  he  believes 
he  can  retain  control  of  the  situation  and 
still  avail  himself  of  Annette's  consider- 
able influence.  But  Carolyn  knows  Miles 
is  deceiving  himself.    NBC  Radio. 


THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  Dr.  Jim  Brent 
continues  his  attentions  to  Sibyl  Overton 
Fuller,  hoping  to  unmask  her  role  in  Joce- 
lyn's  deportation.  But  Sibyl  has  deceived 
herself  into  believing  that  Jim  really  loves 
her  and  will  divorce  Jocelyn.  What  will 
happen  as  Sibyl  tries  to  force  the  issue 
and  as  she  herself  is  subjected  to  pressure 
by  those  who  know  her  secret?  And  how 
will  Jim  react  when  he  learns  that  Joce- 
lyn, too,  has  a  secret — the  child  she  is  to 
bear  him?     CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

Buoyed  up  by  hope  that  Gil  Whitney's 
divorce  from  his  wife  Cynthia  will  at  last 
clear  the  way  for  his  marriage  to  her, 
Helen  refuses  to  take  seriously  the  con- 
stant pursuit  of  millionaire  Brett  Chap- 
man. But  Chapman  has  vowed  that  he 
will  recapture  Helen's  interest.  Has  he 
found  an  unwitting  ally  in  Gil's  own  jeal- 
ousy— and  another  in  Gil's  pretty  secre- 
tary. Fay  Granville?     CBS  Radio. 

ROSEMARY  Bill's  newspaper  campaign 
against  the  drug-pushing  criminals  who 
have  been  getting  to  Springdale's  young- 
sters has  brought  him  up  against  bigger 
opposition  than  he  realizes.  Time  after 
time  he  and  the  police  find  themselves  on 
the  verge  of  success  only  to  have  it  slip 
out  of  their  reach.  How  soon  will  Bill 
realize  that  Ray  Calder,  considered  a 
friend  by  Rosemary,  has  a  lot  to  do  with 
this?    CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH  FOR  TOMORROW    Stu 

Bergman's  boss  unwittingly  turns  a  hur- 
ricane force  loose  in  Henderson  when  his 
Southern  niece,  Melissa,  comes  .up  for  a 
visit.  Ruthless  and  determined,  Melissa 
has  a  single-minded  plan  to  capture  a 
rich  husband  for  herself  and  the  charm, 
when  she  cares  to  turn  it  on,  to  make  this 
possible.  Will  it  matter  to  her  that  the 
man  she  selects  is  married — or  that  she 
may  indirectly  aid  an  evil  plot?  CBS -TV. 

SECOND  HUSBAND  Despite  her  faith 
in  Wayne's  love,  Diane  Lockwood  cannot 
help  wondering  if  her  second  marriage  will 
turn  out  to  be  a  mistake.  Her  two  children 
are  still  not  completely  reconciled  to  ac- 
cepting Wayne  as  their  father,  and  Wayne's 
family  have  never  given  up  hoping  that 
his  cousin,  Claire  Walcott,  would  become 
his  wife.  Will  Claire,  with  the  subtle  help 
of  Wayne's  mother,  manage  to  cause  real 
trouble  in  this  new  marriage?    CBS  Radio. 

THE    SECOND    MRS.     BURTON 

Terry's  mother-in-law,  the  dowager  Mrs. 
Burton,  is  so  determined  to  run  the  lives 
of  her  children  that  she  seems  willing  to 
damage  her  own  interests  to  keep  them 
from  acting  independently.  In  the  recent 
fracas  over  the  paper  she  and  Stan  jointly 
own,  she  very  nearly  defrauded  herself 
as  she  tried  to  teach  Stan  a  lesson.  If 
she  got  married — as  the  family  hopes  she 
will — would  she  really  be  less  of  a  prob- 
lem?    CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Some  time  ago, 
after  the  death  of  his  wife,  Peter  Ames 
decided  to  stay  in  the  town  where  he  had 
built  his  life,  despite  the  fact  that  his  sis- 
ter-in-law's neurotic  hatred  of  him  prom- 
ised little  peace  for  the  future.  Now  that 
Peter  has  found  a  new  chance  for  happi- 
ness, would  he  be  wiser  to  pull  out  be- 
fore Pauline  ruins  not  only  his  future  but 
th=?t  of  his  children?    CBS-TV. 


ST£LI..t  DALLAS  Lovely  Janice  Ben- 
net  had  thrown  new  complications  into 
the  already  tangled  situation  involving 
Stella's  daughter  Laurel.  In  an  effort  to 
save  Laurel's  marriage,  Stella  has  en- 
couraged a  pretended  romance  between 
Janice  and  Stanley  Warrick,  whose  mother 
has  tried  to  engineer  a  divorce  between 
Laurel  and  Dick  Grosvenor.  Has  Stella 
only  hastened  disaster?   NBC  Radio. 

THiS  MS  \OnA  DRAKE  The  bitter 
aftermath  of  her  husband  Fred's  death  is 
slightly  relieved  for  Nora  as  she  and  the 
police  succeed  in  bringing  to  justice  the 
criminals  responsible  for  it.  But  punish- 
ing them  is  another  problem — a  problem 
complicated  for  Nora  by  a  new  and  puz- 
zling friendship.  What  part  will  the  at- 
tractive young  reporter  David  play  in  her 
life — and  what  strange  relationship  de- 
velops with  his  sister?     CBS  Radio. 

VALiAXT  LADY  Bill  Eraser's  accident 
has  left  him  in  a  peculiar  psychological 
condition — a  fear  of  the  outside  world  that 
Margot  intends  to  turn  to  her  own  advan- 
tage by  feaggerating.  Helen's  affectionate 
effort  to  help  Bill  is  hampered  not  only  by 
Margot's  wiUness  but  by  her  own  inability 
to  offer  the  kind  of  love  Bill  really  wants 
from  her.  Meanwhile,  in  New  York,  Diane 
falls  deeper  into  a  web  she  cannot  even 
understand.     CBS-TV. 

WEXDY  WAnnE\  A\D  THE  iVEW  S 

Busy  days  as  editor  of  a  small-town  paper 
give  Wendy  the  illusion  that  her  life  is 
fully  occupied.  But  she  knows  all  too  well 
that  it  is  an  illusion,  for  the  happiness 
of  her  marriage  to  Mark — even  though  it 
ended  in  tragedy — has  left  her  with  the 
knowledge  that  a  career  is  not  enough  to 
fill  her  life  completely.    CBS  Radio. 

WUEy    A    GiRL    MARRiES    The 

trumped-up  accusation  of  bribery  against 
which  Harry  Davis  must  defend  himself 
has  caused  Joan  to  undertake  some  dan- 
gerous activities.  Probing  for  the  secrets 
of  the  gambling  underworld  which  threat- 
ens them,  she  has  made  more  enemies  and 
some  odd  friends — and  loyalty  to  these 
new  friends  leads  Joan  to  a  crisis.  Will 
she  have  to  call  on  Phil  Stanley  for  help? 
ABC  Radio. 

W03tAN  IX  MY  HOl'SE  Now  that 
the  Carters  are  more  or  less  grown-up, 
there  aren't  so  many  of  them  around  the 
Carter  house  much  of  the  time.  And  yet, 
no  matter  how  far  they  roam,  they  keep 
coming  back  to  the  center  of  the  family 
when  there  are  problems  to  be  solved. 
Jessie  Carter  knows  that  it  is  now  her 
function  to  know  when  to  help,  how  much 
to  help — and  when  not  to  help  at  all. 
NBC  Radio. 

YOl'XG  DR.  MALONE  Marcia  Sut- 
ton Mason  finds  herself  caught  in  her  own 
trap  as  the  friendship  she  invented  for 
Tracey  Malone  turns  out  to  be  the  real 
thing.  Will  she  continue  with  the  plan  she 
and  her  ambitious  husband  conceived — the 
plan  that,  if  successful,  will  destroy  Jerry 
Malone's  position  as  head  of  the  Dineen 
Clinic  and  put  Ted  in  his  place?  Or  will 
loyalty  to  Tracey  make  a  startling  change 
in  her  whole  life?     CBS  Radio. 

YOLXG  WIDDER  DROWN  Though 
he  knows  that  he  was  tricked  into  mar- 
riage with  Millicent,  Dr.  Anthony  Loring 
is  at  last  forced  to  realize  that  at  the 
moment  there  is  no  legal  way  of  ending 
that  marriage.  Faced  with  the  knowledge 
that  he  must  renounce  all  hope  of  a  future 
with  Ellen  Brown,  Anthony  becomes 
strangely  ill,  and  his  illness  causes  an  im- 
portant change  in  Ellen's  life.  NBC  Radio. 


The  one-the  only-the  original 
Ckttkks '$iteti -^^0  put  Lanolin 
in  the  language-makes  this 
special  offer  for  beautiful  hair! 


LiQUiO 

formula  9  l      formula  9 


Super  Lanolin  Formula  9  puts 
new  life  in  dead-looking  hair 

Before  Charles  Antell  came  on  the  scene,  you  hardly  heard  of  the 
word  LANOLIN.  Now  there  are  hundreds  of  products  for  hair  care, 
all  trying  to  inoitate  the  original. 

But  now  they're  all  outdated!  Old  fashioned!  Now  there's  Charles 
Antell  Formula  9  with  SUPER-LanoHn,  that  gives  you  a  clean,  healthy 
scalp  and  beautiful,  lustrous  hair.  SUPER-Lanolin  is  actually  three 
times  more  beneficial  to  hair  and  scalp  because  it  retains  three  times 
the  vital  moisture  and  natural  oUs  healthy  hair  needs. 

To  get  you  to  try  this  new,  improved  Charles  Antell  Formula  9 , 
with  SUPER-Lanolin,  we  make  the  very  special  offer  above.  Try  it! 
If  you  don't  hke  it — your  money  will  be  cheerfuUy  refunded! 

Remember!  There's  only  one  Charles  Antell!  There's  only  one 
SUPER-Lanolin!  Beware  of  imitations! 

CHARLES  ANTELL,  INC.,  BALTIMORE,  MARYLAND 


25 


As  Tinker  the  Toymaker 
and  Corny  the  Cloivn  over 
W ABC-TV,  genial 
Boh  Keeshan  proves  he's 


Tinker's  Work  Shop:  "Tinker"  and  his  young  viewers  chat  and  breakfast  together. 


DOUBLY  DELIGHTFUL 


Time  For  Fun:  Bob  is  back  at  noon,  as  Corny  the  Clown, 
with  his  sponiel,  Pudgie,  to  have  lunch  with  youngsters. 


26 


NEVER  underestimate  the  wisdom  of  a  child"  is  a  motto 
quiet-spoken,  gentle -mannered  Bob  Keeshan  has  lived 
by  with  tremendous  success.    As  Tinker  the  Toymaker 
on  Tinker's  Work  Shop,  seen  daily  over  New  York's  Station 
WABC-TV  from  8  to  9  A.M.,  and  as  Corny  the  Clovm  on 
Tiw,e  For  Fun,  at  noon  on  the  same  station,  Bob  is  the 
rage  of  the  junior  T Viewing  set.    Entertainment  and 
instruction  keynote  both  Bob's  shows  as  he  deals  with 
everything  from  good  safety  and  living  habits  to  advice  on 
how  to  dress,  what  the  weather's  like,  and  why  youngsters 
should  not  "hide  yourself  in  the  refrigerator."  And,  of 
course,  Bob  tells  stories,  plays  records,  and  features  little 
comedy  sketches.    Scores  of  letters   of  approval   and 
gratitude  from  children  and  adults  testify  constantly  that 
Bob  possesses  an  unusual  and  invaluable  understanding  of 
children.    This  is  backed  by  nine  years  of  continuous 
experience  with  little  ones.  .  .  .  Bob  had  his  first  introduc- 
tion to  show  business  as  an  NBC  page  boy.  After  time 
out  during  the  war  when  he  served  in  the  Marines,  he 
returned  to  NBC,  still  as  a  page,  and  much  of  his  work 
centered  about  Bob  Smith's  office.  At  the  time.  Smith  had  a 
TV  show  called  Triple  B  Ranch.   Later,  when  Howdy 
Doody  was  created.  Smith  asked  Bob  to  join  him  as  a  special 
assistant.   As  a  general  "utility  man,"  Bob  would  occa- 
sionally  appear   on-camera.    Eventually,   this   led  to  his 
being  dressed  as  a  clown,  and  making  regular  appearances. 
For  five  years.  Bob  delighted  children  as  Clarabell  the 
Clown.    Then  he  decided  to  branch  out  on  his  own. 
Eight  months  later,  he  joined  WABC-TV  as  Corny  the 
Clown  and,  a  year  later,  he  doubled  his  delightful  efforts 
and  became  Tinker  the  Toymaker  as  well.  ...  In  addition 
to  his  understanding  of  children.  Bob  has  always  shown 
a  great  love  for  them.  A  model  family  man,  he  is  the  father 
of  three:  Michael,  4;  Laurie,  2;  and  Maeve,  6  months. 
Bob  met  his  wife  five  years  ago  when  she  was  a  receptionist 
at  ABC.    At  the  time,  Jeanne  was  bent  on  a  career  in 
radio,  but  Bob  soon  changed  her  mind.   The  Keeshans  now 
live  in  West  Islip,  Long  Island,  where  Bob  is  active  in 
community  affairs,  serving  on  the  Board  of  Education  and 
taking  part  in  many  civic  activities.    Bob's  fondest 
leisure-time  activity  is  gardening,  which,  he  says,  "I  enjoy 
very  much,  though  I'm  not  very  good  at  it."  .  .  .  Nine 
years  as  a  youngsters'  delight  have  convinced  Bob  that  this 
is  the  kind  of  work  he  wants  to  keep  doing  indefinitely. 
It  has  long  been  obvious  that  his  thousands  of  little 
followers  hope  he  will  do  just  that. 


For  the  Easiest  Permanent 
of  Your  Life  . . . 


fcASUAL 

PIN- CURL  A 


SET  IT  / 


S' 


Set  your  pin-curls  just  as  you  always  do. 
_      No  need  for  anyone  to  help 


\ 


WET  IT  / 


I 


4 


db 


Apply  Casual  lotion  just  once. 
15  minutes  later,  rinse  with  clear  water. 


FORGET  IT.' 


That's  all  there  is  to  it!  CASUAL  is 

self-neutralizing.  There's  no  resetting. 

Your  work  is  finished  I 


Naturally  lovely,  carefree  curls 

that  last  for  weeks  ... 

Casual  is  the  word  for  it . . .  soft,  carefree  waves 

and  curls  — never  tight  or  kinky— beautifully  manageable, 

perfect  for  the  new  flattering  hair  styles  that  highlight  the  softer, 

natural  look.  Tonight  — give  yourself  the  loveliest  wave 

of  your  life  — a  Casual  pin-curl  permanent! 

takes  just  15  minutes  more  than  setting  your  hair! 

$1.50  PLUS  TAX 


RRfECipUS    COIVII 


YOUR    l»n(ECl€>US    COIVIRI-EXIOIM     DESERVES 


'I  just  love  new  cold  cream  Camay,"  says  Mrs.  Williom  Albert  Neff,  a  beautiful  Camay  Bride.  "It's  so  mild 
and  gentle,  and  it  always  leaves  my  skin  feeling  wonderfully  soft  and  smooth." 


J^O  itkPiy  C^eOu^  0<^  ^ClAA^bM  Mmyjkhv  ^Jikt  UimOUU 


( 


With  that  skin-pampering  mildness,  exclusive  fragrance, 
and  lu.xurious  lather,  Camay  with  cold  cream  is  the  beauty  secret 
of  so  many  exquisite  brides.  And  it  can  be  the  best  friend 
your  complexion  ever  had.  Let  it  bring  new  loveliness  to  you. 
Change  to  regular  care  .  .  .  Camay's  Caressing  Care. 
You'll  be  delif^hted  as  your  skin  becomes  fresher,  smoother, 
softer.  Remember,  too,  there's  precious  cold  cream  in  Camay, 
extra  luxury  at  no  extra  cost.  For  your  beauty  and  your  bath, 
there's  no  liner  soap  in  all  the  world ! 


Let  It  help  you  to  a.  softer,  smoother, 

more  radiant  complexion ! 


THE  SOAP 


OF   BEAUTIFUL  WOMEN 


To  the  three  lovely  singing  McGuires,  "sisters"  is  much  more  than  just  a  word 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 


THE  AMAZING  STORY  began  with  the  arrival  of  Asa 
and  Lily  McGuire's  first  little  girl  on  July  30,  1928. 
Mrs.  McGuire  cradled  baby  Chris  and  crooned: 
"You're  so  cute,  you  should  have  been  twins."  About 
a  year  and  a  half  later,  Dot  came  along,  and  Mrs. 


McGuire  put  Chris  and  Dot  together,  shook  her  head 
in  wonderment,  and  purred:  "You  should  have  been 
triplets."  A  year  later,  Phyllis  was  born.  Three  little 
girls.    No  more,  no  less. 

If  Mr.  McGuire  had  expected  a  boy — after  all,  his 

See  Next  Page- 


mt 


Chris,  Phyl  and  Dot  work  hard — but  it's  fun  when  they 
read   the  McGuIre  Sisters'  growing,  glowing  fan  mall. 


Time  out  for  a  snack — but  you  can  be  sure  the  girls  are 
discussing  their  songs,  or  at  least  humming  a  happy  tune. 


a^/m^  mQ^A 


^/mm/i 


f 


{Continued) 


brothers  each  had  sons  in  their  families — he  has  long 
since  forgotten  any  fleeting  disappointment.  Today,  he 
ranks  first  among  the  McGuire  Sisters'  fans,  and  the 
tunefid  trio  has  fan  clubs  in  such  farflung  areas  as  the 
Philippines,  Mexico,  Cuba,  Japan,  Holland,  Brooklyn, 
and  Texas.    They  have  definitely  arrived. 

But,  no  matter  how^  triiimphant  the  McGuire  Sisters 
have  been,  no  matter  how  chic  and  sophisticated  they 
seem,  Chris  and  Dot  and  Phyllis  are  essentially  a  home 


product,  like  real  corn  fritters  or  old-fashioned  angel 
cake.  Before  they  ever  left  home,  they  had  poise  and 
dignity,  discipline  and  endurance,  faith  and  sincerity. 
Even  their  singing  is  a  home  product,  for  they  began 
harmonizing  when  Phyllis,  the  baby,  reached  three 
and  was  old  enough  to  memorize.  The  girls — ^with 
shingle  bobs  and  fashionable  bangs — sang  for  f\in,  as 
did  their  parents,  who  played  the  mandolin  and  guitar. 
Home  was  a  frame  house,  always  freshly  painted  in 


Biggest  part  of  their  professional  life  to  date,  of  course,  has  been  their  appearances  on  the  great  Arthur  Godfrey  pro- 
grams.   In  the  number  below,  Arthur  himself  "goes  Dutch"  with  the  McSuire  Sisters  for  the  all-seeing  TV  cameras. 


30 


Then  back  to  their  piano  and  their  constant  practic 
this  time,  rehearsing  for  a  song  they'll  record  next  day. 


Under  the  guidance  of  manager-direcfor  Murray  Kane, 
the  McGuire  Sisters  harmonize  a  disc  for  Coral  Records. 


white  with  cream  trimmings,  in  Middleton,  Ohio.  "Our 
hving  room  was  Hke  a  hotel  lobby,"  Chris  recalls. 
"People  were  visiting  every  night.  There  were  always 
games  and  singing." 

Chris,  today  a  lithe  beauty,  was  then  the  plump  one 
and  wore  chubby  sizes.  Her  early  years  were  spent 
mostly  in  running  away.  "It's  no  trick  for  a  young 
child  to  wake  up  first,"  she  says,  "so  I  quietly  went 
about  my  own  business — which  was  looking  for 
China." 

As  a  toddler,  they'd  find  Chris  sitting  in  the  middle 
of  the  street  in  her  nightgown.  As  her  legs  grew,  so 
did  her  ambitions,  and  then  she  got  as  far  as  Main 
Street.  Eventually,  she  reached  her  favorite  highway, 
Route  25,  still  in  her  nightgown. 

"When  Chris  wasn't  hitchhiking,  she  headed  for 
Mother's  vanity,"  Dot  says.  "That's  the  picture  of  her 
I'll  never  forget.  Vei-y  methodically  she  would  powder 
each  of  her  feet,  her  right  knee  and  the  top  of  her 
head  until  powder  fairly  dripped  from  her  long  eye- 
lashes." 

These  delightful  and  sometimes  delirious  damsels 
are  all  the  same  height,  five-eight.  They  wear  the 
same  size  dress — ten — but  they  buy  twelve  for  the 
length.  They  favor  black  pumps  and  gray  or  black 
skirts  and  harmonizing  blouses.  They  are  all  brunettes, 
with  brown  eyes  and  brown  hair,  though  Dot  is  a 
touch  on  the  exotic  side,  with  charcoal-brown  eyes  that 
smoke,  smoulder  or  bum — take  your  choice. 

Dot,  too,  is  the  only  one  who  has  retained  the  full 
flavor  of  their  Dixie  accent,  which  was  picked  up  at 
home  from  their  Kentucky-born  parents.  But  you 
don't  hear  much  of  it,  for  Dot  is  quiet,  just  as  she  was 
as  a  child.  "Mother  used  to  say  Dot  was  perfect," 
Chris  remembers,  "until  she   (Continued  on  page  89) 

The  McGuire  Sisters  sing  on:  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  CBS  Radio, 
M-F,  10  A.M.,  and  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M.,'  under  multiple 
sponsorship — Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8 
P.M.,  under  sponsorship  of  The  Toni  Company,  Pillsbury  Mills, 
and  Frigidaire — and  Arthur  Godfrey's  Digest,  CBS  Radio,  Eri., 
8  P.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  (All  times  given  are  EDT.) 


Above,  they  pack  for  a  night-club  engagement — under 
the  golden  disc  which  shows  their  recording  of  "Sincere- 
ly" topped  a  million  sales.  Below,  they  give  their  triple 
autographs — as  their  mother  (at  right)  watches  proudly. 


As  Martin   Block  sp 


By 

IRA 

H. 

KNASTER 


if's  on  the  RECORD 


MARTIN  Block's  "BaUroom"  is  bigger  and  better  than 
ever.  Once  its  dimensions  stretched  merely  from 
say,  upper  Connecticut  to  southern  New  Jersey,  and 
west,  perhaps,  to  points  in  Pennsylvania.  Today— thanks  to 
the  ABC  Radio  network — his  "Make  Believe  Ballroom" 
spreads  its  melodic  enticements  clear  across  the  conti- 
nent. A  lot  more  listeners  are  pleased  about  this,  and  ABC 
Radio  is  right  proud.  Meanwhile,  the  United  States  Post 
Office— readily  adaptable  to  sharp  upswings  in  its  work- 


load— has  pi^obably  taken  a  philosophical  view  of  Martin 
Block's  expansion  from  local  station  to  network  status. 

On  Martin's  desk,  the  morning  batch  of  mail  was 
stacked  high.  Correspondence  from  bandleaders  and 
vocalists.  Communiques  from  recording  companies.  A  mis- 
cellany of  press  releases.  But  mainly,  and  in  great  num- 
bers, letters  from  listeners. 

Impeccably  dressed  in  a  slate-blue  suit,  soft-toned  shirt 
and  subdued  tie,  Martin  leaned  {Continued  on  page  81) 


The  Martin  Block  Show  is  heard  over  the  ABC  Radio  network,  M-F,  from  2:30  to  4  P.M.  EDT.  Martin  Block's  Make  Believe  Ballroom  is 
heard  over  Station  WABC  Radio   (New  York),  M-F,  from  2:30  to  6:45  P.M.,  and  Sat.,  from  9  A.M.  to  noon  and  from  6  to  7:30  P.M. 


32 


^he  tunes,  a  third  generation  listens— and  hears  a  message  of  service  and  devotion 


Above — Martin  Block  not  only  believes  thot  teenagers  deserve  a  chance  for  wholesome  recreation.  He  does  something 
about  It,  with  his  frequent  high-school  get-togethers.  "I've  got  a  personal  ax  to  grind  in  this  matter,"  he  grins. 
B,elow — Martin   and    Esther   with   their   sons   Martin,    Jr.,    14,    Joel    Christopher,    10,    and    Michael,    six-going-on-seven. 


L 


%0^ 


W 


) 


I 


.r 


/ 


32 


Martin 


the  tones,  a  third  generation  listens-and  hears  a  message  of  service  and  devotion 


By 

IRA 

H. 

KNASTER 


If 's  on  ihe  RECORD 


MARUN  Block's  "Ballroom"  is  bigger  and  better  than 
ever.  Once  its  dimensions  stretched  merely  from 
say,  upper  Connecticut  to  southern  New  Jersey,  and 
west,  perhaps,  to  points  in  Pennsylvania.  Today — thanks  to 
the  ABC  Radio  network — his  "Make  Believe  Ballroom" 
spreads  its  melodic  enticements  clear  across  the  conti- 
nent, A  lot  more  listeners  are  pleased  about  this,  and  ABC 
Radio  is  right  proud.  Meanwhile,  the  United  States  Post 
Office — readily  adaptable  to  sharp  upswings  in  its  work- 


load—has probably  taken  a  philosophical  view  of  Martin 
Block's  expansion  from  local  station  to  network  status. 

On  Martin's  desk,   the   morning   batch   of  mail  was 
stacked    high.    Correspondence    from    bandleaders   a" 
vocalists.  Communiques  from  recording  companies.  A  mis- 
cellany of  press  releases.  But  mainly,  and  in  great  num- 
bers, letters  from  listeners.  ,  .^ 

Impeccably  dressed  in  a  slate-blue  suit,  soft-toned  sW 
and  subdued  tie,  Martin  leaned  (Continued  on  page  o'-l 


Above — Martin  Block  not  only  believes  that  teenagers  deserve  o  chance  for  wholesome  recreation.  He  does  something 
about  it,  with  his  frequent  high-school  get-togethers.  "I've  got  a  personal  ax  to  grind  in  this  matter,"  he  grins. 
B,elow — Martin   and   Esther  with   their  sons   Martin,   Jr.,    14,   Joel   Christopher,    10,   and    Michael,    six-golng-on-seven. 


The  Martin  Block  Show  is  heard  over  the  ABC  Radio  network,  M-F,  from  2M  to  4  P.M.  EDT.  Martin  Block's  Make  Believe  Ballroom^ 
heard  over  Station  WABC  Radio   (New  York),  M-F,  from  2:30  to  6:45  P.M.,  and  Sal.,  from  9  A.M.  to  noon  and  from  6  to  7:30  f.m- 


MEET  LINDA  PORTER 


Alias  Mrs.  Jack  C.  Louis — Gloria  at  home  with  her  husband,  sons  Ashley,  9,  and  "J.C.,"  6,  and  daughter  Tish,  \'Vi. 


..;s<S^^  J(lKi% 


fZ     -  — 


M 


Gloria  Louis,  wife  and  mother, 
speaks  to  all  ivives  and  mothers  on 
Way  Of  The  World  and  Justice 

By  ALICE  FRANCIS 

WHEN  Gloria  Loiiis — who  is  Linda  Porter  on  the 
dramatic  TV  programs,  Way  Of  The  World  and 
Justice — goes  home  at  noon  to  have  lunch  with 
her  children,  she  slips  back  as  easily  into  the  role 
of  wife  and  mother  as  if  she  had  never  heard  of 
television.   It's  different  with  the  kids,  however.  Nine- 
year-old  Ashley,  a  "Davy  Crockett"  fan,  may  have 
put  on  his  coonskin  cap  and  thereby  turned  into  that 
famous  frontiersmian.    Six-year-old  J.  C.   (called 
by  his  initials  to  distinguish  him  from  his  daddy.  Jack 
C.  Louis,  Sr.)  may  have  turned  into  his  idol, 
"Superman"  Clark  Kent,  and  insistf  that  his  mother 
answ^er  to  the  name  of  Lois  Lane,  Kent's  girl 
friend.   Only  Tish  (baby  {Continued  on  page  88) 


Her  sons  agree  that  Gloria's  great  on  TV 
as  Linda  Porter  in  Way  Of  The  World  (above, 
with  director  Fred  Carr) — but  not  as  great 
as   either   "Superman"    or   "Davy   Crockett"! 


Gloria  Louis  is  seen  and  heard  as  Linda  Porter, 
hostess  and  narrator  on  Way  Of  The  World,  NBC- TV, 
]^I-F,  10:30  A.M.  EDT,  and  Justice,  NBC-TV,  Thurs., 
8:30  P.M.  EDT,  under  sponsorship  of  the  Borden  Co. 


35 


NEW  STAR 
IN  THE  SKY 

Ifs  hard  to  shine  when  your  dad's 

a  whole  constellation,  hut 

Gary  Crosby's  doing  it—  on  his  own 


By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 

NOT  MANY  MONTHS  AGO,  a  husky  blond  young 
man   drove   away   from   his   fraternity   house 
and  the  tree-shaded  campus  of  Stanford 
University   and  headed   his  red  hardtop  Mei'cury 
south  to  show  business.   Driving  away,  Gary  Crosby 
had  one  regret:  Disappointing  a  dad  who'd  fol- 
lowed that  same  magic  beat  which — like  the  Pipes 
of  Pan — for  Gai-y,  too,  was  ever-beckoning. 

For,  like  another  Rhythm  Boy  before  him,  Gary 
Crosby  was  born  with  a  beat  in  his  very  bones. 
A  beat  that  wouldn't  be  denied.    Born  to  music 
inside  him  that  wouldn't  stop.   And  he,  too,  was 
destined  eventually  to  get   {Continued  on  page  94) 


Gary  Crosby  sings  on  The  Tennessee  Ernie  Show.  CBS  Radio, 
M-F,  7:05  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Philip  Morris  Cigarettes, 
Campana  Cosmetics,  and  NoDoz.  The  Gary  Crosby  Show  is  heard 
Sundays  over  CBS  Radio  (check  local  papers  for  exact  time). 


Today,  he  sings  with  Tennessee  Ernie  (obove)  and  on  his  own  show  (below,  left,  with  musical  director  Buddy  Bregman). 
Yesterday,  he  was  a  "hiappy  Innna+e"  at  Bellarnnine  Prep  (below,  center — Les  Gargan  in  foreground.  Father  Costa  at  right). 


[>>  ^\? 


At  left,   Patti's  mother  helps  her  dress  for  the  prom 
in   "the   prettiest  formal  yet — all   white   nylon   tulle!" 


Patti  O^Neill,  just  turned  18,  has 
her  own  role  in  The  Secret  Storm 
and  a  big  date  for  the  senior  prom! 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


THIS  IS  the  summer  when  petite  Patti  O'NeUl  faces 
the  most  important  question  in  any  pretty  young 
girl's  life:  Should  she  plan,  next  fall,  to  work,  go 
to  college,  or  marry?  She  was  graduated  from  high 
school  in  Juhe  and  on  July  5  celebrated  that  super- 
important  eighteenth  birthday. 

The  O'Neill  phone  rings  frequently.  The  male  voice 
which  asks,  "Is  Patti  home?"  may  belong  to  a  senior  at 
Yale,  a  sophonaore  at  Pennsylvania,  a  youthful  actor 
in  TV,  the  boy  across  the  street,  or  any  one  of  a  half- 
dozen  nice  young  men-about-Manhattan. 

But  because  it  may  also  belong  to  a  big-name  mag- 
azine photographer,  a  fashion  coordinator  or  a  televi- 
sion producer,  the  classic  problem  is  intensified  in 
Patti's  case.  Daydreams  of  future  romance  must  com- 
pete with  the  excitement  of  a  present  career.  She  is 
Debbie  Ness  on  the  CBS-TV  serial,  The  Secret  Storm, 
and  has  had  parts  on  big  dramatic  programs.  In  Mr. 
Peepers,  she  was  one  of  the  pupils,  "tintil  I  outgrew 
it."  She  also  has  appeared  in  one  Broadway  play, 
"Anniversary  Waltz,"  playing  with  Macdonald  Carey. 


38 


r 


u 


X 


^ 


/ 


Above,  Patti  gives  a  fashion  preview  for  her  parents, 
John  and   Poula  O'Neill,  lust  before  her  date  arrives. 


Directors  seek  Patti  when  they  need  a  pint-sized 
girl  with  a  perfect  figure.  She  is  five  feet,  two  inches 
tall,  weighs  one  hiondred  pounds,  wears  a  size  five  or 
seven,  junior.  Her  brown  hair  has  auburn  highlights, 
her  dark  eyes  are  expressive,  and  her  warm,  creamy 
skin  needs  little  make-up. 

Loving  every  moment  of  the  studio  excitement, 
Patti  has  almost  ruled  out  college.  "It  woxild  be  nice 
to  go  away  to  school,"  she  confides.  "Living  on  campus 
sounds  Uke  so  much  i^xn..  But  I  really  don't  like  to 
study — and  I  hate  to  think  of  starting  work  all  over 
again,  four  years  from  now.  I'm  just  going  to  take  a 
few  general  classes  at  Columbia." 

The  boy  friends  add  to  her  hking  of  the  status  quo. 
"They're  all  wonderful,"  she  says.  "And  all  equally 
important.  Today,  I  mean.  That  may  change  tomor- 
row." 

She  did  go  steady  for  a  while.  "But  then  I  went 
out  on  the  road  with  'Anniversary  Waltz' — and  I 
really  don't  think  it  is  practical  to  go  steady  when 
you're   in   different   towns,   do   you?"   Then   candor 


And  here  he  is — with  on  orchid  corsage  for  Patti  in 
that  box — Eddie  Benjamin,  from  the  U.  of  Pennsylvania. 


Meet  the  folks!    Patti  introduces  Eddie  to  her  parents 
— then  it's  off  to  the  prom,  for  one  enchonted  evening. 


See  Next  Page 


39 


Patti  O'Neill,  just  turned  18,  has 
her  own  role  in  The  Secret  Storm 
and  a  big  date  for  the  senior  prom! 
By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


38 


At  left,   Patti's  mother  helps  her  dress  for  the   prom 
in    "the   prettiest  formal   yet — all   white    nylon   tulle!" 


THIS  IS  the  summer  when  petite  Patti  O'Neill  faces 
the  most  important  question  in  any  pretty  young 
girl's  life:  Should  she  plan,  next  fall,  to  work,  go 
to  college,  or  marry?  She  was  graduated  from  high 
school  in  June  and  on  July  5  celebrated  that  super- 
important  eighteenth  birthday. 

The  O'Neill  phone  rings  frequently.  The  male  voice 
which  asks,  "Is  Patti  home?"  may  belong  to  a  senior  at 
Yale,  a  sophomore  at  Pennsylvania,  a  youthful  actor 
in  TV,  the  boy  across  the  street,  or  any  one  of  a  half- 
dozen  nice  young  men-about-Manhattan. 

But  because  it  may  also  belong  to  a  big-name  mag- 
azme  photographer,  a  fashion  coordinator  or  a  televi- 
sion producer,  the  classic  problem  is  intensified  in 
Patti's  case.  Daydreams  of  future  romance  must  com- 
pete with  the  excitement  of  a  present  career.  She  is 
Debbie  Ness  on  the  CBS-TV  serial,  The  Secret  Storm, 
and  has  had  parts  on  big  dramatic  programs.  In  Mr. 
Peepers,  she  was  one  of  the  pupUs,  "until  I  outgrew 
It.  She  also  has  appeared  in  one  Broadway  plaV' 
Anniversary  Waltz,"  playing  with  Macdonald  Carey. 


Above,  Patti  gives  a  fashion  preview  for  her  parents, 
John  and  Paula  O'Neill,  just  before  her  date  arrives. 


Directors  seek  Patti  when  they  need  a  pint-sized 
girl  with  a  perfect  figure.  She  is  five  feet,  two  inches 
tall,  weighs  one  hundred  pounds,  wears  a  size  five  or 
seven,  junior.  Her  brown  hair  has  auburn  highlights, 
ner  dark  eyes  are  expressive,  and  her  warm,  creamy 
skin  needs  little  make-up. 

Loving  every  moment  of  the  studio  excitement, 
Patti  has  almost  ruled  out  college.  "It  would  be  nice 
to  go  away  to  school,"  she  confides.  "Living  on  campus 
sounds  like  so  much  fun.  But  I  really  don't  like  to 
study— and  I  hate  to  think  of  starting  work  all  over 
again,  four  years  from  now.  I'm  just  going  to  take  a 
few  general  classes  at  Columbia." 
.,  '^^^_'^°y  friends  add  to  her  liking  of  the  status  quo. 
They're  all  wonderful,"  she  says.  "And  all  equally 
important.  Today,  I  mean.  That  may  change  tomor- 
row." 

She  did  go  steady  for  a  while.  "But  then  I  went 
out  on  the  road  with  'Anniversary  Waltz'— and  I 
really  don't  think  it  is  practical  to  go  steady  when 
you're   in   different  towns,   do   you?"  Then  candor 


And  here  he   is— with  an  orchid  corsage  for  Patti  in 
that  box— Eddie  Benjamin,  from  the  U.  of  Pennsylvania. 


Meet  the  folks!    Patti  introduces  Eddie  to  her  parents 
— then  it's  off  to  the  prom,  for  one  enchanted  evening. 


See  Next  Page 


39 


(Continued) 


Patti  will  always  treasure  these  moments: 
Their  arrival  at  the  Delmonico,  the  dances 
with  Eddie  and  her  classmates  at  the  Pro- 
fessional    Children's     School     senior     prom. 


Back  to  work:  Photographer  Jerry  Urgo  and  producer  Dick  Dunn 


overcomes  her.  "Besides,  I  was  meeting  so  many  interest- 
ing people  and  being  invited  to  go  so  many  places.  I 
didn't  want  to  miss  that.   I  had  such  a  happy  time." 

Happiness,  perhaps,  is  that  extra  and  distinctive  quality 
which  Patti  has  to  offer  audiences.  It  carries  through  in 
the  sparkle  of  her  eyes,  the  lilt  of  her  voice,  the  quick 
grace  of  her  movements. 

Happiness,  one  also  gathei-s  during  a  visit  to  the  O'Neill 
home,  is  a  family  habit.  Their  sense  of  humor  keeps  life 
in  good  balance.  Patti's  father,  John  O'Neill— a  hearty 
Irishman,  quick  with  a  joke  or  a  story — has  worked 
twenty-six  years  for  one  of  the  major  milk  companies. 
Her  mother,  Paula,  who  has  virtually  been  a  partner  in 
Patti's  career,  is  endowed  with  a  rare  combination  of 
gentleness,  wit  and  good  sense.  Originally,  there  were 
five  O'Neills,  but  Gloria  and  Vivian,  the  older  daughters, 
have  now  married  and  left  home. 

Mrs.  O'Neill  has  a  vivid  and  quick  characterization  of 
their  life  together:  "We  have  a  hard  time  getting  away 
from  the  dinner  table  before  nine  o'clock.  We  like  to  sit 
around  talking  to  each  other." 


'9 


\/' 


-jinmv 


watch   Patti  (center)  playing   Debbie  in   The  Secret  Storm,  with  Warren   Berllnger  (left),   Peter  Hobbs  and   Haila   Stoddard. 


Their  home  is  a  comfortable  two-story  brick  house  in 
Queens,  one  of  New  York's  least-crowded  and  most 
pleasant  boroughs.  Patti — who  describes  her  father  as 
"the  original  do-it-yourselfer" — proudly  shows  off  the 
basement  playroom  which  he  tiled  and  the  bathroom  he 
rebuilt  and  decorated  in  a  most  luxurious  fashion. 

Together,  the  family  has  given  Patti  a  heritage  of  secur- 
ity— the  security  which  comes,  not  from  wealth,  but  from 
love  and  peace  of  mind.  Her  earnings  have  never  in- 
fluenced their  standard  of  living.  She  has  never  been 
under  pressure.  She  has  been  free  to  grow  and  advance 
naturally.  Says  Mrs.  O'Neill,  "We  have  never  put  her 
on  a  pedestal.  She  does  her  share  of  the  household  chores. 
We're  all  members  of  this  family." 

None  of  them  had  any  previous  connection  with  show 
business.  "It  happened  almost  by  accident,"  says  Mrs. 
O'Neill.  "Sometimes  things  just  seem  to  be  mapped  out 
for  you."  (Continued  on  page  77) 

Patti  O'Neill  is  Debbie  in  The  Secret  Storm,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:15  P.M. 
EDT,  a.=  sponsored  by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  and  Boyle-Midway. 


It  was  Jerry   Urge   who   "discovered"    Patti 
for  the  cameras — and  is  he  proud  of  her  now! 


m 


I^MM-C      (Continued) 


Patti  will  always  treasure  these  moments: 
Their  orrival  at  the  Delmonico,  the  dances 
with  Eddie  and  her  classmates  at  the  Pro- 
tessionol     Children's     School     senior     prom. 


Back  to  worit:  Photographer  Jerry  Urgo  and  producer  Dick 


overcomes  her.  "Besides,  I  was  meeting  so  many  interest- 
ing people  and  being  invited  to  go  so  many  places.  I 
didn't  want  to  miss  that.  I  had  such  a  happy  time." 

Happiness,  perhaps,  is  that  extra  and  distinctive  quality 
which  Patti  has  to  offer  audiences.  It  carries  through  in 
the  sparkle  of  her  eyes,  the  lilt  of  her  voice,  the  quick 
grace  of  her  movements. 

Happiness,  one  also  gathers  during  a  visit  to  the  O'Neill 
home,  is  a  family  habit.  Their  sense  of  humor  keeps  life 
in  good  balance.  Patti's  father,  John  O'Neill— a  hearty 
Irishman,  quick  with  a  joke  or  a  story — has  worked 
twenty-six  years  for  one  of  the  major  milk  companies. 
Her  mother,  Paula,  who  has  virtually  been  a  partner  in 
Patti's  career,  is  endowed  with  a  rare  combination  of 
gentleness,  wit  and  good  sense.  Originally,  there  were 
five  O'NeiUs,  but  Gloria  and  Vivian,  the  older  daughters, 
have  now  married  and  left  home. 

Mrs.  O'Neill  has  a  vivid  and  quick  characterization  of 
their  life  together:  "We  have  a  hard  time  getting  away 
from  the  dinner  table  before  nine  o'clock.  We  like  to  sit 
around  talking  to  each  other  " 


watch  Patti  (center)  playing  Debbie  in  The  Secret  Storm,  with  Warren  Berlinger  (left),   Peter  Hobbs  and  Haila  Stoddard. 


Their  home  is  a  comfortable  two-story  brick  house  in 
Queens,  one  of  New  York's  least-crowded  and  most 
pleasant  boroughs.  Patti — who  describes  her  father  as 
'  the  original  do-it-yourselfer" — proudly  shows  ofl  the 
basement  playroom  which  he  tiled  and  the  bathroom  he 
rebuilt  and  decorated  in  a  most  luxurious  fashion. 

Together,  the  family  has  given  Patti  a  heritage  of  secur- 
ity— the  security  which  comes,  not  from  wealth,  but  from 
love  and  peace  of  mind.  Her  earnings  have  never  in- 
fluenced their  standard  of  living.  She  has  never  been 
under  pressure.  She  has  been  free  to  grow  and  advance 
naturally.  Says  Mrs.  O'Neill,  "We  have  never  put  her 
on  a  pedestal.  She  does  her  share  of  the  household  chores. 
We're  all  members  of  this  family." 

None  of  them  had  any  previous  connection  with  show 
business.  "It  happened  almost  by  accident,"  says  Mrs. 
O'Neill.  "Sometimes  things  just  seem  to  be  mapperl  out 
for  you."  (Continued  on  page  77) 

Patti  O'Neill  is  Debbie  in  The  Secret  Storm,  CB.S-TV,  M-F,  4:15  P.M. 
EOT,  as  sponsored  bv  Whiteliall  Pbarmacal  Co.  and  Boyle-Midway. 


It  was  Jerry  Urgo  who   "discovered"   Patti 
for  the  cameras— and  is  he  proud  of  her  now! 


^A/ITH   A 


TV's  Welcome  Travelers  is  welcome 

news,  both  to  its  singing  host 

and  to  Jack  Smith's  many  loyal  fans 

By  ED  MEYERSON 

SOONER  OR  LATER,  every  American  in  Paris 
visits  the  Eiffel  Tower.    Here,  he  can 
not  only  see  the  French  capital  from 
the  air,  he  can  see  all  the  other  Americans 
in  Paris,  as  well.    So  it  was  not  surprising, 
when  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jack  Smith  entered 
a  restaurant  in  the  Tower,  that  friends  from 
"back  home"  recognized  them.    "Hey, 
Smitty!"  someone  called,  and  soon  there  was 
a  happy  reunion  in  the  middle  of  the 
restaurant.  That's  how  the  diners  happened 
to  notice  that  there  was  a  celebrity  in 
their  midst.    Back  (Continued  on  page  70) 


Jack  Smith  is  host  of  Welcome  Travelers,  on  CBS-TV, 
MF,  1:30  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  the  Procter  & 
Gamble  Co.  for  Camay,  Ivory  Snow,  Oxydol  and  Draft. 


Hostess     Pat     Meikle     helps     Jack     "welcome 
travelers"   to   a    fun-filled,    prize-pocked    show. 


SMILE   IN   HIS   VOICE 


Jack  met  his  "VIckii"  because  they'd  been  born  on  the  sanne 
day — and  friends  later  gave  one  party  for  both  of  thenn. 
They  wed   on   the    birthday   when    both    became    eighteen 


Vickii   has   been   by  Jack's   side   throughout   his   early   cross-country   tours  to  the  triumph   of  that  first  show  of  his   own 
and  the  purchase  of  their  first  real  home — where  "Buff"   (above,  left)  has  become  very  much  a  part  of  the  Smith  family. 


43 


An  anxious  vigil  in  the 
hospital  teaches  Julie  Palmer 
a  new  lesson  in  courage 
as  a  child  fights  for  its  life 


DRIVING  HOME  from  the  hospital  with 
her  husband,  Dr.  Dan  Palmer,  Julie's 
thoughts  focused  on  the  nightmare 
of  events  just  passed.  It  had  started  at 
Tw^in  Oaks — the  home  for  cardiac  children 
— where  the  roof  had  collapsed,  critically 
injuring  little  Patsy  Lewis.  Again,  Julie 
felt  the  dread  of  the  anxious  hours  which 
followed.  Patsy  was  taken  to  the  hospital, 
where  Dan  had  assisted  a  noted  brain 
surgeon  in  the  fight  for  the  child's  life.  .  .  . 
Julie  could  not  help  feeling  responsible 
for  Patsy  and  the  tragedy  at  Twin  Oaks, 
which  she  herself  had  worked  so  hard  to 
help  establish.  For  she  realized,  with 
horror,  that  Peter  CoUette — the  builder 
she  had  recommended — had  not  followed 
the  specifications  demanded.  .  .  .  Julie  had 
felt  another  pang  of  guilt  at  the  hospital 
when  Dr.  Fred  Conrad,  Dan's  assistant, 
tried  to  reassure  her  about  Patsy.  Fred 
was  so  deeply,  unhappily  in  love  with 
Julie^ — and  for  this,  too,  Julie  felt  respon- 
sible. .  .  .  Th,e  hours  of  waiting  had  preyed 
upon  Julie  and  she  had  felt  her  usual 
confidence  slipping  away.  Russell  Swayne, 
head  of  Twin  Oaks'  board  of  directors,  had 
resigned,  placing  the  blame  for  the  acci- 
dent squarely  on  Julie  and  Dan.  This 
meant  that  the  Carver  Foundation  would 


probably  withdraw  its  financial  support, 
forcing  Twin  Oaks  to  close.  Although 
many  dear  friends  had  remained  loyal  to 
Twin  Oaks,  Julie  could  not  stifle  her  dis- 
appointment and  apprehension  about  all 
the  others  who  had  withdrawn  their  help. 
.  .  .  The  fears  of  the  future,  however,  had 
been  washed  away  when  Dan  emerged 
from  the  operating  room  to  tell  Julie,  "The 
operation  was  a  success.  Patsy's  a  fighter 
and  she's  fighting  hard  for  her  own  life. 
It's  a  lonely  battle,  but  I  think  she'll  win." 
When  Julie  looked  puzzled,  Dan  ex- 
plained: "Yoxing  or  old,  small  or  large, 
there  are  times  when  we  have  to  fight 
alone,  Julie.".  .  .  Now,  driving  home  to  her 
own  Timmy,  those  words  echoed  in  Julie's 
mind.  She  realized  that,  while  brave  little 
Patsy  was  fighting  for  her  life,  she — 
grown-up  Julie  Palmer — had  been  ready 
to  give  up,  had  almost  lost  the  courage 
to  fight  for  the  life  of  Twin  Oaks.  A  light 
came  into  Julie's  eyes  as  she  vowed:  "To- 
morrow, I  will  go  to  the  Carver  Founda- 
tion and  beg  them  to  continue  their  sup- 
port of  Twin  Oaks.  As  surely  as  Patsy 
will  live,  I  will  convince  them.  I  know  I 
will."  Moving  closer  to  Dan,  Julie  felt  more 
than  ever,  the  wisdom  of  his  words:  There 
are  times  when  we  have  to  fight  alone. 


The  Doctor's  Wife,  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  10:30  A.M.  EDT,  stars  Patricia  Wheel  and  John  Baragrey   (see 
facing  page)    in   the  roles  of  Julie  and   Dan    Palmer,  with  Donald  Buka  (standing)   as  Fred  Conrad. 


At  home  with  young  Timmy,  her  husband 
Dan,  and  Fred  Conrad,  Julie  Palnner  knows 
that,  somehow.  Twin  Oaks  must  be  saved. 


44 


;f4 


■  ■■■■III  iiiiiii  mill   1        HIM 

IB     1      1                                  llllilllll 

"'     "" 

wp^m 

mmm 

\ 


^   i^':ii 


The  Colmaiis  of  IVY 


Ronald  and  Benita  are  very  like 
Toddy  and  Vicky  Hall — except  that 
they  have  a  child  all  their  own 

By  BUD  GOODE 

As  EVERY  TV  WATCHER  can  See,  The  Halls  of  Ivy — ^better 
known  as  "Toddy"  and  "Vicky"  HaU  to  both 
Ivy  College  and  their  nationwide  audience — ^are  quite 
extraordinary  people.  Dr.  William  Todhunter  Hall  is  the 
only  coUege  president  currently  starring  in  a  popular 
situation-comedy  series.  Victoria  Hall  is  the  only  college 
president's  vdf  e  who  was  once  a  reigning  beUe  of  the 
British  theater.  And,  aside  from  these  distinctions, 
the  Halls  are  also  extraordinarily  wise,  extraordinarily 
witty,  and  extremely  charming  people  to  know. 

This  state  of  affairs  is  no  surprise  to  anyone  who's  ever 
met  the  Colmans  of  Hollywood — ^Ronald  and  Benita  Hume 
Colman,  who  play  the  Halls  of  Ivy.    The  Colmans  are  also 
wise,  witty  and  very,  very  charming.  And  nothing 
about  them  is  ordinary.  The  way  Ronnie  and  Benita  live, 
work  and  play — ^their  every  attitude — ^is  marked  by 
a  certain  "uniqueness"  which  is  the  key  to  their 
combined  personalities.  {Continued  on  page  69) 


The  Halls  Of  Ivy — Toddy  and  Vicky — have 
only  their  students  as  "children"  on  TV.  But 
the  Colmans  of  Hollywood — Ronnie  and  Be- 
nita— have  a  ten-year-old  daughter,  Juliet! 


Toddy  and  Vicky  at  Ivy  College  (above,  left)  have  nnuch  in 
common  with  Ronnie  and  Benita  in  real  life  (above,  right). 
At  far  left,  Benita  chooses  the  clothes  for  Vicky  to  wear. 


The  Colmans  star  in  The  Halls  Of  Ivy,  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Tues.,  8:30  P.M.  EDT, 
sponsored  alternately  by  the  Interniational  Harvester  Co.  and  National  Biscuit  Co. 


ITN 


-  ^ 


^mmfSeJt 


Left:  That  was  quite    » 


That's  why  Paul  Dixon  came  back  to  Ohio,  to  the 

wonderful  town  Marge  and  Pam  and  Greg  always  call  "home" 


48 


""""^'^  •~!mis .1 


^      iissiiyy' 


3use  they  had  in  the  East,  but  Pom  kept  asking  when  they  were  "going  home."  So  they  piled  into  the  cor — and  bock  they  went. 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


IN  BROADCASTING,  the  road  to  fame  and  fortune 
inevitably  runs  from  west  to  east — or  to  the 
far,  far  west.  The  ambitious  head  for  New 
York  or  Hollywood.  And,  when  a  performer 
at  the  peak  of  popularity  reverses  the  direction 
and  leaves  the  show-business  capitals,  it  is 
"man-bites-dog"  kind  of  news. 

Yet  Paul  Dixon  was  doing  it.  Within  six 
months  of  his  New  York  welcome,  and  in  spite 
of  an  impressive  competitive  rating,  he  was 
leaving  the  network.  He  announced  he  would 
return  to  Cincinnati  and  transfer  his  show  to 
the  three-station  Crosley  hookup  in  Ohio. 

Why?  Paul  had  a  three-word  answer:  "Marge, 
Pam,  Greg." 

With  the  contented  look  of  a  man  who  has 
settled  a  major  problem  and  is  pleased  with  his 
decision,  Paul  leaned  back  in  his  chair  and 
contemplated  surroimdings  which  were 
virtually  a  symbol  of  what  he  was  giving  up. 

We  were  liinching  in  a  fashionable  restaurant 
in  New  York's  swank  East  Sixties.  The  carpets 
were  deep,  the  draperies  rich,  the  view  of  an 
expensively   spacious   terrace   was   charming. 
The  waiters  were  quietly  attentive  and  you  covild 
get  a  good  beef  stew — ^if  you  were  sufficiently 
bilingual  to  order  it  in  French. 

Yet  the  opulence  was  (Continued  on  page  79) 

The  Paul  Dixon  Show  is  now  seen  over  the  Crosley  Broad- 
casting Corp.  Stations,  WLW-T  (Cincinnati),  WLW-D 
(Dayton),  WLW-C  (Columbus)— M-F,  3  to  4  P.M.  EDT. 


Pocking  and  unpacking  seenned  like  endless  chores  tb  Paul  and 
Marge,  Pam  and  Greg.  But,  this  spring,  it  meant  good  news — 
for  the  Dixons  themselves  and  for  all  their  friends  in  the  Midwest. 


49 


rw«*«^^^ 


48 


^/m^^€^^ 


I 


Left:  That  was  quite  o 


That's  why  Paul  Dixon  came  back  to  Ohio,  to  the 

wonderful  town  Marge  and  Pam  and  Greg  always  call  "home" 


48 


house  they  had  in  the  East,  but  Pam  kept  asking  when  they  were  "going  home."  So  they  piled  into  the  cai 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


IN  BROADCASTING,  the  Toad  to  fame  and  fortune 
inevitably  runs  from  west  to  east — or  to  the 
far,  far  west.  The  ambitious  head  for  New 
York  or  Hollywood.  And,  when  a  performer 
at  the  peak  of  popularity  reverses  the  direction 
and  leaves  the  show-business  capitals,  it  is 
"man-bites-dog"  kind  of  news. 

Yet  Paul  Dixon  was  doing  it.  Within  six 
months  of  his  New  York  welcome,  and  in  spite 
of  an  impressive  competitive  rating,  he  was 
leaving  the  network.  He  announced  he  would 
return  to  Cincinnati  and  transfer  his  show  to 
the  three-station  Crosley  hookup  in  Ohio. 

Why?  Paul  had  a  three-word  answer:  "Marge, 
Pam,  Greg." 

With  the  contented  look  of  a  man  who  has 
settled  a  major  problem  and  is  pleased  with  his 
decision,  Paul  leaned  back  in  his  chair  and 
contemplated  surroundings  which  were 
virtually  a  symbol  of  what  he  was  giving  up. 

We  were  lunching  in  a  fashionable  restaiurant 
in  New  York's  swank  East  Sixties.  The  carpets 
were  deep,  the  draperies  rich,  the  view  of  an 
expensively   spacious   terrace   was   charming. 
The  waiters  were  quietly  attentive  and  you  could 
get  a  good  beef  stew — if  you  were  sufficiently 
bilingual  to  order  it  in  French. 

Yet  the  opulence  was  (Continued  on  page  79) 

The  Paul  Dixon  Show  is  now  seen  over  the  Crosley  Broad- 
casting Corp.  Stations,  WLW-T  (Cincinnati),  WLW-D 
(Dayton),  WLW-C  (Columbus)— M-F,  3  to  4  P.M.  EDT. 


Packing  and  unpacking  seemed  like  endless  chores  tb  Poul  and 
Marge,  Pam  and  Greg.  But,  this  spring,  it  meant  good  news— 
for  the  Dixons  themselves  and  tor  all  their  friends  in  the  Midwest. 


49 


^  ^^ 


HER  LIFE  IS  A 


Three  happy  notes  from  Betty's  present  doy:  Left,  Robert  Q. 
Lewis  makes  Betty  on  ofRcial  member  of  the  Lewis  troupe — 
with  o  pair  of  "specs."  Above,  she  looks  at  toys  for  sister 
Rosemary's  son.  Below,  at  home  with  her  ever-helpful  mother. 


Betty  Clooney  finds  her  place  in 

the  sun  on  the  Rohert  Q.  Lewis  shows 

and  it's  all  simply  "wonderful!" 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


There's  always  been  a  special  kind  of  radiance 
about  those  singing  Clooney  sisters,  Rosemary  and 
Betty.  But  there's  a  very  special  kind  of  radiance 
about  Betty  Clooney  these  days,  now  that  she's  singing 
on  Robert  Q.  Lewis's  lively  shows  over  CBS-TV  and 
CBS  Radio.  It  puts  a  light  in  her  big  dark  eyes,  which 
seem  more  a  Latin  heritage  than  a  gift  from  her  Irish 
foi^bears  (but  sure  and  'twas  the  GuUfoyles  on  her 


mother's  side  and  the  Clooneys  on  her  dad's,  and  what 
could  be  more  Ould  Sod  than  these?).  It  puts  a  gleam 
on  the  masses  of  thick,  dark  Kair,  and  on  the  five  feet, 
four  inches  and  110  pounds  packed  with  energy. 

"I'm  happy,"  Betty  says,  as  if  that  should  explain 
everything.  "Happier  than  I  have  ever  been  in  my 
twenty-four  years.  Even  though  I  am  doing  more  than 
I  ever  did  before.  Working   (Continued  on  page  86) 


The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Shows — seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  2  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Helene  Curtis  Industries  (Spray  Net,  Lanolin  Discovery, 
Shampoo  Plus  Egg),  Miles  Laboratories  (Alka-Seltzer),  General  Mills  (0-Cel-O  Sponges,  other  products),  Johnson's  Wax,  Mazola,  Viceroy 
Cigarettes,  and  others — and  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Sat.,  11  A.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Pine-Sol,  Perma-Starch,  S-7,  and  other  products. 


51 


Flora  CampbelTs  proud 
to  portray  such  a  valiant 
woman  as  Helen  Emerson. 
That's  one  of  man/, 
many  reasons  why  Flora  is 


Harmony  is  the  keynote  of  Flora's  own 
home  life.  Her  husband  is  Ben  Cutler,  of 
society-orchestra  fame,  and  both  Tommy, 
14,  and  Creel,  5,  love  music  as  well  as 
outdoor  sports  and  other  family  projects. 


A  VERY  LUCKY  LADY 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 


IF  YOTJ  walk  down  a  certain  elm-shaded 
street  in  a  pleasant  Connecticut  town  on 
a  sxunmer  evening,  your  feet  may  start 
to  shuffle  to  the  sound  of  orchestral  music. 
Following  the  trail  of  melody,  you  might 
find  yourself  in  the  living  room  of  a 
converted  carriage  house — a  house  painted 
bam  red  on  the  outside,  cheery  and  homey 
inside,  with  the  lampUght  highlighting 
a  family  musicale. 

Standing  close  to  the  piano,  where 
fourteen-year-old  Tommy  presides,  will 
be  Flora  Campbell  Cutler,  playing  her 
violin  as  if  she  had  never  deserted  it  for 
an  acting  career  and  starring  role  as 
Helen  Emerson  in  television's  daytime  drama. 
Valiant  Lady.  Ben  Cutler,  a  society- 
orchestra  leader  by  profession,  will  be 
doubling  on  the  sax  and  trombone, 
and   their   five-year-old   daughter   Creel 
blowing  a  miniature  horn — or  forsaking 
it  suddenly  to  do  a  twirl  on  her  toes. 

Creel  will  start  to  hvmi  a  Httle  tune  and 
Ben's  rich  operatic  baritone  will  join  her, 
filling  the  high-vaulted  room,  while  Flo  and 
Tommy  join  in.  The  neighbors  will  confirm 
that  this  is  the  way  the  Cutlers  like 
to  spend  many  an  evening  together.  Even 
Fanny,  the  pet  French  poodle,  is 
always  ready  to  add  a  few  well-pitched 
barks  when  the  family  music  begins. 

Flo,  known  on  TV  by  her  maiden  name 
of  Flora  Campbell,  is  a  slender  five-foot 
six  and  one-half  inches.  Her  eyes  are  blue 
and  kind  and  direct,  her  features  well- 
drawn,  her  burnished  brownish  hair  simply 
arranged,  her  manner  gracious  and 
outgoing.    Ben  is  darker,  a  half-inch  over 
six  feet,  a  handsome,  friendly  man 
who  likes  his  work  and  his  life.    The  kids  are 
blond,  Tonuny  favoring  his  mother  in  looks 
and  Creel  beginning  to  look  more  like  Ben. 
Tom  is  wrapped  up  in  sports  and  the  Boy 
Scouts  at  the  moment,  and  is  learning  to  do 
a  real  rock  'n'  roU  on  the  drtims. 

Creel  thinks  she  might  hke  to  be  an  actress, 
on  television.  She  has  been  watching 
Bonnie  Sawyer,  the  little  girl  who  plays 

Continued      k. 


The   Cutlers   live    in    a    converted    carriage    house,    and 
are  turning  the  back  yard  Into  a  garden  and  playground. 


53 


A  VERY  LUCKY  LADY 


{Continued) 


Ben  and  Flora  ore  never  too  busy  for  fun  and  games 
with  little  Creel  and  not-so-little  tonnmy — who,  in  nnid- 
teens,  is  getting  taller  than  his  handsome,  six-foot  dad! 


Kim  on  ValiantLady,  and  can't  quite  tinderstand  why 
she  can't  be  Kim,  too — although  she  loves  Bonnie 
dearly  and  knows  she  is  only  Flora's  "pretend"  daugh- 
ter on  the  program.  Creel  even  mimics  some  of  Kitn's 
lines,  to  prove  to  her  mother,  when  she  comes  home 
after  a  show,  that  she  herself  is  prepared  to  go  before 
the  cameras  immediately! 

The  Cutlers  are  still  working  on  their  house,  which 
they  moved  into  the  Christmas  before  last.  Their  big 
project  this  summer  is  the  large  back  yard,  which 
forms  a  pretty  panorama  from  the  picture  window  in 
the  living  room.  When  they  moved  in,  this  was  noth- 
ing but  mud  and  weeds,  but  gradually  they  are  turn- 
ing it  into  green  lawn  and  gardens,  with  a  corner 
dedicated  to  batting  tennis  balls  around  and  for  base- 
ball and  football  practice  by  the  men  of  the  family. 
There  is  a  barbecue  for  cook- outs  and  a  terrace  for 
outdoor  eating. 

The  Cutlers  used  to  live  in  an  old  farmhouse  with 
a  small  living  room,  so  this  new,  huge  cathedral- 
roofed  living  room,  once  housing  old  family  carriages, 
is  their  great  pride.  The  fireplace  of  rough  native 
stone  is  in  an  inglenook,  flanked  by  twin  modern 
sofas.  There  is  a  long,  bright  red  couch  in  the  main 
part  of  the  room  and  there  are  many  comfortable 
chairs  and  convenient  lamps,  and  a  harmony  of 
color  which  starts  with  the  soft  yellow-green  of  the 
walls,  is  picked  up  in  the  rich  fabric  of  the  drapes, 
where  it  is  mingled  with  bits  of  red  and  gold  and 
other  flecks  of  color,  and  set  off  by  neutral  shades  in 
the  carpeting. 

The  bedrooms  reflect  the  tastes  of  their  occupants. 
Creel  has  a  dainty,  Hght  blue  room.  Tommy's  is  typical 
of  an  athletic  teen-age  boy,  right  to  the  sports  wall- 
paper and  the  solid-looking  furniture  and  all  the 
pennants  and  paraphernalia  that  a  fellow  needs  when 
he  goes  out  for  most  of  the  teams. 

The  kitchen  is  large  and  bright  and  much-used  in 
this  home -loving  family,  and  the  den  is  comfortable 
and  quietly  inviting.  There  is  a  competent  maid  who 
takes  over,  except  on  the  days  Flo  is  home.  Some- 
times, on  a  Saturday,  Flo  will  let  the  dishes  pile  up 
after  breakfast  and  lunch  so  she  can  take  care  of  some 
of  the  outside  chores  which  come  with  home-owning. 
Ben  will  be  out  working  at  night,  with  one  of  his 
orchestras.  Tommy  off  with  his  friends,  and  Creel  in 
bed,  and  suddenly-  there  wiU  be  all  those  dishes  from 
three  meals — ^waiting  to  be  washed  and  put  away — 
while  there  are  a  couple  of  TV  programs  she  is  simply 
dying  to  see.  "It's  my  own  fault,  when  that  happens," 
she  sighs.  "Later  on,  I  can  watch.  Or  read.  I  love  to 
read,  and  do  as  much  of  it  as  I  can." 

The  family  has  to  do  without  Daddy  frequently 
on  weekends  when  his  orchestras  (sometimes  as  many 
as  ten  at  a  time  with  from  three  to  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  musicians)  are  much  in  demand.  That's  when  Flo 
spends  as  much  time  as  possible  with  the  children  and 
catches  up  on  all  the  home  (Continued  on  page  84) 


Flora  Campbell  is  Helen  Emerson  in  Valiant  Lady,  CBS-TV, 
M-F,   12   noon    EDT,   for   General   Mills   and   The   Toni    Co. 


U-IMII  iQi 


It's  o  musical,  multi-instrument  family — and  even  Creel  toots  a  mean  horn,  though  her  specialty  is  dancing. 


55 


Steve  Allen  presents  two  stellar  singers  on  Tonight — Eydie  Gorme  and  Steve  Lawrence. 

JLoung  Eydie  Gorme  s  having  a  hall  as  Tonight's  Cinderella, 

but  where  is  tomorrow's  Prince  Charming? 


56 


Js3«**i3>(,*M' 


Papa    Gorme    relaxes   happily,    as 
Eydie  rehearses  a   song  at  home. 


Eydie    catches    up   on    fan    mail, 
while    listening    to    a    recording. 


Mama    Gorme    pours    coffee    for 
Ken  Greengrass  (back  to  camera). 


Sorry,  no  date — Eydie  has  an  out- 
of-town     booking     this     weekend. 


Quick   goodbye   kiss   from    Mama, 
then   Eydie  dashes  for  her  plane. 


Ken — Eydie  s    manager — helps    to 
carry  her  luggage  to  the  airport. 


Bv  PHILIP  CHAPMAN 


Tonight's  singing  star,  Eydie  Goi-me,  is  more  than  a 
young,  dark-haired  girl  with  a  smile  and  a  singing 
voice  that  have  a  peculiar  charm  all  their  own.  She's 
a  shining  example  of  today's  TV  business  and  its  frantic 
pace — a  lovely,  warm,  human  girl  who  would  like  a  hus- 
band, children,  a  home  of  her  own — and  who  just  doesn't 
have  time  to  fall  in  love,  now  that  her  talents  are  finding 
nationwide  recognition. 

It  was  about  a  year  ago  that  Eydie  did  a  song  for  Coral 
Records  called  'Trenesi."    Up  iintil  that  time,   she  had 


been  a  hard-working,  fairly  successful  singer  with  popular 
bands  such  as  Tex  Beneke's,  and  she'd  been  doing  a  lot 
of  night-club  dates  in  New  York  and  around  the  country. 
What  Eydie  Gorme  had,  she'd  fought  for,  as  all  aspiring 
young  performers  must  fight.  And  then  the  great,  un- 
expected break  that  such  hopefuls  pray  for — and  secretly 
wonder  if  they  will  ever  get — came  to  Eydie. 

Steve  Allen  walked  into  the  offices  of  Coral  Records 
one  afternoon  and,  after  a  couple  of  hours  there,  realized 
that  from  somewhere  among  the  (Continued  on  page  91) 


Eydie  Gorme  sing?  on  Tonight,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  11:30  P.M.  EDT,   11   P.M.  CDT,  under  participating  sponsorship,  and    The  Steve 
Allen   Show,  as  seen   over  Station   WRCA-TV    (New  York).  M-F,   11:15   P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Knickerbocker   Beer. 


57 


THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE 


Jim  and  Jocelyn  Brent  pray  that  their  love 
can  bridge  the  forces  working  to  separate  them 


TIME  and  distance,  as  scientists  have  proved,  are 
relative.  And  from  Merrimac  to  the  island  of 
Jamaica  is  only  eight  hours  by  air.  Jocelyn  Brent, 
in  her  new  job  with  a  Caribbean  airline,  watches  the 
planes  wing  in  and  out,  knowing  that  in  just  a  few 
short  hours  they  will  land  in  the  United  States.  .  .  . 
These  planes  are  barred  to  Jocelyn,  who  was  deported 
because  of  an  oversight  in  her  papers  when  she  first 
arrived  in  the  United  States — and  because  of  a  tech- 
nical conviction  for  kidnaping  after  an  innocent  after- 
noon's outing  with  Sibyl  Overton  Fuller's  child.  The 
time  and  distance  between  Jocelyn  and  her  home  in 
Merrimac,  her  husband,  Dr.  Jim  Brent,  and  her  step- 
daughter, Janie,  seem  like  a  void  that  grows  wider 
and  wider  with  each  passing  day.  ...  At  first,  when 
Sibyl  had  instigated  the  deportation  proceedings 
against  her,  Jocelyn  and  Jim  had  thought  Sibyl  could 
be  tricked  into  betraying  her  part  in  the  hoax  which 
had  led  to  Jocelyn's  kidnaping  conviction.  Sibyl's  mo- 
tives were  clear:  She  hoped  to  separate  Jim  and  Joc- 
elyn and  to  win  Jim  for  herself.  ...  In  order  to  un- 
mask Sibyl,  Jim  had  begun  to  pay  her  the  attentions 
she  had  long  coveted.  Jocelyn  in  turn  had  encouraged 
Armand  Monet's  strong  attraction  to  her,  believing 
that  he  knew  Sibyl's  secret  and  could  help  prevent 
the  deportation.  Yet,  both  Jim's  and  Jocelyn's  efforts 
had  come  to  nothing.  .  .  .  Several  incidents  had 
prompted  Jim  and  Jocelyn  to  suspect  that  Jim's  con- 
tinued presence  in  Merrimac — and  his  continued  at- 
tentions to  Sibyl — might  soon  reveal  her  secret.  There- 
fore, Jocelyn  had  urged  Jim  to  stick  with  his  promis- 
ing medical  career  while  she  took  up  what  she  hopes 
will  be  temporary  residence  in  Jamaica.  .  .  .  Yet 
Jocelyn  knows  that  Sibyl — whose  desire  for  Jim 
amounts  to  an  obsession — is  nevertheless  an  attractive, 
strong-willed  woman.  Jocelyn  cannot  help  but  feel 
the  danger  to  her  marriage  increases  in  the  time  Jim 
and  Sibyl  spend  together.  ...  In  their  separation, 
Jocelyn  has  kept  her  first  important  secret  from  Jim. 
She  is  to  bear  him  a  child,  but  has  said  nothing — will 
say  nothing — until  it  is  certain  that  they  are  to  be 
together  again.  .  .  .  Meanwhile,  Jocelyn  yearns  for  her 
family  back  in  Merrimac  and  is  forced  to  face  the 
knowledge  that,  in  her  absence,  Aunt  Reggie  is  work- 


ing to  usurp  her  place  in  the  lives  of  Janie  and  Jim.  .  .  . 
Well-meaning  but  lonely.  Aunt  Reggie  has  nobody  of 
her  own  whose  life  she  can  regtilate  and  dominate. 
Yet  she  has  very  definite  ideas  as  to  what  is  best  for 
other  people.  Now  she  has  determined  that  it  would 
be  "all  for  the  best"  for  Janie  to  forget  Jocelyn  and 
accept  herself  as  a  substitute  mother.  .  .  .  Jim  Brent 
is  brought  face-to-face  with  this  problem  when  he 
comes  upon  Aunt  Reggie  as  she  is  about  to  remove 
Jocelyn's  picture  from  its  place  in  their  home.  Aunt 
Reggie  protests  that  it  is  wrong  for  the  child  to  be 
constantly  reminded  of  the  mother  who  is  so  far  away. 
.  .  .  Even  as  Jim  pleads  with  her  not  to  tamper  with 
the  love  that  Janie  bears  for  Jocelyn,  he  must  realize 
that  Aunt  Reggie's  influence  is  subtle  and  insistent. 
Amid  the  pain  of  his  separation  from  Jocelyn  and  the 
maddening  demands  made  upon  him  by  Sibyl,  Jim 
must  also  find  a  way  to  keep  Aunt  Reggie  from  in- 
sinuating herself  in  the  place  which  rightfully  belongs 
to  Jocelyn.  .  .  .  Jim  knows  Sibyl  is  "sick,"  that  her 
mind  may  even  one  day  become  unbalanced.  She  has 
lied  to  herself  for  so  long  about  the  possibility  of  a 
marriage  between  herself  and  Jim  that  now  Sibyl  can 
only  preserve  her  sanity  by  persisting  in  these  lies. 
Each  day,  her  demands  on  Jim  grow,  as  she  convinces 
herself  that  now  Jim  will  divorce  Jocelyn.  Sibyl  half- 
longs,  half -fears  to  force  the  issue,  to  propel  Jim  into 
declaring  that  he  shares  her  love,  and  into  setting  an 
actual  date  for  a '  divorce.  ...  At  the  same  time,  in 
Jamaica,  Jocelyn  sees  the  tragic  consequences  of  her 
friendship  with  Armand  Monet.  Restless  and  un- 
happy, Armand  had  fallen  in  love  with  Jocelyn  dur- 
ing the  days  when  she  had  accepted  his  admiration  in 
the  hope  that  he  might  help  prevent  her  deportation. 
Now  Armand  impulsively  walks  out  on  a  three- 
million-dollar  musical  because  it  seems  that  filming 
delays  might  keep  him  from  seeing  Jocelyn  for  many 
months.  Despite  the  protests  of  Mooch,  a  hanger-on 
who  practically  lives  off  Armand,  and  despite  the 
phone  calls  and  letters  in  which  Jocelyn  insists  she 
doesn't  love  him,  Armand  flies  to  Jamaica.  Feeling 
responsible  for  Armand's  unhappiness  and  for  the  sac- 
rifice of  his  career,  Jocelyn  cannot  simply  refuse  to 
see  him.  Instead,  she  continues  to  insist  that  she  does 


58 


I.  When  Jim  finds  Aunt  Reggie  about  to  hide  Jocelyn's  picture,  she  protests  that  young  Janie  and 
Jim  are  unhappily  renninded  of  the  absence  of  Jocelyn,  who  has  been  deported  to  Jamaica. 
Yet  Jim  cannot  help  but  realize  how  far  Aunt  Reggie  will  go  to  replace  Jocelyn  In  young  Janle's  life. 


See  Next  Page- 


59 


THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE 

( Continued ) 


2.  Despite  Mooch's  pleadings,  and  Jocelyn's  letters  say- 
ing that  she  does  not  return  his  love,  Armand  Monet 
forsakes    his    career    to    follow    Jocelyn    to    Jamaica. 


not  love  him.  and  makes  every  effort  to  turn  his  love 
toward  his  estranged  wife,  Lil.  .  .  .  Meanwhile,  Jim 
flies  to  Jamaica,  too,  having  learned  about  the  baby 
Jocelyn  expects.  But,  when  he  asks  why  Jocelyn  had 
kept  this  a  secret  from  him,  she  cannot  explain  the 
fears  which  made  her  want  to  wait  until  they  were 
once  again  together — in  Merrimac.   .  .   .  As  she  and 


Pictured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Dr.  Jim   Brent Don   MacLaughlin 

Jocelyn   Brent Virginia   Dwyer 

Sibyl  Overton  Fuller Barbara   Becker 

Aunt   Reggie Dorothy   Sands 

Armand  Monet Michael  Kane 

Mooch Frank    Behrens 

The  Road  Of  Life,  CBS  Radio,  1  P.M.  EOT,  CBS-TV,  1:15  P.M., 
M-F,  for  Ivory  Soap,  Spic  'n  Span,  Crisco,  Drene,  Ivory  Flakes. 


3.  Sibyl  has  deceived  herself  about  Jim  for  so  long  that 
now,  as  she  tries  to  get  him  to  say  that  he  loves  her  and 
will   divorce  Jocelyn,   she   half-fears  forcing   the   issue. 


Jim  share  a  few  precious  hours  on  this  exotic  Carib- 
bean isFand,  Jocelyn  wonders  when  that  day  will  come 
— whether  it  will  ever  come.  Jim  stifles  her  doubts  but 
he,  too,  wonders  how  long  their  separation  will  drag 
on.  He  also  wonders  about  the  problems  that  will  still 
exist  when  Jocelyn  returns — the  continued  schemings 
of  Sibyl;  Aunt  Reggie's  growing  influence  on  young 
Janie's  life;  and  even  the  difficulties  that  come 
hand-in-hand  with  the  rewarding  joys  of  Jocelyn's 
pregnancy.  As  Jim  returns  to  Merrimac  and  Jocelyn 
stays  behind,  both  wonder  how  far  each  must  travel 
before  the  road   of  life  brings  them   together  again. 


60 


X»*%v^AIk'  ♦  J.SSd:  1-' 


4.  When  Jim  learns  at  last  that  Jocelyn  is  to  bear  him  a  child,  he  flies  to  Jamaica,  hie  cannot  understand  why 
she  has  kept  this  a  secret,  but  Jocelyn  had  wanted  to  wait  until  they  were  once  again  together — in  Merrimac. 
Both  wonder  when  this  will  be — and  whether  the  forces  keeping  them  apart  will  be  a  challenge  even  then. 


61 


THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE 


i  Continued  1 


2.  Despite  Mooch's  pleadings,  and  Jocelyn's  letters  say- 
ing that  she  does  not  return  his  love,  Armond  Monet 
forsakes    his    career    to    follow    Jocelyn    to    Jamaica. 


not  love  him  and  makes  every  effort  to  turn  his  love 
toward  his  estranged  wife,  Lil.  .  .  .  Meanwhile,  Jim 
flies  to  Jamaica,  too,  having  learned  about  the  baby 
Jocelyn  expects.  But,  when  he  asks  why  Jocelyn  had 
kept  this  a  secret  from  him,  she  cannot  explain  the 
fears  which  made  her  want  to  wait  until  they  were 
once  again  together — in  Merrimac.  ...  As  she  and 


Pictured  here*  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Dr.  Jim   Brent Don  MacLaughlin 

Jocelyn   Brent Virginia   Dwyer 

Sibyl  Overton  Fuller Barbara  Becker 

Aunt  Reggie Dorothy   Sands 

Armand  Monet Michael  Kane 

Mooch Frank    Behrens 

The  Road  Of  life,  CBS  Radio,  1  P.M.  EDT,  CBS-TV,  1 :15  P.M., 
M-F,  for  Ivory  Soap,  Spic  'n  Span,  Crisco,  Drene,  Ivory  Flakes! 


3.  Sibyl  has  deceived  herself  about  Jim  for  so  long  that 
now,  as  she  tries  to  get  him  to  say  that  he  loves  her  and 
will  divorce  Jocelyn,   she   half-fears  forcing   the  issue. 


Jim  share  a  few  precious  hours  on  this  exotic  Carib- 
bean island,  Jocelyn  wonders  when  that  day  will  come 
—whether  it  will  ever  come.  Jim  stifles  her  doubts  but 
he,  too,  wonders  how  long  their  separation  will  drag 
on.  He  also  wonders  about  the  problems  that  will  still 
exist  when  Jocelyn  returns-— the  continued  schemings 
of  Sibyl;  Aunt  Reggie's  growing  influence  on  young 
Janie's  life;  and  even  the  difficulties  that  come 
hand-in-hand  with  the  rewarding  joys  of  Jocelyn  s 
pregnancy.  As  Jim  returns  to  Merrimac  and  Jocelyn 
stays  behind,  both  wonder  how  far  each  must  travel 
before  the  road  of  life  brings  them  together  again. 


60 


4.  When  Jim  learns  at  last  that  Jocelyn  is  to  bear  him  a  child,  he  flies  to  Jamaica.  He  cannot  understand  why 
she  has  kept  this  a  secret,  but  Jocelyn  had  wanted  to  wait  until  they  were  once  again  together— in  Merrimac. 
Both  wonder  when  this  will 


be and  whether  the  forces  keeping  them  apart  will  be  a  challenge  even  then. 


61 


Those  Whiting  Girts! 


I 


♦^ 


^ 


e 


''■•*w 


o 


» 


^■^ 


II 


vfi 


I      i 


Like  oil  sisters,  they  borrow  each  other's  clothes  and   kid  on  the  phone — but  they  cook  spaghetti  for  breakfast! 


Life  with  Margaret  and  Barbara  is 
a  ride  on  a  merry-go-round,  but  the 
ring  of  sisterly  love  is  pure  gold 

By  FREDDA  DUDLEY  BALLING 


Left,  Barbara  joins  in,  as  Margaret  "practices." 
Above,  their  nnother  ploys,  too.  At  right,  Margaret's 
daughter  Debbie  is  obviously  queen  of  the  household. 


BY  THE  TIME  you  read  this,  it  will  be 
possible  for  you  to  pull  up  your  chair 
before  yovir  TV  set  on  Monday  night 
and  laugh  at  the  zaniest  pair  of  sisters 
your  eyes  and  ears  have  ever  feasted  on. 
Their  surname  is  Whiting  and  their  program, 
Those  Whiting  Girls,  came  about  as 
naturally  as  a  sneeze:   Pepper  was  wafted 
upon  the  air.   A  friend,  recipient  of  the 
"pepper,"  dropped  in  upon  the  Whitings  on 
a  routine  day,  listened,  compressed  his  ribs, 
and  announced  from  the  top  of  the  nearest 
hill  that  the  nsters,  Margaret  and  Barbara, 
could  live  a  truly  hilarious  TV  show.  "More 
whimsy  than  Disneyland,  more  speed  than 
Winchell,"  was  part  of  his  sales  pitch. 

After  an  almost  imperceptible  interval, 
two  writers  were  ensconced  in  the 
Whiting  guest   {Continued  on  page  75) 


Those  Whiting  Girls,  CBS-TV,  Mon.,  9  P.M.  EDT,  is 
sponsored  by  General  Foods  and  Procter  &  Gamble. 


63 


^•^tW*^ 


RALPH  PAUL 

To  THE  millions  of  Strike  It  Rich  listeners  and 
viewers  throughout  America,  Ralph  Paul's  warm 
voice  is  as  familiar  as  an  old  friend's.  Ralph  himself 
is  an  old  friend  of  radio,  having  spent  half  his  life 
announcing,  starting  from  the  time  he  was  sixteen. 
Born  in  Denver,  Colorado,  he  worked  at  his  home- 
town station,  KVOO,  and  at  the  same  time  was  a 
brilliant  student  at  the  University  of  Denver.  That 
was  during  World  War  II,  and  Ralph  had  only  one 
semester  to  go  when  he  enlisted  in  the  Army.  Never- 
theless, he  squeezed  in  four  special  courses,  acquired 
the  necessary  amount  of  points  to  graduate — and  re- 
ceived a  Phi  Beta  Kappa  key.  After  his  discharge  in 
1945,  Ralph  became  a  "rolling  stone,"  announcing  in 
cities  from  El  Paso,  Texas,  to  Baltimore,  Maryland. 
When  he  reached  New  York,  he  landed  a  job  as  stafif 
announcer  with  local  Station  WOR.  Before  long, 
however,  Ralph  decided  there  wasn't  too  much  future 
in  being  a  stafT  man,  so  he  became  a  free-lancer, 
appearing  on  such  programs  as  The  Aldrich  Family 
and  Robert  Trout  And  The  News.  He  "struck  it 
rich"  in  1948  and  has  enjoyed  his  successful  stay 
with  the  show  ever  since.  Now,  Ralph  makes  his 
home  in  Greenwich,  Connecticut,  along  with  many 
other  TV  personalities.  Married  to  his  childhood 
sweetheart,  he  and  his  wife  Betty  Jane  have  two 
lively  young  children,  Marty  and  Susie. 


Spotlight  oh 


JACK  LESCOULIE 

HAVING  worked  both  on  and  behind  the  scenes  in  show  busi- 
ness since  he  was  7  and  made  his  vaudeville  debut.  Jack 
Lescoulie  now  faces  the  TV  cameras  with  complete  confidence, 
ease  and  sincerity.  Although  today  his  big  smile  and  suave 
voice  are  familiar  to  millions  who  have  watched  Today,  The 
Buick-Berle  Show,  and  The  Jackie  Gleason  Show,  Jack  hasn't 
forgotten  his  struggles  in  getting  to  the  top.  Born  in  Sacra- 
mento, California,  Jack  finished  high  school,  then  became  an 
announcer  at  Station  KGFJ  in  Los  Angeles.  After  spending 
three  days  and  nights  covering  the  Long  Beach  Earthquakes 
of  1931,  he  decided  to  return  to  school.  He  joined  Los  Angeles 
City  College,  then  the  Pasadena  Playhouse,  after  which  he 
landed  a  job  in  "Achilles  Had  a  Heel,"  with  Walter  Hampden. 
His  role?  The  off-stage  voice  of  an  elephant.  When  the  show 
played  in  New  York,  it  lasted  but  seven  performances,  and 
Jack  found  himself  broke  and  alone  in  the  big  city.  To  keep 
from  starving,  he  delivered  clothes  for  a  cleaner,  was  a  soda 
jerk,  had  a  few  small  parts  in  Broadway  plays,  then  decided 
to  return  to  Los  Angeles.  There  he  joined  NBC  and  created 
The  Grouch  Cluh.  World  War  II  found  him  in  the  Air  Force 
as  a  combat  reporter  in  Italy.  Returning  to  New  York  after 
his  discharge,  Jack  teamed  up  with  Gene  Rayburn  and  was 
heard  over  local  Station  WNEW.  In  1950,  Jack  moved  to  CBS 
to  become  a  TV  producer,  then  associate  program  director. 
When  Today  debuted  in  1952,  Jack  was  a  part  of  the  show. 
Since  then,  success  has  been  his  byword.  Jack  lives  with  his 
wife  Birdie  and  their  two-year-old  daughter  Linda  Ann,  on 
Long  Island.  For  pleasure,  he  says,  "I  shoot  a  miserable  game 
of  goK,  which  I  dearly  love,  and  I'm  a  pretty  good  horseback 
rider — but  I  never  do  that  any  more." 


Who's  Who  in  Radio  and  TV 


JULIA  MEADE 

A  NATIVE  New  Yorker,  lovely  Julia  Meade  was 
born  while  her  mother — a  Shakespearean  act- 
ress— was  in  Boston.  When  she  was  ten,  her  family 
moved  to  Ridgewood,  New  Jersey.  There,  as  a  high 
school  student,  Julia  showed  early  show-business 
promise  by  winning  a'  recitation  contest  two  years  in 
a  row — once  with  a  selection  from  "The  Taming  of 
the  Shrew";  the  second  time  with  "something  from 
'Cyrano'  " — and  appearing  in  the  senior  class  play. 
Diploma  in  hand,  Juha  headed  for  the  Yale  Drama 
School.  Although  this  famous  school  is  for  graduate 
work,  Julia  was  accepted  after  passing  the  entrance 
exam.  After  completing  her  studies,  she  spent  sev- 
eral years  as  a  TV  actress,  then  received  an  offer  to 
join  Ed  SuUivan's  Toast  Of  The  Town.  At  first  she 
turned  it  down,  but,  a  while  later,  she  reconsidered 
and.  decided  to  try  it — ^just  once.  She's  still  there,  and 
happily  so.  "I  love  the  show  and  I  love  Ed,"  Julia 
says.  "He  introduces  me  as  though  I  were  one  of  his 
big  acts."  Also  familiar  to  viewers  of  Your  Hit  Pa- 
rade, Julia  has  not  given  up  acting  entirely.  Last  sea- 
son she  appeared  on  Broadway  in  "The  Tender 
Trap,"  and  hopes  to  do  another  play  soon.  Married  to 
Worsham  Judd,  a  commercial  artist,  Julia  and  her 
husband  share  their  Manhattan  apartment  with  two 
cats.  In  addition  to  making  home  movies,  she  loves 
to   cook   and   "adores"   the  Yankee  baseball  team. 


Announcers 


REX  MARSHALL 

IIFE,  for  handsome  Rex  Marshall,  has  been  a  series  of 
I  gambles — some  good,  some  not  so  good.  Bom  in  James- 
town, New  York,  the  thirty-six-year-old  announcer  has  had 
broadcasting  in  his  blood  since  he  was  a  young  lad  and  worked 
for  small  and  medium-sized  stations  throughout  the  East. 
After  establishing  himself  in  Boston  as  a  capable  announcer- 
salesman-emcee.  Rex  decided  to  try  his  luck  in  New  York. 
After  a  series  of  menial  jobs,  none  of  which  were  in  broadcast- 
ing, he  returned  to  small  stations.  A  few  more  years  of  de- 
veloping his  talent  and  stature  on  local  stations,  and  Rex  was 
again  ready  to  gamble  on  New  York.  Uncle  Sam,  however, 
detoured  him,  and  he  entered  the  Air  Force.  The  day  he  won 
his  wings,  he  also  took  his  home-town  sweetheart,  Barbara, 
as  his  bride.  After  five  years  of  war  flying,  during  which  he 
survived  fovu-  crack-ups.  Rex  resumed  his  "Invasion  of  New 
York  Broadcasting"  and  finally  landed  an  announcing  job 
with  the  ABC  network.  Then,  eyeing  television  in  1948,  Rex 
took  a  chance  and  joined  New  York's  Station  WPIX  before  it 
even  opened.  Soon,  he  was  on  his  way  to  the  top,  highUghting 
his  stay  at  WPIX  with  his  brilliant  coverage  of  the  1948 
political  conventions.  Offers  began  pouring  in,  and  Rex  was 
hired  to  handle  the  commercials,  and  later  served  as  narrator 
and  host,  on  numerous  leading  network  shows.  Suspense, 
Ellery  Queen,  Mr.  Peepers,  are  only  a  few  of  the  programs 
on  which  his  friendly  face  and  manner  have  appealed  to  mil- 
lions. Often  busy  seven  days  a  week.  Rex  still  finds  time  to 
play  some  handball,  go  skeet  shooting  and  make  recordings 
for  the  blind.  His  happiest  moments,  however,  are  spent  with 
his  wife  Barbara  and  their  children —Pamela,  12,  and  Peter,  8 — 
at  home  in  Greenwich,  Connecticut. 


Ted  Mack  and  his  Matinee  are  dedicated  to  turning  the  spotlight  on  others- 


The  Honey  Dreamers  got  their  musical  start  in  college — and  two  of  thena  are  now  husband  and  wife.  Left  to  right, 
the  girls  are  Nan  Green  and  Marion  Bye  (Mrs.  Davis) — the  boys,  Bob  Mitchell,  Bob  Davis,  Stewart  Vannerson. 


Such  VIPs  as  Mrs.   Dale  Carnegie  visit  Ted's  program  to 
share  their  secrets  of  success  with  the  Matinee  audiences. 


PERSONAL  MEMO  to  Ted  Mack  fans:  After  years 
of  devoting  himself  to  America's  amateur 
talent,  as  emcee  of  the  Original  Amateur 
Hour,  your  Mr.  Mack  is  now  helping  "undis- 
covered"  professionals   on  this   season's  new 
daytime  variety  show,  The  Ted  Mack  Matinee, 
over  NBC-TV.  That's  great  news,  for  it  means 
that  ...  if  you  are  a  young  and  talented 
performer,  amateur  or  professional  ...  if  you 
are  young  and  talented  in  any  art — or  just 
young,  and  not  quite  sure  what  talent  you  may 
have  .  .  .  Ted  Mack  is  your  best  friend. 

Most  people  in  show  business  are  generous 
with  their  time  and  money,  public-spirited,  wai'm 
of  heart  .  .  .  but,  when  you  find  a  performer 
who  doesn't  want  to  talk  about  himself,  who 
can  think  of  practically  nothing  to  wish  for 
himself,  whose  ambition  is  more  for  others  than 
for  himself  .  .  .  this  is  something  new  under 
that  make-believe  paper  moon!  For  all  his  years 
on  stage,  before  the  camera,  behind  the  mike, 
your  Mr.  Mack  is  that  "something  new." 

Because  he  is,  it's  very  hard  to  get  a  story 
about  Ted  Mack  himself.   One  recent  afternoon,  I 
sat  in  the  audience  at  the  Ambassador  Theater 
in  New  York,  watching  the  Ted  Mack  Matinee, 
enjoying  the  singing  of  Dick  Lee,  Elise  Rhodes, 
the  Honey  Dreamers.   Enjoying  maestro  Mack's 
enjoyment,  too  .  .  .  taking  note  of  the  pleased 
and  proud  expression  on  his  face  a^  the  audience 


66 


irid  it  might  be  you 


By  GLADYS  HALL 


Ted    Mack    couldn't    be    prouder    of    Elise 
Rhodes  and  Dick  Lee  if  he  were  their  dad! 


See  Next  Page  ^ 


Q4wt^mm^^  mm^ 


{CanXvauzd.') 


Off-camera,  Ted  Mack  would  rather  go  riding  than  do 
almost  anything  else — particularly  if  his  saddle-pal  is 
that  "wonderful  Arabian  horse,  nay  good  friend  Khidaan." 


applauded  his  talented  yovmgsters  ...  liking  the 
verbal  pats-on-the-back  he  gave  them  when  their 
songs  were  done.  But  when,  after  the  Matinee, 
we  repaired  to  his  dressing  room  so  that  we  might 
talk  about  veteran  showman  Mack  himself — 
which  was,  after  all,  my  purpose  in  being  there 
— we  didn't.   That  is,  he  didn't. 

He  talked  about  the  youngsters  then  appearing 
on  his  Matinee  .  . .  about  Dick  Lee,  his  "Young 
Man  of  Song"  who — ^Ted  said  happily — ^is  rapidly 
becoming  the  No.  1  favorite  of  the  nation's 
bobby-soxers.  He  told  me  that  the  twenty -four- 
year-old  Lee  was  bom  in  Philadelphia,  the 
son  of  a  Police  Department  detective.    Boxing 
had  been  the  boy's  first  love,  and  his  sturdy  build 
and  lightning  reflexes  soon  made  a  mark  in 
amateur  contests.    Dick  also  loved  to  listen  to 
music,  all  kinds  of  music  from  be-bop  to 
classical,  and  thus  discovered — and  soon  was 
testing — his  own  voice.  Still  planning  on  a  boxing 
career,  however,  Dick  njade  a  successful  start 
in  the  ring,  was  a  Golden  Gloves  contender.  But, 
when  he  fractured  his  nose  in  one  of  his  bouts 
and  his  worried  mother  begged  him  to  hang  up 
the  gloves,  he  decided  to  turn  to  his  second 
love  and  become  a  singer. 

Dick  Lee's  first  professional  engagement  was 
at  a  small  night  club  in  New  Jersey,  where  he  was 
such  a  smash  hit  he  was  held  over  for  twenty-six 
consecutive  weeks.  Since  then,  he  has  won  first 
honors  on  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts,  his 
recordings  under  the  Essex  label   (among  them, 
"Infatuation,"  "Eternally,"  "I  Thought  You 
Might  Be  Lonely")  have  become  favorites  with 
disc  jockeys  and  listeners,  and  his  personal 
appearances  at  night  clubs  (Continued  on  page  92) 


The  Ted  Mack  Matinee  is  seen  over  the  NBC-TV  network, 
M-F,  3  to  3:30  P.M.  EDT,  under  participating  sponsorship. 


The  Macks  live  quietly,  and  Ted  spends  most  of  his 
rare  leisure  hours  catching  up  on  the  newspapers  and 
other  reading — or  playing  an  occasional   round  of  golf. 


68 


IT 
it 


J— SI 


The  Colmans  of  Ivy 

(Continued  from  page  46) 
Dr.  and  Mrs.  Hall  never  make  sensa- 
tional headlines  in  the  newspapers. 
Neither  do  Mr.  and  Mrs.  CoLman.  Despite 
their  long  and  distinguished  careers  in 
movies,  radio  and  television,  Ronnie  and 
Benita  have  never  been  "good  copy"  for 
the  gossip  columns.  Their  attitude  toward 
publicity  about  their  private  lives  is  just 
what  one  would  expect  from  Toddy  and 
Vicky  themselves.  As  Benita  sums  it  up, 
succinctly:  "I'm  sure  the  high  life  in  the 
~  eadlines  is  stimulating,  but  I  doubt  if  it 
is  nourishing!" 

In  Hollywood,  this  is  a  unique  attitude 
indeed.    But    even   the    Colmans'    show    is 
ique.   The  Halls  Of  Ivy  might  best  be 
escribed    as    "sparkling    entertainment — 
ith  a  moral."  It  is  one  of  the  first  tele- 
ision  series,  in  a  comic  vein,  to  comment 
in  the  structure  and  foibles  of  our  society. 
The  TV  Hails  Of  Ivy  evolved  naturally 
om  their  Peabody  Award-winning  radio 
eries,    brainchild    of    writer    Don    Quinn. 
ked  about  the  Cobnans'  own  contribu- 
on    to    the    show's    development,    Benita 
ys:    "It  has  been  very  much  'the  three 
egs  on  one  stool,'  with  Don  Quinn,  Ron- 
[nie  and  myself,  because  many  of  the  shows 
"  ave  developed  from  incidents  that  have 
happened  to  Ronnie  and  me.  The  episode 
we  call  'Traffic  and  Cocoanuts'  is  an  exam- 
ple. That's  the  one  in  which  Victoria  gets 
into  trouble  over  fovir  traffic  tickets.  I  was 
the  one  who  was  what  might  be  called  the 
'inspiration'  for  that!   Need   I  say  more?" 


IS  a  family,  the  Colmans  are  unique  in 
fthe  fact  that  their  ten-year-old  daughter, 
[Juliet,  is  not  included  in  the  show.  In  fact, 
[Vicky  and  Toddy  Hall  have  no  children. 
"Juliet  is  doing  her  best  to  get  in,  how- 
lever,"  Benita  laughs.  "She  keeps  saying,  T 
[don't  see  why  you  haven't  got  a  child!'  " 

But  the  near  future  looks  bleak  for 
I  Juliet,  in  that  respect — even  if  the  Ivy 
^script  should  miraculously  produce  a  child 
for  the  Halls  overnight — for  the  Colmans 
think  school  is  a  much  better  place  for 
Juliet,  just  now,  than  a  TV  studio.  "I  don't 
beUeve  Juliet  would  think  much  of  it," 
says  her  mother,  "if  she  had  to  stay  on  the 
set  some  eight  hours  out  of  each  day." 

Ronnie  and  Benita  have  found  that  TV 
demands  five  times  as  much  time  as  their 
one-day-a-week  radio  show.  "It  takes  a 
lot  more  of  getting  up  early,"  Benita  ex- 
plains, "and  learning  and  all  that  sort  of 
thing.  It  is  absolutely  a  24-hour  project. 
We  get  up  at  half-past  six,  arrive  home  at 
seven  that  night,  and  are  in  bed  by  nine. 
That  is  the  story  of  our  lives  at  the  mo- 
ment." 

However,  though  the  hours  are  hard, 
Benita  says  the  work  itself  is  not.  "It's 
very  gay  on  the  set.  We  have  a  lot  of  fun." 
As  for  working  together,  the  Colmans  en- 
joy it  very  much.  "Nobody,"  she  adds, 
"blacks  anybody's  eyes  here!" 

There  is  a  very  definite  Colman  touch  to 
their  lunch  hour,  too.  Harry,  a  sort  of 
handyman  around  the  Colman  household 
for  nearly  sixteen  years  now,  prepares  a 
substantial  box  lunch  which  has  been  or- 
dered by  Benita.  This  she  lays  out  in  her 
dressing  room,  and  then  the  meal  is  shared 
by  their  producer.  Bill  Frye,  and  their  di- 
rector— either  Norman  McLeod  or  Wil- 
Ham  Cameron  Menzies.  According  to 
Benita,  such  a  lunch,  without  all  the  time- 
consxmiing  elements  of  a  restaurant,  is 
very  functional.  "We  can,"  she  says,  "spend 
the  time  running  lines  or  discussing  the 
action.  It  makes  it  easier  when  you  are 
so  terribly  short  of  time." 

The  Colmans'  home  is  in  San  Ysidro, 
near  Santa  Barbara,  California.  While 
working  in  Hollywood,  they  live  in  an 
apartment.   Juliet,  who  goes  to  school  in 


Is  there  an  air  of  freshness 
about  you  . . .  always? 


All  summer,  every  day,  you're 
confident,  certain  of  your  freshness— 
when  you  use  Fresh  Cream  Deodorant. 

Your  Underarms  are  dry ..  .stay  dry! 
There's  not  a  trace  of  odor.  No  worry 
about  staining  lovely  clothes.  Why? 

Fresh  contains  the  most  effective 
perspiration-checking  ingredient  known. 

Fresh  has  a  wonderful  freshness 
all  its  own.  A  delicate  clear  fragrance. 
A  pure  whiteness.  A  whipped  cream 
smoothness.  It's  never  sticky  .  .  .  never 
greasy — always  gentle  to  skin. 

For  an  air  of  freshness  use  Fresh  every 
day.  You  can't  help  but  be  lovely  to  love. 


fA^  contains  the  most  effective 
perspiration-checking  ingredient  known. 


a  fJlJlAh  gi^l  is  always  lovely  to  love 

f/^lCAO  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Pharma-Craft  Corporation.  Also  manufactured  and  distributed  in  Canada. 


69 


Santa  Barbara,  spends  every  other  week- 
end with  them  in  Hollywood.  And,  every 
ten  days,  they  go  to  Santa  Barbara  for 
four  days  of  relaxation. 

Asked  how  she  feels  about  the  separa- 
tion from  Juliet,  Benita  says:  "We  miss 
her  like  mad,  of  course.  We  talk  on  the 
phone  a  lot — and  we  do  go  up  every  ten 
days."  She  definitely  does  not  think  that 
their  absence  hurts  their  relationship  with 
their  child.  "When  we  are  together,"  she 
says,  "we  are  together  all  the  time.  I  think 
that  makes  up  for  a  few  days'  separation." 

The  most  unique  thing  about  the  Col- 
mans  is  the  manner  in  which  they  spend 
their  four-day  vacations  on  their  San 
Ysidro  ranch.  As  Benita  describes  it:  "We 
lie  prone — or  is  it  supine? — I  never  know. 
Anyway,  we  lie  about  in  little  heaps  like 
uncounted  laundry,  waiting  for  time  to  put 
the  starch  in  us  again. 

"Actually,  we  have  piles  of  books  in  the 
back  of  the  car,  and  everything  at  the 
ranch  is  set  to  receive  us.  The  fireplace  is 


burning,  the  record  machine  is  waiting — 
and  Juliet  is  playing  the  piano.  At  the  mo- 
ment, she  is  long  on  enthusiasm  and  short 
on  repertoire.  I  play  the  piano  myself,  and 
we  sometimes  have  very  hot  duets  going. 

"We  are  extremely  'occupied'  people," 
Benita  continues.  "We  have  no  trouble  in 
taking  care  of  our  time.  Ronnie  likes  to 
paint.  He  paints  rather  well,  though  he's 
apt  to  complain  a  bit.  'The  light's  not  right,' 
he'll  say,  or  'The  color's  bad,'  or  'The  per- 
spective is  a  problem.'  Yet  his  landscapes 
and  flowers  are  truly  charming.  I  don't 
know  his  'sale  value,'  because  nobody  has 
really  made  a  purchase  yet.  However,"  she 
adds,  smiling,  "I  understand  Juliet  has 
opened  negotiations  for  a  still-life.  The 
last  I  heard  was  a  good  deal  of  haggling  in 
the  neighborhood  of  seventy-five  cents." 

As  for  Benita's  own  artistic  endeavors, 
she  reports:  "Painting  is  a  nice  absorbing 
occupation.  That  is  why  I  took  up  sculp- 
ture. Everybody  was  painting,  so  I  thought 
I'd  go  off  on  a  branch  of  my  own.  It  turned 


out  to  be  exceedingly  unwieldy,  because— 
once  you've  made  something — you  can't 
take  it  anywhere.  It  is  awful.  And  then," 
she  adds  wickedly,  "all  those  naked  mod- 
els are  so  impractical  for  the  average 
household  and  are  apt  to  give  the  casual 
caller  quite  a  turn!  I  finally  had  a  piece  of 
mine  carted  up  from  Hollywood  to  Santa 
Barbara.  It  arrived  cracked  all  over.  But  I 
think  it  is  improved.  The  rough  treatment 
lent  it  a  slightly  Pompeian  air!" 

Yes,  this  life  of  the  Colmans  is  the  most 
unique  thing  about  them.  In  fact,  it's  this 
very  thing  that  they  are  so  reluctant  to 
talk  about.  But  Benita  has  explained  their 
feelings,  their  reasons  for  wanting  to  keep 
their  private  lives  private,  and  logic  agrees 
with  her.  It's  only  when  she  tells  you  just 
a  little  bit  about  this  life  together,  that  one 
gets  more  curious  than  ever. 

All  in  all,  it's  a  simple  yet  completely 
charming  existence.  Perhaps  it  isn't  too 
surprising  that  the  Colmans  want  to  keep 
it  so  much  to  themselves! 


With  a  Smile  in  His  Voice 


(Continued  from  page  42) 
went   their   chairs,    out   came   their   auto- 
graph books,  and  the  rush  was  on! 

Now,  the  friends  who  had  gathered  about 
the  Smiths  were  Ralph  and  Barbara  Ed- 
wards, and  Bert  and  Annette  Parks.  The 
autograph-hunters,  however,  were  only  in- 
terested in  Bert  Parks — for  the  year  was 
1950,  and  he  was  the  only  one  who  had 
yet  appeared  on  TV.  It  didn't  matter  that 
Ralph  Edwards  and  Jack  Smith  were  two 
of  America's  top  radio  personalities.  None 
of  their  countrymen  recognized  them. 
Ralph  and  Jack  didn't  say  anything.  There 
was  no  need.  Each  knew  exactly  what  the 
other  had  seen.  He  had  seen  the  hand- 
writing on  the  wall.  .  .  . 

If  this  same  meeting  were  to  take  place 
today,  the  autograph-hunters  would  have 
a  field  day,  for  Ralph  Edwards  is  now  host 
and  emcee  of  NBC-TV's  This  Is  Your  Life, 
and  Jack  Smith  is  host  and  emcee  of 
CBS-TV's  new  Welcome  Travelers  series. 
And,  while  it  all  started  in  Paris,  success 
didn't  come  overnight — nor  did  it  come 
easily.  Ralph  tried  the  first  TV  version  of 
Truth  Or  Consequences,  his  long-popular 
radio  show,  before  really  coming  into  his 
ov.r"n  with  This  Is  Your  Life.  As  for  Jack — 
well,  the  story  of  his  success  would  give 
Ralph  a  happy,  heart-warming  program, 
but  you'll  never  see  it  dramatized  on  This 
Is  Your  Life.  Ralph  figures  too  import- 
antly in  that  story  himself.  .  .  . 

The  most  unusual  thing,  of  course,  about 
"The  Jack  Smith  Story"  is  the  name  of  the 
hero.  "What's  in  a  name?"  Shakespeare 
asked,  but  he  was  thinking  of  roses — not 
entertainers. 

When  it  came  to  giving  his  children 
names,  however.  Major  Walter  Smith  was 
scarcely  concerned  how  they  might  sound 
on  radio  or  television.  "My  father  was  a 
New  Englander,"  Jack  recalls,  "descended 
from  a  long  line  of  Smiths.  And  none 
of  them  had  ever  been  actors."  The  Ma- 
jor himself  was  a  former  Annapolis  man 
who  had  transferred  to  the  Army. 

Jack  was  born  at  Fort  Ward  on  Bain- 
bridge  Island,  Seattle,  Washington — which 
explains   why   his   middle   name   is   Ward. 
"Dad  didn't  try  too  hard,"  Jack  says  with 
a  fond  smile.   (He  named  his  younger  son 
Walter   Reed   Smith — and  he,   too,   was  to 
become  a  performer,  dropping  the  Smith 
when    he    went    to    Hollywood.) 
^        When  Jack  was  five,  the  Major  moved 
y    his  family  to  Honolulu,  where  he  was  sta- 
f^    tioned  for  the  next  four  years.  Then,  re- 
tiring from  the  Army  and  entering  private 
business,    he    moved    the    family    to    Los 
Angeles.  It  was  there,  at  Hollywood  High 


School,  when  he  was  only  fifteen-and-a- 
half,  that  Jack  formed  a  trio  which  was  to 
become  "The  Ambassadors,"  and  a  duo 
which  was  to  become  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jack 
Smith.  But  the  first  was  easier  to  achieve 
than  the  second! 

"I  always  liked  to  sing,"  Jack  recalls. 
"I  was  in  the  school  glee  club,  and  then  I 
got  together  with  two  of  my  classmates 
to  make  up  a  trio.  Well,  in  those  days — 
if  you  were  girls,  you  copied  the  Boswell 
Sisters.  If  you  were  boys,  you  copied  'The 
Rhythm  Boys' — Harry  Barris,  Al  Rinker, 
and  Bing  Crosby." 

The  newly  formed  trio  was  lucky.  The 
Rhythm  Boys  were  appearing  at  Holly- 
wood's famous  Cocoanut  Grove.  "We  used 
to  go  nightly,"  Jack  admits,  "and  copy 
their  style.  And,  when  they  finished  their 
engagement,  we  auditioned  as  their  re- 
placement. We  were  young  enough  to  have 
the  nerve  and,  somehow,  we  got  the  job." 

They  called  themselves  "The  Ambassa- 
dors" because  the  Cocoanut  Grove  is  in 
the  Ambassador  Hotel.  (Jack's  father,  ap- 
parently, wasn't  the  only  one  who  "didn't 
try  too  hard"  when  it  came  to  names.) 
After  six  months  at  the  Grove,  singing 
with  Gus  Arnheim's  band,  the  trio  ac- 
cepted an  engagement  in  San  Francisco. 
Then  Phil  Harris  asked  them  back  to  the 
Grove.  When  he  took  his  band  on  tour,  the 
next  two  years.  The  Ambassadors  went 
along. 

That  two  years  away  from  California 
turned  out  to  be  a  blessing  in  disguise,  for 
while  he  was  away.  Jack  found  that  he 
was  missing  someone  more  than  he  an- 
ticipated— the  soon-to-be  Mrs.  Jack  Smith. 

Her  name  was  Victoria  Stuart,  and  she 
was  fifty-five  minutes  younger  than  Jack. 
In  fact,  that  coincidence  of  birth  accounted 
for  their  meeting!  Vickii's  cousin  was 
giving  her  a  birthday  party,  and  then  de- 
cided it  might  as  well  be  for  Jack,  too, 
since  he  was  born  on  the  same  day — No- 
vember sixteenth. 

"We  started  going  together,"  Jack  re- 
calls, "but  Vickii  was  also  dating  another 
fellow  at  the  time.  I  remember  that,  when 
I  couldn't  get  my  wife-to-be  to  go  out 
with  me,  I  used  to  take  out  her  mother, 
who  is  a  wonderful  person — and,  thanks 
to  her  I  won  out.  She  helped  do  a  good 
selling  job  on  me." 

After  going  together  for  two  and  a  half 
years.  Jack  and  Vickii  were  married  on 
their  eighteenth  birthday.  "From  the  very 
start,  we  were  inseparable.  Life's  too 
short,"  he  says.  "We  don't  go  for  being 
apart."  So  everywhere  The  Ambassadors 
went — and  they  covered  most  of  the  coun- 


try— Vickii  went  along.  But  the  thing  she 
and  Jack  really  wanted  was  to  settle 
down,  in  a  home  of  their  own — and,  thanks 
to  another  singer  named  Smith,  they  got 
their  wish.  The  Ambassadors  were  engaged 
for  the  Kate  Smith  radio  show. 

"We  set  up  housekeeping  in  a  New  York 
apartment,"  Jack  says,  then  sighs  in  happy 
reminiscence.  "Our  first  home!"  But  The 
Kate  Smith  Show  was  important  to  them 
for  another  reason,  as  well.  From  the  very 
start,  the  trio  had  been  singing  on  radio 
along  with  the  bands  which  engaged  them. 
Now,  however,  they  were  on  their  own — 
"strictly  radio,  and  away  from  the  band 
business,"  as  Jack  puts  it.  After  four  years 
with  Kate,  The  Ambassadors  were  engaged 
for  the  Eddie  Cantor  radio  show.  And 
then  it  happened.  .  .  . 

"I'm  a  grateful  guy,"  Jack  says.  "I've 
been  led  into  every  fortunate  thing  that's 
happened  to  me."  Apparently,  however, 
there's  such  a  thing  as  being  too  lucky. 
One  radio  show  led  to  another,  and  some- 
how Jack  found  himself  singing  on  eleven 
major  shows  (including  those  with  Rudy 
Vallee,  Frank  Fay,  Lucky  Strike,  tlu-ee 
Philip  Morris  shows,  Texaco,  Prudential 
Family  Hour).  In  addition  to  being  one 
third  of  The  Ambassadors  he  was  one  four- 
teenth of  "The  Swing  Fourteen,"  as  well  as 
a  Hit  Parader  and  one  of  Beverly's  Boy 
Friends. 

"While  one  show  went  off,"  he  recalls, 
"the  other  went  on."  It  proved  too  much 
for  Jack.  Normally  a  completely  relaxed 
person  who  sings  because  he  enjoys  it — 
in  1941,  he  broke  out  in  shingles.  "I  had 
reached  the  end  of  my  rope  as  far  as  nerves 
were  concerned."  Luckily,  he  had  be- 
come a  soloist  on  The  Prudential  Family 
Hour.  The  time  had  come,  he  felt,  to  strike 
out  completely  on  his  own.  Giving  up  his 
ten  other  shows,  he  made  the  break.  From 
now  on,  he  was  "strictly  solo." 

That  was  when  his  name  became  im- 
portant. To  distinguish  him  from  "Whis- 
pering" Jack  Smith,  he  was  called 
"Smiling"  Jack  Smith — thanks  to  Deems 
Taylor,  The  Family  Hour's  host  who 
used  to  introduce  him  as  "the  fellow  with 
the  smile  in  his  voice."  And,  when  Jack 
would  sing  his  Spanish  numbers,  Deems 
would  call  him  "Juanillo  Foriador" — which 
means  "Little  John,  the  Smithy,"  but  how 
else  can  you  say  Jack  Smith  in  Spanish? 

But  if  Jack  had  been  overworked  be- 
fore, that  was  nothing  compared  with  what 
he  got  into  next.  With  World  War  II  im- 
minent, he  enrolled  in  a  course  in  aircraft 
instrument  maintenance — "so  when  we  did 
go  in,  I'd  be  prepared  to  do  something." 


The  course  was  to  last  a  year — six  days  a 
week — but,  after  six  months,  Jack  was 
made  an  instructor.  That  meant  six  nights 
a  week,  as  well. 

"Now  I  really  started  to  work,"  he  re- 
calls. He  taught  from  1941  until  the  be- 
ginning of  1946,  doing  The  Family  Hour — 
on  his  "day  off" — Sunday — so  he  could 
keep  his  own  family  going.  By  1945,  how- 
ever, when  the  war  looked  as  though  it 
might  be  coming  to  an  end,  his  manager 
thought  it  was  time  Jack  took  on  a  few 
more  shows.  With  the  result  that  Jack  was 
back  where  he  was  before  the  war— on 
radio  seven  days  a  week.  Only  now  he 
was  teaching  six  days  a  week,  as  well! 

But,  on  August  19,  1945,  all  this  hard 
work  was  more  than  repaid — for  that  was 
the  night  The  Jack  Smith  Show  first  went 
on  the  air.  A  quarter-hour  musical  show,  on 
five  nights  a  week,  it  was  to  continue 
on  radio  for  the  next  eight  years.  In  1948, 
the  show  moved  from  New  York  to  the 
West  Coast — so,  at  long  last,  the  Smiths 
were  home.  And,  at  long  last,  they  had 
the  security  to  buy  the  house  they  had  al- 
ways dreamed  of. 

"Three  years  ago  this  summer,"  Jack 
says,  "we  found  just  the  place — high  in  the 
Hollywood  Hills,  with  a  view  of  the  Pacific 
and  all  of  Los  Angeles.  It  had  to  be  a  big 
home  to  accommodate  all  the  furniture  we 
had  been  accumulating.  Every  weekend 
while  we  lived  in  New  York,  we'd  go  to 
Connecticut,  New  Hampshire,  and  even 
Maine,  in  our  search  for  Early  American 
antiques.  We'd  do  our  refinishing  on  the 
roof  of  our  apartment  house." 

With  his  own  show,  Jack  not  only  had 
the  security  to  do  what  he  wanted,  but  the 
time.  "I  think  simplicity  is  the  answer  to 
everything,"  he  says.  "You  can't  be  rush- 
ing. You've  got  to  have  time  to  take  a 
look  at  other  people — and  to  take  a  look 
at  yourself." 

And  that  was  why,  in  1950,  when  Ralph 
Edwards  and  Jack  saw  that  TV  was  the 
coming  thing.  Jack  had  reason  to  reflect. 
It  wasn't  just  his  security  which  was 
threatened,  but  his  serenity,  as  well.  His 
yardstick  was  no  longer  the  number  of 
shows  he  could  appear  on,  but  the  num- 
ber of  days  he  and  Vickii  could  spend 
together. 

Curiously  enough,  it  was  Jack's  quality 
as  a  human  being — even  more  than  his 
ability  as  a  performer — that  got  him  his 
first  break  in  television.  And  it  was  Ralph 
Edwards  who  sold  the  sponsors  of  Place 
The  Face  on  using  Jack.  They  knew  he 
could  sing,  but  how  did  they  know  he 
could  emcee? 

"Because  he's  sincere,"  Ralph  said.  "He 
genuinely  likes  people  and  they  like  him. 
What's  more,  he's  honest,  he's  real — there's 
nothing  manufactured   about   him." 

The  sponsors  were  convinced.  For,  in 
Jvly,  1953,  Jack  appeared  as  emcee  of  Place 
The  Face — his  first  regular  TV  show.  It 
was  a  start,  but  Jack  wasn't  sure  he 
wanted  a  night-time  spot  "where  you've 
got  to  keep  socking  all  the  time,  and  you,'re 
only  as  good  as  your  last  show."  The  place 
for  him,  he  felt,  was  in  daytime  TV. 

"It's  the  friendlier  part  of  the  twenty- 
four  hours,"  he  explains.  "That's  when 
the  type  of  person  I  want  to  appeal  to  is 
watching.  They  want  you  to  just  be  your- 
self, and — if  they  like  you — they're  loyal." 

Last  May  ninth,  when  Jack  became 
emcee  of  Welcovie  Travelers,  he  not  only 
"found  the  show  I'd  been  holding  out  for, 
but  fulfilled  a  tremendous  hope."  Now,  at 
long  last,  he  is  free  to  be  himself — not 
"Smiling"  Jack  Smith  or  "Juanillo  For- 
jador,"  but  just  plain  Jack  Smith.  And  he 
can  thank  his  father  for  giving  him  the 
name.  It's  friendly  and  real  down-to- 
earth.  And,  somehow,  it's  just  right  for  the 
man  who  bears  it — and  perfect  for  the 
daytime  TV  he  loves,  so  well. 


TEST  YOUR  MONEY  I.Q..' 


WIN  A  VALUABLE  PRIZE! 


CATCH-TBE-CASH  puzzle 


NOTHING  TO  BUY!  NO  OBLIGATION! 

Win  a  valuable  prize!  Solve  this  easy  Catch- 
the-Cash  puzzle!  The  folks  in  the  puzzle  are 
catching  $236.  cash.  You  can  see  a  $100 
bill  ...  $50  bill  ...  $20  bill  ...  and  $1 
bill.  Now  fill  in  the  3  missing  amounts  on 
the  puzzle  below  to  make  a  total  of  $236. 
Here's  a  hint.  One  of  the  missing  bills  is 
$10.  Now  do  you  know  the  other  2  missing 
amounts?  Enter  the  missing  dollars  on  the 
small  puzzle  below.  Fill  out  the  coupon,  clip 
around  dotted  line  &  mail  NOW  for  your 
FREE  GIFT! 

IT'S  EASY  TO  CATCH  CASH 
$50 . . .  $100 . . .  $500  &  more 
IN  SPARE  TIME 

We're  looking  for  folks  with  bright  minds  to 
make  easy,  extra  money!  Just  show  fast- 
selling  Merit  21  for  $1  Christmas  Cards  & 
other  best  sellers  to  friends,  co-workers,  etc. 
They're  such  bargains  they  practically  sell 
themselves!  YOU  make  up  to  50<  profit  per 
box!  Easiest  way  to  get  QUICK  CASH — & 
plenty  of  it  in  spare  time!  Also,  special  fund- 
raising  plan  for  groups.     Check  coupon  below. 


GET  YOUR 

FREE  PRIZE  NOW! 

HURRY 

OFFER  LIMITED!    i 


THIS  EXQUISITE  BOX  OF 

21  BEAUTIFUL 
MERIT 
Christmas  Cards! 

All  YOURS!   A  gorgeous  box  of  21 
brand  new  Merit  Christmas  Cards 
with  matching  envelopes!   Easily 
worth  1S(  to  25 (  EACH.    All 
21  are  yours  FREE  if  you  solve 
the  puzzle.   Mail  the  right        -^ 
answer — NOW! 


PASTE  ON  POST  CARD-MAIL  NOW 


Yours  to  keep  —  absolutely 
Free — Merit's  full  21  Christ 
mas  Card  assortment  when 
you  send  the  answer  to  our 
easy  puzzle!  We'll  also  send 
you  FREE  personalized  sta 
tionery  &  other  samples  on 
approval.  Costs  nothing  to 
try!  Only  1  entry  per  family. 
We  reserve  right  to  reject 
entries  mailed  60  days  after 
the  month  printed  on  cover  of 
this  publication.  So  hurry! 
Rush  your  answer  to: 

Cofch-fhe-Casft 

MERIT 

Greeting  Card  Co 

370  Plane  St..  Dept.  207, 
Newark  2.  N.  J. 

Puzzle  &  coupon^  when  cut  along 
dotted  line,  can  be  pasted  to  fit 
back  of  post  card.  Or  mail  in 
envelope  if  you  wish.  Act  NOW! 

©Merit  1955 


Catch-the-Cash  MERIT  Greeting  Card  Co.  | 

370  Pfane  St.,  Dept.  207.  Newark  2,  N.  J.  j 

Here's  my  answer.    Please  rush  my  FREE  box  > 

of  21  Christmas  Cards  and  envelopes,  FREE  J 

Personalized  Stationery  and   other  samples  » 

on  approval.  I 

I 

f 

I 

I 
I 

City  Zone  State  | 

□  Check  here  for  Special  Fund-Raising  Plan  for  Groups        ■ 


Name 


(Please  PrintI 


Address 


71 


T 
V 
R 

72 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Daylight  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 
Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 

Local  Program 

8:45 

John  MacVane 

9:00 

Robert  Hurleigh 

Breakfast  Club 

9:15 

Easy  Ooes  It 

9:30 

News,  Cecil  Brown 

9:45 

9:35  Easy  Does  It 
(con.) 

10:00 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Cecil  Brown 

My  True  Story 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

Vincent  Peale 

10:15 

Joyce  Jordan,  M.D. 

Guest  Time* 

10:25  Whispering 

10:30 

Doctor's  Wife 

News 
10:35  Johnny 

Streets 

10:45 

Break  The  BanK 

Olsen  Show 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

11:00 

Strike  rt  Rich 

Florida  Calling  With 

Companion— 

Arthur  Godfrey 

Tom  Moore 

Dr.  Mace 

(con.) 

11:15 

11:25  Holland  Engle 

Paging  The  New 

11:30 

Phrase  That  Pays 

Oueen  For  A  Day 

Albert  Warner,  News 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 

11:45 

Second  Chance 

*Wed.,   Faith    In 
Our  Time 

Your  Neighbor's 
Voice 

Second  Husband 

Afte 

12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

rnoon    Progr 

ams 

Noon  News 
12:05  Down  At 
Holmesy's 

Valentino 
Frank  Farrell 

Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Rosemary 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

News,  Cedric  Foster 
Luncheon  At  Sardi's 
Ted  Steele  Show 

Paul  Harvey,  News 
Ted  Malone 

Road  Of  Life 
Ma  Perkins 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 
2:15 

2:30 
2:45 

Luncheon  With 

Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 

Hayes 
Wonderful  City 

Martin  Block 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 
Perry  Mason 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 
The  Brighter  Day 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

News 

3:05  Woman  In  Love 
Pepper  Young 
Right  To  Happiness 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Hilltop  House 
Art  Linkletter's 
House  Party 

4:00 
4:15 

4:30 
4:45 

Backstage  Wife 
Stella  Dallas 

Young  Widder  Brown 
Woman  In  My  House 

Bruce  &  Dan 

Tex  Fletcher's 
Wagon  Show 

Latin  Quarter 
Matinee 

Treasury  Bandstand 

Treasury   Bandstand 
4:55  News 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Just  Plain  Bill 
Lorenzo  Jones 
tone  Ranger 

5:55  Davy  Crockett 

Sgt.  Preston 

Bobby  Benson 
America's  Business 
5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Musical  Express 
Bobby  Hammack 
Gloria  Parker 
Vincent  Lopez 

fM-W-F 

News 

5:05  John  Faulk 

5:55  This  1  Believe 

6:00 
8:15 
6:30 
6:45 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Monday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening  Programs 


Alex  Dreier,  Man 

On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One   Man's   Family 


Henry  J.  Taylor 
Berkshire  Festival 


Telephone  Hour 


Band  Of  America 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Wings  For  Tomorrow 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Top  Secret  Files 


Broadway  Cop 


News,  Lyie  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Reporters'  Roundup 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Orchestra 
Distinguished  Artists 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,    News 

Quincy  Howe 

Strange 

Saga 

7:55  News 


Red  Benson 


Voice  Of  Firestone 


Music  Tent 
9:25  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Martha  Lou  Harp 


Jackson  &  The  News 
East  Of  Athens 


Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer 
Of  Lost  Persons 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 


Disk  Derby 


Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 

9:55  News 


Scoreboard 


Tuesday 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


NBC 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Oreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Biographies    In 
Sound 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
New  England 


Evening   Programs 

MBS  ABC 

Local  Program  ABC  Reporter 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 

John   Steele, 
Adventurer 


News,  LyIe  Vali 
9:05   Footnotes   To 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Army  Hour 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Men's  Corner 
Dance  Music 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Red   Benson 
8:25  News 
Alan  Dale  Show 
8:55  News 


Music  Show 
9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 
News 


9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Take  Thirty 


CBS 
Jackson  &  The  New; 

Lowell  Thomas 


Suspense 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Rosemary  Clooney 
Bing  Crosby 


Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Wednesday 


Evening  Programs 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 


8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


News 

8:35  College  Quiz 
Bowl 


Best  Of  Groucho 

Truth  Or 
Consequences 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 

Keys  To  The  Capital 


Thursday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


True  Detective 
Sentenced 


News,  LyIe  Van 
Spotlight  Story 
Family  Theater 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Roy  Rogers 
Dr.  Six  Gun 


News 

9:05  Barrie  Craig 


The  Loser 
9:55  News 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Great    Gildersleeve 
Jane  Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Virgil    Pinkley 

Medical   Press 

Conference 

Sounding  Board 

Evening 

Local  Program 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Red  Benson 


8:25  News 
Alan  Dale  Show 


8:55  News 


Music  Show 
9:25  News 

President's  News 
Conference 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Behind  The  Iron 

Curtain 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official  Detective 
Cry  Danger 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Virgil   Pinkley 

Book  Hunter 
Henry  Jerome  Orch. 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Blue  Ribbon  Bouts 


Programs 

ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


FBI  In  Peace  And 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 

Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Strange 
Saga 


Red  Benson 


Alan  Dale  Show 
8:55  News 


Music  Show 


9:25  News 

Rhythm  &  Blues 
On  Parade 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Front  &  Center 


Scoreboard 


White  House  Report 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 
Ernie 

Edward  R.  Murrow 


The  Whistler 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Rosemary  Clooney 
Bing  Crosby 


Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


Evening    Programs 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


National  Radio 
Fan  Club 


Radio  Fan  Club 
(con.) 


Ted   Heath   Orch. 
Stars  In  Action 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Counter-Spy 
City  Editor 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05   Footnotes  To 

History 
Heartbeat   Of 

Industry 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Forbes   Report 

London  Studios 

Melodies 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Red  Benson 
8:25  News 
Alan  Dale  Show 
8:55  News 


Music  Show 
Notes  &  Notations 

9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Indoors  Unlimited 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Godfrey  Digest 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


I 

I* 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


MBS 


-.Morning  Programs 

•:30, Monitor  Local  Program 

S:4S 


9:00  Monitor 
9:15 
9:30  I 
9:45 


10:00  Monitor 

10:15  i 
10:30  I 
10:45 


11:00  Monitor 

11:15 

11:30; 

11:45 


American  Travel 
Guide 


Lucky  Pierre 


Johnny  Desmond 

Show 
11:55  Young  Living 


ABC 


Doug  Browning 
Show 


GBS 


No  School 
Today 


No  School 
Today  (con.) 

Breakfast  Club 
Review 


11:05  Half-Pint 
Panel 

All  League  Club- 
house 


News 


News  Of  America 
Farm  News 


Garden  Gate 


News 

10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

10:55  News 


Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show 


"Afternoon  Programs 

I  Asked  You 


12:00  National    Farm    8> 
'  12:15      Home  Hour 

12:30  Monitor 
12:45 


Tex  Fletcher 
Wagon  Show 


News  Noon  News 

12:05  How  To  Fix  It  12:05  Romance 
101   Ranch  Boys 

American  Farmer  Gunsmoke 


1:00  Monitor 

1:15 

1:30 

1:45 


2:00  Monitor 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 


Fifth  Army  Band 
Ruby  Mercer 


Ruby  Mercer  (con.) 
2:25  News 
Sports  Parade 


3:00  Monitor 
a:i3 
3:30 
3:45 


Country  Jamboree 


4:00 

4:15 
4:30 
4:45 


Monitor 


'      5:00 

5:15 
I    5:30 

>    5:45 


Monitor 


Bandstand,  U.S.A. 


Teenagers,   U.S.A. 


5:55  News 


News 

1:05  Navy  Hour 

Vincent  Lopez 

1 :55  News 


News 

2:05  Festival,  with 
Milton  Cross 


News 

3:05  Festival  (con.) 


News 

4:05  Pop  Concert 

Horse  Racing 

World  Tourists 


News 
5:05  Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 


City  Hospital 
1:25  News,  Jackson 
Stan  Daugherty 
Presents 


Dance  Orchestra 
Teddy  Wilson  Orch. 


String  Serenade 
Skinnay  Ennis  Orch. 


Treasury  Show 


Adventures  In 

Science 
Richard  Hayes 
News,  Jackson 
5:35  Saturday  At 

The  Chase 


Evening  Programs 


1    6:00 

Monitor 

John  T.  Flynn 

News 

6:05  Pan-American 
Union 

News 

,    6:15 

World  Traveler 

Sports,  Bob  Finnegan 

Sports  Review 

6:30 

Report  From 
Washington 

Bob  Edge,  Sports 
Afield 

Capitol  Cloakroom 

6:45 

Basil  Heatter 

6:55  Joe  Foss, 
Sports 

7:00 

Monitor 

Pop  The  auestion 

News 

7:05  At  Ease 

News,  Jackson 
7:05  Make  Way  For 

7:15 

Youth 

7:30 

Wonderful  City 

Labor-Manage- 

Gangbusters 

7:45 

ment  Series 

1     8:00 
'      8:15 

Monitor 

True  Or  False 

News 

Gunsmoke 

8:05  Dance  Party 

8:30 

Quaker  City  Capers 

Disk  Derby, 

8:45 

Fred  Robbins 

9:00 

Monitor 

Hawaii  Calls 

News 

Two  For  The  Money 

9:15 

9:05  Dance  Party 

9:30 

Grand  Ole  Opry 

Lombardo  Land 

(con.) 

Country  Style 

9:45 

9:55  News,  Jackson 

10:00 

Monitor 

CBC  Symphony 

News 
10:05  Ozark 

Country  Style  (con.) 

10:15 

Jubilee 

10:30 

Ambassador  Hotel 

Dance  Orchestra 

Sunday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Monitor 

Light  And  Life  Hour 

Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drakb 

9:00 
9:15 

9:30 

9:45 

Monitor 

Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 

News 

9:05  Milton  Cross 

Album 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 

World  News  Roundup 
Sidney  Walton  Show 

Organ  Music, 

E.  Power  Biggs 
9:55  News,  Trout 

10:00 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 

Monitor 

Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 

News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 

Church  Of  The  Air 

Church  Of  The  Air 
(con.) 

11:00 
11:15 
11:30 
11:45 

Monitor 

Frank  And  Ernest 

Christian  Science 

Monitor 
Northwestern 

Reviewing  Stand 

Sunday  Melodies 
11:05  Marines  On 
Review 

News 

11:35  Christian  In 
Action 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 

Invitation  To 
Learning 

Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 

12:45 

Monitor 

Marine  Band 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 
Merry  Mailman 

The  World  Tomorrow 

News,  LeSueur 
12:05  The  Leading 

Question 
Foreign   Affairs 
Washington  Week 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

Monitor 

Global  Frontiers 
Christian  Science 
Lutheran  Hour 

Herald  Of  Truth 

News 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

Woolworth  Hour- 
Percy   Faith, 
Donald   Woods 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

Monitor 

Music  From  Britain 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 

Kathy  Godfrey 

World  Music 
Festival 

3:00 

3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Monitor 

Music  From  Britain 

(con.) 
Bandstand,  U.S.A 

Basil  Heatter 

News 

3:05  Air  Force  Show 

Hour  Of  Decision 

World  Music 
Festival  (con.) 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Monitor 

Salute  To  The  Nation 

Nick  Carter 

4:55  Lome  Greene 

Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 

News,  Trout 
4:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Monitor 

Adventures  Of  Rin 

Tin  Tin 
The  Masqueraders 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

News 

5:05  Disaster 

Church  In  The  Home 

News,  Trout 
5:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon  (con.) 
5:55  News,  Trout 

Monitor 


Evening   Programs 

6:00 

6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 


7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9.00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Great  Gildersleeve 
Monitor 


Public  Prosecutor- 
Jay  Jostyn 

On  The  Line,  Bob 
Considine 

AM  Star  Sport  Time 


Richard  Hayes  Show 


Studio  Concert 


West  Point  Band 
Enchanted  Hour 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr 
Success  Story 
Manion  Forum 
Keep  Healthy 


Billy  Graham 
Little  Symphonies 


Monday  Morning 

Headlines 
Paul  Harvey,  News 
Evening  Comes 


Gene  Autry 


Summer  In  St.  Louis 


News 

7:05  Showtime 

Revue 
George  Sokolsky 
Valentino 
Travel  Talk 


American  Town 
Meeting 


Walter  Winchell 
News,  Quincy  Howe 
Sammy  Kaye 
9:55  News 


Paul  Harvey,  News 

Elmer  Davis 
Revival  Time 


Juke  Box  Jury 


Our  Miss  Brooks 
Gary  Crosby 


Rudy  Vallee  Show 


News,  Schorr  . 

10:05  Face  The  Na-  ' 

tion  V 

John  Derr,  Sports  n 


See   Next   Page- 


73 


TV  program  highlights 

NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  JULY  8— AUGUST  7 


Baseball  on  TV 


D — Doubleheader         R — Road  game 


DATE 

TIME 

CH. 

JULY 

8,F. 

8:00 

11 

9,  Sat. 

2:00 

2,11 

10,  Sun. 

2:00 

11 

14,  Th. 

8:00 

9 

8:00 

11 

15,  F. 

1:30 

9 

1:30 

11 

16,  Sat. 

2:00 

2,8, 

2:00 

11 

17,  Sun. 

2:00 

8,9 

2:00 

11 

18,  M. 

8:00 

9 

8:00 

11 

19,  Tu. 

1:30 

11 

20,  W. 

1:30 

11 

.8:00 

9 

21,  Th. 

1:30 

9 

1:30 

11 

22,  F. 

8:00 

9 

8:00 

11 

23,  Sat. 

2:00 

2,11 

2:00 

8,9 

24,  Sun. 

2:00 

8,9 

TIME       CH. 


Dodgers  vs.  Giants 
Dodgers  vs.  Giants 
Dodgers  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 
Chi.  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Dodgers 
Chi.  vs.  Giants 
8,  9  Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 
Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 
Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 
Chi.  vs.  Dodgers 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 
Cine.  vs.  Giants 
Cine.  vs.  Giants 
Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Dodgers- 


D 


24,  Sun. 

26,  Tu. 

27,  W. 

28,  Th. 

29,  F. 

30,  Sat. 

31,  Sun. 

AUGUST 
1,M. 

2,Tu. 

3,W. 
4,Th. 
5,F. 

6,  Sat. 

7,  Sun. 


2:00 
8:15 
9:00 
2:00 
9:00 
2:00 
9:00 
8:15 
2:00 
2:00 
9:00 
2:00 

10:00 
8:15 

10:00 
2:00 
2:00 
2:30 
8:15 
2:00 
3:00 
2:00 


Cine.  vs.  Giants — ^D 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Cine. — R 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Cine. — R 
Chi.  vs.  Yanks 
Dodgers  vs.  Cine. — R 
Kan.  C.  vs.  Yanks 
Det.  vs.  Boston 


11 
11 

9 
11 

9 
11 

9 
11 

2 

8, 11    Kan.  C.  vs.  Yanks 

9         Dodgers  vs.  St.  L.— R 

8, 11    Kan.  C.  vs.  Yanks— D 

9  Dodgers  vs.  Mil.— R 

11  Clave,  vs.  Yanks 

9  Dodgers  vs.  Mil.— R 

11  Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 

11  Cleve.  vs.  Yanks 

9  Dodgers  vs.  Chi.- 

11  Det.  vs.  Yanks 

8, 11    Det.  vs.  Yanks 

2 


-R 


Giants  vs.  Cine. — R 
3, 11    Det.  vs.  Yanks— D 


8; 

9i 

10 

10; 

11: 

111 

12: 

12: 
12: 

12: 
1 


74 


Monday  through  Friday 


00  O  Morning  Show— News  &  Collingwood 

O  &  |T]  Today— Garroway  wakes  the  sun 
55  O  Herb  Sheldon-With  Jo  McCarthy 
00  Q  George  Skinner— Songs  &  chatter 
:00  O  Garry  Moore  Show— Songs&  laughter 

O  &  [U  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nursery 
:30  Q  Arthur  Godfrey   Time— The  gang 

O  &  H]  Way  Of  The  World-Drama 
:00  O  Home — Arlene   Francis,   homemaker 

O  Romper  Room— TV  baby-sitting 
:30  O  &  [s]  Strike  It  Rich-Here's  Hull 

©  Wendy  Barrie— Slightly  delirious 
:00  0  Valiant   Lady— Heart-tugging   drama 

O  &  [i]  Tennessee  Ernie— Noodling 
:15  G  &[l]Love  Of  Life-Serial 
:30  O  &  [H  Search   For  Tomorrow— Serial 

O  Feather  Your  Nest— Bud  Collyer 

O  Summer  Entertainment— Variety 
;45  O  (&  [U  at  2:30)— Guiding  Light 

(D  Dr.  Norman  Vincent  Peale 
:00  Q  Inner  Flame— Portia  faces  life 

O  Norman    Brokenshire   Show— Fun! 

Q  Claire   Mann— Glamorize   yourself 
:15  O  Road  Of  Life— Daytime  drama 
:30  0  &[l]WelcomeTravelers— From  NYC 

O  First-Run  Feature  Films 
:00  0  &  m  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show— Lively 

O  Here's  Looking  At  You— Beauty  hints 
:30  0  Art  Linkletter's  House  Party— Gay 
:00  0  &  [§]  Big  Payoff— Mink-lined  quiz 

O  Ted  Mack  Show— Variety 

O  Ted  Steele  Show— Variety 
:30  0  Bob  Crosby— Cats  and  all 

O  &  [U  Greatest  Gift— Serial 
:45  O  &  [U  Concerning  Miss  Marlowe 
:00  0  Brighter   Day— Daytime   drama 

O  &  [fl  Hawkins  Falls— Serial 
:15  0  &  [i]  Secret  Storm— Serial 

Q  First   Love— Drama   of   newlyweds 
:30  0  &  [i]  On  Your  Account— $$  quiz 

Q  World  Of  Mr.  Sweeney— Laughs 
EARLY   EVENING 
:30  O  Liberace— 88  keys  &  32  teeth 
:30  O  Million     Dollar     Movie— July     8-11, 
"Lucky     Nick    Cain,"    George     Raft,    Coleen 
Gray;    July    12-18,    "Devil    On    Horseback," 
Googie  Withers,  John  McCallum;  July  19-25, 
"Forbidden,"    Doug    Montgomery;    July    26- 
Aug.   1,  "Tom   Brown's  Schooldays." 
:45  0  Julius  La  Rosa— Songs 


LATE   NIGHT 
10:00  O  Million  Dollar  Movie— Same  sched- 
ule as  shown  at  7:30   P.M. 
11:00  (D  Liberace— Candelabras  and   music 
11:10  0  Featurama— Short  films 
11:15  O  Steve  Allen  Show-A  ball 


Monday  P.M. 


7:30  0  Life  With  Elizabeth-Betty  V/hite 

0  Name's  The  Same— Bob  &  Ray  emcee 
8:00  0  Burns  &  Alien— Coupled  comedy 

O  &  H]   Caesar   Presents— Phil    Foster 
stars   in   show   produced   by   Sid 

0  Digest   Drama— Shrunken  stories 
8:30  0  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts 

0  Voice  Of  Firestone— Summer  recitals 
9:00  0  &  [H  Those  Whiting  Girls— Comedy 

0  Pee  Wee  King  Show— Corn-fed  fun 
9:30  0    &  [U  Ethel  &  Albert— Comedy 

O  Robert  Montgomery  Presents 
10:00  0  &[8]WestinghouseSummerTheater 

0  Eddie  Cantor— Cool  comedy 
10:30  O  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  as  Sieve 


Tuesday 


7:30  0  Talent  Hour,  Country  Style 
8:00  0  Life  With   Father— Leon   Ames  stars 
O  Place   The   Face— Bill   Cullen   emcees 
8:30  0  Halls  Of  Ivy— Colmans  in  re-runs 
O  Arthur  Murray  Dancing  Party 
9:00  0  &[8]MeetMillie— Elena Verdugostars 
O  Kleenex  Theater — Absorbing 
0  Make  Room  For  Daddy— Re-runs 
9:30  0  &  [§]  Red  Skelton  Show— Re-runs 

0  Center    Stage— Hour    films    of    fine 
dramas  performed  during  past  winter  season. 
Special:  Aug.  2,  Musical  from  Detroit 
10:00  0  $64,000  Question— $$$$  quiz 
O  &  [1]  Truth  Or  Consequences 
10:30  0  Music '55— Sounds  by  Kenton 
O  '*'s  A  Great  Life— Re-runs 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  Disneyland— Repeat  shows 

8:00  ©  What's  The  Story— News-panel  quiz 

O  Request  Performance— Drama 
8:30  O  (&  m  at  9:30)  My  Little  Margie 

0  Mr.  Citizen— Stories  of  heroism 
9:00  0  Kraft  Theater— Fine  plays  as  usual 

0  Masquerade  Party— Costume  quiz 


9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret-Panel  quiz 

0  Penny  To  A  Million— Higher  finance 
10:00  0  &[1]  U.S. Steel  Theater-July  13, 27; 
Front  Row  Center,  July  20  &  Aug.   3 
O  This  Is  Your  Life— Re-runs 
0  Blue  Ribbon  Boxing 
10:30  O  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 
10:45  0  Henry  &  Rocky  Show— Variety 


Thursday 


7:30  0  Lone  Ranger— Hi  yo.  Silver! 
8:00  0  Meet  Mr.  McNulty— Re-runs 

O  &  [U  Best  Of  Groucho— Re-runs 

0  Soldier  Parade— Gl  entertainers 
8:30  O  Make  A  Connection— Quiz-panel 
9:00  O  &  tu  Dragnet— Webb  in  re-runs 

O  Star  Tonight— Filmed  teleplays 
9:30  O  &  [U  Ford  Theater— Re-runs 

O  Dotty  Mack  Show— Musicmimies 
10:00  0  Public  Defender— Reed  Hadley 

O  &  H]  lujc  Theater— From   Hollywood 
10:30  0  Willy-June  Havoc  in  July 

0  Racket  Squad— Hadley  stars 


Friday 


7:30  O  Adventures  Of  Rin  Tin  Tin— Arf! 

8:00  0  &  d]  Pantomime  Quiz— Stokey's  bit 
O  Midwestern  Hayride— Hillbilly  music 

8:30  0  Topper— Comedy  re-runs 

O  &  H]  Life  Of  Riley— Comedy  re-runs 
0  T-Men    In    Action— Crime    cotchin' 

9:00  0  Playhouse  Of  Stars— Filmed  dramas 
©  Mr.   &  Mrs.    North— Whodunits 

9:30  0  Our  Miss  Brooks— Re-runs 

O  &  H]  Dear  Phoebe— Comedy  re-runs 
0  The  Vise — Suspense  from  England 
10:00  0  The  Line-Up— City  police  in  action 

©  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
10:30  O  So  This  Is  Hollywood— Comedy 
©  Alec  Templeton— Music-maker 
0  Mr.  District  Attorney— David  Brian 


Saturday 


7:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Stunts  for  prizes 
O  Show  Wagon— Heidt's  talent  salute 
0  Ozark  Jubilee— 90-minute  hoedown 
8:00  0  America's     Greatest     Bands— Paul 
Whitemon   emcees  this    summer  replacement 
O  The  Soldiers— Comedy,  starring   Hal 
March  and  Tom   D'Andrea 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— Sam  Levenson 
O  &  [1]  Musical  Chairs— July  30  only: 
Spectacular 

0  Lawrence  Welk— Champagne  music 
9:30  O  Durante-O'Connor  Show— Re-runs 
10:00  O  &  [U  George  Gobel  Summer  Show 

O  Compass— Filmed  dramas 
10:30  0  Damon  Runyon  Theater— Stories 
O  &  HI  Your  Playtime 


Sunday 


6:00  0  I  Love  Lucy— Repeat  of  early  shows 
7:00  O  &  [§]  People  Are  Funny— Linkletter 

0  You  Asked  For  It— Art  Baker,  emcee 
7:30  0  Private  Secretary— Comedy  re-runs 

O  Spectacular— July  17 
8:00  0  &  [s]  Toast  Of  The  Town— Variety 

O  Sunday  Hour— GeorgeMurphy,emcee 
9:00  0  G-E  Theater— Ronald  Regan,  host 

O  &  H]  TV  Playhouse— Hour  teleplays 
9:30  0  Stage  7— Stories  filmed  In  Hollywood 

©  Life   Begins  At  Eighty— Lots  of  fun 
10:00  0  Julius  La  Rosa— Musicale 

O  &  m  Cameo  Theater 

0  Break  The  Bank— Bert  Parks,  quiz 
10:30  0  &  [s]  What's  My  Line?— Job  game 

Q  Bob  Cummings  Show— Farce  re-runs 

0  Paris  Precinct— Louis  Jourdon  stars 


w 


(Continued  from  page  63) 
accommodations  and  were  freely  taking 
notes  on  tape  recorders,  electric  type- 
writers and  celluloid  cuffs.  Madelyn  Pugh 
and  Bob  Carroll,  Jr.  couldn't  believe 
what  they  heard,  but  they  preserved  dia- 
logue and  continuity  with  the  incredulous 
delight  of  a  museum  curator  acquiring  the 
funny  bone  of  a  dinosaur. 

"People  aren't  like  that,"  said  Miss  Pugh. 

"No,  but  the  Whitings  are,"  beamed  Mr. 

larrcll. 

"Next  question — are  the  Whitings 
people?"  asked  his  collaborator. 

Mr.  Carroll  slid  this  query  into  the 
mixer  and  awaited  a  result,  which  proved 
to  be  a  fine,  smooth  epigram:  "The  Whit- 
ings are  a  moment  of  laughter  in  the  grim 
business  of  living." 

As  ideas  for  Those  Whiting  Girls  began 
to  congeal  in  the  minds  of  the  bemused 
writers,  it  seemed  logical  for  the  mother 
of  the  subjects  to  plaj-  herself  in  the  TV 
show.  Mrs.  Whiting  refused  with  a  simple, 
uncompUcated  "No."  Pressed  for  valid 
reasons,  she  offered  just  one:  "I  have 
avoided  show  business  all  my  life.  Now, 
at  this  late  date,  why  should  I  involve 
myself  with  a  pair  of  theatrical  come- 
backs?" 

"Comeback  is  a  hoiTid  word,"  said  Mar- 
garet. 

"And  a  true  one,"  said  Mrs.  Whiting, 
not  budging  an  inch. 

Margaret  sighed.  "True,  indeed.  I  was  a 
girl  singer  for  fifteen  years.  As  for  Bar- 
bara, she  was  a  midget  child  star  for  20th 
Century-Fox  longer  than  anyone  except 
Mr.  Zanuck's  grandmother  can  recall." 

This  crack,  like  most  Whiting  bon  mots, 
contains  just  enough  fact  to  give  the  fan- 
tasy   authentic    flavor.    The    daughters    of 


Those  Whiting  Girls! 

famed  songwriter  Dick  Whiting  grew  up  in 
show  business.  When  other  girls  were 
giggling  over  their  high-school  dance  pro- 
grams, Margaret  was  smiling  upon  her 
royalty  checks  from  recording  companies. 
Disc  collectors  cherish  her  platters  of 
"My  Ideal,"  "Bewitched,  Bothered,  and 
Bewildered,"  "Sentimental  Journey,"  "Slip- 
pin'  Around,"  "Moonlight  in  Vermont," 
and  the  more  recent  "End  of  a  Love  Af- 
fair," "The  Moon  Was  Yellow,"  and  "Stow- 
away." 

Meanwhile,  Barbara  was  living  through 
one  of  the  era's  longest  adolescences  in 
"Junior  Miss,"  "Centennial  Summer," 
"Home  Sweet  Homicide,"  "Carnival  in 
Costa  Rica,"  "City  Across  the  River,"  and 
"I  Can  Get  It  for  You  Wholesale."  Now 
in  her  twenties,  Barbara  looks  fourteen, 
speaks  with  the  wisdom  of  the  ages. 

When  it  became  apparent  that  the  ac- 
tual Mother  Whiting  could  not  be  per- 
suaded to  play  herself  in  the  TV  show, 
the  search  was  joined  for  a  logical  pro- 
totype. Seldom  has  a  casting  director  been 
faced  with  so  complicated  a  task:  He  must 
find  a  motherly  woman,  essentially  sweet, 
but  with  a  touch  of  lemon  for  contrast. 
She  must  not  dither,  neither  must  she  turn 
wry.  She  must  have  an  air  of  unquestion- 
able authority,  yet  she  must  be  flexible 
enough  to  roll  with  the  tides  set  up  by  as 
breezy  a  pair  of  daughters  as  ever  disen- 
gaged themselves  from  a  whirlwind.  She 
must  be,  in  brief,  Mrs.  Whiting  to  the 
life. 

Mabel  Albertson  finally  won  the  role 
and,  after  the  pilot  film  was  shot,  Mar- 
garet cornered  her  synthetic  mother  to 
demand  suspiciously,  "You  didn't  abandon 
me  in  Detroit  twenty-odd  years  ago,  now 
did  you?" 


Like  everyone  whom  the  Whitings  enjoy, 
Mabel  Albertson  has  become  a  member  of 
the  clan,  and  is  expected  to  take  her  place 
in  all  family  festivities.  This  can  be  a 
confusing  assignment.  In  the  TV  show, 
there  is  a  four-year  difference  in  the 
ages  of  Margaret  and  Barbara,  although — 
factually  speaking — between  them  there 
are  seven  years  and  a  good  deal  of  sisterly 
hi  jinks. 

Barbara's  hair  is  now  dark  auburn,  a 
color  job  useful  under  TV  lights.  When  a 
friend  complimented  her  upon  her  magni- 
ficent head  of  short,  bright  tresses,  Mar- 
garet answered  smoothly  for  her  sister: 
"And  just  think:  This  color  is  forever — 
and  a  dye." 

Barbara  is  the  telephone  kid.  She  is  on 
the  wire  from  morning  till  night,  but  most 
vociferously  from  four  until  seven  each 
afternoon.  In  regard  to  this  alternating 
dial-click  and  bell-ringing,  Margaret  has 
said,  "To  some,  this  is  the  children's  hour. 
To  others,  the  cocktail  hour.  To  us,  it  is  the 
dreadful  hour." 

Over  the  telephone — to  whatever  devoted 
buddy  with  whom  Barbara  happens  to  be 
carrying  on  one  of  those  guarded  but  elo- 
quent conversations  filled  with  be-bop, 
backstage  phrases,  and  pure  slang — she 
counters  Margaret's  assault  by  an  offensive 
of  her  own.  "In  our  TV  show,  my  sister 
has  to  be  beautiful — if  you  can  imagine." 

Margaret  says,  gazing  into  the  middle 
distance,  "A  lot  of  young  people — that's 
you — have  no  respect  for  their  elders.  No 
appreciation  of  the  things  they  might  learn 
from  relatives  and  friends.  They  could 
spare  themselves  a  bad  experience  later 
on,  but  they  won't." 

Barbara  says  to  her  caller,  as  if  the  com- 
ment    fitted     the     conversation     without 


j><fe/  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  prob  em 

Tested  by  doctors. .  .proved  in  hospital  clinics 


\ 


NORFORmS 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by  doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


1.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 


Mail  tt}is  coupon  today 


FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 

Just  mail  this  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-58 
Norwich  Pharmacal  Company,  Norwich,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 
plain  envelope. 


/ 

Namp 
Stre<"t 

(please   print) 

T 
V 
R 

A  NORWICH   PRODUCT 

City 

Zone 

State 

75 


planing  off  the  odd  edges,  "We  think  we 
have  the  very  first  musical  TV  show  in 
which  music  is  kept  in  its  place.  If  a  song 
advances  the  plot,  Margaret  sings  it.  Other- 
wise, she's  my  straight  woman.  An  in- 
novation— the  first  time  a  singer  has 
stooged  for  a  great  dramatic  actress." 

"It  may  be  the  last,"  observes  Margaret. 

"This  is  all  from  Chile,"  says  Barbara. 
"I'll  have  to  go  now.  Call  me  again  when 
you're  near  a  telephone." 

Hanging  up,  she  likes  to  make  an  an- 
nouncement of  devastating  import.  One  af- 
ternoon, she  explained  that  she  had  been 
looking  over  the  scripts  for  the  show, 
".  .  .  AND,  in  the  fifth  episode,  an  elephant 
steps  on  your  foot,  Margaret!" 

"Where  are  we  going  to  get  an  ele- 
phant?" Margaret  wanted  to  know. 

"At  the  carnival,  of  course.  Just  after  I 
get  the  paint  spilled  all  over  me!" 

Volatile  and  animated,  Barbara  is  in- 
clined to  illustrate  every  observation  with 
a  gesture.  Old-time  dramatic  coaches 
would  have  loved  her — an  attitude  not  en- 
tirely shared  by  Margaret,  who  is  more 
inclined  to  use  her  voice  for  effect. 

In  order  to  break  Barbara  of  some  of 
her  more  far-flung  gesticulations,  Mar- 
garet sometimes  assumes  an  exaggeratedly 
empty  expression  and  windmills  through 
one  of  Barbara's  active  exercises.  In  turn, 
Barbara  will  drop  her  voice  to  a  sub- 
Tallulah  register  and  imitate  her  sister's 
most  effective  vocal  mannerisms. 

To  get  the  flavor  of  the  home  that 
Margaret  likes  to  call  Madness,  Incorpor- 
ated, one  should  be  invited  to  Sunday  din- 
ner. First  order  is  church  attendance.  "We 
are  pretty  religious  about  going  to  church," 
is  the  way  Barbara  states  it. 

But  let  us  report  the  occasion  exactly 
as  a  guest  once  told  it  in  wonder  and  de- 
light— and  with  love,  as  well.  This  chap 
was  a  business  associate  of  the  Whitings, 
had  known  them  since  they  were  worry- 
ing about  whether  Dior  knew  what  he 
was  doing  with  hemlines  six  inches  from 
the  turf. 

"I  was  driving  along  Sunset  Boulevard 
around  noon,"  he  reported,  "when  Mar- 
garet pulled  up  alongside  of  me  in  her 
Cadillac  convertible  with  the  top  down, 
and  called  out,  'Come  on  up  to  the  house 
for  dinner.'  As  traffic  was  heavy  and  fans 
are  always  convinced  of  their  essential 
desirability  in  the  opinion  of  a  star,  Mar- 
garet found  herself  almost  immediately 
tailed  by  three  cars  in  addition  to  mine. 

"Of  this  she  was  totally  unaware.  She 
pulled  into  the  parking  lot  next  to 
Schwab's,   and    darted   into   the   drugstore 


while  her  admirers  cluttered  up  the  traffic 
on  Sunset  considerably.  Because  I  knew 
where  I  was  going,  I  continued  to  Bel  Air. 
Besides,  I  know  Margaret  at  a  drugstore 
magazine  stand.  She  never  leaves  a  dis- 
play without  ten  to  twenty  periodicals 
under  her  arm.  Sometimes  she  reads  every 
one  from  cover  to  cover — she's  a  quick 
study.  Sometimes  she  can't  find  what  she 
wants.  The  next  day — twenty  more  maga- 
zines. I'll  bet  she  could  win  an  Oscar  for 
the  best  performance,  annually,  in  the 
bound-paper  chase. 

"When  I  reached  the  house  I  found  Elea- 
nor— that's  Margaret's  mother,  but  every- 
one calls  her  Eleanor,  including  her  chil- 
dren and  her  granddaughter — and  Aunt 
Mag,  who  is  Eleanor's  sister.  Aunt  Mag 
is  famous  in  her  own  right.  She  was  the 
famous  Margaret  Young  in  the  Terrific 
Twenties,  and  she  introduced  such  songs 
as  'O,  By  Jingo'  and  'Hard-hearted  Han- 
nah.' They  let  me  in  on  the  fact  that 
Margaret  was  scheduled  to  leave  by  air 
that  afternoon  to  start  a  series  of  sing- 
ing engagements  in  the  South. 

"They  said  that,  first,  we'd  have  dinner. 
Margaret,  still  tailed  by  a  delighted  queue, 
arrived  thirty  minutes  later  and  we  all  sat 
down.  All,  that  is,  except  Barbara.  She 
would  be  along  in  a  moment,  Willie  May 
said.  Willie  May  has  been  with  the  Whit- 
ings for  years,  and  her  word  is  law. 

"At  the  table,  there  were  the  Whitings — 
Eleanor,  Aunt  Mag,  Margaret  and  her 
beautiful  little  daughter,  Debbie  Busch — a 
chap  from  Margaret's  agency,  an  attorney, 
a  photographer,  and  a  beau  of  Mar- 
garet's. Everyone  talked  at  once.  Every- 
one seemed  to  be  getting  the  full  import 
— all  except  me.  I  missed  a  couple  of  cues. 

"After  a  few  moments,  Margaret  left  the 
table,  returned  with  a  stack  of  numbers, 
passed  them  around  the  table.  She  said 
that  everyone  was  to  take  turns  talking, 
and  we'd  have  to  wait  until  our  number 
was  up  before  we  could  voice  an  opinion. 
Order  was  maintained  for  all  of  five  to 
seven  minutes. 

"Dinner  over,  the  photographer  began 
to  set  up  his  camera.  Also,  Margaret's 
masseuse  arrived.  Margaret  stretched  out 
on  the  floor  in  blouse  and  slacks  while  the 
masseuse  went  to  work.  The  photographer 
found  one  of  the  auxiliary  lights  too 
bright;  he  shrouded .  it  by  placing  his 
pocket  handkerchief  over  the  bulb.  He  got 
into  position,  ready  to  shoot. 

"About  this  time  a  delivery  man  arrived, 
carrying  a  portable  radio  which  Margaret 
had  had  repaired.  At  first,  she  must  have 
planned  to  take  it  on  her  trip.  In  any  case. 


Radio's  "My  True  Story"  has  helped 
countless  listeners  find  real  happiness.  For 
this  drama-packed  program  deals  with 
real  people — people  like  you,  your  neighbors, 
your  own  loved  ones.  When  you  hear  how 
they  overcome  life's  most  difficult  emotional 
problems,  it  may  help  you,  too,  to  find  the 
happiness  you  long  for.  So  listen  to  each 
of  these  stirring  stories — taken  right  from 
the  files  of  "True  Story  Magazine". 


TUNE  IN 


?? 


MY  TRUE  STORY 


American  Broadcasting  Stations 


this  was  an  emergency  delivery.  The 
masseuse  studied  the  delivery  man  as  he 
stood  dejectedly  at  the  door,  waiting  for 
Margaret  to  sign  his  delivery  ticket.  The 
masseuse  started  to  work  on  the  muscles 
at  the  back  of  the  man's  neck.  'You  look 
tired,'  she  said.  'I  can  fix  you  up  in  just 
a  few  minutes.' 

"All  this  time,  you  must  remember, 
everyone  is  talking  at  once,  the  radio  is 
playing,  the  telephone  is  ringing,  Debbie 
is  leading  her  dachshund  around  on  a 
white  leash.  Margaret  says,  'Don't  lose 
that  leash,  darling.  Mother  had  to  sing 
two  quick  choruses  in  order  to  buy  it.' 

"At  this  point,  someone  tilts  a  sensitive 
nose  and  says,  'Something's  burning.'  How 
true.  The  photographer's  handkerchief  is 
blazing  away  merrily.  Someone  runs  for 
a  glass  of  water.  Someone  else — one  of  the 
men — pulls  off  his  jacket  and  smothers  the 
flame.  When  the  water  is  brought  in,  Mar- 
garet drinks'  it. 

"By  this  time,  the  delivery  man  has  had 
his  massage.  'I've  had  a  headache  for  three 
days,  but  it's  gone  now,'  he  tells  the  mas- 
seuse. Everyone  is  happy.  Everyone  tells 
the  delivery  man  goodbye,  and  the  photo- 
graphic sitting  is  about  to  continue  when 
Barbara,  in  sweater,  pedal  pushers,  and  a 
doleful  expression,  appears  iii  the  doorway. 
Lifting  her  arms  to  shoulder  height  in  a 
highly  dramatic  bit  of  body  pantomime, 
she  announces,  'I  have  been  walking  on  the 
beach.'  With  that  she  goes  up  the  stairs — 

"Someone  reminds  Margaret  that  she  is 
catching  a  plane,  just  as  a  song  plugger 
arrives.  He  says  he  is  starved,  would  Willie 
May  fix  him  a  sandwich,  and  settles  at 
the  piano  where  he  pounds  out  a  series  of 
tunes.  Margaret  says  that  first  one  has 
something,  could  he  play  it  again,  change 
the  key,  and  slow  it  down? 

"Margaret's  mother  says  Margaret  has 
to  catch  a  plane  and,  incidentally — since 
Margaret  insists  upon  flying — she  (Mrs. 
Whiting)  has  insured  Margaret's  life  for 
fifty  thousand  dollars.  She  explains  that 
such  insurance  is  lucky,  because  no  com- 
pany wants  to  pay  out  that  kind  of  money, 
so  naturally  the  flight  will  be  made  with- 
out incident. 

"Margaret  rushes  upstairs,  changes  her 
clothes,  and  comes  down  airport-ready — 
she  thinks.  WiUie  May  emerges  from  the 
kitchen  and  announces  that  Margaret  is 
not  to  leave  the  house  in  that  dress.  Mar- 
garet says  she  doesn't  have  time  to  change, 
she's  going  to  miss  the  plane.  'Then  you'll 
just  have  to  miss  the  plane,'  Willie  May 
asserts  positively,  'because,  if  you  don't 
change  that  dress,  I'm  going  to  put  a  bul- 
let through  your  head — and  that's  a  fact.' 

"Margaret  shrugs,  laughs,  and  goes  back 
upstairs.  There  is  a  mighty  crash  from  the 
courtyard,  where  there  are  now  as  many 
cars  parked  as  Ciro's  lot  handles  on  a 
Saturday  night.  Eleanor,  Margaret's 
mother,  has  backed  into  someone's  auto 
and  has  torn  off  the  bumper.  'Send  for 
someone  to  fix  it,'  she  calls.  'I  want  to  see 
Margaret's  plane  take  off.' 

"At  this  point  it  is  extremely  unlikely 
that  Margaret  is  going  anywhere.  A  singer 
whom  she  knows  very  well,  and  with 
whom  she  has  worked  for  years,  has  ar- 
rived with  his  wife  and  their  four  children. 
Margaret  is  chatting  as  if  she  had  just  ar- 
rived for  a  leisurely  weekend. 

"And  so,  I  fade  into  the  sunset.  I  am 
certain  that  Margaret  will  catch  her  plane, 
that  someone  will  show  up  to  repair  the 
damaged  car,  that  Willie  May  will  be 
making  sandwiches  periodically  until  mid- 
night, that  God's  in  his  heaven  and  all's 
right  with  the  Whitings." 

He  considered  his  story  for  a  moment 
of  exhausted  but  extreme  pleasure.  "Yeah 
— that's  the  truest  thing  you  can  say  about 
them,"  he  announced.  "All's  right  with  the 
Whitings  " 


Happy,  Happy  Time 

(Continued  jrovn,  page  41) 

The  lucky  accident  was  a  Sunday  after- 
noon drive  which  a  neighbor  invited  them 
to  share.  (The  O'Neills  have  no  car.)  Patti 
held  back.  "I  shudder,"  she  says,  "when 
I  think  how  close  I  came  to  refusing  to 
go."  But  Mrs.  O'Neill  convinced  her  it 
would  be  nice  to  get  out  in  the  country. 

Their  destination  was  the  home  of  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Jerry  Urgo  in  Bergenfield,  New 
Jersey,  whom  the  O'Neills  met  that  day  for 
the  first  time.  While  the  women  visited 
in  the  living  room,  Jerry — who  is  chief 
of  operations  for  the  CBS  photo  studio — 
was  stretched  lazily  in  a  hammock  under 
the  trees,  and  no  more  incUned  than  the 
next  man  to  work  on  his  day  off.  But 
seeing  Patti,  then  ten  years  old,  play  with 
his  daughter,  Maria,  fascinated  him.  "Her 
every  movement  was  graceful,"  he  says. 
"I  finally  asked  if  she  would  like  me  to 
take  her  picture." 

Jerry  still  holds  a  clear  memory  of  her 
reply.  She  tossed  back  her  braids,  peered 
up  through  her  bangs  and  said  seriously, 
"Oh,  no.  I  don't  think  I  photograph  well." 

Jerry  then  went  to  talk  to  Mrs.  O'Neill. 
"I  asked  her  if  she  had  ever  thought  of 
making  Patti  a  model.  She  laughed  at  the 
idea.  That  suited  me,  because  I've  seen 
enough  exploitation  of  children  in  this 
business  so  that  I  wanted  nothing  to  do 
with  a  mother  who  was  out  to  make 
money  on  a  kid.  But  we  talked  for  a  while, 
and  I  suggested  she  bring  Patti  to  the 
studio.  We'd  see  how  she  looked  through 
the  lens  and  imder  the  lights." 

To  Patti,  he  gave  simple  instructions  for 
practice:  "Stand  in  front  of  a  mirror  and 
watch  the  way  you  move.  Try  to  be  grace- 
ful.  But   really   find   out   how   you   look." 

His  test  shots  turned  out  magnificently. 
So  magnificently  that  those  pictures,  com- 
bined with  the  O'Neill  stick-to-it  spirit, 
not  only  launched  the  child  as  a  model 
but  also  carried  her  over  the  kind  of  pit- 
fall which  has  brought  tragedy  to  many 
a  youngster. 

First  on  the  list  of  model  agencies  which 
Jerry  gave  them,  when  instructing  them 
how  to  make  the  rounds,  was  a  well-known 
firm.  The  interviewer  accepted  a  set  of 
pictures,  but  said  they  would  have  to  call 
back  to  learn  whether  the  manager  would 
put  Patti  on  their  roster. 

Says  Patti,  "I  didn't  want  to  come  down- 
town again  the  next  day,  so  we  went 
on  to  the  next  one." 

That  one  happened  to  be  operated  by  a 
man  who  last  year  was  indicted  for  fraud. 
Although  evidence  at  his  trial  proved  he 
was  far  more  intent  on  extracting  money 
from  mothers  than  he  was  in  finding  book- 
ings for  their  children,  he  was  released 
when  examination  of  his  contracts  showed 
that  —  regardless  of  what  the  mothers 
thought  he  promised — he  actually  had 
agreed  only  to  include  a  photograph  in  his 
catalog. 

But  his  office  was  luxurious.  Small  Patti 
was  impressed:  "There  were  knee-deep 
rugs  and  low  lights.  Besides,  the  reception- 
ist agreed  right  away  to  accept  me.  I  kept 
whispering  to  Mother  that  this  was  the 
one  I  wanted." 

The  charge  was  fifty  dollars.  "By  the 
next  day,"  says  Mrs.  O'Neill,  "I  regretted 
it.  The  well-known  agency  phoned  to  say 
they  would  accept  Patti.  Being  green  as 
grass,  I  said  that  was  fine,  and  that  we'd 
like  to  work  through  both.  They  explained 
that  wasn't  ethical  and  that  I  was  boiind 
by  the  other  contract. 

"My  friends  were  sure  I  had  lost  my 
money.  I  remember  thinking  that  I  didn't 
really  care  whether  Patti  turned  into  a 
model  or  not — but  also  praying   that  she 


OPPORTUNITIES 


FOR  EVERYBODY 


Publisher's  ClaMified  Department  (Trademark) 


forc/ossified  advert'ning  rales,  write  fo  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  C/infon  Street,  Chicago  6  (Aug.- Worn.)      5 


FEMALE  HELP  WANTED     

bEMOIMSTRATORS— $25-$40  Daily.  Our  lingerie,  apparel 
style  showings  are  sensation  of  party  plan  selling.  Isabel 
Sharrow  made  $258 — 11  days,  sparetime!  Free  Outfit.  Beeline 

Fashions,  Bensenville,  327  Illinois. 

SEW  FOR  BIG  Moneyl  Women  18-60  wanted.  Earn  to  $100 
weekly.  Experience  unnecessary.  Free  placement  service. 
Factory  secrets,  methods.  Complete  information.  Write  Gar- 
ment Trades,  6411-B  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Cali- 
fornia;  

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  UP  to  $5  hour  demonstra- 
ting Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood. 
Free  Samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  Dept. 

P-85,  Glendale,  Calif. 

MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Com- 
plete   display    free.    Rush    name.    Harford,    Dept.    P-2359, 

Cincinnati  25,  Ohio. 

HOME  WORKERS  WANTEDI  Self  employment  home 
jobs  listed.  $20-$50  weekly  possible.  No  experience  neces- 

sary.  Maxwell,  Dept.  B-8,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.   Crown    Industries,  7159-B 

Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY— Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B. 
Dunbar,  Dept.  G8,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
WOMEN.  SEW  READY-Cut  Wrap-A-Round  spare  time- 
profitable.  Dept.  D,  Hollywood  Mfg.  Co.,  Hollywood  46,  Calif. 
HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
pay.    Experience   unnecessary.   California   Handicrafts,    Los 

Angeles  46,  Calif. 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  I  No  Canvassing!  $40  Weekly  possible! 
Send   stamped  addressed   envelope.   Baby  Sfioes,  Warsaw, 

Indiana.     

ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOME  sewing  Baby  Shoes.  Details  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville  2,  Wisconsin. 

$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses,    tasy.    Write,    Studio 

Company,  Greenville  7,  Penna. ^^_ 

Fascinating   piece  work  at  Home!  No  selling!  We 

pay  you  I  Truart,  Box  438,  Pasadena,  California. 

OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

t200  FOR  YOUR  child's  photo  (all  ages)  if  used  by  advertisers, 
end  one  small  photo  for  approval.  Print  child's  and  parent's 
name -address  on  back.  Photo  returned.  No  obligation.  Spot- 

lite,  5880-HPW  Hollywood,  Hollywood  28,  California. 

IN  SPARE  TIME  at  home,  complete  high  school  with  58- 
year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma.  In- 
formation booklet  free.  American  School,  Dept.  ZC74,  Drexel 

at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Wanted  Items  from  your  News- 
paper for  Publishers.  Some  worth  up  to  $10.00  Each!!  Write 
for  information.  Newscraft  Publishers,  7-PW,  Columbus  5, 

Ohio. 

HOME  SEWERS!  PRE-CUT  Materials  furnished.  You  sew 
and  return.  No  selling.  Part,  full  time.  Ron-SonrDept.  PW8, 

16351  Euclid,  Cleveland  12,  Ohio. 

MATERNilTY  STYLES-FREE  Catalog  (Plain  Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers;  $2.98  to  $22,98.  Crawford's, 

Dept.  141,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

Earn  EXTRA  MONEY  Weekly  Mailing  Display  Folders. 
Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Allen  Company,  Warsaw 

1,  Indiana. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  mailing  advertising  literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

SEND    OUT    POSTCARDS.   Cash    daily.    Write    Box    174, 

Belmont,  Mass. 

Profitable  home  business.  Make  Fast-selling  che- 
nille monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva.  Bohemia  32,  N.  Y. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Di- 
ploma.   Information    booklet  free.   American   School,    Dept. 

XC74,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37.  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144-W. 

Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

HOME  STUDY   TRAINING 

PHYSICAL  THERAPY  PAYS  Big.  Learn  at  home.  Free  Cata- 
log.  National  Institute,  Desk  6,  159  East  Ontario,  Chicago  11. 

ADDITIONAL  INCOME 

EARN  READY  CASH  doing  mailing  work.  No  experience 
needed.  F.  Wilson  Business  Service,  2875  Glendale  Blvd., 
Los  Angeles  39,  Calif. 


OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

$40.00  CERTAIN  LINCOLN  Pennies.  Indianheads  $60.00. 
Others  $5.00— $3,000.00.  Three  Illustrated  Guarantee  Buy- 
ing— Selling  Catalogues,  complete  Allcoin  Information — send 
$1.00  Worthycoin  Corporation  (K-460-C),  Boston  8,  Mass. 
WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue   25c.   Magnacoins,    Box  61-DK,   Whitestone   57, 

New  York. . 

MONEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 


GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid  Babbitt  $4165.00  in 
few  weeks.  Free  Book.  Washington  Mushroom  Ind.,  Dept. 
164,  2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle,  Wash. 


BIG  EARNING  OPPORTUNITY  your  home  neighborhood, 

town.  Exquisite  Fashion  Party  Plan  guarantees  territory  for 

small  investment.  Free  information.  Box  282,  Conshohocken, 

Pennsylvania. 

60%    PROFIT   COSMETICS.    $25   day    up.    Hire    others. 

Samples,    details.   Studio   Girl-Hollywood,   Glendale,   Calif. 

Dept.  P-85b. 

STUFFING-MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how.    Dept.    G-8,    Education    Publishers,    4043    St.    Clair, 

Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

Guaranteed  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commis- 
sions!   Everything  Furnished!  Hirsch's,  1301-0  Hoe,   New 

York  City  59. 

$25  WEEK  POSSIBLE,  sparetime,  at  home,  preparing  mail 

for  advertisers.  Te-Co,  Box  946,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

SIZEABLE  COMMISSION.  SEND  our  postcards  ouL  In- 
quire: Pioneer,  Box  13,  Wakefield,  Mass. 
$35    WEEKLY    PREPARING    envelopes.    Instructions    $1. 

Refundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

EARN   SPARE  TIME  cash   mailing  advertising   literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

EARN  MONEY  AT  Home!  Must  Have  good  Handwriting. 

Write  for  Details.  Atlas,  Box  188-A,  Melrose,  Mass. 

SEND    OUT   POSTCARDS.   Cash   daily.   Write    Box   174, 

Belmont,  Mass. 

PERSONAL 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men 
and  women.Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  endors- 
ers. Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details  free  in 
plain   envelope.   Give   occupation.   State   Finance   Co.,   323 

Securities  BIdg.,  Dept.  H-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  discovery!  Free 
Trial   Offer.  Write   Pixacol,   Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,   Ohio. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-16, 
Chicago  32,  Illinois. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED 

BIG  MONEY  SELLING  Sweet  Georgia  Brown  Cosmetics. 
Colored  People  Buy  Fast.  Valmor,  2451  S.  Michigan,  Chicago 
16,  in. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

CALLING  ALL  WOMEN!  Sell  new  Tall  Style  Christmas 
Card  assortments.  Extra  money  spare  time.  Profits  to  100%. 
Bonus.  Feature  boxes  on  approval.  77  free  samples  Christmas 
Personals,  Stationery.  New  England  Art  Publishers,  North 
Abington  833-B,  Mass. 

HELP  WANTED 

FOREIGN-U.S.  EMPLOYMENT.  If  interested  in  State- 
side &  Foreign  projects  write.  High  Pay.  Stamped  self- 
addressed  envelope  appreciated.  Job  Information,  Dept.  11 G, 

Waseca,  Minn. 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  Types.  Foreign,  USA.  Chance  to 
travel.  Many  benefits.  Application  Forms.  Free  Information. 
Write  Dept.  73K.  National  Employment  Information,  1020 
Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

$200  WEEKLY  CLEANING  Venetian  Blinds.  Free  book. 
Burtt,  2434BR,  Wichita  13,  Kansas.     - 

MAIL  ORDER  CATALOGS 

FREE  FALL  CATALOG— Aldens  604  page  1956  Fashion 
Guide!  All  family,  home  needs.  Lowest  prices,  money-back 
satisfaction  guaranteed!  Send  for  Free  Catalog  today. 
Aldens,  Dept.  451,  Box  8340A,  Chicago  80. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  Canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 
possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 


HANDS  TIED?  ILBLONPESI 


)^l  —because  you  lack  a 
HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA 

•  You  can  qualify  for  an  American  School 
Diploma  in  spare  time  at  home!  If  you  have 
left  school,  write  or  mail  coupon  for  FREE 
booklet  that  tells  how.  No  obligation  of  any 
kind. 
^ OUR  58TH  YEAR 

I  AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.  VC53 

j  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois 

I  Please  send  FREE  High  School  booklet. 
I 

I   Name 

I 

I   Address 

I   City  &  State 

I       Canadian  Residents:  Complete  Canadian  Conrse  Available. 
1       Write  American  School,  1610  Sherbrooke  St.  West.  Montreal. 


You  gm  Your 
^1,000,000 
HAIR  this 
Special 
Shampoo 

If  you  don't  already  know  it,  the  delicate  texture  of  blonde 
hair  needs  the  gentle  caress  of  a  SPECIAL  "creamy"  shampoo! 
That's  why  millions  of  blondes  insist  on  BLONDEX.  Now, 
without  tints,  rinses  or  that  ugly  bleached  look,  you  can  give  ' 

your  hair  the  shining,  radiant  "million-dollar"  color  that  men  V 

love!  Blondex  removes  the  dingy  film  that  makes  hair  dark  R 

and  old-looking,  washes  it  shades  lighter  and  brighter  in 
II  easy  minutes  at  home.  Safe  for  children's  hair,  too.  Get 
BLONDEX  today  at  lOc,  drug  or  department  stores. 


would  have  enough  bookings  so  that  we'd 
get  our  fifty  dollars  back." 

Their  luck  was  better  than  that  of  many 
other  clients  of  this  agency.  Jerry  Urgo's 
superlative  photographs  may  have  made 
the  difference.  Says  Mrs.  O'Neill,  "Later 
we  encountered  plenty  of  illustrators  who 
refused  to  book  through  that  agent.  Most- 
ly, I  guess,  he  did  just  collect  commissions, 
but  he  was  responsible  for  getting  Patti 
her   first   assignments." 

Number-one  assignment  was  for  one  of 
the  big  mail-order  catalogs.  "That  was  a 
weird  experience.  The  photographers, 
really  a  large  and  reputable  firm,  had  just 
moved  to  an  old  mansion  and  its  adjacent 
garage.  The  place  looked  like  a  haunted 
house.  We  were  scared  to  go  in — and  lost 
after  we  did  enter.  But  we  just  kept  daring 
each  other  to  open  one  more  door  until  we 
stumbled  into  the  big  room,  which  turned 
out  to  be  a  beautifully  equipped  studio." 

With  the  ice  broken,  the  O'Neills  took 
the  initiative.  They  made  the  rounds  of 
the  studios  themselves.  The  Urgo  photo- 
graphs opened  doors,  and  the  O'Neills'  own 
charm  kept  them  open. 

When  she  was  twelve,  Patti  transferred 

to    Professional     Children's     School.     Her 

^         report   at  the   end   of   the   first   day   was: 

"Mother,  these  kids  are  too  smart  for  me. 

They  are  'way  ahead  of  me." 

Shortly,  too,  Patti  found  that  some  child 
actors  save  all  their  lovableness  for  the 
stage.  When  a  little  girl  boasted  of  an 
important  assignment,  Patti  naturally 
asked  where  it  was.  "That,"  said  the 
moppet,  elevating  her  nose  several  inches, 
"is  a  professional  secret." 

Wisely,  Mrs.  O'Neill  advised  the  snubbed 
Patti:  "For  a  while,  you'd  better  keep 
your  mouth  shut  and  your  ears  open."  The 
advice  worked.  Soon  Patti  loved  the  school. 
"The  kids  are  fun  and  the  teachers  are 
wonderful.  I  think,  too,  that  we  work 
harder  and  learn  faster  than  in  public 
school.  We  take  more  responsibility." 

A  typical  school  day  for  Patti  began 
when  her  mother  called  her  at  7:45  A.M. 
Sleepy-eyed,  she  washed  her  face  and 
headed  for  the  kitchen  to  ask,  "What's  in 
the   refrigerator?" 

"She's  a  weird  one,  this  kid,"  says  Mrs. 
O'Neill  with  a  laugh.  "She  doesn't  want 
cereal,   she   wants   sandwiches." 

Back  upstairs,  Patti  put  on  the  lipstick, 
peering  a  little  near-sightedly  into  a  mir- 
ror which  has  the  usual  schoolgirl  me- 
mentoes thrust  between  glass  and  frame. 
There  are  matchbooks,  dance  invitations 
and  a  cherished  note  from  Mrs.  Macdonald 


Carey  thanking  Patti  for  the  gift  she  sent 
to  the  Careys'  new  baby. 

Patti  dressed  carefully.  "None  of  us 
could  risk  being  sloppy,"  she  says.  "A  call 
might  come  in  at  school.  None  of  us  wore 
socks  and  flats.  I  think,  too,  our  skirts 
were  shorter  than  a  lot  of  girls  wear  to 
public  school.  They're  more  becoming." 

Patti's  own  wardrobe  is  simple,  but 
ample.  She  likes  crinolines  and  full  skirts 
— she  has  about  a  dozen.  Her  nineteen 
long-sleeved  blouses  and  twenty  short- 
sleeved  blouses  are  racked  in  rotation,  so 
that  she  never  wears  the  same  one  two 
days  in  succession.  She  has  six  wool 
dresses,  some  summer  cottons  and  four 
formals.  She  wears  plain  pumps  with 
baby  spike  heels — but  keeps  her  bedroom 
slippers  on  until  she  is  ready  to  leave  the 
house.  Her  mother's  parting  injunction  is 
usually:    "Put   your    shoes    on." 

Patti  used  her  subway  riding  time  to 
catch  up  on  her  required  reading.  So  that 
she  could  avoid  toting  a  ton  of  stuff  to 
an  assignment,  she  had  two  sets  of  books, 
one  kept  at  school,  the  other  at  home.  She 
was  in  class  from  9:45  A.M.  to  1:00  P.M. 
She  endeavored  to  return  home  and  have 
her  homework  done  by  5:30  P.M.  "But 
some  days  I  spent  too  much  time  in  the 
coffee  shop,  talking  to  the  kids." 

Patti  still  helps  get  dinner — "I  like  to 
eat  and  I  like  to  cook" — and  is  responsible 
for  the  dishes.  After  watching  TV,  she 
spends  a  little  telephone  time  talking  to 
friends,  then  is  in  bed  by  eleven. 

No  time  was  allotted  for  the  usual  extra- 
curricular activities.  "The  school  cut  them 
out.  We  all  had  too  many  work  assign- 
ments, and  that's  what  we  cared  about." 
Dates   are   still   restricted   to   weekends. 

She  usually  sees  at  least  one  Broadway 
play  a  week.  "That's  both  study  and  fun. 
I'm  lucky.  The  boy  across  the  street, 
Ronny  Lee,  is  an  actor,  too,  so  we  come 
home  together.  We  buy  the  cheapest  seats 
in  the  theater.  We  can  hear  just  as  well 
and  we  watch  through  opera  glasses." 

There  have  been  a  number  of  extra - 
special  dates,  too,  such  as  a  football  game 
at  Yale  and  the  inter-fraternity  weekend 
at  Pennsylvania.  Biggest  of  all,  of  course, 
was  Patti's  own  senior  prom.  For  it,  she 
got  "the  prettiest  formal  yet — all  white 
nylon  tulle,  soft  as  chiffon.  The  prom  was 
at  the  Hotel  Delmonico.  We  had  just  a 
perfect  time." 

Two  major  milestones,  so  far,  are  her 
parts  in  The  Secret  Storm  ("I  hope,  I  hope, 
I  hope  they  keep  me  in  the  script")  and 
her  six-month  stint  on  Broadway  in  "Anni- 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


78 


...  is  offered  for  Informatron  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every  Wednesday  ISight  on  MUTUAL  Stations 


"The  Dentist  Mixed  His  Own  Knockout  Pills" — until  one 
lady  patient  was  found  strangled.  Read  this  amazing 
Minneapolis  case  in  August  TRUE  DETECTIVE  MAGAZINE 
at  newsstands  now. 


versary  Waltz"   ("I  grew  up  on  that  show"). 

The  play's  break-in  tour  was  her  first 
time  away  from  home.  "My  roommate  was 
Mary  Lee  Deering.  Her  father  was  my  tap- 
dancing  teacher.  We  were  both  used  to 
having  our  mothers  wash  our  socks  and 
lingerie  and  get  our  clothes  ready.  It  did 
us  good  to  take  care  of  ourselves." 

Hotel  living  had  lost  its  sheen  for  both 
girls  by  the  time  the  show  reached  Phila- 
delphia, so  they  found  a  little  housekeeping 
apartment.  Macdonald  Carey,  male  star  of 
the  show,  was  their  second  dinner  guest, 

"We  heard  him  say  he  was  tired  of 
restaurants,"  Patti  explains.  "We  had  al- 
ready made  dinner  for  a  couple  of  the  kids 
and  the  roast  beef  turned  out  pretty  well, 
even  if  we  did  have  to  prop  the  oven  door 
shut  with  a  chair.  We  planned  a  meat 
loaf  for  our  big  dinner.  But,  when  I  got 
home,  I  discovered  the  refrigerator  didn't 
work  too  well  and  the  meat  had  spoiled. 
Honestly,  I  could  have  cried.  I  didn't  know 
what  to  do.  But  we  did  have  some  liver, 
because  Mary  Lee  had  said  it  was  good 
for  us.  I  can't  teU  you  how  we  worried 
about  whether  Mr.  Carey  would  like  it. 
But  he  assured  us  he  just  loved  liver,  so 
we  all  had  a  real  good  time." 

Wally  Cox,  too,  holds  a  special  place  in 
Patti's  heart.  "Mr.  Cox  was  just  wonderful. 
While  we  were  waiting  around  during  Mr. 
Peepers'  rehearsals,  he  would  sit  and  talk 
with  the  kids  in  the  show  and  he'd  play 
games  with  us.  We  all  just  loved  him." 

Haila  Stoddard  of  The  Secret  Storm  has 
won  Patti's  genuine  respect.  "I  learn  so 
much  just  watching  her.  She's  such  a  fine 
actress."  Patti  is  always  most  careful  to 
address  stars,  staff  and  all  elders  by  the 
proper  "Mr."  or  "Miss."  As  she  says,  "I 
just  don't  think  it  is  right  for  us  kids  to 
call  someone  like  that  by  a  first  name." 

Her  courtesy  is  sincere  and  genuine, 
and  it  also  is  well-noted.  While  the  cam- 
eras approve  her  face  and  figure,  directors 
and  producers  approve  her  manners.  Again, 
Jerry  Urgo  admits  to  some  early  coaching. 
"Long  ago,"  he  says,  "I  told  her,  'Now, 
don't  turn  into  a  snob  like  some  of  these 
brats  around  show  business.'  But  I  didn't 
really  need  to.  Patti  is  just  as  sweet  and 
modest  today  as  she  was  when  she  told  me, 
at  ten,  that  she  didn't  photograph  well." 

Dick  Dunn,  producer  of  The  Secret 
Storm,  comments  on  her  maturity  as  well 
as  her  manners.  "Her  poise  was  the  first 
thing  which  struck  me.  Warren  Berlinger, 
who  plays  Jerry  Ames,  read  opposite  her 
at  the  audition.  Afterwards,  I  learned  that 
Patti  and  Warren  were  good  friends,  but 
do  you  think  either  of  those  kids  let  on? 
We  didn't  hear  a  giggle  out  of  either  of 
them.  It  just  showed  in  the  warm  and  un- 
derstanding way  they  played  their  scenes." 

For  the  future,  Patti  hopes  "to  keep  on 
working,  just  like  I'm  doing  now."  Her 
mother  defines  it  a  little  more  closely.  "I 
hope  she  gets  some  really  big  part.  I  don't 
necessarily  mean  that  she  becomes  a  star. 
You  don't  have  to  be  a  star  to  be  a 
success." 

And  the  experts?  The  production  people 
who  know  her  best  are  too  busy  to  indulge 
in  wild  predictions,  but  it  is  significant 
that  they  use  certain  phrases  in  describing 
her:  "She's  a  lady."  "She  is  competent." 
"She  knows  what  she  is  doing"  "She  has 
charm,  beauty,  focus." 

A  few  years  ago,  some  of  those  same 
people  were  using  the  same  phrases  to 
describe  two  other  young  actresses.  Their 
names  were  Grace  Kelly  and  Eva  Marie 
Saint.  This  year  both  won  Academy 
Awards. 

No  one  knows  yet  whether  there's  an 
"Oscar"  in  Patti's  future.  But  she's  found 
her  own  rewards  on  TV.  And,  at  eighteen, 
it's  such  a  happy,  happy  time  to  be  alive 
and  glowing— and  knowing  that  "the  best 
is  yet  to  be." 


The  Heart  Knows  Best 

(Continued  from  page  49) 
lost  on  Paul.  In  his  mind's  eye,  he  was 
already  seeing  Cincinnati's  towering  hills, 
the  busy  restaiu-ant  where  the  town's  tele- 
vision and  newspaper  people  exchange 
gossip  and,  most  of  all,  the  sweep  of  a 
la'ATi  leading  to  a  house  he  had  yet  to  find. 

"It's  crazy,"  he  said  with  a  grin.  "Leav- 
ing New  York  is  the  thing  you  just  don't 
do.  If  you  have  that  love  of  broadcasting 
which  keeps  you  in  this  hectic  business,  it 
doesn't  matter  whether  you're  at  a  250- 
watt  'coffee  jwt'  out  in  Nebraska — or  at  a 
substantial  high-power  station  in  a  big  city 
— New  York  is  your  magnet.  There's  some- 
thing inside  you  which  makes  you  want  to 
find  out  whether  you  can  measure  up  to 
the  big-time." 

Paul  had  found  his  personal  answer  to 
that  question.  The  little  pantomime  show 
which  he  had  started  during  early  TV  days 
in  Cincinnati — "because  I  was  a  radio  disc 
jockey  and  didn't  have  the  talent  to  do 
anything  else  on  television" — had  achieved 
network  status  and  held  it,  long  before  it 
was  brought  to  New  York.  When,  at  the 
Du  Mont  network,  sweeping  policy  changes 
began  taking  other  live  shows  off  the  air 
in  favor  of  film,  new  doors  started  opening 
for  Paul.  Another  network  invited  nego- 
tiations. Profitable  opportiinities  to  free- 
lance were  also  presented.  It  was  apparent 
that,  whatever  might  happen  at  Du  Mont, 
New  York  had  a  place  for  a  man  with 
Dixon's  record  for  entertaining. 

"I'm  turning  down  a  million  dollars 
worth  of  billing,"  Paul  confided.  "My 
reason  is  simple.  We  do  not  like  this  kind 
of  living — and,  above  everything  else,  I 
want  my  wife  and  children  to  be  happy. 
Perhaps  I  was  able  to  take  this  course  be- 
cause I  actually  had  made  my  decision 
long  ago.  You  remember  the  way  we  left 
Chicago." 

1  hat  leave-taking  had  also  occurred  at 
a  crucial  time  in  Paul's  career.  The  ambi- 
tious young  man,  together  with  his  new 
bride,  Marge,  had  come  from  Iowa  on  the 
strength  of  a  dream  and  a  hope.  They  had 
a  rickety  car  and  money  enough  to  buy 
gasoline  to  drive  to  Chicago.  While  Marge 
worked  as  a  sales  clerk  in  a  department- 
store  basement,  Paul  pounded  the  audition 
roimds.  At  last  he  landed  a  job  at  a  small 
radio  station  where  recorded  music  and 
straight-ofl-the-teletype  newscasts  were 
the  chief  commodities.  The  music  proved 
to  be  Paul's  dish.  His  disc-jockeying  drew 
a  following — and  he  had  been  asked  to 
audition  for  one  of  the  town's  choicest 
commercial  plums — when  a  telephone  call 
changed  his  life. 

Mort  Watters,  manager  of  Station  WCPO 
in  Cincinnati,  was  driving  into  Chicago 
when,  via  his  car  radio,  he  first  heard  Paul. 
He  phoned  to  say,  "I  think  you're  the  lous- 
iest newcaster  I  ever  heard,  but  I  like  your 
voice.  How  would  you  like  to  work  for 
me  in  Cincinnati?" 

"I  wiU  never  forget  that  journey,"  Paul 
recalled.  "My  old  flivver  rattled  and  shook. 
The  roof  leaked  and  I  wondered  whether 
it  would  hold  together.  And,  all  the  time, 
I  was  in  a  torment  of  conflict.  Was  I  do- 
ing the  right  thing?  Would  gambling  on 
Chicago  have  meant  more  in  the  end?  And 
I  also  remember  how  the  answer  came  to 
me.  By  going  to  Cincinnati,  I  could  imme- 
diately give  Marge  a  good  home.  She 
would  not  have  to  work.  We  could  start 
thinking  about  a  family." 

It  was  this  habit  of  putting  human  values 
first  which  won  Paul  his  audiences  and, 
in  turn,  the  commercial  success  his  ambi- 
tion demanded. 

"You  can  just  about  measure  what  Cin- 
cmnati  did  for  me,"  Paul  said,  "by  com- 


«..--.ss«issiSS««vgK«A.„  i 


STOP  Pm  INSTANTLY 

OOMBAT  INFECTION 
Pf^OMOTE  HEALING 

^  WITH  STAINLESS 

oampho-Phen/oi/e 


^o  cam-fo-fin-eek)    % 


WHEN  USED  ON 


PIMPLES -ACNE 

CAMPHO-PHENIQUE  HELPS  PREVENT 
THEIR  SPREAD  AND  RE-INFECTION. 

It's  wonderful,  too,  for  fever  blisters,  cold  sores, 
gvun  boils,  cuts  and  scratches,  minor  bums  caxised 
by  book  matches,  hot  cooking  utensils,  hot  water 
or  steam.  Campho-Phenique  relieves  itching  of 
insect  bites,  poison  ivy,  etc.  Just  apply  Campho- 
Phenique  next  time  and  see  how  fast  this  pain- 
reheving  antiseptic  goes  to  work.  And  it  doesn't 
stain  the  skin!  Get  a  bottle  today. 


money 


can  be  yours  for  help- 
ing us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions. 

Write  for  FREE  information.  No  obligation. 

Macfadden   Publications,   205   East  42  St.,   N.   Y. 

17.  N.  t. 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

fmmecfiate 
ftefieff 


A  few  drops  of  OUTGEO®l)ring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  Ingrown  nail.  OUTGBO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  naU,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OUTGRO  is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


CHUBBV 

Club  neiui 


2^ 


Chubby  Club  Member 
Linda  Smith, 
Lebanon,  Penn. 
If  you  ore  not  already  getting  our  Chubby 
Club  News,  fill  out  the  coupon  below,  paste 
it  on  a  2c  government  post  cord  and  moil  it 
today.  You'll  receive  your  Chubby  Club  News 
and  our  picture  book  of  dresses,  coots,  suits, 
hots  -  EVERYTHING  to 
wear  for  girls,  sub-teens 
and  teens  who  are  too 
chubby  to  fit  into  regular 
sizes  , . .  but  who  fit  per- 
fectly into  our  special 
Chubby  Sizes  8'/2-16'/2. 


<£)ryant 


Lane  Bryont,  465  Fifth  Ave.,  N.  Y.  C.  17,  N.  Y. 
Please  send  me  your  Chubby  Club  Nev/s  and 
Fashion  Boole  7M. 

Name .Age 

Street 

City State 


12  NEW  TOWELS  only  n. 00 

LARGE  SIZE!  Assorted  colors.  New!  Not  seconds.  Non- 
woven  COTTON  and  RAYON.  Money-back  guarantee.  Sup- 
ply limited.  Order  Now!  R.  J.  HOMAKERS  CO.,  Dept.  810, 
Box    264,    Farmtngdale.    L.I.,    N.Y. 


D^£O^^S^^FbMVER 


^  Only  by  KILUNG  THE  HAIR  ROOT  can  you  bs  sure  J 
'  UNWANTED  HAIR  is  GONE  FOREVER.  Brings  relief  / 
>cial  happiness.  Do  not  use  our  method  until  J 
F  you  have  read  our  instruction  book  carefully  and  J 
}  learned  to  use  the  MAHLER  METHOD  safely  and  j 
J  efficiently.  Used  successfully  over  fifty  years. 


Send  S'^TODAY  for  booklet  i^ 


MAHLER'S.  INC      Dept  59-X         PROVIDENCE  15,  R.  I. ' 


FRECKLES 


Don't  Add  Up 
To  Beauty! 

Do  freckles  detract  from 
your  beauty?  Start  us- 
ing Stillman's  Freckle 
Cream  today.  It's  dou- 
bly effective — lightens 
the  skin  besides  being  a  beauty  cream. 
Thousands  of  girls  and  women  use  Still- 
man's  Freckle  Cream  for  a  more  radiant, 
softer  skin.  It  helps  men  too!  Try  it 
today — it  adds  up  to  Beauty! 

For  your  copy  of  our  new  1955 
booklet,   "Be  Beautiful,"  write 

THE  STILLMAN  CO. 

Box  27,  AURORA,  ILLINOIS 


79 


paring  the  move  from  Chicago  and  the 
later  move  to  New  York.  When  we  hit  the 
road  last  fall,  we  had  two  kids  and  two 
cars.  Pam  rode  with  Marge  in  the  Pon- 
tiac.  I  took  Greg  in  the  Cadillac." 

The  question  of  living  in  Manhattan  or 
the  suburbs  had  been  settled  in  no  time 
at  all.  Said  Paul,  "When  a  couple  of 
healthy,  lively  kids  have  had  a  half-acre 
back  yard  where  they  can  work  off  their 
energy,  you  can't  shut  them  up  in  an 
apartment." 

Because  an  acquaintance  had  recom- 
mended White  Plains — "where  the  com- 
muting was  good" — Marge  and  Paul  spent 
a  weekend  of  whirlwind  house-hunting. 
The  one  they  chose  was  charming.  There 
were  large  trees,  a  rolling  yard,  even  a 
pond.  It  was  the  kind  of  place  people 
dream  about  and  work  to  buy. 

"That  may  have  been  one  of  the  trou- 
bles," said  Paul.  "We  simply  bought  this 
one.  The  house  which  we  had  dreamed 
of  and  worked  for  was  in  Cincinnati.  That 
was  the  first  we  had  ever  owned,  and  it  is 
surprising  how  lonesome  you  can  get  for 
a  house." 

1  hey  particularly  missed  the  playroom 
Building  it  had  been  a  typical  Dixon  proj- 
ect, where  Paul  started  modestly  and  had 
been  carried  away  by  his  own  enthusiasm. 

It  began  when  he  decided  that  the 
broadcasting  booth — built  while  he  had  a 
heavy  schedule  of  radio  programs — had  to 
go.  The  cleared  space  would  provide  a 
fine  racetrack  for  Pam's  and  Greg's  bikes 
on  rainy  days. 

The  color  they  chose — a  rich  deep  red — 
changed  the  direction  of  the  project.  Said 
Paul,  "1  got  the  notion  it  would  make  a 
fine  rathskeller.  Five  thousand  dollars  la- 
ter, we  had  a  wonderful  playroom — for 
adults." 

The  expenditure  was  justified  when  the 
place  turned  into  that  kind  of  room  where 
a  husband  and  wife  can  find  a  special 
close  companionship. 

"Marge  and  I  would  build  up  a  fire  in 
the  fireplace  and  sit  there  until  it  burned 
low.  We'd  watch  television,  have  friends 
in,  or  just  talk.  So  that  we'd  be  certain 
the  kids  were  all  right  upstairs,  I  in- 
stalled a  two-way  communications  system. 
When  that  was  turned  on,  we  could  even 
hear  them  breathe." 

It  was  this  close  companionship  which 
they  missed  most  in  White  Plains.  "I  had 
heard  about  commuting,"  Paul  said,  "but, 
until  I  tried  it,  I  never  beUeved  people 
could  stand  such  a  routine.  Let  me  tell 
you  what  a  day  was  like. 

"First  of  all,  there  was  the  problem  of 
train  schedules.  We  kept  the  two  cars  so 
that  I  could  drive  one  and  leave  it  at  the 
station  when  I  took  the  8:55.  The  parking 
lot,  it  turned  out,  was  filled  by  8:00.  So 
my  car  sat  in  the  garage  and  Marge  never 
got  away  from  the  wheel  of  hers." 

Marge's  timetable  became  as  formidable 
and  inflexible  as  the  program  schedule  of  a 
television  station.  At  8: 30  A.M.,  she  drove 
Paul  to  the  depot,  then  continued  four 
miles  farther  to  deposit  Pam  at  her  school 
by  nine.  Greg's  nursery  school,  another 
five  miles  away,  opened  at  9:30.  Home  by 
ten,  she  would  have  just  enough  time  to 
do  the  dishes  and  make  the  beds  before 
picking  up  Greg  at  noon. 

Paul  had  turned  his  description  of  it  into 
a  chant.  "Then  it  was  feed  Greg,  put  Greg 
to  bed  for  his  nap,  do  the  dishes,  wake 
and  dress  Greg,  go  get  Pam,  start  dinner, 
get  the  kids  into  their  wraps  and  drive  to 
'  the  depot  to  get  me.  We'd  put  the  car 
away  She  would  serve  dinner,  help  Pam 
with  her  homework,  do  the  dishes,  put 
the  kids  to  bed,  and  then  we'd  both  col- 
lapse. It  was  worse  than  having  threshers 
in  Iowa,  because  this  went  on  every  day. 
Marge,  instead  of  being  wife  and  mother, 
80 


became  Badge  Number  47,  operator  of 
Marge's  Taxi  Service." 

Many  a  suburban  housewife  follows  a 
similar  routine  but,  to  Marge  and  Paul, 
all  the  driving  and  running  was  a  sorry 
contrast  to  their  relaxed  life  in  Cincinnati. 

"I  can't  tell  you  how  much  we  missed 
our  friends,"  said  Paul.  "It  seemed  as 
though  everyone  we  knew  lived  in  New 
Jersey  or  Connecticut,  two  or  three  hours 
away.  When  we  took  on  the  additional 
task  of  getting  a  baby-sitter,  it  became  a 
tougher  production  job  than  putting  a  new 
TV  show  on  the  air.  Do  you  know  how 
many  times  we  managed  to  get  in  to  see 
Broadway  plays?  Twice.  Just  twice.  In 
Cincinnati,  we  automatically  went  to  every 
play.  Our  friends  did,  too,  and  we'd  all 
get  together  after  the  show.  Or,  in  the 
evening,  we'd  drop  in  at  a  friend's  home 
or  they  would  come  to  ours,  and  the  talk 
would  be  good  and  about  many  things. 
Everything  was  close  and  easy.  We  didn't 
know  how  much  we  depended  on  our 
friends  until  we  were  out  of  reach  of 
them." 

A  more  serious  phase  of  their  isolation 
concerned  the  children.  Despite  the  fact 
that  the  White  Plains  living  centered 
around  them,  the  youngsters,  too,  felt  the 
lack  of  familiar  companionship. 

Greg,  in  his  bid  for  the  kind  of  attention 
he  had  had  from  both  playmates  and  par- 
ents, turned  rambunctious.  He  came  in 
from  nursery  school  to  report  to  Marge: 
"A  boy  was  naughty  today.  He  had  to  go 
stand  in  a  corner." 


SOMETHING  FOR  EVERYONE! 

For  lovers  of  drama: 

Pat  Wheel  •  "The  Doctor's  Wife" 
Tod  Andrews  •  "First  Love" 

For  music  lovers: 

Julius  La  Rosa  •  •  •  Lois  Hunt 

For  Western  fans: 

Fess  Parker  •   "Davy  Crockett" 
Gail  Davis  •  "Anr«ie  Oakley" 

Plus  Dennis  James  on  the  cover! 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

September  issue  on  sale  August  ^ 


"What,"  asked  Marge,  "did  the  boy  do?" 

"He  slugged  two  other  boys." 

"What  was  his  name?" 

Greg  grew  evasive.    "I  can't  remember." 

"What  did  he  look  like?" 

Chucking  his  chin  deep  into  the  collar 
of  his  own  flaming  cowboy  plaid,  Greg 
said,  "He  had  a  red  shirt." 

Marge  poured  him  another  glass  of  milk. 
"Greg,  how  long  did  you  have  to  stand  in 
the  corner?" 

"Ten  minutes,"  Greg  admitted,  caught  in 
his  own  story. 

The  next  time  the  situation  was  poten- 
tially dangerous.  "It  was  a  Saturday  morn- 
ing," Paul  recalled.  "I  was  puttering 
around  in  the  yard  when  I  heard  a  yell 
from  the  direction  of  the  pond.  I  ran,  and 
sure  enough  our  Greg  had  dunked  him- 
self. Well,  I  had  no  more  than  got  him 
into  dry  clothes  when  again  I  heard  an 
agonized,  'Daddy!'  This  time  I  found  him 
ten  feet  up  in  a  tree.  His  overall  straps 
were  tangled  in  a  dead  branch  and  he  was 
dangling  halfway  between  heaven  and 
earth.  I  took  him  down,  but  by  that  time 
I  was  so  irked  my  hand  itched  to  swat  him. 
That  was  the  time  Greg  nearly  got  it." 

Six-year-old  Pam's  loneliness  resulted  in 
a  constant  yearning  for  her  former  play- 
mates, the  Kiefer  children  who  had  lived 


only  a  few  doors  away.  Her  every  plan 
would  begin:  "Now,  when  I  see  Connie 
and  Vicki  and  Pat  ..." 

Marge  did  not  realize  how  stubbornly 
the  little  girl  clung  to  her  memories  until 
a  television  repairman,  arriving  to  adjust 
the  antenna,  asked,  "Pam,  how  do  you  like 
your  new  home?" 

Said  Pam,  "This  isn't  my  new  home." 

"What  is  it  then?"  asked  the  man. 

"This,"  said  Pam  emphatically,  "is  just 
my  winter  home.  In  the  spring,  I'm  going 
back  to  Cincinnati." 

Paul  and  Marge  smiled  and  tried  to  talk 
her  out  of  it,  but  the  day  came  when  they 
agreed  with  her. 

"It  was  that  darned  commuting,  of 
course,"  Paul  said.  "I  hated  rushing  for 
the  train,  dashing  up  and  down  subway 
steps,  hunting  for  taxis.  So,  one  morning. 
I  took  the  car." 

The  sun  was  shining,  the  peak  of  the. 
traffic  was  past  and  the  trip  into  New  York 
was  wonderful.  "I  made  up  my  mind  I 
was  going  to  drive  every  day,"  said  Paul. 

By  late  afternoon,  however,  the  weather 
had  changed.  An  icy  rain  slashed  down 
and,  in  rush-hour  traffic,  Paul  inched  along 
in  a  bumper-to-bumper  chain  of  cars.  On- 
coming cars,  in  an  equally  tight  chain, 
glared  blindingly  and  unceasingly. 

"So  I  took  a  wrong  turn,"  said  Paul.  "In 
Cincinnati,  you  go  around  the  block  £ind 
start  over.  Making  a  wrong  turn  on  the 
Triborough  Bridge,  I  wound  up  on  a  three - 
hour  tour  of  Long  Island." 

By  that  time.  Marge  had  gone  through 
all  the  usual  worrying  about  accidents  and 
the  children  had  done  the  usual  whimper- 
ing of  "Where's  Daddy?"  Coaxed  to  eat 
dinner  without  him,  they  trudged  off  to 
bed,  still  protesting  they  were  entitled  to 
wait  for  Paul.  When  at  last  he  burst, 
through  the  door,  announcing,  "I'm  beat,"? 
Marge  could  honestly  say,  "I  am,  too." 

He  wasn't  very  good  company  while 
eating  that  warmed-over  dinner,  Paul  ad- 
mits. 'All  the  time  I  was  thinking:  So 
this  is  New  York  .  .  .  this  separation  from 
my  friends  and  family  .  .  .  these  hours  of 
fighting  traffic  or  listening  to  the  clatter 
of  railroad  wheels  .  .  .  this  constant  run- 
ning and  driving  and  never  having  time 
enough  to  enjoy  my  home.  Finally,  I 
said  to  Marge,  'Is  it  worth  it?' " 

For  a  couple  of  hours,  they  talked  it 
over.  Summer  was  coming  and  the  trains 
and  highways  would  be  even  more 
crowded.  They  would  miss  the  country 
club  where  they  used  to  swim  before  din- 
ner. The  children,  with  no  school  to  oc- 
cupy their  time,  would  miss  their  friends 
even  more. 

Marge  swung  the  balance.  "Remember 
when  Pam  told  the  man,  'This  is  just  my 
winter  home?' " 

Paul  stood  up.  "Maybe  she  has  the  right 
idea.    I'll  see  what  I  can  do  about  it." 

^  o  again  the  furniture  was  crated  and  i 
the  two-car  parade  of  happier  Dixons  j 
headed  down  the  road.  ' 

In  Cincinnati,  WLW  and  the  Crosley 
management  welcomed  Paul  to  their  three 
Ohio  stations.  Friends  and  neighbors  were 
enUsted  to  help  find  a  new  house. 

Pam,  when  told  the  news,  exulted,  "Oh, 
Mummy,  when  I  see  Vicki  I'm  going  to 
hug  her  and  hug  her  and  hug  her." 

Paul,  summing  up  his  own  farewell  to 
New  York  said,  "I  meant  what  I  said  in 
my  letter  of  resignation.  My  wife  and  kids 
come  first.  I  want  them  to  be  happy.  I 
admit  I  still  have  a  taste  for  New  York.  I 
loved  working  here  as  much  as  I  hated  , 
living  here.  If  someone  offers  me  a  show 
which  I  can  fly  in  to  do  once  a  week,  it 
will  suit  me  just  fine.  I'd  rather  commute 
from  Cincinnati  than  from  White  Plains.  1 
guess  I  proved  it.  I'm  still  a  country  boy 
at  heart." 


It's  on  the  Record 

P  (Continued  jrom  page  32) 

back  in  his  leather-upholstered  swivel 
chair,  reading  for  a  second  time  one  letter 
which  was  penned  in  a  meticulous, 
feminine  hand.  It  read:  "Mother  still  likes 
to  tell  her  friends  how  I  used  to  dance 
in  my  crib  while  listening  to  'Make 
Believe  Ballroom.'  I  thought  you'd  like 
to  know,  Mr.  Block,  that  nowadays  another 
18-month-old  baby  can  be  seen  smiling 
and  dancing  in  her  crib  when  our  radio 
has  your  program  tuned  in.  My  own 
baby." 

A  lot  of  loyal  listening  has  been  spelled 
out  in  that  friendly  fan  letter.  Three  whole 
generations  of  it.  For  Martin,  it's  the  kind 
of  letter  that  brings  on  a  searching,  re- 
flective mood.  He  sees  himself,  some 
twenty-three  years  ago,  a  lean-framed, 
dark-haired  chap,  pitting  his  agile  wits 
against  one  of  the  meanest  adversaries  in 
modern  history — the  great  Depression.  He 
remembers  his  personal  war  against  the 
specter  of  hunger  and  unemployment.  He 
recalls  the  arena  where  some  of  his  liveli- 
est battles  took  place — San  Diego.  It  was 
a  time  of  padlocked  bank  doors  and  "No 
Help  Wcinted"  signs. 

"I  did  a  lot  of  talking,  back  in  the  early 
1930's,"  Martin  reminisces  with  a  wry 
smile.  "I  talked  auto  accessories,  shoes, 
shirts,  ties,  vacuum  cleaners,  books, 
boats  and  razor  blades — and  sold  them 
all.  Sold  'em  in  stores — door  to  door — 
and  yes,  even  on  the  sidewalks.  The  only 
commodity  I  had  to  offer,  in  that  highly 
competitive  labor  market,  was  my  gift  of 
gab.  Developed  it  early,  on  my  school 
debating   team." 

One  item  Martin  had  not  hawked  was 
horoscopes — about  which  he  knew  noth- 
ing. If  he  had  any  awareness  of  them  at 
all,  it  was  only  the  suspicion  that  selling 
the  zodiac  was  the  second  largest  activity 
in  lower  California.  But  Fate  cared  very 
little  for  Martin's  personal  opinions.  She 
arranged  things  so  that  Martin  met  a 
man   who   did   purvey   the   mystic   charts. 

The  horoscope  tycoon  had  just  pur- 
chased a  little  radio  station  south  of  the 
border,  in  Tijuana,  Mexico.  He  knew 
nothing  about  running  a  radio  station, 
although  he  had  some  weird  idea  that 
Martin  did.  He  based  this  notion  on  the 
fact  that  he  knew  that  Martin  had  re- 
cently auditioned  for  a  San  Diego  an- 
nouncing job — and  had  been  given  the 
"don't   call   us,   we'll   call   you"   brush-off. 

"He  offered  me  a  proposition  which  I 
pounced  on  with  the  shy  reticence  of  a 
hungry  tiger,"  Martin  relates.  "In  no  time 
at  all,  I  was  program  director,  sales 
manager  and  chief  announcer  of  Station 
XEFD,  a  1000-watter.  Only  two  voices 
ever  went  through  that  microphone,  the 
astrologer's  and  mine.  He  sold  his  horo- 
scopes and  I  announced  the  less  cosmic 
commercials  —  everything  from  aspirin 
tablets  to  used  cars." 

That  initial  toe-hold  led  to  a  second 
radio  stint,  back  in  the  U.  S.,  at  KMPC 
in  Beverly  Hills.  Martin  now  had  a  deep 
conviction  that  he'd  found  his  true  me- 
dium. He  was  not  satisfied,  however,  that 
he  had  found  his  proper  niche  in  it.  He 
pondered  the  problem,  and  then  decided 
to  reverse  Horace  Greeley's  advice  to 
young  men.  He  came  East. 

"New  York  in  1934  didn't  roll  out  the 
red  carpet  for  me,"  Martin  says.  "I  had 
to  really  sell  myself.  One  day,  I  walked 
into  Station  WNEW  and  announced  my- 
self to  the  receptionist  as  'Mr.  Block  of 
California.' " 

A  gleam  of  amusement  lights  up  Mar- 
tin's eyes  as  he  adds,  "That  receptionist! 
Beautiful.  Blonde.  And  haughty!  I  wasn't 
impressing   her   with   that    'Mr.   Block    of 


a  medication 
that  really  works! 


FROM  THIS TO  THIS 

in  just  10  days! 

Exciting  results  of  actual  skin  tests  show  the  new  antibiotic  UTOL  is  the  answer  pimple 

sufferers  have  been  waiting  for.  Wonderful  Utol  comes  in  a  true  skin  color,  just  like  a  powder 

base,  and  helps  to  hide  ugly  pimples  while  allowing  the  miracle  antibiotic  in  Utol  to  help  clear 

up  pimples  faster.  Amazing  Utol  is  bringing  thousands  of  boys  and  girls  and  adults  -«--'  ■.  '. 

the  help  they've  longed  for  —  giving  them  new 

poise  and  confidence.  Sold  at  ,.«•..■>••""*'*** 

all  drug  stores  on  a  money 

back  guarantee... there  is  no 

product  like  Utol  for  fast 

pimple  relief. 


A  McKesson  Product 


FREE 


NATIOKAL  BELLAS  HESS 

MONEY-SAVING  •  FALL  8  WINTER 


STYLE  CATALOG 


For  You  and  Your  Family. . .  See  hundreds  of 
bright  fall  fashions  designed  in  New  York,  the  world's 
style  capital,  cflFered  to  you  at  the  lowest  prices  anywhere. 

Shop  by  mail  and  join  the  millions  who  save  by  buying 
regularly  from  this  colorful  catalog.  Select  from  styles  ablaze  with 
bright,  fall  colors,  all  tailored  to  your  family  budget.  Exciting 
home  items  at  lowest  prices,  too.  All  absolutely  guaranteed — 
your  money  back  if  you  are  not  pleased.  Our  67th  Year. 


SAVE  MONEY,  SAVE  TIME— ACT  NOW! 


NATIONAL  BELLAS  HESS 

247-88  Bellas  Hess  Building,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

Please  send  me,free,the  new  National  Bellas  Hess  Money-Saving  Catalog. 


I 


NATIONAL 
BELLAS   HESS 

247-88  Bellas  Hess  BIdg. 
Kansas  City,  Mo. 


Name__ 
Address- 

City 

State 


81 


ONLY  50« 
WHILE 
THEY  LAST 

This  sensational 
Tearbook  sells  out 
practically  as  soon 
as  it  is  put  on 
sale.  Bon't  be  dis- 
appointed this 
year — mail  coupon 
below   with    50c —  -^ 

today  I 

THIS  GORGEOUS  YEARBOOK 
CONTAINS  YOUR  FAVORITE 

TV-Radio  Stars 

The  gorgeoiis  new  TV-RADIO  ANNUAL  is 
now  available  to  you.  This  exciting  1955  year 
boolt  is  better  than  ever !  Below  is  a  brief  de- 
scription  of   this   really   important   Annual: 

NEWS  EVENTS  OF  THE  YEAR— The  behind-the-scenes 
stories  of  Eve  Arden  and  Brooks  West  •  Anne  Jeffreys  and 
Robert  Sterling  •  Florence  Halop  •  Bob  Smith  •  Paul 
Dixon  •  Steve  Allen  and  Jayne  Meadows  •  Wally  Coi;  • 
Jack   Webb    •    Alilton    Berle. 

NEW  SHOWS  OF  THE  YEAR — Stars  new  and  old,  who 
helped  make  recent  history,  Robert  Q,  Lewis  •  Sid 
Caesar  •  Imogene  Coca  •  Florian  ZaBach  •  Edgar  Bergen 

•  George  Gobel  •  Jack  Paar  •  Betty  White  •  Michael 
O'Shea  •  James  Dunn  •  William  Bishop  •  Eddie  Mayehoff 

•  Gil  Stratton  Jr, 

WHO'S  WHO  ON — Breakfast  Club  •   Father  Knows  Best 

•  Beat  The  Clock  •  Two  For  The  Money  •  The  Garry 
Moore  Show  •  Your  Hit  Parade  •  The  Halls  Of  Ivy  •  Our 
Miss  Brooks  •  Masquerade  Party  •  My  Favorite  Hus- 
band •  Fibber  McGee  and  Molly  •  Lassie  •  The  Big 
Payoff   •   The  Jackie  Gleason   Show. 

ALL-TIME  FAVORITES— Arthur  Godfrey  •  Ozzie  and 
Harriet  Nelson  •  Ralph  Edwards  •  Bert  Parks  •  Ten- 
nessee Ernie  Ford  •  Warren  Hull  •  Bill  Cullen  •  Boy 
Rogers  •  Gene  Autry  •  Red  Buttons  •  Jack  Bailey  • 
Jack  Barry  •  Ed  Sullivan  •  Art  Llnkletter  •  Donald 
O'Connor  •   Jimmy  Durante   •   Tom  Moore, 

GORGEOUS  NEW  COLOR  PORTRAITS  OF  THE  STARS 

— Thrilling  4-color  photographs  of  Liberace  •  Lucille 
Ball  and  Desi  Arnaz  •  Eddie  Fisher  •  Gale  Storm.  These 
full  page,  true-to- life  portraits  are  so  unusual  that  you 
will  want  to  frame  each  one  of  theml 

PLUS — Pictures  and  biographies  from  the  most  beloved 
daytime  dramas  on  radio  anri  TV. 


*  TV-RADIO  MIRROR  Dept.   RM-855* 

•205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.  • 

a  Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  TV -RADIO* 
.ANNUAL  1955.  I  enclose  50c.  , 

•u  • 

a  Name « 

T  Please    Print  J 

0  Address 

0  City State 


WRITE:  BREVITYPE  INSTITUTE,  SAN  DIEGO,  CALIF.,  DEPT.  1720 

LEARN  THE  WORLD'S  SIMPLEST, 
SPEEDIEST  SHORTHAND  NOW 

FREE— please  send  me  lypical  lessons,  details  on  Brevitype— world's 
Simplest,  speediest  shorthand— first  machine  shorthand  to  eliminale  coding. 
Tell  me  how  I  learn  Brevitype  in  %  the  time  through  your  personally  guided 
home-study  course.  Show  me  how  switching  to  Brevitype,  as  hundreds  have, 
prepares  me  for  security  as  a  stenographer,  secretary,  court  or  hearing 
reporter  here,  and  abroad,  in  business  or  Civil  Service  — helps  mo  Increase 
my  salary  50%  to  100%.  Include  costs  and  budget  plans 


82 


MODERN: 

'  TYPEWRITER  KErOOARDl 
NO  COOINGI      t«<;T  ABCll 


THE  BREVITYPE 

MACHINE,  WHICH 

CARRIES  THIS   SEAL, 

COMES  WITH 

THIS  COURSE 


California'  routine.  I  did  get  my  inter- 
view with  the  station  manager,  though — 
and,  when  I  passed  her  desk  again  on 
the  way  out,  I  was  a  member  of  the  an- 
nouncing staff.  Nowadays,  the  pretty  re- 
ceptionist and  I  have  a  good  laugh  when 
we  think  back  on  that  first  frosty  meet- 
ing. You  see,  I'm  married  to  her  now." 

Esther  and  Martin  Block  have  much 
to  be  thankful  for  today.  They  have  three 
fine  children  at  home  now:  Martin,  Jr.,  14, 
Joel  Christopher,  10,  and  Michael,  age  six- 
going-on-seven.  The  Blocks  have  a  spa- 
cious home  in  Englewood,  New  Jersey. 
They  have  a  host  of  comforts  that  come 
with  Martin's  twenty  years  of  gradually 
spiraling  success  and  leadership  in  the 
world  of  broadcast  music. 

A  fortunate  meeting  with  an  ambitious 
astrologer  had  marked  the  start  of  Mar- 
tin Block's  radio  career.  It  was  another 
man's  destiny,  however,  which  sparked 
the  beginning  of  Martin's  actual  success 
story. 

In  1935,  the  Hauptmann  trial  was  a 
cause  celehre  that  spawned  black  head- 
lines on  every  front  page  in  the  world  and 
kept  radio  newscasters  busy  'round  the 
clock.  Journalistically,  Martin  played  no 
part  in  this  drama.  He  was  a  mere  radio 
announcer — low  man  on  the  totem  pole 
of  a  small  independent  station. 

It  was  in  this  situation  that  Martin 
Block  ventured  to  do  one  of  the  most 
inspired  (and  ultimately  profitable)  bits 
of  ad-libbing  in  the  annals  of  radio.  The 
studio  had  him  "standing  by" — had  tossed 
him  the  little  problem  of  keeping  listeners 
tuned  in  between  those  sporadic  news 
flashes.  Martin  dreamed  up  an  extra 
listening  pliLS  which  did  the  trick.  He  as- 
sembled a  stack  of  recorded  pop  tunes — 
the  ones  he  judged  most  listenable — and 
played  them,  one  after  another.  In  place 
of  the  hackneyed  "And  next  we  will  hear" 
type  of  introduction,  Martin  improvised 
a  completely  new,  intimate  style  of  patter 
which  created  the  vivid  impression  that 
both  he  and  his  audience  were  together 
in  some  dreamy,  elegant  ballroom,  re- 
plete with  crystal  chandeliers,  endless 
mirrors,  and  acres  of  satin-smooth  dance 
floor.  In  addition  to  these  fabulous  word- 
pictures,  he  ad-libbed  comments  to  the 
performing  talent — talking  to  the  Dorseys, 
to  Whiteman,  Goodman  and  Crosby  as  if 
those  personalities  were  present  in  his 
fantasy-ballroom  "live,"  instead  of  on  wax. 

Listener  reaction  to  this  new  twist? 
Explosive.  Calls  began  jamming  the 
switchboard.  Where  was  this  exotic  place 
of  the  dance?  Whence  came  these 
rhythms?  What  magic  brought  together 
such  top-ranking  talent  under  one  roof? 

That  was  Martin  Block's  cue.  His  pur- 
pose was  not  to  deceive  anyone,  but  to 
entertain  everyone.  His  brain-child  was 
named  the  "Make  Believe  Ballroom,"  a 
program  idea  which  stirred  not  only 
listener-response  but  also  prompt  reaction 
from  the  sponsors. 

Twenty  years  have  marched  past  the 
bandstand  since  Martin's  ingenious  im- 
agination gave  such  a  good  account  of 
itself.  Today,  in  his  comfortable  office  at 
ABC,  just  a  few  steps  west  of  Central 
Park,  he  can  sit  back  in  the  leather-up- 
holstered swivel  chair  and  review  those 
two  decades  with  a  deep  sense  of  satisfac- 
tion. The  experts  will  verify  that  his 
"Make  Believe  Ballroom"  has  always  been 
and  still  is  a  glittering  showcase  for  the 
wares  of  every  important  bandleader  and 
singing    personality    in    the    business. 

Among  the  vocalists  who  got  their 
initial  boost  toward  stardom  on  Martin's 
tuneful  record  show  are  Dinah  Shore  and 
Frank  Sinatra.  The  cavalcade  of  band- 
leaders who  built  bigger  followings,  thanks 
to  Martin,  includes  Benny  Goodman, 
Tommy  Dorsey  and  Harry  James.  Martin 


himself  co-authored  (with  Mickey  Stoner, 
music  by  Harold  Green)  his  now  famous 
opening  theme  song,  "It's  Make  Believe 
Ballroom  Time."  And  who  recorded  this 
lilting  curtain-raiser?  None  other  than 
the  immortal  Glenn  Miller. 

Those  are  significant  names,  legendary 
names,  in  Martin's  book.  They  conjure  up 
a  contrast  between  the  radio  audience  of 
yesteryear  and  today. 

"There's  been  a  marked  change  in  listen- 
ing habits  since  the  advent  of  television," 
he  observes.  "Today,  the  listener  expects 
vocalists  to  predominate,  not  groups  that 
are  strictly  instrumental.  It's  a  direct  by- 
product of  the  TV-viewing  habit.  Nowa- 
days, people  sit  around  in  comfortable 
living-room  chairs  and  watch  hit  tunes 
instead  of  dancing  to  them.  They've  be- 
come conditioned  to  the  visual  and,  there- 
fore, the  vocal,  because  TV  spotlights  the 
solo  performers.  Whenever  TV  does  offer 
a  jump  tune  or  a  mambo  it's  apt  to  be 
a  big  production  number  with  eye-inter- 
est: sets,  costumes,  corps  de  ballet,  the 
works.  But,  most  times,  the  vocalist  is 
supreme.  It's  the  singing  personality  who 
reaches  the  audience's  heart.  Listen  to 
'Make  Believe  Ballroom'  and  judge  for 
yourself.  It's  vocals,  ten  to  one." 

Martin  Block,  circa  1955,  is  rated  as  the 
nation's  premier  platter-spinner.  He  has 
toiled  in  his  tuneful  vineyard  and  he  has 
garnered  great  rewards.  His  material  wealth 
is  enviable.  Reasons  enough  for  review- 
ing two  solid  decades  of  success  with  a 
sense  of  deep  satisfaction.  The  fact  is, 
however,  those  are  not  the  sole  reasons. 
Martin's  personal  make-up  has  a  definitely 
non-material  side  ...  a  side  which  has 
been  somewhat  eclipsed  by  the  sheer 
dazzle  of  his  commercial  success. 

You  are  made  aware  of  this  less  publi- 
cized aspect  of  Martin  Block  if  you  happen 
to  meet  him  in  a  mood  such  as  was 
prompted  by  that  young  mother's  fan 
letter — the  "three  generations  of  listen- 
ers" letter.  It's  a  mood  which  comes 
easily  to  Martin:  reflective,  self-evaluat- 
ing, critical.  If  only  it  were  possible  to 
wire-tap  Martin's  thoughts  when  such  a 
mood  descends  on  him,  you  might  over- 
hear— not  the  question,  "Have  I  been  a 
successful  disc  jockey?" — but  rather, 
"Have   I  been  useful   to  society?" 

Ihe  answer  to  the  latter  question  is 
spelled  out  in  Martin's  very  respectable 
record  of  public  service  activity — entirely 
voluntary  activity,  by  the  way.  Not  a  few 
among  Martin's  fans  will  recall  the  times 
when  they  responded  to  his  xirgent  ap- 
peals for  blankets,  clothing,  money — 
anything  that  would  alleviate  the  hard- 
ship of  disaster  victims  made  homeless 
by  storms  or  floods  which  struck  sections 
of  the  country  far  outside  the  boundaries 
of  his  local  listenership. 

There  was  that  time,  back  in  1943,  when 
Martin  got  "hopping  mad."  A  young  GI 
had  written  to  him  asking  why  it  was 
that  servicemen  had  to  pay  for  their 
music  at  certain  military  camps.  The 
youngster  complained  that,  on  his  post 
and  at  the  port  of  embarkation,  he  and 
his  buddies  could  listen  to  a  ballad  or 
a  bit  of  jive  only  if  they  dropped  their 
money  in  the  jukebox. 

"I  wasted  no  time  in  relaying  that 
grievance  to  my  listeners,"  Martin  relates. 
"Their  reaction  was — well,  overwhelming. 
The  switchboard  was  jammed.  Letters  and 
packages  came  pouring  in — portable  radios, 
phonographs,  records,  and  cash.  We  sup- 
plied military  installations  on  the  eastern 
seaboard  with  enough  equipment  to  fill 
the  listening  needs  of  a  hundred  divisions!" 

On  another  World  War  II  occasion, 
soldiers  suffering  from  combat  wovmds, 
overseas  and  aboard  hospital  ships,  turned 
to  Martin  for  help.  They  were  ambula- 
tory patients,  their  letters  explained,  and 


had  a  hankering  to  fill  in  some  of  their 
dull  hours  with  music — self-made  music. 
Did  Martin  have  any  ideas  on  how  they 
might  lay  hands  on  a  piano? 

"I  passed  that  one  along  to  my  listeners 
and  the  boys  got  their  wish  but  fast," 
Martin  says.  "They  got  first  choice  from 
the  more  than  three  hundred  pianos  that 
were  pledged  within  hours  after  I  broad- 
cast the  appeal." 

Helping  people's  morale  helped 
strengthen  the  country's  war  effort.  Martin 
knew  that  war  bonds  helped,  too,  and  into 
his  studio  microphone  he  poured  a  steady 
stream  of  his  most  persuasive  salesman- 
ship— on  behalf  of  Uncle  Sam.  The  final 
score?  "Make  Believe  Ballroom"  fans 
responded  for  a  total  of  more  than  three 
million   dollars'    worth    of   bonds. 

These  are  but  a  few  highlights  of  Martin 
Block's  contributions  to  pubUc  service. 
They're  characteristic  of  his  inner  need  to 
be — not  merely  a  money-maker  or  a 
maker  of  hit  tunes — but,  deep  down,  a 
useful  member  of  society. 

"To  some  people,  being  on  the  air  is 
just  another  way  of  making  money,"  he 
says.  "You  can't  just  do  a  program.  A  disc 
jockey  has  a  terrific  responsibihty  to  the 
community,  to  the  nation — more  so,  I 
believe,  than  the  editor  of  a  newspaper. 
Oh,  siire,  he's  got  a  primary  obligation  to 
present  the  newest  and  the  best  in  music, 
and  to  sell  the  sponsor's  product.  He  can 
do  both,  with  integrity  and  honesty,  and 
still  go  beyond  that  in  the  service  of  his 
fellow  citizens.  Every  town,  every  city 
has  its  quota  of  human  problems.  In  most 
cases,  there  will  be  a  wise  leadership 
seeking  and  carrying  out  solutions  to  those 
problems.  The  good  disc  jockey,  I  feel,  will 
get  behind  such  leadership — lend  support 
to  their  cause,  when  asked,  or  even  take 
the  initiative." 

iVlake  Believe  Ballroom"  listeners  know 
that  Martin — on  his  own  initiative — has 
been  coming  to  grips  with  one  much- 
publicized  and  highly  confused  problem 
in  human  relationships:  this  thing  called 
juvenile  deUnquency. 

"Like  millions  of  other  parents,  I've  got 
a  personal  ax  to  grind  in  this  matter," 
Martin  says.  "My  own  son,  Martin,  Jr., 
is  fourteen.  Joel  Christopher  wUl  move 
into  that  teen-age  group,  soon.  Their 
pals  are  the  children  of  my  neighbors 
and  friends.  And  there  are  fine,  whole- 
some youngsters  exactly  hke  them  all 
over  the  country — getting  more  and  more 
on  the  defensive,  almost  getting  inferiority 
complexes.  Like  the  lad  who  recently  said 
to  me:  'Mr.  Block,  it's  reaching  the  point 
where  I  can't  meet  three  or  four  of  my 
friends  in  front  of  the  local  drugstore 
without  a  cop  coming  over  and  telling 
lis  to  break  it  up,  get  moving.' " 

As  he  airs  his  views  on  this  subject, 
Martin  is  apt  to  rise  from  his  chair  and 
do  a  bit  of  tense  pacing.  "Sure,  it's  true 
that  some  teenagers  are  making  the  head- 
lines. But  that  doesn't  justify  the  wide- 
spread attitude  toward  all  youngsters  in 
that  age  bracket.  Too  darn  many  grown- 
ups are  getting  too  darn  careless  with  that 
term  'juvenile  delinquent.'  It  happens  to 
be  a  fact  that,  out  of  some  forty  million 
boys  and  girls  ki  this  country,  only  1.7 
percent  can  be  technically  classified  as 
juvenile  delinquents.  One-point-seven 
percent!  How  about  the  remaining  ninety- 
eight-point-three  percent?  Isn't  it  high 
time  that  people  began  stressing  juvenile 
decency  instead  of  juvenile  delinquency?" 

It's  all  part  of  the  pattern  Martin  Block 
,  started,  in  those  exciting  early  days  of 
disc-jockeying.  And,  so  long  as  his 
"Make  Believe  Ballroom"  continues  to 
pour  out  music  for  young  and  old  alike, 
the  accent  will  be  on  decency,  positive 
values,  and  faith  in  the  future. 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,  etc. 

GIVEN  TO  YOU 


TAKE  your  choice  of  hundreds  of  nationally 
advertised  products:  Cannon  Sheets  and 
Towels,  Dormeyer  Mixers,  Proctor  Toast- 
ers, Bates  Bedspreads,  Westinghouse  Vacuum 
Cleaners  —  curtains,  wearing  apparel,  silver- 
ware, furniture,  watcheS,  cameras — yours  with- 
out cost!  You  don't  pay  a  cent  for  anything. 

Send  for  FREE  Color  Catalog 

You  can  have  any  of  the  fine  merchandise  shown 
in  our  beautiful,  big  Catalog:  S50.00-S  100.00 
worth  —  or  more  —  simply  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
Popular  Club  you  help  your  friends  form.  It's 
fun!  Thousands  are  refurnishing  and  redecorating 
their  homes  this  new,  easy  way  — without  spend- 
ing any  money.  You  can,  too! 


EUREKA 
VACUUM  CIEANER 


ST.  MARY'S  BLANKETS 


Nothing  to  Buy  — Nothing  to  Sell! 

Mail  the  coupon  or  write  for  the  Free  260-Page  Full 
Color  Catalog  and  select  the  merchandise  you  want. 
See  how  easily  you  can  get  it  without  a  penny  of 
cost.  No  obligation  —  write  today. 


Popular  Club  Plan,  Dept.  G-935,    Lynbrook,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  FREE  260-Page  Full  Color  CATALOG  of 
nationally  advertised  merchandise  and  tell  me  how  I  may  get 
the  things  I  want  without  cost. 


Name 

Address 

City Zone State 

Notice   to   regular   Club   Secretaries:    You   will   automatically 
receive  this  new  catalog  soon. 


r/PS  kr  EXPECTANT  MOTHERS 


FREE  booklet  of  valuable  informa- 
tion, "Tips  for  Expectant  Mothers", 
is  offered  with  this  soothing,  re- 
freshing skin  conditioner  thai 
softens  fight,  dry  skin,  eases  muscu- 
lar tingling  and  burning  in^^^ 
back  and  legs.  Enjoy  the  z^S^l*^ 
Comfort  and  Relief  of  I^i's  (p^pgj^jjj 
Skin   Lubricant.  ^v^^^^^^]^ 

$1.25  AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES       ^^^ 

Mother's  Friend 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Findfe  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form,  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *Keg.  V.  S.  Pst.  Off. 


Play  Right  Away! 

Now  it's  EASY  to  leam  ANY  INSTRUMENT— even  if 
you  don't  know  a  single  note  now.  No  boring  exercises. 
You  play  delightful  pieces  RIGHT  AWAY— from  very  first 
lesson!  Properly— by  note.  Simple  as  A-B-C.  You  maKe 
amazing  progress — at  home,  in  spare  time, 
without   teacher.    Only   few    cents    per   lesson.  --a^S** 

900.000    STUDENTS!  .,.     .   ^gSSt'tT^ 

^^■rp   D/>#^l#      Shows    how    easy    it    ^^Xi^'l^A 
FRtE.   BCIUIV      to  leam  music  this  mod-l.;ffini«»»?'V'; 
em     way.     Write    for     it.     No    obligation;     no  I 
salesman    will    call    upon    you.    U.    S.    Sciiool 
of     Music,     Studio     A-208,      Port     Washington, 
N.   Y.   (S7th   successful   year). 


Amazing  Hew,  Exclusive 

PARCHMEHT 
CHRISTMAS  CARDS 


254 


CASH  FOR  YOU! 

You've  never  seen  cards  so  lovely ! 
New  Parchment  Cards  personalized 
with  Name-ln-Red,  sell  fast  at  25 
for  $1.  Just  show  our  exclusive  Sam- 
ple Book  to  friends;  take  big  orders! 
$6S  IS  YOURS  for  selling  65  boxes 
of  luxurious  "Southern  Hospitality" 
Greetings.  Abo  Southern  Beauty  and  other 
Assortments,  Gifts,  many  more.   All  orders 
shipped  in  24  hours.  Profits  to  100%,  plus  bonus. 
Get  FREE  Sample  Book.  Assortments  on  ap- 
proval. Slipperettes  FREE  if  you  act  fast. 
MAIL  COUPON  NOW! 

I   SOuThERN  GREETINGS,  Dept.  B-31 
I    47SN.  Hollywood,  Memphis  12,  Tenn. 


I       ±\UTTUt 

I    Address 

I    City  &  State.. 


83 


WOMEN 


IF  YOU  HEED 


m^ 


HERE'S 

150' 

FOR  YOU! 


Make  all  the  ex- 
tra money  you 
want  in  spare 
time.  Take  or- 
ders for  beautir 
ful  Fashion  Frocks  — low  as 
$3.98  each.  Over  100  dif- 
ferent styles,  colors,  fab- 
rics. We  furnish  fabric 
samples.You  risk  noth- 
ing. Absolutely  no 
experience  needed. 
\         Try  it  —  mail  cou- 
\  pon  below. 


FASHION 
FROCKS 

''-)  INCORPORATED 

Oept.  7-2053 

Cincinnati  IS,  0. 

In  Canada,  North  Americon 

Foshion  Froclts,  Ltd. 

2163  Parthenois,  Dept.  T-20S3 

Montreal,  P.  Q. 


PASTE  COUPON  ON  POSTCARD-Mail  Today! 


FASHION  FROCKS,  INC. 

Dept.  T>2053,  Cincinnati  25,  Ohio 

Send  me  labric  samples  and  everything  I  need  to  moke 
money  in  spare  time.  No  obligalion-everything  furnished. 


Name_ 


-Age- 


Address. 


-State- 


City  &  Zone 

If  you  live  in  Canada,  mail  this  coupon  to  North  Ameri. 
1    can  Fashion  Frocks.  Ltd.,  2163  Parthenais,  Montreal,  P.Q. 


(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 


^DeRmoiL 


SEE  FOR  YOURSELF 
no  matter  how  long  you 
have  aufferefl.  Write  for 
,  FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 
,  and  DERMOIL  with 
,  actual  "belore — alter" 
I  photo  record  of  results. 


84 


vGENEROUS 

TRIAL 

SIXE 


Don't  be  embarrassed 
with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 
scaly   skin   disease.    Try 
non  •  staining    DERMOIL. 

Amazing  resulta  reported 

for  over  22  years!  Many 

grateful    uaers    report    the " 

Bcaly  red  patches  on  body  _^^^^^^ 

or  pcalp  gradually  disappeared  and  they^^^^^^^^  ■-"■i.At. 

again  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  smooth  clear  skin.  DERMOIL 

formula  Ih  u."ed    by   many  doctors.    Must  give  definite 

benefit  or  your  money  baclt.  Maiie  our  famous  "One  Spot 

Test"!  vSI'JND   lOp  for  trial   bottle.   DERMOIL  sold  at 

Liggett  and  Walgreen  and   other   leading    Drug  Stores. 

Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.  1004 

""        ----     -.  station,      Detroit     27,      Mich, 


Box     3925     Strathr 


A  Very  Lucky  Lady 


(Continuei,  from  page  54) 
chores.  Week  nights,  she  usually  has  a 
script  to  learn  for  the  next  day's  program, 
Ben  cueing  her  when  he  has  time;  When- 
ever they  can  find  a  really  free  evening, 
they  sandwich  in  theater  or  opera  in  New 
York,  but  this  necessarily  involves  plan- 
ning ahead,  in  a  household  where  every- 
body is  so  busy  and  there  are  commuting 
schedules  to  be  consulted. 

In  their  own  neighborhood,  everybody 
takes  Flo's  job  for  granted,  but  once  in 
a  while  someone  will  tell  her  that  Ben  has 
been  bragging  about  his  wife's  talent — 
"although,  husband-like,  he  never  toots 
my  horn  much  when  I'm  aroiind!" 

Flo  was  a  stage  actress,  sharing  an 
apartment  with  another  young  career  girl, 
when  she  met  Ben.  Her  roommate  often 
mentioned  an  old  beau,  a  Yale  man  who 
was  "a  marvelous  musician,"  and  one  day 
she  came  home  with  Ben  in  tow.  Flora 
recalls:  "I  thought.  How  nice!  She's  seeing 
him  again.  But  she  went  off  to  Florida, 
saying  I  should  go  dancing  with  Ben  in 
her  absence.  We  both  love  to  dance,  so 
that  wasn't  difficult  to  take.  Before  we 
knew  it,  we  were  going  together  and  en- 
joying each  other's  company  more  than 
anyone  else's,  although  we  didn't  marry 
imtil  about  three  years  later.  My  former 
apartment  mate,  still  one  of  my  best 
friends,  met  someone  she  fell  deeply  in 
love  with  and  is  now  a  wife  and  mother. 

"It  was  understood,  when  Ben  and  I  got 
married,  that  I  had  a  career  I  wanted  to 
continue.  But  I  knew  then  that,  if  it  ever 
interfered  with  my  home  life,  I  would 
drop  it  quickly.  It  never  has.  Fortunately, 
although  I  have  taken  time  out  to  have 
two  children,  we  have  had  no  severe  ill- 
nesses or  other  major  crises,  and  neither 
Ben  nor  I  have  ever  felt  my  working  was 
harmful  to  our  family  life.  Like  other 
mothers  who  are  away  from  home  part- 
time,  I  make  a  special  effort  to  be  with 
the  children  during  every  free  hour.  I  am 
back  at  the  house  by  three  each  afternoon, 
when  Creel  gets  up  from  her  nap,  and  am 
home  weekends.  What's  more,  I  am  com- 
pletely contented  to  stay  at  home  evenings 
— to  be  with  the  children  and  to  study 
my  script  after  they  are  in  bed.  I  feel  I 
am  eating  my  cake  and  having  it,  too- 
trite  as  this  may  sound — by  combining 
such  a  satisfying  family  life  with  an  artis- 
tic career." 

For  Flora  Campbell,  the  dream  began 
when  she  was  a  little  girl,  growing  up  in 
Oklahoma.  She  was  born  in  the  little 
town  of  Nowata,  which  her  great-uncle 
helped  to  found.  When  she  was  ten,  her 
family  moved  to  Bartlesville,  where  she 
finished  high  school,  later  going  on  to 
Oklahoma  City. 

At  seventeen,  she  persuaded  her  father 
to  let  her  go  to  Chicago  for  a  year,  to 
study  the  violin  at  the  famous  Chicago 
Musical  College.  She  went  home  again  in 
the  summer  and,  even  though  her  mother 
was  ill  and  in  a  hospital,  she  insisted  that 
Flora  continue  her  musical  education  and 
take  a  regular  college  course,  in  addition. 
So,  the  next  year,  Flora  began  to  divide 
her  time  between  academic  studies  at  the 
University  of  Chicago  and  her  musical 
studies.  Until  something  happened  to 
change  her  course. 

"I  had  come  to  two  conclusions,  that 
first  year  when  I  was  in  Chicago  alone," 
she  says.  "One  was  that  I  missed  my  twin 
sister,  Dorothy."  (There  is  another  sister, 
Beth,  three  years  older,  and  a  younger 
brother,  Jack.)  "The  other  conclusion  was 
that  there  were  many  student  violinists 
at  the  College  who  were  much  more  tal- 
ented and  much  more  promising  than  I. 


"My  twin  wasn't  musical,  but  she  had 
been  the  one  to  go  in  for  high  school 
dramatics  and  she  was  keen  on  going 
ahead  with  a  career.  Mother  sympathized 
with  our  ambitions  and  wanted  us  to  be 
together,  so  the  folks  sent  us  both  back 
to  Chicago,  that  second  year.  We  shared 
an  apartment  with  another  aspiring  ac- 
tress, and  gradually  I  began  to  think  that 
theirs  was  the  more  interesting  life.  I 
listened  when  they  studied  their  roles  at 
home,  and  I  suppose  it  was  inevitable  that 
I  should  decide  to  become  an  actress,  too. 
So  I  enrolled  in  the  Goodman  School,  of 
the  Theater." 

After  a  couple  of  months,  however,  dis- 
content set  in.  Flo  found  that  the  one 
leading  role  she  got  would  be  the  last  for 
the  year,  each  first-year  student  having 
a  chance  at  just  one  during  the  season. 
When  she  confided  her  dissatisfaction  to 
a  friend — her  hurry  to  get  ahead  and  be 
a  Broadway  star — the  friend  had  just  the 
right  solution.  She  herself  had  been  in  a 
Broadway  show  and  had  loved  it  and 
filled  Flo's  head  with  stories  of  New  York 
and  the  theater,  and  now  she  produced 
a  clipping  from  a  New  York  newspaper 
to  the  effect  that  Eva  LeGallienne  was 
holding  auditions  for  a  student  group 
which  would  form  a  part  of  her  Civic 
Repertory  Theater.  Out  of  fifteen  hun- 
dred. Flora  became  one  of  the  fifty  to  be 
chosen.  "Only  because  no  experience  was 
required,  only  some  promise,"  she  says. 

It  was  here  she  learned  the  fundamen- 
tals of  acting,  and  such  essential  things 
as  make-up  and  stage  deportment.  She 
had  speech  lessons  and  lessons  in  dancing. 
She  played  "walk-ons"  and  tiny  parts, 
and  she  learned  much  about  the  traditions 
of  the  theater,  the  hard  work  demanded 
of  any  successful  actress,  the  humility 
with  which  each  small  success  must  be 
accepted.  Miss  LeGallienne  and  her  ex- 
cellent repertory  company  inspired  Flora 
with  a  deep  love  of  the  theater:  "It  was 
the  greatest  good  luck  for  me.  Stimulat- 
ing. Wonderful.  The  ideal  first  year  for 
any  young  actress." 

Before  the  LeGallienne  season  started, 
Flo  and  Dorothy  determined  they  would 
get  some  work  in  summer  theater,  so  they 
made  the  rounds  together.  One  of  the 
places  they  aimed  for  was  the  Cape  Play- 
house, at  Dennis  on  Cape  Cod,  but  at  first 
they  were  told  that  only  experienced 
people  could  be  used.  They  had  to  admit 
they  had  no  real  experience — marveling 
a  little  that  their  talent  didn't  stick  out  all 
over  them  and  make  such  mundane  quali- 
fications unnecessary! 

As  they  were  leaving  the  casting  office, 
the  manager  seemed  to  relent  and  sug- 
gested he  would  make  an  exception  and 
let  them  come  as  "paying  apprentices." 
A  little  haughtily,  they  said  they  expected 
to  be  paid,  and  swept  out.  But  he  came 
after  them  again.  "You  two  seem  so  fresh 
out  of  Oklahoma,  and  yet  so  sure  of  your- 
selves, maybe  we  can  use  you,  anyhow. 
You  can  come  with  the  company,  without 
paying."    They  grabbed  at  the  chance. 

It  was  a  good  summer.  Flo  worked  un- 
usually hard,  and  did  so  well  that  she  was 
asked  back  the  next  summer,  and  the  next 
and  the  next,  as  company  ingenue.  She 
played  with  some  of  the  greatest  names 
in  the  theater,  Ethel  Barrymore,  Ruth 
Gordon,    and    Humphrey   Bogart. 

By  this  time,  her  twin  had  married  and 
was  living  in  New  York.  -This  helped  a 
lot,  during  the  winters  when  Flo  was , 
pounding  pavements  and  jobs  were  few. 
When  she  needed  a  good  home-cooked 
meal,    she    could    have    one    at    Dottie's. 

"If  you  were  really  ambitious  you  got 
out  and   looked  for  a  job,   rain  or  shine. 


and  sat  in  dingy  outer  offices  for  hours  at 
a  time,  lunching  at  drugstore  counters  on 
hot  dogs  and  coffee."  This  is  the  way  Flo 
sums  up  the  next  few  winters,  until  finally 
she  got  a  walk-on  in  "The  Country  Wife|' 
and  then  her  first  real  role  in  "Excursion," 
an  artistic  play  which  received  fine  no- 
tices but  closed  in  three  months.  How- 
ever, it  did  begin  a  period  of  fairly  smooth 
sailing  for  Flo  in  Broadway  plays,  such  as 
"Many  Mansions"  and  "Angela  Is  22." 

About  midway  in  her  career  as  a  stage 
actress,  she  married  Ben.  And,  when 
Tommy  came  along  she  took  a  year  off  to 
play  the  role  of  mother  and  housewife, 
until  he  was  old  enough  to  be  left  in 
competent  hands.  She  did  a  few  plays 
after  that — "Glamour  Preferred,"  which 
was  a  flop,  "The  Land  Is  Bright,"  which 
certainly  didn't  have  much  of  a  run,  and 
"Foxhole  in  the  Parlor,"  with  Montgomery 
Clift.  Her  last  play  was  "The  Curious 
Savage,"  after  Creel  was  bom,  but  by  this 
time  she  had  discovered  a  medium  called 
radio  and  another  called  television — in 
fact,  she  had  played  in  one  very  early 
adaptation  of  "Jane  Eyre"  on  TV,  'way 
back  in  1940,  and  in  one  of  the  first  day- 
time dramas  on  television  aroimd  the 
year  1948,  called  The  Far  Away  Hill. 

By  now  her  list  of  radio  and  television 
credits  is  long  and  distinguished — from 
the  "nice  women"  roles  in  The  Strange 
Romance  Of  Evelyn  Winters  (radio)  and 
the  mother  in  A  Date  With  Judy  (TV)  to 
fifteen  appearances  in  Kraft  television 
dramas,  roles  in  The  Web,  Danger,  Big 
Town,  T-Men,  Robert  Montgomery  Pre- 
sents, and  Studio  One — and,  before  Valiant 
Lady,  the  starring  role  in  a  daytime  drama 
called  The  Seeking  Heart,  in  which  she 
played  Dr.  Robin  McKay. 

When  she  was  first  asked  to  play  the 
"Vahant  Lady"  herself,  she  had  some  mis- 
givings. "She  sounded  so  'noble'  that  I 
was  afraid  she  wouldn't  be  a  very  inter- 
esting person.  I  was  quite  wrong  about 
her.  Helen  Emerson  is  a  warmhearted, 
delightful  human  being,  a  woman  I  admire 
and  like.  A  believable  person  with  a  fine 
sense  of  humor,  who  makes  mistakes  as 
all  of  us  do,  tries  to  correct  them  as  all  of 
us  try,  and  usually  comes  out  on  top.  I 
think  the  world  is  filled  with  other  women 
— and  men,  too — who  are  like  Helen,  try- 
ing to  do  the  best  they  can." 

Sharing  Helen  Emerson's  strong  feeling 
about  family  ties.  Flora  Campbell  finds 
her  a  sympathetic  person  to  play.  This 
feeling,  fostered  by  having  a  family  of  her 
own,  was  bred  in  her  during  her  Oklahoma 
childhood.  Although  her  mother  passed 
on  some  twenty  years  ago,  she  has  never 
forgotten  the  brave  woman  who  always 
had  such  great  drive  and  ambition  for  her 
children.  Flo  says  of  her:  "She  went  out 
to  Oklahoma  to  teach  school,  and  there 
she  met  my  father.  All  her  life  she  was 
interested  in  education.  She  was  a  Brown- 
ing scholar,  a  bird  lover  who  lectured  on 
the  subject  in  our  home  state  and  taught 
others  to  love  them.  Even  her  name  was 
beautiful  and  unusual — Isis  Justice  Camp- 
bell." 

Now  Flo's  father  has  retired  to  Coffey- 
ville,  Kansas,  to  be  close  to  some  of  his 
family — Flo's  Aimt  Rebecca,  her  Aunt 
Frank  (for  Frances),  her  Uncle  Al  and 
her  cousins  Bob  and  Bill  Hill — all  of  whom 
live  either  in  CoffeyviUe  or  the  nearby 
town  of  La  Fontaine.  They  see  Valiant 
Lady  on  television  and  tell  her  it's  like 
getting  a  letter  from  her.  "It  keeps  us 
close,"  she  says. 

This,  again,  is  "eating  her  cake  and 
having  it,  too."  With  Ben  and  Tommy  and 
Creel  by  her  side,  with  the  rest  of  her 
family  looking  on  as  she  plays  that  other 
lovely  woman,  Helen  Emerson,  Flora 
Campbell  knows  she's  a  lucky  lady  indeed. 


5e//  Hew LIWNGCOlORuvmom  and  other 

CHRISTMAS  CARDS 

1     Make  ^50  on  50  boxes 


NO  BETTER  WAY  TO  EARN  EXTRA  MONEY 

Let  the  surge  to  Religious  Christmas  Cards  bring 
you  biggest  spare  time  earniags.  New  folders  fea- 
turing amazing  new  Living  Color  Reproductions  of 
inspiring  Religious  subjects  pay  you  $1  per  box. 
Easy  to  sell  50  boxes — make  $50.00 — from  FREE 
^Samples.  4  glorious  new  $1  Religious  Assortments; 
"I  Believe"  Album  of  45  Deluxe  Personals.  200 
other  new  money-makers  for  every  purse  and  person. 

This  Big  Line  Has  Everything 

Extra  profits  come  easy  from  Exclusive  $1  Glitter  'n  Gold  Slim 
Asst.,  other  newest  Tall  Cards;  7  lines'  of  Christmas  Personals; 
unusual  Tree  and  Door  Ornaments;  Children's  Cards,  Books, 
Games;  over  50  Gifts  &  Gadgets,  others.  No  experience  needed. 

See  For  Yourself 

Get  details  of  Catalog  Shopping  Plan,  New  Gal- 
lery Portfolio,  Factory  Surplus  Bargains.  4  Assort- 
ments on  approval.  Color  Catalog  and  Personal- 
ized Samples  FREE.  Mail  coupon  now. 


ICa'u^^UII 


SEND 

FOR 

SAMPLES 


EXTRAI 

Factory  Surplus  Bargains 


I   MIDWEST  CARD  CO 


*rr35«  'l^TSO* 


Dept.  445-C     ^ 
1113  Washington  Ave.,  St.  Louis  1,  Mo. 

Please  send  me  money-making  details  includ- 
ing Bargain  List  and  samples  on  approval. 

Name 


CoiPiHm  brings  FRiE  list 


MIDWEST  CARD  COMPANY 

1113  Washington  Ave.,  Dept.  Q^Q  St.  Louis1,f 


Address- 


City- 


State J 


for\ 


t  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
l  ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly 
I  instructors :  standard  texts.   Full  credit  ' 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awardec 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-26 
'  2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois 


■     ■     I    '     '      ' 

WOMEM 
OHVlf 


Ifyou  need  more  money... 

Up  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cos- 
metics, your  neighborhood. 
Free    Samples    and    details 
'm  o>^if»lw;;v.  supplied.  Write  to: 
>-  Guara^eed  by%     HARRY  TAUOR,  Pres. 
Good  Housekeeping  )    „  ,?'"'''»  gi"  -.. 
",  jv*/     Holljwood  Cosmetics 

I^J^ovriiistowS-^lendale,  Calif.,  DepLTS-85 


Imagine  Making  Big 
MoneyinYourSpareTime! 

This  advertisement  brings  you  an  op- 
portunity to  make  big  money  in  your 
spare  time.  Rush  your  name  and  ad- 
dress to  us  today  and  we  will  send  your 
FREE  information  telling  you  how  you 
can  earn  $50,  $60,  $70  regularly, 
merely  by  helping  us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions.  No  experience 
needed.  There  is  no  obligation.  Write 
today! 

MACFADDEN  PUBLICATIONS 

205  E.  42  St.  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEV-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata- 
log pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma-    '?VitV  1R 
ternity  fashions.  World's  Largest.  Complete    //jfiv^'/ 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep-  {4i{i?\/y 
arates.  Sportswear,  GirdleS;  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  $22.98.  Catalog  mailed  m  plain  envelope. 

C  RAWFORD'S 

Dept.  35,  8015Wornatl.KansasCityl4,Mo. 


Add  COLOR  To  Your  TV! 

New  Multichrome  television  screen  filter  adds 
color  to  any  set.  Attach  in  seconds.  Instantly, 
vivid  color  takes  the  place  of  drab  black  and 
white.  Glare  and  eyestrain  are  eliminated. 
Guaranteed.  Only  $2.98.  Send  now.  Specify 
screen  size. 

HOLMES  COMPANY 

Box  581  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


■F    ^      ^'      ^     ^       W 

I     Want  to  Get  Rid  of 
L  Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
Freckles,  Skin 


Spots?] 


Famous  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  amazing  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream?  NIGHT  PLAN  to  a  whiter,  softer, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  ap  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  ased  this 
time -tested  plan  for  over  40  years  —  you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  1W)%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now! 
MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Lightens  dark 
skin  and  ugly 
spots  almost 
overnigtit. 


85 


Her  Life  Is  a  Song 


86 


Thrilling  New  Massage  Cream 
Contains  PC-11.  Acts  Instantly  to 

DRY  UP  SKIN 
BLEMISHES 

From  Both  Oily  Skin  and 
External  Causes! 

Have  you  tried  in  vain  to  get  rid 
of  oily  pimples,  "liickies,"  other 
externally  caused  skin  blemishes? 
Well,  you  never  had  PC-1 1  be- 
fore! That's  POMPEIAN'S  name 
^  for  Hexachlorophene.  Wonder- 
ful discovery  of  science  helps  dry  up  such  skin 
blemishes!  Acts  instantly  to  clean  out  dirt,  helps 
remove  blackheads  like  magic!  Goes  on  face  pink — 
rolls  off  muddy  gray! 

GENEROUS  TRIAL  TUBE— 10  CENTS! 
Send    name,  address    and    10  cents  to   POMPEIAN 
CORP.,  Dept.  P-8,    Baltimore  24,  Md.  (Offer  good 
only  in  U.S.)  Or  get  Pompeian  Mas- 
sage Cream  at  any  drug  store. 


POMPEIAN 

MASSAGE    CREAM 


(Continued  from  page  51) 
harder,  crowding  in  more  things.  Doing 
the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  shows,  playing  club 
dates  and  ballroom  engagements,  doing 
telethons,  benefits,  anything  required  of 
me.  But  it's  all  fun.  The  whole  thing  is 
just — well,  just  great!" 

There's  something  else,  too.  Several 
things,  in  fact.  Things  that  have  made 
Betty  very  happy.  Like  having  a  settled 
home,  for  the  first  time  in  years,  and  fairly 
settled  hours  of  work.  "I  could  never,  un- 
til recently,  say  to  my  mother,  'Let's  have 
dinner  at  6  tonight,  if  you  don't  mind,  and 
then  I  have  a  date.'  I  could  never  be  sure 
of  my  schedule.  Now  I  can  be.  My  work 
had  kept  me  on  the  move,  or  uncertain 
that  I  could  keep  any  date  I  made,  or  fol- 
low through  on  any  plan. 

"If  I  met  someone  I  thought  I  might  like, 
I  never  had  much  chance  to  know  him 
better.  Just  when  I  thought  that  might 
happen,  I  would  have  to  leave.  How  can 
you  be  sure  it's  more  than  the  usual 
friendship  when  you  meet  a  person  only 
a  few  times  before  you  have  to  go  ofE 
somewhere?  You  have  to  see  that  person 
with  his  friends,  and  with  your  friends 
sometimes — ^with  his  family  and  with  yours 
— and  you  have  to  get  to  know  his  moods 
and  the  way  he  feels  about  the  things  that 
are  important  to  you.  Now  all  this  is 
changed.  I'm  finding  happiness  I  didn't 
know  existed  for  me." 

If  this  sounds  as  though  Rosemary 
Clooney's  young  sister  ever  felt  under- 
privileged, it  isn't  so.  Not  at  all.  Betty 
still  thinks  she  has  had  the  most  wonder- 
ful, the  most  exciting  and  adventurous  life 
a  girl  could  have. 

"We  just  always  loved  to  sing,"  Betty 
says.  "My  grandfather  was  Mayor  of  Mays- 
ville,  Kentucky,  for  several  terms,  and 
Rosie  and  I  always  sang  when  he  made 
his  campaign  speeches.  Her  special  num- 
ber was  'When  Your  Hair  Has  Turned  to 
Silver.'  She  certainly  could  make  it  sound 
sad  and  beautiful,  even  then.  I  sang  'Home 
on  the  Range' — you  can  tell  that  Grand- 
father was  a  Democrat,  because  that  was 
President  Roosevelt's  favorite  song.  After 
the  meetings,  we  handed  out  pamphlets 
about  Grandfather's  candidacy.  I  might 
add  that  we  were  real  little  'hams'  then, 
and  we  loved  every  minute  of  it." 

The  Clooneys  moved  to  Cincinnati, 
Ohio,  and  the  girls  went  on  singing,  for 
clubs  such  as  Rotary,  at  school  entertain- 
ments, at  church  affairs.  Rosie  was  begin- 
ning to  think  big  thoughts  and  to  carry 
Betty  along  with  her  enthusiasm.  One 
day,  after  school,  Rosie  put  a  choice  up  to 
her  younger  sister.  "We  have  thirty  cents 
between  us,  Betts,"  she  said.  "Which  would 
you  rather  do — go  downtown  to  radio  Sta- 
tion WLW  and  ask  for  an  audition,  or  get 
a  soda?" 

Betty  was  immediately  entranced  with 
the  idea  of  an  audition,  but  Rosemary  was 
beginning  to  waver.  She  really  wanted 
that  soda.  So  they  flipped  a  coin.  Betty 
won,  and  downtown  they  went,  lugging 
their  schoolbooks. 

"When  our  names  were  called,  we  sud- 
denly realized  how  scared  we  were.  Even 
Rosie,  on  whom  I  counted  for  support.  We 
sang  one  duet.  They  asked  us  to  do  an- 
other. Then  the  program  dij-ector  came 
out  of  the  control  room  and  said,  if  we 
would  take  some  lessons  in  mike  tech- 
nique, he  could  use  us  later. 

"We  told  Mother  and  she  was  willing  to 
have  us  try.  After  two  lessons,  we  got 
impatient  and  stopped.  When  we  •went 
back  to  tell  the  program  director  we  were 
ready,  he  said  we  weren't — but  he  would 
take  us,  anyhow,  and  let  us  learn  there." 


Betty  and  Rosemary  sang  together  after 
that  for  five  years,  two  of  them  at  the 
station.  When  Tony  Pastor  came  to  Cin- 
cinnati with  his  band,  he  heard  the  girls 
on  radio  and  sent  word  that  he  could  use 
one  of  them,  but  not  both.  They  held  out 
for  two,  or  none.  He  hired  them  for  the 
summer,  and  they  stayed  three  years. 

There  came  a  time,  however,  when  Betty 
began  to  grow  tired  of  the  life  that  had 
seemed  so  thrilling  to  a  fifteen-year-old. 
Now  she  was  eighteen,  and  Rosie  was 
twenty-one.  Their  uncle,  who  now  trav- 
eled with  them  most  of  the  time,  as  their 
chaperon  and  manager,  didn't  like  the  idea 
of  a  girl  of  Betty's  age  having  dates  with 
men  she  met  casually.  It  wasn't  the  same 
as  letting  her  go  out  with  the  home-town 
boys  whom  everybody  knew.  Betty  un- 
derstood his  point  of  view,  even  while  she 
resented  it  just  a  little,  and  she  began  to 
long  for  the  life  of  a  normal  young  girl, 
the  circle  of  friends  of  both  sexes,  the 
parties,  the  dates,  the  fun. 

"By  this  time,  Rosie  and  I  had  learned 
so  much  about  show  business  from  Tony 
Pastor,  to  whom  we  will  always  be  grate- 
ful. He  had  taught  us  that  it  never  pays 
to  get  too  impressed  with  yourself,  in  this 
or  in  any  business,  and  that  there  just  isn't 
any  substitute  for  hard  work.  But  I  was 
getting  a  little  tired  of  it  all,  and  I  wanted 
to  go  home. 

"First  I  told  Rosie,  and  then  the  others. 
She  understood,  and  they  did,  too.  She 
stayed  out  our  two-weeks'  notice,  and  I 
got  on  a  train  bound  for  Cincinnati." 

Soon  Rosemary  had  a  call  from  New 
York,  about  a  record  contract.  She  signed 
with  Columbia  Records  and  began  the  ca-  , 
reer  which  zoomed  so  spectacularly  with 
the  release  of  her  recording  of  "Come  On- 
A  My  House."  Betty  stayed  on  in  Cin- 
cinnati, happy  to  be  home,  relaxing  for  a 
while,  until  she  got  a  call  from  a  local  TV 
station.  She  hadn't  done  any  television  up 
to  then,  but  now  she  was  beginning  to  sing 
alone  and  she  thought  she  might  just  as 
well  try  a  new  medium  and  jump  both 
hurdles  at  once.  At  first  she  was  on  five 
times  a  week,  and  finally  it  grew  to  six- 
teen. There  were  club  engagements,  and 
the  usual  benefits  and  personal  appear- 
ances, and  before  long  she  was  buildipg 
a  career  of  her  own  which  promised  to 
lead  to  big  things. 

Suddenly,  Rosie — who  was  singing  on 
television  in  New  York — became  ill.  Betty 
was  asked  to  substitute  for  her.  She  made 
several  appearances — on  Songs  For  Sale, 
on  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  shows,  and  some 
others.  "It  was  the  first  time  I  had 
worked  in  Rosie's  place,  and  at  first  people 
referred  to  me  as  'Rosemary  Clooney's 
sister.'  Rosie  was  afraid  I  might  be  hurt 
by  this.  'Betts,'  she  would  try  to  explain 
to  me,  'it's  only  because  these  people  are 
my  friends  and  they  don't  know  you  yet.' 
By  the  time  they  stopped  calling  me 
Rosie's  sister  and  remembered  I  was  Betty 
Clooney,  no  one  was  prouder  of  me  than 
she  was." 

The  affection  of  these  two  is  Well-known 
in  show  business,  and  it  seemed  com- 
pletely fitting  that  they  should  record  the 
song  called  "Sisters,"  for  Columbia  Rec- 
ords, Rosemary's  label.  Betty  was  on  the 
West  Coast,  doing  the  Bing  Crosby  show — 
with  Gary  Crosby,  who  was  subbing  for 
his  dad — when  the  call  came. 

"We  hadn't  done  a  record  together  for 
five  years,"  Betty  recalls.  "The  only  time 
we  ever  argue  is  when  we  work  together, 
so  naturally  we  started!  Rosie  had  some 
ideas  about  harmotny.  I  had  some  ideas 
about  phrasing.  We  started  to  argue  over 
them    the    minute    we    stepped    into    the 


studio,  a.id  we  never  stopped  until  we 
walked  out  of  it!  We  got  to  the  point 
where  we  were  being  very  formal  with 
each  other— I  called  her  Rosemary  instead 
of  Rosie  and  she  began  to  say  Betty  Ann 
instead  of  Betts,  just  like  she  used  to  when 
we  were  kids  and  she  was  annoyed. 

"When  we  got  into  the  car  to  ride  home 
together,  we  looked  at  each  other  and  be- 
gan to  laugh.  'Betts,'  she  said.  'Rosie,'  I  an- 
swered. And  we  giggled  all  the  way  home. 
It  was  like  old  times.  Now  we  have  de- 
cided that  it's  a  stimulating  way  to  work, 
each  goading  the  other  to  do  her  best. 
Rosie  is  really  the  most  wonderful  sister 
a  girl  could  have,  with  not  a  trace  of 
jealousy  or  meanness  in  her.  I  think  she 
is  a  fine  actress  as  well  as  singer,  and  I 
love  seeing  her  in  movies.  As  far  as  I'm 
concerned,  she  has  jxist  everything." 

Betty  herself  has  a  brand-new  record- 
ing contract,  with  RCA  Victor  X  label— a 
new  one — for  which  she  has  already  done 
"Si  Si  Senor,"  "Ko  Ko  Mo,"  and  "Only 
Forever"  (that  last  one  a  sentimental  song 
quite  in  keeping  with  her  present  mood!). 
The  youngest  Clooney  sister — ten-year- 
old  Gail  Ann — is  following  her  big  sis- 
ters' example  and  starting  with  children's 
recordings  for  Columbia.  (Their  brother, 
now  in  the  Army,  has  a  fine  voice  but 
doesn't  expect  to  use  it  professionally,  at 
least  not  as  of  now.)  Gail  Ann  hved  in 
Holljrvvood  with  Rosemary  and  her  hus- 
band, Jose  Ferrer,  to  keep  Rosemary  com- 
pany before  the  arrival  of  her  baby. 

Recently,  Betty  flew  out  to  Hollywood 
for  a  quick  trip  to  see  Rosie  and  the  gang 
and  hear  the  newest  voice  in  the  family — 
baby  Miguel's.  "I'm  so  happy  for  Rosie," 
she  said.  "I'm  happy  for  every  girl  who 
marries  the  man  she  loves  and  has  a  fam- 
ily. That's   every   girl's   dream,   isn't   it? 

"Yes,"  she  admitted,  "there's  someone  I 
am  very  fond  of."  (The  glow  at  this  point 
became  fairly  dazzling!)  "We're  not  ready 
to  talk  about  it  yet,  but  it  has  happened, 
at  last,  to  me.  I  have  had  a  chance  to  see 
him  with  his  friends,  and  with  mine.  To 
have  him  as  a  guest  in  my  home  many 
times.  To  learn  what  things  he  thinks  are 
important,  and  to  tell  him  what  things 
are  important  to  me.  Just  as  I  always 
dreamed  of  doing  when  I  was  on  the  road." 

In  the  meantime,  Betty  loves  the  little 
apartment  in  New  York,  near  the  CBS 
studio,  where  she  and  her  mother  keep 
house.  ("My  mother  is  really  indispensa- 
ble. She  takes  my  telephone  calls,  keeps 
the  house  and  my  whole  life  running 
smoothly.")  Betty  loves  the  dinners  at 
home,  instead  of  dining  in  restaurants  and 
hotels  all  the  time.  She  loves  sitting 
around,   watching   TV,   listening   to   radio. 

She  has  a  small  but  flourishing  horse- 
breeding  business  now,  down  in  the  old 
hometown  of  Maysville.  Her  manager- 
uncle  helped  her  decide  on  it.  "You  love 
horses,"  he  said,  "so  it  would  be  something 
you  could  put  your  heart  into."  Betty  has, 
and  there  have  been  profits  so  far  in  both 
money  (a  modest  sum)  and  enjoyment. 
Right  now,  under  her  uncle's  management, 
they  have  three  two-year-olds,  four  brood 
mares,  one  stallion,  and  three  yearlings. 
"This  year  we  will  have  three  horses  run- 
ning— because  it  seems,  this  time,  that  o\ir 
three  Uttle  ones  can  be  better  used  as 
racers — but  mostly  we're  a  breeding  farm," 
Betty  explains. 

Elnthusiastic  as  she  is  about  her  "breed- 
ing farm,"  Betty  is  still  more  excited  about 
her  current  singing  assignments.  She  loves 
meeting  people  and  hearing  what  they  like 
about  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  shows,  why 
they're  happier  for  watching  and  listening 
to  Bob  and  his  talented  troupe.  "It's  won- 
derful to  have  a  small  part  in  all  this,"  she 
breathes.  "In  fact,  everything  in  my  life 
is  wonderful  right  now!" 


America's  Famous  Fashion  Guide/ 


Aldens  604-page 

FALL  CATALOG 

Save  most!  Shop  easier  af  home  . . .  from  greater  selections! 
It's  FREE  ...  and  only  at  Aldens!  No  strings,  not  a  loaner— this  big  Catalog 
is  your  personal  fashion  guide  to  use  and  enjoy.  See  all  that's  new  for  a 
lovelier  you  in  over  250  pages  of  fashion  news  from  New  York,  Paris  and 
Hollywood  I  N  ewest  fabrics,  colors,  sizes  so  right  for  you.  iVIore  than  300  pages 
for  family  and  home,  too  . . .  prices  so  low  you'll  be  amazed!  Send  now  for 
your  FREE  Fall  Catalog.  Quantity  limited  so  hurry.  See  how  you  can  dress 
better,  live  better  for  less . . .  how  you  save  more,  pay  as  you  use  on  easiest 
terms ...  get  money-back  satisfaction  always  when  you  shop  the  modern 
catalog  way  at  Aldens!  DON'T  DELAY— clip  and  mail  coupon  today! 


•  148  pages  in 
glorious  color 

•  First  in 
fashion 
since  1889 

Chicago  80,  Illinois 


PASTE  TO  POSTCARD. ..MAIL  NOW 


ALDENS,  Dept.  437,  Box  8340A,  Chicago  80, 
Please  rush  my  FREE  Aldens  big  Fall  Catalog. 


Print  NAME 


Print  ADDRESS  or  R.F.D.  NO. 


Print  POST  OFFICE  (town) 


STATE 


1^  How  to  Make  Money  with 
[  /7^^  Simple  Cartoons'' 


ARTOONISTS"   EXCHANGE 
Dept.  598  Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 


THIS  AD  IS 
WORTH  MONEY! 

Let  us  show  you  how  to  make  big  money  in  your 
spare  time  by  helping  us  take  orders  for  maga- 
zine subscriptions.  Write  today  for  FREE  money- 
making   information.  There  is  no  obligation. 

MACFADDEN  PUBLICATIONS 

205  E.  42  St..  N.  Y.  17.  N.  Y. 


SELL    EXCLUSIVE    NB^^ 
"Imperial  Gold' 

TALL  CHRISTMAS  CARDS 


Make  7Sc  on  Every  $1.25  Box— 
$€0.00  Easy  On  SO  Boxes  ! 

Only  Cardinal  makes  it  ao  easy  to  earn !  Fall 
150%prof5t  on  "Imperial  Gold".  Exclusive  Gift 
Wraps  &  Ribbons  By-The-Yard,  30-Card  $1 
Assortment,  Personalized  Christmas  Cards  at 
40  for  $1.25  and  up,  250  card  assortments, 
stationery,  gifts  —  many  not  available  any- 
where else.  Also  famous  Doehla  line  catalog. 
Extra  Cash  Bonus;  Guarantee  assures  up  to 
15c  more  profit  per  box.  1-FREE-     y^^  _ 

WlTH-EVERY-3  Sample  Offer.  Send  /-^  Guaranteed 
coupon  for  Free  Trial  samples  NOW!  y Good  Hoosekeeping 


m 


Cardinal  Craftsmen 

1400  state  Av.,  Dept.29S,  Cincinnati  14,  Ohio 

Send  money-making  kit  of  5  assortments  on 
approval,  FREE  Personalized  Samples, 
other  FREE  Offers. 


NuTJie  ... 
Address  . 


City State. 


DANCING  SHOES  — SUPPLIES 

Toe  $5.95,  Pads  &  Ribbons  $1.00;  Ballet 
S3. 29,  Tap  Shoes  With  Toe  Taps,  To  Size  3. 
$4.95,  Larger  S5.45;  Acrobatic  SI. 39,  Crepe 
Sole  $1.95.  Send  Shoe  Size  and  Foot  Outline. 
Leotards  $3.85.  Sheer  or  Mesh  Opera  Hose 
$4.95,  Mesh  Tights  $7.45.  Hula  Skirts  $3.25. 
Send  Check  or  Money  Order,  No  C.O.D.'s  Please. 

BATON  — DRUM    CORPS    SUPPLIES 

SKATING    SKIRTS— Roller    or    Ice 

Ck)mplete    Catalog-    15c    (applied    to    purchase) 

QUINCON   DANCE  SUPPUES 

7    FOSTER   ST..    Dept.    R,    QUINCY   69,    MASS. 


...Train  Af  Home  For 
A  WELL  PAID  CAREER 


PRACTICAL  NURSING 


Help  fill  the  nrsent  Deed  for  Trained  Practical       , 
Nurses.  If  you  are  between  18  and  65,  it's  easy  to  I 
train  at  home  in  your  spare  time  to  take  your  place  in  this  respect- 
ed calling.   Many  earn  while  learning'.  High  school  is  not  needed. 
Nurse's  equipment  included.  Mail  this  ad  today  for  FREE  Facta . 
Wayne  School  Of  Practical  Nursing, 
2525  Sheffield  Ave.,    Desk  E-85,    Chicago  14,  111. 
Please  rush  FEIEE  FACTS  and  Sample  Lesson  Paees. 

NAME 


-Full  Address. 


TOWELS 


Without  spending  a  penny 

you  can  get  such  famous 

^'merchandise  as  Mirro  Aluminum, 

Bates  Bed  Spreads,  Detecto 

Scales,  Hoover  Cleaners,  Chatham 

Blankets,  Waltham  Watches  and 

hundreds  of  other  things  you've 

always  wanted. 

Become  an  American  Homes  Club 

Secretary  . . .  it's  easy  . . .  it's  fun 

, .  there's  nothing  for  you  to  buy 

. . .  nothing  for  you  fo  self. 

Write  for  big  color  catalog 

AMERICAN  HOMES  CLUB  prAl^ToEPT'lBrBANGbTME." 
Please  send  FREE  COLOR  CATALOG  at  no  obligation. 

Name 

Street  &  No 

City 


.State. 


87 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED. . .  hidesplmpleswhUe  if  works 


Meet  Linda  Porter 


Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  ot 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely  im- 
proved while  using  CLEARASIL. 
Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil  actu- 
ally starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the 
oils  that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  clearasil  s 
antiseptic  action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria 
that  can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored 
to  hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless ...  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 
America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 

medication . . .  because  '^'-i^,'^''r t'Jar  ANTFFn 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTttU 
to  work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors  tests  or 
money  back.  Only  59!*  and  98(>.  At  all  druggists- 
Get  clearasil  today. 


Now  also  available  in  Canada  (slightly  more) 


Corns 


Sore  Toes, 
Tender 
Spots 


Pain  Stops 
FAST 

No  waiting!  Super- 
Soft  Dr.  Scholl's  Zino-pads  stop  pain  at  its 
source  ever  so  fast  .  .  .  remove  corns  one  of 
the  fastest  ways  known  to  medical  science  . . . 
stop  corns  before  they  can  develop  —  ease 
new  or  tight  shoes  .  .  .  pre-  h^ — -m- 
vent  sore  toes,  blisters.  No  ^^^  m 
other  method  does  all  this!  ^^  ' 
For  FREE  sample,  write  1 
Scholl's,  Inc.,  Chicago  10, 


mtfDrSchollsZinopads 


{Continued  from  page  35) 
Patricia,  who  is  not  quite  a  year  and  a 
half  old)  will  greet  Gloria  as  the  same 
uncomplicated  child  she  left  that  morn- 
ing— Tish  being  still  too  young  to  be 
touched  by  television. 

The  way  things  are  now  in  the  Louis 
household,  in  a  big  apartment  not  far  from 
the  NBC -TV  studios  where  Gloria  works, 
either  or  both  of  the  boys  may  end  up  as 
producers  or  directors  or  even  as  co- 
actors  of  hers  at  some  later  date — although 
Ashley  at  the  moment  is  more  interested 
in  sports  and  in  being  a  Cub  Scout  (Gloria 
is  a  Den  Mother) .  Ashley  is  also  a  studious 
little  boy  who  likes  to  read  and  to  play 
the  piano,  but  it's  he  who  takes  over  when 
Gloria  practices  her  narration  and  some  of 
the  commercials  on  a  tape  recorder  at 
home.    And  he  handles  it  like  a  pro. 

"Ashley  really  has  to  run  the  recorder," 
she  says,  "for  the  simple  reason  that  I 
don't  know  how.  Boy-like,  before  I  could 
even  begin  to  figure  it  out,  he  had  it  all 
mastered.  So  he  is  the  'producer' — until 
I'm  finished,  and  J.  C.  takes  over  to  do 
some  impromptu  commercials  of  his  own. 
J.  C.  never  offers  his  mythical  audience 
anything  less  than  'the  giant  family  size' — 
especially  when  he  decides  the  product 
should  be  candy  bars  or  cookie  mixes." 

To  J.  C,  everything  that  happens  on 
television  is  very  real.  Now  that  he  has 
decided  to  be  Superman,  he  hasn't  been 
able  to  understand  why  he,  too,  cannot 
fly.  "How  would  you  like  to  untrain  a 
child  who  believes  he  can  take  off  from 
any  convenient  chair  or  table?"  Gloria 
asks.  "That's  what  Jack  and  I  have  had 
to  do.  We  let  him  jump  off  the  kitchen 
table  and  get  a  few  bruises  so  he  would 
understand  that  Superman  has  a  few  tricks 
up  his  cape  that  small  boys  have  yet  to 
learn.  Now  he  seems  satisfied  merely  to 
strut  in  a  Superman  outfit,  and  he  doesn't 
even  mind  when  the  oWer  childre-i  rib 
him  about  the  cape.  He  lives  his  role!" 

Gloria  understands  this  thespian  urge  in 
her  offspring.  She  always  had  it  herself. 
At  seventeen,  already  a  tall  attractive 
blonde  with  lovely  gray  eyes,  she  entered 
a  singing  contest  at  The  Nine  O'clock  Club 
in  New  York,  a  sort  of  junior  Stork  Club 
owned  by  Sherman  Billingsley.  "The 
children  of  the  people  who  went  to  the 
Stork  Club  used  to  like  to  dance  at  the 
Nine  O'Clock  and,  after  I  won  a  three- 
weeks'  singing  enffapement  there,  abso- 
lutely nothing  could  have  held  me  back." 

Through  a  professional  performer  at  the 
club,  she  was  introduced  to  an  agent  and 
got  a  few  minor  engagements.  Most  of 
all,  of  course,  she  wanted  to  sing  on  the 
Broadway  stage.  Lew  Brown  made  an 
appointment  to  audition  her  for  his  play, 
"Yokel  Boy,"  took  one  look  at  her  childish 
face  and  said,  "Go  home,  little  girl,  and 
come  back  to  see  me  when  you  grow  up." 
Cut  to  the  quick  by  this  lack  of  confidence 
in  her  woman-of-the-worldliness  (she  had 
been  sure,  up  to  this  point,  that  she  looked 
at  least  eighteen!),  she  kept  the  rebuff  to 
herself  and  said  not  a  word  to  her  parents. 
She  turned  up  again  next  day,  however, 
in  Mr.  Brown's  office,  as  if  to  assure  him 
that  if  she  could  take  the  slings  and  arrows 
of  show  business  she  was  certainly  old 
enough  to  be  in  it. 

"I  was  too  scared  to  say  much,  but  I 
didn't  have  to.  I  guess  he  knew  he  had 
met  his  match.  He  hired  me  for  the  chorus, 
in  which  I  did  practically  nothing,  and  so 
did  it  well  enough." 

Originally  her  name  was  Gloria  Hope 
Trope,  but  the  last  name  got  to  be  a 
nuisance,  because  everyone  seemed  to 
stumble  over  it  and  didn't  believe  it  was 


her  real  name  anyway.  So  she  dropped 
the  Trope,  and  was  known  as  Gloria  Hope. 
When  she  auditioned  for  Dick  Rodgers,  he 
gave  her  a  chorus  job  in  the  Rodgers  and 
Hart  musical,  "Higher  and  Higher."  This 
time  she  had  more  to  do,  and  did  it  better. 
After  that,  things  were  easier.  She  sang 
with  Ray  Heatherton  and  his  band  in  the 
Rainbow  Room  on  top  of  the  RCA  Build- 
ing, in  Radio  City.  She  played  the  femi- 
nine lead,  the  wistful  Kathy,  in  "The  Stu- 
dent Prince,"  on  Broadway  for  three 
months  and  on  tour  for  a  year. 

"My  mother  glued  herself  to  my  side  all 
this  time,  picking  me  up  at  the  theater  at 
night,  traveling  with  me  when  I  went  on 
tour,"  she  recalls.  "Show  business  was 
new  in  my  family — my  sister  never  had 
theatrical  ambitions,  is  married  and  has 
three  children.  My  brother  was  a  flier 
who  was  killed  in  an  Air  Force  flight  in 
the  Pacific,  after  the  war  was  over.  So  far 
as  I  know,  there  was  no  family  precedent 
for  my  career.  But  I  was  determined  to  be 
a  star,  and  I  finally  landed  in  Hollywood 
for  a  few  months,  where  I  made  sev- 
eral pictures — 'Anchors  Aweigh,'  'Women's 
Army,'  and  a  lead  part  opposite  Preston 
Foster  in  'Twice  Blessed.'  'Then  something 
happened  that  brought  me  back  to  New 
York." 

The  "something"  that  happened  was 
falling  in  love — with  a  tall,  dark  and 
rugged-looking  young  fellow  by  the  name 
of  Jack  Louis,  whom  she  had  met  three 
years  before  on  a  blind  date.  She  had 
thought  at  first  that  he  was  too  serious, 
even  a  trifle  stuffy  for  such  a  young  man. 
In  fact,  she  wasn't  at  all  sure  that  she  liked 
him,  except  that  he  was  such  a  wonderful 
dancer  and  she  did  like  to  dance.  So  they 
began  to  date,  but  it  was  a  geographically 
inconvenient  sort  of  friendship  almost  from 
the  first.  She  would  have  to  go  off,  on 
tours  or  singing  engagements.  He  went 
into  the  Army.  Whenever  they  were  in  the 
same  city  they  went  dancing,  but  it  wasn't 
too  often.  Often  enough,  however,  for 
Gloria  to  discover  that  Jack  had  unsus- 
nected  qualities  she  liked  very  much — 
humor,  kindness  and  sweetness. 

"I  think  I  was  glad  to  go  to  California 
partly  because  I  wanted  to  find  out  if  I 
was  really  in  love  with  Jack — and  if  ab- 
sence would  make  me  sure  of  it.  You 
might  say  that  I  chased  him  until  he 
caught  up  with  me!  When  he  finally  did, 
we  both  knew  we  were  in  love  and  he  put 
the  decision  up  to  me  squarely— to  give 
up  a  movie  career  and  come  back  to  New 
York  and  marry  him,  or  to  forget  him. 
Of  course  I  came  back — although  some- 
times I  like  to  think  I  gave  up  a  'big  Holly- 
wood career'  all  for  love!  It's  a  nice 
thought,  anyhow.  We  had  a  real  family 
wedding  in  New  York,  the  kind  every  girl 
looks  forward  to.  Jack's  folks  came  from 
their  home  in  Little  Rock,  Arkansas,  and 
all  my  family  were  present." 

There  had  been  no  objection  to  Gloria's 
going  on  in  the  theater,  but  after  Ashley 
was  born  she  wanted  to  spend  as  much 
time  as  she  could  at  home.  "To  remain 
in  the  theater  meant  being  away  from  my 
baby  every  night  and,  besides,  I  didn't 
want  Jack  to  be  one  of  those  husbands 
who  has  to  hang  around  backstage  wait- 
ing for  his  wife.  He  is  a  businessman,  a 
stockbroker,  and  when  he  comes  home  at 
night  he  is  entitled  to  find  his  family  wait- 
ing. So  I  began  to  think  about  getting  into 
television,  which  was  then  getting  more 
and  more  important.  I  tried  out  for  my 
first  TV  job,  a  cooking  program.  By  the 
time  J.  C.  was  born,  I  was  determined  to 
stay  in  TV  and  to  forget  the  stage,  all 
my  old  dreams  of  stardom  deserted.    Now 


I 


I  had  a  home  and  family,  as  well  as  a 
career  to  consider.  After  a  year  of  trying, 
I  got  a  job  on  the  Hazel  Scott  show,  doing 
the  commercials." 

Little  by  little,  her  telephone  began  to 
ring,  with  job  offers.  Dramatic  shows  were 
coming  into  their  own  on  television,  and 
Gloria  began  to  get  roles  in  one  after  the 
other,  stacking  up  some  seventy-five  dif- 
ferent parts  to  date.  More  and  more  she 
was  called  upon  to  make  commercial  an- 
nouncements, having  the  happy  faculty  of 
talking  to  her  listeners  as  one  housewife 
to  another,  with  complete  sincerity,  be- 
cause she  believed  in  the  products  she 
described.  Last  January,  when  she  was 
asked  to  do  the  commercials  and  be  the 
hostess-narrator  on  Way  Of  The  World — a 
dramatic  daytime  TV  program  which  tells 
a  complete  story  every  week  or  two  and 
introduces  a  new  group  of  actors  playing 
a  new  cast  of  characters  for  each  story — it 
seemed  like  an  exciting  combination  of 
two  things  she  enjoys. 

This  summer  Ashley  and  J.  C.  will  go 


of?  to  camp,  and  Gloria  will  take  the  babj' 
to  a  little  nearby  park  during  the  lazy 
summer  afternoons.  Weekends,  they  will 
go  off  with  Daddy  to  a  beach  club,  for 
swimming  and  relaxing.  Weekdays,  she 
will  be  up  and  out  right  after  an  early 
breakfast,  leaving  Tish  with  her  excellent 
nurse — and,  evenings,  she  will  go  on  study- 
ing her  scripts,  missing  the  noise  and  ex- 
citement the  boys  create.  Then  soon  it 
will  be  fall  and  the  big,  comfortable  apart- 
ment will  be  lively  again. 

Sometimes,  Gloria  will  bring  home  a 
particularly  nice  fan  letter  and  let  Jack 
and  the  boys  read  it— and  J.  C.,  in  particu- 
lar, will  be  impressed  because  she  gets 
fan  mail,  just  like  Superman.  "Why,  you're 
famous!"  he  will  probably  say  to  her,  just 
as  he  did  the  first  time  he  discovered  that 
his  mother  was  a  television  star — although 
certainly  not  in  a  class  with  a  fellow  by 
the  name  of  Clark  Kent! 

Someday  he'll  learn,  as  so  many  others 
have,  that  Gloria  Louis  is  in  a  class  all  by 
herself. 


Always  in  Harmony 


I 


(Continued  from  page  31) 
was  nine — and  took  to  the  trees." 

While  Chris  could  be  found  on  Route 
25,  Dot  was  usually  perched  on  the  top 
branch  of  the  tallest  tree.  She  could  skin- 
the-cat  on  a  medium-sized  cloud.  She  led 
the  neighborhood  children  up  and  down 
the  trees. 

Actually,  both  Dot  and  Chris  have  a 
^reputation  for  clamming  up.  But,  if  you 
said  Chris  were  pianissimo,  then  you 
might  call  Dot  double  pianissimo.  The 
sister  who  likes  to  talk  is  Phyl.  She  sizzles 
like  bacon  in  a  hot  skillet.  She's  the  one 
who  always  answers  the  phone.  Meets 
with  song-pluggers.  Makes  or  breaks 
dates.  Keeps  in  contact  with  agents  and 
pubUcists  and  publishers.  She  is  vivacious, 
lovely  and  cheerful,  but  also  conscientious 
and  a  worrier.  Phyl  always  insists  on 
listening  to  tapes  of  their  broadcasts  and 
gets  worked-up  about  the  smallest  error. 
1^^  "Phyl's  early  years  were  noted  for  her 
!^B  romances,"  says  Dot.  "She  had  as  many  as 
three  fiances  at  a  time.  She  started  right 
after  she  got  out  of  the  playpen."  At  the 

•  age  of  six,  Phyl  proposed  to  a  playmate 
and  was  accepted.  Instantly,  they  headed 
for  Kentucky,  where  they  could  be  mar- 
ried with  twenty-four-hour  residence. 
They  were  thirteen  blocks  closer  to  the 
j^L  state  line  when  friends  of  Phyl's  parents 
I^P  came  by  and  asked  her  where  she  was 
going.  She  spilled  the  beans,  and  the 
adults  took  her  home. 

With  three  such  extraordinary  gals,  one 
would  expect  extraordinary  parents,  and 
so  it  was  and  is.  Asa  McGuire,  a  steel 
worker,  is  a  mixture  of  Cherokee  and,  of 
course,  Irish.  He  is  a  six-footer,  very 
handsome,  with  coal-black  hair  and  eyes. 
Lily  McGuire,  of  German  extraction, 
stands  just  an  inch  shorter  than  her 
daughters,  and  she  is  an  ordained  minister. 
She  founded  the  First  Church  of  God  in 
Miamisburg,  Ohio,  and  served  as  pastor 
until  her   retirement   last   year. 

The  girls  called  themselves  "PKs" — 
preacher's  kids — and,  as  such,  found  they 
were  expected  to  be  constantly  on  good 
behavior,  take  on  more  responsibilities  in 
church  w^ork,  and  lead  a  more  restricted 
social  Ufe.  On  weekdays,  they  had  to  be  in 
at  ten-thirty  and,  on  weekends,  it  was 
eleven.  There  was  no  card  playing,  and 
when  the  girls  got  a  Monopoly  game — 
they  thought  they  were  really  hving  it  up. 

"Although  our  folks  were  very  strict," 
says  Dot,  "they  were  understanding  and 
had  a  good  sense  of  humor.  We  always  had 
a  lot  of  fun  with  them.  And  Mother  was 
like  a  sister  to  us.  When  we  broke  a  rule 


or  did  something  wrong,  she  would  just 
sit  down  and  talk  about  it.  There  were 
no  penalties  or  punishments." 

Chi-is  studied  piano  for  nine  years.  Phyl 
studied  voice.  Dot  learned  to  play  piano — 
and  even  tenor  sax,  so  she  could  march 
in  the  school  band.  For  many  years,  the 
girls  sang  for  their  own  pleasure  and  then 
began  to  sing  at  church  or,  by  request,  at 
funerals  and  weddings.  Actually,  they 
never  sang  a  pop  tune  in  public  until  1950 
— but,  in  the  four  years  preceding,  they 
got  their  most  intense  training.  About 
1946,  other  preachers  heard  them  sing  and 
the  trio  was  in  constant  demand  all  over 
the  country,  at  evangelical  meetings. 

The  first  hint  of  what  was  in  the  future 
for  them  occurred  on  a  Sunday  morning 
in  Dayton,  after  they  had  sung  in  church. 
The  services  had  been  broadcast  and  Karl 
Taylor,  a  top  Midwestern  booking  agent, 
heard  the  trio  and  rushed  down  to  the 
church:     "Do  you  sing  popular  music?" 

"Never  touch  it,"   the   girls   said. 

"Well,  if  you  ever  change  your  minds, 
please  come  to  see  me." 

It  wouldn't  have  been  proper  to  sing 
pop  tunes  one  night  and  hymns  the  next. 
Aside  from  this,  the  girls  had  several  dis- 
tinct reservations  about  show  business, 
fearing  it  was  a  sinful  way  of  life.  That's 
probably  why  the  trio  started  in  show 
business  under  the  most  sterile  conditions 
possible — through   a  hospital  door. 

It  happened  this  way.  In  1950,  a  friend 
sent  a  home  recording  of  the  trio  to  the 
late  Richard  Maxwell,  who  at  the  time 
was  scouting  the  country  for  talent  to 
entertain  at  veterans'  hospitals.  Mr.  Max- 
well gave  one  listen,  phoned  the  girls 
and  made  a  date  to  meet  them  in  Dayton. 
There  he  persuaded  them  it  would  be 
proper   to   sing   ballads  for  veterans. 

"We  were  to  sing  a  couple  of  pop  songs 
and  then  go  into  our  repertoire  of  hymns," 
Phyllis  reminisces.  "Trouble  was  that 
the  boys  asked  for  more  and  more  pop 
tunes,  and  you  don't  refuse  the  requests  of 
bedridden  men." 

They  got  to  meet  other  people  in  show 
business  and  came  to  the  conclusion  that 
it  wasn't  so  sinful,  after  all.  After  nine 
months  of  touring,  they  returned  to  Ohio, 
looked  up  Karl  'Taylor  and  said,  "Book 
us."  That  was  in  1951  and,  within  a 
year,  they  were  to  be  celebrities. 

At  first  they  sang  club  dates  and  then 
with  Karl  Taylor's  orchestra.  One  day 
they  went  up  to  the  WLW-TV  studios  to 
audition  for  the  program  manager,  Neal 
Van  Els.  The  girls  got  a  program  of  their 
own,  and  Phyllis  got  herself  a  husband — 


'^  CtJIing  AH  Women? 


'       SHOW  FRIENDS 

NEW  TALL  STYLE 

Christmas  &  All  Occasion 

GREETING  CARD-^ 

ASSORTMENTS  ( 

,  folks  are  wild  about ^^ 


Hew  1955  „,*  19SS 

GOlO  EMBOSSED  jaU  il-CARO 

«  *  ■  I     r  &RD  ^  0  ■■  H  M  te  Christmas  Ass  t. 

T^^}    .ass"**  ■•^^  with90ld-l.n«> 


Make 

*50-$75 

-»100 


EXTRA 
MONEY 


New  1955 

Christmas 

Matching 

GIFT 

WRAP 

M  EnsembI* 


■itFEll^l, 

"ACTION" 

COMIC 

Christmas 
Ass't. 


Pni^l^  77  Name  imprinted   , 
rllEE    SAMPLES  of 

i  Christmas  Cards,  Stationery,  Notes,  Napkins 


179  New  Ways 

To  Make  Money 

for  yourself,  club  or  church! 
Take  easy  orders  spare  time 
for  amazing  value  Christmas, 
year  'round  box  assortments, 
exquisite  novelties,  personal 
gold  stamped  items.  FREE 
Personal  Christmas  Card  al- 
bum.   No  experience  needed. 


Start  A  Greeting  Card  and 
Gift  Shop  At  Home 


MAKE  FRIENDLY  SOCIAL  CALLS.  Profits  to  100% 
plus  cash  bonus.  New  Party  Plan  increases  m- 
come.    Have  money  for  new  clothes,  furmshmgs. 


FUND  RAISING  PLAN  — PREMIUM  OFFERS 
Make  up  to  $1.00  per  box! 


ONE  MONEY  MAKER  SAYS:  "I  have  been 
selling  your  cards  for  almost  two  years  and  I 
have  made  enough  money  to  buy  a  lot  of  things 
I  have  wanted." — Diane   Carey   of   Illinois 


Let  us  send  you  fqr  FREE  TRIAL 
EVERYTHING  YOU  NEED  to  get  started 


WRITE    TODAY 

for  actual  boxes  on 
approval  and  FREE 
48-page  full  color 
illustrated  catalog. 
If  outfit  does  not 
make  money  for  you 
in  a  jiffy,  return  it 
at  our  expense. 

New  England  Art  Publishers 
North   Abington.   821.    Mass. 
iHHMiSer.d  No  Money — Moil  Coupon  Now  h  ■§ 

NEW    ENGLAND    ART    PUBLISHERS 

North  Abington,  821.  Mass. 
Please  send  me  at  once  Feature 
assortments  on  approval,  free  sam- 
ples Persona]  Christmas  Cards. 
Stationeri',  Notes.  Napkins,  free 
Catalo?:.  SellinfT  Guide.  Premium 
Offers  and  details  of  your  wonder- 
ful   extra  mone\-  plan. 


Name. 


D 


Check  here  if  writing  for  club  or  church 
organization    interested    in    raising^    funds. 

■  ■'No    Risk    On    Your   Part"""" 


89 


MAGNEYIC 
POT  HOLDERS 


90 


Place  these 
quilted 

magnetic  pot 
holders  flat 

against  any  metal  surface 
(stove,   refrigerator,  metal 
cabinets,  etc.).  Presto!  They 
"stay  put"— ready  and   handy 
to  use  .  .  .  flip  them  back 
against  the  metal-and  they 
stay  in  place... as  decorative 
as  they  are  useful  .  .  .  tiny 
magnets  are  invisible  and  will 
last  forever . .  .  washable  and 
rust  proof  ...  no  modern 
kitchen  should  be  without 
them... makes  a  stunning  gift 
.  .  .  Order  yours  NOW!  We  pay 
postage!  Use  coupon. 


"TWIN 
KITTENS" 


only 

$125 

I  a  pair 


World  Wide 

63  Central  Ave.,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

/  enclose  $.  .  .  .for.  .  ."Twin  Kifiens" 

Pot  Holders. 

Name 

Street 

City Zone.  .  .  .State 

Send  cash  or  money  order. 


of  simple  care  in  minor  injuries 

em-sff/ws 

May  avoid  terrible  infection 


I 


Apply  germ-arresting 
OIL-0-SOL  at  once. 
Helps  control  infec- 
tion, ease  pain,  speed 
healing.  At  your  drug 
store-  MOSSO'S 

OIL*0*SOL 


MAKE  $S0-$60  A  WEEK 

You  can  learn  practical  nursing  at  home 
in  spare  time.  Course  endorsed  by  phy- 
sicians.  Thousands  of  graduates.  56th 
yr.  One  graduate  has  charge  of  10-bed 
hospital.    Another    saved    $400    while 
learning.    Equipment    included.    Men, 
women    18    to    60.    High    school    not 
required.  Easy  tuition  payments.  Trial  plan.  Write  today. 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF     NURSING 
Dept.  28.  25   East  Jackson   Blvd.,  Chicago  4,   III. 
Please  «end  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

A'ome 

City State Age 

YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAD 


ti-H.lrlM-HH 


(S.  D.)".  ». 


As  hundreds  of  thousands  of  users 
have  learned,  Siroil  tends  to  re- 
move psoriasis  crusts  and  scales 
on    outer    layer    of   skin.    Light 
applications  help  control  recurring 
lesions.  Siroil  doesn't  stain  cloth- 
ng  or  bed  linens.  Oflfered  on 
two  -  weeks  -  satisfaction  •  or  - 
i  1\    money-refunded    basis.    22 
'"Mi^^k  years  of  successful  results. 
Write  for  free  booklet. 


'?Hu  t^OH/^  t<y- 


SIROiL 


AT  ALL  DRUG   STORES 

Siroil  laborotories  inc.,  Dept.  M-76,  Santa  Monica,  Colli. 


Neal  Van  Els.  "We  knew  Neal  was  the  real 
thing,"  Dot  says.  "She  gave  up  all  her 
other  fiances  before  she  even  proposed." 
Their  TV  show  was  aired  for  thirty-nine 
weeks,  and  the  girls  put  in  twenty-two 
weeks  in  the  supper  club  at  the  Van 
Cleave  Hotel.  And  then  it  started:  Fans 
and  guests  at  the  hotel  asked  why  they 
didn't  go  to  New  York  and  audition  for 
some  of  the  major  television  shows,  par- 
ticularly Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts. 
"We  had  never  thought  that  way,"  Chris 
says.  "We  were  earning  our  living  doing 
something  we  enjoyed.  That  was  all  that 
it  meant." 

One  night,  during  an  intermission,  the 
girls  took  a  walk  around  the  block.  Sud- 
denly, Dot  said,  "Let's  go  to  New  York." 
"I'm  for  it,"  Chris  said. 
Phyllis  had  to  be  convinced,  and  they 
convinced  her.  But  first  they  made  an 
agreement:  If  they  failed,  they  would  dis- 
band as  a  trio.  That  would  be  the  end. 
They  didn't  flop.  They  hardly  had  a 
chance  to  flounder.  Almost  immediately, 
they  got  a  job  with  Kate  Smith  for  eight 
weeks.  They  were  a  smashing  success  on 
the  Talent  Scouts  show  in  December  of 
1951.  After  a  week,  before  they  left  for 
Ohio,  Arthur  said  he'd  be  phoning  them. 
In  January,  the  call  came  and,  before 
the  end  of  the  month,  the  McGuire  trio  was 
adopted  into  the  family  of  Little  Godfreys. 
But  the  girls  were  real  hayseeds  when 
they  first  got  to  New  York.  So  much  so, 
it  almost  lost  Chris  her  future  husband. 
"We  were  at  the  Astor  Hotel  one  after- 
noon, trying  to  get  tickets  to  a  musical, 
and  the  broker  was  sold  out.  A  man  stand- 
ing by  politely  introduced  himself,  handed 
us  his  card  and  said  if  we  came  up  to  his 
office  he  could  get  us  tickets." 

The  man  was  John  Teeter.  He  is  Execu- 
tive Director  of  the  Damon  Runyon  Can- 
cer Fund  and  his  office  was  in  the  hotel. 
At  the  time  he  had  tickets, for  a  benefit 
performance  of  "South  Pacific,"  but  the 
girls  figured  him  for  a  sharpie.  (It  should 
be  noted  that  he  neither  looks  nor  acts 
like  a  sharpie.  He  is  slim  and  dresses 
conservatively  and  is  intelligent  and  quite 
business-like.)  Finally,  the  girls  figured 
that,  if  they  went  up  to  his  office  three- 
strong,  they  could  just  about  hold  their 
own  in  a  pinch.  But  he  didn't  pinch  and, 
in  fact,  was  so  gracious  that  he  invited 
all  three  to  be  his  guests  at  the  theater. 
"He  took  us  all  out  once  or  twice  a 
week,"  Phyl  recalls.  "He  would  ask  where 
we  wanted  to  go,  and  we  would  mention 
a  place  we'd  read  about.  We  had  no  idea 
then  how  expensive  it  all  was.  He  was 
so  nice,  but  I  think  we  about  bankrupted 
him!" 

The   triple-dating   went   on   for   months 
until     one     evening    when     John    Teeter 
called.    Phyl  answered  the  phone,  as  usual, 
but  he  asked  for  Chris.     While  Chris  got 
on  the  phone,  Phyl  turned  to  Dot  and  said, 
"I  wonder  where  he  is  taking  us  tonight?" 
And    Dot    said,    "What    shall    we    wear?" 
Then  Chris  got  off  the  phone,  and  Phyl 
asked,  "Well,  where  are  we  going?" 
"He  invited  only  me." 
"But  we  always  go,"  Phyl  said.    But  they 
didn't.    Not  again. 

About  a  year  later,  John  and  Chris  mar- 
ried. In  December  of  1952.  October  of 
that  same  year,  Neal  came  down  from  Ohio 
and  m.arried  Phyl.  Dot's  wedding  was  in 
July  of  1951.  She  had  married  a  school 
sweetheart,  Johnny  Brown,  who  was  and 
is  in  the  Army. 

Dot  and  Johnny  and  Phyl  and  Neal  and 
Tinker,  a  toy  poodle,  share  the  same  duplex 
apartment  in  the  East  Fifties.  Upstairs, 
they  have  three  bedrooms  and  three  baths. 
Downstairs,  instead  of  dining  and  living 
rooms,  they  have  two  "living  rooms"  with 
a  television  receiver  in  each,  so  that  there 
is  never  any  conflict  about  program  choice. 


"We  brought  our  furniture  in  from  an- 
other apartment,"  Dot  says,  "and  we  don't 
take  it  seriously."  Most  of  it  is  simple  mod- 
ern, with  an  old  grand  piano  thrown  in. 
The  living  room  has  a  high  ceiling  and 
fair  enough  acoustics,  so  the  girls  can 
practice  here,  most  evenings. 

Chris  and  John  Teeter  live  about  ten 
blocks  north  of  her  sisters.  She  has  two 
sons  by  a  previous  marriage.  Harold, 
twelve,  is  in  a  private  school  in  Massa- 
chusetts. Asa,  eight  and  bright  as  a  new 
penny,  lives  with  Chris  and  John. 

Chris — a  fashion  expert  who  buys  all  of 
the  trio's  clothes,  including  undies — has 
furnished  her  apartment  predominantly  in 
black  and  gray,  the  same  colors  she  favors 
in  dress.  The  furnishings  are  modern. 
A  raised  bamboo  blind  displays  a  dra- 
matic view  of  Manhattan's  skyscrapers. 

You  might  say  Chris  is  the  "detonator" 
for  each  day's  work.  At  seven  A.  M.,  she 
phones  Dot  to  discuss  what  they  will  wear. 
Dot  passes  orders  for  the  day  on  to  Phyllis. 

They  meet  for  rehearsal  at  eight-thirty, 
dressed  alike,  with  bright-red  lipstick  and 
red  fingernail  polish.  They  are  extreme- 
ly careful  about  jewelry.  What  might  be 
in  good  taste  for  one  can  look  too  flashy 
when  they  all  stand  together. 

After  the  morning  show,  they  begin  re- 
hearsal for  the  next  morning.  Monday 
and  Tuesday  and  Wednesday,  they  work  a 
full  day  until  the  big-hour  variety  show 
goes  off.  And  every  night,  except  week- 
ends, they  meet  to  practice  for  an  addi- 
tional hour  and  a  half. 

They  get  along  well.  They  are  so  com- 
fortable together  that  they  usually  double- 
date — or  triple-date — and  vacation  to- 
gether on  weekends.  They  don't  have 
frequent  free  weekends,  for  they  are  in 
great  demand  to  make  personal  appear- 
ances. And,  at  most  of  the  clubs  they 
have  played,  they  have  broken  all  records. 
A  recent  royalty  check  for  phonograph- 
record  sales  was  $50,000. 

They  don't  live  lavishly.  Each  gets  forty 
dollars  a  week  for  cabs,  hairdresser, 
lunches,  tips,  and  incidental  expenses.  Ten 
percent  of  their  total  income  goes  to  the 
church  back  in  Ohio.  They  finished  off  the 
mortgage  on  the  family  home,  then  pre- 
sented their  parents  with  a  spanking-new 
Buick.  The  girls  spend  little  money  on 
themselves,  because  there's  little  sense 
buying  what  you  won't  have  time  to  use. 

But  the  price  of  success  is  much  more 
serious  than  giving  up  luxuries.  What 
hurts  is  that  there  is  too  little  time  for 
husbands,  and  no  time  to  make  a  home. 
"It's  not  the  kind  of  life  you  want  to  live 
forever,"  Dot  says.  "A  home  should  be 
more  than  a  place  where  you  sleep  and 
keep  your  clothes." 

It's  odd  to  hear  of  girls  so  young  and  so 
successful  already  thinking  of  retirement, 
but  they  value  home  life.  They've  never 
cut  their  own  roots.  Holidays  are  always 
spent  with  parents.  If  they  can't  get  back 
to  Ohio,  their  parents  fly  into  New  York. 
Anyway,  it's  not  surprising  to  learn  that 
the  secret  desire  of  each  is  to  have  a  home 
of  her  own. 

"A  nice  house,"  says  Chris.  "I  think  we've 
earned  it." 

"I  don't  know  when  we'll  quit,"  Dot 
says.  "We'll  just  have  the  feeling,  and  that 
will  be  the  end." 

"If  anyone  decides  she's  had  enough, 
that's  the  end,"  Chris  says.  "There  will 
be  no  argument  about  it.    We'll  just  quit." 

The  McGuires  aren't  quitting  today  or 
tomorrow.  They  enjoy  singing  and,  like 
anyone  else,  they  enjoy  success.  But  they 
don't  need  it.  There  is  a  core  of  pride 
and  dignity  in  each  that  transcends  any 
job  or  duty  they've  had  or  will  ever 
have.  These  gals  are  something  special, 
who  should  inspire,  as  well  as  sing,  songs. 


No  Time  for  Love 


{Continued  from  page  57) 
offices  he  had  been  bombarded  constantly 
with  the  same  tune.  He  tracked  it  down 
and  found  an  executive  working  away — 
with  the  "Frenesi"  record  playing  softly 
on  a  small  phonograph  at  his  elbow. 

"What's  this?"  Steve  asked,  with  the 
natiiral  curiosity  of  a  true  showman.  "You 
repeat  this  record  all  day  long.  What 
makes?" 

"Nothing,"  the  man  said.  "I  just  like  it." 

The  arm  of  the  player  swung  again  into 
position,  and  the  record  played. 

"Eydie  Gorme?"  asked  Allen. 

"The  same,"  said  the  man. 

"I  caught  her  on  a  TV  guest  appearance 
the  other  night,"  Steve  said.  "Hmm  .  .  ." 

It  was  three  days  later  that  Eydie 
Gorme — in  person — walked  through  the 
same  office  and  happened  to  meet  Jules 
Green,  Steve  Allen's  manager.  Now,  it  is 
Mr.  Green's  well-known  habit  to  speak  in 
quietly  intimate  tones,  with  a  this-is-just- 
between  -  you  -  and  -  me  quality — whether 
he's  asking  the  latest  baseball  score  or  in- 
viting a  lady  to  tea. 

However,  at  this  point  Eydie  had  never 
met  Jules,  nor  did  she  know  him  from 
Adam.  When  he  stepped  up  to  her,  intro- 
duced himself,  cind  asked,  "How  would 
you  like  to  be  on  a  TV  show?" — well,  as 
Eydie  remembers  it  now,  "It  was  as 
though  he  were  asking  me  if  I'd  like  to 
buy  a  hot  diamond  I" 

So,  sidhng  away,  she  laughed  nervously 
and  said  she  was  sorry,  thanks  a  lot,  she 
was  afraid  she  just  wouldn't  have  time. 

She  didn't  realize  that  she  had  very 
nearly  said  goodbye  to  the  biggest  oppor- 
timity  of  her  life — until  a  day  or  two  later, 
when  Ken  Greengrass,  her  manager, 
phoned  her  and  asked,  in  a  sorrowful 
voice,  if  she'd  gone  completely  out  of  her 
mind.  "You  are  offered  a  spot  on  the  new 
Steve  Allen  show — network — and  you  tell 
his  manager  you  are  too  busy!"  said  Ken. 

While  she  was  recovering  from  shock, 
he  added,  "Believe  me,  you  are  not  too 
busy  for  a  spot  like  this.  We're-  signing  to- 
night. .  .  ." 

Now,  at  last,  she  had  the  job  she'd  been 
waiting  and  praying  for,  and  she  threw 
herself  into  it  with  every  bit  of  talent  and 
energy  and  heart  she  possessed.  But, 
somehow,  after  the  first  few  days,  she 
knew  it  wasn't  working. 

With  typical  honesty,  Eydie  set  out  to 
discover  why  she  wasn't  making  the  grade. 
She  had  a  film  of  one  of  the  shows  run  for 
her,  and  watched  it,  pretending  she'd  nev- 
er seen  or  heard  of  Eydie  Gorme  before.  It 
didn't  take  five  minutes  for  her  to  find  the 
answer.  She  was  too  fat.  Some  ten  or  fif- 
teen pounds  too  fat.  Where  she  had  mere- 
ly looked  voluptuous  to  a  live  crowd  in  a 
night-club  show,  the  TV  camera  merci- 
lessly showed  her  as  a  "dumpling." 

Still,  she  faced  it.  There  was  no  good 
trying  to  tell  Steve  or  anybody  else  what 
she  was  going  to  do.  She  must  go  ahead 
and  do  it.  At  first,  she  starved  herself. 
That  didn't  help  matters,  and  it  did  make 
her  nervous  and  miserable.  Then  she  tried 
eating  only  certain  dietary  foods,  and  the 
result  was  that  she  could  think  of  nothing 
hut  food. 

Finally,  she  hit  on  the  idea  of  ordering 
the  things  she  Uked,  but  eating  only  a 
small  portion  of  each — half  a  sUce  of  toast 
at  breakfast,  instead  of  three  slices,  and 
so  on.  And  that  worked.  One  day,  Steve 
and  the  others  on  the  show  looked  at  her 
in  a  special  way,  when  she  turned  up  in  a 
new  dress  she  couldn't  even  have  worn 
three  weeks  before.  They  comphmented 
her  delightedly — then  canceled  the  audi- 
tions for  a  replacement.  She  had  won 
against  time,  and  she'd  done  it  all  herself. 


Watching  Eydie  working  on  the  Allen 
show  in  Florida,  during  that  crazy  week 
when  Steve  took  the  whole  outfit  down 
there,  no  one  could  help  but  admire  the 
seemingly  easy  manner,  the  poise,  with 
which  she  had  fitted  herself  into  the  very 
casual  format.  After  all,  Allen  was  all  over 
the  place  and  so  was  everyone  else  in  the 
cast.  Furthermore — so  far  as  an  innocent 
bystander  could  see — nobody  had  done  a 
smidgen  of  preparation  for  what  was  to 
be  a  very  involved  network  broadcast. 

Appearances  were  deceiving,  of  course.  A 
lot  of  people  had  been  working  like  bea- 
vers behind  the  scenes,  even  when  they 
seemed  intent  only  on  getting  a  sun  tan. 
Suddenly,  it  was  late  evening,  and  the 
show  went  on  the  cameras,  and  there  was 
Steve  way  up  at  a  top-floor  window  of  the 
hotel,  bathed  in  a  spotlight,  yelling  and 
shooting  guns.  A  few  minutes  later,  he  was 
introducing  a  porpoise  in  the  pool.  And, 
seconds  after  that,  he  was  suggesting  that 
we  all  listen  to  Miss  Gorme  sing  a  song. 

She  came  out  smiling,  completely  at 
ease,  and  sang  like  an  angel.  "Man!"  a  re- 
porter whispered  fervontly.  "That's  show- 
manship!" 

As  to  the  problems  of  working  on  an 
unrehearsed  program  like  Tonight,  she 
says:  "I'm  getting  used  to  it  now.  But,  for 
the  first  few  weeks,  I  was  in  such  a  state 
by  curtain  time  that  my  neck  was  all 
swelled  up,  I  was  popping  allergy  pills 
into  my  mouth  every  five  minutes,  and  I 
didn't  have  an  octave  left  in  range." 

However,  it  had  been  up  to  her  to  sink 
or  swim  with  the  new  impromptu  method 
of  producing  such  shows.  There  was,  for 
instance,  the  afternoon  when  she  was 
handed  a  brand-new  song,  in  sheet  music 
form,  and  told  that  she  was  to  sing  it  on 
the  show  that  night. 

It  was  not,  as  she'd  momentarily  hoped, 
a  simple  ballad.  It  was  an  extremely  com- 
plicated arrangement.  She  spent  an  hour 
mastering  it,  then,  with  the  sheets  of  mu- 
sic in  her  hand,  went  out  on  the  studio 
stage  to  find  Skitch  Henderson  alone  at  the 
piano,  frowning  and  picking  out  notes 
with  a  forefinger. 

He  brightened  when  he  saw  Eydie. 
"There  you  are!"  he  said. 

"Yes,"  said  Eydie.  "Skitch,  how  am  I 
going  to  sing  this  tonight?  It  needs  so 
much  rehearsal,  and  I — " 

"Now,  don't  worry  about  a  thing," 
Skitch  said,  in  his  special  way,  holding  his 
hands  in  front  of  him  and  waggling  them 
soothingly.  "Just  don't  worry  about  it.  I'm 
going  to  do  a  new  arrangement." 

"What!"  cried  Eydie.  "I've  just  learned 
this  one!" 

"Don't  worry  for  a  minute,"  Skitch  said 
again.  "It's  all  going  to  be  all  right."  As 
she  turned  to  go,  Skitch  reached  out  and 
took  the  sheet  music  from  her  hand.  "I'll 
need  this.  It's  the  only  copy  of  the  song." 

"No!"  Eydie  yelped,  making  a  wild  lunge 
for  the  music.  5kitch  held  it  behind  his 
back,  fending  her  off,  saying:  "Now,  don't 
worry,  don't  worry  .  .  ." 

"And  do  you  know,"  Eydie  recalls,  "we 
went  on  the  air  jiist  three  hours  later — 
and  that  song  was  one  of  the  biggest 
smashes  we've  ever  had!" 

Eydie  has  had  to  learn  not  only  to  take 
such  problems  in  stride,  but  how  to  take  a 
casual,  good-natured  part  in  almost  any 
procedure  or  act  which  demands  her  pres- 
ence— singing,  dancing,  reading  lines  in 
sketches.  In  other  words,  she  has  had  to 
become   a   versatile,   accomplished   star. 

She  was  born  in  The  Bronx,  of  Turkish 
parentage,  and  grew  up  the  way  any  aver- 
age young  American  girl  does.  Her  older 
brother  and  sister  turned  out  to  be  less 
than  talented  at  either  piano  or  violin,  so 


DO  YOO  MBD 

MOHEY? 

«35.00 

IS  YOURS 

for  selling  only  50  boxes  of  our 

300  Christmas  card  line.  And 

this  can  be  done  in  a  single  day. 

Free  samples.  Other  leading 

boxes  on  approval. 

Mail  coupon  below  today. 


It  costs  you  nothing  to  try. 


Last  year  some  folks  made  $250« 
$500-$1,000  and  more  this  very  way. 
Church  groups  and  organizations  can 
do  this,  too.  No  experience  necessary. 


FEATURE     DELUXE 

21    stunning    assorted 

Christmas    cards    of 

every    type,    color 

and    taste 


Latest  rage!    Distinction, 

smart   new,    slim   styling 

—  beautiful! 


mmmmimaw 


CHRISTMAS 

GIFT    WRAP    ENSEMBLE 

20    large   deluxe  sheets 

all    20"   X   30" — gay   Christmas 

colors    with     rnatching 

seals    and    tags 


■riiffiii'iiiminy' 


of  p<Tp-ou1 
designs  in 
slim    style 


BOX 

assortment 
,    clever 


FREE 
SAMPLES 

PERSONALIZED 
CHRISTMAS     CARDS 
and    STATIONERY 


BIBLE    TEXT 

CHRISTMAS       ASSORTMENT 

21     inspiring    religious    cards 

with    Bible  verses 


An  assortment  of 
radiant  beauty  in 
the  fashionable, 
new     slim     design 


CHEERFUL  CARD  COMPANY,  Dept.  188,  White  Plains,  N.  Y. 

■  ■■  Mail  This  Coupon  Today  ■■ 

■  CHEERFUL  CARD  COMPANY 

■  Dept.  188.  White  Plains,  N.  Y. 

H  Please  rush   samples  and  full  details  of   your 
_  easy  money-making  plon. 

H    Nfmc 
H    Arlrlrctt 


City 

If  .writing  for  an  orgon- 
ization,   give    its   name_ 


-State. 


91 


^ 

New  summer   I 
comfort 
for  tired 
burning 
feet 


When  tired  feet  cry  out  for  relief,  drive 
out  fire  and  pain  quickly  with  frosty 
Ice-Mint.  Quick-acting  medicinal  Ice- 
Mint,  with  amazing,  soothing  lanolin, 
relaxes  weary  muscles  wonderfully. 
Greaseless,  stainless!  Excellent  for  sun- 
burn and  windburn!  Ask  your  drug- 
gist   for    wonderful    Ice-Mint    today! 


FREE    PHOTO 


Studio  Porlrcit  of  your  Favorife 

MOVIE  or  TV  STAR 

Direct  from  Hollywood 
FREE:  Catalog    lilting    thousands    of   Movls 

and  T.V.  Stars 
FREE:  Hov/    to    get    Addresses,    Birthdays, 

and  photos  of  Stors'  Homes. 
Send  Name  of  your  Favorite  Starr  and  tSc  tor 
handling  (2  for  25c) 

STAR     STUDIOS,    BOX  46222 
Depl.  P-8 Hollywood  46,  Cotif. 


i/mff  com  ^''^ii  jsCx"  s^® 


k  New  IrtvinffCoiorProcess  Christmas  Cards  sell  fast 

I  from  FREE  Samples— you  keep  $1.00  cash  on  every 

V  box!  Also  profits  to  100%  on  biggest  selection  of 

CHRISTMASX    Gift  Novelties,  newest  SUM  CARDS.  7  Personal  Lines, 

fAOft      /    Children's  items,  etc.  New  Catalog  Shopping  Plan,  Year- 

^  /    Round  Gallery  Display,  Bargain  Specials  boost  earningsl 

Sensaiion/    No  experience  needed.  Get  Assortments  on 

approval.  Imprints  and  Color  Catalog  FREE, 

BOULEVARD  ART  PUBLISHERS 

235  S.  Wabash  Ave.,Dept.S40-B, Chicago  4,  Illinois 


ENLARGEMENT 

o/youf  7-ai/0f/f€  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

1^  Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
^  make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
S  ity  5  X  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
i^  shot,  photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
\>  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 

'  clothing,     and     get    our     Bargain 

Si-toSSSflTTTvS  Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
^JTfTiikiWWW  jjjg^j  beautifully  hand-colored  m 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10^  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Origmal 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising,.  Act  NOW! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  F-96 

7021   Santa  Monica  Blvd.,   Hollywood  38,   Calif. 


92 


Nagging  Backache 
Sleepless  Nights 

Nag^ng  backache,  headache,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  folks  who 
eat  and  drink  unwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation. .  .with  that  restless,  uncomfortable  feeling. 

If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  Pills  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mild  diuretic  action 
through  the  kidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output 
of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

So  if  nagging  backache  makes  you  feel  dragged- 

out,  miserable with  restless,  sleepless  nights  . . . 

don't  wait . . .  try  Doan's  Pills . . .  get  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  enjoyed  for  over  60  years.  Get 
Doan's  Pills  today  1 


no  one  bothered  about  music  lessons  for 
Eydie.  When  it  turned  out  that  she  did 
have  a  fund  of  musical  talent  inside  her, 
there  was  only  one  way  to  get  it  out.  Ey- 
die sang. 

She  sang  with  the  band  and  in  musicals 
at  the  William  Howard  Taft  High  School. 
She  was  the  peppiest  cheerleader  of  them 
all.  And,  of  most  importance,  she  knew  a 
boy  named  Ken  Greengrass  whose  ambi- 
tion was  to  lead  a  band,  and  who  also 
thought  Eydie  was  the  greatest  in  the 
voice  department. 

She  took  a  job  with  a  theatrical-supply 
export  company  after  graduation,  and 
went  to  night  classes  in  economics  at  City 
College.  But  Ken  Greengrass  kept  in  touch 
with  her,  gave  her  weekend  singing  dates 
with  his  band,  and  finally  persuaded  her 
that  her  future  was  in  singing,  and  that 
his  was  in  managing  her. 

Thus,  together,  they  embarked  on  a 
kaleidoscope  of  activity.  She  made  demon- 
stration records,  and  Tommy  Tucker  heard 
and  hired  her.  She  made  a  road  tour  and 
then  sang  with  Tex  Beneke's  band,  which 
was  playing  on  the  Steel  Pier  in  Atlantic 
City.  She  was  a  hit,  and  toured  the  coun- 
try with  Tex  for  a  year. 

By  this  time,  Eydie  had  her  feet  on  the 
ground.  She  was  no  longer  a  fresh  kid 
with  a  young,  good — but  sometimes  unsure 
— voice.  She  knew  something  about  the 
world  outside  The  Bronx,  she  was  learning 
about  clothes  and  poise,  and  she  was  de- 
veloping a  style  all  her  own.  Ken  booked 
her  as  a  "single"  in  such  plush  night  spots 
as  Giro's  in  Miami,  the  Copa  City  in  Pitts- 
burgh, and  found  her  a  lot  of  theater  dates, 
radio  and  television  guest  spots. 

Coral  Records  picked  her  up  from  there 


— and  Steve  Allen  found  her  at  Coral 
Records. 

It  is  hard  to  believe  that  such  a  beauti- 
ful girl  as  Eydie  is  not  seriously  in  love. 
But  it's  also  true  that,  up  until  now,  she 
has  concentrated  on  her  career,  and  most 
of  her  dates  have  been  casual,  with  no 
time  to  develop  into  anything  permanent. 
She'd  had  the  usual  dates  in  high  school, 
sometimes  drove  to  the  beach  with  a  boy- 
friend and  some  other  couples  for  a  day  of 
swimming.  But  she  had  never  really  dis- 
covered the  true  delight  of  sand  and  surf 
until,  after  a  brief  illness,  she  was  sent  to 
Miami  for  a  two  weeks'  rest,  stayed  three 
months — and  fell  in  love  twice,  though  the 
romances  didn't  survive  her  return  to 
New  York. 

Now,  with  Tonight's  exciting  junkets 
first  to  Florida  and  then  to  California, 
she's  getting  all  the  fun  of  vacation,  while 
still  working  too  hard  to  fall  in  love.  At 
home  in  New  York,  she  lives  with  her  par- 
ents in  the  same  fourth-floor  walk-up 
apartment  in  The  Bronx  where  she  lived 
before  success  touched  her  with  its  magic 
wand.  After  her  performances  on  Tonight 
— or  after  a  full-dress  date  on  weekends, 
or  a  Sunday  drive  in  the  country — she 
climbs  the  four  flights  of  stairs  with  a 
sense  of  warm  security  and  of  coming 
home,  where  the  people  and  the  furniture 
and  her  own  bedroom  will  be  as  they  al- 
ways were  in  a  less  abundant  but  also  less 
hurried,  less  exacting  time  in  her  life. 

And  if,  as  she  reaches  her  room,  she 
finds  herself  dreaming  of  that  home  of  her 
own,  with  a  husband  and  children — well, 
Eydie  Gorme  is  young  and  warm  and 
alive,  and  she  knows  the  future  still 
stretches  enticingly  before  her. 


Most  Sincerely  Yours 


(Continued  from  page  68) 
all  over  the  U.  S.  have  had  the  paying  cus- 
tomers crying  for  more.  "It  has  been  said," 
Ted  Mack  noted,  with  paternal  pride,  "that 
not  since  Frank  Sinatra  has  a  young  bari- 
tone leaped  to  such  national  prominence 
in  such  a  short  time.  .  .  ." 

Ted  talked  about  blonde,  blue-eyed 
Elise  Rhodes,  who  left  the  Matinee  tem- 
porarily to  rehearse  for  her  ingenue  role 
in  "Phoenix  '55,"  a  New  York  stage  revue 
.  .  .  and  he  spoke  of  the  Honey  Dreamers, 
that  sprightly  singing  quintet — two  girls, 
three  boys — I'd  just  heard  contributing  to 
the  melody  of  the  Matinee  .  .  .  they'd 
started  singing  together,  said  Mr.  Mack, 
when  they  were  undergraduates  at  St. 
Olaf  College  in  Minnesota,  soon  had  a  ra- 
dio engagement  in  Minneapolis,  then  did 
187  weeks  of  radio  in  Chicago.  Since  then, 
the  Honey  Dreamers  have  guested  on  the 
Eddie  Fisher,  Kay  Kyser  and  Steve  Allen 
shows,  on  We  The  People,  Garroway  At 
Large,  The  Stork  Club  and  other  programs 
.  .  .  and  they  record  a  large  percentage  of 
the  singing  commercials  you  hear.  .  .  . 

Ted  Mack  talked  about  other  talent  he 
has  show-cased,  for  varying  lengths  of  time, 
on  the  Matinee  .  .  .  about  songstress  Beth 
Parks,  "our  little  sweetheart  from  Glas- 
gow, Scotland"  .  .  .  about  the  twelve- 
year-old  girl  ventriloquist  he  pet-named 
"Angel"  .  .  .  about  young  Eddie  Manson, 
virtuoso  of  the  harmonica  .  .  .  and  about 
the  budding  talent — singers,  tap  dancers, 
violinists,  magicians — the  Amateur  Hour 
sends  over  to  him  every  day,  "so  we  can 
audition  them  right  here  on  TV!" 

Another  trait  which  makes  your  Mr. 
Mack  "different" — a  friend  as  well  as  an 
impresario — is  that  he  is  interested  in  the 
talent  he  show-cases,  not  only  as  perform- 
ers, but  as  people.  As  with  Dick  Lee,  he 
knows  about  them,  where  they  come  from, 
the  things  they  care  about. 


When  his  youngsters  leave  the  Matinee 
to  go  into  a  play,  a  movie,  other  programs 
or  the  concert  stage,  he  is  sorry — in  the 
way  a  father  is  sorry — to  see  the  young 
'uns  leave  him,  but  happy  for  them,  and 
hopeful  .  .  .  and  always  the  door  is  open 
for  them  to  come  back  to  the  Matinee. 

He  talked  about  the  talent  he  will  audi- 
tion and  show-case  in  the  future,  for  he  is 
constantly  seeking  out  new  talent  and 
working  out  new  methods  by  which  to 
bring  out  the  talent  in  the  young  people 
he  auditions,  before  he  presents  them. 

He  talked,  in  short,  about  everyone  but 
himself. 

When  a  man  has  spent  most  of  his  life 
turning  the  spotlight  on  others,  he  isn't 
likely  to  be  an  egotist.  Or  an  exhibitionist. 
Such  a  man  must  be,  come  to  think  of  it, 
uncommonly  modest  in  his  own  esteem 
.  .  .  just  as,  it  appears,  your  friend  Ted 
Mack  has  always  been.  "A  different  kind 
of  showman,"  is  the  way  he's  described  by 
those  who-knew-him-when,  "a  reluctant, 
retiring  person  who  nonetheless  attracted 
a  following  that  was  eventually  to  be 
numbered  in  the  millions."  He  is  still  "a 
different  kind  of  showman"  ...  as  his 
dressing  room — which  could  be  papered, 
floor  to  ceiling,  with  the  honors,  citations 
and  testimonials  accorded  him — ^bears  bare 
witness! 

When  asked  for  his  autograph,  show- 
man Mack  looks  gun-shy.  When  crowds 
gather,  he  withdraws.  An  extremely  well- 
built,  above-average  good-looking  man, 
he  doesn't  take  much  of  an  interest  in 
clothes.  He'll  never,  he  prophesies,  make 
a  Ten-Best-Dressed  List!  He  is  seldom  to 
be  seen  at  the  Stork  Club,  21,  the  Copa,  or 
any  of  the  big-league  bistros  where  other 
stars  of  show  biz  foregather  to  eat,  drink, 
and  be  seen  .  .  .  only  when  he  entertains 
out-of-town  visitors;  only,  in  short,  when 
he  has  to.   Mostly   he   rushes  for  a  train. 


when  work  is  done,  in  order  to  get  home. 
Ted  honestly  does  not  like  to  talk  about 
himself.  Or  about  his  home  life.  Nor  does 
Marguerite,  the  one,  first  and  only  Mrs. 
Mack — with  whom  Ted  recently  celebrated 
his  29th  wedding  anniversary — take  kind- 
ly to  publicity  about  her  home  and  mar- 
riage. After  spending  more  than  twenty 
years  on  tour  with  "Ted  Mack  and  Band," 
living  in  hotel  rooms,  gypsying,  the  pri- 
vacy of  home  is  pretty  precious  to  Mar- 
Lguerite.  And  to  Ted. 

"All  the  more  so,"  Ted  explained,  ''be- 
cause it  is  the  first  home  of  our  own,  the 
rst   real   home,    we   have   ever   had.    We 
bought    it    in    1950.    It's    a    medium-sized 
combination    of    white    brick    and    frame, 
nth  about  an  acre  of  land,  up  the  Hud- 
'son,  about  twenty  miles  out  of  New  York. 
Even  if  I  wanted  to  talk  about  life  at  home, 
Jhere  isn't  a  great  deal  to  tell.  We're  pretty 
r.  and  Mrs.  Average  American,  I'd  say. 
"We  work  some  around  the  place.  For 
istance,  I  built  the  terrace  that  overlooks 
le  river  and  added  a  room  myself,  which 
is  used  as  my  study.  My  wife  planted  trees, 
did   the   landscaping,   does  the   gardening. 
Other   than    as   carpenter   and   bricklayer, 
I'm   not    a    very    handy    man    around    the 
house.  Can't  cook.  Don't  cook.  Figure  that 
fthe   time    I'd    take    learning    a    recipe,    or 
planting  a  plant,  I  could  be  riding  a  horse! 
~7e  both  like  to  ride  horseback.  I  have  a 
ronderful  Arabian  horse,  my  good  friend 
'lidaan.    Marguerite    has    a    good    little 
Eow  pony.  Rancher. 
"There  are  some  90  miles  of  canter  paths 
our  area,  on  and  around  the  Rockefel- 
'ler  estate,  which  make  for  good  riding.  We 
have  a  dog,  a  female  English  setter.  We  do 
a  moderate  amount  of  very  relaxed  enter- 
taining. We  haven't  any  particular  extrava- 
gance,   although    I    must    admit    it's    im- 
possible   for    me    to    pass    a    hardware    or 
stationery  store.  And  now  and  again,  I  get 
whims — think  it's  a  great  idea  to  get  my 
hands   on   all   the   paintings   I   can   afford, 
then  on  all  the  cameras.  Or  I'll  wake  up 
and  find  I've  bought  all  the  golf  putters 
,  I'm  liable  to  need  in  a  lifetime! 

"And,"  Ted  grinned,  "although  I  like  to 
ik  that  I  am  not  overly  possessive,  and 
|ertainly  not  a  hoarder,  I  find  myself  go- 
ig  through  my  desk  and  finding  it  literal- 
impossible  to  believe  I  won't  someday 
keed   this   old   ball   of   twine,   that   frayed 
|ld   address  book,  this  or  that  rheumatic 
ountain  pen!  As  a  healthy  antidote  to  this 
EoUyer-Brothers    trait    in    me,    my    wife 
fthrows    out   everything — everything." 

Along    with    his    disinterest    in    talking 

|about  himself,  your  Mr.  Mack  can  think  of 

practically    nothing    to    wish    for    himself. 

le  did  say  he'd  once  wished  he  could — 

id  thought  he  probably  would — build   a 

ittle  place  on  one  of  the  Thousand  Islands 

to  which  he'd  flown,  occasionally,  for  the 

Ishing.  He  learned  to  fly,  in  fact,  because 

Ihe   visualized    himself   taking    off   for   the 

{Islands   whenever   he   was   free   to   do   so. 

"But   the   farther   away   I   got   from   it," 

le    smiled,    "the    less    wishful    thinking    I 

lid  about  it.  And  when  a  test  pilot  I  got 

to  know  said,  one  day,  'Flying  is  not  for 

'business  people,  flying  is  for  pilots,'  that 

iid  it!" 

In   Virginia,    some   fifty   miles   south    of 

iWashington,  D.  C,  there  is  a  small  herd  of 

iHereford  cattle   (fifty  in  all)  which  belong 

to  Mr.  Mack,  who  loves  cows  and  horses 

Pand   once   thought — wishfully — that,   when 

he  retired,  he  might  have  cows,  horses  and 

a  farm.  Of  course  he  never  will.  He  said 

ias  much:    "Maybe   I   can   have   my   cows, 

iorses,   and   a  farm,   before  I  retire — if  I 

pver  do,  which  seems  unlikely.  I  love  what 

I'm  doing." 

He  does,   indeed,   love   what  he's  doing 

.  .  for  his  entire  wish,  his  one  and  only 

wish    is:    "That    otur    show,    the    Matinee, 

stays   on  the   air  long  enough  for  me   to 


present  all  these  young  people  I've  had 
tucked  in  the  back  of  my  mind  for  so  long. 
Literally  for  years,  I've  been  thinking 
about  and  talking  about  all  the  bright 
young  performers  in  America  who  have 
everything  it  takes — except  a  spotlight!  On 
The  Original  Amateur  Hour,  we  auditioned 
— over  a  period  of  twenty-one  years — 
more  than  800,000  boys  and  girls,  of  which 
number  more  than  16,000  have  gone  on 
to  successful  jobs.  Now  I  want  to  do 
something  for  the  'undiscovered'  profes- 
sionals. And  now  I  am  enabled  to  do  some- 
thing for  them,  for  the  basis  on  which  we 
put  our  Matinee  show  is  that  of  giving 
these  youngsters  the  largest  audience — 
coast  to  coast — it  is  possible  for  them  to 
have,  instead  of  being  cached  away,  as 
many  of  them  have  been,  in  let's  say,"  he 
laughed,  "the  Lotus  Garden  in  Cincinnati!" 
In  his  home  town  on  the  Hudson  as  on 
mike  at  the  Ambassador  Theater,  Ted  is  in 
there  pitching  for  the  kids.  He  and  Mar- 
guerite are  instrumental  in  fund-raising 
for  recreational  facilities,  or  for  any  proj- 
ect that  will  benefit  the  local  youngsters. 
They  help  the  home-town  kids  put  on 
their  school  plays.  Ted  has  sometimes 
had  units  sent  up  from  his  show  in  town 
to  increase  ticket  sales.  And,  if  there  were 
any  juvenile  delinquency  in  his  town,  Ted 
would  certainly  be  on  hand  to  help. 

r  or  it  is  not  only  young  people  with 
the  smell  of  greasepaint  in  their  nostrils 
in  whom  Ted  is  interested.  All  this  past 
year,  he  has  been  shopping  for  a  site 
where  he  can  build  a  camp  for  teen-age 
boys    and    girls. 

"A  camp,"  he  said,  "where  the  emphasis 
would  be  on  getting  good  coaches  for  the 
youngsters  in  any  or  all  of  the  fields — • 
from  Acting  to  Zoology — in  which  they 
might  be  interested  .  .  .  where  the  em- 
phasis would  also  be  on  getting  outstand- 
ing individuals,  leaders  in  the  different 
fields,  to  come  to  camp,  sit  around  the 
campfire  and  talk  with  the  kids.  For  a 
youngster  interested  in  the  violin  to  find 
out  from  Yehudi  Menuhin  himself  how 
he  became  the  great  artist  he  is  ...  or  for 
a  boy  with  a  turn  for  business  to  hear 
from  the  head  of  an  industrial  company 
how  he  got  to  be  head  of  the  company  .  .  . 
this  would  be  to  give  him  inspiration  and 
to  instill  respect.  Scholarships  for  out- 
standing citizenship  will  be  awarded  in  this 
camp  I  will  one  day— and  in  some  way — 
have.  Human  dignity  will,  in  other  words, 
be  rewarded. 

"I  am  certainly  no  authority  on  the  sub- 
ject of  juvenile  delinquency,  its  causes  or 
its  cure.  But  I  think  there  is  a  point  in 
every  young  person's  life  when,  because 
he  is  growing  up  and  trying  to  be  an  in- 
dividual, he  rebels  against  adult  domina- 
tion— and  that  this  point  is  the  danger 
point.  The  danger  point  because,  at  this 
point,  they  need  leadership.  They  want 
leadership.  If  they  haven't  got  a  leader, 
that  is  when — and  why — they  follow  the 
fellow  who  gets  them  into  trouble! 

"It  is  a  necessity  to  have  trained  leisure- 
time  activity — some  good  strong  activity — 
for  our  teenagers.  If  a  community  will  sup- 
ply this,  that's  great.  If  not,  it  should  be 
put  on  the  tax  rolls.  That  we  could  be  a 
little  smarter  about  this  need,  and  how  to 
meet  it,  is  my  wish. 

"And  that  is  why  I  wish  the  show  may 
go  on  until  I  have  given  all  the  bright 
young  performers,  who  are  America's  'iin- 
discovered'  professionals,  their  largest 
audience.  It  is  also  why  I  wish  to  have — 
and  am  working  toward — the  end  where 
I  will  someday  be  able  to  have  my  camp 
for  youngsters   of  many   talents." 

That's  the  sincere,  heartfelt  message 
from  your  Mr.  Mack,  who  is,  indeed,  your 
best  friend  .  .  .  whoever  you  are,  wher- 
ever you  are,  whatever  your  dream  is. 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as- 
sortment of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety  of 
luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons,  cot- 
tons, gabardines,  woolens,  silks, 
etc.  Expensive  dresses — original 
value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cards!  5  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON! 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.  816  i 

lOne  of  the  oldest  end  largest  mail  order  houses  of  its  kind! 

t     103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y. 

Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below 
with  Free  Button  Cards.  Enclosed  find  $1  de- 
posit, balance  C.O.D.  plus  postage.  Money  re- 
turned if  not  completely  satisfied,  Canadian  and 
foreign  orders  accepted. 
Circle  Size: 

Girl's  Sizes  7,  8,  10,  12,  14  are  5  for  $2.75 
Junior  Miss  Sizes  9,  11,  13.  15  are  5  for  $3.75  . 

'  Sizes  12,  14,  16,  18,  20,  38,  40,  42,  44,  5  for  $3.75  I 

ISizes  14]4,  16y2,l8;-4,20!^.22'X.24i^,5for$3.75l 
I  Extra  Large  Sizes  46.  48,  50,  52  are  5  for  $4.75  | 
I  D  Check  here  to  save  C.O.D.  fee.  Send  full  | 
I  amount  with  2  5<^  postage.  ■ 

,  n  Please    send  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY      ! 

}     Name j 

I     Address I 

L_City,^..__^.^.___.. 


Zone  State 


93 


94 


Callouses,  Tenderness,  Pain, 
Burning  at  Ball  of  Foot? 


Ball-o-,foot 

Cushion 


^OOPS  OVER  TOE 

QUICK  RELIEF 
BEYOND  BELIEF! 

Made  of  soft  LATEX 
FOAM  and  NYLON 

You  Actually  WALK 
ON  CUSHIONS! 


It's  entirely  NEW!  Never  before  anything  like  it 
for  relieving  painful  callouses,  tenderness,  burning 
at  ball  of  foot!  The  cushion — not  you — absorbs 
shock  of  each  step.  Dr.  SchoU's  BALL-O-FOOT 
Cushion  loops  over  toe.  No  adhesive.  Flesh  color. 
Washable.  Worn  invisibly.  $1.00  pair  at  Drug,  Shoe, 
Dept.,  5-10^  Stores  and  Dr.  Scholl's  Foot  Comfort* 
Shops.  If  not  obtainable  locally,  order  direct,  enclos- 
ing $1.00  and  state  if  for  woman  or  man. 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  INC.,  Dept.  STB,  Chicago  10,  III. 


DEHTALHURSm 


frepare  now  tor  a  well-paid  career. 
Learn  chairside  and  reception  tech- 
nique. X-ray,  lab,  personality  develop- 
'  ment.  Simplified,  personal  instruction.  If 
you  are  between  17  and  SO,  you  can  begin 
in  spare  time  at  home  and  shorten  class- 
work.  Write  now  for  FREE  booklet. 

-M__WAYNE   SCHOOL     Lab.  l-io 

Umj£iS^2S21  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  III. 


LV      ,-, 


f/?5f/'=y  325  PICTURES 


With  your  order  of  TV  and  Movie 
Stars.  One  beautiful  Scene  from  a 
latest  production  FREE.  It's  NEW 
and,  has   never   been  offered  before! 

12/or  15<-28/or25^-64/orS0< 

LUCKY     STARS      Dapt.  T-3 
G.  P.  O.  Bex  738,  NEW  YORK  1,  N.  Y. 


fieed  mte  mneij? 


,  bnow  null   v»-""-< 


Here's  how  to  earn  money  last !  ' 
Simply  show  friends  brand  new 
SUM-SHAPED  Christmas  Cards.    ^  _ 
Also  personal  cards,  notes  and  wrappings,  gilts  -over  1 
items.  They  sell  on  sight... you  make  big  profits.  Send  no 
money-hut  WRITE  TODAY  for  assortments  on  approval/ 
and  let  FREE  pen  with  liey  chain  lor  prompt  action.'' 
CHAS.  C.  SCHWER  CO..  252  Elm  St.WesK.eld,  Moss 


LEG   SUFFERERS 

Why  continue  to  suffer  without  attempt- 
ing to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New 
Booklet — "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varicose 
Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
used  wkiU  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
success.  Praised  and  en-i 
dorsed  by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  32S0  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., L 
Dept.  H-47,  IMIIwaukee  12,  Wisconsin! 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


SHORTHAND 


a  IN  6  WEEKS 


Age 


Write  120  words  per  minute, 
no  obstacle— LOWEST  COST 


Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  No  symbols, 
no  machines,  uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn  and  use. 
Fast  preparation  tor  a  better  position.  Natlonallyused 
In  leading  offices  and  Civil  Service.  120  words  per 
minute — 507«  FASTER  than  Civil  Service  require- 
ments. Over  300.000  taught  at  home  or  through 
classroom  Instruction.  The  very  low  cost  will  sur- 
prise you.  Typing  available.  32nd  Year.  Schools  In 
over  400  cities  In  U.  S.,  Canada,  Cuba  and  Hawaii. 
WRITE  FOR  FREE  BOOKLET  TO  SCHOOL  OF 


New  Star  in  the  Sky 


(Continued  from  page  36) 
with  that  beat — wherever  it  should  lead. 

He'd  meant  to  give  Stanford  the  full 
college  try.  But,  back  in  school  for  his 
senior  year,  after  that  exciting  warm-up 
with  his  own  CBS  Radio  show,  it  had 
seemed  that  he  was  just  marking  time. 

In  college,  Gary  had  felt  that  he  was 
excelling  at  nothing.  "That's  what  was 
bothering  me,"  he  says  now,  with  his 
typical  honesty.  "I  didn't  think  I  was 
doing  much  good  in  school.  I  wasn't  break- 
ing any  records  scholastically,  athletically 
or  any  other  way.  I  wasn't  proving  any- 
thing either  way.  I  wanted  to  see  what 
I  could  do  in  show  business — if  anything." 

That's  what  he'd  said  when  he  got 
home:  "I  can  always  go  back."  But  no- 
body could  know  better  than  Bing  Crosby 
— who  never  headed  his  own  jalopy  back 
to  Spokane — that,  once  you  get  with  the 
beat,  you  don't  get  away.  He  knew  Gary 
was  home  in  Hollywood  to  stay. 

loday,  Bing's  Gary  is  soloing  into  that 
same  wild  blue  yonder  where  his  father 
is  still  king.  Singing  in  the  face  of  a 
challenge  such  as  few  in  show  business 
have  ever  known.  Knowing  that  his  own 
voice  will  always  be  compared  with  the 
most  endearing  and  the  most  enduring 
voice  in  all  the  land. 

Gary  has  an  answer  for  any  professional 
mourners.  "Sure — I  could  be  scared,"  he 
says  now  quietly.  "Who  couldn't  be?  You 
could  be  real  scared,  if  you  think  about  it 
too  much.  But  you  cap't  let  yourself  feel 
that  way  about  it.  That  would  be  ridicu- 
lous. If  you  took  the  negative  view  and 
cried  on  everyone's  shoulder — who  would 
ever  respect  you?" 

Sure,  there  will  always  be  some  wise- 
acres around  who're  ready  to  make  a  big 
thing  of  his  being  Bing's  son.  "But  I 
could  be  compared  with  a  whole  lot 
worse,"  he  goes  on,  in  a  tone  which  says 
he  doubts  whether  he  could  be  compared 
with  any  better.  As  for  their  voices  hav- 
ing the  same  quality:  "Nobody  has  a  voice 
like  Dad's — and  nobody's  ever  been  able 
to  grow  one." 

He  just  sings  the  way  he  feels  and  lets 
the  notes  fall  where  they  may.  "And  I 
can't  sing  ballads,  anyway.  I'm  pretty 
leaky  on  those.  You've  got  to  learn  to 
sing  ballads.  I'm  better  on  rhythm  tunes." 

Gary's  also  the  first  to  agree  that  being 
Bing's  son  did  help  him  to  get  heard.  That 
it  isn't  likely  a  newcomer  to  radio  would 
have  his  own  half-hour  CBS  network 
show  "with  no  more  experience  than  I've 
had — without  that  first  assist  from  Dad. 
It  would  have  taken  a  whole  lot  longer 
than  this."  What  he  doesn't  add,  however, 
is  that — once  that  door  was  opened — it 
was  up  to  Gary  Crosby  to  stay  there. 

For  a  fellow  as  modest  as  Gary's  father 
to  comment  aloud  on  Gary's  challenge  to 
show  business  is  very  difficult.  It  neces- 
sitates Bing  Crosby's  admitting,  first  of  all, 
that  he  himself  has  really  got  somewhere. 
The  closest  he  comes  is  to  say  he  realizes 
that  Gary  is  living  "in  the  shadow  of  some- 
thing already  built  up."  (Which  is  prob- 
ably the  understatement  of  all  time.)  But 
Bing  doesn't  hesitate  to  add  his  faith  that: 
"Gary  has  all  the  equipment  it  takes  to 
handle  this.  He  has  plenty  of  talent,  and 
he's  getting  the  opportunity  now  to  exer- 
cise it.  I  believe  he'll  eventually  do  some- 
thing.  He's  getting  all  wound  up  now.  .  .  ." 

Wound  up  or  no,  there's  one  thing  Gary 
has  always  known — he  had  to  sing.  "I  just 
like  it  instinctively,  and  I  want  to  go 
ahead.  I  don't  know  how  good  I  am — or 
whether  I  ever  will  be  good.  But  I  have 
to  try." 

Since  Bing  has  watched  so  many  others 
come  and  go  in  his  profession,  Bing's  con- 


cern has  been  whether  or  not  Gary  was 
sufficiently  prepared  to  step  in  so  suddenly 
and  snowball  along. 

"It's  much  tougher  to  hang  up  your 
shingle  in  the  entertainment  field  today," 
he  says.  "The  going  was  a  lot  easier  when 
some  of  the  rest  of  us  started  out.  And 
Gary  never  did  much  in  show  business 
until  the  last  year.  We  never  even  talked 
show  business  much  around   our  house." 

Through  his  boys'  more  impressionable 
years,  Bing  was  concentrating  on  raising 
young  citizens — not  celebrities.  Actually, 
he  kept  Gary  and  his  brothers  as  far  re- 
moved from  Hollywood  as  possible,  to 
shield  them  from  any  dangers  of  such 
inflation,  and  to  keep  them  from  growing 
up  identified  as  "Bing  Crosby's  kids." 

But  Gary's  own  destiny  was  shaping  up, 
even  then.  By  the  time  Gary  was  four- 
teen, Bing  admitted  that  Gary  had  "good 
intonation  and  rhythm,  and  might  well  be 
a  singer" — if  he  so  chose.  At  Bellarmine 
Prep,  Gary  took  part  in  school  plays, 
emceed  variety  shows,  played  a  pretty 
hot  drum,  and  organized  a  singing  sextet 
who  called  themselves,  "The  Happy  In- 
mates." About  this  time,  too,  Gary  re- 
corded "Play  a  Simple  Melody,"  backed 
by  "Sam's  Song"  with  his  dad.  It  was  a 
smash  hit. 

Then,  one  evening,  a  boyish  baritone 
swung  out  on  Bing's  radio  show  with 
"Dear  Hearts  and  Gentle  People" — to  an 
ovation  from  the  San  Francisco  studio 
audience.  Wires  and  offers  poured  in.  It 
was  evident  the  folks  were  taking  to  their 
own  hearts  a  new  groaner,  junior  grade. 
Gary's  parents  must  have  felt  that  this 
was  now  destined  to  be.  Gary  has  care- 
fully treasured  a  wire  he  got  from  Dixie 
Crosby,  which  reads:  "Just  heard  your 
show.  Didn't  even  recognize  your  voice. 
You  sound  like  an  old  man  and  I  don't 
mean  Uncle  Everett.  All  my  love, 
Mommie." 

Ask  Gary  about  the  reviews  he  gets  at 
home,  now  that  he's  rolling,  and  he  grins, 
"Ain't  nobody  at  our  house  gonna  say 
anything.  Dad  says  I  sound  better  on  the 
high  notes.  That's  about  all."  His  broth- 
ers. Private  Phillip  Crosby,  now  stationed 
at  Fort  Sam  Houston,  Texas,  and  Private 
Dennis  Crosby,  now  in  Germany,  have 
expressed  some  interest,  Gary  goes  on: 
"They  want  to  know  about  the  loot.  How 
much  money  I'm  making  and  if  I'm  going 
to  be  able  to  support  them.  I'm  just  kid- 
ding, of  course.  Uncle  Sam  keeps  them 
too  busy  to  listen  to  me." 

Gary's  goal  is  to  make  his  own  place  in 
show  business.  And  he's  going  in  swing- 
ing, with  the  same  determination  which 
the  Fathers  saw  when  he  was  a  fighting 
fullback  at  Ballarmine.  As  they've  said, 
"You  could  always  tell  Gary  was  in  the 
game,  all  right.  He  has  a  great  competi- 
tive spirit.  He's  a  very  determined  boy 
with  great  drive.  He  really  hits  hard— 
and  he  takes  a  lot  of  punishment."  They 
well  remember  instances  when  he  was 
dazed  and  injured  in  play  and  should  have 
been  taken  out— but  stayed  the  whole 
game,  anyway. 

In  today's  far  more  competitive  sport, 
Gary's  tackling  show  business  with  the 
same  determination.  When  he  isn't  at 
CBS,  he's  rehearsing  at  Buddy  Bregman's 
home,  trying  out  new  arrangements.  He 
watches  rehearsals  of  other  shows.  He  all 
but  saturates  himself  with  music.  He 
works  out  constantly  at  a  health  club, 
pulling  weights  and  playing  handball,  fur- 
ther trimming  down  his  muscular  build. 
And,  whatever  he  does,  he's  his  own  con- 
stant and  severest  critic.  Other  critics 
lauded  Gary's  guest  appearance  on  Jack 
Benny's  television  show.    But  Gary's  own 


comment  is:  "Now  I  know  why  people 
divide  when  they  meet  me  on  the  street. 
But  it  isn't  just  the  body — it's  the  face 
that  bothers  me!" 

But  where,  not  long  ago,  many  of  those 
wise  to  show  business  wouldn't  have 
given  Gary  Crosby's  spot  to  an  enemy, 
now  even  the  skeptics — and  all  the  vocal- 
hopeful's  who've  long  looked  forward  to 
the  day  Bing  Crosby  would  rest  on  his 
still  growing  laurels  and  get  tired  truck- 
ing away  all  the  money  Bob  Hope  says  he 
has — are  becoming  resigned  to  the  fact 
that,  as  long  as  the  blue  of  the  night  con- 
tinues to  meet  the  gold  of  the  day,  a 
Crosby  wiU  continue  to  be  there.  .  .  . 

For,  a  few  months  ago,  destiny  really 
moved  in.  Gary  signed  a  CBS  contract 
calling  for  regular  appearances  as  vocal- 
ist on  Tennessee  Ernie's  Monday-through- 
Friday  radio  program,  six  guests  shots  on 
top  CBS  television  shows,  and  a  starring 
spot  with  his  own  show.  He's  a  Decca 
recording  artist,  with  current  releases 
niunbering  Buddy  Bregman's  Hawaiian 
rhythm-and-blues  number,  "Ayuh-Ayuh," 
"Mississippi  Pecan  Pie,"  and  "Truly"  and 
"Higgly  Piggly"  with  the  Paris   Sisters. 

As  of  June  26th,  he's  rolling  with  The 
Gary  Crosby  Show.  For  how  long?  "As 
long  as  I  can  stay  on.  .  .  ." 

Which  should  be  quite  some  time,  in 
the  experienced  opinion  of  Murdo  Mc- 
Kenzie,  Gary's  producer,  who  also  co- 
produces  Bing's  radio  show  and  has  been 
associated  with  him  for  twenty  years.  As 
Murdo  says,  "The  great  thing  about  Gary 
is  his  wonderful  natural  talent  for  rhythm 
and  for  finding  the  beat — which  is  lacking 
in  many  of  the  current-day  singers.  He's 
very  bright,  he  learns  easily,  and  he  loves 
the  business.  With  no  more  experience 
than  Gary's  had,  it's  phenomenal  how  he 
can  step  up  to  the  mike,  carrying  the 
whole  show  on  his  back,  and  handle  him- 
self so  professionally." 

Adding  to  this,  Buddy  Bregman,  Gary's 
brilliant  young  musical  director — who's 
also  associated  with  Ethel  Merman's  shows 
and  some  of  television's  top  "spectacu- 
lars"— notes  Gary's  eagerness  to  learn  and 
his  willingness  to  cooperate:  "He's  so 
modest  about  the  whole  bit — the  easiest 
person  I've  ever  worked  with.  Gary  asks 
your  opinion  and  he  takes  it.  He  always 
wants  the  truth  from  you.  None  of  that 
fawning  and  yessing  and  Hollywood  jazz. 
He's  always  asking  whether  he's  right 
on  something.  He  doesn't  think  he's  any 
good — but  he  is.     Talk  about  'humility' — " 

For  his  own  happiness  and  peace  of 
mind,  Gary  has  a  little  too  much  humility. 
He's  always  running  himself  down.  That 
he  has  the  courage  to  face  up  to  today's 
challenge — and  step  out  on  that  stage  at 
all — is  all  the  more  commendable,  when 
one  knows  him  and  realizes  just  how  much 
humility  he  has.  His  own  thoughts,  for  in- 
stance, when  he  looks  at  those  teenagers 
in  his  simimer  audiences  now:  "They 
really  scare  me.  I  guess  that's  because  it 
hasn't  been  any  time  since  I  was  on  their 
side  of  the  stage,  too,  and  I  remember  that 
whole  bit  too  well.  I  know  what  I  thought 
— and  what  they're  probably  thinking  now. 
'Get  him!     Who  does  he  think  he  is?'" 

Contrary  to  the  opinion  of  some  who 
don't  know  him,  Bing's  Gctry  has  almost 
no  ego,  which  can  be  both  a  blessing  and 
a  torment.  At  first  meeting,  his  shyness 
is  sometimes  mistaken  for  conceit,  and  his 
inexperience — fired  by  his  own  self-doubt 
— for  arrogance.  He  dies  when  he  thinks 
he's  fluffed.  He's  sure  he  can't  sing  a 
ballad.  He's  sure  he  isn't  photogenic,  and 
he's  the  photographers'  despair,  just  get- 
ting him  to  pose.  He's  uncomfortable 
whenever  he  feels  conspicuous,  and  get- 
ting him  to  sing  at  a  party  or  a  club  is 
out.   Nobody  understands  this  better  than 


Gary's  best  friends,  Jack  Haley,  Jr.  and 
Les  Gargan  (son  of  the  William  Gargans) 
who  can  also  appreciate  what  any  celeb- 
rity's son  is  up  against — on  or  off  stage: 
"You're  prejudged  before  people  even 
know  you.  Automatically,  they  think 
you're  stuck-up.  Gary  won't  ever  sing 
when  we're  out  anywhere.  He's  afraid 
somebody  will  think  he's  showing  off.  And 
you  can't  even  win  this  way,  either.  Then 
they  think  you're  too  stuck-up  to  sing!" 
Gary's  probably  the  only  audible  and 
animate  object  in  any  household  Ed  Mur- 
row's  encountered  who  hasn't  been  home. 
When  Miirrow  visited  Bing  Crosby  Person 
To  Person,  Gary  enjoyed  watching  his  dad 
and  Lin  (the  fourth  Crosby  son)  from  the 
Haleys'  house.  Asked  why  he  absented 
himself,  Gary  said  typically,  "Why  should 
I  spoil  the  show?" 

rlis  family  is  long  familiar  with  Gary's 
reviews  of  his  own  work.  But  sometimes 
the  Crosbys'  housekeeper,  Georgia  Hard- 
wick,  will  finally  say,  "Gary — quit  knock- 
ing yourself."  For,  when  he  does  this, 
he's  also  knocking  one  of  her  favorite  men 
of  song.  He's  been  a  favorite  since  the  age 
of  six,  when  he  was  belting  out  nursery 
rhymes.  "Georgie" — as  they  all  affection- 
ately call  her — was  employed  by  Dixie  and 
Bing  as  the  children's  nurse  fifteen  years 
ago.  Since  the  children  are  now  all  grown- 
up, according  to  Georgie,  she's  a  "house- 
keeper" today.  Actually,  she's  a  "house- 
mother" for  the  whole  Crosby  clan.  So, 
when  she  says,  "Gary's  a  good  kid — our 
kids  are  all  good  kids,"  she  knows  where- 
of she  speaks. 

And  she's  so  right.  Gary  Crosby  is 
a  very  sensitive  and  a  very  vulnerable 
and  warmly  likable  twenty-two-year-old. 
Around  those  he  knows,  his  conversation 
is  crew-cut,  his  answers  glib,  and  his 
wisecracks  fast.  Nobody  could  write  his 
"material,"  except  another  member  of  the 
Crosby  clan.  But  his  eyes  are  serious  and 
watchful  and  his  movements  are  quick 
and  tense.  Generally,  he's  more  comfort- 
able around  older  people.  And,  generally, 
he's  almost  too  serious-minded  for  his  age. 
But,  when  he  starts  free-wheeling  about 
college  days  and  dear  old  Zeta  Psi  and 
the  fraternity  gang,  the  years  drop  away: 
"Stanford's  such  a  great  school.  It's  a 
Phi  Beta  Kappa  school.  There  are  some 
fantastic  minds  attending  there.  I  think 
I  stepped  a  little  out  of  my  league — even 
the  football  players  pulled  down  A's!" 

Gary  pulled  down  his  best  grades  in 
English  literature  and  in  anything  that 
had  to  do  with  his  major,  which  was 
drama  and  speech.  "But  required  courses 
— like  science  courses — they  murdered  me. 
I  went  through  Biology  1  two  or  three 
times.  Economics,  I  don't  like,  either.  I'd 
have  gone  around  that  one  again,  if  it 
hadn't  been  for  my  professor,  'Doc'  Fagan. 
He  had  a  homey  way  of  talking  and  mak- 
ing with  the  gags — all  the  guys  liked  him. 
I  pulled  down  an  A  in  Economics  1.  Then 
came  Economics  2 — I  never  did  quite  get 
through  that." 

Gary  says  he  can't  give  Lin  much  help 
on  his  homework.  "He  knows  more  than 
I  do.  Lin's  one  of  those  moaners.  He 
comes  home  from  school  crying  and  moan- 
ing, 'I'll  never  pass  this  course.'  Then 
comes  the  end  of  the  course — and  a 
straight  98.    Makes  you  sick,"  Gary  grins. 

To  Gary — used  to  strict  study  supervi- 
sion from  the  Fathers  at  Bellarmine  Prep 
— Stanford  University  at  first  seemed  like 
a  strange  sort  of  scholastic  Utopia  where 
nobody  told  you  to  study  and  nobody 
seemingly  cared.  But,  just  before  the 
semester  ended  and  he  found  he  was  in 
danger  of  being  washed  out  of  school,  he 
rapidly  saw  the  light.  It's  typical  of  Gary 
that,  faced  with  this  sudden  challenge,  he 
reacted  as  usual.  He  knuckled  down  and 


al 


"^ 


PERMANENT  DARKEN ER  ["^"l^t"'" 

to  wntcb 

FOR   LASHES   AND   BROWS  oppf.ed 

•  One  opplicotion  losts  4  to  S  weeks! 
"Dark-Eyes"  —  so  easy  fo  apply  — 
is  the  perfect  way  to  make  eyelashes 
and  brows  come  beautifully  alive 
. . .  completely  natural  looking. 
"Dark-Eyes"  is  NOT  A  MASCARA! 
Eliminates  the  bother  of  daily  eye 
make-up.  It  is  PERMANENT, 
SWIMPROOF,  TEARPROOF, 
SMUDGEPROOF  AND  SMEARPROOFl 

25  c  Ideal  to  "touch-up"  those  first  gray  bairst 

$1.00  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores 


Send  TODAY 
for  TRIAL 
SIZE! 


I 


"DARK-EVES"  COIVIPANY,  Dept.  P-8S 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III. 

I  encloie  25c  (coin  or  stomps— tax  included)  lor  TRIAl  SIZE 
PACKAGE  of  •Oorli.Eyei"  with  direclionl. 

cheek  co/of:    Q  Black    Q  Brown 


Name 

Address^ 
Town 


ENLARGEMENT 

Plus  12  Keepsakes 


Glamorous  black  and  white  enlarge- 
ments 8x10  inch  on  double  weight 
portrait  paper  57c  (2  for  $t.OO). 
Gold  tooled  leatherette  frames  57c 
(2  for  $1.00).  FREE!  With  any 
$2.00  order  you  get  an  extra  8x10 
enlargement  free  plus  12  small  size 
keepsakes  free.  Oil  coloring  $1.00 
extra  for  each  enlargement.  State 
color  of  hair,  eyes,  etc.  State  choice 
of  frames,  brown  or  maroon.  En- 
close 25c  deposit  or  save  all  C.O.D. 

charges  by  sending  full  amount  with  order.  Mail  photos 
or  films  today.  Originals  safely  returned.  Act  now. 
Dtpt.  833,   Marvil  Art.  1140  Roosfvtlt  Read,  Chieazo  It  Illinois 


/a^ 


fFflV^ 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
kBfG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

Si\  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL    NEEDED.      No    age    limit. 

FOR  FREE  LESSON  and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


Post  Graduate  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing 
9085-B  Auditorium  BIdg. 
Chicago  5,  Illinois 


Name 

Address 

City State. 


95 


96 


crammed  and  more  than  passed.  Further- 
more, his  fraternity  voted  him  the  "Fresh- 
man Achievement  Award" — given  to  the 
freshman  who's  achieved  the  most  and 
improved  the  most  during  that  year. 
"You'd  better  not  put  that  in,"  he  says 
quickly,  when  informed  you  know  about 
this.  Obviously,  in  his  case — he  insists — 
there  was  considerably  more  room  for  im- 
provement. "And  it's  not  hard  for  a  guy 
to  pull  himself  up  with  a  wonderfuFbunch 
of  guys  like  that,  anyway." 

As  a  rule,  Gary's  clothes  are  more  con- 
servative than  his  father's.  He  goes  for 
quietly  elegant  silk  suits  and  striped  ties. 
But  he  insists  he  has  his  share  of  sports 
shirts,  too.  "I've  got  some  dazzling  ones 
I  wear  about  the  house  now  and  then. 
And,  now  that  summer's  here,  you'll  see 
me  breaking  out  in  them." 

Although  Gary  insists  "I  don't  go  out 
too  much,"  he  goes  for  girls  "with  a  good 
sense  of  humor  and  with  a  good  person- 
ality, a  girl  who  can  carry  on  a  decent 
conversation — I  don't  mean  a  lot  of  phony 
chatter,  but  somebody  you  can  really  talk 
to."  He's  also  partial  to  girls  "who — well — 
aren't — well — impressed  with  who  they 
think  you  are  .  .  .  or — well — what  they 
think  you  have  ...  a  girl  who — well — 
likes  you  for  yourself,"  Gary  says,  his 
modesty  giving  him  a  little  trouble  with 
that  one.  Glamour?  "I  don't  care  much 
about  looks.  But,  of  course,  if  you  can 
find  a  girl  who's  a  good-looker  along  with 
those  other  things,  you'd  really  be  in 
business." 

Gary's  chief  claim  to  fame,  according  to 
Gary,  is  that  he's  already  twice  a  god- 
father. One  of  his  godsons  is  "Iron"  John 
Callahan  from  Stanford  University — "aged 
twenty-one,"  Gary  grins.  "He  started  tak- 
ing instructions  in  the  church  in  Palo  Alto 
and  he  wanted  to  be  baptized  there.  He 
lives  in  Massachusetts  and  none  of  the 
family  or  their  friends  were  there — so  I 
did  the  godfather  bit.  You  know,  when 
you're  a  godfather,  you  promise  you'll 
see  your  godchild  is  brought  up  properly 
and  watch  out  in  life  for  him.  "This  was 
really  the  blind  leading  the  blind." 

Then,  recently,  Rosemary  Clooney  and 
Jose  Ferrer  asked  Gary  to  be  godfather 
for  their  baby  son,  Miguel  Jose  Ferrer. 
"I  was  really  surprised.  He's  such  a  cute 
baby — I  figured  they  could  have  done  bet- 
ter than  me.  I  believe  originally  they  had 
Dad  down  for  it,  but  he  was  out  of  town. 
So  I  stood  in  for  him  there.  They  got  me 
cheaper,  too.  .  .  ." 

In  addition  to  godfathering,  loyalty  is 
Gary's  long  suit.  His  friendship  isn't  given 
lightly,  but  if  he  likes  you — you're  in. 
And  he  makes  every  word  good.  Some 
time  ago,  he'd  mentioned  to  Buddy  Breg- 
man  that,  if  his  own  show  developed,  he 
would  have  him  conduct.  In  a  town  where 
people  starve  on  promises  that  aren't  kept. 
Buddy  says:  "When  the  time  came,  that 
was  the  picture — just  as  he'd  said."  And 
Buddy  adds,  "He  takes  all  my  'dubs'  home 
with  him  now.  I  don't  have  any  of  my 
own  records  at  home.  I  did  a  score  for  a 
movie — you  know,  symphonic  orchestra- 
tions and  such — and  Gary  made  off  with 
all  of  them.  Finally,  I've  found  out  why. 
'If  anybody  says  you  can't  do  anything  but 
rhythm  and  blues — then  Til  pull  these 
out,'  he  says.    And  he  would." 

His  well-exercised  loyalty  is  reflective 
of  both  Dixie's  and  Bing's,  as  Gary  him- 
self is  a  composite  of  both  parents.  "His 
mother  had  that  same  wonderful  sense  of 
loyalty  Gary  has,"  Mrs.  Gargan  says  now. 
"Gary  has  a  streak  of  tenderness  from 
her,  too,  and  he  has  Dixie's  quick  wit  and 
whip  mind — although  his  father's  no  slouch 
in  this  department,  either.  He  also  has 
Bing's  sincerity — he's  so  sincere,  in  an  at- 
mosphere where  you  don't  always  find  too 


much.  And  so  well-behaved,  he's  a  joy 
to  have  around,"  she  says  affectionately. 
Gary's  relaxed  around  friends  like  Les 
Gargan  and  Jack  Haley,  Jr.  They're  all 
children  of  show  business  and  they  can 
perform  without  being  subjected  to  false 
flattery  or  criticism.  They  can  talk  show 
business  together — and  dream  it  tall.  Their 
gang  often  gathers  in  the  Gargans'  spa- 
cious recreation  room,  where  they  watch 
fights  on  TV,  rhubarb  with  the  baseball 
teams,  and  occasionally  have  their  own 
theater-in-the-round,  doing  take-offs  of 
such  films  as  "The  Caine  Mutiny."  "We 
clown  around  and  gorge  ourselves  with 
food  and  listen  to  the  hi-fi,"  says  Les. 
"We're  all  long-hairs — Eartha  Kitt  long- 
hairs.  And  sometimes  we  discuss  our  prob- 
lem parents."  Les  Gargan  and  Gary  were 
born  just  one  day  apart,  and  usually  cele- 
brate their  birthdays  together — "Gary's 
running  into  mine   at  midnight." 

But  Gary's  crew-cut  crowd  was  im- 
pressed for  all  time  with  the  fabulous  din- 
ner party  Bing  gave  Gary  on  his  twenty- 
first  birthday — which  also  marked  the 
opening  of  his  first  CBS  Radio  show.  From 
the  moment  Bing  remarked  to  the  Gargans, 
"I'm  going  to  serve  champagne  to  our 
twenty-one-year-olds,"  Gary's  group  was 
determined  to  live  up  to  the  dignity  of 
that  evening.  Even  then,  it  got  a  little 
away  from  them.  Bing  had  invited  about 
forty  of  Gary's  friends  and  a  number  of 
his  own  to  a  seven  o'clock  champagne 
dinner — but  they  didn't  eat  until  eight. 
Les  Gargan  went  to  Malibu  to  pick  up  his 
date,  got  caught  in  the  Sunday  bumper- 
to-bumper  traffic.  Buddy  Bregman,  who'd 
had  no  lunch,  kept  stage-whispering  to 
Gary,  inquiring  "When  do  we  eat?" 
(Then,  during  a  lull  in  the  conversation, 
he  blasted  out  with,  "If  you  don't  feed 
me  in  five  minutes — I'm  going  to  Stan's 
Drive-In.")  When  Les  Gargan  finally 
walked  in,  "They  were  all  waiting  for 
me.    I   felt   like   the    Wells-Fargo    stage." 

But  that  evening  still  wasn't  over.  Bing 
had  made  reservations  for  Gary's  crowd 
at  the  Moulin  Rouge  and  he'd  ordered 
another  big  birthday  cake.  "Gary  and  I 
had  a  whole  act  built  up  for  the  gendarmes 
when  they  questioned  our  age— but  it 
died,"  Les  recalls.  "For  once,  they  didn't 
even  ask.  We  were  both  highly  indignant 
about  the  whole  thing."  About  ten  to 
midnight,  just  as  Les's  mother  was  about 
to  retire,  she  opened  the  door  to  find  Gary 
standing  there  holding  a  cake  "and  about 
seventy-five  people  she'd  never  heard  of 
following  us  in.  You  know  how  that  is — 
the  word  gets  around  for  a  party  or  the 
reading  of  the  will."  They'd  all  come  home 
with  Les  to  help  celebrate  his  birthday. 

Gary  and  his  brothers  always  have  their 
own  problem,  too,  around  Bing's  birth- 
day. It's  almost  impossible  to  buy  him 
anything,  and  they  start  huddling  on  it 
days  ahead.  Phil  was  coming  in  on  leave 
this  year  and  Denny  was  flying  in,  too, 
as  a  surprise  that  week.  But  what  to  give 
Bing — that  was  up  to  Gary  and  Lin.  Their 
usual  routine  is  to  go  through  his  things 
and  try  to  find  something  to  replace. 

This  year  Gary  and  Lin  recalled  quite 
a  treasure  hunt  that  had  ensued  when 
Bing  tried  to  find  an  old  English  gabar- 
dine coat  he  wanted  to  wear  that  day  to 
a  ball  game.  Gary  and  Lin  looked  through 
their  dad's  closets — and  finally  found  the 
coat.  Bing  had  had  it  since  1947,  and  it 
had  slick  spots  and  a  hole  mended  here 
and  there.  They  found  a  number  on  the 
pocket,  and  discovered  from  the  lining 
that  it  came  from  Tripler's  in  New  York. 
They  rushed  an  inquiry  as  to  whether 
they  could  get  a  topcoat  like  the  one 
their  dad  had  purchased  there  eight  years 
before.  The  night  of  Bing's  birthday, 
they  had  his  cake  and  gifts  at  the  dinner 


table,  as  is  the  usual  family  custom.  He 
was  speechless  when  he  saw  the  coat. 
"Where  did  you  get  this?"  Then  he  con- 
fided, "You  know,  I've  got  another  just 
like  it — but  it's  getting  pretty  shot.   .   .   ." 

Gary's  home  life  is  a  far  cry  from  that 
pictured  so  humorously  on  the  Jack  Benny 
television  show.  There  are  no  butlers 
going  AWOL  wearing  Hawaiian  shirts. 
There's  not  even  a  butler.  In  their  Holmby 
Hills  place,  Bing  himself  often  answers  the 
phone.  On  Friday  night,  Gary's  friends 
have  a  tough  time  getting  through.  Not 
even  Notre  Dame  could  get  through.  This 
is  Lin's  first  free  night  from  school  and, 
as  Gary  says,  "He  moves  pretty  good  on 
weekends." 

They're  a  Warm  and  close  family — closer 
than  many  would  ever  suspect,  since  "un- 
derplaying" is  a  Crosby  family  trait.  For 
all  the  razzing  back  and  forth,  Gary  would 
be  the  first  to  tell  you  that  Lin  has  a 
future  in  show  business.  And  it's  Lirmy 
who  sneaks  the  "dubs"  of  Gary's  latest 
records  out  of  his  room  into  his  own  and 
plays  them  for  Bing.  As  in  many  another 
American  home,  the  whole  beat  of  the 
house  picks  up  when  Phil  and  Denny  are 
home  on  leave  .  .  .  and  the  beat  really 
drags  when  the  leaves  are  over — and  they 
know  Denny  won't  be  back  from  Germany 
for  two  years. 

Other  times,  you'll  usually  find  Gary's 
red  Mercury  parked  near  the  back  en- 
trance, where  he  can  grab  it  on  the  fly 
and  go.  Bing's  dog,  "Cindy,"  a  black  La- 
brador retriever,  wags  a  welcome  as  each 
member  of  the  family  drives  in.  In  the 
impressive  entrance  hall  hangs  the  ma- 
jestic hunting  picture  which  Bing  loves 
so  much  that  they've  always  kidded  him 
about  buying  a  house  large  enough  to 
hang  it.  And  through  the  hall  there  some- 
times spreads  the  essence  of  that  which 
smells  suspiciously  like  Irish  stew. 

Gary's  is  a  house  of  music.  There's  a 
record-player  in  his  room,  one  in  Lin's 
room,  and  another  their  father  uses  in  the 
library  downstairs.  And  they've  all  been 
known  to  be  going  simultaneously.  When 
Dixie  was  here — hers  was  usually  going, 
too.  Wherever  one  looks,  one  is  reminded 
of  her.  Family  photographs.  Her  collec- 
tions, which  Bing  still  carefully  preservesr 
"Topsy,"  her  black  French  poodle.  The 
coasters  under  your  gingerale  glass  are 
still  lettered  in  gold:    "Dixie  And  Bing." 

In  Gary's  home,  the  head  of  the  house, 
feeling  his  responsibility  doubly  today, 
gives  a  small  prayer  for  God  to  go  with 
them  wherever  the  boys  are.  And,  like 
any  father,  he  sleeps  easier  when  the 
final  count  says  they're  all  back  inside 
again.  Gary's  father  keeps  a  far  from 
casual  blue  eye  on  Gary's  career,  too.  The 
greatest  gift  Gary  can  give  him  is  to  keep 
swinging  and  earning  that  sheepskin  in 
show  business,  and  make  that  name  he 
wants  to  make  for  himself  on  his  own. 

Bing's  pride  in  Gary  and  his  faith  in 
him  and  his  hopes  for  him  all  show  when 
he  says,  "You  know,  it  was  quite  an  ab- 
rupt jump  for  him — right  out  of  school 
into  a  weekly  program  of  which  he  was 
the  emcee  and  which  he  was  supposed  to 
control.  And  I  suppose  the  jump  could 
have  been  cushioned  for  him  a  little  with 
some  more  experience  in  less  responsible 
assignments,  but  I  think  he's  over  that 
hump  now.  .  .  ." 

For  all  Bing  Crosby's  modest  acknowl- 
edgement about  Gary  growing  in  the 
"shadow  of  something  that's  already  built 
up,"  nobody  knows  better  than  Gary's 
father  how  challenging  and  how  over- 
powering that  shadow  could  be.  And  no- 
body could  be  more  proud  now — watch- 
ing Gary  go  in  swinging  and  singing  his 
way  out  of  the  "shadow"  to  find  his  own 
place  in  the  sun. 


Lustre  -  Creme 
Slianipoo... 


Cream  or  Lotion 


Yes,  Ann  BIyth  uses  Luslre-Creme 
Shampoo.  It's  tlie  favorite  of  4  out 
of  o  top  Hollywood  movie  stars! 

It  never  dries  your  hair!  Lustre- 
Creme  Shampoo  is  blessed  with 
lanolin  .  .  .  foams  into  rich  lather, 
even  in  hardest  water  .  .  .  leaves 
hair  so  easy  to  manage. 

It  beautifies!  For  soft,  bright,  fra- 
grantly clean  hair — without  special 
after-rinses — choose  the  shampoo  of 
America's  most  glamorous  women. 
Use  the  favorite  of  Hollywood  movie 
stars — Lustre-Creme  Shampoo. 


Neve?  Dries 


tifles ! 


co-starring  in  THE     KING'S    THIEF 
An  M-G-M  Production. 
In  CinemaScope.  In  Color. 


'— Ku/e 


WINSTON 


WINSTON  brings  flavor  back  to  filter  smoking! 


■  Winston  smokers  believe  that  smoking 
should  be  fun.  That  means  real  flavor  —  full, 
rich,  tobacco  flavor  —  and  Winston's  really 
got  it !  This  filter  cigarette  tastes  good  —  like 
a  cigarette  should ! 

Along  with  Winston's  finer  flavor,  you  get  a 
filter  that  really  does  the  job.  The  exclusive 
Winston  filter  vi^orks  so  effectively,  yet  lets 
you  draw  so  easily  and  enjoy  yourself  so  fully. 


S^^^  WINSTON  tilt  QOALj-dnmjiMCi  ^^  ckfcmittl 


R.  J.  Reynolds  Tobacco  Co., 
Winston-Salem.  N.  C. 


HU>IO 
MIRROR 


NEW! 

FESS  PARKER 

GODFREY  S  GANG 

HAL  MARCH 


iDIO  MIRROR'S  N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 


NNIS 
JVIES 


JULIUS  LA  ROSA 

Living's  Never  Easy 


LOIS  HUNT 

Lullaby  for  Baby 


GAIL  DAVIS 

Winsome  Annie  Oakley 

25^ 


YOUR    3iCIIM    VlflLL    LOVE 


'There's  nothing  like  it," 

says  Mrs.  Charles  J.  Gossner, 

a  radiant  Camay  Bride. 

'Cold  cream  Camay  is  the  perfect 

beauty  soap  as  far  as 

I'm  concerned.  It's  so  mild  and 

gentle  on  my  skin.  And  so 

delightfully  fragrant!" 


I 


Let  It  help  you 

to  a  softer,  fresher, 

more  radiant  complexion ! 


It's  a  great  day  for  your  beauty  when  you  discover  the  Caressing  Care 

of  cold  cream  Camay  with  its  exclusive  fragrance,  luxurious  lather, 

and  skin-pampering  mildness.  It's  no  wonder  gentle  Camay 

is  the  beauty  secret  of  so  many  exquisite  brides.  Let  its  tender  touch 

caress  j^owr  skin  to  new  loveliness,  too.  Change  to  regular  care  .  .  . 

u.sc  Camay  alone.  You'll  be  delighted  with  the  way  your  skin 

will  become  softer  .  .  .  smoother.  And  remember,  you  get  the  added 

luxury  of  fine  cold  cream  in  Camay  at  no  extra  cost.  For  your 

beauty  and  your  bath,  there's  no  finer  soap  in  all  the  world! 


THE  SOAP 


EAUTIFUL  WOMEN 


THIS  SPACE  RESERVED 

for  a  tooth  that  must  last  for  63  years 


Protect  your  child's  teeth  with  the  tooth 
paste  that  destroys  decay  bacteria  besF^ 

When  that  new  tooth  and  its  mates  ar- 
rive, they  face  a  lifetime  of  dangers. 

And  here's  a  shocker:  the  average  child 
loses  one  or  more  of  his  second  teeth 
while  stUL  in  his  teens. 

*Fortiinately,  new  Ipana  with  WD-9 
is  made  especially  to  help  you  keep  your 
children's  teeth  sound  and  healthy.  It 
destroys  tooth-decay  bacteria  better 
than  any  other  leading  tooth  paste . . . 
including  fluoride  tooth  paste. 

Teeth  get  remarkable  protection  with 
new  Ipana  because  of  decay-fighting 


WD-9.  In  Ipana's  special  formula,  it 
works  even  in  spaces  too  tiny  for  the 
tooth  brush  to  reach. 

Why  not  start  today  to  help  keep  your 
family's  teeth  sound  and  healthy — 
with  the  dentifrice  that  destroys  decay 
bacteria  better  than  any  other  lead- 
ing tooth  paste?  New-formula  Ipana 
with  WD-9. 

P.  S.  Because  regular  brushing  is  best, 
you'll  be  glad  Ipana  now  has  a  fresh, 
new,  minty  flavor  that  coaxes  kifjts  and 
grown-ups  to  brush. 

Ipana  A/C  Tooth  Paste  (Ammoniated 

Chlorophyll) also  contains  bacteria-de- 

'^IJ  stroyer  WD-9  (Sodium  Lauryl  Sulfate) 


PRODUCTS  OF  GRISTOL-MYERS 


New-Fbrmula  IPAN^lf  with  l/VD-9 

destroys  decay  bacteria  better 
than  any  other  leading  tooth  paste 


SEPTEMBER,  1955 


W  RADIO 
MIRROR 

N.Y.,  N.J.,  Conn.  Edition 


VOL.  44,  NO.  4 


Ann  Higginbotham,   Editor  ■* 

Ann  Mosher,   Executive  Editor  Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 

Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor  Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 

Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor  Joan    Clarke,   Art   Assistant 

Claire  Safran,  Assistant  Editor  Bud  Goode,  Ifest  Coast   Editor 


people  on  the  air 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  JiH  Warren  6 

A  Very  Good  Neighbor  (Dennis  James) by  Ernst  Jacobi  29 

Winsome  Annie  Oakley  (Gail  Davis) by  Peer  J.  Oppenheimer  32 

A  Mighty  Man  Is  He  (Fess  Parker) by  Fredda  Dudley  Balling  34 

Twice  Blessed  {Feather  Your  Nest) by  Lilla  Anderson  38 

Holiday  Time  for  Godfrey • by  Martin  Cohen  40 

Happiness  to  Share   (Frankie  Laine) by  Bud  Goode  56 

Help  Yourself  to  Living  (Tod  Andrews) by  Ed  Meyerson  58 

Stella  Dallas  (picture  story  from  the  beloved  dramatic  serial) 60 

He's  a  Big  Boy  Now  (Julius  La  Rosa) by  Ira  H.  Knaster  64 

Lois  Hunt's  Lullaby by  Gladys  Hall  66 

features  in  full  color 

The  $64,000  Question  (Hal  March) by  Gregory  Merwin  44 

Early  to  Love  (Bill  Hayes) by  Frances  Kish  46 

Unexpected  Romance  (Patricia  Wheel) by  Helen  Bolstad  50 

TV  Theatre  Close-up   (a  survey  of  dramatic  performers  and  shows)  52 

your  local  station 

At  Ease  with   Mark   Evans    (WTOP-TV) 4 

Clubhouse  Gang  Comedies    (WPIX) 8 

Mr.  Matinee    (WOR-TV ) 1* 

Hum  and  Strum  (WJAR-TV) 24 

your  special  services 

12 
Steve  Allen's  Turntable 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 

Daytime   Diary 

Information  Booth 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings) 

TV  Program  Highlights 

Dress  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 

Cover  portrait  of  Dennis  James  by  Jay  Seymour 


»'•• 


^^^W 


buy  your  October  copy  early  •  on  sale  September  6 


PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  by  Macfaddcn  Publications.  Inc.,  New 
S-^cJ^T-.v\,  AOV.RT,S.NG  AND  -°'TOR.AL  OFr.CE.S^^a^t 
205    East    42nd  ,v'"-'S';  ■  ,.':,^  n,.ivi'     llovc'rly    Hills,    Cnlit..    and 

|e'c°?e?S'''an'if''Tr^as,i?orr'Adie?tirin«  omcs  also   In   Ch.caBo 

and  San  F'"J'.'l?i?'^2-„TP€:.    v%  OO   one   year,    U.    S.    and   Posses- 
SU BSCB I PT ION    R ATES.    »3-"0   °,"^  / „,i 'other  countries, 
si.ins  and  <-an=<Jj;-_*;ii';'Vw,-ouX'    notice  essential.    When  pos- 
CHANGE  OF  A"°"";, ''  " ;.Vmine"'i>>n    address    from    a    re- 
Bible,    please  .'nrnl^n    Jti-nc'i  nnj  i'-  jj  j.g„j  us 

cent  's»^"'-.A1^,;;^'f«„J''=;;g;;-",f,:;;'  LidrSs^   write   to   TV   Radio 


or      loss      or     Uillln»KV:.       *- 

Member  of  the  TRUE 


^rENT^i'k'^^'as  second  C.^ss  Matter    .t,ne  28     l„954,^at_^the 

?g^V°?5V^^g3Hl^?/g5'lf  l..?;?il.d?n  ?ub'?fc''a'tion°lf:?^?: 
Sri'Vifh\T?lse'??i;X'LM;^«na^a^ 

Color   Printing  Company. 
STOKY   Women's   Group 


You  can  lose  him  quick  ^I'iien  your 


starts  slipping 


Take  mary  ann's  case  ...  the  very  first 
day  she  arrived  at  the  attractive  little 
seaside  hotel  the  best-looking  man  in  the 
place  latched  on  to  her.  And,  before  she 
knew  it,  she  was  in  the  middle  of  a  gay 
whirl.  They  went  everywhere  together 
...  to  the  beaches  and  to  the  nicest  clubs. 

Then,  all  of  a  sudden,  his  interest 
turned  to  indifference.  She  simply 
couldn't  account  for  it.  What  she  didn't 
realize  was  that  her  charm  had  started 
slipping.  It  could  happen  to  any  girl .  .  . 
it  could  happen  to  you  . .  .  when  she  lets 
halitosis  (unpleasant  breath)  get  the 
upper  hand. 

Listerine  Antiseptic  does  for  you  what 


no  tooth  paste  does.  Listerine 
instantly  kills  germs — stops 
bad  breath  instantly,  and  usu- 
ally for  hours  on  end. 

Far  and  away  the  most  common  cause 
of  bad  breath  is  germs.  You  see,  germs 
cause  fermentation  of  proteins,  which 
are  always  present  in  the  mouth.  And 
research  shoivs  that  your  breath  stays 
sweeter  longer,  the  more  you  reduce  germs 
in  the  mouth. 

No  Tooth  Paste  Kills  Odor  Germs 
Like  This  .  .  .  Instantly 

Tooth  paste  with  the  aid  of  a  tooth 
brush  is  an  effective  method  of  oral 
hygiene.  But  no  tooth  paste  gives  you 


the  proven  Listerine  Antiseptic 
method — banishing  bad  breath 
with  super-efficient  germ-kill- 
ing action. 

Listerine  Clinically  Proved 
Four  Times  Better  Than  Tooth  Paste 

Is  it  any  wonder  Listerine  Antiseptic  in 
recent  clinical  tests  averaged  at  least 
four  times  more  eifective  in  stopping 
bad  breath  odors  than  the  chlorophyll 
products  or  tooth  pastes  it  was  tested 
against?  With  proof  like  this,  it's  easy 
to  see  why  Listerine  belongs  in  your 
home.  Every  morning  .  .  .  every  night 
.  .  .  before  every  date,  make  it  a  habit 
to  use  Listerine,  the  most  widely  used 
antiseptic  in  the  world. 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC  STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  times  better  than  any  tooth  paste 


at  ease  with 
Mark  Evans 


Mornrng  coffee  with  Mark  Evans  is  always  fun,  takes  on^ 
added  glomour  with   top  guests  such   as   Grace   Kelly. 


Washington  s  top  emcee  has  made  his 
morning  show  a  must  for  WTOP-TV  viewers 


Mark  may  ad-lib  on  TV,  but  Nancy,  Wendy  and 

Penny   like   him   to  follow   a    nursery-book   script. 


QUESTIONS,  national  and  international,  took  second 
place  for  two  Washingtonians,  when  The  Mark 
Evans  Show  on  Station  WTOP-TV  switched  from 
the  early  evening  hours  to  a  9:30  A.M.  slot,  Mon- 
day through  Friday.  The  show's  producer  and  director 
wondered  whether  the  outstanding  guests  who  had 
gladly  turned  up  for  a  P.M.  appearance  would  be 
amenable  to  A.M.  visits  as  well.  After  all,  most  cele- 
brated people,  in  show  business  and  other  fields,  are 
noted  for  sleeping  late.  .  .  .  But  the  question  never 
reached  investigating -committee  proportions.  A  partial 
list  of  those  who  have  braved  the  dawn's  early  light  to 
guest  with  Mark  includes  Grace  Kelly,  Lord  Dunsany, 
Alec  Templeton,  Ivy  Baker  Priest,  Kirk  Douglas,  George 
Meany  and  Miss  America.  .  .  .  When  Mark  first  went  on 
TV  three  years  ago,  he  had  a  "built-in"  audience.  After 
five  years  on  WTOP  Radio,  the  easygoing  Mr.  Evans 
had  thousands  of  friends  anxious  to  see  what  the  host  of 
the  Hotcsevnves'  Protective  League  looked  like.  As  is 
usually  the  custom  on  HPL,  the  host's  identity  had  not 
been  disclosed,  but  Mark's  wit  and  personality  never 
were  the  sort  to  remain  anonymous  for  long.  ...  In  ad- 
dition to  his  famed  guests,  Mark  spotlights  many  com- 


munity events  and  is  one  of  the  town's  most  sought-after 
masters  of  ceremonies.  Assisting  him  with  the  more  fem- 
inine chores  on  the  show  is  Angela  Bayer,  a  dark-haired 
beauty  who  demonstrates  the  food  products  advertised 
on  the  program  and  handles  the  homemaking  and  fash- 
ion hints.  A  yearly  feature,  the  "Mark  Evans  April  Fool 
Birthday  Party,"  started  out  as  a  gag.  Now  it's  a  tra- 
dition for  Mark  to  invite  all  Washington  folk  born  on  his 
birthday,  April  1st,  to  be  his  guests  for  breakfast.  This 
year,  the  number  topped  the  200  mark.  .  .  .  Part  of  the 
reason  for  Mark's  continued  success  is  his  active  partici- 
pation in  such  organizations  as  the  Rotary  Club,  the  Boy 
Scouts,  the  USO,  the  Metropolitan  Police  Boys  Club  and 
the  Suburban  Hospital.  He  is  an  active  member  of  the 
Church  of  the  Latter  Day  Saints.  ...  A  favorite  with 
Washington  women,  Mark  has  a  quartet  of  females  at 
home — ^his  wife  Lola  and  three  daughters:  Nancy,  9, 
Penny,  7,  and  Wendy,  3.  He's  a  great  travel  enthusiast, 
and  bagged  more  than  his  share  of  game  on  a  hunting 
expedition  to  Africa  last  year.  Huntsman  and  angler 
Evans  also  relaxes  on  the  golf  course.  But  he's  most  re- 
laxed while  breakfasting  with  thousands  of  WTOP-TV 
viewers  who  are  always  at  ease  with  Mark  Evans. 


INTRODUCING  NEW 


Cutfs  ate.  Sofht/ 
Eos/erfoSefi 


REGULAR  PRICE  89^ 


YOURS  ONLY  59^ 


WHILE 
OFFIR  HOLDS 


ON  GIANT 
IZdZ-SIZE 


We  offer  this  big  saving  because  we  know — -once  you  »ry 
PALMOMVE  SOfr  SHAMPOO,  you'H  always  use  ?t.  Tell  your 
friends!  Hurry!  Regular  89^^  price  (even  that's  a  borgain) 
comes  back  when  limited  Special  Offer  supply  is  gone. 


,^?^^^J■^^^^  ^i...  >.fJ^y^^WKtW«ij^^j>W^ 


TODAY. ..GET  NEW  PALMOLIVE  SOFT  SHAMPOO! 


^ 


•  By  Jill  Warren 


Fibber  McGee  And  Molly — alias  Jim  and  Marian  Jordan — have 
added  a  daily  NBC  Radio  morning  show  to  their  evening  stanza. 


Songstress  Edith  Adams,  wife  of  comedion  Ernie  Ko- 
vacs,  adds  music  and  mirth  to  Jack  Poor's  new  show. 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM 


HELEN  Hayes  and  Mary  Martin 
have  been  signed  by  NBC -TV 
to  co-star  in  "The  Skin  of  Our 
Teeth,"  on  September  11.  This  will 
be  the  first  of  the  1955-56  season's 
Sunday  night  "Color  Spread  Spec- 
taculars," and  will  also  be  seen  in 
black  and  white.  The  production  of 
Thornton  Wilder's  Pulitzer  Prize- 
winning  play  will  run  two  hours  and 
will  be  identical  to  the  presentation 
done  in  Paris  this  summer  as  part 
of  the  "Salute  to  France"  festival. 
Distinguished  actress  Florence  Reed 
and  noted  Broadway  producer 
George  Abbott  will  play  supporting 
roles.  "The  Skin  of  Our  Teeth"  will 
mark  the  first  TV  appearance  of  Mary 
Martin  since  her  triumphant  por- 
trayal of  "Peter  Pan"  last  March. 

In  case  you've  missed  it.  Musical 
Chairs  is  the  new  novelty  panel  show 
on  NBC -TV  Saturday  nights,  in  the 
time  spot  formerly  occupied  by  Imo- 
gene  Coca.  The  program  features  the 
talents  of  composer-singer  Johnny 
Mercer,  multi-voiced  comic  Mel 
Blanc,  Bobby  Troup's  orchestra,  the 
Cheerleaders  vocal  quintet,  Bill 
Leyden  as  permanent  moderator,  and 
a  top  female  vocalist  each  week. 

Frankie  Laine,  in  addition  to  his 
Guild  Films  show,  has  been  doing 
very  well  on  his  first  live  network 


TV  show  as  summer  replacement  for 
Arthur  Godfrey's  Wednesday  night 
show  over  CBS -TV.  Frankie  heads 
up  a  variety  hour,  complete  with 
orchestra,  dancers  and  guest  stars. 
Arthur  and  his  gang  are  slated  to 
return  early  in  September. 

Singer-pianist  Matt  Dennis  is  fill- 
ing in  for  both  Tony  Martin  and 
Eddie  Fisher  on  NBC-TV  while  the 
crooners  are  on  vacation.  Matt  is 
well-known  in  the  night-club  field 
and  in  addition  to  his  piano  and 
vocal  work,  is  a  composer  of  note. 
Some  of  his  best-remembered  tunes 
are  "Everything  Happens  to  Me," 
"Let's  Get  Away  from  It  All,"  "Will 
You  Still  Be  Mine?"  and  "The  Night 
We  Called  It  a  Day."  Matt  also  re- 
cords for  RCA  Victor. 

Comedian  Jack  Paar  has  a  new 
show  on  CBS-TV,  a  thirty-minute 
comedy,  music  and  variety  wingding, 
Monday  through  Friday  afternoons. 
Jack  is  supported  by  the  same  cast 
who  worked  with  him  on  The  Morn- 
ing Show — singers  Edith  Adams  and 
Charlie  Applewhite  and  Cuban 
pianist,  Jose  Melis.  Jack's  new  show 
takes  over  the  time  spots  vacated  by 
two  dramatic  serials,  Ti^e  Inner 
Flame  and  the  TV  version  of  The 
Road  Of  Life. 

On  NBC-TV,   two  other  daytime 


dramas.  The  Greatest  Gift  and  Con- 
cerning Miss  Marlowe,  make  room 
for  a  new  TV  version  of  an  old  radio 
favorite,  It  Pays  To  Be  Married.  Bill 
Goodwin  emcees  the  unique  quiz. 

On  radio,  the  daytime  drama 
schedule  also  saw  some  changes  as 
Backstage  Wife  moved  to  CBS  and 
Hilltop  House  and  Rosemary  were 
canceled. 

Popular  Dennis  James  is  back 
with  his  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime  on 
Sunday  nights  over  ABC-TV.  The 
half-hour  talent  show  is  scheduled 
just  for  the  summer  in  this  time  pe- 
riod, but  may  find  a  permanent  spot 
in  the  fall. 

Sports  fans  should  find  interesting 
viewing  fare  in  the  new  Madison 
Square  Garden  Highlights,  Thursday 
nights  on  ABC -TV.  It's  a  filmed  half- 
hour  presenting  clips  of  exciting  mo- 
ments of  fisticuflfs  which  took  place 
in  the  famed  boxing  arena  of  the 
Garden. 

CBS-TV  has  a  new  dramatic  show, 
Windows,  on  Friday  nights,  substi- 
tuting for  Person  To  Person.  The 
series  of  live  plays  uses  a  rotating 
cast  each  week,  and  each  program 
opens  with  a  picture  of  an  ordinary 
window,  through  which  the  televi- 
sion camera  moves  as  the  story  un- 
folds. 


On  his  first  New  York  visit,  Frank  Cotter — brother  of  the  famous  TV 
Meadows  sisters — joins  sister  Audrey  ond   restaurateur  Arnaando. 


Another  regular  in  the  vocal  department  of  Poor's 
show  is  the  young  and  popular  Charlie  Applewhite. 


I 


Soupy  Sales  has  been  replacing 
the  Kukla,  Fran  And  Ollie  daily  show 
on  ABC-TV  while  Burr  Tilstrom 
and  his  happy  little  people  are  on 
vacation.  Soupy  is  a  very  popular 
personality  with  the  small  fry  in  De- 
troit, from  where  his  show  originates. 
This  is  the  first  TV  production  ever 
to  go  live  over  a  network  from  De- 
troit, by  the  way.  With  emphasis  on 
puppet  comedy  and  fantasy,  Soupy 
has  as  his  helpers  such  characters  as 
White  Fang,  Black  Tooth,  Herman 
The  Flea,  Willie  The  Worm,  and 
Marilyn  Monwolf. 

This  'n'  That: 

CBS-TV  is  planning  a  big  series  of 
Saturday-night  extravaganzas,  to  be- 
gin this  fall,  the  date  still  to  be  an- 
nounced. They  have  already  lined  up 
such  stars  as  Noel  Coward,  who  is 
scheduled  for  three  appearances, 
Mary  Martin,  to  co-star  with  Coward 
in  at  least  one  show,  Bing  Crosby, 
who  is  slated  for  three  shows,  and 
Jack  Benny  for  one  or  more. 

Radio  and  TV  songstress  Martha 
Wright  became  a  bride  a  few  weeks 
ago  in  Newburgh,  New  York.  The 
lucky  man  is  George  (Mike)  Man- 
uche,  Jr.,  a  Manhattan  restaurateur, 
and  formerly  a  Holy  Cross  football 
star.  He  was  also  a  Pacific  war  hero. 


Actress  Julie  Stevens,  star  of  The 
Romance  of  Helen  Trent,  has  been 
spending  her  free  time  this  summer 
acting  as  adviser  and  workshop  di- 
rector to  the  very  active  little-theater 
group  in  Valhalla,  New  York.  Helen 
Trent,  incidentally,  has  just  started 
her  twenty-third  year  on  radio. 

With  practically  every  sponsor 
after  Bob  Hope's  exclusive  television 
services  for  the  1955-56  season,  NBC- 
TV  was  the  winner.  They  signed  the 
comedian  to  a  new  five-year  con- 
tract, and  he  is  set  to  star  in  six,  or 
possibly  eight,  hour-long  variety 
programs  on  several  different  Tues- 
day nights. 

Conductor  Archie  Bleyer  and  his 
wife,  Janet  Ertel,  one  of  the  Chord- 
ettes,  took  off  for  Europe  on  a  com- 
bination vacation-business  trip.  Gin- 
ny  Osborn,  the  original  "tenor"  voice 
with  the  gal  quartette,  is  filling  in 
for  Janet  temporarily,  and  is  singing 
Janet's  "bass"  part.  This  is  the  first 
time  Ginny  has  done  any  professional 
vocalizing  since  she  married  Tom 
Lockhard,  one  of  The  Mariners. 

Elizabeth  Montgomery,  actress- 
daughter  of  Robert  Montgomery, 
and  her  husband,  assistant  TV  direc- 
tor Frederick  Cammann,  have  come 
to  the  parting  of  the  ways.  Elizabeth 
is  now  in  Nevada,  establishing  resi- 


dence for  a  divorce.  When  it  is 
granted  she  plans  to  forsake  televi- 
sion for  a  while  and  work  in  her  first 
movie,  some  time  this  month. 

Tragedy  hit  Imogene  Coca  a 
double  blow  when  both  her  mother 
and  her  husband,  Robert  Burton, 
died  within  a  month.  The  little  come- 
dienne and  Burton  had  been  es- 
tranged, but  were  reconciled  follow- 
ing her  mother's  passing.  Burton,  a 
New  York  businessman,  had  been  in 
ill  health  for  some  time. 

Pat  Marshall,  who  formerly  sang 
on  Steve  Allen's  Tonight  show,  and 
then  went  into  night-club  work,  has 
replaced  Janis  Paige  as  the  feminine 
star  of  the  Broadway  musical  smash, 
"Pajama  Game."  Janis  left  the  show 
to  go  to  Hollywood  to  film  her  new 
series,  It's  Always  Jan,  which  is 
slated  to  debut  on  CBS-TV  about 
September  10.  It's  a  situation  comedy, 
set  in  a  night  club,  with  Janis  playing 
the  role  of  a  singer. 

If  you  thought  the  Davy  Crockett 
business  had  about  run  its  course, 
get  ready  for  more.  There's  a  whole 
new  series  planned  this  fall  on  the 
Disneyland  show  over  ABC-TV,  and 
it's  presently  being  fUmed,  both  in 
Kentucky  and  in  Hollywood.  "The 
Legends  of  Davy  Crockett"  will  soon 
be  with  us.  {Continued  on  page  10) 


Actress  Jean  Darling,  former  "gong"  mem- 
ber, enjoys  a  Clubhouse  visit  with  Joe  Bolton. 


Remember  them?  "Farina"  and  "Jackie"  make  a 
very  important  phone  call  while,  below,  "Dickie," 
"Stymie"  and  "Spanky"  take  over  in  the  kitchen. 


Stars  of  yesterday:  A  scene  from  "The  Little  Rascals"  shows  the  gang  with 
their  mascot   Petie,   preparing   to   set  forth   on   a    hilarious  fishing   trip. 

Clubhouse  Gang 
Comedies 


SINCE  the  beginning  of  television,  old  Hollywood  movies 
have  been  the  bane  of  that  medium's  existence.  Recently, 
however,  Station  WPIX  viewers  have  experienced  a  happy 
change  of  heart,  thanks  to  Clubhouse  Gang  Comedies  and 
its  showing  of  the  "Our  Gang"  movies  made  some  25  years 
ago  by  Hal  Roach,  Sr.   Seen  Monday  through  Saturday  at 
5:30  P.M.  and  Monday  through  Friday  at  10:30  P.M.,  the 
Clubhouse  is  presided  over  by  Joe  Bolton,  who  likens  himself 
to  the  friendly  police  officer  on  the  corner,  daily  plays  host 
to  18  youngsters,  advises  little  viewers  on  safety  habits,  then 
presents  the  old  one-  and  two-reel  films  which  find  "Spanky," 
"Farina,"  "Alfalfa"  and  the  rest  of  the  "Gang"  getting  into 
all  sorts  of  hilarious  but  harmless  mischief. 

The  tremendous  success  of  this  series,  which  is  shown  in 
some  60  cities  throughout  the  country,  has  stimulated  a  new 
interest  in  the  former  "Gang"  members.  Many  of  them, 
such  as  Jackie  Cooper,  Nanette  Fabray,  Eddie  Bracken  and 
Jean  Darling,  have  continued  to  star  in  movies,  on  the  stage 
in  radio  and  TV.   Others  ventured  into  different  fields. 
Joe  Cobb,  the  chubby  member  of  the  "Gang,"  is  now  an 
aircraft  worker  in  California.  Mary  Kornman  is  married  to  a 
California  rancher  and  together  they  train  horses  for  TV 
and  the  movies.   George  "Spanky"  MacFarland  was  a 
salesman  until  the  recent  revival  of  the  comedies  created  a 
demand  for  him  in  TV  and  movies.   Carl  "Alfalfa"  Switzer 
was  a  hunting  guide  until  two  years  ago,  when  he  resumed 
his  movie  career  in  "The  High  and  the  Mighty." 

Although  never  a  member  of  the  "Gang,"  Joe  Bolton  well 
remembers  its  heyday,  for  he  was  then  breaking  into  show 
business  via  radio.   Starting  out  as  a  banjo  player,  Joe  went 
on  to  become  an  announcer,  emcee,  and  sportscaster  at 
various  stations  in  New  Jersey  and  New  York.   His  switch  to 
TV  occurred  in  1948  when  he  joined  WPIX — before  it  even 
began  telecasting — to  become  a  "general  man  about  the 
station."  As  friendly  as  he  is  versatile,  Joe  is  experienced  in 
getting  along  with  youngsters,  for  he  has  three  of  his  own — 
Joe,  Jr.,  a  college  student,  and  James  and  Catherine,  who 
are  still  in  high  school. 

Since  its  debut  last  January,  Clubhouse  Gang  Comedies  has 
become  the  most  popular  daytime  TV  offering  in  the  New 
York  area.   Having  gained  added  fame  as  "the  show 
recommended  by  children  for  adults,"  it  promises  to  provide 
entertainment — ^for  young  and  old — for  a  long  time  to  come. 


Soft,  and  natural  right  from  the  start  .  .  .  that's 
the  "Belinda"  hairstyle  alter  a  Bobbi.  A  Bobbi  is  so 
easv  to  give,  no  help  is  needed. 


With  Bobbi  you  get  waves  exactl)  \^  here  you 
want  them,  the  way  you  want  them.  Notice  the 
easy,  gentle  look  of  this  "Beau's  Ideal"  hairdo. 


Bobbi  is  specially  designed  to  give  the  sottiy  feminine  wave  necessary  for  this 
new  "Sugarplum"  hairstyle.  No  regular  nightly  settings  are  needed. 


Softly  feminine  liairstyies  like  these 
always  begin  with  a  Bobbi 

the  special  pin-curl  permanent  for  soft,  natural  curls 

Never  tight,  never  fussy — that's  the  beautiful  thing  about  a  Bobbi, 
the  easy,  pin-curl  permanent  that's  specially  designed  to  give  softly 
feminine  curls.  From  the  very  first  day  your  Bobbi  will  have  the  body, 
the  soft,  lovely  look  of  naturally  wavy  hair.  Your  curls  and  waves 
last  week  after  week  and  they  are  exactly  where  you  want  them. 

Now,  Bobbi  is  easier,  faster  than  ever.  Pin-curl  your  hair,  apply 
Special  Bobbi  Creme  Oil  Lotion  just  once.  Rinse  with  water  15 
minutes  later.  Let  dry,  brush  out.  Right  away  you'll  have  soft, 
natural  flzttering  curls.  Make  your  next  permanent  a  Bobbi. 


Netv  20-Page  Hairstyle  Booklet.  Easy-to-follow  setting  instructions  for 
new  softly  feminine  hairstyles.  Hints!  Tips!  Send  your  name,  address 
with  100  in  coin  to:  Bobbi,  Box  3600,  Merchandise  Mart,  Chicago,  III. 


Bobbi's  specialty  is  young,  free  and  easy  hairstyles 

like  this  "Cover  Girl"  hairdo.   And  the  curl  is  there       Just  pin-curls  and  Bobbi.  No  separate  neutralizer,  no  curlers,  no  resetting.  Every- 

to  stay  in  all  kinds  of  weather.  thing  you  need— New  Creme  Oil  Lotion,  special  Bobbi  pins.  $1.50  plus  tax. 


WHAT'S   NEW  FROM 

(Continued  from  page  7) 


10 


with  CARL  BENTON  REID  •  NATALIE  WOOD  -WILLIAM  HOPPER 

by  JERRY  HOPPER  •  Scteenplay  by  LAWRENCE  ROMAN  and  ROBERT  BLEES  •  Produced  by  ROSS  HUNTER 


COMING     SOON     TO     YOUR     FAVORITE     THEATRE 


Directed 


Lively   Janis    Paige   stars   in   a    new 
TV  comedy  beginning  in  September. 


Another  historical  figure,  Dan'I  Boone, 

whose  supporters  claim  he  was  blazing 
trails  long  before  a  lot  of  other  "Johnny- 
come-latelies,"  now  speaks  his  piece  on 
a  daily  five-minute  program  over  NBC 
Radio.  Nobody's  telling  who's  playing 
Dan'I,  but  the  yarns  and  folk  songs  are 
accompanied  by   Tom  Glazer  on  guitar. 

And,  from  Sherwood  Forest,  to  once 
again  champion  the  poor,  comes  the  hand- 
somest of  Robin  Hoods,  Richard  Greene, 
who  will  play  the  romantic  bandit  in  a 
new  CBS-TV  series  starting  September 
26.  The  films  will  be  made  in  England, 
produced  by  Anthony  Bartley,  who  is 
married  to  actress  Deborah  Kerr. 

And  speaking  of  legends,  the  Crosby 
clan  is  fast  becoming  one,  with  more  tal- 
ented members  popping  up  all  the  time. 
This  summer,  Cathy  Crosby,  Bob's  six- 
teen-year-old daughter,  joined  her  cousin 
Gary,  "Bing's  Boy,"  to  guest  on  the  Boh 
Crosby  Show  on  CBS-TV.  Cathy  is  the 
latest  Crosby  to  have  a  CBS  contract. 

Perry  Como  hopes  to  give  Jackie  Glea- 
son  a  run  for  his  $11,000,000  contract.  The 
new  hour-long  Como  show,  Saturdays  on 
NBC-TV,  has  now  been  scheduled  to  start 
at  8  P.M.  EDT.  Jackie  bows  with  "The 
Honeymooners"  over  CBS-TV  at  8: 30. 
At  8:25,  Old  Per  plans  to  start  a  ten- 
minute  segment  that  will  be  so  absorbing 
that  viewers  will  keep  hands  off.  that  dial 
— he  hopes. 

Comedienne  Martha  Raye  signed  a 
Gleason-type  contract  with  NBC.  It's  a 
60-page  document  involving  something 
like  $10,000,000  over  a  fifteen-year  period. 
It  goes  into  effect  September  27  when 
Martha  will  make  the  first  of  thirteen  ap- 
pearances in  the  Tuesday-at-eight  spot 
The  contract,  negotiated  by  Martha's 
manager  and  ex-husband,  Nick  Condos 
calls  for  NBC  to  pay  Martha  even  if  she 
decides  to  quit  after  the  first  five  years 
of  service. 

The  piano  gives  off  with  a  pleasant 
sound  when  Steve  Allen  tickles  th(^ 
ivories  on  Tonight.  But  as  star  of  the 
movie,  "The  Benny  Goodman  Story," 
Steve  will  signal  for  the  downbeat  and 
the  music  will  be  made  by  such  Goodman 
alumni  as  Gene  Krupa,  Teddy  Wilson 
Lionel  Hampton,  Harry  James  and  Ziggy 
Elman.  All  told,  there'll  be  29  tunes  thai 
have  been  linked  with  B.  G.  during  his 
career. 


i 


COAST  TO  COAST 


Young    Dr.    Malone — Sandy    Becker 
— also  emcees  TV's  Looiiev  Tunes. 


Jack  Webb  also  leads  a  jazz  band  for 

■  the    movie     cameras     in     "Pete     Kelly's 
Blues,"  a  film  that  recreates  the  Twenties 

'i,   with  such  nostalgic  notes  as  glimpses  of 

■  the  Duke  of  Windsor. 

'       One    of    the    oldest    programs    on    TV, 
^  "Smilin"  Ed's  Gang,"  returns  August  20. 

Andy  Devine  will  take  over  for  the  late, 
'■    beloved  Ed  McConnell,  with  the  show  to 

be  known  as  Andy's  Gang. 
Andy's   partner   on   Wild    Bill   Hickok, 
'    Guy   Madison,  who  plays  the   title   role, 

•  '  welcomed  a  future  Wild  Bill  fan,  his  new 

•  daughter,  Bridget  Catherine. 


Mulling  The  Mail: 

Mrs.  L.  v.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.:  Joan  Al- 
exander will  be  back  on  The  Navie's  The 
Same  shortly.  She  only  took  a  leave  of 
absence  from  the  program  in  order  to  re- 
place Patricia  Jessel  in  the  Broadway 
dramatic  hit,  "Witness  for  the  Prosecu- 
tion," while  Patricia  vacationed  in  Eng- 
land. .  .  .  Marlowe  fans,  Romulus,  Mich.: 
Marian  Marlowe  has  no  regular  television 
show  now,  but  the  ex-Little  Godfrey  has 
signed  to  make  several  guest  appearances 
with  Ed  Sullivan  on  Toast  Of  The  Town. 
There  is  a  possibility  she  will  be  making 
a  night-club  appearance  in  Detroit  later 
on  this  year.  .  .  .  Mrs.  J.  B.,  Boston,  Mass.: 
The  Road  Of  Life  has  gone  off  television, 
but  it  is  still  on  radio.  .  .  .  Mr.  A.  McL., 
San  Antonio,  Tex.:  You  are  right,  and 
your  friend  loses  the  bet.  Betty  Johnson, 
the  song  girl  on  Don  McNeill's  Breakfast 
Club,  did  get  her  professional  start  with 
her  talented  family,  well-known  for  years 
in  radio  and  on  records  as  the  Johnson 
Family  Singers.  .  .  .  Miss  D.  B.,  Gatesville, 
Tex.:    Gisele   MacKenzie  is  not  married 

nor  engaged Mrs.  G.  R.,  Cleveland,  O.: 

The  part  of  Mrs.  Brown  on  This  Is  Nora 
Drake  is  played  by  Katherine  Emmett, 
noted  New  York  stage  actress.  .  .  .  Mr. 
C.  L.,  Omaha,  Neb.:  Singer  Denise  Lor 
is  married.  Her  husband's  name  is  Jay 
Martin,  and  he  is  also  a  singer,  who 
records  under  the  name  of  Brud  Jones. 
.  .  .  Miss  H.  S.,  Cupertino,  Calif.:  The 
best  place  to  write  Ina  Rae  Hutton  re- 
garding her  all-girl  orchestra  would  be 
c/o  Guild  Films,  Hollywood,  California. 
.  .  .  Mrs.  M.  B.,  Massillon,  Ohio:  Sandy 
Becker,  who  has  played  Young  Doctor 
Malone  for  many  years  on  radio,  has 
{Continued  on  page  18) 


What  I M 
may  shock 
you. ..but  ^ 

a  woman  has 
the  right  to  . 
use  every   '  *  * 
female  weapon 
to  hold  the  man 
she  loves"    I 


l0u'0€lMf£\QfiteA^M/ioria£p'tei»nl4 


JOSE 


JUNE 

ALLYSON 


EVERY  SHOCKING  EMOTION  Of 
THE  Gi.lM  PUUTZER  PRIZE  PLAY! 


with  JOY  PAGE  •  KENDALL  CLARK  •  ISABEL  BONNER 

Directed  by  JOSE  FERRER  •  Screenplay  by  KETTl  FRINGS 

Based  on  Hie  play  by  JOSEPH  KRAMM  ■  Produced  by  AARON  ROSENBERG 


COMING   SOON   TO   YOUR   FAVORITE   THEATRE 


1] 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


GREETINGS  from  Hollywood  again,  where 
I'm  in  the  middle  of  shooting  "The 
Benny  Goodman  Story"  and  am  enjoying 
every  minute  of  it.  I've  got  my  turntable 
right  in  my  dressing  room,  and  between 
scenes  the  latest  record  releases  have  been 
going  'round  and  'round.  Lots  of  variety 
this  month,  which  makes  for  good  sum- 
mertime  listening. 

Johnnie  Ray  has  two  new  sides,  either 
one  of  which  could  be  another  click  for 
him.  The  first  is  a  pretty  ballad,  "Song  of 
the  Dreamer,"  and  the  second,  an  oddly- 
titled  song,  "I've  Got  So  Many  Million 
Years"  (That  I  Can't  Count  Them).  (Col- 
umbia) 

David  Rose  and  his  orchestra  play 
"Simamertime  in  Venice"  and  "Violin" 
(Let  Your  Song  Begin),  with  full  Rose 
arrangements  featuring  the  string  instru- 
ments, in  his  usual  tasteful  style.  The  A 
side  is  the  haunting  theme  of  the  new 
Katharine  Hepburn  picture,  "Stunmer- 
time,"  and  it's  a  melody  you'll  probably 
be  hearing  for  months  to  come.  (M-G-M) 

"Summertime  in  Venice"  is  also  Jane 
Froman's  newest  record,  and  a  mighty 
good  one  it  is.  Jane  is  in  great  voice  and 
her  lyric  interpretation  is  excellent.  On  the 
reverse  she  does  "You're  the  Answer  to 
My  Prayer,"  a  new  ballad.  Sid  Feller's 
orchestra  accompanies  on  both.    (Capitol) 

The  Sauter-Finnegan  orchestra  has  a 
new  jazz  album  called,  "The  Sons  of 
Sauter-Finnegan,"  and  it  really  rings  the 
bell.  There  are  several  standards  and  some 
interesting  originals,  especially  "Two  Bats 
in  a  Cave,"  as  done  by  trumpeters  Nick 
Travis  and  Bobby  Nichols.  The  boys  do 
this  in  fugue  style  with  no  orchestral  back- 
ing, and  the  jazz  fans  should  love  it. 
(Victor) 

Decca  has  teamed  up  one  of  their  top 
platter  salesmen,  Sammy  Davis,  Jr.,  with 
Carmen  McRae — a  singing  gal  from  whom 
Decca  expects  big  things — and  the  result 
is  a  pleasing  record.  Carmen  and  Sammy 
blend  their  voices  on  a  cute  tune,  "I  Go 
for  You,"  and  revive  the  oldie,  "A  Fine 
Romance,"  which  Decca  originally  re- 
leased many  years  ago  with  Bing  Crosby 
and  his  late  wife,  Dixie  Lee. 

Jackie  Gleason  has  had  another  musical 
brainstorm,  and  this  time  he  has  come  up 
with  an  album  called  "Captain  Gleason's 
Garden  Band."  Jack  takes  you  right  out 
to  the  park  for  an  afternoon  band  con- 
cert, complete  with  tubas  and  French 
horns,  etc.  Jackie  previewed  two  of  the 
J  songs  from  the  album  on  his  TV  show  a 
y  few  weeks  ago — "In  the  Good  Old  Sum- 
P  mertime"  and  "The  Band  Played  On."  The 
other  two  are  "In  the  Shade  of  the  Old 
Apple   Tree,"   and    "Too   Much   Mustard." 

12 


Wonder  what  the  Wonder  Man  will  think 
up  for  his  next  albtim.  (Capitol) 

The  lass  with  the  financial  name,  Jaye 
P.  Morgan,  is  moving  right  along  in  her 
vocal  career,  and  her  new  record  shouldn't 
slow  her  pace  a  bit.  Jaye  sings  the  ever- 
lovin'  "Swanee,"  in  up  tempo,  coupled 
with  a  slow  ballad,  "The  Longest  Walk." 
Hugo  Winterhalter  conducts.   (Victor) 

"Fred  Astaire's  Cavalcade  of  Dance"  is 
the  title  of  an  album  by  Paul  Whiteman 
and  his  "new"  Palais  Royale  Orchestra. 
There  are  twelve  dance  numbers,  all  quite 
right  for  just  about  any  heel-and-toe  stuff 
you  might  want  to  do.  Included  are  waltz- 
es, tangos,  fox  trots,  etc.,  with  the  tunes 
ranging  all  the  way  from  "Beer  Barrel 
Polka"  to  "The  Black  Bottom."  There  are 
a  few  vocal  choruses  by  the  "New"  Rhythm 
Boys.  (Coral) 

You've  probably  heard  several  versions 
of  the  novelty,  "Freddy,"  but  now  you  can 
hear  the  original  record  that  started  the 
whole  thing.  "X"  Label  has  acquired  the 
first  waxing  of  the  tune,  which  was  done 
in  Europe  by  a  girl  named  Annie  Cordy. 
She  sings  the  lyrics  in  German  on  one  side 
and  in  English  on  the  other. 

Something  new  for  hillbilly-music  lovers 
has  been  put  out  by  the  Four-Star  Re- 
cording Company.  It's  titled  "The  Trail- 
ways  Blues"  and  features  vocalist  Bill 
Taylor,  backed  up  by  the  Miller  Brothers 
aggregation.  Pretty  neat. 

Lena  Home,  with  hubby  Lenny  Hay- 
ton's  orchestra,  has  a  terrific  side  in  "It's 
All  Right  with  Me,"  one  of  the  hit  tunes 
from  die  long-running  Broadway  musical, 
"Can  Can."  In  the  show  the  song  is  done 
as  a  ballad,  but  Lena  sings  it  very  fast, 
and  it's  all  right  too.  For  the  coupling  she 
slows  down  on  "It's  Love,"  a  pretty  bal- 
lad from  another  Broadway  hit  of  a  few 
seasons  ago,  "Wonderful  Town."  This  rec- 
ord could  be  a  winner  for  Lena  follow- 
ing closely  after  her  popular  "Love  Me 
or  Leave  Me."   (Victor) 

"Boy  Meets  Girl"  is  a  new  Columbia 
album,  with  a  new  idea  behind  it.  It 
triple-stars  Peggy  King,  Felicia  Sanders 
and  Jerry  Vale,  with  the  threesome  sing- 
ing a  love  story.  The  tale  unravels  through 
the  songs,  beginning  with  "The  Boy  Next 
Door,"  and  ending,  about  ten  numbers 
later,  with — you  guessed  it — a  happy  end- 
ing.  Percy   Faith   conducts   the   orchestra. 

Peggy  Lee  bounces  forth  with  a  new 
novelty  called  "Oh!  No!"  a  musical  para- 
phrase on  the  popular  expression,  backed 
up  with  the  familiar  "Ooh,  That  Kiss," 
and  ooh,  that  arrangement — something 
different,  for  sure.  The  orchestra  plays  it 
in  a  cha-cha-cha  tempo.  (Decca) 

Woody  Herman  and  his  orchestra  have 


recorded  two  songs  from  recent  movies, 
and  the  treatment  of  both  is  rather  un- 
usual for  Woody.  One  tune  is  "You're ' 
Here,  My  Love,"  from  "The  Seven  Little 
Foys,"  and  the  other  is  "The  Girl  Up- 
stairs," from  "The  Seven  Year  Itch,"  the 
melody  which  is  played  every  time  Mari- 
lyn Monroe  comes  on  the  screen,  so  it 
won't  be  hard  to  remember.  Woody  has 
used  interesting  arrangements  on  both 
sides,  featxiring  the  harp  and  a  vocal 
chorus.   (Capitol) 

"Just  Too  Much"  is  a  new  album  by 
the  Hal  Schaefer  Trio,  and  it's  quite  a  bit 
at  that.  Schaefer,  in  his  early  twenties,  is 
the  lad  who  has  been  creating  quite  a 
splash  in  West  Coast  spots  with  his  jazz 
piano  style.  On  this  set,  Hal's  trio  (Alvin 
Stoller  on  drums  and  Joe  Mondragon  on 
bass  fiddle)  play  a  group  of  standards,  and 
two  Schaefer  originals,  "Yes"  and  "Mon- 
tevideo."   (Victor) 

The  banjo,  an  almost- forgotten  instru- 
ment, has  come  back  into  the  spotlight  this 
past  year,  and, now  they've  whipped  up  a 
ttine  about  it  called,  "The  Banjo's  Back  in 
Town,"  and  Teresa  Brewer  belts  across 
in  her  usual  sock  style.  On  the  backing 
Teresa  tells  all  about  "How  To  Be  Very, 
Very  Popular,"  which  is  also  the  title  of 
the  new  20th  Century-Fox  movie,  starring 
Betty  Grable  and  Sheree  North.    (Coral) 

And  that  about  wraps  it  up  for  now, 
as  they  say  on  the  film  sets.  I'll  be  seeing 
you  again  next  month. 


Jane  Froman  renders  a  lilting  version 
of  "Summertime  in  Venice."  (Capitol) 


For  the  Easiest  Permanent 
of  Your  Life  . . . 


:£^ 


►casual 


PIN-CURL 
PERMANENT, 


SET  IT  / 


Set  your  pin-curls  just  as  you  always  do 
_^     No  need  for  anyone  to  help, 


WET  IT/ 


Apply  CASUAL  lotion  just  once. 
15  minutes  later,  rinse  with  clear  water. 


FORGET  IT.' 


That's  all  there  is  to  it  I  CASUAL  is 

self-neutralizing.  There's  no  resetting. 

Your  work  is  finished! 


Naturally  lovely,  carefree  curls 

that  last  for  weeks . . . 

Casual  is  the  word  for  it . . .  soft,  carefree  waves 

and  curls -never  tight  or  kinky— beautifully  manageable, 

perfect  for  the  new  flattering  hair  styles  that  highlight  the  softer, 

natural  look.  Tonight  — give  yourself  the  loveliest  wave 

of  your  life— a  Casual  pin-curl  permanent! 

tak^s  just  15  minutes  more  than  setting  your  hair! 

$1.50   PIUS  TAX 


13 


Ted  Steele  holds  WOR-TVers 
young  and  old  in  the 
palm  of  his  talented  hands 
as  he  daily  delights  them 
on  two  merry  shows 


Ted's  shows  always  "jump."  Here,  he  and  Cozy  Cole  are  on  drums,  with 

Johnny  Chavez,  guitar,  Bobby  Caudano,  accordion,  Tonnmy  Abruzzo,  bass. 


T 
V 
R 

14 


WITH  two  wonderful  TV  shows  of 
their  own,  an  equal  number  of 
daughters — also  wonderful — and  a 
Bucks  County,  Pennsylvania,  farm 
that  can  be  similarly  described,  Ted 
Steele  and  his  wife  and  producer, 
Doris,  are  often  told  they're  lucky. 
To  this,  Ted  and  Doris  smile  at  each 
other  with  affection  and  long-time 
understanding.  Then  Ted  says,  "Yep, 
the  harder  we  work,  the  luckier  we 
get." 

Currently,  it's  Station  WOR-TV 
viewers  who  consider  themselves 
lucky.  Weekday  afternoons,  from  3 
to  5,  there's  the  Ted  Steele  Show,  a 
program  of  music  and  variety  star- 
ring Ted,  Ceil  Loman  and  her  Wo- 
man's Corner,  drummer  Cozy  Cole 
and  sax  man  johnny  Hodges  heading 
up  an  aggregation  called  the  "Oblong 
Squares,"  and  Corky  Robbins,  her 
piano  and  songs.  The  whole  gang  pre- 
sents music,  charades  and  other 
games,  and  discusses  questions  sent  in 
by  viewers — all  making  for  a  spright- 
ly two  hours  of  fun  for  the  whole 
family. 

Following  this,  Ted's  Teen  Band- 
stand stars  the  teenagers  of  the 
Greater  New  York  area.  Every  day, 
a  group  of  30  youngsters  from  a 
school  or  organization  dance  to  the 
music  of  Steve  Schultz  and  his  Dixie- 
landers,  meet  and  talk  to  musical 
stars,  compete  in  contests  and  games. 
Pretty  Jeanne  O'Brien  presides  over 
her  Gossip  Board  of  initialed  mystery 
items  culled  from  3,000  letters  a  week 
and  leads  the  talk  on  teen  fads  and 


Teener  Ann  Marie  Sisko  gets  a  prize  from  Ted  and 
Jeanne  O'Brien  for  giving  the  Bandstand  its  name. 


Partners  in  marriage  and  work,  Ted  the  performer 
and  Doris  the  producer  check  their  show  schedule. 


No   "gentleman   farmer,"   Ted   is  an   expert  on   his 
pure-bred  cattle,  wades  right  into  the  farm  work. 


Doris,  Susan  and  Sally  love  the  pets — 30  cats,  2 
dogs,  outdoor  aviary — that  come  with  farm  life. 


the  most  up-to-date  fashions. 

Ted,  whose  own  daughters — Susan, 
13,  and  Sally,  12 — are  his  off-camera 
leading  lights,  takes  especial  pleasure 
in  giving  the  teenagers  a  show  of  their 
own,  incorporating  their  letters  and 
ideas  and  their  requests  for  tunes  and 
guest  stars.  He  feels  youngsters  can 
use  the  games  and  gimmicks  pre- 
sented on  Bandstand  for  at-home 
parties  and  that  the  program  can 
show  parents  what  kind  of  entertain- 
ment teenagers  enjoy. 

Ted  Steele  is  serious  about  having 
worked  hard.  As  a  Trinity  College 
student,  he  divided  his  time  between 
the  Hartford,  Connecticut,  campus, 
trips  to  Manhattan  for  radio  auditions, 
and  the  theater-night  club  circuit 
around  Hartford  where  he  earned  his 
tuition    and    upkeep.    His    first    big 


break  came  when  Ted  quit  an  an- 
nouncing job  in  Hollywood  to  fly  to 
New  York  and  take  on  a  $65-a-month 
chore  as  a  page  boy. 

His  musical  background  quickly 
made  Ted  a  salesman  for  a  radio 
recording  library.  While  selling,  he 
learned  to  play  the  then-new  Nova- 
chord,  then  organized  the  "Nova- 
tones,"  which  became  a  favorite  disc 
group.  Next  Ted  switched  to  arrang- 
ing and  conducting  scores  for  such 
top  talent  as  Perry  Como,  Connie 
Boswell,  Jo  Stafford  and  Frank 
Sinatra. 

But,  in  1947,  Ted  again  began  front- 
ing his  own  orchestra  at  hotels  and 
night  spots  and  doing  radio  and  TV 
work.  Today,  in  addition  to  his  WOR- 
TV  shows,  he  presents  the  Ted  Steele 
Show  over  the  Mutual  Radio  network, 


Monday  through  Friday  at  1:30  P.M. 

The  Steeles  commute  to  the  New 
York  studios  from  their  Celebrity 
Farm,  100  acres  stocked  with  pure- 
bred Guernseys  and  400  acres  which 
Ted  rents  for  growing  feed  and  other 
crops.  Ted  defers  to  Doris'  profes- 
sional advice,  but  at  home  he's  very 
much  the  head  of  the  house.  "We  are 
really  interdependent,"  Doris  says, 
cherishing  the  closeness  that  comes 
with  being  partners  in  marriage  and 
in  career. 

When  the  Steeles  first  bought  their 
farm,  they  moved  in  with  one  lamp, 
some  borrowed  beds  and  a  framed 
motto:  "You  can  do  anything  you 
want  to  do."  Ted  Steele  has  proved 
the  truth  of  this  motto  to  cheers  and 
applause  from  WOR-TV  viewers  of 
all  ages. 


T 
V 
R 

15 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


16 


7391 


589 — Lovely,  lacy  pineapple  design  forms 
this  unusual  "butterfly"  set  to  pretty  and 
protect  your  chairs.  Easy-to-memorize 
crochet.     Use    as    a    buffet    set,    too.     25^ 

7344 — Doll-making  is  easy  with  these  iron- 
on  faces  in  color.  Pattern  pieces  for  15- 
inch  dolls  and  clothes.  Also  included  are 
iron-on  color  transfers  of  faces  for  two 
dolls    and    motifs    for    pockets.     25^ 


Iron-On  Flowers 


7316 


525 — ^Ideal  for  school,  pretty  for  parties. 
Make  two  versions — one  with  and  one  with- 
out sleeves.  Frost  the  edges  with  eyelet 
trim.  Child's  Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8,  10.  Tissue  pat- 
tern, transfer,  instructions.  State  size,  25^ 

7316 — Easy-sew  apron  takes  one  yard  35- 
inch  fabric.  No  embroidery — iron-on  red 
petunias  with  green  leaves.  Tissue  pattern, 
washable  transfer.  Medium  Size  only.  25^ 

7204 — The  pride  of  every  state — its  own 
lovely  flower — embroidered  on  this  cozy 
quilt.  Diagrams,  transfers  of  embroidery 
motifs  included.  Quilt  72"  x  102",  double- 
bed  size.  Each  square,  7"  x  8".  25^ 

7391 — Crochet  this  cover  for  any  size 
TV  set — in  your  favorite  spider  design. 
TV  cover,  28"  in  No.  30  cotton;  smaller 
in  No.  50;  larger  in  mercerized  bedspread 
cotton.  Join  4  to  make  a  56-inch  cloth.  25^ 

767 — Let  this  little  lady  perch  atop  your 
toaster — keep  it  soil-free.  Her  long,  full 
skirt  is  its  protective  cover.  Pattern  pieces, 
instructions,  transfer  of  embroidery.  Use 
scraps,  stuff  with  foam  rubber.    25^ 


cr^ 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for 
New  York  11,  N.  Y.    Add  five  cents 


each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.    Send  an  additional  25^  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


For  the  sound  of  dreams  come  true  .  .  . 
set  your  dial  each  week  for  PHONORAMA  TIME 
J  the  song-hit  show  for  the  young  at  heart  .  .  . 
starring  the  idol  of  millions 


JOHNISY  DESMOND 


aturdays  at  11:30  EDT 


MUTUAL 


See  local  listings  for  program  time  in  your  area. 


17 


Whafs  New 

in  Colgate  Dental 

Cream  that's 

MISSING- 
MISSING- 

MISSING 

in  every  other 
leading  toothpaste? 


18 


t^i 


Any  toothpaste  can  destroy  decay-  and 
odor-causing  bacteria.  But  new  bac- 
teria return  in  minutes,  forming  acids 
that  cause  decay.  Colgate's,  unlike  any 
other  leading  toothpaste,'  keeps  on 
fighting  decay  12  hours  or  more! 

So,  morning  brushings  with  Colgate's 
help  protect  all  day;  evening  brushings 
all  night.  Gardol  in  Colgate's  forms  an 
invisible,  protective  shield  around  teeth 
that  lasts  1 2  hours  with  just  one  brushing. 
Ask  your  dentist  how  often  to  brush 
your  teeth.  Encourage  your  children 
to  brush  after  meals.  And  at  all  times, 
get  Gardol  protection  in  Colgate's! 


•TMC  lEADINO  TOOTHPA8XE5 
ACCOUNT  f^OB  OVER 
705i  or  ALL  TOOTHPASTES 
80L0  TOOAYI 


No  other  leading  toothpaste 
can  give  the  12 -hour  protection 
against  decay  you  get  with 
Colgate's  with  Gardol 


CLEANS  YOUR  BREATH 
it  GUARDS  YOUR  TEETH 


WHArS   NEW  FROM   COAST  TO  COAST 

{Continued  from  page  11) 


recently  taken  over  the  emcee  role  on 
the  Looney  Tunes  TV  show  over  the 
Du  Mont  Network.  .  .  .  Miss  E.  K.,  Port- 
land, Ore.:  Bing  Crosby  was  originally 
mentioned  for  the  television  production 
of  "Our  Town,"  which  has  been  adapted 
as  a  musical,  but  Frank  Sinatra  is  now 
set  to  do  it  in  September  on  NBC-TV. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  ...  ? 

Cliff  Edwards,  the  singing  comedian 
known  as  Ukulele  Ike?  Cliff's  career 
hasn't  been  zooming  too  much  in  the  past 
few  years,  but  now,  thanks  to  his  re- 
cording of  "When  You  Wish  Upon  a 
Star,"  things  are  looking  up  for  him. 
Cliff  made  the  record  back  in  1949  when 
he  did  the  voice  of  Jiminy  Cricket  in 
Walt  Disney's  film,  "Pinocchio."  Disney 
used  the  record  as  the  theme  song  for  his 
Disneyland  TV  series,  and  now  Cliff  will 
again  work  for  Disney  on  the  forthcom- 
ing Mickey  Mouse  Cluh  daily  TV  kiddie 
show.  He's  also  set  to  record  some  new 
tunes  shortly. 

Kenny  Delmar  (Senator  Claghorn), 
who  resumed  his  radio  career  a  while 
back  in  the  rurming  part  of  Buck  Halli- 
day  in  The  Second  Mrs.  Burton?  Kenny 
has  left  New  York,  and  the  program,  to 
return  to  live  in  Hollywood.  Howard 
Smith,  Broadway  actor  now  appearing  in 
the  stage  show,  "Anniversary  Waltz,"  has 
replaced  Delmar  as  Buck. 

Don  Herbert,  creator  and  star  of  the 
Mr.  Wizard  program,  seen  over  NBC-TV? 
Herbert  was  taken  ill  a  few  weeks  ago 
and  his  condition  was  diagnosed  as  acute 
and  chronic  exhaustion.  He  was  taken  to 
the  Augustana  Hospital  in  Chicago,  where 
he  is  improving.  Pending  Don's  return 
to  work,  kinescope  telecasts  will  be  sub- 
stituted for  his  Saturday  program. 

Molly  Berg,  who  wrote  and  starred  in 
the  heart-warming  adventures  of  The 
Goldbergs?  Molly  is  filming  a  new  series 
of  Goldberg  stories  for  Guild  Films — and 
just  to  keep  up  with  the  trend  throughout 


Kathy  Godfrey  presents  the  bright 
side  of  the  news,  Sundays  on  CBS. 


the  country,  the  family  is  moving  to  the 
suburbs.  The  series  will  probably  start 
sometime  this  fall. 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of 
your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or  won- 
der what  has  happened  to  someone  on 
radio  or  television,  drop  me  a  line — Miss 
Jill  Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  E. 
42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.,  and  I'll 
try  my  best  to  find  out  for  you  and  put 
the  information  in  this  column.  Unfortu^ 
nately,  we  don't  have  space  to  answer  all 
questions,  so  I  try  to  cover  those  person- 
alities and  shows  about  whom  I  receive 
the  most  inquiries.  Sorry,  no  personal 
answers,  so  kindly  do  not  enclose  stamped 
envelopes  or  postage,  as  they  cannot  be 
returned. 


Jack  Benny  and  his  wife  Mary  Livingstone,  on  a  New  York  holiday,  visit  the 
Stork  Club.  Jack's  slated  to  appear  on  a  CBS-TV  "spectacular"  this  fall. 


You  get  floods  more  suds. ..  better  hair-conditloning  too! 


10 


0 


of^- 


NEW 


0/fk^^/^ 


You'll  he  talking  about  lather  for 
days  after  your  first  shampoo  with 
new  White  Rain.  Because  it  really 
does  pile  up  astonishingly  .  .  .  gives 
you  gobs  more  rich,  gentle  suds,  soft 
as  rain  water.  You  can  feel  your  hair 
become  silken  under  your  finger-tips 


.  .  .  Yet  see" what  happens  when  you 
comb  it  out.  The  curl  just  naturally 
springs  back.  New  White  Rain 
leaves  your  hair  in  better  condition, 
sprinkled  with  sunshine,  fresh  as  a 
breeze,  and  manageable.  New  White 
Rain  was  made  especially  for  you . . . 


^  '*'     lOffJU       THE     PEOPLE     WHO     KNOW    YOUR     HAIR     BEST 


T 
V 
R 

19 


Qkw^^^'Vi^ 


ALL.  DAY. 


ALU  OVER 


Wanderful 

Dj'a-nlss 

TALCUM 

It  gives  your  skin 
a  thrilling  satin 
softness ...  an  alluring 
feminine  fragrance. 
This  finest  of  imported 
talcs-  soothes,  cools 
and  perfumes  every    £; 
inch  of  you!  Absorbs  *| 
perspiration— helps  \ 

prevent  chafing  . . . 
keeps  you  delightful 
to  be  near! 


Dreais  «oie  true... 


when  you  wear  BLUE  WALTZ. 
This  intoxicating  perfume  is 
not  for  the  timid. 
Try  it  —  when  you're 

ready  for  love! 


20 


Daytime  Diary 


^luitmmaiivgift^etimail^ 


#3      {aMiJSnwSSS^ 


•MMMMMMMaaiaMMt 


All  programs  are  heard  Monday  through   Friday;   consult 
local  papers  for  time  and  statipn. 


BACKSTAGE  WIFE  Mary  Noble  has 
had  years  of  practice  at  being  the  wife  of 
a  famous  Broadway  star,  but  every  now 
and  then  even  she  faces  a  problem  that  it 
seems  must  wreck  her  marriage.  Although 
she  is  certain  that  Larry  is  fundamentally 
devoted  to  her  and  their  family,  his  bril- 
liant, fascinating  leading  women  can  often 
manage  to  distress  her  far  more  than  she 
likes  to  admit.  Will  Larry's  career  end  by 
coming  between  him  and  Mary?  CBS 
Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  BAY  If  architect  Don 
Harrick  really  works  on  plans  for  the 
Youth  Center,  all'  Reverend  Dennis'  hopes 
for  it  will  be  brilliantly  realized.  But  per- 
sonal difficulties  beset  Harrick  as  he  sees 
his  hold  on  his  sister-in-law,  Lydia, 
weakening  under  the  warmth  of  her 
friendship  with  editor  Max  Canfield.  Will 
Harrick  use  the  one  weapon  that  can 
really  ruin  Lydia's  life  in  order  to  main- 
tain his  influence  over  her?  CBS-TV  and 
CBS   Radio. 

TUE  BOCTOR'S  WIFE  Embittered  by 
the  publicity  that  misrepresents  her  as- 
sociation with  the  children's  convalescent 
home,  Julie  Palmer  vows  to  keep  hands 
off  all  public  activities,  and  withdraws  so 
decidedly  that  her  husband,  Dr.  Dan 
Palmer,  is  really  concerned  over  an  atti- 
tude he  has  never  seen  in  Julie  before. 
But  a  brave  child  reminds  Julie  that  with- 
out courage  life  is  much  less  worth  liv- 
ing. NBC  Radio. 

FIRST  LOVE  The  harrowing  days  of 
Zach's  trial  for  the  murder  of  Petey  are 
bound  to  leave  their  mark  on  Laurie  no 
matter  what  the  verdict.  StruggUng  not  to 
show  the  terrible  strain,  she  wonders  if 
Zach  can  do  the  same — Zach  who  is  so 
much  more  emotional  and  keyed-up  than 
the  average  man.  How  will  he  feel  about 
David  Abbott,  knowing  that  the  clever 
young  lawyer's  fight  to  save  him  was  more 
for  Laurie's  sake  than  for  his?   NBC-TV. 


THE  CL'IDIiVC  LIGHT  Long  after  her 
marriage  to  Dick  was  over,  Kathy  realized 
how  much  she  still  loved  him.  But  even  if 
he  returns  to  California  the  chances  are 
small  that  their  lives  can  ever  join  again, 
for  Dick  is  no  longer  the  confused,  weak 
man  he  was  a  few  years  ago.  Meanwhile, 
Kathy's  friend  Bertha  faces  a  trying  time 
as  her  newly-widowed  mother  comes 
home  with  her.  What  will  this  mean  to 
her  husband  and  her  older  son?  CBS-TV 
and  CBS  Radio. 

HAWKINS  FALLS  Nobody  who  really 
knows  a  small  town — knows  it  as  Lona 
and  Dr.  Floyd  Corey  do — will  ever  make 
the  mistake  of  thinking  that  life  there  is 
as  quiet  and  peaceful  as  it  appears  to  the 
casual  passerby.  But  even  Lona  is  sur- 
prised when  she  suddenly  learns  that  her 
name  has  been  forged — and  finds  out  who 
did  it.  This,  she  thinks,  is  certainly  the 
strangest  thing  that  will  ever  happen  in 
Hawkins  Falls.  But  is  she  wrong?  NBC- 
TV. 

JOYCE  J  ORB  AN,  M.B  The  respected 
position  Joyce  has  built  for  herself,  both 
as  a  woman  and  a  doctor,  is  threatened 
by  the  curious  persecution  of  her  own 
young  sister,  Kitty,  who  seems  determined 
to  destroy  Joyce's  hopes  for  a  future  with 
socially  prominent  lawyer  Mike  Hill.  Has 
Kitty,  through  the  man  called  James  Duf- 
fy, stumbled  upon  a  chain  of  events  that 
may  really  help  her  to  accomplish  her 
purpose?  NBC-TV. 

JUST  PLAIN  BILL  The  beautiful  young 
actress,  Arline  Wilton,  has  created  quite  a 
stir  in  Hartville.  Bill  watches  with  con- 
cern as  Peter  Dyke  Hampton,  the  suc- 
cessful lawyer  who  recently  seemed  at- 
tracted to  Bill's  daughter  Nancy,  finds 
himself  succumbing  to  Arline's  undeniable 
fascination.  What  is  there  about  Arline 
that  leads  Bill  to  fear  that  Peter's  feeling 
for  her  will  eventually  lead  to  trouble? 
NBC  Radio. 


I 


>KE.VZO  JO.VES  When  Belle  Jones' 
long  search  for  Lorenzo  was  successful, 
she  was  so  elated  that  she  had  small  doubt 
that  the  future  would  see  complete  happi- 
ness restored  with  the  recovery  of  Loren- 
zo's memory,  so  that  they  could  resume 
the  contented  marriage  that  was  disrupted 
by  his  accident.  But  now,  months  later,  she 
faces  heartbreak  as  Lorenzo  still  cannot 
recall  the  past.  Will  she  be  forced,  to  turn 
to  Denis  Scott  and  his  love  to  salvage  her 
own  future?   NBC  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Van's  recovery  from-her 
miscarriage,  and  Paul's  final  courageous 
honesty  with  his  former  wife,  Judith,  has 
to  some  extent  drawn  Judith's  fangs  and 
cleared  the  way  for  a  better  future  for 
his  marriage  to  Van.  But  there  still  re- 
mains Judith's  child— the  child  so  deeply 
damaged  by  Judith's  callousness.  If  Van 
follows  the  fugitive  thought  that  has 
crossed  her  mind,  will  it  be  the  greatest 
mistake  of  her  life?   CBS-TV. 

Jli.4  PEKKf.VS  Gladys  was  the  spoiled 
child  of  a  wealthy  family,  and  Joe  was  the 
modest,  unforceful  adopted  son  of  Ma 
Perkins,  when  the  two  fell  in  love  and 
were  married.  But,  despite  the  difference 
in  background,  they  were  extremely  hap- 
py until  the  tragic  disappearance  of  their 
baby  put  torturing  strain  on  both  of  them. 
Will  bitterness  transform  Gladys  back  into 
the  cold,  superficial  girl  she  once  ap- 
peared to  be?  Can  Ma  save  their  mar- 
riage?   CBS    Radio. 

Of «  GAL  SIX  DAY  Leslie  Northurst's 
attempt  to  destroy  Lord  Henry's  hold  on 
the  Brinthrope  title  and  estates  brought 
ruin  only  to  Leslie  himself.  And  yet  Sun- 
day wonders  if  she  and  her  husband  can 
ever  really  forget  Leslie's  attack.  Is  she 
right  in  fearing  that  it  created  havoc  in 
her  marriage  that  can  never  be  com- 
pletely repaired?  Or  is  there  a  crisis 
ahead  that  will  relegate  all  thoughts  of 
Leslie  to  the  background?  CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  VOf  .VC'S  FAMILY  No  mat- 
ter how  much  two  young  people  love  each 
other,  they  cannot  be  separated  for  any 
length  of  time  without  becoming  lonely 
enough  to  seek  companionship  elsewhere. 
Carter's  long,  harrowing  disappearance  has 
thrown  Peggy  back  on  the  friendship  of 
two  very  willing  young  men.  And,  in  New 
York,  Carter  embarks  on  a  strange  new 
life  with  the  help  of  a  friendly  young 
singer  and  his  own  talent  for  playing  the 
piano.  NBC  Radio. 

PERRY  3tASO\  The  careful,  compli- 
cated plan  to  get  hold  of  Sam  Merri- 
weather's  wealth  approaches  success  as 
the  girl  posing  as  his  daughter  tightens 
the  trap  around  his  real  daughter,  known 
to  him  as  his  secretary,  Lois  Monahan. 
Can  Perry  xmearth  the  confused  frame- 
work of  the  truth  in  time  to  save  Sam — 
and  save  Lois  from  a  framed  murder 
charge?  Or,  working  in  the  dark  as  he 
must,  will  it  be  only  Lois  he  can  save? 
CBS  Radio. 

THE    RIGHT    TO    HAPPINESS    The 

accident  in  which  Carolyn  is  injured  helps 
to  bring  to  a  sort  of  climax  the  strained 
situation  between  her  and  her  husband. 
Miles  Nelson.  Does  Miles'  political  career 
really  suffer  from  his  marriage,  as  wily 
Annette  Thorpe  has  tried  to  convince  him? 
More  important,  has  Miles  himself  begim 
to  suspect  that  he  could  go  faster  and 
farther  alone — or  with  Annette  as  a  part- 
ner? NBC  Radio.   (Continued  on  page  97) 


mmdenform  ora 

As  a  matter  of  course,  you'll  choose  Ariette*,  the  new  Maidenform  elastic  bra 
that  sets  you  hee  I  Airy-light  elastic  outlining  the  broadcloth 
curve-flattering  cups  to  snug  the  bra  to  you;  elastic  under  the  cups 
to  move  with  every  breath  you  take,-  elastic  back-panels  'I 

to  give  you  more  freedom  of  motion  than  you  ever  dreamed  of  in  a  bra. 
Ariette  g-i-v-e-s  with  your  every  move — 
follows  your  figure  like  a  dream  !  2.50  A,  B  and  C  cups. 


•  REG.   U.  S.   PAT.  OFF. 


I  BRASSIERE  CO.,  N.  Y.  16       SK 


r  BY    PREMIER 


JEWELRY  BY  STEINEN 


21 


\.  'lit 


22 


n 


coolest 
thing  you 
can  wear 

There  isn't  any  other  kind  of  sanitary  pro- 
tection that's  nearly  as  cool  as  Tampax*. 
In  fact,  millions  of  women  first  adopted 
Tampax  in  the  Summertime — when  they 
simply  couldn't  stand  hot,  uncomfort- 
able external  pads  a  minute  longer! 

Why  put  up  with  chafing  .  .  .  irrita- 
tion . . .  odor  problems  and  disposal  prob- 
lems .  .  .  when  Tampax  is  as 
handy  as  your  nearest  drug  or 
notion  counter?  It  gives  the 
wearer  such  a  remarkable  sense 
of  freedom  that  many  users  say 
they  almost  forget  it's  "time-of-the- 
month"  for  them.  Certainly,  you  feel 
much  more  poised,  much  more  relaxed, 
with  protection  that's  both  invisible  and 
unfelt  when  in  place.  You  can  be  your 
dainty,  fastidious  self  at  all  times! 

It  goes  without  saying  that  you  can 
swim  while  wearing  Tampax,  that  you 
don't  need  to  remove  it  while  taking 
your  shower  or  tub.  This  doctor-invented 
product  must  be  the  nicest  way  of  han- 
dling the  trying  days  of  the  month  — 
so  many  women  say  so!  Buy  Tampax 
now  in  your  choice  of  3  absorbencies: 
Regular,  Super,  Junior.  Month's  supply 
goes  into  purse.  Tampax  Incorporated, 
Palmer,  Mass. 

•Reg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off. 


■ 


Invented  by  a  doctor — 
"kow  used  by  millions  of  women 


information 


The  Winner! 

You  are  right,  when  you  state  your 
reason  for  printing  the  Feather  Your  Nest 
contest  winners'  names  first,  before  notify- 
ing them  .  .  .  it  was  a  greater  thrill.  I  gaze 
and  stare  at  my  name  .  .  .  and  say,  "It 
can't  be!"  But,  thar  tiz!  To  think  of  my 
name  being  all  over  the  U.  S.  A.  makes 
me  feel  like  a  celebrity  .  .  .  which  of 
course  I  am,  in  a  way,  because  the  judges 
picked  my  "whacky"  entry  for  first  prize. 

I  can  hardly  wait  to  get  my  living  room 
set  .  .  .  and  am  so  afraid  it  might  arrive 
when  I'm  out.  Also,  I  wish  to  clear  the 
room  of  old  pieces,  before  the  beautiful 
new  ones  "swagger"  in  and  scoff  at  my 
poor  "antee-ques."  The  old  ones  were  very 
faithful,  though  battle-scarred,  and  might 
feel  sensitive  if  they  glimpsed  the  new- 
comers. 

Lots  of  good  wishes  to  you  and  your 
fine,  enjoyable  magazine.  I  surely  did 
enjoy  the  contest,  but  never  expected  to 
win  a  prize,  let  alone  the  top  one.  Every- 
one is  complimenting  my  family  on  my 
big  win.  My  son,  who  is  in  the  Army,  can 
scarcely  wait  to  see  our  lovely  living 
room.  Its  being  modern  tickles  him  so 
much,  as  it  does  all  of  us. 

I  wonder  if  being  a  "Bird"  had  anything 
to  do  with  winning  this  Feather  Your 
Nest  prize?  Anyway,  we  think  it  is  quite 
a  coincidence. 

Bertha  L.  Bird, 
Needham  Heights,  Mass. 

Out  of  His  Teens 

/  would  like  to  know  about  James 
Lydon,  who  plays  Andy  Boone  on  NBC- 
TV's  So  This  Is  Hollywood.  Where  can 
I  write  to  him?  C.R.,  Chicago,  III. 

"For  eighteen  years  I've  played  a  high 
school  teenager,  and  that's  long  enough 
for  any  man,"  asserts  Jimmy  Lydon,  who's 
happy  to  have  graduated  to  the  role  of 
actors'  agent  in  So  This  Is  Hollywood.  .  .  . 


James  Lydon 


Rin  Tin  Tin  IV 


Born  James  Joseph  Lydon  on  May  30, 
1923,  in  Harrington  Park,  New  Jersey,  his 
long-lived  teen-age  career  began  when  he 
was  studying  photography  at  the  Profes- 
sional Children's  School  in  New  York 
City.  Jimmy's  father  was  a  railroad  statis- 
tician and  several  of  his  nine  children 
became  interested  in  acting.  Jimmy's  start 
came  when  his  freckles  attracted  atten- 
tion among  commercial  photographers 
and  he  moved  to  the  other  side  of  the 
camera  to  become  a  model.  He  appeared  in 
several  Broadway  plays,  then  went  to 
Hollywood  to  play  juvenile  roles  in  "Tom 
Brown's  Schooldays,"  "Life  with  Father" 
and  to  star  in  the  "Henry  Aldrich"  series. 
Other  films  have  included  "Joan  of  Arc," 
"Time  of  Your  Life,"  "September  Affair" 
and  "The  Magnificent  Yankee."  .  .  . 
Jimmy  has  appeared  in  TV  dramatic  and 
suspense  programs  and  played  the  lead 
in  one  of  the  first  TV  daytime  serials.  The 
First  Hundred  Years.  It  was  while  in 
New  York  for  TV  appearances  that  he 
once  again  met  Betty  Lou  Nedell.  They'd 
known  each  other  before — when  Betty's 
mother  played  Jimmy's  mother  in  "Henry 
Aldrich" — were  married  in  New  York  and 
now  have  a  year-old  daughter,  Cathy  Ann. 
Jimmy  holds  a  private  pilot's  license,  likes 
to  take  weekend  air-trips  or  else  shoulder 
one  of  the  guns  he  collects  and  round  up 
his  best  pals  for  a  hunting  trip.  You  can 
write  to  him,  c/o  So  This  Is  Hollywood, 
NBC-TV,  Sunset  and  Vine,  Hollywood, 
Calif. 


Arf!  Arf! 


Would  you  please  give  me  some  in- 
formation on  the  dog  who  plays  the  title 
role  in  The  Adventures  Of  Rin  Tin  Tin 
on  the  ABC-TV  network? 

D.W.,  Colliers,  W.  Va. 

The  dog  starring  in  the  TV  film  series 
is  actually  Rin  Tin  Tin  IV,  whose  great- 
grandfather barked  silently  and  drew 
millions  of  dollars  to  the  hox  offices  in 
pre-talkie   days.    The    story    begins   when 


booth 


Lee  Duncan  was  a  pilot  in  World  War  I. 
He  recalls  that  "when  the  Germans  were 
driven  back  in  the  big  push  at  St.  Mihiel. 
they  left  a  lot  of  things  behind — including 
five  little  puppies.  I  took  them  over  and 
nursed  them  back  to  health.  They  couldn't 
have  been  over  three  days  old."  .  .  .  Lee 
brought  two  of  the  dogs  back  to  the 
United  States  with  him,  a  male  he  named 
Rin  Tin  Tin  and  a  female  he  called 
Nanette.  The  male  was  named  for  the  little 
good-luck  dolls  the  French  women  made 
and  sold  for  charity. .  . .  \^  hen  Lee's  friend, 
William  Desmond,  needed  a  dog  for  a 
movie  at  Universal,  he  suggested  using 
Rin  Tin  Tin.  "That  gave  me  an  idea  of 
making  a  picture  with  Rin  Tin  Tin."  Lee 
remembers.  'T  went  to  Warner  Brothers 
and  they  liked  the  idea.  But.  by  the  time 
we  spent  $35,000.  they  ran  out  of  money. 
I  managed  to  borrow  some  more.  The 
picture — 'Where  the  North  Begins.'  in 
1923— cost  S135.000  and  grossed  S352.000. 
Rin  Tin  Tin  saved  Warner  Brothers  from 
bankruptcy." 

During  the  war,  Lee  Duncan  trained 
dogs  for  the  Army.  In  1947.  he  brought 
out  "The  Return  of  Rin  Tin  Tin,"  star- 
ring Rin  Tin  Tin  IIL  Now.  the  fourth  in 
the  line,  at  four  years  old,  is  a  TV  star 
and  Rin  Tin  Tin  V,  about  a  year  old.  looks 
like  a  comer. 

Amos  'n'  Andy 

/  would  like  to  know  if  Freeman  Gosden 
and  Charles  Correll  appear  as  Amos  'n 
Andy  on  TV  as  tcell  as  radio. 

1.5.,  Grafton,  W.   Va. 

No.  although  Freeman  Gosden  and 
Charles  Correll  have  played  the  roles  on 
radio  since  1928,  on  TV  Amos  is  played  by 
Alvin  Childress,  Andy  by  Spencer  Wil- 
liams, the  Kingfish  by  Tom  Moore.  On 
radio  Gosden  is  the  Kingfish  and  Light- 
nin',  as  well  as  being  Amos  Jones,  and 
Correll  is  the  voice  for  Henry  Van  Porter 
and  Andy  Brown. 

Man   From   Marseilles 

Would  you  give  me  some  information 
on  Louis  Jourdan,  who  plays  Inspector 
Beaumont  on  Paris  Precinct  on  TV? 

B.R.,  Memphis,  Tenn. 

Born  in  Marseilles,  Louis  Jourdan  was 
a  prominent  actor  on  the  French  stage 
and  screen  when  he  was  brought  to  this 
countrv-  for  a  role  in  Alfred  Hitchcock's 
"The  Paradine  Case,"  in  1947.  His  dark 
good-looks  and  Gallic  charm  have  since 
been  seen  on  celluloid  in  "Letter  from  an 
Unknown  Woman."  "Madame  Bovary," 
"Anne  of  the  Indies"  and  "The  Happy 
Time."  Last  year,  he  made  a  successful 
debut  on  the  Broadway  stage  in  "The 
Immoralist,"  an  adaptation  from  the  book 
by  his  countryman,  Andre  Gide.  On  TV, 
he  has  been  seen  on  many  of  the  top 
drama  programs,  including  The  Elgin 
Hour  and  Appointment  With  Adventure, 
in  addition  to  his  role  as  a  member  of  the 


French  Surete  in  the  Paris  Precinct  series. 
He  may  return  to  Broadway  for  another 
play  this  fall. 

Aloha 

/  would  like  to  know  what  has  happened 
to  Haleloke,  the  Hawaiian  singer  who  used 
to  be  on  Arthur  Godfrey's  shows. 

L.F.,  Massillon,  0. 

Haleloke  has  remained  in  New  York, 
spreading  good  will  with  Orchids  of 
Hawaii,  Inc.,  an  organization  that  provides 
information  about  the  islands  and  ar- 
ranges Hawaiian-style  parties.  Several 
show-business  offers  are  pending,  but 
Haleloke  has  not  yet  made  any  definite 
commitments,  at  this  wTiting. 

Lone  Wolf 

Could  you  tell  me  something  about  Louis 
Hayward,  who  plays  the  title  role  in  The 
Lone  Wolf  on  TV? 

L.  C,  Milwaukee,   Wis. 

Born  in  Johannesburg.  South  Africa's 
diamond  and  gold  capital,  Louis  Hayward 
struck  it  rich  in  acting  almost  immedi- 
ately. After  schooling  in  France  and 
England  and  a  stock  company  debut, 
Louis,  at  22.  owned  his  own  stock  com- 
pany and  earned  as  much  as  S500  a  week. 
But  acting  was  his  first  love  and  he  chucked 
the  company  to  act  on  the  London  stage. 
His  first  part,  in  the  great  hit,  "Beau 
Geste."  led  to  other  successes.  .  .  .  Finally, 
the  American  craze  for  British  accents 
brought  him  to  New  York  for  a  Lunt  and 
Fontanne  play  and  the  New  York  Critics' 
Circle  Award  of  1935.  This,  in  turn,  took 
Louis  to  Hollywood  and  a  series  of  swash- 
buckling roles  in  "Anthony  Adverse." 
"The  Man  in  the  Iron  Mask,"  "Son  of 
Monte  Cristo."  and  so  on.  Other  films  in- 
cluded the  "Saint"  mystery  series.  "My 
Son.  My  Son."  "Ladies  in  Retirement" 
(in    which    he    (Continued   on   page   26) 


Louis  Hayward 


SURVEY  SHOWS  ANSWERS  FROM 


NUKOtb  suggest 

DOUCHING  .« 
ZONITE/or 

feminine  hygiene 

Brides-to-Be  and  Married  Women 
Should  Know  These  Intimate  Facts 

Every  well-informed  woman  who 
values  her  health,  physical  charm 
and  married  happiness,  knows  how 
necessary  a  cleansing,  deodorizing 
douche  is  for  intimate  feminine  clean- 
liness and  after  monthly  periods. 
Douching  has  become  such  an  es- 
sential practice  in  the  modern  way  of 
life,  another  survey  showed  that  of 
the  married  women  asked — 83.3% 
douche  after  monthly  periods  and 
86.5%  at  other  times. 

It's  a  great  assurance  for  women  to 
know  that  zonite  is  so  highly  thought 
of  among  these  nurses.  Scientific  tests 
PROVED  no  other  type  liquid  anti- 
septic-germicide for  the  douche  of  all 
those  tested  is  so  po^YERFULLY  ef- 
fective yet  so  SAFE  to  body  tissues. 

ZONITE's  Many  Advantages 

ZONITE  is  a  powerful  antiseptic- 
germicide  yet  is  positively  non-poi- 
sonous, non-irritating.  You  can  use 
it  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A  zonite 
douche  immediately  washes  away 
germs  and  waste  deposits. 
It  effectively  deodorizes  and 
leaves  you  with  a  wonderful 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence— so  refreshed  and 
dainty.  Inexpensive — zonite 
costs  only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 


If  any  abnormal  condi- 
tion exists,  see  your  doctor. 


23 


Hum 

and 

Strum 


Thirty  years  as  o  team  have  found  Hum 
and  Strum  entertaining  throughout  the 
world.  Below,  on  their  show,  they  enjoy  a 
visit  from   great  trouper,   Joe    E.    Brown. 


24 


matter  how  busy,  Hum  and  Strum  answer  every  letter  they  receive. 


Max  Zides  and  Tom  Currier  daily  show  Providence 
viewers  the  true  meaning  of  "The  Personal  Touch" 


AMONG  the  great  show-business  teams,  there  has  been 
none  more  loved  than  the  musical  team  of  Max  Zides  and 
Tom  Currier — better  known  to  the  world  as  Hum  and  Strum. 
Currently,  they  are  regaling  WJAR-TV  viewers  in  Rhode  Island 
and  Massachusetts  on  their  own  daily  show  at  1:30  P.M.,  as 
guests  on  Breakfast  At  The  Sheraton,  Wednesdays  at  9  A.M., 
as  regulars  on  Weekend  In  New  England,  Fridays  at  10:45  P.M. 

The  story  of  Max  and  Tom's  great  friendship  began  thirty -five 
years  ago  when  they  were  track-team  mates  at  Boston's 
Commercial  High  School.  Several  years  later,  in  1924 — when 
Max  was  working  on  the  Boston  Globe  and  Tom  was  a  long- 
distance truck  driver — they  met  in  a  music  office  and  started 
fooling  around  with  a  song  or  two.  Soon  they  were  filling 
vaudeville  engagements  together,  then  they  went  on  radio.  In 
addition  to  their  air  shows,  they  played  the  great  Keith  circuit, 
appearing  in  every  major  vaudeville  house  in  the  country  with 
such  headliners  as  Burns  and  Allen,  Guy  Lombardo  and  Phil 
Silvers.  In  1931,  when  television  was  almost  unheard  of,  Max 
and  Tom  made  experimental  telecasts,  although,  they  say  now, 
"Our  thoughts  were  that  television  would  never  come  in  our 
lifetime.  We  believed  it  was  a  dream  for  future  centuries." 
Nevertheless,  after  World  War  II,  they  became  TV  regulars. 

In  their  original  act,  both  boys  strummed  the  ukulele  and 
hummed  many  of  their  numbers — hence  the  name  of  their  act. 
Today,  Max  no  longer  plays  the  uke  because  of  a  case  of 
"occupational  arthritis"  which  occurs  only  when  he  plays.  Tom 
provides  the  musical  accompaniment  on  "half  a  piano." 

As  in  their  partnership.  Max  and  Tom  are  the  best  of  friends  in 
private  life.  Max  married  his  childhood  sweetheart  and  they 
now  live  in  Brookline  with  their  sons — Alan,  15  and  Danny,  11. 
Tom,  who  lives  in  near-by  Braintree  with  his  wife,  also  has 
two  sons — Tom,  Jr.,  23,  and  Terry,  20.  While  Max  likes  to  relax 
at  golf,  Tom  prefers  flying,  and  was  once  a  stunt  pilot. 

There  is  a  third  dimension  to  Hum  and  Strum's  friendship — 
with  their  audiences.  As  Tom  aptly  puts  it,  "When  you  stop 
appealing  to  them,  you  might  as  well  fold  your  tent  and  silently 
steal  away."  The  boys'  great  personal  touch  also  results  from 
their  attitude  toward  their  work.  "You  can't  call  this  work," 
says  Max.  "That's  right,"  adds  Tom.  "We  like  this  much  better 
than  working."  From  all  reports,  WJAR-TViewers  share  the 
same  happy  view  about  Hum  and  Strum. 


^BP^ 


Now,  a  new  gentleness  .  .  .  undreamed-of  comfort  .  .  .  the  luxury  of 
a  fabric  covering  that's  soft  as  a  whisper.  Today,  more  than  ever,  it's 


Modess  . . .  .y^ec^:Zcc,s^^^^ 


26 


Now.. .compliment-catching  hair  for  you! 

Today  you  can  look  as  young  as  you  feel,  because  modern  beauty  aids 
make  it  so  easy  for  you  to  keep  an  attractive  and  youthful  appearance. 
But,  in  the  same  way  regular  skin  care  is  necessary  to  conceal  age- 
revealing  wrinkles,  your  hair  also  needs  regular  care  to  keep 

it  gleaming  and  full  of  color  and  life.  

Quite  simply.. .hair  should  be  pampered 

just  as  much  as  the  face  beneath! 

Follow  your  next  shampoo  with  ^ 

a  NOREEN  temporary  rinse,  for 

it  will  bring  back  lustre  and 

color  to  your  hair . . .  leave  it 

soft  and  gleaming  .. . 

young  again.  Choose  your        i 

shade  of  NOREEN  from  ^ 

fourteen  natural 


hair  tones. 

M  cosmetic  counters 

everywhere. 

8  rinses  60^  plus  tax. 

Color  applicator  40^. 

Also  professionally 

applied  in 

beauty  salons. 


;  **%  "^^  . 


-/l^Vec/^ 


® 


COLOR 

HAIR 
RINSE 


Information  Booth 

{Continued) 


co-starred  with  his  former  wife,  Ida 
Lupino),  "Walic  a  Crooked  Mile,"  "Duffy 
of  San  Quentin"  and  many  others.  .  .  . 
Louis  became  an  American  citizen  on 
December  6,  1941,  spent  the  war  years 
with  the  Marines,  rising  to  the  rank  of 
captain  and  earning  the  Bronze  Star  and 
Presidenaal  Citation.  Since  the  war,  he 
has  operated  his  own  Associated  Film 
Artists  production  organization.  In  film 
circles,  it's  said  he  rides  with  Lady  Luck. 
Acting  or  producing,  his  every  picture 
has  been  a  money-maker.  .  .  .  Off-camera, 
Louis'  friends  are  few,  but  close  ones. 
His  favorite  diversion  is  a  sudden,  un- 
planned dash  to  an  out-of-the-way  place. 
He's  enthusiastic  about  the  opera,  theater 
and  concerts,  likes  ice-hockey,  rugby  and 
fencing,  and  keeps  in  trim  with  daily 
workouts  in  his  own  gym.  , 

Quartet  Query  \ 

Could  you  tell  me  whether  two  of  the 
men  in  the  Foggy  River  Boys  quartet  are 
brothers?  The  quartet  sings  on  Red 
Foley's   Ozark    Jubilee. 

G.M.,  Herndon,   Va. 

Yes,  the  brothers  in  the  quartet  are 
William  and  Monte  Matthews.  The  two 
other  Foggy  River  Boys  are  Charles 
Hutton  and  James  Holmes. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested  in  joining, 
write  to  the  address  given — not  to  TV 
Radio  Mirror. 

Jayne  and  Audrey  Meadows  Fan  Club, 
c/o  Sally  Powers,  2  North  Broadway, 
White  Plains,  N.Y. 

Rosemary  Clooney  Fan  Club,  c/o 
Shirley  McElroy,  218  N.  Gray  St.,  Zanes- 
ville,   0. 

Phonorama  Club  (Johnny  Desmond), 
c/o  Arleen  Ristav,  588  Majestic  Circle, 
Arondale  Estates,  Ga. 

Lucille  Wall  Fan  Club,  c/o  Billy  Banks, 
5303  Wriley  Rd.,  Westhaven,  Md. 

On-  And  OfF-Camera 

Would  you  tell  me  if  Marge  and  Stu 
Bergman,  in  the  CBS-TV  dramatic  serial, 
Search  For  Tomorrow,  are  man  and  wife 
in  real  life?         A.  McD.,  Peabody,  Mass. 

No.  Melba  Rae,  who  plays  Marge,  is 
unmarried.  Larry  Haines,  her  TV  husband 
Stu,  has  a  wife  named  Trudy  in  private  life. 


FOR     YOUR    INFORMATION— If 

there's  something  you  want  to  know 
about  radio  and  television,  write  to 
Information  Booth,  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
205  East  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
We'll  answer,  if  we  can,  provided  your 
question  is  of  general  interest.  Answers 
will  appear  in  this  column — but  be 
sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your  letter, 
and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


IF  YOU  NEED 


HHMI 


■■Rib-W»OYe' 
Junior  with 
convertible 
neckline. 


*■ 


Wrinkle* 
reiisloflt 
suiting  with  fl  I 
luxury  look. 


Khinestont    '^ 
_g^  studded, 

^,     \         sporkcdwith 

white. 


\ 


J^ 


/ 


FASHION  FROCKS  INC. 

0«pt.  T-3053  •  Cincinnati  25,  Ohio 

In  Canada,  North  American  FasKJon 

Frocks,  ltd. 

2163  Partltenais,  Dapt.  T-3053 

Montrtal,  P.Q. 


HERE 


FOR  YOU! 

Make  all  the  extra  money 
you  want  in  spare  time. 
Take  orders  for  beautiful 
Fashion  Frocks— low  as 
$3.98  each.  Over  100  dif- 
ferent styles,  colors,  fabrics. 
We  furnish  fabric  samples. 
You  risk  nothing.  Absolutely 
no  experience  needed.  Try 
it— mail  coupon  below. 


at  last! 


ITS   LIQUID 


A  LIQUID  SHAMPOO 

that's  EXT R^%  KICH  • 


Something  wonderful  has 
happened  —  it's  fabulous  new 
Liquid  Prell!  The  only  shampoo 
in  the  world  with  this  exciting, 
extra-rich  formula!  It  bursts 
instantly  into  luxurious  lather .  .  . 
rinses  like  lightning  ...  is 
so  mild  you  could  shampoo 
every  day.  And,  oh,  the  look 
and  feel  of  your  hair  after 
just  one  shampoo!  So  satin-y 
soft,  so  shiny  bright, 
so  obedient— why,  it  falls  into 
place  with  just  a  flick  of  your 
comb!  Shouldn't  your  hair  have 
that  'Radiantly  Alive'  look? 
Try  Liquid  Prell  this  very  night! 


JUST  POUR  IT... 

and  you'll  see  the  glorious  difference! 


Some  liquid  shampoos  are 

too  thin  and  watery  .  .  . 

some  too  heavy,  and  contain  an 

ingredient  tliat  leaves  a  dulling  film. 

But  Prell  has  a  "just-right" 

consistency  — it  won't  run  and 

never  leaves  a  dulling  film. 


T->i 


■•REL.L— for  'Radiantly  Alive'  Hair 
now  available  2  ways: 

The  exciting,  new  extra-rich  liquid 
in  the  handsome,  easy-grip  bottle! 

And  the  famous,  handy  tube 
that's  ideal  for  children  and 
the  whole  family  .  .  .  won't  spill, 
drip,  or  break.  It's 
concentrated  —  ounce  for 
ounce  it  goes  further  I 


CREATED   BY  I 


a  VERY  GOOD  NEIGHBOR 


Heavy  TV  schedules  lighten,  as  Dennis  relaxes  contentedly   with   his  wife   Micki  at  their  Echo   Bay  home. 


Dennis  James  has  always 
known  the  best  way  to  have 
a  friend  is  to  be  one! 
By   ERNST   JACOBI 


DURING  THE  DIM,  distant  days  of  television's  infancy,  about 
eight  years  ago,  a  young  man  by  the  name  of  Dennis 
Janies  was  once  asked  to  do  an  extended  commercial 
for  Josiah  Wedgwood  dinnerware.  After  some  introductory 
remarks,  he  was  to  narrate  a  film  describing  the 
Wedgwood  factories  in  England,  and  the  film  was  to  start 
at  his  mention  of  the  word  "mud" — which  is  used  as  a 
first  step  in  the  manufacturing  process.    However,  at  this 
precise  moment,  something  went  wrong  with  the  film 
and  Dennis  was  given  the  signal  to  "stretch." 

"I  had  to  keep  stalling  for  four  and  a  half  minutes," 
Dennis  i-eports.    "That  wouldn't  have  been  so  bad,  but  I 


See  Next  Page 


29 


a  VERY  GOOD  NEIGHBOR 


(Continued) 


Telethons  to  combat  cerebral  palsy  take  up  much  of 
Dennis  James'  limited  time — and  his  unlimited  heart. 
Nothing  is  quite  so  rewarding  as  the  opportunity  to 
help  such  courageous  youngsters  as  Charles  Stahlberg, 
a   "poster  boy"  for  United   Cerebral    Palsy  appeals. 


As  emcee  of  CBS-TV's  On  Your  Account,  Dennis  put  on 
G  special  program  during  Hospital  Week  and  was  made 
on  honorary  member  of  the  Caledonia  Hospital  Society. 
Joyce  Parkhurst,  student  nurse,  and  Patricia  Burns, 
nurse,   presented  him  with   certificate  of  membership. 


Boating — from  his  own  pier — is  one  of  his  greatest  hobbies. 


couldn't  get  away  from  the  subject  of  mud,  and  there's 
a  limit  to  what  you  can  say  about  it.  I  talked  about 
mud  packs,  mud  baths,  mud  pies,  plain  mud,  ordinary 
mud,  special  mud,  useful  mud,  and  nq-good  dirty 
mud.  I  even  tried  a  rhyme  and  came  up  with  'Maybe 
you  think  I'm  chewing  my  cud — while  all  I'm  doing  is 
talking  about  mud.'  Those  were  the  longest  four  and 
a  half  minutes  I  ever  lived  through  in  my  life." 

Dennis'  ability  not  to  let  circumstances  faze  him  has 
made  him  the  delightof  sponsors,  network  executives, 
and — ^most  important  of  all — a  large  and  devoted 
viewing  audience.  Not  long  ago,  when  he  was  inter- 
viewing a  very  hervous  singer  on  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime, 
the  scenery  on  the  stage  collapsed  with  a  loud  crash 
— though,  fortunately,  out  of  camera  range.    "Do  you 
hear  how  they're  knocking  themselves  out  for  you?" 
Dennis  asked.  "Now,  I  want  you  to  go  out  and  knock 
them  dead  in  turn."  Reassured,  the  girl  went  on  and 
was  great.  And  when  an  elderly  gentleman  on  Dennis' 
CBS-TV  daytime  show.  On  Your  Account,  had  a  fit 
of  sneezes  and  lost  his  upper  dentures,  Dennis  tactfully 
saved  what  might  have  been  an  embarrassing  situation 
by  his  hearty  "Gesundheit!"  Then  he  added  another 
little  rhyme:   "A  sneeze,  whenever  it  occurs,  is 
welcome  as  a  kitten's  purrs."   By  that  time,  both 
dentures  and  calm  were  restored. 

Dennis  says  that  it's  come  to  the  point  where  he  looks 
forward  to  the  unexpected.  "It's  sort  of  a  challenge 
that  helps  me  prove  to  myself  that  I  can  still 
think  on  my  feet." 

It  has  not  been  recorded  in  the  annals  of  television 
or  radio  that  this  ability  has  ever  failed  Dennis  or 
that  he's  ever  been  at  a  loss  for  words.   He  shuns 
prepared  scripts  wherever  possible,  scorns  tele- 
prompters  or  cue  cards,  and  doesn't  use  writers  for  his 
material,  relying  entirely  on  his  quick-wittedness, 
his  spontaneous  sense  of  humor,  his  sincerity  and 
warmth.    "I'm  no  comedian.   When  I'm  before  a 
camera,  I  just  try  to  be  myself,"  he  says.  "And  I'm 
satisfied  if  I  can  come  across  with  a  degree  of  warmth 
and  humanity."  That  he  succeeds  {Continued  on  page  69) 

Dennis  James  emcees  On  Your  Account,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:30  P.M. 
EDT,  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Tide  and  Prell — and  Chance 
Of  A  Lifetime,  ABC-TV,  Sun.,  9  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  Tweed  and 
other  Lentheric  fragrances,  and  Bromo-Seltzer  (Emerson  Drug.  Co.) 


30 


mmm^^ 


'.afeTn* 


Micki's  learned  to  love  water  sports,  too,  and  they  often  launch  a  boot  just  to  go  calling  on  their  neighbors.  Their  swimming 
pool  is  another  of  their  delights.  They  like  informal  picnics — end  friendly  get-togethers  in  Dennis'  well-filled  "trophy  room." 


Dennis  enjoys  cooking  on  the  outdoor  barbecue — particularly  the  Italian  specialties  so  dear  to  his  childhood.   Below,  right,  he 
proudly  introduces  his  parents,  Teresa  and  Demetrlo  Sposo,  and  his  brother  Lou — who  directs  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime,  over  ABC-TV. 


vtinso^ie: 

ANNIE   OAKLEir 


Gail  can  really  ride!  She  can  also 
handle  Annie's  favorite  Winchester — 
OS  Gene  Autry  (foreground)  and  channp 
John  J.  Crowley  (left)  can  well  testify. 


Riding  on  location,  dancing  on  a 
date,  Gail  Davis  shows  how  a  smart 
girl  can  always  aim  for  glamour 

By  PEER  J.  OPPENHEIMER 


To  THE  OLDER  FOLKS,  the  middle-aged 
group  and  the  "young-married"  couples, 
Gail  Davis  was  just  about   the  most 
glamorous  girl  at  the  Grand  Ball — the 
highlight  of  Little  Rock's  Rose  Festival— as  she 
led  the  Grand  Parade  on  the  arm  of 
Lieutenant  Hoyt  Allen.  The  Lieutenant  wore 
his  white  Naval  uniform.    Gail  also  wore 
white,  a  beautiful,  off-the-shoulder,  nylon 
gown  with  a  tight  bodice  and  billowing  skirt. 

But,  to  the  younger  fans  in  her  home 
town,  she  was  a  disappointment.  They 
thought  the  gun-toting,  fast-riding  heroine 
of  the  Annie  Oakley  series  was  far  more 
glamorous  in  her  cowgirl  outfit,  gun  belt  with 
six-shooters  slung  around  her  waist,  a 
wide-brimmed  Stetson  jauntily  perched  on 
her  head.    Two  worlds.    Two  points  of 
view.    Two  attitudes  toward  the  same  girl. 
Or  is  she  the  same  girl? 

"In  a  way,  I  live  a  double  life,"  says  Gail. 
"I've  always  been  tomboyish,  loved  to 
ride,  climb  trees,  wear  jeans.    But  at  the 
same  time    I  wanted  to  be  feminine, 
glamorous  and  sophisticated.  I've  been  com- 
peting with  myself!" 

That's  the  story  of  a  girl  who  has  fifteen 
glamorous  evening  gowns  in  her  closet, 
side  by  side  with  a  dozen  cowgirl  outfits, 
who  puts  on  her    (Continued  on  page  75) 

Gail  Davis  stars  in  the  title  role  of  Annie  Oakley,  as 
produced  for  TV  by  Gene  Autry's  Flying  A  Pictures. 
See  local  papers  for  time  and  station   in  your  area.  ' 


32 


Even  as  a  little  girl,  Sail 
loved  her  mother's  pretty 
clothes — and  her  perfume. 


She  still  believes  in  being 
feminine  today — and  is, 
on   the  set   or   at   home. 


-WINSOME 
ANNIE  OAKLEY 


Gail  can  really  ridel  She  can  also 
handle  Annie's  favorite  Winchester — 
OS  Gene  Autry  (foreground)  and  champ 
John  J.  Crowley  (left)  can  well  testify. 


Riding  on  location,  dancing  on  a 
date,  Gail  Davis  shows  how  a  smart 
girl  can  always  aim  for  glamour 

By  PEER  J.  OPPENHEIMER 


To  THE  OLDER  FOLKS,  the  middle-aged 
group  and  the  "young-married"   couples, 
Gail  Davis  was  just  about  the  most 
glamorous  girl  at  the  Grand  Ball — the 
highlight  of  Little  Rock's  Rose  Festival— as  she 
led  the  Grand  Parade  on  the  arm  of 
Lieutenant  Hoyt  Allen.  The  Lieutenant  wore 
his  white  Naval  uniform.    Gail  also  wore 
white,  a  beautiful,   off-the-shoulder,  nylon 
gown  with  a  tight  bodice  and  billowing  skirt. 

But,  to  the  younger  fans  in  her  home 
town,  she  was  a  disappointment.  They 
thought  the  gun-toting,  fast-riding  heroine 
of  the  Annie  Oakley  series  was  far  more 
glamorous  in  her  cowgirl  outfit,  gun  belt  with 
six-shooters  slung  around  her  waist,  a 
wide-brimmed  Stetson  jauntily  perched  on 
her  head.    Two  worlds.    Two  points  of 
view.    Two  attitudes  toward  the  same  girl. 
Or  is  she  the  same  girl? 

"In  a  way,  I  live  a  double  life,"  says  Gail. 
"I've  always  been  tomboyish,  loved  to 
ride,  climb  trees,  wear  jeans.    But  at  the 
same  time    I  wanted  to  be  feminine, 
glamorous  and  sophisticated.   I've  been  com- 
peting with  myself!" 

That's  the  story  of  a  girl  who  has  fifteen 
glamorous  evening  gowns  in  her  closet, 
side  by  side  with  a  dozen  cowgirl  outfits, 
who  puts  on  her    (Continued   on  page  75) 

Gail  Davis  stars  in  tlie  title  role  of  Annie  Oakley,  a.1 
produced  for  TV  by  Gene  Autry's  Flying  A  Picture!!. 
See  local  papers  for  time  and  station  in  your  area. ' 


Evan  as  a  little  girl,  Sail 
loved  her  mother's  pretty 
clothes — and  her  perfume. 


She  still  believes  in  being 
feminine  today — and  is, 
on   the   set  or  at   home. 


Clothes  mark  the  man:  Fess  forsakes  horse  for  plane  as  he  tours  the  country. 

Fess  Parker  fits  every  description  of 
a  legendary  hero— particularly 
that  beloved  giant,  Davy  Crockett! 


Davy   Crockett   fans   experienc 


34 


\Mlqktj  McMt  ii  Ht 


By  FREDDA  DUDLEY  BALLING 

FESS  Parker  has  appeared  in  ten  motion  pic- 
tures,   the    latest    and    most    important    of 
which  is  "Davy  Crockett,  King  of  the  Wild 
Frontier,"  and  he  has  starred  in  three  television 
films  on  'Disneyland — "Davy  Crockett,  Indian 
Fighter,"  "Davy  Crockett  Goes  to  Congress,"  and 
"Davy  Crockett  at  The  Alamo."  Comparatively 
speaking,  this  is  not  extensive  film  footage  for 
a  newcomer,  but  Fess  Parker's  fast  fame  proves 
that  uranium   is   where   you  find   it.   He   is 
authentic  Geiger-quaking,  fissionable  material — 
aU  six  feet,  five  inches  of  him — but  the  only  atomic 
fallout  expected  by  Walt  Disney,  who  has  Fess 
under  long-term  contract,  is  pennies  from  heaven. 
Or,  more  likely,  thousand-dollar  bills. 
.  To  get  a  few  things  straightened  out  at  once: 
Fess  Parker  is  his  square  moniker,  and  Fess,  in 
Old  English,  means  "proud."  In  heraldry,  a  ]ess 
is  a  wide,  horizontal  band  across  the  middle  of 
an  escutcheon — usually  constructed  of  some  such 


See  Next  Page 


Fess,  in  his  first  starring  role,  studies  the  Davy  Crockett  script 
with  Walt  Disney  and  Norman  Foster,  director  of  the  famed  film. 


the  thrill  of  a  lifetime  as  they  meet  their  idol  in  person. 


Clothes  mark  the  man:  Fess  forsakes  horse  for  plane  as  he  tours  the  country. 

Fess  Parker  fits  every  description  of 
a  legendary  hero — particularly 
that  beloved  giant,  Davy  Crockett! 


Oi  Miqktif  Mem  A  //e 


34 


By  FREDDA  DUDLEY  BALLING 

FESS  Parker  has  appeared  in  ten  motion  pic- 
tures,   the   latest    and    most    important    o£ 
which  is  "Davy  Crockett,  King  of  the  Wild 
Frontier,"  and  he  has  starred  in  three  television 
films  on  Disneyland — "Davy  Crockett,  Indian 
Fighter,"  "Davy  Crockett  Goes  to  Congress,"  and 
"Davy  Crockett  at  The  Alamo."  Comparatively 
speaking,  tliis  is  not  extensive  film  footage  for 
a  newcomer,  but  Fess  Parker's  fast  fame  proves 
that  uraniimi   is   where   you   find   it.   He   is 
authentic  Geiger-quaking,  fissionable  material — 
all  six  feet,  five  inches  of  him^but  the  only  atomic 
fallout  expected  by  Walt  Disney,  who  has  Fess 
under  long-term  contract,  is  pennies  from  heaven. 
Or,  more  likely,  thousand-dollar  bills. 
,  To  get  a  few  things  straightened  out  at  once; 
Fess  Parker  is  his  square  moniker,  and  Fess,  in 
Old  English,  means  "proud."  In  heraldry,  a  jess 
is  a  wide,  horizontal  band  across  the  middle  of 
an  escutcheon — usually  constructed  of  some  such 


See  Next  Page 


► 


Fess,  in  his  first  starring  role,  studies  the  Davy  Crockett  script 
with  Walt  Disney  and  Norman  Foster,  director  of  the  famed  film. 


Davy   Crockett   fans   expen 


Fess  Parker,  star  of  Walt  Disney's  full-length  feature  film, 
"Davy  Crockett,  King  of  the  Wild  Frontier,"  also  stars  in  thp 
popular  "Davy  Crockett"  episodes  on  Disneyland,  as  seen  over 
ABC-TV,  Wed.,  7:30  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by  the  American  Mo- 
tors Corp.,  Derby  Foods,  Inc.,  and  the  American  Dairy  Association. 


a  Miqk/q  Mem  i&  fk 

(.Continued) 

opulent  fabric  as  ermine,  velvet,  silver  or  gold.  In 
spite  of  all  this  implied  fanfare,  Fess  himself  has 
never  looked  up  the  Parker  family  crest  for  fear  of 
finding  on  it  a  small  biscuit  rampant — the  Parker 
House  roll. 

Born  in  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  ma'am,  Fess  grew  up 
in  San  Angelo.  He  started  his  college  career  at  Texas 
A.  and  M.,  transferred  to  Hardin-Simmons  (where 
he  hoped  to  play  four  years  of  college  football), 
served  three  years  in  the  Navy — rising  from  ap- 
prentice seaman  to  seaman,  first  class — returned  to 
Hardin-Simmons  briefly,  and  then  moved  to  the  Uni- 
versity of  Texas,  where  he  earned  his  degree.  He 
also  attended  U.S.C.  in  Los  Angeles,  where  he 
knocked  out  his  master's  degree  in  Theater  Arts.  His 
fraternity  is  Pi  Kappa  Alpha. 

At  this  point,  it  might  be  remarked  that  Fess  is 
not  ohly  a  picture  and  TV  star,  but  a  recording  artist, 
as  well — a  fact  which  makes  at  least  one  woman 
furious.  The  lady  in  question  stormed  into  a  Los 
Angeles  record  shop  and  asked  the  salesman  whether 
he  had  the  Fess  Parker  platter  of  "The  Ballad  of 
Davy  Crockett."  Apologetically,  the  salesman  ad- 
mitted that  he  was  temporarily  out  of  the  number, 
but  added  that  a  new  supply  would  arrive  shortly. 
Meanwhile,  he  said,  a  number  of  guitar-and-gullet 
boys  had  waxed  the  song  .  .  . 

"I  don't  want  a  substitute,"  snapped  the  shopper. 
"I  wdnt  Fess  or  nothing.  This  is  the  seventh  record 
shop  I've  tried,  and  every  single  one  of  them  is  sold 
out.  It  makes  me  simply  furious." 

(Note  to  the  lady:  By  the  time  you  read  this,  you 
will  be  able  to  buy— not  only  "The  Ballad"— but  a 
45  rpm  Columbia  recording  of  the  three  "Davy 
Crockett"  dramas  which  have  been  telecast.) 


At  The  Alamo:  Hans  Conreid  as  Thimblerig,  Nick  Crovot 
as  Bustedluck,  join   Fess  and   Buddy  In  their  last  stahd. 


36 


Raised  on  a  ranch  in  Texas,  bachelor  Fess  has  long  known  how  to  take  care  of  himself,  hie  lives  modestly  in  a  small  but 
comfortable  house  in  Hollywood,  keeps  a  neat  yard,  and  con  scramble  up  a  "mean"  egg  to  satisfy  his  hearty  appetite. 


Incidentally,  the  beginnings  of  Fess'  guitar  playing 
(so  vital  a  part  of  "The  Ballad  of  Davy  Crockett")  are 
shrouded  in  mystery.  One  version  is  that  he  was  born 
with  a  guitar  in  one  hand  and  a  Texas  bluebonnet  in 
the  other.  A  more  comfortable  theory  is  that,  while 
Fess  was  a  student  at  the  University  of  Texas,  folk 
singer  Burl  Ives  appeared  at  the  college  on  concert 
tour.  Fess  was  so  impressed  with  Ives'  performance — 
and  discovered  himself  to  be  so  completely  at  home 
with  the  material  used  and  the  interpretation  em- 
ployed— that  he  could  talk  of  nothing  else  for  weeks. 
His  girl  friend  finally  retaliated  by  buying  Fess  a 
guitar  for  Christmas. 

Of  course,  it  was  a  gag  gift  for  which  she  had  paid 
only  a  few  dollars  at  the  local  music  store,  but  Fess 
elected  to  take  it  seriously.  So  seriously  that  he  asked 
if  she  would  be  hurt  if  he  traded  in  the  six-stringer 
for  a  fine  instrument.  She  said  something  like  no,  not 
if  he  wouldn't  practice  under  her  balcony — and  that 
did  it. 

From  that  moment  to  this,  scarcely  a  day  has  gone 
by  during  which  Fess  has  not  fovmd  a  few  moments 
in  which  to  beat  out  chords.  Between  scenes  on  the 
set,  he  can  be  found  strumming  and  humming,  com- 
posing melodies  of  his  own.  His  only  periods  of  string- 
less  silence — sometimes  lasting  a  week — are  brought 
on  by  attendance  at  a  Segovia  concert.  "The  man  has  a 
kind  of  magic,"  he  says,  grinning  in  wry  appreciation. 
"It  doesn't  seem  human  for  one  pair  of  hands  to  get 
so  much  music  out  of  a  guitar." 

His  regional  drawl  (more  Southern  than  Texan) ,  his 
quiet  manner,  his  far-flung  stature,  his  steady  eyes — 
and  his  air  of  considered  calm — convey  at  least  one 
wrong  impression.  A  stranger  (Continued  on  page  86) 


A  guitar  player  since  college  days,  Fess  composes  his 
own  tunes,  enjoys  duets  with  girl  friend  Marcy  Rinehart. 


37 


TWICE  BLESSED 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Novotny  of  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa,  were 
aboard  the  Queen  Mary  when  they  learned  their  number  had 
won!  Below,  Janis  Carter  welcomed  them  back  from  Europe. 


(- 


Feather  Your  Nesi,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  12:30  P.M.   EDT— for 
Colgate-Palmolive,    Cavalier    Cigarettes,    other    products. 


Fate  had  an  inspiring  surprise  in 
store,  when  Feather  Your  Nest 
presented  a  house  to  the  Novotnys 


By  LILLA  ANDERSON 

THE  STAFF  at  Feather  Your  Nest  was  still 
buzzing.  "You  should  have  been  here 
yesterday,"  said  George  Backman,  the  set 
designer.  .  .  .  "You  never  saw  such  a  thing," 
said  a  stagehand.  .  .  .  "Bud  Collyer  got  all 
choked  up  and  red  in  the  face  and  Janis  Carter 
couldn't  talk,  she  was  that  surprised,"  said 
Randy  Kraft,  the  announcer.  .  .  .  "The  people 
who  won  the  house  darned  near  broke  up  the 
show,"  said  Louise  Hammett,  the  associate 
producer. 

Breaking  up  that  tight,  competent,  happy  gang 
takes  some  doing.    I  got  a  word  in  edgewise: 
"What  actually  happened?"  And  Pearl  Penney, 
who  is- in  charge  of  the  prizes,  explained:  "They 
said  nothing  had  ever  meant  so  much  to  them 
as  winning  this  house.   So  they  brought  Bud  a 
silk  tie  from  Italy  and  Janis  some  costume 
jewelry  from  Paris.   It's  never  happened  before. 
Contestants  just  don't  do  that." 

Everyone  nodded.   This,  they  indicated,  was 
their  own,  particular  (Continued  on  page  84) 


Charlie  and  Glad  were  a 


38 


Bud  Collyer,  emcee  of  Feather  Your  Nest,  handed  the  Novotnys  the  key  to  their  dream  house,  as  hostess  Janis  beamed. 
Skogman  showed  them  their  P  &  H  "Lakeside"  model  home — which  had  even  more  meaning  for  the  Novotnys  than  a  new  house. 


39 


TWICE  BLESSED 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Novotny  of  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa,  were 
aboard  the  Queen  Mary  when  they  learned  their  number  had 
won!  Below,  Janis  Carter  welcomed  them  back  from  Europe. 


fyatherYour  A-e.,,  NBC-TV.  M-F.  12:30  P.M.   EDT-for 
Colgate-Palmolive,    Cavalier    Cigarettes,    other    products. 


Fate  had  an  inspiring  surprise  in 
store,  when  Feather  Your  Nest 
presented  a  house  to  the  Novotnys 

By  LILLA  ANDERSON 


THE  STAFF  at  Feather  Your  Nest  was  still 
buzzing.  "You  should  have  been  here 
yesterday,"  said  George  Backman,  the  set 
designer.  .  .  .  "You  never  saw  such  a  thing," 
said  a  stagehand.  .  .  .  "Bud  CoUyer  got  all 
choked  up  and  red  in  the  face  and  Janis  Carter 
couldn't  talk,  she  was  that  surprised,"  said 
Randy  Kraft,  the  announcer.  .  .  .  "The  people 
who  won  the  house  darned  near  broke  up  the 
show,"  said  Louise  Hammett,  the  associate 
producer. 

Breaking  up  that  tight,  competent,  happy  gang 
takes  some  doing.    I  got  a  word  in  edgewise: 
"What  actually  happened?"  And  Pearl  Penney, 
who  is-in  charge  of  the  prizes,  explained:  "They 
said  nothing  had  ever  meant  so  much  to  them 
as  winning  this  house.   So  they  brought  Bud  a 
silk  tie  from  Italy  and  Janis  some  costume 
jewelry  from  Paris.   It's  never  happened  before. 
Contestants  just  don't  do  that." 

Everyone  nodded.   This,  they  indicated,  was 
their  own,  particular  (Continued  on  page  84) 


Charlie  and  Glad  were  all   snniles  as   builder  LeRoy 


Bud  Collyer,  emcee  of  Feather  Your  Nest,  handed  the  Novotnys  the  key  to  their  dream  house,  as  hostess  Janis  beamed. 
Skogman  showed  them  their  P  &  H  "Lakeside"  model  home— which  had  even  more  meaning  for  the  Novotnys  than  a  new  house. 


39 


)WP*^ja«V 


V,  ^ 


ffo/td^y  Tim  for 


^i 


IX 


7. 


^ 


• 


..■,.1^ 


Coney  Island  was  as  much  of  a  thrill  to  Godfrey's  small  guests  from  the  Henry  Street  Settlement  as  it  was  to 

Arthur  himself — and  he  was  as  excited  as  any  of  'em.   His  own  Little  Godfreys  were  somewhat  timid  about  the  various  "rides," 

requiring  his  constant  reassurance.    Below,  he  grasps   Phyllis   McGuire's  hand  as  they  swing  in  the  Chairoplone. 


When  the  world's  gayest  redhead  takes 
over  the  world's  gayest  playground, 
anything  can  happen — and  so  it  does  ! 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 


IF  A  MAN  is  as  old  as  he  feels,  the  world- 
famous  one  with  the  red  hair  and  freckles 
has  no  business  rxinning  around  in  long 
pants.    The  day  Arthur  Godfrey  spent  at  Coney 
Island,  he  acted  like  a  nine-year-old — give  or 
take  a  year.  There  were  four  hundred 
children  from  the  Henry  Street  Settlement  as 
Arthur's  guests,  but  you  needed  a  score  card  to 
tell  the  Godfrey  gang  from  the  kids. 


mtm 


41 


V 


Holiday  Tine  for 


Coney  Island  was  as  much  of  a  thrill  to  Godfrey's  small  guests  from  the  Henry  Street  Settlement  as  it  was  to 

Arthur  himself — and  he  was  as  excited  as  any  of  'em.   His  own  Little  Godfreys  were  somewhat  timid  about  the  various  "ride 

requiring  his  constant  reassurance.    Below,  he  grosps  Phyllis  McGuire's  hand  as  they  swing  in  the  Chairoplane. 


When  the  world's  gayest  redhead  takes 
over  the  world's  gayest  playground, 
anything  can  happen — and  so  it  does ! 


By  MARTIN  COHEN 


IF  A  MAN  is  as  old  as  he  feels,  the  world- 
famous  one  with  the  red  hair  and  freckles 
has  no  business  running  around  in  long 
pants.   The  day  Arthur  Godfrey  spent  at  Coney 
Island,  he  acted  like  a  nine-year-old— give  or 
take  a  year.  There  were  four  hundred 
children  from  the  Henry  Sti-eet  Settlement  as 
Arthur's  guests,  but  you  needed  a  score  card  to 
tell  the  Godfrey  gang  from  the  kids. 


SODFRIY 


Holiday  Tine  for  SODFREY 


{Continued) 


"This  is  the  greatest  fun,"  he  said,  and  for  the 
next  hour  laughed  harder  than  a  Macy's  Santa 
Claus. 

Fun  it  was  but,  to  be  downright  objective,  some 
of  those  screams  of  joy  sounded  mighty  like 
screams  of  anguish.  And  they'll  tell  you  the  color 
was  something — and  it  was — the  shimmering 
scramble  of  the  merry -go-roUnd  bulbs,  the  bold 
stripes  of  Arthur's  fancy  coveralls,  the  Godfrey 
gals  in  red  and  green  dresses  with  faces  to  match. 

"Such  fun,"  Arthur  kept  saying.  "I  can't  re- 
member when  I  ever  had  such  fun." 

The  show  from  Steeplechase  Park  had  been 
in  the  works  for  a  few  years.  For  one  good  rea- 
son or  another,  it  was  put  off  until  this  summer. 
When  Arthur  gave  the  go-ahead,  director  Bobby 
Bleyer,  Arthur's  assistant  Freddie  Hendrickson, 
and  a  crew  of  technicians  swarmed  over  the 
Park.  They  checked  for  acoustics.  They  timed 
the  rides.  They  planned  a  route  for  the  cast. 
And  talk  about  rehearsals — days,  weeks,  months 
— this  one  had  none.  The  evening  before  the 
telecast,  Arthur  came  out  to  the  Park  and  stayed 
until  midnight.  He  literally  rehearsed  for  the 
entire  cast. 

"Arthur  was  on  every  ride  at  least  a  half- 
dozen  times,"  a  spy  from  NBC  reports.  "He  said 
that  he  was  doing  it  for  the  sake  of  the  show, 
but  he  was  really  having  the  time  of  his  life." 

The  Little  Godfreys  were  kept  away  until  near 
show  time,  for  Arthur  felt  that  getting  their  first 


Whirlpool:  Godfrey  in  center,  back  to  camera — flanked 
by  Janette  and  assorted  McSuires — with  Frank  Parker 
to  his  right  and  Carmel  Quinn  poised  in  the  foreground. 


Arthur  whooshed  happily  down  the  breathtaking  Pan- 
ama Slide,  as  the  McGuire  Sisters  prepared  to  follow 
and  Janette  Davis  (top  right)  hesitated — and  hesitated. 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10  A.M.,  and  CBS- 
TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M.,  and  Arthur  Godfrey's  Digest,  on  CBS 
Radio,  Fri.,  8  P.M.;  multiple  sponsorship.  Arthur  Godfrey's  Tal- 
ent Scouts,  on  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Men.,  8:30  P.M.,  spon- 
sored by  Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.  and  CBS-Columbia.  (All  EDT^ 


42 


reactions  to  the  rides  would  be  more  fun.  The 
McGuire  Sisters  were  singing  in  Pittsburgh  that 
week.  Arthur  sent  his  plane  down  for  them  and 
they  got  to  the  Park  about  an  hour  before  broad- 
cast time.  Janette  Davis,  who  was  supposed  to 
be  vacationing  in  Europe,  startled  even  Arthur 
by  walking  into  the  studio  that  same  morning. 
She  had  landed  at  International  Airport  at  nine- 
thirty  A.M.  Actually,  Jan  had  got  homesick  and 
cut  her  vacation  short  by  three  weeks.  And,  of 
course,  Carmel  Quinn  and  Tony  Marvin  were 
on  hand. 

The  wardrobe  department  had  brought  clothes 
for  everyone.  Arthur  and  Frank  Parker,  Tony 
Marvin  and  dance  director  Harry  Rogue,  all 
wore  fancy  bib-overalls.  Arthur  wore  a  bright- 
yellow  shirt  under  his  blazing  blue  stripes. 

The  case  history  of  the  women's  clothes  is 
intriguing.  The  man  in  charge  of  buying  and 
supplying  clothes  had  brought  in  form-fitting, 
faille,  mechanic-type  suits  for  the  girls,  plus  flat 
shoes. 

"No,  no,  no,"  said  Arthur  with  incisive  realism. 
"If  women  are  going  to  dress  up  like  test  pilots, 
men  will  stop  going  to  amusement  parks  with, 
them.  If  you  can't  see  a  bit  of  ankle  and  calf, 
then  we  might  as  well  go  back  to  Manhattan  and 
play  pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey." 

The  wardrobe  man  was  a  magician.  He  put 
the  coveralls  back  on  the  rack  and  brought  out 
some  new  dresses,  pink  {Continued  on  page  78) 


Around  and  around  they  go — and  where  they'll 
land  nobody  knows!  Janette  was  the  last  to  spin 
off.   Godfrey   alone   maintained   his   equilibrium. 


Janette  had  no  fears  of  the  parachute  jump,  made 
two  trips  with  Tony  Marvin.  Godfrey  was  good  with 
a  target  rifle — and  a   crack  shot  with  a   baseball! 


The  $64,000  Question 


For  Hal  March,  it  isn't  making  money 

— or  even  giving  it  away.  It's: 

How  long  is  he  going  to  be  a  bachelor? 

By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


Contestant  Redmond  O'Hanlon  waits  as  Hal  reaches  for  the 
envelope  which  might  have  led  him  to  the  $64,000  Question. 
Banker  Ben  Feit  is  the  custodian  of  both  cash  and  queries. 

ALL  THE  PEOPLE  in  this  story  are  really  people, 
except  for  Hal  March  .   .  .  sometimes  he's  a 
character — and  why  not? — for  he  is  or  has  been  a 
boxer,  actor,  writer,  lover,  comedian,  burlesque-type 
baritone,  ah  unhappy  bachelor,  a  happy  bachelor  .  .  . 
and  now  he's  got  the  job  of  passing  out  dollars  by 
the  bucketful! 

"The  way  I  hear  it,"  Hal  {Continued  on  page  90) 


Hal  March  emcees  The  $64,000  Question  on  CBS-TV,  Tues.,  10 
P.M.  EDT,  for  the  Revlon  Products  Corporation.  He  co-stars  with 
Tom  D'Andrea  in  The  Soldiers,  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  8  P.M.,  EDT. 


Hal  March  and  Tom  D'Andrea  have  an  informal  look 
at  the  script  for  their  situation  comedy,  The  Soldiers. 

Commuting  to  New  York  from  California,  Hal  camps  comfortably  in  a  hotel  apartment,  catches  up  on  his  East  Coast  mail 
.  .  .  watches  his  beloved  Giants  play  ball  on  TV  .  .  .  and   learns  how  to  live  out  of  a  suitcase,  in  real  stage-trouper  style. 


Bill  and  Mary  wed  in  college.  Today,  they  count  their 
blessings:  Growing  mail  from  his  TV  fans,  a  gold  disc 
for  his  first  million-sale  record,  a  lovely  home — and 
lively   Carrie,    7,    Billy,    5,    Cathy,    4,    and   Tommy,    1. 


Bill  Hayes  is  always  lucky— whether 
meeting  Mary,  making  records,  or 
singing  on  Sid  Caesar's  big  new  show 


(m 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


THE  SEVEN  GIRLS  With  previous  commitments, 
who  had  to  turn  down  Bill  Hayes  when  he  telephoned 
for  a  date,  couldn't  know  that  destiny  was  on  the 
side  of  Mary  Hobbs.  Mary  was  a  sorority  sister 
of  Bill's  cousin,  and  she  was  eighth  on  the  list  of 
possible  dates  the  cousin  had  given  him.    The  only 
reason  Mary  happened  to  be  free  that  evening  was  that 
she  was  angry  at  her  own  date.   It  would  prove  to 
that  young  man  she  didn't  have  to  stay  at  home, 
moping  over  him! 

Practically  any  girl  in  town  would  have  said  "yes" 
to  a  date  with  Bill  Hayes,  if  she  could.   He  was 
a  handsome  five-foot,  nine-and-a-half-inch  college 


46 


Continued 


•.-  1^*- 


/ 


# 


i. 


I 


Their  present  home  on  Long  Island  is  the  fulfillment 
of  o  dream  Bill  and  Mary  had  since  the  makeshift 
rooms  of  early  student  days  and  their  years  of  touring. 


/e^_rwe 


(ContvaneA) 


junior,  with  wavy  black  hair,  nice  gray-blue  eyes.  He 
had  a  smile  which  came  suddenly  and  lit  up  his  whole 
face,  a  quiet  speaking  voice  and  manner,  and  a  fine 
singing  voice.  He  was  a  serious  musician  who  played 
the  violin,  piano  and  guitar.  In  sum,  he  was  an  alto- 
gether attractive  and  eligible  young  man.  (All  of  which 
were  also  good  reasons  for  Mary  Hobbs  to  become  Mrs. 
Mary  Hayes  a  little  more  than  a  year  later.) 

Now,  some  ten  years  after  that  first  date.  Bill  is  still 
a  quiet  and  serious  young  man — though  he's  a  highly 
popular  TV  personality  in  the  musical  revue  produced 
by  Sid  Caesar,  with  such  co-stars  as  Phil  Foster,  Bobby 
Sherwood  and  Barbara  Nichols.  Bill  has  to  his  credit 
a  fabulously  successful  Cadence  recording  of  "The 
Ballad  of  Davy  Crockett" — well  past  the  million  and  a 
half  mark  in  sales — and  a  newer  one  called  "The  Berry 
Tree,"  which  is  climbing  up  fast.  Behind  him  are  such 
successes  as  three  and  a  half  years  on  Your  Show  Oj 
Shows,  with  Sid  Caesar  and  Imogene  Coca;  the  juvenile 
leads  in  a  long-run  romantic  Broadway  musical,  "Me 
and  Juliet,"  and  a  Hollywood  movie,  "Stop,  You're 
Killing  Me!" — plus  innumerable  leads  in  srnnmer  stock, 
hundreds  of  personal  appearances,  dozens  of  guest  shots 
on  radio  and  television.  You  could  say  that  this  Bill 
Hayes  is  a  young  man  who  has  definitely  "arrived." 

You  wouldn't  guess  any  of  this  if  you  saw  him  at 
home,  however,  with  the  four  lively  Hayes  yoimgsters — 
who  make  Bill  seem  even  quieter  and  calmer  by  con- 
trast. Besides  his  own  brood,  the  neighbors'  kids  usually 
come  a-shouting  when  his  canary-colored  convertible 
turns  into  the  driveway  of  the  ranch-type  house  the 
Hayes  live  in,  on  Long  Island.  It's  a  pretty  house,  cedar- 
shingled  with  pale-green  trim,  with  room  for  a  growing 
family  and  for  a  boxer  named  Mister  and  a  white  cat 
named  Snowball. 


Bill  Hayes  sings  on  Sid  Caesar's  new  hour-long  revue  over  NBC-TV, 
three  Mondays  out  of  four,  from  8  to  9  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by 
Lee  Limited  (for  Dri-Mist  and  Sof-Set  No-Lac),  American  Chicle 
Co.   (Dentyne  chewing  gum),  Remington  Rand  Eleptric  Shavers. 


jiif 


Special  family  quor+et — Bill  Hayes  III  and  Bill   Hayes  IV,   Carrie  and  Cathy — blending  voices  in  guess  what  ballad? 


The  children  aie  seven-year-old  Carrie  (full  name 
Carolyn,  but  nobody  calls  her  that) ;  five-year-old  Billy 
(BUI  Hayes  IV,  named  after  his  father,  his  grandfather 
and  great-grandfather);  Cathy,  a  merry  four-year-old; 
and  Tommy,  a  friendly,  laughing  toddler.  The  boys  look 
like  Bill,  except  that  they  have  blond  hair.  The  girls 
look  like  Mary,  who  is  a  five-foot,  four-inch,  blue-eyed, 
slender,  strawberry  blonde.  Cathy,  in  particular,  is  the 
image  of  her  mother,  with  the  same  gold-red  long  bob 
and  bangs. 

Mary  sighs  a  little  over  the  fact  that  there  isn't  a  child 
in  the  lot  with  Bill's  shining  dark  hair.  Or,  right  now, 
with  Bill's  quiet  voice!  The  noise  at  times  can  be 
shattering — ^but  not  to  Bill.  He  may  come  home,  ex- 


hausted from  long  rehearsals  and  quick  personal- 
appearance  trips  and  business  conferences.  Yet  he'll  sit 
there  and  listen  to  the  kids  as  if  their  shrieks  and 
laughter  were  the  muted  music  of  some  far-off 
symphony.   He  just  likes  kids. 

Sometimes,  when  three  or  four  of  the  neighbors'  chil- 
dren join  his  own  and  the  going  gets  too  rough,  he  will 
ask  gently,  "Will  you  kids  play  outside  for  a  while?" — 
adding  a  "Please."  It's  the  closest  he  comes  to  a  com- 
mand, but  they  understand,  and  out  they  go  without  too 
much  fuss.  But,  mostly,  it's  Mary  who  shoos  them  away 
when  Bill  wants  to  rest  or  read. 

"If  you  want  a  typical  picture  of  my  husband  with 
the  children,"  she  observes,    {Continued  on  page  82) 


49 


t. 


Unexpected 
Romance 


At  three  o'clock  in  the  morning,  in  the  baronial  ele- 
f\     gance  of  the  Hotel  Plaza's  Oak  Room,  Miss 
Patricia  Wheel  .  .  .  young  and  lovely  star  of 
NBC  Radio's  The  Doctor's  Wife,  featured  player  in 
CBS-TV's  The  Guiding  Light,  and  talented  charmer  of 
assorted  television  dramas  .  .  .  gazed  across  the  table 
at  her  handsome  companion,  Eric  Henry  Alba 
Teran,  and — as  definitely  as  though  she  were  reading 
a  line  of  script — said  silently  to  herself,  "I  like  this  man." 

Among  those  never-to-be-forgotten  moments  by 
which  a  woman  marks  the  course  of  her  love,  usually 
the  first  is  that  one  in  which  her  secret  heart  tells 
her  conscious  mind,  "I  like  this  man."    For  Pat, 
however,  it  was  belated  and  consequently  confusing. 

Seated  in  the  charming  garden  (Continued  on  page  88) 


To  Patricia  Wheels  love  andl  marriage 
were  but  distant  dreams — then, 
suddenly,  the  right  man  came  along! 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


Interest  in  her  work  first  brought  Pat  and  Eric 
Henry  Alba  Teran  together.  Now,  she's  fascinated 
by  his  career  as  an  industrial  designer — and  both 
are  busy  with  projects  in  their  garden  apartment. 


Patricia  Wheel  is  Julie  Palmer  in  The  Doctor's  Wife,  as 
written  by  Manya  Starr,  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  10:30  A.M.  She  is 
Peggy  Ryan  in  The  Guiding  Light,  CBS-TV,  12:45  P.M.— 
CBS  Radio,  1 :45  P.M.— M-F,  for  Ivory  and  Duz.  (All  EDT) 


51 


Television's  excellent 
"one-night  stands"  play  to 
the  greatest  audience  on  earth 


Kraft  Television  Theater.  Left:  Curtis  James  as  the  witch  doctor,  Ossie  Davis  as  the  emperor,  and  Everett  Sloane  as  the  "trader" 
in  a  colorful  scene  from  Eugene  O'Neill's  noted  drama,  "Emperor  Jones."  Right:  Celebrating  its  eighth  anniversary  as  the  first 
and  oldest  TV  dramatic  hour,  Kraft  featured  Harry  Townes,  Elizabeth  Eraser  and  John  Cassavetes  in  "Judge  Contain's  Hotel." 


Ford  Theater.  Left:  Franchot  Tone,  Laroine  Day 
and-  Natalie  Wood  star  in  "Too  Old  for  Dolls." 
Above:    Kathryn   Grant  in    "Touch   of  Spring." 


U.  S.  Steel  Hour  (now  on  CBS-TV):  Kenny  Delnnar,  Josephine 
Hull  ond  Wally  Cox  in  "The  Meanest  Man  in  the  World." 


Studio  One  Summer  Theater:  John  Forsythe  and  Nita 
Talbot  in  "Operation  Honne,"  slated  for  the  movies. 


TV  theater  close-up 


TEN  YEARS  AGO,  the  idea  of  bringing  plays  of  Broadway 
caliber   into   American   homes  via   television  was   a 
far-fetched  dream — possible,  perhaps,  but  most 
improbable.  Even  five  years  ago,  although  great  strides 
had  been  made,  TV  was  still  in  the  knee-pants  stage. 
The  pioneer  dramatic  programs  of  today — such  as  Kraft 
TV  Theater,  Studio  One,  Philco  TV  Playhouse— vjere 
then  in  their  infancy.  Television,  like  any  growing 
child,  still  had  to  seek  its  guidance  and  dependence  from 
a  parent — Hollywood.  But  today  the  shoe  is  on  the 
other  foot.  Hollywood's  former  attitude  of  condescension 
and  indifference  has  changed  to  one  of  respect — and 
gratitude.  For  the  film  world  has  recognized  television 
for  what  it  is:  a  tremendous  and  unlimited  source  of 
creativeness.  Hollywood  can  thank  TV  for  stars  such 
as  Eva  Marie  Saint,  James  Dean,  Charlton  Heston, 
Jack  Lemmon,  who  got  their  first  "breaks"  in  video.  And 
to  TV  goes  the  credit  for  such  movies  as  "Little 
Boy  Lost,"  "Marty"  and  the  forthcoming  "Patterns" 
and  "The  Catered  Affair." 

The  list  of  fine  dramatic  TV  programs  is  as  long 
as  it  is  varied.  Granddaddy  of  them  all  is  Kraft 
TV  Theater,  which  debuted  May  7,  1947.     Kraft  also 
has  the  distinction  of  being  the  first  commercial 
network  show,  first  to  be  carried  on  the  Midwest  cable, 
first  to  prepare  a  drama  for  a  color  telecast,  and  first 
to  present  104  full-hour  live  drama  productions  in  one 
year  (on  two  networks) .  The  following  year,  1948, 
Studio  One  made  its  bow  and,  during  its  seven-year 
run,  has  consistently  presented  outstanding  performers 
in  excellent  productions  ranging  from  opera  and 

See  Next  Page  m 


Philco  TV  Ployhouse:  Thelnna  Ritter,  Kathleen  Maguire, 
Pat  Henning,  Pat  O'Malley  in  "The  Catered  Affair." 


53 


TV  theater  close-up 


{Continued) 


ballet  to  comedies  and  fantasies,  melodramas  and 
documentaries.  In  1949,  Philco  TV  Playhouse 
entered  the  TV  picture  and  immediately  distinguished 
itself  by  presenting  "Dinner  at  Antoine's,"  the  first 
TV  adaptation  of  a  full-length  novel.  By  1950,  Robert 
Montgomery  Presents  was  in  full  swing,  presenting  an 
unusual  variety  of  original  and  adapted  stories  and 
providing  a  debut  center  for  celebrities  and  unknowns.  In 
more  recent  years,  as  the  number  of  viewers  has  grown 
to  be  the  greatest  audience  on  earth,  those  behind  the 
scenes  have  striven  to  present  bigger  and  better 
productions  to  match  the  magnitude  of  that  audience. 
Climax,  U.  S.  Steel  Hour,  Lux  Video  Theater,  The  Hall- 
mark Hall  Of  Fame  are  but  a  few  fine  examples. 
And — whereas,  in  previous  years,  summer  was  considered 
a  slack  season — this  year  the  powers-that-be  have 
taken  a  bold  step  and  have  continued  to  give  viewers 
first-rate  fare  throughout  the  warm  months. 

Pictured  on  these  pages  are  stars  and  scenes  from 
leading  TV  dramatic  programs  which  can  be  seen  the  year 
'round.  Many  of  the  lead  players  are  top  Hollywood 
stars — ^Dane  Clark,  Ruth  Roman,  Thelma  Ritter,  Mary 
Astor.  Others  have  distinguished  themselves  on  Broad- 
way— ^Josephine  Hull,  Eddie  Albert,  Franchot  Tone, 
John  Forsythe.  Then  there  are  those  who,  in  addition 
to  stage,  radio  and  movie  appearances,  have  established 
a  definite  and  esteemed  place  for  themselves  in  TV. 

Everett  Sloane  has  behind  him  twenty-five  years  of 
acting  experience.  Leaving  the  University  of  Pennsylvania 
in  his  junior  year,  he  studied  at  the  Hedgerow  Reper- 
tory Theater.  Soon,  he  established  himself  in 
radio  as  a  leading  actor  on  such  programs  as  Crime 
Doctor,  Mr.  Ace  And  Jane,  Grand  Central  Station  and, 
most  recently,  21st  Precinct.  His  many  movie  credits 


Robert  Montgomery  Summer  Theater:  Elizabeth  Mont- 
gomery and  John  Newland,  who  is  the  show's  director. 


General  Electric  Theater:  Eddie  Albert,  Ruth  Roman,  Robert  Armstrong  and  Dane  Clark  combine  their  years 
of  experience   on    Broadway   and    in    Hollywood    to    present   the   suspenseful   drama,   "Into  the   Night." 


54 


n 
I 


The  Vise:  High-tension  dranna,   British  style,  is  presented  weekly  in  films  made  in  England  and  featuring 
numerous   international   stars.    Above.    Brenda    Hogan   and    Kenneth    hiaigh   star   in    "Weekend   Guest." 


include  "The  Desert  Fox,"  "The  Men"  and  "The  Blue 
Veil,"  and  on  Broadway  he  was  seen  in  "Room  Service" 
and  "A  Bell  for  Adano."  Television  has  consistently 
claimed  him  on  all  major  programs,  among  them,  Kraft 
TV  Theater,  Studio  One  and  Front  Row  Center. 

John  Newland  started  his  stage  career  at  16  and,  after 
many  years  as  a  singer  and  dancer  in  vaudeville, 
switched  to  serious  acting  and  studied  in  New  York. 
He  has  appeared  on  Broadway  in  "Lend  an  Ear"  and 
"Ziegfeld  Follies."  In  the  past  few  years  he  has 
devoted  his  talents  almost  exclusively  to  television, 
most  notably  on  Robert  Montgomery  Presents. 

Harry  Townes,  after  a  long  run  in  Broadway's  famous 
"Tobacco  Road,"  spent  four  years  at  the  Kennebunk 
Playhouse  in  Maine,  appeared  in  other  leading  Broadway 
productions,  such  as  "Finian's  Rainbow,"  and  starred 
in  the  movie,   "Operation  Manhunt."  His  consistently 
excellent  performances  on  every  major  dramatic  show, 
including  Studio  One,  Kraft,  and  Pond's  Theater,  have 
made  him  a  favorite  of  producers  and  viewers  alike. 

Nita  Talbot  showed  show-business  promise  from  the 
time-  she  was  three  and  entertained  at  parties.  She 
was  a  Conover  model  in  her  teens,  studied  acting  in  New 
York  and  later  with  Charles  Laugh  ton.  After  a  few 
unsatisfactory  Hollywood  roles  she  returned  to  New  York 
and  began  concentrating  on  television.  She  created 
attention  with  her  role  as  a  dumb  blonde  in  the  Claudia 
series  and  has  since  proved  her  versatility  in  roles 
on  Studio  One  and  Goodyear  TV  Playhouse. 

At  "^   Natahe  Wood  has  behind  her  the  experience  of 
an  aci     ss  twice  her  age.  First  winning  acclaim  in 
movies  such  as  "Tomorrow  Is  Forever,"  "The  Miracle  on 
34th  Street"  and  "The  Blue  Veil,"  she  endeared  herself 
to  TV  audiences  as  Paul  Hartman's  daughter  in  Pride 
Of  The  Family.  Numerous  other  TV  performances 
include  leads  in  "Alice  in  Wonderland,"  Hollywood 
Opening  Night  and  Ford  Theater. 

With  the  presence  of  such  performers  as  these,  plus 
many  others,  new  and  old,  whom  TV  has  to  offer, 
there  can  be  no  doubt  of  good  things  to  come. 
And  it  seems  quite  certain  that  television,  show-business' 
biggest  "upstart,"  is  now  entering  its  own  Golden  Age. 


Front  Row  Center:  Marion  Ross  and  Mary  Astor  in  a 
scene  from  stoge  and  screen   hit,   "Dinner  at  Eight." 


55 


To  Frankie  Laine,  love  of  music  is  love  of  people  .  .  . 

the  enduring  joys  of  friendship,  family  and  faith 


56 


Jft 


^1 


The  Laines  are   "really  living"   in  their  Dutch   Colonial   honie   in  California.    Frankie's  wife  is  lovely  Nan  Grey,  and  he's 
"Daddy"  to  Pom  and  Jan,   I  I  and  12.  That's  Lucky,  the  family  pet,  with  Frankle  and  the  girls,  beside  the  swimnning  pool. 

By   BUD   GOODE 

FRANKiE  Laine  walked  down  the  hall  of  a  charitable 
home  in  Ferguson,  Missouri.   It  was  1947,  and 
Frank's  popularity  was  riding  the  crest  of  his  first 
big  record  hit,  "That's  My  Desire."    He  and  his 
accompanist,  Carl  Fischer,  had  driven  to  the  charitable 
home  from  St.  Louis  to  visit  little  Helen  Maysey,  a 
bedridden  teenager.    The  attendant  told  Frank  that 
Helen  suffered  from  splenic  anemia.   Every  three 
months,  she  had  to  go  to  the  Christian  Hospital  in 
St.  Louis  for  a  transfusion — three  to  four  pints  of 
blood.    The  fresh  supply  of  blood  carried  her  through 
the  next  three  months.    The  doctors  knew  little 
about  her  illness.   She  wasn't  given  much  hope. 

Frank  and  Carl  opened  the  door  to  Helen's  small, 
cell-like  room.    The  wall  behind  her  bed  was  covered 
with  Frankie  Laine  pictures.  {Continued  on  page  98) 

The  Frankie  Laine  Show  replaces  Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends 
for  8  summer  weeks,  on  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M.  EDT,  sponsored  by 
The  Toni  Company  and  by  Frigidaire.  See  local  newspapers 
for  time  and    station  of  Frankie's  TV   program   for  Guild  Films. 

Decorator  Nan  designed  the  Laines'   unique  dining  table.    The  student's  chair  where  Jan  does  her  homework  (assisted  by 
Frankie)  is  one  of  the  many  antiques  Nan  has  collected — as  Is  the  marble-top  dresser  in  Nan's  and  Frankie's  bedroom. 


^p8* 


ti*{<>S^*|fe»ft»««Ji,' 


Tod  Andrews  conquered  his  shyness— and  won  even  more 

than  a  stellar  career  in  the  TV  drama.  First  Love 


By  ED  MEYERSON 


HE  WAS  SHY.  He  was  sensitive.  And,  to  make  matters 
worse,  his  last  name  began  with   "A."  This  meant 
that,  in  all  his  classes  at  school,  Tod  Andrews  had 
to  sit  in  the  first  row — usually,  the  first  seat — and  in- 
variably, the  teacher  would  call  on  him -first.  Now,  it 
wasn't  that  Tod  didn't  know  the  answer.  He  just  didn't 


know  how  to  get  it  out.  Stuttering  and  stammering — 
his  cheeks  burning  red  with  bashfulness — he  could 
neither  speak  nor  could  he  die  on  the  spot.  And  the 
floor  refused  to  swallow  him  up. 

It  was  Tod's  mother  who  suggested  that  he  enroll  in 
a  dramatics  class  to  help  get  (Continued  on  page  80) 


58 


Help  Yourself  to  Living 


The  great  satisfactions  which  hove  come  to  Tod  Andrews  as  an  actor  have  been  personal,  rather  than  professional.  It  was 
through  his  stage  roles  that  he  met  Gloria  Folland,  herself  a  successful  actress.  Now  there's  a  young  Tod  Walter  Andrews, 
aged  three  and  red-headed.  "Nothing  shy  about  him,"  grins  Tod — who,  if  he  hadn't  been  shy,  might  not  have  turned  actor! 


Tod  and  Gloria  toured  together  in  the  play,  "Mr.  Roberts" 
— and  got  tips  on  real  seamanship  from  Copt.  Ralph  Wilhelm, 
CO.  of  the  USS  Uvalde,  and  Lieut.  Comm.  Edward  Fain  (left). 


Tod  Andrews  is  Zach  James  in  First  Love,  by  Manya  Starr,  on  NBC-TV, 
M-F,   4:15   P.M.   EDT.   for   Jergens-Woodbury   Products   and  others. 


59 


I.  Stanley  Warrick  agrees  to  pretend  that  Janice  Bennett 
and  he  are  engaged,  as  Stella  challenges  him  with  a  test  of 
whonn  her  daughter  Laurel  loves — him  or  her  husband  Dick. 


STELLA  DALLAS  smiled  sadly  to  herself  as  she  thought  of 
the  triangle  of"  mothers  of  which  she  was  a  part — 
of  the  three  mature  women  struggling  and  striving 
to  protect  what  each  saw  as  the  happiness  of  her  child. 
SteUa  wondered  how  much  a  mother  should  be  allowed 
to  interfere  in  her  child's  life  and  whether  she  had  per- 
haps made  the  wrong  move  in  her  effort  to  protect  her 
daughter  Laurel  against  Mrs.  Grosvenor  and  Ada  Dex- 
ter. .  .  .  From  the  very  start,  Mrs.  Grosvenor  has  re- 
sented Laurel's  marriage  to  her  son,  Dick  Grosvenor. 
She  has  sneered  at  SteUa's  humble  sewing-shop  back- 
ground and  has  always  insisted  that  Laurel  could  never 
fit  into  the  socialite  life  of  the  Grosvenors  in  their  home 
on  Boston's  aristocratic  Beacon  Hill.  Nevertheless,  Stella 
encouraged  the  love  Laurel  and  Dick  felt  for  each  other, 
watched  it  grow  into  a  happy  marriage  despite  their 
different  backgrounds,  and  has  fought  to  preserve  this 
love  against  Mrs.  Grosvenor's  interference.  .  .  .  Stella 


Pictured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Stella  Dallas Anne  Elstner 

Laurel  Grosvenor Vivian  Smolen 

Dick  Grosvenor Bert  Cowlan 

Stanley  Warrick Alastair  Duncan 

Janice  Bennett Millicent  Brower 

Mrs.  Grosvenor Ara  Gerald 

Stella  Dallas  is  heard  over  NBC  Radio,  M-F,  at  4:15  P.M.  EDT, 
for   Bayer    Aspirin,    Phillips'    Milk   of   Magnesia,    other   products. 


2.  Laurel  had  turned  to  Stanley  because  of  Dick's  neglect 
and,  as  she  pleads  with  Stanley  to  confess  that  his  engage- 
ment is  a  joke,  Stella  fears  Stanley  nnay  give  away  the  plan. 


knows  that  Dick  and  Laurel  are  right  for  each  other,  but 
she  is  also  aware  of  Dick's  weakness — of  the  way  he  has 
always  followed  his  mother's  lead  and  has  never  been 
able  to  offer  her  any  strong  opposition.  His  marriage  to 
Laurel  had  been  Dick's  one  real  rebellion  against  Mrs. 
Grosvenor.  But,  since  the  marriage,  Dick  has  failed  to 
stand  up  to  his  mother's  constant  attacks  on  Laurel  and 
this  has  made  Laurel  confused  and  uncertain.  .  .  .  Thus, 
when  Stanley  Warrick  comes  along  to  pay  her  the 
compliments  and  attentions  which  Dick  has  neglected. 
Laurel  cannot  help  but  be  attracted  to  him.  Stanley's 
mother,  the  extremely  wealthy,  but  mentally  unbalanced 
Ada  Dexter,  adores  Laurel.  When  her  long-missihg  son, 
Stanley,  was  returned  to  her,  Ada  became  obsessed  with 
the  idea  of  Stanley's  marrying  Laurel,  thus,  in  effect, 
making  Laurel  her  daughter.  At  Ada's  suggestion,  Stan- 
ley began  to  pursue  Laurel,  and  Ada  had  been  overjoyed 
when  Stanley  actually  fell  deeply  in  love  with  Laurel — 
and  when  Laurel,  too,  seemed  to  share  his  feelings. 
.  .  .  But  Stella  has  seen  Laurel's  response  to  Stanley  for 
what  it  really  is — a  reaction  to  her  present  unha^jpiness 


60 


\^ir 


/ 


^ 


# 


s 


3.  Stellos  plan_  works  in  that  Laurel  end  Dick  return  together  to  the  Srosvenors'  Beacon  Hill  home,  but  Stella  con  see  that 
the  reconciliation  is  not  a  truly  happy  one.  Dick  cannot  resist  taunting  Laurel  over  the  manner  in  which  Stanley  seems  to 
have  toyed  with  her,  then  cast  her  aside,  and  Laurel  is  deeply  wounded  by  his  jibes  and  his  mother's  continued  hostility. 

See  Next  Pagem 


61 


4.  Laurel's  marriage  to  Dick  has  foundered  because  he  has 
failed  to  stand  up  for  her  against  his  socialite  nnother,  who 
has  always  felt  Laurel's  background  makes  her  "unsuitable." 


5.  Stella  learns  that  Laurel,  hurt  and  bewildered 
by  Dick's  attitude,  has  begun  to  see  Stanley  again. 
Heartsick,  Stella  fears  that  her  plan  may  backfire. 


(Continued) 


with  Dick.  Stella,  in  searching  frantically  for  a  way  to 
bring  Laurel  to  her  senses,  finally  found  an  ally  in  Janice 
Bennett,  a  young  sociaUte  who  had  been  a  customer  of 
Stella's  for  many  years.  Janice  suggested  that,  if  Stanley 
were  engaged  to  another  girl,  then  'Dick  would  no 
longer  be  jealous  and  Laurel  could  return  to  him.  .  .  . 
At  the  time,  this  seemed  hke  a  good  idea  to  Stella.  She 
had  challenged  Stanley  to  be  "man  enough"  to  leave 
Laurel  alone,  to  pretend  that  he  was  engaged  to  Janice 
so  that  Laurel  would  be  forced  to  try  to  forget  him  and 
resume  her  marriage  with  Dick.  Stanley,  convinced  that 
Laurel  really  loved  him  and  wanted  to  marry  him, 
agreed  with  the  plan — certain  it  would  only  prove  to 
Stella  that  Laurel's  feelings  for  him  are  genuine.  Laurel 
is  hurt  when  she  hears  of  the  engagement,  and  Dick  dis- 
appoints Stella  by  looking  upon  Laurel  condescendingly, 
simply  as  someone  with  whom  Stanley  toyed  for  a  while, 
then  cast  aside  when  he  met  Janice.  They  decide  on  a 
reconciliation,  but,  on  their  return  to  the  Beacon  Hill 
house,  Dick  mocks  Laurel  for  the  way  Stanley  has 
treated  her,  and  Mrs.  Grosvenor  puts  a  new  viciousness 
into  her  attacks  on  her  daughter-in-law.  ...  As  for  Ada 
Dexter,  she  is  furious  that  her  son  could  possibly  prefer 
someone  else  to  Laurel.  She  becomes  wilder  and  wilder, 
and — between  his  mother's  rage  and  Laurel's  obvious 
hurt — Stanley  is  tempted  to  reveal  that  his  engagement 
is  a  trick.  Only  his  promise  to  Stella  prevents  him.  .  .  . 
Then  Dick  and  Janice  meet — and  are  immediately 
attracted  to  each  other.  Janice,  who  finds  herself  falling 
in  love  with  Dick,  justifies  her  feelings  by  saying  that 


6.  At  the  sewing  shop,  Stella  is  shocked  as  Janice  tells 
her  that  she  loves  Dick  Grosvenor  and  that,  since  Laurel 
obviously  prefers  Stanley,  they  should  "switch  partners." 


62 


7.  As  Stanley  watches  S+elia,  Laurel  and  Dick  after  the  make-believe  engagement  has  been  revealed,  he  is  certain  that  now 
it  hos  been  proved  that  Laurel  really  loves  him.  But  Stella  is  convinced  that  only  stubborn  pride  keeps  Laurel  and  Dick  apart 
and  she  searches  frantically  for  a  way  to  avoid  a  divorce  and  then  a  re-moting  of  Stanley  and  Laurel,  Dick  and  Janice. 


Dick  and  Laurel  are  plainly  unhappy  together.  Mrs. 
Grosvenor  is  dehghted  about  Dick's  attentions  to  Janice 
— who,  to  Mrs.  Grosvenor's  mind,  is  much  more  suitable 
a  daughter-in-law  than  Laurel.  .  .  .  Stella  becomes  truly 
frantic,  but  she  still  refuses  to  allow  Stanley  to  tell 
Laurel  that  the  engagement  is  a  hoax.  She  pleads  with 
Stanley  to  do  something  to  straighten  out  the  tangle.  But 
it  is  Janice  who  comes  up  with  an  idea.  She  decides  that, 
since  she  wants  to  marry  Dick,  and  Laurel  wants  to 
marry  Stanley,  they  should  simply  "switch  partners." 
Laurel  and  Dick  can  be  divorced  and  then  she  and 
Dick,  Laurel  and  Stanley,  can  be  married.  Mrs.  Gros- 
venor is  overjoyed,  Ada  Dexter  is  beyond  herself  with 
delight,  Dick  is  easily  led  by  Janice  and,  to  Stanley,  it  is 
the  perfect  solution.  .  .  .  But  Stella  can  only  see  it  as  an 
immoral  plan  and  she  is  horrified  by  the  scheme.  Laurel 
is  stunned.  When  Stanley  declares  that  the  changing  of 
partners  is  actually  Stella's  idea,  Stella  denies  it  vigor- 


ously but  she  cannot  seem  to  stop  the  momentum  of 
Janice's  scheme.  .  .  .  Stella's  own  plan,  which  started  out 
as  an  attempt  to  reconcile  Dick  and  Laurel,  has  turned 
into  the  greatest  threat  to  Laurel's  happiness.  In  the 
past,  Stella  has  always  shown  wisdom  in  dealing  with 
people  and  particularly  in  raising  and  protecting  Laurel. 
Now  she  searches  desperately  for  a  solution  to  this 
present  confusion.  But  where  should  she  take  her  stand 
against  two  such  powerful  opponents  as  Ada  Dexter  and 
Mrs.  Grosvenor — and  against  such  a  wily  young  schemer 
as  Janice  Bennett?  What  action  can  Stella  take  to  help 
Dick  and  Laurel  as  they  persist  in  being  their  own  worst 
enemies?  How  can  Stella  help  without  being  called  "in- 
terfering"? .  .  .  Somehow,  in  some  manner,  Stella  knows 
that  she  must  find  a  way  to  make  Laurel's  life  once  again 
peaceful  and  happy  .  .  .  for,  as  with  all  mothers,  the 
happiness  of  her  child  is  the  greatest  happiness  Stella 
Dallas  could  ask  for  herself. 


63 


HE'S  A  BIG  BOY  NOW 


Julius  La  Rosa  has  grown  steadily 

with  his  fame — as  a  man,  as  well  as  a  star 


Julie  and   "his   girls,"   The    Debutones:   Left  to   right — 
Sherry  Ostrus,  Irene  Carroll,  Bix  Brent,  Connie  Desmond. 


By  IRA  H.  KNASTER 

You  HAVE  a  luncheon  date  with 
Julius  La  Rosa.  The  rendezvous  is 
for  half-past  noon,  at  his  office  on 
Madison  Avenue  in  the  Fifties. 
You  hop  into  a  taxi,  armed  v^rith  pen- 
cil, note  paper,  and  several  grains 
of  salt — this  latter  item  for  the 
reason  that  your  previous  impressions 
of  Julie  are,  shall  we  say,  mixed. 
They've  stemmed  mainly  from 
page-one  headlines  and  the  contra- 
dictory comments  of  this  young 
singer's  best  friends  and  his  severest 
critics. 

Being  the  painfully  prompt  type, 
you  arrive   (Continued  on  page  92) 

The  Julius  La  Rosa  Show  is  seen  on  CBS-TV, 
.M,W.F,  7:45  P.M.  EDT.  Julie  al.so  .stars  on 
TV's  Top  Tunes,  on  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  10  P.M. 
EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Liggett  &  Myers  To- 
iiacco   Company   for   Chesterfield   Cigarettes. 


Mixing  business  with  pleosure,  in  his  office  high  above   Madison   Avenue,   Julie  goes   over  scripts   and   scores  with 
manager  Frank  Barone  and  publicist  Beverly  Browning — and  plays  a  game  of  chess,  his  newest  enthusiasm,  with  Barone. 


Bob  Haymes,  who  has  his  own  shows  on  WCBS, 
helps  write  and  plan  Julie's  M-W-F  programs. 


At  home  with  his  parents,  Julie  enjoys  "the  greatest  cooking   in  the  world" — his  beloved  Mom's.    And  his  appetite 
for  reading  is  equally  great,  with  the  accent  on  history,   psychology,  philosophy  and  "books  on  religious  thought." 


HE'S  A  BIG  BOY  NOW 


Julius  La  Rosa  has  grown  steadily 

with  his  fame — as  a  man,  as  tvell  as  a  star 


Julie  and   "his  girls,"  The   Debutones:   Lett  to   right — 
Sherry  Ostrus,  Irene  Carroll.  Bix  Brent,  Connie  Desmond. 


By  IRA  H.  KNASTER 

You  HAVE  a  luncheon  date  with 
Julius  La  Rosa.  The  rendezvous  is 
for  half-past  noon,  at  his  office  on 
Madison  Avenue  in  the  Fifties. 
You  hop  into  a  taxi,  armed  with  pen- 
cil, note  paper,  and  several  grains 
of  salt — this  latter  item  for  the 
reason  that  your  previous  impressions 
of  Julie  are,  shall  we  say,  mixed. 
They've  stemmed  mainly  from 
page-one  headlines  and  the  contra- 
dictory comments  of  this  young 
singer's  best  friends  and  his  severest 
critics. 

Being  the  painfully  prompt  type, 
you  arrive   (Continued  on  page  92 ) 

The  Juliics  La  Rosa  Shoiv  is  seen  on  CBS-TV. 
M.W.F,  7:4.5  P.M.  EDT.  Julie  also  stars  on 
TVs  Top  Tunes,  on  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  10  P.M. 
EDT,  as  sponsored  by  Liggett  &  Myers  To- 
hacro  (■om|iany   for   Chesterfield   Cigarettes. 


Mixing  business  with  pleasure,  in  his  office  high  obove  Madison   Avenue,  Julie  goes  over  scripts  and   scores  with 
nnonaqer  Frank  Barone  and  publicist  Beverly  Browning— and  plays  a  gome  of  chess,  his  newest  enthusiasm,  with  Barone. 


Bob  Haymes,  who  has  his  own  shows  on  WCBS, 
helps  write  and  plan  Julie's  M-W-F  programs. 


At  home  with  his  parents,  Julie  enjoys  "the  greatest  cooking  in  the  world"— his  beloved  Mom's.    And  his  appetite 
for  reading  is  equally  great,  with  the  accent  on  history,  psychology,' philosophy  and  "books  on  religious  thought." 


Even  before  the  baby  came,  Lois  and  Morton  Hunt 
checked  college  catalogues  for  future  registration! 


Ihiiliililiiidi 


Nursery  furniture  was  a  more  immediate  problem,  so  they 
"scouted"  the  Liliputian  Bazaar  in  Best's  Fifth  Avenue  store. 


LOIS  HUNT'S  LULLABY 

It's  her  very  own  song,  to  her  very 
own  baby— the  high  note  of  a  singing 
life  which  has  unfolded  like  a  dream 

By  GLADYS  HALL 


SOMETIMES,  in  the  drama  of  daily  living,  there  are 
emotions  so  deep  that  they  can  be  expressed  only 
in  the  lines  of  the  greatest  poets  ...  such  lines  as: 
Happy,  he 

With  such  a  mother!   Faith  in  womankind 
Beats  with  his  hlood,  and  trust  in  all  things  high 
Comes  easy  for  him;  and  tho'  he  trip  and  fall 
He  shall  not  blind  his  soul  with  clay  .  .  . 
This  lovely  tribute  to  motherhood  appears  in  Tenny- 
son's "The  Princess"  .  .  .  and  also  on  the  title  page  of 
Lois  Hunt's  copy  of  Bahy  and  Child  Care,  by  Dr.  Ben- 
jamin Spock.    They   were   inscribed   there   by   Lois's 
husband,  magazine  writer  Morton  Hunt,  during  those 
ecstatic  months  when  Lois  and  Morton  were  awaiting 
the  birth  of  their  first  child.    To  them,  Morton  added 


this  tribute  of  his  own:  "And  who  ever  thought  that 
the  girl  I  love  would  be — somebody's  mother?" 

"Mort,"  Lois  observes,  "always  finds  the  appropriate 
thing  to  say,  at  the  appropriate  time,  and  his  postscript 
to  Tennyson's  lines  was  especially  apt.  After  being 
married  for  eight  and  a  half  years — and  no  baby — who 
would  have  thought  .  .  .  !"  Her  brilliant  brown  eyes 
widen  at  the  wonder  of  it  all. 

"Actually,  Mort  was  not  surprised,"  she  laughs,  "not 
the  least  bit.  I  was  not  obliged  to  whisper  my  sweet 
secret  into  his  reddening  ear.  Nor  was  it  revealed  to 
him  by  the  unexpected  sight  of  me  knitting  a  tiny 
garment — I  didn't  knit  any,  because  everything  I  knit 
turns  out  to  be  a  scarf!  We  knew  the  wonderful  truth 
even  before  the  doctor  told  us.    That  made  it  nice, 


66 


Continued 


> 


Lois  can't  knit  well,   but  Robert  Q.  Lewis,   her  boss,   is  a  whiz 
with  the  needles  and  offered  to  help  with  the  "tiny  garments." 


As  Lois  continued  working  on  his  shows,  bachelor 
Bob  mode  sure  she  got  plenty  of  milk  and  vitamins. 


Morton  and  Lois  don't  ogree  with  Shakespeare!   They  think  there's  a  lot  in  a  name  and  compiled  quite  a  list — just  in  case. 


Both  took  the   Red  Cross  course  for  parents- 
to-be,  conducted  by  Elizabeth  J.  Tlernan,  R.N. 


LOIS  HUNT'S  LULLABY 

{Continued) 


too  .  .  .  made  the  secret — for  a  time,  at  least — ours  alone. 
The  important  thing  for  us  is  that,  when  we  were  first  mar- 
ried, we  both  felt  the  same  way  about  having  a  baby  .  .  .  not 
feeling  secure  enough,  since  our  professions  are  both  so  un- 
predictable. Then  we  both  matured  at  the  same  time  and 
wanted  a  baby  so  much  that  this  has  been  a  very  happy  time 
indeed. 

"Everyone  has  been  happy  about  it  .  .  .  very  much  including 
Robert  Q.  Lewis,  who  had  been  teasing  Jaye  P.  Morgan  and 
me  for  months,  asking  one  of  us — ^preferably  both — to  please 
have  a  baby!  When  I  told  him  that  I  was,  he  was  just 
delighted,  tickled  pink.  He  started  knitting  tiny  garments," 
Lois  laughs.  "Actually,  he  just  took  needles  and  wool  in 
hand  as  a  gag  for  the  photographers.  But  Robert  Q.  really 
can  knit,  he  does  knit,  and  he  promised  me  'a  dozen  hand- 
knit  diapers'  .  .  .  which,  I  must  reproalchfuUy  add,  have  not — 
unlike  the  baby — been  delivered  as  yet! 

"In  any  other  medium  in  which  I've  ever  worked — in  opera, 
on  the  concert  stage — I  would  have  been  obliged  to  quit  in 
the  fifth  month  of  my  pregnancy,  because  of  the  demands 
which  opera  and  concert  make  upon  my  voice.  On  any  other 
television  show  except  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  I  probably 
would  not  have  been  welcome  after  the  fifth  month.  But 
Robert  Q. — feeling  the  way  he  did — made  it  cozy  and  com- 
fortable  for  me  to  go  on  working  up  to  a  very  few  weeks 
before  my  confinement.  His  show  is  a  family  type  of  show, 
anyway,  and  the  audience  realizes  it,  feeling  that  they,  too,  are 
part  of  the  family.  This  was  proven  to  me  in  the  warmest, 
friendliest  way.  After  Robert  Q.  announced  on  the  air  that 
Morton  arid  I  were  expecting  an  addition  to  our  family,  I 
received  literally  thousands  of  cards  and  was  up  to  here  in 
bootees!  {Continued  on  page  94) 


The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F,  2  P.M.  EDT,  is  spon- 
sored by  Helene  Curtis  Industries  (Spray  Net,  Lanolin  Discovery,  Sham- 
poo Plus  Egg),  Miles  Laljoratories, Inc.  (makers  of  Alka-Seltzei') ,  General 
Mills  (Betty  Crocker  Cake  Mixes),  Johnson's  Wax,  Mazola,  Viceroy 
Cigarettes,  and  other  products.  The  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show,  heard  on  CBS 
Radio,  Sat.,  II  A.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Perma-Starch,  S-7,  and  others. 


Required  reading  for  the  Hunts:  Baby  and  Child  Care — the  book  which  Morton  lovingly  inscribed  to  Lois  in  the  days 
of  waiting.     They  really  had  fun  decorating  the  nursery,  and  Lois  proved  her  theories  about  chic  "maternity"  styles. 


k 


68 


A  Very  Good  Neighbor 

{Continued  jrom  page  30) 
in  this  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  Dennis 
is  probably  the   only   emcee   in  television 
who   invariably    gets    a    big   hand   for    his 
Bromo-Seltzer  commercials. 

One  reason  for  Dennis'  infectious  good 
nature  and  superb  salesmanship  is  his 
complete  sincerity  and  warmth.  He  ob- 
viously enjoys  hirnself  fully  as  much  as  his 
audience,  and  he  becomes  completely  ab- 
sorbed in  whatever  he  does.  For  instance, 
to  this  day  he  recalls  as  his  toughest  as- 
signment one  given  to  him  a  couple  of 
years  after  the  war.  when  he  had  to  meet 
a  boat  returning  from  Europe  with  six 
hundred  war  dead.  It  was  the  kind  of 
beautiful  spring  day  on  which  he'd  nor- 
mally have  felt  like  jumping  with  the  sheer 
joy  of  Uving.  But,  once  aboard  ship,  he 
became  terribly  saddened  and  depressed 
by  the  thought  of  his  buddies  in  the  hold 
going  to  a  final  resting  place  in  American 
soil.  Under  the  circumstances,  he  couldn't 
comment  on  the  beauties  of  the  New  York 
skyline  coming  into  view,  on  the  bustle 
of  the  harbor,  the  bright  blue  of  the  sky. 
or  the  deeper  tone  of  the  sea.  He  was  be- 
fore mike  and  camera  for  an  hour  and  a 
half,  and— when  it  was  over — felt  limp 
and  drained  of  all  energy.  Though  he's 
since  been  on  many  telethons  on  behalf 
of  the  United  Cerebral  Palsy  Association 
— for  sixteen  hours  straight— he  considers 
the  other  by  far  the  hardest  task  he's 
ever  had  to  tackle. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  most  fun  he's  ever 
had  was  when  he  used  to  handle  the  com- 
mentary on  wrestling  bouts,  which  were 
the  steady  fare  of  early  TV  programming. 
Knowing  next  to  nothing  about  the  sport, 
he  got  himself  a  manual,  brushed  up  on 
some  of  the  terms,  and  then  proceeded  to 
address  himself  to  an  audience  who  pre- 
sumably knew  even  less  about  wrestling 
than  he  did — the  American  housewife.  In 
line  with  his  bent  for  keeping  his  chatter 
direct  and  warm,  he  picked  out  one  house- 
wife particularly  dear  to  his  heart — his 
mother,  explaining  to  her  what  w^as  going 
on  in  the  ring.  This  approach  brought  him 
a  vast  new  public,  a  good  deal  of  money, 
and  enduring  fame. 

Also,  during  this  period,  Dermis  devel- 
oped his  technique  of  on-the-spot  rhym- 
ing. This  had  its  origin  when  a  wres- 
tler by  the  name  of  Gino  Garibaldi  was 
thrown  clear  of  the  ring  by  his  opponent. 
"He's  been  thrown  out,  but  he'll  come 
back — and,  when  he  does,  their  heads  will 
crack,"  Dennis  commented,  and  he  was 
almost  instantly  rewarded  by  seeing  his 
prediction  come  true. 

His  rhymed  narration  soon  became  im- 
mensely popular,  but  poetry  backfired 
when  a  wrestler  named  Tarzan  Hewitt 
didn't  Uke  the  terse  verse:  "Look  at  the 
suet  on  Tarzan  Hewitt."  Tarzan  later 
sneaked  up  on  Dennis  and  put  a  hammer - 
lock  on  him  that  nearly  broke  his  arm. 

Dennis,  never  one  to  run  away  from  a 
fight,  retaliated  by  further  taunts.  Soon 
a  regular  feud  developed  between  them 
and — as  a  consequence — matrons  by  the 
hundreds  began  attending  wrestling 
matches  in  person,  armed  with  baseball 
bats  and  frying  pans.  Dennis  has  referred 
to  them  as  his  private  '"Housewives'  Pro- 
tective League." 

The  affection  with  which  millions  of 
women  regard  Dennis  James,  "every- 
body's favorite  neighbor,"  has  little  to  do 
with  his  wavy  hair  and  good  looks  but 
seems  to  be  the  result  of  some  special  ap- 
peal that  has  wrought  its  charm  ever  since 
he  was  in  his  cradle.  While  both  Dennis 
and  his  mother  stoutly  deny  that  he  was 
the  family  favorite,  there  is  at  least  cir- 
cumstantial evidence  that  he  was  on  the 


ill  really  lovely  to  love? 


...Ts  there  an        ' 
J-  # 

air  of  freshness 
about  you . . .  always  ? 


You'll  be  fresh  as  a  daisy,  even  on  hot  humid 
days— when  you  use  Fresh  Cream  Deodorant! 
Prove  it  to  yourself  this  way : 

Buy  a  jar  of  Fresh  today.  Use  Fresh  under 
one  arm  and  continue  your  present  deodorant 
under  the  other  arm  for  a  few  days. 

See  for  yourself  which  prevents  odor  best 
—keeps  underarms  drier— protects  clothing 
better  .  .  .  makes  you  sure  you  have  an  air 
of  freshness  always. 

iJ^l£^    is  a  registered  trademark  of  Pharma-Craf  t  Corporation. 
Also  manxifactured  and  distributed  in  Canada. 


"Jfleih  is  extra  effective — contains  the 
most  eflfective  perspiration-checking 
ingredient  known.  Gentle  to  skin  .  .  . 
creamy  smooth,  not  sticky  or  greasy. 
Delicately  fragrant.  Use  daily. 


a  fflJlAt^  girl  is  always  lovely  to  love 


69 


receiving  end  of  plenty  of  love  and  af- 
fection. He  was  the  baby  of  the  Sposa  fam- 
ily, the  youngest  of  three  sons  born  to 
Teresa  and  Demetrio  Sposa.  His  father 
immigrated  from  Italy  as  a  boy,  settled  in 
Jersey  City,  New  Jersey,  started  out  as  a 
carpenter's  helper,  worked  himself  up  to 
become  a  contractor,  and  has  since  retired 
on  his  savings  to  live  in  Florida.  He  takes 
great  pride  in  having  been  able  to  send 
Dennis  through  college. 

Dennis'  mother  recalls  how  all  the 
neighbors  used  to  oh-and-ah  when  she 
wheeled  him  down  the  street.  "He  was  a 
beautiful  baby,"  she  says.  "Never  gave  us 
a  minute  of  trouble." 

There  wasn't  too  much  money  around 
the  house  when  Dennis  was  a  child,  and  he 
learned  early  that  he  had  to  work  for  his 
spending  money.  But  that  never  was  very 
difficult  for  Dennis,  who  seems  to  have 
been  born  with  the  knack  for  making 
friends.  Making  deliveries  for  Tony's  meat 
market  in  the  neighborhood,  Dennis'  smile 
and  his  helpfulness  earned  him  a  rich  har- 
vest in  tips,  cookies,  and  general  good  will. 
"Dennis  was  the  best  boy  who's  ever 
worked  for  me,"  says  Tony  Cantrella,  his 
old  ex-boss.  "He  brought  lots  of  cus- 
tomers into  the  store."  Aside  from  deliv- 
ering meat,  Dennis  could  always  be 
counted  on  to  climb  through  narrow  win- 
dows when  Mrs.  Murphy  had  locked  herself 
out  of  the  house,  to  rescue  Mrs.  Poletti's 
baby  from  a  deserted  cellar,  or  to  lend  a 
hand  with  a  heavy  laundry  basket. 

A  little  later,  Dennis  found  another  way 
to  earn  his  allowance.  A  husky  youngster 
with  good  coordination  and  lightning  re- 
flexes, he  develooed  considerable  skill  with 
his  fists  at  the  "Y."  When  he  was  asked  to 
fill  in  a  card  at  a  local  boxing  club  one 
Saturday  evening,  he  won  the  bout  and 
was  given  a  stale  cake  for  a  prize.  "When 
I  brought  it  home.  Dad  gave  me  another 
workout,"  Dennis  recalls  with  a  smile.  "He 
was  very  disappointed  that  I  should  have 
so  little  sense  as  to  let  myself  be  knocked 
around  for  nothing  but  a  stale  cake.  He 
didn't  calm  down  till  I  had  a  chance  to  cut 
it  open  and  show  him  the  twenty-dollar 
bill  inside  it.  The  cake  was  just  to  protect 
my  amateur  standing."  In  college,  Dennis 
subsequently  became  middleweight  box- 
ing champion. 

Planning  to  become  a  doctor,  Dennis  at- 
tended St.  Peter's  College,  in  Jersey  City, 
as  a  pre-med  student  and,  upon  graduation, 
won  admission  to  a  medical  school.  How- 
ever, being  a  doctor  wasn't  what  Dennis 
really  wanted.  All  through  his  school  years, 
he'd  been  extremely  active  in  amateur 
theatricals,  debating  clubs  and  similar 
projects,  and  he  felt  a  terrific  urge  to  get 
before  a  microphone  and  make  his  living 
by  talking  to  people,  instead  of  doctoring 


them.  Nowadays,  whenever  he  feels  a 
twinge  of  regret  that  he  didn't  become  a 
doctor,  he  consoles  himself  with  the 
thought  that  he  probably  contributes  as 
much  to  keeping  millions  of  people  well  by 
making  them  smile  as  he  would  by  treat- 
ing a  few  hundred  patients. 

As  for  his  dramatic  urge,  Dennis  freely 
admits  that  he's  been  something  of  a  ham 
as  far  back  at  he  can  remember.  "Nobody 
ever  had  to  egg  me  on  to  do  my  stuff,"  he 
says.  "Even  in  grammar  school,  I  used  to 
recite  long  poems  at  the  drop  of  a  buskin. 
One  of  my  standbys  was  'Over  the  Hill  to 
the  Poorhouse.'  I'd  get  down  on  my  knees 
and  really  emote.  And  I  wasn't  satisfied 
unless  I  could  wring  a  few  tears  out  of  the 
mothers  in  the  audience." 

Tears,  along  with  smiles,  are  still  part  of 
many  of  Dennis'  shows.  People  win  jack- 
pots on  other  give-away  shows  without 
biirsting  out  crying,  but  there's  something 
in  the  way  Dennis  brings  out  a  story  of 
sorrow,  heartache  and  need  that  invariably 
moves  viewers  and  participants  alike  to 
tears.  Dennis  likes  people,  and  his  gen- 
uine kindliness  and  concern  make  them 
respond  in  kind.  "Oh,  you're  just  grand," 
is  the  way  one  elderly  lady  spontaneously 
put  it  the  other  day,  after  winning  two 
thousand  dollars  in  On  Your  Account — 
and  before  bursting  into  tears  of  gratitude. 
And  Dennis'  heavy  fan  mail  echoes  this 
sentiment. 

It  was,  perhaps  characteristically,  a 
woman.  Miss  Bernice  Judis — then  the 
fabulous  manager  of  the  New  York's  fabu- 
lously successful  independent  Station 
WNEW — who  gave  Dennis  his  first  break 
in  big-time  radio.  Also  characteristically, 
it  was  the  result  of  a  fluff  which  he'd 
turned  into  a  joke. 

Though  still  planning  officially  to  enter 
medical  school  in  the  fall,  Dennis  took  a 
course  in  radio  announcing  at  an  evening 
school  in  New  York  during  the  summer 
following  his  graduation  from  college. 
Diuring  the  day,  in  order  to  meet  expenses, 
he  worked  as  a  salesman  for  Abercrombie 
&  Fitch.  Both  of  his  intended  careers,  inci- 
dentally, were  almost  shelved  by  his  suc- 
cess in  this  job.  Discovering  a  "sleeper" 
in  a  theretofore  slow-moving  item — an 
infra-red  lamp  used  to  destroy  ticks,  fleas 
and  other  vermin  on  pets — he  became  so 
impressed  with  the  lamp's  possibilities  that 
he  sold  a  hundred  of  them  in  one  day. 
Equally  impressed,  the  manufacturer 
hired  him  as  assistant  sales  manager  at  a 
salary  of  $125  a  week  plus  $100  for  ex- 
penses— a  pretty  fair  haul  for  a  kid  fresh 
out  of  college,  especially  in  the  lean  days 
of  1938.  Nevertheless,  shortly  thereafter, 
when  he  was  offered  a  chance  to  do  a  disc- 
jockey show  on  Jersey  City's  WAAT, 
Dennis  unhesitatingly  bade  adieu  to  both 


OCTOBER'S  "BETTER  HALF " 

Femme  stars  shine  brightly  in  our  next  feature-filled,   picture-packed   issue: 

ARLENE  FRANCIS  •  ROSEMARY  CLOONEY  •   KATHY  GODFREY 

JEAN   HAGEN   of  The  Danny  Thomas  Show 

MARION   RANDALL  of  Valiant  Lady 

ROSEMARY  DeCAMP  of  The  Bob  Cummings  Show 

PEG  LYNCH  of  Ethel  and  Albert  (ALAN  BUNCE  is  "the  other  half."  of  course) 

OCTOBER 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR      •      on  sale  September  6 


70 


medicine    and    sales    as    possible    careers. 

"I  was  scared  to  tell  my  parents  about 
my  decision,"  he  recalls.  "They'd  made  so 
many  sacrifices  to  send  me  through  col- 
lege, and  I  knew  they  had  their  hearts  set 
on  my  becoming  a  doctor.  I  hated  to  dis- 
appoint them.  It  shows  what  wonderful 
people  they  are  that  they  raised  no  ob- 
jections. 'If  that's  what  you  want  to  do, 
go  ahead,'  Dad  said.  'I'll  do  all  I  can  to 
help  you.' " 

Dennis,  as  it  turned  out,  didn't  need  any 
help.  Though  he  took  the  job  at  WAAT  at 
no  pay,  he  soon  acquired  sponsors,  came 
to  the  attention  of  Miss  Judis  during  his 
first  season,  and  transferred  to  WNEW  the 
following  spring.  He  was  earning  a  very 
nice  living  indeed,  for  a  young  man,  when 
he  was  hit  by  the  television  bug.  A  total 
of  only  some  three  hundred  sets,  all  of 
them  experimental,  were  in  existence  at 
the  time.  For  Dennis,  television  in  those 
days  meant  a  lot  of  hard  work  at  very 
little  money.  But  he  was  fascinated  by  the 
medium,  had  enough  vision  to  foresee  its 
possibilities,  and  was  determined  to  stay 
with  it.  Today  he  is  less  proud  of  having 
been  one  of  the  first  men  to  appear  before 
a  television  camera  than  of  the  fact  that 
he's  still  around  and  going  strong. 

"Being  a  pioneer  is  all  very  well,"  he 
says,  "but  their  usual  fate  is  to  fall  by  the 
wayside,  once  a  new  thing  gets  going  and 
the  big  boys  come  in.  The  trick  is  simply 
to  'stay  alive,'  especially  in  a  medium  as 
insecure  and  fickle  as  television." 

Despite  a  considerable  income,  continu- 
ing popularity  and  the  unabated  demand 
for  his  services  by  sponsors  and  networks, 
Dennis  admits  that  he  is  aware  of  the  con- 
stant pressure  and  doesn't  feel  completely 
secure  to  this  day.  "Success  in  this  busi- 
ness depends  on  too  many  factors  beyond 
your  control,"  he  explains.  "You  never 
know  what  is  going  to  happen  from  one 
thirteen-week  period  to  the  next.  People 
read  about  fabulous  contracts,  but  they  fail 
to  realize  that  these  bind  only  the  per- 
former, not  the  network.  Once  you  feel 
you've  got  it  made,  that's  when  you  usu- 
ally  start   sliding." 

While  Dennis  is  aware  of  the  pitfalls, 
he  has,  nevertheless,  the  happy  faculty  of 
not  letting  it  worry  him.  "I'm  doing  the 
best  I  can  each  day,  six  days  a  week.  That's 
all  anybody  can  do.  Once  you  allow  your- 
self to  be  upset  by  the  constant  pressure, 
you're  liable  to  wind  up  in  the  hospital." 

One  reason  for  Dennis'  relative  peace  of 
mind  is  his  matchless  versatility.  With  the 
exception  of  conjuring,  there's  practically 
nothing  he  hasn't  done — and  done  well — 
before  the  TV  cameras,  from  straight  com- 
mercials to  straight  drama.  Another,  and 
perhaps  a  far  more  powerful  reason, 
though,  is  his  exceptionally  happy  mar- 
riage. 

The  story  of  how  he  met  his  wife  Micki, 
in  Florida,  while  he  was  recuperating  from 
a  throat  operation  and  unable  to  talk — 
forced  to  rely  exclusively  on  scribbled 
notes  and  a  subtropical  moon — has  been 
told  often.  Begun  in  silence,  their  romance 
has  grown  into  serene  contentment  at 
having  found  each  other  and  being  at 
peace  with  the  world. 

Micki,  the  former  Marjorie  Crawford, 
is  a  beautiful  and  sensitive  girl  who  tends 
to  be  quiet  and  retiring,  while  Dennis  is 
outgoing  and  hearty.  During  the  three 
and  a  half  years  of  their  marriage,  both 
have  made  compromises  and  achieved  a 
happy  balance.  As  Dennis  puts  it,  "We 
each  try  to  consider  the  other's  happiness 
first." 

Micki,  who  used  to  be  a  commercial  ar- 
tist, is  a  talented  painter  who  has  sparked 
Dennis'  interest  in  painting  to  where  it  is 
now  his  most  absorbing  hobby.  They  paint 
on  a  double  easel  in  a  spacious  studio  on 
the  second  floor  of  their  home  overlooking 


Long  Island  Sound,  in  New  Rochelle,  New 
York.  And  that  beautiful  house  of  theirs 
is  another  enthusiastic  interest  they  share. 
Still  others  including:  Taking  and  editing 
films,  for  which  Dennis  supplies  the  nar- 
ration; boating;  and  their  two-year-old 
boxer.  Candy.  Dennis  also  does  a  lot  of 
wood-working  with  power  tools,  following 
plans  designed  by  Micki. 

Micki,  on  the  other  hand,  has  learned 
to  take  in  her  stride  aU  that's  required  of 
the  wife  of  a  man  who's  as  famovis,  popular 
and  successful  as  Dennis.  A  superb  hostess 
in  her  own  home,  she's  equally  gracious 
and  charming  at  a  party  or  reception  given 
by  others  and  has  no  difficulty  mixing  with 
people  in  aU  walks  of  life. 

The  Jameses  have  no  children  of  then- 
own  as  yet,  but  have  virtually  adopted 
thousands  of  others — the  unfortunate  vic- 
tims of  cerebral  palsy.  Dennis  became 
aware  of  the  problem  almost  accidentally, 
when  he  was  asked  to  pose  for  a  publicity 
photo  on  behalf  of  the  United  Cerebral 
Palsy  Association.  Holding  the  quivering 
body  of  a  spastic  little  girl  in  his  arms  did 
something  to  him.  From  that  moment  on, 
he's  given  unstintingly  of  his  time  and 
energy  to  help  raise  funds  necessary  for 
the  long  and  costly  retraining  and  rehabili- 
tation of  afflicted  youngsters.  Over  the  past 
couple  of  years,  he's  presided  over  more 
than  a  dozen  telethons,  each  lasting  for 
sixteen  uninterrupted  hours.  And,  while 
Dennis  is  before  the  cameras,  Micki  is  at 
the  switchboard,  sparing  herself  no  less 
than  her  husband  does.  "The  biggest  re- 
ward we  have,"  Dennis  says,  "is  to  hear  a 
little  girl  talk,  who  a  year  before  could 
only  stammer — or  see  a  Uttle  boy  walk, 
who  couldn't  get  out  of  his  wheelchair  be- 
fore." 

Another  share  of  the  unspent  love  in 
their  hearts  goes  to  their  dog.  Candy,  who 
was  given  them  by  Dennis'  brother,  Lou. 
"Candy  was  the  runt  of  the  litter,"  Micki 
relates.  "Lou  couldn't  understand  why  we 
wanted  her  instead  of  one  of  the  other, 
sturdier  pups.  She  was  so  puny,  weak  and 
trembling  tiiey  called  her  Shaky.  Maybe 
that's  why  Dennis  and  I  fell  in  love  with 
her.  Today,  she's  a  real  beauty,  though, 
and  the  gentlest  dog  aUve." 

"And  the  smartest  one,  too,"  Dennis 
adds.  "That  dog  seems  to  vmderstand 
everything,  even  spelling.  She'll  obey 
speUed-out  commands,  as  well  as  words." 

The  Jameses  have  many  friends  whom 
they  love  to  entertain.  Closest  among  them 
are  the  Herb  Shriners,  who  are  neigh- 
bors and  also  live  in  a  house  at  the  water's 
edge.  When  they  want  to  drop  in  on  each 
other  for  a  neighborly  visit,  they  take  the 
boat.  "It's  a  little  complicated,  when  you 
just  want  to  borrow  a  couple  of  eggs  and 
a  cup  of  sugar,  but  it's  fun,"  Micki  says. 

For  a  long  time,  boating  has  been  one 
of  Dennis'  great  passions,  and  it's  one  Micki 
has  learned  to  appreciate  in  turn.  During 
the  summer,  they  spend  much  of  their 
leisure  time  cruising  on  the  water,  and 
this  summer  Dennis  even  considered  com- 
muting to  town  by  boat,  instead  of  train. 

Still  a  young  man  despite  his  sixteen 
years  in  television,  Dennis  isn't  apt  to  give 
much  thought  to  the  future.  He  likes  what 
he's  doing  and  hopes  to  keep  busy  at  it 
for  a  long  time  to  come.  Though  retire- 
ment seems  to  be  a  long  way  ofE,  Dennis 
and  Micki  have  still  given  it  some  thought. 
"Micki  and  I,  we're  really  both  small-town 
folks  at  heart,"  Dennis  says.  "We  have  our 
eyes  on  a  nice  spot  in  Florida.  Someday, 
that's  going  to  be  home  for  us." 

With  all  their  interests  to  keep  them 
b\isy,  chances  are  they  won't  get  bored. 
But,  when  they  do  pack  up  and  head 
South,  TV  won't  be  the  same  any  more. 
Not  without  "everybody's  favorite  neigh- 
bor." 


a  world  of  ENTERTAINMENT! 


GARBO  to  MONROE 


BING  to  GARY  CROSBY 


BENNY  to  GOBEL 


TUCKER  to  CLOONEY 


STARLAND 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


Picture-packed,  star-studded  STARLAND  takes 
you  into  the  Show  Business  World — 
MOVIES.  TV.  RADIO  and  RECORDS 

158  Biographies,  274  intimate  Pictures, 
174  Stories  of  Your  Favorites,  Latest 
News   Events  in  the   Show   Business   World 


YOU'LL  SEE  STARS! 

Harry  Belafonte 
Jaye  P.  Morgan 
Clark  Gable 
Mary  Martin 
Sannmy  Davis  Jr. 


Judy  Holliday 
Humphrey  Bogart 
Eartha  Kitt 
Eddie  Arnold 
Sheree  North 


If  STARLAND  is  not  avail- 
able at  your  newsstand,  please 
mail  this  coupon  and  50^ 


I MAIL  COUPON  TODAY j 

STARLAND  RM-955 

205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postoaid,  a  copy  of  STARLAND. 
I  enclose  50c. 


Name. 


Please    Print 


Address. 


City. 


.State. 


71 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Daylight  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 
Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Local  Program 

John  MacVane 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 
News,  Cecil  Brown 
9:35  Easy  Does  It 
(con.) 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

10:45 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peato 
One  Man's  FamUj? 
Second  CItance 

Break  The  Bank 

Cecil  Brown 

Guest  Time* 
News 

10:35  Johnny 
Olsen  Show 

My  True  Story 

10:25  Whispering 
Streets 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:00 

11:15 

11:30 
11:45 

Strike  it  Rich 

Plirase  That  Pajs 
Fibber  McGee  & 
Molly 

Mutual  Morning 

11:25  Holland  Engle 
Oueen  For  A  Day 

*Wed.,   Faith   In 
Our  Time 

Companion- 
Dr.  Mace 
Paging  The  New 

Albert  Warner,  News 
Your  Neighbor's 
Voice 

Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 
Second  Husband 

Afternoon    Programs 


12:00 

Noon  News 
12:05  Down  At 

Valentino 

Wendy  Warren  & 
The  News 

12:15 

Holmesy's 

Frank  Farrell 

Backstage  Wife 

12:30 

Helen  Trent 

12:45 

Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 

News,  Cedric  Foster 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

Road  Of  Life 

1:15 

Luncheon  At  Sardi's 

Ted  Malone 

Ma  Perkins 

1:30 

Pauline  Frederick 

Letter  To  Lee 

Young  Dr.  Malone 

1:45 

Graham 

The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 

Luncheon  With 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 

2:15 

Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 

Perry  Mason 

2:30 

Hayes 

Martin  Block 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 

2:45 

The  Brighter  Day 

3:00 

News 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Linkletter's  House 

3:15 

3:05  WoR^erfur  City 

Party 

3:30 

Spotlight  Storw 
Just  Plain  Bill) 

Fred  Rabbins  Show 

3:45 

4:00 

Right  To  Happiness 

Bruce  &  Dan 

Broadway  Matinee 

4:15 

Stella  Dallas 

4:30 

Young  Widder  Brown 

Tex  Fletcher's 

Chautauqua  Student 

Treasury   Bandstand 

4:45 

Pepper  Young's 

Wagon  Show 

Symphony,  Mon.; 

Family 

Treasury  Band- 
stand, Tues.-Fri. 

4:55  News 

5:00 

Woman  in  My  House 

Sgt.  Preston 

Musical  Express 

5:15 

Lorenzo  Jones 

Bobby  Hammack 

5:30 

Lone  Ranger 

Bobby  Benson 

Gloria  Parker 

5:45 

5:55  Dan'l  Boone 

America's  Business 
5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Vincent  Lopez 

6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


6:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Monday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier,  Man 

On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's   Family 


Your  Land  And  Mine 
Berkshire  Festival 


Telephone  Hour 


Band  Of  America 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Hollywood   Bowl 

Concerts 


Evening  Programs 


ABC  Reporter 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Top  Secret  Files 
Broadway  Cop 


News,  Lyie  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Reporters'  Roundup 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Orchestra 
Distinguished  Artists 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,    News 

Quincy  Howe 

Strange 

Saga 

7:55  News 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Voice  Of  Firestone 


Music  Tent 


9:25  News 
Freedom  Sings 

9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Martha  Lou  Harp 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer 
Of  Lost  Persons 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 


Rosemary  Clooney 


Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Tuesday 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


NBC 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening   Programs 

MBS  ABC 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Biographies   In 
Sound 


9:55  News 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Heart  Of  The  News 
New  England  Survey 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 


John  Steele, 
Adventurer 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05   Footnotes  To 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Army  Hour 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Men's  Corner 
Dance  Music 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrovi 


Red  Benson's 
Hideaway 

8:25   News 

Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Music  Show 
9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 
News 

Platterbrains 

9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Take  Thirty 


CBS 
Jackson  &  The  Netl 

Lowell  Thomas 


Suspense 

8:25  Doug  Edward 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Bobbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 


Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Mus 
Hall 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Wednesday 


Evening  Programs 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


6:00 
8:15 


8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Conversation 


News 

8:35  College  Quiz 
Bowl 


Best  Of  Groucho 

Truth  Or 
Consequences 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


1:00 


8:15 
8:30 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


8:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Heart  Of  The  News 
Keys  To  The  Capital 


Thursday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Jr. 


True  Detective 


Sentenced 


News,  LyIe  Van 
Spotlight  Story 
Family  Theater 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Oif  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Roy  Rogers 


Dr.  Six  Gun 


News 

9:05  X  Minus  One 


The  Loser 
9:55  News 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Joseph  C.  Harsch 
Jane  Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Virgil   Pinkley 

Sounding  Board 

Evening 

Local  Program 


Bill  stern,  Sports 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hideaway  (con.) 

8:55  News 


Music  Show 
9:25  News 
President's  News 
Conference 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Behind  The  Iron 

Curtain 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official  Detective 
I  Am  Brady  Kaye 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Virgil   Pinkley 

Book  Hunter 
Henry  Jerome  Orch. 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Behind  Iron  Curtain 
Relaxin'  Time 

Programs 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Jackson  &  The  Nevf 
Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


8:25  Doug  Edwardsf 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


I 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Mus 
Hall 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Strange 
Saga 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Music  Show 


9:25  News 
Rhythm  On  Parade 


9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Front  &  Center 


Scoreboard 

10:05  Newsmakers! 

Presidential  Report 


Jackson  &  The  Nei^ 
Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 
Ernie 

Edward  R.  Murrowi 


The  Whistler 

8:25  Doug  Edward; 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 


Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Mus 
Hall 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


National   Radio 
Fan  Club 


Radio  Fan  Club 
(con.) 


Ted  Heath  Orch. 
Stars  In  Action 


Evening   Programs 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Counter-Spy 
City  Editor 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05   Footnotes  To 
History 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Forbes   Report 

London  Studios 

Melodies 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Music  Show 

A  Treasury  Of  Music 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Indoors  Unlimited 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Jackson  8i  The  Neii 


Lowell   Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Godfrey  Digest 

8:25  Doug  Edward) 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Mu 
Hall 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


UBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Moi 

•:30 
8:45 

■nlng  Programs 

world  News             Local  Proeram 
Roundup                1 

Doug  Browning 
Show 

News 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Farming  Business 
Monitor 

No  School 
Today 

News  Of  America 
Farm  News 

Garden  Gate 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 
10:45 

Monitor 

American  Travel 
Guide 

No  School 
Today  (con.) 

Breakfast  Club 

Review 
10:55  News 

News 

10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

10:55  News 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 
11:45 

Monitor 

Lucky  Pierre 

Johnny  Desmond 

Show 
11:55  Young  Living 

11 :05  Half-Pint 

Panel 
All  League  Club- 
;     house 

9 

Robert  Q.  Lewis 
Show 

Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

National    Farm   & 
Home  Hour 

Monitor 

1  Asked  You 

Tex  Fletcher 
Wagon  Show 

News                         Noon  News 
12:05  How  To  Fix  It  12:05  Romance 
101    Ranch  Boys 
American  Farmer       Gunsmoke 

Monitor 

Fifth  Army  Band 
Ruby  Mercer 

News                         City  Hospital 
1:05  Navy  Hour         1:25  News,  Jackson 
Vincent  Lopez            Stan  Daugherty 
Presents 

2:00  Monitor 

2:15 

2:30 

2:45 

Ruby  Mercer  (con.) 
2:25  News 
Sports  Parade 

News                         Dance  Orchestra 
2:05  Festival,  with 
Milton  Cross          Jazz  Band  Ball 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Monitor 

Country  Jamboree 

News 

3:05  Festival  con- 
tinues with 
Chautauqua 
Symphony 

String  Serenade 
Skinnay  Ennis  Orch. 

4:00 

4:15 

4:30 
4:45 

Monitor 

Bandstand,  U.SJt. 

News 

4:05  Festival  (con.) 

Treasury  Show 

5:00 

5:1  C 
5:30 

5:45 

Monitor 

Teenagers,   U.S.A. 
5:55  News 

News 

5:05  Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 

Adventures  In 

Science 
Richard  Hayes 
News,  Jackson 
5:35  Saturday  At 

The  Chase 

Evening  Programs 


6:00 

6:15 
6:30 

6:45 

Monitor 

John  T.  Flynn 

World  Traveler 
Report  From 

Washington 
Basil  Heatter 

News                         News 
6:05  Pan-American 

Union 

Sports  Review 
Sports  Kaleidoscope  Capitol  Cloakroom 
Bob   Edge,  Sports 

Afield                     6:55  Joe  Foss,  Sports 

7:00 

7:15 

7:30 
7:45 

Monitor 

Pop  The  Question 

News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Overseas 

Assignment 
Labor-Management 

Series 

News,  Jackson 
7:05  Make  Way  For 
Youth 

Gangbusters 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

Monitor 

Quaker  City  Capers 

News 

8:05  Dance  Party 

21st  Precinct 

Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Rabbins 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Monitor 

Hawaii  Calls 
Lombardo  Land 

News 

9:05  Dance  Party 
(con.) 

Two  For  The  Money 

Your  Hit  Parade 
9:55  News,  Jackson 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

Monitor 

Grand  Ole  Opry 

News 

10:05  Edison 
1     Hotel   Orch. 
Lawrence  Welk 

Country  Style  (con.) 
Dance  Orchestra 

Sunday 


HBC 


Morning  Programs 

8:30  {Monitor 
8:45 


MBS 


9:00  World   News 
9:15      Roundup 

9:30  I 

9:45  lArt  Of  Living 


10:00  National  Radio 
10:15:     Pulpit 

10:30  Monitor 
10:45 


11:00 
11:15 
11:30 
11:45 


Monitor 


New  World 


Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 


News 

9:05  Great  Moments 
OfGreatComposers 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 


Frank  And  Ernest 

Christian  Science 

Monitor 
Northwestern 

Reviewing  Stand 


ABC 


Light  And  Life  Hour 


CBS 


Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 


News 

10:05  Message  Of 

Israel 
News 
10:35  College  Choir 


Sunday  Melodies 
11:05  Marines  On 
Review 

News 

11:35  Christian  In 
Action 


World  News  Roundup 
Sidney  Walton  Show 

Organ  Music, 

E.  Power  Biggs 
9:55  News,  Trout 


Church  Of  The  Air 


Church  Of  The  Air 
(con.) 


Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 


Invitation  To 
Learning— "The 
Out-Of-Doors" 


Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 

12:45 

Monitor 

The  Eternal  Light 

Marine  Band 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 
Merry  Mailman 

The  World  Tomorrow 

News,  LeSueur 
12:05  The  Leading 

Question 
Foreign   Affairs 

Washington  Week 

1:00 

1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

Monitor 

Basil  Heatter, 

News 
Christian  Science 
Lutheran  Hour 

Herald  Of  Truth 

News 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

Woolworth  Hour- 
Percy   Faith, 
Donald   Woods 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Music  From  Britain 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 

Kathy  Godfrey 

World  Music 
Festival 

3:00 

3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Monitor 

Music  From  Britain 

(con.) 
Bandstand,  U.S.A 

News 

3:05  Pan  American 

Union 
Hour  Of  Decision 

World  Music 
Festival  (con.) 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Monitor 

Salute  To  The  Nation 

Nick  Carter 

4:55  Lome  Greene 

Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 

Rhythm  On  The 
Road 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Monitor 

Adventures  Of  Rin 

Tin  Tin 
Wild  Bill  Hickok 
5:55  News 

News 

5:05  Disaster 

Church  In  The  Home 

News,  Trout 
5:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon  (con.) 
5:55  News,  Trout 

Evening   Progran 

6:00  Meet  The  Press 

6:15 

6:30  iMonitor 

6:45  1 

ns 

Public  Prosecutor- 
Jay  Jostyn 

On  The  Line,  Bob 
Considine 

All  Star  Sport  Time 

Monday  Morning 

Headlines 
Paul  Harvey.  News 
Evening  Comes 

Gene  Autry 
Summer  In  St.  Louis 

7:00 

7:15 
7:30 
7:45 

Monitor 

Richard  Hayes  Show 
Studio  Concert 

News 

7:05  Showtime 

Revue 
George  Sokolsky 
Valentino 
Travel  Talk 

Juke  Box  Jury 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

Monitor 

West  Point  Band 
Enchanted  Hour 

American  Town 

j     Meeting 

Our  Miss  Brooks 
Gary  Crosby 

Monitor 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Success  Story 
Manion  Forum 
Keep  Healthy 

News,  Paul  Harvey 
News,  Quincy  Howe 
Sammy  Kaye 
9:55  News 

Music   Hall, 
Mitch  Miller 

Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Joseph  C.   Harsch 
American  Forum 

Billy  Graham 
Global  Frontiers 

Elmer  Davis,  News 

Seven  Deadly  Sins 
Revival  Time 

News,  Schorr 
10:05  Face  The  Na- 
tion 
John  Derr,  Sports 

See   Xext  Page- 


I  V  program  highlights 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  AUGUST  8— SEPTEMBER  9 


Baseball  on  TV 


DATE 

TIME 

CH. 

AUGUST 

9,  Tu. 

8:00 

9 

8:15 

11 

10.  W. 

2:00 

11 

8:00 

9 

11,  Th. 

2:00 

11 

12,  F. 

8:00 

9 

8:00 

11 

13,  Sat. 

2:00 

2,8,9 

2:00 

11 

14,  Sun. 

2:00 

8,9 

2:00 

11 

16,  Tu. 

8:00 

11 

17,  W. 

8:00 

11 

18.  Th. 

1:30 

11 

19,  F. 

8:00 

9 

8:15 

11 

ZO,  Sat. 

2:00 

8,11 

2:25 

2 

8:00 

9 

21,  Sun. 

2:00 

8,11 

23,  Tu. 

8:00 

9 

8:00 

11 

24,  W. 

1:30 

9 

1:30 

11 

25,  Th. 

1:30 

9 

1:30 

11 

GAME 

Giants   vs.   Dodgers 
Boston  TS.  Yanks 
Boston   vs.   Yanks 
Giants   vs.   Dodgers 
Boston  TS.  Yanks 
Phila.   vs.   Dodgers 
Pgh.  vs.  Giants 
Phila.  vs.  Dodgers 
Pgh.  vs.  Giants 
Phila.  vs.  Dodgers 
Pgh.  vs.  Giants 
Dodgers  vs.  Giants 
Dodgers  vs.  Giants 
Dodgers  vs.  Giants 
Dodgers  vs.   Phil.-K 
Bait.   vs.   Yanks 
Bait.  vs.  Yanks 
Detroit   vs.    Cliicago 
Dodgers   vs.   Phil.-K 
Bait.  vs.  Y'anks 
Chicago  vs.  Dodgers 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
Chicago   vs.    Dodgers 
St.  L.  vs.  Giants 
Cine.  vs.  Dodgers 
Mil.  vs.  Giants 


D — Doubleheader         R — Road  game 

DATE        TIME     CH.      GAME 


26, 

F. 

8:00 

9 

Cine.   vs.   Dodgers 

8:00 

11 

Mil.  vs.  Giants 

27, 

Sat. 

2:00 

2,8,9 

Cine.  vs.   Dodgers 

2:00 

11 

Mil.  vs.  Giants 

28, 

Sun. 

2:00 

8,9 

St.  TLi.  vs.  Dodgers 

2:00 

11 

Chicago   vs.   Giants 

29, 

M. 

1:30 

9 

St.  Ii.  vs.  Dodgers 

1:30 

11 

Chicago   vs.   Giants 

30, 

Tu. 

8:00 

9 

Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

8:00 

11 

Cine.  vs.  Giants 

31, 

W. 

1:30 

11 

Cine.  vs.  Giants 

8:00 

9 

Mil.   vs.    Dodgers 

SEPT. 

1, 

Th. 

1:30 

9 

Mil.  vs.  Dodgers 

1:30 

11 

Cine.  vs.  Giants 

2, 

F. 

2:00 

11 

Wash.   vs.  Yanks 

8:00 

9 

Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 

3, 

Sat. 

2:00 

2 

Chicago  vs.  Cleve. 

2:00 

8,11 

Wash.   vs.  Yanks 

2:00 

9 

Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 

4, 

Sun. 

2:00 

8,11 

Wash.  vs.  Yanks 

2:00 

9 

Pgh.  vs.  Dodgers 

b, 

M. 

1:30 

9 

Phila.  vs.   Dodgers-D 

1:30 

11 

Pgh,  vs.  Giants-D 

7, 

W. 

2:00 

11 

Kan.  C.  vs.  Yanks 

10:00 

9 

Dodgers  vs.  Mil.-B 

74 


Monday  through  Friday 


&  [a]  Today— Getway  with   Garroway 
Herb  Sheldon— Plus  Jo  McCarthy 
Skinner   Show — Everything's   George 
Tales  Of  The  Trail-Kid  stufF 
Garry  Moore  Show— Moore  fun 
&  [U  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nursery 
Godfrey    Time — Relax    with    Arthur 
&  [s]  Way  Of  The  World-Drama 
&  [T|  Sheilah  Graham— She  tells  all 
Home— Arlene   Francis,   homemaker 
Romper   Room— For    little    people 
&{1]  Strike   it  Rich-Warren   Hull 
Wendy  Barrie— Gay  gal  talk 
Valiant  lady— Daytime  drama 
&  [¥]  Tennessee    Ernie— Pea-picking 
&  [U  Love   Of   Life— Serial    story 
&  [|]  Search   For  Tomorrow— Serial 
Feather  Your  Nest— Quiz  show 
(&  1j]  at  2:30)-The   Guiding    Light 
Dr.  Norman  Vincent  Peale 
Jack  Paar  Show— Jack's  Jake! 
Norman  Brokenshire  Show— Gay 
Claire   Mann — Glamour  treatment 
&  [s]  Welcome  Travelers— From  NYC 
First-Run  Feature  Films 
&  [s]  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show— Lively 
Maggi  McNeills— Chit-chat 
Summer   Entertainment— Variety 
Art  Linkletter's  House  Party— Fun! 
Ern   Westmore — Beauty   hints 
&  [U  Big    Pay-Off— Mink-lined    quiz 
Ted  Mack  Show— Variety 
Ted  Steele  Show— Music  &  talk 
Bob  Crosby— With  Gary  &  Cathy 
it  Pays  To  Be  Married— Bill  Goodwin 
The  Brighter  Day— Daytime  drama 
&  [s]  Hawkins  Falls— Serial 
&  [H  Secret  Storm— Daily  story 
First  Love — Drama   of   newlyweds 
&  [s]  On  Your  Account— Quiz 
Mr.  Sweeney— Chuckles  with  Ruggles 

EARLY  EVENING 

Jr.  Featurama— Great  for  kids 
Sky's  The  Limit— Quiz 
Liberace — Music  by  candlelight 
Soupy  Sales- Comedy  with  puppets 
Matt  Dennis  Show— Music,  M,  W,  F; 
Vaughn  Monroe  Show,  T,  Th. 
O  Million  Dollar  Movies 
7:45  O  Julius  La  Rosa— Songs,  M,  W,  F 


7:00 

o 

8:55 

o 

9:00 

& 

o 

10:00 

o 

o 

10:30 

o 

9 

10:45 

o 

11:00 

o 

e 

11:30 

o 

12:00 

o 

o 

12:15 

o 

12:30 

o 

o 

12:45 

o 

<D 

1:00 

o 

o 

0 

1:30 

O 

O 

2:00 

O 

o 

G 

2:30 

o 

3:00 

o 

o 

o 

3:30  & 

4:00 

% 

o 

4:15 

o 

o 

4:30 

o 

o 

5:30 

o 

6:30 

o 

0 

T       7:00 

o 

V       7:30 

o 

«              V 

auq 

LATE   NIGHT 
10:00  O  Million  Dollar  Movies 
10:45  ®  News  &  Weather  Report 
11:00  0  Liberace— Valentino  of  the  keyboard 
11:15  O  The  Late  Show— Feature  films 
O  Steve  Allen  Show 


Monday  P.M. 


8:00  O  Burns  &  Allen— Repeat  films 

O  &  m  Caesar     Presents;     Aug.     22, 
8:00-9:30:  "The  King  &  Mrs.  Candle,"  Cyril 
Ritchard,  on  Summer  Special 
Q  Digest  Drama— Human-interest  stories 
8:30  O  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts— Variety 

Q  Voice  Of  Firestone — Summer  concerts 
9:00  O  &  m  Those  Whiting  Girls— Comedy 
O  The  Medic— Film  re-runs 
Q  Pee  Wee  King  Showf — Corn-fed  fun 
9:30  0  &[8]  Ethel  &  Albert— Domestic  fun 
Q  Robert  Montgomery  Presents 
10:00  O  &  [s]  Studio  One  Summer  Theater 

O  Eddie  Cantor— Pop-eyed  lafFs 
10:30  O  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  stars 


Tuesday 


7:30  0  Waterfront— Preston   Foster  stars 
8:00  O  &  m  Piece  The  Face-Bill  Cullen 

0  Star  Playhouse— Hollywood  films 
8:30  O  Music   '55— Stan    Kenton's   sounds 

O  Arthur  Murray  Dancing  Party 
9:00  O  &  H]  Meet  Millie— Elena  Verdugo 

Q  Summer  Theater— Half-hour  films 

O  Make  Room  For  Daddy— Repeats 
9:30  Q  &\s}  Spotlight  Playhouse— Drama 

O  Dollar  A  Second— $$$  Quiz 
10:00  O  $64,000  Question— Hal  March  quiz. 

O  &  d]  Truth    Or   Consequences 
10:30  O  The  Search— Documentaries 

O  Name's  The  Same— Bob  &  Ray 


Wednesday 


7:30  O  Disneyland— Repeat   films 

8:00  O  Frankie  Laine  Show— Music  galore 

8  Request   Performance— Dramas 
(&  [s]  at  9:30)    My    Little    Margie- 
Beginning  Aug.  31:  Father  Knows  Best 
O  Wild  West— Feature  films 
9:00  O  &  [H  The  Millionaire— Stories 

O  Kraft  Theater— Fine,  hour-long  plays 
O  Masquerade  Party— Costume  quiz 


9:30  O  I've  Got  A  Secret— Panel  quiz 

O  Penny  To  A  Million— Bill  Goodwin 
10:00  Q  &[|]U.S.  Steel  Theater— Alternates 
with   Front  Row  Center 

O  This  is  Your  Life— Re-runs 
10:30  O  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 


Thursday 


8:00  0  Bob    Cummings    Show— Farce 
O  &  [§]  Best  Of  Groucho— Re-runs 
O  Soldier  Parade— Hour  of  Gl  variety 
8:30  O  Climax— Suspense   &    mystery 
O  Make  The  Connection— Quiz 
9:00  O  &  [i]  Dragnet— Film    repeats 

O  Star   Tonight— Filmed   teleplays 
9:30  0  Four  Star   Playhouse— Excellent 
O  &  d]  Ford   Theater— Re-runs 
10:00  0  Johnny    Carson— Bright    comedy 

O  &  [U  Lux  Studio  Workshop— Drama 
10:30  0  Halls  Of  ivy-The  Ronald  Colmons 


Friday 


7:30  0  Life    With    Elizabeth— Light-hearted 
8:00  0  &  [§]  Pantomime     Quiz— On     Aug. 
26,  Mama  returns  with  live  comedy 

O  Midwestern   Hayride— Hoedown 
8:30  0  Topper— Last  four  weeks 

O  &  d]  Life  Of  Riley— Comedy  re-runs 
9:00  0  Playhouse  Of  Stars— Filmed  dramas 

O  &  [f]  Best  in  Mystery— Whodunits 
9:30  0  Meet  Mr.  McNulty— Re-runs 

O  &  H  Dear  Phoebe— Comedy  re-runs 

O  The  Vise— Spine-Chillers  from  Britain 
10:00  0  Undercurrent— Mystery  &  adventure 
10:30  0  Windows— Ambitious    drama    series 

O  So  This  is  Hollywood— Rib-tickling 

0  Alec  Templeton— Enchanting   music 


Saturday 


7:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Stunts  for  prizes 

O  Show  Wagon— Heidt's  talent  salute 
8:00  0  America's  Greatest  Bands— Tops 

O  The  Soldiers— Comedy 
8:30  O  Dunninger  Show— Mystifying 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— Sam  Levenson 
O  &  [U  Musical    Chairs— Stars    Johnny 
Mercer;  Aug.  27:  "One  Touch  Of  Venus." 
9:30  0  Down  You  Go— Witty  panel  patter 
O  Durante— O'Connor    Show— Re-runs 
10:00  0  Julius  La  Rosa— TV's  top  tunes 

O  &  {U  Here's  The  Show— Gobel  rests 
10:30  0  Damon  Runyon  Theater— Stories 
O  &  [U  Your   Play   Time 


Sunday 


6:00  0  I  Love  Lucy— Repeat  of  early  shows 
7:00  0  Let's  Take  A  Trip 

O  &  [U  People    Are    Funny— Linkletter 
7:30  0  Private  Secretary— Re-runs 

O  Do  it  Yourself;  Aug.  14,  7:30-8:30: 
Tam  O'Shanter  Golf  Tournament 
8:00  0  &  tu  Toast  Of  The  Town— Variety 

O  Sunday  Hour— Comedy  &  variety 
9:00  0  G-E   Theater— Ronald    Reagan,  host 

O  &  m  TV    Playhouse— Hour   teleplays 

0  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
9:30  0  Appointment  With  Adventure 

0  Life   Begins  At  Eighty— Sprightly 
10:00  0  Stage  7— New  stories 

O  &  {U  Cameo  Theater— On  Aug.  28, 
Loretta   Young   Show   returns 

0  Break  The  Bank— Bert  Parks,  quiz 
10:30  0  What's  My  Line— Job  game 

O  Bob  Cummings  Show— Comedy 

0  Paris  Precinct— Louis  Jourdan  stars 


Winsome 
Annie  Oakley 

(Continued  from  page  32) 
riding    boots    in    the    morning — and    ex- 
changes them  twelve  hovirs  later  for  dainty 
dancing    slippers. 

As  a  little  girl,  Gail  had  no  choice  ex- 
cept to  become  a  tomboy,  unless  she 
wanted  to  miss  all  the  fun.  She  was  the 
oidy  girl  in  a  neighborhood  crowded  with 
boys.  If  she  wanted  to  play  with  them,  she 
had  to  join  their  games,  or  be  left  out. 

"Hie  advantages  of  being  the  only  girl 
were  not  obvious  until  some  years  later. 
At  that  age,  being  a  member  of  the  wejiker 
sex  had  many  more  drawbacks — not  the 
least  of  these  being  that,  whatever  the 
game,  Gail  was  the  victim.  If  they  were 
cops  and  robbers,  sooner  or  later  she  got 
clobbered  on  the  head  "while  taking  off 
with  the  bankroll."  When  they  were  cow- 
boys and  Indians,  she  was  tagged  the  "out- 
law" and  was  tied  to  trees  or  punished  in 
any  number  of  ways  which  would  have 
done  credit  to  a  Hollywood  scenario. 

Once,  to  help  her  hide  from  the  law,  two 
"feUow  criminals"  Hfted  her  to  the  top 
of  a  tree — only  to  forget  about  her  at  din- 
ner time,  when  they  rushed  home  for  their 
meal.  Five-year-old  Gail  had  but  one  way 
to  get  down — in  a  straight  line.  Ten  min- 
utes later,  she  was  taken  to  the  hospital 
with   a  broken   leg. 

Another  time,  the  boys  built  a  midget 
soap-box  racer  and  pulled  it  up  a  steep 
hill.  "Who's  going  to  try  it  first?"  one  of 
the  older  boys  asked.  When  no  volunteers 
answered,  twelve  pairs  of  eyes  turned 
to  nine-year-old  Gail.  "Oh,  no!  Not  me. 
I  don't  even  know — " 

That's  as  far  as  she  got  by  the  time  they 
had  lifted  her  into  the  racer,  and  not  too 
gently  shoved  her  on  the  way.  Halfway 
down,  she  smashed  into  a  parked  car  and, 
when  she  woke  up  again,  saw  her  father— 
a  doctor  by  profession,  fortunately — set  her 
arm.  Yet  in  spite  of  her  mishaps,  and  she 
had  more  than  her  share,  Gail  enjoyed 
roughing  it. 

But,  all  along,  her  desire  for  femininity 
showed  itself  in  various  ways.  In  the 
morning  she  may  have  toted  guns,  but  in 
the  afternoon  she  sneaked  in  to  her 
mother's  wardrobe  closet  for  one  of  her 
dresses,  hats,  and  high-heeled  shoes.  AU 
little  girls  play  "dress-up"  games.  Gail, 
however,  went  one  step  further.  To  com- 
plete the  "grown-up"  iUusion,  she  also  put 
on  her  mother's  lipstick — and  perfume. 

For  many  weeks  her  mother,  Mrs.  Gray- 


OCTOBER  HEROES 

Watch  for  these  intimate  stories  and 
exclusive  pictures: 

Tennessee  Ernie  Ford 

(he's  on  the  cover,  too!) 

• 

Garry  Moore 

• 

Steve  Lawrence  of  Tonight 

* 

John  Baragrey 

* 

Tommy  ReHig  (and  "Lassie,"  too) 

* 

all  in  October 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  September  6 


TyCESS  WEIGHT ...  The  Killer! 


between 


~/^i 


^ 


^yT-j 


W:i'MB 


&?s 


tUmnty 


REDUCE  INCHES  NOW! 

A  Ful/ Mouth  of 

SAFE,  SENSIBLE  MENUS 

NO  CALORIES  TO  COUNT, 

by  the  author  of 

"MAN  ALIVE 

You're  Half  Dead" 


Di» 


LOSE  FATTY  WEIGHT 

WITHOUT  INJURING 

VITAL  BODY  TISSUES 

Make  No  Mistake — If  you  are  exces- 
sively overweight  you  are  endangering 
your  normal  life  span,  and  according 
to  medical  science  you'd  better  LOSE 
EXCESS  FAT  QUICKLY!  In  his  book, 
"SLENDERIZING  for  New  Beauty", 
Dr.  Munro  shows  you  the  real  danger 
in  FATTY  WEIGHT  and  how  you 
can  REDUCE  INCHES  FAST!  Flabby, 
excess  fat  harms  you  when  it  is  de- 
posited as  cholesterol  in  the  arteries. 
Medical  authorities  state  that  a  steady 
build-up  of  this  substance  may  cause 
premature  aging  and  perhaps  death. 
Dr.  Munro's  book  tells  you  step-by- 
step  how  to  lose  this  threatening  fat 
and  to  LOSE  WEIGHT  SAFELY! 
BEST  OF  ALL  —  by  following  the 
principles  in  this  book  you  can  revital- 
ize your  system  while  you  are  actually 
reducing.  You'll  LOSE  WEIGHT  — 
LOSE  INCHES! 


CAUTION 

Reducing  may  be  harm- 
ful if  you  don't  lose 
flabby  fat  with  It-the 
wrong  kind  of  diet  may 
result  in  weight  loss 
at  the  expense  of  vital 
tissues,  causing  weak- 
ness, anemia  and  in- 
fections. Play  Safe  — 
follow  a  doctor's  ad- 
vice .  .  .  and  that 
means  Dr.  Munro's 
"SLENDERIZING  for 
New  Beauty" 


TEST  DR.  MUNRO'S  HEALTH-GIVING 
PRINCIPLES  AT  OUR  EXPENSE! 

PAT  EGGS,  STEAK,  OYSTERS,  FAT,  DRESSING,  ICE  CREAM,  CREAMY 
C  A  I  DESSERTS  -  3  MEALS  A  DAY!  You'll  find  everything  you  need  to 
know  about  reducing  right  in  this  book— including  a  Complete  30  day  diet,  simple, 
helpful  exercises,  and  advice  on  health  to  revitalize  your  body. 


Because  Dr. 
Munro  gives  you 
a  full  month  of 
suggested  menus, 
you  don't  have  to 
count  calories  to 
lose  weight.  He 
tells  you  just 
what  to  eat  and 
■what  to  avoid! 


START 
RIGHT  NOW 


MONEY- BACK 
GUARANTEE 

You  can  get  this  valu- 
able book  in  all  book- 
stores for  only  $2.50 
per  copy.  However,  if 
you  wish  to  test  "SLEN- 
DERIZING  for  New 
Beauty"  for  10  days— 
IVIAILTHIS  COUPON.  If 
you  are  not  delighted 
with  results  you  may 
return  the  book  in  10 
days  for  a  full  $2.50 
refund. 


BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE  INC.,  r^IVss 

205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  "SLENDER- 
IZING for  New  Beauty".  I  enclose  S2.50.  If  I  am 
not  delighted  with  results,  I  may  return  book  in 
10  days  for  full  refund. 


Narne 

Address 


City.., 


..Zone State... 


J 


75 


son,  couldn't  figure  out  why  the  contents 
of  her  bottles  disappeared  so  rapidly. 
Neither  could  Dr.  Grayson,  who  had  to 
replenish  them.  The  mystery  didn't  clear 
up  till  the  Sunday  morning  he  came  back 
from  a  trip  to  New  York,  with  a  five-ounce 
bottle  of  Arpege  perfume  for  his  wife. 

She'd  hardly  put  it  on  her  dresser — un- 
opened— to  go  downstairs  and  prepare 
breakfast,  when  her  four-year-old  daugh- 
ter crept  into  her  room,  pried  open  the 
lid,  and  liberally  applied  the  contents  on 
her  arms,  neck  and  forehead,  just  as 
"Mommy"  put  on  cologne.  At  breakfast, 
the  aroma  of  Arpege  completely  eclipsed 
that  of  the  bacon  and  eggs.  Suspicious, 
Mrs.  Grayson  rushed  upstairs  and  found 
her  new  bottle  half-empty! 

Gail's  craving  for  perfvime  persists  to 
this  day.  Whether  she  made  $15  a  week 
during  school  vacation  as  her  father's 
secretary,  $150  a  week  at  M-G-M,  or  her 
present,  much  higher,  salary  on  TV,  a 
good  percentage  <rf  it  goes  into  Chanel 
No.  5,  Joy,  Empire,  or  White  Shoulders. 

As  Gail  grew  up — and  into  her  mother's 
size — quite  regularly  Mrs.  Grayson  would 
search  her  closet  in  vain  for  one  of  her 
dresses,  only  to  find  her  daughter  wearing 
it.  But  she  never  really  minded.  "There's 
nothing  wrong  with  a  girl's  desire  for 
pretty  clothes,"  she  used  to  say,  insisting 
that  one  of  the  prime  functions  of  a  female 
is  to  be  feminine,  graceful,  and  glamorous, 
whether  she's  two  or  eighty-two.  Thus,  she 
did  her  share  to  help  Gail  on  her  way — 
and  by  more  methods  than  letting  her  bor- 
row her  clothes. 

Mrs.  Grayson  was  convinced — and  so  is 
Gail  today — that  "glamour"  means  much 
more  than  dressing  to  one's  best  advantage, 
that  it  includes  such  qualifications  as  good 
bearing,  charm,  gracefulness  and  self- 
assurance.  That's  why  she  enrolled  Gail 
in  a  dancing  class  when  she  was  two — not 
to  learn  a  few  steps  of  tap  and  ballet,  but 
to  develop  grace  mid  poise. 

At  home,  she  taught  her  daughter  man- 
ners and  lady-Mke  behavior  by  setting  a 
good  example,  never  by  threatening  or 
actually  administering  punishment.  And, 
after  Gail  finished  high  school,  to  round 
out  her  "polishing,,"  she  was  sent  to  one 
of  the  finest  finishing  schools  in  the  coun- 
try, Harkum  CaHege  for  Girls,  at  Bryn 
Mawr,  Pennsylvania; 

Here  again,  Gail's  struggle  within  her- 
self came  to  the  surface.  She  loved  the 
finishing  school,  the  graceful  way  of  living, 
the  companionship  of  some  of  the  finest, 


best  brought-up  young  girls  in  the  coun- 
try. But,  at  the  same  time,  she  had  a 
hankering  for  a  more  carefree  life,  for 
wide-open  spaces,  and  for  "roughing  it." 
After  two  years,  she  left  Harkum  College 
to  continue  her  education  at  the  University 
of  Texas — where  she  was  just  as  much  in 
her  element  as  in  Bryn  Mawr. 

Today,  Gail  is  one  of  the  most  attractive 
young  women  in  television.  But  there  have 
been  times  when  it  looked  as  though 
"glamour"  was  no  more  than  a  word  in 
the  dictionary,  when  she  could  have  been 
disillusioned — except  for  her  own  common 
sense  and  the  down-to-earth  attitude  of 
her  mother.  Take  the  scar  on  her  cheek, 
still  visible  today. 

She  was  just  three  when  her  little  bud- 
dies egged  her  on  to  catch  a  hound  which 
was  known  to  be  somewhat  ferocious.  Gail 
caught  him,  all  right.  But,  in  the  process, 
she  fell,  the  dog  stepped  on  her,  and — just 
to  prove  his  grievance  and  superiority — bit 
her  in  the  face.  Her  screams  quickly 
brought  her  father,  who  sewed  up  her 
cheek  with  fourteen  stitches  extending 
from  the  right  eye  to  her  chin.  Dr.  Gray- 
son did  such  an  expert  job  that  the  scar 
is  hardly  noticeable  any  more.  Yet  there 
might  have  been  a  time  when  a  girl  more 
vain  than  Gail  could  have  cohsidered  this 
a  handicap. 

Like  many  teenagers,  she  went  through 
the  "chubby"  stage,  when  no  matter  how 
much  or  how  little  she  ate,  she  just  kept 
expanding  in  all  directions.  Her  mother, 
knowing  what  the  results  could  be,  took 
prompt  and  drastic  action.  "You'll  have  to 
go  on  a  diet"  she  informed  her  thirteen- 
year-old   daughter   one   morning. 

Gail  didn't  sound  happy.  "What  does  that 
mean,  Mom?" 

"First  of  all,  no  more  starchy  food.  No 
potatoes,  bread,  macaroni,  spaghetti,  and, 
mostly,  no  hot  fudge  sxuidaes  and  fried 
chicken!"  She'd  listed  practically  all  of 
Gail's  favorite  foods. 

But  that  was  only  the  beginning.  "You'll 
also  have  to  do  exercises  every  morning." 
To  make  it  easier  for  Gail,  Mrs.  Grayson 
joined  her  in  dieting  as  well  as  in  exercis- 
ing. Every  morning  she  came  in,  about 
half  an  hour  before  her  daughter  got  up, 
carrying  a  big  glass  of  orange  juice,  "to 
give  her  pep."  So  sleepy  was  Gail  she 
could  hardly  see  the  glass,  but  somehow 
she  managed  to  grab  it  and  get  it  to  her 
lips.  "Now  let's  get  out  of  bed  and  start 
the  exercises." 

To  this  date,  Gail  has  never  given  up 


/ 


76 


It  made  me  a  better  wifei 

riearing  how  other  people  have  solved  real-life 
problems  of  love  and  hate  and  fear  often  helps 
you  to  a  better,  happier  life.  And  you  hear  just 
that — real  people  grappling  with  deep  emotional 
problems — on  radio's  "My  True  Story."  You'll  recog- 
nize each  tender  situation  because  it  is  as  true  as 
life  itself — taken  from  the  files  of  "True  Story  Mag- 
azine." And  you  may  well  find  the  solution  to  the 
most  difficult   problem   of  your.  life. 

TUNE  IN 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American   Broadcasting   Stations 

She  thought  [ler  great  love   could   conquer  the   evil   in   him.     Read   "OUTLAW'S   WOMAN"    in 
September  TRUE  STORY  MAGAZINE  at  newsstands  now. 


dieting,  nor  exercising,  though  she  isn't 
doing  it  quite  in  the  same  manner  any 
longer.  She  does  her  exercises  only  when 
she  is  not  actually  working — which  is 
about  six  months  out  of  twelve.  (Usual- 
ly, when  she  finishes  her  television  com- 
mitments, she  heads  back  to  Little  Rock, 
Arkansas,  to  join  her  family.)  When  she's 
in  front  of  the  cameras,  she  gets  all  the 
physical  exercise  she  needs.  Anything  in 
addition  would   be  strictly  superfluous. 

As  for  dieting,  Gail  has  found  a  unique 
solution  which  lets  her  eat  her  favorite 
chocolate  sundaes  and  fried  chicken  and 
all  sorts  of  potatoes — and  still  keep  down 
her  weight.  One  week,  she  sticks  to  rare 
meats  and  greens,  won't  even  touch  a  bis- 
cuit for  lunch.  ITie  next  she  goes  all  out 
for  anything  that  appeals  to  her.  Somehow 
it  evens  out,  because  Gail  has  one  of  the 
cutest  figures  in  TVdom. 

On  one  occasion,  however,  she  overdid 
her  dieting.  During  her  early  college  days, 
she  used  to  idolize  a  young  star,  Dixie 
Dunbar,  who  was  approximately  Gail's 
height — but  quite  a  bit  thinner.  "H  I  want 
to  be  like  her,  I  have  to  get  all  my 
measurements  down  to  her  size,"  Gail 
rationalized,  and  promptly  went  on  a  diet 
of  black  coffee  and  greens. 

At  the  time,  she  was  playing  the  lead  in 
a  college  play.  In  one  scene,  in  which  she 
was  supposed  to  laugh  hysterically,  di- 
rector Richard  Nash  (who  later  scored  in 
Hollywood  with  such  hits  as  "Welcome 
Stranger")  thought  she  was  too  con- 
vincing for  an  amateur.  He  knew  he  was 
right,  just  a  few  minutes  later,  when  she 
collapsed  on  the  set  and  was  rushed  to  the 
infirmary,  where  the  doctor  said  there  was 
nothing  wrong  with  her  that  a  good  meal 
couldn't  fix. 

After  twelve  hours'  sleep  and  a  break- 
fast the  following  morning  that  would  have 
put  Burl  Ives  to  shame,  Gail  was  all  right 
again.  She  also  decided  that,  as  long  as 
her  height  was  the  same  as  Dixie  Dunbar's, 
maybe  it  wouldn't  matter  quite  so  much  if 
her  waist  measured  a  few  inches  more. 

For  a  long  time,  Gail  considered  "glam- 
our" and  "sophistication"  synonymous.  She 
had  to  learn  the  hard  way  that  this  is  not 
necessarily  so;  that  a  girl  is  better  off  de- 
veloping her  own  strong  points,  whatever 
they  are,  rather  than  reaching  for  some- 
thing she  doesn't  possess,  or  pretending  to 
be  someone  she  is  not. 

In  her  anxiety  to  appear  grown-up  and 
sophisticated,  time  was  moving  along  too 
slowly  for  Gail.  At  four  she  wanted  to  be 
ten;  at  ten,  twenty;  and,  at  thirteen — she 
did  something  about  it. 

Before  leaving  with  a  beau  for  a  club 
meeting,  she  decided  the  time  had  come 
to  wear  high-heeled  shoes.  Speculating 
that  her  parents  wouldn't  approve,  she 
waited  till  her  mother  had  left  the  house, 
then  got  a  pair  from  her  mother's  closet 
and  put  them  on. 

Having  forgotten  something  at  home, 
Mrs.  Grayson  pulled  up  in  front  of  the 
house  just  as  Gail  was  walking  down  the 
driveway.  Disbelievingly,  she  stared  at  her 
daughter,  who  was  weaving  and  swaying 
all  over  the  driveway.  Never  having  worn 
high  heels,  Gail  felt  and  looked  as  though 
she  were  walking  on  stilts. 

Her  mother  promptly  marched  her  em- 
barrassed daughter  back  into  the  house 
and  made  her  change  into  low  heels.  An- 
other year  passed  before  Gail  was  per- 
mitted to  experiment  with  "sophisticated 
footwear,"  as  she  used  to  call  it. 

In  spite  of  such  occasional  faux  pas, 
Gail  developed  into  a  very  sensible  young 
woman  who,  at  heart,  knew  what  was  good 
for  her.  Unfortunately,  not  everybody  did. 

On  a  visit  to  Hollywood,  she  was  dis- 
covered by  an  agent  who  found  her  sun- 
bathing on  the  roof  garden  of  the  Holly- 
wood  Roosevelt,   where   she   was   staying. 


He  promptly  told  Louis  B.  Mayer,  then 
head  of  M-G-M,  about  the  attractive  girl, 
and  made  an  appointment  for  her  to  see 
him  the  next  day.  When  introduced,  Gail 
made  an  immediate  impression  on  Rlr. 
Mayer  and,  twenty-four  hours  later,  was 
signed  to  a  contract. 

Had  the  studio  left  her  as  she  was,  it 
would  have  been  more  beneficial  for  the 
contractor  and  contractee.  But  it  was  the 
Hollywood  custom  to  turn  each  new  find 
into  a  copy  of  the  cvirrent  glamour  girl — 
which  meant  they  were  all  made  to  look 
like  Hedy  Lamarr,  Lana  Turner,  Rita  Hay- 
worth,  or  whoever  happened  to  be  most 
popular  at  that  precise  moment. 

Gail  was  too  shy  to  object,  when  she 
should  have.  '"Like  most  of  the  other  girls 
I  was  sent  through  the  complete  glamour 
mill,"  she  later  lamented.  "When  I  "grad- 
uated,' I  looked  little  different  from  the 
other  newcomers  on  the  lot.  We  all  wore 
our  hair  the  same  way,  used  almost  identi- 
cal make-up,  even  dressed  with  much 
similarity.  Result:  Because  I  looked  like 
everybody  else,  they  really  didn't  need  me. 
Before  long,  I  was  out  of  a  job!" 

A  few  months  later,  she  went  through 
the  w^hole  process  all  over,  this  time  at 
RKO,  and  with  the  same  result.  After 
minor  parts  in  a  few  pictures,  she  once 
again  found  herself  outside  the  studio 
gates.  Having  learned  her  lesson,  from 
then  on,  she  refused  to  be  anyone  but 
herself.  "That's  what  Gene  Autry  liked  when 
she  was  introduced  to  him,  the  reason  he 
gave  her  a  chance  to  play  opposite  him  in 
feature  Westerns,  and  eventually  built  the 
Annie  Oakley  series  around  her. 

Actually,  while  Gail  is  quite  the  glam- 
our girl  off-screen,  her  younger  fans 
weren't  so  wTong  when  they  claimed  she 
can  be  glamorous  even  as  a  cowgirl. 

About  a  fourth  of  her  time  is  spent  in 
town,    when    the    "inside    scenes"    of    her 


series  are  shot  at  the  "Flying  A"  studio 
on  Sunset  Boulevard,  when  she  can  drive 
to  the  Hollywood  Roosevelt  for  lunch  and, 
at  night,  back  to  the  San  Fernando  Valley 
apartment  she  shares  with  actress  Nan 
Leslie. 

But  most  of  the  scenes  are  filmed  on 
location:  At  Pioneer  Town  in  the  Mojave 
Desert,  about  twenty  miles  east  of  Twenty- 
nine  Palms;  at  Lone  Pine,  10,000  feet  above 
sea  level,  in  some  of  California's  most 
rugged  country;  at  other  locations  where 
the  climate  is  severe,  work  days  long — 
often  seven  days  a  week  without  a  day 
off — and  living  conditions  almost  as  primi- 
tive as  those  of  the  heroine  she  portrays 
on  the  screen. 

Gail's  work  in  itself  is  difficult,  exhaust- 
ing, and  often  physically  dangerous,  which 
is  obvious  to  anyone  who  has  watched  her 
"running  mounts,"  galloping  into  camera 
range,  ascending  or  descending  steep  hills. 
(Amazingly,  with  all  the  difficult  riding 
Gail  had  to  do  these  past  fifteen  months, 
her  only  accident  occurred  at  Hollywood 
and  Vine  when — stepping  out  of  her  car — 
she  slipped  of?  the  sidewalk  and  injured 
her  leg!) 

On  location,  Gail  is  often  the  only  girl 
among  dozens  of  men.  It  would  be  easy  for 
her  to  acquire  some  of  the  rough  and  ready 
mannerisms  of  the  male  sex,  of  "letting 
herself  go"  after  work,  of  coming  to  din- 
ner just  as  she  left  the  last  scene.  But  that's 
not  like  her. 

Imagine  the  surprised  expression  of  a 
visitor  to  Pioneer  Town  who,  having  seen 
Gail  perform  one  of  her  stunts  just  before 
sunset,  sees  her  again  an  hour  later  at  the 
"Golden  Stallion,"  the  only  restaurant, 
dressed  smartly  in  skirt  and  blouse,  look- 
ing as  attractive  as  if  she'd  just  stepped 
out  of  a  beauty  shop.  He  wouldn't  know 
that,  no  matter  how  hard  she  works  dur- 
ing the  day,  at  night  Annie  Oakley  invar- 


iably becomes  Gail  Davis  again — which  is 
duly  appreciated  by  all  around  her. 

Working  in  the  desert  presents  many 
problems  for  a  girl  who  values  her  appear- 
ance. The  strong,  penetrating  rays  of  the 
sun,  the  high  winds  and  sand  storms — and, 
not  least,  the  sudden  temperature  changes 
when  the  sun  goes  down  and  the  mercury 
often  drops  to  80°  below  what  it  was  at 
high  noon — can  be  most  damaging  to  a 
girl's   complexion. 

It  takes  a  lot  of  effort  on  Gail's  part  to 
combat  these  elements.  In  the  desert  or 
high  •  mountains,  she  makes  certain  she 
wears  plenty  of  make-up  to  protect  herself 
from  the  siui's  rays  and,  when  she  gets 
back  to  her  room,  cleans  it  off  thoroughly, 
then  washes  her  face  several  times  with 
ice-cold  water  to  stimulate  circulation. 
After  that,  she  applies  lotion  or  baby  oil — 
and  is  all  set  for  the  next  day. 

Gail  has  one  more  formula  to  keep  her- 
self in  good  shape:  plenty  of  rest.  On  loca- 
tion, she  usually  turns  in  right  after  din- 
ner. Even  in  Hollywood,  she  only  goes 
out  or  gives  a  party  on  Sunday  nights, 
and  then  insists  on  being  brought  home 
early.  But  what  she  misses  out  on  in  quan- 
tity, she  makes  up  in  quality.  For  Gail, 
there's  no  "run-of-the-mill"  date.  Each 
is  a  special  occasion  for  which  to  be 
dressed  and  prepared. 

When  she  and  her  roommate,  Nan  Les- 
lie, give  a  party  at  home,  it's  always  a 
miniature  gala  affair,  with  fancy  foods,  ex- 
quisite table  settings,  dinner  music  and 
candlelight — against  the  soft,  pastel-colored 
background  of  their  walls,  carefully  se- 
lected to  give  them  the  most  complimen- 
tary setting. 

In  the  first  fifty-two  Annie  Oakley  shows 
she  did,  Gail  wore  only  one  dress.  The 
rest  of  the  time,  nothing  but  cowgirl  out- 
fits. Yet  she  proved  that  even  a  cowgirl 
can  be  glamorous— on  screen  and  off. 


Smart  Girl/ 


SHE  USES  CUTICURA.' 


Hateful  blemishes  are  cleared  up— 
her  skin  is  baby-soft,  alluring! 

Unlike  most  medicated  skin  prepara- 
tions, Cuticura  does  far  more  than  help 
clear  up  externally  caused  pimples.  It 
also  helps  counteract  blackheads,  flaky 
dr3Tiess,  oily  shine.  Wakes  up  your 
complexion  tone.  Your  skin  begins  to 
glow  again— often  in  just  7  days. 

A  two-way  treatment— that's  what 
most  skin  needs.  And  Cuticura  gives 
you:  An  exquisite  soap  that  alone  of  all 
leading  soaps  is  superfatted  and  mildly 
medicated  to  help  maintain 
the  natural  moisture  and 
normal,  healthy  acidity  of 
your  skin.  An  effective  oint- 
ment that  works  while 
you  sleep,  softening  your 
skin  as  it  helps  relieve. 

Send  25?i  for  3  pc.  trial 
size  "Good  Looks  Kit" 
to  Cuticura,  Department 
TS-95,  Maiden  48,  Mass. 


uticura 

Proved  VV^ay  to  Lovelier  Skin 


77 


(Continued  from  page  43) 
and  white  checks  for  the  McGuires,  a 
lavender  skirt  and  olive-green  blouse  for 
Jan,  a  checked  frock  in  green  for  Carmel — 
and  another  set  of  shoes  to  match.  Every- 
one was  pleased  and  Arthur  nodded  his 
approval,  but  this  is  the  pay-off:  When 
the  show  went  on,  a  half-hour  later,  the 
girls  were  wearing  something  altogether 
different.  Jan,  with  her  Riviera  tan,  was 
lovely  in  yellow  gingham;  Carmel  wore  a 
lively  blue  polka-dot  dress;  the  McGuires 
came  on-camera  in  white  blouses  with 
white-  and  red-checked  pedal  pushers 
and  skirts. 

The  gals  looked  good.  Of  course,  they 
were  trembling  and  chewing  on  their  lips. 
Carmel  Quinn  had  never  been  in  an 
amusement  park  in  her  life,  and  she  was 
half-praying  for  a  miracle  that  would 
perpetuate  that  fact.  Jan  looked  a  little 
tense.  The  McGuires,  of  course,  had  each 
other  for  comfort,  and  they  were  just  as 
calm  as  Mexican  jumping  beans  on  a  hot 
griddle. 

"We  greet  you  from  Steeplechase  Park 
in  Coney  Island,"  Arthur  announced. 
"Let's  have  a  good  time." 

The  beginning  was  beguiling — on  the 
grand  carrousel.  Originally  built  for 
Kaiser  Wilhelm  at  the  turn  of  the  century, 
it  was  adorned  with  ornate  pigs,  chariots 
and  ruby-lipped  cupids.  Artiiur  was  en- 
tranced with  this  dandy  of  merry-go- 
rounds  and  joined  his  kids  from  the  Henry 
Street  Settlement,  who  loaded  on  with  the 
cast.  Then,  enjoying  a  false  sense  of 
security,  the  cast  rushed  over  to  the 
Chairoplane — a  ride  of  swings  on  long 
chains  that  circled  like  the  carrousel. 

There  is  an  item  called  the  Whirlpool. 
It  is  built  a  little  like  the  tube-pan  with 
the  tube  part  covered.  In  action  it  looks 
like  a  spin  drier.  Symbolically,  you  get 
on  the  center  crest  by  walking  a  plank. 
Everyone  takes  off  his  shoes,  not  because 
the  shoes  will  fly  off  but  because  the 
riders  get  to  flying  in  every  which  direc- 
tion and  are  likely  to  land  in  someone's 
stomach.  When  everyone  is  set  nicely  on 
the  center,  the  contraption  begins  to  turn. 

"Let's  everyone  sing,"  Arthur  said. 

"'Nearer  My  God  to  Thee'?"  Frank 
Parker  asked. 

"Let's  sing  'Tweedle-Dee-Dee.' " 


At  first,  the  Whirlpool  turned  slowly, 
like  an  LP  record.  In  a  few  more  seconds 
it  looked  like  a  mill  saw.  As  one  gentle- 
man remarked  who  had  just  free -loaded 
a  couple  of  frankfurters:  "They  don't  give 
you  dinner  here.  They  just  lend  it  to  you." 
The  centrifugal  force  went  to  work  and 
in  seconds  everyone  was  thrown  out  of 
the  center  into  the  trough — everyone  ex- 
cept Arthur  who  had  planted  himself  in 
dead  center  where  he  could  enjoy  the 
sight  of  his  sprawled  cast.  Carmel  Quinn, 
a  loyal  Irishwoman,  looked  like  she  was 
still  celebrating  St.  Patrick's  Day — and 
everyone  agreed  she  had  been  so  clever 
to  use  green  make-up. 

The    wheel    did    stop    finally,    and    the 
Little  Godfreys  retreated  slowly  from  the 
contraption.     Frank    Parker    was    on    his 
knees,    holding    on    to    his    hat.     Carmel 
looked    a    little    better — a    kind    of    pastel 
shade  of  green.  The  McGuires  were  crawl- 
ing out.    They  looked  pale  and  they,  too, 
had    done    something    to    their    make-up. 
Their  mouths  were  O-shaped,  like  three 
iddy  fish  in  an   iddy-bitty   pool  taking  a 
J    drag  on  a  big  cigar.    And  Janette  Davis 
y    looked    like    she    was    thinking — perhaps: 
H     "And   for  this   I  came   back   three   weeks 
early    from    the    Mediterranean."     Arthur 
was  still  chuckling. 

Arthur's   job   was    most   strenuous.    He 
78 


Holiday  Time  for  Godfrey 

kept  up  a  running  commentary  of  the 
proceedings  for  a  full  hour,  with  nothing 
in  writing  and  nothing  rehearsed.  There 
was  no  orchestra  and  no  songs.  Every- 
thing was  talk.  Mr.  G.  was  a  walking 
transmitter,  equipped  with  an  ingenious 
tiny  microphone  and  a  Budleman  trans- 
mitter, a  gadget  the  size  of  a  pack  of  ciga- 
rettes. There  were  eight  cameras  working, 
but  there  were  still  technical  limitations 
that  he  had  to  work  within.  And  then,  of 
course,  there  were  his  guests. 

It  was  no  accident  that  the  youngsters 
were  invited  from  the  Henry  Street  Set- 
tlement. The  Settlement  is  internationally 
famous  for  its  work,  and  Arthur  has  been 
one  of  its  patrons  for  many  years.  All 
year  around,  Arthur  sends  down  toys, 
cakes,  candies,  frozen  foods,  thirty-pound 
smoked  turkeys,  twenty -pound  chocolate 
gobblers,  and  the  like.  He  is  loved  and 
idolized  by  people  there.  Arthur  decided 
the  kids  would  join  him  for  the  picnic. 

Most  of  them  were  about  the  same  age 
that  Arthur  was  feeling.  To  them,  it  was 
a  kind  of  fairyland.  Everything  was  free: 
the  rides,  cotton  candy,  popcorn,  sand- 
wiches, games  of  skill,  ice  cream,  soda, 
souvenirs.  Paul  Blaufox,  Arthur's  assistant 
on  Talent  Scouts,  was  in  charge  of  the 
arrangements  for  the  children. 

"Arthur  made  certain  recommenda- 
tions," Paul  recalls.  "The  kids  were  to 
get  all  the  sandwiches  and  milk  and  ice 
cream  they  wanted,  but  were  to  get  candy 
and  stuff  only  under  supervision  of  their 
leaders  so  that  they  wouldn't  get  sick.  And 
he  insisted  that  a  doctor  and  nurse  be 
present  in  case  of  an  emergency.  We  had 
a  doctor  and  two  nurses." 

For  safety's  sake,  they  arranged  to  have 
a  paid  adult  supervisor  for  every  ten 
children.  The  youngsters  were  well  be- 
haved and  there  was  only  one  trying  mo- 
ment. Right  after  they  arrived  in  their 
buses,  at  five  P.M.  so  they  would  have 
plenty  of  time  for  the  rides,  they  were 
lined  up.  Arthur  came  out  to  look  at  them 
and,  just  as  he  got  there,  the  beautiful 
formation  began  to  break  up  and  the  kids 
were  scurrying  off  toward  one  of  the 
buildings. 

"The  kids  are  getting  away,"  he  shouted 
to  Paul. 

Paul  ran  after  them  and  then  came  back 
a  little  sheepish. 

"Arthur,  when  you  gotta  go,  you  gotta 
go,"  he  said,  "and  those  kids  gotta  go." 

Their  first  planned  activity  was  the 
eating,  and  the  conversations  were  rather 
interesting.    For  example: 

"I'm  glad  it's  not  Liberace  having  the 
picnic." 

"What's  wrong  with  Liberace?" 

"He  can  only  play  a  piano.  Godfrey 
plays  a  uke." 

At  cinother  table  the  youngsters  were 
more  concerned  with  the  production 
budget. 

"This  costs  Godfrey  plenty." 

"How  much?" 

"Well,  it  took  nine  buses  to  get  us  out 
here  at  fifteen  cents  a  person  and — " 

"This  costs  more.  These  are  chartered 
buses." 


•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


INVEST  IN 


U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 

NOW  EVEN  BETTER 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


Actually,  the  tab  for  the  kids  alone  was 
over  a  thousand  dollars.  All  together, 
Arthur  spent  about  fifteen  thousand  above 
and  beyond  the  call  of  duty.  Much  of  this 
cost  went  into  special  equipment,  extra 
technical  assistance,  lines  and  special 
transmitters  and  receivers  for  the  remote. 
To  play  safe,  most  of  the  program  was 
planned  to  come  from  the  inside  pavilion, 
a  mere  eleven  acres,  in  case  of  rain.  Even 
so,  there  was  no  lack  of  excitement.  The 
climax  of  the  first  half-hour  came  on  the 
Panama  Slide. 

A  slide,  as  you  know,  stands  about  six 
feet  high  and  is  a  plaything  for  children. 
The  Panama  Slide,  however,  rises  at  a 
45-degree  angle  to  the  unpleasant  height 
of  about  forty  feet.  High?  Well,  not  so 
high  as  the  moon,  but  when  you  stand  at 
the  bottom  and  talk  to  someone  at  the 
top,  you  shout.  And  the  shorter  you  are, 
the  higher  it  looks.  Pretty  Jan  Davis  is 
on  the  petite  side,  and  to  her  the  slide 
looked  very,  very  high.  She  got  stuck  at 
the  top. 

Arthur  led  the  pack  down.  Arms  out, 
he  came  bouncing  and  sliding  down  and 
took  a  nice  spin  at  the  base  cup.  Standing 
with  Arthur  before  he  took  off  were  the 
rest  of  the  cast. 

"I'm  not  going  down,"  said  Chris  Mc- 
Guire. 

Carmel  Quinn  sighed.  She  didn't  want 
to  go  down  the  devilish  mechanism  and, 
when  she  found  Chris  was  of  the  same 
mind,  she  just  about  threw  her  arms 
around  her.  In  the  meantime,  Phyllis 
McGuire  went  down  the  slide,  followed 
by  sister  Dotty. 

"I'm  definitely  not  going  down,"  Chris 
repeated — ^with  which  she  sat  down  on  the 
sUde,  gave  herself  a  push  and  down  she 
went. 

"And,  when  Chris  went,  I  just  resigned 
myself  to  dying,"  Carmel  recalls.  "I  closed 
my  eyes  and  kind  of  jumped." 

Her  skirts  flared  up  like  a  parachute 
and  Arthur  remarked,  "Wait'll  you  see 
yourself  on  the  kinescope,  Csirmel.  You've 
never  seen  so  much  of  yourself  in  your 
life." 

Jan  remained  seated  at  the  top,  her 
brakes  locked.  Arthur  noted  later,  "Here's 
a  gal  who  flew  the  Atlantic  Ocean  this 
morning  and  reported  to  work,  cheerful 
and  fresh,  and  now  she  won't  come  down 
a  little  old  slide.    How  can  you  figure  it?" 

Everyone  else  climbed  back  up  for  a 
repeat  slide  except  Carmel.  She  noted, 
"I've  shown  enough  leg  for  one  night. 
Husband  Bill  will  be  angry  as  it  is." 

Then  came  the  station  break  and  the 
next  half-hour  started  off  with  all  of  the 
cast  riding  the  Steeplechase  Horse  Ride, 
after  which  the  Park  is  named.  The 
Steeplechase  consists  of  iron  race  horses, 
with  double  saddles,  that  travel  on  a 
track  similar  to  a  roller  coaster.  The 
horses  race  around  the  outside  of  the 
building.  Arthur  and  Phyllis  McGuire, 
sharing  the  same  nag,  won  the  race  by 
better  than  a  full  length.  Arthur  noted 
wistfully,  "I  wish  my  own  horses  did  this 
well." 

While  Arthur  did  the  Frigidaire  com- 
mercial, the  gang  went  to  the  shooting 
gallery.  Phyllis  had  bad  luck  and  couldn't 
hit  anything.  Arthur  rejoined  the  gang 
and  showed  Phyllis  her  trouble.  Her  gun 
wasn't  loaded. 

They  moved  on  to  a  game  of  skill.  To 
win  a  kewpie  doll,  you  throw  baseballs 
through  a  csinvas  hole.  Arthur  picked  up 
a  few  balls,  threw  them,  and  every  one 
went  into  the  hole.  Wordless  and  almost 
embarrassed  by  his  marksmanship,  he 
moved  on. 


The  last  and  most  imposing  spectacle  of 
the  evening  was  Steeplechase's  Parachute 
Jump.  This  is  a  landmark  at  Coney 
Island.  It  rises  two  hundred  and  fifty 
feet — you  coxint  them  going  up.  Coming 
down,  you  swallow  them  all  at  once. 

There  are  twelve  parachutes  attached 
to  the  tower,  with  a  kind  of  swing  hang- 
ing from  each.  You  climb  onto  this  seat. 
The  machine  pulls  you  straight  up  and, 
when  you  reach  the  top,  a  spring  suddenly 
gives,  the  way  a  pair  of  suspenders  might 
bust  on  a  fat  man,  and  you  drop  fast, 
very  fast.  You  have  time  for  only  one 
thought:  "Something's  gone  wrong  with 
this  contraption  and  they're  going  to  be 
picking  me  up  in  a  basket." 

There  are  other  things  about  the  jump 
worth  noting.  The  seat,  for  example,  is  a 
padded  metal  board  not  much  wider  than 
what  you  would  find  on  a  swing.  Of 
course,  you  are  strapped  on,  but  it  doesn't 
"feel"  substantial.  And  at  night  it  is  the 
worst.  You  rise  into  a  void  with  nothing 
about  you  but  darkness  and  night  air. 
When  Arthur  came  to  the  chutes,  he 
shouted,  "Someone  get  Carmel  Quinn. 
She's  going  to  ride  with  me." 

Carmel  came  running  in,  with  someone 
pushing  from  behind.  She  took  one  look 
at  Arthur  waiting  for  her  in  the  chute  seat 
and  said,  "I've  been  praying  the  program 
would  run  long  and  we'd  never  get  to 
this  one." 

They  strapped  her  into  the  seat  with 
Arthur  and  then  took  off  her  shoes  for 
safekeeping. 

"Arthur,  please  hold  my  hand,"  she  said. 
"What  do  you  think  I  got  you  here  for," 
he  said. 

And  then  they  started  up.  Arthur,  al- 
ways a  poet,  kept  saying,  "Isn't  it  lovely, 
Carmel.  Look  out  at  the  lights  and  the 
stars  over  the  ocean.    Isn't  it  lovely?" 

And  Carmel  kept  saying,  "Oh,  dear. 
Oh,  dear." 

Everyone  went  up.  Frank  Parker  rode 
with  the  pretty  Toni  model.  She  got  a 
little  nervous  and  gave  Frank  the  same 
routine,  "Hold  my  hand."  Frank,  with 
other  things  in  mind,  grabbed  for  his  hat. 
Jan,  who  got  scared  on  the  slide,  went 
on  the  parachute  jump  twice  with  Tony 
Marvin.  "I  don't  mind  heights,"  she  ex- 
plained, "if  I  start  off  on  the  ground  hke 
on  the  chute  or  an  airplane.  It's  when  I 
start  from  the  top  that  I  get  scared." 

And  Carmel.  after  the  first  jump,  started 
to  get  off  and  Arthur  said,  "You  wouldn't 
want  to  do  another?" 

"No,  thank  you." 

"You  sure?" 

"No.  I  don't  think  so.  Unless  you  asked 
me,"  she  added  politely. 

"I'm  asking  you."  Arthur  said. 

"WeU,  all  right  then." 

Up  they  went  again. 

Then,  in  just  seconds,  the  show  was  over 
and  in  minutes  the  children  were  back  in 
the  buses  and  on  their  way  back  to  Man- 
hattan. The  McGuires  were  rushed  back 
to  the  airport  so  that  they  would  reach 
Pittsburgh  in  time  to  sing  at  their  late 
show.  Jan  went  back  home  to  iinpack  her 
bags.  Carmel  got  into  the  station  wagon 
with  her  husband  Bill. 

"It  wasn't  so  bad,  now  that  it's  all  over," 
she  said  bravely. 

"Would  you  like  to  come  back  tomor- 
row and  go  on  the  rides  with  me?"  her 
husband  asked. 

She  shut  up. 

Arthur  was  one  of  the  last  of  the  cast 
to  leave  the  Park,  and  you  can  bet  it  was 
wistfiilly.  If  he  said  it  once,  he  said  it 
two  dozen  times:  "I've  never  had  so  much 
fun.    This  is  just  great." 

And  that  big  laugh  of  his.  That  will  be 
ringing  around  the  carrousel  and  giant 
slide  for  years  to  come. 


OPPORTUNITIES 


Publisher'*  Claasified  Department  (Trademark) 


FOR  EVERYBODY 


for  classified  advertiiing  rales,  v/rite  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicogo  6  (Sepf.-Wom.)   5 


FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 


DEMONSTRATORS  — $25  -  $40  DAILY.  Our  lingerie,  Ap- 
parel Style  Showings  are  sensation  of  Party  Plan  Selling. 
Isatiel  Sharrqw  made  $258—11  days,  sparetimel  Free  Outfit. 
Beeline  Fashions,  Bensenville  377,  III. 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  UP  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous  Hollywood  Cosmetics,  your  neighborhood.  Free 
Samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  Dept.  P-95, 

Glendale,  Calif. 

MAKE  MONEY  AT  Home  sewing  ties,  spare  time.  We  supply 
pre-cut  materials  and  instructions.  Free  details:  Jud-San,  E. 
105,  Dept.  H-1,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

lyiAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 
display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept.  P-3359,  Cincinnati 

25.  Ohio. [ 

EARN  AT  HOME  with  assignment  we  send.  $20  -  $50  weekly 
possible.   Other  self  employment  offers  listed.  Free  details: 

Maxwell,  Dept.  B-9,  Cleveland  14  Ohio. 

IMMEDIATE  OPENINGS.  WORK  at  home.  Part-time,  full 
time.  All  ages.  Write  Dept.  56,  Webster-Kerr,  120  Elm  Street, 

Orange,  N.J. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.    Experience   unnecessary.   Crown    Industries,  7159-8 

Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY.  Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B. 
Dunbar,  Dept.  G9,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
pay.    Experience   unnecessary.   California   Handicrafts,    Los 

Angeles  46,  Calif. 

FASCINATING  PIECE  WORK  at  Homel  No  selling  I  We  pay 

you  I  Truart,  Box  438,  Pasadena,  California. 

ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOME  sewing  Baby  Shoes.  Details  3c. 

Thompson's,  Loganville  2,  Wisconsin. 

$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.    Easy.    Write,    Studio 

Company,  Greenville  7,  Penna. 

A  DRESS  SHOP  in  your  home.  No  investment.  Liberal  sales 
commissions.  Write  Bellecraft  Fashions,  111  YZ  Eighth  Ave., 

New  York. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 
YOUR  OWN  WHOLESALE  Hosiery-Underwear  Business 
pays  you  up  to  40%  profit.  No  investment,  no  inventory.  Sensa- 
tional new  "Stretch"  Nylons  direct  from  Mill.  Guaranteed 
runproof.  Offer  Free-Trial  pair.  Catalog,  money-making  Plans 
Free   American  Mills,  Dept.  471.  Indianapolis  7. 


WOMEN  I  SEW  READY-Cut  Neckties  at  Home.  No  Experi- 
ence Necessary.  No  Selling.  No  Machine  Needed.  Details 
Free.  Neckwear  Supply,  P.O.  Box  2066-P,  Inglewood  4,  Calif. 
CASH!  SPARE  TIME,  making  scented  Orchids.  Experience 
unnecessary.  Boycan  Industries,  Dept.  29,  Palm  Springs,  Calif. 
$200   WEEKLY   CLEANING   Venetian    Blinds.   Free   book. 

Burtt.  2434BR,  Wichita  13,  Kansas. 

MAIL  ORDER  CATALOGS 


FREE  FALL  CATALOG— Aldens  604-page  1956  Fashion 
Guidel  All  fashion,  family  and  home  needs.  Lowest  prices  any- 
where .  . .  Money-back  satisfaction  guaranteed  alwaysl  Send 
for  your  Free  Catalog  today.  Aldens,  Dept.  455,  Chicago  80, 

Illinois. ^ 

MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog  (Plain  Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers;  $2.98  to  $22.98.  Cravrford's, 

D e pt  141,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

MlJNEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  SHED.  Spare, full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid  Babbitt  $4165.00  in 
few  weeks.  Free  Book.  Washington  Mushroom  Ind.,  Dept 
164,  2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle  6,  Wash. 
60%  PROFIT  COSMETICS.  $25  day  up.  Hire  others. 
Samples,    details.    Studio  Girl-Hollywood,   Glendale,   Calif. 

Dept.  P-95b. 

STUFFING-MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how.  Dept  G-9,  Education  Publishers,  4043  St.  Clair,  Cleve- 

land  3,  Ohio. 

OPERATE    PROFITABLE    MAIL    order    business.    Write 
Walter  Service,  4159-X  East  112th,  Cleveland  5,  Ohio. 
EARN   SPARE  TIME  cash   mailing  advertising  literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

EARN  AT  HOME,  preparing  mail  for  advertisers.  Tem-Let 

Box  946,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 

fundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  Immediate  Commissions! 
Everything  Furnished  I  Hirsch's,  1301-C  Hoe,  New  York 
City  59. 


PREPARE  ENVELOPES,  AT  Home,  Spare  Time.  $50.00 
Thousand  Possible.  How — $1.00.  Fisher,  Box  9243,  Houston 
11,  Texas. 


EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Di- 
ploma.    Information    booklet  free.    American   School,    Dept 

X674,  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. . 

HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes.  Study  at  home.  Spare  time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog  HCH-26.  Wayne 

School,  2527  N.  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. , 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144-W, 

Station  E,  Atlanta  Georgia. 

CARTOONING  t  COMMERCIAL  ART 
"HOW  TO  MAKE  Money  with  Simple  Cartoons"— A  book 
everyone  who  likes  to  draw  should  have.  It  is  free;  no  obliga- 
tion.   Simply    address    Cartoonists'    Exchange,    Dept    689, 

Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio. _^_^_ 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoln 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61 -DP,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 


CHILDREN'S  PHOTOS  WANTED  (all  ages).  High  fees 
paid  by  advertisers  for  use  in  magazines,  calendars,  bill- 
boards. Send  one  small  photo  for  approval — returned  two 
weeks.  Print  child's,  parent's  name,  address  on  back.  No 
obligation.    National    Photo  Exhibitors,   406-P3   N.   Beverly 

Drive,  Beverly  Hills,  California. 

FREE— BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalog!  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you,  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances,  Christmas  cards  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
part  time!  Write:  Evergreen  Studios,   Box  846-C,  Chicago 

42,  III. ^ 

IN  SPARE  TIME  at  home,  complete  high  school  with  58- 
year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma.  In- 
formation booklet  free.  American  School,  Dept.  Z674,  Drexel 

at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Wanted  Items  from  Your  News- 
paper for  Publishers.  Some  worth  up  to  $10.00  Each!!  Write 
for  information.  Newscraft,  PW-983-E.  Main,  Ckilumbus  5,  O. 
SPARE  TIME  EARNINGS  selling  exclusive  dress,  suit 
fabrics.  Samples  supplied  insure  immediate  profits.  Buckley 

Bros.,  Box  116,  Pelham,  N.Y. 

SEW  BABY  SHOES!  No  canvassing!  $40  weekly  possiblel 
Send  stamped,  addressed  envelope.  Baby  Shoes,  Warsaw 

2,  Indiana. 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 

possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling 
chenille    monkey    trees.    Literature    free.    Velva,    Bohemia 

32,  N.Y. 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  mailing  advertising  literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

$100  MONTHLY  FOR  doing  assembly  work  at  home.  Ken- 

craft,  Selma,  Indiana. 

PERSONAL 
BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men 
and  women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  endor- 
sers. Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details  free  in 
plain    envelope.   Give   occupation.    State   Finance   Co.,   323 

Securities  BIdg.,  Dept.  J-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Discovery!  Free 
Trial  Offer.  Write  Pixacol,  Box  3583- C,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  Types.  Foreign,  U.S.A.  Chance 
to  travel.  Many  benefits.  Application  Forms.  Free  Informa- 
tion. Write  Dept.  73K,   National    Employment  Information, 

1020  Broad,  Newark,  New  Jersey. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

RUN  SPARE-TIME  Greeting  Card  and  Gift  Shop  at  home. 
Show  friends  samples  of  our  new  1955  Christmas  and  All- 
Occasion  Greeting  Cards  and  Gifts.  Take  their  orders  and 
earn  to  100%  profit.  No  experience  necessary.  Costs  nothing 
to  try.  Write  today  for  samples  on  approval.  Regal  Greetings, 

Dept  85,  Ferndale,  Michigan. 

ADD  TO  FAMILY  Income.  Unlimited  earnings.  Work  in 
spare  time  demonstrating  household  plastics  and  toys.  No 
canvassing   or  experience   necessary.   Halliday,  2-16  State 

Highway  5,  Dept.  B,  Palisades  Park,  N.J. 

NEED  EXTRA  CASH?  Get  it  selling  Blair's  unusual  line  of 
household  and  food  products.  Every  housewife  a  prospect 
Products    sent    on    Free  Trial.    Write    Blair,    Dept    185S 

Lynchburg,  Va. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED 
ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics — nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  free.  Hoover 

Dept  T-119,  New  York  11,  N.Y. 

NEW  BATHROOM  DEODORIZER.  Hangs  on  wall.  Ban- 
ishes  odors  bathroom,  kitchen.  Lightning  seller.  Samples  sent 

on  trial.  Kristee  146,  Akron,  Ohio. 

INSTRUCTION 
WORK  FOR  U.S.  Govt  I   Men-Women,  18-55.  Start  high 
as  $80.00  week.  Qualify  Now!  23,000  jobs  open.  Experience 
often  unnecessary.  Get  Free  36-page  book  showing  jobs 
salaries,  requirements,  sample  tests.  Write:  Franklin  Insti- 

tute,  Dept.  E-37,  Rochester,  N.Y. 

TRY  WRITING  A  story— Order  my  Fiction  Writing  Facts 
$1.00.  Order  my  novel  "The  Treasure  of  Painted  Mountain" 

$3.00.  Both  $3.50.  Will  Wagner,  Dinuba,  Calit 

ADDITIONAL  INCOME 
EARN  READY  CASH  doing  mailing  work.  No  experience 
needed.  F.  Wilson  Business  Service,  2875  Glendale  Blvd_ 

Los  Angeles  39,  Calit 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 
WOMEN— NEAT,  WITH  sewing  machine.  Eight  profitabia 
easy  sewing  projects.  Write  Liebig  System,  Beaver  Dam  4, 

Wisconsin. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 
EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept  WP-17,  Chicago 

32,  Illinois. 

SPARE  TIME  OPPORTUNITIES 
TURN  YOUR  SPARE  Time  into  Profits!  Friends,  neighbors, 
relatives  buy  these  unusual  gifts,  gadgets,  gift  wraps,  greeting 
cards  on  sigM.  Over  600  new  items — up  to  100%  Profit!  Send 
for  sensational  money-making  Free  Catalog  now — make  big 
money  on  Christmas  sales!  Samples  on  approval.  Greetings 

Unlimited,  1405  Park  Square,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 

NURSING  SCHOOLS 

EASILY  MAKE  $65  wk.  as  Practical  Nurse.  Learn  quickly 
at  home.  No  high  school  necessary,  no  age  limit.  Write  today 
for  free  booklet  lessons.  Post  Graduate  School  of  Nursing, 
21E95  Auditorium  BIdg.,  Chicago. 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 


A  few  drops  of  OTJTGEO®  bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  ingrown  nail.  OUTGEO  tough- 
ens the  sMn  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OUTGEO  Is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


PestroV^^^/Forever 


■  Only  by  KILUNG  THE  HAIR  ROOT  eon  yooUwrti 
r  UNWANTED  HAIR  Ii  GONE  FOREVER.  Brin^f  relW / 
'  and  toctal  happineu.  Do  not  vs«  ovr  method  unHI  f 
F  you  hovo  read  our  instruction  book  carefulty  and  i 
J  learned  to  uie  the  MAHLER  METHOD  tof^  ond  j 
r  efficiently.  Used  wceeMfulIy  over  fifty  y«an. 


Send  S"^  TODAY  fOR  booklet 


MAHIERS,  INC      DepL  59-M         PROVIDENCE  IS.  R.  I. 


79 


{Continued  from  page  58) 
over  this  shyness.  He  did  so — and,  once 
again,  he  was  seated  in  the  first  row,  first 
seat.  And,  the  very  first  day,  he  was  the 
first  student  called  upon  to  perform — up 
on  the  stage,  in  front  of  the  entire  class. 
There  was  no  way  out.  The  teacher  had 
just  told  the  class:  "Get  over  your  bash- 
fulness.  When  you're  called  upon  to  do 
a  scene  or  act  out  a  pantomime,  never  say 
you're  not  prepared.  Just  get  up  and 
do  the  best  you  can.  That  way,  you  won't 
build  up  any  mental  blocks." 

Tod  got  up,  shaking  and  perspiring,  and 
made  his  painful  way  to  the  stage.  At 
least,  he  didn't  have  to  speak.  The  as- 
signment was  to  do  a  pantomime  on  any 
subject  he  chose,  and  the  class  would  try 
to  guess  what  it  was.  Tod  decided  he 
would  imitate  a  man  hunting  butterflies. 
Waving  an  imaginary  net,  he  darted  about 
the  stage  in  hot  pursuit  of  the  elusive 
creatures.  No  one  had  the  least  notion 
what  he  was  trying  to  do,  and  when  he 
told  the  class,  "Catching  butterflies,"  they 
howled.  Tod  tried  again.  Only,  this  time, 
he  did  something  no  one  could  miss — a 
man  swinging  a  golf  club.  The  class  guessed 
it  and  he  returned  to  his  seat,  dizzy  with 
relief. 

"And  then  I  noticed,"  Tod  recalls,  "that 
when  the  other  students  got  up  to  perform, 
they  were  just  as  shy  and  bashful  as  I. 
We  were  no  different.  And,  somehow,  re- 
alizing that  we  were  all  in  the  same  kettle 
gave  me  confidence  in  myself." 

Tod's  new-found  self-confidence  soon 
revealed  a  genuine  acting  talent,  and  he 
decided  to  make  a  career  in  the  theater. 
By  following  his  first  teacher's  advice — 
Just  get  up  and  do  the  hest  you  can — he 
has  not  only  had  ten  successful  years  in 
television,  stage  and  motion  pictures,  but 
can  no\v  be  seen  five  times  every  week 
playing  the  male  lead  in  NBC-TV's  popu- 
lar daytime  drama.  First  Love.  So  that,  if 
Tod  is  still  concerned  about  shyness,  it's 
not  for  himself — it's  for  others. 

"All  the  sad,  lonely  people  in  the  world!" 
he  says,  shaking  his  head  in  genuine  con- 
cern. "If  they  could  just  get  over  their 
bashfulness — the  fears  and  hesitations  that 
keep  them  apart  from  the  rest  of  the 
world." 

For  the  wonder  to  Tod,  in  his  own  ex- 
perience, is  not  that  he  got  over  shyness 
to    become    a    star    of   television    and    the 


Help  Yourself  to  Living 

stage,  but  that  he  got  over  shyness — and 
came  "into  contact  with  life."  Much  as 
he  loves  acting,  it's  only  the  way  he 
makes  his  living.  The  important  thing 
is  life  itself.  And  maybe  that's  why,  when 
you  ask  him  about  his  career,  he  can  re- 
member the  roles  he's  portrayed  and  the 
stages  he's  trod  upon — not  as  professional 
milestones,  but  as  personal  ones.  "That's 
the  time  I  met  Gloria,"  he'll  say.  Or: 
"That's  when  the  baby  was  born.  .  .  ." 

He  himself  was  born  on  Noveniber  10, 
1920,  in  Buffalo,  New  York.  His  father 
died  when  he  was  four,  and  his  mother — a 
piano  teacher — moved  her  family  to  Holly- 
wood because  Buffalo  was  "too  cold." 
("I've  a  sister,"  Tod  says,  "who's  now  hap- 
pily married  to  a  banker  in  San  Fran- 
cisco.") 

To  "Tod,  it  is  significant  that  before  he 
overcame  shyness,  he  wanted  to  be  a 
writer.  Not  being  part  of  the  world  about 
him,  the  urge  was  strong  to  create  a  world 
of  his  own.  After  his  first  day  in  the 
dramatics  class,  however,  he  was  no  longer 
content  to  observe  life — he  wanted  to  par- 
ticipate in  life  himself.  Three  weeks  later, 
he  was  not  only  directing  and  playing  the 
lead  in  a  short  play,  but  doing  something 
about  his  writing  by  working  on  the 
school  paper. 

While  still  attending  Los  Angeles  High 
School,  he  organized  some  of  his  class- 
mates into  a  group  that  put  on  plays  at 
a  local  movie  house — between  showings 
of  the  film.  The  entire  company  received 
a  total  of  two  dollars  for  each  perform- 
ance, but  at  least  they  were  paid.  They 
were  professionals!  And  the  idea  had  al- 
ready occurred  to  Tod  that  he  might  make 
acting  his  career. 

He  continued  his  dramatic  studies  at 
Washington  State  College,  where  he  ma- 
jored in  speech  and  journalism,  then 
joined  the  Pasadena  Playhouse,  where  he 
appeared  in  some  twenty-five  produc- 
tions. On  Broadway,  he  made  his  debut 
in  "Quiet,  Please,"  co-starring  Jane  Wyatt. 
Later,  he  acted  in  Maxwell  Anderson's 
"Storm  Operation."  It  was  his  role  as  the 
Brazilian  admiral,  however,  in  "My  Sister 
Eileen,"  which  led  to  a  Hollywood  film 
contract. 

Although  he  appeared  in  a  number  of 
movies,  none  of  Tod's  roles  was  as  ex- 
citing as  the  chance  to  play  the  "tall, 
dark    and    handsome"    leading   man    in    a 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


80 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward   on   .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every  Wednesday  Evening  on  MUTUAL  Stations 


Read  "BORN  A  KILLER" — the  true  case  history  of  George  Heroux,  whose 
adviser  was  a  murderer— in  September  TRUE  DETECTIVE  MAGAZINE 
at  newsstands  now. 


Mae  West  stage  play,  "Come  On  Up,  Ring 
Twice."  It  was  while  touring  with  this 
show  that  he  met  Gloria  Folland. 

"We  were  playing  in  Chicago,"  he  re- 
calls. "A  friend  of  mine  in  the  cast  kept 
telling  me  about  this  beautiful  red- 
headed girl  who  was  also  in  Chicago,  play- 
ing in  "Up  in  Central  Park."  She  had  also 
gone  to  the  Pasadena  Playhouse,  so  my 
friend  thought  the  way  was  clear  for  me 
to  introduce  myself." 

Tod  did.  He  invited  her  out  for  coffee. 
And,  just  six  months  later,  they  were  mar- 
ried. 

Not  that  anything  in  show  business  is 
ever  that  simple.  Tod  was  in  Chicago 
six  weeks.  Gloria's  show  played  there 
longer.  And  their  tours  took  them  in 
opposite  directions.  It  wasn't  until  they 
met  in  Washington,  D.  C,  that  they  were 
able  to  "line  up  a  license,  et  cetera."  The 
ceremony  itself  finally  took  place  in  Kan- 
sas City,  on  January  15,  1947. 

All  of  which  explains  why  the  An- 
drewses  were  so  glad  to  spend  the  next 
three  seasons  in  Dallas,  Texas,  acting  in 
Margo  Jones'  theater-in-the-round.  It 
meant  a  chance  to  play  a  greater  variety 
of  roles  than  would  be  possible  on  Broad- 
way. But,  more  important,  it  gave  the 
newlyweds  a  chance  to  lead  a  settled 
life.  And  it  was  here  that  Tod  got  his 
first  big  break  in  the  theater. 

When  Margo  Jones  tried  out  Tennessee 
Williams'  "Summer  and  Smoke,"  Tod 
played  the  part  of  the  roistering  young 
doctor  so  effectively  that  he  was  asked  to 
duplicate  his  performance  for  the  New 
York  production.  Gloria  joined  him  as 
an  understudy  in  the  same  show. 

It  was  on  tour  with  "Summer  and 
Smoke"  that  Tod  got  his  second  big  break 
in  the  theater — though  he  didn't  realize  it 
at  the  time.  Joshua  Logan,  the  director 
of  so  many  Broadway  hits,  caught  the 
show  in  New  Orleans  and  came  backstage 
afterwards  to  congratulate  Tod  on  his 
performance. 

"I  remember  shaking  his  hand  when  he 
left,"  Tod  recalls,  "and  saying,  'I'd  like  to 
work  for  you  someday.'  I  don't  know  why 
I  said  it,  except  that  I  meant  it." 

Some  time  later,  when  Tod  auditioned 
for  the  title  role  in  the  touring  company 
of  "Mr.  Roberts,"  it  was  necessary  to  get 
final  approval  from  Mr.  Logan  before  the 
producer  could  give  him  the  part.  Only 
Mr.  Logan  happened  to  be  in  Paris,  and 
he  had  only  seen  Tod  that  once  in  New 
Orleans — in  a  completely  different  kind 
of  role.  Nevertheless,  he  cabled  the  pro- 
ducer to  give  Tod  the  part. 

"I  asked  him  about  it  later,"  Tod  ex- 
plains. "How  did  he  know  I  could  do 
it?  And  he  told  me  it  was  the  way  I  said 
I  wanted  to  work  for  him  someday.  I  was 
so  sincere,  he  knew  I  was  right  for 
'Roberts'." 

For  the  next  two  and  a  half  seasons. 
Tod  played  "Mr.  Roberts,"  from  coast  to 
coast  and  throughout  Canada.  In  Wash- 
ington, the  President  and  Mrs.  Truman, 
accompanied  by  General  and  Mrs.  Mar- 
shall, saw  the  show  and  came  backstage 
afterwards. 

"It  was  the  high  spot  of  our  tour,"  Tod 
recalls.  "The  President  said  that  he  didn't 
know  when  he  had  spent  so  enjoyable 
an  evening  and  that  we  made  him  forget 
all  his  troubles." 

That  was  in  1951 — and  that  was  when 
Tod  was  selected  to  read  the  I  Am  an 
American  Day  proclamation  for  the  Presi- 
dent on  the  Capitol  steps. 

Following  his  success  in  "Mr.  Roberts," 
Tod  appeared  in  the  Broadway  comedy, 
"A  Girl  Can  Tell,"  then  took  over  the 
Joseph  Gotten  role  in  "Sabrina  Fair."    He 


was  also  active  in  television,  playing  lead 
roles  in  many  of  the  top  dramatic  shows. 
The  one  he  enjoyed  most  was  the  title 
role  in  The  Hallmark  Hall  Of  Favie  pres- 
entation of  "The  Life  of  Lord  Byron." 
So  far  as  Tod  is  concerned,  however,  the 
biggest  break  in  his  career  came  last  April 
11,  when  he  began  playing  the  role  of 
Zachary-  James  in  First  Love. 

"Television  is  getting  bigger  and  bigger," 
he  says,  "and  every  actor  wants  to  grow 
with  the  medivun.  On  the  night-time  dra- 
matic shows,  you're  lucky  if  you  get  one  to 
do  a  month.  Bxit,  in  daytime  drama,  you 
can  be  acting  five  times  a  week.  And  it's 
a  wonderful  training  ground.  I  know  that 
now,  after  doing  five  shows  a  week  on 
daytime  drama,  whenever  I  appear  on  a 
dramatic  show  it  goes  like  a  breeze.  They 
give  you  ten  days  to  prepare  a  script.  I'm 
used  to  one." 

The  difference,  oif  course,  is  that — when 
you're  playing  the  same  role  five  times  a 
week — "you  get  to  know  the  character 
and  then  you  can  relax."  Tod  feels  par- 
ticularly lucky  in  his  present  assignment 
because  he  not  only  kitows  the  character 
he  portrays  on  First  Love,  he's  very  fond 
of  him.  "Zach's  a  wonderful  person,"  Tod 
says,  "with  great  integrity  and  a  feeling 
for  humanity.  He's  striving  for  perfec- 
tion, yet  he's  very  down-to-earth." 

But,  just  as  an  artist  paints  a  picture 
and  doesn't  see  that  it's  really  a  portrait 
of  himself,  so  Tod  isn't  aware — when  he 
talks  about  Zacii — that  he's  also  describ- 
ing someone  very  like  himself.  Although 
he  has  had  ten  years  of  uninterrupted 
success  as  a  leading  man,  Tod  is  still 
"striving  for  perfection."  Twice  every 
week,  he  attends  Sandy  Mizener's  class  for 
Professional  Actors  at  the  Neighborhood 
Playhouse  in  New  York.  (By  accident, 
his  partner  in  the  class  turned  out  to  be 
the  same  girl  who  plays  his  partner  on 
TV — Patricia  Barry.)  He  also  takes  sing- 
ing  lessons. 

"I  believe  an  actor  should  work  at 
everything,"  he  says,  "and  never  stop 
learning,    never    stop    growing." 

But  the  real  growth.  Tod  insists — for 
he's  every  bit  as  "down-to-earth"  as  Zach- 
arj-  James  on  TV — must  come  as  a  person. 
And,  once  you  know  what  you  want  as 
a  human  being,  it's  good  if  you  can  adapt 
your  job  to  the  way  you  want  to  live — 
not  vice  versa.  That's  why,  as  far  as  Tod 
is  concerned,  from  now  on  "the  theater 
is  just  a  hobby." 

"It  never  allowed  us  a  real  home  life," 
he  explains.  And,  while  he  hopes  to  do 
a  play  this  fall,  it  will  have  to  be  in  New 
York  where  his  TV  show  originates. 

The  "us"  now  includes  Tod  Walter, 
aged  three.  And,  while  young  Tod  would 
Uke  nothing  better  than  to  go  scampering 
about  the  coxmtry  on  tour,  his  parents 
happen  to  have  other  plans  for  him.  "I 
want  him  to  be  a  good  man,  a  good 
citizen,"  Tod  says,  "and  that  starts  in  a 
good  home." 

Thanks  to  First  Love,  he  and  Gloria 
can  finally  settle  down  in  the  kind  of 
"permanent  home"  they've  always  dreamed 
of.  At  present,  if s  an  apartment  with 
a  terrace  in  Manhattan,  but  Gloria  is 
busily  scouring  the  svirrounding  country- 
side for  a  house,  cc«nplete  with  roots — 
cind  a  few  trees. 

For  Tod,  it's  something  new — not  awak- 
ening in  a  strange  hotel  room  in  a  strange 
town,  called  on  the  phone  by  a  strange 
operator.  Now,  every  morning,  a  red- 
headed youngster  comes  charging  into  the 
bedroom,   "yelling   and   hoUering." 

"Nothing  shy  about  him,"  Tod  says  with 
a  pleased  grin.  "He  won't  have  to  become 
an  actor  to  get  over  his  bashfukxess.  He 
was  in  contact  with  life  the  day  he  was 
bom." 


ARE  YOU  "ALL  MOUTH" 
-AND   NO   EYES? 


If  you  use  lipstick,  you  need  MAYBELLINE  eye  make-up  to  accent 
your  eyes — for  real  beauty  is  balanced  beauty. 

Your  eyes  are  your  most  important  feature!  Don't  leave  them 
"washed-out  looking"  in  contrast  to  a  vividly  made-up  mouth. 

Make    your   eyes   truly    lovely   today  —  quickly    and    easily  —  with 


PREFERRED       BY       SAAART 
V^O^AE^J     THE     WORLD    OVER 


EYE       SHADOW     •     EYEBROW       PENCIL     •     MASCARA 


Genuine 


LUCKY  STARFISH 


Surrounded  by  exquisite 
real  sea  shells  and  set 
into  our  own  lovely  re- 
production of  an  antique 
watchcase.  See-thru  un- 
breakable crystal  front 
and  back!  You'll  marvel 
at  the  originality  of  this 
genuine  starfish!  Watch- 
case  and  chain  exquis- 
itely finished.  A  real 
conversation    piece! 

Massive   Bracelet  $1.98 
Necklace  to  Match  1.98 
Earrings  to   Match  1.98 
Ensemble  of  All 
3   Pieces    5.00 


Foreign  Coin  Bracelet 


Seven  genuine  foreign  coins 
mounted  on  a  massive  link 
bracelet.  The  rage  in  Holly- 
wood now! 

MASSIVE  BRACELET  $1.98 
NECKUCETO  MATCH  1.98 
EARRINGS  TO  MATCH  1.98 
ENSEMBLE  OF  ALL 
3  PIECES   5.00 


RUSH  ORDER  TODAY 


Mercury  Jewelry  Co.  Dept.  WG-955 

112  Main  St.,  Ossininq,  N.  Y. 

Send  me   the   items   checked   below.   I 

enclose  $ (No  C.O.D.) 

LUCKY  STARFISH 

D  Bracelet  Q  Necklace  D  Earrings  D  Set 

FOREIGN  COINS 

D  Bracelet  D  Necklace  D  Earrings  D  Set 

Name 


Please  Print 


Street 

City State 

Prices  include  Federal  Tax — Postage  Prepaid 


QUATRELLE 
4-WAY  BRA 


STMPl£SS 


3^X 
DEF-SHflUlDCR 


*•«  GUARANTOO  FOR  1  YEAR,  »* 

No  matter  how  you  wear  it, 

this  versatile  all-year  bra 

flatters  you  wth  its  permanent 

fullness  for  added  attraction !  4  bras  in  1 

for  every  dress  style.  Pre-shrunk  cotton, 

eyelet  trim,  A  &  B  cups.  Style  327  ^iqq 

only    '   ■ 

write  for  nearest  store: 

STARDUST  INC.,  EMPIRE  STATE  BLOC,  NEW  YORK  1 


81 


(Continued  from  page  49) 
"you  should  catch  him  before  he  gets  up 
some  morning — with  four  kids  rolling  on 
top  of  him  in  bed,  with  the  dog  barking 
and  the  cat  scurrying  around!  I  sometimes 
wonder  if  he  will  come  out  of  it  in  one 
piece,  but  I  have  learned  he  doesn't  want 
to  be  rescued.  He's  having  more  fun  than 
anyone  else." 

The  kids  are  really  Bill's  recreation.  He 
loves  to  swim,  and  it's  a  big  day  when 
they  all  go  off  to  the  beach.  He  plays  golf 
a  little,  would  like  to  play  much  more  fre- 
quently. But  he's  not  an  amateur  cook  or 
even  a  Mr.  Fix-It  around  the  house.  The 
last  time  he  tried  to  fix  a  curtain  rod,  he 
backed  into  the  sliding  doors  of  a  closet 
and  pushed  them  off  the  rimners,  and 
now  they  have  decided  it's  simpler  to  get 
a  handyman  in  the  first  place.  He  has  one 
new  hobby,  and  that's  painting.  It  started 
when  he  was  in  "Me  and  Juliet,"  and 
there  was  leisure  time  between  scenes. 
Otherwise,  he  lives  for  his  work,  and  the 
family. 

Although  they  first  dated  as  college 
juniors.  Bill  and  Mary  knew  each  other 
when  they  both  went  to  Thornton  Town- 
ship High  School,  in  Illinois,  about  fifty 
miles  out  of  Chicago.  "He  didn't  give  me 
a  timible  during  those  years,"  Mary  says. 
"In  the  first  place,  he  was  two  years  older 
than  I,  and  two  years  ahead  of  me  at 
school.  He  was  known  as  a  BTO — Big  Time 
Operator — who  was  in  everything:  clubs, 
minstrel  shows,  on  the  swimming  and  track 
teams,  cheer-leading,  playing  in  the  school 
orchestra  and  in  dance  bands,  heading  the 
Youth  Choir  at  his  chiirch.  He  lived  in 
Harvey,  near  the  school,  and  I  had  to  take 
a  train  in,  from  where  I  lived.  I  admired 
him  from  afar  for  a  couple  of  years,  and 
then  he  graduated,  before  he  was  seven- 
teen, and  I  didn't  see  him  for  a  while." 

Bill  went  on  to  DePauw  University,  in 
near-by  Greencastle,  Indiana,  but  the  war 
was  on  and,  the  next  year,  he  enlisted  in 
the  U.S.  Naval  Air  Corps,  hoping  to  be- 
come a  flyer.  Instead,  he  was  kept  at  De- 
Pauw for  another  eight  months,  then  sent 
to  ground  school,  to  pre -flight  training 
and  primary  flight  training.  Before  he 
graduated  to  advanced  training,  the  war 
was  over.  All  through  this  period,  how- 
ever, he  had  added  his  bit  by  singing  and 
playing  at  benefits  in  veterans'  hospitals. 

When  he  was  discharged  from  the  Navy, 
he  went  back  to  DePauw  to  finish  college, 
but  now  he  had  lost  two  years — and  Mary 
had  caught  up  with  him.  Both  were  com- 
pleting their  sophomore  year.  They  saw 
each  other  again,  but  Mary  was  interested 
in  a  boy  from  Brooklyn  and  Bill  was  just 
interested  in  readjusting  to  civilian  life — 
until  a  Christmas  vacation  made  him  ask 
his  cousin  about  girls  who  might  be  in- 
terested in  a  date. 

That  first  date  with  Mary  was  almost 
disastrous,  because  they  stopped  for  a 
late  snack  and  time  must  have  stood  still 
for  the  express  purpose  of  letting  them 
discover  each  other.  When  they  came  out 
of  the  restaurant,  they  realized  it  was 
long  past  the  hour  when  Mary  was  ex- 
pected home. 

"It  was  snowing,"  she  recalls,  "and,  when 

we  got  to  my  house.  Bill  carried  me  from 

the  car  because  I  had  taken  off  my  light, 

open-toe  slippers  and  was  carrying  them. 

My  father  was  waiting  up  and,  as  Bill  set 

me  down.   Daddy  opened  the   front  door. 

T    I  murmured,  'Daddy,  I  would  like  you  to 

V    meet    Bill    Hayes.'    My    father    mumbled, 

H    'How-do-you-do'  and  looked  stern.  'Come 

into  the  house,  Mary,'  was  all  he  said,  and 

I  went — with  barely  a  good-night  nod  to 

Bill.  But  Bill  telephoned  the  next  day." 

82 


Early  to  Love 

Six  weeks  later  they  were  both  in  the 
library,  and  she  thought  Bill  was  lost  in 
study,  until  he  suddenly  looked  up  at  her. 
"How  would  you  like  to  go  steady?"  he 
asked.  She  said  yes,  but  there  was  a  little 
matter  of  a  couple  of  dates  ahead  that 
would  have  to  be  kept — or  broken.  "Break 
them,"  Bill  said.  After  that,  neither  dated 
anyone  else. 

He  had  lost  his  fraternity  pin  and  had 
to  borrow  one  so  they  could  be  "pinned" 
in  solemn  ceremony,  with  their  friends  as 
witnesses.  Bill  serenaded  her  with  "One 
Alone."  Mary  has  a  sweet  voice,  but  was 
too  shy  to  sing  back  to  him.  Her  knees 
were  shaking  a  little,   anyway. 

This  was  in  January.  Mary  got  her  en- 
gagement ring  on  Mother's  Day.  "I  didn't 
know  how  prophetic  that  date  was  at  the 
time,"  she  says.  The  following  February, 
they  were  married — on  a  Saturday — and 
went  back  to  their  classes  on  Monday, 
living  in  a  room  at  first,  then  finishing 
their  senior  year  in  a  GI  barracks  for 
married  couples  on  the  campus.  Later, 
they  moved  in  with  Mary's  folks  and  then 
Bill's.  But,  before  Carrie  was  born,  they 
knew  they  had  to  have  a  place  of  their 
own.  The  only  one  they  could  find  was  an 
old  store  converted  into  an  apartment. 
When  it  rained  the  basement  filled  up 
with  water  and  Bill  was  always  bailing 
out  the  place.  But  they  didn't  mind.  Bill 
was  always  earning  with  his  music,  and 
they  managed. 

Later,  he  took  an  iiftensive  two-week 
course  in  choral  singing  and  then  went  on 
to  Fred  Waring's  Workshop  at  Shawnee, 
Pennsylvania,  for  more  training.  While  he 
was  a  student  there,  he  got  an  audition 
with  Waring,  who  advised  him  to  keep 
on  studying.  At  this  point,  Bill  was  a  little 
discouraged,  so  they  went  back  home  to 
Harvey.  His  brother  Phil  had  seen  an  ad- 
vertisement for  chorus  singers  for  the 
Rodgers  and  Hammerstein  musical,  "Car- 
rousel," and — more  in  fun  than  in  expec- 
tation— he  answered  it.  Bill  found  his 
brother  ill  with  a  bad  throat,  and  an  ap- 
pointment card  to  audition.  It  was  an  easy 
matter  to  change  the  name  of  Phil  to  Bill 
on  the  card,  so  Bill  showed  up  for  the 
try-out,  cracked  on  a  high  A,  but  got  the 
job. 

"Up  to  that  time,  I  never  thought  any- 
one could  make  really  big  money  singing," 
says  Bill,  "and,  when  I  learned  the  sal- 
aries the  stars  got,  it  was  a  revelation  to 
me.  It  gave  me  a  new  slant  on  singing  for 
a  living."  He  spoke  his  first  line  in 
"Carrousel,"  pushing  an  ice-cream  cart 
across  the  stage.  It  was  his  professional 
debut  as  a  singer-actor. 

The  end  result  was  to  inspire  him  to  get 
more  musical  education,  so  he  enrolled 
at  Northwestern  University,  in  Chicago, 
to  work  for  a  master's  degree  in  music, 
putting  in  some  serious  study  on  the  violin, 
an  instrument  which  he  had  started  to  play 
while  still  in  grade  school.  (Although  he 
reads  music  very  well,  he  still  plays  the 
piano  by  ear,  having  started  that  way.) 
With  a  daughter  to  support,  as  well  as  a 
wife.  Bill  took  on  all  sorts  of  odd  jobs 
while  he  was  at  Northwestern,  directing 
church  choirs,  doing  a  twice-a-week  radio 
show  called  Songs  You  Remember  With 
Bill  Hayes,  guesting  on  other  radio  pro- 
grams, singing  at  churches  and  synagogues, 
at  weddings  and  funerals.  He  even  found 
time  to  take  a  course  in  opera. 


GIVE— 

Sirihe   back  at  CANCER 


It  was  during  his  last  semester  that  he 
got  a  chance  to  audition  for  the  Olsen  and 
Johnson  show,  "Funzapoppin."  Right  after 
he  got  his  M.A.,  he  joined  the  show  as  a 
singer-actor,  touring  this  country  and 
parts  of  Canada.  Everywhere  he  went, 
Mary  and  Carrie  went,  too.  When  the 
show  played  New  York,  they  found  a  small 
apartment  in  Greenwich  Village.  When 
the  show  went  to  Florida  for  a  few  weeks, 
they  gave  up  the  apartment.  By  this  time, 
Billy  was  six  weeks  old,  so  there  were 
two  children  to  be  looked  after  on  tour. 

In  the  fall  of  1949,  Bill's  talent  had  in- 
terested television  producer  Max  Liebman, 
and  a  more  permanent  home  for  the  chil- 
dren began  to  interest  Mary.  Bill  was 
signed  for  Your  Show  Of  Shows,  and  he 
and  Mary  found  a  house  a  little  way  out 
from  New  York,  on  Long  Island.  It 
seemed  wonderful  to  settle  down  for  a 
while.  Before  Cathy  was  born,  they  bought 
their  present  house,  leaving  it  only  when 
Bill  made  his  Hollywood  movie.  Mary 
picked  up  the  kids  and  went  with  him  but, 
after  the  picture  was  finished,  they  came 
back.  Now  that  Tommy  has  rounded  out 
the  family  to  six  persons,  they  hope  they 
can  stay  put  for  a  long  time. 

Although  the  children  swarm  all  over 
the  house,  especially  when  Bill  is  at  home, 
each  has  his  or  her  own  domain.  Each 
room  has  easily  cleaned  floors  of  linoleum 
with  big  tan  and  white  squares  and  walls 
which  are  wood-paneled  part-way  and 
painted  in  light  colors  above.  There  is  a 
huge  blackboard  in  each  room  to  be  deco- 
rated in  whatever  way  fancy  dictates,  or 
to  be  used  for  practicing  writing  or  arith- 
metic. Carrie  has  drawn  a  "Jones  Beach" 
scene  on  hers,  complete  with  ocean  waves, 
figiires  in  bathing  suits,  and  hot-dog  signs. 
This  is  the  beach  where  her  daddy  took 
the  kids  on  his  first  free  day  in  weeks,  so 
it  was  a  red-letter  occasion. 

Little  Tommy  and  Blanche,  the  house- 
keeper, have  their  own  quarters.  The 
dining  room  is  green-walled,  and  hung 
with  pictures  of  the  children  in  various 
stages  of  growth.  The  living  room  is  in 
greens  and  browns  and  tans,  furnished  in 
light-colored  modern  furniture.  The 
kitchen  is  birch-paneled,  and  it's  here 
that  Bill's  first  painting  hangs — a  colorful 
arrangement  of  ships  and  docks. 

The  head  of  a  gentle-looking  brown 
horse,  painted  by  seven-year-old  Carrie, 
hangs  in  Bill's  den,  and  it  must  be  said 
that  her  style  is  freer  than  his  and  seems 
to  mark  the  budding  artist.  Bill  is  very 
proud  of  the  painting.  All  the  children 
sing,  and  Carrie  is  learning  to  play  the 
piano.  Cathy  is  the  actress  of  the  group, 
telling  stories  with  a  great  flair. 

On  the  cocoa-brown  walls  of  Bill's  den 
are  his  framed  diplomas  from  DePauw  and 
Northwestern,  from  the  honorary  music 
society.  Pi  Kappa  Lambda — he  was  elected 
to  it  three  years  before  he  could  afford 
the  dues  necessary  for  him  to  take  up  his 
membership — and  from  the  Society  for  the 
Preservation  and  Encouragement  of  Barber 
Shop  Quartet  Singing  in  America.  His  dad, 
sales  manager  for  a  Chicago  children's 
book  publisher,  used  to  sing  with  the 
local  barber  shop  quartet  when  Bill  was 
a  little  boy,  and  he  still  remembers  how 
he  used  to  steal  out  of  bed  and  stand  on 
the  stairs  to  listen. 

In  his  den  are  shelves  of  his  favorite 
books — from  paper-covered  murder  mys- 
teries to  the  best  in  fiction  and  biography 
— and  his  record  collection,  including  both 
operatic  albums  and  recordings  of  the 
country  and  Western  tuves  and  folk  music 
that  he  loves.  His  photographs  of  memora- 
ble theatrical  appearances  hang  here,  in- 


eluding  those  from  "Me  and  Juliet."  It's 
here  that  he  keeps  his  gold  disc  for  "The 
Ballad  of  Davy  Crockett,"  presented  to  him 
by  Cadence  on  the  Milton  Berle  show, 
when  he  made  a  guest  appearance  with 
Milton  last  spring,  and  marking  sales  of 
over  a  million  at  that  time. 

Although  it  may  well  be  a  turning  point 
in  his  professional  life,  the  way  Bill  hap- 
pened to  make  that  particular  record  is  as 
casual  as  the  way  he  first  dated  Mary, 
which  was  such  a  turning  point  in  his  per- 
sonal life.  He  had  done  several  records 
for  one  company — including  a  recording 
of  "High  Noon"  and  of  "How  Do  You 
Speak  to  an  Angel?" — but  he  was  a  little 
dissatisfied.  One  day,  he  stopped  to  buy 
some  records  at  Archie  Bleyer's  record 
shop  in  Hempstead,  Long  Island,  near 
where  Bill  lives.  Archie,  of  course,  is  presi- 
dent of  Cadence  and  a  former  orchestra 
leader  for  the  Godfrey  radio  and  television 
programs,  and  he  knew  Bill's  work  well. 
He  happened  to  be  in  the  store,  and  they 
began  to  talk,  and  to  run  over  some  pos- 
sible numbers  that  Bill  could  record  for 
Cadence.  "Davy  Crockett"  was  one  of 
them — the  one  they  decided  to  do.  At  that 
point,  no  one  else  had  recorded  it,  so  Bill's 
was  the  first. 

Within  a  few  weeks  after  its  release, 
they  knew  they  had  a  hit  and,  by  late 
winter  of  this  year,  it  was  snowballing 
past  the  million  mark.  No  one  was  more 
surprised  than  Bill.  He  had  had  his  share 
of  rave  notices  on  television  and  on  the 
stage,  he  had  added  acting  and  dancing  to 
his  talents  as  a  singer  and  musician,  he 
had  worked  in  night  clubs,  had  made  fans 
all  over  the  country  among  both  children 
and  grownups.  But  all  this  was  nothing  to 
what  happened  after  "Davy  Crockett"  got 
around!  Hundreds  of  new  fan  clubs  sprang 
up,  even  in  such  far-off  places  as  Africa. 
Little  Carrie  came  home  from  school  one 
day,  announcing  that  everybody  liked  her 
because  she  was  Bill  Hayes'  daughter.  She 
had  to  be  convinced  that  she  couldn't  trade 
on  her  daddy's  name  for  long  and  had 
better  get  liked  for  herself. 

Any  schedule  the  Hayes  household  ever 
had  was  overthrown  in  a  few  weeks.  "We 
never  did  have  a  household  in  which  Dad- 
dy comes  home  regularly  at  six-thirty,  or 
anything  like  that,"  Mary  says.  "But  since 
'Davy  Crockett'  and  the  new  television 
show  of  Bill's,  we're  right  back  to  where 
we  were  when  he  was  with  Caesar  and 
Coca  and  in  'Me  and  Juliet'  on  Broadway. 
I  feed  the  children  early  most  nights  and 
wait  for  Bill.  Once  in  a  while,  he  gets  home 
early  and  the  family  has  dinner  together. 
Sometimes,  I  go  into  New  York  and  watch 
the  show  and  we  eat  afterwards,  but 
mostly  Bill  wants  to  come  home  when 
he's  through  with  his  work.  We  both  like 
movies  and  we  Uke  to  go  together,  when 
he  has  time." 

When  you  speak  to  Bill  of  time,  he 
answers:  "Time  is  the  thing  I  don't  have 
any    more!" 

It's  true  that  he  doesn't  have  much  of 
it,  but  he  still  seems  to  find  time  for  the 
things  he  really  wants  to  do.  He  foimd 
time  to  do  the  juvenile  lead  in  a  summer 
stock  performance  of  "South  Pacific,"  in 
June — with  his  dad  making  the  first  pro- 
fessional appearance  of  his  life,  in  the  role 
of  one  of  the  Navy  captains — and  it  was 
difficult  to  tell  which  one  of  the  Bills, 
father  or  son,  was  most  thrilled  by  the 
experience.  He  has  time  for  the  kids,  who 
start  shrieking  "Here's  Daddy!"  the  second 
his  car  turns  into  their  street — knowing  he 
is  never  too  tired  to  listen  to  them  talk 
or  to  play  with  them.  And  he  certainly 
has  time  for  a  happy  home  life  with  Mary 
— the  girl  he  asked  for  a  first  date  only 
because  seven  other  girls  had  already 
filled  their  schediiles  and  couldn't  say  yes! 


iFi^'^HIGH  SCHOOLniW' 


No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
ing covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly  \ 
instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  for\ 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded.} 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL    Catalog  HH-27  j 
2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chlcogo  14,  Illinois^ 


BE  YOUR  OWN 
MUSIC  TEACHER 

Send  for  Free  Book  Telling  How  Easily 
You  can  Learn  Piano,  Guitar,  Accordion, 
ANY    Instrument  This   EASY   A-B-C   Way 

NOW  IT'S  EAST  to  learn  music  at  home. 
No  tiresome  "exercises."  No  teacher, 
just  STABT  RIGHT  OUT  playing  simple 
pieces.  Thousands  now  play  who  never  thought  they 
could.  Our  pictured  lessons  make  it  easy  as  A-B-C  to 
learn  to  play  popular  music,  hymns,  classical  and  any 
other  music.  Only  a  few  cents  a  lesson.  Over  900,000 
students  I   (Our  57th  successful  year.) 

MAIL  COUPON  FOR  36-PAGE  FREE  BOOK.  Find  out 
why  our  method  can  teach  you  quickly, 
easily,    inexpensively.    No    obligation; 
jttg\  n      ""     salesman     will     call. 


\^  Mention  your  favorite  in- 
~)  struraent.    Just    mail   cou- 
pon below.  U.  S.  SCHOOL 
OF  MUSIC,  Studio  A-209. 
Port   Washington,    N.    Y. 


FREE  BOOK 


U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC 

Studio  A-209,  Port  Washington.  N.  Y. 

Please   send  me  Free  your  36-page   Illustrated   book. 
1  would  like  to  play  (Name  Instrument). 

Have  you 
Instrument Instrument  ? 


(Please  Print) 


LIVING  COLOR  ^'^%^%^sCx"s  ^° 


«n0W  \  New  Z,ivingCoiorProcess  Christmas  Cards  sell  fast 

NtW     \  from  FREE  Samples— you  keep  $1.00  cash  on  every 

.        \  '""^'  ^^°  profits  to  100%  on  biggest  selection  of 

CHRISTMAS  )  ^'^'  Novelties,  newest  SLIM  CARDS.  7  Personal  Lines. 

tflRBn       /  Children's  items. etc. NewCataloffShopping: Plan. Year- 

vARD      /  Roond  Gallery  Displav.  Barsain  Specials  boost  eaminersi 

^anealinn/  ^^  experience  needed.    Get  Assortments  on     mg^^m^m 

mWitWmi  approval.  Imprints  and  Color  Catalog  FREE.  JaJUBlHl 

"—     '  BOULEVARD  ART  PUBLISHERSffni 

23SS.  Wabash  Ave.,  Dept.  567-C,  Chicago 4,  Illinois  «■■■■■■■ 

No  other  way 

cools  tired 
burning  feet 

faster,betterthan  Ice-Mint 


When  feet  feel  like  a 
furnace,  and  it  hurts  to 
walk,  just  rub  on  cooling 
medicated  Ice-Mint 
vanishing  cream.  Discover 
how  fast  those  burning, 
fiery  aches  and  pains  can 
be  relieved.  Greaseless, 
stainless!  Contains 
amazing,  soothing  ^^.  , 


lanolin.  Also 
marvelous  for 
sunburn  and 
windburn!  Ask 
your  druggist 
for  wonderful 
Ice-Mint 
today! 


V 


l^m 
,^"'"«''° 


83 


Die  PAIN 

■„  had  ^w«  '"'*" 


pERiO 


three 


""'■        J  \  arts  ^"''= 


:S^'^--^^'"^^^^ 


jvamps 


eases 


\\ea 


(\acV\e 


nd 


erases 'to\"«^  •  ,,,.. 


VBB--— ..  All  Drugstores 

flBiffffl°S^  haveMidol 


84 


Twice  Blessed 


(Continued  from  page  38) 
"man  bites  dog"  story.  From  long  experi- 
ence on  quiz  shows  they  had  learned 
that,  while  most  winners  truly  are  happy 
with  their  prizes,  they  often  are  too  ex- 
cited or  too  shy  to  say  so.  Later,  many 
do  write  thank-you  letters,  but — since 
these  are  turned  directly  over  to  the 
sponsor — the  show  staff  rarely  sees  them. 
However,  when  someone  gets  a  wrong 
color,  or  there's  a  delay  or  a  claim  for  ad- 
ditional prizes,  the  error  must  be  checked 
— and  it's  the  gripes  they  remember.  Like 
all  other  human  beings,  quiz-show  crews 
and  quiz-show  stars  need  to  be  told,  once 
in  a  while,  that  they  are  appreciated. 
Now,  to  the  surprise  of  everyone,  the 
house-winning  contestants  had  done  so. 
They  had  said,  too,  that  this  was  "the 
most  important  thing  which  had  ever 
happened  to  them."  I  went  to  their  hotel 
to  find  out  why. 

I  heard  the  laughter  even  before  the 
door  to  their  suite  was  opened.  Entering, 
I  heard  a  man,  obviously  squirming  with 
embarrassment,  say  to  a  photographer, 
"You  know,  you  really  ought  to  get  over 
here  and  let  me  take  your  picture  in- 
stead." 

JNo  one  but  another  photographer  can 
make  quite  so  much  fuss  about  a  camera, 
and  the  two  women  who  were  "kibitzing" 
obviously  enjoyed  the  subject's  distress. 
One  of  them  confirmed  my  guess  by 
handing  over  a  card:  "C.  A.  Novotny, 
Owner,  The  Montieur  Studios,  Hotel 
Roosevelt,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa."  Mrs.  No- 
votny introduced  the  second  woman: 
"Our  neighbor,  Louise  Powell.  She  went 
to  Europe  with  us." 

A  trip  to  Europe,  a  photo  studio,  well- 
dressed  happy  people  obviously  neither 
in  trouble  nor  in  need — this  didn't  add  up 
to  the  usual  situation  in  which  a  quiz-show 
winner  states,  "This  is  the  most  important 
thing  which  ever  happened  to  me."  I  asked 
how  come. 

They  all  exchanged  looks  and  it  was 
Louise  Powell  who  answered  for  them. 
"I  guess  you  have  to  understand  that 
Glad  and  Charlie  have  always  been  the 
giving  instead  of  the  getting  kind.  To 
family,  to  town,  to  friends  .  .  ." 

The  giving,  I  learned,  had  started  in 
Charlie's  boyhood.  He  was  the  eldest  of 
eight  children.  "Dad  was  a  magician,"  he 
explained,  "billed  as  'Bohemian  Herman.' 
Mother  was  a  singer.  My  brother  Adolph 
and  I  were  in  the  act,  too,  until  I  was 
seven.  Then  we  got  stranded  in  Cedar 
Rapids  and  Mother  laid  down  the  law. 
Either  Dad  was  going  to  be  a  magician — 
alone — or  he  was  going  to  settle  down 
there  and  raise  a  family.  He  went  into 
the  barber  business." 

But  Bohemian  Herman's  heart  was  still 
in  show  business,  and  so  was  his  son's. 
When  the  father  started  one  of  the  city's 
first  motion  picture  theaters,  Charlie,  at 
the    age    of    fourteen,    ran    the    projector. 

Making  his  own  films  came  next.  He 
got  hold  of  a  beat-up  old  camera  and 
began  shooting  newsreels  for  the  local 
circuit — and  home-talent  plays  which  he 
wrote,  directed  and  filmed.  Love  and 
money  supplied  his  drive.  Love  of  pic- 
tures and  the  need  for  money  to  help 
support  the  large  family.  Even  when 
he  went  to  New  York,  his  birthplace,  to 
study  at  New  York  University,  he  worked 
as  a  doorman  to  send  money  home. 

He  quit  school  to  take  a  job  with  the 
newsreels.  "It  was  Hollywood  for  me," 
says  Charlie,  "but  not  for  long.  In  '29, 
when  the  studios  closed  down,  I  headed 
back  to  Iowa."  With  his  sister  as  his  as- 
sistant, he  started  a  portrait  studio  and 
there  met  Glad  Nowachek,  then  a  student 


at  Chicago  Art  Institute.  "I'd  been  home 
for  a  visit,"  Glad  says,  "and  passed  his 
window  on  the  way  to  the  train.  There 
I  saw  these  photos  which  were  so  beau- 
tifully lighted — and  these  paintings,  made 
from  photos,  which  were  just  awful.  I 
couldn't  stand  it.  I  had  to  ask  why  such 
a  photographer  could  put  up  such  terrible 
paintings." 

Charlie  told  her.  He  was  no  artist,  he 
stated,  and,  if  she  was,  why  didn't  she 
come  in  and  go  to  work?  Says  Glad,  "I 
took  the  job — and  I  married  the  photog- 
rapher." 

Their  early  years  together  were  rich  in 
achievement,  short  in  cash.  Charlie's  sis- 
ters and  brothers  needed  help "  getting 
started  in  business.  The  Novotnys  don't 
dwell  on  the  difficulties.  They  prefer  to 
remember  times  when  they  helped  shape 
some  young  Novotny's  life.  "I  had  twin 
brothers,  El  and  Ed,"  says  Charlie.  "I 
agreed  to  take  El  into  the  studio,  but  it 
turned  out  that  Ed  was  as  crazy  about 
photography  as  I  am.  So  Ed  put  one 
over  on  his  twin.  He  got  up  at  five  o'clock 
that  morning.  I  couldn't  tell  them  apart. 
When  El  got  to  the  studio,  there  was  Ed, 
already  at  work.  I  had  to  find  a  place 
for  both  of  them." 

Louise  Powell  cut  in.  "Charlie  and  Glad 
didn't  stop  with  just  the  sisters  and  broth- 
ers. They  began  looking  after  the  second 
generation,  too.    And  the  neighbors'  kids." 

It  was  two  of  those  neighbors'  kids,  Don 
and  Mary  Ellen  Johnson,  who  took  over 
the  studio  when  the  Novotnys  retired. 
"When  they  were  youngsters,"  Glad  ex- 
plains, "they  were  always  rurming  in  to 
see  us,  and  they  both  turned  out  to  be 
'naturals'  with  a  camera.  When  they  got 
married,  Charlie  helped  them  find  a  studio 
in  a  near-by  small  town,  then,  when  they 
had  gained  experience,  brought  them  back 
to  Cedar  Rapids  so  we  could  retire." 

"When  you  really  retire,"  Louise  Powell 
said,  "that  will  be  the  day.  You  can 
keep  busier  doing  things  for  the  town 
than  most  people  can  working." 

The  score  on  doing  things  for  the  town, 
I  discovered,  indicated  that  the  Novotnys 
are  the  kind  of  people  who  help  keep  things 
running.  Charlie  has  been  president  of 
the  Executives  Club  and  belongs  to  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  Kiwanis,  and  a 
number  of  Masonic  organizations.  Glad 
does  her  civic  work  through  the  Women's 
Club,  the  Eastern  Star,  the  Red  Cross.  Her 
talent  for  art  has  been  particularly  help- 
ful in  the  Red  Cross,  for  she  has  taught 
occupational  therapy  as  a  volunteer  in  a 
near-by  mental  hospital. 

In  addition  to  his  serious  work  with 
organizations,  Charlie  also  sees  that  his 
friends  have  fun.  "I  guess  I'll  always  do 
a  little  magic,"  he  says.  To  keep  magic 
from  becoming  a  full-time  job,  he  has 
worked  out  a  rule:  "If  someone  just  wants 
to  throw  a  shindig,  I  charge  them.  If  it's 
for  kids  or  a  benefit,  I  work  for  free." 

Their  dream,  through  all  their  busy  days, 
had  been  to  take  a  trip  to  Europe.  They 
scheduled  it  for  April,  but  retired  Jan- 
uary 1. 

"And  then,"  says  Glad,  "we  sat  down  at 
home  and  went  right  back  to  the  same 
old  tasks.  But  that's  how  we  discovered 
Feather  Your  Nest." 

Glad's  mother  was  responsible  for  that. 
Dropping  in,  one  blustery  morning,  she 
found  Glad  painting  and  Charlie  retouch- 
ing a  negative.  Tartly  she  suggested  that, 
if  they  both  were  going  to  work  as  hard 
as  ever,  they  might  at  least  turn  on  tele- 
vision— and  she  switched  on  her  favorite 
program. 

"It  didn't  take  us  long  to  become  fans," 
says  Charlie.  "We  noticed  the  way  Bud 
Collyer  could  always  get  people  to  relax 


and  Janis  Carter  could  get  them  to  talk 
easily.  Well,  we've  tried  enough  of  that 
ourselves  to  appreciate  their  talent.  We 
decided  to  try  to  get  tickets  for  the  show^ 
when  we  took  our  trip." 

Louise  Powell  took  time  off,  from  her 
job  as  office  manager  of  her  father's  con- 
tracting company,  to  go  with  them.  "We 
were  all  as  excited  as  kids,"  she  says. 

Says  Charlie,  "I  was  worst.  I  went  to 
the  NBC  ticket  office  and  asked  for  tickets 
to  Tonight.  They  were  out,  and  suggested 
Feather  Your  Nest.  I  sort  of  glared  at  them 
and  said,  'That's  what  I  asked  for  in  the 
first  place.' " 

They  all  felt  that  his  fluff  had  been  a 
good  omen,  when — at  five  o'clock  of  the 
day  on  which  they  had  seen  the  show  and 
filled  out  cards — Louise  Hammett,  the  as- 
sociate producer,  phoned  their  hotel  to 
ask  them  to  be  on  the  show  the  next  day. 

On  the  show,  Bud  Collyer's  questions 
were  just  right.  "How  many  baby  pic- 
tvtres  do  you  think  you  have  taken?" 

Charlie  thought  a  minute,  "About  a 
hundred  thousand." 

"Why  did  you  retire?" 

"Weil,"  said  Charlie,  "when  the  first 
babies  started  bringing  their  babies  in,  I 
thought  it  was  time  to  let  someone  else 
do  the  job." 

Glad  fared  less  well  with  the  quiz. 
"CharUe  has  always  called  me  his  'arm- 
chair Ph.D.,'  but  my  head  was  in  a  whirl. 
I  missed  almost  everything." 

But,  when  time  came  to  draw  for  the 
house — the  Harnischfeger  Corporation's 
P  &  H  "Lakeside"  model  home — their 
luck  changed.  As  Charlie  held  up  his 
number.  Bud  shouted,   "Hey,  that's  low!" 

"That's  when  Charlie  started  looking 
like  a  small  boy  who  had  been  given  a 
big  league  catcher's  mitt,"  says  Glad. 

Ihe  contest  still  had  several  days  to 
run,  and  the  Novotnys  had  already  sailed 
on  the  Queen  Mary  when  it  ended.  But 
Louise  Hammett  had  arranged  to  radio 
them  if  they  won. 

Glad  watched  Charlie's  excitement 
mount.  She  says,  "He  didn't  say  anything, 
but  I  could  sense  that,  for  some  reason 
of  his  own,  this  was  important  to  him. 
It  couldn't  be  the  house  itself.  We  have 
a  house.  An  available  house  could  be 
pretty  important  either  to  Don  and  Ellen 
or  to  Charlie's  nieces  and  nephews,  but 
those  kids  are  now  able  to  work  things 
out  for  themselves.  As  the  days  went  by, 
I  began  to  understand  that,  for  some 
reason  he  wasn't  yet  ready  to  speak 
about,  this  was  very  important  to  Charlie 
himself." 

She  fo\ind  out  on  the  day  they  saw  a 
steward  approach  with  a  radiogram.  Glad 
says,  "I  thought  my  heart  would  stop  and, 
for  a  minute,  I  thought  Charlie's  had.  He 
opened  it  sind  turned  pale.  Then  he  said 
— oh,  so  quietly — 'Glad,  do  you  know  this 
is  the  first  time  anyone  ever  gave  me 
anything?'  " 

But  givers  remain  givers.  Charlie  and 
Glad  Novotny  had  been  too  long  in  the 
habit  of  giving  not  to  come  back  from 
Europe  with  the  little  tham^k-you  gifts  for 
Bud  Colly er,  Janis  Carter  and  the  mem- 
bers of  the  show's  staff  they  had  met. 

And  that's  how  they  nearly  "broke  up" 
the  stars  and  staff  of  Feather  Your  Nest. 
For  when — on  the  day  they  came  in  to  ac- 
cept their  big  prize — they  handed  Bud  his 
little  gift,  he  choked  and  went  red-faced. 
And  Bud  said,  just  as  Charlie  had  on 
shipboard:  "This  is  the  first  time  anyone 
ever  gave  me  anything." 

So  the  Novotnys  weren't  the  only  ones 
who  were  surprised.  They  and  Bud — and 
all  the  generous  people  associated  with 
Feather  Your  Nest — had  proved,  once 
again,  that  gifts  from  the  heart  always 
bless  both  the  giver  and  the  receiver. 


COLORINSE 


Thrill  to  an  exciting  new  "YOU"  as 
Nestle  COLORINSE  glamorizes 
^j  your  hair  with  glorious  color- 

beauty.  COLORINSE  sparkles  your 
natural    hair  shade  with   gleaming   color- 
highlights  .  .  .  silken    lustre  .  .  .  alluring   softness. 
It's  wonderfully  easy-to-use  .  .  .  rinses  in— shampoos  out! 
12  marvelous  shades.  25<  and  50<!  sizes. 


Color-Magic  for  your  Hair! 


Nestle  COLORTINT  gives  your  hair  richer, 
deeper  color-glamour!    It  intensifies  your 
own  hair  color  or  adds  the  wonderful  NEW  color 
you've  always  dreamed  of!  More  than  a  rinse  but 
not  a  permanent  dye— lanolin-rich       — - 
COLORTINT  also  hides  gray  hairs 
and  blends-in  bleached,  streaked      ^ 
or  dyed  hair.  10  enchanting  / 

shades.  29?:  and  SOif  sizes.  m 


COLORTI 


THIS  AD   IS 
WORTH  MONEY! 

Let  us  show  you  how  to  make  big  money  in 
your  spare  time  by  helping  us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions.  Write  today  for  FREE 
money-making   information: 

MACFADDEN    PUBLICATIONS 
205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


Thousands 


Women  .  •  • 


Thousands  find  relief  and 
comfort  with  MOTHER'S 
FRIEND  .  .  .  The  famous, 
mild,  skin  lubricant  that 
soothes  tight,  dry  skin  and 
eases  numbing,  tingling 
muscles  in  back  and  legs. 
Enjoy  this  refreshing  skin 
conditioner.  /^^^I\ 

$1*25  at  all  (pARENTsy 
Drug  Stores 


FREE  !  TIPS  TO  EXPECTANT  MOTHERS 
Valuable  Booklet  with  Every  Bottle  of 

Mother's  Friend 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 


Size  B  X  lO  Inches 

on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bust 
form,  groups.  landEcapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  Kroap  picture.  Orifrinal  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 


SendNoMoney  Stor^po 


Just  mail  photo,  neirative  or  snap- 
6hot  (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargrement. 
guaranteed  fadeless,  on  beautiful  double-weisht 
portrait  quality  paper.  Paj'  postman  67c  pi 


67' 


169C1 


s  pay  post- 


»y  L 

th  order  and  v 

this  amazing  i 

Professional  Art  Studios.  544  S.  Main.  Dept  35-L,  Princeton,  Illinois 

Callouses,  Tenderness,  Pain, 
Burning  at  Ball  of  Foot? 


Ball-o-foot 

Cushion 


lOOPS  OVER  TOE 

QUICK  RELIEF    . 
BEYOND  BELIEF! 

Mode  of  soft  UTEX 
FOAM  and  NYLON    ( 

You  Actually  WALK 
ON  CUSHIONS! 


It's  entirely  NEW!  Never  before  anything  like  it 
for  relieving  painful  callouses,  tenderness,  burning 
at  ball  of  foot!  The  cushion — not  you — absorbs 
shock  of  each  step.  Dr.  SchoU's  BALL-O-FOOT 
Cushion  loops  over  toe.  No  adhesive.  Flesh  color. 
Washable.  Worn  invisibly.  $1.00  pair  at  Drug,  Shoe, 
Dept.,  5-10^  Stores  and  Dr.  SchoU's  Foot  Comfort* 
Shops.  If  not  obtainable  locally,  order  direct,  enclos- 
ing $1 .00  and  state  if  for  woman  orraan. 
DR.  SCHOLL'S,  INC.,  Dept.  57B,  Chicago  10,  III. 


85 


A  Mighty  Man  Is  He 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as- 
sortment of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety  of 
luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons,  cot- 
tons, gabardines,  woolens,  silks, 
etc.  Expensive  dresses — original 
value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cards!  5  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON! 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.  824  | 

lOne  of  the  oldeil  and  lorgesl  mail  order  houses  of  its  kind) 


86 


103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y 

Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below 
with  Free  Button  Cards.  Enclosed  find  $1  de- 
posit, balance  C.O.D.  plus  postage.  Money  re- 
turned if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and 
foreign  orders  accepted. 
Circle  Size: 

Girl's  Sizes  7,  8,  10.  12,  14  are  5  for  $2,75 
Junior  Miss  Sizes  9,  11.  13,  15  are  5  for  $3.75  , 

'Sizes  12.  14,  16.  18.20.38,40.42,44,5  for  $3.75  I 
I  Sizes  MVj,  16!/j.l8;/2.20'/4.22Vi.24'4.5for$3.75l 
I  Extra  Large  Sizes  46.  48.  50.  52  are  5  for  $4.75  j 
I  n  Check  here  to  save  C.O.D.  fee.  Send  full  | 
I  amount  with  2  5(*  postage.  ■ 

I 


,  n  Please    send  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY 


I     Name t 

I     Addresi I 

I     City Zone  State ! 


(Continued  from  page  37) 
might  be  pardoned  for  assuming  that  Fess 
Parker  is  a  man  of  temperate  emotions, 
cool-headed  and  slow  to  anger.  So  watch 
it,  stranger.  His  calm  can  be  that  of  a 
mountain  lion  choosing  the  best  time  to 
spring,  and  his  lack  of  haste  can  be  that 
of  a  long  fuse  burning  its  way  to  a  ton  of 
dynamite. 

Two  things  rouse  his  fury:  Stupid  in- 
efficiency and  bad  manners.  The  slipshod 
job,  sluffed  off  out  of  incompetence,  lazi- 
ness or  malice,  and  the  use  of  "smile  when 
you  say  that"  phrases  without  a  smile, 
have  inspired  drastic  Parker  action. 
Friends  say  that  his  anger  over  certain 
types  of  Hollywood  waste  have  threatened 
to  handicap  his  career.  Fess  himself  ad- 
mits that  one  instance  of  "blowing  his 
top"  almost  cost  him  his  life. 

The  incident  took  place  shortly  after 
Fess  had  returned  from  his  wartime  job 
of  riding  a  mine  sweeper  in  Philippine 
waters.  Fess  had  enrolled  at  Hardin-Sim- 
mons,  in  Abilene,  and  was  all  set  to  exert 
himself  on  the  football  field  for  four  happy 
years.  One  afternoon,  he  was  driving 
around  with  a  girl  friend  when  a  car 
smacked  the  rear  bumper  of  Fess'  auto- 
mobile. He  had  been  moving  at  conserva- 
tive speed,  so  he  stepped  on  the  gas.  The 
driver  of  the  car  in  the  rear  also  accel- 
erated and  struck  Fess'  car  a  second  time, 
and  again  a  third  time.  He  then  passed 
Fess  on  the  right,  shouting  obscenities  at 
Fess  and  his  girl. 

Fess  became  210  pounds  of  molten 
lava.  When  the  other  driver  pulled  into 
a  private  driveway,  Fess  parked  at  the 
curbing,  vaulted  out  of  his  car  and  strode 
down  the  driveway  with  fists  at  the  ready. 

As  Fess  svmng,  the  man  slipped  a  knife 
into  the  left  side  of  Fess'  neck.  Fess 
dodged,  deflecting  the  blade — ^which  struck 
his  jawbone  and  broke.  Except  for  this 
evasive  action,  the  knife  would  have  sev- 
ered Fess'  carotid  artery  and  he  would 
have  bled  to  death  in  a  matter  of  min- 
utes— a  fact  of  which  the  knife-wielder  was 
well  aware.    He  was  a  butcher  by  trade. 

Fess,  bleeding  profusely,  managed  to  re- 
turn to  his  car  but  realized,  as  he  tried 
to  climb  behind  the  steering  wheel,  that 
he  dared  not  trust  himself  to  drive  to  the 
hospital.  He  faced  the  fact  that,  for  the 
first  time  in  his  life,  he  was  likely  to  faint. 

The  girl,  who  did  not  know  how  to  drive, 
was  helpless. 

Fess  strode  back  up  the  driveway  and 
told  his  near-murderer,  "You've  got  to 
drive  me  to  the  hospital." 

"You're  crazy,"  growled  the  man. 

"You've  got  to,"  said  Fess,  getting  into 
his  adversary's  car. 

The  man,  mesmerized  by  Fess'  courage, 
obeyed.  He  drove  at  twenty  miles  an  hour 
and  he  took  several  strange  byways,  oc- 
casionally casting  an  incredulous  glance  at 
his  still-living  passenger.  Apparently  lack- 
ing the  ultimate  savagery  to  do  anything 
else,  he  delivered  Fess — at  last — to  the 
hospital.  A  few  moments  more  would 
have  been  too  late. 

For  a  final  note  of  irony:  Fess'  case 
against  the  man  was  dismissed  because  the 
"fight"  had  taken  place  on  the  defendant's 
property,  a  technicality  which  interpreted 
Fess  as  a  trespasser,  therefore  the  guilty 
party. 

Furthermore,  the  man  testified  in  court 
that  Fess  had  knocked  him  down  three 
times.  Perhaps  this  testimony  infuriated 
Fess  more  than  all  his  previous  sufferings. 
"If  I  hit  that  guy  three  times,  he  wouldn't 
have  had  strength  enough  to  have  opened 
a  springblade  knife — to  say  nothing  about 
cutting  me,"  he  observed  flatly. 


Because  of  the  loss  of  his  court  case, 
Fess  decided  to  study  law,  in  order  to 
move  into  the  state  legislature,  eventually, 
and  straighten  out  certain  inequitable 
statutes.  He  entered  the  University  of 
Texas  and  began  to  pound  out  briefs. 
Halfway  through  his  pre-law  course,  Fess 
was  spotted  by  the  drama  coach,  who 
needed  a  tall  man  to  tower  over  a  Shakes- 
pearean cast  of  characters.  An  obliging  cus- 
tomer— when  not  antagonized — ^Fess  agreed 
to  go  along  with  a  Pyramus-and-Thisbe 
bit.  Through  this  and  subsequent  dramatic 
activities,  he  met  Adolphe  Menjou.  "If  you 
ever  come  to  Hollywood,  look  me  up," 
suggested  Beau  Brummel  Menjou,  who 
is  a  good  judge,  not  only  of  clothes,  but 
of  the  men  who  wear  them.  "I  think  you 
might  have  a  chance  for  a  picture  career. 
In  any  case,  I  could  put  you  in  touch  with 
some  actors'  agents." 

Mr.  Menjou  kept  his  word  when  Fess, 
after  graduation,  appeared  in  Shangrila-in- 
the-Smog  looking  for  a  job.  According  to 
Fess:  "At  Mr.  Menjou's  suggestion  I  made 
the  usual  rounds  of  agents'  offices.  Those 
boys  surveyed  me  with  unlimited  calm. 
They  got  excited  about  only  one  thing — 
my  accent.  I  had  too  much." 

While  waiting  for  his  accent  to  subside, 
Fess  enrolled  at  U.S.C.  in  theater  arts 
classes,  and  soon  found  himself  a  member 
of  the  national  company  of  "Mister  Rob- 
erts." That  did  it.  When  he  returned  to 
town  after  a  ten-week  tour,  he  had  only 
to  mention  "Roberts"  and  casting  office 
doors  opened  on  oiled  hinges. 

Parts  in  seven  pictures  brought  him  a 
part  in  "Them,"  which  in  turn  brought 
him  his  contract  with  Walt  Disney.  "Them" 
were  giant  ants — if  you  can  follow  the 
grammar.  It  was  a  low-budget  film,  but  it 
made  a  mint  because  of  its  special  effects — 
one  of  which  was  a  screen-filling  figure 
of  a  man  named  Parker. 

He  was,  Walt  Disney  and  studio  offi- 
cials agreed,  upon  seeing  "Them,"  Davy 
Crockett  to  a  whisker.  Davy  Crockett,  for 
whom  they  had  been  scanning  the  frontiers 
of  the  Sunset  Strip  nighteries  for  many  a 
month — with  nary  a  cloud  of  dust  appear- 
ing on  the  horizon. 

No  sooner  had  the  perfect  Davy  Crockett 
been  located,  and  exploited  in  three  TV 
films  and  one  feature-length  attraction, 
than  a  fresh  problem  presented  itself.  Ac- 
cording to  "history,"  there  are  at  least 
three  versions  of  the  fate  of  the  valorous 
Davy.  One  story  holds  that  he  died  with 
the  rest  of  the  defenders  of  The  Alamo. 
A  second  legend  says  that  he  and  three  or 
four  other  men  were  taken  captive  by 
General  Santa  Anna,  subjected  to  torture, 
brought  before  a  military  court  (although 
they  were,  technically,  prisoners  of  war) , 
found  guilty  of  treason  and  executed.  The 
third  version  insists  that  Crockett  and  a 
few  men  were  returned  to  Mexico  and 
there  starved  and  beaten  to  death. 

Television  audiences  refused  to  counten- 
ance any  version  that  would  take  Davy 
Crockett  away  from  their  screens  perma- 
nently. They  began  to  deluge  the  Disney 
organization  with  protests  against  Crock- 
ett's death  or  undue  injury. 

Have  a  hunk  of  good  news,  then.  A  new 
series,  called  "The  Legends  of  Davy  Crock- 
ett,", will  tell  of  his  fictional  adventures 
before  the  1836  siege  of  The  Alamo — which 
occurred  when  Davy  was  fifty. 

Davy  Crockett's  future  is  assured.  Mean- 
while, Fess  Parker  hopes  to  portray  other 
mighty  men  of  America.  Much  as  he  ad- 
mires Crockett,  Fess  has  not  forgotten  that 
he  himself  is  an  actor  ("of  the  aw-shucks 
school,"  he  says),  and  he  wants  to  exper- 
ience as  much  diversity  as  is  possible. 

This  can  also  be  stated  in  pure  Texan: 


"Don't  fence  me  in."  Freedom  and  scope 
are  as  important  to  Fess  as  air.  When  he 
has  a  holiday,  his  idea  of  a  great  way  to 
spend  it  is  hiking  through  the  Hollywood 
lulls.  Congested  as  Los  Angeles  and  its 
environs  are,  there  are  still  thousands  of 
acres  of  semi-wUd  territory   in  the   area. 

One  of  the  greatest  of  Hollywood  addi- 
tions to  Fess'  life  is  the  man  who  co- 
starred  with  him  in  "Davy  Crockett,  King 
of  the  Wild  Frontier" — Buddy  Ebsen. 
Buddy,  six  feet  three  inches  tall,  is  known 
to  his  six-foot,  five-inch  friend  as  "Shorty." 
To  even  things  up,  Buddy  tells  mutual 
friends  that  the  laconic,  deUberate  Parker 
film  style  proves  that  Fess  is  "the  most 
vital  actor  around." 

Another  gag  is  based  upon  the  fact  that 
Fess  is  an  unpretentious  man  who  spends 
his  money  sensibly,  lives  well  withhi  his 
means,  and  doesn't  care  who  knows  it. 
When  asked  how  soon  he  could  leave  for 
the  "King  of  the  Wild  Frontier"  location 
in  Tennessee's  Great  Smoky  Motmtains, 
he  repUed,  "In  about  ten  minutes."  He 
meant  it,  too.  Had  it  all  figured  out.  He 
would  pack  his  clothes,  his  books,  and  his 
recordings  in  a  carton,  store  the  carton 
in  his  car — and  store  the  car.  "I  figured 
I  could  always  find  a  furnished  room 
when  I  came  back  to  town,"  he  opined. 

This  economy  inspired  Ebsen  to  say  that 
— "in  order  to  satisfy  his  wUd  impulses" — 
Fess  was  going  to  buy  a  red  sports  car, 
probably  a  Mercedes-Benz. 

iVlr.  Ebsen  was  left  without  a  joke  when 
Fess  recently  bought  bachelor  diggings  di- 
rectly across  the  street  from  the  Ebsen 
home  in  Beverly  Hills'  beautiful  Benedict 
Canyon.  Fess  calls  the  architecture  "rustic 
modem,"  glories  in  the  radiant  heat  in- 
stalled in  the  floors  because  California 
seems  chilly  to  a  Texan.  The  house  does 
not  mean  Aat  Fess  is  about  to  get  mar- 
ried. It  does  mean  that  he  grew  weary  of 
ducking  under  the  doorways  of  furnished 
rooms  and  trying  to  fit  into  apartment- 
hotel  beds. 

It  also  means  that  Fess  will  be  close 
enough  to  Buddy  for  the  two  of  them  to 
congregate  regularly  to  rehearse  their 
dance  routines.  Both  maintain  that  they 
are  verging  upon  the  sensational — Buddy 
has  years  of  Broadway  lights  to  his  credit 
— and  that  Fess'  version  of  an  "off  to  Buf- 
falo" is  terrific. 

When  they  were  in  the  Great  Smokies 
they  visited  the  Cherokee  Amphitheater, 
where  an  outdoor  pageant  dramatizing  the 
tragedy  of  the  Cherokee  nation  is  given 
for  three  months  each  summer.  This  out- 
door bowl  seats  about  ten  thousand  people, 
and  the  distance  from  outer  rim  to  the 
stage  is  about  two  hundred  yards. 

Fess  and  Buddy,  clad  in  their  fringed 
frontier  clothes,  moccasins  and  coonskin 
caps,  stood  at  the  top  of  the  amphitheater 
and  awarded  a  moment  of  awe  to  the 
empty  edifice.  Abruptly,  Fess  left  his  com- 
panion and  loped  to  the  distant  stage, 
where  he  went  into  an  off-to-BufEalo  while 
demanding  in  a  tone  that  cleaved  the  qiiiet 
air,  "How's  this?" 

"Whimsical  cuss,  aren't  you?"  howled 
Buddy. 

That's  exactly  what  Fess  is.  A  whimsi- 
cal, tall,  good-looking,  talented  gentle- 
man, who  is  good  company,  has  a  charm- 
ing sense  of  humor  and  a  bvurning  ambi- 
tion to  succeed. 

Something  should  be  done  about  those 
eyes  of  Fess  Parker's.  They  are  sea-green 
and  fringed  by  thick  black  lashes,  and 
tiieir  glance  is  as  eloquent  as  a  kiss.  The 
Disney  people  had  better  start  giving  him 
love  scenes  to  do,  or  that  avalanche  of 
angry  letters  is  going  to  descend  again. 

Originally,  all  the  viewers  wanted  for 
Davy  Crockett  was  life.  Now — just  you 
wait  and  see — they're  going  to  want  love. 


DON'T   PAY   MORE 

for  these   high -quality  features! 


"CRADLE-CUP". . .Divided  Strap-Action 
relieves  shoulder  strain . . .  supports  and 
"cradles"  gently   but  firmly!   Alluring 
single-needle  circle  stitching... 
elastic  midriff  gore . . .  new 
cushioned  non-roll  band! 


No.  4135,  White  Broadcloth 
No.  5135,  White  Acetate  Satin 
A  Cup  32-36;  B  32-40;  C  34-42 


$100 


1 


BRAS  AND  GIRDLES  FOR  FiGURE-WfSE  WOMEN.! 

At  your  nearest  Variety  Store— the  smart  woman's  shopping  center! 


Wf^/'^:?  325  PICTURES 


II  With  your  order  of  TV  and  Movie 
Stars.  One  beautiful  Scene  from  a 
latest  production  FREE.  It's  NEW 
and.  has  never  been  offered  before! 

12/or  15i'2Sfor2Si'Mfor50i 

LUCKY     STARS      D«pt.  T-3 

I  G.  P.  O.  Bex  738,  NEW  YORK  1,  N.Y, 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


^^m  .  I  ■  Why  continue  to  sufler  without  attempt- 

^V    /  H  tag  to  do  somethtag?  Write  today  lor  New 

^H    /  ■  Booklet — "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 

^B  Jl  H  HOME   trSE."   It   tells  about  Varicose 

^V  M  ^1  Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 

^^k^^^H  used  whiU  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 

^BhHB  success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 

LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., 
Dept.  J-47,    Milwaukee   12,  Wisconsinl 


FR££f 


Without  spending  a  penny 

you  can  get  such  famous 

'merchandise  as  Mirro  Aluminum, 

Bates  Bed  Spreads,  Detecto 

Scales,  Hoover  Cleaners,  Chatham 

Blankets,  Waltham  Watches  and 

hundreds  of  other  things  you've 

always  Mfanted. 

Become  an  American  Homes  Club 

Secretary  . . .  it's  easy  . . .  it's  fun 

. , .  there's  nothing  for  you  to  buy 

. . .  nothing  for  you  to  sell. 

Write  for  big  color  catalog 


AMERICAN  HOMES  CLUB  PLAN,  DEPT.  9C,  BANGOR,  ME. 
Please  send  FREE  COLOR  CATALOG  at  no  obligation. 

Name 

Street*  No 

City 


.State. 


Add  COLOR  To  Your  TV! 

New  Multichrome  television  screen  filter  adds 
color  to  any  set.  Attach  in  seconds.  Instantly, 
vivid  color  takes  the  place  of  drab  black  and 
white.  Glare  and  eyestrain  are  eliminated. 
Guaranteed.  Only  $2.98.  Send  now.  Specify 
screen  size. 

HOLMES  COMPANY 

Box  581  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


SHORTHANDjN 


Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols;  no  machines. 
Uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn,  write,  tran- 
scribe  Lowest  cost.  300,000  taught  by 
mail.  Typing  available,  32nd  Year.  Write 
for  FREE  booklet  to: 


Amazing  Hew,  Exclusive 

PARCHMEHT 
CHRISTMAS  CARDS 


254 


CASH  FOR  YOU! 

You've  never  seen  cards  so  lovely ! 
New  Parchment  Cards  personalized 
with  Name-In-Red,  sell  fast  at  25 
for  $1.  Just  show  our  exclusive  Sam- 
ple Book  to  friends;  take  big  orders! 
$65  IS  YOURS  for  selling  65  boxes 
of  luxurious  "Southern  Hospitality" 
Greetings.  Also  Southern  Beauty  and  other 
Assortments,  Gifts,  many  more.   All  orders 
shipped  in24  hours.  Profits  to  100%, plus  bonus. 
Get  FREE  Sample  Book,  Assortments  on  ap- 
proval. Slipperettes  FREE  if  you  act  fast. 
MAIL  COUPON  NOW! 

rSOuTliFRN  GREEtTnGS,  Dept.  C-31 
I    478  N.  Hollywood,  IMemphls  12,  Tenn. 


City  &  State 


87 


Unexpected  Romance 


Corns 


Sore  Toes, 
Tender 
Spots 


Pain  Stops  "'^       i       I  ^  i 

FASTI  , 

No  waiting!  Super-  *       '- 

So/i  Dr.  SchoU's  Zino-pads  stop  pain  at  its 
source  ever  so  fast  .  .  .  remove  corns  one  of 
the  fastest  ways  known  to  medical  science  . . . 
stop  corns  before  they  can  develop  .  . .  ease 
new  or  tight  shoes  .  .  .  pre- 
vent sore  toes,  blisters.  No 
other  method  does  all  this! 
For  FREE  sample,  write  Dr. 
SchoU's,  Inc.,  Chicago  10,  111. 


(Continued  from  page  51) 
which  she  and  Eric  have  created  for  their 
home  on  New  York's  East  Fifty-first  Street, 
and  counting  the  days  until  their  first 
wedding  anniversary,  she  could  find  the 
reasons  for  that  surprise  and  smile  about 
them  .  .  .  but,  at  the  actual  time,  Pat 
admits,  she  was  startled.  She  says,  "I  was 
more  mixed  up  than  any  heroine  I  have 
ever  portrayed  in  a  daytime  drama.  It 
was  a  time  when  everything  seemed  to 
be  going  wrong." 

For  her,  the  new  year  of  1954  might 
well  have  been  toasted  in  vinegar  rather 
than  champagne.  She  counts  up  the  small 
personal  catastrophes:  "Besides  my  radio 
programs,  I  had  a  part  I  liked  in  the  stage 
production  of  'Charley's  Aunt' — ^but,  early 
in  January,  business  fell  off  and  our  clos- 
ing notices  went  up.  Then,  to  make  mat- 
ters worse,  I  had  a  tooth  start  to  abscess. 
I  played  my  closing  night  in  self-conscious 
misery  with  a  swollen  jaw." 

JLlespite  her  dentist's  efforts  to  check  the 
infection,  the  jaw  reached  football  pro- 
portions within  two  days.  Pat  huddled  in 
her  midtown  apartment  nuzzling  an  ice 
bag,  eating  aspirin  and  feeling  as  gloomy 
as  the  gray  clouds  in  the  winter  sky. 

"That  would  be  the  time  an  ambitious 
press  agent  chose  to  call  me,"  she  remem- 
bers. "He  was  only  looking  for  another 
client,  but  his  way  of  selling  his  services 
was  to  rave  about  how  'glamorous'  I  was. 
If  only  I  would  sign  up  with  him,  he 
would — in  his  words — make  me  'the  sexi- 
est dame  on  Broadway.'  I  muttered  some- 
thing about  being  the  'ladylike  type'  and 
hung  up.  I  went  to  the  mirror,  took  one 
look  at  my  lopsided  face  and  buried  it  in 
the  ice  bag.  Right  then,  I  didn't  like  men." 

There  was  an  additional  reason  for  her 
state  of  mind,  she  tells  you  candidly.  "I 
was  in  a  period  where  it  seemed  every 
man  I  met  was  exactly  wrong  for  me  and 
I  for  him.  More  experienced  actresses 
tell  me  it  always  happens,  but  I  found  it 
shocking.  The  best  way  I  can  describe  it 
is  to  say  that  there  seems  to  be  a  kind  of 
man  who  is  attracted  by  the  glitter  of  show 
business  but  is  also  jealous  of  it.  If  a  girl 
haiJpens  to  be  a  little  more  successful  in 
her  field  than  he  is  in  his,  he  then  sets 
out  to  whittle  her  down  to  his  own  size. 
He  undermines  her  self-confidence  and 
belittles  every  achievement.  He  takes  the 
joy  out  of  everything.  It's  destructive  and 
terrifying." 

Miserable  as  she  was  that  day,  and  tak- 
ing the  blackest  possible  view  of  every- 
thing, she  had  moped  in  pain-racked  lone- 
liness. "I  tried  to  think  of  just  one  single 
eligible  nice  guy — someone  who  would  be 
comforting  when  I  was  sick,  someone  who 
would  be  happy  when  I  was  better,  some- 
one who  could  stand  on  his  own  two  feet, 
do  his  own  job  well,  and  expect  me  to  do 
the  same." 

Again,  the  telephone  brought  an  inter- 
ruption. A  friend  of  her  mother's  was 
calling  to  ask  Pat  to  meet  a  young  man. 
He  was  a  most  impressive  person,  the 
woman  stated,  a  very  talented  industrial 
designer.  He  was  also  a  member  of  an 
old  and  distinguished  Spanish-Italian 
family.  "And,  besides,  he  has  a  wonderful 
idea  for  a  television  show.  I  told  him  you 
would  be  just  perfect  for  it." 

Pat,  at  the  moment,  could  not  have  cared 
less.  "I  love  and  respect  the  Countess 
DeSales,"  she  says.  "She  and  my  mother 
worked  together  for  the  British  Informa- 
tion Service  during  the  war,  and  she  now 
is  secretary  to  Franklin  Roosevelt,  Jr. 
But,  feeling  as  low  as  I  did  then,  my  im- 
mediate reaction  was:  'What  does  Lillian 
know  about  a  television  show?'  " 


Even  simple  courtesy  took  effort,  but 
Pat  agreed  to  meet  him.  "He  must  have 
thought  I  had  the  nastiest  temper  in  tele- 
vision," she  recalls.  "When  he  phoned,  the 
first  thing  he  did  was  to  invite  me  to 
dinner.  I  decided  he  merely  wanted  a 
date.  I  cut  him  off  fast  and  said,  if  this 
was  business,  he  could  bring  an  outline  of 
the  show  to  my  apartment.  I  would  not 
discuss  it  over  the  dinner  table." 

Self-conscious  about  her  puffy  face,  she 
had  been  definitely  icy  when  he  arrived, 
but  the  ever-ringing  telephone  turned  the 
interview  into  a  comedy  of  frustration. 
"First,  it  was  my  agent,  asking  when  I 
would  be  healthy  enough  for  new  audi- 
tions. Eric  flipped  the  pages  of  his  script 
and  started  over.  Next,  a  director  called. 
Eric  started  again.  Then  my  agent  called 
back  and,  by  that  time,  Eric  had  another 
appointment.  All  we  could  do  was  laugh 
and  agree  on  another  meeting." 

Pat's  troublesome  tooth  had  subsided 
when  the  appointed  day  arrived,  but  she 
was  still  suffering  that  drawn-through-a- 
knothole  feeling  which  follows  an  in- 
fection. Meeting  him  at  the  door,  she 
announced  she  didn't  want  to  talk.  She 
was  tired.  Immediately  considerate,  he 
had  apologized:  "If  that's  the  case,  I'll 
leave  right  away." 

Pat  recalls  with  amusement,  "I  remem- 
ber I  didn't  want  him  to  go.  Just  as  ab- 
ruptly, I  said,  'I'm  not  that  tired,'  and 
invited  him  in." 

At  their  next  meeting,  Eric  had  bad 
news.  His  client  had  merged  with  an- 
other firm,  and  the  proposed  program  was 
indefinitely  postponed.  A  bit  hesitantly,  he 
invited  her  to  go  to  the  theater  with  him 
the  following  evening.    Pat  accepted. 

It  was  after  the  theater  that  they  went 
to  the  Oak  Room.  Says  Pat,  "We  stayed 
and  stayed.  I  forgot  I  needed  my  sleep. 
I  didn't  want  to  go  home." 

By  diminishing  sounds,  the  great  city 
marked  its  swing  from  dark  to  dawn,  but 
Pat  and  Eric  ignored  them.  They  heard 
the  traffic  along  Central  Park  South  hush 
to  country-lane  proportions,  but  they  went 
on  discussing  the  play  they  had  seen. 
They  heard  the  aged  drivers  of  the  even 
more  aged  hansom  cabs  draw  up  across 
the  street  to  discharge  their  last  loads  of 
park-touring  sweethearts.  But,  as  the  ven- 
erable horses  went  clop-clopping  home- 
ward, Pat  and  Eric  continued  to  speak  of 
her  aims  and  hopes  and  ambitions  in  the 
theater.  Finally,  even  Fritz,  the  courtly 
headwaiter,  had  bowed  and  retired,  leav- 
ing the  clearing  up  to  impatient  busboys. 
But  still  the  two  lingered. 

Pat  recalls,  "It  was  the  first  time  Eric 
had  told  me  much  about  himself.  Because 
his  father  was  a  diplomat,  he  had  spent 
his  childhood  in  many  cities,  many  coun- 
tries and  he  had  a  way  of  making  places 
and  events  come  alive.  I  learned  he  had 
studied  art,  sculpture  and  industrial  de- 
sign in  Italy,  taken  his  degree  in  interna- 
tional law  in  Switzerland,  and  received 
his  Ph.D.  in  philosophy  from  the  Sorbonne, 
in  Paris." 

She  had  loved  hearing  about  the  rich 
variety  of  his  working  life.  For  a  man  in 
his  early  thirties,  it  was  a  remarkable 
record.  In  Paris,  he  had  designed  sets  for 
a  theater  eind  high  fashions  for  Dior,  be- 
fore concentrating  on  advertising  art  and 
illustration.  Then  the  Mexican  govern- 
ment commissioned  him  "to  integrate 
American  products  manufactured  in  Mex- 
ico with  Mexican  styles  and  culture  so  that 
they  were  compatible  with  Mexican  stand- 
ards"— as  he  had  quoted  from  the  official 
assignment. 

In  1950,  he  had  opened  a  New  York  office 
as    an    independent    designer.     Later,    he 


joined  Lippincott  and  Margulies,  Inc.,  one 
of  the  leaders  in  the  field.  "Now  I  do  a 
little  of  everything,"  he  had  summarized, 
"Package  design,  factory  studies,  advertis- 
ing— everything  that  fits  into  the  selling  of 
a  product.  Sometimes,  I'm  even  out  in  a 
supermarket  watching  to  see  which  prod- 
ucts catch  a  housewife's  attention." 

His  talk  fascinated  Pat.  "I  won't  even 
now  say  I  understand  it,"  she  says.  "But 
it's  close  enough  to  radio  and  television 
advertising  so  that  I  had  some  opinions, 
too.  I  also  had  a  lot  of  questions,  and 
Eric,  through  his  research,  could  tell  me 
why  certain  things  happened." 

Perhaps  it  was  because  she  was  so  in- 
terested in  what  he  had  to  say  that  she 
was  slow  to  reaUze  that,  as  he  talked,  the 
character  of  the  man  himself  was  revealed 
by  his  conmient. 

Pat,  remembering  the  startling  moment 
of  discovering  her  own  reaction,  recalls, 
"It  finally  got  through  to  me  that  here 
Wcis  a  person  quite  in  contrast  to  those 
acquaintances  I  had  found  so  depressing. 
He  Wcis  constructive,  rather  than  destruc- 
tive; he  was  creative,  rather  than  grasp- 
ing. I  had  held  a  defensive  attitude  for 
so  long  that  it  truly  surprised  me  when 
I  realized,  'Why,  I  like  this  man!' " 

The  conclusion  led  to  a  decision.  "As 
we  walked  home,  I  also  realized  that  he 
would  be  fully  justified  if  he  believed  I 
was  nothing  but  a  howling  hypochondriac. 
I  had  moaned  about  that  silly  tooth  and 
I  had  treated  him  worse  than  any  man  I 
had  ever  known.  Right  then,  I  made  up 
my  mind  to  be  nicer  to  him." 

With  the  decision  had  come  an  entire 
new,  happier  frame  of  mind.  Says  Pat, 
"Sundays  became  our  special  days.  We'd 
drive  out  to  Connecticut  or  up  the  Hud- 
son, looking  for  some  unusual  little  restau- 
rant to  have  dinner.  Each  trip  became  an 
adventure."  Then  came  the  Sunday  which 
was  brightest  of  all.  Pat  says,  "It  really 
was  strange  the  way  it  happened.  Before 
starting  our  drive,  we  were  having  coffee 
and  roUs  at  my  apartment.  .  .  ." 

Eric  had  been  unusually  silent.  Then, 
without  prelude  or  preparation,  he  had 
looked  up  from  his  plate  and  said,  "I  don't 
suppose  you'd  marry  me,  would  you?" 

Pat,  totally  overwhelmed,  could  only 
nod.  "For  fully  thirty  seconds,  I  bobbed 
my  head  up  and  down.  I  couldn't  say  a 
word."  Neither,  it  turned  out,  could  Eric. 
Shy  as  a  pair  of  teenagers  over  a  first 
kiss,  they  had  hiurried  to  the  car  and,  in  a 
flustered  flurry,  talked  of  everything  else 
under  the  sun. 

For  an  equally  flustered  week,  the  word 
"marriage"  never  was  mentioned.  By  the 
next  Sunday  morning,  Pat  could  stand  the 
suspense  no  longer.  Summoning  all  her 
nerve,  she  confronted  him:  "A  week 
ago,  you  asked  me  something.  Did  you 
mean  it?" 

Eric  had  masked  his  own  self-conscio\is- 
ness  with  a  show  of  indignation.  "Of 
course,  I  meant  it.  You  know  I  don't  kid 
about  serious  matters." 

Only  then  did  an  objective  view  of  the 
scene  filter  through.  Simultaneously,  they 
realized  that,  in  what  should  have  been 
the  tenderest,  most  romantic  moment  of 
their  lives — the  moment  of  proposal  and 
acceptance — they  were,  in  utter  bashful- 
ness,  glaring  at  each  other. 

"We  laughed  imtil  we  almost  collapsed 
in  each  other's  arms,"  Pat  says.  "We  ad- 
mitted, too,  we  had  both  had  the  same 
thought.  Because  our  falUng  in  love  had 
been  sudden,  each  of  us  had  been  afraid 
that  the  other  might  not  share  it.  I  sup- 
pose we  had  both  developed  the  habit  of 
trying  to  make  work  take  the  place  of 
love  in  our  lives." 

But,  once  they  knew,  the  doubts  and 
diflferences  vanished.  Pat's  voice  turns 
soft  as  she  recalls:    "Spring  was  coming, 


and  on  our  drives,  watching  the  trees  bud 
and  the  grass  turn  green,  we  felt  we  had 
a  part  in  it.  We  were  going  along  with 
the  current  of  life,  rather  than  against  it. 
There  was  a  feeling  of  being  a  part  of 
that  creative  force  which  is  basic." 

The  feeling  showed  itself  in  many  ways. 
When  they  found  an  apartment,  Pat  moved 
in  immediately.  "Doing  the  painting  and 
decorating  together  was  fun,"  she  says, 
"but  designing  the  garden  became  almost 
as  important  as  the  house.  There  we  could 
see  things  grow." 

Almost  immediately,  she  bought,  as  a 
present  for  Eric,  a  Christmas  tree.  "We 
wanted  a  living  one,"  she  explains.  The 
first  tree  proved  iU-fated.  When  Pat  re- 
turned in  early  August  from  a  summer 
stock  engagement,  Eric  had  planted  it,  but 
already  the  needles  were  turning  brown. 
"I  guess  I  should  have  dug  deeper,"  he 
confessed  ruefuUy,  "but  I  struck  a  cement 
block  and  a  sewer  pipe  and  I  quit."  It  was 
his  turn  to  buy  a  tree  for  Pat.  That,  too, 
failed  to  take  root.  "But,"  says  Pat,  "we 
then  bought  one  together,  and  it's  flour- 
ishing." 

Their  wedding  ceremony,  too,  was  the 
result  of  joint  planning.  "I  have  a  deep 
conviction,"  says  Pat,  "that  getting  married 
is  so  personal  I  wanted  no  one  there,  ex- 
cept our  witnesses.  Eric,  however,  pointed 
out  my  mother  and  sisters  would  be  hurt. 
We  talked  it  over  and  finally  told  Mother 
that,  while  at  the  service  itself  we  wanted 
only  the  closest  family,  she  could  plan  a 
reception  as  big  and  as  gala  as  she  and 
my   stepfather   could    dream   up." 

1  hey  were  married  in  the  little  chapel 
of  the  Central  Presbyterian  Church  on 
September  27,  1954.  Pat's  dress  was  a 
ballet-length  white  lace  over  pale  pink 
silk.  For  the  drive  to  the  reception  at 
River  House,  she  added  a  pink  satin  coat. 
"Everyone  said  I  was  silly  to  insist  on  a 
short  wedding  dress,"  she  says,  "but  the 
gown  and  the  coat  made  a  wonderful 
costume  later  when  we  went  to  the  opera. 
Jiach  time  I  put  it  on,  I  feel  like  a  bride 
again." 

Eric's  ring,  too,  is  an  enduring  joy. 
Spirals  of  diamond-set  platinum  link  four 
deep-blue  star  sapphires  in  a  circlet.  "It 
means  even  more,"  says  Pat,  "because  he 
designed  it  himself." 

Their  happiness,  they  have  both  found, 
has  brought  a  new  quality  to  their  work. 
Says  Pat,  "Now  it's  easier  to  interpret  a 
role,  particularly  in  The  Doctor's  Wife.  I 
have  a  warmer,  deeper  feeling  for  it.  Often, 
some  little  thing  which  has  happened  be- 
tween Eric  and  me  makes  the  difference. 
And  it's  wonderful  to  see  when  I've 
pleased  him.  He'll  listen  to  a  show  and, 
if  he  doesn't  happen  to  like  it,  he  never 
says  a  word.  But  when  he  approves,  his 
face  lights  up;  it  means  more  to  me  than 
all  the  applause  in  the  world." 

Such  inspiration  is  not  one-sided.  Often 
a  comment  of  Pat's  will  send  Eric  to  the 
drawing  board  saying,  "Now  that  gives  me 
an  idea.   .   .   ." 

One  of  the  proudest  achievements  in  the 
Teran  household  this  season  is  the  closed- 
circuit  TV  CEimera  which  the  Lippincott 
and  MarguUes  staff  designed  for  the  Gen- 
eral Precision  Laboratories  at  Pleasant- 
ville.  New  York.  As  the  picture  on  page 
50  shows,  it  is  astoundingly  tiny  and  has 
a  portable  control  unit.  Says  Pat:  "All  I 
contributed  toward  the  project  was  a  will- 
ingness to  sit  in  as  an  animated  test  pat- 
tern, but  it  was  fun.  I  just  glow  when  I  feel 
I  may  have  helped  Eric,  even  a  little." 

They  agree,  too,  on  what  they  want  from 
marriage.  Pat  returns  to  their  springtime 
courtship:  "To  move  with  the  current  of 
life,  rather  than  against  it.  To  be  a  part 
of  that  creativeness  which  is  basic.  To 
grow  together." 


i\foiv/l79  EASY  WAYS 
TO  MAKE  MONEY 


'       SHOW  FRIENDS 

NEW  TALL  STYLE 

Christmas  &  All  Occasion 

GREETING  CARD,- 

ASSORTMENTS^ 

folks  are  wild  about ^^ 


Hew  19**  „_ 

COID  EWBOSSEO 

TAIL   CARD      _«•■■! 


TAlt  CARD 

chrHtmM  A«»  »  W 


Make 

»50-»75 

■MOO 


New  »»**-K 
TAU  W-CARp 


EXTRA 
MONEY 

AGAIN 
AND  AGAIN 


WE. 

"ACTION" 
COMIC 

Christm»s 
Ass't. 


Hew  19**, »   -.  al-'^i'l, 

^ocAromI  ^^J^ 

CARDS  in  ^   »„•!. 
true-to-life-Mlof* 


P^UP   77  Name  Imprinted 
rilCC    SAMPLES  of 

Christmas  Cards,  Stationery,  Notes,  Napkins 


PROFITS  TO  100% 
PLUS  CASH  BONUS 

Take  easy  orders  spare  time 
for  amazing  value  Christmas, 
year  'round  box  assortments, 
home  and  gift  novelties,  wed- 
dinginvitations  and  announce- 
ments. No  experience  needed. 
FREE  Personal  Christmas  Card 
album. 


Start  A  Greeting  Card  and 
Gift  Shop  At  Home 


MAKE  FRIENDLY  SOCIAL  CALLS.  New  Pa«y  P}a? 
increases  income.  Have  money  for  new  clotnes, 
furnishines.  your  club  or  church  treasury. 


FUND  RAISING  PLAN  — PREMIUM  OFFERS 
Make  up  to  $1.00  per  box! 


ONE    MONEY   MAKER  SAYS:   "I  have   been  < 
selling  your  cards  for  almost  two  years  and  I 
have  made  enough  money  to  buy  a  lot  of  things^ 
I  have  wanted." — Diane   Carey  of  Illinois 


Let  us  send  you  for  FREE  TRIAL 
EVERYTHING  YOU  NEED  to  get  started 


WRITE   TODAY 

for  actual  boxes  on  /Moneys 
approval  and  FREE  Ishows 
48-pa&e  full  color 
illustrated  catalog. 
If  outfit  does  not 
mahe  money  for  you 
in  a  jiffy,  return  it 
at   our    expense. 

New  England  Art  Publishers 

North  Abington,  921,  Mass. 

■  ■Send  No  Money — Mail  Coupon  Now 

NEW    ENGLAND   ART    PUBLISHERS 

North  Abington,  921,  Mass. 
Please  send  me  at  once  Feature 
assortments  on  approval,  free  sam- 
ples Personal  Christmas  Cards, 
Stationery,  Notes,  Napkins,  free 
Catalog,  selling  Guide,  Premium 
Offers  and  details  of  your  wonder- 
ful extra  money  plan. 


Name- 


D 


Check  here  if  writing  for  club  or  church 
organization    interested   in  raising  funds. 

■  ■tmNo  Risk  On  Your  Part"-*i"» 


89 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

jKIN-COLURED.  . .  hides  pimples  while  if  works 


DOCTORS'  TESTS  PROVE 

9  out  of  10  coses  cleared  up 

...or  definifely  improved 


Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation  especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  defimtely  im- 
proved while  using  clearasil. 
Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil  actu- 
ally starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the 
oils  that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  clearasil's 
antiseptic  action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria 
that  can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored 
to  hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless . . .  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 
America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication ...  because  clearasil  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED 
to  work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or 
money  back.  Only  59#  and  98^.  At  all  druggists- 
Get  CLEARASIL  today. 


Now  also  available  in  Canada  (slightly  more) 


12  NEW  TOWELS  only  $1.00 

LARGE  SIZE!  Assorted  colors.  New!  Not  seconds.  Non- 
woven  COTTON  and  RAYON.  Money-back  guarantee.  Sup- 
ply limited.  Order  Now!  R.  J.  HOMAKERS  CO.,  Dept.  811. 
Box   264,    Farmingdale,    L.I.,    N.Y. 

Housework 
Easy  Without 
Nagging  Backaciie 

Nagging  backache,  headache,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  folks  who 
eat  and  drinkunwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation... with  thatrestless,uncomfortablefeeling. 
If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  Pills  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mild  diuretic  action 

'  through  the  kidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output 

V         of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

a  So  if  nagging  backache  makes  you  feel  dragged- 

out,  miserable... with  restless,  sleepless  nights... 
don't  wait.. .try  Doan's  Pills... get  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  enjoyed.for  over  60  years.  Get 
Doan's  Pills  todayl 

90 


The  $64,000  Question 


{Continued  from  page  44) 
says,  "the  sponsor  is  going  to  be  very  un- 
happy if  contestants  don't  win  at  least  a 
million  dollars  a  year." 

Hal  is  master  of  the  biggest  cash  quiz  in 
the  history  of  radio  and  TV,  The  $64,000 
Question,  Tuesday  nights  on  CBS-TV.  Hal 
also  co-stars  with  Tom  D'Andrea  over 
NBC-TV,  on  Saturday  nights,  with  a  com- 
edy titled  The  Soldiers.  The  clue  to  the 
true  Hal  is  on  the  quiz,  where  he  is  ex- 
pected to  be  merely  good-natured,  hand- 
some, lovable,  quick-witted,  sympathetic, 
intelligent,  respectful — a  nice  guy,  which 
he  is,  anyway.  But  there's  nothing  in  his 
contract   about   remaining   a   bachelor. 

"Am  I  ehgible?  Well,  I  like  kids  and  I 
make  enough  to  support  a  thin  wife  and 
I've   got  this  apartment." 

Once  a  week,  he  commutes  to  New  York 
from  his  handsome,  duplex  apartment 
above  Sunset  Boulevard,  in  California.  His 
rooms  are  packed  with  books  and  records 
and  paintings — for,  besides  cooking  and 
girls,  Hal's  chief  interests  are  reading, 
music  and  paintings  by  contemporary 
artists.  Hal  decorated  the  apartment,  and 
autumn  colors  predominate.  Most  of  the 
furnishings  are  massive,  modern  pieces 
built  to  his  own  designs. 

Hal,  himself,  is  a  fairly  modern  piece,  not 
exactly  massive — but  rugged,  with  an  ath- 
letic stance.  He  is  thirty -five,  stands  a 
shade  under  six  feet,  has  brown  eyes  and 
type-0  blood.  He  has  dark  brown,  curly 
hair  that  waves  gently  in  gentle  breezes — 
as  does  his  nose,  which  lists  slightly.  Hal's 
nose  has  been  broken  three  times:  Once 
during  the  course  of  his  boxing  career,  the 
second  time  in  a  GI  ball  game,  and  the 
third  time  by  Jackie  Gleason  in  a  TV  skit. 
Women  seem  pleased  with  his  looks  and 
find  fault  only  in  that  he  appears  to  be 
happily  single. 

However,  he  figures  he  is  ready  for  mar- 
riage now.  It  has  something  to  do  with 
coming  to  understand  himself,  a  process 
that  began  some  ten  years  ago.  About  this, 
he  doesn't  joke. 

He  was  born  in  San  Francisco.  He  had 
three  sisters  and  two  brothers.  His  father 
owned  a  delicatessen  and  they  were  never 
hard  up — and  never  rich.  His  parents  were 
very  much  in  love  and  Hal  doesn't  ever 
remember  a  bitter  argument  or  fight.  The 
family  spirit  was  fine  and  each  of  the 
children  had  respect  and  affection  for  one 
another.  Hal  recalls:  "I  was  fifteen  years 
old  before  I  knew  that  my  oldest  brother 
and  sister  were  really  my  half-brother  and 
half-sister." 

Hal  got  his  first  theatrical  experience  in 
his  father's  store.  At  the  age  of  seven,  he 
began  mimicking  the  customers.  His 
mother  was  a  mimic,  too.  But  only  Hal 
got  spanked — for  he  mimicked  customers 
to  their  faces.  "And  I  began  to  pick  up 
their  accents,"  he  recalls.  "By  the  time  I 
was  in  high  school,  I  could  do  a  couple- 
dozen  dialects." 

In  high  school,  Hal  wrote,  directed  and 
starred  in  plays  and  operettas.  He  was 
also  a  three-letter  man — football,  track 
and  baseball.  He  was  an  amateur  boxer 
and  won  most  of  some  twenty-five  fights, 
but  decided  against  professional  boxing. 
"I  guess  I  didn't  have  the  killer  instinct," 
he  notes,  "but  you  can't  have  everything." 

In  favorite  subjects — such  as  English, 
languages  and  speech — he  made  good 
grades,  but  flopped  around  in  the  sciences. 
He  was  popular  and  was  elected  president 
of  the  student  body.  He  says:  "My  family 
liked  me  but  thought  I  was  a  bum.  Not 
a  real,  unconditionally-guaranteed  bum, 
but  kind  of  a  bum — because  I  didn't  like 
to  work." 


He  was  always  getting  fired  from  after 
school  and  weekend  jobs.  As  president  of 
the  student  body,  he  automatically  got  a 
weekend  sales  job  in  a  department  store. 
They  threw  him  out — and  not  because  he 
mimicked  customers.  Actually,  he  was  nice 
to  the  customers.  He  talked  about  foot- 
ball, told  jokes,  played  with  the  kids.  He 
just  wouldn't  sell  them  anything.  "I 
wanted  to  be  an  actor  and  only  an  actor," 
he  explains. 

The  moment  he  got  his  high  school  di- 
ploma, he  packed  his  bag  and  went  to 
Hollywood.  He  had  decided  he  would  be- 
gin his  career  by  starring  in  pictures  and 
afterwards,  maybe,  go  on  to  Broadway.  He 
even  took  the  precaution  of  wearing  dark 
glasses  so  that  he  wouldn't  be  mobbed  by- 
autograph  fans  when  he  went  to  see  a 
cousin,  Irving  Kumin,  who  was  casting 
director  at  Warner  Brothers. 

"Well,  I'm  here." 

"I  can  see  that,"  Irving  said. 

Hal  waited  for  Irving  to  whip  out  a 
contract — still  doubtful  as  to  whether  he 
would  sign,  or  just  free-lance.  But  Irving 
didn't  make  a  move,  so  Hal  repeated,  "I 
want  to  act  in  pictures." 

"What   have   you   done   professionally?" 

Hal  gave  his  credits  in  high  school  and 
little-theater  productions,  then  noted  the 
dialects  he  could  do.  He  concluded,  "Now, 
suppose  you  need  a  seventeen-year-old 
boy  who  speaks  English  with  a  French 
accent.  I  could  d,o  it." 

"Well,  I'll  tell  you,"  Irving  said.  "If  I 
need  a  seventeen-year-old  boy  who  speaks 
English  with  a  French  accent,  I'll  get  a 
real  French  boy." 

Hal,  slightly  stunned,  said  nothing.  Then 
Irving  Kumin — who  is  Hal's  agent  today 
— said  in  a  kindly  tone:  "Look,  kid,  go  out 
and  get  some  real  experience.  You're 
young.  Don't  rush  it." 

Hal  took  the  advice,  but  he  couldn't 
keep  from  rushing.  He  turned  down  a 
scholarship  at  the  Pasadena  Playhouse  and 
went  to  work  in  a  night  club  with  four 
other  entertainers.  They  had  more  enthusi- 
asm than  know-how  and  rapidly  shrunk 
to  a  quartet,  trio,  duo — and  then  there 
was  Hal  alone.  Someone  muttered  a  few 
un-magic  words,  and  he  was  working  in 
burlesque.  He  was  young  and  handsome, 
with  a  fair  baritone  singing  voice,  so  foimd 
himself  singing  "Mighty  Lak  a  Rose," 
while  the  strippers  stripped. 

"It  was  very  frustrating,"  he  recalls. 
"There  I  was,  right  out  on  the  stage — and 
no  one  ever  looked  at  me." 

Uncle  Sam  came  to  his  rescue  when 
World  War  II  broke  out  and  Hal  was 
drafted.  At  the  classification  center,  he 
asked  to  be  put  in  Special  Services  so  he 
could  entertain. 

"They're  looking  for  guys  like  you," 
said  the  interviewing  officer.  "You  have 
a  fine  background." 

Hal  elaborated  a  little. 

"That's  great.  Just  great,"  the  officer  said. 

"I  know  all  the  entertainers  in  Los 
Angeles,"  Hal  continued.  "If  you  station 
me  around  here,  I  could  do  a  terrific  job 
of  setting  up  shows." 

"Finding  a  man  like  you  is  almost  too 
much  to  hope  for." 

Hal's  orders  came  through  shortly  and 
he  was  assigned  to  a  searchlight  battery. 

He  was  stationed  in  the  state  of  Wash- 
ington and,  when  Christmas  came  along, 
he  volunteered  to  prepare  an  hour-and-a- 
half  show  for  the  base.  In  a  few  weeks' 
time  he  wrote,  directed  and  starred  in  the 
show.  He  had  no  other  professional  help, 
but  the  show  was  a  tremendous  success, 
so  successful  that  the  commanding  gen- 
eral of  the  base  invited  Hal  to  his  office. 

The  general  congratulated  Hal  and  they 


had  a  long  talk  and  Hal  told  the  general 
that  his  real  ambition  was  to  get  into 
Special  Services  and  the  general  whole- 
heartedly agreed.  Within  a  week,  Hal  got 
his   new    orders — for    radar    school. 

"I  had  no  right  to  be  upset.  I  just  didn't 
tmderstand  the  Army."  Hal  recalls,  "Then 
I  met  this  other  draftee.  He  had  several 
college  degrees.  He  had  passed  the  bar  and 
practiced  law.  He  had  held  several  admin- 
istrative jobs  and  was  even  head  of  the 
state  police  in  his  home  state.  But,  in  the 
Army,  he  was  a  permanent  orderly  in  the 
mess  hall.  After  studying  his  situation,  I 
imderstood  the  Army." 

Out  of  radar  school,  Hal  was  returned 
to  the  Washington  woods.  He  got  so  bored 
among  the  foliage  that  he  prayed  to  be 
sent  overseas.  But  it  was  there  that  he 
began  to  grow. 

"We  went  into  a  forest  with  radar  equip- 
ment," he  recalls.  "I  don't  think  there'd 
ever  been  a  man  in  there  before.  Some  of 
the  trees  were  thousands  of  years  old.  It 
was  something.  It  made  me  realize  for  the 
first  time  how  trivial  my  problems  were, 
and  I  think  that  was  the  first  time  I  began 
to  see  I  took  myself  too  seriously." 

He  didn't  get  overseas  and,  in  spite  of 
a  healthy  physique,  the  Army  in  its  il- 
logical way  separated  him  in  1943  because 
of  flat  feet.  Hal  went  to  work  at  Station 
KYA  in  San  Francisco.  Here  he  met  his 
p)artner-to-be.  Bob  Sweeney,  who  was 
chief  announcer.  After  six  months'  experi- 
ence on  staff,  Hal  departed  for  Los  Angeles 
again.  He  was  impatient  to  get  into  big- 
time  radio  and  happily  got  a  job  in  a 
regional  daytime  serial,  The  Story  Of 
Sandra  Martin,  as  Sandra's  private  eye. 

"Then  Sweeney  joined  me,"  Hal  says, 
"and  he  said  it  was  about  time  we  got 
into  the  big-time  and  I  told  him  that  I'd 
already  arrived.  But  he  disagreed." 

They  shared  a  garret  on  Gower  Street. 
They  beat  their  heads  against  various 
walls,  looking  for  assignments.  Finally, 
they  decided  to  write  their  own  shows.  In 
three  hours,  they  wrote  three  fifteen-min- 
ute programs.  Within  ten  days'  time  they 
were  signed  by  William  Morris  Agency, 
they  auditioned  and  transcribed  their  show 
widi  a  live  audience,  and  then  watched 
their  agent  turn  down  a  contract  offer 
from  a  soap  manufacturer. 

"We  were  down  to  our  last  bar  of  soap 
and  suffering  from  vitamin  deficiency  and 
dull  razor  blades,"  he  moans,  "and  our 
agent  turned  down  the  offer." 

It  had  something  to  do  with  property 
rights.  Anyway,  the  boys  were  soon  guest- 
ing on  network  shows  and  shortly  began 
an  89-week  run  of  their  own  on  CBS. 
After  that  they  worked  as  singles.  Hal 
was  on  the  Como,  Gleason,  Benny  and 
Hope  shows.  He  played  the  next-door 
neighbor  on  Bums  and  Allen's  radio  and 
TV  shows.  Then  the  Sweeney-March  com- 
bo was  reactivated  as  a  disc  jockey  team 
for  a  year  and,  right  afterwards,  Hal  and 
Tom  D'Andrea  made  their  debut  on  Don- 
ald O'Connor's  edition  of  the  Comedy 
Hour  with  their  soldier  routine. 

In  between  times,  Hal  also  worked  in 
pictures  as  a  writer  and  as  an  actor.  He 
plays  a  punchy  fighter  in  a  new  release, 
"It's  Always  Fair  Weather,"  with  Gene 
Kelly  and  Cyd  Charisse.  He  had  a  serious 
role  in  a  recent  film,  "Yankee  Pasha."  Jeff 
Chandler  had  the  first  lead  and,  while  he 
was  pursuing  Rhonda  Fleming,  Hal,  as 
captain  of  the  Cavalry,  did  a  lot  of  fenc- 
ing— but  it  wasn't  so  bad,  for  near  the 
end  of  the  picture  he  got  to  break  lances 
with  Mamie  Van  Doren.  January  of  this 
year,  he  came  on  to  New  York  to  play 
the  husband  in  the  Imogene  Coca  series. 

"I've  never  worked  with  a  more  tal- 
ented person  than  Imogene,"  he  says. 
"No  one  fully  realizes  how  great  she  is." 

He    tvrmed    his    Hollywood    apartment 


over  to  a  friend  and  moved  into  a  two- 
room  suite  in  a  Manhattan  hotel.  In  the 
hotel,  he  owned  nothing  more  than  his 
clothes,  and  the  only  thing  he  contributed 
to  the  appearance  was  an  old  paper  clip 
he  dropped  on  the  writing  table. 

"I  missed  having  an  apartment  of  my 
own,"  he  says.  "I  like  to  entertain.  It's 
better  than  a  night  club.  I  like  the  kind 
of  conversation  you  get  in  a  home." 

He  likes  either  Hollywood  or  New  York, 
for  he  has  good  friends  in  both  towns. 
Friends  he  values  above  job  and  dollar. 
This  is  part  of  the  growing  up  he  talks  of. 

"It  was  a  matter  of  learning  to  evalu- 
ate," he  says.  "Now,  Bob  Sweeney  is  one 
of  my  best  friends.  Yet  there  was  one 
time  we  didn't  speak  to  each  other.  We 
worked  in  the  same  office  and  did  our 
show,  but  we  had  this  mad  on.  After  a 
week  of  it,  we  felt  a  little  foolish  and 
finally  talked  it  out.  We  agreed  that,  in 
the  future,  we  would  never  let  business 
come  first." 

Hal  was  best  man  at  Sweeney's  wedding 
and  is  the  godfather  of  Bob's  and  Beverly's 
child,  Bridget,  "ll^ey're  wonderful,"  he 
says  of  the  Sweeneys.  "Their  respect  for 
one  another  deepens  from  year  to  year, 
and   it's  reflected  in  Bridget's  happiness." 

iial  believes  the  reason  for  most  un- 
happiness  in  marriage  is  that  couples 
marry  too  young,  at  least  before  they 
know  themselves. 

"You've  got  to  see  yourself  honestly.  If 
you  aren't  happy  with  yourself,  how  dare 
you  take  on  responsibility  for  someone 
else's  happiness?"  He  recalls:  "There  was 
a  girl  I  was  very  much  in  love  with,  some 
years  ago.  She  married  someone  else,  and 
I  carried  the  torch  for  a  long  time.  It's 
only  now  that  I  see  that — even  if  we  had 
married  then — we  couldn't  have  been 
happy.  I  wasn't  ready  then." 

In  a  way,  Hal's  a  kind  of  romantic  type. 
He  dines  his  dates  where  the  music  is  soft 
and  sweet.  He  likes  to  visit  picture  gal- 
leries and  museums.  He  has  a  feeling  for 
historic  things,  and  a  Lincoln  quill  pen  or 
an  old  town  sends  him.  When  in  New 
York,  he  spends  a  lot  of  time  in  the  Mu- 
seum of  Modern  Art  and  in  driving  north 
through  old  New  England  villages.  Back 
on  the  Coast,  he  likes  to  pick  up  a  date 
around  dusk,  drive  out  to  the  shore  for 
dinner  and  more  dusk. 

Hal  figures  he  is  now  ready  for  mar- 
riage. He'd  like  a  wife  to  have  a  sense  of 
humor  and  tolerance  for  herself  as  well  as 
others.  He  doesn't  care  much  whether 
she's  tall  or  small,  rare  or  medium, 
spacious  or  thin.  The  only  specific  require- 
ment is  that  she  have  built-in  hi-fidelity 
equipment,  for  Hal  is  nuts  about  singing. 
In  the  past,  he  has  dated  Doris  Day, 
Gloria  DeHaven,  Kay  Starr  and  Betty  Ann 
Grove,  to  name  a  few  charming  song- 
birds. He  and  Peggy  Lee  are  close  friends. 

"Why  settle  for  a  record  and  phono- 
graph when  you  can  have  the  real  thing?" 
he  says.  He  has  developed  subtle,  un- 
scrupulous methods  for  obtaining  free  pri- 
vate concerts.  One  trick  is  to  start  out 
humming  a  tune.  "You  know,"  he'll  say 
thoughtfully,  "I  think  that's  an  early 
Rodgers  and  Hart  number.  Know  it?" 

Once  the  gal  picks  up  the  song,  he 
cagily  drops  out,  sits  back  and  listens. 
He's  positively  greedy  about  singers  and 
probably  the  best  one-man  audience  in  the 
country.  On  the  other  hand,  he's  willing 
to  pay  the  piper  and  will  knock  himself 
out  preparing  exotic  dishes  for  a  date. 

"It's  all  fun.  It's  the  little  things  that 
make  living,"  he  says.  "That's  the  answer 
to  the  big  $64,000  question.  You're  born, 
you  live  a  little  and  you  die.  The  thing 
to  do  is  to  stay  awake  and  aware  of  life 
aroimd  you,  rather  than  getting  tied  up 
in  yourself." 


never  before 


ALL-IN-ONE 


WALK-AWAY 

Imagine!  A  light,  action-free  corselette  with  spe- 
cial patented  criss-cross  elastx  shoulder  straps 
that  bares  your  back.  Even  the  larger-than-aver- 
age  figure  can  have  alluring  separation  .  .  . 
youthful  uplift  and  dependable  support. 


INTRODUCTORY   SAli 


FIRST  QUALITY 


# 


A  CUP:  32-36 
B  CUP:  32-42 
C  CUP:  32-42 

Comes  in 
White  or  Pinic 


•  Glorious  Comfort 

•  Light-as-a-Feather 
2-Way  Stretch 

•  No  Wires,  No  Stays 

•  No  Squeezing,  No  Bones 

•  No  Binding,  No  Pinching 

•  No  Chafing 
The  moment  you  step  into  feather-light  Walk- 
Away  you'll  look  up  to  3  inches  thinner  and  years 
younger!  You  can  fit  into  the  smaller,  high-fashion 
clothes  you've  always  wanted  to  wear.  Your 
tummy,  waistline  and  "spare  tire"  bulge  will  be 
flat  and  smooth  .  .  .  your  hips  and  derriere  will 
be  thin  and  trim.  Bra  made  of  embroidered  nylon 
marquisette  upper  cups  with  acetated  satin  lower 
cups.  Lastex  center  panel  and  unique  criss-cross 
elastic  shoulder  strap  extensions.  Built-in  woven 
rib  stitch  panel  2V2-inch  elastic  diagonal  hipline 
panels. 

AT  THE  PRICE  YOU'D  PAY  FOR  A  GIRDLE  OR  BRA  ALONE . . . 


Regular  Girdle 

or 

Panty  Girdle 

with 

"Hide-a-way" 

detachable 

snap-button 

crotch 


MAIL   FRCl   TRIAL   COUPON   TODAy 


WILCO  FASHIONS,  DEPT.  F114K 

35  S.  Park  Ave.,  Rockville  Centre,  New  York  I 

Please  rush  ALL-IN-ONE  WALK-AWAY  on  approval.  I 

If  not  delighted,   I  may  return  it  within  ten   (10)   days  j 

for  refund  of  purchase   price.  | 

I   enclose   $ You   pay   postage.  ■ 

Send   C.O.D.    I'll   pay  $ plus   postage.  I 

Please  Check:  I 

O  Regular  Girdle  D  Panty  Girdle  with  "Hide-a-way"  I 

crotch.  Color:   Whjte  D        Pink  □  I 

BRA  SIZE   please SEND    ME  EXTRA  | 

WAIST  SIZE   please CROTCHES  at  49c;  each  | 

NAME    (Print) j 


ADDRESS    (Print) 

CITY ZONE.. 


.STATE. 


91 


92 


FRSS 

CATALOG 

LARGER  WOMEN, 


LOOK 

SIZES  SLIMMER 

IN  THE 

NEW  YOUNG   STYLES 


Rayon  Faille  Charmer 
One  of  Roaman's  many 
wonderful  values  . . . 


HALF  SIZES  I6V2  to26V2 


If  you  are  a  shorter 
women,  you'll  see 
o  complete  selection  of  the  lovely,  new,  young  clothes, 
proportioned-to-fit  you  perfectly.  Dresses,  coats,  suits, 
sportswear,  corsets,   bros,   underwear   and  shoes. 


STOUT  SIZES  38  to  52 


Look  sizes  slimmer 
in  this  Fall's  most 
youthful  fashions  designed  in  your  size  ...  guaranteed 
to  fit  beautifully  ond  moke  you   look  younger,  smarter. 

Get  4  FREE  Fashion  Books  o  Year  .  .  .  Mail  Coupon  Today! 


\]l^mKs 


I  NAME 

I  ADDRESS- 


.  TOWN. 


FIFTH  AVENUE  at  39th  Street  , 
Dept.  T-5,    New  York  18,  N.  Y.    I 
RUSH  me  new  FREE  Catalog  | 

I 


_STATE_ 


FALSE  TEETH 

KLUTCH  holds  them  tighter 

KLUTCH  forms  a  comfort  cushion;  holds  dental  plates 
so  much  firmer  and  snugger  that  one  can  eat  and  talk 
with  greater  comfort  and  security;  in  many  cases  al- 
most as  well  as  with  natnral  teeth.  Klutch  lessens  the 
constant  fear  of  a  dropping,  rocking,  chafing  plate.  35c 
and  60c  at  druggists.  If  your  druggist  hasn't  it, 
don't  waste  money  on  substitutes,  but  send  us  10c 
and  we  will  mail  you  a  generous  trial  box. 

KLUTCH  CO..  Box  5586-1,  ELMIRA,   N.  Y. 


W 


Ifenlargement 

^  o/youf*  7-avofffe  Photo 


S: 


M^ 


rffiS: 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
^  make  you  a  beautiful  studio  quai- 
ls ity  5  X  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
shot, photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
ment beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10^  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 
HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.F-105 
7021    Santa   Monica  Blvd..   Hollywood  38.  Calif. 

Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieyes  Pain— Shrink*  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    *Keg.  u.  s.  Pat.  off. 


He's  a  Big  Boy  Now 


(Continued  from  page  64) 
at  the  appointed  place  precisely  on  the  dot 
of  12:30.  You  are  greeted  by  a  pretty  re- 
ceptionist who  ushers  you  into  Julie's 
private  office,  assuring  you  that  he  will 
be  along  in  a  matter  of  minutes,  and  please 
make  yourself  at  home.  A  break,  really, 
because  this  presents  an  opportunity  to 
soak  up  a  few  unscheduled  impressions — 
more  revealing  and  reliable,  perhaps,  than 
any  you  may  have  formed  out  of  the  sound 
and  fury  surrounding  his  recent  historical 
hassle. 

This  office  is  obviously  Julius  La  Rosa's 
work-studio,  too.  It's  situated  high  above 
the  bustle  of  "Ulcer  Alley"  and  is  remark- 
ably quieting  to  the  senses.  It's  the  corner 
room  in  a  large  suite  otherwise  occupied 
by  Frank  Barone,  life-long  friend  of  the 
La  Rosa  family  and,  nowadays,  Julie's  at- 
torney and  personal  manager.  The  furnish- 
ings are  modern,  but  not  ostentatiously 
so.  On  the  west  wall,  a  set  of  handsome 
drapes  frames  a  fragmentary  view  of  Man- 
hattan skyline;  from  windows  on  the  other 
wall,  you  can  glimpse  St.  Patrick's  Ca- 
thedral. 

Among  the  things  you  notice  is  one 
article  of  furniture  found  in  precious  few 
Madison  Avenue  offices — a  spinet  piano. 
Near  it  is  a  floor-stand  microphone,  its 
cable  connected  to  a  professional  tape 
recorder  which  rests  on  a  side  shelf.  Sheet 
music,  marked  with  penciled  notations,  is 
on  the  piano  rack  and  the  recording  ma- 
chine is  loaded  with  a  reel  of  magnetic 
tape.  A  forthcoming  La  Rosa  vocal  hit 
glimpsed  in  its  early  stages? 

More  details  come  into  focus  as  you  wait 
for  your  luncheon  companion.  You're 
aware  of  several  golden  glints  in  the  room. 
For  instance,  the  fifteen-inch-high  loving 
cup  which  rests  on  a  corner  shelf  and  on 
which,  can  be  read  the  inscription:  "To 
Julius  La  Rosa,  in  appreciation  of  your 
generous  support  to  our  neighborhood 
K.B.T.  Organization."  Not  far  away,  on  a 
wall,  is  a  gold  plaque  that  expresses  this 
sentiment  from  the  Italian  Chamber  of 
Commerce  of  Chicago:  "In  recognition  of 
his  outstanding  career  and  his  meteoric 
rise  to  stardom."  Neighboring  this  plaque, 
another,  smaller  one  has  this  text  engraved 
on  gold:  "From  the  officers  and  men  of 
the  Submarine  Base,  New  London,  in  ap- 
preciation for  making  our  1953  Navy  Re- 
lief Ball  a  success." 

There  are  other  awards,  including  one 
which  is  to  singers  what  the  Oscar  is  to 
movie  actors.  It  shines  like  a  brilliant  solar 
disc.  It  is  a  facsimile — cast  in  gold — of  the 
millionth  copy  of  "Eh  Cumpari"  which 
Julius  recorded  on  the  Cadence  label.  Sales 
have  long  since  passed  the  million  mark. 

You  wander  over  to  a  smallish  desk 
situated  in  a  corner  between  the  angle  of 
windows.  On  it  is  the  usual  gadgetry:  pen 
set,  blotter  pad,  calendar,  telephone.  It 
isn't  these  that  catch  your  attention.  It's 
the  half-dozen  or  so  books — none  of  which 
seem  to  quite  fit  into  your  previous  mental 
picture  of  this  young-man-with-the-boy- 
ish-smile,  this  pop-tune  personality. 
Among  the  tomes  are  a  richly-bound  book 
titled,  The  Lives  of  Saints,  Selected  and 
Illustrated,  Arnold  Toynbee's  Study  of 
History,  and  Winston  Churchill's  memoirs, 
volume  two.  This  last  one  has  a  couple  of 
"working"  bookmarks  between  pages. 

On  a  near-by  wall  hangs  a  framed, 
hand-lettered  quotation,  some  hundred  or 
so  words  in  length.  Its  authorship  is  not 
indicated,  but  its  message  seems  to  be  one 
of  special  significance. 

"It  is  not  the  critic  who  counts;  not 

the  man  who  points  out  how  the  strong 

man  stumbled  .  .  ." 


Your  reading  of  it  is  interrupted  by 
footsteps  behind  you.  Turning,  you  are 
face  to  face  with  Julius  La  Rosa. 

"Gee,  you  must  be  about  ready  to  flip 
your  lid!"  he  says.  "I'm  sorry  to  have  kept 
you  waiting." 

You  explain  how  absorbed  you've  been, 
that  apologies  are  unnecessary.  His  dark 
eyes  light  up,  and  his  wide,  wide  grin  is 
more  engaging  than  when  viewed  on  the 
TV  screen.  "All  is  forgiven — great!"  he 
exclaims.  "I'm  starved!  Let's  eat!" 

He  takes  your  arm  and  you  fall  in  step 
with  him,  headed  for  the  elevator.  On  the 
way,  office  doors  open  furtively,  feminine 
heads  peek  out.  Reason?  Julius  La  Rosa — 
utterly  uninhibited,  carefree — is  singing  a 
few  bars  of  ballad,  and  that  famous  bari- 
tone of  his  echoes  up  and  down  the  hall. 

No  impromptu  vocalizing  inside  the  ele- 
vator's crowded  car  as  it  descends  to  street 
level.  Only  a  rapid  exchange  of  gags  be- 
tween Julie  and  the  operator.  Outside,  in 
the  bright  sunshine,  Julie  seeks  your  ap- 
proval of  his  suggestion:  luncheon  at  the 
Epicure,  located  only  a  few  minutes'  stroll 
from  his  office  building.  You  readily  ap- 
prove, and  the  stroll  proceeds  with  an  ob- 
bligato  of  superlative-loaded  chatter  from 
Julie.  As  he  talks,  he  tosses  out  expres- 
sions like  "the  greatest"  and  "terrific"  and 
"the  very  livin'  end!"  as  if  he  were  tossing 
out  confetti  at  a  Mardi  Gras.  Most  of  these 
superlatives  are  applied  to  his  regular  and 
his  recently  acquired  enthusiasms.  Is  it 
true  that  he  plays  a  pretty  fair  game  of 
Scrabble?  "Pretty  fair?"  he  almost  shouts. 
"Why,  I'm  the  champ!  The  unbeaten 
Scrabble  champ — up  at  my  office,  that  is," 
he  adds,  grinning.  He  gabs  about  golf, 
claiming  considerably  less  skill  because  it's 
only  weeks  since  he's  been  introduced  to 
the  game.  He's  latched  on  to  chess,  too. 
"I  fiiid  the  game  very  challenging,"  he 
says.  "Beginning  to  learn  a  couple  of 
opening  gambits.  If  you  master  a  good 
gambit,  you  increase  your  chances  for  a 
sure  win." 

Despite  the  noon- hour  peak,  a  choice 
location  table  has  been  kept  open  for  Mr. 
La  Rosa  and  guest.  From  other  tables,  a 
few  show-biz  people  signal  hello.  Julie 
waves  a  friendly  response  and  then  re- 
sumes -  his  ebullient  conversation.  He's 
switched  to  a  very  different  subject:  Win- 
ston Churchill.  There  is  a  sense  of  dis- 
covery, a  zestful  and  unabashed  admira- 
tion in  everything  which  Julie  says  about 
the  world-renowned  figure. 

"This  is  one  terrific  guy,"  he  declares. 
"The  greatest  political  figure  of  our  age." 
You  venture  to  suggest  that,  here  and 
there,  people  might  be  found  who  have 
a  difference  of  opinion  on  that  point. 

"Sure,  there  were  other  'greats'  during 
the  World  War  Two  period,"  he  concedes. 
"But  what  other  man  carried  such  a  load 
of  responsibility  over  a  span  of  so  many 
critical  years?  It's  like  with  the  Yankees, 
'way  back,  and  Joe  DiMaggio.  DiMag  was 
the  spark,  the  one  fusing  force,  that  led  to 
victory.  England  was  like  that  ball  team 
and  Winston  Churchill  was  the  spark,  the 
fusing  force  that  held  it  together.  It  could 
have  been  John  Doe — but  it  happened  to 
Churchill.  England  was  lucky.  A  guy  who 
was  a  brilliant  statesman — but  also  a  guy 
with  a  genius  for  being  human.  It's  fascin- 
ating to  read  about  him,  and  I  do  a  lot  of 
that,  these  days.  You  might  say,  I'm  col- 
lecting Churchill." 

And,  at  this  point,  Julie  laughs  a  Gar- 
gantuan laugh,  almost  doubling  up  with 
mirth.  Gleefully,  he  retells  a  Churchill 
ancedote  he'd  read  the  previous  night.  He 
tells  it  well  and,  when  you  laugh  heartily 
at  the  conclusion,  Julie  beams  his  pleas- 


ure.  Then,  as  if  to  demonstrate  those  ear- 
lier statements  about  being  "famished  .  .  . 
ravenous,"  he  beckons  a  waiter.  "The  roast 
was  very  good,"  he  says.  "I'll  have  an- 
other of  the  same." 

Nothing  in  the  waiter's  expression  be- 
trays any  surprise  at  the  request  for  an 
encore.  The  whole  routine  seems  to  back 
up  the  stories  you've  heard  about  young 
La  Rosa's  prodigious  eating  capacity  .  .  . 
surprising,  because  his  figure  is  trim,  like 
that  of  a  boxer's.  Does  he  always  devour 
food  on  this  Paul  Bunyan  scale? 

"I  pack  it  away,"  he  answers.  "Six  eggs 
for  breakfast,  with  all  the  trimmings  of  a 
normal  meal."  After  a  thoughtful  moment, 
he  adds,  "I've  had  occasion  to  dine  at 
some  of  the  best  places  in  the  country — 
places  with  real  class,  where  they  serve 
food  that's  out  of  this  world.  Want  to  know 
something?  The  place  where  I  can  enjoy 
food  most  is  right  at  home  in  Mount  Ver- 
non." Julie's  eyes  roll  up  as  he  murmurs, 
"Does  my  Mom  make  a  manicotti!  Abso- 
lutely terrific!  You'd  flip!"  He  pauses,  then 
says,  "But  there's  another  reason  why  I 
enjoy  dining  at  home." 

Julie  quickly  reaches  forward,  takes  hold 
of  the  little  basket  that  holds  slices  of 
bread  and  various  rolls.  He  selects  a  hard 
roll — tears  it  in  half. 

"See  that?  I  can  do  that  at  home — nat- 
urally, without  any  inhibitions,  without 
causing  any  eyebrows  to  go  up.  It  isn't 
'class,'  of  course,  but  it's  real.  I'll  bet  there 
isn't  a  guy  in  this  whole  wide  world  who 
has  less  'class'  than  my  father.  But  Dad, 
he's  the  greatest;  the  livin'  greatest  is 
that  man!" 

Has  this  question  of  "class"  been,  openly 
or  secretly,  any  sort  of  problem  for  Julie? 
He  answers  in  his  own  way. 

"Let's  face  it.  This  new  chapter  in  my 
life  has  created  another  world,  so  to  speak. 
You  don't  zoom  to  the  so-called  celebrity 
bracket,  the  way  I  did,  without  encounter- 
ing problems  every  now  and  then.  I  have 
absolutely  no  wish  to  forget  the  world 
I  come  from — to  forget  that  I'm  me,  Brook- 
lyn-born Julius  La  Rosa — to  forget  that 
my  folks  struggled  and  scrounged  so  that 
their  kids  could  be  decently  clothed  and 
educated.  Dad  was  just  a  radio  repair- 
man— the  best,  God  bless  him.  Mother 
worked  in  a  clothing  factory.  Plain  people. 
But  the  livin'  best!" 

Julie  fumbles  for  a  cigarette,  lights  up, 
inhales  deeply,  and  exhales  a  thin  jet  of 
smoke,  his  expression  thoughtful. 

"It  happens  to  be  in  my  nature  to  like 
people  for  what  they  are,"  he  continues. 
"AU  I  ask  is  that  people  have  the  same  at- 
titude toward  me.  I've  been  terrifically 
lucky  on  that  score.  The  overwhelming 
majority  of  folks  I've  met,  up  and  down 
the  country,  have  had  that  kind  of  attitude 
with  me." 

Coffee  is  brought  to  the  table — American 
style,  as  per  your  request,  and  cafe  es- 
presso for  JuUe. 

"The  demands  are  terrific,"  he  says. 
"Every  day,  new  faces,  new  situations. 
You  find  yourself  moving  in  an  orbit  that's 
removed  from  the  old  way  of  life.  The 
simple,  unaffected  way  that  belongs  to  my 
folks  and  my  old  neighborhood  bunch.  A 
guy's  got  to  conform  to  the  niceties — got 
to  learn  what  they  call  the  'gracious'  way 
of  doing  things.  Don't  misunderstand  me. 
I'm  all  for  it.  It's  right,  correct.  Only — well, 
there  have  been  occasions  when  I've  been 
made  to  feel  just  a  little  too  aware  of  these 
things.  As  if  placing  my  knife  and  fork 
dowTi,  just  so,  was  the  final  criterion  for 
judging  my  worth." 

Sitting  opposite  Julie  La  Rosa,  you've 
had  as  good  an  opportunity  as  anyone  to 
judge  some  of  these  superficial  aspects — 
what  he  calls  "class."  If  table  manners  are 
any  criterion,  his  self-doubt  appears  to  be 
completely  unwarranted. 


The  talk  gets  back  to  books.  How  come 
this  seemingly  all-out  interest  in  heavy- 
weights like  Churchill  and  Toynbee?  Why 
not  read  for  relaxation? 

'"Oh,  but  I  like  to  read  a  good  novel,"  he 
says.  "But  look— in  my  lifetime  there's 
been  an  awful  lot  of  history  happening. 
I  didn't  participate  in  any  of  it — the  De- 
pression, a  devastating  World  War.  The 
most  momentous  years  of  our  time — and 
all  I  did  was  hear  about  it,  usually  from 
pretty  biased  sources  of  information.  I'm 
a  big  boy  now.  I  think  I  can  evaluate  and 
form  my  own  conclusions  if  I  read  a  lot — 
history,  psychology,  books  on  philosophy, 
books  on  religious  thought." 

Then,  with  a  wry  look  and  a  shake  of 
his  head,  he  adds,  "Dig  the  switch.  I  want 
to  attend  college.  I  can  afford  it.  I'm  yoiing. 
But  I  haven't  got  the  time." 

Small  wonder  he  hasn't  the  time  for  Ivy 
League  learning.  Night-club  bookings.  A 
fifteen  -minute,  Monday- Wednesday -Fri- 
day network  TV  show  (the  program  slot 
established  by  his  idol.  Perry  Como) .  An- 
other half-hour  Saturday  night  show 
newly  custom -tailored  for  him.  Recording 
dates.  Important  things  cooking  this  fall 
for  the  1955-1956  season. 

The  outward  aspect  of  present-day  Julie 
La  Rosa  has  all  the  look,  all  the  trappings 
of  the  busy,  big-time  star — which,  of 
course,  is  actually  his  status.  All  the  fran- 
tic schedule-making.  All  the  commitment- 
filling.  All  the  super-charged  routine  that 
comes  with  having  "arrived." 

Nevertheless,  he  is  the  last  one  to  for- 
get the  special  circumstances  leading  to 
this  arrival  at  star-status.  He  knows  his 
emergence  as  a  top-billing  personality 
has  been  unique;  he  acknowledges  that 
fact;  and  he  is  willing  to  comment  on  it. 

"To  a  certain  extent,  I  feel  it's  been  a 
negative  career,  so  far,"  he  says.  "By  that  I 
meam,  I've  just  about  passed  the  stage 
where  people  would  come  over  to  me,  say 
nice  things  about  my  work,  but  seem  to 
imply  that  I've  had  terrific  luck.  None  of 
them  may  have  really  meant  anything  like 
that,  but — let's  face  it — I've  had  my  mo- 
ments of  doubt  about  myself.  This  is 
the  kind  of  thing  a  guy  has  to  rebel  against. 
It's  the  kind  of  thing  that  calls  for  a  lot 
of  faith  in  one's  self.  I've  used  a  lot  of 
energy  simply  trying  to  demonstrate  to 
myself  and  to  my  audience,  that  I  have 
something  more  than  the  headlines,  the 
publicity,  the  luck.  At  this  point  the  head- 
lines have  long  since  died  down,  and  now 
my  answer  is  the  crowds  that  come  out 
when  I  play  return  engagements.  I  know 
they're  paying  to  see  Julius  La  Rosa,  the 
performer." 

It's   proved   to   be   a   rewarding,   interest- 
filled  luncheon.    After  you  leave  the  Epi- 
cure, you  walk   back  to  Julie's  office  for 
the  express  purpose  of  finishing  something 
you   started   to   read — that   framed,   hand- 
lettered,     anonymous     quotation     he     has 
hanging  on  the  wall. 
The  full  quotation  reads  like  this: 
"It  is  not  the  critic  who   counts;   not 
the  man  who  points  out  how  the  strong 
man  stimibled   or  where  the   doer  of 
deeds   could   have   done   them   better; 
the  credit  belongs  to  the  man  who  is 
in  the  arena;  whose  face  is  marred  by 
dust  and  sweat  and  blood;  who  strives 
valiantly;   who   errs   and   comes   short 
and  short  again;   because  there  is  no 
effort  without  error  and  shortcoming; 
who  does  actually  try  to  do  the  deed; 
who  knows  the  great  enthusiasm,  the 
great    devotion,    spends    himself    in    a 
worthy  cause;  who  at  best  knows  in 
the  end  the  triumph  of  high  achieve- 
ment,   and    who    at    the    worst,    if   he 
fails,  at  least  fails  while  daring  greatly, 
so  that  his  place  shall  never  be  with 
those  cold  and  timid  souls  who  know 
neither  victory   nor  defeat." 


WOMEN 

GO  PLACES 

WITH 

Good 
Manners 


Are  you  shy  .  ,  .  timid  .  .  .  afraid  to  meet 
and  talk  with  people?  If  so,  here's  good 
news  for  you!  For  Elsa  Maxwell,  the  fa- 
mous hostess  to  world  celebrities,  has 
written  a  book  packed  solid  with  ways  to 
develop  poise  and  self-confidence. 

This  wonderful  book  entitled,  Elsa  Max- 
well's Etiquette  Book  contains  the  an- 
swers to  all  your  everyday  social 
problems.  By  following  the  suggestions 
given  in  this  book  you  know  exactly  how 
to  conduct  yourself  on  every  occasion. 
Once  you  are  completely  familiar  with 
the  rules  of  good  manners  you  immedi- 
ately lose  your  shyness — and  you  be- 
come your  true,  radiant  self. 

Win  New  Respect 

Win  new  esteem  and  respect  from  your 
friends — men  and  women  alike.  Read 
one  chapter  in  this  helpful  book  in  your 
spare  time,  and  in  a  very  short  period 
you  will  find  yourself  with  more  self- 
confidence  than  you  ever  dreamed  you 
would  have.  You  will  experience  the 
wonderful  feeling  of  being  looked  up  to 
and  admired. 

Good  manners  are  one  of  the  greatest  per- 
sonal assets  you  can  possess.  Good  jobs, 
new  friends,  romance,  and  the  chance  to 
influence  people  can  be  won  with  good 
manners.  Ladies  and  gentlemen  are  al- 
ways welcome  .  .  .  anywhere.  And  the 
most  encouraging  thing  about  good  man- 
ners is  that  anyone  can  possess  them. 

Only  $1.00 

The  price  of  this 
book  that  puts  you 
at  ease  no  matter 
where  you  are — 
Eind  opens  the  door 
to  achievement 
and  success — costs 
only  $1.00.  And  we 
pay  the  postage! 
Take  advantage  of 
this  truly  remark- 
able bargain.  Mail 
coupon  below  for 
your  book  —  TO- 
DAY! 


BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE,  INC.,  Dept.  RM-955 
205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  ELSA  MAX- 
WELL'S   ETIQUETTE    BOOK.    I    enclose 
;  $1.00 

NAME 

Please  Print 

STREET 

CITY STATE 


93 


All  quiet  on  the 

teething  front... 

This  peaceful  baby  has  just  won 

another  battle  with  teething  pains! 

Thanks  to  medically-formulated 

NUM-ZIT  Teething  Lotion,  the 

pain  of  sore,  tender  gums  is  under 

control.  NUM-ZIT  is  quick,  safe, 

effective.  Recommended  by 

many  baby  care  authorities. 

At  all  drug  counters 


NUM-ZIT 

TEETHING    LOTION 


Another  fine  PUREPAC  product 


Tiny  BURNS 


MAY  LEAVE 


lifetime  Scars 


i 


Apply  Fast  4'Way 
All  Around  Help 

Soothing,  cooling  OIL-0-SOL 
for  minor  bums.  Helps:  ease 
pain;  fight  infection;  prevent 
blisters:  speed  healing.  At 
your  druggist     MOSSO'S 

OIL*0*SOL 


U£ —  YOURS 

On  Just 
50  Boxes  of 


I  HLL''bLOW  KODACHROME 


Mewradiant  color  creations  sell  on  Bight,  pay  yon  $1.05 
per  box!  TallCaTdB.21&25-Gard  (lAssts.,  Name-In- 
Red  Parchment  Cards  at  3c  each,  ReliKioas  Koda- 
chromes.  175  fast-sellers.   Profits  to  100% ,  plus  $10-$50 
in  Bonos  Gif  tsl     Assortments  on  approval.    Imprints 
Free.  Act  fast— get  51.00  Gift  FREE.  Write  TODAYI   _ 

CREATIVE  CARDS. 4401  Cermak  Rd.,  Dept.  87-B,  Chtcaeo23,  Illinois 

LEARN  AT  HOME 

•  to  be  a  Nurse's  Aide 

•  Practical  Nurse 
'    •  or  infant  Nurse 

Prepare  in  spare  time  for  a  fascinating,  higii-pay  career 
Thousands  of  men  and  women,  18-60,  are  graduates  of 
this  physician-endorsed  course.  High  school  not  required. 
Easy  payments;  earn  as  you  learn.  Trial  plan.  56th  year. 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF  NURSING 
Dept.  29,  25  East  Jajikson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,  III. 
Please  send  me  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Vame. . 

Vitv State Age 


Want  to  Get  Rid  Of 
or  Discolored  Skin,, 
Freckles,  Skin 


94 


Spots?] 


Famous  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

JuBt  follow  the  amazing  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  NIGHT  PLAN  to  a  whiter,  softer, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  ig  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time- tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now! 
■r^  MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

-^  At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


Lightens  dark 
shin  and  uely 
spots  almost 
overnlgtit. 


Lois  Hunt's  Lullaby 


{Continued  from  page  68) 
"One  of  the  reasons — in  fact,  the  reason 
I  was  fearful  about  having  a  baby  when 
we  were  first  married — is  that  I  knew  so 
many  girls  who  were  just  so  miserable 
during  pregnancy  that  it  scared  me.  And 
I  couldn't  help  wondering  what  giving  up 
nine  months  would  do  to  my  career — 
precarious  as  a  singing  career,  or  any 
career  in  the  arts,  always  is." 

Lois's  dentist-father.  Dr.  Mathew  Mar- 
cus, is  at  least  partially  responsible,  Lois 
admits,  for  her  feeling  that  a  singing  career 
is  not  exactly  a  guarantee  of  solvency. 
Born  in  York,  Pennsylvania,  Lois  was 
graduated  as  a  dental  hygienist  from  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania.  But,  although 
it  was  understood  that  dental  hygiene  was 
to  be  her  life  work,  she  had  also  been 
taking  singing  lessons  ever  since  high 
school  days,  when  a  perceptive  music 
teacher  had  singled  her  out  from  the 
Philadelphia  High  Glee  Club  to  do  a  solo 
bit  in  a  school  musical-comedy  production. 
Later,  while  pursuing  her  study  of  other 
people's  mouths,  at  the  U.  of  P.,  Lois  was 
simultaneously  mastering  the  use  of  her 
own  vocal  equipment  along  more  esthetic 
lines,  under  the  guidance  of  Madame 
Marian  Freschl,  the  famed  Hungarian 
teacher,  then  head  of  the  voice  department 
of  the  Curtis  Institute  of  Music.  It  was 
Madame  Freschl — who  also  perceived  the 
operatic  diva  in  the  dental  hygienist — who 
precipitated  a  showdown  in  her  young 
pupil's  life  by  railroading  her  into  a  full- 
fledged  recital  debut  in  Philadelphia.  The 
resultant  critical  acclaim  brought  a  new 
headliner  into  the  musical  field. 

Ihis  was  in  1946.  For  a  short  while,  Lois 
remained  in  Philadelphia,  appearing  regu- 
larly as  soloist  with  Norman  Black's  or- 
chestra over  Station  WFIL,  singing  in  local 
churches  and  synagogues,  and  limiting  her 
concert  work  to  the  Philadelphia  circuit. 

Then,  one  memorable  night,  Philadel- 
phia Opera  Company  contralto  Gabrielle 
Hunt  introduced  lyric  soprano  Lois  Marcus 
to  her  six-foot-tall,  dark  and  handsome 
brother,  Morton  Hunt  .  .  .  and,  after  a  brief 
and  breathless  whirlwind  courtship,  the 
young  lovers-at-first-sight  were  married 
and  went  off  to  New  York,  where  Morton 
worked  for  Look  Magazine  .  .  .  and  where 
Lois  found  herself  in  the  thick  of  a  com- 
petitive melee,  pitted  against  thousands  of 
hopeful  young  singers  from  all  parts  of 
the  country — "And  almost  all  of  them,  it 
seemed,"  Lois  laughs,  "also  lyric  sopranos!" 

She  finally — and  "finally,"  she  says,  is 
the  word! — landed  a  job  singing  the  title 
role  of  Flotow's  "Martha"  for  a  stream- 
lined production  of  that  opera  sent  out  on 
a  Midwest  tour.  Lois  was  so  successful 
that  she  was  next  engaged  for  the  famed 
Summer  Opera  Festival  in  Central  City, 
Colorado,  where  she  sang  Marzelline  in 
Beethoven's  "Fidelio." 

In  the  fall  of  1948,  Lois — along  with  nine 
hundred  other  young  hopefuls — sang  for 
the  officials  of  the  Metropolitan  Opera  Au- 
ditions Of  The  Air  and  was  one  of  the 
twenty-six  finally  selected  to  appear  on 
the  actual  broadcast  series.  She  sang  her 
first  radio  audition.  Then  waited,  sat  by 
the  telephone  for  heart-in-mouth  months, 
waiting  for  the  call  to  sing  in  the  finals. 
.  .  .  The  call  came.  She  sang  in  the  finals. 
Another  suspenseful  week  .  .  .  and  then 
came  the  news  that  she'd  won  the  coveted 
Met  contract,  along  with  a  $1,000  scholar- 
ship. Lois  had  come  into  her  heritage. 

She  has  made  the  most  of  it.  Now,  mil- 
lions of  radio  listeners  and  televiewers, 
from  coast  to  coast,  know  Lois  Hunt  as  a 
regular  singing  star  of  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis 
radio  and  TV  shows,  as  well  as  a  frequent 


guest  artist  on  The  Voice  Of  Firestone, 
Cavalcade  Of  Stars,  Omnibus,  and  other 
important  programs.  Subscribers  to  the 
Metropolitan  have  applauded  her  in  nearly 
a  dozen  leading  soprano  roles  since  her 
debut  in  1949.  Her  name  graces  the  RCA 
Victor,  Columbia  and  Mercury  labels  in 
recordings  which  range  from  Handel's 
"Faithful  Shepherd"  to  a  potpourri  of  Sig- 
mund  Romberg  favorites.  On  Broadway 
and  in  summer  operetta  centers  from 
Hyannis,  Massachusetts,  to  Houston,  Texas, 
she  has  sung  the  soprano  leads  in  "IThe 
Great  Waltz,"  "The  Merry  Widow,"  "Brig- 
adoon,"  "Show  Boat,"  and  other  hit  musi- 
cals. For  Grand  Opera  Festivals  in  Central 
City,  San  Antonio  and  Puerto  Rico,  and 
during  the  regular  opera  seasons  in  New 
Orleans,  Philadelphia,  Atlanta,  and  Pitts- 
burgh, she  has  turned  in  stunning  perform- 
ances in  the  title  role  of  "La  Traviata,"  as 
Musetta  in  "La  Boheme,"  Adele  in  "Die 
Fledermaus,"  and  other  lyric  heroines. 
With  the  New  York  Philharmonic  and  the 
Chicago  Symphony,  she  has  soloed  before 
hundreds  of  thousands  in  the  great  out- 
door concert  series  at  Lewisohn  Stadium 
and  Grant  Park. 

The  virtuosity  of  songstress  Hunt  is 
seemingly  limitless.  During  her  apjJear- 
ances  on  radio  and  TV,  she  alternates,  with 
amazing  versatility,  between  classic  arias 
by  Verdi  and  Puccini  and  torch  songs  like 
"St.  Louis  Blues,"  sentimental  ballads  like 
"Bless  This  House"  and  hot  jump  tunes 
like  "Papa  Loves  Mambo"  and  "Sh-boom." 
When  long-hair  fans  raise  an  eyebrow  fol- 
lowing her  excursions  into  the  repertoire 
of  the  groaners  and  moaners,  Lois  is  care- 
ful to  explain  that  she  actually  makes  no 
compromise  with  her  art. 

"When  I  do  opera,  I  do  it  straight,"  she 
says,  "without  any  horsing  aroimd.  And, 
when  I  do  rhythm  and  blues,  I  try  to  do 
that  within  its  own  framework,  too.  While 
different  interpretive  styles  are  called  for, 
the  fundamentals  of  good  singing  apply  in 
either  case." 

The  International  Lois  Hunt  Fan  Club 
has  a  membership  of  nearly  1,000  young- 
sters in  23  cities.  All  this,  and  more  be- 
sides. Yet  Lois's  dad  still  insists  that  his 
daughter  send  him  a  dollar  each  year  to 
renew  her  Pennsylvania  State  License  as 
a  dental  hygienist  and  that  she  put  in  at 
least  fifteen  hours  each  year  painting  gums 
and  polishing  molars  in  his  Philadelphia 
office,  to  "keep  in  practice"! 

"Dad  still  isn't  at  all  sure  that  'this  sing- 
ing nonsense  will  ever  amount  to  any- 
ting,' "  Lois  laughs,  "and  wants  to  make 
sure  that  I'll  have  'a  reliable  source  of 
income,'  to  fall  back  on,  if  need  be.  It  was 
undoubtedly  this  emphasis  on  'a  reliable 
source  of  income'  which  increased  my  fear 
of  any  interference  with — or  interruption — 
of  'this  singing  nonsense.'  But  I  need  not 
have  worried,  for  I  was  not  one  of  the 
'ailing'  girls! 

"I  did  postpone  (until  the  fall)  my  debut 
at  the  City  Center  with  the  New  York 
City  Opera  Company,  originally  scheduled 
for  last  spring.  I  also  stopped  the  horse- 
back riding  Mort  and  I  enjoy  so  much  on 
the  bridle  paths  of  Central  Park,  which 
our  apartment  windows  overlook.  .  .  . 
Otherwise,  I  worked  and  played  and  slept 
and  ate  as  I've  always  done,  if  not — espe- 
cially in  the  food  department — more  so!  I 
dreamed  of  peanut  butter  and  jelly  sand- 
wiches! But  my  pre-natal  craving  was  not, 
alas,  for  some  one  special,  out-of-season 
delicacy,  but  for  food,  just  for  food!  I 
dieted  constantly — and,  I  thought,  quite 
subtly — using  saccharin  instead  of  sugar, 
whole  wheat  instead  of  white  bread  .  .  . 
then  it  was  around  the  comer,  for  an  ice- 
cream soda! 


"I  went  to  the  doctor  regularly,  as  an 
expectant  mother  should.  I  went  to  the 
dentist  regularly,  need  I  say!  Although  I 
was  not  in  need  of  either,  the  nine  healthy 
months  through,  as  it  developed.  I  never 
felt  better  in  my  life.  Not  an  ache  or 
a  pain  or  even  a  twinge  of  that  bugaboo 
'morning  sickness,'  Everyone  told  me  I 
never  looked  better  in  my  life. 

"One  reason  for  my  looking  as  fit  as  1 
did,  during  my  pregnancy,  is  that  I  paid 
more  attention  to  grooming  than  I  ever 
did  before.  And  to  every  detail.  To  my 
hair  and  my  nails,  to  breathing  properly — 
which  I  learned  from  being  a  singer — and 
to  my  posture.  The  way  you  look  during 
pregnsincy  is  largely,  in  my  opinion,  a 
matter  of  posture.  Slump  into  yourself 
and  you  look  slumped.  Stand  straight  and 
try — as  I  did — to  keep  the  bosom  out  in 
front  of  the  stomach,  and  you'll  even  over- 
come that  look  of  The  Month  Before! 

"Nor  did  I  wear  maternity  clothes  until 
just  about  The  Month  Before.  I  wore  the 
same  kind  of  dresses  I  always  wear,  but 
larger  sizes,  usually  with  big  full  skirts 
and  crinohnes — and  faced  front!  Robert  Q. 
kept  telling  me  that  my  clothes  were  de- 
signed 'by  Omar,  the  Tentmaker!'  but  I 
maintain — and  my  husband  agrees — that 
I  proved  the  'D'  silhouette  can  be  as  chic 
as  Dior's  'H'  and  'A'  silhouettes. 

"When,  toward  the  end,  I  did  start  to 
wear  maternity  clothes — almost  exclusive- 
ly one-piece  dresses,  Uke  brunch  coats — 
I  borrowed  most  of  them. 

"Where  the  layette  was  concerned,  I  also 
relied  largely  on  my  friends — who,  know- 
ing how  impractical  I  am,  would  surely 
take  care  of  shirts  and  gowns  and  receiv- 
ing blankets  and  such!  After  all,  Robert 
Q.  had  promised  the  dozen  'hand-knit 
diapers'  and  had  added  that,  if  a  boy,  he 
would  donate  a  totem  pole — from  his  large 
collection,  I  assumed — and/or  a  pair  of  his 
spectacles!  Now  that  we've  'produced'  the 
boy,  we're  waiting  for  Bob  to  fulfill  his 
half  of  the  bargain! 

"Mort  and  I  had  fun  shopping  for  nurs- 
ery furniture,  inspecting  canopied  cribs 
and  such,  but  we  ended  up  by  borrowing 
a  bassinette,  done  in  ruffled  yellow  or- 
gandy— which  settled  the  nursery  problem 
for  us,  because  the  linoleiam  was  green,  so 
everything  was  yellow  and  green  except 
the  walls,  which  are  a  very  pale  gray. 
The  drapery  fabric  is  a  charming  block 
print,  with  cartoon-like  characters,  toys 
and  animals  all  over  it.  A  very  original 
pattern,  it  inspired  us  with  the  original 
'do-it-yourself  idea  of  transferring  some 
of  the  designs  to  the  wall — which  we  did, 
and  it  was  a  lot  of  fun!  Drew  the  charac- 
ters on  a  large  sketch  pad,  blew  them  up, 
traced  them  on  the  wall,  then  painted  them 
exactly  the  same  colors  as  in  the  drapery 
material.  Having  never  done  anything  like 
this  before,  we  felt  a  new  talent  had  been 
added! 

"Casual  though  1  may  sound,"  Lois  adds, 
"about  the  layette  and  borrowing  the  bas- 
sinette and  all,  we  were  anything  hut 
casual  about  preparing  ourselves  to  be 
informed  and  capable  parents.  We  both 
took  the  coiirse  for  prospective  parents 
conducted  by  the  American  Red  Cross. 
Under  the  guidance  of  Miss  Elizabeth  J. 
Tiernan,  Registered  Nurse,  we  learned,  by 
practicing  on  doll  models,  how  to  bathe, 
how  to  diaper,  how  to  burp  our  live  baby 
when  it  came.  We  were  taught  how  to 
prepare  formulas  and  sterilize.  We  also 
learned  the  anatomy  of  pregnancy — what 
is  going  on,  during  the  period  of  preg- 
nancy, within  the  mother.  A  three -week 
course,  two-hoiu-  sessions,  two  nights  a 
week — I  wouldn't  have  missed  an  hour  of 
it.  It  gave  me  an  understanding  of  the 
processes  going  on  within  me.  And,  the 
more  knowledge  you  have,  the  less  appre- 
hensive you  are. 


"And,  if  we  are  not  prepared  to  cope 
with  each  unexpected  development  in  our 
infant's  behavior  and  growth,  it  won't  be 
because  we  didn't  all  but  commit  to  mem- 
ory Dr.  Benjamin  Spock's  Baby  and  Child 
Care.  We've  even  sent  to  Belgium  for  a 
French  edition  of  Dr.  Spock's  book  for 
our  wonderful  French  housekeeper,  Si- 
mone  Mascot,  who  came  to  us  from  France 
only   a  few  months   ago. 

"Planning  for  the  education  of  the  heir 
or  heiress  presumptive  is  another  pre- 
natal concern  of  parents  today.  With  long 
waiting  lists  for  the  better  schools  and 
colleges  making  it  necessary  to  put  in  one's 
bid  before  the  prospective  student  is  born, 
Mort — who  also  graduated  from  U.  of  P. 
and  from  Temple  University — and  I  spent 
hours  poring  over  school  and  college  cata- 
logues. My  only  reason  for  rather  hoping 
the  baby  would  be  a  boy  is  that  I  know  of 
more  good  schools  for  boys  than  for  girls! 

JN  or  did  we  have  any  preconceived 
ideas  of  what  our  son  should  do  or  be. 
We've  always  beer  a  very  close-knit 
family,  Mort  and  I,  aever  the  kind  of 
young-marrieds  who  lead  their  own  pri- 
vate lives  by  day,  get  together  for  cock- 
tails and  dinner  at  night.  Mort  always 
reads  the  first  drafts  of  his  articles  to  me — 
because  I  am,  he  tells  me  blandly,  'the 
average  female  reader!'  And,  whenever 
I'm  doing  something  new  or  special,  on  the 
stage  or  screen,  Mort  is  always  'in  the 
audience.'  Being  as  close-knit  as  we  have 
been,  we  talked  about  the  changes  the  baby 
will  make  in  our  Uves.  But  we  feel 
flexible  enough  now  to  have  our  Uves 
changed   and   not  feel   disrupted. 

"We  had  fun,  too — half  in  fun,  but 
wholly  in  earnest — trying  to  decide  on  a 
name  for  Miss  or  Master  Hunt!  We  pored 
through  dictionaries,  encyclopedias,  tele- 
phone directories,  opera  scores  and  opera 
programs,  not  to  mention  literature,  classic 
and  modern.  We  drew  lots  for  names, 
wrote  them  on  little  pieces  of  paper.  We 
quickly  eliminated,  I  may  say,  most  of  my 
operatic  roles  as  name  possibilities — Adele 
in  'Fledermaus,'  for  instance?  Uh-uh,  not 
Adele!  Musetta?  The  'No's'  had  it!  Mar- 
zelline?  Ouch!  Martha?  Well,  mmmm, 
possibly!  We  thought  rather  favorably  of 
Monica,  the  role  I  sang  in  Gian-Carlo 
Menotti's  'The  Medium' — and  very  favor- 
ably of  Norina,  the  role  I  was  learning  in 
Donizetti's  'Don  Pasquale,'  when  I  became 
pregnant.  Boys'  names,  like  boys'  schools, 
came  more  easily  than  girls'.  We  liked 
John  and  Mark,  but  decided  that  a  rather 
long  name — of  at  least  two  syllables — 
would  go  better  with  the  one-syllable  name 
of  Hunt.  If  a  boy,  we  finally  agreed,  we 
would  call  him  Christopher.  But,  by  early 
in  the  morning  of  July  11,  1955,  when  the 
great  moment  arrived — and  it  was  a  boy! — 
we  had  changed  our  minds  again  and 
named  him  Jeffrey  Marcus  Hunt. 

"Fun,"  Lois  says,  a  glow  in  her  eyes, 
"all  the  nine  months  through!  I  found 
myself  very  much  enjoying  being  at  home, 
straightening  out  bureau  drawers,  putting 
ribbons  and  bows  in  unnecessary  but  cute 
places — things  like  that,  feminine  things, 
because  I  felt  very  feminine. 

"Judging  from  my  experience,  I  can 
honestly  say  that  to  regard  pregnancy  as 
an  illness,  or  a  period  of  maladjustment — 
or  even  as  the  'delicate  condition'  referred 
to  by  the  more  genteel  novelists — is  as 
dated  as  the  old  wives'  tales  which  would 
scare  the  life  out  of  you  if  you  accepted 
them.  No  kind  of  sense  in  being  riddled 
by  the  fears  and  superstitions  of  another 
generation.    I  certainly  wasn't. 

"There  has  been  no  shadow  over  my 
happiness,  none  at  all  over  my  health — 
real  or  imaginary.  Just  wonder  .  .  .  the 
little  bit  of  wonder  every  woman  feels 
during  those  nine  exciting  months." 


FREE! 


It's  as  exciting 
as  a  fashion 
magazinel 

Wlierever  you 
live  . . .  you  can 
do  all  your 
shopping  from 
its  pages 


It  pictures  and  tells  all  about 
the  TAlL-sized  10  to  20  fashions 
for  the  coming  season... Coats, 
suits,  dresses  for  every  occa- 
sion, blouses,  sweaters,  jackets, 
skirl,  slacks,  robes,  slips, 
gowns,  girdles,  bras,  stockings, 
shoes  ...  all  TALL-sized  to  fit 
you  long-stemmed  American 
Beauties  .  .  .  shoulders,  sleeves, 
waistlines,  hemlines  JUST 
RIGHT  .  .  .  Everything  is  priced 
like  fashions  in  regular  sizesi 

Mail  Coupon  for  your  Free  Style  Boot  Today 

If  you  are  not  on  _ 

our    mallinK     list       ■RRI! 
send  coupon  below.        ^" 


Over  Five-Seven  Sliopt.  Oept. T-1t 
465  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Please  tend  me  "Over  Five-SeVtn  Shop"  Style  Book. 


Post  Office State. 


DANCING  SHOES  — SUPPLIES 

Toe  $5.95,  Pads  &  Ribbons  $1.00;  Ballet 
$3.29,  Tap  Shoes  With  Toe  Taps,  To  Size  3, 
$4.95,  Larger  $5.45;  Acrobatic  $1,39,  Crepe 
Sole  $1.95.  Send  Shoe  Size  and  Foot  Outline. 
Leotards  $3.85.  Sheer  or  Mesh  Opera  Hose 
$4.95,  Mesh  Tights  $7.45.  Hula  Skirts  $3.25. 
Send  Check  or  Money  Order.  No  C.O.D.'s  Please. 

BATON — DRUM    CORPS    SUPPLIES 

SKATING    SKIRTS— Roller    or    Ice 

Complete    Catalog    1 5c    (applied    to    purchaflO 

QUINCON   DANCE  SUPPLIES 

7    FOSTER   ST..    Dept.    R,    QUINCY   69,    MASS. 


"S^aAkr&fQA^ 

PERMANENT  DARKENER 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 

SWIMPROOF!  One  application  lasts 
4  to  5  weeks!  Our  22nd  year. 


$1.00  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores 

Send  TODAY 
for  TRIAL  SIZE! 


"DARK-EVES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-95 
3319  v/.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,'  III. 

I  enclose  25«  (coin  or  stomps— lax  included)  for  TRIAL  SIZE 
PACKAGE  of  "Dork-Eyes"  with  direcljons. 

check  shade:  Q  Black  G  Brown 


\V 


Nam 


I    Address. 
llTown 


95 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
KBfG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

^PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL   NEEDED.    No  age   limit. 


FOR    FREE   LESSON    and 
FULL   INFORMATION 


I  Post  Graduate  Hospital 

j  School  of  Nursing 

I  9D95  Auditorium  BIdg. 

I  Chicago  5,  Illinois 


Name. 


Address . 


City State. 


96 


For  Quick  Relief 
Ask  your  Druggist  for 


DENrS 


TOOTH  GUM 
TOOIH  DROPS 
POULTICE 


SELL  DRESSES 


NEW  YORK 


/A  dress  shop  In  your  bomel  Established  New 
York  firm  desires  ambitious  women  to  sell 
dresses,  suits,  featuring  the  newest  New  York  look.  Ex- 
perience unnecessary.  Good  commissions.  Free  dresses  to 
wear  as  bonus.  No  Investment.  Write  for  sample  book. 
BEUECRAFT  FASHIONS,  111  Eighth  Ave.,   Depl.  TS-9,  N.  Y. 


Personal  Photo  Christmas 
Cards,  Including  enve- 
lopes, from  your  own 
negative. 

FREE  SAMPLE... 
snapshot  negative  for  free 
sample  Deluxe  Yulecard.  Include  6^ 
^^^  stamps  for  handling.  Negative  returned 
^^^'  with  sample.  No  obligation.  Satisfaction 
guaranteed.  Write  today  YULECARDS.*  Dept.  3, 
Quincy  69,  Mass.     -Div.  Mail  NSave   -t.m.  Reg. 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

If  you  did  not  or  cannot  finish  high  school,  here  is 
your  opportunity.  Study  in  spare  time  at  home.  Go 
as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Course 
equivalent  to  residential  school — prepares  for  college 
exams.  Standard  texts  supplied.  Credit  for  subjects 
already  completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Di- 
ploma awarded.  Be  a  High  School  graduate.  Start 
studies  now.  Free  Bulletin.  Send  coupon. 

I  AMERICAN  SCHOOL.  Dept.H-653 

I  Drexel  at  58th  St.,  Chicago  37,  III. 

I  Without  obligation,  please  send  FREE  descriptive 

I  booklet. 

I  Name ■ 

'    Address 

.      CaBadian  Residents:   Complete  Ganadiao  Coarse  Available. 
■       Write  American  School,  1610  Slierbrooke  St.  West.  Montreal. 


'""^^0"!^  PS  OR  IAS  IS 


(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE! 


^DeRmoiL 


SEE    FOR    YOURSELF 

no  matter  how  long  you 

have  sullered.  Write  tor 

FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 

an/1    DERMOIL    with 

actual  "belore — after" 

.  photo  record  ot  results. 

Oon*t  be  embarrassed 

with  Psoriasis,  tlie  ugly, 

scaly  sltin  disease.   Try 

non- staining    DERIVIOIL. 

Amazing  results  reported 

for  over  22  yearsi  Many 

grateful    users   report   the ' 

scaly  red  patclies  on  body  ^ 

or  sctflp  Kfaduafly  disappeared  and  they" 

again  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  smooth  clear  ekin.  DERMOIL 

formula  Is  used    by   many  doctors.    Must  give   definite 

benefit  or  your  money  back.  Make  our  famous  "One  .Spot 

Test"!  .SEND    100  for  trial  bottle.   DERMOIL  sold  at 

Liggett  and  Walgreen  and  other  leading   Drug  Stores. 

Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.  1104 

Box    3925    Strattimaor     Station,     Detroit    21,     Micli. 


New^  PatteriiiS 
for  You 


4806 — The  flattery  of  the  double  diagonal 
does  wonders  to  sleek  and  slim  the  shorter, 
fuller  figure.  Half  Sizes  141/2-241/2-  Size  I6I/2 
takes  3%  yards  39-inch  fabric;  14  yard  con- 
trast.   35^ 

4796 — Make  daughter  this  3-piece  outfit  to 
mix  and  match.  Child's  Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8,  10. 
Size  6  blouse,  1  yard  35-inch  fabric;  skirt, 
1%  yards;  weskit,  %  yard.    35^; 


4806 

SIZES 
UV2-2AV2 


4724— Stunning  two-piece  fashion — with 
long  lines  that  curve  from  bodice  to  hips, 
gentle  flare  of  the  skirt.  Misses'  Sizes  10-18. 
Size   16  takes  378   yards  39-inch  fabric.  i's4 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to: 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Department,  P.  O.  Box 
137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  N.  Y.  Add 
five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing. 


SIZES 
10—18 


Daytime  Diary 


{Continued  from  page  21) 


THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  Sybil  Overton's 
intricate  web  tangles  about  her  own  feet 
as  too  many  people  get  too  close  to  the 
lie  with  whidi  she  has  apparently  de- 
stroyed Jim's  marriage  by  framing  Joce- 
lyn.  But  Jocelyn  herself  may  have  become 
her  own  worst  enemy,  for  not  even  the 
hope  of  enlisting  Armand  Monet  on  her 
side  is  strong  enough  to  help  her  keep  up 
the  pretense  of  romantic  interest  in  him 
which  is  so  repugnant  to  her.  CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELE\  TREXT 

Gil  Whitney's  scheming  wife  Cynthia  has 
led  him  to  hope  that  divorce  will  soon  free 
him  to  marry  designer  Helen  Trent,  whom 
he  has  always  loved.  But  Cynthia  has  other 
plans  at  the  back  of  her  mind,  plans  that 
may  be  helped  by  sleek  Fay  Granville, 
Gil's  new  secretary.  Meanwhile,  wealthy 
Brett  Chapman  continues  his  pursuit  of 
Helen  despite  her  lack  of  encouragement. 
Will  she  be  forced  to  turn  to  him  in  the 
end?   CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH  FOR  TOMORROW  Still 
driven  by  frustrated  hatred  of  Joanne,  her 
former  daughter-in-law,  Irene  Barron 
feels  that  at  last  she  can  revenge  herself 
in  a  particularly  despicable  way  on  her 
husband,  who  is  friendly  with  Joanne.  But 
when  she  seeks  to  involve  Melanie  Pritch- 
ard,  has  she  bitten  off  more  than  she  can 
chew?  As  Stu  Bergman  and  his  wife  sus- 
pect, Melanie  is  not  quite  the  innocent 
Southern    flower    she    appears.    CBS-TV. 

SECOND  HVSBA\D  Diane's  marriage 
to  Wayne  Lockwood  is  endangered  by  the 
antagonism  of  her  own  children — an  an- 
tagonism cleverly  encouraged  by  Wayne's 
family,  who  have  never  approved  of  Diane. 
To  add  to  Diane's  insecurity,  Wayne's  part- 
ner, Kenneth  Stevens,  has  fallen  in  love 
with  her,  and  the  children  seem  much 
more  inclined  to  tiuTi  to  him  than  to  their 
new  stepfather.  Can  a  marriage  survive 
so  many  hostile  forces?   CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECOND  MRS.  BIRTOX  Mother 
Burton's  activities  continue  to  make  things 
hard  for  her  children  as  Stan,  trying  to 
run  the  paper  by  himself,  continually 
finds  her  money  or  influence  getting  in  his 
way.  And  Marcia,  too,  would  be  coming, 
under  Mother's  influence  if  her  husband. 
Lew  Archer,  had  a  weaker  personality  or 
less  money  of  his  own.  Has  Buck  Halliday 
come  into  Mother  Burton's  life  to  stay — 
for  better  or  worse?  CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Driven  by  re- 
lentless hatred — hatred  that  amounts  to 
madness — Pa\iline  continues  to  pyramid 
evidence  that  Peter  Ames,  husband  of  laer 
dead  sister,  is  unfit  to  bring  up  his  own 
children.  Knowing  Pauline's  real  motive  is 
to  prevent  his  marriage  to  Jane  Edwards, 
Peter  struggles  desperately  to  reveal  the 
vindictive  jealousy  behind  her  accusations. 
But  Pauline  and  her  powerful  family  hold 
most  of  the  cards.  CBS-TV. 

STELLA  DALLAS  Stella's  desperate  ef- 
forts to  get  her  daughter  Laurel's  mar- 
riage back  on  a  soimd  footing  is  thwarted 
at  every  turn  by  Stanley  Warrick  and  his 
mother,  who  are  determined  to  break  it 
up  so  Laurel  can  marry  Stanley.  The  brief 
distraction  offered  by  Janice  Bennett 
comes  to  nothing,  and  Stella  is  frantic  as 
she  sees  Stanley  once  again  making  ad- 
vances to  Laurel — advances  which  are  not 
discouraged.    NBC    Radio. 


THIS  MS  XORA  DRAKE  As  a  nurse  in 
the  Mental  Hygiene  Clinic,  Nora  Drake  is 
no  stranger  to  mental  illness.  But  the  man 
who  claimed  guilt  for  the  murder  of  Ruth 
Shoemaker — the  man  who  begged  for  help 
and  then  disappeared  before  it  arrived — 
is  a  more  terrifying  problem  than  she  has 
ever  dealt  with  before.  Can  she  and  re- 
porter David  Brown  work  together  in  this 
strange  case?  Or  is  David  himself  in  some 
way  involved?  CBS  Radio. 

YALiAXT  LADY  With  the  apparent  re- 
covery of  Chris's  wife  Linda,  and  her 
return  to  a  semblance  of  normal  life, 
Helen  Emerson  finds  herself  in  a  strange 
and  compromising  position.  Her  love  for 
Chris  makes  it  impossible  to  keep  up  the 
fiction  of  being  a  family  friend,  which 
means  that  sooner  or  later  they  must  face 
giving  each  other  up  completely.  Will 
Margot  make  it  impossible  for  Helen  to 
turn  to  Bill  Fraser  for  comfort?  CBS-TV. 

WEXDY  WARREX  AXD  THE  XEWS 

The  return  of  her  Aunt  Dorrie's  girlhood 
friend  brings  an  unexpected  problem  for 
Wendy  in  her  capacity  as  a  small-town 
editor  with  the  town's  welfare  at  heart. 
For  Vergie's  husband.  Big  Jim,  turns  out 
to  be  a  ruthless  operator  with  political 
cind  financial  plans  that  Wendy  must  fight. 
Will  this  almost  amiable  battle  between 
friendly  enemies  turn  into  something 
much  nastier?  CBS  Radio. 

WHEX  A  GIRL  MARRIES  Joan  finds 
herself  in  an  awkward  position  as  she  dis- 
approves of  the  infatuation  of  her  old 
friend,  Phil  Stanley,  for  the  temperamental 
opera  star,  Clara  Bauer.  Distrusting  Clara, 
Joan  nevertheless  feels  reluctant  to  be 
honest  with  Phil  for  fear  she  will  be  mis- 
understood. Not  so  long  ago  she  herself 
seemed  to  be  the  girl  Phil  was  in  love 
with — even  though  her  happy  marriage 
naturally  kept  him  silent.  ABC  Radio 

THE  WOMAX  MX  MY  HOISE  Jessie 
Carter  often  thinks  that  being  mother — 
and  mother-in-law — to  an  increasing  fam- 
ily is  something  like  a  delicate  juggling 
trick.  She  must  balance  continuous  care 
and  supervision  with  the  appearance  of 
casualness,  and  never  allow  the  children 
to  think  that  they  are  not  running  their 
own  lives.  And  she  must  keep  her  hus- 
band's heavier  hand  from  showing  too 
plainly.  What  happens  when  she  slips  up? 
NBC  Radio. 

YOrXG  DR.  MALOXE  Tracey  Malone 
learns  that  a  young  stepmother  faces  one 
problem  after  another  in  dealing  with  a 
teen-age  stepdaughter,  even  though  she 
and  Jill  weather  each  crisis  as  it  comes 
along.  Will  her  past,  when  it  emerges,  be 
too  much  for  the  delicate  relationship? 
Meanwhile  Jerry  has  his  own  serious  prob- 
lems as  Ted  Mason's  plans  to  take  over 
the  Clinic  approach  fruition.  Will  Ted's 
wife  Marcia  turn  the  tables?  CBS  Radio. 

YOrXG  WIDDER  BROWX  When  Dr. 
Anthony  Loring's  marriage  took  him  once 
and  for  all  out  of  Ellen  Brown's  reach,  she 
turned  to  Michael  Forsythe  with  the  hope 
that  a  substitute  happiness  might  lie  in 
marriage  with  him.  But,  now  that  her  en- 
gagement to  Michael  is  broken,  Ellen  once 
again  finds  Anthony  in  her  thoughts — al- 
though they  are  colored  in  a  strange  way 
by  the  influence  of  the  artist,  Ivan  Mans- 
field,   and   his   view    of   life.   NBC    Radio. 


IF  you're 
STOUT 


SAVE  MONEY  on 
smai;t  dresses,  coats  in 
Sizes  38  to  60,  styled  to 
make  you  look  slimmer. 
All  at  really  LOW  prices. 

A  smart  collar  and  panel-effect 
add  slimming  lines  to  thia 
Woven  Check  Gingham  Coat 
Dress,  only  S3.98.  Others  S2.98 
up.  Coats  from  $12.98. 

Mail  Coupon  for  your  100-page  Style 
Book.  It's  FREE  and  postpaid! 


ii"*S 


ruant  <ndianapolis  u, 

iJ  INDIANA 


Please  mail  me  FREE  Style  Book  for  Stout  Women.   (4) 


f'osl  Vlficc  Stale 


Heed  mote  money? 


Show 


Here's  how  to  earn  money  fasl!  C  mieTMIIlS 
Simply  show  Iriends  brand  new  cCHR'^'"*      , 

SUM-SH«PEO  Christmas  Cards, -   -  » 

Also  personal  cards,  notes  and  wrappings,  gills  -over  Hi 
items.  They  sell  on  sight... you  make  big  profits.  Send  no 
money-but  WRITE  TODAY  lor  assortments  on  approval 
and  get  FREE  pen  with  key  chain  lor  prompt  action, 
CHAS.  C,  SCHWER  CO..  253  Elm  Sl.WeslfieM.  Mass. 


CAROSi 


^r, 


SHEETS,  TOASTERS, 
TOWELS,  MIXERS,etc. 
GIVEN  TO  YOU  FREE! 

Hundreds    of    famous,    na- 
tionally advertised  products  ■ 
to   choose    from — furniture, 
i'<j  aj^       tugs,  lamps,  slip  covers,  sil- 

'■^t  ^v       verware,    china,     draperies. 

'«  am       You  get  $50.00  —  $100.00 

and  more  in  merchandise 
just  by  being  Secretary  of  a 
Popular  Club  you  help  your 
friends  form.  It's  easy!  It's 
fun  !  Nothing  to  sell,  noth- 
ing to  buy.  Write  today. 

•"p^Jiar  Club  Plan,  Dept.  G-936,  Lynbrook,  N.  Y.  | 

'    Send  Big  FREE  260-Page  FULL-COLOR  Catalog  |  ' 

I   Name - -  |         g 

I   Address "  I 

Jcity.,;jjjj..^j^..^;^..;^..;^..,^j;--,;^-.;;^-,^tate^jj^ 


98 


HAVE  YOU  HEARD/ 

ABOUT   THE      I^ 

*CHARI«  HOUSE 
CLUB  PLAN? 


NOW  you  CAN  GET  NATIONALLY 
FAMOUS  PRODUCTS  ABSOLUTELY  FREE! 

Yes,  ladies,  it's  now  possible  fo  furnish  your 
entire  home,  clothe  yourself,  your  family  and 
have  all  the  luxuries  you  have  always  wanted 
WITHOUT  SPENDING  A  PENNY.  Just  form  a 
Charm  House  Club  among  your  friends  and  be 
secretary.  Everyone  will  be  after  you  to  join 
because  fhey  SAVE  MONEY  and  receive  valu-/5i 
able  FREE  PREMIUMS.  '^ 

It's  easy  and  lots  of  fun — no  sell- 
ing, no  bookkeeping.  As  secretary, 
you  get  $100-$300  AND  MORE  in 
nationally  advertised  appliances, 
furniture,  linens,  fashions  and  gift- 
ware  ABSOLUTELY   FREE. 


FREE!    HUGE  COIOR  CATAIOG 


}  CHARM  HOUSE  CLUB  PLAN,  NEW  HYDE  PARK  15,  N.Y.  i 

I  Please   send  me  ABSOLUTELY  FREE   and   without  any  ' 

I  obligation  your  LARGE  NEW    1956  catalog.  I 

I  Name ■ 

!  Address ' 


City.. 


Extra 

Cash 

Fast 


Here's  an  unusual  opportunity  to  earn  extra 
cash  fast  and  often.  We  pay  the  highest  com- 
missions to  thousands  of  part-time  salesmen 
who  help  us  take  orders  for  magazine  sub- 
scriptions, all  over  the  country.  Easy!  No  ex- 
perience! Rush  name  and  address  for  FREE 
money-making  information  to:  Macfadden  Pub- 
lications, 205   East  42  St.,   New  York  17,  N.Y. 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


» 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
"I  congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  injuries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 
R.  G.  VISCOSE  COMPANY 

140  N.   Dearborn  Street,   Chicago  2,    Illinois 


'l^w 
to. 


MAKE  MONEY  with' 
'Simple  cartoons: 


A  book  everyone  who  likeg  to  draw 
should  have.  It  is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 


FREE 
BOOK 


Uartoonists'  exchange 

Dept.  599  Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 


LIPS  SORE? 

POCKET  SIZE 

39c 


Beauty 
Demonsfrafors 

Wsnm 


Up  to  $5.00  an  hour 
demonstrating  famous 
Hdllywood  cosmetics 
in  your  neighborhood. 
Full  or  part  time.  For  free 
samples  and  details  write : 
Harry  Taylor,  President 


L  Good  Honsekeepin; 


^  ^a4&^i^m 


'KOLLVWOOOCOSMEirCS 

GlendalerCalif..  Dept.  TS-95 


WmiE:  BREVITYPE  INSTITUTE,  SAN  DIEGO,  CALIF.,  DEPT.  1721 

LEARN  THE  WORLD'S  SIMPLEST, 
SPEEDIEST  SHORTHAND   NOW 

FREE— please  send  me  lypic^l  lessons,  details  on  Brevitype— world's 
aimplesl.  speediest  shorthand —first  machine  shorthand  to  eliminate  coding. 
Tell  me  how  I  learn  Brevilype  in  X  'he  time  through  your  personally  guided 
home- study  course.  Show  me  how  switching  to  Brevity pe,  as  hundreds  have, 
prepares  me  for  security  as  a  stenographer,  secretary,  court  or  hearing 
reporter  here,  and  abroad,  m  business  or  Civil  Service— helps  me  increase 
my  salary  WA  to  100%.  Include  costs  and  budget  plans. 


MODERN: 

rPEWRITER  KEYBOARDI 
NO  CODINGI      FASTABCll 


THE  BREVITYPE 

MACHINE,  WHICH 

CARRIES  THIS  SEAL, 

COMES  WITH 

THIS  COURSE 


Happiness  to  Share 


{Continued  from  page  57) 
Beside  the  bed,  Frank  saw  a  battered  old 
radio.  It  was  Helen's  only  means  of  enter- 
tainment. With  a  wave  of  his  hand  and 
trying  to  sound  cheery,  Frank  said,  "Hi." 
Helen's  big,  dark  eyes  thanked  him  for 
having  taken  the  trouble  to  come  all  the 
way  from  St.  Louis  to  visit  her.  "Hi,"  she 
answered. 

Frank  and  Carl  sat  on  the  bed.  He  didn't 
sing  to  Helen.  Rather,  they  sat  and  talked 
music  and  records  all  afternoon.  Helen 
told  Frank,  "I  switch  my  radio  from  one 
station  to  another  so  I  can  hear  your  rec- 
ords. It  was  nice  of  you  to  come  for  a 
visit." 

On  leaving  the  charity  home,  Frank — 
who  had  been  broken  up  inside  to  see  the 
loneliness  written  on  Helen's  pretty  face — 
learned  that  Helen's  parents  lived  in  Rol- 
la,  Missouri.  Frequent  visits  to  Helen  were 
financially  impossible  for  them.  When  he 
and  Carl  left  the  home  and  were  driving 
back  to  St.  Louis,  Carl  said,  "Wouldn't  it 
be  wonderful  if  there  were  some  kind  of 
organization  that  would  go  out  and  see 
people  like  this  all  the  time?  Not  so  much 
to  entertain  them,  you  know — but  just 
sort  of  company!" 

Frank  jumped  at  the  suggestion.  "What 
would  you  call  a  thing  like  that?" 

"The  Friendship  Club,"  said  Carl. 

1  hat's  how  the  Friendship  Foundation 
of  America  was  born.  Their  first  title,  the 
Friendship  Club,  wasn't  used  because  a 
similar  title  was  already  in  existence.  But 
the  Friendship  Foundation  contained  all 
the  elements  of  their  original  idea.  On 
their  drive  back  to  St.  Louis,  Carl  and 
Frank  developed  a  motto  and  a  creed.  In 
time  they  had  these  printed  on  cards,  with 
their  motto  on  one  side:  "Help  yourself  by 
helping  others,"  and  their  creed  on  the 
other:  "Resolved — to  help  my  fellow  man 
at  any  time  in  any  way  possible,  regard- 
less of  race,  creed,  or  nationality,  without 
thought  of  repayment." 

The  creed  was  basic  to  the  theme  of  a 
book  by  Lloyd  C.  Douglas,  Dr.  Hudson's 
Secret  Journal,  which  Frank  had  come 
across  as  a  result  of  his  wide  reading:  "It 
is  the  story  of  a  man  who  is  finally  con- 
vinced that  you  can  be  happy  and  success- 
ful in  life  by  living  eighteen  lines  from  the 
Bible.  But  Mr.  Douglas  didn't  tell  his 
readers  what  the  lines  were.  He  hinted  at 
them  in  the  preface — then  made  his  read- 
ers go  to  the  Bible  and  count  them  out.  I 
did.  I  found  them  in  the  Book  of  Matthew 
— the  first  four  verses  of  Chapter  Six. 

"Carl  and  I  hoped  that  we  could  plant 
this  idea  in  the  minds  of  our  teen-age  fans. 
If  they  accepted  the  idea  in  their  forma- 
tive years,  we  thought  it  would  do  im- 
measurable good." 

Frank  had  the  cards  sent  to  his  prospec- 
tive fans.  "If  they  felt  they  wanted  to  use 
it  as  a  daily  rule  to  live  by,"  he  says, 
"then  they  were  invited  to  mail  a  regis- 
tration card  back,  and  we  sent  them  a 
Friendship  Foundation  membership  card." 
There  were  no  dues,  nothing  was  required 
to  become  a  member.  Frank  and  Carl  only 
hoped  that  the  presence  of  the  card  would 
bring  to  the  surface  that  basic  desire  in 
every  man  "to  help  others." 

"Thousands  of  cards  came  in,  but  I 
never  knew  how  many  members  we  had," 
says  Frank.  "We  later  got  letters  from 
older  folks — not  just  teenagers.  And,  when 
I  went  on  a  personal  appearance  tour,  I 
often  met  them.  Seeing  their  age,  I  would 
look  at  them  in  surprise,  saying,  'Are  you 
a  member  of  a  Frankie  Laine  Fan  Club?' 
And  they  answered,  'No,  but  I  do  belong 
to  the   Friendship  Foundation!' " 

Frank's    generosity,    his    desire    to    help 


others,  have  been  part  of  his  life  ever 
since  childhood.  Born  March  30,  on  Town- 
send  Street  in  the  heart  of  Chicago's  "Lit- 
tle Italy,"  the  oldest  of  seven  brothers  and 
sisters,  Frank  early  learned  the  meaning 
of  sharing.  His  parents,  Anna  and  John 
LoVecchio,  from  the  village  of  Monreale, 
Sicily,  worked  hard  to  keep  their  brood 
clean  and  fed.  Frank's  father  was  a  barber. 
He  wanted  his  oldest  son  to  be  a  pharma- 
cist or  architect.  His  mother  wanted  him 
to  choose  for  himself.  Frank  knew  he 
wanted  to  sing  from  the  first  day  he  was 
able  to  hold  enough  air  to  carry  a  full 
note. 

When  he  was  four  years  old,  the  family 
moved  from  Townsend  Street  to  Siegel 
Street  on  Chicago's  North  Side,  to  1440 
Park  Avenue  (across  from  the  Immaculate 
Conception,  where  he  went  to  grammar 
school),  to  Schiller  Street  (a  block  and  a 
half  from  the  school),  where  they  lived 
for  twenty-five  years.  Frank  says  it  didn't 
make  any  difference  what  street  they  lived 
on — for  them,  it  was  always  a  street  of 
happiness.  At  the  Immaculate  Conception, 
Frank  sang  in  the  choir.  "For  my  first  five 
years,"  he  says,  "I  sang  hymns.  I  was 
never  a  boy  soprano  or  anything  like  that. 
I  never  had  a  solo.  I  didn't  stand  out  from 
the  crowd.  I  didn't  have  that  kind  of  a 
voice.  I  was  just  one  of  the  guys." 

In  his  first  year  of  high  school,  Frank 
had  to  give  up  the  choir  because  the  re- 
hearsals took  too  much  time — he  had  an 
after-school-and-Saturday  job  in  a  drug 
store  that  helped  his  family  make  ends 
meet. 

When  he  was  stiU  in  his  teens,  Frank 
sang  his  first  solo.  "Tom  Hennahan,  a  pal 
of  mine,  gave  a  birthday  party  for  his  sis- 
ter, Theresa.  Tony  Benson,  a  young  pro- 
fessional ukulele  player,  was  there.  'Sings' 
were  popular  in  those  days.  We  started  on 
'Mia  Bella  Rosa,'  with  Tony  on  the  uke. 
'Mia  Bella  Rosa'  had  a  plaintive  lyric.  As 
we  sang,  I  gave  myself  up  to  the  song.  I 
had  tears  in  my  eyes,  the  girls  were  aU 
crying — and  everyone  else  stopped  singing. 
It  was  just  one  of  those  things.  That  is 
how  my  solo  singing  really  started.  After 
that,  every  time  we  went  to  a  picnic  or 
party,  they  used  to  call  on  Tony  to  play 
and  me  to  sing." 

r  rank  loved  to  sing.  It  was  one  way  he 
could  give  of  himself  generously.  When  he 
was  still  in  his  teens,  his  friends  all  met 
in  the  Merry  Garden  Ballroom  on  Chi- 
cago's North  Side.  One  Sunday  afternoon 
they  urged  him  to  take  a  crack  at  singing 
with  Joe  Kayser's  orchestra.  Songs  like 
"Through,"  "Coquette"  and  "Old  New 
England  Moon"  were  popular  at  that  time. 
Kayser's  band  was  filled  with  now -famous 
names:  David  Rose,  Mugsy  Spanier,  Gene 
Krupa.  The  crowds  loved  Frank  from  the 
start.  He  spent  every  spare  moment  after 
that  at  the  Merry  Garden.  To  Frank,  who 
loved  to  give,  singing  was  sharing. 

Frank's  first  singing  paycheck  went  to 
keep  the  family  together.  "It  was  the  heart 
of  the  Depression,"  he  says.  "My  dad  was 
earning  $26  a  week.  We  were  so  close  to 
going  on  relief  it  was  heartbreaking.  This 
is  one  thing  my  mother  didn't  want  to 
happen.  We  did  go  on  relief  once — for  two 
days — and  Mother  was  frantic  with  shame. 
So  Pop  said,  'To  heck  with  it,  we'll  starve 
first!'  So  we  took  ourselves  off  relief, 
wouldn't  accept  anything.  That's  when  I 
happened  to  sing  as  guest  at  a  marathon." 

The  marathon  was  staged  by  Eddie  Gil- 
martin  at  the  Merry  Garden.  Frank  was 
numb  with  fear.  He  started  on  "Beside  an 
Open  Fireplace,"  but  the  first  few  bars 
were  sung  out  of  habit.  "When  it  was 
over,"  says  Frank,  "I  was  greeted  with  an 


I 


ominous  silence.  I  thought  I  was  a  goner.  I 
walked  toward  the  exit — it  looked  to  be 
miles  away.  Then,  when  I  reached  it,  the 
roof  fell  in.  Eddie  Gilmartin  called  me 
back  for  a  encore.  I  sang  another,  and  an- 
other, and  then  another.  Some  instinct 
told  me  to  get  off  while  I  was  still  ahead. 
I  did."   But  the  applause  rolled  on. 

The  marathons  and  walkathons  of  the 
Thirties  were  especially  designed  for 
Frankie  Laine,  a  man  who  liked  to  sing, 
who  liked  to  give  himself  to  an  audience. 
"There  were  two  ways  to  make  money  in 
a  marathon,"  says  Frank.  "To  compete  in 
the  walkathon  or  danceathon,  or  to  enter- 
tain— sing,  dance,  or  tell  jokes.  The  shows 
lasted  from  8  to  12  P.M.  The  audience, 
coming  to  see  the  marathon,  threw  money 
to  the  performers  entertaining  in  the  ring. 
Those  of  us  who  weren't  in  the  marathon 
at  the  moment  picked  up  the  coins,  hand- 
ing it  over  to  whoever  did  the  turn.  For 
example,  my  turn  came  to  sing  'Beside  an 
Open  Fireplace'  and,  if  they  liked  me,  the 
money  would  shower  on  the  floor.  The 
other  kids  picked  it  up,  turning  it  over  to 
me.  If  I  was  lucky,  I  had  an  encore,  and 
the  copper  shower  was  repeated.  After  my 
turn,  I  picked  up  for  the  other  kids." 

Eddie  Gilmartin  opened  a  new  mara- 
thon in  Baltimore  in  1931,  inviting  Frank 
to  go  along  as  a  contestant.  "He  promised 
that,  if  I  didn't  last  as  a  contestant,  he 
would  give  me  a  job  as  an  afternoon  mas- 
ter of  ceremonies.  I  lost  my  partner  after 
six  days,  was  alone  in  the  contest  for 
ninety  days,  then  got  another  partner, 
and  finally  wound  up  winning  the  thing. 
I'd  left  home  at  seventeen,  absolutely 
broke,  and  came  back  three  and  a  half 
months  later  with  $4800!  When  I  came 
home  with  this  money — or  I  should  say 
when  the  $4800  came  home  with  me — the 
LoVecchios  had  a  New  Orleans  Mardi 
Gras  on  Chicago's  North  Side." 

After  a  rest,  Frank  followed  the  mara- 
thons from  Baltimore  to  Floral  Park  in 
Bergen,  New  Jersey,  to  Atlantic  City.  As 
a  result  of  the  hot  and  cold  work  in  New 
Jersey,  Frank  came  down  with  a  fever  of 
105.  But  he  continued  to  work,  for  he 
didn't  want  to  let  his  friends  down.  Final- 
ly, he  had  to  go  to  bed  to  rest,  making  his 
partners  promise  to  wake  him  for  the  eve- 
ning's work.  But  they  let  him  sleep.  When 
he  awoke,  a  day  later,  he  was  out  of  the 
running. 

The  management  carried  Frank  while 
he  recovered.  Later,  in  Atlantic  City,  he 
won  the  walkathon,  setting  a  world's  rec- 
ord of  3,501  hours.  "We  called  them 
'grinds,'  "  says  Frank.  "We  ate  eight  meals 
a  day.  We  burned  up  so  much  energy  we 
had  to  eat  every  three  hours.  During  that 
contest  I  put  on  twenty  pounds!"  Frank's 
record  of  3,501  hours  still  stands. 

In  January,  1936,  Frank  left  the  walka- 
thons for  a  job  with  the  Atlas  Powder 
Company,  as  shipping  clerk,  because  the 
"grinds  were  getting  too  tough."  As  Frank 
says,  "The  entertainment  became  less  a 
factor,  and  the  physical  endurance  part 
became  more  prominent.  Finally,  you  had 
to  be  an  Atlas  of  strength  yourself  to  wind 
up  with  prize  money — so  I  went  to  Stam- 
ford, Connecticut,  with  the  powder  com- 
pany. 

"After  a  year  there,  I  went  home  to 
Chicago.  I  tried  to  start  singing  again.  A 
friend  from  my  marathon  days  found  me 
a  job  in  Cleveland.  For  five  months,  I  sang 
at  a  little  place  called  Lindsay's  Sky  Bar." 

Five  months'  singing  gave  Frank  confi- 
dence. He  began  thinking  that  success 
might  soon  be  his.  On  the  strength  of  his 
showing  in  Cleveland,  he  went  to  New 
York  with  a  pubHcist — but  New  York  was 
not  ready  for  Frank.  "I  was  ashamed  to  go 
back  to  Chicago  or  Cleveland,"  he  says, 
"so,  for  two  years  in  New  York,  I  battled 


it  out.  I  finally  landed  on  a  radio  station — 
made  a  lot  of  radio  friends,  but  that's 
about  all."  Then,  in  1940,  Frank's  brother 
Sam  was  being  married,  and  Frank  took 
that  opportunity  to  return  to  Chicago. 

Cleveland  called  Frank  again.  Art  Cut- 
hp,  his  piano  player  at  Lindsay's,  wrote 
him  about  another  job.  Frank  was  in  the 
hospital  recuperating  from  a  knee  injury. 
"By  the  time  I  reached  Cleveland,"  he 
says,  "Art  had  given  me  up  and  gone  back 
to  school.  When  I  got  there — no  job." 

Frank  finally  found  work  at  the  College 
Inn.  Some  friends  introduced  htm  to  a  girl 
singer,  June  Hart.  She  needed  work  and 
Frank  generously  got  her  a  job  at  the  Inn. 
Then  he  was  fired. 

"We  had  mutual  likes  in  music,"  he  says, 
"and  we  sang  the  same  songs.  When  she 
quit  the  Inn,  in  September,  1940,  I  found 
her  another  spot  at  the  Cabin  Club.  Then 
Red  Norvo,  a  friend  of  mine,  came  to 
town — his  girl  singer  had  gotten  married 
and  left  his  orchestra.  I  said,  'Come  on 
down  to  the  Cabin  Club  and  hear  June.' 
He  hired  her  and  took  her  to  New  York. 

"I  had  known  June  about  a  month," 
says  Frank,  "but  in  my  career  it  was  the 
difference  between  success  and  failure. 
She  had  one  oldie  in  her  repertoire — 
'That's  My  Desire.'  I  had  never  heard  it, 
and  I  didn't  know  it.  It  haunted  me.  After 
working  a  couple  of  more  places  in  Cleve- 
land, I  gave  up  singing  in  February,  1941, 
and  went  to  work  for  the  Parker  Appli- 
ance Company." 

In  a  short  time,  Frank  became  a  skilled 
machine  operator — but  the  rhythm  of  the 
machine  never  let  him  forget  the  pulsing 
melody  of  "That's  My  Desire."  When  the 
war  hit  in  '41,  Frank  tried  to  enlist  but 
was  frozen  to  his  machine  job.  In  1943,  he 
was  sent  to  the  West  Coast  to  set  up  a 
similar  department  in  South  Gate. 

"I  wanted  to  Uve  in  Hollywood,"  says 
Frank.  "I  hoped  to  make  some  singing 
contacts.  I  ended  up  driving  sixty-four 
miles  a  day  back  and  forth  from  South 
Gate  to  Hollywood,  and  was  too  tired  to 
see  anybody." 

When  the  war  ended  in  1945,  Frank  was 
let  go.  He  was  out  of  work.  Then  Al  Jarvis 
took  an  interest  in  him  and  gave  him  a 
fifteen-minute  "live"  section  on  his  disc- 
jockey show.  Jarvis  invited  Frank  to  share 
his  Garden  of  Allah  apartment,  cind  Al 
took  Frank  to  sing  on  his  Sunday  hospital 
tours.  "We  visited  every  hospital  in  Cali- 
fornia within  a  one-day-up-and-back  bus 
ride." 

The  added  experience  again  made  Frank 
think  that  success  was  in  the  offing.  Then 
one  rainy  night,  with  his  last  forty  dollars 
in  his  pocket,  he  was  held  up!  It  was  a 
dark  moment  in  his  life.  Frank  walked 
disconsolantly  two  blocks  through  the  rain 
to  Billy  Berg's,  a  small  club,  in  search  of 
a  bit  of  cheer  for  his  spirit. 

Billy  Berg's  was  a  Vine  Street  club  fre- 
quented by  musicians  and  show  people. 
Frank  had  sung  there  before,  for  fun. 
That  night,  he  sang  for  a  plate  of  spaghetti 
— and  wound  up  with  a  paying  job.  When 
the  applause  died  down,  Hoagy  Car- 
michael  came  out  of  the  audience  to  con- 
gratulate him — and  urged  Billy  Berg  to 
hire  Frank  on  the  spot. 

"At  Berg's,  I  acted  as  emcee — intro- 
ducing the  other  acts.  Twice  each  night, 
they  let  me  do  a  singing  spot  of  my  own. 
I  sang  all  the  old  songs  and  nobody  paid 
any  attention. 

"One  night  I  made  an  announcement — I 
was  going  to  sing  a  brand-new  song.  The 
house  got  quiet  and  I  gave  out  with  the 
number  I'd  heard  six  years  ago,  'That's 
My  Desire.'  It  wasn't  new  when  it  came 
out  in  1931;  it  wasn't  a  hit.  When  it  was 
revived  in  1940  by  Jxine  Hart,  it  still 
wasn't  a  hit.  But  I  couldn't  forget  it. 


a-tnclioi/i  d&li'OniA'J 
P  A  T  T  E'^  N 


Make  This 

Anne  Fogarty 

Original 

and  be  the 

Best  Dressed  Girl 

In   Town 


Let  these  famous 
American  Designers 
help  you  be  the  best 
dressed  girl  in  town 
—if  you  can  sew:—       ^^j^E  FOCARTY 

Ceil  Chapman — Claire  McCardell — Tina 
Leser — Jo  Copeland — Philip  Mangone — 
Monte  Sano — Herbert  Sondheim — Anne 
Fogarty — Brigance — David  Goodstein — 
Joset  Walker — Joseph  Halpert — Vera 
Maxwell — Toni  Owen — Fira  Benenson— 
Harvey  Berin — Frank  Gallant — Mollie 
Parnis — Clare  Potter. 

Patterns    of    136    original    designs    by 
these   famous   names   are   now   available. 

To  see  this  entire  collection  send  50c 
for  our  100-page  pattern  booklet  XL 


World  Wide,  Dept.  WG-955 
63  Central  Avenue 
Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send    me    100-page    pattern    booklet    XL      1 
enclose  50e. 

NAME 


STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE. 


NEW,  NATURAL  LIGHTWEIGHT 

DENTAL  PLATE 


MADE  FROM  YOUROLDONE-New.Professional 

Method  gives  you  natural-look  in?,  perfect^fittine:  plastic 

RIate — upper,  lower  or  partial— from  your  old  cracked  or 
(ose  plate  without  an  imvreaaion.  CLINICAL  method 
means  fast  service,  huge  savings.  Try  new  plate  full  30 
days  at  our  risk.  New  plates  sent  yoa  AirMail  aame  day. 
orun  tin  unUCV~iQstyournameandaddresBforfuI]  partica- 
OLnU  nU  MUnCl  larsFREE.  No  cost.  No  obligation.  ActDow- 

CLINICAL  DENTAL  LAB^335  W.  Madison  SUDepL 3g-K,  Chicago  fi,  III 


$159J 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata- 
log pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma- 
ternity fashions.  World's  Largest.  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.96 
to  $22.98.  Catalog  mailed  in  plain  envelope, 

C  RAWFORD'S 

Dept.  35,  8015Wornall,KansasCityl4,Mo. 


00  FOR  A  LITTLE 
SPARE  TIME 

Wi'fh  NEW  Christmas  Card  Line! 


Only  Cardinal 
Offers  You 

NewTallCardsl 

30-CardlBox{ 


Make  75c  profit  on  each  $1.25  TALL- 
CARD  ''Imperial  Gold"  Christmas 
Assortment  —  $60.00  cash  on  80 
boxes  easily.  250  fastest  selling  card 
assortments,  stationery,  gift  items — 
many  EXCLUSIVES  including  Per- 
sonalized Christmas  Cards,  Famous 
Doehlaline  color  catalog.  ExtraCash 
Bonus;  Guarantee  assures  up  to  15c 
more  profit  per  box.  1- Free -With -3 
Sample  Off  er;  other  surprise  Free  Of- 
fers. Send  coupon  for 
sample  kit  NOW 

$1.95  GIFT       /^"""Guarameed 
"^P^mpt  A^fiSi',  ^^ood  Housekeeping 
j&vttnsto_S 

CARDINAL  CRAFTSMEN     _ 

1400  STATE  AVE.,  DEPT.  29-T,  CINCINNATI   14,  OHIO     | 

Send  money-making  bit  of  5  assortments  on  approval,  FRGE    ■ 
Personalized  Samples,  other  FREE  Offers.  I 


Name 

Addre38. 
City 


99 


"When  I  finished,  Mrs.  Berg  ran  up 
saying,  'My  goodness,  what  a  beautiful 
tune — sing  it  again!'  Well,  she  was  the 
boss's  wife,  so  I  sang  it  again — and  I  sang 
it  four  or  five  times  a  night  from  then  on." 

While  at  Berg's,  Frank  cut  a  record  at 
Mercury,  "I  May  Be  Wrong  But  I  Think 
You're  Wonderful."  The  high  school  crowd 
thought  he  was  wonderful,  too.  Agent  Milt 
Krasne's  two  children  heard  it,  and  told 
him:   "This  Frankie  Laine  is  really  good!" 

"One  of  the  kids  remembered  my  name 
from  the  Garden  of  Allah,"  says  Frank. 
"While  there,  I  had  taught  them  how  to 
dive  in  the  swimming  pool.  Since  we  were 
practically  old  friends,  they  got  their 
father  to  come  down  to  Billy  Berg's. 

"Mr.  Krasne  liked  my  singing  'That's 
My  Desire,'  and  got  me  eight  'sides'  to  do 
at  Mercury.  But  Mr.  Berle  Adams,  now  a 
vice-president  at  the  MCA  agency,  didn't 
want  me  to  record  'Desire.'  I  insisted.  I 
told  him,  'Either  I  do  this  tune  or  I  don't 
record!'  There  I  was,  looking  for  a  job, 
looking  for  the  big  break — and  gambling 
on  that  tune.  But  I  had  great  faith  in  it. 
Mr.  Adams  was  amazed  at  my  reckless- 
ness, but  finally  said,  'Okay,  send  me  a 
copy!'  Then  I  couldn't  find  the  lyrics  or 
sheet  music!  I  spent  a  hectic  week.  Final- 
ly, in  Rings — an  old  music  store  in  Holly- 
wood— I  tracked  it  down.  When  I  sent  him 
a  copy,  he  wired  back,  'You  can  pick  the 
rest  of  them,  too!'  I  chose  'River  St.  Marie,' 
'September  in  the  Rain,'  and  then  wired 
him,  'Now,  you  pick  one.'  He  picked  a 
song,   'Ain't  That  Just  Like   a  Woman.' " 

"That's  My  Desire"  was  an  immediate 
smash.  It  was  recorded  by  twenty-five 
different  artists,  but  Frank,  who  now  re- 
cords for  Columbia,  outsold  them  all.  It 
still  sells  ten  to  twenty  thoiosand  copies  a 
year.  Frank's  first  royalty  check  was  for 
$36,000.  It  was  1947,  and  Frank  was  imme- 
diately an  international  success. 

b  rankie  Laine  accepted  his  success  gra- 
ciously. He  had  struggled  too  many  years 
to  be  carried  away  by  the  immediate  thrill 
of  the  crowd's  acclaim.  For  ten  years,  he 
and  his  close  friend  and  accompanist,  Carl 
Fischer,  literally  traveled  from  country  to 
country  to  satisfy  all  of  Frankie's  fans. 
France,  Italy,  England — all  raved  over  the 
great  singing  personality.  Fan  clubs 
sprang  up  in  such  unlikely  spots  as  Cairo, 
Johannesburg,  Malta  and  Iceland.  When 
he  played  the  London  Palladium  in  1952, 
the  reviewer  described  his  voice  as  "that 
of  a  purring  lion." 

The  fans  went  wild  at  the  Palladium. 
When  Frank  came  on  stage,  one  woman 
leaped  into  the  orchestra  pit,  clambered 
onto  the  stage  and  ran  to  embrace  Frank. 
Then  the  orchestra  struck  up  "God  Save 
the  Queen."  The  lady  froze,  out  of  habit, 
in  mid-stride.  Immediately  after  the  Brit- 
ish national  anthem,  the  bobbies  pounced 
on  the  intruder,  intending  to  whisk  her  off 
stage.  She  had  been  carried  away  by  the 
crowd's  and  her  own  enthusiasm  and  now 
stood  frightened  at  her  own  audacity, 
shaking  like  a  tiny  English  robin  in  the 
rain.  Frank  came  over,  put  his  arm  around 
her,  and  took  her  into  his  dressing  room. 
She  was  about  forty-five  years  of  age  and 
obviously  embarrassed  at  her  stunt.  Frank 
was  amazed  that  such  a  frail  soul  could  so 
easily  vault  five  feet  of  footlights.  "Oh,  I'm 
so  mortified,"  she  exclaimed.  "Now,  little 
lady — don't  you  be,"  said  Frank.  "I've 
never  had  such  an  enthusiastic  reception 
in  all  my  life."  And  he  meant  it. 

Frank  was  such  a  fantastic  success  at 
the  Palladium  that  he  was  approached  to 

T     go  into  television.  Enough  film  was  shot  in 

V     three  weeks  to  make  up  twenty-six  shows. 

H  Then  he  went  back  on  the  road.  Before 
the  films  were  released  to  TV,  Frank  had 
played  London  twice  again — once  at  a 
command  performance  for  the  Queen! 

100 


While  at  Los  Angeles'  Cocoanut  Grove 
in  1948,  Frank  was  introduced  to  actress 
Nan  Grey,  celebrating  her  birthday  there. 
A  year  later,  they  met  again  at  a  friend's 
house.  And  a  year  after  that — June  15, 
1950 — they  were  married. 

Nan's  two  daughters  by  a  previous  mar- 
riage (Pam  and  Jan,  11  and  12  years  old), 
immediately  took  to  Frank.  He's  proud  of 
the  fact  they  call  him  "Daddy."  Their  re- 
actions to  his  TV  show,  however,  are 
mixed.  Talking  about  the  song  "Swamp 
Girl,"  they  asked,  "Daddy,  why  did  you 
do  that  song?  It's  corny."  Frank  explained 
it  was  an  "adult"  nimiber.  He  had  to  sing 
a  variety  of  songs  for  his  audience.  "Some- 
times," he  says,  "they  don't  like  a  song 
until  after  I  explain  why  I  sang  it.  And 
sometimes  they  don't  like  it  even  aiter  I 
explain  it." 

Frank  is  a  generous  and  sensitive  hus- 
band and  father.  Though  he  still  makes 
many  personal  appearances,  when  he's  at 
home,  Frank's  time  belongs  to  the  family. 
His  hobbies  are  hunting,  riding  and  golf. 
Much  of  his  time  is  devoted  to  teaching 
his  daughters  how  to  putt.  As  for  himself, 
he  says,  "My  golf  is  not  a  threat  to  Bing." 

Frank  owns  one  horse — a  palomino.  He 
has  always  loved  horses,  has  been  crazy 
about  the  freedom  and  excitement  of  rid- 
ing. When  he  was  still  working  his  way  to 
the  top,  "going  riding"  cost  too  much — 
and  owning  a  horse  was  out  of  the  ques- 
tion. So,  seven  years  ago,  as  soon  as  his 
success  had  been  earned,  he  bought  the 
palomino.  He  keeps  it  in  Chad's  Glendale 
Stables.  He  rides  when  he  can.  The  palo- 
mino is  a  symbol  of  his  success. 

Frank  shares  many  interests  with  his 
wife.  Nan,  the  most  important  being  her 
interest  in  interior  decorating  and  an- 
tiques. When  they  were  first  married,  Nan 
sometimes  traveled  with  Frank  on  his 
personal  appearances.  "We  traveled  by 
car,"  says  Frank,  "from  New  Orleans  to 
Chicago.  I  don't  have  to  tell  you  that  New 
Orleans  is  a  paradise  for  antiques.  Nan 
loaded  the  car  so  full  I  had  to  watch  the 
bridge  and  overpass  markings  to  make 
sure  we  could  drive  under.  Well,  it  wasn't 
that  bad,  reaUy.  But,  on  the  way  home,  I 
told  her,  'If  we  keep  this  up,  we'll  have  to 
open  a  store.'  She  turned  to  me  and  said, 
'Well?'  So  we  did." 

Frank  says,  "Becaiise  of  the  store,  ques- 
tions came  up  like,  'How  should  I  paint 
this?'  and  'Where  should  I  put  my  sofa?' 
Soon  Nan  was  so  busy  with  interior  dec- 
orating, she  didn't  have  time  to  shop  for 
stock.  So  we  sold  the  store.  Nan  now  has 
her  interior  decorator's  license,  is  working 
with  Wallace  McDonald,  Beverly  Hills 
builder." 

Frank's  life  was  saddened  last  year 
when  his  good  friend  and  accompanist, 
Carl  Fischer,  suddenly  passed  away.  They 
had  been  together  for  ten  years.  Frank 
and  Carl  met  accidentally  through  a  mu- 
tual friend — they  were  introduced  as  a 
"boy  who  sings  and  writes  lyrics,  meet  a 
guy  who  writes  music." 

They  were  inseparable  from  the  start — 
Frank  and  Carl  reflected  one  another's 
generosity  of  heart  and  sensitivity.  They 
had  the  same  tastes  in  music  and  together 
wrote  both  popular  songs  ("We'll  Be  To- 
gether Again,"  "What  Could  Be  Sweeter" 
and  "When  You're  In  Love"),  and  semi- 
classical  music  (such  as  "Reflections  of  an 
Indian  Boy").   Victor  Young  orchestrated 


October 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  September  6 


and  scored  "Reflections,"  conducted  it 
with  the  Cleveland  Symphony  last  August. 
It  will  soon  be  recorded  by  both  Columbia 
Records  and  Decca. 

Frank  feels  that  Carl  was  the  greatest 
influence  in  his  professional  and  personal 
life.  Typical  of  this  relationship  was  Carl's 
Friendship  Foundation  suggestion  after 
their  meeting  with  yoimg,  bedridden  Hel- 
en Maysey.  He  had,  in  essence,  crystal- 
lized and  made  clear  to  Frank  a  philosophy 
he  imconsciously  had  been  living  all  his 
life.  Carl's  passing  left  a  gap  in  Frank's 
life.  Though  he  does  not  tell  of  it,  Frank 
has  arranged  for  Fischer's  widow  and  her 
two  children  to  share  in  the  Laine  finan- 
cial success  for  life. 

Frank  lives  his  generous  philosophy 
every  day  of  the  year.  One  of  his  habits 
is  to  search  out  young,  new  talent  and 
encourage  it  along  the  way  to  success. 
Bobby  Milano  was  one  of  his  "finds." 

In  1948,  Bobby  Milano  (then  Charlie 
Caci)  came  to  Shea's  Theater  in  Buffalo 
with  his  brother.  Says  Frank:  "His  broth- 
er persuaded  me  to  put  him  on  the  bill.  I 
had  never  seen  him  perform  and,  frankly, 
I  was  afraid  if  he  were  bad  he'd  break  the 
continuity  of  the  show.  At  first,  I  said  'No.' 
But  the  brother  wouldn't  give  up.  He 
stayed  in  the  dressing  room  and,  every 
time  I  came  in,  he'd  say,  'Please,  Mr. 
Laine,  I'm  telling  you  my  brother  is  sen- 
sational.' I  finally  said,  'All  right.'  Charlie 
went  out,  doing  an  imitation  of  me  singing 
'Baby  That  Ain't  Right.'  It  tore  the  house 
down.  He  was  sensational,  all  right. 

"But  he  was  too  young,  I  told  him  when 
he  was  17  or  18  to  come  and  talk  to  me.  A 
few  years  later,  when  Carl  passed  away,  I 
ran  into  another  accompanist  I'd  known 
for  years — Al  Lerner,  who  is  with  me  now. 
Al  said,  'Frank,  there's  a  kid  living  at  my 
house  you  ought  to  hear.' 

"  'What  does  he  sound  like  and  what's 
his  name?'  I  asked. 

"  'Bobby  Milano — he  sounds  like  nobody. 
He  has  a  style  of  his  own,  although  he 
does  a  pretty  good  imitation  of  a  lot  of 
people — including  you.' 

"I  said,  'Where  is  he  from?' 

"  'Buffalo.' 

"  'You  don't  mean  Charlie  Caci,  do  you?' 

"And  he  said,  'Yes.' "  ; 

So  Frank  took  Bobby  Milano — formerly 
Charlie  Caci — under  his  wing,  as  promised. 
He  sent  him  to  his  vocal  coach,  Lillian 
Goodman,  arranged  to  have  Betty  Hutton 
hear  him,  and  Betty  persuaded  Al  Living- 
ston to  sign  him  at  Capitol  Records. 

Frank  carries  his  proteges — such  as 
Bobby  Milano,  Jerri  Adams  and  Sue 
Clauson — as  long  as  they  need  to  be  car- 
ried. He  pays  their  expenses  for  singing 
lessons,  sometimes  their  professional 
wardrobe,  oftentimes  plane  or  train  fare 
to  benefits — everything  that  is  needed, 
from  gowns  to  grooming,  shoes  to  singing 
lessons.  With  some  of  his  "finds,"  expenses 
have  gone  over  $5,000.  When  they're  ready 
he  tries  to  get  them  either  a  recording 
contract  or  a  guest  shot  on  a  TV  show. 

Frank  gives  unstintingly  of  his  own  ex- 
perience and  his  own  time  to  help  these 
youngsters  along.  He  asks  nothing  in  re- 
turn. He  admits,  if  they  would  like  to  re- 
turn this  investment  in  their  future,  once 
they  are  successful  he  would  accept  it — 
but  nothing  more — and  only  because  it 
will  give  him  the  opportunity  to  help 
someone  else  up  the  ladder. 

Frank's  generous  giving  is  simply  a  re- 
flection of  his  own  basic  philosophy  of  life, 
a  philosophy  written  out  on  the  little  card 
he  carries  in  his  pocket:  On  one  side, 
"Help  yourself  by  helping  others" — and, 
on  the  other,  "Resolved:  To  help  my  fel- 
low man  at  any  time  in  any  way  possible, 
regardless  of  race,  creed,  or  nationality, 
without  thought  of  repayment." 


f 


I 


e  au 


B 


R 


u  I    cfla  t  r 


C 


K 


BRECK 


1.00 


OZ    lUeCK  HMHORESS    t  -•- 
4 1. SO    V'jlue 


JOHN         H         BRECK         INC 
NEW  YORK 


BRECK  HAIRDRESS  IS  OFFERED  IN 
COMBINATION  WITH  A  BRECK  SHAMPOO 
Breck  Hairdress,  a  cream  lotion,  keeps  hair  lustrous  and  manageable 
without  an  oily  appearance.  Breck  Hairdress  helps  condition  dry, 
damaged  hair,  making  it  soft  and  easy  to  arrange.  It  may  also  be  used 
to  set  the  hair.  There  are  three  Breck  Shampoos.  One  Breck  Shampoo 
is  for  dry  hair.  Another  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  oily  hair.  A  third  Breck 
Shampoo  is  for  normal  hair.  Select  the  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual 
hair  condition.  A  Breck  Shampoo  is  not  drying  to  the  hair,  yet  cleans 
thoroughly.  A  Breck  Shampoo  leaves  your  hair  soft,  shining  and  beautiful. 
Special  Combination  Offer  -  A  50i  bottle  of  Breck  Hairdress  with  a  $1.00  bottle  of  one  of  the 
Three  Breck  Shampoos  -for  dry,  oily  or  normal  hair.  A  $1.50  value  for  $1.00  plus  3^  tax 


MANUFACTURING        CHEMISTS  •  SPRINGFIELD 

CHICAGO  •  SAN  FRANCISCO 

Copyright  1955  by  John  H.  Breck  Inc 


3       MASSACHUSETTS 
OTTAWA  CANADA 


Chesterfield 

Made  the  Modern  Way-  with ^<C^J^^(^J^ 


I  \  MIRROR 

DIO  MIRROR'S  N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 


EXCLUSIVE 

Do  you  really  know 
ETHEL  and  ALBERT? 
• 
Break  The  Bank- 
Lawrence  Welk 
BIG  NEW  CONTEST 


ROSEMARY  CLOONEY 


HN  BARAGREY 


ROSEMARY  DeCAMP 


!• 


«»    •  ■  r 

r.V*  -  J  = 


M  --^ 


A" 


I 


■■'^ySifif^t^fi^ViiffV^^-^^;-^ 


'KoiiL  eaM  liLii.ve  TliLa.i;  Ivoi^j^  Iiool^ 


Very  young  beauties  have  it — so  can  you!  Yes,  the  milder  your  soap, 
the  more  your  skin  will  look  like  hers.  A  simple  change  to  regular  care 
with  her  pure,  mild  Ivory  leaves  your  skin  deliciously  clean,  so  soft 
and  healthy-looking.  That  Ivory  Look  becomes  you,  too! 


99  lot  %    PURE  ...  IT   FLOATS 


Wash  your  face  with  pure, 
mild  Ivory  . . .  mild  enough  for 
baby's  skin  and  so  right  for 
your  complexion,  too. 


MORE     DOCTORS     ADVISE     IVORY    THAN     ANY     OTHER     SOAP! 


New/! 
nov\/  safely 


deodorant  discovery 
stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


Guanmteedby^  This  Seal  Certifies  that  New  Mum  with  M-3 

,  Good  Housekeeping 

^^DvinBtDjtf^   won't  irritate  normal  skin  or  damage  fabrics 


The  roast  is  almost  done,  the  table's 
set,  and  she's  whipping  meringue  for 
his  favorite  pie.  Suddenly,  he's  home! 

But  this  busy,  pretty  wife  is  ready 
for  that  bear-hug  any  time.  She  uses 
New  Mum. 

This  doctor's  deodorant  discovery 
now  contains  M-3,  an  invisible  ingredi- 
ent that  keeps  on  destroying  odor  bac- 
teria 24  hours  a  day. 


New  Mum  is  all-day  dependable— used 
by  more  fastidious  women  than  any 
other  deodorant.  Contains  no  harsh  in- 
gredients—will not  block  pores  or  irri- 
tate normal  skin.  Creamier  New  Mum 
is  fragrant,  gentle,  safe  for  prettiest 
fabrics— sfays  moist  in  the  jar. 

Buy  New  Mum  today  at  any  toiletry 
counter  — it's  that  milk-white  jar  with 
the  bright  red  cap. 


Proved  in  comparison  tests  made 
by  a  doctor.  A  deodorant  without 
M-3,  tested  under  one  arm,  stopped 
perspiration  odor  only  a  few  hours. 
Yet,  New  Mum  with  M-3,  tested  un- 
der the  other  arm,  stopped  odor  for 
a  full  24  hours. 


...^:..^-:^* 
-«««««« 


y(/:^ 


Nev\#  Mum 

with  long -lasting  M-3(hexachlorophene) 


Another  fine  Product  of  Bristol-Myers 


■^ff'^.flp?'  ■'ip^a^^*'' 


she's  popular! 

Because  she  comes  into  contact  with  so 
many  people,  she  relies — naturally — on  in- 
ternal sanitary  protection.  She  mightn't 
Eut  it  in  so  many  words,  even  to  herself, 
ut  there's  lots  about  the  bulky  belt-pin- 
pad  harness  that  is  definitely  repellent  to 
fastidious  women.  The  possibility  of  odor, 
for  example.  Or  bulges.  All  the  difficul- 
ties and  problems,  in  fact,  that  Tampax 
eliminates  for  good  and  all! 


she's  a  leader! 

She  was  the  first  in  her  set  to  turn  to 
Tampax.  Nobody  urged  her,  nobody  ad- 
vised her — she  made  up  her  own  mind 
from  an  ad  such  as  this.  Every  Tampax 
advantage  seemed  to  her  logical,  true — 
and  desirable.  The  way  it  ends  disposal 
problems.  The  fact  it's  invisible  and  unfelt 
when  in  place.  Even  the  pleasant  discovery 
that  you  can  wear  it  in  your  shower  or 
your  tub.  (And  many  women  do!) 


she's  a  Tampax  user! 

She  wouldn't  go  back  to  "all  that  other  rig- 
marole" (as  she  puts  it)  for  the  world.  As 
she  tucks  a  Tampax  package  in  a  corner  of 
her  suitcase,  or  puts  a  few  spares  in  her 
purse,  she's  even  grateful  for  the  small  size 
and  inconspicuousness  of  Tampax.  You 
can  get  your  choice  of  3  absorbencies  of 
Tampax  (Regular,  Super,  Junior)  at  any 
drug  or  notion  counter.  Why  not  do  it 
this  very  month.?  Tampax  Incorporated, 
Palmer,  Massachusetts. 


OCTOBER,  1955 


X  W  MIMiROR 

N.Y.,  N.J.,  Conn.  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


VOL.  44,  NO.  5 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  West  Coast  Editor 


features  in  full  color 


He  Loves  a  Lassie  (Tommy  Rettig) by  Mrs.  Rosemary  Rettig  *2 

Tennessee's  Partners  (Tennessee  Ernie  Ford) by  Bud  Goode  44 

A  Full  Life  (Rosemary  DeCamp) by  Fredda  Balling  48 

Ethel  And  Albert  (Peg  Lynch  and  Alan  Bunce) by  Martin  Cohen  50 


your  local  station 


A  Man  and  His  Dreams  (WCBS) 4 

She's  Shooting  for  Stardom  ( WPTZ-TV,  WPFH-TV) 8 

Fun  for  All  (CBS-TV) 12 

Glamour   Girl  of   Sports    (WMGM) 16 

your  special  services 

Steve  Allen's  Turntable 1^ 

New  Designs  for  Living  (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 14 

Information  Booth 1° 

Dress  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 20 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings) 72 

TV  Program  Highlights '^4 

Daytime  Diary ^2 

Cover  portrait  of  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  by  Gabor  Rona  of  CBS 


.«'". 


people  on  the  air 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  6 

Born  To  Be  an  Actor  (John  Baragrey) by  Ernst  Jacobi  27 

Daddy's  Wife— At  Home  (Jean  Hagen) by  Betty  Mills  30 

Something  for  Mother  (Steve  Lawrence) by  Ed  Meyerson  32 

Dream  Town  (Marion  Randall) by  Philip  Chapman  34 

Garry's  Golden  Rule  (Garry  Moore) by  Warren  Cromwell  36 

Everything's  Rosie  (Rosemary  Clooney) by  Martha  Buckley  38 

Win  a  Visit  with  a  Star   (an  exciting  new  contest  with  a  visit  with 

Bert  Parks  or  Lawrence  Welk  as  first  prize) 40 

Who's  Who  on  Monitor 54 

The  Gift  of  Happiness  (Arlene  Francis) by  Helen  Bolstad  58 

The  Second  Mrs.  Burton    (picture  story  from  the  popular  daytime 

drama)  60 

This  Is  Kathy  Godfrey by  Gladys  Hall  64 


W>' 


buy  your  November  copy  early     •     on  sale  October  6 


PUBLISHED    MONTHLY  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc.,  New 

EXECUTIVE,     ADVERTISING     AND     EDITORIAL     OFFICES    at 

•2orj  East  42nd  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y.  Editorial  Branch 
Oflicos:  321  South  Beverly  Drive.  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.,  and 
•221  North  La  Salle  Street,  Chicago,  111.  Irving  S.  Manheimcr, 
President;  Lee  Andrews,  Vice  President;  Meyer  Dworkln, 
Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Advertising  oillces  also  in  Chicago 
and    San    Francisco.  .,     „  ^    „ 

SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and  Posses- 
sions and  Canadn.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other  countries. 
CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When  pos- 
sible please  furnish  stencil-impression  address  from  a  re- 
cent issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only  if  you  send  us 
vour  old,  as  well  as  your  new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  considered 
but  publisher  cannot  be  responsible  for  loss  or  damage.  It 
Member    of    the    TRUE 


is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self-addressed 
return    envelopes    or    with    sufficient    return    postage    will    be 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp..  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17, 
N.    Y.     Irving    S.    Manheimer,    President;    Douglas    Lockhart, 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter.  June  28.  1954.  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York.  N.  Y..  under  the  Act  of  March  3. 
1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail.  P.  O.  Dept..  Ottawa, 
Ont  Canada.  Copyright  1955  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc. 
All  ritrhts  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention. 
All  rights  reserved  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion. Todos  derechos  reservados  sepnjn  La  Convenclon  Pan- 
Americana  de  Propledad  Literaria  y  Artistlca.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  h.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Company. 
STORY    Women's    Group 


She  had  adored  him  from  their 
first  meeting  and  he  seemed  no  less 
attraaed  to  her.  But,  recently,  his 
desire  turned  to  indifference,  and 
tonight  there  was  a  suggestion  of  a 
sneer  on  his  lips  as  he  wormed  out 
of  two  dates  they  had  planned  later 
in  the  week.  She  was  losing  him  .  .  . 
and  she  knew  it.  But,  for  what  reason 
she  hadn't  the  remotest  idea. 

What  she  didn't  realize  was  that 
you  may  have  good  looks,  nice 
clothes,  a  wonderful  personality,  but 


No  tooth  paste  kills  germs 
like  this . . .  instantly 

Listerine  Antiseptic  does  for  you 
what  no  tooth  paste  does.  Listerine 
instantly  kills  germs,  by  millions  — 
stops  bad  breath  instantly,  and 
usually  for  hours  on  end. 

Far  and  away  the  most  common 
cause  of  bad  breath  is  germs.  You 
see,  germs  cause  fermentation  of 
proteins,  which  are  always  present  in 
the  mouth.  And  research  shows  that 
your  breath  stays  sweeter  longer,  the  more 
you  reduce  germs  in  the  mouth. 

Tooth  paste  with  the  aid  of  a  tooth 
brush  is  an  effective  method  of  oral 


hygiene.  But  no  tooth  paste  gives 
you  the  proven  Listerine  Antiseptic 
method — banishing  bad  breath  with 
super-efficient  germ-killing  action. 

Listerine  Antiseptic  clinically  proved 
four  times  better  than  tooth  paste 

Is  it  any  wonder  Listerine  Antiseptic 
in  recent  clinical  tests  averaged  at 
least  four  times  more  effective  in 
stopping  bad  breath  odors  than  the 
chlorophyll  products  or  tooth  pastes 
it  was  tested  against?  With  proof  like 
this,  it's  easy  to  see  why  Listerine 
belongs  in  your  home.  Every  morning 
. . .  every  night . . ,  be- 
fore every  date,  make  it 
a  habit  to  use  Listerine, 
the  most  widely  used 
antiseptic  in  the  world. 


IISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC  STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  times  better  than  any  tooth  paste 


In  his  office  at  WCBS,  Bob  and  his  assistant  Charlotte  Lord 
discuss  latest  song  recordings — including  some  written  by  Bob. 


WCBS  star  Bob  Haymes'  varied  and 

eventful  life  has  been  sprinkled  with 

Stardust  and  shows  every  promise  of 

bigger  and  better  things  to  come 

By  ELLEN  TAUSSIG 


On  the  go  from  sunup  to  sundown,   Bob  has  found  his  own 
ways  and  places  to  relax.  Like  Bob  himself,  they're  unusual. 


He  and  accompanist  Sy  Mann  were  in  the  Cavalry 
at  the  same  time,  but  only  met  5  years  ago  at  WNEW, 


l| 


AMID  the  frantic  hustle  and  bustle  of  the  show- 
L  business  world  and  its  inhabitants,  it  is  re- 
freshing to  meet  someone  who  tries  and,  for  the 
most  part,  succeeds  in  leading  a  comparatively 
normal,  well-balanced  life.  Such  a  person  is  Bob 
Haymes — singer,  actor,  composer  and  all-around 
good  fellow  who  for  half  his  young  life  has  been 
active  in  all  phases  of  the  entertainment  fraternity. 

Currently,  Bob  entertains  Station  WCBS  listeners 
twice  daily  with  The  Boh  Haymes  Show,  from  8: 15 
to  9  A.M.,  and  Melody  In  The  Night,  from  10  to  11 
P.M.  On  the  morning  show,  the  mood  is  bright  and 
breezy  as  Bob  spins  records,  gives  the  time  and 
weather,  sings  a  few  songs,  and  chats  with  his 
gifted  accompanist,  Sy  Mann.  On  his  evening  show, 
Bob  sets  a  quieter,  mellower  pace  with  soothing 
instrumental  and  vocal  recordings. 

Though  young  in  years.  Bob  has  had  extensive 
experience  in  movies,  night  clubs,  on  Broadway  and 
in  radio  and  TV.  During  his  thirty-two  eventful 
years,  he  has  also  managed  to  see  a  goodly  part 
of  the  world,  and  says,  "I  never  like  to  get  in  a  rut." 

Born  in  White  Plains,  New  York,  Bob  was  two 
when  he  and  his  mother  and  brother  Dick  moved 
to  Paris.  Bob's  mother,  formerly  a  concert  singer, 
had  entered  women's  fashions  and  soon  became 
one  of  Paris'  leading  couturieres.  Bob  received  his 
early  education  in  France  and  Switzerland,  and 
spent  some  time  in  England.  Returning  to  this 
continent,  he  finished  his  education  at  Loyola  ; 
School  in  Montreal.  Then,  at  seventeen,  he  set  out 
to  become  a  singer. 

Having  been  coached  in  singing  by  his  mother, 
Bob   landed   a   job   with   Carl   Hoff's   orchestra   inlj 
Armonk,   New   York.     In   the   next   few   years,   hell 
appeared  throughout  the  country,  with  Bob  Chester,     ' 
Orrin    Tucker,    George    Hall    and    Freddie    Martin. 
During  his  singing  stint  with  Freddie  Martin  at  the  i  ■ 
Cocoanut  Grove   in  Los  Angeles,   Bob   was   asked  1 
to  make  a  screen  test  for  Columbia  Pictures.    The 
result:   leading  roles  in  some  25  movies,  including 
"Over  21"  with  Irene  Dunne,  and  "Cover  Girl,"  with 
Rita  Hayworth.    At  the  same  time.  Bob  carved  his 
niche  in  radio  circles,  starring  on  his  own  network 
show,  Sunday  Serenade,  and  Sealtest  Village  Store. 

The  Army  interrupted  Bob's  career  in  1942,  and 


After   getting    his    pilot's    license   a    year   ago,    Bob 
bought  a  Swift,  which  he  keeps  at  Teterboro  Airport. 


he  became  a  member  of  the  U.S.  Cavalry.  After  a 
year  and  a  half,  however,  an  injury  landed  him  in 
the  hospital,  and  he  was  later  discharged. 

Moving  to  New  York,  Bob  took  a  turn  on  Broad- 
way, appearing  with  Grace  and  Paul  Hartman  in 
"Angel  in  the  Wings."  Next,  he  turned  his  talents 
to  writing — composing  songs,  and  writing  special 
material  for  stars  such  as  Eddie  Cantor,  Vic  Da- 
mone,  Eileen  Barton,  and  his  brother  Dick.  In 
1949.  Bob  briefly  resumed  his  night-club  singing, 
then  in  1950  returned  to  radio  with  a  series  of  pro- 
grams for  Station  WNEW  before  joining  WCBS. 

Nowadays,  Bob  pursues  a  multiplicity  of  inter- 
ests. In  addition  to  his  radio  shows,  he  has  been 
writing  the  Julius  La  Rosa  Show  seen  on  CBS-TV, 
and  continues  with  his  song-writing.  Two  of  his 
newest  songs,  "Pass  It  On"  and  "Let's  Stay  Home 
Tonight,"  have  been  recorded  by  La  Rosa. 

Although  he  works  hard  and  steadily  throughout 
the  week.  Bob  insists  on  time  off  for  the  weekend. 
A  natural  athlete  and  lover  of  the  wide-open  spaces. 
Bob  feels  "You  really  aren't  living  unless  you're 
outdoors."  Two  other  loves  are  his  Model  A  Ford 
and  flying.  A  good  mechanic,  Bob  always  had  a 
hankering  to  take  an  old  car  and  fix  it  up  and,  since 
last  February,  he's  been  doing  just  that  with  his 
Ford.  Paradoxically,  Bob  also  owns  his  own  plane 
— which  he  calls  Tom  Swift — and  likes  to  get  up 
into  the  wild  blue  yonder  once  or  twice  a  week. 
On  vacations,  Bob  flies  himself  down  to  the  Carib- 
bean, where  he  has  part -ownership  in  a  boat  and 
goes  fishing  and  skin  diving.  And,  although  he  has 
a  bachelor  apartment  in  the  city,  he  says,  "If  I 
didn't  have  to  get  up  so  early  in  the  morning,  I'd 
certainly  have  a  home  in  the  country." 

Although  he  has  spent  most  of  his  life  in  the 
show-business  spotlight,  Bob  says  he  would  even- 
tually like  to  concentrate  on  writing  songs  and 
shows — because  it  comes  easily  to  him,  and  because 
he  feels  it  isn't  as  nerve-racking.  This  is  but  one 
of  Bob's  many  dreams,  which  include  a  home  of  his 
own,  more  travel,  more  songs  to  be  written.  And,  no 
matter  what  Bob  wants,  his  eagerness,  drive  and 
all-around  ability  seem  certain  to  gain  for  him  his 
goal,  for  he  is  one  young  man  who  knows  where 
he's  been,  where  he  is — and  where  he  is  going. 


/ 


I 


A  capable  pianist  and  organist,  Bob  taught  hinnself  to  play 
while  he  was  singing  with  orchestras  throughout  the  country. 


Bob's  latest  pride  and  joy  is  his  Model  A  Ford  which  (with 
apologies  to  the  new  Thunderbird)  he  calls  his  Lightningbird. 


WHAT'S  NEW 

FROM  COAST  TO 


•  By  Jill  Warren 


Funsters    Dave   Willock   and    Cliff   Arquet+e    preach 
Do-It -Your  self,  will   practice   it   now  on   Saturdays. 


Newlyweds   Martha   Wright   and    Mike   Manuche,   a 
New  York  restaurateur,  enjoy  dinner  at  The  Harwyn. 


Birds  fly  in  a   nnobile  in  the  nursery  Morton  and   Lois 
Hunt   decorated    for   their   fledgling,    Jeffrey    Marcus. 


THE  FALL  TV  season  is  about  to  begin,  and  there  are 
many  new  and  interesting  shows  on  the  1955-56 
network  schedules. 

NBC:  More  than  seventy-five  mammoth  productions 
have  been  set  for  NBC-TV's  "Spectacular"  series 
this  year,  embracing  the  entire  field  of  entertainment. 
"The  Skin  Of  Our  Teeth,"  with  Mary  Martin  and 
Helen  Hayes,  will  be  presented  September  11,  followed 
by  a  musical  version  of  "Our  Town"  on  Monday  night, 
September  19.  Frank  Sinatra  stars  in  the  Thornton 
Wilder  classic,  in  the  role  of  the  narrator,  and  Eva 
Marie  Saint  will  play  the  girl.   This  will  be  her 
first  singing  role. 

Max  Liebman's  first  spectacular  this  season  will  be 
a  musical  based  on  Heidi,  to  be  presented  Saturday 
night,  October  1.   Starring  in  the  immortal  children's 
story  will  be  Ezio  Pinza,  English  comedienne 
Jeannie  Carson,   Dennis  Day  and  Pinky  Lee. 

Perry  Como  tees  off  his  new  Saturday -night,  hour- 
long  show  on  September  17.    It  will  feature  a  rotating 
list  of  guest  stars,  and  plenty  of  music. 

Variety  will  be  the  word  on  Tuesday  nights,  with 
Milton  Berle  and  Martha  Raye  alternating  most  weeks. 
Also  set  for  the  same  Tuesday-evening  time  during 
the  season  are  Bob  Hope — who  is  to  do  six  shows — and 
Dinah  Shore — who  has  been  signed  for  two. 

Do-It-Yourselj,  which  was  a  popular  Sunday-night 
half -hour  on  NBC -TV  this  past  summer,  has  been 
given  a  fall  daytime  berth  on  Saturdays,  beginning 
September  24.    Cliflf  Arquette  and  Dave  Willock 
are  co-starred,  and  the  comedian-hobbyists  will 
demonstrate  how  to  make  everything  from  a  jungle  gym 
to  a  shower  curtain,  with  laughs  tossed  in  with  the 
instructions.    {Continued   on   'page   22) 


DOCTORS   PROSfE  a  one-minute  massage  with 


PALMOUVE  SOAP  CAN  GIVE  YOU  A 

GETS  HIDDEN  DIRT  THAT  ORDINARY  CLEANSING  METHODS  MISS  ! 


/ 


I 


1. 


Dirt  left  on  face  after 
ordinary  cleansing! 

Rub  your  face  hard  with  a 
cotton  pad  after  ordinary 
casual  cleansing  with  any 
soap  or  cold  cream.  You'll 
see  that  you  didn't 
remove  deep-down  dirt 
and  make-up.  "Ordinary' 
clean"  is  just 
superficially  clean 


'f^^' 


i 


2. 


Beautifully  clean 
after  60-second 
Palmolive  facial! 

Rub  your  face  the  same 
way  after  60-second 
massage  with  Palmolive. 
Pad  is  still  snowy-white! 
"Palmolive-clean"  is  deep- 
down  clean.  Your  skin  is 
free  of  clinging  dirt  that 
casual  cleansing  misses. 


(^aSfiflfcjtfi^i 


CAN   WORK  SO  THOROUGHLY 
YET   SO   GENTLY!    PALMOLIVE   BEAUTY   CARE  CLEANS 
CLEANER,   CLEANS   DEEPER,   WITHOUT   IRRITATION! 

No  matter  what  your  age  or  type  of  skin,  doctors  have  proved 
that  PalmoHve  beauty  care  can  give  you  a  cleaner,  fresher  complexion 
the  very  first  time  you  use  it!  That's  because  Palmolive  care  gets 
your  skin  deep-down  clean  by  removing  the  hidden,  clinging  dirt 
that  casual  methods  miss. 

Here's  the  easy  method: 
Just  massage  your  face  with  Palmolive's  rich,  gentle  lather  for  60 
seconds,  morning  and  night.  Rinse  and  pat  dry.  It's  that  simple! 
But  remember  .  .  .  only  a  soap  that  is  truly  mild  can  cleanse 
thoroughly  without  leaving  your  face  feeling  drawn  and 
uncomfortable.  And  Palmolive's  mildness  lets  you  massage  a  fuU 
minute  without  irritation. 

Try  mild  Palmolive  Soap  today.  In  just  60  seconds,  you'll  be  on 
your  way  toward  new  complexion  beauty! 

DOCTORS    PROVE   PALMOLIVE'S   BEAUTY   RESULTS! 


iJ 


She's  shooting  for  Stardom 


Philadelphia  beauty  Shirley  Forrest 
has  parlayed  hard  work  and  talent 
into  an  increasingly  successful  career 


.fl/fj^- 


Shirley  lives  of  home  with  her  parents,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Harry 
Feldman.  They  had  once  wanted  Shirley  to  be  a  teacher,  but 
ore  now  very  happy  and  proud  of  their  daughter's  success. 


Shirley  (with   Louis,  WPTZ's  hair  stylist)   practices  what  she 
preaches,  finds  her  work  inspiring  because  it  helps  so  many. 


EVERY  career-minded  person  has  his  formula  for 
success,  and  lovely  Shirley  Forrest  is  no  exception. 
Shirley  has  mixed  the  tangible— hard  work — with  a 
bit  of  the  intangible — luck — to  become  a  star  on  two 
TV  stations,  with  a  dual  career  in  fashion  and 
singing.  At  Station  WPTZ,  Philadelphia,  Shirley  pre- 
sides over  Charm  Headquarters,  Saturdays  and 
Sundays  at  12:15  P.M.  Tuesdays  at  8:30  P.M.,  she 
presents  Beauty  And  Fashions  on  WPFH-TV,  Wilm- 
ington, Delaware.  Both  programs  are  designed  to 
educate  women  of  all  ages  in  the  ways  of  charm,  beauty 
and  fashions.  Guests  include  famous  models,  fashion 
coordinators,  show-business  stars,  as  well  as  viewers. 
Shirley  proves  herself  an  expert  in  the  field,  too,  as 
with  ease  and  grace  she  demonstrates  beauty  tech- 
niques and  comments  on  fashions.  .  .  .  The  other  half 
of  Shirley's  career,  operatic  singing,  is  displayed  on 
WPFH-TV,  Sunday  evenings  at  7:30,  on  Opera 
Workshop,  which  features  light  and  grand  opera. 
Shirley  femcees  the  program  and  often  takes  a  lead 
role.  ...  A  native  of  Philadelphia,  Shirley  showed 
a  love  for  music  at  an  early  age.   She  began  taking 
singing  lessons  her  senior  year  in  high  school,  and 
paid  for  them  by  modeling.  She  also  worked  her  way 
through  the  University  of  Pennsylvania — where  she 
majored  in  German — doing  TV  work,  modeling,  and 
lecturing  at  the  Philadelphia  Modeling  School.  Her 
first  TV  break  came  in  1951  as  a  result  of  placing 
in  the  finals  of  the  Miss  Philadelphia  Contest. 
Still  only  a  sophomore  in  college,  Shirley  became 
"The  Magic  Lady"  on  WFIL's  Let's  Have  Fun  At  The 
Zoo.  Highlighting  her  senior  year  was  an  exciting 
trip  to  Jamaica  to  narrate  and  star  in  the  featurette 
film,  "Dream  Island."    Since  graduation,  Shirley  has 
plunged  full  speed  ahead  with  her  career.  For 
her  beauty  and  fashion  shows  there  are  models  to 
audition  and  train,  guests  to  interview,  mail 
to  answer,  and  numerous  rehearsals.   Then  there  are 
singing  lessons  in  New  York,  personal  appearances  at 
women's  clubs  and  fashion  shows.  "I  love  my  work," 
Shirley  says  with  eagerness,  "and  have  the  incentive 
to  try  to  go  further  in  my  two  careers."   Then  she 
adds,   with   a   twinkle,    "Marriage    and    children,   of 
course,  are  important,  too,  but  I  still  have  plenty 
of  time."  Judging  performances  past  and  present, 
it  seems  likely  that,  whatever  Shirley  Forrest 
wants,  she  will  get — and  justly  deserve. 


New  lanolin  shampoo 
adds  rich  sparkle 
...can't  dry  hair! 

Get  ready  for  the  softest,  silkiest,  most  sparkly  hair  of  your 
life!  For  the  instant  this  new  double-rich  lanolin  shampoo 
goes  into  action,  it  steirts  enriching  your  hair  with  a 
beauty  you  have  never  witnessed  before! 


What  manageability!  What  a  joy  to  set!  Instead  of  after-shampoo 
dryness,  you  discover  a  new  dream-like  softness  that  only  this 
"twice-as-rich"  lanolin  shampoo  can  bring!  Your  waves  ripple 
into  place  .  .  .  luscious  deep  waves  .  .  .  softer,  lovelier  than  you 
ever  hoped  they'd  be! 


You'll  enjoy  the  great  clouds  of 
fleecy  lather  you  get  with  this  new 
double-rich  lanolin  shampoo.  Won- 
derful feeling,  luxurious  lather  that 
feels  twice  as  rich,  and  is  twice  as 
rich.  Busy  lather  that  actually 
polishes  your  hair — brilliantly.  A 
sensational  new  Helene  Curtis 
beauty  discovery! 


When  your  hair  sparkles,  you  do! 
Make  your  hair  your  loveliest  feature 
.  .  .  soft  as  summer  clouds  and  shim- 
mering like  satin  in  moonlight — with 
this  new  shampoo  miracle — Helene 
Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo. 
Sounds  wonderful?  It  is!  Try  it  and 
you'll  agree.  29j^,  59p  and  $1, 
everywhere! 


*"^^ 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


HELLO  again  from  Hollywood,  where 
we're  just  winding  up  the  final  scenes 
on  "The  Benny  Goodman  Story." 
Working  a  double  schedule — making  a 
movie  in  the  daytime  and  doing  television 
at  night — I'm  about  ready  for  a  vacation. 
But  before  taking  off  for  who-knows- 
where,  I've  got  some  interesting  record 
news. 

"Fill  Your  Home  with  Music"  is  Decca's 
idea  to  start  off  the  fall  season,  and  a  fine 
idea  it  is.  They  have  gathered  together 
a  terrific  group  of  special  album  "releases, 
with  Bing  Crosby  heading  the  list.  "Old 
Masters"  is  the  name  of  the  Crosby  set, 
and  it's  a  wonderful  follow-up  to  last 
year's  "Bing"  album.  On  this  one  there 
are  thirty-six  songs  done  by  the  Groaner 
through  the  years,  and  they  are  all  the 
original  master  recordings.  Bing  has  in- 
cluded ballads,  rhythm  songs  and  special 
material — such  tunes  as  "These  Foolish 
Things,"  "Shoe  Shine  Boy,"  "And  the  An- 
gels Sing,"  "Mr.  Crosby  and  Mr.  Mercer." 

Sammy  Davis,  Jr.  singing  "Just  for 
Lovers"  is  also  included  in  Decca's  big 
album  special.  Sammy  does  a  wonderful 
job  on  twelve  romantic  songs — such  as 
"Wait  Till  You  See  Her,"  "Come  Rain  or 
Come  Shine,"  "The  Thrill  Is  Gone."  The 
arrangements  are  great,  and  so  is  the  band, 
conducted  by  Sy  Oliver. 

"Ethel  Merman  Memories"  is  the  title 
of  another  big  Decca  album,  with  Ethel 
belting  out  the  great  tunes  of  the  Gay 
Nineties  and  the  Roaring  Twenties.  "Ta- 
rara  Boom  De  Ay,"  "Listen  to  the  Mock- 
ing Bird,"  "Memories,"  "Frankie  and 
Johnny,"  and  many  others  are  given  the 
Merman  treatment.  The  music  was  ar- 
ranged and  conducted  by  Jay  Blackton, 
with  The  Mitchell  Boys  Choir  and  The 
Old  Timers  Quartet. 

I'm  very  pleased  that  Decca  has  also 
included  "Steve  Allen's  All-Star  Jazz  Con- 
cert" in  this  special  album  release.  This 
set  was  actually  recorded  during  a  con- 
cert at  Manhattan  Center  in  New  York 
City  in  May,  1954.  It  has  been  done  up  in 
two  volumes,  and  features  such  talented 
jazz  stars  as  Yank  Lawson,  Bobby  Haggart, 
Billy  Butterfield,  Ray  McKinley  and  Syl- 
via Sims.  The  tunes  are  all  standards  such 
as  "Big  Noise  from  Winnetka,"  "Sweet 
Georgia  Brown,"  "That's  A-Plenty,"  and 
"Basin   Street." 

Woody  Herman  has  done  up  a  good 
record  of  "Love  Is  a  Many-Splendored 
Thing"  and  "The  House  of  Bamboo."  Both 
tunes  are  theme  songs  from  two  new 
movies  of  the  same  titles.    (Capitol) 

"Young  Ideas"  is  Gordon  Jenkins'  latest, 
with  a  great  vocal  chorus  by  Stuart  Fos- 
j  ter.  The  tune  is  a  beautiful  ballad  which 
y  you  may  have  heard  introduced  on  NBC- 
^  TV's  "The  King  and  Mrs.  Candle"  produc- 
tion on  August  22.  The  reverse  side  finds 
Jenkins'  orchestra  and  vocal  chorus  play- 
ing   and     singing    a    new    rhythm    tune, 


"Goodnight,  Sweet  Dreams,"  which  is  very 
reminiscent  of  "Goodnight,  Irene." 

Lillian  Briggs  is  an  exciting  new  singer 
just  signed  by  Epic  Records.  For  her  first 
release  she  sings  "I  Want  You  To  Be  My 
Baby"  and  "Don't  Stay  Away  Too  Long," 
with  O.  B.  Massingill's  orchestra.  Lillian's 
style  is  a  little  like  Kay  Starr's  and,  in- 
cidentally, she  is  also  a  fine  trombonist. 

The  "King  of  the  Mambo,"  Perez  Prado, 
has  recorded  a  new  album  called  "The 
Voo  Doo  Suite."  It's  a  Prado  composition, 
done  in  four  movements,  and  quite  un- 
usual, to  say  the  least.  (Victor) 

Dean  Martin  may  be  feudin'  and  fightin' 
with  his  partner,  Jerry  Lewis,  but  he  cer- 
tainly sounds  relaxed  on  his  new  album, 
"Carolina  in  the  Mornin'."  Accompanied 
by  Dick  Stabile  and  His  Orchestra,  Dean 
croons  a  whole  slew  of  Southern-type 
standards,  including  "Mississippi  Mud," 
"Basin  Street  Blues,"  "Waiting  for  the 
Robert  E.  Lee,"  and  others.   (Capitol)  ~ 

Dean  has  also  waxed  a  cute  duet  with 
the  French  chantoosie.  Line  Renaud, 
called  "Relax-Ay-Voo,"  and  it  could  be  a 
big  hit.  On  the  backing.  Line  and  Dean 
revive  the  popular  oldie,  "Two  Sleepy 
People."  Dick  Stabile's  orchestra  provides 
the  music  on  this,  too.  (Capitol) 

"Harp  Magic"  is  the  name  of  a  new  al- 
bum by  Robert  Maxwell,  one  of  the  finest 
harpists  in  the  country.  Accompanied  by 
a  large  orchestra.  Maxwell  plays  such 
lovely  standards  as  "Smoke  Gets  in  Your 
Eyes,"  "Bewitched,  Bothered  and  Be- 
wildered," "Prelude  to  a  Star,"  and  "In  a 
Sentimental  Mood."  He  also  does  a  mag- 
nificent solo  of  "Clair  de  Lune."  (M-G-M) 

Capitol  has  produced  a  big,  new  album 
of  "Oklahoma!"  taken  directly  from  the 
soundtrack    of    the    about-to-be-released 


movie.  It  features  the  film's  stars — Gordon 
MacRae,  Gloria  Grahame,  Shirley  Jones, 
Gene  Nelson  and  Charlotte  Greenwood — 
singing  the  Rodgers-Hammerstein  score. 

"Satch  Plays  Fats"  is  a  new  Columbia 
album.  Translated,  it  means  Louis  Arm- 
strong and  his  orchestra  play  some  of  the 
tunes  written  by  his  late  friend,  the  tal- 
ented Fats  Waller.  In  his  inimitable  style, 
Satchmo  does  such  wonderful  oldies  as 
"Honeysuckle  Rose,"  "Keepin'  Out  of  Mis- 
chief Now,"  "Ain't  Misbehavin',"  "All  That 
Meat  and  No  Potatoes." 

Don  Cornell's  record  of  "The  Bible  Tells 
Me  So"  has  been  a  big  smash,  and  Kay 
Armen  hopes  to  win  honors  with  her  ver- 
sion of  the  same  song — which,  incidentally, 
was  written  by  Dale  Evans  (Mrs.  Roy 
Rogers).  Kay  gives  it  the  beat  interpreta- 
tion, complete  with  hand-clapping  back- 
ground. On  the  reverse  she  sings  a  re- 
ligious ballad,  "I  Wonder  When  We'll  Ever 
Know"  (The  Wonder  of  it  All).  Kay  gets 
good  support  from  Joe  Lipman's  orchestra 
and  the  Ray  Charles  Singers.  (M-G-M) 

"Tonight  at  Midnight"  is  a  new  instru- 
mental album  of  all  standards,  with  fine 
arrangements  by  Don  Costa.  The  piano 
solos  are  by  a  fellow  named  Steve  Allen. 
(Coral) 

Victor  is  releasing  a  fabulous  collector's 
special  in  "The  Glenn  Miller  Army  Air 
Force  Band."  They  have  done  up  five  12- 
inch  LP's  in  one  deluxe  package,  all  taken 
from  newly-found  tape  recordings  the  late 
Miller  made  while  he  was  in  service. 
You'll  feel  nostalgic  at  such  tunes  as  "G.I. 
Jive,"  "In  the  Mood,"  "Suddenly  It's 
Spring,"  "Begin  the  Beguine,"  and  dozens 
of  others  recorded  by  Miller's  big  band. 

That  does  it  for  now.  I'll  be  seeing  you 
again  next  month  from  New  York. 


With  her  husband  Paul  Weston  providing  the  music,  Jo  Stafford  scores 
another  big  hit  with  "Ain't  Cha-Cha  Coming  Out  Tonight."  (Columbia) 


Only  Bobbi  is  specially  designed  to  give  the  softly  feminine  wave  necessary 
for  this  new  "Blithe  Spirit"  hairstyle.  No  nightly  settings  are  needed. 


Soft,  natural  from  the  start  .  .  .  that's   the  "Soft  Talk" 
hairstyle  after  a  Bobbi.  And  Bobbi  is  so  simple  to  give! 


Bobbi's  soft  curls  make  a  natural,  informal  wave 
like  this  possible.  A  Bobbi  always  gives  you  care- 
free curls  as  in  this  winsome  "Capuler"  hairdo. 


NEVER    TIGHT,   NEVER    FUSSY 

Softly  feminine  hairstyles  like  these  are 

yours  with  a  Bobbi-the  special  pin-curl 

permanent  for  soft,  natural  curls 

If  you  dread  most  permanents  because  you  definitely  don't  want  tight, 
fussy  curls,  Bobbi  is  just  right  for  you.  This  easy  pin-curl  permanent  is 
specially  designed  for  today's  newest  softly  feminine  hairstyles. 

Bobbi  gives  a  curl  where  you  want  it,  the  way  you  want  it  —  always 
soft,  natural,  and  vastly  becoming!  It  has  the  beauty,  the  body,  the  soft, 
lovely  look  of  naturally  wavy  hair. 

You  pin-curl  your  hair  just  once.  Apply  Bobbi's  special  Creme  Oil 
Lotion.  A  little  later  rinse  hair  with  water.  Let  dry,  brush  out... imme- 
diately you'll  be  happy  with  your  hair.  And  the  soft,  natural  look  lasts  week 
after  week.   If  you  like   softly    feminine   hairstyles,  you'll  love   a   Bobbi. 

New  20-Page  Hairstyle  Booklet!  Colorful  collection  of  new  softly  feminine  hairstyles. 
Easy-to-follow  setting  instructions.  Hints!  Tips!  Send  now  for  "SeN/t-Vourse/f  Hairstyles." 
Your  name,  address,  10c  in  coin  to:  Bobbi,  Box  3600,  Merchandise  Mart,  Chicago,  III. 


Bobbi  is  made  especially  to  give  young,  free  and 

easy  hairstyles  like  this  "Confection"  hairdo.  And       Just  simple  pin-curls  and  Bobbi.  No  separate  neutralizer,  no  curlers,  no  resetdng. 

the  curl  stays  in— no  matter  what  the  weather.  Everything  you  need— New  Creme  Oil  Lotion,  special  bobby  pins.  51-50  plus  tax. 


Pantomime  Quiz  provides  performers  and  viewers  alike  with  unlimited  merriment 


FUN 

for 
All 


On  and  behind  the  scenes:  Above,  guest  Rudy  Vollee  leaps  into  action  and  acts  out  a  "stumper"  for  his  team  while  the 
opposing  team  beams  as  the  seconds  fly  by.  Below,  Rudy  joins  producer-emcee  Mike  Stokey  (seated  at  table)  and  the 
regulor  panel  members  (left  to  right,  around  Rudy  and  Mike),  Hans  Conried,  Dorothy  hiart,  Jackie  Coogan,  Carol 
Honey,  Robert  Clary  and  Rocky  Graziano,  in  a  pre-show  discussion.  Says  Mike,  perched  cozily  beside  a  CBS-TV  camera: 
"The  personalities  who  moke  up  our  teams  hove  os  much  fun  as  the  home  audience,  ond  often  ask  if  they  can  come  back!" 


T 

^       At  lunch  with  Mrs.  and  Mr.   Rudy  Vallee,  Mike  asks  Rudy  to 

guest  on  the  show.  Mike  and  his  staff  spend  o  full  week — lining 

up  talent,  selecting  stumpers,   handling  endless  show  details. 
12 


As  a  student  at  Los  Angeles  City  College, 
Louisiana-born  Mike  Stokey  was  active  in  the 
dramatic  club.    One  of  the  group's  favorite 
pastimes  during  rehearsal  breaks  was  playing  cha- 
rades. Always  a  fellow  with  a  headful  of  good  ideas, 
Mike  decided  the  game  would  be  a  natural  for 
television  and  presented  his  suggestion  to  a  Holly- 
wood station.  They  agreed  with  Mike  and,  in  Novem- 
ber, 1947,  Pantomime  Quiz  was  born.  Today  one 
of  the  oldest  and  most  popular  TV  shows,  Pantomime 
Quiz  and  creator  Stokey  can  boast  a  fine  record. 
In  1949,  the  show  won  an  "Emmy"  as  TV's  most 
popular  program,  and  Mike  was  voted  TV's  Out- 
standing Personality.  The  next  year,  Mike  was  voted 
TV's  Favorite  Quizmaster  and  his  brainchild  was 
named  the  Best  Live  Show.  ...  No  newcomer  to  show 
business,  Mike  has  spent  most  of  his  career — except 
for  four  years  in  the  Air  Force — announcing, 
writing,  directing  and  producing  radio  and  TV  shows. 
Pantomime  Quiz — seen  on  CBS-TV,  Fridays  at 
8  P.M.  EDT — is,  of  course,  his  all-time  favorite  and 
proves  what  Mike  has  always  said — that  "actors 
like  to  act  for  fun,  as  well  as  money." 


INTRODUCING  NEW 


100%  NON-ALKALINE! 

Will  not  dry  or  devitalize  hair! 


Agtees  M'fh  ihe. 
J-feoffhy,  NafuKff, 
Non-Alka/fne  Condihon 
ofSco/p  ondHaH 


As  Genf/e  ondMi/c/ 
OS  o  Shampoo  con  6e/ 


Oi/et  Twice.  OS  much 
^t(/our  mofiBy  QS  ofhot  (^     ^ 
Leading  ShompoosI   V^\^-  VH) 


m 


Cu//s  ore.  Sofiet/ 

Sosiet  fo  Se/-/ 

S/oySe/- longer/ 


REGULAR  PRiCE  S9i 


YOURS  ONLY  59* 


WHILE 
OFFER  HOIDS 


We  offer  this  big  saving  because  we  know — once  you  fry 
PALMOLIVE  SOFT  SHAMPOO,  you'll  always  use  it.  Tell  your 
frien<Js'  Hurry!  Regular  89c  price  leven  that's  a  bargain) 
comes  back  when  Hmifed  Special  Offer  supply  is  gone. 


TODAY.. .GET  NEW  PALMOLIVE  SOFT  SHAMPOO! 


13 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


7327 — Crochet   roses   in    color   to    decorate 
this  unusual  doily.   They  stand  up  in  life- 
like form  against  their  lovely  background. 
"3-D"   doilies:    larger,   22   inches   in   No.   30 
mercerized  cotton;   smaller,  13  inches.  25^ 

584 — Protect  and  beautify  your  fine 
furniture!    Feathers  in  a  fan  shape  add 
interest  to  chair  or  buffet.    Use  No.  30 
crochet  cotton.    Directions  included.  25(# 

7046 — Sew  this  pretty  party  dress  with 
puffed  sleeves,  embroidery  icing.  Child's 
Sizes  2,  4,  6,  8,  10.    Pattern  pieces,  transfer 
of  embroidery.  State  size.  25^ 

7285 — Colorful  rickrack  and  simple  crochet 
stitches  make  this  pretty  cover  doll.  Keeps 
mixer   clean.    Pattern  pieces,  transfer   of 
embroidery,  directions.  Use  No.  30   crochet 
cotton,  rickrack.  25^ 


14 


7248 — He's  a  doll — he's  a  'Jama  Bag. 
The  children  pop  their  P.J.'s  into  the  slit 
in  front.    Bunny  snoozes  on  their  beds  till 
night-time.    Two  flat  pieces  plus  round 
stuffed  head.  Pattern  pieces,  transfer.  25^ 

667 — Crochet   this    shell-stitch    jumper   of 
knitting  worsted.    Wear  it   over   blouse  for 
daytime;  for  evening,  trim  with  metallic- 
thread-flowers.    Directions   for   crocheted 
jumper.  Sizes  12-14,  16-18  included.  25^ 

7392 — For  TV  relaxation — make  yourself 
ballet  and  boot  style  slippers.  Transfers,  pat- 
tern pieces,  directions.  Sizes  Small,  Medium, 
Large,  Extra-Large  included.  Use  velvet  or 
quilled  fabric,  trim  with  embroidery.  25^ 


Send  twenty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing.  Send  an  additional  25^  for  Needlecraft  Catalog. 


y 


^ 


m 


iH 


SMART 
!  GIRLS 

y^         NEVER 
GO 
OUTDOORS 
^WITHOUT  IT... 


1 1.' 


^, 


■^  *•<*'» 


-v<,- 


-fMw^  8^  spray  nef 

Going  places?  Keep  your  hair  in  place  the  spray  net  way.. .it's  such  a  joy! 


"'-. -'.-':^  4W( 


Now  There  Are  Two  Fabulous  Formulas 
New  SUPER  SOFT  SPRAY  NET,  without 
lacquer,  gives  hair  gentle  control. 

REGULAR  SPRAY  NET  for  more  elabo- 
rate styles,  harder-to-manage  hair. 


TM 


Whether  you're  working,  playing,  shopping  .  .  . 
we  can  take  one  worry  off  your  mind.  Your  hair! 
A  whisper  of  Helene  Curtis  spray  net  will 
keep  it  just  the  way  you  set  it .  .  .  soft,  natural, 
and  in  place  the  whole  day  through. 

For  Helene  Curtis  has  found  a  way  to  put 
"holding  quality"  into  a  hair  spray  without 
making  you  hate  the  feel  of  your  hair.   It's  the 
wonderful,  wonderful  spray  that  leaves  no 
stickiness  whatsoever. 

A  pretty  hair-do  wiU  always  pick  you  out  of 
the  crowd.  Smart  girls  never  go  outdoors 
without  Helene  Curtis  spray  net— it's 
America's  favorite  hair  spray  because  it  really 
is  the  best ...  in  every  way. 

3  SIZES:  New  69i  size.  Large  $1.25,  Giant  $1.89— all  plus  tax 

anlu  Hel&ne  Curtis  Spmif  Net  contains  spray-on  Icunolim.  lotion 


When  You're  Late  For  A  Date... 

Just  set  your  pin  curls  with 
Helene  Curtis  spray  net. 
They'll  dry  in  minutes! 


NEW     ^^ 

69< 

^: 

SIZE 

tq»ray 
net- 

Now  you  can  try  SPRAY  NET 

for   only    b9i.    Perfect    for 

purse,    travel,    bathroom 

cabinet. 

15 


Left:  Ward  Wilson,  Jim  Gordon,  Sussie  and  Marty  Glick- 
man  give  out  with  baseball  facts,  statistics  and  fenninistics. 
Below:  Marty,  Ward  and  Gussie  join  Vince  Scully,  who 
does  the  play-by-play  accounts  of  Brooklyn  Dodger  games. 


"Gorgeous  Gussie"  Moran, 

tennis  star  turned  sportscaster,  proves 

she's  still  the  most  popular 


CLAMOUR  GIRL  OF  SPORTS 


T 
V 
R 

16 


HAVING  stood  the  tennis  world  on  its  collective  ear  by 
wearing  lace  panties  on  the  staid  Wimbledon  courts, 
Gorgeous  Gussie  Moran  this  year  did  likewise  to  the 
baseball  world  and  inspired  a  Brooklyn  bard  to  write:  "Baseball 
was  a  matter  of  facts/  And  figures  and  statistics;/  Now  that 
Moran  is  in  the  clan/  It  is  naught  but  feministics."  .  .  .  The 
kidding  is  good-natured  for,  as  distaff  member  of  Warm  Up 
Time  and  Sports  Extra — the  sports  commentaries  that  precede 
and  follow  the  Brooklyn  Dodger  baseball  games  on  New 
York's  Station  WMGM— Gussie  has  won  the  hearts  of  the  Flat- 
bush  Chowder  and  Marching  Organization.  The  Brooklyn 
Dodger  Sym-phony  blares  out  her  charms  and  Hilda  Chester 
rings  out  praises  of  Moran  on  her  famed  cowbell.  .  .  . 
Gussie  was  co-starring  on  a  Los  Angeles  sports  show  when 
WMGM  asked  her  to  join  Marty  Glickman,  Ward  Wilson 
and  Jim  Gordon  on  the  two  programs.  She  went  to  Vero  Beach 
for  spring  training,  studied  "The  Official  Encyclopedia  of 
Baseball,"  committed  back  copies  of  "The  Sporting  News" 
to  memory.  Today,  she  spouts  batting  averages  with  the  best 
of  them  and  also  injects  such  interesting  lore  as  the  fact 
that  the  Gil  Hodges  have  a  bathroom  done  in  pink.  As  a  result, 
the  shows  have  built  up  a  large  feminine  audience.  Women 
are  flocking  to  Ebbets  Field,  although  Gussie,  in  order  to  be 
at  the  studios  for  broadcast-time,  watches  the  games 
on  TV.  ...  To  be  near  the  WMGM  studios,  Gussie  has  rented 
a  three-room  apartment  in  Manhattan's  East  60's.  She 
does  her  own  cooking,  preferably  Mexican   and  Chinese  food, 
also  designs  tennis  clothes.  .  .  .  Gussie  first  took  up  tennis 
while  in  high  school  in  Santa  Monica,  California.  She  received 
world-wide  publicity  when  she  appeared  on  the  tennis 
court  at  Wimbledon  wearing  lace  panties,  but  Gussie's  press 
clippings  also  tell  of  her  superior  coordination  and  sound 
strokes.  In  1948,  she  was  fourth-ranking  in  the  national  amateur 
standings.  .  .  .  The  tall,  long-legged,  green-eyed  damsel  wishes 
that  people  would  refrain  from  asking,  "Do  you  have  them  on?" 
They  mean  the  lace  panties,  but,  as  Gussie  sighs,  "What  can 
you  say?"  ...  A  local  sportswriter  smiled  when  he  said  that: 
"Incidentally,  when  male  sports  commentators  fluff  one,  they  call 
it  a  bloomer,  but  with  Gussie,  shouldn't  it  be  called  a  panty?" 


i 


From  "tennis  anyone"  to  "who's  on  first. 


revolution  in  lipstick 


in  a  moment 


every  other 


lipstick 


will  be 


old-fashioned 


w" 


THE      REVOLUTIONARY 


.  .  .  glides  on  at  a  touch  .  .  .  yet  stays  on 
twice   as  long  as  "long-lasting"   lipsticks 


(§)  THE  GHXETTE  CO, 


Twice  as  long?    Yes!    Just  put  on  Soft  Touch 

and  forget  about  it.    No  need  to  retouch  — witti 

Soft  Touch.    No  messy  smear .  .  .  and  so  comfortable.' 


Cream  or  Lotion 


Shampoo 


"Yes,  I  use  Lustre-Creme 
Shampoo,"  says  Rhonda  Fleming. 
It's  the  favorite  of  4  out  of  5 
top  Hollywood  movie  stars! 

It  never  dries  your  hair!  Lustre- 
Creme  Shampoo  is  blessed  with 
lanolin  .  .  .  foams  into  rich  lather, 
even  in  hardest  water  .  .  .  leaves 
hair  so  easy  to  manage. 

It  beautifies!  For  soft,  bright,  fra- 
grantly clean  hair — without  special 
after-rinses — choose  the  shampoo  of 
America's  most  glamorous  women. 
Use  the  favorite  of  Hollywood  movie 
stars — Lustre-Creme  Shampoo. 


44oi&Lu;Mis^&^  Lustre  -  Creme  Shampoo 

Never 

it  Beautt 


T 

V 
R 

18 


J, 


A"-/^^.     7^^^^^«^^  starring  in  "TENNESSEE'S   PARTNER" 

A  Benedict  Rngeaiis  Proii.  An  RKO  Radio  Release.  Color  by  Technicolor. 


Ash 


your  questions — 


Matchmaking 


Could  you  tell  me  whether  Richard 
Coogan,  who  plays  Paul  Raven  in  Love  Of 
Life,  is  married  in  private  life?  He  and 
Peggy  McCay,  who  plays  Vanessa,  make 
such  a  perfect  couple  on  TV,  and  their 
roles  as  husband  and  wife  seem  too  real 
and  convincing  to  be  fiction.  I  like  to  be- 
lieve they  are  really  in  love  off-camera. 

D.F.,  Hartford,  Mich. 

Richard  Coogan  is  happily  married  to  a 
former  singer,  Gay  Adams,  and  they  have 
a  five-year-old  son,  Ricky.  Peggy  McCay 
is  one  of  New  York's  most  popular  belles, 
but  has  still  to  say  her  "I  do's." 

Cupid  to  Cop 

Would  you  tell  me  about  Ben  Alexander, 
who  plays  Officer  Frank  Smith  on  Dragnet 
and  Badge  714  on  TV? 

A.S.,  Clintonville,   Wis. 

Ben  Alexander  began  his  career  at  the 
age  of  three  in  the  movie  role  of  Cupid. 
Nevada-born  Ben  followed  this  debut  with 
eleven  years  as  a  top  child  movie  star. 
But  his  present  role  as  Sgt.  Friday's  side- 
kick is  good  casting.  Ben's  godfather  was 
Jack  Finlinson,  assistant  chief  of  the  Los 
Angeles  Police  Department  for  thirteen 
years.  And,  as  Ben  says,  "I  look  like  90 
percent  of  the  cops  in  Los  Angeles."  .  .  . 
After  Cupid,  Ben  played  child  parts,  nota- 
bly in  the  "Penrod"  series,  then  was  cast 
as  the  "bad  boy"  and  decided  to  quit 
movies  when  he  was  beaten  over  the  head 
in  "Are  These  Our  Children?"  In  1929  he 
enrolled  at  Stanford  University  and,  while 
there,  made  his  last  film,  "All  Quiet  on  the 
Western  Front,"  for  which  he  won  a  num- 
ber of  acting  awards.  Ben  entered  radio 
in  1935,  became  a  leading  emcee  and  an- 
nouncer on  such  programs  as  the  Charlie 
McCarthy  Show  and  Father  Knows  Best. 
He  debuted  on  TV  in  1949,  was  co-starring 
with  his  wife  on  a  weekly  Los  Angeles  and 
San  Francisco  giveaway  show  when  Jack 
Webb  spotted  him  and  asked  him  to  join 
Dragnet,  his  first  dramatic  role  in  17  years. 
.  .  .  Ben  claims  he  is  more  of  a  businessman 
than  an  actor,  proves  it  by  owning  four 
thriving  West  Coast  gas  stations  and  two 
motels.  He  started  the  gas  stations  to  keep 
the  men  in  his  former  Army  radar  division 
together  and  currently  employs  all  of 
them.  .  .  .  Ben  has  a  twelve-year-old  son, 
Nicholas,  by  a  former  marriage,  and  he 
and  his  wife  Lesley  have  recently  wel- 
comed a  new  Alexander.  Their  home  is  in 
Hollywood,  their  chief  pleasure  a  large 
cabin  cruiser  called  "Sunday's  Child," 
a  description  which  applies  to  both  Ben 
and   Lesley. 


information  bootli 


and  we'll  try  to  find  the  answers 


Father  And  Son 

/  should  like  to  know  something  about 
Buster  Crabbe,  who  stars  with  his  young 
son  "Cuffy"  in  NBC-TV's  Captain  Gallant 
Of  The  Foreign  Legion. 

N.C.G.,  Winnetka,  III. 

Ten-year-old  Cullen  "CufEy"  Crabbe 
walks  off  with  this  year's  honors  for  small- 
fry  adventures,  having  tripped  ofiE  to  Africa 
with  his  dad  Buster  Crabbe — swimming, 
movie,  radio  and  TV  luminary — to  make 
friends  with  Arab  youngsters,  meet  some 
bona-fide  Foreign  Legionnaires,  spend 
some  time  in  Gay  Paree.  receive  an  Italian 
motor  scooter  as  a  gift — and,  incidentally, 
film  the  Captain  Gallant  adventure  series. 
.  .  .  Buster  Crabbe's  youth  was  equally 
exciting.  Born  in  Oakland,  California, 
Buster  was  raised  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands, 
on  a  pineapple  plantation  on  which  his 
father  was  overseer.  Like  most  Island 
youngsters.  Buster  practically  lived  in  the 
water.  In  high  school,  he  was  a  16-letter 
man,  winning  a  letter  each  year  in  football, 
basketball,  track  and  swimming.  He  won 
the  light-heavyweight  boxing  championship 
of  Hawaii  while  at  the  University  of 
Hawaii,  then  returned  stateside  to  study 
law  at  U.S.C.  ...  At  this  point,  the  1932 
Olympics  were  staged  in  Los  Angeles  and 
Buster  won  a  place  on  the  U.S.  swimming 
team  and  then  proceeded  to  win  the  400- 
meter  title,  becoming  the  first  Olympic 
swimmer  to  do  the  distance  under  five  min- 
utes. That  was  the  second  Olympic  appear- 
ance for  Buster,  whose  swimming  accom- 
plishments   have    netted    him    five    world 


Ben  Alexander 


records,  16  world,  and  35  national,  cham- 
pionships. .  .  .  Hollywood  promptly  signed 
the  trim,  200-pound  swimming  star  as  a 
movie  star  and  he  made  some  170  films, 
including  the  Tarzan,  Buck  Rogers  and 
Flash  Gordon  series.  In  1940,  he  swam  at 
the  World's  Fair,  then  formed  Buster 
Crabbe's  Aquaparade  to  tour  the  states 
and  Europe  for  five  years.  His  first  TV 
program.  The  Buster  Crabbe  Show,  drew 
11,000  letters  its  first  week,  and  was  fol- 
lowed by  Figure  Fashioning  By  Buster 
Crabbe  on  TV  and  Luncheon  With  Buster 
Crabbe  on  radio.  .  .  .  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Crabbe 
have  three  children — Cuffy,  10,  Sande,  18, 
and  Susan,  16 — all  of  whom  reside  in  New 
York's  suburban  Westchester  County.  The 
Crabbes  also  own  a  home  on  Lake  Arrow- 
head, California.  And  all  are  expert  swim- 
mers and  riders. 

Encore  With  Tears 

/  would  like  to  know  something  about 
Carol  Richards,  who  sings  on  CBS-TV's 
The  Bob  Crosby  Show. 

C.H.,  Phoenix,  Arizona 

The  first  time  titian-haired  Carol  Rich- 
ards was  asked  to  do  an  encore,  she  wept 
bitterly.  Four  years  old  at  the  time,  Carol 
"thought  they  meant  I  didn't  sing  it  right 
the  first  time."  But  after  more  church  choir 
and  amateur  production  singing  in  her 
native  Harvard,  Illinois,  Carol  learned  to 
enjoy  her  curtain  calls  and,  at  fifteen,  was 
happily  vocalizing  on  an  Indianapolis  radio 
station.  Meanwhile,  she  continued  her 
formal  schooling,  studied  dramatics,  sang 
in  the  glee  club,  edited  her  school  paper, 
made  her  debating  team,  and  was  president 
of  her  class  in  her  junior  year.  Then  the 
big  break  came  in  the  form  of  a  singing 
contest  conducted  by  Bob  Hope  in  31 
cities.  Carol  won,  appeared  on  Hope's  show 
and  pleased  "Ski  Nose"  so  much  he 
brought  her  to  Hollywood  for  more  guest 
appearances.  Soon  Carol  was  being  fea- 
tured on  the  Edgar  Bergen  Show,  Bing 
Crosby  Show,  Martin  And  Lewis  Show,  and 
Lux  Radio  Theater.  She  starred  on  her 
own  network  radio  show,  played  Dennis 
Day's  girlfriend,  and  was  featured  on  / 
Love  Lucy.  She's  recorded  solo,  has  also 
disc-dueted  with  Bing  Crosby,  and  has 
played  in  the  top  night  clubs.  In  August, 
1954,  she  joined  the  Bob  Crosby  Show  as 
a  temporary  replacement  while  Joanie 
O'Brien  was  on  her  honeymoon.  But  audi- 
ence reaction  was  so  enthusiastic  that  Bob 
asked  Carol  to  stay  on  as  a  member  of  his 
troupe. 

Carol  lives  with  her  two  young  daugh- 
ters in  an  unpretentious,  three-bedroom 
house  in  North  Hollywood.  A  talented  dec- 
orator, she  paneled  her  living  room  with 


Carol  Richards 


knotty  pine,  papered  her  own  bedroom  and 
created  a  circus  motif  for  her  daughters' 
room.  Her  hobbies  are  sculpturing  and 
poetry  and  she  also  enjoys  swimming, 
watching  football  games  and  the  outdoor 
life. 

Calling  All   Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested  in  joining,  write 
to  the  address  given — not  TV  Radio  Mir- 
ror. 

Baird  Fan  Club  (Bil,  Cora  and  their 
puppets),  c/o  Robert  Brawnschweiger, 
155  Virginia  St.,  Hillside,  N.  J. 

Bob  and  Ray  Fan  Club  (Boh  Elliott  and 
Ray  Goulding),  c/o  John  Collins,  712  E. 
27  St.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Steve  Lawrence  Fan  Club,  c/o  Carol 
Massie,  762  Cooper  Ave.,  Lowellville,  0. 

McGuire  Sisters  Fan  Club,  c/o  Dale  M. 
Hoffman,  20  North  Main  St.,  Box  2,  Mi- 
amisburg,  0. 

Kokomo  Club  (Perry  Como),  c/o  Jane 
Devening,  1315  Q  Ave.,  New  Castle,  Ind. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 

something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


19 


IVei¥  Patterns 
for  Yon 


Tremendous 
assortment! 
Good  condition,  ready  to  wear. 
Washable,   colorful   cottons! 

Price   includes  all  12  dresses! 


Sizes  1-6X 
Sizes  7-14 


$3.45 
$3.95 


20 


FREE  GIFT  WITH  EVERY   ORDER! 
RUSH  ORDER  NOW! 
Send  $1  deposit  now!  Pay  postman 
balance   plus  C.O.D.  and   postage. 

MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 

You    must   be    100%    satisfied    with 
merchandise    or    return    within 
10  days  for   refund. 
BUY  from  PEOPLES  for  LOWEST  PRICES 
and  HIGHEST  QUALITY. 

"peoples  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE 

15   HESTER   ST.,   DEPT.  MF-?. 
NEW   YORK    2,   N.  Y. 

$1    DEPOSIT  Age  Size  Price 

MUST 

ACCOMPANY 
ORDER! 

NAME  


ADDRESS. 


CITY. 


STATE. 


No  order  accepted  without  $1  deposit. 


9389 

SIZES 
9—17 


9142 — Wear  this  jumper  with  its  own 
blouse  or  with  other  blouses  and  sweaters. 
Bare  it  for  a  date-dress.  Misses'  Sizes  12- 
20;  30-42.  Size  16  jumper  takes  3  yards  39- 
inch  fabric;  blouse  V/s  yards.  35^ 

9389— Beginner-easy,  jiffy-sew.  No  waist- 
line seam.  Nip-in  the  waistline  with  your 
favorite  waist-cincher.  Jr.  Miss  Sizes  9-17. 
Size  13  takes  5  yards  39-inch  fabric.  350 

9172 — Complete  wardrobe  of  mix'n'match 
separates  in  one  pattern.  Each  styled  to 
slim,  to  flatter.  Women's  Sizes  34-48.  Size 
36  skirt  and  vest  takes  3%  yards  39-inch; 
blouse,    2^8     yards    35-inch    fabric.    35^ 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for 
each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
Pattern  Department,  P.O.  Box  137, 
Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11, 
New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each 
pattern  for  first-class  mailing. 


For  the  Easiest  Permanent 
of  Your  Life  . . . 


SET  IT  / 


Set  yonr  pin-cmls  jnst  as  yon  always  do. 
No  need  for  anyone  to  help. 


"'#»<»■ 


% 


WET  IT/ 


Apply  Casual  lotion  just  once. 
15  minutes  later,  rinse  with  clear  water. 


FORGET  IT.' 


That's  all  there  is  to  it !  CASUAL  is 

self-neutralizing.  There's  no  resetting. 

Your  work  is  finished ! 


Naturally  lovely,  carefree  curls 

that  last  for  weeks  . . . 

Casual  is  the  word  for  it . . .  soft,  carefree  waves 

and  curls  — never  tight  or  kinky— beautifully  manageable, 

perfect  for  the  new  flattering  hair  styles  that  highUght  the  softer, 

natural  look.  Tonight -give  yourself  the  loveliest  wave 

of  your  life  — a  Casual  pin-curl  permanent! 

takes  just  15  minutes  more  than  setting  your  hair! 

$1.50   PIUS   TAX 


T 
V 
R 

21 


MADE     ONLY     BY     V  H  f.     ,  N  i  t  RN  A  Tt  O  N  AL    SIL\/trt     COMPANY,    U-    S      A. 


DANISH    PF*1NCESS 


RIGHT    FUTURE 


Practical  as  '"everydgy^'  ivare       *,    %?-^^«'*«>/''  ' 
and  romantic,  too 


""7;^^ 


Holmes  &  Edwards 
sterling  inlaid  silverplate 

Just  as  the  best  man  won  you  .  .  .  Holmes  &  Edwards  wins  you.  It  is  the  best 
.  .  .  the  only  silverplate  with  extra  sterling  inlaid  at  backs  of  bowls  and 
handles   of   most-used    pieces.    52-piece    service    for    8   and   chest,    $84.50. 


22 


'   '  '-^      Tivo  blacks  (ij  slerling  inlaid  at   backs  of  bowls    '"  »^ 

and  handles  promise  longer,  lovelier  silver  life. 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM 
COAST  TO  COAST 

(Continued  from  page  6) 


Monday,  October  3,  is  the  starting  date 
for  a  new  daytime  series  called  Matinee. 
It  will  be  seen  weekdays  and  will  be  a 
full-hour,  live  dramatic  program  with  a 
complete  new  drama  and  cast  each  day. 
Scripts  will  come  from  all  sources.  Some 
will  be  originals;  others  will  be  repeat 
showings  of  some  of  the  best  night-time 
dramatic  television  of  the  past.  Matinee  |j 
promises  to  be  a  tremendous  undertaking:  ' 
During  the  season  it  will  present  some  two 
hundred  and  forty-four  different  plays, 
requiring  twenty  directors  and  approxi- 
mately five  thousand  actors. 

Jackie  Cooper  stars  in  a  new  situation 
comedy,  The  People's  Choice,  starting 
Thursday  night,  October  6.  The  former 
child  star  plays  a  government  bird- 
watcher-turned-councilman. His  leading 
lady  will  be  Pat  Breslin,  in  the  role  of  the 
mayor's  daughter. 

Two  interesting  one-shots  have  been  set 
for  Sunday  night,  October  9.  The  first  is 
"Tomorrow — 1976,"  which  will  be  part  of 
NBC's  forthcoming  "Telementary"  series 
and  will  offer  viewers  a  look  at  life  in  the 
United  States  twenty-one  years  from  now. 
The  second  will  be  a  special  show,  starring 
Ethel  Merman  and  paying  tribute  to  her 
twenty-fifth  anniversary  in  show  business. 

CBS:  The  Ford  Star  Jubilee  will  be  a 
monthly  one  and  one-half  hour  program 
to  be  seen  every  fourth  Saturday  night. 
Noel  Coward,  Mary  Martin,  and  Bing 
Crosby  have  been  signed  to  alternate  in 
the  star  spots,  with  Bing  penciled  in  to 
lead  off  the  series  on  September  24.  Orson 
Welles  has  also  been  signed  in  the  capacity 
of  actor-director.  His  first  production  will 
probably  be  the  CBS -TV  version  of  "Tril- 
by," with  the  bearded  Orson  playing  Sven- 
gah. 

The  Phil  Silvers  Show  ihakes  its  debut 
Tuesday  night,  September  20.  This  is  the 
long-awaited  filmed  situation  comedy,  with 
Phil  playing  an  Army  sergeant.  CBS-TV 
refrained  from  presenting  it  last  year — 
even  though  they  had  the  complete  series 
already  filmed — because  they  didn't  have 
the  proper  time  spot  for  it. 

The  Jackie  Gleason  Hour  begins  Satur- 
(Continued  on  page  24) 


Crosbys — Gary,   Bob  and  Cathy — each 
have    contract    ties    to    the    CBS    clan. 


r: 

PIAYTEX  Introduces  the  Amazing  New 
Girdle  Materia  I...  ^^we-5///77;77/>7^  FABRICON/ 


Sensational  New  PIAYTEX 


Made  of  woiulerfiil  new  split- resistant 

FABRICOX 

...  a  miracle  hiend  of  downy-soft 
cotton  and  latex  tliat  si>  es  vou 

more  freedom.^  Fabncon  has  more  stretch.'  No  other 
material  has  Fahriron's  give-and-take  s-t-r-e-t-c-hl 

new  coolness.'  ''Open-pore"'  Fabricon  lets  your  b<jily 
breathe/  Only  Piaytex  Girdles  are  so  soft.  cool,  absorbent. 

invisible  control.'  Not  a  seam,  stiteh  or  bono  any- 
where. No  other  lightweight  girdle  tucks  in  your  tunmi v,  slims 
down  your  hips  like  this  new  Piaytex  Girdle.  Makes  all  your 
clothes  fit  and  look  better.  Doe.s  more  for  your  figure  than 
girdles  costing  up  to  .*1.S"".'  And  Light -Vi  eight  washes  and 
dries  in  a  wink.  New  Piaytex  Light -\\  eight  Girdle  §495 
At  department  and  better  sj)erialtv  stores  everywhere. 


%fc  ^v 


'     I 


Plnytex  . . . 
known  eieryu here 
ns  the  liirdle 
in  the  aiM  tube. 


P.  S.  The  eirt  is  icearing  the  npic  Plavtex  Lirinei''  Bru*  made  of  eiastic  and  nylon,  SS.9S 

TM 

it  Lotex  Corp'n. . . .  PLAYTEX  PARK  . . .  Dover  De)  *  In  CoTOda:  Playfex  Ud. . . .  PIAYTEX  PARK . . .  Arnprior,  Ont, 


r 

-V  S  A. 

Canada  and  Foreign  Pass. 

V 

ana  I'ai.- 

.  Peniinis 

R 

Replies  From  Survey  Reveal: 

NURSES 

ZONITE 

IDRKMININtHVGIENE 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST  TO  COAST 

(Continued  from  page  22) 


24 


What  Greater  Assurance  Can  a 
Bride-to-be  or  Married  Woman  Have 

Women  who  value  true  married  happi- 
ness and  physical  charm  know  how 
essential  a  cleansing,  antiseptic  and  de- 
odorizing douche  is  for  intimate  femi- 
nine cleanliness  and  after  monthly 
periods. 

Douching  has  become  such  a  part  of 
the  modern  way  of  life  an  additional 
survey  showed  that  of  the  married 
women  who  replied: 
83.3%  douche  after  monthly  periods. 
86.5%  at  other  times. 
So  many  women  are  benefiting  by  this 
sanitary  practice — why  deny  yourself? 
What  greater  "peace  of  mind"  can  a 
woman  have  than  to  know  zonite  is  so 
highly  regarded  among  nurses  for  the 
douche .'' 

ZONITE's  Many  Advantages 

Scientific  tests  proved  no  other  type 
liquid  antiseptic-germicide  for  the 
douche  of  all  those  tested  is  so  power- 
fully EFFECTIVE  yet  SAFE  to  body 
tissues  as  zonite.  It's  positively  non- 
poisonous,  non-irritating.  You  can  use 
ZONITE  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A 
ZONITE  douche  immediately 
washes  away  odor-causing 
deposits.  It  completely  de- 
odorizes. Leaves  you  with  a 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence. Inexpensive.  Costs 
only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 

If  any  abnormal  condition  exists, 
see  your  doctor. 


day  night,  October  1.  The  first  half  will 
be  the  variety  Stage  Show,  and  the  second 
half  will  be  the  Gleason  filmed  production 
of  "The  Honeymooners,"  with  his  cohorts, 
Audrey  Meadows  and  Art  Carney. 

Navy  Log,  a  factual  adventure  series 
drawn  from  the  heroic  exploits  of  the  U.S. 
Navy,  as  logged  on  the  official  record,  is 
being  presented  in  half-hour  dramatiza- 
tions Tuesday  nights.  The  dramas — all 
true-life  stories — will  depict  the  courage 
and  daring  of  Navy  personnel  in  this  coun- 
try and  abroad.  The  Navy  is  cooperating 
with  CBS-TV,  providing  facilities,  infor- 
mation and  the  like,  to  produce  the  series. 

Chrysler  will  begin  presenting  their 
Thursday-night  special  shows  in  a  few 
weeks,  alternating  the  drarhatic  Climax 
with  the  musical,  Shower  Of  Stars.  Jack 
Benny  has  already  been  signed  for  ten 
appearances. 

Victor  Borge  has  been  signed  to  do  two 
special  one-hour,  one-man  performances 
on  CBS-TV  this  season.  The  Danish  musi- 
cian-comedian will  also  make  several  guest 
appearances  later  in  the  fall. 

ABC:  M-G-M,  the  last  motion-picture 
studio  hold-out  against  television,  has 
finally  joined  the  parade.  Beginning  Wed- 
nesday night,  September  14,  The  M-G-M 
Parade  will  become  a  weekly  TV  show, 
following  Disneyland.  George  Murphy  will 
serve  as  host  and  director. 

September  14  is  also  the  date  for  the 
new  Disneyland  series,  starting  off  with 
"The  Legends  of  Davy  Crockett,"  co-star- 
ring Fess  Parker  as  Davy  and  Buddy 
Ebsen  as  George  Russel.  In  "The  Legends," 
Walt  Disney  is  introducing  a  new  charac- 
ter— who  could  possibly  become  another 
national  hero  to  youngsters.  He  is  Mike 
Fink,  the  legendary  American  keelboat 
king,  and  he  is  played  by  Jeff  York,  an 
actor  who  stands  six  feet,  four  inches, 
weighs  230  pounds,  has  a  fifty-inch  chest 
measurement,  and  also  possesses  a  rousing 
baritone  voice.  Needless  to  say,  Disney 
has  signed  Jei?  to  an  exclusive  contract. 

Warner  Bros.  Presents  makes  its  bow  on 
Tuesday  night,  September  13,  with  the  first 
of  its  filmed   drama  series,   "Casablanca." 


Also  to  be  seen  during  the  season  will  be 
complete  stories  done  around  the  movies, 
"King's  Row"  and  "Cheyerme."  Actor  Gig 
Young  will  appear  each  week  as  host  and 
will  present  a  six-minute  segment  of  each 
show,  "Behind  the  Cameras  at  Warner 
Bros.  Studios." 

Medical  Horizons  is  an  interesting  new 
TV  series,  beginning  Monday  night,  Sep- 
tember 12.  This  documentary  will  pro- 
mote the  American  way  of  medical  life  by 
presenting  specific  accomplishments  in 
medicine  brought  about  through  the  team- 
work of  modern  medical  research,  educa- 
tion and  practice.  The  series  will  originate 
live  from  medical  institutions  and  research 
centers  throughout  the  country. 

This  'n'  That: 

CBS  has  signed  Cathy  Crosby,  Bob's 
daughter,  to  a  contract,  and  she's  all  set 
for  a  vocal  career,  following  completion  of 
her  schooling.  Cousin  Gary  also  has  a 
CBS  pact,  'and  the  network  would  probably 
be  very  happy  if  they  could  tie  up  the 
rest  of  the  "little  Crosbys." 

Dr.  Frances  Horwich,  "Miss  Frances"  on 
NBC-TV's  Ding  Dong  School,  will  start  a 
teacher-recruiting  drive  this  fall  on  her 
show.  She  hopes  to  go  into  the  serious 
problem  of  the  teacher  shortage  in  the 
"parents'  portion"  of  program,  and  will 
urge  parents  to  encourage  young  friends 
and  relatives  to  enter  the  teaching  field. 

Mary  Stuart  is  singing  Joanne  Barron's 
lullabies  to  her  own  baby  Cynthia  now. 
Mary,  who  is  married  to  TV  producer 
Richard  Krolik,  has  starred  as  JoEinne  in 
Search  For  Tomorrow  in  more  than  1000 
CBS  telecasts. 

And  Jack  Benny  is  now  a  grandfather! 
His  daughter,  Joan,  and  her  husband,  Seth 
Baker,  are  the  proud  parents  of  a  tiny  lad, 
named  Michael.  Jack  celebrated  the  occa- 
sion by  knocking  a  year  off  his  age,  and 
says  from  now  on  he's  thirty-eight! 

Mulling  The  Mall: 

Mrs.  R.W.I.,  Lafayette,  Ind.:  Curt  Massey 
did  sing  on  Chicago  radio  in  the  early 
1940's,  but  hasn't  done  much  professionally 


Nurse  Eva  Blumstein  shows  off  baby  Michael  to  his  mother,  Joan 
Benny  Baker,  and  Jack  Benny,  who  thereupon  "aged"  from  39  to  38! 


Jayne  Meadows  gets  a  head-s+art  on 
Yuletide    with    hand-crocheted    gifts. 


since  his  show  with  Martha  Tilton  went  [ 
oi?  last  year.  He  spends  most  his  time  with 
his  family  on  his  ranch  near  San  Diego, 
California.  .  .  .  Miss  L.  K.,  Puryear,  Tenn.: 
Bess  Myerson,  of  The  Big  Payoff,  is  mar- 
ried to  Allan  Wayne,  a  manufacturer,  and  ; 
they  have  an  eight-year-old  daughter.  .  .  .  j 
Mrs.  H.  A.,  Rochester,  N.  Y.:    Jan  Arden   ' 
has  been  off  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  show  for  i 
some    time    and    has    been    doing    mostly 
night-club  work  in  the  East  and  Midwest. 
.  .  .  Mrs.  L.  McN.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.:   Cliff 
Edwards  (Ukulele  Ike)  is  scheduled  to  be  , 
one  of  the  main  human  characters  on  the 
forthcoming  Mickey  Mouse  Club  show.  .  .  . 
Mrs.    F.    C,    South    Hadley    Falls,    Mass.: 
Louise  Albritton  has  not  appeared  on  any 
regular  show  since  Concerning  Miss  Mar- 
lowe.   In    private    life    she    is    married    to 
newscaster  Charles  CoUingwood.  .  .  .  Miss 
L.  L.  v.,  Chicago,  El.:   Tony  Martin's  real 
name  is  Alvin  Morris,  and  he  was  formerly 
married  to  Alice  Faye.  .  .  .  Mr.  J.  W.,  Los 
Altos,   Calif.:    Vampira,   who   emceed   the 
late-hour    horror    show    on    Los    Angeles 
TV,    is    not    married.     Her    real    name    is 
Maila  Nurmi. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  .   .   .  ? 

Minerva  Pious,  the  famed  "Mrs.  Nuss- 
baum"  of  Fred  Allen's  radio  program  sev- 
eral years  ago?  Minerva  has  done  little 
professional  work  since  the  Allen  show 
went  off  the  air.  Recently,  however,  she 
signed  to  play  a  featured  role  in  the  movie, 
'■Joe  Macbeth,"  which  is  being  filmed  in 
Europe  for  release  by  Columbia  Pictures. 

Haleloke,  the  Hawaiian  songstress  and 
ex-Little  Godfrey?  Haleloke  now  has  a 
steady  job  with  a  New  York  organization 
specializing  in  Hawaiian  flowers,  informa- 
tion and  services.  She  recently  guested  on 
Horace  Heidt's  Show  Wagon  on  NBC-TV. 


If  you  have  a  question  about  one  of  your 
favorite  people  or  programs,  or  wonder 
what  has  happened  to  someone  on  radio 
or  television,  drop  me  a  line — Miss  Jill 
Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd 
St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y.,  and  I'll  try  my 
best  to  find  out  for  you  and  put  the  in- 
formation in  this  column.  Unfortunately, 
we  don't  have  space  to  answer  all  ques- 
tions, so  I  try  to  cover  those  personalities 
and  shows  about  whom  I  receive  the  most 
inquiries.  Sorry,  no  personal  answers,  so 
kindly  do  not  enclose  stamped  envelopes 
or  postage,   as   they   cannot   be   returned. 


. . .  Are  you  always  fresh  as  a  daisy? 


? 


Everywhere— all  day— you'll  be  confident 
of  your  loveliness  .  .  .  when  you  use  Fresh 
Cream  Deodorant.  Your  underarms  will  stay 
fresh,  moisture  free. 

Fresh  contains  the  most  effective 
perspiration-checking  ingredient  known! 

Fresh  is  extra  effective  .  .  .  yet  it's  kind  to 
skin.  Creamy  smooth,  not  sticky,  not  greasy. 
Has  a  delicate  fresh  fragrance.  Use  Fresh 
every  day— have  an  air  of  freshness  always. 


COMPARE! 

See  if  your 

present  deodorant 

is  as  effective  as  Fresh 

Test  it  under  one  arm.  Use 
Fresh  Cream  under  the  other. 
See  for  yourself  if  Fresh 
doesn't  stop  odor  best,  keep 
underarms  drier,  protect  your 
clothes  better  than  any  other 
deodorant  you've  ever  used. 


^5^^  girl  is  always 
lovely  to  love 


^^ 


25 


>Vhat  have  they  done  to  White  Rain?     Feel  it!  Gobs  and  gobs  more  lather!       Feel  that  rainwater  softness! 


What  a  clean  feeling!  Will  my  hair  be  soft  and  sunshiny. ..  in   better  condition?  I  just  know  it! 


pf^Cl^^^"' 


26 


-,flO^- 


NEVIf 


J^J/^k^^/^ 


By  (OHL'  the  people  who  know  your  hair  best! 


Born  to  be  an  ACTOR  i 


I 


^. 


4    »      >     -t^,^'*: 


\v 


x\ 


-^" 


^' »«  -^.: 


John  Baragrey's  wife  is 
Louise  Larrabee  — actress. 


_^^'. 


^\ 


For  a  romantic  gentleman  like  John  Baragrey, 
life  is  all  drama — and  drama  is  the  life  for  him 

By  ERNST  JACOBI 

ON  THE  EVENING  of  November  28,  1954,  John  Baragrey  took  his  final  bow 
in  his  ninth  Broadway  flop,  a  farce  called  "One  Eye  Closed"  which  had 
lasted  all  of  three  performances.  With  rare  unanimity,  critics  had  panned 
it  xmmercifully,  piinning  on  the  difficulty  of  "keeping  the  other  eye  open." 
Although  Baragrey  had  received  his  usual  excellent  notices  for  his  own  paft, 
the  cumulative  effect  of  nine  successive  failures  was  still  depressing. 

It  hardly  helped  that  his  agent  called  a  couple  of  days  later,  offering  him 


:?V 


i 


See  Next  Page 


Born  to  be  an  ACTOR 


{Continued) 


For  all  his  fine  physique,  John  would  rather  read  than  roll  logs.  And,  though  he  loves  to  cook,  he'd  rather  eati  He  and 
Louise  ore  "city  folks,"  but  enjoy  country  life  when  playing  sunnmer  stock  at  such  playhouses  as  the  one  in  Ivoryton,  Conn. 


a  job  on  radio.  "I  don't  know,"  Baragrey  said  doubt- 
fully. "I  don't  even  know  if  I  can  do  it." 

John  had  been  in  the  theater  for  fourteen  years,  done 
a  number  of  movies,  and  been  a  highly  popular  tele- 
vision star  since  1946.  He'd  never  done  anything  in  radio, 
though,  and — ^while  he  would  have  welcomed  the  op- 
portunity during  his  struggling  years — ^he  couldn't  get 
excited  over  it  at  this  point  of  his  career.  Moreover, 
considering  his  lean  and  rangy  six-foot,  three-inch 
frame,  his  shock  of  black  hair,  arching  eyebrows  and 
aristocratic  features,  anyone  was  bound  to  agree  that 
using  only  his  voice  was  a  shocking  waste  of  valuable 
assets. 

"It's  a  very  good  daytime  drama  called  The  Doctor's 
Wife,"  his  agent  explained.  "You're  to  play  the  part  of 
Dan  Palmer,  an  idealistic  young  doctor  practicing  in  a 
small  town  in  Connecticut .  .  ." 

"A  doctor?"  Baragrey  interrupted,  suddenly  inter- 
ested. "A  small-town  doctor.  Okay,  Dick.  Thanks  a  lot. 
I'll  take  a  stab  at  it." 

As  he  put  down  the  phone,  John's  mind  skipped  back 
some  twenty-five  years  to  his  childhood  and  early 
youth  in  the  little  town  of  HaleyviUe,  in  the  northern 
part  of  Alabama. 

In  those  days,  young  John  Baragrey  (his  real  name, 
his  father  being  of  Basque  descent)  had  idohzed  his 
Uncle  Wash — Dr.  Washington  M.  Godsey,  his  mother's 
brother  and  Haleyville's  only  resident  physician.  He'd 
spent  more  hours  on  more  afternoons  with  him  than  he 
could  count  or  remember.  And,  when  Uncle  Wash  had 
recently  passed  away,  his  death  had  opened  up  veins  of 
sorrow  and  regret  unexpected  after  all  these  years. 

Uncle  Wash's  house  wasn't  far  from  that  of  the  Bara- 


John  Baragrey  has  acted  in  virtually  every  medium — TV,  radio,  Broadway  ploys,  Hollywood  films.  While  entertaining  troops 
in  the  Pacific,  during  the  war,  he  and  Louise  were  cast  in  the  some  ploy  for  USO.  And  that's  how  John  met  his  bride-to-be. 


greys  and  each  afternoon,  when  John  came  home  from 
school,  he  went  a  little  out  of  his  way  to  see  whether  his 
uncle's  black  Ford  coupe  was  standing  in  front  of  the 
gate.  If  it  was,  he'd  go  in  or  patiently  wait  outside, 
hoping  to  be  taken  along  on  his  uncle's  calls.  In  the  car, 
Uncle  Wash  would  talk  to  him  almost  as  though  he 
were  a  grownup,  treating  him  like  a  young  colleague, 
explaining  his  cases  to  him  and  filling  him  up  with 
medical  lore.  When  there  was  no  danger  of  contagion 
for  the  child,  the  doctor  would  let  John  carry  his  bag 
into  the  house  for  him,  give  him  a  chance  to  listen  and 
observe  and  let  him  occasionally  help  with  some  medical 


chores.  "My  assistant,"  he  always  introduced  John  to 
his  patients.  But  Johnny's  proudest  moment  came  once 
during  an  emergency,  when  Uncle  Wash  had  to  operate 
immediately  and  really  needed  an  assistant.  There  was 
no  one  else  available,  and  he  had  to  let  Johnny  apply 
the  ether  and  watch  the  patient's  breathing. 

"Well,  Doctor  Baragrey,"  Uncle  Wash  said,  after  it  was 
all  over.  "I  think  we  did  a  good  job." 

"That  'we'  lingered  for  a  long  time,"  John  recalls  to- 
day. "I  think  in  those  days  I  wanted  to  be  a  doctor  al- 
most as  much  as  I  wanted  to  be  an  actor." 

The  wish,  the  drive  to  be  an  (Continued  on  page  82) 


29 


Jean  Hagen  believes  in  growth  and  developnaent,  with  one  motto:  "Don't  be  afraid  to  be  yourself." 


30 


Danny  Thomas  and  Jean  were  thrilled  when  "Moke  Room 
for  Daddy"  won  an  Emmy  award  in  its  first  year  on  TV. 


By  BETTY  MILLS 


JEAN  Hagen,  co-star  on  The  Danny  Thomas  Show, 
"Make  Room  For  Daddy,"  was  changing  in  her  dress- 
ing room  when  teenager  Sherry  Jackson — who  plays 
her  daughter  Terry — came  bursting  in,  chattering  like  a 
hot  Geiger  counter.  She  pirouetted  in  front  of  Jean  and, 
all  in  one  teen-age  breath,  exclaimed,  "My-new-skirt- 
what-do-you-think-of-it?   Isn't-it-just-the-greatest!" 

Jean's  look  traveled  down  the  skirt  from  waist  to  hem. 
It  was  like  one  long,  all-enveloping  pant-leg,  leaving 
only  a  half-inch  peek  between  lower  hem  and  bobby- 
sock.  Jean  said,  "It  reminds  {Continued  on  page  86) 

The  Danny  Thomas  Show,  "Make  Room  for  Daddy,"  on  ABC-TV, 
Tues.,  9  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  the  American  Tobacco  Co.  for 
Pall  Mall  Famous  Cigarettes  and  by  the  Dodge  Dealers  of  America. 


Jean  Hagen  followed  her  heart 

to  the  Danny  Thomas  show— and  to 

a  happy  marriage  all  her  own 


Tom  Seidel  is  Jean's  real-life  husband,  a  building  con- 
tractor,   who   does   wonderful   things  for  their   house. 


Jean   herself  has   been   nominated   for   both   TV's    Emmy  and    Hollywood's   Oscar   awards.    But   her    most   satisfying 
starring   role  is  as  a   housewife — and   mother  of  little  .Aric   Philip,   3,   and   Patricia  Christine  (known  as  "Chris"),   5. 


d 


I 


I 


<sss| 


'^^fthme 


Jean  Hagen  followed  her  heart 

to  the  Danny  Thomas  show-and  to 

a  happy  marriage  all  her  own 


Danny  Thomas  and  Jean  were  thrilled  when  "Moke  Room 
for  Daddy"  won  an  Emmy  award  in  its  first  year  on  TV. 

By  BETTY  MILLS 


JEAN  Hagen,  co-star  on  TJie  Danny  Thomas  Show, 
"Make  Room  For  Daddy,"  was  changing  in  her  dress-  * 
ing  room  when  teenager  Sherry  Jackson— who  plays 
her  daughter  Terry— came  bursting  in,  chattering  like  a 
hot  Geiger  counter.  She  pirouetted  in  front  of  Jean  and, 
all  in  one  teen-age  breath,  exclaimed,  "My-new-skirt- 
what-do-you-think-of-it?   Isn't-it-just-the-greatest!" 

Jean's  look  traveled  down  the  skirt  from  waist  to  hem. 
It  was  like  one  long,  all-enveloping  pant-leg,  leaving 
only  a  half-inch  peek  between  lower  hem  and  bobby- 
sock.  Jean  said,  "It  reminds  (Continued  on  page  86) 

The  Danny  Thomas  Show,  "Make  Room  for  Daddy,"  on  ABC-TV, 
Tues.,  9  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  the  American  Tobacco  Co.  for 
Pail  Mall  Famous  Cigarettes  and  by  the  Dodge  Dealers  of  America. 


Tom  Seidel  is  Jean's  real-life  husband,  a  building  con- 
tractor,  who  does  wonderful  things  for  their  house. 


Jean   herself  has   been   nominated   for  both   TV's   Emmy  and    Hollywood's   Oscar   awards.   But   her   most   satisfying 
starring   role  is  as  a   housewife — and   mother  of  little  lAric   Philip,   3,  and  Patricia  Christine  (known  as  "Chris"),   5. 


Jean  Hagen  believes  In  growth  and  development,  with  one  motto;  "Don't  be  ofroid  to  be  yourself." 


Il._. 


30 


It's  "jusf  like  old  times"  for  20-y.ear-old   Steve   Lawrence, 
when  he  helps  sister  Rose  and  their  mother  with  the  dishes. 


Fans  surround  him  in  the  studios.  But,  at  the  old  neighbor- 
hood candy  store,  he's  still  just  Steve — who  likes  ice  cream. 


Young  Steve  Lawrence  had  a  dream, 
and  another  Steve — Allen,  that  is — 
is  helping  to  make  it  come  true 

By  ED  MEYERSON 

As  EVERY  baseball  fan  i  knows,  Brooklyn  is 
obviously  part  of  the  United  States,  since  the 
Dodgers  play  in  the  National  League.    But,   to 
many  a  TV  fan,  Brooklyn's  chief  export  seems  to 
be  participants  for  quiz  shows  and  studio  audiences. 
Even  on  Tonight,  NBC-TV's  late  show,  Steve 
Allen  merely  has  to  interview  someone  who  says  he's 
from  Brooklyn  and  the  audience  invariably 
responds  with  laughter  and  cheers. 

But  to  Steve  Lawrence,  the  handsome  young 
singing  star  of  Tonight,  Brooklyn  is  no  joke.    That's 
where  he  lives!    And,  like  all  Brooklynites,  he 
not  only  loves  the  place — he'll  defend  its  honor  at 
the  drop  of  a  hat.   What's  more,  although  Steve 
is  now  a  top  recording  artist  as  well  as  a  regular 
on  the  Allen  show,  he  continues  to  live  near  the  same 
community  where  he  was  born,  and  where  he 
grew  up. 

"I  read  the  papers,"  Steve  says.    "All  this  juvenile 
delinquency — there's  no  excuse  for  it.   When  I  was 
a  kid,  our  neighborhood  was  just  as  tough  as  it  is 
today.    We  were  under  the  same  influences.    As  a 
matter  of  fact,  I  was  in  a  club  myself.    Everyone  was. 
A  couple  of  kids  would  get  together  and  say:    'Let's 
have  a  club,'  and  that's  how  it  would  start.   Then 
they  could  all  wear  the  same  kind  of  jackets  with  the 
name  of  their  club  on  the  backs — and  'SAC 
(Social  Athletic  Club)  under  it. 

"My  club  was  the  'Alabama  Dulies' — but  the  worst 
we  ever  did  was  get  into  snowball  fights.   Today, 
the  'Dukes'  are  all  responsible  citizens,  holding 
down  jobs  or  serving  in  the  Army.  Some  are  already 
married  and  have  children    (Continued  on  page  99) 


Steve  Lawrence  sings  on  Tonight,  starri'ig  .Steve  Alli  n,  as  seen  on 
NBC-TV.  M-F,  11:30  P.M.  EDT  (11  P.M.  COT),  under  multiple 
sponsorship — and  the  preceding  Steve  Allen  Sliotv.  over  WR(]A-TV' 
(New  York).  M-F.  11:15  P.M.,  sponsored  by  Knicicerbocker  Beer. 


32 


SOMETHING  FOR  MOTHER 


Music  has  always  been  part  of  his  home.  Above,  left,  brother  Victor  joins  Steve  in  a  song  for  papa  Max  and  nnama  Anno. 
Below,  left,  Judy  Rotkowitz  is  not  only  a  neighbor — and  former  schoolmate — but  coordinator  of  Steve's  fan  clubs.  Center, 
he  still  slips   money  into  the   refrigerator  for   Mother  to  find!  And,   right,  he  still  likes  to  discuss  things  with  his  dad. 


Like  Diane  of  Valiant  Lac  k' 


Left:  Flora  Campbell  stars  as  Helen 
Emerson  in  Valiant  Lady,  and  Marion 
plays  her  rebellious  daughter,    Diane. 

Not  much  of  a  view  from  the  apartmen-l 


t'arion  Randall  heard  the  city  calling  with  a  voice  not  to  he  denied 


DREAM  TOWN 


ik 


By  PHILIP  CHAPMAN 


HER  MOTHER  and  father  saw 
Marion  (Sue)  Randall  off  on  the 
tram  to  New  York.  Her  father 
said,  "Good  luck,  Sue.  Don't  worry 
about  anything.  You  can  always  come 
home."  Her  mother  kissed  her 
cheek  and  said,  "You'll  have  a 
wonderful  time."  She  paused, 
then  smiled.  "I've  always  trusted  you. 
I'm  not  worried  about  you  now." 

Sue  smiled,  too,  and  touched  her 
mother's  hand.  "Thank  heaven  for 
that."  And  she  got  on  the  train  and 
came  to  New  York,  where  she  got 
a  room  at  the  Studio  Club,  and  a  job, 
and  she  made  some  friends.  .  .  . 

Thus  begins  the  story  of  one  of 
the  newest  and  brightest  yoiing 
TV  stars  in  show  business.  When  I 
kept  an  {Continued  on  page  75) 

Marion  Randall  is  Diane  in  Valiant  Lady,  on 
CBS-TV,  M-F,  12  noon  EDT,  as  sponsored  by 
General  Mills  for  Gold  Medal  Flour,  Bisquick. 
other  products,  and  by  The  Toni   Company. 


She's  a  "soft  touch"  for  a 
wee,  wobbly  kitten — but  doesn't 
believe   in   keeping   it   helpless. 


,  Marion's   still   enchanted    by   the   very 

(1  ]  sidewalks  of  New  York,  and  is  getting 

used  to  the  city's  round-the-clock  din. 


»\i  she  shares  with   Inez  and   Priscilla.   But  the  girls   love  their   kitchenette — their   busy   phone — and   getting    ready   for   dates 


Like  Diane  of  Valiant  lady 


Uarion  Randall  heard  the  city  calling  with  a  voice  not  to  he  denied 


DREAM  TOWN 


By  PHILIP  CHAPMAN 


HER  MOTHER  and  father  saw 
Marion  (Sue)  Randall  off  on  the 
train  to  New  York.  Her  father 
said,  "Good  luck,  Sue.  Don't  worry 
about  anything.  You  can  always  come 
home."  Her  mother  kissed  her 
cheek  and  said,  "You'll  have  a 
wonderful  time."  She  paused, 
then  smiled.  "I've  always  trusted  you. 
I'm  not  worried  about  you  now." 

Sue  smiled,  too,  and  touched  her 
mother's  hand.  "Thank  heaven  for 
that."  And  she  got  on  the  train  and 
came  to  New  York,  where  she  got 
a  room  at  the  Studio  Club,  and  a  job, 
and  she  made  some  friends.  .  .  . 

Thus  begins  the  story  of  one  of 
the  newest  and  brightest  young 
TV  stars  in  show  business.  When  I 
kept  an  (Continued  on  page  75) 

Marion  Randall  is  Diane  in  Valiant  Lady,  on 
CBS-TV,  MF,  12  noon  EDT,  as  sponsored  by 
General  Mills  for  Gold  Medal  Flour,  Bisquick. 
other  products,  and  by  The  Toni  Company. 


She's  a  "soft  touch"  for  a 
wee,  wobbly  kitten — but  doesn't 
believe    in   keeping   it   helpless. 


Left:  Flora  Campbell  stars  as  Helen 
Emerson  in  Valiant  Lady,  and  Marion 
plays  her   rebellious  daughter,   Diane. 

Not  much  of  a  view  from  the  aportnnent 


Marion's  still  enchanted  by  the  very 
sidewalks  of  New  York,  and  is  getting 
used  to  the  city's  round-the-clock  din.  ^ 

she  shares  with   Inez  and   Priscilla.  But  the  girls  love  their   kitchenette— their  busy  phone— and  getting   ready  for   dates! 


Carry's  Golden 


Garry's  acts  of  kindness  sonne+imes  take  a  reverse  twist,  letting  others  do 
unto  him  what  impulse  dictates — thus,  one  eager  fan  discovered  that  Mr. 
Moore's  crew  cut  isn't  half  so  bristly  as  it  looks!  Left,  he's  low  man  on  the 
totem  pole — Ken  Carson  just  above,  then  Denise  Lor  and  Durward  KIrby. 


By  WARREN  CROMWELL 


SIX  TIMES  each  week,  Garry  Moore  sends  this  gentle 
admonition  to  the  millions  of  faithful  television 
viewers  who  make  it  a  point  to  tune  him  in:  "Be  very 
kind  to  each  other!"  At  the  close  of  each  television 
show  on  which  Garry  is  emcee,  the  friendly 
thought  is  spoken,  and  the  warm  philosophy  thus 
expressed  has  come  to  be  known  as  part  of 
Garry  Moore  and  part  of  his  programs. 

Yet,  when  the  program  is  over  and  the  lights 
in  the  studio  are  turned  oflF,  the  thought  is  not  forgotten. 
It  is  not  forgotten  by  the  many  viewers,  as  letters 
attest,  nor  is  it  forgotten  by  Garry  Moore  himself.  For 
the  man  with  the  crew  haircut  and  the  unusual 
sense  of  humor  lives  by  the  precept  he  voices. 

Garry  gladly  tells  how  he  began  using  the  thought. 
"It  all  started,"  he  says,  "at  the  end  of  a  radio 
program  of  mine  back  in  1949.  It  was  the  custom  then, 
as  it  still  is,  at  the  end  of  a  show,  when  there 
is  a  little  time  left  over,  to  give  a  slogan  for  safe  driving. 
On  this  occasion,  I  spoke  {Continued  on  page  101) 

Gavry  is  moderator  of  I've  Got  A  Secret,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  9:30  P.M. 
EDT,  sponsored  by  Winston  Cigarettes.  His  Garry  Moore  Show  is 
seen  on  CBS-TV,  M-F^,  10  A.M.  EDT,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


^Rule 


His  heart  goes  out  to  such  gallant 
youngsters  as  Billy  Jennings  in  the  1955 
Easter  Seal  Drive  for  crippled  children. 


That  rocker  was  a  gift  from  a  fan — 
his  secretary,  Shirley  McNally  (below), 
can  tell  of  nnany,  many  grateful  letters. 


Our  Mr.  Moore  knows  that  giving  a 
smile  costs  nothing—but  receiving  one 
can  be  more  priceless  than  uranium 


! 


37 


It  was  thrilling  beyond  belief  .  .  .  the  happy  Ferrer  home  in  California,  the  arrival  of  precious  Miguel  Jose,  all  the  fun  of  being 
wife  and  nnother.  But  there  was  more  to  come,  as  Rosie  found  new  worlds  to  conquer  ...  in  England,  Scotland — and  Ireland. 


/' 


:/7 


EVERYTHING'S    ROSIE 


By  MARTHA  BUCKLEY 


THERE  are  two  men  in  Rosemary  Clooney's  life  these 
days.  One  of  them  calls  her  Rosie.  The  other  doesn't 
call  her  anything.  She  calls  one  Joe.  The  other  is 
named  Miguel — but  he's  better  known  as  "Bombo."  One, 
of  course,  is  her  husband,  Jose  Ferrer.  The  other  is  her 
"fat  baby"  (the  quotes  are  Rosemary's),  who  was  born 
on  February  7,  this  year. 

It  took  me  just  about  five  minutes  to  discover  all  this 
when  I  saw  Rosemary  in  London  recently,  for  the  first 
time  in  more  than  two  years.  .  .  .  "So  hello,"  said  Rosie, 
as  she  breezed  into  London's  swank  new  Westbury  Hotel 
— for  all  the  world  as  though  it  were  the  Brown  Derby 


and  we'd  seen  each  other  only  a  couple  of  weeks  before. 

"What's  new?"  I  countered — as  though  the  whole  world 
didn't  know  what's  happened  to  Rosemary  Clooney  in  the 
past  two  years  or  so. 

Rosie  tossed  back  her  mane  of  blonde  hair,  smoothed 
her  tailored  black  wool  suit  as  she  sank  gratefully  into  a 
chair  and  grinned  the  typical  Clooney  smile  at  a  hovering 
waiter. 

"Something  long  and  cool  with  lots  of  ice,"  she  said.  "I 
don't  usually  mind  drinks  without  ice  in  England,"  she 
explained,  "but  this  'unusual  weather'  has  got  me.  Might 
be  back  in  California."     And    (Continued  on  page  84) 


38 


Rosemary  Clooney  Sings  is  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Mondays,  from  9  to  9:15  P.M.  EDT. 


Jose  and  Rosemary  Clooney  Ferrer 
— and  son! — find  the  whole, 
wide,  wonderful  world 
lying  before  them 


WIN  A  VISIT 
WITH  A  STAR 


Break  The  Bank:  Dynamic  emcee  Bert  Parks  congratulates  Jim, 
Betsy  and  Willard  Aliis  after  they  broke  the  bank  for  $5200. 


First-prize  winner  will  be  flown  to  and  from 
New  York  or  Los  Angeles  via  United  Air  Lines. 

An  exciting  weekend  in  New  York 
or  Hollywood,  as  the  guest  of 
Bert  Parks  or  Lawrence  Welk,  can  be 
yours — almost  for  the  asking ! 

How  WOULD  YOU  like  to  live  the  life  of  a 
celebrity — be  the  guest  of  a  celebrity — ^for 
a  fabulous  weekend,  in  New  York  or 
Hollywood?  Sovind  exciting?  Well,  it  will  be 
for  the  lucky  winner  of  this  big  new  contest. 
All  you  have  to  do  is  decide  whom  you  would 
like  to  meet — ^Bert  Parks,  star  of  Break 
The  Bank,  in  New  York — or  the  star  of  The 
Lawrence  Welk  Show,  Maestro  Welk 
himself,  in  Hollywood.  Once  you've  made  your 
choice,  answer  the  ten  questions  selected  by 
Bert  Parks  and  Lawrence  Welk  from  Break 
The  Bank  categories  and,  in  fifty  words  or 
less,  teU  why  you  would  like  to  meet  the  star 
of  your  choice.  Then  mail  in  the  complete 
coupon  on  page  41 — and  start  dreaming  of  a 
delightful  weekend  that  could  happen  to  you! 


Bert  Parks  is  master  of  ceremonies  for  Break  The  Bank, 
on  ABC-TV,  Sun.,  10  P.M.  EDT.  The  Lawrence  Welk 
Show  is  seen  on  ABC-TV,  Sat.,  9  P.M.  EDT.  Both  popular 
programs  are  sponsored  by  the  Dodge  Dealers  of  America. 


The  Lawrence  Welk  Show:  The  maes- 
tro and  his  Champagne  Music  have 
long  been  a  West  Coast  sensation. 


40 


ANSWER  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  QUESTIONS: 


1.  Featured  in  Irving  Berlin's  smash  musical,  "As 
Thousands  Cheer,"  was  the  song,  "Having  a  Heat  Wave." 
The  gal  who  introduced  this  song  is  a  great  singing  star. 
What  is  her  name? 

Answer: 

2.  One  of  the  most  famous  little  girls  in  storyland  and 
movieland  is  the  heroine  of  "The  Wizard  of  Oz."  Judy 
Garland  played  the  movie  role.  What  is  the  name  of  that 
famous  fictional  little  girl  ? 

Answer :  

3.  Gilbert  and  Sullivan  gave  us  many  delightful  tunes.  Re- 
member the  one  about  three  young  ladies  who  sang,  "Three 
little  maids  from  school  are  we"?  Name  the  operetta  in 
which  this  song  was  featured. 

Answer : 

4.  As  a  dancer  she  was  known  as  Lucille  LeSueur,  but  she 
went  to  Hollywood,  changed  her  name  and,  in  the  Roaring 
Twenties,  roared  to  stardom  in  a  movie  called  "Our 
Dancing  Daughters."  What  is  her  name? 

Answer; 

5.  An  all-time  hit,  "Lazy  Bones,"  was  composed  by  a  man 
who  has  many  other  hits  to  his  credit,  including  "Little 
Old  Lady."  Name  this  composer. 

Answer: 


6.  Mexico  has  given  us  many  stars.  One  of  the  most  famous 
was  the  man  who  starred  in  such  big  silent  movies  as 
"Prisoner  of  Zenda,"  and  "The  Student  Prince,"  with 
Norma  Shearer.  Name  this  famous  man. 

Answer : 


7.  A  popular  song  of  not  so  long  ago  was  "The  Carioca," 
which  became  a  smash  hit  over  night.  It  was  featured  in  a 
movie  which  starred  Fred  Astaire  and  Ginger  Rogers. 
Name  that  movie. 

Answer: 


8.  She  was  born  on  Christmas  Eve,  became  famous  as  a 
stage  star  in  "Daddy  Long  Legs,"  then  as  a  movie  star  in 
such  roles  as  "Mrs.  Dodsworth,"  opposite  Walter  Huston. 
W^ho  is  she? 

Answer:  

9.  The  beautiful  "Indian  Summer"  first  came  to  life  as  a 
piano  piece  in  1918,  and  was  well  up  on  the  "Hit  Parade"  of 
1939.  Name  the  great  composer  who  gave  us  "Indian 
Summer." 

Answer: 


10.  This  lovely  actress  was  once  a  schoolteacher,  but  she 
left  her  students  for  starring  roles  in  movies  such  as 
"Lloyds  of  London"  and  "My  Son,  My  Son."  Who  is  she? 

Answer: 


Complete  the  following  sentence  in  50  words  or  less:  I  would  like  to  meet 

(Check  one  only) 

n  BERT  PARKS  IN  NEW  YORK  Q  LAWRENCE  WELK  IN  HOLLYWOOD 


because. 


NAME 

ADDRESS ; 

CITY  or  TOWN STATE. 


Mail   your   entry   to: 

Win    a    Visit    with    a    Star 

TV    Radio    Mirrob 

P.O.  Box  1789 

Grand    Central    Station 

New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


CONTEST  RULES— READ  CAREFULLY 


1.  Each  entry  must  include  the  coupon  containing  your  com- 
plete answers  to  the  ten  questions  above,  plus  your  fifty-word 
statement  saying  why  you  would  like  to  visit  either  Bert  Parks 
in  New  York  or  Lawrence  Welk  in  Los  Angeles. 

2.  Address  entries  to:  Win  a  Visit  with  a  Star,  TV  Radio 
Mirror,  P.O.  Box  1789,  Grand  Central  Sta.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

3.  This  contest  ends  midnight,  Friday,  October  7,  1955.  Entries 
postmarked  after  that  date  will  hot  be   considered. 

4.  The  first-prize  winner  will  receive  a  weekend  for  two  as 
the  guest  of  Bert  Parks  in  New  York — or  as  the  guest  of 
Lawrence  Welk  in  Los  Angeles — depending  on  the  choice 
specified.  The  winner  wiU  be  flown  to  and  from  New  York 
or  Los  Angeles  by  United  Air  Lines,  will  meet  Bert  Parks  or 
Lawrence  Welk,  stay  at  a  luxurious  hotel,  visit  leading  night 
clubs  and  the  theater.  The  fifty  second-prize  winners  will  each 
receive  a  "Break  the  Bank"  game.  The  fifty  third-prize  win- 


ners will  each  receive  a  Lawrence  Welk  record  album. 

5.  Entries  will  be  judged  on  the  basis  of  accuracy  in  answering 
the  ten  questions  above,  and  originality  in  stating  reasons  for 
wanting  to  meet  either  Bert  Parks  or  Lawrence  Welk,  in  fifty 
words  or  less,  on  the  coupon. 

6.  You  may  submit  more  than  one  entry.  In  case  of  a  tie, 
duplicate  prizes  will  be  awarded.  The  decision  of  the 
judges  will  be  final. 

7.  This  contest  is  open  to  everyone  in  the  United  States  and 
Canada,  except  employees  (and  their  relatives)  of  Macfadden 
Publications,  Inc.,  the  Dodge  Division  of  Chrysler  Corp.,  its 
agencies  and  dealers. 

8.  All  entries  will  become  the  property  of  Macfadden  Publi- 
cations, Inc.  No  correspondence  can  be  entered  into  in  regard 
to  the  entries.  Names  of  all  winners  will  be  announced  in 
the  Janua^  1956  issue  of  TV  Radio  Mirror. 


41 


Tommy  Ret+ig  is  a  growing  boy  and  needs  all  the  energy  foods  I  can  give  him.  He's  also  a  "typical  fan,"  proud  of 
his  autographed  pictures.  And  he  has  great  fun  with  Lassie,  who  "auditioned" — and  chose! — him  for  his  present  TV  role. 


HE  LOVES  A ''lassie'" 


By  MRS.  ROSEMARY  RETTIG 

As  THIRTEEN-YEAR-OLD  Tommy  Rettig's  mother,  I 
^  often  get  letters  like  this:    "Dear  Mrs.  Rettig:    My  son 
has  just  turned  fourteen,  and  overnight  he  has 
become  a  stranger  to  me — we  hardly  talk  the  same 
language  any  more.    Did  you  have  this  problem  when 
Tommy  turned  the  teen-age  corner?    And,  if  so,  how  did 
you  handle  it?" 

Although  much  of  Tommy's  time  is  taken  up  with 
acting  and  the  CBS-TV  Lassie   (Continued  on  page  94) 


Tommy  Rettig  is  Jeff  Miller  in  Lassie,  returning  to  CBS-TV,  Sun., 
Sept.  11,  7  P.M.  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  the  Campbell  Soup  Company. 


Now,  in  his  teens,  a  new  hobby — dancing  at  home,  with  such 
friends  as  Jim  Hookstratten,  Marilyn  Hall  and  Fred  Sabourie. 


But,  now  that  he's  13,  my  son 
Tommy  has  also  discovered  girls — and 
all  the  other  teen-age  problems ! 


He  doesn't  consider  it  work,  playing  with  such 
wonderful  people  as  George  Cleveland  ("Sramps''), 
Jon    Clayton    (his   TV    mother,    Ellen) — and    Lassie. 


42 


%m 


Ernie  clings  to  the  name  "Tennessee"  as  he  clings  to 
the  rewarding  memories  of  his  childhood  on  a  farm. 


Most  of  all,  Ernie  hopes  to  be  the  same  kind  of  dad 
to  Buck  and  Brion  as  his  own  father  has  been  to  him. 


By  BUD  GOODE 


SOME  PEOPLE  think  of  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford,  star  of 
both  NBC-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  as  a  rollicking, 
romping,  riproaring  hvunorist  from  Tennessee.   Yet 
there  is  a  gentleness  of  nature  in  Ernie  that  many 
of  his  listeners  have  sensed  with  their  inner  ear,  and 
many  of  his  viewers  have  seen  with  their  hearts 
as  well  as  their  eyes. 

With  his  booming  bass  voice,  black  hair  and  brown 
eyes,  Ernie  is  ruggedly  handsome.    Yet  his  bigness  of 
frame  surrounds  a  gentle  nature,  the  sort  of  stuff 
that  philosophers  are  made  of.  His  "Ernie-isms"  are 
being  accepted  across  the  country  as  woodsy 
philosophy.   Ernie  is  becoming  a  pea-picker's  Plato. 

It's  the  thoughts  of  a  man,  as  well  as  his  actions, 
that  make  him  a  philosopher.   On  the  Sunday  of  last 
May  29,  for  example,  Ernie  once  again  found  himself 
back  in  the  choir  box  of  the  Anderson  Street  . 
Methodist  Church  in  his  home  town  of  Bristol,  Ten- 
nessee.  He  was  home  as  a  res\Ut  of  a  gigantic 
celebration  held  in  honor  of  the  Tennessee  boy  who 
made  good.  Throughout  the  entire  state.  Governor 
Frank  Clements  had  proclaimed  it  "Tennessee 
Ernie  Ford  Day." 

Though  he  had  traveled  far  and  fast  in  the  past  five 

Continued  ^ 


Life  for  his  children   is  set  in   a   different  scene,   but 
Ernie  has  found  that  the  same  truths  apply  everywhere. 


44 


7%r 


m^ 


California  branch  of  a  fine  Tennessee  family:   Ernie,   wife    Betty,  and  sons  Jeffrey  Buckner  (Buck)  and  Brion  Leonard. 


"Faith,  family  and  friends'' — these  are  the  magic  words 
which  shape  Ernie  Ford's  philosophy  and  set  it  to  music 


45 


Texixiessee's  I=^a±»t2:iers 


(Continued) 


Ernie  now  has  a  pool  'n'  everything.  But  the 
family's  greatest  joy  is  just  "being  together." 


years — from  a  small  Pasadena  radio  station,  to 
Hollywood  radio,  TV  and  recording  contracts,  aU 
topped  by  two  weeks  at  the  London  PaUadiimi — 
none  of  the  experiences  of  his  rocket-like  rise  to 
success  compared  with  the  thrill  that  Ernie  felt  at 
that  moment,  as  he  stood  looking  into  the  upturned 
faces  of  his  family  and  friends. 

There  have  been  moments  in  all  oiur  lives  when 
we've  experienced  an  electric  mental  flash  where  a 
moment  of  pure  vision  spotlights  the  meaning  of 
life.  As  Elrnie  stood  singing  to  his  old  friends  their 
welcoming  smiles  reached  up  to  him.  He  was  en- 
gulfed by  a  great,  warm,  back-at-home  feeling.  It 
was  this  which  prompted  the  sudden  flash  of  in- 
sight: Faith,  family  and  friends — ^these  things,  he 
saw,  were  the  lasting  things  in  life  .  .  .  they  never 
change. 

What  makes  a  man  think  such  a  thought?  What 
are  the  subtle  forces  in  his  background  which,  like 
rivulets — ^when  suddenly  joined  together — ^become  a 
clear  river  of  thought  that  makes  a  man  a  philoso- 
pher? What  has  given  Ernie  Ford  the  background 
for  his  homespun  pea-pickin'  Platoisms? 

From  the  time  he  was  eight  years  old  to  the  time 
he  left  home  at  eighteen,  Tennessee  Ernie  Ford 
lived  on  a  farm  near  Bristol.  "My  dad,"  he  says, 
"was  an  easygoing  man  who  taught  me  many  things. 
'There  are  some  things  in  life,'  he  used  to  say,  'that 
you'U  always  have  to  put  up  with.  You  might  as 
well  get  used  to  thiem.  On  a  farm,  they're  weevils, 
potato  bugs,  late  spring  rains,  and  heavy  winter 
snows.    Son,  youll  just  have  to  get  used  to  them. 

"  'Patience,'  my  dad  said,  'is  best  learned  on  a 
farm.  You  can  be  in  a  hurry  with  your  chores,  but 
with  your  crops  you've  just  got  to  wait  six  months. 
No  amount  of  frettin'  wUl  bring  them  out  of  the 
ground  any  faster.'  And  my  dad  also  taught  me 
that  there's  no  place  on  the  farm  for  worry.  A 
farm  was  meant  for  work.  Worry  never  helped 
crop  or  calf.  When  you've  got  troubles,  you  do  a 
little  bit  about  it  every  day.  The  doin'  wiU  chase 
the  worryin'  away." 

But  a  philosopher  is  made  of  more  than  thoughts. " 
Ernie's  music,  for  example,  has  taught  him  the  rela- 
tion of  the  note  to  the  tune,  the  relation  of  the  part 
to  the  whole;  his  music  has  taught  him  that  first 
things  come  first. 

"I  learned  my  faith  early,"  he  says,  "at  the  knees 
of  my  mother  and  dad.  They  were  very  active  in 
the  church.  In  fact,  the  kids  from  hundreds  of  miles 
around  still  refer  to  my  mother  as  'Aunt  Maude' 
and  my  dad  as  'Uncle  Clarence.'  Dad  has  taken 
these  kids  on  everjrthing  from  picnics  to  'possunv 
hunts. 

"When  I  was  just  two  years  old,"  Ernie  says,  "my 
dad  took  me  into  his  Sunday  School  class,  braggin' 
on  me  that  I  knew  all  the  words  to  'The  Old 
Rugged  Cross.'  I  rightly  don't  know  if  I  did  or  not. 
I  later  sang  tenor  in  the  choir.  After  my  voice 
changed,  I  sang  bass — been  doin'  so  ever  since." 

As  a  result  of  his  interest  in  music,  Ernie  early 
learned  that  in  the  pattern  of  life  there  is  both  good 


^{••■••••■■■•••-•/iter    /i«i"««Kt 
'"^ ' i •■•■■  a  ■■■••  /yi  >  fi, ,,.,  1 «  K  a  ,^ 
**"-  •»  S,,|i»«ti, 


f:4tai«aaaaaa>«/^i 
Jia%«atfaai'*'/'* 

reitiiiaa*'^*'/'** 

rin ^i^        ^a.i^. 


I 


Mother  and  Dad  were  so  proud  when  their  boy  canne  back  to  Bristol  for  the  statewide  "Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Day." 
Ernie  hinnself  was  humble  and  grateful — as  he's  teaching  his  own  sons  to  be — for  all  the  blessings  and  fun  of  life. 


and  bad.  "When  I  was  a  kid,"  Ernie  says,  "I  re- 
member the  preacher,  my  mom  and  dad  and  I  used 
to  go  to  the  jail  to  visit  the  prisoners.  We  took 
cigarettes,  food,  magazines  and  song  books  along, 
and  we  all  sang.  After  the  preacher  read  a  little 
out  of  The  Book,  we'd  sing  again. 

"These  jail  congregations  were  made  up  of  every- 
thing from  murderers  to  chicken  thieves.  I  remem- 
ber how  the  prisoners  pressed  their  faces  up  close 
to  the  bars  and  joined  in  the  singin'.  Their  faces  lit 
up  and  they  all  sounded  real  nice.  You  couldn't  tell 
from  their  faces  which  were  the  hardened  criminals. 
They  all  had  a  soft  spot  in  them  somewhere.  It  was 
clear  to  me  then  that,  in  {Continued  cm  pagelS) 


Tennessee  Ernie  Ford  Show,  seen  on  NBC-TV,  M-F,  12  noon 
EDT,  sponsored  by  Procter  &  Gamble  (for  Dreft  and  Tide), 
Miles  Laboratories  (makers  of  Alka-Seltzer),  and  others. 
Tennessee  Ernie  Show,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  7:05  P.M.  EDT,  as 
sponsored  by  Philip  Morris  Cigarettes,  and   NoDoz,  others. 


Rosemary  plays  Bob  Cummings'  sister  on  his  hilorious 
show.  Ann   B.    Davis  (left)   is   his  assistant,    Schultzie. 


A  FULL   LIFE 

Rosemary  DeCamp  (alias  Bob  Cummings'  sister) 
loves  every  moment  of  her  busy,  sunlit  days 

BY  FREDDA  BALLING 


SEPtJLVEDA  Boulevard  (alias  U.S.  Highway  101-A)  is  a 
colorful  sight  in  itself,  as  it  passes  through  a  series  of 
Southern  California  beach  cities.  There  are  antique  shops, 
bait  shacks,  pet  hospitals  along  the  way,  and  occasional 
glimpses  of  tiie  sparkling  Pacific.  The  newest  cars  travel  its 
many  lanes,  coastal  shipping  passes  near  the  shore,  the 
most  modem  planes  zoom  overhead  from  near-by  airports. 
But,  frequently,  the  most  colorful  sight  along  Sepulveda  is 
lovely  Rosemary  DeCamp  (alias  sister  Margaret  MacDonald 
of  The  Boh  Cummings  Show).  {Continued  on  page 69) 

The  Bob  Cummings  Show,  on  CBS-TV,  Thurs.,  8  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by 
the  R.  J.  Reynolds  Tobacco  Company  for  Winston  Cigarettes.  Previous 
episodes  can  be  seen  on  NBC-TV,  Sun.,  10:30  P.M.  EDT,  thru  September. 


Left:  Her  husband  is  Judge  John  Shidler,  and  their  daughters 
are  "Margaret,  12;  Martha,  9;  Valerie,  7;  Nita  Louise,  3.  Below: 
Margaret  reads  at  bedtime  to  her  sisters — and  mother  Rosemary. 


*■      ^^7/ 


V 


Dad    leaves    for    work    before    Mother — and 
"Neats"  (Nita   Louise)  wants  a  big  kiss,  too. 


All  Rosemary's  leisure  is  spent  with  her 
girls.   Above,   a   game  with    Margaret. 


The  youngsters  are  always  in  something.  Here 
it's  good,  gooey  paints  for  Martha  and  Neats. 


49 


i 


^mam 


Two  wonderful  people — Peg  Lynch 
and  Alan  Bunce,  who  are  happily 
married — but  not  to  each  other! 

By  MARTIN  COHEN 


ALAN  BuNCE,  who  co-stars  in  Ethel 
And  Albert,  was  at  home  in  his  built- 
in-1750  clapboard  house  when  one  of 
his  sons  got  tangled  in  a  crazy  phone  call. 
"What's  it  all  about?"  Pop  asked. 
"They  want  Peg — Peg  Bunce,"   number 
two  son  reported.     "They  insist  there  is 
a  Peg  Bunce  here." 

Alan  grinned.     After  eleven  years,  he  is 
used  to  it.     So  is  Peg  Lynch,  who  is  the 
other  half  of  the  Ethel  And  Albert  team. 
Very  often,  people  insist — to  Peg's  and 
Alan's  faces — that  they  must  be  married. 
The  reason  is  simple  and  flattering: 


See  IVext  Page- 


Peg  Lynch  and  Alan  Bunce  (atiove)  ore  so  real  as  Ethel  and  Albert  (at  left),  viewers  believe  they're  actually  husband  and 
wife.  But  here  are  their  true-life  fannilies,  gathered  on  the  lawn  of  Peg's  Connecticut  home:  Fronn  left  to  right — Alan  and  his 
daughter  Jill  (Virginia);  Peg's  aunt,  Mrs.  Helen  Renning;  Peg's  mother,  Mrs.  Frances  Lynch;  Alan's  son  Elliott;  little  Elise  Astrld 
and  her  mama.  Peg  Lynch;  Peg's  husband,  Odd  Knut  Ronning;  Alan's  son  Lanny  (Alan  Nugent)  and  Alan's  wife,  Ruth  Bunce! 


'J.-rl  I 


•:!*>c' 


:lIIJi 


l"*^ 


.^-^ 


It- 


■MM 


mmmm 


Mama  Peg  Is  off  to  become  her  other  self,  Ethel. 
But  Use's  in  good  hands,  with  Grandmother  Lynch. 


"Use,"  at  four,  looks  like  Odd,  acts  like  Peg,  has  a  brightness  all 
her  own.   "We're  not  rushing  her,"  says   Peg.   "She's   rushing   us!" 


'Me/em^Qmed 


{Continued) 


Albert  at  home:  At  the  piano,  left  to  right — son 
Elliott,  Ruth  and  Alan  Bunce,  daughter  Jill,  son 
Lanny.  Below,  the  Bunces'  German  shepherd  looks 
the  other  way,  as  Alan  and  Ruth  raid  the  vines. 


Actually,  there's  plenty  of  playtime  for  both  Use  and  her  porents,  at  their  charming  country  home,   when   Peg  Isn't 
writing,  producing,  acting  in  Ethel  And  Albert  and  Odd   Ronning  Isn't  busy  with  his  work  as  a  consultant  engineer. 


Their  domestic  skirmishes  on  TV  look  as  though 
they're  really  being  played  for  keeps.  Peg  and  Alan 
know  what  they  sire  about,  for  both  are  very  much 
married — ^but  not  to  each  other. 

The  second  question  that  always  comes  up  is  this: 
Are  Peg  and  Alan  in  private  life  anything  like  what 
they  appear  to  be  on  the  show?     Well  .  .  . 

TV's  Albert  Arbuckle  is  inclined  to  be  a  little  boast- 
ful— Alan  Bunce  is  self-effacing.  Albert  Arbuckle 
bumbles  quite  a  bit — Alan  gets  to  the  point  rather 
quickly.  And  Alan  Bunce  himself,  for  all  of  his  first- 
rate  TV  clowning,  is  quite  serious.  He  was  president 
of  the  New  York  chapter  of  AFTRA  for  two  terms  and 


then  president  of  the  whole  national  organization  for 
another  two  terms.  This  is  not  an  office  given  a  man 
who  is  frivolous. 

And  Peg  Lynch? 

"Well,  I'll  tell  you,"  Alan  says.  "Peg's  got  a  great 
sense  of  humor.  That's  obvious  from  her  perform- 
ance and  the  kind  of  script  she  turns  out — but  she 
hardly  ever  laughs  at  my  jokes." 

Peg  may  not  laugh  at  a  joke,  but  sometimes  that's 
flattering:  The  better  the  joke,  the  busier  Peg  is  ana- 
lyzing it.  She's  got  a  big,  well-oiled,  powerful  brain, 
and  she's  got  into  the  habit  of  using  it.  She's  a  hard- 
working gal.     She  owns  the   {Continued  on  page  79) 


Ethel  And  Albert,  starring  Peg  Lynch  and  Als^n  Bunce,  CBS- TV,  Mon.,  9:30  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Instant  Maxwell  House  Coffee*, 


Below,  at  right — Alan  and  Ruth  have  an  historic  old  house  in  Connecticut,  too,  dating  back  to  the  Revolution.  Below, 
at  left — a   strictly  family  foursome,   with   Lanny  and   Elliott  on  this  side  of  the  ne't,  Jill  and  their  dad  on  the  other. 


lik'i  mk  (HI 

lvl0^8ll 


NBC  gives  new  meaning  to 
weekend  listening  as  it  presents 
a  spectacular  parade  of  personalities 
and  events  throughout  the  world 


SINCE  last  June,  NBC  has  been  providing  its  listeners 
with  a  weekend  magic  carpet,  called  Monitor,  which 
reaches  any  place  in  the  world  where  there  is  something 
of  interest  or  importance,  with  the  mere  push  of  a  button. 
With  a  format  as  flexible  as  a  rubberband,  Monitor  snaps 
into  action  each  Saturday  at  8  A.M.  and  bounces  through 
forty  hours  bi  continuous  entertainment.   Some  of  the  big- 
gest names  in  show  business  serve  as  "communicators," 
handling  four-hour  segments  of  the  program,  while  other 
celebrities  appear  intermittently  as  featured  performers. 
At  one  moment.  Monitor  may  take  listeners  to  a  night  club 
for  a  jazz  session,  to  a  Broadway  theater  during  play 
rehearsal,   to   a   championship   sports   event,    a   wedding — 
even  into  the  ocean  to  hear  oysters  laughing.    On  the 
purely   practical    side,    there    are   frequent   time    signals, 
weather  and  traffic  reports,  local  and  worldwide  news. 
Monitor  listeners   are   certainly   familiar  with  the   bleep- 
bleep  toiies  heard  periodically.   This  is  Monitor's  unique 
trademark — which,  actually,  is  a  distortion  of  the  high- 
frequency  tones  heard  when  making  a  long-distance 
telephone  call.   Thus  far.  Monitor  has  made  great  strides  in 
revolutionizing  the  purpose  and  function  of  radio  and,  as 
long  as  listeners  "stay  aboard"  its  magic  carpet,  they  can 
look  forward  to  even  more  unusual  horizons  ahead. 


FRANK  BLAIR,  handsome  Monitor  com- 
municator, who,  at  39,  is  a  20-year  veteran  of 
broadcasting,  is  also  one  of  NBC's  busiest 
news  commentators.  A  native  of  South 
Carolina,  Frank  forsook  a  pre-med  course 
to  join  a  stock  company  as  a  director.  A 
few  months  later  he  took  one  of  the  com- 
pany's actresses  as  his  wife,  then  joined  a 
Charleston  station  as  a  newscaster.  Subse- 
quently, he  switched  his  news  activities  to 
Washington,  served  in  the  Navy,  moved  to 
New  York  in  1953.  Frank,  wife  Lillian  and 
their  seven  children  now  live  in  Irvington. 


MORGAN  BEATTY,  another  communicator, 
has  been  broadcasting  to  NBC  listeners  of 
the  top-rated  program  News  Of  The  World 
for  nine  years.  Born  in  Little  Rock,  Arkan- 
sas, he  became  a  newspaper  reporter  while 
still  in  high  school.  After  attending  college 
in  Kentucky  and  Missouri,  he  was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Associated  Press  from  1927  to 
1941,  when  he  joined  NBC  as  military  analyst. 
The  next  year  he  was  a  war  correspondent 
from  London,  then  a  Washington  correspond- 
ent until  1946,  when  he  became  editor-in- 
chief  of  News  Of  The  World.  Morgan  lives 
near  Washington  with  his  wife  and  two  sons. 


I 


fl' 


NBC  President  Sylvester  L.  Weaver,  Jr.  sits  in  on  a  Monitor  session  handled  by  communicators  Clifton  Fadiman,  Walter  Kiernan, 
Morgan  Beotty  and  Dave  Sarroway.   Behind  thenn  is  Radio  Central,  the  $150,000  push-button  "listening  post  of  the  world." 


JOHN    CAMERON    SWAYZE 

takes  time  out  from  "hop- 
scotching  the  world  for  head- 
lines" on  his  nightly  TV  News 
Caravan,  to  preside  as  a  com- 
mvmicator  on  a  Monitor  segment. 


DAVE  GARROWAY.  always 
"at  peace"  on  or  away  from 
his  marathon  radio  and  TV 
schedule,  also  lends  his  easy- 
going nature  to  a  four-hour 
slice  of  Monitor  entertainment. 


CLIFTON   FADIMAN.  who  for 

many  years  has  combined  his 
great  talents  as  an  author,  editor, 
critic  and  lecturer  with  radio- 
TV  emceeing,  is  right  at  home 
as  a  Monitor  communic?*^or. 

See   Next   Page 3 


55 


iUi  (ob  Oil 

MONITOR 


{Continued) 


PAULINE  FREDERICK.  NBC's  diplomatic 
reporter,  and  the  only  woman  network  news 
commentator,  has  filled  her  hfe  with  "firsts" 
and  "onlys."  After  earning  her  B.A.  and  M.A. 
at  American  University  in  Washington,  D.C., 
she  launched  her  journalism  career  by  inter- 
viewing the  wives  of  Washington  diplomats 
for  the  Washington  Star.  Since  then,  Paul- 
ine's traveled  aroxind  the  globe,  covering  war 
trials,  spy  trials,  presidential  conventions  and 
inaugurations.  In  1947,  she  was  the  only  wo- 
man on  a  B-29  mission  to  the  inauguration 
of  the  President  of  Uruguay.  She  was  also 
the  only  woman  commentator  to  cover  the 
opening  of  the  Council  of  Foreign  Ministers 
in  Paris,  the  lifting  of  the  Berlin  Blockade, 
and  the  Korean  crisis  in  the  U.N.  One  of  her 
latest  firsts,  on  Monitor,  occurred  at  the  10th 
Anniversary  celebration  of  the  U.N.  in  San 
Francisco,  when  she  got  the  first  American 
radio  broadcast  with  Russia's  V.  M.  Molotov. 


Monitor  covers  the  world  for  NBC  Radio  from  8  A.M.  EDT  on 
Sat.  to  12  midnight,  Sun.,  and  includes  regularly  scheduled 
network   shows   and   frequent   "breaks"   for   local-station   news. 


ART  BUCHWALD.  Monitor's  roving  Euro- 
pean correspondent,  travels  about  the  con- 
tinent. Armed  with  his  tape  recorder,  Art 
chats  with  noted  Americans-in-Paris,  foreign 
diplomats,  and  the  man  on  the  street — ^from 
cab  driver  to  gendarme.  Art,  who  has  re- 
galed New  York  Herald  Tribune  readers  for 
several  years  with  his  column,  "P.  S.  from 
.  .  .",  was  born  in  Mount  Vernon,  New  York, 
thirty  years  ago.  At  16,  he  joined  the  Marines, 
and  spent  18  months  in  the  South  Pacific. 
After  his  discharge,  Art  studied  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Southern  California  until  1948, 
when  he  received  a  $250  war  bonus  check 
and  with  it  bought  himself  a  one-way  ticket 
to  France.  When  his  resources  approached 
nil.  Art  got  a  job  with  Variety,  next  joined 
the  European  edition  of  the  Herald  Tribune. 
Happily  married  and  "gaining  weight  every 
day,"  Art  is  at  his  best  as  he  records  the  off- 
the-cuff  remarks  of  the  people  he  interviews. 


56 


AL  "JAZZBO"  COLLINS,  whose  soothing 
voice  leads  Monitor  listeners  through  a  Sat- 
urday night  session  of  dance  music,  is  a  big 
man — in  size  and  musical  know-how.  A  native 
of  New  York,  he  majored  in  radio  at  the 
University  of  Miami,  and  has  worked  at 
many  stations.  Last  winter,  after  four  years 
at  WNEW  in  New  York,  Al  moved  to  NBC. 
When  he  comes  down  from  his  "cloud,"  he 
lives  with  his  wife  Shirley  on  Long  Island. 


HENRY  MORGAN,  satirist  extraordinary, 
holds  the  extraordinary  position  on  Monitor 
of  TV  reviewer,  and  relays  his  bizarre  ob- 
servations to  listeners.  In  1933,  20-year-old 
Henry  became  the  youngest  announcer  in 
radio.  Since  then,  he  has  startled  and  de- 
lighted audiences  with  his  "inspired  chaos," 
on  a  variety  of  radio  and  TV  shows.  A 
bachelor,  Henry  has  an  apartment  in  Man- 
hattan where  he  reads  avidly — and  "thinks." 


LEON  PEARSON,  who  brings  Monitor  lis- 
teners up-to-the-minute  reviews  of  Broad- 
way plays  and  movies,  has  been  with  NBC 
for  eight  years  as  a  news  commentator  and 
critic-at-large.  A  Swarthmore  graduate,  he 
earned  his  M.A.  at  Harvard,  became  a  news- 
paper columnist  and  news  commentator, 
then  a  globe-trotting  member  of  the  Inter- 
national News  Service.  He  has  won  praise 
for   covering   the   U.N.    since    its   inception. 


RAY   GOULDING   and   BOB   ELLIOTT, 

better  known  as  just  Bob  and  Ray,  also  serve 
Monitor  as  critics-at-large — largely  humor- 
ous. The  master  cut-ups  from  Boston,  who 
have  been  a  radio  and  TV  team  for  almost 
ten  years,  are  apt  to  pop  up  any  time 
throughout  the  weekend  with  their  "cast" 
— from  Mary  McGoon  to  Steve  Bosco — to 
present  an  off-beat  review  of  a  sports  or 
stage    event,    or   offer   a    special   "bargain." 


57 


As  daughter,  wife,  mother — and  beloved  star — Arlene  Francis  has  earned  and  thoroughly  enjoys 


fk^tffi^iW 

^ 

'-P^  '  ,  :■ 

■yV^fan 

^.^ 

f/ 

f 

C_ 

Ariene  and  her  husband,  Martin  Sabel, 
share  all  their  son  Peter's  interests — from 
pint-sized  magazines  to  parlor  football. 


By  HELEN  BOLSTAD 


A  CERTAIN  magazine  writer,  well  known  for  his  bitter 
exposes  of  prominent  personalities,  once  concluded  an  hours- 
long  interview  with  Arlene  Francis  by  saying,  "That's 
enough  sweetness  and  light.  Now  give  me  the  names  of  some 
people  who  don't  like  you.  I  need  to  get  some 
conflict  into  this  story." 

Although  a  bit  taken  aback,  Arlene  laughed  and  tried 
to  comply.  But,  after  a  minute,  she  shook  her  head. 
"Obviously  there  must  be  some,  but  apparently  I  just  haven't 
cultivated  them.  I  can't  think  where  to  send  you." 

Remarking  that  he  would  find  such  informants  for  himself, 
the  writer  departed.  His  air  was  confident.  Human  nature 
being  what  it  is,  he  might  well  have  expected  that  a  woman  who 
divides  her  life  among  husband,  child,  television,  theater — 
and  innumeirable  charities — ^must,  through  the  sheer  pressure  of 
time,  have  stepped  on  a  few  super-sensitive  toes.  Also,  that 
a  woman  so  successful  in  all  her  endeavors  must  certainly  have 
aroused  some  sharp-tongued  person's  warped  jealousy. 

The  result  of  his  search  (Continued  on  page  89) 

Arlene  Francis  is  editor-in-chief  of  Home,  NBC-TV,  M-F,  11  A.M.  EDT  and 
PDT,  and  its  preceding  program,  People  At  Home,  10:45  A.M.  EDT,  under 
participating  sponsorship.  She  is  hostess  of  Soldier  Parade,  ABC-TV,  Thurs., 
8  P.M.  EDT,  for  U.S.  Army  Recruiting,  and  a  panelist  on  fT hat's  My  Line?, 
CBS-TV,    Sun.,    at    10:30    P.M.    EDT,    for    Remington    Rand    and    Stopette. 


On  the   mantel,   her   mother's   photo- 
graph— on  stairway,  an  oil  painting  of 
son  Peter  by  actress  Claire  Trevor. 


t 


I.  Mother  Burton  has  never  been  able  to  resist  interfering  In  her  children's  lives.  But,  now  that  she  is  engaged  to  nnarry 
Buck  Holllday,  she  has  found  a- new  life  of  her  own.  Her  daughter-in-law  Terry  is  delighted  at  the  results  of  her  plan  to 
bring  Mother  Burton  and  Buck  together,  but,  as  she  admires  the  engagement  ring,   Stan   Burton  disapproves  strongly. 


60 


the  SECOND  Mrs.  BURTON 


RECENTLY,  Mother  Grace  Burton  has  been  feeling  as 
gay  and  young  as  a  June  bride.  Not  that  the  "Dow- 
ager Duchess  of  Dickston"  has  lost  any  of  her  regal 
manner  or  envisions  yielding  any  of  the  matriarchal 
claims  which  have  always  served  as  a  constant  reminder 
to  her  daughter-in-law  Terry  that  she  is  "the  second 
Mrs.  Burton."  Only  that,  silver-haired  and  still  a  hand- 
some woman,  Mother  Burton  is  having  a  December  ro- 
mance. 

Long  a  widow,  Mother  Burton  reigns  as  head  of  Dick- 
ston's  most  influential  family.  It  is  a  position  the  strong- 
"/illed  woman  thoroughly  enjoys — although  her  efforts  to 
iominate  and  guide  the  lives  of  her  son  Stan  and  his  wife 
Terry,  and  her  daughter  Marcia  and  her  husband  Lew 
Archer,  have  sometimes  proved  to  be  destructive.  Certain 
that  she  and  she  alone  loiows  what  is  best,  Mother  Bur- 
ton has  been  eager  to  protect  her  family,  laying  down  the 
law  rather  than  letting  them  make — and  correct — their 
own  mistakes. 

With  her  magnetic  personality.  Mother  Burton  might 
achieve  more  by  giving  suggestions  only,  rather  than  the 
meddlesome  tactics  she  has  used.  But  her  desire  for  con- 
trol has  been  too  strong  for  Mother  Burton  ever  to  resist 
interfering.  This  has  aroused  resentment  among  the  sec- 
ond and  even  the  third  generation  of  Burtons — all  of 
whom  seem  to  have  inherited  Mother  Burton's  strong- 
mindedness.  But,  as  Mother  Burton  meddles  in  their 
lives  and  tries  to  dictate  policy  on  the  family  newspaper, 
she  is  moved  by  a  fear  that  she  refuses  to  admit — the  fear 
of  spending  her  last  years  alone  in  Burton  Towers,  the 
large  mansion  in  which  she  would  like  her  children, 
though  married  and  with  families  of  their  own,  to  live 
with  her. 

Terry  has  long  recognized  this  fear  of  her  mother-in- 
law's.  When  her  own  father  recently  married  again,  late 
in  life,  it  occurred  to  Terry  that — if  Mother  Burton  did 
the  same — it  might  be  the  solution  to  keeping  the  matri- 
archal widow  from  interfering  in  her  children's  lives. 
For,  if  Mother  Burton  found  a  romantic  interest  of  Jier 
own,  she  might  be  too  occupied  to  interfere  in  her  chil- 
dren's lives. 

With  this  idea  in  mind,  Terry  and  Marcia  drove  from 
Dickston  to  Poughkeepsie  to  learn  something  about  Buck 
Halliday,  the  widower  who  had  once  been  a  beau  of 
Grace  Deever's  and  was  John  Burton's  strongest  rival  be- 
fore Grace  married  John  some  thirty-five  years  ago.  The 
girls  had  called  on  Buck,  found  him  a  bluff,  somewhat 
flamboyant,  hearty  and  quite  Hkable  man.  They  sug- 
gested that  he  call  on  Mother  Burton,  and  they  asked 
that  he  keep  their  visit  a  secret. 

The  wealthy  real-estate  dealer  has  followed  the  girls' 
suggestion,  and  he  and  Mother  Burton  have  found  that 
the  attraction  they  felt  for  each  other  in  their  younger 
days  still  stands.  The  romance  blossoms  as  Buck  and 
Grace  have  frequent  dinners  together,  make  a  trip  to  the 
theater  in  New  York  and  discover,  in  their  middle-aged 
courtship,  the  pleasure  of  each  other's  companionship. 

Marcia  and  Lew  Archer  and  Terry  are  delighted  with 
the  way  matters  are  progressing.  But  Stan  takes  an  im- 
mediate and  strong  dislike  to  Buck.  As  Mother  Burton's 
only  son,  Stan  has  had  to  fight  hard  not  to  be  strangled 
by  her  apron  strings.  But  now  he  objects  to  the  idea  of 
his  mother's  marriage — objects  almost  without  knowing 
why.     He  searches  for  faults  in  Buck,  but  his  objection 


A  December  romance  reveals  a  new 
aspect  of  Mother  Burton — and  promises 
changes  for  all  those  near  to  her 


^*^.. 


2.  Behind  Mofher  Burton's  haughty  veneer  has  always  been 
the  fear  of  a  lonely  old  age.  Now,  this  fear  vanishes  as 
she  plans  her  marriage  to  bluff,  flamboyant  Buck  Halliday. 


See  Next  Page- 


the  SECOND  Mrs.  BURTON 

(Continued) 


3.  As  she  helps  Mother  Burton  with  her  trousseau,  Terry 
draws  closer  to  her  mother-in-law  and  discovers  a  new 
warmth  where  she  had  formerly  found  only  haughtiness. 


Pictured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Terry    Burton Patsy    Campbell 

Stan  Burton. Dwight  Weist 

Mother  Burton Ethel  Owen 

Buck   Halliday Howard    Smith 

The  Second  Mrs.  Burton,  _^eard  over  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  2  P.M. 
EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Hazel  Bishop  "Stay-On"  Cosmetics  (for 
Long-Lasting  Lipstick,  Compart  Make-up  and  Complexion 
Glow), General  Foods  (Instant  Swans  Down  Cake  Mixes),  other?. 


only  fires  Mother  Burton's  interest  in  her  suitor.  Fi- 
nally, despite  Stan's  protests,  she  accepts  Buck's  pro- 
posal of  marriage. 

Stan  cannot  even  protest  that  Buck  might  be  marry- 
ing his  mother  for  her  money  or  that  the  marriage 
might  deprive  him  of  his  inheritance.  For  both  Buck 
and  Grace  are  more  than  secure  financially  and  have 
signed  an  agreement  that  their  fortunes  will  go  to  their 
respective  families. 

Then  the  subject  of  where  Buck  and  Mother  Burton 
are  to  live  arises.  Buck  insists  that  they  live  in  Pough- 
keepsie,  where  he  is  successfully  engaged  in  the  real 
estate  business.  But  Mother  Burton  cannot  think  of 
leaving  Dickston — where  she  reigns  as  social  leader — or 
Burton  Towers,  where  she  reigns  as  family  matriarch. 
Both  are  adamant  in  refusing  to  give  up  a  home  that 
means  so  much  to  each  of  them.  As  a  result,  the  en- 
gagement is  off  and  on  and  off  again,  as  they  quibble 
abput  the  matter.  Finally,  Buck  gives  in  and  says  that 
he  will  live  in  Dickston.  As  this  point,  Mother  Burton 
remorsefully  and  romantically  offers  to  live  in  Pough- 
keepsie. 

During  these  quarrels  over  their  future  home,  Stan 
claims  that  these  disagreements  prove  Buck  and  his 
mother  are  not  really  in  love.  When  the  engagement  is 
"off,"  Stan  is  pleased.  When  the  romance  resumes,  he 
is  unhappy. 

Plans  for  the  wedding  move  ahead,  as  Mother  Burton 
shops  for  a  trousseau  and  makes  plans  for  the  reception. 
Stan  watches  gloomily,  and  even  Terry,  Marcia  and  Lew 
— ^who  approve  of  the  marriage'— must  pause  every  now 
and  then  to  wonder  whether  this  December  romance  is 
really  a  wise  step.  Can  the  marriage  which  is  now  up- 
permost in  all  their  minds  really  work  out?  Terry  is 
optimistic — but,  whatever  happens,  will  this  really 
change  her  own  position  as  the  second  Mrs.  Burton? 


4.  The  engagement  flounders  as  Buck  argues  that  he  must 
live  near  his  real-estate  business  in  Poughkeepsie  and 
Mother  Burton   refuses  to  leave  her  home  in   Dickston. 


62 


5.  Roses  have  always  been  particularly  dear  to  Mother  Burton.  When  Buck  chooses  this  way  of  saying  he'll  live  in  Dickston, 
she  rennorsefully  agrees  to  live  wherever  he  likes.  Terry  sees  the  December  romance  full  of  promise  of  happy  years  to  come 
for  Mother  Burton.  But  Stan,   Mother  Burton's  only  son,  views  the  wedding  plans  unhappily.  Are  his  doubts  justified? 


63 


Above,  baby  Kathy  with  big  brother  Arthur  in  those 
childhood  days  at  Hasbrouck  Heights,  NJ.  Below,  Mrs. 
Godfrey,  the  gallant  mother  they  both  admire  so  much. 


fy 


So  like  her  brother  Arthur  in  her 
vivacity  and  courage,  but  with  a 
feminine  wit  and  charm  all  her  own 

By  GLADYS  HALL 


THERE  MAY  BE  warmer,  folksier,  more  eager  and 
outgoing  people  in  the  world  than  Kathy  Godfrey — 
but  I  doubt  it.  We  met  the  other  day  for  the  first 
time,  at  Cyrano's,  the  little  French  restaurant  Kathy 
frequents  in  New  York's  middle  Fifties.  And,  in  less 
than  nothing  fiat,  it  was  heart-to-heart,  woman-to- 
woman  talk  such  as  Kathy  might  have  exchanged 
with  a  schoolgirl  chum  from  her  old  home  town  of 
Hasbrouck  Heights,  New  Jersey,  or  with  a  good 
neighbor  out  in  Arizona,  where  her  home  is  now. 

Before  we  parted,  an  hour  or  two  later,  I — who 
had  known  very  little  of  Kathy  Godfrey,  other  than  that 
she  is  Arthur's  sister  and  has  her  own  network  show 
on  CBS  Radio — learned  that  she  is  married  to  Dr.  Robert 


Now  Kathy  has  her  own  children — a  daughter,  18,  just  wed 
— and  son  Robin,  I  I ,  who  visits  Kathy  in  New  York  (below). 


64 


A: 


-A^>^ 


?^'' 


^ 


^r'AP* 


A 


«*<:. 


\ 


..» 


1^^' 

m«Mi 

riS 

■jSSS^jB 

M 

1 
1 

^ 

"  'f^fitS 


^> 


^ 


tit  '  ■ 


There  are  so  many  sides  to  our  Miss  Godfrey:  Her  valiant  battle  against  polio  ,  .  .  her  warnn  love  of 
"people"  .  .  .  and  her  enthusiasm  for  her  programs,  which  let  her  meet  and  talk  with  many,  many  people. 


See  Next  Page  m 


Q  f^  Q^m^ 


{ContinuzA') 


Ripley  .  . .  lives  in  a  ranch  house  a  short  distance  outside 
a  Western  city  .  .  .  has  two  children — her  married 
daughter,  Nancy,  eighteen,  and  son  Robin,  who  is  eleven 
.  .  .  that  two  English  bulls  (Snifty  and  Christopher 
Robin) ,  an  outsize  collie  (Nicholas  the  Great) ,  a  guinea 
pig,  two  parakeets,  two  ducks  and  three  tanks  of  tropical 
fish  (belonging  to  son  Robin)  are  "the  other  members  of 
the  family"  .  .  .  and  that  "Rosalie  the  Indispensable" 
minds  the  house  while  Kathy,  in  New  York,  minds  the 
mike! 

Friendly  is  the  word — perhaps  the  aptest  ^nd  most 
fitting  word  in  the  dictionary — for  Kathy  Godfrey.  Yet 
there  are  so  many  words  to  describe  her: 

Pretty,  for  instance.  Kathy  is  very  pretty.  Sapphire 
blue  eyes,  dark-lashed.  Dark  hair,  chestnut  brown  with 
russet  lights  in  it.  Slim — 117  pounds  slim.  Five-foot-five 
in  height.  Chic.  And,  although  you  can't  pinpoint  it, 
there  is  a  resemblance  to  brother  Arthur,  despite  the 
difference  in  coloring.  Perhaps  it's  the  way  she  laughs, 
or  an  expression  in  the  eyes — a  "family  resemblance." 
All  this,  plus  a  husky  voice  which  has  been  described 
as  "a  combination  of  Jean  Arthur  and  Margaret  Sulla- 
van,  with  just  a  hint  of  Loretta  Young!" 

Courageous.  Definitely,  Kathy  has-courage.  The  never- 
say-die  brand  of  courage  which  enabled  her,  after 
being  stricken  with  paralytic  polio  at  the  age  of  eighteen, 
to  walk  again  ...  to  marry  and  bear  children  .  .  .  and 


to  have  a  career — a  progressively  more  and  more  suc- 
cessful career  in  the  field  she  loves  with  an  abiding 
love. 

And  happy.  For,  when  the  talk  turns  to  the  Big  Deal 
in  her  life  as  of  now — the  Kathy  Godfrey  Show  on  CBS 
Radio — ^her  happiness  simply  shines!  The  show  itself  is 
a  happy  one,  featuring  guests,  not  just  because  they're 
singers  or  dancers  or  "names" — ^not  even  because  they're 
the  little  tailor,  age  87,  from  the  Bronx,  or  the  carnival 
barker  or  the  understudy  who  were  among  her  early 
visitors  on  the  program — but  because  something  nice 
has  happened  to  them,  something  happy  which  they 
can  pass  on  to  you  and  me. 

Spiritual,  too,  is  a  word  that  belongs  to  Kathy  God- 
frey. For — earthy  as  she  is,  and  human  as  can  be,  and 
gay — there  is  spiritual  quality  about  Kathy,  and  you 
feel  it.  What  you  feel  is  her  faith,  her  own  particular 
and  proven  faith,  of  which  she  says:  "I'm  pretty  solid 
in  my  belief  in  the  power  of  positive  thought.  I  really  do 
believe  this — that,  if  you  want  something,  really  want  it, 
you  will  get  it." 

She  should  believe  it.  It  worked  for  her.  For,  when 
polio  hit  Kathy  and  doctor  after  doctor  told  her  she 
would  never  walk  again  (some  even  questioned  whether 
she  wotild  ever  be  able  to  stand  again) — she  walked 
again. 

Today,  the  active  and  agile  (Continued  on  page  96) 


The  Kathy  Godfrey  Show  is  heard  over  CBS  Radio,  Sun.,  from  2:05  to  2:30  P.  M.  EDT. 


Kathy  would  love  to  do  a  show  with  a  panel  of  New  York  taxi  drivers,  "who  know  everything  about 
everything."  Below,  son  Robin  agrees  that  cabbie   Morton  Weinberg  really  seems  to  know  his  stuff! 


67 


Uo  you  really 


know  yourself? 


W  IFE  is  unpredictable.  Nobody  can  say  for  certain  what 
problems    tomorrow   will   bring,    but   if   you   know 
yourself,  how  you  react,  what  you  want  out  of  life,  you 
can  meet  problems  with  the  odds  all  on  your  side. 

How  would  you  act  if  in-laws  were  spoiling 
your  children?  What  would  you  do  if  the 
man  you  love  turned  to  someone  else?  If 
you  had  more  money,  would  you  know  how 
to  use  it  well?  Have  you  found  faith  and 
learned  to  live  with  God? 


Life's  problems  are  many.  Happiness  can  be  just 
around  the  corner  or  can  be  gone  forever.  You  will  want 
to  capture  it  for  yourself  and  for  your  family. 

You  can  learn  to  know  yourself  better  by  reading  True 
Story — the  magazine  of  human  problems  told  by  the 
people  who  lived  them.  These  people  are  not  rich  or 
famous;  they  are  ordinary  folk  who  have  come  through 
one  of  life's  many  trials  and  learned  some  important 
truth  they  want  to  share. 

How  would  you  have  acted  in  their  place? 
Would  you  have  done  as  well — or  worse? 
Could  you  have  avoided  the  problem  entirely? 


Only  when  you  have  known  the  innermost  feelings  of 
others  can  you  know  your  own  feelings.  Only  when  you 
understand  others  can  you  claim  to  understand  yourself. 

This  sharing  of  human  experience  in  a  complicated 
world  is  the  idea  behind  True  Story.  It  is  carried  out 
even  in  the  homemaking,  child-care,  beauty,  and  self- 
improvement  features.  The  Editors  who  conduct  these 
important  departments  were  chosen  not  only  for  their 
thorough  knowledge  of  the  subject  but  for  their  broad 
experience  with  people  and  how  they  live,  their  eager- 
ness to  talk  with  readers  and  learn  their  opinions.  Recipes, 
for  example,  come  from  readers.  They  are  tested  scien- 
tifically in  the  True  Story  kitchen  but  they  have  first 
been  tested  and  found  good  by  a  housewife  and  her  family. 

If  you  believe  that  you  can  learn  from  your  neigh- 
bors, if  you  believe  that  in  the  long  run  the  sum  of  human 
experience  is  the  surest  guide,  if  you  believe  that  the 
effort  to  understand  yourself  and  other  people  better  is 
of  first  importance  in  leading  a  good  life,  then  read  True 
Story,  not  only  for  entertainment  but  for  the  truth  it 
tells  you  about  life. 


PUBLISHER 


68 


REPRINTED  FROM  THE  OCTOBER  ISSUE  OF  TRUE  STORY 


A  Full  Life 


I 

^K  (Continued  from  page  49) 

■  Regular  travelers  on  Sepulveda  are  now 
^^ed  to  seeing  Rosemary — a  remarkably 
pretty  girl  with  gray-green  eyes  fringed 
with  sooty  lashes,  brown  hair  dramatized 
by  premature  wings  of  white  at  each  tem- 
ple— talking  furiously  to  herself  as  she 
drives  along.  Stopping  at  signals,  she 
may  consult  a  manuscript,  experiment 
with  a  tone  or  gesture.  She  may  review 
her  timing,  or  question  a  stage  direction, 
or  caution  herself — aloud — to  pause  at 
such-and-such  a  point  for  a  laugh.  Then, 
to  the  license  plate  ahead,  she  says:  "Yes, 
but  suppose  the  laugh  doesn't  come?" 

Often,  a  fellow  motorist  reassures  her 
by  shouting  to  the  actress — so  busily  exer- 
cising her  art  on  the  way  home  to  her 
second  "professional  job"  as  wife  and 
mother — "Hi,  Rosemary!  Very  funny  show 
last  week.  Keep  belting  'em,  kid!" 

Rosemary  DeCamp  is  almost  never 
called  "Miss  DeCamp"  or  "Mrs.  Shidler." 
The  butcher,  baker,  electrician,  veterinar- 
ian, delivery  boy,  ice-cream  vendor,  forty 
or  fifty  neighborhood  children — and  all 
passing  highway  acquaintances — know  her 
approvingly  as   "Rosemary." 

Her  reaction  to  this  camaraderie? 
"Sometimes  I'm  startled,  but  I'm  always 
more  flattered  than  surprised!" 

Wholesale  adoption  of  Rosemary  by  the 
population  is  not  a  new  manifestation. 
Originally,  it  was  fostered  by  her  Nurse 
Judy  Price  characterization  on  the  Dr. 
Christian  radio  program.  It  was  advanced 
by  heartwarming  "best  friend"  roles  in 
such  films  as  "Cheers  for  Miss  Bishop," 
"Hold  Back  the  Dawn,"  "Blood  on  the 
Sun,"  "From  This  Day  Forward"  and  "By 
the  Light  of  the  Silvery  Moon."  Lately, 
die  has  been  repossessed  by  all  her  old- 
time  fans — and  claimed  by  a  multitude  of 
new  ones — because  of  her  outstanding  per- 
formance on  The  Bob  Cummings  Show. 

I^unny  as  that  show  is  (and  it  boasts 
a  masterly  script  by  writer-producer  Paul 
Henning),  it  can  never  come  up  to  actual 
life  in  the  DeCamp-Shidler  household. 
Rosemary  and  her  husband.  Judge  John 
Shidler,  live  in  a  hillside  house  on  a  wind- 
washed,  sun-dazzled  piedmont  about  thir- 
ty miles  from  the  nearest  movie  studio  or 
TV  station.  Set  on  a  curving  street  named 
Camino  de  las  Colinas  ("Highroad  of  the 
Mists"),  the  house  is  a  rambling,  two- 
story,  white  stucco  structure  with  wide, 
arched  windows  and  a  red  tile  roof.  It 
is  svirrounded  by  trees  half  a  century  old, 
by  copa  de  oro  vines  heavy  with  their 
great  golden  flowers,  by  bougainvillaea  in 
clarion  bloom,  and  by  resplendent  views  of 
the    timeless   Pacific. 

"Rambling"  is  not  precisely  the  correct 
term  for  the  house.  It  sits  still,  actually, 
but  it  vibrates  like  a  bass  drum  marching 
in  a  high  school  band.  In  this  case,  how- 
ever, the  band  is  inside  the  drum.  The  De- 
Camp-Shidler complement  of  children  is 
four— all  girls.  However,  to  the  best  of 
everyone's  knowledge,  there  has  never 
been  a  day  during  the  past  plenty  years 
when  a  mere  quartet  of  children  flowed  in 
f  babbling  stream  through  the  house.  Usu- 
■  ally,  the  number  would  be  twice  to  three 
times   the   "native"  population. 

The  Shidler  roll  call  reads:  Margaret, 
Martha,  Valerie,  and  Nita  Louise. 

Margaret  was  bom  November  21,  1942. 
She  is  a  willowy,  blue-eyed  girl,  fuU  of 
dreams  about  becoming  a  concert  pianist. 
Her  heroine  is  Myra  Hess,  and  one  of  the 
most  breathless  evenings  of  her  life  was 
that  spent  at  a  Hess  concert. 

Martha  was  bom  July  25,  1946.  ("There 
was  a  pause  in  the  roll  call  between  Mar- 
garet   and    Martha,"    Rosemary    explains, 


Whats  New  in 
Colgate  Dental  Cream 

that' MISSING- 
MISSING-MISSING 

in  every  other  leading 
toothpaste  ? 

MGARDOl-TbemapJd 

Againsf  Tooth  Decoy 
..  l^JttstOneBtushmgi 


GARDOL  Makes  This  Amazing  Difference! 


MINUTES  AFTER 

BRUSHING  WITH  ANY 

TOOTHPASTE 


^<mr 


DECAY-CAUSING 
BACTERIA  RETURN  TO 
ATTACK  YOUR  TEETH ! 


12  HOURS  AFTER 

ONE  COLGATE  BRUSHING 

GARDOL  IS 


STILL  FIGHTING 

THE  BACTERIA  THAT 

CAUSE  DECAY! 


\ 


No  other  leading  toothpaste  can  give  the 
12-hour  protection  against  tooth  decay  you 
get  with  Colgate  Dental  Cream  with  Gardol 


Any  toothpaste  can  destroy  decay-  and 
odor-causing  bacteria.  But  new  bacteria 
return  in  minutes,  to  form  the  acids  that 
cause  tooth  decay.  Colgate  Dental  Cream, 
unlike  any  other  leading  toothpaste,*  keeps 
on  fighting  decay  for  12  hours  or  more! 
So,  morning  brushings  with  Colgate 
Dental  Cream  help  protect  all  day ;  evening 


brushings  all  night.  Gardol  in  Colgate 
Dental  Cream  forms  an  invisible,  protec- 
tive shield  around  your  teeth  that  lasts  for 
12  hours  with  just  one  brushing.  Ask  your 
dentist  how  often  to  brush  your  teeth. 
Encourage  your  children  to  brush  after 
meals.  And  at  all  times,  get  Gardol  pro- 
tection in  Colgate  Dental  Cream! 


THE  TOP  THREE  eRANOS   AFTER  COLGATE'S- 


Cleans  Your  Breath  T  Guards  Ydur  Teeth 


69 


■H 


"because  John  was  away  at  war.")  Martha 
is  known  as  the  family  zoologist  and 
Sypsy,  one  activity  supplementing  the 
other.  "I  never  know  where  she  is,"  her 
mother  notes  equably.  "One  afternoon  I 
decided  that  I  had  wondered  once  too  often 
about  where  she  was  spending  so  much 
time,  and  set  out  to  look  for  her.  I  was 
told  that  she  had  been  working  on  some 
sort  of  cave,  an  activity  positively  forbid- 
den in  these  unstable  clay  hills.  I  located 
the  young  lady  almost  at  once — only  her 
feet  and  ankles  showing.  When  I  shouted 
at  her  to  crabwalk  out  of  there  with  speed, 
her  answer  came  back,  muffled  but  ecstatic: 
'I  have  found  five  baby  owls.'  Well,  I've 
always  wanted  a  white  owl  and  Martha 
knew  it,  so  all  scolding  was  forgotten  while 
she  and  I  drove  around  the  neighborhood 
finding  homes  for  the  abandoned  feathered 
babies  that  we  couldn't  keep." 

Martha  also  has  the  distinction  of  having 
captured,  without  gloves,  what  may  be  the 
only  three-cornered  lizard  in  the  California 
hills.  That's  right:  It  had  two  tails.  In  the 
old  days,  it  would  have  been  instantly 
christened  "P-38,"  but  the  "Davy  Croc- 
kett" set  has  never  heard  of  World  War 
II's  most  fascinating  outline  against  the 
skies. 

Martha's  butterfly  collection  was  the  joy 
of  her  heart  until  it  was  raided  by  a 
vandal,  a  tragedy  inadvertently  given 
worldwide  publicity.  What  the  news  dis- 
patch lacked  in  authenticity,  it  supplied  in 
sprightliness.  The  marauder  who  munched 
on  the  lepidoptera  was  Martha's  baby  sis- 
ter, Nita  Louise,  eighteen  months  old  at 
the  time  and  distinguished  by  an  odd 
appetite  and  no  qualms. 

Rosemary  happened  to  mention  the  do- 
mestic mishap  at  the  radio  station  and  the 
next  thing  she  knew,  the  story  had  been 
grabbed  gleefully  by  one  of  the  wire  serv- 
ices. A  single  discrepancy  was  included: 
The  owner  of  the  butterfly  collection  was 
stated  to  be  Judge  Shidler.  You  know  how 
those  things  are  handled — "Noted  jurist 
loses  priceless  collection  to  small  daugh- 
ter's palate." 

A  few  weeks  later  the  letters  began  to 
pour  in  from  Hong  Kong,  Patagonia,  Egypt, 
the  Pacific  Islands,  and  the  upper  Amazon. 
Along  with  .the  letters  of  condolence  came 
handsome  specimens  of  the  butterflies 
typical  of  the  writers'  geographic  area. 

Judge  Shidler,  tepid  toward  the  entire 
winged  world  up  to  that  point,  suddenly 
became  interested.  Thereafter,  in  his  rare 
spare  hours,  he  might  be  found  with  text, 
notebook,  and  magnifying  glass,  studying 
the  rainbow  array  of  fancy-flies — while 
making  sure  that  they  were  well  out  of 
tongue-reach  of  the  young  lady  with  the 
exotic  cravings. 

By  that  time,  Martha — whose  collection 
had  started  the  whole  thing — had  turned 
to  a  new  hobby:  Money.  She  is  now  known 
as  "Little  Dough  Eyes."  She  owns  a  cer- 
amic piggy  bank  roughly  the  size  of  a 
yearling  calf,  and  there  is  a  local  rumor 
that  before  long  she  won't  be  able  to  lift  it 
without  a  crane. 

Daughter  number  three  is  Valerie,  born 
December  14,  1947.  Perhaps  the  prettiest 
of  a  wonderfully  comely  group,  she  has  the 
ingratiating  habit  of  asking  visitors  for 
their  autographs.  She  has  spent  enough 
time  with  her  mother  on  shopping  tours  to 
have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  auto- 
graph-collecting is  something  every  alert 
child  does.  It  is  the  family  opinion  that  she 
currently  owns  the  finest  known  collection 
of  the  squiggles  of  ice-cream  vendors, 
garbage  collectors,  TV  repairmen,  grocers' 
T  delivery  boys,  and  casual  passersby. 
V  Being  fascinated  by  the  written  word, 
H  Valerie  is  also  inclined  to  communicate 
with  her  mother  by  note.  Several  times 
each  day,  Rosemary  is  in  receipt  of  some 
such  neatly  printed  request  as,  "May  I  go 


over  to  Susie's  house  answer  yes  or  no." 
Nita  Louise,  the  baby  whose  hobby  is 
eating  anything  that  doesn't  scream  first, 
was  born  March  21,  1952,  and  is  dubbed 
"Neats"  by  the  family.  "Neats"  is  an  exact 
accolade.  Temperamentally,  she  is  a  jun- 
ior-grade fashion  plate.  She  is  agog  over 
new  shoes,  ribbons  in  her  hair,  and  ruffled 
dresses  worn  over  five  petticoats,  and  she 
resists  with  considerable  force  the  morn- 
ing suggestion  that  she  get  into  her  zipper 
suit.  (Rosemary  dresses  the  girls  in  iden- 
tical styles,  varying  colors  to  suit  the  com- 
plexion of  each.  Mainly,  they  wear  quilted 
cotton  zipper  suits  for  leisure,  a  system 
which  has  saved  Rosemary  hours  of  shop- 
ping time  and  hours  of  junior  indecision 
over  what  to  wear.) 

The  father  of  this  agile  brood  is  a  tall, 
handsome,  dedicated  man  of  the  law  who 
met  Rosemary  when  she  was  a  student  at 
California's  renowned  Mills  College,  and  he 
himself  was  completing  his  law  course  at 
Stanford.  "When  I  met  him,"  Rosemary  re- 
calls, "I  knew  he  was  an  exceptionally 
dedicated  man,  but  it  didn't  dawn  on  me 
that  our  home  was  to  be  sort  of  a  recuper- 
ating station  for  various  kinds  of  fledglings 
with  broken  wings" — which  is  the  DeCamp 
way  of  saying  that  Judge  Shidler  regards 
the  providing  of  shelter  and  counsel  for 


R.  S.  V.  P. 

You're  invited  ...  to  one  of  the 
gayest  social  events  of  the  year, 
Charles  Baxter's  gala  dinner-dance 
at  the  Waldorf-Astoria  .  .  .  where 
top  stars  of  daytime  drama  prove 
they  shine  just  as  brightly  at  night! 
Your  favorite  players  from 

The  Guiding  Light 

* 

Love  of  Life 

• 

The  Secret  Storm 

* 

and  The  Brighter  Day 

will   be  there  ...  in   light-hearted, 
intimate  full-color  pictures  ...  be 
sure  to  see  them  all  in  the 
November  issue  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

on  sale  October  6 


the  worthy  unfortunate  as  one  of  the  re- 
sponsibilities of  his  job.  Sometimes,  the 
Shidler  guest  is  a  teenager  who  needs 
temporary  guidance;  sometimes,  it  is  a 
frightened  girl  in  her  twenties,  a  long 
way  from  home,  who  needs  assistance 
through  professional  training,  a  divorce  re- 
adjustment, or  pregnancy. 

Also  involved  in  good  works  of  various 
kinds — such  as  sewing  for  the  local  hos- 
pital and  aiding  at  bazaars — are  Rosemary's 
mother,  who  lives  near  by  and  drops  in 
regularly,  and  Judge  Shidler's  mother,  who 
is  also  a  frequent  joiner  of  the  clan. 

Now  that  you  have  met  the  central 
figures  in  a  cast  likely  to  shag  in  and  out 
of  this  drama,  it  is  only  fair  to  detail  for 
you  a  more  or  less  typical  day  in  the 
life  of  actress-householder  Rosemary  De- 
Camp  Shidler. 

This  particular  morning  got  under  way 
at  about  seventy  degrees,  bright  and  clear 


and  altogether  ideal  for  Rosemary  to  sort 
out,  for  prompt  completion,  one  or  two 
projects  from  among  the  several  hundred 
planned  in  her  dreams.  Because  the  din- 
ing-room wall  had  been  painted  a  dusty 
rose  recently,  she  decided  that  Project  One 
n}ight  consist  of  adding  vertical  serpen- 
tine silver  lines  on  the  window  waU  for  a 
contemporary  effect,  reminiscent  of  wave 
marks  upon  sand.  Also,  this  could  be  en- 
trusted to  a  corps  of  junior  workers  while 
Rosemary  assailed  Project  Two:  Building 
a  tile-topped  circular  seat  around  a  mag- 
nificent old  evergreen  growing  in  the  gar- 
den. 

In  the  dining  room,  Rosemary  assembled 
ladders,  stools,  brushes,  thinner,  aluminum 
paint,  and  a  zipper-uniformed  crew.  At 
her  own  site  of  endeavor,  she  collected 
trowels,  grout,  tile,  and  the  outline  of  a 
tentative  design. 

In  a  few  moments,  industry  was  ram- 
pant— a  fact  which  spread  through  the 
neighborhood  as  if  wafted  on  the  frag- 
rance of  popping  corn.  In  no  time,  each 
daughter  had  a  buddy  on  deck  and  eager 
to  help.  In  no  time  plus-one-hour,  each 
daughter  had  at  least  two  buddies.  In  no 
time  plus-two-hours,  sixteen  Brownies 
assembled  for  a  meeting  which  had  been 
overlooked  in  the  date  book. 

Rosemary  shunted  the  Brownies  to  the 
lower  patio,  where  they  prepared  to  haunt 
field  and  stream,  doing  whatever  Brownies 
do  do.  Meanwhile,  there  was  a  drive  on 
milk.  Cokes,  and  fruit  juice.  With  grout 
on  her  hands  and  mayhem  in  her  heart, 
the  tile-setter  was  called  upon  again  and 
again  to  mix  punch,  supply  additional 
sandwiches  because  someone  had  forgotten 
her  little  brown  bag  loaded  with  provi- 
sions, and  to  arbitrate  discussions  between 
Brownies  and  certain  anti-Brownie  guests. 

At  this  point,  the  telephone  rang  and 
the  welcome  voice  of  an  old  school  chum 
brought  word  that  the  chum  was  at  the 
airport  and  had  been  notified  of  a  two- 
hour  minimum  delay  in  airline  connec- 
tions. She  and  her  husband  wondered  if  it 
would  be  convenient.  ...  Of  course,  of 
course.  Just  tell  the  cabby  to  take  101.  .  .  . 

No  time  now  to  get  that  new  permanent; 
no  time  to  buy  that  airy  new  frock;  no 
time  to  do  anything  except  whip  up  iced 
coffee  and  one  of  those  spontaneous- 
combustion  desserts. 

The  guests  arrived,  greetings  were  ex- 
changed, and  the  upper  patio  was  pre- 
empted for  the  adults — at  least,  that  was 
Rosemary's  edict  to  her  small  fry  and  their 
battalion.  Conversation  proved  to  be  easy, 
familiar,  and  altogether  delightful.  Actress, 
tile-setter,  decorating  foreman,  and  mother 
relaxed  simultaneously  into  one  woman's 
uncomplicated  enjoyment  of  her  guests. 

Promptly,  a  joyous  scream  from  the 
lower  patio  was  followed  by  a  mass  attack 
upon  the  adult  meeting  and  the  leader's 
announcement.  "I've  just  found  one  of  our 
lizards,  the  one  with  fingernail  polish  on 
its  nose.  Where  shall  I  hide  it  so  the  cats 
can't  get  it?"  And  she  held  up  a  wriggling 
organism  in  triumph. 

Rosemary  said,  "Excuse  me  a  second," 
and  gave  her  daughter  both  advice  and  ad- 
monition. "And  now,  where  were  we.  .  .  ." 

Mrs.  Shidler,  the  judge's  mother,  ar- 
rived for  a  brief  call,  was  introduced,  and 
a  second  later  was  spied  by  her  grand- 
children. "Mah  Jongg,"  they  yelled,  aval-  j 
anching  upon  her.  "Come  down  to  our 
patio  and  play  Mah  Jongg." 

She  said  she  had  to  make  a  telephone 
call  first.  She  had  been  trying  to  make  con- 
tact with  a  friend  all  day  without  success. 
She  returned  shortly  to  say  that  there  was 
no  response — perhaps  all  the  telephones 
were  out  of  order.  (The  airline  had  agreed 
to  call  Rosemary's  guests  when  their  plane 
was  thirty  minutes  away  from  take-off.) 

Mrs.    Shidler    was    drawn    Mah   Jongg- 


ward  when  a  new  chorus  of  screams  arose 
from  the  lunch  area.  Some  villain  had 
"filled"  the  Brownie  sandwich  bags  with 
bees.  The  adults  went  to  the  rescue,  found 
a  total  of  two  bees.  No  trial  was  held,  but 
it  was  apparent  that  some  zoological  type 
had,  at  considerable  effort  and  peril, 
trapped  a  bee  in  each  of  two  luncheon 
sacks  simply  to  keep  the  day  from  be- 
coming a  bore. 

Rosemary  led  the  trek  back  to  the 
breeze-fiUed  patio,  cool  and  peaceful  to 
the  eye,  and  was  presented  with  a  letter. 
"May  I  have  an  ice-cream  bar?  Answer 
yes  or  no,"  it  read.  Rosemary  wrote,  "No. 
Mrs.  John  Shidler,"  and  returned  it  to  her 
three-year-old,  serving  as  messenger  for 
both  parties  to  the  communique.  A  mo- 
ment later,  an  upstairs  window  opened 
wide  and  a  flurry  of  paper  torn  to  con- 
fetti bits  came  floating  down  in  eloquent 
comment. 

From  the  lower  garden  arose  a  jumble 
of  murmurous  delight  as  a  new  delegation, 
headed  by  an  ecstatic  Shidler  lass,  broke 
through  the  gate,  announcing:  "Merry 
Christmas  (the  dog)  is  having  her  puppies. 
First,  she  had  one,  and  just  now  she 
coughed  up  another  one." 

1  his  announcement  was  still  trembling 
in  the  air  when  a  magazine  writer  and 
photographer  (due  a  day  later,  according 
to  Rosemary's  calendar)  arrived  to  do  a 
home  sitting. 

Said  the  traveling  guests,  "It's  been 
wonderful,  but  I  think  we  should  be  get- 
ting back  to  the  airport  since  we  seem  to 
be  out  of  communication.  .  .  ." 

The  air  was  split  by  a  shrill  wail. 

Until  that  moment,  throughout  the  not 
uneventful  afternoon,  Rosemary  had  re- 
mained imperturbable,  accepting  each  new 
development  with  bland  philosophy  and 
a  shrug  highly  flavored  with  "C'est  la  vie." 

Now,  abruptly,  she  sprang  into  action, 
her  eyes  wide,  her  movements  quick  and 
correlated.  The  amused  spectator  had 
been  translated  instantly  into  the  mother 
whose  ear  knows  every  note  and  modula- 
tion of  a  child's  cry.  The  wail,  rising  near 
and  nearer,  was  not  that  of  outraged  pride 
or  angry  frustration.  There  was  fright  in 
it,  and  need. 

It  was  Valerie  who  rushed  into  her 
mother's  arms,  blurting  something  about 
a  fall  from  the  swing.  Expertly,  Rosemary 
looked  her  over,  deciding  that  the  small 
nose  was  not  broken,  only  skinned,  and 
that  the  forehead  was  only  scraped,  not 
badly  bruised.  Rocking  back  and  forth  as 
she  crouched  with  the  seven-year-old  in 
her  lap,  Rosemary  kissed  the  tears  away, 
murmuring  the  comfort  and  reassurance 
that  are  powerful  cures  for  small  damage. 
Finally,  she  set  the  child  back  on  her  feet 
and  headed  her  toward  further  play. 

The  guests,  somewhat  shaken,  moved 
toward  their  taxi,  uttering  the  niceties — 
lovely  home,  delightful  visit,  it  must  never 
again  be  so  long  between  meetings.  Then 
Rosemary's  chirm  said  frankly,  "I  don't 
see  how  you  manage,  yet  you  certainly  do 
— beautifully.  You're  everything:  Wife  and 
social  worker,  homemaker  and  mother, 
career  woman  and  handyman.  I  should 
think  you  would  have  had  a  nervous 
breakdown  before  this." 

Rosemary  laughed  from  the  depths  of 
her  heart.  "Me — nervous?  I  don't  have 
time  for  that  sort  of  thing."  And,  as  she 
waved  her  guests  on  their  way  she  added, 
"Hurry  back,  and  when  you  think  of  me, 
just  remember — it's  a  full  life." 

Martha  joined  her  mother.  "Look — a 
three-cornered  lizard.  It  has  two  tails," 
she  particularized. 

Rosemary  studied  it.  "Only  on  these 
premises  could  it  happen,"  she  muttered. 
"But,  as  I  said,  it's  a  full  life." 


How  to  cope  with  a  wolfish  stranger? 

□  fConfe  Win  □  OufwH  him  □  Get  off  fhe  train 


You're  the  perfect  lady  you  were  brought  up 
to  be  — but  to  Fang  Boy  you're  just  another 
morsel  of  smooch-bait.  How  to  escape  his 
clutches?  (Got  a  bumbershoot  handy?) 
There's  a  simpler  way  than  denting  his 
so-called  brain.  Outwit  him  — by  asking 


another  male  passenger  to  exchange  seats 
with  you.  It's  a  perfect  squelch.  Fail-proof! 
Ever  try  to  outwit  calendar  problems,  too? 
You  can,  by  choosing  Kotex*,  and  getting 
the  safety  —  the  non-fail  absorbency  you  need 
for  perfect  confidence. 


To  snare  a  Man  of  Letters, 
should  you  speak — 

r~l  First       n  His  language       Q  With  an  accent 

So  you  don't  know  a  dribble  from  a  drop 
kick,  hey?  Better  start  discovering  the 
sports  page,  if  you  want  the  letter-sweater 
lad  to  get  your  message.  Learn  to  talk  boy 
language  — about  football,  basketball,  track. 
See  what  an  ice  breaker  it  can  be.  And  don't 
be  a  date  breaker,  at  "that"  time!  Go  to  the 
games  in  comfort  — with  Kotex  and  the 
chafe-free  softness  that  holds  its  shape! 


Which  does  most  for  your 
social  rating? 

r~l  Your  gloves        Q  High  heels        []  Your  hat 

You'd  prove  you're  part  of  the  "grown  up" 
world?  Wearing  a  chapeau  adds  to  a  gal's 
social  stature.  Forsake  the  bareheaded  or 
peasant  (babushka)  look.  A  hat's  vital  to 
your  outfit— for  church,  club  or  school 
ceremonies;  job  hunting,  travel.  To  add 
poise  on  certain  days,  let  Kotex  and  those 
fiat  pressed  ends  prevent  revealing  outlines. 
Try  all  3  sizes:  Regular,  Junior,  Super. 


More  women,  choose  KOTEX  than  all  other  sanitary  napldns 


Free  booklet !  Want  hints  on  dating,  etiquette,  groom- 
ing, fashions?  Send  for  fascinating  free  booklet  "Are 
You  In  The  Know?"  Gives  poise-pointers  selected 
from  "Are  You  In  The  Know?"  advertisements. 
Write  P.  0.  Box  3434,  Dept.  12105,  Chicago  54,  III. 

*T.  H.  RES.  U.  S.  PAT.  OFF. 


71 


V 
R 

72 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Daylight  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 
Mornin;;  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Local  Program 

John  MacVane 

9:00 
9:t5 
d:30 
9:45 

Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 
News,  Cecil  Brown 
9:35  Easy  Does  It 
(con.) 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 

10:45 

Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peale 
One  Man's  Family 
Second  Chance 

10:55  News 

Cecil  Brown 

Guest  Time* 
News 

10:35  Johnny 
Olsen  Show 

My  True  Story 

10:25  Whispering 
Streets 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

11:00 

11:15 

11:30 
11:45 

Strike  It  Rich 

Phrase  That  Pays 
Fibber  McGee  & 
Molly 

11:25  Holland  Engle 

Oueen  For  A  Day 

*Wed.,   Faith    In 
Our  Time 

Companion— 
Dr.  Mace 
Paging  The  New 

Albert  Warner,  News 
Your  Neighbor's 
Voice 

Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 
Howard  Miller  Show 

Afternoon    Proj^ram.^ 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 


1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 


2:00 
2:15 


2:30 
2.45 


3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 


Pauline  Frederick 


News 

3:05  Wonderful  City 
Spotlight  Story 
Just  Plain  Bill 


4:00  Right  To  Happiness 
4:15  Stella  Dallas 


4:30 
4:45 


5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:4S 


Young  Widder  Brown 
Pepper  Young's 
Family 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Woman  In  My  House 
Lorenzo  Jones 
Lone  Ranger 
5:55  Dan'l  Boone 


Monday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Noon  Nsws 
12:05    Here's 
Hollywood 


News,  Cedric  Foster 

Luncheon  At  Sardi's 

Letter  To  Lee 

Graham 


Luncheon  With  Lopez 
2:25  News.  Sam 

Hayes 
America's  Front 

Door 


Ruby  Mercer  Show 


Bruce  &  Dan 

Tex  Fletcher's 
Wagon  Show 


Sgt.  Preston 

Bobby  Benson 
America's  Business 
5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 


Valentino 
Frank  Farrell 


I  Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Backstage  Wife 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 


Paul  Harvey,  News 
Ted  Malone 


Martin  Block 


Martin   Block   (con.) 


Broadway   Matinee 

Treasury  Band- 
stand 


Musical  Express 
Bobby  Hammack 
Gloria  Parker 
Vincent  Lopez 


Road  Of  Life 
Ma  Perkins 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 


Second  Mrs.  Burton 
Perry  Mason 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 
The  Brighter  Day 


Linkletter's  House 

Party 
Fred  Bobbins  Show 


Evening  ProfjrauiH 


Alex  Dreier,  Man 

On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One   Man's   Family 


Your  Land  And  Mine 


Telephone  Hour 


Band  Of  America 


Fibber  McGee  ft 
Molly 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Top  Secret  Files 
Broadway  Cop 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Reporters'  Roundup 


Virgil   Pinkley 

Orchestra 
Distinguished  Artists 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,    News 

Quincy  Howe 

Strange 

Saga 

7:55  News 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Voice  Of  Firestone 


Music  Tent 


9:25  News 
Freedom  Sings 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Martha  Lou  Harp 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer 
Of  Lost  Persons 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 

Rosemary  Clooney 


Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Tuesday 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
?i45 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


NBC 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Biographies   In 
Sound 


9:55  News 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Heart  Of  The  News 
New  England  Survey 


Evening   Programs 

MBS  ABC 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Jr. 


Fulton  Lewis 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 


John  Steele, 
Adventurer 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05   Footnotes  To 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Army  Hour 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Men's  Corner 
Dance  Music 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye  Show 
9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 
News 

Platterbrains 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Take  Thirty 


CBS 

Jackson  &  The  New^ 

Lowell  Thomas 


Suspense 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 


Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


Scoreboard 
t0:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Wednesday 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Conversation 


News 

8:35  College  Quiz 
Bowl 


Best  Of  Groucho 

Truth  Or 
Consequences 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 


8:15 
8:30 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

10:00 

10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Heart  Of  The  News 
Keys  To  The  Capital 


Thursday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


True  Detective 
Sentenced 


News,  LyIe  Van 
Spotlight  Story 
Family  Theater 


Virgil   Pinkley 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye  Show 
9:25  News 
President's  News 
Conference 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
Behind  Iron  Curtain 
Relaxin'  Time 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Roy  Rogers 
Dr.  Six  Gun 


News 

9:05  X  Minus  One 


The  Loser 

9:55   News 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Joseph  C.  Harsch 
Jane  Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Sounding  Board 

Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


FBI  In  Peace  And 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 

Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Behind  The  Iron 

Curtain 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official  Detective 
I  Am  Brady  Kaye 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Virgil   Pinkley 

Book  Hunter 
Henry  Jerome  Orch. 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Strange 
Saga 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye  Show 


9:25  News 
Rhythm  On  Parade 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Front  &  Center 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Newsmakers 
Presidential  Report 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 
Ernie 

Edward  R.  Murrow 


The  Whistler 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 


Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


National   Radio 
Fan  Club 


Radio  Fan  Club 
(con.) 


9:55  News 


Ted  Heath  Orch. 
Stars  In  Action 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Counter-Spy 
City  Editor 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05    Footnotes   To 

History 
Football  from 

Orange  Bowl* 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Forbes   Report 
London  Studios 

Melodies 
*Begins  Sept.  30 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hid-iaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye  Show 
A  Treasury  Of  Music 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Indoors  Unlimited 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell   Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Godfrey  Digest 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 

Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


MBS 


Morning  Programs 

Local  Program 


•:30 
8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 

10:15 
10:30 
10:45 


11:00 

1:15 
1:30 
11:45 


World   News 
Roundup 


Farming  Business 
Monitor 


Monitor 


Monitor 


American  Travel 
Guide 


UC 


Doug  Brownine 
Show 


GB5 


News 


No  School 
Today 


No  School 
Today  (con.) 

Breakfast  Club 

Review 
10:55  News 


Lucky  Pierre 


Johnny  Desmond 

Show 
11:55  Young  Living 


News 

{11:05  Half-Pint 
Panel 

{All  League  Club- 
house 


News  Of  America 
Farm  News 

Garden  Gate 


News 

10:05  Galen  Drake 
Show 

10:55  News 
LeSueur 


Robert  a.  Lewis 
Show 


.%fternoon  Programs 


7:00 

12:15 
!2:30 
.12:45 

National   Farm   i. 
Home  Hour 

Monitor 

1  Asked  You 

Tex  Fletcher 
Wagon  Show 

News 

12:05  How  To  Fix  It 
101    Ranch  Boys 
American  Farmer 

Noon  News 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

1:00 

.1:15 

1:30 

1:45 

Monitor 

Football— Game  of 
the  Week 

Football 

Football  Roundup 

2:00 
,2:15 
'2:30 

2:45 

Monitor 

Football  (con.) 

Football  (con.) 

Football  (con.) 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Monitor 

Football  (con.) 

Football  (con.) 

Football  (con.) 

4:00 

4:15 

4:30 
4:45 

Monitor 

Football  (con.) 

Football  (con.) 

Football   (con.) 

5:00 

5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

Monitor 

Teenagers,   U.S.A. 
5:55  News 

News 

5:05  Dinner  At  The 
Green  Room 

Adventures  In 

Science 
Richard  Hayes 
News,  Jackson 
5:35  Saturday  At 

The  Chase 

Eve 

6:00 

6:15 
'6:30 

6:45 

ning  Progran 

Monitor 

US 

John  T.  Flynn 

World  Traveler 
Report  From 

Washington 
Basil  Heatter 

News 

6:05  Pan-American 
Union 

Sports  Kaleidoscope 

Bob  Edge,  Sports 
Afield 

News 

Sports  Review 
Capitol  Cloakroom 

6:55  Joe  Foss,  Sports 

7:00 
^7:15 

7:30 

7:45 

Monitor 

Pop  The  auestion 
Magic  Of  Music 

News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Labor-Management 
Series 

News,  Jackson 
Gangbusters 

8:00 
8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

Monitor 

Wheel  Of  Fortune 
Quaker  City  Capers 

News 

8:05  Dance  Party 

21st  Precinct 

Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 

9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 

Monitor 

Hawaii  Calls 
Lombardo  Land 

News 

9:05  Dance  Party 
(con.) 

Two  For  The  Money 

Country  Style 
9:55  News,  Jackson 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 

Monitor 

Grand  Die  Opry 

News 

10:05  Hotel  Edison 

Lawrence  Welk 

Country  Style  (con.) 
Your  Hit  Parade 

Sunday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning  Programs 


8:30 

Monitor 

Light  And  Life  Hour 

Renfro  Valley 

8:45 

8:55  Galen  Drake 

9:00 

World  News 

Wings  Of  Healing 

News 

World  News  Roundup 

9:15 

Roundup 

9:05  Great  Moments 
Of  Great  Composers 

Sidney  Walton  Show 

9:30 

Back  To  God 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 

Organ  Music, 

9:45 

Art  Of  Living 

E.  Power  Biggs 
9:55  News,  Trout 

10:00 

National  Radio 

Radio  Bible  Class 

News 

Church  Of  The  Air 

10:15 

Pulpit 

10:05  Message  Of 
Israel 

10:30 

Monitor 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 

News 

Church  Of  The  Air 

10:45 

10:35  College  Choir 

(con.) 

11:00 

Monitor 

Frank  And  Ernest 

Sunday  Melodies 
11:05  Marines  On 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 

11:15 

Christian  Science 
Monitor 

Review 

11:30 

11:35  New  World 

Northwestern 

News 

Invitation  To 

Reviewing  Stand 

11:35  Christian  la 

learning— "The 

11:45 

Action 

Out-Of-Doors" 

Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 

12:15 
12:30 

12:45 

Monitor 

The  Eternal  Light 

Marine  Band 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 
Merry  Mailman 

The  World  Tomorrow 

News,  LeSueur 
12:05  The  Leading 

Question 
World  Affairs 

Washington  Week 

1:00 

1:15 
1:30 

1:45 

Monitor 

Basil  Heatter, 

News 
Christian  Science 
Lutheran  Hour 

Herald  Of  Truth 

News 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

Woolworth  Hour- 
Percy   Faith, 
Donald   Woods 

2:00 
2:15 
2:30 
2:45 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Professional  Football 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 
Wings  Of  Healing 

News 

2:05  Kathy  Godfrey 
World  Music 
Festival 

3:00 

3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

Monitor 

Professional  Football 
(con.) 

News 

3:05  Pan  American 

Union 
Billy  Graham 

World  Music 
Festival  (con.) 

3:55  News 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Monitor 

Salute  To  The  Nation 

Nick  Carter 

4:55  Lome  Greene 

Old-Fashioned 
Revival  Hour 

Rhythm  On  The 
Road 

5:00 
5:15 

5:30 
5:45 

Monitor 

Adventures  Of  Rin 
Tin  Tin 

Wild  Bill  Hickok 
5:55  News 

News 

5:05  Church  In  The 

Home 
Greatest  Story  Ever 

Told 

News 

5:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 

5:55  News 

Evening  Programs 


6:00 

Meet  The  Press 

Public  Prosecutor- 
Jay  Jostyn 

Monday  Morning 
Headlines 

Gene  Autry 

6:15 

On  The  Line,  Bob 

Paul  Harvey,  News 

6:30 

Monitor 

Considine 

Evening  Comes 

6:45 

All  Star  Sport  Time 

7:00 

Monitor 

Richard  Hayes  Show 

News 

7:05  Showtime 
Revue 

Jack  Benny 

7:15 

George  Sokolsky 

7:30 

Studio  Concert 

Valentino 

Amos  'n'  Andy 

7:45 

Travel  Talk 

8:00 

Monitor 

west  Point  Band 

American  Town 

Our  Miss  Brooks 

8:15 

Meeting 

8:30 

Enchanted  Hour 

Gary  Crosby 

8:45 

9:00 

Monitor 

Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 

News,  Paul  Harvey 

Music   Hall, 

9:15 

Success  Story 

News,  Quincy  Howe 

Mitch  Miller 

9:30 

Manion  Forum 

Sammy  Kaye 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 

9:55  News 

10:00 

Fibber  McGee   & 

Billy  Graham 

Overseas 

News,  Schorr 

Molly 

Assignment 

10:05  Face  The  Na- 

10:15 

Joseph  C.  Harsch 

Seven  Deadly  Sins 

tion 

10:30 

American  Forum 

Global  Frontiers 

Revival  Time 

John  Derr,  Sports 

See  Next  Page- 


TV  program  highlights 


NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  SEPTEMBER  8— OCTOBER  9 


Baseball  on  TV 

DATE        TIME    CH.        GAME 


D — Doubleheader         R — Road  game 

DATE       TIME    CH.        GAME 


SEPT. 

8,  Th. 

2:00 

11 

9,  F. 

2:00 

11 

10,  Sat. 

2:00 

8,  11 

2:. 55 

2 

11,  Sun. 

2:00 

8,  11 

5:00 

9 

13,  To. 

2:00 

11 

9:00 

9 

14,  W. 

2:00 

11 

9:00 

9 

15,  Th. 

2:30 

9 

Kan.  C.  v».  Yankees 
Chi.  vs.  Yankees 
Chi.   vs.  Yankees 
Dodgers   vs.   Cinc.-R 
Clev.  vs.  Yankees-D 
Dodgers   vs.    Cinc.-R 
Det.    vs.    Yankees 
Dodgers  vs.  St.  I..-R 
Det.  vs.  Yankees 
Dodgers  vs.  St.  Ii.-R 
Dodgers  vs.  St.  Ij.-R 


16, 

F. 

8:00 

9 

Giants   vs.   Dodgers 

8:30 

11 

Bos.  vs.  Yankees 

17, 

Sat. 

2:00 

2,  8, 

9  Giants   vs.   Dodgers 

2:00 

11 

Bos.  vs.  Yankees 

18, 

Sun. 

2:00 

8,  9 

Giants   vs.   Dodgers 

2:00 

11 

Bos.  vs.  Yankees 

20, 

Tu. 

1:30 

11 

Pgh.   vs.   Giants 

8:00 

9 

Phila.  vs.  Dodgers 

23, 

F. 

1:30 

11 

Phila.  vs.   Giants 

24, 

Sat. 

2:00 

2,  11 

Phila.  vs.  Giants 

74 


Monday  through  Friday 


7:00  O  &  [U  Today— Awake    with    Garroway 
8:55  O  Herb  Sheldon  And  Jo  McCarthy 
9:00  Q  Skinner  Show— 2nd  cuppa  coffee 
O  Russell's  Corner— Big,  warm  Todd 
9:30  O  Morning   Matinee— Feaure  films 
10:00  Q  Garry  Moore  Show— Moore  fun 

O  &  [¥{  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nurserv 
10:30  0  Godfrey  Time— Arthur  is  back 
10:45  O  People  At  Home— Interviews 
11:00  Q  Home— Arlene  Francis,  femcee 

O  Romper  Room— TV  kindergarten 
11:30  O  &II]  Strike  It  Rich-Warren  Hull 

0  Wendy  Barrie— Unpredictable  &  fun 
12:00  0  Valiant   Lady— Daytime  serial 

O  &  [s]  Tennessee    Ernie— Pea-picking 
0  Time  For  Fun — More  distraction  for  jr. 
12:15  0  &  [8]  Love   Of   Life-Serial   story 
12:30  0  &  [s]  Search   For  Tomorrow— Serial 
O  Feather  Your  Nest— Serial 
O  Entertainment— Variety,   Tom    Posten 
12:45  0  (&  [U  at  2:30)  The  Guiding  Light 
0  Dr.    Norman   Vincent   Peale 
1:00  0  Jack   Poor  Show— Rollicking 
1:30  0  &  [s]  Welcome  Travelers-From  NY 

O  First-Run   Features 
2:00  0  &  [U  Robert  Q.Lewis  Show— Tres  gai 

0  Maggi   McNellis— Engrossing   patter 
2:30  0  Linkletter's   House   Party— Artful 
O  Jinx    Falkenburg— Interviews 
©  Ern  Westmore— Female   renovating 
3:00  0  &  [U  Big  Pay-off— Quiz  for  madam 
O  Ted   Mack   Matinee— Variety 
O  Ted  Steele  Show— Rhythm  &  relaxin' 
3:30  0  Bob  Crosby— Melodic  variety 

O  It  Pays  To  Be  Married— Bill  Goodwin 
0  Joe  Franklin's  Memory  Lane 
4:00  0  The  Brighter  Day— Daytime  drama 

O  &  0  Way  Of  The  World-Story 
4:15  0  &  [F{  Secret  Storm— Serial 

O  First  Love— Early  wedded  years 
4:30  0  &  [8]  On  Your  Account— $$$  Quiz 
Q  Mr.  Sweeney— Chuckles  with  Ruggles 

EARLY   EVENING 

6:30  O  Sky's  The  Limit-Quiz,  M,  W,  F; 

Patti   Page— Songs,  T,  Th. 

(D  Liberace— Keyboard   virtuoso 
7:00  0  KukIa,  Fran  &  OIlie— Delightful 
7:15  O  John  Daly,  News 
7:30  O  Eddie    Fisher— M,    W,    F;    Dinah 

Shore-T,  Th. 

O  Million  Dollar  Movies 
7:45  0  Julius  La  Rosa-M,  W,  F;  Upbeat- 

T,  Th,   singing   stars.    (Series   ends   Sept.    19) 

LATE   NIGHT 

10:00  O  Million    Dollar   Movies 

10:45  (D  News   &   Weather 

11:00  O  O    O  News  &  Weather 

(D  Liberace- Candlelight  concert 

11:10  0  Featuroma- Short   features 

11:15   0  Late  Show— Feature  films 

O  Steve  Allen  Show— Socko 


Monday  P.M. 


7:30  0  Robin  Hood— Premieres  Sept.  26 

0  Life  With  Elizabeth— Hilarious 
8:00  0  Burns   &  Allen— Coupled   comedy 
O  &  [U  Caesar   Presents;    Sept.    19, 
8-9:30,   "Our    Town,"    musical    version,   with 
Frank  Sinatra,  on  Producer's  Showcase 
0  Digest  Drama— True  stories 
8:30  0  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts— Variety 

0  Voice  Of  Firestone— Long  hair  recital 
9:00  0  &  [U  Those  Whiting  Girls— Comedy 

O  The   Medic— Penetrating   dramas 
9:30  0  December  Bride— But  April  bright 
O  Robert  Montgomery  Presents 
0  For  Doctors  Only— Live  from  hospitals 
10:00  0  &  [s]  Studio   One— Hour   dramas 

0  Eddie  Cantor— Pop-eyed  laffs 
10:30  Q  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens'  adventures 


Tuesday 


7:30  0  Name  That  Tune— $$  Quiz 
0  Waterfront — Tugboat  dramas 
0  Warner   Brothers  Presents— New, 
full-hour  films.   Premieres   Sept.    13 
8:00  0  Navy  Log— Drama— Premiere  Sept.  20 
O  Place    The    Face— Returning    9/27, 
Milton  Berle  Show;   10/4  Martha  Raye 
0  Star    Playhouse— Hollywood    films 
8:30  0  You'll  Never  Get  Rich— Phil  Silvers 
O  Arthur  Murray  Party— Till  9/20 
0  Wyatt    Earp— Terrific    adult    westerns 
9:00  O  Fireside  Theater— Jane  Wyman 

0  Make  Room  For  Daddy— A  bedlam 
9:30  0  &  m  Joe  &  Mabel— New  comedy 

Q  Pontiac    &    Circle    Theaters— Hour 
dramas  produced  by  Fred  Coe 

0  Du  Pont  Cavalcade  Theater— Stories 

10:00  0  $64,000  Question— So  much  money! 

0  Name's  The  Same— Fadimah's  panel 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  Disneyland— Repeat  films  till   Oct. 
8:00  0  Godfrey  &  Friends— Returns  Sept.  14 
8:30  O  &  Ul  Father  Knows  Best— Comedy 

0  M-G-M   Parade-Half-hour  films 
9:00  0  &  [H  The  Millionaire— Stories 

O  Kraft  Theater— Superb  hour  plays 
0  Masquerade    Party— Costume   quiz 
9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret— Moore's  mum 
0  Penny  To  A  Million— $$$  Quiz 
10:00  0&  m  U.S.  Steel  Theater— Front  Row 
Center— Alternating   fine   hour   dramas 
O  This  Is  Your  Life— Live  as  of  Sept.  21 
10:30  O  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 


Thursday 


8:00  0  Bob  Cummings  Show— Farce 

O  &  U]  Best    Of    Groucho— New    show 
as  of  Sept.  22 

O  Soldier   Parade— Hour   of   Gl    talent 

8:30  0  Climax— Mystery  &  suspense  yarns 
O  Make  The  Connection— Quiz 
0  Stop  The  Music— Beginning  Sept.  22 


9:00  O  &  [U  Dragnet— Sgt.  Friday  at  work 
©  Wrestling— Two   hours;   live  from 
V^ABD's  studios 

0  Star  Tonight— Filmed  teleplays 
9:30  0  Four  Star  Playhouse— Absorbing 

O  &  [U  Ford  Theater— Top-rated  dramas 
10:00  O  &  [U  Video  Theater-Back  Sept.  22 
10:30  0  Halls  Of  Ivy— The  Ronald  Colmans 


Friday 


7:30  0  My  Friend  Flicka— About  a  horse 
©  Life  With  Elizabeth— About  a  gal 
O  Rin  Tin  Tin— About  a  dog 
8:00  0  &  [1]  Mama— Peggy  Wood  stars 

O  Truth  Or  Consequences— Never  dull 
O  Ozzie  &  Harriet— Returns  Sept.  23 
8:30  0  Topper— Last  of  the  series 

O  &  [U  Life  Of  Riley— Turbulent  Bill 
9:00  0  Playhouse  Of  Stars— Filmed  dramas 
O  &  S  Big   Story— Hard    hitting   stories 
O  Dollar  A  Second— $$$  Quiz 
9:30  0  Ray  Milland  Show— After  Sept.  30, 
Our  Miss  Brooks 

O  &  H]  Dear    Phoebe— Funny    stuff 
0  The   Vise — Spine-chillers   from    Britain 
10:00  0  Undercurrent— Mystery;    The    Line- 
Up  returns  Sept.  30  with   police  stories 
©  Alec  Templeton— Piano  patter 
10:30  0  Person  To  Person— Murrow's  visits 


Saturday 


7:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Stunts  for  prizes 

O  Show  Wagon— Heidt's  talent  salute 
8:00  0  America's  Greatest  Bands— Fine 
O  Perry  Como   Show— Hour  variety 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— Shriner's  back 
O  &  lj]  People    Are    Funny— Art    Link- 
letter;  Oct.  1,  9-10:30,  Liebman  Presents, 
"Heidi,"   Ezio   Pinza,  Dennis  Day,  Pinky  Lee 
0  Lawrence  Welk  Sho^— Champagne 
music 
9:30  0  It's  Always  Jan— Comedy  stars  Janis 
Paige;  Sept.  24,  9:30-11— Ford  Star  Jubi- 
lee, with  Mary  Martin,   Noel   Coward 
O  Durante-O'Connor  Shows— Comedy 
10:00  0  Julius  La  Rosa— Last  weeks  for  Julie 
O  &  [U  Here's    The    Show— Gobel 
returns  Sept.  24 
10:30  0  Damon  Runyon  Theater— Stories 
O  [s]  Your  Hit  Parade— Jaunty  music 


Sunday 


25 
'Skin 


6:00  0  I  Love  Lucy— Repeat  of  early  shows 

6:30  0  You  Are  There— Expert  documentary 

7:00  0  Lassie— Returns  Sept.   1 1 

O  &  [§]  It's  A  Great  Life— Hearty 
0  You  Asked   For  It— Art  Baker 

7:30  0  Jack    Benny— Alternates    with 
Private  Secretary.  Jack's  first.  Sept 
O  Spectacular— Sept.   11,  7:30-9, 
of   Our   Teeth,"    Helen    Hayes,   Mary   Martin 

8:00  0  &  [D  Toast  Of  The  Town— Variety 
Q  Sunday   Hour— Comedy  &  variety 

8:30  (D  Dangerous    Encounter— Adventures 

9:00  0  G-E  Theater— Ronald   Reagan,  host 
O  &  [U  TV    Playhouse— Hour    teleplays 
0  Chance  Of  A   Lifetime— Variety 

9:30  0  Appointment    With    Adventure 
©  Life   Begins  At  Eighty— Sprightly 
10:00  0  Stage  7— New  teleplays 

O  &  [i]  Loretta    Young    Show— Stories 
©  Mr.  &  Mrs.  North— V^hodunits 
0  Break  The  Bank— Bert  Parks,  quiz 
10:30  0  What's  My  Line?— Job  game 

O  Bob  Cummings  Show— Comedy 
©  China  Smith— Dan  Duryea  stars 


Dream  Town 

(Continued  from  page  35) 
appointment  to  spend  an  afternoon  talk- 
ing with  her  not  long  ago.  I  hadn't  any 
idea  what  to  expect.  After  all,  Marion 
(Sue)  Randall  is  cast  as  the  "star-crossed" 
daughter  of  Helen  Emerson  in  Valiant 
Lady — a  girl  named  Diane,  who  has  been 
married  briefly,  and  who  has  come  to  New 
York  to  satisfj-  her  restless  ambition. 

Diane  is  working  for  a  suave  character 
named  Whitlow  Preston,  and  a  nice  guy 
named  Joey  Gordon  is  trying  to  beat  his 
time  with  her.  And  Diane — away  from 
the  restraining  influence  of  her  mother — 
is  having  a  bit  of  a  ball,  playing-off  one 
man  against  the  other.  Under  such  cir- 
cumstances, one  might  well  expect  "Diane" 
to  be  one  of  those  glittering  girls  you 
see  strolling  along  Madison  and  Park  Ave- 
nues, with  hair  like  chrysanthemums  and 
make-up  a  la  Audrey  Hepburn,  perhaps — 
since  Sue  Randall  herself  had  been  a 
model  for  a  while — even  carrying  the  in- 
evitable hatbox. 

The  girl  waiting  at  the  table  in  Louis 
and  Armand's  restaurant  wasn't  like  that 
at  all.  Her  dark  brown  hair,  which  ob- 
viously had  never  been  touched  by  a 
drop  of  artificial  rinse,  was  parted  in  the 
middle  and  brushed  back  in  the  simplest 
possible  manner.  Her  young  face  was 
scrubbed-looking,  and  her  make-up  had 
been  apphed  lightly,  almost  invisibly.  Her 
pert  nose  was  peeling  a  little  from  sun- 
burn. She  wore  a  simple  black  dress,  and 
no  jewelry. 

It  was  only  after  we  had  talked  for  an 
hour  or  two  that  I  realized  there  was  good 
reason  behind  this  austerity  of  dress  and 
make-up.  Although  Sue  is  an  extremely 
pretty  girl  with  an  excellent  figure,  her 
charm  lies  in  her  personality,  in  her  serene 
poise  and  intelligence,  her  ability  to  be  in 
command  of  any  situation. 

The  impact  of  that  personality  is  im- 
mensely heightened  by  the  fact  that  she 
looks  like  a  schoolgirl  down  from  Vassar 
to  meet  a  grandmother-who-disapproves- 
of-things.  It's  a  good  thing  she  hasn't  got 
such  a  grandmother.  Why?  Well,  that's 
quite  a  story. 

You  see,  when  Sue  first  came  to  New 
York,  she  put  up  at  the  Studio  Club,  an 
extremely  respectable  lodging  place  for 
young  girls.  At  first,  she  didn't  know 
anybody.  Then,  one  afternoon,  she  step- 
ped out  of  her  room,  all  dressed  up — just 
as  the  girl  who  lived  next  door  came  in, 
folding  a  dripping  umbrella.  "My  gosh,  is 
it  raining?"  Sue  wailed.  "And  I  left  my 
umbrella  in  a  cab  yesterday!" 

"It's  pouring,"  said  the  girl,  and  matter- 
of-factly  held  out  her  own  umbrella. 
"Here,  take  this  one." 

"But  what  if  you  need  it  before  I  get 
back?" 

"Then  I'll  borrow  from  somebody  else. 
See  you  when  you  get  back,  and  I'll  tell 
you  how   the   system   works." 

Later  that  night,  Sue  returned  the  um- 
brella and  had  a  long,  informative  chat 
with  the  girl,  whose  name  was  Priscilla 
and  who  was  a  private  secretary  and 
a  singing  student.  She  was  twenty-four, 
and  wise  in  the  ways  of  the  big  city.  She 
explained  how  girls  at  the  Club  aug- 
mented their  wardrobes  by  borrowing 
from  one  another,  and  gave  Sue  some 
other  pointers,  as  well — lessons  that  Sue, 
then  only  eighteen,  might  have  had  to 
learn  the  hard  way. 

Not  long  after  that,  another  girl,  Inez, 
a  secretary  in  an  advertising  agency,  joined 
the  team,  and  this  newly  formed  trium- 
virate of  career  girls — all  for  one  and  one 
for  all — decided  the  only  sensible  thing 
to   do  would   be  to   pool  their  funds   and 


The  danger  in  waiting  for 
your  child  to  outgrow  pimples 


by  MARCELLA  HOLMES 
NOTED  BEAUTY  AUTHORITY 

(former  Beauty  Editor  of  "Glamour"  magazine) 

Of  all  the  mail  that  reaches  a 
beauty  editor's  desk,  there  is  none 
so  urgent— so  heartbreaking— as 
letters  from  young  people  with 
disturbed  adolescent  skin.  That's 
why  I  feel  it  is  important  to  alert 
mothers  to  the  double  dangers  of 
this  teen-age  problem. 

Psychologists  tell  us  that  pimples 
undermine  poise  and  self-confi- 
dence, can  even  cause  permanent 
damage  to  a  child's  personality. 
Skin  specialists  warn  of  another 
danger:  acne-type  pimples,  if  neg- 
lected, can  leave  the  child's  skin 
permanently  scarred. 

Fortunately,  today  there  is  a 
modern  scientific  medication  de- 
veloped especially  for  pimples.  It 
is  called  clearasil  .  .  .  and 
CLEARASIL  has  been  actually  tested 


and  proved  effective.  In  skin  spe- 
cialists' tests  on  202  patients,  9  out 
of  every  1 0  cases  were  cleared  up  or 
definitely  improved  while  using 
CLEARASIL. 

Greaseless,  fast-drying,  antisep- 
tic ..  .  CLEARASIL  may  be  said  to 
"starve"  pimples  because  it  helps 
remove  the  oils  pimples  feed  on.' 
Ends  embarrassment  immediately 
because  CLEARASIL  is  skin-colored 
to  hide  pimples  as  it  works. 

So,  if  you  have  a  teen-age  girl  or 
boy,  watch  carefully  for  the  first 
sign  of  pimples  .  .  .  then  take 
action.  CLEARASIL  is  guaranteed 
to  work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors' 
tests  or  money  back.  59 i  and  98(4 
at  all  druggists. 

SPECIAL  OFFER:  Send  name, 
address  and  15^  in  coins  or  stamps  for 
generous  trial  size  of  clearasil  to 
Eastco,  Inc.,  Box  12  FF, White  Plains, 
N.  Y.  Expires  Oct.  31,  1955. 


75 


share  an  apartment.  They  were  already 
sharing  everything  else,  anyway — includ- 
ing occasional  dates  with  the  same  boy- 
friends. 

The  three  girls  started  out  early  one 
hot  summer  morning,  each  with  a  news- 
paper with  little  pencilled  circles  dotting 
the  rental  columns.  When  they  met  at 
the  appointed  place  in  the  middle  of  the 
afternoon,  a  more  discouraged  trio  did 
not  exist  in  all  of  New  York.  Comparing 
notes,  they  found  that  not  one  of  them 
had  walked  into  a  place  she'd  care  to  stay 
in  longer  than  fifteen  minutes — well,  Inez 
had  found  one,  but  the  rent  was  out  of 
sight. 

They  were  dragging  along  Central  Park 
West  when  Priscilla  saw  the  "Vacancy" 
sign.  "It's  probably  either  a  basement 
room  or  a  ten-room  penthouse,"  she  said, 
"but  take  a  look  at  that  lobby.  Cool,  and 
all  those  chairs.  We  could  at  least  sit 
down  for  a  while." 

It  is  by  such  remarkable  flukes,  as  any 
veteran  apartment-hunter  could  have  told 
them  in  the  first  place,  that  you  finally  find 
what  you're  looking  for.  When  the  girls 
had  cooled  off  long  enough  to  follow  the 
building  superintendent  into  the  vacancy 
on  the  first  floor,  they  found  a  spacious 
living  room,  kitchen  and  dinette,  and  two 
bedrooms,  one  of  them  large  enough  for 
two  of  the  girls  to  use. 

The  girls  sighed  in  unison.  It  was  just 
right,  except  there  wasn't  a  stick  of  furni- 
ture, a  rug  or  a  curtain  in  the  place. 
"You  see,  it  would  have  to  be  furnished," 
Sue  said  to  the  super. 

He  grinned,  "But  it  is!"  And  then  he 
explained  how  the  management  kept  a 
big  warehouse  full  of  furniture  in  Green- 
wich Village,  and  all  the  girls  would  have 
to  do  would  be  to  go  down  there  and 
pick  out  the  things  they  wanted.  "$200  a 
month,"  he  added,  and  waited. 

Sue  did  some  fast  mental  arithmetic. 
"That  comes  to  $66.66  for  two  of  us,  and 
$66.67  for  the  other." 

"Couldn't  we  rotate  the  extra  penny?" 
Inez  asked. 

"I'll  rotate  if  everyone  else  will,"  said 
Priscilla.  The  three  of  them  ttirned  to 
the  super.    "We'll  take  it!" 

The  apartment  was  finally  furnished,  and 
the  girls  moved  in  on  a  Friday  afternoon. 
Everything  was  clean  and  sparkling,  and 
it  took  them  almost  no  time  to  pack  away 
their  things.  Then,  since  they  all  had  early 
dates,  they  went  into  a  mad  exchange  of 
dresses,  stockings,  even  shoes,  and  emerged 
twenty  minutes  later,  three  very  smartly 
turned  out  young  ladies. 

Since  Sue's  date  that  evening  was  a 
pretty  typical  one,  let's  follow  her  on  it. 
The  boy  was  a  law  student  at  Columbia. 
She'd  met  him  through  her  brother.  He 
was  tall  and  had  a  crewcut  and  was  named 
Jim  and  was  fun  and  altogether  nice.  They 
got  an  early  start,  the  day  was  warm  and 
sunny,  so  they  grabbed  a  subway  express 
to  the  Battery  and  then  rode  the  Staten 
Island  ferry  for  a  few  trips,  to  cool  off. 

They  stopped  off  in  the  Village  on  the 
way  back,  browsing  through  bookshops 
and  wandering  past  the  sidewalk  art  ex- 
hibits in  Washington  Square.  They  stop- 
ped for  some  pizza  at  a  hole-in-the-wall 
with  sawdust  on  the  floor,  then  made  it  to 
55th  Street  just  in  time  to  beat  the  curtain 
of  "Kismet."  After  the  theater,  they 
dropped  in  on  a  little  spot  on  Sixth  Avenue 
where  a  good  new  Dixieland  band  was 
holding  forth,  had  clams  at  McGinnis'  sea- 
food bar  on  Broadway,  then  meandered  on 

home 

T        Even  at  nineteen,  an  evening  such  as  Sue 

V    had  had,  topping  a  day  of  packing,  moving, 

H    and   unpacking   in   the   heat,   can   leave   a 

girl  pretty  worn  out.  Sue  stretched  out  on 

her  bed,  pulled  up  a  sheet,  kicked  it  off 

again,  sighed  luxuriously,  and  thought,  as 


her  eyes  closed,  "I'll  sleep  till  noon.  .  .  ." 

No  more  than  two  or  three  hours  later, 
the  stillness  was  split  wide  open  by  what 
was  surely  the  sound  of  ten  model-T 
Fords  being  driven  over  a  cliff,  accom- 
panied by  shouts  and  shrieks  of  maniacal 
laughter.  Sue  jumped  a  yard  in  the  air  and 
landed  on  her  feet,  running.  A  second 
later,  her  roommates  joined  her  at  the 
window. 

On  the  sidewalk  a  few  yards  away,  a 
crowd  of  revelers,  somewhat  the  worse  for 
wear,  was  happily  taking  turns  throwing 
empty  beer  cans  at  the  outside  walls  of 
the  apartment.  The  three  girls  squealed 
with  indignation.  But,  before  they  could 
think  of  what  to  do,  the  party  moved  on, 
the  noise  they  made  diminishing  as  they 
turned  the  corner. 

"I  can  see,"  said  Priscilla  thoughtfully, 
"that  there  might  be  disadvantages  living 
on  the  first  floor." 

"It'll  probably  never  happen  again," 
Inez  said,  yawning.  "Just  a  freak  thing — 
I'm  going  back  to  bed." 

"Me,  too,"  said  Sue,  yawning,  too.  "Good 
n wait!  What's  that?" 


ARMCHAIR  ADVENTURERS 

You've  followed  the  exciting  exploits 
of  MARK  STEVENS  as  the  crusading 
editor  in  Big  Town  ...  the  gallant 
deeds  of  PRESTON  FOSTER  as  the 
courageous  captain  of  Waterfront .  .  . 
through  the  magic  of  your  TV  screen. 
Now  follow  these  rugged  he-men  right 
into  their  homes  .  .  .  see  them  as  their 
own  wives  and  children  see  them  .  .  . 
in  revealing  words  and  exclusive  pic- 
tures .  .  .  through  the  magic  of 

November's 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand  October  6 


They  all  stood  listening,  and  there  was 
no  mistaking  it.  Somebody  not  far  away 
had  started  playing  a  couple  of  bongo 
drums.  As  they  listened,  another  set  of 
drums  started  up  half  a  block  down  the 
street,  picking  up  the  rhythm.  Then,  by 
twos  and  threes,  more  joined  the  chorus 
until  the  still,  hot  night  throbbed  with 
the  weird  beat,  and  the  entire  neighbor- 
hood seemed  to  be  one  great  vibrating 
chorus.  It  wasn't  until  an  hour  later  that, 
as  slowly  as  it  had  began,  the  serenade 
of  drums  faded  and  finally  ceased. 

"Now  I've  heard  everything,"  Priscilla 
said.  Sue  was  too  tired  to  reply. 

"But,"  Sue  told  me,  "we  hadn't  heard 
anything  yet.  Half  an  hour  later,  it  sound- 
ed like  every  siren  in  New  York  was 
screeching  in  our  living  room,  and  pres- 
ently a  hook-and-ladder,  two  fire  engines, 
several  police  cars  and  the  fire  chief  drew 
up  around  the  corner.  Just  when  we  were 
getting  dressed  so  we  could  run  out  into 
the  street  looking  decent,  they  all  went 
clanging  away  again.  And,  an  hour  later, 
as  we  were  starting  to  doze  off,  five  mil- 
lion kids  came  swarming  onto  the  sidewalk 
in  front  of  our  windows  and  started 
bouncing  balls  against  the  wall,  screaming 


and  fighting  and  generally  having  the  time 
of  their  lives." 

"Then  you  woke,"  I  said,  "and  found  it 
was  all  a  nightmare." 

"True,  except  that  I  didn't  wake  up.  I 
hadn't  even  gone  to  sleep.  I  carried  a 
bundle  of  laundry  to  the  neighborhood 
shop,  asked  the  people  there  some  ques- 
tions, and  suddenly  it  was  all  clear." 

Sue,  fresh  from  Philadelphia,  had  read 
that  the  melting  pot  of  New  York  had 
received  a  great  influx  of  newcomers  and 
hadn't  yet  had  time  to  assimilate  them,  or 
adequately  house  them.  But  she  couldn't 
have  foreseen  that  a  goodly  portion  of 
them  had  taken  over  the  neighborhood 
around  the  new  apartment,  and  in  their 
casual  way  had  made  it  home.  Ebullient, 
fond  of  noise  and  laughter,  they  were 
packed  sixteen-to-a-dozen  in  tiny  rooms, 
and  the  streets  had  become  their  common 
living  room  and  playground. 

It  was  fun  toi  make  a  big  noise  at  four 
in  the  morning.  It  was  hot  and  nobody 
could  sleep,  anyway,  so  why  not  play  the 
bongo  drums?  It  was  easy  to  set  fire  to  a 
mattress  with  a  cigarette,  but  there  was 
no  water  in  the  room,  so  why  not  call  the 
fire  department  to  put  it  out?  Such  fun, 
such  excitement!  And,  of  course,  children 
must  play  somewhere  when  school  is  out. 
Such  a  lovely  wall  to  throw  the  balls  at! 

"We  finally  figured  out  why  we'd  never 
noticed  all  this  on  our  previous  visits  to 
the  apartment,"  Sue  said.  "You  see,  we'd 
always  been  there  in  the  early  afternoon — 
the  only  time  the  neighborhood  was  quiet." 

Well,  there  they  were,  and  there  were 
their  neighbors,  living  it  up  all  night  and 
most  of  the  day,  and  the  girls  had  a  lease, 
signed  and  iron-clad.  What  to  do? 

They  stayed  of  course.  "I  was  scared  to 
death  at  first,"  Sue  said.  "Oh,  not  of  any- 
thing in  the  neighborhood.  But,  when  I 
told  my  folks  I'd  moved  into  a  new  apart- 
ment with  friends,  they  decided  to  drive 
to  New  York  for  a  visit,  to  sort  of  look 
things  over.  Naturally,  I'd  built  the  place 
up  in  my  phone  talks  to  Mother,  and  I 
could  just  imagine  what  they'd  say  if  they 
had  to  dodge  hurtling  cans  or — well,  if 
they  just  heard  how  it  was. 

"The  night  they  were  due,  all  of  us 
worked  like  mad  to  make  the  apartment 
look  as  nice  as  possible.  But  we  knew  it 
was  a  losing  fight,  because  the  weather 
was  hot  and  humid  and  everybody  within 
a  square  mile  was  up  and  out,  and  you 
couldn't  hear  yourself  think.  There  were 
sidewalk  picnics  and  squabbles  and  the 
bongo  drums  were  starting  and  somebody 
threw  the  first  can  of  the  evening,  and — oh, 
I  knew  we  were  in  for  it. 

"And  then,  just  half  an  hour  before  the 
deadline,  I  heard  the  wonderful  sound  of 
thunder.  A  few  minutes  later,  the  skies 
just  opened  up  and  buckets  of  rain  fell. 
When  my  folks  drove  up,  there  wasn't  a 
soul  on  the  streets,  there  was  no  sound 
but  the  rain,  and  through  the  windows 
you  could  see  the  trees  of  Central  Park 
glistening  in  circles  around  the  street 
lights." 

And  Mrs.  Randall,  walking  into  the  spot- 
less, candlelit  apartment,  turned  to  her 
husband  and  said,  "Why,  my  dear,  it's 
charming!" 

"It  rained  all  night,"  Sue  finished,  grin- 
ning. "Fate  was  kind." 

By  now,  of  course,  the  girls  have  ac- 
climated themselves  to  their  neighbor- 
hood, just  as  anyone  who  is  young  and 
hopeful  adjusts  to  the  changed  tempo  of 
New  York.  While  they  cook  dinner,  or 
iron  slips,  or  wash  out  stockings,  they 
raise  or  lower  their  voices  in  conversa- 
tion to  equalize  the  noise  outside.  They  are 
away  most  of  the  time,  at  work  or  at  play, 
and  when  they  are  home  they  sleep  com- 
fortably against  the  clash  and  clatters. 
Now,  the  New  York  fire  department  would 


wake  them  only  if  it  thrust  a  ladder 
through  their  window  and  came  in  with 
hatchets  and  hose. 

If  Sue  represents  a  new  look  in  young 
TV  stars,  the  story  of  her  life  so  far  has  a 
Dew  look,  too,  at  least  compared  with 
most  of  the  older  biographies.  By  the  old 
rules  of  the  game,  Sue  would  just  be  fin- 
ishing college  now,  and  then  she  would 
be  presented  to  Philadelphia  society  in  a 
white  dress  with  a  swarm  of  eager  stags 
surrounding  her,  and  then  she'd  get  mar- 
ried and  settle  do-wTi  to  raise  a  family. 

After  all,  the  Randalls  are  Philadelphia 
"mainliners,"'  and  her  father  is  a  real  es- 
tate counselor  (indeed,  he's  president  of 
the  national  association  of  such  counselors, 
which  he  founded).  Sue  grew  up  in  a  big 
hoiise,  with  a  big  garden,  in  an  atmosphere 
of  gentility  and  affluence.  But,  fortunately 
for  her  ambitions,  there  was  never  any- 
thing stuffy  or  Victorian  about  her  folks 
or  their  attitudes. 

They  sent  her  to  the  Lankenan  School, 
a  private  academy  for  young  ladies  where 
the  only  dramatic  activities  concern  Mr. 
William  Shakespeare,  and  the  tall  girls 
have  to  play  the  boys'  roles.  Sue  was  tall, 
but  boys'  roles  didn't  suit  her  at  aU,  so 
she  began  joining  little-theater  groups 
around  Philadelphia.  One  of  them  cast  her 
as  Miriam  in  "Dear  Ruth" — and,  from  then 
on,  Mr.  Randall  was  wasting  his  breath 
when  he  kept  talking,  year  after  year, 
about  Sue's  going  to  college. 

Sue  was  Corliss  in  "Kiss  and  Tell,"  and 
Jenny  in  "Jenny  Kissed  Me,"  and  Ginny 
in  "Goodbye  My  Fancy,"  and  she  did  some 
musiccils.  She  grew  older  and  became 
pretty,  and  her  brother  introduced  her  to 
some  of  his  fraternity  brothers,  and  a  new 
world  of  dates  and  romance  opened  up  be- 
fore her.  She  loved  it,  but  she  was  not  to 
be  sidetracked  by  anything  like  a  man — 
not  yet,  anyway. 

She  was  going  places.  Nothing  could  stop 
her  now.  She  modeled  for  a  Philadelphia 
store,  and  for  youthful  fashion  magazines. 
In  1952,  she  did  her  first  stint  in  summer 
stock.  And,  finally,  when  she  finished 
school,  she  took  off  for  New  York,  with 
her  parents'  blessing.  She  studied  at  the 
American  Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts,  and 
spent  a  summer  at  Richard  Aldrich's  Fal- 
mouth Playhouse,  appearing  -with  Helen 
Hayes — of  all  exciting  and  vuiforgettable 
experiences — and  then  in  "Life  with 
Father,"  and  in  "The  Swan,"  with  Gloria 
VanderbUt. 

Whewl  Here  we  are,  up  to  date,  with 
our  Sue  getting  assignments  in  Pond's 
Theater,  Armstrong  Circle  Theater,  Kraft 
Television  Theater — and  finally  walking 
into  the  office  of  one  Buz  Blair  and  cap- 
turing the  prize  role  of  Diane  in  Valiant 
Lady,  after  a  hundred  girls  had  read  for  it. 

And  here's  a  revealing  glimpse  of  Sue 
as  she  really  is: 

She  came  home  to  the  apartment,  not 
long  ago,  with  a  kitten  a  friend  had  given 
her.  When  Priscilla  and  Inez  arrived  an 
hour  or  two  later.  Sue  was  reading  a  book 
and  the  kitten  was  playing  with  a  spool. 

"Don't  worry,"  Sue  said  at  once.  "She's 
housebroken.  The  boy  who  gave  her  to  me 
says  she's  a  very  rare  breed.  Very  delicate. 
Can  eat  only  scrambled  eggs  and  im- 
ported chicken-liver  pate." 

Priscilla  and  Inez  stared  at  the  kitten. 
"Well:"  said  Priscilla.  "How  delicate  can 
you  get?  Have  you  fed  her  yet?" 

"Siu-e." 

"You  mean — you  scrambled  eggs,  cind 
went  out  for  chicken-liver  pate?" 

"Are  you  kidding?"  Sue  grinned.  "I  gave 
her  half  a  can  of  cat  food,  and  she  gobbled 
it  down.  It  was  her,  or  me." 

That's  Marion  (Sue)  Randall — working 
hard  to  fulfill  her  own  dreams,  like  a  real 
Valiant  Lady! 


OPPORTUNITIES 


FOR  EVERYBODY 


Publisher's  Classified  Department  (Trademark) 


for  Classified  adyertmng  rales,  write  »o  William  R.  Sfewarl,  9  South  C/infon  Street,  Chicago  6  (Oct.-Wom.t  5 

OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

HOSTESS  WANTED!  GIVE  exciting  Parties  for  Profit- 
make  money  without  leaving  home!  Sell  over  600  new,  unusual 
gifts,  gadgets,  jewelry,  toys,  imprinted  stationery,  gift  wraps 
and  greeting  cards  to  friends  and  neighbors,  fvlrs.  Aaberg  of 
South  Dakota  made  $80  in  a  single  afternoon.  For  Free  Party 
Book  and  sensational  details  write  Party  Director,  Greetings 
Unlimited,  1406  Park  Square,  St.  Paul.  Minn. 

WOMEN— EARN  UP  to  $40  afternoons  or  evenings  showing 

adult  and  children's  apparel  in  Homes.  New  Style  Group 

Party  Plan.  Free  Outfit  Birginal  Fashions,  Bensenville  391, 

Illinois. 

BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  UP  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 

Famous    Hollywood    Cosmetics,    your    neighborhood.    Free 

Samples  and  details  supplied.  V/rite  Studio-Girl,  Dept  P-105, 

Glendale,  Calif. 

MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 

dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 

display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept  P-4359,  Cincinnati  25, 

Ohio. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED!  Earn  extra  cash  making  readi- 

cut  ties,  experience  unnecessary.  No  selling.  We  instruct 

Jud-San,  518  E.  105,  Dept.  J-1,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

EARN  AT  HOME  with  assignment  we  send.  $20-$50  weekly 

possible.  Other  self  employment  offers  listed.  Free  details; 

CHILDREN'S  PHOTOS  WANTED  (all  ages).  High  fees  paid 
by  advertisers  for  use  in  magazines,  calendars,  billboards. 
Send  one  small  photo  for  approval — returned  two  weeks.  Print 
child's,  parent's  name,  address  on  back.  No  obligation.  Na- 
tional Photo  Exhibitors,  406-P4  N.  Beverly  Drive,  Beverly 
Hills,  California. 

FREE— BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalog!  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you,  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances,  Christmas  cards,  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
part  time!  Write:  Evergreen  Studios,  Box  846-C,  Chicago  42, 

IN  SPARE  TIM  Eat  home,  compiete  high  school  with  58-year- 
old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma.  Information 
booklet  free.  American  School,  Dept.  Z774,  Drexel  at  58th, 
Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

MAKE  SPARE  TIME  money  preparing  and  mailing  sales  lit- 
erature. Adams  Surveys,  3513C  Sunset  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  26, 
California. 

ENVELOPE      PREPARliiG— EXTRA      income      projects. 
Brochure  "$50  Weekly  Possible"— free.  Maxwell,  DepL  2-9, 
Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Wanted  Items  from  Your  News- 
paper   for    Publishers.     Newscraft     Publishing    Company, 
PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

PROFITABLE     HOME     BUSINESS.     Make     Fast-Selling 
chenille  monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32, 
New  York. 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 
possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 
Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 
HOMEWORK!  GUARANTEED  PAYI  No  Selling,  Everything 
Furnished.  Wallace,  Box  3,  Boston  22W,  Massachusetts. 

Maxwell,  Dept  1-9,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 
A  DRESS  SHOP  in  your  home.  No  investment.  Liberal  sales 
commissions.  Write  Bellecraft  Fashions,  111  YZ  Eighth  Ave., 
New  York. 

$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,  7159-B 
Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

IMMEDIATE  OPENINGS.  WORK  at  home.  Part-time,  full- 
time.  All  ages.  Write  Dept  170,  Webster-Kerr,  120  Elm  Street 
Orange,  New  Jersey. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY— Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B. 
Dunbar,  Dept  GlO,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
HOME  WORKERS.  MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
pay.   Experience   unnecessary.  California   Handicrafts,    Los 
Angeles  46,  California. 

FASCINATING  PIECE  WORK  at  Home!  No  selling!  We  pay 
you  I  Truart,  Box  438  Pasadena,  California. 
ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOME  sewing  Baby  Shoes.  Details  3c. 
Thompson's,  Logansville  2  Wisconsin. 
$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.    Easy.    Write    Studio 
Company,  Greenville  7,  Penna. 

MONEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

CAN  YOU  EARN  $40  Weekly  sewing  lovely  Baby  Shoes  and 
Mailing  Display  Folders?  Write:  Folders,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  Mailing  Advertising  Literature. 
Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 
$100  MONTHLY  FOR  doing  assembly  work  at  home.  Ken- 
craft,  Selma,  Indiana. 

GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  Shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid  Babbitt  $4165.00  in  few 
weeks.  Free  Book.  Washington  Mushroom  Ind.,  Dept  164, 
2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle  6,  Wash. 

60%    PROFIT    COSMETICS.    $25    day    up.    Hire    others. 
Samples,    details.   Studio  Girl-Hollywood,   Glendale,   Calif. 
Dept  P-105b. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

STUFFING-MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how,    Dept.   G-10,    Education    Publishers,   4043   St    Clair, 
Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

EARN    AT    HOME— we  help  you.  Free  details.  Maxwell, 

Dept.  3-9,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

OPERATE    PROFITABLE    MAIL    order    business.    Write 

Walter  Service,  4159-X  East  112th,  Cleveland  5,  Ohio. 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  cash   mailing  advertising  literature. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  CASH  preparing  mail  for  advertisers. 

Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

TRADE  SPARE  TIME  for  extra  cash.  I'll  send  you  full-size 
Blair  home  products  for  free  trial.  Show  them  to  friends, 
neighbors,  make  Big  Extra  Profits.  Write  Blair,  Dept.  185T, 
Lynchburg,  Va. 

ADD  TO  FAMILY   Income.   Unlimited  earnings.  Work  in 
spare  time  demonstrating  household  plastics  and  toys.  No 
canvassing   or  experience   necessary.    Halliday,   2-16  State 
Highway  5,  Dept.  B,  Palisades  Park,  N.J. 

SHINE    SHOES    WITHOUT    "Polish".     New    invention. 
Lightning  seller.  Shoes  gleam  like  mirror.  Samples  sent  on 

trial.  Kristee  147,  Akron,  Ohio. 

CALIFORNIA  SWEET  SMELLING  Beads.  Sensational  sel- 
lers.   Free    Particulars.    Mission,   2328AA  West   Pico,    Los 
Angeles  6,  California. 

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.   Send   $1.00. 
Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time 
with  58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 

MAIL  ORDER  CATALOGS 

MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog   (Plain   Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers;  $2.98  to  $22.98.  Crawford  s. 

Information  booklet  free.  American  School,  Dept.X774,  Drexel 
at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

Dept.  141,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 
INSTRUCTION 

HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes.  Study  at  home.  Spare  time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  catalog  HCH-27.  Wayne 
School,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 

TRAIN  FOR  GOV'T  Jobs!  Men-Women  18-55.  Qualify  Now! 
Grade  school   education   required.  Get  Free  36-page  book 
showing  jobs,  salaries,  sample  tests,  details  of  $10-a-month 
training    program.    Write:    Franklin    Institute,    DepL   G-37, 
Rochester,  N.Y. 

HIGH   SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.   Licensed  teachers. 
Approved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144-W, 
Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

MAKE  HATS  FOR  fun  and  profit  1  start  you  Free.  Lottie 
Johnson  Hats,  7052  Glenwood,  Chicago  26,  Illinois. 

WANT  TO  MAKE  Big  Money  at  Home?  $5  profit  in  an  hour 
possible  with  Invisible  Rev/eaving.  Make  tears,  holes  dis- 
appear from  clothing,  fabrics.  Steady  year-round  demand  from 
cleaners,  laundries,  homes.  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  8340-S 

PERSONAL 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men  and 
women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  endorsers. 
Repay    in    convenient    monthly  payments.   Details  free  in 
plain    envelope.   Give   occupation.   State   Finance   Co.,   323 
Securities  BIdg.,  Dept.  K-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

Prairie,  Chicago  19,  III. 

S70  WEEKLY— HOME,  spare  time.  Simplified  mail  book- 
keeping.   Immediate    income-easy!    Auditax,   34757CS,   Los 
Angeles  34. 

WOMEN!  SEW  READY-Cut  Neckties  At  Home.  No  Experi- 
ence Necessary.  No  Selling.  No  Machine  Needed.  Details 
Free.  Neckwear  Supply,  P.O.  Box  2066-P,  Inglewood  4,  Calit 
CASH!  SPARE  TIME,  making  scented  Orchids.  Experience 
unnecessary.  Boycan  Industries,  Dept  210,  Palm  Springs, 
Calif. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Discovery!  Free 
Trial  Offer.  Write  Pixacol,  Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
"DANCING     SELFTAUGHT"— COMPLETE    book    $1.00. 
Greenview,  Box  61 -HB,  Whitestone  57,  New  York. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

CANADA— NEWFOUNDLAND     COLLECTION      including 
early  issues,   commemoratives,    pictorials  and   high   values. 
Plus  set  of  fascinating  triangle  stamps.  Plus  set  of  unused 
British  Colonies.  Plus  large  stamp  book.  All  four  offers  free. 
Send  10c  to  cover  postage.  Empire  Stamp  Corp.,  Dept  PC, 
Toronto,  Canada. 

$200  WEEKLY  CLEANING   Venetian   Blinds.  Free  book. 
Burtt,  2434BR,  Wichita  13,  Kansas. 

BUY  WHOLESALE— 25,000  items— Catalog  25c.  Matthews, 
1472-K1  Broadway,  New  York  City  36. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

WOMEN— NEAT  WITH  sewing  machine.  Eight  profitable 
easy  sewing  proiects.  Write  Liebig  System,  Beaver  Dam  4, 
Wisconsin. 

SEW?   HOMEWORKERS   URGENTLY   needed.   Full,   part 
time.  Write:  Adco,  561,  Bastrop,  Louisiana. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-DX,  Whitestone  57,  Y.N. 

MAKE  MONEY  WRITING 

MAKE  MONEY  WRITING  Short  Paragraphs!  No  tedious 
study.  1  tell  you  what  to  write,  where  and  how  to  sell;  and  sup- 
ply list  of  editors  buying  from  beginners.  Many  small  checks 
add  up  quickly.  Write  to  sell,  right  away.  Send  for  free  facts. 
Benson  Barrett,  1751  Morse,  Dept.  C-134-K,  Chicago  26. 

CARTOONING  &  COMMERCIAL  ART 

HEALTH  &  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,   Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  <S.  Minor 
Hospital,  Suite  C-1013,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

MALE  &  FEMALE    HELP  WANTED 

"HOW  TO  MAKE  Money  with  Simple  Cartoons"— A  book 
everyone  who  likes  to  draw  should  have.  It  is  free-  no  obliga- 
tion.   Simply   address   Cartoonists'    Exchange,    Dept   6810, 
Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio. 

NURSING  SCHOOLS 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 
Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept.  WP-18,  Chicago 
32,  Illinois. 

BOOKS  &  PERIODICALS 

FREE    ILLUSTRATED    HYPNOTISM    Catalogue.    Write: 

EASILY  MAKE  $65  wk.  as  Practical  Nurse.  Learn  quicklv  at 
home.  No  high  school  necessary,  no  age  limit.  Write  today  for 
free    booklet    lessons.    Post   Graduate   School   of   Nursing, 

Hypnotist  1324  Wilshire,  Hollywood  17W,  California. 
HOME  STUDY  TRAINING 

21E105  Auditorium  BIdg.,  Chicago. 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

PHYSICAL  THERAPY  PAYS  Big.  Learn  at  home.  Free  Cata- 
log. National  Institute,  Desk  6,  159  East  Ontario,  Chicago  11. 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  Types.  Foreign,  U.S.  Chance  to 

PETS— DOGS,  BIRDS,  RABBITS,  etc. 

travel.    Fare    paid.    Application    Forms.    Free    Information. 
Write  Dept  73K,  National,  1020  Broad,  Newark,  N.J. 

TALKING  MYNAH   BIRDS,  monkeys,  pets.  Herb  Miller, 
191 1-N,  Lubbock,  Texas. 

77 


Tennessee's  Partners 


(,Continued  from  page  47) 
the    worst    of    us,    there    is    some    good. 

"The  preacher,  my  mother  and  dad  and 
I  even  visited  the  chain  gang.  I  remember 
how  the  prisoners  clanked  their  chains  in 
rhythm  to  our  hymns.  I  learned  another 
lesson  there:  It's  never  too  late  for  faith 
to  touch  the  hardest  heart.  Once,  when 
we  came  on  the  gang,  one  giant  of  a  man 
spoke  up  to  the  preacher.  'Go  away,'  he 
said,  'you  can't  do  nothing  for  me.'  And 
the  preacher  said,  'Why?'  'Because,'  the 
prisoner  said,  'I've  killed  a  man.'  But 
somehow  the  preacher's  message  of  faith 
reached  him.  As  we  left,  the  big  man  said 
with  tears  in  his  eyes,  "Thank  you,  Parson.' 

"I  remember  on  Christmas  Eves,  during 
my  teens,  we  used  to  sing  carols  from  an 
old  coal  truck.  My  brother  Stanley  and  I 
borrowed  it  from  the  coal  man,  drove  it 
to  the  farm,  filling  it  with  straw,  and  the 
biggest  part  of  the  choir  would  pile  in 
with  my  brother  and  me.  We  drove 
through  the  township  from  county  poor- 
house,  to  the  two  Jails,  the  old  ladies' 
home  and  the  orphanage,  delivering  Christ- 
mas parcels  to  the  poor  folks,  candies  to 
the  kids,  and  singing  carols  to  all.  I  can't 
think  of  a  better  way  for  a  youngster  to 
live  the  spirit  of  Christmas." 

Every  philosopher  knows  you  can't  take 
life  too  seriously,  you've  got  to  take  it 
lightly  and  with  a  sense  of  humor.  There 
were  times  in  Ernie's  early  life  when  his 
humor  and  his  music  were  closely  tied  to- 
gether. 

Ernie  had  two  singing  teachers  when  he 
was  in  high  school:  Mrs.  Hayes,  who 
traveled  from  school  to  school  teaching 
music  and  glee  club,  and  Mrs.  Schroetter, 
the  voice  teacher  at  Virginia's  Intermount 
College  for  Girls.  "Mrs.  Schroetter,"  says 
Ernie,  "put  on  operettas  at  the  end  of  the 
school  season — but  she  had  to  go  outside 
the  college  for  her  male  voices."  Since 
Ernie  was  one  of  the  boys  in  her  private 
class,  he  was  always  invited  to  take  part. 

"One  evening  after  rehearsal  at  the  col- 
lege," he  says,  "it  was  raining.  Mrs. 
Schroetter  told  me  how  to  take  a  short  cut 
through  the  building  that  would  help  keep 
me  out  of  the  rain.  I  took  it,  but  didn't 
find  the  right  door,  because  I  ended  up 
in  the  girls'  dormitory.  They  were  in  their 
slips  at  the  ironing  boards  out  in  the  hall. 
When  they  saw  me,  they  screamed  and 
popped  back  into  their  rooms.  One  of  the 
girls  finally  showed  me  the  right  door.  But, 
luitil  she  did,  there  was  more  confusion 
than  a  bucket  of  red  ants  at  a  picnic. 

"During  rehearsals,  I  got  sweet  on  one 
of  the  httle  gals  in  the  college.  I  told  her 
one  day,  'You  stick  your  head  out  the 
window  tonight  about  11:30  and  I'll  sere- 
nade you.'  Well,  to  make  a  long  story  short, 
in  an  Eastern  girls'  college,  you  just  never 
did  anything  like  that.  But  I  did.  And  I 


got    reported    by    the    campus    policeman. 

"He  told  me  I  had  to  go  down  to  the 
court  next  day  to  make  an  appearance.  I 
told  Mrs.  Schroetter  and  she  said,  'Oh, 
bosh,  forget  all  about  it.'  I  forgot  it  until 
the  middle  of  my  solo,  when  in  came  the 
local  gendarme.  He  had  a  warrant  citing 
me  for  contempt  of  court.  It  was  all  Mrs. 
Schroetter  and  I  could  do  to  keep  him 
from  hauling  me  off  to  jail  right  then.  I 
had  to  promise  faithfully  I'd  be  there  for 
sure,  next  morning. 

"On  top  of  the  recent  ruckus  in  the 
dormitory,  I  was  getting  a  reputation 
around  Bristol  as  a  real  law-breaker.  If 
you  don't  keep  your  sense  of  humor,  sing- 
in'  can  get  you  into  a  pot  of  trouble." 

There's  an  old  saying  that  the  best  phil- 
osopher is  the  one  who  has  his  hsind  on 
the  plow.  Ernie,  raised  on  a  farm,  was 
never  a  stranger  to  work. 

"I  remember,"  he  says,  "as  a  kid  I  used 
to  go  out  in  the  corn  field  in  the  morning 
just  as  it  was  getting  light,  pick  a  pile  of 
corn,  haul  it  back  to  the  bam,  shuck  it, 
shell  it,  sack  it,  and  pack  it  on  the  mule. 

"Then  I  got  up  on  the  mule  and  we 
rode  down  past  Wheeler's  Chapel — that's 
where  Grandmother  and  Grandfather  Ford 
were  married — past  the  cemetery  where 
they're  now  buried,  and  down  past  the 
old  Barnes  house  (that's  where  my  folks 
were  married),  to  Mr.  Hall's  old-fashioned 
water-wheel  mill. 

"I  gave  the  miller  his  share  of  the  fresh- 
ly ground  com,  packed  it  back  on  the 
mule,  and  trotted  off  home.  For  dinner 
that  night,  we  had  corn  bread  made  from 
the  corn  I'd  picked  in  the  fields  that  morn- 
ing. 

"Speaking  of  work,  threshing  time  was 
the  biggest  thrill  of  my  young  life.  When 
I  was  big  enough  to  travel  around  to  the 
neighbors,  I  used  to  work  with  the 
threshers  sixteen  hours  a  day.  I  was  paid 
fifty  cents  a  day  cind  dinner.  Though  I 
was  feeling  mighty  puny  after  sixteen 
hours  of  work,  getting  to  sit  at  the  table 
with  the  men  made  me  think  it  was 
worth  it." 

When  he  was  twelve  years  old,  the  De- 
pression was  on,  and  Ernie  went  into  town 
every  Saturday  afternoon  to  work  in  Mr. 
Hughes'  grocery  store.  "I  swept  out,  car- 
ried packages,  delivered  groceries,  and 
waited  on  customers,"  he  says.  "I  worked 
twelve  hours  and  earned  one  dollar.  To  a 
twelve-year-old,  in  those  days,  a  dollar 
was  a  lot  of  money." 

Boy  and  man,  Ernie  is  as  long  on  hon- 
esty as  the  state  of  Tennessee.  At  the 
grocer's  one  Saturday  afternoon,  while 
sweeping  in  the  back,  Ernie  knocked  a 
dozen  eggs  to  the  floor.  Broke  every  one. 
He  could  have  swept  them  up,  put  them 
in  the  trash,  and  never  said  a  word.  But 
he  didn't. 


Reader's  Choice 

Features  about  TV-radio's  aristocrats  of  music  .  .  .  comedy  .  .  .  quiz  and  variety 

PERRY  COMO  and  his  great  new  show  on  NBC 
SPRING  BYINGTON  of  December  Bride 
JACK  STERLING  of  Make  Up  Your  Mind  and  Big  Top  .  .  .  they're  oil  in  the 

November  TV  RADIO  MIRROR 
on  sale  at  your  newsstand  October  6 


78' 


"Eggs  cost  twenty-six  cents  a  dozen,"  he 
says.  "So,  when  I  went  up  to  Mr.  Hughes, 
I  figured  I'd  owe  him  another  three  hours' 
work — or  at  least  he'd  take  it  out  of  my 
one  dollar  pay  check.  It  sure  irked  me, 
but  I  knew  there  was  nothing  else  to  do. 
When  I  told  him  about  the  eggs,  he  patted 
me  on  the  head,  saying,  'Well  boy,  too 
much  honesty  never  hurt  a  man — but  it 
sure  bruised  those  eggs.  Forget  it.' " 

Ernie  belongs  to  the  family-style  school 
of  philosophers.  This  is  best  illustrated  by 
the  manner  in  which  his  family  spent 
their  holidays.  "The  family  liked  to  share. 
And  it  showed.  Thanksgiving,  Christmas, 
the  Fourth  of  July — it  didn't  make  any 
difference  what  the  holiday  was — all  the 
iincles,  aunts  and  cousins  on  both  my 
mother's  and  father's  side  got  together  for 
dinner.  They  all  brought  something.  I 
could  barely  see  over  the  table.  We  al- 
ways had  turkey  and  chicken  and  coun- 
try-fried  ham  with  red-eyed   gravy. 

"Now  red-eyed  gravy  is  to  Tennessee  as 
beans  are  to  Boston  and  as  lobster  is  to 
Maine.  You  make  it  from  the  leavings  of 
the  ham  in  the  frying  pan.  To  make  red- 
eyed  gravy  you  add  a  half  cup  of  coffee — 
plus  your  other  ingredients.  We  put  it  on 
everything  and  what-have-you — biscuits, 
corn  bread,  light  bread — (light  bread, 
that's  the  store  bought'n  loaf) — all  in  all, 
we  were  pretty  sloppy  soppers. 

"That  was  real  family-style  living.  We 
never  had  less  than  three  kinds  of  beans. 
And  everything  was  home-made — cran- 
berry sauce,  jams  and  jellies,  ice  cream, 
everything.  I  especially  looked  forward 
to  the  holidays  down  at  my  cousin's 
in  the  country.  The  kids  went  rabbit  and 
quail  hunting.  Sometimes  we  were  able 
to  add  to  the  turkey,  ham,  and  chicken." 

loday,  Ernie  still  celebrates  family- 
style.  "My  wife  Betty's  sister  comes  down 
from  San  Francisco,  and  her  folks  come 
over  from  San  Bernadino,  and  the  country 
cousins  gather  over  at  our  place  in  Whit- 
tier.  Feel  lonesome  if  we  don't  get  more 
than  fifteen  or  twenty  around  the  table. 
And  we  try  to  have  the  same  kind  of 
spread — still  eating  pretty  high  off  the 
hog." 

But  with  all  his  success,  Ernie  has  not 
changed  in  the  eyes  of  his  family  and 
friends.  His  May  home-town  trip  back  to 
Bristol  proved  that.  In  the  big  parade 
down  Bristol's  main  street,  with  his 
mother  and  father  in  the  back  seat  with 
him,  Ernie  waved  and  called  to  most  of 
the  folks  by  their  first  names. 

And  next  day,  driving  back  to  his  house, 
he  stopped  in  to  see  his  near-by  cousin; 
he  found  him  in  the  yard  cutting  wood. 

"Hi  ya,  Ernie,"  his  cousin  said  without 
missing  a  stroke  on  the  saw. 

"Hi,"  said  Ernie. 

His  cousin  kept  at  the  log,  talking  over 
the  saw's  sound.  "Went  down  to  the  lake 
today.  Caught  a  few  fish — but  they  ain't 
been  bitin'  as  good  this  year  as  last.  .  .  ." 
Finally,  he  put  the  saw  down  and,  wiping 
his  brow,  he  said,  "What's  new  with  you, 
Ernie  .  .  .?" 

No,  in  the  eyes  of  his  family,  Tennessee 
Ernie  hasn't  changed.  It  was  as  if  he  had 
never  left  home. 

And  the  next  morning,  back  in  the  choir 
box  of  the  Anderson  Street  church,  Ernie 
felt  the  same  way.  When  the  great,  warm, 
welcoming,  back-at-home  feeling  rushed 
over  him,  it  was  as  if  he  had  never  been 
away.  Looking  out  into  the  smiling  up- 
turned faces  of  his  friends,  he  had  the 
thought  that  proves  him  a  philosopher: 
Faith,  family,  friends — these  give  meaning 
to  life  .  .  .  these  are  the  lasting  things  .  .  . 
the  things  that  never  change. 


Ethel  And  Albert 

(^Contimied  from  page  53) 
show,  vvTites  the  show,  and  acts  one  of  the 
leads.  Doing  three  jobs — plus  being  a 
mother — keeps  her  so  busy  that,  unlike 
Ethel  Arbuckle,  Peg  seldom  has  time  for 
a  nice,  friendly  spat  with  her  real  husband. 

Peg  Lynch  was  bom  in  Nebraska,  raised 
by  her  mother  and  grandparents  in  Ro- 
chester, Minnesota,  and  educated  at  the 
University  of  Minnesota.  She  majored  in 
Enghsh  and  drama,  so  she  went  to  work 
at  a  small  radio  station  as  a  writer-an- 
nouncer. In  general,  Ufe  was  beautiful,  and 
Peg  managed  to  sell  her  show  to  ABC 
shortly  after  she  arrived  in  New  York,  in 
1944,  and  has  since  made  the  transition  to 
TV.  Today  she  has  a  four-year-old  daugh- 
ter nameid  Lise,  an  antique  house  built 
around  1728 — and  the  handsomest  husband 
in  New  York   City    (and  it's  a   big  city). 

Alan  Bunce  was  born  in  Westfield,  New 
Jersey.  His  mother  died  when  Alan  was 
in  grammar  school,  and  he  was  raised  by 
an  aunt.  No  one  in  his  family  was  in  the 
theater  and  he  had  no  secret  ambition  to 
act.  Out  of  high  school,  he  went  to  work 
in  the  Cotton  Exchange.  He  quit  that  job 
to  sell  candy.  The  next  step,  combining 
both  experiences,  might  have  been  to  sell 
cotton  candy — but  Alan,  illogically,  be- 
came an  actor.  Today,  he  has  three  chil- 
dren, an  antique  house  that  was  head- 
quarters for  General  Israel  Putnam — and 
the  loveliest  wife  in  New  England  (and 
New  England  has  a  lot  of  people,  too) . 

Alan  originally  got  into  theater  work 
rather  casually.  While  he  was  trying  to 
sell  S500  worth  of  calories  a  week,  a  friend 
got  him  into  a  little-theater  group.  When 
he  was  offered  a  two-line  part  in  a  Broad- 
way show,  he  stopped  selling  candy.  Then 
one  of  the  leads  quit  the  show  and  Alan 
got  the  part. 

"My  family  thought  I  was  foolish  to  fool 
around  the  theater,"  he  recalls.  "They  fig- 
ured I'd  have  a  fling,  then  settle  down  and 
do  something  sensible  again.  Actually,  the 
theater  kind  of  reached  out  and  embraced 


A  eople  in  the  theater  took  to  Alan  easily. 
Even  his  wife-to-be,  Ruth  Nugent,  was 
practically  thrust  upon  him  by  her  father, 
J.   C.   Nugent,   the   actor   and   playwright. 

"After  my  first  summer  in  stock,"  Alan 
says,  "I  came  back  to  New  York  to  look 
up  my  only  contact,  Augustin  Duncan,  who 
was  directing  a  play  at  the  Belmont  Thea- 
ter. I  went  over  to  the  theater  and  saw 
that  the  cast  starred  the  Nugents — J.  C, 
Elliott  and  Ruth.  There  was  a  rather 
stocky  man  in  the  doorway  and  he  bel- 
lowed, 'What  do  you  want?'  I  got  scared 
and  mumbled  my  reason  for  being  there, 
and  just  then  this  auburn  beauty  comes 
to  the  door  and  the  man  says,  'You  take 
my  daughter  to  lunch,  young  man,  and 
when  you  come  back  you  can  get  to  see 
Mr.  Duncan.'  " 

That  was  how  Alan  met  his  future  wife. 
She  was  cast  as  an  ingenue  that  season 
and  played  her  part  so  simply  and  beauti- 
fully that,  for  ten  years,  critics  continued 
to  compare  every  new  ingenue  with  Ruth. 

"She  was  so  beautiful  I'd  just  melt  look- 
ing at  her,"  Alan  says.  "It  was  a  couple 
of  yecirs  before  we  married,  and  by  that 
time  I  was  completely  molten." 

The  marriage  to  Ruth  also  sealed  Alan's 
marriage  to  show  business.  He  has  since 
played  in  many  outstanding  Broadway 
shows,  including  "Valley  Forge,"  Howard 
Lindsay's  "Tommy,"  and  the  Grace  George 
vehicle,  "Kind  Lady."  He  has,  in  his  twenty 
years  of  theatrical  experience,  toured  the 
country  dozens  of  times  and  played  a 
half-dozen  foreign  countries.  He  has  well 
over  ten  thousand  radio  and  TV  programs 


a  world  of  ENTERTAINMENT! 


GARBO  to  MONROE 


BING  to  GARY  CROSBY 


BENNY  to  GOBEL 


TUCKER  to  CLOONEY 


STARLAMD 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


Picture-packed,  s+ar-studded  STARLAND  takes 
you  into  the  Show  Business  World — 
MOVIES.  TV.  RADIO  and  RECORDS 

158  Biographies,  274  Intimate  Pictures, 
174  Stories  of  Your  Favorites,  Latest 
News   Events   in  the   Show   Business  World 


YOU'LL  SEE  STARS! 

Harry  Belafonte 
Jaye  P.  Morgan 
Clark  Gable 
Mary  Martin 
Sammy  Davis  Jr. 


If  STARLAND  is  not  avail- 
able at  your  newsstand,  please 
mail  this  coupon  and  S0< 


Judy  Holiiday 
Humphrey  Bogart 
Eartha  Kitt 
Eddie  Arnold 
Sheree  North 


- — MAIL  COUPON  TODAY 

STARLAND  RM-1055 

205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  STARLAND. 
I  enclose  50c. 


Name. 


please    Print 


Address. 


City. 


.StQte. 


79 


to  his  credit.  During  the  past  spring,  he 
starred  in  Pond's  Theater,  Kraft  Television 
Theater,  The  Elgin  Hour  and  Studio  One. 

When  he  first  met  Peg  Lynch,  however, 
he  was  engaged  in  a  six-year  run  as 
Young  Dr.  Mcdone,  in  person.  "I  fluffed  my 
first  audition  for  the  role  of  Albert,"  he 
recalls.  "I  played  the  part  for  gags.  But 
I  was  so  enthusiastic  about  the  script  that 
Peg  gave  me  another  chance." 

Peg  had  "arrived"  by  that  time,  and  was 
on  the  ABC  network  fifteen  minutes  every 
weekday  morning.  She  hadn't  originally 
intended  to  play  the  part  of  Ethel  herself, 
but  it  had  been  the  conclusion  of  the  pro- 
gram's director,  Bob  Cotton — after  audi- 
tioning a  few  dozen  actresses — that  Peg 
was  best  for  the  role.  When  they  subse- 
quently lost  their  first  Albert — Richard 
Widmark — to  Hollywood,  they  auditioned 
a  new  crop  of  actors. 

That  was  when  Alan  Bunce  appeared  on 
the  scene,  just  eleven  years  ago.  It  was 
about  that  time  that  Alan  became  active 
in  AFTRA,  and  he  asked  Peg's  help  in 
writing  speeches.  "To  keep  the  facts 
straight,  however,"  he  says,  "let's  remem- 
ber that  I  had  another  critic,  too — my  wife 
Ruth." 

About  eight  or  nine  years  ago.  Bob  Cot- 
ton and  Alan  noticed  that  Peg  frequently 
absented  herself  without  reason  from  their 
usual  long  daily  chats.  On  August  12,  1948, 
they  were  invited  to  the  Little  Church 
Around  The  Corner  for  the  explanation. 
That  was  the  day  Peg  married  Odd  Knut 
Ronning. 

Odd,  a  Norwegian,  had  been  studying 
engineering  at  Syracuse  University.  He 
had  looked  up  Peg  and  her  mother  be- 
cause he  was  a  distant  cousin.  Odd  fell  in 
love  with  Peg.  Peg  fell  in  love  with  Odd, 
too,  because  she  wasn't  crazy.  Odd  is  very 
blond,  very  handsome  and  very,  very  nice. 

Today,  the  Ronnings  and  Bunces  live 
within  five  miles  of  each  other  at  Stam- 
ford, Connecticut.  Peg's  house,  more  than 
two  hundred  years  old,  has  thick  black- 
walnut  walls  which  are  so  hard  you  have 
to  drill  to  get  a  nail  in.  In  the  center  of 
the  house  there  is  a  six-foot,  square  fire- 
place which  faces  into  three  rooms.  The 
foundation  consists  of  six  boulders,  each 
the  size  of  a  Cadillac  convertible.  Alan's 
home,  though  not  as  old  as  Peg's,  has  con- 
siderable historical  significance,  for  Gen- 
eral Israel  Putnam  used  it  as  field  head- 
quarters during  the  American  Revolution. 
"Today  its  occupants  are  all  civilians:  Alan 
and  Ruth  Bunce,  their  two  sons,  Alan  Nu- 
gent (Lanny)  and  John  Elliott,  who  are 
Yale  students — and  Virginia,  their  fifteen- 
year-old  daughter. 

"The  boys  are  bright  and  husky,"  Alan 
says.  "Jill — that's  Virginia's  nickname — is 
a  lovely  girl.  The  way  she  takes  to  people 
kind  of  reminds  me  of  Peg.  The  other  day, 
we  drove  a  package  over  to  a  neighbor 
and  the  neighbor  wasn't  home.  Jill  carried 
the  package  up  to  the  door  and,  instead 
of  just  leaving  it  with  the  maid  and  run- 
ning back  to  the  car,  Jill  took  her  time. 
She  chatted  with  the  maid  for  a  miinute 
and  you  could  see  her  warmth.  It's  in  her 
manner.  She  enjoys  people  and  likes  to 
make  friends." 

When  the  Bunces  bunch  together,  they 
look  like  a  brush  fire.  All  have  red  hair. 
Ruth  is  blue-eyed,  with  a  trim  figure.  Now 
that  the  children  are  grown,  she  gives 
much  of  her  time  to  community  projects. 
She  has  been  president  of  an  organization 
which  calls  itself  "Arts  for  Youth."  The 
organization  supplements  public  school 
programs  with  concerts,  lectures,  art  ex- 
hibits, plays,  etc.  Another  thing  that  keeps 
T  her  stepping  is  General  Putnam's  old  head- 
¥  quarters — which,  incidentally,  is  now  a 
R  fourteen-room  house  with  two  maids' 
rooms,  the  latter  permanently  unoccupied. 

"The  children  are  just  as  proud  of  Ruth 
as  I  am,"  Alan  says. 


The  Bunces  function  smoothly  as  a 
family.  A  few  summers  back,  they  all  took 
off  on  a  six-week,  ten-thousand-mile  tour 
in  the  station  wagon.  Of  course,  there  was 
no  summer  vacation  this  year,  because  of 
the  show.  For  relaxation,  Alan's  chief 
hobby  is  carpentry.  He  has  a  fine  shop 
which  he  made  himself.  He  does  practical 
things,  such  as  building  porches  or  putting 
windows  in  the  barn.  He  also,  takes  care  of 
the  Bunces'  big  German  shepherd  dog. 

Peg  and  Odd  have  no  dog.  Odd,  you  see, 
takes  his  gardening  seriously  and  wants 
no  digging-type  creatures  in  his  flower 
beds.  His  flowers  are  beauties  and  fill  him 
with  joy,  but  life  is  still  no  bed  of  roses. 
During  World  War  II,  Odd  fought  in  the 
underground  movement  against  the  Nazis. 
Now,  a  family  of  moles  is  leading  an  un- 
derground battle  on  his  flowers. 

"You're  sitting  on  the  porch,"  Odd  says, 
"and  suddenly  you  see  a  flower  kind  of 
tremble,  shake  and  then  violently  disap- 
pear. We  run  for  the  mole  trap  and  apply 


^^^^^d 


"^i^mi^ 


it — but  we  haven't  caught  a  mole  yet." 

Odd  is  a  consultant  engineer  for  a 
Massachusetts  firm.  He  travels  quite  a 
bit,  and  Peg's  in  New  York  most  of  the 
time,  but  the  house  is  never  empty.  Peg's 
mother  lives  there  and — together  with 
Peg's  aunt,  Mrs.  Helen  Renning — takes 
care  of  Lise  when  Peg  is  working. 

"I  don't  like  working  in  the  city,"  Peg 
says.  "But,  if  I'm  home  and  Lise  calls  for 
me,  I  can't  refuse  her.  I  may  have  a  dead- 
line to  meet,  when  Lise  knocks  on  the  door 
and  says,  'Mommie,  I  forgot  to  kiss  you 
good  morning.'  Well,  you  can't  turn  a  child 
down — and  so  we  wind  up  playing  happily 
for  half  an  hour." 

Lise  is  quite  advanced  for  a  lady  who 
was  four  just  this  past  June.  She  can 
handle  a  typewriter  well  enough  to  turn 
out  fifty  different  words.  "It  was  all  her 
idea  to  learn  to  read  and  write,"  Peg  ex- 
plains hastily.  "We're  not  rushing  her. 
She's  rushing  us!" 

Lise  is  petite  and  pretty.  In  a  general 
way,  she  rather  resembles  her  father's  side, 
but  her  interests  are  similar  to  Peg's.  She 


recently  asked  Aunt  Helen  if  she  would 
please  take  some  dictation.  And  Lise  dic- 
tated a  script. 

"We  used  a  little  girl  in  one  of  our 
shows  and  I  made  the  mistake  of  telling 
Lise  about  her,"  Peg  tells.  "Well,  I  couldn't 
have  expected  it,  but  Lise  cried  because 
we  hadn't  cast  her.  I  explained  that  she 
wasn't  old  enough  and,  for  the  next  few 
days,  she  was  so  good.  I  suppose  she  was 
trying  to  show  how  old  she  really  was." 

Pictures  of  Lise  cover  one  entire  wall  of 
Peg's  New  York  bedroom.  TTiis  .  apart- 
ment is  the  same  one  she  occupied  when 
she  arrived  in  the  city.  It  is  a  handsomely 
set-up  place  in  an  old  brownstone  on  a 
very  quiet  park.  The  living  room  is  big 
and  comfortable,  with  a  fireplace  and  huge 
windows,  but  it  is  here  that  Peg's  secre- 
tary, Maggi  McAllister,  works.  Peg  pre- 
fers the  small  bedroom. 

Her  working  hours  are  punishing.  When 
she  has  writing  to  do,  she  may  get  up  as 
early  as  three  A.M.  She  has  coffee  and  hot 
bouillon,  and  keeps  working  steadily  until 
Maggi  arrives  around  ten. 

Peg's  standards  are  set  high,  as  is  ob- 
vious from  the  quality  of  her  show.  She 
is  quite  serious  about  every  detail  and 
yet,  in  spite  of  her  business-like  approach, 
she  has  one  of  the  most  genial  organiza- 
tions in  the  business.  As  Walter  Hart,  her 
producer  and  director,  says,  "We've  never 
had  people  work  with  us  who  weren't  nice 
as  well  as  talented." 

Walter  Hart  and  Alan  Bunce  are  the 
only  men  permanently  associated  with  the 
show.  Walter's  associate  producer  is  Toby 
Sutton,  wife  of  an  actor  and  mother  of  a 
one-year-old.  All,  however,  are  enamored 
of  Peg  for  her  kindness  and  humanistic 
attitudes.  And  the  show  is  something  they 
are  all  proud  of. 

Pride  in  Ethel  And  Albert — along  with 
a  proprietary  interest — seems  to  extend 
to  all  of  Peg's  fans.  They  have  played  a 
most  important  role  in  her  career.  If  you 
are  one  of  them,  you  know  if  you  write 
Peg  Lynch  a  letter,  you  get  an  answer 
from  Peg  Lynch.  If  you  answer  that  let- 
ter, you  get  another  letter  from  Peg.  She 
has  corresponded  with  some  men  and 
women  for  years. 

When  Peg  meets  one  of  her  correspond- 
ents in  person,  they  usually  test  her. 

"I'm  Mrs.  Adams,"  a  lady  will  announce. 

"Which  Mrs.  Adams?" 

"Of  Spring  Valley." 

"Of  course,  you  have  a  boy  in  the  Navy." 

Peg  has  a  list  of  friends  that  totals 
around  five  thousand.  The  entire  five 
thousand  have  not  yet  tested  her  memory 
but,  so  far,  she  has  demonstrated  phe- 
nomenal feats  of  recall  when  called  upon 
to  identify  the  hands  which  have  written 
the  letters. 

Peg's  fans  are  not  only  loyal  but,  at 
times,  better  informed  on  her  status  than 
Peg  herself.  A  few  years  back,  when  she 
was  on  network  radio,  she  was  told  in  late 
spring  that  her  contract  wouldn't  be  re- 
newed. She  had  planned  a  month's  vaca- 
tion in  Norway  and,  under  the  circum- 
stances, decided  to  extend  it.  Her  fans,  in 
the  meantime,  began  to  harass  the  net- 
work and  were  soon  getting  letters  from 
the  network  president  that  read,  in  part, 
"You  may  rest  assured  that  Ethel  And 
Albert  will  return  in  the  fall."  The  fans 
sent  the  letters  on  to  Peg  at  her  home 
address,  and  the  letters  were  forwarded 
to  Europe — and  that  was  how  Peg  first 
learned  she  would  have  a  new  contract. 

That  happened  during  the  first  year  of 
her  marriage:  "I  remember  calling  Odd 
from  the  studio  when  I  was  fired.  I 
remember  how  it  all  happened.  The 
woman  in  charge  of  not  renewing  con- 
tracts came  up  to  me  and  said,  'Peg,  I've 
got  something  to  tell  you.  Your  contract 
isn't  being  renewed.'  She  waited  and 
then  said,  'Don't  you  want  to  say  some- 


thing?"  So  I  asked,  'What's  there  to  say? 
My  contract  isn't  being  renewed.  That's 
all.'  So  she  said.  'Come  into  my  office 
and  talk.'  Talk  about  what?'  She  said, 
'Talk  about  your  contract  not  being  re- 
newed.' So  I  said,  'We've  already  talked 
about  it.'  She  said,  'You  know  we  don't 
want  to  lose  you.'  So  I  said,  'Lose  me? 
You  just  canceled  the  show.'  She  said, 
'That's  what  I  want  to  talk  to  you  about. 
We  may  want  you  back.'  So  I  said,  'Well, 
Fm  going  to  Norway,  but  I'll  leave  my  ad- 
dress so  you  know  where  to  find  me.' 
For  by  that  time,  it  occurred  to  me  that 
I  would  not  have  a  mere  month  for  my 
vacation  but  two  or  three,  so  I  phoned 
Odd  and  told  him  what  had  happened  and 
told  him  I  was  taking  a  taxi  home.  When 
I  got  to  the  apartment,  he  was  in  mourn- 
ing. But  I  told  him,  'I'm  happy  about  it.' 
He  said,  "You  can't  be.  Last  night,  you 
were  crying  because  you  lost  a  safety  pin — 
and  today  you  don't  care  about  losing  a 
show.  It  certainly  is  true  that  men  don't 
understand   women.' " 

"Adore"  is  not  a  word  to  be  used  indis- 
criminately, but  it  would  be  fairly  accu- 
rate to  say  that  Peg  adores  Odd.  And 
why  not?  Odd  is  pleasantly  romantic — 
when  they  were  separated  by  visas  and 
sovereign  governments,  he  had  the  florist 
deliver  a  rose  a  day  to  Peg.  When  he  loses 
his  temper,  he  always  blames  it  on  some- 
thing he  did.  He  is  always  cheerful.  He 
is  charming  and  gracious  and  good  com- 
pany. Like  a  Viking,  he  thinks  nothing  of 
driving  a  hundred  and  fifty  miles  from 
Massachusetts  to  New  York  to  have 
dinner  with  Peg — then,  at  midnight,  drive 
back  to  Stamford  because  he  has  promised 
daughter  Lise  that  he  will  be  at  breakfast 
in  the  morning.  He's  a  good  husband,  but 
has  given  few  ideas  to  the  video  series. 

"Really,"  says  Alan  Bunce,  bouncing 
back  in,  "you  have  no  idea  where  Peg  gets 
her  stories  except  out  of  her  own  head. 
Sometimes  we  can  give  her  an  incident. 
You  never  know  what  she  will  pick  up. 
Once  she  did  a  script  on  an  eccentricity  of 
mine:  I  like  to  finish  a  flight  of  steps  on 
my  left  foot  and  will  skip  a  step  to  do  it. 
Other  times,  you  think  you  have  some- 
thing terrific  for  her.  I  went  up  to  her 
the  other  day  and  said,  'Peg,  something 
very  funny  happened  at  our  house  this 
past  week.  My  aunt  was  visiting  and  she 
came  down  to  breakfast  wearing — '  Peg 
interrupted  me.  She  said,  'Stop!  You 
gave  me  an  idea.  Now  let  me  think  it  out.' 
Actually,  I  haven't  even  begun  to  teU  the 
story!" 

The  people  in  Ethel  And  Albert,  and  the 
situations,  and  the  acting  and  direction,  are 
so  simple  and  real  that  they  are  disarm- 
ing. The  aim  is  for  laughs.  But  even 
so,  it  would  seem  that  there  is  a  serious 
thought  behind  every  chapter. 

A  recent  story  whirled  around  the  com- 
petition between  Ethel  and  Albert  as  they 
checked  the  accuracy  of  each  other's 
memory.  The  more  serious  they  became, 
the  funnier  the  show.  But  right  at  the 
climax,  as  Albert  was  about  to  ax  Ethel's 
ego,  he  realized  how  unimportant  it  was. 
He  suddenly  felt  monstrous. 

"It's  Uke  that  with  most  big  argimients 
in  marriage,"  Peg  observes.  "If  the  couple 
could  remember  what  they're  fighting 
about,  it  would  seem  awfully  silly." 

But,  anyway,  Ethel  And  Albert  isn't  a 
show  with  a  message.  It's  like  a  weekly 
boxing  event  between  the  same  fighters, 
or  a  series  of  battles  within  a  war.  The 
series  reflects  the  classic  domestic  con- 
flict, two  people  with  minds  of  their  own 
and  motors  running  at  different  speeds, 
who,  in  spite  of  it  all,  love  each  other— 
and  who,  if  they  could,  would  smother  each 
other  with  happiness.  That's  what  gives 
the  show  its  blood,  its  warmth  and  laughs. 


HERE'S  YOUR  COOK  BOOK 

TAe  Mosf  Unusual  Cook  Book  Published! 


Here — at  last — is  your  dream  cook  book  .  .  . 
the  cook  book  that  has  everything  .  .  .  the 
cook  book  that  tops  them  all! 

There's  a  story  behind  this  cook  book — and 
a  fascinating  story  it  is,  too.  The  recipes  in 
this  cook  book  are  all  proven  recipes.  So, 
what  is  so  unusual  about  that  you  ask?  Well, 
most  cook  book  recipes  are  tested  by  col- 
lege-trained dietitians  in  scientific  kitchens. 
These  recipes  were,  too,  but  they  first  were 
tested  in  the  dining  rooms  of  actual  homes 
throughout  the  country.  These  recipes  are 
the  time-tested  favorites  of  True  Story  read- 
ers from  coast  to  coast.  These  are  their 
favorite  recipes — the  recipes  handed  down 
from  mother  to  daughter— from  Revolution- 
ary days  right  up  to  the  present  day. 

The  Magic  Cook  Book  is  your  cook  book.  It 
contams  the  very  best — the  most  unusual — 
and  the  most  highly  prized  recipes  ever  put 
into  book  form. 

Here  you'll  discover  Mrs.  BaUey's  Soda  Bis- 
cuits that  are  the  fluffiest  and  flakiest  biscuits 
you  ever  tasted  and  they  just  melt  in  your 
mouth.  And  for  the  dreamiest  main  dish,  you 
have  just  got  to  try  Mrs.  Lazaroff's  Veal  Par- 
migiana — your  menfolk  wUl  just  rave  over 
it.  Then,  there  is  Mrs.  Hooker's  Macaroni 
Loaf  with  Cheese  Sauce — this  succulent  dish 
just  oozes  with  zest — the  only  trouble  with  it 
IS  that  you  will  never  make  enough  to  sat- 
isfy your  family  or  your  guests!!  For  a  des- 
sert that  will  make  them  stand  up  and  cheer 
— try  Mrs.  Lockhart's  special  recipe  for  Pe- 
can Pie.  It's  the  most  heavenly  dish  to  top  off 
a  meal — and  you  will  be  rated  the  Queen  of 
Hearts  for  serving  it — time  after  time  after 
time. 

Space  here  is  too  limited  to  teU  you  of  the 
hiondreds  of  special  prize  recipes  this  un- 
usual cook  book  contains.  Each  dish  seems 
more  exciting  than  the  next.  With  this  book 
at  hand  meal  planning  is  an  exciting  adven- 
ture— not  a  chore.  Your  neighbors  and 
friends  will  want  copies  of  all  the  yummy 
dishes  you  serve.  Your  cooking  will  be  the 
talk  of  the  town!! 

At  times  you  may  be  called  upon  to  serve  a 
great  many  people  and  you  will  find  the  very 
help  you  need  in  your  cook  book.  Steeped 
coffee  for  40,  for  instance.  Or,  you  may 
want  to  surprise  your  friends  on  a  cold  Win- 
ter evening  with  a  different  drink.  Here's  a 
Hot  Cranberry  Punch  that  will  cause  a  flur- 


ry of  excitement.  In  Summer  you  will  sur- 
prise them  just  as  much  with  a  Spiced  Grape 
Highball  that  is  a  1-o-n-g  cooling  drink,  the 
likes  of  which  you  have  never  tasted. 

Here  is  where  your  cook  book  wUl  pay  for 
itself  over  and  over  again.  You  may  be 
overpaying  for  your  meat  and  not  know  it. 

For  certain  dishes  you 
get  better  tenderness 
and  more  flavor  by 
purchasing  the  lower 
grade  of  meat — and 
you  save  money  be- 
sides! Few  people 
know  this  and,  of 
cotirse,  your  butcher 
won't  teU!! 


Here,  too,  are  lunch- 
box  hints  for  chil- 
dren and  workers  .  .  . 
new  ways  to  use 
package  mixes  .  .  . 
canning  instructions 
.  .  .  rules  for  table 
setting  and  service 
. . .  and  numerous  ta- 
bles and  charts  that 
you  will  find  of  tre- 
mendous value. 

The  price  of  this 
giant  book,  which  is 
beautifully  bound  in 
washable  fabrikoid, 
is  only  $1.98— and  we 
pay  the  postage.  Or- 
der your  copy  of  this 
unusual  cook  book 
while  our  supply 
lasts. 


ESTHER  FOLEY 
TRUE  STORY 
HOME  SERVICE 
DIRECTOR 

—SAYS 

These  recipes  are  family 
favorites.  Many  were  sent 
in  to  us.  over  the  years, 
by  interested  readers.  But 
most  of  this  book's  reci* 
pes  came  from  tallcing  with 
housewives  in  their  own 
kitchens,  for  I  have  been 
able  to  visit  readers  of 
TRUE  STORY  and  its 
associated  magazines  the 
wide  country  over.  My 
purpose  was  to  keep  in 
touch  with  that  very  im- 
portant phase  of  house- 
work —  cooking  for  the 
family,  in  this  way  I  col- 
lected the  most  unusual 
group  of  recipes. 


r--"MAIL  THIS  COUPON  T0DAY----1 

Readers'  Service  Bureau 

TRUE  STORY,  Dept.  WG-1055 

205  E.  42nd  Sf.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  the  MAGIC 
COOK  BOOK.  I  enclose  $1.98. 


Please  Print 


Name 

Address 

City Slaie . 


81 


Born  To  Be  an  Actor 


(Continued  from  page  29) 
actor,  had  been  there  as  far  back  as  he 
can  remember.  And  it  probably  always 
had  been  the  stronger  one,  but  there 
seemed  to  be  plenty  of  time  before  he  had 
to  make  up  his  mind.  At  any  rate,  the 
conflict  was  resolved  cruelly  and  decisively 
a  few  years  later. 

John  had  been  graduated  from  high 
school  at  sixteen  and  gone  on  to  the 
University  of  Alabama  where  he  played 
football,  worked  on  the  paper,  joined  a 
drama  group,  and  also  took  a  lot  of  pre- 
med  science  courses.  He  had  fun  during 
his  freshman  year,  but,  one  afternoon 
toward  the  end  of  it,  this  phase  of  his 
life  ended  abruptly. 

It  was  one  afternoon  he'll  never  forget. 
He'd  been  in  a  gay,  carefree  mood,  walking 
with  some  friends  across  the  lush  grass 
of  the  sun-drenched  campus,  past  the 
stately  elms  lining  one  side  of  the  square, 
and  up  the  steps  to  his  fraternity  house, 
where  someone  handed  him  a  telegram. 
His  father  had  been  killed  in  an  accident. 
The  words  blurred  as  he  read  them.  Then, 
as  he  grasped  their  meaning,  the  impact 
left  him  numb. 

Later  that  evening,  he  was  back  home 
in  Haley ville,  embracing  his  mother.  Her 
quiet  dignity,  her  face  strained  with 
grief — that  was  another  thing  which  left 
its  mark  on  John,  teaching  him  more  about 
life  and  human  emotions  than  he's  learned 
in  all  the  drama  schools  since. 

There  wasn't  enough  money,  after  that, 
for  him  to  continue  his  studies.  His 
father — an  oil  engineer — hadn't  had  much 
work  during  the  Depression.  When  he 
was  killed  in  a  fall  from  a  derrick  in 
Hobbs,  New  Mexico,  he'd  been  working  for 
the  first  time  in  several  years.  Instead  of 
going  back  to  school,  John  had  to  stay 
home  and  help  support  his  mother  and 
his  younger  brother  and  sister.  After  a 
year  at  home,  he  went  to  near-by  Birm- 
ingham and  worked  in  a  railroad  yard, 
sending  most  of  his  paycheck  home. 

By  1940,  John's  mother  no  longer  needed 
her  oldest  son's  help.  But — with  the 
world  already  at  war — to  resume  his 
studies,  go  on  to  medical  school  and  be- 
come a  doctor  seemed  too  remote  and  dis- 
tant a  goal  for  the  husky  young  man  of 
twenty-one  who  was  anxious  to  make  his 
mark — and  make  it  soon.  It  was  four 
years  since  he'd  left  school.     Four  years 


during  which  he'd  stood  still.  And,  dur- 
ing those  years,  the  drive  to  be  an  actor 
had  definitely  gained  the  upper  hand. 

Nobody  in  John's  family  had  ever  been 
on  the  stage.  But,  instead  of  raising  ob- 
jections and  trying  to  dissuade  him  from 
so  precarious  a  career,  they  were  all  for 
it  when  he  told  them  of  his  plan.  "John," 
his  mother  said,  "if  that's  what  you  want 
to  do,  go  ahead  with  it.  I'm  sure  you'll 
be  successful  at  whatever  you  try.'' 

One  of  John's  first  discoveries  when 
he  came  to  New  York,  in  the  fall  of  that 
year,  was  that  he  spoke  with  an  A-la-ba- 
ma  accent  and  that  he'd  have  to  get 
rid  of  it  before  he  could  land  a  job  on  the 
stage.  Speech  coach  Frances  Robinson 
Duff  managed  to  "remove"  his  lazy  drawl 
in  a  relatively  short  time.  His  range  to- 
day easily  encompasses  the  sonorous  thes- 
pian  accent  of  a  John  Barrymore,  the 
model  for  a  part  he  successfully  portrayed 
in  "The  Royal  Family."  Nowadays,  the 
only  time  some  Alabama  sunshine  creeps 
back  into  his  voice  is  when  he  talks  to  his 
mother  on  the  telephone.  "For  a  couple 
of  hours  afterwards,  he  sounds  as  though 
he  were  livin'  on  a  li'l  ole  plantation,"  says 
his  wife  Louise. 

In  order  to  support  himself  during  his 
early  months  in  New  York,  John  worked 
behind  a  soda  fountain  at  Schraift's — 
which  was  a  veritable  hotbed  of  bright, 
young  theatrical  talent.  With  John  at  the 
same  43rd  Street  branch  at  the  time  was 
John  Forsythe,  while  Kirk  Douglas,  Rob- 
ert Dall  and  John  Lund  occupied  similar 
strategic  positions  at  other  branches,  and 
Gregory  Peck  was  a  page  at  Radio  City. 
All  you  had  to  do  in  1940,  if  you  wanted 
to  meet  many  of  the  stars  of  1955,  was  to 
have  sodas  at  Schraflt's  and  take  a  guided 
tour  through  Rockefeller  Center. 

Baragrey  had  his  first  break  the  follow- 
ing summer,  when  he  landed  a  job  in  a 
stock  company  in  Wilkes-Barre,  Pennsyl- 
vania. One  of  the  plays  he  did  there  was 
"Getting  Gertie's  Garter,"  which  subse- 
quently played  on  New  York  City's  "sub- 
way circuit,"  circulating  among  Manhat- 
tan, the  Bronx,  Brooklyn  and  Queens. 
This  brought  him  to  the  attention  of  New 
York  producers  and  audiences. 

His  next  major  engagement,  however, 
turned  out  to  be  with  Uncle  Sam.  John 
was  inducted  into  the  Army,  assigned  to 
Special  Services,  and  served  in  the  Pacific, 


82 


I  FELT 


74^meeded— 


Conflicts  of  fear  .  .  .  love  .  .  .  hate.  These  are  the 
problems  reo/  people  dea|  with  on  radio's  "My  True 
Story."  You  hear  how  someone  who  might  be  the  woman 
next  door  or  the  man  up  the  street — or  even  you — has 
triumphed  over  the  most  moving  emotional  difficulties. 
So  be  sure  to  listen  to  this  thrilling  series  of  stories  taken 
right  from  the  files  of  "My  True  Story  Magazine." 

TUNE   IN 


MY  TRUE  STORY 


// 


American  Broadcasting  Stations 

Read  "BLACK  WIDOW" — mystery-romance  of  a  woman  whose  twisted 
passions  and  intense  hates  ruled  her  life — in  October  TRUE  STORY 
MAGAZINE,  at  newsstands  now. 


where — of   all   places — in   New   Guinea   in 

1944,  he  met  the  girl  whom  he  was  to 
marry  four  years  later. 

Louise  Larrabee  was  a  young  actress 
touring  the  front  with  a  USO  troupe  in  the  . 
show  "Petticoat  Fever."  John,  on  short 
notice,  was  asked  to  take  the  featured 
part  of  the  radio  operator.  Louise — along 
with  some  two  thousand  GIs — first  took 
notice  of  her  husband-to-be  in  a  scene 
in  which  he  was  at  a  radio  set  waiting  for 
an  important  message.  All  went  well  un- 
til out  of  nowhere  a  huge  dog,  a  Great 
Dane — who  was  called  "Hamlet,"  of 
course,  and  was  the  mascot  of  some  outfit 
stationed  in  Rabaul — ambled  onto  the 
stage,  staring  hungrily  at  an  inviting  part 
of  Corporal  Baragrey's  muscular  anatomy. 
When  Baragrey  looked  around  and  straight 
into  the  dog's  drooling  countenance,  he  did 
a  perfect  double-take.  "Message  must 
have  arrived  by  dog  sled,"  he  announced, 
bringing  down  the  house. 

After    his   return    from    the    service,    in 

1945,  a  steady  succession  of  engagements 
kept  Baragrey  sufficiently  occupied  to  fore- 
stall any  return  to  Schrafft's  soda  foun- 
tain. As  a  matter  of  fact,  working  in  all 
three  media  of  stage,  screen  and  television, 
he  quickly  blossomed  forth  as  one  of  the 
busiest  actors  at  either  end  of  the  Hol- 
lywood-Broadway axis.  He  was  in  pro- 
ducer Fred  Coe's  first  dramatic  television 
offering — as  well  as  in  the  first  produc- 
tion of  the  Kraft  Television  Theater,  TV's 
oldest  dramatic  program — and  since  then 
has  starred  in  well  over  fifty  video  plays, 
appearing  on  practically  all  such  major 
programs.  In  1951,  he  was  voted  the  best 
TV  actor  of  the  year  for  his  portrayal  of 
John  Wilkes  Booth. 

In  the  movies,  he  was  first  seen  as  Esca- 
millo  opposite  Rita  Hayworth's  "Carmen." 
He  followed  this  up  with  "Shockproof"  and 
"Four  Days'  Leave" — with  Cornel  WUde, 
who  became  a  close  personal  friend — "The 
Saxon  Charm,"  with  Robert  Montgomery, 
and  his  latest  release,  "Tall  Man  Riding," 
with  Randolph  Scott.  Of  these  he  liked 
"Shockproof"  so  little  he  never  even 
went  to  see  it,  and  he  wasn't  much  hap- 
pier about  "Four  Days'  Leave,"  though  he 
enjoyed  its  filming — which  gave  him  a 
glorious  trip  to  Switzerland. 

John  came  to  the  attention  of  Holly- 
wood as  a  result  of  a  highly  successful 
fourteen  weeks'  engagement  in  the  sum- 
mer theater  at  Skowhegan,  Maine,  in  1946, 
where  he  was  spotted  by  Bette  Davis  who 
originally  wanted  him  to  play  the  lead 
opposite  her  in  the  film  version  of  Edith 
Wharton's  "Ethan  Frome."  Ever  since, 
summer  has  been  Baragrey's  busiest  sea- 
son, and  he's  acquired  an  enthusiatic  fol- 
lowing in  such  famous  summer  theaters  as 
that  of  Westport,  Connecticut,  the  Bucks 
County  Playhouse  and  the  Fairmount  Park 
Theater  in  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania, 
where  he  has  appeared  regularly  for  the 
past  several  seasons.  He's  also  been  on 
national- tours  in  "Arsenic  and  Old  Lace," 
"Jane  Eyre,"  "Richard  III,"  "Design  for 
Living"  and  "The  Bad  Man"  (with  Jose 
Ferrer),  "The  Green  Goddess,"  and  many 
others.  Last  summer,  his  principal  ap- 
pearances were  in  "Sabrina  Fair,"  in 
"Candle  Light"  (with  Eva  Gabor — they 
repeated  it  on  television  on  the  Pond's 
Theater  in  May),  and  in  "The  Road  to 
Rome"  (opposite  Arlene  Francis). 

Summer  stock  means  a  great  deal  to 
Baragrey.  "For  a  TV  actor,"  he  says,  "it's 
like  a  post-graduate  course.  Besides,  it's 
a  lot  of  fun.  There's  nothing  like  getting 
a  direct  response  from  a  live  audience." 

On  Broadway  as  was  mentioned  before, 
John's  luck  hasn't  been  nearly  as  good 
so  far,  although  he's  been  associated  with 
plays  of  such  stature  as  Ben  Hecht's  "A 


Flag  Is  Bom,"  Arthur  Koestler's  "Twilight 
Bar,"  and  Jean  Giraudoux's  "The  En- 
chanted," to  name  only  a  few.  None  of 
these  plays  had  much  popular  success, 
and  most  of  the  others  were  flops.  Even 
where  the  name  of  a  star  like  Constance 
Bennett,  in  "I  Found  April,"  seemed  to 
assure  success,  the  play  folded  before  it 
ever  reached  Broadway.  By  no  means  dis- 
couraged, however,  Baragrey  is  confident 
that  his  luck  is  bound  to  change  soon  and 
that  he'll  be  in  a  Broadway  hit  yet. 

After  their  meeting  in  New  Guinea  in 
1944,  John  Baragrey  and  Louise  Larra- 
bee  had  been  dating  each  other  off  and  on 
for  four  years,  whenever  their  conflicting 
schedules  happened  to  bring  them  together 
in  the  same  place  at  the  same  time.  This 
occxirred  again  in  1948  in  Los  Angeles, 
Louise's  home  tovm,  where  they  managed 
to  arrive  within  a  day  of  each  other — 
John  for  the  filming  of  "The  Saxon  Charm" 
and  Louise  with  the  national  company  of 
"Carousel."  This  time,  they  decided  to 
get  married. 

Making  their  home  in  New  York,  they've 
since  been  lucky  enough  to  avoid  any 
excessively  long  separations.  Both  of  them 
are  passionately  devoted  Gothamites  who 
flock  back  to  the  city  the  minute  any  out- 
side acting  chores  are  over.  "We'd  be 
very  unhappy  if  we'd  ever  have  to  move 
away  from  New  York,"  John  says. 

Their  base  of  operations  is  a  second  floor 
walk-up  apartment  off  lower  Fifth  Ave- 
nue, on  the  outer  fringe  of  Greenwich 
Village.  They  have  no  children  and  no 
pets,  but  seem  to  be  deeply  contented  in 
each  other's  company.  Neither  of  them 
likes  to  go  out  or  even  eat  out,  (in  fifteen 
years,  John  remembers  having  gone  to  a 
night  club  only  twice,  each  time  under 
duress).  While  Louise  paints — usually  her 
favorite  subject,  her  husband — John  ad- 
mits to  no  hobbies,  except  reading.  Having 


appeared  in  three  adaptations  of  novels  by 
Jane  Austen,  he  has  become  a  confirmed 
Janite,  but  has  no  other  special  favorites. 

Although  he  played  football  in  school, 
John's  trim,  athletic  build  today  is  by 
no  means  the  result  of  strenuous  exercise 
—unless  you  count  shaking  his  head  from 
side  to  side  saying  "no"  to  second  helpings. 
Other  than  that— "lifting  my  knife  and 
fork,"  he  says,  "is  about  the  only  exercise 
I  do  and  enjoy." 

According  to  his  wife,  he  is  not  a  finicky 
eater.  "John  will  eat  about  anything  you 
put  in  front  of  him,"  Louise  says.  "The 
only  exceptions  are  liver  and  lobster,  of 
which  he  isn't  very  fond.  But  he  loves 
okra.  Fortunately,  he  doesn't  insist  on 
hominy  grits  for  breakfast,  despite  his 
Alabama  upbringing." 

When  Louise  works  and  John  doesn't, 
he'll  take  complete  charge  of  the  kitchen 
department,  allegedly  wielding  a  pretty 
mean  spatula  and  proving  himself  a  shrewd 
shopper.  In  addition  to  groceries,  he'll  also 
at  times  buy  clothes  and  accessories  for 
Louise. 

"John  has  wonderful  taste,"  she  says. 
"I  can  trust  him  blindfolded.  The  other 
day  he  came  home  loaded  with  packages. 
T  was  feeling  so  good,  I  simply  had  to 
go  out  and  charge  something,'  he  said. 
But  the  nice  part  was  that  he  didn't  buy 
anything  for  himself — it  was  all  for  me." 

This  kind  of  unselfishness  has  made 
Baragrey  fully  as  popular  with  his  fellow 
artists  as  he  is  with  hiis  public.  He's  always 
willing  to  share  a  dressing  room  assigned 
to  him  alone,  has  never  tried  to  upstage 
another  player,  and  is  known  for  his  old- 
time  courtesy  and  considerateness. 

Though  women  have  a  marked  tend- 
ency to  flock  after  him,  Baragrey  has  none 
of  the  conceit  commonly  attributed  to  a 
matinee  idol.  In  fact,  he's  liable  to  be- 
come acutely  embarrassed  if  anyone  makes 


a  fuss  over  him.  It's  one  of  the  hazards 
he  dreads  when  he  goes  shopping  for 
Louise.  And  there  have  been  times  when 
unsolicited  affection  has  made  him  angry. 

Not  long  ago,  a  girl  somehow  got  hold 
of  his  unlisted  telephone  number,  called, 
and  asked  him  to  meet  her  at  a  certain 
address.  "Did  you  know  I  was  married?" 
John  asked. 

"Oh,"  the  girl  said.  Then  there  was 
a  pause.  "Do  you  have  any  children?" 

"No,"  he  answered. 

"Good,"  the  girl  went  on,  obviously  re- 
lieved.    "Then  it  doesn't  matter." 

After  he  hung  up  he  said  to  Louise  that 
they  really  should  go  up  there  together 
and  embarrass  her.  "That  wouldn't  be  very 
kind,"  his  wife  said  good-naturedly. 

"Well,"  he  answered.  "She  was  trying 
not  to  be  very  kind  to  you." 

Where  John  himself  is  concerned,  how- 
ever, there  isn't  a  vindictive  or  mean  bone 
in  his  body,  and  his  wife  maintains  that 
he's  about  the  most  soft-hearted  person 
Louise  has  ever  known.  "It's  reached  a 
point  with  John,"  she  says,  "where  he 
can't  read  about  an  airplane  crash  or  a 
highway  accident  without  being  upset  by 
it  for  days.  Even  when  he  doesn't  know^ 
any  of  the  persons   involved." 

Perhaps  that's  one  of  the  reasons  why 
John  Baragrey  gets  so  much  satisfaction 
out  of  the  more  sympathetic  roles  he  has 
played  on  TV  and  radio — such  as  young 
Dr.  Palmer  in  The  Doctor's  Wife.  There, 
in  particular,  he  found  an  outlet  for  his 
instinctive  reactions  to  the  suffering  of 
others  and  for  his  frustrated  drive  to  help 
and  to  heal.  That  was  a  moral  debt  he 
felt  he  owed  to  his  Uncle  Wash.  But,  as 
modern  doctor  or  historic  adventurer,  in 
radio  or  on  TV,  John  knows  the  content- 
ment which  comes  from  doing  a  job  weU. 
For  such  born  actors  as  John,  life  is  all 
drama — and  drama  is  the  life. 


Which  is  your  hair  problem? 


■^ 


Hair  too  dry? 

Lady,  you  need  suave 
.  .  .  the  hairdressing  that 
instantly  makes  hair 
shimmer y  soft,  relieves 
dryness,  restores  that 
healthy-looking  glow. 


Hair  won't  obey?        Dull ...  no  shine?        Brittle . . .  abused? 


Helene  Curtis  suave 
makes  hair  magically 
easy  to  comb,  set,  arrange 
. . .  and  keeps  hair  per- 
fect without  stickiness 
or  oily  film 


A  kiss  of  that  fabulous 
hairdressing,  suave,  and 
presto! — dull  hair  spar- 
kles, glitters  with  twin- 
kling highlights.  Leaves 
no  oily  look  or  feel ! 


Use  Helene  Curtis  suave 
to  condition  your  hair 
.  .  .  make  it  satin-soft, 
luscious,  eager  to  wave! 
Contains  amazing  new 
greaseless  lanolin. 


NEW— With    gmazing    greaseless   lanolin 


Solves  hair  problems  instantly! 


S 


HELENE  CURTIS 


uave 


HAIRDRESSING  &  CONDITIONER 


New,  Improved  SUAVE  brings  you  a  revolutionary 
Helene  Curtis  discovery — greaseless  lanolin!  Now — in  SUAVE — 
get  the  famous  benefits  of  lanolin  without  oily  look  and  feel! 
Let  New,  Improved  SUAVE  tZ.Qt  SI 

solve  your  hair  problem  .  .  .  today!     J  jtV  °"     f  |    pus  ax 


83 


(Continued  from  page  38) 
then    I    started    hearing    about    Joe    and 
Bombo. 

"It's  a  theory  of  Joe's,"  Rosemary  went 
on,  as  she  took  a  sip  of  her  lemonade  and 
sighed  ecstatically,  "that,  the  nearer  you 
come  to  living  like  the  natives  of  a  coun- 
try, the  better  you  will  like  that  country. 
Joe's  a  great  one  to  try  to  understand  a 
nation's  customs  .  .  .  why  they  drink  rum 
in  Cuba,  for  example,  or  why  the  English 
don't  like  ice.  And  it's  funny,  but  it  works. 
I  wouldn't  like  un-iced  drinks  or  tepid  beer 
in  Hollywood,  but  here  they  taste  just 
right." 

Then  Rosemary  was  groping  through  her 
handsome  black  handbag.  "Thought  I  had 
some  snapshots  here  of  Bombo  to  show 
you,"  she  explained,  "but  I  must  have  left 
'em  in  my  other  purse." 

"Bombo?" 

Rosemary  had  obviously  been  asked  the 
question  a  time  or  two  before.  "I  know," 
she  shrugged.  "Silly,  isn't  it?  Something 
his  father  thought  up,  and  it  came  from 
nothing  that  I  know  of.  He's  really  named 
Miguel  Jose,  you  know,  and  someday  I 
guess  we'll  get  around  to  calling  him 
Miguel — but,  right  now,  Bombo  seems  to 
suit  him  better." 

If  I  was  finding  it  a  bit  difficult  to  adjust 
to  Rosemary,  the  wife  and  mother,  it  was 
even  harder  to  visualize  the  brilliant,  ver- 
satile, unorthodox  Mr.  Ferrer  in  the  role 
of  doting  father,  and  I  said  so. 

"Joe's  a  wonderful  father,"  Rosie  said, 
as  matter-of-factly  as  though  she  were 
discussing  his  acknowledged  ability  as 
an  actor,  director  or  singer.  "He  has  a 
theory  about  babies,  too.  Before  Bombo 
was  born,  Joe  made  me  a  great  speech  one 
evening  in  which  he  expounded  this  theory 
— which  is,  briefly,  that  men  who  say 
they're  afraid  to  give  the  baby  its  bottle 
or  change  its  diapers  are  just  kidding 
themselves  and  really  missing  a  great 
deal.  I  kind  of  took  it  all  with  a  grain  of 
salt.   But,   sure   enough,   after  Bombo   ap- 


Everything's  Rosie 

peared  on  the  scene,  Joe  lived  up  to  his 
pronouncements  and  he's  better  than  I  am 
with  a  safety  pin." 

Much  as  I  wanted  to  hear  of  Rosie's 
career  plans,  her  British  debut  in  Glasgow, 
and  her  forthcoming  Palladitim  appearance, 
it  would  have  been  difficult  to  change 
the  subject  under  discussion,  for  which 
she  showed  such  enthusiasm.  Anyway,  she 
was  obviously  just  getting  warmed  up. 

"You'll  really  have  to  see  my  fat  baby 
to  appreciate  it,"  she  went  on,  "but  he 
looks  so  like  his  father  it's  ridiculous.  You'd 
think  I  had  nothing  to  do  with  him  at  all!" 
Rosie's  blue  eyes  twinkled  as  she  took  an- 
other sip  of  her  drink.  "Actually,  I  had  a 
quick  glimpse  of  him  the  moment  he  was 
born,  and  he  looked  so  like  Joe  I  couldn't 
stop  laughing.  Let's  face  it,  on  Joe  those 
features  look  good — but  on  a  new-born 
baby  .  .  .  well!" 

"Did  we  want  a  boy?"  Rosemary  re- 
peated my  next  question.  "I'll  say  we  did. 
You  see,  my  nine-year-old  sister,  Gail, 
lives  with  us,  so  we  already  felt  as  though 
we  had  a  daughter  and  we  wanted  a  son 
very  badly.  So  when  the  baby  was  born — 
and  I  got  over  laughing  at  his  looks — I 
begged  the  doctor  to  let  me  tell  Joe  my- 
self. He  was  in  the  waiting  room  and,  as 
they  wheeled  me  down  the  corridor  to- 
ward my  room,  I  spied  him  and  shouted, 
'It's  a  boy.  How  happy  can  you  get?' " 

In  view  of  Rosemary's  obvious  enthus- 
iasm for  motherhood,  my  next  question 
was  a  foolish  one,  but  I  asked  it  all  the 
same:    Did  she  want  any  more  children? 

"Gosh,  yes!"  She  had  scarcely  waited  for 
the  words  to  be  out  of  my  mouth.  "At  least 
five  more.  You  see,  that's  the  good  thing 
about  making  records  for  a  living  .  .  .  and 
recording  my  radio  show.  It  doesn't  mat- 
ter about  my  figure — and,  believe  me,  I  put 
on  weight  having  Bombo.  It  seemed  like 
he'd  never  arrive." 

(Rosemary,  incidentally,  isn't  the  only 
one  who  enjoys  the  state  of  impending 
motherhood.  In  the  long  run,  all  her  fans 


Rosemary  Clooney  and  her  accompanist,  Buddy  Cole,  in  front  of  the  Ferrers' 
London  hotel.  Cor  is  a  Lagonda — with  steering  wheel  on  right,  in  British  style. 


benefit,  for  her  manager,  Joe  Shribman, 
reports  that  she  never  sang  better  than 
when  she  was  expecting  her  baby.  "Her 
recording  of  'Hey  There'  and  'This  Ole 
House'  was  made  while  Rosie  was  waiting 
for  the  baby,"  he  said,  "and  it  sold  over 
two  million  copies.") 

Now  Rosemary  was  searching  through 
her  bag  again.  With  a  quick  glance  to 
make  sure  husband  Jose  wasn't  lurking 
around  the  pillars,  she  drew  out  a  small 
box  and  thrust  it  into  my  hands. 

"A  present  to  Joe  for  our  second  anni- 
versary," she  explained.  "Five  years  ago, 
he  received  some  garters  from  Cartier's 
with  gold  slides  and  hooks  on  them.  And, 
ever  since  I've  known  him,  he's  been  drop- 
ping hints  about  having  suspenders  to 
match.  So  .  .  ."  she  watched  proudly  as  I 
raised  the  lid  to  reveal  the  gold-trimmed 
suspenders,  "I  picked  them  up  from  Car- 
tier's  this  morning." 

You've  come  a  long  way,  Rosie,  I 
thought,  from  the  little  town  of  Mays- 
ville,  Kentucky — where  you  were  born 
on  May  23,  1928 — to  shopping  at  Cartier's 
on  Bond  Street  in  London  .  .  .  from  doing 
kid  vocal  duets  with  your  sister  Betty  to 
starring  in  pictures,  on  your  own  radio 
show — and  now,  at  that  mecca  of  all  per- 
formers, the  London  Palladium. 

Everything  careerwise  happened  so  fast 
to  Rosie  that  it  might  have  turned  a  less 
level  head.  Her  first  singing  experience 
came  when  she  provided  entertainment  for 
her  grandfather's  mayoral  political  rallies 
back  in  Maysville.  Then,  after  the  Clooney 
family  moved  to  Cincinnati,  she  and  sister 
Betty  became  a  vocal  team,  and  sang  for 
several  months  on  radio  station  WLW. 
There  they  were  heard  by  bandleader  Tony 
Pastor,  who  immediately  signed  them  as 
featiired  vocalists  with  his  orchestra — and, 
since  both  girls  were  under  eighteen,  an 
uncle  accompanied  them  on  tour  as  chap- 
eron. 

It  was  while  Rosemary  was  singing 
with  Pastor  that  she  first  came  to  the  at- 
tention of  Joe  Shribman,  who  pulled  her 
out  of  the  band  and  put  her  out  as  a  solo 
recording  act.  Her  first  record,  "Bargain 
Day,"  made  little  impact  on  the  disc  fans 
of  the  country.  Neither  did  her  second, 
or  third — or  even  tenth.  Then  came  "Come 
On-a  My  House,"  and  the  rest  is  history. 
Suffice  it  to  say  Rosemary  still  gets 
shaky  when  she  thinks  how  close  she  came 
not  to  recording  the  tune  ...  for  the  sim- 
ple reason  that  she  was  afraid  of  the 
Armenian   dialect. 

Night-club  engagements,  radio  and  TV, 
pictures,  romance,  marriage  and  mother- 
hood .  .  .  Rosie  Clooney  has  taken  them  all 
in  her  stride.  She's  still  as  luiaffected  as 
a  friendly  puppy;  she  has  no  illusions  about 
herself  as  an  actress  or  a  glamour  girl. 
"I'm  a  girl  anyone  can  look  like,"  she  says, 
which  is  somewhat  of  an  exaggeration, 
when  one  considers  her  five-feet-four- 
inches  of  slimness  and  the  fact  that  she 
must  diet  carefully — to  gain  weight.  She 
likewise  has  no  illusions  about  her  Para- 
mount contract.  "I'd  recorded  a  hit  tune," 
she  says,  "and  I  knew  the  studio  merely 
wanted  to  take  advantage  of  what  popu- 
larity I'd  achieved.  If  I've  been  able  to  act 
a  bit,  as  well  as  sing  .  .  .  well,  it's  to  the 
directors'  credit,  not  mine.  I  just  do 
what  they  tell  me  to."  Refreshing  candor, 
indeed,  in  a  business  where  most  comed- 
ians yearn  to  play  Shakespeare,  and  too 
many  glamour  girls  fancy  themselves  great 
tragediennes.  Refreshing,  too,  to  find  a 
girl  whom  stardom  has  not  changed.^  As  a 
British  newspaperman  put  it,  "She's  ex- 
actly the  same  as  she  was  when  I  met  her 
in  New  York  five  years  ago." 

But  now  Rosemary  was  carefully  tuck- 
ing the  anniversary  gift  away,  and  settling 


back  to  talk  of  her  second  favorite  sub- 
ject— Great  Britain. 

"We  both  love  the  British  Isles,  really," 
she  smiled.  "Must  be  a  throwback  to  my 
Irish  great-grandpop,  I  guess — for,  al- 
though this  is  my  first  visit,  I  feel  as 
though  I'd  lived  here  all  my  life." 

Jose,  in  England  for  studio  interior  shots 
after  directing  and  starring  in  "Cockleshell 
Heroes"  in  Spain,  rented  a  country  house 
in  time  for  the  arrival  of  Rosie  and  the 
baby  ...  a  remodeled  old  dwelling  known 
as  Black  Jack's  Mill. 

"It's  terrific,"  Rosemary  rhapsodized. 
"Straight  out  of  'Mrs.  Miniver'.  Lots  of 
china  and  copper  and  huge  fireplaces,  and 
the  mill  stream  running  alongside.  It 
was  really  a  mill,  you  know,  when  it  was 
built  a  couple  of  hundred  years  ago,  but 
I'm  happy  to  report  that  it  was  modernized 
by  an  American  and  has  five  bathrooms 
and  central  heating.  Let's  face  it,  it  isn't 
always  as  warm  in  England  as  it  is  today." 

Rosie  loves  living  in  the  covmtry,  and 
the  hour's  drive  into  the  heart  of  London 
doesn't  bother  her  in  the  least.  "Although 
I  wouldn't  dare  to  drive  myself  in  Eng- 
land," she  added.  "I've  only  just  learned 
to  cope  with  traffic  in  California,  and  this 
left-side-of-the-road  business  has  me  com- 
pletely bafRed,  even  when  I'm  on  foot.  But 
Joe  is  wonderful.  I  guess  he's  ambidex- 
trous or  something,  but  it  doesn't  bother 
him  at  all  to  drive  on  the  wrong  side  of 
the  car  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  road.  As 
for  living  in  the  country — well,  I'm  really 
used  to  it.  After  all,  it's  as  quiet  as  the 
country  where  we  live  in  Beverly  Hills, 
and  even  our  apartment  in  New  York  is 
very  high  and  faces  away  from  the  street, 
so  we  might  be  miles  away  from  all  the 
hustle  and  bustle  of  the  city. 

"As  a  matter  of  fact,"  Rosemary  con- 
tinued, "my  week's  engagement  in  Glas- 
gow found  me  living  a  city-type  existence 


for  the  first  time  in  ages,  and  I  can't  say 
I'm  enamored  of  it.  Our  hotel  was  next 
door  to  the  station,  and  two  trains  a  night 
seemed  to  run  right  through  my  room.  You 
know,  the  kind  of  engines  that  chug  right 
up  to  the  platform  and  then  let  off  steam 
with  a  terrific  'whoosh'  .  .  .  and  then  back 
up  and  start  all  over  again.  Golly,  when  I 
got  back  home,  I  fell  into  bed  and  slept 
from  five  in  the  afternoon  until  next 
morning. 

"The  people  were  wonderful  in  Glasgow, 
though,"  she  went  on,  her  eyes  sparkling 
at  the  recollection.  "Do  you  know,  after 
my  first  show  there  were  about  three 
thousand  fans  waiting  outside,  and  almost 
as  many  after  every  performance,  but  I've 
never  seen  such  orderly  crowds.  Just 
about  everyone  had  an  autograph  book  in 
his  hand,  but,  whenever  I  explained  that  I 
didn't  have  time  to  sign  any  more  because 
it  was  time  to  go  onstage,  they'd  wait  pa- 
tiently until  after  the  next  show. 

"The  audiences  were  wonderful,  too," 
Rosemary  continued.  "I'd  been  warned 
that  in  Scotland  they  really  considered 
themselves  part  of  the  show,  and  that 
they'd  call  out  compliments  or  insults  with 
equal  abandon.  But  I  guess  they  feel 
kindly  toward  Americans,  or  something, 
because  they  were  certainly  kind  to  me. 
And  it  was  all  so  friendly  and  informal, 
with  people  shouting  out  'Go  to  it,  Rosie,' 
and  calling  for  their  requests.  Mostly 
they  asked  for  'The  Dimple,'  and  I  finally 
had  to  tell  them  that,  since  the  baby's  born 
and  I  know  where  the  dimples  are,  I 
shouldn't  really  be  singing  it  any  more." 

Somehow,  you  see,  the  conversation  al- 
ways seemed  to   come  back  to  the  baby. 

"I  left  Bombo  in  England  with  his  daddy 
and  his  nurse,"  Rosie  said.  "I  was  only 
away  for  a  week,  and  I've  discovered  it's 
quite  a  thing  to  take  a  five-month-old 
baby  on  trips.     It's  the  luggage  problem. 


"Besides,"  she  went  on,  "it  was  time  for 
his  second  inoculation,  and  this  time  it 
was  Joe's  turn  to  take  him.  When  Bombo 
had  his  first  shots,  I  went  all  to  pieces. 
I'm  not  usually  the  sensitive-type  mother, 
but  to  see  that  little  mite  feeling  pain  for 
the  first  time,  and  not  being  able  to  ex- 
plain it  to  him,  was  more  than  I  could 
stand.  I  must  confess  that  I  burst  into 
tears,  and  the  more  I  cried  the  more  the 
baby  cried,  and  the  more  he  cried,  the 
more  I  cried,  and  all  in  all  it  was  quite 
a  damp  performance.  So  Joe  figured  for 
the  good  of  all  concerned  it  would  be  bet- 
ter if  Daddy  did  the  honors  the  second 
time  'round." 

Between  Glasgow  and  the  Palladium, 
there  was  a  quick  trip  to  Ireland  for  the 
Ferrers,  to  visit  their  good  friend,  direc- 
tor John  Huston. 

"I  guess  every  Irishman,  no  matter  how 
many  generations  removed  from  the  old 
sod,  gets  a  special  thrill  out  of  visiting  the 
country,"  Rosemary  laughed,  "and  I  think 
I  met  every  Clooney  living  in  Ireland.  You 
see,  one  newspaper  carried  the  somewhat 
erroneous  report  that  I  was  visiting  there 
to  search  for  long-lost  relatives,  and  it 
seemed  like  literally  hundreds  of  Clooneys 
presented  themselves  at  the  Huston  door. 
To  make  matters  even  more  confusing, 
there's  a  part  of  Ireland  called  Cloone,  its 
residents  are  called  'Cloonies,'  and  they 
all  showed  up,  too.  But  it  made  me  ter- 
ribly proud,  I  can  tell  you,  and  I  think 
great-grandfather  would  have  been  proud, 
too." 

And  that  about  sums  up  Rosemary 
Clooney  these  days.  Proud  of  being  Irish, 
proud  of  her  husband,  proud  of  her  son. 
The  fact  that  she's  also  a  top  star  defi- 
nitely takes  second-place  in  her  life,  and 
I  just  hope  that  when  next  I  see  her  she's 
well  on  the  way  to  that  family  of  five  she's 
hoping  and  planning  to  have. 


WITH  * 


cy^/  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  problem 


Tested  by  doctors...pmv§d  in  hospital  olinics 


4  fe 


1.  Antiseptic  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 

Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "liiedicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves. 

3.  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 


Mail  this  coupon  today 


NORFORmS 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by  doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


A  NORWICH  PRODUCT 


FREE  informaiive  Norforms  booklet 

Just  mail  this  cotipon  to:  Dept.  RT-510 
Norwich  Pharmacal  Company,  Norwich,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 
plain  envelope. 


Name_ 
Street_ 
City 


,mr) 


_Zone_ 


_State_ 


Daddy's  Wife— At  Home 


(Continued  from  page  31)  give  them  any  advice.    I  try  to  find  out  and  she,  too,  gave  encouragement  to  me. 

me  of  a  motion  picture  I  saw  recently."  what  they  want  to  do,  then  I  tell  them  "But  success  in  any  business  is  made  up 

Sherry    turned    a    quizzical    eye.     "Oh,  to  do  it.'  of    a    number    of    things.    It's    how    long 

really — which  one?"  "That's  the  way  the  family  was  raised —  you've  been  around  and,  sometimes,  who 

"  'The  Long  Gray  Line,' "  Jean  said,  with  with    enthusiasm.     I,    for    example,    can't  you    know,    and    what    you    know    about 

a    laugh.     "Don't    you    think    it's    a    little  remember  when   I  didn't  want  to  be   an  your  job  .   .  .  they  all  make  for  success, 

extreme,   Sherry?"  actress.     Somehow,  it  has  always  been  the  The  people  who  guided  me  early  in  my 

"Well  .  .  .  maybe  a  little.    But  almost  all  thing  for  me.     Though  there  was  one  day  career  knew  this — though  ours,  strangely 

the  girls  are  wearing  them  this  long  now."  in    my    life    when    my    dad    and    I    didn't  enough,    was    more    a    professional    rela- 

"So  they  wear  them  down  there,"  Jean  agree  on  acting — but  that  comes  later.  tionship    than    a    personal    one.    I    knew 

smiled,   "but   on   you   it   looks — well,   you  "When  I  was  five  years  old,  we  put  on  what  I  wanted  from  the  time  I  was  able 

know  .  .  ."    There  was  a  slight  pause  as  plays    in    the    cellar.     My    sister    did    the  to    say    'elocution    lesson.'      These    people 

Sherry  took  in  Jean's  reaction,  a  reaction  writing,  I  directed  and  produced.    We  all  advised  me  how  to  get  to  my  acting  goal 

she'd    come    to   respect.    Jean    continued:  acted,  including  my  brothers.    My  mother  the  quickest,  surest  way. 

"It's  just  not  the  thing   for  you.   Sherry,  was    ticket-taker.     We    charged    pins.    It  "And  it's  lucky  for  me  they  were  around, 

honey — at    least,    I    don't    think    so.    Even  was  a  good  way  for  Mother  to  keep  her  for  I  had  ideas  of  my  own.    This  brings 

though    others    are    wearing    trip-length  strawberry   pincushion  filled.  us  back  to   the  idea  of  finding  guidance 

skirts,  you  know  you  look  better  in  short-  "We  moved  to  Elkhart,  Indiana,  when  I  and    enthusiastic    encouragement    outside 

er  styles.    Don't  be  afraid  to  be  yourself,  was   twelve.     Our   home,   the   cellar   pro-  of  the  home — it's  one  way  for  a  child  to 

Sherry,  to  do  what's  right  for  you."  ductions,  the  many  kids  in  the  neighbor-  round  out  his  world  of  experience.    To- 

"Don't  be  afraid  to  be  yourself"  is  a  hood — and  my  grandmother  next  door —  day  there  are  all  sorts  of  clubs — YMCA 
philosophy  Jean  Hagen  has  lived  with  all  were  so  familiar,  my  heart  so  wrapped  and  YWCA,  4H's — and  many  other  places 
ever  since  she  was  a  girl  in  Elkhart,  In-  up  in  them,  that  I  didn't  want  to  leave.  where  young  people  can  get  guidance,  en- 
diana.  She  has  always  been  herself,  stood  My  grandmother  Natalborg  was  my  best  couragement,  be  put  on  the  right  track, 
by  her  own  beliefs.  In  Hollywood,  the  friend.  As  a  child,  when  I  learned  a  new  "I  wanted  to  act  and  was  ready  to  go 
"yes"  town,  Jean  frequently  has  swum  scene  or  a  new  poem,  she  encouraged  me  out  and  conquer  the  world  when  I  fin- 
upstream  against  the  tide  of  professional  with  pennies  and  her  home-baked  cook-  ished  high  school.  But,  fortunately  for 
opinion.  ies.    I  would  have  memorized  Shakespeare  me,   Mary  Thompson  took  me   aside   and 

Before   she   joined   The   Danny   Thomas  for  one  of  Grandmother's  cookies.  suggested  that  I  should  go  on  to  college. 

Show,  Jean  was  under  contract  to  M-G-M,  "While   growing  up,   I  think   everybody  I    hadn't    given    a    thought    to    college;    I 

where    her   ideas    were   highly    respected.  has  someone  older  to  look  up  to,  to  make  thought    I    didn't   need    it.    It    was    Mary 

In  the  picture,  "Singin'  in  the  Rain,"  pro-  a  hero  out  of.    That's  the  kind  of  friend  who    decided    me.    Of    course,    now    I'm 

ducer  Arthur  Freed  wanted  Jean  to  play  my  grandmother  was.    I  know  how  much  grateful  for  her  help. 

the  part  of  the  gravel-voiced,  Brooklynese  time  two  children  take,  and  I  wonder  how  "Miss   Thompson   also   got  me   my   first 

silent   star   as    broadly    as   possible.    Jean  my  mother  got  around  to  all  eight  of  us.  professional  job — when  I  was  a  freshman 

disagreed  with  the  producer,  saying,  "Peo-  There    just   isn't    time    enough    to    spread  at   Lake   Forest   College    in   Lake    Forest, 

pie   will   get  tired   of   the   grating   voice."  around    that    much    love     and    affection.  Illinois — on     a    radio     show     called     The 

Meetings  were  called  and  discussions  were  That's  why  Grandmother  Natalborg  meant  Brewster  Boy.    I  played  a  real  eccentric 

held  at  great  length.    The  clincher  came  so  much  to  me — she  sort  of  brought  me  up.  teenager.    I'm    afraid    the    producer    had 

when    Jean    attended    the    last    of    these  "Sherry   Jackson   and   I  have   a   similar  me  typed." 

meetings     and     gravel-voiced     her     way  relation.    I   think    children   go   through   a  After  a  year  at  Lake  Forest,  Jean  went 

through  the  entire  hour.    The  executives  period  when   they  want  someone  else   to  to   Northwestern   University   at  Evanston, 

went  away  with  their  hands  to  their  ears.  go  to,  in  addition  to  their  own  mother  and  about    100    miles    from    Elkhart,    for    two 

Jean  won  her  point — because  she  has  al-  father — I  know  I  did.    Sherry  came  to  me  years  and  a  summer.    She  wanted  to  get 

ways  known  what  was  right  for  her.  the    other   day,    for   example,    saying    she  out    in    a    hurry.     She    worked    her    way 

From  1949  to  1953,  Jean  played  a  varie-  wanted  to  go  steady  with  a  boy.    I  said,  through    school    with    the    Brewster   Boy 

ty     of     roles     at     M-G-M.    Comedy     in  'Don't   you   think    you    are    still   kind    of  role. 

"Adam's  Rib";  a  tramp  in  "Asphalt  Jun-  young  .  .  .'  and  we  kidded  around  the  "When  I  came  home  to  Elkhart,"  Jean 
gle";  a  comedy-musical  character  in  subject  for  a  few  minutes,  the  way  girls  recalls,  "I  told  my  dad  I  was  leaving  for 
"Singin'  in  the  Rain."  Professional  peo-  will.  She  finally  agreed  by  saying,  'Well  New  York  to  crash  Broadway.  My  par- 
pie  in  the  industry  respected  her  talent  .  .  .  maybe  I  am  too  young — but  he's  so  ents  had  been  of  the  opinion  that  my 
and  versatility.  When  she  was  offered  cute!'  dramatic  training  was  preparing  me  to 
the  role  of  Margaret  in  The  Danny  Thom-  "I  remember  when  I  was  in  high  school,  be  a  teacher.  When  I  said,  'Broadway,' 
as  Show,  some  of  these  same  professionals  in  Elkhart,  I  had  several  older  tutors,  so  they  couldn't  have  been  more  surprised, 
were  aghast  that  she  even  thought  of  ac-  to  speak,  whom  I  thought  a  great  deal  of  My  dad  said,  'Oh,  no,  you're  not!  You're 
cepting  the  part:  "But,  Jean,  you're  so  and  who  helped  me  sind  encouraged  me  staying  to  get  your  teaching  credentials!' 
versatile.  Why  stereotype  yourself  as  a  through  my  teens.  My  dramatics  teacher  "I'd  always  had  arguments  with  my 
housewife?"  in  high  school  was  the  first.  She  en-  father — but  we  both  enjoyed  them.  Be- 
However,  Jean  and  her  husband,  Tom  couraged  me  to  do  more  dramatic  work,  sides,  it  was  one  way  to  get  attention. 
Seidel,  talked  it  over.  They  decided  that  so  I  joined  the  local  little-theater  group.  Well,  of  course,  he  didn't  know  how  bad- 
being  seen  once  a  week  on  TV  would  do  The  director  there  was  Mary  Thompson  ly  I  wanted  to  go  to  Broadway.  When  he 
more  for  her  career  than  three  years  in  and  she  encouraged  me,  so  I  took  private  found  out  what  it  was  I  really  wanted  to 
the  movies.  There  was  another  advan-  lessons  from  a  professional,  June  Rohleder,  do,  according  to  his  theory  of  not  giving 
tage:  On  TV  Jean  would  be  playing  her  advice,  he  encouraged  me  to  go  ahead." 
own  favorite  real-life  role — that  of  a  wife  _  Jean  loved  New  York  the  minute  she 
(to  Tom  Seidel)  and  mother  (to  her  own  ^  ^^^^  saw  it.  She  had  very  little  money, 
children,  Chris,  five,  and  Aric,  three).  ^9fH    /tfHI^^  moved  into  a  single  room  with  her  friend, 

TV-wise,  doing  what  she  thinks  is  right  Wi^^^  J^W^  "'°'"  '*®*"'  Martin  &  actress  Pat  Neal,  and  started  looking  for 
for  her  has  paid  off  for  Jean  Hagen.  The  3[^\^'  \  d^  ^  T  j  i  •  -i-u  ■  ^  1°^-  J^^n  says,  "This  was  when  apart- 
first  year  The  Danny  Thomas  Show,  \[\^  !  l^lf  i-ewis  in  their  merits  were  very  difficult  to  get— we 
"Make  Room  for  Daddy,"  was  seen,  it  v^f  V/\'  ^'^^^  °"  child-killing  couldn't  have  afforded  one,  anyhow.  Our 
was  given  a  Sylvania  award — and  "Dad-  \_/  room  had  no  bath.  We  had  to  walk  two 
dy"  Danny  has  twice  won  the  coveted  AMI  I  £#■■■■  AD  nVCTDADUV  blocks  every  morning  to  a  friend's  house 
Academy  of  Television  Arts  and  Science's  WIUaVUlAK   l#l9lKWI*nY  to  bathe! 

Emmy.    Jean  herself  has  been  twice  no-  Contact  your  local  MDAA                    //^  "The  first  job   I  had  was   selling   ciga- 

minated    for    the    award.  pi      +                 -i  xl-      i-                      tp^^  rettes    in   a   night   club.     I   took   this    be- 

The  philosophy,  "Don't  be  afraid  to  be  ^^°P^^'  °'  mail  tnis  sup                   \^^  ^^^^^  j  wanted  my  days  free  to  look  for 

yourself,"    Jean    learned    at    her    father's  +°   Muscular   Dystrophy                       MwA  an    acting    job.    Later,    I    ushered    at    the 

knee.     She   says,    "My   father,    C.    M.    Ver  Assns.  of  America,   Inc.,                           ^  Booth    Theater,    working    nights    for    the 

Hagen,    was    a    square-jawed    Dutchman  39  Broadway,  N.  Y.  6,  N.  Y.                  <3)  same  reason.    And  that  is  where  I  got  my 

who  encouraged  us  to  speak  out,  to  speak        ' 1 - first  stage  work." 

our  minds.     He  encouraged  us  to  be  our-  jend  me  further  information  about  joining  Dean  and  Jerry  ,   Jfan  was  caught  in  a  Conversation  at  a 

selves,  to  do  what  we  thought  was  right  m  the  fight  on  Muscular  Dystrophy  backstage    party    one    evenmg    with    the 

T    for  us.    He  had   a  droll  sense   of  humor.  play's    authors,    Ben    Hecht    and    Charles 

V    He  had  to  have  a  sense  of  humor,  with  name MacArthur.    It    was    widely    known    that 

R    eight  children!     I  remember  hearing  one  the  play  was  not  going  well.     When  the 

of  his  friends — who  had  kids  of  his  own —  address writers  asked  Jean  what  she  thought  of  it, 

asking,  'What  kind  of  advice  do  you  give  she  said — being  true  to  herself — "I  don't 

your   children? '    My  father   said,   'I  don't  city state .  think  it's  very  good.     Maybe  it  needs  some 

86 


more  writing  .  .  ."  The  authors  were  a 
bit  surprised  at  this  boldness,  but  it  made 
the  desired  impression.  For  a  while,  Jean 
thought  her  brash  remark  had  cost  her 
any  chance  of  ever  being  in  a  Hecht- 
MacArthur  play.  But  the  writers  did  of- 
fer her  a  replacement  job  when  Louis 
Calhern's  wife  took  sick.  Then,  just  as 
Jean's  goal  seemed  to  be  won,  Jean  came 
down  with  appendicitis. 

Her  stage  career  was  laimched  in  earn- 
est, however,  when  she  came  back  from 
the  hospital  and  Hecht  and  MacArthur 
offered  her  a  role  in  "Swan  Song" — the 
show  she'd  criticized.  Her  big  break  came 
the  following  year,  in  Lillian  Hellman's 
"Another  Part  of  the  Forest."  From  that, 
she  went  into  "The  Traitor,"  and  then 
"Born  Yesterday." 

Jean  met  her  husband,  Tom  Seidel, 
shortly  after  beginning  rehearsals  on  "An- 
other Part  of  the  Forest."  "We  met  in  the 
lobby  of  the  Booth  Theater,"  Jean  recalls. 
"We  were  introduced  by  my  friend  Pat 
Neal.  I  was  going  with  someone  else  at 
the  time,  but  don't  misunderstand  me — 
Tom  made  an  impression.  I  didn't  forget 
him.  Three  months  later,  when  he  called 
for  a  date,  I  said,  'Yes.'  We  took  a  drive 
in   the   country. 

"Tom  has  always  been  interested  in  a 
thousand  things — that  was  one  part  of  his 
personality  that  attracted  me — and  pho- 
tography happened  to  be  one  of  his  many 
interests.  He  took  a  motion  picture  cam- 
era along  on  the  trip  and  we  took  pic- 
tures  of  our  day.  We  dig  them  out  and 
run  them  every  anniversary.  Tom  hasn't 
let  me  forget  our  first  date! 

W  e  were  married  two  months  later.  I 
I  was  doing  'Dear  Ruth,'  in  summer  stock 
in  Connecticut,  when  I  slipped  and  broke 
my  leg.  Tom  said  it  was  silly  to  waste 
six  weeks  hobbling  around  in  a  plaster 
cast.  He  suggested  we  turn  our  time  to 
better  advantage — and  proposed  marriage. 
We  were  married  July  3,  1947. 

"Our  honeymoon  was  an  unforgettable 
affair.  We  traveled  to  the  Thousand  Is- 
lands near  Kanoqua,  Canada.  Tom  and  I 
both  love  to  fish,  and  this  was  an  ideal 
spot.  But  it  also  was  most  miserable. 
It  rained  all  the  time — and  me  with  a 
plaster  cast  on  my  leg!  The  rain  made  it 
soggy,  and  the  mosquitoes  were  deter- 
mined we'd  get  no  rest.  It  was  undoubt- 
edly the  most  miserable  honeymoon  any- 
one could  ever  spend." 

Shortly  after  her  honejmioon,  Jean 
signed  what  she  thought  was  a  one-picture 
deal  with  M-G-M.  "But  I  didn't  read  the 
small  print!"  she  laughs.  With  a  couple 
of  years  of  pictures  and  contracts  with 
options  ahead  of  her,  Jean  settled  down 
in  Hollywood,  moving  in  with  her  old 
friend,  Pat  Neal,  and  waited  for  Tom  to 
settle  affairs  in  New  York  and  join  her. 

Having  always  done  what  she  has 
thought  best  for  her,  Jean  picked  the 
parts  she  felt  best  qualified  for  at  M-G-M 
— "Asphalt  Jungle,"  for  example — and  has 
always  stuck  to  her  guns  when  she  felt 
her  acting  or  professional  integrity  was 
at  stake,  as  in  her  meeting  with  the  ex- 
ecutives about  her  characterization  in 
"Singin'  in  the  Rain". 

It  was  for  this  role  as  the  silent-screen 
star  that  Jean  won  her  Oscar  nomination. 
So,  with  this  success,  her  philosophy  of 
doing  what  she  thought  was  right  for  her 
has  payed  off  professionally.  But  Jean 
was  not  satisfied  with  this  apparent  suc- 
cess: "It  wasn't  that  I  didn't  have  work," 
she  says,  "because  there  was  always  some- 
thing to  do.  But  people  never  recognized 
me!  No  one  knew  I  was  in  pictures! 
When  I  was  asked,  'Do  you  work?'  and  I 
said,  'Yes,  I'm  an  actress,'  people  replied, 
'Oh,  really.  Have  we  seen  any  of  your 
pictxires?'    If  I  answered,   'Singin'   in  the 


STOP  Pm  IHSTMTiy 

OOMBAT  INFECTION 
PROMOTE  HEALING 


WITH  SOOTHING 


bamplio-Pfien/aue 


USE  IT  FOR  ^ 

FEVER  BUSTERS 

COLD  SORES,  GUM  BOILS 

Not  only 'do  fever  blisters  heal  faster,  but  the  same 
thing  happens  when  Campho-Phenique  is  used  on 
cold  sores,  gum  boils.  Wonderfully  soothing  too, 
for  minor  bvims,  poison  ivy,  itching  of  insect  bites. 
And  Campho-Phenique  is  a  highly  effective,  pain- 
reheving  antiseptic  for  minor  cuts  and  scratches 
from  paring  knives,  can  openers,  tin  cans,  etc. 
Used  on  pimples,  Campho-Phenique  helps  prevent 
their  spread  and  re-infection. 


^?7«rr^f*^^j™ 


'^^^f^^sj^^PWT?*^' 


money 


can  be  yours  for  help- 
ing us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions. 

Write  for  FREE  information.  No  obligation. 

TV  Radio  Mirror.  205  East  42  St..  N.Y.  17,  N.Y. 


Heed  mote  money? 


Show' 


Here's  how  lo  earn  money  last !  ^-iiolCTMAS 

Simply  show  Irierds  brand  new  CCHR'^'  , 

SLIM-SHAPED  Chrislmas  Cards.    _  -  -  -^ 

Also  personal  cards,  noles  and  wrappings,  gilts  -over  ] 
items.  They  sell  on  sight... you  make  big  prohls.  Send  no 
money-but  WRITE  TODAY  lor  assortments  on  approval/ 
and  tet  FREE  pen  with  key  chain  lor  prompt  action.' 
CHAS.  C.  SCHWER  CO.,  254  Elm  St.,  Westfield,  Mass. 


CAROS^ 


Why  be  blue 
when  you  can 

/ 


If  monthly  distress— pain, 
cramps,  nervous  tension 
and  headache  —  get  you 
down,  be  smart  and  try 


CHI-CHES-TERS 


If  you  don't  get  safe,  quick,  long-lasting  relief  we 
will  refund  your  money.  Fair  enough?  Get  Chi- 
Ches-Ters  and  compare  this  medically  proven,  pre- 
scription-like "wonder"  formula  with  any  other 
product  you  have  used.  In  doctors'  tests  9  out  of 
10  women  got  relief— often  with  the  first  dose.  Why 
not  you?  Feel  gay  every  day  with  Chi-Ches-Ters. 
Purse  Pak  50«;;  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and  $2.25. 
If  your  druggist  hasn't  any,  ask  him  to  get  some 
for  you— or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 

FREE — Illustrated  booklet  of  intimate  facts 
every  woman  should  know.  Mailed  in  plain 
wrapper.  Write  today!  Chichester  Chemical 
Company,  Dept.   22-S,    Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 


TJociors  recnmrnt' 

'"'SGCRGT 

or  A  MILLION 


y£ 


^aytt/' 


SYRINGE  FOR  WOMEN 


$050    ,  ,       ^ 

FREE  BOOKLET:  MARVa  Cc    j  i )   ^       asi  Sf ,  Now  Hav«n.  Conn. 


^r^iMZB 


Shipped 
Direct 

from  Our 
MUl 


on  your  Hew 


aveZOtfoAQJo 


'ome 

You  con  save  several  thousands  dollars  when  you  build 
a  Liberty  Home!  Buy  direct  from  our  mill  at  our  low,  factory, 
freight-paid  price.  We  ship  you  the  lumber  cut-to-flt,  ready 
to  erect.  Doors,  windov^'S,  roofing,  paint,  glass,  hardware, 
noils,  etc.,  all  included  in  the  price.  Plans  furnished — also 
complete  building  instruclions.  No  wonder  our  customers 
write  that  we  saved  them  30%  to  40%.  Easy  terms — monthly 
payments.  Architecturolly  approved  construction.  INot  pre- 
fabricoted.) 

Handsome  Big  CATALOGUE 
Pictures     wonderful     homes    in    colors    at 
money-saving  prices.  Designs  to  suit  every- 
one. Send  25c  for  cotalogue  today. 

LEWIS  MANUFACTURING  CO. 

4150  Lafayette  Ave.  Bay  City,   Mich. 


BIG  BODK 

House  Plans 

*«.  Colors 


Clear  up  your 

pimples  FA5T,,m 

leave  no  stars 

Don't  handle,  tug  or  pick  those 
"hickiesl"  Pimples,  blackheads 
easily  infect  .  .  .  leave  lifetime 
scars.  Clear  up  those  pimples  and 
blackheads — oh  so  gently,  safely 
and  cover  them  while  you're 
clearing  them)  with  Pompeian 
Milk  Cream  —  pink  magic  proved 
in  the  laboratory  to  possess  a 
greater  "zone  of  inhibition"  than 
all  the  leading  medications  tested  I 
It's  the  milk — chemists  say — that 
makes  PC  11 — the  hexachloro- 
phene — so  far  more  effective  in 
starving  skin  bacteria  that  cloud 
your  complexion. 

ritr  IT. .  PROVt  IT. .  TRIAl  TUBE  10c 

Send  10c  for  a  trial  tube.  Watch 
your  skin  grow  healthier  again. 
Pompeian  Corp.,  Balto.  24,  Md., 
Dept.  P-10.  Or  get  Pompeian 
Milk  Cream  from 
your  druggist  tonight. 


POMPEIAN 


MILK  CREAM 


Rain,'  they  said,  'Oh,  we  don't  remember 
you  in  that.'  And,  if  I  said  'Asphalt  Jun- 
gle,' they  said,  'Well,  now  .  .  .  we  don't 
remember  you  in  that,  either — what  part 
did  you  say  you  played?'  My  answer  to 
that  was:    'I  wasn't  Marilyn  Monroe!' " 

Because  of  those  reactions  Jean  felt 
something  was  wrong  with  her  career, 
though  she  didn't  know  what.  One  night, 
she  and  Tom — then  an  agent,  now  a  build- 
ing contractor — sat  down  to  discuss  her 
career.  They  decided  that  she  could  be 
seen  by  more  people  in  one  week  on  TV 
than  in  a  year  on  the  screen. 

When  Jean  and  Tom  saw  the  first 
Danny  Thomas  script,  they  felt  it  would 
be  right  for  her.  If  realistic  acting  were 
any  criterion,  Jean  knew  she  would  never 
better  understand  a  part  than  this  one — 
she  would,  after  all,  simply  be  playing 
herself. 

When,  after  the  first  five  weeks  on  the 
air,  the  show  won  the  Sylvania  Award, 
Jean  knew  that  her  "Don't  be  afraid  to  be 
yourself"  philosophy  had  again  paid  off. 
About  the  Emmy,  Jean  says,  "I  couldn't 
have  been  more  thrilled  about  anything — 
especially  since  it  was  really  unexpected. 
The  only  thing  is  that  you  work  so  hard, 
and  you  know  everybody  else  in  TV 
works  so  hard,  you  sometimes  feel  you 
should  get  a  medal  for  just  being  on." 

rJy  the  second  month  the  show  was  on 
the  air,  Jean  knew  her  choice  of  career 
change  had  been  a  success.  "Nobody  rec- 
ognized me  when  I  was  in  the  movies," 
she  says,  "but  the  attitude  toward  people 
in  television  is  entirely  different.  It's  a 
neighborly  attitude.  And  I  find  I  enjoy 
it.  Besides,  it  comes  in  handy.  If  I'm 
shopping  someplace  and  have  left  my 
checkbook  at  home — well,  it  really  doesn't 
matter.  The  manager  will  say,  'Oh,  for 
heaven's  sake,  that's  perfectly  all  right, 
don't  think  a  thing  of  it.  Anytime  you 
want  to  pay  is  okay!' " 

The  enjoyment  that  Jean  now  gets  from 
being  recognized  by  her  fans  is  carried 
over  into  the  production  of  the  show. 
"Danny  Thomas,"  says  Jean,  "is  a  natural- 
ly funny  man.  It's  a  great  experience 
working  with  him.  One  time,  Danny  was 
in  the  middle  of  a  tearful  scene,  when 
suddenly  Rusty  Hamer  sneezed.  'God 
bless  you!'  said  Danny  and  went  right  on. 
It  didn't  faze  him — in  fact,  it  added  to  the 
scene. 

"Working  on  'Make  Room  for  Daddy' 
is  very  much  like  a  live  show.  Or,  rather, 
it's  very  much  like  a  new  Broadway  open- 
ing night  every  week!  For  example,  we 
play  a  great  deal  off  the  audience's  reac- 
tion. Danny  will  say,  'I'll  read  this  line 
and,  if  I  don't  get  a  laugh,  don't  say  any- 
thing, because  I'll  ad-lib  something  else.' 
Therefore,  there  is  a  great  deal  of  tension, 
but  it's  a  wonderful  acting  challenge." 

Jean  also  feels  that  her  television  sched- 
ule is  better  than  the  motion  picture 
schedule.  "I  work  four  days  and  then  I 
have  three  days  off.  Besides  this,  on  Mon- 
day and  Tuesday,  I  get  home  in  time  to 
tuck  the  children  in  and  read  them  a 
story — it's  'Davy  Crockett'  now,  but  last 
month   it   was   'Cinderella.' 

"They  are  really  too  young  to  stay  up 
and  watch  the  show,  and  I  don't  want  to 
confuse  them.  Children  have  a  hard  time 
telling  the  difference  between  play  acting 
and  real  life — and,  if  they  were  to  see  me 
on  TV  as  Dcinny's  wife,  they  might  be 
confused  about  me  and  Daddy. 

"Though  I  think  that  Chris  is  old  enough 
now  to  tell  the  difference.  She  came  in 
last  week,  saying,  'I  saw  a  show  last  night 
and  it  had  a  ghost  on  it.  I  was  very 
scared — but  I  know  something  .  .  .' 

"  'What  do  you  know?'  I  asked. 

"  'I  know  that,  after  the  show,  the  ghost 
goes  home  and  watches  himself,  just  like 


you  do!'    So  Chris,  at  least,  is  beginning 
to  understand  the  whole  thing." 

When  Jean  works  on  her  script  at  home, 
hubby  Tom  Seidel  cues  her  on  her  lines — 
when  he  isn't  building  in  and  around  the 
house,  that  is.  "Hammer  and  caw,"  says 
Jean,  "are  a  vice  with  Tom.  If  I  don't 
watch  him,  he'll  fill  the  Benedict  Canyon 
with  houses.  We'd  no  sooner  moved  into 
our  present  home  than  he  built  a  barn, 
added  a  car -port,  and  turned  the  garage 
into  a  playroom  for  the  kids. 

"We  are  both  great  outdoor  people.  In 
fact,  Tom  says  I'm  made  for  swimming 
pools.  He  always  threatened  to  buy  a  lot, 
build  a  pool  and  a  bathhouse,  and  live  in 
the  bathhouse  until  we  built  our  own 
home.    I  was  perfectly  willing." 

Instead,  the  Seidels  moved  into  their 
present  Brentwood  home  about  five  years 
ago,  when  Jean  found  she  was  carrying 
Chris — bom  August  26,  1950,  and  named 
Patricia  Christine  after  Jean's  good  friend, 
Pat  Neal.  Aric  Philip,  now  three,  was 
born  August  19,  1952.  The  children  oc- 
cupy a  bright  sunny  room.  But,  as  they 
get  older,  Tom  is  already  warming  up  his  i 
tools  to  make  an  addition  for  their  sepa- 
rate  quarters.  I 

When  Jean  and  Tom  first  moved  into 
their  home,  it  was  twins — a  small  house 
with  a  summer  guest  house,  both  on  one 
lot.  Tom  joined  them  together  with  a 
few  deft  blows,  like  an  expert  Justice  of 
the  Peace  tying  the  wedding  knot. 

The  rambling  home,  now  laid  out  in  a 
lazy  U  is  a  three-dimensional  color  picture 
inside  and  out,  of  the  Jean  Hagen  per- 
sonality. Easygoing  in  its  sprawling  spa- 
ciousness, its  every  nook  and  corner  is  a 
reflection  of  some  facet  of  Jean's  varied 
personality.  There's  gaiety  written  all 
over  the  master  bedroom's  red  and  white 


GiVE— 

Strihe  bach 


at  CANCER 


print  wallpaper;  elegance  in  the  Queen 
Anne  spread;  warmth  in  the  color  tones 
of  their  Early  American  decor;  friendli- 
ness in  the  glow  of  their  stained  wood 
walls;  nostalgia  in  the  favorite  antique — 
her  grandmother's  delftware;  and  Jean's 
success  has  left  her  as  unassuming  as  the 
old-fashioned  red  painted  flatiron  she 
uses  as  a  doorstop.  Like  the  house,  Jean 
is  a  thoroughly  comfortable  person  to  be 
with. 

The  front  door  is  another  feature  of  the 
house  which  reflects  a  facet  of  Jean's  per- 
sonality— the  front  door  was  once  the  back 
door.  Prior  to  its  present  vice- versa  posi- 
tion, guests  had  to  tramp  through  a  can- 
yon acre  of  land  and  up  a  thousand  steps. 
Jean  felt  that  this  was  fine — if  you  wanted 
to  live  like  a  hermit.  But,  for  functional 
purposes,  some  other  arrangement  had  to 
be  found.  For  practical  Jean  Hagen,  the 
obvious  thing  to  do  was  to  switch  the 
front  and  back  doors.  Tom  Seidel's  build- 
ing genius  did  it.  The  switch  saves  the 
mailman  a  daily  1000-step  hike.  He 
thinks  Jean  is  a  doll. 

The  sign  on  the  redwood  picket  fence 
that  surrounds  their  pool  and  front  yard 
gives  the  final  touch  to  the  three-dimen- 
sional picture  of  Jean  Hagen.  The  sign 
is  a  subtle  clue  that  reminds  us  of  Jean's 
philosophy,  "Don't  be  afraid  to  be  your- 
self— to  do  what  is  right  for  you."  In 
large  capital  letters,  the  sign  reads  "SEI- 
DEL". In  small  letters  below — set  off  in 
brackets  somewhat  as  an  afterthought— 
"  (Hagen) ." 

It's  clear  that  Mrs.  Tom  Seidel  (nee 
Jean  Hagen)  knows  what  is  right  for  her. 
Jean  knows  that  playing  the  part  of  lov- 
ing wife  and  mother  is  the  best  role  of  all. 


The  Gift  of  Happiness 

(Continued  from  page  58) 
was  particularly  gratifying  to  a  member 
of  the  NBC  press  department  who  had 
had  previous  encounters  with  this  hate- 
hunting  gentleman.  "This  time  he  was 
stjTnied,"  she  reports.  "He  phoned  a  few 
weeks  later  to  say  that  the  storj'  was  off. 
No  'conflict,'  in  it — he  couldn't  find  any- 
one with  a  grudge.  The  more  people  he 
questioned,  the  more  he  heard  what  we 
had  already  told  him — that  Arlene  has 
the  same  warmth  off  stage  that  she  has 
on.  She  also  has  a  sense  of  humor.  And 
she  never  gets  temperamental.  Because 
she  herself  is  a  happy  woman,  she  has  a 
gift  for  making  others  happy,  too." 

Since  this  contagious  quality  of  happi- 
ness reaches  viewers  via  three  totally  dif- 
ferent television  shows  on  three  net- 
works—ABC's Soldier  Parade,  CBS's 
U'hat's  My  Line?  and  NBC's  Home — it  has 
won  Arlene  admirers  in  a  wide  assortment 
of  places. 

Arlene  is  especially  intrigued  with  one 
aggregation.  "I'll  bet  I'm  the  only  per- 
former on  television  who  has  a  cat,  dog 
and  bird  fan  club,"  she  says.  "It  started," 
she  explains,  "when  a  dog  in  Rochester 
sent  me  such  a  cute  letter  that  I  read  it 
on  Home.  Now  I  get  letters  signed  by  all 
kinds  of  pets.  I'm  disappointed,  though. 
I  haven't   yet   heard   from    a    caterpillar." 

The  caterpillar  contingent  can  scarcely 
be  missed,  for  the  human  beings  who  re- 
gard Arlene  with  affection  turn  up  in 
many  varied  places. 

Walk  along  New  York's  Forty-sixth 
Street,  for  instance,  through  the  jewelry 
district  where  fortunes  in  gems  are  often 
traded  right  out  on  the  curb,  and  you 
may  possibly  overhear  a  wholesaler  tell  a 
manufacturer,  "Make  me  up  an  order  of 
hearts.     Like   Arlene   Francis  wears." 

These  hard-headed  businessmen  have 
good  reason  to  like  Arlene,  for  it  is  prob- 
able that  she  inadvertently  has  sold  more 
diamonds  for  them  than  any  actress  since 
Lillian  Russelll  It  all  happened  because 
Arlene,  who  calls  herself  "incurably  senti- 
mental," always  wears  the  heart-shaped 
locket,  outhned  in  diamonds,  which  her 
husband,  Martin  Gabel,  gave  her  on  the 
first  anniversciry  of  their  marriage.  Frank- 
ly copied  in  precious  diamonds,  pearls  or 
rubies — and  also  in  lowly  rhinestones — it 
is  in  continuous  demand  both  in  luxury 
shops  and  dime  stores.  The  heart  lockets 
have  become  as  popular  with  grown-up 
girls  as  Davy  Crockett  trinkets  are  with 
the  small  fry. 

A  group  which  might,  with  a  slight 
stretch  of  the  imagination,  be  designated 
as  the  occupational  descendants  of  Davy 
himself  chose  a  most  extravagant  way  to 
express  their  liking.  Inviting  Arlene  to 
attend  their  national  convention,  each 
member  of  the  Fur  Trappers  of  America 
brought  the  prize  mink  pelt  of  his  season's 
catch  as  a  gift  to  her.  These,  made  up 
into  a  magnificent  coat,  have  a  conserva- 
tive value  of  §25,000. 

The  armed  forces  have  regarded  Arlene 
as  their  special  sweetheart  ever  since  she 
made  her  first  USO  tour  during  World 
War  n.  Lonely  GIs  gave  her  many  af- 
fectionate, informal  titles.  The  United 
States  Army  made  it  official  by  naming 
her  an  honorary  sergeant,  thus  showing 
appreciation  for  both  her  front-line  enter- 
tainment and  the  encouragement  she  has 
subsequently  given  talented  servicemen 
and  women  on  her  television  shows. 

But,  of  aU  the  honors  and  titles  which 
have  come  her  way,  the  ones  Arlene  her- 
self most  deeply  cherishes  are  those  which 
she    holds    in    common    with    her    women 
,   viewers:    Daughter,  Wife,   Mother. 
k      The  love  which  exists  between  Arlene 


A/en/  Hospit^/  Proof 


Gentle  EX-LAX  HELPS 
you  toward  YOUR 
NORMAL  REGULARITY! 


NEW  SCIENTIFIC  TESTS  in  one 

of  the  world's  largest  hospitals 
prove  it  again!  The  regulat- 
ing ingredient  found  only  in 
a  laxative  like  Ex-Lax  helps, 
and  continues  to  help  the 
next  day,  toward  your  normal 
regularity!  No  habit  forming 
routine  ever  recommenied. 

Buy  The  New 

65^  Economy  Size  and 

Save  up  to  37;. 

Also  in  12<}  and  30<}  sizes. 


TO^^ 


Wtvxtf  ' 


:COH^-(VV^-^^°*^ 


AT  NIGHT,  take  pleas- 
ant-tasting Ex-Lax  for 
constipation.  Its  gentle 
effective  action  won't 
disturb  sleep. 


NEXT  MORNING,  enjoy 
the  closest  thing  to  nat- 
ural action.  No  upset. 
No  discomfort  No  em- 
barrassing urgency. 


For 


^Grown-^ 


THE  FOLLOWING  DAY,  Ex-Lax  continues  to  help 
you  toward  your  normal  regularity.  You  seldom, 
if  ever,  have  to  repeat  Ex-Lax  the  next  night! 


MORE    PEOPLE    USE    EX-LAX    THAN    ANY    OTHER    LAXATIVE 


We  need  part  time  subscription  agents  urgently.  We'll  pay  the  highest  commissions,  when 
you  help  us  take  orders  for  America's  most  popular  magazines.  It's  easy.  No  experience 
necessary.  We  supply  everything  you  need  FREE.  This  is  your  big  chance  to  earn  $40,  $50, 
$60  regularly,  in  spare  time.  Rush  your  name  and  address  today,  for  FREE  money-making 
information  to:  Macfadden  Publications,  205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


Any 

Photo 

Copied 


Up  To  A  S10  PHOTO  STUDIO  VALUE  Only  SI 


BILLFOLD 
PHOTOS 


50  for  only  $2 


Sent  on 
Approval 

(Send  No 
Money) 


Double-Weight,  Silk  Finish,  Portrait 
Paper.  Each  (2V2X3V2  inch)  PHOTO 
is  beautifully  DECKLE  EDGED. 

irST  to  get  acquainted  ive  will  make  you  these  NEW  artistic.  BILLFOLD  PHOTOGRAPHS  that  are  the  rage 
J  for  exchanging  with  school  mates,  as  gifts  and  enclosures  with  greeting  cards  or  in  correspondence.  SEXD  >.0 
MONET  just  enclose  your  favorite  snapshot  or  any  size  photo  for  i(t  or  50  BILLFOLD  (Wallet I  SIZE  PHOTOS 
(one  pose)  suitable  for  framing  and  keepsakes.  Used  by  thousands  of  students,  teachers,  job  seekers,  parents, 
movie  stars  and  others  Original  returned  with  your  order.  Pay  postman  on  arrival  plus  a  few  cents  for  our  C.O.D. 
and  postage  or  enclose  the  money  and  we  prepay.  3-day  service.  Portrait  studio  quality  and  satisfaction  guaranteed. 
Please   send  within   15  days  to  ^^  e» 

MOVYLAND       STUDIOS    Oept.  97,  211  W.  7thSt.,  DESM0INES2,  IOWA 


Why  Become  An 

OLD  WOMAN 

Before  Your  Time  ? 

Few  women,  especially  those  who  have  just 
had  their  first  child,  realize  the  devastating 
eflfect  rectal  trouble  can  have  on  nerves, 
vitality,  general  health.  Piles,  fissures,  asso- 
ciated disorders  often  begin  with  the  birth 
of  the  very  first  child.  Standing  on  your 
feet  too  long  and  other  strains  may  make 
the  condition  worse.  But — there  is  no  need 
to  let  this  "secret  pain"  rob  you  of  youth 
and  attraaiveness.  Find  out  how  proper 
treatment  now  may  help  you  avoid  this 
cause  of  premature  aging — ^wnte,  today  for 
130-page  FREE  BOOK  to  McCLEARY 
CLINIC  and  HOSPITAL,  Dept.  1023,  Ex- 
celsior Springs  1,  Mo. 


'\ 


LOTION  SHAMPOO  SPECIALLY 

'"BLONDES; 


BRINGS  OUT 

SAFELY  IN 
11  MINUTES! 

Want  to  keep  your  hair  from 
getting  dark  and  faded?  Wont  to  restore  its  life  ond  lustre— see 
it  shades  lighter,  brighter,  shinier— ot  once!  Then  use  BLONDEX, 
the  new  "lotion"  shampoo  mode  specially  for  blondes.  Contains 
ANDIUM— shines  and  lightens  as  it  shampoos.  In  just  1 1  minutes. 
its  rich,  billowy  lather  rinses  away  dingy  film  that  makes  hair  dork 
ond  dull,  uncovers  sparkling  highlights  and  lustre.  Sofe  f^r  children 
Get  BLONDEX  today!  At  10«,  drug  and  departire 


89 


90 


Elsa 
Maxwell's 

Etiquette 

Book 

AT  LAST— an  etiquette  book  that  treats 
this  subject  from  a  modern-day  view- 
point. In  this  book  the  famous  hostess  to 
world  celebrities  writes  helpfully  about 
the  correct  thing.  The  bride-to-be,  as 
well  as  the  father  of  the  bride,  will  find 
the  exact  information  they  want  in  the 
fresh  approach  of  this  splendid  book. 
Here  in  clear,  straightforward  language, 
are  the  answers  to  all  youi  everyday  eti- 
quette problems.  Here  you  find  important 
suggestions  on  good  manners  in  restau- 
rants— in  church — ^in  the  theatre — on  the 
street — and  when  you  travel. 

Only  $1.00 

The  price  of  this  book  that  puts  you  at 
ease  no  matter  where  you  are — and  opens 
the  door  to  achievement  and  success — 
costs  only  $1.00  and  we  pay  the  postage! 
Take  advantage  of  this  truly  remarkable 
bargain.  Mail  coupon  below  for  your 
book— TODAY. 

Mail  Coupon  Today 


1  BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE.  INC.Dept.  WG-1055  S 
:  205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y.  ; 

J  Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  of  ELSA  MAX-  S 

•  WELL'S    ETIQUETTE    BOOK.    I    enclose  • 
;  $1.00.  • 

•  • 

S  NAME • 

•  Please  Print  T 

2  STREET ; 

•  • 

•  CITY STATE • 

SemKS'fnseefBffes! 

Neglected  bites  from  non-poisonous 
insects  may  cause  dangerous  infec- 
tion. OIL-0-SOL  soothes,  comforts, 
jyiQ  J  jQ'J       cools,  eases  pain. 

OIL*0*SOL  oV„;°o?fT 

EAT  ANYTHING 
WITH  FALSE  TEETH 

If  you  have  trouble  with  plates  that 
slip,  rock  and  cause  sore  gums — ;try 
Brimms  Plasti-Liner.  One  applica- 
tion makes  plates  fit  snugly  without  | 
powder  or  paste,  because  Brimms 
Plasti-Liner  hardens  permanently  to 
your  plate.  It  relines  and  refits  loose 
plates  in  a  way  no  powder  or  paste  can  do.  No  need 
to  pass  up  your  fevorite  foods.  With  plates  held 
firmly  by  Plasti-Liner,  YOO  CAN  EAT  ANYTHING! 
Simply  lay  soft  strip  of  Plasti-Liner  on  troublesome 
upper  or  lower.  Bite  and  it  molds  perfectly.  TLasy 
to  use,  tasteless,  odorless,  harmless  to  you  and  your 
plates.  Removable  as  directed.  Money  back  if  not 
completely  satisfied.  Special  Bonus  Offer!  Send 
only  100 — we  send  you  35^  package  of  Tri-Dent 
Denture  Cleaner!  Hurry,  offer  expires  Nov.  30, 
1955.Plasti-LinerInc.,  Buffalo  11, N.Y.—Dept.  52 


BRIMMS   PLASTI-LINER 

THE  PERMANENT  DENTURE  RELINER 


and  her  parents,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Aram 
Kazanjian,  is  so  strong  that  it  has  carried 
the  three  of  them  safely  through  the  kind 
of  conflict  which  has  wrecked  many  a 
family's  ties.  It  started  during  her  child- 
hood, Arlene  explains,  because,  "Both  my 
father  and  my  mother  wanted  the  best  of 
everything  for  me — unfortunately,  our 
views  of  what  was  best  were  in  complete 
disagreement." 

Arlene's  heart's  desire,  even  as  a  small 
girl,  centered  around  the  theater.  Bom  in 
Boston,  she  moved,  at  an  early  age  to 
Riverdale,  a  section  of  New  York,  where 
she  took  part  in  community  theater  activi- 
ties. "I  was  stage  struck,"  says  Arlene. 
"Even  the  Sisters  at  the  Convent  of  Mt. 
St.  Vincent  Academy,  where  I  went  to 
school,  agreed  that  I  should  be  an  ac- 
tress." 

Her  father,  however,  was  unalterably 
opposed.  With  the  objectivity  of  an  in- 
telligent woman,  and  the  understanding  of 
a  loving  daughter,  Arlene  analyzes  it: 
"You  must  know  what  kind  of  a  man  my 
father  is.  He  came  here  from  Armenia, 
where  most  of  his  family  had  been  killed 
in  the  Turkish  massacres.  I  think  this 
intensified  his  desire  to  protect  me  from 
anything  and  everything.  In  New  York, 
he  became  the  foremost  photographer  of 
children — a  sort  of  Constance  Bannister 
of  his  day.  He's  a  big  man  and,  I  still 
think,  a  very  handsome  one.  He  was 
frugal,  careful,  honorable,  serious.  He 
was  also  immensely  strict — and  immensely 
kind.  He  believed  the  theater  was  no 
place  for  a  well-brought-up  young  girl. 
It  just  wasn't  respectable." 

JUer  mother,  American-born  of  English- 
German  heritage,  was,  according  to  Ar- 
lene: "The  exact  opposite  in  appearance 
and  temperament.  She  was  small,  blonde, 
and  always  very  gay.  She  loved  the 
theater  and  was  most  anxious  for  me  to 
have  a  pleasant  social  life." 

Matters  came  to  a  crisis  after  the  fam- 
ily moved  into  New  York  City  and  Arlene 
was  graduated  from  the  fashionable  Miss 
Finch's.  "Father  relented  sufficiently  to 
permit  me  to  attend  the  Theater  Guild 
School  for  a  year,  but  then  immediately 
sent  me  on  a  trip  to  Europe."  She  returned 
to  find  he  had  a  nice,  lady-like  occupation 
all  arranged.  He  had  opened  a  gift  shop 
for  her  on  swank  Madison  Avenue.  "I 
hated  every  moment  of  it,"  says  Arlene. 
"I  kept  sneaking  over  to  Broadway  to  do 
auditions,  hoping  that,  if  I  actually  landed 
a  part  in  a  play,  my  father  would  permit 
me  to  take  it." 

The  economics  of  the  Thirties  adminis- 
tered the  cowp  de  grace  to  the  gift  shop. 
"I  felt  sorry,  of  course,"  Arlene  says, 
"that  my  father  had  lost  a  great  deal  of 
money.  But  I  also  felt  free.  At  last  I 
had  a  chance  to  do  what  I  had  always 
wanted  to  do." 

Radio  provided  her  first  part.  "I  audi- 
tioned," Arlene  recalls,  "for  all  the  minor 
roles  in  a  script— a  dog,  a  cat,  a  little 
girl  and  a  witch."  Being  on  the  air  was 
somewhat  less  offensive  to  her  father. 
Arlene  went  on  to  do  daytime  dramas, 
comedies  and  serious  night-time  shows. 
She  at  last  won  his  full  approval.  "George 
Abbott  gave  me  my  first  real  stage  job  in 
'All  That  Glitters.'  Father  knew  Mr.  Ab- 
bott to  be  a  responsible  man,  a  gifted  man, 
a  good  man.  If  a  man  of  such  stature  be- 
lieved I  had  talent  and  wanted  me  in  a 
play,  Father  decided  it  must  be  all  right." 

Thus,  through  patience,  love,  work  and 
understanding,  the  conflict  was  at  last 
resolved.  Arlene's  ties  with  her  parents 
remain  close.  Today,  they  have  a  Park 
Avenue  apartment  a  few  blocks  distant 
from  Arlene's  own  four-story  town  house. 
"My  father-  is  the  official  advisor  in  all 
things   relating   to   our  tiny   garden,"   she 


says  happily.  "We  consult  him  before  we 
so  much  as  pull  a  weed." 

The  focus  of  Arlene's  life  continues  to 
be  the  romance  which  began  during  a 
radio  rehearsal  ten  years  ago.  Breathless 
as  a  sixteen-year-old,  she  recalls  how  she 
met  actor- director-producer  Martin  Gabel. 
"The  show  was  Big  Sister.  I  had  a  minor 
role  and  Martin  played  the  lead.  Dr.  John 
Wayne.  He  had  the  most  magnificent 
voice  I  had  ever  heard — and  I  was  also 
scared  to  death  of  him." 

Martin  liked  her,  too.  ("Because  I  was 
a  girl,  I  guess.")  He  proposed,  thanks  to 
Orson  Welles,  in  a  theater  while  waiting 
for  their  cues.  "We  were  both  in  Welles' 
production  of  'Danton's  Death,' "  Arlene 
explains.  "Martin  was  supposed  to  be 
dying;  I  was  his  nurse.  Well,  you  know 
Orson.  If  there  was  a  difficult  staging 
trick  to  be  found,  he'd  try  it  every  time. 
He  brought  us  on  stage  by  way  of  a 
creaky  old  elevator,  cranked  up  from  the 
cellar  by  a  complaining  stagehand.  And 
Orson's  rehearsals  always  run  slow.  And — 
you  get  to  know  a  man  pretty  well  when 
you're  shut  up  three  hours  with  him  in  a 
cellar." 

They  eloped  to  Paterson,  New  Jersey. 
Says  Arlene,  "Louis  Calhern  was  our  best 
man  and  Jimmy  Cannon  our  witness — or 
maybe  it  was  the  other  way  around." 

They  were  in  Hollywood,  where  Martin 
was  directing  a  picture,  when  their  son 
Peter  was  born.  "It  was  a  funny  situa- 
tion, now  that  I  think  of  it,"  Arlene  says. 
"Here  I  was,  great  with  child  and  work- 
ing, right  up  to  time  to  go  to  the  hospi- 
tal, in  a  radio  show  titled,  The  Affairs  Of 
Ann  Scotland.    I   was   supposed   to   be   a 


HELP..  eiwteMri£itt  |(n 


POLIO    VICTIMS 


ELIZABETH  KENNY 


1%) 


'rHA/i     FOUNDATION 

NATIONAL  HEADQUARTERS   •   MINNEAPOLIS,  MINN. 


sort  of  private  eyelash,  dashing  around 
having  all  sorts  of  wild  adventures." 

For  three  months,  she  devoted  all  her 
attention  to  her  son.  "Then  we  returned 
to  New  York  and  there  were  so  many 
things  to  do." 

Arlene's  ability  to  handle  many  inter- 
ests happily  and  neglect  none  is  founded 
on  a  very  deep-seated  conviction.  "I  have' 
a  modern  life  based  on  a  terribly  old- 
fashioned  idea.  I'm  almost  an  anti-femin- 
ist. While  I  do  think  a  woman  should 
have  the  freedom  to  utilize  her  talents,  I 
also  believe  that  the  man  is  head  of  the 
house  and  its  life  must  center  around  him. 
It  is  just  as  important  to  me  to  get  my 
husband's  suits  to  the  cleaners  on  time 
as  it  is  for  me  to  get  to  a  television  re- 
hearsal on  time." 

With  a  staff  consisting  of  a  couple,  plus 
a  secretary  and  a  once-a-week  laundress, 
Arlene  runs  her  household  with  an  effi- 
ciency which  would  be  the  envy  of  even 
the    strictest   Victorian   housekeeper.    Her 


I 


recipe  for  achieving  this  is  summed  up 
in  one  word — organization.  "I'm  a  great 
one  for  writing  things  down,"  she  says.  "It 
is  both  my  pleasure  and  my  pride  to  attend 
to  duties  myself,  not  to  leave  planning  and 
decision  to  someone  else." 

Her  day  begins  at  7  A.M.  At  7:30,  she 
has  breakfast  with  Peter,  who  now  is 
nine.  After  arranging  her  household  affairs, 
she  takes  him  to  school  and  goes  on  to  the 
NBC  studio  at  8  A.M.  At  noon,  when  the 
Home  broadcast  is  finished,  she  has  busi- 
ness appointments,  interviews  or  meetings 
with  sponsors.  At  1:30,  she  returns  to  the 
studio  for  additional  rehearsals  of  Home. 
The  latter  part  of  the  afternoon  is  devoted 
to  work  with  her  secretary.  Family  hours 
begin  at  five.  Both  Arlene  and  Martin  feel 
those  belong  to  Peter.  If  she  has  no  show 
that  evening,  they  dine  early. 

All  of  them  love  parlor  games — "spell- 
ing games,  adventure  games,  things  like 
that."  In  sxmimer,  baseball  holds  the 
famUy  interest.  "Martin's  a  Giant  fan," 
Arlene  says,  "and  I  had  to  learn  baseball 
in  self-defense."  Peter,  who  shares  their 
enthusiasm,  thinks  he  would  rather  be  a 
baseball  player  than  an  actor — "Acting 
is  too  hard  a  job."  Going  to  the  studio 
with  Arlene  one  day  during  vacation,  he 
played  catch  with  a  crew  member,  on  the 
edge  of  the  Home  set,  until  the  producer 
turned  umpire  and  called  time. 

Peter,  who  once,  as  a  tiny  tot,  com- 
plained that  Arlene  "went  to  too  many 
works,"  now  takes  her  job  for  granted 
and  finds  nothing  unusual  in  the  fact  that 
his  mother,  as  editor-in-chief  of  Home, 
has  flown  a  helicopter,  ridden  a  camel  and 
gone  down  to  the  bottom  of  the  ocean  in 
a  diving  bell. 

All  of  them  are  excited  about  Martin's 
plans  for  this  fall.  He  will  then  produce 
"Moby  Dick,"  bringing  Orson  Welles  back 
to  Broadway  in  the  star  role.  "That  will 
be  quite  a  reunion,"  says  Arlene  with  an- 
ticipation. 

Arlene  traces  some  of  her  ability  to 
handle  both  home  and  career  duties  to  her 
father's  training  in  that  unmourned  gift 
shop.  "Be  around  such  a  man  long 
enough,"  she  says,  "and  you're  bound  to 
learn,  perhaps  even  by  a  process  of  os- 
mosis. Running  that  gift  shop,  I  learned 
how  to  keep  books — and  I  still  do  them 
myself.  I  also  learned  there  are  a  hun- 
dred cents  in  every  dollar  and  they  all 
need  to  be  earned." 

Arlene  believes,  too,  that  it  wouldn't  be 
amiss  if  drama  schools  included  a  course 
in  bookkeeping  and  in  tax  regulations. 
"That's  what  most  aspiring  thespians  neg- 
lect, and  yet  it's  the  thing  you  deal  with 
most  of  your  life — how  to  pay  for  the 
bacon  and  eggs."  She  believes,  even 
more  strongly,  in  a  pay-as-you-go  policy. 
"Take  care  of  those  bills  first  of  all." 

A  wife's  outside  interests,  she  also  feels, 
can  strengthen  a  marriage  rather  than 
weaken  it.  "It  keeps  you  from  getting 
sloppy — mentally,  physically,  emotionally." 
She  thinks  that  having  a  busy  schedule 
can  even  contribute  to  continued  romance: 
"Martin  and  I  still  make  dates  to  see  each 
other.  We  appreciate  the  time  we  have 
together." 

"Thinking  time"  is  most  difficult  for  her 
to  manage:  "Norman  Vincent  Peale  has 
some  fine  advice  about  that,  which  has 
helped.  He  suggests,  whenever  there  is  a 
free  moment,  that  we  empty  the  mind  of 
work,  worry,  strain.  Letting  a  little  spirit- 
ual influence  flow  in  isn't  a  bad  idea, 
either." 

The  final,  self-imposed  Francis  rule  is 
one  which  assures  her  continued  popular- 
ity with  cast  and  crews  as  long  as  she  re- 
mains in  television.  She  says — and  heeds 
it — "Never  let  your  temper  rise  higher 
than   your   blood  pressure." 


FLAME-GLO 


ips  catch 
every  eye! 

Flame-Glo  boasts 
clear,  deep-vibrant 
colors  that  stay 
lastingly,  flatter  end- 
lessly !  Only  Flame-Glo 
has  Fastenol,  the  exclusive 
ingredient  that  seals 
the  brilliant  color  to  your 
lips,  kiss-inviting !  Dewy- 
moist  and  velvet  smooth,  day  and 
;;*#»'  night.  No  need  to  pay  a  dollar  or  more! 

Try  Flame-Glo  today  in  flattering  new  shades ! 


only 

39* 

GOLDEN 

SWIVEL 

CASE 


keep  kissable 
with 


i^'^ 


"TRIPLE-STAV'^LiPSTICK  15^,  29c  and  39^ 

(slightly  more  in  Canada) 

NtWI     Flame-Glo  Liquid  Rouge  gives  your 
cheeks  a  warm,  natural  glow  that  retains  color  freshness 
allday.  In  unbreakable  squeeze  bottle,  only  39^ 

FLAME-GLO  IS  SOLD  ONLY  AT  CHAIN  VARIETY  5  &  10<  STORES    \, 


NEW,  NATURAL  LIGHTWEIGHT 

DENTAL  PLATE 


NowPrieed 

Low  As 


MADE  FROM  YOUR  OLD  ONE— New.ProfeEsional 

Method  gives  you  natural-lookinK.perfectfitting: plastic 

plate — upper,  lower  or  partial— from  your  old  cracked  or 

loose  plate  without  an  impressimt.  CLINICAL  method 

means  fast  service,  huge  savings.  Try  new  plate  full  30 

days  at  our  risk.  New  plates  sent  you  AirMail  same  day. 

CrUn  Un   UnUrY— i"'S*''<>''''n»'"s'>°<''"i"i''«ssforfullP8rticu- 

OLnU  nU   mUHLI  larsFREE.  Nocost.  Noobligation.  Actnow. 

CLINICAL  DENTAL  UB.,335  W.MadisonSt.,Dept.99-L.  Chicago  6.  in. 

DOUBLE  YOUR  EARNINGS  WITH 

ChristmasCard  Bargain  Specials 


SELL 
50  CARD  ^ 

ASSORTMENT 


SUPPLY 
LIMITED! 
ORDER 
EARLY! 


Get  $1.25  C  A/f 
Boxes  for  9Ur 

si^'Vo^ias^ 


GetFS.EE  List  of  Factory  Surplus  Greeting  Card 
Bargains  and  make  the  biggest  profits  ever,  while 
supply  lasts.  Christmas,  Everyday,  Religious, 
Wraps  included.  All  first  quality.  Also  Free  Color 
Catalog,  over  200  newest  Card  Assortments  and 
Imprints,  Gift3  and  Gadgets.  Amazing  Catalog 
Shopping  Plan.  No  experience  needed.  We'll  send 
Bargain  List,  4  new  1955  boxes  on  approval  and 
Personalized  Samples  FREE,  if  you  write  at  once. 
MIDWEST  CARD  COMPANY 
1113  Washington  Ave.  Dept.  497F.  St.Louis  l,Mo. 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata-  T{/  <^f 

log  pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma-  St- jt<'  f*' 

ternity  fashions.  World's  Largest,  Complete  fdilk  tv 

Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep-  //l'P|,V  //•, 

arates, Sportswear, Girdles, Lingerie; $2.98  Vx'*'" ^^    '^v\ 

CRAWFORD'S  '^'-J^3 

Dept.  35,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City  14,Mo.    W\f7 


Berman's  Diamond  Loan  Banh 

Depf.  TG  — BERMAN  BLDG.,  BALTO.  1,  MD. 


Corns,  Callouses,  Bunions? 


PAIN  STOPS  FAST! 

No  waiting!  Super-SoftDr.  Scholl's  Zino- 
pads  stop  pain  at  its  source  ,  .  .  remove 
corns,  callouses  one  of  the  fastest  ways  - 
known  to  medical  science  .  .  .  stop  corns 
and  callouses  Before  they  can  develop . . , 
ease  new  or  tight  shoes  .  .  .  prevent  sore 
toes,  blisters.  No  other  method  does  all 
these  things  for  you.  For  FREE  sample, 
write  Dr.  Scholl's.  Inc.,  Chicago  10,  111, 


D^Scholls  lino-pads 


Nerv|, 


iff^ 


CALLOUSES 


91 


J 


Save  money  on  the  latest 

styles  in  dresses  and  coats, 

Sizes  38  to  60,  proportioned 

to  slenderize  your  appearance,  and 

all  at  low  prices.  100-page  Style 

Book  is  yours  FREE  and  postpaid. 

SJZES     ML  Dotted  border-print  Cotton 

60       ^hP      Frock  to  cheer  busy  days,  only 

BUST  $3.98.   Others  from    $2.98,   coats 

$12.98  up.  Also  shoes,  underwear,  corsets. 

Mail  coupon  below  for  FREE  Style  Book  today! 


DEPT.  6 
INDIANAPOLIS  17, 
INDIANA 


^e^r^ant 


I  Please  mail  me  FREE  Style  Book  lor  Stout  Women.  (6) 


Name 


Address 


Post  Office  'Siaie' 


3  ENLARGEMENTS  $100 

One  8x10  and  Two  5x7  for  only 


1 


92 


PLUS 

Oc  f  or 

shipping 

Made  from  any  size  photo  or  negative. 
Original  returned.  For  OIL  COLOR- 
ING send  50c  extra  for  each  8x10;  and 
30c  extra  for  each  5x7.  Enclose  full  pay- 
ment with  order. 

H.B.H.   Photo  Service,   Dept.   TS 

12  Fifth  Ave.         New  York  II,  N.  Y. 


£irc/f//)£'JVeHr  NAME-IN-RED 

PMCHMtHT  emiSTUAS  CAMS 

Showsmartestnewideain  Christ- 
mas Cards— at  magic  selling;  price 
of  25  for $1.00.  You'll  make  more 
money  easily  the  Southern  way! 

SOUTHERN  Gives  You  Fast  Service! 

I^H^H     ^K  With  no  experience  yoti  make  $65  on 
^^^H      ■  just  65  boxes  of  lovely  new  Southern 
^^V      ■  Hospitality  Christmas 
A     ■      A  Cards.    Up  to  100%  cash 
^^^9^^H  profit  on  New  Southern 
Beauty  21-Card  $1  Ass't. 
Also  new  Slim-Jinn 
Cards,  Gifts, others.  All 
order93hippedin24hours. 
FREE!Excluslvesamplc  < 
Presentation  Book  that] 
speeds  up  sales!  4  assort- 
menta  sent  on  approval.  Act  fast,  get  exquisite 
Travel  Slipprrs  n'Case/ree.  Send  coupon  now!  J 

r^mJTH&RrTGRiiTINGS,  DepT-F-aT 
I    478  N.Hollywood  StMlMemphls  12»Tenn, 

•    Name .___>_,_-,.-_„_ -■■ 

j    AddretfH 

I    City  SlaU 


mi 

fOR  PROMPT 
I      ACTION 


Daytime  Diary 


All  programs  are  heard  Monday  through  Friday; 
local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


consult 


BACKSTAGE  WiFE  Despite  Mary 
Noble's  best  efforts,  the  scheming  actress 
EUse  Shephard  shows  less  intention  than 
ever  of  relinquishing  her  hold  on  Larry, 
Mary's  handsome  actor-husband.  As  pro- 
ducer Malcolm  Devereux  mistakenly  tries 
to  help  Mary — which  means  in  his  view  to 
widen  the  rift  in  her  marriage  so  that  he 
can  take  Larry's  place — the  situation  is 
complicated  by  the  strange,  hypnotic  old 
actress  who  seems  to  know  an  important 
secret.   CBS  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  DAV  Editor  Max 
Canfield  has  had  one  unhappy  experience 
in  romance.  Is  he  heading  for  another  as 
he  learns  the  truth  about  Lydia  Harrick, 
the  charming  sister-in-law  of  the  temper- 
amental, selfish  architect  whom  Reverend 
Dennis  hired  to  build  the  Youth  Center? 
Has  Don  Harrick  a  hold  over  Lydia  more 
significant  than  his  own  demanding  na- 
ture? How  will  Grayling  Dennis  and  his 
bride  Sandra  be  involved  in  Max's  love 
affair?    CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

FIRST  LOVE  Zach's  trial  for  the  mur- 
der of  Petey  takes  him  and  Laurie  through 
the  darkest  hours  of  their  lives.  Can  they 
ever  completely  recover  from  such  a 
dreadful  ordeal — even  after  the  truth  is 
revealed  and  Zach  is  free?  Will  some 
emotional  reaction  end  by  twisting  their 
feeling  for  one  another  into  misunder- 
standing— particularly  insofar  as  the  young 
lawyer  who  fought  for  Zach  is  concerned? 
NBC-TV. 

THE  GUIDING  LIGHT  Tlie  meeting 
between  Kathy  Lang  and  Marie  Wallace 
leaves  each  of  them  wistfully  certain  that 
the  other  is  the  woman  in  Dr.  Dick  Grant's 
life.  Are  they  both  wrong?  Meanwhile, 
Kathy's  friend  Bertha  Bauer  struggles 
through  a  serious  problem  as  her  recently 
widowed  mother  shows  every  intention  of 
taking  over  her  daughter's  life  and  home. 
Will  Bill  permit  it?  How  will  young 
Michael  react?    CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

JUST  PLAIN  BILL  Close  .family  ties 
lead  both  Bill  and  his  daughter  Nancy 
into  trouble  as  each  of  them  tries  to  do 
something  for  the  other.  Disturbed  at  her 
father's  efforts  to  help  a  friend,  Nancy 
takes  a  hand  in  the  situation  and  en- 
dangers her  own  family.  Will  the  young 
lawyer  whom  Bill  is  trying  to  help  be 
grateful  or  annoyed  as  Bill  is  instrumental 
in  forcing  him.  to  realize  the  truth  he  has 
tried  to  avoid?    NBC  Radio. 

LORENZO  JONES  Belle's  efforts  to  help 
Lorenzo  regain  his  memory  culminate  in 
an  audacious  scheme  —  and  when  the 
scheme  fails  she  really  acknowledges  de- 
spair. Is  it  possible  that  after  years  of 
effort  she  must  resign  herself  to  the  fact 
that  Lorenzo,  unable  to  recall  their  mar- 
riage, really  wishes  to  go  on  to  another 
romance  and  another  life?  If  this  is  true, 
what  lies  ahead  for  Belle?  NBC  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Vanessa  Raven  knows 
she  is  taking  a  chance  when  she  makes  a 
foster-home  for  the  unfortunate  little 
daughter   of  the   deranged   Judith  Lodge, 


Paul  Raven's  first  wife.  But  the  child's 
need — and  Van's  need  for  a  child — over- 
ride caution,  and  Van  devotes  herself  to 
helping  little  Carol  despite  the  knowledge 
that  Judith  will  never  allow  this  oppor- 
timity  to  pass.  Can  Judith  reassert  a 
claim  to  Carol — a  child  she  doesn't  want? 
CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  Only  because,  in  the 
course  of  her  long  and  busy  life.  Ma  has 
overcome  so  much  trouble  can  she  face 
the  disappearance  of  Gladys'  baby  with 
so  much  courage.  At  first  the  mys- 
tery seems  impenetrable,  compUcated  by 
Gladys'  state  of  mind.  But  Ma  knows 
what  can  be  accompUshed  by  faith  and 
courage,  and  never  loses  hope.  Still,  what 
about  the  marriage  of  Gladys  and  Joe? 
Apart  from  Baby  Jane,  is  something  else 
disturbing  it?     CBS  Radio. 

ONE  MAN'S  FAMILY    The    Barbour 

girls  are  ruefully  mindful  of  many  long- 
ago  tussles  with  their  father  as  they  face 
problems  with  their  own  grown  and  half- 
grown  children  that  echo  the  past.  Will 
they  handle  these  problems  as  Father  and 
Mother  Barbour  handled  them?  Will  they 
do  better  or  worse — or  just  the  same? 
Claudia,  facing  family  rebellion,  wonders 
if  modern  psychology  really  has  all  the 
answers.    NBC  Radio. 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  Though  Leslie 
Northhurst's  death  removed  the  threat  to 
Lord  Henry's  title  and  estates,  it  has 
created  another  one  that  looms  even  more 
blackly  over  the  Brinthropes'  happiness. 
As  Sunday's  efforts  to  save  Lord  Henry's 
good  name  lead  her  into  actions  aU  too 
easily  misinterpreted,  the  trouble  between 
them  deepens  and  Lord  Henry  becomes 
convinced  that  their  futures  He  in  differ- 
ent directions.    CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  YOUNG'S  FAMILY  After 
years  of  a  happy  marriage,  Peggy  Young 
Trent  faces  the  possibility  that  her  hus- 
band Carter  may  have  disappeared  for 
good.  Believing  himself  liable  to  a  homi- 
cide charge.  Carter  desperately  tries  to  put 
his  past  behind  him  and  build  a  new  life 
in  far-away  New  York.  Is  it  possible  that 
little  by  little  the  substitute  may  come  to 
replace  the  real  thing  with  Carter?  NBC 
Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  Only  a  man  of  Perry 
Mason's  vast  and  curious  experience  would 
have  a  chance  of  discovering  what  is  going 
on  in  tycoon  Sam  Merriweather's  organi- 
zation. The  slow  poison  being  administered 
by  Sid  Kenyon  and  Eve,  the  woman  posing 
as  Sam's  daughter,  has  already  taken  its 
toll  before  Perry  begins  to  suspect  that 
the  eventual  victim  will  be  Lois  Monahan, 
known  to  all  as  Sam's  secretary  but  in 
reality  his  true  daughter.    CBS  Radio. 

THE  RIGHT  TO  HAPPINESS      New 

understanding  unites  Carolyn  and  her 
husband,  Miles  Nelson,  after  the  crisis 
that  came  close  to  ending  their  marriage. 
And  Annette  Thorpe  is,  apparently,  de- 
feated as  far  as  Miles  personally  is  con- 
cerned.   But  Carolyn  knows  Annette  too 


well  to  be  deceived  about  her  attitude  to- 
ward defeat  of  any  kind.  From  what 
quarter  will  Annette's  new  attack  come — 
and  will  Carolyn  be  able  to  meet  it  once 
more?    NBC  Radio. 

THJE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  Sibyl  Fuller  is 
torn  by  a  desire  to  confess  to  Jim  the 
secret  she  thinks  has  won  him — the  truth 
about  the  phone  call  that  led  to  the  de- 
porting of  his  wife  Jocelyn  as  an  luidesir- 
able  alien.  Not  knowing  that  Jim's  pre- 
tense of  love  has  been  directed  toward  the 
very  end  of  getting  her  to  tell  him  the 
truth  that  will  reinstate  Jocelyn,  Sibyl 
wanders  toward  the  edge  of  disaster.  Will 
some  evil  sixth  sense  save  her?  CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

When  Gil  Whitney's  marriage  to  Cynthia 
Swanson  seemed  to  bar  him  forever  from 
Helen,  she  turned  briefly  to  wealthy  Brett 
Chapman  for  comfort.  But  now  that  Cyn- 
thia appears  willing  to  divorce  Gil,  Brett 
sees  that  he  has  no  real  place  in  Helen's 
thoughts.  Will  this  make  him  her  enemy? 
And  will  his  enmity  be  more  dangerous 
than  she  knows,  in  view  of  his  knowledge 
of  Gil's  secretary,  the  sleek  and  predatory 
Fay  Granville?    CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH  FOR  TOMORROW  Young 
Melanie  Pritchard  has  been  very  frank 
about  the  reason  for  her  trip  to  Hender- 
son— her  desire  to  catch  a  rich  husband. 
Is  her  frankness  a  clever  way  of  disarm- 
ing her  victims?  Is  Marge  Bergman  right 
when  she  finds  herself  unable  to  take 
Melanie  to  her  heart?  And  what  about 
Nathan  Walsh,  who  seemed  like  Melanie's 
logical  quarry — xuitil  certain  unexpected 
changes  took  place  in  the  Bergman  house- 
hold?   CBS-TV. 

SECOND  HVSRAND  The  misgivings 
with  which  Diane  entered  into  her  mar- 
riage with  Wayne  Lockwood  are  more 
than  justified  when  it  becomes  painfully 
evident  that  his  wealthy  family  will  never 
approve  of  his  alliance  with  a  young 
widow,  mother  of  two  children.  Opposi- 
tion from  Diane's  children  complicates  her 
position,  but  the  fatal  misunderstanding 
connived  at  by  Wayne's  father  is  more 
than  Diane  can  face.  Must  she  look  else- 
where for  happiness?    CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECOND  MRS.  RVRTON  Stan 
Burton  is  wearily  ready  to  proclaim  that 
if  anything  can  cause  more  trouble  than 
one's  pctrents  it's  one's  in-laws.  Already 
much  disturbed  over  his  mother's  associa- 
tion with  flamboyant  Buck  Halliday,  Stan 
is  plunged  into  further  gloom  when  his 
wife  Terry's  father  appears  on  the  scene 
and  makes  things  worse.  Will  Stan  have 
to  bribe  his  mother  not  to  marry  HalU- 
day?     Will   Terry    allow   it?     CBS    Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Defeated  m  her 
last  vicious  effort  to  ruin  Peter,  Pauline 
Tyrrell  knows  a  momentary  pang  of  real 
remorse.  Will  her  evidently  sincere  apol- 
ogy deceive  Peter  into  trusting  her,  and 
treating  her  once  more  as  the  sister  of 
his  dead  wife  and  the  loving  aunt  of  his 
children?  Or  will  his  need  to  protect  Jane 
Edwards  make  him  as  cautious  as  he 
should  be  in  dealing  with  Pauline?  And 
what  of  Jane's  husband,  no  longer  missing? 
CBS-TV. 

STELLA  DALLAS  Long  ago,  when  her 
daughter  Laurel  married  Dick  Grosvenor, 
Stella  Dallas  vowed  to  allow  Laurel  to 
manage  her  own  affairs.  But  she  has  been 
unable  to  stand  by  and  see  Laurel's  mar- 
riage wrecked  through  a  series  of  misun- 
derstandings arranged  by  her  enemies. 
WUl  Stella  be  able  to  save  Laurel  from 
the  machinations  of  Ada  Dexter  and  her 


son,  Stanley  Warrick?  Will  they  wreck 
the  marriage  through  Dick,  if  Laurel  re- 
mains invulnerable?    NBC  Radio. 

THIS  IS  NDRA  DRAKE  Reporter 
David  Brown,  collapsing  in  a  frightening 
blackout,  gives  Nora  the  first  clue  to  the 
mystery  she  has  always  sensed  behind 
David  and  his  sister  Lorraine.  Is  David 
responsible  for  his  own  sickness?  Is  there 
something  Lorraine  knows  that  could  help? 
Why  does  Lorraine's  own  mother  distrust 
her — and  what  did  the  unhappy,  deranged 
murderer  whom  David  helped  capture 
mean  when  he  claimed  a  resemblance  be- 
tween   David    and    himself?     CBS    Radio. 

VALIANT  LADY  Helen  Emerson's  ef- 
forts to  help  Linda  regain  her  place  in 
normal  society  and  reestablish  her  mar- 
riage to  Chris  are  painful  enough — since 
Helen  loves  Chris — without  the  tragic  by- 
product that  unexpectedly  overtakes  her. 
Will  misunderstanding  and  malice  perma- 
nently damage  Helen's  reputation?  How 
will  her  children  be  affected  if  the  plans 
of  Linda's  mother  are  successful?  Can 
Helen  coxmt  on  Eill  Eraser?  CBS-TV. 

WENDY  IVARREN  AND  THE  NEWS 

At  the  beginning  of  Wendy's  friendship 
with  Dr.  Dalton  and  his  appealing  little 
daughter,  the  disturbance  they  caused  in 
her  life  was  purely  emotional.  But  there 
are  strange  and  threatening  elements  tight- 
ening a  hold  on  the  Daltons'  new  life, 
building  up  danger  so  far-reaching  in  its 
consequences  that  it  will  be  a  long  time 
before  all  the  truth  comes  to  light.  Will 
Wendy  be  able  to  avert  a  possible  tragedy? 
CBS  Radio. 

WHJEiV  A  GIRL  MARRIES  Joan  and 
Harry  Davis  are  well  aware  of  the  fate 
that  usually  overtakes  matchmakers,  but 
the  girl  they  have  chosen  for  their  friend 
Phil  Stanley  seems  so  right  for  him  that 
they  feel  confident  they  cannot  be  making 
a  mistake  in  promoting  the  match.  And 
in  a  sense  they  are  right — for  the  kind  of 
trouble  into  which  their  matchmaking  ac- 
tivities lead  them  is  far  from  anything 
they   could  have  anticipated.  ABC  Radio. 

THE  WOMAN  IN  MY  HOUSE     No 

matter  how  large  or  how  small  the  family, 
there  is  always  one  problem  at  the  core 
of  it  so  far  as  the  parents  are  concerned — 
how  to  maintain  that  delicate  balance  be- 
tween not  too  much  and  not  too  little 
supervision  of  their  children's  lives.  Have 
the  Carters  succeeded?  Sometimes  Jessie 
Carter,  thinking  of  her  brood,  congratu- 
lates herself.  And  at  other  times  she  won- 
ders .  .  .  without  ever  being  sure.  NBC 
Radio. 

YOUNG  DR.  M ALONE  At  long  last 
the  fight  is  out  in  the  open — the  fight  that 
Dr.  Ted  Mason  is  sure  will  end  in  his 
wresting  leadership  of  the  Dineen  Clinic 
from  Dr.  Jerry  Malone.  But  Jerry  has 
many  assets  Ted  cannot  evaluate — honesty 
and  the  confidence  of  the  townspeople, 
among  them.  And  Ted  counts  as  an  asset 
something  he  would  do  better  to  investi- 
gate— the  help  of  his  wife  Marcia,  and  her 
money.   CBS  Radio. 

YOUNG  WIDDER  DROWN  Millicent 
Loring,  knowing  her  husband  Anthony  is 
still  in  love  with  the  young  widow  from 
whom  she  alienated  him  by  a  trick, 
schemes  desperately  to  save  her  marriage 
no  matter  how  she  has  to  hurt  Ellen 
Brown.  Can  Ellen's  new,  faint  hope  for  the 
future  survive  MUlicent's  ruthless  attack? 
Will  Anthony  come  to  Ellen's  aid  despite 
his  wife — or  will  he  be  as  much  deceived 
as  everyone  else  by  Millicent's  schemes? 
NBC  Radio. 


5 DRESSES 


For 


NOW  READY!  GORGEOUS,  SMART,] 
MODERN  STYLE  DRESSES  FOR  ALL 
OCCASIONS! 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for  ' 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as- 
sortment of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety 
of  luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons, 
cottons,  gabardines,  wo<Jens, 
silks,  etc.  Expensive  dresses — 
original  value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cards!  5  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 


MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON! 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.  847  I 

(One  of  the  oldest  end  largest  mail  order  liouses  of  its  kind) 
I     103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y.  • 

Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below    f 
with   Free   Button  Cards.   Enclosed    find   $  1    de- 
posit,   balance   C.O.D.    plus   postage.    Money    re- 
turned if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and 
foreign  orders  accepted. 
Circle  Sixe: 

Girl's  Sizes  7,  8,  10,  12,  14  are  5  for  $2.75 
'     Junior  Miss  Sizes  9,  11,  13.  15  are  5  for  $3.75 
I  Sizes  12,  14.  16,  18,20,38,40,42,44.5  for  $3.75 
I  Sizes  14 '/a.  16 V^,  18 54,  20  Vi.  22  H.  24  J^.  5  for  $3.75 
I     Extra  Large  Sizes  46,  48,  50,  52  are  5  for  $4.75 
I      D  Check   here   to   save   C.O.D.   fee.   Send   full 
I  amount  with  25<*  postage. 

J  □  Please   send  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY 

I 
I 

I     Addren _ 

I     City Zone    State 


Name... 


93 


Helps  you  to 

KEEP 
CALM 


MILES 


NERVINE 


On  those  days 
when  things  seem 
to  go  wrong,  it's 
only  human  to 
feel  tense  and  keyed-up.  So,  feel  calm  .  .  . 
relax,  with  MILES  NERVINE!  MILES 
NERVINE  soothes  nervous  tension,  and  helps 
you  feel  better!  Follow  the  label,  avoid  ex- 
cessive use.  MILES  NERVINE  is  sold  at  all 
drugstores,  in  effervescent  tablets  and  liquid. 


Take 

MILES 


NERVINE 


He  Loves  a  "Lassie" 


Dept.  30 


JtfOiV/SaveUpto50% 

on  Nationally  Advertised  Gifts 

Use  this  big,  new  FREE  CATA- 
LOG to  buy  all  kinds  of  g-ifts 
and  merchandise  for  yourself, 
family,  friends,  neighbors.  Ter- 
rific saving  on  big-name  items. 
Also,  make  money  spare  time 
taking'    orders    from    others! 

EVERGREEN  STUDIOS 

Box  846  Chicago   42,    III. 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 


A  few  drops  of  OUTGBO  ©bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  ingrown  nail.  OUTGEO  tough- 
ens the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.   OUTGRO  is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


tViAKE  $50-$60  A  WEEK 

You  can  learn  at  home  in  spare  time. 
Choice    of    careers :    practical    nurse, 
nursing  aide,  hospitalattendant,  infant 
nurse,  nurse-companion,  doctor's  office, 
etc.    Course    endorsed    by    physicians. 
56th  year.  Equipment  included.  Men, 
women,  18  to  60.  High  school  not  re- 
quired.   Easy  tuiaoD  payments.   Trial  plan.    Write   today, 
CHICAGO    SCHOOL    OF     NURSING 
Dept.  2t0.  25   East  Jackson   Blvd.,   Chicago  4.    111. 
Please  send  free   booklet  and   16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Same , 

Citu State Ape 


Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

.  The    secret   is   a   new   healing   substance 

(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 

*         research  institute. 

R  This   substance   is   now  available   in   sup- 

pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.    'Keg.  u.  s.  Pat.  off. 

94 


{Continued  from,  page  42) 
series,  he  is  all  boy,  and  I  can  safely  say 
he  hasn't  missed  any  of  the  typical  grow- 
ing boy's  problems.  This  includes  every- 
thing from  a  child's  sprained  finger  to  a 
young  teenager's  sprained  heart. 

I  am  very  definitely  aware  of  the  "sud- 
den change"  that  comes  over  our  teenagers 
— at  thirteen  or  fourteen,  they  suddenly 
discover  themselves  and  the  world  around 
them.  Tommy,  for  example,  recently  came 
bounding  Lassie-like  into  our  Westwood 
apartment,  after  a  Saturday  matinee,  and 
announced,  "Mom,  I've  got  a  problem." 

I  said,  "Yes,  what  is  it?" 

He  said,  "If  my  girl,  Marilyn,  keeps  on 
growing,  I  don't  know  how  much  longer 
I'm  going  to  be  able  to  get  her  into  the 
show  for  twenty-five  cents." 

"So?"  I  asked. 

"So,"  he  answered,  "when  a  real  man 
takes  his  girl  to  the  movies,  he  pays  for 
the  whole  thing.  I  think  I  need  a  boost 
in  my  allowance." 

I  can  remember  a  similar  incident,  not 
too  long  ago,  which  points  up  the  sudden 
changes  the  "teen"  years  bring.  I  had 
taken  Tommy  and  another  little  girl  to 
the  same  show,  calling  for  them  atfter- 
wards.  When  I  dropped  the  girl  ofE  in  front 
of  her  house.  Tommy  leaned  out  the  car 
window  to  say:  "Don't  forget,  I  bought 
your  popcorn.  You  owe  me  a  dime!"  So, 
you  see,  things  have  changed. 

1  have  always  tried  to  keep  the  lines  of 
communication  open  with  Tommy.  I  think 
that  this  can  best  be  accomplished  by  try- 
ing to  see  the  world  through  his  eyes,  by 
remembering  what  my  life  was  like  at  his 
age  .  .  .  oh,  how  I  wanted  independence! 
Tommy  is  no  different  from  other  teen- 
agers in  this  regard.  They  all  become 
acutely  conscious  of  themselves  and  of 
the  opposite  sex,  and  they,  are  naturally 
interested  in  exploring  this  exciting  new 
subject.  My  opinion  is  that  independence 
should  be  encouraged,  but  teenagers  still 
need  a  certain  amount  of  guidance. 

I  have  found  that  a  party  at  the  house  is 
one  way  to  bring  the  children  together — 
and  still  supply  the  needed  supervision. 
For  example,  I  have  had  a  bridge  game 
going  in  another  room  while  Tommy  and 
his  friends  partied.  I  don't  think  it's  wise 
to  stand  by  all  the  time,  trying  to  look 
inconspicuous — for  example,  by  changing 
the  records  on  their  machine.  The  children 
soon  get  wise  to  this,  knowing  that  they 
are  being  "policed."  Rather,  I  think,  it  is 
better  to  have  some  obviously  good  reason 
just  to  walk  through  now  and  then,  to  re- 
fill the  punch  bowl  or  distribute  cookies. 

The  idea  is  not  so  much  to  interfere  or 
to  try  to  supervise  their  games  or  dancing, 
as  to  let  them  know  you  are  there  in  case 
of  emergencies.  You  see  a  lot  more  than 
they  think  you  see,  and  it  better  equips 
you  to  cope  with  their  problems  when  they 
bring  them  to  you.  Because  you  are  not 
ignorant  of  their  problems,  you  are  able 
to  handle  them  in  a  diplomatic  way.  It's 
the  diplomacy  that  is  important. 

You  have  to  encourage  the  free  flow  of 
ideas  back  and  forth.  Take  questions  of  sex, 
for  example — the  teenager  has  hundreds 
of  unanswered  questions.  This  is  an  im- 
portant subject  in  his  life.  You  can't  ignore 
the  questions,  for  he  will  then  go  else- 
where with  his  queries.  You  have  to  accept 
this  kind  of  question  nonchalantly,  for — 
if  your  teenager  suspects  that  you  think 
this  is  a  problem — you're  in  hot  water. 

For  example,  I  have  always  wanted 
Tommy  to  have  a  lot  of  young  friends, 
boys  and  girls  alike.  So  it  threw  me  the 
other  day  when  he  came  in  and  told  me 
he  was  going  "steadily." 


I  said,  "You  mean  'steady,'  don't  you? 
Aren't  you  a  little  young  for  that?" 

"You  don't  understand,"  he  replied. 
"  'Steadily'  means  you  like  a  girl,  but  can 
go  out  with  anyone  else  you  want.  'Steady' 
means  you  like  a  girl,  but  can't  go  out  with 
anyone  else!" 

"Oh,"  I  said,  "and  you  are  going  'stead- 
ily.' " 

"That's  right,"  he  said. 

Well,  you  can  see  that,  with  this  defini- 
tion, I  was  very  much  relieved. 

I  think  this  age  can  best  be  described 
as  the  one  at  which  boys  discover  girls 
and  vice  versa.  As  Tommy  says — and  I 
quote:    "I've  discovered  them." 

Well,  haven't  we  all!  In  fact,  it's  with 
just  this  point  in  common  that  I  am  able 
to  reassure  Tommy  that  his  changes  are 
not  unique  with  him.  "Tommy,"  I  say, 
"don't  worry.  I  felt  the  same  way  ...  I 
did  exactly  the  same  thing  when  I  was 
your  age."  I  try  to  reassure  him  that  every- 
thing that  is  happening  to  him  has  hap- 
pened to  me,  too. 

I  think  this  is  the  answer  to  the  question 
in  the  letter  from  the  teenager's  parent 
whose  line  of  communication  with  her  son 
had  been  broken.  To  make  sure  that 
Tommy  and  I  do  talk  the  same  language, 
I've  never  been  afraid  to  share  with  him 
my  own  early  experiences — to  point  out 
that  we  have  experiences  in  common.  It 
helps  to  keep  us  in  contact.  I  think  the 
same  assurance  would  help  to  re-estab- 
lish contact  with  children  who  have  sud- 
denly become  strangers. 

Even  though  an  acting  career  is  not  the 
usual  thing  for  a  boy  of  his  age.  Tommy 
has  a  strong  desire  to  "belong."  This  is 
true  of  all  teenagers.  In  Tommy's  case, 
the  desire  to  be  like  the  other  boys  goes 
back  to  his  first  days  in  school.  "Don't 
treat  me  like  a  special  boy,"  he  said.  "I 
want  to  be  like  everyone  else." 

When  he  was  doing  some  of  his  first 
screen  work  at  20th  Century-Fox,  I  real- 
ized the  importance  of  his  going  to  school 
with  other  children.  When  he  was  between 
pictures,  I  arranged  for  him  to  go  to  St. 
Paul's  in  Westwood.  Later,  when  we 
moved,  he  went  to  Notre  Dame,  where  he 
was  just  graduated,  and  now  is  going  to 
Chaminade  High  School. 

So,  with  the  exception  of  his  acting, 
Tommy  is  very  much  like  a  carbon  copy 
of  the  all-American  boy:  He  has  his  school 
friends,  his  parties,  certain  chores,  and,  like 
everyone  else,  he  plays  ball.  I'll  never  for- 
get the  episode  with  the  baseball  mitt. 

Tommy  came  to  me  one  day  saying,  "I 
could  sure  use  a  new  mitt.  .  ." 

I  said,  "I  don't  know  whether  I  ought  to 
get  you  a  new  mitt.  First,  because  I'm  not 
sure  you  need  one.  And,  secondly,  because 
you  will  probably  play  ball  with  it  in  front 
of  your  piano  teacher — and  you  know  that 
gives  him  heart  failure." 

Tommy  said,  "The  mitt  is  worn  out — so 
worn  out  that,  if  you  don't  get  me  a  new 
one,  I'll  probably  sprain  five  fingers  and 
then  the  piano  teacher  will  have  heart 
failure!"  I  felt  blackmailed.  But,  needless 
to  say,  he  got  his  mitt. 

Like  every  Americein  boy.  Tommy  has 
certain  chores  to  do  around  the  house;  he 
has  the  dogs  to  feed  and  walk,  he  has  to 
pick  up  around  his  room,  he's  responsible 
for  the  garbage,  cans,  and  papers,  and  re- 
turning the  empty  soda  bottles.  The  money 
he  gets  from  the  bottles  is  clear  profit,  for 
it  is  over  and  above  his  newly-upped  al- 
lowance of  five  dollars  a  week.  The  five 
dollars  takes  care  of  his  school  lunches, 
an  occasional  hot-dog  dinner  with  his 
friends,  and  the  Saturday  afternoon  mat- 
inee— that's  tickets  for  two. 


Tommy's  at  the  age  where  he  loves  to 
talk  automobiles.  I've  learned  to  encour- 
age his  automotive  and  scientific  inter- 
ests by  supplying  him  with  a  mountain  of 
magazines  each  month:  ScieTice  Digest, 
Flying,  Pcypular  Science,  Aviation,  Time, 
Flight,  American  Science  and  Popular  Me- 
chanics. The  information  he  gleans  from 
these  books  comes  in  handy.  Once  I 
stalled  in  the  middle  of  Wilshire  Boule- 
vard cind  couldn't  get  the  car  started  again. 
Tommy  said,  "I  can  tell  from  the  sound 
that  it's  flooded.  Now  hold  your  foot  down 
on  the  accelerator — don't  pump  it  ..."  I 
did  and  the  car  started. 

Another  time,  I  came  home  after  having 
the  motor  die  about  five  times  in  heavy 
trafSc.  Tommy  took  a  screwdriver  and 
set  up  the  idling- jet.  Motor  ran  fine.  I 
don't  understand  what  happened,  but  he 
could  explain  the  whole  thing  to  you. 

r  or  years.  Tommy's  interests  have  run 
along  the  scientific  line.  According 
to  his  teacher,  he  is  very  good  in  mathe- 
matics and  scientific  subjects.  For  a  while, 
when  he  was  younger,  he  wanted  to  be- 
come an  inventor.  The  past  two  yeeirs,  he's 
shifted  his  sights — now  he  wants  to  be  a 
doctor.  But  he  doesn't  want  to  give  up 
acting,  he'd  like  to  combine  his  acting  and 
medicine.  He  had  some  idea,  a  while  back, 
about  going  to  college,  joining  the  Naval 
ROTC,  and  then  becoming  a  flight  sxir- 
geon.  When  I  asked  him  why,  he  said, 
"Then  I  can  get  my  medical  training  free!" 

Tommy's  talent  was  discovered  outside 
the  famUy.  His  acting  career  began  by 
accident  in  1947,  in  New  York,  when  he 
was  five  and  a  half  years  old.  In  fact,  it 
began  more  as  a  dare  than  anything  else, 
when  I  called  a  friend's  bluff.  She  had 
maintained  for  some  time  that  Tommy  was 
great  stage  material,  that  he  had  a  lot  of 
talent.  I  always  said,  "If  he  has  it  now, 
he'll  have  it  later." 

She  was  determined,  though,  to  prove 
to  me  that  Tommy  should  be  seen.  One 
day,  she  came  to  me,  saying,  "If  Rod- 
gers  and  Hammerstein  told  you  that 
Tommy  had  talent,  would  you  beUeve 
them?"  I  said,  "Who  are  Rodgers  and 
Hammerstein?"  Well,  later,  we  all  had  a 
great  laugh  at  that! 

At  any  rate,  she  did  arrange  the  audition. 
I  sat  outside  in  the  car.  One  of  the  men 
in  the  office  came  out,  asking  me  to  come 
inside.  I  did.  As  I  walked  through  the 
offices,  I  saw  Tommy  at  one  end  of  the 
corridor  spieling  away  this  great  long 
kindergarten  poem.  He  struck  me  as  being 
quite  "hammy!"  But  Rodgers  and  Ham- 
merstein were  thrilled  with  his  natural 
ability.  They  loved  Tommy  from  the  start 
and  wanted  to  sign  him. 

We  were  rushed  over  by  cab  to  the 
Shubert  Theater,  where  Joshua  Logan 
was  directing  Mary  Martin  in  "Annie  Get 
Your  Gun."  Tommy  was  put  up  on  the 
stage,  where  he  was  asked  to  "talk  to  the 
back  door."  Tommy  broke  into  his  poem, 
his  voice  booming  out  across  the  theater. 
In  seconds,  he  had  his  audience  in  stitches. 
He  was  signed,  we  rehearsed  for  a  few 
days,  and  left  with  the  touring  company 
for  "Texas.  Tommy  hadn't  had  a  complete 
run-through  before  he  went  on  in  his  first 
performance. 

We  were  on  the  road  twenty-two 
months.  Tommy  just  loved  it.  In  fact,  he 
adjusted  more  easily  than  I  did.  After  the 
first  three  weeks,  I  was  sort  of  dickering 
with  myself  as  to  whether  or  not  we 
should  leave — show  business  required  a 
new  kind  of  patience.  But  Tommy  thrived 
on  the  new  sights  and  sounds,  the  new 
faces  and  places.  He  was  sick  only  two 
days  in  the  next  twenty-two  months,  after 
touring  forty-five  states  and  Canada.  It 
was  soon  plain  to  me  that  he  was  "at 
home"  in  show  business. 


When  we  finished  the  tour.  Tommy  and 
I  returned  to  New  York,  where  he  did  an 
educational  film  with  Eddie  Albert  called 
"Human  Beginnings."  The  film  is  still 
used  throughout  the  country  to  teach  sex 
education  in  pubUc  schools.  After  it  was 
finished.  Tommy  and  I  took  some  time  off. 
This  was  the  summer  of  1949,  and  the 
World  Series  was  in  progress. 

Tommy  fell  in  love  with  Joe  DiMaggio 
and  the  Yankees — so,  at  the  game,  I 
bought  him  a  Yankee  uniform,  complete 
with  baseball  bat  and  hat.  That  day,  when 
we  returned  home,  several  calls  were 
waiting  for  tis  from  director  Marc  Dan- 
iels. He  had  been  trying  to  reach  us  for 
some  time.  When  we  went  over  to  his  office 
later.  Tommy  stiU  had  on  his  imiform. 

"Where  have  you  been?"  Mr.  Daniels 
asked. 

"To  the  World  Series,"  Tommy  an- 
swered, happily.  "We  saw  Tommy  Hen- 
rich  hit  a  home  run  when  the  score  was 
tied.  He  saved  the  day,  and  the  Yankees 
won!  It  was  great!" 

"Oh,  it  was  great,  was  it?"  said  Mr. 
Daniels.  "Well,  it  just  so  happens  that 
I'm  a  Brooklyn  fan.  and  I  had  money  on 
the  Dodgers  to  win.  I  fully  expected,"  he 
continued  humorously,  "to  give  you  a  job 
today.  But,  if  you're  Yankee  fan,  I'm  not 
sure  you're  the  boy  for  it." 

Tommy  said  very  seriously,  "I'm  sorry 
you  lost  the  money,  Mr.  Daniels.  But,  job 
or  no  job,  I  still  want  the  Yankees  to  win." 

"Well,"  Mr.  Daniels  said,  "with  an  atti- 
tude like  that,  you'll  never  lose — so  you 
might  as  weU  have  the  job." 

He  signed  Tommy  in  the  role  of  Pud  in 
"On  Borrowed  Time"  for  the  Ford  Thea- 
ter. And  no  sooner  was  Tommy  off  the 
air  than  we  were  besieged  with  phone 
calls  from  agents  who  wanted  to  repre- 
sent him.  I  told  them  all  that  I  would  be 
happy  to  speak  with  them  one  at  a  time. 

One  of  the  agents  who  called  was  Mil- 
ton Goldman.  I  made  an  appointment  to 
see  him  on  the  following  morning.  But, 
when  I  went  to  the  address  he  gave  me,  I 
saw  Paul  Small's  name  on  the  door.  I  was 
new  to  show  business,  but  I  was  not  so 
new  that  I  didn't  know  Mr.  Paul  Small 
was  one  of  the  biggest  agents  in  town.  I 
was  sure  that  some  mistake  had  been 
made,  and  I  told  Tommy  so.  We  turned 
around  and  started  down  the  hall.  But 
Mr.  Goldman  came  out,  saying,  "Why, 
Mrs.  Rettig,  we've  been  expecting  you!" 
Mr.  Goldman  hadn't  told  me  he  was  Mr. 
Small's  representative. 

We  signed  with  Mr.  Small's  office  and  he 
advised  us  to  make  two  motion  pictures 
which  had  been  offered  to  Tommy,  rather 
than  another  stage  play.  The  first  picture, 
"Panic  in  the  Streets,"  for  20th  Century- 
Fox,  was  to  be  shot  in  New  Orleans  and 
they  wanted  Tommy  to  leave  right  away. 
This  was  just  prior  to  Christmas  1950. 
When  we  went  up  to  20th's  New  York 
offices  to  discuss  the  part  with  director 
Elia  Kazan,  I  was  thinking  of  Tommy — 
how  he  hadri't  had  a  Christmas  at  home  in 
two  years.  But,  at  the  same  time,  I  was 
thinking  of  all  the  negotiations  that  Mr. 
Small  had  gone  through  to  set  the  pic- 
tures, and  I  didn't  want  to  upset  him. 
Finally,  my  concern  about  a  Christmas  at 
home  for  Tommy  just  popped  out,  and  I 
told  Mr.  Kazan  how  I  felt.  He  said,  "That's 
the  most  human  thing  I've  heard  a  stage 
mother  say.  Of  course,  Tommy  can  stay 
for  Christmas." 

After  "Panic  in  the  Streets,"  Tommy 
went  to  Hollywood,  where  he  did  M-G-M's 
"Two  Weeks  with  Love" — and  we've  been 
in  Hollywood  ever  since.  Tommy  made  a 
number  of  pictures  before  "Lassie"  came 
along:  "River  of  No  Return,"  "5,000  Fin- 
gers of  Dr.  T.,"  "The  Egyptian,"  and 
many  others. 


NATIONALLY  FAMOUS  BRANDS 


J  NO  SELLING... NO  EXPERIENCE 

Don't  just  wish  for  lovely  things  for 
yourself,  your  family,  or  your  home. 
NOW  get  them  FREE!  AU  the  famous 
brands  you  see  advertised  —  blankets, 
sheets,  pillowcases,  bedspreads,  toast- 
ers, electric  coffee-makers,  pressure 
cookers,  decorator  lamps,  dishes,  silver- 
ware, clocks,  watches,  cameras,  luggage, 
electric  power  tools,  toys,  dolls,  gift- 
ware,  hassocks,  hampers,  clothing  for 
the  entire  family — thousands  of  other 
items,  ALL  CAN  BE  YOURS  FREE! 

f    THERE'S     WHAT     YOU     D  O  If 

Simply  show  the  Grace  Holmes  Catalog  to 
10  friends  and  introduce  them  to  this  35-year- 
old  America's  Greatest  Club  Plan.  Each  one 
selects  $10  worth  of  merchandise  —  and  pays 
only  $1.00  a  week.  Each  receives  a  FREE 
PREMIUM,  too  — 156  to  select  from — 
worth  up  to  $3.00.  Orders  are  shipped  prepaid 
within  24  hours.  Satisfaction  is  guaranteed. 
You,  as  the  Club  Secretary,  receive  a  Free 
Reward  of  merchandise  to  $69.00  value. 
YOU  PAY  NOTHING.  No  Work— It's  Fun 

Thousands  and  thousands  of  Grace  Holmes 
Secretaries  serve  miUions  of  women  in  this 
modern,  neighborly  way.  YOU  CAN,  TOO. 
Takes  only  minutes  per  week.  Once  you  start, 
you'll  never  stop.  You'll  keep  on  receiving 
Free  Rewards — all  the  luxurious  things  you've 
always  wanted.  FAMOUS  NAME  BRANDS 

^  SEND  FOR  FREE  CATALOG— 268-PAGES. 

GRACE  HOLMES  CLUB  PLAN,un..„i6.Nj. 

We  serve  only  EAST  of  the  Mississippi 


500SLABELS 


Introductory  offer!  500  gummed  labels  with 

your  name  or  a  ny  name  and  address  printed  i 

on  each — FREE!    Stick  on  letters,  pcka.,  J 

books, etc.   LIMIT — Isets  percustomer — 2 

include  25c  per  set  for  packing  &  handlixig. 

Western  Stationery    •    Dept.  1267     •    Topeka,  Kansas 


300  Y%  Chllds  Photo 


BIG  DEMAND  for  boys  and  girls  pho- 
tos, ages  6  months  to  18  years.  $300  or 
more  PAID  if  used  for  advertising  pur- 
poses. Send  ONE  small  photo  for  ap- 
proval. Print  CHILD'S  and  MOTHER'S 
name  and  address  on  back.  Returned 
15  days.    NO  OBLIGATION. 

ADVERTISERS  PHOTOS 
6000-HJ  Sunset,  Hallywood  28,  Calif. 


YOU'D  NEVER  KNOW  I  HAP 

ta.-H.|:l>:HH 

(S.  D.)*  As  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  users  have  learned, 
Siroil  tends  to  remove  psoriasis 
crusts  and  scales  on  outer 
layer  of  skin.  Light  applica- 
tions help  control  recurritig 
lesions.  Siroil  doesn't  stain 
clothing  or  bed  linens. 
Offered  on  two-weeks-satis- 
faction-or-money-refunded 
basis.  22  years  of  successful 
results. 

Write    for    free    booklef. 
*S.  D.  means  Skin  Disorder. 


SIROIL 


AT  ALL 
DRUG  STORES 

SEND  FOR  INTERESTING  FREE  BOOKLET  TODAV 


SIROIL  LABORATORIES,  INC. 

oept.  M-79.        Santa    Monica.    Calif. 
Please    send    me    your    free    booklet    on    PSORIASIS. 


ADDRESS- 
CITY 


95 


96 


faCanPhy 


ANY  INSTRUMENT 

.  .  .  even  if  you  don't  know 
a  single  nofe  of  music  now  I 

T  MAGINE!  Even  if  you  never  dreamed  y?"  "°"'^  P'SJ[,sicaf 
J-  you  can  soon  surprise  your  friends  with  your  musical 
ab  lity.  No  special  talent  or  previous  "^VL'^Sp-^lf  ner 
Spencl  just  a  /ew  minutes  a  day-and  only  a  tew  cents  per 
lesson.  Teach  yourself  to  play  P'^nOt^EU  tar  accordion, 
whatever  instrtiment  you  choose.  Make  amazinKiy  rapia 
progress  because  you  start  right  out  playing  real  pieces 
by  note.  No  boring  exercises  to  do.  Over 
900.000  people  have  chosen  this  easy  home 
study  method. 

IVIAIL  COUPON  FOR  FREE  BOOK— Read  the  llM'IIIWadnil 
whole  fascinating  story  of  this  wonderful  ■*Tnt^"»l 
method  in  36-paKe  illustrated  book.  For  ^K  ^-^  Sl^j 
FREE    copv,    mail    coupon    to:    U.    S.    School      RK  1  v  ^ 

of  Music,   Studio  A-2010.    Port  Washington,     t^^       \Wl 
N.Y.    57th    successful   year.  mLM^    .1  i..4 

u.  s.  SCHOOL  OF  music 

studio   A-2010,    Port    Washington,    N.Y. 

Please   send   me  your   36-page   illustrated   Free   Book, 

I'm   interested   in  playing  (name  instrument) 

G  I  do  D  1  do  NOT — have  instrument  now. 

Name "•• 

(please  print) 

Address 


FOR  THOSE  "VERY  SPECIAL"  PEOPLE  ON  YOUR  LIST 
Quality  portrait-photo- 
graphs from  your  own  photo, 
snapshot  or  negative. 
Minimum  order  $1.00 
plus  10^  shipping. 
Free  Friendship  Folio  with 
«■»«-  ,.,... r-r  nnnTn»t<nn  I  $2.00  ofder.  Quick  service 
25  WALLET  PH0T0S?1«»  "  L  money  back  guarantee. 
50  FOR  $2.00    PLUS  }U  SHIPPING 

Friendship  Photos.  Dept.22-F,  fluincy  69,  Mass.  


^  photos 


Add  COLOR  To  Your  TV! 

New  Multichrome  television  screen  filter  adds 
color  to  any  set.  Attach  In  seconds.  Instantly, 
vivid  color  takes  the  place  of  drab  black  and 
white.  Glare  and  eyestrain  are  eliminated. 
Guaranteed.  Only  $2.98.  Send  now.  Specify 
screen  size. 


HOLMES 


Box  581 


COMPANY 

Hollywood  28,  Calif. 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  X  lO  Inches 


67 


on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  length  or  bust 
form,  groups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc..  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  rtoup  picture.  Ordinal  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

SendNoMoney  3for$l 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fadeless.onbeautifai  double-weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios,  544  S.  Main.  Dept.  35-M,  Princeton  J  ilinols 


Work, 

,  Play 
In  Comfort 

Without  Nagging' Backache 

Nagging  backache,  headache,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  folks  who 
eat  and  drink  unwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation . .  .with  that  restless,  uncomfortablefeeling. 

If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  Pills  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mild  diuretic  action 
through  thekidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output 
of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

So  if  nagging  backache  makes  you  feel  dragged- 
out,  miserable... with  restless,  sleepless  nights... 
don't  wait . . .  try  Doan's  Pills . . . get  the  same  happy 
relief  millions  have  enjoyed  for  over  60  years.  Get 
Doan'a  Pills  todayl 


There  were  600  children  who  auditioned 
for  the  part  of  Lassie's  master  in  the 
Lassie  series.  After  a  process  of  elimina- 
tion, Tommy  was  one  of  the  five  or  six 
left.  .  .  .  Then  Tommy  met  Lassie.  They 
took  to  one  another  immediately.  If  you 
have  ever  seen  the  true  love  that  exists 
between  a  boy  and  his  dog,  then  you  know 
what  that  meeting  was  like.  We  say  that 
Lassie  was  the  one  who  did  the  final  cast- 
ing. 

Tommy  went  to  trainer  Rudd  Weather- 
wax's  home  to  spend  a  few  nights  and  get 
acquainted  with  Lassie.  Tommy  didn't  get 
much  sleep.  Lassie  kept  opening  the  bed- 
room door  and  waking  him  in  the  middle 
of  the  night — Lassie  wanted  Tommy  to 
come  out  and  play!  But  soon  they  adjusted 
to  one  another's  waking  and  sleeping  rou- 
tine, and  Lassie  ended  up  spending  nights 
at  the  foot  of  Tommy's  bed. 

People  frequently  ask  me  how  Tommy 
works,  and  whether  or  not  I  work  with 
him  or  coach  him.  I  haven't  touched  or  in- 
terfered in  Tommy's  work  since  the  one 
time  I  tried  it  during  the  first  few  weeks 
of  the  "Annie  Get  Your  Gun"  tour:  I  re- 
member, that  at  a  matinee,  one  of  Tommy's 
lines  didn't  sound  right  to  me.  I  thought 
he  should  get  a  bigger  laugh,  so  I  told 
him,  "Tommy,  tonight  when  you  read  that 
line,  do  it  this  way  .  .  ."  "Okay,  Mom,"  he 
said. 

That  night  he  changed  the  line  as  I  had 
suggested.  There  was  no  laughter  or  ap- 
plause at  all!  When  he  came  off,  the  stage 
manager,  Eddie  Mendelsohn,  asked, 
"Tommy,  what  happened  there?  Why  did 
you  change  that  line?"  Tommy  looked  up 
at  him  with  his  big  eyes  and  said,  "My 
mom  told  me  .  .  ." 

Eddie  turned  to  me,  saying  "Ricki,  if 
you  knew  more  than  the  director,  don't 
you  think  you'd  be  directing  .  .  ."  And 
then,  with  a  laugh,  he  picked  up  a  hair 
brush  and  gave  me  a  whack  across  the 
seat!  I  haven't  interfered  in  Tommy's 
business  since. 

Frequently,  though,  when  Tommy  is 
working,  a  producer  will  say,  "Mrs.  Ret- 


tig,  I'll  tell  you  what  I  want  from  Tommy 
and  you  can  explain  it  to  him."  He  is  sur- 
prised when  I  tell  him  to  work  directly 
with  Tommy,  who  doesn't  need  any  help 
from  me. 

In  fact.  Tommy  is  gaining  a  reputation 
as  "one-take  Rettig."  He  has  his  memory 
to  thank  for  that.  When  he  gets  a  script, 
he  reads  the  whole  story  through  to  set 
the  idea.  Then  he  doesn't  look  at  it  again 
until  he  gets  his  call  sheet,  which  explains 
the  work  to  be  done  the  next  day.  He 
comes  home  from  the  studio,  practices  his 
piano,  and  plays  outside.  "The  following 
morning,  he  gets  up  fifteen  minutes  early 
and  studies  the  day's  work.  This  is  all  the 
preparation  he  needs — and  I  don't  inter- 
fere. 

But  that  doesn't  mean  Tommy  and  I 
don't  share  other  interests.  The  big  mo- 
ment we  both  look  forward  to  is  the  date 
we  have  once  a  week  v/hen  he  "takes 
Mother  out  to  dinner."  We  go  to  Lowery's, 
where  we  sit,  munching  our  prime  ribs, 
and  spend  the  evening  talking  about  his 
girl  friends,  the  parties  he's  been  to,  who's 
holding  whose  hand  in  the  balcony  at  the 
Saturday  matinee,  all  the  latest  "dope" 
(as  he  calls  it) — and  all  sandwiched  in 
with  numerous  searching  questions  and 
advice. 

Tommy  and  I  have  never  built  up  any 
conversational  barriers.  We  talk  about 
everything.  I  think  it's  the  parent's  job 
to  establish  this  precedent,  for  when  chil- 
dren are  very  young  they  all  go  through 
that  questioning  "why?"  stage.  The  ques- 
tioning period  is  the  time  for  parents  to 
cement  a  lasting  relationship  with  their 
children.  The  key  to  this  relationship  is 
one  word — "because" — followed  by  any 
reasonably  sensible  explanation.  But  you 
must  take  the  time  to  explain. 

The  time  is  well  spent.  It  pays  off  later, 
for  you'll  never  lose  touch,  you'll  never 
find  a  sudden  stranger  on  your  hands  when 
the  teen-age  corner  is  turned.  I  know,  for 
it's  paid  off  for  me,  when  during  our  week- 
ly dinner  date  Tommy  and  I  share  every- 
thing from  prime  ribs  to  problems! 


This  Is  Kathy  Godfrey 


(Continued  from  page  66) 
Miss  Godfrey  gets  along,  and  gracefully, 
too,  with  the  aid  of  a  cane.  "Actually,"  she 
says,  "I  use  a  cane  now,  not  because  I 
need  it  for  support  in  walking,  but  be- 
cause my  balance  is  precarious.  This  is  a 
walking  world  and,  with  a  cane,  people 
are  less  likely  to  bump  into  me.  One  bump, 
even  a  baby  bump,  would  send  me 
sprawling! 

"Speaking  of  canes,  this  one  I'm  carry- 
ing today,  snakewood  with  a  silver  handle 
— lovely,  isn't  it? — once  belonged  to 
George  Gershwin.  Mimi  Raymond,  who 
knows  I  love  interesting  canes,  found  it 
for  me  in  Los  Angeles.  It  belonged  to  a 
collector  there.  Glen  Henderson,  who'd 
had  no  idea  of  ever  parting  with  it — but 
let  my  friend  have  it  for  me  because  he 
and  his  wife  love  Arthur  so  much!" 

That  Kathy  walks,  with  or  without  a 
cane,  is  something  in  the  nature  of  a  mira- 
cle, wrought  by  the  faith  of  which  she 
speaks.  "Since  I  have  no  abdominal  mus- 
cles and  no  lower  spinal  muscles,  I  don't 
know  where  the  leverage  comes  from," 
Kathy  laughs,  "neither  does  anyone  else." 

Perhaps  Someone  does?  The  Someone 
who  helped  her  to  help  herself?  For  that — 
by  using  the  positive  rather  than  the  nega- 
tive approach — is  what  Kathy  did:  "What 
I  mean  by  using  the  positive  thought  is 
that  I  did  not  sit  there  and  concentrate,  as 
I'd  been  told  to  do,  on  the  dead  old  rub- 
ber bands  of  the  muscles  hit  by  polio.  In- 


stead, I  concentrated  and  worked  on  one 
or  two  of  the  little  muscles,  in  each  leg 
and  arm,  which  were  alive — with  the  hope 
that  they  might  be  made  to  compensate 
for  the  useless  ones. 

"It  was  a  long,  long  pull,  taking  up  five 
whole  years  of  my  life.  But  gradually, 
from  being  so  helpless  that  people  lifted 
me  out  of  bed  and  put  me  back  again,  I 
found  a  way  to  stand  up.  I'd  experiment 
and  practice  at  night,  after  everyone  had 
gone  to  bed.  I  had,  I  discovered,  a  good 
strong  tendon  left  in  the  back  of  each  leg, 
which  I  hadn't  known  I  had. 

"I  also  discovered  for  myself  that  to 
lock  the  knees  helps  enormously  in  get- 
ting up  out  of  a  bed,  a  chair,  or  a  car. 
Long  after  I  was  walking,  I  used  to  get 
out  of  a  car  backwards — until,  one  night, 
I  went  to  a  big,  swank  party,  all  dressed 
up.  As  the  liveried  butler  opened  the  car 
door  for  me,  I  was  ashamed  to  back  out 
...  so  I  put  my  best  foot  forward  and  fell 
out  and  rolled  in  the  mud.  What  the  ele- 
gant butler  thought,  I'll  never  know.  But 
it  was  a  salutary  experience.  For,  after 
that,  I  kept  on  locking  my  knees  and  nev- 
er again  have  had  to  rise  rear-first! 

"During  my  two"  pregnancies,"  Kathy 
recalls,  "I  never  felt  better  or  was  health- 
ier in  my  life.  After  the  seventh  month,  I 
couldn't  walk.  But  this  was  a  matter  of 
balance  again — the  weight  became  too 
heavy  for  me  to  maintain  my  balance. 

"And    I'd    rather    turn    over   my    entire 


salary  to  a  housekeeper,  because  house- 
work— with  the  exception  of  cooking — is 
something  I  can't  do.  Making  a  bed  knocks 
me  out  for  an  hour.  Even  when  I  get  din- 
ner— which  I  often  do.  and  it's  a  good  one! 
— I  get  it  in  no  time  flat.  You  come  to 
know  how  long  you're  going  to  be  there 
before  you  have  to  sit  down. 

"Other  than  lack  of  balance,  however, 
and  the  need  to  budget  my  energy,  I 
haven't  a  handicap  to  my  name!  Where 
jobs  are  concerned,  I  have  the  strength  of 
ten.  I've  workied  all  my  life,  love  to  work, 
just  have  to  have  a  job — that's  all.  I  have 
a  real  crazy  drive  .  .  .  used  to  write  all 
my  own  scripts  back  home  in  Arizona  and 
I'd  type  three  and  four  hours  a  night,  then 
be  on  mike,  come  the  da\vn.  .  .  . 

"If  ever  I  am  off  the  air,  it  really  em- 
barrasses me.  I  can't  stand  to  be  off  ihe  air 
.  .  .  gives  me  the  feeling  you  get,"  Kathy 
laughs,  "when  you  dream  you're  walking 
down  a  street  without  a  stitch  of  clothes 
on!  If,  between  jobs,  I  run  into  people  who 
ask  me,  'Kathy,  what  are  you  doing  now?' 
— I  say  airily,  'Oh,  I'm  working  on  some- 
thing .  .  .',  dien  change  the  subject. 

"When,  soon  after  we  were  married,  my 
husband  Rip  was  at  the  Mayo  Clinic  in 
Rochester,  Minnesota,  getting  his  degree, 
I  hadn't  been  in  that  town  five  minutes 
before  I  was  calling  the  local  station  to 
find  out  whether  they  had  a  spot  for  a 
woman!  Same  wherever  we  lived — while 
we  were  in  the  process  of  moving,  packing 
and  unpacking,  I  could  hardly  wait. 

"Strangely,  though — since  I  love  it  so 
much— I  never  thought:  I  am  going  to  he 
on  radio.  Not  even  after  Arthur  was  on 
the  air,  did  it  occiix  to  me,  for  myself.  At 
the  age  of  eighteen,  I  was  working  as  a 
hostess  at  Schrafft's  in  New  York.  My 
dream  then  was  to  become  a  dining-room 
hostess  on  a  boat  going  to  South  America 
...  be  a  dining-room  hostess  on  boats, 
period.  As  Arthur  had  'seen  the  world'  in 
the  Navy,  I  would  see  the  world  on  ship- 
board. "Then  poUo  hit  me.  One  day,  soon 
after  I  was  walking,  I  went  to  this  little 
station  in  Englewood,  New  Jersey — and 
here  I  ami  Since  broadcasting  was  the  one 
thing  I  could  do,  after  polio,  the  fact  that 
I  am  here  is  not  only  the  happiest  but  the 
most  fortunate  thing  that  could  have  hap- 
pened to  me.  But  it  did  just  'happen.' 

"In  the  same  year — almost  the  same  day 
— that  poUo  laid  me  low,  Arthur  had  the 
automobile  accident  which  was  to  be  re- 
sponsible for  all  the  surgery  he  has  im- 
dergone. 

"There  are  many  parallels  in  our  Uves, 
Arthur's  Ufe  and  mine.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
all  we  Godfreys  are  alike  .  .  .  my  three 
brothers — Charles,  who  is  a  farmer  in  New 
Jersey;  Bob,  who  composes  songs;  Arthur, 
who  needs  no  biUing — my  sister,  who 
writes  and  hves  in  California;  and  I.  Not 
so  much  in  the  way  we  look,  as  the  way 
we  are.  We're  all  impetuous,  volatile  and 
— although  it  takes  an  awful  lot  to  make 
us  angry — when  we  are  .  .  .  well,  I,  at 
any  rate,  blow  my  top  .  .  .  and  five  min- 
utes later  I'm  singing!  None  of  this  nurs- 
ing a  grudge  for  days  and  days.  Or  even 
for  minutes.  When  my  husband — who  is 
qviiet,  controlled,  very  reserved,  very  kind 
— witnesses  this  sunshine-in-the-wake- 
of-storm  routine  of  mine,  to  this  day,  he 
just  doesn't  beheve  his  eyes  and  ears! 

"We  Godfreys  all  have  much  the  same 
kind  of  independence.  Or  pride.  Because 
we've  been  apairt  for  so  many  years — I  in 
Arizona,  Arthur  here  in  the  East — our  rela- 
tionship has  become  more  that  of  friends, 
I'd  say,  than  of  brother  and  sister.  But, 
good  friends  as  we  are,  I  have  never  pre- 
sumed on  this  friendship,  any  more  than 
I  would  on  any  other.  On  the  air,  out 
West,  I  always  used  the  name  of  Kathy 
Morton — Morton  was  our  mother's  maiden 
name.  And,  whenever  I've  gone  anywhere 


for  a  job,  and  people  have  said — as  they  so 
often  do— 'Now,  Kathy,  why  don't  you  ask 
Arthur?  All  you  have  to  do  is  pick  up  the 
telephone'  ...  I  haven't. 

"However,  I  must  say  one  thing,"  Kathy 
emphasizes.  "When  I — having  always  been 
at  home  and  worked  locally — came  East,  a 
year  ago  last  summer,  to  do  a  network 
show  (not  CBS)  which  didn't  work  out  for 
me  and  wasn't  good  for  me,  Arthur  said  in 
my  defense:    'She  got  all  loused  up!' 

"I  must  also  say,  and  gratefully,  that  it 
was  Arthur  who  arranged  the  CBS  Radio 
network  show  I'm  doing  now  .  .  .  and, 
soon  after  it  started,  gave  me  the  most 
wonderful  plug  on  his  morning  show.  I 
can't  quote  him  exactly — I  have  the  re- 
cording at  home — but  he  mentioned  my 
show  by  name,  gave  the  day  and  time  of 
the  broadcasts,  kidded  about  its  being  'A 
lousy  time,  but  she's  going  to  make  it  a 
good  time.  This  girl,'  he  said,  'can't  go 
anywhere  but  up!'  There  was  gold,"  says 
Kathy,  with  a  smile,  "in  that  thar  plug! 

"We're  'alikes,'  too,  I  think,  in  the  fact 
that  none  of  us  cares  too  much  about 
money,  one  way  or  the  other.  Nice  stuff  to 
have  around.  But — speaking  for  myself,  at 
any  rate — I  was  just  as  happy  when  I 
didn't  have  a  dime!  Working  on  local  sta- 
tions, as  I  often  did,  for  five  dollars  a 
broadcast,    I   didn't   care.   I  was    working. 

"It's  kind  of  all  right,  in  my  book,  not 
to  have  much.  Probably  because  we — who 
as  kids  had  nothing,  and  I  mean  nothing — 
actually  had  everything.  Everything  that 
matters.  We  lived  in  a  store  in  Hasbrouck 
Heights.  (Mother  used  to  soap  the  win- 
dows with  Bon  Ami  so  people  couldn't 
look  in!)  But  Mother,  a  fabulous  and  re- 
markable woman,  always  managed  to  keep 
a  piano  in  the  house,  encouraged  us  chil- 
dren to  play  and  sing  and,  even  when  we 
didn't  have  anything  to  eat,  we  went  to 
hear  the  D'Oyly  Carte  Opera  Company 
whenever  it  came  to  New  York.  How  she 
managed  it,  I  will  never  know. 

Often,  we  couldn't  even  go  to  school — 
especially  when  it  snowed — because  we 
didn't  have  shoes  to  wear.  We  used  to  put 
cardboard  in  the  soles  of  oiir  shoes.  Or  our 
father  did.  I  remember  our  father — an 
itinerant  reporter  by  trade,  a  sort  of  Bar- 
rymore  character,  who  had  to  make  a  joke 
out  of  everything — saying,  as  he  deftly  in- 
serted the  cardboard,  'This  is  a  thing  I 
learned  to  do  in  India!'  During  the  time 
when  Father  was  'laid  off,'  we  often  had 
nothing  to  eat — literally.  Other  times — 
flush  times — we  dined  on  thick  steaks,  ter- 
rapin, turkey,  crepes  suzettes! 

"Mother  came  from  a  very  good  family. 
All  she  could  do — or  had  supposed  she 
would  ever  need  to  do — was  paint  china, 
play  the  piano,  and  speak  French.  What 
I'm  proud  of  is  that,  everything  she  knew 
how  to  do  she  did.  There  wasn't  much  call 
for  her  excellent  French  in  Hasbrouck 
Heights,  but  she  played  the  piano  in  the 
local  movie  theater,  painted  china  and  sold 
it  to  the  neighbors — and  does  wish  that 
Arthur  and  I  would  refrain  from  talking 
about  how  poor  we  were  on  the  air!  When, 
in  the  course  of  a  broadcast,  I  answered  a 
letter  from  a  kid  who  wrote  me  that  she 
lived  in  a  barn — and  was  so  mortified 
about  it — by  saying  that  I'd  lived  in  a 
store  and  was  proud  of  it  .  .  .  'Now,  why 
did  you  have  to  say  that?'  Mother,  now  77, 
asked.  'You  didn't  have  to  say  that!' 

"Mother  adores  the  very  air  Arthur 
breathes,  but  also  takes  exception  to  the 
things  he  sometimes  says  on  the  air.  I 
think  she  has  the  biggest  TV  set  in  the 
world — Arthur's  gift  to  her — and  she  sits 
one  foot  away  from  it,  crocheting  like 
mad,  answering  Arthur  all  the  time  he's 
on  mike.  'Arthur,  no,  sir,'  she'll  say,  cro- 
cheting all  the  while,  'cardboard  in  the 
soles  of  your  shoes!  Indeed  no!  Now,  why 


New  Fifth  Ave.  styles  keep  you  smart  while 
pregnant,  adjust  to  your  figure.  Sizes:  Misses' 
10  to  20,  Junior  9  to  17,  Women's  36  to  44. 

Clever  Jacket-&-Sklrt  Outfit  of  80-square 
Percale!  Crisp  white  braid  outlines 
umbrella-type  gores  at  front  of  Jacket.  Only 
S4.98.  Other  dresses  from  $2.98.  Supporters, 
undies.  Everything  for  the  coming  baby,  too. 

Mail  coupon  for  your  big  FREE  Style  Book; 


il"«S 


ruant  Indianapolis  17, 


Mall  FREE  Maternity  Style  Book  in  plain  wrapper. 

(902) 

Name 


j   Address 


Post  Oilce 


Extra 

Cash 

Fast 


Here's  an  unusual  opportunity  to  earn  extra 
cash  fast  and  often.  We  pay  the  highest  com- 
missions to  thousands  of  part-time  salesmen 
who  help  us  take  orders  for  magazine  sut»> 
scripttons,  all  over  the  country.  Easy!  No  ex- 
perience! Rush  name  and  address  for  FREE 
money-making  information  to:  Macfaddon  Pub- 
lications, 205  East  42  St.,   New  York  i7,  N.Y. 


W/?/TE:  BREVITYPE  INSTITUTE,  SAN  DIEGO,  CALIF.,  DEPT.  1722 

LEARN  THE  WORLD'S  SIMPLEST, 
SPEEDIEST  SHORTHAND   NOW 

FREE— please  send  me  typical  lassons,  details  on  Brevitype— world's 
simplesi,  speediesi  shorthand— first  machine  shorthand  to  eliminate  coding. 
Tell  me  how  I  learn  Breviiype  in  /}  the  lime  through  your  personally  guided 
home-sludy  course.  Shov/  nr^e  how  swilchmg  to  Brevi^pe.  as  hundreds  have, 
prepares  me  lor  security  as  a  stenographer,  secrelary,  court  or  hearing 
reporter  here,  and  abroad,  in  business  or  Civrl  Service— helps  me  increase 
my  salary  50%  to  100%.  Include  costs  and  budget  plans. 


MODERN: 

YPEWRITER  KEYBOARD! 
NO  CODING!      FAST  ABC! 


THE  BREVITYPE 

'   MACHINE,  WHICH 

CARRIES  THIS  SEAL, 

COMES  WITH 

THIS  COURSE 


FR££f 


fSoiSe 


SHE£75 


TOWELS 


Without  spending  a  penny 

you  can  get  such  famous 

merchandise  as  Mirro  Aluminum, 

Bates  Bed  Spreads,  Detecto 

Scales,  Hoover  Cleaners,  Chatham 

Blankets,  Waltham  Watches  and 

hundreds  of  other  things  you've 

always  wfanted. 

Become  an  American  Homes  Club 

Secretary  . . .  it's  easy  . . .  it's  fun 

. . .  there's  nothing  for  you  to  buy 

. . .  nothing  for  you  to  self. 

Write  for  big  color  catalog 


AMERICAN  HOMES  CLUB  PLAN,  DEPT.  IB,  BANGOR,  ME. 
Please  send  FREE  COLOR  CATALOG  at  no  obligation. 

Name 

Street  &  No 

City State 


97 


WOMEN! 


,  -jI;  for  YOW! 

*)'  '  Make  all  the  extra  money 

you  want  in  spare  time,  plus 
lovely  dresses  for  your  per- 
sonal use.  Take  orders  for 
beautiful  Fashion 
.  ^        Frocks,  low  as  $3.98 
each.  We  furnish  over 
100  styles,  colors,  f  ab- 
rics.    You    risk 
nothing.  No  experi- 
ence needed.  Try  it 
—  write  for  free 
1       fabric  samples. 

u  ^       FASHION  FROCKS 

^*^^     ^    ~        Dept.  T-4053  •  Cincinnqti  25,  Ohio 


o>»^^  1000 


PICTURES    OF 
MOVIE     &    TV    ST 


STARS  LJ>^ 


Sensational    Co/fection    Of 
Scenes,    Pictures,     Photos,    Efc. 

One   Exciting  Scene  from 


a  Lotest  Production. 


FREE 


You'll  be  thrilled  with  this 
Stor-Studded  Package.  Send  25c  to 
LUCKY    STARS,    Dept.T-3 

G.P.O.    Box    738,     New    York   1,    N.    Y 


Destroy/H^^T' 


OREVER 


'  Only  by  KILUNG  THE  HAIR  ROOT  can  you  be  sure 
f  UNWANTED  HAIR  Is  GONE  FOREVER.  Brings  relief 
'  and  social  happiness.  Do  not  use  our  method  until 
J  you  have  read  our  instruction  book  carefully  and 
f  learned  to  use  the  MAHLER  METHOD  safely  and 
f  efficiently.  Used  successfully  over  fifty  yeors. 


SE^D  S'^TODAY  for  booklet  0%n 


NEW 
lAOTY  ' 
IR  YOU^ 


MAHLER'S.  INC,      DepL59-N 


PROVIDENCE  15,  R.  I 


TOWELSW 


98 


Most  terrific  towel  value  In  U.  S.l  When  you  buy  10  of 
these  wonderful,  new,  fuU-slzc  towels  made  of  unwoven 
rayon  and  cotton  for  only  Sl.OO,  we'll  send  TEN  MORE 
for  5c-or  TWENTY  In  all  for  $1.05 1  Others  charge  $1.00 
for  FIVE  Towels  I  But  order  TODAY  while  supply  lasts  I 
Make  wonderful  gifts.  Money-back  guarantee. 
TOWEL  SHOP,  Dept.  367,     Box,  881,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

w    w    w   ^    w 

Want  to  Get  Rid  of 
Dark  or  Discolored  Skin. 
^Freckles,  Skin  SpotsTj 

Famous  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  Wliile  You  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  amazing  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream?  NIGHT  PLAN  to  a  whiter,  softer, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 

You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 

at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time- tested  plan  for  over  40  years  — you'll 
love  it's  fast    sure,  longer  lasting  resultsi 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  money  back.    Start  using  it  nowl 
5'^SS**'-'^^'*  *"**  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


I  Lightens  dark 
skin  and  uely 
spall  almost 
ovornlelit. 


on  earth  do  you  say  a  thing  like  that?" 
"We  all  love  to  talk,  we  Godfreys — this 
is  definitely  a  common  denominator — love 
to  sit  up  talking  until  three  in  the  morn- 
ing, as  our  father  enjoyed  doing,  gather- 
ing us  kids  around  him.  He  enjoyed  his 
children,  our  father  did,  as  I  enjoy  mine 
.  .  .  largely,  I  think,  because  I  have  no 
feeling  of  possessiveness  concerning  them. 
Rather,  I  have  the  feeling  I  got,  some 
years  ago,  when  I  read  Kahlil  Gibran's  The 
Prophet,  in  which  he  explained  that  the 
mother  is  simply  'the  channel'  through 
which  children  pass.  If  you  can  give  your 
children  a  part  of  you,  or  they  accept  a 
part  of  you,  that  is  good — but  do  not  try 
to  possess  them.  Or  even  think  you  pos- 
sess them.  They  must  have  their  own  ex- 
periences. Some  mothers  are,  quite  uncon- 
sciously, so  selfish.  They  want  their  chil- 
dren to  go  to  college,  to  be  great,  to  be 
model  citizens,  or  this  or  that,  for  the  sake 
of  their  own  pride.  Our  children  have 
taken  a  little  from  both  of  us,  but  they  be- 
long to  themselves,  not  to  us,  and  they 
know  it.  It  is  because  they  know  it,  I 
think,  that  they  are  both  so  spirited! 

"We  all  love  people,  we  Godfreys  .  .  . 
are  interested  in  and  curious  about  peo- 
ple. It  has  been  said,  by  the  way — I  know, 
I've  heard  it! — that  I  am  not  fond  of  Ar- 
thur. Which  is  not  true.  Not  true  at  all. 
When  you  talk  with  Arthur,  his  eyes  just 
radiate  interest.  He  is  interested  in  you, 
genuinely  interested.  Than,  which,  of 
course,  there  is  nothing  more  flattering. 
How  could  I,  or  anyone,  not  be  fond  of  a 
man  like  this? 

Opeaking  of  loving  people,  and  of  liking 
to  talk,"  Kathy  smiles,  "reminds  me  of 
the  piece  of  advice  Arthur  gave  me  when 
I  first  went  on  the  air.  'You  and  I  haven't 
talent,'  he  said.  'We  can't  sing.  We  can't 
dance.  We  can't  emote.  The  one  thing  we 
have:  We  like  people.  So  we  should  talk 
to  people.  About  the  things  that  interest 
us.  Just  he  ourselves,  that's  all.'  I  have 
followed  Arthur's  advice,  and  so — it  is  to- 
tally unnecessary  to  add — has  he! 

"On  my  CBS  show,  a  few  weeks  ago,  I 
sang,"  Kathy  laughs.  "First  time  in  my 
life  I've  ever  sung  on  the  air,  for  the  very 
good  reason  that — as  Arthur  pointed  out — 
I  can't  sing!  But,  with  this  one  exception, 
talking  with  people  has  always  been  my 
show.  All  of  it.  In  the  West,  I  did  three  TV 
shows  a  week  and  one  on  radio.  One  of 
the  TV  programs  was  Swap  Shop,  which 
I  loved.  I  once  swapped  a  car  for  a  plane, 
a  trained  baby  skunk  for  a  rifle,  a  bed- 
spread for  a  mattress.  It  was  all  warm  and 
folksy  and  fun. 

"I  was  all  over  the  board  out  there," 
Kathy  says.  "Was  well  sponsored,  too.  But 
I'd  gone  as  far  as  I  could  go  there  and, 
when  you  can't  go  forward,  you  must  go 
backward — which  is  not  where  I  want  to 
go!  And — thanks  to  CBS — am  not  going. 
But,  because  of  this  real  crazy  drive  I 
have,  my  dream  now  is  to  do  many  shows 
at  CBS,  five  days  a  week,  and  simulcast, 
too — on  TV,  as  well  as  radio. 

"Another  dream  of  mine  is  to  have  a  cab 
drivers'  show — featuring  the  New  York 
taxicab  drivers,  who  know  everything. 
One  argument  handed  me  against  having 
such  a  show  as  I  propose  is  that  the  cab 
drivers  might  be  rude,  possibly  even  pro- 
fane. I  doubt  it.  If  they  had  a  man  as  em- 
cee, perhaps.  But  not  with  me.  Since  get- 
ting out  of  cabs  is  still  a  bit  difficult  for 
me,  I  know  how  kind  and  courteous  these 
drivers  are;  they've  been  wonderful  to  me. 

"I  want  a  panel  of  three  cab  drivers," 
Kathy  says,  "and  a  guest.  A  girl  singer, 
say,  just  beginning  her  career,  about 
whose  chances  I  would  ask  the  panel. 
They  would  know.  Or  a  New  Yorker  who 
would  say,  'Kathy,  I've  been  driving  with 
O'MuUigan    for    years,    and    his    hobbies 


are.  .  .  .'  Which  could  be  fascinating,  for 
their  hobbies  range  from  shooting  pool  to 
studying  the  abstract  sciences  to  suggest- 
ing cures  for  the  current  sickness  called 
juvenile  delinquency.  .  .  .  They  know 
everything,  I  tell  you,  about  everything.  I 
think  I  could  have  a  really  different,  fresh 
show,  with  such  a  panel.  Someday,"  says 
Miss  Kathy,  and  the  chin  is  firm,  "I  am 
going  to  get  a  sponsor,  all  by  myself!" 

Career-minded  as  she  is,  however — with 
the  "real  crazy  drive"  of  which  she  speaks 
— feminine  is  a  descriptive  word  for 
Kathy.  None  more  so. 

Clothes,  for  instance:  "I'm  not  the 
glamour-puss  type  with  the  plunging 
neckline  and  the  dripping  earrings,  but 
clothes,"  beams  Kathy,  "I  do  love  'em! 
Even  though  I  don't  seem  to  know  how  to 
buy  properly,  never  have  the  right  things 
to  take  with  me  for  weekends,  shoes  never 
match  purse,  purse  never  matches  shoes — 
know  what  I  mean?  What  I  do  now,  to 
beat  the  rap,  is  buy  three  sets,  in  different 
colors,  of  anything  I  see  that  I  like.  It 
would  be  easier  for  me  if  I  wore  slacks 
and  shorts.  But,  since  they  don't  look  well 
on  me,  I  never  do.  At  home,  I  always  wear 
robes  around  the  house  and  the  pool.  A 
Chinese  robe.  A  nylon  robe.  Of  robes  for 
weekends,"  she  laughs,  "I  have  a-plenty! 

"When  it  comes  to  jewelry,  I  like  Indian 
jewelry  made  by  Johuny  Bonnell,  by  our 
own  American  Indians — I  have  some  love- 
ly silver  bracelets.  Or  I  like  jewelry  which 
means  something,  such  as  this  gold  neck- 
lace I'm  wearing — a  Gemini  medallion 
vvhich  was  given  me  because  June,  my 
birth  month,  is  Gemini.  In  the  perfume 
department,  Guerlain's  Blue  Hour  is  the 
only  perfume  I  ever  use,  and  have  used 
for  years  and  years." 

On  Sutton  Place  in  New  York,  Kathy 
has  rented  an  apartment  which  she  was  in 
process  of  furnishing,  at  the  time  we 
talked.  "Pot  by  pan,"  she  laughed,  "and 
chair  by  chair!"  Under  the  same  roof,  TV's 
Faye  Emerson  and  Skitch  Henderson,  liie 
Red  Buttons  and  Bobby  Sherwood  also : 
nest  when  work  keeps  them  in  town. 

"Cheaper     to     furnish     an     apartment," ; 
Kathy   observes,   "than   to   rent   one   fur-  j 
nished.   As  for  the  other  alternative,  a  hotel 
— I  don't  like  living  in  a  hotel.  I  like  to  be  ; 
able  to  fix  a  little  tray,  do  it  myself,  eat  in  ■ 
bed  and  watch  TV.  I  fly  back  West  when  I  j 
can,  about  once  a  month.  My  son  Robin 
and  I  went  to  Bermuda  this  year  for  his 
spring  vacation." 

Happily,  Kathy  has  no  problem  in  the 
career-versus-home-and-family  category. 
Of  her  husband,  she  says:  "Rip's  always 
loved  it — the  idea  of  my  having  a  career. 
The  kids  get  a  kick  out  of  it,  too.  When, 
after  several  months  of  negotiation,  my 
CBS  show  finally  jelled,  Robin  sighed:  'I 
was  getting  worried — thought  you'd  wind 
up  on  Life  Begins  At  801' 

"I've  always  worked,"  says  Kathy.  "I've 
been  on  the  air  close  to  sixteen  years  now. 
And,  since  a  doctor's  life  is  very  busy — 
Rip  is  at  the  hospital  at  6  A.M.  and,  when 
he's  home,  he  has  to  sleep — it's  real  satis- 
fying for  me  to  have  work  to  do.  Much 
better  than  just  sitting  beside  that  pool," 
Kathy  laughs.  "I  can  do  that  when  I  am 
eighty! 

"I  think  I've  been  so  lucky,  all  my  life, 
to  meet  all  kinds  of  people,  talk  with  them, 
live  in  every  sort  of  place  .  .  .  and  then  | 
to  be  in  the  medium  through  which  I  can 
give  out  the  knowledge  of  people  I've 
gained  and  the  love  I  feel  for  them.  May- 
be this  is  what  I  am  supposed  to  do.  I 
think  it  is.  I  know  it  is. 

"I  do  believe  that  things  work  them- 
selves out — no  matter  what  the  odds 
against  you — if  you  really  try,  without 
shoving,  pushing,  trampling  on  or  hurting^ 
others  on  your  way.  I  do  believe  this,' 
says  Kathy  Godfrey.    "I  really  do." 


Something  for  Mother 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
jf  their  own.  All  have  become  fine  men. 
\  "But  these  teen-age  gangs  I  read  about 
Aow!"  Steve  clenches  his  fists  with  the 
Tustration  of  a  man  who  doesn't  know 
what  to  swing  at  first.  "It  isn't  the  neigh- 
borhood that's  to  blame,  you  know.  Basic- 
dly,  it's  the  person  himself." 

And,  if  Steve  Lawrence  feels  like  the 
'uckiest  guy  in  the  world  these  days,  it 
sn't  because  he's  one  of  the  most  famous, 
)ne  of  the  most  successful  twenty-year- 
ilds  in  the  country.  It's  because  of  his 
nother  and  father,  who  made  him  the  kind 
)f  person  he  is.  He  can  never  thank  his 
jarents  enough  for  the  love  and  under- 
standing they  gave  him  as  a  child — and 
;till  give  him.  And  he  can  never  thank 
hem  enough  for  the  discipline.  "When  my 
nother  and  father  said  no,  I  couldn't  go 
o  a  movie,"  he  recalls,  "they  meant  no — 
ind  I  didn't  go." 

But  Steve's  parents  are  not  only  what 
le  calls  "strong  people."  they  are  deeply 
•eligious  as  well — in  their  home,  as  well  as 
_  n  their  church.  And  they  instilled  in  their 
)wn  children  the  same  love  of  God  and 
he  good  life,  so  that,  even  today,  with  a 
ife  complicated  by  a  late -evening  TV 
ihow.  recording  dates  and  night-club  ap- 
pearances, Steve  still  keeps  up  his  reUgi- 
)us  observances. 

,  "It's  good  for  me,"  he  says.  And  he  is 
genuinely  sorry  for  all  the  other  twenty- 
/ear-olds  who  never  found  out  that  it 
.-•ould  be  good  for  them,  too.  "So  many  of 
hem  don't  know  what  the  inside  of  a 
louse  of  worship  looks  like — or  what  it 
eels  like  to  say  a  couple  of  prayers.  .  .  . 

"Naturally,"  Steve  observes,  "everyone 
eels  that  his  mother  and  father  are  the 
Dest  in  the  world."  And,  having  allowed 
/ou  the  right  to  feel  the  same  way  about 
iour  parents,  he  goes  on  about  his   own. 

The  Leibowitzes  were  poor,  hard-work- 
ng  people — "but  there  was  always  bread 
)n  the  table,"  and  they  were  determined 
hat  their  children  would  all  have  a  good 
iducation.  Max,  Steve's  father,  still  works 
jiS  a  decorator  and  painter;  and,  on  Sab- 
oaths  and  Holy  Days,  he  still  sings  as  a 
:antor  in  the  synagogue.  As  for  Anna, 
Steve's  mother.  .  .  .  "Well,  do  you  remem- 
3er  the  Goldbergs  on  radio  and  television? 
My  mother's  Mrs.  Goldberg  to  the  life." 
,    Steve  is  referring  not  only  to  her  ap- 


pearance, but  to  the  watchful,  loving  eye 
she  keeps  on  her  family.  And  then  there 
are  her  good-humored  attempts  to  keep 
up  with  the  vernacular  of  the  day.  "She 
tries  to  be  'very  hip,'  "  Steve  points  out, 
"and  everything's  usually  'all  rightie'  with 
her." 

Of  the  four  Leibowitz  children — three 
boys  and  a  girl — Sidney,  born  July  8, 
1935,  is  the  youngest.  And,  although  Sid- 
nej'  grew  up  to  become  Steve  Lawrence, 
he  claims  his  brother  Bernie  is  "the  real 
singer  of  the  family."  Both  boys  began 
singing  when  they  were  seven  or  eight,  but 
Bernie  was  four  years  older.  By  the  time 
Steve  was  ready  to  join  his  father's  choir, 
his  brother  was  soloist.  But  then  Bernie's 
voice  started  changing  and  Steve  took  over. 
Then,  in  turn,  Steve's  voice  started  chang- 
ing and  his  father  urged  him  to  stop  sing- 
ing lest  he  strain  it. 

Between  the  ages  of  eleven  and  fourteen, 
Steve  rested  his  voice.  The  love  of  music 
was  too  strong,  however,  not  to  have  some 
outlet,  so  he  learned  to  play  the  piano  and 
saxophone.  And  that's  how  he  happened 
to  be  the  accompanist  for  Bernie  in  his 
first   professional   engagement. 

"It  was  at  the  old  Riviera  night  club," 
Steve  recalls.  "It's  no  longer  there,  but  it 
used  to  be  on  Forty-fourth  Street,  right 
opposite  the  Hudson  Theater  where  we 
now  do  the  Steve  Allen  show.  They  had 
an  amateur  night — first  prize  five  dollars, 
second  prize  three  dollars,  and  two  third 
prizes  of  two  dollars.  Bernie  was  eighteen 
or  nineteen  at  the  time,  and  we  had  al- 
ready started  to  work  up  a  singing  act  to- 
gether. But,  that  night,  there  were  three 
thousand  acts — and  every  one  of  them 
sang.  To  make  matters  worse,  there  were 
sailors  at  the  bar — and  one  of  the  singers 
was  a  beautiful  blonde.  She  had  no  voice, 
but  she  did  have  a  low-cut  gown  and  a 
way  of  over-breathing  when  she  sang. 
Well,  she  won  first  prize.  But  we  won 
second! 

"I  can  remember  that  we  didn't  get 
home  till  about  two-thirty  in  the  morning, 
and  I  had  fallen  asleep  on  my  brother's 
shoulder  in  the  subway.  But  we  were  so 
proud  of  the  three  dollars  we  had  won 
that  we  put  it  in  the  icebox  for  mother  to 
find  in  the  morning." 

It  started  as  a  gag — a  happy  surprise 
for  Mother — but  it  became  a  family  tra- 


r 


$1,000.00  REWARD 


I 


...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
crinninals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every    Wednesday   Night   on  MUTUAL   Stations 


Don't  miss  "THE  CRIME  THAT  SHOCKED  GEORGIA"— the 
complete  story  of  the  kidnap-murder  of  Patricia  Ann  Cook  revealed 
in   October  TRUE   DETECTIVE   MAGAZINE  at   newsstands   now. 


Genuine  LUCKY  STARFISH 


Surrounded  by  exquisite 
real  sea  shells  and  set 
into  our  own  lovely  re- 
production of  an  antique 
watchcase.  See-thru  un- 
breakable crystal  front 
and  back!  You'll  marvel 
at  the  originality  of  this 
genuine  starfish!  Watch- 
case  and  chain  exqui- 
sitely finished.  A  real 
conversation    piece! 

IVIassive   Bracelet  $1.98 
Necklace  to  IVIatch  1.98 
Earrings  to   Match  1.98 
Ensemble  of  All 
3    Pieces    5.00 


Foreign  Coin  Bracelet 


Seven  genuine  foreign  coins 
mounted  on  a  massive  link 
bracelet.  The  rage  in  Holly- 
w(ood  now/! 

MASSIVE   BRACELET  SI .98 
NECKLACE  TO  MATCH  1.98 
EARRINGS  TO  MATCH  1.98 
ENSEMBLE  OF  ALL 
3  PIECES 5.00 


RUSH  ORDER  TODAY 


Mercury  Jewelry   Co.  Dept.   WG-1055 

112  Mam  St.,  Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  the  items  checked  below.  I 

enclose  $ (No  C.O.D.) 

LUCKY  STARFISH 

D  Bracelet  D  Necklace  D  Earrings  D  Set 

FOREIGN  COINS 

n  Bracelet  Q  Necklace  Q  Earrings  D  Set 

Name 


Please   Print 


Street 

City State 

Prices  include  Federal  Tax — Postage  Prepaid 


ENLARGEMENT 

^  o/youfFauofrfe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOUYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
.^  ity  5  X  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
^^  shot,  photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing,  and  get  our  Baigain 
IM]  .iiLLLLU  ^^'^  for  having  your  enlarge- 
<^^'-'"-'*'""^"  ment  beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10^  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-118 

7021    Santa   Monica   Blvd.,   Hollywood   38,   Calif. 


ENIOY  A  PERMANENT, 
KBfG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 


S^PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.    No  age  limit. 


FOR    FREE    LESSON    and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


I    Post   Graduate   Hospital  j 

I    School  of  Nursing  ! 

9D105  Auditorium  BIdg.  I 

I   Chicago  5,  Illinois  |         j 

I   Name j         V 

I  I         n 

I   Address i 

I   City Stote 

|_  . 


Callouses,  Tenderness,  Pain, 
Burning  at  Ball  of  Foot? 


Ball-o-foot 

Cushion 


VOOPSOVER^OE 

QUICK  RELIEF 
BEYOND  BELIEF! 

Made  of  soft  LATEX 
FOAM  and  NYLON    \ 

You  Actually  WALK 
ON  CUSHIONS! 

It's  entirely  NEW!  Never  before  anything  like  It 
for  relieving  painful  callouses,  tenderness,  burning 
at  ball  of  foot!  The  cushion — not  you — absorbs 
shock  of  each  step.  Dr.  SchoU's  BALL-O-FOOT 
Cushion  loops  over  toe.  No  adhesive.  Flesh  color. 
Washable.  Worn  invisibly.  $1.00  pair  at  Drug,  Shoe, 
Dept;,  5-10^  Stores  and  Dr.  SchoU's  Foot  Comfort* 
Shops.  If  not  obtainable  locally,  order  direct,  enclos- 
ing $1.00  and  state  if  for  woman  or  man. 
DR.  SCHGLL'S,  INC.,  Dept.  57B,  Chicago  10,  lU. 

SHORTHAND  in 

Famous  SPEEDWRITING  Shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols;  no  machines. 
Uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn,  write,  trans- 
cribe. Lowest  cost,  300,000  taught  by 
mail.  Typing  available.  33rd  Year.  Write 
for  FREE  booklet  to: 

•z^  Dept.    310-5  / 


,iF<«'"HIGHSCHOOL;oW 


)  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 1 

ling  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly* 

\  instructors:  standard  texts.  Full  credit  forV 

previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded, I 

Write  now  for  FREE  catalog  I  ] 

J  WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-28    J 

I  2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chiiago  14,  Illinois/ 


'How  to  Make  Money  with 
/^^^  Simple  Cartoons'' 


ARTOONISTS-  EXCHANGE 
Dept.  5910  Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio 

MAKE    $50— $75— $100    EXTRA    MONEY 

Sell   New  TALL 
Greeting  Cards 


Iff^EL^IJ  ^Vl^  Show  friends  amazing  value  Christmas, 

M^^^la^ftfi  »  All  Occasion  assortments,  novelties,  per. 

lBBbkh.^Kllu^  60nal    wedding    invitations    &   announce 

V^^K^HE^SI^Hr  ments.    Profits    to    $1.00    a   box.    Bonus. 

wf?!^l^..:efma=  Write  today  for  Free  Trial  oufit  of  Fea- 

eViM     r-lbn  ture  boxes  on  approval,    77  FREE  Sam. 

Assortmeht  plesPersonal  Christmas  Cards,  Stationery, 

I'    ^„^,    .     n  ♦.. — I  NEW  ENGLAND  ART  PUBLISHERS 

|FREE48.pageCata.og|      ^^^^    AbingfOR     1021,    MaSS. 


'""fVo'm'PSORIASIS 


(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 

i^oeRmoiL 


SEE  FOR  YOURSELF 
no  matter  how  long  you 
have  suffered.  Write  for 
,  FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 
,  and  DERMOIL  with 
1  actual  "before — after" 
^  photo  record  of  results. 


Setu/ffvr 
\GENEROUS 

^?^TIliAL 


100 


Don't  be  embarrassed 

with  Psoriasis,  the  ugly, 

scaly  skin  disease.   Try     Vi,Iox\ft\. 

non. staining    DERIVIOIL. 

Amar.ing  results  reported 

lor  over  22  years!  Many 

grateful    users    report   the ' 

scaly  red  patchea  on  body 

or  pcalp  graflually  disappeared  and  they^ 

again  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  smooth  clear  ekln.  DERMOIL 

formula  ifl  uped    by    many  doctors.    Must   give  definite 

benefit  or  your  money  back.  Make  our  famous  "One  .Spot 

Test"!  SEND   10?  for  trial  bottle.  DERMOIL  sold  at 

Liggett  and  Walgreen  and   other   leading   Drug  Stores. 

Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.  1204 

Box    3925    Strathmoor     Station,     Detroit    27,     Mich. 


dition.  The  Leibowitzes  now  have  an  elec- 
tric refrigerator,  but  Steve  still  remembers 
and  hides  part  of  each  paycheck — under 
the  butter  or  behind  the  eggs — for  his 
mother  to  find  in  the  morning. 

Steve  also  teamed  up  with  his  brother 
in  writing  songs.  They  haunted  the  offices 
of  the  music  publishers  with  such  per- 
sistency that  they  became  known  in  Tin 
Pan  Alley  as  "Moke  and  Poke."  ("Every 
day,"  Steve  says,  "they'd  kick  us  out.  'We 
like  you,'  they'd  tell  us,  'we  just  don't  like 
your  songs.' ") 

At  fourteen,  however,  Steve's  voice  was 
all  baritone — and  he  more  than  made  up 
for  the  rest  he  had  given  it.  At  Thomas 
Jefferson  High  School,  he  sang  in  the  Glee 
Club,  the  Mixed  Chorus,  the  Boys'  Chorus, 
the  Boys'  Quartet,  as  well  as  for  the  Par- 
ent-Teacher's Association  and  the  General 
Organization  when  they  staged  money- 
raising  affairs. 

"I  also  played  third  alto  sax  in  the  Con- 
cert Band,"  he  adds,  then  suddenly  smiles 
— a  bit  sheepishly.  "I  was  always  being 
yanked  out  of  class  to  rehearse  or  per- 
form. My  English  and  history  teachers 
used  to  burn." 

They  were  to  have  even  more  reason 
to  burn,  for,  although  Steve  kept  up  with 
his  studies,  he  was  soon  asking  to  be  ex- 
cused to  accept  professional  engagements 
outside  the  school.  They  would  send  him 
to  the  principal,  who  gave  his  consent 
with  just  one  condition:  "When  you're 
out  there,  don't  forget — mention  Jefferson 
High." 

During  his  spare  time,  whenever  that 
might  be,  Steve  began  haunting  the  radio 
and  TV  stations  in  near-by  Manhattan, 
hoping  for  a  break.  He  applied  for  an 
audition  on  Arthur  Godfrey's  Talent 
Scouts  but  was  rejected  twice.  However, 
on  his  third  try — in  January,  1952 — he  was 
finally  accepted.  An  inspired  rendition  of 
"Domino"  won  him  top  honors  and  the 
chance  to  appear  on  Godfrey's  radio  and 
TV  shows  for  a  full  week. 

The  radio  show  was  a  cinch,  but  tele- 
vision presented  a  problem  for  a  young 
singer  with  only  one  blue  serge  suit  to 
his  name.  But,  thanks  to  his  brother  and 
to  his  classmates  at  Jefferson  High — who 
were  proud  to  see  their  clothes  on  TV — 
Steve  was  able  to  wear  a  different  suit 
every  day  he  appeared  on  the  Godfrey 
show. 

From  this  point  on,  things  happened 
quickly.  King  Records  signed  Steve  to  a 
recording  contract,  and  soon  he  gained 
national  recognition  with  his  hit  recording 
of  "Poinciana."  Then  the  offers  started 
pouring  in — one  hundred  dollars  for  a 
weekend,  four  hundred  dollars  for  a  week's 
engagement.  .  .  . 

"For  a  kid  of  sixteen,"  Steve  says,  "this 
was  fabulous!  And  you  can  imagine  what 
it  meant  to  me.  My  mother  and  dad  had 
worked  hard  all  their  lives.  Here  was  my 
chance  to  do  something  for  them.  But  I 
was  only  at  the  end  of  the  seventh  term 
at  school.  I  still  had  six  months  to  go  to 
graduate.  And  mother,  of  course,  had  her 
heart  set  on  my  getting  an  education. 

"  'But,  Ma,'  I  told  her,  'I  don't  need  a 
diploma  to  sing!' "  She  suggested  that  we 
talk  it  over  with  some  of  his  teachers 
and  the  principal  at  school.  Steve  went  to 
them  and  asked  their  advice.  "Here  I'm 
getting  offers  to  make  crazy  money,"  he 
told  them.  "What  should  I  do?" 

It  was  the  principal  who  solved  the  prob- 
lem. "You  don't  need  a  diploma,"  he  said, 
"unless  you're  going  to  college.  And  if  you 


want  to  sing,  what's  college?  Four  yeaii 
out  of  your  life.  It  isn't  as  if  you  wantec 
to  be  a  doctor,  lawyer,  psychiatrist  oi 
engineer." 

So  he  gave  Steve  a  leave  of  absence  ant 
told  him  he  could  come  back  any  time  tc 
make  up  the  six  months  he  still  needed 
to  graduate.  Thus  far,  however,  Steve  ha; 
been  too  busy.  After  making  a  guest  ap- 
pearance on  The  Steve  Allen  Show,  he 
was  called  back  to  audition  for  a  perma- 
nent spot  on  the  program.  Competinj 
against  a  score  or  more  of  young  hope- 
fuls and  "name"  artists,  Steve  won  out.  Ir 
July,  1953,  he  made  his  debut  as  a  regu- 
lar on  the  show,  and,  last  year,  he  wa; 
signed  to  a  long-term  recording  contract  I 
by  Coral  Records.  This  year,  he  has  i 
record  in  "the  top  ten" — "Besame  Mucho/ 
a  duet  with  his  favorite  singer,  Eydie 
Gorme,  who  is  also  on  Tonight. 

"But,  one  of  these  days,"  Steve  vowsj 
"I'm  going  to  take  six  months  off  and  get 
my  high  school  diploma  so  I  can  say: 
'Here,  Ma' — and  then  hand  it  to  her.  In 
the  meantime  .  .  .  well,  it's  an  education 
and  an  experience,  pulling  into  Aurora, 
Ohio,  with  two  suitcases  and  an  overcoat, 
when  you're  just  sixteen.  And  listening  to 
Steve  Allen  is  Ein  education,  too.  When- 
ever I'm  not  on,  I  sit  behind  the  cameras 
watching  him — the  way  he  can  handle  all 
kinds  of  people,  with  the  same  respect  and 
interest.  He's  one  of  the  greatest!" 

But  while  Steve  is  improving  his  mind, 
taking  in  the  "intelligent  conversation"  of 
such  guests  on  the  show  as  Carl  Sandburg 
and  Albert  Schweitzer,  he  is  careful  when 
he  returns  to  Brooklyn  to  "throw  in  the 
dese  and  dose" — so  the  old  gang  knows 
he's  still  one  of  them.  For,  outside  of  the^ 
fact  that  Steve  is  now  a  celebrity,  and  his 
brothers  and  sister  are  now  married,  life 
has  gone  on  pretty  much  the  same.  Until 
very  recently,  the  Leibowitzes  lived  in  the 
same  apartment  house  they  had  occupied 
ever  since  Steve  was  two. 

"Until  I'm  married,"  Steve  says,  "I 
wouldn't  consider  living  away  from  my 
parents.  I'm  still  the  baby  of  the  family." 
He  shakes  his  head  with  a  helpless  grin. 
"  'Even  when  you're  forty-five,"  my  mother 
says,  'you'll  still  be  the  baby  of  the 
family.' " 

Even  the  neighborhood  is  still  the  same, 

"I  drive  a  1953  Bel-Air,"  Steve  explains, 
"and,  when  my  friends  see  me  coming  in 
it,  they'll  yell  out:  'So  how  come  you're 
driving  your  old  car?  What's  the  matter 
you  ain't  got  a  Cadillac?'  Or:  'So  how 
come  you  don't  take  your  mother  out  to 
Westchester  and  get  her  a  mansion?' " 

For  Steve,  the  answer  is  simple.  He  and 
his  family  don't  want  high-priced  cars  or 
fancy  mansions.  Sure,  his  father  always 
dreamed  of  a  place  with  a  lawn  and  his 
mother  wanted  space  for  raising  flowers. 
"I've  always  hoped,"  says  Steve,  "that,  in 
their  lifetime,  I  could  get  them  that  house 
with  a  basement  they  never  had.  Most  of 
all,  a  backyard  with  grass!  But  everything 
they've  lived  for  has  been  in  this  area  of 
Brooklyn.  .  .  ." 

So  Steve  has  made  the  first  payments  ^ 
on  a  comfortable  home,  with  a  little  plot  of 
ground,  in  near-by  Bayside.  It's  within 
easy  reach  of  the  old  neighborhood,  the 
place  they  can  never  really  forget.  For 
that's  where  Steve  first  dared  to  dream  o|' 
all  the  things  he  might  do  for  his  family,' 
And  that's  where  he  proved  that  su  " 
dreams  can  come  true —  that  a  young  mi 
with  talent  and  determination  can  even' 
"put   a   house   in   Mother's   refrigerator!" 


Garry's  Golden  Rule 


(Continued  from  page  36) 
about   the   number   of  people   killed   each 
>   year  by  automobile  accidents,  and  I  urged 
.   listeners  to  drive  carefully,  liien  I  discov- 
^    ered  that  there  were  still  three  minutes  to 
f   fill  before  the  program  went  off  the  air. 
(       "So,  without  actually  having  planned  it, 
;  I  remarked  on  the  number  of  people  who 
were  killed  every  year  in  ways  other  than 
,   by   automobile.  I  commented   on  the  fact 
'   that  many  people  were  killed  by  the  un- 
kind acts  and  unkind  words  of  other  peo- 
ple. And  I  pointed  out  that  those  deaths 
,   weren't  the  quick,  sudden  deaths  on  the 
.   highway,    but    slow,    painful    deaths    that 
happened  little  by  little.  And  I  ended  up 
.   that   little   talk   with   the   suggestion   that 
1  the  listeners  be  kind  to  each  other. 

"You   know,   the   mail  response  to   that 

;   appeal  was  really  something.   I  don't  re- 

:  member  how  many  letters  we  got,  but  I 

know  it  was  a  lot.  And  they  all  said  that 

;   listeners   liked   the  idea   I   had   expressed. 

:    Because  of  that  response,  I  decided  to  give 

i   the  same  idea  at  the  end  of  every  show  I 

did.  And  that's  how  it  started." 

Garry  continued  using  that  closing  line 

.   for  some  time.  "But  then,"  he  says,  "I  felt 

;   I  had  come  to  give  the  line  mechanically. 

And    I    felt    that,    if    this    were    the    case, 

,   maybe    I    ought    to    stop    using    it.    So    I 

dropped  it  from  the  show. 

"Right  away,  we  got  lots  and  lots  of  let- 

•  ters  from  the  folks  out  there.  And  the  let- 

•  ters  pointed  out  to  me  how  much  the 
thought  had  come  to  mean  to  listeners  and 
viewers,  how  it  had  served  as  a  daily  re- 
minder   to    them    in    their    relations    with 

•  other  people  and,  in  many  cases,  had  ac- 

■  tually  changed  their  lives. 

I       "Well,    of    course,    that    showed    me    it 

;  wasn't  just  an  empty  phrase,  but  some- 
thing which  meant  a  good  deal  to  a  great 
many  people.  So,  of  course,  I  put  it  back 
on  the  show.  It's  been  the  closing  of  every 
show  of  mine  since  then.  And  I  don't  say 

I  it  mechanically,  either. 

'       "You    know,"    Garry    continues,    "even 

■  today,  we  receive  letters  from  people  tell- 
ing us  how  much  the  line  means  to  them. 
We  hear  from  viewers  who  tell  us  minis- 
ters use  the  thought  as  a  text  for  ser- 
mons, too.  That  means  a  lot  to  us,  as  you 
can  imagine.  After  all,  there's  nothing  new 
in  the  idea  expressed  by  the  line.  It's  sim- 
ply another  way  of  saying  the  Golden 
Rule." 

ijrarry   has   been   living   by    that   precept 
for  a  long  time,  both  in  his  professional 

.  and  his  private  life.  In  fact,  many  years 
ago,  he  was  suspended  from  a  high  school 
in    Baltimore    because    of    an    incident    in 

I   which  he  attempted  to  be  kind  to  someone. 

,  A  teacher  of  one  of  Garry's  classes  was 
fired  by  the  school  board.  Garry  felt  the 
teacher  was  a  good  one  and  that  the  firing 
had  been  \infair  to  the  teacher.  So,  noth- 
ing loath,  he  v*nrote  a  letter  to  the  editor 
of  one  of  the  Baltimore  newspapers  about 
the  episode.  The  principal  of  the  high 
school,  after  talking  to  Garry  and  ex- 
plaining to  him  why  it  would  have  been 
better  if  he  had  gone  directly  to  the  prin- 

,    cipal  rather  than  to  the  newspaper,  sus- 

I  pended  Garry  from  classes  for  two  weeks. 
The  two,  incidentally,  are  still  fast  friends. 
Looking  back  on  the  incident  now, 
Garry  feels  his  action  was  not  wise  at  all 
and  that  he  should  not  have  done  what  he 
did.  He  dislikes  discussing  the  episode, 
even  to  this  day.  But  the  fact  remains  that 
what  he  did,  be  it  right  or  wrong,  he  did 
solely  for  the  pxirpose  of  helping  the 
teacher  who  had  been  fired. 

Since  that  time,  Garry  has  done  many 
kind  things.  On  several  occasions,  how- 
ever, he  has  done  things  which  were  in- 
tended to  be  kind  but  which,  for  one  rea- 


son or  another,  were  misunderstood  or 
have  actually  hurt  him.  One  such  incident 
happened,  not  too  long  ago,  in  the  elevator 
of  the  hotel  where  he  spends  Wednesday, 
night,  when  he  does  his  evening  show,  I've 
Got  A  Secret. 

"One  evening,"  Gary  recalls,  "I  got  on 
the  elevator,  and  on  it  was  one  of  the  most 
beautiful  women  I've  ever  seen.  Her  face 
was  beautiful.  Her  clothes  were  perfect. 
She  was  just  a  dream.  Well,  I  thought  a 
woman  as  beautiful  as  that  ought  to  be 
told  just  how  wonderful  she  looked.  And 
I  decided  to  tell  her  myself.  I  turned  to 
her  and  told  her  I  was  a  married  man  and 
that  I  wasn't  trying  to  get  fresh  with  her 
but  that  I  wanted  to  tell  her  how  beautiful 
she  was. 

"Her  face  became  a  bright  red  and  she 
turned  away  from  me.  And  the  elevator 
operator  snickered.  I  felt  as  though  I  were 
two  inches  high.  Now,  I  realize  that  I  em- 
barrassed her  by  telling  her  that — that  she 
didn't  know  how  to  accept  the  remark  I 
made  in  the  spirit  in  wh'ch  I  meant  it.  By 
trying  to  be  kind,  I  had  actually  been  cruel 
to  her,  and  I  certainly  hadn't  wanted  to  do 
that." 

vine  soon  learns,  from  everyone  who 
knows  him,  that  Garry  goes  right  on  be- 
ing kind  to  people — and  trying  not  to  em- 
barrass them  with  kindness. 

Many  people  don't  know  that,  in  his 
early  boyhood,  Gary  had  a  speech  impedi- 
ment. He  used  to  stutter.  He  overcame  the 
handicap  quite  early  in  life  and,  by  the 
time  he  was  sixteen  and  in  high  school, 
there  were  no  traces  of  it  left. 

But  his  remembrance  of  the  impediment 
has  not  left  him.  His  assistant,  Mrs.  Shir- 
ley Reeser  McNally,  can  tell  you  that  he 
still  has  a  great  interest  in  children  with 
similar  troubles.  (Garry  himself  fails  to 
mention  it.) 

"There's  a  standing  rule  around  the 
office,"  Mrs.  McNally  says,  "that  any  child 
with  a  speech  defect  who  calls  Garry  gets 
to  talk  to  him.  Garry  gets  a  number  of 
calls  from  such  children,  and  I've  known 
him  to  delay  important  meetings  in  order 
to  talk  to  a  child  with  a  stutter  or  similar 
speech  difficulty.  I've  known  him  to  talk 
as  long  as  an  hour  at  a  time  with  such  a 
child." 

From  other  sources,  one  learns  that 
Garry  is  interested  in  the  work  of  the 
National  Hospital  for  Speech  Disorders  on 
New  York's  Irving  Place,  and  that  he  will 
occasionally  visit  a  patient  there  when 
the  doctors  feel  such  a  visit  will  help  the 
patient. 

As  might  be  expected,  Garry  receives 
letters  from  all  over  the  country,  from 
many  people  who  are  in  trouble  of  one 
sort  or  another. 

Many  of  these  letters  he  will  handle  in 
his  office.  Others  he  takes  home  with  him 
to  his  house  in  suburban  New  York. 
There,  in  the  quiet  of  the  evening,  sur- 
rounded by  his  family,  he  will  telephone 
almost  any  place  in  the  country  to  talk  to 
these  troubled  people  and  try  to  help 
them  out  of  their  troubles. 

"I  don't  have  any  idea  how  many  calls 
he  makes  a  month,"  Mrs.  McNally  ob- 
serves, "but  I'm  sure  his  telephone  bill 
must  be  enormous.  I  know  he  makes  lots 
of  calls  to  help  people." 

Nor  are  these  the  only  ways  Garry 
shows  that  he  believes  in  being  kind. 
Quite  frequently,  at  the  close  of  his  daily 
morning  program,  he  will  use  material — 
written  by  himself  or  sent  in  by  viewers — 
which  is  inspirational  without  being 
maudlin  or  cloyingly  sweet. 

Here  are  two  examples  of  material  he 
himself  has  written  for  his  shows: 

"Before  cashing  our  chips  in  completely 


P  A  T  T  E'Ir  N 


Make  This 

Anne  Fogarty 

Original 

and  be  the 

Best  Dressed  Girl 

In  Town 


Let  these  famous 
American  Designers 
help  you  be  the  best 
dressed  girl  in  town 
-if  you  can  sew :-       ^„g  foOARTT 

Ceil  Chapman — Claire  McCardell — Tina 
Leser — Jo  Copeland — Philip  Mangone — 
Monte  Sano — Herbert  Sondheim — Anne 
Fogarty — Brigance — David  Goodstein — 
Joset  Walker — Joseph  Halpert  —  Vera 
Maxwell — Toni  Owen — Fira  Benenson — 
Harvey  Berin — Frank  Gallant — Mollie 
Parnis — Clare  Potter. 

Patterns  of  136  original  designs  by 
these   famous   names  are  now   available. 

To  see  this  entire  collection  send  50c 
for  our  100-page  pattern  booklet  XI. 


World  Wide,  Dept.  WG-1055 
63  Central  Avenue 
Ossining,  N.  Y. 

Send    me    100-page    pattern    booklet    XI. 
enclose  50c. 

NAME 


STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE. 


money 


can  be  yours  for  help- 
ing us  take  orders  for 
magazine  subscriptions. 

Write  for  FREE  Information.  No  obligation. 

TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42  St.,  N.Y.  17,  N.Y. 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


Many  Finish  in  2  Years 

If  you  did  not  or  cannot  finish  high  school,  here  is 
your  opportunity.  Study  in  spare  time  at  home.  Go 
as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Course 
equivalent  to  residential  school — prepares  for  college 
exams.  Standard  texts  supplied.  Credit  for  subjects 
already  completed.  Single  subjects  if  desired.  Di- 
ploma awarded.  Be  a  High  School  graduate.  Start 
studies  now.  Free  Bulletin.  Send  coupon. 


AMERICAN  SCHOOL,  Dept.H-753 
Drexel  at  58th  St.,  Chicago  37,  III. 

Without  obligation,  please  send  FREE  descriptive 

booklet. 

Name 


Address 

CanadiaD  Resideots:  Complete  Caoadian  Coarse  Available. 
Write  AcDerican  School.  1610  Sherbrooke  St.  West,  Montreal. 


PERMANENT  DARKENER^ 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 

SWIMPROOF!  One  application  lasts 
4  to  5  weeks!  Our  22nd  year. 


$1.00  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores 


m 


Send  TODAY 
for  TRIAL  SIZE.' 


"DARK-EVES"  COMPANY,  Depl.  P-105  ■ 

3319  >V.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  ill.  ■ 

I  enclose  75t  (coin  or  slomps-lox  included)  for  TRlAt  SIZE  | 

PACKAGE  of  "Dark-Eyes"  wllti  direclions,  | 


Check  shade:  □  Black  □  Brown 


Addre: 
|Towr_ 


-     I 


101 


today,  I  have  here  a  httle  thought  that 
might  add  something  to  somebody's  hfe — 
including,  Heaven  knows,  my  own.  .  .  . 
If  we  were  warned  that  sudden  death  lay 
five  minutes  before  us,  if  we  were  given 
five  minutes  in  which  to  tell  what  every- 
thing had  meant  to  us,  every  telephone 
booth  in  the  country  would  suddenly  be 
full  of  people  trying  to  ring  up  other  peo- 
ple and  to  stammer  out  how  much  they 
love  them.  .  .  .  Why  wait  for  that?  Why 
not  do  it  today?  Like  right  now,  for  in- 
stance. If  you  want  to  be  happy  for  the 
rest  of  the  day,  just  call  up  somebody 
right  now  and  tell  them  that  you  love 
them." 

And,  "In  closing  our  little  meeting  for 
today,  here's  a  little  item  that  might  be  of 
some  help  to  you  as  you  go  through  the 
rest  of  the  day.  .  .  .  Remember  that  a 
smile  costs  nothing  but  creates  much.  It 
happens  in  a  flash,  but  the  memory  some- 
times lasts  forever.  It  cannot  be  bought, 
begged,  borrowed,  or  stolen;  but  it  is 
something  that  is  no  earthly  good  to  any- 
one unless  it  is  given  away.  .  .  .  So,  if,  in 
your  rush  and  hurry,  you  meet  someone 
who  is  too  weary  to  give  you  a  smile, 
leave  him  one  of  yours.  For  no  one  needs 
a  smile  quite  as  much  as  he  who  has  none 
left  to  give." 

This  is  the  professional  side  of  Garry 
Moore's  life,  his  life  in  contact  with  the 
pubUc.  What  about  his  private  life,  that 
life  in  which  he  doesn't  come  in  contact 
with  the  public? 

There,  too,  apparently,  Garry  lives  by 
the  precept  he  gives  to  his  audience. 

A  visit  to  the  large  suite  of  offices  on 
Manhattan's  West  Side  reveals  that  the 
workers  there  are  relaxed,  that  there  is 
none  of  that  tension  and  bustle  which  one 
is  apt  to  find  in  an  office.  The  personnel 
are  relaxed  and  genial.  Little  jokes  are  ex- 
changed. There  is  a  feeling  of  calmness,  of 
friendliness. 

Garry  himself,  when  he  is  in  the  office, 
sits  in  a  corner  office  furnished  conserva- 
tively except  for  a  fuschia-colored  rock- 
ing chair  of  old-fashioned  design.  (It  was 
obviously  given  to  him  by  a  fan  and  he 
has  kept  it  because  it  is  so  completely  out 
of  keeping  with  the  rest  of  the  office.) 
Garry  sits  in  his  shirt  sleeves,  behind  a 
large  desk,  handling  the  many  adminis- 
trative details  which  the  large  operation 
entails.  He  is  as  calm  and  friendly  as  are 
the  rest  of  the  staff. 

All  this  doesn't  mean  that  no  work  is 
done.  There  is,  and  a  great  deal  of  work — 
because  putting  on  the  air  some  four 
hours  of  television  a  week  requires  much 
intense  preparation.  But  the  work  is  done 
quietly  and  efficiently  by  people  who  ob- 
viously enjoy  what  they're  doing,  and 
who  just  as  obviously  enjoy  working  with 
Garry. 

Mrs.  McNally,  who  has  been  Garry's 
assistant  for  more   than   four  years,   puts 


one  phase  of  the  working  situation  this 
way:  "In  all  the  time  I've  been  working 
with  Garry,  I've  only  known  him  to  raise 
his  voice  once.  And  I've  forgotten  now 
what  that  was  about." 

When  Garry  walks  through  the  offices, 
there  is  none  of  the  snapping  to  attention 
which  one  often  sees  in  other  offices  when 
the  boss  appears.  They  all  either  talk  with 
Garry  casually,  or  exchange  quips  with 
him,  or  go  on  about  what  they  were  do- 
ing, still  completely  relaxed. 

A  member  of  the  CBS  staff,  who  has  the 
opportunity  to  see  all  the  network's  stars 
at  their  best  and  at  their  worst— ^who  sees 
them  during  rehearsals,  at  home  and  on 
the  air — commented  on  Garry  Moore's 
show  and  his  office  staff:  "I  can't  think  of 
any  other  star  here  whose  staff  is  as  re- 
laxed as  Garry's,  and  yet  gets  so  much 
done.  The  rehearsals  are  wonderful  things 
to  watch.  There's  always  a  lot  of  kidding 
around  and  playing.  Oh,  they  get  things 
done,  of  course.  But  it's  an  easygoing  sort 
of  work.  It's  just  fun  to  watch  those  re- 
hearsals. I  can't  think  of  any  other  star 
that's  true  of." 

In  discussing  his  way  of  life,  Garry  him- 
self can  be  quite  frank.  "I  can't  help  feel- 
ing," he  says,  "that,  if  by  being  kind  to 
other  people  and  pleasant  whenever  pos- 
sible, you  can  make  things  easier  for 
everybody,  it  certainly  makes  a  lot  of 
sense  to  be  that  way. 

"After  all,"  Garry  continues,  "there's  a 
certain  amount  of  work  to  be  done.  That 
in  itself  isn't  much  fun  to  do.  If,  on  top  of 
the  work,  you  have  to  fight  tension  and 
fear,  then  it  makes  the  work  that  much 
more  difficult  to  perform.  Doesn't  it  make 
sense,  then,  to  be  pleasant  and  kind,  if  by 
doing  so  you  make  things  easier? 

"Besides,"  he  adds  with  candor,  "it 
makes  things  easier  for  me,  too,  you 
know." 

Perhaps  another  indication  of  the  way 
of  life  of  Garry  Moore  is  the  fact  that  all 
of  his  daytime  show  personnel  have  been 
with  him  since  its  inception.  The  group 
includes  Denise  Lor,  Ken  Carson,  Howard 
Smith  and  Durward  Kirby. 

"Now  don't  think,"  Garry  says  of  them, 
"that  they're  on  the  show  because  of 
kindness!  They're  not.  They're  there  be- 
cause they've  got  talent.  Otherwise,  they'd 
be  fired.  There  have  been  others  on  the 
show  who  were,  you  know." 

Be  that  as  it  may,  the  fact  that  they 
have  all  seen  fit  to  stay  with  Garry  for  the 
five  and  a  half  years  the  show  has  been  on 
the  air,  working  with  him  and  with  each 
other  five  days  a  week,  indicates  they  like 
the  atmosphere  surrounding  the  show. 

In  commenting  on  things  about  the 
show,  Durward  Kirby  has  said,  "It's  won- 
derful. If  one  of  the  people  has  a  good 
reason  for  being  off  the  show  some  day, 
it's  all  right.  We  just  work  around  him  or 
her.    And   that's   that.   No   trouble   at   all. 


ALL  ABOUT  MOTHER  EVE 

Ffrst,  there's  a  wonderful  cover  portrait — In  full  color,  of  course! — of  lovely 

EVE   ARDEN   with   her   little   son    Douglas   Brooks   West 

.  .  .  then  there's  the  gay,  tender  story  known  only  by  her  family  and  closest 
friends — the  longing  of  Our  Miss  Brooks  for  a  baby  to  hold  in  her  arms  .  . 
the  joy  of  motherhood,  the  fulfillment  of  her  happy  marriage  to  handsome  actor 
BROOKS  WEST  .  .  .  here  they  are — with  pictures  to  prove  It — in  the 

NOVEMBER 
issue  of  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  on  sale  October  6 


102" 


People  come  first,  so  far  as  Garry's  con- 
cerned." 

Once,  when  Denise  Lor  wanted  to  take 
her  son,  Ronnie,  to  a  new  school  and  see 
him  enrolled  properly,  it  was  Garry  who 
insisted  that  she  absent  herself  from  the 
show  that  day  to  make  it  possible. 

Miss  Lor  says  about  Garry:  "His  atti- 
tude toward  the  people  who  work  for  him 
can  best  be  illustrated  by  what  he  told 
me  one  day.  Something  Hke  this:  'Denise, 
you  should  do  everything  to  develop  and 
exploit  your  talents.  The  pubUc  may 
someday  accept  you  as  a  star  and  you  may 
become  important  enough  to  leave  this 
show  and  strike  out  on  your  own.  I  hate 
the  thought  of  having  you  ever  leave  the 
show.  But,  if  there's  anything  I  can  do  to 
help  you  get  further  recognition — if  there 
are  any  doors  I  can  open,  anything  at  all 
I  can  do — let  me  know  and  I'll  do  my  best.' 

"And  Garry  has  lived  up  to  that  prom- 
ise— not  only  with  me,  but  with  others  of 
his  show-business  associates  as  well.  Some 
months  ago  I  needed  a  film  of  one  of  Gar- 
ry's programs  to  show  to  an  advertising 
agency  which  was  considering  hiring  me 
for  a  guest  appearance  on  another  show.  I 
asked  Garry  if  he  could  help  me  borrow  a 
kinescope  and  he  said,  'Sure,  take  the  one 
of  the  show  we  did  last  week,  when  I  blew 
my  lines  and  you  covered  up  for  me.' 

"I  told  Garry  that  I  certainly  would  not 
show  any  advertising  agency  any  such 
thing  which  might  show  him  off  in  a  bad 
light.  'Don't  be  silly,'  he  chided,  'it  makes 
you  look  good,  and  it  might  help  you  get 
the  job.'  So  saying,  he  got  the  kinescope 
film  for  me.    (P.S.  I  got  the  job.) 

"Offhand,  I  can't  think  of  any  other  star 
who  would  willingly  allow  an  ad  agency 
man  to  see  him  in  a  possible  bad  light  in 
order  to  help  a  lesser  member  of  his  cast." 

Denise  adds:  "Garry,  off  stage  as  well 
as  on,  is  a  wonderfully  warm  and  under- 
standing person.  I'll  never  forget  the  first 
time  he  and  his  wife  came  to  visit  our 
home.  My  older  son,  Ronnie,  has  the  kind 
of  hair  that  simply  won't  stay  combed. 
But,  when  he  heard  that  Garry — my  boss 
— was  coming  to  our  house,  he  spent  hours 
combing  his  cowlicks  in  order  to  look  his 
very  best.  Sure  enough,  a  few  minutes 
after  Garry  arrived,  Ronnie's  cowlicks 
started  popping  up  all  over  the  place,  and 
Ronnie  started  to  feel  embarrassed.  Garry 
straightaway  put  him  at  his  ease.  'I  have 
hair  just  like  yours,'  he  confided  to  Ron- 
ine.  'I  have  twelve  cowlicks.  That's  why  I 
have  mine  crew-cut.' " 

Many  people — both  viewers  and  mem- 
bers of  the  television  industry — have  com- 
mented often  about  how  relaxed  and  se- 
rene Garry  always  appears  on  the  air. 
"This  is  not  the  case,"  Garry  has  replied, 
both  on  and  off  the  air.  "Many  times 
when  I  seem  to  be  composed  and  cool,  in- 
wardly I'm  in  a  turmoil  about  something 
that  has  gone  wrong  or  something  I'm 
about  to  do." 

But  it  is  obvious  to  everyone  that,  most 
of  the  time  he  is  on  the  air — and  almost 
all  of  the  time  he  is  not  being  seen  by  his 
audience — he  is  at  peace.  He  seems  to  be 
at  peace  with  the  world  and,  more  impor- 
tant, at  peace  with  himself.' 

Quite  frequently,  people  comment  about 
how  Garry  Moore  looks  a  great  deal 
younger  than  his  forty  years.  This,  too, 
may  be  attributed  to  the  fact  that  he  has 
found  inner  peace  which  allows  him  to 
relax  and  be  free  from  the  strains  which 
show  on  the  faces  of  other  people. 

Thus  it  would  seem  that,  by  living  the 
precept  which  he  gives  to  otihiers  on  the 
air,  Garry  Moore  has  achieved  a  great 
deal.  And  it  would  also  seem  that,  if  the 
philosophy  has  been  able  to  do  all  this  for 
him,  it  is  reasonable  to  expect  it  to  do  the 
same  for  others. 

"Be  very  kind  to  each  other!" 


I 


odess 


Only  New  Design  Modess  gives  you  tlie  luxury  of  a  new 
whisper-soft  fabric  covering  ...  no  gauze  .  .  .  no  chafe. 


AT  LAST  A  LIQUID  SHAMPOO 

THATs  EXTRA  RICH  I 


ITS   LIQUID 


°«f@^/^1^ 


It's  marvelous!  — with  radiant  beautv  in  everv  drop  —  exciting, 
new  Liquid  Prell!  It's  extra-rich -that's  why  it  leaves  your  hair 
looking  so  'Radiantly  Alive' .  .  .  feeling  so  angelically  soft  .  .  . 
behaving  so  beautifully!  You'll  love  Liquid  Prell  and  its  unique, 
extra-rich  formula  that  bursts  instantly  into  mounds  of  richer, 
more  effective  lather.  Try  it  today! 


JUST  POUR  IT...qnd  you'll  see  the  glorious  difference! 

Never  too  thin  and  waterv  like  some  liquid  shampoos  .  .  . 
ne\'er  too  thick  with  a  "filming"  ingredient  that  dulls  hair 
like  others.  Extra-Rich  Liquid  Prell  has  just  the  right 
consistency— it  won't  run  and  it  never  leaves  a  dulling  film! 


PRELL— 

the  Radiant  Shampoo 
now  available  2  ways: 

There's  the  exciting,  new 
extra-rich  liquid  in  the  hand- 
some, easy-grip  bottle! 

And,  of  course,  children  and 
grownups  alike  love  famous 
Prell  in  the  handy  tube! 
Won't  spill,  drip,  or  break. 
So  economical,  too  —  ounce 
for  ounce  it  goes  further! 


CREATED  BY  PROCTER  4  GAMBLE 


HAJDTO 


NEW' 


10  MIRROR'S  N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 

ov. 


IIY  GRAHAM -Man  of  Decision  •  PRESTON  FOSTER 


PATTI    PAGE 


2S<' 


"There's  no  finer  complexion  care!" 

says  Mrs.  Julian  A.  Frank,  a  radiant  Camay  Bride.  Cold  cream  Camay, 
the  beauty  secret  of  so  many  exquisite  brides,  can 
caress  rouR  skin  to  new  loveliness,  too,  and  leave  it  softer,  smoother. 
Just  change  to  regular  care  .  .  .  Camay's  Caressing  Care. 
With  its  skin-pampering  mildness,  velvety  lather,  and 

exclusive  fragrance,  there's  no  finer  soap  in  all  the  world ! 


i 


/ 


THE  SOAP  OF  BEAUTIFUL  WOMEN 


THIS  SPACE  RESERVED 

for  teeth  that  must  last  for  68  years 


Protect  your  child's  teeth  with  the  tooth 
paste  that  destroys  decay  bacteria  best* 

When  those  new  teeth  and  their  mates 
arrive,  they  face  a  Ufetime  of  dangers. 

And  here's  a  shocker :  the  average  child 
loses  one  or  more  of  his  second  teeth 
— permanent  teeth — while  in  his  teens. 

*Fortunately,  new  Ipana  with  WD-9 
is  made  especially  to  help  you  keep  your 
children's  teeth  sound  and  healthy.  It 
destroys  tooth-decay  bacteria  better 
than  any  other  leading  tooth  paste . . . 
including  fluoride  tooth  paste. 

Teeth  get  remarkable  protection  with 
new  Ipana  because  of  decay-fighting 


WD-9.  In  Ipana's  special  formula,  it 
works  even  in  spaces  too  tiny  for  the 
tooth  brush  to  reach. 

Why  not  start  today  to  help  keep  your 
family's  teeth  sound  and  healthy — 
with  the  dentifrice  that  destroys  decay 
bacteria  better  than  any  other  lead- 
ing tooth  paste?  New-formula  Ipana 
with  WD-9. 

P.  S.  Because  regular  brushing  is  best, 
you'll  be  glad  Ipana  now  has  a  fresh, 
new,  minty  flavor  that  coaxes  kids  and 
grown-ups  to  brush. 

Ipana  A/C  Tooth  Paste  (Ammoniated 
Chlorophyll)also  contains  bacteria-de- 
stroyer WD-9  (Sodium  Lauryl  Sulfate) 


PRODUCTS   OF   BRISTOL-MYERS 


New-Ftormula  IPANA  with  14VD-9 

destroys  decay  bacteria  better 
than  any  other  leading  tooth  paste 


^ 


PERIODIC    PAIN 

Midol  acts  three  ways  to  bring 
relief  from  menstrual  suffering. 
It  relieves  cramps,  eases  head- 
ache and  it  chases  the  "blues". 

.      Sally  now  takes  Midol  at  the       . 

^^  first  sign  of  menstrual  distress.  ^ 

^    "WHAT  WOMEN  WANT  TO  KNOW"   ^^ 

g  a    24-page    book   explaining    menstruation  1 

is  yours,  FREE.  Write  Dep't  B-1I5,  Box  280, 

New  York  18,  N.  Y.  (Sent  in  plain  wrapper). 


NOVEMBER,  1955 


TV 


RADIO 
MIRROR 


VOL.  44,  NO.  6 


A^.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham,  Editor 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  IFest  Coast  Editor 


people  on  the  air 

What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  11 

Days  of  Remembrance  (Art  Linkletter) by  Maxine  Arnold  29 

Lovely,  Lovely  Secret   (Patti  Page) by  Ed  Meyerson  32 

Billy  Graham — Man  of  Decision by  Gregory  Merwin  34 

More  Than  a  Dream  (Eve  Arden) by  Betty  Mills  36 

The  Smile  Behind  the  Song  (Perry  Como) by  Lilla  Anderson  38 

Happiness  Knows  No  Season   (Spring  Byington) by  Elsa  Molina  40 

Miracle  in  Music    (Gino  Prato   and   The  $64,000   Question) 

by  Helen  Bolstad  42 

Barbara  Becker's  Road  Of  Life by  Mary  Temple  50 

Double  Life  in  Big  Town  (Mark  Stevens) by  Jerry  Asher  54 

Valiant  Lady  Theme  (words  and  music  from  the  beloved  serial) 56 

Be  What  You  Want  To  Be  (Preston  Foster) by  Bud  Goode  58 

The  Secret  Storm  (picture  story  from  the  popular  daytime  drama)....  60 

Laughter  in  the  Stars   (Jackie  Gleason) by  Gladys  Hall  64 

Who    Are    the    Ten    Best   Dressed    Men    in    TV?     (Vote    today    for 

television's  best  dressed  men  in  our  wonderful  new  contest) 66 


features  in  full  color 

Home  at  First  Sight  (Jack  Sterling) by  Frances  Kish  44 

Party  Time   (Charles  Baxter  entertains  the  stars) 48 

To  Love  Is  To  Share   (Bud  CoUyer) by  Martin  Cohen  52 


your  local  station 

Pittsburgh  on   Parade    (KDKA-TV) 4 

Especially  for  Children   (WPTZ) 8 

All  in  Fun   (WRGB-TV) 16 

Step  This  Way  (WABC-TV) 26 


your  special  services 

Steve  Allen's  Turntable 6 

New  Designs  for  Living    (needlecraft  and  transfer  patterns) 12 

Information    Booth 14 

Daytime  Diary 18 

New  Patterns  for  You   (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 24 

Inside  Radio    (program   listings) 72 

TV  Program  Highlights 74 

Cover  portrait  of  Eve  Arden  by  Jay  Seymour 


.,^; 


buy  your  December  copy  early  •   on  sale  November  8 


PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  by  Macfadden  Publications,   Inc.,  New 

York.  N.   Y. 

EXECUTIVE,     ADVERTISING     AND     EDITORIAL    OFFICES     at 

205  East  42nd  Street.  New  York,  N.  Y.  Editorial  Branch 
Offices:  321  South  Beverly  Drive.  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.,  and 
221  North  La  Sallo  Street,  Chicago.  111.  Irving  S.  Manheimer. 
President;  Lee  Andrews,  Vice  President;  Meyer  Dworkln, 
Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Advertising  offices  also  In  Chicago 
and    San    Francisco. 

SUBSCRIPTION  HATES:  $3.00  one  year,  U.  S.  and  Posses- 
sions and  Canada.  $5.00  per  year  for  all  other  countries. 
CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When  pos- 
sible, please  furnish  stencil-impression  address  from  a  re- 
cent issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only  if  you  send  us 
your  old,  as  well  as  your  new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio 
Mirror,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  considered, 
but   publisher  cannot   be   responsible  for   loss   or  damage.    It 

Member  of  the  TRUE 


is  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  for  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self -addressed 
return  envelopes  or  with  sufficient  return  postage  will  be 
returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17, 
N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer,  President;  Douglas  Lockhart, 
Vice    President. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter.  June  28,  1954,  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y. .  under  the  Act  of  March  3. 
1879.  Authorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.  O.  Dept.,  Ottawa. 
Ont.,  Canada.  Copyright  1955  bv  Macfadden  Publications.  Inc. 
AH  rights  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention. 
All  rights  reserved  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion. Todos  derechos  reservados  segun  la  Convenclon  Pan- 
Americana  de  Propledad  Llteraria  y  Artistica.  Title  trademark 
registered  in  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Company. 
STORY  Women's   Group 


Sa  gu/c  ontfrfiifig  fe  befemg!. 


Ann  sighed  as  she  looked  enviously 
through  the  window  at  a  happy  group 
of  boys  and  girls  heading  for  the  Bowl- 
ing Alley.  How  she  wished  she  were 
one  of  them. 

""I'd  give  anything  to  belong,"  she 
said  for  the  hundredth  time. 

Why  did  they  snub  her  so  consist- 
ently, she  wondered.  Why  did  they 
leave  her  out  of  things?  She  was  quite 
sure  she  was  just  as  pretty — prettier, 
even,  than  some  of  the  girls  .  .  .  just  as 
nicely  dressed,  too  .  .  .  and  with  more 
personality.  Yet  she  was  outside  of  the 
charmed  circle.  She  simply  couldn't 
understand  why.  Girls  with  this  trouble"* 
seldom  do. 
Listerine  Antiseptic  does  for  you  what 


no  tooth  paste  does.  Listerine  instantly 
kills  germs,  by  millions  —  stops  bad 
breath*  (halitosis)  instantly,  and  usu- 
ally for  hours  on  end. 

Far  and  away  the  most  common 
cause  of  bad  breath  is  germs.  You  see, 
germs  cause  fermentation  of  proteins, 
which  are  always  present  in  the  mouth. 
Ant^  research  shows  that  your  breath  stays 
sweeter  longer,  the  more  you  reduce  germs 
in  the  mouth. 

No  tooth  paste  kills  germs 
like  this  . . .  instantly 

Tooth  paste  with  the  aid  of  a  tooth 
brush  is  an  effective  method  of  oral 
hygiene.  But  no  tooth  paste  gives  you 
the  proven  Listerine  Antiseptic  method 


— banishing  bad  breath  with  super- 
efficient  germ-killing  action. 

Listerine  Antiseptic  clinically  proved 
four  times  better  than  tooth  paste 

Is  it  any  wonder  Listerine  Antiseptic  in 
recent  clinical  tests  averaged  at  least 
four  times  more  effective  in  stopping 
bad  breath  odors  than  the  chlorophyll 
products  or  tooth  pastes  it  was  tested 
against?  With  proof  like  this,  it's  easy 
to  see  why  Listerine  belongs  in  your 


home.  Every  morning 
.  .  .  before  every  date, 
make  it  a  habit  to  use 
Listerine,  the  most 
widely  used  antiseptic 
in  the  world. 


every  night 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC  STOPS  BAD  BREATH 

4  times  better  than  any  tooth  paste 


k 


PITTSBURGH  ON  PARADE 


One  of  the  show's  yearly  highlights  is  the  Twin  and  Triplet  Contest,  when  groups  of  all  ages  compete  for  special  prizes. 


T    Emcee    Nobel    and    singing    star    Connie    Haines    congratulate 
*    Thomos    McNutt,    a    winner   on    The    Wilkens   Amateur   Hour. 


TWENTY  years  ago,  in  November,  1935,  the  Wilkens 
Jewelry  Company  of  Pittsburgh  made  its  first 
entry  in  radio  history  when  it  launched  The  Wilkens 
Amateur  Hour  over  Station  KDKA.  Since  then, 
more  than  20,000  acts  consisting  of  almost  25,000 
performers  have  appeared  on  this  show,  which  has 
always  been  a  favorite  for  millions  of  listeners  and, 
for  the  past  six  years,  KDKA-TV  viewers. . . .  Orig- 
inally planned  as  only  an  eight-week  show,  The 
Wilkens  Amateur  Hour's  tremendous  popularity 
has  made  it  a  perennial  Sunday  evening  favorite, 
mainly  because  it  spotlights  local  performers — 
many  of  whom  have  gone  on  to  national  fame. 
Singer  Dean  Martin  was  a  weekly  winner  the  sec- 
ond time  the  show  was  aired  in  1935.  Popular 
recording  artists,  The  Four  Coins,  also  started  their 
careers  on  The  Wilkens  Amateur  Hour.  ...  In  addi- 
tion to  showcasing  local  talent,  the  program  has 
presented  numerous  guest  stars  and  special  shows. 
One  of  these,  the  All  Twin  and  Triplet  Contest, 
features  14  or  15  twin  and  triplet  acts,  and  the 
studio  audience  for  that  broadcast  consists  solely 
of  twins  and  triplets.  Other  special  shows  include 
the  Anniversary  Show  each  November  and  the 
Children's  Hospital  Benefit  Show  during  Christmas 
week.  Very  special  yearly  guests  are  the  cute 
Zavada  Quadruplets,  who  first  appeared  eight  years 
ago — in  their  cribs.  .  .  .  Without  a  doubt,  one  of 
Ti^e  Wilkens  Amateur  Hour's  nicest  attractions  is 
its  genial  emcee,  Al  Nobel.  A  show-business  vet- 
eran, Al  was  a  baby-faced  lad  when  he  first  audi- 


Talent  gets  more  than  an  even  break 
as  Al  T^obel   introduces    tomorroics   stars 
on  KDKA-TV's  Wilkens  Amateur  Hour 


Rudy  Vallee,  one  of  the  many  celebrities  who  have 
appeared  as  guests,  enjoys  a  hearty  laugh  with  Al. 


tioned  for  radio,  back  in  1936.  In  subsequent  years, 
he  sang  at  radio  stations  and  hotels  in  upstate  New 
York,  then  moved  to  New  York  City,  where  for 
two  years  he  sang  with  Eddie  Lane's  band.  Next, 
he  worked  with  Charlie  Spivak  and  Hal  Mclntyre. 
In  1943,  while  singing  with  Mclntyre  in  Pittsburgh, 
Al  met  Vera  Mahoney.  The  following  year,  he  re- 
turned to  marry  Vera  and,  a  year  after  that,  he 
settled  in  the  Steel  City  as  an  announcer  at  Station 
KQV.  .  .  .  Within  five  years,  Al  had  gained  a  hand- 
some reputation  in  Pittsburgh  and,  in  1950,  when 
The  Wilkens  Amateur  Hour  moved  to  TV,  Al  was 
chosen  to  emcee  the  festivities.  The  partnership 
has  been  a  perfect  one.  and  Al  has  proved  to  be  an 
emcee  with  a  big  and  helpful  heart.  Never  having 
forgotten  the  hard  road  he  had  to  travel  to  reach 
success.  Al  has  always  bent  over  backw^ards  to  help 
others.  Each  week,  he  personally  auditions  every 
amateur  applicant,  tries  to  put  them  at  ease,  and 
passes  along  many  of  the  show-business  tricks  he 
has  learned.  .  .  .  The  fact  that  The  Wilkens  Amateur 
Hour  is  the  most  popular  local  show  in  Pittsburgh 
and  is  growing  bigger  and  better  every  year  has 
been  reflected  in  the  continuous  pleased  and  whole- 
hearted response  from  KDKA  audiences.  In  pre- 
senting local  personalities  in  a  wide  variety  of 
acts,  it  also  generates  a  warmth  that  only  amateurs 
can  impart.  With  these  magic  ingredients,  it  seems 
certain  that  The  Wilkens  Amateur  Hour  will  long 
continue  to  be  the  recipe  for  a  brighter  future  for 
performers  and  better  entertainment  for  audiences. 


Weekly  winners  Art  Jones  and  Bill  Dennbaugh  get  a  typically 
antic  run  for  their  prize  nnoney  fronn  guest  star  Jerry  Colonno. 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


!l 


GREETINGS  again,  from  New  York.  I'm 
finally  back  in  the  big  city  after  toil- 
ing away  the  summer  in  Hollywood, 
making  "The  Benny  Goodman  Story" 
movie  and  doing  my  Tonight  television 
show.  And,  after  a  slight  vacation,  I'm 
ready  to  go  again,  so  let's  be  off  to  the 
music  department  and  see  what  we  have 
in  the  way  of  new  record  releases. 

Capitol  is  all  excited  about  Frank  Sin- 
atra's latest,  and  well  they  might  be.  Frank 
sings  a  lovely  ballad,  "Fairy  Tales,"  which 
could  be  another  "Young  at  Heart"  for 
him.  And  the  backing,  "Same  Old  Satur- 
day Night,"  might  click  as  big  as  "Learnin' 
the  Blues."  Sinatra  is  riding  high  these 
days  and  is  singing  better  than  ever. 

Paul  Weston  and  his  orchestra  have  a 
wonderful  new  album  called  "Mood  for 
Twelve" — twelve  standard  tunes  featuring 
twelve  big-name  instrumental  soloists. 
This  is  mood  music  at  its  best,  with  such 
musicians  as  Ziggy  Elman,  Eddie  Miller, 
Bill  Schaefer,  George  Van  Eps,  Stanley 
Wrightsman  and  others,  each  playing  their 
individual  interpretations  of  songs  like 
"Confessin',"  "Judy,"  "It's  the  Talk  of  the 
Town,"  and  "Skylark."    (Columbia) 

Martial  tempos  seem  to  be  the  thing 
these  days  and  Hugo  Winterhalter  and  his 
orchestra  have  jumped  into  the  parade 
with  "The  Oranges  of  Jaffa"  coupled  with 
"Kiki."  This  rendition  is  quite  a  departure 
for  Winterhalter,  who  is  well  known  for 
his  lush  orchestrations  featuring  string  in- 
struments. On  these  two  sides  Hugo  has 
nary  a  violin,  but  instead  features  a  brass 
section  of  sixteen.  The  lyrics  are  done  by 
a  vocal  chorus.   (Victor) 


Tonight's    Steve    Allen,    Eydie    Gorme 
and   Steve   Lawrence   star  on   records. 


Selections  from  the  soundtrack  of  the 
new  movie,  "Gentlemen  Marry  Brunettes," 
have  been  made  into  a  Coral  album.  The 
picture  co-stars  Jane  Russell  and  Jeanne 
Crain,  with  Scott  Brady,  but  only  Jane 
does  her  own  singing.  Anita  Ellis  dubs 
for  Jeanne,  Robert  Farnum  does  the  same 
for  Brady,  and  Coral  has  added  Johnny 
Desmond  for  good  measure.  The  tunes  are 
all  old  ones — "Funny  Valentine,"  "Daddy," 
"I've  Got  Five  Dollars,"  "You're  Driving 
Me   Crazy,"   and    others. 

Another  musical  movie  soundtrack  trans- 
ferred into  album  form  is  M-G-M's  "It's 
Always  Fair  Weather,"  and  on  this  one 
everybody  sings  for  himself — Dolores 
Gray,  Gene  Kelly,  Dan  Dailey  and  Michael 
Kidd.  Kidd  is  the  famous  choreographer 
and  he  sings  and  dances  in  front  of  the 
camera  for  the  first  time  in  this  picture, 
and  also  makes  his  debut  on  record.  The 
score,  by  Betty  Comden,  Adolph  Green 
and  Andre  Previn,  is  a  good  one,  with 
bright,  new  tunes — "Music  Is  Better  Than 
Words,"  "Thanks  Again,  But  No  Thanks," 
"Stillman's  Gym"  and  "Baby,  You  Knock 
Me  Out" — to  name  a  few.  Previn  did  the 
arrangements  and  conducts  the  M-G-M 
Studio  Orchestra  and  Chorus. 

Al  Hibbler  has  chosen  a  religious  song, 
"He,"  to  follow  up  his  "Unchained  Melody" 
hit.  On  the  reverse,  he  revives  the  oldie, 
"Breeze."  Jack  Pleis'  orchestra  and  chorus. 
(Decca) 

Though  the  rhythm  and  blues  craze  has 
died  down  a  bit,  it  isn't  over,  as  is  well 
evidenced  in  "Rock  It,  Davy  Crockett,"  by 
Paul  "Mr.  Hucklebuck"  Williams  and  his 
orchestra,  with  a  rockin'  vocal  by  Jimmy 
Brown.  The  flip  side  is  a  novelty,  "Hello," 
also  given  the  r  &  b  treatment.   (Capitol) 

The  vocal  kids  on  my  Tonight  show, 
Eydie  Gorme  and  Steve  Lawrence,  each 
have  a  new  release.  Eydie  does  the  Ijallad, 
"Soldier  Boy,"  and  "What  Is  the  Secret  of 
Your  Success?",  the  song  that  was  intro- 
duced on  NBC-TV's  production  of  "The 
King  and  Mrs.  Candle."  George  Cates  con- 
ducts the  orchestra.  Cates  also  handles  the 
baton  on  Steve's  record  of  "Open  Up  the 
Gates  of  Mercy,"  an  inspirational  song, 
and  a  love  ballad,  "My  Impression  of 
Janie."   (Coral) 

Burl  Ives,  the  beloved  folk  singer,  has 
a  new  album  called  "Men,"  in  which  he 
sings  songs  for  and  about  the  so-called 
stronger  sex,  and  it's  a  happy  sequel  to  his 
"Women"  set,  which  he  recorded  last  year. 
Versatile  Burl  is  still  starring  on  Broad- 
way in  a  dramatic  role  in  "Cat  on  a  Hot 
Tin  Roof."  "Men"  is  a  Decca  album. 

Young  Sandy  Stewart,  the  vocal  miss  on 
CBS-TV's  Morning  Show,  has  waxed  two 
cute  novelties,  "Puddin'  'n'  Pie,"  and  "In 
Nuevo  Laredo."  Sandy  is  only  seventeen, 
but  her  voice  has  a  maturity  way  beyond 


her  years — but  not  her  talent.   (X  Label) ' 

"In  the  Wee  Small  Hours"  and  "I  Had  a 
Love  Who  Loved  Me,"  both  pretty  ballads, 
are  sung  well  by  Chris  Dane,  with  Harry 
Arnold's  orchestra.  Chris  is  a  well-known 
baritone  in  Sweden,  where  these  two  sides 
were  recorded,  and  sounds  a  little  like  Dick 
Haymes,  with  a  slight  accent.  (Cadence) 

George  Cates'  orchestra  and  chorus  offeri 
"High  and  Dry"  and  the  haunting  "Autumn! 
Leaves,"  with  a  piano  solo  on  "Autumn"  . . . ' 
by  whom?  Oh — Steve  Allen.  (Coral) 

"Robert  Q.  Lewis  and  His  Gang"  is  the 
name  of  an  amusing  and  listenable  album 
by  the  cast  from  Robert  Q.'s  TV  and  radio 
shows — Betty  Clooney,  Don  Liberto,  Lois 
Hunt,  Earl  Wrightson,  Ray  Bloch's  orches- 
tra and,  of  course,  Bob.  The  gang  do 
standards,  novelties,  and  special  material 
they've  done  on  the  shows,  including 
Bloch's  humorous  original,  "Nine  Htindred 
Pages  and  Sixty-six  Books."   (X  Label) 

Composer  -  conductor  -  arranger  Gordon 
Jenkins  has  combined  all  three  of  his  tal- 
ents to  produce  a  magnificent  album  called 
"Gordon  Jenkins'  Almanac."  He  has  writ-  . 
ten  special  mood  music  for  each  month  of 
the  calendar,  and  has  hit  just  the  right 
mood  for  each.  The  titles:  "January 
Jumps,"  "February  Fever,"  "March 
Marches  On,"  "April  Sings  a  Lonely  Song," 
"May  Wine,"  "June  Wedding,"  "Two  Weeks 
in  July,"  "August  Heat,"  "September  Calls 
Me  Home,"  "October  Ale,"  "November 
Nocturne,"  and  "Blue  December."  Gordon 
worked  on  these  compositions  and  arrange- 
ments a  long  time  and  the  result  is  just 
about  the  best  album  he  has  ever  done.  ' 
(X  Label) 

The  Cheers,  the  vocal  group  who  made 
a  lot  of  noise  with  their  "Bazoom"  record, 
have  a  new  one  which  is  bound  to  get 
plenty  of  jukebox  plays.  It's  a  novelty 
coupling  "Some  Night  in  Alaska"  and  *| 
"Blue  Denim  Trousers."  The  latter  side  is  * 
a  rocking  rhythm  tune  all  about  a  motor- 
cycle driver  and  is  especially  aimed  at  the 
teen-age  clan.  (Capitol) 

"Howls,  Boners  and  Shockers  from  Art 
Linkletter's  House  Party  Kid  Interviews" 
is  the  long  title  on  a  new  Columbia  album 
which  is  bound  to  amuse  just  about  any 
age  group.  It's  a  collection  of  the  "bests" 
from  Linkletter's  television  and  radio 
shows,  taken  ofE  tape  recordings  done  at  the 
time  of  the  actual  broadcasts.  Art  does 
short  narrations  tying  in  the  album  sec- 
tions: "Family  Secrets,"  "Jokes,"  "Poems," 
"Quickies,"  "Girl  Friends  and  Boy  Friends" 
and  "Instructions  from  Folks."  You  never 
know  what  children  are  going  to  say — but 
on  this  album  they  just  speak  right  up  and 
say  it,  with  hilarious  results. 

And  it's  time  for  me  to  speak  up  and  say  j 
so  long  for  now.  I'll  be  looking  for  you  ( 
next   month,   'long   about  the   same   page.  || 


PIAYTEX  Introduces  the  Amazing  New 
Girdle  M^er\a\.../vg(//^-S//mm/ng  FABRICON/ 


Sensational  New  PIAYTEX 


y:^ 


Made  of  wonderful  new  split -resistant 

RABRICON 

...  a  miracle  blend  of  downy-soft 
cotton  and  latex  that  gives  yon 

more  freedom.'  Fabricon  has  more  stretch/ Xo  other 
raaterial  has  FabriconV  give-aiul-take  s-t-r-e-t-c-h! 

new  coolness.'  ■"Opcn-iJore"  Fabricon  lets  your  bmly 
breathe.'  Only  I'laytex  Girdles  are  so  soft.  co<il.  absorbent. 

invisible  control.^  .\ot  a  seam,  stitch  or  bone  any- 
where.No  other  lightweight  girdle  tucks  in  vour  tummy. slims 
down  your  hips  like  this  ne\v  Plavte\  Girdle.  Makes  all  vour 
clothes  fit  and  look  brtter.  J)c»es  more  for  vour  figure  tliau 
girdles  costing  up  to  >1.t"".'  And  Light -^  eight  \\  ashes  and 
dries  in  a  vink.  New  Plavtex  Light-Height  Girdle  ■'^iJr^'^ 
At  department  and  better  specialtv  stores  evervuhere. 


Playtex . . . 
knoun  everyuhere 
as  the  jitrdie 
in  the  SLIS  tube. 


P.  S-  The  girl  is  wearing  the  new  Flaytex  Living  Braf  made  «/  eimlic  and  nylon.  $3.95 
teterncKonal  lolex  Corp'n. .    .  PtAYTEX  PARK  . . ,  Dover  Dei  *  tn  Canada:  Pteytex  Ui . . .  FtAYTEX  PARIf . . .  Arnprior,  Ont. 


'X  n"  S  \.    Canads  and  Foreign  f^iyj. 
It'  and  I'ats    Pen.iing 


•^. 


Especially 
for  Children 


Home  for  Jonathan,  Alan  and  Jeff  is  "Back  Acres,"  which 
the  Scotts  planned  and  built  themselves  near  Philadelphia. 


BACK  WHEN  he  was  a  Philadelphia  schoolboy,  Alan  Scott 
would  deliberately  miss  getting  100%  on  his  spelling 
papers.  Students  with  perfect  scores  were  given  an  award 
at  the  school  assembly,  and  Alan  was  too  shy  to  want  to 
step  out  in  front  of  all  those  people.  Alan  got  over  his 
shyness  with  the  help  of  amateur  dramatics  and  a  radio 
set  home-made  out  of  paper  clips  and  an  oatmeal  box, 
over  which  he  "broadcast"  the  Dempsey  fights  and  other 
major  events.  Then,  after  graduation  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Pennsylvania,  Alan  returned  to  the  spelling  papers, 
this  time  as  a  schoolteacher.  .  .  .  And  then,  during  a 
chance  meeting  with  Stan  Lee  Broza — founder  of  the 
famous  Children's  Hour,  then  program  director  of  a  Phil- 
adelphia radio  station  and  now  WPTZ  program  director — 
Alan  was  shocked  into  a  momentary  lapse  into  shyness. 
Alan  was  spokesman  for  a  group  of  amateur  actors  who 
were  trying  to  sell  Broza  on  a  radio  series.  Finally,  Broza 
interrupted  Alan's  speech  and  announced,  "I've  got  a 
hunch,  young  man.  How  would  you  like  to  be  a  radio  an- 
nouncer?" Alan  stuttered,  stammered  and  at  last  man- 
aged to  blurt  out,  "But  I'm  a  schoolteacher."  "Never  mind 
that,"  Broza  told  him.  "How  would  you  like  to  be  a  radio 
announcer?"  .  .  .  Today,  the  tall,  handsome  Mr.  Scott  is 
again  working  with  Mr.  Broza,  as  WPTZ's  star  of  Let 
Scott  Do  It,  seen  weekdays  at  9  A.M.,  and  Scott  And  The 
Mechanical  Man,  seen  Saturday  at  9  A.M.  These  morning 
programs  for  mothers  and  the  children  feature  "Mr.  Riv- 
ets," the  mechanical  man,  and  two-year-old  "Miss  Terry." 
As  host- conversationalist,  Alan  more  than  proves  that 
Mr.  Broza's  hunch  was  right.  .  .  .  Broza  discovered  yet 
another  newcomer  when  he  had  Alan's  son  Jeff  appear  on 
Children's  Hour.  Jeff,  who  is  now  nine,  also  joined  Alan 


Alan's  charm  and  patter  share  the  WPTZ  spotlight 
with  "Mr.  Rivets"  and  two-year-old  "Miss  Terry," 


A  rangy  ex-schoolteacher  named 
Alan  Scott  rings  the  bell  on  WPTZ 
for  the  young  in  years  and  heart 


Two  of  the  Scotts  have  appeared  on  TV,  but  all 
four — "Beam,"  Jonathan,  Alan,  Jeff — sing  at  home. 


in  the  Penn  Wynne  Players  production  of  Life  With 
Father.  Alan's  other  son,  Jonathan  David,  2,  is  next  to  be 
"discovered."  .  .  .  After  Alan's  Philadelphia  radio  debut, 
he  moved  to  WGN  in  Chicago.  The  station's  pretty  re- 
ceptionist, Maralene  Bielen,  showed  him  around  the 
studios — and  around  the  town.  "We  had  380  dates  in  one 
year's  time,"  says  Alan,  who  first  shortened  his  guide's 
name  to  "Beam,"  then  changed  it  to  Mrs.  Scott.  .  .  .  After 
Chicago,  and  a  stint  in  the  Navy,  Alan  went  on  to  New 
York,  where  he  had  his  own  Mutual  network  radio  show, 
Once  Over  Lightly,  and  was  featured  on  NBC-TV.  By 
1946,  the  ex-schoolteacher  was  back  in  the  Quaker  City 
and,  since  the  start  of  his  two  gold-star  programs,  he's 
been  enrolling  young  followers  by  the  classroom -full. 


:;J0^'" 


•li^iftKs^' 


#l(»S**iS«*^j.-5»,0 ->».,<.  V-*.  t^i-Miix' ^•^  . 


oO  e  auiijul    zTi air 

E      C 


K 


The 

JOHN       H 
NEW  Y 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR  THREE  DIFFjERENT  HAIR  CONDITIONS 
Each  one  of  the  Three  Breck  Shampoos  is  made  for  a  different  hair 
condition.  One  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair.  Another  Breck 
Shampoo  is  for  oily  hair.  A  third  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  normal 
hair.  The  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual  hair  condition 
leaves  your  hair  clean,  lustrous  and  fragrant.  A  Breck  Shampoo 
is  not  drying  to  the  hair,  yet  it  cleans  thoroughly.  A  Breck 
Shampoo  helps  bring  out  the  soft,  natural  beauty  of  your  hair. 

Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 

INC 


BRECK 
O    R    K 


MANUFACTURING        CHEMISTS 
CHICAGO  •  SAN  FRAN 

Copyright  1955  by  John  H.  Breck  Inc. 


SPRINGFIELD       3         MASSACHUSETTS 
CISCO  •  OTTAWA  CANADA 


1. 


Rhythm-in-Red!  A  high-key  red  that 
fairly  sings  ...  in  wonderful  harmony 
with  the  blues,  the  crimsons,  the  hun- 
ter gre^s  of  new  Fall  fashions. 
Rhythm-in-Red  has  just  the  right  note 
of  blue  to  give  it  a  deep,  exciting  bril- 
liance! And  naturally,  because  it's  a 
Cashmere  Bouquet  Lipstick,  Rhythm- 
in-Red  stays  crimson-bright  on  your 
lips  .  .  .  stays  off  everyone  else! 


7  Cover-Girl  Colors 


49C 


plus  tax 


h 


casnmere 


Indelible-Type  Lipstick 

Super-Creamed  to  Keep  Your  Lips  L'ke  Velvet 


Conover 
girls  pick 
Cashmere 
Bouquet 


"Have  a  lipstick  wardrobe:  a  crimson 
red  (Rhythm-in-Red),  a  true-red  (Look- 
out Red)  and  a  golden-red  (Tropic  Sun). 

All  three  cost  less  than  $2  when,  lil<e 
our  Conover  girls,  you  choose  Cash- 
mere Bouquet."  /^         — i — 

says       (jWfJ(9H£f 

Director  Conover  School,  New  York.N.Y. 

bouquet 


WHAT'S  NEW 

FROM  COAST  TO  COAST 


Bet+y  Clooney  of  the  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show  and  band- 
leader Pupi  Cannpo  got  themselves  a  marriage  license. 


Liberace  has  a  candelabra  in  his  own  backyard — and  a 
cover  picture  and  byline  story  in  our  December  issue. 


Midnight  the  Cot,  member  of  Andy's  Gang,  doesn't  play 
second  fiddle  to  anyone — not  even  Mr.  Devine  himself! 


By  JILL  WARREN 


A  GALA  REVUE,  "Cafe  de  Paris,"  will  co-star  Mary- 
Martin    and    Noel    Coward    on    the    Ford    Star 
Jubilee  show^,  Saturday  night,  October  22,  over 
CBS-TV.     Coward  is  making  his  American  TV  debut, 
and  will  include  several  of  the  numbers  he  did  in 
his  recent  night-club  appearance  in  Las  Vegas,  Ne- 
vada.    He  and  Mary  did  most  of  their  rehearsing 
for  this  big  hour-and-a-half  production  in  Coward's 
home  in  the  British  West  Indies  during  September. 

See  Hollywood  With  Louella  Parsons  is  a  brand- 
new  show  on  NBC -TV,  Sunday  nights.     The  famous 
movie  columnist  will  conduct  the  weekly  half -hour 
program,   which   is   to   be   filmed,    using   a   format   of 
interviews  with  television  and  picture  personalities, 
film  clips  and  Hollywood  news. 

The  famed  Grand  Ole  Opry,  for  many  years  one  of 
the  most  popular  country  music  programs  on  radio, 
will  be  seen  this  fall  on  the  ABC -TV  network  every 
fourth   Saturaay,   beginning   October   lo.     It  will 
originate  from  Ryman  Auditorium  in  Nashville,  Ten- 
nessee, the  home  of  Grand  Ole  Opry  since  it  started 
as  a  local  radio  program  back  in  1926.     It  has  been 
on  network  radio  since  1939. 

Dr.   Benjamin   Spock,   the  noted  pediatrician   and 
psychiatrist,  has  been  signed  by  NBC  for  a  series 
of  half-hour  telecasts  on  child  {Continued  on  page  20) 


11 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


872 — Pop  her  on  top  of  your  electric- 
mixer — her  full  skirt  will  protect  it  from 
dust.    Transfers  of  embroidery  motifs,  easy- 
to-follow  pattern.  Use  scraps. 

7378 — Hobby   Horse — the   love   of   your 
youngster's  life.   About  34%  inches  long, 
16  inches  wide  and  22V^   inches  high. 
Actual-size  pattern  included,  with  easy-to- 
follow  number  guide. 

861 — Crochet  these  modern  leaf -design 
doilies  in  two  glowing  colors.    Crocheted 
doilies:  larger  size  161/^  inches,  smaller, 
111/2-  Use  crochet  and  knitting   cotton. 

7135 — Pi-ettiest  covering  for  your  TV  set! 
Smart   combination   of   filet   crochet   and 
regular  crochet  forms  the  new  grape  design. 
TV  square,  25  inches  in  No.  30  mercerized 
cotton;  smaller  in  No.  50;  larger 
in  bedspread  cotton. 

628 — Each  of  these  party-pretty  aprons 
takes  only  one-half  yard !  Use  scraps  for 
pocket;  ribbon  ties.  Embroider  gay  designs. 
Transfers,   tissue   pattern   for   3    half-aprons, 
Medium   Size   only. 

7294 — A  little   toy  that  brings  a   lot   of 
happiness.  Baby  monkey  is  an  amusing  fel- 
low— hang  him  by  his  curly  tail  from  the 
tree.  Sew  monkey  of  2  fabrics  or  the  same 
one   throughout;    13-inch   toy   transfer. 

7257 — Make  this  lovely  leaf-set  to   protect 
enhance  any  style  chair.  Directions  for 
chair  back,  11 V2  x  16;  armrest  7  x  12 
inches.  Use  mercerized  cotton  in  color. 


12 


Send  ttvenly-five  cents  (in  coins)   for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New   York  11,  N.  Y.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class   mailing.   Send   an   additional   25(:   for   Needlecraft    Catalog. 


For  the  Easiest  Permanent 
of  Your  Life  . . . 


SET  IT  / 


Set  yoiir  pin-curls  just  as  you  always  do. 
No  need  for  anyone  to  help. 


V/ET  IT/ 


Apply  CASUAL  lotion  just  once. 
15  minutes  later,  rinse  with  clear  water. 


JA 


t)i>^l9^f^'^ 


FORGET  IT/ 


That's  all  there  is  to  it!  CASUAL  is 

self-neutralizing.  There's  no  resetting. 

Your  work  is  finished ! 


£w- 


Naturally  lovely,  carefree  curls 

that  last  for  weeks  . . . 

Casual  is  the  word  for  it . .  .  soft,  carefree  waves 

and  curls  — never  tight  or  kinky— beautifully  manageable, 

perfect  for  the  new  flattering  hair  styles  that  highlight  the  softer, 

natural  look.  Tonight— give  yourself  the  loveliest  wave 

of  your  life  — a  Casual  pin-curl  permanent! 

takes  just  15  minutes  more  than  setting  your  hair! 

$1.50   PLUS  TAX 


13 


information  bootli 


Young  'un 

Would  you  tell  me  something  about 
Lee  Aaker,  who  plays  Rusty  on  The  Ad- 
ventures of  Rin  Tin  Tin  on  ABC-TV? 

P.J.,  Batavia,  N.  Y. 

Rin  Tin  Tin's  best  friend,  Lee  Aaker, 
is  eleven  years  old  and  all  boy.  He's  in 
the  sixth  grade  at  William  Kelso  Gram- 
mar School,  plays  shortstop  on  the  base- 
ball team,  and  is  an  excellent  swimmer. 
Now  in  his  lucky  seventh  year  in  show 
business,  Lee  debuted  when  he  was  four 
and  joined  his  older  brother.  Dee,  in  a 
song-and-Hance  act.  The  boys  inherit  their 
dancing  ability  from  their  mother,  Mrs. 
Myles  Wilbour  of  Inglewood,  California, 
who  presides  over  a  dance  studio.  .  .  .  Lee 
debuted  on  TV  in  a  West  Coast  children's 
show,  Fantasia  Studio,  Inc.,  and  has  since 
been  seen  on  many  of  the  top  TV  dra- 
matic shows,  including  Ford  Theater.  He 
also  played  the  crippled  boy  in  "Benjy," 
which  won  an  Oscar  as  the  best  docu- 
mentary film  of  the  year,  and  has  ap- 
peared in  other  films  such  as  "Hondo" 
and  "Ricochet  Romance." 

Stage  Family 

Would  you  please  tell  me  about  Claudia 
Morgan,  who  plays  Carolyn  Nelson  in 
The  Right  To  Happiness  on  NBC? 

L.H.,  Appleton,  Wis. 

The  daughter  of  actor  Ralph  Morgan 
and  the  niece  of  comedian  Frank  Morgan. 
Claudia  Morgan  has  shown  a  versatility 
in  her  career  to  make  all  members  of 
her  show-business  family  more  than  proud. 
.  .  .  Born  in  New  York  City,  she  was 
christened  Claudeigh  but,  since  no  one 
ever  spelled  it  right,  she  was  Claudia  at 
school  at  Ely  Court  in  Connecticut  and 
Miss  Dow's,  now  in  Briarcliff,  New  York. 
At  sixteen,  she  took  time  out  from  school 
to  make  her  stage  debut  opposite  her 
father  in  "Gypsy  April."  Since  that  time, 
Claudia  has  appeared  in  some  thirty-eight 
Broadway  productions,  including  "Call  It 


14 


Lee  Aaker  and  Rin  Tin  Tin 


a  Day,"  "Accent  on  Youth,"  "The  Man 
Who  Came  to  Dinner,"  "Ten  Little  In- 
dians" and  "Venus  Observed."  ...  In 
Hollywood,  she  has  been  seen  in  such 
films  as  "Stand  Up  and  Fight,"  "That's 
My  Story,"  and  "Vanity  Street."  Claudia 
was  well-known  for  eight  years  as  Nora 
Charles  on  radio's  The  Thin  Man.  Aside 
from  her  role  as  Carolyn  Nelson  in  The 
Right  To  Happiness,  television  has  show- 
cased Claudia  in  Way  Of  The  World, 
Robert  Montgomery  Present's,  Armstrong 
Circle  Theater,  Television  Theater  and 
other  top  programs.  .  .  .  Claudia's  hob- 
bies are  painting  and  playing  the  piano 
and  her  favorite  art  and  music  critic  is 
her  husband,  Kenneth  Loane,  a  realtor. 

Crooner  With  Muscles 

Would  you  give  me  some  information 
on  Dick  Lee,  who  sings  on  Ted  Mack's 
Matinee  on  NBC-TV? 

A.S.,  Memphis,  Tenn. 

The  son  of  a  police  detective,  Ted 
Mack's  "Young  Man  of  Song"  hails  from 
Philadelphia.  Dick  Lee's  first  love  was 
boxing  and  his  sturdy  build  and  lightning 
reflexes  won  him  a  number  of  local  cham- 
pionships. But  Dick  also  loved  to  listen 
to  music,  anything  from  be-bop  to  the 
classics,  and  he  was  soon  flexing  his  ton- 
sils as  well  as  his  muscles.  Still  planning 
on  a  boxing  career,  he  was  a  Golden 
Gloves  contender.  But  after  this  success- 
ful start,  Dick  fractured  his  nose  in  one 
of  his  bouts  and,  when  his  worried  mother 
begged  him  to  hang  up  his  gloves,  Dick 
turned  to  the  singing  arena.  His  first 
professional  engagement  was  in  a  small 
New  Jersey  night  club  where  he  was  held 
over  for  twenty-six  consecutive  weeks.  He 
went  on  to  become  a  winner  on  the  Arthur 
Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts  program  and  on 
Chance  Of  A  Lifetime.  He's  scored  with 
such  Essex  recordings  as  "Infatuation," 
"Eternally"  and  "I  Thought  You  Might 
Be  Lonely"  and  appeared  at  such  swank 
night  spots  as  the  Sahara  in  Las  Vegas 
and    the    Latin    Quarter    in    New    York. 

Gal  About  Sports 

/  would  like  to  know  about  Marcia 
Henderson,  who  plays  Mickey  Riley  on 
Dear  Phoebe  on  NBC-TV. 

D.B.,  Niagara  Falls,  Ont. 

Pert  Marcia  Henderson  is  well-prepared 
for  her  role  as  a  female  sportswriter  in 
Dear  Phoebe.  As  a  high  school  student, 
she  was  a  cheerleader,  played  on  the 
basketball  and  soccer  teams  and  was  a 
swimming  life  guard  instructor  for  the 
Girl  Scouts.  On  the  journalistic  side,  she 
edited  her  school  paper  and  was  local 
correspondent  on  sports  for  tlie  near-by 
North  Adams  Transcript  and  the  Pitts- 
field  Eagle.  .  .  .  Born  in  Andover,  Marcia 
grew  up  in  Williamstown,  Massachusetts, 
where  her  father  owns  a  large  clothing 
store.  Following  high  school,  she  came 
to  New  York  to  study  at  the  American 
Academy  of  Dramatic  Arts.    Then,   after 


Marcia  Henderson 


financing  her  pavement-pounding  with  a 
job  as  a  Carnegie  Hall  usherette,  Marcia 
got  her  first  break  with  the  role  of  Kath- 
leen Anderson  in  the  Henry  Aldrich  TV 
series.  Next  came  appearances  on  many 
top  television  shows  and  her  own  show. 
Two  Girls  Named  Smith.  .  .  .  Marcia 
debuted  on  Broadway  in  1950  as  Wendy 
in  "Peter  Pan,"  winning  the  Critics  Award 
and  the  Theater  World  Award.  After  tour- 
ing in  the  lead  of  "The  Moon  Is  Blue," 
she  arrived  in  Hollywood  for  roles  in  such 
films  as  "Thunder  Bay,"  "All  I  Desire," 
"Back  to  God's  Country,"  "The  Glass 
Web"  and  "The  Naked  Alibi."  .  .  .  Marcia 
has  an  excellent  voice  and  hopes  to  com- 
bine singing  and  acting  in  a  twin  career. 
Meanwhile,  she  shares  a  three-room  Holly- 
wood apartment  with  a  Siamese  cat  called 
Sam.  She  belongs  to  a  dramatic  study 
group,  the  Stage  Society,  is  "up"  on  all 
English  poets  and  most  of  the  prose  writ- 
ers, and  is  especially  fascinated  by  philos- 
ophy and  Hindu  writings. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested  in  joining, 
write  to  the  address  given: 

Saints  and  Spinners  (Bill  Silbert),  c/o 
Alfreda  Baker,  3920  Lyme  Ave.,  Brook- 
lyn 24,  N.  Y. 

The  Chica-Lees  (Dick  Lee),  c/o  D. 
Jankus,  2847  S.  Kedvale,  Chicago  23,  111. 

Richard  Kiley  Fan  Club,  c/o  Rosalie 
Galossi,  34-34  30th  St.,  Astoria  6,  N.  Y. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


PALMOLIVE  SOAP  CAN  GIVE  YOU  A 


GETS  HIDDEN  DIRT  THAT  ORDINARY  CLEANSING  METHODS  MISS  ! 


Dirt  left  on  face  after  ordinary 
I,  cleansing!  Ruh  your  face  hard  with  a 
cotton  pad  after  ordinary  casual  cleansing 
with  any  soap  or  cold  cream.  You'll  see 
that  you  didn't  remove  deep-down  dirt  and 
make-up.  "Ordinary-clean"  is  just 
superficially  clean! 


Beautifully  clean  after  60-seconcl 
,  Palmolive  facial !  Rub  your  face  the 
same  way  after  60-second  massage  with 
Palmolive.  Pad  is  still  snowy-white! 
'^Palmolive-clean"  is  deep-down  clean. 
Your  skin  is  free  of  clinging  dirt  that 
casual  cleansing  misses. 


C^^S^T^^^ 


CAN   WORK  SO  THOROUGHLY  YET  SO   GENTLY! 
PALMOLIVE  BEAUTY  CARE  CLEANS  CLEANER,  CLEANS  DEEPER,  WITHOUT  IRRITATION! 

Doctors  bave  proved  that  Palmolive  beauty  care  can  give  you  a 
cleaner,  fresher  complexion  the  very  first  time  you  use  it!  That's 
because  Palmolive  care  gets  your  skin  deep-down  clean  by  removing 
the  hidden,  clinging  dirt  that  casual  methods  miss. 


Here's  the  easy  method:  Just  massage  your  face  with 
Palmolive's  rich,  gentle  lather  for  60  seconds,  morning  and 
night.  Rinse  and  pat  dry.  It's  that  simple!  But  remember  .  .  . 
only  a  soap  that  is  truly  mild  can  cleanse  thoroughly  without 
leaving  your  face  feeling  drawn  and  uncomfortable.  That's  why 
Palmolive's  mildness  is  so  important  to  you.  Try  mild  Palmolive 
Soap  today  for  new  complexion  beauty! 

DOCTORS  PROVE  PALMOLIVE'S  BEAUTY  RESULTS! 


JMlomclQ^^ 


15 


ALL  IN 
FUN 


To  WRGB-TV  viewers,  Dave  Cameron 

is  a  man  of  many  delightful  characterizations, 

the  best  of  ivhich  is  Dave  himself 


Foursome  in  the  Kiddy  Korner  are  Luke  the  Spook, 
Albert,  Gertrude — and  Dave.  The  young  crowd  at 
left  jannmed  the  Glenville  Fire  Dept.  to  meet  Dave. 


Dave  checks  his  skin-diving  apparatus  as  ex-baby- 
sitter Marty  keeps  an  eye  on  her  own  young  Connie. 


16 


ELEVEN  SEPARATE  and  distinct  personalities,  plus  an 
occasional  transient,  inhabit  one  dressing  room  at 
the  Station  WRGB-TV  studios  in  Schenectady.  Fortu- 
nately, there's  still  enough  elbow  room — for  only  one, 
Dave  Cameron,  is  man-sized.  The  others  are  his  puppet- 
sized  alter  egos.  .  .  .  For  the  youngsters,  Albert,  Ger- 
trude, and  Luke  the  Spook  rule  "The  Kiddy  Korner" 
on  the  Dave  Cameron  Show,  seen  weekdays  at  1:30  P.M. 
This  is  a  one-man  variety  show  which  Dave  runs  with 
the  help  of  a  telephone,  his  puppets  and  an  active  imagi- 
nation. Jr.  Fire  Fighter  and  Silly  Nilly  teach  fire  safety 
and  prevention  and  the  rules  of  good  behavior  on  the 
Friendly  Fireman  Show,  weekdays  at  5  P.M.  The  casts 
also  include  Lord  Crumpet,  Gretchen  Got-Rocks,  Texas 
Tim,  Auntie  Flo  and  Daniel  Goone,  who  present  the 
"Dilly  of  the  Day"  to  ventriloquist  Cameron's  large 
audience  of  mothers,  youngsters  and  old-timers.  Occa- 
sionally, there  are  guests  such  as  the  Mad  Scientist  who, 
in  answer  to  General  Electric's  development  of  "man- 
made  diamonds,"  tried  to  grow  man-made  pearls  in  an 
oyster.    He  failed.  .  .  .  Born  and  educated  in  Philadel- 


phia, Dave  has  worked  as  an  actor,  writer,  producer  and 
director  in  radio,  TV  and  night  clubs  in  the  Pennsyl- 
vania-New Jersey-New  York  area.  He  joined  WRGB 
in  1952.  ...  In  his  travels,  Dave  acquired  three  hobbies, 
all  of  which  have  been  worked  into  his  shows.  Dave 
docked  his  cabin  cruiser,  the  "Studio  C,"  at  the  Mohawk 
River,  behind  the  WRGB  building,  for  a  special  telecast. 
Diving  tanks  were  installed  in  the  station's  back  yard  so 
that  Dave  could  telecast  an  exhibition  of  his  skin-diving. 
And,  for  a  "late  to  work"  theme  on  one  show,  Dave  went 
motorcycling  in  long  flannel  nightshirt  and  stocking  cap. 
Dave  also  drives  a  Cadillac.  .  .  .  But  hobbies  take  second 
place  to  the  family  at  the  new  five-room  Cameron  home 
in  Briarcliff  Village.  Dave  met  his  wife  Marty  when  she 
was  baby-sitting  for  his  older  brother  in  Philadelphia. 
Now  married  four  years,  they  have  a  baby-sitter  of 
their  own  these  days  for  two-year-old  Connie.  Dave, 
in  his  exuberant  praise  of  Connie,  says,  "She  knows  all 
my  sponsors  by  sight."  .  .  .  And  speaking  of  sights,  one 
of  the  most  ever -welcome  ones  in  Schenectady  is  Dave 
Cameron  himself,  on  TV  or  in  person. 


iStHfi 


isty 


for 


the  greatest  gridiron 


season 


in  broadcasting  V 


and  here's  the 

schedule  of  2© 

thrilling  gannes 

^with  2S  famous 

teams— that  America 

will  tune  to 


TOP    COLLEGE    CLASSICS 

Saturdays 

Exciting  Games  with  a  Climax-  Army  v.  Navyt 

Oct.  15  Notre  Dame  v.  Michigan  State 

Oct.  22  Notre  Dame  v.  Purdue 

Oct.  29  North  v^estern  v.  Ohio  State 

Nov.  5  Notre  Dame  v.  Pennsylvania 

Nov.  12  Notre  Dame  v.  North  Carolina 

Nov.  19  Ohio  State  v.  Michigan 

Nov.  26  Florida  v.  Miami 

Nov.  26  Army  v.  Navy  (at  Philadelphia) 

Note:  Second  named  teom  in  each  gome  (except 
Army  V.  Navy)  it  the  home  teom.° 

Friday  Nights 

Big  Games  of  the  University  of  Miami  I 

Oct.  7  Notre  Dame  University 

Oct.  21  Texas  Christian  University 

Nov.  4  Boston  College 

Nov.  II  Bucknell  University 

Nov.  18  University  of  Alabama 

Note:  AM  games  originating  from  Orange  Bowl  Stadium  in  Miami. 

And  Two  College  All-Star  Games  on  Dec.  31  f 

East-\A/est  Shrine  Game 

from  Kezar  Stadium,  San  Francisco 

Blue-Gray  Game 

from  Crampton  Bowl,  Montgomery,  Ala. 

TOP    PRO    SCHEDULES 

Big  Battles  of  the  GreatestI 

Oct.  29      Green  Bay  PacKers  v.  Baltimore  Colts 
Nov.  5        Baltimore  Colts  v.  Detroit  Lions  OR 

Pittsburgh  Steelers  v.  Chicago  Cardinals     ( 
Nov.  12       Detroit  Lions  v.  Pittsburgh  Steelers  j 

Nov.  24     (Thanksgiving)  Green  Bay  Packers  v.  Detroit  Lions 


Note:  Except  where  indicated,  second  named  team  is  the  home  team. 

Power  Struggles  of  the  Detroit  Lions  I 

Oct.  16  San  Francisco  49ers  at  Detroit 

Oct.  23  Los  Angeles  Rams  at  Los  Angeles 

Oct.  30  San  Francisco  49ers  at  San  Francisco 

Nov.  5  Baltimore  Colts  at  Detroit 

Nov.  13  Pittsburgh  Steelers  at  Pittsburgh 

Nov.  20  Chicago  Bears  at  Detroit 

Nov.  24  Green  Bay  Packers  at  Detroit 

Dec.  4  Chicago  Bears  at  Chicago 

Dec.  II  New  York  Giants  at  Detroit 

Mutual  Broadcasting  System 

(See  local  listings  for  broadcast  time.) 


17 


ime  Diary 


All  programs   are  heard  Monday  through  Friday;    consult 
local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


BACKSTAGE  WIFE  As  Mary  Noble 
fights  to  prevent  actress  Elise  Shephard 
from  breaking  up  her  marriage  to  Larry, 
another  sinister  threat  appears  in  the  shab- 
by, strange  form  of  Madame  Moleska. 
Should  Mary  seek  out  this  mysterious 
woman  for  guidance?  Or  would  she  be 
wiser  to  avoid  all  contact  with  her?  How 
will  she  affect  Elise's  relationship  with 
Larry,  and  Larry's  Hollywood  career? 
Even  if  Mary  knew  the  answers,  would 
she  act  differently?   CBS  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTER  DAY  When  Lydia 
Harrick's  husband  died,  she  willingly 
devoted  herself  to  his  brother  Don,  be- 
lieving in  the  need  he  professed  for  her 
understanding  and  help  in  rebuilding  his 
self-confidence  and  his  career  as  an  archi- 
tect. But  Max  Canfield's  love  shatters 
Lydia's  self-delusion,  and  she  now  sees 
that  Don  will  go  to  any  length  to  maintain 
his  power  over  her.  Can  Dr.  Randy  Hamil- 
ton help  her  before  Don  ruins  her  life? 
CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

FIRST  LOVE  With  Zach  now  vindicted 
of  the  false  murder  charge,  and  a  new 
understanding  strengthening  their  mar- 
riage, Laurie  and  Zach  are  audacious 
enough  to  expect  smooth  sailing  as  Zach 
resumes  his  increasingly  important  work 
for  the  Army.  But  the  sudden,  completely 
unheralded  appearance  of  Zach's  long- 
silent  father  makes  a  few  changes  in  the 
picture.  What  happens  to  Zach  as  this  pro- 
found emotional  shock  hits  him?  NBC-TV. 

THE  Ct/IDfiVC  I.f C0T  Although  Kathy 
knows  that  the  lie  on  which  she  founded 
her  marriage  to  Dick  was  responsible  for 
its  break-up,  she  now  realizes  that  she 
will  never  stop  loving  him.  Is  she  heading 
for  tragedy  in  not  putting  him  out  of  her 
mind?  Occupied  with  his  resuming  his 
surgical  career  and  concerned  over  the 
failing  eyesight  of  the  young  painter, 
Marie,  whom  he  met  in  New  York,  has 
Dick  any  intention  of  letting  Kathy  back 
T    into  his  life?   CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

«    'If  ST  PLAIIV  BILL    As    Bill   Davidson 
sees  the  clouds  of  danger  gathering  around 


him,  he  tries  to  avert  the  threat  coming 
ever  closer  to  his  own  family — to  his  be- 
loved daughter  Nancy  and  to  her  hus- 
band Kerry  Donovan.  Can  Bill  convince 
Nancy  that  his  interpretation  of  Arline 
Wilton's  actions  is  the  right  one?  Or  will 
Nancy's  impatience  lead  her  and  her  loved 
ones  into  complications  more  dangerous 
than  anyone  realizes?   NBC  Radio. 

LORENZO  JONES  After  the  long,  heart- 
breaking months  of  struggle.  Belle  Jones 
knows  a  flash  of  feverish  hope  as  Lorenzo 
appears  to  have  regained  his  memory.  For 
a  brief  space  he  recalls  her  and  their 
marriage,  and  Belle  believes  that  at  last 
everything  will  come  right  again.  So  her 
despair  is  almost  complete  when  the  light 
goes  out,  and  once  again  Lorenzo's  dam- 
aged memory  is  a  blank  on  the  subject  of 
everything  she  holds  dear.  NBC  Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  An  old  enemy  returns 
to  Vanessa  Raven's  life  with  a  brsind-new 
threat,  and  her  apprehension  mounts  to 
near-despair  as  she  sees  the  Browns,  led 
by  the  bitter,  vengeful  Kevin,  systemati- 
cally setting  out  to  ruin  Paul's  new  law 
career,  her  own  happiness,  and — what  is 
more  important  to  her  now — the  possible 
rehabilitation  of  the  unfortunate  little 
girl  she  has  come  to  love.  What  will  Van 
do  about  it?  CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  With  the  disappearance 
of  his  infant  daughter,  Ma's  adopted  son 
Joe  reaches  a  crisis  in  his  heretofore  hap- 
py marriage  to  Gladys.  Instead  of  uniting 
the  two  in  a  desperate  effort  to  regain 
their  child,  the  strain  widens  a  breach 
between  them.  Confident  that  they  will 
find  the  baby.  Ma  is  less  certain  of  the 
future  of  this  marriage  over  which  she  has 
watched  with  such  high  hopes.  Will  Joe's 
secretary,  Harriet,  have  the  final  answer? 
CBS  Radio. 

ONE  MAN'S  FAMILY  It  is  a  strange 
experience  for  the  elder  Barbours  to  see 
their  children  trying  to  handle  the  same 
problems  they  created  when  they  them- 
selves were  children.  Has  anything  really 
new  been  discovered  about  children  dur- 


ing the  past  few  years?  Or  are  the  prin- 
ciples Mother  and  Father  Barbour  fol- 
lowed still  so  sound  that,  almost  without 
knowing  it,  their  children  are  applying 
them  to  the  youngest  generation?  NBC 
Radio. 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  Leslie  Northhurst's 
murder  plunges  the  Brinthropes  into  fear- 
ful danger  as  Lord  Henry  seems  almost 
certain  to  pay  for  a  crime  he  did  not 
commit.  Despite  Henry's  bitterness  over 
what  he  considers  the  suspicious  aspects 
of  Sunday's  relationship  with  Leslie,  she 
endangers  her  own  life  to  find  the  proof 
of  his  innocence.  Will  her  desperate  efforts 
convince  Henry  that  his  suspicions  were 
completely  misguided?   CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER  YOUNG'S  FAMILY  Carter 
Trent's  separation  from  his  wife  and 
family  would  be  unendurable,  even  though 
he  undertook  it  voluntarily  in  order  to 
spare  them  hardship,  if  it  were  not  for  the 
fervent  friendship  of  the  pretty  young 
singer,  Noel.  Will  gratitude  and  loneliness 
lead  Carter  into  an  involvement  he  is  not 
really  prepared  to  take  on?  Or  will  it  be 
Noel  who  takes  a  hand  in  straightening 
out  Carter's  and  Peggy's  lives?  NBC  Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  Sam  Merriweather  is 
the  center  of  an  empire  of  power  and 
wealth,  and  Perry  Mason  knows  that  any 
assault  upon  a  man  so  influential  will  not 
be  made  in  a  spirit  of  childish  play  or  by 
plotters  unprepared  to  go  to  considerable 
lengths  to  gain  their  ends.  But,  although 
Perry  suspects  the  general  outlines  of  the 
plot,  will  he  learn  the  details  in  time  to 
save  Sam's  daughter  from  the  fate  being 
prepared  for  her?  CBS  Radio. 

r0£    Ricirr    to  happiness   a 

new  phase  of  Carolyn's  life  opens  as, 
alone  after  years  of  fighting  side  by  side 
with  Miles,  she  struggles  to  save  his  name 
and  her  own  from  the  enemies  who  finally 
achieved  his  death.  Can  she  manage  to 
present  the  truth  so  that  it  triumphs  over 
the  lies  and  doubts  being  spread  about 
her?  Or  will  she  be  forced  to  watch  the 
machine    go    to   work    once    more    in   the 


vicious  manner  she  knows  all  too  well? 
NBC  Radio. 

THE  ROAD  OF  LiFE  All  the  force  of 
Sibyl  Overton's  warped  personality  has 
gone  into  her  fierce  attempt  to  gain  Dr. 
Jim  Brent's  love  and,  in  spite  of  the  re- 
peated warnings  of  her  more  clear-sighted 
father,  she  insists  on  believing  that  since 
Jocelyn  Brent  was  forced  to  leave  the 
country  she  has  made  great  strides  toward 
her  goal.  What  will  happen  when  she 
realizes  that  Jim  has  pretended  affection 
in  order  to  learn  how  Sibyl  framed  Joce- 
lyn's  deportation?   CBS  Radio. 

THE  nOMAJSCE  OF  HELE.V  TREXT 

Although  Gil  Whitney's  wife  has  prom- 
ised to  end  their  pointless  marriage,  Helen 
is  half  afraid  to  hope,  knowing  that  Cyn- 
thia is  not  likely  to  make  things  easy  for 
Gil.  She  does  not  suspect  that  in  a  way 
Gil's  attractive  secretary  is  part  of  Cyn- 
thia's plan,  but  she  does  know  that  sud- 
denly Fay  Granville  has  become  more 
important  than  a  secretary  ought  to  be.  Is 
Gil  infatuated  with  Fay?   CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH  FOR  TOMORROW'  Over- 
done loyalty  to  his  employer  gets  Stu 
Bergman  into  one  of  the  worst  jams  of 
his  life,  and  overdone  gallantry  keeps 
him  there,  as  he  champions  Mr.  Gunther's 
niece  Melanie  against  the  withering  ac- 
cusations so  freely  spread  about  town  by 
her  former  suitor.  Will  Henderson  begin 
to  wonder  just  why  Stu  is  so  vehement 
in  Melanie's  defense?  Will  his  wife  Marge 
wonder?  And  will  Melanie  herself  begin 
to  get  ideas?   CBS-TV. 

THE       SECOXD       MRS.       BIRTOX 

Wealthy  Mrs.  Burton  is  the  kind  of  wom- 
an who  cannot  resist  trying  to  run  her 
children's  lives.  In  a  recent  heroic  effort 
to  provide  her  with  other  interests,  Stan 
Burton  and  his  sister,  Marcia  Archer, 
found  they  had  jumped  from  the  frying 
pan  into  the  fire.  With  the  introduction  of 
Buck  Halliday  into  Mother  Burton's  life, 
a  host  of  new  problems  loomed  up.  How 
will  Stan  react  if  the  problems  are  settled 
in  Halliday's  way?   CBS  Radio. 

THE  SECRET  STORM  Hoping  for  a 
chance  at  happiness  with  Jane,  Peter 
Ames  tries  to  convince  her  and  himself 
that  her  fear  and  self-doubt  are  due  to  her 
physical  weakness.  But  Jane's  apprehen- 
sions have  a  firmer  base,  for  the  young 
husband  who  was  supposed  to  have  died 
overseas  ten  years  before  is  very  much 
ahve,  and  so  is  his  memory  of  Jane.  Will 
Pauline  Tyrell,  who  still  loves  Peter,  find 
a  way  of  taking  advantage  of  Bruce's  re- 
turn?  CBS-TV. 

STELLA  DALLAS  Stanley  Warrick's  long 
campaign  to  break  up  Laurel's  marriage 
appears  close  to  success  as  Dick  Grosve- 
nor  files  suit  for  divorce  even  though,  as 
Stella  knows,  he  and  Laurel  still  love  each 
other.  Must  Stella  stand  by  and  see  her 
beloved  daughter  enter  into  a  second  mar- 
riage that  cannot  possibly  bring  her  any 
happiness?  Is  there  any  way  in  which 
Stella  can  influence  events  so  that  so  many 
fives  will  not  be  wrecked?  NBC  Radio. 

THIS   IS   XORA    DRAKE   Just   before 

George    Brown's    death,    he    reveals    that 

David  was  right  in  suspecting  that  some- 

(Continued  on  page  25) 


New  lOOX  Hon- Alkaline 

PALMOLIVE  Q^  SHAMPOO 


Removes  ALKALINE  FILM 

that  clouds  Hair  Beauty! 


Gentles  your  hair  as  it  cleans  and  sheensl 

Leaves  it  more  obedient,  easier  to  set! 

Will  not  dry  or  devitalize! 


You  may  never  have  seen  the  true  beauty  of  your  hair 
until  you  try  new  Palmolive  Soft  Shampoo.  For  this 
new  100%  non-alkaline  shampoo  gentles  your  hair. 
Sheens  it  to  its  natural  loveliness.  Softens  it  so  curls 
set  easier  .  .  .  and  slay  set  longer. 

New  Palmolive  Soft  Shampoo  contains  no  harsh, 
drying,  devitalizing  chemicals  ...  no  sticky  oils  ...  no 
dulling  alkali.  And  its  exclusive  100%  non-alkaline 
formula  agrees  with  the  natural,  healthy,  non-alkaline 
condition  of  your  scalp  and  hair. 

So  remove  alkaline  film  that  clouds  hair  heauty  with 
new — and  oh,  so  gentle — Palmolive  Soft  Shampoo. 


Scientific  photomicrograph 
shows  how  a  film  of  alkaline 
dust,  dirt,  smog  can  coat  each 
hair  .  .  .  dull  the  luster  and 
color  .  .  .  make  hair  limp  so 
curls  just  won't  stay  set. 


PALMOLIVE 


See  how  the  exclusive  100'^ 
non-alkaline  formula  of 
Palmolive  Soft  Shampoo  re- 
moves alkaline  film.  Leaves 
more  luster,  natural  color! 
Curls  set  easier,  last  longer. 

SHAMPOO 


Lets  Hair  Behave  and  Hold  a  "Wave 


19 


SURVEY  SHOWS  ANSWERS  FROM 


NUKoto  suggest 

DOUCHING  m,k 
ZONITE  sor 

feminine  hygiene 

Brides-to-Be  and  Married  Women 
Should  Know  These  Intimate  Facts 

Every  well-informed  woman  who 
values  her  health,  physical  charm 
and  married  happiness,  knows  how 
necessary  a  cleansing,  deodorizing 
douche  is  for  intimate  feminine  clean- 
liness and  after  monthly  periods. 
Douching  has  become  such  an  es- 
sential practice  in  the  modern  way  of 
life,  another  survey  showed  that  of 
the  married  women  asked — 83.3% 
douche  after  monthly  periods  and 
86.5%  at  other  times. 

It's  a  great  assurance  for  women  to 
know  that  zonite  is  so  highly  thought 
of  among  these  nurses.  Scientific  tests 
PROVED  no  other  type  liquid  anti- 
septic-germicide for  the  douche  of  all 
those  tested  is  so  powerfully  ef- 
fective yet  so  SAFE  to  body  tissues. 

ZONITE's  Many  Advantages 

ZONITE  is  a  powerful  antiseptic- 
germicide  yet  is  positively  non-poi- 
sonous, non-irritating.  You  can  use 
it  as  often  as  needed  without  the 
slightest  risk  of  injury.  A  zonite 
douche  immediately  washes  away 
germs  and  waste  deposits. 
It  effectively  deodorizes  and 
leaves  you  with  a  wonderful 
sense  of  well-being  and  con- 
fidence— so  refreshed  and 
dainty.  Inexpensive — zonite 
costs  only  a  few  pennies  per 
douche.  Use  as  directed. 


If  any  abnormal  condi- 
tion exists,  see  your  doctor. 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST 

{Continued  from  page   11) 


;s  away 

tmSm 


Burr  Tills+rom  takes  a  brief  pup- 
peteer's holiday  from  Kukla, 
Fran  And  Ollie  for  the  NBC-TV 
"Alice  in  Wonderland,"  Oct.  23. 

care  and  development,  beginning  Sunday 
afternoon,  October  9.  Titled  Dr.  Spock, 
the  program  will  be  directed  especially  at 
parents  and  prospective  parents.  The  for- 
mat will  be  varied,  covering  many  ques- 
tions dealing  with  child-rearing  from  both 
the  medical  and  psychological  viewpoints. 
Dr.  Spock  is  well  known  to  millions  of 
mothers  throughout  the  world  as  author  of 
the  famous  book,  Baby  and  Child  Care, 
which  has  sold  more  than  seven  million 
copies  and  has  been  published  in  many 
languages  for  overseas  editions. 

Two  interesting  productions  are  slated 
on  NBC-TV's  "spectacular"  schedule.  The 
first  is  "Cyrano  de  Bergerac,"  starring 
Jose  Ferrer  in  his  famous  role,  on  Pro- 
ducers' Showcase,  Monday  night,  October 
17.  It  will  be  an  hour-and-a-half  show, 
done  in  color  and  in  black  and  white. 

The  second  is  the  Hallmark  Hall  Of  Fame 
show  on  Sunday  night,  October  23 — also 
ninety  minutes,  and  also  in  color.  Maurice 
Evans  will  present  "Alice  in  Wonderland," 


Gunsmoke  flashes  on  TV  screens, 
with  Amanda  Blake  as  Kitty,  James 
Arness    as     Marshal     Matt     Dillon. 


20 


Miss  Frances — Dr.  Frances  Nor- 
wich of  Ding  Dong  School — wrote 
three  new  storybooks,  then  took 
a  teacher's  vacation  in  Bermuda. 

co-starring  Eva  Le  Gallienne,  Burr  Till- 
strom  and  Bobby  Clark.  "Alice"  will  be 
played  by  an  unknown  English  girl,  four- 
teen-year-old Gillian  Barber,  whom  Evans 
discovered  in  a  dramatic  school  in  London. 
Evans  will  not  have  a  part  in  the  play,  but 
he  will  introduce  the  characters  and  scenes, 
in  addition  to  producing  and  directing. 
Richard  Addinsell,  who  composed  the 
"Warsaw  Concerto,"  has  written  a  special 
"Alice  in  Wonderland"  score. 

CBS-TV  has  announced  a  most  impres- 
sive list  of  shows  to  be  done  this  fall  on 
their  Omnibus  series,  with  exact  dates  still 
to  be  set.  Included  will  be  such  productions 
as  a  musical-comedy  version  of  the  classic, 
"Hans  Brinker  or  the  Silver  Skates";  a 
documentary  on  the  Renaissance  period, 
"The  Birth  of  Modern  Times,"  to  be  written 
by  Life  Magazine's  Robert  Coughlan; 
"Boyhood  Reminiscence,"  with  cartoonist 
James  Thurber;  "The  Battle  of  Gettys- 
burg," to  be  written  by  Bruce  Catton, 
Pulitzer  Prize  winner;  and  "American  Con- 
stitution," which  will  feature  Joseph 
Welch,  the  famous  attorney  of  the  Mc- 
Carthy-Army hearings. 

Jumping  from  culture  to  quiz,  we  note 
that  CBS  Radio  is  now  carrying  The 
$64,000  Question  on  Tuesday  nights.  This 
program  has  the  very  top  rating  of  all  TV 
shows  and,  now  that  it  will  be  simulcast, 
the  radio  rating  should  be  a  big  one,  too. 

The  popular  Zoo  Parade  will  be  back  on 
NBC's  Sunday-afternoon  TV  schedule  on 
October  16.  Marlin  Perkins,  who  conducts 
the  show,  will  present  many  new  animals 
acquired  on  his  recent  African  and  Euro- 
pean safaris.  Perkins  "swapped"  animals, 
which  were  available  on  the  American 
Zoological  surplus  list,  for  odd  and  un- 
usual "creatures"  obtainable  in  foreign 
zoos,  and  is  proud  of  the  fact  that  no  guns 
were  used  to  "capture"  any  of  these  me- 
nagerie  additions. 

My  Friend  Flicka,  which  was  a  best- 
selling  book  and  a  popular  movie,  is  now 
a  television  series,  which  has  just  started  on 
CBS  on  Friday  nights.  It's  a  half-hour 
show,  filmed  in  Hollywood,  and  features 
Anita  Louise,  Johnny  Washbrook  and 
Gene  Evans. 

Another  new  and  interesting  TV  series 
has  also  debuted  on  CBS— Adventures  Of 
Rohin  Hood.  This  was  filmed  entirely  in 
England,  in  full  costume  and  using  authen- 


TO  COAST 


Valiant  Lady's  new  romance  is 
Elliott  Norris,  played  by  Terry 
O'Sullivan,  noted  actor-husband 
of  well-known  actress  Jon  Miner. 


He  backgrounds.  Richard  Greene  is  Robin 
Hood,  Ian  Hunter  plays  Sir  Richard,  and 
Bernadetle  O'Farrell  is  Maid  Marian. 

This  'n'  That: 

Jo  Stafford  and  her  husband,  Paul  Wes- 
ton, are  expecting  an  addition  to  the  family 
about  the  middle  of  February,  so  it  is 
doubtful  whether  Jo  will  do  any  television 
this  season.  The  Westons  have  one  son, 
Timothy,  who  will  be  three  years  old  next 
month,  so  they're  hoping  for  a  girl. 

1-iberace's  filmed  TV  show  has  just  made 
its  debut  in  England,  with  the  beginning  of 
commercial  television  there.  Guild  Films, 
which  distributes  "Mr.  Candelabra's"  se- 
ries, has  arranged  for  three  English  sta- 
tions to  carry  the  program. 

Tim  Considine  has  been  signed  by  Walt 
Disney  to  star  as  Spin  in  the  "Spin  and 
Marty"  series  which  will  be  part  of  The 
Mickey  Mouse  Club  show  on  ABC-TV. 
Tim,  who  is  fifteen,  has  appeared  in  movies 
and  got  his  film  start  with  Red  Skelton  in 
"The  Clown." 

Dr.  Frances  Horwich,  "Miss  Frances"  of 
NBC's  Ding  Dong  School,  has  written  three 
new  storybooks  for  children,  which  have 
been  published  by  Rand  McNally.  Mr. 
Meyer's  Cow,  Jingle  Bell  Jack,  and  Our 
Baby  are  the  latest  additions  to  the  series, 
which  now  includes  eighteen  titles. 

Marion  Marlowe  and  her  producer  hus- 
band, Larry  Puck,  took  off  for  a  delayed 
honeymoon  trip  to  Honolulu,  following  her 
successful  night-club  appearance  in  Las 
Vegas.  Upon  her  return,  she  is  scheduled 
for  TV  guest  shots  and  will  appear  in  the 
Ed  Sullivan  movie  which  the  Toast  Of  The 
Town  host  will  make  for  Warner  Bros. 

Dick  Haymes'  career  is  looking  up  these 
days,  although  the  crooner's  personal 
problems  continue  to  make  newspaper 
headlines.  Dick  has  just  been  signed  by 
Capitol  Records  and  has  several  night-club 
bookings  in  the  offing,  following  his  Las 
Vegas   "comeback"   appearance. 

Singer  Betty  Clooney  and  bandleader 
Pupi  Canipo  obtained  a  marriage  license  in 
New  York  City,  and  may  be  wed  by  the 
time  you  read  this.  Theirs  was  a  television 
romance  which  began  when  they  met  on 
the  Jack  Paar  show. 

CBS  Television  and  United  Productions 
of  America  have  entered  into  a  long-term 
(Continued  on  page  22) 


Want  a  good  group  project  this  fall? 

n  An  off-beof  treat  Q  Bird  watching  Q  A  quilting  bee 


Ask  the  crowd  — how  about  planning  some- 
thing special  for  their  moms,  come  Thanks- 
giving? A  really  off-beat  treat  for  the  lady 
who  cooks  the  turkey  dinner?  Then  pool 
your  wits  and  wallets;  throw  a  theatre  party 
with  the  mothers  as  honored  guests.  They'll 
love  it  — this  fun  way  of  thanking  them  for 


being  "the  most,"  pal-wise!  And  wasn't  it 
your  mom,  too,  who  taught  you  how  to 
smile  through  certain  days?  Yes.  Because 
she  helped  you  choose  Kotex*  for  softness, 
safety  you  can  trust  .  .  .  the  complete 
absorbency  you  need.  You  see,  she  knew  that 
confidence  and  Kotex  go  together! 


Which  helps  "elevate"  a  low  brow? 

r~l  Symphony  sessions      \Z\  Dating  the  psych  prof 

I  I  A  bang  on  the  head 
Neither  "long-hair"  concerts  nor  brain  bait 
can  lift  the  kind  of  brow  we  mean!  If  your 
forehead's  low,  part  your  hair  hi^gher  on 
your  head,  parallel  to  eyebrows.  Now  make 
a  short  bang  that  conceals  your  real  hair- 
line. Different  girls  have  different  needs  — 
in  grooming  aids,  and  in  sanitary  protection. 
That's  why  Kotex  gives  a  choice  of  3  sizes. 
Try  Regular,  Junior,  Super.  And  try  a  new 
Kotex  belt,  too  ...  it  goes  with  Kotex  for 
perfect  comfort. 


At  first  glance,  would  you  say  she's  a — 

r~l  Gold  digger  Q  Mixed  up  kid 

I    I  Shrinking  violet 

She  may  be  a  living  razor  at  repartee,  but  in 
clothes  savvy  she's  got  her  lines  mixed. 
Example:  that  short  flared  coat  calls  for  a 
stem-slim  skirt,  not  the  full-skirted  style 
she's  wearing.  Bone  up  on  what  fashion 
lines  combine  best.  Just  as  you've  learned 
that  (at  calendar  time)  Kotex  and  those  ^a< 
pressed  ends  are  your  best  insurance  against 
revealing  lines.  And  with  Kotex,  no  "wrong 
side"  mix-up !  You  can  wear  this  napkin  oa 
either  side,  safely. 


More  woznezx  choose  KOTEX  -than  all  other  sanitary  napkins 


Hazy  about  what  happens  and  why  —  at  "that" 
time?  Read  "Very  Personally  Yours"  —  the  fasci- 
nating,/ree  booklet  filled  with  easy-to-understand 
facts,  plus  lively  illustrations.  Hints  on  diet, 
exercise,  grooming  .  .  .  do's  and  don'ts  a  girl 
should  know.  For  your  free  copy,  address  P.  0. 
Box  3434,  Dept.  12115,  Chicago  54,  111. 


T.    H     RES. 
U.  S.   PUT.  Off. 


21 


lL. 


l^kft^m/fi 


22 


M/mm- 

Mtm/VG- 

M}ff  ioofli/wfi? 

If  s  GARDOL- 

To  Give  Up  To 

7  Times  Longer 

Protection  Against 

Tooth  Decay  ■■■With 

Just  One  Brushing! 


Morning  brushings  with  Colgate's  help 
protect  all  day;  evening  brushings  all 
night.  Because  the  Gardol  in  Colgate's 
forms  an  invisible,  protective  shield 
around  teeth  that  lasts  12  hours  with  Just 
one  brushing.  Ask  your  dentist  how  often 
to  brush  your  teeth.  Encourage  your 
children  to  brush  after  meals.  And  at  all 
times,  get  Gardol  protection  in  Colgate's ! 


cov: 


CKli 


ts'^i: 


No  other  leading  toothpaste  can 
give  the  12-hour  protection  against 
decay  you  get  with  Colgate's 
with  just  one  brushing  I 


*TKt    TOP    THRCC    0RAND5 
*rTCR    COLOATC'S. 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM  COAST 


{Continued  jrom  page   21) 


agreement  for  the  creation  of  an  all-color 
variety-cartoon  aeries  (also  to  be  seen  in 
black  and  white)  exclusively  for  TV.  UPA 
— who  produced  the  Academy  Award- 
wiiming  films,  "Gerald  McBoing-Boing" 
and  "When  Magoo  Flew" — hope  to  have  the 
first  programs  ready  early  in  1956. 

Mulling  the  Mail: 
Mrs.  J.  K.,  Newark,  N.  J.:  Cathy  Crosby 

will  appear  on  her  father's  TV  show  this 
fall,  at  least  once  a  month.  Bob  finally 
agreed  to  her  continuing  on  the  program 
with  the  understanding  that  she  must  finish 

school Mr.  K.  B.,  Orlando,  Fla.:    Eddie 

Cantor's  health  hasn't  been  all  it  should 
be,  and  for  that  reason  he  requested  re- 
lease from  his  long-term  TV  film  contract. 
Producing  and  performing  in  one  show  a 
week  was  too  much  for  him.  .  .  .  Miss  S.  T., 
Barberton,  O.:  At  the  moment,  there  are 
no  plans  to  revive  the  Claudia  series  on 
television,  though  I  agree  with  you  it  was 
a  delightful  show.  It  has  been  missed  by 
many  viewers.  .  .  .  Mrs.  C.  H.  S.,  East  Syra- 
cuse, N.  Y.:  December  Bride  is  back  on  the 
CBS  fall  TV  schedule  and  will  be  on  all 
season.  Ethel  And  Albert  was  the  summer 
filler,  but  it  is  such  a  very  popular  program 
that  CBS-TV  should  really  find  another 
time  period  for  it.  .  .  .  Mrs.  F.  A.,  Boston, 
Mass.:  You  and  other  Ted  Mack  fans  will 
be  happy  to  know  that  Ted  and  his  Original 
Amateur  Hour  will  return  to  network  tele- 
vision, over  ABC,  on  Sunday  night,  Octo- 
ber 30.  .  .  .  Miss  E.  L.,  Mason  City,  Iowa: 
Gina  Ginai-di  plays  Princess  Summerfall 
Winterspring  on  Howdy  Doody.  She  is  six- 
teen years  old.  Judy  Tyler,  the  former 
princess,  will  appear  on  Broadway  in  "Pipe 
Dream"  and  will  be  guesting  with  Sid  Cae- 
sar on  his  TV  shows.  .  .  .  Mr.  W.  H.,  Little 
Rock,  Ark.:  Peggy  King  and  her  husband. 
Knobby  Lee,  trumpeter  with  George  Lib- 


rr% 


Superman — George  Reeves,  that  is — 
shares  a  young  fan's  delight  in  an- 
other  childhood    wonder,   Disneyland. 


erace's  orchestra,  have  separated,  but  as 
yet  have  made  no  definite  plans  for  di- 
vorce. Peggy  will  be  returning  to  The 
George  Gobel  Show  this  fall. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  .  .  .? 

Louise  Allbritton,  former  movie  actress 
who  last  appeared  on  the  TV  series.  Con- 
cerning Miss  Marlowe?  When  Miss  Mar- 
lowe and  Miss  Allbritton  parted  company, 


Gino  Prato — who  won  $32,000  on  The  $64,000  Question — hod  another  dreann 
come  true  when  daughter  Lorraine  wed  Eugene  Joannides.  (See  story  on  page  42.) 


TO  COAST 


^^■^^A 


Jo  Stafford  may  soon  take  time  out 
from  TV  for  the  best  of  reasons — 
on  expected  addition  to  the  family. 


Louise  more  or  less  retired  from  regular 
TV  work.  She  took  a  trip  to  Europe  and  is 
now  back  in  New  York  City  with  no  im- 
mediate professional  plans.  In  private  life, 
Louise  is  married  to  Charles  CoUingwood, 
CBS  newscaster. 

Koria  Pandit,  who  achieved  quite  some 
popularity  with  his  filmed  musical  show, 
which  was  shown  locally  about  the 
country?  He  has  done  a  few  guest  shots 
lately,  but  hasn't  appeared  on  any  regular 
program.  However,  I  am  told  his  fans  may 
write  to  him  at  Box  817,  Santa  Cruz,  Cali- 
fornia. 

Bert  'VITieeler,  one-time  star  comedian  of 
the  movies,  and  a  radio  fiinny  man  for 
many  years?  Bert  hasn't  done  too  much 
recently,  but  his  career  may  take  a  turn  in 
the  right  direction  this  year  now  that  he 
has  landed  a  running  part,  as  Smoky  Joe, 
in  the  new  TV  show,  Brave  Eagle,  a  filmed 

I  Indian-adventure    series    beamed    at    the 

I  youngsters. 

Michael  Raffetto,  who  played  Paul  Bar- 
bour on  One  Man's  Family  practically  since 

;  the  beginning  of  the  program  back  in  1932? 

^  Raffetto  has  retired  from  acting,  though  he 
still  writes  some  of  the  scripts  for  this 
veteran  program.  Russell  Thorsen,  who 
played   Paul    on   the   TV    version    of   One 

'  Mail's  Family,  has  assumed  RafEetto's  role 
on  the  radio  program. 


1  If  you  have  a  question  ahoui  one  of 
{  your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or  won- 
\  der  what  has  happened  to  someone  on  radio 
or  televisioii,  drop  me  a  line — Miss  Jill 
Warren,  TV  Radio  Mirror,  205  East  42  St., 
New  York  17,  N.Y.,  and  I'll  try  my  hest  to 
find  out  for  you  and  put  the  information 
in  the  column.  Unfortunately,  we  don't 
have  space  to  answer  all  questions,  so  I 
try  to  cover  those  personalities  about  whom 
I  receive  the  most  inquiries.  Sorry,  no  per- 
sonal answers,  so  please  do  not  enclose 
stamped  envelopes  or  postage,  as  they 
cannot  be  returned. 


ACTS  FASTER/  HELPS 
DEVELOP  STROHG, 


HEALTHY  CHILDREN/ 


MEW^  SCOTT'S  tNIULSION 

/ts  Supet/iomqgenfzecf / 

MOTHERS,  are  your  children  getting  the  most  out  of  the  A  &  D 
Vitamins  they  are  taking?    Make  sure  —  give  them  New  Scott's 
Emulsion  or  Scott's  Emulsion  Capsules. 
Here's  why- 
Vitamins  A  &  D  must  be  emulsified  either  in  your  child's  digestive 
system  or  before  the  vitamins  are  taken. 

Independent  clinical  tests  prove  that  Vitamins  A  &  D— emulsified 
as  in  New  Scott's  Emulsion— are  more  quickly  absorbed  into  the 
bloodstream  than  if  the  emulsification  is  left  completely  to  nature. 

Emulsification  takes  place  normally  in  the  htunan  body.  But  if 
your  child  is  rundown,  resistance  is  low,  the  emulsification  by  his 
digestive  system  may  not  be  complete.  He  may  not  get  the  vitamin 
help  you  intended! 

That's  why  you  can  rely  on  New  Scott's  Emulsion!  It's  specially 
made  for  fast  intake  of  the  needed  Vitamins  A  &  D— regardless  of 
body  condition.  The  vitamin-containing  particles  in  New  Scott's 
Emulsion  are  so  finely  emulsified  that  the  vita- 
mins are  ready  to  be  absorbed  with  a  minimvim 
of  help  from  the  body. 

New  Scott's  Emulsion  tastes  better.  Easier 
to  give!  Easier  to  take!  And  higher  potency 
too— just  one  teaspoonful  at  a  time. 


I?|=P> 


SCOTT'S    EMULSION    CAPSULES 


The  benefits  of  New  Scott's  Emulsion  are 
also  available  in  easy-to-take  capsules. 
Get  New  Scott's  Emulsion  or  New  Scott's 
Emulsion  Capsules  at  any  drug  counter! 


23 


. 


THE  G/)ODJ|WS 
AVELS! 


Women  in  more  than  70 
countries  use  Tampax 

In  such  far-flung  places  as  Suez  and  Ma- 
dagascar, and  right  here  in  the  United 
States,  the  story  about  Tampax  is  the 
same.  One  woman  tells  another! 

In  fact,  internal  sanitary  protection  is 
the  only  kind  of  sanitary  protection  that 
has  any  real  advantages  to  talk  about! 
It's  both  invisible  and  unfelt  when  in 
■place.  It  does  away  with  the  cumber- 
some, uncomfortable  belt-pin-pad  har- 
ness— does  away  with  chafing  and  irrita- 
tion, too.  It  prevents  odor  from 
forming.  It  eliminates  disposal 
problems.  It's  so  protective  in 
such  a  natural,  normal  way 
that  you  keep  right  on  wearing 
it  while  you  take  your  shower 
or  tub.  Even  its  smallness  is  an  advan- 
tage; it's  easy  to  carry  "extras"  with  you. 

Is  it  any  wonder  that  the  use  of  Tam- 
pax has  grown  steadily,  year  after  year, 
as  more  and  more  women  find  out  about 
this  modern  protection?  Don't  delay  try- 
ing it  yourself  a  single  month  longer — 
for  the  only  way  you  can  appreciate  the 
freedom  it  gives  you  is  to  try  it!  Choice 
of  3  absorbencies  at  drug  or  notion  count- 
ers (Regular,  Super,  Junior).  Tampax  In- 
corporated, Palmer,  Mass. 


NEW  PATTERNS  FOR  YOU 


■ 


24 


hitietiteii  by  a  doctor — 
nou.  used  by  millions  of  women 


4786 

SIZES 
14i/2_24y2 


9101 — Girls  love  the  yoke  bodice,  round 
collar,  whirlaway  skirt.     Perfect  for  school. 
Girls'  Sizes  6,  8,  10,  12,  14.  Size  10  takes 
2%  yards  35-inch  fabric;  %  yard  contrast. 

4786 — Fashioned  for  the  half-sizer — cut 
to  fit  the  shorter,  fuller  figure.     Sew- 
easy,  too.    Half  Sizes  141/^-241/^. 
Size  I6V2  takes  314,  yards  39-inch  fabric. 

4878 — This  new-season  casual  is  so  versatile: 
Neat  enough  for  the  office — flattering  enough 
for  a  special  date.     Misses'  Sizes  12-20. 
Size  16  takes  5%  yards  39-inch  fabric. 


\ 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to: 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  Pattern  Department,  P.  O.  Box 
137,  Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11,  N.  Y.  Add 
five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class  mailing. 
Be    sure    to    specify    pattern    number    and    size. 


IK 


Davtime  Diarv 


(Continued  from  page   19) 

thing  occurred  during  his  childhood  which 
is  responsible  for  the  terrible  psychological 
strains  he  had  lately  been  undergoing.  How 
do  David  and  Lorraine  react  to  the  revela- 
tion that  the  BrouTis,  who  brought  them 
up,  were  not  their  real  parents — and  that 
the  secret  in  their  past  is  murder?  Why 
is  David's  boss  so  anxious  to  keep  the  past 
dead?  CBS  Radio. 

^■.«Ijr.4.VT  LADY  Helen  Emerson  knows 
that  another  name  for  courage  is  some- 
times foolhardiness,  but  she  is  convinced 
that  she  must  go  on  trying  to  help  Linda 
Kendall  regain  her  place  in  the  world  de- 
spite the  distastefiil  twist  being  given  to 
her  actions  by  malicious  onlookers.  But 
however  prepared  she  may  be  to  out-face 
her  enemies,  is  Helen  ready  to  let  her  own 
children  sviffer  in  order  to  create  a  happier 
life  for  Linda's  child?   CBS-TV^ 

JHESDY  WARRE\  AXD  TOE  .YEW  S 

■Wendy,  recently  widowed,  feels  emotional- 
ly unready  to  enter  into  another  mar- 
riage, but  when  Dr.  Peter  Dalton  rebounds 
from  her  refusal  into  the  arms  of  Linda 
Cabot,  his  little  daughter's  governess,  she 
is  no  longer  sure  she  did  the  right  thing. 
But  events  are  shaping  around  Peter 
which  wUl  throw  his  personal  life  and 
Wendy's  into  the  background — events 
which  may  even  have  international  reper- 
cussions. CBS  Radio. 

H  nE.V  A  GittL  MARRIES  The  only 
thing  that  quahfies  a  person  for  the  deli- 
cate job  of  arranging  a  marriage  is  a  hap- 
py marriage  of  his  or  her  own.  Joan  and 
Harry  Davis  therefore  have  the  best  pos- 
sible background  for  trying  to  help  two 
young  people  who  cannot  make  up  their 
minds.  But,  even  as  she  plays  Cupid,  Joan 
is  a  little  worried  about  meddling  with 
fate.  Will  the  future  prove  that  her  fears 
are   well   founded?   ABC   Radio. 

THE  WOMAX  IX  MY  UOISE  All  the 

Carter  children  are  grown-up  enough  to 
understand  that  they  were  brought  up  un- 
der a  compromise  code  combining  their 
father's  devotion  to  discipline  with  their 
mother's  understanding  and  hght  hand. 
But  the  next  generation  is  still  too  young 
to  appreciate  this,  and  near-tragedy  re- 
sults when  James  Carter's  instinctive  con- 
viction that  children  must  learn  discipline 
is  appUed  to  the  wrong  child  at  the  viTong 
time.  NBC  Radio. 

YOIXG  DR.  MALOXE  Tracey  believed 
her  many  doubts  were  resolved  before 
she  married  Dr.  Jerry  Malone,  but  Dr. 
Paul  Browne  now  knows  all  too  well  that 
the  past  she  has  struggled  to  forget  is  tak- 
ing its  toll  of  her  physical  and  mental 
health.  Worried  about  Tracey,  uneasy  about 
his  daughter  Jill — ^how  will  Jerry  weather 
the  crisis  he  knows  is  coming  when  Dr. 
Ted  Mason  makes  his  powerful  bid  for 
control  of  the  clinic  Jerry  now  heads? 
CBS  Radio. 

YOVXG  WIDDER  BROWX  When  Dr. 

-  Anthony  Loring  was  tricked  into  mar- 
riage, EUen  Brown  hid  her  broken  heart 
and  vowed  never  to  let  the  towm  realize 
that  their  gossip  about  her  ruined  hopes 
was  very  nearly  true.  Making  a  brave 
effort,  she  managed  to  find  new  interests, 
but  the  knowledge  that  Anthony  still  loves 
her  prevents  her  from  looking  forward  to 
life   without  him.   Will   MilUcent   Loring's 

I  hatred  for  Ellen  bring  things  to  a  cUmax? 

i  NBC  Radio. 


,W.s.Ch.bkyUHleHi9kS<h«l«rl 

t,^„  T  was  15—1  was  fat,  with 
Not  so  long  ago,  when  ^  J^^  |=  ^^3.  Then,  when 
thick  legs  and  an  o-^'^^^^^^f^^l  ^o  practically 
I  decided  to  become  a  model,  1  na 
make  myself  over!  .^^^  slopped 

In  changing  myself  from  ^  S^^^  ^^^^  ^est  at  all 
along  to  a  girl  ^ho^^f'°      about    good    looks, 
times-I    discovered    Plenty    about    g 
grooming  -"^  Personabty^  ^^^^^^^         ^ 

_.  .  Cd'you-utTeto^^  mrSn/too.     You'll  hnd 

.n  the  '"  -how"  in  ^y  newUk,^t  pubhsl^: 


Betty  CarneWs 

TEEN-AGE  POPULARITY  GUIDE 

This  is  not  a  book  for  your  mother  or  your  grandmother.  It  is  written 
especially  for  YOU.  It  shows  how  you  can  be  more  attractive,  have 
more  fun  with  the  crowd  you  pal  around  with,  get  more  dates,  be  at 
your  best  at  proms  and  parties,  and  enjoy  the  life  of  a  teen. 
Here  you  will  find  all  the  secrets  of  smartness  and  good  grooming  that 
Betty  Cornell  learned  when  she  became  a  teen-age  model.  You  will  see 
how  YOU  can  develop  YOUR  beauty  and  charm  and  popularity  by 
following  the  suggestions  Betty  Cornell  gives  you.  For  example: 


YOUR  FIGURE 

\\"hat  10  eat  to  lose  weight;  to  Rain  weight. 

The  truth  about  between-meal   Dibbling. 

Advice    to   Law   Lils   who   can't   get    up   in   time    for 

breakfast. 

Bringing    lunch    to    school — what    to    pack,    what    to 

leave   out. 

Warning  to  girls  who  BUT  lunch,   and  how  to  steer 

clear  of  danger. 

How  to  keep  family  dinners  from  ruining  your  figure. 

How  to  eat  at  a  pari}'. 

YOUR  SKIN 

What  to  do  about  splotchy  skin. 

How   to   get   rid  of  pimples,    blackheads   and   hickies. 

How  to  apply  cleansing  cream. 

NMiat  to  do  if  you  have  oily  skin,  dry  skin,  or  skin 

that  is  part  oib'.  part  dr3'. 

YOUR  HAIR 

How  to  get  sheen  and  gloss  into  your  hair. 

How  to  gel  rid  of  dandruff. 

Brushing  your  hair  the  way  models  do. 

Shampooing  your  hair. 

How  to  set  your  hair. 

How  to  choose  your  most  flattering  hair  style. 

How  to  be  known  as  a  girl  with  beautiful  hair. 

YOUR  MAKEUP 

The   most   important   thing  about   makeup. 

Little  tricks  that  keep  makeup  from   looking  obvious. 

How  to  apply  powder  base  and  powder. 

What   to  do  about  rouge. 

Proper  way  to  apply  lipstick. 

Don't  be  silly  about  eye  makeup. 

How  to  have  pretty  hands. 

How  to  apply  nail  polish. 

MODELING  TRICKS 

What  makes  a  model  look  so  straight  and  tall. 
How  to  stand  "in  one  line." 


How  to  walk  gracefulb'.  with  fluid  movement. 

How  to   look   lovely   while   dancing. 

The  secret  of  standing  with  one  foot  at  a  right  angle 

to  the  other. 

\\'hai   to  do  with  your  hands  when  you  stand  or  sit. 

How   to  photograph  well. 


YOUR  GROOMING 

Tour  best   insurance  against  being  pushed  out  of  the 

social  swim. 

Tips  on  bathing  and  use  of  deodorants. 

"How  nice  you  smell." 

To  shave  legs  and  underarms,  or  not  to  shave. 

Do  teens  need  a  girdle? 

Should  a  teen  wear  a  bra? 

Suggestions  on  stockings,   underwear,   accessories. 


YOUR  CLOTHES 

How  the  eye  can  be  fooled. 

AMien   to  choose  clothes  with  wrap-around  lines,   slim 

lines,    pleated    lines,    gored    lines,    diagonal    lines,    or 

radiating   lines. 

What  colors  are  becoming  if  you  are  brunette,  blonde, 

redhead,    or    in-between. 

How  clothes  should  be  related  with  skin  color. 

Picking  clothes  to  suit  your  personality. 

Clothes   that  mix  and  match. 

How  not  to  be  "out-dated." 


PARTIES,   DATES  AND  FORMALS 

What  to  do  and  say  to  put  .vour  date  at  ease. 

Blind  dates — should  you  accept  or  refuse  them? 

Petting — yes  or  no? 

Going  formal;  how  to  be  poised,  polished  and  prett.v. 

Week-ends   away  from   home. 

How  to  be  "the  hostess  with  the  mostest"  when  .vou're 

giving  a  party. 

The  Table — at  it  and  on  it. 


YOUR  PERSONALITY 

How  to  keep  from  folding  up  when  the  social  whirl  slows  to  a  standstill. 

How  to  make  yourself  more  attractive  to  others. 

How  to  develop  your  own  personality  and  "make  like  an  individual." 

Don't  get  a  "crowd  complex." 

How  to  put  your  best  self  forward  and  have  fun. 


FREE 

5-OAY  TRIAL 


^ee  !'.r  \ourseIf  how  much  vnu  can 
benefit  from  the  honest  advice  and 
smart  tips  in  Bettv  ComeH's  TEEN- 
AGE POPTJXARITY  GUIDE.  Read  this 
wonder-working  book  for  5  days — 
then  either  return  it  and  pav  noth- 
ing, or  keep  it  and  send  only  S  1.9.5 
plus  few  cents  postage  and  SI. GO  a 
month  until  the  low  price  of  only 
S3. 95  is  paid.  Mail  coupon  NOW  to 
get  your  free-trial  copy. 


FREE   EXAMINATION   COUPON 

PRENTICE-HALL.   INC.,   DEPT.   5895-P1 
ENGLEWOOD   CLIFFS.    NEW  JERSEY 

Please  send  me  Bett>-  Cornell's  TEEN- .AGE  POPULARITY  GUIDE. 
After  giving  it  a  sincere  trial  for  five  days,  if  I  am  not  satisfied  I  may 
return  the  book  to  you  and  pay  nothing.  Otherwise  I  will  send  only 
SI. 93  plus  a  few  pennies  for  postage  and  packing,  and  Sl-OO  a 
month  until  the  low  price  of  only  S3. 95  is  paid. 


Name 

Address.. 

City 


..State.. 


, Zone.. 

SAVE!    Send    S3. 95    WITH    THIS    COUPON,    and    we    will  pay  shipping 

charges.     Same    return    privilege your    money    back    if    you    are    not 

thrilled    ^ntl    delighted    with    this    book. 


25 


Bobby,  who  also  plays  fhe  trumpet,  lends 
an  ear  to  Fran  Carroll  and  Buddy  Weed. 


Dancers  Zadan  and  Carroll  do  a  bit  of 
fancy  stepping,  with   Bobby  at  piano. 


26 


Contestants   Richard   Cernizlia   and   Pat 
Horace  stop  dancing  to  chat  with  Bobby. 


Piano   is   one   of   a    band-full    of   instruments   at   which 
Bobby  is  expert — but  it's  his  "Pom"  who  calls  the  tune. 


Step  This  Way 

Bobby  Sherwood  trots  out  a 

gala  new  dance  show  and  walks  off  with 

cheers  from  WABC  viewers 


NEW  YORKERS  get  their  toes  stepped  on  too  often  in  the    " 
subways  to  care  to  repeat  the  experience  on  the  dance 
floor.    In  his  usual  amiable  fashion,  Bobby  Sherwood  has 
come  up  with  a  solution  for  down-trodden  Gothamites. 
Bobby,  who  describes  himself  as  "about  40  per  cent  musician, 
40  per  cent  comedian-actor,  and  20  per  cent  writer,"  has 
added  a  plus  percentage  as  dance  impresario  and  host  with 
a  new  show,  Step  This  Way,  seen  Saturday  at  7  P.M.  on 
Station  WABC -TV.  .  .  .  The  show  spotlights  three  couples 
who  strut  their  stuff  and  learn  new  dance  steos  for  prizes  in 
the  studio.  The  art  of  terpsichore  is  propounded  by  the  team 
of  Zadan  and  Carroll.  Jerry  Zadan,  who  directs  the  Arthur 
Murray  studios  in  Poughkeepsie,  is  married  to  a  dancer, 
Dorothy,  who  swapped  career  for  the  fast-stepping  role  of 
wife  and  mother  of  their  two-year-old  daughter.    His  TV 
partner  is  his  sister-in-law,  Fran  Carroll,  who  owns  and 
operates  the  Saxony  Dance  Studio.  .  .  .  Music  for  the 
toe-tapping  is  provided  by  bandleader  Buddy  Weed.   Bobby 
Sherwood,  who  can  play  every  instrument  in  the  band, 
insists  that  he  is  now  "unstuck."    Long  one  of  the  top  names 
in  the  band  business,  Bobby  claims  he  was  never  really 
a  bandleader.    "I  put  together  a  band  for  Johnny  Mercer 
when  he  started  Capitol  Records,"  Bobby  recalls,  "and  we 
cut  something  called  'Elks  Parade.'     It  sold  over  a  million 
copies  and  there  I  was,  stuck  with  a  band."  .  .  .  The  band 
played  on  and  on,  very  successfully,  until  Bobby  won  his 
own  disc- jockey  show  on  WABC — and  claimed  he  was  not 
really  a  disc  jockey.  He's  also  made  frequent  appearances 
on  the  Milton  Berle,  Red  Buttons  and  Sid  Caesar  shows. 
Currently,  Bobby  is  a  panelist — he  hasn't  said  yet  whether  he 
thinks  he  really  is  one  or  not — on  ABC -TV's  Masquerade 
Party.  ...  At  any  rate,  there's  no  doubt  that  Bobby  is  the 
very  devoted  husband  of  the  former  Helen  Banberry.     The 
Sherwoods  have  two  parrakeets  and  a  four-year-old 
miniature  Pomeranian  at  their  Sutton  Place  menagerie  and 
keep  two  horses  in  a  country  stable.    Occasionally,  Bobby 
will  canter  along  the  paths  in  Central  Park,  which  is  likely 
to  be  renamed  "Sherwood  Forest."  All  those  in  favor 
are  cordially  invited  to  Step  This  Way. 


t 


a  moment 


every  other  lipstick 


will 


r 


MTmcIl 


THE      REVOLUTIONARY 


I  I  P  S  T  I  C  K      BY 


fjm 


^m^ 


.  .  .  glides  on  at  a  touch  •  •  .  yet  stays  on 
twice   OS  long  as  "long-lasting"   lipsticks 


/P)  THE  GILLETTE  ro. 


Twice  as  long?    Yes!    Just  put  on  Soft  Touch 

and  forget  about  it.    No  need  to  retouch —  witfi 

Soft  Touch.    No  messy  smear .  .  .  and  so  comfortable! 


Three  new  shades  for 
the  new  season  in 
Red  —  Rose  —  Coral 


25 

plus 
tax 


I  dreamed  J  was  a  social  buUerfl?^ 


m  M^ 


wif/rnxMiA 


%rm  bn 


® 


Tk* 


\ 


■v-r^? 


•^i 


.  <*»  I  ifci'^'JMl  I 


»•- 1  -.y.fa^At^.-';?9fc. 


Pre-lifde- newest  matdenfijrm  bra  ....he  bra  with  the  contour  band  that  gives 

p/ ® 

yon  a  cornplc'toly  ni'.^  kind  of 'nrulpr-and-np'  uplift.  It  curves  so  naturally  to  you  .  .  .  Hfts  from  under 

the  cups,  curves  snugly  up  between  the  cups  to  make  the  most  of  every  curve  you  own  ! 

///  ilrlliaif  II  y  Ion  hire  anil  salin  (as  shown)  3.00.  In  col  Ion  broadcloth,  1.50  to  2.50.  Strapless  versions,  2.50  to  3.50.  A,  B  and  C  cup  sizes. 

O  MAmrN  rofiM  miAflsirnr  co.,  inc.       cosiuMei  srAAsi       BAOKQnouNoi  velvet  institute  op  amfbio 


NOELirfll   NESLE  *»Ea.    U,   S.    PAT.  OFF. 


For  Art  and 
Lois  Linkletter,  every 
anniversary  has  been 
Thanksgiving  Day  indeed 

By  MAXINE  ARNOLD 


ONCE  UPON  a  Thanksgiving, 
a  lovely  young  bride  in 
cream-colored  velvet  .  .  . 
with  pearls  in  her  dark  hair 
and  stars  in  her  wide  blue  eyes 
.  .  .  stood  before  an  altar, 
silently  saying  a  wedding  vow. 
She  would,  she  promised, 
make  him  the  home  he  had  never 
known  .  .  .  give  him  the  family 
he'd  never  had.  From  this  day 
forward,  she  would  make  it 
all  up  to  him.  .  .  . 

Beside  the  girl  whose  love 
and  faith  had  already  given 
life  purpose.  Art  Linkletter  was 
promising — as  silently — a  few 
other  vows  which  weren't  "in  the 
script."  She  would  never  be 
sorry  she  was  marrying  him. 
Nothing  in  this  life  would  be 
too  good  for  her.  She'd  have 
everything  .  .  .  see  everything  .  .  . 
go  everywhere.  She'd  have 
jewels  and  mink  and  trips  to 
faraway  places.  Some  day,  he 
would  show  her  the  whole 
world  .  .  .  though  any  one  of  these 
vows  was  tall  dreaming  on  the 
$150  a  month  Art  was 
making  right  then.  .  .  . 

Today,  those  furs  and  jewels 
and  magic  faraway  places  are 
no  longer  a  dream.  The  finest  of 
minks  hang  in  the  closet  of  an 
elegant  Holmby  Hills  house 
which  "neighbors"  those  belong- 
ing to  Bing  Crosby,  Lana 


Continued 


> 


Days  of  Remembrance 


29 


Days  of  Remembrance 


(Continued) 


Art  has  more  than  fulfilled  the  vow  that  "someday"  he 
would  shower  his  bride  with  furs  and  finery,  and  take  her 
"all  over  the  world."  Latest  jaunt  was  a  trip  to  hiawaii! 


Son  Jack  was  the  "first  installment"  on  Lois's  wedding 
vows,  hie's  starred  on  his  own  local  show,  is  a  familiar 
figure  at  CBS,  where  Art  stages  his  House  Party.  Father 
and  eldest  child  share  many  projects,  both  work  and  play. 


Turner  and  Humphrey  Bogart.  And  there  are  five 
"little  Links"  who  take  turns  traveling  to  those 
dreamy  faraway  places  with  Lois  and  Art.  .  .  .  On  this, 
his  twentieth  wedding  anniversary,  Art  Linkletter 
is  enveloped  by  mqre  affection  and  more  family 
than  he  ever  thought  would  be  his.  And  they're 
more  than  making  it  all  up  to  him.  .  .  . 

"This  was  what  I  wanted  most  when  we  married," 
Lois  says  slowly  now,  reliving  aloud  another 
Thanksgiving  Day.  "I  wanted  to  make  a  home  for 
him  and  to  give  him  children.  He  never  had  anybody 
of  his  own — really  his  own — until  he  married  me.  He 
had  a  family,  but  they  were  not  really  his.  And  he 
had  a  home,  but  not  a  real  home.    I'd  always  had 
such  a  wonderful  home,  and  my  family  were  all 
so   close,   I   just   couldn't  imagine   this — 
somebody  who  had  nobody.  .  .  ." 

It's  fitting  that  Thanksgiving  Day  is  their  wedding 
anniversary.  For,  until  they  met,  Thanksgiving 
was  a  very  meaningless  word  to  Art  Linkletter. 

"Orphaned"  by  life,  he'd  been  given  for  adoption  to 
a  sidewalk  evangelist  when  he  was  one  year  old. 
And   theirs   was    a    floating    existence.    From   time 
to  time,  his  foster  father,  fired  with  the  zeal 
of  saving  men's  souls,  would  go  out  on  the  road 
to  preach — ^leaving  Art  and  his  foster  mother  to  go  from 
house  to  house  of  the  various  church  members 
who  would  take  them  in.  They'd  wait  at  somebody's 
house  until  they  heard  from  him  again. 

When  Art  was  eight  years  old,  they  lived  at 
the  Old  Folks'  Home  in  San  Diego  "because  we  had  no 
place  else  to  stay."    There  the  little  boy  with  the 
bright  blue  eyes  and  eager  smile  was  always  being 
cautioned  to  "be  quiet  now."  He  had  no  one  to  play 
with,  and  he  couldn't   (Continued  on  page    97) 

Art  Linkletter's  House  Party,  M-F— on  CBS-TV  at  2:30  P.M., 
CBS  Radio  at  3 — is  sponsored  by  Pillsbury  Mills,  Lever  Bros., 
Kellogg  Co.,  Dole  Pineapple.  His  People  Are  Funny  is  seen  over 
NBC-TV,  Sun.,  7  P.M.,  for  Prom  Home  Permanent  and  Paper-Mate 
Pens.  It  is  heard  on  NBC  Radio, Tues.,  8  P.M.  (All  times  EDT) 


30 


Five  "little  Links" — Jack,  Dawn,  Robert  (rear),  Diane  and  Sharon 
(foreground) — are  proof  that  Art  has  the  happy  honne  he  longed  for. 
They're  part  of  the  living  dream  which   began  one  Thanksgiving   Day. 


31 


Jcm^  ^m 


^ec^ 


When  Patti  first  met  dance  director 
Charles  O'Curran,  they  "fought  like  cats 
and  dogs."     But  all  that  was  last  year. 


Top  mennber  of  Patti's  show- business 
"family"  is  partner-manager  Jock  Rael, 
whose  orchestra  plays  for  her  programs. 


It's  a  new  and  glamorous  Patti  Page  on  TV — 

for  the  oldest,  most  wonderful  of  reasons 

By  ED  MEYERSON 


What's  happened  to  you?    It  wasn't  a  question,  it  was  a 
gasp  of  surprise — ^for  Patti  Page  had  changed.   She  had 
done  herself  over.  She  was  as  different  as  day  from  night. 
Seeing  her  now  and  contrasting  her  with  the  Patti  of  a  year  ago, 
it  was  like  looking  at  one  of  those  Before-and-After  ads  that 
show  the  girl  as  she  used  to  be,  and  then  as  she  is  today — 
a]ter  she  discovered  the  new  miracle  product. 

"Before  .  .  .  well,  Patti  was  considered  the  girl-next-door  type. 
She  was  pretty,  but  in  a  casual,  wholesome  sort  of  way — like 
banana  cream  pie,  her  favorite  dessert.    Absorbed  in  her 
work,  she  seemed  shy  and  withdrawn  in  the  world  outside  the 
night  clubs  and  studios — a  Sleeping  Beauty  who  only  came 
to  life  when  a  spotlight  opened  her  eyes  and  the  bandleader 
signaled  it  was  time  to  sing. 

But  now,  after  .  .  .  she  was  the  Golden  Girl!  Glamorous, 
exciting,  downright  unpredictable.    One  moment,  the  poise  and 
authority  of  a  woman  of  the  world  {Continued  on  page  86) 

The  Patti  Page  Show  is  sponsored  by  the  Oldsmobile  Dealers  of  America 
in  more  than  a  hundred  TV  areas.  See  local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


What  an  enchantirig  bride  the  "new"  Patti  makes — even  when  it's 
just-pretend,  on  the  set  with  members  of  The  Page  Five  Singers. 


32 


f-b,  ».. 


'm^- 


6i%6/iaknt- 


The  simple,  personal  story  of 
"a  tool  of  God"  who  has  sparked  a 
great  public  revival  of  faith 

By  GREGORY  MERWIN 


HE  IS  like  the  lightning  that  sears  the  sky 
and  the  thunder  that  throbs  the  earth.  He  is 
world -renowned  as  the  greatest  evangelist 
in  contemporary  Christendom.    Billy  Graham 
is  a  shaker  and  a  m6ver. 

He  is  fabulous.    His  weekly  radio  sermons  are 
heard  over  the  Mutual  Broadcasting  System, 
the  ABC  Radio  network,  the  British  Broadcasting 
Corporation,  seventy-one  Canadian  stations, 
and  many  other  independent  stations  in  Asia,  Europe 
and  South  America.   Each  week,  more  than 
a  thousand  different  stations  broadcast  his  sermons. 

His  magnetism  is  fantastic.    For  example,  this 
year  in  London's  Wembley  Stadium,  450,000 
persons  attended  his  (Continued  on  page    90) 

Billy  Graham's  Hour  of  Decision  is  heard  Sundays  on  two  net- 
works: ABC  Radio  at  3:30  P.M.  EDT,  and  Mutual,  10  P.M.  EDT. 


His  sermons  have  been  heard  by  America's 
President  Eisenhower  (above) — and  crowds 
of  100,000  in  Berlin's  Olympic  Stadium  (left). 


MAN   OF   DECISION 


The   girls   and    Mrs.   Graham   greet 
Billy    on    .his    return    from    Europe. 


One    of    his    favorite    family    pic- 
tures   reveals    a    favorite    pastime 


Wife    Ruth    is    his    true    helpmate, 
joins  him  "on  tour"  when  she  can. 


The  noted  evangelist  believes  in  fun  and  games,  too.  Left  to  right — son   Franklin, 
now  3;  Mrs.  Graham;  daughter  Ruth,  5;  Billy;  daughters  Virginia,  10,  and  Anne,  7. 


35 


With  home,  children  and  abundant 
love.  Eve  Arden  and  Brooks  West 
have  found  the  way  to  make  life 


MORE   THAN 


Eve  and  Brooks  agree  that  their  beloved  farm  is  just  the  place  for  an  active  lad  like  Douglas! 


36 


A  DREAM 


By  BETTY  MILLS 

ONE  AFTERNOON  last  September,  Eve  Arden  and  her 
husband,  Brooks  West,  walked  arm  in  arm 
off  the  Warner  Bros.  Studio  set  where  Eve  had 
just  finished  making  the  feature-length  movie  version 
of  her  CBS  show,  Our  Miss  Brooks.    Once  in 
their  car.  Eve  and  Brooks  started  their  afternoon  drive 
through  San  Fernando  Valley  to  their  own  Hidden 
Valley  ranch  home.    Twenty  minutes  later,  they  drove 
past  their  white-fenced  pasture,  through  the  gate, 
and  under  the  red-painted,  white-lettered  sign  which 
read:    "Westhaven."    Brooks  had  hewn  the  sign 
from  fresh  liomber,  Eve  had  painted  it.   Whenever  she 
saw  this  red-and-white  greeting,  Eve  was 
reminded   anew   that   she   was   truly   "at   home." 

Westhaven  spread  out  in  front  of  Eve  in  three 
directions — thirty-eight    acres    of    green    grass,    white 
fences  and  rolling  hills,  all  freckled  with  oaks, 
blushing  red  barns  and  three  happy  white  cottages. 
The  next  thing  Eve  saw — or  rather  heard — was 
her   ten-year-old   daughter   Liza's   shout   of   welcome: 
"Hi!"    Astride  her  pinto  pony,  "Patches,"  Ldza 
came  rushing  out  of  the  oaks,  arms  waving,  pigtails 
flying.    "I'll  race  you  to  the  bam!"  she  screamed,  and 
was  off  in  a  clatter  of  hooves. 

Seconds  later,  the  fat  yellow  country -school  bus 
came  puffing  around  the  corner,  stopping  by  their  gate. 
Eve's  and  Brooks'  (Continued  on  page    69) 

Our  Miss  Brooks  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Fri.,  8:30  P.M.,  as  sponsored 
by  Instant  Sanka,  Minute  Rice,  Gaines  Dog  Food  and  Birdseye.  Our 
Miss  Brooks  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Sun.,  8  P.M.  (Both  times  EDT) 


Horses  to  ride  are  among  the  many  treasures  of 
farm  life.  Young  Doug  (below)  has  his  own  ideas 
of  sport,   indoors  or  out,   and   Eve   plays  along. 


Sheep  delight  both  Mother  Eve  and  her  children. 
That's  Dune  feeding  Little  Orphan  Annie,  as  Liza 
watches — and  Doug  looks  around  for  new  mischief. 


w 


> 


\ 


Two  who  know  the  real  Como — producer  Lee  Cooley 
(above)    and    Perry's    pretty    wife,    Roselle    (below). 


The  SMILE 

Behind 
the  Song 

Perry  Como  has  a  gift  for  comedy 

which  spills  right  out  of  his  heart 

and  home  into  his  NBC  show 


38 


Bv  LILLA  ANDERSON 


MAKING  an  elaborate  show  of  being  a  man 
bruised  in  flesh  and  broken  ui  spirit, 
Perry  Como  limped  across  the  television 
stage  to  confront  his  producer,  Lee  Cooley. 
"You  and  your  shotguns  .  .  ."  he  said  accusingly. 

Lee,  who  is  a  rangy,  crew-cut,  athletic 
Westerner,  long  ago  became  one  of  Como's 
most  understanding  admirers.  He  thinks 
Como  is  the  greatest  star  he's  ever  worked 
with,  and  he  just  grinned  at  this  onslaught. 
He  has  learned  that,  when  Perry  starts  a 
conversation  in  this  manner,  he's  about  to 
hear  the  pay-off  line  of  some  incident 
which  started  naturally  enough  in  the 
studio.  However,  such  things  have  a  way 
of  gathering  force  like  a  hurricane  and 
turning  into  an  adventure  for  Perry.  An 
adventure  in  which  Perry  always  comes  off 
second-best.  At  least  in  the  way  Perry  tells  it. 

This  one,  Lee  correctly  surmised,  had  its 
origin  in  their  Christmas  show,  some  time  earlier. 
In  it,  the  three  young  Comos,  together  with 
the  children  of  the  other  people  attached  to  the 
program,  had  pantomimed  the  Christmas  story. 

They  had  done  it  before,  but  this  time 
there  had  been  a  change,  for  Perry  had  come 
to  Lee  with  a  problem.  He  had  a  sore  throat, 
he  asserted.  Lee  lifted  a  skeptical  eyebrow 
right  there.  He  had  seen  Perry  work 
uncomplainingly  through  (Continued  on  page  88) 

The  Perry  Como  Show,  on  NBC-TV,  Sat.,  from  8  to  9  P.M. 
EDT,  is  sponsored  by  International  Cellucotton  Co.,  Gold 
Seal  Co.,  Dormeyer  Corp.,  Noxzema  Chemical  Co.,  others. 


One    reason    for   a    big    smile    these    days    Is    that    he 
has   finally   put  down    roots,    has   a    home   of   his   own. 


The  Comos  give  thanks  at  Our  Lady  of  Fatima  Church  in 
Sands  Point,  pause  to  greet  Reverend  Vincent  Watson,  S.J. 

Three  more  reasons  for  the  Comos'   delight  are  their  chil- 
dren— Ronnie  on  couch,  Jerri  in  chair,  and  David  on  floor. 


M^ 


Work  is  play  for  Spring — and  very  much   like  real 
life.    As  Lily  Ruskin  in  December  Bride,  she 
has  a  daughter  Ruth  (played  by  Frances  Rafferty)  and  an 
admiring   son-in-law,   Matt  hienshaw  (Dean   Miller). 


for  Spring  Byington— forever 

young  December  Bride— both  past  and 

future  make  today  just  perfect 

By   ELSA  MOLINA 


Spring's  own  family  includes  daughter  Phyllis,  son- 
in-law  Bill  Boxley,  their  children  Christine  and 
"S'An" — all  on  opposite  page — daughter  Lois  and 
son-in-law  Lorry  Dunn  (above,  right).    She  finds  quite  a 
resemblance  between   granddaughter  S'An  and  a 
portrait  of  daughter  Phyllis  at  about  the  some  age! 


THE  nation's   "most  beloved  mother-in-law" 
sat  in  the  far  corner  of  the  car  as  it  climbed 
up,  up,  up  the  Colorado  mountains.   Any 
TV  viewer  would  have  recognized  Spring 
Byington — Lily  Ruskin,  that  is,  in  the  Desilu 
Production    of   December    Bride    on    CBS-TV — 
with  the  champagne-colored  hair  blowing 
silkily  about  her  fair,  unlined  face.   But, 
just  now,  two  little  "thought"  lines  cast  a  shadow 
on  Spring's  usually  bright  blue  eyes,  robbing 
them  of  their  sparkle.    The  "thought" 
lines  were  prompted  by  the  depth  of  the  abyss 
that  fell  off  sharply  to  her  right.  It  was  so  deep 
that  she  could  barely  see  {Continued  on  page   93) 

December  Bride,  CBS-TV,  Mon.,  9:30  P.M.  EDT,  is  spon- 
sored by  General  Foods  for  Instant  Maxwell  House  CofiFee. 


41 


Patrons  of  Sino's  little  shop  knew  his  skill 
at  repairing  shoes — and  always  got  a  smile 
as  worm  and  friendly  as  the  one  he  wore 
the  night  his  knowledge  of  opera  won  him 
the    show's   fabulous    check    for    $32,000. 


Three  times,  Sino  stepped  out  of  the  booth  a  winner — os  Lynn  Dollar 


Wife  Caroline  and  daughter  Lorraine  were  too  happy 
to  wonder  what  The  $64,000  Question  might  ha  ve  been . 


Gino  knew  his  appearance  on  the  program   might  fulfill 
some  dreams — but  never  imagined  he'd  be  a  "celebrity." 


42 


:-"d  Hal  March  hoped  he'd  make  it  four! 


His  winnings  on  The  $64,000  Question  ore  Gino  Prato's 
proud  reward  for  the  humble  devotion  of  a  lifetime 

By   HELEN   BOLSTAD 


THE  FULL  MOON  was  high  over  the  movintains, 
scents  of  summer  were  in  the  air — and  both  the 
world  and  Gino  Prato  were  yoiinger — that  night 
back  in  Italy,  when  the  village  priest  found  him  hap-;- 
pily  playing  the  accordion  while  the  boys  and  girls  of 
Statale  danced.  The  priest,  who  had  heard  many  a 
confession  of  thoughtless  romance,  worried  about 
music  and  moon  madness.  It  was  not  fitting  that  his 
altar  boy  be  part  of  this.  Sternly  he  warned,  "Gino,  if 
you  play  and  these  yoxong  people  sin,  then  the  sins  of 
them  all  are  on  your  head." 
To  the  lad,  devoted  as  he  was  to  both  church  and 


music,  the  warning  brought  conflict.  "But,  Father," 
he  protested,  "the  music  is  not  sin.  The  music  is 
beautiful."  Wisely,  the  old  priest  understood.  "You 
can  serve  God  while  you  play  music.  I  will  teach  you 
to  play  the  organ." 

The  way  from  that  moon-drenched  night  to  what 
probably  is  today's  most  conspicuously  lonely  spot — 
the  contestant's  isolation  booth  at  The  $64,000  Ques- 
tion— ^held  many  a  trial.  But  Gino  Prato,  now  an  Amer- 
ican citizen,  stood  the  test.  His  faith  in  God's  goodness, 
his  devotion  to  his  family  and  his  love  of  music  earned 
him  both  fortvme  and  the   (Continued  on  page   78) 


The  $64,000  Question,  on  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Tues.,   10  P.M.,  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Revlon  Products  Corp. 


43 


Patrons  of  Gino's  little  shop  knew  his  skill 
at  repairing  shoes — and  always  got  a  smile 
OS  warm  and  friendly  as  the  one  he  wore 
the  night  his  knowledge  of  opera  won  him 
the    show's   fabulous   check   for   $32,000. 


Three  times,  Gino  stepped  out  of  the  booth  a  winner — as  Lynn  Dollar 


nd  Hal  March  hoped  he'd  make  it  four! 


Wife  Caroline  and  daughter  Lorraine  were  too  happy 
to  wonderwhot  Tke§64.000  Question  might  hove  been. 


Gino  knew  his  oppearonce  on   the   program    might  fulfill 
some  dreams — but  never  imagined  he'd  be  a  "celebrity." 


His  winnings  on  The  $64,000  Question  are  Gino  Prato's 
proud  reward  for  the  humble  devotion  of  a  lifetime 

By   HELEN   BOLSTAD 


THE  FULL  MOON  was  high  over  the  mountains, 
scents  of  summer  were  in  the  air — and  both  the 
world  and  Gino  Prato  were  younger — that  night 
back  in  Italy,  when  the  village  priest  foimd  him  hap7 
pily  playing  the  accordion  while  the  boys  and  girls  of 
Statale  danced.  The  priest,  who  had  heard  many  a 
confession  of  thoughtless  romance,  worried  about 
music  and  moon  madness.  It  was  not  fitting  that  his 
altar  boy  be  part  of  this.  Sternly  he  warned,  "Gino,  if 
you  play  and  these  young  people  sin,  then  the  sins  of 
them  all  are  on  your  head." 
To  the  lad,  devoted  as  he  was  to  both  church  and 


music,  the  warning  brought  conflict.  "But,  Father," 
he  protested,  "the  music  is  not  sin.  The  music  is 
beautiful."  'Wisely,  the  old  priest  understood.  "You 
can  serve  God  while  you  play  music.  I  will  teach  you 
to  play  the  organ." 

The  way  from  that  moon-drenched  night  to  what 
probably  is  today's  most  conspicuously  lonely  spot — 
the  contestant's  isolation  booth  at  The  $64,000  Ques- 
tion— held  many  a  trial.  But  Gino  Prato,  now  an  Amer- 
ican citizen,  stood  the  test.  His  faith  in  God's  goodness, 
his  devotion  to  his  family  and  his  love  of  music  earned 
him  both  fortune  and  \he  (Continued  on  page  78) 


The  m.000  Question,  on  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Tues.,  10  P.M.,  EDT,  i,  sponsored  by  Revlon  Produce  Corp. 


HOME  at  First  Sight 


The  Jack  Sterlings  knew  it  was 
just  the  house  for  them,  without 
having  to  ^^make  up  their  minds'' 

By  FRANCES  KISH 


WHEN    Margaret    Elizabeth    Sterling    was 
born  last  March  15,  a  friend  sent  a  young 
tree  to  be  planted  in  the  yard  of  the  new 
house  in  Connecticut.  Bethie's  parents,  Jack  and 
Barbara  Sterling,  were  delighted.  Not  only  did 
they  like  the  idea  of  the  little  tree  growing  tall 
and  straight  and  strong,  along  with  their  new 
little  girl,  but  somehow  it  seemed  symbolic  of  the 
deep  roots  they  themselves  were  now  putting 
down,  in  a  home  of  their  own. 

Now,  Barbara  cannot  understand  how  she  ever 
managed  in  a  crowded  New  York  City  apart- 
ment. Small  Patricia  Ann,  who  is  Bethie's  older 
sister   (but  barely  a  year  older),  has  forgotten 
she  ever  had  to  be  content  to  play  in  a  tiny  city  ■ 
park.   Even  Jack,  the  commuting  member  of  the 
Sterling  household,  has  taken  quite  calmly  to  his 
new  schedule.  He  gets  up  even  earlier  now,  to 
begin  his  broadcasting  day  on  radio,  on  the  Jack 
Sterling  Show,  over  WCBS,  at  5:30  A.M.  He  has 
time  for  a  brief  rest  before  his  other  pre -noon 
radio   stint,   the   popular   network   panel   show 
called  Make  Up  Your  Mind.  Saturday  mornings, 
Jack  must  be  in  Philadelphia  very  early  to  get 
ready   for  his   Big   Top   television   program,   the 
huge  circus  show  for  which  he  has  played  ring- 
master ever  since  it  began  five  years  ago.  Yet  all 
this    long-distance    commuting    and    pre-dawn 
catching  of  trains  seems  well  worth  it  to  a  chap 
who  has  been  longing  for  a  house  in  the  country 
for  many  years,  and  planning  for  it  ever  since 
he  and  Barbara  got  married  in  June,  1952. 

"I  still  cannot  believe  it  has  happened  to  me," 
Jack  says.  "Me,  who — although  not  quite  'born 
in  a  trunk,'  as  the  saying  goes — did  first  see  the 
light  of  day  in  a  theatrical  boarding-house,  and 
who  spent  my  growing  years  backstage,  as  the  son 
of  vaudeville  performers  and  a  performer  my- 
self. Me,  who  knew  very  few  settled  homes  and 
never   before   owned   one.   Barbara   and   I   are 
thrilled  about  it." 

The  way  the  Sterlings  found  just  the  right  house 
for    them    was    part    of    the    thrill.    Practically 


Jack  and  Barbara  Sterling  dreamed  of  a  place  in  the  country 
from  the  moment  Patricia  Ann  was  born.  Now — just  in  time  for 
baby   Margaret   Elizabeth — that   dream    house   is   a   reality. 


Se«  IVext  Page 


► 


45 


^A 


HOME  at  First  Sight 


(Continued) 


everybody  had  been  getting  into  the  act  to  help  them 
look  for  the  perfect  place.  Friends  sent  them  "hot  tips" 
about  property  they  had  seen  in  their  communities. 
Barbara's  dad  served  as  "advance  man"  and  put  in 
three  days  at  a  hotel  in  the  area  where  they  were  look- 
ing, scouting  every  possible  location. 

Then  it  happened,  on  a  day  when  Barbara  and  Jack 
themselves  were  combing  the  countryside  with  a  real 
estate  agent.  They  had  seen  houses  of  all  sizes  and 
shapes,  in  convenient  and  inconvenient  locations,  but 
none  quite  suited.  Then  suddenly  they  were  walking 
right  up  to  one  which  was  just  what  they  wanted.  It 
was  close  to  the  convenient  transportation  which  is  so 
necessary  for  Jack's  work,  in  a  beautiful  new  section 
of  the  town  of  New  Canaan,  on  an  acre  and  a  third  of 
grovmd — with  an  opportunity  to  option  the  adjoining 
land  if  they  decide  they  want  to  spread  out. 

A  four-bedroom  house  of  white  and  gray  brick  and 
wood,  set  high  on  a  ridge  from  which  there  is  a  sweep- 
ing view  of  some  of  the  prettiest  country  in  the  eastern 
United  States.  An  unfinished  house  at  the  time  they 
first  saw  it,  happily  still  at  the  stage  where  their  own 


individual  ideas  could  be  incorporated,  and  yet  well 
enough  along  so  there  wasn't  too  much  of  a  wait  before 
they  could  move  in.  Barbara  could  have  a  free  hand 
with  color  schemes,  and  the  design  of  shelf  and  .closet 
space.  Jack  could  plan  the  spot  for  the  swimming  pool 
and  the  barbecue  for  cook-outs  in  summer,  and  the 
patio.  As  everyone  knows  who  listens  to  a  Jack  Sterling 
broadcast — and  as  every  visitor  to  the  Sterling  house- 
hold surely  knows — ^this  is  a  man  with  considerable  skill 
with  a  skillet,  indoors  or  outdoors,  and  a  real  yen  to 
try  out  some  of  the  tantalizing  recipes  for  out-of-door 
cookery  which  had  been  tempting  him  from  his  collec- 
tion of  cookbooks.  So  all  these  arrangements  were  very 
important. 

Barbara  at  last  was  going  to  have  the  flower  garden 


Jack  Sterling  emcees  Make  Up  Your  Mind,  on  CBS  Radio,  M-F, 
11:30  A.M.,  as  sponsored  by  Continental  Baking  Co.  for  Wonder 
Bread  and  Hostess  Cup  Cakes.  He  is  ringmaster  of  Sealtest  Big 
Top,  CBS-TV,  Sat.,  12  noon.  The  Jack  Sterling  Show  is  heard  over 
WCBS    Radio    (New   York),   Mon.-Sat.,   5:30-7:45   A.M.    (EDT) 


46 


Jack  sometimes  thinks  the  nicest  part  of  their  spacious  house  (at  left)  is  the  tidy 
kitchen.  He  loves  to  cook,  and  often  takes  over  the  food-fixin'  chores  from  Barbara. 


she  wanted,  filled  with  the  brightest  blooins  to  be  found. 
Jack  realized  an  old  dream  of  his,  to  have  a  rough  stone 
fence,  the  kind  which  looks  as  though  it  came  up  right 
out  of  the  ground  and  really  "belongs."  The  fence  goes 
across  the  front  of  their  property  and  up  one  side,  in 
true  Connecticut  tradition. 

Jimmy  Donnelly,  one  of  their  old  friends,  gave  them 
a  good  start  on  the  landscaping  by  offering  some  fine 
shrubs,  which  surrounded  the  old  house  where  he  had 
been  living  but  was  then  giving  up,  and  four  beautiful 
blue  spruce  trees.  Actually,  weeks  before  they  moved 
in,  Jack  was  up  on  the  property  every  spare  hour, 
getting  the  lavm  and  the  garden  started,  meeting  the 
neighbors,  beginning  to  settle  into  his  role  of  "cotuitry 
squire."  And  beginning  to  love  it,  from  the  first  day. 

"I  like  the  idea  of  having  a  house  which  is  really 
on  four  levels,"  Jack  says.  "A  living  room  with  a  high, 
cathedral  ceiling,  a  dining  area  and  kitchen.  Leading  up 
from  the  hving  room  is  a  decorative  stairway,  with 
wrought-iron  railing,  to  the  bedrooms  and  upstairs  baths. 
Leading  down  from  the  living  room  just  a  few  steps  is 
a  mahogany-paneled  playroom,  (Continued  on  page  92) 


That 

and  also  very  handy  for  Daddy  Sterling's  golf  practice! 


47 


HOME  at  First  Sight 


(Continued) 


everybody  had  been  getting  into  the  act  to  help  them 
loolc  for  the  perfect  place.  Friends  sent  them  "hot  tips" 
about  property  they  had  seen  in  their  communities. 
Barbara's  dad  served  as  "advance  man"  and  put  in 
three  days  at  a  hotel  in  the  area  where  they  were  look- 
ing, scouting  every  possible  location. 

Then  it  happened,  on  a  day  when  Barbara  and  Jack 
themselves  were  combing  the  countryside  with  a  real 
estate  agent.  They  had  seen  houses  of  all  sizes  and 
shapes,  in  convenient  and  inconvenient  locations,  but 
none  quite  suited.  Then  suddenly  they  were  walking 
right  up  to  one  which  was  just  what  they  wanted.  It 
was  close  to  the  convenient  transportation  which  is  so 
necessary  for  Jack's  work,  in  a  beautiful  new  section 
of  the  town  of  New  Canaan,  on  an  acre  and  a  third  of 
ground — with  an  opportunity  to  option  the  adjoining 
land  if  they  decide  they  want  to  spread  out. 

A  four-bedroom  house  of  white  and  gray  brick  and 
wood,  set  high  on  a  ridge  from  which  there  is  a  sweep- 
ing view  of  some  of  the  prettiest  country  in  the  eastern 
United  States.  An  unlinished  house  at  the  time  they 
first  saw  it,  happily  still  at  the  stage  where  their  own 


individual  ideas  could  be  incorporated,  and  yet  well 
enough  along  so  there  wasn't  too  much  of  a  wait  before 
they  could  move  in.  Barbara  could  have  a  free  hand 
with  color  schemes,  and  the  design  of  shelf  and  .closet 
space.  Jack  could  plan  the  spot  for  the  swimming  pool 
and  the  barbecue  for  cook-outs  in  summer,  and  the 
patio.  As  everyone  knows  who  listens  to  a  Jack  Sterung 
broadcast — and  as  every  visitor  to  the  Sterling  house- 
hold surely  knows — this  is  a  man  with  considerable  skill 
with  a  skillet,  indoors  or  outdoors,  and  a  real  yen  to 
try  out  some  of  the  tantalizing  recipes  for  out-of-door 
cookery  which  had  been  tempting  him  from  his  collec- 
tion of  cookbooks.  So  all  these  arrangements  were  very 
important. 
Barbara  at  last  was  going  to  have  the  flower  garden 


Jack  Sterling  emcees  Make  Up  Your  Mind,  on  CBS  Radio,  M-f. 
U:,SO  A.M.,  as  sponsored  by  Continental  Baking  Co.  for  WoDda 
Bread  and  Hostess  Cup  Cakes.  He  is  ringmaster  of  Sealit!'  B4 
Top,  CBSTV.  Sat.,  12  noon.  The  lack  Sterling  Show  is  h"'"  "1., 
WCBS    Radio    (New   York),   Mon.-Sat.,   5:30-7:45   .^.M-   <t"' 


Jack  sometimes  thinks  the  nicest  part  of  their  specious  house  (at  left)  is  the  tidy 
kitchen.  He  loves  to  cook,  and  often  takes  over  the  food-fixin'  chores  from  Barbara, 


46 


she  wanted,  filled  with  the  brightest  blooms  to  be  found. 
Jack  realized  an  old  dream  of  his,  to  have  a  rough  stone 
fence,  the  kind  which  looks  as  though  it  came  up  right 
out  of  the  ground  and  really  "belongs."  The  fence  goes 
across  the  front  of  their  property  and  up  one  side,  in 
'rue  Connecticut  tradition. 

Jimmy  Donnelly,  one  of  their  old  friends,  gave  them 
a  good  start  on  the  landscaping  by  offering  some  fine 
shrubs,  which  surrounded  the  old  house  where  he  had 
been  living  but  was  then  giving  up,  and  four  beautiful 
blue  spruce  trees.  Actually,  weeks  before  they  moved 
in.  Jack  was  up  on  the  property  every  spare  hour, 
getting  the  lawn  and  the  garden  started,  meeting  the 
"eighbors,  beginning  to  settle  into  his  role  of  "country 
^U're."  And  beginning  to  love  it,  from  the  first  day. 

"I  like  the  idea  of  having  a  house  which  is  really 
on  four  levels,"  Jack  says.  "A  living  room  with  a  high, 
Mthedral  ceiling,  a  dining  area  and  kitchen.  Leading  up 
from  the  living  room  is  a  decorative  stairway,  with 
wrought-iion  railing,  to  the  bedrooms  and  upstairs  baths. 
Leading  doion  from  the  hving  room  just  a  few  steps  is 
^  ""ahogany-paneled  playroom,  (Continued  on  page  92) 


Thot  big  yord  is  just  fine  for  Potty  Ann.  of  course— 
ond  olso  very  handy  for  Daddy  Sterling's  golf  practice! 


Below,  Ihe  Baxters  mark  a  historic  momenf  in  The  Guiding 
Light  script — ^the  day  Charles  "died,"  In  the  role  of  Dr.  John 
Brooks.  Party  guests  Paul  Potter  (center)  and  Barry  Thomson 
(right)  are  very  much  a  part  ol  the  plot,  for  Paul  ploys  Dr.  Jim 
Kelly,   Barry  is  Dr.   Bart  Thompson — John's  ambitious  "father!" 


Glimpses  of  a  gala  evening:  Donald  Buka,  popular  actor  in  many 
a  drama,  lighting  a  cigarette  for  Miss  Lynn  De  Cesare  . .  .  Mildred 
Dilling,  world-renowned  harpist,  playing  "Clair  de  Lune"  for  the 
spellbound  guests  . . .  Peter  Hobbs,  who  stars  as  Peter  Ames  in  The 
Secret  Storm,  dancing  with  his  bride,  actress  Parker  McCormock. 


/ 


H 


ome  and  career  weave  a  colorful  pattern  of  happiness  for  Mark  Stevens 


^r-r 


\. 


\ 


y 


( 


I 


Mark  Stevens  named  their 
daughter  Arrelle  Elizabeth.  Wife 
Annelie  named  their  son  Mark  Richard 


56 


The  haunting  ballad  dedicated  to 
gallant  Helen  Emerson   (as  played  by 
Flora  Campbell)  !  Will  it  become  the 
first  "hit  song"  from  a  daytime  drama? 


Words  by 
KAY  TWOMEY  &  FRED  WISE 


Valiant  Lady  Theme 


Slowly 
BI>7      Bl>+7 


(True  Devotion) 

From  The  CBS -TV  Serial 
"Valiant  Lady" 


Music  by 
JOHNGARTa.s.c.a.p. 


Et, 


Abm 


^ 


** 


^ 


t 


t 


Eb 


* 


^ 


I        will 


give     you . 


TRUE   DE     -      VO  -  TION. 


s 


? 


Ja 


* 


mp  [a  tempo 


HtF^ 


1=^ 


^3^^ 


-&■ 


r=^ 


^ 


-f 


EL>       bI>7sus4  Bb7      Eb 


m 


^ 


Edim? 


^ 


Fm7 


Bl>7 


^ 


^ 


With     a  love      that's  as        deep        as    the        o  -  cean. 


& 


W 


-•n''i>^  J 


rr=^ 


r 


Fm 


^ 


? 


t 


t=^ 


r~f 


P 


^ 


i 


^ 


There's  no 


^f 


^ 


^ 


r^ 


G7sus4 
G7 


Cm 


i 


Cm7 


r  ^  1^  J 


P^^? 


to      our      sto  -  ry. 


For  a  love         such  as 


^ 


^z — o-   _ 


f    M 


-'»^,  ^  J'^^^ 


# 


^^ 


F 


F 


ts^ 


g 


^Jr  /  ^^ 


^ 


*=* 


•f 


f 


F7 


Bb7sus4 


Bl>7         Bb7  Bb+7      E\, 


$ 


m 


-&■ 


A>m 


^ 


^^ 


ours       glows  in         glo  -  ry. 


TRUE  DE  -   VO  -  TlOr 


will  not 


^S 


^ 


S 


i 


^   ^  FT 


f=7 


r^ 


f 


1,5 


'r-Li'i  r  J 


w 


^ 


<9- 


^ 


^^ 


s 


f 


■77 


Eb 


BWsus4  bI>7      EI> 


^ 


El>7 


Ab 


^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


fal  -  ter. 


It's      as        strong       as      the      Rock  of    Gi    -     bral-tar. 


^ 


^ 


S 


¥^1;=^ 


S 


^ 


W 


^m 


f 

Al. 


^      f 


^ 


^ 


i 


^ 


3^ 


3x: 


r=^ 


^ 


^=^ 


f 


3s: 


Al^ 


m 


El, 


P 


Cm  G     Cm 


J       j  J 


±=± 


W 


That's  why      I  give  you       my       TRUE  DE  -  VO  -  TIOfT 


^ 


?JT7~7^ 


p==^ 


w. 


^ 


W: 


^= 


~ 


zn. 


T 


J'T~'J 


^ *■ 


un-til     the 


P 


1 


m 


^ 


Fm7 


Bi>7sus4 


S 


.1   jJir 


1. 


Eb         Adim7       b!>7       Bi>7  Bt>+7 


El>     Al>m  Et 


^=#^ 


day       when  you  say        you're       mine. 


I    will       mine 


i>  ^'^'  ^i  -  ^  I 


^ 


5 


5 


f 


^ 


p 


? 


^^^-    a  tempo 

ks 


F=1^ 


I 


Copyright  1955  by  Ross  Jungnickel,  Inc.,  New  York,  N.Y. 
Sole  selling  agent.  Hill  and  Range  Songs,  Inc.,  1650  Broadway,  New  York,  N.Y. 
International  Copyright  Secured  Made  in  U.S.A.  All  Rights  Reserved 

Flora  Campbell  stars  in  Valiant  Lady,  GBS-TV,  M-F,  12  noon  EDT,  as  sponsored  by  General  Mills,  The  Toni  Co.,  and  Wesson  Oil. 


57 


B 


e  what  you  want  to  be 


All    aboard    the    40-foot    trailer    which    Pres    and 
Sheila   Foster  coll   "home,"  on  the   hlal   Roach   lot. 


Breakfast  and  lunch  are  no.problenn  for  homecom- 
ing Pres,  just  30  seconds  from  the  Waterfront  set. 


Between  shooting  dates,  the   Fosters  move  to  their 
400-acre  ronch,  where  Pres  is  o  real  tractor  expert. 


Daughter  Stephanie,  16,  gives  Dad  a  big  welcome  at 
Twin  Oaks,  the  Foster  ranch  north  of  Los  Angeles. 


58 


There's  music  in  those  hills  where  Twin  Oaks  nestles! 
Sheila  has  a  fine  voice,  and  Pres  not  only  sings  and  plays 
the  piano  but  also  has  a  remarkable  collection  of  guitars. 


Preston  Foster  has  the  strength  of 
his  beloved  sea — as  actor,  musician 
— and  as  Cap'n  John  in  Waterfront 

By   BUD  GOODE 

STEPPING  OFF  the  Waterfront  set,  Preston  Foster 
never  really   steps   out  of   character.   Except  for 
their  names,  tugboat  captain  John  Herrick  and 
he-in66i  actor  Pres  Foster  are  one  and  the  same  per- 
son. In  fact,  when  Ben  Fox  first  created  the  role  of 
Cap'n  John,  he  described  his  character  in  these  words: 
"A  courageous,  God-fearing  man  with  great  physical 
strength,  intelligence,  and  a  sense  of  humor — a  man 
who  loves  his  country  first,  with  his  tugboat,  Cheryl 
Ann,  a  close  second.  .  .  ."  Tall,  dark  and  robust  Pres- 
ton Foster  was  Ben  Fox's   {Continued  on  -page  95) 

Preston  is  Cap'n  John  in  Waterfront,  a  Roland  Reed  Production 
distributed  by"  MCA-TV.  Check  local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


•rM 


*■  ,i- 


^   ,-^.. 


^^ 


.<??-- 


\ 


^t  ^'^  fs  ''<'>*! 


^MM 


■SM 


60 


Iw^r-iiym:^ 


1.  Peter  Ames,  a  widower,  hires  Jane  Edwards  as  his  housekeeper.  But  he  is  drawn 
more  and  more  to  her  as  he  sees  her  genuine  warmth  in  such  acts  as  the  birthday 
party  for  Amy  and  s'ees  also  the  affection  in  which  Amy,  Jerry  and  Susan  hold  Jane. 


2.  Jane,  too,  has  lost  the  one  she  loved.  Her  husband 
Bruce  Edwards  was  an  Air  Force  pilot  shot  down  over  the 
Pacific  ond  Jane  still  recalls  with  sorrow  their  last  meeting. 


THREE  lonely  people — brought  together  by  the  strange 
twists  and  turns  of  fate — each  reaching  out  for  love, 
for  a  companion  against  the  secret  storm  raging 
within.  .  .  .  Peter  Ames  had  lost  himself  in  grief,  when 
his  wife  Ellen  died.  Not  until  the  courts  warned  him 
that  he  might  lose  custody  of  their  children  did  Peter 
accept  the  fact  of  Ellen's  death  and  devote  himself  to 
Jerry,  17,  Susan,  18,  and  Amy,  10.  But  now  Peter  has 
foimd  the  woman  who  could  bring  new  warmth  and 
affection  into  their  lives.  .  .  .  Jane  Edwards  possesses  all 
the  wonderful  qualities  Peter  had  loved  in  Hlen,  and, 
when  Jane  comes  into  his  home  as  housekeeper,  he  is 
drawn  more  and  more  to  a  new  love.  .  .  .  But  PauUne 
TyreU  Harris — who  once  considered  herself  engaged 
to  Peter,  before  he  eloped  with  her  sister — had  hoped 
that  Peter  woxild  turn  to  her,  after  Ellen's  death.  She 
could  never  forgive  either  Peter  or  Ellen  for  their 
elopement  and — though  she  herself  had  wed  John  Har- 
ris— her  own  marriage  had  soon  ended  in  divorce.  Now, 
twice  rejected  by  Peter,  Pauline  is  filled  with  anger  and 
jealousy.  .  .  .  Like  Peter  himself,  Jane  has  memories  of 
a  happy   marriage — to   Bruce  Edwards,   an   Air  Force 


Shadows  from  out  of  the  past 

and  another  woman's  jealousy  cloud 

Peter  Ames'  hopes  for  the  future 


3.  The  loneliness  they  have  both  known  seems  over 
as  Peter  and  Jane  find  a  new  love  together.  But 
as  Peter  talks  of  marriage,  Jane  remembers  Bruce. 


See  Next  Page] 


61 


THE   SECRET  STORIMI 


4.  In  her  loneliness,  Jane  had  been  deceived  Into  marrying 
Skip  Curtis,  a  petty  criminal.  Now  Skip,  in  a  battle  with 
the  police,  has  been  shot  and  the  doctor  fears  it  is  fatal. 


pilot  who  had  been  shot  down  during  the  war.  After 
seven  years,  Bruce  had  been  declared  legally  dead  and 
Jane,  in  her  loneliness,  had  married  Skip  Curtis — only 
to  discover  that  Skip  was  really  a  petty  thief  and  con- 
fidence man.  She  left  him  soon  after,  but  Skip  always 
managed  to  find  her  when  he  needed  ftinds.  .  .  .  When 
Jane  had  come  to  Woodbridge  and  found  new  hope  in 
Peter  Ames'  home,  Skip — fleeing  from  the  FBI — had 
once  more  found  her  and  appealed  for  the  help  and 
protection  she'd  always  given  him.  Then  Jane  discovers 
that  she  is  going  to  bear  Skip's  child!  Though  she  con- 
fesses the  true  circumstances  to  Peter,  he  refuses  to 
allow  her  to  disclose  the  identity  of  her  husband,  for  fear 


Pictured  here,  as  seen  on  TV,  are: 

Peter  Ames Peter  Hobbs 

Pauline   Harris Haila    Stoddard 

Jane   Edwards Virginia   Dwyer 

Grace   Tyrell Marjorie   Gateson 

Skip   Curtis Martin   Brooks 

Bruce  Edwards Biff  MacGuire 

Susan  Ames Jean  Mowry 

Jerry  Ames Warren   Berlinger 

Amy  Ames Jada   Rowland 

Dr.   Hadley Jay   Jostyn 

Bart  Fenway Whitfield   Connor 

The  Secret  Storm  is  seen  on  CBS-TV,  Monday  through  Friday, 
4:15  P.M.  EDT,  for  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  and  Boyle-Midway. 


{Continued) 


5.  Before  Skip  dies,  in  the  same  hospital  where  Jane  has 
just  had  his  son,  he  begs  Jane's  forgiveness.  But  Jane  now 
feels,  becouse  of  this  marriage,  she  is  unworthy  of  Peter. 


that  she  will  be  arrested  as  Skip's  accomplice.  .  .  . 
Pauline  is  quick  to  take  advantage  of  the  situation.  She 
accuses  Peter  as  the  man  responsible  for  Jane's  preg- 
nancy— and  brings  charges  against  him  as  an  unfit 
father,  in  an  attempt  to  gain  custody  of  the  three  chil- 
dren. However,  the  charges  are  dropped  when  Jane 
reveals  her  marriage  to  Skip.  .  .  .  Meanwhile,  Skip 
returns  to  Woodbridge  and  takes  refuge  in  Pauline's 
home,  where  he  attempts  to  hold  out  against  the  police. 
Wounded  in  the  ensuing  gun  battle,  he  is  taken  to.  the 
same  hospital  where  Jane  has  just  given  birth  to  their 
son — and  begs  her  forgiveness  before  he  dies.  .  .  .  Feel- 
ing unworthy  of  Peter's  love,  after  all  that  has  hap- 
pened— and  troubled  by  dreams  of  her  first  husband, 
Bruce — Jane  is  grateful  to  Grace  Tyrell,  Peter's  under- 
standing mother-in-law,  for  offering  her  a  haven  in  her 
home.  She  does  not  know  that  Bruce  and  his  mother, 
Mary  Edwards,  have  traced  her  to  Woodbridge  during 
the  much- publicized  trial.  For,  just  as  Jane  dreamed, 
Bruce  is  indeed  alive,  nursed  back  to  health  by  natives 
of  the  islands  where  he  had  been  shot  down!  .  .  .  Though 
Mary  Edwards  understands  the  loneliness  which  Jane 


62 


6.  Jane  and  her  son  go  to  live  with  Grace  Tyrell,  Peter's 
mother-in-law.  Meanwhile,  Pauline  watches  with  jealousy 
as  Peter  woits  for  Jane  to  decide  whether  to  marry  him. 


had  felt  through  those  long  years,  Bruce  is  hurt  that 
Jane  did  not  wait  for  him — and  bitter  about  the  scream- 
ing headlines  which  linked  Jane  and  Skip.  He  leaves 
Woodbridge  without  seeing  or  notifying  Jane  of  his 
return.  .  .  .  Seemingly,  Jane  is  now  free  to  accept  the 
love  and  protection  Peter  has  offered  her,  free  to  reward 
the  man  who  has  staked  his  home,  his  children  and  his 
welfare  on  her  innocence.  But — even  as  Pauline  herself 
seems  ready  to  relinquish  her  own  dreams  of  love  and 
revenge — a  new  danger  threatens  from  another  quarter. 
.  .  .  During  his  trial,  Peter  had  been  removed  from  his 
post  as  president  of  the  store  owned  by  the  Tyrell  fam- 
ily. Now  that  he  has  returned  to  his  job,  Peter  finds 
certain  irregularities  for  which  he  must  question  Bart 
Fenway,  a  good  friend  of  Pauline's.  .  .  .  What  new 
menace  do  these  business  troubles  bring  into  Peter's 
life?  Will  Jane — still  xmaware  that  Bruce  has  returned 
from  the  dead — give  Peter  the  answer  he  has  been 
longing  for?  And  what  of  Paiiline,  who  has  taken  drastic 
measures  before  and  will  not  hesitate  to  do  so  again? 
What  secret  storm  is  brewing — ^just  over  the  horizon — 
for  these  three  lonely  people? 


7.  When  Peter  returns  to  work, 
he  questions  Pauline  and  Bart 
Fenway,  who  had  replaced  Pet- 
er, about  business  irregularities. 


■*ii«i8 


^rvi 


laughter 
in  the  sfm 


The  climb  from  obscurity  wasn't  easy.   But,   with   native  talent  and   a 
hard-earned  gift  for  comedy,  Jackie  has  made  himself    'The  Greatest." 


I 


Being  poor  is  no  joke. 
But  it  taught 
Jacicie  Gieason  how  to 
touch  the  heart— and 
funny  bone— of  millions! 

By  GLADYS  HALL 


The,  Honeymooners — with 
Jackie,  Audrey  Meadows 
and  Art  Carney  as 
"people  we  all  know" — 
grew  out  of  Jackie's  ex- 
perience.   But  he  was  born 
with  that  genius  for 
music  and  showmanship! 


THERE  IS  much  food  for  thought  in  the  fact 
that  so  many  of  the  great  comics  of  our 
day — Jimmy  Durante,  Groucho  Marx,  Danny 
Kaye,  Jack  Benny,  Bob  Hope,  George  Gobel, 
Red   Skelton,   Sid   Caesar,   Milton   Berle,   Red 
Buttons,  and  "The  Greatest"  himself — were 
all  poor  boys,  most  of  them  very  poor.  It's 
almost  as  though  only  those  who,  as  youngsters, 
were  obhged  to  make  their  own  laughs — 
if  they  were  to  have  any — ^make  their  millions 
as  laughmakers  later  on. 

Since  poverty  seems  to  be  the  prep  school 
from  which  the  real  Clown  Princes  graduate, 
then  poverty,  you  might    (Continued  on  page  75) 

The  Honeymooners,  Starring  Jackie  Gleason,  CBS-TV. 
Sat.,  8:30  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Buick  Dealers. 
It  is  preceded  on  CBS-TV,  at  8  P.M.,  by  Stage  Show, 
starring  the  Dorsey  Brothers  with  the  June  Taylor 
Girls,  as  sponsored  by  the   Nestle   Co.  for  Nescafe. 


laughter 
in  the  stars 


The  climb  from  obscurity  wasn't  easy.  But,  with  native  talent  and  o 
hard-earned  gift  for  comedy,  Jackie  has  made  himself    The  greatest. 


Being  poor  is  no  joke. 
But  it  taught 
Jackie  Gleason  how  to 
touch  the  heqrt-ond 
funny  bone-of  millions! 

By  GLADYS  HALL 


THERE  IS  much  food  for  thought  in  the  fact 
that  so  many  of  the  great  comics  of  our 

day — Jimmy  Durante,  Groucho  Marx,  Danny 
Kaye,  Jack  Benny,  Bob  Hope,  George  Gobel, 
Red  Skelton,   Sid   Caesar,  Milton  Berle,  Red 
Buttons,  and  "The  Greatest"  himself — were 
all  poor  boys,  most  of  them  very  poor.  It's 
almost  as  though  only  those  who,  as  youngsters, 
were  obliged  to  make  their  own  laughs — 
if  they  were  to  have  any — make  their  millions 
as  laughmakers  later  on. 

Since  poverty  seems  to  be  the  prep  school 
from  which  the  real  Clown  Princes  graduate, 
then  poverty,  you  might    (Continued  on  page  75) 

The  Honeymooners,  Starring  Jackie  Gleason,  CBS-TV. 
Sat..  8:30  P.M.  EDT,  is  sponsored  by  Buick  Dealers. 
It  is  preceded  on  CBS-TV,  at  8  P.M..  by  Stage  Show, 
starring  the  Dorsey  Brothers  with  the  June  Taylor 
Girls,  as  sponsored  by  the  Nestle  Co.  for  Nescafe. 


The  Honeymooners — with 
Jackie,  Audrey  Meadows 
and  Art  Carney  as 
"people  we  all  know" — 
grew  out  of  Jackie's  ex- 
perience.  But  he  was  born 
with  that  genius  for 
music  ond  showmonship! 


Who  are  the  10  Best  Dressed 


t 


VistJtlbdMf  ! 


WHO  IS  IT  that  names  the  people  in  those  hsts 
of  best  dressed  men?   In  television,  it's  you, 
the  viewers,  who  can  now  vote  for  your  choice 
of  the  ten  best  dressed  men  before  the  cameras, 
in  a  brand-new  contest  sponsored  by  TV  Radio 
Mirror.  And,  as  a  member  of  our  sartorial 
board  of  electors,  you  can  win  a  handsome,  hand- 
tailored,  complete  man's  wardrobe  for  yourself 
or — if  you  only  figuratively  wear  the  pants  in  your 
family — ^for  the  man  in  your  life.  .  .  .  All  you  have 
to  do  is  vote  for  the  ten  stars  who,  in  your 
opinion,  deserve  the  Eagle  Award  for  being  one 
of  the  ten  best  dressed  men  in  television.  We've 
provided  a  representative  list  of  men-about-tele- 
vision  on  our  ballot.  But  we've  also  left  space 
for  your  write-in  votes.  .  .  .  After  you've  voted 
for  your  choice  of  ten,  simply  complete  the  follow- 
ing sentence  in  fifty  words  or  less:  I  think  a 
man  should  he  well  dressed  because.  .  .  .  Then  mail 
in  the  complete  ballot  and  coupon  on  page  68. 
The  exciting  prize — a  suit,   topcoat,   sports   coat 
and  slacks,  all  hand-tailored  by  Eagle  Clothes, 
Inc.,  long-time  leaders  in  men's  fashions — could 
be  yours.  .  .  .  Your  votes  for  the  ten  best  dressed 
men  wiU  be  tabulated,  and  the  March  issue  of 
TV  Radio  Mirror  will  announce  whom  the  viewers 
have  chosen  for  the  Eagle  Award.  But  your  votes 
will  not  count  in  the  winning  of  the  prize  wardrobe. 
The  prize  will  be  awarded  on  the  basis  of  origi- 
nality and  imagination  in  completing  the   contest 
sentence.  .  .  .  We  are  holding  this  contest  because 
we  think  that  Sloppy  Joe  is  on  his  way  out — and 
it's  the  television  camera  that's  hastening  his 
departure.  This  is  your  chance  to  vote  for  your 
choice  of  the  ten  best  dressed  men  in  television 
and   also   win   a  wardrobe   that  would   make   any 
man  a  contender  for  the  Eagle  Award. 


Continued 


> 


Doorway  fo  success  opens  that  much  more  easily  when 
a  man  is  confident  of  being  well  dressed.  It's  first  im- 
pressions that  count,  and  he's  sure  to  make  a  good 
first  impression  in  an  Eagle  Clothes  topcoat,  only  one 
part  of  a  fashionable  wardrobe  that  could  be  yours. 


Men  in  TV? 


Mark  your  ballot  for  television's 

ten  best  dressed  men — and  ivin  a  man's 

wardrobe  that's  tailored  for  success 


Handsomely  tailored  suit,  sports  coot  and  slacks  round 
out  the  Eagle  Clothes  wardrobe  that  is  the  prize  simply 
for  telling  us  why  you  think  a  nrian  should  be  well  dressed. 

CONTEST  RULES— READ  CAREFULLY 

1.  Each  entry  must  include  the  ballot  containing  your  choice 
of  the  ten  best  dressed  men  in  television,  plus  your  fifty-word 
statement  telling  why  you  think  a  man  should  be  well  dressed. 

2.  Address  all  entries  to:  The  Ten  Best  Dressed  Men  in  TV, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  P.O.  Box  1404,  Grand  Central  Station, 
New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

3.  This  contest  ends  midnight,  Wednesday,  November  30,  1955. 
Entries  postmarked  after  that  date  will  not  be  considered. 

4.  The  prize  winner  will  receive  a  suit,  topcoat,  sports  coat 
and  slacks  tailored  by  Eagle  Clothes,  Inc. 

5.  Entries  will  be  judged  on  the  basis  of  originality  in  stating 
why  it  is  important  for  a  man  to  be  well  dressed. 

6.  You  may  submit  more  than  one  entry.  In  case  of  a  tie,  dupli- 
cate prizes  will  be  awarded.  The  judges'  decision  will  be  final. 

7.  This  contest  is  open  to  everyone  in  the  United  States  and 
Canada,  except  employees  (and  their  relatives)  of  Macfadden 
Publications,  Inc.,  Eagle  Clothes,  Inc.,  its  dealers  and  agencies. 

8.  All  entries  become  the  property  of  Macfadden  Publications, 
Inc.  No  correspondence  can  be  entered  into  in  regard  to  en- 
tries. Names  of  the  ten  best  dressed  men  on  TV  and  the  prize 
winner   will    be   announced   in    our   March    1956    issue. 


67 


ViMThdcufI 


Vote  for  your  choice  of  the  ten  best  dressed  men  in  TV  by  checking   10  names  below. 


Steve  Allen D 

Desi  Arnai D 

Jack  Bailey D 

John  Baragrey   D 

Jack  Barry D 

Jack  Benny   D 

Milton  Berle D 

Sherman  Billingsley D 

Ray  Bolger D 

Charles  Boyer D 

Alan  Bunce D 

George  Burns  D 

Sid  Caesar D 

Ken  Carson D 

Bud  Collyer D 

Ronald  Colman [H 

Perry  Como D 

Richard  Coogan □ 

Alistair  Cooke   Q 

Bing  Crosby □ 

Bob  Crosby Q 

Bill  Cullen n 

Bob  Cummings  □ 

John  Daly D 

Dennis  Day □ 

Richard   Denning □ 

Walt  Disney   Q 

Paul    Dixon Q 

Peter  Donald D 

James  Dunn Q 

Jimmy  Durante □ 

Douglas  Edwards   □ 


Ralph  Edwards  Q 

Charles  Farrell   D 

Eddie  Fisher D 

Tennessee  Ernie  Ford Q 

Dave  Sarroway   Q 

Jackie  Gleason □ 

George  Gobel    □ 

Arthur  Godfrey □ 

Reed  Hadley  Q 

Peter  Lind  Hayes Q 

Horace  Heidt □ 

Peter  Hobbs  Q 

Bob  Hope  D 

Warren  Hull Q 

Dennis  James □ 

Durward  Kirby Q 

Julius  La  Rosa □ 

Frankie  Laine □ 

Peter  Lawford   Q 

Jack  Lescoulie □ 

Jerry  Lewis  □ 

Robert  Q.  Lewis Q 

Liberace □ 

Art  Linkletter D 

James  Lipton   Q 

Bill  Lundigan □ 

Ted  Mack Q 

Hal  March Q 

Dean  Martin □ 

Tony  Martin □ 

Tony  Marvin  □ 

Groucho  Marx □ 

Randy  Merriman □ 


Ray  Milland  D 

Robert  Montgomery □ 

Garry  Moore □ 

Arthur  Murray □ 

Edward  R.  Murrow  .  .  .', □ 

Herb  Nelson n 

Ozzie  Nelson □ 

David  Niven  Q 

Donald  O'Connor Q 

Terry  O'Sullivan □ 

Jack  Paar Q 

Frank  Parker  D 

Bert  Parks Q 

Dick  Powell n 

Ronald  Reagan □ 

Raymond  Scott □ 

Herb  Shriner   □ 

Jack  Smith Q 

Robert  Sterling □ 

Mark  Stevens □ 

Mike  Stokey Q 

Ed  Sullivan   □ 

John  Cameron  Swayze □ 

Danny  Thomas Q 

Fred  Waring Q 

Jack  Webb D 

Paul  Whiteman Q 

Earl  Wrightson Q 

Robert  Young D 

Florian  ZaBach    Q 

For  other  votes: 

D 

....• a 

:  D 


Complete  the  following  sentence  in  50  words  or  less:   I  think  a  man  should  be  well  dressed  because: 


NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY  or  TOWN STATE. 


Mail  your  entry  to: 

The  Ten  Best  Dressed  Men  in  TV 

TV  Radio  Mirror 

P.  O.  Box  1404 

Grand  Central  Station 

New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


68 


More  Than  a  Dream 

(Continued  jrom  page  37) 
seven-year-old  daughter,  Connie,  popped 
out,  waved  a  noisy  goodbye  to  her  friends, 
rushed  up,  threw  her  arms  around  her 
mother  and  planted  a  big  hello  kiss  on 
Brooks'  cheek.  In  the  same  perpetual 
motion,  Connie  hopped  on  her  waiting 
bicycle,  parked  behind  the  gate — and  with 
a  shout  of  "I'll  race  you  to  the  bam!" — 
she  was  off  across  the  pasture. 

With  the  gate  closed.  Brooks  drove  over 
"their"  bridge  (Eve  had  always  dreamed 
of  having  a  farm  with  a  bridge),  past  the 
lambs  in  pasture,  the  caretaker's  cottage, 
through  the  small  fruit  orchard,  and  up  to 
the  two  white  painted  cottages  nestled 
against  the  side  of  the  hill.  There  the 
nurse  waited,  holding  their  two-year-old 
son  Duncan  by  the  hand  and  their  one- 
year-old  Douglas  in  her  free  arm. 

Though,  as  "Miss  Brooks,"  Eve  had  been 
in  make-believe  classrooms  all  year,  she 
never  minded  coming  home  to  this  small 
classroom  of  her  own.  With  her  four  chil- 
dren happily  waiting  for  her,  and  sur- 
rounded by  the  colorful  beauty  of  their 
farm.  Eve  knew  that  a  long-held  dream 
had  become  a  reality. 

"We  have  all  had  dreams,"  she  says, 
"dreams  of  travel,  of  having  a  place  of 
our  own,  and  of  happy  families.  But  I've 
learned — and,  I  might  add,  I've  learned 
from  Brooks — that,  if  you  want  your 
dreams  to  come  true,  you  have  to  be 
specific  about  them.  You  have  to  have  a 
clear  picture  of  your  dream.  This  tells 
you  what  first  steps  to  take  to  make  it  a 
reality.  You  have  to  plan  your  dreams 
to  make  them  come  true." 

Urooks  adds:  "Take  our  trip  to  Europe, 
for  example.  For  two  years,  we  dreamed 
of  that  visit,  but  something  always  inter- 
fered. People  consider  Europe  such  a  far 
step,  a  trip  you  have  to  prepare  for,  and 
something  always  seems  to  come  up.  You 
put  off  and  put  off,  until  it's  too  late.  So 
Eve  and  I  decided  that,  if  we  were  going 
to  Europe,  we'd  make  a  reservation  and  a 
down  payment— then  we'd  have  to  go!" 

"And  then,"  says  Eve,  "we  had  a  baby! 
Our  adopted  son,  Duncan,  arrived.  Yes, 
we  could  have  dropped  the  trip.  But  we 
had  everything  ready.  So  we  said,  'All 
right,  we'll  have  Duncan  for  a  month  be- 
fore we  leave,  then  we'll  go  on  as  planned. 
We  won't  miss  too  much  of  him,  for — since 
he's  so  small — he'll  spend  most  of  the  next 
six  weeks  sleeping  on  his  face!' " 

"Your  dreams  don't  bear  fruit,"  con- 
tinues Brooks,  "until  you  make  specific 
plans  about  them.  The  first  thing  we  did 
was  figure  the  approximate  date  Eve  would 
finish  work  on  her  TV  series,  how  long 
it  would  take  us  to  pack,  how  long  to  get 
to  New  York — not  leaving  us  time  to 
ponder — and  how  long  to  get  the  children 
established  with  our  friends,  the  Amsters, 
in  Connecticut. 

"In  the  meantime,  we  talked  to  friends 
who'd  been  to  Europe,  asking  them  where 
we  should  visit.  From  this  'don't  miss'  list, 
we  made  up  an  itinerary  with  the  miles 
between  stops,  when  and  where  we'd  pick 
up  our  car,  where  we'd  stay,  and  how  long. 
We  almost  knew  the  maitre  d's  names  for 
every  restaurant  we  didn't  want  to  miss! 

"We  gave  the  hst  to  the  girls  so  they 
could  follow  us  on  the  map  and  know 
where  we  were  at  all  times.  That  way, 
they  could  write  us  cards.  We  sent  cards 
back  to  them.  Eve  wrote  while  I  drove. 
We  would  buy  cards  in  Paris,  write  them 
on  our  way  to  Geneva,  mail  them  in  Italy. 
Our  French  cards  were  mailed  in  Italy, 
and  our  Italian  cards  in  Germany.  In  the 
six  weeks  we  were  gone,  we  never  did 
match  card  and  country. 


69 


"But  as  a  result  of  our  planning,"  says 
Brooks,  "our  dream  of  visiting  Europe 
came  true  to  the  letter.  Halfway  across  the 
English  moors,  we  did  get  a  little  'Paris- 
homesick'  and  went  back  there  a  day  ear- 
lier than  we'd  planned.  But  otherwise,  we 
followed  our  schedule  to  the  second.  Like 
our  trip  to  Europe,  if  you  want  any  dream 
to  come  true,  you  have  to  plan  it  in  detail." 

"And  that,"  says  Eve,  "is  how  we  got 
our  farm,  Westhaven.  When  Brooks  and 
I  were  married  in  Connecticut,  in  1951,  on 
the  50-acre  farm  that  belongs  to  the  Am- 
sters,  we  planned  someday  to  have  a  place 
just  like  theirs — birch  forest,  running 
stream,  and  our  own  pond.  We  went 
through  a  great  deal  of  trouble  to  keep 
our  wedding  from  being  discovered,  by 
the  way,  and  the  farm,  near  a  little  town 
called  Shelton,  was  so  well  hidden  that 
the  only  newspaper  to  find  us  was  the 
local  gazette — the  little  lady  reporter  who 
came  chugging  out  Ln  an  old  Ford  discov- 
ered us  only  because  she  doubled  as 
census-taker." 

During  the  next  three  years  of  their 
marriage,  Eve  and  Brooks  continued  to 
share  the  dream  of  finding  a  place  just  like 
the  Amster  farm  in  Connecticut — and  they 
planned  this  dream  down  to  the  last  de- 
tail. "First  of  all,"  says  Brooks,  "we  wanted 
room  for  the  kids  to  run  in.  Then,  of 
course,  it  had  to  be  a  Pennsylvania  Dutch 
red  barn.  We  wanted  a  vegetable  garden 
and  country  flowers  and  animals.  We 
got  them  all.  Though,  when  I  first  saw 
our  new  place,  I  wasn't  so  sure. 

"To  begin  with,  it  was  raining.  We'd 
been  visiting  the  Alan  Ladd  country  ranch. 
We'd  heard  this  place  was  up  for  sale.  It 
was  early  spring,  and  things  were  green. 
They  should  have  been — it  had  poured 
down  rain  for  four  days.  This  is  where 
the  bridge  comes  in — we  had  to  cross  a 
ravine  to  get  to  the  property.  Eve  said, 
'Oh,  I've  always  wanted  a  place  with  a 
bridge  with  a  little  stream  running  under 
it.  And  look  at  those  oaks!  Doesn't  it 
remind  you  of  Connecticut!' 

"  'Yes,'  I  said,  'but,  remember,  we  only 
want  this  as  a  weekend  place — and  it 
isn't  going  to  rain  every  weekend.  Be- 
sides, the  barn's  white,  not  red,  and  it 
costs  too  much!' 

"But,"  Brooks  continues,  "when  Eve  saw 
the  waterfall  in  back  of  the  tennis  courts, 
she  knew  she'd  found  our  new  home. 
You  might  like  to  know  that  it  hasn't 
rained  heavily  enough,  since  then,  to  fill 
the  ravine.  Needless  to  say,  there's  been 
no  water  in  the  waterfall,  either.- 

"We  bought  it,  anyway — and  have  never 
been  happier.  'Today,  I  like  to  think  that 
we  were  the  only  people  in  sunny  South- 
ern California  who  saw  a  place  on  a  mis- 
erably rainy  day  and  fell  in  love  with  it." 

"But  the  white  barns  didn't  stay  that 
way  for  long,"  says  Eve.  "Brooks  and  I 
started  out  with  the  red  paint  and  soon  had 
them  all  well  covered.  "Then  we  decorated 
them  with  hex  signs  that  were  symbolic 
of  all  the  little  things  that  went  to  round 
out  our  dreams — animals,  flowers,  and 
white  picket  fences! 

"Hex  signs,  you  know,"  explains  Eve, 
"were  used  extensively  by  the  Amish  and 
Pennsylvania  Dutch  farmers  on  their 
barns  to  ward  ofE  evil  spirits.  We  had  an 
old  book  of  hex  signs.  We  used  some  of 
their  designs,  and  made  up  others  that 
best  fitted  our  own  needs.  We  made  one, 
for  example,  that  was  a  big  circle  divided 
into  four  parts  with  a  bright  red  heart  in 
each  quarter  section.  When  our  daugh- 
^  ter,  Connie,  asked  why  the  heart,  Brooks 
^  said:  'We  use  the  heart  because  it's  part 
g  of  us,  because  we  love  the  farm,  and  be- 
cause we  are  in   love.' " 

"It  didn't  take  long,"  says  Brooks,  "for 
us  to  paint  the  barns,  stock  the  farm  with 


sixty-two  chickens,  four  ducks,  a  dog — 
our  Bassett  hound,  Gertrude — a  few  stray 
cats,  rabbits,  sheep,  twelve  turkeys,  and 
four  cows.  We  even  have  a  vegetable 
garden  and  the  kids  love  to  work  in  it." 

"And  we  never  buy  eggs  any  more," 
says  Eve.  "The  girls  and  I,  together, 
gather  the  chicken  eggs,  and  we  feed  the 
white  turkeys.  They're  my  favorites  at 
the  moment.  They  can  see  us  coming  a 
mile  away  with  their  greens.  You've  never 
seen  so  much  excitement  in  all  your  life 
as  white  turkeys  waiting  for  their  supper! 

"The  farm — which  has  become  our  full- 
time  home — has  been  wonderful  for  the 
children.  They  even  love  the  country 
school.  They  pedal  their  bicycles  through 
the  little  grove  we  call  our  fruit  tree  or- 
chard, down  the  hill,  and  tuck  the  bikes 
behind  the  gate  where  they  meet  this  tre- 
mendous yellow  bus  loaded  with  kids. 
They  just  adore  it! 

"It's  quite  terrific  the  way  the  girls — 
and  the  boys,  too,  for  that  matter — ^have 
grown  since  we  came  out  here  a  year  ago 
in  April.  We  took  movies  of  them  out  by 
the  barn,  then  three  months  later  we  took 
the  same  type  of  movies  in  the  same  spot. 
I  must  say  I  was  kind  of  startled  to  see 
how  white  and  thin  they  looked  in  the 
earlier  reels,  by  comparison!  The  girls 
were  brown  as  berries,  and  Liza  had 
grown  about  four  inches  and  her  hair  had 
grown  about  a  foot! 

"The  girls,  of  course,  love  the  farm. 
And  why  not!  Liza  has  her  own  pinto 
pony.  Patches,  which  she  bridles  and  sad- 
dles all  by  herself,  leaping  on  and  off  and 
riding    around    like    a    little    Miss    Gene 


GIVE— 

Strike  back  at  CANCER 


Autry!  And  Connie  has  her  rabbits— she 
hand-feeds  them  carrots  fresh  froni  the 
garden.  The  other  day,  I  asked  her  if  she 
minded  cleaning  up  in  her  room,  and  she 
replied,  'I  can't  right  now,  Mother,  got  to 
go  out  to  pick  the  carrots!'  Talk  about 
falling  in  love  with  the  farm:  Brooks  and 
I  were  in  the  city  recently — we  keep  an 
apartment  there — and  had  taken  Liza 
along  for  a  haircut.  Brooks  asked  her  if 
she  wanted  to  move  back  into  town  and 
she  replied,  'No!  Not  ever!' 

"Though  the  girls  both  love  the  farm," 
Eve  continues,  thoughtfully,  "the  boys  are 
a  little  too  young  to  know  there  ever  was 
a  difference.  Of  course,  Douglas  was  born 
in  the  year  and  a  half  since  we've  been 
here.  The  farm  has  been  grand  for  him, 
too.  He's  just  a  year  old,  yet  he  weighs 
only  two  pounds  less  than  Duncan,  who  is 
twice  his  ^ge!  He's  a  regular  little  Gar- 
gantua.  (As  Brooks  says,  'Why  not?  He 
eats  all  the  time!')  But  he's  a  happy  fel- 
low— you  have  to  be,  to  get  up  at  6:30 
A.M.  the  way  he  does.  And  he's  very 
active.  He  only  catnaps  about  thirty 
minutes  in  the  morning  and  thirty  minutes 
in  the  afternoon.  Duncan,  on  the  other 
hand,  sleeps  like  a  log  from  one  to  four 
every  afternoon — but  then  Dune  is  up 
running  full  tilt! 

"Doug  is  still  a  crawler,"  says  Mother 
Eve,  "but  he  crawls  crazily.  He  is  trying 
to  walk.  He'll  come  to  us  in  the  morning, 
standing  up  with  his  nurse,  Helen,  hold- 
ing his  hand.  He'll  start  running,  and 
Helen  has  to  walk  fast  to  keep  up  with 
him.  Doug  doesn't  want  to  walk,  he  wants 
to  run.  He  takes  two  or  three  steps,  then 
things  get  confused.  But,  before  he  falls, 
he  looks  down  at  his  feet  as  if  to  say,  'Hey! 
What  happened  down  there!' " 

And  Brooks  takes  up  the  story:  "Doug's 


trying  hard  to  learn  to  talk.  Of  course, 
we  think  we  recognize  the  words  he's 
trying  to  say.  The  Amsters'  daughter, 
Susie,  for  example,  stayed  with  us  dur- 
ing the  summer.  When  Susie  came  into 
Doug's  room,  he'd  look  up  and  say, 
'Shooee.'  When  you  give  him  a  new 
name — like  'Liza'  or  'Connie' — he'll  watch 
you  pronounce  it,  then  he'll  practice  saying 
it  over  and  over,  watching  you  all  the 
while.  He's  going  to  be  a  good  little 
student,  I  think,  for  he  has  great  powers 
of  concentration  and  tries  desperately  to 
form  the  words.  'Mama,'  of  course,  was 
his  first  successful  effort.  And,  when  he 
finally  got  his  first  'Dada'  out,  I  naturally 
told  everybody  to  be  quiet  so  he  could 
be  heard  all  over  the  house!" 

Eve  says,  "The  girls  adore  both  of  the 
boys.  They  think  it  is  kind  of  fabulous 
having  two  little  brothers  like  that.  Liza 
looks  after  them,  changes  their  clothes, 
takes  them  to  the  potty.  Connie,  too,  is 
a  natural  little  mother  and,  when  Doug 
first  came  home  from  the  hospital,  wanted 
to  start  taking  care  of  him  right  away. 
Liza,  on  the  other  hand,  gave  the  baby  a 
quick  look-over,  decided  he  was  very 
cute,  but  she  was  more  interested  in  the 
clinical  details.  She  wanted  to  know  all 
about  everything  that  happened  at  the 
hospital. 

"But,"  says  Eve,  "as  any  mother  of  four 
can  tell  you,  it's  not  always  serene.  Take 
the  matter  of  jealousy,  for  example.  I 
think  that  most  parents  are  aware  of 
jealousy  between  their  children  and  they 
try  to  protect  them  against  it  by  prepar- 
ing them,  first  off,  for  the  arrival  of  an- 
other child  in  the  house.  That's  what 
Brooks  and  I  did.  We  tried  to  plan  the 
arrival  by  telling  them  the  entire   story. 

"Then  came  the  day  when  I  thought 
everything  was  settled — but  I  relaxed  too 
soon.  Naturally,  the  baby  demands  a 
great  deal  of  attention,  and  one  day  Dun- 
can came  running  into  the  room  with  his 
little  face  just  alight  at  the  thought  of 
seeing  us.  Then  he  stopped  dead  in  his 
tracks  at  the  door.  I  was  puzzled  for  a 
moment  until  I  realized  this  was  the  first 
time  Dune  had  seen  me  holding  the  baby 
in  my  arms.  So  I  put  Doug  down  in  his 
bed,  patted  him  and  turned  to  Duncan — 
then  the  smile  returned  and  he  came  to 
me.  But  you  find  that  there  are  many 
repetitions  of  this  sort  of  thing  and  you 
can't  always  be   on  guard   every  minute. 

"That's  the  problem  Brooks  and  I  are 
fighting  right  now.  When  you  have  four, 
you  find  your  time  is  cut  up  so  small  that 
when  you  are  with  them  they  are  all 
vying  for  your  attention — you  are  either 
babying  two  at  once  or  turning  your  at- 
tention quickly  from  one  to  another. 

1  o  overcome  this,  we  had  to  develop  a 
plan  which  would  give  each  child  indi- 
vidual attention.  What  Brooks  and  I  did 
was  to  take  each  of  them  on  separate  little 
trips  where  they  were  'the  only  ones'  in 
Mother's  eye.  In  fact,  when  we  were 
shooting  at  Warner  Bros.,  we  took  them 
into  the  town  apartment  one  at  a  time  on 
the  slimmest  excuse — for  a  haircut,  a  new 
dress,  or  a  piano  lesson — and  lavished  love 
on  just  the  one  for  an  entire  day.  As  a 
plan  it  works  fine.  But  then  I  'talk  a 
great  game.'  We  are  all  just  full  of 
theories,  you  know. 

"We  are  both  very  concerned  right  now 
with  the  different  needs  of  the  children. 
Liza  is  rapidly  approaching  teen-age  and 
her  needs  will  be  different  from  Con- 
nie's— whose  needs,  in  turn,  will  be  differ- 
ent from  the  boys'.  To  solve  this  problem, 
we  are  trying  to  plan  our  lives  so  that 
we  can  spend  more  time  with  the  children. 
We  also  want  to  travel,  and  we  don't  feel 
this  is  incompatible,  because  we  intend  to 
taice  them  wherever  we  go.    I  will  not  go 


any  place  for  over  two  days  and  not  have 
them  with  me. 

"We  were,  for  example,  kind  of  miser- 
able during  the  last  couple  of  weeks  of 
our  1953  European  trip.  Now  we  would 
love  to  return  and  do  a  Uttle  more  lei- 
surely travel.  We  hope  to  headquarter  in 
Paris,  making  short  two-day  jaunts  from 
there,  taking  one  or  both  of  the  girls  with 
us.  Besides  this,  we  have  five  French 
foster  children,  and  we  are  looking  for- 
ward to  seeing  them.  So  it  looks  as  though 
there  is  going  to  be  some  more  travel  in 
the  future." 

Though  Eve  and  Brooks  are  still  plan- 
ning their  dreams  of  the  future  for  the 
children,  they  are  grateful  that  their  long- 
planned  dream  of  a  farm  was  realized.  To 
Eve,  the  farm  has  filled  a  special  need, 
for  she  has  wanted  just  such  a  place  ever 
since  her  childhood  days  in  Mill  Valley, 
CaUfomia.  "I  have  always  had  a  yen  for 
coimtry  life,"  she  says.  "I  still  remember 
when  I  ran  barefoot  as  a  kid  in  the  simi- 
mers.  We  hved  in  a  plain  wooden  frame 
house  in  town.  Even  then,  I  had  a  great 
many  pets,  but  I  never  got  over  the  fact 
that  I  didn't  have  a  lamb  or  baby  pig — as 
a  kid,  that's  what  I  yearned  for.  Don't 
ask  me  why.  Perhaps  it  was  because  they 
were  both  animals  that  I  didn't  have  any 
acquaintance  with  and  I  was  curious. 

"Now  I've  got  my  lamb — I  adopted  a 
httle  twin  lamb  that  the  mother  rejected. 
She  was  cute,  cuddly  and  wonderful.  We 
named  her  'Little  Orphan  Annie.'  At  first 
she  slept  by  my  bed  and  I  fed  her  dvuring 
the  night.  I  would  also  get  up  at  five  in 
the  morning  and  take  her  out  on  the  lawn 
in  front  of  the  house  and  stand  shivering 
waiting  for  her — then  we'd  both  go  back 
and  sleep  until  7:30  or  8.  It  has  proven 
imfortunate  for  both  of  us,  because  she 
now  refuses  to  acknowledge  that  she  is 
any  sort  of  sheep  whatsoever. 

"Then  she  began  eating  all  our  new 
growths — roses,  snapdragons,  zinnias,  dai- 
sies, all  the  country  flowers — and  Brooks 
decided  that  she  must  find  out  that  she 
was  a  sheep.  So  we  put  her  in  the  bam 
one  day.  She  was  absolutely  terrified. 
The  rest  of  the  sheep  would  have  nothing 
to  do  with  her.  Finally,  while  we  were 
away  in  New  York,  the  caretaker  put  her 
in  the  bam  at  night.  I  don't  think  I  coTild 
have  done  it." 

There  is  one  thing  Eve  hasn't  gotten 
yet  that  she's  dreamed  of,  ever  since 
childhood— a  Httle  pink  piglet.  Eve 
broached  this  subject  to  Brooks  the  aiter- 
noon  they  finished  her  Warner  Bros,  pic- 
ture and  returned  to  Westhaven.  Brooks 
said,  "Pigs!  Oh,  no!  We  have  sheep,  cows, 
chickens,  ducks — everything!  But  we 
don't  need  any  pigs.  Pigs  are  a  big  bore." 

"Look,"  Eve  said,  "we  have  everything 
else  on  this  farm  that  I  have  always 
dreamed  about — are  you  going  to  fmstrate 
me?" 

"No  pigs,"  said  Brooks. 

"Just  one  little  pink  piglet.  .  .  ." 

"No,  no  pigs.  They  don't  stay  pink  and 
they  don't  stay  httle  very  long." 

But,  when  Eve  looked  out  across  their 
farm,  she  saw  next  to  the  bam  an  empty 
pigpen,  and  she  got  that  "planning"  look 
in  her  eyes.  Brooks  recognized  that  look 
and  knew  another  "dream"  would  soon 
be  fulfilled. 

Above  the  red  bams  with  their  detailed 
hex  signs  so  lovingly  painted.  Eve  coixld 
see  the  Wests'  white  cottages,  simply  fur- 
nished with  her  beloved  antiques,  their 
children  happy  and  running  in  the  sun. 
The  soimds  of  the  jolly  turkeys'  gobbling 
drifted  down  to  her  ears,  and  the  little 
lamb  stiU  nuzzled  her  palm.  The  picture 
made  it  clear  to  Eve  that  you  have  to 
plan  your  dreams  in  detail  if  you  want 
them  to  come  true  .  .  .  and  then  they  do. 


OPPORTUNITIES 


FOR  EVERYBODY 


Publllher's  Clauiflxl  Department  (Trademark) 


For  dattiflad  advwriung  rat»s,  writ*  fo  William  R.  Sitwart,  9  Souffi  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Nov.-Woin,j  5 


MONEY-IMAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  Shed.  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid   Babbitt  $4165.00  in 
few  weeks.  Free  Book.  Washington   Mushroom   Ind.,  Dept. 
164,  2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle  6,  Wash. 
60%    PROFIT    COSMETICS.    $25   day    up.    Hire    others. 
Samples,    details.    Studio    Girl-Hollywood,    Glendale,  Calif. 
Dept.  P-1 15b. 

MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Wanted  Items  from  your  news- 
paper for  publishers.  Newscraft  Publishing  Company,  PW- 
983-E.  Mam,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

STUFFING-MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructrons  tell 
how.    Dept.    G-11,    Education    Publishers,    4043   St    Clair, 
Cleveland  3,  Ohia 

EARN  AT  HOME— we  help  you.  Free  details:   Maxwell, 
Dept.  3-10,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

OPERATE    PROFITABLE    MAIL    order    business.    Write 
Walter  Service,  4159-X  East  112th,  Cleveland  5,  Ohio. 

GIVEN  WITHOUT  1c  cost  to  your  Church  or  Group— new 
"boils-own-water"  48-cup  Electric  Coffee  Urn.  Just  have  10 
members  each  sell  only  five  bottles  famous  flavoring.  No 
money  needed,  ever.  Write  Anna  Elizabeth  Wade,  1937  Tyree 
Street,  Lynchburg,  Va. 

TO  GET  YOUR  name  on  our  mailing  list  we'll  send— Free — 
500  gummed  labels  printed  with  any  name  and  address.  Limit 
4  sets  each  customer.  Enclose   25c  postage-packing  per  set 
Western  Stationery,  Dept.  1270,  Tooeka,  Kansas. 
$5000  WON  FOR  child's  Picture.  Your  child's  photo,  too, 
may  be  worth  money  for  advertising.  Send  One  small  photo 
for  approval.  Print  child's  and  parents'  name  on  back.  Re- 
turned  with  free  details.  Spotlite,   5880-KPW   Hollywood, 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

FREE-BIG  NEW  Wholesale  Catalog!  Up  to  50%  saving  for 
you,  family,  friends  on  nationally-known  gifts,  jewelry,  toys, 
appliances,  Christmas  cards,  etc.  Also  make  money  selling 
part  time!  Writ*:  Evergreen  Studios,   Box  846-C,  Chicago 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORKI  IMMEDIATE  Commissions! 

42,  111. 

Everything  Furnished  1  Hirsch,  1301-CHoe,  New  York  City  59. 
$35    WEEKLY    PREPARING    envelopes.    Instructions    $1. 
Refundable.  Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 
EARN  SPARE  TIME  CASH  preparing  mail  for  advertisers. 
Temple  Co.,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.  Send   $1.00. 
Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

FEMALE  HELP  WAhfTED 

HOUSEWIVES— $80-$l  25  WEEKLY.   Our  style  shows  adult, 
children's   apparel    are    sensational    for    party    plan.    Isabel 
Sharrow  made  $258 — 11  days  sparetimel  Free  Outfit.  Samples 
Furnished.  Birginal  Fashions,  Bensenville  454,  HI. 
BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  UP  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous    Hollywood    Cosmetics,    your    neighborhood.    Free 
Samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  Dept.  P-115, 
Glendale,  Calif. 

BOTH    FREE!    VALUABLE    Gift,    "Wholesale    Purchasing 
Secrets."  Save  40-80%  top  brand  appliances,  watches,  gifts, 
1000's  items.  Panatron,  7721 P  Melrose,  Hollywood  46,  Calit 
BIG   DRESS  SALE— 20  Dresses  for  $3.50.  Assorted  Silk, 
Wool,  Cotton,  Rayon.  Send  $1.00  deposit  dress  size.  Mail- 
Mart,  199-P  Sackett,  Brooklyn  31,  New  York. 
DRESSES,  24c;  SHOES  39c;  men's  suits,  $4.95;  trousers, 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  catalog.  Transworld,  164-A 
Christopher.  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

CAN  YOU  EARN  $40  Weekly  sewing  lovely  Baby  Shoes  and 
Mailing  Displav  Folders?  Write:  Folders,  Warsaw  1,  Indiana. 
MAKE  SPARE  TIME  money  preparing  and  mailing  sales 
literature.  Adams  Surveys,  3513C  Sunset  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles 
26,  Calif. 

ENVELOPE  PREPARING— EXTRA  income  projects.  Bro- 
chure "$50  Weekly  Possible"— free.  Maxwell,  Dept  2-10, 
Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

MAKE  MONEY  INTRODUCING  World's  cutest  children's 
dresses.  Big  selection,  adorable  styles.  Low  prices.  Complete 
display  free.  Rush  name.  Harford,  Dept.  P-5359,  Cincinnati 
25,  Ohio. 

SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 
Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 
PROFITABLE  HOME  BUSINESS.  Make  Fast-Selling  che- 
nille monkey  trees.  Literature  free.  Velva,  Bohemia  32,  N.Y. 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED  1  Earn  extra  cash  making  readi- 
cut  ties,  experience  unnecessary.   No  selling.  We  instruct. 
Jud-San,  518  E.  105,  Dept.  K-1,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 

EARN  SPARE  TIME  Cash  mailing  advertising  literature. 
Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 
HOMEWORKI  GUARANTEED  PAY!  No  Selling.  Everything 
Furnished.  Wallace,  Box,  3,  Boston  22W,  Massachusetts. 
WHOLESALE  CATALOG— 25c.  Pictures  $75,000  Merchan- 
dise. Worldwide,  Box  12-Mll,  New  York  City  60. 

EARN  AT  HOME  with  assignment  we  send.  $20-$50  weekly 
possible.  Other  self  employment  offers  listed.  Free  details: 
Maxwell,  Dept.  1-10,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 
$2.00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 
home.   Experience  unnecessary.  Crown   Industries,   7159-B 
Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

WANT  TO  MAKE  Big  Money  at  Home?  $5  profit  in  an  hour 
possible  with  Invisible  Reweavina.  Make  tears,  holes  disap- 
pear from  clothing,  fabrics.  Steady  year-round  demand  from 
cleaners,  laundries,  homes.  Details  Free.  Fabricon,  8340-S 
Prairie,  Chicago  19,  111. 
GROW  EXPENSIVE  HERBS  for  us!   Big   Profits  Home- 

EARN   EXTRA   MONEY.   Our  instructions  tell   how.   A.   B. 
Dunbar,  Dept  Gil,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 
HOME  WORKERS.   MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 
pay.   Experience   unnecessary.   California   Handicrafts,    Los 
Angeles  46,  California. 

FASCINATING  PIECE  WORK  at  Homel  No  sellingi  We 
pay  youl  Truart,  Box  438,  Pasadena,  California. 

Business  of  your  own.  Year  around  profitunity!  We  supply 
everything  necessaryl  Send  for  Free  Rare  Seeds  and  Reveal- 
ing Plan.  National  Herb  Exchange,  Dept.  PW,  Gardena,  Calit 
WOMEN!  SEW  READY-Cut  Neckties  At  Home.  No  Experi- 
ence Necessary.  No  Selling.  No  Machine  Needed.  Details 
Free.  Neckwear  Supply,  P.O.  Box  2066-P,  Inglewood  4,  Calif. 
$200  WEEKLY  CLEANING  Venetian  Blinds.  Free  book. 
Burtt,  2434BR,  Wichita  13,  Kansas. 

ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOME  sewing  Baby  Shoes.  DeUils  3c. 
Thompson's,  Loganville  2,  Wisconsin. 

$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.    Easy.    Write,    Studio 
Company,  Greenville  7,  Penna. 

INSTRUCTION 

"HOW  TO  MAKE  Money  with  Simple  Cartoons"— A  book 
everyone  who  likes  to  draw  should  have.  It  is  free;  no  obliga- 
tion.  Simply   address   Cartoonists'    Exchange,    Dept   6811, 
Pleasant  Hill,  Ohio. 

BUY  WHOLESALE,  25,000  Items.  Catalog  25c.  Matthews, 
1472-K2  Broadway,  New  York  City  36. 
AGENTS  WANTED 

HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes.  Study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  Catalog  HCH-28,  Wayne 
School,  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 
MAKE  HATS  FOR  fun  and  profit  1  start  you  Free.  Lottie 
Johnson  Hats,  7052  Glenwood,  Chicago  26,  Illinois. 
"DANCING     SELFTAUGHT"— COMPLETE    book    $1.00. 
Greenview,  Box  61-HR,  Whitestone  57,  New  York. 

PERSONAL 

ADD  TO  FAMILY  Income.   Unlimited  earnings.  Work  In 
spare  time  demonstrating  household  plastics  and  toys.  No 
canvassing   or  experience   necessary.   Halliday,   2-16  State 
Highway  5,  Dept  B,  Palisades  Park,  New  Jersey. 
SHINE  CARS  WITHOUT  "Polish."  New  invention.  Light- 
ning seller.  Cars  gleam  like  mirror.  Samples  sent  on  trial. 
Kristee  148,  Akron,  Ohio. 

CALIFORNIA  SWEET  SMELLING  Beads.  Sensational 
sellers.  Free  Particulars.  Mission,  2328AA  West  Pico,  Los 
Angeles  6,  California. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men 
and  women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.   No  en- 
dorsers. Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details  free 
in  plain  envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co.,  323 
Securities  Bldg.,  Dept  L-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 
ECZEMA  RASH?  DISCOURAGED?  Moz-e  brings  results! 
Trial  Offer.  Write  to:  Moz-e,  1644-C  Compton,  Cleveland  18, 
Ohio. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS:  HOPELESS?  New  Discovery!  Free 
Trial  Offer.  Write  Pixacol,  Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
1  nformation  booklet  free.  American  School,  Dept  X874,  Drexel 
at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers.  Ap- 
proved materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W,  Sta- 
tion E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

BORROW  UP  TO  $600  by  Mail.  Employed  men  and  women 
can  borrow  $50  to  $600  from  privacy  of  home.  Speedy,  easy 
and  entirely  confidential.  No  signers.  No  fees.  No  deductions. 
Money  Request  form  sent  Free  in  plain  envelope.  State  age, 
occupation   and   amount  wanted.    Postal   Finance  Co.,   200 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 
possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot  Gallipolis  19,  Ohio. 
FULL,  PART  TIME  projects  available.  Write:  Adco,  561, 
Bastrop,  Louisiana. 

HEALTH  A  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

Keeline  Bldg.,  Dept  91 X,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

LAND    BARGAINS 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,   Colon-Stomach,  associated 

conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  &  Minor 
Hospital,  Suite  C-1113,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 

TEXAS  HOMESITE  $5.00  Down!  Full  price  $89.50  on  easy 
terms.  Big  5000  square  foot  homesite  at  Bandera,  Texas 
Heart  of  "Dude  Ranch  Country".  Electricity,  telephone. 
1300  feet  above  sea  level.  Warm  days  and  cool  summer  nights 
make  vacation  paradise  Hunting,  fishing,  golfing,  swimming, 
horseback  riding.  Write  for  Free  photographs  and  details. 
Bandera  Pass  Ranch,  Dept.  200D,  Bandera,  Texas. 

SALESWOMEN  WANTED 

FOREIGN  &  U.S.A.  JOB  LISTINGS 

HIGH  PAYING  JOBS.  All  Types.  Foreign,  US.  Chance  to 
Travel.   Fare   Paid.   Application   Forms.   Free   Information. 
Write  Dept  73K,  National,  1020  Broad,  Newark,  New  Jersey. 

DO-IT-YOURSELF 

LEARN  ART  METALCRAFT  and  jewelry  making.  Complete, 
inexpensive,    home  training   course   now  available.   Special 
tools  and  materials  furnished.  Write  for  free  booklet  Inter- 
state Training  Service,  Dept.  L-72,  Portland  13,  Oregon. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

ANYONE  CAN  SELL  famous  Hoover  Uniforms  for  beauty 
shops,  waitresses,  nurses,  doctors,  others.  All  popular  miracle 
fabrics— nylon,  dacron,  orlon.  Exclusive  styles,  top  quality. 
Big  cash  income  now,  real  future.  Equipment  tree.  Hoover. 
Dept.  W-1 1 9,  New  York  1 1 ,  New  York. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 

Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp,  Dept  WP-19,  Chi- 
cago 32,  Idinois. 

FREE  BOOK  ON  Arthritis,  Rheumatism  explains  specialized 
system  on  non-surgical,  non-medical  treatment  Write  Ball 

MAIL  ORDER  CATALOGS 

Clinic,  Dept  750,  Excelsior  Springs,  Missouri. 

STAMP  COLLECTING 

MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog   (Plain   Envelope); 

fashions  by  famous  designers;  $2.98  to  $22.98.  Crawford's, 
Dept  141,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

FIRST  U.N.  SET.  Among  World's  Prettiest  Only  10c.  Ap- 
provals. Welles,  Box  1246-PX,  New  York  City  8. 

WORK  AT  HOME 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
cataloflue  25c.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-EY,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 

GOOD  PAY,  MAKING  scented  Orchids.  Experience  un- 
necessary. Boycan  Industries,  Palm  Springs  211,  California. 

71 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Daylight  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning  Programs 

8-30  Local  Program 

8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


10:45 


11:00 

11:15 
11:30 
11:45 


Mary  Margaret 

McBride 
10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peale 
One  Man's  Family 
Second  Chance 

10:55  News 


Strike  It  Rich 


Phrase  That  Pays 
Fibber  McGee  & 
Molly 


John  MacVane 


Robert  Hurleigh 
Easy  Does  It 
News,  Cecil  Brown 
9:35  Easy  Does  It 
(con.) 


Cecil  Brown 


Guest  Time* 
News 

10:35  Johnny 
Olsen  Show 


Story  Time 

11:25  Holland  Engle 
Queen  For  A  Day 

*Wed.,    Faith    In 
Our  Time 


Breakfast  Club 


My  True  Story 


10:25  Whispering 
Streets 

When  A  Girl  Marries 


Companion— 

Dr.  Mace 
Paging  The  New 
Albert  Warner,  News 
Your  Neighbor's 

Voice 


News  Of  America 


Arthur  Godfrey  Time 


Arthur  Godfrey 
(con.) 

Make  Up  Your  Mind 
Howard  Miller  Show 


Afte 

12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

rnoon    Progr 

ams 

Noon  News 
12:05    Here's 
Hollywood 

Valentino 
Frank  Farrell 

Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Backstage  Wife 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

Pauline  Frederick 

News,  Cedric  Foster 
Luncheon  At  Sardi's 
Letter  To  Lee 
Graham 

Paul  Harvey,  News 
Ted  Malone 

Road  Of  Life 
Ma  Perkins 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 

2:00 
2:15 

2:30 
2.45 

Luncheon  With  Lopez 
2:25  News,  Sam 

Hayes 
America's  Front 

Door 

Martin  Block 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 
Perry  Mason 

This  Is  Nora  Drake 
The  Brighter  Day 

3:00 
3:15 
3:30 
3:45 

News 

3:05  Wonderful  City 
Hotel  For  Pets 
Just  Plain  Bill 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Martin  Block  (con.) 

Linkletter's  House 

Party 
Fred  Robbins  Show 

4:00 
4:15 
4:30 
4:45 

Right  To  Happiness 
Stella  Dallas 
Young  Widder  Brown 
Pepper  Young's 
Family 

Bruce  &  Dan 

Broadway   Matinee 

Treasury  Band- 
stand 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Woman  In  My  House 
Lorenzo  Jones 
Lone  Ranger 
5:55  Dan'l  Boone 

Sgt.  Preston 

Wagon  Train 
America's  Business 
5:50  Wismer,  Sports 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Musical  Express 
Bobby  Hammack 
Gloria  Parker 
Vincent  Lopez 

T 
V 
R 

72 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 

9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9;45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Monday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening  Programs 


Alex  Dreier,  Man 

On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One   Man's    Family 


Your  Land  And  Mine 


Boston  Symphony 
Orchestra 


Telephone  Hour 


Band  Of  America 


Fibber  McGee  & 
Molly 


Local  Program 


ABC  Reporter 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Fulton  Lewis 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Jr. 


Top  Secret  Files 
Broadway  Cop 


News,  Lyie  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Reporters'  Roundup 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Orchestra 
Distinguished  Artists 


Vandercook,  News 

Quincy  Howe 

Strange 

Saga 

7:55  News 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Voice  Of  Firestone 


Music  Tent 


9:25  News 
Assignment  Ten 

9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Martha  Lou  Harp 


Jackson  a  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer 
Of  Lost  Persons 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Arthur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts 


Rosemary  Clooney 


Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Tuesday 


6:00 
6:15 

6:30 
6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 

7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 


NBC 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


Biographies 
Sound 


9:55  News 


In 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Heart  Of  The  News 
New  England  Survey 


Evening   Programs 

MBS  ABC 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Jr. 


Fulton  Lewis, 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Treasury  Agent 


John  Steele, 
Adventurer 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05   Footnotes  To 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Army  Hour 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Men's  Corner 
Dance  Music 


CBS 

Jackson  &  The  News 

Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25   News 
Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye  Show 
9:25  E.  D.  Canham, 
News 

Platterbrains 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Take  Thirty 


Suspense 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Rabbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 


Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


$64,000  Question 


Wednesday 


Evening    Programs 


7:00 
7:15 
7:3" 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 

8:45 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 

9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex   Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Conversation 


College  Quiz  Bowl| 
8:55  News 


You  Bet  Your  Life 
— Groucho  Marx 

Truth  Or 
Consequences 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 


8:15 
8:30 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 

9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:30 

6:45 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
Heart  Of  The  News 
Keys  To  The  Capital 


Thursday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


True  Detective 
Sentenced 


News,  LyIe  Van 
Spotlight  Story 
Family  Theater 


Virgil   Pinkley 
Sounding  Board 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye  Show 
9:25  News 
President's  News 
Conference 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Relaxin'  Time 


FBI  In  Peace  And 

War 
8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 

Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 

Bing  Crosby 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


Dr.  Six  Gun 


American   Adventure 


9:05  X  Minus  One 


Ted  Heath  Orch. 
9:55  News 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Joseph  C.  Harsch 
Jane  Pickens  Show 


Friday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis.  Ir 
Behind  The  Iron 

Cunain 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official  Detective 
Brady  Kaye 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Virgil   Pinkley 

Book  Hunter 
Henry  Jerome  Orch. 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Newsmakers 
Presidential  Report 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Strange 
Saga 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 
Ernie 

Edward  R.  Murrow 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye  Show 


9:25  News 
Rhythm  On  Parade 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Front  &  Center 


The  Whistler 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 


Bing  Crosby      ' 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 

8:15 
8:30 
8:45 


9:00 

9:15 
9.30 

9:45 


10:00 


10:15 
10:30 


Alex    Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


National   Radio 
Fan  Club 


Radio  Fan  Club 
(con.) 


9:55  News 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
Joseph  C.  Harsch 
Stars  In  Action 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Counter-Spy 
City  Editor 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05    Footnotes 

History 
Football  from 

Orange  Bowl 


To 


Virgil  Pinkley 

Forbes   Report 

London  Studios 

Melodies 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Jackson  &  The  Newsi 
Lowell   Thomas 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Strange 
Saga 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Red  Benson's 

Hideaway 
8:25  News 
Hideaway  (con.) 
8:55  News 


Sammy  Kaye  Show 


A  Treasury  Of  Music 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Indoors  Unlimited 


Godfrey  Digest 

8:25  Doug  Edwards 
Disk  Derby, 
Fred  Robbins 


Disk  Derby  (con.) 

Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Musii 
Hall 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


I 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


HBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning  Progra 

8:30  World   News 
8:45       Roundup 

ms 

Local  Program 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
8:35  Doug  Browning 
Show 

News 

9:00  Farming  Business 

9:15 

9:30  Monitor 

9:45 

No  School 
Today 

News  Of  America 
Farm  News 

Garden  Gate 

10:00  Monitor 
10:15 
10:30 
10:45 

American  Travel 
Guide 

No  School 

Today  (con.) 
Breakfast  Club 

Review 
10:55  News 

News 

10:05  Galen  Drake 

Show 
10:55  News, 

LeSueur 

11:00 

11:15 
11:30 
11:45 

Monitor 

Lucky  Pierre 

Johnny  Desmond 

Show 
11:55  Young  Living 

News 

11:05  Half-Pint 

Panel 
Van  Voorhis,  News 
11:35  All  League 

Clubhouse 

Robert  B.  Lewis 
Show 

Afternoon  Programs 


12:00  National   Farm 
Home  Hour 
12:15  I 

12:30  'Monitor 
12:45' 


II  Asked  You 

! 

Tex  Fletcher 
Wagon  Show 


1:00  Monitor 

1:15 

1:30 

1:45 


Football— Game  of 
the  Week  from 
Notre   Dame 


;News  I  Noon  News 

12:05  How  To  Fix  It  12:05  Romance 
101    Ranch   Boys       1 
Van  Voorhis,  News    Gunsmoke 
12:35  American 
Farmer 


Football 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
1:35   Football   (con.) 


2:00  Monitor 

2:15 

2:30 

2:45 

3:00 

Monitor 

3:15 

3:30 

3:45 

Football  Roundup 


Football  (con.) 


Football  (con.) 


Football  (con.) 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
2:35  Football  (con.) 


Football  (con.) 


Football   (con.) 


Football  (con.) 


4:00  Monitor 
4:15  j 
4:30 
4:45 


Football  (con.) 


Football  (con.) 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
l4:35   Football 


Football   (con.) 


5:00  Monitor 

Teenagers,   U.S.A. 

5:15 
5:30 

5:45 

5:55  News 

Evening  Programs 

6:00  Monitor  John  T.  Flynn 


6:15 
6:30 


6:45 


World  Traveler 
Report  From 

Washington 
Basil  Heatter 


News  Adventures  In 

5:05  Dinner  At  The;     Science 

Green  Room  Richard  Hayes 

Van  Voorhis,  News    News,  Jackson 

5:35  Saturday  At 
1     The  Chase 


News  {News 

6:05  Pan-American    i 

Union  Sports  Review 

Sports  Kaleidoscope  jCapitot  Cloakroom 


Bob  Edge,  Sports 
Afield 


6:55  Joe  Foss,  Sports 


7:00 

Monitor 

Pop  The  Ouestion 

News 

News,  Jackson 

7:15 

7:05  At  Ease 

7:30 

Magic  Of  Music, 

Labor-Management 

7:45 

Doris   Day 

Series 

8:00  Monitor 

Musical  Wheel  Of 

News 

21st  Precinct 

8:15 

Charm 

8:05  Dance  Party 

8:30 

Quaker  City  Capers 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

Disk  Derby, 

8:45 

8:35   Dance  Party 
(con.) 

Fred  Robbins 

9:00  Monitor 

Hawaii  Calls 

News 

Two  For  The  Money 

9:15; 

1 

9:05  Dance  Party 
(con.) 

9:30, 

Lombardo  Land 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

Country  Style 

9:451 

1 

9:35  Dance  Party 
(con.) 

9:55  News,  Jackson 

10:00  Monitor 

CBC  Symphony 

News 

Country  Style  (con.) 

10:15 

Orch. 

10:05  Hotel  Edison 

10:30  Grand  Ole  Opry 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

Your  Hit  Parade 

10:35  Lawrence  Welk 

Sunday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Morning  Programs 


8:30 

Monitor 

Light  And  Life  Hour  Renfro  Valley 

8:45 

8:55  Galen  Drake 

9:00 

World   News 

Wings  Of  Healing 

News                         World  News  Roundup 

9:15 

Roundup 

9:05  Great  Moments  Sidney  Walton  Show 

Of  Great  Composers 

9:25  Van  Voorhis, 

News 

9:30 

Back  To  God 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 

Organ  Music, 
E.  Power  Biggs 

9:45 

Art  Of  Living 

9:55  News,  Trout 

10:00 

National  Radio 

Radio  Bible  Class 

News 

Church  Of  The  Air 

10:15 

Pulpit 

10:05  Message  Of 
Israel 

10:30 

Monitor 

Voice  Of  Prophecy 

News 

Church  Of  The  Air 

10:45 

10:35  College  Choir 

(con.) 

11:00 

Monitor 

Frank  And  Ernest 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
11:05   Sunday 
Melodies 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 

11:15 

. 

Christian  Science 
Monitor 

Marines   On 
Review 

11:30 

11:35  New  World 

Northwestern 

News 

Invitation  To 

Reviewing  Stand 

11:35  Christian  In 

Learning-"The 

11:45 

Action 

Out-Of-Doors" 

Afternoon  Programs 


12:00 

Monitor 

Marine  Band 

News,  LeSueur 

12:15 

12:05  The  Leading 
Question 

12:30 

The  Eternal  Light 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 
ham 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
12:35   The   World 

World  Affairs 

12:45 

Merry  Mailman 

Tomorrow 

Washington  Week 

1:00 

Monitor 

Basil  Heatter, 
News 

Herald  Of  Truth 

Woolworth  Hour- 
Percy   Faith, 

1:15 

Christian  Science 

Donald   Woods 

1:30 

Lutheran  Hour 

News 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

2:00 

The  Catholic  Hour 

Professional  Football 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 

News 

2:15 

2:05  Kathy  Godfrey 

2:30 

Wings  Of  Healing 

New  York  Philhar- 

2:45 

monic-Symphony 

3:00 

Monitor 

Professional  Football 
(con.) 

News 

3:05  Pan  American 

Symphony  (con.) 

3:15 

Union 

3:30 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

3:45 

3:35   Billy   Graham 

3:55  News 

4:00 

Monitor 

Salute  To  The  Nation 

Old-Fashioned 

Rhythm  On  The 

4:15 

Revival  Hour 

Road 

4:30 

Nick  Carter 

4:45 

4:55  Lome  Greene 

5:00 

Monitor 

Adventures  Of  Rin 

News 

News 

5:15 

Tin  Tin 

5:05  Church  In  The 

Home 
5:25  Van  Voorhis, 

News 

5:05  On  A  Sunday 
Afternodn 

5:30 

Wild  Bill  Hickok 

Greatest  Story  Ever 

5:45 

5:55  News 

Told 

5:55  News 

Evening    Programs 

6:00  Meet  The  Press 

Walter  Winchell 

Monday  Morning 

Gene  Autry 

Headlines 

6.15 

On  The  Line,  Bob 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

6:30 

Monitor 

Considine 

6:35  Evening  Comes 

6:45 

All  Star  Sport  Time 

7:00 

Monitor 

Richard  Hayes  Show 

News 

7:05  Showtime 
Revue 

News 

7:05   Edgar  Bergen 
Show 

7:15 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

7:30 

7:35  Valentino 

7:45 

Travel  Talk 

8:00 

Monitor 

West  Point  Band 

American  Town 

Our  Miss  Brooks 

8:15 

Meeting 

8:30 

Enchanted  Hour 

Gary  Crosby 

8:45 

9:00 

Monitor 

John   Randolph 

News,  Paul  Harvey 

Music   Hall, 
Mitch  Miller 

Hearst 

9:15 

Success  Story 

News,    Erwin    D. 
Canham 

9:30 

Manion  Forum 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
9:35  Sammy  Kaye 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 

9:55  News 

10:00 

Monitor 

Billy  Graham 

Overseas 
Assignment 

N°ws,  Schorr 
10:05  Face  The  Na- 

10:15 Joseph  C.  Harsch 

tion 

10:30 

lAmerican  Forum 

Global  Frontiers 

Revival  Time 

John  Derr,  Sports 

See   Biext   Page- 


T 
V 
R 

73 


XV  program  highlights 

NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  OCTOBER  9— NOVEMBER  9 


Monday  through  Friday 


7:00  O  &  m  Today-Getaway  with   Garroway 
9:00  0  Skinner  Show— Relaxed  &  musical 

O  Todd  Russell's  Corner— Cozy 
9:30  O  Morning   Matinee— Feature  films 
10:00  0  Garry  Moore— Moore  fun 

O  &  [i]  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nursery 
10:30  0  Godfrey  Gang- Artfully  yours 
11:00  O  Home— Arlene  Francis,  f emcee 

Q  Romper  Room— TV  kindergarten 
11:30  0  &  [s]  Strike   It  Rich— Quiz  for  needy 

Q  Wendy  Barrie— Vivacious 
12:00  0  Valiant  Lady— Daytime  serial 

O  &  H]  Tennessee  Ernie— Cheerful 
12:15  0  &  H]  Love  Of  Life— Serial  story 
12:30  0  &  [s]  Search   For  Tomorrow— Serial 
O  Feather  Your  Nest— $$$  Quiz 
0  Entertainment— Variety,   Tom    Poston 
12:45  0  (&  [i]  at  2:30)  The  Guiding  Light 
0  Dr.  Norman  Vincent  Peale 
1:00  0  Jack  Paar  Show— Smart  &  amusing 

O  Herb  Sheldon— Lives  it  up 
1:30  0  &  [s]  Welcome  Travelers— From  NY 

O  Gene  Rayburn— Lives  it  down 
2:00  0  &  [§]  Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show— Fun! 
0  Maggi   McNellis— Maggi's  gal  talk 
2:30  0  Linkletter's    House    Party— Delight- 
ful and  dynamic 

O  Jinx  Falkenburg — Interviews 
0  Ern  Westmore — Female  renovating 
3:00  0  &  m  Big  Pay-Off— Mink-lined  quiz 
O  NBC  Matinee  Theater— Superb 
O  Ted  Steele  Show— Rhythm  &  relaxin' 
3:30  0  Bob  Crosby— Cheerful  &  tuneful 
0  Joe  Franklin's  Memory  Lane 
4:00  0  The    Brighter    Day— Daytime    drama 

O  &  m  Way  Of  The  World-Serial 
4:15  0  &  H]  Secret  Storm— Daily  story 

O  First  Love— The  young  years 
4:30  0  &  [s]  On  Your  Account— $$$  Quiz 
O  Mr.  Sweeney— Chuckles  with  Ruggles 

EARLY   EVENING 

5:00  O  Pinky  Lee— Keeps  kids  occupied 

0  Mickey  Mouse  Club— A  Disney  de- 
light for  the  kiddies 

5:30  O  &  [s]  Howdy  Doody— Children's  time 

6:00  0  News  &  Weather 

6:30  O  Sky's  The  Limit-Quiz— M,  V/,   F; 
Patti  Page  Sings— T,  Th. 

(P  Liberace — Handsome  virtuoso 

7:00  O  Kukia,  Fran  &  OIlie— Fantasy 

7:30  O  &  U]  Eddie  Fisher— M,  W,  F;  Dinah 
Shore-T,  Th. 

O  Million  Dollar  Movies— Oct.  10-16, 
"Algiers,"  Charles  Boyer,  Hedy  Lamarr;  Oct. 
17-23,  "Bells  of  St.  Trinians,"  Alastair  Sims; 
Oct.  24-30,  "Chicago  Calling,"  Don  Duryea, 
Mary  Anderson;  Oct.  31-Nov.  6,  "Captain's 
Paradise,"  Alec  Guinness,  Yvonne  DeCarlo; 
Nov.  7,  "Along  Came  Jones,"  Gary  Cooper, 
Loretta  Young 

7:45  O  &  [5]  News  Caravan 

LATE  NIGHT 

10:00  O  Million  Dollar  Movies-Repeat  of 

7:30    P.M.    schedule.    See    above 
10:45  0  News  &  Weather 
11:00  0    O    0  News  &  Weather 

(D  Liberace— Candlelight  concert 
11:10  0  Featurama— Short  films 
11:15   0  Late  Show— Feature  films 

O  Steve  Allen— The  joint's  jumpln' 


74 


Monday  P.M. 


7:30  0  Robin  Hood— An  outlaw's  adventures 
0  Life  With  Elizabeth— Howlarious 


8:00  0  Burns  &  Allen— Gracie  burns  Georgie 
O  &  [s]    Caesar    Presents;     Oct.     17, 
Producer's  Showcase 

0  Digest  Drama— True  stories 
8:30  0  Godfrey's    Talent   Scouts— Variety 

0  Voice  Of  Firestone— Longhair  recital 
9:00  0  &  [|]  I  Love  Lucy— New  series 

O  The   Medic— Scalpel-sharp   drama 
9:30  0  &  [U  December   Bride— April-bright 
comedy 

O  Robert  Montgomery   Presents 
0  For  Doctors  Only— Live  from  hospitals 
10:00  0  &  [U  Studio   One— Hour  dramas 

0  Eddie  Cantor  Show— Belly  laughs 
10:30  O  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  as  Steve 


Tuesday 


7:30  0  Name   That  Tune— $$$   Quiz 
0  Waterfront— About    a    tugboat 
captain,  starring  Preston  Foster 

0  Warner  Brothers  Presents— Films 
8:00  0  Navy   Log— Exciting   documentaries 
O  &  m  Milton  Berle  Show,  Oct.  1 1  & 
Nov.    1;   Martha    Raye  Show,  Oct.    18   & 
Nov.  8;  Bob  Hope  Show,  Oct.  25 
0  Star  Playhouse— Hollywood  films 
8:30  0  You'll  Never  Get  Rich— Phil  Silvers 
0  Wyatt   Earp— Frontier   marshal   in 
action 
9:00  0  &  [H  Joe  &  Mabel-A  hack's 
misadventures 

O  Fireside  Theater— With  Jane  Wyman 
0  Make  Room  For  Daddy— Uproarious 
9:30  O  Pontiac    &   Circle   Theaters- 
Alternating    hour  dramas 

0  DuPont  Cavalcade  Theater— Stories 
10:00  0  $64,000  Question— Exciting  quiz 
0    Name's   The   Same— Guess  who? 


Wednesday 


7:30  0  Disneyland— Brand    new   series 
8:00  0  &  [i]  Godfrey  &  Friends— Family  fare 

O  Screen    Directors'    Guild— Drama 
8:30  O  (&  [U  at  9:30)  Father  Knows  Best 
— Guffaws 

0  M-G-M  Parade— Half-hour  films 
9:00  0  &  [i]  The  Millionaire— $tories 

O  Kraft  Theater— Excellent  teleplays 
0  Masquerade    Party— Costume   quiz 
9:30  0  I've  Got  A  Secret— Moore's  mum 
0  Penny  To  A  Million— $$$  Quiz 
10:00  0  &  m   U.S.   Steel   Theater— Front 
Row   Center— Alternating   full-hour   dramas 
O  This  is  Your  Life— Surprise  bios 
10:30  O  Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 


Thursday 


7:30  0  The  Goldbergs— Warmhearted 

humor 
8:00  0  Bob    Cummings    Show— Fine   farce 
O  &  m  Groucho  Marx— Wit's  end 
O  Bishop  Fulton  J.  Sheen— Talks 
8:30  0  Climax— Melodrama;  Nov  3,  Shower 
Of  Stars— A  musical 

Q  People's    Choice— New    comedy    on 
politics  starring  Jackie   Cooper 

0  Stop  The  Music— Bert  Parks  as  Santa 
9:00  O  &  [i]   Dragnet— Jack  Webb   stars 

©  Wrestling— Live  from  WABD's  studios 
0  Star  Tonight— Filmed  teleplays 
9:30  0  Four  Star  Playhouse— On  film 

O  &  [s]    Ford    Theater— Good    story- 
telling 
10:00  O  &  m   Lux   Video   Theater- 
Recommended 
10:30  0  Halls  Of  Ivy-The  Ronald  Coimans 


Friday 


7:30  0  My  Friend  Flicka— Horse  story 

0  Life  With  Elizabeth— A  crazy  gal 
0  Rin  Tin  Tin— Canine  Capers 

8:00  Q  &\s}   Mama— Peggy  Wood   charms 
O  Truth  Or  Consequences— Lively 
0  Ozzie  &  Harriet— A  joy! 

8:30  0  Our  Miss   Brooks— Babbling, 
bubbling   Brooks 

O  &  [|]  Life  of  Riley— Bill  Bendix  stars 

9:00  0  The    Crusader— A    new   series   about 
Communist  spies 

O  &  [U  Big  Story— Headline  makers 
0  Dollar  A  Second— $$$  Quiz 

9:30  0  Schlitz  Playhouse— Filmed  Stories 
O  &  S  star  Stage— Half-hour  dramas 
0.  The   Vise — English    hair-raisers 
10:00  0  The  Line-Up— Real-life  police  yarns 
0  Alec  Templeton— Piano  talks 
0  Dov^n  You  Go— Panel  panic 
10:30  0  Person  To  Person— Murrow  calls 


Saturday 


1:00-2:00  0  Football— Oct.  8,  Holy  Cross 
vs.  Colgate;  Oct.  22,  Harvard  vs.  Dartmouth; 
Nov.  5,  Syracuse  vs.  Penn  State 

O  Football— Oct.  8,  Villanova  vs.  Boston 
College;  Oct.  22,  Princeton  vs.  Cornell;  Nov. 
5,  Notre  Dame  vs.  Pennsylvania 
6:30  0  The  Lucy  Show— Re-runs 
7:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Stunts  for  prizes 
O  The  Big  Surprise— $100,000  quiz! 
8:00  0  &  U]  Stage     Show— The     Dorseys    & 
June   Taylor   Dancers   plus   name  guest  stars 
O  Perry  Como  Show— Hour  of  Variety 
8:30  0  &  [U  The    Honeymooners— Jackie 

Gleason,  Art  Carney,  Audrey  Meadows 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— $hriner's 
Quiz 

O  &  S   People   Are   Funny- Art  Link- 
letter;  Oct.  29,  9-10:30,  Liebman  Presents 
0  Lawrence  Welk— Champagne  music 
9:30  0  It's    Always   Jan— Janis    Paige    stars 
O  &  [s]  Jimmy  Durante  Show— Fun 
10:00  0  Gunsmoke— Rugged   westerns 

O  &  S  George  Gobel— Gobs  of  gags 
10:30  0  Damon   Runyon  Theater— Stories 
O  &  U]  Your  Hit  Parade— Great  stuff 


Sunday 


5:00  0  Omnibus— 90-minute   inspiration 
6:30  0  You  Are  There— Expert  documentary 
7:00  0  Lassie— Four-legged    adventure 

O  &1J]  it's  A  Great  Life— Great  show 
0  You  Asked  For  it— Art  Baker 
7:30  0  &  [U  Jack    Benny— Alternating    with 
Private  Secretary;  Jock, Oct. 9,23  &  Nov.6 
Q  Frontier— Pistol-pockin'  stories.  Oct.  9 
only:  Spectacular— "Show  Biz," Milton  Berle 
0  Famous     Film     Festival— Grade     A 
movies  premiere  on  TV:  Allyn  Edwards,  host 
8:00  0  &  m   Toast   Of   The   Town— Variety 

O  Sunday  Hour— Comedy  &  variety 
8:30  (D  Dangerous  Encounter- Adventures 
9:00  0  G-E    Theater— Ronald    Reagan,    host 
O  &  S  TV  Playhouse— Hour  teleplays 
0  Chance  Of  A  lifetime— Variety 
9:30  0  Appointment  With  Adventure 
0  Life  Begins  At  80— Goes  like  60 
10:00  0  Alfred  Hitchock  Presents— Suspense 
0  &  [|]  Loretta  Young  Show— Stories 
0  Mr.  &  Mrs.  North— Whodunits 
0  Break  The  Bank— Bert  Parks,  quiz 
10:30  0  &[8]  What's    My    Line?-Job    game 
O  See   Hollywood   With   Louella 
Parsons— Gossip  and  interviews 
0  China  Smith— Dan  Duryea 


Laughter  in  the  Stars 

(Continued  jrora  page  65) 
suppose,  is  something  for  which  they  would 
be  grateful.    And  glad.  .  .  .  Some  may  be. 
But   one,   John   Clemens   Gleason,   is   not. 

"How  can  you  be  glad  you  were  poor," 
Jackie  points  out,  "when  being  poor  in- 
volves the  hardships  and  heartaches  of 
others — of  your  mother,  for  instance?" 

Jackie  is  known  to  the  trade  as  "a  physi- 
cal comic."  Meaning  that,  unlike  Bob 
Hope  (who  gets  his  laughs  by  cracking 
wise  and  witty) — or  Jack  Benny  (who 
convulses  the  customers  by  talking,  dead- 
pan, about  his  stinginess)  ^Tackle's  laugh- 
getters  are,  for  the  most  part,  bodily  an- 
tics. Mops  in  the  face.  "Pain-bits"  (a 
finger  caught  in  a  folding  chair,  the  "der- 
riere"  in  a  revolving  door) .  And  props. 
Gongs  .  .  .  sirens  .  .  .  ticklers  .  .  .  outlandish 
clothing. 

"Jackie's  not  a  joke-man,"  an  associate 
says  of  him,  "it's  what  he  does  and  the 
way  he  looks.    He  thinks  funny." 

For  his  television  show,  and  on  his  tele- 
vision show,  Jackie  does  "think  funny,''' 
as  no  one  need  be  told.  .  .  .  But,  off- 
mike,  I  doubt  it. 

"Actually,  Gleason  is  not  a  comedian  at 
all,"  says  George  Burns,  long-suffering 
husband  of  that  delicious  dimwit,  Gracie, 
"but  a  great  actor.  Such  a  great  actor 
that  he  gets  away  with  being  a  comedian. 
So  good  he  makes  everyone  who  appeal's 
with  him  look  good." 

In  most  comedians  there  lurks  something 
of  "the  Melancholy  Dane."  In  a  month  of 
Sundays,  you  couldn't  meet  such  a  sober- 
sides as  Jack  Benny,  in  person.  Or  a  shyer 
man,  ofT-mike,  than  Danny  Kaye.  Or  Sid 
Caesar.  And  in  most  of  the  boys  who 
clown  for  their  paychecks  there  is  the 
suppressed  desire  to  play  "Hamlet."  Jackie 
may  be  dreaming  that  same  dream.  If  he 
is,  I'll  lay  odds  that  the  dream  will  one 
day  come  true. 

Not  that  there  is  in  Gleason,  the  self- 
styled  "Greatest,"  any  visible  trace  of 
melancholy.  Nor  is  any  mention  made  of 
wanting  to  invade  the  dray-ma,  let  alone 
the  role  of  "Hamlet."  You  hear  it  said 
that  Jackie's  robust  body  houses  a  break- 
ing heart.   If  so,  the  fracture  doesn't  show. 

Gleason  is,  however,  a  serious-minded, 
quiet-spoken  gentleman  ...  as  you  find 
out,  to  your  surprise,  when  you  sit  down 
and  talk  with  him  at  home.  He  is  thought- 
ful about  what  he  says,  with  never  a  gag 
or  a  comical  gesture  out  of  him. 

He  is  also  appreciably  handsomer,  by 
the  way,  than  the  TV  cameras  show  him 
to  be.  His  skin  is  tanned  and  healthy.  His 
eyes  are  dark,  very  dark  blue.  His  hair 
and  brows  are  near-black.  Though  he  is 
far  from  being  slim,  his  smooth,  fine  tailor- 
ing, immaculate  barbering  and  good  car- 
riage— plus  the  fact  that  the  camera  always 
enlarges — make  him  appear  considerably 
trimmer  in  person  than  he  does  on  screen. 

Whatever  his  mental  processes  may  be — 
either  on  camera  or  in  his  lush  and  lavish 
six-room  duplex  apartment  on  New  York's 
Fifth  Avenue — he  isn't  "thinking  funny" 
when  the  question  is  put  to  him:  "Are 
you  glad  you  were  poor?" 

"People  who  extol  the  'pleasures  of 
poverty,'  "  he  says,  "are  kin  to  those  who 
sing  nostalgic  hymns  to  'the  good  old 
days'  which  sound  better  than  they  Hved. 

"No,  I  am  not  glad  I  was  poor.  'Glad' 
is  not  the  word  for  it.  But,  since  I  am  in 
show  business — and,  particularly,  since  I 
am  a  comedian  in  show  business — I  was 
fortunate  to  be  poor.  Not  that  poverty,  of 
itself,  begets  buffoons — if  so,  all  poor 
people  would  be  comedians — but  that  being 
poor  gives  you  the  personality  of  a  come- 
dian.  One  of  the  reasons  is  that  poor  kids 


1  Gorgeous  lew 

Pin  Up  Book 

low  Readv 


Here's  the  most  gorgeous  pin  up  book 
of  all!  Here's  another  exciting  album  of 
Hollywood  stars  in  captivating  poses, 
prepared  by  the  editors  of  Photoplay 
Magazine.  This  great  new  album  is  more 
glamorous  than  any  of  the  previous 
editions. 

Full-Color  Photographs 

Each  thrilling  photograph  in  Photoplay 
Pinups  is  reproduced  in  full-color.  Each 
photograph  is  a  stunning  picture  of  one 
of  your  favorite  Hollywood  stars.  Each 
color  photograph  is  a  gem — each  picture 
is  so  yummy  that  you  will  have  a  difficult 
time  to  decide  which  pictures  to  pin  up 
in  your  room. 

These  breath-taking  pictures  are  printed 
so  that  each  one  can  be  cut  out  for  fram- 
ing or  pinning  up  without  interfering 
with  any  other  picture  in  the  book. 

These  Great  Hollywood 

Stars  in  Stunning 

Pin-Up  Poses 


•  Grace  Kelly 

•  Marilyn   Monroe 

•  Virginia   Mayo 

•  Jeanne  Grain 

•  Mara  Corday 

•  Betty  Grable 

•  Anita  Ekberg 

•  Mitzi  Gaynor 

•  Myrna  Hansen 

•  Debra  Paget 


•  Mamie  Van  Doren 

•  Corinne  Calvet 

•  Margia   Dean 

•  Rhonda  Fleming 

•  Gloria  Gordon 

•  Mara   Lane 

•  Joy  Lansjng 

•  Terry   Moore 

•  Rita   Moreno 

•  Kim   Novak 


Only  35c 

At  Newsstands  Now 

If  newsdealer  is  sold  out,  use  this  coupon 

If  Photoplay  Pinups  are  sold  out  at  your  news- 
stands, you  may  still  obtain  copies  of  this  fas- 
cinating book  by  mailing  the  attached  coupon 
at  once.  Hurry!  Don't  miss  this  gorgeous  array 
of  female  pulchritude.  Mail  coupon,  with  remit- 
tance— today. 


PHOTOPLAY 
PINUPS  No.  5 


For  the  newest  and  most 
glamorous  pin-up  pic- 
tures available  today,  get 
your  copy  of  Photoplay 
Pinups  No.  5 — now. 


^--------------------------a 

PHOTOPLAY  Dept.  WG-1155  I 

205  E.  42  St..  New  York  17,  N.  Y.         [ 

Send  me  postpaid  PHOTOPLAY  PINUPS  No.  [ 

5.  I  enclose  35c.  ■ 

I 
■ 

Name ■ 

Address.  . . 
City 


(Please    Print) 


State. 


75 


LOOK 


76 


what^  new 
in  eye  beauty ! 

Look  prettier — through 
curly  lashes  in  just 
seconds — with  the  new 
soft-cushjon 

>  PROFESSIONAL 

EYELASH    CURLER 
I     naturally, 
ij     it's  the  best . . 
^  "     gold  plated 

Molded  Cushion  refill,  only  |0* 

You  must  try  the  wonderful  new 
'  AUTOMATIC 

EYEBROW   PENCIL 

never  needs  sharpening 
— spring-locked  crayon 
can't  fall  out .  .  . 
Velvet  Black,  Dark  or 
Light  Brown,  and  now  in 
Dove  Grey  or  Auburn  .  .  . 
39(^  for  two  long-last  ing  refills 

Tweeze  with  ease-with  the  new  silvery 

EYEBROW  TWEEZERS 

designed  with  a  grip  that 

can't  slip— straight 

or  slant  edge  .  .  .     29^ 

Last  but  not  least— the  world-famous 

' MASCARA 

for  long,  dark,  velvety 
lashes— Solid  Form  in 
gorgeous  gold-plated 
vanity  case  — or  Cream 
Form  in  smart  kit 

SPECIALISTS    IN    EYE    BEAUTY 


have — because  they  have  to  have — the  I- 
don't-care  attitude  upon  which  all  coinedy 
is  based. 

"The  tricks  poor  kids  learn,  in  the  in- 
terest of  self-preservation,  come  in  handy, 
too,  later  on — especially  for  comedians. 
What,  for  instance,  is  the  first  thing  you 
do  when  embarrassed?  You  giggle,  don't 
you?  The  junior  citizens  of  Herkimer 
Street  in  Brooklyn,  where  I  was  born,  and 
of  similar  neighborhoods,  are  frequently 
embarrassed — by  bill  collectors  and  the 
landlord  ...  or  because  they  haven't  got 
a  bike  or  a  decent  suit  of  clothes  ...  or  by 
some  kid,  a  neighborhood  'dude,'  who  has 
such  things.  So  they  learn  early  to  cover 
with  a  giggle. 

"Or,  when  they're  in  a  tight  spot,  they 
go  into  an  act,  get  funny — in  order  to  get 
out  of  it  by  deflecting  attention  from  what- 
ever skulduggery  they've  been  up  to. 

"A  gift  for  the  ad  lib  also  comes  natu- 
rally," says  the  man  who  is  known  as 
"the  Master  of  the  ad  lib"  today,  "to  the 
poor  kid.  He  needs  it.  When  his  clown- 
ing falls  on  its  face,  he  has  to  talk  his 
way  out  of  the  tight  spots.  Or  the  butcher 
out  of  an  extra  pork  chop.  Or  the  land- 
lord into  not  badgering  Mom  when  the 
rent  is  overdue.  For  the  comedian — or  for 
any  performer  on  radio  and  television — 
a  gift  for  the  ad  lib,"  said  The  Greatest,  "is 
the  greatest." 

An  early  Gleason  ad  lib  is  remembered 
from  the  days  of  his  brief — and,  in  his 
book,  best-forgotten — career  in  Hollywood. 
In  one  of  his  first  pictures,  Jackie  was 
cast  as  a  hard -riding  Arab  and  was  thrown 
by  the  horse,  a  proud  Arabian  stallion, 
right  at  the  director's  feet. 

"You  said  you  could  ride!"  the  director 
screamed,  and  not  with  joy. 

Rising  from  the  dust  with  enormous 
dignity,  the  fallen  idol  inquired,  coldly, 
"Have  you  no  respect  for  a  great  stunt 
man?" 

Gleason,  so  the  story  goes,  rode  again! 

"Business-wise,  the  poor  kid's  training 
stands  him  in  good  stead,  too,  later  on," 
Gleason  says.  "For,  when  you're  poor,  you 
have  to  bargain  for  it,  make  out  a  pretty 
good  case  for  yourself.  On  the  night  my 
mother  died,  for  example,  I  made  my  'first 
appearance  on  any  stage.'  For  this  ap- 
pearance, I'd  arranged  to  borrow  a  suit — 
for  a  price — from  one  of  the  neighborhood 
kids.  At  the  last  moment,  he  backed 
down.  How  did  he  know,  until  I'd  done 
my  turn,  he  demanded,  whether  he'd  ever 


get  his  money?  'If  you  don't  give  me 
the  suit  now,'  I  said,  'I'll  never  be  able  to 
pay  you.'  I  got  the  suit.  The  problem  of 
storing  for  the  future  is  uppermost  in 
every  poor  kid's  mind.  He  eats  an  ice- 
cream cone  slowly  to  make  it  'last  longer.' 
You  have  to  be  sharp  to  beat  that  hoard- 
ing instinct.  In  this  respect,  I  differed  from 
other  kids  in  the  various  tenement  dis- 
tricts in  which  I  lived — I  always  acted  as 
though  I  had  it!  If  I  wanted  a  diamond 
ring  before  I  had  enough  dough  to  buy 
a  piece  of  paste,  I'd  find  a  way  to  get  it." 

The  poor  little  Gleason  kid's  ability  to 
"find  a  way  to  get  it"  may  well  be  respon- 
sible for  the  grown-up  Gleason's  present 
position  as  "the  biggest  single  commodity 
in  the  competitive  and  tricky  market  place 
that  is  television."  His  latest  multi-mil- 
lion-dollar contract  made  show-business 
history. 

Another  fascinating  facet  of  this  fabu- 
lous nabob  of  the  networks  is  that,  in  ad- 
dition to  starring  in  his  own  weekly  show, 
he  ringmasters  the  entire  enterprise:  He 
okays  the  scripts,  supervises  the  dance 
numbers,  commercials,  comedy  sketches, 
set  designs,  singers,  costumes,  make-up, 
and  selects  the  guest  stars.  Although,  as 
he  says,  the  ability  to  work  hard  may,  like 
lightning,  strike  anywhere — the  born-rich 
as  well  as  the  born-poor — the  inability  to 
delegate  responsibility  he  definitely  attrib- 
utes to  being  poor. 

"Mom  working,  no  one  around  to  do 
anything  for  you,"  he  says,  "so  you're 
geared,  from  infancy,  to  do  everything  for 
yourself.  If  you  don't,  it  doesn't  get  done. 
And,  right  or  wrong,  you  carry  this  feel- 
ing with  you  for  the  rest  of  your  life." 

Ingenuity,  says  Jackie,  is  also  part  of 
the  poor  kid's  heritage.  He  has  few,  if 
any  toys.  He  seldom  has  a  radio,  or 
"movie"  money,  so  he  must  amtise  him- 
self. He  clowns,  pantomimes,  works  up 
acrobatic  acts  and  ventriloquist  acts,  be- 
comes a  contortionist,  does  imitations.  All 
this  is  training  for  becoming  an  exhibi- 
tionist. 

One  of  the  poor  kid's  prime  pastimes, 
according  to  Jackie,  is  "taking  off"  the 
neighbors  .  .  .  "which  can  lead,"  he  says, 
"to  the  impersonations  of  movie  stars  and 
other  celebrities  with  which  so  many  per- 
formers make  their  bid  for  fame — and  I 
did,  too." 

The  well-known  and  loved  Gleason 
sketches,  in  which  he  portrays  characters 
familiar  to  all  who  observe  their  neighbors 


$1,000.00  REWARD 

...  is  offered  for  information  leading 
to  the  arrest  of  dangerous  "wanted" 
criminals.  Hear  details  about  the 
$1,000.00  reward  on  .  .  . 

TRUE  DETECTIVE  MYSTERIES 

Every   Wednesday   Night   on   MUTUAL   Stations 


Read  "THE  STRANGE  DISAPPEARANCE  OF  STEPHANIE  BRYAN"— 
how  Berkeley,  Cal.,  police  solved  the  3-mon+h  mystery — in  the  November 
TRUE  DETECTIVE  MAGAZINE  at  newsstands  now. 


closely,  were  derived,  Gleason  infers,  from 
neighbors  he  observed  closely,  as  a  boy, 
in  their  native  habitat. 

"The  Poor  Soul,"  a  pantomime  character 
who  has  no  name,  no  voice,  the  wistful 
little  man  always  trying  his  best  to  "make 
ends  meet" — until  someone  comes  along 
and  moves  the  ends.  .  .  . 

■Reggie  Van  Gleason  III,"  a  dashing 
debonair,  devil-may-care  playboy  whose 
socially  prominent  parents  are  baffled  by 
his  abnormal  antics — such  as  taking  a 
ranee  of  India  to  a  drive-in  movie  on  an 
elephant.  .  .  . 

"Rudy,  the  Repairman,"  the  most  de- 
structive repairman  the  world  has  ever 
known — who,  with  his  helper,  Whitey,  can 
reduce  a  substantial  home  to  a  pile  of 
debris  while  trying  to  get  a  mouse  out  of 
a  pipe.  .  .  . 

"Joe,  the  Bartender,"  a  warm,  friendly 
listener — a  composite  of  all  known  tavern 
philosophers.  .  .  . 

"The  Loud  Mouth,"  one  Charlie  Bratton 
— a  brash,  super -hearty,  squelch-proof  in- 
dividual who  roars  at  his  own  horrible 
jokes.  .  .  . 

"The  Honeymooners,"  Ralph  and  Alice 
Kramden — who,  with  their  neighbors, 
Trixie  and  Ed  Norton,  depict  the  tribula- 
tions of  life  in  a  Brooklyn  tenement.  .  .  . 

These  friends  of  yours  and  mine  may  be 
prototypes  of  Jackie's  boyhood  friends  and 
neighbors.  But  those  who  know  him  best 
remind  you  that  Jackie  spent  many  of  his 
young  years  "trying  to  make  ends  meet" 
.  .  .  that  the  adjectives  "dashing,  debonair 
and  devil-may-care"  are  descriptive  of 
Gleason  in  certain  moods  .  .  .  that  all 
thumbs  as  he  is  with  screwdriver  and  kin- 
dred tools,  he  would  know  better  than 
to  try  to  get  a  mouse  out  of  a  pipe  .  .  . 
that  The  Loudmouth  is  basically  insecure, 
and  is  trying  to  cover  up  this — and  so,  for 
much  of  his  life,  was  Jackie  .  .  .  that  as  a 


warm  and  friendly  listener,  and  something 
more  than  a  parlor  (or  tavern)  philoso- 
pher, he  can't  be  beat.  It  all  adds  up  to 
the  fact  that  Jackie  should  be  able  to  de- 
pict the  tribulations  of  life  in  a  Brooklyn 
tenement  because  he  grew  up  in  several 
of  them! 

Whether  the  characters  in  his  sketches 
were  suggested  by  neighbors,  or  came 
from  within  himself,  they  contributed  so 
much  to  his  success  that  he  has  reason 
to  say  he  was  "fortunate  to  be  poor."  And 
he  does  say  so. 

"Although,"  he  adds,  "money  shouldn't 
stand  in  the  way  of  making  a  career  for 
yourself — except,  perhaps,  in  show  busi- 
ness. For,  in  show  business,  such  detri- 
mental things  can  happen  to  the  ego  that, 
if  wealthy,  you  probably  wouldn't  take  it. 
Why  get  up  on  a  night-club  floor  and  have 
a  plate  thrown  at  you,  if  you  don't  have  to? 

"A  few  bom-rich  boys  carve  out  careers 
for  themselves.  Huntington  Hartford  and 
Howard  Hughes,  for  example,  work  as 
hard  as  if  they  didn't  know  where  their 
next  milhon  was  coming  from.  But  wealth 
is  liable  to  dilute  ambition  because  a  rich 
boy's  ego  is  fed  to  satiation  from  the  cradle 
to  senility.  He  doesn't  have  to  prove  him- 
self. His  forefathers  have  done  the  job  for 
him.  He  isn't  obliged,"  says  Jackie,  "to 
self-style  himself  'The  Greatest.' 

"When  I  was  doing  imitations  of  movie 
stars  during  my  early  days  in  vaudeville, 
I'd  boom,  'I'm  going  to  be  bigger  than  the 
guys  I  impersonate.'  This  wasn't  boastful. 
I  believed  it.    I  had  to.    Nobody  else  did. 

"The  ego  that  has  been  underfed  is  a 
spur  that  goads  you  on,"  Jackie  observes, 
"for  as  long  as  you  live.  It  does  me.  The 
satisfaction  I  have  achieved  isn't  enough — 
or  I  wouldn't  have  other  interests,  such  as 
writing  music,  conducting  an  orchestra, 
merchandising,  and  a  finger  in  the  pie  of 
other  shows  on  which  I  don't  appear.    I 


wouldn't  be  continually  reaching,  seeking 
new  fields  to  conquer,  such  as  the  radio 
program  I  hope  to  do  of  readings  from 
the  classics,  or  the  TV  panel  show  dealing 
with  psychic  phenomena  I  intend  to  do 
next  winter.  On  each  show,  a  member  of 
the  panel  will  offer  an  experience  in  proof 
of  psychic  phenomena  which  another 
member  will  attempt  to  explain  away  by 
attributing  it  to  natural  causes.  My  hope 
is  that  Professor  J.  B.  Ryan,  in  charge  of 
extra-sensory  perception  at  Duke  Univer- 
sity, will  be  our  moderator." 

Starting  as  a  hobby  for  his  "leisure  time" 
(and  what  year  would  that  be?),  Jackie 
has  done  a  considerable  amount  of  serious 
research  in  the  field  of  psychic  phenomena, 
which  includes  reading  the  works  of  Sir 
Oliver  Lodge,  Sir  Arthur  Conan  Doyle 
and  other  eminent  men  who  have  not  only 
researched  but  experienced  psychic  phe- 
nomena— in  which  Jackie  must  also  be- 
lieve, for  he  says:  "It  has  been  scientifi- 
cally proven  that  these  strange  things  do 
happen. 

"Psychic  phenomena  is  also  something," 
smart  businessman  Gleason  adds,  "in 
which  everyone  is  interested. 

"And  if  one  thing,  more  than  any  other, 
explains  the  reason  for  my  success,"  he 
says,  "it  is  that,  before  I  do  anything  on 
television — or  any  other  medium — I  ask 
myself:  Would  I  like  it?  If  the  answer  is 
in  the  affirmative,  I  go  ahead,  for  I  have 
a  common  enough  touch  to  know  that 
what  I  like,  millions  of  others  will,  also. 

"If  I  had  been  born  rich  I  might  not 
have  had  whatever  it  is  that  appeals  to 
the  masses,"  says  TV's  "biggest  single 
commodity." 

It  seems  almost  as  though  only  those 
who,  as  youngsters,  were  obliged  to  make 
their  own  laughs — if  they  were  to  have 
any — make  their  millions  as  laughmakers 
later  on. 


FLAME-GLO 


catch  every  eye! 

Flame-Glo  boasts  clear, 
deep-vibrant  colors  that  stay 
lastingly,  flatter  endlessly 
with  a  water-repellent  film  that 
sneers  at  smears.  Only 
velvet-smooth,  dewy-moist 
Flame-Glo  is  blessed 
with  Fastenol,  the  exclusive 
ingredient  that  seals  the 
vivid,  electric  color  to  your 
lips  until  you  remove  it! 
So  much  beauty  for 
so  little  cost! 

keep  kissable  with 
"TRIPLE-STAY"  LIPSTICK 

15^,  290  and  39^  (sUghtly  more  in  Canada) 


choose  from  these  flaming  colors: 

BRIGHT  PINK,  a  glad  pink  celebrity,  a  true  red 

FASHION  PINK,  a  light  orchid  medium,  a  brilliant  coral 

RASPBERRY,  a  deep  red  sun  gold,  an  orange  red 

GLAMOUR,  a  light  red  royal  wine,  a  deep  blue-red 


FLAME-CLO  JS  SOLD  ONLY  AT  CHAIN  VARIETY  5  &  10«  STORES  EVERYWHERE 


new!  Flame-Glo  Liquid 
Rouge  gives  your  cheeks 
a  warm,  natural  glow  that 
retains  color-freshness 
all  day.  In  unbreakable 


squeeze  bottle,  only 


39^ 


77 


Miracle  in  Music 


(Continued   from   page  43) 
respect  and  affection  of  all  who  saw  him. 

Statale,  the  village  near  Genoa  where 
GLno  was  born  in  1900,  numbers  about  400 
persons.  His  father,  Giovanni,  was  a 
miner.  He  had  two  brothers  and  a  sister. 
His  mother  died  when  he  was  five.  A 
brother  was  killed  in  a  mining  accident. 
Giovanni  remarried,  but  the  bond  between 
father  and  son  forever  remained  so  close 
that,  in  Gino's  crisis,  his  father's  word 
swung   the   balance. 

Both  loved  music.  To  the  Italian  boy  of 
that  day,  opera  was  as  exciting  as  tele- 
vision, the  movies  and  the  Broadway  stage. 
Caruso  was  their  "Superman,"  and  an- 
other young  Italian  named  Arturo  Tosca- 
nini  was  their  "Davy  Crockett."  Even  a 
middle-sized  town  had  its  opera  and,  when 
Gino  was  eight,  Giovanni  took  him  to  the 
Torino  Opera  House  to  see  "Cavalleria 
Rusticana"  and  "Pagliacci."  The  two  short 
operas,  which  are  always  performed  to- 
gether, were  to  remain  forever  important 
for  him. 

Thanks  to  the  village  priest,  Gino 
learned  music.  He  says,  "For  my  lessons, 
I  go  all  the  way  up  the  mountain.  It  takes 
two  hours  to  climb  up  and  two  hours  to 
walk  back  and  the  whole  day  is  gone.  But 
I  learn  to  play  the  organ." 

When  Italy  joined  the  Allies  in  World 
War  I,  Gino,  then  about  15,  became  an 
officers'  orderly,  caring  for  their  quarters, 
uniforms  and  boots.  Soon  he  learned  that 
extra  service  meant  extra  time  off.  Gino 
spent  that  time  at  the  opera.  He  says,  "I 
see  them  all,  maybe  eight,  nine  a  week." 
How  much  the  lad — who  had  once  been 
a  boy  soprano  in  the  village  church — 
longed  to  be  on  the  other  side  of  the  foot- 
lights can  only  be  judged  by  a  wistful 
remark  to  his  daughter,  much  later:  "If 
I  had  the  voice,  I  would  be  on  top  today." 
In  1922,  he  bade  his  father  goodbye  and, 
with  a  nephew,  came  to  the  United  States. 
He  opened  a  cobbler's  shop.  For  recrea- 
tion, there  was  the  Metropolitan  Opera. 
Not  the  lavish  "Golden  Horseshoe,"  where 
the  wealthy  patrons  sat.  "Who  needs  seats 
at  the  opera?"  says  Gino.  With  other 
devoted  young  music  lovers,  he  went  to 
the  top  balcony,  six  floors  up,  and  stood 
throughout  the  performance. 

With  the  coming  of  that  new  gadget, 
radio,  Gino's  musical  ambition  surged 
again.  As  an  organist,  he  was  out  of 
practice,  but  the  accordion  was  still  work- 
ing. He  played  it  on  one  of  New  York's 
small  radio  stations.  The  pay  was  small, 
but  the  prestige  was  great,  particularly  at 
parties — such  as  the  Halloween  party  the 
three  Molinelli  daughters  gave  in  1929. 

His  romantic  recollection  undimmed  by 
the  years,  Gino  says  proudly,  "It  was  a 
blind  date.  My  nephew,  John  Caffese, 
brought  me  to  the  party.  Caroline  played 
the  piano,  I  played  the  accordion.  Next 
year,  we  were  married  at  the  Church  of 
Christ  the  King.  It  was  a  double  wedding. 
John  married  her  sister." 

In  their  apartment  in  the  Bronx,  there 
was  laughter,  music  and  one  sharp  differ- 
ence of  opinion.    When  playing  their  phon- 
ograph,   Caroline    preferred    the    popular 
tunes  of  the  day.     Gino  loved  his  opera. 
Trying  to  change  her  taste,  he  played  his 
own    favorite    record — Caruso's    recording 
of   "Vesti    la    Giubba"    from    "Pagliacci" — 
over    and    over.      Caroline    was    only    ir- 
ritated by  its  demanding  volume  and  in- 
T    sistent   tragedy.   Then   Gino   had   an   idea. 
V    Scrimping  on  his  own  small  luxuries,  he 
B    outwitted  their  budget  and  bought  tickets 
for  the  twin   bill,  "Pagliacci"  and  "Caval- 
leria Rusticana."  Standing  room,  of  course. 

But  he  won  his  point.  Once  Caroline  saw  it 
7o 


performed  on  the  great  stage,  she,  too,  fell 
in  love  with  the  opera. 

Throughout  the  stringent  Thirties 
when  their  daughter  Lorraine  (who  has 
her  mother's  dark  curly  hair  and  her 
father's  liquid  brown  eyes)  was  small — 
there  were  few  opera  tickets,  even  for 
standing  room.  It  took  all  Gino's  industry 
and  all  Caroline's  thrift  to  keep  finances 
on  an  even  keel. 

But  there  was  the  radio.  The  broadcasts 
of  the  Metropolitan  Opera  Company  be- 
came Gino's  chief  delight.  He  managed 
to  send  a  few  dollars  to  the  Metropolitan 
Opera  Guild.  "Why  shouldn't  I  help 
support  a  thing  I  love  so  much?"  They, 
in  turn,  sent  him  their  magazine.  Gino 
studied  every  word,  learning — not  as  a 
student  who  crams  for  an  examination — 
but  as  a  lover  learns,  recreating  in  his 
imagination  every  detail. 

Most  important  of  all  in  their  budget- 
ing was  money  for  small  Lorraine's  music 
lessons.  When  she  was  seven,  they  bought 
her  a  violin. 

Lorraine  hated  it.  She  adds,  "I'd  stand 
there,  sawing  away  at  the  'Minuet  in  G,' 
and  dread  to  see  my  father  come  home. 
Dad  would  listen  a  bit,  then  hold  his  ears. 
He'd  say,  'No,  no!  You  haven't  learned 
your  lesson.' " 

But  one  day,  furious  with  the  squawks 
made  by  misplaced  bow  on  agonized 
string,  she  flung  down  the  violin  and 
turned  on  the  phonograph.  As  Gino  came 
up  the  stairs,  he  heard  Lily  Pons'  famed 
aria  from  "Lucia  di  Lammermoor."  As  he 
entered,  he  heard  his  daughter's  voice,  tak- 
ing every  high  note,  clear  and  true,  right 
along  with  the  great  coloratura. 

His  wonder  and  his  awe  have  remained 
in  Gino's  memory.  "There  she  was,  this 
little  thing,  standing  and  singing  with 
Lily  Pons.  With  Lily  Pons,  mind  you.  And 
I  can't  believe  it.  So  I  say  to  her,  'You 
like  to  sing?'  And  she's  a  little  mad  and 
say  of  course  she  like  to  sing.  Then  I 
say,  'You  have  the  voice.  Do  you  want 
lessons?'  And  she  say,  'Sure,  I  want  les- 
sons.'    So  the  violin  go  out  the  window." 

Buying  a  piano  took  doing,  but  it  was 
a  joy  to  them  all.  Today,  if  you  visit  the 
Pratos'  tidy,  pleasant  four-room  apartment 
on  158th  Street  in  the  Bronx,  and  ask 
Lorraine  to  sing,  Caroline  steps  to  the 
piano.  But,  before  starting  the  accom- 
paniment, she  apologizes  for  not  being  a 
professional  musician.  As  she  plays,  you 
realize  that,  while  she  lacks  the  techni- 
cal efficiency  of  the  professional,  she  has 
the  touch  and  appreciation. 

Gino,  too,  tried  his  hand  at  the  key- 
board. As  Lorraine  recalls:  "Dad  was 
usually  so  tired  when  he  got  home  from 
work  that  he  just  liked  to  sit  in  his  chair 
and  read  or  listen.  But,  when  we  got  the 
piano,  he  would  play  and  sing  some  of 
the  little  Italian  songs  he  had  known  as 
a  boy.     Songs  his  father  had  taught  him." 

Lorraine's  first  trip  to  the  opera  was 
a  surprise.  "I  was  fifteen  and  Dad  said 
we  were  going  out  but  wouldn't  say  where. 
When  we  got  off  the  subway,  we  were  at 
the  Metropolitan.  They  were  doing  'Cav- 
alleria Rusticana'  and  'Pagliacci' — the 
first  operas  grandfather  took  Dad  to  see, 
the  first  he  took  Mother  to  see,  and  now 
the  first  they  took  me  to  see." 

All  Gino's  dreams  centered  around  Lor- 
raine. When  she  finished  high  school,  she 
spent  two  years  studying  music.  It  took  all 
the  family  savings.  But  there  are  more 
auditions  available  for  musical  comedy 
than  there  are  for  opera.  Lorraine  tried 
out  a  few  times,  but  musical-comedy  di- 
rectors were  not  looking  for  a  voice  trained 
in  traditional  Italian  bel  canto  style.  When 
she    grew     discouraged,     Gino    reassured 


her:  "I  would  not  spend  a  dime  on  les- 
sons for  you  if  I  did  not  think  you  have 
the  voice." 

When,  as  Lorraine  says,  "Papa's  pocket- 
book  gave  out,"  he  reluctantly  permitted 
her  to  take  a  commercial  course  and  go 
to  work  as  a  secretary  to  an  executive 
for  20th  Century-Fox. 

Lorraine  had  a  romantic  reason  for 
wanting  to  be  practical.  A  reason  named 
Eugene  Joannides,  a  handsome  and  bril- 
liant young  man  whose  mother  was  French 
and  whose  father  was  Polish.  They  had 
been  sweethearts  since  grarrmiar  school 
and,  as  soon  as  Gene  took  his  degree  in 
business  administration  at  the  College  of 
the  City  of  New  York,  he  and  Lorraine 
reached   an  understanding. 

Says  Lorraine,  "Gene,  too,  thought  we 
should  be  old-fashioned  and  he'd  ask  my 
father  for  my  hand.  Since  Dad  had  his 
heart  so  set  on  my  music,  I  was  so  wor- 
ried about  what  he  would  say  that,  when 
I  left  them  alone  in  the  living  room,  I  kept 
the  door  open,  just  a  bit.  I  was  so  ner- 
vous I  had  to  hear  what  Dad  would  say." 

Gene,  after  telling  Gino  he  must  soon 
go  into  the  Army,  said  he  would  like,  be- 
fore he  left,  to  give  Lorraine  her  ring. 
"And  then  I  was  so  proud  of  my  father!" 
says  Lorraine.  "He  didn't  say  a  thing 
about  a  musical  career.  He  just  asked 
if  we  loved  each  other.  And,  when  Gene 
said  yes,  Dad  told  him,  'That's  the  only 
important  thing.'  I  ran  in  and  kissed  them 
both." 

They  were  engaged  for  two  years.  When 
Gene  returned  this  spring  from  Korea 
and  was  accepted  into  the  junior-executive 
training  program  at  one  of  the  major 
banks,  they  set  the  wedding  date  for  Au- 
gust 27 — and  they  were  making  up  their 
guest  list,  the  night  the  new  television 
program.  The  $64,000  Question,  debuted. 

Lorraine  remembers  it  well.  "Redmond 
O'Hanlon,  the  police  officer  who  answered 
the  Shakespeare  questions,  was  on.  I  ad- 
mired him  so  much,  and  I  couldn't  help  ; 
thinking  he  was  like  my  father — for  the 
sake  of  his  family,  he  had  taken  a  job 
far  removed  from  the  poetry  he  liked  so 
much.  I  was  sure,  too,  that  my  father 
knew  as  much  about  opera  as  Mr.  O'Han- 
lon knew  about  Shakespeare.  So  I  wrote 
the  letter." 

It   was    brief    and    simple,    she    says,    but 
between  its  lines  it  must  have  reflected  the  j 
family's  close,  affectionate  happiness. 

When  she  mailed  it,  Lorraine  had  no 
idea  who  the  originator  of  the  program, 
Louis  G.  Cowan,  was.  Certainly,  she  did 
not  know  that  long  ago,  when  he  was 
producing  Quiz  Kids,  Lou  Cowan  had  de- 
cided that  the  best  quiz  contestants  came 
from  families  where  there  is  great  love. 
Lorraine,  guided  only  by  love  and  ad- 
miration for  her  father,  had  described 
just  the  kind  of  contestant  the  Cowan 
office  sought. 

Events  moved  with  suspenseful  swift- 
ness. A  staff  member  paid  a  scouting  ; 
visit  to  Gino  Prato's  shop  at  315  West  57th 
Street  and  found  it  just  like  many  another 
small  shop.  On  the  shelf  above  the  shaft 
of  emery  wheels  and  buffing  brushes,  there 
were  the  usual  dusty  shoes,  abandoned  by 
forgetful  owners.  On  the  bench  was  the 
usual  stack  of  shoes  broken  by  the  pave- 
ments. Along  the  opposite  wall  stood  a 
high  shoeshine  stand,  and  at  the  rear  were 
two  enclosed  benches  for  the  repair-while- 
you-wait  customers. 

"There    was    nothing    to    distinguish    it. 

Nothing  but  the  radio  which  stayed  tuned 

to  the  classical  music  of  WQXR,  the  New 

■  York    Times    station.      And    nothing    but 

his  own  sunny  disposition  to  set  Gino  apart 


from  a  hundred  other  little  Italian  shoe- 
makers. A  customer  characterized  him: 
"He's  not  the  kind  of  cobbler  who  shakes 
his  head  as  though  your  shoes  were  the 
sloppiest  he  had  ever  seen.  Gino  says,  'It's 
a  beautiful  shoe.     I  fix.' " 

Gino's  summons  to  appear  on  The  $64,000 
Question  produced  the  most  excitement 
the  Prato  household  had  ever  seen.  Anx- 
iously, he  asked  Caroline  and  Lorraine, 
"You  think  I  know  enough?  You  think 
I  not  stand  up  there  and  be  a  big  fool?" 

Equally  anxious,  they  tried  to  reassure 
him.  Who  else,  they  asked,  had  opera  so 
deep  in  his  heart  and  soul?  Then,  wom- 
anlike, they  wanted  him  to  look  nice,  too. 
His  Sunday  suit,  they  decided,  was  far 
too  shabby  for  the  penetrating  stare  of 
the  television  camera.  When  embarrassed 
Gino  pointed  out  there  was  no  cash  at 
hand  to  buy  another,  Lorraine  insisted 
on  drawing  money,  saved  for  her  wed- 
ding, to  buy  one.  They  wanted  the  world 
to  see  him  at  his  best. 

His  first  visit  to  CBS  Studio  52  proved 
frustrating.  Time  ran  out  just  as  he  started 
toward  the  cameras.  His  second  appear- 
ance was  only  a  little  longer.  He  was  still 
identifying  opera  characters  when  the 
timekeeper  called  a  halt  and  master  of 
ceremonies  Hal  March  asked  him  to  come 
back  next  week. 

But  he  had  won  $512,  and  that  was  real 
money  in  the  Prato  household.  Because 
he  had  reached  the  first  "plateau,"  the  sum 
was  forever  his — he  could  not  lose  it  on  a 
future  question.  Lorraine  says,  "That  was 
quite  a  night.  The  girls  had  given  me  a 
surprise  shower  and  I  came  home,  loaded 
with  gifts.  And  there  was  Dad,  richer 
by  $512!" 

It  was  a  sum  to  dream  on,  and  to 
worry  about,  particularly  after  an  enter- 
prising United  Press  cable  editor  drop- 
ped into  the  store  to  tell  Gino  the   Ital- 


ian papers  had  given  the  story  a  big  play 
and  in  Italy  he  was  a  hero.  Gino  confessed 
he  intended  to  use  the  money  to  visit 
his  father,  whom  he  had  not  seen  in 
twenty-three  years.  "But,"  he  said 
anxiously,  "you  say  it  is  in  the  papers 
there?  All  about  me?  But  my  father,  he 
is  92  years  old.  He  is  too  old  for  this. 
I'm  afraid  this  excitement  will  kill  him." 

Should  he  ask  for  the  $512  immediately 
and  hop  the  next  plane  to  Italy?  Or 
should  he  try  for  the  $1,000,  hoping  to 
be  able  to  bring  CaroUne  along  with  him? 

For  guidance  in  this  problem  where  he 
felt  his  father's  life  might  be  at  stake,  he 
sought  the  intercession  of  his  most  be- 
loved of  saints — Mother  Gabrini,  who,  like 
himself,  had  been  an  Italian-come-to- 
America.  He  felt  it  particularly  mean- 
ingful that  her  saint's  day  should  have 
occurred  between  his  first  and  second 
visits  to  the  program.  He  began  what  he 
later  was  to  call,  on  the  air,  "much  church 
kneeling  and  much  church  praying." 

To  his  surprise,  he  found  he  was  not 
alone.  Customers  of  all  faiths  began  drop- 
ping into  his  store  to  say,  "Gino,  we're 
praying  for  you." 

Gino,  to  deserve  their  faith,  began  to 
study.  When,  on  Sunday,  Caroline  and 
Lorraine  left  him  alone  in  the  apartment, 
he  read,  played  recordings,  sang  arias.  On 
the  day  of  the  progrsim,  he  left  his  shop 
at  the  unaccustomed  hour  of  3:30  P.M., 
went  to  his  neighbor,  a  tailor,  to  pick  up 
his  freshly  pressed  new  suit,  rejected  the 
producer's  offer  to  send  a  car  for  him 
and  rode  the  subway  to  the  studio. 

Hal  March  took  the  fateful  card  and 
read:  "Arturo  Toscanini,  one  of  the  great 
conductors  of  operas,  started  his  musical 
career  playing  a  musical  instrument  in  an 
orchestra.  For  one  thousand  dollars — 
what  instrument  did   Toscanini  play?" 

Gino  Prato  didn't  even  need  to  clear  his 


throat.  Toscanini,  like  Caruso,  was  his 
hero.  Promptly  he  said,  "A  cello."  Off- 
stage, he  chuckled  as  he  told  friends  what 
he  regarded  as  a  private  joke  between 
him  and  the  show's  distinguished  board  of 
editors.  "It  said,  'in  an  orchestra,' "  he 
explained.  "That  was  important.  The 
very  first  instrument  Toscanini  played 
was  an  ocarina." 

With  a  surge  of  confidence,  he  took  the 
$2,000  question  and  cleared  it  by  giving 
two  operas  in  which  the  devil  appeared 
as  a  character.  He  won  $4,000  by  naming 
three  Metropolitan  Opera  managers:  Gat- 
ti-Casazzi,  Edward  Johnson  and  Rudolf 
Bing.  Again  he  had  reached  a  plateau. 
From  that  point  on,  the  show's  consola- 
tion prize,  a  Cadillac  convertible  valued 
at  more  than  $5,000,   was  his. 

Again,  there  was  a  week's  wait — a  week 
in  which  Gino  Prato  began  to  learn  what 
it  was  like  to  burst  from  the  ranks  of 
everyday  folk  and  into  the  spotlight  fo- 
cused on  a  celebrity.  The  pressure  was 
building.  Newspapers  printed  his  picture, 
television  critics  wrote  about  his  charm, 
people  stopped  him  on  the  street.  Every- 
one wanted  to  know  if  he  would  go  for  the 
sixty-four-thousand-dollar    question. 

Gino  held  his  own  focus  on  the  upcom- 
ing $8,000.  He  won  it,  too,  the  following 
Tuesday,  by  identifying  the  characters  in 
"II  Trovatore." 

Here  was  a  danger  point,  and  no  one 
realized  it  better  than  gentle  little  Gino 
Prato.  "There  is  so  much  to  know  about 
opera,  no  one  can  know  it  all,"  he  said 
carefully.  But  he  made  no  secret  of  his 
delight.  He  said,  "All  my  life  I  worked 
hard  to  send  my  daughter  to  singing 
school.  I  wanted  her  to  go  on  the  stage. 
Now  I  am  the  one  who  is  on  the  stage.  I 
never  thought  in  my  old  age  this  wonder- 
ful thing  would  happen." 

And,  always,  he  spoke  of  his  father.    "I 


\NY\o  has  the  Baby-Soft  Skin? 


BOTH  HAVEl     Both  use  Cuticura 


—^\\A.li(itd-t  0^  aiL  li(xd.O\^^  so<xps  bu  aotuou^  "k^-fs 


Laboratory  tests  prove  Cuticura  mildest  of  all 
leading  soaps.  Only  soap  superfatted  and 
mildly  medicated  to  maintain  the  natural  mois- 
ture and  normal,  healthy  acidity  of  the  skin. 
Exquisitely  fragrant  too— hard-milled,  long- 
lasting,  one  of  the  finest  soaps  made! 

See  thrilling  results  in  7  days.  Do  as  hundreds 
of  doctors  and  thousands  upon  thousands  of 
women  recommend  —  lather-massage  a  full 
minute  twice  daily.  If  blackheads,  externally 
caused  pimples,  flaky  dryness,  oily  shine  are  a 
problem,  use  Cuticura  Ointment  too  every 
night.  See  exciting  new  softness,  new  freshness, 
radiant  new  loveliness  in  just  a  few  days! 

Sensational  New  Cuticura  Shampoo  combines  the  best 
features  of  soap  and  soapless  shampoos.  Leaves  hair 
silky,  gleaming,  completely  manageable.  Try  it! 


uticura  ' 


Proved  V^ay  to  Lovelier  Skin 


79 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as- 
sortment of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety 
of  luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons, 
cottons,  gabardines,  woolens, 
silks,  etc.  Expensive  dresses — 
original  value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cardsl  5  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 

MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON! 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.    861  | 

(One  of  the  oldest  and  largest  mail  order  houses  of  its  kind) 
I     103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  3,  N.  Y.  | 

!  Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below    1 

J  with    Free    Button   Cards.    Enclosed    find    $1    de-    ' 

I  posit,    balance    C.O.D.    plus    postage.    Money    re- 

I  turned  if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and 

I  foreign  orders  accepted. 

I  Circle  Siie: 

I  Girl's  Sizes  7.  8.  10.  12.  14  are  S  for  $2.75 

J  Junior  Miss  Sizes  9.  11 .  1  3.  1  S  are  5  for  $3.75 

'  Sizes  12.  14.  16.  18.  20.  38.  40.  42.  44,  5  for  $3.75 

I  Size.  14'/,.  16 '/a.  18-/,.  20  y,.  22!/,.  24  "^.5  for  $3. 75 

I  Extra  Large  Sizes  46.  48.  50.  52  are  5  for  $4.75 

I      D  Check    here  to  save   C.O.D.    fee.   Send   full 

I  amount  with  25<*  postage. 

,  D  Please   send  FREE  CATALOG  FOR  FAMILY 

I 
I 

I     AddrcM. 


Name... 


City 


Zone       State . 


80 


write  a  letter  to  my  papa  but  I  hear  noth- 
ing from  him." 

Friends,  while  confident  of  his  intimate 
knowledge  of  the  Italian  composers,  wor- 
ried what  would  happen  if  the  question- 
writing  musicologists  turned  to  the  Ger- 
mans. Gino,  proving  his  own  scholarship, 
correctly  called  the  Wagner  compositions, 
"music  dramas,"  then  said,  "I  hear  lots  of 
Wagner.  I  stand  in  the  back  of  the  opera 
house  with  Richard  Tucker  before  he  ever 
learn  to  sing  at  the  Met.  Long  time  ago, 
I  stand  with  Jan  Peerce  at  the  back.  .  .  ." 

But  the  strain  was  telling.  Says  Lor- 
raine, "That  was  the  week  we  started  to 
tiptoe  around  the  house."  Gino,  when  he 
came  before  the  camera  the  next  Tuesday, 
explained  his  hoarse  croaking  by  say- 
ing, "I  sing  so  many  arias  I  lose  my 
voice."  He  also  had  done  "a  lot  of  think- 
ing, a  lot  of  praying" — particularly  about 
his  father.  "He  hasn't  seen  my  daughter 
and  he  hasn't  seen  my  wife."  Here  lay 
the  crux  of  Gino's  take-it-or-risk-it  de- 
cision. "Well,  I  think  to  go  across,  and 
what  I  need  to  do,  I  gotta  go  on." 

Ihe  question  took  a  Gino  to  answer 
it.  Correctly,  he  identified  the  opera 
Puccini  died  before  completing  as  the 
seldom-performed  "Turandot."  He  also 
gave  the  name  of  the  man  who  finished  it 
— ^Franco  Alfano.  Its  first  performance, 
he  stated,  was  at  La  Scala,  in  Milan,  on 
April  25,   1926. 

By  that  time,  it  seemed  as  though  all 
America  and  a  notable  portion  of  the  rest 
of  the  world  had  discovered  Mr.  Prato.  It 
wasn't  just  his  opera  information  which 
intrigued  people,  it  was  his  devotion  to 
music,  his  modesty,  his  honesty,  his  charm. 
The  president  of  a  certain  respected  re- 
search firm,  cruising  the  Hudson  on  his 
yacht,  requested  total  silence  from  his 
guests  while  Gino  was  on  the  air.  A  tele- 
vision critic  told  of  a  professional  intel- 
lectual— who,  he  suspected,  owned  a  tele- 
vision set  only  so  that  he  might  condemn 
the  programs — who  now  confessed  shame- 
facedly he  had  become  a  fan.  A  tough- 
mug  taxi  driver  spoke  for  less  double- 
domed  viewers.  "You  know  about  that 
guy  Prato?  The  one  with  the  operas? 
I  tell  you,  my  wife's  gone  buggy  about 
that  guy.  You  know,  she  even  went  to 
church  and  lit  a  candle  for  Prato?"  The 
specialists  in  ratings,  ARB,  gave  authority 
to  the  reports.  Crediting  The  $64,000 
Question  with  52.3  per  cent  of  the  audi- 
ence during  July,  they  put  it  in  the  Num- 
ber One  spot. 

Sixteen  thousand  dollars.  Even  with  the 
bite  taxes  would  take,  Gino  had  enough 
for  two  honeymoons — a  second  one  for 
Caroline  and  himself,  a  dream  trip  for 
Lorraine  and  Gene.  Would  he  quit  there? 

Gino  settled  that  matter  the  following 
week  by  winning  $32,000.  The  question, 
when  it  came,  brought  a  horrified  gasp 
from  the  studio  audience.  "Giuseppe 
Verdi  wrote  an  opera  which  later,  acci- 
dentally, launched  Arturo  Toscanini  as  a 
conductor  because  of  the  illness  of  the 
regular  conductor.  Name  the  opera,  the 
country  where  young  Toscanini  conducted 
it,  the  city  in  which  it  had  its  world  pre- 
miere and  give  the  eve  of  what  holiday 
it  occurred." 

Gino  ticked  off  the  answers.  "  'Aida.' 
Brazil.  Cairo,  Egypt.  Christmas  Eve." 
For  good  measure,  he  added,  "December 
24,  1871." 

What  does  a  man  do  when,  within  a 
few  weeks,  the  life  which  he  has  lived 
for  55  years,  totally  changes? 

Even  before  he  faced  the  ultimate  choice 
of  risking  his  fifty  years  of  learning  on 
the  $64,000  question  or  accepting  his  safe 
$32,000,  there  had  been  permanent  changes 
for  Gino,  both  financially  and  emotionally. 
When   the   American   public   finds   a   new 


hero,  it  overwhelms  him.  In  this  adulation, 
there  is  danger.  It  can  swell  a  man's  head, 
ruin  his  judgment,   turn  him  ridiculous. 

But  the  tenets  by  which  Gino  lived  in 
obscurity — his  love  of  God,  his  love  of 
family,  his  love  of  music — enabled  him  to 
meet  each  honor  and  challenge  with  dig- 
nity. 

He  was  shyly  proud  when,  after  he 
answered  the  $4,000  question,  he  re- 
ceived a  letter  from  James  J.  Lyons,  presi- 
dent of  the  Borough  of  The  Bronx,  ap- 
pointing him  honorary  "ambassador  of 
music."  He  was  both  surprised  and  ap- 
preciative when,  as  he  passed  the  $8,000 
mark,  RCA  Victor — although  affiliated 
with  CBS'  rival,  NBC — reached  across  the 
normal  network  barriers  and  quietly, 
without  public  announcement,  sent  him  a 
complete  library  of  opera  recordings,  to- 
gether with  their  thanks  for  what  he  had 
done  to  popularize  opera.  For  the  in- 
terest he  had  aroused  in  Italian  travel,  a 
travel  bureau  promised  him  round-trip 
passage  for  the  whole  family. 

But  most  important  of  all,  to  Gino,  was 
the    fact    that,    thanks   to    the    public   in- 
terest in  him,  Lorraine  was  to  have  her 
chance  for  opera  auditions.  RCA  Victor  set 
a  date  for  September,  as  soon  as  she  re- 
turned from  her  honeymoon.  The  New  York 
City    Center    Opera    Company    auditioned 
and  signed  her.  Gino  had  done  his  part.   • 
The  voice  he  believed  in  would  be  judged   j 
by  opera   authorities.     From-  there   on,  it  ; 
was  up  to  them — and  Lorraine.  ] 

Gino  was  offered — and  accepted — a  new  ; 
job  at  a  $10,000-a-year  salary,  plus  time    ; 
free  to  maintain  his  own  shop.    American    ■ 
Biltrite   Rubber    Company,   manufacturers    , 
of  shoemakers'   supplies,   stating  that  the   j 
morale    of   the    little    shoemakers    around 
the  country  was  at  a  low  ebb,  hired  Gino  to   • 
travel    the    United    States    to    meet    with 
them,    talk    with    them,    and    let    people 
know    he    wasn't    the    only    one    among 
them  with  learning  and  talent. 

Then  came  two  happenings  which  were 
treasures  beyond  all  price  for  Gino. 

Rudolph  Bing,  manager  of  the  Metro- 
politan, let  Gino  know  his  standing-room 
days  were  over.  With  his  letter  of  thanks 
for  the  publicity  Gino  had  brought  the 
Met,  Mr.  Bing  sent  two  season  tickets, 
eighth  row  center. 

■t»ut  the  greatest  honor  of  all  was  a  per- 
sonal message  from  the  great  Maestro 
himself.  The  day  before  his  $64,000  ques- 
tion was  due,  Gino,  returning  from  work, 
found  a  chauffeur-driven  limousine  drawn 
up  before  his  door.  Out  stepped  Mme. 
Vladimir  Horowitz,  wife  of  the  famed 
pianist  and  daughter  of  Arturo  Toscanini. 
Her  father,  she  told  Gino,  wanted  him  to 
know  he  had  watched  every  telecast.  He 
sent  his  congratulations  and  best  wishes 
for  Gino's  top  success. 

With  tears  of  joy  streaming  down  his 
cheeks,  Gino  replied,  "You  tell  your  daddy, 
as  one  Italian  fellow  to  another,  that  if 
they  ask  me  questions  about  him,  they 
can't  stump  me.  I  know  his  career  inside 
out,  top  and  bottom." 

In  all  this  flood  of  praise,  one  voice  was 
still  missing  and  that  was  the  one  which 
Gino  most  desired  to  hear — his  father's. 

When  only  hours  remained  before  he 
had  to  make  his  final  decision,  that  voice 
came — and  came  with  a  drama  to  rival  the 
finale  of  an  opera. 

There  is,  in  New  York,  an  Italian  lan- 
guage radio  station,  WOV,  which  also  has 
studios  in  Rome.  They  sent  an  interviewer, 
with  recording  equipment,  to  remote  Stat- 
ale.  He  began  transcribing  as  soon  as  he 
arrived  and  asked  a  townsman,  "Where  do 
I  find  the  home  of  Giovanni  Prato?"  Said 
the  townsman,  "You  mean  Giovanni  Prato, 
the  father  of  Gino  Prato,  who,  in  America, 
has  won  a  fortune  of  twenty  million  lira?" 


No  road  led  to  the  house,  so  the  excited 
residents  carried  the  heavy  recording 
equipment   up    the   steep   mountain   path. 

Then  Gino's  papa  spoke.  His  voice  was 
thin  and  aged,  but  it  still  held  the  author- 
ity'— and  the  love — Gino  remembered  after 
thirty-three  years  of  separation.  As  it  came 
into  New  York  by  short  wave,  to  be  tran- 
scribed for  re-broadcast,  Gino  heard  it 
privately,  in  the  control  room.  He  listened, 
then  went  to  St.  Patrick's  Cathedral,  where 
he  lit  a  candle  in  each  chapel  and  prayed. 

When  airtime  came  at  CBS  Studio  52 
that  evening,  there  were  nearly  as  many 
standees  at  the  rear  of  the  theater  as  Gino 
had  been  accustomed  to  finding  at  the 
Metropolitan.  Outside,  still  more  people 
protested  furiously  when  the  ultimate  ca- 
pacit>-  of  the  studio  was  reached  and  the 
doors  clanged  shut  to  exclude  them.  Every- 
one wanted  to  know  just  one  thing:  Will 
he,  or  won't  he,  go  for  the  sixty-four? 
When  the  warm-up  announcer  asked  for 
a  show  of  hands,  the  audience  was  evenly 
divided  in  its  opinion  of  which  Gino  should 
do.  Gino,  when  he  came  to  the  camera, 
seemed  the  only  one  in  the  house  to  be  in 
full  possession  of  his  composure.  In  the 
front  row,  Caroline,  Lorraine  and  Gene, 
remembering  how  upset  he  had  been  all 
week,  masked  their  concern  with  fixed 
smiles.  Emcee  Hal  March  tripped  his 
tongue  in  a  stutter.  The  technical  crew  was 
obviously   tense. 

■But  Gino's  expression  could,  without 
much  exaggeration,  have  been  called  ex- 
alted. His  voice,  which  had  cracked  during 
the  earlier  big-money  questions,  had  re- 
gained its  mellowness.  From  his  pocket  he 
took  the  cable  which  had  confirmed  the 
short-wave  message.  "I  hear  from  my 
papa,"  he  announced.  "My  daddy  cable  me. 
Fermate  dove  ti  trove  e  basta  cosi — Saluti, 
Papa." 

"Then  he  translated.  "My  daddy  says, 
'Stop  wherever  you  are.  It  is  enough  this 
way.  Regards.' " 

Gino  hesitated,  as  if  making  a  full  re- 
view of  his  decision.  "Maybe  I  know  the 
answers  to  some  more  questions.  But  may- 
be, if  I  lose,  I  give  my  papa  a  shock  and 
it  kill  him.  I  want  to  see  my  papa  when 
I  go  to  Italy.  My  papa,  he  CEill  me  a  hard- 
head— stubborn.  So  I  be  a  soft-head  now. 
Because  I  take  my  daddy's  advice  since 
I  was  a  kid,  I  accept  it  now.  I  accept  it 
and  take  the  money." 

Throughout  the  audience,  there  was 
both  applause  and  a  sigh.  The  crowd  was 
disappointed.  It  was  a  thoughtful  disap- 
pointment. Watching  expressions,  you  could 
see  each  person  wondering  what  he  him- 
self would  have  done. 

What  sort  of  man  will  Gino  Prato  be  in 
the  days  ahead?  The  days  when  the  ex- 
citement has  calmed  down,  when  they  all 
return  from  their  trip  and  when  their 
audience  with  His  Holiness,  the  Pope,  and 
the  reunion  with  his  father  drift  into 
memory? 

Perhaps  there  is  a  prediction  in  one  of 
Gino's  last  acts  in  the  studio.  While  pho- 
tographers were  still  clamoring  for  more 
pictures,  when  reporters  were  firing  ques- 
tions and  VEP's  were  waiting,  Gino  ex- 
cused himself  to  go  to  the  edge  of  the  set 
where  a  small  girl  was  crying.  Twelve- 
year-old  Gloria  Lockerman  had  come  all 
the  way  from  Baltimore  but  had  been  only 
introduced  when  the  program  ended.  She 
was  sure  she  had  lost  her  chance.  Gino 
patted  her  head.  "Don't  cry,  darling. 
You'll  get  on,  wait  and  see.  If  I  got  on,  you 
will,  too." 

The  child  looked  up  at  Gino,  saw  a 
friend,  and  smiled.  Like  the  distant  view- 
ers in  the  television  audience,  she  could 
glimpse  Gino's  happiness  and  find  that,  in 
some  magical  way,  he  had  given  her  a  bit 
of  it  to  take  forever  as  her  own. 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED 

HIDES  PIMPLES  WHILE  IT  WORKS 

Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely  im- 
proved while  using  clearasil. 

Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil  actually 
starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the  oils 
that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  clearasil's  anti- 
septic action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria  that 
can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored  to 
hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless . . .  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 

America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication ...  because  clearasil  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED  to 
work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or  money 
back.  59^  and  98«S  at  all  druggists. 

Special  offer.  Send  15<  in  coins  or  stamps  for 
generous  trial  size  to  Eastco,  Inc.,  Box  12FN, 
White  Plains,  N.  Y.  Oflfer  expires  Nov.  30, 1955. 


We  need  part  time  subscription  agents  urgently.  We'll  pay  the  highest  commissions,  when 
you  help  us  take  orders  for  America's  most  popular  magazines.  It's  easy.  No  experience 
necessary.  We  supply  everything  you  need  FREE.  This  is  your  big  chance  to  earn  $40,  $50, 
$60  regularly,  in  spare  time.  Rush  your  name  and  address  today,  for  FREE  money-making 
information  to:  Macfadden  Publications,  205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 


Any 

Photo 

Copied 


Up  To  A  $10  PHOTO  STUDIO  VALUE  Only  $1 


BILLFOLD 
PHOTOS 


50  for  only  $2 


Sent  on 
Approval 

(Send  No 
Money) 


Double-Weight,  Silk  Finish,  Portrait 
Paper.  Each  (2V2X3V2  inch)  PHOTO 
is  beautifully  DECKLE  EDGED.  

TUST  to  get  acquainted  we  will  mate  you  these  NEW  artistic,  BILLFOLD  PHOTOGRAPHS  that  are  the  rage 
J  for  exchanging  with  school  mates,  as  gifts  and  enclosures  with  greeting  cards  or  in  correspondence.  SEND  NO 
MONEY,  just  enclose  your  favorite  snapshot  or  any  size  photo  for  20  or  50  BILLFOLD  (Wallet)  SIZE  PHOTOS 
(one  pose)  suitable  for  framing  and  keepsakes.  Used  by  thousands  of  students,  teachers,  job  seekers,  parents, 
movie  stars  and  others.  Original  returned  with  your  order.  Pay  postman  on  arrival  plus  a  few  cents  for  our  C.O.D. 
and  postage  or  enclose  the  money  and  we  prepay.  3-day  service.  Portrait  studio  quality  and  satisfaction  guaranteed. 
Please  send  within   15  days  to 

'~'""""^''^'*     Dept.  98,  211  W.  7th  St.,  DES  MOINES  2,  IOWA 


MOVYLAND    STUDIOS 


B£  YOURSELF  AGAIN ! 

RELAXi 

When  you  feel  nervous  and  "on-edge"  during 
the  day,  MILES  NERVINE  calms  you  .  .  . 
helps  you  feel  relaxed.  Taken  at  night,  MILES 
NERVINE  LETS  you  sleep;  doesn't  MAKE 
you  sleep!  That's  why  you  feel  fresher,  more 
rested  next  day.  Follow  the  label,  avoid  excessive 
use.  MILES  NERVINE  is  sold  at  aU  drug- 
stores, effervescent  tablets  and  liquid. 


?|j:v^i:n 


81 


(Continued  from  page  53) 
cook.  The  Statue  of  Liberty  holds  up  a 
light — but  Bud,  a  non-smoker,  never  even 
has  a  match  on  him.  While  Rockefeller 
Center  spreads  over  twelve  and  a  half 
acres,  Bud's  spread  is  negligible — he  hasn't 
gained  an  ounce  since  college  years.  Archi- 
tecturally speaking.  Bud  is  a  handsome 
edifice — but  that  alone  isn't  what  makes 
him  a  tourist  draw,  for  tourists  expect  to 
see  something  unusual.  Well,  Bud  has  that 
something  unusual — a  quality  which  is 
rare  in  television  and  radio.  Bud,  in  all  of 
his  years  as  an  emcee  and  quizmaster,  has 
maintained  a  feeling  of  gentility  with  no 
sacrifice  of  warmth  and  friendliness. 
People  like  the  lady  from  Ohio  are  always 
asking,  "Is  he  as  nice  off  the  air?" 

"It's  tough  to  talk  about  Bud,"  says  his 
wife  Marian.  "There  are  so  many  good 
things  to  be  said  about  him  that  he  sounds 
almost  goody-goody.  He's  a  fine  person — 
religious,  disciplined,  idealistic — but,  on  the 
other  hand,  he's  earthy  and  fiui  and  he 
has  a  great  sense  of  himior." 

But  Bud,  by  the  record  alone,  is  a  serious 
man  who  never  sluifs  off  responsibility. 
He  has  been  president  of  both  local  and 
national  AFTRA.  This  past  summer,  with- 
out being  asked,  his  name  was  placed  in 
nomination  for  first  national  vice-presi- 
dent of  the  television-radio  union  and  he 
was  elected  again.  He  is  extremely  active 
in  his  community.  Things  other  people 
talk  about  doing,  he  does.  He  has  given 
lay  sermons  at  churches  of  every  faith. 
He  has  captained  any  number  of  charity 
drives.  He  has  talked  for  or  before  com- 
munity clubs  as  often  as  two  or  three 
times  a  week.  He  has  even  addressed  the 
graduating  class  at  a  school  for  nurses. 

Bud  lives  in  Greenwich,  Connecticut,  in 
a  handsome  Norman  Tudor  house.  His  two 
acres  are  beautifully  landscaped  with 
flower  gardens  and  magnificent  trees.  But 
Bud's  home  is  no  more  impressive  than 
its   contents. 

JVlrs.  Collyer,  who,  as  an  actress,  gets 
billed  as  Marian  Shockley,  has  red  hair 
and  green  eyes.  She  is  as  pretty  as  she  is 
stubborn — and  Bud  says  she  is  as  stub- 
born as  a  Missouri  mule.  "Which  makes  a 
perfect  balance,"  he  adds,  "for  I  am  butt- 
headed." 

Marian  has  acted  in  daytime  radio 
dramas  for  many  years,  and  still  does.  She 
also  has  a  running  part  as  a  schoolteacher 
in  the  Charley  Ruggles  television  serial. 
The  World  Of  Mr.  Sweeney.  Ruggles  calls 
her  "Miss  Marian,"  and  she  says  of  Rug- 
gles, "He  is  so  good  and  so  dear  and  such 
a  wonderful  actor."  Marian  loves  her  pro- 
fessional work,  but  there's  also  plenty  to 
be  done  at  home,  in  running  the  huge 
house.  "It's  simple  mathematics,"  she  says. 
"The  bigger  the  home,  the  more  things 
there  are  to  go  wrong." 

Bud,  however,  has  never  had  a  chance 
to  prove  his  versatility  with  tools.  A  few 
years  back,  he  bought  tools  and  set  up 
shop  in  the  basement.  He  made  a  work 
bench — but  got  no  further.  He  left  home 
too  early,  got  home  too  late,  and  found  it 
impractical  to  build  a  bookcase  on  the 
commuters'  train.  At  present,  with  Feather 
Your  Nest  and  Beat  The  Clock,  Bud  works 
six  days  a  week,  leaves  home  before  nine 
and  returns  around  six-thirty — except  on 
Saturdays  when  he  gets  home  around 
ten.  But  that's  nothing  compared  with 
earlier  times.  Until  a  year  ago,  Bud's  sched- 
T  ule  was  so  demanding  that  he  seldom 
V  spent  more  than  one  night  out  of  every 
R  month  with  his  family — and  that  went  on 
for  four  years. 

When    asked    about    Bud,    during    those 
years,  Marian  would  tell  friends:    "I  think 
82. 


To  Love  Is  To  Share 


he's  all  right.  I  saw  him  on  television  last 
night  and  he  looked  well." 

Bud  himself,  not  wise-cracking,  com- 
mented: "I'm  afraid  I'll  get  home  early  one 
day  and  find  my  kids  are  adults  and  that 
I've  missed  all  the  fun  of  watching  them 
grow  up." 

During  those  years,  in  order  to  keep  up 
a  speaking  acquaintance  with  the  kids,  he 
would  get  up  at  six-thirty,  breakfast  with 
them  and  drive  them  to  school.  And,  of 
course,  on  the  one  full  night  a  month  he 
was  home,  he  got  the  celebrity  treatment. 

"When  his  schedule  changed  so  that  he 
was  coming  home  almost  every  evening — 
like  most  men — it  was  like  having  a 
stranger  in  the  house,"  Marian  recalls.  "We 
couldn't  get  used  to  it.  We  were  hovering 
over  him,  at  his  elbow  telling  him  stories, 
and  treating  him  like  a  long-lost  ex- 
plorer. That  lasted  about  two  weeks  .  .  . 
until,  one  evening,  I  decided  I'd  better  be- 
gin catching  up  on  my  chores." 

As  in  most  homes,  the  Collyer  children 
are  apt  to  dominate  the  scene.  Pat,  a  very 
pretty  blonde,  is  seventeen.  She  plays 
piano  so  well  that  she  gives  lessons.  Bud 
and  Marian  have  encouraged  her  to  play 
for  enjoyment.  Teaching  is  her  own  idea, 
and  she  is  saving  most  of  her  earnings. 
(Pat  and  Marian  hope  to  take  a  trip  abroad 
in  about  four  years.) 

Cynthia,  next  in  line,  and  another  pretty 
blonde,  clocks  in  at  fifteen  years.  She  has 
a  fine  sense  of  humor  and  likes  to  do 
creative  things  with  her  hands  like  paint- 
ing or  sculpturing.  Every  once  in  a  while, 
she  and  Marian  get  involved  with  Nature. 
Last  winter,  for  instance,  Marian  and 
Cynthia  fed  birds  and  collected  some 
rather  rare  ones. 

This  past  summer,  they  decided  to  raise 
strawberries  for  Bud.  Strawberries  delight 
Bud  the  way  a  big  jackpot  delights  a  con- 
testant, but  the  Collyers  found  their  new 
project  quite  an  undertaking.  "Our  house 
is  built  on  shelf  rock,  so  we  had  to  import 
soil  for  the  berries.  And  we  had  to  have 
beds  made  for  the  soil — pyramid-style 
out  of  aluminum  rings.  Then  the  birds 
were  stiU  around,  so  we  had  to  put 
chicken-wire  over  the  beds  to  protect  the 
berries.  We  have  some  huge,  very  old  oak 
trees  which  threw  too  much  shade  on  the 
berries — but  we  couldn't  do  anything 
about  that,   except  worry." 

It  set  Bud's  mouth  watering,  when  he 
saw  all  the  planning  and  loving  care  which 
went    into    the    strawberry    patch.      Then 


Don't  forget  to  vote! 

"Election  time"  is  coming  up — for  the 
ninth  annual  nationwide  poll  of  listeners 
and  viewers — to  choose  the 

Cold  Medal  Winners  of 

TV   RADIO  MIRROR 

Awards  for  19551956 

Get  your  ballots — along  with  intimate 
pictures  and  stories  of  many  of  your 
favorite  stars  and  programs — in  the 

December 
TV   RADIO   MIRROR 

at  your  newsstand   November  8 


came  the  harvest.  As  Marian  recalls,  "The 
strawberries,  at  full  growth,  were  about 
the  size  of  blueberries.  Cynthia  and  I 
were  so  embarrassed!  But  Bud  didn't  tease 
us  at  all." 

Youngest  of  the  Collyers  is  Mike.  At 
thirteen,  he  is  the  image  of  Bud.  You  can't 
tell  them  apart  in  pictures  taken  at  the 
same  age.  But  they  differ  in  personalities. 
"Bud"  Clayton  Collyer  has  always  been 
vigorous,  bright  and  imaginative.  Michael 
Clayton  Collyer  is  keen  and  fun  to  be 
around,  too.  But,  while  Bud  is  the  up-and- 
at-'em  type,  Mike  is  more  the  I'U-be-sit- 
ting-over-here-if-you-want-me  kind.  (And 
they  usually  come  looking  for  him,  too.) 

Bud,  however,  is  less  than  a  fireball  at 
home.  In  the  city,  he  is  a  slave  to  the 
clock  and  a  high-pressure  schedule.  At 
home,  he  is  happiest  when  there  are  no 
social  pressures  and  he  can  figuratively 
smash  the  clock.  The  only  concession  he 
makes  to  time  is  a  prompt  dinner,  for  the 
kids  are  always  starving  by  six-thirty. 
Then  everyone  takes  a  turn  saying  grace 
and  there  is  no  mumbling  nor  lazy  repeti- 
tion. Each  is  expected  to  have  something 
fresh  to  say. 

After  grace,  however,  bedlam  reigns.  As 
Marian  says,  "The  kids  always  have  so 
much  to  talk  about,  and  they  yak  together 
right  through  dinner.  They  like  to  pun, 
and  so  does  Bud,  and  the  worse  the  pun, 
the  punnier!  Bud  will  say,  'Want  to  go 
sailing  this  weekend?'  And  Mike  answers, 
'I'd  rudder  not.'  Then  maybe  Cynthia  says, 
'You'd  budder,  brudder.' " 

The  family  has  great  appetites.  Bud  eats 
a  big  juice-eggs-cereal-milk-coffee  break- 
fast. He  eats  a  limch  the  size  of  an  aver- 
age dinner — and  he  eats  enough  at  dinner 
time  for  two.  "Planning  meals  that  every- 
one will  like  is  impossible,"  says  Marian, 
"so  we  just  try  to  please  the  majority!" 

Most  evenings  find  Marian  and  Bud  at 
home,  reading,  watching  television,  help- 
ing the  kids  with  school  work.  Bud  is 
strong  in  languages  and  is  a  real  help  with 
French  and  Latin.  Marian  is  strong  in 
English  and  history. 

They  all  live  well  together  and  enjoy 
family  celebrations  of  anniversaries  and 
holidays.  Instead  of  parties,  the  Collyers 
like  to  honor  birthdays  by  going  en  masse 
to  the  theater.  Mike  is  the  one  exception — 
he  takes  his  parties  at  the  ball  park. 

Mike  is  an  avid  Dodger  fan.  Several 
years  ago.  Bud  met  Phil  Rizzuto.  Phil  in- 
vited Bud  to  bring  Mike  up  to  a  Yankee 
game  and  meet  the  players.  Bud  passed 
the  invitation  on  to  Mike.  "I  don't  want 
to  go,"  said  Mike.  "I  don't  go  to  see  any- 
one but  the  Dodgers."  So  Bud  had  the 
embarrassing  job  of  passing  the  message 
along  to  Rizzuto,  who  took  it  good-na- 
turedly. (Marian  balances  the  baseball 
scales  by  rooting  heartily  for  the  Giants.) 

Vacations,  too,  are  spent  as  a  family 
unit.  A  year  ago,  the  Collyers  went  to 
Europe  for  a  month.  The  year  before  that, 
they  toured  the  country  in  a  station 
wagon.  This  year,  the  month  of  August 
was  spent  quietly  in  the  Adirondack 
Mountains. 

"We — that's  me  and  the  kids — like  ex- 
citement," Marian  explains.  "Being  on  the 
move,  whether  it's  seeing  Europe  or  the 
United  States,  is  just  our  meat.  But  Bud 
wants  a  rest  after  eleven  months  in  the 
city.  This  year  we  decided  to  give  him 
the  rest  ...  no  rules— no  clock  to  watch- 
just  fishing  and  golf.  I  don't  expect  we'll 
give  him  the  chance  to  rest  again  for  a 
couple  more  years!" 

Bud  is  even  on  a  schedule  on  Sundays. 
As  Marian  observes.  "Religion  actualb' 
gives  him  a  lift,  the  kind  some  men  get  on 


the  fairway.  Bud  not  only  practices  re- 
ligion but  enjoys  it.  He  looks  forward  to 
his  Sunday  in  church  as  some  men  look 
forward   to  their   favorite   sport." 

Bud  is  superintendent  of  the  Sunday 
school  at  the  Presbyterian  Church,  and  he 
teaches  the  teen-aged  class.  "No  matter 
how  tired  he  is  Saturday  night,"  says 
Marian,  "he  stays  up  till  the  lesson  is 
prepared." 

After  Sunday  school,  he  goes  on  to 
church,  where  he  sings  in  the  choir.  Bud 
is  a  "utility"  singer — he  sings  with  the 
basses,  baritones  or  tenors,  depending  on 
where  he's  needed.  He  has  a  good  voice 
and  reads  music  at  sight.  (As  a  matter  of 
fact.  Bud  worked  his  way  through  col- 
lege, singing  and  leading  a  dance  band.) 

He  likes  to  preach,  and  has  given  lay 
sermons  at  Protestant  and  Jewish  churches 
in  New  England.  Recently,  he  made  a 
speech  at  an  inter-regional  meeting  of 
the  Council  of  Presbyterian  Men.  There 
were  several  celebrated  preachers  at  the 
meeting,  and  Marian  notes  proudly  that 
strangers  came  up  to  her  to  confide  that 
they  had  found  Bud  to  be  the  "most  in- 
spirational." For  months  afterwards,  he 
got  letters  and  telegrams  from  distant 
parts  of  the  country  asking  if  he  would 
speak  to  local  congregations. 

As  a  preacher,  Bud  is  no  fire-eater.  He 
talks  quietly,  logically  and  down-to-earth. 
He  never  writes  out  his  sermons  and  sel- 
dom plans  them.  Sometimes,  he  gets  car- 
ried away  with  himself.  .  .  .  There  was 
the  Sunday  that  he  was  preaching  in  his 
own  church  and  thought  he  was  making 
his  point  pretty  well — when  he  heard  a 
rather  weary  sigh  from  a  member  of  the 
congregation.  He  even  recognized  the  sigh. 
It  belonged  to  Michael  Clayton  CoUyer. 
■  "I  figured  I'd  better  wind  it  up  pretty 
fast,"  Bud  grins,  "which  was  what  I  did!" 

After  church,  the  family  has  a  big  Sun- 
day dinner.  Bud  then  catches  a  nap  be- 
fore going  out  to  catch  ball  with  Mike. 
The  day  winds  up  with  Marian  usually 
making  waffles.  "Mike  gave  me  the  waf- 
fler,"  she  says.  "He  also  gave  me  an  elec- 
tric coffee  pot.  He  likes  to  give  me  things 
that  he  can  watch  being  used." 

The   Colly ers  love  gifts  in  quantity.  At 
Christmas,  their  home  looks  like  the  set- 
ting for  a  TV  spectacular.  The  living  room 
has  a   twenty-foot   ceiling  and   they  have 
a  tree  that  fairly  tickles  the  ceiling.  Gifts 
J.  don't  pile  quite  so  high,  but  they  all  like 
surprises    and    lots    of    gay    packages. 
,      Bud's  most  memorable  Christmas  came 
1 1  along  a  couple  of  years  ago.  He  was  work- 
ing hard  and  late  almost  every  night.  He 
missed  being  with  the  children,  so  Marian 
hit  on  the  idea  of  having  portraits  painted 
of  them  for  Christmas.  They  began  posing 
in  September  and  everyone  was  coopera- 
tive— and,  best  of  all,  maintained  secrecy. 

Christmas  morning,  when  the  kids  had 
opened  all  of  their  gifts,  Bud  was  asked 
to  step  into  the  kitchen  for  a  moment. 
"Now  what  do  I  have  to  go  out  for?"  he 
asked.  But  they  chased  him  out. 

When  he  came  back,  the  children,  still 
in  their  pajamas,  were  stcinding  quietly, 
each  behind  the  individual  portraits.  Bud 
was  so  moved  he  couldn't  say  a  word. 
"Nights  after  that,  when  he  got  in  late, 
he'd  just  sit  down  and  look  at  the  pic- 
tures  for  a  while,"  Marian  recalls. 

Bud's  feeling  for  children  has  always 
been  obvioios  to  radio  and  television  audi- 
ences. It  isn't  strange  that  mothers  and 
fathers,  as  well  as  the  children,  want  to 
visit  with  him  when  they  get  to  New 
York.  Bud's  gentility — his  kind  of  warmth 
ind  friendliness — has  made  him  something 
Df  an  institution.  So  it  isn't  strange,  either, 
hat  a  little  boy,  whose  mother  was  shop- 
ping for  a  new  television  set,  begged: 
Get    one   with   Bud    CoUyer    on    it." 


What  a 

thrilling 

difference 


« .  s       V  - 


.WHEN  YOU  REVEAL  THE  HIDDEN  BEAUTY  IN  YOUR  HAIR! 


NESTLE  COLORINSE  transforms  dull 

drab  hair  into  glamorous  new  beauty. 

It  sparkles  your  natural  hair  shade 

with  gleaming  color-highlights  .  .  . 

silken  lustre  .  .  .  alluring  softness. 

Colorinse  is  a  "must"  after  every 

shampoo!    It's  wonderfully  simple  to 

use  .  .  .  rinses  in  —  shampoos  out. 

12  exciting  shades.  25f,  50C. 


NESTLE  COLORTINT  intensifies  your 
natural  hair  shade  with  deeper, 
longer-lasting   color.   Or,  it  will  add 
glorious  new  color  that  cleverly  blends 
tell-tale  gray,  streaked  or  faded  hair 
to  rich,  even  tones  and  youthful  new 
beauty.   Lanolin-rich   Colortint  is  more 
than  a  rinse  but  not  a  permanent  dye! 
10  enchanting  shades.  29?;,  50?. 


r^^^'i^' 


One  of  these  is  just  right  for  you! 


COLORINSE- COLORTINT 

Professional  opplicatlons  of  Colorinse  and  Colortint  are  also  available  at  your  beauty  shop 


THE  GIFT  TIE  THAT   "CURLS 


Get  these  two  "HOW- 
TO-DO-IT"  Booklets 

Buy  the  King-Size  Spool  and 
make  Bows  for  every  occasion 
Tells  you  how  to  tie  dozens  of 
bows  and  special  effects 
Tells  how  to  make  a  variety  of 
expensive-looking  gifts  with 
Crinkle-Tie 


^fci^^^wawA^^:^  ^  0  ^  ^ 


CRINKLE.TIE 

2300  Logan  Blvd.,  Chicago  47,  III. 
(    )  Send  me  booklet  on  tying  beautiful  bows. 
(    )  Send  me  Ciinkle-Tie  Craft  Booklet 
I  enclose  10c  in  coin  for  each  booklet. 


. . .  nWtefore  a  bra  like  this 
at  any  kic^! 


nobody 
but  nobody 
but  Stardust 

has  this  new 
patented  uplift 
principle  for  more 
beauty,  greater 
comfort!  TWO 
separate  elastic 
layers*  asure  full 
action-freedom;  no 
shifting  or  slipping! 
Lined  for  double 
uplift  and  chafe- 
protection.  Pre- 
shrunk  cotton, 
all  sizes. 
Only  $100        , 


•patent  Pending. 
Design  Patent  Pending 


Stardust 

%  GUARAHTHD  FOR  1  YIAR^** 


action-ease 

UP-OR-DOWN 

AND  SIDE-TO-SIDE... 

AT  THE  SAME  TliME! 

write  foT  nearest  store: 

SfARDUSTINC, 

EMPIRE  STATE  BtOG.,  N.  Y.  1 


83 


a  world  of 

ENTERTAINMENT! 

GARBO  to  MONROE 
BING  to  GARY  CROSBY 
BENNY  to  GOBEL 
TUCKER  to  CLOONEY 


STARLAND 


0»VT  CHOCKOT 
MAX  OF  THE  MOMENT 


STARLAND 

AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 

Picture -packed,  star-studded  STAR- 
LAND  takes  you  into  the  Show  Busi- 
ness World— MOVIES.  TV.  RADIO 
and  RECORDS 

158  Biographies,  274  Intimate  Pic- 
tures, 174  Stories  of  Your  Favorites, 
Latest  News  Events  in  the  Show  Busi- 
ness World 

YOU'LL  SEE  STARS! 

Harry  Belofonte  Judy  Holliday 

Joye  P.  Morgan  Humphrey    Bogart 

Clark  Gable  Eartha  Kitt 

Mary  Martin  Eddie  Arnold 

Sammy  Davis  Jr.  Sheree  North 

If  STARLAND  is  not  available  at 
your  newsstand,  please  mail  this 
coupon  and  50< 

,- MAIL  COUPON  TODAY ■> 

STARLAND  TVRM-1155 

205  E.  42nel  St..  New  York  17,   N.  Y. 

Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  STARLAND. 
I  enclose  50c. 


84 


Name. 


Plooao  Print 


Addreii 

City State. 


Double  Life  in  Big  Town 


(Continued  jroTn  -page  54) 
TV    show    a    week    and    beef    about    how 
tough  it  is.   They're  suffering  from   'lead' 
poisoning — if  you  know  what  I  mean!" 

A  tireless  taskmaster  Mark  is,  but  he's 
also  well  aware  that  there's  more  to  life 
than  batting  his  brains  out  in  a  studio.  To 
this  end,  he's  enhanced  the  picture  of  ful- 
fillment by  marrying  Annelle  Hayes,  a 
Texas  beauty  who  is  the  mother  of  Mark 
Richard,  eight,  and  Arrelle  Elizabeth, 
three.  The  unorthodox  patterns  of  their 
domestic  life  would  devastate  most  house- 
holds, and  constant  re-adjustment  does 
produce  pain  at  odd  intervals.  Fortu- 
nately for  all  parties  concerned,  they  man- 
age to  remember  that  all  these  activities 
are  not  without  purpose. 

"When  we  got  married  ten  years  ago," 
Mark  explains,  "I  didn't  even  have  a  job. 
Annelle  was  still  living  at  the  Hollywood 
Studio  Club  and  I  had  a  furnished  room. 
With  no  immediate  prospects  in  mind,  I 
still  insisted  that  I'd  head  my  own  studio 
before  I  was  finished  with  Hollywood. 
Annelle  had  faith  in  me — but  everyone 
else  thought  I  was  crazy! 

"Today  I  am  thirty-two  and,  when  I  am 
forty-two,  I  shall  retire.  Maybe  this 
sounds  a  bit  balmy,  too — but  I  believe  I'll 
have  my  own  studio  by  then.  With  an 
excellent  income  derived  from  renting 
space  to  independent  producers,  plus  an- 
nuities and  investments,  we'll  be  able  to 
make  up  for  some  of  the  things  we  have 
had  to  sacrifice.  Eventually,  I  hope  to 
stop  acting  entirely,  but  of  course  I  could 
never  remain  completely  idle." 

In  the  meantime,  however,  Mark  ex- 
pects his  double  life  to  remain  hectic, 
harassed — and  hopeful!  In  Beverly  Hills, 
the  Stevens  family  still  lives  in  the  nine- 
room  Georgian  Colonial  house  Mark 
bought  while  chafing  his  ambitions  at  20th 
Century-Fox.  Their  manner  of  furnish- 
ing and  redecorating  has  been  sporadic, 
but  the  house  reflects  the  growth  in  char- 
acter  and   individuality   of   its   occupants. 

Kecause  of  Mark's  unpredictable  sched- 
ule, the  unexpected  is  always  the  expected 
on  each  workday.  Therefore   it's  routine. 

"The  children  get  first  consideration,  of 
course,"  Annelle  observes.  "They  eat,  sleep, 
and  go  to  school — regularly.  But  Mark  and 
I  may  have  a  sit-down  dinner  at  seven 
one  evening,  then  something  on  a  tray  at 
midnight  the  next.  Sometimes  Mark  works 
straight  through  without  eating  at  all.  On 
Sundays,  if  he's  home,  he  does  paper  work. 

"We  rarely  accept  invitations,  because 
invariably  we  have  to  cancel  when  Mark 
stays  at  the  studio  to  see  rushes.  A  few 
of  our  friends  humorously  insist:  'You're 
expected — but  we  won't  set  a  place  for 
you!'  On  the  rare  occasions  when  we  our- 
selves entertain  the  Tony  Martins,  the 
John  Irelands,  Ann  Sothern,  Cesar  Ro- 
mero, my  husband  invariably  gets  delayed 
and  someone  quips:  'It's  such  a  nice  din- 
ner party — you  should  have  invited  Mark 
Stevens!' " 

Under  Annelle's  sagacious  supervision, 
a  believe-it-or-not  couple  named  Hollis 
and  Ann  meet  every  domestic  crisis  with 
devotion.  They  adore  their  bosses  and  their 
job,  and  their  love  for  the  children  is 
downright  fanatical!  "God  has  blessed  us 
by  bringing  these  wonderful  children  into 
our  lives."  Ann,  a  handsome,  robust 
woman,  beams  with  pride  when  she  says 
it.  She's  happiest  baking  them  bread,  dec- 
orating home-made  cookies  and  dispensing 
homey,  heart-warming  philosophy. 

"Because  I  make  so  many  New  York 
trips  to  see  my  sponsors,"  Mark  adds,  "I 
keep  an  apartment  there.  Sometimes  Ann- 
elle accompanies  me,  which  is  a  signal  for 


great  rejoicing  in  the  Stevens'  California 
kitchen!  Then  Hollis  and  Ann  have  the 
children  all  to  themselves  and  they  don't 
mind  working  Saturdays,  or  forfeiting 
their  day  off.  Hollis  takes  Mark  Richard 
to  Sunday  school,  to  the  park  or  movies. 
Ann  reads  to  Arrelle  and  sings  charming 
Czech  folk  songs.  When  the  children  were 
born,  a  nurse  accompanied  Annelle  home 
from  the  hospital.  And  Ann  actually  felt 
slighted  until  we  got  the  nurse  out  of  the 
house  and  she  could  take  over  her  duties!" 
From  Monday  through  Saturday,  Mark 
arises  at  six.  At  seven  forty-five,  he  ar- 
rives at  the  studios  where  Big  Town  is 
made.  Mark  Richard,  who  worships  his 
"Pop,"  gets  up  at  the  same  time  (two 
hours  too  early  for  him!)  and  takes  his 
clothes  into  Mark's  bathroom.  After  their 
shower,  they  talk  man  to  man  while  Mark 
shaves.  Following  breakfast  together, 
Mark  leaves  for  the  studio.  And  that's 
when  sonny  awakens  his  mommy  to  ask 
her  to  "please  play  with  me  until  it's  time 
for  school!" 

When  Mark  and  Annelle  married,  they 
agreed  that  she'd  name  the  boys  and  he'd 
name  the  girls.  So  "Arrelle"  is  Mark's  own 
invention,  though  her  actual  arrival  posed 
a  problem.  Mark  had  told  everyone  he  was 
going  to  father  a  blue-eyed  little  girl  with 
thick  golden  curls.  Arrelle  was  ushered 
into  the  world — balder  than  the  proverbial 
billiard  ball! 

Shortly  after  his  daughter's  birth,  Mark 
appeared  on  the  New  York  stage  in  "Mid- 
summer," then  portrayed  Martin  Kane 
every  week  for  a  year  on  live  television. 
Nearly  two  years  expired  before  he  re- 
turned home  again.  Arrelle's  fine-spun 
hair  was  slightly  in  evidence  at  this  point, 
but,  by  now,  Mark  was  a  stranger  called 
"Daddy"  and  she  could  only  stare  at  him. 

"I'm  not  going  to  bribe  her  to  win  her 
over,"  declared  Mark,  with  typical  mascu- 
line indifference.  Secretly,  he  was  dis- 
turbed, but  Annelle  knew  that  time  would 
remedy  the  situation. 

"Whenever  Mark  walked  into  the  house," 
she  recalls,  "his  son  leaped  on  him  with 
a  running  jump  and  all  but  smothered 
him.  But  his  daughter  just  stood  there 
and  stared  with  those  amazing  wide  blue 
eyes  that  seem  to  look  beyond  everything. 
Finally  it  happened.  One  evening  Mark 
Richard  greeted  his  father  in  customary 
fashion.  Arrelle  hesitated  and  then  sud- 
denly threw  herself  into  her  father's  arms, 
showering  him  with  kisses.  The  probation 
period  was  over.  We  felt  like  a  family 
again!" 

There  are  three  TV  sets  in  the  Mark 
Stevens  household,  and  he'll  tell  you,  with 
an  amused  grin,  that  his  children's  favor- 
ite programs  are — Beany  and  Annie  Oak- 
ley. It's  late  at  night  when  Big  Town  hits 
the  West  Coast.  But,  when  one  of  Mark's 
shows  is  especially  instructive  for  children, 
Annelle  takes  them  to  the  studio  on  Sat- 
urday and  Mark  runs  ofE  the  film  in  the 
projection  room. 

A  single  Big  Town  series  of  thirty-nine 
films  takes  six  months  to  shoot.  Balancing 
out  the  year's  activities,  Mark's  extra- 
curricular interests  include  preparing  a 
night-club  act  for  New  York  and  Las 
Vegas,  singing  lessons  and  recording  ses- 
sions. His  own  Mark  Stevens  Productions 
was  formed  recently,  for  filming  full- 
length  movies  and  TV  features. 

"Everyone  keeps  telling  me  it's  impos- 
sible to  do  more  than  one  job  at  a  time 
and  do  it  well,"  Mark  muses,  "and  one 
big  Hollywood  director  even  said  he'd 
seen  geniuses  come  and  go  because  they 
attempted  to  carry  the  ball  alone.  Well,  I 
don't  consider  myself  a  genius,  but  I  be- 


lieve    anything    is    possible,    especially    if 
one  is  well  organized. 

"For  example,  I  have  a  great  set  crew 
from  nine  until  six.  Because  they  have  my 
word  we'll  never  work  a  minute  over- 
time, they  knock  themselves  out  for  me. 
Eldward  Rissien,  who  was  stage  manager 
for  'Midsummer,'  has  been  my  invaluable 
assistant.  In  Stanley  Silverman,  a  writer 
with  many  excellent  credits,  I  found  a  top 
story  editor.  Then  there's  a  promotional 
manager  for  my  personal  interests  and  a 
pubUcity  man  who  concentrates  on  getting 
me  less  space  and  better  representation." 

Until  recently  Mark  had  a  beautiful 
secretary  whose  name — believe  it  or  not — 
was  Jackie  Gleason.  Any  similarity  be- 
tween her  and  the  one-and-only  was  more 
than  coincidental.  It  was  practically  im- 
possible! However,  to  circumvent  the 
obvious  comparisons,  Mark  laconically 
labeled  the  lady  "Jake." 

How  Jake  got  to  earn  her  cakes  proves 
it  can  happen  here.  To  help  kill  time  one 
day,  she  accompanied  an  actress-friend  on 
a  job-hunting  tour  of  the  studios.  Mark 
happened  to  walk  into  the  casting  office 
and  saw  her  sitting   there   waiting. 

"Do  you  want  to  go  to  work?"  he  in- 
quired, after  introducing  himself.  Jake 
assured  him  work  was  what  she  needed. 

"Good,"  replied  Mark,  "you're  just  the 
type  we  need  for  our  new  script." 

"Oh — I  don't  want  to  be  an  actress!" 
These  were  the  next  words  that  reached 
Mark's  astonished  ears.  "I'm  a  secretary. 
Don't  you  have  anything  open  in  that 
capacity?"  The  following  morning,  Jake 
was  on  the  job,  and  she  officiated  most 
efficiently  in  Mark's  six-room  bungalow 
office  until  marriage  and  approaching 
motherhood  called  her  away. 

Although  Mark  is  an  ardent  tennis  en- 
thusiast, a  model-boat  builder  (it  took 
him  fifty-odd  hours  to  assemble  a  replica 
of  the  schooner  Blue  Nosel)  and  a  good 
golfer,  his  greatest  moments  of  relaxation 
occur  around  eight  o'clock  at  night. 

"Everyone  has  gone  home  and  studio 
life  has  disappeared,"  he  reflects.  "This  is 
a  wonderful  time  for  me.  I  can  walk 
around  the  lot  undisturbed  and  the  still- 
ness helps  me  to  think — or  to  stop  think- 
ing.  This  is   when   I   get  my   best   ideas." 

But,  because  such  times  exclude  com- 
Pcinionship  with  his  loved  ones,  Mark  is 
building  a  house  opposite  the  sixteenth 
hole  at  the  Tamarisk  Country  Club  in 
Pahn  Springs.  At  least  on  rare  occasions 
they  can  all  be  together  undisturbed  and 
revel  in  domestic  unity.  Despite  Mark's 
protestations,  Annelle  worries  about  his 
health,  so  she  recently  induced  him  to 
have  another  physical  check-up. 

"I  was  in  such  perfect  condition,"  says 
Mark  humorously,  "the  New  York  Life 
gave  me  a  policy  for  $400,000— which,  all 
told,  now  gives  me  $700,000  worth  of  in- 
surance. I'm  worth  more  dead  than  alive!" 

As  far  back  as  his  stock-acting  days  in 
Cleveland,  Ohio — where  he  was  bom — 
Mark's   been  driven  by  nervous   energy. 

"It's  something  inside  of  me  I  can't 
control,"  he  confesses,  "and,  without  con- 
stant activity  of  some  sort,  I'm  sure  I 
couldn't  survive.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  peo- 
ple everywhere  invariably  get  around  to 
asking  the  same  question.  Why  do  I  de- 
liberately try  to  kill  myself?  This  is  an 
exaggeration,  of  course.  But  my  answer 
is  always  the  same.  Take  it  or  leave  it, 
this  is  my  way  of  life." 

INVEST  IN 

U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 

NOW  EVEN  BETTER 

1  •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


/ 


ANiAZm 
miNJIOH 
FLAUm 
ABDOMEN  UP  10 

Just  step  In.  Adjust  right  panel 
then  left.  Your  tummy  appearance 
will  shrink  up  to  4  inches  Instantly! 
No  attachments.  No  binding  rein- 
forcements. A  new  Amazing  inven- 
tion. Really  gives  a  youthful  figure!. 

The  Principle  of  the  Compreso 
Belt*.  The  double  extra  front  flat- 
tening and  supporting  panels  per- 
mit sliding  adjustment  comfortable 
to  you.  Utmost  snugness  when  re- 
quired and  relaxed  support  at  other  V|,,gT.M.  u 

J 


figure  stfittrnm) 
tummy  Sii|>|orted 

want  nipped 


WARD  GREEN  CO.,  43  W.  61  St.,  N.Y.  23  Dept.  K841  , 
I've  Indicated  my   selection.    Send   for   lO-Day   Freew 
Triol:  Z 

D  Compreso-Belt   (Reg.)      Waist Hip $3.98i| 

D  Compreso-Belt    (Ponty)    Woiil Hip $4.98| 

□   Payment  Enclosed.  Word  Green  pay«  postage.      | 

Extra  crotch  .  .  .  JOc;  5  for  $2  n 

Q  Send  C.O.D.   Ill  pay  postman  plus  chorges.   Re-B 

fund  of  purchase  price  guaranteed.  ^ 

I  NAME  : ■ 

j'  ADDRESS a 

•  CITY ZONE STATE ■ 


FOR  THOSE  "VERY  SPECIAL"  PEOPLE  Or<  YOUR  LIST 
Quality  portrait-photo- 
graphs from  your  own  photo, 
snapshot  or  negative. 
Minimum  order  $1.00 
plus  10^  shipping. 
Free  Friendship  Folio  with 

g^— ,^  n..«To«««nii  I  J2.00  order.  Quick  service 

2S  WALLET  PHOTOS 51I1I1  ■  1  money  baclt  guarantee. 
SS  FOR  $2.00    PLUS  Mti  SHIPPINS 

Friendship  Photos,  Oept.23-F  Quincy  69,  Mass. 


^  photos 


WOMEN! 


FOR  YOU! 


Make  all  the  extra  money 
you  want  in  spare  time,  plus 
lovely  dresses  for  your  per- 
sonal use.  Take  orders  for 
beautiful   Fashion 
Frocks,  low  as  $3.98 
fe      each.  We  furnish  over 
I    %      100  styles,  colors,  f ab- 
I    %    J  rics.    You    risk 
I     %    *  nothing.  No  experi- 
I     %  %  ence  needed.  Try  it 
I      \       —  write  for  free 
%  fabric  samples. 

FASHION  FROCKS 

Dept.  T-5053  •  Cincinnati  25,  Oliio 


Add  COLOR  To  Your  TV! 

New  Multichrome  television  screen  filter  adds 
color  to  any  set.  AttacLi  in  seconds.  Instantly, 
vivid  color  takes  the  place  of  drab  black  and 
white.  Glare  and  eyestrain  are  eliminated. 
Guaranteed.  Now  only  $1.98.  Send  now.  Spec- 
ify screen  size. 

HOLMES  COMPANY,  Dept.   B 

Box  581  Hollywood  28.  Calif. 


Be  Your  Own 
MUSIC  Teacher 

PLAY  ANY  INSTRUMENT 

LEARN  AT  HOME  THIS  QUICK  MONEY-SAVING  WAY 

Simple  as  A-B-C.  Your  lessons  consist  of  real  selections, 
instead  of  tiresome  exercises.  You  read  real  notes — no 
"numbers"  or  trick  music.  Some  of  our  900,000  students 
are  band  LEADERS.  Everything  is  in  print  and  pictures. 
First  you  are  told  what  to  do.  Then  a  picture  shows  you 
how.  Then  you  play  it  yourself  and  hear  how  it  sounds. 
Soon  you  are    playing:  your  favorite  music. 

STOP  CHEATING  YOURSELF  OF  THESE  JOYS! 

Popularity!  New  friends.  Gay  parties.  Good  times. 
Career.  Extra  Money.  Understand,  appreciate  and  converse 
about  music.  Learn  lives  and  compositions  of  modem  and 
gTeat  masters  .  .  .  Relax!  Banish  worries  and  frustrations. 
Satisfy  self-expression,  creative  urge.   Gain  self-confidence. 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


Mail  coupon  for  Free  36-page  illus- 
trated book.  Mention  your  favorite  in- 
.strument.  U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC, 
Studio  A201t,  Port  Washington,  Mew  York. 

r ^— — — — 

U.    S.    SCHOOL    OF    MUSIC.    Studio   A2011 

Port    Washington.    N.    Y. 

Please    send   me  your  FREE   36-page   illustrated  book. 

I   would   like  to  play   (Name  Instrument). 


(Print  Name) 


85 


Lovely,  Lovely  Secret 


(Continued  from  page  32) 
who  knows  exactly  what  it  is  she  wants 
from  life.  The  next  moment,  the  irre- 
pressible high  spirits  of  a  little  girl  who 
isn't  sure  what  she  wants,  but  does  know 
exactly  how  to  go  about  getting  it.  Now- 
adays, one  could  imagine  this  high-pow- 
ered charmer  tossing  that  banana  cream 
pie  out  of  pure  devilment — but  never, 
never  eating  it. 

"What's  happened  to  me?"  Patti  toys 
with  the  question.  "Well,  I've  lost  a  lot 
of  weight,  for  one  thing — thirty  pounds  in 
the  last  year." 

The  answer,  of  course,  is  as  tinsatisfac- 
tory  as  her  arithmetic.  Last  July,  when 
she  returned  to  television  to  star  in  The 
Patti  Page  Show  for  Oldsmobile,  she  had 
reduced  from  a  hundred-and-forty-seven 
pounds  to  a  svelte  hundred-and-fifteen. 
But  this  is  nothing  new  for  Patti.  Like  a 
champion  training  for  the  big  fight,  she  al- 
ways streamlines  her  figure  for  television. 
She  is  no  slimmer  now  than  she  was  in 
the  summer  of  1954,  when  she  replaced 
Perry  Como,  or  the  following  year,  when 
she  did  The  Scott  Music  Hall. 

The  present  series,  however,  is  for 
fifty-two  weeks — her  longest  run  on  tele- 
vision. Now  nearing  the  half-way  mark, 
Patti  has  not  once  gone  over  a  hundred- 
and-fifteen  .  .  .  which  means  that  she  not 
only  had  the  will  power  to  "stop  eating" 
and  lose  those  original  thirty-two  pounds, 
but  she  has  found  some  new  incentive 
that  keeps  them  lost  forever. 

What  is  it? 

"Well,  it  seems  there's  a  very  nice 
young  man,"  Patti  says,  and  she  says  it 
straight.  "He  made  me  realize  how  im- 
portant appearance  is  in  this  business  and 
— well,  maybe  I'm  just  trying  to  make  him 
proud  of  me." 

And  then  she  smiles,  making  it  all  crys- 
tal clear.  If  Patti  looks  like  the  girl  in  a 
Before-and-After  ad,  it's  because  she  has 
truly  discovered  the  new  miracle  product. 
Only,  it  isn't  so  new.  In  fact,  it's  the 
oldest  in  the  world.  And  they  still  call  it 
Love.  .  .  . 

Before,  long  before  Patti  Page  met 
Charles  O'Curran,  she  was  Clara  Ann  Fow- 
ler of  Claremore,  Oklahoma — practically 
the  original  girl-next-door.  Except,  of 
course,  that  no  other  girl  who  ever  lived 
next  door  to  anybody  ever  had  quite  her 
way  with  a  song,  and  it  was  only  a  question 
of  time  until  someone  would  "discover" 
her. 

It  happened  at  a  local  radio  station  in 


near-by  Tulsa — all  in  the  best  show-busi- 
ness tradition.  The  female  vocalist  on  one 
of  the  station's  regular  programs  took  sick, 
and  Clara  Ann  was  called  in  as  a  last- 
minute  substitute.  The  show's  sponsor 
not  only  kept  her  on  but  changed  her 
name   to   Patti — the   Page   Milk    Company 

girl.  ,    , 

That  was  nine  years  ago,  and  that  was 
how  Jack  Rael  happened  to  hear  her.  He 
was  a  band  manager,  passing  through 
Tulsa,  and  there  was  a  radio  in  his  hotel 
room.  Switching  it  on,  he  heard  Patti 
sing.  No,  it  wasn't  a  recording,  he  re- 
alized, but  it  should  have  been.  Rushing 
down  to  the  broadcasting  station,  he  signed 
her  up.  And  he  has  been  her  manager - 
partner  ever  since. 

But,  before  Patti  could  become  a  record- 
ing star,  her  name  had  to  stand  for  more 
than  just  milk.  The  first  two  years,  she 
and  Jack  toured  the  small  towns,  doing 
one-night  stands,  getting  the  necessary 
experience  in  night  clubs  and  small  thea- 
ters. Then,  in  Chicago,  Patti  broke  into 
network  radio  as  vocalist  for  Don  McNeill's 
Breakfast  Cluh.  In  the  field  of  recordings, 
however,  it  wasn't  until  she  had  made 
thirteen  Mercury  releases  that  she  finally 
came  up  with  a  hit — "Confess." 

Then  it  happened!  Personal  appear- 
ances in  every  state  of  the  Union,  Canada 
and  Hawaii.  Guests  spots  with  Ed  Sullivan 
and  Perry  Como  that  led  to  her  own  TV 
shows.  And  a  long  list  of  hit  records,  many 
selling  over  the  million  mark — one,  "Ten- 
nessee Waltz,"  selling  over  three  million 
to  become  the  most  popular  recording  in 
twenty  years. 

And  so  the  girl-next-door  from  Clare- 
more,  Oklahoma,  moved  to  a  luxurious 
apartment  in  Manhattan.  It's  a  combina- 
tion of  French  provincial  and  modern — all 
blues  and  whites  to  give  it  that  "Frenchy" 
look — and  designed  to  give  "the  feeling  of 
a  country  house  that  got  lost  in  the  city." 

"It's  bright  and  gay,  and  see,"  Patti 
points  out,  "it  has  a  terrace.  Somehow,  it's 
always  new  when  I  walk  in  at  night. 
Nothing  morbid!" 

But  it  takes  more  than  color  to  keep  an 
apartment  bright  and  gay.  Although  it's  a 
dream  of  heaven  for  a  girl  who  once  shared 
a  bed  with  two  sisters — five  whole  rooms, 
all  to  one's  self! — after  a  while,  it  can 
seem  like  an  awful  lot  of  space  for  just 
one  person. 

Not  that  Patti  was  ever  lonely.  There 
was  always  "the  family."  They  had  started 
as   business   associates — her   manager,   the 


\'«'» 


An  open  letter  to: 


OUR  READERS 


OUR  ADVERTISERS 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR  Magazine  is  proud  to  be  a  member  of  the  Audit  Bureau  of  Circu- 
lations, a  cooperative,  non-profit  association  of  3670  buyers  and  sellers  of  publication 
advertising  which,  this  month,  celebrates  its  forty-first  year  of  service  to  our  readers  and 
advertisers. 

The  Audit  Bureau  of  Circulations  contributes  to  your  enjoyment  and  our  betterment  of 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR.  The  ABC  figures  give  us  a  guide  to  the  type  of  material  you  prefer — 
thus  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  con  bring  you  v^hat  you  want  to  read,  when  you  want  to  read  it. 

The  Audit  Bureau  of  Circulations  also  makes  it  possible  for  us  to  measure  our  cir- 
culation growth,  providing  our  advertisers  with  a  clear  picture  of  TV  RADIO  MIRROR's 
tremendous  audience.  By  studying  our  circulation  figures,  the  advertiser  can  know  that  he  is 
delivering  a  message  to  you  through  TV  RADIO  MIRROR's  pages — a  message  which  helps 
you  select  the  products  you  want  to  buy;  a  message  which,  in  turn,  will  have  been  profitable 
for  the  advertiser  to  tell. 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR  joins  the  other  3670  Audit  Bureau  of  Circulations  members  in 
saluting  this  forty-first  onniversory  of  self-regulation — signifying  fairness  and  honorable 
dealing — of  our   publishing    industry. 

The  Editors 


musicians,  publicists,  secretaries  and  maid. 
But,  after  traveling  around  the  country, 
sharing  experiences,  working  together  to 
climb  the  same  ladder  of  success,  they 
soon  became  close  friends.  Even  during 
their  off  hours,  they  like  to  be  together — 
golfing,  fishing  and  playing  cards  (bridge 
and  hearts  are  Patti's  favorites).  When 
Patti  suddenly  decided  to  get  a  boat,  it 
ended  up  a  thirty -four- foot  yacht.  Noth- 
ing else  was  big  enough  to  accommodate 
the  whole  "family." 

As  for  Patti's  real  family,  she  is  still 
devoted  to  them,  visiting  Oklahoma  when- 
ever she  can,  entertaining  her  parents  on 
visits  to  New  York.  But  Patti  comes  from 
a  family  of  eight  girls  and  three  boys,  and 
the  big  news  among  the  Fowlers  is  not  her 
career — it's  the  nephews  and  nieces  her 
brothers  and  sisters  come  up  with.  "I  have 
twenty-five  now,"  Patti  announces  proud- 
ly, "and  soon  I'll  be  a  great-aunt." 

She  says  it  wistfully,  however,  as  though 
she  could  also  be  a  great  mother.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  in  a  TV  Radio  Mirror  inter- 
view last  year,  Patti  confessed:  "I  want 
five  babies.  I've  always  wanted  to  be  mar- 
ried. The  right  man  just  hasn't  come 
along  yet." 

Until  he  did,  there  was  her  career.  There 
was  even  "love,"  for  there  were  her 
fans.  Real  fans!  In  addition  to  the  mil- 
lions who  buy  her  records,  watch  her  on 
TV,  and  write  in  for  pictures,  there  are 
more  than  twelve  hundred  organized  Patti 
Page  Fan  Clubs. 

They  spend  hours  writing  to  her,  send 
her  presents,  and  badger  disc  jockeys 
who  don't  play  enough  Patti  Page  record- 
ings to  suit  them.  She,  in  turn,  takes  their 
problems  very  seriously — helping  them 
when  she  can,  visiting  their  clubs  and 
entertaining  individual  fans  in  her  home. 
But  fans  are  the  public.  They  can  look 
up  to  her  and  love  from  afar,  but  whom 
is  Patty  to  look  up  to?  And  what  good 
is  love  that  only  comes  from  afar?  .  .  . 

Last  winter,  when  she  was  getting  ready 
to  start  on  another  personal  appearance 
tour,  Patti  engaged  one  of  the  top  direc- 
tors in  the  business  to  help  stage  her  act. 
It  was  Charles  O'Curran.  If  the  name 
sounds  familiar,  it's  because  he  was  once 
the  husband  of  Betty  Hutton.  Or,  if  you're 
one  of  those  people  who  actually  read 
the  movie  credits,  you've  seen  his  name 
before  all  the  Martin  and  Lewis  pictures. 
He's  the  director  who  stages  the  dance  se- 
quences. 

"The  family"  was  quick  to  welcome 
Charles  to  its  little  group.  "He's  a  million 
laughs,"  they  said.  "He's  a  ball."  But,  best 
of  all,  he  was  good  for  Patti.  Not,  how- 
ever, that  he'd  ever  make  a  great  dancer 
out  of  her.  "I'm  a  singer,"  Patty  kept 
insisting,   "not  a  dancer!" 

And  so,  in  the  best  boy-meets-girl  tra- 
dition, "they  fought  like  cats  and  dogs" — 
at  first.  But  Patti's  act,  which  opened  at 
the  Fountainebleau  in  Miami  Beach,  was 
a  huge  success.  And  off-stage,  "the  family" 
observed,  Patti  was  getting  over  her  shy- 
ness. 

Soon,  the  gossip  columnists  were  carry- 
ing items  about  what-well-known-singer 
named  Patti  Page  and  what  stage -director 
named  Charles  O'Curran.  But  that  wasn't 
what  broke  the  news  to  the  world.  The 
whole  story  was  right  there  in  Patti's 
songs.  That's  what  she  had  been  singing 
about  all  this  time,  only  now — at  long  last 
— the  right  man  had  come  along.  You 
had  only  to  listen  to  the  new  meaning  she 
gave  the  words  to  understand.  This  was 
good,  old  fashioned,  "I-want-the-whole- 
world-to-know-it"  love. 

At  the  moment,  however,  their  whole 
world  is  show  business.    Which  means  that 


Patti  is  in  New  York  and  Charles  is  in 
Hollywood,  and  "never  the  twain  shall 
meet" — except  when  he  can  manage 
to  fly  East  or  she  can  manage  to  fly  West. 
One  of  the  reasons  Patti  is  so  glad  her 
TV  show  is  on  film  is  that  it  enables  her 
"to  get  ahead  of  schedule"  so  that  she 
can  take  an  occasional  week  off  "to  see 
her  boy  friend." 

But  the  pace  is  killing.  Up  at  six-thirty 
every  morning,  she  spends  two  days  of 
each  week  recording,  two  filming,  and  two 
on  costumes.  By  the  time  Sunday  comes, 
Patti  "just  wants  to  sit  down."  Last  sum- 
mer, she  didn't  even  feel  like  using  her 
yacht.  "It  would  have  taken  an  hour  to 
get  there,"  she  explains. 

Patti  keeps  going,  however.  She  has  to! 
One  month,  her  phone  bill  for  wires  and 
long-distance  calls  to  California  came  to 
four  hondred  dollars.  And  it's  no  consola- 
tion to  remember  how  much  it  used  to 
cost  Rosemary  Clooney  and  Jose  Ferrer 
when  they  were  in  the  same  spot. 

The  only  solution,  of  course,  is  marriage. 
"We're  planning  it,"  Patti  admits,  "but  .  .  ." 
She  throws  up  her  hands. 

A  million  girls  would  give  anything  just 
to  be  in  her  shoes,  but  she'd  gladly  trade 
with  any  of  them.  For  the  truth  is  that  she 
is  no  longer  Clara  Ann  Fowler,  the  girl- 
next-door,  who  can  do  as  she  pleases.  She's 
Patti  Page.  As  a  recording  artist  and  TV 
star,  she's  Big  Business.  And,  like  all 
institutions,  she  has  contracts  and  obliga- 
tions to  fulfill.  She  must  tour  the  coun- 
try with  the  General  Motors  Mortorama 
Show,  make  personal  appearances  at  Reno 
and  Las  Vegas,  keep  recording  dates,  do  a 
series  of  "pop"  concerts  that  will  take  her 
as  far  away  as  Tokyo. 

Liast  summer,  when  she  was  visiting 
Charles  in  Hollywood,  "the  family"  had  a 
hunch  that  the  two  might  slip  off  to  Las 
Vegas  and  get  married.  It  gave  the  two 
sweethearts  quite  a  laugh  when  Frances 
Kaye,  Patti's  close  friend  and  publicist, 
asked  if  they  could  just  hold  up  any  such 
plans  until  after  the  August  issue  of  a  cer- 
tain magazine  came  out.  (It  seems  that 
they  were  running  a  piece  on  Patti  as  a 
successful  "bachelor  girl.") 

One  wonders,  however,  if  the  two  will 
be  quite  so  amused  next  spring,  when  Patti 
hopes  to  go  to  Europe  with  Charles.  It's 
something  she's  not  only  dreamed  about — 
she's  even  been  taking  French  lessons  in 
preparation. 

"I'd  like  to  go  in  April,"  she  muses,  ob- 
viously thinking  of  "April  in  Paris." 

"April?"  Jack  Rael,  her  manager,  pricks 
up  his  ears.  "You're  already  booked  in 
Las  Vegas." 

"Well,  then.  May  or  June,"  Patti  says. 
And,  somehow,  this  new  Patti  Page  sounds 
as  though  she'll  make  it.  Her  current 
series  runs  until  next  July  .  .  .  but  if  she 
can  film  enough  shows  in  advance  .  .  .  and 
if  Charles  can  get  off  at  the  same  time  .  .  . 

But  that's  only  one  dream.  There's  an- 
other! If  she  could  get  into  pictures, 
then  she  could  spend  half  of  each  year  in 
Hollywood  and  the  other  half  in  New  York. 
She'd  be  eating  her  cake  and  having  it,  too, 
of  course — but  any  young  lady  with  the 
determination  to  cut  out  banana  cream  pie 
can  certainly  manage  that.  Not  only  is 
Patti  a  sttmning  hundred-and-fifteen 
pounds,  but  her  TV  films  reveal  a  new 
glamour  that  matches  any  star's  in  Holly- 
wood. Only  her  voice  and  her  way  with 
a  song  remain  the  same.  And  after  all,  they 
made  her  a  star  in  records  and  TV.  Why 
not  in  motion  pictures,  too? 

It's  the  kind  of  dream  that  Clara  Ann 
Fowler  might  have,  but  that  only  a  Patti 
Page  can  make  true.  But  before — long 
before  they're  calling  her  the  newest  star 
in  Hollywood — we  bet  they'll  be  calling 
her  Mrs.  Charles  O'Curran. 


Make  Your  LAMPS  into 

CHRISTMAS    1-REES 


cleverest  decorating 
idea  in  yearsl 

Now  you  can  bring  Hollywood's  famous 
"Christmas  Tree  Lane"  right  into  your  home.  /, 
These  perfect  replicas  fit  over  any  lamp  in    ^ 
place  of  your  regular  shade.  Make  all  your 
lamps  into  Christmas  trees  and  spread 
the  Holiday  Spirit  throughout  your 
house.  Ideal  for  children's  room,         ,  / 
window  decoration,  small 
apartments,  etc.  Beautifully 
lithographed  in  forest  green  with 
white  "snow"  on  branches  that 
stand  out  for  easy  decorating. 
Can  be  used  for  many  years. 
Complete  with  simple  illustrated 
instructions.  At  this  low  price 
you'll  want  several.  Order  now 
. . .  Sorry,  No  C.O.D.'s.  17  inches 
high,  17  inches  in  diameter. 


CHRISTMAS  TREE  LAMPSHADES  Dept.49 
P.O.  Box  98,  MURRAY  HILl  STA.,  N.  Y.  16,  N.  Y. 


CLIP   AND   MAIL 


Christmas  Tree  lampshades  for  which  I 


TIPS  for  EXPECTANT  MOTHERS 


FREE  booklet  of  valuable  informa- 
tion, "Tips  for  Expectant  Mothers", 
is  offered  with  this  soothing,  re- 
freshing sicin  conditioner  thai 
softens  tight,  dry  skin,  eases  muscu- 
lar tingling  and  burning  in^ 
bock  and  legs.  Enjoy  the 
Comfort  and  Relief  of  This 
Skin  Lubricant. 
$1.25  AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES 

Mother's  Friend 


^ 


wtr 


Do  your  cosmetics 
feed  the   pimples    tiiat 
cloud  your  complexion  ; 


Don't  feed— starve  the  invisible 
skin  bacteria  in  pimples  and  black- 
heads, that  "disease"  your  com- 
plexion! This  home  facial  complex- 
ion care — Pompeian  Milk  Facial — 
is  pink  magic  to  make  your  skin 
healthier  again.  Bacteriological 
chemists  found  Pompeian's  "zone 
of  inhibition"  2  to  10  times  greater 
than  other  leading  /nedications  in 
combating  skin  bacteria  that  infect 
your  complexion.  It's  the  milk, 
chemists  say,  that  makes  PC-U— the 
hexachlorophene — so  far  more  effective 
In  bringing  back  a  lovelier  you. 

UST  IhPROVE  IT..  TRIAl  TUBE  lOt 

Send  10c  for  a  trial  tube.  You'll  be 
amazed.  Or  get  Pompeian  at  your  drug- 
gist tonight.  Pompeian  Corp,,  Baltimore 
24,  Md.  Dept  P-U. 


MILK  FACIAL  CREAM 


Berman's  Diamond  Loan  Banh 

Depf.  TG  — BERMAN  BLDG.,  BALTO.  1,  MD. 


RELI 

Toothache 

Denture 

Irritation 

Neuralgic 
Pains 

with  quick-soothing 


NUM-ZIT 

>        ADULT 
STRENGTH 


at  all  drug  counters 

For  baby's  teething  pains, 

ask  for  NUM-ZIT  Teething  Lotion 
Products  of  PUREPAC  Corporation 


87 


Going! 
going 


T 


gone: 

This  may  be  your  last 

chance  to  get  the 

personally  recommended 

LIBERACE  MAGAZINE 

Only  available  through 
this  advertisement. 


•  With  magnificent  four-color  front 
and  back  cover  portraits  (suitable  for 
framing),  this  fascinating  magazine 
on  fine  grade  paper,  authorized  and 
approved  by  Liberace,  tells  of  Liber- 
ace's  early  life,  career,  when,  how  he 
hit  the  big  time,  where  and  how  he 
lives  his  experiences  in  the  movies, 
how  he  puts  his  television  show  to- 
gether, and  has  a  heart-warming  story 
by  his  mother.  There  are  many  inti- 
mate photographs. 

Many  of  these  magazines  have 
been  sold  and  now  there  are 
only  a  few  copies  left.  They  can 
only  be  purchased  direct  from 
the  publisher.  So  hurry — get 
your  copy  now!    Fill  in  coupon. 


Ideal  Publishing  Corp.,  Dept  X 
295  Madison  Avenue 
New  York   17,  New  York 

Please  send  me copies  of  the 

LIBERACE  Magazine,  i  enclose  35<  for 
each  copy.  (Please  do  not  send  stamps. 
Send   cash   or  money  orders   only.) 


38 


NAME 

STREET 

CITY 

ZONE STATE. 


The  Smile  Behind  the  Song 


(Continued  from  page  39) 
other  sore  throats.  He  suspected  a  plot. 
But,  since  all  Como  plots  are  gentle  things 
which  contribute  to  the  greater  enjoyment 
of  all  concerned,  he  went  along.  "Does 
your  throat  really  bother  you.  Perry?"  he 
asked   sympathetically. 

The  condition  of  Perry's  throat  became 
more  serious  with  every  word  describing 
its  condition.  He  really  thought  he  ought 
to  save  it  in  every  way  he  could.  Solemn- 
ly, Lee  agreed.  What  did  Perry  have  in 
mind? 

Perry  came  to  his  point.  "You  know, 
Ronnie  is  getting  to  be  a  pretty  big  boy 
now."  Perry's  older  son  was  then  about 
thirteen.  "I  wonder,"  said  Perry,  "if  he 
could  help  me  out.  Do  you  suppose  it 
would  be  all  right  if,  instead  of  having 
me  read  the  Christmas  story,  while  the 
kids  act  it  out,  we  had  Ronnie  read  it?" 

To  Lee,  Perry's  real  purpose  now  was 
crystal  clear.  Perry  recognized  that  his 
son  had  reached  the  self-conscious  age. 
He  neither  wished  to  embarrass  Ronnie 
by  asking  him  to  do  kid  stuff  nor  to  hurt 
his  feelings  by  leaving  him  out.  In  this 
situation,  which  any  fond  father  could 
well  understand,  Lee  quickly  agreed.  "I 
think    it    would    be    just    great.    Perry." 

But  Perry  wasn't  quite  through.  "Lee," 
he  said,  "would  you  do  me  a  favor?  If  I 
ask  him,  he'll  think  it's  a  put-up  job.  But, 
if  you  ask  him,  he'll  think  you  really 
want  it  that  way.    Would  you  do  it?" 

Again  Lee  agreed.  Perry  advanced  to 
the  next  step  of  the  plot.  "Now,  I  think 
he  should  have  some  reward  for  doing  it. 
I'll  buy  the  present,  but  I  want  you  to 
keep  that  secret.    You  give  it  to  him." 

"What  does  he  want,  Perry?" 

It  was  Perry's  turn  to  grin.  "What  does 
any  kid  that  age  want?  His  first  shot- 
gun, of  course." 

With  all  the  elements  of  Perry's  little 
plot  revealed,  Lee  took  over.  He  said, 
"I'll  go  along.  Except  for  one  thing.  I'll 
buy  the  gun." 

Perry  protested,  but  Lee  had  the  con- 
vincer.  "That's  the  way  it's  got  to  be, 
Perry.  Or,  I  won't  talk  to  Ronnie."  Perry 
was  licked,  and  he  knew  it. 

A  huddle  with  Ronnie  ensued.  Lee 
asked,  most  seriously,  if  Ronnie  would 
help  out  his  father.  Instantly,  the  lad 
agreed.  But,  when  the  nature  of  the 
help  was  described,  adolescent  shyness 
cropped  up.  Lee  was  ready  for  it.  "Would 
you — for  a  shotgun?" 

The  boy's  eyes  widened.  "For  a  shot- 
gun? A  real  one?  Sure,  if  you  think 
I'll  be  any  good." 

"You'll  be  good,"  Lee  assured  him,  and 
went  out  to  buy  the  gun.  He  went  to  one 
of  the  nation's  best  sports  stores  and  se- 
lected a  beauty.  He  also  instructed  them 
to  sink  a  small  gold  plate  in  the  stock, 
bearing  Ronnie's  name,  the  date,  the  oc- 
casion. 

Ronnie  did  his  part  like  a  trouper.  The 
show  was  great  and  Ronnie's  joy  at  hav- 
ing the  new  gun  was  even  greater. 

But  then  it  was  up  to  Perry  to  provide 
an  occasion  to  use  the  gun.  He  bought  a 
new  gun  for  himself,  and  the  two  set  out 
for  a  weekend  of  pheasant  hunting  on  a 
game  farm  in  New  England.  They  had 
just  returned  when  Perry  hobbled  pain- 
fully across  the  stage  to  say  to  Lee,  "You 
and  your  shotguns  .  .  ." 

Effusively  sympathetic,  Lee  asked, 
"Did  something  go  wrong?" 

"Wrong?"  said  Como.  "I'll  say  it  did. 
Now,  you  know  darned  well  I  haven't 
had  a  chance  to  do  any  hunting  since  I 
left  Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania.  Never 
fired  a  shell.  So  we  start  kicking  up  some 
pheasants.  Ronnie  picks  them  off,  neat  as 


you  please.  Then  he  gets  concerned  about 
me  and  says,  'You  take  the  next  shot. 
Dad.'  Well,  maybe  I  did  get  a  little  hasty. 
Maybe  I  didn't  hold  the  gun  just  right.  But 
it's  sure  got  a  kick.  Oh,  it  was  a  real  great 
hunting  trip.  The  kid  proves  to  be  a  regu- 
lar Daniel  Boone.  And  me — me,  I  get 
driven  into  the  ground,  right  up  to  my 
ankles.  I'm  black -and -blue  all  over.  Yom 
and  your  shotguns!" 

This  propensity  of  Perry's  for  getting 
into  trouble  will  have  a  considerable  in- 
fluence on  the  Perry  Como  show  this  sea- 
son. As  he  swings  into  NBC-TV's  big  Sat- 
urday-night spot  with  the  new  hour  show, 
written  by  Goodman  Ace,  some  of  the 
skits  will  be  based  on  real-life  situations. 

Two  reasons,  says  Lee  Cooley,  have  dic- 
tated this  format:  The  fkst  is  Perry's  own 
deep  sense  of  honesty.  The  second  is  his 
staff's  feeling  that  it  is  about  time  to  share 
with  the  viewing  public  the  kind  of  Como 
comedy  they  have  long  enjoyed  backstage. 

He  adds,  "But  it  will  be  honest.  You 
can't  present  Perry  as  anything  but  what 
he  is." 

What  Perry  is,  in  this  year  of  1955,  is 
pretty  darned  satisfying.  He  is,  first  of  all, 
a  singer  who,  after  approximately  twenty- 
five  years  in  the  business,  has  the  same  ro- 
mantic appeal  to  a  bobby-soxer  today  that 
he  had  for  her  mother  at  the  same  age. 

Further,  he  is  a  man  whom  scandal  has 
never  touched.  He  is  still  in  love  with  the 
same  pretty  girl — Roselle  BelHne — whom 
he  married  in  1933,  when  he  wasn't  sure 
whether  he  was  destined  to  be  a  barber  or 
a  singer,  when  his  fortunes  in  both  fields 
were  at  such  a  low  ebb  that,  after  he  paid 
for  a  marriage  license,  he  didn't  have 
money  enough  to  buy  a  wedding  ring.  To- 
day, they  have  a  lovely  fourteen-room 
house  at  Sands  Point,  Long  Island.  They 
have  two  sons,  Ronnie,  fifteen,  and  David, 
nine.  They  have  a  seven-year-old  daugh- 
ter, Therese,  whom  they  call  Terri. 

Perry  is  a  man  who  has  his  own  ideas  of 
good  citizenship.  They  reach  all  the  way 
from  driving  his  own  and  the  neighbors' 
kids  to  a  Boy  Scout  meeting,  on  to  turning 
down  a  high-priced  booking  at  a  gambling 
hotel,  because,  "I  couldn't  be  a  shill." 

He  is  a  man  known  for  his  good  works. 
As  a  member  of  his  local  church,  he  shoul- 
ders an  ordinary  parishioner's  responsi- 
bility for  its  welfare.  His  activities  also 
have  a  wider  range.  He  and  Roselle  have 
received  one  of  the  highest  honors  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church.  At  a  ceremony 
presided  over  by  Cardinal  Spellman,  they 
were  made  Grand  Knight  and  Lady  of  the 
Equestrian  Order  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre 
of  Jerusalem.  He  also  received  the  1953 
Interfaith  Award.  Yet  he  has  a  way  of 
keeping  his  charities  to  himself.  When  he 
went  to  Boston  for  the  opening  of  the 
Christopher  Columbus  Community  Center, 
friends  knew  he  was  going  to  do  a  benefit. 
They  did  not  know  that,  as  part  of  the 
Center,  the  Perry  Como  Gymnasium  was 
to  be  dedicated  the  same  day. 

Como  doesn't  tell  those  things  about 
himself.  The  stories  he  does  tell  are  the 
incidents  in  which  he  himself  "comes  a 
cropper."  As  Lee  says,  "Perry's  the  kind 
of  guy  things  happen  to." 

And  somehow  Lee,  too,  always  seems  to 
get  involved.  It  was,  by  Perry's  account, 
Lee's  fault  that  he  was  led  to  explore  the 
briny  deep.  Ronnie  heard  Lee  speak  of 
his  own  deep-sea  fishing,  so  it  wasn't  long 
until  Perry  and  Ronnie  were  out  at  Mon- 
tauk  Point,  at  the  very  end  of  Long  Is- 
land. Inevitably,  it  followed  that  Perry 
should  say  to  Lee,  "You  and  your  fishing!" 

"You'd  think,"  said  Perry,  "that  fish 
could  stay  decently  near  the  shore.  But  no. 


je  guy  who's  running  this  charter  boat 

las  to  take  off  to  sea,  and  there  we  were, 

|ialf-way    to    London,    when    the    engine 

}uit.  Then  it  developed  the  radio  was  on 

le  blink.  Then  the  sun  went  down  and 

le  fog  came  in  and  swallowed  us.  Then  I 
looked  around  for  the  guy  who  got  us  into 

js  mess.  And — what  do  you  call  the 
iownstairs  of  a  boat,  Lee?  Well,  anyway, 

lere  he  was,  just  casually  taking  the  en- 

le  to  pieces  with  a  monkey  wrench.  You 
*and  your  boats!" 

Old  television  hands  around  New  York 
credit  Perry's  gift  for  wry  comedy  with 
having  made  a  major,  though  unseen,  con- 
tribution to  all  his  programs.  They  point 
out  that  the  staff  and  crew  work  together 
as  a  smooth,  unruffled  unit  because  Perry 
has  broken  the  customary  tension  ^  with 
his  own  clowning.  Says  Lee,  "There's  al- 
ways  a   lot   of  healthy,    adult  horseplay." 

In  this  give-and-take.  Perry  may  often 
be  the  fall  guy,  but  it  takes  a  good  plot  to 
achieve  it.  Lee  traces  one  of  his  inspira- 
tions to  the  night  he  put  his  own  small 
daughter  to  bed  and  found  half  her  toys 
under  the  covers.  Never  a  man  to  throw 
away  a  good  situation,  he  promptly  trans- 
lated this  into  a  lullaby  nvmiber  for  Perry. 

In  the  finale,  just  as  he  was  gently  ex- 
tracting a  toy  truck  and  a  gun  from  under 
the  covers,  the  child  actor  in  the  crib  sat 
up  and  asked,  "Will  you  do  something  for 
me.  Daddy?" 

Although  he  was  caught  unaware.  Perry 
quickly  ad-libbed,  "What  do  you  want  me 
to  do,  son?" 

"Get  out  of  here,"  said  the  boy,  "and  let 
me  get  some  sleep." 

Backstage,  Perry  was  torn  between  irri- 
tation and  grudging  admiration.  "That  little 
clown,"  he  chuckled.  "Padding  his  part 
like  that!" 

"It's  tough,"  Lee  agreed.  "You  never  can 
trust  these  child  actors." 

"You've  got  to  hand  it  to  the  kid, 
though,"  said  Perry.  "He  got  away  with  it, 
and  it  did  make  a  better  ending." 

By  then,  the  grin  Lee  was  trying  to  sup- 
press was  showing  around  the  edges. 

Perry  caught  it.  "You  siimer.  You  did  it. 
Well,  I'll  get  even." 

This  was  no  idle  threat.  Perry  gives  as 
good  as  he  gets.  Once,  when  they  had  a 
warehouse  niunber,  Lee  used  a  lift  truck's 
protruding  platform  as  a  bench  for  the 
chorus  girls.  Perry,  who  is  fascinated  by 
all  things  mechanical,  had  been  having  a 
great  time  driving  the  truck  around  the 
stage  during  rehearsal,  but  he  hadn't 
touched  the  elevating  mechanism — until 
suddenly,  on  camera,  he  hit  the  button. 
Lift,  girls  and  all,  went  ten  feet  into  the 
air.  Frantically,  the  cameramen  backed 
away,  trying  to  keep  the  girls  in  the  pic- 
ture. The  floor  director  signalled  Perry  to 
drop  them  back  into  position.  Perry  went 
right  on  singing  as  though  he  did  not  un- 
derstand. Not  until  the  program  was  over 
did  he  nonchalantly  press  the  de-elevator 
button  and  say,  "You  can  come  down  now." 

The  closest  they  have  ever  come  to 
breaking  up  Perry  was  on  the  closing  show 
at  CBS  last  summer.  They  conspired  with 
Roselle,  who  for  five  years  had  steadfast- 
ly refused  to  go  near  a  camera.  That  day 
she  even  told  Perry  she  didn't  want  to 
go  to  the  studio.  But,  just  as  he  was  start- 
ing his  final  number,  she  walked  on  stage. 
Perry  stopped  singing,  right  in  the  middle 
of  a  word.  In  fact,  he  had  trouble  ever 
finishing  that  song.  He  was  too  busy  kiss- 
ing the  woman  he  loves. 

These  are  a  few  of  the  reasons  why 
people  around  the  studios  have  always 
said  the  best  Perry  Como  shows  are  those 
which  go  on  backstage.  Now,  with  Good- 
man Ace  turning  the  hi-jinks  into  scripts, 
Perry's  viewers  will  see  them,  too.  It 
sounds  like  a  good  season  for  lovers  of 
both  music  and  comedy. 


BARGAINS-To  Get  New  Cusfomers! 


Your  Choice  Of  These   only 
LOVELY   GIFTS   50^ 


ner.  Thermometer  tell*: 


Wishing  Well  Planter 

and   Thermometer 

with  RINGING  WEATHER  BELL 

The  chemically  treated  Bell  actually 
changes  color  whenever  atmospheric  con- 
ditions vary;  that  is,  it  turns  pink  at  high 
humidity,  blue  at  low,  lavender  at  inter- 
mediate. The  Wishing  Well  is  so  deco- 
rative as  a  charming  hanging  planter  to 
bhow  off  your  favorite  ivy,  philodendron. 
greenery,  to  perfection.  Stand  it  on  man- 
tel, shelf,  or  use  as  table  centerj'iece. 
Ideal  for  candy,  cigarettes — even  as  a 
Wishing  Well  Bank  for  guests  to  toss  in 
their  coins  when  making  a  wish.  Made  of 
colorful  hand-decorated  imported  ce- 
ramic with  gleaming  gold  trim.  The 
adorable  Bell  rings  out  a  tinkling  wel- 
— i  come  when  summoning  guests  to  din- 
temperature  at  a  glance.  ALL  FOR  ONLY  50c. 

"Kissing    Lilie   Crazy"   WEATHER   ASH    TRAY 

Heavy  kissing  is  going  on  under  the  big 

sombrero,  but  all  TOU  see  is  a  pair  of 

bale   footsies,   pink  panties,   and   shiny 

trousers.  BUT — just  turn  it  upside  down 

and  discover  what's  going  on  underneath. 

The  chemically  treated  Footsies  actually 

r*.    change  color  whenever  atmospheric  con- 

I  ditions  vary;  that  is.  they  turn  pink  at 

high  humidity,  blue  at  low,  lavender  at 

intermediate.  Made  of  gleaming,  color- 

lul  imported  ceramic.  Available  plain 
""—  —  "  (without  names  and  date)  for  only  -jOc. 

JliuevtT  Eur  <jnlv  Kk  t\na  we'll  artistically  hand-letter  any  tirst 
namis  dt  i<  uple  and  annnersarv  date.  Name-^  glow  in  the  dark  too' 
Each  Ashtray  can  be  peisunalized  ditferenth  so  that  \ou  cm  &i\e 
one   a«ay  ab   a   gift 

DOLLS  OF  MANY  NATIONS      A^.   i^    C^ 

France  -   Holland  -   Ireland  -  China  -  Eng- 
land  -   Indian  -  Japan  -   Cowboy  -   Cowgirl 

10  adorable  dolls — 
each  representing  a 
different  country.  In 
gay.  brilliant  colors 
—  so  typically  na- 
tive, and  so  true- 
to-life.     Wonderful 

for  play— and  they're  educational,  too.   Very  decorative  on  km    I    kn      I.    --h    li      m    iiul     til  It     Lte     That   luck\    little  child 
will    love   them— and   you    too,    will    be    thrilled    and   delightc  i    \Mi    n    \    u  Mi    n     ]i1l   like    liciil    t^.plessl    n^      rh^se 

endearing   imported   Dolls   are   completely   washable,    made     >i     im  ii  U    i  iv  jiu      LxquisiteU    hand  decoiated      0\ci    Ji  > 
tall.   With   each  order,   you   also   get  the  History  of   Foreign  Dolls     containing   manv    intere<;ting   stones 
CATKCAmniJ      rilADAMTEEn      no      MnMEV      RArir      Order  as   many  of  these  wonderful   gifts  as  you   want  at  these 
SATISI-ACIIUN      bUAKANTtbU      QR     MONtT      BALK      low    prices.    Add    only    ISc   to    EACH    gift   ordered    for    postage 
and   handling.    Send   check,    money  order  or  cash.    No   C.O.D.'s    please. 


CHARMING   CENTERPIECE 

PLANTER  and  SWANS     pfZftt 

Complete    with    Colorful    Floral    Display 

The  two  lovely  Swans  {one  pours  salt,  the  other 
pepper)  stretch  their  long  graceful  necks  as  if 
drinking  from  the  charming  Flower  Ring.  An 
enchanting,  imported  creation  that's  so  pretty 
as  a  table  centerpiece  or  on  mantel,  end-table, 
etc.  Artistically  made  of  hand  decorated, 
gleaming  white  ceramic.  Comes  complete,  filled 
with  lovely  multicolored  simulated  flowers.  If 
you  desire,  remove  flowers  from  Planter,  and 
use  it  for  serving  candy,  nuts,  cigarettes,  etc. 
The  center  of  attraction  and  a  wonderful  con- 
versation piece  vou  will  cherish  for  years' 

ALL  FOR  ONLY  50c. 


COMPLETE  SET  OF 

10o'^.°l'V50^ 


DOBBS  PRODUCTS  CO..  900  W.  Lake  St..  Dept.  741.  Chicago  7.  III. 


OLD  LEG  TROUBLE 


» 


Easy  to  use  Viscose  Applications  may 
heal  many  old  leg  sores  due  to  venous 
^+>,B  congestion  of  varicose  veins,  leg  swell- 
ing or  inj  uries.  Send  today  for  a  FREE 
BOOK  and  No-Cost-For-Trial-plan. 

R.  G.    VISCOSE   COMPANY 
t40  N.  Dearborn  Street,    Chicago  2,  Illinois 


DjESTROY/^rA^^^/FOREVER 


'  Only  by  KILLING  THE  HAIR  ROOT 

r  UNWANTED  HAIR  ii  GONE  FOREVER.  Brings  relief  J 

'  and  social  happineu.  Do  not  use  our  method 

J  yoo  hove  read  our  instrucllon  book  carefully  and 

gleamed  to  use  the  MAHLER  METHOD  safely  and 

effidently.  Used  successfully  over  fifty  yean. 


Send  5'^ TODAY  for  booklet  0 


MAHLERS.  INC      DepL  59-P  PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I. 


FALSE  TEETH 

KLUTCH  holds  them  tighter 

KLTJTCH  forms  a  comfort  cushion;  holds  dental  plates 
so  much  firmer  and  snugger  that  one  can  eat  and  talk 
with  greater  comfort  and  security;  in  many  cases  al- 
most as  well  as  with  natural  teeth.  Klutch  lessens  the 
constant  fear  of  a  dropping,  rocking,  chafing  plate.  35c 
and  60c  at  druggists.  If  your  druggist  hasn't  it, 
don't  waste  money  on  substitutes,  but  send  us  10c 
and  we  will  mail  you  a  generous  trial  box. 

KLUTCH  CO..  Box  5586-K,  ELMIRA,  N.  Y. 


WATCH 


BLONDE 

HAIR 

Come  to  Life! 


Want  to  keep  your  hair  from  getting  dark 
and  faded?  Want  to  restore  its  Ijfe  and  lustre  — see  it 
shades  lighter,  brighter,  shinier— at  once)  Then  use 
BLONDEX,  the  new  "lotion"  shampoo  made  specially 
for  blondes,  that  contains  ANDIUM-shines  and  lightens 
as  it  shampoos.  In  just  II  minutes,  its  rich,  billowy 
lather  rinses  away  dingy  film  that  makes  hair  dork  and 
dull,  uncovers  sparkling  highlights  and  lustre.  Safe  for 
children.  Gel  BLONDEX  today!  At  IO<t,  drug,  dept.  stores. 


SOOSLABELS^Sc 

To  get  your  name  on  our  maiUne  Jist 
we  will  send  you  500  gummed  labels 
printed  with  any  name  and  address,  for 
25c.  Stick  on  letters,  pkgs..  books, 
etc.  (SPECIAL!  5  sets  $1.00  same 
or    different     name     on     each     set).  ^— _^, 

WESTERN  STATIONERY,  Dept.  1226A,  Topeka,  l<ansas 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 


Immediate 
Relief! 

A  few  drops  of  OtFTGHO®brlng  Messed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  ingrown  nail.  OUTGKO  tough- 
ens the  sMn  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OUTGKO  is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


«NV  PHOTO  EHURGED 


67 


Size  3  X  lO  Inches 


on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  fall  length  or  bust 
form,  gronps,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any  | 
part  of  a  srroup  pictnre,  Origrinal  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

Send  No  Money  3  for  $1  so  ^4 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fadeless,  on  beautiful  double-weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  ihus    N 
postage — or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
age. Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send  your  photos  today. 

Professional  Art  Studios.  544  S.  Main,  Dept  3S-P.    Princeton.  Illinois 

Learn  Facts  About 
Colitis  and  Piles 

FREE    BOOK    Explains    Causes, 
Effects   and   treatment 


Learn  about  Colon  troubles,  Stomach 
conditions,  Piles  and  other  rectal  con- 
ditions. Causes,  effects  and  treatment. 
130-page  book  sent  FREE.  McCleary 
Clinic  and  Hospital,  1123  Elms  Blvd., 
Excelsior  Springs  4,  Mo. 


Billy  Graham — Man  of  Decision 


(Continued  from  page  34) 
seven-day  crusade.  And  figures  don't  tell 
the  whole  story,  for  Wembley  is  an  open 
stadium  and,  night  after  night,  a  drench- 
ing rain  was  whipped  through  the  stands 
by  cold  winds.  In  Dallas,  Texas,  seventy- 
five  thousand  piled  into  the  Cotton  Bowl 
on  one  night.  In  Boston,  for  a  single  meet- 
ing, fifty  thousand  filled  the  Common. 
Since  1950,  his  crusades  have  been  attend- 
ed by  sixteen  million  persons.  It  is 
believed  that  twenty  to  thirty  million 
persons  hear  his  weekly  radio  sermons. 
Billy  Graham  may  well  be  responsible  for 
the  greatest  spiritual  awakening  or  our 
times. 

"We  must  live  in  vital  relationship  to 
Christ,"  Billy  says  fervently.  "We  must 
start  by  being  'bom  again.'  That  is  our 
only  hope." 

Billy  is  dynamic  and  intends  religion 
to  be  so.  Church  membership  is  not 
enough,  he  preaches.  Salvation  lies  not 
in  belonging  but  in  being,  in  putting 
Christ's  teachings  into  practice — and  in 
accepting  Christ  as  a  personal  savior. 

Although  Billy's  revivalist  methods  are 
widely  discussed,  seldom  has  anyone  taken 
a  close  look  at  the  man.  Temperamentally, 
he  is  high-strung  and  tense,  but  his  team 
works  smoothly.  In  eight  years,  they  have 
never  had  an  argument  and  their  dif- 
ferences have  always  been  quickly  settled. 
The  reason,  perhaps,  is  that  Billy's  ex- 
tremely cheerful  and  good  humored.  He 
likes  practical  jokes.  On  one  ocean  trip, 
Billy  filled  the  seasick  capsules  of  one  of 
his  assistants  with  mustard.  Previously, 
Billy  himself  was  the  object  of  a  joke. 
Usually  bareheaded,  he  bought  himself  a 
fashionable  hat.  One  of  his  assistants  filled 
it  with  shaving  suds  and,  when  Billy  put 
it  on,  he  looked  like  an  ice-cream  sun- 
dae. 

Says  Jerry  Bevan,  one  of  Billy's  team, 
"We've  become  so  busy  that  now  we 
seem  to  live  from  one  hour  to  the  next, 
so  there  is  no  horseplay.  But  the  element 
of  free  exchange  between  Billy  and  the 
rest  of  the  team  still  exists."  Jerry  has 
known  Billy  since  1947.  "Billy  is  generous 
almost  to  a  fault.  If  he  comes  back  on 
a  cold  day  without  his  overcoat,  you 
know  it's  not  because  he's  absent-minded. 
He's  given  it  away." 

Billy  Graham,  off  the  platform,  is  a  man 
of  charm  and  good  cheer.  He  smiles  with 
easy  friendliness.  He  is  a  handsome  lanky 
man    who    stands   six-feet-two.    He    tends 


to  dress  in  neat,  well-tailored,  double- 
breasted  suits.  His  hair,  once  very  blonde, 
has  darkened  slightly  in  the  past  year  to 
a  reddish  brown  and,  at  thirty-six,  he  is 
beginning  to  gray  at  the  temples.  He 
thrives  on  hard  work  and  works  a  mini- 
mum of  ten  hours  a  day.  "But  my  work  is 
soul-satisfying,"  he  tells  you,  "in  spite  of 
its  difficulties." 

One  difficulty  Billy  refers  to  is  that  of 
being  away  from  home  so  much  of  the 
time.  His  recent  European  crusade  kept 
him  away  for  six  months. 

Billy  carries  a  leather  folder  which 
holds  pictures  of  all  four  children  and 
his  wife.  As  he  talks  about  them,  you 
come  to  see  that  religion  is  not  separated 
from  any  part  of  his  life,  not  from  his 
home  and  not  from  his  past.  To  Billy, 
religion  has  always  been  alive  and  pulsat- 
ing. 

Christened  "William  Franklin,"  he  was 
born  in  North  Carolina.  His  father,  tall 
and  lanky,  is  a  prosperous  dairy  farmer. 
His  mother  is  petite  and  pious.  "Billy 
Frank,"  as  he  was  called  on  the  farm, 
was  raised  strictly.  At  the  age  of  twelve, 
he  began  rising  at  three  A.M.  to  help 
with  the  milking.  He  came  home  from 
school  to  late- afternoon  chores.  He  loved 
baseball  and  basketball,  but  was  a  poor 
student.  He  put  up  with  only  so  much  re- 
ligion as  his  Presbyterian  parents  forced 
on  him.  Billy,  as  a  lad,  was  bored  by 
religion.  He  remembers  himself  as  being 
aimless  and  reckless. 

At  sixteen,  Billy  and  his  friend  Grady 
Wilson — today,  Billy's  Associate  Evangelist 
— went  to  a  revival  meeting  at  a  Charlotte 
tabernacle.  His  parents  had  coaxed  him 
there.  Something  happened  on  the  first 
night  which  brought  him  back  the  fol- 
lowing evening.  He  didn't  want  to  go 
back,  but  it  seemed  he  couldn't  help  him- 
self. For  a  month  he  kept  coming  back. 
Then,  one  night,  he  and  Grady  walked 
solemnly  up  to  the  preacher  and  accepted 
Christ.  Billy  recalls,  "It  was  then  I 
opened  up  my  heart  and  knew  for  the 
first  time  the  sweetness  and  joy  of  being 
born  again." 

But  the  idea  of  being  a  preacher  never 
crossed  his  mind.  Instead  he  went  to  work 
as  a  Fuller  Brush  salesman  and  outsold 
everyone  else  in  his  district,  including  the 
sales  manager.  His  thirst  for  knowledge 
and  understanding  of  the  Bible  led  him 
to  Tennessee  Bible  College,  but  he  had 
so  little  interest  in  being  a  minister  that. 


DID  HIS  KISSES  MEAN  LOVE? 


Vital  questions  about  life  and  love  are  answered  on 
radio's  "My  True  Story".  For  it  presents  real-life  stories 
taken  right  from  the  files  of  "True  Story  Magazine". 
You  hear  how  people  like  your  friends,  your  neighbors, 
your  own  family  have  fought  with  life's  most  diffi- 
cult emotional  problems— and  how  they  have  won 
happiness.  Be  sure  to  listen — for  the  next  thrilling 
episode  may  answer  your  most  important  question. 
TUNE  IN 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 


90 


Too  much  time  on  their  hands  and  too  much  money  bring  them  nothing  but  trouble.  Read  "IDLE  WIVES" 
in  November  TRUE  STORY  MAGAZINE  at  newsstands  now. 


after  three  months,  he  dropped  out  and 
enrolled  at  the  Florida  Bible  Institute.  It 
was  there  he  fell  in  love  and  was  so 
deeply  moved  that  he  proposed  marriage. 

The  girl  turned  him  down.  There  was 
somebody  else,  a  classmate  who  was  going 
to  Harvard  Divinity  School.  Not  so  tact- 
fully, she  told  Billy  that  she  didn't  think 
he  would  make  much  of  a  preacher,  but 
the  boy  she  was  going  to  marry  would. 
That  was  in  the  fall  of  1937  and,  for  a  good 
while,  Billy  was  desolate  and  desperate. 
But  his  attitude  changed  on  the  night 
his  proposal  was  turned  down.  He  began 
to  take  his  preaching  seriously.  He  prac- 
ticed on  whatever  and  whomever  he  could. 
He  fired  his  gospel  at  missions,  at  birds 
in  the  woods,  and  country  churches,  at 
trailer  camps,  even  at  crocodiles  in  the 
Florida  swamps.  He  gained  confidence 
and  won  a  scholarship  to  Wheaton  College 
in  Chicago.  While  earning  his  A.B.  there, 
he  courted  his  wife-to-be,  Ruth  Bell, 
pretty  daughter  of  a  missionary  to  China. 

And  Billy's  preaching  continued.  In 
school  he  was  honored  by  being  chosen 
imdergraduate  pastor  of  the  campus 
chapel.  After  college — and  until  .  he 
achieved  national  prominence  in  1949 — 
he  served  a  hitch  in  the  Army's  Chaplain 
Corps,  spent  two  years  as  president  of 
a  small  religious  college,  was  pastor  of  a 
basement  church  in  Western  Springs, 
Illinois,  and  preached  for  Youth  for 
Christ.  In  1949,  he  made  headlines  in  Los 
Angeles  when  he  converted  singers, 
athletes  and  even  a  notorious  gangster. 
His  crusade  was  attended  by  movie  stars, 
among  them  Colleen  Townsend  and  Jane 
Russell.  He  made  powerful  friends  in 
government  and  business.  But  headlines 
and  important  friends  do  not  make  a  man 
— it's  the  other  way  around. 

Since  1949,  he  has  been  on  the  move,  as 
an  evangelist  should  be.  He  has  no  desire 
ever  to  settle  in  a  church  of  his  own.  But 
the  problem  with  the  life  of  an  evangelist 
is  that  you  can't  take  all  of  your  life  with 
you — that  part  which  is  your  home;  and 
which  is  made  up  of  small  children,  stays 
behind. 

Billy's  home  is  in  his  native  state,  North 
Carolina,  about  a  dozen  miles  south  of 
Asheville,  in  the  foothills  of  the  Blue  Ridge 
Mountains.  His  Early  American  seven- 
room  house  grew  from  five  rooms  to  meet 
the  needs  of  the  children.  The  person  who 
did  the  remodeling  was  Ruth  Bell  Gra- 
ham. She  is  as  practical  as  she  is  vivacious. 
Ruth  differs  from  Billy.  She  is  relaxed 
and  casual.  She  is  tall,  slim  and  dark,  an 
ex-campus  beauty  queen — but  not  an 
ex-beauty. 

"Ruth  does  not  dress  piously,"  Billy  says. 
"She  dresses  in  pretty  things.  We  believe 
Christianity  as  a  way  of  life  should  be 
bright  and  positive  even  in  the  clothes  you 
wear." 

In  addition  to  chores  and  children,  Ruth 
is  building  a  new  home  for  the  family. 
She  is  not  doing  the  actual  carpentry, 
but  she  has  designed  the  house,  con- 
tracted for  labor  and  is  her  own  purchas- 
ing agent.  The  new  home  comes  under  the 
heading  of  necessity,  for  Billy  and  his 
family  have  lost  their  privacy. 

Tourists  come  calling  every  day.  The 
sightseeing  bus  from  the  city  makes  Billy's 
home  a  regular  stop.  They  unload  pas- 
sengers at  his  gate.  Billy,  a  man  of  God, 
cannot  lock  his  gate.  He  cannot  employ 
a  guard  to  shoo  them  away.  So  they 
tramp  through  the  lawn  and  the  garden. 
They  come,  fifty  at  a  time,  and  they 
knock  on  the  door  and,  if  no  one  answers, 
they  pound  on  the  windows.  They  ask  if 
they  can  come  in  and  see  Billy  at  work 
in  his  study.  They  poke   cameras  at  the 


windows  hoping  for  candid  shots.  Natu- 
rally, Ruth  does  not  keep  her  blinds 
drawn,  and  so  BUly — to  avoid  being  photo- 
graphed or  "autographed"  in  his  pajamas 
— must  often  get  down  on  his  knees  and 
crawl  from  room  to  room. 

■'A  couple  of  years  ago,  I  bought  some 
land  about  four  thousand  feet  up  in  the 
mountain,"  Billy  tells  you.  "Now  that 
we're  putting  the  new  house  up  there,  I 
had  it  surveyed.  For  three  thousand  dol- 
lars I  got  two  hundred  acres,  a  hundred- 
and-twenty  apple  trees,  fourteen  springs — 
and  hvmdreds  of  rattlers  and  copper- 
heads." 

They  killed  twenty  rattlers  this  past 
siunmer.  The  road  to  the  top  of  the  moim- 
tain  is  mighty  narrow  at  times,  and  it 
makes  you  dizzy  to  look  over  the  side. 
The  snakes  and  the  road  will  probably 
discourage  conunercial  sightseeing. 

The  house  will  not  be  on  the  very  peak 
of  the  mountain,  but  mighty  close  to  it. 
The  outside  of  the  house  will  be  of  field- 
stone  and  logs.  Ruth  has  combed  the 
countryside  for  abandoned  log  cabins  and 
has  bought  up  about  a  dozen  to  be  dis- 
mantled cind  toted  to  their  new  home- 
stead. 

The  Graham  family  lives  well,  but 
without  frills.  As  a  preacher,  Billy's 
salary  is  fifteen  thousand  dollars  a  year. 
And  that's  that.  Contributions  to  the 
Foundation  run  about  two  million  dollars 
a  year,  but  every  cent  is  budgeted  out  to 
radio  and  TV,  literature,  mailing  costs, 
and  other  legitimate  expenses.  A  certified 
public  accounting  is  made  and  published 
each  year.  Incidentally,  it  is  worth 
nothing  that  money  contributed  during  a 
cnisade  stays  with  the  local  clergy,  after 
expenses  are  paid.  This  point  is  empha- 
sized by  Billy  and  his  representatives, 
since  some  evangelists  have  made  personal 
fortunes  out  of  revival  meetings. 

Billy,  who  scorns  the  material  aspect 
of  contemporary  life,  practices  what  he 
preaches.  He  doesn't  like  anything  osten- 
tatious in  his  home:  "I  told  Ruth  that  a 
carpet  and  bed  would  be  sufficient  in  the 
new  house.  I  wanted  our  home  to  be  just 
a  big,  rough  place  to  rear  the  kids." 

Billy  does  not  lack  for  ideas  on  child- 
raising.  He  tells  you  there  is  practically  no 
child  delinquency  among  families  who  are 
regular  church-goers.  In  no  xmcertain 
terms  he  reminds  an  audience  that  the 
Bible  tells  you  to  raise  children  to  be 
respectful  and  obedient. 

Billy  does  not  spare  the  rod.  "I'm  not 
talking  about  mischief  and  misdemeanors," 
he  says.  "But,  for  disobedience  and  dis- 
honesty, I'm  not  above  getting  a  little 
peach  tree  for  their  bottoms." 

There's  William  Franklin  III,  his  three- 
year-old,  and  there  are  his  girls — Virginia, 
ten,  Anne,  seven,  and  Ruth,  five.  Because 
Billy  is  away  so  much,  Ruth  frequently 
has  to  keep  them   in   check  herself. 

"You  shouldn't  spank  me,"  Virginia 
said,  on  one  such  occasion.  "It  wasn't  me 
who  made  trouble." 

"Who  did?"  Ruth  asked. 

"It  was  the  devU  in  me.  That's  who." 

"In  that  case,"  said  Mother,  "I'd  better 
beat  the  devil  right  out  of  you." 

The  Grahams  are  not  stern.  Disciplining 
is  not  an  occupation  with  them,  for  Billy 
and  Ruth  hold  that  you  teach  children  by 
example  rather  than  by  rule.  But,  when 
spanking  is  necessary,  Billy  explains  that 
he  will  first  spend  twenty  minutes  telling 
the  child  why  it  has  to  be  done — and  then 
twenty  minutes  afterwards  loving  the 
child.  "I  can't  help  telling  them  that  it 
hurts  me  worse  than  it  does  them,  because 
it  does." 

The  children  say  grace  at  every  meal. 
There  is  daily  prayer.  Sunday  is  made  a 
very  special  day  for  the  children.  After 
church,  there  may  be  a  picnic.  There  are 


special  treats,  candy  and  soda  pop,  which 
are  not  allowed  in  the  daily  diet.  Certain 
things,  such  as  secular  movies,  are  for- 
bidden on  Sunday,  but  there  is  no  lack 
of  fun.  "Religion  has  to  be  made  live  and 
dynamic  for  youngsters,  too,"  Billy  says. 

He  will  sit  down  and  read  children's 
stories  based  on  the  Bible  and  dramatize 
these.  Tliey  all  sing  together  and  play 
games.  But  the  children  have  never  heard 
Billy  preach.  "We  don't  want  them  to 
think  of  Billy  except  as  their  daddy," 
Ruth  explains.  "We  want  them  to  learn 
to  know  and  love  Billy  for  himself." 

Ruth  makes  a  point  of  talking  about  him 
every  day  when  he  is  away.  For  Ruth, 
the  life  is  as  difficult  as  it  is  for  Billy.  She 
is  on  the  move,  too,  dividing  her  time 
between  Billy  and  the  children  at  home. 
Commenting  on  their  frequent  separa- 
tions, Ruth  says,  "I'd  rather  see  a  little  of 
Billy  than  a  lot  of  anyone  else." 

During  his  recent  European  crusade, 
she  joined  Billy  at  Glasgow  and  was  with 
him  at  a  luncheon  given  in  his  honor  by 
Queen  Elizabeth.  Ruth  went  on  to  the 
continent  for  a  couple  of  weeks,  and  then 
flew  back  to  North  Carolina  to  tend  the 
children  and  gather  more  logs.  But,  when 
she  is  with  BUly,  she  fits  right  in  with 
the  working  team.  "Ruth  knows  the  Bible 
better  than  I  do,"  Billy  says.  "She  helps 
prepare  speeches  and  helps  with  my  writ- 
ing." 

1  here  is  so  much  to  do,  and  Billy  spends 
all  of  his  time  doing  it.  Radio  is  not  the 
least  of  his  activities.  From  his  gigantic 
radio  audience,  Billy  gets  ten  thousand  let- 
ters a  week.  Some  of  the  mail  is  dra- 
matic. A  prisoner  in  a  Southern  peni- 
tentiary wrote  that,  after  hearing  Billy,  he 
gave  up  his  plans  as  ringleader  for  a 
prison  break.  A  convict  became  a  con- 
vert. Out  in  Utah,  another  prison  had 
a  riot  because  half  the  inmates  wanted 
to  listen  to  Billy — and  the  other  half  didn't. 
In  the  Bahamas,  the  governor  of  an  island 
wrote  that  all  six  hundred  inhabitants 
Ustened  to  Billy  each  Sunday.  A  woman 
in  the  Midwest  was  about  to  destroy  her- 
self because  she  was  hungry  and  tired,  un- 
able to  pay  her  rent  or  buy  a  crust  of 
bread.  She  turned  on  the  gas.  The  radio 
was  tuned  to  music.  Billy's  voice  came  to 
her  like  something  out  of  her  subconscious. 
She  got  up  and  went  to  church  and  there 
gained  a  new  lease  on  life.  But  these  are 
exceptional  cases.  Billy's  radio  sermons 
have  the  same  purpose  as  his  meetings:  To 
reawaken  the  spiritual  conscience. 

Billy  is  criticized.  There  are  people — 
righteous  ones,  too — who  don't  approve  of 
revivalists  and  their  thunder.  Billy  doesn't 
argue  with  them,  but  he  can  point  to  his 
friends  with  pride.  He  has  visited  with 
Sir  Winston  Churchill  and  has  prayed 
more  than  once  with  Harry  Truman  and 
Dwight  Eisenhower.  The  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury  gave  the  benediction  at  one  of 
Billy's  meetings.  Chief  Justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  Earl  Warren  has  helped 
promote  a  Graham  crusade. 

But  Billy  is  himible,  honest.  He  believes. 

"I  have  no  intention  or  desire  to  found 
a  new  religion,"  he  says.  "I  believe  in  the 
teachings  of  Christ.  I  want  only  to  help 
others  to  find  Him."  He  has  refused  to 
return  to  some  cities  too  often.  "I  don't 
want  a  personal  following.  Such  loyalty 
belongs  to  Him." 

Billy  takes  no  part  of  the  credit  for  the 
new  spiritual  intensity  throughout  the 
world.  He  thinks  of  himself  as  merely 
being  in  the  service  of  the  Lord. 

"I'm  a  tool  of  God.  I  can't  explain  my- 
self except  by  the  supernatural,"  so  says 
the  most  efEective  orator  in  the  church 
today.  And  he  concludes:  "If  God  were  to 
take  His  hands  off  me,  my  lips  v/ould  turn 
to  clay." 


you  can 


win  a  present 
from  your 
favorite  star 


IN  NOVEMBER 


PHOTOPLAY 


MAGAZINE 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 


PHOTOPLAY 


50  FABULOUS  PRIZES 

including : 

high  fidelity  phonograph 

cedar  chest 

luggage  ensemble 

52-piece  silver  plate  service  for  8 

diamond  and  sapphire  bracelet 

cultured  pearls 

record   album 


from  50  Paramount 
m,otion  picture  stars 


including: 

DORIS  DAY 
DEBRA  PAGET 
BEN  COOPER 
BING  CROSBY 
YVONNE 

DeCARLO 
CHARLTON 

HESTON 


JOHN  DEREK 

MITZI  GAYNOR 

JIMMY  STEWART 

ROSALIND 
RUSSELL 

GEORGE  GOBEL 

ANNE  BAXTER 


91 


il 


.'}2 


ENJOY  A  PERMANENT, 
KSIG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 

Sl\  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.    No  age  limit. 

FOR    FREE   LESSON   and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


I   Post   Groducrte  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing 
9D1 15  Auditorium  BIdq. 

I  Chicago  5.  Illinois 


Name. 


I   Address. 


l_ 


City State. 


Home  at  First  Sight 


High  School  Course 

at  Home 


...jny  Finish  in  2  Years 

rapidly  aa  your  time  und  abilities  permit.     Equivalent  to  rcai- 
K-lioo!   work~preDurc8  for   college   entrance  exama.      Standard 
..    ...    texts  supplied.     Diploma  awarded.     Credit  for  H.  S.  subjeete 
■ompleted.     Single  eubjects  if  desired.     Aek  for  Free  Bidletin. 

American  School.  Dept.  H853.  Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37 


TC7KEN  PHOTOS 


luxurious,  silk  finish  Wallet 
Size . .  2  '/j  X  3  'A . .  STUDIO  Quality 
$if    MONEY  BACK 
for      I      GUARANTEE 

Civ*  to  fritndf,  ctcnsmcriM,  rcloHvM.   Ui*  for 

cell*g«,   •mploymenf,    posiport   oppllcatiom, 

S«nd  Monsy  and  Photo  to 

WALLET  PHOTOS,  BoxD26-115,  Hillside,  N.J 


24 '.'*1 


SHORTHANDjN 

Famous  SPEEDWRITING  shorthand.  120 
words  per  minute.  No  symbols;  no  machines. 
Uses  ABC's.  Easiest  to  learn,  write,  trans- 
cribe. Lowest  cost.  300,000  taught  by 
niall.  TvpinK  available.  33rd  Year.  Write 
for  FREE  booklet  to: 


TOWELS^ 


.Most  terrific  towel  value  In  U.  S. !  When  you  buy  10  of 
these  wonderful,  new,  full-size  towels  made  of  unwoven 
rayon  and  cotton  for  only  Sl.OO,  we'll  send  TEN  MORE 
tor  .'ic-or  TWENTY  In  all  for  S1.05I  Others  charge  Sl.OO 
tor  FIVE  Towels!  But  order  TODAY  while  supply  lasts! 
Make  wonderful  gifts.  Money-back  guarantee. 
TOWEL  SHOP,  Dept.  469,     Box,  881,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


'  You  can  get  relief  from  the 
strangllne;,  choking  attacks 
of  bronchial  asthma  by  inhal- 
ing the  pleasant  medicated 
fumes  of  Dr.  R.  Schlffmann's 
ASTHMADOR,  leading  inhalant 
treatment.  Recommended  by 
I  your  druggist  in  the  U.S.  or 
Canada-in  cigarette,  powder 
or  pipe  mixture  form. 

ASTHMADOR 


{Continued  from  page  47) 
and  maid's  room  and  bath.  And  on  still 
another  level  is  the  utility  room,  with 
plenty  of  space  for  me  to  set  up  a  hobby 
room.  It's  an  interesting  arrangement,  and 
makes  the  house  seem  even  roomier." 

The  Sterlings  like  modern  furnishings, 
but  not  tortured,  twisted  shapes  or  sharply 
angular  pieces.  They  go  for  "functional" 
furniture,  with  clean,  simple  lines  designed 
for  modern  ways  of  living.  It's  the  kind 
they  bought  for  their  New  York  apart- 
ment, always  with  a  house  in  mind,  and 
most  of  it  fitted  right  into  the  new  home 
as  if  specially  planned  for  every  space. 
The  color  schemes  are  partially  an  echo 
of  the  apartment  they  left.  Both  Jack  and 
Barbara  love  blue.  But,  instead  of  the 
military  blue  of  their  old  living  room,  the 
walls  of  the  new  one  are  Dresden  blue, 
with  some  gray  in  it,  with  which  the  rugs 
they  already  had  blend  beautifully. 

Their  own  bedroom  is  mostly  in  soft 
moss  green,  and  for  the  nursery  they  chose 
a  light  yellow  which  brings  a  feeling  of 
sunlight  into  the  room  on  the  rainiest  day. 
Although  it  may  be  a  little  early  to  worry 
about  it,  Barbara  has  already  provided 
equal  space  for  each  small  daughter's 
possessions.  Patty  Ann  has  had  her  own 
wardrobe  and  three  drawers  since  the 
beginning,  and  now  Bethie  has  hers,  too, 
exactly  like  Patty's. 

The  kitchen  is  birch-paneled,  and  here, 
too,  the  sun  seems  to  stream  in  all  day, 
every  day,  because  of  the  bright  yellow 
trim.  Even  the  stove  and  refrigerator  are 
in  yellow.  Barbara's  great  joy  is  her  re- 
cessed oven,  built  into  the  wall,  and  a 
particularly  handsome  floor  linoleum  in 
black,  with  a  multi-color  splatter. 

The  Sterlings  are  neighborly  folks,  and 
Patty  Ann  has  already  made  friends  with 
everyone  around.  Jack  is  a  man  who  has 
always  loved  meeting  people.  In  fact,  it's 
one  of  the  reasons  he  has  so  much  en- 
joyed his  panel  show.  Make  Up  Your 
Mind,  now  on  the  air  two  years,  still  going 
strong,  and  getting  better  and  better.  On 
it  there  is  one  guest  celebrity  each  day 
and  one  guest  from  the  studio  audience, 
besides  regular  panelists  Edith  Walton  and 
John  S.  Young.  For  the  gregarious  Mr. 
Sterling  the  spontaneous  fifteen-minute 
program  is  just  a  ball.  It's  the  reason,  too, 
why  he  loves  his  morning  show,  on  which 
he  talks  to  many  unseen  listeners  each  day. 
And  he's  completely  sold  on  the  friendli- 
ness of  circus  people,  practically  all  of 
whom  have  appeared  at  some  time  on 
Jack's  Big  Top  program. 

As  this  is  written,  the  Sterling  family  is 
sure  to  be  getting  a  dog  of  some  kind,  at 
any  moment,  but  just  what  breed  is  still 
a  mystery.  Jack's  animal-trainer  friends 
want  to  see  that  he  gets  just  the  right 
kind  of  dog,  and  everyone  has  a  different 
idea  about  it.  Barbara  would  not  be  sur- 
prised, however,  if  he  comes  home  some- 
day with  a  lion  cub  in  tow,  or  a  tiny 
monkey — and  certainly  a  pony  isn't  out- 
side the  realm  of  possibilities.  Even  the 
radio  listeners  have  offered  pets,  and  any 
day  it  could  rain  kittens-and-pups! 

Jack's  radio  listeners  heard  a  lot  about 
the  pending  arrival  of  a  second  child  for 
the  Sterlings,  even  before  they  heard  about 
the  new  house.  Some  of  the  same  listeners 
who  had  sent  little  gifts  when  Patty  Ann 
was  born  now  duplicated  them  for  Bethie, 
although  this  time  the  Sterlings  were 
really  expecting  a  "John  Robert" — to  be 
named  John  for  his  daddy  Jack  and  Robert 
for  Robert  MacGregor  Senior  and  Junior, 
Barbara's  dad  and  brother.  (They're  still 
saving  the  name!)  Lots  of  listeners  must 
have  hoped  for  a  boy,  too,  because  they 


sent  so  many  things  in  blue — and  con- 
gratulatory cards  trimmed  in  the  tradi- 
tional "boy's"  color.  Mrs.  McGettrick,  a 
long-time  fan  of  Jack's  programs  who  is 
partially  blind,  knitted  sweet  little  sweat- 
ers and  bonnets  and  bootees.  There  were 
knitted  and  crocheted  blankets  and  car- 
riage covers,  and  other  sweater  and  bootee 
sets,  and  many  toys  and  rattles,  all  gifts 
of  love  from  faithful  listeners  who  wanted 
to  help  welcome  the  new  baby. 

Having  two  daughters  so  close  together 
in  age  pleases  the  Sterlings — except  that 
there  isn't  the  saving  in  clothes  which 
Barbara  expected.  "Bethie  weighed  in  at 
birth  at  8  pounds,  5  ounces,  but  Patty  Ann 
had  been  only  6  poimds,  10  ounces.  AH  her 
baby  things  were  too  small  for  her  little 
sister.  If  anything,  it  looks  as  though  our 
older  daughter  may  be  wearing  the  hand- 
me-downs  after  a  while." 

Ihe  whole  business  of  introducing  a  new 
baby  into  a  home  where  the  first  child 
was  still  such  a  baby  became  quite  a  prob- 
lem for  a  time.  Patty  Ann  was  too  young 
to  be  prepared  for  the  coming  of  another 
baby,  and  all  she  knew  was  that  suddenly 
Bethie  was  there,  a  demanding  stranger 
to  upset  things.  When  she  first  saw  her 
little  sister,  she  began  to  kick  her  feet 
together  joyously  over  this  new  "live"  doll. 
But,  when  Barbara  picked  Bethie  up  and 
held  her,  Patty  wasn't  so  sure  she  liked 
that.  Now  all  this  has  straightened  out, 
and  no  one  treats  the  baby  with  more 
tenderness  or  gives  her  more  attention 
than  Patty  Ann  does. 

It  has  been  Archie,  the  parrakeet,  who 
has  felt  the  full  brunt  of  all  these  changes. 
Time  was  when  Archie  had  the  full  run 
of  the  Sterling  apartment,  and  could  light 
on  Jack's  shoulder  or  Barbara's  smooth 
brown  curls  at  will.  Then  Patty  Ann  came 
along,  and  he  had  to  be  caged  more  of 
the  time.  He  had  to  get  used  to  ducking 
when  she  lunged  for  his  bright  feathers 
through  the  gold  bars,  or  to  evading  her 
grabbing  little  fists  when  the  cage  door 
was  opened  and  he  could  wing  his  joyous 
way  about  the  room,  like  a  streak  of  bril- 
liant blue,  stopping  to  light  on  the  silver 
tea  service  in  the  dining  room  to  admire 
his  reflection  in  its  polished  sides.  Now 
Archie  chatters  to  himself  in  his  cage,  and 
Barbara  remembers  to  stop  and  talk  to 
him  whenever  she  can. 

They  sometimes  wonder  whether  Archie 
recognizes  that  familiar  voice  when  he 
hears  it  on  radio  or  television,  but  Barbara 
hasn't  been  able  to  figure  that  one  out  yet. 
Even  Patty  Ann,  while  she  stares  wide- 
eyed  at  her  daddy's  image  or  hears  his 
voice  on  radio,  seems  a  little  baffled. 

Patty  herself  is  a  tow-headed  youngster 
who  really  doesn't  look  like  either  of  her 
parents,  except  that  she  has  Barbara's  big 
slate-blue  eyes  and  her  serious  expression. 
Bethie  looks  more  like  her  daddy  every 
day,  and  is  beginning  to  have  some  of  his 
mannerisms.  The  Sterlings  want  their 
girls  to  be  as  "individual"  as  they  want  to 
be,  and  already  they  show  signs  of  having 
definite  personalities  of  their  own.  "We 
hope  to  give  them  good  educations  and 
religious  training,  and  a  happy  childhood 
to  remember  always.  Then  we  won't  be 
worried  about  what  they  will  do  with  their 
lives,"  Barbara  says.  "If  either  of  our 
daughters  wants  to  go  into  show  business, 
or  both  of  them,  their  daddy  and  I  will 
be  satisfied.  Whatever  they  want  to  do 
will  make  us  happy,  if  it  makes  them 
happy." 

AH  this  seems  a  long  way  off  right  now. 
And  it  really  is,  to  a  family  which,  like 
Bethie's  little  tree,  is  just  beginning  to  put 
down  roots  in  a  brand-new  home. 


Happiness  Knows  No  Season 


(Continued  from  page  41) 
the  bottom.  Spring,  on  vacation,  was  driv- 
ing with  her  sister  and  brother-in-law^ 
who  was  at  the  wheel — from  their  home  in 
Denver  to  Colorado  Springs.  The  sign  at 
the  foot  of  the  motmtain  range  had  read: 
"Danger — Proceed  at  Your  Own  Risk." 
Having  been  on  the  shelf  road  for  more 
than  an  hour,  Spring  now  thought  that  the 
sign  had  been  a  gross  understatement. 

The  next  sign  read:  "Hairpin  Curves — 
Caution."  Riding  around  the  curves,  with 
the  road  apparently  gone  from  under  them, 
Spring  had  the  sensation  that  the  car  was 
flying.  This  time,  she  thought:  They're 
called  "hairpin"  because  that's  just  how 
wide  they  are! 

But  the  "thought"  lines  disappeared  in 
a  moment.  It  is  not  Spring  Byington's  na- 
ture to  worry.  She  has  always  felt  that, 
when  presented  with  a  problem,  you  do 
what  you  can — and  what  you  can't  change, 
you  accept  graciously.  Spring  knew  her 
brother-in-law  to  be  a  good  driver,  and 
no  amount  of  worrying  was  going  to  make 
that  abyss  any  less  deep.  So  she  forgot 
about  it.  With  her  soft  hair  blowing  deli- 
cately in  the  breeze  from  the  side  window. 
Spring  once  again  began  to  appreciate  the 
scenic  wonders  of  the  canyon. 

Spring  says:  "When  we  were  home  again 
in  Denver,  my  brother-in-law  asked  me 
if  I  had  been  scared  going  around  the 
cur\'es.  I  told  him,  "Yes,  I  had  a  few 
palpitations — but,  long  ago,  I  gave  up  the 
idea  of  being  frightened  at  being  fright- 
ened. Go  ahead  and  be  frightened,  say  I — 
so  what!  Nothing  I  could  do  about  that 
canyon  was  going  to  make  it  any  less  deep. 
Once  you  accept  it,  it  isn't  half  so  bad.' " 

Accepting  problems  graciously' — and  do- 
ing what  you  can  about  them — is  the  basis 
of  Spring's  philosophy  of  life.  Nothing  you 
can  do,  for  example,  will  keep  the  sun 
from  rising  in  the  morning  and  setting  at 
night — nothing  will  keep  the  years  from 
following  one  another. 

"When  you  stop  having  new  ideas,  when 
V'ou  lose  interest,  or  when  you're  afraid 
to  do  something  new,"  she  says,  "that's 
when  you've  grown  old.  It  can  happen 
when  you  are  thirty,  forty,  or  sixty.  I've 
always  felt  you  can  measure  people's 
youth  by  the  variety  of  their  interests." 

In  this  regard,  as  in  many  others.  Spring 
Byington  and  December  Bride's  Lily  are 
much  alike.  Lily  and  Spring  are  sisters 
under  the  skin — still  curious,  eager  and 
alive.  "Though  I  have  no  yearning  at  all 
to  be  young,"  she  says,  "I  do  have  a  great 
yearning  to  be  ageless.  Why  look  back? 
You  can't  do  anything  about  the  past,  but 
you  certainly  can  do  something  about  the 
future — for  that's  the  direction  in  which 
we're  all  going.  There  is  always  some- 
thing new  in  the  future." 

When  writer  Parke  Levy  created  De- 
cember Bride,  the  part  of  Lily  was  drawn 
as  a  picture  of  his  own  beloved  mother- 
in-law.  Spring  Byington,  eyes  forever 
looking  to  tomorrow,  was  obviously  per- 
fect for  the  role.  After  playing  Lily  for 
one-and-a-half  years  on  radio,  Spring  was 
eager  to  get  into  television. 

Though  the  work  is  trying  and  arduous. 
Spring  says,  "I've  never  been  happier.  I've 
never  enjoyed  life  as  much  as  I  do  today. 
But,"  she  continues,  "there  is  a  time  to  do 
everything — a  time  to  be  doing  and  a  time 
to  be  resting.  True,  you  should  have  a 
variety  of  interests,  but  one  of  them  should 
be  that  completely  blank  period  which  you 
set  aside  for  yourself.  You  do  absolutely 
nothing — I  call  it  vegetating.  You  are  calm 
and  sJone,  simply  relaxing  with  yourself." 

Spring  had  just  such  a  private  time  on 
her    recent    vacation   trip    to    her    sister's 


home  in  Denver,  Colorado.  "My  sister 
Helene  and  my  brother-in-law,"  she  says, 
"are  the  world's  two  best  assistant  'vege- 
taters.'  They  make  absolutely  no  appoint- 
ments for  me.  We  just  sit  in  the  back- 
yard— the  most  beautiful  yard  in  the  world, 
with  the  most  beautiful  green  lawn,  the 
most  beautiful  clouds  in  the  most  beautiful 
sky,  and  the  most  congenial  companions. 
We  vegetate.  We  simply  hide  there  like 
chipmunks  in  our  secret  little  holes. 

"But,"  Spring  says,  "you  don't  have  to 
wait  for  vacations  to  make  these  dates 
with  yourself.  If  someone  calls,  you  sim- 
ply say,  "I've  got  this  absolutely  unbreak- 
able appointment.'  You  needn't  feel  you've 
told  a  white  lie,  for  it's  true.  You  must 
keep  these  dates  with  yourself.  Some 
people  play  games  for  recreation.  My 
recreation  comes  from  the  relaxing  in 
these  quiet  times.  I  call  this  period  with 
myself  're-creation.' " 

In  contrast  with  periods  of  complete 
rest.  Spring's  attitude  toward  her  work  is 
equally  all-out — her  philosophy  here  sim- 
ply is  to  "forge  ahead."  Spring  says,  "I 
iselieve  I  learned  this  from  my  mother. 
Wherever  work  was  concerned,  she  had 
that  quality   of  going  straight  ahead. 

"I've  always  felt  my  mother  was  very 
much  like  Madame  Curie — though  mother 
was  a  Canadian  and  Madame  Curie  a 
Pole,  they  were  cut  out  of  the  same  piece 
of  cloth.  They  had  the  same  quality  of 
forging  ahead.  Mother  had  a  great  scien- 
tific curiosity,  forever  trying  to  find  out 
how  things  got  to  be  the  way  they  were. 
At  the  same  time,  she  was  not  unfeminine. 

"My  parents  came  from  Port  Hope  in 
Ontario,  Canada,  to  Denver  befoi'e  Helene 
and  I  were  born.  My  father  was  to  be  the 
new  professor  of  English  at  Colorado  Col- 
lege, and  later  became  the  Superintendent 
of  Schools.  Since  my  mother  had  little  to 
keep  her  occupied,  she  went  down  to  the 
college  with  my  father  and  took  a  pre- 
medical  course — iust  for  fun. 

"When  I  was  four  years  old,  Helene  and 
I  were  visiting  my  Grandfather  Byington 
in  Port  Hope  when  suddenly  my  father 
died.  My  mother  settled  our  affairs  in 
Colorado,  then  returned  to  Canada.  While 
Helene  and  I  shifted  from  Grandfather 
Byington's  to  Grandfather  Cleghorn's  to 
Aunt  Margaret's  to  Aunt  Inez's,  mother 
was  continuing  her  medical  studies  at  the 
University  of  Toronto.  She  later  did  her 
graduate  work  in  Boston  and,  when  she 
finally  had  her  medical  degree,  we  all  re- 
turned to  Colorado. 

"But  I  remember  those  early  years  as  in 
a  dream.  Though  the  constant  shifting 
back  and  forth  shattered  our  feelings  of 
security,  the  new  sights,  sounds  and  smells 
remain  as  my  most  vivid  and  fondest  mem- 
ories. Canada,  for  example,  has  the  most 
deUcious  snow  aooles — little  red  apples 
with  snow-white  flesh  and  tiny  red  veins 
running  through  them.  We  used  to  eat 
them  with  beechnuts.  They  tasted  like  no 
other  apples  in  the  world.  And  the  violets 
in  Canada — I'm  sure  no  violets  like  those 
exist  anywhere  else  on  earth!  They  were 
so  dehciously  fragrant,  you  could  put  iust 
a  few  in  a  room,  and  you'd  know  they 
were  there  the  moment  you  entered. 

"As  for  Canadian  maple  syrup^-my 
goodness!  I  know  the  people  in  Vermont 
are  proud  of  their  maple  syrup,  too,  but 
the  syrup  we  took  from  the  trees  in  front 
of  my  grandfather's  house  was  like  none 
other  I've  ever  tasted. 

"When  I  was  only  five  years  old,  it  was 
my  job  to  bring  in  the  buckets  of  fresh 
sap  every  morning.  I  remember  the  ro- 
mance of  that  first  adventure  when  I 
watched,    big-eyed,    as    my     grsindfather 


Gives  Special  Kind  of 
'Comforting  Warmth'  for 

KIDS'  CHESr 
COLDS 


Promptly  Relieves  Coughs  and  Loosens 
Local  Congestion  —  Aching  Muscles 

Child's  Mild  Musterole  —  made  es- 
pecially for  kiddies'  tender  skin  — 
forms  a  special  protective  "com- 
forting warmth"  on  chest,  throat 
and  back.  It  helps  prevent  kiddies 
from  suffering  distress  all  during 
the  night. 

Musterole  is  highly  recommended 
among  baby  doctors  to  promptly 
relieve  coughs  and  aching  muscles. 
It  starts  right  in  to  loosen  conges- 
tion in  the  nose,  throat  and  large 
bronchial  tubes,  bringing  amazing 
relief.  There's  also  Regular  and 
Extra  Strong  for  adults.  Stainless. 
Buy  it  today! 

%^  MUSTEROLE 


.@. 


$3  BUYS  AMAZING  BARGAIN! 

Sensational  news  for  Radio-TV  Mirror  readers: 
Send  S3  today  with  coupon  below  and  you  will  re- 
ceive 17  exciting  months  of  Radio-TV  Mirror 
(saving  you  81-25  over  regular  price)  plus  a  copy 
of  the  amazing  and  revealing  book:  Marilyn  Mon- 
roe's Beauty  Secrets.  Yes,  Marilyn  Tells  ALL! 
Discover  <\-hat  allures  men.  what  magnetic  attrac 
tion  this  gorgeous  Hollywood  Star  possesses!  Jus 
send  S3,  cash,  check  or  money  order  for  youi 
Bargain  Radio-TV  Mirror  subscription — and  fo: 
your  prompt  action,  we'll  send  this  unusual  gif 
FREE.  Don't  delay.  Offer  limited  to  small  numbei 
of  gift  books  on  hand.   Sorry,   U.S.A.  sales  only 


■MAIL  COUPON   TODAY- 


Radio-TV  Mirror,  Gift  Dept.  MMB 
205  E.  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17,  N.  Y. 

Send  me  MAKILTN  MOXROE'S  BEAt'TT  SECRETS 

Free,  and  send  17  months  of  Radio-TV  Mirror  besides. 
I  enclose  $3  as  payment  in  full. 


Name 

Address 

City Zone State . 


93 


94 


bored  a  hole  in  the  trees  in  front  of  the 
house,  inserting  the  Uttle  shelf  the  sap 
dripped  from.  He  didn't  tap  each  tree 
every  year,  but  rotated  them.  He  said  that 
resting  the  trees  was  his  secret — and  the 
reason  why  his  maple  syrup  tasted  so  good. 
"Remembering  how  good  the  maple 
syrup  tasted,  I  couldn't  wait  to  get  my 
finger  in  the  drippings  when  I  collected 
the  buckets  that  first  morning.  Oh,  was  I 
disappointed!  But  I  learned  that  maple 
syrup  doesn't  develop  its  delicious  flavor 
until  after  it's  boiled. 

"With  the  big  trees  in  front,  Grand- 
father Byington's  house  was  a  regular 
Currier-and-Ives  print.  It  wasn't  enor- 
mous, but  it  was  roomy.  There  were  six 
rooms  downstairs,  plus  the  kitchen  and  a 
greenhouse  outside.  It  had  been  built  by 
my  grandfather  and  my  father,  and  was 
a  very  pleasant  house  to  live  in,  for  it  had 
been  built  for  comfort.  There  was  a  sit- 
ting room  and  two  other  rooms  on  the 
north  side  with  great  high  ceilings  built 
for  summer  comfort.  These  were  shut  off 
in  the  winter  and  we  didn't  try  to  heat 
them.  I  remember  it  grew  very  cold  in 
the  winter,  but  I  enjoyed  it.  I  went  to  bed 
at  night,  in  my  little  bedroom  upstairs, 
just  waiting  for  the  morning — when  I 
peeked  out  from  under  my  covers  at  the 
frost  on  the  wall,  shining  in  the  first  sun 
like  a  kaleidoscope!  The  whole  wall  was 
a  flood  of  rainbow  colors. 

"Then  there  was  Grandfather  Cleg- 
horn's  house.  For  a  six-year-old,  the  most 
fascinating  part  of  the  house  was  the  cel- 
lar. It  smelled  wonderful!  It  was  lined 
with  shelves  and  filled  with  barrels  of 
carrots  and  beets  and  potatoes  all  care- 
fully wrapped  in  leaves  which  supplied 
just  the  right  amount  of  moisture. 

"Only  a  dim  filtered  light  illuminated 
the  cellar.  Helene  and  I  put  planks  from 
block  to  block  that  we  ran  and  played  on. 
In  the  dim  light,  the  barrels  were  our 
imaginary  castles,  the  planks  were  our 
ribbons  of  highway,  and  the  four-inch 
deep  water  was  our  dangerous  ocean.  It 
was  a  dim-lit  fairyland  of  smells. 

"Then  there  was  Aunt  Margaret's  and 
Uncle  Eugene's  place  in  Claremont.  Clare- 
mont  was  then  only  a  crossroad  with  a 
population  of  300.  Uncle  Gene  was  the 
principal  of  the  district  school  and  Aunt 
Margaret  one  of  two  teachers  who  each 
taught  three  grades.  Children  came  on 
foot  and  horse  from  all  the  outlying  com- 
munities to  Uncle  Gene's  school. 

"Their  house  was  eater-cornered  from 
MacNabb's  General  Store — in  fact,  until 
they  moved  across  the  street,  the  house 
used  to  be  the  general  store!  The  ware- 
house was  still  next  door  and  Helene  and 
I  shared  the  large  sleeping  room  above  it. 
Oh,  what  eloquent  smells  came  up  to  us 
from  that  warehouse!  Sorghum,  sugar, 
kerosene,  dried  apples! 

"The  room  was  no  ordinary  room — it  was 
at  least  forty  feet  by  forty  feet,  and  grand 
for  us  to  play  in.  As  a  combination 
rumpus  and  sleeping  room,  it  was  perfect 
for  kids.  When  we  had  the  measles,  we 
could  lie  in  bed  and  be  sick  together.  We 
could  paint,  play,  sing,  pound  on  the 
drums.  And,  since  nobody  was  below  to 
bother,  we  could  even  roller-skate.  In  the 
middle  of  the  room  there  stood  a  big  pot- 
bellied wood-burning  stove.  In  the  win- 
ter, it  was  our  warm  friend. 

"Downstairs  at  my  Aunt  Margaret's 
place  in  Claremont,  there  was  a  living 
room,  dining  room,  bedroom,  pantry, 
kitchen,  and  summer  kitchen.  Aunt  Mar- 
garet never  put  the  big  coal-burning  range 
on  in  summer  but  used  a  small  three- 
burner  coal  oil  stove  in  the  'summer 
kitchen.'  This  was  out  near  the  woodshed 
where  all  the  garden  tools  and  bulbs  were 
stored.  I  well  remember  the  cooking  smells 
combined  with  the  garden  smells — an  ex- 


otic combination.  The  woodshed  was 
shaded  by  another  big  maple  tree.  In  the 
early  summer,  Helene  and  I  picked  the 
first  garden  tomatoes,  took  a  salt-cellar 
with  us  and  hid  out  on  the  woodshed  roof. 
The  roof,  shaded  by  the  maple  tree,  was 
the  spot  where  we  spent  our  happiest  sum- 
mer days. 

"Our  Aunt  Inez  ran  a  boarding  house 
in  Toronto,  and  finally  we  went  to  stay 
with  her.  There  we  had  the  top  fourth 
floor  bedroom  with  a  connecting  terrace 
which,  on  three  sides,  met  the  long  slop- 
ing slate  roof.  From  the  terrace  we  could 
see,  or  imagine  we  could  see,  all  of  Tor- 
onto. It  was  like  being  in  our  own  heaven. 
Where  the  roof  met  the  terrace  there  were 
always  little  bits  of  broken  slate.  Helene 
and  I  took  these,  drawing  as  with  chalk 
on  the  slate  roof.  As  far  as  our  little  arms 
would  reach,  we  peopled  this  cloudy  world 
of  ours  with  fairies,  ogres,  and  our  own 
breed  of  cats  and  dogs." 

Psychologists  say  that  children  need  a 
definite  home  where  they  are  given  a  feel- 
ing of  belonging,  a  sense  of  security,  but 
the  constant  shifting  from  home  to  home 
made  it  difficult  for  Spring  to  develop  this 
security.  "The  Canadian  way  of  life,"  she 
says,  "is  very  much  like  the  New  Elngland 
way  of  life.  There  are  proper  things  to 
do,  and  definite  things  not  to  do. 

"Whenever  Helene  and  I  came  into  a 
new  environment,  it  was  always  different 
from  the  last  place — at  least  physically 
different.  And  we  didn't  know  which  so- 
cial customs  were  accepted  and  which  re- 
jected. As  children,  we  only  knew  that 
what  we  had  once  learned  and  held  dear 
had  gone.  We  didn't  know  where  it  had 
gone — it  had  simply  disappeared. 

"Bad  as  the  shifting  was  for  our  security, 
it  was  equally  good  for  our  mental  flexi- 
bility. We  had  to  learn  to  adapt  to  new 
situations.  It  taught  us  to  be  flexible — 
an  important  attitude  in  a  world  changing 
as  rapidly  as  ours.  I  learned  early  in  my 
life  that  you  can't  insist  on  everything 
being  today  as  it  was  yesterday." 

When  Spring's  mother  finished  her  med- 
ical education  in  Boston,  she  returned  with 
her  family  to  Denver  to  set  up  practice. 
A  few  years  later.  Spring  remembers  going 
to  her  mother  and  saying,  "Mother,  I  want 
to  be  an  actress."  Her  mother  merely  said, 
"All  girls  do.  .  .  ." 

But  Spring  was  insistent  and,  finally, 
Mrs.  Byington  gave  her  an  introduction 
to  a  family  friend,  Mrs.  Elitch  Long,  then 
responsible  for  the  famous  Elitch  Gardens 
Summer  Stock  Company.  Mrs.  Long  tried 
to  dissuade  Spring,  explaining  the  diffi- 
culty of  an  actress's  life.  But,  after  the 
conversation.     Spring     could     only     say, 


raaip 


"Thank  you,  but  I  still  want  to  be  an 
actress!"  So  Mrs.  Long  ^ave  Spring  a  note 
to  the  stock  company's  director,  and  in 
the  first  week  Spring  had  a  line  to  read. 
Asked  about  the  title  of  the  show  that 
first  summer.  Spring  replies,  "Title!  Who 
remembers  the  title?  It  was  the  line  that 
was  important  .  .  .  and  I'll  never  forget 
it — 'They  say  it's  raining.'  Why,  it  was 
the  most  important  line  in  the  play!" 

The  following  June,  Spring  graduated 
from  high  school,  and  she  and  a  handful 
of  other  youiig  people  from  the  Elitch 
Garden  Summer  Stock  Company  went  out 
on  their  own.  One  of  the  boys  had  in- 
herited five  hundred  dollars  and  with  it 
purchased  the  royalty  rights  to  a  French 
play,  taking  it  on  the  road.  Money  ran 
out  in  Kansas,  and  Spring  moved  into  a 
one-room  apartment  with  two  other  girls 
from  the  company  and  began  job-hunting. 

"I  took  $17.50,"  she  recalls,  "my  bus  fare 
back  to  Denver — and  tacked  it  under  the 
rug  for  safe  keeping.  I  was  determined 
to  find  another  acting  job,  but  I  didn't 
want  to  be  left  stranded  in  Kansas.  I  went 
from  theater  to  theater,  but  nothing  hap- 
pened. I  was  down  to  my  last  dollar  when 
another  touring  company  came  to  town, 
and  one  of  the  women  in  the  cast  had  to 
be  replaced.    I  got  the  job." 

Spring's  attitude  toward  her  career 
parallels  her  philosophy  of  life.  She  has 
always  done  what  she  could,  and  what  she 
couldn't  change  she  accepted  graciously. 
The  actor's  ego,  for  example,  has  never 
been  a  problem  with  Spring — she  has  al- 
ways been  willing  to  work,  no  matter  how 
small  the  part.  "Sometimes,"  she  says, 
"young  people  come  to  Hollywood  or  New 
York  after  having  some  small  success  in 
a  local  company.  Their  attitude  is,  'I  will 
only  take  a  job  if  such-and-such  a  condi- 
tion is  met.  .  .  .' 

"My  feeling  is,  this  attitude  is  wrong. 
If  you  are  interested  in  your  work,  your 
desire  to  do  a  good  job  comes  first,  your 
self-importance  comes  last." 

This  philosophy  was  well  illustrated 
when,  after  traveling  briefly  with  the  tour- 
ing company,  Spring  first  came  to  New 
York  with  a  small  inheritance  from  her 
mother.  She  took  every  job  offered  to  her, 
so  long  as  it  had  to  do  with  the  stage.  This 
attitude  earned  Spring  a  reputation  as  a 
hard  worker  and  brought  her  to  Holly- 
wood in  1933.  She  was  still  in  New  York 
when  Paramount  began  casting  their  ever- 
famous  "Little  Women,"  and  were  looking 
for  someone  to  play  "Marmee."  Stuart 
Walker,  who  knew  Spring  from  the  stage 
said,  "Ask  Spring  Byington — she'll  be  will- 
ing to  play  'Marmee,'  the  aunt,  or  the  dog. 
She'll  play  anything!"  Spring  played 
"Marmee." 

Today,  a  grandmother.  Spring  is  work- 
ing in  the  arduous  medium  of  television, 
and  enjoying  life  more  than  ever.  It  seems 
that  the  hard  work  demanded  in  TV  was 
made  for  her.  In  addition  to  television, 
she  has  still  seen  fit  to  add  to  her  variety 
of  interests:  Spring  Byington  is  learning 
how  to  fly! 

When  people  ask  her  if  she  isn't  afraid 
of  the  new  things  in  life— such  as  flying 
or  acting  in  the  new  medium  of  TV — 
Spring  replies:  "I  have  no  patience  with 
people,  who,  when  their  hair  turns  gray, 
think  there  is  nothing  else  to  learn,  no 
new  fields  to  explore — who  ignore  the  fu- 
ture and  continue  to  live  their  life  of  yes- 
terday. 

"Or,  worse  still,  they  sit  around  and 
worry  about  getting  old!  If  there's  one 
thing  I've  learned,  it's  this:  With  prob- 
lems, you  do  what  you  can — those  you 
can't  change,  you  accept  graciously.  We 
can  do  nothing  in  the  world  about  the 
passing  years — but  we  can  do  something 
about  today  and  keeping  tomorrow  alive. 
And  that's  the  secret  of  youth." 


Be  What  You  Want  To  Be 


(Continued  from  page  59) 
first  and  only  choice  for  the  leading  role. 

Foster  was  bom  beside  the  sea.  He 
grew  up  in  Pittman,  New  Jersey.  His 
father  was  a  fisherman  and  lifeguard.  Pres 
could  swim  before  he  could  walk,  and  as 
a  child  he  sold  fish  in  his  father's  shop. 
Since  childhood,  Preston  has  had  salt  wa- 
ter in  his  veins.  The  ocean's  driving  force 
is  matched  by  Preston's  own  determina- 
tion. As  a  child,  he  wanted  to  be  an  ac- 
tor, he  knew  he  would  be  an  actor,  he 
was  determined  to  be  an  actor.  Dustin 
"Dusty"  Famum  was  his  hero  and,  some- 
day, Pres  Scdd,  he,  too,  would  be  on  the 
screen. 

"If  you  know  Preston,"  says  his  wife 
Sheila,  "then  you're  not  surprised  to  find 
that  his  determination  made  him  a  suc- 
cess. But  it  wasn't  determination  alone — 
it  was  his  entire  philosophy  of  life.  You 
hear  a  lot  about  the  power  of  positive 
thinking.  Preston  has  been  thinking  up — 
thinking  constructively — ever  since  he  was 
a  kid.  His  success  as  an  actor  is  living 
proof  of  it.  People  laughed  at  him  when 
his  hero  was  still  Dustin  Farnum.  But  he 
never  stopped  believing  he'd  make  it. 

"His  formula  for  a  successful  life  in 
any  field?"  Sheila  hardly  pauses  to  con- 
sider, before  replying:  "Point  one,  have 
confidence  in  yourself — and,  two,  refuse  to 
think  yourself  down.  His  life  is  one  long 
story  of  doing  things  people  said  he 
couldn't  do." 

People  generally  cocked  a  tolerant  eye 
at  young  Preston  for  wanting  to  become 
an  actor.  Saturday  afternoons,  with  no 
place  to  go,  he  dressed  up  in  his  father's 
best  clothes — derby  hat  to  spats — and  stood 
on  the  street  comer  leaning  against  the 
Ught  post  practicing  the  gestures  of  his 
hero  Dusty  Famum.  Preston  was  acting. 
People  referred  to  him  as  "that  Foster 
feUa." 

Not  everybody  laughed  at  Preston.  Lew 
Herschel,  working  companion  on  the  Phil- 
adelphia Ledger,  encouraged  him.  "Sure, 
Pidge,"  said  Herschel,  using  Foster's  early 
nickname,  "someday  you  will  be  a  big 
star  and,  when  you  are,  I'm  going  to  build 
the  world's  greatest  arena  for  you  to  per- 
form in."  After  twenty-two  years  of  writ- 
ing an  annual  letter  back  and  forth, 
"Pidge"  Foster  and  Lew  Herschel  (now 
with  the  Washington  Post  Times  Herald) 
recently  got  together  with  their  families 
for  a  visit  in  Las  Vegas.  Pres  said:  "So 
Where's  the  arena?" 

xreston  left  high  school  in  his  third 
year.  He'd  been  dismissed  for  injudicious 
(though  ingenious)  use  of  a  firehose  at  a 
school  dinner.  When  he  left,  his  dad  wasn't 
too  happy  with  the  acting  career  he  was 
aiming  for.  But  his  mother  said,  "We've 
taught  you  right  from  wrong.  You're 
grown  now.  Go  ahead,  do  what  you  think 
is  right."  Later,  when  he  played  "heavies" 
on  the  screen,  his  mother  asked:  "Oh, 
Pres,   do   you  have   to   play   those   parts!" 

"They  pay  the  rent,"  said  Preston,  "and 
the  landlord  doesn't  care  what  kind  of  a 
role  you  play  to  earn  the  money." 

After  seeing  the  first  Waterfront  film  on 
TV,  his  mother  wrote:  "Oh,  Pres,  at  last 
you're  playing  yourself!" 

Before  riding  the  crest  of  success  in  act- 
ting,  Preston  Foster  worked  at  no  less  than 
fifty-six  different  jobs:  moving,  packing 
loading  and  unloading  phonographs  at  the 
Victor  Talking  Machine  Company,  driving 
a  bus,  selling  appliances  door -to- door, 
selUng  advertising  for  the  Camden  Courier, 
and,  later,  for  the  Philadelphia  Ledger. 

While  working  on  the  newspaper,  Pres- 
ton made  constant  weekend  trips  to  New 
York,  trying  to  get  a  break  as  an  actor. 


He  worked  as  an  extra  on  Paramount's 
Long  Island  lot  (with  Ginger  Rogers,  Gary 
Cooper,  and  Claudette  Colbert),  in  the 
chorus  of  the  Philadelphia  Opera,  and  on 
the  musical-comedy  stage.  One  Saturday, 
his  boss  at  the  Ledger  saw  him  in  a 
matinee  performance  of  "The  Miracle,'" 
when  Pres  should  have  been  out  selling 
advertising.  On  Monday,  he  said,  "Foster, 
you're  fired!" 

But  losing  his  job  was  no  new  experi- 
ence for  Preston.  In  the  course  of  his  climb 
to  success,  it  happened  more  than  fifty 
times — and,  each  time,  it  only  strengthened 
his  determination  to  succeed.  In  his  late 
teens,  Preston  began  working  more  stead- 
ily as  a  singer  in  the  opera's  chorus  than 
as  an  actor.  With  the  extra  money,  he 
began  studying  voice.  Taking  lessons  from 
the  best  teachers  available,  he  soon  grad- 
uated to  supporting  roles,  singing  in  "La 
Traviata,"  "Rigoletto,"  and  in  "Othello" 
(with  Tito  Ruffo),  when  he  was  coached 
by  Artur  Rodzinski. 

At  that  time,  most  of  Broadway's  per- 
formers, both  actors  and  singers,  turned 
their  noses  up  when  anyone  said,  "Holly- 
wood." But  not  Preston  Foster.  He'd  taken 
aim  at  the  screen,  and  he  was  determined 
to  get  there.  Finally,  in  1932,  Pres  landed 
the  second  lead  in  the  Broadway  play, 
"Two  Seconds."  It  was  seen  by  Mervyn 
LeRoy.  He  brought  Preston  and  the  play 
to  Hollywood,  where  Preston  enacted  the 
role  he  created  on  the  stage.  From  that, 
he  went  into  "The  Last  Mile" — "which 
picture,"  he  says,  "made  me."  (It  also  made 
Clark  Gable   and  Spencer  Tracy.) 

Preston  Foster's  success  in  motion  pic- 
tures is  now  history.  But  his  success  in 
the  field  of  music  is  not  so  well  known. 
Yet,  as  a  vocalist,  guitarist,  lyricist,  and 
composer,  a  growing  success  he  is.  Again, 
his  wife  Sheila  attributes  it  to  his  "up- 
beat" thinking:  Have  confidence  in  your- 
self, and  don't  think  yourself  down.  "When 
Pres  first  started  on  his  'home-made'  gui- 
tar," says  Sheila,  "some  folks  told  him  he 
would  have  a  hard  time  getting  music 
out  of  it.  Pres  said,  'We'll  see  .  .  .' 

"Preston's  interest  in  music,"  Sheila 
adds,  "began  when  he  was  only  ten  years 
old — he  took  three  months  of  violin  les- 
sons, paid  for  with  soap  coupons.  It  was 
then  he  learned  to  read  notes. 

"It  was  a  natural  step  from  the  violin 
to  the  ukulele — they  were  popular  at  the 
time.  He  knew  a  few  chords  but  gave  up 
the  instrument  when  he  took  up  singing. 
In  1941,  when  Pres  was  on  location  in 
Phoenix  for  'Thunderbirds,'  he  stopped 
in  a  music  store  and  was  fiddling  with  a 
uke  when  his  stand-in,  Harry  Mayo,  came 
in  and  asked,  'What's  a  big  guy  like  you 
doing,  plucking  on  that  dinky  instrument?' 

"  'I  was  thinking  of  buying  it,'  Pres  said. 
'I  played  one  when  I  was  a  kid.'  Harry 
talked  him  out  of  buying  it,"  Sheila  smiles, 
"but  not  without  a  longing  look.  Six  weeks 
later  he  was  celebrating  his  birthday  in 
Cedar  City  when  the  uke  was  presented  to 
him  as  a  gift,  and  Pres  soon  again  be- 
came adept  on  the  ukulele. 

"After  we  were  married  in  1946,  I 
bought  him  a  four-string  guitar  for  Christ- 
mas. I  thought  it  would  be  a  toy  like  the 
ukulele — but  I  was  mistaken. 

"My  own  hobby  had  always  been  music. 
When  I  was  a  kid  at  Los  Angeles  High 
School,  I  sat  in  the  Hollywood  Music 
Store  until  ten  every  night,  listening  to 
records.  I  made  a  list  of  the  recordings  I 
couldn't  live  without.  At  that  time  the 
list  totaled  $2000!  Before  I  ever  owned  a 
record  player,  I  started  my  collection. 

"I  knew  the  words  to  a  thousand  old 
songs,  so  Pres  and  I  combined  our  hobbies 


AJei/\/Mospffa/  Ptoof/ 


Gentle 
EX- LAX  HELPS 

your  child  toward 

HIS  NORMAL 
REGULARITY! 


AT  NIGHT,  give  him  NEXT  MORNING,  he'll 
good-tasting  EX-Lax  enjoy  the  closest  thing 
for  constipation.  Its  to  natural  action.  No  up- 
gentle  effective  action  set.  No  discomfort.  No 
won't  disturb  sleep.  embarrassing  urgency. 

THE  FOLLOWING  DAY,  EX-LAX  continues  to 
help  him  toward  his  normal  regularity!  He'll  sel- 
dom have  to  repeat  Ex-Lax  the  next  night! 
And  new  scientific  tests  in  one  of  the  world's 
largest  hospitals  again  prove  it. 


EX-LAX 

THE  CHOCOLATED  LAXATIVE 
Buy  New  Economy  Size! 


GOT  A  COLD  and 

need  a  laxative? 

Unlike  "hurry- 
up"  laxatives,  gen- 
tle Ex-Lax  "gets 
along"  with  cold 
remedies  you  take. 


MORE  PEOPLE  USE  EX-LAX  THAN  ANY  OTHER  LAXATIVE 


Bargain 

Radio-TV 

Mirror  Offer 


Big  opportunity!  Act  now.  get  17  months 
of  Radio-TV  Mirror  for  only  $3,  saving 
you  $1.25  over  newsstand  price.  Act  now, 
get  FBEE  gift  too.  Rush  name  and  ad- 
dress with  $3  to:  Radio-TV  Mirror,  Dept. 
MIMB  11-55,  205  E.  42  St.,  N.Y.  17.  N.Y. 


POWERFUL 


TV  ANTENNA 


'^Amazing  Television  Invention! 

Fits  Into  Palm  of  Your  Hand 
'ei^^^<^W\  AS  CLEAR  A  PICTURE  AS 

l^/T^  ^tf/ WITH  $35  ANTENNAS! 

'  '-^rWA    Installed  in  seconds!  Hidden 

From  View!  Thia  Powerfol 
Midget  outperforms  far  cost- 
lierantennas.  Weighsonly  fewozs.  Works 
onallfreqaencies.  Sensationalva!ue,$l. 

MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE 

Jonk  that  old  onsiBhtly  weak-polling  TV  Antenna  for  this 
handy,  newest  Evans  All  Frequency  TV  Antenna,  bee  the 
difference  immediately.  So  low-priced  yoQ  can  t  afford  to  be 
without  this 'Midget  Wonder. 'Mechanism  folly  concealed. 
— »«»-     Perfectforapts.whereootdoor  Antennaa  are  prohibited. 

Clip  This  Ad  and  Mail  with  Only  $1  plus  Dime  lor  Postage 

We'll  ship  postpaid  to  yoor  door.  If  not  delighted  with  Improved  TV 
reception,  retorn  in  10  days  for  foil  refond.  Order  for  yonrselt  and 
friends  today  while  this  BARGAIN  OFFER  remains  m  effect. 

EVANS  RADIO  CO.,  Dept.  50,  650  Asbury,  Evanston,  III. 


l\. 


r 


m 


PERMANENT  DARKENER' 

FOR  LASHES  AND   BROWS 

SWIMPROOF!  One  application  lasts 
4  to  5  weeks!  Our  22nd  year. 

•for  the  hairs  to  which  applied 

$1.00  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  'variety  chain  stores 


w 


Send  TODAY 
lor  TRIAL  S/ZE/ 


"DARK-EVES"  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-11S 
3319  W.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  111. 

t  enclose  25«  (coin  or  slomps-los  included)  lor  TRIAt  SIZE 
PACKAGE  of  "Dork-Eyes  "  with  directions. 

Check  shade:  Q  Black  Q  Brown 

Nome 


I 

I    Address. 

■  iTown 


-  I 

-  I 


95 


People  60  to  80 

We  Have  a  Letter 
We'd  Like  to  Send  You... 

.  .  .  but  we  don't  want  to  send  it 
without  your  permission ! 

It  will  tell  you  how  you  can 
apply  for  a  $1,000  life  insurance 
policy  to  help  take  care  of  iinal 
expenses  without  burdening  your 
family. 

And  you  can  handle  the  entire 
transaction  by  mail— with  OLD 
AMERICAN  of  KANSAS  CITY. 
No  obligation.  No  one  will  call! 

You  can  give  us  permission  to 
send  this  free  information  by  sim- 
ply mailing  a  postcard  or  letter 
(giving  age)  to  Old  American  Ins. 
Co.,  1  W.  9th,  Dept.  L1170M,  Kansas 
City,  Mo. 


^  How  to  Make  Money  with 
/^^>^  Simple  Cartoons ' 


J     A  book  everyone  who  likes  to  draw 
-''shogid  have.  It  Is  free;  no 


,     FREE 

obligation.  Simply  address  |   book 


ARTOONISTS-  EXCHANGE 
Dept.  59T1  Pleasant  Hill,  Ohro 


STOP  ^^D  WETTINGl 


End  embarrassment,  prevent  soiled  sheets, 
mattresses,  with  DRI-AL-NITE.  This  scien- 
tific preparation  is  SAFE,  HARMLESS,  for- 
mulated by  a  doctor,  prescribed  by  doctors. 
Complete  instructions  and  booklet  on  CAUSE 
of  bwiwetting  free  with  each  bottle  of  DRI- 
AL-NITE..  Money  back  guarantee.  4  oz. 
bottle — $2.00   at   your   druggist   or  postpaid 

from  GULF5TREAM  LABORATORIES 
20  N.  t  FIFTH  AVENUE       •       DELRAY  BEACH,  FLORIDA 


LEG   SUFFERERS 


FREE 

BOOKLET 


BWhy  continue  to  suffer  without  attempts 
iDg  to  do  something?  Write  today  tor  New 
Booklet — "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
HOME  USE."  It  tella  about  Varicose 
Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
used  whiU  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave., 
Dept  M-47,    Milwaukee   12,  Wiiconsin| 


MOTHERS!  $ 


5000 


A  SIMPLE  SNAPSHOT 

OF  A  LITTLE  GIRL  WON. 

Your  Child's   Picture  May  Be  Worth  Money  Too. 

Every  year  thousands  of  dollars  are  paid  by  Na- 
tional Advertisers  for  children's  pictures  for  cal- 
endars, magazines,  TV  commercials  and  contests. 
Send  only  ONE  small  picture  for  our  approval.  Print 
child's  name  and  parents'  name  and  address  on 
back.  Returned  in  30  days  with  free  details  on 
how   your   child's   picture   may  also   earn   money. 

SPOTLITE  PHOTO  MAGAZINE 

5880-KMW    HOLLYWOOD    BLVD., 
HOLLYWOOD   28,    CALIF. 


SUFFERERS 
FROM 


IJIiH 


(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE! 

^DeRmoiL 


SEE   FOR   YOURSELF 

no  matter  how  long  you 

have  suffered.  Write  for 

,  FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 

,  iUKl    DERMOIL    with 

actual  "before — after" 

i  ptioto  record  of  results. 


it 


\>* 


((J«" 


96 


Setu/ffvr 

VGENEROUS 

^TRIAL 

SIZE 


Don't  be  ombarrasfted 

with  Psoriasis,  tho  UKly,     \'-T^^' 

•caly    skin   disease.    Try     V,i,wv."^  . 

non.stalnlnc    DERMOIL.   >      ~«i**^ 

Arnazing  rcHults  rciiortcil 

for  over  22  yearn!  Many 

grateful    uhits    rcimrt    the 

Hculy  red  piilchi-ji  on  body  ^^^^^^^^    

orHcalpgrmlually  (llHaiipcared  and  lliejT^^^^^^"""" 
again  enjoyed  the  Uirlll  of  a  Brnooth  clear  skin.  DERMOIL 
fnnnijlu  1h  w/i-a\  by  many  dootorn.  Must  give  definite 
benclltor  your  money  back.  Miiki'  our  famous  "One  Snot 
Ifxt'l  HKNO  HI?  for  trial  iKitdc  DiaiMOIL  sold  at 
Liggett  and  Walgri'en  and  olhir  Ii-.'kIIhk  Drug  Stores 
Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.  1304 
...    ......    ^...... station,     Detroit     i.1.     Mich. 


3925     Strathmoor 


—on  location,  he  played  his  guitar  and  we 
both  sang.  Up  at  Zion,  where  he  was 
shooting  'Ramrod,'  he  sat  on  the  lawn  in 
the  evening,  playing  and  singing.  Part  of 
the  company  joined  in  on  the  folk  songs 
until  an  irate  would-be  sleeper  protested." 

Dynamic  Preston  Foster  has  never  done 
anything  halfway.  When  he  and  Sheila 
worked  together  on  their  singing,  he  was 
busy  rebuilding  his  guitar — it  didn't  give 
out  with  enough  "base,"  so  Pres  replaced 
the  fourth  string  with  one  from  a  cello. 
Some  people  said,  "You  can't  get  music 
from  that  setup.  Why  don't  you  take  les- 
sons and  do  this  thing  right?"  But  Preston 
evolved  his  own  method,  cello  string  and 
all,  and  taught  himself  to  play. 

Making  personal  appearances  in  theaters 
for  picture  openings  has  always  made 
Pres  feel  a  bit  helpless.  "You  walk  out 
and  say  hello,"  he  says,  "and  then  there's 
nothing  to  do.  So  Sheila  and  I  took  our 
guitar  to  a  San  Francisco  opening  and 
sang  a  few  songs  for  the  folks.  They  liked 
it.  It  just  so  happened  that  an  MCA  agent 
was  in  the  house,  and  we  soon  were  de- 
veloping an  'act'  that  was  in  demand." 

As  Preston  became  more  skillful  on  the 
guitar,  the  Fosters  began  adding  ballads, 
semi- classics  and  popular  tunes  to  their 
repertoire.  Preston  also  started  writing 
music,  making  special  arrangements  for 
them  to  sing. 

All  this  time,  Preston  would  take  his 
guitar  every  place  he  and  Sheila  went — 
to  parties,  benefits,  hospital  shows,  to  thea- 
ter openings  and  premieres  of  his  pictures. 
Even  while  traveling  on  trains,  the  guitar 
was  a  constant  companion.  It  was  a  short 
trip  that  didn't  find  the  porters,  stewards 
and  conductors  joining  in  on  "Jimmy 
Crack  Corn." 

It  was  one  way  Preston  got  Sheila  over 
her  stagefright,  at  the  same  time  finding 
out  what  people  like  to  hear.  The  act 
evolved  with  help  from  many  friends,  lis- 
tening to  each  addition,  giving  encour- 
agement and  constructive  criticism.  Hal 
Kantor,  Lee  Wayner,  and  other  top  writers 
helped  with  the  dialogue.  Lou  Bonnie 
made  the  orchestrations.  And  much  musi- 
cal aid  came  from  Gene  Leis  and  Perry 
Botkin.  Soon  Preston  and  Sheila  were 
playing  and  singing  at  theaters,  night 
clubs,  state  fairs,  and  special  events  all 
over  the  country. 

About  this  time,  Preston  made  a  won- 
derful discovery.  His  daughter,  Stephanie, 
then  thirteen  years  old,  had  a  fine  sing- 
ing talent — nearly  a  three-octave  natural 
range!  Inspired  by  her  father's  and  step- 
mother's enjoyment  and  success  with  mu- 
sic, she  begged  for  a  musical  career.  Pres- 
ton held  off  for  months,  while  he  told 
her  the  unglamorous  part  of  a  career: 
The  years  of  study  and  self-discipline  .  .  . 
the  problem  of  losing  your  private  life 
once  you  enter  public  life  .  .  .  that  in 
show  business  you  are  forever  looking 
for  a  job — because  any  job  you  get  is  soon 
over. 

But,  finally,  Preston  agreed  to  Stevie's 
wish,  placing  her  under  the  instruction  of 
Nina  Koshetz  and  Gary  Leonoff.  She  has 
been  with  them  two  and  a  half  years, 
progressing  far  enough  to  sing  in  two  con- 
certs, and  to  appear  with  Preston  and 
Sheila  at  a  dozen  or  more  benefits. 

Preston's  music  progressed,  too,  and  his 
compositions  began  finding  acceptance.  He 
and  Perry  Botkin  (Bing  Crosby's  guitarist 
and  arranger  for  many  years)  wrote  a  song 
about  an  Irish  cowboy  called  "Two  Shill- 
elagh O'Sullivan."  Perry  induced  Crosby 
to  record  it  for  Decca.  He  also  published 
"O'Sullivan"  and  other  compositions  by 
Preston,  helping  him  become  a  member  of 
ASCAP  (the  American  Society  of  Com- 
posers, Authors,  and  Publishers). 
I       "Picture  business  fell  off  in  1950,"  says 


Sheila.  "Whereas  a  studio  used  to  have 
twenty-two'  pictures  going,  they  then  pro- 
duced only  six  a  year.  A  lot  of  actors  were 
losing  their  cars  and  houses  and  moan- 
ing about  bad  times.  Not  Pres.  He  said, 
'I  can't  do  anything  about  the  motion  pic- 
ture industry,  but  I  can  do  something 
about  myself.'  He  took  his  guitar  and  we 
set  off  across  the  country  on  tour.  We 
played  clubs  and  shows  from  coast  to 
coast,  and  from  Canada  to  Mexico.  Just 
three  years  ago,  Pres  had  been  told  he 
wouldn't  get  anywhere  with  his  'home- 
made' setup  without  lessons.  Today,  he's 
become  the  highest  paid  guitar  player  in 
Local  47." 

When  Waterfront  came  along,  it  was 
natural  for  Preston  to  step  into  the  role 
of  Captain  John  Herrick.  But  the  addi- 
tional work  a  weekly  TV  show  requires 
did  not  keep  Preston  from  his  other  in- 
terests. 

While  shooting  Waterfront,  the  Fosters 
live  in  a  40-foot  RoUo-home  trailer  parked 
on  the  Hal  Roach  lot.  Pres  says,  "It  saves 
time.  At  the  most,  I  spend  thirty  seconds 
a  day  walking  to   and   from  work." 

"When  Pres  comes  in  for  lunch,"  says 
Sheila,  "the  first  thing  he  does  is  reach  for 
his  electric  guitar.  While  I  fix  lunch,  he 
writes  a  few  more  bars  on  the  song  he's 
composing,  or  we  run  over  one  of  our 
numbers.  At  dinner,  we  repeat  the  per- 
formance. And  usually  we  have  an  audi- 
ence— members  of  the  cast  or  crew  who 
drop  in  on  their  way  home  or  are  there 
to   discuss   tomorrow's   shooting. 

"Pres  even  works  while  relaxing — 
watching  TV  is  his  foremost  form  of  en- 
tertainment. First,  we  watch  all  the  musi- 
cals. Here  Pres  has  his  guitar  in  hand 
accompanying  the  singers.  Then  we  watch 
the  dramas.  Preston  feels  he  should  keep 
his  hand  in.  'I  may  see  something  in  those 
shows,'  he  says,  'that  will  help  us — or  I 
might  see  an  error  we  can  avoid.'  Preston 
even  improvises  incidental  music  to  ac- 
company these  dramatic  shows. 

"We  are  not  concerned  with  material 
things,"  says  Sheila.  "We  don't  make  col- 
lections of  possessions.  We  love  music, 
friendships  .  .  .  we  get  our  enjoyments 
from  our  experiences." 

When  Preston  and  Sheila  first  met  on 
an  RKO  lot,  it  was  this  common  apprecia- 
tion of  the  simple  things  ui  life  which 
inspired  their  desire  to  know  one  another 
better.  Gypsies  at  heart,  when  they  de- 
cided to  marry,  they  simply  started  driving 
toward  San  Francisco,  a  town  they  both 
loved.  They  obtained  their  license  four 
hours  later  in  San  Luis  Obispo,  were  mar- 
ried four  hours  farther  on  in  Burlingame, 
and  honeymooned  that  evening  in  San 
Francisco. 

Reminiscent  of  the  ocean's  rolling  waves 
is  the  rolling  hills  of  a  ranch — that's  the 
Fosters'  home,  their  400-acre  ranch.  Twin 
Oaks,  some  sixty  miles  north  of  Los  An- 
geles. "Any  one  of  the  oaks,"  says  Sheila, 
"dwarfs  the  trailer.  We  soend  our  week- 
ends there.  Preston  sharecrops:  We  raise 
wheat,  barley,  oats,  alfalfa — all  in  rota- 
tion. The  ranch  is  covered  with  machinery, 
hay  bailers,  tractors,  trucks,  plows  and 
graders,  everything  modern  to  make  a 
ranch  go.  Preston  operates  all  the  ma- 
chinery but  specializes  in  road-building. 
He  has  a  reputation  for  bein?j  one  of  the 
best  'cat'  (short  for  'caterpillar'  tractor) 
skinners  on  the  mountain."  It  takes  great 
physical  strength  to  control  a  road-build- 
ing caterpillar  tractor.  Preston's  ability 
here  marks  him  as  a  man's  man. 

But,  with  it  all,  as  the  sea  is  gentle, 
so  is  Preston.  There  is  a  sensitivity  in  his 
personality  which  lets  him  feel  the  needs 
of  others.  For  example,  he  gives  unstint- 
ingly  of  his  time  to  every  good  cause.  He's 
traveled    as    far    as    Milwaukee    for    one 


telethon,    and    is    always    doing    benefits. 

"There  are  times,"  says  Sheila,  '"when  I 
know  he  has  prooiems,  but  he  never  seems 
to  worry  about  them.  When  I  ask  him  how 
he  can  be  so  calm,  he  says,  "I  can't  spend 
my  life  worrying  about  things  I  can't  help. 
I  think  it's  foolish  to  worry  about  some- 
thing you  can  do  nothing  about.' " 

Even  on  Wateriront,  whenever  he  can 
Pres  does  "little"  things  he  thinks  will 
make  people  happy.  Last  year,  for  exam- 
ple. Captain  Earl  McQueen  was  the  winner 
of  the  international  tugboat  races.  He  won 
a  trip  to  California  to  meet  '"Cap'n  John." 
Preston  and  Captain  McQueen,  with  much 
in  common,  became  fast  friends.  On  a  later 
show,  hoping  it  would  please  him,  Preston 
used  the  Captain's  name.  The  next  week 
he  had  a  letter  from  Captain  McQueen 
telling  about  the  phone  calls,  telegrams, 
and  letters  which  had  come  to  him  saying, 
"We  heard  about  you  on  Waterfront." 
Captain  McQueen  thanked  Pres  in  his  let- 
ter, saying  he  was  "mighty  pleased.'" 

Again,  on  last  Christmas'  show,  Pres- 
ton's daughter  Stevie  played  a  small  role 
as  choir  leader  and  helper  to  the  show's 


"Father  Cassidy."  He  gave  Stevie  his 
mother's  maiden  name,  Sallie  Stratton. 
His  mother  then  got  the  calls  and  letters. 
In  Ben  Fox's  character  description  of 
Cap'n  John,  his  favorite  dish  is  lemon 
meringue  pie.  Well,  it  just  so  happens  that 
Preston  Foster's  mother  makes  the  grand- 
est lemon  meringue  pie  in  the  U.S.A.  On 
a  subsequent  show,  Pres  gave  away  the 
secret  of  her  recipe  to  twenty -million 
viewers.  His  mother  was  thrilled  with  this 
"sweet"  touch.  As  she  says  of  his  perform- 
ance in  Waterfront:  "Oh,  Pres,  at  last 
you're  playing  yourself." 

It's  true,  Preston  Foster  is  playing  him- 
self. In  the  words  of  Ben  Fox:  "Cour- 
ageous, God-fearing  .  .  .  with  great  physi- 
cal strength,  intelligence,  and  a  sense  of 
humor.  .  .  ."  Dynamic  and  active  with 
his  many  interests,  and  with  his  own  up- 
beat philosophy — this  is  Preston  Foster. 
When  he  steps  off  the  Waterfront  set,  he 
does  not  step  out  of  character.  Except  for 
their  names.  Captain  John  Herrick  and 
actor  Preston  Foster  are  one  and  the  same 
man — right  down  to  their  love  for  lemon 
meringue  pie. 


Days  of  Remembrance 


(Continued  from  page  30) 
.     make  any  noise.     He  could   only  rely  on 
■       a   child's   vivid   imagination   and   his   own 
storybook  world. 

Thanksgiving  Days,  he  remembers  well. 
And  it  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  landing 
of  the  Pilgrims  on  Plymouth  Rock.  This 
was  "Turkey  Day" — "when  members  of 
the  church  would  come  around  with  bas- 
kets of  food  for  us.  We  never  went 
hungry.  Providence  always  took  care  of 
us.  But  some  people  are  always  intent 
on  your  knowing  it's  charity — and  on  play- 
ing it  that  way." 

But,  at  eleven — when  he  found  out  he 
was  adopted — ironically  enough,  life 
brightened  for  him.  This,  then,  was  not 
his  life.  Nor  was  this  his  destiny.  That, 
even  today,  Art  Linkletter  has  made  no 
move  to  find  out  who  his  real  parents 
are  .  .  .  this  is  mute  testimony  as  to  the 
depth  of  the  wound.  That  anyone,  no 
matter  what  the  circumstances,  could  give 
an  "own  child"  away.  But,  at  eleven,  the 
knowledge  that  he  wasn't  born  to  such 
poverty  freed  him  to  make-believe  a  world 
of  his  own.  He  was  deeply  devoted  to  his 
foster  mother,  but  this  wasn't  his  life. 
And  now— he  could  be  anybody  in  the 
world  he  wanted  to  be.  .  .  . 

At  eleven,  of  course,  a  fellow  wouldn't 
be  dreaming  of  the  girl  he  would  meet 
later  on  who  would  help  a  lonely  kid's 
dream  of  wealth  and  fame  become  today's 
reality.  Or  that  he  would  be  inspired 
by  her  .  .  .  and  by  his  own  determination 
...  to  make  himself  a  name. 

Nor,  later  on — even  though  he  promised 
her  "the  works" — could  he  envision  the 
throne  in  television  aind  radio,  the  vast 
empire  of  enterprises — oil  wells,  lead 
mines,  steamship  companies,  airlines,  uran- 
ium mines — which  he  would  some  day 
share  with  the  girl  who  danced  into  his 
life  at  a  fraternity  hop  when  she  was  a 
wide-eyed   sixteen.   .   .   . 

Art  was  the  flash  of  San  Diego  State 
College.  President  of  the  senior  class, 
president  of  his  fraternity,  captain  of  the 
basketball  team,  and  a  dreamboat  on  the 
dance  floor.  He  was  working  his  way 
through  school,  grading  papers,  and  work- 
ing for  his  meals  in  the  kitchen  of  a  sor- 
ority. He  had  no  money  for  dates  or  for 
gifts  for  Lois,  but  he  gave  her  his  gold 
basketball  and  all  his  medals — and  he  al- 
ways had  "an  angle"  for  the  evening's  en- 
tertainment. 


"It  doesn't  take  money,  if  you  know 
how — and  I  knew  how,"  Art  laughs  now, 
reminiscing  back  over  their  courting  days. 
"I  could  nurse  a  Coke  from  nine  till  two 
— and   Lois   always   cooperated   with   me." 

As  the  daughter  of  a  San  Diego  druggist, 
Lois  represented  security  and  family  liv- 
ing and  stability  Art  Linkletter  had  never 
known.  He  was  welcomed  warmly  into 
her  family  circle  and  he  reveled  in  it.  Lois, 
three  years  behind  him  in  school,  was 
just  as  thoroughly  impressed  about  dating 
a  sophisticated  "older  college  man."  Also, 
Art  was  handsome  and  kind  "and  his 
dancing  bowled  me  over.  We  loved — and 
still  love — to  dance."  Art  went  for  her 
sweetness  and  innocence — and  her  sym- 
pathetic ear.  He  found  he  could  really 
talk  to  her.  Other  co-eds  just  seemed  to 
be  out  for  a  good  time  on  a  date,  but,  as 
Art  has  said,  "Lois  made  me  feel  some- 
body cared  beyond  that  evening." 

Art's  ambition  then  was  to  teach  school. 
He  wanted  a  steady  job  with  tenure,  where 
he  could  be  sure  of  making  $50  a  week 
for  the  rest  of  his  life.  However,  his  quick 
way  with  a  word  soon  got  him  employed 
at  radio  station  KGB  instead.  The  salary 
was  $125  a  month,  but  they  promised  him 
a  raise  before  too  long,  and  he  held  off 
proposing  until  then.  "I'd  made  up  my 
mind  I  wasn't  getting  married  until  I  was 
making  $150  a  month,"  he  recalls. 

Meanwhile,  he  informed  Lois  he  thought 
she  should  go  away  to  school.  "She'd 
never  been  any  farther  from  home  than 
Los  Angeles — and  she'd  only  been  there 
twice."  He  thought  she  should  become 
more  experienced  with  life  and  with  be- 
ing away  from  her  family  ...  a  conviction 
which  melted  fast,  when  Lois  enrolled  at 
the  University  of  Arizona  and  began  dat- 
ing the  captain  of  the  football  team  .  .  . 
which  wasn't  the  kind  of  experience  Art 
had  in  mind. 

Fortunately,  the  $25  raise  finally  came 
through,  Eind  Art  and  Lois  were  married 
on  Thanksgiving  Day.  As  Art's  radio  pal. 
Bill  Goodwin,  announced  over  the  air, 
the  whole  country  was  proclaiming  it  a 
special  holiday. 

Driving  up  the  coast  that  golden  Novem- 
ber afternoon.  Art  Linkletter's  proud  heart 
filled.  Nothing  was  too  good  for  this 
dewy-eyed  bride  of  his.  He  was  going 
to  show  her  everything  in  this  whole 
wide  wonderful  world,  he  again  promised 
himself  ...  as  they  traveled  toward  Long 


ASSORTED  in  Silk,  Wool,  CoHon  ft  Rayon 

AU  SIZES  in  Good  Condition 

BUT  NO  LESS  THAN  20  DRESSES 

AT  THIS  BARGAIN  PRICE 

MONEY  BACK  IP  NOT  SATISFIED 

$1.00  DopesIt  MUST  coaM  wIMi  order.  Yoa  pay 

petfmoa  ooloaeo  plot  C.O.D.,  pottogo  chorfot. 

A  TRIAL  ORDER  WIU  CONVINCE  TOU  OF 

OUR  WONDERFUL  BARGAINS 


MAIL  ORDER  MART  '"KmfsrN"'.'    °'''  SE 


Nam*     • 
Addma 


Eoelosod  Bad  $1.00  Dopeil*.  I  will  poy  potf*  { 
»o»  C.O.D.  boloiio  PLUS  poitoqo.  BD  i 


-mi 


t>hi£e     I 


e^^'m  A  ^  A  C|_|  can  be  yours 
EATRA  C-A^Mfoi"  helping  us 
^W^  m  1%^^  ^M^'m^^a  a  t^j^g  orders  for 

magazine  subscriptions.  Write  for  FREE  informa- 
tion. There  is  no  obligation. 

Macfadden  Publications,  205  E.  42  St.,N.Y.17,N.Y. 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata- 
log pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma- 
ternity fashions.  World's  Largest.  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  S22,9S,Catalog  mailed  in  plain  envelope. 

C  RAWFORD'S 

Dept.  35,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City  14,Mo, 


i\ 


ENLARGEMENT 

o/you/'  Vauof/fe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOUYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
ity 5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
^  shot,  photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
■  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clotliing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
ment beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10^  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  $100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS.  Dept.  F-T47 

7021    Santa    Monica   Blvd.,    hlollywood   38,   Calif. 

Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain— Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The   secret   is   a   new  healing   substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous         ' 
research  institute.  " 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup-        R 
pository  or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *B6g.  U.  S.  Pat.  OH. 


^    w    w   ^     w 

Want  to  Get  Rid  of 
Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
freckles,  Skin  Spots?] 


Famous  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

JuEt  follow  the  amazing:  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  NIGHT  PLAN  to  a  whiter,  softer, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  retiring  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time  -  tested  plan  for  over  40  years  —  you'll 
love  it's  fast,  sure,  longer  lasting  results! 
[  Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
1  antee  or  money  back.    Start  using  it  now! 
'MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


ILIehteni  dark 
ikin  ind  ueiy 
tpoU  almost 
oiernlcht. 


Extra 

Gash 

Fast 


Here's  an  unusual  opportunity  to  earn  extra 
cash  fast  and  often.  We  pay  the  highest  com- 
missions to  thousands  of  part-time  salesmen 
who  help  us  take  orders  for  magazine  sub- 
Bcriptions,  atl  over  the  country.  Easy!  No  ex- 
perience! Rush  name  and  address  for  FREE 
money-making  information  to:  Wlacfadden  Pub- 
lications, 20S   East  42  St.,   New  York  17,   N.Y. 


98 


0^^^  1000 


PICTURES   Of 
MOVIE    &    TV    STARS 


Sensational    Collection    Of 
Scenes,     Pittures,    Photoi,    Ctc. 
rnrr  One   Exciting  Scene  from 
rlfCC  0  Latest  Production. 

You'll  be  thrilled  with  this 
Stor-Studded   Package.   Send   2Sc   to 
LUCKY    STARS,    Dept.T-3 

G.P.O.    Box    738,    New    York    1,    N.    Y 


iFiN' HIGH  SCHOOLS 


\  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train* 
ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  FriendlyA 
instructors ;  standard  texts.   Full  credit  f or\ 
previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded.' 
Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-29 
2527  SheHield  Ave./  Chicago  14,  Illinois. 


LOOK  IT'S  NEW 


An  exciting  sideline  which  can  be  made  into  a 
profitable  money  making  business.  Earn  $25  to  $50 
extra  a  week  in  your  spare  time.  Send  name  and 
address  and  $1.00  for  complete  details  and  kit. 
ACT  NOW. 


HOME  ENTERPRIZES 

p.    O.    BOX    309,    WORCESTER,    MASS. 


Dept.  30 


itfOlV/SaveUpto50% 

on  Nationally  Advertised  Gifts 

Use  this  blET.  new  FREE  CATA- 
LOG to  buy  all  kinds  of  gifts 
and  merchandise  for  yourself, 
family,  friends,  neighbors.  Ter- 
rific saving  on  big-name  Items. 
Also,  make  money  spare  time 
taking   orders    from    others! 

EVERGREEN  STUDIOS 

Box   846  Chicago   42,    III. 


Callouses 


Pain,  Tenderness,  Burn- 
ing Are  Quickly  Relieved 


You'll  quickly  forget  you  have 
painful  callouBCH,  burning  or 
tenderness  on  the  bottom  of 
your  feet,  when  you  apjily  Dr. 
Scholl's  Zino-pads.  Thin,  soft, 
wondrrrfully  soothing,  cushion- 
ing, protective.  Separate  Medi- 
calions  included  for  quickly  re- 
moving callouses.  Try  tbeml 


Df^Scholls  lino  pads 


Beach  for  their  honejnnoon  (and  Long 
Beach  she'd  already  seen).  As  for  his 
dewy-eyed  bride,  she  was  even  then 
dreaming  of  the  home  she  would  make 
for  him.  The  vine-covered  cottage  with 
babies  playing  on  the  well-scrubbed  floor. 
And  so  they  settled  down  in  a  forty- 
dollar  apartment  in  San  Diego  with 
thoughts  of  keeping  those  campaign 
promises.  But  they  didn't  settle  long. 
Art  quit  his  staff  post  with  the  radio  sta- 
tion "for  a  job  with  the  Texas  Centennial 
that  would  just  last  six  months — I'd  al- 
ready begun  to  shed  my  taste  for  secur- 
ity," he  laughs.  But  he  adds,  "I  thought 
I'd  gone  about  as  far  as  I  could  in  San 
Diego,  anyway.  I  could  see  a  future  in  this 
emcee  business,  and  this  gave  me  the 
chance  to  get  out  and  explore."  His 
bride  gave  him  the  added  courage  and 
inspiration.  No  longer  alone,  he  was 
now  shedding  his  fear  of  insecurity,  too. 

With  their  two-hundred-dollar  nest-egg, 
they  set  out  confidently  in  an  old  beat- 
up  Dodge  "that  averaged  two  quarts  of 
oil  to  every  ten  gallons  of  gasoline."  They 
carried  quarts  of  oil  in  the  car  with  them 
— and  Art  began  showing  his  bride  the 
world.  At  least  it  seemed  like  the  world. 
En  route  to  Dallas,  he  stopped  all  along 
the  way,  circling  leisurely  in  and  out  of 
the  mountains  and  going  via  the  Grand 
Canyon  and  the  Carlsbad  Caverns  .  .  . 
"all  the  way — pouring  oil." 

They  arrived  in  Dallas  hot  and  weary 
and  down  to  $50,  which  Art  promptly  dis- 
pensed with,  when  their  prospective  land- 
lady said  she  thought  he  resembled  British 
film  star  Leslie  Howard — and  inquired 
whether  he'd  like  to  pay  the  first  month's 
rent  in  advance.  "Why,  certainly,"  he 
beamed. 

As  Lois  remembers  well,  "I  was  dying, 
I  was  so  mad!  Then  he  had  to  get  an 
advance  on  his  first  month's  pay  so  we 
could  eat."  But  Art  was  undismayed.  As 
he  says,  "I  was  going  to  get  $300  a  month 
there.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  never  made 
under  $300  a  month  from  then  on — when 
I  was  working.  .  .  ." 

Which  he  wasn't  during  their  first 
Thanksgiving  anniversary.  .  .  . 

For  very  sentimental  reasons,  they'd 
decided  to  celebrate  their  anniversary  on 
Thanksgiving  Day  each  year — although 
their  decision  had  its  practical  side,  too. 
"Actually,  we  don't  remember  the  day-of- 
the-month  we  were  married.  Neither  one 
of  us  is  very  good  at  remembering  dates, 
and  we  thought  this  would  be  the  surest 
way."  Even  then,  they're  still  a  little 
hazy  about  the  details  of  that  first  wed- 
ding  anniversary. 

As  it  happened,  the  whole  country  was 
a  little  confused  about  anniversaries  that 
particular  year.  "Most  people  just  have 
one  anniversary,  you  know.  Ordinarily, 
we  would  have  two — the  date  we  were 
actually  married  and  Thanksgiving  Day 
itself,  which  is  the  day  we  celebrate.  But 
— one  reason  we're  confused  about  this — 
that  year,  we  had  three!  They  inaugu- 
rated two  Thanksgivings.  The  Republi- 
cans celebrated  Thanksgiving  on  the  fourth 
Thursday  and  the  Democrats  on  the  third 
Thursday,"  says  Art. 

And  the  Linkletters  couldn't  celebrate 
any  of  them.  This,  they  remember  well. 
They  were  flat  broke,  and  Roosevelt  gave 
them  an  extra  anniversary.  "I  was  un- 
employed at  the  time.  We  had  no  money, 
no  job,  and  no  home.  I'd  turned  down  a 
steady  position  offered  me  in  Dallas,  and 
I  was  dickering  for  work  at  the  San 
Francisco  World's  Fair — but  I  didn't  have 
it  then.    We  were  just  floating  around." 

Their  second  Thanksgiving  anniversary, 
however,  they  could  never  forget. 

They  were  living  in  a  small  crowded 
apartment  in  the  Marino  district  of  San 


Francisco,  and  Art  was  becoming  an  expert 
on  World's  Fairs — a  fairly  limited  voca- 
tion. But  they  were  already  conscien- 
tiously fulfilling  those  wedding  vows.  One 
evening  he  breezed  into  home  plate  to 
find  his  little  bride  busily  engaged  in 
sewing  frilly  things. 

"Window  curtains,"  she  explained,  "for 
the  nursery." 

"What  window?  And  what  nursery?"  he 
marveled. 

But  Lois  had  unsuspected  talents  as  an 
ad-lib  artist  on  her  own.  "There's  a  little 
window  in  the  end  of  the  closet.  We  can 
take  the  in-a-door  bed  out,  and  put  the 
crib  in  there." 

They  celebrated  that  anniversary  in  San 
Francisco  Children's  Hospital,  and  Art 
Linkletter  had  another  reason  for  giving 
thanks.  His  wife  had  given  him  a  son. 
They'd  hoped  the  baby  would  be  born  on 
their  anniversary.  Instead,  he  arrived  on 
November  20th — right  at  the  moment 
Stanford  made  the  winning  touchdown  in 
the  big  annual  football  game  with  Cal. 
The  radio  was  on  in  the  delivery  room, 
and  a  worried  Lois  hazily  heard  the  doc- 
tors and  nurses  changing  their  bets  and 
talking  football  scores — and  she  hoped 
the  odds  favored  delivering  her  baby, 
too. 

"Art  gave  me  a  wristwatch,  and  that 
was  really  stretching  things  then,"  she 
remembers  only  too  well.  Most  treasured 
of  all  was  that  thrilling  moment  when 
they  took  their  son  Jack  home  from  the 
hospital  to  the  closet  with  the  frilly  new 
curtains  they'd  prepared  for  him.  .  .  . 

Every  Thanksgiving  anniversay  there- 
after, Art  gave  Lois  something  of  value. 
"He's  always  gone  overboard  on  our  an- 
niversaries,"    she     observes    approvingly. 

The  faded  negligee  hanging  in  the  closet 
of  their  elegant  home  is  mute  testimony  of 
those  sentimental  early  Thanksgivings 
when  Art  Linkletter  was  struggling  to 
make  a  name  for  himself  in  radio — and 
"going  overboard"  on  gifts  for  her.  He'd 
initiated  an  informal  audience  participa- 
tion show  called  What  Do  You  Think? 
which  proved  too  informal  and  too  contro- 
versial. "Art  almost  caused  a  revolution 
with  that  one,"  Lois  recalls.  This  was 
during  the  war,  and  some  of  the  thoughts 
on  politics  and  such  were  too  hot  to  be 
aired.  He  had  a  daily  daytime  show,  and 
he  devised  another  called  Wfio's  Dancing 
Tonight,  which  originated  from  the  top 
hotels,  with  Art  interviewing  patrons. 

On  Art's  first  trip  south,  their  anniver- 
sary was  all  they  had  to  celebrate  during 
eight  very  discouraging  and  defeating 
months,  during  which  every  show  Art  had 
didn't  pan  out.  For  the  first  time  he  was 
faced  with  failure.  And  another  son, 
Robert,  was  on  the  way. 

"Art  came  to  Hollywood  with  good 
package  shows,"  Lois  says,  "but  nothing 
worked  out.  Everything  he  touched  went 
bad  that  year.  It  was  just  a  chain  of  un- 
fortvmate  circumstances."  An  oil  com- 
pany bought  Art's  "party  show,"  wherein 
he  took  listeners  to  the  party-of-the-week. 
Later,  the  president  of  the  company,  who'd 
been  in  Europe  when  it  was  purchased, 
decided  it  wasn't  "dignified  enough"  for 
his  concern.  "Art  had  a  contract,  but  he 
wouldn't  stay  on  if  they  didn't  like  him. 
He  let  them  cancel  out  without  paying 
anything.  He  had  a  sustaining  half-hour 
variety  show  on  CBS,  but  prospective 
sponsors  wanted  expensive  talent  the 
budget  wouldn't  take,  so  this  one  fell 
through,   too." 

He  bundled  up  his  brood  and  returned 
to  San  Francisco  "where  they  liked  us, 
and  where  we'd  been  so  happy."  They 
bought  a  home — their  first — in  St.  Francis 
Wood.  But  Art  didn't  give  up  the  bigger 
time.    He  began  commuting  back  and  forth 


to  Holly-^vood  with  his  People  Are  Funny 
show.  And,  t\vo  years  later,  when  Gen- 
eral Electric  bought  the  show,  the  Link- 
letters  ret\irned  to  Hollywood  to  stay.  Art 
rose  to  fame  very  fast  as  king  of  the 
emcees,  and  as  the  wholesome  heart-throb 
of  housewives  throughout  the  land  who 
never  miss  his  CBS  House  Party.  He's  a 
man  of  means,  and  becoming  increasingly 
wealthier. 

Nor  has  Lois  been  inactive  in  expand- 
ing the  domestic  front.  Their  cute,  lively 
daughters,  Sharon,  9,  and  Diane,  6,  round 
out  the  Linkletters'  "basketball  team." 
Sometimes  Art  has  Lois  on  his  Thanks- 
giving Day  shows.  "I'm  always  intro- 
duced as  'one  of  Hollywood's  greatest  pro- 
ducers— the  mother  of  five  little  Links,' " 
she  laughs.  "I'm  used  to  being  a  good 
stooge  now!" 

They've  come  a  long  way  together,  this 
Thanksgiving  team.  "The  wide-eyed  small- 
town girl  and  the  boy  who  belonged  to 
nobody.    And  they've  both  changed.  .  .  . 

As  Art  says  teasingly  now,  "When  I  met 
Lois,  she'd  never  been  farther  than  Los 
Angeles.  She  didn't  know  anything  about 
life.  She  wouldn't  even  go  to  a  party 
at  the  San  Diego  Press  Club  because  she'd 
heard  it  was  a  wicked  place.  For  one 
thing,  the  club  was  located  upstairs."  But 
he  stops  smiling  when  he  tells  you  how 
much  he  himself  has  changed  and  the 
part  Lois  has  played  in  it.  Master  of  words 
though  he  is,  he  gropes  around  tr>'ing  to 
find  the  right  ones.  As  though  there's  just 
too  much  to  go  into.     Too  much  to  say. 


UHipO  COMMUNin 
ym     CAMPAIGNS 

6i«e...the  UciiteJ  way 


"Well — more  than  anything  else,  she's 
made  me  unashamed  to  be  somewhat  sen- 
timental. I  always  covered  up  with  every- 
body else  before.  .  .  ." 

She's  given  him  a  home — in  every 
moving  meaning  of  the  word.  A  home  in 
which  Art's  adored  foster  mother,  87- 
year-old  Mrs.  Mary  Linkletter,  comes  and 
goes  at  wiU.  (She  won't  give  up  the  apart- 
ment she's  had  in  Pomona  for  the  past 
twenty  years,  but  she  comes  for  "two- 
week  visits"  from  time  to  time,  and  says 
proudly  of  him,  "Artie  is  everything  a 
mother  could  want.") 

Today  he  has  his  own  family.  He's 
enclosed  by  a  company  of  hvely,  affec- 
tionate Uttle — and  not-so-little — Links.  At 
17,  his  son  Jack  is  making  his  own  name 
in  radio  with  his  CBS  Teen-Timers  show. 
Theirs  is  a  chattering  circle  around  the 
breakfast  table  every  morning,  as  Art 
chats  with  the  children,  reads  the  papers, 
checks  his  mail,  answ^ers  the  phone,  and 
confers  with  his  broker  about  the  bonds 
and  stocks  he  wants  to  buy  and  sell  that 
day.  .  .  .  "All,"  as  Lois  says  laughingly, 
"at  the  same  time."  But  he  enjoys  it.  He 
wants  the  family  around.  He  can  work 
on  scripts  with  the  kids  chattering  and  the 
TV  on.  When  it's  too  quiet,  it  boAers  him. 

"We  have  dinner  together  every  eve- 
ning at  six,"  says  Lois,  "and  Art  tries  to 
get  home  early  enough  to  have  a  swim 
with  the  children  before  that  time.  Some- 
times he  goes  for  a  bicycle  ride  with 
them  after  dinner,  and  they  have  their 
own  tour.  They  bicycle  in  and  out  of 
Humphrey  Bogart's  drive -way,  and  up 
around  the  comer  around  Sammy  Cahn's 
place,  and  they  curve  in  and  out  at  Lana 
Turner's  home.    Tourists  going  by  on  the 


sightseeing  bus  really  crane  their  necks. 
I  suppose  they  can't  believe  it — Art  Link- 
letter  and  the  children  all  strung  out  on 
their  bikes  as  far  as  you  can  see." 

But,  today,  Thanksgiving  is  still  a  dou- 
ble holiday  in  the  Linkletter  household, 
with  both  red  roses  and  cranberries  on  the 
bill  of  fare.  They  have  dinner  with  the 
children  in  the  middle  of  the  day,  with 
turkey  and  all  the  trimmings.  But,  that 
night,  they  go  dancing  and  celebrate  their 
anniversary.  They  sip  champagne  and 
they  twirl  as  expertly  as  the  boy  and  girl 
who  free-wheeled  in  those  street  dances 
in  San  Diego  twenty  years  ago. 

"Now  we  can  afford  the  swanky  spots 
and  exquisite  surroundings,  but  you  can't 
dance  there,"  says  Art.  "In  a  night 
club,  every  time  you  pivot  you  put  out 
somebody's  eye.  This  Thanksgiving,  I  have 
in  mind  taking  Lois  to  the  Aragon  Ball- 
room on  the  pier — or  to  the  Palladium — 
where  we  can  pivot  and  really  cut  a  rug!" 

He  isn't  sure  what  official  significance 
the  twentieth  anniversary  holds  mate- 
rially— whether  it's  china  or  crystal  or 
what.  "Anyway,  ours  wiU  be  uranitun. 
I'm  thinking  of  getting  Lois  a  uranium 
mine." 

As  for  those  faraway  places,  she's  been 
to  about  all  of  them  and  back  again  .  .  . 
and  her  husband's  still  showing  her  the 
world.  She's  probably  the  world's  most 
traveling  wife.  Last  year  they  flew  com- 
pletely around  the  world.  They've  been 
to  South  America,  to  Asia,  and  to  Europe 
many  times.  They've  danced  on  the  beach 
at  Waikiki — and  they've  visited  ragged 
refugee  barracks  in  Pakistan. 

"We're  going  to  the  Olympic  Games  in 
Australia  next  summer,"  Art  says  now  en- 
thusiastically. "And  I've  made  reserva- 
tions for  a  safari  in  Africa  in  1957.  .  .  ." 

Meanwhile,  Lois  is  commuting  back  and 
forth  with  him  to  New  York  every  month 
for  the  NBC-TV  spectaculars  he  now  hosts. 
"I  hate  any  hotel  room  without  her  in  it," 
Art  says.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  takes 
a  lot  of  tall  traveUng  just  to  visit  their 
"overseas  family,"  the  war  orphans  they've 
adopted  in  Paris,  and  Rome  and  Greece. 
Half-orphans  like  twelve-year-old  Ro- 
land Mongeard,  whose  father  was  killed  in 
the  war  and  of  whom  they  say,  like  any 
fond  parents,  "His  voice  is  changing — he's 
growing  up  so  fast."  There's  dark-eyed 
Alberto  Di  Raco,  14,  who  writes  them  such 
warm  letters  so  regularly  and  who  "has 
such  artistic  possibilities — we  have  so  much 
hope  for  him." 

And  there's  a  beautiful  little  girl  in 
Athens,  Stella  Tambaki,  who  Uved  in  a 
shack  in  a  pauper's  section  called  "Little 
Korea,"  who  sang  Greek  folks  songs  for 
them  and  did  a  little  folk  dance — there 
on  the  dirt  floor — and  whose  whole  family, 
tubercular  grandmother  and  all,  belong 
to  Art  Linkletter's  now.  .  .  . 

"Every  day  is  Thanksgiving  to  me  now," 
Art  Linkletter  says,  slowly.  "I've  never 
■  stopped  marvelling  at  the  wonderful  things 
that  have  happened  to  me.  When  we  travel 
around  the  world  and  see  conditions  in 
other  countries,  and  kids  in  other  coun- 
tries— countries  where  conditions  are 
supposed  to  be  good — I'm  so  thankful. 
And,  when  I  think  of  my  own  background, 
the  poverty  and  the  struggles  .  .  .  and  to- 
day.   I  just  can't  believe  it.  .  .  . 

"We've  had  a  fast  trip  in  twenty  years, 
Lois  and  I — in  more  ways  than  one,"  he 
goes  on.  "And  in  every  way,  she  hung  onto 
my  shirt-tail  flying  through  the  breeze — 
and  stayed  right  up  behind  me,  all  the 
way.  .  .  ." 

And  every  Thanksgiving  Day  they  com- 
memorate, not  only  the  landing  of  the 
better-known  Pilgrims  on  Plymouth  Rock, 
but  that  of  those  other  two  who  started 
out  in  an  old  beat-up  Dodge  that  inhaled 
oil  .  .  .  and  foimd  the  end  of  the  rainbow. 


LOOSE  PLATES 
Fit  Tight! 


FOR  LOWER 
DENTURE 

just  place 
this  pad 
on  plate— 

CHEW  IN  COMFORT! 

Chew  all  kinds  of  food!  Komfo  Dental 
Pads  bring  you  blessed  relief  from  pain 
and  soreness  caused  by  ill-fitting  false 
teeth — or  your  money  back.  Plates  hold 
TIGHTER — won't  slip  or  click. 

FOR  UPPER  PLATE     Easy   to   use.   Write   today. 

Send    Sl.OO   for  20   Lowers 

Send   Sl.OO   for   16   Uppers 

KOMFO  DENTAL  PAD  CO. 

Department  712 

Box  6311,  Phila.  39,  Pa. 


300  A  Childs  Photo 


BIG  DEMAND  for  boys  and  girls  pho- 
tos, ages  6  months  to  18  years.  $300  or 
more  PAID  if  used  for  advertising  pur- 
poses. Send  ONE  small  photo  for  ap- 
proval. Print  CHILD'S  and  MOTHER'S 
name  and  address  on  back.  Returned 
15  days.    NO  OBLIGATION. 

ADVERTISERS    PHOTOS 
6000-HK  Sunset,  Hollywaod  28,  Calif. 


MAKE  $S0-$60  A  WEEK 

Practical  nurses  are  needed  In  every 
community . . .  doctors  rely  on  them . . . 
patients  appreciate  their  cheerful,  ex- 
pert   care.    You    can    learn    practical 
1         ^  ~^Ji        I       nursing  at  home  in  spare  time.  Course 
K     ,,  %MWSv>tia9       endorsed  by  physicians.  56th  yr.  Earn 
■>•>-'   ^^^a^ytm       while   learning.   High  School  not  re- 
quired.   Men,  women,   18  to  60.    Trial  plan.    Write  nowl 
CHICAGO  SCHOOL  OF   NURSING 
Dept.  211,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,   III. 
Please  send  free  tKioklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Same 

City State Age 


* 


TOWELS  Jt 

Incredible,  but  true  I  20  large-size,  new  towels  In 
colors  and  white — for  onlv  5c  each!  Minimum 
order  20  for  Sl.OO.  Others  charge  Sl.OO  for  only 
FIVE  unwoven  cotton  and  rayon  towels  like  these 
but  we  made  a  terrific  purchase  and  are  passing 
savings  on  to  you.  Limit — 2  orders  per  customer. 
Money-back  guarantee.  Order  TODAY.  Make  won- 
derful  gifts.    Agents   wanted.    Make   big   money. 

NICKEL  TOWELS,  Dept.  458,  Box  881,  St.   Louis,  Mo. 

Happy  Is  The  Day 
When  Backache 
Goes  Away .... 

Nagging  backache,  headache,  or  muscular  aches  and 
pains  may  come  on  with  over-exertion,  emotional  up- 
sets or  day  to  day  stress  and  strain.  And  folks  who 
eat  and  drink  unwisely  sometimes  suffer  mild  bladder 
irritation... with  that  res  tless.uncomfortablefeeling. 

If  you  are  miserable  and  worn  out  because  of 
these  discomforts,  Doan's  PUIs  often  help  by  their 
pain  relieving  action,  by  their  soothing  effect  to  ease 
bladder  irritation,  and  by  their  mUd  diuretic  action 
through  the  kidneys— tending  to  increase  the  output 
of  the  15  miles  of  kidney  tubes. 

So  if  nagging  backache  makes  you  feel  dragged- 
out,  miserable ...  with  restless,  sleepless  nights... 
don't  wait . . .  try  Doan's  Pills . . .  get  the  same  happy 
relief  mUlions  have  enjoyed  for  over  60  years.  Get 
Doan's  PUIs  today! 


99 


Barbara  Becker's  Road  Of  Life 


(Continued  from  page  50) 
forthright  and — yes,  so  matter-of-fact — 
about  her  whole  manner,  in  the  penetrat- 
ing gaze  of  gray  eyes  from  a  face  as 
scrubbed  and  fair  as  a  schoolgirl's.  Her 
long  light  hair  is  pulled  back  from  her 
forehead  and  held  almost  primly  by  a 
barrette.  She  is  dressed  simply,  has  on 
very  little  make-up,  is  of  average  height 
(5'4"),  slender,  and  is  wearing  glasses 
(she  does  except  when  she  is  on  TV). 
No  sparks  seem  to  fly  from  her  to  those 
around  her,  no  electric  current  seems  to 
flow  toward  the  others  in  the  crowds  that 
fill  the  galleries  ...  as  most  certainly  hap- 
pens when  she  speaks  into  a  micro- 
phone or  walks  before  a  television  camera. 

Barbara  likes  it  that  way.  "I  do  my 
acting  in  the  studio,  not  in  the  street," 
she  says.  "I  think  that's  as  it  should  be. 
I  don't  live  like  an  actress,  either.  I  look 
upon  acting  as  the  work  I  love,  not  as 
any  special  way  of  Ufe.  First  of  all  I  am 
a  person,  mother  to  an  interesting  small 
boy,  trying  to  make  a  home  for  him  and 
to  give  him  a  good  education,  looking 
ahead  to  his  development  and  to  my  own." 

Far  removed  from  the  excitement  and 
glamour  usually  associated  with  an  actress 
is  her  routine  right  now,  for  instance. 
Her  working  day,  Monday  through  Friday, 
begins  at  nine  in  the  morning  and  doesn't 
end  until  around  four  in  the  afternoon. 
There  is  a  new  script  to  be  studied  every 
evening.  There  is  a  dramatic  class  for 
professionals — taught  by  Donald  Richard- 
son— in  which  she  has  been  a  student  for 
more  than  seven  years.  ("I  keep  on  work- 
ing very  hard  to  make  my  work  better 
all  the  time.")  There  are  a  few  close 
friends  to  keep  up  with.  She  allows  her- 
self one  night  a  week  to  go  out  with  a 
"date"  (her  marriage  ended  a  few  years 
ago).  She  likes  staying  home  evenings 
with  her  son  .  .  .  and,  after  Bryden's  in 
bed  and  she  is  through  with  her  work, 
losing  herself  in  reading — more  often  than 
not,  it  will  be  science  fiction.  "It  fascinates 
me,"  she  explains,  "and  I  read  every  bit 
of  it  I  can  find  time  for." 

Nothing  about  Barbara's  background 
was  theatrical.  She  grew  up  in  Detroit,  in 
an  average  kind  of  family,  has  two  mar- 
ried sisters  who  never  wanted  to  be 
actresses.  She  got  interested  because  the 
Detroit  school  system  has  a  visual  and 
radio  education  program  in  which  she 
participated  during  her  high  school  years. 
By  the  time  she  was  seventeen,  Barbara 
was  a  staff  announcer  for  Station  WJLB 
in  Detroit,  taking  to  it  as  calmly  as  other 
girls  take  to  shorthand  and  typing.  She 
never  had  mike-fright,  that  scourge  of  the 
novice.  ("Because  my  good  training  had 
taken  care  of  it.") 

Unlike  the  usual  young  actress,  every- 
thing which  has  come  her  way  profession- 
ally has  been  as  easy  and  simple  as  that. 


Her  first  job  was  the  product  of  a  war- 
time shortage  of  male  announcers  at  the 
smaller  stations,  and  she  had  opportimi- 
ties  she  might  have  waited  years  to  get 
during  any  other  period.  She  doubled  as 
a  disc  jockey,  engineered  her  own  board, 
still  holds  a  second-class  engineering  cer- 
tificate— surely  something  few  young  ac- 
tresses can  boast  of!  After  about  six 
months  of  announcing,  Barbara  got  so 
many  chances  to  act  on  radio  that,  in  an- 
other six  months,  she  began  to  give  full 
time  to  dramatic  roles.  She  was  on  the 
Lone  Ranger  program  for  a  long  time, 
among  many  other  shows. 

If  this  all  sounds  almost  too  easy  to  be 
true,  it's  because  it  was.  There  has  been 
none  of  the  proverbial  suffering  or  sacri- 
ficing. Jobs  just  happened  to  Barbara,  as 
a  matter  of  course,  after  she  prepared  her- 
self carefully  and  took  the  requisite  audi- 
tions. But  there  have  been  no  heartbreaks, 
no  tears,  no  shattered  dreams  .  .  .  not  the 
least  bit  like  the  usual  biography  of  a 
successful  player. 

When  she  was  21,  Barbara  decided  it 
was  time,  .  however,  to  put  one  planned 
move  to  the  test.  "By  that  time,"  she  says, 
"I  had  done  or  was  doing  just  about  every- 
thing I  could  on  a  small  station,  and  I 
knew  I  should  be  moving  along."  She 
wanted  to  get  into  New  York  radio. 
Friends  from  her  home  town  were  there 
to  keep  her  from  feeling  too  alone,  and 
she  was  sure  there  would  be  jobs,  plenty 
of  them,  when  she  got  started. 

There  were.  Within  a  few  months,  dur- 
ing which  she  was  constantly  seeing  peo- 
ple and  auditioning  for  them,  work  began 
to  flow  toward  her.  She  got  a  regular  as- 
signment on  an  early  evening  program  for 
children.  The  Sparrow  And  The  Hawk, 
which  many  people  still  remember  fondly. 
This  opened  the  door  to  other  jobs,  to 
dramatic  roles  on  many  of  the  big  night- 
time radio  programs  and  on  some  of  the 
daytime  dramas.  When  she  married,  her 
career  was  in  full  swing.  And,  when  Bry- 
den  was  born — although  she  took  almost 
two  years  away  from  radio — once  more, 
jobs  were  no  problem. 

About  a  year  later,  a  competitive  audi- 
tion was  held  for  the  part  of  Sibyl  Fuller 
in  The  Road  Of  Life  .  .  .  and  Barbara  got 
it — to  nobody's  surprise.  Her  deep-toned 
voice  (really  not  a  "blonde"  voice  at  all!) 
with  its  many  shadings  of  emotion,  seemed 
just  right  for  the  rebellious,  high-strung 
Sibyl,  just  as  her  rather  brittle  manner 
and  quick  gestures  also  seemed  right  later 
for  Sibyl  on  TV. 

About  this  woman  with  whom  she  has 
been  associated  for  almost  five  years,  Bar- 
bara says:  "I  find  Sibyl  a  sympathetic 
character  in  spite  of  the  many  things  she 
does  to  complicate  her  life  and  the  lives  of 
others.  I  have  learned  to  know  her  so  well 
and  to  understand  her  motivations.  I  am 


LET  THEM  BE  THE  FIRST  TO  WISH  YOU 

a  iWerrp  CfjrisJtmas; 

LIBERACE     •     JACK  BENNY     •     SANDY  BECKER 
MARY   STUART  of  Search   For  Tomorrow     •     Howdy   Doody's    BOB   SMITH 
JAMES  ARNESS  of  TVs  Gunsmoke       •       Welcome  Travelers'   PAT   MEIKLE 

They're  all  on  the  cover — 
T  a  colorful,  exciting  "gift  wrapping"  for  their  exclusive  stories  in  the 

*  DECEMBER 

issue  of  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  on  sale  November  8 


really  very  fond  of  her  by  now.  As  for  the 
others  on  the  show,  the  cast  and  the  pro- 
ducer and  director  and  crew,  I  can't  say 
enough  about  how  nice  they  are — the  best 
group  I  have  ever  worked  with." 

Bryden  sometimes  used  to  watch  his 
mother's  show  on  television,  when  the 
story  line  wasn't  too  adult  for  a  small 
boy,  and  Barbara  was  always  struck  with 
the  fact  that  he  never  talked  much  about 
how  she  looked  .  .  .  only  about  the  way 
she  worked.  ("He  thinks  I'm  a  good  ac- 
tress— and  of  course  I  love  that.") 

In  spite  of  the  fact  that  they  have  a  fine 
relationship,  Barbara  sticks  to  the  "I'm 
the  adult  and  you're  the  child"  rule  by 
which  she  herself  was  brought  up.  "We're 
not  what  the  modern  phrase  describes  as 
'pals,'  although  we  are  great  friends.  Bry- 
den knows  I  make  the  decisions,  because 
I'm  the  grownup  and  know  what  it's  all 
about,  and  because  there  are  times  when 
a  little  boy  must  accept  a  grownup's  au- 
thority. He's  a  real  boy,  however,  and  we 
have  a  lot  of  fun  together.  I  believe  that  I 
spend  as  much  time  with  him  as  other 
mothers  do  with  their  children.  I  try  to  be 
at  home  most  of  the  time  when  he  is,  and 
I  have  competent  help  when  I  am  not 
there. 

"Bryden  is  an  artistic  little  boy  who 
likes  to  go  to  art  museums,  and  I  try  to 
take  him  as  often  as  possible.  He  has  tal- 
ent for  music,  too.  When  he  learned  to 
play  an  old  instrument,  called  a  psaltery, 
in  the  private  day  school  he  attends  in 
winter,  he  couldn't  wait  until  he  saved 
enough  money  from  his  allowance  to  buy 
his  own  psaltery,  and  he  likes  to  practice 
on  it.  Summers,  we  have  a  cottage  up  in 
Connecticut  for  weekends  and,  during  the 
hottest  months,  he  goes  to  a  day  camp 
connected  with  his  school.  His  biggest  in- 
terests at  the  moment  are  pretty  normal — 
baseball  and  Davy  Crockett!" 

Mother  and  son  live  in  a  small  New 
York  apartment  not  too  far  from  the  CBS 
studios.  The  feature  that  makes  the  apart- 
ment seem  most  like  a  real  home  is  the 
big  outdoor  terrace,  almost  as  big  as  the 
whole  indoor  space  they  occupy.  It  is  their 
summer  living-  and  dining-room,  and  has 
encouraged  them  to  become  gardeners. 
They  even  grow  a  few  vegetables  in  deep 
boxes,  and  there  are  flowers  and  shrubs. 
The  apartment  is  done  in  pink  and  white 
and  black — black  furniture,  enlivened  by 
some  pink  painted  pieces,  such  as  their 
table,  and  white  rugs.  Pink  is  Barbara's 
favorite  color. 

When  you  ask  her  about  her  philosophy 
of  life,  or  her  goals,  she  laughs.  "My  phi- 
losophy of  life?  Well,  some  days  I  feel  that 
just  to  get  through  it  is  philosophy  enough. 
To  be  able  to  say,  'Well,  I  finally  made  it!' 
Seriously,  however,  I  believe  I  have  a 
philosophy  of  sorts,  and  a  goal — at  least  I 
have  an  idea  now  of  what  I  want  to  do 
with  my  life.  In  the  first  place,  I'm  young 
and  I  hope  to  marry  again.  I  would  like 
that  for  Bryden's  sake,  too. 

"And  I  want  always  to  go  on  with  my 
work.  I  want  to  go  on  being  Sibyl  Fuller. 
I  want  to  add  some  night-time  dramatic 
television  shows  to  my  list.  I  long  to  be  in 
a  play  someday — a  hit  show  on  Broadway, 
naturally!  And  a  motion  picture — a  hit 
movie,  of  course!  What  I'm  really  saying 
is  that  I  would  like  to  be  a  versatile  and 
well-rounded  actress,  and  a  happy  and 
fulfilled  woman." 

If  she  were  starting  again,  at  seventeen, 
would  she  still  choose  the  same  career?  "I 
would  still  want  to  be  an  actress.  But  still 
an  actress  who  does  all  her  acting  in  the 
studio,  or  on  a  stage  .  .  .  leaving  me  a 
simple,  everyday  sort  of  person  in  my  pri- 
vate life." 


odess 


Only  New  Design  Modess  gives  you  the  luxury  of  a  new 
whisper-soft  fabric  covering  ...  no  gauze  ...  no  chafe. 


RWoi  ohovt  oA-iioiii 


Tilnston! 


w. 


WINSTON  is  the  cigarette  selected  by  Capital  Air- 
lines to  serve  passengers  aboard  the  new  Viscount. 


INSTON  changed  America's  mind  about  filter 
smoking!  This  cigarette  gives  you  real  tobacco 
flavor  —  the  full,  rich  flavor  real  smokers  want. 
You  know  what  they  say:  "Winston  tastes  good 
—  like  a  cigarette  should!" 

Winston  also  brings  you  an  exclusive  filter  that 
really  does  the  job.  It  filters  so  effectively  that  the 
flavor  really  comes  through  to  you  —  smoothly 
and  easily.  Have  fun  —  have  a  Winston ! 


tie  eoAu-dncMJiMq  iM&i  a^anjstte 


Ill  TRAniO 
m.  \  MIRROR 

^10  MIRROR'S  N.  Y.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 


JACK  BENNY 


EXCLUSIVE 

SID  CAESAR'S 
Fabulous  Home 

Teen-age  Delight 
ROBIN  MORGAN 

PAUL  COATES' 
Confidential  File 


ERACE  and  Romance 


PAT  MEIKLE 


;v^.v3-. 


2U 


ATLAST  A  LIQUID  SHAMPOO 

THAT'S  EXTRA  RICH  • 


FOR 


It's  marvelous!— with  radiant  beauty  in  every  drop  —  exciting, 
new  Liquid  Prell!  It's  extra-rich  — that's  why  it  leaves  your  hair 
looking  so  'Radiantly  Alive'.  .  .  feeling  so  angelically  soft  .  .  . 
behaving  so  beautifully!  You'll  love  Liquid  Prell  and  its  unique, 
extra-rich  formula  that  bursts  instantly  into  mounds  of  richer, 
more  effective  lather.  Try  it  today! 


i 


JUST  POUR  IT... and  you'll  see  the  glorious  difference! 

Never  too  thin  and  watery  like  some  liquid  shampoos  .  .  . 
never  too  tliick  with  a  "filming"  ingredient  tliat  dulls  hair 
like  others.  Extra-Rieli  Liquid  Prell  has  just  the  right 
consistency— it  won't  run  and  it  never  leaves  a  dulling  film! 


PRELL— 

the  Radiant  Shampoo 
now  available  2  ways: 

There's  the  exciting,  new 
extra-rich  Hquid  in  the  hand- 
some, easy-grip  bottle! 

And,  of  course,  children  and 
grownups  ahke  love  famous 
Prell  in  the  handy  tube! 
Won't  spill,  drip,  or  break. 
So  economical,  too  —  ounce 
for  ounce  it  goes  further! 


CREATED   BY   PROCTER   B.  GAMBLE 


Nev\/! 
nov\/  safely 


Is  deodorant  disoovery 
stops  odor  24  hours  a  day 


What  matter  if  that  "castle"  is  still  a  blue-print?  For  him, 
the  girl's  a  dream-come-true  already  ...  so  sweet,  so  pert, 
so  always  huggable.  (And  she  stays  that  way  with  New  Mum.) 


This  original  doctor's  deodorant  now 
contains  M-3.  an  invisible  ingredient 
that  keeps  on  destroying  odor  bacteria 
24  hours  a  day. 

New  Mum  is  all-day  dependable  — 
used  by  more  fastidious  women  than 
any  other  deodorant.  Contains  no  harsh 


ingredients— will  not  block  pores  or  ir- 
ritate normal  skin.  Creamier  NewMuM 
is  fragrant,  gentle,  safe  for  prettiest 
fabrics  —  5fay5  moist  in  the  jar. 

Buy  New  MuM  today  at  any  toiletry 
counter  — it's  that  milk-white  jar  with 
the  bright  red  cap. 


Proved  in  comparison  tests  made 
by  a  doctor.  A  deodorant  without 
M-3,  tested  under  one  arm,  stopped 
perspiration  odor  only  a  few  hours. 
Yet  New  Mum  with  M-3,  tested  un- 
der the  other  arm,  stopped  odor  for 
a  full  24  hours. 


Nev\f  Munn< 


with  long-lasting  M-3  (hz.xachz.orophene) 

Another  fine  Product  of  Bristol-Myers 


This  Seal  certifies  that  New  MuM 
will  not  irritate  normal  skui  or 
damage  fabrics. 


DECEMBER,  1955 


W  RADIO 
MIRROR 

N.  ¥.,  N.  J.,  Conn.  Edition 


Ann  Higginbotham.  Editor 


VOL.  45,  NO.  I 


Ann  Mosher,  Executive  Editor 
Teresa  Buxton,  Managing  Editor 
Ellen  Taussig,  Associate  Editor 
Claire  Safran,  Assistant  Editor 


Jack  Zasorin,  Art  Director 
Frances  Maly,  Associate  Art  Director 
Joan  Clarke,  Art  Assistant 
Bud  Goode,  ^est  Coast  Editor 


people  on  the  air 


Now  you  can  look  smart  and 
stylish  with  sensational  low 
priced  glamorous  used  dresses 
that  have  been  cleaned  and 
pressed — in  good  condition  for 
all  occasions!  A  tremendous  as-  ' 
sortment  of  gorgeous  one  and 
two  piece  modern  styles  in  all 
beautiful  colors — in  a  variety 
of  luxurious  fabrics  of  rayons, 
cottons,  gabardines,  woolens, 
silks,  etc.  Expensive  dresses — 
original  value  up  to  $40! 

FREE!  12  Different  Sets  of  But- 
ton Cardsl  5  to  8  matched  but- 
tons on  each  card.  Worth  a  few 
dollars  —  but  yours  FREE  with 
dress  order. 

MONEY  BACK  GUARANTEE  COUPON! 

I     GUILD  MAIL  ORDER  HOUSE,  Dept.867  I 

lOnc  of  the  oldett  and  largest  mail  order  houses  of  its  kind) 
•     103  E.  Broadway,  New  York  2,  N.  Y.  | 

!  Rush  my  5  assorted  dresses  in  size  circled  below    I 

J  with    Free   Button   Cards.    Enclosed    find    $1    de-    I 

I  posit,    balance   C.O.D.    plus   postage.    Money    re- 

I  turned  if  not  completely  satisfied.  Canadian  and 

I  foreign  orders  accepted. 

I  Circle  Site: 

I  Girl's  Sizes  7,  8,  10.  12,  14  are  5  for  $2.75 

J  Junior  Miss  Sizes  9.  1 1 ,  1  3,  1  5  are  5  for  $3.75 

'  Sizes  12,  14,  16,  18,  20.  38,  40,  42,  44.  5  for  $3.75 

I  Sizes  M'/a,  16  ■/,  ,  18  ■/.  ,  20  ■/,  ,  22 '/i,  24  J^  ,  5  for  $3.75 

I  Extra  Large  Sizes  46,  48,  50,  52  are  5  for  $4.75 

I      D  Check    here   to  save   C.O.D.    fee.    Send    full 

I  amount  with  25<*  postage. 

,  D  Pleate    send  FREE  CATALCXl  FOR  FAMILY 

I 
I 

I     Addrei* _ 

L   City Zone     ...State.. _ ..    - 


Name... 


What's  New  from  Coast  to  Coast by  Jill  Warren  4 

Andy's  Gang  (Andy  Devine) 14 

What  Romance  Means  to  Me by  Liberace  29 

Just  Naturally  Jan  (Janette  Davis) by  Martin  Cohen  32 

He'll  Always  Be  Grateful  (James  ArnesS) by  Ernst  Jaeobi  36 

Glamour  Is  a  State  of  Mind  (Marjorie  Gateson) by  Ed  Meyerson  38 

TV    Radio   Mirror    Awards   for    1955-56    (vote   today   in    the   only 

nationwide  poll  of  listeners  and  viewers) 40 

Straight  from  his  Heart    (Paul   Coates) by   Bud  Goode  42 

Welcome  to  Our  Family  (Pat  Meikle  and  Hal  Cooper) 

by  Helen  Bolstad  54 

City  Hospital  (short-short  story  from  the  popular  weekly  series) 58 

The  Long  Way  Home   (Sid  Caesar) by  Phil  Lewis  60 

The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent  (picture  story  from  the  daytime  serial)  62 

He's  a  Great  Granddad!    (Jack  Benny) by   Fredda    Balling  66 


features  in  full  color 

Mama's  "Little  Girl"  (Robin  Morgan) by  Mary  Temple  44 

More  than  Anyone  Could  Ask    (Sandy  Becker) by  Frances  Kish  46 

To  Cynthia  with  Love ....by  Mary  Stuart  50 

Got  the  Sun  in  the  Morning  (Bob  Smith) by  Warren  Cromwell  52 


your  local  station 

Man  of  the  Morning  (WICC)..... 6 

Smile  Awhile   (WNAC.  WNAC-TV) 12 

Doing  What  Comes  Naturally    (WRCA-TV) 20 

Anything  Goes    (WMUR-TV)... 26 


your  special  services 

Steve   Allen's   Turntable 8 

Information    Booth 10 

New  Patterns  for  You  (smart  wardrobe  suggestions) 18 

Daytime  Diary 22 

Inside  Radio  (program  listings).. 72 

TV  Program  Highlights 74 

New  Designs  for  Living    (needlework  and  transfer  patterns) 84 

Cover  portrait  of  Liberace  by  Mel  Traxel 


m 


buy  your  January  copy  early   •    on  sale  December  6 


PUBLISHED    MONTHLY   by   Macfadden   Publications.    Inc.v    Nfw; 

York.    N.    Y. 

EXECUTIVE,     ADVERTISING     AND     EDITORIAL    OFFICES     at 

205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y.  Editorial  Branch 
OlTice:  321  South  Beverly  Drive,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.  Irving 
S  Manheimer.  President;  Lee  Andrews,  Vl\se  President;  Meyer 
Dworkin.  Secretary  and  Treasurer.  Advertising  offices  also  in 
Chicafo,  221  North  LaSalle  Street,  and  San  Francisco. 
SUBSCRIPTION  RATES:  S3. 00 
slons  and  Canada.  $5.00  per  y< 
CHANGE  OF  ADDRESS:  6  weeks'  notice  essential.  When  poa- 
.slble,  please  furnish  stencil -Impress  ion  address  from  a  re- 
rt'nt  Issue.  Address  changes  can  be  made  only  if  you  send  us 
your  .old,  as  well  as  your  new  address.  Write  to  TV  Radio 
MltTor,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 
MANUSCRIPTS:  All  manuscripts  will  be  carefully  considered, 
but    publisher    cannot    be    responsible    for    loss   or   damage.    It 

Member   of   the  TRITE 


IS  advisable  to  keep  a  duplicate  copy  <ov  your  records.  Only 
those  manuscripts  accompanied  by  stamped,  self-addressed 
return  envelopes  oi  with  sufficient  return  pOKtape  will  be 
returned. 

FOREIGN  editions  handled  through  Macfadden  Publications 
International  Corp.,  205  East  42nd  Street,  New  York  17, 
N.  Y.  Irving  S.  Manheimer.  President;  Dnug^las  Lockhart. 
Vice  President.  ,  .„,„,.. 

RE-ENTERED  as  Second  Class  Matter,  .lune  28,  1954.  at  the 
Post  Office  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3, 
1879  Autiiorized  as  Second  Class  mail,  P.  O.  Dept.  Ottawa. 
Ont,,  Canada.  Copyright  1955  by  Macfadden  Publications,  Inc. 
AU  rights  reserved  under  International  Copyright  Convention 
All  rights  reserved  under  Pan-American  Copyright  Conven- 
tion Todos  derechos  reservados  segun  la  Convencion  Pan- 
Americana  de  Propiedad  Literaria  y  Artistica.  Title  tradenia™ 
registered  in  U.  S.  Patent  Office.  Printed  in  IT  S  A.  by  Art 
Color  Printing  Company 
STORY    Women's  Group 


m       ) 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTIC 


STOPS  BAD  BREATH 
4TIMESBETTERTHAN 
ANY  TOOTH  PASTE 


Germs  are  the  major  cause  of  bad  breath — 
and  no  tooth  paste  kills  germs  like  Listerine 
. . .  Instantly,  by  millions 


The  most  common  cause  of  bad  breath 
is  the  fermentation  of  proteins  which  are 
always  present  in  your  mouth.  Germs  in 
your  mouth  attack  proteins,  cause  them 
to  ferment,  and  bad  breath  results.  So, 
the  more  you  reduce  germs  in  the  mouth, 
the  longer  your  breath  stays  sweeter. 

Listerine  Antiseptic  kills  germs 
by  millions! 

Listerine  Antiseptic  kills  germs  by  mil- 
hons  on  contact  .  .  .  instantly  halts  the 
fermentation  which  they  cause.  Fifteen 
minutes  after  gargling  with  Listerine, 
tests  showed  that  germs  on  tooth,  mouth 
and  throat  surfaces  were  reduced  up  to 
96.7%;  one  hour  afterward  as  much  as 
80%.  That  explains  why  in  clinical  tests 
Listerine  averaged  four  times  better  in 
stopping  bad  breath  than  the  tooth  pastes 
it  was  tested  against. 

Listerine  Antiseptic 
acts  on  many  surfaces 

You  see,  tooth  paste  depends  largely  on 
mechanical  and  masking  methods  of 
removing  unpleasant  mouth  odors.  But 
Listerine  acts  anriseptically  on  many  sur- 
faces .  .  .  the  teeth,  mouth,  throat.  It 
kills  disease-producing  germs  as  well  as 
many  types  of  odor-producing  germs. 
No  tooth  paste  offers  proof  like  this  of 
killing  germs  that  cause  bad  breath. 


LISTERINE  ANTISEPTI 


•  By  Jill  Warren 


Suburbia  gets  a  mild  ribbing  in  My  Favorite 
Husband,  w\ih  Vanessa  Brown  end  Barry  Nelson. 


With  actress-wife  Virginia  Mayo  and  baby  Mary  Catherine,  Michael 
O'Shea  finds,  as  per  the  title  of  his  NBC-TV  show.  It's  A  Great  Life. 


WHAT'S  NEW  FROM 


TAKING  its  name  from  the  cen- 
tury we  live  in,  Project  20,  NBC's 
ambitious  TV  entry  this  season, 
premieres  on  the  network  Thursday 
night,  November  13,  with  "Night- 
mare in  Red."  This  will  be  a  one- 
hour  film  show,  produced  by  Henry 
Salomon,  who  did  Victory  At  Sea 
last  year,  with  a  special  musical 
background  composed  by  Robert 
Russell  Bennett.  "Nightmare  in  Red" 
will  be  a  documented  history  of 
Russia  from  the  Russian  Revolution 
to  present  times,  using  film  clips  and 
captured  films  (from  Europe)  of 
Lenin,  Stalin,  and  others,  most  of 
which  have  never  been  seen  before. 
Project  20  will  be  seen  on  various 
Thursday  nights,  with  the  date  of 
the  next  show,  scheduled  to  be  "The 
Jazz  Age,"  starring  Fred  Allen,  still 
to  be  announced. 

CBS-TV  also  has  a  new  documen- 
tary series  called  "Wanted,"  which 
is  seen  on  Thursday  nights.  On 
this  half-hour,  the  "actors"  are 
actually  real  criminals  and  real 
officers  of  the  law.   There  are  also 


factual  picturizations  of  crime  and 
the  never-ending  hunt  for  the  na- 
tion's most  wanted  fugitives  from 
justice.  True  to  its  title,  "Wanted" 
will  deal  only  with  criminals  still 
at  large. 

NBC  Opera  Theater  is  set  to  be 
a  regular  once-a-month  Sunday - 
afternoon  TV  production,  alternat- 
ing with  Maurice  Evans  Presents 
The  Hallmark  Hall  Of  Fame  and 
Wide,  Wide  World.  Opera  Theater, 
with  "Griffelkin"  as  its  first  presen- 
tation, will  present  a  two-hour  per- 
formance of  "Madame  Butterfly"  on 
December  4,  with  Mozart's  "The 
Magic  Flute"  scheduled  for  January. 

Hallm,ark  Hall  Of  Fame  show  for 
November  20  will  be  "The  Devil's 
Disciple,"  by  George  Bernard  Shaw. 
Co-starred  will  be  Maurice  Evans 
and  Dennis  King,  recreating  their 
original  roles  from  the  Broadway 
production. 

ABC-TV  has  lined  up  a  most  im- 
pressive list  of  movies  to  be  shown 
this  season  on  their  new  Famous 
Film,  Festival,  seen  Sunday  nights, 


with  Allyn  Edwards  as  host.  The 
dates  will  be  announced  later,  but 
you  may  look  forward  to  such  fine 
movies  as  "The  Importance  of  Being 
Earnest,"  "Notorious  Gentleman," 
"Stairway  to  Heaven,"  "Tight  Little 
Island,"  "The  Woman  in  Question," 
"The  Man  in  Grey,"  "Madonna  of 
the  Seven  Moons,"  and  "The  Mi- 
kado." If  you  missed  any  of  these 
when  they  were  originally  released, 
now  is  your  chance  to  see  them  in 
your  living  room. 

In  the  spectacular  department, 
you  can  see  Max  Liebman's  produc- 
tion of  "Dearest  Enemy,"  on  NBC- 
TV,  Saturday  night,  November  26. 
It  will  star  Anne  Jeffreys  and  Robert 
Sterling,  and  the  music  and  lyrics 
are  by  Richard  Rodgers  and  the 
late  Larry  Hart. 

Sunday  night,  December  4,  will 
find  Maurice  Chevalier  starring  in  a 
musical-variety  revue,  as  one  of 
NBC -TV's  spectaculars  this  season. 
This  will  be  Chevalier's  first  live 
television  appearance  in  this  coun- 
try,   though   he   has   been   a    video 


Songstress  Lu  Ann  Simms  and  husband  Loring  Buzzell  welcome  baby  Cynlhia 
Lee,  who's  Lu  Ann's  reason  for  being  absent  fronn  Arthur  Godfrey's  shows. 


favorite    in    France    for    some    time. 

Jack  Benny  has  emceed  and  pro- 
duced a  special  half-hour  television 
fibn  for  the  National  Society  for 
Retarded  Children,  and  it  will  be 
seen  throughout  the  country  during 
National  Retarded  Children's  Week, 
November  13  to  23.  Benny,  as  hon- 
orary chairman  of  this  fine  organi- 
zation, assembled  an  all-star  cast  for 
the  show,  all  of  whom  freely  donated 
their  talents.  Irene  Dunne,  Bob 
Crosby  and  his  daughter  Cathy, 
Marge  and  Gower  Champion,  The 
Modernaires,  Art  Linkletter,  Liber- 
ace  and  brother  George,  and  Don 
Wilson  appear  in  the  film.  All  pro- 
duction facilities  for  the  show  were 
lent  by  CBS-TV.  Incidentally,  this 
program  will  not  be  broadcast  on  a 
network  hook-up,  but  will  be  seen 
on  local  stations  throughout  the 
country. 

There's  a  new  TV  show  for  the 
youngsters,  Saturday  mornings  on 
NBC.  It's  called  Fury,  and  is  an 
adventiire  series  about  a  wild  stal- 
lion and  a  city  waif,  starring  eleven- 


year-old  Bobby  Diamond  and  Gypsy, 

a  prize -winning  movie  horse.  The 
story  has  been  adapted  from 
the  classic  children's  story,  "Black 
Beauty." 

With  the  many  new  shows  and 
spectaculars  to  dazzle  viewers'  eyes, 
the  sturdy  favorite,  Studio  One, 
goes  into  its  eighth  year  of  present- 
ing hour-long  original  dramas  and 
adaptations  of  famed  plays  and 
novels.  Felix  Jackson,  who  starts  his 
third  season  as  producer,  promises 
more  good  things  to  come. 

This  'n'  That: 

The  year's  most  talked-about 
wedding  finally  took  place  on 
September  26  as  Eddie  Fisher  and 
Debbie  Reynolds  were  married.  The 
wedding  was  held  at  the  upstate 
New  York  home  of  Mrs.  Elaine 
Grossinger  Etess,  daughter  of  Mrs. 
Jennie  Grossinger,  owner  of  the 
famous  Grossinger's  Catskill  Moun- 
tains resort,  where  Eddie  launched 
his  career  six  years  ago. 

Singer  Merv  GriflBn  has  joined  the 


cast  of  Robert  Q.  Lewis'  daily  CBS- 
TV  show,  and  The  Chordettes  have 
departed,  though  they're  still  heard 
on  Robert  Q.'s  radio  show.  The  cast 
change  came  about  because  the 
producers  wanted  to  revamp  the 
program  a  bit. 

Ronny  Burns,  the  twenty-year-old 
son  of  George  Burns  and  Gracie 
Allen,  has  now  become  a  permanent 
cast  member  of  his  parents'  comedy 
TV  show.  Ronny  made  his  televi- 
sion debut  with  Jack  Benny  on 
the  Shower  Of  Stars  presentation 
of  "Time  Out  for  Ginger." 

Dennis  Day  and  his  wife  are  ex- 
pecting an  addition  to  their  family 
in  January,  which  will  make  it 
number  five  for  the  Days.  Also  on 
the  stork's  future  list  is  Roxanne, 
Bud  Collyer's  beautiful  assistant  on 
Beat  The  Clock.  While  she's  away 
from  the  TV  cameras,  Roxaime  will 
be  replaced  by  Beverly  Bentley. 

Eric  Sevareid,  CBS'  news  analyst 
and  Washington  correspondent,  has 
established  a  scholarship  of  $1000 
{Continued  on  page  16) 


Bob  Crane  and  his  unusual  idea^ 
make  his  merry  morning  show 
a  must  for  WICC  listeners 


MAN  OF  THE  MORNING 


AGLiB-TONGUED,  fast-thinking,  pixilated  young  man 
joined  Bridgeport's  Station  WICC  last  June  and 
has  since  been  signing  on  the  air  at  6:05  A.M.,  Monday 
through  Saturday,  with  The  Bob  Crane  Show.  Four 
hours  and  ten  minutes  later- — after  a  program  of  chat- 
ter and  music,  punctuated  by  exchanges  with  the 
raucous  critics  and  cynics  that  Bob  has  assembled  on 
tapes,  records  and  transcriptions — he  signs  off.  But, 
after  some  five  months  of  helping  Bridgeport  listeners 
face  the  dawn's  early  light  bravely,  Bob  still  hates  to 
get  up  in  the  morning.  .  .  .  However,  as  Bob  breakfasts 
and  simultaneously  presides  over  three  turntables  and 
two  tape  machines,  life  begins  to  look  better.  After 
all,  the  program  does  give  Bob  a  chance  to  beat  out 
an  occasional  passage  on  his  bongo  drums  ("great") 
or  give  out  with  some  baritone  singing  ("mediocre"). 
"I'm  really  a  ham  at  heart,"  Bob  grins,  "and  live  and 
breathe  my  four-hour  show  throughout  the  twenty- 
four."  He's  constantly  looking  for  new  voices  and  gim- 
micks to  spring  on  his  listeners — who,  incidentally, 
comprise  75%  of  the  area's  radio  audience.  .  .  .  Morn- 
ing man  Crane  hails  from  Waterbury,  Connecticut, 
saw  his  first  dawn  on  Friday,  July  13,  1928,  and  says, 
"Friday  the  13th  is  significant  in  this  case,"  adding 
that  "I  began  talking  to  myself  at  once,  though  no  one 
could  understand  me.  This  is  a  failing  that  was  to  stay 
with  me."  .  .  .  Bob  went  to  school  in  Stamford,  was 
always  interested  in  acting  but  was  too  busy  playing 
the  drums  during  and  after  school  hours.  He  began 
playing  professionally  at  fourteen,  and  has  played  with 
the  Bobby  Dukoflf,  Billy  Butterfield,  Tony  Parenti, 
Eddie  Safranski  and  Larry  Fotine  bands  and  with  the 
Connecticut  Symphony.  He  currently  plays  at  such 
spots  as  The  Westnor  in  Westport,  the  Glen  Island 
Casino  in  New  Rochelle  and  Armonk's  Log  Cabin.  .  .  . 
Several  years  ago,  after  being  on  the  road  with  bands. 
Bob  decided  he  didn't  like  the  idea  of  traveling.  He 
started  to  knock  at  the  doors  of  stations  throughout 
the  East,  was  told:  "No,  not  the  type  for  radio."  Finally, 
in  1950,  he  landed  a  job  doing  farm  reports  and  news 
at  WLEA  in  Hornell,  New  York.  A  week  later,  heads 
rolled  at  the  station  and,  with  the  mass  firings.  Bob 
wound  up  as  the  station  emcee,  deejay  and  assistant 
program  director.    Next  he  moved  to  WBIS  in  Bristol 


Gimmicks  are  Bob's  specialty.   His  hen-critic  cackles  her 
views  and,  "the  better  a  record,  the  fewer  eggs  it  lays." 


where  he  did  a  morning  show.  One  day,  a  guest  failed 
to  show  up  and  Bob  started  using  gimmicks  and  sound 
effects.  "After  all  the  years  of  talking  to  myself,"  he 
says,  "I  found  that  it  was  better  to  talk  back  to 
records."  Having  developed  his  format.  Bob  did  a  stint 
at  WLIZ,  then  joined  WICC.  .  .  .  Aside  from  gimmicks, 
Bob's  record  preferences  are  for  "good  swinging  jazz," 
Stan  Kenton,  Bobby  Dukoff  and,  in  the  vocal  depart- 
ment, Ella  Fitzgerald,  Bob  Manning,  Anita  Boyer  and 
Frank  Sinatra.  He  plays  current  pops,  light  jazz  and' 
old  standards  on  the  show.  ...  In  his  spare  time.  Bob 
collects  records,  listens  to  the  competition  and  plays 
the  drums.  He's  in  great  demand  as  an  emcee,  beauty- 
contest  judge  and  speaker.  In  fact,  Bob  Crane  is 
simply  in  great  demand  throughout  Connecticut. 


-* — JlraP^' 


\ 


Your  dream  can 


WIN*IO,000! 

maiden/prm 

dream  Q/ contest 

That  dream  you've  been  waiting  to  see  in  a  Maidenform  advertisement .  .  .■ 
it  may  win  you  $10,000  in  cash!  —  or  any  one  of  239  other  cash  prizes! 
So  send  in  your  dream  ideas  immediately — you  may  be  one  of  the  lucl<y  winners! 

NOTHING  TO  BUY!  EVERYONE  CAN  TRY!  SEND  IN  AS  MANY  ENTRIES  AS  YOU  WISH! 


Win  $10,000!  Pick  ttie  dream 
in  which  Chonsonette, 
America's  favorite  bra  (as 
shownl,  will  be  featured. 
It  rounds  as  it  accentuates  . . . 
makes  the  most  of  every 
curve  you  own.  2.00,  2.50 


Put  on  your  thinking  cap.  Dream  up  a  dream  like  "I  dreamed  I  played  Cleopatra 
in  my  Maidenform  bra".  Remember?  Or — "I  dreamed  I  was  a  toreador" 
— "I  dreamed  I  was  a  social  butterfly".  What's  your  prize-winning  dream? 

FIRST  PRIZE  $10,000  cosh!  SECOND  PRIZE  $3,000  cosh!  THIRD  PRIZE  $1,000  cash! 

4  prizes  of  $250  each;  10  prizes  of  $100  each;  25  prizes  of  $50 
each  and  200  prizes  of  $20  each! 
Over  $20,000  In  cosh  prizes! 


Rules  for  the  Maidenform  Dream  Contest 


1.  Nothing  to  buy  —  no  box  tops  to  send  in,  just  'dream  up'  as  many  sug- 
gestions as  you  wish.  However,  each  entry  must  be  submitted  with  an 
official  entry  bianlt.  Additional  entry  blanks  may  be  picked  up  at  any 
Maidenform  dealer.  Each  entry  must  also  be  accompanied  by  a  different 
statement  of  twenty-five  words  or  less  which  completes  this  sentence: 
"I  prefer  (Maidenform,  world's  most  popular  bra,  because...". 

2.  All  entries  will  be  judged  by  The  Reuben  H.  Donnelley  Corporation  on  the 
basis  of  originality,  aptness  and  general  interest  of  the  dream  suggestion 
and  statement  which  accompanies  it.  Fancy  entries  won't  count  extra. 
Judges'  decisions  will  be  final.  All  entries  become  the  exclusive  prop- 
erty of  the  sponsor;  and  all  rights  are  given  by  the  contestant  without 
compensation,  for  use  of  all  or  any  part  of  his  entry  in  the  sponsor's 
advertising.  Duplicate  prizes  awarded  in  case  of  ties.  The  entry  must  be 
the  original  work  of  the  contestant. 

3  Any  person,  residing  in  the  United  States,  its  possessions  and  Canada, 
may  enter  the  contest,  except  employees,  or  members  of  their  imme- 
diate families,  of  the  sponsor  and  its  advertising  agencies.  All  members 
of  a  family  may  enter,  but  only  one  prize  will  be  awarded  to  a  family. 
Contest  is  subject  to  government  regulations. 
4.  Send  all  entries  tO;  Maidenform  Dream  Contest,  P.  0;  Box  57A,  Mt. 
Vernon,  New  York.  Entries  must  be  postmarked  no  later  than  November 
30th,  1955  to  be  eligible. 

5  All  winners  will  be  notified  by  mail  within  four  weeks  of  closing  date. 
Winners'  list  will  be  sent  to  all  who  request  it  with  a  self  addressed, 
stamped  envelope. 


Official  Entry  Blank 


MAIDENFORM  DREAM  CONTEST 
P.O.  Box  57A,  Dept.  132F 
Mt.  Vernon,  N.Y. 


dreamed  L 


j'n  my  Maidenform  bra" 


NAME__ 
STREET_ 
CITY 


_STATL- 


Complete  this  sentence  in  25  words  or  less:  I  prefer  Maidenform,  world's  most 
popular  bra,  because '. "   " 


STEVE  ALLEN'S 
TURNTABLE 


HI,  THERE,  and  welcome  to  the  meeting. 
The  subject  is  music,  as  usual,  and 
I've  got  a  nice  bundle  of  new  record- 
ings to  tell  you  about. 

Let's  start  off  with  a  new  Les  Paul-Mary 
Ford  etching  of  something  called  "Amu- 
kiriki,"  which  should  be  a  big  hit  for  this 
popular  husband  and  wife  team.  It's  a 
smooth  ballad  done  up  in  the  dreamy  style 
of  their  "Vaya  Con  Dios,"  with  a  multi- 
vocal  by  Mary,  of  course.  The  title  is 
taken  from  the  current  travel  film  of  the 
same  name.  The  other  side  of  the  record 
is  a  Les  Paul  original,  "Magic  Melody," 
with  Mary  humming  the  melody.  It  has 
a  curious  ending,  to  the  tune  of  "Shave  and 
a  Hair  Cut,  Two  Bits,"  but  the  "two  bits" 
part  is  missing.  So,  as  a  gimmick,  Capitol 
has  recorded  the  shortest  record  in  history 
— just  a  "bum-bum"  in  place  of  the  "two 
bits"— which  disc  jockeys  will  be  playing 
separately.  What  will  these  companies  be 
thinking  of  next? 

Ella  Fitzgerald,  one  of  my  favorite  vocal 
ladies,  has  a  terrific  new  album  called 
"Sweet  and  Hot,"  in  which  she  does  all  old 
tunes,  ranging  from  the  softest  ballad  to 
the  torrid  swing  stuff,  as  only  Ella  can  do 
it.  "Thanks  for  the  Memory,"  "It  Might 
As  Well  Be  Spring,"  "Old  Devil  Moon" 
and  a  two-part  version  of  "You'll  Have  To 
Swing  It  (Mr.  Paganini)"  are  just  a 
few.  Sy  Oliver,  Andre  Previn,  John  Scott 
Trotter  and  Benny  Carter  share  the  or- 
chestra credits.     (Decca) 

Cha-chas  can  come  and  go,  but  Xavier 
Cugat  and  his  rhumba  stuff  go  on  and  on. 
Cugie's  newest  is  a  love  song,  done  in  the 
sway-hip  tempo,  natch,  called  "Who  Me?", 
with  his  better  half,  Abbe  Lane,  singing 


Jill  Corey,  who  appears  with  Johnny 
Corson  on  TV,  solos  with  a  cute  ditty, 
"Ching  Ching  A-Ling,"  for  Columbia. 


the  lyrics.  On  the  reverse,  the  Cugat  crew 
do  another  rhumba,  "At  Last  We're 
Alone,"  with  a  vocal  chorus.    (Epic) 

"Bing  in  the  1930's"  is  a  nostalgia-filled 
album  that  anyone  who  collects  Crosby 
will  just  have  to  have.  These  are  all  orig- 
inal recordings  of  some  of  the  great  tunes 
Bing  made  popular  twenty  or  so  years 
ago,  such  as  "I  Found  a  Million  Dollar 
Baby,"  "Faded  Summer  Love,"  "Just  One 
More  Chance,"  "Good  Night,  Sweetheart," 
and  others.    (Coral) 

The  Chordettes  have  a  new  one,  "The 
Wedding,"  to  which  they  give  their  ballad- 
style  interpretation.  On  the  backing,  in 
barber-shop  style,  the  gals  do  "I  Don't 
Know,  I  Don't  Care,"  which  once  was  an 
Italian  song,  "Souvenir  D'ltalie,"  before  it 
was  given  an  American  title  and  lyric. 
Archie  Bleyer's  orchestra  on  both.  (Ca- 
dence) 

Columbia  is  issuing  a  new  album  by 
Dave  Brubeck,  "Jazz — -Red,  Hot  and  Cool," 
and  the  name  fits  the  music,  to  say  the 
least.  The  whole  set  was  recorded  at  New 
York's  famous  Basin  Street  Club,  during 
one  of  the  recent  appearances  of  this  hot 
quartet.  Brubeck,  who  is  considered  one 
of  America's  top  young  jazz  pianists,  comes 
through  with  some  great  keyboard  work. 

This  seems  to  be  the  year  for  song  hits 
via  television,  and  the  newest  entry  in  this 
category  is  "The  White  Buffalo,"  which 
James  Brown  introduced  on  Rin  Tin  Tin  a 
couple  of  weeks  ago,  and  which  he  has 
recorded  for  M-G-M.  The  backing  is  a 
new  Western-flavored  ballad,  "It's  Lone- 
some Out  Tonight." 

Bill  Hayes  has  also  waxed  "The  White 
Buffalo,"  coupled  with  a  new  novelty, 
"Kwela  Kwela,"  which  is  a  South  African 
melody.  Archie  Bleyer's  orchestra  pro- 
vides the  music,  with  Archie  playing  a 
rhythm  instrument  called  the  "pogo  cello," 
which  he  rigged  up  out  of  a  pogo  stick  and 
strings,  especially  ior  this  recording.  (Ca- 
dence) 

Joni  James  has  a  new  album,  "When  I 
Fall  in  Love,"  in  which  she  sings  twelve 
songs  all  strictly  about — you  guessed  it, 
love.  David  Perry's  orchestra  plays  ro- 
mantic music  for  Missy  James  as  she 
croons  "To  Each  His  Own,"  "Love  Letters," 
"As  Time  Goes  By,"  "Where  Can  I  Go 
Without  You,"  and  others.     (M-G-M) 

Herb  Shriner  formed  his  own  harmonica 
orchestra,  landed  a  Columbia  recording 
contract,  and  steps  forth  with  his  first  re- 
lease, "'Tumbling  Tumble  Weeds"  and  "It's 
the  Talk  of  the  Town."  The  Hoosier  hu- 
morist and  his  lads  do  a  good  job  on  both, 
with  Shriner  coming  across  on  a  couple  of 
solo  passages. 

"Harry  James  in  Hi-Fi"  is  a  new  Capitol 
album,  starring  James  and  his  Music  Mak- 
ers. They  do  old  James  favorites  such  as 
"You  Made  Me  Love  You,"  "I've  Heard 
That  Song  Before,"  "I'm  Beginning  To  See 
the  Light,"  "I  Cried  for  You,"  their  theme, 
"Ciribiribin,"  and  others.     There   are  fine 


vocals  by  Helen  Forrest,  who  was  James' 
singer  about  ten  years  ago,  and  Harry  plays 
some  wonderful  trumpet  solos,  as  only  he 
can. 

M-G-M  has  signed  two  new  vocalists, 
and  both  bid  to  do  well  for  themselves. 
The  first  is  the  young  English  baritone, 
Johnny  Brandon,  who  is  well-known 
abroad.  For  his  initial  American  release, 
he  gives  the  British  crooner  touch  to  "Don't 
Worry"  and  "Sing  Me  Something  Soft 
and  Sentimental,"  both  ballads.  Norman 
Warren  conducts  the  orchestra.  The  sec- 
ond is  a  young  lad  named  Marvin  Rain- 
water, a  folk  singer  and  composer,  who 
M-G-M  hopes  will  be  the  successor  to  the 
late  Hank  Williams.  For  his  first  record 
under  his  new  contract.  Rainwater  sings 
two  of  his  own  compositions,  "Sticks  and 
Stones,"  a  philosophical  ballad,  and  "Al- 
bino (Pink-Eyed)  Stallion,"  a  rousing 
ditty  alDout  a  wild  horse  in  the  Wild  West. 
Incidentally,  Rainwater  is  one  of  the  stars 
of  the  Ozark  Jubilee  show,  now  seen  na- 
tionally on  ABC-TV. 

Alfredo  Antonini  and  his  orchestra  have 
a  beautiful  new  instrumental  record  in 
"Why  Reach  for  the  Moon?"  and  the  theme 
music  from  "The  Lost  Hour."  Incidental- 
ly, the  latter  was  used  as  the  background 
melody  for  the  "Three  Empty  Rooms"  TV 
production  on  Studio  One  a  few  weeks 
ago.  Both  these  sides  are  also  included  in 
the  forthcoming  "Atmosphere  by  Antonini" 
album.     (Coral) 

Lillian  Briggs,  the  "I  Want  You  To  Be  My 
Baby"  girl,  may  have  another  hit  with  her 
new  one,  "Give  Me  a  Band  and  My  Baby." 
The  twenty-two-year-old  newcomer  from 
AUentown,  Pennsylvania,  belts  out  the  lyr- 
ics for  all  they're  worth.  The  coupling  is 
a  ballad,  "It  Could've  Been  Me."  (Epic) 
You'll  be  seeing  Lillian  on  TV  this  season 
when  she  appears  on  Stage  Show  from 
time  to  time. 

"Walt  Disney  Song  Carousel"  is  a  new 
Victor  album  which  should  appeal  to 
adults  as  well  as  the  kids.  Included  are 
twelve  well-known  songs  from  various  Dis- 
ney productions  of  the  past,  such  as  "When 
You  Wish  Upon  a  Star,"  "Whistle  While 
You  Work,"  "Never  Smile  at  a  Croco- 
dile," and  the  lovely  "Bella  Notte."  Joe 
Reisman  did  the  beautiful  arrangements, 
and  conducts  the  orchestra  and  chorus. 
Victor  has  done  up  a  specially  designed 
cover  for  this  album — it  stands  up  in  the 
form  of  a  castle,  with  pictures  of  many  of 
the  charming  and  well-known  Disney 
characters. 

Jill  Corey's  latest  is  aimed  straight  at 
the  teen-age  population,  and  it  should 
bring  in  the  jukebox  shekels.  Jill  does  a 
cute  novelty,  "Ching  Ching  A-Ling,"  along 
with  "Look  Look!"  a  musical  tale  about  a 
girl  and  boy  out  on  a  date.     (Columbia) 

And  look,  look — my  space  is  up.  But  I'll 
be  meeting  you  back  here  next  month 
with  a  special  roundup  of  Christmas  rec- 
ords to  give  and  to  get. 


1  NOW  YOU  CAN  AFFORD  TO  TRY 


\ 


24  WORLD  FAMOUS  PERFUMES 
WORTH  UP  T0*20  AN  OUNCE! 


Find  the  perfect  perfume  for  you!  You  get  all  24  precious 
fragrances  listed  below.  You'll  find  delicate,  deceptively  innocent 
scents  .  .  .  daring,  exotic  scents  .  .  .  fragrant  florals  .  .  .  haunting 
perfumes  that  make  you  feel  fabulously  glamorous!  You  get 
24  of  these  perfume  "Nips"  (shown  actual  size).  Each  contains 
enough  perfume  for  one  generous  application.  Every  drop  usable 
.  .  .  there's  no  spilling  or  evaporating  with  Nips!  Packed  in 
slender,  golden-hright  tubes — perfect  to  carry  in  your  purse. 


OlVITi^ 


THESE  ARE  "NrPS"  — 
SHOWN  ACTUAL  SIZE 


60 


4 


plus  any  3  Camay  wrappers 


YOU    GET   THESE  24    PRECIOUS   FRAGRANCES 

MARY  CHESS  White  Lllac,  Tapestry,  Yram 

LENTHERIC  Tweed,  Shanghai,  Miracle,  Dark  Brilliance 

ANJOU  Side  Glance,  Devastating,  Apropos 

COUNTESS  MARITZA  Silent  Night,  White  Mist 

CHARBERT  Breathless 

BOURJOIS  Roman  Holiday,  Evening  in  Paris 

HARRIET  HUBBARD  AYER  Golden  Chance 

BLANCHARD  Jealousy,  Evening  Star,  Conflict 

ROGER  &  GALLET  Fleur D' Amour,  Blue  Carnation,  Santalia 

LANIER  Folie  De  Minuit,  Palomar 


MAIL  COUPON  TODAY!* 


!EAI 


KAM 


Wonderful  chance  to  discover  Camay's 
Caressing  Care!  Like  exquisite  Camay  Brides  and 

beautiful  women  everywhere,  you'll 
love  Camay's  mild  and  gentle  ways,  satin-smooth 
lather,  and  exclusive  fragrance.  No  other 
beauty  soap  pampers  your  skin  like  Camay! 


Camay,  Dept.  E,  Box  25,  Cincinnati  1,  Ohio 


Please  send  me- 


-Camay  Perfume  Sampler  packets.  I  am 


enclosing  50(i  and  3  Camay  Soap  wrappers  for  each  packet. 


Street- 


City- 


_Zone_ 


_State_ 


Please  allow  at  least  21  days  for  your  perfume  to  reach  you  as  it  takes 
that  long  to  handle  your  order  properly.  Offer  good  only  in  continental 
U.S..  including  Alaska  and  Hawaii.  Please  be  sure  to  put  sufficient 
postage  on  your  envelope.   Offer  expires  April    10.    1956. 


Rhythm-in-Red !  A  high-key 
red  that  fairly  sings  ...  in 
wonderful  harmony  with  the 
blues,  the  crimsons,  the 
hunter  greens  of  new  Fall 
fashions.  Rhythm-in-Red 
has  just  the  right  note  of 
blue  to  give  it  a  deep,  excit- 
ing brilliance!  And,  because 
it's  a  Cashmere  Bouquet 
Lipstick,  Rhythm-in-Red 
slays  crimson-bright  on  your 
lips,  stays  off  everyone  else! 


7  Cover-Girl  Colors 


49^ 


plus  tax 


10 


Conover 
girls  pick 
Cashmere 
Bouquet 

"Have  a  lipstick  wardrobe:  a  crim- 
son-red (Rhythm-in-Red),  a  true-red 
(Lookout  Red)  and  a  golden-red 
(Tropic  Sun).  All  three  cost  less  than 
$2  when,  like  our  Conover  girls,  you 
choose  Cashmere  Bouquet." 

Director  Conover  School,  New  York,  N.Y. 

cashmere 
bouquet 

Indelible -Type  Lipstick 

Super-Creamed  to  Keep  Your  Lips  Like  Velvet 


Ask 


New  Face 


your  questions — 


Everybody's  always  talking  about  "new 

faces."    Well,    how    about   Liam    Sullivan, 

who's  been  appearing  on  many  of  the  TV 

drama  shows?  Can  you  tell  us  about  him? 

E.  M.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Liam  Sullivan,  who  has  appeared  on 
most  of  the  top  TV  dramatic  shows — nota- 
bly as  Romeo  on  Kraft  Theater  and  the 
coachman  on  Life  With  Father — has 
brought  a  record  flood  of  mail  to  this  de- 
partment. .  .  .  Liam  first  opened  his  gray 
eyes  in  Jacksonville,  Illinois,  on  May  18, 
1927.  The  only  member  of  his  family  to 
pursue  an  acting  career,  Liam  spent  a 
great  deal  of  his  childhood  among  carnival 
people — his  father  owns  and  operates  the 
only  Ferris-wheel  factory  in  the  world.  But 
Liam  originally  set  his  sights  on  a  career 
in  economics.  He  attended  Jacksonville 
High,  Culver  Military  Academy  and  Har- 
vard, where  he  won  an  honor  degree  and 
first  became  interested  in  acting.  After  a 
year  as  a  cost  accountant  for  a  steel  firm, 
Liam  took  off  for  the  Hedgerow  Theater  in 
Moylan,  Pennsylvania,  served  as  lighting 
technician,  carpenter,  box-office  manager. 
Finally,  since  six-footer  Sullivan  was  the 
only  member  of  the  company  who  fit  the 
costume  on  hand  for  Feste  in  "Twelfth 
Night,"  he  played  his  first  part,  followed 
it  with  a  series  of  Shaw  and  Chekhov  roles, 
then  a  summer  stock  stint  in  Saratoga,  New 
York.  .  .  .  Next,  he  toured  with  Margaret 
Webster's  Shakespeare  Company,  did  some 
television  acting,  and  then  appeared  on 
Broadway  with  Katharine  Cornell  in  "The 
Constant  Wife,"  with  Joseph  Schildkraut 
in  "Love's  Labour's  Lost,"  and  with  Luther 
Adler  in  "The  Merchant  of  Venice."  . 
Liam's  TV  appearances  include  Kraft, 
Philco,  Circle,  Hallmark,  and  Lux  Thea 
ters,  as  well  as  Cavalcade  Of  America, 
Studio  57,  My  Little  Margie,  The  Million 
aire  and  Mr.  District  Attorney.  .  .  .  Now 
settled  in  California  "for  good,"  Liam  has 
shipped  his  collection  of  some  5,000  pop 
and  classical  records  West  and  is  design- 
ing and  constructing  built-in  furniture  for 
his  modern  Hollywood  apartment.  In  his 
spare  time,  he  rides,  fences  and  sails.  He's 
definitely  "eligible." 

Stella's  Son-ln-Law 

/  would  like  to  know  something  about 
Bert  Cowlan,  who  plays  Dick  Grosvenor 
in  Stella  Dallas  on  NBC. 

L.  G.  L.,  Bethel,  0. 

With  sixteen  years  of  top  radio  roles 
behind  him,  Bert  Cowlan  still  laughs  at 
the  back-handed  way  he  turned  actor.  Bert 
was  a  student  at  New  York  City's  Stuyve- 
sant  High  School  and  the  bane  of  his  ex- 


information  bootli 


and  ivell  try  to  find  the  answers 


istence  was  the  script-writing  chores  one 
of  his  teachers  gave  the  pupils.  To  "get 
out  of  them,"  Bert  told  his  teacher  he'd 
like  to  act.  .  .  .  The  scripts  had  been  for 
a  radio  stock  company  his  teacher  con- 
ducted for  the  Board  of  Education's  Sta- 
tion WNYE,  and  Bert  got  his  wish  to  act 
with  the  same  group.  Then,  as  a  member 
of  the  All-City  High  School  Radio  Work- 
shop, Bert,  at  sixteen,  became  producer- 
director  of  four  shows.  .  .  .  He  also  acted 
and  announced,  lectured  to  teacher-in- 
training  groups,  and  was  an  assistant  in- 
structor in  radio  while  he  studied  at  New 
York  University.  ...  In  1945,  Bert  joined 
the  Navy  and  ran  the  New  York  office  of  the 
Armed  Forces  Radio  Service.  He  was  also 
the  only  enlisted  man  to  be  an  accredited 
correspondent  with  the  UN.  .  .  .  His  first 
network  radio  show  was  Wilderness  Road 
and  it  was  followed  by  such  roles  as  Ted 
White  in  The  Guiding  Light,  announcer 
on  Tallulah  Bankhead's  program,  where 
he  "sat  back  and  was  entertained  by  the 
greatest  talents  in  the  business."  He  played 
Michael  Victor  opposite  Marlene  Dietrich 
in  Time  For  Love  and,  looking  back  on 
this  stint  with  the  world's  most  glamorous 
grandmother,  can  only  say,  "What  a  year!" 
Currently,  in  addition  to  his  part  as  Dick 
Grosvenor  in  Stella  Dallas,  Bert  guests  on 
such  shows  as  The  Eternal  Light  and  does 
slide  films  and  documentary  narrations. 
.  .  .  Married  seven  years  to  a  lovely  girl, 
Trudi,  from  Vienna,  Bert  has  a  five-month- 
old  daughter,  Margarite  Lesley.  The  Cow- 
lans  live  in  Forest  Hills,  a  New  York  sub- 
urb, and  Bert  relaxes  by  sailing  and  "fool- 
ing around"  with  cars,  preferably  sports 
models. 


■'h&«;^»ss^"KN\^^s^ 


liiam  Sullivan 


Murial  Williams 


Footlight  Femme 

I'd  like  to  know  something  about  Murial 

Williams,  who  plays  Lydia  Harrick  in  The 

Brighter  Day,  on  CBS  Radio  and  CBS-TV. 

J.  B.,  Columbus,  Ga. 

Blonde  Murial  Williams  comes  to  the 
airwaves  after  an  impressive  stage  career 
in  thirty-five  Broadway  plays.  She  also 
holds  the  record  for  the  number  of  roles 
ever  played  by  one  actress  at  the  famed 
Cape  Playhouse  at  Dennis,  Massachusetts. 
.  .  .  But  Brighter  Day  is  not  her  first  in- 
vasion of  radio  and  TV.  Murial  worked  in 
Boston  radio  with  Ted  Steele,  was  femcee 
on  a  Newark,  New  Jersey,  TV  review,  has 
appeared  on  such  programs  as  Studio  One 
and  Philco  Theater,  announced  the  Bishop 
Sheen  program,  and  starred  in  the  TV  film 
"Winter  Holiday"  for  the  Swiss  National 
Tourist  Office.  .  .  .  Murial's  New  England 
childhood  was  typical,  except  for  the  em- 
phasis on  ballet  and  music  lessons.  She 
decided  on  a  stage  career  after  attending 
a  Virginia  finishing  school.  Then  she  en- 
rolled at  Boston's  Leland  Powers  Dramatic 
School.  .  .  .  Murial  met  her  husband, 
Francis  Hart,  while  at  the  Cape  Playhouse 
and,  returning  to  Boston,  the  Harts  organ- 
ized and  operated  a  model  and  production 
agency.  They  also  ran  a  charm  school, 
wrote,  organized,  directed  and  produced 
fashion  and  dramatic  shows  for  stage,  radio 
and  TV.  .  .  .  When  her  husband  died  in 
1950,  Murial  resumed  her  acting  career, 
but  still  remains  a  vice-president  of  Hart 
Agency.  She  lives  in  a  Greenwich  Village 
apartment,  guarded  by  a  huge  French 
poodle.  Her  chief  non-career  interest  is 
the  Foster  Parents  Plan  for  War  Children. 


It's  A  Bird  .  .  . 

Would  you  give  me  some  information 
about  George  Reeves,  who  plays  Superman 
on  TV?  J.  H.,  No.  Bennington,  Vt. 

Ever  since  George  Reeves  has  been 
playing  Superman  on  TV,  he  finds  that 
whenever  a  cat  is  caught  up  a  tree,  or  some 
other  calamity  has  befallen  neighborhood 
youngsters,  he  is  called  on  for  help.  .  .  . 
Six-feet-two,  195  pounds,  George  is  a  stu- 
dent of  the  art  of  judo,  starred  in  football 
and  won  the  light-heavyweight  boxing  title 
at  Pasadena  Junior  College.  Born  in  Ash- 
land, Kentucky,  he  cut  his  acting  teeth  on 
Shaw  and  Shakespeare  at  the  famed  Pasa- 
dena Community  Playhouse  at  17.  His  first 
film  assignment  was  in  "Gone  With  the 
Wind"  and  it  led  to  roles  opposite  Rita 
Hayworth,  Joan  Caulfield,  Claudette  Col- 
bert, Merle  Oberon  and  Ann  Sheridan.  He 
also  played  Hopalong  Cassidy's  sidekick. 
But  his  longest  contract  was  with  the  Army. 
He  was  a  member  of  the  star-studded 
"Winged  Victory"  troupe,  and  was  later 
featured  on  Broadway  in  "Yellow  Jack." 
After  his  discharge,  he  played  in  many  of 
the  world  capitals,  then  returned  to  New 
York  for  a  variety  of  roles  in  daytime 
serials  and  many  of  the  leading  TV  dramas. 
.  .  .  His  next  stop  was  Hollywood  again,  to 
"kill"  Marlene  Dietrich  in  "Rancho  No- 
torious," then  to  appear  in  "From  Here  to 
Eternity."  ...  On  the  personal  side,  George 
shares  his  bachelor's  quarters  with  Sam, 
a  frisky  terrier.  He  has  a  keen  interest  in 
languages,  particularly  Spanish,  enjoys 
singing  to  his  own  guitar  accompaniment. 
{Continued  on  page  18) 


Bert  Cowlan 


11 


Charming  Louise  Morgan,  Bostons 
first  lady  of  TV  and  radio,  has  a 
ivonderful  time  delighting  others 


Smile  Awhile 


f 


Mayor  John  B.  Hynes  and  connedian  Bob  Hope  were 
among  those  feting  Louise  for  her  seventh  year  on  TV. 


Interviews  with  Louise  are  informal,  relaxing  and  fun 
— or,   OS  Julius   La    Rosa    puts   it,    "the   living   end." 


LOUISE  MORGAN — Boston's  first  lady  of  TV  and  leading 
lady  of  radio — got  into  television  via  radio,  and  into 
radio  via  a  joke.  ...  At  lunch  one  bright  day  in  1942,  with 
a  friend  who  worked  for  Station  WNAC,  Louise  was 
asked  what  she  was  doing  in  town.  She  laughed,  then 
quipped,  "I'm  looking  for  a  job  at  WNAC."  ...  A  few 
hours  later,  still  laughing,  Louise  was  at  work  as  a 
producer.  She  handled  this  and  subsequent  chores  before 
and  behind  the  mike  so  competently  that  The  Louise 
Morgan  Show,  heard  weekdays  on  WNAC  Radio  at  9:40 
A.M.,  resulted.  And,  with  this  feather  in  her  cap,  Louise 
found  a  mate  for  it  as  star  of  Dear  Homemaker,  seen  daily 
on  WNAC-TV  at  1  P.M.  This  was  the  first  live  show  on 
WNAC-TV,  the  first  daytime  show  in  Boston  TV  and  the 
first  TV  program  designed  for  Boston  homemakers  and — 
with  its  new  "Crusader  Rabbit"  cartoon  feature — Bean 
Town  youngsters  as  well.  .  .  .  Along  the  route,  Louise  be- 
came Director  of  Special  Events  for  the  Yankee  Network, 
still  holds  the  post  of  Director  of  Women's  Programs 
for  WNAC  Radio— and  became  famous  for  losing  250 
WACS  in  the  subway  one  afternoon.   The  WACS,  lost  as 


Louise  was  shepherding  them  to  a  broadcast,  turned  up 
just  in  time  to  go  on  the  air.  .  .  .  Going  still  further  back 
in  Louise's  history,  she  was  born  in  Salem,  gave  a  good 
account  of  herself  at  Lasell  Junior  College  in  Auburndale 
and  the  Leland  Powers  School  of  the  Theater  and  Radio  in 
Boston.  Then,  however,  she  had  educating,  not  emoting, 
on  her  mind  and  became  a  student's  dream  of  a  teacher 
in  Virginia,  Washington,  D.  C,  then  at  her  alma  mater, 
Leland  Powers.  .  .  .  Still  amazed  at  the  result  of  her  joke, 
Louise  says,  "It's  a  new  thrill  every  time  to  meet  these 
friends  who  invite  me  into  their  living  rooms  so  often." 
Louise's  own  living  room  in  her  Back  Bay  home  is  done 
in  green,  in  a  mixture  of  modern  and  oriental  styles.  To 
relax,  Louise  does  oil  paintings  of  bridges,  listens  to 
records,  plays  golf  and  rides.  .  .  .  Celebrating  Louise's 
seventh  year  on  Channel  7,  the  Louise  Morgan  Trophy 
Race  at  Bay  State  Raceway  was  named  for  her.  And  the 
entire  90-piece  Boston  Pops  Orchestra  serenaded  her 
with  her  theme  song,  "I  Love  Louisa,"  then  played 
"Louise"  for  an  encore.  Joining  in  on  the  chorus  were 
countless  WNAC  Radio  and  WNAC-TV  friends. 


12 


For  the  Easiest  Permanent 
of  Your  Life  . . . 


SET  IT  / 


Set  yoiir  pin-curls  just  as  you  always  do. 
No  need  for  anyone  to  help. 


WET  IT/ 


Apply  CASUAL  lotion  just  once. 
15  minutes  later,  rinse  with  clear  water. 


r*^ 


FORGET  IT.' 


That's  aU  there  is  to  it!  CASUAL  is 

self-neutralizing.  There's  no  resetting. 

Your  work  is  finished! 


Naturally  lovely,  carefree  curls 

that  last  for  weeks . . . 

Casual  is  the  word  for  it . . .  soft,  carefree  waves 

and  curls  — never  tight  or  kinky— beautifully  manageable, 

perfect  for  the  new  flattering  hair  styles  that  highlight  the  softer, 

natural  look.  Tonight— give  yourself  the  loveliest  wave 

of  your  life — a  Casual  pin-curl  permanent ! 

takes  just  15  minutes  more  than  setting  your  hair! 

$1.50   PLUS   TAX 


13 


Pets  and  personalities  provide 
the  cue  for  fun  on  Andy  Devine's 
delightful  children's  show 


Squeekie  the  Mouse,  in  top  hot  and  tails,  is  one 
of  the  "feature  perfornners"  on  Andy's  cute  show. 


"Guests"  on  Andy's  show  are  live,  such  as  the  donkey,  and  in- 
animate, such  as  Froggy  the  Gremlin,  and  Andy  loves  'em  all. 


ANDY'S  GANG 


]-i 


Nino  Marcel,  who  ploys  the  elephant  boy  Gunga 
Ram,  stops  by  for  a  chat  with  Froggy  ond  Andy. 


Andy's  Gang  is  sponsored  liy  the  Brown  Shoe  Co. 
See  local  pai»(M-.s  for  time  ;ui(l  Kl.itlnn  !ri  v(,ii>-  uvea. 


BACK  in  the  twilight  days  of  silent  movies,  young  Andy  Devine 
made  his  debut  as  a  romantic  star.    Then  came  talking 
movies,  which  seemed  to  sound  the  death-knell  for  him.   After 
all,  the  sweet  nothings  to  be  whispered  in  a  young  lady's  ear 
could  hardly  sound  romantic  coming  from  gravel-voiced  Andy! 
Fortunately,  however,  all  was  not  lost,  and  Andy  was  then 
cast  in  comedy  roles.   Today,  not  even  Andy  knows  how  many 
movies  he's  made — "several  hundred,"  he  estimates.  During  this 
time,  Andy  also  carved  his  niche  in  radio,  appearing  with  all 
the  "greats"  such  as  Bing  Crosby,  Jack  Benny,  Bob  Hope,  Fred 
Allen.  And,  since  1951,  television  has  been  Andy's  cup  of  tea  as 
he  has  co-starred  in  the  Wild  Bill  Hickok  series  and,  since  last 
August,  headed  his  own  popular  show,  Andy's  Gang.  .  .  .  Each 
week,  Andy  steps  before  the  TV  cameras  to  present  a  delightful 
array  of  pets,  personalities  and  stories,  interspersed  with  songs 
and  comedy,  for  children  of  all  ages.  Andy  cavorts  with  members 
of  his  Buster  Brown  Gang,  such  as  Squeekie  the  Mouse,  Midnight 
the  Cat,  and  Froggy  the  Gremlin;  chats  with  characters  such 
as  Uncle  Fishface,  Mrs.  Peek  N.  Pry  and  Monsieur  Bon  Bon; 
then  narrates  an  adventure  film  which  may  feature  Gunga  Ram  in 
India  or  an  exciting  episode  in  the  South  Sea  Islands.  .  .  .  Playing 
the  part  of  Gunga  Ram  is  15-year-old  Nino  Marcel,  who  has 
been  in  show  business  since  he  was  a  tot.  Born  in  Chicago,  Nino 
now  lives  in  California  and  attends  Montebello  High  School. 
One  of  the  most  frequent  questions  his  fans  ask  him  is,  "Do  you 
really  wrestle  with  tigers?"   "Yes,"  replies  Nino — and  he  has 
scratches  to  prove  it.  .  .  .  Other  shining  lights  on  Andy's  Gang 
include  June  Foray,  who  provides  many  of  the  sounds  and  voices 
for  Andy's  stories;  comical  Billy  Gilbert,  who  plays  himself; 
Ken  Christy,  the  voice  of  Froggy;  and  midget  Jerry  Mar  en, 
who  is  Buster  Brown.  .  .  .  All  in  all,  Andy's  Gang  is  a 
sparkling  combination  of  talent,   tunes  and  tales  tied  into   one 
big,   happy   package   and   sent   to   viewers   everywhere, 
courtesy  of  the  beloved  and  masterful  Andy  Devine. 


I 


mm 


^ 


Nylon  and  living  elastic/  You'll  love  the  feel  of  it 
. .  .  the  fit  of  it . . .  the  way  it  adjusts  to  your  every 
movement.  And  its  shape  is  forever  ...  no  matter 
how  often  laundered.  Now  in  black  guaranteed  not 
to  run  ...  or  in  wonderfully  washable  white.'  All 
sizes  and  in-between  sizes:  32A  to  40C,  $3.95. 
D-Cup  (white  only),  34.95.  In  the  blue  package 
at  your  favorite  store.  See  the  High  Style  Bra,  too, 
in  white  "party  pretty"  cotton,  $2.95. 


by  International  Latex  Corporation  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  Dover  Del 
In  Canada:  Ploytex  Ltd.  .  .  PLAYTEX  PARK  .  .  Arnprlor,  Ont. 

•U.S.  Pat.  No.  2713683  Canadian  and  Foreign  Pats.  Pending 


'^ 


There's  a  Playtex  Girdle  too 
for  every  figure. 


Wl 


J|^| 


Light-Weight  for  wonderful  control  .  $4.95 
High  Style  for  more  control  .  .  .  .  .  $5.95 
Magic-Controller  for  most  control    .   $7.95 


15 


WHAT'S   NEW    FROM    COAST   TO    COAST 

(Continued  from  page  5) 


for  graduate  study  in  television- 
radio  journalism  at  the  University 
of  Minnesota's  School  of  Journalism. 
Sevareid,  an  alumnus  of  Minnesota, 
received  the  Alfred  I.  du  Pont 
Award  for  distinguished  news  com- 
mentary a  few  months  ago. 

Philip  Loeb,  the  well-known  actor, 
passed  away  some  weeks  ago  in  New 
York,  at  the  age  of  sixty-one.  Loeb, 
in  addition  to  his  many  stage  and 
radio  appearances,  won  wide  ac- 
claim for  his  portrayal  of  Jake 
"Papa"  Goldberg,  in  the  video  ver- 
sion of  The  Goldbergs. 

Johnny  Desmond  has  landed  the 
leading  role  in  the  forthcoming 
Broadway  musical  comedy,  "The 
Amazing  Adele,"  and  also  looks  set, 
finally,  for  the  movie  on  the  life  of 
the  late  Russ  Columbo,  "Prisoner  of 
Love." 

Liberace,  who  found  gold  in  "them 
thar"  piano  keys,  is  starting  a  na- 
tion-wide group  of  music  schools. 
He  says  he  hopes  to  offer,  through 
specially  trained  instructors,  the 
best  of  regular  piano  teaching, 
blended  with  a  bit  of  showmanship 
so  that  students  can  learn  to  enter- 
tain others  if  they  wish.  Well,  he 
should  be  just  the  lad  who  knows 
the  secret  formula. 

Songstress  Lu  Ann  Simms,  from 
Arthur  Godfrey's  shows,  and  her 
husband,  Loring  Buzzell,  have  wel- 
comed their  first  baby,  a  girl  whom 
they've  named  Cynthia  Lee.  She 
tipped  the  scales  at  seven  pounds, 
seven  ounces.   No  date  has  been  set. 


at  this  writing,  for  Lu  Ann's  return 
to  the  Godfrey  gang. 

Margot  Fonteyn,  prima  ballerina 
of  the  Sadler's  Wells  Ballet  com- 
pany, has  been  tabbed  by  NBC-TV 
for  their  big  production  of  "The 
Sleeping  Beauty,"  to  be  presented 
in  December. 

Howdy  Doody  graduates  are  do- 
ing all  right  for  themselves  these 
days.  Judy  Tyler,  who  was  the  Indian 
Princess  on  the  show  for  so  long, 
has  been  given  one  of  the  leads  in 
the  new  Rodgers  and  Hammerstein 
Broadway  musical  comedy,  "Pipe 
Dream."  And  Bob  Keeshan,  who 
played  the  clown,  Clarabell,  on 
Howdy  from  1947  to  1952,  is  now 
the  star  of  his  own  kiddie  series  on 
CBS-TV,   Captain  Kangaroo. 

Sandy  Stewart,  the  eighteen-year- 
old  vocalist  on  The  Galen  Drake 
Show,  will  become  a  bride  next 
month  in  Philadelphia,  her  home 
town.  Sandy  is  marrying  Saul  Kane, 
a  construction  engineer,  but  plans 
to  continue  with  her  very  promising 
singing  career.  The  wedding  is  set 
for  December  11. 

Rin  Tin  Tin  is  going  international. 
Radio  Televisione  Italiana  and  Ra- 
dio Diffusion  Francaise  have  each 
purchased  telefilms  from  the  popu- 
lar adventure  series,  to  be  seen  in 
Italy  and  France,  respectively.  The 
actors'  voices  will  be  dubbed  in, 
with  different  sound  tracks,  in 
Italian  and  French,  but  this  won't  be 
necessary  for  Rin  Tin  Tin,  who  can 
bark  in  three  languages,  of  course. 


"Friday"  joins  the  mounted?  Actually,  Jack  Webb   planed   into   Fort  Worth, 
Texas,  by  United  Air  Lines— then  was  made  a  member  of  the  Cow  Town  Posse. 


Emcee    Hal    March,   still    "batching 
it,"  may  pop  The  $64,000  Question. 


Mulling  The  Mail: 

To  all  those  who  wrote  asking 
about  the  cast  on  Search  For  To- 
morrow: Mary  Stuart,  who  plays 
Joanne  on  the  program,  was  only  off 
the  show  during  the  time  she  was 
welcoming  a  new  baby  in  real  life. 
And,  when  she  returned,  there  was 
a  cast  change.  Terry  O'Sullivan,  who 
used  to  play  Arthur  Tate,  left  to  join 
Valiant  Lady,  in  a  featured  role. 
Karl  Weber  took  over  the  part 
of  Arthur.  Hope  this  straightens 
everyone  out.  .  .  .  Farley  Granger 
Fans,  St.  Louis,  Mo.:  Farley  doesn't 
appear  on  any  regular  television 
show,  but  he  will  be  the  star  on  the 
U.  S.  Steel  Hour  production  of  "In- 
cident in  an  Alley,"  on  Wednesday 
night,  November  23.  .  .  .  Mrs.  J.  C, 
Cleveland,  O.:  Orson  Welles  and 
CBS  didn't  get  together  at  the  last 
minute  on  Welles'  proposed  con- 
tract, so  it  looks  like  he  won't  be 
seen  this  season  on  American  TV. 
He  is  still  in  Europe.  .  .  .  Miss  H.  V., 
Louisville,  Ky.:  Joan  Caulfield  gave 
up  her  co-starring  role  on  My  Fa- 
vorite Husband  and  was  replaced  by 
Vanessa  Brown.  Joan  and  Barry  Nel- 
son, her  leading  man,  didn't  see  eye 
to  eye  and  Joan  also  wanted  to  be 
free  to  do  a  movie  this  fall.  .  .  .  Miss 
K.  R.,  New  Haven,  Conn.:  Pat  Boone, 
the  singer  you  heard  on  Arthur 
Godfrey's  show,  is  twenty-one  years 
old,  and  a  divinity  student  at  Den- 
ton, Texas.  He  became  known 
through  his  sudden  record  hit, 
"Ain't  That  a  Shame!"  .  .  .  Mrs. 
S.T.J.,  Savannah,  Ga.:  Sammy  Davis, 
Jr.  is  set  to  star  in  the  New  York 
stage  production  of  "Mr.  Wonder- 
ful," which  is  being  specially  writ- 
ten for  him.  "The  Bill  Robinson 
Story"  you  refer  to  is  the  life  story 
{Continued  on  page  24) 


16 


PALMOLIVE  SOAP  CAN  GIVE  YOU  A 

GETS  HIDDEN   DIRT  THAT  ORDINARY  CLEANSING  METHODS  MISS  ! 


Dirt  left  on  face  after  ordinary  cleansing! 

I,  Rub  your  face  hard  ivilh  a  cotton  pad  after  ordinary 
casual  cleansing  with  any  soap  or  cold  cream.  You  II 
see  that  you  didn't  remove  deep-down  dirt  and 
make-up.  ''^Ordinary-clean^  is  just  superficially  clean! 


Beautifully  clean  after  60-5econd  Palmolive  facial! 

2»   Rub  your  face  the  same  way  after  60-second  massage 
ivith  Palmolive.  Pad  is  still  snowy-white!  ''^Palmolive- 
clean"  is  deep-down  clean.  Your  skin  is  free  of  clinging 
dirt  that  casual  cleansing  misses. 


CAN  WORK  SO  THOROUGHLY  YET 

SO  GENTLY!  PALMOLIVE  BEAUTY  CARE 

CLEANS  CLEANER,  CLEANS  DEEPER, 

WITHOUT  IRRITATION! 


Doctors  have  proved  that  Palmolive  beauty  care  can 
give  you  a  cleaner,  fresher  complexion  the  very  first  time 
you  use  it!  That's  because  Palmolive  care  gets  your 
skin  deep-down  clean  by  removing  the  hidden, 
clinging  dirt  that  casual  methods  miss. 

Here's  the  easy  method:  Just  massage  your  face  with 
Palmolive's  rich,  gentle  lather  for  60  seconds,  morning  and 
night.  Rinse  and  pat  dry.  It's  that  simple!  But  remember  .  .  . 
only  a  soap  th^t  is  truly  mild  can  cleanse  thoroughly  without 
leaving  your  face  feeling  drawn  and  uncomfortable.  That's  why 
Palmolive's  mildness  is  so  important  to  you.  Try  mild  Palmolive 
Soap  today  for  new  complexion  beauty! 

DOCTORS  PROVE  PALMOLIVE'S  BEAUTY  RESULTS! 


17 


^ew^  Patterns 
for  You 


4554 — Half  Sizers:  Sew  this  pretty  step- 
in  style,  designed  to  whittle  the  inches 
away.  Half  Sizes  14V2-24V2-  Size  16%  takes 
4%  yards  35-inch  fabric.   35^' 

4898 — The  more  you  wear  this  two-piecer 
the  more  you'll  love  it.  Accent  is  on  the 
nipped-in  waist.  Misses'  Sizes  10-20.  Size 
16  takes  31/4  yards  45-inch  fabric;  1/4  yard 
35-inch  contrast.  35^' 

4804 — Wear  this  versatile  cover-up  as  a 
smart  sports  jerkin  or  a  cotton  cover-up 
for  chore-time.  "Pansy"  pocket — cute  trim. 
Misses'  Sizes  12-20.  Size  16  takes  V/s  yards 
35-in;    i/4    yard   contrast.   Transfer.   35^' 


4554 

SIZES 
141/2— 24'/2 


'\ 


Send  thirty-five  cents  (in  coins)  for 
each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror, 
Pattern  Department,  P.O.  Box  137, 
Old  Chelsea  Station,  New  York  11, 
New  York.  Add  five  cents  for  each 
pattern  for   (irst-class  mailing. 


Information  Booth 

{Continued  from  page   11) 


Daddy's  Girl 

I  would  like  some  information  on 
Sherry  Jackson,  who  plays  daughter 
Terry  in  The  Danny  Thomas  Show  on 
ABC-TV.  Where  can  I  write  for  a  picture 
of  her?  C.K.,  Sioux  City,  Iowa 

Sherry  Jackson,  her  two  brothers  and 
her  parents  arrived  in  Hollywood  in  1943, 
where  her  father  went  to  work  as  a  car- 
penter, and  her  mother  went  to  work  try- 
ing to  get  her  children  into  the  movies. 
Mrs.  Jackson  had  been  an  actress  in  Kan- 
sas City  and  had  been  coaching  Sharon — 
or  Sherry — and  her  brothers  since  they 
could  talk.  .  .  .  Eventually,  all  three 
emoted  before  the  movie  cameras,  but 
Sherry  made  her  first  impression  on  the 
driver  of  a  sightseeing  bus,  an  ex-actor 
who  noticed  her  and  her  mother  at  a  drive- 
in.  He  gave  Mrs.  Jackson  an  agent's  ad- 
dress and  Sherry  was  given  a  screen 
test.  The  test  flopped,  thanks  to  a  case  of 
chicken  pox.  But,  after  her  recovery. 
Sherry  won  a  role  in  "You're  My  Every- 
thing." ...  At  13,  Sherry  has  more  than 
thirty  pictures  to  her  credit,  including 
"The  Breaking  Point,"  "The  Great 
Caruso,"  "Trouble  Along  the  Way,"  and 
"Miracle  of  Fatima."  She's  also  a  tele- 
vision veteran  and,  aside  from  her  con- 
tinuing role  as  Danny  Thomas'  daughter, 
she  has  appeared  on  such  shows  as  Fire- 
side Theater,  Private  Secretary,  Lux  Video 
Theater,  Toast  Of  The  Town,  and  the 
Gene  Autry,  Roy  Rogers  and  Range  Rider 
shows.  .  .  .  Aside  from  her  regular  school- 
ing, Sherry  takes  music,  singing  and 
dancing  lessons.  Her  dancing  teacher 
thinks  she  has  the  makings  of  a  prima  bal- 
lerina. Sherry  likes  the  idea,  but  keeps  up 
with  her  tap  routines  as  well.  .  .  .  You 
can  write  to  Sherry  Jackson,  c/o  The 
Danny  Thomas  Show,  ABC-TV,  Television 
Center,  Hollywood,  Calif. 

Calling  All  Fans 

The  following  clubs  invite  new  mem- 
bers. If  you  are  interested  in  joining, 
write  to  the  address  below — and  not  to 
TV  Radio  Mirror. 

Patti  Page  Fan  Club,  c/o  Barbara  L. 
Weinberg,    42    Fabyan    St.,     Dorchester, 

Mass. 

Liberace  Candelabras,  c/o  Phyllis  A. 
De  Santo,  2124  W.  Cambria  St.,  Philadel- 
phia 32,  Pa. 

Charlie  Applewhite  Fan  Club,  c/o  Sue 
Maloney,  109  Moschel  St.,  East  Peoria,  111. 


FOR  YOUR  INFORMATION— If  there's 
something  you  want  to  know  about  radio 
and  television,  write  to  Information  Booth, 
TV  Radio  Mirror,  20S  East  42nd  St.,  New 
York  17,  N.  Y.  We'll  answer,  if  we  can, 
provided  your  question  is  of  general  inter- 
est. Answers  will  appear  in  this  column — 
but  be  sure  to  attach  this  box  to  your 
letter,  and  specify  whether  your  question 
concerns  radio  or  TV. 


4 


I 


I,-,^.^--  ^^-^-J 


New  lanolin  shampoo 
adds  rich  sparkle 
...can't  dry  hair! 

Get  ready  for  the  softest,  silkiest,  most  sparkly  hair  of  your 
life!  For  the  instant  this  new  double-rich  lanohn  shampoo 
goes  into  action,  it  starts  enriching  your  hair  with  a 
beauty  you  have  never  witnessed  before! 


* 


What  manageability!  What  a  joy  to  set!  Instead  of  after-shampoo 
dryness,  you  discover  a  new  dream-like  softness  that  only  this 
"twice-as-rich"  lanolin  shampoo  can  bring!  Your  waves  ripple 
into  place  .  .  .  luscious  deep  waves  .  .  .  softer,  lovelier  than  you 
ever  hoped  they'd  be! 


You'll  enjoy  the  great  clouds  of 
fleecy  lather  you  get  with  this  new 
double-rich  lanolin  shampoo.  Won- 
derful feeling,  luxurious  lather  that 
feels  twice  as  rich,  and  is  twice  as 
rich.  Busy  lather  that  actually 
polishes  your  hair  —  brilliantly.  A 
sensational  new  Helene  Curtis 


beauty  discovery! 


When  your  hair  sparkles,  you  do! 
Make  your  hair  your  loveliest  feature 
.  .  .  soft  as  summer  clouds  and  shim- 
mering like  satin  in  moonlight — with 
this  new  shampoo  miracle — Helene 
Curtis  Lanolin  Lotion  Shampoo. 
Sounds  wonderful?  It  is!  Try  it  and 
you'll  agree.  29p,  59(f  and  $1, 
everywhere! 


^"»^ 


19 


Personable  Herb  Sheldon  has  himself  a 
wonderful  time  as  he  delights  youngsters  and 
grownups  on  his  WRCA-TV  shows,  because  he's 


Doing  What 


Herb's  popular  sidekicks,  Egbert  and  Ummly,  always  have  lots  to 
talk  obout,  but  Herb  keeps  mum  as  to  how  he  handles  their  voices. 
Below,  being  deluged  with  mail  has  become  commonplace  for  h^e^b, 
but   he   always   takes    it   seriously — and    a    bit   wearily,    at   times. 


20 


THE  familiar  song,  "All  day  long  I 
dream  of  you,  morning,  noon  and 
night-time,  too,"  is  not  the  theme  song  of 
popular  Herb  Sheldon's  three  WRCA-TV 
shows  in  New  York — but  it  should  be, 
for  that's  just  the  way  Herb  feels  about 
his  audience.  And  the  feeling  is  mutual. 

Each  weekday  morning  at  9,  Herb  pre- 
sents something  for  the  whole  family  on 
The  Herb  Sheldon  Show  With  Josephine 
McCarthy.  For  the  youngsters,  there  are 
cartoons,  music  and  chats  with  Egbert 
the  bookworm  and  Ummly  the  steam 
shovel.  Treats  for  the  grownups  include 
Josie  McCarthy's  cooking  hints  and  in- 
terviews with  outstanding  guests. 

On  Saturdays,  Herb  gears  his  7-to-9 
A.M.  show  for  youngtimers  and,  in  addi- 
tion to  entertaining  them,  advises  them 
on  good  living  habits. 

The  most  unusual  of  Herb's  three 
shows  is  his  daily  1  P.M.  offering.  One 
Is  For  Sheldon.  Telecast  from  a  rooftop 
in  Manhattan,  the  program  features 
special  events,  such  as  parades,  antique 
auto  displays,  plus  other  oddities  which 
cannot  be  shown  from  a  regular  studio. 
And,  as  with  the  mailman,  no  kind  of 
inclement  weather  keeps  Herb  from  his 
appointed  rounds. 

Herb's  tremendous  popularity,  espe- 
cially with  children,  has  been  "a  puzzle- 
ment" to  his  many  would-be  imitators. 
But  to  Herb  the  answer  is  simple — and 
natural.  "Children  don't  like  to  be 
kidded  too  much,"  says  the  man  who 
knows,  "and  most  of  them  resent  the 
'itchy-kitchy,  boysie-girlsie'  approach.  In 
order  to  make  children  believe  and  trust 
in  you,"  Herb  continues,  "you  must  be 
absolutely  sincere  with  them.  They  judge 
whether  or  not  they  like  you  just  by 
looking  at  you.  Not  that  you  have  to  be 
handsome  .  .  .  but  there's  a  certain  in- 
tuitiveness  about  them,  and  you  just  can't 
fool  them.  Next,  it's  your  personality 
that  wins  their  approval.  You  shouldn't 
try  to  force  them.  Instead,  get  them  in- 
terested so  they  will  want  to  do  it." 

Because  Herb's  formula  works  so  well 
with  other  people's  children,  many  folks 
wonder  if  it  holds  true  with  his  own 
children — Lynda,  15,  Amy,  9,  Randy,  7, 
and  Guy,  2.  Herb  greets  that  query  with 
his  familiar  twinkling  smile.  Although 
his  youngsters  take  Herb's  TV  fame 
pretty  much  for  granted  now — "Trouble 
is,  they're  used  to  me" — they  know 
who's  boss.  Herb  jokes  about  his  lovely 
wife,  Rosa — whom  he  calls  Toots — mak- 
ing the  children  obey  her.  "She  doesn't 
have  to  say,  'Wait  till  your  father  gets 
home,'  "  Herb  grins.  "She  just  points  to 
the  TV  set  and  says,  'Now  listen  to  what 
your  father  is  saying.'  " 

The  Sheldons  live  in  a  beautiful,  split- 
level  home  on  Long  Island,  where  they 
have  plenty  of  room  to  move  around. 
Herb  is  a  firm  believer  in  families  acting 


Comes  Naturally 


Herb  started  a  fad  for  what  he  colls 
"Ricky-Ticky"  when  he  introduced  the 
old-time   player   piano   on   his   shows. 


as  a  group.  An  example  of  this  occurred 
last  summer  when  Herb  bought  a  39-foot 
cabin  cruiser.  Now,  whenever  time  and 
weather  permit,  the  whole  Sheldon  clan 
can  be  found  "at  sea." 

Off-camera,  Herb  also  devotes  a  good 
deal  of  his  time  to  personal  appearances. 
These,  too,  he  finds  rewarding,  because 
everywhere  he  goes,  grownups  stop  to 
tell  him  how  much  they  and  their  chil- 
dren enjoy  his  shows.  "You  discover 
how  many  people  have  children  that  you 
never  knew  about  before,"  he  enthuses, 
"and  it's  wonderful." 

The  success  Herb  enjoys  today  is  a  far 
cry  from  his  teen-age  days  when  the 
Brooklyn-born  lad  wavered  between  a 
show-business  career  and  granting  his 
father's  wish  that  he  be  a  businessman. 
Finally,  in  the  late  Thirties,  Herb  settled 
on  show  business.  On  radio,  he  was  a 
disc  jockey,  announcer,  program  and 
production  manager,  director  and  pro- 
ducer. Then,  in  1948,  he  was  given  his 
own  show  at  NBC,  where  he  has  been 
ever  since. 

As  for  his  future,  Herb  has  only  one 
hope— that  WRCA-TV  doesn't  institute 
an  all-night  show.  Because,  if  they  do, 
they'll  undoubtedly  make  room  for  an- 
other Herb  Sheldon  show  —  probably 
around  4  A.M.  But,  knowing  Herb  and 
how  he  loves  to  entertain,  he  wouldn't 
refuse.  He  would  have  to  do  what  comes 
naturally  to  him — that  which  his  viewers 
of  all  ages  have  always  enjoyed,  and 
welcomed — any  time  of  day  or  night. 


Whether  at  home  or  "at  sea" — aboard  his  cabin  cruiser  Festival — 
hierb  is  definitely  a  family  man.  Above,  he  and  his  wife  "Toots" 
are  happily  surrounded  by  Lynda  and  Guy  and,  in  front.  Randy  and 
Amy.  Below,  the  family  prepares  for  a  cruise  in  Long  Island  Sound. 


fDaytinie  Diary 


All  programs   are  heard  Monday  through  Friday;    consult 
local  papers  for  time  and  station. 


BACKSTAGE  WIFE  The  mysterious, 
sinister  Madame  Moleska  almost  suc- 
ceeded in  completing  the  ruin  of  Mary 
and  Larry  Noble's  marriage,  already 
threatened  by  Larry's  attachment  to  ac- 
tress EUse  Shephard.  For,  as  Larry  came 
under  the  phony  fortune-teller's  influence, 
he  was  persuaded  to  doubt  his  wife  in 
such  a  serious  way  that  Mary  is  finding 
it  hard  to  reestablish  confidence  and  se- 
curity in  their  love.  Will  she  find  com- 
fort in  a  stranger?   CBS  Radio. 

THE  BRIGHTEU  DAY  Reverend 
Richard  Dennis  senses  the  deep  disturb- 
ance between  Lydia  Harrick  and  her 
brother-in-law  Donald,  but  will  he  realize, 
in  time  to  help  Lydia,  the  terrible  bond- 
age under  which  Donald  has  managed  to 
hold  her?  Can  he  free  her  for  happiness 
with  Max  Canfield — and  at  the  same  time 
free  Donald  from  his  own  perverse,  twisted 
motivation?  Or  will  he  be  too  late  to  win 
for  Lydia  and  Max  the  happiness  they 
both  deserve?  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio. 

FinST  LOVE  Ever  since  she  married 
Zach,  Laurie  has  known  that  the  key  to 
his  difficult,  overly-independent  personal- 
ity lies  in  the  past  when  he  was  deserted 
by  his  father.  What  happens  when  the 
long-silent  father  suddenly  reappears, 
charming  and  plausible,  just  as  Laurie 
learns  she  is  pregnant?  Can  he  in  any  way 
aflfect  the  threat  of  tragedy  which  the 
doctor  has  told  Zach  hangs  over  Laurie's 
head?  NBC-TV. 

THE     GIJMDiJVG     LiGHT     Dr.     Dick 
Grant's    return    to    Los    Angeles    signals 
many  changes — new  hope  in  Kathy's  heart 
despite  what  she  knows  about  Marie  Wal- 
lace; the  dawn  of  hope  for  Marie  although 
she  won't  admit  she  loves  Dick;   and  for 
T    Dick,    perhaps    the    only    thing    he    really 
V    cares  about  at  the  moment — the  new  start 
H    in  surgery.  Meanwhile,  the  Bauer  home  is 
torn    by    a    mother-in-law    problem.    Will 


young  Mike  settle  it  in  his  own  way? 
CBS-TV  and   CBS   Radio. 

LOVE  OF  LIFE  Vanessa  Raven  is  torn 
by  doubt  as  she  realizes  that  the  disturbed 
chUd,  Carol,  whom  she  now  really  wants 
to  adopt,  will  aggravate  every  family 
problem  that  now  faces  her — Paul's  new 
law  practice,  her  sister  Meg's  difficulties, 
her  own  position  as  Paul's  wife.  What  is 
behind  Hal  Craig's  emotion  over  the  locket 
Carol  took  and  then  gave  back  .  .  .  and 
how  will  it  affect  his  relationship  with 
Meg?   CBS-TV. 

MA  PERKINS  If  it  is  true  that  people 
reveal  their  iruiermost  selves  in  periods  of 
greatest  strain,  perhaps  Gladys  is  right  to 
doubt  the  value  of  her  marriage  to  Joe. 
For,  during  the  awful  days  of  their  baby's 
disappearance,  even  Ma  found  herself 
critical  of  Joe's  behavior.  Will  any  of  the 
family  ever  really  know  why  he  acted  as 
he  did?  What  effect  will  the  odd  combi- 
nation of  good  and  evil  that  is  Jimmy 
Snyder  have  on  Gladys'  future?    CBS  Radio. 

OXE  MAN'S  FAMILY  As  the  Barbour 
family  matures,  adding  unto  itself  chil- 
dren, in-laws  and  grandchildren,  it  be- 
comes apparent  that  there  is  no  stage  of 
family  life  at  which  it  is  possible  for  the 
elders  to  lean  back  and  say  with  satis- 
faction, "Now  the  problem  days  are  behind 
us  and  we  can  just  relax."  For  as  each 
generation  repeats  and  elaborates  on  the 
problems  of  the  last,  life  becomes  more 
coniplicated  for  the  Barbours.  NBC  Radio. 

OUR  GAL  SUNDAY  Lord  Henry  Brin- 
thrope's  family  has  never  thought  Siinday 
a  suitable  wife,  despite  their  many  years 
of  happiness.  Now  that  his  Aunt  Sarah 
Thornton  has  realized  his  attachment  to 
Leonora  Dawson,  the  girl  he  almost  mar- 
ried years  ago  in  England,  she  is  ready 
to  take  every  advantage  of  it  to  under- 
mine  Sunday's   position  as  Lady   Brinth- 


rope.  Can  Sunday  fight  Sarah's  vindictive- 
ness  and  Leonora's  ambition?  CBS  Radio. 

PEPPER     YOUNG'S     FAMILY     The 

pretty,  young  singer  who  becomes  so  at- 
tached to  Carter  "Trent  while  he  is  in  New 
York  is  half  aware  that  she  is  piling  up 
heartbreak  for  herself,  though  it  is  a  long 
time  before  she  learns  the  truth  about 
Carter's  flight  to  New  York  and  the  fam- 
ily he  left  behind.  Can  Carter  himself  for- 
get them  in  the  excitement  of  living  a  com- 
pletely new  life?  How  would  his  wife 
Peggy  face  that  if  she  had  to?  NBC  Radio. 

PERRY  MASON  Eve  Merriweather's 
neurotic  personality  was  well  judged  by 
Edward  Bailey  when  he  enlisted  her  to 
help  destroy  Sam  Merriweather  and  get 
control  of  the  Merriweather  holdings.  But 
after  Sid  Kenyon's  death.  Eve  is  no  longer 
so  easy  to  manage.  Has  Bailey  placed  too 
much  faith  in  a  weak  link  in  his  devilish 
chain — the  chain  to  which  Perry  Mason, 
trying  to  protect  Sam  and  Lois  Monahan, 
has  already  picked  up  so  many  clues? 
CBS    Radio. 

THE  RIGHT  TO  HAPPINESS  Caro- 
lyn finds  her  life  completely  changed  as 
she  tries  to  adjust  to  Miles'  death — and  to 
the  doubtful  benefit  of  Sherry  Wayne's 
money.  Will  young  Skip  resent  her  de- 
cision regarding  the  money?  Will  Carolyn 
herself  begin  to  doubt  the  wisdom  of  her 
renunciation?  Or  will  support  come  from 
a  most  unexpected  source — support  and 
the  possibility  of  a  new,  complete  life 
once  again?  NBC  Radio. 

THE  ROAD  OF  LIFE  The  terrible  force 
of  Sibyl  Overton  Fuller's  personality — 
and  the  power  of  her  father's  money — have 
kept  her  out  of  serious  trouble  so  far,  but 
everyone  associated  with  Sibyl  realizes 
that  she  has  long  been  on  the  verge  of 
complete  mental  breakdown.  Will  Randy 
(Continued  on  page  85) 


22 


'A 

^ 

i 

rjH 

H 

K^- 

■    j^^ 

B 

I 


The  wonderful  story  of  a  pianist 
who  brings  a  crescendo  of  romance  and 
joy  and  faith  into  a  number  of  empty 
lives . . .  including  his  own . . . 


Liberace  plays  everything  from  Chopin  to  'Chopsticks' 
and  his  own  inew  hit  'Sincerely  Yours'  /  _^ 
(lyrics  by  Paul  Francis  Webster)  '     ^^^ 


CO-STARRING 


Joanne  Dru  •  Dorothy  Malone  •  Alex  Nicol 


WITH  WILUAM  DEMAREST-  LORI  NELSON  •  LURENE  TUTTLE  •  Screen  Play  bylRVING  WALLACE 

UCMDV    Dl   AMI/C       Music AdvisorQeorge  Liberace 
Produced  by  fltl'ln  I     DLnl'lAL.  '     An  international  artists  Ltd,  Production 

Directed  by  GORDON  DOUGUS  •  Presented  by  WARNER   BROS. 


VOTE  FOR  Audience  Awards  at  your  favorite  theatre  November  17-27 


23 


T 
V 
R 

24 


SMART  GIRLS 
NEVER  GO 
OUTDOORS 
i    IH    VVITHOUT  IT 


/   N 


net 


■^jAmoA 
spray  net 


No  breeze  can  worry  the  hair  that's 
softly  set  in  place  by  spray  net. 

Have  you  tried  Helena  Curtis  spray  net? 

Nothing  in  the  world  holds  hair  so 
softly,  naturally  in  place  all  day  long.  Only 
Helene  Curtis  spray  net  contains  spray-on 
LanoUn  Lotion — can't  stiffen  or  dry  your 
hair,  never  never  leaves  it  sticky. 

Smart  girls  never  go  outdoors  without 
Helene  Curtis  spray  net.  Or,  if  they  do, 
they're  on  their  way  to  get  a  fresh  supply. 
You'll  find  it  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 
Used  and  recommended  by  pro- 
P  fessional  beauticians  everywhere. 


NEV\^ 
SIZE 

Now  you  can  try  SPRAY  NET 
for  only  69<!  Perfect  for 
purse,  travel,  office  desk, 
bathroom  cabinet. 


|»|>rny 


III    ^  ncl-j 


TWO  FABULOUS  FORMULAS: 
SUPER    SOFT,    without    lacquer,    for  gentle 
control  .  . .  REGULAR,  for  more  elaborate  styles, 
horder-to-manage  hair. 

THREE   SIZES: 

New  69i  size.  Large  $1.25,  Giant  $1.89 

all  vli^  tax 

•T.  M.HEG.U.S.PAT.OFF. 


Why  set  pin  curls  every 
night?  SPRAY  NET  makes 
them  last  for  days! 

Just  roll  them  up.  Spray.  In 
minutes,  your  pin  curls  are 

set . . .  softly and  they'll 

last  for  days. 


Johnny  Desmond  sings  on  Broadway, 
then    plays    Russ   Columbo   on   film. 


WHAT'S    NEW    FROM 

(Continued  from  page  16) 

of  the  late  Negro  dancer,  which 
Frank  Sinatra  plans  to  produce  as  a 
movie  under  his  new  independent 
set-up,  and  in  which  Sinatra  would 
like  to  have  Sammy  as  the  star.  .  .  . 
Mrs.  B.  W.,  Visaha,  Cahf.:  Butch 
Brown,  the  youngster  who  leads  the 
Mickey  Mouse  Cluh  jazz  combina- 
tion on  ABC-TV,  is  the  son  of  the 
bandleader,  Les  Brown.  .  .  .  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  F.  O'D.,  Chicago,  111.:  Sorry  I 
can't  tell  you  exactly  why  the  pro- 
posed Louella  Parsons  filmed  TV 
show  was  cancelled  at  the  last  min- 
ute. All  the  sponsor  would  say  was, 
"for  a  variety  of  reasons.".  .  .  So 
many  letters  about  the  popular  Ethel 
And  Albert  show,  and  the  answer 
should  please  the  loyal  fans  of  this 
program:  Ethel  And  Albert  started 
October  14,  in  a  regular  Friday- 
night  spot  over  ABC -TV,  replacing 
The  Name's  The  Same,  which  has 
been  dropped  by  the  sponsor,  Ral- 
ston. 

What  Ever  Happened  To  ...  ? 

Kenny  Sargent,  who  was  the  star 
vocalist  with  the  popular  Casa  Loma 
Orchestra,  often  heard  on  network 
remote  broadcasts  and  on  records 
several  years  ago?  Kenny  is  living 
and  working  in  Dallas,  Texas,  and 
recently  celebrated  his  third  anni- 
versary as  a  disc  jockey  with  Sta- 
tion KLIF  there. 

Bette  Chappel,  the  cute  singer  who 
appeared  on  the  Garroway  At  Large 
television  show,  originating  in  Chi- 
cago, a  few  seasons  back?  When 
Garroway  and  crew  moved  to  New 
York,  Bette  remained  in  the  Windy 
City  and  did  considerable  night- 
club work  there,  and  also  worked  on 
local  TV  shows.  Recently  she  was 
a  special  guest  in  New  York  on 
Julius  La  Rosa's  program. 

Joe  Bier,  the  farm  editor,  who  was 


\ 


COAST   TO   COAST 


Host  Aliyn  Edwards  serves  top  fare 
on  ABC-TV's  Famous  Film  Festival. 


heard  on  Station  WOR  and  the 
Mutual  network  for  many  years? 
Bier  retired  in  September,  after 
having  done  his  5:30  A.M.  program 
since  1939.  He  was  a  true  radio 
veteran  and  started  broadcasting 
in  1921  as  a  member  of  the  old 
Premiere  Male  Quartet.  Will  Peigel- 
beck  has  taken  over  Bier's  farm 
program. 

John  Newland,  the  outstanding 
dramatic  actor,  who  starred  in  many 
top  TV  productions?  This  past  sum- 
mer Newland  did  considerable  work 
in  summer  stock,  and  then  was 
signed  as  a  director  for  this  season's 
Robert  Montgomery  Presents  shows. 
Whenever  time  permits,  Newland 
hopes  to  switch  back  to  greasepaint 
for  an  occasional  role,  but  it  looks 
like  the  megaphone  will  get  fii-st  call 
on  his  talents  from  now  on. 

Tommy  Bartlett,  who  used  to  host 
Welcome  Travelers?  When  Welcome 
Travelers  moved  from  Chicago  to 
New  York,  Tommy,  who  hadn't  had 
a  vacation  in  twenty-six  years,  de- 
cided to  take  a  year  off.  He  spends 
most  of  his  time  at  his  International 
Deer  Ranch  in  Silver  Springs,  Flor- 
ida, and  cordially  invites  all  his 
friends  to  drop  in. 


//  you  have  a  question  about  one  of 
your  favorite  people  or  programs,  or 
wonder  what  has  happened  to  some- 
one on  radio  or  television,  drop  me 
a  line:  Miss  Jill  Warren,  TV  Radio 
MntEOR  Magazine,  205  East  42nd  Street, 
New  York  17,  N.  Y.,  and  I'll  try  my 
best  to  find  out  for  you  and  put  the 
inforynation  in  this  column.  Unfortu- 
nately, we  don't  have  space  to  answer 
all  questions,  so  I  try  to  cover  those 
personalities  and  shows  about  whom 
I  receive  the  most  inquiries.  Sorry,  no 
personal  answers,  so  kindly  do  not 
enclose  stamped  envelopes  or  postage, 
as  they  cannot  be  returned. 


New  100%  Non-Alkaline 
PALMOLIVE  Q^  SHAMPOO 


Removes  ALKALINE  FILM 

that  clouds  hair  beauty! 


Gentles  your  hair  as  it  cleans  and  sheens! 

Leaves  it  more  obedient,  easier  to  set! 

Will  not  dry  or  devitalize! 


You  may  never  have  seen  the  true  beauty  of  your  hair 
until  you  try  new  Palmolive  Soft  Shampoo.  For  this 
new  100%  non-alkaline  shampoo  gentles  your  hair. 
Sheens  it  to  its  natural  loveliness.  Softens  it  so  curls 
set  easier  .  .  .  and  stay  set  longer. 

New  Palmolive  Soft  Shampoo  contains  no  harsh, 
drying,  devitalizing  chemicals  ...  no  sticky  oils  ...  no 
dulling  alkali.  And  its  exclusive  100%  non-alkaline 
formula  agrees  with  the  natural,  healthy,  non-alkaline 
condition  of  your  scalp  and  hair. 

So  remove  alkaline  film  that  clouds  hair  beauty  with 
new — and  oh,  so  gentle — Palmolive  Soft  Shampoo. 


Scientific  photomicrograph 
shows  how  a  film  of  alkaline 
dust,  dirt,  smog  can  coat  each 
hair  .  .  .  dull  the  luster  and 
color  .  .  .  make  hair  limp  so 
curls  just  won't  stay  set. 


PALMOLIVE 


See  how  the  exclusive  100% 
non-alkaline  formula  of 
Palmolive  Soft  Shampoo  re- 
moves alkaline  film.  Leaves 
more  luster,  natural  color! 
Curls  set  easier,  last  longer. 


SHAMPOO 


Lets  Hair  Behave  and  Hold  a  Wave 


25 


WMUR-TV  viewers  have  happily 

discovered  that,  when  Gerry  Kearney  opens 

the  doors  of  his  Guest  House: 

Anything 
Goes 


Strumming,  singing  or  just  talking,  Gerry  makes  his 
Guest  House  as  warm  and  welcoming  as  the  home 
he  shares  with  Virginia  and  Gerry,  Donald  and  Paul. 


26 


Gerry  has  on  eye  for  such  talent  as  dancer  Solly  Zylo. 


GERRY  KEARNEY  sings  in  what  he  describes  as  a 
"strictly-from-Dixie-how-have-you-been"  voice. 
This,  however,  doesn't  keep  him  from  serenading 
Station  WMUR  viewers  in  Manchester,  New  Hampshire, 
every   weekday   afternoon   at   5: 30   with   "We   have 
music,  we  have  news  .  .  .  We  have  the  weather  and 
people's  views  .  .  ."  and  ending  up  on  the  happy  note 
which  is  his  invitation  to  visit  Guest  House.  .  .  .   Gerry 
means  every  word  of  the  theme  song  he  wrote  himself. 
His    evening    entertainment    hour    includes    songs,   _ 
dances,  skits  and  instrumentals  by  amateurs,  semi-pros 
and  professionals;    interviews   with   people   from   all 
walks  of  life;  and  a  song  or  two,  self -accompanied  on 
guitar  or  banjo,  plus  uncounted  words  from  Gerry. . . . 
When  Gerry  first  threw  open  the  doors  to  Guest  House, 
he  felt  like  "a  lamb  thrown  to  the  lions."    Behind  him 
was  a  solid  background  in  stock  companies,  vaudeville, 
night  clubs,  the  orchestra  business,  and  twelve  years 
as  a  singer  and  announcer  on  Station  WFEA.    But 
a  nightly  hour  on  TV  was  still  a  challenging  assign- 
ment.  .   .   .    Gerry  feels   easier   about  it,  now  that 
viewers  have  taken  to  stopping  him  on  the  street  to  say, 
"I  wouldn't  miss  your  show  for  the  world.    It's  corny, 
but  you're  so  easygoing  about  the  whole  thing.    And 
we  never  know  what  we're  going  to  see  or  what's  going 
to  happen."  .  .  .  This  last  bit  of  philosophy,  now 
propounded  on  his  TV  show,  first  occurred  to  Gerry 
when  he  was  seven  years  old  and  went  unsuspectingly  to 
the  movies  to  watch  a  cowboy  "thriller."  The  projector 
broke  down  and  the  management  tried  to  stave  off 
bedlam  by  asking  for  volunteers  in  an  impromptu  ama- 
teur hour.  Gerry  calmly  rendered  a  little  poem,  complete 
with  suitable  gestures,  and  was  committed  to  show 
business  from  that  moment  on.  .  .  .  Currently,  in  addition 
to  Guest  House,  Gerry  also  handles  staflE  announcing 
chores  at  WMUR-TV.  But  this  still  leaves  plenty  of 
happy  hours  to  spend  at  the  Kearneys'  modest  two- 
apartment  cottage  in  the  center  of  Manchester.  Geri'y 
and  his  wife  Virginia  have  three  sons.  Gerry,  16,  is  a 
six-footer    and    plays    varsity    basketball    at    Bishop 
Bradley  High;  Paul,  14,  also  plays  basketball  and  is  a 
record  collector;  Donald,  6,  has  just  started  grammar 
school.  Gerry's  widowed  mother  completes  the  family 
circle.  Close  friends  of  the  family  include  the  countless 
WMUR  viewers  whom  Gerry  Kearney  invites  into 
the   pleasant,    informal   living    room    at    Guest    House. 


JlANMAIRt  CO  STARRING  IN  PARAMOUNT'S  '  AMTTMIJIti;  UOES." 
IN  VISTAVISION.  COLOR  BY  TCCHNtCOLO*    . 


**«««„. 


you  haven't  lived  until  youVe  known 


EVENING  IN  PARIS 


says  JEANMAIRE,  captivating  French  prenniere  ballerina. 

More  French  women  wear  Evening  in  Paris  than  any  other  perfume  (and  the  French 

really  know!  j.  It  is  one  of  the  world's  great  perfumes  . .  .  and  the  most  wanted 

for  Christmas.  See  many  p,ala  new  j^ifts  from  $1  to  $25. 


Evening   in  Paris  Trio:  cologne,  talc, 
and     purse    perfume    flacon    2.50 


F»j«»**2W»^*-'-ra^7*«i!a*--»»?^«.ii-<.'T>r.,v-j^-^ 


Slide-Top  Set  with   cologne,  talc, 
cologne  stick,  purse  perfume  3.50 


-t/£4L^v^  <^r^^ 


Dresser    Box:   perfume,   toilet  water, 
cologne,    talc,    purse    perfume    5.00 


Jewel    Box,   lined    and    mirrored. 
With    6    fragrant    accessories    8.50 


li  V       B  C!  U   R  .i   O 


«^;'ftf- 


THAT 
IVORY 
LOOK 

YOUNG  AMERIC/b  HAS  IT... 
YOU  CAN   HAVE  IT  IN  7  DAYS! 

It's  easy  to  see  .  .  ,  That  Ivory  Look 
sets  up  a  girl — at  any  age !  For 
it's  true — the  milder  your  beauty  soap,  the 
prettier  your  skin !  And  pure,  mild  Ivory 
is  the  soap  more  doctors  advise  for  baby's 
skin — and  yours — than  any  other  soap! 


Seeing  is  believing  .  .  .  and  That  Ivory  Look 

shows  up  in  your  mirror  in  7  short  days ! 

A  simple  change  to  regular  care  with  baby's  pure,  mild 

Ivory  will  leave  your  skin  looking 

fresher  and  finer  .  .  .  just  aUogether  prettier! 

99  100%    PURE.. .IT   FLOATS 


^0^  + 


=  4 


It's  Uke  getting  one  FREE!  4  cakes  of  Personal  Size  Ivory 
cost  about  the  same  as  3  cakes  of  other 

leading  toilet  soaps.  It  all  adds  up  .  .  . 


PERSONAL  SIZE  IVORY  IS  YOUR   BEST  BEAUTY  BUY! 


What  RoMnawBce 


Means  to  Me 


What  Romance 


Means  to  Me 


By  LIBERACE 
as  told  to  Bud  Goode 


Music's  most  eligible  bachelor 
speaks  frankly  of  the  qualities 
he  seeks  in  his  "ideal  woman" 


Liberace  and  his  brother  George  serenaded  sis+er  Angie, 
when  she  becanne  Tom  Farrell's  bride  .  .  .  and  "Lee"  recalled 
again  how  much  each  marriage  meant  to  his  close-knit  family. 


Guild  Films'  Liberace  Show  (TV)  and  Liberace  Radio 
Show  are  seen  or  heard  throughout  the  United  States 
and   Canada.   See   local   papers   for  time  and  station. 


I  KNOW   from   experience   that   people    sense   a 
certain  loneliness   in   my   life.   After   every 
concert,  I  talk  with  people  whose  eyes  reflect 
a  gentle  kindness — and  frequently  they  make 
their  feelings  known  in  their  goodbyes  by  saying, 
"Take  care  of  yourself  now,  Lee,  and  God  bless 
you." 

I  don't  have  to  be  told  that  nothing  takes  the 
place  of  a  wife  and  marriage.  It's  true.  I  know  it. 
Marriage  is  the  biggest  thing  in  our  lives.  From 
the  time  we  enter  high  school,  it's  the  one  thing 
we  point  toward. 

But,  while  everyone  else  in  my  high-school  class 
was  out  dating,  I  was  already  playing  the  piano 
professionally.  And,  while  they  were  getting  mar- 
ried in  their  early  twenties,  I  was  playing  before 
presidents. 

The  excitement  and  complexities  of  my  work 
have  minimized,  for  me,  what  to  my  friends  is 
the  most  dramatic  moment  of  their  lives.  I  can't 
deny  that,  without  marriage,  there  is  an  empty 
spot  in  my  life. 

If  I  were  to  marry,  what  qualities  wpuld  I  look 
for  in  a  mate?  That  is  a  difficult  question  to 
answer  because,  like  everyone,   I'm  looking  for 
perfection.  In  fact,  that  is  one  of  my  big  problems 


"Lee"  found  that  his  movie  romance  with  Dorothy 
Malone- — in  Warner  Bros.'  film,  "Sincerely  Yours" — 
came  very  close  to  his' own  experience  in  real  life. 


30 


*^.1^^ 


^*^  ;.^: 


u 


\ 


— ^in  everything  I  do  or  have,  I  am  always  seek- 
ing perfection.  Whenever  something  goes  wrong, 
if  one  key  is  flat  on  the  piano,  if  I  strike  a  wrong 
note,  I  am  quick  to  be  discouraged. 

That  is  why  it  has  always  been  so  difl&cult  for 
me  to  find  someone  to  share  my  life  with.  It's 
almost   impossible    to   find   perfection    in   people. 
I  know  I'm  not  perfect,  so  why  should  I  expect 
perfection  in  others?  Yet  I  do.  I  still  search  for  it. 

Intellectually,   I   look   for   someone   who   can 
carry    on    a    conversation    with    everyone    from 
plumbers   to   presidents.    She   doesn't   have    to 
stand  up  on  a  stage  and  deliver  an  address,  but 
she  should  have  a  smattering  of  knowledge  in 
many  areas,  not  necessarily  just  in  the  subjects  I'm 
interested  in. 

From  a  personality  standpoint,  I'm  most  at- 
tracted to  a  girl  who  is  charming,  pleasant,  polite — 
in  short,  a  girl  who  loves  people.  In  my  work 
I  am  constantly  surroxinded  by  people — audiences, 
backstage  visitors,  friends.  If  I  were  to  choose  a 
girl,  she  would  not  only  have  to  feel  at  home  with 
many  people  but  she  should  also  enjoy,  as  I  do, 
meeting    and    talking    and    shaking    hands    with 
sometimes  hvmdreds  in  a  day  or  even  an  hour. 
She  should  be  genuine  and  sincere  in  this  feeling, 
too,  not  just  play-acting  (Continued  on  page  82) 


Career:  "I  found  that  the  girls  I  knew  did  not  want  to  com- 
pete with  the  piano.  .  .  .  Even  more  important — they  had  to 
share  my  feelings  with  hundreds  of  people.   They  resented  it." 


31 


a       «       «      4 


By 

MARTIN 

COHEN 


Everybody  knows  why  we  hve  the  first  of  all  the 
Little  Godfreys  .  .  .  everybody  but  Janette  Davis  herself 


32 


When  not  actually  on  the  show  with  Godfrey  (opposite  page),  Jan 
gives  many  of  her  so-called  leisure  monnents  to  her  waiting  fans. 


JANETTE  Davis  is  a  beautiful  "brunette"  with  a 
"blonde"  personality.  Maybe  like  Garbo,  for  in- 
stance. Maybe.  There  is  one  big  difference,  how- 
ever— although  she  is  reserved,  Jan  isn't  stand-offish 
and  cold.  You  might  guess  that  she's  shy,  but  that's 
wrong,  too.  What  prompts  this  thought  is  that,  of  all 
the  major  entertainers  in  TV  and  radio,  there  is  no 
one  who  gets  less  publicity  than  Jan,  and  there  is 
probably  no  other  person  who  cares  less.  Jan  herself 
is  to  blame,  for  she  is  no  publicity  hound. 

This  will  give  you  an  idea.  A  few  years  back  her 
dentist  asked  for  and  got  an  autographed  picture  of  the 
auburn-haired  songbird  of  the  Arthur  Godfrey  pro- 
grams on  CBS  Radio  and  CBS-TV.  He  himg  it  in  his 
office  along  with  pictures  of  other  celebrities  whose 
mouths  he  was  drilling  and  filling.  Then,  one  day 
recently,  a  friend  of  Jan's  who  uses  the  same  chop- 


and-chisel  man  said,  "Jan,  you  ought  to  give  the  dentist 
a  new  picture  with  an  up-to-date  hairdo." 

Instead  of  agreeing,  Jan  asked,  "Will  you  do  me  a 
favor?  Next  time  you're  in  his  office,  will  you  please 
take  the  picture  off  the  wall?" 

"Why?"  the  friend  asked. 

"I  think  it's  kind  of  brassy,"  Jan  said.  "It's  as  if  I 
were  a  big-shot." 

That's  Jan.  Always  belittling  herself.  She  doesn't 
rudely  poke  her  finger  into  the  eyes  of  magazine 
writers,  but  she  manages  to  avoid  them.  Is  this  one 
of  the  rare  articles  about  Janette  Davis?  It  is.  Do 
people  misunderstand  her?    They  do. 

In  the  first  place,  there's  no  misconstruing  Jan's 
looks.  She  blooms.  She  is  petite  (not  quite  five-feet- 
four)  .  Her  hair  is  auburn  and  she  now  has  it  styled  in 
one  of  those  pizza-type  bobs.  Her  eyes,  ears,  teeth, 


See   Next  Page- 


I 


JXTST 


TV.^VTUI^-^I^'^^*^ 


By 
MARTIN 
COHEN 


Everybody  knows  why  we  love  the  first  of  all  the 
Little  Godfreys  .  .  .  everybody  but  Janette  Davis  herself 


When  not  actually  on  the  sliow  with  Godfrey  (opposite  page],  Jan 
gives  many  of  her  so-called  leisure  monnents  to  her  waiting  fans. 


JANETTE  Davis  is  a  beautiful  "brunette"  with  a 
"blonde"  personality.  Maybe  Uke  Garbo,  for  in- 
stance. Maybe.  There  is  one  big  diflference,  how- 
ever—although  she  is  reserved,  Jan  isn't  stand-otlish 
and  cold.  You  might  guess  that  she's  shy,  but  that  s 
wrong,  too.  What  prompts  this  thought  is  that,  ot  au 
the  major  entertainers  in  TV  and  radio,  there  is  no 
one  who  gets  less  publicity  than  Jan,  and  there  is 
probably  no  other  person  who  cares  less.  Jan  herseii 
is  to  blame,  for  she  is  no  pubhcity  hound. 

This  will  give  you  an  idea.  A  few  years  back  her 
dentist  asked  for  and  got  an  autographed  picture  ot  tne 
auburn-haired  songbird  of  the  Arthur  Godfrey  pro- 
grams on  CBS  Radio  and  CBS-TV.  He  hung  it  m  to 
office  along  with  pictures  of  other  celebrities  whose 
mouths  he  was  drilling  and  filling.  Then,  one  day 
recently,  a  friend  of  Jan's  who  uses  the  same  cnoF 


and-chisel  man  said,  "Jan,  you  ought  to  give  the  denUst 
a  new  picture  with  an  up-to-date  hairdo." 

Instead  of  agreeing,  Jan  asked,  "Will  you  do  me  a 
favor?  Next  time  you're  in  his  office.  wUl  you  please 
take  the  picture  off  the  wall?" 

"Why?"  the  friend  asked. 

"I  think  it's  kind  of  brassy,"  Jan  said.    "Its  as  if  I 

"'Tha^t's'jan.  Always  beUttling  herseU.  She  doesn't 
rudely  poke  her  finger  into  the  eyes  of  magazine 
writers,  but  she  manages  to  avoid  them.  Is  this  one 
Tf  the  rare  articles  about  Janette  Davis?  It  is.  Do 
neople  misunderstand  her?    They  do.  ,        ,     , 

In  the  first  place,  there's  no  nusconstrumg  Jan  s 
looks  She  blooms.  She  is  petite  (not  quite  five-feet- 
our)'  Her  hair  is  auburn  and  she  now  has  it  styled  m 
one  of  those  pizza-type  bobs.  Her  eyes,  ears,  teeth, 

See  Kext  Page- 


•FUST  I^.A.T"UIt.^l^l^U1ir 


{Continued) 


Jan's  encouragement  means  a  lot  to  Talent  Scouts  winners 
facing  the  morning-show  audiences.  Above,  Danny  Costello. 


Janette  Davis  sings  on  Arthur  Godfrey  Time,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  10 
A.M.,  and  CBS-TV,  M-Th,  10:30  A.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship 
—Arthur  Godfrey  And  His  Friends,  CBS-TV,  Wed.,  8  P.M.  spon- 
sored by  The  Toni  Company,  CBS-Columbia,  PiUsbury  Mills,  and 
the  KelloRg  Company— and  Arthur  Godfrey's  Digest,  CBS  Radio, 
Thur.s.,  8:30  P.M.,  under  multiple  sponsorship.  ^rtAur  Godfrey's 
Talent  Scouts  is  simulcast  on  CBS-TV  and  CBS  Radio,  Mon.,  8:30 
P.M.,  sponsored  by  Thomas  J.  Lipton,  Inc.  and  Toni.  (All  EST^ 


Glamour  doesn't  interest  Jon,  even  when  making  up  for 
the  all-seeing  TV  camera.  Utterly  lacking  in  pretense, 
she  prefers  casual  clothes,  does  her  own  hair  and  nails. 


arms  and  so  on,  are  nicely  shaped  and  properly  matched, 
so  that  the  total  effect  is  as  pleasant  as  a  winter  day  in 
Florida. 

Personality-wise,  she  is  soft-spoken.  She  is  not  pushy. 
Many  performers  arrive  at  a  party  like  gangbusters  and 
the  siren  never  stops  screaming.  Jan,  quiet  and  inter- 
ested, usually  keeps  off-stage  and  watches.  "Maybe 
when  the  party  peters  out,"  a  friend  relates,  "when 
we're  down  to  a  few  friends,  Jan  goes  to  the  piano  and 
plays  sbm^  of  the  old  standards  and,  boy,  she  really  gets 
her  teeth  into  them." 

In  show  business,  Jan  is  no  Jenny-come-lately.  In 
nearly  twenty  years  (starting  as  a  child)  she  has  sung 
with  bands,  and  she  has  sung  on  network  shows  with 
Red  Skelton,  Don  McNeill,  Garry  Moore.  In  Cincinnati, 
Shreveport,  Cleveland  and  Chicago,  she  had  her  own 
radio  shows.  She  had  a  network  program  before  she 
joined  Arthur  Godfrey.  So  Jan's  most  valuable  pos- 
session is  her  experience  and  know-how.  This  she 
generously  shares  with  others. 

Winners  of  Arthur's  Talent  Scouts  programs  usually 
join  thfe  Godfrey  family  for  a  week  on  the  morning 
prograih.  They  are  naturally  in  awe  of  the  regular  cast. 
Jan,  always  kindly,  goes  out  of  her  way  to  make  them 
feel  at  ease  and  like  one  of  the  family.  Said  one  ob- 
server, "I  saw  Jan  knocking  herself  out  for  a  very 
beautiful  young  singer.  The  gal  was  good  and  gained 
the  confidence  to  be  even  better,  because  of  Jan's 
friendly  interest.  Now,  I'll  tell  you,  if  Jan  had  been  like 
some  other  singers,  she  would  have  been  concerned  only 
with  herself." 

During  rehearsal,  Arthur  often  calls  on  Jan  for  her 
opinion  of  a  bit  in  the  show.  She  usually  has  one,  and 
it  is  always  backed  up  with  constructive  criticism.  She 
always  tries  to  lend  a  hand  to  newcomers  on  the  show, 
and  often  says:  "Your  originality  is  your  most  precious 
asset.  Don't  trade  it  for  an  imitation  of  someone  else." 

Jan  is  the  first  of  the  Little  Godfreys.  She  joined 
Arthur  ten  years  ago,  when  he  first  put  his  radio  pro- 


34 


Always  a  little  surprised  by  the  devotion  she  Inspires, 
Jan  appreciotes  her  fans'  loyalty,  thinks  Grace  Manfredo 
— a  Janette  Davis  Club  pioneer — is  one  of  the  greatest. 


gr£im  together,  and  the  show — now  on  radio  and  TV — 
has  become  the  biggest  part  of  her  hfe.  She  has  turned 
down  any  number  of  engagements  at  night  clubs.  The 
500  Club  in  Atlantic  City,  where  entertainers  of  the 
stature  of  Durante  and  Martin  and  Lewis  play,  makes 
no  bones  of  the  fact  that  they  have  tried  unsuccessfully 
to  get  Jan  for  a  couple  of  weeks,  or  just  one  week — or 
even  for  a  weekend. 

"The  Godfrey  shows  are  tops  in  my  opinion  aftd  I 
covddn't  do  better,"  Jan  says.  "My  work  consumes  most 
of  my  time  and  energy.  And,  quite  frankly,  I  don't  think 
I'm  capable  of  doing  more." 

Jan's  fans  have  a  lot  to  say  about  her  courtesy  and 
warmth.  She  extends  herself  more  than  most  enter- 
tainers. All  entertainers  work  under  pressure.  They 
sign  autographs — but,  after  that,  it's  apt  to  be  the  polite 
brush-oflf.  Jan  is  one  in  a  tho\asand.  She  stops  on  the 
sidewalk  and  chats.  Almost  every  morning  at  eleven- 
thirty,  she  takes  a  thirty-minute  break.  Jan  spends  part 
of  that  time  with  fans — answering  questions,  signing 
autographs,  letting  them  take  pictures.  A  friend  who  has 
watched  her  do  this  day  after  day  once  asked  Jan,  after 
she  had  been  subjected  to  some  silly  questions,  why  she 
didn't  blow  her  top? 

"It's  not  'sUly  to  them,"  she  answered  simply.  "It's 
important  to  them,  and  I  need  and  appreciate  their 
interest." 

One  elderly  man  has  been  turning  up  at  the  studio 
door  for  nearly  five  years.  He  cherishes  Jan  and 
offers  prayers  for  her  at  his  church.  Jan  always  stops 
to  say  hello.  She  was  impatient  with  him  just  once — 
and  that  was  during  bad  weather,  when  she  asked, 
"Now  why  in  the  world  are  you  standing  out  in  this 
chiU?" 

"I  jvist  wanted  to  see  you,"  he  answered.  There  was 
nothing  to  say,  after  that. 

Another  of  Jan's  fans  and  friends,  Grace  Manfredo, 
has  always  been  devoted  to  her — from  the  age  of  fifteen 
on.  She  had  put  out  an  elaborate  (Continued  on  page  81) 


Between  rehearsals,  Jan  shares  a  brief  coffee  break  at 
Colbee's  with  Maxie  Kendrick,  music  publishers'  contact 
man — and  husbond  of  her  close  friend,   Dottie  Kendrick. 


Wife  Virginia  knew  James  Arness  was  marked  for 
future  greatness — even  when  he  didn't  have  a  dime 
for  an   ice-cream    cone,    In   their   "courting   days." 


Two  against  one  is  a  very  uneven  match  between 
6-foot-6  Jim  and  his  boys.  But  Craig  Is  happily 
sure  he's  quicker  on  the  draw  than  "the  marshal." 


rie'll  always 
be  grateful 

Jim  Arness,  of  TV's  Gunsmoke,  is 

a  hero  to  his  wife,  too— 

and  she's  his  greatest  heroine 

By  ERNST  JACOBI 

LAST  sxjMMER,  when  a  visitor  asked  eight-year-old  Craig 
Arness  the  inevitable  question  as  to  what  he  was  going  to  be 
when  he  grew  up,  the  boy  replied  without  the  slightest 
hesitation,  "An  actor  like  my  dad.  You  have  a  lot  of  fun, 
make  good  money  and  hardly  ever  work." 

James  Arness,  Craig's  father,  had  just  spent  a  couple 
of  months  loafing  at  the  beach  near  their  home. 
Before  that,  he'd  been  on  location  in  the  Bahamas  making 
a  picture  for  Republic,  returning  tanned,  fit  and  glowing. 
And  his  two  previous  pictures,  "The  Sea  Chase"  and  "Hondo," 
both  with  John  Wayne  and  made  at  a  leisurely  pace 
with  long,  pleasant  intervals  between  them,  had  been  fxm, 
too.  Though  he  wasn't  getting  rich,  he  was  making  a  very 
comfortable  living  and,  at  this  point  in  Jim  Arness's  career, 
Craig's  analysis  of  his  father's  occupation  seemed  correct. 
What  the  boy  didn't  know  (Continued  on  page  87) 

James  Arness  stars  as  Marshal  Matt  Dillon  in  Gunsmoke,  as  seen  over  CBS-TV, 
Sat.,  10  P.M.  EST,  sponsored  by  Chesterfield  and  L  &  M  Filter  Cigarettes. 


The  Arness  youngsters — Rolf,  Craig  and  Jennie  Lee — apparently 
have  an  appetite  like  Dad's!  But  there  were  some  lean  times  for 
Jim,  before  he  got  that  role  as  Marshal  Matt  Dillon  in  Gunsmoke. 


36 


As  Grace  Tyrell  in  The  Secret  Storm, 
as  a  gay,  gallant  woman  off-stage, 
Marjorie  Gateson  proves  .  .  . 


IS  j%.  stcajte:  o:f  iiciivx^ 


Mirror  shows  an  up-to-date  Marjorie.  The 
wall  gallery  shows  some  of  her  stage  roles, 
as  she  and  friend  Odette  Myrtil   renninisce. 


By  ED  MEYERSON 

PARDON  ME,  but — aren't  you  Grace  Tyrell?" 
The  question  no  longer  Surprises  the  actress  who  plays  the 
part  of  Grace  on  CBS-TV's  The  Secret  Storm.    Strangers 
stop  her  in  the  street  and  a^jproach  her  in  shops.    Even  little 
children  come  up  to  her,  for  they  apparently  watch  the  show,  too. 

"It's  amazing!"  she  says.    "You  can  be  in  the  biggest  hit 
play  and  no  one  knows  you.  But,  once  you're  on  television, 
you  can't  go  anywhere  without  being  recognized.    It's 
the  greatest  publicity  there  is." 

Even  more  endearing  to  an  actress's  heart,  however,  is  that 
many  of  these  people  know  her  own  name.    "Forgive  me  for 
bothering  you,"  they'll  say,  "but  {Continued  on  page  76) 


38 


The  kitchen  is  small  but  well-stocked  and 
Marjorie  turns  out  snacks  or  company  meals 
without  ruffling   her  coiffure  or  her   poise. 


c  *l 


.»'  V. 


\ 


■\^- 


Marjorie  shows  Dick  Dunn  her  gilt  statuette 
of  Saint  Anthony,  who  "finds  things,"  and 
who  watches  over  her  as  she  studies  her  lines. 


Marjorie  Gateson  is  Grace  Tyrell  in  The  Secret 
Storm,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  4:15  P.M.  EST,  sponsored 
by  Whitehall  Pharmacal  Co.  and  Boyle-Midway,  Inc. 


With  gaiety  and  high  spirits,  Marjorie  turns  a  hotel  suite  into 
a  warm  and  welcoming  home  to  entertain  such  friends  as  Lawrence 
Baker,  Jr.,  Broadway  producer;  Odette  Myrtil,  musical  comedy  star; 
and  Dick  Dunn,  producer  of  The  Secret  Storm  and  Love  Of  Life. 


TV  RADIO  MIRROR 
AVIfARDS  for  1955-56 


Vote  for  Your  Favorite  PHOGRAMS  on  Radio  and  Tetevision 

(Write  name  of  one  program  in  each  column  for  each  classification) 

CLASS  FAVORITE  RADIO  PROGRAM  FAVORITE  TV  PROGRAM 


Daytime  Drama. 


Evening  Drama. 


Daytime  Comedy. 
Evening  Comedy- 
Daytime  Variety— 
Evening  Variety 


Musical  Program. 


Mystery  or  Adventure. 
Quiz  Show 


Panel  Show. 


Women's  Program. 


Children's  Program. 
Western  Program 


Best  Program  on  Air. 


(Cut  out  this  baUot  and  mall  to  TV  RADIO  MIRROR  AWARDS, 
New  York  17,  N.  Y.  It  Is  not  necessary  to  All  in  both  radio  and 


Box  1 476,  Grand  Central  Station, 
television  sections  of  this  ballot.) 


lour  own  votes  decide  the  gold  medal  winners 


I        40 


Vote  tor  Your  Favorite  STARS  on  Hadio  and  Television 

(Write  name  of  one  star  in  each  column  for  each  classification) 


CLASS 


Male  Singer. 


Female  Singer_ 
Comedian 


Comedienne. 


Daytime  Drama  Actor. 


Daytime  Drama  Actress. 
Evening  Drama  Actor 


Evening  Drama  Actress. 

Daytime  Emcee 

Evening  Emcee 


News  Commentator. 
Sportscaster 


Husband-Wife  Team. 
Western  Star 


FAVORITE  RADIO  STAR 

(specify  show  on  which  star  appears) 


FAVORITE  TV  STAR 

(specify  show  on  which  star  appears) 


(Cut  oat  this  ballot  and  mall  to  TT  RADIO  MIBROB  AWARDS,  Box  1 476,  Grand  Central  Station, 
New  York  17,  N.  T.  It  Is  not  necessary  to  fill  In  both  radio  and  television  sections  of  this  ballot.) 


YOU  ARE  the  star-makers  of  America,  the  jury 
whose  verdict  decides  the  success  or  failure  of 
the  programs  and  personalities  who  entertain 
you  on  both  television  and  radio.  And  you  are  the 
judges  whose  votes  will  select  the  winners  of  gold 
medals  in  the  ninth  annual  TV  Radio  Mirror  Awards 
— the  only  recognized,  nationwide  poll  which  offers 
listeners  and  viewers  the  opportunity  to  name  their 
own  favorite  radio  and  TV  stars  and  shows.  Vote 
today!  Your  ballots  must  be  postmarked  no  later  than 


December  10,  1955,  when  a  staff  of  independent  tab- 
ulators starts  adding  up  all  the  votes  you've  cast.  The 
exciting  results  will  be  announced  in  the  May  issue 
of  TV  Radio  Mirror,  complete  with  colorful  pictures 
and  exclusive  stories  of  the  winners.  You  needn't 
sign  your  name,  but  the  only  way  your  favorites  can 
win  is  if  you  place  their  names  on  the  ballots — stars 
on  this  page,  programs  on  the  opposite  .  one— for 
either  radio  or  TV,  or  both.  Then  mail  your  choices 
promptly,  in  time  to  be  counted  for  the  gold  medals! 


in  the  only  nationwide  poll  of  America's  listeners  and  viewers 


41 


tW^ 

i  ] 

— ,BHi 

m    -■ 

/ 

_g___ 

L, 

•j^ 

^" 

B 
\ 

^" 

^^     .1 

^ 

■■■■ 

10       _ 

Paul  starts  work  at  his  kitchen  phone,  leaves  for  the  newspaper  ofRce  at  I  I 
A.  M.,  off  on  a  whirlwind  round, which  often  doesn't  end  till  2  A.M. — next  day. 


*  ^^p         j^^^BB^^^BHBi^^-^                   ■ 

^I^^^B^'^  "^^T^^^^^^i^SB^T^^-p"^ 

■yE£j| 

Straight 


Pa«Z  Coates'  own  story 
tells  why  Confidential  File 
touches  the  heart — 
and  conscience — of  a  nation 


By 
BUD  GOODE 


He  gets  expert  advice  for  his  TV 
reports — above  right,  Dr.  Robert 
Stoller,    U.   C.    L   A.   psychiatrist. 


Face  nnask  protects  the  identity  of  a 
would-be  suicide  who  hoped  her  story 
might  help  save  others  from  despair. 


This  14-year-old — name  withheld,  as 
always — told  Paul  a  pathetic  story  of 
feeling  "rejected"  by  her  own  parents. 


42 


from  his  heart 


Coates  family  includes  wife   Renee;  daughter  Joren,    12,   sons   Kevin,    8, 
and  Timmie,  7 — plus  Friendly,  the  dog;  Nino,  the  pony;  Cameo,  the  horse. 


THE  RED  LIGHT  over  the  TV  studio  door  blinked:  "Studio 
in  Use."  The  sign  on  the  heavy  double  door  read: 
"Closed  Set."  There  was  no  audience  for  the  show  going 
on  inside,  and  the  auditorium  with  its  three  hundred 
empty  seats  was  quiet  as  a  crypt.  Besides  the  half-dozen 
crew  members,  there  were  only  two  other  people  in  the 
studio — a  neatly  dressed,  stolid-faced,  already-old,  yoxing 
man  seated  beside  a  woman  in  a  plain  housedress.  The 
woman's  face  was  covered  with  a  large  mask.   When  the 


cue  came,  the  young  man  read  the  lines  which  opened 
the  show:  "The  woman  you  are  about  to  meet,"  he  said, 
"didn't  want  to  wear  a  mask.  She  felt  she  had  nothing 
to  be  ashamed  of  .  .  ." 

Thus,  Paul  Coates,  starring  in  Confidential  File,  was 
on  the  air  again.  Suicide  was  the  subject  vmder  discus- 
sion. The  woman  hidden  behind  the  mask  had  tried  to 
take  her  life  five  times.  Five  times  she  had  failed.  Now 
xinder  an   analyst's   care,   she    {Continued  on  page    94) 


Confidential  File  is  produced  by  Guild  Films,  sponsored  by  Bardahl  Manufacturing  Corp.  and  others.  Consult  newspapers  for  time  and  station. 


43 


She  loves  her  dolls — and  dreams  of 
dates.  Robin  Morgan's  growing  up — 
and  not  too  sure  she  wants  to  hurry ! 


Wary  of  formal  dates,  Robin  prefers  casual  get- 
togethers  at  home,  around  the  piano — or  her'uke. 


Robin  gets  lots  of  fan  mail,  as  Mama's  Dagmar — much  of  it 
concerning  teen-age  problems  now  that  she's  almost  fourteen. 


66 


99 


Other  girls  have  to  watch  their  weight,  as  she 
does — but  few  of  them  have  Robin's  long  tresses! 


By  MARY  TEMPLE 

JUST  A  GLIMPSE  of  Robin  Morgan's  fan  mail,  through 
the  years,  tells  a  great  deal  about  a  talented  child 
who  has  grown  up,  on  radio  and  television,  into 
a  lovely  and  lovable  teenager.  Though  Robin  won't  be 
fourteen  until  her  next  birthday  (January  29),  she's 
been  getting  fan  mail  almost  aU  her  life.  At  three,  she  was 
entertaining  at  hospitals  in  Lake  Worth  (in  Florida, 
where  she  was  born)  ...  at  four,  doing  children's 
fashion-show  commentaries  and  appearing  on  a  TV 
program  (her  first)  ...  at  five,  having  her  own  disc- 
jockey show  in  New  York  spinning  children's 
records  and  telling  little  stories  {Continued  on  page  69) 

Robin  Morgan  is  Dagmar  Hansen  on  Mama,  over  CBS-TV,  Fri.,  8  P.M. 
EST,  for  Maxwell  House  Coffee,  Post's  40%  Bran  Flakes,  Grape-Nuts. 


Guided  by  her  mother,   Robin  has  learned  that  plenty  of 
sleep  and  proper  food  are  the  finest  of  all  beauty  secrets. 


V. 


,■»       ■•   »)(' 


mm^ 


J*..  > 


As  Young  Dr.  Malone, 
as  husbafid,  father  and 
entertainer  extraordinary, 
Sandy  Becker  gives — 
and  receives — 


More  than  anyone  could  ask 


By  FRANCES  KISH 


WEEKDAYS,  Sandy  and  Ruth  Becker  live  in 
a  reasonably  serene  household.  That  is,  it's  as 
reasonably  serene  as  any  house  can  be — with 
three  lively  children,  a  huge  German  shepherd 
dog,  two  parrakeets  that  have  the  run  of  the  place, 
a  chattering  dwarf  parrot,  and  a  collection  of 
other  animals  which  may  at  any  time  include 
strange  turtles  from  the  Amazon  or  even 
a  stray  duck.  Plus  at  least  six  tanks  of  odd  tropical 
fish — including   one   called   a   man-eater,   and 
enough  guppies  to  stock  a  hatchery.  Furthermore, 
there's  a  hi-fi  system  installed  in  the  living 
room  and  connected  up  to  the  master  bedroom — 
plus  a  grand  piano  on  which  eleven-year-old 
Joyce  does  her  practicing.  And  a  power-tool  shop 
in  the  basement  where  Sandy,  supervised  by  six-and- 
a-half-year-old  Curtis,  works  on  do-it-yourself 
projects.     Add  winsome  five-year-old  Annelle,  who 
comes  romping  in  with  half  the  kids  in  the 
neighborhood  in  tow,  and  you  have  a  pretty 
good  picture  of  what  goes  on  during 
any  ordinary  day  at  the  Beckers'. 

Saturday  is  the  really  lively  day  for  the  Becker 
family,  when  Daddy's  free  from  his  radio 
and  television  chores.  Sandy  has  then  completed  his 
five-times-a-week   stint,   starring  as   Young 

Continued        ^ 


46 


In  their  big  white  house  on  Long  Island,  Sandy  does  one  of 
his  impish  sketches  for  his  wife,  Ruth — whose  own  artistic 
tastes  run  toward  antiques,  such  as  that  handsome  silver  pot. 


Dwarf  parrot  Hajjl  Baba  is  Sandy's  "co-star." 


Saturday  is  "all  together"  time  for  the  Beckers — Sandy,  Ruth, 
Joyce,  Curtis,  and  little  Annelle.  One  of  Sandy's  favorite  treats 
then   is  taking   them   for   a    spin   in    his   cherished    Mercedes-Benz. 


/!.-:.>^.< 


3S?iv--^ 


'■•'^ii 


■♦      \.. 


f  ^'{J*  ..<  •J'*-;-^-'^fpf>^sMi^^ 


More  than  anyone  could  ask 


(Continued) 


There's  a  do-it-yourself  workshop  in  the 
Becker  basement.  Ruth  shops  for  bargains  in 
antiques.  Sandy  remodels  'em  for  home  use. 


Sandy  loves  anything  mechanical,  likes  to 
tinker  with  his  "dream"  car.  He  also  loves 
anything   electronic,    is   a   great   hi-fi   fan. 


Dr.  Malone  over  CBS  Radio.  There's  a  brief  gap  in  the 
children's  TV  programs  he  does  for  WABD,  Du  Mont's 
key  station  in  New  York — The  Sandy  Becker  Show  and 
Looney  Tunes,  Monday  through  Friday,  Wonderama  on 
Sunday  afternoons.  And  there's  no  "hve"  commercial  to 
be  done — at  least,  not  at  this  writing,  though  he's  much  in 
demand  as  an  announcer,  too.  (For  instance,  Sandy  is 
the  Wndroot  "host"  on  The  Adventures  Of  Rohin  Hood, 
Monday  nights  over  CBS-TV.) 

Right  now,  however,  Saturday  is  Sandy's  holiday,  when 
he  can  stay  at  the  big  white  house  out  on  Long  Island, 
putter  around  the  yard,  take  Ruth  or  the  children  for  a 
run  in  the  Mercedes-Benz  sports  car  which  is  one  of  his 
most  exciting  dreams-come-true,  and  point  out  to  them 
for  the  several-hundredth  time  how  wonderfully  it  is 
designed  and  constructed — ^for  Sandy  is  both  a  sports-car 
and  hi-fi  fan,  with  a  taste  for  the  finest  in  mechanics  and 
electronics. 

He  can  spend  hours  on  Saturday  in  that  workshop  of 
his,  finishing  off  such  projects  as  the  window  seats  he  has 
been  building  all  arovmd  the  sunroom  for  the  children — 
or  the  wiring  of  one  of  Ruth's  lamp  bases,  frequently 
made  from  a  fine  piece  of  crystal  she  has  picked  up  at 
auction  for  a  trifling  sum.  Meanwhile,  the  music  he  and 
Ruth  love  (much  of  it  definitely  long-hair)  will  be  drift- 
ing all  through  the  house — and  sometimes  thundering  out, 
if  the   composition   happens   to   be   one   of   Sandy's   pet 


j^-^-^H^ 


Smallest  members  ot  the  Becker  household — not  counting 
their  tropical  fish! — are  Hajji  Baba,  the  dwarf  parrot  who 
"acts"  on  Sandy's7V  shows,  and  Goldie,  the  baby  porrakeet. 


percussion  recordings  or  perhaps  a  real  hot  jazz  number. 

Neighbors  will  drop  in  for  a  little  conversation.  Com- 
pany will  be  coming  for  meals  and  for  Scrabble  sessions. 
Clyde  Clem,  who  used  to  be  Sandy's  roommate  when  they 
were  both  radio  announcers  in  Charlotte,  North  Caro- 
lina— where  Sandy  and  Ruth  met,  fell  in  love  and  were 
married — now  lives  about  five  minutes'  drive  from  the 
Beckers  and  runs  in  to  talk  shop  and  visit.  Clyde  is  now 
manager  of  audience  promotion  for  the  NBC  radio  and 
television  networks,  and  the  men  are  still  buddies.  Phil 
Colliding  and  his  pretty  wife  stop  by  to  say  hello.  Phil  is 
with  local  radio  station  WMGM  in  New  York  and  is  the 
brother  of  Ray  Goulding  of  Bob  and  Ray  fame. 

But  people  who  have  no  connection  with  show  busi- 
ness, and  only  know  the  Beckers  as  good  neighbors, 
come  by  to  chat,  too.  Fred  Blahnik,  the  police  captain 
who  lives  across  the  street  and  is  one  of  Sandy's  best 
friends,  is  a  frequent  visitor.  There  will  hardly  be  an  hour 
when  someone  isn't  coming  or  going  from  the  friendly- 
looking  Georgian  house,  which  is  set  on  an  irregular- 
shaped  comer  lot  that  trails  off  in  back  to  a  children's 
play  area,   to   gardens   and   a    (ContiniLed   on  page  89) 

Sandy  Becker  is  Young  Dr.  Malone,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  1 :30  P.M.  EST. 
He  is  host  of  three  big  children's  television  shows  on  WABD  (New 
York) — The  Sandy  Becker  Show,  M-F,  from  8:45  to  10  A.M.;  Looney 
Tunes,  M-F,  6:30  P.M.:  Wonderama.  Sunday,  from  12  noon  to  6  P.M. 


Oldest  pet  is  Jocko,  Sandy's  German  shepherd.  Jocko  has 
spent  almost  all  his  five. years  as  friend  and  protector  of 
the  young  Beckers — Annelle,  4;  Curtis,  6I/2;  and  Joyce,   I  I. 


49 


^  ^mmm 


Mary's  now  singing  to  her  own 
first-born — just  as  Joanne  sings  to 
Patti,  on  Search  For  Tomorrow 

By  MARY  STUART 


I  WONDER,  Cynthia,  if  you  will  ever  realize  how  much 
your  coming  meant  to  your  father  and  me.  In  the  first  place, 
I  wanted  a  girl  so  much.  And  so  did  Richard.   Of  course, 
we  would  have  loved  having  a  little  boy,  too.    In  fact,  I  had 
all  your  layette  and  your  nursery  done  in  hXue.   As  you'll 
someday  learn,  that's  the  traditional  color  for  boys.    Somehow, 
I  secretly  felt  that,  if  I'd  ordered  everything  in  pink,  we 
just  wouldn't  have  got  the  Uttle  girl  we  dreamed  of  having. 
We  even  had  a  boy's  name  picked  out!    Stephen  was  our  first 
choice,  then  we  decided  on  Jeffrey — ^and  we're  still  hoping 
that  you'll  have  a  little  brother  named  Jeffrey,  before 
you're  old  enough  to  read  this. 

But  we  didn't  tempt  fate  by  choosing  any  girl's  names.  I'm 
not  quite  s\ire  now,  just  how  we  arrived  at  "Cynthia."    It  must 
have  just  come  to  xis.  It  is  not  a  family  name.  It  is  not  the 
name  of  any  character  I've  ever  played  in  pictures  or  on  TV — 
nor,  so  far  is  I  know,  that  of  any  favorite  {S2on1xn,ued,  on  page  92) 

Mary  Stuart  is  Joanne  Tate  in  Search  For  Tomorrow,  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:30  P.M. 
EST,  sponsored  by  the  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Joy,  Spic  and  Span,  G^eem. 


Mary's  husband,  producer  Richard  Krolik,  didn't 
make  any  promises  about  playing  the  "proud  papa." 
He  thought  he'd  have  to  learn  his  new  role — but 
Cynthia    had    him    under   control,   from   first   sight! 


Busy  as  she  is,  caring  for  baby,  Mary  paused  to 
write  the  accompanying  "letter,"  telling  Cynthia  of 
their  happiness  today — and  dreams  for  tomorrow. 


51 


Baby  Chris  was  born  that  fateful  autumn  when  Bob 
discovered  how  very  much  he  loved  his  family— -wife 
Mildred  and  older  sons  Robin,   13,  and  Ronnie,   12. 


Now  Bob  spends  all  his  after-work  hours  in  or  near 
his  home  and  finds  that  the  Smiths'  charming  little 
"recreation  room"  is  really  a  great  place  to  relax. 


In  the  valley  of  the  shadow, 
Howdy  Doody's  Bob  Smith 
learned  the  things  that  count 

By  WARREN  CROMWELL 

SOMETIMES  it  takes  a  mighty  strong 
blow  from  fate  to  make  even 
the  happiest  man  pause  to  count  his 
blessings.  He  can  be  proud  of  his 
family,  getting  a  big  kick  out  of 
success,  enjoying  the  fact  that  he 
finally  has  the  money  to  do  the 
things  for  his  loved  ones  that  he's 
always  wanted  to  do — and  stiU  lose 
sight  of  the  many  little  blessings 
which  make  life  so  rich  for  all  of  us. 

That's  pretty  much  how  it  was 
with  Bob  Smith,  creator  and  star  of 
the  fabulous  children's  program. 
Howdy  Doody.  In  Bob's  case,  it  was 
a  nearly  fatal  heart  attack,  at  the 
height  of  his  career,  which  made 
him  appreciate  many  things  he  had 
begun  to  take  for  granted.  And 
it  was  during  his  slow  but  steady 
recovery  that  Bob  came  to  realize  so 
clearly  that  (Continued  on  page  86) 

Bob  Smith's  Howdy  Doody  Show  is  seen  in 
color  and  black-and-white  on  NBC-TV,  M-F, 
5:30  P.M.  EST,  under  multiple  sponsorship. 


ym/!^ 


The  grass  never  looked  so  green  to  Bob,  the  sky  so  blue,  as  when   he  left  his 
sickbed  to  walk  outside  his  home.  And  Mil  never  looked  more  lovable  and  dear. 


Big  hobbies  are  music  and  baseball:  Bob  plays  the  piano  i.n  his  home  studio, 
with  Ronnie  on  clarinet,  Robin  on  trumpet.  Little  Christopher  Mayo  Smith  was 
named  after  the  manager  of  the  Phillies — no  family  relation  but  a  sports  idol! 


53 


By 

HELEN  BOLSTAD 


Loyal  Louise  Thompson  and 
nurse  Edna  Crichton  teamed  up 
to  help  Beth — and  her  parents 
— enjoy  Thanksgiving  at  home. 


VS^ELCOME 


THANKSGIVING,  for  Pat  Meikle  and  her  husband,  Hal 
Cooper,  has  become  the  most  important  of  festive 
days.  "More  important  than  birthdays,"  says  Pat, 
the  gracious  and  sparkhng  hostess  of  Welcome  Travelers 
on  CBS-TV,  star  of  the  long -beloved  children's  program 
Magic  Cottage,  and  currently  also  a  hostess  for  Won- 
derama,  Station  WABD's  big  children's  program  in  the 
New  York  area. 

"Thanksgiving  is  even  more  important  than  our  wed- 
ding anniversary,"  adds  Hal,  who  directs   Search  For 


Wee  Beth's  first  important  holiday  gave  mama  Pat  Meikle 

and  papa  Hal  Cooper  an  inspiring  lesson  in  love 


Beth  attended  that  first  family  dinner   in   her   baby   carriage. This  year,  she  sits  up  to  the  table  like  a   little  lady! 

TO  OUR   FAMILY 


Tomorrow,  over  CBS-TV,  and  is  producer  of  Pat's  pro- 
grams for  children. 

"It's  the  day,"  she  explains,  "that  Hal  and  I,  after  all 
these  years  of  marriage,  stopped  being  just  a  man  and 
wife  whose  personal  lives  sort  of  got  gobbled  up  by  tele- 
vision, and  fovind  out — thanks  to  little  Beth  and  our 
helpers — that  we're  a  family." 

It  began,  they  recount,  at  their  Madison  Avenue  apart- 
ment one  late  November  day  a  year  ago.  Hal  tossed 
down  his  next  morning's   script,   stretched   that  good. 


end-of-the-day  stretch  and  ambled  out  to  the  kitchen. 
At  the  doorway,  he  surveyed  the  scene  and  remarked, 
"You  girls  certainly  have  the  joint  jumping." 

The  kitchen  was  as  busy  as  three  capable  women 
could  make  it.  Pat,  switching  from  glamour  girl  to  de- 
voted young  mother,  was  at  the  ironing  board  putting 
the  finishing  touches  to  the  lace-trimmed  flounce  of 
three-month-old  Beth's  tiny  dress.  Beth's  nurse,  Edna 
Crichton,  was  at  the  stove,  preparing  formula.  Louise 
Thompson,    their   maid,    was   finishing    up    the    dinner 

See  Next  Paget 


55 

■i 


WELCOME  TO  OUR   FAMILY 

(Continued) 


Inspired  by  Beth's  arrival,  Pat  and  Hal  have  found  themselves  a  "small 
town"  in  the  heart  of  New  York's  Greenwich  Village,  complete  with  com- 
munity gardens,  a  hearth  to  dream  by — and  room  for  a  family  to  grow  in. 


dishes.  At  Hal's  entrance,  each  looked  up,  mtirmvired  a 
polite  greeting  and  went  on  with  her  work. 

Hal  tried  again  to  gain  attention.  "Pat,  have  you 
thought  anything  about  Thanksgiving?  Will  we  go  to 
the  folks'  house,  or  is  one  of  the  aunts  giving  the  dinner 
this  year?" 

Pat  flipped  the  iron  back  on  its  rest.  "Dear,  I  don't 
see  how  we  can  go  either  place.  It  takes  so  long  to  get  to 
Far  Rockaway,  and  I  don't  think  we  should  keep  Beth 
out  that  late." 

Hal  nodded.  He,  too,  had  been  adding  studio  time  to 
travel  time  and  coming  out  with  a  dinner  hour  trouble- 
some to  all  concerned.  Rehearsals  and  shows  would 
keep  both  of  them  tied  up  until  nearly  seven  o'clock. 
But  the  memory  of  many  happy  Thanksgivings  was  so 
strong  that  his  disappointment  showed.  "I  suppose  we'd 
better  just  skip  the  whole  thing." 

Reluctantly,  Pat  agreed.  "Even  if  we  just  took  some 
of  the  kids  from  the  show  to  a  restaurant,  it  would  mean 
that  either  Edna  or  Louise  would  have  to  baby-sit.  We 
don't  want  to  keep  you  girls  away  from  Thanksgiving 
with  your  own  families.    We'll  Just  have  to  plan  some- 


thing special  next  year."  She,  too,  sovmded  disappointed. 

But  Pat  reckoned  without  Edna,  that  West  Indian 
woman  of  great  heart  and  strong  character  who  had 
come  into  their  household  "for  three  weeks"  after  Beth 
was  born  and  had  remained  as  permanent  nurse  and 
family  friend.  She  had  also  failed  to  coimt  on  loyal 
Louise,  who  had  been  with  them  for  five  years.  At 
Pat's  dismissal  of  Thanksgiving  plans,  Edna  set  down 
the  rack  of  baby  bottles  with  a  rattle.  "Do  you  mean," 
she  demanded,  "that  Beth's  going  to  have  no  Thanks- 
giving?" 

"She's  so  tiny  .  .  ."  said  Pat. 

"We  have  to  work,"  said  Hal.  "That's  show  business 
for  you." 

"But  it's  not  family '  business,"  said  Edna. 


Pat  Meikle  is  the  hostess  on  Welcome  Travelers,  CBS-TV,  M-F, 
1 :30  P.M.,  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Camay,  Ivory 
Snow,  Oxydol,  Gleem,  Prell.  She  is  a  hostess  for  Wonderama,  over 
Station  WABD  (New  York),  Sun.,  12  noon— 6  P.M.  Search  For 
Tomorrow  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:30  P.M.,  as  sponsored 
by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Joy,  Spic  and  Span,  Gleem.   (All  EST) 


56 


"fifU^ 


Said  Loviise,  with  five  years'  knowledge  of  the  Coopers' 
habits  and  responsibilities,  "They  always  work.  Thanks- 
giving.   Christmas.   Foiirth  of  July  .  .  ." 

Edna  was  indignant.  "Maybe  that  used  to  be  all  right 
for  you  folks,  but  it's  not  right  for  Beth.  You're  a  family 
now.  Louise  and  I  will  see  that  you  have  a  Thanks- 
giving." 

Pat,  recalling  the  golden-brown  turkey  and  all  the 
trimmings  which  finally  greeted  them  last  year,  says: 
"What  a  dinner  that  was!"  The  girls  had  worked  out  a 
plan  and  the  Coopers'  dinner  was  all  ready  before  they 
left  for  their  own  dinner  with  their  families. 

"It  was  the  first  Thanksgiving  we'd  ever  had  in  our 
own  home,"  Hal  recalls,  "and  it  turned  out  to  be  quite 
a  party.  Ted  Walsh,  our  assistant,  was  there  and  we 
brought  Beth  to  the  table  in  her  carriage.  She  sat 
propped  up  against  her  pillows,  laughing  and  cooing  and 
flirting  with  Ted.  She  really  seemed  to  know  this  was 
something  special." 

"It  was  special  for  us,  too,"  says  Pat.  "This  was  the 
first  time  we  really  understood  what  it  was  like  to  be  a 
family — that  we   belonged  to    {Continued   on  page   91) 


There's  plenty  of  fresh  air  for  Beth,  and  the  grown-up 
Coopers  enjoy  that  sunshine,  too — whether  playing  with 
Beth,  studying  scripts,  or  making  plans  for  the  future. 


VS/ELCOMI 


TO  OUR   FAMILY 

(Continued) 


Inspired  by  Beth's  arrival,  Pot  and  Hal  have  faund  themselves  o  "small 
town"  in  the  heart  of  New  York's  Greenwich  Village,  complete  with  com- 
nnunity  gardens,  a  hearth  to  dream  by — and  room  for  a  family  to  grow  in. 


dishes.  At  Hal's  entrance,  each  looked  up,  murmured  a 
polite  greeting  and  went  on  with  her  work. 

Hal  tried  again  to  gain  attention.  "Pat,  have  you 
thought  anything  about  Thanksgiving?  Will  we  go  to 
the  folks'  house,  or  is  one  of  the  aunts  giving  the  dinner 
this  year?" 

Pat  flipped  the  iron  back  on  its  rest.  "Dear,  I  don't 
see  how  we  can  go  either  place.  It  takes  so  long  to  get  to 
Far  Rockaway,  and  I  don't  think  we  should  keep  Beth 
out  that  late." 

Hal  nodded.  He,  too,  had  been  adding  studio  time  to 
travel  time  and  coming  out  with  a  dinner  hour  trouble- 
some to  all  concerned.  Rehearsals  and  shows  would 
keep  both  of  them  tied  up  until  nearly  seven  o'clock. 
But  the  memory  of  many  happy  Thanksgivings  was  so 
strong  that  his  disappointment  showed.  "I  suppose  we'd 
better  just  skip  the  whole  thing." 

Reluctantly,  Pat  agreed.  "Even  if  we  just  took  some 
of  the  kids  from  the  show  to  a  restaurant,  it  would  mean 
that  either  Edna  or  Louise  would  have  to  baby-sit.  We 
don't  want  to  keep  you  girls  away  from  Thanksgiving 
vnth  your  own  families.    We'll  just  have  to  plan  some- 


thing special  next  year."  She,  too,  sounded  disappointed. 

But  Pat  reckoned  without  Edna,  that  West  Indian 
woman  of  great  heart  and  strong  character  who  had 
come  into  their  household  "for  three  weeks"  after  Beth 
was  born  and  had  remained  as  permanent  nurse  and 
family  friend.  She  had  also  failed  to  count  on  loyal 
Louise,  who  had  been  with  them  for  five  years.  At 
Pat's  dismissal  of  Thanksgiving  plans,  Edna  set  down 
the  rack  of  baby  bottles  with  a  rattle.  "Do  you  mean, 
she  demanded,  "that  Beth's  going  to  have  no  Thanks- 
giving?" 

"She's  so  tiny  .  .  ."  said  Pat. 

"We  have  to  work,"  said  Hal.    "That's  show  business 
tor  you." 

"But  it's  not  family  business,"  said  Edna. 

Pat  Meikle  is  the  iiostess  on  Welcome  Travelers,  CBS-TV,  M-F. 
1 :30  P.M.,  sponsored  by  The  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  for  Camay,  Ivory 
Snow,  Oxydol,  Gleem,  Piell.  She  is  a  hostess  for  Wonderama,  over 
Station  WABD  (New  York),  Sun.,  12  noon— 6  P.M.  Search  For 
Tomorrow  is  seen  over  CBS-TV,  M-F,  12:30  P.M.,  as  sponsored 
by  Procter  &  Gamble  for  Joy,  Spic  and  Span,  Gleem.   (All  ESI) 


Said  Louise,  with  five  years'  knowledge  of  the  Coopers 
habits  and  responsibilities,  "They  always  work.  Thanks- 
giving. Christmas.   Fourth  of  July  .  .  ."  . 

Edna  was  indignant.  "Maybe  that  used  to  be  all  right 
for  you  folks,  but  it's  not  right  for  Beth.  You're  ±i^^^y 
now.  Louise  and  I  will  see  that  you  have  a  Thanks- 
giving." 

Pat,  recalling  the  golden-brown  turkey  and  all  the 
trimmings  which  finally  greetejd  them  last  year,  says. 
"What  a  dinner  that  was!"  Thfe  girls  had  worked  out  a 
plan  and  the  Coopers'  dinner  was  all  ready  before  mey 
left  for  their  own  dinner  with  their  families. 

"It  was  the  first  Thanksgiving  we'd  ever  had  in  our 
own  home,"  Hal  recalls,  "and  it  turned  out  to  be  quite 
a  party.  Ted  Walsh,  our  assistant,  was  there  and  we 
brought  Beth  to  the  table  in  her  carriage,  hhe  sai 
propped  up  against  her  pUlows,  laughing  and  cooing  ana 
flirting  with  Ted.  She  really  seemed  to  know  this  was 
something  special."  „_  .  jv,_ 

"It  was  special  for  us,  too,"  says  Pat.  "This  was  the 
first  time  we  really  understood  what  it  was  like  to  oe  a 
famUy— that  we  belonged  to    (Continued  on  page  "'■> 


There's  plenty  of  fresh  air  for  Beth,  and  the  grovcn-up 
Coopers  enjoy  that  sunshine,  too — v/hether  playing  with 
Beth,  studying  scripts,  or  making  plans  for  the  future. 


As  young  Toby  and  his  mother,  Laura,  take  delight  in  Toby's  new  puppy,  Dr.  Crane  tries  to  advi; 
and  connfort  Albert  Wexler,  who  is  allergic  to  dogs  but  wants  to  please  Toby— his  stepson-to-b 


58 


Dr.  Crane's  experience  proves  that  taking  life 

too  seriously  is  as  great  a  mistake  as  taking  life  too  lightly 


MOST  PEOPLE,  in  all  walks  of  life,  are  called  upon 
at  various  times  to  do  more  than  is  expected 
of  them.  For  a  doctor,  however,  this  is  not 
the  exception  but  the  rule.  A  doctor's  primary  mis- 
sion in  life  is  to  cure  the  sick.  But,  at  times,  he  also 
has  to  be  an  adviser,  philosopher,  mediator  and  help- 
ing hand.  In  a  city  hospital,  a  doctor's  complex  role 
is  magnified,  for — in  addition  to  attending  all  kinds 
of  patients  with  all  kinds  of  Uls — a  doctor  often  finds 
himself  involved  in  problems  concerning  his  col- 
leagues and  subordinates.  .  .  .  Dr.  Barton  Crane  of 
City  Hospital  is  a  man  of  great  talent,  patience  and 
wisdom,  as  well  as  a  successfxil  man  of  medicine.  It 
is  only  natiiral,  therefore,  that  his  advice  and  com- 
fort should  be  sought  by  members  of  the  City  Hospi- 
tal staff,  as  weU  as  its  patients.  Recently,  this  oc- 
curred with  Albert  Wexler,  one  x)f  the  hospital's 
pharmacists.  Albert,  a  serious  but  often  over-anxious 
young  man,  was  in  love  with  Laura,  a  nurse  at 
City  Hospital,  and  planned  to  marry  her.  But 
Laura,  a  widow  for  ten  years,  was  also  the  mother 
of  twelve-year-old  Toby.  Worrier  that  he  was, 
Albert  was  afraid  to  break  the  news  to  Toby  for 
fear  that  it  would  make  the  boy  iinhappy  or  cause 
him  to  resent  Albert.  .  .  .  "The  main  cause  for 
Albert's  concern  was  that  he  took  matters  too  seri- 
ously and  had  a  tendency  to  underestimate  himself. 
This  was  made  clear  to  Dr.  Crane  after  he  had  lent 
Albert  several  books  on  psychology.  For,  no  sooner 
had  Albert  read  them,  than  he  began  applying  what 
little  he  had  learned  to  his  own  relationship  with 
Toby.  "A  little  knowledge  is  a  dangerous  thing," 
Dr.  Crane  mused,  as  he  tried  to  make  Albert  realize 
that  his  situation  was  not  some  abstract  case  history. 
"Take  it  easy,"  he  advised  Albert.  "Toby  will  be 
tickled  pink  to  have  you  for  a  father — especially  if 
you  want  to  be  one."  .  .  .  Although  Albert  found  it 
difficult  to  "take  it  easy,"  he  did  make  an  attempt 
to  get  closer  to  Toby.  That  evening,  when  he  went 
to  see  Laura,  he  brought  Toby  a  present — a  baseball 
mitt — and  told  the  boy  that  he  and  Laura  planned 
to  marry.  Toby  accepted  the  gift  and  the  marriage 
news  covirteously,  but  showed  no  visible  sign  of 
being  happy  or  sad.  Albert  never  had  been  very 
interested  in  baseball — chess  was  more  to  his  liking — 
but  he  assumed  Toby  would  be.  Later,  when  Lavira 
heard  about  the  mitt  Albert  had  given  Toby,  she 
explained  that  Toby  didn't  care  much  for  baseball 
because  his  eyesight  was  not  good  enough.  Immedi- 
ately, Albert  tried  to  apologize  to  Toby  for  his  slight 
blunder,  but  again  Toby  showed  no  significant  reac- 
tion. .  .  .  Feeling  he  was  completely  to  blame,  Albert 
again  sought  Dr.  Crane's  advice.  Dr.  Crane  told  him, 


"I  know  you  love  Laura,  and  I'm  svire  you  love  her 
son.  You'll  get  through  to  the  boy.  He'U  know  the 
way  you  really  do  feel  about  him."  Albert  bright- 
ened a  bit  as  he  told  Dr.  Crane,  "I  feel  a  great — 
affinity  for  Toby.  Because  he's  so  little,  and  I  was 
always  little.  And  he  hasn't  had  a  father,  and  that's 
like  me,  too,  in  a  way,  because  my  father  never  took 
any  notice  of  me.  I  can  tell  how  he  feels.  ...  I  just 
hope  that  somehow  I  can  get  through  to  him."  .  .  . 
The  next  time  Albert  visited  Laura,  he  discovered 
that  Toby  loved  dogs,  although  he  had  never  had 
one  of  his  own.  This  set  Albert  to  thinking  and,  the 
following  day,  when  Dr.  Crane  ran  into  Albert  at 
the  hospital,  the  young  man  was  brimming  over  with 
excitement.  Then  he  showed  Dr.  Crane  why:  He  had 
gotten  a  lively  little  puppy  for  Toby.  As  he  told 
Dr.  Crane,  "I  think  this  might  be  the  answer  to  all 
our  troubles,"  Albert's  words  were  piinctuated  with 
sneezes.  As  long  as  he  was  near  the  dog,  he  coxildn't 
stop  sneezing.  Dr.  Crane  thought  it  was  possible 
that  Albert  might  be  allergic  to  dogs.  Albert,  how- 
ever, was  positive  that  was  the  case.  .  .  .  Once  again, 
Albert  felt  defeated  and  worried  about  what  to  say 
when  Toby  and  Lavira  came  to  meet  him.  Dr.  Crane 
sent  Albert  down  to  his  office  and,  when  Toby  and 
Laura  arrived,  he  took  over.  When  Toby  saw  the 
dog,  he  was  overjoyed.  "He's  the  most  wonderful 
dog  I  ever  saw,"  he  enthused.  Then  Dr.  Crane  ex- 
plained about  Albert's  apparent  allergy  to  dogs. 
When  Albert  came  in,  Toby  bravely  told  him  he'd 
give  up  the  puppy,  but  Albert  insisted  that  he  keep 
it — ^he  just  couldn't  stand  to  hurt  Toby  again.  But 
Toby,  a  proud  and  valiant  little  fellow,  replied,  "I 
don't  reaUy  need  a  dog.  I've  done  without  one  for 
a  long  time.  And — well,  which  does  a  fellow  need 
more — a  dog  or  a  father?"  As  Albert  listened, 
amazed  and  a  bit  dumbfounded,  Toby  went  on.  "I've 
been  spending  a  lot  of  time  trying  to  figure  out  what 
I  could  do  for  you  that  you'd  like.  That  we  could  do 
together.  I  mean,  you  got  me  that  swell  glove,  but 
I'm  no  good  at  baseball,  and  I  didn't  want  to  be  a 
disappointment  to  you  in  everything,  and  .  .  .  well, 
I've  been  learning  how  to  play  chess,  and — look, 
Dad,  we  can  give  the  dog  to  somebody  else.  .  .  ." 
As  Albert  tried  to  choke  back  a  happy  sob,  Dr.  Crane 
said,  "There's  no  reason  why  you  should  be  allergic 
to  dogs,  Albert.  Once  we  know  what. your  allergy 
is,  it's  a  pretty  simple  matter  to  desensitize  you.  And 
once  we  do  .  .  .  well,  I  agree  that  a  father's  a  bit  more 
important  than  a  dog.  But  why  shouldn't  Toby  have 
both?"  .  .  .  With  those  words.  Dr.  Crane  brought  to 
a  happy  end  one  more  chapter  of  the  dramatic  book 
of  life  that  forever  vmfolds  at  City  Hospital. 


City  Hospital  is  heard  on  CBS  Radio,  Sat.,  1  P.M.  EST.    Pictured  here  ift  their  original  roles,  left  to  right, 
are  Joseph  Fallon  as  Toby,  Linda  Watkins  as  Laura,  Melville  Ruick  as  Dr.  Crane,  Ted  Osbom  as  Albert  Wexler. 


59 


•  -     ^•'1 


i;  Long  Way  Home 


^m^ 


t 


By  PHIL  LEWIS 


WHEN  Sid  Caesar,  his  wife  Florence  and  their  two 
young  children  moved  into  their  beautiful  new 
home  on  Long  Island  last  summer,  it  was  the  reali- 
zation of  a  dream  which  Sid  and  Florence  had  had  for 
many  years.  The  lovely  sixteen-room  house  overlook- 
ing the  water  is  the  first  home  Sid  has  owned  in  all  his 
thirty-three  years,  and  it  is  the  apple  of  his  eye — as  well 
it  might  be. 


Sid  had  lived  in  no  less  than  seventeen  different  places 
(not  counting  the  hotel  rooms  and  barracks  he  occupied 
while  in  the  Coast  Guard).  Florence  had  shared  nine  of 
them  with  Sid.  And,  during  the  twelve  years  of  their 
marriage,  their  dream  had  always  been  of  a  home  of 
their  own.  Now  they  have  it.  It  is  truly  a  "dream  home" 
in  more  ways  than  one. 

The  new  house  is  a  far  cry   (Continued  on  page  78) 


60 


Caesar's  Hour,  starring  Sid  Caesar,  is  seen  over  NBC-TV,  three  Mondays  out  of  four,  from  8  to  9  P.M.  EST.  The  program  is  sponsored  by 
Helene  Curtis  Industries,  Inc.,  Remington  Electric  Shavers,  and  the  American  Chicle  Company  (for  Dentyne  Chewing  Gum). 


xAiter  many  a  move,  Sid  and  Florence  Caesar  have  found 
the  happy  haven  which  once  existed  only  in  their  dreams 


Pausing  on  the  patio  of  their  new  sixteen-room  house  in  Long  Island,  Florence, 
Shelley,  Rick  and  Sid  Caesar  reflect  the  happiness  and  pride  of  a  family  which, 
for  the  first  time,  is  experiencing  th^e  pleasures  of  having  a  home  all  their  own. 


Tiie  spacious  living  room,  with  its  beautiful  view  of  Manhasset  Bay,  also  provides 
ample  wall  space  for  Sid's  and  Florence's  fine  collection  of  paintings.  Most  im- 
portant, says  Sid,  "It's  the  sort  of  place  where  you're  not  afraid  to  sit  down." 


miiiiiini 

— m 


The  Caesars'  swimming  pool,  behind 
the  house,  is  fenced  in  and  has  a  built- 
in  alarm  system  for  the  children's  safety. 


Golfer's  dream:  Sid  has  his  own  one- 
hole  golf  course — ^with  two  tees — on 
which    he   tries   to    improve    his    game. 


'>. 


V 


,x 


<4 


■ajSv 


*^^ 


I.  Much  has  happened  since  Helen  Trent  and  Gil  Whitney 
first  fell  in  love.  But,  as  they  begin  to  nneet  again,  they 
still  share  the  old  dream  of  nnarriage  and  a  life  together. 


62 


HOPE  has  flirted  with  Helen  Trent  like  a  carefree 
Casanova — leading  her  on  with  a  smile,  then  heart- 
lessly eloping  with  someone  else,  and  returning  to 
tease  her  once  more.  .  .  .  Although  it  has  played  cruel 
tricks  on  her,  hope  is  all  that  has  sustained  Helen  for 
many  years.  Ever  since  her  first  fateful  meeting  with 
Gil  Whitney,  Helen  has  dreamed  that  she  and  Gil 
would  marry  someday.  But,  when  Cynthia  Swanson 
appeared  on  the  scene,  Gil  had  become  ensnared  in  her 
schemes  and  tricked  into  marrying  the  wealthy,  heart- 
less woman.  .  .  .  From  the  begmning,  this  had  been 
a  marriage  in  name  only.  But,  with  a  hatred  and 
venom  which  Helen  could  never  fathom,  Cynthia  re- 
fused to  set  Gil  free  so  that  he  could   marry  Helen. 


Believing  Gil  lost  to  her  forever,  Helen  turned  all  her 
energies  to  her  career  as  top  costume  designer  at  the 
Jeff  Brady  Motion  Picture  Studios.  Still,  she  Cpuld  not 
help  feeling  her  life  was  unfulfilled.  ...  Then,  Helen 
found  her  loneliness  eased  by  the  attentions  of  million- 
aire Brett  Chapman.  With  him,  Helen  discovered  com- 
panionship and  common  interests  and,  finally,  she  and 
Brett  made  plans  to  marry.  .  .  .  But,  shortly  before  the 
intended  wedding,  Helen's  assistant,  Loretta  Cole, 
stepped  between  them,  turning  Brett's  head  and  alien- 
ating him  from  Helen.  Then,  a  few  months  later,  Lor- 
etta was  killed  in  an  accident — a  grim  payment  for  her 
marriage  to  Brett  for  his  money.  Realizing  how  he  had 
been  deceived  by  Loretta,  Brett  turned  again  to  Helen. 


THE  ROMANCE 

OF  HELEN  TRENT 


2.  Cynthia  has  tricked  Gil  into 
nnarriage — now,  out  of  hatred 
of  Helfen,   refuses  to  free   him. 


3.  Helfen  recognizes  Gil's  new 
secretdry,  Fay  Granville,  as  an 
advenfLiress  and  a  rival  for  Gil. 


Helen  Trent  continues 
to  believe  in  love  even  as 
two  selfish  women 
plot  to  destroy  her  dredms 


See  Next  Page- 


zasiaesc^ 


4.  Meanwhile,  millionaire  Brett  Chapman  presses  Helen 
to  forget  Gil  and  marry  him.  But  he  also  confirms  hHelen's 
suspicions  of  Fay,  whom  he  remembers  having  met  before. 


THE  ROMANCE 

OF  HELEN  TRENT 

(Continued) 


.  .  .  But,  after  her  disappointment  with  Brett,  Helen  has 
come  to  feel  that  it  is  Gil  alone  she  really  loves.  Once 
more  Gil  pleads  with  Cynthia  for  a  divorce,  and  once 
more  Cynthia  refuses.  .  .  .  Helen  also  finds  she  has  a 
rival  for  Gil's  affections  in  his  beautiful  and  mysterious 
secretary,  Fay  Granville,  who  has  obviously  set  her 
mind  on  marrying  Gil  herself.  .  .  .  Suddenly,  the  divorce 
Gil  has  sought  all  these  years  is  offered  him  by  his 
wife — on  the  condition  that  he  marry  Fay!  Confused, 
uncertain — knowing  only  that  any  life  would  be  better 
than  the  one  he  shares  with  Cynthia — Gil  turns  toward 
Fay.  .  .  .  Dazzled  by  the  tricks  which  Fay  has  used  be- 
fore to  ruin  other  men,  Gil  accepts  Fay  for  what  she 
seems  to  be.  He  even  gives  her  access  to  his  safe  and 
tells  Fay  that  she  may  use  some  of  the  money  to  cover 
her  expenses.  Finally,  Fay — who  has  been  busily  loot- 
ing the  safe  of  large  sums  of  money — decides  to  pro- 
tect herself  by  precipitating  her  marriage  to  Gil.    Al- 


5.  Suddenly,  Cynthia  agrees  to  divorce  Sil — if  he  will 
marry  Fay!  Sil  is  confused,  but  Fay  announces  the  en- 
gagement and  toasts  Cynthia  in  the  triumph  over  hielen, 


y^:t^:^r 


'.■Jitf^ 


6.  Helen  searches  for  proof  that  will  unmask  Fay.  She 
manages  to  find  damaging  evidence  but  this  is  retrieved 
by  Fay's  brother  and  hielen  is  found  unconscious  by  Brett. 


though  Gil  had  not  planned  to  come  to  a  decision  so 
soon,  he  says  nothing  when  Fay  announces  their  en- 
gagement at  a  party.  .  .  .  Meanwhile,  Helen  has  sus- 
pected that  Fay  is  not  what  she  pretends  to  be.  When 
she  realizes  that  Gil  is  likely  to  go  on  being  deceived, 
she  sets  out  to  prove  her  suspicions.  .  .  .  Helen's  doubts 
are  confirmed  when  Brett  Chapman  tells  her  that  he 
remembers  having  seen  Fay  elsewhere  and  that  she 
had  an  unsavory  reputation.  But  Brett  has  no  proof 
and,  hoping  to  marry  Helen  himself,  he  offers  little  help 
in  her  struggle  to  win  Gil.  .  .  .  Nevertheless,  Helen 
manages  to  find  damaging  evidence  against  Fay,  but 
she  is  stopped  by  Fay's  brother  Darcy,  who  knocks 
her  unconscious.  Helen  now  has  only  the  name  of  the 
man  connected  with  that  evidence,  and  she  begins  to 
search  for  him.  He  turns  out  to  be  one  of  the  many 
victims  Fay  has  fleeced  and,  eager  for  revenge,  he 
agrees  to  testify  against  Fay.  .  .  .  As  a  lawyer,  Gil 
refuses  to  condemn  anyone  without  proof.  But  Helen 
is  hopeful  that  the  meeting  she  plans  between  Fay  and 
her  former  victim  will  be  all  the  proof  anyone  could 
demand.  .  .  .  Wily  and  experienced  as  she  is,  does  Fay 
have  still  another  ruse  with  which  to  deceive  Gil? 
And,  even  if  Helen  succeeds  in  winning  back  Gil's  af- 
fections, can  she  cope  with  Cynthia?  Is  Cynthia  likely 
to  grant  Gil  his  freedom  if  it  means  he  will  marry 
Helen?  .  .  .  Hope  flirts  once  again  with  Helen,  but  this 
is  a  road  that  has  led  her  to  heartbreak  before.  Helen 
wonders  if  she  would  be  wiser  to  forget  Gil  and  give 
Brett  Chapman  the  answer  he  so  obviously  wants  with 
all  his  heart.  How  should  she  respond,  as  hope  beckons 
once  again  in  the  romance  of  Helen  Trent? 


7.  Convinced  of  her  suspicions,  hielen  confronts  Fay.  But 
Gil,  as  a  lawyer,  asks  for  further  proof — and  hielen  won- 
ders whether,  even  if  she  finds  it,  she  can  regain  Gil's  love. 


Pictured  here,  as  heard  on  the  air,  are: 

Helen  Trent Julie  Stevens 

Gil  Whitney David  Gothard 

Cynthia  Swanson  Whitney Andree  Wallace 

Brett  Chapman Bob  Haag 

Fay   Granville Millicent   Brower 

The  Romance  Of  Helen  Trent,  CBS  Radio,  M-F,  12:30  P.M.  EST. 


65 


Hen  3  BRUT  emJdsd! 


At  "39,"  Jack  Benny  shrugs  off  the 
years— and  revels  in  the  delight 
his  first  grandchild  has  brought  him 

By  FREDDA  BALLING 

*s  EVERYBODY  KNOWS,  Jack  Benny  is  only  39.  It's  one 
Za  of  the  enchanting  myths  which  the  Waukegan  wit 
has  encoviraged  about  himself,  and  which  the 
American  public  has  gleefully  accepted.  But  Jack's  self- 
proclaimed  "ceiling  on  birthdays"  does  create  some 
problems  in  statistics — none  greater  than  that  which 
transpired  last  summer,  when  daughter  Joan  Benny 
Baker  became  the  mother  of  a  six-pound,  four-ounce 
baby  boy  named  Michael.  This  somewhat  early  grand- 
fatherhood  fascinated  newswriters  and  amateur  gagsters 
around  the  land. 

It  was  written  that  the  baby  was  bom  with  a  heavy 
head  of  hair  about  the  color  and  consistency  of  Jack's 
"Sunday  toupee"  (he  doesn't  wear  one  any  day  of  the 
week) .  The  infant's  eyes  were  ^aid  to  be  "mountain  lake" 
blue,  and  the  song  that  soothed  him  in  moments  of  dis- 
tress was,  inevitably,  "Love  in  Bloom."  But  principally 
Jack  was  headlined  as  one  of  the  yovmgest  grandparents 
in  show  business — at  the  age  of  39. 


Jack  and  Mary  shared  their  daughter's  secret  with  close 
•friends,  George  Burns  and  Sracie  Allen — who  flew  to  New 
York  with  them  and  helped  wile  Ciway  the  hours  of  waiting. 


SV//^ 


.^^ 


) 


-^t' 


i 


.•r,r  > 


Baby  Michael  calmly  allows  Nurse  Eva  Blumstein  to  show  him  off  to  mother  Joan 
Benny  Baker  and  grandfather  Jack.  But  Jack  was  far  from  calm  as  he  checked  to  see 
If  Michael  also  had  "baby  blue"  eyes,  then  dashed  off  to  buy  junior-size  golf  clubs. 


The  American  public  quickly  took  it  up.  Letters  began 
to  avalanche  upon  the  already  crowded  CBS-Hollywood 
oflBce.  The  mail  co\dd  J3e  divided  roughly  into  three 
■categories:  Boasts  from  younger-than-Benny  grand- 
parents (one  precocious  type  from,  naturally,  Texas,  re- 
ported himself  a  grandfather  at, 28);  boasts  from  legiti- 
mate 39-ers  with  more  than  one  grandchild  (usually 
acquired  in  a  multiple  birth) ;  protests  from  Jack's 
authentic  contemporaries  (he  has  never  made  a  strict 
secret  of  his  actual  61  years) — ^who  complained  that,  if 
he'd  only  stress  the  truth  about  his  age,  they  would  be 
far  and  away  ahead  of  him  in  the  grandparent  sweep- 
stakes. 

A  good  many  of  the  letters  enclosed  snapshots  of  be- 
loved progeny.  At  length,  after  having  spent  a  morning 
in  study  of  letters  and  pictures.  Jack  observed  thought- 
fvdly,  "Mary  and  I  made  just  one  mistake.  We  should 
have  had  a  family  of  six  or  eight.  Just  look  at  these  kids! 


Aren't  they  great?  Wouldn't  you  love  to  have  every 
single  one!"  Jack  added,  taking  on  the  Benny  TV  per- 
sonality, "Of  course,  there's  something  special  about 
Michael  .  .  .  and  I'm  not  saying  it  because  I'm  prejudiced. 
Hmmmmmmmm  .  .  .  it's  true." 

Michael  started  out  being  "something  special"  about 
seven  months  before  he  was  born.  During  one  of  Joan's 
regular  long-distance  phone  calls,  placed  to  her  parents 
two  or  three  times  a  week,  Joan  confided  that  she  had 
her  doctor's  assurance  she  was  going  to  make  Jack  a 
grandfather.  She  added  that  she  wanted  to  keep  it  secret 
as  long  as  possible. 

Jack  and  Mary  agreed  with  their  daughter.  A  secret 
it  would  be. 

The  following  day.  Jack  showed  up  at  HiUcrest  Country 
Club,  as  usual,  for  his  luncheon  date  with  George  Burns 
and  other  members  in  good  standing  at  the  Comedians' 
Table.    George,  grandparent  of  almost  a  year's  seniority 


See  Next  JPage- 


67 


He's  a  GRUT Smddad ! 


(Continued) 


Jack  and  Mary  gave  Joan  and  Seth  Baker  a  wedding  so  lavish 
it  made  headlines.  But  it  was  nothing  to  the  field  day  news- 
men and  gagsters  had  when  Jack  become  a  granddad  at  39! 


The  Jack  Benny  Show,  alternate  Sundays  on  CBS-TV,  7:30  P.M.  EST,  ia 
sponsored. by  American  Tobacco  for  Lucky  Strike  Cigarettes.  Jack  also 
stars  frequently  on   Chrysler's  Shower  Of  Stars,  CBS-TV,  8:30   P.M. 


at  the  time,  "happened"  to  have  a  fistful  of  his  grandson's 
latest  pictures  in  his  wallet,  and  passed  them  aroimd. 

This  was  more  than  mortal  man  coiild  stand.  With 
quiet  dignity,  Jack  announced  that  "by  this  time  next 
year"  he  would  have  some  pictures  of  his  own  to  parade. 
He  added,  however,  that  his  anticipation  was  a  secret  for 
the  time  being.  After  luncheon  he  joined  a  foursome  for 
goK  and  confided  his  news  to  them,  again  with  the  aside 
that  the  information  was  given  in  confidence.  At  the 
nineteenth  hole,  Jack  joined  the  usual  alibi  session  and, 
as  soon  as  he  could  get  a  word  in,  spread  the  tidings — 
requesting,  of  course,  that  there  be  no  broadcasting  of 
the  facts. 

All  in  all,  it  proved  to  be  a  lovely  day,  Always  enthusi- 
astic, Jack  had  a  prize  inspiration  on  his  way  home  and 
stopped  at  an  out-of-the-way  shop  which  is  patronized 
mainly  by  musicians  of  note.  After  proper  deliberation 
and  testing,  he  tucked  his  purchase  under  his  arm  and 
hastened  home  to  Mary's  welcoming  kiss. 

"Hi,  Doll.  Bought  a  present  for  the  expected,"  he  said, 
handing  the  package  to  Mary. 

"Not  already!"  she  moaned,  and  her  expression  took  on 
starch.  There  was  no  real  need  for  her  to  remove  the 
wrappings  and  unfasten  the  case,  but  she  played  out  the 
scene  just  the  same.  Nestled  in  the  velvet  lining  was  a 
quarter-sized  violin. 

"Oh,  Jack!"  said  his  wife,  her  tone  a  compound  of 
exasperation,  amusement  and  intense  affection. 

"Cute,  hvih?"  said  Jack,  very  offhandedly. 

Suspicion  gradually  superseded  all  other  emotions  as 
Mary  studied  the  man  to  whom  she  has  been  married  for 
nearly  twenty-nine  years.  "Jack,  you  didn't  tell  anyone 
at  the  club,  did  you?" 

Jack  said,  "Well  .  .  ."  as  only  he  can  say  it.  After  a 
pause  he  went  on,  "Naturally,  I  had  to  tell  George."  Jack 
explained  that  George  had  been  flashing  pictures  around 
the  luncheon  table,  so  .  .  .  And  then,  out  on  the  golf 
course,  one  of  the  guys  had  said  something  about  his 
daughter's  youngsters,  which  reminded  Jack  .  .  .  Oh,  yes, 
and  then  in  the  locker  room  there  had  been  a  few  fellows 
standing  around.  .  .  . 

"Jack!  What  will  Joanie  think?"  Mary  demanded,  and 
this  time  the  inflection  denoted  shocked  reproof  and 
genuine  annoyance  modified  very  little  by  loving  under- 
standing. 

Jack  took  refuge  in  a  show-business  trick  which  is  his 
and  his  alone,  because — according  to  other  comedians — 
no  one  else  has  the  courage  it  takes  to  put  it  into  effect. 
It  goes  like  this  in  a  theater:  Jack  tells  a  joke  and  then, 
with  a  straight  face — a  face  on  which  cosmic  melancholy 
and  quiet  command  are  mingled — ^he  stares  at  the  audi- 
ence and  waits.  And  he  continues  to  wait,  permitting 
himself  no  more  than  a  patient  sigh.  According  to  show- 
business  experts,  this  leaves  an  audience  with  a  choice: 
To  laugh  or  to  leave  the  theater.     They  always  laugh. 

And  so,  regarding  Mary  with  his  hfe-is-a-bad- 
joke-on-somebody-but-don't-blame-me  expression.  Jack 
waited. 

And  Mary  laughed. 

She  had  no  real  cause  to  fear  betrayal  of  the  secret. 
The  Hillcrest  Country  Club  takes  care  of  its  own.  Not 
one  word  of  the  Baker  expectancy  oozed  out  of  Cali- 
fornia. Not  tmtil  Eastern  columnists  noted  Joan's  chic 
maternity  outfits  did  the  item  appear  in  the  press. 

The  three  Bennys  have  always  been  exceptionally  de- 
voted. During  the  war  years,  when  Jack  was  spending 
every  possible  hour  doing  shows  at  military  installations, 
there   was   a   gag   among   his    (Continued   on   page  80) 


68 


Mama's  Little  Girl 

(Continued  from  page  44) 
for    children    into    the    microphone.    .    .    . 

"What  a  cute  little  girl  you  must  be," 
said  the  early  fan  mail,  then  mostly  from 
grownups.  But,  during  the  next  couple  of 
seasons — when  Robin  was  a  member  of 
Jack  Barry's  Juvenile  Jury  on  radio  and 
TV— the  letters  added:  "What  a  cute,  smart 
little  girl  you  must  be!"  When  Robin  was 
seven — and  made  her  debut  as  Mama's 
pigtailed  younger  daughter,  Dagmar,  over 
CBS-TV— the  fan  mail  got  bigger  and 
bigger.  "What  a  cute,  smart,  pretty  little 
girl  you  are,"  the   letters   started   saying. 

But,  in  this  year  of  1955,  when  both 
Robin  and  Dagmar  had  grown  up  to  cele- 
brate their  thirteenth  birthdays,  there  was 
suddenly  a  marked  change  in  the  mail.  Oh, 
yes,  the  letters  still  said,  "How  cute,  how 
smart,  how  pretty  you  are."  But  some  new 
things  had  been  added.  Now  the  mail  be- 
gan to  come  in  great  bags,  much  of  it  from 
other  teenagers — loads  of  it,  of  course, 
from  the  more  than  forty  Robin  Morgan 
fan  clubs — and  much  of  it  asked  Robin's 
advice.  There  were  such  questions  as:  "Do 
you  think  it's  aU  right  for  girls  our  age  to 
date  boys?  Does  your  mother  let  you  use 
lipstick?  Don't  you  think  we're  old  enough 
to  wear  nylon  stockings  every  day?" 

And  there  were  letters  from  boys,  too. 
Shy,  respectful  little  notes,  as  a  rule,  that 
asked  if  Robin  "just  happened"  to  have  a 
wallet- size  photograph  for  carrying  around 
in  a  boy's  pocket.  Letters  with  the  tenta- 
tive suggestion  that  she  just  might  be 
willing  to  become  a  "pen  pal,"  though 
there  was  small  chance  they  would  ever 
meet  in  person. 

To  Robin,  all  this  seems  very  natural. 
"These  other  kids  look  upon  me  as  their 
friend,  I'm  proud  to  say,"  she  does  say. 
"They  know  that  I,  being  somewhere  near 
their  age,  probably  feel  the  same  way 
about  most  things  as  they  do.  For  in- 
stance, girls  around  my  age  write  me  say- 
ing they  feel  sort  of  'uncomfortable'  about 
having  a  real  evening  date  with  a  boy.  Of 
course,  they  mean  the  formal  kind  of 
date,  where  he  comes  to  call  for  you  and 
take  you  out  without  a  grownup  along.  I 
feel  uncomfortable,  too,  about  such  formal 
dates,  so  I  just  don't  have  any.  I  wouldn't, 
even  if  my  mother  were  to  approve,  which 
she  doesn't — yet. 

"Perhaps  I  act  more  grown-up  than 
some  other  girls  my  age — or  at  least 
people  think  I  do — because  I  have  been  an 
actress  all  my  life  and  have  been  aroixnd 
grown  people  a  great  deal.  But  I  still  re- 
member when  I  was  twelve  going  on 
thirteen,  Emd  was  invited  to  my  first  formal 
teen-age  party  at  a  country  club.  The 
others  were  mostly  two  or  three  years 
older  than  I  was,  and  I  have  to  admit  that 
I  was  ill  at  ease,  although  I  covered  it  up 
well.  Actually,  it  wasn't  vmtil  the  next 
year  that  I  had  got  to  the  point  where  I 
could  be  completely  comfortable  and  en- 
joy myself  at  a  formal  party.  Other  girls 
write  to  me  about  similar  experiences.  We 
may  like  to  feel  grown-up,  but  we  know 
we're  really  not." 

Robin's  young,  pretty  mother  under- 
stands these  things.  "When  Robin  feels 
ready  to  be  herself  when  she  goes  out 
Eilone  with  a  boy — instead  of  with  the 
usual  group  or  with  older  people  along — 
then  I  am  ready  to  have  her  go.  I  want 
her  to  have  a  good  time.  Robin  is  always 
with  other  teenagers  and  does  all  the 
things  that  normal  teenagers  like  to  do. 
I  want  her  to  have  fun.  But  I  have 
watched  too  many  yotmg  girls  pretending 
to  be  something  they  aren't,  in  an  effort 
to  be  popular — trying  to  act  'way  beyond 
their  years   and  experience,   yet  at  heart 


the 


and 


that 


KISSES 

CLINCHES 

SCORCHED 


THE  MOVIE  SCREENS 

From  GARBO  and  VALENTINO  to  MONROE  and  BRANDO 

SCREEN  LOVERS 


presents  a  pictorial  history  of 
Hollywood's  greatest,  most  mem- 
orable romantic  moments  starring 
the  screen's  champion  lovers — 
from  vamp  Theda  Bara  to  whole- 
some Grace  Kelly — from  latin-type 
John  Gilbert  to  boy-next-door-type 
Bob  Wagner. 

You'll  see  the  most  famous  and 
torrid  love  scenes  ever  filmed — 
from  1896  to  1956 


THRILL  to  the  GRETA  GARBO-JOHN 
GILBERT  love  scene  from  "Flesh  and 
the  Devil" 

CRY  with  JANET  GAYNOR  and 
CHARLES  FARRELL  in  "Seventh 
Heaven" 

LAUGH  at  the  first  love  scene  ever 
censored.  The  year  was  1896.  The  pic- 
ture, "The  Kiss" 

SIGH  as  TAB  HUNTER  and  MONA 
FREEMAN  in  "Battle  Cry"  prove  that 
today's  crop  of  stars  are  as  good  at  love 
scenes  as  the  oldtimers 

ADMIRE  swashbuckling  DOUG  FAIR- 
BANKS  sweeping   his  heroine   off   the 


balcony  to  safety 


HISS  the  villain  forcing  his  attentions 
upon  BILLIE  DOVE 

HOWL  at  the  clothes  that  adorn  the 
"ladies  of  the  night" 

HATE  JACK  PALANCE  as  he  terror- 
izes JOAN  CRAWFORD  in  "Sudden 
Fear" 

ENJOY  the  most  spectacular  orgy  ever 
filmed 

RECALL  all  of  your  favorite  movies  in 
this  one  big  roundup 

COLLECT  never-before-published  pic- 
tures for  your  scrapbook 


*PLUS  THE  20  MOST  MEMORABLE  LOVE  SCENES  EVER  FILMED 


all  this  and  more  in 

SCREEN  LOVERS 

AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 

if  newsdealer  is  sold 
out,  use  this  coupon 


I MAIL  COUPON  TODAY 1 

BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE,  Inc.  WG-1255 

205  E.  42nd  St.,  New  York  17,  N.  Y. 

Send   me   postpaid,    a   copy   of   SCREEN 
LOVERS.  I  enclose  50c. 


Name. . . 
Address. 
City.... 


Please  Print 


.state. 


69 


troubled  and  self-conscious.  I  don't  want 
this  to  happen  to  Robin. 

"As  far  as  the  boys  she  knows  are  con- 
cerned," Robin's  mother  emphasizes,  "they 
are  all  boys  we  know  and  like.  If  one 
comes  along  we  don't  feel  satisfied  about, 
he's  out  of  Robin's  little  circle  quickly. 
When  a  boy  comes  to  the  house,  there  are 
such  games  as  Scrabble,  there  is  television 
to  watch,  records  to  play,  the  tape  re- 
corder to  fool  around  with.  Robin  gets  out 
her  ukulele  and  strums  it,  or  she  plays 
the  piano  and  they  sing.  If  she  feels  like 
baking  a  batch  of  peanut-butter  cookies 
(her  favorites),  or  gingerbread  or  a  cake, 
the  boy  often  pitches  in  and  helps.  Robin 
has  no  brothers — she's  an  only  child — but 
we  have  learned  that  boys  like  to  cook, 
too.  when  it's  something  they  like  to  eat. 

"Robin  is  never  shy  with  a  boy  in  a  com- 
fortable setting.  Right  now,  that  means 
home,  or  an  afternoon  neighborhood  movie 
or,  occasionally,  a  theater  matinee.  When 
she  is  ready  to  form  her  own  opinions 
about  boys — as  she  will  have  to,  when  she 
meets  boys  from  families  we  don't  know — 
then  she  will  be  ready  for  more  formal 
dating.  Even  now,  I  find  her  coming  to 
her  own  decisions,  without  my  influencing 
her,  and  so  I  know  she  is  growing  up  emo- 
tionally, little  by  little,  as  her  decisions 
become  more  and  more  mature.  I  only 
hope  that  she  will  always  meet  the  kind 
of  boys  she  knows  now,  especially  when 
she  gets  to  the  age  when  boys  are  im- 
portant to  a  girl.  So  far,  they  are  all  won- 
derful kids — and  that  includes  her  girl 
friends,  as  well." 

Not  all  the  problems  the  mail  brings  to 
Robin  concern  boys  and  dates.  There  are 
other  equally  perplexing  matters.  Young- 
sters write  in  to  ask  about  her  school 
work  and  how  she  manages  to  continue 
her  education  along  with  her  busy  work 
schedule,  when  they  can  hardly  keep  up 
with  their  homework.  Robin  explains  that, 
since  she  graduated  from  eighth  grade  at 
the  Wetter  School  in  Mt.  Vernon,  New 
York — where  she  lived  until  two  years 
ago — she  now  has  a  tutor  for  her  high 
school  work  and  has  to  put  in  a  lot  of 
hours  on  homework,  even  as  other  teen- 
agers do,  working  it  in  between  rehearsals 
and  broadcasts. 

Robin  is  a  junior  in  high  school  this 
year,  studies  all  the  regular  high  school 
subjects,  is  excellent  at  languages  (cur- 
rently, deep  in  French)  and  a  whiz  with 
dialects  (which,  of  course,  isn't  part  of  the 
curriculum) .  Her  latest  bit  is  to  put  her 
mother's  little  black  satin  beret  on  at  a 
rakish  angle  and  talk  English  d  la  Denise 
Darcel.  Or  she  draws  her  face  into  long, 
thin  lines  (the  transformation  is  amazing!) 
and    affects    a    deep-voiced    British    club- 


man's   accent,    with    the    greatest    aplomb. 

For  many  years,  Robin  took  ballet  les- 
sons and  stopped  only  when  she  got  to  the 
point  where  she  was  ready  to  dance  pro- 
fessionally, had  she  wanted  to  make 
dancing  her  career.  On  her  bookcase  now 
is  a  little  golden  ballerina,  the  "Oscar" 
awarded  her  for  being  the  best  in  her 
class.  She  still  practices  on  the  piano, 
hopes  to  have  more  time  for  it  later.  Boys 
and  girls  who  have  seen  her  play,  on  the 
Mama  program,  ask  if  she  really  likes 
practicing,  as  she  seems  to  on  the  show. 
She  has  to  tell  them  she's  no  more  fond 
of  the  repetitious  drill  day  after  day  than 
they  are — but  what  can  anyone  do,  when 
it's  the  only  way  to  learn?  And,  while  she 
doesn't  sing  publicly,  she  does  sing  along 
with  her  narration  on  some  of  her  Co- 
lumbia records.  (Her  newest  one  is 
"Mother  Goose's  Music  Box.") 

Although  she  is  a  teenager  with  wisdom 
even  beyond  her  years,  and  with  a  nor- 
mal desire  to  be  grown  up  and  do  grown- 
up things,  she  has  her  own  ideas  about 
such  things  as  wearing  off-stage  make-up. 
"I  don't  use  lipstick,"  she  says.  "I  don't 
happen  to  like  it  for  myself  at  this  age, 
and  my  mother  doesn't  like  it  for  me.  She 
thinks  there  is  time  enough,  later  on,  and 
a  girl  my  age  shouldn't  need  added  color 
unless  she  is  unhealthy.  Some  girls  use 
make-up  to  cover  up  complexion  troubles, 
but  everyone  agrees  that  a  clear  com- 
plexion comes  from  the  inside,  from  good, 
simple  food,  plenty  of  water  inside  and 
out,  and  enough  sleep  and  fresh  air.  I 
wash  my  face  a  lot  with  soap  and  water 
and  wear  make-up  only  for  my  roles  on 
TV."  Then  she  adds,  "But  I  don't  see  any- 
thing wrong  with  using  a  little  make-up 
by  the  time  you're  fourteen  or  so,  if  you 
use  good  judgment  about  it." 

Robin  disapproves  of  girls  letting  their 
weight  go  up  'way  beyond  what  it  should 
and  then  going  on  faddish  diets.  Her  own 
measurements  are:  Bust,  32;  waist,  20; 
hips,  32.  She's  five  feet,  one-and-a-half 
inches  tall,  and  has  been  getting  above 
the  100  pounds  that  is  normal  for  her,  so 
she  has  been  very  stern  with  herself  to 
nip  off  the  few  extra  pounds  before  they 
get  to  be  too  many.  "I'm  a  nibbler  at 
heart,"  she  explains.  But,  when  her  own 
determination  fails.  Faith  Morgan  reminds 
her  what  a  job  it  is  to  take  off  even  five 
pounds  of  excess  candy,  cake  and  soft 
drinks.  Now,  when  Robin  is  watching  TV 
in  the  early  evening,  or  doing  her  home- 
work, and  is  tempted  to  reach  for  the 
candy  dish  or  the  popcorn  bowl,  she  goes 
to  the  refrigerator  instead  and  cuts  her- 
self a  little  chunk  of  meat  left  over  from 
the  dinner  roast,  or  a  square  of  cheese. 

In  summer,  she  loves  to  swim.  And,  all 


IVue 


'&«»(  Jiffia  »8?™k  iovtl 


now  TO 

en  IIAMIE8 

m0*  c** 


70 


AT  NEWSSTANDS  NOW 

True  Story 

MAGAZINE'S 

$5,000 

FIRST  PRIZE  STORY 


?f 


WOMAN  REDEEMED 

He  was  a  criminal,  he  was  no  good.  In 
her  heart,  she  was  no  longer  his  wife- 
yet  she  risked  her  life  fighting  those  who 
denied  him  justice! 


99 


year  'round,  she  helps  with  household 
chores  when  the  maid  isn't  there — which 
is  equally  slimming,  if  not  as  much  fun. 
She  used  to  ice  skate  when  they  lived  in 
the  suburbs,  but  now  she  uses  most  of  her 
free  time  for  her  appearances  at  benefits 
and  children's  hospitals,  visits  to  veterans' 
wards,  bond  drives  and  other  patriotic 
causes.  She  spent  part  of  her  last  summer's 
vacation  making  films  for  the  United 
States  Treasury's  bond  drive,  doing  one 
series  addressed  to  young  children  and  an- 
other addressed  to  teenagers — and  writing 
all  the  scripts  herself. 

She  brushes  her  long  silky  hair  a  htin- 
dred  times  every  night,  lying  with  her 
head  hanging  back  over  the  edge  of  her 
bed  and  her  feet  pushed  up  against  the 
wall  for  balance.  "It  makes  the  blood  flow 
to  my  head  while  I  brush."  Her  mother 
does  the  shampooing  and  helps  her  dry 
her  hair.  (Letter- writers  often  ask  its 
color — a  sort  of  pale  champagne,  with  red- 
gold  lights.)  Ever  since  Robin  and  Dag- 
mar  graduated  from  pigtails,  they  have 
wanted  to  wear  their  hair  in  a  more 
grown-up  fashion,  but  have  had  to  settle 
for  simple  long  hair  caught  back  by  bar- 
rettes. 

Young  writers  ask  her  about  her  doll 
collection  and  admit  they  still  love  some 
of  their  childhood  dolls.  So  does  Robin. 
Many  of  her  dolls  have  come  from  for- 
eign countries,  brought  back  to  her  from 
vacations  by  "Papa"  Judson  Laire  and 
"Mama"  Peggy  Wood  and  other  friends. 
Peggy  taught  Robin  to  knit,  during  re- 
hearsal waits.  "A  strict  teacher,"  Robin 
says,  "but,  when  you  learn  to  do  a  thing 
right,  she  is  really  proud  of  you.  The 
day  I  did  my  first  good  purling,  she  went 
all  around  the  set  asking,  'Do  you  see  how 
Robin  has  learned  to  purl?'  and  showing- 
off  my  work." 

Teen-aged  girls  ask  Robin  about  her 
clothes,  wonder  if  she  still  likes  the  middy 
blouses  Dagmar  has  worn  for  so  long  on 
the  show.  She  does,  but  now  she  prefers 
more  grown-up  styles,  and  goes  in  for 
such  ensemble  effects  as  coats  that  match 
the  dresses  beneath  them,  gloves  and 
hats  and  bags  that  harmonize.  Now  that 
she  is  almost  fourteen,  Robin  is  getting 
quite  definite  ideas  about  her  own  ward- 
robe and  how  other  girls  her  age  should 
choose  theirs.  "Not  to  follow  anyone  else 
slavishly,  but  to  consider  the  type  and 
size  she  is,  the  kind  of  community  she 
lives  in  and  the  things  she  likes  to  do. 
And  especially  to  feel  comfortable  in  what 
she  wears.  Not  to  be  overdressed  ever, 
and  yet  not  to  be  the  only  one  at  a  party 
who  isn't  a  little  dressed  up."  When  girls 
ask  her  how  she  feels  about  short  hair — 
and  practically  every  letter  begs  her  not  to 
cut  hers — Robin  says  she  loves  it.  Then 
she  goes  on  to  explain  that  being  an  actress 
makes  her  feel  she  is  lucky  to  have  the 
kind  of  hair  that  will  give  variety  to  many 
different  roles  by  allowing  her  to  dress  it 
in  different  ways  as  she  grows  up. 

The  question  of  heels  comes  up  regu- 
larly in  the  mail— whether  they  shovdd  be 
flat  or  high.  Robin  explains  that  she  still 
likes  flats  for  everyday  use,  and  two-inch 
heels  for  dress-up  clothes.  As  for  nylon 
stockings — they,  too,  are  mostly  for  "best." 
And,  for  her,  they  must  be  seamless  "be- 
cause, let's  face  it,  I'm  too  lazy  to  keep 
twisting  them  straight."  She  uses  her  im- 
agination on  her  clothes  as  well  as  in  her 
cooking  (she  never  decorates  a  cake  or 
cookies  the  same  way  twice).  She'll  twist 
a  bright  scarf  through  a  belt,  or  tie  a  bit 
of  ribbon  at  a  neckline,  or  scatter  a  couple 
of  cute  little  pins  on  a  turned-back  cuff. 

At  heart,  Robin  is  a  collector,  and  only 
the  fact  that  she  doesn't  live  in  a  big  place 
holds  her  down!  There's  her  fan  collection. 
"I  think  fans  are  feminine,  and  it  must 
have  been  nice  when  ladies  always  car- 


ried  them  at  parties."  There's  her  animal 
collection,  in  china,  carved  wood,  copper 
and  bronze.  And  her  dolls.  All  are  kept  out 
on  shelves  where  visitors  can  enjoy  them 
and  where  she  can  handle  them  lovingly. 

Her  favorite  collection  is  one  she  saved 
for  and  picked  out  herself,  piece  by  piece — 
although,  later  on,  her  friends  began 
adding  to  it  when  they  realized  it  was 
what  she  wanted  for  birthdays  and  other 
special  occasions.  It  is  arranged  on  a 
lovely  little  table  in  the  living  room  for 
all  to  admire — an  angel  wedding,  in  porce- 
lain. The  white-winged  bride,  the  entire 
wedding  party — even  a  winged  harpist. 
And  the  most  adorable  cupids  to  be  found 
anywhere. 

Citations  and  cups  and  medals  line  a 
wall  of  the  apartment  in  midtown  New 
York  where  she  and  her  mother  Uve. 
(Robin's  father  is  a  major  in  the  Army 
Medical  Corps  and  her  parents  are  di- 
vorced.) Mother  and  daughter  live  well, 
but  not  luxuriously  for  a  little  girl  who 
has  earned  a  big  salary  all  her  life.  She 
is  learning  the  value  of  saving  and  plan- 
ning ahead,  and  she  has  all  she  wants  or 
needs,  at  the  moment,  for  a  happy  child- 
hood. It  was  fun  to  help  her  mother  pick 
the  furnishings  for  the  New  York  apart- 
ment, after  they  decided  to  move  into  the 
city  to  be  nearer  Robin's  work.  She  helped 
design  the  color  scheme  and  do  the  actual 
shopping,  and  the  apartment  expresses  her 
ideas  as  much  as  it  does  her  mother's.  This 
year,  they  decided  to  change  the  colors  a 
little  when  the  apartment  was  redecorated. 
Pink  for  Robin's  room,  a  heart-of-a-rose 
pink  that  sets  off  the  light  woods.  Her 
dolls  are  on  top  of  the  book  shelves;  her 
own  TV  set  is  here;  and  the  card  table  she 
puts  up  when  she  answers  her  fan  mail 
(except  in  summer,  when  she  takes  it  out 
on  the  little  terrace  off  the  living  room). 

Last  year's  living  room  had  cocoa  walls, 


but  this  year  they  are  going  to  be  the 
palest  pink.  Furnishings  are  blond  modern, 
even  to  the  spinet  piano,  with  wrought 
iron,  tile-top  tables  for  accent.  The  rugs 
are  now  charcoal  gray,  instead  of  cocoa. 
Dining  area  and  kitchen  will  be  a  soft  mint 
green. 

Along  one  wall  of  the  dining  area  is  a 
series  of  framed  pictures  of  Robin,  from 
early  baby  photographs  .  .  .  through  her 
modeling  days  as  a  chubby,  endearing 
three-year-old,  her  Queen  of  the  May 
photograph  at  school  in  Mt.  'Vernon,  and 
her  early  Dagmar  days  ...  to  a  brand- 
new  one  which  makes  her  look  really 
thirteen-going-on-fourteen  and  has  caught 
just  the  right  mood  of  this  half-child,  half- 
woman  Robin  of  today. 

Kut  the  child  keeps  cropping  out,  just 
when  you  have  assured  yourself  that 
Robin  is  really  growing  too  fast,  getting 
too  wise  too  soon.  The  little  girl  she  still 
is  crops  out  when  her  mother,  for  in- 
stance, stops  her  if  she  interrupts  some- 
thing she  is  saying.  "Who  is  telling  this 
story,  Robin — you  or  I?"  she  asks.  Robin 
laughs  a  little  with  embarrassment  at  her 
eagerness  to  help  tell  it,  says  "Excuse  me." 
But  then  she  can't  resist  salaaming  three 
times  to  the  floor,  hands  extended  con- 
tritely, and  then  grabbing  her  mother 
around  the  neck  and  kissing  her  to  show 
she  didn't  really  mean  to  be  rude.  At  times 
like  these.  Faith  Morgan  is  apt  to  turn  to 
a  visitor  and  say,  half  smiling  and  half  in 
earnest,  "You  see,  it's  the  mothers  who 
suffer  the  growing  pains,  not  the  teen- 
agers." 

Yet  Robin  is  now  old  enough  to  realize 
that  work  is  terribly  important.  Having 
been  Dagmar  for  six  years — which  is  close 
to  half  her  lifetime  so  far — she  feels  great 
affection  for  this  child  who  is  so  like  her- 
self.  But   she   is   constantly   being   offered 


other  roles  on  radio  and  television.  This 
delights  her,  since  she  loves  doing  a 
variety  of  parts.  The  one  she  has  liked  the 
most  was  the  frightened  schoolgirl  in  the 
Robert  Montgomery  dramatic  show  she 
did  last  spring,  called  "The  Tall  Dark 
Man,"  in  which  her  acting  ran  a  steady 
crescendo  to  stark,  screaming  terror  and 
proved  she  has  a  flair  for  drama  unusual 
in  a  thirteen-year-old.  One  young  ad- 
mirer was  so  carried  away  by  Robin's 
handling  of  the  part  that  she  wrote  it  had 
made  her  "proud  it  was  done  by  a  fellow 
teenager  and  an  American." 

Now  Robin  wants  to  make  a  movie  and 
be  in  a  Broadway  stage  play,  and  the  fact 
that  she  is  still  young  enough  to  wear 
braces  on  her  teeth  doesn't  make  any  of 
this  sound  incongruous.  For  this  is  a 
teenager  who  can  at  one  moment  be 
initiating  a  special  friend  into  her  own 
special  order  of  "Martians"  (with  its  own 
language  invented  by  Robin) — and  the 
next  moment  be  saying  quite  seriously 
that,  when  she  was  "young,"  she  used  to 
have  a  new  crush  every  week,  usually  on 
actors  many  times  her  age  (Clark  Gable, 
as  Rhett  Butler  in  "Gone  with  the  Wind," 
was  one  which  lasted  longer  than  the 
others),  but  now  she  believes  a  girl  should 
be  very  sure  before  she  admits  even  to 
herself  that  she  is  in  love.  She  is  still 
young  enough — and  yet  mature  enough — 
to  laugh  a  little  when  Faith  Morgan  says 
that  she  wants  peace  of  mind  for  Robin, 
that  she  wants  her  to  be  sufficiently  well 
adjusted,  emotionally,  to  be  happy  in  her 
work  and  her  life. 

"Oh,  Mother,"  Robin  says  to  this.  "You 
know  those  are  a  lot  of  long  words.  You 
just  want  me  to  grow  up  gracefully,  and 
not  too  fast."  And  she  winks  at  her  teas- 
ingly. 

Faith  Morgan  winks  back.  "Well,  isn't 
that  exactly  what  I  said?" 


O^^/  Easier,  surer  protection  for  your  most  intimate  marriage  problem 


Tested  by  doctors. .  .provedin  hospital  clinics 


NORFORinS 

VAGINAL  SUPPOSITORIES 


Tested  by  doctors 
Trusted  by  women 


7.  AUllSeptlC  (Protective,  germicidal  action) 
Norforms  are  now  safer  and  surer  than  ever!  A  highly  perfected 
new  formula  releases  its  antiseptic  and  germicidal  ingredients 
right  in  the  vaginal  tract.  The  exclusive  new  base  melts  at  body 
temperature,  forming  a  powerful  protective  film  that  permits 
long-lasting  action.  Will  not  harm  delicate  tissues. 

2.  Deodorant  (Protection  from  odor) 

Norforms  were  tested  in  a  hospital  clinic  and  found  to  be  more 
effective  than  anything  it  had  ever  used.  Norforms  are  powerfully 
deodorant — they  eliminate  (rather  than  cover  up)  embarrassing 
odors,  yet  have  no  "medicine"  or  "disinfectant"  odor  themselves^ 

3,  Convenient  (So  easy  to  use) 

Norforms  are  small  vaginal  suppositories,  so  easy  and  convenient 
to  use.  Just  insert — no  apparatus,  no  mixing  or  measuring.  They're 
greaseless  and  they  keep  in  any  climate.  Your  druggist  has  them 
in  boxes  of  12  and  24.  Also  available  in  Canada. 


Mail  this  coupon  today 


FREE  informative  Norforms  booklet 

Just  mail  this  coupon  to:  Dept.  RT-512 
Norwich  Pharmacal  Company,  Norwich,  N.  Y: 

Please  send  me  the  new  Norforms  booklet,  in  a 
plain  envelope. 


A   NORWICH    PRODUCT 


Name_ 
Street. 
City_ 


_Zone_ 


jState_ 


71 


I 


nside  Radio 

All  Times  Listed  Are  Eastern  Standard  Time. 


Monday  through  Friday 


NBC 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


Alorniiij;   ProjUrams 

8:30 

Local  Program 

8:45 

John  MacVane 

9:00 

Robert  Hurleigh 

Breakfast  Club 

News  Of  America 

9:15 

Easy  Does  It 

9:30  1 

News,  Cecil  Brown 

9:45 

9:35  Easy  Does  It 
(con.) 

10:00  Mary  Margaret 

Cecil  Brown 

My  True  Story 

Arthur  Godfrey  Time 

McBride 

,10:05  Norman 

Vincent  Peale 

10:15  Weekday 

Guest  Time* 

10:25  Whispering 

10:30 

News 
10:35  Johnny 

Streets 

10:45 

Olsen  Show 

When  A  Girl  Marries 

11:00  Weekday 

Story  Time 

Companion— 

Arthur  Godfrey 

Dr.  Mace 

(con.) 

11:15, 

11:25  Holland  Engle 

Paging  The  New 

11:30 

Queen  For  A  Day 

News,    Les   Griffith 
11:35  Albart  Warner 

iVIake  Up  Your  Mmd 

11:45 

Fibber  McGee  & 

Your  Neighbor's 

Howard  Miller  Show 

Molly 

*W3d.,    Faith    In 
Our  Time 

Voice 

Afte 

12:00 

12:15 
12:30 
12:45 

rnoon    Prof$r 

Weekday 

aims 

Noon  News 
12:05    Here's 
Hollywood 

Valentino 
Frank  Farrell 

Wendy  Warren  & 

The  News 
Backstage  Wife 
Helen  Trent 
Our  Gal  Sunday 

1:00 
1:15 
1:30 
1:45 

2:00 
2:15 

2:30 
2.45 

Weekday 

News,  Cedric  Foster 
Luncheon  At  Sardi's 
Letter  To  Lee 
Graham 

Paul  Harvey,   News 
Ted  Malone 

Road   Of  Life 
Ma   Perkins 
Young  Dr.  Malone 
The  Guiding  Light 

Weekday 

News,  Sam  Hayes 
2:05  Luncheon  With 

Lopez 
America's  Front 

Door 

Martin  Block 

Second  Mrs.  Burton 
Perry  Mason 

This   Is  Nora  Drake 
The  Brighter  Day 

3:00  Weekday 

3:15 

3:30  Hotel  For  Pets 

Ruby  Mercer  Show 

Martin    Block    (con.) 

Linkletter's  House 
Party 

Fred  Robbins  Show 

4:00  Right  To  Happiness 
4:15  Stella  Dallas 
4:30   Young  Widder  Brown 
4:45   Pepper  Young's 
Family 

Bruce  &  Dan 

Broadway   Matinee 

Treasury  Band- 
stand 

5:00 
5:15 
5:30 
5:45 

Weekday 

Lone  Ranger 
5:55  Dan'l  Boone 

Bob  And   Ray 
5:55  Cecil  Brown 

Musical  Express 
Bobby  Hammack 
Gloria  Parker 
Vincent  Lopez 

6:00 
6:15 
6:30 
6:45 

7:00 
7:15 

7:30 
7:45 

8:00 
8:15 

8:30 
8:45 


Monday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier,  Man 
On  The  Go 


News  Of  The  World 
One    Man's    Family 


Henry    Taylor 
Boston   Symphony 
Orchestra 


Evening  Proj£ranis 


ABC  Reporter 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


True  Detective 


John  Steele, 
Adventurer 


9:00  Telephone  Hour 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


Band  Of  America 


10:00 
10:15 


10:30 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
News 
10:20  Heart  Of  The 

News 
Stars  In  Action 


News,  Lyie  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Reporters'  Roundup 


Virgil  Pinkley 
Orchestra 

Distinguished  Artists 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 
George  Hicks,  News 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Listen 


Listen 


8:25  News 
Voice  Of  Firestone 


News 
9:05  Listen 


9:25  News 
Listen 


9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 


Martha  Lou  Harp 


Jackson  &  The  News 


Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


My  Son,  Jeep 
Yours  Truly, 

Johnny  Dollar 
Arthur  Godfrey's 

Talent  Scouts 


News 

9:05  Jack  Carson 


Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Tuesday 


6:00 
6:30 

6:45 


7:00 
7:15 
7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 


10:30 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


NBC 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex  Dreier, 

Man  On  The  Go 
News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


People  Are  Funny 
Dragnet 


9:05  NBC  Radio 
Theater 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
News 
10:20  Citizens  In 

Action 
Treasury  Of  Stars 


Evening 

MBS 
Local  Program 


Programs 

ABC 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 
Gabriel    Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Treasury  Agent 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05   Footnotes  To 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
Army  Hour 


Virgil  Pinkley 
Men's  Corner 


Dance  Music 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 
Listen 


Listen 
8:25  News 
Bishop  Sheen 


Listen 


9:25    News 
Listen 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 


Take  Thirty 


CBS 

Jackson  &  The  News 

Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee  Ernie 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
Suspense 


News 

9:05  Jack  Carson 


Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


$64,000  Question 


Wednesday 


Evening    Programs 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 
8:15 
8:30 


9:00 
9:15 
9:30 

9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6.30 
6:45 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex   Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One   Man's  Family 


News 

College  Varieties 

College  Quiz  Bowl 


You  Bet  Your  Life 
— Groucho  Marx 

Truth  Or 

Consequences 

9:55  Travel  Bureau 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 
7:45 


8:00 


8:15 
8:30 


9:00 


9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


6:00 
6:30 
6:45 


Fibber  McGee  & 

Molly 
10:20   This   Is 

Moscow 
Keys  To  The  Capitol 


Thursday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Local  Program 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner   Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Gangbusters 
Public  Prosecutor 


News,  LyIe  Van 
Spotlight  Story 
Family  Theater 


Virgil   Pinkley 
Sounding  Board 


Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Listen 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Bing    Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


Listen 
8:25  News 
Listen 


Listen 

9:25  News 

Listen 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Relaxin'  Time 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


My  Son,  Jeep 
Johnny  Dollar 
FBI  In  Peace  And 
War 


News 

9:05  Jack  Carson 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 

Hall 
9:55  News 


Alex  Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


News 


Great  Gildersleeve 
The  Goon  Show 


News 

9:05  X  Minus  One 


Conversation 


Fibber   McGee   & 

Molly 
News 

10:20  Joseph  Harsch 
Jane  Pickens  Show 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis.  Ir 
Behind  The  Iron 

Curtain 
Gabriel  Heatter 
Eddie  Fisher 


Official   Detective 


Brady  Kaye 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05  Footnotes  to 

History 
Spotlight  Story 
State  Of  The  Nation 


Virgil   Pinkley 
Book  Hunter 
Henry  Jerome  Orch. 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Listen 


Listen 

8:25  News 

Listen 

8:55   News,   Griffith 


Listen 


9:25  News 
Listen 
9:55  News 


News,  Edward  P. 

Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 

Front  &  Center 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Newsmakers 
Presidential  Report 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell  Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


My  Son,  Jeep 

Johnny  Dollar 
Disk  Derby, 


News 

9:05  Jack  Carson       , 

Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music  ' 
Hall 


7:00 
7:15 


7:30 

7:45 


8:00 


8:15 
8:30 


9:00 

9:15 
9:30 
9:45 


10:00 
10:15 
10:30 


Friday 


Three  Star  Extra 


Alex   Dreier, 
Man  On  The  Go 

News  Of  The  World 
One  Man's  Family 


News 

8:05  National  Radio 
Fan  Club 


News 

9:05  Radio  Fan  Club 
(con.) 

9:55  News 


Cavalcade  Of  Sports 
Sports   Digest 


Evening    Programs 

Local  Program 

Bill  Stern,  Sports 


Fulton  Lewis,  Jr. 
Dinner  Date 

Gabriel  Heatter 
In  The  Mood 


Counter-Spy 


City  Editor 


News,  LyIe  Van 
9:05   Football   From 
Orange  Bowl 


Virgil  Pinkley 
Forbes  Report 
London  Studios 


Vandercook,  News 
Quincy  Howe 

Listen 


Listen 


8:25  News 
Listen 


Listen 
Listen 


News,  Morgan 
How  To  Fix  It 
Indoors  Unlimited 


Scoreboard 
10:05  Dance 
Orchestra 


Jackson  &  The  News 
Lowell   Thomas 


Scoreboard 
7:05  Tennessee 

Ernie 
Bing  Crosby 
Edward  R.  Murrow 


My  Son,  Jeep 

Johnny  Dollar 
Godfrey  Digest 


News 

9:05  Jack  Carson 
Bing  Crosby 
Amos  'n'  Andy  Music 
Hall 


Herman  Hickman 
10.05  Dance 
Orchestra 


nside  Radio 


Saturday 


NBC 


Morning   Programs 


MBS 


UC 


CBS 


8:30 

World   News 

Local  Program 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

News 

8:45 

Roundup 

8:35  Doug  Browning 
Show 

9:00 

Farming  Business 

No  School 

News  Of  America 

9:15 

Today 

Farm  News 

9:30 

Monitor 

9:45 

Garden  Gate 

10:00 

Monitor 

No  School 

News 

10:15 

Today  (con.) 

10:05  Galen  Drake 

10:30 

American  Travel 

Moppets  &  Melody 

Show 

10:45 

Guide 

10:55  News 

10:55  News, 
LeSueur 

11:00 

Monitor 

Lucky  Pierre 

News 

11:05  Lady  In  The 

Robert  a.  Lewis 
Show 

11:15 

Circle 

11:30 

Johnny  Desmond 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

11:45 

Show 
11:55  Young  Living 

11:35  All  League 
Clubhouse 

Afternoon   Programs 

12:00  National   Farm   &     jl  Asked  You 
Home  Hour 

12:15 

12:30  Monitor                       Tex  Fletcher 

12:45                                        Wagon  Show 

News 

12:05  Kow  To  Fix  It 
101   Ranch  Boys 
:Van  Voorhis,  News 
12:35  American 
Farmer 

Noon  News 
12:05  Romance 

Gunsmoke 

1:00  Monitor 

1:15i 

1:30 
1:45 


Football-Game  of 
the  Week  from 
Notre   Dame 


Football  City  Hospital 

1:25    News 
Van  Voorhis,  News  JKathy  Godfrey 
1:35  Football  (con.) 


2:00  Monitor 

2:15 

2:30 

2:45 


Football  (con.) 


Football  (con.) 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
2:35   Football  (con.) 


3:00   Monitor 
3:15} 
3:30  I 

3:45 


Football  (con.) 


Football  (con.) 


News 

2:05  Football 
Roundup 


News 

3:05  Football 
Roundup  (con.) 


4:00  Monitor 

Football  (con.) 

Football  (con.) 

Football   Roundup 

4:15 

(con.) 

4:30 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

4:45 

4:35  Football 

S:uu  Monitor 

Teenagers,   U.S.A. 

News 

Football  Roundup 

5:05  Dinner  At  The 

(con.) 

5:15 

Green  Room 

5:30 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

5:45 

5:55  News 

Evei 

6:00 

6:15 
6:30 

6:45 

ning  Progran 

Monitor 

as 

John  T.  Flynn 

World  Traveler 
Report  From 

Washington 
Basil  Heatter 

News 

6:05  Pan-American 

Union 
Sports  Kaleidoscope 

Bob   Edge,  Sports 
Afield 

News 

Sports  Review 
Young  Ideas 

6:55  Joe  Foss,  Sports 

7:00  Monitor 
7:15 

7:30  The  Big  Surprise 
7:45  i 

Pop  The  Question 

Magic  Of  Music, 
Doris  Day 

News 

7:05  At  Ease 

Labor-Management 
Series 

News,  Jackson 
7:05  Juke-Box  Jury 

Top  Hat  Concert 

8:00  Monitor 

8:15 

8:30 

8:45 

Musical  Wheel  Of 

Charm 
Quaker  City  Capers 

News 

8:05  Dance  Party 
Van  Voorhis,  News 
8:35   Dance   Party 
(con.) 

News 

8:05  Country  Style 

9:00 
9:15 

9:30 
9:45 

Monitor 

Hawaii  Calls 
Lombardo  Land 

News 

3:05  Dance  Party 

(con.) 
Van  Voorhis,  News 
9:35   Dance   Party 

(con.) 

News 

9:05  Philadelphia 
Orchestra 

10:00 
10:15 
10:30 

Monitor 

Grand  Ole  Opry 

CBC  Symphony 
Orch. 

News 

10:05  Hotel  Edison 
Van  Voorhis,   News 
10:35  Lawrence Welk 

Henry  Jerome  Orch. 

Sunday 


NBC 


Morning  Programs 


MBS 


ABC 


CBS 


8:30 
8:45 

Monitor 

Light  And  Life  Hour 

Renfro  Valley 
8:55  Galen  Drake 

9:00 
9:15 

9:30 
9:45 

World   News 
Roundup 

Art  Of  Living 

Wings  Of  Healing 
Back  To  God 

News 

9:05  Great  Moments 
Of  Great  Composers 
9:25  Van  Voorhis, 

News 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 

World  News  Roundup 
Sidney  Walton  Show 

Church  Of  The  Air 

10:0U 
10:15 

10:30 
10:45 

National  Radio 
Pulpit 

Monitor 

Radio  Bible  Class 
Voice  Of  Prophecy 

News 

10:05   Message   Of 
Israel 

News 

10:35  College  Cboir 

News 

10:05   Invitation  To 
Learning-Reap- 
praisals 

The  Leading  Question 

11:00 

11:15 

11:30 
11:45 

Monitor 

11:35  New  World 

Frank  And  Ernest 

Christian  Science 

Monitor 
Northwestern 

Reviewing  Stand 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
11:05   Sunday 

Melodies 
Marines   On 

Review 
News 
11:35  Christian   In 

Action 

News 

11:05  E.  Power 
Biggs 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir 

Afternoon  Programs 

12:00 

Monitor 

Marine  Band 

News,   Robert  Trout 
12:05  Washington 
Week 

12:15 

World  Affairs 

12:30  The  Eternal  Light 

News,  Bill  Cunning- 

Van Voorhis,  News 

Les  Elgart  Orch. 

ham 

12:35   The   World 

12:45 

Merry  Mailman 

Tomorrow 

1:00  Monitor 

Basil  Heatter, 

Herald  Of  Truth 

Woolworth  Hour- 

News 

Percy   Faith, 

1:15 

Christian  Science 

Donald    Woods 

1:30 

Lutheran  Hour 

News 

1:35  Pilgrimage 

2:00  The  Catholic  Hour 

Professional  Football 

Dr.  Oral  Roberts 

Symphonette 

2:15 

2:30 

Wings  Of  Healing 

New  York   Philhar- 

2:45 

monic-Symphony 

3:00 

Monitor 

Professional  Football 
(con.) 

News 

3:05  Pan  American 

Symphony  (con.) 

3:15 

Union 

3:30 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

3:45 

3:35   Billy   Graham 

3:55  News 

4:00 

Monitor 

Salute  To  The  Nation 

Old-Fashioned 

On  A  Sunday  After- 

4:15 

Revival  Hour 

noon 

4:30 

Nick  Carter 

4:45 

4:55  Lome  Greene 

5:00 

Monitor 

Adventures  of  Rin 

News 

News 

5:15 

5:05  Your  Radio 

Tin  Tin 

5:05  Church  In  The 

5:05  On  A  Sunday 

Theater 

Home 
5:25  Van  Voorhis, 
News 

Afternoon 

5:30 

Wild  Bill  Hickok 

Greatest  Story  Ever 

News 

5:45 

5:55  News 

Told 

5:35  On  A  Sunday 
Afternoon 

Evening    Programs 


6:00 

Meet  The  Press 

Walter  Winchell 

Monday  Morning 
Headlines 

News 

6:05  Make  Way 

6:15 

Tomorrow's 
Headlines 

6:15  Lifetime  Living 

For  Youth 

6:30 

Monitor 

On  The  Line,  Bob 
Considine 

News 

6:35  Evening  Comes 

Gary    Crosby 

6:45 

All  Star  Sport  Time 

7:00 

Monitor 

Richard  Hayes  Show 

News 

7:05  Showtime 
Revue 

Bergen-McCarthy 
Show 

7:15 

Van  Voorhis,  News 

7:30 

7:35  Valentino 

7:45 

Travel  Talk 

8:00 

Monitor 

West  Point  Band 

American  Town 

Our  Miss  Brooks 

8:15 

Meeting 

8:30 
8:45 

Enchanted  Hour 

Two  For  The  Money 

9:00 

Monitor 

John   Randolph 
Hearst 

News,  Paul  Harvey 

News 

9:05    Music    Hall, 

9:15 

Success  Story 

News,  E.  D.  Canham 

Mitch  Miller 

9:30 

Manion  Forum 

Van  Voorhis,  News 
9:35  Sammy  Kaye 

9:45 

Keep  Healthy 

9:55  News 

9:55  Joiin  Derr, 
Sports 

10:00 

Monitor 

Billy  Graham 

Overseas 
Assignment 

News,  Schorr 
10:05  Face  The  Na- 

10:15 

Joseph  C.   Harsch 

It's   Time 

tion 

10:30 

American  Forum 

Global  Frontiers 

Revival  Time 

Church  Of  The  Air 

See   Xext  Page- 


73 


I  V  Pi'OQi'cini  highlights 

NEW  YORK  CITY  AND  SUBURBS  AND  NEW  HAVEN,  CHANNEL  8,  NOVEMBER  8— DECEMBER   11 


Monday  through  Friday 


7:00  O 
8:00  0 
9:00  O 

o 
o 

9:30  O 
10:00  O 

o 

10:30  O 

o 

up  hi 
11:00  O 

o 

6 

11:15  © 
11:30  O 

o 

11:45  @ 
12:00  O 

o 

0 

12:15  0 
12:30  0 

o 
e 

12:45  0 
1:00  0 

o 

1:30  0 
2:00  0 

o 
o 

2:30  0 

o 

(D 

3:00  0 

o 
o 

0 

3:30  0 

o 

4:00  0 

o 

4:15  0 

o 
e 

4:30  0 

o 


74 


Today— Make  way  for  Gorrowoy 
Captain  Kangaroo— New  baby-sitter 
Skinner  Show— Nice  &  easygoin' 
Herb  Sheldon- Plus  Jo  McCarthy 
Russell's  Corner— Worm  for  winter 
/Morning  Matinee— Hour-long  films 
Garry  Moore — The  joint  jumps 
&  [U  Ding  Dong  School— TV  nursery 
Godfrey  Time— Time  to  live  a  little 
&  |T]  Hollywood  Backstage— Make- 
nts 

Home— With    Arlene    Francis 
Life  With  Elizabeth— A  funny  gal 
Romper  Room— TV  kindergarten 
Janet  Dean,  R.N.— Ella  Raines  stars 
&  [s]  Strike  It  Rich— Hull-hearted  quiz 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  North— Light-hearted 
Beulah— Comedy  with   Louise   Beavers 
Valiant  Lady— Daytime  serial 
Tennessee  Ernie— Pea-pickin'  time 
Johnny  Olsen's  Fun  House 
&  [s]  Love  Of  Life— Doily  serial 
&  [s]  Search  For  Tomorrow— Serial 
Feather  Your  Nest— $$$  Quiz 
Virginia  Graham— A  lively  gal 
&  [s]  The  Guiding  Light— Serial 
Jack  Paar  Show— He's  nimble  &  quick 
One    Is    For    Sheldon— A    nice    guy 
Welcome  Travelers— From  NYC 
Sky's  The  Limit— Quiz  gome 
Robert  Q.  Lewis  Show— Qute! 
Richard  Willis— Grooming  tips 
Maggi  McNeills — For  women  only 
&  [^  Linkletter's  House  Party 
Jinx  Falkenburg— Interviews 
Florian  ZaBach— Fiddle-faddle 
&  U]  The  Big  Pay-Off- Loot-laden 
Matinee  Theater— Teledramas 
Ted  Steele  Show— Tunes  &  talk 
Dione   Lucas— Cooking   delights 
Bob  Crosby  Show— Swings  out 
It  Pays  To  Be  Married— Quiz-type 
Candid  Camera— Fun  with  Funt 
&  [s]  Brighter  Day— Serialized  story 
Way  Of  The  World-Serial 
&  [s]  Secret  Storm— Always  brewin' 
First  Love — Younger  years 
Letter  To  Lee  Graham— Human 
&  H]  On  Your  Account— $$$  Quiz 
Mr.  Sweeney— Chuckles  with  Ruggles 

EARLY   EVENING 

5:00  O  am  Mickey  Mouse  Club-Delightful 
5:30  O  Howdy  Doody— Keeps  kids  quiet 
6:00  0  News  &  Weather— Up-to-date 
7:15  0  Douglas  Edwards  &  The  News 

0  Tex  MeCrary— Gets  around  New  York 
7:30  O  &  U]  Songs-Tony  Martin,  Mon.; 
Dinah  Shore,  Tues.,  Thurs.;   Eddie  Fisher, 
Wed.,  Fri. 

O  Million  Dollar  Movies— "Casanova 
Brown,"  Gary  Cooper,  Nov.  7-13;  "Heart  of 
the  Matter,"  Nov.  14-20;  "Belle  of  the  Yu- 
kon," Randolph  Scott,  Dinah  Shore,  Nov.  21- 
27;  "Woman  in  the  Window,"  Joan  Bennett, 
Edward  G.  Robinson,  Nov.  29-Dec.  4;  "The 
Man  Between,"  James  Mason,  Hildegarde 
Neff,  Dec.  5-11 

LATE    NIGHT 

10:00  O  Million  Dollar  Movies— Repeat  of 

schedule  shown  at  7:30  P.M. 
11:00  0,  O  &  O  News  &  Weather 

(D  Liberace— Wavy-haired  virtuoso 
11:15   0  Late  Show— Feature  films 

O  Steve  Allen— Carbonated  variety 
1:00  O  Night  Time,   New   York-Live  show 
Wed.  through  Sun.,  from   1:00  to  7:00  A.M. 


Monday  P.M^ 


7:30  0  Robin  Hood— Romantic  robbery 

0  The  Lone  Wolf — Louis  Hayward  howls 

8:00  0  Burns  &  Allen— Delirious  duo 

O  Caesar  Presents— Sid  &  cast,  except 
Nov.  14,  Producers'  Showcase,  8:00-9:30 
0  &  [s]  Digest  Drama— True  stories 

8:30  0  Godfrey's  Talent  Scouts— Variety 
0  &  [s]  Voice  Of  Firestone— Fine  music 

9:00  0  I  Love  Lucy— Very  Desi  stufF 

O  The    Medic— Doctors,    Dragnet-style 
0  Dotty  Mack— Variety  &  mimicry 

9:30  0  December  Bride— Lovely,  lively! 
O  Robert  Montgomery  Presents 
0  &  [g]  Medical     Horizons— Factual 
10:00  0  &  [s]  Studio   One— Hour-long   dramas 

^  Eddie  Cantor— Pop-eyed  comedy 
10:30  O  &  [U  Big  Town— Mark  Stevens  Is  big 


Tuesday 


7:30  0  Name  That  Tune— George  DeWitt 
0  Waterfront— Adventure,  Pres  Foster 
0  &  [U  Warner    Bros.    Presents 

8:00  ^  Navy  Log— Exciting  documentaries 
O  Milton  Berle— Nov.  8,  29;  Martha 
Raye— Nov.  15;  Bob  Hope— Nov.  22 

8:30  0  You'll  Never  Get  Rich-Phil  Silvers 
0  &  [|]  Wyatt   Earp— Frontier   marshal 

9:00  0  Meet  Millie— Comedy  series 

O  Jane  Wyman's  Fireside  Theater 
0  &  d]  Make  Room  For  Daddy 

9:30  0  Red  Skelton  Show— Howlarious 

O  Pontiac  &  Circle  Theaters— Hour 
dramas,  alternate  weekly 

O  City  Assignment— Headline  drama 
0  &  [1]  DuPont  Cavalcade  Theater 
10:00  0  &  [s]  $64,000  Question-Hal  March 

O  Ethel  And  Albert— Lynch  &  Bunce 

10:30  0  My  Favorite  Husband— Comedy 

0  Where  Were  You?-Ken  Murray 


Wednesday 


7:30 

0 

0 

O 

8:00 

0 

o 

8:30 

o 

0 

o 

9:00 

0 

O 

o 

9:30 

0 

o 

10:00 

0 

with 

O 

10:30 

O 

Brave  Eagle— Cheyenne  Chief 
The  Big  Fight— Historical  bouts 
&  [§]  Disneyland— Hour  of  fantasy 
&  [s]  Godfrey  &  Friends— Hour  fun 
Screen    Directors    Playhouse 
(&  [U  at  9:30)  Father  Knows  Best 
&  [U  M-G-M  Parade-Half-hour  films 
Movie  Museum— Like  Mary  Pickford 
Millionaire— Stories    about    $$$ 
Kraft  Theater— Superb  teleplays 
&  \&]  Masquerade  Party— Guess  who 
I've  Got  A  Secret— Moore's  mum 
&  [s]  Penny  To  A  Million— $$$  quiz 
&  [s]  U.S.  Steel   Hour— alternates 
20th  Century-Fox  Hour 
This  is  Your  Life— Surprise  bios 
Doug  Fairbanks  Presents— Stories 


Thursday 


7:00  ©  The  Goldbergs— Warm  &  funny 

8:00  0  Bob  Cummings  Show— Farce  frenzy 
O  &  [s]  Groucho  Marx— Wit's  end 
O  Bishop  Fulton  J.  Sheen— Talks 

8:30  0  Climax— Melodrama;  Dec  .1,  Shower 
Of  Stars— Musical 

O  People's    Choice— Jackie    Cooper 

0  Long   John    Silver— Robert    Newton 

O  Stop  The  Music— Bert  Parks  shells  out 

O  Dragnet— Jack  Webb  stars 

©  Wrestling— Live  documentary 

0  &  [k]  Star    Tonight— Filmed    dramas 

9:30  0  Four  Star   Playhouse— On  film 

O  (&  E  at  10:30)  Ford  Theater— Good 
O  &  [k]    Down  You  Go— Dr.  Evans 
10:00  O  &  [s]  Lux  Video  Theater-Hour  long 
10:30  0  "Wanted"— About  real  public  enemies 


9:00 


Friday 


7:30  0  Adventures  Of  Champion— Giddap 

O  &  ll]  Rin   Tin    Tin— About  a    dog 
8:00  0  Mama— Peggy  Wood  charms 

O  Truth  Or  Consequences— Exciting 
O  &  d]  Ozzie    &    Harriet— Fun 
®  I  Search  For— Documentary 
8:30  0  Our  Miss  Brooks— Ardently  Eve 
O  life   of   Riley— Bill    Bendix   stars 
O  &  [3  Crossroads— About  clergymen 
9:00  0  The  Crusader— Exposes  Communists 
O  B'9    Story — About    real    newsmen 
O  &  [s]  Dollar  A   Second— Jan  Murray 
9:30  0  Schlitz   Playhouse— Filmed    stories 
O  Star  Stage— Half-hour  dramas 
0  &  [s]  The  Vise— British   suspense 
(D  Duffy's  Tavern— Gags  on  the  rocks 
10:00  0  The  Line-Up— City  police  in  action 

Q  Boxing — At  Madison  Square  Garden 
10:30  0  Person  To  Person— Ed  Murrow 


Saturday 


6:30  0  The  Lucy  Show— Re-runs 

7:30  0  Beat  The  Clock— Collyer  carries  on 

O  The  Big  Surprise— $100,000  quiz 
8:00  0  &  [s]  Stage   Show— The   Dorseys  & 
June   Taylor   Dancers   plus   name-guest  stars 
O  Perry  Como  Show— Hour  of  variety 
8:30  0  &  [§]  The    Honeymooners— Jackie 

Gleason,  Art  Carney,  Audrey  Meadows 
9:00  0  Two  For  The  Money— $hriner 

O  People  Are  Funny— Linkletter;  Nov. 
26,  9-10:30:   "Dearest   Enemy,"   Anne 
JefFreys,  Robert  Sterling 

O  &  [H  Lawrence   Welk— Bubbly   music 
9:30  0  It's  Always  Jan— Janis  Paige  stars; 
Nov.    19:    Star   Jubilee,    9:30-1  l—"Caine 
Mutiny   Court-Martial" 

O  Durante  Show— Comedy 
10:00  0  Gunsmoke— Thrilling   Western 

O  George    Gobel— Mighty   Mouse! 
10:30  0  Damon    Runyon    Theater— Stories 
O  &  [§]  Your  Hit  Parade— Musical 


Sunday 


3:30  0  Camera   Three— Multi-award  winner 
4:00  O  Hallmark  Playhouse— Alternates 

with  Wide  Wide  World— Travelogue 
4:30  0  Amos  'n'  Andy— Tim  Moore  as 

Kingfish 
5:00  0  Omnibus— 90-minute  variety 
6:30  0  &  [U  You  Are  There-Vivid 
7:00  0  Lassie— Canine  pin-up  queen 
O  It's  A  Great  Life— Great  lafFs 
©  The  Lively  Arts— Two  hours  of  culture 
0  &  m  You  Asked  For  It— Art  Baker 
7:30  0  &  [H  Jack  Benny— Nov.  20,  Dec.  3; 
Private  Secretary- Nov.  13,  27,  Dec.  10 

O  Frontier— Shoot-em-ups;  Dec.  4: 
Spectacular,  starring  Maurice  Chevalier 
0  Famous  Film  Festival— Four-star 
movies  premiere  on  television 
8:00  0  &  d]  Ed  Sullivan  Show— Top  acts 

O  Colgate  Variety  Hour— Comedy 
8:30  d)  Dangerous   Encounter— Jerome 

Thor  stars 
9:00  0  G-E  Theater— Ronald  Reagan,  host 
O  The  A-G  Hour— Live  teleplays 
0  &  d]  Chance  Of  A  Lifetime— Variety 
9:30  0  Alfred   Hitchcock   Presents— Drama 
0  &  d]  Life  Begins  At  80— Lots  of  fun 
10:00  O  Loretta  Young  Show— Stories 

0  &  dl  Break  The  Bank— Bert  Parks 
(^  Studio    57— Half-hour    dramas 
10:30  0  &  dJ  What's  My  Line?— Job  game 
O  Justice— Crime  stories 
O  Mr.  District  Attorney— David  Brian 


new  time . . .  new  station . . . 


alter  Wincneii 
owon 

UTUAL 


Listen  every  Sunday  on  your  local  Mutual  station 

6  pm  EST,  5  pm  CST,  7pm  MST,  6  pm  PST,  sponsored  by  TWA 


75 


Glamour  Is  a  State  of  Mind 


(Continued  from  page  38) 
you're  Marjorie  Gateson,  aren't  you?"  And 
Marjorie,  scarcely  able  to  refrain  from 
kissing  them  on  the  spot,  somehow  man- 
ages a  gracious:  "My  dear,  I'll  never  ^for- 
give you  if  you   stop  bothering  me." 

It  is  not  unusual  that  an  actress  who 
has  starred  in  musical  comedies  and  been 
featured  in  over  a  hundred  movies  should 
find  her  greatest  fame  in  television.  What 
makes  it  unusual  is  that  the  actress  was 
one  of  the  gayest,  most  sophisticated  light 
comediennes  of  the  theater— and  television 
has  type-cast  her  as  a  mother  in  daytime 
drama.  For  three  and  a  half  years,  she 
was  Mother  Barbour  in  One  Man's  Family; 
and  now,  in  The  Secret  Storm,  she  is  Haila 
Stoddard's  mother— or,  more  importantly, 
Peter  Hobbs'  adoring  mother-in-law. 

Describing  her  part,  Marjorie  says: 
"Grace  is  the  smart  social  leader  in  a 
small  town — always  doing  good  deeds. 
She's  kind  of  an  independent  gal,  for 
which  I  rather  like  her.  One  minute,  she's 
deep  in  prayer— the  next,  she's  dancing 
happily  with  her  granddaughter." 

To  many  women  who  follow  the  show 
daily,  Marjorie's  part  means  much  more 
than  that.  Grace  Tyrell  has  come  to 
symbolize  the  Modern  Mother — the  kind 
of  person  they,  too,  would  like  to  be.  A 
charming  woman  who  goes  along  with  her 
age,  no  one  will  ever  remember  her  as 
"Mama" — and  you'd  certainly  never  call 
her  "Ma."  Somehow,  she's  "Mother" — and 
an  individual  in  her  own  right.  Her  duties 
are  no  longer  confined  to  the  home  alone, 
they  extend  to  the  whole  community.  Her 
interests  go  beyond  family  to  encompass 
the  world. 

But  above  all,  Mother  is  ageless.  In  ex- 
perience, she's  as  old  as  eternity,  but  in 
her  zest  for  living  she's  as  young  as  her 
grandchildren.  No  longer  buried  in  the 
kitchen — an  old-fashioned  homebody  who 
doesn't  know  what's  going  on  in  the  world 
— she  bridges  the  gap  between  the  genera- 
tions with  her  intelligent  understanding 
and  her  sympathetic  heart. 

In  appearance,  Mother  is  smart  and 
well-groomed.  A  real  glamour  girl,  with- 
out being  a  Marlene  Dietrich  about  it, 
and  always  chic,  without  being  a  Gloria 
Swanson.  And  many  a  woman,  whether 
she  identifies  herself  with  Grace  Tyrell  or 
not,  watches  The  Secret  Storm  with  special 
interest  to  see  what  Marjorie  Gateson  hap- 
pens to  be  wearing  today. 

Marjorie  never  fails  them.  "As  a  matter 
of  fact,"  she  says,  "I've  got  theories  about 
that.  Most  clothes  are  designed  for  young 
women,  so  that  older  women  must  either 
wear  copies  or  slight  modifications.  But 
an  older  woman  always  looks  younger  by 
going  along  with  her  years  and  wearing 
clothes  that  are  smart  rather  than  frivol- 
ous." 

Marjorie  not  only  wishes  that  designers 
would  be  more  creative  in  the  dresses 
they  design  for  older  women,  but  if  they 
don't  do  something  about  it,  she  will. 

"I  could  do  a  whole  television  program," 
she  says,  "on  that  one  subject  alone!" 

The  program,  if  she  ever  gets  a  chance 
to  do  it,  will  be  more  in  line  with  the  real 
Marjorie    Gateson.    For    while     Marjorie 
may  symbolize  Mother  in  daytime  TV,  in 
private  life  she  has  no  children,  nor  has 
she   ever   been   married.     She   lives   alone 
in  a  midtown  Manhattan  hotel — gay,  busy 
and  useful — so  that  one  can't  help  wonder- 
ing: Which  is  the  greater  role — the  one  on- 
stage or  off?     In  private  life,  Marjorie  is 
not  only  an  inspiration  to  her  friends  but 
T     proof  to   thousands   of  other   women   who 
V     art-  not  wives  and  mothers:   A  single  wo- 
n    man  can  lead  a  life  of  beauty  and  purpose. 
"I  was  born  on  the  seventeenth  of  Jan- 
^g  uary,"  Marjorie  says,  trying  to  explain  how 


she  got  to  be  the  way  she  is.  "That's 
Capricorn — the  goat."  And  then  she 
points  to  the  tiniest  pair  of  feet  in  tele- 
vision as  though  to  prove  her  point.  High- 
heeled  and  petite,  they  don't  look  like 
goat's  feet,  but  they  were  obviously  de- 
signed for  dancing  and  prancing. 

But  Marjorie  shakes  her  head  in  mock 
dismay,  aware  that  a  mere  man  can't  pos- 
sibly understEind. 

"Capricorn's  an  awful  sign  for  a  woman 
to  be  born  under.  It's  only  a  goat's  life. 
You  work  your  whole  life  through,  always 
climbing  a  lot  of  rocks  to  get  to  that 
patch  of  grass  on  the  ledge  above.  Then, 
when  you've  eaten  up  all  that  grass,  you 
have  to  climb  still  higher  to  get  to  the 
patch  of  grass  on  the  next  ledge.  You're 
always   climbing." 

Yet  even  as  she  says  it,  it's  clear:  Mar- 
jorie wouldn't  have  had  it  any  other  way. 
As  for  the  astrology — well,  when  you're 
an  actress  and  so  much  of  your  time  is 
spent  waiting  for  the  miracle  of  the  next 
part,  you  can't  help  looking  about  for  signs. 
So  one  day,  you  go  with  your  girl  friend 
to  have  your  horoscope  read  and — in  spite 
of  yourself — it's  amazing  some  of  the  things 
that  come  out. 

Not  that  Marjorie  takes  it  too  seriously — 
not  with  her  background. 

"I  come  from  an  Episcopal  clergyman 
family,"  she  reminds  you.  "My  grand- 
father was  rector  of  the  Church  of  St. 
Marks,  and  my  brother,  The  Reverend  Dr. 
Wilmot  Gateson,  officiated  at  The  Church 
of  the  Saviour  in  Philadelphia." 

Her  mother,  however,  despite  the  family 
background,  was  hopelessly  stage-struck. 
But  when  Augusta  Virginia  Smith  mar- 
ried Daniel  Gateson,  a  Brooklyn  contrac- 
tor, at  the  age  of  seventeen,  any  notions 
of  going  on  the  stage  were  out  of  the  ques- 
tion. But  that  didn't  keep  her  from  be- 
coming a  dramatic  coach,  as  well  as  a  stu- 
dent of  Browning  and  Shakespeare.  And 
of  her  four  children,  two  were  to  become 
actresses.  One  eventually  gave  up  acting 
to  marry  a  doctor.  The  youngest,  how- 
ever, was  so  busy  climbing  the  grassy 
ledges  of  success  in  the  theater,  she  never 
did  get  around  to  marrying. 

"And  it's  not  that  I've  never  been  asked," 
Marjorie  is  quick  to  interject. 

From  the  very  start,  she  loved  the  the- 
ater, with  a  fervor  that  amounted  to  dedi- 
cation. And  from  the  very  start,  some- 
how, she  knew:  No  woman  can  honestly 
have  two  loves. 

In  Brooklyn,  she  attended  the  Packer 
Collegiate  Institute  and  studied  voice  and 
piano  at  the  Conservatory  of  Music.  By 
today's  standards,  this  can  scarcely  be 
considered  an  adequate  preparation  for 
the  stage.  "But  then,"  as  Marjorie  points 
out,  "everything  is  made  too  easy  today." 

She  has  been  reading  Ethel  Barrymore's 
autobiography  and  is  impressed  by  the 
differences  between  today's  generation  of 
actors  and  yesterday's.  Like  Ethel,  no  one 
ever  told  Marjorie  how  to  act.  They 
"learned  in  the  school  of  hard  work." 
And  like  Ethel,  the  story  of  Marjorie's 
career  has  all  the  glamour  and  excitement 
of  leafing  through  an  old  theatrical  scrap- 
book — wondering     whatever     became     of 


CAMPAIGNS 

(?/)^e ...the  United  way 


yesteryear's  greats. 

Marjorie's  first  job  was  with  Walter 
Damrosch,  who  was  staging  a  Broadway 
musical  called  "The  Dove  of  Peace"  as 
well  as  conducting  symphony  orchestras. 
Her  next  show  was  Abe  Erlanger's  pro- 
duction of  "The  Little  Cafe,"  and  Marjorie 
got  the  job  simply  by  answering  an  ad  for 
a  chorus  girl.  Within  nine  months,  she 
was  taken  from  the  chorus  and  made  un- 
derstudy to  the  three  leading  ladies  in  the 
show. 

And  then  it  happened!  It  wasn't  just  a 
case  of  the  leading  lady  taking  ill  and  the 
understudy  rushing  in  to  take  her  place. 
Three  leading  ladies  fell  ill  on  three  con- 
secutive nights.  Marjorie  played  each  of 
their  parts  so  well  that  Mr.  Erlanger 
raised  her  salary  from  twenty-five  dollars 
a  week  to  an  unheard-of  fifty! 

In  her  third  Broadway  musical,  "Her 
Soldier  Boy,"  Marjorie  was  already  a  feat- 
ured player.  This  show  is  still  remem- 
bered for  the  song  that  goes,  "Pack  Up 
your  troubles  in  your  old  kit  hag  and 
smile,  smile,  smile."  Not  a  bad  theme 
song  for  a  young  actress  who  still  had  a 
long  way  to  climb  in  the  theater.  Mar- 
jorie played  in  the  New  York  production, 
starring  Clifton  Crawford  and  John  Char- 
les Thomas,  and  also  in  the  touring  com- 
pany the  following  season,  starring  Clif- 
ton Crawford.  Then,  back  on  Broadway, 
she  was  featured  in  a  succession  of  mu- 
sical comedies:  "Fancy  Free"  ("with  the 
lovely  Marilyn  Miller"),  "Little  Simplic- 
ity," "Little  Miss  Charity,"  "The  Love 
Letter,"  and  "For  Goodness'  Sake." 

After  scoring  as  the  prima  donna  in 
"Lady  Butterfly,"  she  proved  her  versatil- 
ity by  playing  lead  in  a  straight  comedy, 
"Strange  Bedfellows."  This  was  done  at 
the  insistence  of  producer-director-actor 
Henry  Miller,  who  first  recognized  Mar- 
jorie's possibilities  as  a  dramatic  actress. 
That  he  was  right  is  proven  by  the  stage 
credits  that  followed:  "The  Man  in  Eve- 
ning Clothes,"  starring  Mr.  Miller;  "Oh, 
Ernest";  an  all-star  production  of  Shake- 
speare's "A  Midsummer  Night's  Dream"; 
David  Belasco's  "Hidden";  the  "sophis- 
ticated lead"  opposite  Taylor  Holmes  in 
"The  Great  Necker";  a  featured  role  with 
Otto  Kruger  in  C.  B.  Dillingham's  last 
production,  "As  Good  As  New";  and  Mrs. 
Maurant  in  "Street  Scene."  During  this 
stage  of  her  career,  Marjorie  not  only 
sang  in  vaudeville  but  also  began  her 
long  and  successful  career  in  radio.  By 
the  time  Paramount  signed  her  and  she 
went  to  Holljrwood,  she  had  played  every- 
thing— as  she  says — "but  burlesque  and 
the  circus." 

In  Hollywood,  she  was  to  appear  in 
over  a  himdred  films.  Her  first  was  "The 
Beloved  Bachelor,"  with  Paul  Lukas; 
then  "The  False  Madonna,"  "Street  of 
Women"  and  "First  Lady"— all  with  Kay 
Francis.  Her  biggest  role  was  the  lead 
opposite  George  Arliss  in  "The  King's  Va- 
cation," but  Siere  were  also  good  parts 
in  "Geronimo";  "The  Milky  Way,"  with 
Harold  Lloyd;  "Stablemates,"  with  Mickey 
Rooney;  and  "Private  Number,"  with  Rob- 
ert Taylor  and  Loretta  Young. 

"I  liked  the  life  in  Hollywood,"  she  re- 
calls. "One  could  play  tennis,  listen  to 
good  music,  own  his  own  home.  I  much 
prefer  entertaining  my  friends  at  home." 

Pleasant  as  the  life  was,  however,  Mar- 
jorie left  Hollywood  in  1944  to  go  over- 
seas during  the  war.  Joining  the  USO, 
she  starred  in  a  unit  touring  Italy  with 
a  production  of  "Kiss  and  Tell." 

"It  was  the  greatest  privilege  anyone 
could  have,"  she  says.  "And  the  most 
fun!"  Some  of  the  soldiers  had  never 
seen  a  stage  play,  and  Marjorie's  troupe 


were  the  first  round  avtors  (as  opposed  to 
the  flat  actors  on  motion  pictiire  screens) 
they  had  ever  seen.  It  was  hard  for  Mar- 
jorie  herself  to  go  back  to  being  a  fiat 
actor  again.  After  the  war,  she  toured  the 
West  Coast  in  a  production  of  "Dear  Ruth," 
then  returned  to  Broadway  to  appear  with 
Bobby  Clark  in  a  revival  of  "Sweethearts." 
Since  then,  except  for  "The  Caddy"— a 
Martin  and  Lewis  picture  she  made  two 
years  ago — she  has  concentrated  on  TV. 

And  although  the  theater  was  to  deny 
Marjorie  a  husband,  television  was  to  give 
her  a  family.  First,  it  was  Oiie  Man's 
Family.  Now  it's  the  cast  of  The  Secret 
Storm.  The  characters  on  the  show  are 
very  real  to  her,  and  she  identifies  herself 
with  their  problems.  Her  "daughter"  may 
be  the  viUainess,  but  Marjorie  vmder- 
stands  her  and — 

"Well,  I  was  a  wreck  that  time  I  had  to 
denounce  her,"  she  recalls. 

But  most  of  all,  Marjorie  is  grateful  for 
the  close  feeling  she  has  with  the  rest  of 
the  cast.  "Acting  on  television  is  an  ul- 
cer-making way  of  earning  a  living,"  she 
explains.  "It's  a  constant  opening  night 
with  no  second  night  for  improvements. 
When  it's  done,  it's  done."  The  cast  of  a 
daytime  television  drama  not  only  spend 
a  great  deal  of  time  together,  but  are  "un- 
der such  nervous  tension — all  at  the  same 
time — that  they  can't  help  being  sympa- 
thetic with  one  another." 

But  even  away  from  the  show,  time 
never  hangs  heavy  for  Marjorie.  There's 
too  much  to  do.  Every  summer,  she  tours 
the  "citronella  circuit" — reminding  herself 
as  well  as  her  pubUc  that  she's  still  a 
darned  good  comedienne.  Every  winter, 
she  meets  each  week  with  Actors  Equity — 
she's  been  on  the  Council  for  the  past  nine 
years.  And  every  day,  no  matter  ho'w 
busy  her  schedule,  she  manages  to  visit 
a  widowed  sister  who  is  now  hopelessly  ill 
— and  for  whom  Marjorie  has  assimied 
complete  responsibiUty.  Marjorie  also  has 
a  pet  charity,  the  White  Lily  Orphanage 
in  Korea,  for  which  she  knits  and  collects 
clothing.  Among  the  four  hundred  chil- 
dren housed  in  the  orphanage  that  was 
built  originally  for  one  hundred,  there  is  a 
Uttle  girl  named  Marjorie,  after  their  good 
friend  in  America. 

In  addition,  she  shares  with  other  wom- 
en the  job  of  keeping  house.  Somehow, 
Marjorie  has  taken  a  suite  in  a  midtown 
theatrical  hotel  and  converted  it  into  a 
country  home.  You  don't  see  the  depart- 
ment store  across  the  way,  you  just  see 
the  plants  in  the  window.  And,  relaxing 
in  an  easy  chair  before  the  open  fireplace, 
it  isn't  like  being  in  New  York — it's  like 
being  home.  And  Marjorie  herself  is  like- 
ly to  be  singing  in  her  well-stocked  kitch- 
en, rustling  up  one  of  the  meals  for  which 
she  is  famous  among  her  friends. 

If  she  seems  happier  than  most  women, 
it's  because — as  she  says — "I  have  wonder- 
ful health  and  wonderful  friends."  If  there 
are  any  personal  troubles  of  her  own,  she 
has  long  since  learned  to  pack  them  up  in 
her   old   kit  bag   and  smile,   smile,   smile. 

And,  even  at  night,  when  the  friends  go 
home — Marjorie  is  never  really  alone. 
Hanging  on  the  wall  above  her  bed  is  a 
gilt  statuette  of  St.  Anthony,  whom  she 
long  ago  adopted  as  her  patron  saint  be- 
cause— "Well,  he's  the  one  who  finds  things 
for   you." 

And  what  does  Marjorie  want  Saint  An- 
thony to  find  for  her? 

Without  a  moment's  hesitation,  she  re- 
plies: "Peace  of  mind,  health  for  my  sis- 
ter, lots  of  work,  and — if  I  lose  a  jewel — 
to  find  it  for  me."  She  smiles — a  dazzling 
smile  straight  out  of  musical  comedy. 
"A  jewel  can  mean  anything,  you  know." 

And  the  dazzling  smile,  one  wonders 
•.vhat  it  was  meant  to  convey — a  role  as 
great  as  any  she  ever  had  ...  or  could  it 
mean    a   husband? 


Here's  the  most  gorgeous  pin  up  book 
of  all!  Here's  another  exciting  album  of 
Hollywood  stars  in  captivating  poses, 
prepared  by  the  editors  of  Photoplay 
Magazine.  This  great  new  album  is  more 
glamorous  than  any  of  the  previous 
editions. 

Full-Color  Photographs 

Each  thrilling  photograph  in  Photoplay 
Pinups  is  reproduced  in  full-color.  Each 
photograph  is  a  stunning  picture  of  one 
of  your  favorite  Hollywood  stars.  Each 
color  photograph  is  a  gem — each  picture 
is  so  yummy  that  you  will  have  a  difiBcult 
time  to  decide  which  pictures  to  pin  up 
in  your  room. 

These  breath-taking  pictures  are  printed 
so  that  each  one  can  be  cut  out  for  fram- 
ing or  pinning  up  without  interfering 
with  any  other  picture  in  the  book. 

These  Great  Hollywood 

Stars  in  Stunning 

Pin-Up  Poses 


•  Grace    Kelly 

•  Marilyn    Monroe 

•  Virginia  Mayo 

•  Jeanne   Crain 

•  Mara  Corday 

•  Betty  Grable 

•  Anita    Ekberg 

•  Mitzi   Gaynor 

•  Myrna   Hansen 

•  Debra    Paget 


•  Mamie  Van  Doren 

•  Corinne  Calvet 

•  Margia   Dean 

•  Rhonda    Fleming 

•  Gloria   Gordon 

•  Mara  Lane 

•  Joy   Lansing 

•  Terry   Moore 

•  Rita  Moreno 

•  Kim  Novalt 


Only  35c 

At  Newsstands  Now 

If   newsdealer   is  sold   out,   use  this   coupon 

If  Photoplay  Pinups  are  sold  out  at  your  news- 
stands, you  may  still  obtain  copies  of  this  fas- 
cinating book  by  mailing  the  attached  coupon 
at  once.  Hurry!  Don't  miss  this  gorgeous  array 
of  female  pulchritude.  Mail  coupon,  with  remit- 
tance—today. 


PHOTOPLAY 
PINUPS  No.  5 


For  the  newest  and  most 
glamorous  pin-up  pic- 
tures available  today,  get 
your  copy  of  Photoplay 
Pinups  No.  5 — now. 


1 

PHOTOPLAY  Dept.  WG-1255   j 

205  E.  42  St.,  New  York  17.  N.  Y.         | 

Send  me  postpaid  PHOTOPLAY  PINUPS  No.    j 
5.   I   enclose  35c.  j 

Name I 

(Please    Print)  I  f 

Address I         V 

I         « 

City State j 

'      77 


(Continued  from  page  60) 
from  the  first  home  Sid  knew.  That  was 
the  four-room  apartment  in  Yonkers,  a 
subtu-b  of  New  York  City,  where  Sid's 
parents  were  living  on  September  8,  1922 — 
the  day  that  Sid  made  his  debut  into  the 
world.  That  apartment  was  just  the  first 
of  a  series  of  flats  the  family  lived  in  dur- 
ing Sid's  youth.  When  Sid  was  three,  the 
family  moved  to  a  larger  place  near  by, 
imtil  the  Depression  came  and  they  were 
forced  to  move  out. 

At  that  time,  in  1929,  Sid's  father  was 
running  a  restaurant.  It  was  called  the  St. 
Clair  Lunch,  and  there  was  a  hotel  above 
it.  "That  was  quite  a  place,"  Sid  recalls. 
"For  fifty  cents  a  night,  you  could  get  a 
room  without  a  window.  For  seventy-five 
cents,  the  room  had  a  window  and  a  rope 
tied  to  the  radiator  for  use  as  a  fire  escape." 

When  the  Depression  hit,  the  family  pre- 
empted five  rooms  of  the  hotel  and  moved 
into  those.  (Sid  doesn't  say  whether  or  not 
the  rooms  had  windows.) 

After  five  years  at  the  hotel,  the  family 
lived  in  at  least  three  more  apartments, 
all  very  much  alike.  These  were  the  first 
homes  that  Sid  Caesar  knew.  It  was  in 
these  places  that  he  lived  while  he  went 
to  school — while  he  learned  to  play  the 
saxophone  during  high  school  days — and 
while  he  took  note  of  the  idiosyncrasies  of 
the  patrons  of  his  father's  restaurant, 
memorizing  these  peculiarities  and  imi- 
tating them  for  his  friends. 

Those  saxophone  lessons,  and  his  antics 
portraying  those  unusual  characters,  were 
to  stand  him  in  good  stead  later  on.  The 
music  was  to  introduce  him  to  his  lovely 
wife — and  the  comic  portrayals  were  to 
take  him  to  the  top  of  the  entertainment 
world. 

After  graduation  from  high  school,  in 
1940,  Sid  decided  he  wanted  to  continue 
the  study  of  music.  He  also  wanted  to 
join  the  New  York  local  of  the  musicians' 
union.  But  he  had  to  live  in  New  York  for 
six  months  before  he  could  join,  and  during 
that  time  he  could  not  play  professionally. 
To  support  himself,  he  got  a  job  as  an 
usher  at  the  Capitol  Theater  on  Times 
Square. 

"That  was  quite  a  job,"  Sid  says.  "I 
was  paid  fifteen  dollars  a  week.  "Then  I 
got  a  promotion.  I  was  made  doorman  and 
got  eighteen  dollars  a  week.  I  got  the  job 
because  the  other  doorman  quit  when  it 
got  too  cold. 

"At  that  time,  I  was  living  in  a  room  in 
the  apartment  of  a  Mrs.  Fuchs,  near  Madi- 
son Square  Garden.  It  was  wonderful.  She 
served  breakfast  and  dinner.  For  twenty 
cents,  you  got  a  breakfast  of  orange  juice, 
cereal,  two  eggs  and  bacon,  muffins  and 
coffee.  For  dinner,  you  paid  fifty  cents  and 
got  soup,  meat  course,  dessert  and  coffee. 
I  paid  five  dollars  a  week  for  the  room. 
It  was  quite  a  place!  A  lot  of  musicians 
lived  there." 

During  this  period,  Sid  took  more  music 
lessons.  He  also  played  with  some  top 
name  bands,  including  Charlie  Spivak, 
Claude  Thomhill  and  Shep  Fields. 

But  most  important  to  Sid  was  the  fact 
that  during  this  same  period — in  the  sum- 
mer of  1942,  to  be  exact — he  met  a  girl. 
She  was  a  beautiful  girl,  a  graduate  of 
Hunter  College  in  Manhattan,  named  Flor- 
ence Levy.  She  was  a  counselor  at  a  girls' 
camp  and  Sid  was  playing  with  an  orches- 
tra at  a  near-by  summer  resort.  It  was  a 
fateful  meeting. 

That  November,  Sid  joined  the  Coast 
T  Guard.  He  describes  the  living  quarters 
V  at  the  boot  camp  comically,  but  you  get 
ft  the  feeling  that  it  wasn't  particularly  fun- 
ny at  the  time.  "We  were  living  in  a  reg- 
ular  bungalow  like  the  ones  people  take 


The  Long  Way  Home 

for  the  summer.  It  was  at  Manhattan 
Beach,  just  outside  New  York  City.  There 
were  fifty  guys  in  that  house — and  there 
were  two  bathrooms  to  take  care  of  us  all. 
You  can  imagine  what  it  was  like.  They 
were  private  bathrooms,  of  course,  with 
only  one  of  everything.  And  fifty  guys 
had  to  wash  in  those  two  bathrooms  in 
the  morning  and  be  ready  for  duty  on 
time!" 

In  the  Coast  Guard  Sid  was  assigned  to 
the  company  of  "Tars  and  Spars,"  a  service 
musical  show.  He  was  assigned  as  a  sax- 
ophone player,  of  course.  But  one  day 
during  rehearsals — when  Sid  thought  only 
other  members  of  the  band  were  listening 
— he  did  an  imitation  of  one  of  the  Coast 
Guard  officers.  Then  he  branched  off  into 
some   of  his   other   imitations. 

As  luck  would  have  it.  Max  Liebman, 
the  civilian  director  of  the  show,  saw  and 
heard  the  fun  and  put  Sid  into  the  show 
as  a  comedian.  That  was  the  start  of 
Sid's  rise  to  fame. 

The  following  year,  1943,  Sid  and  Flor- 
ence were  married.  They  couldn't  have 
too  much  time  together,  of  course,  be- 
cause of  Sid's  duties  in  the  service.  But, 
whenever  Sid  could  get  liberty,  he  spent 
the  time  with  Florence.  And  Florence 
went  with  the   company  to  Palm   Beach, 


to  live  by 


Worship  with  them  this  week 


where  rehearsals  were  being  held,  and 
lived  in  hotels  while  Sid  was  barracked 
near  by. 

Then  came  two  years  of  living  in  trunks. 
The  show  was  on  the  road,  traveling  all 
over  the  United  States.  The  newlyweds 
lived  in  hotels  and  rooming  houses,  mak- 
ing do  with  whatever  came  to  hand,  but 
being  together,  as  they  felt  a  husband  and 
wife  should  be. 

At  the  end  of  1945,  Sid  was  discharged 
from  the  service.  And,  because  "Tars  and 
Spars"  had  been  made  into  a  movie  and 
Sid  had  been  liked  in  the  movie,  he  had 
a  film  contract.  Sid  and  Florence  were 
fated  to  live  in  a  series  of  places  in  Holly- 
wood while  he  waited  to  fulfill  that  con- 
tract. 

At  first,  they  lived  with  the  producer 
Sid  was  working  for.  It  was  a  beautiful 
house  in  Beverly  Hills,  with  a  swimming 
pool  and  all  the  latest  of  everything.  Then 
the  pair  moved  into  a  shabby  single  room 
on    La    Cienega    Boulevajd,    with    a    hot 


plate  to  cook  on  and  dishes  being  washed 
in  the  bathroom  basin.  Two  months  lat- 
er, the  assistant  producer  took  pity  on 
them  and  invited  them  to  share  his  house, 
another  mansion  in  Beverly  Hills,  com- 
plete with  swimming  pool. 

"That  was  something,"  Sid  comments. 
"There  we  went  from  riches — to  rags — 
to  riches — all  in  a  period  of  three  months. 
A  little  unusual,  to  say  the  least." 

Later,  they  had  a  small  flat  in  Hollywood 
and  spent  another  year  and  a  half  there. 
But,  all  this  time,  they  had  not  had  an 
actual  home  of  their  own,  these  two  young 
people  who  were  starting  married  life.  It 
had  all  been  a  series  of  places  in  which 
nothing  but  their  clothes  belonged  to  them. 
It  wasn't  a  particularly  auspicious  start 
for  married  life,  and  it  didn't  make  for 
great  contentment. 

Back  in  New  York,  in  1946,  Sid  and 
Florence  lived  in  a  swank  hotel  where 
many  Hollywood  personalities  stay.  Then 
a  sublet  apartment  in  West  68th  Street 
took  them  in.  It  was  there  that  Sid  first 
learned  he  was  to  become  a  father — and 
it  was  in  the  next  flat  they  lived  in,  on 
West  58th  Street,  that  Michele  was  born, 
on  July  2,  1947. 

"Then  came  our  first  real  apartment," 
Sid  will  tell  you.  "It  was  in  the  Walden 
Apartments  in  Forest  Hills.  We  had  four 
and  a  half  rooms  and  the  furniture  was 
our  own.  It  was  a  big  thrill  to  sit  on  a 
chair  and  know  that  it  belonged  to  us, 
that  it  wasn't  somebody  else's.  I  remem- 
ber giving  a  New  Year's  party  there.  We 
didn't  have  much  furniture.  But,  boy, 
were  we  proud  that  what  was  there  was 
all  ours!  That  really  meant  something  to 
us." 

They  lived  there  for  two  and  a  half 
years,  Sid  and  Florence  and  baby  Michele. 
During  this  time,  Sid  was  becoming  more 
and  more  popular  on  TV.  In  the  year  that 
they  moved  into  that  apartment,  Sid  ap- 
peared on  Broadway  Revue — and  the  next 
year  he  and  Imogene  Coca  started  the 
fabulously  successfxil  Your  Show  Of 
Shows  for  Max  Liebman,  who  had  dis- 
covered Sid  in  "Tars  and  Spars."  Those 
years  at  the  Walden  Apartraients  were  real- 
ly great  ones  for  Sid  and  Florence  Caesar. 

But,  in  1951,  the  family  moved  into  New 
York  City,  to  an  eight-room  place  on 
Park  Avenue.  This  was  destined  to  be 
their  last  "apartment,"  and  it  was  there 
that  their  second  child,  Richard,  was  bom, 
on  February  18,  1952.  They  were  also 
living  there  when  Sid  started  his  own 
show,  Caesar's  Hour,  which  became  tre- 
mendously successful. 

It  was  in  February  of  this  year  that  Sid 
and  Florence  made  the  great  decision. 
They  wanted  a  house.  They  were  tired 
of  living  in  apartments,  where  they  were 
limited  in  the  things  they  could  do.  They 
wanted  a  place  of  their  own — one  where 
they  could  tear  out  a  wall  or  make  other 
changes  if  they  wanted  to — one  where 
they  were  free.  Also,  they  wanted  more 
room  for  the  growing  children.  Yes, 
they  wanted  a  house  of  their  own,  their 
first    real,    honest-to-goodness    home. 

They  started  looking.  They  looked  at 
a  number  of  places,  but  each  had  some- 
thing wrong  with  it.  "One  place  we 
looked  at,"  Sid  reports,  "had  a  room  com- 
pletely finished  in  leather.  The  ceiling, 
the  floor  and  all  the  walls  were  finished 
in  hand-tooled  leather."  That  sounds 
fine — but,  as  Sid  adds  softly:  "You  know, 
I  don't  like  leather." 

The  couple  were  just  about  determined 
to  buy  some  property  and  build  their  own 
home  when  they  saw  the  one  they  finally 
bought.  "It's  funny,"  Sid  says,  "but  that 
place  just  hit  us  right    We  knew  it  was 


the  right  one.  You  know  how  it  is,  you 
just  know.     That  was  the  one." 

They  saw  it  in  the  latter  part  of  April. 
It  was  unfinished  in  the  interior,  although 
people  were  Uving  in  it,  and  the  grounds 
had  not  been  landscaped.  When  Sid  and 
Florence  decided  they  wanted  it,  they 
wanted  it  in  a  hurry,  with  as  little  delay 
as  possible. 

Sid  paid  the  people  who  were  living  in 
it  a  Little  extra  to  move  out  as  soon  as  they 
could,  and  he  extracted  a  promise  from 
his  contractor  to  have  the  house  ready  for 
the  family  by  July  first — an  almost  im- 
possible job.  But  the  Caesars  moved  in 
on  July  first,  completely  happy  with  their 
living  arrangements,  for  the  first  time  in 
their  married  life. 

The  house  is  large  and  has  many  lovely 
features.  It  is  at  Kings  Point  on  Long 
Island,  overlooking  the  water,  and  sits  on 
about  three  acres  of  beautifully  finished 
grounds.  There  are  sixteen  lovely  rooms, 
all  decorated  in  a  happy  combination  of 
traditional  and  modern  furniture  that 
makes  for  gracious  and  comfortable  living. 
"It's  the  sort  of  place,"  Sid  sums  up, 
"where   you're  not  afraid  to   sit  down." 

One  of  the  striking  features  inside  the 
home  is  the  living  room.  On  the  side 
which  overlooks  Manhasset  Bay,  there  is  a 
wall  of  windows  thirty  feet  tall.  The  ceil- 
ing slopes  down  from  those  windows  to 
the  wall  on  the  other  side — which  is  elev- 
en feet  high.  The  room  itself  is  fifty  by 
twenty   feet. 

Outside,  there  is  the  swimming  pool 
which  Sid  had  built.  One  imusual  but 
very  practical  feature  here  is  the  alarm, 
which  can  be  tximed  on  when  no  one  is  in 
the  pool — and  which  rings  when  anything 
falls  in  and  displaces  so  much  as  five 
pounds  of  water!  The  alarm  is  to  protect 
the  children,  of  course.  There  is  a  fence 
around  the  pool,  too.  Another  safeguard 
for  the  children  is  a  row  of  small  trees 
planted  along  the  low  wall  of  the  terrace, 
just  in  case  one  of  the  children  falls  off 
the  wall — the  young,  resilient  trees  will 
break  the  fall. 

On  the  Caesars'  well-kept  grounds  there 
is  also  a  dock,  where  Sid  plans  eventually 
to  keep  a  boat,  and  a  golf  course  of  one 
hole  and  two  tees,  designed  by  a  profes- 
sional to  help  Sid  with  his  game.  There  is 
a  steam  room  under  the  terrace  for  Sid, 
and  cabinets  for  his  collection  of  guns — 
which  is  quite  large  and  comprehensive. 
There  are  two  spacious  porches  and  a  love- 
ly patio.  There  is  an  office  in  the  house, 
too. 

The  house  itself  is  entirely  air  condi- 
tioned, and  offers  a  great  deal  of  wall 
space  for  the  fine  collection  of  pictures 
which  Sid  and  Florence  have  amassed 
over  the  years  and  which  now  can  be  dis- 
played to  advantage  for  the  first  time. 

While  all  of  these  things  are  important 
to  the  whole  family,  the  most  important 
thing  to  both  Sid  and  Florence  is  that  the 
house  is  theirs,  all  theirs.  There  is  no 
more  worrying  about  the  furniture,  mak- 
ing sure  that  someone  doesn't  put  a  scratch 
on  it.  There  is  no  more  "making  do" 
with  something,  just  because  they  can't 
change   it. 

This  is  their  house,  and  it  is  their  home 
—the  home  that  they  have  dreamed  of, 
over  all  the  long  years  they  lived  in  rented 
rooms,  in  furnished  apartments,  in  other 
people's  homes. 

The  Sid  Caesars  have  come  home  at  last. 
It  is  the  culmination  of  a  dream,  the  ful- 
fillment of  a  promise,  the  realization  of  an 
ideal  that  started  for  Sid  as  a  child  in 
Yonkers,  and  for  Florence  on  the  day  she 
married  Sid  "for  better  or  worse." 

It  was  a  long  way  home,  but  the  jour- 
ney's end  has  been  rewarding  beyond  all 
their  dreams. 


OPPORTUNITIES 

FOR  EVERYBODY 

Publisher's  Classified   Department  (Trademark) 


For  classified  advertising  rafes,  write  to  William  R.  Stewart,  9  South  Clinton  Street,  Chicago  6  (Dec-Worn)  5 


OF  INTEREST  TO  WOMEN 

MONEY-MAKING  OPPORTUNITIES 

BIG  DRESS  SALE— 20  Dresses  for  $3.50.  Assorted  Silk, 
Wool,  Cotton,  Rayon.  Send  $1.00  deposit,  dress  size.  Mail- 
Mart,  199-W  Sackett,  Brooklyn  31,  New  York. 
$15  THOUSAND  TYPEWRITING  Lists.  Paid  in  advance. 

GROW  MUSHROOMS,  CELLAR,  Shed,  Spare,  full  time, 
year  round.  We  pay  $3.50  lb.  We  paid  Babbitt  $4165.00  in  few 
weeks.  Free  Book.  Washington  Mushroom  Ind.,  DepL  164, 
2954  Admiral  Way,  Seattle  6,  Wash. 

Excitingly   new,   different   opportunity!    Particulars  and   $1 
Instruction,  Freel  T.  Economy,  Rowley,  Mass. 

FREE!  "TALENT  APTITUDE  Test."  Learn  acting  at  home 

DRESSES,  24c;  SHOES,  39c;  men's  suits,  $4.95;  trousers, 
$1.20.  Better  used  clothing.  Free  catalog.  Transworld,  164-A 
Christopher,  Brooklyn  12,  N.Y. 

$50.00  THOUSAND  POSSIBLE,  Preparing  Envelopes,  Home 
Spare  time.  (Instructions  $1 .00  Refundable).  Fisher's  Products, 
1044  Fernhill,  Detroit  3,  Mich. 

EARN  $40  WEEKLY  sewing  Christmas  Stockings,  Babywear. 
No    canvassing!     Enclose    stamped,    addressed    envelope. 
Christmas  Stockings,  Warsaw,  Indiana. 
MAKE  MONEY  CLIPPING  Wanted  Items  from  your  News- 
paper   for     Publishers.     Newscraft    Publishing    Company, 
PW-983-E.  Main,  Columbus  5,  Ohio. 

emy,  5880-P  Hollywood  Blvd.,  Hollywood  28,  Calif. 
60%    PROFIT    COSMETICS.    $25    day    up.    Hire    others. 
Samples,   details.   Studio  Girl-Hollywood,    Glendale,   Calif. 
Dept.  P-125b. 

EARN  CASH  WEEKLY  mailing  circulars  for  advertisers. 
Complete  instructions — 25c.  Siwaslian,  4317-F  Gleane,  Elm- 
hurst  73,  N.Y. 

STUFFING— MAILING  ENVELOPES.  Our  instructions  tell 
how.    Dept.    G-12,    Education    Publishers,   4043   St.   Clair, 
Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

EARN   AT  HOME— we  help  you.  Free  details.   Maxwell, 
DepL  3-11,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

HOMEWORKERS    NEEDED!    GUARANTEED    Pay.    No 
selling.  Everything  Furnished.  Wallace,  Box  3-W,  Boston  22, 
Massachusetts. 

$25  WEEKLY   POSSIBLE,   sparetime,   preparing   mail  for 
advertisers.  Temple  Company,  Muncie  2,  Indiana. 

MAKE  SPARE  TIME  money  preparing  and  mailing  sales 
literature.  Adams  Surveys,  3513C  Sunset  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles 
26,  California. 

ENVELOPE  PREPARING— EXTRA  income  projects.   Bro- 
chure "$50  Weekly  Possible" — free.  Maxwell,  Dept.  2-11, 
Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 
SEW  OUR  READY  cut  aprons  at  home,  spare  time.  Easy, 

Profitable.  Hanky  Aprons,  Ft.  Smith  3,  Ark. 

GUARANTEED  HOMEWORK!  IMMEDIATE  Commissions! 

PROFITABLE     HOME     BUSINESS.     Make     Fast-Selling 

chenille    monkey   trees.    Literature    free.    Velva,    Bohemia 

32,  N.Y. 

EARN  SPARETIME  MONEY  domg  mailmg  work  at  home. 

Kentco,  Patterson  Block,  Muncie2,  Indiana. 

EARN   SPARE  TIME   Cash   mailing   advertising  literature. 

Everything  Furnished!  Hirsch,  1301 -C  Hoe,  New  York  City  59. 

$35  WEEKLY  PREPARING  envelopes.  Instructions  $1.  Re- 
fundable. Adservice,  Spring  Valley  151,  New  York. 

EXTRA    MONEY    PREPARING,    mailing    postcards.   Gull, 
2419  Thomas,  Chicago  22,  Illinois. 

Glenway,  5713  Euclid,  Cleveland  3,  Ohio. 

MAKE  YOUR  TYPEWRITER   Earn   Money.  Send  $1.00. 

WHOLESALE  CATALOG— 25c.  Pictures  $75,000  Merchan- 
dise. Worldwide,  Box  12-M12,  New  York  City  60. 

Hughes,  7004  Diversey,  Chicago  35. 

LOANS  BY  MAIL 

FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

BORROW  $50  TO  $500  Employed  men  and  women  over  25 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED!  Earn  extra  cash  makmg  readi- 
cut  ties,  experience  unnecessary.  No  selling.  We  instruct 
Jud-San,  518  E.  105,  Dept.  L-1,  Cleveland  8,  Ohio. 
BEAUTY  DEMONSTRATORS:  UP  to  $5  hour  demonstrating 
Famous    Hollywood    Cosmetics,    your    neighborhood.    Free 
Samples  and  details  supplied.  Write  Studio-Girl,  DepL  P-125, 
Glendale,  Calif. 

eligible.  Confidential— no  co-signers — no  inquiries  of  employers 
or  friends.  Repay  in  monthly  payments  to  fit  your  income. 
Supervised  by  State  of  Nebraska.  Loan  application  sent  free 
in   plain   envelope.  Give  occupation.  American   Loan   Plan, 
City  National  BIdg.,  DepL  WD-12,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 

PERSONAL 

EARN  AT  HOME  with  assignment  we  send.  S20-$50  weekly 

possible.  Other  self  employment  offers  listed.  Free  details. 

Maxwell,  Dept.  1-11,  Cleveland  14,  Ohio. 

$2  00  HOURLY  POSSIBLE  doing  light  assembly  work  at 

home.   Experience  unnecessary.   Crown   Industries,  7159-B 

Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles  36,  Calif. 

Earn  extra  money— Our  instructions  tell  how.  A.  B. 

Dunbar,  Dept.  G12,  4130  Mark  Terrace,  Cleveland  28,  Ohio. 

HOME  WORKERS.   MAKE  hand-made  moccasins.  Good 

pay.    Experience   unnecessary.   California   Handicrafts,    Los 

Angeles  46,  California. 

BORROW  BY  MAIL.  Loans  $50  to  $600  to  employed  men  and 

women.  Easy,  quick.  Completely  confidential.  No  Endorsers. 

Repay  in  convenient  monthly  payments.  Details  free  in  plain 

envelope.  Give  occupation.  State  Finance  Co.,  323  Securities 

BIdg.,  DepL  M-69,  Omaha  2,  Nebraska. 

ECZEMA  RASH?  DISCOURAGED?  Moz-e  brings  results! 

Trial  Offer.  Write  to:  Moz-e,  1644-C  Compton,  Cleveland  18, 

Ohio. 

PSORIASIS  VICTIMS;  HOPELESS?  New  Discovery!  Free 

Trial  Offer.  Write  Pixacol,  Box  3583-C,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

FASCINATING  PIECE  WORK  at  Homel  No  Selling!  We 

BUSINESS  OPPORTUNITIES 

pav  you!  Truart,  Box  438,  Pasadena,  California. 

ENJOY  EXTRA  INCOtVIE  sewing  Baby  Shoes.  Details  So. 

Thompson's,  Loganville  2,  Wisconsin. 

WOMEN!  SEW  READY-Cut  Neckties  at  Home.  No  Experi- 
ence Necessary.  No  Selling.  No  Machine  Needed.  Details 
Free.  Neckwear  Supply,  P.O.  Box  2066-P,  Inglewood  4,  Calif. 

$30.00    WEEKLY    MAKING    Roses.    Easy.    Write    Studio 
Company,  Greenville  7,  Penna. 

$70  WEEKLY— HOME,  spare  time.  Simplified  mail  book- 
keeping.  Immediate  income— easy!  Auditax,  34757CZ,  Los 

WORK  AT  HOME.  Immediate  Openings.  Part-time,  full- 
time.  All  ages.  Write  Dept.  13,  Webster-Kerr,  120  Elm  Street, 
Orange,  N.J. 

Angeles  34. 

$200  WEEKLY  CLEANING   Venetian    Blinds.   Free   book. 

Burtt,  2434BR,  Wichita  13,  Kansas. 

EDUCATIONAL  OPPORTUNITIES 

BUY  WHOLESALE,  25,000  Items.  Catalog  25c.  Matthews, 
1472-K3  Broadway,  New  York  City  36. 

ARTIFICIAL  EYES 

COMPLETE  YOUR  HIGH  School  at  home  in  spare  time  with 
58-year-old  school.  Texts  furnished.  No  classes.  Diploma. 
Information    booklet   free.    American    School,    Dept.    X974, 
Drexel  at  58th,  Chicago  37,  Illinois. 

ARTIFICIAL  HUMAN  EYES— Assortment  mailed  you  from 
world's  largest,  finest  selection  imported  glass  and  all-plastic 
unbreakable  eyes.  Write  for  free  booklet  and   color  charL 
Established  1906.  Denver  Optic  Company,  1163  University 
BIdg.,  Denver  2,  Colorado. 

MALE  &  FEMALE  HELP  WANTED 

HIGH  SCHOOL— NO  Classes.  Study  at  home.  Spare  Time. 
Diploma  awarded.  Write  for  Free  Catalog  HCH-29,  Wayne 
School.  2527  Sheffield,  Chicago  14,  III. 
HIGH   SCHOOL  DIPLOMA  at  home.  Licensed  teachers. 
Aoproved  materials.  Southern  States  Academy,  Box  144W, 
Station  E,  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

EARN  EXTRA  MONEY  selling  Advertising  Book  Matches. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Free  sample  kit  furnished.  Matchcorp.  Dept.  WP-20,  Chicago 
32,  Illinois. 

FREE  BOOK  ON  Arthritis,  Rheumatism  explains  specialized 
system  on  non-surgical,  non-medical  treatment.  Write  Ball 
Clinic,  Dept.  750,  Excelsior  Springs,  Missouri. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

"FOG-STOP"  WINDSHIELD  CLOTH.   Instantly  removes 

WORK  AT  HOME 

blurry  Mist,  Frost,  Sleet,  Snow.  Stops  windshield  fogging. 
Samples  sent  on  trial.  Kristee  149,  Akron,  Ohio. 

GOOD    PAY,    MAKING    scented    Orchids.    Free    sample. 
Boycan,  Sharon  22,  Penna. 

HEALTH  &  MEDICAL  SERVICE 

HOME  SEWERS  WANTED 

FREE  BOOK— PILES,  Fistula,  Colon-Stomach,  associated 
conditions.  Newest  scientific  procedures.  Thornton  &  Minor 

SEW  BABY  SHOES  at  home.  No  canvassing.  $40.00  weekly 

possible.  Write:  Tiny-Tot,  Gailipolis  19,  Ohio. 

SEW?  HOME  SEWERS  needed.  No  charge  for  materials. 

Hospital,  Suite  C-1213,  Kansas  City  9,  Mo. 
DO-IT-YOURSELF 

Adco,  Bastrop,  Louisiana. 

INSTRUaiON 

LEARN  ART  METALCRAFT  and  jewelry  making.  Complete, 
inexpensive,  home  training  course  now  available.  Special  tools 

"DANCING     SELFTAUGHT"— COMPLETE    book    $1.00. 
Greenview,  Box  61-DA,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 

Training  Service,  DepL  L-72,  Portland  13,  Oregon. 

MAIL  ORDER  CATALOGS 

OLD  COINS  &  MONEY  WANTED 

MATERNITY  STYLES— FREE  Catalog   (Plain   Envelope); 
fashions  by  famous  designers;  $2.98  to  $22.98;  Crawford's, 
DepL  141,  8015  Wornall,  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

WE  PURCHASE  INDIANHEAD  pennies.  Complete  allcoin 
catalogue  2Sc.  Magnacoins,  Box  61-HJ,  Whitestone  57,  N.Y. 

When  you  feel  keyed-up  and  on  edge,  try  MILES 
NERVINE.    It  soothes  nervous  tension,  and  lets 
you  relax  and  rest.    It  doesn't  PUT  you  to  sleep, 
it  LETS  you  sleep!  That's  why  you  feel  fresher, 
more  rested  next  day.    Follow  the 
label,  avoid  excessive  use.  MILES 
NERVINE,  effervescent  tab- 
lets and  liquid,  is  sold  at  all 
drugstores. 


MILES » N  E  R  VI N  E  ^^^'^ 


T 
V 
R 

79 


He's  a  Great  Granddad! 


{Continued  from  page  68) 
troupe  that  he  had  to  be  told  a  departure 
hour  ■was  thirty  minutes  in  advance  of 
the  true  time,  because  he  would  be  shop- 
ping until  the  last  minute  for  keepsakes 
for  Mary  and  Joan.  Some  of  the  finest 
modern-Marine  handcarving  of  native 
outriggers  and  temple  ornaments  brought 
genuine  antique  prices  from  a  not  en- 
tirely hoodwinked  customer  from  Bev- 
erly Hills.  It  was  in  India  that  Jack — 
according  to  reports — would  have  been 
left  behind  if  it  hadn't  been  possible  to 
hear  him,  over  a  mile's  distance,  hasten- 
ing to  the  plane.  They  sell  an  awful  lot 
of  bells  in  Bombay. 

Bearing  this  family  devotion  in  mind, 
several  local  financial  wizards  called  their 
brokers  to  order  additional  shares  of  tele- 
phone stock,  when  they  learned  that  Joan 
Benny  was  to  marry  Seth  Baker  and  live 
in  New  York — while  Jack  and  Mary  re- 
mained on  the  West  Coast.  Telephone 
dividends,  the  wizards  figured,  were  cer- 
tain to  rise  on  the  basis  of  fantastically 
increased  long-distance  tolls  from  coast 
to  coast. 

When  the  same  shrewd  gentlemen  heard 
of  Jack's  impending  grandfatherhood, 
they  added  still  further  telephone  shares 
to  their  holdings.  Well-informed  sources 
say  that  this  perspicacity  has  paid  off — 
at  least  one  such  "wizard"  bought  a  cus- 
tom-made Cadillac  the  other  day. 

There  is  a  story  behind  the  long-dis- 
tance telephone  enthusiasm  of  the  Bennys. 
As  is  rather  well  known  by  now.  Jack 
and  Mary  met  when  Zeppo  Marx  and 
young  Mr.  Benny  were  invited  by  Mary's 
sister  Babe — who  was  also  in  vaudeville 
and  on  the  same  bill  with  the  boys — to 
enjoy  a  home-cooked  meal  in  Vancouver, 
where  Mary's  family  was  then  living. 
Mary  was  twelve  at  the  time  and  was 
overwhelmed  by  the  looks  and  charm  of 
the  "Walter  Raleigh"  of  Waukegan. 

It  can't  be  recorded  that  Jack  recipro- 
cated her  interest.  Actually,  there  was 
in  his  deportment,  a  suggestion  that — far 
from  tossing  down  his  cloak  for  her  dry- 
footed  comfort — he  would  have  gagged 
her  with  it.  Sub-teen  Mary  was  stuck  at 
the  conversational  stage  of  development 
and  was  trying  hard  to  impress  Mr. 
Benny — which  might  have  been  okay  if 
he  could  have  used  any  of  her  lines  in 
his  act  afterward.  But  no  such  luck. 
Said  Benny  to  Marx,  "Get  me  out  of  here. 
What  am  I  doing  with  this  .  .  .  this  kid?" 

I  ears  passed.  Mary  and  her  family 
moved  south  to  San  Francisco  and,  once 
again.  Jack  was  a  dinner  guest  during  a 
San  Francisco  booking.  He  excused  him- 
self as  quickly  as  manners  would  allow. 
By  the  time  Mary  met  Jack  for  the  third 
time,  the  family  was  living  in  Los  Angeles. 
By  now,  Mary  had  been  graduated  from 
high  school  and  was  working  at  the  ho- 
siery counter  at  the  May  Company  (a 
long-time  Benny  radio  gag  which  is 
actually   based  on  truth). 

Mary  and  her  family  caught  Jack's  act 
at  the  Orpheum,  and  he  joined  them  aft- 
erward for  a  post- theater  dinner.  As 
Mary  remembers,  "He  sounded  a  little 
like  a  jukebox  with  the  needle  stuck.  He 
couldn't  get  off  one  subject:  'My,  how 
you've  changed!'  " 

The  following  day  he  strolled  into  the 

May    Company    shortly    before   noon    and 

asked  Mary  to  join  him  for  lunch.     She 

was  so  excited  she  couldn't  swallow  her 

T    coffee,  much  less  a  sandwich.    That  night 

V    they    had   dinner   at   what   was,    in    those 

R    mnocent  days  of  1926,   one  of  downtown 

Los  Angeles'  great  restaurants.  The  Victor 

Hugo.    Mary  had  never  been  in  the  place 


before.    Again,  she  was  too  thrilled  to  eat. 

The  following  night  Jack  took  her  to 
the  Cocoanut  Grove,  and  Mary  definitely 
had  no  appetite.  She  might  have  starved 
altogether  if  Jack  hadn't  left  to  keep  his 
San  Francisco  booking,  and  from  there 
worked  his  way  northward,  theater  by 
theater.  When  he  reached  Seattle  he 
learned  that  he  had  been  re-booked  in 
Los  Angeles,  so  naturally  he  telephoned 
Mary  to  ask  her  to  reserve  a  few  dates 
while  he  was  in  town.  He  had  learned — 
by  the  secret  method  of  listening  to 
Mary's  conversation — that  she  had  at  least 
one  beau  who  kept  her  evenings  busy,  so 
he  felt  he  should  clear  the  way. 

When  the  long-distance  call  came  in 
from  Seattle — the  first  one  Mary  had  ever 
received — she  was  so  overcome  that  she 
couldn't  think  of  anything  to  say.  The 
fact  that  it  was  one  o'clock  in  the  morn- 
ing and  she  had  been  awakened  out  of  a 
sound  sleep  may  also  have  had  something 
to  do  with  it.  Plus  the  fact  that  her 
parents  were  having  no  trouble  finding 
words  to  say  how  they  felt  about  it  all. 

Mary's  second  long-distance  conversa- 
tion with  Jack  resulted  from  Mary's  plac- 
ing a  call  to  her  sister.  Babe,  in  Chicago 
to    announce    that   she    was    going    to    be 


CANADIAN  SONGBIRD 

She's  one  of  America's  favorite 

warblers  now  .  .  .  she's  tops  on  almost 

anybody's  Hit  Parade  .  .  .  she's 

Gisele  MacKenzie 

Watch  for  her  story  and  pictures 

(she's  on  the  cover,  too) 

in  the  January  issue  of 

TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

at  your  favorite  newsstand  December  6 


married.  Babe  said  Mary  was  too  young, 
and  why  didn't  she  come  to  Chicago, 
where  Babe  was  appearing  on  the  same 
biU  with  Jack  Benny,  to  discuss  the  mat- 
ter. Jack  got  on  the  wire  and  seconded 
the  motion.  So  Mary  went  to  Chicago  to 
talk  over  her  "youthful  unpreparedness 
for  marriage" — and  three  days  later,  in 
Waukegan,  married  Jack.  The  date  was 
January  14,  1927,  and  it  marked  the  be- 
ginning of  one  of  the  greatest  telephonic 
relationships  on  record. 

Passing  a  practice  from  one  generation 
to  the  next  was  easy,  in  this  instance. 
When  Joan  Benny  was  a  student  at  Stan- 
ford, an  audit  of  the  telephone  expense 
indicated  that  her  annual  txoition  was  only 
slightly  greater  than  her  toll  calls. 

And  then  she  married,  moved  East,  and 
set  out  a  welcome  mat  for  the  stork. 
During  one  of  her  calls  last  spring,  Joan 
told  her  father  that  she  and  Seth  had  al- 
most settled  on  a  choice  of  names  for  the 
impending  infant:  "Jack"  for  a  boy,  "Jac- 
queline" for  a  girl.  Jack  considered. 
"Alexander  Graham  Baker  might  be  a 
nice  name,"  he  murmured. 

Always  a  quick  man  to  respond  to  re- 
quests for  benefit  performances.  Jack  has 
always  tried  to  adhere  to  one  rule — that 
the  site  of  the  benefit  be  close  at  hand. 


Yet,  in  March,  when  he  was  asked  to 
appear  in  Florida  for  a  worthy  cause — 
at  the  height  of  the  radio  and  TV  season, 
when  every  moment  was  precious — he 
said  with  alacrity,  "I  should  be  able  to 
fly  to  New  York,  have  a  day  with  Joanie, 
fly  to  Florida,  do  the  show,  fly  back  to 
New  York  for  a  day  with  Joanie,  and  be 
home  in  time  for  the  Sunday  show."  He 
made  it. 

Originally  the  stork's  visit  had  been 
scheduled  for  July  7,  so  the  Bennys, 
George  smd  Gracie  AUen  Bums  flew  out 
of  Los  Angeles  on  July  Fourth,  in  order 
to  reach  New  York  in  plenty  of  time. 
George  and  Gracie  were  scheduled  to 
serve  as  godparents  for  the  infant,  and 
also  as  shields  against  a  nervous  break- 
down for   corridor-pacing  Jack. 

July  fifth  passed  without  incident,  ex- 
cept for  the  record-breaking  heat  and 
humidity,  which — as  George  pointed  out — 
could  have  been  a  mild  reflection  of  Jack's 
blood  pressure. 

Ihe  sixth,  seventh,  eighth,  and  ninth 
sweltered  by,  marked  only  by  the  nightly 
trips  of  the  Bennys,  the  Bumses,  and  the 
Bakers  to  some  air-cooled  restaurant 
where  they  talked  far  into  the  closing 
hours.  Inevitably,  someone  would  stop  at 
the  table,  fix  Jack  with  a  sympathetic  eye 
and  ask,  "How  are  you  getting  along. 
Jack?     Really,  I  mean." 

It  began  to  prey  on  Jack's  already  un- 
steady nervous  system.  He  said  to  George 
Burns  one  evening,  "How  do  you  think  I 
look?" 

"About  thirty-eight,"  said  the  man  who 
has  known  him  since  he  was  eighteen. 

On  the  night  of  July  fifteenth,  Paul 
Hahn  (president  of  the  American  To- 
bacco Company)  gave  a  party  to  which 
all  the  ladies-  and  gentlemen-in-waiting 
were  invited.  Joan  had  never  looked 
lovelier — nor  more  remote  from  the  hos- 
pital. Jack  spent  the  evening  trying  to 
avoid  people  who  wanted  to  tell  him  the 
joke  about  the  twins  who  refused  to  be 
bom  because  they  were  so  polite  that 
neither  would  go  first. 

At  seven  on  the  morning  of  a  swelter- 
ing, shimmering  July  sixteenth,  Seth  tele- 
phoned to  say  that  he  and  Joan  were  at 
the  hospital.  Jack  and  Mary  were  still 
trying  to  get  showered,  dressed,  and 
breakfasted  in  order  to  charge  into  the 
waiting  room  when  Seth  called  again  at 
eight  to  say  that  Michael  had  made  his 
debut.  All  critics'  reviews  were  raves — 
Michael  looked  like  a  smash  hit. 

After  their  trip  to  the  hospital  to  meet 
Michael  and  to  check  on  Joan's  condition 
(she  was  doing  wonderfully),  Jack  and 
Mary  departed  to  go  on  separate  errands. 
Mary  had  postponed  several  weeks  of 
essential  shopping,  not  wanting  to  be 
away  from  Joan  at  a  critical  time,  but 
now  she  could  descend  on  the  shops  with 
an  easy  mind.  She  agreed  to  meet  Jack 
at  their  Sherry-Netherland  suite  at  five. 

He  was  ten  minutes  late.  "Because  a 
fellow  can't  do  a  thing  like  this  in  a  rush. 
There  are  too  many  details  to  be  checked," 
he  explained.  PridefuUy,  he  pulled  the 
wrappings  ofE  a  junior  golf  bag  and  a  full 
set  of  clubs. 

"Oh,  Jack.'"  said  Mary. 

So  far,  however,  Rochester  has  had  the 
last  word.  When  he  was  told  that  Jack 
was  now  known  as  "Grandfather,  J.G." — 
and  the  "J.G."  was  identified  as  "Junior 
Grade"— he  sniffed.  "That's  nuthin',"  he 
said  emphatically.  "In  twenty  years, 
when  Michael  becomes  a  father,  Mr. 
Benny  will  be  the  only  great  grandfather 
in   the    new    Kinsey    report — still    thirty- 


Just  Naturally  Jan 

{Continued  from  page  35) 
fan  magazine  and  organized  a  Janette 
Davis  Fan  Club.  Over  the  years  she  saw 
Jan  many  times.  Jan  was  touched  by  the 
girl's  devotion.  She  tried  to  do  little 
things  for  Grace  without  being  obvious. 
Through  a  third  friend,  Jan  arranged  for 
Grace  to  get  a  little  financial  help  with 
her  correspondence  costs.  One  day,  she 
arranged  for  Grace  to  get  the  full  glamour 
treatment  at  a  beauty  salon.  Jan  tried  to 
keep  her  part  in  it  a  secret,  but  Grace 
caught  on  and  said,  "I  just  know  it  was 
you  who  did  this,  Jan." 

Jan  finally  admitted  it  and  added, 
"Nothing  I've  ever  done  can  repay  you 
for  your  faith   in  me." 

"I  didn't  do  anything,"  Grace  insisted. 
"I  just  love  you." 

And  that's  what  Jan  meant  to  one  per- 
son who  got  to  know  her. 

It's  always  been  difficult  for  Jan  to  find 
the  time  to  meet  with  fan  clubs — for,  like 
the  other  Little  Godfreys,  she  has  a 
strenuous  time  of  it  with  five  morning 
shows  and  the  big  Wednesday -night  TV 
program.  There  is  rehearsing  and  groom- 
ing and  shopping  for  clothes  and  Ustening 
to  new  songs  and,  finally,  doing  the  shows. 

Jan  lives  in  a  comfortable  but  very 
modest  apartment  in  Manhattan  during  the 
work  week.  She  is  no  show-off.  She  was 
making  good  money  even  before  she 
joined  Arthur.  But  she  has  never  lived 
ostentatiously.  For  years  she  drove  a 
moderately  priced  car.  Friends  used  to 
ask  why  she  didn't  drive  fancy  cars  or  live 
in  a  mansion. 

"Why  should  I?"  she  asked. 

"Other  singers  in  your  class  do." 

"That's  not  a  reason,"  Jan  told  them. 

h  or  many  years,  Jan  wanted  a  house  of 
her  own.  She  left  her  family's  home  at 
sixteen  to  go  to  work  and  thereafter  was 
always  on  the  move.  She  constantly  win- 
dow-shopped for  a  house  of  her  own.  As 
her  income  increased,  she  saved  more 
money,  but  she  also  contributed  more  to 
her  family.  The  oldest  of  the  Davis  brood 
at  Pine  Bluff,  Arkansas,  Jan  has  always 
been  loyal  to  the  family.  Finally,  several 
years  ago,  she  bought  a  house. 

"Why  did  you  wait  so  long?"  she  was 
asked. 

"I  couldn't  afford  a  house  before." 

"But,  in  this  business,  who  waits  until 
they  can  afford  it?" 

That  remark  is  pretty  much  the  truth — 
and  it  is  one  of  the  things  that  makes  Jan 
so   different. 

But  she  had  one  fixation  about  the  home 
she  had  dreamt  of  for  so  many  years: 
Everything  had  to  be  new — all  of  the 
furnishings  and  every  ashtray  and  even 
the  wash  rags  and  tooth  brushes.  And 
that's  the  way  it  was,  the  day  she  moved 
in. 

Jan  had  anticipated  that  day  for  years, 
but  she  recalls,  "It  was  too  much  of  every- 
thing at  one  time.  It  was  all  that  I  wanted, 
but  it  took  weeks  before  I  got  used  to 
living  with  it  all." 

The  house,  on  the  north  shore  of  Long 
Island,  was  described  in  detail  in  the 
February  1955  issue  of  TV  Radio  Mirror. 
It  is  a  white  brick  ranch  house  with  long, 
handsome  lines.  The  inside  is  spacious, 
with  semi-modem  furnishings.  The  deco- 
rating was  done  by  a  friend,  Dottie 
Kendrick,  who  was  once  a  professional 
decorator.  The  gals  were  in  complete 
agreement,  from  the  weathervane  to  the 
doormat. 

Actually,  Jan's  tastes  are  simple.  She 
likes  nice  clothes  and  selects  plain,  tailored 
dresses.  Aqua  is  her  favorite  color.  When 
relaxing,  she  wears  pedal  pushers,  tweeds 


''Who'd be//'Q\/e  /wa^  G\/er 
embatta^Qed  by  P/MPL£S/'' 


New!  Clearasil  Medication 

STARVES 
PIMPLES 

SKIN-COLORED 

HIDES  PIMPLES  WHILE  IT  WORKS 

Doctors'  clinical  tests  prove  this  new-type  medi- 
cation especially  for  pimples  really  works.  In 
skin  specialists'  tests  on  202  patients,  9  out  of 
every  10  cases  were  cleared  up  or  definitely 
improved  while  using  CLEARASIL. 

Amazing  starving  action,  clearasil  actually 
starves  pimples  because  it  helps  remove  the  oils 
that  pimples  "feed"  on.  And  CLEARASIL's  anti- 
septic action  stops  the  growth  of  bacteria  that 
can  cause  and  spread  pimples.  Skin-colored  to 
hide  pimples  and  end  embarrassment.  Grease- 
less,  stainless . . .  pleasant  to  leave  on  day  and 
night  for  uninterrupted  medication. 

America's  largest-selling  specific  pimple 
medication... because  CLEARASIL  has  helped  so 
many  boys,  girls  and  adults.  GUARANTEED  to 
work  for  you  as  it  did  in  doctors'  tests  or  money 
back.59(fand98(f.Atalldruggists.GetCLEARASII, 
today.  (Available  in  Canada,  slighdy  more.) 


EW  BABY  SHOES 

At   Home.     No    Canvassing. 

$40  Weekly  possible.   Write 

TINY-TOT  CO..  Gallipolis  32,  Ohio 


INGROWN  NAIL 

Hurting  You? 

Immediate 
Relief! 


A  few  droDS  of  OUTGHO®  bring  blessed  relief  from 
tormenting  pain  of  ingrown  nail.  OUTGRO  tougli- 
ens  the  skin  underneath  the  nail,  allows  the  nail  to 
be  cut  and  thus  prevents  further  pain  and  discom- 
fort.  OUTGRO  is  available  at  all  drug  counters. 


Why  be  blue 
when  you  can 

/ 


If  monthly  distress— pain, 
cramps,  nervous  tension 
and  headache  —  get  you 
down,  be  smart  and  try 


CHI-CHES-TERS 


If  you  don't  get  safe,  quick,  long-lasting  relief  we 
will  refund  your  money.  Fair  enough?  Get  Chi- 
Ches-Ters  and  compare  this  medically  proven,  pre- 
scription-like "wonder"  formula  with  any  other 
product  you  have  used.  In  doctors'  tests  9  out  of 
10  women  got  relief— often  with  the  first  dose.  Why 
not  you?  Feel  gay  every  day  with  Chi-Ches-Ters. 
Purse  Pak  50^;  Economy  Sizes  $1.15  and  $2.25. 
If  your  druggist  hasn't  any,  ask  him  to  get  some 
for  you— or  we  will  fill  direct  orders. 

FRKE — Illustrated  booklet  of  intimate  facts 
every  woman  should  know.  Mailed  in  plain 
wrapper.  Write  today!  Chichester  Chemical 
Company,  Dept.   24-S,    Philadelphia  46,  Pa. 


12  NEW  TOWELS  only  M. 00 

LAKGE  SIZE!  Assorted  colors.  New!  *Iot  seconds.  Non- 
woven  COTTON  and  RAYON.  Money-back  gruarantee.  Sup- 
ply limited.  Order  Now!  R.  J.  HOMAKERS  CO.,  Dept.  813, 
Box   264,    Farmingdale,    L.I.,    N.Y. 


'  Only  by  KILUNG  THE  HAIR  ROOT  can  you  be  s 

r  UNWANTED  HAIR  is  GONE  FOREVER.  Brings  relief  i 

^  and  social  happiness.  Do  not  use  our  method  until  J 

F  you  have  read  our  instruction  book  carefully  and  i 

i  the  MAHLER  METHOD  safely  and  i 

efficiently.  Used  successfully  over  fifty  years.     /-""mFW"" 

BEAUTY  ', 
LFOR  YOU'J 


Send  S^TODAY  for  booklet  0 


MAHLER'S,  INC      DepL  59-T  PROVIDENCE  15.  R.  I. 


RELI 

Toothache 

Denture 

Irritation 

Neuralgic 
Pains 

with  quick-soothing 


NUM-ZIT 

>        ADULT 
STRENGTH 


at  all  drug  counters 

For  baby's  teething  pains,  --" 

ask  for  NUM-ZIT  Teething  Lotion 
Products  of  PURER  AC  Corporation  — — 


T 
V 
R 

81 


and  loafers.  She  still  does  her  own  nails 
and  hair,  and  lives  with  her  sister  Carol, 
who  has  been  her  secretary  and  good  right 
arm  for  the  past  five  years. 

Maxie  Kendrick,  husband  of  Dottie,  has 
known  Jan  ever  since  she  came  to  New 
York.  He  is  a  contact  man  (song-plugger, 
in  Tin  Pan  Alley  lingo)  for  one  of  the 
biggest  music  publishers,  and  that  was 
how  he  came  to  meet  Jan.  He  and  Dottie 
and  Jan  are  close  friends  and  spend  many 
evenings  and  weekends  together. 

"To  me,"  says  Maxie,  "Jan  has  always 
been  one  of  the  most  interesting  persons 
in  the  business.  She  has  a  realistic  ap- 
proach to  things,  and  that  is  rare.  She  sees 
things  as  they  are.  She  has  never  ac- 
quired a  celebrity's  tastes  or  airs.  If  we 
go  out  to  a  night  club,  Jan  insists  that 
we  don't  sit  at  ringside.  When  she  comes 
over  for  dinner,  we  know  that  she'll  be 
happy  to  'take  her  shoes  off,'  and  more 
than  satisfied  with  frankfurters  and  beans." 

He  tells  another  story  about  Jan  which 
is  revealing.  She  and  Maxie  were  in  a 
jewelry  store  before  Christmas,  hard  at 
work  gift-shopping.  "I  want  to  lauy  Carol 
a  dinner  ring,"  Jan  announced,  "but  I'd  be 
happier  if  she  picked  it  out  herself.  Let's 
call  and  see  if  she  can  come  over." 

They  phoned  and  Carol  said  she  would 
be  right  over.  "In  the  meantime,"  Jan  told 
the  jeweler,  "I  think  I'm  going  to  buy  my- 
self a  present." 

She  studied  the  tray  of  rings  and  picked 
out  one  for  herself.  Then  Carol  came  in, 
studied  the  assortment  and  chose  one.  At 
that   point,   the   jeweler   nervously    called 


Maxie  aside  and  informed  him  that  Carol's 
ring  cost  much  more  than  Jan's — and 
would  Jan  like  this?  Jan  was  asked.  "I 
like  my  ring.  Carol  likes  hers,"  Jan  said. 
And  that  settled  it. 

Jan  loves  the  sun  and  ocean.  In  summer- 
time, you'll  very  often  find  her  at  Jones 
Beach,  "living  it  up."  After  a  swim,  more 
often  than  not,  she  and  her  friends  will 
stop  in  a  market,  pick  up  some  groceries 
and  go  on  to  Jan's  house — where  they  all 
take  part  in  a  cook-out. 

"After  a  week's  work,  I  live  it  up  by 
living  it  down,"  she  says.  "I  just  want  to 
relax  and  rest  and  maybe  have  some 
friends  in.  We  just  listen  to  records,  watch 
TV,  have  many  laughs — and  everybody 
goes  home  happy." 

Although  Jan  is  feminine  and  pretty, 
she's  got  the  strength  and  courage  of  a  six- 
foot  heavyweight.  There's  proof  of  this  in 
her  career.  She  got  started  as  a  kid  with 
no  one  to  hold  her  hand,  or  put  ice  packs 
on  her  head,  and  she  made  it  to  the  top. 
During  some  of  those  years,  she  worked 
for  as  little  as  four  dollars  a  night,  and 
there  were  a  couple  of  bad  days  when  she 
was  down  to  a  couple  of  dimes  and  a 
quarter.  She  didn't  run  home  to  mother. 
She  kept  going. 

She  is  a  woman  of  conviction  and  proves 
her  faith  in  people.  She  goes  to  bat  for 
friends.  She  does  not  accept  gossip  as  the 
gospel   truth. 

Jan  has  a  reputation  for  being  out- 
spoken, often  blunt,  but  it  is  her  honesty. 
She  will  not  keep  someone  or  something 
dangling   if   she   knows   in   her  heart   the 


answer  is  no.  As  cute  and  fetching  as  she 
is,  Jan  drives  her  car  with  the  positive 
assurance  of  a  man.  She  refuses  to  ob- 
serve feminine  timidities.  If  work  keeps 
her  in  Manhattan  late  on  a  weekend  night, 
she  has  no  fear  of  driving  alone  to  her 
house — an  hour's  trip — at  one  in  the  morn- 
ing. 

Maxie  Kendrick  tells  of  another  incident 
concerning  Jan.  On  the  day  she  was 
robbed,  about  a  year  ago,  he  was  very 
ill.  Shortly  after  she  arrived  at  the  Kend- 
ricks'  apartment  to  visit,  Jan  was  notified 
that  thieves  had  broken  into  her  home, 
taking  cash,  jewelry,  clothes  and  furs. 

Jan  talked  to  Carol,  calming  her,  and 
finally  hung  up  and  continued  her  con- 
versation with  Maxie  and  Dot. 

"Aren't  you  going  back  to  your  apart- 
ment?" Maxie  asked. 

"Why?  What  can  I  do  about  it  now?" 

And  she  stayed  on  for  two  hours,  not 
interrupting   the   sick   call. 

Jan  sees  things  and  people  and  situa- 
tions for  what  they  are,  and  that  goes  for 
herself,  too.  Perhaps  that  is  why  she 
doesn't  like  the  "glamour  treatment."  She 
tries  to  sing  her  best  at  all  times.  She  is 
always  honest,  with  herself  and  with  her 
friends.  For  Jan,  this  is  just  doing  what 
comes  naturally,  so  she  can't  quite  see  why 
anyone  should  want  to  make  a  fuss  over 
her. 

But  the  other  Little  Godfreys — and  the 
Talent  Scouts — and  a  whole  coast-to-coast 
network  of  official  fan  clubs  and  unofficial, 
loyal  friends — they  all  know  why. 


What  Romance  Means  to  Me 


(Continued  from  page  31) 
the    enjoyment   while   disliking    it   inside. 

The  most  important  feature  of  every 
personality  is  one's  faith.  Although  I  don't 
dwell  on  it,  I'd  want  someone  who  has 
faith,  not  necessarily  my  faith,  but  a  be- 
lief in  God.  I  feel  that,  to  be  a  well- 
rounded  person,  one  must  have  some 
spiritual  belief.  It  tends  to  be  the  "cement" 
which  holds  the  rest  of  their  personality 
together  and  gives  it  meaning. 

The  girl  I  would  choose  must  be  ac- 
cepted by  my  friends  and  family.  This  is 
very  important  to  me.  We  are  a  close-knit 
family  and  can't  have  complete  happi- 
ness without  one  another's  love  and  ap- 
proval. 

I  would  like  to  have  my  girl  get  the 
same  reaction  that  my  brother  George's 
wife,  Janie,  receives.  Our  family  and 
friends  say,  "Janie  is  so  wonderful  and 
sweet — she  is  really  a  doll."  They  think 
George  is  most  lucky  to  have  met  her 
(and  the  other  way  around). 

My  sister  Angle  feels  the  same  way.  She 
was  recently  married  to  Tom  Farrell,  but 
before  the  wedding  she  was  most  anxious 
that  we  would  all  like  her  prospective 
husband.  She  came  to  us,  saying,  "I'm  in 
love  with  Tom  and  I  would  like  you  all  to 
accept  him  into  your  hearts  .  .  .  it's  most 
important  to  me  how  you  feel.  .  .  ." 

But  then  I  don't  think  we  are  so  much 
different  from  any  other  family  in  this 
respect.  I  think  it  is  important  that  any 
family  and  friends  like  and  approve  of 
a  prospective  bride  or  bridegroom.  Some- 
times, though,  I  think  that  young  people 
believe  they  must  feel  free  to  make  a 
choice  on  their  own  account  in  this  mat- 
ter— without  group  guidance,  and  even  in 
defiance  of  their  friends  and  relatives. 
T  They  think  it  is  nobody's  business  but 
V    their    own. 

R  But  is  it?  Our  family  has  always  felt 
that,  when  you  marry,  you  marry  friends 
and  relatives,  too.  You  have  here,  after  all. 


a  loving  friendship  which  has  taken  years 
to  build  up.  Yet  it  seems  that  some  young 
people  are  so  in  love  with  love  that  they 
jump  at  the  first  opportunity  to  exchange 
their  family  circle  for  some  romantic 
square. 

I  can  remember  my  first  romance — 
actually,  it  was  my  meeting,  for  the  first 
time,  someone  outside  our  family  circle 
whom  I  thought  was  really  the  greatest. 
She  was  the  daughter  of  the  Mayor  of 
West  Milwaukee  Village.  Her  elegance  and 
breeding  made  her  the  complete  charmer. 
We  were  both  seven  years  old. 

We  were  more  than  just  friends — at  least, 
I  thought  so.  This  was  well  before  my 
music  had  taken  hold  of  my  interests,  and 
I  was  free  to  devote  all  my  waking  hours 
to  writing  her  notes  and  all  my  waking 
thoughts  to  her  pigtails  and  blue  eyes. 

Then,  one  day,  I  very  bravely  wrote 
"I  love  you"  on  one  of  the  notes  and 
slipped  it  into  her  schoolroom  desk.  I 
waited  breathlessly  until  she  came  in.  I 
almost  died  of  anxiety  all  the  hour  until 
recess — for  she  never  opened  her  desk  un- 
til that  time.  Then  she  put  away  her  books, 
saw  the  note,  and  picked  it  out.  I  thought 
surely  that  now,  at  least,  I  would  get  the 
big  smile  I  had  waited  for  the  whole  hour. 
But  no!  She  was  most  annoyed,  slammed 
down  the  desk,  and  never  talked  to  me 
again.  She  was  a  delicate  young  lady — in 
fact,  that  is  what  attracted  my  seven-year- 
old  heart  to  her — but  she  was  offended  by 
the  brashness  of  my  note! 

Then  my  music  took  hold  of  me  and, 
for  years,  there  was  no  room  for  romance. 
In  high  school,  for  example,  while  my 
friends  were  busy  dating,  I  was  spending 
eight  hours  a  day  at  the  piano.  And  after 
graduation,  when  others  were  getting  en- 
gaged and  married,  I  was  traveling  with 
my  piano  across  the  country. 

When  you  have  a  variety  of  interests, 
you  don't  make  romance  your  prime  goal 
in  life.   Granted   that   romance   and   mar- 


riage are  the  greatest  things  in  life — from 
high  school  on,  all  my  friends  looked  for- 
ward with  stars  in  their  eyes  to  that  one 
great  day.  But  I  had  a  romance  of  sorts  of 
my  own:  My  music  had  brought  with  it  a 
variety  of  interests — I  was  an  active  per- 
son, seeing  new  faces  in  new  places  where- 
ever  I  traveled. 

There  were  a  couple  of  times,  during 
that  early  period  of  travel,  when  my  work 
allowed  me  to  stay  in  one  place  long 
enough  to  develop  close  friendships.  But  I 
foiind  that  the  girls  I  knew  did  not  want 
to  compete  with  the  piano  for  my  atten- 
tions. Even  more  important  was  the  fact 
that  they  had  to  share  my  feelings  and  re- 
lationships with  many  hundreds  of  people. 
They  didn't  understand  that  sharing  was 
part  of  my  work  and  life.  They  resented  it. 

For  example,  I'd  be  having  dinner  in  a 
restaurant  with  a  girl.  Candles  on  the 
table  and  music  in  the  background — in 
short,  a  romantic  evening.  Then,  in  the 
middle  of  our  conversation,  some  lady  or 
gentleman  would  come  up  to  say:  "Excuse 
me,  but  I  have  a  little  daughter  who  ad- 
mires your  piafio  playing  so  much — and 
would  you  be  kind  enough  to  autograph 
this  menu  for  me?"  Or  some  young  man 
or  woman  might  even  say,  "I  would  like 
to  be  a  pianist,  too — I  wonder  if  you  could 
give  me  a  few  moments  of  your  time  .  .  ." 
and  I  would  say,  "Of  course,  do  sit  down 
and  we'll  talk." 

After  this  happens  two  or  three  times 
in  the  course  of  a  dinner,  my  companion 
has  sometimes  said,  "How  can  you  stand 
these  interruptions?  I'm  sure  I  couldn't 
take  it" — or,  "I  really  think  these  people 
are  nervy."  These  reactions  immediately 
set  up  the  thought  in  my  mind:  I'm  sorry 
that  you  won't  be  hearing  from  me  for  a 
while.  .  .  . 

This  kind  of  thing  is  well  illustrated  in 
a  scene  from  my  Warner  Brothers  picture, 
"Sincerely  Yours."  It  is  a  scene  which  is 
very  true  to  life:  I'm  at  a  high  point  in  my 


life — about  to  ask  a  girl  (Dorothy  Malone) 
to  be  my  wife.  Suddenly,  someone  comes 
up  to  say,  "Will  you  please  play  the  piano 
for  us?"  Dorothy  is  very  sweet  and  under- 
standing about  the  interruption.  But  she 
realizes — in  fact,  we  both  realize — that 
the  whole  thing  is  bigger  than  both  of  us: 
To  make  a  long  story  short,  it  seems  I 
don't  wind  up  with  the  girl.  And  how  true 
that  is! 

I  have  always  felt  that  romance,  as  such, 
was  a  rather  vague  ideal.  The  newspaper 
definition  of  romance,  for  example,  is  cer- 
tainly not  the  dictionary  definition:  If  I 
just  once  go  to  dinner  with  a  girl,  it's  a 
romance;  if  I'm  seen  twice  in  the  same 
week  with  the  same  person,  it's  an  en- 
gagement. 

But  to  get  back  to  the  statement  that 
romance  is  a  vague  idea.  Recently,  for 
example,  I  returned  to  my  home  town  of 
Milwaukee.  Wisconsin,  for  a  high-school 
class  reunion.  Everybody  was  married  and 
I  had  to  learn  a  hundred  new  names!  But 
there  was  a  sad  note  in  the  reunion,  too. 
One  of  my  old  school  chums  told  me  how 
unhappy  she  was — yes.  she  was  married, 
too.  In  fact,  that  was  the  trouble.  Every- 
body else  was  getting  married,  she  said,  so 
she  got  married  because  it  was  the  thing 
to  do! 

Well,  obviously  this  wasn't  reason 
enough.  She  had  thought,  she  said,  that 
she'd  get  married  and  immediately  find 
romance — but  it  didn't  turn  out  that  way. 
She  found,  instead,  the  monotony  of  Mon- 
day washing  and  Tuesday  shopping,  and 
she  was  disappointed.  Well,  I  think  that, 
as  with  most  good  things  in  this  life,  you 
don't  just  find  them — you  have  to  work 
for  them  or  make  them.  Romance  is  no 
different. 

My  friend  complained  because  she 
thought  her  life  was  monotonous.  But  her 
monotony  was  the  result  of  her  hope  to 
find  romance  in  marriage.  The  key  to  her 
error,  I  think,  is  the  word  find.  You  don't 
"find"  romance.  You  work  for  it,  or  you 
make  it  somehow — but  it  isn't  easily  come 
by. 

If  my  music  has  given  me  anything,  it  is 
a  variety  of  interests — the  music  itself,  the 
travel,  the  people  I  meet.  There's  romance 
in  these  interests.  And,  as  far  as  I  could 
see,  that's  what  my  now-married  high- 
school  chum  needed  to  freshen  up  her  life 
— a  variety  of  interests.  I  didn't  know  what 
to  tell  her,  but  I  pointed  out  that  she 
could  have  many  of  the  same  things  I  have 
by  developing  hobbies,  outside  interests, 
doing  things  for  her  husband,  finding  some 
charitable  work,  gardening — there  are 
hundreds  of  things  to  do  within  reach  of 
all  of  us.  Each  has  a  romance  of  its  own. 
But  the  secret  lies  in  making  it  a  romance. 
There's  no  finding  it. 

For  myself,  I've  waited  this  long  for 
marriage,  and  perhaps  that  has  been  a 
problem.  For,  the  longer  I  wait,  the  more 
demanding  I  become.  And  I've  found  so 
many  ideal  things  in  my  life,  I  wonder 
why  I  should  risk  the  chance  of  spoiling 
them  by  a  marriage  that  isn't  perfect. 

And  my  career  still  demands  so  much  of 
my  time — it  wovddn't  be  fair  to  a  wife  or 
family  to  have  a  home  Ufe  which  was  con- 
stantly interrupted  by  long  concert  tours 
and  public  appearances.  In  the  family  that 
I  raise,  there  will  be  romance  and  adven- 
ture, and  I  wouldn't  be  able  to  devote  the 
proper  time  if  I  were  constantly  on  the 
road.  When  it  comes,  it  will  be  handled  in 
a  very  sacred  and  dignified  manner — it 
won't  be  spread  across  the  pages  like  some 
Hollywood  romances.  It  will  be  done  with 
dignity,  with  the  sacred  underlying  rever- 
ence which  a  marriage  deserves.  It  won't 
flourish  overnight,  like  the  Hollywood 
press-agent  type  of  romance.  When  it 
comes,  it  will  be  a  romance  that  will  en- 
dure. 


DRAW  ME! 

TRY  FOR  A  FREE  2-YEAR 
ART  SCHOLARSHIP  WORTH  *3350o 

Imagine  winning  two  years  of  free  training  for 
a  career  in  advertising  art  or  illustrating! 

Many  well-paid  artists  today  have  studied 
with  the  art  school  that  offers  this  scholarship. 
It's  the  world's  largest  home  study  art  school. 
You're  trained  by  professional  artists.  You 
get   individual   coaching,   personal   guidance. 

As  prize  winner,  you  also  receive  a  Profes- 
sional Drawing  Outfit — and  a  series  of  Art 
Textbooks  to  which  over  40  leading  artists 
have  contributed.  Try  for  this  free  Art  Schol- 
arship! Make  a  sketch  of  the  famous  "Draw 
Me"  Girl. 


ART  INSTRUCTION,  INC.,  STUDIO  11395 
500  So.  4th  St.,  Minneapolis  15,  Minn. 

Please  enter   my   attached   drawing  in   your 
December  contest.  (PLEASE  PRINT) 


Address_ 

Chy 

Stale 


_-Zone_ 
-Occupation^ 


P/lone_ 

_Counfy_ 


DRAW  THIS 
GIRL'S  HEAD 

5  inches  high.  Use  pencil  only.  All 
drawings  must  be  received  by  Decem- 
ber 31,  1955.  None  returned.  Winner 
notified.  Amateurs  only.  Our  students 
not  eligible.  Mail  your  drawing  today. 


AMAZE  YOUR  FRIENDS 


tie  BOWS  like  this  QlE 


Create  exciting  gift  wrappings 
Follow  instructions  in  this  book 

Send  only  ^Qj  for  your  copy 
RIPPL-TIE  Products  Company 

2725  WEST  ARMITAGE      •      CHICAGO  47.  ILLINOIS 


ExtrO       Here's  an  unusual  opportunity  to 
earn  extra  cash  fast  and  often. 
^CI5h         We  pay  the  highest  commissions 
to  thousands  of  part-time  sales- 
FaSt  men  who  help  us  take  orders  for 

magazine  subscriptions.  It's  easy 
to  do.  No  experience!  Rush  name  and  ad- 
dress for  FREE  money-making  information 
to:  Room  203,  c/o  Mocfadden  Publications,  205 
East  42  St..  New  York  17.  N.  Y. 


'i 


TOWELS  Jl 

Incredible,  but  true  I  20  large-size,  new  towels  in  colors 
and  white — for  only  5^  each!  Minimum  order  20  for 
$1.00.  (Pis.  include  5<*  extra  for  postage  and  handling, 
or  $1.05  in  all  for  20  Towels.)  Others  charge  $1.00  for 
only  FIVE  umvoven  cotton  and  rayon  towels  like  these  but 
we  made  a  terrific  purchase  and  are  passing  savings  on  to 
you.  Limit — 3  orders  per  customer.  !Money-back  guaran- 
tee. Order  TODAY!  Make  wonderful  gifts. 
NICKEL  TOWELS,    Dept   599.    Box  881,   St.   Louis,    Mo. 


MATERNITY 
STYLE  CATALOG 


SAVE  MONEY-Shop  by  Mail!  FREE  cata-  iV^ 
log  pictures  hundreds  of  exclusive  ma- 
ternity  fashions.  World's  Largest.  Complete 
Selection,  Dresses,  Suits,  Mix  &  Match  Sep- 
arates, Sportswear,  Girdles,  Lingerie;  $2.98 
to  %22,9S,Catalog  mailed  in  plain  envelope 

C  RAWFORD'S 

Dept  35,  8015WornalKKansasCityl4,Mo« 


Add  COLOR  To  Your  TV! 

New  Multichrome  television  screen  filter  adds 
color  to  any  set.  Attach  in  seconds.  Instantly, 
vivid  color  takes  the  place  of  drab  black  and 
white.  Glare  and  eyestrain  are  eliminated. 
Guaranteed.  Now  only  $1.98.  Send  now.  Spec- 
ify screen  size. 

HOLMES  COMPANY,   Dept.   B 

Box  581  Hollywood  28.  Calif. 


ANY  PHOTO  ENLARGED 

Size  8  X  10  Inches 


67' 


on  DOUBLE-WEIGHT  Paper 

Same  price  for  full  lensth  or  bust 
form,  eroups,  landscapes,  pet  ani- 
mals, etc.,  or  enlargements  of  any 
part  of  a  rtoop  picture.  Original  is 
returned  with  your  enlargement. 

SendNoMoney  ^ior^^o 

Just  mail  photo,  negative  or  snap- 
shot (any  size)  and  receive  your  enlargement, 
guaranteed  fadeless,  on  beautiful  double- weight 
portrait  quality  paper.  Pay  postman  67c  plus 
postage— or  send  69c  with  order  and  we  pay  post- 
aere.  Take  advantage  of  this  amazing  offer.  Send 

your  photosnow.Prof  essional  ArtStudios 
544  S.  Main,  Dept. 35-W,  Princeton, III. 


Reveal  Jeatures,  ex- 
presslDn,  Hie  unseen 
In  snapshots  and 
small  photographt 


Any 

Photo 

Copied 


Up  To  A  $10  PHOTO  STUDIO  VALUE  Only  $1 


BILLFOLD 
PHOTOS 


50  for  only  $2 


Sent  on 
Approval 

(Send  No 
Money) 


Double-Weight,  Silk  Finish,  Portrait 
Paper.  Each  {21/2x31/2  inch)  PHOTO 
is  beautifully  DECKLE  EDGED. 

lUST  to  get  acquainted  we  will  make  you  these  NEW  artistic.  BILLFOLD  PHOTOGRAPHS  that  are  the  rage 
J  for  exchanging  with  school  mates,  as  gifts  and  enclosures  with  greeting  cards  or  in  correspondence.  SEND  NO 
MONET,  just  enclose  your  favorite  snapshot  or  any  size  photo  for  20  or  50  BILLFOLD  (Wallet)  SIZE  PHOTOS 
{one  pose)  suitable  for  framing  and  keepsakes.  TJsed  by  thousands  of  students,  teachers,  job  seekers,  parents, 
movie  stars  and  others.  Original  returned  with  your  order.  Pay  postman  on  arrival  plus  a  few  cents  for  our  C.O.D. 
and  postage  or  enclose  the  money  and  we  prepay.  3-day  service.  Portrait  studio  quality  and  satisfaction  guaranteed. 
Please  send  within  15  days  to 


MOVYLAND    STUDIOS 


Dept.  99,  211  W.  7th  St.,  DES  MOINES  2,  IOWA 


T 
¥ 
R 

83 


NEW  DESIGNS  FOR  LIVING 


7174 — Crochet  this  doily  or  centerpiece  for  a 
gift,  for  your  own  home.  Smart  combination 
of  filet  crochet  and  regular  crochet.  Oval 
doily,  17  X  26  inches  in  No.  30  mercerized  cot- 
ton; smaller  in  No.  50;  large  in  bedspread 
cotton.    25^ 

663 — He's  32-inches  high — big  as  a  little  boy. 
Your  child  will  love  having  him  for  a  play- 
mate. Dress  him  in  Size  2  boys'  clothes. 
Pattern  parts,  easy-to-follow  doll  directions  in- 
cluded.  254 

7001 — Your  little  girl  will  be  thrilled  with 
this  new-fashion  outfit.  Easy  double-crochet 
forms  the  pretty  pattern;  little  lacy  scallops 
the  edging  on  shrug.  Directions  for  Girls' 
Sizes  4-6,  8-10,  12-14,  included.  25(^ 

771 — Forty-eight  colorful  birds,  each  nestling 
against  its  own  state  flower.  Easy,  fun  to  em- 
broider on  a  cozy  quilt.  Diagrams,  transfers 
of  every  state  bird  and  flower  included.  Quilt 
72  X  10  inches.    Double-bed  size.    25^ 

7354 — Prettiest  way  to  protect  a  chair  or  buf- 
fet. Roses  in  filet  crochet — leaves  in  pineapple 
design.  Easy-to-follow  directions,  charts.  Chair- 
back  is  14  X  16  inches  in  No.  50  cotton.    25(J 

7358 — Pattern-full  of  pot-holders — 
all  different,  gay,  easy  to  make.  Per- 
fect for  gifts  as  well  as  for  yourself. 
Use  colorful  scraps,  bright  thread. 
Seven  pot-holders  in  pattern.  Direc- 
tions, transfer.    25^ 


7363 — It's  easy  to  crochet  this  new 
cover  in  any  size  for  your  TV  set. 
Pineapples  and  mesh  form  the  pretty 
pattern.  Crochet  TV  square  24"  in 
No.  30  mercerized  cotton;  smaller 
in  No.  50;  larger  in  bedspread  cot- 
ton.  25^ 


84 


Send  twenly-five  cents  (in  coins)  for  each  pattern  to:  TV  Radio  Mirror,  Needlecraft  Service,  P.O.  Box  137,  Old  Chelsea  Station, 
New  York  11,  N.  Y.  Add  five  cents  for  each  pattern  for  first-class   mailing.  Send  an  additional  25^  for  Needlecraft   Catalog. 


Daytime  Diary 


(Continued   from  page  22) 


Ogden,  himself  almost  as  dangerous  a 
schemer  as  Sibyl,  turn  her  mental  tur- 
moil to  his  own  uses  while  making  her 
beheve  she  is  victimizing  hitn?  CBS  Radio. 

THE  ROMAXCE  OF  HELEN  TRENT 

Just  when  Helen's  long,  apparently  hope- 
less romance  with  GU  Whitney  appeared 
headed  for  a  happy  ending,  GU's  sudden 
infatuation  with  another  woman  shook 
Helen  so  badly  that  she  hesitates  to  make 
plans  for  the  future  he  now  so  ardently 
desires.  Will  she  decide  it  is  wiser  to  ac- 
cept Brett  Chapman's  repeated  offer  of 
marriage?  Or  will  the  new  problem  loom- 
ing before  her  drive  all  other  considera- 
tions from  her  thoughts?  CBS  Radio. 

SEARCH     FOR     TOMORROW     The 

return  to  Henderson  of  Joanne  and  Ar- 
thur Tate  adds  impetus  to  the  situation 
involving  Joanne's  friends,  the  Bergmans, 
with  Melanie  Pritchard  and  her  scheming 
mother.  Has  Mrs.  Pritchard  a  chance  of 
succeeding  in  her  coldly  vicious  plan  to 
get  Stu  Bergman  divorced  from  Marge 
and  married  to  Melanie?  Will  Joanne's  old 
enemies  in  town  somehow  lend  Mrs. 
Pritchard  a  hand,  willingly  or  otherwise? 
CBS-TV. 

THE  SECOND  MRS.  RIRTON  Al- 
though Stan  Burton  has  never  relaxed 
his  opposition  to  his  mother's  proposed 
marriage,  even  he  is  a  little  startled  when, 
after  a  definite  date  is  set,  he  and  Terry 
are  inadvertently  responsible  for  blowing 
up  the  whole  arrangement.  Will  Stan  be 
sorrier  than  ever  now  that  the  domineer- 
ing Mother  Burton  is  free  once  more  to 
concentrate  on  running  the  lives  of  her 
children?    CBS  Radio. 

THJE  SECRET  STORM  Long  ago,  Jane 
Edwards  told  Peter  Ames  that  she  could 
bring  only  trouble,  but  at  the  time  not 
even  she  knew  how  close  her  past  was 
to  making  her  prediction  come  true.  How 
can  Peter  understand  her  renunciation  of 
him  unless  he  knows  the  full  story  of  her 
former  mairriage  to  Skip  Curtis,  who  has 
involved  Jane  along  with  himself  with 
the  FBI?  Can  Jane  bring  herself  to  be 
honest  with  Peter  in  time  to  save  their 
love?   CBS-TV. 

STEEEA  DALLAS  The  tragedy  Stella 
has  fought  for  so  long  to  avert  has  finally 
climaxed  in  Dick  Grosvenor's  quick  Mexi- 
can divorce  from  her  daughter  Laurel. 
But  Stella,  refusing  to  recognize  the  cleav- 
age, desperately  tries  to  keep  Dick  from 
burning  his  bridges  by  marrying  Janice 
Bennett,  hoping  there  may  still  be  a  chance 
to  restore  Laurel's  hafniness.  Is  Stella 
wrong  to  go  on  hopir  ^r  a  reconciUa- 
tion?  Does  Laurel  want  «,,  -  divorce?  NBC 
Radio. 

THIS  IS  NORA  DRAKE  The  revela- 
tion of  the  truly  grim  secret  in  David 
Brown's  past — the  murder  involving  his 
parents — goes  far  to  explain  aU  the  serious 
mental  disturbances  David  has  suffered. 
But  Nora,  trained  in  psychological  obser- 
vation, wonders  if  even  with  professional 
help  David  will  ever  free  himself  from 
the  damaging  influence  of  his  sister  Lor- 


raine, who  seems  determined  to  keep  the 
past  bitterly  alive.   CBS  Radio. 

VALIANT  LADY  Helen  Emerson's  po- 
sition in  town  seems  seciu^e  once  more  as 
the  Children's  Fund  Board  votes  confi- 
dence in  her,  despite  the  ugly  vilifications 
of  Linda  Kendall's  mother.  But  what  hap- 
pens when  Helen,  advised  by  her  daugh- 
ter Diane,  involves  Fund  money  with 
Whitlow  Preston,  Diane's  boss?  Will  the 
alert  Mr.  Norris,  so  deeply  resented  by 
Helen  at  first,  prove  in  the  end  to  be  her 
only  salvation?  CBS-TV. 

WENDY  WARREN  AND  THE  NEWS 

Wendy's  concern  for  the  situation  at  the 
Dalton  home  deepens  as  Linda  shows 
definite  signs  of  strain  too  deep  to  con- 
trol, but  she  is  a  long  way  from  realizing 
the  full  story  behind  Linda's  marriage  to 
Dr.  Peter  Dalton.  Can  Linda  sever  her 
association  with  the  people  who  first  put 
her  into  Peter's  home  for  their  own  sin- 
ister purposes?  Can  she  find  any  way  to 
avert  the  horror  she  knows  hangs  over 
Peter's  head?  CBS  Radio. 

W  HEiV  A  GIRL  MARRIES  Tempera- 
mental star  Clara  Bauer  finds  herself  in 
a  difficult  position  as,  having  treated  Phil 
Stanley  badly  while  he  was  infatuated 
with  her,  she  is  unable  to  turn  to  him  for 
the  help  she  suddenly  needs  so  desperate- 
ly. Will  she  find  Joan  and  Harry  Davis 
as  hostile?  Will  Joan  overcome  her  in- 
stinctive distrust  of  this  woman  long 
enough  to  make  the  mistake  of  extending 
a  helping  hand — a  hand  which  is  sure  to 
be  bitten?  ABC  Radio. 

THE  WOMAN  IN  MY  HOUSE  James 
and  Jessie  Carter  have  long  known  that 
there  are  times  when  a  child  will  not  lis- 
ten to  a  parent's  correction  but  will  take 
it  willingly  from  a  brother  or  sister.  For 
this  reason  Jessie  has  watched  more  or 
less  silently  while  young  Sandy  tries  to 
get  herself  and  her  marriage  to  Mike 
straightened  out,  hoping  that  Sandy's  twin. 
Clay,  would  be  able  to  give  the  help  she 
feels  she  cannot  risk.  NBC  Radio. 

YOUNG  DR.  MALONE  Although  Jerry 
has  refused  to  make  an  issue  of  it,  the 
contrast  between  the  mature,  tmderstand- 
ing  behavior  of  his  adopted  son  David  and 
the  selfish,  trivial  preoccupations  of  his 
own  daughter  Jill  has  given  him  much 
recent  heartache.  His  wife  Tracey  wants 
deeply  to  keep  family  life  on  a  pleasant, 
constructive  keel — but  will  her  own  past 
ever  leave  her  alone?  Will  Ted  Mason 
further  complicate  Jerry  Malone's  life? 
CBS   Radio. 

YOUNG  WIDDER  BROWN  Dr.  An- 
thony Loring's  misguided  marriage 
brought  long  months  of  anguish  to  both 
him  and  his  former  fiance,  Ellen  Brown 
as  both  realized  their  helplessness  to  cor- 
rect the  terrible  mistake  that  seemed  des- 
tined to  ruin  their  lives.  Now  Millicent's 
murder  frees  Anthony — but  frees  him  to 
tragedy  that  may  be  even  more  desperate 
as,  accused  of  the  murder,  he  is  unable  to 
keep  EUen  from  coming  under  grave  sus- 
picion. NBC  Radio. 


Gives  Special  Kind  of 
'Comforting  Warmtli'  for 

KIDS' CHEST 
COLDS 


Promptly  Relieves  Coughs  and  Loosens 
Local  Congestion  —  Aching  Muscles 

Child's  Mild  Musterole  —  made  es- 
pecially for  kiddies'  tender  skin  — 
forms  a  special  protective  "com- 
forting warmth"  on  chest,  throat 
and  back.  It  helps  prevent  kiddies 
from  suffering  distress  all  during 
the  night. 

Musterole  is  highly  recommended 
among  baby  doctors  to  promptly 
relieve  coughs  and  aching  muscles. 
It  starts  right  in  to  loosen  conges- 
tion in  the  nose,  throat  and  large 
bronchial  tubes,  bringing  amazing 
relief.  There's  also  Regular  and 
Extra  Strong  for  adults.  Stainless. 
Buy  it  today! 

c»  MUSTEROLE 


Mild 


Do  your  cosmetics 
feed  the   pimples    tKat 


cloud  your  complexion  5 


Don't  feed — starve  the  invisible 
skin  bacteria  in  pimples  and  black- 
tieads,  that  "disease"  your  com- 
plexion! This  home  facial  complex- 
ion care — Pompeian  Milk  Facial — 
is  pink  magic  to  make  your  skin 
healthier  again.  Bacteriological 
chemists  found  Pompeian's  "zone 
of  inhibition"  2  to  10  times  greater 
than  other  leading  medications  in 
combating  skin  bacteria  that  infect 
your  complexion.  It's  the  milk, 
chemists  say,  that  makes  PC-U— the 
hexachlorophene— sofar  more  effective 
in  bringing  back  a  lovelier  you. 

TEST  IT.PKOVE  IT..  TRIAL  TUBE  Wt 

Send  10c  for  a  trial  tube.  You'll  be 
amazed.  Or  get  Pompeian  at  your  drug- 
gist tonight.  Pompeian  Corp,,  Baltimore 
24,  Md.  DepL  P-1'2 


MILK  FACIAL  CREAM 


85 


Got  the  Sun  in  the  Morning 


(Continued  from  page  53) 
that    being   famous    and    having    a    lot    of 
money  are  not  necessarily  the  best  things 
in  life. 

Bob  was  thirty-seven  years  old,  and  one 
of  the  best-known  personalities  on  TV, 
when  illness  struck  and  nearly  brought  to 
an  end  the  brilliant  career  which  had 
started  back  in  Buffalo,  New  York,  in  1932. 

"It  was  at  5: 30  on  the  morning  of  Labor 
Day,  September  6,  1954,"  Bob  recalls,  "that 
the  attack  came.  I  was  lying  in  bed  asleep, 
when  I  awoke  feeling  ill.  I  didn't  know 
what  it  was,  even  when  the  pain  started 
in  my  chest.  But  Mil,  my  wife,  knew  right 
away,  and  she  called  our  doctor.  He,  in 
turn,  called  a  heart  specialist  and  an  am- 
bulance and  then  came  right  over." 

The  Smiths  live  in  a  three-story,  half- 
timbered  home  on  an  acre  of  well-kept 
grounds  in  New  Rochelle,  a  beautiful  sub- 
urb of  New  York  City.  And  it  was  in  the 
New  Rochelle  hospital  that  Bob  spent  the 
next  twelve  days — in  an  oxygen  tent.  It 
was  touch-and-go  with  him  for  most  of 
that  time.  Then  he  began  to  get  better, 
and  has  improved  ever  since. 

Throughout  the  trying  time  when  Bob 
hovered  between  life  and  death,  his  wife — 
the  former  Mildred  Metz,  also  of  Buffalo — 
visited  his  bedside  as  frequently  and  as 
long  as  she  was  permitted  to.  This  was  no 
simple  matter-of-course,  for  there  were 
two  young  boys  to  look  after,  at  home — 
and  Mil  was  pregnant.  In  fact,  the  Smith's 
third  child  was  born  on  November  first, 
just  eighteen  days  after  Bob  had  left  the 
hospital! 

As  Bob's  heart  began  to  mend  and  he 
was  able  to  lie  comfortably  in  the  hospital 
bed,  his  thoughts  went  back  to  the  kind  of 
life  he  had  led  before  the  attack,  and  also 
to  his  childhood.  The  two  are  inextricably 
mixed. 

Bob  thought  of  his  father,  who  had  died 
when  Bob  was  only  fifteen.  Father  had 
been  a  strong,  muscular  man  who  had 
worked  as  a  coal  miner  in  Illinois  before 
moving  to  Buffalo,  where  Bob  was  born. 
There,  his  father  had  become  a  carpenter 
and,  since  it  was  then  the  depth  of  the 
Depression,  was  unable  to  get  many  jobs. 

"He  worried  himself  to  death,"  Bob  says. 
"It  was  in  1932,  when  things  were  bad  all 
over.  He  would  just  sit  in  the  house,  after 
looking  all  over  for  work,  and  worry  be- 
cause he  wasn't  able  to  get  anything  to  do. 
Yes,  he  just  worried  himself  to  death." 

When  his  father  died.  Bob  had  been 
awarded  a  musical  scholarship  at  Oberlin 
College  in  Ohio.  But,  because  of  the  unex- 
pected blow  to  the  family,  Bob  was  not 
able  to  accept,  though  he  had  planned  to 
become  a  high-school  music  teacher.  Now, 
as  he  lay  in  his  hospital  bed,  Bob's 
thoughts  surely  went  back  to  the  time  that 
he  had  had  to  give  up  that  ambition  and 
take  a  job  with  the  male  trio  called  the 
Hi -Hatters,  who  sang  on  several  Buffalo 
radio  stations.  He  probably  thought,  too, 
of  the  time  that  Kate  Smith  (no  relation) 
brought  the  trio  to  New  York  for  appear- 
ances on  her  network  radio  show. 

This   had   been    the   beginning   of   Bob's 
remarkable  career.  Leaving  the  trio.  Bob 
went  back  to  Buffalo  radio  stations  in  in- 
creasingly  more  important  positions  until 
he  was  brought  back  to  New  York  by  the 
NBC  station  there  to  do  a  morning  show. 
Bob's    popularity    with    New    Yorkers — 
reputedly  the  most  difficult  people  in  the 
country  to  please — was  almost  instantane- 
ous. He  went  on  up  the  ladder  of  success 
T    quickly  until,  at  the  time  of  his  illness,  he 
"    wa.s  doing  an  hour  and  three-quarters  of 
"    radio   and    television    programs — including 
the  very  popular  Howdy  Doody— each  day, 
'ive  days  a  week.  It  was  a  schedule  carried 


by  few  other  people  in  the  business. 

As  Bob  thought  back  over  the  years 
and  the  immediate  past,  he  realized  why 
he  was  lying  there  in  that  hospital  bed.  He 
had  been  pushing  himself  far  too  hard 
over  far  too  many  hours. 

"I  remembered,"  he  says,  "how  tired  and 
irritable  I  used  to  be  when  I  got  home 
from  the  studio  at  night.  After  all,  I'd  been 
at  work  since  early  morning,  working  up 
material  for  the  three  shows — and  there 
was  always  the  routine  paper  work  that 
had  to  be  taken  care  of,  too.  It's  a  wonder 
to  me,  looking  back  on  it,  that  I  stayed  on 
my  feet  as  long  as  I  did." 

Six  weeks  to  the  day  after  he  had  en- 
tered the  hospital,  Bob  Smith  was  able  to 
go  home.  There  hie  stayed  in  bed  a  while 
longer  and  remained  on  the  second  floor 
for  about  another  three  weeks — leaving  it 
only  to  visit  Mil  in  the  hospital  in  celebra- 
tion of  the  birth  of  their  baby,  Christopher. 

"One  of  the  biggest  thrills  of  my  life," 
Bob  says,  "was  the  first  time  I  went  out- 
doors by  myself.  I  remember  it  was  a  cool, 
pleasant  day,  and  the  doctor  made  all  sorts 
of  tests  before  I  was  adjudged  well  enough. 
I  walked  very  slowly,  of  course.  And  I 
walked  around  the  grounds,  just  looking 
at  things  in  general.  It  was  wonderful.  As 
I  say,  it  was  one  of  the  biggest  thrills  of 
my  Ufe." 

Bob  continued  to  take  things  easy,  on 
doctor's  orders,  for  some  time.  When 
Christmas  time  came.  Bob  told  the  doctor 
that  the  Smiths  were  planning  the  usual 
gathering.  Bob's  mother  and  his  sister  and 
brother  were  going  to  come  to  spend  the 
holiday  with  the  Smiths.  The  doctor  put 
his  foot  down.  Bob  was  to  go  away  and 
stay  away  for  the  holidays. 

So  Bob  and  Mil  went  to  Florida  for 
about  a  month.  When  school  let  out,  the 
boys — Robin,    now    13,    and    Ronnie,    12 — 

GIVE— 

Strike   back   at  CANCER 

went  down  to  be  with  their  parents  for  the 
holiday,  while  baby  Chris  stayed  in  New 
Rochelle. 

And  ten  days  after  they  got  back  from 
Florida,  Bob  Smith  went  back  to  work  on 
the  Howdy  Doody  show.  But  there  was  a 
great  difference.  NBC  had  installed  all  the 
equipment  necessary  in  the  cellar  of  Bob's 
home  in  New  Rochelle,  and  Bob  did  the 
show  from  there.  This  meant  that  he  didn't 
have  to  drive  or  take  the  train  all  the  way 
to  the  studio  in  New  York  to  be  on  the 
show. 

And  on  Labor  Day  of  this  year,  1955 — 
just  one  year  after  the  attack — Bob  re- 
turned to  the  studio.  Bob  Smith  is  back  at 
work  again. 

But  there  has  been  a  great  change  in 
Bob  Smith  and  in  his  way  of  life.  The 
change  has  not  been  all  physical,  either. 
For  one  thing.  Bob  has  a  finer  appreciation 
of  the  things  and  the  people  who  mean  the 
most  to  him.  He  sees  to  it  that  he  doesn't 
lose  that  appreciation.  But  most  important 
to  him  are  Mil  and  the  three  boys.  Bob 
makes  it  a  point  to  be  with  them  as  much 
as  possible. 

Bob  cannot  say  too  much  for  the  way 
Mil  rose  to  the  situation  at  the  time  of  his 
attack  and  during  all  the  subsequent  days 
of  tragic  uncertainty.  Bob  is  well  aware 
that  it  was  largely  through  Mil's  wonder- 
ful help  that  he  was  able  to  make  the  re- 
covery he  did — and  he  treats  Mil  accord- 
ingly. There  is  a  much  stronger  rapport 
between  them  now  than  ever  before,  be- 
cause they  have  shared  trouble — -serious 
trouble — and  have  been  able  to  weather 
the  storm. 

The  children  are  also  closer  to  Bob.  For, 


nowadays,  he  has  more  time  to  be  with 
them,  to  follow  their  interests  and  help 
them  solve  their  problems.  Both  of  the 
older  boys  are  members  of  a  Little  League 
baseball  team  and  Bob  is  rightfully  proud 
of  the  fact.  He  makes  it  a  point  to  watch 
them  play  as  often  as  he  can,  which  is  fre- 
quently. And  you  can  be  sure  that  Chris, 
the  youngest  addition  to  the  family,  comes 
in  for  a  great  deal  of  attention,  too. 

Since  Bob  has  had  a  chance  to  change 
his  way  of  life,  he  has  taken  up  a  sport 
which  is  as  old  as  time  itself,  but  which  he 
had  never  indulged  in  before.  He  goes 
fishing.  One  of  the  cronies  with  whom  he 
fishes,  as  often  as  possible,  is  the  heart 
specialist  whose  work  was  instrumental  in 
saving  Bob's  life.  Another  fisherman  who 
goes  out  with  Bob  freaueiitiv  is  Ford 
Frick,  the  baseball  commissioner. 

At  his  doctor's  insistence.  Bob  has 
learned  to  relax.  He  is  no  longer  as  tense 
as  he  had  become  in  previous  years.  He 
doesn't  let  things  upset  him  as  he  used  to. 
He  has  learned  to  move  more  slowly,  too. 

One  of  the  great  benefits  of  Bob's  new 
spirit  of  relaxation  has  been  his  fresh  ap- 
preciation of  the  things  around  him.  He 
has  time  now  to  observe  those  things 
which  had  always  been  there  but  which 
he,  in  his  hurry,  had  not  seen.  The  trait 
has  added  richness  to  his  life. 

Another  thing  that  has  come  into  Bob's 
life  is  compassion.  True,  it  may  have  been 
there  all  along,  but  his  nearly  fatal  expe- 
rience has  brought  it  to  the  fore. 

For  instance,  Bob  has  made  a  study  of 
heart  disease — both  so  that  he  could  un- 
derstand his  own  condition  the  better,  and 
also  so  that  he  could  help  other  peox)le 
who  are  not  familiar  with  its  effects.  He 
likes  to  explain  to  those  who  are  interest- 
ed that,  while  a  heart  attack  is  a  serious 
illness,  it  is  not  something  to  be  feared 
nearly  so  much  as  many  people  do  fear  it. 
He  points  out  that  statistics  show  that  a 
large  majority  of  people  suffering  their 
first  attacks  survive  and  thereafter  are 
usually  able  to  lead  completely  normal 
and  full  lives. 

Bob  is  much  concerned  with  the  public's 
indifference  to  the  need  for  supporting  re- 
search into  heart  disease,  one  of  the  most 
frequently-occurring  illnesses  in  the  coun- 
try. He  mentions  figures  showing  the  pub- 
lic's contributions  to  polio  and  heart  funds 
in  a  given  year — when,  for  every  death 
from  polio,  the  public  contributed  $13,4^0 
and,  for  every  death  by  heart  disease,  the 
public  donations  were  seven  cents.  And, 
of  course,  he  urges  regular  medical  exami- 
nations so  the  doctor  can  discover  any 
possible  beginnings  of  heart  trouble. 

Bob  Smith  has  recovered  from  his  heart 
attack.  But  he  has  a  great  many  things  to 
be  grateful  for,  besides  his  recovery.  He  is 
well  aware  of  them  all. 

He  is  grateful  for  his  wife.  Mil,  and  her 
great  work  in  helping  him  get  well,  and 
for  the  added  closeness  that  their  experi- 
ence has  allowed  them  to  share.  He  is 
grateful  for  his  children  and  their  help  in 
his  getting  better,  too. 

He  is  grateful  for  having  learned  to  ap- 
preciate the  things  around  him  more  deep- 
ly, the  everyday  things  which  other  peo- 
ple take  for  granted  in  their  hurry  but 
which  Bob  observes  with  new  insight  be- 
cause he  has  relaxed  and  has  the  time  for 
seeing. 

He  knows  now  that  the  simpler  things  in 
life,  the  things  and  the  people  around  him, 
are  the  most  important,  and  that  fame  and 
money  are  not. 

Bob  Smith  is  a  happier  man  today — be- 
cause of  his  experience  in  the  valley  of  the 
shadow.  For  him,  the  sun  shines  with  a 
special  brightness,  and  all  the  world  is  new. 


He'll  Always  Be  Grateful 


(Continued  frovi  page  36) 
about  was  the  years  of  frustration,  inde- 
cision, insecurity  and  outright  poverty 
his  father  had  to  go  through  before  win- 
ning a  measure  of  success  and  recognition. 
Nor  could  he  anticipate  that,  within  a 
couple  of  weeks,  his  dad  who  "hardly 
ever  worked"  would  be  one  of  Holly- 
wood's busiest  actors,  under  contract  to 
star  as  Marshal  Matt  Dillon  in  the  TV 
version  of  CBS's  famous  radio  serial, 
Gunsmoke. 

Produced  as  a  quality  show,  with  a 
painstaking  care  almost  unheard  of  in  the 
average  "Western,"  Gunsvioke  is  keeping 
Jim  Arness  on  a  schedule  requiring  him 
to  use  Saturdays  and  Sundays  for  learn- 
ing his  lines,  with  the  rest  of  the  week — 
from  seven  in  the  morning  and  frequently 
until  ten  or  eleven  o'clock  at  night — taken 
up  with  rehearsals  and  actual  shooting. 
Arness,  however,  has  no  objections  to 
this  sudden  acceleration  of  his  activities. 
"I  like  to  work."  he  says,  stretching  his 
six-foot,  six-inch,  235-pound  fram«  reck- 
lessly in  a  light  canvas  chair.  "Working 
every  day,  every  week,  is  exactly  what  I 
needed  and  wanted.  It's  the  kind  of  ex- 
perience I  have  to  have,  if  I  am  to  develop 
further  as  an  actor.  You  can't  stand  still, 
you  know.  You  either  keep  growing  or 
get  out.  There  is  no  other  choice." 

Growing,  in  more  ways  than  one,  is  one 
of  the  things  James  Arness  has  made  a 
specialty  of  in  the  thirty  years  of  his  life. 
Sitting  opposite  the  huge  man,  his  heavy 
shoulders  slightly  hunched,  the  clear 
blue  eyes  looking  out  at  you  openly  from 
the  clean-cut,  strong-jawed  lines  of  his 
virile  face,  you  can  readily  understand 
why  producer  Charles  Marquis  Warren, 
after  testing  a  long  line  of  other  candi- 
dates, insisted  on  having  none  but  Arness 
for  the  part  of  the  legendary  law  enforce- 
ment officer  of  Dodge  City,  Kansas. 

Everything  about  Jim  Arness  conveys 
strength,  reliability,  honesty.  There  isn't 
a  trace  of  guile  or  cunning  anywhere. 
Starting  at  the  crinkles  in  the  corners  of 
his  eyes  and  spreading  almost  simultane- 
ously to  his  even,  white  teeth,  his  ready 
smile  lights  up  his  whole  face  with  friend- 
liness. A  giant  of  a  man,  he  exudes  the 
unshakable  calm,  self-confidence  and 
righteousness  you  would  naturally  ex- 
pect in  someone  possessing  his  physical 
strength   and   commanding  presence. 

It  is  a  valid  impression.  But  it  is  never- 
theless one  which  successfully  conceals 
the  inner  turmoil  and  insecurity  Jim  had 
to  conquer  before  coming  to  terms  with 
himself  and  achieve  his  present  serenity. 

Being  tall  is  usually  considered  an  asset. 
But  being  too  tall,  when  you're  still  quite 
young,  can  be  as  much  of  a  handicap  as 
being  too  short.  Jim  Arness  reached  his 
present  height  of  six-feet-six  when  he 
was  only  fourteen.  Weighing  a  mere  150 
pounds,  he  was  a  walking  skeleton,  pain- 
fully self-conscious  of  towering  over 
everybody  else.  Too  good-natured  to  make 
reprisals,  he  was  the  butt  of  constant 
jokes  about  his  beanstalk  conformation. 
The  cracks  only  became  more  insistent 
when  he  was  unable  to  hide  his  embar- 
rassment. Shy  and  easily  hurt,  he  began 
to  withdraw  into  himself. 

It  was  in  those  years  of  his  early  teens 
that  Jim  first  discovered  the  restlessness 
in  him  which  led  to  a  period  of  many 
years  of  drifting  and  floundering.  He  be- 
gan to  run  away  from  school,  to  ride 
freight  trains,  to  go  off  into  the  Minnesota 
wilderness  to  hunt  and  fish.  He  always 
came  back  for  a  new  try  at  the  kind  of 
normal  life  all  the  other  kids  in  Minne- 
apolis were  leading.  But  the  yearning  for 


adventure  persisted.  The  quest  for  some- 
thing he  couldn't  name,  or  put  mto  words, 
always  kept  pulling  at  him. 

Jim's  love  of  the  outdoors,  encouraged 
by  his  father,  was  the  one  thing  that 
helped  him  keep  his  emotional  balance. 
When  he  was  out  camping,  sitting  in  a 
duck  blind  in  freezing  weather,  or  pad- 
dling a  canoe  across  a  Minnesota  lake,  he 
was  happy.  But,  coming  from  a  respect- 
able middle- class  family,  he  knew  that 
someday  he'd  have  to  give  up  this  wild 
and  aimless  wandering  and  settle  down 
to  learn  a  profession  or  a  trade.  His 
father's  father  had  been  a  doctor  who 
came  over  from  Norway  and  settled  in 
Minneapolis.  His  father  was  a  successful 
salesman,  his  mother  a  journalist.  Jim 
realized  that  he,  too,  would  have  to  be 
something  more  than  just  a  vagabond. 
But  what?  There  was  nothing  he  really 
wanted  to  do,  though  he  was  willing  to 
give  almost  anything  a  try. 

Pearl  Harbor  gave  Jim  a  chance  to 
postpone  his  decision.  As  soon  as  he  was 
graduated  from  high  school,  he  enlisted 
in  the  Army — after  being  rejected  by  the 
Navy  because  of  his  height. 

If  he  was  looking  for  adventure,  he 
certainly  got  plenty  of  it  while  he  was 
in  the  service.  Like  most  combat  vet- 
erans, Jim  is  reluctant  to  talk  about  it. 
He  was  on  the  Anzio  beachhead,  saw  his 
company  wiped  out,  narrowly  missed  death 
himself  three  times  in  a  row,  had  his  leg 
shot  up  badly — and  was  decorated.  After 
that,  he  spent  a  year  and  a  half  in  Army 
and  veterans'  hospitals  waiting  for  his 
leg  to  mend.  Weakened  by  osteomyelitis, 
it  still  bothers  him  at  times,  and  he  re- 
ceives government  compensation  for  his 
injuries. 

After  his  discharge,  Jim  went  back  to 
Minneapolis  and  enrolled  as  a  student  at 
the  University  of  Minnesota.  But  his  heart 
wasn't  in  his  studies.  He  also  took  a  course 
in  radio  announcing,  and  liked  that  better, 
getting  a  disc-jockey  show  of  his  own  for 
a  while.  At  that  time  he  also  renewed  a 
high-school  interest  in  the  theater,  taking 
parts  in  several  little-theater  productions. 
None  of  it.  however,  captured  his  imagina- 
tion. It  still  wasn't  whatever  it  was  he  was 
looking  for.  When  a  friend  suggested  a 
triD  +o  California,  Jim  joined  him  with- 
out thinking  twice  about  it. 

"What  really  attracted  me  to  California 
was  the  climate,  the  chance  to  get  away 
from  those  Minnesota  winters,"  he  smiles. 
"I  had  no  serious  intentions — or  delusions 
— about  getting  into  the  movies." 

The  year,  however,  was  1945,  when 
young  male  talent  was  as  scarce  as  zip- 
pers, steaks  and  cigarettes — and  Jim 
landed  an  acting  job,  and  subsequently  a 
movie  assignment,  without  so  much  as 
half  trying  for  it.  Cast  in  a  Hollywood 
stage  production  of  "Four  Hours  to 
Kill,"  he  was  spotted  by  an  agent,  invited 
to  take  a  screen  test  (which  flopped) ,  and 
almost  immediately  thereafter  given  a 
part  as  one  of  Loretta  Young's  brothers 
in  the  Academy  Award-winning  film, 
"The  Farmer's  Daughter." 

By  the  time  he  had  finished  this  picture, 
personable  young  men  were  returning  to 
Hollywood  in  droves,  and  Jim  found  that 
producers  weren't  exactly  hollering  for 
his  services  any  longer.  It  didn't  particu- 
larly bother  him.  He'd  been  in  California 
long  enough  to  discover  the  Pacific  Ocean 
— and  Jim  approved  of  it  thoroughly. 
With  the  money  saved  from  his  film  debut, 
he  acquired  a  1936  Buick,  then  headed 
straight   for    the    beaches. 

Like  so  many  other  land-locked  Mid- 
westerners,    Jim    Arness    is    passionately 


CINDY  WALKER  S^R  DOLL 

With  Long,  Silky,  Washable  SARAN  Hair 

•  She  Walks— Sits— 
Sleeps — Stands 

•  Turns  Head  As 
She  Walks 

•  "Magic  Action" 
Legs 

•  Completely 
Washable 

•  Unbreakable 
Construction 

•  Guaranteed  Walk- 
ing Mechanism 

•  LARGE  14"  TALL 
CINDY   DOES 
EVERYTHING 

Nationally  Adver- 
tised at  $5.95 
SENSATIONAL  $0.98 
VALUE-ONLY   ^ £. 
plus  50c  shipping  or 

_  C.O.D.  plus  postage 

So  Litelike  you'll  think  she's  a  real  girl  walking  with 
her  little  mother.  Cindy  Walker  is  beautifully  formed, 
even  to  the  small  details  of  finger  nails,  dimples  and 
creases  in  her  chubby  arms  and  legs.  She  assumes  and 
will  hold  (no  flopping)  all  lifelike  positions.  Cindy  can 
be  washed,  dressed  and  undressed  in  standard  14  doll 
costumes.  Her  hair  can  be  washed  and  combed;  her 
pigtails  braided  and  set  in  any  fashion  desired  Noth- 
ing can  go  wrong  with  her  working  parts  and  she  is 
molded  of  the  new  shockproof  plastic  that  assures 
years  and  years  of  loving  play.  Cindy  Walker  is  the 
answer  to  every  girl's  prayers.  Commended  by  Parents 
Magazine.  Union-Made  in  U.S.A.  by  skilled  American 
workers.  Satisfaction  Unconditionally  Guaranteed! 
Price  includes  dress  illustrated.  „„„ 

CINDY  WALKER  IS  ALSO  AVAILABLE  IN  THE 
LARGEST  SIZE  MADE— 23"  TALL  WITH  GENUINE 
MAMA  VOICE.  Nationally  advertised  at  $15.95.  OUR 
PRICE  $5.95  plus  50c  shipping  or  C.O.D.  plus  postage. 
REGULAR  SIZE  CINDY  WALKER  20'  TALL  WITH 
GENUINE  MAMA  VOICE.  Nationally  advertised  at 
$9.95.  OUR  PRICE— $3.98  plus  50c  shipping  or  C.O.D. 
plus    postage. 

NOW  YOU  CAN  DRESS  CINDY.   TOO— 
SAVE  MORE  THAN  50%  ON  HER  CLOTHING 


STYLE 


14" SIZE  20" SIZE  23"  SIZE 


HAT  &  COAT  ENSEMBLE 
BRIDAL  ENSEMBLE 
PLAID  VINYL  RAINCAPE 
BALLERINA   OUTFIT 
HOSTESS  COAT 
SHEER    NIGHTGOWN 


79« 

98« 

$1.10 

98« 

$1.49 

$1.79 

29< 

39« 

49< 

49< 

98« 

$1.10 

29< 

69< 

79< 

39« 

59< 

69« 

SPECIAL  PRICE  IF  YOU 
ORDER  ALL  SIX  OUTFITS 


$2.98       $3.98       $4.98 


P.  J.  Hill  Co.,  Dept.  P-344.  Newark  I.N.J. 


AMAZING   NEW  FORMULA   FOR 

PSORIASIS 

Scales   must   Disappear  .   .   .  Spots    Lighten   .    .    . 

OR  lin  PflCT  No  matter  how  l»nB  you've  suffered,  or 
n  nu  UUO  I  |,o„  aggravated  your  case  may  be — try 
this  newest,  guaranteed  medical  discovery  for  ugly,  em- 
barrassing scaly  skin.  Case  after  case  reports  faster  relief. 
MERISAN  tends  to  remove  scaly  crusts  on  outer  skin  layer, 
helping  natural  healing  of  spots.  Non-greasy,  non-toxic. 
Will  not  stain  clothes  or  bedding.  Thrill  to  the  joy  of  a 
clear  skin.  NO  COST  TO  YOU.  Simply  send  name  and 
address  for  complete  information  on  how  you  may  try 
MERISAN  for  two  full  weeks  on  positive  guarantee  of 
satisfaction  or  money  back.  Sent  FREE  and  postpaid  in 
plain  envelope.  Write  today. 
Merisan  Co.,  Box  1908,  Dept.  141,  Birmingham,  Ala. 


ENJOY  A   PERMANENT, 
kBIG  PAY  CAREER  as  a 


|i\  PRACTICAL 
NURSE 


EARN  AT  HOME  WHILE  LEARNING 

FREE  SAMPLE  LESSON  shows  how  easily  you  can 
become  a  professionally  trained  practical  nurse 
by  home  study  in  a  short  time.  NO  HIGH 
SCHOOL  NEEDED.    No  age  limit. 

FOR    FREE    LESSON    and 
FULL  INFORMATION 


I  Post   Graduate   Hospital  j 

I  School  of  Nursing  ! 

9D125  Auditorium  BIdg.  I 

I  Chicago  5,  Illinois  | 

I  Name I 

I  I 

I  Address ■ 

j  City State | 


87 


fond  of  the  sea.  To  this  day,  when  he  is 
troubled  or  upset,  he  finds  something  like 
a  spiritual  rebirth  in  the  salty  waters  of 
the  Pacific  Ocean.  A  superb  swimmer 
and  surfboard  rider,  he  likes  to  spend 
entire  days  in  and  out  of  the  water, 
forgetting  his  worries  and  returning  re- 
freshed and  cleansed.  Having  no  responsi- 
bilities except  to  himself,  the  beach  be- 
came Jim's  home  in  those  days.  "I  was 
sort  of  a  surf-bum,"  he  explains,  "a  kind 
of  beachcomber.  I  lived  from  one  day  to 
the  next  and  refused  to  worry  about  any- 
thing." He  spent  some  time  in  Mexico, 
returning  to  Southern  California  only  after 
his  money  ran  out,  but  continuing  his 
casual  style  of  living,  scraping  by  on  prac- 
tically no  money  at  all. 

That's  how  Virginia  Chapman,  a  young 
actress  whom  he  was  to  marry,  found  him 
in  the  summer  of  1948.  Falling  in  love 
with  Virginia  was  to  be  the  turning  point 
in  his  life. 

Virginia  was  playing  "Candida"  at  the 
Pasadena  Playhouse  when  a  mutual  friend 
brought  Jim  around  to  meet  her.  As  luck 
would  have  it,  her  leading  man  was  forced 
to  drop  out  of  the  play  on  short  notice 
and  Jim  was  drafted  to  take  over  the  part 
of  her  stage  husband. 

As  deeply  in  love  with  Jim  now  as  she 
was  when  she  fell  for  the  big  guy  eight 
years  ago,  Virginia's  eyes  sparkle  as  she 
reminisces  about  their  courtship.  "I  fell 
hard  for  Jim  the  minute  I  laid  eyes  on 
him,"  she  relates.  "Aside  from  his  good 
looks,  there  was  something  so  clean,  decent 
and  kindly  about  him  that  it  made  him 
stand  out  as  a  very  unusual  person." 

Jim,  however,  was  no  easy  quarry,  and 
Virginia  had  to  employ  all  the  feminine 
wiles  at  her  command  before  she  bagged 
him.  "I  knew  he  was  in  love  with  me, 
too,"  she  says,  "when  he  backed  away 
from  embracing  me  during  rehearsals.  It 
showed  that  it  meant  something  to  him, 
that  it  wasn't  anything  he  could  bring 
himself   to    do   lightly." 

Though  he  continued  to  struggle  for  a 
while,  Jim's  fate  was  sealed,  from  that 
moment  on.  Asking  him  to  hook  up  the 
back  of  her  dress  each  night  before  they 
went  on  stage,  Virginia  enjoyed  the  quiver 
of  emotion  that  passed  through  Jim 
whenever  his  hand  touched  her  shoulder. 
But  she  had  to  pretend  to  fall  asleep  on 
his  shoulder  one  night,  when  he  was  tak- 
ing her  home  from  the  theater,  before  Jim 
broke  down  and  kissed  her. 

Overwhelmingly,    blissfully,    blindly    in 


love  though  they  both  were,  even  to  con- 
sider marriage  took  quite  a  bit  of  courage 
at  that  point.  Virginia  had  a  year-old 
baby  from  a  previous  marriage  whom  she 
had  to  support  and,  at  the  rate  Jim  had 
been  going  till  then,  she  was  afraid  she 
might  have  to  support  him,  as  well.  Since 
his  one  movie  part  three  years  earlier, 
he'd  earned  practically  no  money  at  all. 
He  had  no  clothes  outside  of  some  jeans 
and  T-shirts,  some  of  his  better  things 
having  come  to  rest  in  various  pawn  shops. 
Each  time  he  picked  Virginia  up  in  his 
car  to  take  her  to  Pasadena,  it  was  touch- 
and-go  whether  they  had  enough  gas  to 
make  it  there.  And  once,  when  she  asked 
him  to  buy  her  an  ice  cream  cone,  Jim 
stalled  till  she  found  out  that  he  didn't 
have  a  single  dime  in  his  pocket  and 
couldn't  afford  the  splurge.  (There  was 
no  salary  involved  in  playing  the  Pasa- 
dena Playhouse.)  And  Jim  still  weighed 
only  about  180  pounds,  at  the  time,  a 
condition  which  Virginia  today  discern- 
ingly  attributes   to   chronic   lack    of   food. 

More  forbidding  than  the  total  absence 
of  money,  however,  was  Jim's  apparent 
lack  of  prospects.  "I  was  convinced  he 
had  a  lot  of  talent,"  Virginia  says,  "but 
he  was  completely  unfocused  at  the  time. 
He  still  had  no  idea  what  he  wanted  to 
do,  and  there  wasn't  really  anything  he 
could  do  well.  At  least,  not  anything 
likely  to  bring  in  a  weekly  paycheck." 

If  financial  considerations  worried 
the  young  folks,  these  happily  didn't  con- 
cern Virginia's  parents.  Recognizing  Jim's 
basic  qualities  and  knowing  how  deeply 
these  two  were  in  love  with  each  other, 
they  reversed  the  conventional  behavior 
of  prospective  in-laws,  threw  prudence  to 
the  winds  and  did  all  they  could  to  en- 
courage them.  A  camping  trip,  indulgently 
chaperoned  by  Virginia's  parents,  helped 
them  make  up  their  minds. 

They  were  married  shortly  thereafter  in 
Santa  Barbara,  Jim  wearing  a  suit  he'd 
bought  with  funds  borrowed  from  his  in- 
laws. After  the  honeymoon — a  wedding 
present  from  Virginia's  parents — they  set 
up  housekeeping  in  a  small,  twenty-dol- 
lar-a-month  apartment,  and  Virginia 
took  a  job  in  her  father's  china-importing 
firm.  Jim,  too,  tried  working  there  for  a 
while.  But,  being  obviously  misplaced  in 
a  china  shop,  he  quit  shortly  and  tried  his 
hand  at  other  occupations. 

"He  really  tried,"  Virginia  says,  "but  he 
simply  wasn't  cut  out  for  commerce."  He 
got  himself  a  job  selling  advertising  for  a 


We  were  drifting  apart 

Another  marriage  might  have  been'  wrecked  if  it 
hadn't  been  for  radio's  "My  True  Story."  For  this  is 
the  program  that  shows  you  how  real-life  people 
have  averted  tragedy  in  their  own  lives.  When  you 
tune  in  to  these  stories — which  are  right  from  the 
files  of  "True  Story  Magazine" — ^you  may  easily  rec- 
ognize your  friends  .  .  .  your  neighbors  .  .  .  even 
your  own  loved  ones.     So  be  sure  to  listen. 

TUNE   IN 

"MY  TRUE  STORY" 

American  Broadcasting  Stations 

Here  it  is-  the  $5000  PRIZE  STORY— in  December  TRUE  STORY  MAGAZINE  at 
newsstands  now.  Don't  miss  "WOMAN  REDEEMED."  From  degradation  to 
decency! 


Los  Angeles  newspaper,  switched  to  door- 
to-door  canvassing  and  eventually  to  real 
estate.  "I  was  a  complete  flop,"  Jim  admits 
with  a  sheepish  grin.  "I  had  a  pretty  good 
time  talking  to  people,  but  I  just  never 
sold   anything." 

After  about  four  months  of  this,  Vir- 
ginia persuaded  him  to  go  back  to  acting, 
but  to  approach  it  soberly  and  treat  it  as 
a  business  proposition.  Analyzing  his  as- 
sets, they  decided  that  he  was  obviously 
the  rugged  he-man  type  and  that  this  was 
what  he  had  to  sell  to  producers.  As  a 
result  of  their  discussion,  Jim  stopped 
shaving,  grew  a  luxuriant  beard  and  ap- 
peared for  interviews  wearing  a  red  flan- 
nel shirt  and  jeans. 

Within  a  month,  the  new  strategy  paid 
off  when  Dore  Schary,  who'd  given  him 
his  first  break  in  "The  Farmer's  Daughter" 
— cast  him  in  his  production  of  "Battle- 
ground." Jim  has  been  working  ever  since. 
"Every  year  has  been  a  little  better  than 
the  previous  one,"  says  Virginia.  "It's  like 
a  business.  You  stick  to  it,  and  it  can't 
help   growing." 

Jim  gives  full  credit  to  his  wife  for 
helping  him  find  himself  and  become  suc- 
cessful in  his  career.  "Without  Ginny  I'd 
probably  still  be  floundering  on  some 
beach,"  he  says.  "I  depend  on  her  a  lot 
for  just  about  everything.  If  it  weren't 
for  Ginny,  I  probably  wouldn't  have  had 
the  drive  and  incentive  to  get  anywhere." 

Three  further — and  very  considerable — 
incentives  for  Jim  are  the  children:  Craig; 
eight;  Jennie  Lee,  six;  and  RoK,  four.  He 
disclaims  having  any  favorite  among  them, 
though  Jennie  Lee  is  most  like  him  in 
appearance  and  manner.  All  three  of  them 
are  enthusiastic  swimmers,  of  course,  and 
real  companions  for  their  father  on  his 
occasional  "beachcombing"  days.  The 
Arness  house  in  Pacific  Palisades  has  no 
swimming  pool  but  is  less  than  a  mile 
from  the  beach  and  has  a  view  of  the 
ocean.  With  his  great  love  for  the  sea, 
that's  about  the  farthest  away  Jim  Arness 
would  ever  want  to  be  from  it  again. 

The  Arnesses  moved  to  Pacific  Palisades 
as  soon  as  they  could  afford  a  small  home 
of  their  own — about  five  years  ago — and 
stayed  within  a  mile  of  their  original  lo- 
cation when  they  moved  to  a  larger  house 
three  years  later.  Situated  on  a  beautiful 
piece  of  ground  with  large  old  elms, 
birches  and  a  towering  oak  tree,  their 
house  is  a  rambling,  three-bedroom  ar- 
rangement, with  rooms  sufficiently  large 
to  keep  a  big  man  like  Jim  from  getting 
claustrophobia.  He  sleeps  in  a  king-size, 
seven-by-seven-and-a-half-foot  bed — and 
wears  bed  socks,  just  in  case  his  feet 
should  stick  out  and  get  cold.  When  he 
needs  privacy  and  wants  to  get  away  for 
a  while  from  the  hubbub  of  a  busy,  happy 
house,  he  climbs  up  into  his  oak  tree, 
where  he  has  built  himself  a  tree  house. 
He  frequently  studies  his  scripts  there, 
too. 

Ordinarily;  though,  there  is  nothing  Jim 
likes  better  than  to  play  and  roughhouse 
with  the  children.  Frequently,  he  takes 
on  as  many  as  a  dozen  or  fifteen  children 
of  assorted  sizes — including  his  own  young- 
sters— fighting  them  in  a  mock  battle.  He's 
long  been  highly  popular  with  all  the 
children  in  his  area  and,  with  Gunstnoke. 
being  shown  in  the  early  evening,  in  the 
Los  Angeles  area,  he's  rapidly  becoming 
something  of  an  idol  to  them. 

Not  quite  so  impressed  with  his  father's 
prowess  as  chief  law  enforcement  officer 
of  Dodge  City,  Kansas,  however,  is  his  son, 
Craig.  As  part  of  getting  in  trim  for  his 
role,  Jim  had  gone  around  the  house  for 
days,  practicing  quick  draws  with  his 
gun.  Craig  decided  to  get  into  the  act, 
broke  his  piggy  bank  and  bought  himself 
a  holster  and  gun,  too.  After  watching  his 
father  for  a  while  and  practicing  on  his 
own,    he    one    day    confronted    him    and 


drew.  "You're  dead,"  he  announced  tri- 
umphantly, seeing  his  dad's  hand  was  still 
on  his  hip.    "I  beat  you  to  the  draw." 

Jim  got  even  with  his  "elder  son"  by 
reminding  him  how  Craig  had  hollered  in 
fright  a  couple  of  years  earlier  at  the 
sight  of  the  giant  papier-mache  ants,  when 
Jim  was  acting  in  the  movie,  "Them,"  and 
Virginia  had  taken  the  boy  for  a  visit  to 
the  set. 

Aside  from  playing  and  fooling  with 
them,  Jim  is  an  excellent  and  devoted 
father  who's  never  shirked  his  share  of  the 
job  of  bringing  them  up.  "Even  when  the 
children  were  very  small,"  his  wife  says, 
"I  never  had  to  worry  about  leaving  them 
with  their  father.  With  all  his  size,  he's 
very  competent,  gentle,  tender  and  careful 
with  them.  He  can  be  strict,  too,  but  he's 
usually  very  patient.  All  three  of  them 
adore  him,  of  course." 

Jim  has  an  additional  domestic  virtue, 
in  that  he  can  cook — and  cook  well.  He 
can  even  bake,  and  will  whip  up  a  cho- 
colate layer  cake  on  practically  no  provo- 
cation. Needless  to  say,  considering  his 
size,  he  also  loves  to  eat — three  or  four 
helpings  of  everything  at  each  meal. 

As  against  these  virtues,  his  principal 
failing  from  his  wife's  point  of  view,  is  his 
habit  of  dropping  his  clothes  wherever  he 
happens  to  take  them  off.  Another  is  that, 
to  this   day,   he   hates   putting  more   than 


a  dollar's  worth  of  gasoline  into  the  car 
at  one  time  and  is  apt  to  run  out  of  gas  at 
unexpected  moments.  Having  simple 
taste,  he  drives  a  Chewy  coupe  and  his 
wife  has  a  Pontiac  station  wagon  of 
none-too-recent  vintage.  About  the  only 
material  possession  Jim  dreams  of  having 
is  a  fine  sailing  boat  of  his  own.  He 
hopes  to  be  able  to  buy  one  next  sum- 
mer from  his  television  proceeds. 

He  is  more  reluctant  to  talk  about  an- 
other dream  of  his,  a  dream  of  an  addi- 
tional career  as  a  singer.  "Jim  has  the 
most  beautiful;  golden  Wagnerian  tenor 
you  ever  heard,"  says  "Virginia,  ever  the 
loyal  booster.  "I've  heard  competent 
critics  say  he  could  sing  at  the  Met  even 
now.  But  Jim  is  a  perfectionist.  He  won't 
do  anything,  won't  even  talk  about  it, 
until  he  knows  he's  quite,  quite  ready." 

Even  with  his  present,  crowded  schedule, 
he  manages  to  squeeze  in  three  lessons  a 
week.  And  it  can  be  taken  for  granted 
that  he  wouldn't  waste  his  time  unless 
there  were  solid  promise  for  success. 

For,  with  all  his  easygoing  manner,  Jim 
Arness  is  essentially  a  serious  man.  His 
drifting  days  are  over.  He  has  found  his 
field,  has  hit  his  stride,  and  intends  to 
grow   and   keep   going. 

As  producer  Charles  Marquis  Warren 
puts  it,  "Jim  is  a  big  guy.  A  big  guy 
inside   and   out." 


More  Than  Anyone  Could  Ask 


(Continued  from,  page  49) 
flagstoned  outdoor  terrace,  and  to  a  large, 
flat     rectangle      of     ground     where     the 
Beckers  hope  one  day  to  put  in  a  swim- 
ming pool. 

The  house  is  white,  with  some  green 
trim.  There  are  three  floors  and  the  base- 
ment. Every  part  of  it  is  well  lived-in, 
and  none  of  it  is  off -bounds  to  the  chil- 
dren. Everything  in  it  belongs  to  the 
family.  "Although  the  hi-fi  is  really 
Ruth's,"  Sandy  says,  a  twinkle  in  his  eye. 
"Her  birthday  is  in  January,  and  I  gave 
it  to  her  for  a  present.  I  told  her  that,  for 
my  birthday  in  February,  she  could  give 
me  some  real  pretty  dresses  that  she 
wanted.    And  she  did!" 

The  pets  belong  to  everybody — except 
that  Jeb,  the  blue  parrakeet,  is  an  inde- 
pendent soul  who  recognizes  no  master, 
and  Goldie,  the  new  canary-colored  baby 
parrakeet,  seems  to  have  adopted  Ruth. 
Jocko,  the  dog,  as  gentle  as  he  is  huge, 
is  the  children's  delight. 

Hajji  Baba,  the  dwarf  parrot,  appears 
with  Sandy  on  his  TV  shows  for  children. 
"He's  the  one  who  works  for  a  living,"  says 
Sandy.  "He's  not  nearly  so  big  as  the 
usual  parrot.  Looks  rather  like  a  parra- 
keet with  thyroid  trouble,  I'd  say."  Hajji 
rides  back  and  forth  from  home  to  studio 
every  day  with  Sandy,  in  his  own  small 
"cuckoo  clock"  house,  which  Sandy  made 
for  him.  "Makes  him  think  he's  a  cuckoo," 
Sandy  explains.  "Sometimes  I  suspect  he 
has  forgotten  he  ever  was  a  parrot." 

Hajji  always  breakfasts  with  Sandy. 
Ruth  brings  breakfast  up  on  a  tray.  And, 
if  the  parrot's  coffee  is  too  hot,  or  not 
sugared  sufficiently,  or  the  toast  is  missing, 
he  sets  up  a  scream.  He  scolds  the  chil- 
dren sometimes,  too,  but  they  all  know  he 
doesn't  mean  a  word  of  it  and  that,  inside 
his  lovely  green  plumage,  there  is  a  heart 
full  of  affection  for  all  the  Beckers. 

Each  child  has  his  own  collection  of  fish, 
besides  the  four  tanks  in  Sandy's  room. 
Joyce  has  gone  in  for  guppies  in  such  a 
big  way,  they  threaten  to  take  over  the 
whole  tank  in  her  room.  She's  a  com- 
bination of  both  parents  in  looks,  manner 
and  interests.  "Three  parts  Ruth's  soft 
Southern  beauty   and   good   manners,   and 


only  one  part  my  foolish  ways,"  Sandy 
describes  Joyce,  fondly.  Annelle  is  very 
like  Ruth,  too,  but  Curt  is  his  daddy's 
boy.  He  is  Sandy's  shadow  on  the  days  at 
home,  wanting  to  help  with  everything  he 
does. 

Both  Ruth  and  Sandy  are  excellent 
craftsmen,  handy  at  doing  dozens  of  things. 
The  long  red  sofa  in  the  living  room  is  a 
piece  they  picked  up  at  an  auction  and 
re-covered,  along  with  some  chairs  to 
match.  They  did  all  the  wallpapering  and 
the  inside  painting  in  the  house,  and  Ruth 
made  all  the  drapes.  Sandy  cut  down  a 
big,  heavy  Italian  table  which  the  former 
owners  of  the  house  left  for  them — a  piece 
of  furniture  they  liked  but  couldn't  seem 
to  fit  in  anywhere.  He  turned  it  into  an 
unusually  lovely  coffee  table.  The  cut 
crystal  lamp  bases  were  an  old  water 
pitcher  and  a  squat  vase,  now  wired  and 
mounted  on  silver  bases  by  Sandy.  Shaded 
in  red,  by  Ruth,  they  are  quite  gorgeous. 

Sandy  does  sculpture,  really  good  things 
and  all  self-taught,  a  hobby  he  began  to 
develop  as  a  small  boy  when  his  parents 
gave  him  his  first  puppetry  set  and  he 
started  to  carve  out  new  heads  for  his 
puppet  characters.  He  is  an  excellent  car- 
toonist, also  self-taught.  But  his  real  am- 
bition was  to  be  a  doctor,  and  he  had  al- 
ready started  a  pre-med  course  when 
destiny  stepped  in  to  turn  him  toward 
show  business.  It  happened  when  he  was 
in  college  and  accompanied  a  stage-struck 
friend  to  Station  WWRL,  in  Woodside, 
Long  Island,  where  the  friend  wanted  to 
audition  for  an  announcing  job. 

"Someone  thrust  an  application  blank 
and  an  audition  script  in  my  hand,  too," 
Sandy  says.  "There  I  was,  expected  to  do 
something  about  both.  So  I  filled  out  the 
blank,  and  did  a  pretty  atrocious  reading 
of  the  script.  It  had  to  be  atrocious — be- 
cause what  did  I  know  about  it?  I  quickly 
made  up  my  mind  to  combine  the  voices 
and  interpretations  of  three  different  news 
broadcasters  I  admired — Edwin  C.  Hill, 
Lowell  Thomas  and  Gabriel  Heatter!  It 
was  some  combination,  but  I  got  the  job, 
at  $10  a  week,  with  the  understanding 
that  I  would  continue  my  schooling.  So  I 
really  fumbled  my  way  into  radio,  but  I 


AJe\//f^o£f^/fa/  Ptoof 


Gentle 

EX- LAX  HELPS 

you  toward 

YOUR  NORMAL 
REGULARITY! 


AT  NIGHT,  take  pleas-   NEXT  MORNING,  you 

ant-tasting  Ex-Lax  for  enjoy  the  closest  thing 
constipation.  Its  gentle  to  natural  action.  No  up- 
effective  action  wont  set.  No  discomfort.  No 
disturb  sleep.  embarrassing  urgency. 

THE  FOLLOWING  DAY,  Ex-LAX  continues  to 
help  you  toward  your  normal   regularity!    You 

seldom,  if  ever,  have  to  repeat  Ex-Lax  the  next 
night!  New  scientific  tests  in  one  of  the  world's 
largest  hospitals  again  prove  it. 


EX-LAX 

THE  CHOCOLATED  LAXATIVE 
Buy  New  Economy  Sixe! 


GOT  A  COLD  and 
need  a  laxative? 

Unlike  "hurry- 
up"  laxatives,  gen- 
tle Ex-Lax  "gets 
along"  with  cold 
remedies  you  take. 


MORE  PEOPLE  USE  EXIAX  THAN  ANY  OTHER  LAXATIVE 


LOOSE    FALSE    TEETH 

RELINED   AND  TIGHTENED   AT   HOME    $1.00 

NEWLY  IMPROVED  DENDEX  RELINER,  a  plastic, 
builds  up  (refitsi  loose  upper  and  lower  dentures. 
,  Really  makes  them  fit  as  tliey  should  without  using 
powder.  Easily  applied.  No  heating  required.  Brush 
it  on  and  wear  your  plates  while  it  sets.  It  adheres 
to  the  plates  only  and  makes  a  comfortable,  smooth 
and  durable  surface  that  can  be  washed  and  scrub- 
bed.  Each  application   lasts  for  months.   Not  a 
powder  or  wax.  Contains  no  rubber  or  gum.  Neutral 
pink  color   Sold  on  MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE.  Not  sold  in  stores.  Proved 
by  15  years  of  Consumer  Use.  Send  $1.00  plus  10(  handling  charge 
(stamps  or  coin).        DENDEX   COMPANY,  DEPT.  77-A 
2014   WEST   SIXTH   ST.,  LOS   ANGELES   5,  CALIF. 


ONLf 


BOTTOMS- 


SET  50c 


Solt   & 
Pepper 

Perl  and  saucy,  and  just  cute  enough  to  shock  your 
maiden  aunt.  Shapely  figure  leans  over  the  barrel  with 
her  head  resting  on  top.  Use  her  adorable,  bewitching 
form  as  a  handle,  while  one  barrel  pours  salt,  the 
other  pours  pepper.  Richly  hand-painted  ceramic.  Each 
barrel    holds   a    liberal    supply    of  salt  and    pepper. 

SATISFACTION    GUARANTEED    OR    MONEY    BACK 
You'll    enjoy    using    these    clever    conversation    pieces. 
Not   more   than    2    Sets   to   a   customer   at   this   bargain 
price.    Add   only    15c   to   each    Set   ordered   for  postage 
and  handling.   No  C.O.D.'s   please. 
Oobbs    Products    Co.,  800  W.  lafce  SI.,  Depl.  743,  Chicago  7,  III. 


n^ 


ENLARGEMENT 

'  o/youf>  ^avofffe  Photo 


FROM  FAMOUS  HOUYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS 

Just  to  get  acquainted,  we  will 
make  you  a  beautiful  studio  qual- 
ity 5  x  7  enlargement  of  any  snap- 
j^  shot,  photo  or  negative.  Be  sure 
'  to  include  color  of  hair,  eyes  and 
clothing,  and  get  our  Bargain 
Offer  for  having  your  enlarge- 
ment beautifully  hand-colored  in 
oil  and  mounted  in  a  handsome  frame.  Limit  2 
to  a  customer.  Please  enclose  10^  to  cover  cost  of 
handling  and  mailing  each  enlargement.  Original 
returned.  We  will  pay  f  100.00  for  children's  or 
adults  pictures  used  in  our  advertising.  Act  NOW! 

HOLLYWOOD  FILM  STUDIOS,  Dept.  F-157 
7021   Santa  Monica  Blvd.,  Hollywood  38,  Calif. 


89 


YOUR 
COOK  BOOK 

The  Mosf  Unusual 

Cook  Book  Published! 

Here — at  last — is  your  dream  cook  book  .  .  . 
the  cook  book  that  has  everything  .  .  .  the 
cook  book  that  tops  them  all!! 

There's  a  story  behind  this  cook  book — and 
a  fascinating  story  it  is,  too.  The  recipes  in 
this  cook  book  are  all  proven  recipes.  So, 
what  is  so  unusual  about  that  you  ask?  Well, 
most  cook  book  recipes  are  tested  by  col- 
lege-trained dietitians  in  scientific  kitchens. 
These  recipes  were,  too,  but  they  first  were 
tested  in  the  dining  rooms  of  actual  homes 
throughout  the  country.  These  recipes  are 
the  time-tested  favorites  of  True  Story  read- 
ers from  coast  to  coast.  These  are  their 
favorite  recipes — the  recipes  handed  down 
from  mother  to  daughter — from  revolution- 
ary days  right  up  to  the  present  day. 

The  Magic  Cook  Book  is  your  cook  hook.  It 
contains  the  very  best — the  most  unusual — 
and  the  most  highly  prized  recipes  ever  put 
into  book  form. 

Here  you'll  discovered  Mrs.  Bailey's  Soda 
Biscuits  that  are  the  fluffiest  and  flakiest 
biscuits  you  ever  tasted  and  they  just  melt 
in  your  mouth.  And  for  the  dreamiest  main 
dish,  you  have  just  got  to  try  Mrs.  Lazaroff's 
"Veal  Parmigiana — your  men  folk  will  just 
rave  over  it.  Then,  there  is  Mrs.  Hooker's 
Macaroni  Loaf  with  Cheese  Sauce — this  suc- 
culent dish  just  oozes  with  zest — the  only 
trouble  with  it  is  that  you  will  never  make 
enough  to  satisfy  your  family  or  your 
guests!!  For  a  dessert  that  will  make  them 
stand  up  and  cheer — try  Mrs.  Lockhart's 
special  recipe  for  Pecan  Pie.  It's  the  m.ost 
heavenly  dish  to  top  off  a  mcai  —and  you 
will  be  rated  the  Queen  of  Hearts  for  serv- 
ing it — time  after  time  after  time. 

Space  here  is  too  limited  to  tell  you  of  the 
hundreds  of  special  prize  recioes  this  un- 
usual cook  book  contains.  Each  dish  seems 
more  exciting  than  the  next.  With  this  book 
at  hand  meal  planning  is  an  exciting  adven- 
ture— not  a  chore.  Your  neighbors  and 
friends  will  want  copies  of  all  the  yummy 
dishes  you  serve.  Your  cooking  will  be  the 
talk  of  the  town!! 

Here,  too,  are  lunchbox  hints  for  children 


and  workers  .  .  .  new 
ways  to  use  package 
mixes  .  .  .  canning  in- 
structions .  .  .  rules 
for  table  setting  and 
service  .  .  .  and  num- 
erous tables  and 
charts  that  you  will 
find  of  tremendous 
value. 

The  price  of  this 
giant  book,  which  is 
beautifully  bound  in 
washable  fabrikoid, 
is  only  $1.98 — and  we 
pay  the  postage.  Or- 
der your  copy  of  this 
unusual  cook  book 
while  supply  lasts. 

r--'MAIL  THIS  COUPON  TODAY---n 
I 

I  Readers'   Service  Bureau 

[  TRUE   STORY.    Dept.   WG-1255 

I  205  E.  42nd  St.,   New  York  17,    N.  Y. 

I  Send  me  postpaid,  a  copy  of  the  MAGIC 
I  COOK  BOOK.  I  enclose  $1.98. 


'  Name 

I  rk';i>.i'  I'liiu 

T  • 

V  I  Address 

R         ■ 

I 

I  City State. 


!J0 


liked  it  from  the  first.  For  a  week  or 
more,  my  parents  knew  nothing  about 
this,  until  one  day  I  asked  them  to  listen. 
I  wanted  to  be  sure  I  was  going  to  last 
in  the  job." 

When  Sandy  thought  it  was  time  to 
break  away  from  a  local  station  and  get 
on  a  network,  he  took  another  audition, 
this  time  for  a  CBS  executive.  "I  was  still 
a  little  'rough  around  the  edges,'  so  they 
sent  me  instead  to  Station  WET,  in  Char- 
lotte, North  Carolina.  There  I  was  re- 
quired to  do  practically  everything,  in- 
cluding announcing — the  kind  of  local- 
station  experience  which  is  invaluable  for 
learning  the  business  and  preparing  for 
a  network  job." 

He  stayed  in  Charlotte  two  years,  and 
that's  where  Ruth  became  part  of  the 
Sandy  Becker  story.  She  didn't  even  see 
him,  the  first  day  he  saw  her.  Her  mind 
was  concerned  with  the  ambitions  of  a 
friend,  a  girl  who  was  attending  business 
school  with  her  but  had  radio  aspirations. 
Ruth  herself  had  done  some  singing  with 
local  bands  and  in  her  church,  but  she 
went  along  with  her  friend  merely  for 
moral  support.  Sandy  saw  them  from  the 
control  room,  and  the  girls  were  gone  by 
the  time  he  came  out.  But  already  he  had 
turned  to  a  co-worker  and  announced  that 
this  was  the  girl  he  wanted  to  marry,  this 
striking  brunette  who  walked  like  a  prin- 
cess. It  took  several  telephone  calls  to 
Ruth's  girl  friend  to  get  a  date  arranged. 
And,  even  after  Ruth  met  Sandy,  she 
wasn't  impressed,  deciding  he  was  too 
young  and  boyish  for  a  woman  of  nine- 
teen. He  was  just  twenty  himself,  but 
thin  and — well,  boyish-looking,  just  as 
Ruth  told  herself.  In  fact,  Sandy  was  al- 
ways trying  to  put  on  weight,  and  always 
trying  to  look  more  mature. 

(^lyde  Clem  didn't  really  believe  Sandy 
when  he  said  that  Ruth  was  going  to 
marry  him:  "I  was  always  deflating  him, 
anyhow,  just  for  the  fun  of  it.  Of  course,  I 
knew  he  had  what  it  takes  for  success  all 
along  the  line,  but  I  liked  to  kid  him.  Just 
to  balance  things.  And  when  he  told  me 
Ruth  had  said  yes,  I  really  did  rib  him. 
We  used  to  double-date,  and  I  knew  how 
he  had  felt  about  her  from  the  first." 

When  the  young-married  Beckers  went 
on  to  New  York,  the  going  wasn't  com- 
pletely smooth  at  first.  Other  fellows  from 
small  stations  got  opportunities  for  which 
Sandy  didn't  even  have  a  chance  to  audi- 
tion and,  for  a  while,  it  seemed  to  him 
that  everybody  was  moving  along  faster 
than  he  was.  Ruth  used  to  remind  him 
that  he  wasn't  doing  too  badly  and  that  his 
turn  was  bound  to  come. 

It  did  come.  He  began  to  get  some  good 
announcing  jobs  on  the  network.  He  did 
Joyce  Jordan,  the  daytime  drama,  and 
Theater  Of  Romance.  He  did  newscasting, 
got  a  break  when  some  big  news  stories 
came  his  way  and  he  handled  them  with 
just  the  right  touch  of  excitement  and 
drama.  He  announced  some  of  the  Phil- 
harmonic concerts,  which  fostered  the  love 
he  already  had  for  fine  music.  And,  in 
1948,  he  was  asked  to  announce  the  Young 
Dr.  Malone  program — and,  not  long  after, 
to  play   the  title  role! 

Gary  Merrill  had  been  doing  Dr.  Malone 
and,  when  Gary  left  for  Hollywood,  some- 
one decided  that  Sandy  had  a  voice  similar 
to  Merrill's.  "I  could  tell  a  story  well,  and 
I  had  been  announcing  for  a  long  time," 
Sandy  recalls,  "but  my  acting  experience 
was  confined  to  those  early  puppetry 
shows  and  to  school  dramatics.  I  guess  I 
was  just  lucky.  Instinctively,  I  seemed  to 
know  what  to  do,  and  to  understand  about 
such  things  as  timing  and  pacing.  And  my 
voice  was  right  for  it.  Besides,  there  has 
always  been  a  continuity  about  my  life — 
maybe    you    could    call    it    'a    thread    of 


destiny'  that  has  run  through  my  life. 
Everything  I  have  done  has  led  me 
along  to  the  next  thing.  Going  to  North 
Carolina,  which  would  have  seemed  an 
unlikely  place  for  me,  brought  Ruth  into 
my  life.  My  interest  in  sculpture  and  car- 
tooning has  already  helped  greatly  in  my 
shows  for  children.  My  own  youngsters 
have  helped  me  to  know  what  other  chil- 
dren like,  and  working  on  children's  pro- 
grams has  helped  me  to  understand  my 
own  youngsters  better.  Everything  has 
fitted  in,  piece  by  piece." 

Sandy  now  has  some  definite  ideas 
about  what  children,  and  their  parents, 
like  on  television.  "Kids  like  to  be 
amused,"  he  says  frankly,  "but  they  like 
to  be  learning  things  at  the  same  time." 
He  gets  in  little  scientific  lectures  and 
demonstrations,  all  keyed  to  young  chil- 
dren. He  sneaks  in  simple  safety  mes- 
sages, and  similar  bits  of  advice.  And,  al- 
ways, these  are  in  the  form  of  entertain- 
ment, and  not  a  bit  like  preaching,  or 
even  like  school. 

The  young  Beckers  are  unhappy  if  they 
have  to  miss  one  of  their  daddy's  pro- 
grams, and  they  assure  him  he  is  tops. 
They  can  be  tearing  the  place  apart,  but 
when  he  comes  on  they  grow  silent  and 
attentive.  When  Dr.  Malone,  to  which 
they  listen  occasionally,  was  going  to  get 
married  to  Tracey,  they  were  quite  upset, 
insisting  that  Ruth  was  "Daddy's  mommy" 
and  wondering  how  Tracey  could  be,  too. 
"I  finally  explained  to  their  satisfaction 
that  I  am  Mrs.  Becker  and  their  daddy  is 
Mr.  Becker,"  Ruth  observes,  "and  that  any 
other  Mr.-and-Mrs.  arrangement  was  only 
part  of  the  story  on  radio,  which  con- 
cerned the  Malones  themselves  and  not  us. 
As  the  Beckers,  we  would  still  be  intact — 
Mommy  and  Daddy  and  Joyce,  Curtis  and 
Annelle." 

Actually,  this  combination  of  being  the 
young  doctor,  and  of  creating  new  ideas 
to  entertain  and  teach  youngsters  on  a 
television  screen,  is  immensely  stimulating 
to  a  man  like  Sandy  who  loves  acting,  is 
tremendously  interested  in  and  tremen- 
dously fond  of  kids,  and  himself  has  a 
thirst  for  knowledge  which  is  never  quite 
satisfied.  He  says  he  works  harder  than 
he  might  because  there  is  so  much  hap- 
pening all  the  time  that  he  loves  to  do. 
So  many  new  shows  constantly  coming 
up.  So  many  new  opportunities  to  use 
what  he  already  knows  and  to  learn  more. 

As  Ruth  sums  it  up:  "I  think  the  most 
important  thing  about  Sandy  is  that  he 
gives  his  best  to  everything  in  which  he 
is  sincerely  and  honestly  interested — to  his 
family,  to  his  work,  to  everything  of  which 
he  is  a  part.  There  just  isn't  anything  too 
much  to  ask  of  him — because  he  gives  so 
much  more  than  anyone  could  possibly 
demand.  It's  because  he  really  cares  about 
people,  and  about  what  happens  to  them." 


It's  Arthur  Godfrey  Time!   i 

Time  for  a  new  story  on  the  nation's 
best-known  redhead  .  .  .  time  for  new 
pictures,  including  a  cover  portrait  in 
full  color  ...  in  the 

January 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 
on  sale  December  6 


Welcome  to  Our  Family 


(Continued  from  page  57) 
Beth  and  she  to  us.    Before  that,  we'd  al- 
ways had  to  put  show  business  first." 

Putting  show  business  first  was  a  habit 
each  had  developed  in  childhood — Pat  in 
the   amateur   theater,   Hal   in  the   profes- 
'    sional. 

Somewhat  to  his  parents'  surprise,  Hal 
made  his  theater  debut  at  the  age  of  six. 
"I  was  seeing  the  usual  Saturday-after- 
noon Westerns,"  he  explains,  "when  the 
manager  of  the  theater  announced  that 
Wednesday  would  be  amateur  night.  Any 
I    child  who  brought  his  sheet  music  could 

get  up  on  the  stage  and  sing." 
I  Singing  was  exactly  Master  Cooper's 
dish.  He  could  remember  the  words  and 
tune  of  every  song  he  had  ever  heard. 
He  saved  his  allowance  to  buy  sheet 
music  and  cajoled  his  parents  into  tak- 
ing him  to  the  theater.  Making  a  small 
boy's  usual  excuse,  he  slipped  away.  The 
next  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cooper  saw  of  their 
son,  he  was  on  stage,  singing.  A  few 
minutes  later,  he  collected  the  twenty- 
five-dollar  first  prize  and  started  his  pro- 
fessional career. 

"The  folks  didn't  know  anything  about 
show  business — Dad  was  a  coffee  broker," 
Hal  says,  "but  they  were  real  smart  about 
it.  They  treated  it  as  my  hobby — an 
extra-curricular    activity." 

It  proved  a  successful  one.  At  the  age 
of  ten,  Hal  was  junior  master  of  cere- 
monies on  Mutual's  Rainbow;  House.  He 
was  also  on  Junior  G-Man  and  occasion- 
ally acted  in  daytime  serials.  At  eighteen, 
he  drew  out  the  money  his  parents  had 
held  in  trust  for  him  and  went  to  the  Uni- 
versity of  Michigan.  He  found  a  room 
down  the  street  from  the  rambling  house 
owned  by  the  Meikles. 

Music  and  drama  had  also  kept  the 
Meikle  household  lively.  Pat's  father, 
Daniel,  a  Scottish-born  designer  of  auto- 
matic machinery,  played  the  cello.  Her 
mother,  tiny,  vivacious  red-headed  Maude, 
belonged  to  the  community  theater.  Pat, 
upon  finishing  high  school,  had  spent  a 
season  at  the  Ogiinquit,  Maine,  summer 
theater  and  had  airily  informed  her  par- 
ents, "Maybe  I  won't  come  home  in  the 
fall.  Maybe  I'll  go  right  on  to  Broadway." 
With  a  Scotsman's  firmness,  her  father 
had  insisted  that  the  University  of  Michi- 
gan should  come  first. 

X  at  and  Hal  met  during  their  sophomore 
years.  "Our  drama  class,"  says  Pat,  "was 
doing  a  scene  from  'The  Vortex.'  Hal 
came  in  as  critic."  His  comment  irked 
Pat.  "I  let  him  know  we  were  not  about 
to  be  betrayed  by  New  York  commercial- 
ism." 

"And  I  told  her,"  says  Hal,  "that,  in 
radio,  if  it  were  not  for  the  commercial- 
ism of  Our  Gal  Sunday,  she  would  not  be 
able  to  enjoy  the  art  of  Toscanini." 

Argument  became  more  intriguing  than 
romance.  "He'd  take  another  girl  home," 
says  Pat,  "then  stop  at  our  house  for  a 
cup  of  coffee." 

"Pat  dated  my  roommate,"  Hal  adds.  "I 
was  always  having  to  patch  up  their  spats." 

When  war  came,  they  found  absence  did 
make  their  hearts  grow  fonder.  Hal,  com- 
missioned a  Navy  ensign,  shipped  out  and 
wrote  Pat  an  eighteen-page  letter  which 
ended,  "I  think  I'm  in  love  with  you. 
Will  you  marry  me?" 

Pat's  reply  also  ran  eighteen  pages.  The 
first  seventeen  were  an  essay  on  platonic 
friendship.  The  final  page  ended:  "But  I 
think  I  am  in  love  with  you,  too.  The 
answer  is  yes." 

Hal  was  in  Panama  when  he  received 
her  letter.  Reading  the  first  few  pages, 
he  concluded  Pat  had  rejected  him.  "So," 


says  Hal,  "I  decided  to  go  out  and  get 
tight." 

At  two  o'clock  in  the  morning,  back  on 
the  ship,  he  felt  sufficiently  fortified  to 
finish  reading  the  letter.  When  he  reached 
the  last  page  and  saw  Pat's  "I  think  I'm 
in  love  with  you,  too,"  the  cramped  quar- 
ters of  the  ship  could  not  hold  Hal's 
exuberance. 

"So  I  climbed  to  the  crow's  nest,"  he 
says,  "and  I  sang  every  song  I  knew,  at 
the  top  of  my  voice,  until  the  fellow  on 
watch  shouted  up,  'You'd  better  come 
down,  Mr.  Cooper,  or  we'll  both  get  into 
trouble.'  " 

They  would  wait  until  the  end  of  the 
war  to  marry,  they  decided.  Pat  came 
to  New  York  and  lived  at  the  Rehearsal 
Club.  She  found  a  few  parts  in  off-Broad- 
way shows.  Then,  thanks  to  a  ruptured 
appendix,  Hal  got  a  convalescent  leave. 
Mrs.  Meikle,  visiting  in  New  York,  sug- 
gested they  marry  immediately.  A  phone 
call  summoned  Pat's  father,  and  Hal's 
parents  gave  them  a  reception. 

"That  wasn't  what  we  had  intended," 
Hal  says,  "but  we've  been  forever  glad 
we  did  it."  For,  soon  afterward,  they 
learned  the  reason  for  Mrs.  Meikle's  urg- 
ing. ''Less  than  a  month  afterward,"  says 
Hal,  "she  died.  We  then  discovered  she 
had  long  known  she  had  a  serious  heart 
condition.  She  must  have  realized  her 
time  was  running  out." 

When  Hal  received  his  discharge  in 
February  of  1946,  they  returned  to  the 
university.  After  he  received  his  degree, 
they  went  to  the  Dock  Street  Theater  in 
Charleston,  South  Carolina,  as  assistant 
directors.  With  a  seven-day-a-week  re- 
sponsibility for  teaching,  designing  sets, 
staging  plays  and  acting  in  them,  they 
learned  to  put  their  personal  life  second. 

In  1948,  Pat  and  Hal  set  for  themselves 
a  new  course  of  study  in  a  field  where 
few  text  books  then  existed.  Returning 
to  New  York,  they  spent  the  entire  sum- 
mer watching  television,  planned  some 
shows  and  started  making  the  rounds. 

"It  was  pretty  discouraging  at  first," 
says  Hal.  "Everything  was  in  a  tumult 
and  no  one  had  money  to  spend.  Our 
first  break  came  when  Bob  Emery,  whom 
I  had  worked  for  in  radio,  phoned  to  say 
that  Du  Mont  was  about  to  start  daytime 
programming.  He  asked  if  Pat  and  I 
could  do  a  low-budget  show  to  keep  pre- 
school children  amused  for  half  an  hour." 

TV  Bahy  Sitter  resulted.  Soon,  for  an 
older  group,  Hal  and  Pat  originated  Magic 
Cottage,  a  wonderfully  charming  fantasy 
which  children  loved,  mothers  approved 
and  critics  praised.  Often,  they  received 
3,000  letters  a  week.  "We  had  everything 
but  money,"  says  Hal.  "No  one,  in  those 
days,  wanted  to  buy  a  kids'  show." 

Their  total  income  from  the  two  shows, 
which  they  wrote,  produced  and  per- 
formed, wouldn't  pay  for  a  ten-second 
spot  announcement  today.  Together,  they 
received  $150  a  week.  "And  out  of  it," 
says  Pat,  "we  had  to  pay  the  cost  of  props 
and  of  handling  our  mail." 

But  despite  its  rigors,  television  was 
fun  in  those  <lays.  "The  gang  gathered  at 
our  funny  little  apartment  on  Third 
Avenue,"  Hal  recalls.  "The  floor  tilted  so 
much  that  if  you  dropped  a  marble  at  one 
side  of  the  room  it  v^^ould  bang  the  oppo- 
site baseboard.  Every  three  minutes,  the 
Third  Avenue  El  roared  by  and  conver- 
sation   automatically   stopped." 

They  also  appeared  in  dramatic  shows. 
Hal  played  them  all,  but  Pat's  career  was 
limited.  "I  was  cast  as  a  menace,"  she 
explains,  "and  the  next  morning  every- 
body at  Du  Mont  was  calling  everybody 


USED 


MAIL  ORDER  MART 
\^V«tSS  SAIC 

20  lor  S 

DRESSES 

ASSORTED  in  Sllli,  Wool,  Celten  ft  Rayon 

ALL  SIZES  in  Good  Condiflen 

BUT  NO  LESS  THAN  20  DiiESSES 

AT  THiS  BARGAiN  PRICE 

MONEY  BACK  IF  NOT  SATISFIED 

SI. 00  Deposit  MUST  ceiiM  wiffc  erd»r.  Yo«  pay 

posfmoa  balcme*  pint  C.O.D.,  p«iHi9«  ckar«««. 

A  TRIAL  ORDER  WIU  CONVINCE  VOU  OP 

OUR  WONDERFUL  BARGAINS 


MAIL  ORDER  MART  "•kun'sTn"'.'    °""  EB 


i 

•    Addr*M      •••••.••••••••••••••• •••••*■•*! 

1    city.  •••• •-...•. •    8Ut«.  , ■ 

;  Eaclet«4  Bad  $1.00  Dcpoilt.  1  will  pav  pMK ! 
!  mh  C.O.D.  balaae*  PLUS  peitoq*.  b6            \ 

1           ITEM 

$IZE                   MklCE         1 

High  School  Course 

at  Home 


ly  Finish  in  2  Years 

Go  as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  penult.  Eqiiivjilciit  to  resi- 
dent Bchool  work — prepares  for  collese  entrance  exams.  I^tandanl 
H.  S.  texts  supplied.  Diploma  awarded.  Credit  for  H.  S.  subjeets 
completed.     .Single  aubjects  if  desired.     Ask  for  Free  Bulletin, 

American  School,  Dept.  H953.  Drexel  at  58th.  Chicago  37 


300  Y%  Childs  Photo 


BIG  DEMAND  for  boys  and  girls  pho- 
tos, ages  6  months  to  18  years.  $300  or 
more  PAID  if  used  for  advertising  pur- 
poses. Send  ONE  small  photo  for  ap- 
proval. Print  CHILD'S  and  MOTHER'S 
name  and  address  on  back.  Returned 
15  days.    NO  OBLIGATION. 

ADVERTISERS   PHOTOS 
6000-HL  Sunset,   Hollywood  28,   Calif. 


THiS  AD  IS 
WORTH  MONEY! 

Let  us  show  you  how  to  moke  big  money 
in  your  spore  time  by  helping  us 
take  orders  for  magazine  subscriptions. 
Write  today  for  FREE  money-making 
information.    There    is    no    obligation. 

MACFADDEN   PUBLICATIONS 

205  E.  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17.  N.  Y. 

Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 
New  Way  Without  Surgery 

Science  Finds  Healing  Substance  That 
Relieves  Pain — Shrinks  Hemorrhoids 

For  the  first  time  science  has  found  a 
new  healing  substance  with  the  astonishing 
ability  to  shrink  hemorrhoids  and  to  relieve 
pain  —  without  surgery. 

In  case  after  case,  while  gently  relieving 
pain,  actual  reduction  (shrinkage)  took 
place. 

Most  amazing  of  all  —  results  were  so 
thorough  that  sufferers  made  astonishing 
statements  like  "Piles  have  ceased  to  be  a 
problem!" 

The  secret  is  a  new  healing  substance 
(Bio-Dyne*)  — discovery  of  a  world-famous 
research  institute. 

This  substance  is  now  available  in  sup- 
pository or  ointment  form  under  the  name 
Preparation  H.*  Ask  for  it  at  all  drug  count- 
ers—money back  guarantee.     *Keg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off. 


91 


NOW— THE  ANSWERS  TO 
YOUR  QUESTIONS  ON 

Good 
Manners 


Elsa  Maxwell,  the  famous  hostess  to 
world  celebrities,  is  being  showered  with 
praise  by  Hollywood  stars  for  her  splen- 
did etiquette  book.  In  Hollywood  they  are 
calling  it  the  most  useful  and  entertain- 
ing book  on  the  subject  ever  written. 

A   Gay,    Entertaining    Boole 

Elsa  Maxwell's  new  book  is  diflEerent  from 
the  usual  dry-as-dust  etiquette  volume. 
It's  gay!  It's  up-to-date!  It's  just  chock- 
full  of  the  type  of  information  you  can 
put  to  immediate  use.  It  brings  you  a 
thorough  social  education,  that  will  en- 
able you  to  Uve  a  richer,  happier  life 

Here  in  clear,  straightforward  language, 
are  the  answers  to  all  your  everyday  eti- 
quette problems.  Here  you  find  important 
suggestions  on  good  manners  in  restau- 
rants— in  church — in  the  theatre — on  the 
street — and  when  you  travel. 

A  Social  Education 

In  this  book  Elsa  Maxwell  covers  every 
phase  of  engagements  and  weddings. 
Here  is  everything  you  need  to  know 
about  invitations,  gifts,  the  wedding 
dress,  the  attendants,  the  reception,  etc. 
The  bride  who  follows  the  suggestions 
contained  in  this  up-to-date  book  need 
have  no  wedding  fears.  She  will  be  radi- 
ant in  the  knowledge  that  her  wedding 
is  correct  in  every  detail. 


Only   $1.00 

The  price  of  this 
book  that  puts  you 
at  ease  no  matter 
where  you  are — 
and  opens  the  door 
to  achievement 
and  success — costs 
only  $1.00  and  we 
pay  the  postage! 
Take  advantage  of 
this  truly  remark- 
able bargain.  Mail 
coupon  below  for 
your  book — TO- 
DAY. 


;  BARTHOLOMEW  HOUSE.  INC..  Dept.WG-1255! 
•205   E.   42nd  St..    New   York    17,    N.   Y.  J 

[Send  me  postpaid  a  copy  ot  ELSA  MAX-  J 

.  WELLS    ETIQUETTE    BOOK.    1    enclose  • 

$1  00  • 


•  NAME 

•  PIcuo    Print 

I         'STREET , 

R  * 

•  CITY STATE. 

92 


else  to  say,  'You  can't  make  a  villainess 
of  our  child  star.' " 

In  1952,  they  varied  their  schedule.  Hal 
went  to  England  to  produce  a  stage  play. 
Pat  intended  to  stay  home  but,  separated, 
both  felt  lost.  "Hal  telephoned  and  I  took 
off.  I  think  we  flew  the  ocean  six  times 
that  summer." 

Television  was  settling  down  and  so 
were  the  Coopers.  They  moved  to  Madi- 
son Avenue,  Louise  Thompson  came  to 
take  over  the  housework,  and  when  Beth- 
ami  was  born  August  16,  1954,  Edna 
Crichton  joined  the  household  staff. 

"They're  both  friends  as  well  as  helpers," 
says  Pat.  "Our  Thanksgiving  certainly 
proved  that." 

It's  true  importance  only  began  when 
the  last  drumstick  was  finished.  "Once 
we  started  thinking  of  ourselves  as  a 
family,"  says  Hal,  "we  started  looking 
ahead.  We  wanted  Beth — and  the  other 
children  we  hope  to  have — to  enjoy  all 
the  things  Pat  and  I  knew  as  kids." 

Primarily,  that  meant  grass,  trees  and 
room  to  run.  It  meant  the  security  of 
owning  a  home  and  the  happiness  of  close 
friends  in  the  neighborhood.  House-hunt- 
ing, they  toured  the  suburbs.  "With  our 
eyes  on  our  watches,"  says  Pat.  "Every 
minute  of  travel  time  meant  just  so  much 
time  taken  away  from  Beth." 

It  was  Fran  Carlon,  who  then  had  the 
lead  in  TV's  Portia  Faces  Life,  who  sug- 
gested a  solution.  Meeting  Hal  one  day, 
she  said,  "I've  heard  of  a  house  for  sale 
down  in  the  Village.  .  .  ." 

To  a  Midwesterner  who  still  thinks  of 
Greenwich  Village  as  a  section  composed 
exclusively  of  attics,  the  house  the  Coopers 
bought  would  be  a  distinct  surprise. 

Located  on  a  quiet,  tree-lined  street,  it 


turns  a  narrow,  tidy,  four-stol-y  face  to- 
ward the  pavement,  but  the  heart  of  the 
block  is  a  different  world.  There,  totally 
enclosed  by  the  buildings,  is  a  lovely  little 
private  park  with  lawns,  trees  and  even 
a  sturdy  little  tree-house  for  children. 

The  house  itself  is  about  a  hundred 
years  old,  Pat  explains,  but  three  genera- 
tions of  children  have  grown  up  in  the 
little  park.  "In  1923,  owners  around  the 
block  got  together  and  decided  to  tear 
down  their  back  fences.  Now  we  hold 
an  annual  meeting  to  decide  on  improve- 
ments and  make  an  assessment  for  up- 
keep. Since  property  here  seldom  changes 
hands,  some  of  those  children  who  first 
played  in  the  park  are  now  grandparents. 
Right  in  the  middle  of  New  York,  this  is 
like  living  in  a  small  town.    We  love  it." 

The  Coopers,  who  not  long  ago  were 
adept  at  living  out  of  a  wardrobe  trunk, 
have  put  down  roots.  At  present,  they 
have  the  first  two  floors  of  the  house  and 
rent  the  two  upper  apartments.  "But," 
says  Hal,  "as  our  famiily  grows,  we'll  take 
over  that  space  for  ourselves." 

Pat's  thoughts  reach  even  further  into 
the  years  ahead.  "When  Beth  wants  an 
apartment  of  her  own,  we  can  cut  off  a 
floor  and  it  will  be  ready  for  her." 

"And  finally,"  says  Hal,  "when  the  chil- 
dren marry  and  move  away,  Pat  and  I 
will  be  right  back  down  where  we  are 
now,  with  a  comfortable  income  property 
during  our  retirement." 

It's  a  plan  for  a  lifetime,  a  plan  for 
good  living,  and — Pat  and-  Hal  remind 
you — a  plan  which  started  just  last 
Thanksgiving,  when  they  discovered  they 
weren't  just  television  performers,  they 
were  that  most  important  thing  in  the 
world — a  family. 


To  Cynthia  with  Love 


m 


(Continued  from,  page  51) 
character  in  a  book  I've  read.  To  us,  the 
name  Cynthia  is  associated  only  with  you. 
It  is  all  yours,  as  a  name  should  really  be. 

At  this  point  in  our  lives,  so  soon  after 
your  birth,  I  talk  about  you  all  day  long. 
"When,"  your  daddy  asked  me  the  other 
night,  "do  we  stop  talking  about  how  many 
ounces  a  feeding  and  how  many  burps  a 
day?"  Then  he  wanted  to  know  "How 
many?"  If  this  makes  us  sound  too  doting, 
just  remember  that  we  waited  for  you  a 
long  time.  And  when  you  did  arrive,  you 
came  in  such  a  rush!  You  were  not  ex- 
pected until  the  first  week  in  August,  at 
the  earliest,  but  you  were  born  in  Doctor's 
Hospital  at  9:33  A.M.,  July  30,  1955. 

The  first  thing  I  remember  clearly,  after 
that,  was  your  daddy  standing  by  my  bed 
and  saying,  "She's  beautiful.  She's  the 
most  beautiful  baby  I  have  ever  seen. 
Wait  xintil  you  see  her — ^she's  really 
pretty!" 

I  laughed  to  myself,  remembering  how 
carefully  Richard  had  briefed  me  on  what 
I  might  expect  of  him  as  a  new  father.  He 
didn't  want  me  to  be  disappointed,  so  he 
thought  he  should  warn  me  that  he  might 
not  feel  up  to  behaving  like  a  proud  papa. 
Not  at  first,  anyway — not  until  you  were 
*a  little  older  and  began  to  project  your 
personality. 

Well,  you  "projected"  to  your  daddy 
from  the  moment  he  set  eyes  on  you! 
Every  day,  while  I  was  in  the  hospital, 
he'd  get  me  a  chair  so  I  could  sit  and  look 
at  you,  through  glass,  in  the  nursery.  And, 
for  the  whole  forty-five  minutes  that  par- 
ents were  permitted  to  see  their  babies 
each  day,  we'd  sit  there,  both  of  us,  and 
stare.  And  now  we  hope  we  have  another 
just  like  you,  another  girl  first,  then  two 
boys! 


From  your  eyes  up,  you're  like  your 
father.  Your  hair  is  dark.  I  hope  it  stays 
that  way,  I  hope  you  have  curly  dark 
hair  like  Richard's.  From  your  eyes  down, 
you're  like  me.  You  look  most  of  all,  I 
think,  like  my  mother — your  Grandmother 
Houchins.  I  look  like  her,  too,  only  she  is 
much  prettier  than  I  am.  You  "take  after" 
both  sides,  I'd  say — although  you're  so  like 
one  baby  picture  of  me,  taken  in  profile, 
that  I'm  scared. 

Scared,  that  is,  because  I  wasn't  pretty, 
when  I  was  a  teenager.  I  was  all  nose — 
big  nose,  big  mouth — and  gawky.  When 
director-producer  Joe  Pasternak  signed  me 
to  a  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  film  contract, 
he  said,  "You're  about  the  funniest-look- 
ing girl  I've  ever  seen,  and  you  can't  dance 
or  sing  or  act,  and  I  don't  know  what  I'm 
going  to  do  with  you.  But,"  he  added, 
quite  dubiously,  "kind  of  interesting.  .  .!" 

What  Mr.  Pasternak  did  was  to  put  me 
in  "This  Time  for  Keeps,"  which  starred 
Esther  Williams.  (That  was  something  of 
a  paradox,  since  I  not  only  couldn't  sing, 
dance  or  act — I  couldn't  even  swim!)  He 
also  cast  me  in  "Ballerina"  and  in  "No 
Leave,  No  Love."  And,  in  all  three  pic- 
tures,  I  played   "the   other  woman." 

In  due  course  of  time,  I  made  other  pic- 
tures, but  not  for  long.  One  day,  I  just 
upped  and  left.  Hollywood  was  not  for 
me — nor   I  for   Hollywood,   I   suspect. 

I'm  telling  you  all  this  because  it  proves 
that  lack  of  beauty  need  not  be  a  serious 
handicap — even  in  the  "photogenic"  me- 
dium of  motion  pictures.  Still,  it's  nice  for 
a  girl  to  be  pretty,  so  I  hope  you  will  be. 
Pleasant-looking,  let's  say,  but  not  a  rav- 
ing beauty.  Raving  beauties  take  them- 
selves too  seriously.  And  the  way  life 
treats  them,  all  too  often,  is  not  what  I 
dream  of,  for  you. 


I  hope  you'll  feel,  as  your  father  and  I 
do,  that  having  a  child  is  about  as  creative 
as  anyone  can  be.  That,  compared  with 
having  child — which  is  creating  life  itself 
— painting  a  picture,  writing  a  book,  acting, 
or  any  of  the  arts,  is  relatively  meaning- 
less. 

If  you  must  have  a  career,  I  hope  it  will 
be  as  nice  as  the  one  I  have.  A  simple 
career  that  fits  in,  as  mine  does,  with  a 
pleasant  and  normal  life.  I  do  only  one 
show.  Search  For  Tomorrow,  on  CBS-TV. 
I  go  to  work  at  eight-thirty  in  the  morn- 
ing, get  home  in  the  early  afternoon,  and 
stay  home.  I  will  not  take  a  night-time 
show.  I  won't  even  take  a  once-in-a- 
while,  free-lance  night-time  show.  I  did  it 
just  once.  Your  daddy — who  is  associate 
producer  on  NBC-TV's  big  show.  Today — 
also  gets  home  early.  That  one  night,  he 
ate  alone.  We  didn't  like  it  that  way,  and 
I  never  tried  it  again. 

I  hope  that  you  will  never  be  a  slave 
to  ambition.  I  would  hate  to  have  you  a 
"star."  Truth  is,  I  really  hope  you're  not 
an  actress  at  all.  Perhaps  you  won't  want 
to  be.  It's  usually  the  children  of  very 
glamorous  parents — such  as  Marlene  Diet- 
rich's daughter,  Maria  Riva — who  seem 
most  to  want  an  acting  career. 

If  you  do  want  a  career,  and  if  I  have 
any  influence,  you'll  be  a  writer.  Reasons: 
Writers  can  be  by  themselves,  are  sufficient 
unto  themselves,  can  fit  into  any  kind  of 
a  life  anywhere — and,  in  addition,  once 
you've  learned  to  coordinate  your  thoughts 
on  paper,  you  coordinate  better  in  every- 
thing you  do!  I  found  that  out  when  I 
wrote  a  book,  while  I  was  living  in  Holly- 
wood. An  autobiographical  book.  You  will 
never  see  it — because  once  it  was  com- 
pleted, I  tore  it  up.  It  had  served  its  pur- 
pose. For,  from  that  time  on,  I  had  more 
confidence  as  an  actress  than  I  had  ever 
had  before.  I  became  a  more  immaculate 
housekeeper  than  I  had  ever  been  before. 
Since  then,  everything  in  my  life  has  been 
better   organized   than   ever   before. 

Whatever  it  is  you  want  to  do,  I  hope 
that  Richard  and  I  will  be  smart  enough 
to  let  you  go  out  on  your  own — as  my  own 
parents  were,  when  they  let  me  leave  our 
home  in  Tulsa,  Oklahoma,  and  go  off  to 
New  York  at  the  age  of  nineteen. 

But  my  dearest  hope  for  you  is  that  you 
will  marry.  And  that  you'll  marry  some- 
one as  nice  as  your  daddy.  I  couldn't  wish 
anything  better  for  you  than  that.  He  is 
kind  and  understanding  and  wise  and  witty 
and  warm,  and  fun — and  he's  pretty  fond 
of  you! 

After  four  years  of  being  married  to 
him,  I  still  wait  for  the  sound  of  the 
rising  elevator  that  tells  me  Richard  has 
come  home.  After  four  years  of  marriage, 
he's  still  romantic,  still  sends  me  flowers 
and  gives  me  presents — seldom  on  the  days 
you  expect  presents,  but  always  in  com- 
memoration of  something  significant.  On 
Mother's  Day  this  year,  for  instance,  he 
gave  me  a  little  pearl  and  diamond  ring, 
because  this  Mother's  Day  had  such  spe- 
cial significance  for  me.  (My  birthday  he 
skipped  entirely!) 

An  hour  after  you  were  bom,  your 
daddy  said  he  wanted  to  go  home  and 
shave.  An  hour  later,  he  came  racing  back 
with  a  lovely  circlet  of  sapphires,  set  in 
platinimi,  for  me.  He  still  hadn't  shaved, 
of  course.  Then,  two  days  after  you  were 
bom  was  our  fourth  wedding  anniversary. 


and  there  were  two  dozen  long-stemmed 
red  roses  in  my  hospital  room,  among  all 
the  pink  and  blue  "baby"  flowers.  And, 
always,  we  still  get  dressed  up  and  go 
dancing,  as  we  did  when  we  were  dating, 
and  it  is  still  the  way  it  was  in  the  days 
when  we  were  dating.  .  . 

I  hope  it  will  be  this  way,  this  lovely 
way,  for  you.  .  .  . 

I  hope,  too,  you  will  want  to  live  as 
normal  and  family-type  a  life  as  we — for 
your  sake  and  for  the  sakes  of  the  sister 
and  brother  we  hope  you'll  have. 

We  always  wanted  a  large  family.  When 
we  began  to  fear  we  were  not  going  to 
have  any  family  at  all,  we  were  going  to 
adopt  a  child.  "Then  you  came.  And  soon, 
perhaps,  there  will  be  another  like  you. 
Then  it  will  be  time  to  go,  to  move  out  of 
the  city  and  into  the  country.  We  love 
this  apartment,  into  which  we  moved  only 
three  months  before  you  were  born.  But 
we  feel  that  city  life — a  walk  in  the  park 
in  the  morning,  another  walk  in  the  park 
in  the  afternoon — is  too  regimented  a  life 
for  children. 

Our  plan  is  to  live  in  a  smallish  town 
where  the  schools  are  good.  We  want  our 
children  to  go  to  pubiif  schools.  And,  after 
public  school,  a  good  college. 

We  know  the  kind  of  house  we  want  to 
buy.  A  big,  comfortable,  old-fashioned 
kind  of  house  where  you  can  live  as  un- 
disciplined a  life  as  possible — where  you 
can  open  the  back  door,  and  go  outside  to 
play.  A  house  with  plenty  of  room  for 
bikes  and  scooters  and  doll-baby  buggies 
and  baseball  bats  and  skates  and  skis  and 
assorted  puppies  and  kittens  and  white 
mice  and  frogs. 

And  we  want  to  be  sort  of  comfortable, 
old-fashioned  parents.  We  want  to  be 
Scout  Masters  and  Den  Mothers  and  all 
the  rest  of  that  wonderful  job  of  being 
parents. 

1  hope  you'll  like  us,  your  daddy  and 
me,  as  people — not  because  you  should,  but 
because  you  just  do.  At  the  same  time,  I 
hope  you'll  have  some  interests  we  don't 
share  because  they'll  be  all  your  own. 
Each  of  us,  I  think,  must  have  something 
that  is  all  our  own.  I  hope  you  like  people, 
period.  If  you  do,  you  get  that  from  your 
father.  He  loves  people,  gets  along  with 
people.  So  will  you,  of  this  I'm  sure.  You 
like  people  now.  As  long  as  someone  is  in 
the  room  with  you,  you  lie  there,  murmur- 
ing happily.  As  for  myself,  I  like  to  be 
around  my  family,  but  am  inclined  to  feel 
uncomfortable    with    strangers. 

I  hope  you  love  music  and  books,  be- 
cause they  are  the  faithful  things.  And 
they  are  the  things  you  can  share.  It's  a 
little  early  to  know  whether  you'll  like 
books,  but  you  seem  to  love  music  now. 
I  make  children's  records — it  only  takes 
a  few  daytime  hours  a  year.  I  tell  stories 
and  sing  nursery  rhymes,  some  of  which 
I  now  sing  to  you. 

I  hope  you  will  see  the  ■world  you  live 
in  and  are  able  to  appreciate  what  you 
see,  and  to  understand  it. 

I  hope,  in  short — for  this  says  it  all — 
that  you  will  always  be  happy.  I  hope  you 
will  have  as  good  a  time  and  as  good  a 
life  as  I  have.  I  hope  you  will  always  be 
as  rosy  with  health  and  as  cozy  and  snug 
as  you  look  now.  And  as  peaceful. 

This  above  all,  I  hope  that  you  will  grow 
up  in  a  world  at  peace. 


invest  in  your  future — buy 

U.  S.  SAVINGS  BONDS 

join  the  payroll-saving  plan 


Be  Your  Own 
MUSIC  Teacher 

PLAY  ANY  INSTRUMENT 

LEARN  AT  HOME  THIS  OUICK  MONEY-SAVING  WAY 

Simple  as  A-B-C.  Your  lessons  consist  of  real  selections, 
instead  of  tiresome  exercises.  You  read  real  notes— no 
■numbers'"  or  trick  music.  Some  of  our  900.000  students 
are  band  LEADERS.  Everything  is  in  print  and  pictures. 
t  irst  you  are  told  what  to  do.  Then  a  picture  shows  you 
how.  Then  you  play  it  yourself  and  hear  how  it  sounds, 
boon  you   are  playing:  your  favorite  music. 

STOP  CHEATING  YOURSELF  OF  THESE  JOYS! 

Popularity!  New  friends.  Gay  parties.  Good  times. 
Career.  Extra  Money.  Understand,  appreciate  and  converse 
about  music.  Learn  lives  and  compositions  of  modem  and 
great  masters  .  .  .  Relax!  Banish  worries  and  frustrations. 
Satisfy  self-expression,   creative  urge.   Gain  self-confidence. 

Mail  coupon  for  Free  36-page  illus- 
trated book.  Mention  vour  favorite  in- 
strument. U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC, 
Studio  A2012,  Port  Washington,  New  York 

I  U.    S.    SCHOOL   OF   MUSIC,    Studio   A20i2. 

I  Port    Washington.    N.    Y. 

I  Please   send   me   your  FREE   36-page   Illustrated   book. 

I  I   would   like  to   play    (Name   Instrument). 

I,     ^            ^                                             Have  you 
Instrument Instrument? 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


(Print  Name) 


I    Address.. 
L 


Guaranteed  Discovery  Gives   You 

PerfectFingernailsofanyLength 


In  Minutes 


Now — it's  easy  to  transform  broken, 
split  or  bitten  nails,  almost  mag- 
ically, into  the  long,  glamorous, 
beautiful  nails  you've  always  longed  for.  Not  artificial  nails 
that  you  paste  on — not  a  polish:  "Beauti-Nail"  is  actually  a 
scientific  compound  of  liquid  and  powdered  plastic.  Builds 
and  duplicates  your  own  nails  and  adds  uniform  length  to 
them.  Permanent,  too— stays  on  so  long  it  actually  grows 
with  your  own  nail  and  it's  so  hard  that  nail  biting  does 
not  damage  it.  Withstands  typing  and  it  does  not  come  off 
even  in  hot,  soapy  water.  Files  and  polishes  beautifully,  too. 

Satisfaction  Guaranteed  or  Money  Back 

"Beauti-Nail"  is  a  complete,  professional  type  kit,  enough 
for  many,  many  treatments.  It's  easy— just  brush  it  on  over 
your  own  nail,  then  out  to  the  desired  length.  It's  as  sim- 
ple and  fast  as  putting  on  nail  polish.  Comes  with  special 
guides  to  help  direct  brush  strokes.  Beauty  salon  treatments 
cost  $16.50.  Do  it  yourself  for  only  a  few  pennies.  Price 
only  S3. 00  plus  3(5c  Federal  Tax.  We  pay  postage.  No 
C.O.O.'s   please. 


DOBBS  PRODUCTS  CO..    oe^  JT^ 


900  West  Lake  Street 
cage  7,   III. 


PERMANENT  DARKENER^ 

FOR  LASHES  AND  BROWS 

SWIMPROOF!  One  application  lasts 
4  to  5  weeks!  Our  22nd  year. 


$1.00  (plus  tax)  at  leading  drug, 
dept.  and  variety  chain  stores 


Wi 


Send  TODAY 
for  TRIAL  SIZE! 


J  "DARK-EYES"  COMPANY,  Depl.  p.l25  ' 

I  3319  >V.  Carroll  Ave.,  Chicago  24,  III.  | 

I  I  enclose  2S«  (coin  or  slamps-tax  mcluded)  lor  TRIAL  SIZE  | 

■  PACKAGE  of  "Dork-Eyes"  wilh  direclions.  m 
_                      check  shade:  G  Black  Q  Brown  ! 

■  Nome. g 

I  Address 


-    I 


93 


r    Want  to  Get  Rid  of 
I  Dark  or  Discolored  Skin, 
freckles,  Skin 


Spots?] 


ILighlensdark 
skin  and  ugljr 
spots  almost 
overn \gh\. 


Famous  Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
7  NIGHT  PLAN  Lightens, 
Beautifies  Skin  While  You  Sleep 

Just  follow  the  amazing  Mercolized  Wax 
Cream  7  NIGHT  PLAN  to  a  whiter,  softer, 
lovelier  skin.  Smooth  rich,  luxurious  Mer- 
colized Wax  Cream  on  your  face  or  arms 
just  before  reti  ring-  each  night  for  one  week. 
You'll  begin  to  see  results  almost 
at  once  .  .  .  lightens  dark  skin, 
blotches,  spots,  freckles  as  if  by 
magic!  This  is  not  a  cover  up  cos- 
metic; Mercolized  Wax  Cream 
works  UNDER  the  skin  surface. 
Beautiful  women  have  used  this 
time -tested  plan  for  over  40  years  —  you'll 
love  it's  fast .  sure,  longer  lasting  resultsl 
Mercolized  Wax  Cream  is  sold  on  100%  guar- 
antee or  monev  Dack.  Start  using  it  now! 
MERCOLIZED  WAX  CREAM 

At  All  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Counters 


HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY! 

I  am  going  to  show  you  a  simple  plan  by  which  you  can 
pick  up  enough  extra  money  every  week  to  help  you  pay  for 
extra  nylons,  blouses,  and  all  the  other  accessories  that 
niiike  a  girl's  life  happier.  Just  send  me  your  name  and 
address  for  FREE  information  on  how  to  make  money  tak- 
ing magazine  subscription  orders.  No  obligation.  J.  Rick- 
ard.  Dept.  TLB,  Macfadden  Publications,  205  East  42  St., 
New  York  17.  N.  Y. 


£or\ 


i  No  classes  to  attend.  Easy  spare-time  train- 
I  \  ing  covers  big  choice  of  subjects.  Friendly 
K  \  instructors;  standard  texts.  Full  credit  foi 
I  \  previous  schooling.     Diploma  awarded 
I   I  Write  now  for  FREE  catalog! 

WAYNE    SCHOOL  Catalog  HH-30 
f  2527  Sheffield  Ave.,  Chicago  14,  Illinois 


0^^^  mO 


PICTURES    OF 
MOVIE    &    TV    STARS 


Sensational    Collection    Of 
Scenes,     Pictures,     Photos,     Etc. 
rnrr  One   Exciting   Scene  from 
•  ntC  0  Latest  Production, 

You'll   be  thrilled  with  this 
Slor-Sludded   Package.   Send   2Sc   to 
LUCKY    STARS,    Dept.T.3 

G.P.O.     Box    738,     New    York    1,     N.    Y. 


4f^//S 


i/f^^- .: 


'^a^e^ 


NU-NAILS 

ARTIFICIAL  FINGERNAILS 

Cover  short,  broken,  thin  nails 
with  NU-NAILS.  Applied  in  a  jiffy 
with  our  amazing  new  quick-dry- 
ing glue  Can  be  worn  any  leng-th 
. . .  polished  any  shade.  Help  over- 
come nail-biting  habit.  Setof ten 
29c.  At  dime,  drug  &  dept.  stores. 

NU-NAILS  CO.,  Dept.  1  6-S 

5251  W.  Harrison,  Chicago  44 
Also  Hollywood  Fingernails . . . 
Permanent  Dubonett  Rose  Color. 
Mo  polish  required ...  39c  set. 


""'S\'S^  PSORIASIS 

(SCALY    SKIN    TROUBLE) 


^DeRmoiL 


SEE  FOR  YOURSELF 
no  matter  how  long  you 
have  suffered.  Write  for 
,  FREE  book  on  Psoriasis 
,  and  DERMOIL  with 
,  actual  "before — alter" 
I  photo  record  ol  results. 


\  generous 
Atrial 

SIZE 


94 


Don't  be  embarrassed 

with  Psoriasis,  the  usiy, 

scaiy   sitin   disease.    Try 

non.stalninc    DERMOIL. 

ArnaxiriK  rc^HuItH  reported 

for  over  22  years  I  Many 

KrutcFul    UHcrH    report   the ' 

Hcaly  red  patclieH  on  body 

or  Kcalp  itradually  dlnappcarcd  and  they~ 

a<{aln  enjoyed  the  thrill  of  a  emooth  clear  ekln.  DERMOIL 

formula  Ih  u."Cd    by    many  doctors.    Mu8t  give  definite 

benctltor  your  money  back.  Make  our  famous  "One  Spot 

TcHfl  SEND   10c  for  trial  bottle.   DERMOIL  sold  at 

I.lKKCtt  and  Walgreen  and   other   leading   Drug  Stores. 

Write  today  LAKE  LABORATORIES  Dept.  1404 

Box     J92B     ttralhmoor      Station,      Detroit     27.      MIclu 


Straight  from  the  Heart 


{Continued,  from  page  43) 
felt  she  was  cured  and  had  nothing  to  be 
ashamed    of.      Before    the    inter vie\\,    she 
told   Coates  that  her  neighbors   all  knew 
her  story  anyway. 

But  Confidential  File  has  a  responsi- 
bility when  dealing  with  emotionally-dis- 
turbed people.  The  woman  had  children. 
Before  the  show  started,  it  was  pointed 
out  to  her  that  they  would  have  to  bear 
the  shame  if  her  face  were  seen.  So,  in 
telling  her  story  of  attempted  suicide,  she 
agreed    to    wear   the   mask. 

The  shocking  story  of  the  woman  with 
suicidal  tendencies  was  only  one  in  the 
Confidential  File  series  of  Guild  Films' 
new,  nationally-syndicated  show.  Because 
of  its  basic  approach  to  contemporary 
problems,  Confidential  File  will  undoubt- 
edly arouse  more  comment  than  almost 
any  other  new  show  this  season. 

Confidential  File  is  co-written  by  Paul 
Coates  and  Jim  Peck,  two  Los  Angeles 
Mirror-News  newspapermen.  Coates,  the 
interviewer  on  File,  is  described  by  Peck 
as  "surprised  that  he  (Coates)  is  a  TV  per- 
sonality." 

On-camera,  interviewer  Coates  is  suave, 
looks  older  than  his  thirty-four  years, 
dresses  well,  and  is  careful  about  his  ap- 
pearance. There  are  two  reactions  to  his 
sphinx-like  visage  on-camera:  Some  of 
his  viewers  see  him  as  cold,  bold  and  ar- 
rogant— and  some  think  him  handsome. 

There  are  two  explanations  for  Paul 
Coates'  video  personality:  He  is,  accord- 
ing to  his  close  friend,  Jim  Peck,  a  basi- 
cally shy  person.  "Once  you  get  to  know 
Paul,"  says  Peck,  "he  is  warm  and  out- 
going." The  second  reason  stems  from  the 
nature  of  Confidential  File.  As  an  in- 
terviewer, Paul  can't  give  advice  to  the 
people  on  his  show,  he  can't  solve  their 
problems,  he  is  no  authority — he  is  simply 
an  uncritical  observer.  Hence,  the  sphinx- 
like face. 

"I  promised  that,  in  doing  File,"  says 
Paul,  "I  would  never  have  the  right  at  any 
time  to  be  the  authority.  I  don't  attempt 
to  give  advice,  even  in  areas  where  I  know 
good  and  well  what  I'm  talking  about.  I'm 
strictly  a  reporter." 

Confidential  File  is  the  brainchild  of  re- 
porter Paul  Coates  and  a  marriage  of  two 
ideas.  The  iirst  occurred  three  years  ago 
when,  after  he  and  Jim  Peck  successfully 
wrote  a  pair  of  Dragnet  scripts,  they 
figured  that,  if  they  could  do  it  for  Dragnet, 
they  could  do  it  for  themselves.  The 
second  idea  stemmed  from  Paul's  feeling 
that  the  people  who  came  to  life  in  his 
own  Los  Angeles  Mirror-News  column, 
"Confidential  File,"  would  make  for  pow- 
erful visual  drama. 

"As  a  reporter,"  says  Paul,  "I  daily  met 
people  that  most  TV  viewers  would  never 
meet — drug  addicts,  petty  criminals,  juve- 
nile delinquents,  and  the  like.  I  hoped 
that,  if  I  brought  them  and  their  problems 
to  television,  it  might  stimulate  a  deeper 
understanding,  it  would  tend  to  broaden 
the  acceptance  of  people  for  other  people, 
it  would  break  down  barriers." 

And  Jim  Peck  continues,  "Confidential 
File  was  designed  simply  to  make  people 
aware  of  the  differences  as  well  as  the 
similarities  of  people  in  other  walks  of 
life,  and  to  take  them  to  places  where 
they  would  never  go  otherwise.  The  show 
on  Buddhism  is  an  example.  It  certainly 
was  not  designed  to  promote  Buddhism, 
but  simply  to  point  out  the  similarity  in 
men  of  good  will,  whether  they  wear  skull 
caps  or  Oriental  headdress." 

Confidential  File  has  been  accused  of 
sensationalism.  This  is  not  surprising,  in- 
asmuch as  the  program  has  covered  such 


taboo  areas  as  the  sexual  psychopath  and 
homosexuals,  with  "live"  subjects  as  in- 
terviewees. But,  in  talking  with  Coates 
and  Peck,  one  is  forced  to  defer  to  their 
honest  approach  with  the  program. 

"I  think  that  we  have  taken  some  se- 
rious chances  in  television,"  Paul  says. 
"For  example,  the  way  we  discussed  child 
molesters  and  homosexuals.  We  were  told 
by  the  higher-ups  in  TV  that  we  would 
be  through  if  we  did  these  programs.  Yet 
Confidential  File  has  given  us  a  real  re- 
spect for  the  viewing  audience.  The  pro- 
grams which  we  were  told  were  the  most 
fearful  and  impossible  to  do  were  the 
ones  that  got  the  best  public  reaction. 

"Our  reaction  to  this  is  a  sincerely  in- 
creased respect  for  the  ability  of  the  pub- 
lic to  integrate  the  truth.  We  think  they 
are  interested  in  hearing  the  truth.  We 
believe  that  the  public  not  only  wants  to 
hear  the  truth,  but  can  handle  it.  We  think 
Confidential  File  has  brought  about  a  num- 
ber of  fairly  important  ckanges  in  the 
public's  attitude  toward  certain  severe 
social  problems. 

"One  particular  show  had  to  do  with 
sex  education,"  Paul  continues.  "Now  the 
fact  that  we  intended  to  use  the  scientific 
words  for  the  genitals  was  shocking  to  a 
friend  of  mine  who  is  rather  highly  placed 
in  the  television  industry.  He  told  us  we 
would  be  taken  off  TV  if  we  used  such 
descriptions  on  a  program  to  which  chil- 
dren were  invited  to  listen. 

"And  yet  it  seemed  important  to  Jim 
Peck  and  me,  because  the  semantic  im- 
plications in  sex  education  are  critical.  If 
a  child  thinks  about  himself  in  four-letter 
words,  then  he  has  a  sordid  idea  of  what 
he  represents.  He  is  likely  to  feel  guilty 
about  it.  But  if  he  is  given  the  proper 
words  and  a  good  scientific  explanation, 
then  we  say  the  child  is  getting  a  good 
sex  education.  He  is  going  to  grow  up 
as  an  adult  who  is  not  only  highly  ac- 
ceptable in  the  way  he  acts  out  his  sexual 
impulses  in  marriage,  but  does  so  happily. 
This  happy  adjustment  we  consider  to  be 
of  prime  importance." 

In  terms  of  the  contribution  to  mental 
health,  and  in  spite  of  the  accusation  of 
sensationalism,  Paul  Coates  and  Confi- 
dential File  are  getting  a  great  amoxmt  of 
recognition  for  the  constructive  work  the 
show  is  doing.  On  September  8,  1955,  the 
Volunteers  of  Psychiatry  of  the  Los  An- 
geles General  Hospital,  one  thousand 
strong,  presented  Paul  with  an  award  for 
the  outstanding  contribution  to  mental 
health  in  the  past  year.  Speakers  included 
Dr.  Rappaport,  State  Director  of  Mental 
Hygiene;  Dr.  Tarzan,  President  of  South- 
ern California  Psychiatric  Association;  the 
president  of  the  Los  Angeles  County  Med- 
ical Association;  and  a  representative  from 
the  Attorney  General's  office.  This  was  the 
first  time  in  the  history  of  these  joint 
mental  health  organizations  that  anything 
like  this  had  been  done. 

This  and  other  awards  Paul  has  re- 
ceived certainly  seem  appropriate,  partic- 
ularly when  one  understands  the  scrupu- 
lous detail  that  Paul  puts  into  the  research 
on  every  Confidential  File.  There  are 
fifteen  people  on  the  staff,  not  counting  the 
crew  of  twenty-seven  technicians  and 
cameramen.  When  suicide  was  discussed 
as  a  possible  subject  for  File,  Paul  went 
first  to  Dr.  James  McGinnis,  Chief  Psychi- 
atrist of  the  Los  Angeles  County  General 
Hospital.  "In  the  field  of  mental  health," 
says  Paul,  "Dr.  McGinnis  is  the  one  we 
go  to  first.  He  puts  us  in  touch  with  the 
various  leaders  in  the  field. 

"In  the  case  of  suicide,  we  worked  with 
the  Menninger  Clinic,  plus  various  other 


theorists,  leading  doctors  in  the  city,  in- 
terns at  the  receiving  hospitals,  and  am- 
bulance drivers — the  very  first  people  to 
see  attempted  suicides — and  finally  got  the 
reactions  of  the  people  themselves  who 
had  tried  in  one  way  or  another  to  take 
i    their  own  lives." 

L  The  detailed  research  Paul  puts  into 
I  each  Confidential  File  is  obvious.  "For  ex- 
'  ample,"  he  says,  "we  learned  from  the 
doctors  and  theorists  some  of  the  reasons 
why  people  attempt  suicide — even  un- 
knowingly. The  ambulance  drivers  we  in- 
terviewed substantiated  this  point.  They 
said  it  was  surprising  to  them  how  many 
repeats  they  attended  for  accidental  in- 
jury. Ambulance  drivers,  men  without 
medical  or  psychiatric  knowledge,  realized 
these  victims  %vere  unconsciously  trying 
to  hurt  themselves. 

"The  doctors  and  interns  told  us  the 
same  story.  They  cited  one  bit  of  re- 
search which  indicated  that  fifty  percent 
of  all  the  accidents  in  a  manufacturing 
plant  were  committed  by  only  seven  per- 
cent of  the  workers. 

"In  actual  suicide  attempts,  we  were 
surprised  to  see  so  much  anger  on  the 
faces  of  the  recovered  victims.  After  their 
stomachs  had  been  pumped  and  they 
regained  consciousness,  their  most  com- 
mon remark  was  an  angry,  'Why  didn't 
you  let  me  die!'  These  people  are  ob- 
viously sick.  They  need  qualified  psy- 
chiatric help." 

P  aul  recognizes  the  responsibility  that 
the  show  forces  upon  him.  In  the  actual 
TV  presentation  of  the  suicide  study,  he 
did  not  allow  the  "live"  subject  to  reveal 
her  identity  (even  though  she  was  willing) 
because  of  the  embarrassment  it  would 
have  caused  her  family. 

The  additional  responsibility  and  Paul's 
honest  approach  is  again  made  apparent 
in  the  Canfidential  File  he  did  on  blind 
children  in  the  Los  Angeles  area.  This 
episode  received  more  mail  than  any 
other  show  in  the  series. 

The  story  came  to  television  one  day 
shortly  after  Paul  heard  of  the  small,  in- 
dependent Foundation  for  the  Junior 
Blind,  dedicated  to  teaching  blind  chil- 
dren to  live  in  a  sighted  world.  The  foun- 
dation was  run  by  Norman  Kaplan  and 
his  ex-schoolteacher  wife.  Paul  investi- 
gated. He  found  the  charitable  counle 
working  on  the  slimmest  margin — Mr. 
Kaplan  went  out  every  day,  picking  up 
the  children  in  a  broken-down  station 
wagon.  Mrs.  Kaplan  prepared  a  cold  mid- 
day meal — there  was  no  stove.  When  the 
show  was  presented  to  the  Los  Angeles 
audience,  though  a  direct  appeal  was 
never  made,  $15,000  was  raised  for  their 
help.  The  money  went  into  a  trust  hind 
administered  by  a  bank. 

But  Paul's  interest  in  such  cases  does 
not  end  after  the  show.  "I  don't  mind 
telling  you,"  he  says  with  a  smile,  "that  we 
keep  checking  on  the  fund  ourselves.' 
After  extensive  checking,  Paul  foimd  the 
Foundation  strictly  deserving. 

Paul  Coates  was  born  34  years  ago  in 
New  York.  His  father  was  an  architect, 
his  mother  a  housewife.  They  lived  in 
the  Washington  Heights  section  of  Manhat- 
tan. "Although  it  wasn't  a  poor  neigh- 
borhood," Paul  recalls,  "in  those  days, 
as  now,  New  York  kids  lived  and  played 
on  the  streets.  I  remember  the  winters 
we  built  a  fire  in  the  gutter  and  roasted 
potatoes — and  if  we  didn't  eat  the  'Mickeys' 
we  threw  them. 

"When  I  was  a  youngster,  I  always  be- 
longed to  a  gang.  I  remember  gang  fights 
where  hundreds  of  kids  from  different 
neighborhoods  got  together  for  one  big 
brawl.  We  did  a  show  recently  on  kid 
gangs— or  'rat  packs'  as  they  are  called 
here    in   Southern   California,      f'm    sensi- 


BARGAINS -To  Get  New  Customers! 


Your  Choice  of  these   LOVELY  GIFTS 


Sentimental  WEDDING  RING 

Salt  &  Pepper  Set 

Complete    with 

Ring  Bearer's  Pillow 

An  endear ing  we^dinj^*  or 
anniversary  rememb  ance 
you'll  cherish  forever. 
This  beautiful,  imported 
ceramic  set  has  two  gleam- 
ing gold  color  rings  nes- 
tling in  a  charming  ivory 
ring  bearer's  pillow.  Each 
ring  is  removable:  one 
pours  salt,  the  other  pep- 
per. An  ideal  gift  for  that 
favorite  couple  or  relative. 
The  complete  set  is  available  plain  (without  personalization), 
for  onlv  50c.  However,  for  only  10c  extra,  we'll  artictically 
handletter    any    fiist    names    and    werlding    date    in    24K    e^-i'.d. 

Charming    "ROCKING"    PLANTER 

and 

ENCHANTING     IMPS 

Salt   &    Pepper   Set 

Complete   with 
FLORAL   DISPLAY 

These   devilishly    cute    and   col- 
orfully   decorated    Imps    ACTU- 
ALLY  ROCK  up  and   down.    Re- 
move them,  and  one  pours  salt, 
the     other     pepper.     Hand     dec- 
orated    imported    ceramic.     It's 
so     pretty     as     a    table    center- 
piece,   or  on  mantel,   end-table, 
or     shelf,     etc.     You'll     be     de- 
th   cute    Bucket   filled    with    lovelv 
2  flowers,    and    Bucket 
ALL    FOR    ONLY     50c. 


ONLY   50c 


complete 

ilated    flow  ers 
othei    purpose 


too. 


Adorable 

Swinging    Imp    Planter 

Complete  with  LOVELY 
FLORAL  DISPLAY 

This  bewitching  and  beau 

tifully  decorated,  enchant 

ing    Imp    sits   on    a    suing 

and    4.CTUALLY   ROCKS 

back  and  forth  on  the  rustic 

tree    trunk.    Richly    hand 

decorated   ceramic,   in   the 

legendary    colors    of    field 

and  forest.  The  twin  fo\e 

birds      attractively      adorn 

top  of  swing.  Adds,  a  ga\ 

note   to  your  mantel    end 

table,    etc.    You'll   cheush 

it   for   years.    Comes   com 

plete.     filled     with     lo\el^ 

multi-colored  simulated  flower;,.  AIJ.  FOR  OXL 

SATISFACTION  GUARANTEED  OR  MONEY 


Y   50*. 

BACK 


Order  us  many  of  these  wonderful  gifts  as  you  want 
at  these  low  prices.  Add  only  15c  to  EACH  GIFT 
ordered  for  postage  and  handling.  Send  check,  money 
order   or   cash.    No  C.O.B.'s   please. 

DOBBS  PRODUCTS  CO. 

900    West    Lake    Street,    Dept.    742,    ChicaBo    7,    III. 


'How' 
to. 


MAKE  MONEY  with^ 
Simple  CARTOONS 


book  everyone  who  likes  to  draw 
should  have.  It  is  free;  no 
obligation.  Simply  address 


FREE 
BOOK 


l/ARTOONISTS' 
Dept.  5912 


EXCHANGE 
Pleasant  Hill, 


Ohio 


mmsiM 


p.  0.  BOX  1185 


End    embarrassment,    prevent    soiled    sheets, 
^^    mattresses,  with    DRI-AL-NITE.  This  scien- 
"■     tific  preparation  is  SAFE,  HARMLESS,  for- 
mulated by  a  doctor,  prescribed  by  doctors. 
Complete  instructions  and  booklet  on  CAUSE 
/    of  bedwcHing  free  with  each  bottle  of  DRI- 
/      AL-NITE  Tablets.    Money    back    guarantee. 
$3.00  al  your  druggist  or  postpaid  from 

G\M.f%Xfilt<fA  LABORATOMBS  Inc. 

DELRAY  BEACH,  FLORIDA 


BLEG  SUFFERERS 
Why  continue  to  sufTer  without  attempt- 
ing to  do  something?  Write  today  for  New- 
Booklet — "THE  LIEPE  METHODS  FOR 
HOME  USE."  It  tells  about  Varlcoje 
Ulcers  and  Open  Leg  Sores.  Liepe  Methods 
tised  while  you  walk.  More  than  60  years  of 
success.  Praised  and  en- 
dorsed by  multitudes. 
LIEPE  METHODS,  3250  N.  Green  Bay  Ave.,! 
Dept  N-47.    Milwaukee   12,  Wisconsinl 


FREE 
BOOKLET 


TOWELStI 


Most  terrific  towel  value  In  U.  S.l  When  you  buy  10  OJ 
these  wonderful,  new,  full-size  towels  made  of  unwoven 
rayon  and  cotton  for  only  Sl.OO.  we'll  send  TEN  MORE 
for  5c-or  TWENTY  In  all  for  SI  .05!  Others  charge  $1.00 
for  FIVE  Towels!  But  order  TODAY  while  supply  lasts i 
Make  wonderful  gifts.  Money-back  guarantee. 
TOWEL  SHOP,  Dept.  541,    Box,  881,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


ijsn^i 


New  LOTION  Shampoo 

\    Made  FRESH  at  home  as  you  need  it! 

Brings  out  Shining  Radiant 

Cofor. . .  Washes  Hair 

Shades  Lighter  SAFELY! 


Now  without  tints,  rinses  or  ugly 
bleached  look  you  can  safely 
give  your  hair  the  sparkling 
shine  and  highlights  that  men  tove! 
illed  BLONDEX  this  fragrant  powder  needs  only 
water  added  to  become  a  soft  cleansing  lotion  sham- 
poo. Instantly  removes  dingy  film  that  makes  hair  dark 
and  old-looking,  brings  back  flattering  lightness  and 
lustre.  Absolutely  safe  — use  it  for  children's  delicate 
hair.  Get  BLONDEX  today  at  10;,  drug  and  dept.  stores. 


T<:?KEN  RHOTOS 


Luxurious,  silk  finish  Wallet 
Size . .  2  i/j  X  3  'A . .  STUDIO  Quality 
'Ql  ^  $4    MONEY  BACK 

^■«V  foi*      I      GUARANTEE 

Give  to  frisndt,  cloismatM,  relatives.    Uio  for 

college,    employment,    possporl   applicallorM. 

Send  Money  ond  Photo  to 

WALLET  PHOTOS,  BoxD26-125,  Hillside,  N.J. 


Personal  Photo  Christmas 
Cards,  including  enve- 
lopes, from  your  own 
negative. 

FREE  SAMPLE... 
send  snapshot  negative  for  free 
sample  Deluxe  Yulecard.  Include  6^ 
stamps  for  handling.  Negative  returned 
^^^  with  sample.  No-obligation.  Satisfaction 
guaranteed.  Write  today  YULECARDS,*  Dept.  23, 
Quincy  69,  Mass.      •!)]¥.  Mail-N-Sav«    'T.M.  Reg. 


MAKE  BIG  MONEY! 

Write  today  for  FREE  plan  which  shows  .you 
how  to  make  big  money  in  your  spare  time. 
All  you  do  is  help  us  take  orders  for  maga-  . 
zine  subscriptions.  No  experience  needed 
Send  name  and  address  today.  There  is  ao 
obligation. 

MACFADDEN   PUBLICATIONS 

205  East  42  St.,  N.  Y.  17.  N.  Y. 

LEARN    AT    HOME 

Practical  nurses  are  needed  in  every 
communitv  . . .  doctors  rely  on  them . . . 
patients  appreciate  their  cheerful,  ex- 
pert   care.    You    can    learn    practical 
nursing  at  home  In  spare  time.  Course 
endorsed  by  physicians.  56th  yr.  Earn 
while   learning.   High  School  not  re- 
quired.    Men,  women,    18  to  60.     Trial  plan.     Write  now  I 
CHICAGO   SCHOOL  OF    NURSING 
Dspt.  212,  25  East  Jackson  Blvd.,  Chicago  4,   III. 
Please  send  free  booklet  and  16  sample  lesson  pages. 

Kame 

CUv ^State. Age 

Why  Become  An 

OLD  WOMAN 

Before  Your  Time? 

Few  women,  especially  those  who  have  just 
had  their  first  child,  realize  the  devastating 
effect  rectal  trouble  can  have  on  nerves, 
vitality,  general  health.  Piles,  fissures,  asso- 
ciated disorders  often  begin  with  the  birth 
of  the  very  first  child.  Standing  on  your 
feet  too  long  and  other  strains  may  make 
the  condition  worse.  But — there  is  no  need 
to  let  this  "secret  pain"  rob  you  of  youth 
and   attractiveness.   Find   out   how   proper  T 

treatment   now  may   help   you   avoid   this  v 

cause  of  premature  aging — write,  today  for  . 

130-page     FREE     BOOK     to     McCLEARY  " 

CLINIC  and  HOSPITAL,  Dept.  1223  Elms 
Blvd.,  Excelsior  Springs  1,  Mo. 

95 


tive  to  that  term  because,  with  it,  some 
people  try  to  pin  all  our  juvenile  trouble 
on  one  racial  group — our  Mexican  chil- 
dren.    And  that's  a  lot  of  nonsense. 

'"When  I  was  a  kid  in  New  York  I  re- 
member Irish  kids  and  Jewish  kids  and 
Italian  kids,  and  they  were  every  bit  as 
bad  and  every  bit  as  good — as  children  of 
Mexican  ancestry  here  in  Los  Angeles. 
Juvenile  delinquency  doesn't  recognize 
false  racial  categories." 

Even  before  he  learned  to  read,  Paul  had 
earned  a  reputation  as  a  "story  teller." 
When  the  grade-school  teacher  asked, 
"And  what  did  you  do  on  your  summer 
vacation?"  Paul  was  always  the  first  one 
called  on.  As  soon  as  he  learned  to  read 
and  write  at  P.S.  115,  Paul  won  the  school's 
short  story  contest.  He  continued  winning 
these  contests  through  George  Washing- 
ton High  School.  Though  he  was  always 
interested  in  writing,  he  says  his  best  sub- 
ject was  civics. 

During  his  summers,  Paul  worked  at  odd 
jobs  to  make  money  for  college — as  an 
office  boy  in  a  publishing  firm,  as  a  coun- 
selor at  a  summer  camp  in  the  Adiron- 
dacks.  "By  then,  the  gang  had  become 
a  football  club — we  were  all  interested  in 
athletics.  The  kids  in  the  club  got  jobs  as 
instructors.  One  of  them  liked  tennis, 
so  he  became  the  camp's  tennis  coach.  I 
liked  horses,  so  I  became  the  riding  in- 
structor. The  tennis  coach  didn't  know 
a  thing  about  the  game,  and  I  didn't  know 
my  saddle  from  my  bridle.  But  we  didn't 
let  that  stand  in  the  way  of  our  summer 
jobs." 

Before  he  entered  the  Army  in  1943, 
Paul  went  to  Columbia  University,  study- 
ing radio  writing  with  Professor  Barnow. 
As  a  corporal  in  the  Army,  stationed  at  a 
reception  center,  he  wrote  for  the  post 
newspaper  and  did  "handout  copy"  for 
the  men  who  came  through  the  center. 
"You  know,"  Paul  says,  "Pvt.  Tom  Jones 
from  your  home  town  stuff." 

In  1945,  Paul  was  discharged  and  landed 
his  first  professional  writing  job  as  pub- 
licist for  New  York's  Dixie  Hotel.  From 
there  he  went  into  publicity  for  Station 
WTMJ,  the  Milwaukee  Journal  radio  sta- 
tion. After  a  year  and  a  half,  he  re- 
turned to  New  York  hotel  publicity. 

In  1946,  two  important  events  occurred. 
Paul  met  the  girl  who  was  to  be  his  wife; 
and  he  wrote  a  job-request  letter  to  the 
editor  of  the  country's  newest  large  daily 
newspaper — then  the  Los  Angeles  Mirror. 

Paul's  wife,  Renee,  was  a  dancer  at  the 
Copacabana  night  club  when  he  first  saw 
her.  On  their  first  date,  Paul  took  Renee 
for  a  ride  in  a  hansom  cab  around  Central 
Park.  "I  thought  that  was  very  romantic," 
he  says,  "but  Renee  felt  it  was  a  little  bit 
silly.  I  wasn't  used  to  hansom  cabs — I  got 
a  touch  of  motion  sickness.  It  didn't  turn 
out  well  at  all." 

However,  a  few  months  later,  Paul  and 
Renee  were  married.  Their  family  now 
boasts  three  children:  Joren,  12,  Renee's 
daughter  by  a  previous  marriage;  Kevin, 
8,  and  Timmie,  7.  "In  the  hospital  waiting 
room,"  says  Paul,  "I'm  a  floor  pacer  and 
a  chain  smoker.  My  first  reaction  when 
I  saw  Kevin  was  to  count  his  fingers  and 
toes.  I  did  it  three  times  before  I  was 
sure  there  were  twenty!  I  was  fully 
amazed  that  I  could  have  a  child  with  a 
normal  complement  of  fingers  and  toes. 
My  thought  at  the  time  was,  'Look  how 
wonderful  Mother  Nature  is.' " 

Paul  enjoyed  New  York  hotel  publicity, 

but  his  main  ambition  was  to  break  into 

a  big  city  newspaper  as  a  columnist.     His 

letter   to    the    editor   of   the    Los   Angeles 

T      Mirror    carried    these    hopes.      "I    knew    I 

V      couldn't  sell  him  on  the  idea  of  my  being 

•      a  general  columnist,"  he  says,  "because  the 

Mirror  didn't  know  me  from  Mayor  La- 

96  ^""'^•"- 


'So  1  tried  to  sell  the  editor  a  'Dining 
Around  Town'  column  idea.  But  he  wasn't 
interested.  He  wrote  back  saying  there 
weren't  enough  restaurants  in  town  to 
warrant  such  a  column.  I  knew  he  was 
either  wrong  or  being  kind." 

A  week  later  the  phone  rang,  the  editor 
had  changed  his  mind  and  wanted  Paul 
to  submit  a  couple  of  pages  of  copy.  He 
did  and  was  hired.  "My  purpose,"  says 
Paul,  "was  never  to  be  a  gourmet.  I 
wanted  to  show  the  paper  I  could  write. 
As  soon  as  possible,  I  wanted  to  do  a  gen- 
eral reporting  column." 

Paul  got  the  kind  of  column  he  wanted 
in  a  matter  of  weeks — after  he  wrote  a 
column  attacking  home  cooking.  He  ex- 
plains, "I  thought  that  we  had  a  natural 
tendency  to  make  too  much  of  home  cook- 
ing and  apple  pie."  Many  of  his  readers 
wrote  in,  disagreeing  with  him.  Paul 
offered  to  prove  his  point  by  accepting 
invitations  to  dinner  at  the  home  of  any 
of  his  readers  who  cared  to  invite  him. 
Three  hundred  and  fifty  did!  He  spent 
the  next  three  months  dining  in  homes 
around  Los  Angeles  County.  "I  forget  the 
exact  number,"  he  says,  "but  I  had  some 
marvelous  meals  in  those  days." 

The  escapade  received  wide  attention 
in  the  nation's  press,  and  Paul's  column 
became  one  of  the  best- known  features  in 
the     Los  Angeles  Mirror-News.     His  edi- 


THAT  NELSON  FAMILY 

Everybody  knows  Ozzie  and  Harriet, 
David  and  Ricky,  through  their  TV  ad- 
ventures. But  you've  met  more  of  their 
relatives  than  you  realize!  The  whole 
story  will  be  out,  in  all  its  true-to-life 
colors,  in  the 

January 
TV  RADIO  MIRROR 

Get  your  copy  December  6! 


tors  took  note,  too.  Within  weeks,  Paul 
had  stopped  writing  about  food  alto- 
gether, devoting  his  column  to  the  "hu- 
man element." 

Paul's  first  radio  show  on  local  Station 
KFI  was  called  Sunday  Feature  Page  and 
was  not  too  unlike  Confidential  File.  "I 
tried,"  he  recalls,  "to  give  my  audience 
the  voices  of  the  little  people  who  made 
the  stories.  I  thought  it  was  a  good 
show.     It  only  lasted  six  weeks." 

His  next  attempt  was  a  news  show  on 
ABC-TV.  "Television  petrified  me,"  Paul 
confesses.  "So  I  made  a  deal  with  ABC — 
they  would  show  the  news  pictures  as  I 
read  the  copy,  but  I  was  never  to  be  seen. 
I'm  probably  the  only  man  in  TV  who 
made  his  debut  without  having  to  face  a 
camera." 

In  1950,  Paul  gathered  together  enough 
courage  to  face  the  cameras  on  a  local 
comedy-panel  show  called  Bachelor's 
Haven.  Haven  was  produced  by  CBS- 
TV's  Bill  Brennan,  a  fan  of  Paul's  column. 
"I'm  looking  for  someone  with  an  off-beat 
sense  of  humor,"  he  told  Paul,  "how  about 
it?"  Paul  accepted.  "There  were  two  reg- 
ular panelists,"  he  says,  "Zsa  Zsa  Gabor 
and  me,  and  two  guests.  We  were  paid 
thirty  dollars  a  week.  That  was  one  of  the 
funniest  parts  of  the  show." 

In  1953,  after  Bachelor's  Haven,  Paul 
began  producing  Confidential  File.  It  was 
an  immediate  success  in  the  Los  Angeles 
area.  "Overnight,"  Paul  recalls,  "every- 
body was  talking  about  Confidential  File. 


All  of  a  sudden,  we  were  stars.  Every- 
body was  saying  what  a  great  show  we 
had,  and  what  a  great  community  service 
we  were  doing,  and  we  were  sure  to  make 
a  million  dollars!  I  was  so  proud  of  my- 
self that  I  was  beginning  to  feel  like  a 
big-shot.  Then  came  the  day  of  reckon- 
ing. We  did  the  show  for  very  little 
money — and  one  day  we  were  locked  out 
of  our  rented  cutting  room  because  we 
owed  about  eighty  dollars.  Some  big- 
shot." 

Paul's  schedule  today  is  very  much  like 
what  it  was  in  1947,  when  he  first  joined 
the  Los  Angeles  Mirror.  At  10  A.M.,  the 
first  calls  begin  coming  into  his  new  Bur- 
bank  home.  Paul  lives  in  Burbank,  near 
the  San  Fernando  Valley,  for  two  rea- 
sons: "One,"  he  says,  "is  because  I  like 
living  close  to  the  bridle  path.  I  enjoy 
riding  in  my  spare  time.  We  have  three 
horses,  and  the  house  is  right  on  the 
bridle  path;  and,  two,  I  have  never  been 
attached  to  the  idea  of  living  in  Beverly 
Hills.  To  me,  it  is  like  owning  a  Cadil- 
lac.    We  live  in  Burbank." 

Paul  works  at  home  until  noon,  when 
he  leaves  for  the  Confidential  File  office 
in  Hollywood.  He  continues  working  there 
for  two  hours,  then  goes  downtown  to  the 
Mirror-News,  where  he  writes  his  daily 
column. 

Paul  relies  a  great  deal  on  phoned-in 
"tips"  for  many  of  his  stories.  "Once,"  he 
says,  "a  suicide  called  to  tell  me  he  was 
going  to  jump  off  his  roof  if  I  didn't  come 
talk  to  him.  He  said  he'd  jump  for  sure  if 
I  called  the  police.  He  sounded  drunk,  but 
legitimate,  so  I  raced  over  to  his  8th  Street 
hotel.  About  two  blocks  away,  I  heard 
sirens  and  I  thought  to  myself,  'Somebody 
did  call  the  police  and  the  poor  guy  has 
jumped.'  But,  when  I  got  to  the  roped- 
off  section  of  the  street,  he  was  still  sit- 
ting on  the  edge  of  the  roof,  alone.  I  ran 
through  the  crowd  and  up  to  the  roof.  He 
recognized  me  and  was  sore  as  blazes, 
blaming  me  for  calling  the  police  and 
causing  the  commotion.  It  was  a  terrible 
experience  for  me.  My  knees  were  buckling 
for  a  half-hour  while  I  tried  to  convince 
him  not  to  jump — that  somebody  else  had 
seen  him  up  there  and  called  the  police.  It 
was  the  first  time  in  my  life  that  I  had 
ever  felt  responsible  for  saving  a  living 
soul^ — or  seeing  him  die  in  front  of  my  eyes. 
Finally,  after  thirty  minutes  of  conversa- 
tion, an  officer  came  out  of  the  darkened 
fire  escape,  and  knocked  him  to  safety. 
After  it  was  over,  I  was  almost  too  ner- 
vous to  write  it  up  in  my  column." 

In  preparing  his  column,  Paul  looks  for 
the  little  human-interest  stories  that  gen- 
erally never  make  the  papers.  When  he  has 
free  time,  he  drives  around  at  night,  cov- 
ering the  police  calls.  "The  little  family 
fights,"  he  says,  "the  'keep-the-peace'  calls 
— these  are  the  unimportant  things,  yet 
with  great  humor  and  great  tragedy  which 
give  the  city  color.  That's  what  I  like.  I 
know  it  sounds  corny,  but  it  is  something 
I  enjoy  doing.  I  can  write  it." 

It  is  from  this  city  color  that  Confidential 
File  was  born.  Rainbow-like,  File  explores 
the  entire  range  of  human  interests  and 
emotions.  It  has  been  put  together  with  a 
scrupulous  detailed  search  for  the  unemo- 
tional fact,  with  a  reporter's  objectivity 
and  passion  for  the  truth.  As  a  result,  in 
Los  Angeles  in  1955,  it  was  awarded  two 
of  TV's  coveted  Emmys — the  first  to  Paul 
Coates  as  the  year's  outstanding  male  per- 
sonality, and  the  second  to  Confidential 
File,  voted  the  leading  cultural-educational 
show. 

The  fact  that  the  show  is  now  distributed 
nationally  has  not  changed  Paul  Coates' 
original  aims:  To  broaden  people's  accept- 
ance of  one  another  ...  to  break  down 
barriers  ...  to  point  out  the  similarities 
in  all  men  of  good  will  everywhere. 


,<5]^,ji-vr'^><i>^    t,  ^     -X 


J^  V.   u     ^     u  ^^4# 


(sJOeauitful    cJlai 

E 


C 


K 


The 

JOHN        H 
NEW  Y 


THERE  ARE  THREE  BRECK  SHAMPOOS 
FOR    THREE    DIFFERENT   HAIR    CONDITIONS 

Each  one  of  the  Three  Breck  Shampoos  is  made  for  a  different 
hair  condition.  One  Breck  Shampoo  is  for  dry  hair.  Another 
Breck  Shampoo  is  for  oily  hair.  A  third  Breck  Shampoo 
is  for  normal  hair.  The  Breck  Shampoo  for  your  individual 
hair  condition  leaves  your  hair  clean,  lustrous  and  fragrant. 
You  will  enjoy  using  a  Breck  Shampoo  because  it  is  mild 
and  gentle  in  action  and  not  drying  to  the  hair.  A  Breck 
Shampoo  helps  bring  out  the  soft,  natural  beauty  of  your  hair. 

Three  Breck  Shampoos  are  available  at  Beauty  Shops,  Drug  Stores,  Department  Stores  and  wherever  cosmetics  are  sold. 

INC 


I 


BRECK 
O    R    K 


MANUFACTURING        CHEMISTS  •  SPRINGFIELD        J         MASSACHUSETTS 

CHICAGO  •  SAN  FRANCISCO  •  OTTAWA  CANADA 

Copyright  1955  by  John  H.  Breck  Inc. 


9] '  r 


^PfieAoyf 


r\< 


\%-'  Ifl 


n^^ 


^o^^ 


StAO 


HS^^ 


"****««t^ 


irGGETT  t  MYERS  TOBACCO  CC^ 


.^yty^J         <  i««  ^'' J.'l^!"  ,Mi|^ 


1«; 


$^  LrGGETT  &  Myers  Tobacco  Co.; 


t 


IMP 


